IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X
KANSAS, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 00-957
MICHAEL T. CRANE. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X
Courtroom 20
333 Constitution Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 30, 2001
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at
10:59 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CARLA J. STOVALL, ESQ., Kansas Attorney General; Topeka,
Kansas; on behalf of the Petitioner.
JOHN C. DONHAM, ESQ., Olathe, Kansas; on behalf of the
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CARLA J. STOVALL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
JOHN C. DONHAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 31
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:59 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument
next in No. 00-957, Kansas v. Michael Crane.
General Stovall.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARLA J. STOVALL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. STOVALL: Mr. Chief Justice, thank you, and
may it please the Court:
The Kansas Supreme Court has erroneously read
this Court's decision in Kansas v. Hendricks as requiring
a showing that a potentially sexually violent predator
cannot control his behavior and that such a requirement
has supplemented the two requisites for civil commitment
that this Court has approved in and since the Addington
case. Those two requirements, as you know, are mental
illness and dangerousness.
The volitional impairment that the Kansas
Supreme Court has ruled was constitutionally required for
civil commitment ignores the fact that psychological
disorders, such as antisocial personality, can impair an
individual in behavior, cognitive, perceptual, emotional,
and even intellectual capacities.
This Court has never indicated that there's
anything constitutionally significant about a volitional
impairment.
QUESTION: There was a good deal of reference in
our Hendricks opinion to the -- to the apparent fact that
the person there had what was volitionally impaired.
You're saying that was descriptive rather than essential
to the holding?
MS. STOVALL: I'm saying it was descriptive.
Mr. Hendricks had apparently, and according to himself
only, an inability to control his own behavior. So, when
the majority wrote about Mr. Hendricks, they used that
kind of a description.
QUESTION: Well, but we also relied on prior
authority that made some reference to lack of control.
don't think that what was done by the court below was
totally off the wall in light of what was said in our
prior cases. What if there is some element but perhaps
not to that extent? How would you draw the line?
MS. STOVALL: Well, if this Court says that
there needs to be some volitional impairment displayed, we
would suggest that it just be merely some impairment. To
have a total impairment is something that the
psychiatrists will even tell us is an impossible standard
to show.
QUESTION: You think that's the standard adopted
in the court below that we're reviewing?
MS. STOVALL: I do.
QUESTION: Total impairment?
MS. STOVALL: I do.
QUESTION: Do you acknowledge that lack of
ability to control one's unlawful conduct and volitional
impairment are one and the same thing?
MS. STOVALL: No, I do not.
QUESTION: Suppose I'm delusional and -- and I
think that -- that people I see are Satan. I'm fully able
to control myself and -- and do not attack people who are
not Satan, but I think that some people are Satan.
MS. STOVALL: Your Honor, that's --
QUESTION: Do you call that a lack of volitional
control or delusion?
MS. STOVALL: I would consider that delusional
and not a -- a lack of volitional control. And the
problem with the Kansas Supreme Court's decision is that
it says the only thing that we consider is volitional
impairment, but there are many kinds of impairments
individuals have that are the result of their mental
disorder, and so the Kansas court is necessarily limiting
the psychiatric diagnosis to say only volitional
impairment --
QUESTION: What is there -- I thought there
could be cognitive impairments. I think Justice Scalia
has described one. There could be emotional impairments.
MS. STOVALL: Yes, sir.
QUESTION: And there could be volitional
impairments. Now, is there any other category?
MS. STOVALL: Perceptual, intellectual. There
-- there are many kinds that are talked about within the
psychiatric material.
QUESTION: But are these --
QUESTION: Is there any kind relevant here other
than volition?
MS. STOVALL: Yes. I think they all are, all of
those that we mentioned, and perhaps even those --
QUESTION: Are relevant in this case?
MS. STOVALL: Not -- yes.
QUESTION: I'm saying is there any one relevant
to the particular individual at issue here other than
volition.
MS. STOVALL: I don't believe psychiatrists can
tell us what it is that -- what kind of impairment Mr.
Crane has. They're not -- the -- the literature will say
that psychiatrists can't tell whether or not Justice
Scalia was acting because he's hallucinating or because
it's some other volitional impairment, if it's an
irresistible impulse, if you will, whether it's emotional,
perceptual, intellectual. They can't tell. They can't
get in somebody's mind. And what they have to do then is
simply rely on what the individual says.
Mr. Crane told this -- the court below -- he
told the experts below, rather. He didn't testify. He
told the experts below that he could control his behavior.
Mr. Hendricks had testimony that you refer to in the
Hendricks decision that said he couldn't control his
behavior. So, because the psychiatrist can't make a
determination objectively, we're left with a potential
predator telling us who applies -- who's eligible for this
law and who isn't.
The other point I would make to this Court is
that Mr. Hendricks said I can't control my urge to molest
children. But he could. He never molested little
children in front of their parents, never in front of his
wife, never in front of law enforcement --
QUESTION: Well, but that's not the premise that
Hendricks proceeded upon. Now you're -- now you're saying
that Hendricks rested on an insecure factual assumption.
MS. STOVALL: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I don't
understand.
QUESTION: Well, you're -- are you trying to say
that what we said in Hendricks was -- was dictum or --
MS. STOVALL: I --
QUESTION: -- just was -- was wrong in the -- in
the context of that case?
MS. STOVALL: I'm certainly not saying you were
wrong, Your Honor. I'm saying that you did not create a
third constitutional standard, that the impairments that
I --
QUESTION: Well, was the Court under some
misimpression as -- as to Hendricks' ability to control
himself?
MS. STOVALL: There wasn't evidence before this
Court that would say whether or not Hendricks suffered
from a volitional impairment or not. All we have is what
he himself said.
QUESTION: But then, it seems to me, that we're
back to square one. I -- one reading of Hendricks -- and
tell me if this is wrong -- is that we want to find some
measure of determining how dangerous this person is to
society because that's in the statute. And because many
criminals are -- have personality disorders and are
dangerous to society, we want to narrow it somewhat. So,
we -- so the Court added this volitional control aspect.
Is that a fair reading of Hendricks?
MS. STOVALL: Your Honor, I don't believe it is
because Mr. Hendricks, in particular, didn't suffer from a
personality disorder. He had what is classified under the
Kansas statute as an abnormality mentally and that was
being pedophilia. The Kansas statute specifically says
there are two kinds of impairment that we could look at.
They're emotional as well as volitional.
QUESTION: Well, is the test -- are there
different requirements if you proceed based on a
personality disorder than if you proceed from a mental
abnormality?
MS. STOVALL: Well, the Kansas court seems to
think there is because there is no definition in the
statute of a personality disorder. It wasn't defined --
QUESTION: Well, I was -- I was suggesting that
you thought there was based on the answer you gave to me.
MS. STOVALL: No, Your Honor. What --
QUESTION: You think they're both one and the
same. You have no different requirements for mental
abnormality or personality disorder. In -- in either
case, the test for civil commitment is the same.
MS. STOVALL: Based on the Kansas Supreme Court
decision or based on the --
QUESTION: Based on what you think the law ought
to be and what the -- and how the statute is properly
interpreted.
MS. STOVALL: We believe there is no
distinction. There should be no distinction between
mental abnormality and personality disorder, that as long
as we -- we show that mental condition and the
dangerousness, that there should not be a distinction.
QUESTION: So, anybody with a personality
disorder that's a danger to himself or others can be --
can be civilly committed regardless of volitional control.
That's -- that's your position.
MS. STOVALL: Right. They have to have some
sort of impairment in order to have the diagnosis of a
personality disorder. That's part and parcel of a
diagnosis of the DSM. But it would be our position it's
not limited to volitional control, but could be that
laundry list of emotional capacity -- emotional
impairment, which is even what the Kansas statute
contemplates for mental --
QUESTION: -- the DSM that you're mentioning, if
you look at the definition of personality disorder and
they say pick three out of a list of seven, you could pick
out habitually doesn't work, doesn't pay debts, is
reckless, irritable. That's something -- I mean, it's
considerably less than what is defined as an abnormality
like pedophilia. There are a lot of ordinary people who
would fit that description.
MS. STOVALL: What -- what I want to be able to
do today, Your Honors, is to convince you that actually
that's not true, that an antisocial personality disorder
is a severe mental pathology that really does give us
sociopaths and psychopaths that cannot conform to our
rules. There are a lot of individuals in this country and
certainly in our prisons that break the law, and they may
suffer from antisocial personality traits, but that's
entirely separate and distinct from having a full-blown
diagnosis of an antisocial personality disorder.
QUESTION: Well, your statute itself, when
you're talking about a sexually violent predator, you say
mental abnormality or personality disorder, which makes
the person likely to engage in repeat acts of sexual
violence. So, that certainly qualifies the personality
disorder. It's not any personality disorder that would do
that.
MS. STOVALL: That's exactly right, Your Honor.
The point is that it's a severe diagnosis, for one thing,
and then secondly, it has to tie directly to the kind of
dangerous behavior that we believe these individuals will
commit if they don't have the treatment.
QUESTION: And I take it what your -- what your
statute is trying to get at is -- is something more than
mere repetitive conduct, mere recidivism. Is that fair to
say?
MS. STOVALL: Absolutely.
QUESTION: And -- and is the element that
distinguishes this kind of behavior from mere
repetitiveness some element of lack of control, not
necessarily volitional control, but some element of lack
of control, perhaps lack of control resulting from
delusion, perceptual difficulties and so on, but -- but
some -- some aspect of the personality that -- that gives
that individual a -- a lesser chance of controlling
behavior in -- in a way that avoids committing crimes. Is
that fair to say?
MS. STOVALL: With a slight exception. It's the
dangerousness, the risk of recidivism tied to a mental
disorder. To get the diagnosis of a mental disorder,
there will be an impairment that's part and parcel of
that.
QUESTION: Right.
MS. STOVALL: But I want to be clear that we
don't think there needs to be a -- a third separate, very
distinguishable constitutional element --
QUESTION: I guess what I'm -- I guess what I'm
getting at is it -- it seems sensible to call somebody who
is just an habitual offender at some dangerous crime or
serious crime dangerous. And I take it that what the
Kansas statute and other statutes like it is trying to get
at, by speaking of mental disorder or personality
disorder, is some extra element beyond the mere
probability of doing an act which society has called
dangerous. And I think -- I think --
MS. STOVALL: That's 100 percent accurate.
That's exactly where we are, Your Honor. And we think
that having that mental abnormality or mental disorder
gets us away from just predicting who's going to be
dangerous.
QUESTION: But what is that -- what is that?
That's exactly the issue. What is it that you -- how --
what form of words will you use to define what counts as a
mental disorder that will distinguish the people whom you
want to civilly commit from your mine-run recidivist
criminal?
MS. STOVALL: That they have to have a mental --
QUESTION: Yes, but what -- that's the problem
in the case. The problem is what counts as a mental
disorder. And the Kansas court thought what counts as a
mental disorder is a total inability to control behavior.
MS. STOVALL: That's correct.
QUESTION: You say that's not the right
definition. Very well. What is?
MS. STOVALL: What is in the statute, a severe
mental --
QUESTION: No, no. What is the definition of
the word, mental disorder, that appears in the statute?
If a person were to say every person who commits a crime,
15 times running, is a sociopath and thereby falls within
DSM-IV, you're not going to permit that. You want to
distinguish that sociopath from a person who is really
mentally disordered and he isn't your mine-run criminal.
All right. Give me the form of words that will do it.
MS. STOVALL: I believe they are there now,
that --
QUESTION: All that's there now is mental
disorder.
MS. STOVALL: Well, actually it's mental
abnormality and personality disorder. You and this Court
in the Hendricks decision said that pedophilia certainly
qualifies as a --
QUESTION: Well, and here we have -- we have
here an antisocial personality disorder. That -- that was
the diagnosis.
MS. STOVALL: That's right. Along with
exhibitionism.
QUESTION: And the State's own expert said in
Mr. Crane's trial that approximately 75 percent of the
prison population has antisocial personality disorder.
Now, this is an unusual statute where after the
person serves a sentence for the crime, the State can then
proceed again and get them locked up for a very long time
because of his dangerousness.
MS. STOVALL: And the mental disorder.
QUESTION: We're trying -- okay. But most of
them -- 75 percent of them was the testimony -- suffer
from antisocial personality disorder. So, is the State
going to be able to proceed again against 75 percent of
the prison population? What is the added element beyond
an antisocial personality disorder?
MS. STOVALL: I would suggest to you that there
doesn't need to be an additional element. While I
acknowledge the expert said 75 percent suffers from that
in the deposition, he wasn't -- he certainly didn't quote
empirical studies to demonstrate that. I would suggest
that probably 90-95 percent of the prison population
suffer from antisocial personality traits, but that's
different than a disorder.
The antisocial personality disorder, psychopaths
and sexual -- psychopaths and sociopaths with actual
diagnosis -- and Ted Bundy is the best example of that.
These are really serious individuals not 75 percent of the
population.
QUESTION: What is it -- what is it about them
that we can isolate that shows that they are really
serious beyond the mere repetition of their crime?
In other words, let me put the question this
way. Under -- under the rule you want us to adopt in
which, as you put it, there is no third element, why
aren't you free to go after, let's say, every second
offender of a sexual crime at the time of release and say,
this person is dangerous within -- sufficiently dangerous
within the meaning of the statute to -- to commit here?
Now, you're not claiming you can do that, but I
want to know what it is that you have to prove that stands
in the way of your being able to do that.
MS. STOVALL: We have to show a mental illness.
QUESTION: And -- and --
MS. STOVALL: And that's a psychiatrically
approved condition that --
QUESTION: No, but --
MS. STOVALL: -- you can get an expert --
QUESTION: -- anything in the DSM.
MS. STOVALL: Right.
QUESTION: Then you're --
MS. STOVALL: I'm sorry. Not anything in the
DSM.
QUESTION: Then you're back to Justice
Ginsburg's question, which -- which is very much like
Justice O'Connor's. If all you've got to do is satisfy
one criterion in the DSM, you're going to pick up, in
Justice O'Connor's reference to the experts, 75 percent
probably of your prison population and -- and based on the
-- the categorization Justice Ginsburg described, it would
seem to me you would pickup a substantial part of the
population outside of prison.
Now, I know you don't want to do that, but on
your theory that there is -- there is no third element
beyond this categorization, what stands in the way of your
doing that?
MS. STOVALL: The actual diagnosis that those
folks actually have those diagnosis and are sexually
violent. Being sexually violent absolutely limits that.
What I would --
QUESTION: All right. Are you saying then that
in the example Justice Ginsburg gave you -- what was it --
four out of seven in the list?
MS. STOVALL: Three of seven.
QUESTION: That -- that as -- as long as -- as
the -- the expert witness says, yes, this person is
subject to four out of those seven personality traits,
that that person, if a sexual offender, could be locked up
under the statute?
MS. STOVALL: They could be committed for
treatment under this -- this statute, yes, Your Honor.
QUESTION: Wow.
MS. STOVALL: And Mr. Crane -- what -- what I
would want you to know, though, is that it is not a --
just because these individuals have committed crimes
doesn't mean they have an antisocial personality disorder.
Of the seven criteria that are listed, that can certainly
be supplemented by independent judgment of psychiatrists,
of the --
QUESTION: But it would be very -- it -- it
would be -- on Justice Ginsburg's example, it would be
very easy to prove.
MS. STOVALL: It could be if they actually have
that diagnosis and have those personality traits and have
done that behavior.
If I -- although it is not in the record, what I
would like this Court to know is that out of 5,000
individuals that have been screened in this process in
Kansas, a mere 1 -- less than 1 and a half percent have
actually been civilly committed. And we have --
QUESTION: -- the prosecutor then, but I mean,
that's not something that -- that we would generally do.
I mean, if we thought of all prosecutors as being wise and
kind and good, then there would be a whole lot of rights
that we wouldn't have to worry about.
MS. STOVALL: I understand.
QUESTION: But Justice Kennedy brought up in --
in Hendricks a concern, and this case seems to fit that.
That is, this man entered a plea bargain.
MS. STOVALL: I'm sorry?
QUESTION: He entered a plea bargain. Right?
And he got a relatively short time. And then, through
this civil process, without beyond a reasonable doubt as
the standard, just a preponderance --
QUESTION: No. There is a reasonable -- beyond
a reasonable doubt, yes.
MS. STOVALL: It is beyond a --
QUESTION: But it is a civil proceeding.
MS. STOVALL: It is but we have that higher
standard.
QUESTION: May I --
QUESTION: Still, you could -- you could get to
where you were or even beyond. You could get to the full
amount of time that the person could have been sentenced
if there had been no plea bargain, and if you -- the
maximum penalty because this is indefinite. Right?
MS. STOVALL: It's indefinite with annual
reviews, and they are allowed to be released when they
have been determined safe to be at large. And while it is
not part of the record, I would want you to know that Mr.
Crane is in transitional release now, after about 3 years
in this treatment program.
QUESTION: What do the annual reviews -- what do
they deal with? Is it possible at -- at the end of an
annual review for the person to be released?
MS. STOVALL: Yes. Could go to the transitional
release phase and then the conditional release phase and
then ultimately to final discharge. The annual release
ensures -- the annual review, rather, ensures that they're
not warehoused, that they have an opportunity to come to
the court on an annual basis.
QUESTION: What does the court have to find in
order to release them? It is no longer beyond a
reasonable doubt that --
MS. STOVALL: Then it's -- the State has to show
-- I'm sorry. The -- the respondent has to show probable
cause that they have changed. The State, as a matter of
policy, never objects when there are psychiatrists say
they're safe to be in the next phase of the program or the
next. We've never objected to that. We have six that are
actually out of the facility now and in either
transitional and/or conditional release.
QUESTION: And isn't it a frequent case, though,
that the psychiatrists say, well, we can't tell until we
clinically re-observe him and we can't clinically observe
him until he's in a normal environment? I mean, can
psychiatrists --
MS. STOVALL: It hasn't happened in the six so
far that -- that have -- have been released.
QUESTION: The American Psychiatric Association
says in their brief that the, quote, antisocial
personality disorder, end quote, which is DSM-IV at 701-
706, applies to 40 to 60 percent among the male-sentenced
population. So, are you saying that 40 to 60 percent of
the male-sentenced population could be committed for life
civilly? Are you saying that DSM-IV is not the standard,
or are you saying that the American Psychiatric
Association is wrong when it tells us 40 percent to 60
percent fit within the DSM-IV definition?
MS. STOVALL: In terms of the antisocial
personality disorder alone, I don't know. What I would
say is that certainly 40 to 60 percent --
QUESTION: All right.
QUESTION: Did they say how they know? I -- I
-- you know, I could --
QUESTION: I -- I don't know if they know or
not.
QUESTION: If -- if they stated --
QUESTION: But I know they know better than I
do.
QUESTION: Did they say that 40 to 60 percent
are beyond a reasonable doubt suffering from an antisocial
personality disorder?
MS. STOVALL: I doubt that, and I doubt that --
that it applies to --
QUESTION: The reason -- the point of my
question is, is DSM-IV the standard and if DSM-IV is not
the standard, what is? That's what I think all of us, or
several of us anyway, are trying to get to. And it may be
you -- you cannot address that further, but if you could.
MS. STOVALL: The DSM-IV absolutely is the
standard in the psychiatric profession, but it is not the
Bible and is not the only thing psychiatrists use. They
very much can supplement that with their own judgment, and
in fact, that's part of the prefatory language in the DSM.
QUESTION: May I ask you this question? And I'm
concerned about whether the instructions were adequate and
whether you think the instructions were adequate. And one
of the reasons I have the question is they do not seem, on
their face, to require any finding of volitional
impairment. And it seems to me we might look at
volitional impairment in three different ways, one that
has to be total inability to comply, some inability to
comply, or that it's totally irrelevant to the issue.
Which of those three positions is yours?
MS. STOVALL: The last, that it's irrelevant to
a diagnosis.
QUESTION: There's no need to show any
volitional impairment in order to obtain a commitment
under this statute, so the instruction is correct.
MS. STOVALL: That -- that is absolutely the
State's position.
QUESTION: And I think it's also unnecessary to
show any other kind of impairment in addition to the two
elements that you're describing.
MS. STOVALL: In order to get a -- in terms of
the instructions, that's true because to get a diagnosis,
you have to have an impairment. You can't be diagnosed
with anything under DSM without having an impairment. So,
it's part and parcel.
QUESTION: -- the actual difficulty in
controlling, not -- not utter inability to control
conduct, but difficulty in controlling conduct. Don't you
have to show that?
QUESTION: She said -- she didn't say that.
MS. STOVALL: I don't believe we have to show
that.
QUESTION: How could the person be dangerous --
MS. STOVALL: Because they have this --
QUESTION: -- by reason of the personality
disorder if the personality disorder does not produce a
difficulty in -- in controlling conduct?
MS. STOVALL: In order to link together the --
QUESTION: I must say, I thought -- I thought
you conceded that you have to show difficulty in
controlling conduct, and if you don't, this is a quite
different case from what I thought.
MS. STOVALL: And I misspoke, Your Honor. The
-- within the definition of the mental abnormality itself,
we don't have to show lack of control, but the statutory
language then leads us into that you have this mental
abnormality or disorder that makes you likely or that
predisposes you. So, there is the connection that we have
to show.
QUESTION: Well, no --
QUESTION: In other words --
QUESTION: It predisposes you to do things you
want to do.
QUESTION: Yes.
QUESTION: So that, it seems to me, doesn't
answer the question.
MS. STOVALL: Our --
QUESTION: Where is it in the statutory language
that talks about volitional control? It doesn't.
MS. STOVALL: The mental abnormality is defined
in the statute and it does mention both volitional and
emotional capacity --
QUESTION: A personality disorder does not.
MS. STOVALL: It is not defined and I think
that's because it's such a common term, the legislature
didn't define it. Mental abnormality was a very unique
term. So, I think they chose to define it, but they
include emotional as well as volitional impairments there.
And if the Kansas Supreme Court is right, then you must
strike out emotional because we could prove it under the
statute by an emotional impairment that they say is not
valid. Only a volitional impairment is allowed. And --
and so --
QUESTION: But you say emotional is, and -- and
I guess emotional impairment I suppose would describe
every sociopath in the country. I mean, I thought a
sociopath by definition was somebody who just didn't care
about society's standards.
MS. STOVALL: That is absolutely one part --
QUESTION: That would satisfy as an emotional
impairment, wouldn't it?
MS. STOVALL: It is an emotional impairment,
yes, Your Honor. That's true.
QUESTION: So --
MS. STOVALL: But the Kansas court would say
that --
QUESTION: -- in fact, we -- I think we get back
to the point that on your theory any sociopath who has
committed a -- a sexual offense can be committed under
this statute upon release.
MS. STOVALL: But it takes more than having the
likelihood of committing more sex crimes and/or not having
any empathy before you could be diagnosed with an
antisocial personality disorder. And so, there --
QUESTION: It would take -- it would take four
out of seven on Justice Ginsburg's list.
MS. STOVALL: It takes three, actually three of
seven. But it does make a significant diagnosis. It is a
mental pathology. It isn't something that --
QUESTION: Beyond a reasonable doubt.
MS. STOVALL: Again, Your Honor, you're exactly
right. Beyond a reasonable doubt we have to be able to --
QUESTION: If we take just those three things
beyond a reasonable doubt, that definition doesn't say
trait. It says antisocial personality disorder, and
you're familiar with this list. You could be a liar. You
could be a malingerer and you could not pay your debts,
and you'd make those three.
MS. STOVALL: I would suggest to you that's part
of the evaluative process of a psychologist then in saying
this is someone who is likely to continue to be sexually
violent. If that's all they've done --
QUESTION: The prosecutor says, DCM, this
category fits, antisocial personality disorder, any three
of -- and I just gave you three from the list.
MS. STOVALL: Right, but that doesn't mean that
one of the experts would say that makes them fit under
this law to be sexually violent predators. They may have
an antisocial personality disorder, but not that it makes
them likely to re-offend, not that the -- the
psychiatrists at Larned would suggest they need to be
civilly committed.
QUESTION: General Stovall, you have read
Hendricks, as all of us have. And -- and the part that's
on substantive due process is not long. It's four pages,
and in those four pages, there are six references to
people -- not Hendricks, but people who are unable to
control their behavior, confinement for those who are
unable to control their dangerousness. Are you -- you're
essentially saying we should just read out that language.
It was incautious. Is that what you're telling us?
MS. STOVALL: I am because I don't believe that
was central or necessary to the holding. What I believe
is in the majority opinion, you were using that to
describe the mental abnormality, just to talk about --
it's a substitute. On -- on page 360 of the --
QUESTION: The holding -- the holding was,
indeed, described differently. It at one point said -- it
did mention volitional impairment, but it said the
following. The Kansas act is plainly of a kind -- these
other civil commit -- and statutes. It requires a finding
of future dangerousness and then links that finding to the
existence of a mental abnormality or personality disorder
that makes it difficult, if not impossible for the person
to control his dangerous behavior. That seems to me --
MS. STOVALL: That's -- that's exactly --
QUESTION: -- the crux of the holding of the
case and that portion does not say anything about
volitional impairment, just inability or difficulty in
controlling behavior.
MS. STOVALL: And what I would suggest to you is
on page 360 of -- of the opinion, it becomes very clear
the way that that phrase and those phrases were being
used. This admitted lack of volitional control, coupled
with prediction of future dangerousness adequately
distinguish Hendricks from other dangerous people who are
perhaps more properly dealt with through the criminal
proceedings.
The way of saying admitted lack of volitional
control is another way of simply talking about the mental
impairment. Couple that with dangerousness, and then you
get the two historic requirements of mental illness and
dangerousness that you've always required.
QUESTION: If -- if a jury instruction were
couched in the terms that Justice Scalia just quoted, as
stating the holding in Hendricks, would you find that jury
instruction correct and satisfactory?
MS. STOVALL: I would find it longer than it
needed to be and more inclusive than it needed to be
because --
QUESTION: Would it be -- would it be
constitutionally erroneous? Would you --
MS. STOVALL: Yes. I -- I would say that it --
that it would be --
QUESTION: So, we --
MS. STOVALL: -- because it goes beyond --
QUESTION: That's the holding in Hendricks.
We've got to pull back from Hendricks then in your view.
MS. STOVALL: My view is that what you said in
Hendricks was mental illness that makes somebody dangerous
in sexually violent ways.
QUESTION: Yes. But if Justice Scalia's
quotations correctly stated the holding in Hendricks, I
think you are telling us we have got to draw back from
Hendricks.
MS. STOVALL: Again, what I'm saying, the mental
illness makes them likely to re-offend in sexually violent
ways.
QUESTION: -- why you say we have -- you say we
have to draw back from that statement. What -- what in
that statement is wrong?
MS. STOVALL: That -- that we have to -- that we
have to show the -- the difficulty of maintaining their
behavior, of controlling their behavior.
QUESTION: The statement said --
MS. STOVALL: I don't have the exact --
QUESTION: -- it requires a finding of future
dangerousness and links that finding to the existence of a
mental abnormality or personality disorder that makes it
difficult, if not impossible, for the person to control
his dangerous behavior. What is wrong in that, other than
leaving out beyond a reasonable doubt, which your statute
contains?
MS. STOVALL: Right.
QUESTION: What is -- what is wrong in it?
MS. STOVALL: Only that if -- if we have to
require the finding of that makes it difficult, if not
impossible, for them to control behavior.
QUESTION: You're concerned that the last
sentence --
QUESTION: -- that finding? How are they future
-- wow.
MS. STOVALL: It's -- it's because they're --
they have a mental abnormality. They've committed the
past acts. They're likely to do it in the future. They
have this diagnosis. And so, it's part and parcel, and
common sense would tell you that there's a link and a
bridge, but not that it's a separate statutory term that
needs to be shown and certainly not a constitutional one.
QUESTION: Thank you, General Stovall.
We'll hear from you, Mr. Donham.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN C. DONHAM
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. DONHAM: Mr. Chief Justice, may it please
the Court:
I think the major disagreement between the State
-- the State's view of this and Mr. Crane's view is not
how dangerous is an individual, but why are they
dangerous.
The Kansas Sexual Predator Act was clearly
written to limit the application to those who are
dangerous on account of their mental illness.
QUESTION: You have a nice speaking voice, but
could you raise it just a little bit?
MR. DONHAM: I'm sorry, Judge. I'm sorry, Your
Honor. Excuse me. Is that better? Okay.
Mr. Crane sought a jury instruction at his trial
that was consistent with this Court's decision in
Hendricks. There is or was known to Mr. Crane at that
time only three forms of a mental abnormality or a mental
illness that historically satisfied involuntary,
indefinite civil commitments, and that was the inability
to care for oneself, the absolution of criminal
responsibility or incompetency, and the inability to
exercise self-control.
Now, that term, inability to exercise self-
control, is defined in the passage of volitional control,
the ability to exercise choice and to make a decision
concerning your behavior.
QUESTION: You say it's defined. Where do we
find that definition, Mr. Donham?
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, in the Kansas statute
itself. It's 59-29a02. The definitional portion defines
what a sexually violent predator is.
QUESTION: Can you tell us where we find that in
-- in the papers?
QUESTION: It's the first page of the appendix
to the petitioner's brief I think.
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, joint appendix --
excuse me. Joint appendix, page 157. That would have
been instruction number 9 that was given to the jury.
QUESTION: We're not talking about the
instruction. We're talking about the statute. What is
the statutory provision that's in question that -- that
makes -- that requires -- you say this Kansas statute
requires a volitional impairment. Isn't that what you
said?
MR. DONHAM: No. I'm sorry. The -- it's --
it's our opinion that the Kansas Sexually Violent Predator
Act must be limited to that narrow subgroup of
recidivists, those individuals who cannot control their
behavior.
QUESTION: So that a recidivist who will be a
recidivist because he's delusional and he thinks that
every woman he meets is inviting crude sexual behavior --
he's fully able to control himself if he doesn't think
that the woman is inviting crude sexual behavior, but he
happens to think that every woman he meets is inviting
him, and he would not be covered because that is not a
volitional impairment. He cannot constitutionally be
covered.
MR. DONHAM: I agree with that, and -- and may I
-- may I follow that up with perhaps -- the Kansas Sexual
Predator Act has a number of subsections, one of which is
directly -- directly focused on the type of individual you
just mentioned in your hypothetical.
QUESTION: Which one is that? Subsection.
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, in the definition of a
-- sorry. I'm sorry. I don't have that. It is the
Kansas statute on the sexually violent predator --
QUESTION: Well, I have it here with a number.
You referred to one subsection. I'm asking you what
subsection that is.
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, it's in the statute.
don't believe it's in any of the briefs or in the joint
appendix.
But the Kansas Sexual Predator Act reaches those
who have been absolved of criminal irresponsibility, those
found --
QUESTION: Well, but you're telling us now what
the Kansas Sexual Predator Act does. Cite us to some
sections. I don't -- we're not interested in some general
summary.
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, I'm sorry. I don't
have the statute number at my fingertips.
QUESTION: I thought your submission here was
not that the act didn't cover your client, but you're --
you're supporting the holding of the Kansas Supreme Court
that the act does cover your client, but inasmuch as --
insofar as it does, it's unconstitutional if it goes
beyond volitional impairment. Isn't -- isn't that what
this case is about?
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, this -- the facts of
the Crane case dealt specifically with Mr. Crane and Mr.
Crane alone. Prior to his criminal trial, he sought a
defense of insanity, and that was ruled out by the State.
That left him with only one feasible mental illness which
might qualify him for commitment under the Sexual Predator
Act, as understood by Mr. Crane, following your decision
in Hendricks. And that was that he was unable to control
his dangerous sexual behavior.
QUESTION: Does not --
QUESTION: Excuse me. Can I just -- I really
don't know what we have before us here. I understood the
issue before this Court to be the fact that the Kansas
Supreme Court held the Sexually Violent Predators Act,
which we had just said in Hendricks was constitutional --
the Kansas Supreme Court held it unconstitutional, yet
again, as applied to someone who, like your client, has
only an emotional or personality disorder rather than a
volitional disorder. Isn't that what the Kansas Supreme
Court opinion said? There has to be a volitional disorder
or else it is unconstitutional to apply the Kansas
statute.
MR. DONHAM: That's what the Kansas Supreme
Court said.
QUESTION: All right. Now tell us why -- why it
is constitutional to commit someone who -- who makes
sexual advances to women because of a volitional
impairment, but not constitutional to commit someone who
is delusional. He is just as dangerous. He is just as
mentally impaired, and the only difference is he's
delusional rather than cannot control his -- his will.
Why is the one unconstitutional and the other
constitutional? I don't understand it.
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, if -- if I have to
fault the opinion in the -- of the Kansas Supreme Court is
-- it is that it expanded its decision that was directly
for Mr. Crane under the specific subsection of the Kansas
Sexual Predator Act that dealt with individuals who had
been found criminally responsible. And it expanded that
and its terminology to give effect to all commitments.
The -- the Sexual Predator Act is and should be
available for individuals such as your hypothetical,
individuals who, because of some psychosis or
hallucinations, have in effect lost their ability to
control their behavior as well, although perhaps through
some better recognized form. There is -- there are
specific subsections of the Kansas Sexual Predator Act
that would pull those people in for a commitment
proceeding even though they don't go forward -- forward
with a trial or if they've been found not guilty by reason
of insanity.
Mr. Crane, however, was in that unique section
of people who have -- who have been found legally
responsible, who are competent to stand trial, who are
imprisoned, and upon release this -- this new group of
individuals that are now subject to involuntary commitment
for some mental disorder this Court found that the
appropriate level of -- of mental illness, if you will,
for Mr. Hendricks was his professed inability to control
his behavior, and that --
QUESTION: You say we -- we found that. I
realize that the opinion refers to the fact that he was
unable to control his behavior. Are you saying that was
-- that was the holding of the case?
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, as -- as I read --
Hendricks stands for the proposition that the Kansas act
is constitutional because, as with Mr. Hendricks, what it
determined was that the State was not seeking to
involuntarily commit people based on dangerousness alone,
which would have been absolutely unconstitutional under
Foucha v. Louisiana. It seized upon this additional
element which separated and distinguished Mr. Hendricks
from the larger class of just garden variety recidivists.
It held that given that limiting factor --
QUESTION: Which -- which limiting factor was
difficulty or impossibility of controlling behavior.
Right?
MR. DONHAM: The -- I think the exact language
of the Kansas statute, or at least of Mr. Hendricks -- I'm
sorry. The opinion of Mr. Hendricks was that he admitted
that he was unable to control his behavior. The only way
he himself could be sure he would never offend again was
for him to die.
QUESTION: I just read -- I just read the
portion of the -- of the opinion that I think the most
relevant, and what it says is difficult, if not
impossible, to control behavior. To show utter
impossibility to control behavior would be very difficult.
That's -- that's what it said.
Now -- now, you equate that difficulty or if not
impossibility to control behavior with volitional
impairment. Why do you -- why do you equate that, as I
think the Kansas Supreme Court did? They -- they seemed
to say that if there's no volitional impairment, there
cannot be this difficulty or impossibility of controlling
behavior. But that doesn't seem to me to be true.
MR. DONHAM: Well, when Mr. Hendricks professed
that he could not control his behavior, that's an
indication that when confronted with temptation, he was
unable to exercise his free will.
QUESTION: That's right. In Hendricks it
happened to be a volitional impairment. But why do you
assert that that is the only reason for which one can say
a person is unable to control his behavior? Why isn't
delusion a reason why a person can't control his behavior?
He doesn't know what he's confronted with.
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, I'm not trying to limit
the -- what a psychiatrist or a psychologist might be able
to say affects the ability of an individual to conform his
behavior to society's requirements. I'm not standing here
today as a psychiatrist or a psychologist. It's a murky
subject at best, and even those who work in it disagree.
The principal distinction that I take from the
Hendricks decision is that Mr. Hendricks could not have
been constitutionally involuntarily committed absent that
additional element that set him apart from others who
simply behave out of clear choice because they lack any
respect or moral value.
QUESTION: Well, I would have thought, really,
that that is not what we limited it to in Hendricks, that
a delusional lack of control would be entirely sufficient
constitutionally as -- as it relates to a lack of control,
that it could be volitional or delusional, that the Kansas
court went too far in requiring only volitional as a
constitutional standard.
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, I would agree with
that.
QUESTION: Yes, so if you --
QUESTION: You think the court erred.
MR. DONHAM: I -- I agree with that and I hope I
haven't misled the Court. I -- I've been acting on behalf
of Mr. --
QUESTION: So, you agree that the Kansas Supreme
Court went too far.
MR. DONHAM: I agree that they perhaps imposed
too strict a limit on these additional elements that have
to be found in order to involuntarily commit.
QUESTION: But that there has to be some
additional elements.
MR. DONHAM: Absolutely.
QUESTION: And the most appropriate one at hand
in this case was volitional. Were there any other
additional elements that might have been argued in your
case? And if not, what are the additional elements that
might -- we might encounter in cases somewhat like this?
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, to the first part of
your question, the only available argument that we could
have made, the only conceivable jury instruction that
would have been consistent with the contradictory evidence
at trial and this Court's opinion in Hendricks was a -- a
demand for a jury instruction, requiring the jury to find
that it was his mental abnormality or his personality
disorder that made him be likely to re-offend because it
interfered with his ability to control his behavior.
QUESTION: So, what are the words that you want
there? That is, imagine I'm talking about the set of
people who are very dangerous. Imagine I'm talking about
the set of people who are very dangerous because of a
mental problem. In defining mental problem, we could have
one subset that has a cognitive disorder well beyond the
normal person, including the normal prisoner. We could
have a set of people who have an emotional disorder well
beyond what the ordinary prisoner recidivist has, and we
could be talking about what the Kansas Supreme Court
thought it was talking about in this case, the set of
people who arguably have a volitional disorder. In
respect to that, it sounded to me, if that's the subject
of this case, that the Kansas court used the word cannot
control, whereas our Court used the word difficult, if not
impossible, to control. The only argument here being if
there is some difference between those two, and I would
think there is.
But how should we put that in your opinion?
Would it satisfy you if we said this case is about
volitional disorders, and there the Constitution permits
us to take a dangerous person and commit him civilly if
his ability to control his behavior is significantly, a
lot, quite a lot less than the ordinary person, including
the ordinary prisoner sentenced in a -- in a penitentiary?
How do you want -- in other words, I'm looking for the
proper standard. Cannot sounds too tough. Difficult, if
not impossible, maybe that's all right. But that's caused
confusion. So, what's your standard?
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, I know the State has
touted the -- the descriptive adjective adequate control.
I'm not sure if I know how to answer that. I would think
that if you perform the criminal act, your control was not
adequate. And so, it would seem that what the medical
personnel are going to have to end up testifying and what
eventually will be a question for the jury to decide is
whether or not, given the opportunity and the chance for
success at committing a criminal act, this individual
chose to do that as an exercise of his or her free will or
whether or not some overriding mental condition compelled
them to act or disabled their capacity to refrain from
acting.
QUESTION: I don't -- I really don't understand
where we are now. You're -- you're objecting, as I
understand it now, just to the jury instruction. I mean,
we didn't take this case to decide whether the jury
instruction was right under the statute or not. You don't
challenge the statute. You think the statute is fine.
It's just a bad jury instruction that occurred?
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, as -- as I read the --
the Kansas statute, the legislative body intended that the
mental defect caused the individual to be likely to commit
future predatory acts of violence.
QUESTION: No. It -- it says exactly that, and
you think that's okay.
MR. DONHAM: Yes, and this Court --
QUESTION: And the Kansas Supreme Court didn't
think it was okay.
MR. DONHAM: I disagree with that. I -- I think
-- and allow me to follow up. This Court in Hendricks
reinforced the notion that the Kansas act is
constitutional because there did exist, at least with Mr.
Hendricks, an additional element that because of that,
because of his mental illness, he was likely to offend.
The State -- or the Kansas Supreme Court was
presented simply the fact pattern in Mr. Crane's case, and
-- and that fact pattern was essentially -- or at least
the State's position was we don't have to prove any kind
of additional element whatsoever.
QUESTION: Well, they have to prove the
causality. You're saying they don't have to prove
causality. I mean, the way the statute reads is: who
suffers from a mental abnormality or personality disorder
which makes the person likely to engage in repeat acts of
sexual violence. It's not just that he's likely to -- to
commit future acts of sexual violence, but it also must be
shown that the reason he's likely to do it is because that
is caused by a mental abnormality or personality disorder.
I mean, it seems to me, the statute says exactly what you
think it ought to say, and you're just -- you're now
complaining about the jury instruction?
MR. DONHAM: We did object to the jury
instruction because we felt it did not adequately address
the theme that the State carried to the jury. What the
State presented to the jury, through all four of its
expert witnesses, is that Mr. Crane satisfied the
definition of a sexually violent predator because of his
prior repetitive history of criminal offenses. Their own
expert, Dr. Mabugat, even testified on the stand that if
-- that in satisfying this definition, if the jurors only
take his current mental status, coupled with his instant
offense for the aggravated sexual battery, he's not a
sexually violent predator.
Dr. Mabugat went on to testify --
QUESTION: Well, just -- just a minute, Mr.
Donham. The question presented by the State is -- in its
petition for certiorari is -- is a very general one,
whether the Fourteenth Amendment requires the State to
prove that -- and I think if you're going to bring up a
jury instruction, you're required to cross petition for
certiorari and raise that yourself. You didn't do that,
did you?
MR. DONHAM: Yes, sir, I did. I -- I filed in
my response an objection to the --
QUESTION: The Kansas Supreme Court held the
jury instruction bad, did it not?
MR. DONHAM: I'm sorry. I -- I -- on the
petition?
QUESTION: Just answer Justice Stevens'
question.
MR. DONHAM: I'm sorry, Your Honor. On the --
QUESTION: Is it not correct that the Kansas
Supreme Court held that the jury was not properly
instructed?
MR. DONHAM: That's correct.
QUESTION: It was not properly instructed not
because it was not instructed in accordance with the
Kansas statute, but because if it had been instructed in
accordance with the Kansas statute, that would have been
unconstitutional. Wasn't that the basis of the holding?
And you're saying the Kansas statute is not
unconstitutional. I mean, the whole basis for the Kansas
Supreme Court thinking that the jury instruction, which
followed the statute, was unconstitutional was, of course,
that the statute was unconstitutional.
But it seems to me what you're saying here is
that the statute is okay. Didn't you say the statute is
okay now?
MR. DONHAM: What I said, Your Honor, is that
the statute requires that an individual susceptible to
being involuntarily committed must have a mental illness
that makes him or her likely to re-offend.
QUESTION: What it says, right?
MR. DONHAM: That's correct.
What we ask -- our jury instruction was intended
to -- to clarify or to put a face to what is intended by
this word make. The term make has a lot of definitions,
and our -- our version of it was that Crane's antisocial
personality disorder had to compel him to behave in a
certain way or --
QUESTION: The Kansas Supreme Court appeared to
hold that a person must be completely unable to control
his behavior in order to meet what it thought the
constitutional standard is under the Due Process Clause.
That's how I read the Kansas opinion, that it thought that
there had to be a total, complete lack of control, not
just substantial, not just adequate lack, a complete lack
in order to meet U.S. constitutional standards.
MR. DONHAM: I agree with that. It --
QUESTION: Well, I don't think I do. I don't
think that's what Hendricks said was the constitutional
standard. Some lack of control, but I hadn't thought it
had to be 100 percent or complete. I thought the Kansas
court got it wrong and went too far. There has to be
something there, but probably not complete.
MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, I suppose the
difference may lie in -- in what is meant by total or
absolute lack of control. No doubt an individual who has
certain designs to commit an act may exercise at times
some degree of control over his or her behavior.
The -- the essential element in these
involuntary commitment statutes that must be kept in mind
is, number one, they're -- they're civil. They're not --
they're not criminal. Number two, it's to commit the
person to a mental hospital for treatment of the mental
disease or defect, and this mental disease or defect must
be significant enough to warrant depriving this person of
their liberty.
QUESTION: Yes. A -- a significant or
substantial lack of control, but to try to move toward an
irresistible impulse standard would fly in the face of
what the American Psychiatric Association thinks is
likely. I mean, it just -- it seemed to me the Kansas
court went somewhat too far in establishing the -- what it
thought the constitutional requirement was.
MR. DONHAM: I'm sorry. Was that a question?
Excuse me.
(Laughter.)
QUESTION: You can interpret it as you wish.
(Laughter.)
QUESTION: You're free to dispute my
interpretation of that --
MR. DONHAM: Well, some of these terms are --
are pretty slippery, and of course, they're all taken in
context of what does a psychiatrist mean by them. I'm not
a psychiatrist or a psychologist, but I think that this
Court can set a -- a benchmark that can be followed by --
QUESTION: We're not psychiatrists or
psychologists either. That's -- that's part of the
problem in --
(Laughter.)
QUESTION: -- in our setting as precise a
benchmark as you would like us to set.
QUESTION: Well, what -- did the Kansas Supreme
Court quote the very words from Hendricks that Justice
Scalia referred to before to make this finding by linking
future dangerousness to a mental abnormality, a
personality disorder, that makes it difficult, if not
impossible, to control such behavior? That's what the
Kansas Supreme Court repeated. You seemed to have
conceded that it went beyond that.
MR. DONHAM: No. I think my concession to the
-- to the fact that the Kansas Supreme Court may have
expanded its decision for Mr. Crane too far and -- and by
doing that, it in essence, if you will, limited the
application of the act. By taking the particular fact
pattern of Mr. Crane for which the only available and the
only reasonable qualifying mental defect would have been
the inability to control behavior and saying that it's now
required for all persons, what the Kansas Supreme Court
did was effectively cut off, I think unfairly, the ability
of the State to incapacitate people who have other type of
significant mental disorders such as Justice Scalia has
pointed out, the hallucinations, the psychoses. Those are
a different breed of mental illnesses with different
effects.
QUESTION: Would -- would your objections and
the -- and perhaps the Kansas court's objections have been
met if instruction no. 9 at page 156 of the joint appendix
said that mental abnormality means a congenital or
acquired condition substantially affecting the emotional
or volitional capacity?
MR. DONHAM: If I were to write the instruction,
it would have read it is a acquired or congenital
condition that affects the emotional or volitional
capacity to the degree that the person is unable to
exercise self-control.
QUESTION: Just -- what about a person who
thinks other people are -- are like rocks? You know? I
mean, he can control himself. He just has a totally
bizarre emotional -- totally bizarre emotional situation,
an autistic kind of person unable to understand emotions
at all. What do we do with that person, absolutely mad as
a hatter, in common parlance, and also dangerous?
MR. DONHAM: Well, if he's dangerous because --
QUESTION: Yes. He's dangerous because he's
autistic or has no sense whatsoever of what a feeling is.
All right? Now, can he control himself? Absolutely. He
has no volitional impairment. He just has this bizarre
emotional situation. What do we do about that person?
And, of course, I'll imagine it as bizarre as you want.
(Laughter.)
MR. DONHAM: I -- I would say that he's an
appropriate for an involuntary commitment under the
provision --
QUESTION: Right. So, what standard there do we
use?
MR. DONHAM: That he would be unable --
QUESTION: So, they can't do it with control
because control has to do with volition.
MR. DONHAM: This would be a person susceptible
to commitment because he's unable to care for himself, and
therefore poses a danger.
QUESTION: No. He cares for himself perfectly.
He just has this emotional impairment. What do we do?
It's a problem.
MR. DONHAM: Yes, it is. It's a significant
problem because were talking about depriving people of
their liberty, and we're -- we're basing it on the
testimony of people who don't fully understand their field
of expertise at times, which is why this Court should set
a high benchmark to preclude the inadvertent commitment of
someone who really shouldn't have gone to a mental
hospital.
I'm particularly distressed over the use of an
antisocial personality disorder in that it is -- it is
given simply to someone who has a history of offenses.
So, that history of offenses provides the basis for the
diagnosis, and it provides the basis for the prediction of
future dangerousness. In effect, the State seeks to
involuntarily commit someone because they have a long
prior criminal history.
My time is almost up. If there are no more
questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Donham.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:59 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
49:14 alone 21:13 35:2 37:18 basis 20:8 45:23,25 51:21,22
although 18:13 36:19 becomes 28:14
13:5 14:12 24:6,9,22 25:3 Amendment 45:1 behalf 1:17,18 2:4,6 3:7 31:10 40:5
28:5 30:11 31:1 32:2 41:1 American 21:2,9 47:25 behave 39:16 46:17
48:25 49:23 among 21:5 behavior 3:13,22 4:9 7:5,8 11:18 12:1
22:14 24:21 25:15 27:22 and/or 20:19 26:4 30:6,13,20 32:11 33:9,12,14 35:8
32:24,25 34:24 41:5,6,13 annual 19:19,25 20:2,5,6,8 36:19 37:9,12,25 38:5,11,12,15,20
44:9 50:6,18 51:11 another 28:22 38:22 39:3,4,9 41:3 42:1 46:21
37:19 40:14 50:11,16 anybody 10:3 23:18 27:19,20 34:7
35:6,13 36:12,15,21 37:15 application 31:18 49:9 bit 31:21
43:14 47:12 49:9 applied 35:16 bizarre 50:9,9,17,19
26:9 approximately 14:21 bridge 31:5
43:16,22 asking 34:4 Bundy 15:19
a.m 1:14 3:2 52:5 carried 44:12
21:14 31:6 congenital 49:23 50:2 criminals 8:18
contains 30:15 danger 10:4 51:6
context 8:1 48:13 13:2,7 16:5,5 23:20 28:7,18 29:17
37:18 40:11 41:25 43:5 44:4 convince 10:24 defect 43:5 47:19,19 49:11
51:24 correct 13:19 23:2 29:4 45:15,18 defense 35:3
37:5 47:15 50:22 51:5,15 correctly 29:20 defined 9:10 10:20 24:22 25:1 32:9
27:9 31:1 39:14 46:9 Couple 28:23 definition 9:9 10:16 13:21,24 21:11
15:19 17:9,10 18:11 22:24 E experts 7:4,5 16:25 27:4
26:10 31:3 51:22 E 2:1 3:1,1 extent 4:17
either 9:16 20:18 48:17 facility 20:18
42:5 49:1 43:22 47:14 factor 37:23,24
37:25 38:14,19 emotional 3:22 6:1,24 9:3 10:12,12 fair 8:21 11:22 12:9
11:7,10,13,13 12:12,12 enforcement 7:16 field 51:13
13:5,11,17,18,25 14:10,12 engage 11:11 44:2 filed 45:6
15:2,5,8,16,17 18:3 21:4 enough 47:20 final 20:5
23:23,23 24:9,25 26:6,17 ensures 20:6,6 find 8:15 20:9 29:3,5 32:13,17 40:25
28:5 30:11 35:17,18,19 37:6 entered 19:1,3 finding 22:17 28:3,4 30:9,10,19,23
44:1,6 46:17 49:1 entirely 11:6 39:20 48:24
environment 20:23 fine 43:1
33:5,19,25 34:6,16,25 evidence 8:9 40:23 found 34:11 36:13,24 37:2,6,10 40:11
36:8 37:14 38:2,21 39:6,25 exact 30:8 38:2 four 17:15,19 26:7 27:12,13 44:13
42:8 43:3,9,12 44:10 exactly 11:15 13:4,9 26:13 28:8 43:7 Fourteenth 45:1
45:6,10,14,18 46:7,12 47:2,9 44:7 free 16:3 38:24 42:17 48:9
49:5 50:1,13,21 51:1,4,10 example 15:19 17:14 18:8 frequent 20:20
exception 12:10 from 8:11,23 9:6 11:5,6 12:1,4 13:6
30:14 47:11 exercise 32:7,8,10 38:24 42:17 47:12 27:2 28:18 29:15,21 30:2 31:8 37:22
42:19 44:1 48:23 50:8,16 51:5,7 insecure 7:19
51:23 Honor 5:12 7:20 8:3,22 9:13 11:15 instructions 22:14,15 23:9
17:23 24:5 25:20 26:13 31:23 intellectual 3:23 6:5,25
hospital 47:18 51:17 interpreted 9:22
8:7,10,14,21,23 14:13 18:25 incompetency 32:6 Kansas 1:3,16,17,18 3:4,10,11,18
28:18 29:3,14,15,17,20,22 indeed 27:25 5:17,21 8:25 9:1,8,18 10:13 12:23
35:7,14 37:8,15,16,21 38:3,4 indefinite 19:18,19 32:4 13:17 18:16 25:6,22 28:2 31:17
39:13,13,19 40:24 43:13 independent 18:5 32:14 33:2,6,20 34:2,9,13,20 35:12
47:4 48:23 indicated 3:24 35:15,18,20,22 36:9,11,21 37:15
46:10,17 18:15 33:8 36:12,16,17 37:5 kept 47:15
28:2 43:21 50:10 look 9:2 10:16 22:18 minute 44:23
35:11 39:5 lot 10:21 11:3 18:21 42:2,2 46:15 misspoke 24:5
50:7 Louisiana 37:20 molest 7:13
39:16,20,21 46:24,25,25 made 4:13 40:22 41:2 move 47:23
maintaining 30:5 much 16:22 22:11
48:21 50:7 meets 33:12,15 objecting 42:22
41:2 43:5,17 44:2,3,5 46:10 13:18,23,25 14:9,11 15:2 16:10 24:6 objectively 7:9
24:8,22 25:3 26:11 27:22 28:5,22,24 objects 20:15
35:4,17 36:4 38:5 39:2,23 16:5 17:18,20 19:16 20:2 23:20 28:6 problem 5:17 13:15,16 41:8,8 48:18
41:19 44:18 49:10,11 30:12 39:3,4 41:10,25 42:2 44:2 51:9,11
37:11 38:4,9 40:24 41:22 46:23 personality 3:21 8:18,24 9:6,10,16 proceeded 7:18
47:1 24:25 26:6,17 27:1,6 28:5 30:11 produce 23:23
24:13 28:3,18 30:13 36:6 40:16 persons 49:13 program 19:24 20:16
49:15 50:7 petition 44:25 45:3,11 proper 42:5
26:8 27:17 30:14 35:3 39:16 phrase 28:15 prosecutors 18:20
phrases 28:15 prove 16:8 18:9 25:7 43:21,23,24 45:2
25:16 26:21 27:11 31:3 40:20 potential 7:9 put 15:25 16:2 41:22 46:14
potentially 3:12
28:18 36:22 37:2,18 41:6,7,11 premise 7:17 22:13,13,16,25 23:5,13,17,20,22
49:15 50:7 51:11,13 preponderance 19:6 24:1,12,13,14,16,17,18,20,25 25:11
18:16 21:5,6,10,11,14,23 47:6 pretty 48:12 28:9 29:1,8,12,14,19 30:1,7,9,17,21
40:9 49:21 prisons 11:4 44:23,24 45:8,12,13,15,19 46:11,19
48:4,7,9,16,20,22 49:20 requiring 3:11 39:23 40:25 self-control 32:7 50:5
51:2,7 requisites 3:14 sense 31:4 50:15
50:2 re-offend 27:7 29:24 41:2 46:10 sex 26:4
51:16 rights 18:21 27:5 29:18,24 32:16 33:6 34:2 35:13
30:14 49:11 rule 16:1 show 4:23 10:1 16:10 20:12,13 22:25
37:4 Scalia's 29:19 10:7 12:2,3,6,6,21,25 22:20 34:13
39:24 42:5,7 46:22 47:5,24 suggesting 9:11 thought 5:24 9:12 13:17 18:20 24:1,1
summary 34:15 24:4 25:13 34:18 39:18 41:14 46:21
42:8 43:18 44:12,13,24 45:1 Supreme 1:1,13 3:10,19 5:17 9:18 tie 11:17
51:23 25:6 34:20 35:13,15,18,22 36:9 tied 12:11
12:23 13:22,25 14:23 16:6 take 11:20 12:22 26:7,7,15 39:12 totally 4:15 22:21 50:8,9
23:2 24:23 25:8 26:2 30:14 41:25 42:24 44:19 tough 42:5
33:2 34:2,6,17 35:21 38:3 taken 48:12 touted 42:9
43:1,1,4,25 44:7 45:21,22,24 takes 26:3,9 toward 47:23
taking 49:9 trait 26:17
6:2,5,11,14,18 7:20,24 8:2,9 Ted 15:19 true 10:25 23:9 25:20 38:20
9:8,13,18,23 10:7,23 11:15,24 tell 4:22 6:19,21,25 8:15 20:21 31:4 try 47:23
13:3,14,19,22 14:7,11,18 32:17 35:24 trying 7:22 11:21 12:23 15:3 22:6
16:10,12,15,17,19 17:9,16,22 telling 7:10 27:18 29:21 34:12 39:6
18:10,23 19:2,9,11,19 20:3,12 tells 21:10 Tuesday 1:11
21:12 22:1,8,23 23:3,8,18,21 temptation 38:23 two 3:14,16 9:2 23:6 28:24 41:20
24:5,19,22 25:1,16,19,22 26:3 term 25:2,4 31:5 32:8 46:15 47:17
27:3,10,19 28:8,13 29:5 terminology 36:14 type 33:22 49:15
30:4,8,16,18,25 31:7 terms 21:12 23:8 29:2 48:11
25:3 28:14 38:12 41:6,7 44:25 wow 17:24 30:24
write 50:1
32:16 33:6 34:2 35:13 wrote 4:10
6:3,23 8:11,20 9:3 10:5,11 12:3 Y
23:1 24:21,23 25:5,9 28:1 years 19:23
32:9 33:3,17 34:23
36:1 38:15,18 39:1,22,23 0
41:15,24 49:25 50:3,17 00-957 1:5 3:4
17:5 18:1 19:22 24:15 41:4 11:59 52:5
50:19 15 14:2
46:18 2001 1:11
13:21 14:11,15 20:21 24:12 3 2:4 19:23
34:3,12 36:19 38:21 39:18 41:9 30 1:11
43:23 44:23 47:3 48:11,22 31 2:6
333 1:9
29:1 40:16 50:1 51:11 4
48:16 51:12,12 5
