IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X
CITY OF COLUMBUS, ET AL.,
Petitioners
v.
OURS GARAGE AND WRECKER
SERVICE, INC., ET AL.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 23, 2002
The above-entitled matter came for oral argument
before the Supreme Court of the United States at 10:10
a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JEFFREY S. SUTTON, ESQ., Columbus, Ohio; on behalf of the
Petitioners.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Petitioners.
RICHARD A. CORDRAY, ESQ., Grove City, Ohio; on behalf of
the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JEFFREY S. SUTTON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners 17
RICHARD A. CORDRAY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY S. SUTTON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:10 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument
now in No. 01-419, City of Columbus v. Ours Garage and
Wrecker Service, Inc.
Mr. Sutton.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY S. SUTTON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SUTTON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. May
it please the Court:
The question presented in this case is whether
Congress in 1994 divested the States of their traditional
authority to delegate police powers over local safety
matters to their political subdivisions. It would be no
small matter for Congress to impose such a restriction on
the States, and we submit they did no such thing in this
instance.
In making that point, it may be helpful to look
at the text of the statute, which is reprinted in full in
the appendix to our brief, the blue brief. And page A-2
of that appendix specifically repeats the language of
(c)(2)(A), the operative provision at issue here.
And our first point, as a matter of the language
of the statute, is that Congress specifically said that
the preemption provision, quote, "shall not restrict the
safety regulatory authority of a State."
Now, prior to 1994, Ohio, the State of Ohio, had
exercised regulatory authority in this area by delegating
its power specifically over tow truck regulations to local
political subdivisions. It's very difficult for us to
understand how the court of appeals interpretation does
not in fact, quote, "restrict the safety regulatory
authority of a State." That's --
QUESTION: Well, I think the argument on the
other side, Mr. Sutton, is that the first section (a)(1)
does say, no State or political subdivision thereof and no
interstate agency. It talks about a political subdivision
so that when you come down to the section you've just
quoted, and it only says State, there's perhaps a fair
inference that only a State and not a political
subdivision is included.
MR. SUTTON: Yes, Your Honor. And the normal
Russello argument is that a litigant like myself is trying
to read into another provision a term that is specifically
mentioned elsewhere in the statute. Here the suggestion
is that we're trying to read the term, political
subdivision, into (c)(2)(A). That's not what we're trying
to do.
What we're saying is the traditional safety
regulatory authority of a State was preserved by (c)(2)(A)
and traditionally States, including Ohio, had specifically
exercised that authority by delegating it in some
instances to State executive branch agencies and in other
instances, specifically here, to political subdivisions.
QUESTION: Would your argument be the same if
the State had not made a specific delegation? Did it make
a specific delegation with respect to tow trucks?
MR. SUTTON: Actually it did, although it's --
it's backwards, in the sense that they generally regulate
all motor carriers at the State level, but they exempted
tow trucks, therefore allowing political subdivisions like
Columbus to enact their own tow truck ordinances. So, in
fact, in this case it would be specific, although I
wouldn't say our argument rests on that point. Many
States like Ohio are home rule States, which in their
constitutions give general grants to political
subdivisions to have powers of local self-government. So,
in this case, I -- I would say it's a little easier
because there was something specific as to tow trucks, but
I wouldn't say that our argument rests on that point.
QUESTION: Mr. Sutton, would -- would you look a
little further down in, in the provision set forth in the
appendix to your brief? Look on page A-3. You were
reading from (c)(2)(A) --
MR. SUTTON: Yes, Your Honor.
QUESTION: -- in which it says, shall not
restrict the safety regulatory authority of a State. And
you say that includes, you know, political subdivisions of
a State.
MR. SUTTON: No. That it includes the right to
delegate political subdivisions.
QUESTION: All right. Okay. Just read two --
two lines later, (2)(C) where it says, does not apply.
MR. SUTTON: Right.
QUESTION: Again, it uses the same -- shall not
restrict, does not apply to the authority of a State, or a
political subdivision of a State, to enact or enforce a
law, regulation, or other provision. Why in that
provision does it say does not apply to a State or a
political subdivision? Because you're telling us, when
you say State, it includes whatever authority the State
has to delegate to a political subdivision.
MR. SUTTON: We're not saying --
QUESTION: You wouldn't have --
MR. SUTTON: We're not --
QUESTION: -- you wouldn't have needed that
language there.
MR. SUTTON: We're not saying States are
political subdivisions. We're simply saying the
preservation of a State, deregulatory authority of a State
includes the power to delegate.
But as to (c)(2)(C), keep in mind that was a
1995 amendment. That was not part of the original
legislation. So, the suggestion would be that
Congress's --
QUESTION: Well --
MR. SUTTON: -- style in 1995 modified the 1994
act. And no one is arguing --
QUESTION: I think we always look at an act in
toto and -- and don't try to piece it apart as to what was
enacted when. It seems to me we have to make sense of
this statute as a whole.
MR. SUTTON: That's -- that's true, Your Honor.
But I -- in O'Gilve, the Court said specifically that a
later act cannot modify the terms of an earlier act.
But let me -- I think there's another answer
that --
QUESTION: It doesn't modify it, but it -- it
can give clear indication of what -- of what it meant.
mean, you're assuming that it modifies it.
MR. SUTTON: Right. Well, Your Honor, the --
the thing that I think may be helpful in thinking about
(c)(2)(C) and the other mentions of political subdivision
throughout 14501 is they're all in the context of --
context of the enact or enforce language, which is exactly
how (c)(1) reads. (c)(1) says these political bodies may
not enact or enforce these particular laws. That, of
course, is not the way (c)(2)(A) or, for that matter,
(a)(2) -- (a)(2) does exactly the same thing. It
preserves the safety regulatory authority of the State
over these various other provisions elsewhere identified
in title 49.
When it comes to (c)(2)(C), it's dealing with a
topic specifically mentioned in (c)(1), prices. And it
follows the exact same structure of(c)(1), not
surprisingly, because it's dealing with a topic that is
covered in (c)(1).
(c)(2)(A) --
QUESTION: Mr. Sutton, are you making the
distinction there between the safety regulations which
would be covered under (c)(2) and the economic regulation
which would be the main prohibition?
MR. SUTTON: Exactly, Your Honor. And there was
a division of authority, going back to 1966, where the old
ICC had regulated all of the economic issues over motor
carriers, and the Department of Transportation had
regulated all the safety issues. And what happens in 1994
is they're simply deregulating. The ICC is deregulating
this area. They wanted to make sure, as this Court said
in Morales, that States wouldn't undo that particular
deregulatory effort. But at the same time, as (c)(2)(A)
and (a)(2) makes clear, they wanted to preserve the
provisions of a separate part of title 49 dealing with
safety issues, something that DOT, a separate agency, had
always regulated. And I hope, Justice Scalia, this will
help in getting to your -- your point.
QUESTION: There's a --
MR. SUTTON: Oh, I'm sorry.
QUESTION: There's a question I think that still
would be left open even if you prevail; that is, whether
these regulations are appropriately characterized as
economic or safety. You say they're all safety.
MR. SUTTON: Absolutely.
QUESTION: But that hasn't been adjudicated yet.
MR. SUTTON: Absolutely. And -- and if -- if
the court of appeals decision would reverse, it would
certainly be within the rights of respondents to go back
to the Sixth Circuit and say, as to some of these
provisions of the Columbus code, they are not in fact
safety ordinances or safety provisions, and therefore they
could be regulated as a price, route, or service.
But there's another, I think, important point
that responds to this issue of the mention of political
subdivisions elsewhere in 14501. I think there is general
agreement in the case that as to (c)(2)(A), all of the
other words, every single other word in (c)(2)(A)
including, for example, the definition of the term safety,
is defined not from 1994 on by looking at the difference
of -- between safety and price, routes, or services
mentioned in (c)(1) -- in other words, you would not
define safety after 1994 based on its contextual
comparison to prices --
QUESTION: Where -- where exactly is (c)(2)(A)?
MR. SUTTON: Excuse me, Your Honor. It's on
A-2 of our appendix, and it's -- it's labeled motor
carriers of property. Excuse me. I should have made that
more clear.
The point I was trying to make is that these
other terms in (c)(2)(A) I think all would agree would be
defined by other provisions in title 49. For example, the
word safety would be defined by the provisions in chapter
311 of title 49, which is a large -- a large section of
the code dealing with safety provisions. It would not be
within the States' rights after 1994 to suddenly start
reinventing new definitions of safety, new definitions of
hazardous materials routing restrictions or size and
weight routing restrictions. We would be stuck with all
of those definitions, including notably those preemption
provisions. We think it would be a rather odd
interpretation of (c)(2)(A) to say that, yes, you
determine the meaning of all of these preserved matters by
reference to other parts of title 49, but you do not do so
when it comes to what the meaning of safety regulatory
authority of a State is.
And when you look at those other provisions of
title 49, it's quite clear that Congress contemplated in
all of them -- routing restrictions, safety -- that States
could delegate their power to local subdivisions. That's
not only in some of the statutory provisions, but it's in
the regulations.
QUESTION: Well, but it's not defined. It
doesn't -- there's not a definition that says, State
includes political subdivision of a State.
MR. SUTTON: That's not our argument, Your
Honor. We're not saying a State --
QUESTION: I understand it's not your argument.
MR. SUTTON: We're not saying --
QUESTION: It would be a stronger argument if
that were your argument. That -- that's my point.
(Laughter.)
MR. SUTTON: I -- I disagree, Your Honor. We're
not saying that -- Congress -- let me put it this way.
Congress has no right to empower a city. Congress can't
create a city. They can't give it a power. That's a
power the States have. It made perfect sense in (c)(2)(A)
to preserve the safety regulatory authority of a State
because it's the State legislature's job to determine what
other political bodies, if any, regulate in that area.
QUESTION: Well, in that connection, I was going
to ask could this -- suppose that you do not prevail in
this case and we accept the respondents' interpretation.
Could the State then every year have a cleanup statute in
which it says the State hereby adopts -- or authorizes
cities that are no less than X number of persons, no
greater than Y number of persons, obviously referring to
the City of Columbus, that -- that the State then allows
specifically Columbus to regulate, that it have an
ordinance and it just tracks the whole ordinance?
MR. SUTTON: Absolutely, Your Honor. And that
we think --
QUESTION: So, then we're not arguing about very
much in your view.
MR. SUTTON: Well, Your Honor, that would strike
me as an extraordinary hoop for Congress to ask the States
to step through. We're not aware of a single statute that
this Court has ever construed to mean that State
legislatures alone, but not their political subdivisions,
can regulate a particular area. I'm not aware of a single
statute where that's ever happened.
QUESTION: There's a -- there's a problem with
cities when you get to safety regulation for trucks. Can
you give me an example of a safety regulation that a city
might want to have that wouldn't have a negative impact or
some impact on routes?
MR. SUTTON: Right. Excuse me? The last word?
QUESTION: On routes.
MR. SUTTON: Right. The -- and I think the
respondents' point is or suggestion is that it would be
quite natural for Congress to say, as to routing
restrictions, we want uniform laws. We want them to be
the same throughout the State, and we don't want to bother
with municipalities establishing different regulations for
a routing restriction. Well, the -- the whole point of a
routing restriction is to account for differences within
the topography or geography of the States.
QUESTION: Yes, but I mean, there's a long
history in the ICC of trying to create, say, dynamite
truck routes. Well, you can imagine what something like
that does once you start talking about it within the city.
And -- and every neighborhood in sight says, send it
somewhere else. So, it's not illogical that people who
are worried about creating uniformity of routes would say,
keep the cities out of this. It's -- it's a nightmare.
And -- and -- but I have no reason to know
whether this is so or not. And so I ask you, is there any
kind of safety regulation that doesn't get into that kind
of routing nightmare when you talk about cities?
MR. SUTTON: Well, hazardous -- I -- I don't
think the general rule has been that either the Federal
Government or the States have been concerned about heavily
populated regions deciding, for example, to route
hazardous materials around their beltway as opposed to
through the middle. Everyone thinks that's a good idea,
and the cities generally, including Columbus, have been
left in control of that kind of decision, which is
something obviously one doesn't need to worry about --
QUESTION: But I'm looking for specifically --
MR. SUTTON: In a size and weight situation, of
course, you're going to situations where bridges or
particular roads in, you know, densely populated areas
require different rules than in rural regions of a State
where, for example, the roads are bigger and even if
they're not bigger, they're not as near to either
businesses or heavily populated areas.
QUESTION: How about a restriction that on a
particular residential street that's, nonetheless, an
arterial highway, no trucks over 10 tons?
MR. SUTTON: Could -- could a -- a -- the
question, first of all, would be whether that relates to
interstate commerce, and if it relates to interstate
commerce -- that is, commerce between States -- then the
Department of Transportation is -- is going to very
heavily regulate that particular route restriction and --
and has authority to preempt it, even as a matter of
regulation. If it's purely intrastate, traditionally
that's been something that Congress or the agencies hardly
regulated at all, and to the extent they regulated them,
it was only when there was Federal funding. But for the
most part, the regime has been that a locality makes that
decision through a delegation of power from their State
legislature.
QUESTION: Mr. Sutton, can I ask you, do you
regard -- just assume the -- assume the other side is
right on their interpretation. Would that mean that a
city could not fix speed limits in neighborhoods? Speed
limit is a safety regulation, isn't it?
MR. SUTTON: It is, Your Honor, but title 49 --
I think it's 31147 -- specifically says that traffic laws
-- I think a speeding limit would fall under that --
QUESTION: It would be a traffic law?
MR. SUTTON: -- is something that the Department
of Transportation does not regulate and neither does
Congress, which to me is one more indicator that you
don't, after 1994, start having free-form debates about
what safety means.
QUESTION: But even if the -- if it's not
federally regulated, would there, nevertheless, not be
preemption under their interpretation of this provision of
speed limit rules?
MR. SUTTON: On what ground? I mean, it would
have to be a price, route, or service for there to be
preemption.
QUESTION: No. I mean, if -- if you read the
(c)(2)(A) --
MR. SUTTON: As -- I see what you're saying.
QUESTION: -- as -- as saying only States are --
can -- are -- preserve the right to -- to regulate
safety --
MR. SUTTON: Right.
QUESTION: -- it seems to me that would preempt
a local government's right to fix a 15-mile limit in a
school zone.
MR. SUTTON: I understand what you're saying.
think the position they would take -- and maybe they could
clarify this -- is that if it's not a price, route, or
service, you ignore (c)(2)(A), and you simply go to the
rest of title 49. But I'm not -- I don't know the answer
to that.
If I could make one more point, Justice Scalia,
and I hope this responds somewhat to the point you raised
earlier. State laws, even if you think of them as State
legislative acts, are being preempted in this case. Let's
ignore the State of Ohio. New York. The State of New
York says as to populations with more than 1 million
people, the cities in -- those populations can enact tow
truck ordinances. This interpretation that the court of
appeals embraced preempts that State law. There's no --
strictly speaking, there's no such thing as a city law
divorced from a State law. The city power comes from the
States and there's just no such thing. And we think, as
the lack of parallelism between (c)(1) and (c)(2)
indicates, all they were doing was preserving that
traditional safety regulatory authority of a State.
If I could save the rest of my time for
rebuttal, I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Sutton.
Mr. Stewart, we'll hear from you.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The phrase, safety regulatory authority of a
State, in section 14501(c)(2)(A) is most naturally read to
encompass the State's traditional authority to delegate
its powers to political subdivisions. That view is
supported by the larger statutory context in which the
phrase appears and by the purposes of the 1994 act.
As Mr. Sutton has explained and as this Court
has frequently recognized, one integral component of the
State's ability to regulate within its borders is to
delegate as much or as little power as it wishes to
subordinate political units.
QUESTION: We understand all that, of course.
And -- and in isolation, that phrase most naturally would
-- would mean safety regulatory authority of a State,
including, of course, its ability to delegate it to
municipalities.
But what is sticking in our craw is the fact
that elsewhere in the statute, the language is very
careful to distinguish between the authority of a State,
on the one hand, and the -- and the separate authority of
political subdivisions of the State. Now, what -- what is
your explanation for those other separations?
MR. STEWART: I guess there are about three
responses we would make.
The first is, as Mr. Sutton points out, this is
not a case in which the other provisions are identical but
for the inclusion of the word political subdivision. For
instance, in subsection (c)(2)(C), which is at the -- the
top of A-3 of the --
QUESTION: Right.
MR. STEWART: -- petitioners' brief, it refers
to the authority of a State or a political subdivision of
a State to enact or enforce a law. Now, even though
delegating power to municipalities is an integral feature
of the State's regulatory authority, it would certainly be
less than clear that when a municipality enacted or
enforced a law, pursuant to such delegation, it could not
necessarily be said that the State had enacted or enforced
that law.
And so, if the provision left out political
subdivisions and simply said that the preemption rule does
not apply to the authority of a State to enact or enforce
a law, there would be ambiguity, and Congress -- whether
it was necessary or not, Congress might rationally choose
to eliminate that potential ambiguity through an express
reference to political subdivision.
But the phrase that appears in subsection (2)(A)
is simply safety regulatory authority of a State, and
that, as you say, would most naturally be construed to
encompass the authority to delegate power to
municipalities.
The second point is that based on the country's
traditions, it would certainly be an unusual thing for
Congress to interfere with the States' decisions as to the
amount of power that should be delegated to subordinate
political units.
QUESTION: Has there been any -- what's the
closest case respondents could cite to show a contrary
practice?
MR. STEWART: I believe the respondents have
cited a couple of court of appeals cases which have
held --
QUESTION: From this Court?
MR. STEWART: None from this Court. The -- the
respondents have not cited any case in which this Court
has held that any Federal statute had the effect of
divesting a State of its authority to delegate power to
political subdivisions.
QUESTION: Well, there are many Federal statutes
that -- that make grants to municipalities for various
functions and don't make it to the State. This is a --
certainly the Federal Government interfering in the
relationship between the State and its municipalities.
And the State has no -- no ability to veto whether the
municipality is going to accept those funds or not. And
there's -- there's been a lot of controversy within the
States between the municipalities and the State government
as to -- as to what money should be accepted and so forth.
It seems to me that has exactly the same effect as what
you're talking about here. The Federal Government has,
indeed, indeed, intervened in the relationship between the
State and its -- and its political subdivisions.
MR. STEWART: We cited the Lee Deadwood case in
our brief as support for the proposition that Congress
would constitutionally be authorized to preempt municipal
law without preempting State law if it chose. Our only
point is it would be sufficiently unusual that we would
expect Congress to address the matter fairly directly.
QUESTION: Mr. Stewart, would you be able to
give us any examples of municipal safety regulations that
are preempted by this section as it's been interpreted
below?
MR. STEWART: We -- I think that as it's been
interpreted --
QUESTION: As a practical matter?
MR. STEWART: As it's been interpreted below, I
believe the types of regulations that have been held
preempted are -- are fairly similar to the City of
Columbus's regulation, namely, a licensing scheme in which
the vehicle is inspected, the driver is tested to ensure
proficiency in the operation of the vehicle. And those
have been held to be preempted on the ground that they
relate to routes --
QUESTION: So, we're really talking about
licensing schemes.
Is this anything that the State couldn't
undertake to do itself with its State driver's license and
so forth?
MR. STEWART: I -- I think that the licensing
scheme, while we would respect Ohio's decision to delegate
that to municipalities, it -- in truth I think this is
something that could fairly realistically be accomplished
at the State level.
Now, with respect to some of the other matters
that are specified in (c)(2)(A), for instance, route
controls based on size and weight or hazardous nature of
the cargo, because the determination at issue is whether a
particular vehicle or a particular cargo is suitable for a
particular stretch of road, those are the sorts of things
that can't realistically be expected to be done in their
entirety at the State level. And therefore, it would be a
particular disruption of the State's processes --
QUESTION: Mr. Stewart, before your time goes
out, will you give us your third point too? You gave us
the first two.
MR. STEWART: The third point is that to the
extent that the provision at issue here is ambiguous and
the Court wants to interpret it by reference to other
relevant statutory provisions, it is important to examine
the larger statutory context. That is, (c)(2)(A) is not
limited to safety. It specifies these other matters, and
as Mr. Sutton was pointing out, the other matters are
covered in detail in different provisions of title 49. In
general, those other provisions of title 49 contain their
own preemption provisions. They explain at -- at great
length what States can and can't do. At least in the area
of safety, State law is specifically defined to include
the law of the local governmental unit, and so the -- the
safety regime in the other parts of title 49 specifically
contemplates municipal safety regulation. And it would be
odd to think that Congress, in this oblique way, has
superseded that carefully developed statutory framework.
And to put this in larger historical context, to
follow up on Mr. Sutton's point, from 1966 to 1995, at the
Federal level there was division of regulatory authority
between the ICC which did economic regulation and the
Department of Transportation which did safety regulation.
And it's no coincidence that State law as to economic
matters was preempted at about the same time that the ICC
saw its powers diminished and the ICC was eventually
eliminated altogether. This was part of a larger program
of deregulating the economics of commercial trucking.
But --
QUESTION: Who -- who administers this statute?
Is there a Federal agency that -- that can be said to be
administering this -- this statute?
MR. STEWART: There -- there is no Federal
agency entrusted with the administration of this
particular statute. The Department of Transportation
administers the related provisions of title 49 that are
specifically addressed to these matters, and their
implementation of their responsibilities under those
provisions would be affected by this Court's decision in
this case because if there is no municipal safety
regulation at all, that would obviously have an impact on
their administration of the scheme for determining when
municipal regulation is and is not permitted. But they
are not specifically entrusted with authority over this
scheme.
So -- so to return to the point about the
division of responsibilities, Congress eliminated the ICC,
eliminated Federal economic regulation of commercial
trucking, and at the same time it preempted State law in
order to ensure that the States didn't undo the Federal
deregulatory efforts. But there's been no Federal
deregulation in matters of trucking safety. The prior
provisions of title 49 remain on the books.
There's no expression of congressional
discontent with the manner in which power in those areas
has been divided between the Federal, State, and local
governments. To the contrary, the conference report
accompanying the 1994 act refers specifically to those
preexisting provisions and expresses the intent that their
administration continue unchanged.
QUESTION: May I ask this question on the
division of responsibility? Is it your view -- your
understanding that the cities would not be able in their
licensing scheme to regulate the rates that the truckers
charge?
MR. STEWART: That's correct.
If there are no further questions, I have
nothing further.
QUESTION: To what extent, Mr. Stewart, does the
Department of Transportation -- you said there's no
administrator of the statute, but they do have authority
under the motor safety -- motor carrier safety assistance
program that seems to be relevant.
MR. STEWART: The motor carrier safety
assistance program, and they also have authority under
other provisions of title 49 to review and declare to be
preempted State and local laws -- State and local safety
laws that apply to transportation in interstate commerce.
Again, those are not provisions of this particular
statute. They are among the preexisting provisions of
title 49 that were intended to be preserved by subsection
(c)(2)(A).
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Stewart.
Mr. Cordray, we'll hear from you.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD A. CORDRAY
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
QUESTION: Mr. Cordray, I hope you'll tell us
the practical effects of the decision below.
MR. CORDRAY: The practical effect of the
decision below, as you uncovered it in your questioning
earlier, is that Federal law preempts municipalities and
other local governments from imposing their own individual
licensing schemes upon motor carriers of property and that
is --
QUESTION: Well, it also speaks to routes or
weight limitations. Are there situations where the city
or town is particularly aware of traffic problems within
the city or a weak bridge or something and that its
limitations are needed?
MR. CORDRAY: Size and weight limitations, as
the other matters addressed in (c)(2)(A), would be
regulated at the State level, not at the local level under
the proper reading of this statute. And the reason is
that Congress did not want to open up the trucking
industry, where it was attempting to do something new,
which is deregulate it nationwide and create an unfettered
free market for trucking and transportation services.
QUESTION: So that if a city says no trucks
through the park with the public playground between
certain hours, that has to be the -- the State? That's
the only one that could do that?
MR. CORDRAY: That could be done at the State
level and it could be done either by going to the State
legislature, as you suggested, or it could be done by
setting up a very simple administrative scheme at the
State level where you would go to the State department --
QUESTION: Well, why would --
QUESTION: Well, most cities I've been in had --
QUESTION: -- why would Congress choose to -- to
regulate in that way, say we want the State to do it but
not the locality?
MR. CORDRAY: Specifically because they were
trying to deregulate this market nationwide. To leave in
place every municipality with the option to license
different motor carriers of property is not only --
QUESTION: No. I'm not talking about licensing.
I'm talking about the -- the example of, say, that no
trucks over 10 tons on this particular road.
MR. CORDRAY: Again, I think that petitioners
agree and all the courts have agreed that every subsection
of (c)(2)(A) has to be read together, and to the extent
municipal authority is being preempted in one respect,
it's being preempted in all. And the reason is that
Congress was recognizing that schemes directed
specifically to motor carriers of property at the local
level simply incorporated too much regulation that would
interfere with and impede a free market for transportation
services and motor carriers --
QUESTION: May I ask a similar question?
Supposing that there's a heavy rain storm in a city or
something and it becomes unsafe to use a certain street if
the truck is over a certain size. Could -- the police
would not be permitted to divert the traffic around that
particular flooded area, I suppose.
MR. CORDRAY: Certainly they could. This goes
to your question you asked earlier which is whether
traffic laws, ordinary, general traffic laws, would be
preempted under our --
QUESTION: No. This is for safety reasons.
MR. CORDRAY: -- statute --
QUESTION: They figure it's -- it's dangerous
because the thing is too deep and the trucks have to over-
set -- overturn or something like that.
MR. CORDRAY: They -- they would be -- they
would be diverting --
QUESTION: It would be preempted, I guess.
MR. CORDRAY: They would be -- no. They would
be diverting presumably all traffic that's heavy enough to
create a safety problem.
QUESTION: Supposing -- truck size traffic, yes.
MR. CORDRAY: Yes, but -- but it's not directed
simply to motor carriers of property. It's directed to
all trucks, all oversize vehicles. It could be private
vehicles, RVs that people use to take vacations, whatever
it might be. That would be permissible.
And traffic laws, I want to stress, are not
preempted by this statute. This statute is not limitless.
As this Court has --
QUESTION: Well, then what about the -- the
answer that you gave earlier to the question that the
Chief Justice and I had? No -- no trucks through the
playground or -- or through a residential neighborhood at
a certain time. I thought you said that would be
preempted, but now you're saying it applies only if
they're motor carriers of property?
MR. CORDRAY: Let me step back. If the
ordinance related to all oversize vehicles -- that would
be a general traffic regulation -- that would be
permissible. And I'll -- and I'll get to that in a
moment, why traffic laws are not preempted by the statute.
They -- they are not related to price, route, or service
of motor carriers of property.
If it was directed specifically to a type of
motor carrier of property, as this licensing scheme is --
it applies directly, specifically, and only to tow trucks
-- that would be a different matter. Municipalities are
not permitted to do that, and Congress specifically wanted
to do that because although there was a tradition of lots
of regulation at the State and local level, Congress was
making a policy decision, as it's free to do, to say that
all of that is impeding a free market for transportation
services and motor carriers that's affecting broad
segments of the American economy. We want to bring down
costs, rid us of these inefficiencies --
QUESTION: I understand that, but I'm at the
same question that I think everyone has asked. In my mind
-- and I might be misremembering -- there are lots of
streets -- there used to be in San Francisco and you'd see
a sign, and it would say, no trucks over 3-and-a-half
tons. And it seems to me in Boston I can think of seeing
signs. I thought maybe they said, no trucks over such and
such. Maybe they just say no vehicle over such and such.
And my impression is that in many cities there are many
such streets, and which streets there are is a matter for
the municipality to decide. And it's a shifting pattern,
and typically it's in residential areas. And there's lots
of local regulation of that kind. That's my impression.
And I want to know, on your reading of this
statute, does this change when I'm thinking of those signs
on one street after another? Does that all change because
they're preempted, and now each neighborhood has to go to
Sacramento, if they're in California, and convince the --
the legislature? I'd be very surprised if that is so,
that Congress changed so well established a municipal
pattern of behavior without saying anything about it. And
therefore, I think everyone is driving at the same
question. I understand about all the licensing stuff, but
I want to know the answer to that question.
MR. CORDRAY: All right. Again, it's not what's
specifically at issue in this case, but I understand the
Court wants the answer to the hypothetical. Absolutely.
QUESTION: It has nothing to do with this case.
I'm saying when your -- accept the fact that if I accept
your position in this case --
MR. CORDRAY: Yes.
QUESTION: -- at the moment I'm thinking all
this traditional regulation of what street you can use if
you're a truck is being wiped out. I mean, that's
relevant.
MR. CORDRAY: It could be dealt with either of
two ways, Your Honor. Either it could be regarded as a
general traffic law, like a one-way street, like a speed
limit, and the like, in which case we believe that it
would not come within the preemption clause ex ante
because it has to have a connection with or reference to
motor carriers of property to come within the terms of
this preemption clause --
QUESTION: Motor carriers of property or just
motor carriers?
MR. CORDRAY: Motor carriers of property which
is what --
QUESTION: In other words, if they -- if they
don't say on the street motor carriers of property cannot
use this, then it's not preempted.
MR. CORDRAY: Then it is a general traffic
regulation no different from where the speed limit says 55
miles per hour and trucks have to obey it, just as cars
do. And motor carriers --
QUESTION: Well, does the term, motor carriers
of property -- does that mean motor carriers of property
for hire or any motor carrier that is carrying property?
MR. CORDRAY: Well, it would be those who come
within the terms of this specific preemption clause.
QUESTION: Yes, that's what I want to know.
Which does it mean?
MR. CORDRAY: Yes. I -- I believe that this
statute is referring to for hire carriers of -- motor
carriers of property.
QUESTION: So -- so, if a State were to say all
prices of all trucks in this State have to be $50 -- all
trucks -- and they don't say motor carriers of property,
that's not preempted.
MR. CORDRAY: No, that is not correct because
it's specifically referenced --
QUESTION: Of course, it's not correct. And
similarly, if they say on a street, no truck can use this
street --
MR. CORDRAY: Yes.
QUESTION: -- and they don't say motor carriers
of property, it's the same.
MR. CORDRAY: The reason is -- no. The reason
is that specifically references price. There are lots of
laws that in -- tangentially will affect routes. All
right? A one-way street law, for example, has to be
obeyed by trucks, just as it is by cars. That's not
within this preemption clause. So, that's one way to
address it. All right. And -- and that would be true of
all general traffic laws, just as it's true of all general
tort laws, general tax laws.
QUESTION: Mr. Cordray, on this point, look at
on page A-2, (c)(1), the general rule. It has at the very
end of it the phrase, with respect to the transportation
of property.
MR. CORDRAY: Right.
QUESTION: Where are you reading from?
QUESTION: I'm reading on page A-2, (c)(1), the
general rule from which (c)(2) is -- is an exception. And
the general rule is, except as provided, blah, blah, blah,
blah, no State, political subdivision shall enact any
provision having the force and effect of law related to a
price, route, or service of any motor carrier. And then
there's a lot of other language. And then at the very
end, with respect to the transportation of property. Does
that phrase at the end go all the way back to related to a
price, route, or service with respect to the
transportation of property?
MR. CORDRAY: I believe it does, Your Honor, and
it's just -- it's just --
QUESTION: Well, that would make it a very
narrow provision then, wouldn't it, that -- that we're
excluding the -- the municipalities from?
MR. CORDRAY: I believe it is.
QUESTION: They just couldn't say you're not
allowed to use this street to carry -- to carry moving
goods or --
MR. CORDRAY: This is a key point.
QUESTION: But you're -- you're asking -- you're
asking us to -- to have a very careful grammatically
correct reading of the act, and in your answer that --
that you've just given to Justice Scalia, transportation
of property is preceded by an or. It seems to me the
first clause is quite independent, related to a price,
route, or service of any motor carrier. That's it.
MR. CORDRAY: With --
QUESTION: So, I'm not sure the qualification
you urge on us, in order to mitigate the effects of this
holding works.
QUESTION: Well, I don't know what it would go
to if it didn't go to that. It can't go to the stuff
after the or. Or any motor -- motor private carrier,
broker or freight forwarder with respect to the
transportation of -- what is a -- what is a motor private
carrier with respect to the transportation of -- of
property? It has no meaning unless you read it all the
way back up to price, route, or service with respect to
the transportation --
MR. CORDRAY: And the title of the provision is
motor carriers of property. That's specifically what
they're dealing with, as distinguished from motor carriers
of passengers, which are addressed earlier in the same
section of the statute, 14501(a).
QUESTION: It's not the best statute, is it?
MR. CORDRAY: I beg your pardon?
QUESTION: It's not the best statute.
(Laughter.)
MR. CORDRAY: It's -- it's clear enough with
respect to the things we care about here, which is that --
QUESTION: Well, but I don't think it is.
MR. CORDRAY: -- Congress very carefully
attempted to distinguish between a State and a political
subdivision of a State. And it did so repeatedly in the
statute for the specific purpose of drawing a distinction
between them. And the only way --
QUESTION: There's not a word of legislative
history I take it --
QUESTION: If you read (c)(1) as narrowly as
you're suggesting, you don't even need the exemption
because it only relates to law, regulation, or other
provision related to price, route, or service. So -- and
it doesn't even reach safety.
MR. CORDRAY: No, that's not true, Your Honor.
And this case is a good example of it. They are
attempting to impose a licensing scheme with respect to
tow trucks and could do it with respect to any motor
carrier of property, parcel delivery service, or the like.
And their -- their rationale for doing so apparently is
safety. But in fact, that is exactly what is preempted by
this statute and by this clause.
QUESTION: But, Mr. Cordray, that's open. Mr.
Sutton said that that question whether these regulations
are genuine safety regulations or, on the other hand,
economic is not determined by this case. Here the
question is whatever is safety, may the State delegate
that authority to the municipalities.
I did want to get your response to a question
Justice Kennedy asked Mr. -- and it was answered for you
by Mr. Sutton. Suppose the State says, okay, we do
business by dealing with municipalities. So, we will
simply take the municipal regulation of Toledo and the
municipal regulation of Columbus, and we'll put it all
together in one package. It will say, State regulation of
safety, and -- and we'll preserve everything. Would that
be permissible under your reading of this Federal statute?
MR. CORDRAY: Yes, it would, Your Honor. It
would. If the State is doing the regulating or enacting
the law, under this statute, the way it reads and the --
the way it was designed, that would be permissible, even
if it's nonuniform. If we wanted to make it uniform, we'd
have to go to the legislature and try to get that package
amended or go perhaps to the State department of
transportation which also could do this through an
administrative scheme.
QUESTION: So, it's strictly a question of form
that we're dealing with, that States, you can delegate to
your cities, as you always have, just say, cities, what do
you want and we'll give it to you by enacting a State law.
MR. CORDRAY: No. It's not simply a matter of
form because Congress made a judgment that if there were
50 different States imposing their own schemes, that would
be less impediments and -- and tangle of restrictions
impeding a free market than if 39,000 municipalities and
local governments around the country were free on their
own to do what they wished, and that that -- that was in
fact very much undercutting the desire to get to a free
market in transportation services.
But I also want to go back to your comment and
your question earlier. This statute does not itself
distinguish between economic regulation that's preempted
on the one hand and safety regulation that's not on the
other. The phrasing of the statute is much broader. It
is related to price, route, and services of a motor
carrier of property. That may not only be economic
regulation. And so the notion that that's the divide and
we can simply remand, the lower court can sort it out, I
believe is not correct.
Now, as we've seen here, the fact that the --
the statute is broad does not mean it's all encompassing.
I mean, I could see an argument that truck -- trucking
companies no longer now have to pay corporate tax because
that affects their price. But that's a general provision.
As this Court has said in construing ERISA and needs to be
imported here in the Dillingham case and the like, there
has to be a connection with or reference to the specific
item at issue. Here motor carriers of property. And
that's what we have with this licensing scheme here which
is directed specifically at tow trucks and will have a
very direct relation and -- and effect on their prices and
services.
I also want to mention the problem of surplusage
because it's not been mentioned on the other side, and
it's very important here. What possible reason would
Congress have had for including in the statute what
obviously is a key phrase? It shows up seven times in the
course of the single statute. Political subdivision of a
State. Why would that be included at all if the authority
of a State is to be read, as petitioners would have it, to
always include within it the authority of a political
subdivision.
QUESTION: Their -- their answer is that -- that
when you speak of the regulatory authority of a State,
that naturally connotes the authority to -- to delegate
that to -- to municipalities. But when you speak of the
authority of a State to enact or enforce a law, that --
that much less naturally includes the authority of a
municipality to enact or enforce a law so that -- and all
of those other references are in connection with that
phrase, to enact or enforce a law. Are they not?
MR. CORDRAY: Two reasons why that does not
work, Your Honor. They agreed that the subsections of
(c)(2)(A) have to be read in parallel and the second one
with respect to size and weight and the like. It doesn't
say anything about regulatory authority. It just says
authority of a State.
Second, in the preemption clause itself --
QUESTION: Wait, wait. I --I missed that.
MR. CORDRAY: Well, regulatory authority is the
phrase used in the first subclause --
QUESTION: Right.
MR. CORDRAY: -- of (c)(2)(A) related to safety.
QUESTION: Yes.
MR. CORDRAY: But they're not talking about
authority to regulate. They're just talking about
authority of a State with respect to the size and weight,
hazardous cargo, and then with respect to insurance. And
insurance is an excellent example I'll get to in a moment.
But also in the preemption clause itself,
(c)(1), it refers to the authority of a State to enact or
enforce a law or regulation. That is regulatory
authority, and it distinguishes it full stop from the
authority of a political subdivision of a State to do the
same thing. What? Enact or enforce a regulation. So,
the regulatory authority is being discussed specifically
in the preemption clause itself.
That's the fallacy of starting the analysis here
by jumping all the way to (c)(2)(A) and wrenching that
text out of context and divorcing it from the preemption
clause that it's meant to be a savings subordinate to.
But the preemption clause itself --
QUESTION: No, but (c)(1) uses may enact or
enforce just as -- as (c)(2)(C) does, whereas (c)(2)(A)
does not. The to enact or enforce language applies in
every subsection except the one that we're arguing about.
MR. CORDRAY: That's correct, which is a telling
point. In every subsection, Congress went out of its way
to add political subdivision of a State. I've still not
heard a single sensible explanation for why they would
bother to do that.
QUESTION: Well, if -- but if you didn't add the
political subdivision in those States and if you had a
home rule State, then a local government could -- would
not be affected by it.
MR. CORDRAY: No, not correct because their
notion is that State includes delegating to its local
government as a delegated power from the State. They want
to read the two as being encompassed within one another.
QUESTION: When you described the regulatory --
regulatory authority in gross as you do in (2)(A), then it
would apply to the authority to delegate. But when you're
talking about authority to enact or enforce, then you have
to identify the entities that do the enacting and the
enforcing. It seems to me that's a perfectly logical
distinction.
MR. CORDRAY: Well, I don't believe it is, Your
Honor. And again, there's nothing about regulatory
authority that is unique in this statute because (c)(2)(A)
does refer to regulatory authority with respect to safety,
but it doesn't refer to regulatory authority with
respect --
QUESTION: Well, don't you agree that if you
didn't have all the other subdivisions in here, that would
be the normal reading of regulatory authority, which would
include the authority to delegate?
MR. CORDRAY: I would agree that if (c)(2)(A)
alone were the statute --
QUESTION: Correct.
MR. CORDRAY: -- that would be a sensible
reading. But if you -- that -- that's taking it out of a
context where Congress specifically is dealing with a
State and a political subdivision regularly in the statute
and then in one instance a special kind --
QUESTION: Yes, but in one -- but in one
provision, they say regulatory authority, which has a
plain meaning that you'd be -- brings a result you
disagree with. In the other they consistently use
authority of a State or a political subdivision to enact
or enforce.
MR. CORDRAY: But it doesn't --
QUESTION: If you don't refer to political
subdivision, it just wouldn't include it.
MR. CORDRAY: It doesn't have a plain meaning.
It doesn't really have any meaning because in the
preemption clause itself, they're referring to the
authority of a State to regulate, and they're separately
referring to the authority of --
QUESTION: No. It says a State or a political
subdivision may not enact or enforce. That's the language
of the preemption clause.
MR. CORDRAY: Correct. That's right. Enact or
enforce what? A regulation, which is the same thing as to
regulate.
QUESTION: (c)(2)(A) at the bottom of page A-2
in the same sentence uses this shall not restrict the
safety regulatory a State -- authority of a State with
respect -- or the authority of a State. They don't use
the adjective regulatory even in the second clause.
MR. CORDRAY: That was my point. I was trying
to make it earlier. I -- I didn't make it as clearly as
you just did. But that's exactly --
QUESTION: Well, obviously, I -- I missed it, so
say it again.
(Laughter.)
MR. CORDRAY: Well, that's exactly right.
Trying to give some special meaning --
QUESTION: Where? What -- what section are you
talking about?
MR. CORDRAY: We're talking about (c)(2)(A).
QUESTION: At the bottom of page A-2.
MR. CORDRAY: This is a point I tried to make
earlier and I did not make it as clearly as the Chief
Justice just did.
QUESTION: I didn't get it.
MR. CORDRAY: But they're attempting to give
some special meaning to the phrase safety regulatory
authority, but by their own argument, that can't follow
because they want to -- they have to read all these
provisions the same way. And the second subclause there
refers --
QUESTION: The authority of a State.
MR. CORDRAY: -- to the authority of a State,
nothing about safety, nothing about regulatory, and has to
be read in the same fashion.
I would also point out that the third subclause
there, which relates to insurance requirements, they would
be saying that municipalities are free to impose their own
insurance requirements upon motor carriers of property.
So, FedEx, UPS in different municipalities would have to
meet different insurance requirements. They'd have to do
different kinds of filings and have very different kinds
of --
QUESTION: You're too fast for me. Where is the
insurance requirement?
QUESTION: At the very end of that provision.
MR. CORDRAY: It's the third subclause in
(2)(A).
QUESTION: (2)(A).
QUESTION: Oh, in -- in (2)(A), okay.
MR. CORDRAY: And that is completely at odds
with the statute because in 14504, which this Court is
going to take up in a case called Yellow Freight next
term, it says specifically there -- Congress said even 50
registrations by motor carriers of property in different
States for insurance purposes is too many for our taste.
We think there should only be one, and they said the
single State --
QUESTION: Well, what about the middle one?
What about the middle one? It says, the authority of a
State to impose highway limitations.
MR. CORDRAY: Yes.
QUESTION: Now, I can't figure out, for the life
of me, how -- why Congress would have wanted to say the
State can impose limitations on the use of highways, but
the city cannot impose limitations on the use of streets.
But your reading would lead to that.
MR. CORDRAY: That would be one respect, Your
Honor, in which either -- if it was a general traffic
regulation, then it would not be preempted at all. Or if
it were preempted, it would have to be done at the State
level and it could be done by the --
QUESTION: I thought part of your argument was
also that streets are not highways, and I'm surprised you
didn't make that point when we were talking about the --
you know, no trucks on a school street or something like
that. Isn't the term highways arguably different from --
from local residential neighborhood streets?
MR. CORDRAY: Arguably it could be, but I
believe for purposes of title 49, it's a defined term to
include streets. But our point there was that it's
perfectly sensible for Congress to say that the States
shall deal with these issues, but not the municipality.
QUESTION: And you found not a word -- am I
right? There is not a word in the history of this --
although there was some human being who wrote these words,
there is not a word in any document, hearing, report,
debate that casts any light on this one way or the other.
MR. CORDRAY: One way or the other. But again,
traffic regulations --
QUESTION: Is that right?
MR. CORDRAY: -- generally are not within the
preemption clause.
QUESTION: No, no. I'm just trying to -- it's
mysterious to me.
MR. CORDRAY: Yes. The legislative history
here --
QUESTION: And I'm having trouble, and therefore
I -- I just sometimes look at the legislative history --
MR. CORDRAY: Yes, I understand.
QUESTION: -- to try to figure it out. And you
haven't found anything, nor does the other --
MR. CORDRAY: The legislative history here is
confused and somewhat unilluminating.
QUESTION: I guess we'll have to use the
statute.
(Laughter.)
QUESTION: Mr. Cordray, is there -- is there an
example -- any other example of a Federal statute -- I
mean, it is unusual to say, States, you can no longer
decide how your authority is going to be exercised. An
ordinary mode of a State exercising its authority is to
delegate it to localities. Apart from this statute, is
there any other Federal statute that says, State, you may
do it but you may not delegate it to a regional or local
or municipal unit?
MR. CORDRAY: There are two responses to that
question. The first is the example that was already given
which is when the Federal Government puts a grant to a
municipality full stop and doesn't allow the State to
control the use of that grant, that's an example like
this.
But the other point I would make is throughout
its history, Congress has --
QUESTION: Well, that's a State -- that's --
that's --
MR. CORDRAY: May I --
QUESTION: -- Congress giving money to a
municipality. I asked an instance in which Congress says,
State, you may do it but you, State, may not delegate.
MR. CORDRAY: I know of none, but this is a new
departure for Congress. They have always taken free
markets and sought to regulate them. Here they're taking
a market they had regulated and the States and localities
had regulated and they're now trying to deregulate it.
That's a new development and it calls for new measures.
And the measure here was to try to clear away all this
underbrush of -- of State and local restriction --
QUESTION: Since it was -- since you say it's
singular and this is new, wouldn't you expect Congress to
make a clear statement that the State may not delegate
this authority because --
MR. CORDRAY: Congress did make a clear
statement by including the term, political subdivision,
whenever it wanted political subdivisions to either have
authority or be restricted in that authority, and then
specifically speaking only to States here. There could
not be a clearer statement of that. Why else ever use the
term, political subdivision? That is unexplained.
QUESTION: And the State may not delegate this
authority to a political subdivision. Just as simple as
that, to negate what has been the assumption all along.
MR. CORDRAY: They could have used the term
State everywhere alone and then said, State but not
political subdivision, here. Or they could this term,
State and political subdivision, everywhere and omit the
term, political subdivision, here. Those are the same
meaning and they're the same purpose.
And again, canons of construction have been
denigrated in this case, but they have to do with the
natural and ordinary reading of statutes. The baseline
that Congress uses to draft laws in some confidence that
the executive branch and the courts will interpret them as
Congress meant them, and that's exactly what's --
QUESTION: The executive branch. Now, you -- I
know you have said, and I quite agree, that the Department
of Transportation has no supervisory authority, it has no
Chevron deference. But doesn't it deserve some respect
from the courts simply because it has familiarity with the
area of motor carrier regulation that the courts don't?
MR. CORDRAY: That's a -- that's a statement I
couldn't disagree with more strongly. The Solicitor
General here has conceded they have no authority to
administer this statute. The notion that you have a --
QUESTION: They've not conceded the Department
of Transportation -- you -- deserves no respect.
MR. CORDRAY: The -- the notion that a
deregulatory statute that took governmental entities out
of an area to create a free market would now be subject to
umpiring by the Federal agency, in terms of the scope of
preemption, which is an issue this Court has always said
is for the courts to determine --
QUESTION: I didn't say umpiring. I said its
views on the proper construction of this statute. What
weight, if any, should this Court give to the Department
of Transportation's view, this is what the statute means?
Not as an umpire, not as a referee.
MR. CORDRAY: Their construction is to leave
them as an umpire. But I would say certainly not Chevron
deference. At most some sort of Skidmore respect, but
that's only entitled where there's some sort of reason to
think that before they got to their litigation position
here, which has migrated in the course of this case -- it
started off as an argument about repeal by implication.
It's now turned into argument about sort of reading
statutes together to import them into this statute -- is
entitled to really, I think, no respect here because it is
not persuasive. They have not analyzed the statute in
detail --
QUESTION: Well, if -- if you lose, you know --
MR. CORDRAY: -- in any of their prior --
QUESTION: If you're changing your argument --
you know, if you lost in the lower court, you'd probably
be well advised to change your argument.
(Laughter.)
MR. CORDRAY: I wouldn't disagree with that,
Your Honor. But again --
QUESTION: Mr. Cordray, what -- what about the
point made that if -- if you accept your interpretation,
municipalities not only would not be able to enact
regulations themselves, they would not be able to enforce
regulations adopted by the -- by the State, which would be
a great inconvenience, that the only enforcement can be by
the State police and not by local -- local police.
MR. CORDRAY: We agree, but that's not what this
preemption clause is about or any preemption clause is
ever about. When they say enact or enforce here, they
don't use it in the terms of making law and executing the
law. They use it in the -- in the sense of enacting new
law or applying -- or enforcing and applying preexisting
law.
And the point of this preemption clause is to
say that municipalities do not have the authority to act
in this realm by imposing their own public policies. It's
a matter of either new law or preexisting law. That's the
structure of many of these preemption statutes the Court
has dealt with.
QUESTION: If we think this statute is -- that
there are arguments either way for interpreting it,
shouldn't we pay heed to the petitioners' point that it's
a very serious matter for the Congress of the United
States to tell States how they should govern themselves?
MR. CORDRAY: We think the language of the
statute is clear here, Your Honor. They explicitly
extinguished the power of the municipality --
QUESTION: Let's -- let's say we -- we disagree
with that. Is -- is that not -- let's say we find the
statute in -- in equipoise, or the arguments. Should we
not give force to the argument petitioner makes that the
States should be presumed to have the authority to
determine how best to govern themselves?
MR. CORDRAY: No. There's no substantive Tenth
Amendment issue here. There's no commandeering of States
or local governments to enact some sort of program. This
is the same as the Court in Wolens where they said this
statute must be read to say the State cannot legislate in
this area, but they can enforce contracts through their
courts. There's no Tenth Amendment problem with that.
That's Congress exercising its power under the Supremacy
Clause, anything in the laws or constitution of the States
notwithstanding.
And as the Solicitor General said in the brief
in the Mortier case, the notion that when Congress decided
that there could be State regulation but they had to
preempt local regulation, that they would somehow have to
be forced to preempt State regulation as well, simply
turns the Tenth Amendment on its head. So, we don't think
that there's any -- any serious constitutional issue here.
QUESTION: It seems to me your argument boils
down to the point that there are 10 provisions in the
statute. Nine of them are perfectly clear. The tenth
says the same thing, but we're not going to read it the
way it seems to read because it's not as clear as the
other nine.
MR. CORDRAY: No, that's not what it boils down.
QUESTION: That's about all it amounts to.
MR. CORDRAY: It boils down to the fact that
Congress deliberately inserted a phrase here, political
subdivision of a State, so that it can preempt --
QUESTION: In the -- in the nine, right.
MR. CORDRAY: And -- and it --
QUESTION: If you just read the one all by
itself, it's perfectly clear too.
MR. CORDRAY: Well, it's -- it is clear, I
believe, because it's clear because they said a State
cannot -- a political subdivision cannot --
QUESTION: But the only reason --
MR. CORDRAY: -- and they state the authority of
a State to do certain things.
QUESTION: The only support you have is they're
not as detailed and specific in the one in question as
they are in the other nine.
MR. CORDRAY: No. I think it is equally
detailed and specific. And -- and there's no rationale
for Congress legislating in this way or drafting this
language or enacting it unless they intended to make a
difference. That's -- that's the whole purpose of
including that language.
QUESTION: Your support is the context of the
statute, which --
MR. CORDRAY: No. Text and context. Text and
context. That's correct.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Cordray.
Mr. Sutton, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY S. SUTTON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SUTTON: I'd like to respond to a few of the
points --
QUESTION: Mr. Sutton, could you ask one --
answer one factual question for me? Your -- your brother
made the argument that in -- in reading (c)(2)(A), he went
to the last clause and said on your theory every political
subdivision could enact its own financial responsibility
and insurance laws and so on.
MR. SUTTON: Yes.
QUESTION: And that would be a crazy scheme. My
-- my question is, is there in fact any history of
municipalities enacting these kinds of statutes so that
it's something that might have been in Congress's mind?
MR. SUTTON: No, Your Honor, not in -- in the
insurance area. But there's a -- I think a better answer
to that concern, and the better answer is, our point is
that (c)(2)(A) incorporates all of these preexisting
preemption provisions. They are preemption provisions in
other parts of title 49, whether it's insurance, safety,
size and weight routing, or hazardous material routing.
So, the problem with Justice O'Connor's point of
practical consequences -- in reversing the Sixth Circuit,
there is no gap here. Why? Because for 60 years,
Congress and the Department of Transportation have been
regulating these very areas, both with respect to State
laws and city laws, to the extent they've been enacted.
So, the multiplicity of insurance regulations is a false
concern. I mean, the -- Congress has already indicated in
31138 and 39 what the rules are there. The Department of
Transportation has implemented regulations that do get
Chevron deference, and they lay out what the rules are.
QUESTION: The same problem, you didn't, is --
to me anyway, is -- is (3)(A). Do you see what I'm
thinking? I mean, the same human being at the same time
wrote the words in -- in (c)(2)(A) and he used the word
State, and at precisely the same time, he wrote the second
exception, which is (3)(A) --
MR. SUTTON: Right.
QUESTION: -- and he put in political
subdivision. And what I cannot get over is I don't see
how a single human being on the same day at the same time
could write two exceptions, use the word "State" in one
and use the word "political subdivision" in the other,
without meaning a difference.
MR. SUTTON: Right. Your Honor, look -- compare
(3)(A) to (c)(1). They follow the exact same enact or
enforce language. (c)(2)(A) does not use the enact or
enforce language.
QUESTION: That's the answer.
MR. SUTTON: That's the answer, number one.
Number two, remember, (c)(3) is for the benefit
of motor carriers. They want to make sure they could have
these rules, whether city or State, apply to them on a
city-by-city not State-by-State basis.
Now, the -- the regulatory purpose, Your Honor
-- the landmark legislation in this area was the 1980 law
that deregulated interstate commerce. Everyone agrees
that did not divest cities of authority.
The 1994 law at issue here was about intrastate
commerce, primarily to put FedEx and UPS on a level
playing field, and suddenly respondents are saying that
deregulated -- regulatory purpose required the divestment
of local authority?
QUESTION: Well, what's -- what's Congress's
authority to regulate intrastate commerce?
MR. SUTTON: It's at its outer edges, and that
to me is what is so odd about this particular
interpretation. They're saying in the intrastate area,
you could divest States of their authority to delegate,
but they've not done it in the interstate area? I mean,
how absurd is that? It's -- it's got it exactly
backwards.
Now, the practical consequences -- I want to go
back to again -- of their interpretation. (c)(2)(A),
they've agreed, has to be construed the same way
throughout, and there are countless -- as we indicated in
our opening brief, every State in the country has
delegations to cities that have size and weight controls,
size and weight rules that would be eliminated by this
particular construction.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Sutton.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:10 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
15:24 18:20 21:2 22:1 ambiguous 22:24 28:3 37:10 39:21,23 40:1,2,4,5,13
24:17 27:22,23 29:15 31:11 amended 38:1 40:14,17,23,24 41:3,5,6,8 42:8,9,10
36:8 40:13,22,23 41:18 42:10 amendment 7:3 53:15,20 54:4 42:16,17,18,22,23 43:8,11,19,20
44:16,17 45:6,6 46:6,7,22 American 30:14 44:4,5,25 45:4,5 46:7 48:8,9 49:14
52:5,13,14 54:13 58:2,10 amicus 1:19 2:7 17:20 49:18,18,23 50:14,20 52:20 53:12
47:11 50:6 52:4 58:17 arguing 7:8 12:16 41:18 between 8:15 10:4 15:1 17:11 18:16
53:11 54:6 55:17,23 blah 34:9,9,9,10
cited 20:8,12 21:5 construction 50:6 51:6,10 58:23
41:2,9,13,14 43:18,23 44:6 continue 25:6
8:1,1,3,8,8,9,12,13,16 9:1,25 clear 7:19 9:2 10:12 11:6 19:8 36:7 control 14:10 48:18
11:25 16:9,21 17:11 49:9,13,15 53:6 54:8,10,20,21,22 controls 22:13 58:21
18:25,25 22:12 23:2 26:3,22 clearer 49:20 controversy 20:23
34:2,7,8 36:17 40:11,20 41:3 clearly 44:8,20 convince 31:8
42:16,24 44:2,17 closest 20:5 Cordray 1:21 2:8 26:5,6,8,10,21 27:8
56:10 57:3,14,15,19 58:17 code 9:19 10:18 27:18,25 28:16,21,25 29:3,7,22
37:1 38:23 50:17 commercial 23:24 24:19 correct 25:12 33:9,11 35:5 39:1
29:8,21 30:3,13 32:7,9,10,11 compare 57:13 costs 30:15
33:3,4,7,15 35:24,25 comparison 10:7 countless 58:19
45:11 46:2 57:20 completely 45:23 country 38:13 58:20
20:5,12 21:5 24:11 31:16,18 conference 25:3 court 1:1,12 3:10 4:6 7:14 8:24 9:16
32:4 36:23 37:8 39:8 45:25 confidence 50:9 12:21 17:6,22 18:4 20:8,10,11,12
51:15 53:25 59:1,2 confused 48:1 22:25 29:14 31:17 38:25 39:7 45:24
41:20 43:4 46:1,11 47:4 48:21,25 craw 18:14
43:4 diminished 23:22 embraced 17:7
30:11 distinction 8:15 36:13 42:13 56:5
19:22 20:14 22:7 37:9 38:5 divide 38:24 enforcing 42:12 52:17
42:9,23 48:10,12 49:2,13,22 divided 25:2 enough 29:4 36:7
division 8:19 23:17 24:18 25:8 ensure 21:22 24:21
25:16 27:12 38:1 50:13,22 51:7 drawing 36:13 establishing 13:12
driver 21:22 ET 1:3,7
38:10 45:12,13,14,14 46:2,24 eliminate 19:17 Excuse 10:9,11 13:5
39:2 54:14 56:4 28:18 29:24 32:3,16 33:24,24,25 holding 35:13
24:2,4,19,21,22 25:2 26:12 goes 22:20 28:16
48:6,11,16 51:2 going 8:19 12:4 14:14 15:2 20:22 27:9 I
40:18 48:15 grammatically 35:4 impede 28:8
49:16 55:10 kind 14:1,1,10 31:3 43:6 limitless 29:13
56:1,8,12,20 21:8,8 23:9,10,20 24:20 26:12 32:3 lot 20:23 34:13
17:6 52:6 58:11,17 lead 46:14 18:21 20:17,18 34:20 37:24 44:8,8
left 9:10 14:10 19:12 making 3:18 8:14 30:11 52:15
53:15 54:5 58:2 legislature 15:11 27:10 31:9 37:25 49:6 51:1
33:21,24 34:19,19,24 35:6 licensing 21:21 22:2,6 25:10 26:14 49:2,2,13,22
40:13,23 41:16 43:15 44:9,21 27:22 30:5 31:13 36:24 39:11 maybe 16:19 30:22,23
49:23 54:19 life 46:10 mean 7:20 12:21 13:16 15:14 16:5,8
35:6 37:12 44:21 56:14 58:25 like 4:18 5:11,15 13:18 28:24 32:3,3 56:21 57:2 58:13
37:1 39:8 40:12 46:23 48:18 meaning 11:1,3 35:20 43:9,16,17
number 12:9,10 57:18,19 O'Connor's 56:14
27:21 28:6,9 29:8,21 30:3,5 O
32:7,9,10,11,14,19,20,21,22 O 2:1 3:1 P
34:12 35:9,16,16,18,24,25 obey 32:18 P 3:1
38:22 39:10 45:11 46:2 50:17 obeyed 33:21 package 37:17,25
oblique 23:13 page 2:2 3:20 5:23 34:2,7 44:2,18
31:10 37:15,16 48:13 off 51:16 park 27:5
22:8 26:12 30:7 34:22 Oh 9:8 45:22 particular 8:2,25 12:23 14:15,21 15:3
38:12 40:3 45:10,12 52:7 Ohio 1:15,21 4:2,2 5:1,15 17:3 22:15,15,16,19 24:6 25:25 27:24
56:5 Ohio's 22:7 28:15 58:10,23
47:5 48:17 49:1 53:7 old 8:19 parts 11:2 23:11 56:12
28:3 31:6 33:22 37:17 38:20 people 13:21 17:5 29:10
19:3 27:25 39:22 53:2 55:18 preserving 17:12 50:12,22 51:5,22,24 52:5,25 53:8
40:8,18 44:24 54:15 presumed 53:12 56:3,4,25 57:7,17 58:7
13:8,13 16:24,25 19:24 21:9 problem 12:25 29:5 39:15 53:20 rain 28:11
23:16 24:17 34:1 35:2 56:14,25 raised 16:25
44:7,19 45:8 46:22 47:3 48:20 problems 26:18 rates 25:10
53:2 54:7 56:9,14 processes 22:19 rather 10:24
6:3,6,12,15,17,24 7:23 8:1 9:23 33:4,7,16 34:4,14,17 35:7,20,24 reading 5:24 26:24 31:4 34:6,7 35:5
12:3,22 18:1,8,18,24 19:4,12 37:1 38:23 39:10 45:11 46:2 37:19 42:22 43:3 46:14 50:8 51:17
20:3,15 21:4 34:10 36:11 proposition 21:6 55:23
41:6,21,25 43:5,11,14,21 provided 34:9 reads 8:1 37:22
50:2,3,4 54:15,23 provision 3:22,25 4:19 5:22 6:13,14 realistically 22:9,17
57:7,11 16:3 19:12 22:24 34:11,21 35:23 really 22:1 43:17 51:19
19:6,22 20:2,14 25:1 42:5 53:7 purely 15:5 recognizing 28:5
purpose 36:13 50:5 55:9 57:23 58:5 refer 42:17,18 43:14
25:23 28:3,4,19 29:2,13,20 question 3:11 4:9 5:5,21 6:1,7,10,19 regarded 32:2
31:7 32:15 33:8 37:3 38:19 6:21 7:6,9,18 8:14 9:7,9,9,14 10:8 regime 15:9 23:11
11:11,16,18 12:4,16,25 13:6,16 regional 48:12
32:5,8,24 33:22 40:15 41:2,9 22:1,20 24:1 25:7,7,15 26:4,8,16 regularly 43:5
43:18,23 47:15 51:3 52:13 27:4,13,14,15,22 28:10,10,17,20,22 regulate 5:9 12:3,12,23 15:3,22 16:12
56:11,11 29:2,6,15,16 30:16,17 31:13,14,18 18:6 25:10 27:16 40:23 43:19 44:1
21:21 23:12,18,19 24:12,14 return 24:17 second 19:24 40:11,15 44:6 45:2 57:4
28:7 29:24 30:10 31:3,23 reverse 9:16 section 4:10,13 10:17 17:24 21:13
36:19 37:15,16,17 38:19,20 reversing 56:15 36:2 44:15
41:4,7 43:25 46:17 50:17 54:1 review 25:22 see 16:10 30:19 39:4 57:1,8
RICHARD 1:21 2:8 26:6 seeing 30:21
21:12,19 37:6,7 47:12 52:8,9 right 6:5,7,9 7:21 11:23 13:5,7 15:14 35:7 42:12 54:6,10
16:12,14,16 19:2 31:15 33:20,23 seen 39:2
17:13,23 18:11 19:7,20 23:17 54:17 57:6,13 self-government 5:17
41:4,8 42:7,8,15,17,18 rights 9:17 10:19 send 13:20
43:8 44:4,6,24 45:6 57:23 road 22:16 27:24 sense 5:9 7:11 11:25 52:16
roads 14:15,17 sensible 41:22 43:2 47:4
38:22 40:20 routing 10:21,22 11:7 13:9,13,14 serious 53:3 54:5
36:8,24,25 40:12,24,25 same 5:5 6:10 8:4,10 9:1 13:11 21:1 since 49:11,11
44:5 46:15 50:15,23 51:12 23:21 24:20 30:17 31:12 33:16 36:1 single 10:1 12:20,23 39:20 41:22
56:18 41:7 43:25 44:3 45:2,7 50:4,5 53:17 46:5 57:9
26:7 58:4 save 17:14 situations 14:14 26:17
scheme 21:21 22:7 24:13,16 25:10 something 5:19 9:4 13:18 14:11 15:6
schemes 22:2 26:14 28:5 38:10 46:23 56:6
stretch 22:16 taken 49:4
12:12 14:12 15:18 23:9,11 24:8 strike 12:18 talk 14:2
25:4 27:18 28:6 30:4,6,8 stronger 11:18 talking 13:19 21:2 22:1 27:22,23
33:10,18 35:24 39:12 41:8 strongly 50:19 40:22,23 42:10 44:16,17 46:22
46:1 49:19 structure 8:10 52:23 talks 4:12
8:5 11:4 54:23 55:25 57:8,11 49:16,21,25 50:2,4
12:1,2,7,8,11,21 13:11 subdivisions 3:14 4:5 5:4,11,17 6:3,6 terms 7:15 10:14 32:7,24 51:2 52:15
15:10 17:1,1,3,3,7,9,13,24 6:24 9:24 11:8 12:22 18:1,18 19:13 tested 21:22
19:4,5,10,14,20 20:14 20:15 21:4 42:21 49:17 text 3:19 41:12 55:13,13
21:4,8 22:3,4,10,18 subject 51:1 Thank 3:9 17:15 26:4 55:15 58:24,25
24:20 25:2,23,23 26:23 27:6 submit 3:16 their 3:12,14 5:12,15 11:8 12:22 14:7
30:10 33:5,6 34:10 submitted 59:1,3 15:10,14 16:3 22:17 23:6 24:8,9,13
37:9,13,17,21 38:1,7 39:21 subordinate 18:8 20:2 41:13 25:5,9 26:13 37:2,2 38:10,13 39:6
40:1,4,14,24 41:3,6,21 42:1,4 subsection 18:25 19:19 26:2 28:1 39:13,25,25 42:3 44:25 45:10 51:10
43:5,11,19,21 44:4,4,5 45:4,5 41:18,20 51:14,23 52:21 53:19 58:12,17
48:9,11,17,22 49:2,2 subsections 40:10 themselves 52:8 53:4,13
50:1,1,3 52:9,11 53:18 substantive 53:14 theory 55:24
55:1 56:18 57:4,10 suddenly 10:19 58:4 thereof 4:11
58:20 sufficiently 21:9 They'd 45:13
8:25 10:19 11:7,25 12:19 13:15 suggestion 4:20 7:4 13:8 things 22:16 36:8 55:1
15:1 16:11 17:10,19 20:1,24 suitable 22:15 think 4:9 7:9,16,22 9:9,22,24 10:14
24:21 38:5,10 41:25 46:3 47:4 superseded 23:14 10:24 12:15 13:7 14:4 15:18,19
49:6,19 53:4,4,12,15,22 58:12 supervisory 50:14 16:19 17:1,10 21:15 22:6,8 23:13
20:13 24:1,3,6 25:17 26:1,24 suppose 12:5 28:15 37:13 thinks 14:8
29:13,13 30:1 31:5 33:3 36:2 Supposing 28:11 29:6 third 22:21,23 45:8,19
37:4,19,22 38:18,21 39:3 Supremacy 53:21 though 19:5
42:16,25 43:5 45:24 48:3,6 Supreme 1:1,12 thought 29:19 30:22 46:20
50:21,25 51:6,8,18,20 sure 8:24 35:11 57:20 three 18:20
53:6,10,18 54:8 55:12 surplusage 39:15 through 12:20 14:8 15:10 19:17 27:5
57:2,4,9 uncovered 26:11 weak 26:19
23:5,6,11 24:7,24 25:22 26:2 underbrush 49:10 well 4:9 7:6,21 11:11 12:4,18 13:13
47:2 56:12 undercutting 38:15 13:18 14:3 17:16 20:16 26:16 27:13
unilluminating 48:1 we're 4:21,22,24 6:18,20,23,24 11:15
30:1 32:3,16 33:24 UPS 45:12 58:3 wishes 18:7
47:12 urge 35:12 Wolens 53:17
25:16,24 27:3 28:8 30:12 34:3 34:25 43:10 44:5 46:12,13 48:2,18 47:9 57:3,10,11
35:6,18,19,22 38:2,16 49:20 52:15,16 57:10,11,15 words 10:1,5 32:13 47:8 57:3
56:17,23 used 30:19 40:18 49:25 57:3 work 40:10
33:12 39:4 vacations 29:10 34:21 43:15 49:12 52:3
vehicles 29:9,10,23 write 57:10
29:9,17 30:6,20,22 32:18 33:6 31:9 34:2,13,20 35:4 36:10 38:15
36:25 39:12 46:23 39:13,17 45:14,18 53:3 56:18 X
47:16 49:7 W year 12:7
wanted 8:24 9:2 30:8 37:24 46:11 Z
4:10 8:1,1,9,12 10:5 17:4,11 34:2,7
41:3,15 57:14
14:22 27:24 54:7
1:12 3:2
59:2
7:24 9:24
36:2
17:24
45:24
16:16
2:7
8:19 23:16
57:24
3:12 4:2 7:7 8:22 10:3,6,19
18:3 25:4 58:2
7:3,7 23:16
3:22 4:22,25 5:24 6:8 7:2,23 8:3,4,4
9:1,2,25 10:1,8,14,25
16:9,21 17:11 18:25 19:19
23:2 26:3,22 28:2 34:8 40:11
41:11,16,16 42:8,16,24 44:2
45:20,21,22 55:23 56:10 57:3
58:17
1:10
1:10
2:9
2:4 57:1,5,14,19
30:20
10:17
56:22
15:18
56:22
38:12
55:16
8:7 9:3 10:15,17 11:2,6 15:17
23:5,6,11 24:7,24 25:22 26:2
56:12
38:10 46:1
2:12 32:17
56:16
