IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 01-463
FIOR D'ITALIA, INC. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X
Washington, D.C.
Monday, April 22, 2002
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at
10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
EILEEN J. O'CONNOR, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
TRACY J. POWER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
EILEEN J. O'CONNOR, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
TRACY J. POWER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
EILEEN J. O'CONNOR, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Number 01-463, United States v. Fior
D'Italia. Ms. O'Connor..
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EILEEN J. O'CONNOR
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. O'CONNOR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case is about the authority of the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue to assess FICA taxes that
Congress has imposed on employers. It also involves the
well-established principle of tax litigation. It involves
two key sections of the Internal Revenue Code and how they
relate to each other, and it involves the evidentiary
value of assessment in tax litigation.
The first of the key sections is section 6201.
It appears at page 62a of the appendix to our petition.
It authorizes and requires the Secretary of the Treasury
to make inquiries, determinations, and assessments of all
taxes imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. The second
key section is 3111. It appears at page 55a of the
appendix to our petition. This section imposes a tax on
employers. The tax is measured by the wages they pay or
are deemed to have paid their employees.
QUESTION: Which section is this, Ms. O'Connor?
I'm --
MS. O'CONNOR: Section 3111 at page 55a of our
appendix to the petition.
QUESTION: Thank you.
MS. O'CONNOR: This is the tax that imposes --
this is the provision that imposes a tax on the wages
employers pay or are deemed to have paid their employees.
The question this case presents is how the
commissioner carries out his obligation under 6201 to
assess the tax that is imposed by section 3111. The tax
is --
QUESTION: Ms. O'Connor, let me tell you what
troubles me a little about the Government's position in
the case, and I hope you will address this. How can an
employer ever challenge effectively an assessment made
under the position that you approach, because the normal
burden of proof in a tax refund case normally requires the
employer to show exactly how much money was owed, and I
don't see how that would work in this context.
MS. O'CONNOR: Exactly, Your Honor. The
Congress has recognized the difficulty that employers have
in this regard, and that is the reason there are several
of the other sections that we will discussing this
morning. Section 6205, for example, is mentioned in your
materials. That is a provision that permits employers on
their own, if they discover an error, to correct it later
and have no interest assessed. That's a very unusual
provision, and it relates specifically to the complexity
of employment taxes and their administration.
QUESTION: Well, would that error ever be
anything more than a disparity between what the employee
reported and what the employer reported?
MS. O'CONNOR: Would what, Your Honor?
QUESTION: How -- I mean, the error that that
section -- I'm wondering what the error is that that
section contemplates, and I can see it's application,
let's say, if the employer simply added up the employee's
reports wrong and got the wrong figure. Under what other
circumstances would it apply short of the moment at which
the Government makes the assessment which is in question
here?
MS. O'CONNOR: It could also apply just -- and
6205 is not specific to restaurants or food or beverage
establishments or tips at all, because another common
error that employers can sometimes make is
mischaracterizing a worker as an independent contractor,
for example, and upon determining later that the person is
actually an employee and they should be withholding
FICA --
QUESTION: Well, let me ask the question in
another way. How would it -- how could it apply in this
situation? In other words, as I understand it -- I mean,
this is -- I didn't mean to side-track you from Justice
O'Connor's question, but I'll raise the thing that bothers
me. As I understand it, what the employer is obligated to
report is the sum total of all the reports that the
employees give to the employer of tip income.
MS. O'CONNOR: That's right, Your Honor.
QUESTION: And I'll assume for the sake of the
question that a given employer has done that.
MS. O'CONNOR: Mm-hmm.
QUESTION: I also assume that if you are
correct, that employer has this possibility hanging over
it that the IRS is going to make this kind of an
assessment.
MS. O'CONNOR: That --
QUESTION: Is there any -- my question is, is
there any way that the employer can anticipate this kind
of an assessment in order at least to avoid the interest
running under this section?
MS. O'CONNOR: Absolutely. There are many
different ways, Your Honor, and this case provides a very
good example. Employees are required to report on a
monthly basis to employers. You can see from the forms
8027, which are at pages 38 and 39 of the joint appendix,
those are the forms that this restaurant filed for 1991
and 1992.
QUESTION: And they were all correct, I take it.
MS. O'CONNOR: Right, those forms were
absolutely correct.
You will also note at the top of the page it
says that it is an information report, because this is
information that Congress has required food and beverage
establishments to provide to the Internal Revenue Service
exactly for a purpose such as this.
Now, the annual -- the information report at
pages 38 and 39 is an annual report that the food and
beverage establishment provides to the Internal Revenue
Service, but employees provide reports to employers at
least monthly. You will see on the forms 8027 that 90
percent of the sales of this restaurant were paid for by
credit card, so every single month this restaurant could
have compared the tips that employees were reporting with
the tips that they saw were being charged on credit cards,
and as any business owner would do when faced with a
liability that could occur down the road, you're going to
set up a reserve for it.
You know you have got your annual insurance
premium due next January. You start setting aside for it.
QUESTION: He may set up -- the employer may set
up a reserve, but as I understand it the employer is not
obligated, in effect, to withhold upon himself, is not
obligated to pay the tax on it until the assessment comes,
because under the IRS' instructions the employer pays the
tax on the amounts reported to the employer even if he
knows they're wrong.
MS. O'CONNOR: That's exactly right, and that's
another indication of the fact that Congress realized that
this was going to be a difficult provision for employers
to enact.
QUESTION: Well, what would he do --
MS. O'CONNOR: 31 --
QUESTION: What would he do to anticipate it?
Would he say, I'm paying you another $10,000, I don't
happen to owe you that in tax now, I paid what the law
requires me to pay, and you haven't assessed anything
else, but here's another $10,000? I mean, is that what
you're anticipating?
MS. O'CONNOR: Absolutely not, Your Honor. In
fact, it is the rare taxpayer who seeks to pay his tax
before it's called for.
(Laughter.)
QUESTION: All right, then how does the taxpayer
take advantage of the provision that allows him to make a
correction and avoid the interest in this case?
MS. O'CONNOR: Well, one of the things that is
somewhat troublesome about some of the briefs in front of
you from the other side is that the other side is looking
at this as though it was a penalty, and it's not a
penalty, it's merely a tax. In fact, there specifically
are no penalties. Let me point out --
QUESTION: I will assume -- no, I will assume
it's no penalty. I just want to know how it works in this
situation. He doesn't owe any tax --
MS. O'CONNOR: Right.
QUESTION: -- based on what he has to report to
you.
MS. O'CONNOR: Right.
QUESTION: You haven't assessed anything yet.
How can he possibly take advantage of the provision that
allows him to make a correction, to pay in accordance with
that correction, and to avoid any interest that he would
otherwise be liable for? How can he take advantage of it?
MS. O'CONNOR: Well, let me point out a couple
of things from your question, Justice Souter. First, let
me direct you to 3121(q). Provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code provide a couple of things. They provide
what is tax, how is the tax measured, when is it
measured --
QUESTION: Where is 2131(q)?
MS. O'CONNOR: 3121(q) is in our joint appendix
here -- oh, no, no, it's in the petition. Thank you.
3121(q) is at 58(a). Thank you very much.
QUESTION: General O'Connor, it might help if
you answered specifically whether interest does run on the
period between the employer paying what the employee's
reports call for and the assessment at a higher amount.
MS. O'CONNOR: Thank you, Justice Ginsburg. No,
there is no interest that runs, and that's why I wanted
you to look at 3121(q) in particular.
QUESTION: Then how does this section have an
application here? You say, well, this mitigates it,
and --
MS. O'CONNOR: No, I'm sorry --
QUESTION: -- it seems to me that about all the
employer can do is pay immediately at the moment of your
assessment and therefore no interest will run.
MS. O'CONNOR: No, I did not mean to suggest
that 6205 applied to this assessment, and in fact it
doesn't. 6205 applies when the employer himself discovers
an error and corrects it at the next available
opportunity.
QUESTION: So it wouldn't apply in these
circumstances.
MS. O'CONNOR: It doesn't need to, because under
3121(q) -- it's a very interesting provision. 3121
provides definitions, that's all. It resides in the
subchapter of the Internal Revenue Code that provides for
these employment taxes, and (q) is the definitional
provision that says that tips are wages. It also tells
you when the tips are wages.
For the purposes of the employer FICA 3121(q)
tells you that the wages are deemed to have been paid when
the employee reports them or if the employer -- employee
doesn't report them, they are wages deemed to be paid when
the IRS issues notice of demand, so until the IRS notifies
the restaurant that there is an additional FICA tax due,
there is no interest or penalty.
QUESTION: Right, but at that point there is,
and if you would come back to Justice O'Connor's question,
which was, how could the employer ever know that there was
a mistake in the assessment, and you said, well, as soon
as he knows it, he can come forward with the additional
amount and there won't be any penalty, but how does he
know it? That's the problem.
MS. O'CONNOR: He knows it because the employees
are reporting on a monthly basis, and in this case there
was clearly -- we have $120,000 of unreported credit card
tips in each of the 2 years involved here, $120,000 in
unreported credit card tips. Those reports were coming in
every month. The restaurant has clear notice --
QUESTION: But your assessment is for more than
that. Your assessment assumed a certain unreported amount
of cash tips as well. Now, how is the reporter -- how is
the employer going to know whether that's erroneous or
not?
MS. O'CONNOR: The same method that he would use
to make any other determination. For example, he knows by
the basis of the report that all credit card tips are not
being reported.
QUESTION: But the burden is on him. The burden
is on him to show what the proper amount was. I mean, IRS
comes up with a guess based on, well, we assume that the
same amount weren't reported for cash tips as weren't
reported for credit card tips, pay up.
Now, how is he going to prove that there was a
different amount for --
MS. O'CONNOR: You're exactly right, Justice
Scalia, the burden is on the taxpayer, and in this case
the taxpayer conceded the entire amount of the judgment.
Page 35 of the joint appendix --
QUESTION: But the burden is on the taxpayer to
give information as to which the taxpayer is not in the
best position to know, and --
MS. O'CONNOR: That's true, Justice Kennedy.
QUESTION: -- Justice O'Connor's original
question was, how is the employer supposed to know, and
you say, well, if he doesn't know he can amend later.
The whole question is, and the gravamen of the
argument put forth by the taxpayer here is that the
assessment should be on the person, or on the entity that
has the information, and here your information is as good
as the employer's, and you have the ability to do what the
employer can't, i.e., subpoena the individual records of
the employees.
MS. O'CONNOR: Actually, not all of that is
true, Justice Kennedy. The employer, if there were a
dispute between the employer and the employee the employer
certainly could subpoena records of the employee in a
matter such as that, and respondent, as you say, does --
QUESTION: How does he do that, sue the
employee?
MS. O'CONNOR: Oh, if -- yes, if there were a
dispute between the two over any matter the employer
certainly could.
QUESTION: You're talking about a tax court or a
district court, or --
MS. O'CONNOR: No, just as a general
proposition. Just as a general proposition. In this
case --
QUESTION: Well, as a general proposition I
don't think the employer can subpoena the employee. I
mean, you have to have a legal proceeding, don't you?
MS. O'CONNOR: Oh, exactly. That's what I mean,
Your Honor. If there were some other legal proceeding --
QUESTION: Well, but I mean, that's not going to
work. You're suggesting that he ought to fire the
employee and then be subjected to a wrongful discharge
suit and then subpoena the information so that he can give
it to you. Why don't you just ask for it?
MS. O'CONNOR: Well, actually, there is no
evidence in the record on whether the individual employees
were audited or not. I saw that in the Ninth Circuit
opinion, TRAC is asserted on that point.
QUESTION: But the point is, you have the
capacity to do it and the employee doesn't.
MS. O'CONNOR: That's true, Justice Kennedy.
The amount of assessment, though, I think it's very
important to focus on the fact that in this case, as you
can see at page 35 of the joint appendix, the taxpayer
here conceded the reasonableness of the assessment,
conceded it.
QUESTION: Then that's just luck, because I
thought Justice O'Connor's original question was, look, we
can all do this, it's so simple. You multiply 14.3
percent times the gross receipts of every restaurant in
the country, all right. Now, I thought her question was,
what is the restaurant owner supposed to do to show that
that's inaccurate, what can he do, and so far my own
conclusion listening to you is, he can write the check.
MS. O'CONNOR: I'm sorry, I didn't mean to --
QUESTION: Now, is there anything else -- is
there anything else that this restaurant owner has it in
his power to do, other than write the check, and not some
theoretical thing. What I'm interested in is the
practicality of it.
MS. O'CONNOR: Absolutely, Your Honor --
QUESTION: What is that?
MS. O'CONNOR: -- and I don't mean to be
avoiding the question. Let me point to another line on
the form, 8027. You'll notice there is a line that refers
to 8 percent, and then there's a blank and it says, or
lower percentage. The reason for that is that if a
restaurant employees are reporting tips that are less than
8 percent of gross sales, that could raise a red flag that
maybe the restaurant worker --
QUESTION: It's not about 8 percent. Everybody
knows all these minimums. This is about people who are
earning more than the $20 in tips per year.
MS. O'CONNOR: Right, per month.
QUESTION: It is about people -- per month, or
whatever.
MS. O'CONNOR: Right.
QUESTION: It is about people who satisfy all
these other minimums. It is not about people -- they can
even get a tax credit for this.
MS. O'CONNOR: Right.
QUESTION: I'll save that question.
MS. O'CONNOR: Right.
QUESTION: I'm interested in the answer to
Justice O'Connor's question in what I'd call the mind run,
mainstream, basic, typical situation, and that is, what is
that answer? So far I'm concluding he can do nothing.
MS. O'CONNOR: No.
QUESTION: Tell me the answer.
MS. O'CONNOR: What the restaurant can do is
show evidence that would tend to determine, or help
determine the amount of the tip, how many -- what kind of
a restaurant you have, how upscale it is, where it's
located, the kind of meals you serve -- in fact, the IRS
has a procedure where restaurants can show all that
information, a sample menu to get below the 8 percent.
QUESTION: And then I'm not being clear.
MS. O'CONNOR: Right.
QUESTION: I think in typical cases like this
one, the restaurant will have paid more -- they will have
assumed that it is more than 8 percent. They wrote a
check for -- they assumed it was $200,000. That's going
to be more than 8 percent of gross receipts.
MS. O'CONNOR: Right.
QUESTION: All right. Now, we're only talking
about an area that's well above that, and in respect to
the area well above that. Here it happened to be between
$200,000 and about $350,000. In respect to that extra
$150,000, you come in and say, we're sure that it was
earned in tips, and now here's what you did. You
multiplied gross receipts by 14.3 percent, and you
subtracted the $200,000, okay. I'm saying anyone can do
that, and I thought Justice O'Connor's question was, you
are a restaurant owner. You are faced with this. How do
you show that it isn't so?
MS. O'CONNOR: The taxpayer here had the
opportunity to do that. One of the things that you --
QUESTION: Well, but will you acknowledge at
least that it's virtually impossible for the taxpayer to
get that information? I mean, the taxpayer has the
reports from the employees, and they're false.
MS. O'CONNOR: What --
QUESTION: How, as a practical matter, is the
taxpayer going to establish there's something different?
I mean, we know in terms of generalities, we're told that
there are less tips paid, or bills paid in cash than by
credit card.
MS. O'CONNOR: That has been an insertion that
is unproven in the record.
QUESTION: So you don't accept that as proof.
MS. O'CONNOR: It may or may not be true.
QUESTION: So what's the employer going to do,
then?
MS. O'CONNOR: It may or may not be true.
QUESTION: Let me ask you one other thing.
There's a so-called TRAC system, right, that Congress
passed to address this very problem. What percentage of
restaurants have used TRAC? Does the record tell us that?
MS. O'CONNOR: No, the record doesn't tell us.
I understand from news reports that increasing numbers of
employers are entering into the tip rate alternative
commitment, and that is an alternative to justifying or
trying to establish -- in this case, though, let me point
out that at any point during the IRS' examination the
taxpayer could have shown, could have produced information
that would have reduced the number that you see on Exhibit
A. They never did that --
QUESTION: But where would he get --
MS. O'CONNOR: -- and they didn't do it in the
district court, either.
QUESTION: Where would the taxpayer get the
information? The only thing the taxpayer has got are the
employee's returns to the taxpayer and your assessment.
Where is the taxpayer going to get the information that
would allow it to do what you say in theory it could do?
MS. O'CONNOR: Well, magically, since its
concession in the district court, at the appellate level
and again in its briefs before this Court, the respondent
has come up with all sorts of ideas that might challenge
the amount of the assessment. Even if the --
QUESTION: But there is a stipulation in this
case -- whatever may be in the next case, there is a
stipulation in this case that they are not contesting the
method. I have a question that I think Justice Breyer has
said he was reserving, and that is, I don't understand
what's in this for the revenue, because of the -- the
provision you haven't mentioned, 45B gives the restaurant
a credit against income tax, dollar for dollar, for the
FICA tax, and let's assume we have employers, most of them
are paying at least the minimum wage, what gain is there
to the revenue whichever way this comes out?
MS. O'CONNOR: We don't know whether the
taxpayer here was paying the minimum wage, because none of
that was in the record, because the assessment amount was
conceded. The 45B credit, as you point out, is available
only for tips that are not used by the employer to satisfy
his minimum wage obligations, yet it's not a complete wash
to the Treasury, however, because you still have the FICA
tax being paid in and an income tax credit being given, so
it's the trust fund accounting that would have a problem
if you look at it as a complete offset. From the
Government side it's not a complete offset at all.
Let me emphasize that the concession in this
case --
QUESTION: Excuse me, I didn't understand that.
MS. O'CONNOR: Yes.
QUESTION: Go over that again. What trust fund?
MS. O'CONNOR: The social security trust fund,
so to speak.
QUESTION: So to speak, yes.
(Laughter.)
MS. O'CONNOR: Well, it is a matter of
Government accounting. As a matter of Government
accounting.
QUESTION: It's a fantasy, isn't it? I mean, it
all goes into one pot, doesn't it?
MS. O'CONNOR: As a matter of Government
accounting, there are funds that are --
QUESTION: Purely as an accounting matter it
makes a difference, is that it?
MS. O'CONNOR: As a Government funding matter.
As a Government funding matter.
QUESTION: From the point of view of the
taxpayer it makes no difference, I take it?
MS. O'CONNOR: From the point of view of the
taxpayer, it will make a difference if they use tips to
satisfy their minimum wage requirement, and on this record
we don't know.
QUESTION: And if they don't, it won't make
that -- a difference.
MS. O'CONNOR: It will -- well, no, that's not
entirely true, but it's an optional credit. The employer
can prove his eligibility for the credit and claim it, or
rather than claiming the deduction, they can claim a tax
deduction, which they might prefer to do.
QUESTION: What happens if the employer doesn't
have enough, I guess, gross income to offset? Then he has
to be stuck with the difference, right?
MS. O'CONNOR: Well, it is a nonrefundable
credit, and that means you can either use the credit as an
offset to your income tax, and what you're suggesting is
they don't have any income tax. That kind of employer
might prefer to take it as a deduction, which would create
a net operating loss which could carry forward and benefit
a future year.
QUESTION: But the question -- and to overstate
the point -- I'm not buying into this argument at the
moment, but I do want to hear your response. From their
briefs I have the impression that it doesn't make a lot of
difference to the Government in this case. It would make
a lot of difference to the Government in the case of
restaurants that are losing money, in the case of
taxicabs, hairdressers, newspaper boys, and anyone else
who is in a business where people receive tips, and in
respect to those kinds of cases it gives the Government a
weapon.
In this case, it's being used to force them into
a TRAC program that they don't want to enter. In some
other case, to have a kind of threat that you could make
to people because, of course, a lot of income is
underreported through tips, and you'd always be able to go
out and assess more.
Now, you're asking us to interpret some very
broad language as saying Congress has given you authority
to do a particular thing. They're saying, don't give them
that authority. Congress would never have intended the
IRS to do what I've just described.
Now, I want to be sure you have a clear
opportunity to answer that, because I want to hear what
the answer is.
MS. O'CONNOR: Congress had the opportunity to
say that no, the IRS does not have the authority to do
what has been referred to here as aggregate assessment,
and I might just point out here that rather than aggregate
assessments, which is what the respondent calls what has
happened here, respondent would prefer the individual
audits and aggregating the estimates, because certainly
they would be estimates if they were done on the basis of
the individual waiter's reports also.
But in 1998, when Congress said that the IRS
cannot use a threat of an assessment like this to force
restaurants into a TRAC, it clearly had the opportunity to
say, and besides, you don't have the authority to do these
estimates anyway, these assessments anyway. The authority
is very clear, and the only thing that the respondent has
ever argued here is that the amount might be wrong, and
they can't tell you exactly what it is, but there is no
rule that an assessment has to be entirely accurate or
precise. The assessment authority requires inquiries and
determinations, and that's what's happened here.
QUESTION: The assessment is presumptively
correct, isn't it, under the statute?
MS. O'CONNOR: Not under the statute, Justice
Rehnquist, Chief Justice Rehnquist, but rather under the
laws that this Court has observed. In United States v.
Janis, this Court commented on the presumed correctness of
assessments and their evidentiary value in tax litigation.
QUESTION: Well, you take the position it is
presumed to be correct, don't you?
MS. O'CONNOR: It is -- United States v. Janis
stands for the proposition that an assessment is valid
unless it is without any foundation. Clearly, here, when
the assessment is based on the respondent's own report,
and more than three-quarters of the assessment is on the
amounts that are clearly known to be true, clearly this
foundation, this assessment has a foundation. Thereafter,
once you've established that the assessment is not
invalid, that it has a foundation at all, then you start
talking about the amount.
QUESTION: Well, I wonder --
QUESTION: No, please, go ahead.
QUESTION: Well, it has a foundation if three-
quarters of it is true?
MS. O'CONNOR: Pardon me?
QUESTION: It has a foundation if three-quarters
of it is true?
MS. O'CONNOR: Oh, no.
QUESTION: Is that what having a foundation
means?
MS. O'CONNOR: The test under Janis I think is
much, much lower than that. It's -- an assessment is
valid if it has any foundation at all --
QUESTION: So if --
MS. O'CONNOR: -- and clearly, this one has a
foundation.
QUESTION: -- 1 penny on the dollar is accurate,
that -- it has a foundation? Is that what it means? It
couldn't mean that.
MS. O'CONNOR: Oh, I think that would be pushing
it a little far, Your Honor, and that's not what United
States v. Janis requires.
QUESTION: I would think it would mean that
there's some reason to believe the full amount is
accurate, not that three-quarters of it is accurate.
MS. O'CONNOR: That's not what this Court has
held, particularly United States v. Janis, where in fact
the assessment there was based on an estimate of wage-
earning practice. By looking at 5 days' worth of wages
the commission assessed on 77 days worth of wages.
QUESTION: Sure, but doesn't the Janis rule
assume that the taxpayer is, in fact, in a position to
prove the correct figure if the assessment is wrong?
MS. O'CONNOR: Not necessarily, Your Honor, and
it is incumbent upon any taxpayer upon whom a tax is
imposed to maintain whatever books and records they can.
QUESTION: Exactly, and that comes back to the
question I've asked before. What can this taxpayer do?
MS. O'CONNOR: Well, the taxpayer is in a
business that requires a lot of things. There health,
safety, and sanitation regulations. There are also tax-
reporting regulations. You hire reliable people, you tell
them what the rules are, you remind them what the rules
are, and you facilitate their compliance, and that's what
the restaurant here needed to have done, and may even have
done. Since they didn't challenge the assessment or
amount of the assessment, I think we can assume that --
QUESTION: Well, short of the restaurant's
hiring someone to bird dog every single waiter and
waitress to see what, in fact, the tip was, I don't see
how the employer here could collect the information.
The gambler, sure, he can write it down in his
little book, but I don't see where the employer here is in
a position to get the figure to write down in a little
book, short of having a third person follow every --
MS. O'CONNOR: The waiter can also write down
his tips in a little book, and there are --
QUESTION: Sure, and the whole premise of the
problem is that the waiter is in fact not telling the
whole truth.
MS. O'CONNOR: That is why restaurants --
QUESTION: I mean, that's just really
impractical.
MS. O'CONNOR: -- every employer should hire
reliable people who they can trust to follow the rules.
(Laughter.)
MS. O'CONNOR: I'd like to reserve the balance
of my time for rebuttal.
QUESTION: Very well, Ms. O'Connor.
Ms. Power, we'll hear from you.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF TRACY J. POWER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. POWER: May it please the Court, Your Honor:
Congress did not saddle the employer with a tax
while depriving him of any way to defend against it.
Congress did not require the employer to do what for 30
years it told him it was not required to do. This tax is
not authorized. Because it's not authorized, that affects
the burden of proof and the presumption of correctness.
I'd like to suggest an analogy. If Congress had
passed a tax on my chickens and the IRS came along and
said, we're imposing a tax on you, on your neighbor's
cows, and I said, but I don't owe a tax on my neighbor's
cows, and they in turn said, yes, well, what we did was,
we figured your neighbor had X number of acres and
therefore the average number of cows per acre is Y, and
you owe the tax on the cows, and I said, well, I'm not
going to fight that because I don't have any way to know
how many cows my neighbor had.
QUESTION: But can I just ask one question that
really puzzles me in this case?
(Laughter.)
QUESTION: I can't follow the cows and all --
(Laughter.)
MS. POWER: I understand.
QUESTION: But you did have records, written
records that showed that the actual amount of tips paid by
credit card and so forth to the people in question here
was substantially larger than you reported. Why shouldn't
that put you on notice that you owed a little money to the
Government?
MS. POWER: We do not know to what extent, if
any, those credit card tip amounts, or the amount on the
credit card tip slot on a credit card, was in fact
received by an employee, a tip received by an employee
that is wages subject to the act. We do not know what --
QUESTION: Well, but after those credit cards go
to the restaurant, doesn't the restaurant turn the cash
over to the employee?
MS. POWER: The restaurants handle it in a
variety of different ways. It could be as simple as an
employee at the end of the night starting to turn over all
the money he's collected during the night, first to
satisfy all the credit card bills, then to satisfy all of
the dupes for the food that he had with the balance
remaining in his pocket, which he then turns around and
kicks out to a whole host of other employees. We do --
QUESTION: But don't you know what the practice
is in your own restaurants?
MS. POWER: We would know what -- each
individual restaurant would know what is done in basic
practice in their restaurant, but how much, if any, of
that credit card amount was retained by any individual, we
do not know.
QUESTION: No, but what may -- I understand the
waiter may have split the tips with the busboy and so
forth and so on, but the total amount of tip on the credit
card slip was paid to some employee, was it not?
MS. POWER: Well, we don't even know whether
it's a tip. There are many reasons why it might not be a
tip.
QUESTION: But this is a particular restaurant.
I mean, it 's not as if we're talking about the world of
restaurants. Surely this particular restaurant knows.
MS. POWER: Would know whether that credit card
amount was, in fact, a tip? No. You could have well had
a circumstance --
QUESTION: You mean if it's shown on the credit
card --
QUESTION: As a tip --
QUESTION: -- as a tip -- I seem to recall
seeing a space --
QUESTION: Yes.
QUESTION: -- on restaurant charges --
(Laughter.)
MS. POWER: That's correct.
QUESTION: -- that says, tip, X amount. You
fill it in.
MS. POWER: And that's correct, and if I went in
and I didn't have any cash in my pocket and I said to the
waiter, you know, I'm going to leave some extra tip on
here, I need to pay for the valet when I leave, I'm going
to put $5 extra on here, can you give me the cash -- yes,
it's possible that there's tips on there.
QUESTION: The question isn't possible. The
question is what's normal, and normal tip is tip, and I
don't understand the chickens and the cows exactly --
(Laughter.)
QUESTION: In my copy of the code here it
says -- it doesn't say -- it says the employer, there is
imposed on the employer an excise tax equal to 6.2 percent
of wages, and it says, including tips, so I don't see
how -- what your argument is that the tax isn't
authorized. Of course it's authorized.
MS. POWER: But it's wages of an individual
employee.
QUESTION: Yes, that's right, and the employer
has to --
MS. POWER: It's wages -- and they have, what
their assessment stands for is a tax on my gross tip
payroll. There has been no -- that is not a tax --
QUESTION: No, no, but I -- I understand that
basic point. I'm trying to get you to focus on what I
think would be, despite the rights and wrongs of it, their
very strong legal position, which is very simple.
Number 1, that there is assessed here a tax on the
employer equal to 6.2 percent of the total, including tip
wages of the employee, all right, and they say, we have
the power under the statute to assess the amount, and
moreover, we think your client didn't pay, and therefore
we took what we think was a very reasonable way of
figuring that out.
We looked at the credit cards and we saw it
said, tips, and we saw 14.2 percent is the typical amount,
and we assume that's it for credit and for cash, and if
you don't like that, you prove to the contrary. We don't
think you can prove it, not because it just isn't
possible, that probably, in all likelihood, it isn't true,
okay. Now, that's their point.
Now, you reply to that. I would like to hear
your argument.
MS. POWER: My reply to that is, we started out
by saying it's wages, including the tips of the employee,
and they did not give us a bill for wages which are the
tips of the employee. They gave us a bill for the total
gross tips of all employees collectively, and this Court
has already held that FICA taxes are divisible taxes under
Flora v. United States, that it is a tax imposed upon the
individual wage earnings. This Court has already
interpreted 3111 to be a tax on individual wage earnings,
and they did not give us a bill for that tax.
QUESTION: Well, but that's a different argument
from the one that we've been wrestling with, which is
whether or not you have within your authority and control
an ability to calculate the basis for challenging the
assessment.
MS. POWER: We do not.
QUESTION: And you began by saying, well, they
differ and, frankly, I don't give much force to that
argument. The employer knows how the employer distributes
credit card receipts. That's the employer's job, so I'm
not particularly persuaded by that argument. If you want
to go ahead and say, well, the cash portion of the tips
don't relate to the -- in the same ratio that the credit
card tips, I would understand that.
MS. POWER: The employer does not know how the
tips, the credit card tips are distributed. It's not as
if --
QUESTION: Doesn't the employer get the credit
card receipt?
MS. POWER: At the end of the --
QUESTION: And doesn't the -- the employer can
st up any system the employer wants.
MS. POWER: At the end of the evening the
employer would cash out all the employees and would turn
over credit card tips to employees who might have received
credit card receipts, and those employees would then
decide among themselves to whom in what amount they are
going to share those tips that they have received, along
with any cash tips that they may have --
QUESTION: But the employer at least has an
aggregate at that point, some that appears from the credit
cards to have been paid out in tips, no matter how it's
shared.
QUESTION: In addition, he has the ability -- in
addition, he has the ability to tell his employees that he
wants to know the ratio in which they're shared. He can
make that a condition of employment, so I'm not persuaded
by that argument.
MS. POWER: I don't really think he can make
that a condition of employment. I think that employers
have to be very careful what happens in the context of
wage and hour laws and tip-pooling regulations and so on
and so forth.
QUESTION: Well, that seems to me all the more
reason why the employer should have a strong interest in
knowing how the division is being made.
MS. POWER: Well, I think that there are many
employees who do not want the employer to have anything to
do -- to know -- to do with the tip-sharing arrangements.
It is -- tips are the property of the employee. Not only
that, you have --
QUESTION: But the employer, Ms. Power, has an
obligation to pay FICA tax, and has an obligation to pay
it on the total earnings, and it isn't -- your cow analogy
didn't just pass me by, because the tax on the employer is
independent of the tax on the employee. Suppose these
employees never paid a cent in FICA tax, and they went off
to beach-comb some place, the FICA tax would be owed by
the employer just the same.
MS. POWER: That's correct.
QUESTION: So it's the employer's cow. The FICA
tax belongs to the employer.
MS. POWER: The -- there is no question that the
employer owes a FICA tax. He owes the FICA tax regardless
of whether the employee is ever audited. He owes the FICA
taxes regardless of whether the employee is ever assessed
or the employee ever pays his taxes. It can be assessed
against the employer at a completely different time from
when it can be assessed against the employee.
The employer does not dispute that he owes a FICA
tax. What the employer disputes is, I can't know what I
owe that FICA tax on until you make some determination of
what the individual earnings are, because until that time,
I am denied all defenses employees have that they can
raise, and there's a whole list of long --
QUESTION: But you know what -- in fact, you
stipulated that you don't dispute the facts, the
estimates, or determinations used by the IRS as a basis
for its calculation of an amount of aggregated unreported
tip income by all directly and indirectly tipped
employees, which is your -- is on page 35 of the joint
appendix. You agreed that you are in this case, for
purposes of this case not disputing any of that.
MS. POWER: I do not -- we do not dispute the
amount of the IRS' aggregate assessments because -- of all
employees collectively, because we simply do not have the
information to dispute that. Congress has prohibited us
from having that information. We do not have that
information. We have never had that information.
Congress for 30 years has told us we do not have to
concern ourselves with that information, and we do not
have the wherewithal to dispute it.
So in this case, do I dispute that? No, because
it is not worth disputing that or attempting to even
whittle down that assessment in this case.
QUESTION: But your position is, we know that
there is a disparity between what is reported and what is
actually paid in tips. We know that both the employee and
the employer independently owe a tax on that total amount,
and we know about the shortfall, but there is nothing the
Government can do. It's just stuck by what the servers
put down on the monthly form that they file.
MS. POWER: There's plenty that the Government
can do. The Government has the wherewithal to do
everything, and that's exactly what Congress says should
be done.
QUESTION: Well, the only thing that you've
proposed, and tell me if I'm wrong about this, is that the
Government go one by one after the employees, and am I
correct in saying that the same method would be used by
the Government if it went against an individual server,
that it -- you are resisting the Government using against
the restaurant. That is, let's take a waiter in this
establishment. The Government says, you've underreported
your tip income, and the way we figured out that you've
underreported it is the same formula. Isn't that what
goes on when --
MS. POWER: No, it's entirely different,
because -- and as the McQuatters case that's cited in the
briefs by both parties illustrates, in that circumstance,
the individual waiter has an opportunity to bring any
defenses that he has to the Government's assessment
forward, and we are denied every possible defense by that
scenario.
QUESTION: Well, take -- make that specific,
please. Here is a waiter, and the Government says, you
have unreported income, and this is how we've estimated
it. We've estimated it based on our formula, and then
specifically what does that employee do when the
Government says, we've made an estimate based on this 14
percent, or whatever it is?
MS. POWER: The employee disputes the estimate.
Whether he does it at an administrative level or whether
he goes to the tax court and disputes it, he goes in and
he disputes it, and he raises the issues, and I think a
number of them were identified in the waitresses' amicus
brief. For instance, they say, well, I didn't work as
long. I don't have the same experience as the other guy
had. They was stiffing, a tremendous amount of stiffing.
We had a European clientele, the tips weren't as great as
you think.
QUESTION: What is stiffing?
MS. POWER: No tip whatsoever.
(Laughter.)
MS. POWER: I'm sorry.
QUESTION: I just don't understand how any of
that can get you below the amount that shows up on the
credit cards, because for example, say one employee got
$2,000 in tips, and he could have a defense that I passed
out $600 to the busboys, and maybe his liability is less,
but it still seems to me the employer would have to at
least pay the aggregate amount on the credit card.
MS. POWER: No, because --
QUESTION: I just don't understand how you get
around that.
MS. POWER: -- there's a situation where you
could have many employees. There's a very high turnover
rate, especially with those who are in the categories that
receive the least amount of tips. Somebody who comes in,
and he's a busboy and he's there for the afternoon, and he
says, boy, forget this job, I'm leaving, and he takes the
tips that he gets that day, and that happens at a much
higher percentage --
QUESTION: Well, that would explain why
assessments might be wrong as to individual employees, but
it still doesn't reduce the gross amount in the tip column
on the credit card.
MS. POWER: It does reduce the gross amounts --
QUESTION: How?
MS. POWER: -- that the employer would have to
owe, because if any of that credit card tips that you're
assuming isn't in fact a tip was received by somebody who
made less than $20 a month, the employer doesn't owe any
tax on that.
QUESTION: Okay. That's a possibility, but
wouldn't it suffice on any rule of probability if the
Government did just what Justice Stevens described? It's
quite true, yes, there might have been an extraordinary
turnover, if there is, the employer can come in and say
so. But if the Government made its claim simply based on
what the credit card reports showed, wouldn't the
Government have made an assessment which enjoyed at least
a probability of accuracy?
MS. POWER: No, because you go back to 3111 and
Congress did not impose a tax on the aggregate earnings of
all employees collectively.
QUESTION: So your argument there is that even
if you had the perfect evidence, even if there was a memo
beyond dispute, written by the accountant and signed by
all the employers that said, after the most thorough
investigation of this restaurant I'm telling you
privately, and you agree, that the total tips earned that
are eligible for social security are $350,000, so it's
signed by 15 bishops, you know, absolute, dead right,
we're saying that even if that's so, he still doesn't owe
it because in the memo it doesn't say which employees.
MS. POWER: I think that it needs to say which
employees learned which amount, and that's what the tax
was imposed upon, and if on the other hand you had all of
the employees say yes, I earned this, yes, I earned this,
yes, I earned this, then you would have that individual
determination.
QUESTION: But there's never been anything held,
is there, that where an employer clearly owes a tax to the
Government, based because of the earnings of the employee,
and there can be different contexts where that comes up,
the evidence that he owes that has to name or pick out
which employee? I assume if there were a case that ever
said that you would have cited it, and I doubt that there
is.
MS. POWER: I don't think that there is.
QUESTION: All right. If there isn't, then
that's my problem. If you're talking about the quality of
the evidence, you run into the problem that Justices
Stevens and Souter mentioned. If you're talking about the
need for the precision identification of a single
employee, I don't see in the law any requirement for such
a principle.
MS. POWER: I think that it's in 3111. I think
that this Court has already held that the tax is imposed
upon --
QUESTION: But whereabouts in 3111? If it's
just two sentences, tell us what sentence or what clause
you --
MS. POWER: Well, 3111, it says wages or -- 3111
says wages -- I'm sorry, Your Honor.
Equal to the following percentage of wages as
defined in section 3121(a), the tax imposed on something
called wages, that is defined in 3121(a). You cannot read
3121(a) as anything but --
QUESTION: Where do we find 3121(a) in your
brief?
MS. POWER: It's on the next page, page 56 of
the Government's appendix to the petition, and it says,
the term wages means all remuneration for employment, and
it goes on -- they only have one of the individual terms
listed. There are 21 specific --
QUESTION: But you're telling us this shows your
point, and you -- point to the language that you think it
does.
MS. POWER: 3111 imposes a tax on wages --
QUESTION: On wages. It doesn't say
individual -- wages paid to each individual. It says
wages.
MS. POWER: It says wages as defined in 3121(a).
QUESTION: Then we turn to 3121, and where is it
in there that it makes your point?
MS. POWER: When you go through each one of the
21 --
QUESTION: Well, that's what we're here for, to
go through something.
MS. POWER: Okay, well, the 21 exceptions to
2131(a) lists individual things like whether an employee
participates in a health insurance plan, whether an
employee has a 401(k) plan, the extent to which an
employee's wages go above or below the social security
wage base.
QUESTION: But that goes to the accuracy of the
figure, perhaps, which you said really is not your point.
That -- none of those exceptions say anywhere,
collectively or in specific terms, that under 3111 you
can't add them all up.
MS. POWER: Well, this Court has already held
that --
QUESTION: And that's what we're saying.
MS. POWER: -- that's not the way the tax works.
This Court has already held in Flora v. United States and
as quoted in Steele v. United States that it isn't a tax
on the aggregate earnings. It is -- the assessment is an
accumulation of separate, divisible taxes on each
transaction. What is subject to the tax is each
individual payment --
QUESTION: There are two Flora cases, neither of
which are cited in your brief. Which Flora -- there was a
rehearing grant. Which one are you --
MS. POWER: Flora v. United States, and I
believe it's footnote 37 in Flora v. United States.
QUESTION: Yes, but there are two Flora v.
United States that a rehearing was granted, one's 357,
one's 362, and your brief doesn't seem to mention either
of them.
MS. POWER: Well, we referenced them in our
complaint, Your Honor. I think it's paragraph 14 of our
complaint.
QUESTION: Does it give a citation there?
MS. POWER: Yes, Your Honor. 362 U.S. 145.
QUESTION: But that was just about whether or
not the tax court had jurisdiction if the assessment
wasn't completely paid beforehand, wasn't it?
MS. POWER: Yes, but I believe that footnote 37
in that brief, in that opinion said that the Court agreed
that the excise tax, like a FICA tax, is a divisible tax.
That's the whole basis upon which we're here. We only
paid $18 of the total tax, and we paid it on the basis of
our estimate, although we cannot prove it one way or the
other, of one employee who would have made less than $20 a
month over a period of time. If this wasn't a divisible
tax, or one that was imposed upon each transaction of
wages, then we would have had to pay the entire $23,000.
This hold that it is a tax on an accumulation of all wages
of all employees is to change that 40-year history of --
QUESTION: Now, Congress passed something called
the TRAC law in 1998 to deal with this very problem of
tips and the FICA tax, did it not?
MS. POWER: Not technically, Your Honor. TRAC
is not something that Congress passed. TRAC is something
that is an agreement between the industry and the IRS. It
was -- I was the first person who approached the IRS on
coming up with some type of an agreement with the IRS to
solve this problem, and the TRAC agreement was a contract
that was written between --
QUESTION: I thought there was a section in 1998
passed by Congress, section 3414 of the Internal Revenue
Service Restructuring and Reform Act providing that IRS
would not threaten a taxpayer audit to coerce the taxpayer
into entering a tip-reporting alternative commitment
agreement, so at least Congress acknowledged --
MS. POWER: Congress acknowledged --
QUESTION: -- the agreement, did it not?
MS. POWER: It acknowledged that the agreement
existed, but Congress --
QUESTION: Do you think Congress was assuming
there were assessments going on of employers for this
liability?
MS. POWER: Not at that time, because there are
two documents at the very end of the joint appendix that
are Government documents, and they indicate that they were
not doing the employer-only assessments at that time. In
fact, they indicate that they were not doing the employer-
only assessments at that time. In fact, they indicate
that they -- they assured Congress that they were not
doing assessments at that time.
QUESTION: When did the IRS start doing these
aggregate assessments? Do you know when they started?
MS. POWER: I would say that they started doing
them about 1992, 1993, and you had asked the question
earlier, how many TRAC agreements are there that have been
signed. There are about 25-to-30,000 TRAC agreements that
have been signed. There are about 200,000 --
QUESTION: Well, this congressional provision
that I asked you about was made in 1998, so that was well
after the beginning of aggregate assessments.
MS. POWER: And long after the IRS had announced
that they were not doing aggregate assessments.
QUESTION: The gravamen of your brief is that as
a principle an assessment shouldn't be imposed on the
taxpayer unless the taxpayer has the information to
contradict the assessment, which certainly makes a lot of
common sense. Is there a provision in the code, or
something that we've said in the cases that sustains that
overarching principle?
MS. POWER: Well, I think that --
QUESTION: Or is it just kind of a due process
fairness thing?
MS. POWER: Well --
QUESTION: Is there a specific principle you can
point to to show the correctness of that assumption?
MS. POWER: Well, I think that there's 30 years
of congressional history that clearly shows that Congress
does not intend for the employer to be put in this
position, that Congress did not intend for the employer to
be required to police and monitor the reporting of
employees, and ostensibly that's what the IRS'
interpretation does.
QUESTION: But you have no specific authority or
precedent for the proposition that an assessment should
not be imposed on a taxpayer unless the taxpayer is in a
good or perhaps best position to contradict the
assessment?
MS. POWER: I think that we have plenty of
authority for the proposition that the assessment in this
case is unauthorized because it's on the collective wage-
earning on 31 --
QUESTION: But that wasn't what I asked you.
asked you about the general proposition.
MS. POWER: That a tax cannot be imposed upon --
QUESTION: An assessment cannot be imposed on
the taxpayer unless the taxpayer has the capacity or the
ability to contradict it. I mean, that's -- it seems to
me that's the principle argument in your brief. It makes
a lot of sense, but I want to know if I'm -- if the
Court's writing an opinion for that, what do they cite for
that proposition?
MS. POWER: The best I can tell you --
QUESTION: Other than the fact that this is
something everybody should know, but that doesn't usually
work.
(Laughter.)
MS. POWER: I think that the burden of
presumption and the burden of proof that they have put
forth is premised upon the understanding that the person
with that burden has the records and is in the best
position to respond, and that does not characterize this
situation, so those policy considerations behind that are
not existing here.
QUESTION: Are there other situations in the tax
law where the Government knows that income has been
underreported? Aren't estimates made in many different
contexts where the taxpayer doesn't keep reliable records,
and so the Government has to find some way of measuring
what the tax should be, so it does an estimate? Isn't
that common?
MS. POWER: In each one of those cases it's --
the person responsible for keeping the records is the one
taxed. We have no problem with the IRS attempting to
determine the earnings of the individual employees and
coming back and --
QUESTION: Well, you did before, because when I
asked you, are they making an estimate in that case, and
you started to say no, because the taxpayer, the
individual servers have all these --
MS. POWER: Excuses --
QUESTION: Yes.
MS. POWER: -- or defenses?
QUESTION: Yes. But I thought that they
could -- I thought that was a given, that if they go after
a single waiter, that they can have an estimate.
MS. POWER: They can.
QUESTION: They do make an estimate.
MS. POWER: They can.
QUESTION: And the very estimate that you are
resisting when it applies to the employer.
MS. POWER: Because we are -- we don't have the
same defenses that the waiter and the waitress does. The
waiter and the waitress can say, you know, all kinds of
things in response, that no, I didn't earn that, here are
my records, here are my individual records of exactly what
I earned.
The IRS sends them a bill based on the same
types of estimates, takes it one step further and says,
okay, well, you worked X number of hours out of the total
number of hours in this restaurant, so of this total share
we think your share is this amount. The waiter or
waitress can come in and say no, here's my individual
record, and this is exactly what I earned, or no, you're
wrong in assuming this, or you're wrong in assuming that,
and then a determination can be made of what that
individual waiter or waitress made, and then turn around
and give it to us.
That's exactly what one of the documents in our
joint appendix on page 92, that's exactly what the IRS did
do before they came up with this aggregate assessment
method, because that is precisely what Congress envisioned
that the IRS would be doing with the 8027 Form data, is
taking that information, using that information to make
examinations of individual employees, and then turning
around --
QUESTION: Now, practically can the IRS -- are
you suggesting that they go after the employees, and then
when they know the amount based on the extra tax the
employee will have to pay, then say, okay, employer, you
pay the same amount, but practically can the IRS -- does
it have the facilities to go audit every waiter and busboy
and --
MS. POWER: There's no requirement that they
audit every waiter or busboy. In the first place, that
letter that I just pointed out didn't require any audit at
all, and not only that, in the context of what's happening
here, they still have an audit problem. They've only
collected, or are attempting to collect 25 cents out of
every single dollar. They're leaving three -- 75 cents on
the table here. They come in here and they say that
they've got this huge, astronomical problem, and we can't
do anything about it.
QUESTION: Well, the reason is, maybe it isn't
cost-effective to go after the individual employees.
MS. POWER: Well, I don't think it's very cost-
effective to do this one, when the employer is --
QUESTION: The employer tax is owed
independently, which is what I started to ask you about
when you gave your cow example. The taxes on an employer,
that's a discrete tax. There's a tax on the employee.
That's a discrete tax. Why, because the Government is
going to have a hard time collecting the tax on the
employee, is it disabled from collecting the tax on the
employer?
MS. POWER: Because that's what Congress said --
QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Power.
MS. POWER: -- that the IRS should do.
QUESTION: Ms. O'Connor, you have 3 minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EILEEN J. O'CONNOR
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
QUESTION: Ms. O'Connor, at the very outset you
said that 311 imposed a tax on wages paid or deemed to
have been paid. Is the word deemed in the statute?
MS. O'CONNOR: Is the word deemed in the
statute?
QUESTION: Yes.
MS. O'CONNOR: I believe so. I believe it's in
3121(q), Your Honor, which I keep losing.
QUESTION: Well, I'll find it.
MS. O'CONNOR: Yes, it's on page 58a, is where
3121(q) appears, and remember that is a section that
provides definitions. 3121 tells you that wages include
tips which are paid or deemed to have been paid, and
3121(q) also tells you the time.
As we have said, this is a tax on an aggregate
amount. Form 941 in your joint appendix show how the
employer reports the tax, and shows that it is a tax on
the wages paid.
QUESTION: Well, except I think the deeming
refers to the time of payment, not to the fact of payment,
but I'll look at that.
MS. O'CONNOR: I think you're right about that,
Your Honor. Nonetheless, they are deemed to be paid at
the time, right. 3121(q) tells you that tips are
included, and then the deemed part is -- the tips are
wages, and the deemed part is when they are deemed to have
been paid. They're deemed to have been paid by the
employer, and then it goes on and tells you when. It does
say tips are deemed to have been paid by the employer.
That's the very first sentence. It's at page 85a.
QUESTION: How long has IRS been making these
assessments, please, Ms. O'Connor?
MS. O'CONNOR: I believe, Justice O'Connor, that
it did start around 1992 and 1993, and the information
that the IRS is gathering on the forms 8027 demonstrated
the extent of the problem that Congress suspected did
exist about substantial underreporting of tip income.
QUESTION: In view of all the questions about
the proper computation, why has the Government resisted
notice and comment rulemaking to come up with a fair
formula, because the contention is that the Government's
formula exaggerates the income, exaggerates the tip
income.
MS. O'CONNOR: That is certainly the contention,
and there have been, however, no facts to show whether
that's true or not, because in each of the cases, not only
the Ninth Circuit below, but in each of the three cases
that we cite in our briefs decided by the Seventh,
Eleventh, and the Federal Circuits, no evidence was ever
submitted to show that the tips were overstated in any
way.
QUESTION: But why not -- why not employ that
fair procedure of going through the notice and comment,
and then -- I think that's what Judge Kozinski said to do.
MS. O'CONNOR: Yes, he did. Judge Kozinski's
opinion entirely excludes section --
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: I think you've
answered the question. Judge Kozinski did say that, so
the case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
16:2,5,6 17:8,10 24:16 29:24 25:15 26:13 28:13,19 29:14,18 30:2 assuming 39:14 45:14 50:3,3
41:5,7 44:4 46:3,5,6,8 30:13 31:20,25 33:19 35:21 36:2,16 assumption 46:24
51:6,12 52:22 53:12,13 38:6,14,19 39:1,8 40:15 49:25 50:17 assured 45:23
51:8 argued 23:18 beforehand 44:6
43:11 46:1,9,11 50:9 52:15 arrangements 34:16 behind 48:11
45:15,20,22,24 46:1,9,11 53:7 bishops 40:11
claim 21:15,16 39:22 correct 5:2 6:14 7:4,6 23:24 24:6
40:21 47:1 cost 51:9
29:5,14,19 30:1,5 comment 53:15 54:3 38:15,19 39:9,13,23
38:19 39:9,13,23 commented 24:3
14:1,20 18:20 19:14,14,15 complaint 43:25 44:1 dead 40:11
22:7,8,9,14,16 28:7 35:24,25 complete 20:4,8,9 deal 44:20
37:11 40:25 47:14 49:1 completely 35:10 44:6 decide 33:19
complexity 5:4 decided 53:23
computation 53:14 deemed 3:25 4:8 11:9,11 52:2,3,4,13
33:4,16,21 concern 36:8 deeming 52:19
37:10 40:23 48:15 31:7,19 32:9,11 34:17,23 35:7,8,9 37:15 50:20,23 51:3
12:6 13:3,10,13,14,14,20 14:3 18:9 51:13
44:15 48:20 53:21,22 erroneous 12:6 facts 35:19 53:20
establish 18:1,20 fantasy 20:22
43:11 48:23 establishments 5:20 7:10 FICA 3:11 5:25 11:8,13 19:21 20:5
granted 43:21 inaccurate 15:5
happens 21:18 34:8 39:4 29:14 31:6 32:15,16 35:15 37:3,13
22:5 27:11 32:19 33:23 35:10 health 26:6 42:21 industry 44:24
51:17 hear 3:3 22:5 23:1 27:11 32:6 information 7:8,9,12 12:24 13:8,8
host 29:8 45:5
44:2 50:6 I investigation 40:8
42:15,18,23 49:8 50:16,20 51:8 illustrates 37:12 18:21 22:24 23:4,12 27:22 35:20
leave 30:17,18 measured 3:24 9:24,25
50:8 52:16 liable 9:19 mind 16:12
27:3 28:6 32:3 34:22 35:1 list 35:17 mistake 11:18
38:13,21 39:19 41:15 44:4 listed 42:4 mitigates 10:13
50:24 listening 15:6 Mm-hmm 6:12
12:19 13:1,2,13 14:18,25 litigation 3:13,16 24:4 Monday 1:9
17:15 19:16 23:25 24:1 39:19 little 4:14 25:12 26:19,20,23 28:16 money 4:19 22:9 28:16 29:4
54:7 located 16:21 monitor 47:4
M multiply 15:1
18:2 19:24 21:10 28:4,18,22 magically 19:8 N 2:1,1 3:1
30:1,17 33:7 34:3 mainstream 16:13 name 40:24
35:13,18 36:13,15,17 40:11 maintain 26:2 necessarily 25:25
47:23 48:3 49:17 50:17 make 3:20 5:21 6:15 8:25 9:17 12:9 need 11:1 30:18 41:8
48:14 making 49:1 53:6 neighbor's 27:23,24
38:11 48:5 McQuatters 37:11 none 19:25 43:2
39:1,24 45:9 means 21:22 25:1,9 42:2 note 7:7
4:13,21 5:9,18 6:9,12,17,22 7:5 8:8 place 34:25 50:23
14:12,18 15:7,13,15 16:1,4,8,10,15 plenty 36:20 47:12
20:13,15,19,24 21:3,7,13 point 9:7,20 11:15 14:15,16 15:16
pages 7:1,13 possibly 9:16
37:1,1 38:15 42:3,15 43:17 36:15 42:10 44:6,11,11 52:2,3,13,13 28:11,18 29:1,11,20 30:1,12,15 31:6
48:20,21 49:22 50:7 52:18,23 53:2,2,4 31:10,20 32:8,23 33:7,12,15 34:6,14
paragraph 43:25 34:19 35:2,5 36:1,20 37:10,24 38:10
44:10 45:22 50:25 51:1 53:21 participates 42:21 43:24 44:3,7,22 45:10,12,17 46:2,10
pass 34:22 practicality 15:12
15:10 16:6 18:12 22:16 29:8 payment 43:14 52:20,20 prefer 21:17,25 23:8
40:16 44:13 48:2,13 payroll 31:12 premise 26:24
23:6 29:8 31:23 32:8 33:16,24 people 15:24 16:2,5,6 22:11,17 26:8 presumption 27:20 48:7
38:17 40:24 49:23 50:24 51:2 27:6 28:14 presumptively 23:23
44:14 17:3,5,13 31:2,18,25 37:23 privately 40:9
40:12 permits 5:1 procedure 16:22 54:3
rebuttal 2:8 27:9 51:24 restaurant 7:2,17,18 11:13 12:2 15:2
19:19 46:7,16 recognized 4:22 restaurant's 26:14
7:4 8:1,12,14,24 regard 4:23 rulemaking 53:15
10:1,5,12,16,24 11:15 regardless 35:6,8 rules 26:9,9 27:6
12:3,12,23 13:2,3,5,17,22 regulations 26:7,8 34:9 run 10:6,18 16:12 41:6
15:3,8,14,16,23 rehearing 43:17,21 running 6:21
17:1,7,15,20 Rehnquist 3:3 24:1,1 54:7 runs 10:10
18:7,9,12,25 19:3,13,16 20:12 relate 3:15 33:5
21:1,5,11,18 22:3,3 relates 5:4 S
24:5,17,18,19,22,25 25:5,8,14 reliable 26:8 27:6 48:16 s 2:1 3:1 29:24
26:3,4,14,24 27:3,10 28:6,6,9 remaining 29:7 51:23 saddle 27:15
29:9,16,23 30:4,6,7,9 remember 52:11 safety 26:7
31:8,13 32:18 remind 26:9 sake 6:10
33:10,13,22 34:1,11,19 35:3,5 remuneration 42:2 sales 7:17 15:21
36:13,24 37:17 38:9,13,21 reply 32:6,8 same 12:8,15 33:5 35:1 37:2,8 38:5
40:4,20 41:4,14,23 42:5 report 6:7,24 7:8,12,13 9:12 11:11 49:16,21 50:19
43:7,15,20 44:2,4,19 12:10 24:10 sample 16:23
46:3,7,12,20,23 47:7 reported 5:8,8 8:6 12:11,15,16 28:15 sanitation 26:7
48:2,13,25 49:5,7,11,13 36:14 satisfy 16:5 20:3 21:9 29:5,5
51:7,11,20,22 52:1,6,9,19 reporter 12:5 save 16:9
54:2,8 reporting 7:19 11:23 15:20 26:8 47:4 saw 7:20 14:14 31:24,25
31:3 41:9 47:7 38:1 39:16 40:2,15,21 41:12,20 42:8
52:16 53:20,25 submitted 53:25 54:9,11 26:10 29:13 31:11,15 32:5
30:17 33:23 34:25 35:14 45:1 system 18:13 33:14 threaten 45:7
three 24:19 51:3 53:22
46:17 48:3 take 7:4 8:25 9:16,19 21:6,25 24:5 45:24 51:16 52:14,20,24
15:20,25 17:12 18:3 20:3 usually 48:3 we've 32:19 37:19,20,22 46:17
22:11,18 26:23 28:13 29:17 U.S 44:3 whatsoever 38:10
31:3,25 32:9,11,12 33:4,6,8,8 whereabouts 41:14
34:17 36:15 38:7,16 V wherewithal 36:9,21
40:9 44:21 52:13,24,25 v 1:5 3:4 24:2,7 25:13,18 32:14 43:9 whichever 19:23
43:10,18,19,20 while 27:16
40:9 44:11 49:23,24 38:24 44:20 45:18 49:13 51:9 52:1 wondering 5:11
45:2 46:4,5 view 21:5,7 53:13 words 6:3
32:4 39:20 53:21 41:19,21 42:2,8,9,10,11,12,23 44:16 wrestling 32:19
waitress 26:16 49:16,17 50:1,5 39:7 50:3,3
24:1 25:2 31:20 32:13 43:3 weapon 22:13
28:11 29:16 30:23 31:13 33:6 26:14 27:10,25 28:3,23 29:20 30:2 $150,000 17:11
32:18,24 33:4 34:11,14 36:24 37:17 $18 44:11
43:9,10,18,19,21 52:9,19 $200,000 17:4,10,14
25:8 31:17 6
1:12 3:2 6.2 31:2,18
54:10 62a 3:18
37:22 43:25 6201 3:17 4:10
31:25 6205 4:25 5:19 10:20,21
15:1 17:13
44:3 7
40:11 75 51:3
7:2 77 25:21
7:3 46:3 53:9
46:3 53:9 8
23:12 44:20 45:4 46:8 8 15:18,21,23 16:23 17:3,5
7:1,16 15:17 50:11 53:10
85a 53:5
11:25
46:6 9
1:9 90 7:16
42:4,16,19 92 50:8
42:20 941 52:16
10:1
1:9
51:2
46:5
2:7
2:4 51:22
27:17 36:7 46:25
8:13 47:15
52:2
3:22 4:3,11 32:16 40:1 41:11,14
42:8 43:3
11:2 42:13 52:12
41:20,21,22,23 42:12
9:22 10:2,4,11 11:2,8 52:8,11
45:5
12:22 14:21 35:23
43:21
43:22 44:3
43:19 44:7
7:1,13
7:1,13
44:18
42:22
19:19 20:2
25:20
2:10
3:22 4:3
41:25
52:10
10:4
