IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X
TIMOTHY STUART RING, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 01-488
ARIZONA. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X
Washington, D.C.
Monday, April 22, 2002
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at
11:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ANDREW D. HURWITZ, ESQ., Phoenix, Arizona; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
JANET NAPOLITANO, ESQ., Attorney General of Arizona;
Phoenix, Arizona; on behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ANDREW D. HURWITZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
JANET NAPOLITANO, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ANDREW D. HURWITZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 46
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument
next in No. 01-488, Timothy Stuart Ring v. Arizona.
Mr. Hurwitz.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW D. HURWITZ
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. HURWITZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In Apprendi v. New Jersey, this Court held that
the Sixth Amendment guarantee of jury trial extends to the
finding of any fact that exposes the defendant to a
greater sentence than he could have received on the basis
of the jury verdict alone. We submit that that principle
controls this case.
In Arizona, a defendant convicted of first
degree murder may be sentenced on the basis of the jury
verdict alone only to a sentence of life imprisonment.
The judge in Arizona has no power, no legal discretion
under the law to sentence a convicted first degree murder
defendant to death.
QUESTION: Well, if you're correct, Mr. Hurwitz,
I take it we would have to overrule not merely Walton, but
Clemons against Mississippi, Cabana against Bullock, and
Spaziano against Florida.
MR. HURWITZ: Your Honor, let me take those
cases separately because I do not think that at least two
of them are implicated by the position that we urge today.
Certainly Walton would be have to be -- would be
overruled because it's directly on point.
And certainly, to the extent that Spaziano says
that a judge may, in the first instance, make the finding
of fact to -- to -- of -- of an aggravating circumstance
in order to allow a death sentence, it would be also -- it
would be also implicated and overruled by the position we
urge today.
With respect to Clemons, Clemons was a case in
which a jury made findings of fact on multiple counts that
allowed a defendant to be sentenced to death, and the
issue on appeal was rather whether, one of more of those
factors having fallen out, the remaining factors could be
weighed against mitigating factors for purposes of
determining in the sentencing phase, the discretionary
phase of the -- of the capital punishment issue, whether
or not there could be imposed a capital punishment at that
point. So, I do not believe that Clemons is implicated by
our position today.
Rather, our point is very --
QUESTION: How about Cabana?
MR. HURWITZ: Cabana, Your Honor, I suggest is a
more difficult question. Its reasoning would be
implicated by our position today, but I -- as we suggested
in our brief, I think there is a distinction. In Cabana
-- or Cabana -- the issue was whether or not a particular
sentence, where all the facts necessary under State law
had been found by the jury, was unconstitutional as
applied to a particular defendant. That sort of as-
applied analysis is the kind of thing that judges
typically do. They look at the law and lay it next to the
facts of the case and determine whether or not that law,
as applied, is unconstitutional with respect to a
particular defendant or a particular sentence.
The issue posed by -- by this case and by
Apprendi is, I think, a quite different one. It is when
State law expressly requires a number of factors as a
prerequisite to the imposition of a particular penalty,
the maximum penalty allowed by law, whether or not the
State can systematically deny to defendants in those cases
the right to a jury trial.
QUESTION: What other States have schemes that
under your position would also fail the Apprendi test?
MR. HURWITZ: Your Honor, we -- I think we
attempted to summarize the -- the status on page 38 of our
brief. We think there are eight or nine States whose
systems would be implicated by this. But what is not
clear in all of those States -- and to take Florida as an
example, Your Honor -- is whether or not in a system
which, as this Court suggested in Jones, where the jury
makes, by implication or by necessity, a finding of a
particular aggravating factor in order to recommend a
death sentence, whether or not that system would -- would
be affected by the principle that we urge. Certainly
those States where there is no jury involved in finding
the necessary aggravating circumstance would be the ones
that would be implicated, and I would suggest that that
category is probably somewhat less than the category in
footnote 35 of our brief.
It is clear, however, that whatever the effect
on other States, Arizona's system precisely complies and
precisely matches up to the rule that this Court announced
in Apprendi. It is simply not possible in Arizona for a
judge to impose this sentence of death without first
finding a fact that Arizona's State law specifies is
necessary for the imposition of that maximum punishment.
And under that circumstance, we suggest there is no basis
for distinction of Apprendi.
Now, the State has suggested in this case that
one basis for a distinction is that the Arizona statute
says, within one single statute, the range of punishment,
the possible punishment for first degree murder is either
life -- life without possibility of parole, or death. But
I would suggest that distinction makes no difference.
Certainly in the Jones case, the precursor to
Apprendi, a case that this Court considered a year before
Apprendi, a single statute set forth the range of
punishment. In the Harris case, the case this Court
considered only several weeks ago, where the government
conceded that section 841, the drug statute, was covered
by Apprendi, several different punishments are set forth
in a single statute.
It is difficult to believe that Apprendi would
have been -- come out differently, that there would have
been a different result in that case, if the statute
instead read there's a possible punishment of 20 years for
discharging a firearm with racial motivation, but the last
5 years may not be imposed. You may not exceed 15 years
in the absence of racial motivation.
QUESTION: If we were to accept your position,
Mr. Hurwitz, what would it do to the Federal Sentencing
Guidelines?
MR. HURWITZ: Mr. Chief Justice, let me focus on
only one aspect of the sentencing guidelines because it
seems to me that there's no implication whatsoever for
downward departures and that the -- this Court has already
made clear, as the guidelines themselves say, that you
can't exceed the maximum sentence provided by the
underlying substantive statute.
So, if I can focus on the question of what would
happen --
QUESTION: Upward -- upward adjustments within
the maximum.
MR. HURWITZ: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. With
respect to those, I think there is a distinction, and let
me suggest it to the Court.
In Arizona, the -- the judge simply has no legal
power, no discretion, no ability whatsoever to impose a
sentence greater than life in the absence of finding a
particular aggravating circumstance specified by the State
in its statutes.
With respect to the sentencing guidelines, a
judge has discretion, and we know that because you review
sentencing decisions for abuse of discretion. So, the
judge has the legal discretion to impose a sentence in
excess of the so-called presumptive range upon the finding
or upon noting in the record any number of particular
facts, not specified by statute.
QUESTION: Yes, but he didn't -- it's a strange
kind of discretion that can be reversed on appeal. He
doesn't have discretion. The whole purpose of the
guidelines is to eliminate the discretion, to say you must
give this sentence if these factors exist.
MR. HURWITZ: Justice Scalia, my point is, I
think, that in our case the judge has no power at all. He
can never find -- he can never exceed that particular
limit, the limit being life, in the absence of -- in the
absence of finding a fact specified by the State, a fact
chosen by the State as necessary to impose the sentence.
The sentencing guidelines strike me as somewhat
distinguishable because the range of factors that a judge
may choose to depart upwards is -- is by the guidelines
relatively unlimited.
QUESTION: Well, in -- in this case, the
aggravating fact was killing for pecuniary gain.
MR. HURWITZ: Correct, Justice --
QUESTION: And that was clearly implicit, if not
explicit, in the jury's finding.
MR. HURWITZ: I -- I would suggest neither in
this case, Your Honor.
QUESTION: They didn't find a robbery?
MR. HURWITZ: The jury found a robbery, but
under Arizona law, as the cases make quite clear, in order
in a felony murder case for there to be a finding of
pecuniary gain, or in any murder case to be a finding of
pecuniary gain, there must be a showing that the murder
itself was motivated by a desire for pecuniary gain. And
the Arizona Supreme Court has said on three or four
occasions it is not enough that a murder was committed in
connection with a robbery or, indeed, even in connection
with a felony murder. The issue is motivation for the
particular homicide.
In this case, the Arizona Supreme Court said
expressly we can't tell from the trial record why the
driver was killed. There is virtually no evidence in this
trial record as to why the driver was killed. It was on
the record made in the post-trial proceedings, the record
made on the basis of the accomplice testimony, that the
Arizona Supreme Court concluded that.
So, in this case when the Arizona Supreme Court
says two things -- one is the issue for pecuniary gain is
whether or not there has been proof of the motivation for
the murder, and second, in this case we can't tell why the
person was murdered -- I would suggest there is neither a
necessary, implicit, or even logical finding by the jury
in this case of -- of pecuniary gain. The Arizona Supreme
Court I think addressed that issue quite straightforwardly
and directly.
Now, the State suggests that one distinction
between this case and Apprendi is the idea that these
aggravating circumstances are so-called sentencing
factors, not elements of the crime. But I think that --
that argument was answered in Apprendi.
What this Court said in Apprendi was that the
real test is not one of labels. The real test is one of
function. Is this a fact that is necessary under the
State law to allow the judge to sentence somebody to the
maximum sentence provided by law? And plainly it is, and
whether you call these aggravating circumstances
sentencing enhancements or whether you call them elements,
you arrive, I would suggest, at the same result. This
case on its face is covered by Apprendi.
One way to -- one way to -- to get into that
issue is to -- is to imagine the following circumstance.
Let's assume that Arizona law, instead of providing
precisely what it does now, said instead that the penalty
for first degree murder is life without -- is life with
possibility of parole. But that penalty may be increased
to life without possibility of parole upon finding of one
of 10 specific aggravating circumstances, so that we had
exactly the same statute that we have now, but at the
first level you get life with possibility of parole after
25 years, and at this next level, you got life without
possibility of parole. I don't think there could be any
doubt, under those circumstances that on its face the rule
this Court set forth in Apprendi would apply.
QUESTION: I think that's true, and I think that
in the -- in the normal circumstance when a State does
something like that, even if it is not calling it an
element of the crime, it is an element of the crime.
What we have here, however, this -- this statute
was enacted in -- in what? '73?
MR. HURWITZ: Initially in '73, Justice Scalia.
QUESTION: Which was the year after Furman. And
what Arizona was saying was, you know, we -- we never
thought we had to have any finding of aggravated --
aggravating factors in order to impose the death penalty,
but the Supreme Court, in a decision that -- that had no
-- no rooting in the common law, said that we cannot
impose capital punishment without aggravating
circumstances. Okay. We'll make a finding of aggravating
circumstances necessary and we'll have that finding made
by a judge.
Now, I -- I don't regard that as Arizona
adopting the aggravating circumstance as an element of the
crime, nor does the statute read that way. So, you're --
you're talking about something that is unprecedented in --
in the common law. You're talking about a finding that
has been mandated by the Supreme Court and the issue is
whether the finding mandated by the Supreme Court has to
be made by the jury or -- or the judge. And we've said in
several cases that it's enough if it's made by the judge.
Now, why isn't --
MR. HURWITZ: Justice --
QUESTION: -- why isn't that enough to resolve
the case?
MR. HURWITZ: Justice Scalia, if the -- if the
point here is that the State was forced to do this and,
therefore, this cannot be an element under the Apprendi
test, I would suggest that presents several analytical
problems.
The first is that this Court has said on any
number of occasions to the States, here is something that
must be in your law. The very same term that this Court
decided Furman or the year before, it decided Miller, and
in Miller it said if you want to have a constitutional
obscenity law, State, you must have a specific definition
in that State -- in the law of the kind of conduct that
you wish to -- to punish, the kind of -- the depiction of
the kind of conduct that you wish to punish. We're not
telling you, States, by the way, what specific factor you
have to have. You decide. Here are some suggestions.
Arizona, the year after Miller was decided,
amended its statutes to add to its obscenity laws a
specific requirement with respect to proof of specific
types of sexual conduct. This Court made them do that.
The Constitution made them do that. But I do not believe
it would be suggested that those specific elements of the
crime, those specific factors that are necessary to impose
the maximum punishment allowed by law, are somehow
exempted from the Sixth Amendment for that reason.
QUESTION: No, but in -- in the -- in the
obscenity field, we didn't invite the kind of procedure
that -- that was adopted here by -- by establishing a
separate -- a separate category, the -- you know, the --
the guilt phase and the penalty phase. We -- we invited
the -- the severing of the trial into those -- into those
two portions. And it seems to me it's up to us whether
the constitutional requirement that we've imposed upon the
States requires a finding by the judge or a finding by the
jury. It's -- it's simply not was simple as to say, well,
it's an element of the crime and therefore has to be found
by the jury. It's -- it's rather what does the -- what
does the Constitution, as interpreted by this Court,
demand.
MR. HURWITZ: Justice Scalia, let me -- let me
come at that at -- at two levels.
The first one is I think the basic
constitutional principle that underlies the Sixth
Amendment. And that principle, as this Court articulated
in both Jones and Apprendi, is the notion that before
you're handed over to the State and before the State is
allowed to exact the maximum punishment permitted by law,
a jury of your peers is allowed to you to find those facts
to put the State in that position. Certainly that
principle is directly implicated by the death penalty
situation on its face. So, this underlying Sixth
Amendment principle strikes me as no different.
With respect to bifurcation, there is, of
course, no constitutional requirement that the aggravating
circumstances be found in a penalty phase of the trial.
This Court has made clear on any number of occasions that
the aggravating circumstances, these so-called narrowing
circumstances, the facts necessary under State law to
allow the imposition of a death penalty can be found in
the so-called guilt phase of the trial.
QUESTION: But if -- if Apprendi was based on a
long common law history, as -- as it certainly seems to
have been, wouldn't that distinguish it from the
aggravating/mitigating, which certainly is not based on
common law history at all?
MR. HURWITZ: Mr. Chief Justice, it strikes me
that the common law history here makes the central
principle. The central principle in the common law
history is, after all, the one that Apprendi and Jones
articulate about the protection of the Sixth Amendment.
The procedure faced in Apprendi was not known at the
common law. The procedure of having a specific
aggravating factor that might enhance a sentence was
unknown to the common law. Yet, this Court in Apprendi
said the basic Sixth Amendment principle that underlies -
underlied the adoption of the Sixth Amendment in 1791
should apply to this circumstance. I think that's --
QUESTION: Mr. Hurwitz, may I ask why you have
-- you have certainly made a case about the aggravating
circumstances, but you haven't put, as part of that case,
the so-called Enmund/Tison findings. And it seems to me
that if in Arizona someone can be put to death only if he
was the triggerman, or was a -- what is the other phrase,
a major participant, you haven't made anything of those
factors, and I think if -- if the aggravating factor has
to be found by the jury, then surely those would have to
be as well.
MR. HURWITZ: Justice Ginsburg, that may well be
the case. As I think I suggested in response to the Chief
Justice's initial question, it -- it has struck us that
there is a difference between the sort of as-applied
analysis that an Enmund/Tison finding requires, a
proportionality analysis, and the issue of whether the
State systematically denies with respect to a particular
factor that it's picked out, and nothing in this Court's
jurisprudence required the State to adopt any particular
aggravating circumstance.
With respect to those particular factors, it
strikes us that's at the core of Apprendi. I don't resist
the suggestion that perhaps the principle in Apprendi
extends farther, and it extends to -- to the Enmund/Tison
findings. What I do suggest is that -- is that the core
of Apprendi, the very central holding of the case
necessarily extends to facts which the State itself has
said in its statutes are necessary in order to find -- in
order to allow the maximum punishment to be imposed by
law.
QUESTION: But -- but the other factor you
haven't discussed is the mitigating circumstances.
MR. HURWITZ: Correct, Justice Kennedy.
QUESTION: The common law, in defining elements,
doesn't usually have some factors on the other side that
-- that are mitigating. Perhaps -- perhaps you can
suggest some examples where they do. But again, this goes
very much, it seems to me, to show that this is part of
our Eighth Amendment protections that have been mandated.
In Apprendi, the judge could always, once he or she found
the racial animus, enhance the sentence; in fact, had to.
Here there's still a balancing that has to take place and
-- and that -- that certainly is -- is not something
classically reserved for the function and province of the
jury.
MR. HURWITZ: And that's -- that's correct,
Justice Kennedy, and we don't suggest that mitigating
circumstances or circumstances that suggest leniency must
be found by the jury. It has always been the case that
once the judge was empowered to enter the maximum sentence
allowed by law, that judge could consider whatever factors
or the State could consider, in -- in whatever form it did
so, those factors that might provide for a sentence of
less than the maximum sentence allowed by law.
QUESTION: What about that kind of argument that
initially Justices Stewart and Powell and Stevens have
made, that there's a necessary connection between the
determination that death in a case is not cruel and
unusual and the jury is doing the weighing in order to
show that it reflects a community sentiment in that
community that the death penalty is not cruel and unusual?
MR. HURWITZ: And, Justice Breyer, had this
Court accepted that as -- as a correct statement of the
Eighth Amendment, we obviously wouldn't be here today.
We're operating -- we're operating with the constraints of
this Court's decisions which have said that kind of jury
weighing, that kind of jury sentencing is not required
by --
QUESTION: Were it up to you, you would make
that argument if you felt it was open.
MR. HURWITZ: If it were open, it's an argument
we might make, but it is --
QUESTION: Well, presumably you would make any
argument that's open to you.
MR. HURWITZ: We're open.
(Laughter.)
MR. HURWITZ: To be sure, Mr. Chief Justice.
But -- but my point is it's not an argument we
need make in this case. We are not suggesting that jury
sentencing is required. We are suggesting that jury fact
finding is required.
And if I might, let me suggest the difficulties
of adopting a rule that somehow has one -- one approach if
something was done pre 1972 and another one after. If
Arizona had adopted this very same statute identically
worded in 1965, when the ALI first suggested it as a
possibility to the States, it seems to me clear, on the
basis of Apprendi, that the aggravating circumstances
would be elements, or at least sentencing enhancements, as
the Court said, and required to be found by the jury.
QUESTION: But if it adopted the statute in
1965, it could have simply had the exact language that it
had and said the decision as to whether death or life is
simply up to the discretion of the judge, and it would
have been perfectly okay.
MR. HURWITZ: Because Apprendi and Jones had not
been decided at that time, Mr. Chief Justice.
QUESTION: And because Furman had not been
decided.
MR. HURWITZ: To be sure. But my point is that
if this Court -- this Court will enact an unworkable
system if what it does is start looking at State statutes
and trying to determine whether or not particular factors
in those statutes arose in response to Furman, before
Furman, after Furman.
One example is suggested in our brief. The
State of New York in the mid-1960s determined to narrow
its capital punishment laws and apply them only when the
victim was a peace officer. Arizona made that decision in
1988. Was Arizona's decision in response to a mandate
from this Court, or was Arizona's decision because, as New
York, it made a policy decision?
QUESTION: Arizona has decided to apply its
capital punishment only to when the victim was a peace
officer?
MR. HURWITZ: No. That's one of the -- one of
the narrowing circumstances in Arizona law. And my -- my
point, Mr. Chief Justice, is let's assume two States, one
of which made that decision in 1965, and another one made
that decision in 1988, and it was the only aggravating
circumstance that that State had adopted. Would this
Court then say, with respect to State number one, the
aggravating --
QUESTION: But here it's a whole procedure
designed to have express mitigation and -- and aggravation
to be considered by the same trier of fact and balanced.
And you -- you seem to give again very -- very little
force to the mitigation aspect.
MR. HURWITZ: Justice Kennedy, I don't mean to.
I think it is entirely appropriate and entirely possible
for a State to design that weighing and that mitigation
issue to a -- to a jury. But this Court has made clear,
not only in this context, but in other contexts, that --
that a defendant is not entitled to a jury trial to
establish mitigation from the maximum sentence that the
law might allow.
Once again, I would return, I think, to the
underlying Sixth Amendment principle, as this Court stated
it in Jones and Apprendi. The notion was in 1791 that
before a defendant was put, in effect, into the tender
mercies of the State to be -- to be subjected to whatever
sentence the law might allow, first that defendant got the
right to have a jury of his peers find the facts that were
necessary to do so. He did not have the right at that
time to have a jury of his peers find whatever facts might
persuade the sentencer to give him less than the maximum
allowed by law.
So, I would suggest that when you return to the
underlying Sixth Amendment principle here, it does provide
a distinction between facts that would call for leniency
and facts that -- that are necessary under the State's law
to impose a particular sentence.
QUESTION: Except that Arizona has designed its
system, and you could design other systems, but it's
designed its system in order to sort out the most culpable
offenders and it uses this balancing mechanism.
MR. HURWITZ: Well, I would separate, Justice
Kennedy, the two parts of the death penalty process.
There is a sorting at the front end. There is a
narrowing that is required in order to determine which
defendants among all those convicted of homicide are, in
effect, the most culpable and can be sentenced to death.
There is a second proceeding. The second
proceeding is the sentencing proceeding. And what this
Court has made clear is that with respect to that first
proceeding, there must be specified facts. That's the
Furman analysis. And that's the aggravating circumstance
that we contend is required under the Constitution to be
found by the jury.
With respect to the second decision, this Court
has made plain on any number of occasions that that can be
made a discretionary decision for the judge.
Proportionality measurements are no longer required at
that level. What this Court has said, however, is you
just have to let the defendant have the opportunity at
that circumstance to argue for individualized treatment or
to argue about leniency, to bring the facts pertinent to
his case to the attention of the court. So, I would
suggest it is at this first stage, this narrowing stage,
that the Apprendi principle applies.
QUESTION: What you're saying is you're not
entitled to a finding of -- of mitigation. You are
entitled to a finding of -- of aggravation.
MR. HURWITZ: Precisely so, Justice Scalia. And
I -- and I think not only are you not entitled to it, but
-- but there is nothing in this Court's jurisprudence that
requires that the State specify a particular fact in
mitigation.
Here we have facts chosen perhaps under the
compulsion of the Constitution, but nonetheless chosen by
the State as necessary prerequisites to the punishment.
Unless the Court has other questions, I will
reserve the balance of my time.
QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Hurwitz.
General Napolitano, we'll hear from you.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JANET NAPOLITANO
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. NAPOLITANO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Opposing counsel began with Apprendi, but let me
take up on the suggestion by Justice Scalia that this case
really begins with Furman because after Furman, the States
were left with the mandate that death penalty decisions
could not be left unguided under the Eighth Amendment, but
requires a standard of judgment.
Some States imposed mandatory death sentences, a
practice this Court later found unconstitutional. In
contrast, Arizona amended its death penalty statute to
comply with Furman by adding a series of factors which the
judge would take into account in choosing between the
alternative punishments of life or death.
In Walton, this Court fully considered and
upheld the constitutionality of Arizona's law. The
question now is whether at this late date Apprendi
requires you to overrule Walton. And the answer is no.
Apprendi is a Sixth Amendment issue. Furman, Walton, and
this case Ring concern the Eighth Amendment.
In addition, principles of stare decisis are
heavily implicated here because, as Chief Justice
Rehnquist mentioned, there have been any number of
precedents in this Court that would be implicitly, if not
explicitly, overruled should this Court overrule Walton.
Let me, if I might, turn to two important
distinctions between Ring and -- and Apprendi. One is
substantive and one I would call formal.
The substantive distinction is this. The
sentencing statute in Arizona derived from Furman. It was
passed in 1973. The pecuniary gain aggravating factor was
one of the original aggravating factors in that statute.
There was never a -- a suggestion that Arizona was playing
a game, moving something that previously had been an
element into the sentencing factor side of the statute.
There's never been any suggestion that this was anything
other than a way to decide which of all first degree
murders deserve the death penalty.
QUESTION: Are we going to have to try to figure
that out case by case with -- with respect to every
State's statute, as Mr. Hurwitz suggested we -- we would
have to do?
MS. NAPOLITANO: Your Honor, I think --
QUESTION: I mean, what about the New York
statute that -- you know, that makes an aggravating
circumstance the death of a -- of a peace officer?
MS. NAPOLITANO: Your Honor, I think what you
have to do is just look at what was the underlying first
degree murder statute, what is the underlying statute
which gives rise to the possibility of a death penalty.
In Arizona, the underlying first degree murder
statute has been the same since 1901, and in fact, around
the country, most first degree murder statutes can trace
their routes to England in terms of how they are defined,
the mens rea, the actus reus, and the causation
requirements.
QUESTION: But you're --
MS. NAPOLITANO: It's not a difficult process to
go through.
QUESTION: But you're saying -- the implication
of what you're saying is that any, in effect, departure or
innovation in the modern law which doesn't have a clear
antecedent, at least as of the time of the -- of the
framing, is exempt -- is a fact exempt from the jury trial
requirement. I mean, that's -- that -- we'd have to adopt
that rule in order to see it your way.
MS. NAPOLITANO: No. No, Your Honor, you would
not have to adopt such a blanket rule. What I am
suggesting is this. In a situation where you have a
statutory scheme that quite clearly, plainly, and
unequivocally derives from this Court's Eighth Amendment
jurisprudence, some of the Sixth Amendment questions that
were raised in Apprendi are not implicated. And you can
make --
QUESTION: So, if the State comes up with a new
condition, the jury trial guarantee applies. If this
Court comes up with it, for whatever reason, it does not
apply.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Not necessarily, Your Honor.
And it gets you into the discussion of what is the intent
of the legislature, what does it mean to be an element of
the crime in the first place. But under --
QUESTION: Why -- why does it matter whether
it's an element or not? I mean, doesn't Apprendi say call
it an element, call it a factor, we don't care what you
call it? If it's a fact necessary, et cetera, it's got to
be found by the jury.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Well, I think in -- in looking
at McMillan and Jones and Apprendi and that whole line,
there has been a question created by this Court as what is
an element because if it's an element, what this Court has
said is it has to be charged, it has to be proved beyond a
reasonable doubt, and it has to go to the jury. If it's a
sentencing factor, if it's -- if that's what's going on,
those requirements do not apply.
QUESTION: Well, let me -- let me go back. I --
in effect, I sort of put you off track here. You -- you
were saying that there isn't a simple distinction on your
theory between facts added by a legislature and facts
required by this Court. So, tell me -- tell me why there
isn't such a distinction as -- as you're arguing it now.
MS. NAPOLITANO: What we're arguing, Your Honor,
is that when a fact is found purely for the purpose of
sentencing -- and -- and recognize the fact here murder
for pecuniary gain was never a part of the definition of
first degree murder. First degree murder is the
intentional killing of another or a felony murder with
certain underlying felony predicates. The jury found that
here. It was charged here. There was a death notice in
the actual indictment.
QUESTION: Right.
MS. NAPOLITANO: The jury was death qualified.
So, there's no question of surprise here.
QUESTION: Well, are you -- are you saying then
that if a legislature adds a fact -- call it an element if
you want -- purely for purposes of determining the
sentence, that that too would be exempt from the -- the
guarantee of the jury trial?
MS. NAPOLITANO: I think it could be exempt
depending on the circumstances, yes, Your Honor.
QUESTION: But would it be -- I mean, is that
the theory that you're arguing?
MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes that there are --
QUESTION: I just want to know what you're --
you're arguing.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes, Your Honor. I'm sorry.
That there are some facts that the legislature is entitled
to find which don't go to the definition of the crime but
go to the punishment. And this Court has never held that
there's a Sixth Amendment right to jury sentencing.
QUESTION: What -- what do you do with the
broader principle which we express from time to time that
the -- the ultimate point of the jury right in -- in a
criminal case is to -- is to place the jury between the
defendant and the State? If -- if that's a fair
statement, then you're saying, well, only part way between
the defendant and the State.
MS. NAPOLITANO: In the death penalty context,
Your Honor, this Court has already limited the kind of
offenses for which the death penalty can even be a
possibility. So, you don't have the kind of broad ranging
legislative discretion that you would in another
circumstance. That's why I say you -- you -- in those
kinds of non-death cases, you may have to do a different
kind of analysis.
But in the unique context of the death penalty
world where you have to have either a first degree murder
or a felony murder -- and if it's a felony murder and you
have a non-shooter, you have to make the Enmund/Tison
finding, and that has to be made and can be made by the
judge -- there -- the legislature is not -- they're not
charging the death penalty for jaywalking.
And then the question is, all right, is the
legislature entitled under the Eighth Amendment or does
the legislature under the Eighth Amendment have to channel
discretion? And they do.
And then the question is, does Apprendi somehow
require that that Eighth Amendment jurisprudence be
converted into a jury right on this -- on the aggravating
factors? And as this Court has said time and time again,
no, starting with Proffitt v. Florida all the way through
Walton. Poland v. Arizona is a great example where --
QUESTION: But -- but your -- your principle, in
fact, is broader than that because, as I understand it,
your principle is that what we have traditionally referred
to as sentencing factors -- maybe change that to a neutral
term, facts that bear solely on sentencing -- they can be
excluded from the -- the jury finding guarantee.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes. In the unique context of
the death penalty and then it remains for this Court to
decide whether you want to broaden it. But the rule
proposed by the petitioner here would be equally broad
taken out of the death penalty context because you could
have no fact that enhanced a sentence that didn't first
have to be found by a jury.
And in response to a question that was posed
earlier, that would throw into question the Federal
Sentencing Guidelines and their structure and -- any many
State sentencing structures where, once you are convicted
of a particular offense, the State law requires the judge
to give you a presumptive sentence unless he finds
additional facts, in which case he can depart upwards.
It's not just the Federal Sentencing Guidelines that use
that structure. Many States use that structure. So, if
you are to hold that an aggravating factor even in a death
penalty case has to go to the jury, it is hard to imagine
why that wouldn't extend throughout the sentencing systems
of the States.
QUESTION: General Napolitano, how many death
sentence case are there presently in Arizona that would be
affected by a reversal here?
MS. NAPOLITANO: We've had 89 death sentences
imposed since Walton, and approximately 30 are in some
type of direct review. So, it's a substantial number, and
that's just in -- in Arizona.
QUESTION: Maybe Apprendi throws into play some
of those earlier cases, even if you don't agree with
Apprendi or feel it's quite limited.
What about the other cases I mentioned where
Powell and -- and Stewart -- Stevens all thought that a
jury should make this determination as part of the Eighth
Amendment jurisprudence because it's very important that
the death penalty be applied only where opinion in that
community believes that it is consistent with the cruel
and unusual punishment prohibition?
MS. NAPOLITANO: Two responses to that, Your
Honor. One is this Court itself in a later case mentioned
that they thought judicial sentencing may, in fact, be a
better way to guarantee against the arbitrary imposition
of the death penalty.
QUESTION: The statistics seem to suggest that
it is absolutely no reason to think that.
MS. NAPOLITANO: The statistics seem to suggest
that there is absolutely no reason to think that jury
sentencing is any different, that they're a wash. But
there hasn't been a lot of literature on this subject.
And --
QUESTION: Well, yes, but there has -- there was
a long -- you know, Potter Stewart went into all of this.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes.
QUESTION: Go ahead. I don't want to interrupt
you. I'm sorry.
MS. NAPOLITANO: But --
QUESTION: I want to hear your answer. Now,
please go ahead.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Well, the jury is involved in
this case. The jury is a protector in this case. This
was an indicted case, indicted for first degree murder.
That went to the grand jury. It was then presented to the
petit jury. They made the determination about the felony
murder. They weighed the evidence. They knew or were on
notice that this was a death case. The jury right was
embraced here, just as it was pre Furman. The only
difference is the post-Furman addition of the sentencing
factors.
QUESTION: No. The difference is that the
individual juror does not have to take the individual
responsibility of saying I as a human being have decided
that this person should be sentenced to death. Now,
that's quite a difference.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Your Honor, even under
petitioner's argument, an addition -- and a -- and a juror
may not have to make that decision because even
petitioner's argument says, we just want them to find a
fact.
QUESTION: That's true.
MS. NAPOLITANO: We still say it's okay for the
judge --
QUESTION: I -- I grant you that. That's why --
MS. NAPOLITANO: So, go ahead and do the
weighing and so forth.
QUESTION: I -- I -- you're quite right on that.
That's why I want to see what the answer to the full
argument is on your part.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Well, the answer is that the
jury here is embraced and is performing the function of
juries that has come down from colonial times or pre-
colonial times. There's nothing different. The jury has
to find intent to kill. The jury has to find a death.
The jury has to find causation. The instructions are the
same to the jury.
QUESTION: But it could make all those findings
and it would not authorize the death penalty.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Excuse me?
QUESTION: It could make all those findings that
you just recited, and yet the law of Arizona would not
permit the imposition of the death penalty.
MS. NAPOLITANO: The jury verdict at that case,
under that part of our statute, would say that the maximum
death penalty is death. But you're right, Justice. It
can't be enforced until the judge conducts the second
sentencing hearing.
QUESTION: Unless the judge makes an additional
finding of fact.
MS. NAPOLITANO: He must find an aggravating
fact and then he can find -- weigh those against the
mitigators and make the determination as to whether death
is the appropriate punishment.
But again, this is part of the process this
Court has dictated to the States to determine which of the
worst murders deserve the worst penalty.
QUESTION: General Napolitano, the -- the
expanded argument that Justice Breyer is -- is suggesting,
which -- which isn't urged by Mr. Hurwitz, is really an
Eighth Amendment argument rather than a Sixth Amendment
argument, isn't it? That is, the fact that the jury
should also be required to do the weighing and to make the
final determination that this person deserves the death
penalty. That's not a Sixth Amendment argument; it's an
Eighth Amendment.
MS. NAPOLITANO: I think it could be construed
as an Eighth Amendment argument, yes, Your Honor.
And -- and as I said at the beginning of my
argument, this whole situation, this whole statute derives
from Furman and from the Eighth Amendment. It does not
implicate the Sixth Amendment or the concerns that were
expressed in Apprendi.
And let me, if I might, go to the stare decisis
part of my argument, because it's not just the cases you
listed, Your Honor, that I think would be implicitly
overruled, but let me give you a list: Proffitt v.
Florida, Spaziano, Cabana v. Bullock, which does allow
the --
QUESTION: But do you think it's perfectly clear
-- you cite a couple of Florida cases -- that if the
Florida advisory jury made the findings of fact that would
be -- make them -- the defendant eligible for the death
penalty, that that case would be covered by the decision
in this case?
MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes, and I think it's important
to understand how the Florida system works under Florida
law. What happens is after conviction, the jury hears a
separate sentencing proceeding.
QUESTION: Correct.
MS. NAPOLITANO: And it comes out with really a
unitary form, and all that form says is life or death. It
does not specify which aggravating facts the jury may have
found or which mitigating facts the jury may have found.
And then the trial judge takes that form --
QUESTION: But supposing it did just to -- just
to go with me on the -- on the hypo.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Okay.
QUESTION: Supposing, as a part of the
procedure, the judge did require the jury to accompany its
recommendation with a finding of fact as to the
aggravating circumstance. Would that then be covered by
this case?
MS. NAPOLITANO: I think it would, Your Honor,
because you're still allowing the judge to make the final
determination. And if the judge is able to disagree on
the facts --
QUESTION: But that's the Eighth Amendment
issue. The judge is making the final determination but
not necessarily -- but it would be supported by a jury
finding that was sufficient to authorize the death
penalty.
MS. NAPOLITANO: In this case, the jury finding
of first degree felony murder authorized the death
penalty. The question was, could it be imposed and what
is the -- what is the way to do --
QUESTION: It doesn't authorize it without an
additional finding by the judge.
MS. NAPOLITANO: It authorizes the judge to go
forward and conduct a separate sentencing hearing.
QUESTION: In some -- in some States, it's my
understanding that the jury simply makes a finding that
the aggravating circumstances outweigh the mitigating
circumstances without specifying either. Now, would that
be affected, at least by Justice Breyer's argument?
MS. NAPOLITANO: I think it -- it could
conceivably. I mean, I -- you know, what we're dealing
with here is a very difficult --
QUESTION: But -- but isn't it clear that the
aggravating circumstances could not outweigh the
mitigating circumstances unless there were a finding of at
least one aggravating circumstance?
MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes.
QUESTION: Which in turn --
MS. NAPOLITANO: But you could have --
QUESTION: -- would make him eligible for the
death penalty.
MS. NAPOLITANO: I -- yes, Your Honor, but you
could have the situation such as a State like Florida
where the judge doesn't know what aggravating circumstance
was found, and you're still --
QUESTION: Well, he doesn't know which is found,
but he knows that one is found. It seems to me if you say
that's not enough, then you are making the Stewart Eighth
Amendment argument, aren't you?
MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes. And -- and the -- the
problem there is if the Eighth -- if an aggravating
circumstance is found by a jury and the judge doesn't know
what it is, and the judge still has to go through all of
the evidence and do the weighing as to what weight that
aggravating circumstance should find versus the
mitigating, the basic -- one basic question is, well, what
is the function of the jury there anyway? What is the
protection the Sixth Amendment is providing to a defendant
there?
And I would suggest that a defendant such as
Ring and such as a defendant in Florida has already
received all the protections that the Sixth Amendment
entitles him or her to. And all that is going on here is
a narrowing process where the judge's discretion is
actually being narrowed in sentencing, not broadened. In
Apprendi, you could actually say the discretion was being
broadened, the same as in Jones, but it is being narrowed.
QUESTION: Yes, but it's narrowed to the extent
that he now knows he must make an additional -- one single
additional finding of fact in order to put this man to
death, which is -- the jury has not made that finding of
fact.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Well, yes, Your Honor, at a --
at a statutory level in Arizona that is absolutely true.
QUESTION: That's what your Supreme Court says
is the case here.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes.
Now, in -- in the Ring case, there -- there is
the issue of the fact that he was convicted of armed
robbery and conspiracy to commit armed robbery.
QUESTION: May I ask if you disagree with your
opponent's analysis of the pecuniary circumstance issue?
He says that there's a difference between armed robbery on
the one hand which is for a pecuniary purpose and the
pecuniary motivation in a death case, and that has to be
the motivation for the killing itself, is that the robbery
-- robbery alone would not satisfy that. Do you disagree
with that?
MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes, Your Honor. And I would
cite the -- this Court to State v. Gretzler which is cited
in our brief.
But on the record before this Court and on
the --
QUESTION: You'd cite State v. Gretzler to the
Court.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes. It's in our brief, Your
Honor. It's an Arizona Supreme Court case.
But I would also add that in this case, based on
the trial transcript and the sentencing hearing
transcript, which are part of the joint appendix before
the Court, it's very clear that the reason Mr. Magoch was
killed was because he unfortunately was the driver of an
armored car that Mr. Ring decided to rob.
QUESTION: I -- I agree when you say sentencing
transcript, but what about just the guilt phase
transcript? Would you make the same -- the same --
MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes, I would, Your Honor
QUESTION: -- draw the same conclusion?
MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes, Your Honor, and -- and I
think that's why the jury convicted him of armed robbery
and conspiracy to commit armed robbery and rendered a
unanimous verdict on the felony murder portion even though
they didn't render a unanimous verdict on the
premeditated --
QUESTION: General Napolitano, will you correct
me if I'm wrong about this, but I thought that the proof
at the trial itself didn't even place the defendant at the
scene of the crime. Certainly he was involved in planning
it. They -- but they didn't even place him at the scene
of the crime at the trial. That didn't come up until
sentencing when the co-defendant testified. So, how could
the jury have made the finding that he killed for
pecuniary gain when he wasn't even at the scene?
MS. NAPOLITANO: Your Honor, it goes to the fact
that he was at a minimum a major -- major conspirator in a
conspiracy that resulted in the death of an armored car
driver. The purpose of the conspiracy was to rob the
armored car. The jury, by finding the armored car
robbery, the -- the membership in the conspiracy, and then
the sentencing court and then later the Arizona Supreme
Court making the Enmund/Tison finding impliedly, if not
explicitly, proved the pecuniary gain issue.
But if there's any question for this Court on
that point, and should you be inclined to overrule Walton,
which you should not, that's a matter that always could be
remanded back to the State Supreme Court for further
explanation.
QUESTION: Would you tell me how one would
explain to a citizen that you can't get 5 years added on
to your sentence unless the jury makes the critical
finding, but you can be put to death with the judge making
the critical finding?
MS. NAPOLITANO: Because, Your Honor, the -- the
difference is what is the source of the punishment. Where
does it come from? What is the source of the sentencing
at issue? And in the prior situation, in a -- in a non-
death penalty case, what the Court has been doing and what
Apprendi does is expand the range of the jury trial. But
what the Court has not done is expand the Eighth Amendment
protections that it -- that it incorporated onto the
original elements of first degree murder for death penalty
cases and say not only are these Eighth Amendment issues,
now we're going to even transfer it further and make them
Sixth Amendment issues. And -- and the implications are
large.
QUESTION: It seems to me that you're making a
novel application of the principle we've repeated several
times, that death is different.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Death is different.
QUESTION: Yes.
MS. NAPOLITANO: I mean, there's no doubt about
it, Your Honor. And -- and your jurisprudence has said
that. But, you know, you don't have this kind of
elaborate sentencing procedure in a non-death case either.
I mean, this is all driven by -- by Furman and all of
Furman's progeny to make sure that we are getting the
right defendants and imposing the right penalty on those
defendants. And that's an Eighth Amendment issue and has
not been, by this Court, expanded to the Sixth Amendment.
And -- and again, if this Court were to overrule
Walton and reopen all of the cases in Arizona, at least
that are on direct review and in the other States, it's
hard to imagine how you then would not also have to
overrule Clemons, Hildwin, Poland, all the cases we've
cited to the Court before, because they all recognize and
state that these cases are different and that there is a
separate rule for the judge in these kinds of cases.
QUESTION: The -- the difference obviously is
that, of course, it's different. It's worse, not better.
So, the obvious argument is that if you're going to insist
that a jury find a fact that could enhance a sentence from
10 years to 15, surely a jury, when you're under the
Eighth Amendment or the Sixth Amendment, should find the
fact that could enhance the sentence from life in prison
to death. I mean, I think that's what it's --
MS. NAPOLITANO: Well, I think that's --
QUESTION: -- is the underlying point here.
MS. NAPOLITANO: I think that's petitioner's
basic argument, and -- and our response is it's more
complicated than that. That doesn't really answer the
question because in the death penalty world, the case law
is different, the tradition is different. This is all a
creation of Supreme Court precedent, really not of the
common law as it came down through colonial times. And
what is going on here are additional protections for a
defendant, not fewer protections for a defendant.
And remember, in this case, you know, if you
just took the -- the literal language of Apprendi and --
and didn't go beneath it, and you took the literal
language of the Arizona first degree murder statute, the
maximum penalty under the statute is death, and the judge
is simply making a choice between life or death. And the
jury's verdict authorizes the judge to go forward and
enter into that sentencing proceeding. And that is a
procedure that this Court has embraced, upheld, and
specifically said does not violate the Sixth Amendment.
QUESTION: Would you comment on your opponent's
suggestion that that would apply to other statutes like
the drug statute? The maximum penalty under the same
statute is life in prison and so forth, but nevertheless,
Apprendi applies. Or Apprendi itself -- supposing the two
-- instead of two statutes, there had been one. Would
that have made a difference?
MS. NAPOLITANO: You know, in the statutory
analysis that Apprendi suggests, part of that analysis is
you have to look at each statute and how it was
constructed and so forth. I don't know whether
automatically it would apply because, again, as I've made
the argument today, the Eighth Amendment death penalty
cases just are different.
But, again, if you overrule Walton, it -- it is
hard to imagine how any judge would have the authority
under the Sixth Amendment to find any kind of fact that
would be used to enhance a sentence. And if that's what
Apprendi is supposed to mean, that's a very, very broad
ruling.
QUESTION: To -- to enhance a sentence beyond
that which was otherwise authorized by law by the jury's
verdict.
MS. NAPOLITANO: Well, or enhance a sentence
beyond the presumptive sentence, because what's the
difference between a sentence authorized and a presumptive
sentence set forth in either guidelines or in legislation?
We're cutting very fine hairs here.
And I think the ultimate question is, what is
the role of a jury? Was that jury's role embraced by
Arizona? Yes. Did the role of the jury in this case
change at any time from what it was pre-Furman to post-
Furman? No. Did the jury in this case know it was a
death case? Yes. Did the defendant know it was a death
case? Yes. Everyone knew it was a death case. There's
no surprise. There's no adding on at the end, oh, by the
way, we're going to ask for an additional 10- to 20-year
enhancement like they did in Apprendi or an additional 10-
year enhancement as in Jones. None of that happened.
This was a death case from the beginning and it should be
a death case now.
Thank you, Your Honors.
QUESTION: Thank you, General Napolitano.
Mr. Hurwitz, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW D. HURWITZ
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
QUESTION: Mr. Hurwitz, would you address the
question that General Napolitano made about this is an
Eighth Amendment requirement, not a Sixth Amendment
requirement, and that's a huge difference?
MR. HURWITZ: I -- I will, Justice Ginsburg. It
seems to me that the State's position is that when a fact
is required by State law at the policy whim of legislators
in order to impose the maximum punishment allowed by law,
that fact gets Sixth Amendment protection. But when a
fact is required by the Constitution or by decisions of
this Court, that it somehow obtains less Sixth Amendment
protection. I would suggest there is no basis in the
jurisprudence of this Court for that kind of conclusion.
What the Attorney General seems to be saying to
you today are two things. First, the State doesn't like
Apprendi. Hence, the distinction between facts that we
added in order to impose sentences and facts that were
elements of the crime. But I suggest that problem was
solved in Apprendi.
The separate question is whether or not, as
Justice Stevens put it, death is so different as to
require a different rule than in Apprendi. And I would
suggest that the purpose of the Sixth Amendment here, the
protection of the right to jury trial, applies with no
less force under a circumstance where the enhanced
sentence may be from life to death than under a
circumstance where the enhanced sentence may be from 10
years to 12 years.
It may well be true that this Court's Eighth
Amendment jurisprudence is unique, but in the context of
the Sixth Amendment, in the context of the facts necessary
and specified by State law, in order to allow the maximum
punishment allowed by law, there should not be an Eighth
Amendment exception.
The State has chosen to make specific facts
necessary for the imposition of the ultimate sentence, and
when the State chooses to do so, whether it chooses to do
so because it merely thinks it's a good idea or it chooses
to do so because the Constitution of the United States
requires it to do so, the same Sixth Amendment principle
ought to obtain. And that Sixth Amendment principle is
that you're entitled to have the jury find those facts.
With respect to the question Justice Breyer
asked -- and I think as clarified, it's important to note,
the second issue is really an Eighth Amendment issue, and
that Eighth Amendment issue is not one that we -- that we
urge in this case. But even if you don't urge that Eighth
Amendment issue, the underlying Sixth Amendment issue
strikes us as precisely the same. And therefore, you may
have a system under which a judge can do this ultimate
weighing, this ultimate discretionary decision at the
second level of whether this is a particular penalty
that's appropriate for this defendant. But the State's
narrowing, the State's choosing of factors and putting
them in its law and saying to the defendant, this is a
fact that must be found before you can receive this
maximum sentence, is a Sixth Amendment point.
One final point. With respect to notice, this
is plainly not a notice case. I don't believe Apprendi
would have come out a single bit differently if, before
his trial, Mr. Apprendi was told you're going to be tried
on the firearms charge and at the end of the charge, the
judge is going to determine whether there's racial
motivation and he's going to give you an additional
sentence. Apprendi was not about notice. This case is
not about notice.
This case is, however about that central Sixth
Amendment point, and I would suggest to the Court that try
as you might, unless you simply say in the end we're going
to have a different rule for capital punishment, you can't
distinguish the issues in this case and the underlying
Sixth Amendment principle from the principles in Apprendi.
And for that reason, we suggest that this case is
controlled by Apprendi and that the sentence of death
imposed on this petitioner was inappropriate under the
Sixth Amendment.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.
Hurwitz.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:00 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
25:22 32:2 33:8 41:3,14 43:9 amended 13:22 24:14 arose 20:10
49:15,16,17 Amendment 3:11 14:4,23 15:6,24 around 26:5
46:16,17 49:14 antecedent 26:16 B
24:8 36:15 7:11 10:23 11:1,2,10,24 13:7 14:24 began 24:6
20:2 21:20 23:11 24:6,20,22 25:5 begins 24:8
11:7,18 12:10,13,14,18 15:8 approach 19:14 believes 32:7
16:2,8,14 17:1 19:19 21:1,4 appropriate 21:11 35:6 49:3 beneath 44:22
25:9,10,23 30:12 31:13 35:3 approximately 31:21 better 32:12 44:2
37:4,25 38:7,9,17,24 39:3 April 1:9 between 10:23 16:20 18:13 22:6
48:7 Arizona 1:6,14,16,17 3:4,16,19 6:16 Breyer 18:18 35:11 48:18
47:8 48:8 11:13 12:8,17 13:21 16:11 19:16 brief 5:3,24 6:12 20:12 40:14,19
31:18,23 34:19 39:22 40:20 broad 29:19 30:25 45:23
comes 27:3,5 36:18 24:13,18 25:2,3 27:5,18,19 28:3
9:3,12,18,22,23 10:6,13,16,19 complicated 44:13 co-defendant 41:19
11:10 13:4 16:8,9,18 17:7 complies 6:14 created 27:18
19:10 23:9 24:7,23 25:18,18 comply 24:15 creation 44:16
31:10,14,18 32:10 33:5,5,6,10 compulsion 23:21 crime 10:25 12:3,3,19 14:2,15 27:10
36:11,12 37:5,15 39:24 40:1,8 conceded 7:8 29:6 41:16,18 47:18
42:20 43:12 44:14,20 conceivably 38:4 criminal 29:12
48:22 49:9 concern 24:23 critical 42:13,15
50:4,5 concerns 35:24 cruel 18:14,17 32:7
36:2,8 42:25 43:19,22,24,25 conclusion 41:6 47:13 cutting 46:7
condition 27:4
17:24 41:16 consistent 32:7 15:4,13 16:11 18:14,17 19:24 22:14
24:4,25 50:2 constructed 45:15 49:24
16:6 17:1 21:2 22:23 23:7 controlled 49:24 decisis 24:24 36:1
29:21 37:4 38:9,17,25 39:3 controls 3:15 defendant 3:12,16,21 4:14 5:7,12
47:25 48:2 converted 30:12 21:15,21,23 23:6 29:13,15 36:10
15:9,11,12 16:9 17:13 18:4 41:8 49:5
19:19 20:23 28:23 37:25 38:1,7 conviction 36:15 defendants 5:18 22:17 43:15,16
core 17:3,6 defined 26:7
28:9,9 29:25 33:6 37:16 E excluded 30:21
44:23 E 2:1 3:1,1 Excuse 34:17
37:8,11 embraced 33:11 34:9 45:3 46:9
enact 20:7 face 11:10,23 15:5
42:17 44:1 45:11 46:5 47:4 enhance 16:2 17:22 44:4,7 45:22,25 33:23 35:2,4,14 36:9 37:3 39:18,20
34:11 43:6,7,24 44:2,15,15 enhanced 31:2 47:25 48:2 49:6
47:21,22 49:20 enhancement 46:17,18 factor 6:5 13:19 16:2,14,24 17:12
19:25 29:20 30:9 39:12,14 entitles 39:11 48:6,10,17
25:7 28:1,4 47:16 et 27:14 Federal 7:19 31:5,11
14:13,13 16:21 19:12
30:3,21 35:2 37:3,13,15,20 go 26:12 27:21,24 29:6,7 31:14 32:24 I
38:8 39:18,19 41:20 42:1,4,14 33:3 34:3 36:1,24 37:21 39:1 44:22 idea 10:23 48:13
45:1 identically 19:16
going 25:17 27:22 39:11 43:1 44:3,18 implicate 35:24
14:21 19:17 21:23 22:21 great 30:15 implicitly 25:2 36:3
25:15 26:1,4,6 27:10 28:9,9 greater 3:13 8:12 impliedly 42:4
31:2 33:6 37:16 42:24 44:23 Gretzler 40:13,17 important 25:4 32:5 36:13 48:19
guarantee 3:11 27:4 28:21 30:21 impose 6:17 8:11,18 9:7 12:10,13
39:9 guidelines 7:20,22,25 8:15,25 9:8,10 imposed 4:20 7:16 14:12 17:10 24:12
18:5 19:21 22:25 24:13 27:15 hard 31:14 43:21 45:20 indicted 33:6,6
31:3 36:21,21 38:18,19,20 Harris 7:6 indictment 28:13
49:6 having 4:16 16:1 individual 33:15,15
25:8 26:17,24 28:20 29:10 heavily 24:25 innovation 26:15
34:10 35:23,23 42:18 44:4,7 held 3:10 29:7 insist 44:3
48:1,2 49:22 Hence 47:16 instance 4:7
24:8,8,15,22 25:8 33:11 35:23 holding 17:7 interrupt 32:24
46:12 homicide 10:5 22:17 invite 14:6
35:20 36:3 37:6 38:15 39:21 issue 4:15,19 5:4,13 10:4,14,20 11:12
41:21 42:5 human 33:16 issues 42:25 43:2 49:21
47:2,14 13:2,5 14:19 15:20 16:7,17 17:14 JANET 1:16 2:5 24:2
39:15 46:18 late 24:20 makes 6:4 7:2 15:21 25:23 35:1 37:24
12:16,24,25 14:13 17:21 18:6,7 Laughter 19:7 making 37:11 38:21 42:4,14 43:4
23:3 24:16 30:4 31:8 34:1,24 law 3:20 5:5,9,10,15,17 6:18 9:21 44:25
36:22 37:2,7,8,11,20,21 38:17 11:5,6,13 12:12,21 13:12,15,16 14:3
39:1 42:14 43:25 44:24 45:1 15:1,12,16,19,21,22 16:1,3 17:11,15
48:25 49:13 18:7,10 20:23 21:17,23 22:3,7 24:19
32:5 43:10 47:13 48:5 legal 3:19 8:10,18 44:24 45:7 47:8 48:7 49:7
12:24 14:14,16 15:2 16:15 legislators 47:7 36:20,21 40:4 48:1,2,4,24
19:10,11,21 21:13 legislature 27:9 28:2,18 29:5 30:4,7
22:1,25 26:17 27:4,15,21 30:8 McMillan 27:17
29:8,11,12 30:12,21 leniency 18:4 22:6 23:8 mean 21:10 25:22 26:18 27:9,12
32:4,17 33:4,5,7,8,10 34:9 less 6:11 18:10 22:2 47:11,25 28:24 38:4 43:9,13 44:8 45:23
35:14 36:9,15,20 let 4:1 7:21 8:8 14:19,19 19:13 23:6
37:2,12,15,24 38:25 39:5,19 24:6 25:4 27:24,24 36:1,4 mechanism 22:12
42:1,13,21 44:4,5 46:9,10 let's 11:13 20:24 membership 42:2
47:24 48:17 level 11:20,21 23:5 39:22 49:2 mens 26:8
36:2,23,23 41:3 44:21 45:18 11:21 19:24 24:17 36:19 44:7,25
14:19 15:20 16:17 17:14 18:3 like 12:2 38:16 45:6 46:17 47:15 might 16:2 18:9 19:3,13 21:17,23
19:8 20:3,24 21:10 22:13 limit 9:5,5 22:1 25:4 36:1 49:19
24:4,7,25 34:23 35:11 38:2 limited 29:17 32:1 Miller 13:13,14,21
48:18 50:2 line 27:17 minimum 41:23
29:17,19,23 43:11 45:21 looking 20:8 27:16 most 22:11,18 26:6
lot 32:19 motivated 9:25
43:11 44:20 45:12,15 13:24,25 15:10 16:8,13 18:13 20:15 much 17:19
20:18,25,25 21:13 22:21 23:2,3 30:3 multiple 4:13
26:11,20 27:7,16 28:5,15,22 11:3,3,11,11,17 14:21 15:23 19:14 permitted 15:1
30:22 31:17,20 32:9,16,23 19:14,15 20:12,22,22,24,25 21:3 person 10:17 33:17 35:16
34:3,8,17,21 35:3,10 25:5,6,10 32:10 38:9,20 39:4,17 persuade 22:2
36:13,18,25 37:6,15,21 38:3 40:7 42:11 45:10 48:21 49:8 pertinent 23:8
39:21,25 40:12,19 ones 6:9 petit 33:8
42:16 43:7,9 44:9,11 only 3:18 7:7,22 16:11 20:14,20 21:1 petitioner 1:4,15 2:4,9 3:7 30:25
46:3,22 47:2 21:14 23:16 29:14 32:6 33:11 42:25 46:25 49:25
49:4 opinion 32:6 phrase 16:12
14:2 15:12 17:9 18:13 21:25 Opposing 24:6 plain 23:2
23:22 27:14 48:6,11 oral 1:10 2:2 3:6 24:2 plainly 11:6 26:23 49:9
25:1 31:22 participant 16:13 practice 24:13
16:4 17:4 21:19 22:5 23:11 questions 23:23 26:25 response 16:18 20:10,16 31:4 44:12
30:16,18 43:5 48:15,16 49:22 quite 5:14 9:21 10:20 26:23 32:1 responses 32:9
45:3 ranging 29:19 review 8:16 31:22 43:20
rea 26:8 30:6,12 33:10 34:5,23 43:15,15
received 3:13 39:10 rule 6:15 11:23 19:14 26:19,21 30:24
12:13 14:3 15:1 17:10 20:14,20 Rehnquist 3:3 25:1 50:2 saying 12:8 23:12 26:13,14 28:1,17
29:7 32:8 35:6 42:17 47:8 relatively 9:11 29:14 33:16 47:14 49:5
49:20 remaining 4:16 46:23 says 4:6 6:24 10:14 33:22 36:19 39:23
47:21 reopen 43:19 second 10:16 22:19,19 23:1 34:24
9:12,15,19 11:25 12:7 13:3 requirements 26:9 27:23 sentence 3:13,18,20 4:9 5:5,12 6:6,17
15:15 16:7,19 17:12,15 18:11 requires 5:15 14:13 16:21 23:18 8:1,12,18 9:1,7 11:5,6 16:2 17:22
19:4,22 20:4,19 21:5 22:9 24:11,21 31:8 48:15 18:6,9,10 21:16,23 22:8 28:20 31:2
24:20 25:17,22 26:10,13 reserve 23:24 31:9,18 42:13 44:4,7 45:22,25 46:3
28:14,16,17,24 29:2,9 reserved 17:25 46:4,5,6 48:1,2,11 49:7,15,24
31:4,5,17,24 32:14,21,24 resist 17:3 sentenced 3:17 4:14 22:18 33:17
34:2,5,15,18 35:1,10 resolve 13:3 sentencer 22:2
37:1,10,17,19,23 38:6,11 respect 4:12 5:11 8:8,15 13:23 15:7 sentences 24:12 31:20 47:17
39:4,16,23 40:4,17 41:2,6 16:23 17:2 21:3 22:21 23:1 25:18 sentencing 4:18 7:19,22 8:15,17 9:8
42:6,11 43:4,8 44:1,10,14 48:18 49:8 10:24 11:8 18:23 19:11,20 22:20
27:22 28:7 29:8 30:19,20 10:22 11:5 12:1 13:6,15,16 14:25,25 surprise 28:16 46:15
32:11,18 33:12 34:25 15:3,12 16:23,25 17:8 18:8 20:8,13 system 6:2,6,14 20:8 22:10,11 36:14
37:22 39:13 40:22 41:2,19 21:2,3,12,22 23:18,22 27:3 29:13,15 48:25
43:12 45:2 31:7,8 38:16 40:13,17 42:9 43:24 systematically 5:18 16:23
47:20 statement 18:19 29:14 T
44:25 49:19 45:6,10 testified 41:19
still 17:23 33:25 37:7 38:18 39:1 themselves 7:25
22:5 24:22 26:25 29:8 35:13 strange 8:22 thing 5:8
39:6,10 43:2,17 44:6 45:4 strike 9:8 things 10:14 47:15
47:3,9,11,23 48:6,15,16,23 strikes 15:6,20 17:3 48:24 think 4:2 5:3,14,22,24 8:8 9:3 10:20
50:1 struck 16:19 10:25 11:22,25,25 14:21 16:6,14,18
37:23,23 subject 32:19 thinks 48:13
substantive 8:2 25:6,7 throughout 31:15
48:10 suggestion 17:4 24:7 25:11,14 45:6 trace 26:6
32:9 45:9,10 47:15 want 13:14 28:19 29:2 30:24 32:24 1972 19:15
15:12 22:7,24 23:20 24:10 weighing 18:15,23 21:12 34:4 35:15 25 11:21
30:7,8 33:19 34:22 36:14 44:5 39:2 49:1
45:7,21 47:25 48:1,25 49:25 weight 39:2 3
28:11 44:10 48:23 49:21 46:3 48:4 38 5:23
wish 13:17,18
01-488 1:5 3:4
32:5 38:5 40:24 45:23,23 46:7 10 11:18 44:5 46:16,17 48:2
