IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
REPUBLICAN PARTY OF :
MINNESOTA, et al., :
Petitioners, :
v. : No. 01-521
VERNA KELLY, et al. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 26, 2002
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at
10:08 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JAMES BOPP, JR., ESQ., Terre Haute, Indiana; on behalf
of the Petitioners.
ALAN I. GILBERT, ESQ., St. Paul, Minnesota; on behalf
of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JAMES BOPP, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ALAN I. GILBERT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JAMES BOPP, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners
P R O C E E D I N G S
[10:08 a.m.]
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument
now on number 01-521, The Republican Party of Minnesota,
et al., versus Verna Kelly. Mr. Bopp.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES BOPP, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. BOPP: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please
the Court: Like most states, Minnesota selects its judges
through periodic popular elections. And when candidates'
speech is severely restricted, the people are denied
access to the information they need to make an informed
choice. While state court judges are different from other
elected officials, Minnesota's Announce Clause, as now
interpreted by its supreme court, goes too far resulting
in elections without campaigns.
QUESTION: Could we find out from you just what
the Announce Clause prohibits that isn't already
prohibited by the Pledges and Promises Clause, as it's
been interpreted?
MR. BOPP: Yes, Justice O'Connor. The Announce
Clause prohibits, according the decision of the Eighth
Circuit, any general -- allows general discussions of the
law, while it prohibits any implying of how a person would
rule -- a candidate would rule, on an issue or case before
the Court.
QUESTION: How does that differ, then, from the
Pledges or Promises Clause?
MR. BOPP: The Pledges and Promises Clause
prohibits any pledge or promise that -- other than
faithful performance of duties in office. The difference
between "announce," the plain language of the clause, and
"pledge or promise" -- "announce" is simply making known,
is one of the formulations of the Eighth Circuit, or
implying; while "pledging or promising" is making a
commitment on how you would rule in a future case.
QUESTION: But you think the Announce Clause,
even as interpreted by the Eighth Circuit to be the same
as the ABA canon, goes beyond that?
MR. BOPP: Well, Your Honor, there is one aspect
of the current 1990 ABA canon that has -- was not
discussed by the Ninth Circuit or by the ABA brief. And
that --
QUESTION: And where does that appear in your
brief? Where is the ABA canon we're talking about? Where
is it? I want to look at it while you're talking about
it.
MR. BOPP: I do not have a reference to the ABA
canon, Your Honor. I apologize. The ABA canon states
that a -- the 1990 ABA canon states that a candidate may
not make statements to commit, or appears to commit in
deciding cases, controversies, or issues likely to come
before the Court. While the ABA and the Eighth Circuit
seem to imply that the 1990 canon was similar, if not the
same, as the 1972 canon, they did not discuss the
difference between the words "announce" and "commit."
"Commit," if you look in the dictionary, says
"pledge." And, thus, the 1990 canon appears to be more
narrow under plain --
QUESTION: Well, the Eighth Circuit did say that
it was -- that Minnesota's provision is the same as the
ABA canon, right?
MR. BOPP: It did, Your -- it did, Your Honor.
QUESTION: And the ABA canon prohibits
candidates, judicial candidates, from making statements
that commit or appear to commit a candidate.
MR. BOPP: Yes.
QUESTION: And that looks very much like the
Pledge or Promise language. I -- I don't know how we
should interpret this.
MR. BOPP: Well, one of the problems, Your
Honor, is that the January 29th opinion of the Minnesota
Supreme Court interpreting the Announce Clause adopted the
Eighth Circuit opinion and its interpretations.
QUESTION: Right.
MR. BOPP: Unfortunately, the Eighth Circuit had
conflicting statements about the scope of the
interpretation that it was announcing.
QUESTION: Well, you were -- you appear to be
arguing, in your brief at least, that the Announce Clause
is unconstitutionally vague.
MR. BOPP: Yes, Your Honor.
QUESTION: Is that your argument you're making?
MR. BOPP: Yes, we are.
QUESTION: But did you make that argument below?
MR. BOPP: Yes, we did, as to the interpretation
proffered in the district court, adding the words "likely
to come before the Court." But where we are now, Your
Honor, is that the Eighth Circuit sua sponte added other
glosses to this canon, even though it was not advocated by
any of the parties.
QUESTION: You didn't include a vagueness
challenge in your petition for certiorari, did you?
MR. BOPP: Yes, we did.
QUESTION: Is it in the question on which we
granted cert, do you think?
MR. BOPP: No, but it is encompassed within the
violation of the First Amendment that we allege.
QUESTION: But I wouldn't have thought vagueness
was a First Amendment issue.
MR. BOPP: Well, in the context of First
Amendment protected speech, a -- something that chills
First Amendment speech, because of -- it is a vague rule,
and therefore does not provide a bright line necessary for
the exercise of that speech, that it constitutes a First
Amendment violation.
QUESTION: One of the statements of the Eighth
Circuit -- and I don't have the citation to the brief; I
have the citation to the Federal Third -- 247 F.3d 881.
It says that the Announce Clause applies only to
discussion of a candidate's predisposition on issues
likely to come before the candidate if elected to office.
MR. BOPP: That is one of the three
constructions.
QUESTION: If we could -- would you agree that
that's perhaps the narrowest of the three constructions?
I want to find what might be the most likely statement to
survive review and then have you discuss that, because I
take it that you would not be -- you would not agree that
even that is constitutional.
MR. BOPP: It is not the narrowest, Your Honor,
because it uses the word "issue." There are other
formulations --
QUESTION: Yes.
MR. BOPP: -- in the Eighth Circuit case where
they use the word "decide a case," such as on page 45a of
the petition -- the petition appendix. It prevents
candidates from, quote, "implying how they would decide
cases," end of quote. And they also, on page 52a of the
appendix to the petition, say that, quote -- that the
canon, quote, "applies only to discussions of a
candidate's predisposition on issues," as you've quoted,
and then finally concludes on page 53 with the statement
that it prohibits candidates, quote, "only from publicly
making known how they would decide issues." So we have
conflicting interpretations of --
QUESTION: Well, let's take the -- let's take
the last one. I take it, if that were the authoritative
narrowing constructing that were before us, you would
disagree with its constitutionality.
MR. BOPP: Yes, Your Honor.
QUESTION: Would you agree that that would be a
constitutional standard if it were part of a code of
judicial ethics that applied to the judge after the judge
was on the bench?
MR. BOPP: No, and -- but I believe that this
canon does apply to judges once they are elected and on
the bench.
QUESTION: Well, are judges, after they are on
the bench, subject to, all of the same rights that they
have before they go on the bench, insofar as making public
comments?
MR. BOPP: No, they may be limited in a number
of different ways, Your Honor, that are necessary to
advance compelling interests.
QUESTION: Well, why is it that, if an election
is in July, the State can, under your view, not prohibit
statements in June before he's elected, but they can
prohibit the statements in August, after he's elected?
MR. BOPP: Well, Your Honor, the First Amendment
applies -- has its most urgent application in campaigns
for election, and it is -- and while both judges and
judicial candidates may be limited in their speech, it has
never been held that simply announcing your views on a
disputed legal or political issue constitutes an
indication of partiality such that would justify, for
instance, recusal or disqualification.
QUESTION: But I thought you said it would be
okay. Then maybe I didn't understand your answer. I
thought you said that the kind of limitation that Justice
Kennedy referred to would be all right for sitting judges,
that you could prohibit sitting judges from letting their
views be known on any controversial issues.
MR. BOPP: Well, then I misspoke, if that was
your understanding.
QUESTION: Like the incorporation doctrine or
substantive due process and so forth --
MR. BOPP: Canon 4 --
QUESTION: -- you think you could prohibit
judges from discussing those matters.
MR. BOPP: No. Canon 4 -- and in fact, Canon
4(b) of the Minnesota canons encourages judges to propose
changes in the substantive and procedural law, even
individually.
QUESTION: Sitting judges -- sitting judges run
for election. So whatever rights the contender would have
in an election, I assume that the sitting judge who was
running for reelection would have those same rights, in
your view.
MR. BOPP: We believe that they should.
QUESTION: Because the sitting judge could not
be restricted, could he or she, in a way?
MR. BOPP: Well, sitting judges are restricted,
for instance, from commenting on pending cases that are
pending before them, quite properly. But here we are
talking about stating general views about the law.
QUESTION: So sitting --
QUESTION: You wouldn't object to candidates
being prohibited from commenting about particular cases
either, would you?
MR. BOPP: No, I would not.
QUESTION: I didn't take your objection to be
that you say, you know, that there's a case pending in the
courts, if I were appointed, I'll tell you how I would
decide that case. You --
MR. BOPP: We --
QUESTION: -- wouldn't permit that, would you?
MR. BOPP: We believe that that can properly
be --
QUESTION: I thought you gave examples, or your
-- one of the briefs gave examples of commenting on
specific decisions that had been rendered by the Minnesota
Supreme Court, and you said that restraint on that comment
was impermissible.
MR. BOPP: Yes.
QUESTION: Am I not right?
MR. BOPP: Yes. That is our position.
QUESTION: So you're making --
QUESTION: That was a past case. That was a
distinction you're making between past cases and pending
cases in the court that are likely to come before you if
you're elected.
MR. BOPP: Yes, I -- the First Amendment
protects discussion of past cases. However, the Eighth
Circuit opinion only allows discussion of past cases while
the enforcement authorities, specifically the Office of
Lawyers Professional Responsibility, had previously said
that you could criticize those opinions.
QUESTION: Well, supposing that -- supposing
that Minnesota -- the Minnesota Supreme Court had
announced that its Fourth Amendment was more protective
than the federal Fourth Amendment and a candidate running
for that court saw that several cases, the evidence had
been suppressed in Minnesota courts, the defendant was
acquitted, so he said, "I think we should go back to the
idea that our Fourth Amendment is the same as the federal
Fourth Amendment." Would that be permitted under this
rule?
MR. BOPP: Under the Announce Clause?
QUESTION: Under the Announce Clause.
MR. BOPP: Not if it's considered implying how
you would rule in a future case.
QUESTION: But do we know that -- do we -- is
there any mechanism for getting a clarification? And the
big problem in this case is this is a frontal attack, and
so we have no specific examples. And you can say, "I
think this would fit, and I think that wouldn't fit." Is
there any mechanism in Minnesota for seeking
clarification? For example, whether the Minnesota Supreme
Court's current rule is, indeed, the ABA's 1990 rule?
MR. BOPP: You can seek a private advisory
opinion that is not binding on either the office or the
board. And petitioner Wersal sought such an opinion after
suit was filed regarding other matters, and they declined
to provide that advice.
QUESTION: Mr. Bopp, I would assume your answer
would be that if it's too fuzzy for us to understand what
it means in order to rule upon its constitutionality, it's
also too fuzzy for a judicial candidate to know what it
means in order to conform his conduct to it and,
therefore, unconstitutional.
MR. BOPP: Yes, sir, Your Honor, not only to
candidates, but this canon binds the family members, the
supporters of the candidate. If they say anything that is
viewed to violate this construction -- this new
construction of this rule, then the candidate, him or
herself, is subject to discipline or removal from office.
QUESTION: Well, I still want to make clear your
position. Your position is -- is that the judge can,
after the judge's election, be disciplined, sanctioned for
certain remarks that he could not be sanctioned for before
the election. Is that correct?
MR. BOPP: No, Your Honor, and if I gave you
that impression, I apologize.
QUESTION: In other words, the rule --
MR. BOPP: I am not --
QUESTION: -- post and pre-election, the
rights --
MR. BOPP: The rule --
QUESTION: -- to speak are the same.
MR. BOPP: The rule is the same. But I think
the point I was making was that once a judge assumes
office, there are restrictions on, for instance, his
ability to discuss a pending case that is not imposed upon
a lawyer that is not involved in the case in any way.
QUESTION: Well, do you claim --
MR. BOPP: So then --
QUESTION: All right. Then your position is
that there is a difference as it applies to pending cases
as to which a sitting judge has to -- to which a sitting
judge has been assigned.
MR. BOPP: Yes, there are specific ethical
QUESTION: And --
MR. BOPP: -- canons that apply in that.
QUESTION: And that's all.
MR. BOPP: And that's appropriate --
QUESTION: Now --
MR. BOPP: -- an appropriate limit.
QUESTION: -- are there limits on what the
candidate can say?
MR. BOPP: Yes. I --
QUESTION: And those are what?
MR. BOPP: It's in the realm of Pledges and
Promises. It would apply to candidates whether they're
sitting judges or not, and that is that a candidate for
judicial office shall not pledge or promise certain
results in deciding a particular case or issue in a case
without regard to the law or facts of the case.
QUESTION: Suppose he said, "There are a lot of
criminal cases pending," and, to take the Chief Justice's
hypothetical, "we've gone too far in interpreting the
Fourth Amendment, and I'm going to be more strict." In
your view --
MR. BOPP: I think that's a --
QUESTION: -- that could be prohibited.
MR. BOPP: No, that is allowed, Your Honor,
because he's not promising certain results in a particular
case. That is, again --
QUESTION: He says, "I promise when these cases
come before me, this is what I'll do."
MR. BOPP: Then that is a pledge or promise of
an outcome.
QUESTION: And in your view, that can be
prohibited.
MR. BOPP: Yes, because there is a --
QUESTION: Well, I'm surprised you take that
view.
MR. BOPP: Well, Your Honor, there is a public
perception of the impartiality of the judiciary that I
think properly can be taken into account.
QUESTION: Well --
MR. BOPP: And I think this rule announces a
rule that is consistent with the judge's obligation to
decide cases in accordance with his or her role.
QUESTION: Well, that's an extremely fine line
you're drawing, it seems to me, because I think a moment
ago, in response to my question, you said that a candidate
would be prohibited, and wrongly prohibited, under your
view -- on your view of it and from saying that Minnesota
should adopt the federal Fourth Amendment standard rather
than the more liberal Fourth Amendment standard that the
Supreme Court of Minnesota hypothetically had it. You say
that a candidate ought to be allowed to do that, but he
isn't under the Minnesota rule?
MR. BOPP: He is not, under the -- well, to the
extent that we know what the Announce Clause means --
QUESTION: Yeah.
MR. BOPP: -- with this conflicting formulations
under the Eighth Circuit opinion, talking about cases or
issues -- talking about, implying, or making known -- to
the extent that we know the rule, it would appear that
such a statement would be prohibited --
QUESTION: And you --
MR. BOPP: -- because it would imply what he
would rule in the future.
QUESTION: And you say that the First Amendment
prohibits that?
MR. BOPP: No, I'd say the First Amendment
protects talking about prior decisions.
QUESTION: What about --
MR. BOPP: And one of the problems is we're
talking about the rule -- the Minnesota rule versus --
QUESTION: Yeah.
MR. BOPP: -- other proposed rules.
QUESTION: But if --
QUESTION: What about comment on a -- by a
candidate who is not yet a judge on a case which is then
pending before the court? In your view, can the State
prohibit the candidate from saying, "I've been reading
about this case. I know what the evidence is, and I
believe so and so should be convicted, and I think the
sentence ought to be the following." Could the State,
consistently with the First Amendment, prohibit that kind
of a comment?
MR. BOPP: Well, there would seem to be, under
Gentile, more leeway for a lawyer not in a pending case to
discuss a pending case.
QUESTION: What's the answer to my question?
MR. BOPP: I think -- I think it could not be
prohibited.
QUESTION: In the question that the Chief
Justice asked, suppose the judge said, "I pledge and
promise that if you elect me, I will vote in every Fourth
Amendment case to restore the law to what it was." That's
a pledge and a promise, which I thought your argument
started out saying you accept that the pledge or promise
is a valid restriction --
MR. BOPP: I do, Your Honor.
QUESTION: -- that you can't go on that to the
Announce. So suppose that instead of -- the Chief Justice
suggested, "I think it would be a good idea if the court
went back there" -- but if he said, "I pledge and promise
that I will vote that way" --
MR. BOPP: That is a classic pledge and promise
that I think can be appropriated prohibited under the
First Amendment.
QUESTION: As to issues and not as to particular
cases.
MR. BOPP: As both to issues and cases.
QUESTION: So that you -- you can't disable
yourself from being --
MR. BOPP: Open minded.
QUESTION: -- persuaded by counsel that the
views you've held your whole life over the incorporation
doctrine, turn out to be wrong.
MR. BOPP: Yes. And while judges certainly have
views, and they announce these views in numerous different
ways, if they are binding themselves not to have an open
mind and to decide a case in advance, then that is a
violation of the oath, and that type of pledge or promise
should be and can be prohibited under the First Amendment.
QUESTION: Is this different from that? That
is, I read through the Minnesota Bar Association's brief,
the ABA's brief, and portions of the Brennen brief. All
right? They all suggested to me that this ethical rule,
like all ethical rules, is vague, interpreted by
interpretive opinions, of which there are many. I mean,
there are two pages of them in these briefs.
Now, as I understood it, it comes down to an
effort to do just what I did in my own Senate confirmation
hearing, to say, "I will try to reveal my judicial
philosophy. I will try to stay away from anything that is
going to commit myself or appear to commit myself about
how to decide a future case." All right.
MR. BOPP: And I agree.
QUESTION: Now, if that's what they're trying to
do -- do you agree that is what this is trying to do?
And, second, if that is what they're trying to do, why is
that unconstitutional?
MR. BOPP: If it amounts to a pledge or a
promise --
QUESTION: No, it doesn't. I used the words
that -- of the ABA brief. I've used the words -- I'm
referring to the briefs to call those arguments to your
mind.
What they say this comes down to is you cannot
commit yourself or appear to commit yourself as to how you
will decide a particular case or issue if it arises. But
you can, and there are two pages of this in the Minnesota
Bar brief. I'm just trying to call that to your mind --
MR. BOPP: Thank you.
QUESTION: -- of all the things you can discuss:
judicial philosophy, character, this and that. There were
two pages of them, and they're all quotes -- in quotes.
All right. So, one, am I correct in my interpretation?
MR. BOPP: Yes.
QUESTION: Two, if I am, why does the
Constitution forbid it?
MR. BOPP: If the word "commit" means "pledge,"
then I think you're correct in --
QUESTION: No, I told you what it means.
"Commit" means "commit." We can't go more than the words
"commit" or "appear to commit," other than to illustrate
them by example. And the Bar Association brief contains
18 examples that have been given. They're all in quotes.
They come from an authoritative source. So that's where I
am in what this means. Am I right? And if I am right,
what's wrong with it?
MR. BOPP: Well, Your Honor, what is wrong with
it --
QUESTION: But first, am I right, in your
opinion?
MR. BOPP: you're not right. And what is wrong
with it is that the ABA suggested that "commit" means the
same thing as "announce." And what I -- my course of my
argument is that "commit" means "pledge," and that, to
that extent, the ABA canon is different than the current
Announce Clause. In fact, it's --
QUESTION: All right, so if you're saying the
word is "announce," and all these briefs and the bar
association are wrong when they say that means commit or
appear to commit, on that view, what should I do with this
case?
MR. BOPP: You should strike down the Announce
Clause, because it is impossible -- hopelessly impossible
to know what is included within the rule and what is
outside the rule. That, and not only did the Eighth
Circuit use different formulations of the rule that mean
different things, in terms of its scope and application,
but it also had exceptions to the rule, discussion -- a
general discussion of case law or a candidate's judicial
philosophy, but with the proviso that if you imply how you
will rule in a particular case, then you have violated the
rule.
QUESTION: And on an issue on a particular case.
MR. BOPP: An issue, including --
QUESTION: Can I just follow that up for one
second? All right, now take the other assumption. Let's
assume that it does mean, as the ABA says, "appear" or
"appear to commit." On that view of it -- and assume that
I'm right. I know you think I'm wrong on that. Assuming
that I'm right --
MR. BOPP: With all due respect.
QUESTION: -- then is it constitutional, in your
opinion?
MR. BOPP: No, because of the "appear to commit"
language.
QUESTION: So you think the ABA can and is,
itself, unconstitutional.
MR. BOPP: As I interpret it, yes, because the
"appear to commit" takes us back away from a bright line
of a pledge or a promise into the realm of implying what
you are saying. And there --
QUESTION: What is the ABA's position on
judicial elections?
MR. BOPP: They are not in favor of judicial --
QUESTION: I didn't think they were.
(Laughter.)
QUESTION: But you're submitting this case to us
on the proposition that, under the First Amendment, a
judicial candidate can be subjected to restraints on
speech that other -- that are inapplicable to other
candidates.
MR. BOPP: I believe that they can, Your Honor,
because judges have a dual role. One role is to make law,
and particularly state court judges making common law, but
they also have a duty to decide cases impartially. So
while they are running for office, in order to respect
judicial impartiality, they should not be pledging to
violate the oath. That is promising now how to decide a
case in the future when it comes before --
QUESTION: Well, how does this play out with
sitting judges who write opinions saying, "In my view, for
example, I think the death penalty is unconstitutional"?
There it is for everybody to see. And presumably in a
state like Minnesota, that judge will come up for election
again or in another state for retention election. You
don't think it's -- can that be prohibited --
MR. BOPP: No.
QUESTION: -- somehow?
MR. BOPP: No. No, it may not.
QUESTION: And that judge has expressed a view
that presumably the judge will follow in a future case.
MR. BOPP: But that is -- but that is different
from declaring or announcing that you have a closed mind
as to any future --
QUESTION: No. I don't know, if it's thoroughly
expressed. Now, if the next case comes along involving
that very issue, can the judge be changed for bias?
MR. BOPP: No. No, you may not be recused, and
due process is not violated.
QUESTION: But what if a candidate says not, "I
pledge that in every case I will say vote against the
death penalty," but, "I have real doubts about the death
penalty jurisprudence." I mean, I don't think Minnesota
has a death penalty, but --
MR. BOPP: No, it doesn't.
QUESTION: -- let's assume it does. "And I
think it probably should change." Is that permissible
under this rule? And if the rule says it's not
permissible, is that statement protected by the First
Amendment?
MR. BOPP: I'm sorry. Under the Minnesota rule
or my rule?
QUESTION: Under the Minnesota rule.
MR. BOPP: It -- well, it's very difficult to
know, Your Honor.
QUESTION: Okay, well, under your rule.
MR. BOPP: Under our rule, it would be allowed.
And, in fact, judges are encouraged to do -- make
proposals just like that under these canons.
QUESTION: Now I don't understand what you say
the Minnesota rule is. I would have thought your answer
would be, "That's probably okay under the Minnesota
rules," because he only says probably -- "I think it's
probably, you know, unconstitutional."
MR. BOPP: Under the Minnesota rule if you
simply imply how you might rule --
QUESTION: Well, it doesn't. It says, "I have
doubts about it," according to the Chief Justice, "I have
doubts about it." I think that doesn't necessarily imply
-- but I thought --
MR. BOPP: Well, it's --
QUESTION: I thought --
MR. BOPP: It's hard to know.
QUESTION: But I thought that your position with
regard to judicial opinions is -- is that it is perfectly
okay for a sitting judge to make known to the public his
view on something like the death penalty when he does it
in an opinion and, therefore, that can be out there.
MR. BOPP: Yes, it is --
QUESTION: Subject to criticism, indeed.
MR. BOPP: Yes --
QUESTION: But somebody who's running against
him in an election cannot let be known what his view is on
the death penalty.
MR. BOPP: It is perfectly appropriate for a
judge to do that in an opinion or in speeches or a law
review article.
QUESTION: In speeches? You mean the judge
could go out and -- a sitting judge can go out and make a
speech and say, "In the next death penalty case to come
before me, I'm going to vacate. I'm going to vote to
vacate the death penalty. I don't care what the argument
is."
MR. BOPP: Then not that statement. If he made
that statement, he'd be subject to recusal and a proper
application of --
QUESTION: Okay, well --
MR. BOPP: -- the pledge rule.
QUESTION: Okay. Well, then what he can say in
speeches certainly is less than what he can say in a
judicial opinion in which he says, "I vote to vacate the
death penalty because I believe it's unconstitutional." I
mean, there's some line between them.
MR. BOPP: Yes, I would think he would. He
does, Your Honor. And may I reserve the balance of my
time?
QUESTION: Very well. Mr. Gilbert, we'll hear
from you.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALAN I. GILBERT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. GILBERT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court: I would like to take the opportunity to
try to clarify some of the questions and answers that have
been provided as to what the construed rule in Minnesota
means. And I refer the Court to page 53a, of the cert
petition appendix, where the Eighth Circuit stated the
definitive narrow construction of this rule which says
that the rule only prohibits candidates from --
QUESTION: Whereabouts on the page?
MR. GILBERT: The beginning of the second
paragraph, Your Honor. It only restricts judicial
candidates from publicly making known how they would
decide issues likely to come before them as judges. That
is the narrow construction of this Eighth Circuit opinion.
That is the construction that's being applied by the two
boards that I represent, and that is the construction that
has been incorporated in an authoritative order by the
Minnesota Supreme Court.
QUESTION: What about the example I posed to
your opponent? Someone says, "I think the Minnesota
Supreme Court's ruling on the Fourth Amendment, the state
Fourth Amendment being broader, is wrong, and I -- if you
will elect me as a judge, I would try to change that
around."
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, this is where the
record is very clear as to what Mr. Wersal has done. And
in response to your question, the candidate could
criticize a prior decision of a judge, but could not say
as to a future case how that candidate would decide the
case. And that's precisely --
QUESTION: So let me put that to the test. If I
say, "I think the decision of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota two years ago saying that the Fourth Amendment
-- state Fourth Amendment protected more than the federal
Fourth Amendment is wrong," he could do that, but he
couldn't say, "If you elect me to the Supreme Court, I
would carry out my view."
MR. GILBERT: Well, that would be a future case.
And there's other considerations --
QUESTION: Well, he told me he couldn't even
say, "I think that opinion is wrong. And that is not my
position concerning the meaning of the Fourth
Amendment" --
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor --
QUESTION: -- "in Minnesota."
MR. GILBERT: That's not correct, Your Honor.
refer you to the record in this case and what Mr. Wersal
has said in his literature. If you look at the first
volume of the Joint Appendix, pages 34 to 38, as well as
pages 86 to 91, they contain the actual statements that
Mr. Wersal made as part of his campaign.
QUESTION: What pages?
MR. GILBERT: 30 -- let's see -- 34 to 38, and
86 to 91. And look what he said. First of all, he talked
about his judicial philosophy. He has said that he can't
talk about his judicial philosophy. He did. He said,
"I'm a strict constructionist," and he criticized the
Minnesota Supreme Court for being a judicial activist.
But more --
QUESTION: What does that mean? I mean, that's
so fuzzy, that doesn't mean --
MR. GILBERT: Well, but --
QUESTION: -- that doesn't mean anything. It
doesn't say whether you're going adopt the incorporation
doctrine, whether you believe in substantive due process.
It is totally imprecise. It's just nothing but fluff.
MR. GILBERT: And candidates can say that. And
that's the point.
QUESTION: Can they say anything more than
fluff?
QUESTION: Can they say anything that has any
meaning?
MR. GILBERT: Absolutely. And what they can do
-- look at what Mr. Wersal --
QUESTION: But what about my example?
MR. GILBERT: Your example, Your Honor, the
candidate can, as Mr. Wersal did, criticize a prior
decision of the Court. And that's very clear from what
has happened in the Wersal case. What the candidate
cannot do is say that, "If I'm elected, I'm going to
overturn that decision."
QUESTION: Does that dichotomy make any sense at
all?
MR. GILBERT: Well, it does in the sense, Your
Honor, that there's different dynamics involved once a
judge is elected and has to overturn a decision that's
already precedent in the State of Minnesota.
QUESTION: So a candidate says, "This is the
worst decision that's come down since Dred Scott, it's a
plague on our people, it's an insult to the system, but
I'm not telling you how I'll vote."
(Laughter.)
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, that's the point.
QUESTION: It's more than that. You assert that
that does not, within the language that the Supreme Court
has adopted, it does not imply how he will vote on that
issue at a future date. He says, "It's the worst case
we've ever done." That doesn't imply how he's going to
vote on it?
MR. GILBERT: Well, that might well imply
whether he's going to overturn it. But what the candidate
can say and what Mr. Wersal said -- if you look at the
criticism that he leveled at these decisions of the
Minnesota Supreme Court, he said just as you indicated,
Justice, that, "These decisions are" --
QUESTION: What are you reading? Where are you
reading from?
MR. GILBERT: If you look at pages -- page 36,
for example, of the -- this is of the Joint Appendix -- he
says, on abortion, "The Court ordered the State must use
welfare funds to pay for abortion despite state law to the
contrary. The dissenting judge remarked," et cetera.
This is under the topic of "Examples of Judicial
Activism." But then he goes into greater detail on page
38.
QUESTION: But is the statement at page 36 that
you read -- is that proscribable under the State's rule?
MR. GILBERT: No. And that's the point. What
has happened here, Your Honor, is that there was a
complaint filed against Mr. Wersal for all of this
campaign material. And the then-director of the Lawyers
Board, Marcia Johnson, in an opinion, on pages 20 and 21
of this appendix, said that the statements made by Mr.
Wersal are not proscribable. And that's even before the
rule is narrowed.
And if you look at page 21, the executive
director said specifically that Mr. Wersal can criticize
prior decisions of the Court. And that's consistent with
what the Board on Judicial Standards did in --
QUESTION: What do you say --
QUESTION: May he also, at the same time as they
criticized the decision, say, "I do not believe in stare
decisis"?
MR. GILBERT: Yes. He can't, because that
is --
QUESTION: Well, then isn't he saying how he's
going to rule on the case then?
MR. GILBERT: Well, Your Honor -- it might be,
Your Honor. People might be able to imply from it, but
it's still -- the distinction is --
QUESTION: Might be able to imply that I don't
believe in stare decisis and I think this case is wrong.
(Laughter.)
QUESTION: Pretty clear, I think.
MR. GILBERT: No, and I understand what you're
saying, Your Honor. The distinction that's made, if you
look at all the cases that have dealt with this issue, is
a distinction between past cases on one hand and then
pending and future cases on another.
QUESTION: As long as you're silent on your
views on stare decisis, that's a fine distinction. But if
you do reveal your views on stare decisis, that
distinction is meaningless.
MR. GILBERT: Perhaps. There could be other
issues that come up in terms of a case that would be a
vehicle to overturn particular decisions -- standing,
things of that kind.
QUESTION: So now you're saying there's a
distinction between issues and cases. And I'm saying
you're categorically stating your view about a particular
issue, as the Chief Justice's example states, and you also
categorically state, "I think stare decisis has no place
in constitutional adjudication." Can he do that?
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, again, the -- no,
under the State's interpretation of the rule. And I
understand your point. It is a fine distinction. But
what the State is trying to do is protect the integrity of
the judiciary at that point. And to the extent --
QUESTION: This protects its integrity?
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, we think so. And the
reason for that is that --
QUESTION: I mean, it's just a game. It's just
a dance, you know --
MR. GILBERT: Well, this is --
QUESTION: -- I don't say anything about stare
decisis and it's okay. If I say something about stare
decisis, it's not okay?
MR. GILBERT: Well, again, Your Honor, I
understand the hypothetical. This is a hypothetical that
is kind of on the fringe. I would agree with you. But at
the same time, most of the situations are going to be
clear, are going to be --
QUESTION: Well, it is such a problem to know
exactly what the provision covers now. It isn't clear to
me. And what we end up with at the end of the day is a
system where an incumbent judge can express views in
written opinions, and perhaps otherwise, as well, and yet
a candidate for that office is somehow restricted from
discussing the very same thing in the election campaign.
That's kind of an odd system, designed to what? Maintain
incumbent judges, or what?
MR. GILBERT: No, it's not, Your Honor. In
fact, that is not correct in terms of the effect of that
situation. Again, if you look at page 20 of the Joint
Appendix, what the executive director of the Lawyers Board
has said is that an incumbent judge can criticize the
prior decision of that sitting judge. So that the
challenger actually has greater opportunity than an
incumbent judge, because an incumbent judge has a record
of decisions.
QUESTION: Do you -- you misspoke, I think. You
meant the challenger --
QUESTION: You did --
MR. GILBERT: The challenger. I'm sorry.
QUESTION: -- the challenger, who is not a
judge, can criticize the specific decision of the judge
who wrote it.
MR. GILBERT: That's correct, Your Honor.
QUESTION: So they're equally free at the least
to discuss the specific past cases.
MR. GILBERT: At the least. And I would submit
that the challenger is in a better situation because of
the --
QUESTION: All right. Can I ask you this
question --
MR. GILBERT: Yes.
QUESTION: -- because I understand that -- I
have two questions, really. One is the line that's being
-- that you're trying to draw, everyone would concede is a
very difficult one to draw, but it is the line that I
tried to draw.
MR. GILBERT: Yes.
QUESTION: Now, what would happen if, instead of
my being in the Senate, I had been in an election
campaign, and I was trying to draw this very line between
commitments to future cases, specific ones, and general
judicial philosophy. And suppose my opponent, after,
said, "Breyer made a mistake. He didn't get it right,"
but I was in good faith. What could happen, or would
likely happen, to me under this rule?
MR. GILBERT: As a -- I'm sorry, as a sitting
judge, Your Honor?
QUESTION: Well, I then -- suppose I won. Fine.
I've won the election. My opponent -- what I'm trying to
understand is what are the consequences? It is, after
all, an ethical rule, and ethical rules are often blurry.
MR. GILBERT: Yes.
QUESTION: And I want to know what would likely
happen to a person who makes a mistake in drawing this
very fine line, assuming that it's in good faith.
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, the Board on Judicial
Standards or the Lawyers Board would have jurisdiction
with respect to a violation which sounds like a technical
violation, as you describe it, and could impose some
discipline, but I would suspect that discipline would be
very minute, if at all --
QUESTION: Could a state --
MR. GILBERT: -- under those circumstances.
QUESTION: -- make a violation of the provisions
you described a criminal offense?
MR. GILBERT: No, Your Honor. These are not
criminal statues.
QUESTION: But could a state do it under the
First Amendment? Is there any authority you have for the
proposition, that can -- a state can impose a civil
sanction, but not a criminal sanction?
MR. GILBERT: I'm not aware of any authority
that would allow a criminal sanction for such a thing.
QUESTION: Can I ask you one other question?
QUESTION: That's not my question. Is there any
authority that a state, under the First Amendment, is free
to impose a civil sanction but not a criminal sanction on
particular speech?
MR. GILBERT: I'm not aware of authority to that
effect either, no.
QUESTION: This is a technical question, but the
sentence you started out reading from the Eighth Circuit's
opinion is not identical to the ABA canon. And obviously
if this rule differs from the ABA canon and is stricter,
one could say there's a less restrictive alternative,
namely the ABA canon. And so I'm quite concerned about
how to deal with that problem. Do I assume that, in fact,
Minnesota does mean it's indistinguishable from ABA canon,
which is what the ABA says? Or what your opponent says?
How do I deal with that?
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, our position is, just
as the ABA indicated, that our rule is the functional
equivalent of a commitment clause.
QUESTION: The Minnesota Supreme Court turned
down the ABA rule, the ABA rule -- we're talking --
they're both ABA rules. Minnesota now has on its books
the 1972 rule. The 1990 rule is the one that you said is
the functional equivalent of the current rule. And yet
the Minnesota Supreme Court considered and turned down
that rule. So that's one of the aspects of this case that
makes it very fuzzy. The court that turned it down now
says, "We agree with the Eighth Circuit." And you're
telling us that the Eighth Circuit has adopted,
essentially, the ABA's current rule.
MR. GILBERT: Yes, Your Honor, and that is the
case, and you are right. Back in 1995, there was
discussion of adoption of the commit clause by the
Minnesota Supreme Court. It did not occur at that time.
There has been a lot that has evolved over the last seven
years, Your Honor, and the Minnesota Supreme Court has
made the decision in its January 29th, 2002, order that
this construction by the Eighth Circuit is the
construction that they are going to place on their clause.
QUESTION: Whatever that is.
MR. GILBERT: Well, this construction, Your
Honor, is, for all practical purposes, identical to the
commitment clause. And --
QUESTION: Mr. Gilbert, may I ask --
MR. GILBERT: Yes.
QUESTION: -- a question based on what you said
about stare decisis? You say -- have said consistently
you can discuss your judicial philosophy. Well, why
wouldn't one's position on stare decisis fall under
judicial philosophy?
MR. GILBERT: I think it would, Your Honor.
QUESTION: So that -- so you're changing back
then, because you said a while ago that stare decisis --
if you said, "I think that decision about the Fourth
Amendment was wrong, and I don't believe in stare
decisis," you said you couldn't put those two together.
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, you can put them
together. I think the question was, could someone then
conclude from that what the ramifications would be if that
particular candidate came to the Supreme Court, for
example, on what the candidate would do with respect to
that decision -- whether the candidate would overturn or
not.
QUESTION: And your answer was it would imply
how he's going to vote and, therefore, would not be --
MR. GILBERT: Again --
QUESTION: -- would not be acceptable, right?
MR. GILBERT: Yes, Your Honor, with the
distinction being to protect the integrity of the
judiciary.
QUESTION: Well, let me ask about that. You
know, in evaluating whether a state has demonstrated the
kind of significant interest necessary to abridge speech,
it seems to me we have to look at the entirety of the
state law to see what interest it's pursuing.
I, frankly, am absolutely befuddled by the fact
that Minnesota wants its judges elected -- that's its
constitutional provision -- and then enacts statutory
provisions that are intended to prevent the electorate
from knowing, even by implication, how these candidates
are going to behave when they get on the bench. It seems
to me a total contradiction. And, indeed, it looks to me
like a legislative attempt to simply repeal Minnesota's
constitutional provision providing for the election of
judges, which is a neat and easy way to get rid of it if
you can't do it by plebiscite.
Why does it make any sense to vote for a judge
in an election, a judge who is not able, even by
implication, to tell the electorate what kind of a judge
he would be?
MR. GILBERT: Well, but, Your Honor, that's the
fallacy in that statement, is that a candidate can tell
the electorate what kind of candidate they are. The only
thing that the candidate cannot say -- it's a very limited
restriction -- and that is, how I am going to decide a
future case.
QUESTION: Not a particular -- well, no, not
just a future case, a future issue -- any, not a
particular case, but any issue --
MR. GILBERT: And --
QUESTION: -- how I will vote on the Fourth
Amendment situation, how I will vote on the incorporation
doctrine. I can understand your saying, he shall not
commit himself, "I promise to vote this way." No judge
should do that. He should be able to be persuaded that
he's been wrong. But to say that my current view is that
the Fourth Amendment should be just like the federal
Fourth Amendment, and stare decisis in constitutional
matters is not a doctrine that I think is very strong --
it seems to me you ought to be able to say that.
MR. GILBERT: And they can say that. I think
the difference of opinion we have here is whether they can
go the extra step and just say, "And I would try to
overturn the decision if I'm elected."
QUESTION: Well, if that --
MR. GILBERT: I have to --
QUESTION: -- if that indicates a
disqualification or a lack of temperament for the bench,
the voters can decide that. The bar association and the
judges can come out and say, "We have a candidate running
who doesn't have the right judicial temperament," and the
voters decide. That's the way elections work.
MR. GILBERT: They can do that, but I submit to
you, what happens if that judge wins? What happens if
that judge wins and the litigants come before that judge
who has prejudged that case?
QUESTION: Well, I suppose the people have said
what kind of judges they want.
MR. GILBERT: Oh, and it's all of a sudden
majority opinion?
QUESTION: Why is that any worse than litigants
who come before a judge who's already sitting and who has
said in a prior opinion that he thinks the Fourth
Amendment in Minnesota should be interpreted the same way
the federal Fourth Amendment is? Why --
MR. GILBERT: Because in --
QUESTION: -- is that any different?
MR. GILBERT: Because in a prior opinion, due
process was accorded, because the judge actually heard the
argument of the litigants, heard the facts and the
applicable law.
QUESTION: You mean a judge can't have an
opinion without hearing from all sides and going in briefs
and so forth?
MR. GILBERT: Absolutely.
QUESTION: Well, what if -- even if he gives a
speech, does he have to first have this sort of vetting?
MR. GILBERT: Not at all, Your Honor. The only
-- again, the limited restriction here is that the -- a
judge cannot -- I'm sorry -- a judicial candidate cannot
prejudge a future case, cannot say, "I think this statute
over here is unconstitutional," or, "I think, in consumer
fraud cases, that anybody who wins is entitled to punitive
damages."
QUESTION: So you don't trust the electorate in
Minnesota to decide whether a judge has a judicial
temperament. You wish us to depart from the usual
philosophy --
MR. GILBERT: Again --
QUESTION: -- that we do not allow the State to
presume that the public is better off not having complete
information.
MR. GILBERT: Well --
QUESTION: Maybe we should know about this
judge's temperament. And if he spouts off on all sorts of
issues, we say, this is not the kind of judge we want.
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, again, this is a
balance that's being struck. There's competing interests
here. There's the First Amendment interest that we're all
familiar with. There's the due process interest of
individual litigants. There's the compelling governmental
interests that the State has in ensuring the integrity of
the judiciary, both in terms of the actual integrity and
the perception of it. And that's why this limited
restriction is appropriate.
QUESTION: Maybe you shouldn't have judicial
elections if the last is a significant State interest.
MR. GILBERT: Well, Your Honor, that's --
QUESTION: To the degree that you're making it a
significant State interest here. See, I just question
whether it is a significant State interest, because you
have a constitution that says, "We're going to have
judicial elections." Now, that may be a very bad idea,
but as long as that's in your constitution, I find it hard
to believe that it is a significant State interest of
Minnesota to prevent elections from being informed.
MR. GILBERT: Well, again, Your Honor, we're
trying to weigh the different interests. I am sure you
wouldn't suggest that the State doesn't have a compelling
interest in the integrity of the judiciary, and that is a
competing interest that is being weighed here, and that
results in the commitment clause that the ABA has adopted
and the parallel provision that has been construed
narrowly by the Eighth Circuit, which, again, only forbids
or prohibits a judge saying, "I'm going to decide this
particular issue this way in the future."
QUESTION: So you're saying the public doesn't
know enough in order to determine whether a judge has the
requisite qualifications for office.
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, I'm not saying that
the public knows or doesn't know. The concern is what
happens if that candidate is elected, and then you or any
other litigant comes before that candidate, who is now a
judge, and tries to litigate the issue that the judge has
already prejudged.
QUESTION: Well --
MR. GILBERT: How fair is that?
QUESTION: My goodness, we -- I think we have
-- I will say present company excluded -- I know we have
had judges on this Court who have answered questions about
particular legal issues to the Senate confirmation
hearing. Are you saying that those judges were
disqualified from sitting in cases in which that issue
would later come up?
MR. GILBERT: No, Your Honor, I'm not. And
actually, I'm surprised to hear that.
QUESTION: Is it -- oh. It's --
MR. GILBERT: I am surprised to hear that, in
light of the testimony that is in our brief and other
briefs --
QUESTION: You should go before the Senate
(Laughter.)
MR. GILBERT: But, Your Honor --
QUESTION: I actually found that when they
approached a particular case about how you were going to
decide in the future, both the senators -- in my
experience, since it only concerns me -- would not press
the issue of how you would decide a particular case.
QUESTION: I'm not talking about --
QUESTION: And that's why -- a particular case.
QUESTION: I was -- my reference was to a
particular issue. A particular issue.
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, cases are made up of
issues. And sometimes a case only has one issue. Issues
are important in and of themselves.
QUESTION: Mr. Gilbert, do you think we should
draw any distinction, or whether it would be reasonable
for us to draw any distinction, between the application of
the rule to the candidates themselves and the application
of the rule to all of these ancillary individuals around
them -- their associates, their families? Let's assume
that we say that the rule passes muster with respect to
the candidate. What's the justification for muzzling the
candidate's spouse? I mean, I know, in fact, what --
MR. GILBERT: Yeah.
QUESTION: -- it is, because we figure, you
know, that's how you get the message out. But do we have
a more difficult First Amendment hurdle?
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, I don't think so, not
at all. I think it's really a misnomer to talk about
muzzling, which is what the petitioners have indicated.
QUESTION: Let's say "limiting."
MR. GILBERT: Well, it's not even that. What
the rule does is ask the judicial candidate to encourage
close family members not to effectively circumvent the
rule by announcing views that they might be aware of that
the judicial candidate would support.
QUESTION: But if the family member says, "Well,
I'm going to tell anyway."
MR. GILBERT: "I'm going to tell anyway" --
there's no penalty.
QUESTION: But the --
MR. GILBERT: There's no --
QUESTION: But there could be. Do I understand
that there would be an inquiry in that event as to whether
the candidate had, indeed, encouraged the family member to
be quiet?
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, the standard is
"knowingly permit." So, in other words, some -- the
judicial candidate would actually have to be the actor
behind those actions.
QUESTION: All right, but I want to know, in
practical terms, what happens. The spouse makes a
statement -- any one of the statements that have been
mentioned here, except as suggesting prejudgment of a
case. The candidate stays mute. I presume that a
complaint would be filed against the candidate, and I
presume the candidate would have to answer to the
commission as to whether the candidate had, indeed,
knowingly encouraged this.
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, I'd assume a complaint
would not be filed under those circumstances.
QUESTION: Why not? I mean --
MR. GILBERT: Well, I don't --
QUESTION: Are your opponents forgiving in your
state?
MR. GILBERT: Pardon me?
(Laughter.)
QUESTION: I mean, are opponents just forgiving
of their opponents in your state?
MR. GILBERT: Well, Your Honor, it's a very
difficult standard to satisfy, "knowingly permit."
QUESTION: Well, maybe it's difficult to
satisfy. I'm just trying to get a sense of what the
burden on the individuals involved is.
MR. GILBERT: Well --
QUESTION: And I assume that there could be a
complaint, simply based on the emphatic statement of the
spouse. And my question is, does the candidate have to
show, in that event, that he did not knowingly encourage,
or does the State have to show -- or the prosecutor or
whoever it is -- that he knowingly did encourage. What's
the drill?
MR. GILBERT: Yes, of course, the burden's on
the State. And not only is it on the State, but the State
would have to show by clear and convincing evidence.
QUESTION: Okay.
MR. GILBERT: And the --
QUESTION: But the candidate would have to
answer.
MR. GILBERT: The -- possibly. The Lawyers
Board --
QUESTION: Why not?
MR. GILBERT: -- sometimes doesn't investigate
complaints where they don't have sufficient evidence to
think there's even a basis for the complaint.
QUESTION: Well, would they have sufficient
evidence in the event that a spouse made an emphatic
statement saying, "His view is," or "Her view is"?
MR. GILBERT: Yeah, it's conceivable, Your
Honor, but, again --
QUESTION: Counsel, is that -- is that part of
the canon part of the question in this case? I know it's
part of the canon. I didn't understand that it was
presented to us in the petition. What's your view?
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, it's kind of oblique.
The focus is on Mr. Wersal's comments. And then there are
other comments. And I think one of the justices mentioned
a vagueness challenge. To the extent there's any
vagueness challenge at all that was discussed at the
Eighth Circuit and is part of the petition, it deals with
these third parties and the phase "knowingly permit." And
the issue --
QUESTION: Because we didn't have the
interpretation that was later adopted --
MR. GILBERT: Right.
QUESTION: -- by the Eighth Circuit. What
Counsel says is that the new vagueness issues that he's
raising are a consequence of the opinion which your
Supreme Court has adopted, the Eighth Circuit's opinion.
MR. GILBERT: Well, we -- Your Honor, you're
correct. However, the Eighth Circuit opinion is the
opinion that's being appealed here. And what the
petitioners have done is, they have refused to acknowledge
that narrow construction. And the fact of the matter is
that the Minnesota Supreme Court has now authoritatively
adopted that as a state court construction. But the fact
of the matter is, as well, that the Eighth Circuit already
opined on what the standard is, and that issue was not
raised by them, in terms of vagueness. It simply was not
raised.
QUESTION: Was not raised where?
MR. GILBERT: In the petition.
QUESTION: In the petition. The petition is
whether it's, it unconstitutionally impinges on the
freedom of speech. And one of the principles of freedom
of speech is that you cannot -- you cannot chill speech by
having a prohibition that is not clear. I don't think
that this is a separate issue from the First Amendment
issue at all.
MR. GILBERT: Well, they have not --
QUESTION: We have lots of cases like that,
about chilling speech because it's not clear what the
coverage of the prohibition is.
MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, in their petition,
though, they have not made those kinds of arguments
specifically as to --
QUESTION: They certainly did in the reply
brief.
MR. GILBERT: They have in the reply brief, but
not in the petition, which was the question that was asked
previously. And as to vagueness, I should say that this
court has been really clear in the Broadrick v. Oklahoma
case, for example, and the Colton v. Kentucky case, that
sometimes rules and statutes -- and, frankly, all the
time, rules and statutes are not conducive to mathematical
precision, that there are going to be, as the Court has
said, germs of uncertainty in how these laws are applied.
And these laws are going to be applied based upon facts
and circumstances. And in this particular case, I think
it's really significant that we don't have any facts and
circumstances as to what Mr. Wersal wants to say.
QUESTION: Well, I think you could set up a
system where you get advisory opinions, but I don't know
that we've ever allowed that to be done in the First
Amendment area.
MR. GILBERT: Oh --
QUESTION: "Please may I say this?" You know,
you submit what you want to say, and somebody tells you,
"Yeah, okay. You can say that." That's certainly
contrary to our approach to the First Amendment.
MR. GILBERT: Well, Your Honor, I don't -- Your
Honor, first of all, I'm not a proponent of what -- of
that. But in Letter Carriers, that was a critical
consideration in upholding the Hatch Act against
constitutional attack, because there was the ability of
people who had questions about the application of the
statute to actually go to an advisory board and get an
opinion.
Similarly here, both of the boards that are
parties to this case do provide advisory opinions, and
they provide them on short notice, as well. So there is
that mechanism. I'm not suggesting it's a substitute, but
it is a consideration in terms of if there is a close
question on an issue and someone wants some assurance as
to how that particular situation would be interpreted,
they can go to the boards and ask that question.
QUESTION: Well, how soon can you get something
from the board? If somebody wants to give a speech in a
political campaign, I assume you can't get a 12-hour
ruling from the board.
MR. GILBERT: Well, they actually do advisory
opinions over the phone, Your Honor, on very short order,
and they could do it in a matter of hours or days,
depending upon what the needs are.
QUESTION: Mr. Gilbert, you brought out that
this is not just a question of the candidate informing the
voter, that behind all of this is a litigant who's going
to be in a future case. How does it work in Minnesota?
Suppose, to take an example that Mr. Bopp provided in his
brief, the judge -- or the candidate is campaigning "Tough
on Drunk Driving." And then I'm a drunk driver, and I
come before this judge, now elected, and I say, I want him
to recuse, he said he's tough on drunk driving.
MR. GILBERT: Are you asking in the --
QUESTION: Would there be, under Minnesota law,
a grounds to say, "I don't want that judge, because he's
announced in the election that he's tough on drunk
driving"?
MR. GILBERT: No, I don't think so, Your Honor,
not under those circumstances.
One distinction I would like to make here -- oh,
I'm sorry, Your Honor.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Gilbert. Mr. Bopp,
you have three minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES BOPP, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. BOPP: Your Honor, I don't think this is a
matter of mathematical precision. The State brief,
itself, states two different formulations of the rule.
They say, quote, "It is clear that the clause applies to
statements about how they would decide, quote, issues, end
of quote, on pages 1 and 47. And then they say it is,
quote, "clear," end of quote, that the announced clause
applies to statements about cases. And that is on pages
12 and 37. The rule is not even clear in terms of the
State's own formulation of its scope.
Secondly, as the Joint Appendix indicates on
pages 111 through 123, announcing your views also includes
simply answering questions on radio interviews or after
speeches. It is hardly a remedy for a candidate to call
up the board or the office for an oral opinion which is
not binding on them about whether or not they can answer a
question on the radio.
And, finally, it is undisputed that the people
of Minnesota want an impartial judiciary. Governor Arnie
Carlson, at Joint Appendix page 247, said -- who's a
State's witness -- that people do not want judges who are
pre-committed. Thus, candidates who would make excessive
statements, who would appear to be partial, risk defeat at
the polls in Minnesota. Thus, the people can be trusted
to make the decisions that they, themselves, have
conferred upon themselves, as long as they have the
information they need to make that choice. The First
Amendment guarantees that they should receive that
information, which the Announce Clause both prohibits and
chills. It is, therefore, unconstitutional.
QUESTION: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Bopp.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:07 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
20:8 21:14,17 22:14,23 38:5,6 allows 3:23 11:25 asked 18:7 52:17
45:13 along 24:13 asking 54:21
17:9,10,12,16,20 19:23 24:19 28:8,9,20,21,22 29:5 37:16,23 40:1 association 21:4,21 42:15
28:6 29:17,18 30:12 33:22 41:23 42:3,4 43:5,6 44:15 47:19 Association's 19:13
38:8 39:18,25 40:17 44:10 52:5 53:7,12 56:11 assume 10:12 13:6 22:14,15 24:23
47:21 52:9 53:18 55:13 amounts 20:5 38:9 47:12 49:2,18 54:6
ancillary 47:11 assumes 14:7
54:8 appear 4:19 5:16 6:4 17:1 19:23 20:12 based 39:17 49:19 52:25
applicable 43:12 befuddled 40:22
approach 53:12 40:15 44:14 45:7,12 51:14
44:5,13 45:8,15 50:17 appropriate 14:21,23 26:12 44:21 27:4 30:2 32:19 33:4 40:1 45:6
argument 1:13 2:2,5,8 3:3,6 6:8,10 between 4:7 5:6 11:20 27:5 33:10,21
54:5,7 55:23 12:17,20 14:9,10 15:7,7,8,18 17:17 42:21 43:3 46:10 54:19
6:1,7,9,11,19,22 7:1,13 33:4,17 38:22 39:3 41:17,19,20 comments 9:2 50:23,24
8:16,21 9:3,10,24 10:3,6,15 42:22 43:22 46:21,24 47:1,5 48:22 commission 48:25
11:1,6,8,15,17,23 12:14,16 50:19 52:20,20 53:1,22 54:15 56:16 commit 5:1,1,6,7,16,16 19:23,23
14:1,4,6,12,17,19,21 56:17 20:12,12,24 21:2,2,3,3,14,16,21,22
15:1,3,14,16,21,25 16:3,7,20 cases 5:2 8:4 10:19,24 11:20,21,24,25 22:15,21 23:1 39:4 41:25
17:4,8,11,14,25 18:4,13,19,24 12:8 14:14 15:10,19 16:9,24 18:23 commitment 4:11 38:15 39:14 45:13
20:5,16,21,24 21:9,13,24 18:24 23:17 33:9,10,11,21 35:22 commitments 36:13
23:6,14 24:4,6,9,15 36:13 43:24 46:9 47:4 52:8 55:16 common 23:16
25:3,6,9,17,23,25 26:6,8,12 categorically 33:22,24 company 46:5
27:6 54:16 55:5,7,9 56:15 cert 6:21 27:17 compelling 9:5 44:17 45:10
56:12 certainly 19:6 27:2 52:14 53:11 complaint 32:7 48:23 49:2,19 50:12
21:4 46:15 52:15,16 54:17 challenger 35:10,14,16,17,24 conceivable 50:16
change 24:24 28:10 concern 45:22
changes 10:8 concerning 29:4
14:25 15:5 16:12,18 circumvent 48:1 consistently 17:23 39:18
23:11 24:17 28:14,16 citation 7:8,9 constitutes 7:5 9:15
31:13 34:25 40:6,7,8 civil 37:17,24 constitution 20:23 45:3,5
42:16 43:21 45:23,24 claim 14:11 constitutional 7:20 8:18 22:19 33:25
48:3,12,16,22,23,24,25 clarification 12:19,24 40:24 41:5 42:4 53:17
50:5 54:13,17 55:22 clarify 27:15 constitutionality 8:15 13:8
13:13 15:4 23:13 27:20,24 clause 3:14,18,19,22 4:3,4,7,12 5:23 construction 13:15,16 27:19 28:1,2,3
41:1 47:10 56:5 6:5 7:10 12:14,15 16:21 21:18,25 39:9,10,12 51:16,18
6:15 8:6,22 10:3,6,6 13:13 clear 13:18 28:13 30:15 33:6 34:19,21 construed 27:16 45:14
38:5,6,8,10 50:19,20 50:2 52:4,9,19 55:12,15,17 consumer 43:23
designed 35:2 51:19
11:13,21 12:5,8 16:17 17:18 dichotomy 30:19 30:17,23 40:23 42:10 45:23 54:19
23:16 27:14,17 28:5,19,23 dictionary 5:7 election 9:6,12 10:11,12 13:20,22
30:15 31:7,16,22 32:15 38:16 differ 4:2 24:1,2 26:10 35:1 36:11,21 41:5,9
39:5,7 40:6 46:6 51:11,17 difference 4:6 5:6 14:14 42:8 54:24
52:19,23 different 3:13 9:4 19:7,12 21:17 22:3 elections 3:10,16 23:5 42:18 44:23
discuss 5:5 7:18 14:9 18:2 20:17 end 8:4 34:22,22 55:13,15
discussing 10:5 35:1 ensuring 44:18
27:4 down 19:19 20:11 21:24 31:1 38:17,21 event 48:11 49:21 50:14
23:17,20 27:25 28:16 41:16 draw 36:6,7,8,12 47:8,9 every 18:8 24:18
44:2 45:16 46:22,24 55:13 drawing 16:11 37:1 everybody 23:25
32:19 35:9,18 39:8,25 40:8 driver 54:18 evolved 39:6
driving 54:18,20,25 exactly 34:21
35:12 56:8 dual 23:15 30:13 31:21 33:23 40:7 52:20 54:16
40:2 42:4 duties 4:6 except 48:21
28:16,25 31:9 33:11 36:13 hear 3:3 27:9 46:12,14
51:16,18 fuzzy 13:7,9 29:23 38:23 held 9:14 19:4
31:5,12,20 32:5,21,25 33:7,16 34:1 51:12 52:11 53:13,14 54:9 55:1,4,9
18:21 19:11 21:11 23:10 49:17,25 50:4,7,10,16,22 51:7,12,24 I
29:10,16 37:16,23 43:18 44:15 52:7,11,16 53:8,13 54:8,12,21 55:1 idea 12:11 18:16 45:4
52:5 53:6,12,14 56:10 55:5 identical 38:5 39:13
48:5,6 52:23,25 54:14 23:2
28:8,9,20,21,22 29:4 39:25 governmental 44:17 impossible 21:25,25
42:3,4 43:4,6 Governor 56:2 imprecise 30:3
Justice's 15:10 33:23 line 7:4 16:10 23:1 27:5 36:5,7,12
K litigants 42:21 43:2,11 44:17
Kentucky 52:20 look 4:21 5:7 29:10,16 30:11 31:14,20
24:14 31:9 33:9,23 41:19 53:5,9 39:8 47:4 50:14 52:12
45:17,25 46:9,24 47:3,3,5 knowing 41:1 Maintain 35:2
52:5,6 54:1 knowingly 48:15 49:1,13,21,23 51:3 majority 43:1
27:25 33:17,21 44:12 46:7 27:24 25:10 26:3,16 30:19 37:11 41:8 55:3
51:9 55:13 knows 45:22 56:5,8,10
17:17 18:7 24:1,7,8,14 26:3 23:16 26:13 31:23 40:21 43:12 mathematical 52:22 55:10
28:10,15 30:23 31:24 54:22 matter 1:12 51:16,19 54:10 55:10
35:8,9,11,11,18,18 36:19 41:8 laws 52:24,25 56:18
42:20,21,21 43:3,10,13 lawyer 14:10 18:1 matters 10:5 13:4 42:5
44:2,12 45:16,19,25,25 54:17 Lawyers 12:2 32:8 35:7 37:4 50:7 may 3:8 4:25 9:3,13 24:6,15 27:7,13
39:15 45:4 53:9 new 13:15 51:9 otherwise 34:24
34:9 38:10 43:13 nothing 30:3 28:24 38:4 42:16 47:18 54:12
49:4,10 notice 53:23 outcome 15:22
27:17 O 42:10
occur 39:5 pages 19:18 20:14,19 29:11,12,14
12:5,5,9,23,24 16:14,17,19 office 4:6 7:12 12:1 13:2,17 14:8 15:6 Pardon 49:8
19:13 20:14 24:1,20 25:3,5,13 23:18 34:25 45:20 55:23 part 8:18 29:13 50:18,19,20 51:2
27:16 28:5,7,20 29:7,20 officials 3:14 partial 56:6
31:16 38:10,16,18,21 39:5,7 often 36:23 partiality 9:16
43:5 44:2 45:7 51:17 54:15,22 oh 42:25 46:13 53:8 55:3 particular 10:24 15:7,17 18:22 20:13
okay 9:19 25:8,14 26:3,24 27:1 34:13 22:8,10 33:18,22 37:25 40:6 41:18
29:21 30:6 31:6 47:19 one's 39:20 pay 31:23
38:5 42:8 43:1,4,9,14 51:10,11 perfectly 26:2,12
36:14 39:19,21 44:4 prohibits 3:18,22,24 4:5 5:14 8:9 17:7 51:23,25 52:8,14,17 53:4,9 54:1,3,4
19:10 20:5,24 21:16 proponent 53:14
24:18 26:25 proposals 25:11 R
29:4 38:13 39:20 provide 7:4 13:5 53:22,23 really 36:5 47:21 52:19 53:2
21:19 22:10,12,19,23 23:4,7,9,22 rendered 11:12
17:2 18:5,20 19:11 24:3 47:17,23 48:4,8,10,18 49:4,6,10,14 restore 18:9
20:20 21:7,7,11,13,19 22:13 similar 5:4 statutes 52:21,22
36:1,15 39:3 40:13 42:17 Similarly 53:21 statutory 40:24
51:7 simply 4:8 9:14 25:18 41:4 49:19 stay 19:22
14:4,6 16:7,8,19 17:1,5 14:15,15 15:5 23:23 26:3,16 35:9 stricter 38:6
19:15 22:1,2,3,5,8,9 24:25 36:18 43:3 46:9 strike 21:24
25:3,4,5,8,9,13,17,18 26:25 situation 35:6,24 41:23 54:2 strong 42:5
32:4,12,24 34:2 36:17 situations 34:18 struck 44:14
38:6,14,17,17,19,19,20,22 some 27:5,15 37:6 48:15 54:1 sua 6:14
47:10,11,13,25 48:2 55:11,17 somebody 26:9 53:10 54:5 subject 8:25 13:17 26:7,22
someone 28:7 40:4 54:1 submit 35:23 42:19 53:10
21:15 32:18 34:18 35:1 43:5 sounds 37:5 suggested 18:16 19:15 21:14
28:20 32:23 33:8,20,21 41:24 speech 3:11 7:2,3,5 9:13 23:12 26:17 54:16
46:8 50:15 37:25 40:19 43:18 52:2,3,3,9 54:5 supposing 12:4,4
27:3,19 28:7 30:25 31:9,22 sponte 6:14 supreme 1:1,13 3:15 5:23 11:13 12:5
45:3 48:4 51:9 spouse 47:15 48:19 49:20 50:14 12:24 16:17 28:5,8,19,23 29:20 31:7
27:14 54:16 40:2 55:11 want 4:21 7:17 13:18 36:25 42:24
38:17 46:25 23:24 25:16 27:4 43:23 56:13 ways 9:4 19:8
53:25 55:17 understand 9:19 13:7 25:12 33:7 25:8,19,23 26:24 27:1,9 28:25 29:2
United 1:1,13 53:13,23 54:4,8
16:5,7,11 17:21 18:4,4,16,20 usual 44:3 Wersal's 50:23
22:16,23 23:7,24 24:3,20,24 we'll 3:3 27:9
27:6 28:7,19 29:3 33:4,6 V we're 4:20 17:11 38:17 44:15 45:3,8
34:7 35:13 39:22,25 40:4 42:5 v 1:6 52:19,20 we've 15:11 31:10 53:6
43:22,23 46:4 47:7,20,21 50:12 vacate 26:18,19 27:3 Whereabouts 27:21
52:4 53:1,4 55:1,9 vague 6:6 7:3 19:16 while 3:13,24 4:10,21 5:3 9:12 11:25
26:1 versus 3:5 17:12 won 36:20,21
49:15 31:11 40:11 41:8,22,23,25 X
1:6 3:4
55:14
1:14 3:2
56:17
55:20
55:17
54:6
55:20
21:5
5:5 38:19
4:16,25 5:4,8 12:25 38:19
39:3
32:9 35:6
1:11 39:8
32:9,13
7:9 56:3
1:11
2:7
5:22 39:8
2:4
29:15
29:11,15
31:20 32:3
55:17
29:11,15 32:2
10:3,6
10:7
8:1
55:14
8:4
8:8
27:17
2:10
29:12,16
7:9
29:12,16
