IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X
GONZAGA UNIVERSITY AND
ROBERTA S. LEAGUE,
Petitioners
v.
JOHN DOE
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, April 24, 2002
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at
10:01 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioners.
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Petitioners.
BETH S. BRINKMANN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Petitioners
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
BETH S. BRINKMANN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:01 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument
now in Number 01-679, Gonzaga University and Roberta S.
League v. John Doe.
Mr. Roberts.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
In 1974, when it enacted the Family Educational
Rights and Privacy Act, Congress conditioned Federal
funding for educational institutions on the institution
not having a policy or practice of releasing student
records without consent. Congress did not phrase this
condition in terms of individual rights. It did not, for
example, follow the model of title IX, enacted 2 years
earlier and also dealing with educational institutions,
and say something like, no student at a school receiving
Federal funds shall have his records released without his
consent. Instead, Congress proceeded more indirectly. It
said that no funds shall be made available to any
institution having a policy or practice of releasing
student records without consent.
The statute is directed to the Secretary of
Education. He's the one who makes Federal funds
available, not to the institution receiving the funds, and
certainly not to the individual student. This Court's
cases establish that that is a distinction that makes a
difference. In Cannon, for example, the Court said there
would be far less reason --
QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, isn't it primarily a
distinction that makes a difference in connection with
whether there's an implied cause of action, rather than
whether 1983 authorized a cause of action?
MR. ROBERTS: In the implied right of action
question there are two questions, did Congress intend to
create a right, and did Congress intend to provide a
judicial remedy? In the 1983 context, there are two
questions, did Congress intend to create a right, and did
Congress intend to preclude resort to the 1983 remedy, so
that first question I think is the same under both
categories of cases, and as the Court said in Cannon, if
Congress phrases the statute as -- quote, as a prohibition
on the disbursement of public funds, there's far less
reason to think that they intended a private remedy.
In addition, purpose speaks in terms of an
institutional policy or practice, not individual instances
of disclosures. Again, the contrast with a rights-
creating provision like title IX is stark. Title IX says,
no student shall be subject to discrimination, but FERPA
doesn't look at what happens to individual students. It
looks at institutional behavior, institutional policy or
practice.
QUESTION: The statute does talk about rights of
students and rights of parents. It's, of course, as you
say, preceded by the mandate that there shall be no
policy, but in this regard it seems to me to be at least
more specific than -- with references to rights than some
of the other funding statutes we've looked at.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, of course, the word rights
does not appear in the disclosure provision, subsection
(b), and in Pennhurst, where the Court was dealing with
developmentally disabled bill of rights, the Court
explained that just because the statute uses the word
rights doesn't mean that it creates a 1983 right.
QUESTION: Yes, I recognize in the one section
that we're talking about here you have a stronger argument
than the other, but if we assume for the moment would have
a 1983 cause of action under the whole act without going
down provision by provision, then I do think you have to
recognize that the act does talk about rights of students,
rights of parents to look at files, et cetera.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, first of all, the Court in
Blessing said that you don't look at the whole act. You
have to look at the particular provision that is relied
upon to create the 1983 right.
Second of all, we're 6 years before Maine v.
Thiboutot when Congress passed this, so it's not as if
they're using rights as some term of art under the
established jurisprudence, and finally, I think Congress
can use the term to refer to the opportunity of parents
and students to participate in the administrative remedy,
to the criteria that the Secretary of Education is to use
in deciding whether to terminate funds, without thereby
necessarily triggering coverage under section 1982.
QUESTION: Well, I think it's that latter
rationale that might be stronger for your case. I'll be
somewhat reluctant to parse through this statute and say
there's no right under (b), there is a right under (e), et
cetera.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, whatever rights, whether
you're talking -- putting aside the question whether it's
a 1983 right or a right to participate in the process
that's established under the statute, it is part of the
policy or practice that the Secretary of Education is to
look to in deciding whether to disburse funds. The
obligation is to the Secretary, not to the institution,
and that is made clear when you look at what Congress said
about enforcement.
The Congress said, the Secretary shall enforce
FERPA, and the Secretary shall deal with violations. Now,
that deal-with-violations language should strike the Court
as unusual and, in fact, nowhere else in the United States
Code does Congress tell an agency to deal with violations.
It has almost a colloquial tone to it. Mr. Secretary,
FERPA is your problem, you deal with the violations.
There's no suggestion that they would be dealt with by
private actions brought in court and, in fact, that
conclusion is reinforced when you look at subsection (g),
which tells the Secretary, you set up an office to deal --
QUESTION: Whereabouts is this, Mr. Roberts?
MR. ROBERTS: 12a of our statutory appendix,
Your Honor.
QUESTION: Thank you.
MR. ROBERTS: It says to the Secretary, you set
up an office to investigate, process, review, and
adjudicate complaints about violations under FERPA. I
think this is something --
QUESTION: You say violations of this section.
You tell us that there's no violation of this section
unless there's a policy, right?
MR. ROBERTS: There's no violation unless
there's a policy.
QUESTION: So he doesn't have to investigate any
individual complaint, unless the person comes in and says,
not only do they do it to me, but this is their policy,
right?
MR. ROBERTS: It's evidence that there might be
a problem with the school's policy, and this is what makes
it different, for example, from the Wright case. In
Wright, the Court said, look, all you can do is terminate
funding. There's no process to bring complaints to the
attention of the Secretary. That's not enough.
Here, Congress said to the Secretary, you set up
a complaint procedure, and if someone's got a problem with
the release of their records you investigate it, you
process the complaint, you review it, and you adjudicate
it, and what has happened is that complaints have come in,
and the Family Policy Compliance Office have gotten
responses from the university, and voluntary compliance
has ensured that the policy and practice of the
institution complies with the Secretary's view.
QUESTION: I guess that that's all that the
plaintiff could accomplish in court anyway. The
plaintiffs here don't contend that they would be entitled
to recovery if there is no policy or practice.
MR. ROBERTS: That's correct. That's correct.
QUESTION: So the Secretary's enforcement
authority is coextensive with what the court did.
MR. ROBERTS: In terms of the scope of
liability --
QUESTION: You'd need an allegation of a policy
or practice.
MR. ROBERTS: Exactly, but it is the fact that
Congress focused on the policy or practice that helps
establish that they were not concerned with individual
instances of disclosure. It is odd to speak of a
distinctly individual right being protected when whether
it's protected or not depends on whether the school does
the same thing to others. That looks more like a systemic
concern, not an individual concern, and it's the --
QUESTION: Well, Mr. Roberts, why are they
mutually exclusive? The Secretary has this authority, and
I think your argument would be more impressive if this
were a large operation. On the one hand you say, the
courts, that the institutions will be harassed by all
these lawsuits across the country, and yet this one agency
that you are saying will take care of it, this centralized
administration, we're told that as of 2000 it had all of
seven staff members in that entire office, hardly a number
that is likely to be able to handle a lot of complaints.
MR. ROBERTS: It's very important to keep in
mind the distinction between how matters are handled
before the Family Policy Compliance Office and in court.
FERPA places a premium on voluntary compliance, on
informal and inexpensive adjudication. A 1983 damages
action in Federal court doesn't. The statute says the
Secretary shall deal with violations, not the court. The
Secretary says -- and the statute goes on to say, we're
going to tell you how to deal with individual
complainants. They don't go to court, either. They go to
the office that's set up by the Secretary, and there they
will find an informal, inexpensive procedure in which
people can quickly find out what the school's answer is
and, in a case in which it suggests that there's a policy
or practice problem, secure voluntary problem.
QUESTION: Do we know from the -- maybe the
Solicitor General can tell us -- if the seven people are
overworked?
MR. ROBERTS: In fact, in practice most of what
they do is field questions from the school, how do we
handle this situation, what do we do about this?
QUESTION: But how do you get a stop order? One
of the points that were made is that if records are about
to be divulged to, say, a newspaper, and the student or
the parent wants an immediate stop order, you can go into
court and get a TRO. There's nothing comparable in the
Secretary's arsenal that has that kind of muscle behind
it, is there?
MR. ROBERTS: There certainly is. The first
thing, if you're a student subjected to that, what you
would do is call the Family Policy Compliance Office and
the Secretary, keep in mind, has the cudgel of terminating
funding behind the most informal telephone call or
correspondence. Schools respond to what the Secretary of
Education tells them to do with respect to FERPA, because
they appreciate the sanctions that can be brought. That's
the way the system has worked effectively since FERPA was
enacted.
QUESTION: This office can't really give relief
to any individual, however, right, except to tell the
school not to release, wrongfully release records in the
future, right?
MR. ROBERTS: The focus of the office is in
vindicating what the statute provides. The statute is
directed to institutional behavior. The office reviews
complaints in order to secure compliance with the proper
policy or practice.
QUESTION: So all --
MR. ROBERTS: It is -- it is --
QUESTION: All you have to do is eliminate the
policy, and everything that's happened in the past is
water over the dam --
MR. ROBERTS: Because --
QUESTION: -- and go and sin no more is what the
Secretary says, right?
MR. ROBERTS: Because the statute is directed to
prospective compliance, not retrospective compensation for
injuries. That is a different focus than section 1983.
The 1983 --
QUESTION: What do you do about the language
where it says, no funds shall be made available to a
school that effectively prevent, et cetera, the student --
it says, of the right to inspect. It says of the right to
inspect right in the first sentence, and then later on it
says in (b) no -- or later on it says that you have to
tell the parent in (e) of the rights accorded them by
this. I mean, that's the same question, but I want to
get -- that others have asked, but I want to have very
clear in my mind the specific answer. It says, we won't
give you any money if you interfere with the right.
Now, that sounds as if there's a right, and then
they underline it by saying, and you have to tell them
about the right, and what's -- your direct response to
that is what?
MR. ROBERTS: The direct response is that -- you
left out words in the quote, which is that no funds shall
be made available to an institution that has a policy or
practice, and the question is, is Congress focusing on
protecting individual rights in, as the Court said in
Blessing, an individual way, or are they addressing a
systemic concern. The policy, or the focus on the
Secretary -- this statute is directed to the Secretary.
Don't make funds available, and it says, look at the
policy or practice. It's not written the way title IX is,
which would suggest the conferring of an individual right.
Secondly, you're quoting from subsection (a).
Subsection (b) does not talk about rights.
And finally, the answer --
QUESTION: Well, but Mr. Roberts, let me just be
sure I understand your answer. I have the same problem
Justice Breyer does, because in 1232g(1)(B) on page 2a,
no funds and so forth shall be made available if the
agency has a policy of denying or effectively prevents the
parents of students the right to inspect. Now, is the
right to inspect a Federal right?
MR. ROBERTS: I think not, because --
QUESTION: What is its source?
MR. ROBERTS: The right to inspect is not an
independent and freestanding right. It is a description
of the sort of policy or practice that should prompt the
Secretary of Education to withhold funds. In addition,
this is not the provision that's at issue in this case.
Subsection (b) --
QUESTION: Well, I understand, but your initial
submission is that this is not a rights-creating statute,
it just -- but I don't know where the right comes from
that they refer to in that section and also in -- on 12a
informing parents and students of rights under this
section.
MR. ROBERTS: Under this section. I think
Congress can use the term, rights, to refer to the
opportunities that are provided to the parents and
students and to the criteria that the Secretary of
Education will look to in deciding funding, without
thereby triggering coverage under section 1983.
Just like in Pennhurst, Congress used the word
rights repeatedly in --
QUESTION: But do you think that they would have
had the rights described herein even if this statute had
not been passed?
MR. ROBERTS: No. There would not have been --
no rights are conferred under this statute. What is
conferred is discretion on the Secretary of Education to
withhold funds depending upon a policy or practice. In
describing the policy or practice that should trigger
action by the Secretary of Education, the statute refers
to opportunities that must be provided to parents and
students by that institution, but in doing so I don't
think Congress is necessarily triggering the right to a
damages action.
QUESTION: You use the word opportunity in the
statute wherever the statute used the word rights.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, the statute doesn't use the
words right under subsection (b). The statute in
Pennhurst was called the Bill of Rights, and this Court
concluded that that did not confer rights. The question
is whether Congress acted in a way that indicated an
intent to confer an individually enforceable right.
QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, you said that 1232g(b)
is not the section at issue here.
MR. ROBERTS: No --
QUESTION: What section is the one at issue?
MR. ROBERTS: 1232g(b) is the section at issue.
Justice Stevens and Justice Breyer were quoting from
1232g(a). (a) refers to rights, (b) does not.
QUESTION: Well, but (b) does say, the parents
of students the right to inspect and review.
MR. ROBERTS: That's (a), Your Honor. That's
1232g(a)(1)(A).
QUESTION: (b) is on 6a, I gather is what
you're --
QUESTION: Oh, (b) is on --
MR. ROBERTS: (b) is on 6a, and it does not
refer to rights.
QUESTION: Okay. Thank you.
MR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Your Honor.
QUESTION: Ms. Millett, we'll hear from you.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
MS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
If I could begin by responding to Justice
Kennedy's question about whether the Family Policy
Compliance Office is overworked, I will tell you that they
do work very hard, but they handle -- for a small staff,
they handle an amazing amount of work, and have been doing
so for 28 years under this statute. They handle over 900
pieces of correspondence a year, up to -- close to 100 of
things that are formally categorized as complaints as they
go through the investigation stages.
QUESTION: Three letters a day, I guess.
MS. MILLETT: Hmm?
QUESTION: That's three letters a day.
MS. MILLETT: Yes, but they also -- I'm not done
with my -- forgive me.
(Laughter.)
MS. MILLETT: They have about 300 phone calls a
month, and well over 1,000 e-mails a year to --
QUESTION: That's 10 phone calls a day.
(Laughter.)
MS. MILLETT: That's right, and well over 1,000
e-mails, and I think one of the reasons that there
isn't -- I mean, if you look at the legal landscape out
there, too, there hasn't been an enormous volume of 1983
actions, and that is because the Secretary has been very
successful, I think, in communicating and enforcing this
in an informal manner with the universities. The
universities wish to comply with this, and a lot of it
is -- we've had 28 years now to explicate what this
statute means and to clarify what it means.
Now, I fear that may change if this Court were
to recognize a 1983 action --
QUESTION: What is your opinion about the idea
that this could be bifurcated, that it orders a right to
inspect, that isn't going to be too tough, you let the
person look at the record, but there's a policy of
disclosure. Does that make sense in terms of the statute
to say there's a private right under (a) but not under
(b)? What's your opinion of that?
MS. MILLETT: Okay, I'll answer that in two
stages. It makes sense to bifurcate analysis as a matter
of this Court's 1983 precedents, and specifically that's
exactly what the Court did in the Blessing case, which is
your most recent case up here.
As a whole, we don't think it actually makes
sense to do so under this statute. The Court may not
decide that today because the only provision at issue is
subsection (b), which does not refer to rights and focuses
on policies or practices, but our position is that there
are three mutually reinforcing features here, both in (a)
and (b), that show there is not a right under 1983, and
that is -- even under (a), the very beginning of the
sentence, and the operative command is that no funds shall
be distributed, or shall be distributed by the Secretary
of Education, and that is distinctive, unique language
that this Court recognized, suggested in Cannon, and held
just last term in Sandoval. It's not the type of language
Congress would use to create individual rights and in
particular, in 1974, 2 years after title IX was enacted,
Congress chose different, distinctly different language
that is very uncommon in the U.S. Code.
QUESTION: If you go through the first three
factors listed in Blessing, Congress intended to benefit
the plaintiff, and it not be beyond judicial competence --
MS. MILLETT: Not not be --
QUESTION: -- and there must be an unambiguously
binding obligation on the State, it would seem to me that
those are met here, and that you then have to go to the
next part of the test which is -- that creates a
presumption that there is a right.
MS. MILLETT: Well, as we said in our brief, we
think that the problem here is not that it's vague or
amorphous, and it's not that there's not binding
obligations, which is the second two prongs of the
Blessing test, but the first prong of the Blessing test,
while phrased in terms of benefiting individuals, the
Court made clear in Blessing it's not just a general
inquiry if it's of some good to people, because all
legislation is of some good to somebody. It is whether it
creates individual entitlements, and that's where we think
this statute fails, a statute that --
QUESTION: Well, with reference to the other
parts, the non-(b) parts of the statute, it does seem to
me that it talks about the student and the parent in very
specific terms, and it uses the term, rights.
MS. MILLETT: Well, again, this Court made clear
in Pennhurst that you can't just look at the word right in
isolation. You have to put it in context, and there are
some important contexts I would like to stress, again even
up through subsection (a). The right begins with -- it
begins with the no-funds command. The focus is on a
policy, system-wide basis, and even when it talks about
rights, it's not an individual right, it is the -- the
education records of the children -- I'm sorry, I'm
reading from -- this is my appendix. I hate to confuse the
Court, to my brief, at 1a, where subsection (a) is, and
there has to be a policy of denying or effectively
preventing the parents of students, plural, access to
these records, so we think that makes clear that you have
the same programmatic, system-wide rule here, and in fact
the Secretary's position is that if you had one instance
of a failure to allow someone access to records during
nonpolicy or nonprogram-wide failure to allow access to
records, that would not violate FERPA. The command is
still -- it's written differently. I mean, the statute
was put on, was enacted on the floor of Congress. It
didn't have long hearings where people sort of labored and
struggled over precise language, but it contains --
QUESTION: May I ask you -- it's really the same
question I asked Mr. Roberts, I suppose, but the first
sentence of 1232g(a)(1)(A) refers to a policy of denying
access, denying the right to inspect and review education
records. In your view, is that right a federally created
right, or is that a right created by some other source
and, if so, what is the source of the right?
MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry, I'm having -- there
were too many numbers in that. g(1) --
QUESTION: it's the first sentence of 1232g on
page 2a of the blue brief, and the first, very first
sentence in the statute ends by saying the right to
inspect and review the education records of their
children, and my question is whether you think that is a
federally created right and, if not, what is the source of
that right?
MS. MILLETT: I think it's not -- I have two
answers. First of all, whatever it is, it's a collective,
program-wide, aggregated right, because it speaks in the
plural, but secondly it;'s not -- I think it is used as
Mr. Roberts said here in a shorthand way, and the
legislative history says that one of the things they were
trying to enforce here is what Congress considered to be
pre-existing moral or legal --
QUESTION: Let me be sure you have my question
in mind. Do you think the right to which the statute
refers is a federally created right, or right with a
different source?
MS. MILLETT: I think what the statute is
creating there is a Federal overlay to protect pre -- as
was said in the legislative history on page 17 of our
brief, preexisting legal or moral right.
QUESTION: So that if a school came back and
said, in our State there's no such right, then the statute
would not apply?
MS. MILLETT: Congress felt that when it said
preexisting moral or legal rights, there was a sense of
Congress that this is a type of, not in a bright sense
that we use for purposes of 1983 actions, but the
legislative history was that Congress had a sense here
that this was something all individuals should have. But
this --
QUESTION: It is something they should have by
reason of this statute, and therefore it's created, or by
some preexisting rule of law in some -- at some other
source?
MS. MILLETT: Well, Congress' language was
preexisting moral or legal rights, and so I'm not sure
what one considers --
QUESTION: If it's another source, it seems to
me that the State or the institution could say, in this
locality there is no such right, and that would make the
statute totally inapplicable.
MS. MILLETT: No, it wouldn't, because what you
still have is, once you take these funds you have a
Federal overlay. Once you decide to take these funds your
prior law doesn't matter, which you have --
QUESTION: It's a Federal overlay on a
nonexistent right, if I understand you correctly.
MS. MILLETT: Well, there's a -- there is --
there's no doubt that there's a Federal level of
protection here for privacy, and it's at an aggregated,
collective system-wide level. It's not at the individual
level of --
QUESTION: But you use the word overlay,
Mr. Roberts used the word obligation, you stay away from
the term, right, in the statute. If we followed Justice
Stevens' line of questions and concluded that there is a
Federal right, would you necessarily -- would your
position -- would that be fatal to your position, or would
you say it's a right that can be enforced through a
comprehensive administrative scheme?
MS. MILLETT: In two ways it wouldn't. It's not
at issue in this case, and the second argument is that the
nature of the -- whatever the nature of the right is
that's created here, Congress has created the very type of
scheme that it thinks is appropriate to enforce these
collective, aggregated, system-wide rights that it created
here, that in fact --
QUESTION: Well, are you in effect saying, as
Mr. Roberts did, I think when he used the word,
opportunity, that this is kind of, that the scheme of this
section is sort of an if-then sort of scheme. If you deny
them the opportunity then -- and you do so on a systemic
basis, then the Secretary will take, or should take
certain action. Is that -- you are saying essentially the
same thing that he did.
MS. MILLETT: Yes.
QUESTION: So when you say there's a Federal
right, you really mean there's an opportunity. If the
opportunity is denied, then certain administrative action
can be taken.
MS. MILLETT: That's right. There's a Federal
obligation -- to use Mr. Roberts' words, a Federal
obligation, once you take these funds, to not have system-
wide practices or policies that either deny access or, in
this case, disclose without consent, or an authorized
basis for disclosure, and I think it's very -- again, very
unique language. You have -- you didn't have to look at
the two separately, but when you combined the no-funds
language and the focus on system-wide policies and
practices, that this Court made clear in Blessing that
type of aggregate language doesn't create individual
lights -- rights, excuse me, and then you marry to that
the fact that Congress has enacted an administrative
scheme that is directly responsive to that type of system-
wide overlay, there should not --
QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Millett.
MS. MILLETT: thank you.
QUESTION: Ms. Brinkmann, we'll hear from you.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BETH S. BRINKMANN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. BRINKMANN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In FERPA, Congress gave parents the right to
prevent the release of certain educational records.
That's evident from Congress' choice of words and the
structure and history of the statute. There are at least
five indications of that intent, including references to
rights under that provision, which I'll get to in a
moment. It involves reading two sections together.
First, in section -- this is on page 9a of the
red brief, at the very top. In 1232g(b)(2)(A), at the top
of page 9a, Congress prohibited a recipient from having a
policy of releasing education records, quote, unless there
is written consent from the students' parents. Congress
did not say, unless there is a policy of obtaining written
consent. Congress thereby --
QUESTION: Now, you're reading from 9a, Ms.
Brinkmann? Whereabouts on page 9a?
MS. BRINKMANN: At the very top, Your Honor,
paragraph 2 begins that no fund shall be given to an
agency, and explains that has a policy or --
QUESTION: -- see it either. I'm looking at
page --
QUESTION: I think she said red brief.
QUESTION: 9a of the red brief.
MS. BRINKMANN: It's on page 8a of the --
QUESTION: You're switching briefs on us.
MS. BRINKMANN: I'm sorry.
(Laughter.)
MS. BRINKMANN: It's on page 8a of the blue
brief, if you prefer that. The problem is, there are
other provisions in here I need to refer to. At the very
top of the page, it explains that no funds shall go to a
school that has a policy of releasing information, and at
the end of that first paragraph, quote, unless, and then
we go to subparagraph (A), there is written consent from
the students' parents.
Congress did not say, unless the school has a
policy of obtaining consent.
QUESTION: Yes, it does. It says no money will
go to an educational agency or institution which has a
policy or practice.
MS. BRINKMANN: Unless.
QUESTION: Unless.
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes.
QUESTION: Now, if you don't have a policy or
practice, the whole provision doesn't apply.
MS. BRINKMANN: If you don't have a policy or
practice of releasing information other than under the
preceding (b)(1), you're correct, Your Honor.
QUESTION: The whole thing wouldn't apply, so I
don't --
MS. BRINKMANN: And (b)(2)(A) is -- (b)(1) says
you can't -- a school can't have a policy of releasing
without consent, other than to certain categories.
QUESTION: It's a question of whether you read
the word policy, what policy? I think Justice Scalia is
reading it as, what policy?
MS. BRINKMANN: It's a policy --
QUESTION: A policy of releasing records without
written consent.
MS. BRINKMANN: That's not what not -- that's
not what (b)(2)(A) says. That language is not -- that is,
the without consent is in (b)(1). It's not in (b)(2). It
says, has a policy or practice of releasing or providing
access to any personally identifiable information, other
than direct information, or is permitted under paragraph
(1). That's what paragraph (1) does. It permits a
laundry list of releases where Congress said, we're not
going to require parental consent.
School educators need this information. (b)(1),
no problem, you get all of this information without
parental consent. Other than in those situations, if you
have policy or practice, then the school decides --
QUESTION: I'm really not following you. What
do you think the unless goes to? I take it that the
unless goes to, no funds shall be made available.
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes.
QUESTION: Unless.
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes.
QUESTION: Okay.
MS. BRINKMANN: So --
QUESTION: But that whole provision, no funds
shall be made available, only applies to an educational
agency or institution which has a policy or practice of
releasing.
MS. BRINKMANN: Absolutely.
QUESTION: If it doesn't have a policy or
practice of releasing, it's entirely exempt from that
provision.
MS. BRINKMANN: That's correct, Your Honor,
because they did not -- Congress did not intend to go
after inadvertent releases.
For example, the school makes a decision if they
are going to have a policy of releasing information to a
scholarship program, or to the press, and if they have a
policy release, they have to abide by this very specific
requirement in (b)(2)(A).
QUESTION: Well --
MS. BRINKMANN: They may choose not to. It's
parallel to the directory information provision in the
statute.
Congress also said, you, school, can make a
choice. If you want to release things like names,
classes, awards receipts under the directory information
provision, you can make that decision. You have to give
notice at the beginning of the year, and you have to give
parents enough time to respond whether or not they want to
opt out of that.
Same thing under (b)(2)(A). If you as a
university decide that you want to have a policy or
practice of releasing things beyond what is already
authorized under (b)(1), which includes other teachers,
emergency situations, Federal officials, all kinds of
situations, then you have to abide by (b)(2)(A), and you
cannot have that policy or practice unless there is
written consent from the students' parents.
QUESTION: But it appears to be a scheme, at
least as I read it, just directed at when Federal funds
are going to be given to a school, and you determine that
by whether the school has a particular policy or practice,
and the remedy is withholding funds. I don't see how you
extrapolate from this statute the intent to create a
private cause of action for damages.
MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, in addition to the
language, unless there is, our position is, because there
is that requirement, unless there is written consent from
the parent, Congress intended to directly benefit the
parents and to say to the parents in a particular
situation, you can say no, I don't want this information
released. Parents may have different decisions based on
whether or not they think it will benefit the child.
QUESTION: But they can't do that, because I
mean, if the information is released and the parent says,
I object, the institution can say, oh, I'm sorry, that was
just a mistake. We don't have that policy. You know, we
released it. Too bad. We don't have the policy. So
there is no absolute right on the part of the parent to
prevent it.
MS. BRINKMANN: There is, Your Honor, because
the -- if they do have a policy and practice, it's akin to
the standard that the Court adopted in Gebser, and here
Congress did that. They said, we are not going to charge
every institution with inadvertent release, but to the
extent, as under Monell, if there is requisite knowledge
by the school that they have a policy or practice, they're
intending to be releasing information, they are charged
with getting the consent from the parents, and again I
have to --
QUESTION: The consequence, if they don't get
consent from the parents, the express consequence is no
funds shall be made available.
MS. BRINKMANN: Which is the commonality in all
of the Spending Clause cases that have come before the
Court, Your Honor.
QUESTION: Ms. Brinkmann, but not the emphasis,
as was pointed out by Mr. Roberts. Title IX, title VI
say, no person shall be, and this starts out with no
funds. Do you have any statutes, any spending statutes
that uses the no funds shall, instead of no person shall
be denied, where this Court has either implied a private
right of action, or has found a right which 1983 can then
be used to enforce?
MS. BRINKMANN: Well, Your Honor, there's never
been a formula. None of the statutes where the Court has
found a right has included that language, Wright, Wilde,
or Blessing, none of them have the language the petitioner
and the Solicitor General now urges.
In fact, in footnote 12 of the Suter opinion the
Court contrasted the language where they were not finding
a right to a statute that, quote, said, no Federal payment
may be made under this part, and they said, now, there's a
specific requirement, so there's no formula. None of the
courts have had this language that they're now urging.
The Suter opinion refers to this type of language as being
more specific, and it doesn't as a practical matter make
any difference what these Spending Clause statutes do say.
If you receive Federal funds, you have to abide by these
conditions.
QUESTION: I'm not sure that I gave you my
question precisely. There are title VI, title IX,
statutes that use the formula, no person shall, and under
those statutes a right of action has been implied, and
what I'm asking is, is there any statute with the
language, no funds shall, where a right of action has been
implied?
MS. BRINKMANN: No statute of that language has
ever come before the Court, Your Honor, and all I'm saying
is, there are many other cases in which statutes have been
found to accord rights under section 1983 that don't have
that no-student-shall language.
QUESTION: What about -- you say, you agree
there is no example of a case we've decided where the term
is no funds shall?
MS. BRINKMANN: That statute has not come before
the Court. I have to say in the title IX and title VI
context, it was a broader inquiry of whether or not there
was implied cause of action, but in Your Honor's opinion,
in Suter, in footnote 12, it does refer to this type of
statute and suggests that that is a direct requirement.
QUESTION: If I may --
QUESTION: Well, where is the statute -- the
footnote you're quoting speaks in terms of, or addresses
the no funds shall?
MS. BRINKMANN: The precise language in that
statute which is quoted in that footnote says that no
Federal funds payments shall be made, Your Honor. It's on
page 361 of the opinion, and it's citing 42 U.S.C. 672(e)
that says, quote, for example, no Federal payment may be
made under this part, and then it goes on and it says that
that is an example of more precise requirements as
contrasted to the statute in Suter.
If I may, there are four other provisions I'd
like to speak to in addition to the language, unless there
is. In addition, again on page 9a under (b)(2)(A), it's
not just unless there is written consent. That consent
has to have included a provision of a copy of what is
intended to be released by the school to the parents. The
parents have to be told why the information is being
released, and the parents have to know to whom it is being
released. That is exactly what the Court referenced in
Blessing about Congress addressing the particular need of
the individuals who they're according the rights to.
They knew that parents were going to be able to
need to know why the information was provided, exactly
what it is, and to whom. Parents may think it's fine to
release financial information, personal information about
their household for a scholarship or an honorary award
purpose, but not, for example, to a newspaper story about
low income families in the school district.
Third, the history of the -- before I go to the
history, actually, I want to explain another provision of
the statute which I think --
QUESTION: Two more. You have two more coming.
You said you had four.
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes. Yes. Actually, I'm going
to jump in, though, because this responds to questions of
the Court about the use of the word, right. If you could
turn to page 12a in the red brief, subsection (d),
1232g(d), is entitled, "Students Rather than Parents'
Permission or Consent." That clearly references the
permission or consent under (b)(2)(A). That is where this
permission or consent is referenced in FERPA, and it
explains there the purpose of it, to explain that when a
student becomes 18, as the student here was, or attending
a school of higher education, the permission or consent
required, and the rights accorded to the parents of the
students, shall be required in accordance -- (b)(2)(A)
gives the student, requires permission or consent, and
then gives the right to deny permission or consent. That
is a direct reference to the rights under (b)(2)(A).
Moreover, as members of the --
QUESTION: So we have right, the word right used
in (b) as well as in (a), or at least with reference to
(b) as well as with reference to (a).
MS. BRINKMANN: Much more precisely, Your Honor,
here, because they are specifically talking not just about
(b) generically, but about permission or consent.
QUESTION: Why does right refer to (b)? I mean,
rights could refer to (a).
MS. BRINKMANN: Because the whole provision of
(d) refers to permission nor consent, Your Honor. There is
no permission or --
QUESTION: No, it says permission or consent of
and the rights.
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes.
QUESTION: So --
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes, but --
QUESTION: (b), the first is this, and the other
is that.
MS. BRINKMANN: But if you look at the structure
of the provision, they are referring to the actual
permission or consent, because that's when you would need
to know, do I go to the -- when I -- for a college
student, do I go to the --
QUESTION: The right to inspect after he's 18 is
a right that goes to the student, not to the parent.
MS. BRINKMANN: But Your Honor, this is
specifically addressing the permission or consent
provision. You can tell by the heading of subsection (d).
Moreover, under (e), as Your Honor pointed out
before, the school is obligated to inform parents or
students of their rights under the regulations promulgated
by the Secretary of Education. One of the rights they are
required to inform parents and students about is the
consent --
QUESTION: Ms. Brinkmann --
MS. BRINKMANN: -- required there.
QUESTION: Where does it say that? Where does
it say that?
MS. BRINKMANN: It would be in the regulations,
Your Honor.
QUESTION: In the regulations, okay, fine.
QUESTION: Even if we say that you met the three
Blessing standards, Blessing still kind of said in that
opinion, there's something more, and the more is what
seems to be the strongest emphasis of the case that Mr.
Robert and Ms. Millett made, and that is that Congress
created an enforcement scheme that they meant to be it,
that would be incompatible with individual enforcement.
MS. BRINKMANN: Actually that, ironically, leads
me to my third point, in fact. When you look at this
history, Congress clearly was addressing the interest of
parents in controlling dissemination of information about
their children. This is a paradigm example of what they
were worrying about, information that's gossip,
unsubstantiated, never had a chance to respond to it,
could have a devastating effect on a student's career.
Under petitioner's interpretation --
QUESTION: But the issue isn't whether they were
worried about that. The issue is whether they wanted to
eliminate that worry by having the Secretary police the
thing, or by having lawsuits to vindicate private rights.
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes, Your Honor, and I think --
QUESTION: I don't see how you advance the ball
at all by saying what they were worried about was
precisely this thing. I mean, I think Mr. Roberts would
stipulate that.
MS. BRINKMANN: Well, it was the point that
Justice Ginsburg brought up before, which actually I think
responds to your inquiry. Under petitioner's
interpretation, if this student had found out that this
information was about to be released, information he could
prove was false, he would have no avenue to prevent the
release of that. There was no method at the Department of
Education to provide any individual remedy, let alone our
TRO, and I think that that's even magnified by --
QUESTION: It may not be the ideal remedy. It
may not be the best remedy, and one of the anomalies here
that wouldn't be present in title IX is working through
1983, where you must have a State action pegged. Now,
here, it happened that there was a connection with a
State, with a State officer. The conversation was between
private institutions and State officer, but suppose we
have two schools, and one is about to give a record to a
newspaper, and the other is about to do the same thing,
and one is the State university, and one is the private
university.
Under your scheme, the private university would
be home free, it wouldn't be subject to 1983 liability,
but the public would, and I think that would be a strange
scheme for Congress to enact.
MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, actually it's much
more complicated than that. It's just not whether or not
suits are available against public or private, because, of
course, State universities are often deemed arms of the
State, so they're not subject to suit at all. The only
action that can be brought against a State official is for
injunctive relief. Moreover, most private elementary and
secondary schools, as was pointed out in the amicus brief
in support of respondent, don't receive Federal funding,
so there are a lot of different ways in which there may be
different actions, but that is because of 1983 Eleventh
Amendment --
QUESTION: Well, maybe that shows that 1983
really doesn't fit this pattern, because why -- even, why
should certain kinds of institutions be stopped, and
others not, from doing the same thing?
MS. BRINKMANN: Because the relationship of
students at the private school is different than a
relationship with a public school. A relationship of a
student at public school is defined by State law. It
is -- and that's what an action under 1983 is, it's under
color of State law.
QUESTION: But doesn't the student have the
same, whether we're going to call it right or opportunity,
in the private school with respect to records, like a
private university?
MS. BRINKMANN: Only if the school receives
Federal funds. Secondary and elementary --
QUESTION: Which an overwhelming number of
schools do.
MS. BRINKMANN: Only universities, Your Honor.
Actually, the amicus brief of the ACLU cites a letter from
the Department of Education explaining that the vast
majority of private schools, elementary and secondary, do
not receive Federal funding, but if I may, I think that
the important point here is, the relationship of a student
with a private school is different. There is a
contractual relationship there, and there may very well be
other remedies against a private school arising out of --
for example, here in Exhibit 1 at the trial, the handbook,
Gonzaga promised to abide by FERPA and said, we will not
release information without your consent. There could be
a contractual action there. You can't have those kinds of
actions against a school, public school. That's why
Congress created section 1983. There was --
QUESTION: Ms. Brinkmann, can I come back to
your assertion that there is no right to an injunction,
you can't get an injunction under this act, but you can't
get an injunction, even if we accept your theory of the
act. You cannot get an injunction unless you show not
only that they're about to release this information, but
also that this is their practice or policy.
MS. BRINKMANN: Absolutely, Your Honor.
QUESTION: Isn't that right?
MS. BRINKMANN: Absolutely, and --
QUESTION: So what good does that do you? You
have to go in --
MS. BRINKMANN: Because in this case you needed
the testimony of one witness --
QUESTION: Which suggests that you're not
vindicating a private right of yours, that somehow what
Congress is concerned with is the existence of a policy or
practice that it doesn't like, even though --
MS. BRINKMANN: With all due respect --
QUESTION: Even though you're being harmed by
this release, under your theory you can't get an
injunction against it.
MS. BRINKMANN: I respectfully disagree.
QUESTION: Unless you show that there's a policy
or practice.
MS. BRINKMANN: You absolutely could get an
injunction, Your Honor.
QUESTION: How so?
MS. BRINKMANN: Because you needed the testimony
of one witness in this case who said, we do this all of
the time. We disclose information to the State agency
before --
QUESTION: You need that witness, and if you
don't have such a witness, you cannot get an injunction,
isn't that right?
MS. BRINKMANN: That's right. That's a matter
of proof, and Your Honor, what -- I just have to emphasize
that what the provision here goes to with the policy and
practice in (b)(2)(A) is Monell, Gebser, it is Congress
saying, we're not going to charge every university with
this requirement. If they have a policy or practice, if
this decision is made at a high enough level that they
would have requisite knowledge, that's the only place in
which this section 1983 liability would be triggered.
QUESTION: Is there -- can I ask you one
question on the practicality? Assuming all the language
is ambiguous, et cetera, and I would like you to remove
this image from my mind, the image that I have in my mind
was an earlier case argued here in this Court, and as a
result of the lawyer's argument in that case I focused on
the language, educational record, and I realized it's a
close question, perhaps, as to whether those words do
include things like a gold star the third grade teacher
might give out in class, or the statement, you're going to
get a bad mark on your report card.
I suddenly realized it's highly ambiguous, and
the lawyer said that he had been cross-examining the
school officials on this and related questions in the
courtroom for several hours, I thought. I mean, at least
for a time, and suddenly it occurred to me, how are they
teaching or running the school district, and the image
that came up in my courtroom was of private actions all
over the place trying to bring into court school officials
to interpret language which really doesn't explain itself.
Therefore, a need for centralized
administration, which of course would be harmful to some
parents, but counterbalanced by the need for effective
school administration, and those were the things in my
mind, and that's the image it called up, and I want you to
reply to that, because I think that's at the heart of
this, at least the practical part.
QUESTION: I think I have at least five answers.
I haven't counted them off. First of all, I think it's
important to realize that that's one of the reasons you
have the particularized examination in Blessing. We are
not saying there's a right under every one of these
provisions, but if you look at (b)(2)(A), unless there is
the specific requirement, the history of it, and also if
you compare it to the other release provisions that do not
have this kind of right, they say you have to notify the
parent, or you have to make the person who's getting it
promise to destroy it when they're done with it. They
don't have this right.
So if you look at this particular right, then
you step back and you realize what the Department of
Education has been saying. Schools comply with this
statute. It is clear and simple. You give them a copy,
you ask the parents -- tell the parents why and to whom it
is going.
In the 28 years since this statute has been
enacted, there has been no flood of litigation, despite
the fact that the Second Circuit, I think 15 years ago,
held that there was a section 1983 cause of action, the
Fifth Circuit more than 10 years ago. There is no Federal
court of appeals that has taken petitioner's position.
think in the past 5 or 6 years there have been at least
two more circuits. People comply.
QUESTION: But Ms. Brinkmann, if your -- if the
force -- if we accept the force of your argument, then I
think we'd have to say, well, Congress really didn't need
to bother with the centralized administration provision,
and yet Congress did put it in, and it seems to me the
most likely reason that it put it in is the reason that
Justice Breyer just gave.
MS. BRINKMANN: I think --
QUESTION: So you may have made a good argument
for getting rid of it, but as long as it's there, it seems
to have the same lesson that his question suggests.
MS. BRINKMANN: I think that the FPCO office
serves a admirably meritorious role. It answers countless
numbers of phone calls and inquiries about this, but its
own interpretation of its role I think is really
illustrated by footnote 6 in our brief, which is on page
35.
In 1987, when FPCO changed regulations, it
explained that it wasn't going to require schools even to
afford them access to education records information
because they don't go out and investigate.
What more accurately reflects their
investigation is allowing schools to submit reports -- and
this is quotes -- since its inception, FPCO has not
conducted any on-site visits to resolve complaints.
Rather, it has resolved complaints through correspondence
and telephone calls with the affected parties, and that
works in the vast majority of cases.
In the limited number of cases that are brought
under FERPA in the Federal courts, Federal and State
courts since its enactment, this is the only reported case
that anyone has located for punitive damages, and the only
other case that had any damages was $1 of nominal damages
that we've been able to --
QUESTION: But that may be a very good argument
for saying that what Congress had in mind, in effect, in
confining the enforcement the way it seems to have done by
this exclusive authority provision works in the general
run of cases, and therefore there is not a good reason to
say that Congress probably would have wanted this private
right of action with the punitive damages.
MS. BRINKMANN: I think it works generally, and
then you look at the Blessing inquiry to see if Congress
intended to create a right, they intended to create a
right from all of those reasons I said. Once you get
there, it's clear, it's mandatory --
QUESTION: But we're at the -- we're beyond
stage 1, 2, 3 --
MS. BRINKMANN: It's -- yes.
QUESTION: -- and we're saying, okay, are there
particular reasons to think that they did not.
MS. BRINKMANN: Then it's presumptively
available, a section 1983 action. It's not an implied
cause of action. Congress created 1983 and said, if you
have a Federal right, you can enforce it in court. It is
against that presumption the petitioner has to carry the
heavy burden that this Court has found met only twice, in
the Sea Clammers case and Smith v. Robinson.
QUESTION: Why isn't the theory of centralized
administration, spelled out in the statute, with the
Secretary's office doing this thing, why doesn't that
overcome the presumption?
MS. BRINKMANN: Because the presumption has to
be overcome by an enforcement scheme, an administrative
scheme that supplants the section 1983 that has some
address for a private remedy.
QUESTION: Well, certainly it doesn't have to be
a duplicate of section 1983, or there would be no point in
saying it supplants it.
MS. BRINKMANN: Absolutely, Your Honor, but here
there is absolutely no availability for any remedy for an
individual injury, and Sea Clammers --
QUESTION: Ms. Brink --
QUESTION: Well now, wait a minute. As I
understand it, people who are aggrieved by some practice
in the schools can get a hold of the Secretary's office
and -- by a phone call and perhaps by the Secretary's
action in saying, either you fly right or we'll cut off
funds, they do have a remedy.
MS. BRINKMANN: Not under (b)(2)(A), if they
have released records. There's no provision for any kind
of damages compensation for an individual, and the Court
has looked at that role of the administrative scheme in
its line of cases, deciding whether or not it was
sufficient to supplant this congressionally created right
under section 1983. In the two cases --
QUESTION: Ms. Brinkmann, can you give us one
other example of a right that depends upon whether the
person allegedly violating the right has done it before?
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes, Your Honor.
QUESTION: Or has a policy or practice of doing
it? For example, you know, your right to be free from
unreasonable searches and seizures.
QUESTION: I suppose you're going to tell us
about the Monell case.
MS. BRINKMANN: I was going to cite the Monell
case. I think that's --
QUESTION: No, no, no.
MS. BRINKMANN: -- exactly what the Monell case
is about.
QUESTION: That depends on whom you can sue.
That depends upon whom you can assert the right against,
but against the individual you can assert that right,
whether there's a policy or practice or not. That's
simply the question of whether you can reach the
municipality, but I cannot think of a single other right
in the world which only exists as a right when somebody is
a two-time loser, or has a policy, or practice.
MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, a policy or practice
may not have injured anyone in the past. They may have a
written policy in saying, we're going to release these
things to --
QUESTION: Maybe, but it's a very strange right.
I don't know of any --
MS. BRINKMANN: This is the fact --
QUESTION: I mean, I have another rights
question, too, but I -- you're relying on the use of the
right, of the term, right, in the statute. What do you
do -- what do you conceive to be the -- it's on the --
it's on page 4a of the blue brief.
It refers to the privacy rights of students. It
says that no funds shall be available, blah, blah, blah,
unless in accordance with regulations of the Secretary,
the student or parents has a right to challenge the
content of each student's education record in order to
ensure that the records are not inaccurate, misleading, or
otherwise in violation of the privacy rights of students.
Is that also the creation of a Federal privacy right?
MS. BRINKMANN: I don't believe so, Your Honor.
I have to --
QUESTION: Does it refer to existing State
privacy rights, or just sort of a moral notion of what
things should be kept private?
MS. BRINKMANN: Well, I have to emphasize, our
statutory argument about rights is not based solely on the
1232g(d) referenced rights. It's based on the, unless
there is consent from the parents, and on this
particularized consent required, giving parents a copy,
telling them to whom am I -- that is what demonstrates
under the Blessing standard it was intended to benefit
parents and to address their specific needs to protect
their children from information they have never been
informed about, as in this case, that destroyed this
person's career.
That's exactly what Congress was aiming at, and
without -- in petitioner's position there was absolutely
nothing that anyone can do to protect that right. The
Department of Education cannot give individual relief, and
this -- anybody will be barred from going into court.
Fortunately, this doesn't happen. It's simple. Schools
comply with it. This is an exceptionally unusual and
egregious case.
QUESTION: Well, Ms. Brinkmann, there haven't
been other cases where substantial monetary damages and
punitive damages have been available, and maybe that's the
concern. I mean, it's -- this is a person who did have a
right. There was a contract right, and there was the
deformation, but by bringing 1983 into the picture, the
damages are increased for the same conduct, and you can
pick up 1988 counsel fees.
MS. BRINKMANN: It's not the same conduct, Your
Honor, if I may. First of all, deformation would not
necessarily cover cases that involved truthful
information, but in this particular case, if I could just
make clear, what I think -- first of all, this involved
compensatory damages, just not punitive, but of course
this Court's ruling will affect injunctive actions also,
but in this case, because this information was released at
the very outset of this investigation, it affected the
school's decision about whether or not to issue an
affidavit to my client.
There was disagreement -- even as it stood,
without any information from my client to say this was
false, there was disagreement amongst the school officials
about whether or not to issue this, and plaintiff's
exhibit 28 has a chronology. The people at the school who
were in favor of releasing, of not giving the affidavit
got State officials to contact the dean and --
QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Brinkmann.
Mr. Roberts, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Your Honor.
Two statutes enacted within 2 years of each
other: title IX, no person shall be subject to
discrimination; FERPA, no funds shall be made available to
an institution that has a policy or practice described in
the statute, and the Secretary shall deal with violations,
and the Secretary shall do that at one place, because
we're worried about multiple interpretations causing
confusion.
Now, that is two -- those are two very different
ways of approaching a problem. Under this Court's
precedents the former, the title IX model confers
privately enforceable rights. The latter does not. Why
would Congress proceed differently in dealing with
educational institutions in those two different contexts?
Because of the appreciation that the regulation of student
records from kindergarten through graduate school directly
implicated pedagogical concerns.
It would have been a radical notion, even in
1974, for Congress to confer individual rights on every
student from kindergarten to graduate school in a way that
would directly implicate the day-to-day running of schools
across the country, and there's no evidence to suggest
that that's what Congress had in mind.
The evidence is the opposite. It proceeded
gingerly. It said, this is directed to the Secretary.
It's directed to policies and practice. Who's going to
deal with violations? Mr. Secretary, deal with
violations, and do it in one place. Four months after
FERPA was enacted, in response to what was called by the
sponsors the perplexity and frustration it had caused --
four months -- they added the second sentence to
subsection (g) on page 12a of the blue brief, and that
said, don't do any of this, Mr. Secretary, in any of the
regional offices. The reason? We're afraid of multiple
interpretation.
Well, multiple interpretations caused by
regional offices, there's a slight problem there, are,
after all, answerable to the Secretary. Individual
private plaintiffs suing in State and Federal court around
the country, any one of these 62 million students covered
by the Federal funds requirement, that would give rise to
multiple interpretations, and it is implausible to
suppose --
QUESTION: They're answerable to us, presumably.
We could take care of all of that, right?
(Laughter.)
MR. ROBERTS: Well, it is implausible to suppose
that the same Congress that was so worried about multiple
interpretations of the law from the regional offices of
one Department would have been perfectly content and, in
fact, intended to confer the right for every one of 62
million students to go into court in a 1983 action.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.
Roberts.
MR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:00 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
13:9 16:11,25 17:16 19:17 aggregate 24:19 assume 5:19
32:20 33:25 34:5,7,16 35:10 aggregated 21:10 23:3,19 Assuming 42:11
36:13 37:7,9,14,19 38:1,13,14 aggrieved 47:12 attending 34:23
45:1 48:7,12 49:22 50:5 51:7 ago 44:7,9 attention 8:9
52:2 53:18 agree 32:20 authority 8:25 9:14 45:25
50:8 allegedly 48:1 28:5,12 31:5 38:23 46:15 49:9 50:17
almost 7:6 award 34:6
24:2,7 30:2 31:15 32:11,13 another 22:16 34:10 49:3 bad 30:15 42:20
38:9 39:1,16 40:13 44:8 46:3 answer 10:10 12:16 13:10,12 17:23 ball 37:18
47:15 53:22 answerable 53:8,14 barred 50:11
anybody 50:11 basis 19:25 24:1,14
appeals 44:10 34:9 36:10 37:23 41:22 48:1
approaching 52:5 believe 49:16
April 1:10 benefiting 19:9
50:2 charged 30:25 condition 3:16
39:3 40:2 45:3 49:7 53:2 chose 18:18 conferred 14:19,20
27:1,6,12,15 28:6,8 Clammers 46:20 47:9 4:19 6:4,6,24 7:1,5 8:10 9:6 12:25
29:3 30:3,18 31:6,9,17 clarify 17:13 14:8,13 15:1,9 18:16,18,21 20:14
33:8 34:14 35:9,14,19,21 class 42:19 21:14 22:2,4,6,13 23:17 24:21 25:6
36:6,15,16,19 37:4,17,22 classes 29:8 25:8,15,17,19 26:16 27:22 28:20
39:12,22 40:1,16,23,25 41:3,9 Clause 31:7 32:5 29:6 30:6,21 33:25 37:1,6 38:20
42:1 44:13,20,24 46:4 clear 6:24 12:16 19:10,19 20:7 24:18 40:15 41:7 42:4 44:15,17 45:23 46:2
47:7,17,24 48:2,8,11,21 44:2 46:8 51:2 46:5,16 50:7 52:8,14,18 53:18
50:15,23 51:16 clearly 34:19 37:6 congressionally 47:22
24:13 32:21 36:25 41:3,20 compare 43:19 contractual 40:8,13
45:18,20 46:20 48:7,9,11 compensation 12:4 47:19 contrast 4:24
51:1,5 54:1,2 compensatory 51:3 contrasted 31:23 33:15
50:16,25 complainants 10:7 conversation 38:11
compliance 8:15,16 9:25 10:1 11:3 correspondence 11:6 16:16 45:13
43:3 44:10 46:17,19 47:19 devastating 37:11 emergency 29:17
53:9,22 developmentally 5:14 emphasis 31:9 36:25
directly 24:22 30:6 52:11,16 enforce 7:1 21:14 23:18 31:16 46:17
37:2 40:15 46:16 47:22 disabled 5:14 enforced 23:12
47:19 50:16,17,21 51:3 distributed 18:12,12 establish 4:4 9:7
53:20 28:12 42:16 52:9 existing 49:18
37:5 44:7 49:2 53:21 freestanding 13:21 happens 5:2
23:2,10 24:5,9,10 29:17,22 31:5,12,13 32:6,13,22 33:7,10 39:23 held 18:14 44:8
32:6 33:10,12 39:4,23 40:5 47:16 49:9 51:23 53:11 helps 9:6
45:17,17 46:17 49:15 53:9,11 future 11:14 high 42:7
25:6 34:21 40:11 45:17 51:23 gave 25:6 32:8 44:19 Hmm 16:20
Gebser 30:20 42:4 hold 47:13
21:1,2,2,9 25:13 26:13 35:22 gives 35:2,3 household 34:6
50:24 51:2 giving 49:25 51:14
10:6 11:12 13:1,2,7 18:16 JR 1:15 2:3,13 3:7 51:18 33:17 39:20 41:8 42:12,18
20:1 23:4 24:19 37:3 38:4 judicial 4:14 18:22 likely 9:22 44:18
48:15 50:10 52:14 53:8 jump 34:15 limited 45:16
29:4,8 30:8,12,25 33:22 34:3 53:23 54:1 long 20:15 44:22
37:7,9 38:1,1 40:12,21 41:21 look 5:2,23,25 6:1,22,24 7:10 8:7 13:5
50:4 51:1,5,10 K 14:11 17:6,19 19:20 24:15 35:24
kindergarten 52:11,15 loser 48:20
20:20 21:4 36:4 labored 20:15 magnified 38:5
14:25 22:17 26:19 28:13 42:11,16 43:4 makes 4:1,4,8 8:5 17:24 18:3 20:7
51:24 large 9:16 28:22
latter 6:12 52:7 manner 17:10
50:2 53:21 law 22:11,23 39:15,17 53:19 marry 24:20
35:12 37:20 42:24 49:3 50:18 nothing 10:23 50:9 36:9 37:25 39:3 40:9 42:19 45:8
18:23 19:4,19 20:24 21:8,20
23:1,14 24:4,9,24,25 O P
O 2:1 3:1 P 3:1
45:23 52:18 obligation 6:23 18:25 23:7 24:10,11 49:7 53:2
34:12,12 35:9 36:24,24 38:22 oh 15:24 30:13 43:11
45:9 okay 16:2 17:23 28:9 36:21 46:12 participate 6:8,19
43:5,7 44:15 opposite 52:19 47:12 51:13
51:19 preventing 20:6 13:11,19 14:1,15 15:3,8,11,14,18,22
9:3,6,25 10:11 11:3 prohibition 4:19 R
12:24 13:3,6,15,22 14:21 promise 43:22 R 3:1
16:11 17:19 19:25 20:5,19 promised 40:11 radical 52:13
26:12,17,20,24 27:1,7 prompt 13:22 rather 4:9 34:18 45:13
28:2,13,16,23 promulgated 36:11 rationale 6:13
29:14,19,24 30:14,15,19,24 prong 19:8 reach 48:17
41:7,14 42:3,6 48:3,16,20,21 prongs 19:7 read 27:9 29:22
51:24 proof 42:2 reading 20:3 25:12,20 27:11
50:8 prospective 12:4 realized 42:16,21
9:4,6 10:12,16 11:19 12:25 protection 23:3 53:4
14:21,22 26:20,25 27:2,18 prove 38:2 reasons 17:5 43:14 46:7,13
29:15,19,24 30:19,24 provide 4:13 38:4 REBUTTAL 2:12 51:18
41:8,15 42:4,6 47:12 48:3,16 provided 14:9,24 34:3 receipts 29:8
51:24 52:21 provides 11:16 receive 32:6 39:4 40:5
49:8 rid 44:22 school 3:19 9:10 10:17 11:13 12:9
30:22 34:5 38:3 40:12,21 41:11 48:19,25 49:5,5,11,15 50:9,19,19 secondary 39:3,23 40:4
48:23 53:15,21 secondly 13:8 21:11
47:18 51:5 5:22,23 6:5,17 12:13 13:1,9 14:5,8 7:16 8:9,10 9:14 10:4,5,8 11:4,6
28:14,17,23 29:15 30:25 24:20 25:11 32:18 34:1,25 35:4,13 52:1,20,22 53:3,8
35:18 36:11,12 37:16 49:3,8,14,19 Secretary's 8:18,24 10:24 20:9 46:23
9:1,5,13,23 10:16 11:1,15,21,25 see 25:25 29:25 37:18 46:5
43:18 53:11 running 43:1 52:16 seven 9:21 10:14
43:6 47:2,12 structure 25:9 35:24 16:12 36:8 44:3 48:6
subjected 11:2 thank 3:9 7:15 16:2,3 24:24,25 51:16
50:3 subparagraph 26:14 theory 40:19 41:11 46:21
39:1,15,17 41:21 45:17 suits 38:23 third 34:9 37:5 42:18
51:15 53:9 supplant 47:22 though 34:15 41:8,10
11:16,16 12:3 13:4 14:2,16,19 suppose 20:18 38:12 48:6 53:13,17 23:12 38:8 45:13 52:11
15:4,4,5,6 16:15 17:13,20 Supreme 1:1,12 time 29:11 41:21 42:25
19:14,14,16 20:13 21:3,17,20 sure 13:12 21:16 22:14 32:8 title 3:17 4:25,25 13:6 18:17 31:10,10
22:10,19 23:8 25:9 29:5 30:1 Suter 31:22 32:3 33:2,15 32:9,9,24,24 38:8 51:22 52:6
32:12,15,23 33:3,5,9,15 34:11 switching 26:5 today 18:5
46:22 49:5 51:25 system 11:9 24:11,22 together 25:12
51:21 system-wide 19:25 20:8 23:4,19 tone 7:6
25:12 34:12,12 38:13 44:12 52:22,23 X 1:2,8
51:21 52:4,4,9 visits 45:12
years 3:17 6:3 16:15 17:12 18:17 44:5
15:6 16:15 17:21,21 wants 10:22 0
25:11 27:2,20 29:8,13,16 Washington 1:9,15,18,21 01-679 1:6 3:4
31:25 32:10,18 33:13,18 wasn't 45:6
35:4 36:9,11 37:12,24 38:17 water 11:24 1
40:18 41:11 43:16 45:17 way 11:9 13:2,6 15:9 21:12 45:24 1 27:3,6,17,21,21,24 29:16 40:10
50:2 52:5 52:15 46:10
39:21 42:5 50:15 53:6,17 12 31:22 33:2
28:4,5,7 29:19 30:4,5 21:13 31:23 34:2 37:9,13,19 43:8 1232g 21:1
40:20 41:14 43:17 49:10 51:14 1232g(a) 15:17
we'll 3:3 16:4 25:1 47:15 1232g(a)(1)(A) 15:21 20:19
32:10 34:16 49:4 35:14 17 21:22
Wilde 31:19 1974 3:11 18:17 52:14
21:2 23:17 24:14,14 25:14,22 works 45:15,25 46:4 2 3:17 18:17 25:23 27:6,16,17 29:1,13
28:25 40:8 45:22 48:25 51:6 world 48:19 29:18 33:18 34:20 35:1,4 42:4 43:17
worried 37:14,19 52:2 53:18 46:10 47:17 51:21
2:4 46:10
16:25
45:4
33:11
51:17
49:7
33:11
44:11
2:14
6:3 44:11 45:3
15:22,25
53:10,21
33:11
26:4,8
25:13,15,20,21 26:3 33:18
16:15
