IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 01-631
CHRISTOPHER DRAYTON AND :
CLIFTON BROWN, JR. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 16, 2002
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at
10:09 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
LARRY D. THOMPSON, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Petitioner.
GWENDOLYN SPIVEY, ESQ., Assistant Federal Public Defender,
Tallahassee, Florida; on behalf of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
LARRY D. THOMPSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
GWENDOLYN SPIVEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 23
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
LARRY D. THOMPSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:09 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument
now in No. 01-631, the United States v. Christopher
Drayton and Clifton Brown.
Mr. Thompson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LARRY D. THOMPSON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. THOMPSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This Court has held in several decisions that
the police questioning of individuals is a legitimate and,
indeed, vital law enforcement technique. The decision
below ignores this Court's teachings as to when a police-
citizen encounter on a bus may violate the Fourth
Amendment and may constitute the seizure of the passenger.
Police-citizen encounters have proven to be
effective law enforcement techniques in the area of drug
and weapon interdiction. These encounters are also
important in today's environment with respect to the
protection of passengers in the Nation's public
transportation system.
This case is controlled by this Court's decision
in Bostick and the court below incorrectly applied the
Bostick test to these facts.
QUESTION: Mr. Thompson, isn't it so that in
Bostick the police did inform the passengers that they had
a right to refuse consent?
MR. THOMPSON: That is correct, Your Honor, but
also in Bostick this Court clearly pointed out, on remand
to the Florida Supreme Court, the factors that the Court
should evaluate in terms of determining whether or not the
encounter was coercive or otherwise inappropriate. And
two of those factors are important here that would put
into context what the court below considered.
For example, this Court pointed out to the
Florida Supreme Court whether or not there were guns
pointed and noted that there were no guns pointed in a --
in the Bostick case. This Court also pointed out to the
Florida Supreme Court that -- whether or not there was the
existence of threatening language, and none of that
existed in the case below.
QUESTION: Well, I -- I suppose that the advice
that you have a right to decline the request applies --
and I -- I take it you could read Bostick this way;
perhaps you disagree -- to whether or not the -- the
consent was actually given as opposed to whether there was
a coercive environment.
MR. THOMPSON: That's correct, Your Honor, and
as the Bostick Court pointed out with respect to the test
to be applied is whether or not, under all the
circumstances, the police conduct communicated to a
reasonable person -- and that presupposes a reasonably --
a reasonable innocent person -- whether or not the
passenger could have refused the officer's request to
consent or otherwise have terminated the -- terminated the
encounter.
There is really nothing remarkable about the
facts of this case when you look at this Court's decision
in Bostick and compare Bostick with this Court's decision
in Robinette which clearly pointed --
QUESTION: My question, Mr. Thompson, was your
opening statement was that the Eleventh Circuit had ruled
in direct conflict with this Court's precedent. If we're
applying a totality of the circumstances test, that's one
circumstance that was present there, is not present here.
So, whether the Eleventh Circuit erred is for us to
determine today, but I do think it's a bit much to say
that they -- they just disregarded this Court's precedent.
MR. THOMPSON: Your Honor, the Eleventh Circuit
considered factors that were unlike the factors that this
Court in Bostick believed were important in determining
whether the police conduct at issue was coercive. And
moreover, Your Honor, the Eleventh Circuit incorrectly
applied the legal principles that this Court formulated
with respect to the facts of this case.
For example, the Eleventh Circuit noted the
importance of Officer Hoover at the front of the bus and
pointed out that his presence might lead a -- a passenger
to believe that he or she could not leave the bus. Well,
this Court in Bostick clearly pointed out that the -- in a
-- in the context of a bus interdiction effort, whether or
not the passenger could leave the bus was the wrong
question. The question was whether or not the passenger
-- whether or not the police conduct communicated to the
passenger whether or not they could refuse the consent
requested or whether or not they could just terminate the
questioning of the police officer.
QUESTION: Well, it's -- it's true that the --
the issue of whether someone could leave the bus or not is
-- is not really an issue that -- that focuses the
question, and we said so in Bostick. But it doesn't
follow from that that it was irrelevant in Bostick or that
it's irrelevant here that there was an officer stationed
at the front of the bus. If we're going to have a
totality of the circumstances test, wouldn't you agree
that that is one relevant fact to consider in trying to
reconstruct the atmosphere and decide whether or not it
signaled to the -- to the person searched the -- the
possibility of just ending the encounter?
MR. THOMPSON: Yes, Your Honor. That -- it is
one relevant fact to be taken into consideration with the
other factors, but here the officer stationed at the front
of the bus -- at the front of the bus really did not
communicate, nor did Officer Lang who was doing the
questioning -- did not communicate that -- to any
passenger that he or she could not terminate the
questioning.
QUESTION: He did -- nobody said, you can't
leave the bus. But isn't it a fact that a passenger would
take into some consideration that there was an officer
stationed at the front of the bus?
MR. THOMPSON: Your Honor --
QUESTION: He wasn't keeping people out,
apparently.
MR. THOMPSON: Excuse me.
QUESTION: It's -- it's a relevant fact in
determining the coerciveness of the atmosphere, is it not?
MR. THOMPSON: Your Honor, not in this case.
The court below and the Eleventh Circuit acknowledged in
-- in their findings, if you will, that the -- the aisle
was not blocked, the exit was not blocked. In fact,
every --
QUESTION: Let me -- let me try a -- a different
suggestion. The fact that the officer at the front of the
bus was kneeling in the driver's seat was one graphic
reminder of another fact in this case, and that is, that
the driver was gone. The driver had left the bus. The
only people exercising any kind of official capacity in
that bus were three police officers. One of them was
occupying the driver's seat. Isn't that a signal that
nobody is going to be going anywhere on this bus? This
bus isn't going to be going anywhere until the officers
are satisfied.
Now, that may or may not be dispositive of
anything, but it is a relevant fact on the question of
coercion and voluntariness. Isn't it?
MR. THOMPSON: Your Honor, the presence of the
officer at the front of the bus is a factor, but in the
context of these facts and if -- in the context of this
Court's decision in Delgado where you had armed agents
surrounding the factory, and this Court held that simply
because the factory workers could not leave without
passing those agents --
QUESTION: I agree with you. You're -- you're
absolutely right there. The -- the point that I'm making
is that you can't go through this kind of analysis and
say, well, this fact is irrelevant. This shouldn't have
been considered by the court. That fact was irrelevant.
That shouldn't have been considered. It was a relevant
fact. What it all adds up to, as you suggest by the
Delgado reference, is a different question, but it's a
relevant fact, isn't it?
MR. THOMPSON: It's a relevant fact, but the
factors to be considered and the factors that this Court
clearly announced in -- in the Bostick case were factors
that were threatening, factors that were otherwise
coercive, like pointing a gun. In this particular case,
Your Honor, the Eleventh Circuit even noted that there was
no evidence that any of the passengers saw that this
officer was armed. The officers were --
QUESTION: Mr. Thompson, did they know that he
was an officer? Was it clear that he was an officer?
MR. THOMPSON: The officer was conducting
individual passenger-specific questioning.
QUESTION: The -- the other two officers were I
know, but was there -- was it clear that the person
kneeling in the driver's seat was an officer?
MR. THOMPSON: He was casually dressed, Your
Honor, and it's not clear from the record as to whether or
not he was a police officer.
QUESTION: Did he have his badge? The other two
showed their badges. Did the one in the front show --
MR. THOMPSON: I don't believe the record is
clear as to where the badge was located with respect to
the officer at the front of the bus.
QUESTION: Did he enter with the other two?
MR. THOMPSON: Yes. They all entered as
passengers, all casually dressed.
And with respect to the conduct of this -- of
this search --
QUESTION: Well, I mean, I -- what -- I don't
know what that -- why should that make a difference. If
somebody shows me a badge and he's casually dressed, I
know he's got a gun, or he's going to be fired. An
officer is fired if he doesn't carry his gun. Everybody
knows that.
Let me -- let me ask you this. Would it be
appropriate in your view for this Court to write an
opinion in which we say that citizens have certain
obligations to know their rights and to assert their
rights? That's what makes for a strong democracy. The
law lives in the consciousness of the people. And people
have a certain obligation to assert their rights. If they
don't want to be searched, they say I don't want to be
searched. Should we write that in an opinion?
MR. THOMPSON: Well, that follows on with the --
the clear test that this Court announced in Bostick, and
the test was, Your Honor, whether or not the police
conduct commuted anything -- communicated anything to the
citizens and these passengers as to --
QUESTION: What about the proposition as I -- as
I've stated it? Because if you say yes -- and I think
there's a good answer for it -- then I'd just say, well,
we have to distinguish Miranda at least. Miranda is based
on a contrary assumption. That's what's running through
my mind as I'm asking the question.
MR. THOMPSON: Well, here -- here the -- the
citizens -- some citizens did refuse Officer Lang's
request, and what -- what you posit is -- is really the
guts of what is going on here. As Officer Lang testified,
Your Honor, many of the citizens -- most citizens went
along with the police questioning in -- in this particular
-- these particular bus interdictions, and they -- and
they were happy to do so. Officer Lang testified that
many of the bus passengers appreciated his efforts in
coming onto the bus. They -- it made them feel a sense of
-- of safety.
And here citizens generally do know their
rights, and here the police did not communicate anything
to these passengers that would indicate that they had to
answer, that they were required or otherwise compelled to
answer Officer Lang's questions.
QUESTION: Did any other case that we considered
involve a body pat-down, not just a request to look at
luggage? This -- in this case the -- the luggage didn't
turn up anything of interest to the police, but the pat-
down did.
And the image of let's take what is -- Mr.
Drayton is sitting next to a man who has just been hauled
off the bus, handcuffed. I imagine he would feel some
intimidation at that point when the police then turned to
him and said, okay, we'd like to search you too.
MR. THOMPSON: Well, the -- the Bostick test
presupposes a reasonable, innocent person. In this
particular case, Mr. -- Mr. Brown's consent was
unambiguous. He opened his coat. He -- in response to
the question, he said, sure. He opened his coat. He took
out a cell phone.
QUESTION: But Drayton said nothing throughout
the whole encounter.
MR. THOMPSON: Drayton's -- Drayton's consent,
as the district court found, was clear and unambiguous.
He raised his hands off of his thighs, Your Honor. There
was nothing that Officer Lang said to Mr. -- or said to
Mr. Drayton or had said to Mr. Brown that would have
indicated that Mr. Drayton could not have terminated the
questioning or that he could have refused consent.
And as this Court noted -- as this Court noted
in Bostick, the fact that a lawbreaker knows that the
search is going to uncover contraband or is -- knows that
the search is going to uncover drugs does not make the
consent involuntary.
QUESTION: Well, it doesn't make it involuntary,
but it -- it does suggest perhaps that there is an
ambiguity here as -- as against your claim that there was
none in Brown's consent because -- and correct me if I'm
wrong on the facts, but I -- I think the first request to
Brown was -- or maybe to the two of them together -- can I
look at your -- your luggage, your bag, whatever they had
pointed to, and they said, sure. And I presume they said
sure because they knew there was nothing in it that was
going to be incriminating. So, the officer looked in the
-- in the luggage and he found nothing.
Then he turned to Brown and said, mind if I do a
pat-down, or whatever the phrase was. Well, that's the
search that's in question here, and I would have thought
that at that point Brown was in the situation in which the
reasonable citizen would have thought I'm damned if I do
and I'm damned if I don't. If he pats me down and he's --
he's thorough about it, he's going to find the -- the
drugs. If I say you can't pat me down, having just given
permission to him to -- to look in the -- in the bag, he's
going to know that there must be something on me that
wasn't on the bag. And -- and, therefore, it seems to me
that the -- that Brown at that point was by no means in a
position in which he had a kind of free choice to say yes
or no. So, it sounds to me as though it is ambiguous.
Have I got the facts wrong?
MR. THOMPSON: You have the facts, but your
conclusion, Your Honor, I would differ with because in --
in the situation both individuals pointed to the bag.
There was nothing in Officer Lang's request to Mr. Brown
that would -- that would -- that -- that would send or
communicate to Mr. Brown that he could not have refused
the request. There was nothing in Officer Lang's question
that would indicate to Mr. Brown that he could not have
otherwise terminated the questioning. Why some of the --
QUESTION: Well, you don't agree, I hope, with
the -- with the proposition that there would be no reason
to decline the pat-down search except the reason that he
had something incriminating on him. I mean, the mere fact
that you've -- you've acceded to the luggage search, which
is a much less intrusive search, does not show that --
that you have something to hide when you -- when you
decline to -- to have a pat-down. Don't -- don't you
agree that a consent to a luggage search is a lot less
difficult to obtain than consent to a pat-down?
MR. THOMPSON: The nature -- the nature of the
search is not necessary to the Bostick inquiry.
QUESTION: Well, I think you're -- I think
you're missing my point. Justice Souter was suggesting
that having acceded to the luggage search, the only
plausible reason for objecting to the pat-down would be
that I have something on me that is incriminating. And I
-- I acceded to the luggage search because I knew there
was nothing incriminating. But don't you think that an
innocent citizen could agree to a -- a policeman's search
of luggage but not agree to a pat-down?
MR. THOMPSON: Absolutely, Your Honor.
QUESTION: And -- and, of course, I would
agree --
QUESTION: You know, let's be reasonable here.
QUESTION: Yes. But don't -- don't you think
the most probable inference is the inference I gave you?
MR. THOMPSON: No, Your Honor. You have --
again, you have to understand this Court's holding in
Bostick and that is the --
QUESTION: The holding in Bostick, if I remember
it, was that the Florida Supreme Court was wrong in
adopting a per se rule and left open the question of
whether there was a seizure in that case. Isn't that
right?
MR. THOMPSON: Yes, Your Honor. But in this
particular case, the reasonable person, as this Court
said, presupposes a reasonable, innocent person.
Lawbreakers sometimes agree to be -- agree to be searched,
knowing that the drugs are in their luggage or on their
person, for a number of reasons, sometimes as -- as these
gentlemen did. They want to be cooperative. They do not
want to send some kind of message that they indeed have
the items in question. They want to appear innocent.
They do this for any number of reasons, hoping that the
police officer will not search them and go away.
QUESTION: Mr. Thompson, you --
MR. THOMPSON: It has nothing to do with --
QUESTION: -- you were about to say --
MR. THOMPSON: -- compulsion. Excuse me.
QUESTION: -- that the police -- you were about
to say when the police go over the line. I think you said
here they did nothing that would imply that consent or
that -- that the search was required of the citizen. What
-- can -- can you give a description of when the police
would step over the line? Is it -- must the police give
words of command, get up, I want to search you? Is that
-- does it take that?
MR. THOMPSON: The -- if -- if the police would
communicate to the citizen somehow that the citizen's
response was compelled. For example, in -- in Bostick
this Court noted that pointing guns, drawn guns would lead
to that -- that kind of compulsion or coercion. For
example, if the police used threatening language. If the
police communicated to the reasonable person that he or
she could not refuse the request for consent or could not
otherwise terminate the questioning.
QUESTION: And that explains Miranda, of course,
to the extent anything explains it.
(Laughter.)
QUESTION: That -- that was a custodial
interrogation, wasn't it?
MR. THOMPSON: Yes, Your Honor.
QUESTION: And the -- the physical custody would
have had that -- that effect of -- of causing the person
to believe that he had no choice.
MR. THOMPSON: Absolutely. Here you have
unstructured, rapidly developing police-citizen
encounters, and what is important here --
QUESTION: And you have a request and a
response. And the response is that there is no objection
to the search. And it seems to me that that is an
objective consideration of the highest importance.
MR. THOMPSON: That's correct, Your Honor.
QUESTION: May I ask, Mr. Thompson, do you
regard this primarily as a seizure case or a search case?
MR. THOMPSON: This is a seizure case, Your
Honor. That's the -- the court below decided this case
under the -- under the Bostick test. Both parties before
the Eleventh Circuit urged the Bostick test, and this is
-- I would submit that this is a seizure case.
QUESTION: Do you think it always would follow
if you concluded that there was no seizure, that there was
necessarily voluntary consent to the search?
MR. THOMPSON: If there was no seizure?
QUESTION: Right.
MR. THOMPSON: It -- in this Court's test in
Bostick, the Court merged the voluntary issue and the
voluntariness in with the -- in with the Bostick seizure
analysis. So, I would say that -- that the two are merged
together and are related.
QUESTION: It doesn't seem to me that
analytically they have to be. It seems to me you could
have a case in which you could -- the officer could say to
the man, you're perfectly free to get off the bus anytime
you want to, but I'd like to -- to search you first, and
may I do so? And then the question would be whether the
search was voluntary even if there had been no seizure.
It seems to me that could be a scenario that would make
sense.
MR. THOMPSON: It's -- it's hard to -- in the
context of these bus -- police-citizen encounters on a
bus, it's hard to really see the distinction between the
voluntariness test and the seizure test.
QUESTION: But it does seem to me the passenger
might have two different thoughts. One, I better not get
off the bus. I want to get to Columbus or Cleveland or
wherever we're going. So, I -- that -- maybe I can get
off the bus, but it just doesn't make any sense. But
that's one inquiry. The second inquiry is, do I want to
let this fellow search me? It seems to me they are really
two separate questions.
MR. THOMPSON: I don't know, Your Honor, but I
-- I would posit here that we do not really need in this
particular case to -- to understand the full extent of the
scope of the voluntariness test because the court below
clearly decided this case under Bostick and as a seizure
case.
QUESTION: A seizure of the person or seizure of
the contraband?
MR. THOMPSON: The person, Your Honor.
QUESTION: If we were writing on a blank slate
and other cases weren't there, what would be the
Department's objections to a rule of law that said when
you're on a bus, only 11 inches of an aisle, three people
get on. One is sitting in the back looking over the
crowd. The other two systematically work their way to the
front. What would be the objection to saying, policeman,
of course, you can ask citizens to cooperate? Certainly
that's a very desirable thing. But in those closed,
cramped quarters where you have three, just say you don't
have to answer if you don't want to. You don't have to be
searched if you don't want to, making clear that you're
eliciting voluntary cooperation and nobody is under
compulsion. What would be the objection to that?
MR. THOMPSON: Well, as this Court noted in
Bostick, Your Honor, just because the police-citizen
encounter happens on a bus, there's no reason to establish
some kind of per se rule.
QUESTION: Well, I assume Congress could enact a
statute like that, couldn't it, for Federal officers?
Couldn't Congress prescribe that whenever Federal drug
agents enter a bus, they -- and to conduct a -- a search,
they shall make such a statement?
MR. THOMPSON: I -- I don't know --
QUESTION: You would have no problem with
Congress doing that, would you?
MR. THOMPSON: I would -- I would say, Your
Honor, here that --
QUESTION: It might. It might be bad policy.
And my question was are there policy objections to -- I'm
not saying what the constitutional rule is. I understand
those arguments. I'm just, for my own benefit, trying to
find out if that would cause a practical problem or not.
MR. THOMPSON: I can think of three reasons.
Your Honor, this Court has consistently held that we --
you do not want to saddle law enforcement officers with
some kind of bright line test in Fourth Amendment cases.
That's very important here when I would submit that
Bostick is an appropriate vehicle to determine the
validity of consent.
In these particular cases, it's -- it's very
difficult. You have an unstructured, rapidly evolving and
developing situation, and warnings would not be --
QUESTION: And one of the difficulties with --
with a warning is, you know, Miranda was supposed to be a
bright line test where, you know, we didn't have to argue
about anything. Well, we had at least 60 or 70 cases here
deciding whether somebody introduced -- was interrogating
and that sort of thing. So, if you have some sort of a
requirement like that, it's just another layer of
litigation.
MR. THOMPSON: Absolutely, Your Honor, and I
would direct the Court's attention to a case that was
cited in the Government's brief, United States v.
Stephens, where there was some appropriate warning, and
the court -- the Ninth Circuit in that particular case
said that the warning confused the passengers, intimidated
the passengers. But --
QUESTION: Well, I assume the other policy
objection is, the underlying premise of Justice Breyer's
suggestion is the Government has some obligation to teach
everybody about their rights. And that's a -- that's a
sweeping proposition.
MR. THOMPSON: I would agree.
QUESTION: Especially when it's not required by
the Constitution.
MR. THOMPSON: I would agree, Justice --
QUESTION: May I ask you what significance, if
any -- I don't know if it's significant or not -- do you
attach to the fact that, as I understand it from the court
of appeals opinion, that this officer had made similar
requests several hundred times and only five or six people
had ever said no? Is that relevant at all?
MR. THOMPSON: It is not relevant, Your Honor.
Some people did say no. Most people --
QUESTION: You don't think that suggests that
perhaps most people thought they had an obligation to
answer?
MR. THOMPSON: Well, Your Honor, as this Court
-- as this Court held in Delgado, simply because most
citizens cooperate and most citizens agree with the
officer's request, that's no indication that the consent
at issue is involuntary.
If there are no further questions, I would like
to reserve the remainder of my time.
QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Thompson.
Ms. Spivey, we'll hear from you.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GWENDOLYN SPIVEY
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MS. SPIVEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This Court should reaffirm Bostick in its
entirety. We are not arguing that advice should be
required. Rather, we think that Bostick got it entirely
right with the language that advice is a factor
particularly worth noting. If Bostick is revised, we
would ask the Court to remand to the court of appeals, as
it did in Bostick, so that it can reconsider.
I believe the key to this test -- and I don't
mean to sound presumptuous. Having thought long and hard,
I think the key is that the Eleventh Circuit really was
trying to give voice to the seizure or -- and the consent
test, as set out in Bostick. In Bostick at U.S. 437, the
Court wrote -- it focused on what the police conduct --
conduct would have communicated to a reasonable person.
And in Washington at 1357 and Guapi at 1395,
what the Eleventh Circuit focused on -- it said, it is
enough that the circumstances themselves would indicate
that the search can proceed only if consent is given. So,
I believe that the Eleventh Circuit parallels Bostick's
use of the word -- that focused on what does it
communicate with their use of the word indicate. And
indicate necessarily refers back to -- it expressly refers
back to the circumstances, which is the totality.
And while courts tend to focus most commonly on
whether or not advice was given or not given, I think
there are any number of acts or omissions that focus on
the police conduct --
QUESTION: That -- that I think is true, but
could -- if their point is that if -- if you were to take
your case, this case before us, and say under the present
law and the test that you're enunciating, that you do have
to tell the passengers what I suggested earlier -- tell
them they don't have to answer or respond -- well, then
you'd have to in every case. So, why don't you give me an
example of one where they wouldn't.
MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir. I would -- I would posit
a -- a -- I could posit a scenario, and the best one I
thought of is that that we've all flown on airplanes and
--
QUESTION: No. On a bus. Could you possibly do
-- because actually oddly enough Bostick is about buses.
MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir.
QUESTION: And -- and there -- it's about buses.
MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir.
QUESTION: And the buses are stopped and
somebody comes on. All right. So, what is -- can you
think of any example in those circumstances where they
wouldn't have to make that announcement?
MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir. In a -- besides
referring to the specific factors here and suggesting that
the police conduct ratchet down the coerciveness of any
factor, I would suggest that if the police did not delay
the -- the departure of the bus, did not engage in bag-
matching, and did not do any more than a -- a flight
attendant does standing in the aisle and talking
individually to the passenger and does not use language
that would communicate to a reasonable, innocent person
that cooperation is required -- for example, using
language that it's voluntary. They could use language
that it's voluntary. They could say, are you willing,
with your permission.
Or specifically in this case, relating to Mr.
Drayton, they could engage in acts. For example, when you
ask --
QUESTION: Didn't they use language like that in
this case? Did they say, you know, open your coat, I want
to pat you down?
MS. SPIVEY: They used --
QUESTION: Didn't they make it clear that they
were asking permission which suggests that the person has
the ability to deny permission?
MS. SPIVEY: Respectfully, Justice Scalia, I
don't believe so. I think it was very clear that what
they were asking for was cooperation.
QUESTION: What -- what words did they use in --
in particular?
MS. SPIVEY: They immediately approached each
individual passenger --
QUESTION: Right.
MS. SPIVEY: -- and said, I'm Officer so and so.
I'm doing this.
QUESTION: Right.
MS. SPIVEY: Do you have a bag on the bus?
QUESTION: Yes.
MS. SPIVEY: I believe that point right there
denied the Bostick right to refuse to engage with the
officer.
QUESTION: Wait. And -- and that's all they
asked, and when the person said yes, they immediately
searched the bag?
QUESTION: No.
MS. SPIVEY: No.
QUESTION: Surely, surely they required more.
MS. SPIVEY: Then they asked another question.
QUESTION: What was the other question that they
asked?
QUESTION: On page 4 of the Government's
brief --
MS. SPIVEY: Do you mind --
QUESTION: -- it says, do you mind if I check
it?
MS. SPIVEY: Do you mind if I check it?
QUESTION: Does -- does that not suggest exactly
what you want them to suggest, that the person has the
ability to withhold that consent?
MS. SPIVEY: No, Justice Scalia. In Schneckloth
at U.S. 229, this Court referred to the, quote, subtly
coercive police questions. And I think one really does
have to look at the nuances of the questions and how a
reasonable, innocent person would take them.
QUESTION: Well, what is the nuance of a
question, do you mind if I inspect it?
MS. SPIVEY: Because I think no matter how a
reasonable, innocent person answers it, Mr. Chief Justice,
the police can construe it as consent. If they say --
QUESTION: But -- well, is there any doubt that
this person answered it in a way that indicated consent?
MS. SPIVEY: Mr. Chief Justice, I believe there
is doubt because I believe -- not as to the bag, but as to
the question, do you mind if I check your person. I do
believe there's definitely doubt because of the indirect
question and also because of his --
QUESTION: Well, what's -- what's indirect? Do
you mind if I check your person?
MS. SPIVEY: Because no matter whether you
answer it yes or no, it's not may I check your person. If
you say no, it means no. Yes means yes. But if you say,
do you mind if I, if the person says yes --
QUESTION: So, it -- it turns on that sort of a
subtle distinction?
MS. SPIVEY: I think it can, Your Honor. I
think it's one factor --
QUESTION: But if we do, then don't we have to
follow the district court? I mean, the district court
there concluded in the facts that everything was
cooperative, there was nothing coercive, there was nothing
confrontational.
MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir.
QUESTION: And he heard the officer and he heard
the tone of voice. So, how -- how could we possibly get
around that?
MS. SPIVEY: Well, Justice Breyer, the district
court applied the wrong test. It applied the free-to-
leave test. That -- that's at the joint appendix at 132,
and that's specifically what this Court rejected in
Bostick the Florida Supreme Court had done.
He also -- I disagree with the Government's
representation that he said that Mr. Drayton was clear or
unambiguous. He did not address -- he did not make any
factual findings as to the actual encounter. And --
QUESTION: The freedom-to-leave test actually is
-- is more beneficial for your client. Everybody knows
you're not free to leave the bus. You'll miss the bus.
mean, that's -- that's what we said in Bostick. So, it
seems to me that the district court applied a higher
standard than -- than was necessary and still found
voluntary search.
MS. SPIVEY: Well, Justice Kennedy, from my
perspective, the important point is that he applied the
wrong test, the test this Court has rejected.
And also, he made two other legal --
QUESTION: Do you want us to reverse because
there was a test that's too favorable to your client? I
don't understand that.
MS. SPIVEY: No. I -- I have no -- I have no
objection with the Bostick test, either the test for
seizure at U.S. 437 or the test for consent at U.S. 438.
I think that the court of appeals then applied the correct
test and overturned the -- the legal conclusion which the
district court reached.
The district court said that -- he made a global
conclusion. He said, quote, their consent leads me to
believe there was no violation. Well, I think that, with
all respect, is a tautology. Just because they consent,
it doesn't mean there's no violation. And I think that --
he said --
QUESTION: Surely he meant their consent in
those circumstances. Didn't he recite in the opinion all
of the circumstances involved?
MS. SPIVEY: No, Your Honor.
QUESTION: Don't you think it's a little unfair
to -- to read that after -- after he describes the whole
situation as simply saying, well, since they consented, it
must be okay?
MS. SPIVEY: Justice Scalia --
QUESTION: I mean, you can say, you know, I'm
going to torture you if you don't let me look at it.
Okay, okay, okay, look at it.
(Laughter.)
QUESTION: Surely nobody is going to say his
consent shows that it was voluntary.
MS. SPIVEY: No, Justice Scalia, I don't agree
with the first part of the question because the district
court made no findings whatsoever regarding the specifics
of the actual encounter or exchange between the -- the
defendants and the -- or the police officers and
individual passengers.
QUESTION: Did you ask for findings -- did you
ask for findings that were that detailed?
MS. SPIVEY: The trial -- neither trial counsel
for the Government nor the defense did, Your Honor.
But the district court then said there's nothing
coercive about this encounter, and I believe that's an
ultimate legal conclusion which, when the court of appeals
applied the correct test from Bostick, reached the correct
result.
QUESTION: As far as Drayton is concerned,
there's nothing in the record other than that he lifted
his hands from his lap. Is there -- he didn't utter any
words, and so his consent rides on that gesture and what
it meant.
MS. SPIVEY: Yes. Yes, Justice Ginsburg, that
is correct. And I think it's clear under Schneckloth and
Bumper that mere acquiescence -- and that was -- is not
sufficient. And that's why I was saying I think that the
police conduct can be either acts or -- and/or omissions.
And I think the omission here or the act here was simply
not waiting on an answer.
QUESTION: Excuse me. When -- when you're asked
a question, do you mind if I conduct a pat-down, and you
raise up your arms like that, what -- what does that
naturally convey?
MS. SPIVEY: I think that's a classic example,
Your Honor -- after you've just watched the other
passenger arrested and hauled across the top of you,
that's a classic example of mere acquiescence to a show of
authority.
QUESTION: Mere acquiescence.
QUESTION: That's apparently the opposite --
QUESTION: Acquiescence would be just to sit
there, it seems to me.
QUESTION: I mean, isn't that the opposite of
what the district court thought --
MS. SPIVEY: The district --
QUESTION: -- who saw all this? I mean, the
district court heard the witnesses. He heard the tone of
voice. I mean, I don't see how to get very far with this
notion of the question.
What about the other two things? Was this a
case where the passengers knew that the bags were being
matched?
MS. SPIVEY: Justice Breyer, in response to your
first question, the district court never addressed the
specifics of Mr. Drayton's nonverbal response --
QUESTION: All right. I -- I see it.
What about -- but was this a case where the --
where -- was this a case where the passengers knew that
the bags were being matched?
MS. SPIVEY: I think it was very clear. I don't
think a reasonable person sitting in that bus, unless they
were deaf, could not have known that the bags -- they were
asking every person, do you -- as the first question. Do
you have a bag? If they did, may I check it. In fact,
Officer Lang --
QUESTION: Well, I don't know what you meant
then by bags being matched. I thought you meant that they
went outside or did something. I --
MS. SPIVEY: No, Your Honor. The carry-on
luggage, which this Court, you know, focused on in Bond,
the privacy of that carry-on luggage. I believe that the
Government -- the officer used that as a means of
basically forcing an encounter by asking a person, do you
have a bag.
And Stephens pointed out the Hobson's choice
that a passenger faces. They don't -- it -- it denies
their right to ignore the officer because if they say
nothing, the bag is construed as abandoned. You have to
respond to the officer. So, I think Bostick gives you the
right to ignore --
QUESTION: An American citizen has to protect
his rights once in a while. That's -- that's a very bad
thing?
MS. SPIVEY: I think the Bostick, Justice
Kennedy, gave citizens, bus passengers, the right to
ignore officers.
QUESTION: Of course. The right to say,
officer, don't bother me.
MS. SPIVEY: But that's not ignoring them, Your
Honor. That's having to engage with them, and I think
that's part of the technique that's used, is getting a
person -- if you can get them to --
QUESTION: Well, I -- I don't read Bostick that
way.
Now, this -- this argument that because the
first person is arrested, the second person feels coerced,
that seems to me it goes the other way around. The second
person now knows the consequences of giving consent.
Under your theory, the first person is arrested and the
second person says, oh, I -- I'd like to be arrested too.
Come and search me.
(Laughter.)
MS. SPIVEY: I don't think --
QUESTION: That -- that doesn't make sense.
MS. SPIVEY: I don't think a reasonable,
innocent person would take what happened to -- to a
passenger sitting next to him as anything but a classic
example of a show of authority.
In -- in response to your question, Justice
Kennedy, to the Government earlier, I think that putting
the burden on the citizen shifts the -- the burden is on
the Government in every case to prove that the encounter
is consensual and that any consent given is voluntary and
is uncoerced. And I think --
QUESTION: The question is whether or not the
Government also has the burden to educate citizens as to
their rights in every encounter, whether or not there
isn't some obligation on the part of the citizen to know
and to exercise his rights or her rights.
MS. SPIVEY: Justice Kennedy, I believe that
that ignores the demographic realities of the reasonable
bus passenger. The Government acknowledged below that
most bus passengers are economically disadvantaged, and
they don't know who their Congressman is or the Governor.
They don't -- that was not acknowledged below. I don't
mean --
QUESTION: So, you want people to travel on
buses where people might have weapons and drugs and can't
be searched. You think that's better for passengers.
MS. SPIVEY: Certainly not, Your Honor.
Certainly not, but I think there is a limit to the
imposition on millions of innocent people for the purpose
of ferreting out ordinary criminal wrongdoing. And to the
extent that the -- the departure of this bus was delayed,
I think this case is right on point with the Edmund case.
To the extent they delayed the forward movement of that
bus, I believe every passenger on it was seized even
though I disagree that the court below addressed the
seizure issue.
QUESTION: Ms. Spivey, is there anything in the
record that -- that indicates whether the police knew that
these two people were traveling together?
MS. SPIVEY: They knew that they were seated
next to each other in a seat. There was no testimony
whatsoever -- there was testimony that the officer had
seen the respondents in -- depending on which transcript
we're looking at. There is testimony in the joint
appendix that the officer had seen them boarding the bus,
and that is at J.A. 105. In response to questioning by
the court, he indicated he had seen them boarding the bus,
but there was no testimony in this record that he ever saw
them together before he saw them seated next to each other
in the seat.
And the other point I wanted to make, going to
that question, if I might, is that --
QUESTION: Well, the -- he did associate the two
of them because of the fact that they were both wearing
heavy, baggy clothes, although the weather wasn't that
cold in Tallahassee at the time.
MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir. But he never said that
they were traveling together.
QUESTION: Okay, but they're sitting next to
each other, and unlike the other passengers in the bus,
they're all -- they're both wearing heavy, baggy clothes.
I'm not sure that -- that the major result of
the first -- of the first seizure wouldn't really have
been to give the police probable cause anyway to -- to
search the second passenger, even without his consent.
MS. SPIVEY: Well --
QUESTION: You see -- you see two guys dressed
extravagantly sitting next to each other. You search the
first one and find drugs on him. You think you're not
going to search the second?
MS. SPIVEY: I think that if they had looked at
the -- at the passengers' tickets, they would have had
reasonable suspicion, but I do not think there are any
facts in this case -- and the police officer -- they're
the best ones to judge -- and the prosecutor at trial all
agreed there was no reasonable suspicion here.
QUESTION: I would have searched the second one.
I would have thought I had probable cause having two guys
both dressed in baggy clothes in warm weather, I find
drugs on the first, they're sitting next to each other.
think I would have probable cause to search the second.
MS. SPIVEY: Yes, Justice Scalia, I think the
record adequately points out reasons why all of those
factors could have been -- could have been determined to
be totally innocent. The innocent people could have been
doing that same thing. Baggy pants are very popular these
days. One can look anywhere and see them. There were
reasons why they would have had their coats on.
QUESTION: Not in Tallahassee in the summertime.
MS. SPIVEY: It was February 4th, 1999, Your
Honor, which is not --
QUESTION: You -- you think that the police
should have asked them -- told the people in the bus
you're free to leave. That's basically -- would that make
it all right in your opinion?
MS. SPIVEY: No, Your Honor, because I --
QUESTION: No. What -- what -- is it that the
police in your opinion can't search anyone in the bus?
Period? What -- what is your view on that?
MS. SPIVEY: I -- I don't believe that either.
I think that -- I clearly agree with Bostick that on-bus
searches, consensual --
QUESTION: No, no. I'm trying to -- I'm sorry.
I misspoke. Your -- your view is that they should have
told the passengers explicitly in a strong way you do not
have to cooperate if you don't want to. Is that -- is
that your view?
MS. SPIVEY: My view is that in a case like
this, which is at the margins, where a court of appeals
looks at it and feels that it's so coercive that there are
various acts or omissions that the police can do to
ratchet down the coerciveness of the environment, or they
can choose to counter it, which the most -- the typical
example we see is the giving or -- or withholding of
advice. And certainly that's been determinative in some
of the Court's cases or appears to have been outcome-
determinative. But I think there are other things the
police can do.
QUESTION: So, we -- we should accept the feel,
as you describe it, of the court of appeals in this case?
MS. SPIVEY: Well, Your Honor, I think that was
one of the main -- there were two main points of Arvizu.
One was to reject the divide and conquer approach of the
Government that, well, because this -- this factor didn't
weigh heavily, we shouldn't even look at it.
But the other was that it recognized the
importance of a court of appeals in a totality test,
employing de novo review, to unify precedent and to
provide guidance to district courts --
QUESTION: What -- I'm trying to look at what to
do. I'm -- I'm not -- suppose I think for argument's sake
in many circumstances where policemen come up and question
people, even if they say politely, are you willing to
answer my questions or be searched, the person feels
coerced. But the law still tries to draw a line even if
that's fictional in reality. Very well. What's the right
line? I mean, are buses special? What is it that's
supposed to be done? That's what I'm trying to elicit
from you.
MS. SPIVEY: Justice Breyer, I don't believe I
can give this Court a bright line test because of the
totality of the circumstances. I think it's the nature of
the totality test that, under the right circumstances, any
factor can -- can serve to tip the balance in the right
circumstances. And so, I -- I don't think I can give a
bright -- I don't think a bright line test can be devised
when the totality of the circumstances --
QUESTION: May I ask you a question that I keep
-- perhaps this is sort of strange. But if the police
made it perfectly clear to everyone that they -- in the
bus that there will be no adverse consequences whatsoever
if you refuse to let me search your -- your luggage, why
would anyone let them search? Why --
MS. SPIVEY: Well --
QUESTION: In other words, I want to look
through your luggage. Why would you say yes? If you know
there can be no adverse consequences, it seems to me they
would never be able to search anybody.
MS. SPIVEY: Unless they had an overwhelming
desire to cooperate and have their personal stuff gone
through.
QUESTION: Well, what is the cooperation? We're
going to let you find out that I don't have guns and drugs
in my -- I know I don't have guns and drugs in my luggage.
So, why should -- don't -- don't bother me. I don't want
you to search me. I don't see why anyone would ever
consent if they knew it was totally risk-free.
MS. SPIVEY: I agree, Justice Stevens.
QUESTION: I don't agree. I -- I know it's
risk-free, and I would certainly give my consent. I think
it's a good thing for the police to do.
MS. SPIVEY: Well, Justice Scalia, I would
certainly never consent to them checking my person for
anything. But I'm a lawyer and I know that --
QUESTION: If I was dressed like that, I would.
If I was dressed like that on a hot day, I'd be
probably --
QUESTION: On a hot day in February.
(Laughter.)
QUESTION: I'm -- I'm only using the record,
Chief Justice. The record -- the record says it was
unusually hot.
(Laughter.)
MS. SPIVEY: I would like to address the
Government's argument that there is a per se rule in this
case. And one of the points they make is -- in their
reply brief at 4, they argue that because we have not
identified one case in which the Eleventh Circuit has
ruled in favor of the Government in an on-bus case -- I
have been able to identify three unpublished decisions,
which I'd like to cite to the Court. And at Mr. Souter's
direction, I will lodge them with the Clerk after
argument. They are: the McLean case, which is case number
01-10678, dated July 6th, 2001, after Washington; the
Reese case, 00-11291, dated March 15th, 2001; and the
Garrett case, dated -- case number 97-2202, dated November
19th, 1997.
QUESTION: Does the Eleventh Circuit have any
rule about using its unpublished opinions for any purpose
other than preclusion in a particular case?
MS. SPIVEY: It's considered persuasive
authority but not binding authority.
But my point was simply that if they had -- if
they had a de facto per se rule, then it would be outcome
-- the presence or absence of rights would be outcome --
outcome-determinative in every case. But in those three
cases, which were on-bus searches, there was either no
advice or no mention of it in the opinion. And of course,
these unpublished opinions are very hard to get, but the
Government gave me an incentive to find them.
QUESTION: The -- the briefs make a big deal
about the fact that they didn't announce that everybody on
the bus first -- a general announcement what was going to
happen. I -- I -- it seems to me that if we go down that
road and it'd be like our cases, where one case says they
didn't look at the officer, and the next case said they
didn't look at the -- I -- I just think that's equivocal.
I think you can argue that either way.
And you go on for 15 pages in -- in your brief
about the -- the police chose the -- the locus, the bus
locus, the fact that they were close to the passengers,
which they obviously had to be in the bus, and -- and
talked individually to each passenger, the officer's
appearance and demeanor, they constructively blocked the
aisle, they presented their badges, but they didn't show
the gun.
It -- it seems to me this world you're creating
for us is -- is not strong for the Constitution. It seems
to me a strong world is when officers respect people's
rights and -- and people know what their rights are and --
and assert their rights. I don't want to be searched.
MS. SPIVEY: Well, Justice Kennedy --
QUESTION: I don't want to be searched. Leave
me alone.
MS. SPIVEY: I agree that would be an ideal
world if all our citizens took civics or took law and knew
their rights, but I don't believe they do.
And I think the fact that we go through the
factors is simply a product of the totality test. That's
necessary to look at all the relevant factors in that
totality test. But I don't think there is any defining
point at which one -- a person can say I think it's up to
the court in every case, is this too coercive, does it go
too far?
I would note that in Bostick, Bostick did -- did
set out the seizure test at 437, the consent test at 438.
The one thing it really in my mind didn't really clearly
focus on was the test that the Eleventh Circuit was
looking at. The question they looked at is whether the
circumstances here were so coercive that no reasonable
person could have given a consent that would have been
determined to be voluntary. And I think that's why in the
court's opinion, the court of appeals opinion -- this is
-- excuse me -- footnote 4 at page 6a of the petition to
the appendix. That is why they then used the language --
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's footnote 6 at page 8a. They
then used the language, quoting Bostick, but whether a
reasonable person would have felt free to decline the
officer's request.
And I think that is -- was their attempt to go
to the element of was this -- was this a coercive
environment. It distinguishes it from the seizure test
which focuses on the police conduct and what it would have
communicated and I -- and then the consent test, which is
at 438, which focuses -- under Schneckloth includes a
focus on the personal factors, factors personal to the
defendant. And I think that's why the Court here said
that those factors personal to the defendant were not
determinative because we're looking at a little higher
level of analysis as to whether this environment was so
coercive.
I do agree that in the context of your average
bus case, it's a very short encounter, very brief. The
testimony was that in 15 to 20 minutes, the officer could
engage with two to three people. So, you're looking maybe
5 to 10 minutes per person. And I think that the test --
that the factors relating to seizure and the factors
relating to the -- the consent tend to be conflated, and
so it is sometimes sort of hard to sort out. And a lot of
the factors will apply to both of those tests.
QUESTION: Why -- why is it that the most
immediate expression of the police officers does not
counteract whatever other indications of compulsion might
exist under the circumstances? I mean, if the policeman
comes up and says, you know, lean up against the wall,
spread your legs, I'm going to pat you down, you're under
compulsion. But if he comes up and says, do you mind if I
search your person, you know, I don't care what other --
there's a policeman in the front of the bus. Who cares?
He -- he has made it very clear that he's asking for your
permission. What -- what more need he do than that? Do
you mind if I search your person?
MS. SPIVEY: I believe, Justice Scalia, if the
Court ruled that, it would be a bright line test as
opposed to a totality test. And I think one has to --
when one applies a reasonable person -- reasonable,
innocent person test, one of necessity puts themselves in
the seat of that bus passenger. How do they feel? And
that's why, Justice Breyer, I tried to give the -- the
little example of the airplane because --
QUESTION: My problem, of course, is I think if
you go with an all-facts test, you've got to go with the
district court. He saw it and the court of appeals
didn't. And that's why I've been wondering if maybe
there's something inherently coercive about the bus
environment that suggests a -- a need for a warning. But
you don't agree with that and -- and therefore I'm sort of
stuck. And there we are.
QUESTION: Why -- why don't you agree with that?
I mean, it seemed that was almost the question that I -- I
asked when -- when you were responding to Justice Stevens
and you said, well, ultimately sure, anybody who gets
these warnings, with a teaspoonful of brains, is going to
say no, I -- I'm not going to let you search.
And -- and it seemed to me that maybe the -- the
answer to the problem is there are some situations in
which if you don't give the warning, it does get to the
point of -- or is virtually a -- a coercive situation per
se, and it may be that there's no easy answer in those
circumstances.
If you don't let them know that they have a
right to refuse, there's inherent coercion. If you do let
them know, most people are going to say, no, you can't
search. But you resist that. You -- you don't regard it
as inherently coercive. And I -- I guess I'm not sure why
you -- you resist it. Why isn't it?
MS. SPIVEY: Justice Souter, personally yes, I
do agree with you. I think it is an inherently coercive
environment. But I simply didn't take that position
because I didn't think that was a position that I could --
QUESTION: Sell.
MS. SPIVEY: -- prevail upon.
QUESTION: Sell to the Court?
(Laughter.)
MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir. Yes, sir. I -- I did
not because of it being sort of a bright line.
But I guess my feel about it is that there seems
to be some contradiction between when we talk about in
Miranda, we're talking about a coercive -- we're talking
about someone who's suspected of a crime. There's
probable cause, and so we're going to give them some
warnings. But yet, a reasonable, innocent person,
millions of bus passengers -- they don't get anything.
And there just -- I don't know -- it seems to me something
wrong with that --
QUESTION: Ms. Spivey, is there anything in the
record about what the innocent people actually felt when
the police officers came on the bus?
MS. SPIVEY: There's nothing but the testimony
of the officer as to what he thinks they felt. There is
no testimony of the passengers.
QUESTION: So, we really don't know how the
innocent passengers felt.
MS. SPIVEY: No, sir, we don't. We just have to
try to put ourselves in their shoes and how would we feel.
Not being lawyers --
QUESTION: The only testimony was -- Officer
Lang was the only one. He was one of the three. He was
one of the two questioners. He's the only one who
testified in the district court. Is that right?
MS. SPIVEY: Yes, Justice Ginsburg.
QUESTION: Do you think -- you haven't said
anything about the difference between, say, a bus terminal
or a street where when the police say whatever -- you --
you are in a large space. There is something different
about a bus and -- or the airplane cabin where you -- you
are rather confined compared to being stopped in the
street.
MS. SPIVEY: I think that is the primary point
that goes to Justice Souter's question about why it is
inherently coercive. It sort of goes back to a Royer's
situation where you had a person in a small, enclosed
room. But I personally -- if you're sitting in a seat and
that's why I said if -- if the person like a stewardess
would just stand there and not come right in your face,
but a person gets in your face, you can't move over, you
can't back up, I don't see how you could possibly get out
of the seat without -- even if you wanted to. But that's
not the test.
QUESTION: I thought the testimony showed that
the officer leaned over from the back, not in your face.
MS. SPIVEY: The -- the district court
characterized his style as sort of in your face. He
clearly stood. His testimony was he was standing in the
aisle, but I guess behind -- he didn't say this. This is
how I understand it -- behind the arm -- behind the
armrest so that a person could theoretically get their
legs out. My -- but he was very clearly leaning over 12
to 18 inches from Mr. Drayton's face, holding his badge
up.
QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Spivey.
MS. SPIVEY: Thank you very much.
QUESTION: Mr. Thompson, you have 4 minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LARRY D. THOMPSON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. THOMPSON: Your Honor, I have a couple
points.
There was nothing in -- in the record that would
indicate that the bus was in fact delayed.
On the -- on the consent point, the district
court specifically held that the defendants consented
after hearing the evidence at the -- at the suppression
hearing. And the respondents were not naive individuals
or unable to understand or assert their -- their rights.
Respondent Drayton was 26. He was employed for 6 of the
last 8 years, and he had experience in dealing with
previous drug charges. Respondent Brown was 29 and had
been a -- a corrections officer.
And the point with respect to Justice Breyer's
question. Your Honor, buses, as -- as the Government
pointed out in its reply brief, buses today in today's
environment are vulnerable. They are vulnerable to
specific public safety concerns, and the Government would
submit that bus passengers are entitled to the kind of
efficient, effective, and fair bus interdiction efforts
that are -- that characterize --
QUESTION: Do passengers on the buses go through
the same kind of check that we do on airlines?
MR. THOMPSON: No, they do not, Your Honor.
QUESTION: That's -- that's what I was wondering
because today people might think if you're on a airport
and you don't go through the detector, you don't fly.
Well, they might think that if you don't answer the
questions, you don't go --
MR. THOMPSON: We do not --
QUESTION: -- on the bus. And -- and -- so
maybe there's more need now for something.
MR. THOMPSON: We -- we do not have that
specific kind of program, and certainly that was not the
-- the reason relied upon for the consent in -- in the
record below. But in this particular case, Your Honor,
Officer Lang testified that not only did most of the
passengers that he encountered consent, but of them
appreciated what he was doing. It gave them a sense of
comfort. It made them feel that their bus travel was
safe. And that would be the point that I would like to
make here.
And unless the Court has any further questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.
Thompson.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:07 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
25:1,3 31:13 32:24 33:6 43:1 answers 27:24
47:7 48:14,15,16,17,24 anybody 41:10 47:14 B
anyone 38:25 41:5,18 back 19:24 24:7,8 49:23 50:4,8
appreciated 11:16 52:12 19:14 35:21,24 36:12 52:9
22:8,11,25 31:2 39:3 41:20 argue 21:15 42:14 43:20 between 19:1 31:5 48:15 49:15
44:12 45:24 47:9,11 48:5 arguing 23:12 big 43:13
46:11 47:22 confrontational 28:22
51:10 cited 21:23 Congress 20:13,15,20
10:1 11:14,16,17 12:6 citizen's 16:23 consent 4:3,22 5:6 6:11 12:11,17,23
19:1,5,7,23 20:11,16 24:25 civics 44:13 13:3,7 14:22,23 16:16 17:4 18:7
26:18 29:13,13 33:10 34:9 claim 13:6 21:9 23:1,21 24:3 27:15,25 28:2
36:8,11,22,24 37:12 38:20 classic 32:8,11 35:6 30:2,7,9,12 31:1,20 34:22 35:12
41:3 43:15,22,24 45:25 46:16 clear 9:13,17,20,25 10:23 12:18 20:6 37:17 41:19,22,25 44:23 45:3,16
47:7 48:20,25 49:15,18 51:2 26:4,8 29:8 31:23 33:9 41:2 46:17 46:5 51:3 52:8,11
52:4,13 clearly 4:5 5:11 6:6 9:6 19:15 39:3 consented 30:18 51:4
11:24 12:1,11 15:22,25 17:24,24 coercive 4:8,23 5:23 9:8 27:18 28:21 context 4:10 6:7 8:15,15 18:25 45:24
18:1,4,17 19:13,15,16 21:22 31:13 39:12 44:20 45:2,13,23 47:7 contraband 13:1 19:18
24:15,15,19 25:22 26:1 32:25 47:20 48:2,5,16 49:23 contradiction 48:15
35:11 36:9,9 38:1 39:10,22 coerciveness 7:18 25:11 39:14 contrary 11:6
43:2,8 cold 37:8 controlled 3:23
44:20 45:25 52:9,19,20 Columbus 19:5 convey 32:7
16:23 24:6 25:17 counter 39:15
compulsion 16:13 17:1 20:8 46:10,14 8:24 9:5 10:14,23 12:18,24,24 15:20
21:25 23:20 24:1,4 42:15,25 23:23,24 24:12 25:11 32:1,5 45:15 42:18 44:20 45:5,19 46:21 47:5,5
conducting 9:14 48:10 49:12 50:9 51:4 52:16
18:10 21:22 39:18 45:5 devised 40:23 eliciting 20:7
12:25 14:17 22:14 33:13 G held 3:11 8:17 21:4 22:24 51:4
43:14,23 44:15 51:2 G 3:1 her 35:18
38:11 44:16,17 45:18,18,20 generally 11:19 him 12:8 13:23 14:17 35:6 37:21
gentlemen 16:5 Hobson's 33:24
38:1 getting 34:15 9:9,20 10:24 11:12 12:19 14:6 15:10
52:13 go 8:22 16:9,15 43:16,21 44:15,20 hundred 22:16
gone 8:3 41:12 ignores 3:14 35:20
37:15,15,21 38:7 43:15 51:16 immediate 46:9
40:16 45:14 50:8,16 hauled 12:5 32:10 individually 25:16 43:25
35:5 36:6 38:12,12 46:24 52:10
49:5 language 4:16 17:2 23:14 25:16,19 M
20:4,10 21:1,19 30:9 32:9,15 legitimate 3:12 mention 43:10
48:21 49:6 50:2 legs 46:13 50:15 mere 14:17 31:24 32:11,13
27:16,24 28:3 29:2,18 30:20 let 7:24,24 10:13,13 19:9 30:22 41:4,5 message 16:6
33:2 34:8 35:8,19 38:9 41:15 47:16,23,24 might 6:4 19:4 20:23,23 36:2 37:4
41:20,24 42:8 44:9 46:20 47:1 let's 12:4 15:13 46:10 51:24 52:1
48:4 49:13,22 51:12 52:17 level 45:22 millions 36:6 48:20
52:7 little 30:16 45:21 47:2 moreover 5:24
44:13 locus 43:22,23 move 50:3
19:11 20:18 21:14,15 22:13 long 23:19 much 5:18 14:19 50:19
30:21 33:15,19 35:17,23 41:8 look 5:9 11:25 13:10,23 27:19 30:22 must 13:24 16:19 30:19
42:1 44:7 46:12,15 47:23 30:23 38:14 40:2,7 41:7 43:18,19
48:21 49:4 44:17 N
open 15:21 26:1 perfectly 18:18 41:2
opposite 32:14,17 33:10,12,22 34:16,20,20,22,23,24
15:7 16:11,16 28:21,21 31:12 ordinary 36:7 46:15,19,23,24 48:19 49:24 50:1,3
34:2 49:1 51:1 other 7:3 9:16,22 10:2 11:24 19:21,25 50:14
33:24 36:7 38:10 41:15 44:23 phrase 13:16
10:1,11 11:9,11 parallels 24:4 37:16 38:1,19,25 39:13,20 41:1,23
12:20 13:13 14:8,11 16:9 part 31:3 34:15 35:17 43:22 45:15 46:9 48:25 49:16
22:15 26:15,22 28:24 33:14 particular 9:8 11:13,14 12:11 15:25 policeman 20:1 46:11,16
34:1,3,12 36:19,22 38:1 43:18 19:13 21:10,25 26:11 43:2 52:9 policeman's 15:8
49:2,9 50:8 51:11 52:10 particularly 23:15 policemen 40:9
44:6 46:9 48:25 passenger 3:16 5:5 6:4,8,9,11 7:7,10 20:10
8:11,20 9:2,12,16,22 refers 24:7,7 43:6
11:2,7,24 12:13,15 13:4,17 refuse 4:3 6:11 11:9 17:4 26:21 41:4 ruled 5:13 42:16 46:21
15:1,11,13,14,19,21 16:7 47:24 running 11:6
17:6,9,12,18,23 18:5,9 refused 5:5 12:23 14:10
19:3,17,20 20:13,19,23,24 regard 17:24 48:1 S
22:3,9,12,20 23:5 24:13,25 regarding 31:4 S 2:1 3:1
26:4,10,14,17,19,23 27:1 REHNQUIST 3:3 52:17 saddle 21:5
28:1,5,7,8 reject 39:25 safe 52:14
29:11,22 30:12,16,21 rejected 29:5,20 safety 11:18 51:16
31:3,8,17 32:4,5,13,14,15,17 related 18:14 sake 40:8
33:3,5,12,15 34:5,11,17 relating 25:22 46:4,5 same 38:13 51:21
36:1,14 37:4,5,11,19 relevant 6:22 7:2,17 8:11,25 9:3,4 satisfied 8:9
39:5,21 40:7,9,25,25 22:17,18 44:17 saw 9:10 32:20 36:25 37:1 47:5
42:2,5,7,25 43:13 44:10 relied 52:8 saying 20:1,25 30:18 31:25
46:8 47:3,11,12 48:8,10,23 remainder 23:4 says 27:10 28:13 34:24 42:8 43:17
50:7,18,20 51:13,20,23 remaining 50:21 46:12,14
remand 4:5 23:16 Scalia 26:7 27:16 30:20 31:2 38:9
15:3,6,8 16:9,17,20 some 7:11 11:9 12:6 14:13 16:6 20:12 suggest 9:1 13:5 25:12 27:13,14
18:7,19,21 19:9 20:16 24:3 21:6,18,24 22:5,19 35:17 39:17 suggested 24:17
34:25 37:17,20,22 38:8,25 47:18 48:15,18 suggesting 15:2 25:10
46:15,19 47:16 48:1 somebody 10:9 21:17 25:6 suggestion 7:25 22:5
36:3 38:4 40:11 44:8,10 someone 6:15 48:17 summertime 38:16
50:5 sometimes 16:2,4 46:6 suppression 51:5
48:13 49:23 50:10 surely 27:3,3 30:12,25
41:18 50:4 sounds 14:3 suspected 48:17
32:16 34:21 41:9 43:16 44:4,5 special 40:14 systematically 19:25
specific 25:10 51:16 52:7
19:2,15,17,17 23:21 30:2 25:9 26:3,7,12,15,18,20 27:2,4,9,12 27:20 35:5 48:6
37:15 44:23 45:14 46:4 27:16,23 28:3,10,16,23 29:2,18,25 taken 7:2
48:6 still 29:16 40:12 30:1,2,4 31:15 40:4,18,20,23 44:16
49:6 strange 41:1 testified 11:11,15 49:12 52:10
38:7 49:25 stuck 47:10 tests 46:7
49:24 style 50:10 their 7:21 9:23 10:16,16,19 11:19
19:25 22:6 24:6,14 30:7,12 traveling 36:16 37:10 voice 23:21 28:25 32:22
35:16,23 38:15 41:12 42:13 trial 31:10,10 38:2 voluntariness 8:12 18:12 19:2,14
45:12 49:7 50:14 51:7,7 tried 47:1 voluntary 18:7,11,21 20:7 25:19,20
tries 40:12 29:17 31:1 35:12 45:4
turned 12:7 13:15 wall 46:12
18:5 21:3 22:20 23:13,20 19:10,25 29:21 32:24 36:16 37:5,19 36:1 39:8 41:7,17 44:8,10
25:7 26:8 27:18,23 28:16 38:5 39:24 46:2 49:11 wanted 37:3 50:5
30:3,8,10,16 31:23,25 32:2,8 typical 39:15 warm 38:6
34:3,8,14 35:2,4,9,13 36:3,5 warning 21:14,24 22:1 47:8,19
37:21,23,25 38:8,9,19 39:3,19 U warnings 21:12 47:15 48:19
40:8,19,22,23 41:22 43:19,20 ultimate 31:14 Washington 1:9,16 23:25 42:21
45:4,12,19 46:3,22 47:3 ultimately 47:14 wasn't 7:14 13:25 17:10 37:7
49:14,21 51:24 52:1 unable 51:7 watched 32:9
7:1,13,16,19 8:13 9:4,12,14 uncover 13:1,2 weapon 3:19
10:3,22 11:8 12:9,17 14:5 under 5:1 18:2,2 19:15 20:7 24:15 weapons 36:2
15:10,16,24 16:10,11,13,22 31:23 34:23 40:20 45:17 46:11,13 wearing 37:6,13
18:8,10,24 19:11 underlying 22:4 weather 37:7 38:6
20:9,18,21 21:3,21 22:8,11,18 understand 15:17 19:13 20:25 22:14 weigh 40:2
23:5 50:20,22,24 51:22 52:3,6 29:24 50:13 51:7 well 4:18 6:5,14 8:23 10:7,22 11:4,8
unfair 30:16 12:9 13:4,16 14:14 15:1 20:9,13
33:16 38:5 50:7 unlike 5:21 37:12 44:9 47:14 52:1
49:10 unusually 42:9 26:5,9 31:9 32:25 33:8,11,11 36:16
use 24:5,6 25:16,19,25 26:10 45:2,20 47:13 51:6
46:22 view 10:14 39:1,6,9,10 word 24:5,6
6a 45:6
45:8
42:22 9
42:21 97-2202 42:23
1:5 3:4
46:3
1:13 3:2
36:23
19:23
52:20
50:15
29:4
23:25
23:25
43:21 46:1
42:22
1:10
50:16
42:24
42:24
38:17
46:1
42:21,22
1:10
27:17
2:6
51:8
51:10
2:4
27:7 42:14 45:6 50:20
38:17
23:22 30:2 44:23
30:2 44:23 45:17
