IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
KSR INTERNATIONAL CO., :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 04-1350
TELEFLEX, INC., ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 28, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JAMES W. DABNEY, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioner.
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C., on behalf
Of Respondents
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JAMES W. DABNEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting Petitioner 18
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JAMES W. DABNEY, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioner 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in No. 04-1350, KSR International versus Teleflex,
Incorporated.
Mr. Dabney.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES W. DABNEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. DABNEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case concerns a very broadly worded
patent claim, claim 4 of the Engelgau patent, that the
Solicitor General and the United States Patent and
Trademark Office have both told this Court is invalid
under Section 103 of the Patent Act and was issued in
error. The Federal Circuit's vacatur of summary
judgment in this case is grounded in a judicially
devised test that is fundamentally inconsistent with --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask, if that's the
position of the PTO, why aren't they proceeding to
cancel the patent?
MR. DABNEY: The case is in litigation at
this point, Justice Ginsburg, and in patent litigation
district courts are vested with authority and this
Court is vested with authority to render a judgment of
invalidity under Section 282 of the Patent Act.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the question is, you
say the PTO has recognized that it issued this patent,
that it's an invalid issuance. So why aren't they
curing their own mistakes, never mind what a court is
going to do?
MR. DABNEY: Well, there is the possibility
of director- initiated re-examination of patents as
certainly an administrative remedy that does exist. But
where a case is in pending litigation such as this, the
traditional way that these disputes are resolved is for
a court to apply the law to the facts and render a
judgment on a defense of invalidity which has been
pleaded to the plaintiff's claim of patent infringement
in this case. This issue arises in the context of a
defense pleaded to a claim for patent infringement and
I'm not sure that the Patent Office really could swoop
in and cut off the plaintiff's claim in the manner Your
Honor is suggesting.
The Federal Circuit in this case applied the
approach it's applied in previous cases, which is a
categorical approach. The Federal Circuit says that no
matter what might be the nature of an alleged invention
or improvement, no matter how broad might be a claim
made in an issued patent, no matter how small might be
the difference between a patent claim and prior art, and
no matter how modest might have been the degree of skill
needed to devise subject matter described by a patent
claim, the Federal Circuit says regardless of any or all
of that a court of the United States can never, ever
sustain a defense of invalidity under Section 103 of the
Patent Act except in a very limited and narrowly defined
circumstance.
That circumstance is a record that includes
clear and convincing evidence, that yields a jury
verdict or specific finding showing what the Federal
Circuit calls a teaching, suggestion, or motivation to
combine prior art teachings in the particular manner
claimed by the patent at issue. The decision in this
case treats Section 103 not, as this Court has said, as
a codification of a condition for patentability whose
benchmark is skill and ingenuity. The decision in this
case treats section 1 as implementing a supposed
entitlement to patent protection that a court --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're talking about in
this case.
MR. DABNEY: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We're talking about what
the law should be. Would you make, be making the same
argument if we were looking at the most recent decisions
of the Federal Circuit, the ones that they issued within
the year, and each as I remember they held that the
patent was obvious and therefore invalid? Suppose we
were dealing in what was, the cases were, what were
they, Kahn, Alpha, and Diestar?
MR. DABNEY: Your Honor, what the Federal
Circuit has done in recent times has been after a
certiorari was granted in this case to erect a series of
escape devices from what is otherwise a categorical test
that must be imposed in all cases. As a practical
matter the Federal Circuit still characterizes as an
issue of fact for determination by a jury the presence
or absence of teaching, suggestion, or motivation, and
so these seemingly remedial steps that have been taken
by the Federal Circuit do not materially affect the
problem that's praised by this case, which is the well
nigh impossibility nowadays of being able to have an
efficient, inexpensive, quick and predictable
determination of whether claimed subject matter meets
the statutory standard.
JUSTICE ALITO: But what is the difference
between asking whether something is implicit in the, in
the prior art and simply asking whether it would have
been obvious to a person of ordinary skill in the art?
MR. DABNEY: The statute and this Court's
precedents make the benchmark of patentability skill,
what degree of skill is needed to devise subject matter
in respect to an objectively defined problem, objective
looking at the claim and looking at the prior art? What
the Federal Circuit is talking about now is an inquiry
into motivation, not skill. Those two are very
different concepts. There is not a word in this Court's
precedents that says that whether a patent should be
granted or not depends on whether a hypothetical person
had hypothetical motivation to do what everybody knows
he could do.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, the
reason that the Federal Circuit has devised this
additional test or gloss on Graham is that they say
obviousness is, it's deceptive in hindsight. In
hindsight everybody says, I could have thought of that;
and that you need -- if you don't have the sort of
constraint that their test imposes, it's going to be too
easy to say that everything was obvious.
MR. DABNEY: Well, the Court, Mr. Chief
Justice, the Court needs to be very clear what is meant
by the term "hindsight." If by hindsight is meant
looking at what's claimed now, the subject matter sought
to be patented, and comparing that to the prior art, to
call that analytical process improper hindsight is to
make a frontal assault on the statute itself. If by
hindsight means to posit a desired result, a clay
doorknob, and to ask whether more skill and ingenuity
than were required by ordinary skill in the art was
needed to do that, to say that that constitutes improper
hindsight is to make a frontal assault on the entire
body of this Court's precedents construing section 103
and its common law predecessors.
With regard to the kind of bias Your Honor
is talking about, this Court's precedents provide a
wealth of mechanisms for protecting against that,
including the statement towards the end of the Graham
opinion, which is the only source of the word
"hindsight" that I've seen cited in the amici brief,
which was a discussion of the secondary consideration.
So that in a case like Goodyear against Rayovac there's
an excellent case where the claimed subject matter seems
so simple in hindsight. This was a case decided by this
Court in 1944. A leakproof battery that had been a
problem that had defied solution for years and there was
all kinds of motivation to solve it, and the fact that
it was not solved was considered important by this Court
in sustaining the validity of the patent in that case,
which claimed nothing more than a sheet metal sheath
wrapped around the electrodes and materials generated in
the battery.
JUSTICE BREYER: I can understand, I think,
what a teaching is. I take it a teaching is you put all
the prior art -- that's what I guess that's what Judge
Rich explained, which I thought was very enlightening to
me in I can't remember the name of the case, Wigmore,
Winsmore --
MR. DABNEY: Winslow.
JUSTICE BREYER: Winslow. You put it all
around the room. All right, we've got it all around the
room, and I begin to look at it and if I see over that
it somehow teaches me to combine these two things, if it
says, Breyer, combine this and that, that's a teaching
and then it's obvious. Now, maybe it doesn't have the
teaching, it just has the suggestion. Maybe it says, we
suggest you combine this or that; okay, then it's
obvious. But I don't understand, though I've read it
about 15 or 20 times now, it though I've read it about
15 or 20 times now, I just don't understand what is
meant by the term "motivation."
MR. DABNEY: Well, the best I think anybody
could do would be to look at the opinion in this case
and try to figure that out.
JUSTICE BREYER: I tried. You've read a lot
of cases. You're a patent lawyer, and so what is the
understanding as best you have it of what is just meant
by the term "motivation"? To be more specific, if they
mean motivated to go look to the prior art, well,
anybody would want to look in the prior art. If I want
to invent something I'll look anywhere. I'll look to
the prior art. I'll look to the Library of Congress.
I'll look to my cousin. I mean, I'll look wherever I
can find it. So they can't mean that, and if they don't
mean that what do they mean?
MR. DABNEY: Well, in this case what the
respondents is Mr. Engelgau would have had no motivation
to look to the Asano-designed pedal because he was
trying to meet the requirements of Fort Motor Company
and Asano would not have met those requirements and
therefore Mr. Engelgau would have had no motivation to
start with Asano.
JUSTICE BREYER: Say that again? You
wouldn't have a motivation to look to the prior art to
find your problem. What's an example where you have a
motivation distinguishing you from everybody else? I
mean, everybody has a motivation to look to the prior
art.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You disagree with the
motivation test.
MR. DABNEY: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So perhaps you're not the
--
JUSTICE BREYER: Right person to ask.
(Laughter.)
MR. DABNEY: I respectfully suggest --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't have a
motive to answer that question right away.
JUSTICE BREYER: Fine, that's fine.
MR. DABNEY: I believe if you study
carefully this Court's precedence, including Graham
itself and just about every other case this Court has
ever decided, what this Court has said is the measure,
what our society agreed to pay off on is subject matter
that reflects a certain degree of skill. And this Court
has rejected time and time again the notion that someone
who was the first simply to take advantage of the known
capability of technology was entitled to a patent.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, would it be, would
it be inadvisable for us to say the motive test teaches
us something important; it has a valuable place; it's
just not the exclusive test for what's obvious.
MR. DABNEY: Certainly.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or do we have to reject it
all out of -- out of hand?
MR. DABNEY: The -- the presence or absence
of motivation to devise something.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Motivation in this special
sense.
MR. DABNEY: Well, I'm not sure it is in a
special sense. What the Federal Circuit has done is
has, it has attributed controlling significance to what
is in most cases at best a factor, and in fact is
nothing more than a legal argument about the preemptive
effect of prior art. The motivation debate in this case
is all about what is the preemptive legal effect of the
Asano reference. It either invalidates the claim --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But, but, but my question
is does it not serve to show us at least one way in
which there can be obviousness?
MR. DABNEY: I would agree that if there is
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It may not be the
exclusive test. We're -- I'm asking what the test ought
to be.
MR. DABNEY: Well, the test, I mean in this
case, the specific claim at issue in this case is very
analogous to the claim that this Court considered in the
Anderson's-Black Rock case. What we have in this case
is no dispute as to any of the factual inquiries that
have traditionally defined patent validity analysis.
The prior art that we rely on, it's undisputed that it's
prior art and it's in the record. The level of skill is
undisputed. The quantum of difference between the
claimed subject matter and the prior art is undisputed.
The only issue in this case is what legal consequences
follow from that. What question do you ask to decide
whether or not that difference adds up to a patentable
invention?
It's very analogous to what was going on in
the Anderson's-Black Rock case. Anderson's-Black Rock
was a case like this in which someone had invented a
radiant heat burner and the patentee in that case had
seen that there was a market for using that by attaching
it to an asphalt spreader. So the patent claim in that
case was taking someone else's invention, the radiant
heat burner and hanging it on a standard painting
apparatus and using it for its, one of its marketable
purposes.
This Court held in this, in the
Anderson's-Black Rock case that the patentee had not
done anything patentable in that case. All he had done
was take a burner that functioned as a burner, and a
spreader that functioned as a spreader, and the two
components did not affect one another's operation at
all. It was in the parlance of this Court's precedents,
an aggregation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How does -- how does
motivation enter into that analysis in that case? How
would you, how would you have applied the motivation? I
-- like Justice Breyer, I don't understand what the
motivation -- motivation element is. How would you have
applied the --
MR. DABNEY: Well, if the patentee in that
case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He had no particular
motivation to use that earlier patent, did he?
MR. DABNEY: Well, actually in that case
there actually was quite a story. In that case there
was a story that for years and years you'd had this cold
joint problem of laying successive courses of asphalt
blacktop, and -- and this guy actually saw something
that was interesting, that you could use this radiant
heat burner to solve the asphalt blacktop problem. That
was not what he claimed, though.
What he claimed was an apparatus that just
had these two things together, and they didn't interact
with one another any more than if they had been both put
in the same shopping bag. And that's what we have in
this case. We have an adjustable pedal assembly that
does whatever --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. No. No. It took
from 10 years to go from -- I think 10 years from Asano
to Engelgau, so it must have been not all that obvious.
MR. DABNEY: Well, the, on this record, and
even if you take at face value what's said in the
respondent's brief in this case, which is very largely
not based on the record, the story is, from Mr. Engelgau
is, Fort Motor Company had a particular requirement and
Mr. Engelgau sat down to design to it. He to design a
pedal that had would meet Ford's requirements and one
way that he did that was to come up with the kind of
pedal assembly that's shown in the figures of the
patent.
But we are not here talking about the
patentability of the figures of the patent. We are not
talking about the patentability of claims 1, 2 or 3 of
the patent; we are talking about claim 4 in which these
respondents got a little greedy. Claim 4 describes
almost nothing --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you, do you concede --
do you concede that claims 1 through 3 are valid?
MR. DABNEY: We take no position on that.
They're not an issue in the case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If I had asked your
opinion as an expert would you --
(Laughter.)
MR. DABNEY: Well, Your Honor, with respect,
I would have no opinion on that question.
(Laughter.)
MR. DABNEY: I could stand here and make
arguments.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I mean it seems to
me that the whole argument that you're making as to Ford
is that anybody knows you could, you use an electronic
-- you have an electronic throttle, it serves a purpose;
the pedal serves a purpose; put the two together.
MR. DABNEY: Here's the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why doesn't -- don't 1, 2
and 3 do the same thing?
MR. DABNEY: Well, because -- because --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If they're invalid then I
have -- then I'm struggling to find what your test is.
MR. DABNEY: Here's the reason.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't know what your
test is.
MR. DABNEY: Here's the reason. What's
shown in the figures of the Engelgau patent is an
adjustable pedal assembly that has a large bore tube
from which you suspended a pedal arm on a yoke, and it
slides back and forth along the tube. And that's the
way that it provides for adjustment. And in claims 1, 2
and 3 some of that structure is recited. So those
claims would not necessarily be invalid by the Asano
reference because the Asana adjustment mechanism doesn't
use a tube, and doesn't use a yoke; it uses pins and
slots and it provides adjustment by a different
mechanism. The respondents have not asserted claims 1,
2 and 3 in this case because those claims don't describe
anything remotely like the petitioner's pedals. They
limited their claim to claim 4 because only by claiming
this enormous verbal abstraction that is claim 4 can
they make a colorable claim of patent infringement
against the petitioner in this case.
So I would respectfully submit that the
Court does not need to decide whether 1, 2 or 3 would be
valid but the point would be, the question would be what
we did in the Hotchkiss case or in the Anderson's-Black
Rock case or any of these cases. Would it have required
more than ordinary skill to devise that claim structure
with those additional structural limitations to solve
some objectively defined problem, and that hasn't been
litigated or briefed.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Going back to the asphalt
case, were you suggesting that if they had made a claim
for a process patent, that it might have been valid?
MR. DABNEY: Conceivably. If there are no
further questions I'd like to reserve the rest of my
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dabney.
Mr. Hungar.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS G. HUNGAR
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE
SUPPORTING PETITIONER
MR. HUNGAR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court.
Construed as the sole means of proving
obviousness the teaching suggestion motivation test is
contrary to the Patent Act, irreconcilable with this
Court's precedents and bad policy. It asks the wrong
question and in cases like this one, it produces the
wrong answer. It should be rejected and the judgment of
the Court of Appeals should be reversed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you
understand motivation to refer to in that test?
MR. HUNGAR: Well, it's not entirely clear,
Your Honor. I think that it's sometimes difficult to
distinguish, certainly between motivation and
suggestion. One way in which it is used for example, is
if there were some indication in the prior art that
doing something a certain way might save money and then
there would be a motivation to save money, which might
supply the requisite motivation for combining the two
prior art references.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you agree that in that
context it would serve a valid purpose, i.e., can we --
that is to say, can we keep the motivation test and then
supplement it with other, with other means of, other
ways of showing obviousness?
MR. HUNGAR: Yes, Your Honor. We agree that
teaching suggestion and motivation are valid means of
proving obviousness, valid considerations for the Court.
And this Court's precedents are entirely consistent with
that. A number of cases cited by respondent show that
the Court has looked to suggestion as a means to
determining whether a patent is obvious.
The problem with the Federal Circuit's test
is it makes that the exclusive test and precludes
obviousness determinations in the absence of
satisfaction of that test which this Court's precedents
are clearly not consistent with. In fact in Graham
itself, in the Sakraida case, in Dann against Johnston,
lower courts had held patents valid because of a lack of
suggestion. This Court reversed without requiring or
even addressing the question whether there was some
explicit principle that had been proven by the party
challenging the patent, by clear evidence that there was
such a teaching suggestion motivation. It's just
foreign to this Court's precedents as a mandatory
prerequisite for obviousness.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What do you make of the,
sort of the revolution argument that whether it's
contrary or intention with, in fact the, it's been
applied in what is now the Fed Circuit for what, 20
years, more than 20 years I guess. And to tip it over
now is going to produce chaos. What's the answer to
that?
MR. HUNGAR: Well, several things, Your
Honor. First of all, of course, there can be no
legitimate reliance in lower court precedent that's
contrary to Supreme Court precedent, and it was an open
secret in the patent bar that the approach being taken
by the Federal Circuit was inconsistent with cases such
as this Court's Sakraida decision.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I realize there's
been comment on it, but guess I'm -- I'm raising the
question that comes up in the old motto. I mean, if the
error is common enough and long enough, the error
becomes the law. And in effect is that what we are
confronted with here?
MR. HUNGAR: No, Your Honor. I just think
it would be dangerous proposition for this Court to
endorse that line of argumentation but even leaving that
aside, it's not justified here on the facts. And this
patent is a good example. No one is suggesting that
claims 1 through 3 are invalid; the problem here is that
claim 4 sweeps so broadly, so much broader than what the
applicant in fact invented, that it sweeps in obvious
manifestations.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but -- if we see it
your way, are there going to be 100,000 cases filed
tomorrow morning?
MR. HUNGAR: I don't think so, Your Honor.
What we are talking about here are claims at the outer
boundaries of patentability, even under the Federal
Circuit's test. And in those cases there will no doubt
be some claims, such as the claim in this case that can
be resolved at summary judgment by a court, that the
court can simply determine as a matter of law, it's
obvious. Whereas under the Federal Circuit's test it
has to go to a jury and the somewhat unpredictable, at
the least --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Hungar, this is the
problem that I have with your test. I think I
understand you right, now, just to say teaching
suggestion motivation has its place; it's okay; but it
shouldn't be the exclusive test.
MR. HUNGAR: Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And what I understand
your brief to say is that it has to be supplemented with
what you have called, you've labelled "sufficiently
innovative." And then I begin to think well, what's
"sufficiently innovative?" How is a trier supposed to
know if something -- in other words I think what you're
suggesting as a supplement is rather vague.
MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, I think the
"sufficiently innovative" is more of a description
rather than a test; it's a description of what this
Court said in Graham. In Graham itself the Court laid
out the proper analysis which is you need to consider in
detail, not in the more cursory fashion that the Federal
Circuit's test encourages, but in detail the
capabilities of a person of ordinary skill and the
content of the prior art and the differences between the
prior art and the invention, and ascertain -- it's
ultimately a legal judgment informed by those detailed
factual inquiries, whether it is obvious or nonobvious
and entitled to patent protection.
And in addition I would point out that this
Court in Sakraida provided a framework for assessing
patents like this one, where each of the elements is set
forth in the prior art and each of the elements in the
claimed invention is merely performing its already
known, previously known function as set forth in the
prior art.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Hungar, I have a
question that's sort of along the lines of Justice
Ginsburg's. It isn't just the Federal Circuit that has
been applying this test. It's also the Patent Office
and it's been following the Federal Circuit's test for
20 years or so.
What, what is -- assuming that we sweep that
test aside and say it's been incorrect, what happens to
the presumption of validity of, of patents which the
courts have been, have been traditionally applying?
Does it make any sense to presume that patents are valid
which have been issued under an erroneous test for the
last 20 years?
MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, I think that it
would make sense because the statute requires it, and as
a practical matter it shouldn't make any difference,
because the only category of cases in which the result
would change under our test is the category in which as
a matter of law, in light of the factual issues that are
required under Graham, as a matter of law the Court
concludes that the difference between the claimed
invention and the prior art is so trivial that it cannot
be given the protection of a patent. And in those
circumstances the presumption doesn't come into play.
It's a legal determination; the presumption has been
understood to effect the burden of proof, and in the
Federal Circuit's view the measure of the burden of
proof requiring clear and convincing evidence on the
underlying factual considerations, not the ultimate
legal determination.
But one of the problems with the Federal
Circuit's test is that it transforms what this Court
made clear in Graham is supposed to be a legal
determination. Ultimately it transforms it into a jury
question. Because in a case like this one where you
have as conclusory affidavits from respondent's experts
saying "oh, this would not have been obvious." And that
in the Court of Appeals view is enough to create a jury
question and then you then have to role the dice in
front of a jury in each one of these cases, except of
course the many cases in which the challenger can't meet
the teaching suggestion motivation test at all and
simply is unable to challenge the validity of the
patent, notwithstanding this Court's holding in Graham
that it's ultimately a legal determination -- admittedly
one informed by detailed factual inquiries.
Another problem with the Federal Circuit's
test is that it devalues and de-emphasizes the statutory
focus and this Court's focus in Graham on the
capabilities of the person of ordinary skill.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well when you talk
about the statutory focus, your innovation test -- I
mean, do you regard that, is that a legal conclusion of
nonobviousness? Or is it an additional test beyond what
the statute requires?
MR. HUNGAR: We haven't suggested an
innovation test, Your Honor. We were simply attempting
to describe in perhaps imprecise terms the holding of
this Court in Graham, and the holding of this Court in
Graham is that the ultimate inquiry for the court,
obviously suggestion, teaching, motivation, teaching a
way in the prior art, all of these are factual,
subsidiary factual issues that will shed light and a
great deal of light on the ultimate question in each
particular case, but ultimately the question for the
court is whether in light of all those underlying
factual showings the differences between the claimed
invention and the prior art are sufficient to, that they
would have been obvious to a person of ordinary skill in
the art. And that ultimately is a legal determination,
you can refer to that as sufficiently innovative to
justify a patent, but the ultimate question, the
ultimate test is the one set forth in the statute and in
the Graham decision.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In this case, would there
have been anything for a jury under your test?
MR. HUNGAR: No, Your Honor, because in this
case it is perfectly clear that it would have been
obvious for a person of ordinary skill to take the Asano
patent, add the sensor, the electronic sensor in a
manner that that off-the-shelf sensor is designed to be
added, and voila, you have a winning combination.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What about claims 1, 2 and
3?
MR. HUNGAR: I don't know, Your Honor.
Those have not been litigated. Those have additional
limitations that are not present in claim 4 that,
depending on what the prior art might reveal about
those, we have no way of knowing whether they would or
would not be obvious because obviously, that question
has not been litigated. Certainly there is nothing in
the record in this case that would suggest they are
obvious.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the experts?
You said this was obvious and this should have, not have
gotten very far. But there were two experts, were there
not, who made declarations, that had all kinds of
credentials, and they called it elegant, novel and
nonobvious.
MR. HUNGAR: Yes, Your Honor. There are two
problems with that. Number one, the conclusory
assertion that an invention is nonobvious, just like the
assertion that it's obvious from an expert, should have
no weight because of course --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well these, these were
declarants who gave a whole declaration. They didn't
just say that bottom line.
MR. HUNGAR: But again, it's a legal
question. And moreover and more importantly, the
problem with the Court of Appeals analysis, one problem,
and with the experts' analysis, is that they're focusing
on the narrow definition of the quote unquote problem by
looking only at what this particular inventor was trying
to solve, but the scope of the claim is far broader.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Hungar. Mr. Goldstein.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
I think the Court will want to have
available to it the red brief and also this big, which
is the supplemental joint appendix which has some of the
patents in it, and I'm going to quote from both of them.
I think you can't understand what motivation means and
what the whole test that the Federal Circuit is
employing means --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're right about that.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: -- without --
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: -- without starting from the
statute itself. And so I want to start with the
statutory text and use that as the jumping off point
like the Court of Appeals has for the inquiry that it's
asking. It's reproduced at page 21 of the red brief.
And Congress said it's the first blocked quote, that a
patent may not be obtained though the invention is not
identically disclosed or described, as set forth in
Section 102 of this title. Those are the other
requirements for giving a patent. If the differences
between the subject matter sought to be patented and the
prior art are such that the subject matter as a whole
would have been obvious at the time the invention was
made to a person having ordinary skill in the art. So
the term of art here is obvious, and the plain meaning
of obvious, if you understand that the outcome of this
case is obvious or if you think that the, what the
Federal Circuit means by its test is not obvious, is
something that's either apparent or not apparent, and
that's what the Federal Circuit is asking. It says
look, take the invention and see whether or not it was
apparent or not apparent, and what the Federal -- to a
person of ordinary skill at the time of the invention.
And what the Federal Circuit says is, we want to be
inclusive.
The other side takes these words, teaching,
suggestion, motivation, as if they were words of
limitation rather than these words of inclusion. And
what the Federal Circuit has said is what we mean by
teaching a suggestion or a motivation, and it can be
explicit or implicit, is anything that would have made
this invention apparent to a practitioner at the time.
That's what it's after. It wants to know, look, was it
apparent to someone else, a practitioner at the time of
the invention of Engelgau to take Asano and put the
electronic throttle control on pin --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if that's all it
means, why don't they say it?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: They do say that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then what is this
word that confused me a lot, motivation? I found a lot
of enlightenment in Judge Rich's idea of taking all the
relevant art and putting it up around the room in
pictures. And then I thought, well, okay, if that art
teaches me to do what your client did, okay, it doesn't.
Does it suggest it? Not really. Well then, you say
motivated. Where does that get you?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I understand. Can I take
you to their, the Federal Circuit's answer? It's two
pages before the quote that I just gave you, page 19,
there's another blocked quote. The Federal Circuit has
explained what it's talking about when it means a
motivation. They say that they have repeatedly held
that there is an implicit motivation to combine. It
exists not only when a suggestion may be gleaned from
the prior art as a whole, that's a teaching, but when
the improvement is technology independent and the
combination of references results in a product or
process. And these are common motivations. You would
do it because it's more desirable because it's stronger,
cheaper, faster, lighter, smaller, more durable, more
efficient.
JUSTICE BREYER: For who? For me?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: For a practitioner, yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: For me the inventor?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know that, because
otherwise --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No. Justice Breyer, you
don't understand.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's true.
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The question is not -- I can
illustrate it with this case. The question is not do
you want more efficient pedals. If that's the test,
then everything is obvious because we always want more
efficient pedals, Justice, and I'll come back to this.
It's always going to be the case that if your test is
capability, every patent including the first three
claims of this one is going to be obvious, because
you're always capable of assembling a pedal. What it
says, what the Federal Circuit says, is there a
motivation to make this invention? Was there
motivation, and this was the heart of the Federal
Circuit's ruling in this case, their theory is that
Asano renders our patent obvious. And the Federal
Circuit said all right, what's the motivation to take
Asano and take the electronic throttle control and make
it responsive --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the claim goes beyond
that. Your claim goes beyond the Asano combination and
in your brief you, you, you discuss the case as though
your, your limited claim 4 just relates to this
invention that you, you -- nobody would have thought of
using the Asano pedal in the Ford car given the limited
space available and so forth, and therefore, this was
really an invention. But that's not the claim. The
claim is simply combining the, any pedal, the Asano
pedal or any other one with the, with the automatic
electronic sensor.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: In a particular place, yes,
that's correct. Justice Scalia, the reason these
Federal Circuit judges were right notwithstanding your
correct point which is, just to be clear, our invention
is not limited to Asano. Our invention takes any fixed
pivot adjustable pedal and any electronic throttle
control and says combine it in a particular way. The
Federal Circuit's point is their motion rests on Asano.
The other side's theory is, we've got this
invention, Engelgau. As has been pointed out, nobody
did anything like this for 10 years. The other side
comes back and says yes, that it would have been obvious
to somebody who had an Asano to do the same thing
basically. And so the Federal Circuit said okay, show
us. If this isn't going to be hindsight, where we just
give you the invention and you just say oh, I could have
done that, they say give us any evidence that someone
would have done what you say, which is take Asano, it's
their argument, Asano --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But why Asano?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: You'll have to ask them,
Justice Scalia. They filed a motion that it was
obvious.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're the one that's
standing up here making that argument. They're not
doing it.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, the patent
examiner gave us a patent, initially rejected this
patent as obvious, decided that it wasn't after
considering all of these things, a statutory presumption
of validity attached under Section 282. So we have what
we say is clear and convincing evidence, the question
isn't presented here, but whatever. The other side
comes in and tries to knock our patent out. They file a
motion, and the motion rests on a piece of prior art.
And so what the Federal Circuit said is, if we're not
going to knock all of these patents out by hindsight,
all we want to know is one thing and you know, on
remand, they may well be able to prove it. We don't
think they can. But all it's asking for is for the
district court to make a finding that says the other
side is right, that it would have been obvious to take
Asano, which is their only example, and combine it with
electronic throttle control in this way. That is what's
so --
JUSTICE BREYER: You look at that thing, you
think what this genius did, and I don't doubt that he's
a genius, is there are wheels that turn around. And the
wheels turn around to a fixed proportion to when you
make the accelerator go up and down. Now I think since
high school a person has known that if you have three
parts in a machine and they each move in a fixed ratio
one to the other, you can measure the speed of any part
by attaching a device to any other as long as you know
these elementary mathematics. I suppose it wasn't
Mr. Engelgau, it was probably Archimedes that figured
that one out. So he simply looks to something that
moves, and he sticks a sticker on it.
Now to me, I grant you I'm not an expert,
but it looks at about the same level as I have a sensor
on my garage door at the lower hinge for when the car is
coming in and out, and the raccoons are eating it. So I
think of the brainstorm of putting it on the upper
hinge, okay? Now I just think that how could I get a
patent for that, and that -- now that's very naive,
that's very naive. But the point is, I don't see what
we're talking about, and what is supposed to happen with
all these affidavits. And the -- the -- Mr. Asano
himself, I would think at some point when the Ford
company decides to switch to electronic throttles, of
course will have every motivation in the world to do
precisely what your client did, because he can't use
that thing that pulls back and forth anymore. Rather,
he has to get a little electronic cap and attach it to
something that moves in fixed proportion to the
accelerator going up and down. Now those are my whole
reactions when I saw this and I began to think it looks
pretty obvious. What's supposed to go on, I don't
understand it.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Let me answer it in a
few different ways because I want to again specify and
make clear what it is that the Federal Circuit says is
included within teaching, suggestions, motivations.
Then I want to turn to our invention and the affidavits
in the case. The Federal Circuit has said, and I'll
just -- you can come back to it for future reference.
It's recorded at the bottom of page 19 of our brief.
Common sense, common knowledge, common understandings
are all included within teaching, suggestions or
motivations.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It looks like Dystar was
decided by the Federal Circuit after it decided this
case, didn't it?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, it did.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, you have to be
defending what the Federal Circuit did in this case.
And the fact that they say well now, what this means is
really in some other case, that seems to me that's
really irrelevant.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: If I could just clarify,
Dystar --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I think you should
tell us when the case has been decided after, I think it
has much less, much less weight.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, I agree
that you have to distinguish two things rightly. The
first is the state of the law as it exists now, and
that's what we ask you to affirm. And that is, the
Federal Circuit has made quite clear that its test is
inclusive, and we think that that establishes that it's
not necessary to add some new sort of undetermined test
of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You say its test is
inclusive. I would say its test is meaningless. They
have essentially said, our test simply reduces to what,
what your opponents in this litigation say. If you
think that's being inclusive, you know -- it doesn't add
anything whatever to -- to the -- to the question, would
a person of the ordinary skill in this field have
conceived of this idea.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, I disagree
for the following reasons, and that is: What the
Federal Circuit is saying is that any amount of
evidence, any form of evidence is relevant to answer a
particular question. We have a question that we want
answered. They have a question they want answered.
Their question, the petitioner at least, I'm not sure
about the Solicitor General, the petitioner's standard
is, was somebody capable of doing this? We have a
different question. Would it have been apparent to, and
that's what we think the text requires, would it have
been apparent to one skilled in the art? And so the
Federal Circuit is saying whatever evidence you want to
bring to bear --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Don't you think there's a
grammatical difference in the meaning of the word
obvious and the meaning of the word apparent?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, I don't.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So you're saying that the
question is whether it's obvious?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, that's right. And what
the Federal Circuit is saying, you have -- what it's
saying is, if you just look to capability, and that is,
could you put Asano together on pin 54, you will miss
the most important part of invention. And that is,
invention isn't at the end when you put the two things
together. Invention is finding the problem, deciding
what pieces of the prior art to use, and deciding how to
put them together. Everybody is always capable of, it
will always be the case, I think, that a practitioner of
the art can put them together. Remember the very point
of a patent, when you look at our patent at the end of
the case, we were required to explain it in great
detail.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, but your -- the
Federal Circuit is saying that, the gist of it is if and
only if the previous patents taught this. But you, you
can look at these two devices, and you're a good
mechanic, you've never seen a patent, you've never read
these patents, you've never read these claims, you've
never been to the Supreme Court, and you put them
together.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, that's
not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And the Federal Circuit
said oh, it's not in the patent, it's not obvious.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, with
respect, that is not a fair description of the Federal
Circuit's test, and I will take you to the language that
addressed this claim. It's at the bottom of page 18 of
our brief and also at the top of 19, and we quote the
Solicitor General's brief. The Solicitor General
asserts to the contrary, that Federal Circuit precedent
focuses attention exclusively on a search for teaching,
suggestions and motivations in the prior art. That is
not accurate. That was a quote from their brief.
Here is a quote from the Solicitor General.
It is from a new opinion of the Federal Circuit, but it
is quoting, it is citing a series of old opinions from
the Federal Circuit. Under our nonrigid motivation,
suggestion, teaching test, a suggestion to combine need
not be found in the prior art. And then there is the
blocked quote that I read to Justice Breyer about making
things cheaper, faster, lighter, common knowledge and
common sense.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, once you define the
teaching, suggestion and motivation test that way so
that it can be implicit, it can be based on common
sense, I don't quite understand the difference between
that and simply asking whether it's obvious. Could you
just explain what that adds?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, all that it adds is an
analytical framework. It's an elaboration. The word
"obvious" --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It adds a layer of
Federal Circuit jargon that lawyers can then bandy back
and forth, but if it's -- particularly if it's
nonexclusive, you can say you can meet our teaching,
suggestion, or motivation test or you can show that it's
nonobvious, it seems to me that it's worse than
meaningless because it complicates the inquiry rather
than focusing on the statute.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, the
reason that the Federal Circuit disagrees and over 30
years this special court has elaborated this problem --
these judges alone, for example, have heard 300 cases on
nonobviousness -- is that we need a guidance, we need
guidance for the lower courts. We need to focus them on
the right question, and for patent examiners and patent
practitioners, and the right question is not is -- was
someone merely capable of putting the two together. The
right question is is there any reason to believe that it
would have been apparent at the time of the invention to
create this invention whether it's through a teaching, a
suggestion, a motivation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or anything else.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Or anything else.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So why don't you say that?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: They have.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is -- I agree with the
Chief Justice. It is misleading to say that the whole
world is embraced within these three nouns, teaching,
suggestion, or motivation, and then you define teaching,
suggestion, or motivation to mean anything that renders
it nonobvious. This is gobbledygook. It really is,
it's irrational.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, I this it
would be surprising for this experienced Court and all
of the patent bar -- remember, every single major patent
bar association in the country has filed on our side --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, which way does
that cut? That just indicates that this is profitable
for the patent bar.
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, it turns
out that actually is not accurate.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It produces more patents,
which is what the patent bar gets paid for, to acquire
patents, not to get patent applications denied but to
get them granted. And the more you narrow the
obviousness standard to these three imponderable nouns,
the more likely it is that the patent will be granted.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, that is not
the point of these bar associations' either. These bar
associations, including the American Bar Association,
the American Intellectual Property Law Association, have
lawyers on both sides of all these cases. They're
looking for a test that has balance and that is what the
Federal Circuit has done. Now, let me just say --
JUSTICE BREYER: As you know, we've had a
series of cases and in these series of cases we have
received many, many briefs from all kinds of
organizations and there are many from various parts of
the patent bar that defend very much what the Federal
circuit does and there are many from parts of the patent
bar and others who are saying basically that they've
leaned too far in the direction of never seeing a patent
they didn't like and that has unfortunate implications
for the economy. So if you're going to these very basic
deep issues, is there a reason for me to think, which I
do now think, that there is a huge argument going on in
those who are interested in patent as to whether there
is too much protectionism and not enough attention paid
to competition or whether it's about right, or whether
it goes some other way.
In other words, your argument now suggests
all this is well settled, but I tend to think maybe it
isn't well settled and maybe it is a proper thing for us
to be involved in. So what are your views since you
brought it up?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Breyer, there is a
big debate over whether or not there is too much
patenting in this country and Congress is involved in
the debate. What I don't think that there is that much
debate about is whether a properly applied test that the
Federal Circuit has articulated strikes the right
balance, because that is why all of the patent bar
associations have filed on our side, I think, and that
is it takes account of the interests of both sides and
that is it says, you're right, we have to be concerned
about overpatenting, it says on the other hand we have
to be very concerned about hindsight determinations of
obviousness.
But I do want to just step back and make a
point about judicial administration. If the ultimate
conclusion of this Court is that teaching, suggestion,
motivation just boils down into an inquiry into
obviousness, I still think that an opinion that says
that and says that it, that this Court believes that it
is embracing the bottom line of what the Federal Circuit
has been doing, is the one that will be much better for
the patent system and for the courts, because we have a
real concern and that was articulated -- asked about at
least by Justice Ginsburg and Justice Scalia, and that
is if you purport to change the rules unnecessarily, if
you say we're going off in a different direction, this
test has -- underlies 160,000 patents issued every year.
There is no rhyme or reason to applying a presumption of
validity if you're saying the patent examiner applied
the wrong test. And it will create genuine dramatic
instability.
The question I think is if you think instead
that the teaching, suggestion, motivation test is
incomplete, what is it that you want to add on top of
it, and that's really what I didn't understand from the
first half-hour. If it's going to be --
JUSTICE BREYER: It doesn't have to go on
top. It's just to say what you've been saying, that
what you're supposed to look to ultimately is whether a
person, as the statute says, who is familiar with the
subject, of ordinary skill in the art, whether to such a
person this would have been obvious. Now, there are
many, and this Court has listed several, factors that
might count in favor of it not being obvious, such as
people have been trying to do it for a long time and
they haven't been able to figure out how. That's a good
one, and there are some other ones here. If there's a
teaching right there, it seems to cut the other way.
But to hope to have a nonexclusive list
seems to me a little bit like Holmes trying to hope to
have an exclusive list of what counts as negligence. In
the law we have many standards that you can get clues
about, but you can't absolutely define them, and why
isn't this one of them?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Breyer, I think
that's the dilemma that the Federal Circuit has been
facing and is in answer to the criticism of Justice
Scalia and that is the Federal Circuit isn't trying to
articulate every single possible thing that can show you
that it is obvious. What it's trying to do is focus you
on the right question. It's trying to say, here's the
process of invention: We have to figure out there's a
problem. We have to figure out what prior art you're
going to use. You have to figure out how you're going
to combine it, and then you actually combine it.
The act of invention, the thing that is the
discovery that we want to encourage, is there in the
middle. It's picking out the prior art and deciding how
to put it together.
JUSTICE BREYER: Supposing we then were to
say exactly what this Court already said, that the
standard here is obvious, we list a few of these
additional factors that they've thrown in, and just as
the Court said before, all these additional factors are
there. They can be considered in an appropriate case,
but it is important to remember that the ultimate matter
which is for the judge is to apply the word "obvious" or
not in light of the evidence and what the experts say
and the facts as found by a jury or whoever is the
factfinder. Would you have any objection to an opinion
like that.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well then, in this case
let's assume that we all strike out on coming out with
the magic formulation. One of the ways the law
progresses is we go from case to case, and in this case
you have two standards of operation. One is a pedal
that basically operates by pressure. The other -- and
by levers. Other is by electronics, and these are two
different methods of making the carburetor release the
fuel. So why not, so somebody combines them. Why is
that such a big deal as, as claim 4 says it is.
Certainly this inventor would not be the only one to
think that the two could and should be combined.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, that's
absolutely right, and I just want to focus you on why it
is you now think I lose. We don't lose because that's
not our invention. The Federal Circuit's point was that
that this invention, claim 4, does not put an electronic
throttle control together with an adjustable pedal.
It's do it in a particular way. And let me take you in
summary judgment in this case to the declarations and
explain why it is that the experts here said you would
not have done this. And I just have to urge the Court
to cross the t's and dot the i's here and pay particular
attention to exactly what it is that we claimed and
exactly what it is that they said rendered our patent
obvious.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where in claim 4 do
you say it's putting it together in a particular way?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, if I can
take you to the big book that I asked you to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right, page 8.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Page 8, exactly. And that
is, there are six different pieces to claim 4 and I'm
going to take you to the relevant one. And they are the
last two paragraphs here. We claim an electronic
control attached to the support, so we specify where the
electronic control is going to be. And then we say
where, what that electronic control is going to be
responsive to, and that's the next paragraph: Said
apparatus characterized by said electronic control being
responsive to said pivot, and that said pivot is defined
above to be a fixed pivot. So here is the design.
Let me take you to a picture if I could, and
that's going to be at the back of the red brief.
Engelgau is the third foldout page. It looks like this.
What we say is there is going to be a fixed pivot. It's
the red pivot in our picture, and there's going to be an
electronic throttle control. That's actually on the --
you can't see it because you're looking straight at the
device. That's on the next page. It's in green.
There's going to be an electronic throttle control and
it's going to respond to that pivot.
So we specify where we're going to put the
electronic throttle, on the support. That's what the
Federal Circuit recognized was our invention. Now --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is it basically an
invention where in fact there are only four or five
moving parts on the thing that we have seen, every one
of the moving parts is moving with a fixed ratio to the
accelerator going up and down, as it must be because
they're also moving in fixed ratio with the throttle
thing coming out. And so, whichever of those four that
you figured out you were going to attach it to, it's
obvious, isn't it, that you have to attach it either to
the pedal or to the throttle thing that comes out, or to
a part of the machine that moves in fixed ratio to the
movements of one of those two? Now, that's what I would
find fairly obvious. Why isn't that obvious?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: All right. Let me, Justice
Breyer. The experts say it's not obvious and the reason
nobody did it for 12 years and the reason that Asano was
never combined with an electronic throttle control is
explained in the record in this case and it's twofold.
The first is, and I have to take you now to the picture
of Asano because that's what the claim that is supposed
to make our invention obvious is. They say you would
have done this with Asano. What the experts say is this
Asano thing, no one would ever use it at all.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Who do you get to be
an expert to tell you something's not obvious.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: You get --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, the least
insightful person you can find?
(Laughter.)
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, we got a
Ph.D. and somebody who had worked in pedal design for 25
years.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Exactly.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: And people who actually know
this industry. And they, there are two things that come
from the record in this case. The first is all of the
experts and Engelgau himself testified not simply, no,
this is not obvious, but you would have never used Asano
to solve this or any other problem with an electronic
throttle control.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. You keep coming
back to Asano. Why do you keep coming back? Your claim
here does not say anything about Asano.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, the way
these cases are litigated, and properly so, is the other
side says this would be obvious in light of a particular
piece or collection of prior art. You may have a
nonprior art motivation to combine them, but you're
going to say something else already exists. They say
it's Asano, and you're going to combine it with
something else. This is their motion. Their argument,
the argument that was presented to the Federal Circuit,
was that you would take Asano. That's why --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think they happened to
use Asano simply because that's what you stuck it on.
But I think their basis, their basic point, is anybody
would have thought to stick it on, whether it's stick it
on Asano or stick it onto some other mechanical
accelerator mechanism.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, that is not -- we did
not stick it on Asano. Nobody stuck it on Asano. They
picked Asano because it was the prior art of adjustable
pedal designs.
Justice Scalia, you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's because
the Federal Circuit's approach focuses narrowly prior to
our grant of certiorari, allegedly more flexibly after,
on prior art, as opposed.
To I would say common sense. And so they
say we have to find something in prior art to show that
this was non -- that this was obvious.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, that's
not correct. Even under a capability standard, even
under an extraordinary innovation standard, you are
going to compare something to prior art. You're going
to take what exists now and compare it to what existed
before, no matter what standard you're employing. And
what they did is they compared it to the prior art,
which is Asano, and the Federal Circuit said, all right,
you want to say it will come from Asano. It would not
come from Asano for either of two reasons.
The first is you would never use Asano.
That's the expert testimony. The second is the reason
given by the PTO in its brief in this case and that is
you wouldn't put it on the pin that would render
Engelgau obvious. You would put it somewhere else.
They say that you would put it attached to a lever up
high. What I want to make clear is two things. The
first is, though the Federal Circuit has in recent
opinions been quite emphatic about how inclusive its
test is, it has consistently cited earlier Federal
Circuit precedent and said that the other side and the
people who claimed that their standard is too narrow and
misguided are mischaracterizing it. And the second is,
the judgment in this case quite explicitly acknowledges
and implies the implicit teaching, suggestion,
motivation standard.
So I don't want you to have the mistaken
impression that there has been some radical change in
Federal Circuit law. But no matter what one thinks
about the differential between Federal Circuit law today
and Federal Circuit law a year ago or two years ago,
there is a quite considerable cost by articulating a
desire to head off in a new direction, because there
will be dramatic instability in the patent system, the
incalculable investments that underlie current patents.
There is nothing fundamentally not functional about how
the Federal Circuit is approaching this question. It
has had decades to look at this to try and elaborate a
standard. This court in cases like Sakraida and --
JUSTICE BREYER: And it so quickly modified
itself.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And in the last year or so,
after we granted cert in this case after these decades
of thinking about it, it suddenly decides to polish it
up.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, if you
actually believe that, then you just don't believe the
judges in the Federal Circuit because in each of these
opinions they say quite explicitly we are not changing
it.
JUSTICE ALITO: Would you dispute that in
some of the earlier cases, like Dembiczak with the
garbage bag that looks like a pumpkin, that this TSM
test was applied in a way that seemed to ask for
something quite explicit in the prior art?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I do think that you can find
outliers. I think that's fair. These judges as I said
have heard 300 of these cases. There are mistakes in
the Patent Office; there are mistakes by judges. The
Federal Circuit explains in Dembiczak what it was
actually looking for is an explanation. It wasn't
saying that you had to use the prior art, and it has
tried to make quite clear that the law is not that you
have to have prior art. Or that those decisions here
today.
You can't take, in a system that produces so
many patents, and say ah, look at this side swing
patent, or the garbage bags, and draw from that the
conclusion that the system is fundamentally broken.
Justice Breyer, I meant to come back to
that. We can look through the studies, we cite a series
of empirical studies in our brief that have looked at
this problem, the rhetorical claim that the obviousness
rule is leading to gross over-patenting.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Tell me again, just to be
sure I have it my -- tell me very briefly, what it is
that makes this invention nonobvious?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Two things. The first is --
and they do arise from the other side's motion under
Asano. First you wouldn't have chosen Asano. The
second is the Federal Circuit explained -- excuse me,
the Solicitor General explains that you would have put
the electronic throttle control somewhere else,
technically on what's called pivot 60, which would not,
would have rendered, would have not have rendered
Engelgau obvious.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The invention, to use an
old-fashioned term, is the decision of where to put the
control.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is the extent of the
entire invention.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And just -- what
makes it nonobvious is that it's attached to a nonmoving
piece?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: An adjustable pedal that has
a nonmoving pivot, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the claim doesn't
require that.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes it does. It does. I
promise.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But just to follow
up from Justice Stevens' question, what makes this
nonobvious is the decision to place the electronic
control on a part of the car that doesn't move?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: On the support --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: And then a particular kind
of adjustable pedal. That's the state of the record so
far.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm sorry. Doesn't the
axis turn?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Does the pivot turn?
JUSTICE BREYER: Isn't there an axis, and
the axis turns?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: The pivot rotates?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The pivot rotates, but it
doesn't -- the difference is that the pivot doesn't move
with the adjustment of the pedal. It spins around, of
course, you have to have something that you can -- but
the prior art, almost all that involved a pivot that
when the pedal moved out, the electronic throttle
control would go with it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the wires would
get worn, worn down, right? And the invention here is
well, let's not put it somewhere where it doesn't move,
and so the wires won't move and it won't get worn down.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That would be a motivation.
That's absolutely right, why you would want to improve
on the part. The Federal Circuit said that you would
never do it in the way that was described here. You may
be able to prove it some other way on a remand. This
was a very specific motion, and the Federal Circuit
faithfully addressed the claim of obviousness that was
presented to it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you.
Mr. Dabney, you have three minutes remaining but you may
take four.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT BY JAMES W. DABNEY
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. DABNEY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
As someone who tries patent cases, there is
no legal regime that is a greater generator of patent
litigation than the teaching suggestion motivation test
that is urged by the respondent. Where in this
unbelievable situation where, in the District Court,
this Court's precedents were cited, were not followed.
In the Court of Appeals, this Court's precedents in
Anderson's-Black Rock and others were cited, not
distinguished, followed at all.
If the law of this Court had been applied in
the District Court I wouldn't be standing here right
now. The reason that we have this, this proceeding
going on is because of this extraordinary situation,
where notwithstanding that this Court has issued
precedents in a variety of circumstances dealing with
multiple technologies, lots of different kinds of
differences, lots of different kinds of alleged
innovation, they are simply not paid attention to in the
corpus of the Federal Circuit's case law up until about
a month ago.
So the, this Court could do no greater
service to the actual process of determining whether
claimed subject matter does and does not comply with the
statute than to decide with case. The worst possible
thing that can happen in this case is for the case not
to end here, and for the Court not to provide a
precedent as it has done in so many particular past
cases, and give the public an example of a particular
claim and a particular difference that does not meet the
standard.
What's made clear throughout the history of
patent decisionmaking is that no verbal formula is ever
going to get you there. What we have as a functional
approach; it's not as opposing counsel suggests -- is
"it" apparent, is "it" obvious, would it have been
obvious to do "it?"
What this Court has held over and over again
starting with the doorknob case in 1851 is to pose a
problem. Would it have --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What about in this case
where the wires were getting frayed until this
disclosure?
MR. DABNEY: That's not, if you read the
affidavits carefully that is not an accurate
characterization of -- of any evidence put in by the
petitioner. That was an argument --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So suppose I read the
record the other way. Suppose I read the record as
saying this invention stopped the wires from being
frayed and therefore it was an advance.
MR. DABNEY: That would be, to the extent
that that -- if that is established that could be taken
into consideration along with other facts.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why would that be? I mean,
I've worked out that the raccoons are gnawing the
machine, at the bottom of the garage door and that's a
problem. So I move it to the top of the garage door.
Does that suddenly -- nobody before thought of moving it
to the top of the garage door; nobody before had thought
of moving it to a different part that moves in a
constant ratio with the accelerator.
MR. DABNEY: What the statute calls for,
Justice Kennedy, is not to focus on a particular
subjective problem like fitting into a Ford F 350, or
particular difference between a prior art pedal that
provides wire chafing and a claimed invention. The law
has always required that the patentability be determined
by the smallest amount of difference. So if it were
true that there was wire chafing, that that was a
problem that would have had to have been overcome, if
you started with a prior art pedal that, that provided
for wires to move -- well then, maybe that combination
would not make the claimed subject matter obvious.
But that would not foreclose the defendant
from saying well, this other technology over here that
doesn't suffer from that problem, it's a simple matter
to modify that, so the premise of the question, that
because there is some other potential combination that
might have been, might have been more difference or less
reason to modify it than the one that's relied on by the
petitioner, is legally not material to the decision in
this case.
So I respectfully submit that the -- I
really have to emphasize this. I mean, this is a
litigation between, you know, two real businesses. The
justified expectations, Justice Souter that I think this
Court has recognized over and over again, are the
expectations of real innovators, who make real products
and have real inventions. And -- and I think it would
come as a great surprise to the owner of the Asano
patent to find as Justice Breyer suggested, that in
order to supply it to a modern vehicle maker it would
have to pay tribute to the Engelgau patent.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:07 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
56:22 advance 59:6 anybody 9:21 arm 16:24 29:6 34:1 40:1
61:4 affect 6:15 13:24 50:24 6:24 7:4,24 8:4 asphalt 13:14
19:19 35:4,20 58:25 apparatus 13:17 10:22 12:9 assault 8:1,6
56:19 aggregation apparent 29:5,5 19:4 22:19,20 31:17
ago 52:20,20 37:16,18,23 25:17,23,25 15:12 16:23
35:12 agree 12:15 19:5 Appeals 18:18 29:1 30:4,5,17 assertion 27:7,8
51:2 19:10 36:16 24:18 27:15 33:21 37:18 asserts 39:9
41:6 28:15 57:13 38:9,12 39:11 assessing 22:25
58:25 AL 1:6 appendix 28:4 50:16 51:5,11 associations
39:22 53:15 applications 53:19 54:1,3 assume 46:15
45:22 allegedly 51:10 14:4,7 20:9 articulate 45:15 49:1,2
44:15 42:7 apply 4:12 46:8 articulating 55:7
25:9 amount 37:9 4:22 20:17 12:11 15:2 25:12
46:4,5 59:24 51:9 58:15 17:3 26:9 attention 39:10
13:9 53:1 32:2,6,9,16,19 57:24
14:3 22:15 46:6 34:4 35:4 38:5 authority 3:24
analytical 7:25 34:17 50:6,10,11,18 automatic 32:10
16:23 Anderson's-Bl... 2:2,5,9,12 3:3 51:4,4,5,22,23 32:7
47:6 12:23 13:10,10 3:7 5:25 12:8 51:24,25 54:19 axis 56:1,3,4
55:9,23 13:20 17:17 16:8 18:7 20:7 54:19 60:21 a.m 1:13 3:2
56:9
18:17 20:11 59:2 aside 21:4 23:13 17:23 31:13
37:10 45:13 21:3 44:4 47:18 40:7 43:20
50:10,10 book 47:18 54:23 19:14 20:18 chosen 54:19
bore 16:23 calls 5:12 59:18 21:11,16 23:22 circuit 4:20,22
21:15 capability 11:17 58:9 29:6,10,15
Breyer 9:2,9,13 capable 31:17 category 23:22 35:18,21 36:3
9:24 10:17 37:15 38:10 23:23 36:7,20 37:9
11:3,8 14:5 40:22 cert 53:7 37:19 38:3,17
31:1,3,5,7 34:7 55:19 19:1 40:7,15 42:10
43:7 44:18 46:21 11:22 18:23 44:1 45:12,14
46:19 48:19 49:8 58:25 certiorari 6:8 51:22 52:7,10
53:4 54:9 case 3:11,17,22 51:10 52:18,19,20
2:4,7,11 39:7,8,12 48:7 12:9,21,21,23 change 23:23 24:7,12 25:2
3:8 18:8 52:2 54:11 12:23 13:5,10 44:6 52:17 30:10 31:21
57:5 briefed 17:22 13:11,12,15,20 changing 53:13 32:19 39:5
53:11,11 briefs 42:13 14:12,13,24 characterizati... 57:25
broader 21:7 19:22 21:17 48:3 circumstances
broadly 3:11 26:5,8,22 29:3 6:11 cite 54:10
brought 43:6 36:4,7,9,14 Chief 3:3,9 7:12 citing 39:15
47:18 13:22,22 14:18 47:8 49:11 27:21,25 40:6 5:1,4 7:4 12:11
C 58:5,6,6,19,21 47:19 49:17,20 17:10,11,12,19
39:19 3:1 27:23 cases 4:21 6:4 51:8,15 55:6 26:17 27:19
32:9 20:25 61:1 cross 47:11
50:10 come 15:11 24:4 confused 30:2 count 44:25 curiae 1:19 2:8
55:11 31:13 35:22 Congress 10:6 country 41:16 18:8
58:10 50:3 51:23,24 28:17 43:9 43:9 curing 4:5
7:23 8:17 comes 20:22 13:5 course 7:12 cursory 22:16
13:4 32:23 33:20 consider 22:15 20:14 24:21 cut 4:18 41:18
23:3 49:3 considerable 27:9 35:7 45:4
25:22 coming 34:23 52:21 56:10
52:11 46:15 48:25 consideration courses 14:15 D
59:22 50:9,10 8:15 59:9 court 1:1,12 D 3:1
comment 20:21 considerations 3:10,14,25 4:5 Dabney 1:15 2:3
21:6 35:24,24,24 12:22 46:6 8:22 11:11,12 7:20 9:8,21
26:13 39:20,21,24 considering 11:14 12:22 10:10,25 11:5
38:21 51:12 33:16 13:19 17:15 11:9,22,25
20:2 51:19 52:9 21:19 22:14,14 16:12,15,18,21
26:8 compared 51:21 constant 59:17 22:25 23:25 18:1,5 57:2,4,6
33:18 comparing 7:24 constitutes 8:5 24:12,18 25:14 58:24 59:7,18
36:20 competition constraint 7:18 25:14,15,21 dangerous 21:2
54:2 42:25 Construed 27:15 28:1,2 Dann 19:22
complicates 18:12 28:15 34:2 deal 25:19 46:23
concede 15:20 contrary 18:14 57:11,13,16,17 decades 53:2,7
30:19 concepts 7:7 47:25 48:1,3 40:19 44:3 11:12 33:15
60:3,9 concern 44:4 48:11,14 49:10 Court's 6:25 7:7 36:3,3,14
43:18 55:3,19 56:13 13:25 18:15 53:8
32:18 concerns 3:11 controlling 12:6 19:13,20 20:4 deciding 38:8,9
39:17 concludes 24:1 convincing 5:10 20:19 24:24 45:24
50:16 conclusion 25:8 24:8 33:18 25:4 57:12,13 decision 5:14,17
43:22 54:8 corpus 57:25 cousin 10:7 20:19 26:4
24:16 27:6 32:13,15 51:16 40:25 44:11 decisionmaking
detailed 22:21 disagree 10:23 29:5 42:5 49:2 enormous 17:11
determination disagrees 40:15 elaborate 53:2 entire 8:6 55:5
24:10,14,25 disclosure 58:23 40:16 19:13
47:8 determinations discuss 32:3 electrodes 8:25 22:23
19:16 58:3 18:23 36:17 47:23,25 48:1 escape 6:9
45:9 48:13 distinguishing 54:22 55:18 essentially 37:1
17:21 38:19 district 3:24 electronics establishes
devise 5:3 7:2 34:2 57:11,17 46:20 36:21
7:13 door 34:22 elementary 7:16 10:20,21
25:3 doorknob 8:3 elements 23:1,2 evidence 5:10
difference 5:1 doubt 21:16 embracing 44:1 37:19 46:9
23:21 24:1 dramatic 44:11 60:15 exactly 46:2
differences Dystar 36:2,12 51:20 44:10
56:21 28:21 57:23 encourages example 10:19
39:4 37:16 44:7 earlier 14:11 Engelgau 3:12 58:9
49:24 57:22,23 59:16 easy 7:19 15:7,9 16:22 exclusive 11:21
director 4:8 either 12:11 30:3 exist 4:9
50:17 25:18,22 41:16 43:14 28:19 32:7 gist 38:17
fair 39:4 53:21 find 10:8,19 35:9 40:8 give 33:2,3 58:9
faithfully 56:24 51:13 53:20 39:18 46:10 52:2
far 27:1,19 finding 5:11 57:3 gleaned 30:16
34:20 fashion 22:16 fine 11:8,8 22:25 40:4 gnawing 59:11
52:1 faster 30:22 first 11:16 20:14 frayed 58:22 go 10:3 15:2
27:1,16 favor 44:25 36:18 44:17 front 24:20 35:14 44:18
47:9 49:8 Fed 20:9 49:12 50:4 frontal 8:1,6 46:17 56:13
50:5 Federal 3:16 51:25 52:7 fuel 46:22 gobbledygook
47:9 6:1,6,11,15 7:5 fitting 59:20 functional 52:25 goes 32:1,2 43:1
49:11 19:17 20:18 fixed 32:16 functioned 13:9 17:23
21:15,20 22:16 34:10,13 35:11 13:22,23 20:11 21:11
24:11 25:2 49:4 3:18 52:25 33:1,23 35:12
29:10,15 30:10 focus 25:4,4,7 further 18:2 44:17 45:20,20
53:19 31:22 32:14,19 47:2 59:19 48:7,9,10,14
35:18,21 36:3 51:9 G 1:17 2:6 3:1 49:1 50:17,18
57:19 39:1,4,9,14,16 foldout 48:8 59:12,13,15 Goldstein 1:21
42:10 follow 13:6 garbage 53:17 2:10 27:22,23
19:21 52:20 53:1,12 Ford 16:8 32:6 generated 8:25 37:7,24 38:2
21:8 36:8 53:24 54:20 35:5 59:20 generator 57:8 38:24 39:3
56:20,23 57:25 Ford's 15:10 genius 34:8,9 40:3,14 41:3,5
figured 34:17 formula 58:13 3:23 4:2 5:20 47:20 49:7,19
59:9 figures 15:12,15 46:16 11:1 21:23 51:3,15 53:10
heat 13:12,16 implies 52:14 6:18 28:18,24 29:7
56:2,5,7 14:18 imponderable informed 22:21 29:9,18,21
held 6:2 13:19 42:2 25:1 31:19 32:5,8
58:18 11:20 38:6 4:14,16 17:12 33:2 35:20
11:10 8:2,6,14,18 imposed 6:10 initiated 4:8 48:20 49:14
22:14,14 33:1,23 43:18 imposes 7:18 innovation 25:7 54:16 55:1,5
24:13,24 hinge 34:22,25 impossibility 25:12 51:17 56:15 59:5,22
history 58:12 6:17 57:24 inventions 60:20
holding 24:24 imprecise 25:13 innovative 22:7 inventor 27:18
Holmes 45:6 52:17 innovators investments
8:9 16:2 18:22 8:5 inquiries 12:24 involved 43:5,9
53:7 21:1,13 22:11 improvement inquiry 7:5 irrational 41:12
60:21 26:7,15 27:5 inadvisable 40:12 43:23 18:14
Hotchkiss 17:17 incalculable instability 44:12 issuance 4:4
22:3,11 23:6 11:10 31:15 interesting 44:8 57:20
26:7,15 27:5 inclusion 29:14 interests 43:15 25:18 42:21
idea 30:3 37:6 inconsistent invalidates 2:13 3:7 57:4
illustrate 31:10 3:5 5:6 joint 14:15 28:4
29:17 30:15 industry 50:3 23:3 24:2 judgment 3:17
21:18 53:6,10,15 lack 19:23 17:10 32:4,6 39:19 46:21
47:8 54:9,14 55:1,6 laid 22:14 32:16 mandatory 20:4
55:11,16,17,21 language 39:5 line 21:3 27:12 manifestations
24:14,18 61:1 31:8 41:20 litigated 17:22 marketable
26:6 justified 21:4 49:22 55:15 26:16,21 50:13 13:17
60:17 law 4:12 5:24 litigation 3:22 material 60:12
4:2 21:19 23:24,25 57:9 60:16 materials 8:25
6:21 K 36:18 42:7 little 15:18 mathematics
9:2,9 Kahn 6:5 45:8 46:16 35:10 45:6 34:16
10:17,23 keep 19:7 50:9 52:18,19,20 long 20:23 34:15 matter 1:11 4:23
50:10 54:2 57:16,25 45:1 4:24,25 5:2,3
12:2,12 Kennedy 11:18 59:22 look 9:11,22 6:11,19 7:2,23
14:2,5 11:23 12:2,12 lawyer 9:25 10:3,4,5,5,6,7 8:17 11:13
15:1,20 12:17 15:1,20 lawyers 40:7 10:7,12,18,21 13:4 21:19
16:7,13 15:24 16:7,13 42:8 29:7,19 34:7 23:21,24,25
17:23 16:16,19 17:23 layer 40:6 38:4,13,19 28:22,23 46:7
19:5 26:5,13 laying 14:15 44:20 53:2 51:20 52:18
20:6,20 36:2,6,13,16 leading 54:13 54:6,10 58:4 60:4,7
22:4 38:16,24 39:1 leakproof 8:19 looked 19:15 61:4
25:6 39:3 46:14 leaned 42:18 54:11 mean 10:3,7,8,9
47:1 58:21 leaving 21:3 looking 5:25 7:4 10:9,21 12:20
28:1 59:3,19 legal 12:8,10 7:4,23 27:18 16:7 20:22
29:23 kind 8:9 15:11 13:5 22:21 42:9 48:12 25:8 29:15
31:1,3 55:22 24:5,10,13,25 53:25 36:6 41:10
32:1 kinds 8:21 27:2 25:8,25 27:13 looks 34:18,21 49:20 59:10
33:6,8 42:13 57:22,23 57:8 35:13 36:2 60:15
34:7 knock 33:20,23 legally 60:12 48:8 53:17 meaning 29:1
know 16:19 22:9 legitimate 20:15 lose 47:3,3 37:22,23
37:7,21 26:15 29:19 let's 46:15 56:16 lot 9:24 30:2,2 meaningless
38:16,24 31:3 33:24,24 level 13:2 34:21 lots 57:22,23 36:25 40:12
34:15 37:3 lever 52:5 lower 19:23 means 8:2 18:12
41:2,4 42:11 50:2 levers 46:20 20:15 34:22 19:8,11,15
60:16 Library 10:6 40:19 28:6,8 29:4,24
42:4 knowing 26:19 light 23:24 30:13 36:8
43:7 knowledge 25:18,19,21 M meant 7:21,22
35:24 39:20 46:9 50:14 machine 34:13 9:20 10:1 54:9
46:1 known 11:16 lighter 30:22 49:4 59:12 measure 11:12
47:1,15 23:4,4 34:12 39:20 magic 46:16 24:7 34:14
48:19 knows 7:10 16:9 limitation 29:14 major 41:15 mechanic 38:20
KSR 1:3 3:4 limitations maker 60:23 mechanical 51:1
17:20 26:17 making 5:24 mechanism 17:4
53:4 L limited 5:7 16:8 33:11 17:7 51:2
39:16,23 40:10 50:6 51:25 33:9,15 34:3 order 60:23
24:21 43:23 44:14 new 1:15 36:22 38:1 39:2 40:1 8:4 17:19
58:10 50:16 52:15 39:14 52:22 40:5 44:23,25 22:18 25:5,24
30:20 35:19 nonexclusive 49:8,14,18 44:22
56:17 59:13 nonobviousness 18:13 19:9,12 overpatenting
35:11 49:4 notwithstandi... 23:9 53:23
naive 35:1,2 N.Y 1:15 old-fashioned 57:24
54:18 name 9:6 55:2 painting 13:16
narrow 27:17 O once 39:22 paragraph 48:2
narrowly 5:7 objection 46:11 open 20:16 47:23
7:6,10 nature 4:23 objectively 7:3 operation 13:24 part 34:14 38:6
9:20 10:2 necessarily 17:3 17:21 46:18 49:4 55:19
necessary 36:22 obtained 28:18 opinion 8:13 56:20 59:16
12:1 need 7:17 17:15 obvious 6:3,24 9:22 15:25 particular 5:13
14:3,4,6 22:15 39:17 7:19 9:14,17 16:3 39:14 14:10 15:8
18:13 40:18,18,19 11:21 15:3 43:24 46:11 25:20 27:18
19:2 needed 5:3 7:2 19:16 21:8,20 opinions 39:15 32:12,18 37:11
20:3 8:5 22:22 24:17 52:8 53:13 47:7,11,16
24:22 needs 7:21 25:24 26:9,20 opponents 37:2 50:14 55:22
28:6 negligence 45:7 26:23,25 27:8 opposed 51:11 58:8,9,10
30:2 never 4:5 5:5 28:24 29:1,2,3 opposing 58:15 59:19,21
31:19 38:20,20,21,22 29:4 31:12,16 oral 1:11 2:2,5,9 particularly
41:23,25 44:8 48:4,5,9,10,15 precisely 35:8 27:17 38:8
48:21 pay 11:13 47:11 56:2,6,7,8,11 predecessors 50:7 54:12
60:24 place 11:20 22:1 8:8 58:20 59:13,20
16:11,23,24 plaintiff's 4:14 12:10 27:6
31:17 32:6,9 4:18 premise 60:8 proceeding 3:20
5:1,3,7,14 32:10,17 46:18 play 24:4 prerequisite 57:18
6:3 7:8 47:6 49:3,24 pleaded 4:14,16 20:5 process 7:25
9:25 51:6 55:9,23 please 3:10 presence 6:12 17:25 30:20
12:25 56:9,12 59:21 18:11 28:1 11:25 45:18 58:3
14:11 60:2 point 3:23 17:16 present 26:17 produce 20:11
pedals 17:9 22:24 28:14 presented 33:19 produces 18:16
17:12,25 31:11,13 32:15,19 35:2 50:20 56:25 41:23 54:5
19:16 pending 4:10 35:5 38:12 pressure 46:19 product 30:19
21:5 people 45:1 50:2 42:5 43:21 presume 23:16 products 60:19
23:9 52:11 47:4 50:24 presumption profitable 41:18
26:2 perfectly 26:8 pointed 32:21 23:14 24:4,5 progresses
28:18,21 performing 23:3 policy 18:15 33:16 44:9 46:17
33:13 person 6:24 7:9 polish 53:8 pretty 35:14 promise 55:14
11:3 22:18 pose 58:19 previous 4:21 proof 24:6,8
38:13,13 25:5,24 26:9 posit 8:2 38:18 proper 22:15
39:2 28:25 29:9 position 3:20 previously 23:4 43:4
41:15 34:12 37:5 15:22 principle 20:1 properly 43:11
44:21,23 49:21 possibility 4:7 prior 5:1,13 50:13
petitioner 1:4,16 possible 45:15 6:23 7:4,24 9:4 Property 42:7
43:13 1:20 2:4,8,14 58:5 10:3,4,6,18,21 proportion
47:13 3:8 17:13 18:9 potential 60:9 12:9 13:1,2,4 34:10 35:11
53:23 37:13 57:5 practical 6:10 18:25 19:4 proposition 21:2
57:7,8 59:2 60:12 23:21 22:19,20 23:2 protecting 8:11
60:22,24 petitioner's 17:9 practitioner 23:5 24:2 protection 5:19
7:1 15:15 Ph.D 49:24 38:11 28:23 30:17 protectionism
21:15 picked 51:5 practitioners 33:21 38:9 42:24
picking 45:24 40:21 39:11,18 45:19 prove 33:25
49:12 precedence 51:5,9,11,13 proven 20:1
piece 33:21 precedent 20:15 54:1,3 56:11 58:7
14:8 pieces 38:9 52:10 58:8 probably 34:17 60:2
23:1,14 52:3 18:15 19:13,20 14:15,18 17:21 proving 18:12
28:5 pins 17:5 20:4 57:12,13 19:17 21:6,24 19:12
38:18,21 pivot 32:17 48:4 57:21 25:2 27:15,15 PTO 3:20 4:3
19:6 59:11 reflects 11:14 reserve 18:2 18:19 25:6
29:21 radical 52:17 regime 57:8 respect 7:3 16:2 49:17,20 50:1
raising 20:21 reject 11:23 39:4 51:8 55:6,16
45:25 ratio 34:13 rejected 11:15 respectfully 55:21 56:14
48:16 48:22,24 49:4 18:17 33:14 11:5 17:14 57:1 61:1
54:21 59:17 relates 32:4 60:14 Rock 12:23
56:16 Rayovac 8:16 release 46:21 respond 48:15 13:10,10,20
reactions 35:13 relevant 30:4 respondent 17:18 57:14
40:22 38:20,21 39:19 reliance 20:15 respondents room 9:10,11
58:24 59:3,4 relied 60:11 1:22 2:11 30:4
remaining 57:2 17:7 27:24 rule 54:13
12:12 41:11 44:16 remedy 4:9 31:25 48:2,4 S
16:3 60:15 remember 6:2 rest 18:2 S 2:1 3:1
18:16 reason 7:13 9:6 38:12 rests 32:19 Sakraida 19:22
20:22 16:18,21 32:13 41:15 46:7 33:21 20:19 22:25
24:15,19 40:15,23 42:21 remotely 17:9 result 8:2 23:22 53:3
26:2 44:9 49:8,9 render 3:25 4:12 results 30:19 sat 15:9
27:14 52:1 57:18 52:3 reveal 26:18 satisfaction
33:18 60:11 rendered 47:13 reversed 18:18 19:20
reasons 37:8 54:24,24 19:24 save 19:1,2
38:1 51:24 renders 31:22 revolution 20:7 saw 14:16 35:13
REBUTTAL 41:10 re-examination saying 24:17
45:17 2:12 57:4 repeatedly 4:8 37:9,19,25
55:17 received 42:13 30:14 rhetorical 54:12 38:3,4,17
recited 17:2 reproduced rhyme 44:9 42:17 44:10,19
39:25 49:11 50:4 38:14 59:23 31:23 32:14 31:18 32:18,23
55:23 59:4,4 requirement 34:3 38:2 34:2 35:18
54:2 recorded 35:23 15:8 40:20,21,23 43:16,17,24,25
30:11,12 48:10 10:13,14 15:10 45:4,17 47:2 50:14
reduces 37:1 28:21 47:19 49:7 Scalia 14:2,10
28:9 32:1 51:13 solution 8:20 state 36:18 subsidiary
33:6,8 showing 5:11 solve 8:21 14:18 55:23 25:18
36:24 19:9 17:20 27:19 statement 8:12 successive 14:15
41:2,4,6 showings 25:22 50:7 States 1:1,12,19 suddenly 53:8
42:4 shown 15:12 solved 8:22 2:7 3:13 5:5 59:14
45:14 16:22 somebody 32:24 18:8 suffer 60:7
side 29:12 32:22 37:15 46:22 statute 6:25 8:1 sufficient 25:23
53:6,10 33:19 34:3 49:24 23:20 25:10 sufficiently 22:6
41:16 43:14 something's 26:3 28:13 22:8,12 26:1
54:18 23:7 36:22 33:16 60:22
8:7 simply 6:23 Souter 20:6,20 37:25 54:14 suggestion 5:12
33:17 11:16 21:19 21:10 60:17 55:1,17 6:13 9:15
35:2 32:9 34:18 special 12:2,5 51:1,4 19:15,24 20:3
37:1 40:1 50:5 40:16 sticker 34:19 22:1 24:22
48:21 situation 57:11 specify 35:17 15:7 41:1,9,10
35:24 six 47:21 speed 34:14 strike 46:15 52:14 57:9
51:12 skill 5:2,17 6:24 spins 56:9 strikes 43:12 suggestions
32:11 11:14 13:2 13:23,23 structural 17:20 suggests 43:2
17:19 22:18 stand 16:5 structure 17:2 58:15
54:10 28:25 29:9 13:16 37:14 struggling 16:17 21:18 47:8
small 4:25 standards 45:8 7:2,23 8:17 supplemented
32:25 39:8,8,13 starting 28:12 submitted 61:2 2:8 18:9
45:15 54:21 58:19 61:4 suppose 6:3
59:3,4 teaching 5:12 57:9 three 31:15 turn 34:9,10
24:13 9:15 18:13 testimony 52:1 42:2 57:2 turns 41:21 56:4
44:20 19:11 20:3 text 28:14 37:17 throttle 16:10 two 7:6 9:12
21:25 24:22 Thank 18:4,10 29:22 31:24 13:23 14:21
38:22 35:19,25 39:10 61:1 48:17,24 49:3 36:17 38:7,19
54:15 40:25 41:8,9 32:20 54:22 56:12 46:25 47:23
teachings 5:13 45:15,22 48:21 18:3 28:24 twofold 49:11
54:5,8 tell 36:14 49:18 think 9:2,21 tomorrow 21:12 24:14,25 25:20
15:2 18:22 top 39:7 44:15 25:25 44:20
15:5,22 terms 25:13 29:3 34:1,8,11 traditional 4:11 underlie 52:24
29:7,21 test 3:18 6:9 34:24,25 35:5 traditionally underlies 44:8
31:23,24 7:14,18 10:24 35:13 36:13,14 12:25 23:15 underlying 24:9
34:3 39:5 11:19,21 12:18 36:21 37:3,17 transforms 25:21
12:18,20 16:17 37:21 38:11 24:12,14 understand 9:2
49:12 16:20 18:13,20 42:21,22 43:3 treats 5:15,18 9:17,19 14:5
51:19 19:7,17,18,20 43:10,14,24 tribute 60:24 18:20 21:25
57:3 21:16,20,24 44:13,13 45:11 tried 9:24 54:2 22:4 28:6 29:2
23:9,10,13,17 50:22,24 53:20 tries 33:20 57:7 35:15 39:25
43:15 25:3,7,9,12 thinking 53:8 true 31:7 59:25 understanding
8:10 15:14 36:20,22,24,25 THOMAS 1:17 27:18 45:1,6 35:24
21:14 37:1 39:5,17 1:21 2:6,10 45:14,16,17 understood 24:6
35:3 39:23 40:10 18:7 27:23 TSM 53:17 undetermined
30:6 52:9 53:18 50:25 59:14,15 Tuesday 1:9 13:3,4
W 1:15 2:3,13 30:2 37:22,23 8:7 8 47:19,20
3:13 5:5 want 10:4,4 28:2 worded 3:11 12 49:9
28:13 29:10 words 22:9 12:07 61:3
35:17,20 37:11 43:2 160,000 44:8
44:15 45:23 59:11 1851 58:19
17:5,5 wasn't 33:15 wouldn't 10:18 2 15:16 16:13
35:8 34:16 53:25 52:3 54:19 17:1,8,15
45:20 way 4:11 12:13 57:17 26:13
50:23 15:11 17:1 wrapped 8:25 20 9:18,19 20:9
54:1 18:24 19:1 wrong 18:15,17 20:10 23:11,18
21:11 25:17 44:11 2006 1:9
39:23
43:1
53:18 year 6:2 44:8
19:6 46:16
14:14 15:2,2 16:14 17:2,8
weight 27:9
40:16 49:9,25 30 40:15
23:14 We'll 3:3
33:17 52:20 300 40:17 53:22
33:22 35:3
48:16 York 1:15 4
0 17:10,11 21:7
47:21
17:1,7
21:11
28:20
