IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORP., :
ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 05-1272
UNITED STATES, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, December 5, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:09 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Petitioners.
MARIA T. VULLO, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of
Respondent Stone
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
on behalf of Respondent United States
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MARIA T. VULLO, ESQ.
On behalf of Respondent Stone 24
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of Respondent United States 37
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:09 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in 05-1272, Rockwell International
Corporation versus United States.
Ms. Mahoney.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN E. MAHONEY
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS
MS. MAHONEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Tenth Circuit in this case correctly
held that Stone could not share in the award given by
the jury unless he was an original source of pondcrete
allegations. But it then went on to find that he was an
original source based upon a misinterpretation of the
core requirements of the statutory definition.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Mahoney, let me ask you
a question. Am I wrong about this? It seems to me that
if he was not an original source, not only shouldn't he
get any money, but neither should the government. Isn't
that the way the statute reads?
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, that is one
possible interpretation of the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How is there any other
possible one? It says there's no jurisdiction in this
situation.
MS. MAHONEY: I think the way that the
courts have handled it below is that it says that
there's no jurisdiction unless it is a claim brought by
a relator who is an original source or if it's brought
by the United States. And if the relator drops out, I
think courts deem it to at that point be viewed as a
claim brought by the United States. It's sort of a
retroactive amendment of the pleadings.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not brought by the
United States as long as he's still there.
MS. MAHONEY: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's your argument.
MS. MAHONEY: Well, it can't be, Your Honor,
because under the statutory terms, under section 3720(a)
the Attorney General has the authority to bring a claim
on behalf of the United States. There is no authority
for the United States to bring a claim on behalf of the
relator. Instead there is a second type of claim under
section 3730, and that's a section (b), which authorizes
a relator to bring a claim on behalf of himself and the
United States.
Similarly, Your Honor, if you look at the
provisions in section (d), which authorize an award to a
relator, it requires that the action be one brought
under section (b), that is in other words it be an
action brought by the relator which the United States
then proceeds on for (d)(1).
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess it really depends
on whether you think the language "if the Government
proceeds with an action" is equivalent to the
Government's bringing the action.
MS. MAHONEY: Well, I don't think it can be,
Your Honor, because if you look at the language
throughout these sections, it differentiates between two
kinds of actions, actions brought by the United States
or the Attorney General and actions brought by the
relator. And it is only an action brought by the
relator under section (b) that authorizes an award under
section (d). And it consistently talks about that.
What they're really arguing, Your Honor, is
that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait. It says under
3, what is it, (c)(3) I guess, if the elects not to
proceed with the action, the person who initiated the
action shall have the right to conduct the action. Now,
that suggests that if the Government intervenes the
Government is proceeding with the action, right?
MS. MAHONEY: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you say that's
different from the Government bringing the action.
MS. MAHONEY: Absolutely. If you look at,
if you look at the language in section (d), for
instance, it says if the government proceeds with an
action brought by a person under section, subsection
(b). In other words, it has to be an action under
subsection (b) in order to authorize an award at all.
The Government has -- has authority under subsection (a)
to bring an action, but it has no authority to bring it
on behalf of the relator.
The statute consistently uses these same
terms, and this Court in Graham County, which was a
decision dealing with the statute of limitations,
actually described this section in the same way, saying
that there are two kinds of actions, those that are
brought by the Attorney General under subsection (a) and
those that are brought by a relator under subsection
(b), which the United States can then proceed with.
What the relator is really arguing here is
that if you look at the -- at subsection (e)(4), they're
adding a phrase that's not there. They're saying that
there's no jurisdiction over an action under this
section if it is brought by the Attorney General or
brought by a relator who is an original source or the
United States intervenes and proceeds with the action.
And that's not in here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're being very
picky-picky with this text, considering that you're
willing to swallow whole the notion that so long as
the -- so long as the original party, so long as the
non-government plaintiff drops out, all of a sudden it
become as action brought by the United States. That's a
very, very expansive notion of what "brought by the
United States" means.
What I'm saying is or, to put it another
way, if you take your picky-picky notion of being
brought by the United States, to be logical about it you
must reach the conclusion that if you defeat the private
plaintiff under -- under he's not original source, the
whole thing is thrown out, not just his recovery but the
Government's recovery.
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, of course that
would be great for Rockwell, and so --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I know, but it would be so
extreme that we're not likely to buy it.
MS. MAHONEY: Well, we don't argue for that
because I think that the Court has said that the
Government's intervention does not cure defects with
respect to the relator, and therefore, if the relator
didn't have -- that -- doesn't have standing -- you
know, part of this goes to the issue of the Stevens
assignment. If they don't have an assignment, then they
don't even have standing to be in the action, they have
no right to recover.
And so if you're correct that it can't be
cured, in effect, through a procedure like, say, 28
U.S.C. section 1553, which allows amendments to
defective jurisdictional allegations where I think that,
while the courts don't technically require it, they
could say that really this, while it was pled as a
section (b) action, when the relator drops out we could
treat it as a section (a) action, because --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Otherwise, the Attorney
General could just bring it all over again, a fresh
complaint, and that would be wasted motion?
MS. MAHONEY: That's correct, Your Honor. I
think it is a pragmatic rule. But again, if the rule is
that they lose as well, then so be it. The fact is this
statute uses the term that is used in section (a), which
is "brought by the United States." And it makes perfect
sense because otherwise think of what the consequences
are if the relator can simply copy an indictment, file a
complaint, and say -- and the Government intervenes
because it's a major action, and then they say, aha,
you're stuck with me because you've intervened and now
there's jurisdiction and there's no problem, I don't
have to be an original source.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They don't have to give
them any money, though. The court doesn't have to.
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, I think that you
could say that they don't have to give them money.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you'd then have to pay
his attorneys' fees. That's what really this is about,
isn't it?
MS. MAHONEY: Well, it is about that, but we
don't have to pay his attorneys' fees, Your Honor, if he
doesn't get a share, because the way that section (d) is
written is it says that a relator who is paid a share of
the proceeds shall also be entitled to attorneys' fees.
So this is not just an issue between the United States
and Stone. The statute controls the award of fees based
upon whether he's entitled to a share. So even if this
weren't an issue of jurisdiction, if he's not entitled
to a share under a section (d)(1), then he's also not
entitled to attorneys' fees. And therefore, we would
win. He would still need to -- whether it's a
jurisdictional rule or a substantive rule, if he's not
an original source he's out.
But the share is not the only issue that
makes the Government's -- or that makes Stone's argument
implausible here. That is that once the relator is in
the action, the United States can't get them out of the
action. Even if they don't have to pay them money,
under subsection (c) they have a whole range of rights
to participate in the action. They can't dismiss the
relator. So it makes no sense to read this statute to
say that someone who copies an indictment, files a
complaint, the Government intervenes, they're in there
forever. It instead makes much more sense to read the
terms the way they're used elsewhere in the statute, to
mean that there is only jurisdiction if it is a section
(a) claim brought by the United States on behalf of
itself or if it is a section b) claim by a relator that
is an original source. That's what makes sense of the
statute as a whole.
If I could turn to the issue of whether or
not the Tenth Circuit correctly held that Stone had
direct and independent knowledge of the information on
which his allegations were based. It bears emphasis
that every act that he had to prove in order to recover
on the pondcrete allegations -- whether they're measured
at the beginning of the case or the end of the case
doesn't matter -- every single act occurred after he
left the plaintiff, after he had left his job. And we
can see that from the outset of the case. If you look
at his Responses to Interrogatories at JA-189 to 190, he
identifies the factual basis for the pondcrete
allegations that he is asserting. And that factual
basis is described he is asserting and that factual
basis is described as Rockwell's knowing storage of
pondcrete on outdoor pads at the plant in violation of
RCRA with false certification from 1987 to 1989.
Now, he left his job in March of 1986. How
could he possibly have direct and independent knowledge
of those predicate acts?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose a company
has a plan to defraud the Government and it use a
certain chemical mix to save money and that's what the
real fraud is. And it puts it in place and it puts it
in place in 1988. And the -- and it has just two
containers full of this. And the relator knows about
it. The relator then quits. Then for 10 years the
company does the same thing, following the same
patterns, same method, same improper formula.
And he then rings -- he then brings this to
the attention of the Government in the proper way and
files a suit. He cannot recover for the later action
which was the same pattern, practice?
MS. MAHONEY: Perhaps, Your Honor, in
certain circumstances. I think the key question is
what's the standard, and he has to have substantial
knowledge about core fraudulent acts. And it may be
reasonable in your hypothetical or some others to infer
that he knew plenty about this fraudulent conduct and
had plenty of reason to conclude that it was continuing
on.
But here, Your Honor, nothing of the kind
happened. He didn't know about any fraudulent conduct
pertaining to pondcrete before he left. And In fact,
his allegations start in 1987. He does not say that
there were pondcrete violations before then and indeed
there were not.
The reason there weren't is because when he
was at the plant Rockwell was producing hard pondcrete,
hard pondcrete, and it wasn't storing it on site, it was
shipping it to Nevada. So he couldn't -- and it wasn't
even clear that it was subject to RCRA because DOE
didn't enter into a RCRA compliance agreement until
after he left.
He also concedes in his deposition that he
was not, except with one exception -- he was not aware
of any time when Rockwell affirmatively represented that
it was in compliance with environmental safety and
health provisions when it was not. That's JA-106. So
he didn't -- unlike your hypothetical, he didn't know
anything about there being a pondcrete fraud prior to
the time of his departure and doesn't even allege one.
Instead, what the Tenth Circuit rested upon was the fact
that he had reviewed a design for making pondcrete 5
years -- in fact, not for making pondcrete; it was
actually a design for removing sludge from the ponds --
5 years before any of the events at issue here, and he
said he predicted there would be a design problem.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It wouldn't have to
have anything to do with pondcrete at all. The statute
just says the information on which his allegations are
based. They don't say the allegations that eventually
give rise to a recovery.
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, every court that
has considered that question has said that it has to be
analyzed on what they call a claim by claim basis. Let
me explain the reason. First of all, let me explain
what they mean by claim by claim. They really mean a
factual theory of falsity, and that it has to be done on
a claim by claim basis, and here's why --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Factual theory of falsity,
that doesn't mean anything to me.
MS. MAHONEY: A theory of falsity. In other
words, a claim, what is called a claim in these cases in
the claim by claim analysis is a theory of falsity. In
other words, it's why were -- why was the fraudulent
claim false? Because there may be a certification, for
instance, of compliance with let's say all laws and
there could be five different, completely different fact
patterns as to why that was false, and the damages might
be completely differ as well.
So all of the courts have said that's really
the way that FCA cases are litigated, that's really what
we call a claim.
And then, moving back, if you didn't do it
on a claim by claim basis, you would allow a relator to
copy an indictment that he knows nothing about, come to
court, file it, add one theory that he does know about,
an overcharge for five dollars on a hammer, say that,
I'm now entitled to proceed on the whole thing and if
the Government doesn't intervene I get a minimum of 25
percent of the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's one way to
look at it. Another way would be you would allow a
relator in a situation who alleges a particular fraud
that causes the government to examine the books and
uncovers a different fraud to recover on that basis.
It's an unusual situation to have a jurisdictional
prerequisite determined only after the case is over.
MS. MAHONEY: But, Your Honor, it doesn't
have to be determined after the case is over. These
inquiries should -- it should have been determined here
as well at the very outset of the case. And it was. It
was just determined wrong.
We do not have to show that it was wrong at
the end of the trial in order to prevail in this case.
It was wrong at the beginning. The interrogatories --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you only show
that it's wrong at the end, you still say that they
should be thrown out.
MS. MAHONEY: Yes, we do, Your Honor but it
is not by any means necessary to the outcome in this
case. And the reason why I think that you do have to at
least allow for the possibility of looking at the end of
the case, whether there is jurisdiction or not, is
because of the nature of this particular jurisdictional
bar. This is a jurisdictional bar that turns on the
nature of the allegations at issue in the case.
Much like -- I think the Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act is a perfect example because it too talks
about jurisdiction being predicated on, for instance,
commercial -- claims that are based upon commercial
activity. Suppose that the plaintiff at the outset of
the case when the 12(b)(1) motion is filed posits one
theory of the case that involves a predicate commercial
act. But when it gets to trial he's abandoned that
theory and now he doesn't have any commercial act.
Surely the Court would say you have to satisfy
jurisdiction over the theory that has actually gone to
trial.
This statute is very much the same. And it
should not be read in a way that allows relators to
simply disguise the true basis of their claims, hide the
relevance of the public information, and then just shift
gears when you get to trial.
But here again, if we just look at the very
beginning of the case, he does identify in those
interrogatory responses, for instance, what the factual
basis for the pondcrete allegations are. All that
factual basis is all identified as -- as core acts that
occurred after he left the plant. So we can look back
in this case and say that the trial court erred at the
outset by not dismissing this portion of his claim as
well as, in fact, should have dismissed the whole thing,
Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, his allegation
was that this, the design is not going to work.
MS. MAHONEY: But Your Honor --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's not an
allegation that's -- I mean, it is either true or it's
not true. The fact that you find out after he's left,
after he's been terminated, that it doesn't work, I
don't see how that should affect the validity of his
allegations.
MS. MAHONEY: Because, Your Honor, this,
this is a statute about fraud. It's not a statute
that's violated because Rockwell may have had a
suboptimal pipe. That's not, that's not even the RCRA
violation. That's not -- and it is certainly not a
False Claims Act violation. They weren't selling
pondcrete to the United States. He didn't know about a
plan to defraud the United States.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They were certifying
their compliance with the applicable laws --
MS. MAHONEY: At that, at the time --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- based upon their
pondcrete design.
MS. MAHONEY: At the time that he was there
that was not actually -- he didn't even allege that he
knew they were doing that with respect to pondcrete. He
didn't allege that there were any problems with respect
to the pondcrete production or, or certifications during
his tenure. From -- they began producing pondcrete in
1985, Your Honor. And there were no problems that were
alleged with respect to that pondcrete.
His claim by his own admission starts in
1987, after he was gone. And again, the mere fact that
there may have been a defective pipe wouldn't establish
the RCRA violation, because what they had to show by
their owning pleading here was that they were storing it
on site, that it was actually leaking, and, of course,
the mere fact there may have been a problem with the
pipe doesn't mean it is actually going to leak, because
they can fix it in a variety of ways. They can add more
cement, they can put it in metal containers, they can do
a myriad of things.
He didn't even say he knew know that there
was a plan to not remedy and problems in the design that
he had identified if and when there became a problem
with it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Am, am I correct that they
were, in fact, using that same pipe or that same pipe
system during a period when perfectly fine cement blocks
were being produced?
MS. MAHONEY: We think that's correct, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that true, is that
conceded?
MS. MAHONEY: Well, I think that it's
conceded that -- well, their own counsels told the jury
that they were making it wrong, they weren't adding
enough cement, that that was the reason that it was
failing; and the Government told the jury that they were
making it fine until they reduced the ratio of cement.
So yes, I think it is correct that it has been conceded
at trial that the system was working fine as long as
they were adding enough cement.
But instead what happens after he left --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The whole purpose,
the whole purpose of this legislation is to ferret out
fraud on the Government. I mean, if he makes an
allegation that this design is not going to work, the
pondcrete is not going to work, and the Government,
prompted by his lawsuit, investigates it and finds out
that because of human error they're not making it the
right way, even if the design does work, he get no
credit for that?
MS. MAHONEY: Well, Your Honor, the statute
isn't written in that way. But let me also call your
attention to some facts. And that is that a year before
he brought this claim --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what about the
hypothetical? Are you suggesting that in a situation
like that -- -we'll talk about whether the facts comport
with it later -- but in a situation like that, he's not
entitled to share in the recovery that the Government
eventually receives?
MS. MAHONEY: If -- the mere fact that he is
a trigger for the Government discovery of a different
problem, no, that is not a basis for recovery. The
statute says that if there has been a public disclosure,
if -- let's assume there was a public disclosure. If
there's no public disclosure it is no problem. He can
bring whatever claim he wants. He doesn't have to have
direct knowledge of it. Bit if there has been a public
disclosures at that point he has to have direct
knowledge of the information on which the allegations
are based. And that has to be a substantial standard.
Direct knowledge is one of the key things that the Tenth
Circuit just did not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You would, you would
change that to say direct knowledge of the information
not on which the allegations are based, but on which
recovery is eventually -- eventually ordered?
MS. MAHONEY: On which the allegations of
the claim is based. In other words, it, it's not -- it
has to be -- and the Government says this as well --
they say under that Section D(1), the relator isn't
entitled to share in the proceeds of anything that the
jury gives. The relator is only entitled to share in
the proceeds of a claim for which they were an original
source or for which they brought the -- brought the
action under, under Section B.
Sometimes the Government intervenes and adds
its own claims not on behalf of the relator, because it
doesn't have authority on behalf of the relator, and it
takes the position, I think correctly, that the relator
isn't entitled to a share in those circumstances.
And Your Honor, this -- the courts have
identified all the ways in which this statute doesn't
make any sense if it is looked at on --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Identified them all?
MS. MAHONEY: -- on a global basis. Excuse
me?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They've identified
them all already?
(Laughter.)
MS. MAHONEY: No, I don't think they have
identified them all. But I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You may find another one.
MS. MAHONEY: I, I would also -- again, it
would allow the relator to get, you know, a share of,
when the Government doesn't intervene, a minimum of 25
percent of a billion dollar recovery after a public
disclosure that he knew nothing about, if he just knew
one little piece after separate theory of fraud.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the theory is not
necessarily bad. The, the relator has to cooperate with
the Government, ideally he should. And if the
Government said we prefer a variance of your theory, and
the relator said fine, "I don't want to put competing
theories before the jury, so I'll surrender my first
theory and go with the Government's," why should the
relator be penalized for that good litigation practice?
It doesn't necessarily mean that the original complaint
is no good or even that it might not have been proved,
if the Government had preferred another route.
MS. MAHONEY: Well it there, if there's a
minor variation, you know, something like that, I
certainly don't think that disqualifies the relator
from, from being an original source. And again, here he
wasn't an original source even under his own theory at
the outset of the case.
What happened at trial is the one little
thing that he knew or claimed to know, his prediction
that a pipe would have a problem five years before, was
dropped completely from the case. So he went from being
a relator who knew something very small about the case
or about the theories to nothing at all. It was never
good enough, but certainly once, once that theory was --
once that piece of information dropped out, it just
demonstrated, it just highlights that he's not an
original source.
And Your Honor, here it wasn't just that
they didn't want to use that bit of evidence. It was
actually inconsistent with the theory that they, that
they pressed with the jury. They said the equipment was
fine. Rockwell was making pondcrete just fine from 1985
forward until it stopped adding the cement.
And that's what they -- that's the theory
they went with. But again, measure it at the outset of
the case, and he still wasn't an original source.
If I could save the remainder of my time?
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask just one quick
question?
MS. MAHONEY: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: What was the public
disclosure of the claim that ultimately prevailed?
MS. MAHONEY: The public -- there -- the
public disclosure was in 19 -- it can be from several
pieces. But in 1988, there were widely covered stories
of the fact that pondcrete was being stored at Rocky
Flats on outdoor pads, that it was leaking and that the
reason it was occurring was because the employees had
reduced the ratio of cement.
And then you couple that with the disclosure
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: And the public disclosure
was made in the newspapers rather than in an official
Government proceeding?
MS. MAHONEY: That's correct. It was in the
newspapers. But it was definitely covered, Your Honor.
And that was more than a year before he brought his
action. And then in addition, there were disclosures of
allegations of performance bonuses being paid based upon
falsified evaluations. That's JA 143.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Mahoney.
Ms. Vullo.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARIA T. VULLO,
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT STONE
MS. VULLO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court.
The Court should affirm the decision of the
Court of Appeals because as the Government recognizes,
Mr. Stone is an original source. And it is important to
the look at the statute and its purpose. The original
source provision is intended to determine who may bring
a claim on behalf of the United States Government. And
the recovery provision, 3730(d)(1), determines how much
if anything a relator may share in the Government's
recovery. In this case, whether where the Government
fully supports the relator, I would submit that the
interests of the statute and the interests of the United
States are fully satisfied.
And that is because Mr. Stone is the
paradigm not parasitic relator. He had knowledge
firsthand from his six years at Rockwell of a pattern,
Justice Kennedy, a pattern of criminal conduct and a
pattern of Rockwell concealing that information.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Unfortunately, it was not
the criminal conduct that was ultimately -- it was not
the manner of criminal conduct that was ultimately the
basis on which the Government proceeded? He knew about
this bad pipe, right? Or he said that this was a bad
pipe system? He didn't say anything as I understand it
about their not adding enough cement which is the theory
that went to the jury.
MS. VULLO: Justice Scalia, I would beg to
differ on that. Mr. Stone in his affidavit at 179 in
the joint appendix and also in his disclosure statement,
which is at 29 -- I'm sorry, 174 and 175 of the joint
appendix, and the disclosure statement at 290, what he
described was a defective design of the system for
taking the sludge out of the pond. And what he
specifically said -- and this is very important -- what
he specifically said was when you took the sludge out of
the ponds in that manner, it was going to have too much
liquid, and it was going to lead to deterioration of the
environment. He said that in the very beginning of the
case. And at trial, what the testimony was -- and I
would direct the Court to Mr. Freibach's testimony at
joint appendix 522, as well as at the trial transcript
at 987, the issue there was the variability of the
sludge which may have caused greater inspections and may
have required additional cement.
And what is very important is even
Mr. Freibach who is the first foreman, on whom
petitioners rely, he testified that during his tenure,
the variation of the sludge required between 200 and 350
pounds of cement. That's at the trial transcript at 987
and the joint appendix at 522.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah. Let me -- let me
look at what -- let me look at 175. This is, this what
he says. "After careful study, I concluded that the
suggested process" -- this means of piping the sludge
out -- "would result in an unstable mixture that would
later deteriorate and cause unwanted release of toxic
wastes to the environment. I also noted based on my
analysis of chemical processes at Rocky Flats that that
the sludge and liquid present in the -- present in the
evaporation ponds contained some of the most toxic and
radioactive substances at Rocky Flats."
I mean, that's all very good, but it has
nothing to do with what this company was convicted of,
which is not -- cutting down on the amount of cement it
was adding.
MS. VULLO: That's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: During a certain period
after this it was creating perfectly good blocks by
adding more cement. Then they got a new manager who
said let's use less cement. And that's when they
started producing the defective blocks. It has nothing
to do with his allegations.
MS. VULLO: Justice Scalia, two important
points. First is that neither the criminal conviction
nor the jury's verdict determined the cause of
insolidity. The issue in the criminal case and the
issue in the False Claims Act case as to pondcrete was
that the pondcrete was insolid and they were lying to
the -- the Government about that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And why did the government
claim it was insolid? What was the claim made for -- as
to the reason for the insolidity?
MS. VULLO: Your Honor, one of the pieces of
evidence -- and I would -- out of 55 witnesses and 500
documents, was that there were certain people who were
using too little cement. There was also evidence --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but was the reason they
were using too little cement, the reason that there was
a variation in the amount of liquid being taken out with
the sludge as you've described to us that he had
claimed, or was the reason simply that there was a kind
of standard ratio of cement to sludge and that standard
ratio was not followed in the later cases?
In other words, is it because there was such
a tremendous variation in the liquid in the sludge or
simply because there was a standard formula having no
particular relationship to the liquid in the sludge, and
they simply didn't follow the standard formula? I
thought the government's theory was the latter, and if
it was the latter, it has nothing to do with the claim
that he was making that there was too much variation in
the amount of liquid in the sludge.
MS. VULLO: That's not correct,
Justice Souter. The reason for the variation and the
need for additional cement was because the sludge had
variations and there was too much liquid in it, which
was precisely what Mr. Stone said. And every one of the
witnesses testified to huge variation of the liquid
content in the sludge which required more cement, and
even the amount of cement that was required was very
variable.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But if they had followed
the formula that they followed at the beginning, isn't
it true that there's no evidence that even these
variations in the liquid in the sludge would have
resulted in instable or insolid pondcrete?
MS. VULLO: No. That's not correct,
Justice Souter. In fact, there was no particular ratio
that had to be followed of cement to sludge. There was
testimony that different individuals who worked on the
pondcrete used different amounts of cement. And as I
said --
JUSTICE SOUTER: This was truly even before
the troubles started, even before the insolid pondcrete?
MR. STEWART: Yes, Your Honor. Yes,
Justice Souter. Mr. Freibach, who was the earlier
foreman, testified that under his watch, he needed
between 250 and 300 pounds of cement, and that there was
a constant inconsistency in the sludge content coming
out of the ponds.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was -- here's an easy
question. Was this evidence that we read, his testimony
from 175 of the joint appendix, was that introduced at
the trial?
MS. VULLO: Mr. Stone did not testify at
trial.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was this evidence
introduced from some other source? Was the jury told
there was this piping that was taking out too much
liquid with the sludge? Was the jury told that?
MS. VULLO: The jury -- Mr. Freibach
described the process. We did not get into the
engineering detail, Your Honor, of it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So his central allegation
was not even placed before the jury?
MS. VULLO: Your Honor, I would submit to
you, Justice Scalia, that that wasn't required. What we
needed to prove --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it is worse than
that, though.
This information was not even provided to
the government, which the statute requires. He not only
has to have direct and independent knowledge, he has to
voluntarily provide that to the government. And I
understand that the Tenth Circuit, to have relied solely
on the document at joint appendix page 605, that's the
only thing he provided to the government. And all it
says is that this design will not work. There are a lot
of things that don't work, but that doesn't mean there's
fraud on the government. You don't know if they're
going to fix it, they're going to change it, use a
different design, not make a claim based on that design.
Why is that enough to satisfy the statute?
MS. VULLO: Mr. Chief Justice, the
voluntarily provides prong requires the relator to be
honest and truthful and submit all the information he
has. And Mr. Stone did that and the government has
never said otherwise. In fact, he met with the FBI
agent --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But he has to -- if
the information that he provides isn't direct and
independent information of the allegations, it would
seem that the statute is not satisfied.
MS. VULLO: That is correct, Your Honor, but
Mr. Stone did have direct and independent knowledge of
his allegations. And I'd like to go back to the
discussion with petitioner's counsel as to the
jurisdictional petition in this statute. There is no
question that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't want to get
off my question here but did you -- do you agree that
this page JA 605 was the only information that he
provided to the government?
MS. VULLO: No, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, maybe I'd
better phrase it differently. Do you agree that that is
the only information on which the Tenth Circuit relied?
MS. VULLO: That, the Tenth Circuit did rely
on that document and did not consider any other
information as a result of its ruling with respect to
that document. The Tenth Circuit also had before it the
awards fee documents which Mr. Stone provided to the
government, and those are at joint appendix 247 to 249.
It also had Mr. Stone's affidavit when he testified in
his affidavit as to his meetings with the government,
and also had additional affidavits --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but this -- he
has to provide this information before filing an action.
MS. VULLO: That's correct, Your Honor. And
his affidavit describes his meetings with the FBI and
EPA beginning in 1986, and that's at joint appendix 180
through 181.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I have a question.
MS. VULLO: Yes, Justice Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: As I understand the
statute, you his the first prong. It has to be an
action based on public disclosure of information, which
you agree it was; is that right?
MS. VULLO: Justice Stevens, we in the
courts below agreed for purposes of the original source
provision that there was a public disclosure. I think
what's important following up on the question --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You agree that it's within
4(a), that it was an action based on a public disclosure
of information disclosed in newspapers; is that right?
MS. VULLO: In newspapers and also the
criminal investigation, but I think what's important is
that the standard that Rockwell seeks to have this Court
adopt would actually require such a great level of
specificity that is not in the public disclosure at all.
And I think, Justice Stevens, you asked that precise
question. The public disclosure was very general. And
the Tenth Circuit --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I am asking you, really
what I'm seeking to find out is what is the scope of the
public disclosure that everyone agrees was made? Was it
all newspapers?
MS. VULLO: It was newspapers, and the FBI
agents' search warrant affidavit was also publicly
disclosed prior to Mr. Stone's filing of the action.
JUSTICE STEVENS: If it was publicly
disclosed in the newspapers, does that fit into one of
the categories of public disclosure mentioned in 4(a)?
MS. VULLO: Yes. It says news reports in
that provision of the statute.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And everybody agrees on
what those news reports contained?
MS. VULLO: Well, I'm not sure what Rockwell
agrees, but I could tell Your Honor what I believe those
news reports said, and they said that there were
environmental violations. There were some news reports
in June of 1988 about a spill on the pondcrete pads.
Not a single one of the news reports about the spill on
the pondcrete pads described at all any false claim or
false statement, and neither did the agents' search
warrant affidavit.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So you're saying that the
original source of the information was published?
MS. VULLO: I don't believe that that's the
appropriate test. It's not before this Court, but I
believe that the direct and independent knowledge
requirement is information on which the allegations are
based, and the allegations refer to Mr. Stone's
allegations at the commencement of the action. After
all, it's a jurisdictional provision, and it should be
determined at the outset of the action.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
the allegations referred to the public disclosure. It
talks about public disclosure of allegations, and then
says he has to have direct and independent knowledge of
the allegations. So I would assume that's the important
linkage.
MS. VULLO: Mr. Chief Justice, there is a
split in the circuits on that issue. The issue was not
decided by the Court of Appeals and as I understand even
Rockwell's position, that is not Rockwell's position,
that Rockwell's position is like our position, that it's
information in the allegations of the complaint.
But I would submit that that would make no
difference in this case because Mr. Stone's knowledge is
direct and independent of the information in his
complaint as well as the information in the public
disclosure. And what is important is that Rockwell is
asking this Court to adopt the quick trigger that the
Court of Appeals adopted because that was the Tenth
Circuit's law on public disclosure. Yet in this case,
say that Mr. Stone's direct and independent knowledge
has to be very, very specific. It has to be of the
particular false statements, and that would eviscerate
the entire original source rule.
And if I could just get to the point of the
jurisdictional issue and why Rockwell's position as to
the trial evidence is wrong, it's wrong for two reasons.
The first is that the statute speaks in terms of
allegations. It does not speak in terms of evidence.
In fact, in the provision E.2, which is a provision
regarding bringing claims against members of the
judiciary and members of Congress, Congress said
information or evidence, but in this provision E.4,
Congress only said information. So looking at the trial
evidence would be wrong by virtue of the plain language
of the statute.
It also would be wrong as, Mr. Chief
Justice, you pointed out. Since 1824, I believe this
Court has held that jurisdiction is determined at the
time of commencement as of the state of things at that
time. And as, Justice Ginsburg, you pointed out, it
would be an inappropriate rule to say that if the
government decides to refine the allegation, after all,
it is still a concrete allegation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We've also said that
jurisdiction must be maintained throughout the case.
Something like standing. We say standing is examined
throughout the trial. There's an easier standard at the
beginning, and then for the complaint; and then for a
motion to dismiss, a somewhat higher standard; and
finally, if the facts of -- involving standing are
tried, there's the highest standard at the end of the
trial.
I mean, it seems to me jurisdiction has to
be assured throughout.
MS. VULLO: Justice Scalia, I think this is
a jurisdictional provision that Congress created. We're
not talking about the Federal question jurisdictional
statute. But in this provision, just like in the Clean
Water Act in the Walton case, the statute uses the word
allegations. As in that case, the statute used the word
alleged. And the Court held very clearly that you look
at it as of commencement.
Now it might be a different case if we had a
federal question case and the relator or the plaintiff
withdrew the Federal claim. Then there would be a loss
of jurisdiction. Here of course, the amended complaint
satisfied jurisdiction when the government adopted the
relator's claim.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Vullo.
Mr. Stewart?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT UNITED STATES
MR. STEWART: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
One of the features of this case that may
appear anomalous is the fact that the government is
aligned with Stone. That is, it's Rockwell's position
that the entire recovery in this case should go to the
United States. It is Stone's position that the recovery
should be shared with the relator, and the government
agrees with Stone.
It might be natural for the Court to wonder,
why would it be in the government's interest to advocate
that a share of the money damages in this case should be
given to a private party. And the reason is that the
government believes that there are three systemic
government interests that are implicated by this case
and that would be endangered if Rockwell's position
prevailed.
First, in our view, Stone is precisely the
type of relator that Congress intended to encourage.
Stone was somebody who had substantial firsthand
knowledge of Rockwell's environmental practices and of
its billing practices, and moreover, Stone was somebody
who didn't conceal his information from the government.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's all very nice,
but Congress didn't leave it up to you to decide who
ought to get rewarded or not. It laid down some textual
conditions in the statute. And unless they are complied
with, the fact that you think this is the kind of person
you think ought to get the money is really totally
irrelevant.
MR. STEWART: We agree. And as to Stone's
original complaint, the statute frames the inquiry as
whether Stone has direct and independent knowledge of
the information on which the allegations were based.
And we agree with Rockwell and with Stone that that
refers to the allegations in his complaint.
Now the allegations were fairly generalized.
They didn't refer specifically to pondcrete, and they
covered a wide range of time, from 1980 through to the
present, which was 1989 as of the filing of the
complaint. Stone subsequently submitted a lengthy
affidavit in which he explained what led him to the
conclusion that Rockwell was engaged in a systematic
practice of violating the environmental laws and
misrepresenting the nature of its compliance to the
government. That information --
JUSTICE ALITO: What if the defect that he
identified turns out to be entirely different? What if
there is no dispute, it's completely different from the
defects that led to the false claims on which there were
recovery?
MR. STEWART: I mean, there certainly could
be a situation in which the government intervenes in a
suit but files what can be regarded as a substantially
different claim. For instance, if the government had
intervened in this suit and had claimed that Rockwell's
requests for payment were fraudulent because Rockwell
had misrepresented its compliance with the
anti-discrimination laws, that would be an example of a
fundamentally different fraudulent scheme and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's take this case. Did
the government use any of the evidence that Stone
produced? Did it introduce that affidavit which said
the pipe wasn't working right? Was that part of the
evidence?
MR. STEWART: It didn't introduce the
engineering report. And I do want to focus on --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what else had he
provided beyond -- did you use anything that came from
him?
MR. STEWART: He had provided substantial
information about a pattern of concealment of
environmental violations generally. That at least to
some extent was responsible for an FBI investigation
which uncovered further --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But did you use at trial
anything that he provided you?
MR. STEWART: We proved essentially the
state of affairs that he predicted would occur.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did you use anything he
provided you in order to prove it?
MR. STEWART: I'm not aware of anything
that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, neither am I.
MR. STEWART: But nevertheless, the relator
had direct and independent knowledge of the information
on which his allegations were based.
And I'd like to focus on this question of
the cause of the insolidity of the pondcrete because I
think to regard that as the theory of the government's
liability really reflects a misunderstanding of the
False Claims Act. For purposes of the False Claims Act
counts in this case, it was sufficient for the
government to prove that the pondcrete in fact failed,
leaked hazardous substances into the environment, that
Rockwell was aware that the pondcrete was failing, and
that Rockwell nevertheless continued to represent that
it was in compliance with the environmental laws.
For purposes of proving those allegations,
it was not necessary for the Government to offer any
hypothesis as to why the pondcrete failed. It would
have been sufficient to prove that the pondcrete failed
and that Rockwell knew about it. In fact, I wouldn't
encourage the Court to read the whole trial transcript,
but I think if the Court reads the plaintiff's statement
of claims, which is about 30 pages of the joint appendix
beginning at JA-463, that summarizes the events that
Rockwell -- I mean, I'm sorry, that Stone and the United
States intended to prove at trial, and by far the
predominant focus is on the fact of pondcrete failures
and Rockwell's awareness that they had -- that pondcrete
had failed.
There were a couple of paragraphs in
those 30 pages that alluded to the supposition that the
cause of the failure was inadequate cement content.
There were also isolated references to that theory at
trial. But to characterize that as the theory of
liability I think would be a misconception. The
Government didn't have to persuade the jury one way or
the other as to why the pondcrete failed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How is it possible to say
that he had direct knowledge of events that occurred
after he had left Rockwell? I mean, all of this failure
occurred after he was gone.
MR. STEWART: But again --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not only not because of
this pipe thing that he predicted would cause a failure,
not only it was not because of that. But he was gone.
MR. STEWART: Again, the statute doesn't
require direct and independent knowledge of the fraud.
It requires direct and independent knowledge of the
information on which the allegations were based.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right. And how
would he know except from published report that these
blocks were failing?
MR. STEWART: His basis for making that
prediction was that he believed that the process would
malfunction. He was also aware --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But prediction is not
knowledge. Prediction is not direct knowledge.
MR. STEWART: I think independent of whether
there had every been a public disclosure, it would have
been open to Rockwell to argue in response to the
original complaint that Stone couldn't consistent with
Rule 11 make allegations as to what had happened at the
plant after he left because he no longer had an
evidentiary basis for doing so. Rockwell could have
made that argument, again regardless of whether a public
disclosure had occurred, and the question whether it is
a permissible inference for a plaintiff to say, I saw
them committing systematic environmental violations
while I was there and I inferred that the same thing
would go on after I left -- the question that's a
permissible inference for a plaintiff in a Federal civil
action to make is a question to be decided under the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The public disclosure
provision serves a different purpose entirely. It's
designed for those cases in which the relator has
sufficient information to file a complaint that complies
with the federal rules of similar procedure, but that
information overlaps substantially with information in
the public domain.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And his sufficient
information you assert is his prediction that these
blocks would fail for a reason that turned out not to be
the reason for their failure. That is what you say is
his direct knowledge.
MR. STEWART: That knowledge, but I think
it's also important to recognize that the original
complaint was not focused on pondcrete specifically.
The original complaint alleged more generally that
Rockwell was engaged in widespread environmental safety
and health violations and was consistently
misrepresenting to the Government that it was in
compliance and -- even though it knew that it was not
doing so.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you think relators can
get part of the Government's recovery even where their
initial allegations before the Government intervenes
have nothing whatever to do with the reason the
Government is ultimately giving money? You think they
are still entitled to a piece of the pie?
MR. STEWART: I guess I would -- I would
disagree with the premise that his reasons had nothing
whatever to do with why the Government is getting money.
Again to return to the hypothetical I suggested earlier,
if the Government then filed --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you don't believe that,
then. You think that indeed the reason the Government
was given the money has to be connected with, with his
allegations? Right?
MR. STEWART: It has to be connected with
his allegations. And certainly, if you look at the
theory of liability that prevailed at trial, namely that
pondcrete blocks were leaking hazardous substances into
the environment and Rockwell was nevertheless asking for
Government funds based on misrepresentations that it was
in compliance, if you look at that theory of liability
and then examine Stone's original complaint, clearly
that theory is logically encompassed within the more
generalized --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you mean by
connected? Is it -- I got -- I'm getting the sense that
you think it's enough that he says, look, Rockwell is
just lying to the Government in this area, and you say
well -- what if what if you added a count in your
complaint when you intervene on tax fraud? You found
out also that they didn't pay taxes. Would he be able
to recover for that, because, you know, if they're going
to lie about pondcrete they're going to lie about taxes.
Is that sufficiently connected?
MR. STEWART: No, and I think I would put
that with the hypothetical that I offered about the
Government adding a claim that Rockwell had
misrepresented its compliance with the
antidiscrimination laws. And I think there won't be a
clear dividing line, but I think this is a line that
courts have to draw for other purposes as well.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And it doesn't
matter to you if he just, if he's completely wrong?
Let's say he says -- you have special interrogatories to
the jury and his allegation has always been the
pondcrete's going to fail because you're putting in the
wrong kind of cement. And it turns out it has nothing
to do with that at all. The jury says, no, that's not
the reason it failed, it failed for another reason. Is
that a sufficient connection?
MR. STEWART: I think we would -- I think
there could still be a sufficient connection even if his
reason for thinking the pondcrete failed, they all
turned out to be correct. And again, we would emphasize
that that's particularly so here because the reason for
the pondcrete failure was not an element of the claim.
I mean, imagine if this case had been tried to the jury
and there had been an established rule in place that if
the pondcrete was shown to have failed because of a
defect in the machinery, Stone would get a share, but if
it was shown to have failed because the human operator
added too little cement Stone wouldn't get a share. If
that had been the rule there would have been a clear
potential for disharmony between the Government and the
relator. It would have raised exactly the specter that
Justice Ginsburg alluded to, where the Government
prefers to emphasize one view of the facts rather than
another and the defendant is getting in the way by
suggesting that the relator will be deprived of a share.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Try this hypothetical. The
relator says: I know that they've been cheating the
Government because I, I observed the president of the
company going into a meeting with the chief engineer and
another person, and at that meeting I suspect they were
devising this scheme to defraud the Government.
It turns out there was indeed a scheme to
defraud the Government, but that meeting never occurred.
It wasn't the president of the company who went into the
meeting. It was Charlie Chaplin. And the facts are
totally, totally wrong. Does he get money?
MR. STEWART: Well, I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does he get money just
because he came out with the same charge that the
Government ultimately proves? Simply because he said
the company is guilty of cheating the Government, even
though the facts on which he bases it are entirely
wrong?
MR. STEWART: I mean, I need to know more
about the hypothetical, but my initial reaction is that
that's a complaint that's easily dismissed based on Rule
11, leaving aside the question of any public disclosure.
And I can imagine extreme hypotheticals --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, assume one that just
gets over the line.
MR. STEWART: I think if the complaint just
gets over the line, that is if the evidence in the
relator's possession is just barely good enough to
sustain the allegation of fraud or at least to allow the
suit to go forward, there's no reason to read the public
disclosure --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It turns out to be entirely
wrong. Turns out to be entirely wrong, so that the only
reason he believed this company was defrauding the
Government was absolutely wrong.
MR. STEWART: I think we would still want to
compare the nature of the fraud that the Government
alleged with the nature of the fraud that the relator
alleged. And obviously this is a question in which the
Court is going to have to balance competing interests.
It's possible to come up with hypotheticals in which it
seems as though the relator has no equitable entitlement
to a share. The two things we want to emphasize are,
first, in terms of the way that the lawsuit progresses
even when the Government doesn't intervene, relators
once they file suit, if they are allowed to proceed on
their own, they presumably can take advantage of all of
the rules of civil procedure. And those include the
discovery provisions of the Federal Rules.
And it would obviously be self-defeating to
tell the relator: You can invoke discovery and you can
learn relevant information from the defendant, but if
you didn't know it already you can't use it at trial,
because if you use something that you didn't have direct
and independent knowledge of before the complaint was
filed and it turns out to be persuasive to the jury you
can be kicked for not being an original source.
I don't think Congress can be said to have
had that intention.
Second, in cases where the Government and
the relator intervenes -- where the Government
intervenes in the a relator's suit and the two prosecute
the suit together, we would want the Court to avoid a
rule that would create artificial disincentives to
cooperation between the two plaintiffs. And the idea
that relatively minor variations in factual assertions
that are ultimately not necessary to the establishment
of False Claims Act liability, if those carried the day
then relators in future circumstances would have a
strong disincentive to accede to the Government's
request that one view of the evidence be emphasized
rather than another.
If the Court has nothing, no further
questions --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Explain why it would be a
minor variation if what he has identified as a defect in
the pipe system and what turns out to be the situation
that was covered up is the inadequate cement that caused
the loss?
MR. STEWART: It's a minor variation in the
sense that it's not relevant to the defendant's ultimate
liability. That is, if we had proved that the pondcrete
leaked hazardous substances into the environment and
that Rockwell knew that it was having that effect and
that it nevertheless represented to the Government it
was in compliance, that would be enough to establish the
knowing submission of a false claim even if we had no
idea what was the reason for the pondcrete failure.
And even if Rockwell had taken the most
Herculean measures to produce good pondcrete and had not
departed from standards of care in any respect, if
nevertheless they knew that the pondcrete was in fact
failing despite their best efforts and they represented
that it was succeeding, they would be liable under the
False Claims Act.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question:
Supposing he is the only source of the information
that's publicly disclosed on which precipitated the
filing of the complaint, and after the complaint is
filed discovery reveals other violations of law on which
the Government prevails, but they do not prevail on the
theory of the original complaint. Would he be -- come
within the statute or without? The statute focuses on
the information that gave rise to the suit, not on
what's found by way of discovery.
MR. STEWART: I mean, my instinct would be
that probably he could still recover. I think the
question then would boil down to whether the discovery
responses are themselves public disclosures such that
they would trigger a new original source.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Assuming we only look at
the public information at the time the complaint is
filed.
MR. STEWART: I mean, probably that question
would raise no public disclosure issue to begin with,
because if there had been no -- at least if there had
been no public disclosure of the fraudulent conduct that
was revealed through discovery, there would be no need
for him to satisfy the original source test with respect
to those new allegations.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Stewart.
Ms. Mahoney, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN E. MAHONEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. MAHONEY: I would like to first just
address, the Government's suggested that he could be an
original source because he had knowledge of false
representations and concealments derived throughout his
employment. I just want to emphasize that the Tenth
Circuit did not rely on that theory, said that he did
not have to have knowledge of any fraudulent acts. It
was just enough that he knew something that might be
relevant to the proof of an environmental violation.
And the reason that the Tenth Circuit said that was
because Stone had conceded in his deposition at pages
JA-106 and 112 that he did not know about any false
representations and he did not know whether DOE was
aware of any of the environmental problems.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is your response to
the Government's assertion, which seems to me quite
true, that in order to -- in order to prevail it did not
have to show why these blocks were not solidified?
MS. MAHONEY: I think what --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It just had to show that
they weren't. So it doesn't matter whether they were
using his theory or too little cement. It doesn't
matter.
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, the point is that
Mr. Stone wasn't there when the manufacturing problems
occurred, so he didn't actually have direct knowledge
that pondcrete was leaking. That's the real point.
What they're really saying is that his theory about why
it might leak some day didn't turn out to be important
to the gravamen of the claim. This is a fraud claim.
He didn't know anything about fraud and he couldn't have
known they were leaking at the time, 5 years later
because he wasn't there.
And the statute requires direct knowledge.
The Government's suggestion that somehow Rule 11 will be
the basis on which we can sort out who's an original
source and who's not strikes me as rather odd. First of
all, nothing hardly ever gets dismissed on Rule 11
grounds. And this is a jurisdictional statute that
requires direct knowledge. A relator could read an
indictment and satisfy Rule 10 just by copying the
allegations. Does that count?
I think that direct knowledge means there
can't be undue conjecture. The only thing that he said
he knew, even though it wasn't the gravamen of the
claim, was clearly based upon conjecture, a belief that
in his opinion this pipe would not work.
And then when we get to the trial, there
were 55 witnesses. Stone had not identified a single
one of them as a person with relevant knowledge at the
outset of the case when he answered his interrogatory
responses. In addition, every person -- no person he
identified testified at the case. He identified four
documents that he said were key. None of them were
introduced. He knew nothing about what went to trial.
In addition, I'd like to focus on the
"voluntarily provide". That is a separate ground for
reversal in this case, and would emphasize that the
Tenth Circuit said the engineering order that refers to
removal of sludge and says in my opinion this won't
work, that's all it says -- the Tenth Circuit says
that's fine. The district court made a factual finding
that Stone had not communicated his concerns to the
Government about pondcrete, saltcrete, or spray
irrigation, the three theories issues at issue at trial
here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There were other
documents. He said there were other documents and the
district court said sorry, you came up with that too
late, I'm not going to look at the other documents.
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, what they're
referring to is the affidavit, I think. He filed an
affidavit at the outset of the case when Rockwell filed
the motion to dismiss and then tried to do a new one 10
years later that was rejected.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you
Ms. Mahoney.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:11 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
56:1 32:12,13,18 allow 14:11,19 asked 33:14 barely 48:23
39:16 40:12 48:24 35:17 45:20 10:19 13:12
16:1,2 affirm 24:20 alluded 42:13 assertion 53:11 24:10 26:25
27:20 affirmatively 47:17 assertions 50:11 31:5 32:25
41:16,16 12:22 amended 37:16 assignment 8:2 33:7 34:21
51:15 agent 31:12 amendment 4:9 8:2 39:8 41:11
34:13 8:7 assume 20:7 48:16 54:16
6:1,5,6 agree 31:24 32:4 amount 27:7 35:4 48:19 bases 48:12
7:7 33:1,6 39:5,9 28:7,20 29:3 Assuming 52:6 basis 11:2,4,5
agreed 33:3 amounts 29:14 assured 37:4 13:16,20 14:11
11:22 agreement analysis 13:25 attention 11:21 14:22 16:8,14
24:9 12:18 27:1 19:20 16:15 20:5
33:7 agrees 33:19 analyzed 13:16 Attorney 4:16 21:13 25:15
34:22,24 34:4,7 38:8 anomalous 38:3 5:12 6:16,23 43:10,21 54:6
aha 8:24 answered 54:21 8:13 bears 10:19
6:15 aligned 38:4 46:15 9:14,20 began 17:23
53:2 16:25 19:12 Appeals 24:21 authorize 4:24 26:6 29:6
allegations 3:14 APPEARAN... 5:14 behalf 1:17,18
23:9 11:3 12:10 appendix 25:22 award 3:12 4:24 2:13 3:8 4:17
27:8,12 13:11,12 15:18 25:24 26:9,18 5:14 6:7 9:16 4:18,21 6:10
16:14 17:4 30:1,24 32:11 awards 32:10 10:12 21:5,6
55:1 24:10 27:15 applicable 17:14 41:6,20 43:12 52:20
32:14 34:21,22 35:1 34:18 awareness 42:10 believe 34:7,17
41:11,23 43:17 B believed 43:11
45:15,17 52:15 6:19 6:7,18 8:11 believes 38:13
allege 13:2 2:2,5,8,11 3:4 back 14:10 better 32:4
43:9 categories 34:1 35:6 36:11 coming 29:22 conceded 18:23
45:19 cause 26:24 37:20,25 46:1 commencement 18:25 19:5
27:18 41:13 46:18 47:24 34:22 36:14 53:6
8:14 20:9 cement 18:10,18 32:5,6,9 33:16 committing conclusion 7:13
19:2,4,7 23:9 53:1,5 55:4,6 43:25 39:17
26:12,17 27:7 Circuit's 35:19 55:8 conditions 39:1
5:2,11 29:2,3,12,14 50:14 47:24 48:4,11 25:13,14 52:12
6:5,16 29:21 42:14 civil 44:3,5 49:4 Congress 36:6,6
7:7 46:23 47:13 49:18 compare 49:7 36:8 37:6
8:20 50:23 53:17 claim 4:4,8,16 competing 22:6 38:18,24 50:3
19:21 central 30:12 4:18,19,21 49:10 conjecture
24:8 certain 11:13,25 10:12,13 13:16 complaint 8:15 54:14,16
certification 18:1 19:21 43:18 44:8,19 consequences
certifications 23:18 24:25 46:6 48:16,21 consider 32:7
14:24 characterize 54:16 compliance 5:15 6:11
42:16 claimed 22:20 12:18,23 14:3 44:22
charge 48:9 28:9 40:5 17:14 39:19 constant 29:22
22:18 Charlie 48:5 claims 15:22 40:7 41:22 contained 27:3
23:12 cheating 47:22 16:8 17:10 44:24 45:22 34:5
26:7 48:11 21:5 27:20 46:14 51:6 containers
35:13 chemical 11:13 36:5 39:24 complied 39:1 11:16 18:10
36:20 27:1 41:16,16 42:5 complies 44:8 content 29:2,22
chief 3:3,9 13:9 50:13 51:15 comport 19:24 42:14
14:18 15:8 Clean 37:8 conceal 38:22 continued 41:21
41:17 16:21,24 17:13 clear 12:17 concealing continuing 12:5
54:21,23 17:16 19:9,22 46:16 47:14 25:11 controls 9:16
criminal 25:10 53:6 disagree 45:8 dollars 14:14
cutting 27:7 28:8 30:10 23:18,20 24:1 drops 4:6 7:6
8:5,16 6:3 9:12,19 16:22 17:17 34:1 35:1,2,16
19:5 damages 14:5 18:13 19:12,16 35:19 43:16,23 E
28:21 38:11 25:25 31:1,5,5 44:5 48:17 e 1:16 2:1,3,12
31:17 day 50:13 53:24 designed 44:7 49:1 52:10,12 3:1,1,7 6:20
47:5 dealing 6:13 despite 51:13 disclosures 52:19
21:7 decide 38:24 deteriorate 52:4 45:10
defeat 7:13 27:18 34:24 47:15 elects 5:19
47:11 50:21 determines 25:1 50:15 emphasis 10:19
6:12 7:22 18:3 25:25 differ 14:6 25:21 50:9 47:18 49:13
13:14 27:14 difference 35:13 dismiss 10:5 52:25 55:3
16:3,17 defects 7:23 different 6:1 36:24 55:19 emphasized
39:24 14:4,4,22 20:4 dismissed 16:19 50:16
33:11 defendant 47:19 29:13,14 31:5 48:16 54:8 employees 23:24
35:8,17 49:22 37:13 39:22,23 dismissing employment
36:13 defendant's 40:4,9 44:6 16:18 52:25
38:1,9 51:1 differentiates dispute 39:23 encompassed
49:10 definitely 24:7 5:10 disqualifies 45:24
55:7 definition 3:16 differently 32:4 22:15 encourage 38:18
defraud 11:12 direct 10:18 district 55:7,14 42:3
21:9 33:3 defrauding 49:4 20:14,17 26:8 document 30:24 38:15
demonstrated 30:21 31:14,18 32:7,9 engaged 39:17
39:13 departed 51:11 35:20 39:7 32:10 54:24 engineer 47:24
Department 41:10 42:21 55:13,13,15 engineering
40:16 evidence 23:5 47:10,12 55:7 29:19 30:9
28:2,4 29:7,25 failing 19:3 first 13:17 22:7 Freibach's 26:8
50:16 failure 42:14,22 38:17 49:14 fully 25:4,6
48:12 43:21 47:7 51:8 firsthand 25:9 40:9
eviscerate 35:22 failures 42:9 38:19 funds 45:21
14:15 examine 14:21 false 11:7 14:2,5 five 14:4,14 50:18
45:23 17:10 27:20 22:21 future 50:14
45:6 examined 36:21 34:12,13 35:22 fix 18:9 31:4
40:8 50:13 51:7,15 27:4 G 3:1
41:19 Excuse 21:13 falsified 24:11 41:12 42:9 general 1:21
51:3 expansive 7:8 falsity 13:19,21 55:1 4:16 5:12 6:16
34:9 50:20 far 42:8 focuses 51:23 33:15
39:18 explained 39:16 FBI 31:11 32:18 follow 28:16 generalized
41:22 extent 40:23 33:21 40:23 followed 28:11 39:11 45:25
44:21 extreme 7:20 FCA 14:8 29:5,6,12 generally 40:22
48:18 features 38:2 following 11:18 44:20
18:2,7,17 20:3 file 8:22 14:13 forward 23:9 given 3:12 38:12
38:3 39:2 50:1 51:20 51:25 giving 45:5
facts 19:20,24 40:3 fraud 11:14 13:1 38:5 44:2
factual 11:2,3,4 51:19 31:3 43:4 46:6 going 16:22 18:8
16:15 50:11 find 3:14 17:1 53:25 54:1 26:5 31:4,4
fail 44:14 46:22 finding 55:7 12:4,8 14:1 47:24 49:10
42:1,11,19 fine 18:18 19:4,6 53:2 good 22:9,11,25
handled 4:3 ideally 22:4 information 21:23 46:6
5:5,22,23 22:19 43:19 18:14 21:10,12 16:9 20:12,17 intervened 8:25
8:23 happens 19:8 21:15,19 39:22 23:1 25:11 40:5
11:12,21 hard 12:14,15 50:21 54:19,23 30:19 31:9,14 intervenes 5:22
19:3 hazardous 41:19 54:23 31:15,25 32:5 6:25 8:23 10:8
20:1 45:19 51:3 identifies 11:2 32:8,16,25 21:4 40:2 45:3
21:4 health 12:24 identify 16:12 33:8 34:16,20 50:6,7
22:4,5 44:22 imagine 47:8 35:11,14,15 intervention
24:5,21 hear 3:3 48:18 36:7,8 38:22 7:23
25:3,15 held 3:12 10:17 Immunities 39:8,20 40:21 introduce 40:12
30:20 36:13 37:11 15:20 41:10 43:6 40:15
31:3 Herculean implausible 44:8,10,10,13 introduced 30:1
32:1,11 51:10 10:1 49:22 51:17,24 30:6 54:25
36:17 hide 16:8 implicated 52:7 investigates
38:3,7 higher 36:24 38:14 initial 45:3 19:14
highest 37:1 important 24:22 48:15 investigation
40:2,4 highlights 23:2 26:2,13 27:16 initiated 5:20 33:10 40:23
41:18,24 honest 31:9 33:5,10 35:4 inquiries 15:2 invoke 49:21
44:23 Honor 3:22 4:14 35:16 44:18 inquiry 39:6 involves 15:25
4:23 5:9,16 53:24 insolid 27:21,24 involving 36:25
46:4,13 7:17 8:16 9:5 improper 11:19 29:9,17 irrelevant 39:4
9:11 11:24 inadequate insolidity 27:19 irrigation 55:10
12:7 13:14 42:14 50:23 27:25 41:13 isolated 42:15
50:5 14:25 15:11 inappropriate inspections issue 8:1 9:15,18
51:5,21 16:20,23 17:5 36:16 26:11 9:24 10:16
17:24 18:21 include 49:18 instable 29:9 13:7 15:18
7:16,23 23:4,16 24:7 29:22 14:3 15:21 35:7,7,25
22:8 25:2 28:1 29:18 inconsistent 16:13 40:4 52:10 55:10
38:10 30:11,14 31:17 23:6 instinct 52:1 issues 55:10
45:2 32:2,17 34:7 independent intended 24:24
52:22 53:19 55:16 10:18 11:9 38:18 42:8 J
54:5 huge 29:1 30:21 31:15,18 intention 50:4 JA 24:11 31:25
hypothesis 41:10 43:4,5 38:14 49:10 JA-189 11:1
hypotheticals 29:13 11:1 15:7 42:5
10:11 45:1,12 46:1 14:12 28:7,13,15,20 maintained
16:4 46:18 47:17,21 28:24 29:1,8 36:20
37:3 48:8,19 49:2 L 30:8 major 8:24
50:20 51:16 L 1:20 2:9 37:23 litigated 14:8 making 13:4,5
9:22 14:23 53:15 55:12,22 language 5:5,9 little 22:1,19 28:19 43:10
31:21 6:3 36:9 28:4,6 47:13 MALCOLM
35:25 K late 55:15 53:17 1:20 2:9 37:23
54:9 Kennedy 11:11 Laughter 21:17 logical 7:12 malfunction
20:25 key 11:25 20:14 laws 14:3 17:14 long 4:11 7:4,5,5 manager 27:12
23:7 54:24 39:18 40:8 19:6 manner 25:14
30:6,8,9 kicked 50:2 41:22 46:15 longer 43:20 26:4
42:18 kind 12:7 28:9 lawsuit 19:14 look 4:23 5:9 6:2 manufacturing
47:8 39:2 46:23 49:14 6:3,20 10:25 53:20
kinds 5:11 6:15 lead 26:5 14:19 16:11,16 March 11:8
4:10 22:20,23 25:15 51:3 46:3 52:6 matter 1:12
5:4,18,25 42:2 44:24 leaking 18:6 55:15 10:23 46:19
8:13 9:3 51:4,12 53:3 23:23 45:19 looked 21:11 53:16,18 56:1
11:11 13:9 54:15,25 53:22 54:2 looking 15:14 MAUREEN
14:18 know 7:19 8:1 learn 49:22 36:8 1:16 2:3,12 3:7
16:21,24 12:8,25 14:13 leave 38:24 lose 8:18 52:19
18:16 17:11 18:12 leaving 48:17 loss 37:15 50:24 mean 10:11
19:9,22 21:22 22:14,20 led 39:16,24 lot 31:1 13:18,18,22
21:12,15 31:3 43:8 46:8 left 10:24,24 lying 27:21 46:4 16:25 18:8
22:2 47:22 48:14 11:8 12:9,19 19:11 22:10
24:3 49:23 53:7,8 16:16 17:1 M 27:5 31:2 37:3
25:10 54:1 19:8 42:22 machinery 40:1 42:7,22
26:19 knowing 11:5 43:20 44:2 47:11 46:1 47:8
51:7 legislation 19:10 Mahoney 1:16 48:14 52:1,9
29:5 knowledge lengthy 39:15 2:3,12 3:6,7,9 means 7:9 15:12
10:18 11:9 let's 14:3 20:7 3:17,22 4:2,12 26:22 54:13
12:2 20:10,12 27:13 40:10 4:14 5:8,24 6:2 measure 23:11
20:14,17 25:8 46:20 7:17,21 8:16 measured 10:21
30:21 31:18 level 33:12 9:5,10 11:24 measures 51:10
33:2,6 34:19 35:3,13 liability 41:15 13:14,23 14:25 meeting 47:24
35:20 38:20 42:17 45:18,22 15:11 16:23 47:25 48:3,5
39:7 41:10 50:13 51:2 17:5,15,18 meetings 32:13
36:12,15 42:21 43:4,5 liable 51:14 18:20,24 19:18 32:18
37:5,20 43:14,14 44:16 lie 46:9,9 20:3,20 21:13 members 36:5,6
38:23 44:17 49:25 limitations 6:13 21:18,21 22:13 mentioned 34:1
40:10,17 52:23 53:2,21 line 46:16,16 23:16,19 24:6 mere 18:2,7
41:4,8 54:4,10,13,20 48:20,22 24:14 52:18,19 20:3
43:7 known 54:2 linkage 35:5 52:21 53:14,19 met 31:11
44:12 knows 11:16 liquid 26:5 27:2 55:16,23 metal 18:10
31:11 48:3 original 3:13,15 particularly pipe 17:8 18:3,8
41:9,21 45:20 7:5,14 9:2,23 party 7:5 38:12 25:16,17 40:13
52:5,15 55:19 23:3,12 24:22 40:21 piping 26:22
34:11 34:16 35:23 14:5 place 11:14,15
24:4,7 33:8,9 44:18,20 45:23 46:7 placed 30:13
46:14 nice 38:23 52:5,14,23 penalized 22:9 plaintiff 7:6,14
44:23 7:6 ought 38:25 percent 14:17 37:14 43:24
notion 7:4,8,11 outcome 15:12 perfect 8:20 plaintiffs 50:10
10:3 11:13 O 2:1 3:1 15:3,23 16:18 performance plant 11:6 12:14
39:3 observed 47:23 22:18 23:11 24:10 16:16 43:20
48:6 obviously 49:9 34:24 54:21 period 18:18 pleading 18:5
49:20 55:18 27:10 pleadings 4:9
36:24 occurred 10:23 14:14 43:24 44:3 24:19 38:1
16:16 42:21,23 overlaps 44:10 person 5:20 6:5 pled 8:10
49:7,8 once 10:1 22:25 31:25 52:20 pondcrete 3:13
49:16 53:6 1:17 2:4,13 3:8 12:9,11,14,15
50:12 operator 47:12 paradigm 25:8 petitioner's 16:14 17:11,17
52:13 55:5 42:12 phrase 6:21 32:4 19:13 23:8,22
3:7 24:16 part 8:1 40:13 7:11 29:14,17 34:10
34:13 order 6:7 10:20 participate 10:5 piece 22:1 23:1 41:13,18,20,25
15:6 41:5 particular 14:20 45:6 42:1,9,10,19
45:19 prerequisite prompted 19:14 puts 11:14,14 28:22 38:12
47:4,7,10 14:24 prong 31:8 putting 46:22 44:14,15 45:4
present 27:2,2 32:24 p.m 55:25 45:13 46:25,25
55:9 39:14 proof 53:4 47:4,6 48:25
48:4 prosecute 50:7 question 3:18 reasonable 12:3
29:23 presumably 30:16 41:5,18 23:15 29:25 45:8
51:21 53:12 41:2 51:2 37:14 41:12 receives 20:2
38:4,6 prevailed 23:18 proves 48:10 43:23 44:2,4 recognize 44:18
38:16 45:18 provide 30:22 48:17 49:9 recognizes
49:11 probably 52:2,9 41:5 quite 53:11 52:2
problems 17:21 25:1 33:4 34:3 R 3:1 21:24 25:1,3
39:18 53:9,20 37:6,8 44:6 raise 52:10 45:2
44:5,9 49:18 12:24 49:19 range 10:4 23:25
49:16 21:24 23:17,19 28:10,11 29:11 references 42:15
24:5 33:13,15,19 18:4 refers 39:10
6:4,25 9:14 35:19 43:16,22 reaction 48:15 refine 36:17
process 26:22 48:25 52:4,7 29:25 42:3 regard 41:14
43:1 processes 27:1 publicly 33:22 reads 3:21 42:4 regarding 36:5
produced 18:19 published 34:16 really 5:4,16 rejected 55:20
40:12 43:8 6:19 8:10 9:8 relationship
17:23 27:14 24:23 44:6 33:17 39:3 relatively 50:11
28:5,6,9
8:11,22 30:15 32:3,15 34:25 26:21 31:1 9:13,17,19,24
10:1,6,13 requirement 37:20 46:1,18 34:2 35:3 46:3 20:1,24,25
14:11 34:20 52:16 55:22 46:20,24 47:22 21:8,22 25:2
20:23,25 requirements Rockwell 1:3 55:5,6,6 38:11 47:11,13
3:16 3:4 7:18 12:14 Scalia 3:17,24 47:20 49:13
requires 4:25 12:22 17:7 4:10,13 5:4,18 shared 38:7
31:8 30:20 31:8 23:8 25:9,11 5:25 7:2,19 9:3 shift 16:9
38:7,18 43:5 54:4,10 33:11 34:6 9:7 13:21 shipping 12:16
44:7 respect 7:24 35:16 39:9,17 18:16,22 21:20 show 15:5,8
17:20,21,25 40:6 41:20,21 25:12,20 26:19 18:4 53:13,15
32:8 51:11 42:2,7,22 27:10,16,23 shown 47:10,12
54:10 52:14 43:17,21 44:21 29:24 30:5,12 similar 44:9
49:15 1:19,22 2:7,10 51:4,9 55:18 37:5 38:23 simply 8:22 16:8
24:17 37:24 Rockwell's 11:5 40:10,17,25 28:9,14,16
50:7 53:10 38:4,15,20 42:25 43:7,13 single 10:23
53:4 responsible route 22:12 scheme 40:9 14:20,23 19:23
40:23 rule 8:17,17 48:1,2 19:25 40:2
result 26:23 36:16 43:19 search 33:22 six 25:9
resulted 29:9 50:9 54:5,8,11 second 4:19 50:5 26:3,11,16,22
return 45:10 49:18,19 4:20,24 5:1,14 28:13,15,20,23
right 5:21,23 8:4 44:21 sections 5:10 solidified 53:13
33:1,8 40:13 satisfied 25:6 seeking 33:18 38:21
53:8 rings 11:20 52:14 54:11 49:20 55:14
51:5,13 ROBERTS 3:3 saw 43:24 sense 8:21 10:6 source 3:13,15
43:4 19:22 20:16 says 3:25 4:3 55:2 22:16,17 23:3
29:2,3 30:17 31:13,23 13:11 20:6,22 share 3:12 9:12 30:6 33:3
35:23 statute 3:21,23 34:21 35:13,20 suggestion 54:5 35:18 52:25
51:17 6:11,13 8:19 38:6 39:5 suggests 5:22 53:5 55:4,6
9:16 10:6,10 45:23 suit 11:22 40:3,5 tenure 17:23
10:15 13:10 stopped 23:9 48:25 49:16 26:15
19:18 20:6 stored 23:22 summarizes terminated 17:2
39:12 43:3 51:23,23 study 26:21 supposition 54:23
54:4,9 subject 12:17 42:13 testify 30:3
28:10,10 33:24 34:4,15 suboptimal 17:8 swallow 7:4 52:16 55:21,22
33:11 51:16 52:6 subsection 6:5,7 system 18:18 theories 22:7,24
37:1 Stewart 1:20 2:9 6:8,16,17,20 19:6 25:17,25 55:10
36:21,21 40:1,15,20 39:15 39:17 43:25 15:25 16:2,4
41:2,6,9 42:24 substances 27:4 systemic 38:13 22:1,2,5,8,17
46:11 47:2 substantial 12:1 T 1:18 2:1,1,6 41:14 42:15,16
34:13 Stone 1:19 2:7 40:3 44:10 taken 28:7 51:9 thing 7:15 11:18
3:12 9:16 substantive 9:22 takes 21:7 14:15 16:19
25:7,21 28:25 51:14 talking 37:7 43:1 44:1
2:10 3:5 32:10 38:4,8 sufficient 41:17 35:2 things 18:11
38:17,19,21 42:1 44:8,12 tax 46:6 20:14 31:2
5:2,11 39:7,9,15 47:1,3 taxes 46:7,9 36:14 49:13
7:7,9 40:11 42:7 sufficiently technically 8:9 think 4:2,7 5:5,8
8:20 9:15 43:18 47:11,13 46:10 tell 34:7 49:21 7:22 8:8,17,21
17:11 53:6,20 54:19 suggested 26:22 Tenth 3:11 9:5 11:25
24:25 55:8 45:10 52:22 10:17 13:3 15:13,19 18:20
37:24 Stone's 9:25 suggesting 20:14 30:23 18:24 19:5
42:8 32:12 33:23 19:23 47:20 32:5,6,9 33:16 21:7,18 22:15
29:7 53:12 40:11,18,25 37:5,21 witnesses 28:2
39:2,3 truly 29:16 41:4 49:23,24 29:1 54:19
42:4,17 truthful 31:9 uses 6:11 8:19 W wonder 38:9
44:17 Try 47:21 37:9 wait 5:18 word 37:9,10
46:3 Tuesday 1:10 U.S.C 8:7 Walton 37:9 words 5:1 6:6
turn 10:16 53:24 want 22:6 23:5 13:24 14:1
48:7,21 turned 44:14 V 31:23 40:16 20:21 28:12
50:3 52:2 47:5 v 1:6 49:6,13 50:8 work 16:22 17:2
54:13 turns 15:17 validity 17:3 52:25 19:12,13,16
39:22 46:23 variability wants 20:9 31:1,2 54:17
two 5:10 6:15 variance 22:5 Washington 1:9 working 19:6
36:1 49:13 26:16 28:7,13 wasn't 12:15,16 worse 30:17
type 4:19 38:18 50:21,25 30:15 40:13 18:3 42:2
23:13 U 29:8 50:11 54:3,15 written 9:13
39:13 ultimate 51:1 variety 18:9 wasted 8:15 19:19
54:2 ultimately 23:18 verdict 27:18 wastes 26:25 wrong 3:18 15:4
48:10 50:12 view 38:17 Water 37:9 36:1,1,9,11
40:24 viewed 4:7 6:14 7:11 9:12 48:13 49:3,3,5
42:3 25:17 30:23 violation 11:6 16:7 19:16,19 x 1:2,8
Unfortunately violations 12:11 ways 18:9 21:10 Yeah 26:19
19:6 United 1:1,7,13 43:25 44:22 23:11 25:19 years 11:17 13:5
26:7,9 1:22 2:10 3:5 51:20 48:4 54:25 13:7 22:21
30:2,4 4:6,8,11,17,18 virtue 36:9 weren't 9:18 25:9 54:2
37:2 4:22 5:2,11 voluntarily 12:13 17:10 55:20
42:3,8 6:18,25 7:7,9 30:22 31:8 19:1 53:16 York 1:18
45:18 7:12 8:20 9:15 55:2 we'll 19:24
17:11 Vullo 1:18 2:6 we're 7:20 37:6 0
54:18,25
24:25 24:15,16,18 We've 36:19 05-1272 1:6 3:4
38:6 42:7 28:1,21 29:10 widely 23:21
5:3 9:19
11:17 54:11
52:5 unusual 14:23 31:17 32:2,6 44:21
43:19 48:17
18:22 27:13 31:4 34:17 35:6 withdrew 37:15
1:14 3:2
53:7 5
15:24 5 1:10 13:4,7
55:25 54:2
24:11 500 28:2
8:7 52 2:13
25:23 522 26:9,18
25:23 26:20 55 28:2 54:19
25:21 6
32:19 605 30:24 31:25
32:20
36:12 9
23:20 987 26:10,17
11:1
39:13
17:24 23:8
11:8 32:19
11:7 12:10
11:15
34:10
11:7 39:14
26:16
1:10
2:7
32:11
32:11
14:16 21:23
29:21
8:6
25:23
25:24
2:4 5:19,19
42:5,13
29:21
26:16
2:10
4:15
4:20
25:1
6:20 52:18
33:7 34:1
