IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MICROSOFT CORPORATION, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 05-1056
AT&T CORP. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, February 21, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:14 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
DARYL JOSEFFER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioner.
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DARYL JOSEFFER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting Petitioner 16
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
[10:14 a.m.]
JUSTICE STEVENS: We'll hear argument now in
No. 05-1056, Microsoft against AT&T.
Mr. Olson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. OLSON: Thank you, Justice Stevens. May
it please the Court:
The limited monopoly granted by U.S. patent
laws protects against the making, using or selling a
patented invention within the United States. Section
271(f) also makes it an infringement to make components
of a patented invention within the United States and
then simply ship them abroad for reassembly.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Olson, before you get
into the merits I have a question, a preliminary
question. I understand from AT&T's brief that there has
been a stipulation entered into between the parties
after the judgment below which preserved Microsoft's
right to appeal and prescribed different dollar amounts
that Microsoft must pay AT&T depending on the outcome of
the appeal. Does that raise any, any muteness problem?
Can you sort of wager on the outcome of an appeal that
way?
MR. OLSON: No, I don't believe so, Justice
Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, suppose two parties
just, you know, parties that otherwise do not have a
case or controversy, bet each other that the district
court will come out one way or the other way in, in a
trumped-up suit. Does that create a standing --
MR. OLSON: This is by no means a trumped-up
suit. It's a very serious suit. The outcome, the
judgment, the amount of damages that must be paid is not
a matter of wager. It depends upon the decision of a
matter of law of an interpretation of a statute of the
United States.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you could say the
same thing in the hypothetical I gave. It is a matter
of wager, which way the Court will come out.
MR. OLSON: This is an entirely legitimate,
I submit, means by which parties may preserve a legal
issue depending upon how a legal question is decided.
The only thing that's been resolved is the amount that
will be paid as damages depending upon the outcome of
the appeal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know of any, any
precedent for that?
MR. OLSON: It seems to me, Justice Scalia,
that it happens frequently, especially in criminal cases
where there is -- someone pleads guilty in and
preserving a right to appeal a certain issue. I don't
have a case to cite to you but it strikes me as quite
understandable that the parties might agree if the
outcome of the legal question that the judge might
decide is going to be X, then the consequence will be a
liability for Y. If it's -- if it's of the opposite
outcome, the outcome will be different. That's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the amount were
trivial and you just wanted to get a resolution of this
question?
MR. OLSON: Well, I think that if the
amount --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then there would be a case
with a controversy problem, I should think.
MR. OLSON: I don't know what the Court
might mean by the word trivial, Justice Kennedy, but
this is a very significant major amount involved in this
case. There is no question that the parties are very
serious. It's a very significant legal question with
respect to the interpretation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's so, but is there a
lot of money involved depending on whether you win or
lose?
MR. OLSON: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. OLSON: In this case, notwithstanding
the limitation of in Section 271(f) that the components,
there's -- liability of the components are created here,
and reassemble the broad. The Federal Circuit held that
foreign made tangible reproductions of computer
operating code installed in foreign-made computers may
be components which are deemed or essentially supplied
from the United States, because copying is part and
parcel of software distribution, and thus subsumed in
the act of supplying. Under this ruling, U.S. companies
may be held liable for patent infringement whenever
their products are copied or replicated abroad. This --
the court of appeals decision and the position of
Respondents requires reworking several words in the
statute.
The statute says supplied from the United
States. The court of appeals said, well, it might be
deemed supplied from the United States after it's copied
abroad. The Respondent takes the words "such
components" in the statute and reads them as not the
same components.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Olson, isn't one of
the questions whether the software is really being
copied when it's transferred from the golden disk to the
new manufacturer, or whether it's actually being
supplied?
MR. OLSON: It is being copied. There isn't
any question that it's being copied, Justice Stevens.
The stipulation which is in pages 44-A through 47-A of
the petition appendix contains the words -- this is
words to which respondent stipulated -- foreign-made
copies replicated object code, foreign manufactured
copies, foreign replicated object code. What happens,
Justice Stevens, is that the golden master of the disk
which contains the physical manifestation of the object
code is read by a machine somewhere outside the United
States, looked at and then copied onto another physical
medium, either a hard drive or a disk. Many hard
drives, many disks. Those foreign replicated physical
tangible copies are then installed in computers and they
become components of those computers.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is the master disk a
component?
MR. OLSON: The master -- well, AT&T has
taken two positions on that. We --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's your position?
MR. OLSON: Our position is that it's not a
component of the final product computers that are made
abroad. What is a component is a replication, a copy of
a new hard drive or a new disk that's made a part of
those computers which, without which --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just the disk but not the
information on the disk is the component.
MR. OLSON: The information on the disk is
of no use to the computer unless it's made into a
physical machine readable document -- object.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That -- Mr. Olson, that
is the position of AT&T as I understand it, that what
you call the object code appears in the -- in the
computer that it's -- that is what is sent, along with
the master disk, and the object code is the critical
component, according to AT&T. In fact, wasn't that the
first question that you raised, whether digital software
code, an intangible sequence of 1's and 0's may be
considered a component of a patent, patented invention?
MR. OLSON: If I understand your question,
Justice Ginsburg, let me answer it this way. AT&T has
taken two positions. The most recent position is that
it's the intangible object code, the series of 1's and
0's, or instructions to a computer switch to be on or
off, that is a component. They also took a position
earlier in the case and which is referred to in the
stipulation that it was the golden master, the physical
manifestation on the -- on a master disk that went
abroad that was the component.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I still would like to
know your position. The golden disk is or is not a
component?
MR. OLSON: It is not a component --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But copies of the golden
disk are or are not components?
MR. OLSON: The copies, the physical
manifestation on a hard drive --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Physical manifestation?
MR. OLSON: Our components of the foreign
manufactured computers. Those components are not
supplied from --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose if you could, if
you made 99 copies, those would be 99 components. Then
if you used -- if you're going to make 100 machines. If
you used for your disk the master disk for the last
copy, then that would have been -- that would -- then
the master disk would be a copy, a component of the last
machine.
MR. OLSON: If -- well, I think, if I
understand your question, if you make -- and it depends
upon where you make it, where you transfer --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You make them abroad.
MR. OLSON: If you make it abroad, that --
and it's -- that is where the component is supplied
from. Copies are made abroad. There's no question
about that and --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But if the disk, if the
golden disk itself after they finish the copies, were
used --
MR. OLSON: If the physical --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- in a hardware, then
that would be a component.
MR. OLSON: If that physical golden disk
were actually put into a computer and used without more.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, I'm a little
confused, because I thought the golden disk was just one
method of getting the software into the new computers.
And I thought it was the software which was arguably the
component, not any physical manifestation.
MR. OLSON: Well, that's why I said AT&T has
taken two positions. Here's the position that they took
in their brief before the court of appeals. Three
decades of patent jurisprudence have authoritatively
recognized software to be a physical and structural
component of patented machines. The problem, Justice
Stevens --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But do you -- what is your
view on whether or not software is a component?
MR. OLSON: The -- if I may answer that by
saying that people use the word "software" in two
different ways. One of which, they use it as the
intangible series of 1's and 0's. We submit that the
correct way to understand the word "software" is the
physical manifestation of that what is called source
code, which is made into object code, which is made into
machine readable code.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or at least the correct way
to understand component.
MR. OLSON: It is the correct way to
understand the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And the component then
would be either a disk which is put into a computer or
the portion of the hard drive to which the code is
transferred.
MR. OLSON: Yes. As I understand it,
Justice Souter, and I think the stipulations make this
clear, there's a reference in the stipulations to
encoded transmissions but there's a -- but the parties
also agree that's the same process as the golden disk.
The golden disk is sent abroad. That is read by a
machine and then the machine understands -- it's almost
as if you were to read physically any other type of
document, read it to a machine. The machine understands
what is said, puts it into a physical manifestation on a
disk or on a hard drive. Many copies are made in that
fashion. They are installed in computers made abroad,
sold to foreign purchasers.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So are you saying that
neither the source code nor the compilation are a
component?
MR. OLSON: Of the foreign? The language of
the statute is the foreign manufactured product. Those
are the computers that are sold abroad. It is our
position that the only components that are in issue in
this case are the physical manifestations of the object
code on a hard drive or on a disk.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that neither the source
code nor the compilation are a component, save as, the
compilation is put on a disk?
MR. OLSON: That's correct. And the -- the
thing that's on the disk in the foreign --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That seems odd. I mean,
Microsoft doesn't say please buy our disk because it's
the prettiest disk in the business.
MR. OLSON: Justice Kennedy --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It says buy our program
because the program means something.
MR. OLSON: But the program is nothing until
made into a physical manifestation that can be made by
the computer.
JUSTICE STEVENS: What is patented? Is the
physical object patented or is the software patented?
MR. OLSON: The AT&T patent --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right.
MR. OLSON: The '580 patent is a program, as
I understand it, that's married to a computer, has to be
married to a computer in order to be patented.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't patent, you know,
on-off, on-off code in the abstract, can you?
MR. OLSON: That's correct, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There needs to be a device.
MR. OLSON: An idea or a principle, two plus
two equals four can't be patented. It has to be put
together with a machine and made into a usable device.
The bind that AT&T is in here is that the components
that make the machines run that are produced abroad are
not supplied from the United States. They are made in
Belgium or Frankfurt or something.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That depends on what you
consider the component. They define component as
including the, what you've been calling the abstract.
MR. OLSON: They have attempted, Justice
Ginsburg, with respect, to have it both ways. They've
said that it is a physical and structural thing,
something that's on the golden master disk. And then
they say it's just the binary code in the abstract, but
that in the abstract never becomes a part of the
computer.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What did the Federal
Circuit say? And I read the opinion a couple of times
and it was, it seemed to me ambiguous whether the
Federal Circuit was identifying the component as the
object code itself or the master disk.
MR. OLSON: Yes. I agree with you. The
Federal Circuit was ambiguous, in part because there
were two separate decisions. The court considered the
component issue in the Eolas case and then when this
case came along, said we've already decided the
component portion of the statute; now we must decide the
supplied from. So the language which the Federal
Circuit used is a bit confusing. Basically what it
said, though, is that the act of supplying embraces the
act of copying. That means that any, any company
sending a machine or a patented product abroad, that
that machine must be copied in order to be mass produced
abroad. It might be a pill. It might be a mousetrap.
It might be a Buick. That exact identical copy if
replicated abroad does not violate the statutes, the
patent laws, it doesn't constitute an infringement.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose you had a patent
on a biological organism and it was contained in a
little vial, and you shipped it abroad. Just by doing
nothing at all, it grew, and it had -- it grew into 100
different parts.
MR. OLSON: If it reproduces itself, Justice
Kennedy, somewhere outside the United States --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
MR. OLSON: What you're suggesting is that
there is a pattern or a recipe or a template or a mold.
It could be the same thing. If it's reproduced outside
the United States by some laboratory outside the United
States, then the components are not being sent from the
United States for reassembly abroad.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't this an artificial
distinction in -- when you're talking about the making
of a tangible part, there's at least some cost involved
in doing it here or doing it abroad, and some time
involved. But with, with software, the Federal
Circuit's point was that it is so easy and inexpensive
and fast to copy it that simply sending the information
abroad, sending the object code abroad in the form of
the golden disk, is tantamount to manufacturing copies
overseas.
MR. OLSON: I think there are three answers
to that. Surely the patent laws cannot be determined
according to whether it's easy or fast or efficient to
replicate something. There has to be a line that makes
some sense. Number two, it may be fast and efficient
but there are certainly costs involved in taking the
machines to do it. Number three, where would that take
us? A design -- every product contains its own
manifestation of its design. That would take us
everywhere, because any product can be copied abroad.
However -- and maybe there are going to be fast ways to
produce other things. These are replicas,
reproductions, copies. These are not such components
that are supplied from the United States. If I may
reserve the balance of my time? Thank you.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Joseffer.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DARYL JOSEFFER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. JOSEFFER: Justice Stevens, and may it
please the Court:
It might help if I could start by putting
this case into its context in both the United States and
international patent law. Section 271(f) is a limited
extension of normal territoriality principles that is
designed to shore up the prohibition against actually
making a patented invention in the United States, but it
does not take the further and extraordinary step of
applying United States law to the conduct of copying
parts abroad for assembly and sale abroad conduct is
properly the subject of foreign law.
As a result, in the context of traditional
manufacturing, for example, it has always been
understood pursuant to the statute's text, that while
companies cannot make parts in the United States for
final assembly abroad -- that's too close to making it
here -- they may make copies in a foreign country by,
for example, sending the design to the foreign country
or sending a specific part to the foreign country that
can be copied there.
That distinction between copying in the
United States and copying in the foreign country has two
critical dimensions. The first is that it protects the
foreign government's sovereign prerogative to establish
the rules of competition that will govern companies that
wish to compete in that foreign country's markets by
copying their products abroad, assembling them there and
selling them there.
The second, which is the flip side of
that point, is that it enables United States companies
to compete on an even playing field abroad against their
foreign competitors by manufacturing, assembling, and
selling parts abroad, subject --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Joseffer, to the, to
the extent that you are claiming that there are foreign
nations that would have an interest in this, usually
when that is so, hear from them and in this case there
is a strange silence in that regard.
MR. JOSEFFER: I think that -- I can say --
a couple points I can make. One is, this case has, has
been viewed because of the Federal Circuit's attempt to
tie this to software on the grounds that software can
easily be copied abroad, I think this case has been
somewhat narrowly viewed as a software case. But in
truth, there's no basis for distinguishing software from
anything else, and if the Federal Circuit's decision was
actually taken to its logical conclusion I have no doubt
that other nations would be quite concerned, like in --
in two ways.
One is we have looked, not exhaustively but
we have looked, and we have not been able to find a
single other country that would apply its law in the
circumstances if they were reversed. In other words if
a German condition wanted to compete in the United
States subject to German law by making copies here,
assembling them here, selling them here, Germany would
stay out of that because it's the United States'
prerogative. Also there are significant differences
between the nations' patent laws. For software in
particular, the United States is much more bullish on
the patentability of software-related inventions than
many other countries. But even for more mundane
reasons, if we were talking about anything -- it could
be that the foreign government doesn't think that an
invention is particularly novel, it just disagrees with
us about that, or it doesn't think there is sufficient
advance in the prior art sufficiently inventive to
warrant patent protection. And if the foreign country
is going to make that determination regarding
competition policy in its own borders, it's entitled to
make that determination.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let me ask you about a
domestic law question. One side is telling us it's the
component that's supplied, whether it's the master disk
or the object code. And the other side says this is
just like a blueprint, like a mold, like a template.
Can a blueprint be patented? Can a mold be patented?
MR. JOSEFFER: Not ordinarily. I mean --
I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: Copyright. Copyright. You
normally copyright.
MR. JOSEFFER: You can certainly copyright
something like that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yeah, but patent --
MR. JOSEFFER: Well the -- no, but the -- I
think the most important point here is that the
components of patented inventions do not have to be
patentable. Many patented inventions are comprised of a
bunch of parts where the parts themselves would not be
patentable because say they were standard off the shelf
parts.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, there can be a
process patent.
MR. JOSEFFER: Yes, and we don't -- I mean,
process patents, a process patent is a series of steps
or acts for performing a certain function, such as
turning rubber into a tire. We don't think process
patents are relevant -- are, are covered by this statute
for a couple of reasons. And it's not --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What, what is your view of
what the component is in this case.
MR. JOSEFFER: The component is the, is the
actual machine readable copy of software that is
inserted in --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The software is the
component?
MR. JOSEFFER: Well, but the, the -- but
like with anything, you could say a computer is also the
component, but it's the actual computer, not you know,
any copy of the same computer.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But in this case, you're --
but Mr. Olson said the component is either the disk or
the portion of the hard drive to which the, the coded
instructions are transferred.
MR. JOSEFFER: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you accept that?
MR. JOSEFFER: The United States view -- I'm
not sure exactly how much we disagree on this -- but the
United States view is that, for example, a blank disk is
not a component of this invention because you don't need
a blank disk to practice this invention. The -- the
actual component is the physical substantiation, the
physical copy of the software that's inserted into a
computer and if you get a disk --
JUSTICE SOUTER: In other words, the disk
plus the -- plus the coded instructions.
MR. JOSEFFER: Yes. And again the coded --
the software could be on a disk or it could be on some
other technology. It doesn't matter how it --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It could be on the hard
drive.
MR. JOSEFFER: And once it's copied on to
the hard drive, then the copy on the hard drive is
itself a component.
JUSTICE BREYER: I take it that we are
operating under the assumption that software is
patentable? We have never held that in this Court, have
we?
MR. JOSEFFER: No, but as I was saying
before --
JUSTICE BREYER: So what should we do here?
Should, if we are writing this, since it's never been
held that it's patentable in this Court --
MR. JOSEFFER: I think if --
JUSTICE BREYER: If I were writing
something, should I say on the assumption that it's
patentable? Since the issue isn't raised?
MR. JOSEFFER: No. I think, I think the
reason that's not relevant here is that the patented
invention in this case is not software. It's computer
that has software loaded into it. And the components of
a patented invention do not themselves have to be
patented.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can have you have a
copyright on a program?
MR. JOSEFFER: Ah, if you wrote it out, yes.
If I wrote out a string of 1's and 0's I could copyright
the strings of 1's and 0's that was -- that was written
out on a piece of paper. But the -- in terms of what
the component is here, the other things --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I ask you, the point I
don't understand when you say the -- the component is
the disk that contains material, I understand that
because here is a separate piece; it's a disk. You plug
it in; it has the information on it. But then you say,
if you put it on the hard drive it becomes the
component. But the hard drive is not a separate thing
like a disk. And when you say you put it on the hard
drive you have nothing there but -- but -- but ons and
offs. You have nothing there but the -- but the
thought.
MR. JOSEFFER: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How can you call, you know,
what? Is it a separate section of the hard drive? No.
MR. JOSEFFER: Well, you could go later in
and delete that software off the hard drive which
confirms that the software does have a separate physical
existence in there. But the main point is that the --
the component is the, is the physical substantiation of
the software. The actual copy of the software. It
doesn't matter if it's on a hard disk; doesn't mean it's
on a disk; it doesn't matter if it's in the air in
wireless transmission. It's just the physical copy of
the software. And you could have a situation where
there are multiple copies of that same component in a
computer. One --
JUSTICE ALITO: If these -- if these
computers are built abroad and are sold with Windows
installed, the component is the electrons on the hard
drive? Is that what, that's your position?
MR. JOSEFFER: It's the physical embodiment
of the software which in some instances is manifested by
-- by those electrons. Now AT&T's contrary view is that
the abstract code in the abstract is the component. The
reason that can't be is that object code in the abstract
is just a series of 1's and 0's. In theory I could
memorize in my head or write down on a piece of paper.
But that's not going to combine with other, with other
parts to make a patented invention.
And if I could illustrate that with a simple
lock and key example, a key has a series of ridges on it
that enable it to open a lock. And that series of
ridges can be denoted by a sequence of numbers, bigger
numbers for deeper ridges. But the component is the key
that actually turns the lock, not the abstract sequence
of ridges on the key. And you can then say that about
anything; you can always say that any physical product,
any physical part, is a physical manifestation of its
abstract design.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that analogous to the
source and the compilation, the source being the design,
the compilation being the key?
MR. JOSEFFER: No. The source code and
object code are just different computer languages for
expressing the same thing. There is no -- there's no
difference between them. One is words and one is
numbers, but they mean the same thing. There is no
reason to treat them differently.
The point is just that if you treat the --
either the source code or the object code as the
component, that's just the design of the actual physical
software that goes into the computer. If you did that
you'd have a vastly different statute because any
physical part has a design, but the whole point of the
statute is to prohibit copying of parts in the United
States while permitting copying of parts abroad for sale
abroad.
But if the design itself was a component
then you could never copy parts abroad when something
was designed in the United States, because something
designed abroad would always infringe because the
something designed abroad would itself be the component,
and that would be a vastly different statute there's no
reason to think Congress intended here, especially
because of the extraterritorial consequences.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Windows wasn't around
when this statute was passed.
MR. JOSEFFER: Well, the statute was enacted
in 1984 when software was certainly present. It's fair
to say that Congress was not thinking of software, but
that's further caution for not expanding the statute
beyond traditional territorial reaches. Because first,
this Court has cautioned, has said that it should be
cautious in applying existing electrical property
statutes to new technologies. And in addition it's
emphasized in Deepsouth that the caution against
extraterritoriality applies in this very context. So
Congress is writing against the backdrop of normal
territorial principles, which are the making, using or
selling inventions of foreign countries subject only to
foreign law, and against the backdrop of Deepsouth,
which has specifically held that Congress has to speak
clearly to enact of statute like this.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought it was the
position of the Federal Circuit that Deepsouth has to be
brought into an electronic era, and so the -- the
Federal Circuit was taking a statute that had a shrimp
deveiner in mind and saying well, this is how that
notion should apply to an electronic world.
MR. JOSEFFER: Right. And the reason that
doesn't work in the statutory text and policies is that
the component that we are talking about here is the
specific part that goes in the machine. And if -- and
if -- and under the statute you have to let the company
send the design abroad to manufacture it abroad, both to
protect the company's ability to compete abroad and to
protect the foreign government's prerogatives.
Otherwise it's just a vastly different statute than the
one that Congress enacted. That's really our terms of
the politics.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Your time is up, but I
want to ask you one yes or no question. In your view is
software patentable?
MR. JOSEFFER: Standing alone in and of
itself, no.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you.
Mr. Waxman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN,
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Justice Stevens, and may it
please the Court.
There is no question that Microsoft supplies
the Windows object code, that is the precise, machine
readable sequence of commands that instructs a
computer's processor. From the United States, that is
paragraph 7 of the stipulation.
There is likewise no question that it does
so with the intent that precisely the same sequence,
which runs to millions of lines of binary digits, will
be installed and stored -- those are Microsoft's
words -- in foreign computers precisely so that they may
practice AT&T's invention.
Those facts resolve this case because it is
thus entirely consistent with the ordinary meaning of
the words of the statute to say that Microsoft has
quote, "supplied" a quote, "component" that when quote,
"combined with hardware" enables the practice of AT&T's
invention. Now let's look at --
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose I send someone to
the Patent Office --
MR. WAXMAN: Excuse me?
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose I send someone to
the Patent Office, goes there, picks up the patent, and
this patent is written very, very, very concretely and
specifically. Gets on the phone, phones somebody in
Germany and reads it to him. And that person, having an
excellent memory, takes everything in and now he has the
precise instruction necessary to change the machine
around or put various things into it. So now it is a
precise copy of the machine in the United States.
MR. WAXMAN: That's not the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that -- how is that
different from this? How is it different?
MR. WAXMAN: That is very different than
this case because what -- first of all, we all agree
that software code in and of itself, removed from a
physical structure, cannot be patentable and when
software -- when some -- when an invention that is
practiced with software is patented, at the most what
you will see is preferred embodiments of the source code
which is language that humans understand and which
computers do not.
A lot of work has to be done in items of
debugging and testing and compiling to create what is,
by stipulation, at issue in this case, which is the
precise, machine readable sequence that commands a
computer's CPU millions of times a second. Source code
would do nothing. Source code has to be worked on
overseas.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. We have a genius
-- we have, as they used to have to get all the stuff
that we stole from England, with the -- with the --
remember the weaving machines and the cotton spinners
and so forth? This genius comes over here; he looks at
a really complex machine; it is now stored in his head,
the precise details that nobody else could do. He runs
back to Germany, and he builds it. Well, he has
absolutely stolen the precise, incredibly complex
details of this machine.
MR. WAXMAN: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, does it matter, if
instead of sending the individual, we send the machine
to Germany. This genius looks at it in Germany and
there he makes the copy. Are they any different?
MR. WAXMAN: When you're talking -- when
you're talking about sending designs over or blueprints
or management instructions or a high level version of,
gee let's have a code that will perform the following
functions, and you have people design and make and
compile and test and debug that code overseas, of course
that component, the component is the object code, the
precise commands that reside in the computer and
continually interact with the hardware of the computer
in a way I'm going to describe and is not disputed,
millions of times a second.
Let's take this case. Okay. Is it -- the
question is, is it a component and whether what was
supplied was in fact combined. That's, that's -- that's
what this case boils down to. As to the component.
We have something, software program, the
NetMeeting and sound recorded program that can in its
object, its machine readable command form, is developed,
bought and sold entirely separately from any hardware
that it commands.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And that is what is on
master disk.
MR. WAXMAN: And that is what is either on
the master disk or, although either side obscures this,
that is what is represented in the electric --
electronic transmission, that is another means by which
the code is supplied.
And in paragraph 7 of the stipulation
Microsoft acknowledges that it supplies the Windows
object code by transmitting it to manufacturers
overseas. And the way that happens is the code, the
machine language, is resident in Redmond, either in the
pits and lands of a CD or on the varying magnetic
orientations of a hard drive, and a, some engineer from
Microsoft presses a button and it is essentially, it is
taken and converted into photons which stream whatever
it is, 7,000 miles, under the land and under the
Atlantic Ocean and emerges into a machine, a computer, a
bit of otherwise inanimate parts that are sitting there
in Dusseldorf, where it is loaded onto the hard drive,
it's converted from photons to a series of electrical
pulses.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is that really what
happens? As I understand it there is an intermediate
step. They don't send it directly from the United
States to each of the individual computers in Germany.
They send it to a central point which then redistributes
it. Is that not right.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, I think that paragraph 7
of the stipulation, it doesn't specify one way or the
other, but their case, Justice Stevens, depends upon the
following. Because if I --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If you're correct that
they're just sending from New York direct to the 500
different machines all on one transmission from New
York, there's no lawsuit here.
MR. WAXMAN: Let me give you two examples --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is that what you're trying
to tell us, that they do send it directly from New York
to 500 different recipients in Germany?
MR. WAXMAN: No, no, no. And it wouldn't --
what I'm saying is there is at least one violation of
271(f) here. 271(f) looks exclusively at what is done
in the United States. It is entirely irrelevant to
271(f) what, if anything, is done overseas. The Federal
Circuit has made this clear in the Waymark case and it's
consistent with the language.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would it be a violation if
they sent, if they sent the golden disk abroad and
nobody ever copied anything off the golden disk?
MR. WAXMAN: If they sent the golden disk
abroad or if the Microsoft engineer --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would you answer my
question?
MR. WAXMAN: I think I am. The answer is --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If they send the golden
disk abroad and never use it, would that be a violation?
MR. WAXMAN: If they had the necessary
intent and purpose. They had to have had the specific
intent and purpose that it be combined in order to
create a device that wouldn't --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Suppose it is never, it is
never combined?
MR. WAXMAN: It wouldn't matter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So you -- and the reason it
wouldn't matter on your view is that the component is
the object code on the disk, not the disk itself?
MR. WAXMAN: That's right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right. Then why
doesn't that get you --
MR. WAXMAN: It could be --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why doesn't that get you
right back to the point that Justice Breyer was making?
You are saying, I think, in essence if you send a
blueprint -- this is like a blueprint. It tells, it
tells a machine which may be in Europe how to put the
object code on other disks or on hard drives. The
machine in Europe is following instructions just the way
an artisan would follow a blueprint.
MR. WAXMAN: Here's the difference.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What is the difference?
MR. WAXMAN: And it's nicely embodied in
Microsoft's reply's use, repeated use of the word
"antecedent." A blueprint or a design is a precursor to
the actual device. It is the instructions about how to
make something. It's not the thing itself. And here
what we have is the object code that is the precise
commands that, unlike design information, interact
continuously with the hard drive and with the processor
in order to make physical changes on an ongoing basis.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but the "continuously"
does not describe the process of going from the master
disk to what you claim to be the infringing computer
sold in Europe. There is no continuous process there.
As I understand it, what happens is -- let's just take
the master disk and forget the photon for the moment.
The master disk functions like a blueprint. They send,
from the United States they send the blueprint to
Europe. The blueprint is put in some kind of a machine
in Europe. And by the use of the blueprint the machine
puts electrical charges on a disk or on a hard drive,
and that it seems to me does bear out the blueprint
analogy. And if it does, then any export of a blueprint
or indeed the simple export, the simple sending of the
'820, if that's the right number, patent in this case
would be a violation.
MR. WAXMAN: I have to disagree, Justice
Souter, because the blueprint -- the patent is not the
actual series of commands that runs the machine and
neither is the blueprint. The blueprint is
instructions, to be sure, and it can be reflected in
intangible code, but it's instructions about how to make
something and once it's made it's done. You can say, as
Mr. Olson did, that the design is embodied in the thing
that is made. The blueprint for a semiconductor chip in
some sense is always reflected in that chip. But if you
don't like the chip you have to get rid of it. Software
can be -- if you don't like Microsoft Word, you can
download it and you can delete it and download
WordPerfect and use that. And what happens in the
computer -- and I think this does bear on what the
nature of the component is and why in the ordinary sense
of the word "component" and the ordinary sense of the
words "supply" and "combine," they apply naturally to
what Microsoft does.
I mean, is a disk, is a typewriter, is a
screen, is a hard drive, is a CPU a component? Are they
components when they have the code embedded in it? Of
course. But that doesn't -- a tire doesn't become not a
component of a car just because a tire with a wheel
attached to it is also a component. The question is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But suppose, suppose you
had a machine that makes another machine, and if you
ship that machine to Europe -- and there's a patent for
the machine that makes it. If you ship it to Europe and
it starts making another machine, the statute is not
violated; and isn't that just what's happening here?
MR. WAXMAN: No, no, no. This is not a
machine tool. The thing that was violated, the machine
readable object code, is precisely what is installed on
the computer and precisely what is moved from one part
of the computer to another in different forms as the
computer operates and it continually instructs. This is
dynamic. It's not --
JUSTICE BREYER: How would you, how would
you -- go back for a second, please, because, if you're
finished with that, because I don't see how to decide
for you without at the same time permitting a person to
walk over to the Patent Office, to read that application
and the description, which after all at least can be a
very highly detailed set of instructions of how to make
a machine, getting on the phone, explaining that just
like the blueprint which it is just like to somebody in
Europe. They then make it. And that on your reading
would violate the statute. It can't be right that that
would and you don't even think it would.
MR. WAXMAN: I don't because --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And so what's the
difference between that and this case for you?
MR. WAXMAN: Justice Breyer, there is a
long, long spectrum with respect to software that goes,
goes from high level system architecture to all the way
down through component architecture, pseudo code, source
code, which is, which is a description that humans
understand, and the actual machine language that a
computer will understand. Invention -- patents do not
specify machine language. The machine code is totally
dependent on what type of processor it's relating to and
somebody who takes source code -- I could make an
argument that if you take, steal the Microsoft source
code, which is the crown jewel, it is the greatest trade
secret of this country, it will not be sent overseas,
but if somebody took it with a bunch of smart engineers
and said, you know, convert this into, convert this into
something a computer will understand that will combine
with a computer, that involves a question of whether
what's going on overseas is manufacture as opposed to
assembly.
Look at it from the perspective -- maybe
this helps. Let's look at the question from the
perspective of Microsoft, the OEM, and the user
overseas. Object code is the end of Microsoft's
manufacturing process. That is what they make. They
don't make hard drives, they don't make disks, they
don't make computers. They fully finish their product,
the Windows operating code, and then send it overseas.
The OEM is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That, that code is not
patentable, you've said.
MR. WAXMAN: The code is not patentable.
The expression is copyrightable. AT&T has not sought to
get a patent on the code. AT&T has a patent on a system
that can be practiced, among other ways, through the use
of software.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But what is it that they
export and send overseas?
MR. WAXMAN: They export in a variety of
different physical forms --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Right, it's a thing. It's
an object of some sort, isn't it?
MR. WAXMAN: It is an intangible sequence of
commands that is carrying --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It is an object that has
coded onto it, transferred to it in a readable way,
those commands. But it's an object, isn't it?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, it's not necessarily an
object. I don't know whether you would call a stream of
photons that is constantly repeated under the Atlantic
Ocean an object.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, this may,
this may help focus that question. Suppose the master
disks were made abroad. You would be taking the same
position, would you not?
MR. WAXMAN: If -- that depends how it were
made. If it were --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I hope we can continue
calling it the golden disk. It has a certain
Scheherazade quality that really adds a lot of interest
to this case.
(Laughter.)
MR. WAXMAN: Justice Ginsburg, the question
is what is made. If making it means somehow creating,
reconfiguring the precise sequence of commands --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No. That's given by
Microsoft to one of its offices in Europe. But the
golden disk itself is made abroad.
MR. WAXMAN: If the, if the object code
itself, the very precise sequence that can't be changed,
is supplied from the United States --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. WAXMAN: -- the act is implicated.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the only thing --
MR. WAXMAN: Regardless of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The only thing supplied
is this, one side calls it abstract, one side calls it
something else. But anyway, it is the series of 0's and
1's; that's the only thing that's supplied from the
United States?
MR. WAXMAN: That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Any physical
manifestation of it is done abroad. You would still be
taking the position that you're taking, is that not so?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, yes, except that the
intangible sequence of commands can only be carried in
the form of, by attaching it to a physical platform or a
bucket.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but it doesn't have
to be --
MR. WAXMAN: Even a radio wave. Microsoft
has patent claims for software.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The physical object does
not have to originate in the United States. Can they
not transmit the commands to a physical object in
Germany and have that be the substitute for the golden
disk?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, of course, and they do
that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
MR. WAXMAN: They press a button and they
have an electronic transmission that sends a stream of
protons under the Atlantic Ocean and are changed into
electrical impulses that are used to inscribe the
precise code onto a hard drive in the form of
electromagnetic pulses.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But that they now send to
some central point which redistributes them. They send
one copy to, say, the wholesaler, who then makes 500
copies that are sent to the retail customers, isn't that
correct?
MR. WAXMAN: That may be. We don't --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Which is exactly what
happens in this case?
MR. WAXMAN: It's one of the things that
happens in this case. We have a stipulated record that
is not very detailed, but in that instance there is only
one violation.
JUSTICE STEVENS: My question is if that is
what happens, when the retransmission takes place when
one copy is converted into 500 how can those 500 all be
components rather than copies of the single component?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, the only -- I have two
answers to that question, both of them I think directly
answering your question. First of all, the statute is
violated only when the precise object code is
expatriated from the United States, when it is supplied
from the United States. That's the violation. The
other issues are damages, what damages are you entitled
to. What is combined with the computer is the precise
thing that is supplied because it is the precise
sequence of commands.
JUSTICE BREYER: But is there any precedent
for that sort of thing? That is, I understand your
point now, I think, but however you put it, it has to
come down to the fact that this very, very complex and
detailed thing that is being supplied is an abstract set
of numbers. And I can understand how the patent
application does not itself contain that set of numbers,
but rather contains an instruction as to how to generate
that set of numbers.
But I then would be quite frightened of
deciding for you and discovering that all over the world
there are vast numbers of inventions that really can be
thought of in the same way that you're thinking of this
one, and suddenly all kinds of transmissions of
information themselves and alone become components. So
I'm asking you, is there any outside the computer field
analogous instance where the transmission of information
has itself been viewed as the transmission of a
component?
MR. WAXMAN: I'm not aware of any. In the
lower courts, Microsoft was arguing that the biotech
industry was an analogy, but there is some very obvious
differences between what is supplied in terms of object
code that instructs a machine and a, you know, a
sequence of nucleotides, the abstract sequence of
nucleotides. But I think we need to be quite precise
here. We are not complaining that the component is an
idea. We're not complaining -- we're not arguing that a
component is some form of information. What we're
saying here is -- I mean, nobody is paying billions of
dollars from an idea. When the commands are loaded onto
the hard drive of a computer in the form of
electromagnetic orientations and when you press a button
saying give me NetMeeting, and the processor says -- and
this is what electrical engineers say -- fetch the
instructions, fetch the commands to the random access
memory where it's -- where it is there reflected in a --
in a form of patterns of electrical charges. And when
the code then moves back and forth, the instructions
move back and forth from the CPU and RAM, they --
they -- millions of times a second they are replicating
themselves.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is it an answer to
Justice Breyer, or maybe it isn't, that we have no
conceptual problem saying there would be liability if
this happened within the territorial limits of the
United States?
MR. WAXMAN: Absolutely not.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And so there shouldn't be
a greater conceptual problem if you prevail, in applying
it abroad.
MR. WAXMAN: That's --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, sure, there is. It's
a bigger --
MR. WAXMAN: If I can, I just want to make
sure I answer your question.
JUSTICE BREYER: But it's totally different
in that of course it violates the patent in the United
States. The whole question here is whether or not the
person has to go get a patent in Germany, which he can
do or not do. And the -- the concern that I'm worried
about is in the future it might be outside your field,
it might be in biology, but if you suddenly say that the
transmission purely of information is the transmission
of a component, no matter how detailed, I can easily see
in biology or medicine where a patent has an instruction
and indeed, that instruction is an instruction to create
other detailed procedures, processes, dishes, Petri
dishes, I don't know what it is, and we transmit that
detailed information abroad. Then suddenly it's our
patent law and not the foreign patent law that would
govern. That's why I asked for precedent.
MR. WAXMAN: Okay. First of all, this
statute does not reach anything that is done overseas.
It doesn't reach what the German OEM does. It doesn't
reach what anybody does overseas. It -- it makes liable
as an infringer somebody who supplies -- who is in the
United States who supplies from the United States a
component with the intent, with the express intent that
that component be combined in a way to create a device
that would practice a U.S. patent. Now I don't believe
-- I firmly am confident that if you look at what's at
issue in this case, there may be all sorts of questions
about what is or isn't a component. I might think that
a design is a component or it isn't a component, but
think of these three features: One, this is something
that is totally modular. It is developed, bought and
sold entirely independent of any of the hardware to
which it is, with which it is combined, and between
which it moves continuously as it operates. Number two,
it can be removed or updated entirely independently of
the other components. And it is dynamic, unlike
designs, unlike molds, unlike instructions about how to
make something, all of which are exhausted. They have
done their work when the thing is made. That's why
those things are called hardware.
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right. But --
MR. WAXMAN: These are instructions not
about how to make something. They are instructions
about what the other things that are made should do and
how they do it.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You can perfectly well say
that in this case. You can say that the instruction is
exhausted once the golden disk has sent its information
through an intermediary machine onto the new disk that
is made.
MR. WAXMAN: You could not say that because
if you take the information from a golden master or a
stream of photons and put it on a hard drive, unless
that continues to move and change in form, the computer
will not work. The computer operates by having you
press a button saying do this function. The central
processing unit then says where are my instructions on
how to do it. It says find them and put them in random
access memory, where it is then replicated in the form
of patterns of electrical charges, quite a different
physical form than it exists on the hard drive. And the
program counter --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That simply means that
after the -- the -- the -- the idea as you put it, has
been placed on the hard drive, certain other processes
must take place too before we get the result that people
are buying computers to -- to obtain. But it's still
the case that the -- that the code on the golden disk is
exhausted once that has been transferred from the disk
through an intermediary machine on its way ultimately to
a working computer just -- and my only point is -- just
the way you can say that the blueprint in effect is
exhausted once the house has been built.
MR. WAXMAN: It's not because the blueprint
has no further work to do. It was something that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Sure. You can use it
again.
MR. WAXMAN: Something you teach, has no
further work to do with respect to the infringing
device, but the object code works continuously and gives
continuous instructions to the various hardware
components completely unlike. But let me go to --
JUSTICE SOUTER: The object code has several
jobs. One job when embodied on the golden disk is tell
a -- is to tell a machine how to make disks or how to
put a message on a hard drive. Another job that the
object code has is when the object code gets on the
resulting disk or the hard drive. But in fact, the
manifestation of the object code on the golden disk and
the manifestation of the object code on the resulting
disk are separable, just as the blueprint is separable
from what is constructed.
MR. WAXMAN: Justice Souter, just taking
your -- taking that as -- that as the case, the United
States in footnote 2 of its brief repeats what Microsoft
argued in the court of appeals and the district court,
which is that if it took instead of one golden master,
but 100,000 CDs, which is what a golden master is, one
for each computer, that would be a 271(f) infringement.
But that also requires copying and transforming the code
that is on the CD-ROM which is in the form of physical
pits and lands and indentations, and downloading it into
the hard drive where the same exact sequence is
manifested as varying orientations of electronic,
electromagnetic fields, and that is no different
whatsoever than this case.
If you say, well, what destroys you in this
case is that the code has to be copied, replication,
precise instantaneous replication is simply how software
works. It's not just how it's supplied. It's not just
how it's combined. It's how it interacts dynamically
within the computer. And that's why we say it's a
component.
Let me just be clear about what the
statutory interpretation question here is. It's not as
whether our conception of the component as the code --
as the -- as the command is better than their conception
of the component as a CD or a light wave or a telephone
wire that contains that.
The question is, there may very -- it may
very well be both things. The question is whether the
word component naturally applies to what we do. And our
-- we have given dozens of references to the use of
intangible software, program software as components. We
have given you the dictionary definition with an example
from Webster's. They have not responded with one
counter-example. The only dictionary example they
provide you relates to the word "such", and it's in
their reply brief on page 5. But they have given you
not the first definition of such under Black, in Black's
Eighth, they have given you the second one. The first
one is, of this or that kind, she collects a variety of
things. And that definition, under that definition it
wouldn't matter whether you said, well, the component
has to be physical or, you know, it could be either.
Because even if it has to be physical --
JUSTICE ALITO: Can you think of any
machine -- can you think of any machine other than a
computer that has a component that is not a physical
thing?
MR. WAXMAN: I can't. And that's why it
seems to me, I mean -- and there are -- there are
machines that have nonphysical things in them but not
that operate in the sort of same dynamic way. We gave
the example of the intangible text of Moby Dick in a
book. And they give the example of, you know, an
incredibly complicated series of circuits on a -- on a
chip. But those don't continue to operate and interact
in the way that this paradigmatic component does. Thank
you.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Waxman.
Mr. Olson, you have, let's see, four minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. OLSON: Thank you, Justice Scalia. I
mean Justice Stevens.
(Laughter.)
I was about to address Justice Scalia and
recite the case -- cite the case Nixon versus
Fitzgerald, which is directly responsive to the question
Justice Scalia raised at the very beginning of the
audience, that a stipulation with respect to damages
does not make a case moot. And also with respect to a
question raised by Justice Scalia, or a comment made by
him, it doesn't have to be gold. It's a master disk.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sorry.
MR. OLSON: What this essentially comes down
to is something that Mr. Waxman repeatedly said. It is
the commands that are a component. The commands to the
individual foreign made computers. Those are -- those
commands cannot be understood and cannot be used by that
computer unless they are in a physical medium that is
created as a copy of the master disk that sends abroad
-- that's sent abroad.
As I said at the beginning, the stipulation
is full of the word "copies", foreign replicated copies.
That's what we're talking about here, something that is
recreated. And Justice Breyer, your question about
someone who's got a really good memory and can go abroad
and recite the 1's and 0's, pictures can be taken,
copies can be made in lots of different ways.
And in response to Justice --
JUSTICE BREYER: His answer to me is that --
that -- it's sort of misleading to think of this as if
it's just information, because it's really a method that
switches things at a level of detail that is impossible
to put in a patent application. It's taking the
information in a patent application, it's transforming
it into what we think of as 1's and 0's, but they're not
really even 1's and 0's. What they are is things that
happen with electricity.
MR. OLSON: That's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And it's putting that on
the disk and then it makes other things happen.
MR. OLSON: I agree.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's putting something
physical on a disk, pits and lands, instructions that
are copied from the master disk and then put into either
a hard drive or a disk, it's the same thing. It's
something that is into the computer that will make the
computer operate.
You're right, Justice Ginsburg, that the
court of appeals for the Federal Circuit thought it was
bringing this statute up to date and it even said so.
We are making an extension of the statute to keep up to
date with the technology. That is not for courts to do.
This Court is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you saying that the
infringement act that happened in the United States
involved no components?
MR. OLSON: The infringement that happened
in the United States which was under Section B, which
provides Section B inducement liability for making
copies domestically of -- the same thing that happened
here. Copies of the object code were put on physical
mediums and sent to domestic manufacturers. Domestic
reproduction constitutes infringement under Section
271(b) but foreign reproduction is not a violation of
Section 271(a) or 271(b). Hence, we're talking about
the two sections where --
JUSTICE BREYER: So they had a license to do
that, because if they didn't have a license to make the
master disk here in the United States, the making of it
would have violated the patent; is that right?
MR. OLSON: The making of the master disk if
actually used in a computer with a microphone and a
speaker, and that's the liability that existed in the
stipulation under 271(a). Making copies is liability
domestically under 271(b). If it's going to be liable
for foreign made replications, then it must be under
271(f). The language of the statute, we submit is
clear. Physical things must be components under 271(f)
because they must be supplied from somewhere. Ideas
have no physical from. They're in the air. The words
used, "supplied from" tells us that it must be a
physical thing combined with. Ideas don't combine with
physical things to make a patented invention. Physical
things do. Thank you, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Olson. The
case is submitted.
[Whereupon, at 11:15 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.]
54:23 24:8 50:18 2:2,5,9,12 3:3 34:25 brief 3:18 10:20
8:1 9:2 14:13 27:24 38:5 beginning 51:17 bringing 53:10
10:1,3 amicus 1:19 2:7 51:9 52:6 broad 6:6
12:4,11 16:19 art 19:13 behalf 1:15,19 brought 27:2
14:22,24 amount 4:10,20 artificial 15:17 1:21 2:4,7,11 bucket 41:6
5:10,14,19 artisan 34:14 2:14 3:7 16:19 Buick 14:25
16:11 amounts 3:21 asked 45:22 27:25 51:10 builds 30:8
analogous 25:6 asking 43:16 Belgium 13:21 built 24:9 48:4
24:9 43:17 assembling believe 4:1 46:6 bullish 19:6
analogy 35:13 17:23 18:3 bet 4:5 bunch 20:10
27:11 43:22 19:2 better 49:23 38:8
33:9 answer 8:19 assembly 17:6 beyond 26:13 business 12:22
39:22 11:2 33:13,15 17:12 38:13 bigger 24:24 button 31:25
41:1 44:18 45:6 Assistant 1:17 45:4 41:19 44:8
52:4,5 52:14 assumption 22:7 billions 44:5 47:12
answering 42:18 22:17 binary 14:4 buy 12:21,24
42:17 39:18 41:21 bind 13:18
14:4,5 34:19 attaching 41:5 biology 45:13,16 C 2:1 3:1
anybody 46:1 attempt 18:12 biotech 43:21 call 8:11 23:19
40:20 anyway 40:21 attempted 13:25 bit 14:19 32:4 39:17
appeal 3:21,23 AT&T 1:6 3:4 Black 50:11 called 11:7
10:20 49:2 13:6,18 39:1,2 blueprint 19:22 40:2
APPEARAN... 24:14 28:13,18 34:14,19 35:7 car 36:15
40:16 appears 8:11 authoritatively 35:13,18,20,20 carrying 39:12
appendix 7:7 10:21 35:25 37:13 case 4:5 5:4,15
24:1 applies 26:18 54:22 boils 31:5 16:24 18:8,11
34:20 50:3 book 51:2 18:14,15 20:22
37:25
29:11 arguably 10:16 backdrop 26:19 30:1,12 34:8 47:3,24 48:25
51:15 12:14,16 13:12 company's 3:13 6:4,5,9,22 confident 46:7
54:21 14:4,11 15:24 27:12 6:23 7:18 9:8 confirms 23:23
19:21 24:15,16 compete 17:22 9:12,13,16 confused 10:14
47:12 38:17,21,23,25 compile 30:21 computer 6:7 considered 8:17
40:2 41:23 42:19 complaining 10:12 11:15 consistent 28:15
43:24 44:14 44:2,3 13:3,9,10 14:6 33:7
26:10 48:18,18,20,21 48:13 22:21 24:7 constitute 15:2
53:21 43:4 30:24 32:3 53:23
21:23 39:14 51:3 37:2,3 38:1,10 48:23
47:16 36:9 38:10 8:17,23 9:2,5,6 47:10,11 48:2 contains 7:7,12
51:4 combined 28:18 10:17,23 11:1 52:3 53:6,7 49:25
42:23 46:5,14 12:16 13:23,23 computers 6:8 17:8 26:18
33:6 49:17 54:17 14:10,15,17 7:17,18,25 8:3 continually
come 4:6,16 19:20 20:22,23 9:13 10:15 30:24 37:3
51:23 23:25 24:6,10 32:11 38:20 continues 47:10
49:23 25:24 26:3 computer's 28:6 48:12
54:13 42:25 44:6,11 43:19 44:2,4 concern 45:11 5:16
8:11,13 17:11,21 18:1 50:15,20 51:5 concretely 28:25 copied 6:14,20
11:8,8 company 14:21 51:25 condition 18:25 7:1,4,5,14
12:7 27:10 components conduct 17:5,6 14:23 16:11
18:14 18:11 20:20 6:15 18:17 33:21 34:20 33:9,10,11,17
33:10 course 30:21 decisions 14:14 46:5 48:11 34:2,2 35:3,6,7
53:4 36:14 41:16 deemed 6:9,20 Dick 51:1 35:11 36:11
10:3,6 court 1:1,12 3:9 Deepsouth 50:8 47:4,5,24,25
15:25 4:6,16 5:17 26:17,22 27:1 difference 25:12 48:15,19,20,22
17:13 6:15,19 10:20 define 13:23 34:15,16 37:19 51:21 52:4,25
24:6 42:3 14:14 16:22 definition 50:6 differences 19:4 53:3,4,5 54:4,6
52:7,7 22:8,14 26:14 50:11,14,14 43:23 disks 7:16 34:12
53:20,21 28:2 49:2,2 delete 23:22 different 3:21 38:19 39:22
53:9,13 36:4 5:9 11:4 15:7 48:16
15:23 53:12 Department 27:14 29:9,9 distinction
21:6,19 covered 20:19 1:18 29:10 30:15 15:18 17:17
24:1,4 CPU 29:23 dependent 38:3 32:20,25 37:2 distinguishing
29:6 36:12 44:15 depending 3:22 39:8 45:7 18:16
42:2,14 create 4:7 29:20 4:19,21 5:24 47:16 49:11 distribution
33:21 45:17 depends 4:11 52:12 6:11
17:5,17 created 6:5 52:4 32:16 39:24 25:14 document 8:8
25:21 creating 40:7 describe 30:25 digital 8:15 12:1
49:6 criminal 5:1 35:2 digits 28:10 doing 15:5,20,20
23:1,3 17:19 37:10,24 17:19 dollars 44:6
curiae 1:19 2:8 17:14 25:5,7 directly 32:10 53:22,22
34:19,23 35:24 disagree 21:14 doubt 18:18
12:18 D 3:1 designed 17:2 disagrees 19:11 downloading
32:18 damages 4:10 26:1,2,3 discovering 49:8
4:21 42:22,22 designs 30:17 43:11 dozens 50:4
debugging 45:15,18,20 10:11,14 11:15 24:11 31:24
decades 10:21 determination 12:14,17,19,21 35:11 36:12
37:7 determined 16:3 15:25 19:20 47:9,17,21
19:14 decided 4:19 deveiner 27:4 21:8,15,17,20 48:17,19 49:9
14:16 developed 31:8 21:21,24 23:9 53:5
50:25 28:18 existing 26:15 firmly 46:7 G
enacted 26:9 expanding 26:13 29:11 gee 30:19
encoded 11:21 expatriated 50:11,12 generate 43:8
entered 3:19 express 46:4 32:17 34:13 30:14 32:11,25
21:8 Eolas 14:15 extent 18:6 17:18,20,22 18:5 19:18
31:13,14 equals 13:16 extraordinary 18:3,6 19:10 20:5 26:7,25
50:16 era 27:2 17:4 19:14 26:21,22 39:20 40:6,9
especially 5:1 extraterritorial 27:13 28:12 40:15,17,19,25
35:11 2:3,6,10,13 26:18 foreign-made 51:2
44:10,13 essence 34:9 6:8 7:8 given 40:9 50:4
essentially 6:9 F forget 35:6 50:6,10,12
44:8 Europe 34:11,13 facts 28:14 44:13 47:10,15 45:10 48:13
35:4,9,10 fair 26:10 47:17 49:7 52:10
41:20 40:10 fast 15:23 16:4,6 forth 30:5 44:14 28:24 37:21,22
exact 14:25 49:9 16:12 44:15 going 5:7 9:17
42:6 February 1:9 Frankfurt 13:21 24:19 30:25
48:15 50:6,8 51:1,2 15:21 18:12,17 43:10 gold 51:21
excellent 29:3 53:9 fully 38:20 8:25 9:4,7 10:6
Excuse 28:22 field 18:2 43:16 47:12 11:23 14:3
18:21 find 18:22 47:14 26:12 48:6,10 47:4,8,24
49:3 helps 38:15 47:8 52:16,19 47:5 48:1 10:21
high 30:18 37:22infringe 26:2 intermediate Justice 1:18 3:3
hope 40:1 49:5 53:15,17 16:25 5:15,18,23 6:2
humans 29:17 infringer 46:2 4:12 5:22 7:23 8:4,9,19
27:13 hypothetical 48:10 invention 3:12 10:5,9,13,23
implicated instantaneous 15:19,21 16:7 22:1,6,12,16
important 20:7 instruction 29:4 involves 38:11 24:8 25:6 26:7
31:21 52:17 45:17 47:3 issue 4:19 5:3 28:1,20,23
35:5 36:5 impulses 41:22 instructions 12:12 14:15 29:8 30:1,12
inanimate 32:4 8:22 21:10,22 22:18 29:21 31:11 32:8,16
11:16 incredibly 30:9 35:21,22 37:11 issues 42:22 33:13,16,22,25
21:9 51:3 44:11,14 46:18 items 29:19 34:4,7,8,16
23:12 indentations 46:23,24 47:13 35:1,17 36:17
49:8 48:12 53:3 J 37:5,18,20
31:24 independent instructs 28:5 jewel 38:6 38:23 39:5,9
34:12,24 46:13 37:3 43:24 job 48:15,17 39:13,20 40:1
36:12 independently intangible 8:16 jobs 48:15 40:6,9,15,17
41:23 46:16 8:21 11:5 Joseffer 1:17 2:6 40:19,25 41:7
47:9,17 individual 30:13 35:22 39:11 16:17,18,21 41:11,18,25
48:17,19 32:11 52:1 41:4 50:5 51:1 18:5,10 19:24 42:6,12 43:1
53:5 inducement intended 26:5 20:3,6,15,23 44:18,19,24
30:24 industry 43:22 33:19,20 46:4 22:3,10,15,19 47:2,19 48:7
46:13,21 inexpensive 46:4 23:2,18,21 48:14,24 50:18
15:22 interact 30:24 24:12 25:9 51:7,11,12,14
26:23 43:15,17 44:4 40:3 4:10 54:20
7:19 level 30:18 36:18,19,20,21 9:1,18,20 14:3 28:11 34:18
8:4 9:3,7 37:22 52:17 36:24,24 37:12 14:11 19:20 38:17
liability 5:8 6:5 37:25 38:2,2 31:12,14 35:2 miles 32:2
12:6,15 44:20 53:19 43:24 47:5 35:6,7 39:21 millions 28:10
54:8,9 48:1,16 50:19 47:8 49:3,4 29:23 31:1
liable 6:13 46:1 50:19 51:21 52:4 44:16
22:25 54:10 machines 9:17 53:4 54:4,6 mind 27:4
36:17 license 54:2,3 10:23 13:19 material 23:9 minutes 51:8
53:14 light 49:24 16:8 30:4 matter 1:11 4:11 misleading
limitation 6:4 magnetic 31:23 24:2,3 30:12 Moby 51:1
9:4 13:11 line 16:5 15:18 17:3,12 mean 5:18 12:20 molds 46:18
23:19 lines 28:10 19:1 26:20 19:24 20:15 moment 35:6
39:17 little 10:13 15:5 34:8 36:21 24:2 25:13 money 5:24
45:19 loaded 22:22 40:7 53:11,19 36:11 44:5 monopoly 3:10
51:2 32:5 44:6 54:4,6,9 50:23 51:12 moot 51:19
long 37:21,21 7:12 9:1,10,11 31:16 40:7 47:10
looked 7:14 16:10 25:4 medium 7:15 46:15
29:17 looks 30:5,14 manifestations mediums 53:22 mundane 19:8
33:7 33:3 12:13 memorize 24:18 muteness 3:23
38:2 lose 5:25 manifested memory 29:3
lot 5:24 29:19 24:13 49:10 44:12 47:15 N
lower 43:21 manufactured message 48:17 nations 18:7,19
18:23 M manufacturer 52:16 naturally 36:9
26:22 machine 7:13 7:2 microphone 50:3
8:8 9:21 11:9 manufacturers 54:7 nature 36:7
19:5 12:1 13:17 manufacturing 3:4,22 12:21 39:16
29:6,22 30:6 markets 17:22 36:3,10 38:5 need 21:16 44:1
obtain 47:23 27:24 parts 15:7 17:6 25:22 37:8
44:9 Ocean 32:3 14:23 33:20 20:10,10,12 45:10
25:25 odd 12:20 ordinarily 19:24 25:25 32:4 38:14,16
OEM 38:16,22 ordinary 28:15 passed 26:8 petition 7:7
26:16 Office 28:21,24 organism 15:4 8:17 10:21 1:16,20 2:4,8
37:9 orientations 13:6,8,11 15:2 2:14 3:7 16:20
offices 40:10 31:24 44:8 15:3 16:3,25 51:10
Olson 1:15 2:3 4:9,21 5:6,9,9 35:15,18 36:19 phones 29:1
4:1,8,17,25 15:9,13,14 41:10 43:6 photons 32:1,6
9:12,22 10:1,8 31:21 33:5 patentability 9:11 10:8,11
44:1 12:18,23 13:1 46:1 20:11 22:8,14 14:2 21:18,19
46:15 13:25 14:12 P 29:13 38:24,25 24:12 25:3,4,4
25:13 21:8 35:24 27:24 3:14 8:17 34:25 39:8
51:8,9,11,23 page 2:2 50:10 10:23 13:4,5,5 40:25 41:5,11
53:1,17 pages 7:6 13:10,16 14:22 41:13 47:17
ongoing 34:25 paradigmatic 29:15 54:18 54:15,17,18,18
12:13 ons 23:15 51:5 patents 20:16,19 physically 11:25
14:11 on-off 13:12,12 paragraph 28:7 38:1 picks 28:24
19:21 open 24:23 31:18 32:14 pattern 15:12 pictures 52:11
25:10,16 operate 50:25 parcel 6:11 patterns 44:13 piece 23:5,10
30:22 51:4 53:7 part 6:10 8:2 47:16 24:18
34:2 operates 37:3 14:5,13 15:19 pay 3:22 pill 14:24
36:25 46:15 47:11 17:15 25:4,20 paying 44:5 pits 31:23 49:8
39:10,13 operating 6:8 27:9 37:1 people 11:3 53:3
22:7 38:21 particular 19:6 30:20 47:22 place 42:13
41:11,13 opinion 14:8 particularly perfectly 47:2 47:22
43:23 opposed 38:12 19:11 perform 30:19 placed 47:21
opposite 5:8 parties 3:19 4:3 performing platform 41:5
53:21 oral 1:11 2:2,5,9 4:4,18 5:5,20 20:17 playing 18:2
28:2 prescribed 3:21 protection 19:14 R recorded 31:7
present 26:10 protects 3:11 R 3:1 recreated 52:9
preserving 5:3 provide 50:9 raised 8:15 Redmond 31:22
23:7,24 47:12 pseudo 37:23 RAM 44:15 references 50:4
32:12 presses 31:25 pulses 32:7 random 44:11 referred 8:24
42:1 43:3 prettiest 12:22 41:24 47:14 reflected 35:21
prevail 44:25 purchasers 12:5 reach 45:24,25 36:1 44:12
21:9 5:16 10:23 12:17 13:16 readable 8:8 relating 38:3
8:10 procedures 34:11 35:9 28:5 29:22 22:20
9:4 45:18 43:3 47:9,14 31:8 36:25 remember 30:4
12:12 process 11:22 47:20 48:17 39:14 removed 29:12
27:1 20:14,16,16,18 52:18 53:4,21 reading 37:14 46:16
41:2 35:2,4 38:18 puts 12:2 35:11 reads 6:22 29:2 repeated 34:18
10:19 47:21 52:24 53:2 27:15 30:6 repeatedly
46:6 47:13 Q 43:12 52:10,16 repeats 49:1
34:24 38:3 question 3:17,18 reason 22:20 replicate 16:5
45:22 produce 16:13 5:21 7:5 8:15 26:5 27:6 7:9,10,16 15:1
30:7 14:23 19:19 27:18 reasons 19:9 replicating
34:22 product 7:25 28:3,8 31:3 20:20 44:16
41:23 12:10 14:22 33:14 36:16 reassemble 6:6 replication 8:1
16:9,11 25:3 38:11,15 39:21 reassembly 3:15 49:14,15
49:15 38:20 40:6 42:12,17 15:16 replications
36:25 17:23 49:21 50:1,2 2:12 51:9 reply 50:10
program 12:24 51:16,20 52:9 recipe 15:12 reply's 34:18
prohibit 25:21 43:10 44:1 recognized 15:13
19:4 properly 17:7 quote 28:17,17 reconfiguring reproduction
runs 28:10 30:7 42:1 35:14,14 38:4,5
16:14 15:23,24 17:14 15:23 47:19 21:7,12,21
S 2:1 3:1 32:19 35:14 single 18:23 33:25 34:4,7
37:21 says 6:18 12:24 53:22 13:5 15:21 speaker 54:8
51:18,19 19:21 44:9 separable 48:22 18:13,13,15,16 specific 17:15
6:21 7:8 4:14,23,25 23:10,13,20,23 22:7,21,22 26:23 29:1
5:23 6:2 11:10 separately 31:9 23:22,23 24:1 specify 32:15
23:7,19 38:23 24:24 25:1 25:18 26:10,11 spectrum 37:21
Scheherazade 41:4 42:25 36:2 37:21 standing 4:7
screen 36:12 series 8:21 11:5 49:15 50:5,5 start 16:23
29:23 31:1 24:23 32:6 19:7 States 1:1,12,19
secret 38:7 serious 4:9 5:21 46:13 6:20 7:14
25:2 see 29:16 37:7 shelf 20:11 somewhat 18:15 18:1 19:1,3,6
15:10 selling 3:11 36:20 51:22 26:1 28:6 29:6
27:6 17:24 18:4 shipped 15:5 sort 3:24 39:10 32:11 33:4
34:3,4,8 19:2 26:21 shore 17:2 43:2 50:25 35:8 40:14,23
37:15 semiconductor shrimp 27:3 52:15 41:12 42:20,21
40:24 35:25 side 17:25 19:19 sorts 46:8 44:22 45:9
52:23 send 27:11 19:21 31:14 sought 39:1 46:3,3 49:1
54:5 28:20,23 30:13 40:20,20 sound 31:7 53:15,18 54:4
14:2 switches 52:17 27:22 51:5,7 tire 20:18 36:14
36:21 structure 29:13 system 37:22 51:11 54:19,20 36:15
42:18 stuff 30:2 39:2 THEODORE tool 36:24
53:10,11 subject 17:7 1:15 2:3,13 3:6 totally 38:2 45:7
18:4 19:1 T 51:9 46:12
submit 4:18 take 16:8,10 thing 4:15,20 traditional 17:8
54:23 47:22 25:11,13 34:21 transferred 7:1
7:5,11 45:13,20 talking 15:18 54:17 24:4 31:16
sufficient 19:12 19:9 27:8 things 16:13 32:20 41:20
16:17 sufficiently 30:16,17 52:8 23:6 29:5 42:8 43:17,18 45:14
20:21 19:13 53:25 46:21,25 50:2 45:14
27:17,22 suggesting tangible 6:7 50:14,24 52:17 transmissions
32:8,16 15:11 7:17 15:19 52:21,25 54:13 11:21 43:14
33:8 suit 4:7,9,9 tantamount 54:18,19 transmit 41:13
supplied 6:9,18 15:25 think 5:13,16 45:19
6:20 7:3 9:14 teach 48:9 9:22 11:19 transmitting
51:7 10:2 13:20 technologies 16:2 18:10,14 31:20
54:20 14:18 16:15 26:16 19:10,12 20:7 treat 25:14,15
31:4,17 40:14 21:25 53:12 22:19 26:5 trumped-up 4:7
8:25 28:7 42:24 43:5,23 tell 32:24 48:15 34:9 36:6 truth 18:16
31:18 49:16 54:14,16 48:16 37:16 42:17 trying 32:23
51:18 supplies 28:3 telling 19:19 43:3 44:1 46:9 turning 20:18
54:9 31:19 46:2,3 tells 34:10,11 46:11 50:18,19 turns 25:1
supplying 6:12 template 15:12 thinking 26:11 8:20 10:19
suppose 4:3 5:10 territorial 26:13 26:25 43:13 32:22 42:16
41:20 36:17,17 39:21 17:1 16:8 46:11 typewriter
Supreme 1:1,12 test 30:21 tie 18:13 36:11
9:23 varying 31:23 40:24 41:3,9 28:12,16 36:9 1984 26:10
49:10 41:16,19 42:5 54:15
23:8,9 vast 43:12 42:8,16 43:20 work 27:7 29:19 2
32:9 vastly 25:19 44:23 45:2,5 46:20 47:11 2 49:1
37:25 26:4 27:14 45:23 46:23 48:6,10 2007 1:9
43:2,6 version 30:18 47:7 48:5,9,24 worked 29:24 21 1:9
vial 15:5 way 3:25 4:6,6 works 48:11 271(a) 53:25
12:1 21:13,15 24:14 11:10,12 30:25 world 27:5 271(b) 53:24,25
52:2 viewed 18:12,15 34:13 37:22 worried 45:11 271(f) 3:13 6:4
3:12,14 37:15 50:25 51:5 50:15
6:10,18 violated 36:22 Waymark 33:6 write 24:18 3
7:13 36:24 42:19 ways 11:4 14:1 writing 22:13,16 3 2:4
15:9,14 54:5 16:12 18:20 26:19 4
16:15 violates 45:8 39:3 52:12 written 23:4
7:6
17:3 violation 33:2,8 weaving 30:4 28:25
7:6
33:17 35:16 Webster's 50:7 wrote 23:2,3
19:3,6 42:11,21 53:24 Wednesday 1:9 5
25:21 went 9:1 X
28:6 29:6 We'll 3:3 x 1:2,7 5:7
32:19,25
33:4 wager 3:24 4:11 we're 44:3,3,4
40:14,23 4:16 52:8 53:25
42:20,21 walk 37:9 we've 14:16
45:8 want 27:18 45:5 whatsoever
48:25 wanted 5:11 49:12 York 32:19,21 7
54:4 18:25 wheel 36:15 32:24
28:7 31:18
0's 8:16,22 11:5
34:18,18 26:7 28:4
36:5 31:19 38:21 820 35:15
48:7 50:4 wire 49:25
27:23,24 05-1056 1:5 3:4 9
31:13 32:14,22 11:6 34:18 23:3,4 24:17
36:3,8 50:3,9
34:3,6 52:7 52:21
38:25 39:7,11 words 6:16,21 100,000 49:4
40:6,12,16,18 21:21 25:12 16 2:8
