IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
TIMOTHY SCOTT, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 05-1631
VICTOR HARRIS. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, February 26, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:48 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PHILIP W. SAVRIN, ESQ., Atlanta, Ga.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for the
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Petitioner.
CRAIG T. JONES, ESQ., Atlanta, Ga.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PHILIP W. SAVRIN, ESQ.,
On behalf of Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.,
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting Respondent 18
CRAIG T. JONES, ESQ.,
On behalf of Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PHILIP W. SAVRIN, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
[10:48 a.m.]
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 05-1631, Scott versus Harris.
Mr. Savrin.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PHILIP W. SAVRIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SAVRIN: Mr. Chief Justice, may it
please the Court:
This case concerns whether a police officer
could be held personally liable for using force to
terminate a dangerous high-speed pursuit. The
undisputed facts show that Deputy Scott did not violate
the Fourth Amendment. Respondent had led the police
officers on a nine-mile pursuit at exceptionally high
speeds. As the videotapes that have been admitted in
evidence show, Respondent was driving on narrow two-lane
roads at night. He swerved across the double line to
pass cars that were in his path, actually traveling in
the wrong lane of travel. He ran through a number of
red lights. He weaved through a shopping center and
collided with Deputy Scott's vehicle.
Deputy Scott at that point had tried to
block the exit from the shopping center, but Mr. Harris
was successful in using his vehicle to escape. At that
point, he continued driving at exceptionally high
speeds.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Can I ask this question
about the shopping center. Wouldn't your case be
exactly the same if the shopping center incident had not
occurred?
MR. SAVRIN: It would, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So that we really don't
have to get distracted by the shopping center?
MR. SAVRIN: There is a -- yes, Your Honor.
There is a factual dispute as far as whether Deputy
Scott's vehicle collided with Mr. Harris' vehicle or
vice versa, but we do not believe that that is a
material dispute. We believe that the fact, the
undisputed fact, that Mr. Harris was driving at such
exceptionally high rate of speeds -- and to put in
context, 90 miles per hour, which is the average speed,
and of course --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not sure why you
concede that. I mean, I looked at the case and it
seemed to me it's a case involving the whole ball of
wax. And I suspect my reaction to that tape was in part
affected by the fact that he went through the shopping
center, came out and crashed into a police car, which is
what Scott saw.
MR. SAVRIN: But Scott -- yes, Your Honor, I
think that is part of the analysis.
JUSTICE BREYER: So how do I know whether,
which of these things is directly or not indirectly --
well, you go ahead. But I mean, are you -- am I not
supposed to look at the part which involves the shopping
center?
MR. SAVRIN: Absolutely, Your Honor. My
point was that, the point was that there was a
collision, not who caused the collision, whether the
deputy pulled into Mr. Harris' line of travel or
Mr. Harris pulled towards the deputy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is the rule that you
propose that the policeman must balance the risk of harm
to others versus the risk of harm to the fleeing person?
MR. SAVRIN: Your Honor -- yes, essentially.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your brief says that the
officer reasonably believes that doing so, i.e.,
terminating the chase, would avoid a greater risk of
bodily injury or death.
MR. SAVRIN: Yes, Your Honor. And we
believe --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Greater than what?
Greater than --
MR. SAVRIN: Greater than not taking action.
In other words, that the harm --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Without reference to the
possible harm to the driver? I just want to know what
you're testing.
MR. SAVRIN: I think that -- I think that is
one of the factors to be considered.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know that I agree
with that. I mean, if this fellow driving 90 miles an
hour is responsible for endangering people, you're
proposing a rule that says if there's a 50 percent
chance that he'll hurt some innocent person and a 50
percent chance that he'll get hurt if you try to stop
him, you shouldn't do anything. I don't agree with
that.
MR. SAVRIN: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'd stop him. I mean, he's
the fellow that's causing the danger, endangerment,
isn't he?
MR. SAVRIN: Yes, Your Honor, I would agree
with that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think you're giving away
too much.
MR. SAVRIN: One thing I did want to point
out is that a speed of 90 miles per hour -- and of
course there's evidence in the record that the vehicles
were at times traveling over 100 miles an hour --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I didn't mean to put words
in your mouth. It seems to me your test might be
whether there is a greater risk in stopping him or not
stopping him as to other people, without reference to
the risk to himself.
MR. SAVRIN: Yes, that's probably a better
articulation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it's your brief. I
want you to --
MR. SAVRIN: I think that's a better
articulation of what the appropriate test would be, the
way --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, isn't the speed also
relevant to the likelihood that -- that running into a
car at that speed would cause the death of a driver?
MR. SAVRIN: It would, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't it a fair high
probability that if you hit someone at that speed that
there will be something, either death or serious injury
as a result?
MR. SAVRIN: Your Honor, my answer to that
question would be that that's always going to be the
case whenever force is used to stop a vehicle at this
high rate of speed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I suppose there is
also a high probability where you're going 90 miles an
hour on a one-way road, crossing over the double yellow
line, with oncoming traffic, that you're going to hurt
somebody else.
MR. SAVRIN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, the more you
increase the speed the more likely he's going to be
hurt. But also the more likely if you let him go
somebody else is going to be hurt.
MR. SAVRIN: Yes, Your Honor. And to put it
in a more complete perspective, 90 miles an hour is
mathematically equivalent to over 130 feet per second.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Mr. Savrin, there was
an episode in the parking lot where things came to a
temporary halt. If Scott had stopped pursuing Harris at
that point, maybe Harris would not -- maybe he would
have slowed down. If he was -- he was trying to flee
from the police, but if the police weren't after him
there is no indication that he would have been speeding.
MR. SAVRIN: Well, Your Honor, I would
disagree with that, that in fact --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, he was
speeding before the police knew about him, right?
That's the whole, where this all started.
MR. SAVRIN: The initial offense was
speeding, and Mr. Harris, instead of pulling over or
slowing down as would might be expected by a reasonable
person, sped up and continued to drive recklessly.
We would contend that it was Mr. Harris that
was in control of the force that the officers need to
terminate, the risk that he presented. At any time, any
time, Mr. Harris could have either slowed down his
vehicle or stopped, and he chose not to do that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, do you contend that
an officer can always use deadly force to stop a
high-speed driver who's creating this kind of a risk?
MR. SAVRIN: I think it depends on how you
define deadly force. Of course, there can be different
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: Running into him with a
high probability that he'll get killed.
MR. SAVRIN: I think that, that would be the
case, as I indicated, whenever an officer uses force to
stop a vehicle at this speed. I think there is -- if it
is deadly force, and of course this Court has not
articulated a test of that particular question --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Wasn't that acknowledged
in the district court, in the trial court?
MR. SAVRIN: In this case?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
MR. SAVRIN: No, the district court found
that it did not need to resolve whether or not -- -
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the jury might find
that it was deadly force.
MR. SAVRIN: The Eleventh Circuit found that
the jury might conclude it was deadly force.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And do you conclude that
the jury could not find that it was deadly force?
MR. SAVRIN: I believe, again, Your Honor, I
believe that it depends on how broad the test is. The
Model Penal Code test, which most of the circuit
courts --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, but is your -- is
it your view that a jury could not find on these facts
that there was deadly force?
MR. SAVRIN: I believe, yes, under, under
the test as articulated in some of the circuits, yes,
this would not be deadly force. Of course, what we're
saying is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought we had a test
for deadly force in Garner and it's whether or not there
is -- it's more likely than not, whether or not there is
a serious risk that death will ensue. That's the test,
Garner.
MR. SAVRIN: Your Honor, as I read the
Garner opinion, the court did not need to reach a
definition of deadly force because shooting someone in
the back of the head is clearly going to be deadly
force. The circuit courts -- I can tell you that the
circuit courts in the wake of Garner have said that
Garner did not create a test and have created different
tests along the lines of the Model Penal Code to reach
that definition. But the point -- I was going to say a
point that I would like to make is that there are
degrees even within the continuum that might be within a
definition of deadly force, such as using a vehicle to
make contact, blowing out the tires, using stop sticks,
using a firearm. Those have different degrees of
potential lethality, so even if they are all considered
deadly force there are decisions that an officer has to
make.
JUSTICE ALITO: What test, what of deadly
force would not be met here?
MR. SAVRIN: A likelihood -- -
JUSTICE ALITO: Considering that it's a
summary judgment issue.
MR. SAVRIN: Yes, Your Honor. I would say
that the Third Circuit decision in the Philadelphia
litigation case, where the officers dropped a bomb on a
building in order to gain access and they ended up
killing 11 people. The Court found that that was not
deadly force because the officers were trying to gain
access to the building and they reasonably believe that
they were able to do that without the loss of life. I
think that if that definition were applied to this case,
then I think that this would not be deadly force. But I
think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Finish that.
MR. SAVRIN: I'm sorry. I keep interrupting
you.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. He reasonably
-- because Scott reasonably believed that he could bump
the car off the road at 90 miles an hour without risking
the driver's life? Is that why it's like the Third
Circuit case?
MR. SAVRIN: Your Honor, his intent was to
end the pursuit, not to cause an accident.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but the Third Circuit
case you just described didn't talk about intent. It
talked about reasonable belief.
MR. SAVRIN: Well, let me cite another case
then, the Adams case from the Eleventh Circuit.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Before do you that, will
you go back to the Philadelphia case. Do you contend
that a jury could find that he reasonably believed that
he would not cause, that he would not raise a serious
risk of death or serious bodily harm by bumping the car
at 90 miles an hour?
MR. SAVRIN: Yes, Your Honor. And if I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I don't understand that.
How could such a belief be reasonable? What am I
missing here?
MR. SAVRIN: Let me cite the Court to the
Eleventh Circuit's own reasoning in the Adams case. And
that case involves a misdemeanant where the officer
intentionally made contact with the vehicle several
times. The last contact caused the death of a
passenger. The Eleventh Circuit found that Garner did
not apply to that situation and further said that a
policeman's use of his vehicle is very different from a
policeman's use of his gun.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That doesn't answer my
question.
MR. SAVRIN: I'm sorry, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why, why would it be
reasonable to believe that a car could be bumped at 90
miles an hour plus without raising a substantial risk of
death or serious bodily harm? How could such a belief
be reasonable?
MR. SAVRIN: Because there are vehicle
collisions every day, Your Honor, that do not end in
death or serious bodily harm.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Some people are lucky.
We're talking about creating a substantial risk. How
would it be reasonable to assume that one would not
create a substantial risk?
MR. SAVRIN: Your Honor, because Mr. Harris
could have regained control of his vehicle. The point
is that Mister -- that the Petitioner had limited
options based on the manner in which Mr. Harris was
driving. Even if this would be considered deadly force,
we do believe it would be justified under the
circumstances.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's a different
issue and you may prevail on other arguments in the
case. But as to whether or not there's a likelihood or
a reasonable likelihood of serious injury, it seems to
me that's clearly a question for the jury. I mean, we
might argue about it up here, but that's classic jury
question, isn't it?
MR. SAVRIN: I believe in the context of the
Fourth Amendment and the Graham factors and the question
of probable cause, that it's not the same as simply a
jury question. But I do concede that if it's not deadly
force it's very close to it. But I think the important
thing is that, whatever force Mister -- the Petitioner
used was limited by Mr. Harris' driving.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Savrin, one technique
that Officer Scott asked permission to use was described
as a PIT technique that would be a life and limb-
sparing measure. One oddity about this case is that he
called and asked permission to use that less risky
method and yet when he determined that he couldn't do
that, given the speed of the vehicles, he didn't ask
permission to do what he did do, which was
life-endangering.
MR. SAVRIN: Your Honor, if I could respond
to that in two respects. First, it is not, it is not
the case that the PIT maneuver, as it's commonly called,
is safe. What it does is spin the car out, and if
Mr. Harris' vehicle had been spun out in this case it is
more likelihood that he would have lost control. In
other words, it causes the vehicle to lose control.
The second response I would have is that the
Petitioner did ask permission to do the PIT maneuver and
the permission that the supervisor gave, which was Mr.
Faninger that's in the record undisputed, was to use
force up to deadly force. So Mr. --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where is that?
MR. SAVRIN: That's in Mark Faninger's
deposition, and he is the supervisor that was ---
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And he said he gave
permission for more than PIT procedure?
MR. SAVRIN: Yes, Your Honor. His testimony
was that he was giving, he believes he was giving
permission up to and including deadly force.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, the phrase used was
"take him out," wasn't it?
MR. SAVRIN: Yes. Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Does a police officer have
any obligation in a situation like this to consider
other alternatives, and if so what other alternatives
might have been available to this officer?
MR. SAVRIN: Yes, Justice Stevens. I think
the officer had very limited options, two options at
that point: Either use force or let Mr. Harris go. And
I think it was a balancing of --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And even with letting him
go, isn't it possible they could get other roadblocks up
ahead or get other people involved in the attempt to
catch him?
MR. SAVRIN: Yes, there always are other
potentials. However, I would submit that a vehicle
traveling at 130 feet per second can do a lot of damage
in a very short period of time before the police
officers can figure out what route he's going to take.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't it true that there's
no traffic on the road at that particular time?
MR. SAVRIN: Deputy Scott took the action
that he did because there was a low likelihood of injury
to third parties other than to Mr. Harris because there
was no one in his immediate path of travel.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, in that circumstance
why wouldn't he just consider discontinuing the chase?
MR. SAVRIN: Because there were -- the
videotape shows that Mr. Harris passed approximately 36
cars during this period of time. 12 seconds before the
contact was made, a vehicle was passed by Mr. Harris.
There was a high likelihood, in fact a probability, that
this case was going to end in tragedy, and Deputy Scott
took the action that he could.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would that have been
likely if the officer had discontinued the chase?
MR. SAVRIN: Whether he discontinued the
chase or not, Mr. Harris could still injure whoever
might be around the next corner, Your Honor.
If there are no further questions, I'd like
to save my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Savrin.
Mr. Garre?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE.
FOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE
SUPPORTING PETITIONER
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
When a suspect disobeys a lawful command to
stop, races off in a reckless attempt to elude the
police, and demonstrates a disregard for his own life
and the lives of others in his path, the police may use
force, including deadly force, to bring the suspect's
vehicle flight to a halt and protect the public safety.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does it matter
exactly what the nature of the escape was? Are we
supposed to evaluate whether this was reckless enough?
Well, let's say the driver did not go off 90 miles an
hour. Let's say he obeyed the speed limit. He just
wasn't going to stop. Does that make it a different
case?
MR. GARRE: It does, Your Honor. The key
determination is whether the officer on the scene
reasonably determines that the vehicle poses a
substantial risk to other motorists or the police in his
way.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I would think that would
apply to all high-speed cases; would you not agree?
MR. GARRE: I agree that it does, Justice
Kennedy. Here what you have is an individual who's
going extraordinarily high speeds, 80 to 100 miles an
hour. An individual who has passed cars, crossed the
double, double line; there were numerous motors, motor
vehicles on the night. And an individual who has ran
red lights, an individual who when three police cars --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes. But that was while
he was being chased, right? Before being chased he
hadn't done any of this. He was going 72 miles an hour
in a 55-mile zone, isn't that right.
MR. GARRE: Well, that's true, Your Honor.
But as the Court said in the Sacramento versus Lewis
case, we don't blame police for the individual's
reckless flight in that context. We don't blame police
that Respondent made a decision to just --
JUSTICE STEVENS: No but if you're thinking
of the likelihood of harm if they discontinued the
chase, is it not reasonable to assume he might go back
to going 72 miles an hour in a 55-mile zone?
MR. GARRE: Not on this record, Justice
Stevens. In this particular --
JUSTICE SC ALIA: It would might also be
reasonable to assume that anyone who was chased by the
police will immediately speed up to 90 miles an hour.
MR. GARRE: That's exactly right, Justice Sc
alia.
JUSTICE SC ALIA: It doesn't seem to me a
very good rule to give to police forces: Anybody who's
going 72 miles an hour, let him go. Or at least if he
hits 90, let him go.
MR. GARRE: We agree, Justice Scalia. As
Justice Kennedy put it Sacramento versus Lewis, if
there's a real danger --
JUSTICE STEVENS: There isn't a question.
There is a question of whether it justifies the use of
deadly force, to prevent this -- this situation.
MR. GARRE: The question in our mind,
Justice Stevens, is whether Deputy Scott reasonably
believed that Respondent posed a serious risk of injury
or death to other motor vehicles, bystanders or police
on the roadway that night.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why are these absolute? I
mean I looked at Garner and then I looked at Graham and
Graham which came later said that all claims that
officers have used excessive force, deadly or not,
should be analyzed under the Fourth Amendment and its
reasonableness standard. So I guess-- isn't that right,
isn't that the law?
MR. GARRE: We agree, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, if that's the
law, then whether -- of course an automobile could,
could kill people. Of course it can. So can a lot of
things. But an automobile isn't a gun, and a chase on
the highway is not a chase through a back yard, though
both could end up with the person being chased dead.
So aren't we supposed to look at all the
circumstances, including the circumstance of what -- one
that interests me, one, is that the right standard?
Two, did Scott know that the reason he was chasing this
person was because he had violated a speed limit, or was
he ignorant of the reason why the individual was racing
away at 90 miles an hour, which is as far as the record
could show?
MR. GARRE: Justice Breyer, to answer the
second question first, Scott did not know that he was
initially in a chase.
JUSTICE BREYER: And a reasonable juror
could not conclude to the contrary?
MR. GARRE: Well, Scott, I believe, Scott's
testimony was that he did not know. What Scott knew,
and he was engaged in the chase, was this is an
individual who had crossed cars, crossed the double
yellow line. This was an individual who had ran red
lights. This was an individual, when three police squad
cars converged on him in the shopping center parking
lot, collided with them and ran off into the highway,
reaching again speeds up to 90 miles an hour.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it reasonable for
him to suppose that there might be something more going
on if the guy is trying this hard to get away from a
speeding ticket? That presents he presents a danger to
the community quite apart from the driving?
MR. GARRE: Absolutely.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that a factor
that goes into the analysis?
MR. GARRE: It is, certainly, at a
commonsense level. Statistic show that most vehicles
who flee in this fashion, oftentimes there is alcohol or
drug abuse involved, oftentimes they are stolen
vehicles. We don't think --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What if they knew there
were drugs in the car that he would dispose of if he had
got caught. Would that justify this using deadly force?
MR. GARRE: I'm not sure that it would,
Justice Scalia -- uh, Justice Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm rather clear it would
not, isn't it? Because that would be no more serious
than the crime in Garner, would it?
MR. GARRE: Well -- that's true. The key,
the key point about this case is the threat that
Respondent posed in the -- suspects who engage in high
speed vehicle chases pose to the public, and that is,
that is fundamentally different from Garner for the
reason that you mentioned. Garner involved --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But your position would be
the same even if Scott knew that the only reason they
were trying to stop him initially was the speeding
violation?
MR. GARRE: Yes. It doesn't matter why the
chase began. The point is that when Scott made the
decision to use force against Respondent, he reasonably
determined that Respondent posed a grave threat to other
motorists, the police and any bystanders who might come
in his way.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why, why wouldn't it
matter? I mean, other things being equal, suppose that
he known that all that happens, suppose he was two miles
beyond the speed limit. And Scott knew the whole thing
or Scott was the one who did it, and he says maybe he is
a young kid who is frightened and he has his license
number and he could get him later. I mean, why wouldn't
it be nutty to -- to try to bump somebody off the road,
when all, that's all that's at stake?
MR. GARRE: Because, Your Honor, regardless
of the reason the chase began, at the moment that Deputy
Scott used the force, this car posed a serious risk to
everyone else on the road that night. Someone traveling
90 miles an hour, up to 90 miles an hour, on a two-lane
windy road with numerous cars passing during this course
of the chase, it was that threat that Deputy Scott acted
against when he used that force, and that was a
reasonable use of force. It's reasonable regardless of
whether or not this Court determines --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you deal with the
Brower case? That it was a 193 -- 83 action against the
police for setting up a roadblock to catch a speeder.
And the Court said that the roadblock was enough to give
rise to a 1983 claim?
MR. GARRE: Justice Ginsburg, the holding in
that case was that a roadblock amounted to a seizure.
And we don't, no one disputes there was a seizure in
this case when Deputy Scott intentionally used force to
put Respondents off the road. So it respect, Brower
doesn't speak to the question in this case, which is
whether or not that use of force was reasonable under
the circumstances.
Justice Kennedy in the Sacramento versus
Lewis case, in his concurring opinion, say that there
was a real danger of adopting a constitutional rule that
suspects are free to disobey lawful commands.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I just make this one
point? Is it correct that the issue is whether it's
reasonable or is the issue whether a jury could find it
unreasonable?
MR. GARRE: Well, the -- ultimately to
determine whether this decision could be made at the
summary judgment stage you would have to consider
whether a jury could find it unreasonable. Here, on the
relevant undisputed facts, we submit as a matter of law,
Deputy Scott reasonably believed that this force was
necessary under the circumstances.
And the final point that I wanted to make,
going back to Justice Kennedy's concurrence, is that
there is a real danger in adopting that kind of
constitutional rule, that it will encourage more
suspects to flee, and will only increase the danger to
the public and to police and to motorists in these high
speed chases. I would urge this Court to reverse the
decision below. If there are no further questions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Garre.
Mr. Jones.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CRAIG T. JONES,
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MR. JONES: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court.
I'd like to begin by responding to some of
the questions that were asked of Petitioner. First of
all, Officer Scott himself admitted in his testimony
that he knew at the time that he was using deadly force,
and he realized at the time that he was likely to cause
injury or -- death or serious injury to Mr. Harris.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there any doubt
that Mr. Harris was likely to cause death or serious
injury to the other cars on the highway that he was
passing?
MR. JONES: Mr. Harris was simply a -- an
unsafe driver. There is always a risk at driving in
excess of speed limit, driving in violation of traffic
laws. But that risk in and of itself is not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We are not talking
about driving in violation of traffic laws. We talking
about 90 miles an hour on a two-lane highway, swerving
past cars in the incoming traffic --
MR. JONES: Well, we're talking --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Hitting -- after
hitting Officer Scott's car and continuing on. That's a
little more than just unsafe.
MR. JONES: Well, those are not the facts
before the Court, Mr. Chief Justice. The facts are that
he was driving fast but he was under control. He only
crossed the center line to pass and when he passed, he
used his turn signal when he passed.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: He used the turning
signal. That's like the strangler who observes the no
smoking sign.
(Laughter.)
MR. JONES: When he turned into the -- when
he turned into the shopping center he wasn't weaving
through a parking lot. He was going through a private
access road in a shopping mall which was closed at 11
o'clock at night. And the collision, the impact
occurred when Officer Scott, who was going too fast to
make the turn into the shopping center, went up to the
next intersection, came around the other way to head my
client off at the pass. And then what happened was that
Mr. Harris took evasive action to a avoid collision when
Mr. Harris -- excuse me when Officer Scott -- put
himself right in Mr. Harris' way.
JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Jones, I looked at the
videotape on this. It seemed to me that he created a
tremendous risk of drivers on that road. Is that an
unreasonable way of looking at the -- at this tape?
JUSTICE SCALIA: He created the scariest
chase I ever saw since "The French Connection."
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is frightening.
MR. JONES: As a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: A frightening amount of
speed, and cars coming in the opposite direction, at
night, on a two-lane windy road --
MR. JONES: Well, as the Court below found,
and as the tape indicates, Mr. Harris didn't run anybody
off the road. He didn't ram anybody. He didn't try to
ram anybody. He was just driving away.
JUSTICE SOUTER: The question was whether he
was creating a substantial risk doing that.
MR. JONES: He was creating --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And my, my question is how
could a jury find otherwise? Your answer up to this
point is that well, he used signal lights and his
reflexes were good, and they sure were. But the
question is whether he was creating a substantial risk
of death or serious bodily harm to others. And my
question is leaving -- assuming that his reflexes were
good and he knew how to use the signal lights, how could
the jury fail to find that he was creating such a risk?
MR. JONES: Well, the jury could certainly
find he's creating a risk. But with regard to the other
Garner factors that must be shown before deadly force
can be used, he had not committed a violent felony, a
crime involving the infliction or threat of infliction
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: Garner was not talking
about someone who at the time the deadly force was used
was himself creating a substantial risk of death or
serious bodily harm to others. That's what we are
dealing with here. And the reasonableness of the
officer's action depends on whether, at the summary
judgment stage, a jury can reasonably find that, in
fact, he was not creating at that moment, a substantial
risk of serious bodily harm or death to others. And my
question is, how could a jury find anything else?
MR. JONES: Well, a jury could find that the
pursuit by the officer escalated the risk rather than
diminishing the risk to others. And that given a choice
between using deadly force to terminate a pursuit where
the officer himself had escalated the risk versus
backing off, letting the offender escape and then
perhaps arresting him an hour later at the house.
JUSTICE BREYER: Did Scott, know that? Did
Scott -- Do you have evidence to show that Scott knew
that the underlying offense was a speeding violation?
MR. JONES: We have evidence that it was
called out on the radio. "I'm pursuing somebody."
Whether Scott knew we don't know.
JUSTICE BREYER: And Scott has testified he
didn't know it.
MR. JONES: Scott has testified he --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, do you think you can
get to the jury on the question of whether he knew it.
MR. JONES: Scott --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'd like a yes or no
answer.
MR. JONES: The testimony --
JUSTICE BREYER: That doesn't sound like yes
or no.
MR. JONES: I'm not certain I understand the
question.
JUSTICE BREYER: The question is, can you
get to the jury on the question of whether Scott knew
that the underlying offense was for speeding?
MR. JONES: Scott did not know that was it.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If Scott didn't
know it, I mean, my goodness, then I don't see the
relevance of whether it was speeding or not. And I was
with you when I read the -- the opinion of the court
below. And I read the other brief. I was on the other
side. Then I've been shifting back and forth. Then I
look at that tape, and I have to say that when I looked
at the tape, my reaction was somewhat similar to Justice
Alito's. And so if it's doubtful and then you can't
even show that the person who did it knew that this was
for speeding rather than for murder, how can you get to
the jury?
MR. JONES: Well, there is certainly a
credibility issue as to whether Scott says he knew or
didn't know. I mean, certainly the call on the radio he
could have acquired. The thing is that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, as the Chief Justice
indicated through a question earlier, isn't it
reasonable for an officer to assume that it is -- he is
trying to escape because there is something more serious
than speeding at stake? I mean, that's the assumption I
would draw.
MR. JONES: That assumption would not be
based upon probability or based upon police training.
Officers in pursuit situations are trying to believe --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You mean just as many
people take off in high speed chases for speeding as for
serious crimes?
MR. JONES: The vast majority have committed
minor crimes. And it's not a rational --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But at the moment Scott
came into this case, what difference does that make?
Why is that even relevant? Let's assume Scott knew that
this entire situation had eventuated out of an 18 mile
in excess of speed act by the individual. Assume that.
What Scott also knew at the point at which
he joined the chase was that this individual was driving
a car at 90 miles an hour. He was crossing yellow
lines, going through red lights, et cetera. At that
point, wasn't the only legally relevant data whether or
not Harris was creating the risk of death or bodily harm
to others?
MR. JONES: That's the issue. Was there an
immediate risk of death or serious bodily harm --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So you agree that whether
Scott knew or didn't know, that this whole scenario had
eventuated out of a speeding situation was irrelevant?
MR. JONES: It's not relevant. It's
relevant to that termination. Yeah, the issue is, is
there an immediate risk. But one of the factors that is
significant is what is the severity of the underlying
crime. And if it is a crime of violence, then certainly
the officer is entitled to presume --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's exactly where I
started. And I wondered -- that's what I'm uncertain
about the standard for this. Because as you and the
others have been arguing, if the question is one about
rules surrounding the use of deadly force. But then
when I read what I read out to you, in Graham, it seemed
to me that Graham, which comes after Garner, says that's
not the standard. Graham is a standard of simple
reasonableness and Garner is simply an illustration of
that as applied to guns and a backyard chase, not as
applied to cars which threaten other people much more.
MR. JONES: Well, that's a good question.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what is the standard?
Am I supposed to apply -- am I not supposed to apply
Graham?
MR. JONES: Well, whether you apply Garner
or Graham, the result is the same in this case. And let
me explain why. What Graham did is it expanded the
Garner rule, which you can't use deadly force to stop a
fleeing suspect who is merely fleeing, expanded that to
include the entire range of use of force, deadly or
nondeadly.
And with regard to the factors that are to
be considered in determining whether the use of force is
reasonable under Graham, the balance with respect to a
fleeing suspect who is subjected to deadly force was
already drawn by Garner. Garner created a bright light
rule. Graham extended that to an ad hoc balancing test
with all use of force applications. But with respect to
deadly force and a fleeing suspect, Garner still
provides a bright line rule.
JUSTICE BREYER: So you're saying I cannot
do the following under the law, which would seem to be
contrary to common sense, to say there is a big
difference between a policeman shooting a person who is
running away and threatens no harm to others, and a
policeman using a gun -- using a car on a highway to try
to get a person to stop who is threatening others. I
have to treat those exactly as if they were the same
thing.
MR. JONES: Yes. And Garner, this Court's
decision in Garner and this Court's decision in Brower,
which was written by Justice Scalia, basically to quote
Brower in both cases. In the Brower versus County of
Inyo --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The Eleventh Circuit
gave the exact opposite answer in the Adams case, which
if you're looking at what the -- was clearly established
law from the point of view of the officer that provides
him guidance that the Garner case does not dictate a
result in the use of deadly force in the police chase
case involving an automobile.
MR. JONES: Well, the holding of the Adams
versus St. Lucie County case was that in 1985, an
incident which occurred six weeks after the Garner
decision and four years before the Brower decision,
there is no way the officers could have known at that
time that their act of ramming a police car to prevent
an escape of another fleeing vehicle would have been
considered deadly force in violation of the Fourth
Amendment. As the dissent pointed out in the, in the
Adams case, though, certainly as of the Court's decision
in 1993, this was now clearly established. You had
Brower saying that it's a seizure, and then you had this
Court saying that now the law was clearly established
where it wasn't before --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So when Officer
Scott was trying to figure out what the law was, he
should have relied on the dissent in the case?
MR. JONES: Well, another case came about
later which held that as early as 1998 in another case
involving the same department, that there was clearly
established law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was there any case at the
time of the action in this case, any decision that said
ramming, ramming a car to end a chase violates the
Fourth Amendment?
MR. JONES: Brower versus County of Inyo
says --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Brower was a roadblock
case.
MR. JONES: It was a roadblock which
produced a collision, a physical impact between
vehicles. And that was the -- that was the distinction
which Justice Scalia latched onto in that case, and said
that the mere fact that the person was fleeing by car in
Brower was no different than the burglar fleeing by foot
in Garner. Either one of them --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the issue in the case
was quite simply whether there had been a seizure.
Isn't that the issue?
MR. JONES: That was the first holding. The
second holding was that the Plaintiff had sufficiently
claimed a cause of action on the seizure. And then it
went back to the lower court to be considered under the
Garner analysis. And what I liked about your decision
-- excuse me, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead. Finish
your --
MR. JONES: What I liked about your decision
in that case, Justice Scalia, was that you said that the
officer's culpability for using excessive force is not
diminished by the fact that perpetrator chose to
continue running, whether it was the fleeing burglar in
Garner or the fleeing driver in Brower. Excuse me,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If I could just get
back to an earlier point. You think what the officer
should have done in this case was to let Mr. Harris go.
MR. JONES: That was one option. He could
have continued the pursuit and simply decided not to mow
him off the road at 90 miles an hour, or he could have
stopped a pursuit and let him go which often happens in
many pursuits.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even though he
doesn't know at that point that he will ever be able to
arrest him later. He doesn't know if it's a stolen car
or not.
MR. JONES: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And he doesn't know
why he is being pursued, whether it's for mass murder or
terrorism or anything else.
MR. JONES: Well, that's correct. But in
the majority of cases -- and this is the only testimony
in this record, Your Honors. Our experts testified on a
study -- based on a study which was commissioned for him
by the Department of Justice, a study which has been
cited by some of the amicus briefs on both sides in this
case, Dr. Albert testified that 70 percent of the time,
when police back off pursuit, the perpetrator stops
running and they resume safe driving. And when the car
is stolen, most of the time --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Once they have
gotten away, I assume.
MR. JONES: Well, sometimes you have to let
them get away. In Garner, it says, even if the guy has
just broken into somebody's house in the middle of the
night and committed a felony, if the choice is letting
them go or using deadly force when the factors
authorizing deadly force are not present, you have to
let him go.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not if he is shooting his
way out of the house and endangering other people.
MR. JONES: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, that's a factor
here, of course. If he has taken the jewelry and he's
gone off into the night, if shooting at him might
endanger somebody else, or even kill him, you have to
let him go. I'm talking about a burglar who is, you
know, who is shooting as he leaves.
MR. JONES: You can shoot him. I'd be there
shooting him, too.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course you can shoot
him.
MR. JONES: Let me take that distinction and
apply it to the vehicle, Justice Scalia. What we have
to have to authorize deadly force in this context is
something more than just unsafe flight. You've got to
have someone who is behaving violently, who is menacing
people, trying to ram people.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me as of the
time he exited the parking lot, by that point, had he
committed any felonies?
MR. JONES: No. All he had done was taken
evasive action to avoid an officer who --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: 90 miles an hour would not
be a felony, not a reckless driving?
MR. JONES: Are you talking about the
traffic pursuit?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. JONES: No, none of those are felonies
under Georgia law.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: At no point did he commit
a felony?
MR. JONES: No, Your Honor. It's not even a
felony in Georgia.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he certainly
committed a lot of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If he had intended to hit
the police officer, was it --
MR. JONES: If he had intended to hit the
police officer, if that was shown by the evidence, so
they could have charged with aggravated assault. They
didn't do that. They left traffic citations in his
hospital room. They never arrested him. They never
prosecuted him.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The key point is that he
is endangering the lives and safety of others. Anyone
who has watched that tape has got to come to that
conclusion, looking at the road and the way that this
car was swerving, and the cars coming in the opposite
direction. This was a situation fraught with danger.
MR. JONES: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I hope I
don't have you on my jury if that's -- but what the
trial court found was that construing the facts in a
light most favorable to the Plaintiff as a nonmoving
party, that reasonable jurors can find that this was
simply a person who was driving fast. This was not a
person who was driving assaultively. He wasn't driving
violently. He wasn't a threat to anyone that would
authorize the use of deadly force against him.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that a factual finding
of the, of the trial court here?
MR. JONES: That is a factual finding.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are we bound by that fact?
MR. JONES: We are bound by that. This is
an interlocutory appeal, this an interlocutory appeal
under Mitchell v. Forsythe, and the Court is bound by
its own ruling to accept the facts as found by the court
below, and decide the narrow issue of law here which is,
one, is there a constitutional violation on these facts.
And two, was the law clearly established.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even if having watched the
tape, there is no way that, that factual finding can be
accurate?
MR. JONES: If you want to repeal Johnson v.
Jones and Mitchell v. Forsythe, then yes. This is the
Supreme Court. You can make that determination.
But based upon the prior rulings of this
Court, this Court is bound to accept the findings of
fact of the courts below, and then to determine solely
the legal issue on an interlocutory basis. The bottom
line issue here, Your Honors, is whether the fact that
someone is driving in violation of traffic laws in and
of itself can be justification for the use of deadly
force.
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't see how -- I mean,
you know, given our prior discussion here, I don't see
how that's the issue. Because you say we have to assume
that the Defendant here didn't know that, in fact, all
that was at issue was a violation of the traffic law.
MR. JONES: Well, I'm not talking about the
underlying violation here. I'm talking about the
conduct observed by the officer who made the decision to
use deadly force.
JUSTICE BREYER: That conduct -- it could be
conduct -- you could say exactly your same question,
just as the Chief just said. I mean, I don't know how
to get around this. You could say the question was,
does a person who reasonably thinks he might be being
pursued for a murder --
MR. JONES: This is the issue. This is the
issue. If what this person is doing is driving, say
driving unsafely, but they are not driving violently,
they are not driving aggressively, they are not menacing
anyone on the road. They are simply driving fast trying
to get away, that in and of itself, is that going to be
justification for the use of deadly force or is
something more going to be required?
JUSTICE ALITO: When someone is fleeing and
creating a grave danger, let's just assume that that's
the case, creating a very danger for other drivers on
the road, when in your view is it reasonable for the
police to use deadly force to stop that, as opposed to
breaking off the chase? What, what is the test.
MR. JONES: Well, under Garner the test is
they have to be threatening violence or inflicting
violence against someone. There have to be no other
alternatives other than deadly force available to effect
the apprehension. And assuming there is justification
for deadly force, then there is a duty to give a warning
where feasible before using deadly force. And the court
below felt none of those three factors --
JUSTICE ALITO: How could you possibly give
a warning in this situation?
MR. JONES: It's academic in this case,
because the first two factors were not met. I mean,
it's our position that you don't worry about giving a
warning unless you have the right to use deadly force,
and if you don't get to that point then it's -- it's a
moot question.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why wasn't there warning?
There were lights, there were sirens. Surely the
defendant knew that the police were trying to stop him.
MR. JONES: There was certainly warning that
he needed -- that he was expected to pull over. There
was no warning of any intent to use deadly force.
JUSTICE BREYER: What am I -- you said
factually. What am I supposed to assume? You said in
light of -- I mean, I looked at the tape and that tape
shows he is weaving on both sides of the lane, swerving
around automobiles that are coming in the opposite
direction with their lights on, goes through a red light
where there are several cars that are right there,
weaves around them, and there are cars coming the other
way, weaves back, goes down the road.
Now, what in fact -- am I supposed to
pretend I haven't seen that? What am I supposed to
pretend to here?
MR. JONES: Well, I didn't see that.
JUSTICE BREYER: You didn't see that?
MR. JONES: I --
JUSTICE BREYER: You didn't -- I thought
that -- you didn't see that?
MR. JONES: Well, the point is most people
use the word weaving to describe the motion of
Mr. Harris's car is when they are going through the, the
shopping center --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I -- what I saw is
he is driving down one lane, what I mean by weaving, and
this lane goes with me in traffic. And there is some
cars in front of him, so he goes in the other lane where
the cars are now coming right directly at him. And then
before they hit him, he goes back to the first lane and
he does this while going through a red light, it seemed
to me.
Am I -- did I mis-see that? I'll go look at
it again if you --
MR. JONES: The -- feel free to look at it
again.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah.
MR. JONES: But those are not the facts that
were found by the court below in this --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well that's, that's what I
wonder. If the court says that isn't what happened, and
I see with my eyes that is what happened, what am I
supposed to do?
MR. JONES: Well, I think you apply the law,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The district --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under, under -- under your
rule, what you're concerned with is the bumping, the use
of the force. Under your rule, if the police continue
the chase without using the, without trying to ram him,
and then there is an accident and innocent people are
killed, or injured, I assume that under the tort laws of
most states, the police could be liable.
MR. JONES: Well in theory perhaps they
could be if the officer was a joint proximate cause of
the accident, but in most states --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, aren't they the
proximate cause if they continue the chase without
trying to terminate it?
MR. JONES: That's correct. If the officer
terminates the chase then he is never going to be liable
because number one he is acting prudently; he is going
based upon Department of Justice studies showing 70
percent --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. No. Well, I meant
terminate the chase by -- by -- by forcing him off the
road.
MR. JONES: Well, if he terminates the chase
using deadly force, that that creates a whole host of
other problems.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But isn't there -- but
isn't that one way to assure that the police are not
liable, both from a moral standpoint and a legal
standpoint, for causing the injury of other people?
MR. JONES: Now from a constitutional
standpoint the Fourth Amendment doesn't protect other
people. It protects those who have been seized. And
that's, that's the framework we are dealing with here
today.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you mean it's
irrelevant to our analysis to consider that he might
injure other people?
MR. JONES: The potential for danger to
others is certainly part of the justification for deadly
force, just as, if deadly force cannot be used
endangering other people, then that certainly goes into
the matrix, too.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Jones, could I --
MR. JONES: Yeah.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Could I ask whether the
portion of the opinion that you say establishes that he
was not endangering anybody is this portion? The court
is mindful that traffic laws are designed to -- safely
-- and Harris acted in an unsafe manner. However, the
record reflects" -- - is this the portion?
MR. JONES: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- "that he maintained
control over his vehicle." Well, that doesn't prove
he's not endangering anybody. "Used his turn signals"
-- wonderful.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: "And did not endanger any
particular motorist on the road." I think that's true.
In that scary chase he, he didn't come close to hitting
any particular car, but I don't think that's, that's a
finding that he was not endangering anybody. "Any
particular motorist," but he was endangering the public
at large.
MR. JONES: Well, this is my point is that
if, if the drive --if the hazard caused by driving in
and of itself is the only threat here, does that rise to
a level of imminency and immediacy that justifies the
use of deadly force? If it does, then any officer who
perceives that someone is driving unsafely and that they
may cause an accident to someone who may or may not be
down the road if not stopped, would be justified in
using deadly force, to literally take out anyone who is
speeding.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It depends on how fast --
if depends on how fast the car is going, whether it's a
two-lane road or four-lane divided highway. All those
factors come into, into account. And it doesn't seem to
me that we have to adopt a rule that will, that will
discourage police officers. There's, there's enough
disincentive to engage in this kind of activity in the
fact that the police officer may hurt himself. It's
pretty risky to conduct this kind of a maneuver, don't
you think? I wouldn't have done it if I was Scott.
MR. JONES: Well that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would have let the guy
go.
MR. JONES: Now what he, if he --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Driving 90 miles an hour
and comes up, approaches that car, that car swerved.
Scott could have been killed, couldn't he?
MR. JONES: Absolutely. Or because he's
also --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So I don't think we need a
whole lot of disincentive to stop police officers in
engaging in frolicsome conduct.
MR. JONES: Well, not only that, Justice
Scalia. The officer had no control over what was going
to happen once he used deadly force, like the officer
who fired into the cab of a flying vehicle in Barn v
Cox, once you disable the driver the car keeps going.
And in this case, when you -- when you hit the vehicle
and knock a vehicle that has been in control and make it
out of control, then it's now an unguided missile that
could just as easily cross the center line and hit an
innocent person.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me just ask this
question. In trying to assess the likelihood of harm to
innocent people who would be hurt by this by this guy
driving so fast, is that, do we measure it by assuming
that the chase will continue? Or do we measure it by
assuming that the chase would be discontinued?
MR. JONES: The officer --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Just as we did in Garner?
MR. JONES: The officer has both options. I
mean Garner simply commands that he not use deadly force
if it's a choice between letting him go and using deadly
force. Now in the Sacramento v Lewis case, it does say
that involves a different, a different type of claim and
a different standard. But in the Sacramento case it
does say that an officer in a pursuit has a duty to
always be weighing the risk of the continued pursuit
against the risk to the public. So there is an
independent duty there to act reasonably.
JUSTICE STEVENS: If it were -- clear that a
jury could find that there would be no unreasonable risk
to innocent motorists if they discontinued the chase --
assume that's a possible finding. If that were true,
would there be a duty to discontinue the chase?
MR. JONES: Not under the Fourth Amendment.
Now, the -- the only expert testimony in this record on
that subject says there is a 7 percent chance --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You're saying there is a
duty not to use deadly force.
MR. JONES: That's what Garner says, if you
don't use deadly force. And that's what our claim is.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And aren't you
concerned that that creates an incentive in every case
for anyone who, that sees the blue lights behind them to
know that all they have to do is keep fleeing and the
police are going to have to give up eventually?
MR. JONES: Well, let me respond by reading
a portion of Garner that deals with that point,
Mr. Chief Justice. These, these same important policy
reasons were raised in Garner, that we don't want to
encourage disobedience of issues. We want to discourage
people from fleeing. And this is what the Garner Court
said --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Garner --
Garner was the case involving shooting the guy in the
back, right?
MR. JONES: Yes. He might easily break into
someone else's house and perhaps end up killing them.
This was a vigorous dissent in Garner. But this is what
the majority said: "Without in any way disparaging the
importance of these goals we are not convinced that the
use of deadly force is a sufficiently productive means
of accomplishing them to justify the killing of
nonviolent suspects."
And if unsafe driving --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But your, your answer to
Justice Stevens as I understand it was the police not
have the duty to discontinue the chase? The obverse of
that is that the police may prolong the chase, i.e.,
prolong the injury to the public. I'm surprised at your
answer.
MR. JONES: Well, I think there is an
independent duty, it doesn't rise under the Fourth
Amendment, but there is an independent duty to do that.
But my concern is that under Garner, given a choice
between --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It is certainly the case
that if there is going to be a, a risk of deadly harm to
innocent third parties, there would be a duty to
discontinue the chase rather kill him. But you don't
seem to buy that.
MR. JONES: Well, experience shows most of
the time when you discontinue a chase, the person who is
running discontinues driving unsafely. That is the --
that is experience. This officer's own policy says that
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did this study show what
future fleeing speeders would do?
I mean, I will accept that for, for the sake
of argument that -- in fact, it's probably true. I
would have guessed that, if the police stopped chasing,
you don't go 90 miles an hour anymore. But did this
study show what the effect of a rule that says stop
chasing when he hits 85, what the effect of that rule
would be on, on fleeing speeders or fleeing felons, or
fleeing anybody?
MR. JONES: Well, the rule simply says you
don't kill him just because he is driving unsafely. And
if, it simply says that if the choice is between killing
him and letting him go, you have to let him go if the
Garner factors aren't present. And we find nothing in
the law and no reason to create a new exception in the
law that says that Garner doesn't apply if you're
fleeing by vehicle.
Thank you. We ask that the Court of Appeals
be affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Jones.
Mr. Savrin, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PHILIP W. SAVRIN,
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. SAVRIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Let me refocus for a moment that in order
for the officer to be denied qualified immunity in this
context a jury would have to be able to find two things.
One, that no -- that there was no probable cause, and
second, that that was clearly established. And I think
that the discussion this morning if nothing else shows
that it's not clearly established.
As far as the Fourth Amendment is concerned,
I think the measure needs to be exactly as this Court
stated in Graham versus Connor, which is looking at the
facts from the standpoint of the officer on the scene,
because after all, he has to make split-second
decisions. He does not have the benefit of taking
depositions of Mr. Harris --
JUSTICE BREYER: What am I supposed to do?
I mean, I'll look again at the tape. I certainly will
do that. But suppose I look at the tape and I end up
with Chico Marx's old question with respect to the Court
of Appeals: Who do you believe, me or your own eyes?
MR. SAVRIN: Your Honor, I think the answer
to that question was provided in this decision in
Ornelas versus United States, a decision by this Court
in 1996 that came up in the context of a criminal, a
direct criminal appeal involving the question of
probable cause. And this Court set forth very clearly
that the historical facts are given deference. The
question of, a legal question about whether those facts
reasonably give rise to probable cause is an independent
de novo review.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Whether he is endangering
anybody is a historical fact, no? So what do you do
about that finding?
MR. SAVRIN: I don't believe that is
historical fact.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is.
MR. SAVRIN: The historical facts here are
whether Mr. Harris was driving excessively, whether he
was driving across the line, whether he was driving at
high rates of speed, whether there was anybody in his
path, whether he had collided with anyone. I think the
question about whether or not those facts give rise to
probable cause to believe that Harris was a threat of
serious physical harm is a legal issue, and I think the
Court of Appeals recognized that in this case when they
applied a different analysis or came out with a
different result to those same undisputed facts.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What is the, the court
saying -- and this is on page 39 A of the petition
appendix -- when Harris was driving away from officers
and when there, when there were no other motorists or
pedestrians nearby, thus casting doubt on defendant's
assertion that at the time of the ramming, Harris posed
an immediate threat of harm to others.
This is a finding that there were no other
motorists or pedestrians nearby when the ramming
occurred.
MR. SAVRIN: And that is a fact that we
accept as true in the immediate vicinity. The tape
shows that there was a vehicle just 12 seconds before,
and I think that a reasonable officer at the time would
believe that that wasn't going to be the last vehicle on
that road.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would hope he would wait
until there were no pedestrians or vehicles coming
before he, before he did the ramming.
MR. SAVRIN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume he waited
precisely for that kind of a gap in the traffic?
MR. SAVRIN: Yes, Your Honor. Exactly. He
had limited options and I believe it was a no-win
scenario. And he took the best course that he
reasonably believed he could at the time. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you agree with
Mr. Jones' statement that none of Mr. Harris' conduct
rose to the level of a felony?
MR. SAVRIN: I would not, Your Honor. In
our brief we did list a number of felonies that
Mr. Harris, that we believe he committed. But I would
go back to Garner, and Garner says that an armed suspect
would have been a different case. And Garner also says
that some misdemeanors such as drunk driving are more
dangerous that some felonies such as white collar crime.
So I think the question should not be whether it's a
technical issue of crossing the line from misdemeanor to
felony, but the harm that is being caused by the
continued driving that's exactly what occurred in this
case.
And if I could respond to Justice Breyer's
question about what to do in terms of responding to
Mr. Marx's question, I think the Ornelas case says that
you would review it for clear error. And in this case
you would not owe deference of a finding of fact by the
lower court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Savrin. The case is submitted.
[Whereupon, at 11:47 a.m., the case in the
above-titled matter was submitted.]
agree 6:7,13,19 applications 31:17,19 behaving 39:8
21:2 32:16 applied 12:6 Atlanta 1:15,21 13:24
ahead 5:5 16:21 apply 13:15 19:2 18:9 5:22 10:10,11
49:10 alcohol 22:16 53:16 authorizing 21:22 31:21
56:8 42:24 43:13 appropriate automobiles 13:1 20:17
alternatives approximately available 16:14 believes 5:18
46:5 Amendment argue 14:20 average 4:17 benefit 54:13
3:14 14:23 arguing 33:3 avoid 5:19 27:20best 56:21
36:1 46:25 2:2,5,11 3:3,6 a.m 1:13 3:2 beyond 23:21
18:4 38:2 14:16 back 11:4 12:25 blowing 11:13
analysis 5:2 arrested 40:9 36:19 37:7 13:24 14:3
24:13 answer 7:22 articulation 7:8 backing 29:22 bottom 41:21
29:12 13:18 21:17 7:12 backyard 33:9 bound 41:4,5,7
36:18 28:18 30:12 asked 15:5,8 balance 5:14 41:19
34:21 52:4,9 26:6 33:24 break 51:20
34:21 47:16,23 48:5 assertion 56:2 Barn 49:18 21:20 23:18
53:9 55:6,14 assess 50:1 based 14:11 29:24 30:5,8
apart 22:10 19:21 20:1 41:18 46:12 32:25 33:12
Appeals 53:18 44:3 46:1 began 23:13 45:10,13 54:15
57:2 12:6,16,20,22 54:16 circumstances 15:15
34:16,18 25:1 32:3 21:6,7,19,24 50:12 51:4 14:25
35:5,13 33:16 34:21,24 23:13 24:3,8 claimed 36:18 concern 52:13
37:4 35:1,3,11,18 28:3 32:8 33:9 claims 20:22 concerned 45:22
37:8 38:3 43:1 46:7,10,15,17 50:18 57:16 conclude 10:7,8
51:18 52:15 52:18,21 35:12,14,21 40:14
38:23 57:15,16,20,21 20:1 21:8 54:25 25:16
23:16 casting 56:1 chasing 21:12 closed 27:14 42:11 49:1,14
46:4,7 48:14 27:3 31:13 27:15,20 36:7 considered 6:6
13:3,22 55:17 36:21,22 37:5 come 23:16 33:23 35:9
22:20 caused 5:10 37:6,14,19 40:13 48:3,21 36:19
26:25 13:13 48:9 38:7 42:12 comes 33:6 49:8 Considering
34:11 57:10 51:5,12,17 coming 28:8 11:21
36:10 causes 15:19 53:20,25 56:23 40:15 44:6,9 constitutional
38:5 causing 6:17 57:19 45:2 56:14 25:2,18 41:10
44:21 46:23 choice 29:19 command 18:8 46:24
49:8,8 center 3:21,24 38:12 50:10 commands 25:3 construing
4:4,5,9,24 5:7 52:13 53:12 50:9 40:19
21:25 27:17 44:22 circuit 10:6,12 37:25 13:12,13 17:14
24:7 49:23 11:5,6,24 commit 39:22 contend 9:5,10
28:8 certain 30:16 12:16,19,23 committed 29:4 12:25
40:15 certainly 22:14 13:14 34:20 31:25 38:12 context 4:17
45:1,2 29:1 31:9,11 circuits 10:18 39:12 40:2 14:22 19:17
7:24 40:1 43:24 circumstance common 34:8 continue 37:3
11:25 47:8,10 52:15 17:9 21:10 commonly 45:23 46:7
CRAIG 1:21 2:9 10:16,19,22 definition 11:3,9 29:19
37:10 crashed 4:24 11:18 12:3,7 degrees 11:11 direction 28:8
57:11 create 11:7 14:7 14:12,25 15:24 11:14 40:16 44:7
created 11:7 20:14,23 22:21 18:10 disable 49:19
34:1 33:4,18,20,25 department discontinue
51:6 38:13,14 39:6 38:1 46:12 52:21
27:4 14:5 28:15,16 42:9,22 43:3,8 10:11 29:12 17:19,20 19:20
49:16,21 28:21,25 29:2 43:10,11,18 48:18,19 50:5,20
29:9,14 32:12 44:1 46:18 deposition 16:2 discontinues
38:18 crimes 31:24 deal 24:12 4:11 5:11,12 48:23 51:14
32:1 dealing 29:11 17:5,16 20:16 discussion 42:2
36:2 54:24 deals 51:11 25:13 disincentive
10:19 crossed 19:6 7:20 10:24 described 12:20 disobedience
24:7 21:25,25 27:5 13:3,13,24 15:5 51:14
39:2 crossing 8:3 14:3 20:18 designed 47:17 disobey 25:3
32:9 57:9 26:10,12 28:22 determination disobeys 18:8
curiae 1:19 2:8 32:15 determine 25:9 51:23
11:2 12:2 18:4 decide 41:9 41:20 dispose 22:20
18:7 decided 37:10 determined 15:9 dispute 4:11,14
24:11,15 D decision 11:24 23:15 disputes 24:19
26:4 D 3:1 19:18 23:14 determines disregard 18:10
28:10 damage 16:25 25:9,22 34:16 18:23 24:11 dissent 35:10,18
35:14 danger 6:17 34:16 35:5,5 determining 51:22
40:19 20:11 22:9 35:11,24 36:20 33:23 distinction 36:8
25:2,17,19 36:24 42:8 dictate 34:24 39:4
43:11 40:16 42:25 54:21,22 difference 32:3 distracted 4:9
47:16 43:1 47:7 decisions 11:16 34:9 district 9:24
53:18 dangerous 3:12 54:13 different 9:14 10:2 45:19
57:7 defendant 42:4 11:7,14 13:16 divided 48:20
57:18 data 32:11 43:23 14:15 18:19 doing 5:18 28:15
41:20 de 55:4 56:1 50:12,12,13 double 3:18 8:3
35:11 deadly 9:11,14 57:17 diminished 37:2 doubt 26:11
18:17 encourage 25:18 exact 34:21 32:21 33:22 50:21 55:7
37:4 51:14 exactly 4:5 38:13 43:12,16 56:4 57:17
endanger 38:22 18:15 20:3 48:21 53:14 findings 41:19
endangering 6:9 42:11 54:9 25:12 27:2,3 36:22
6:8 14:12 48:5,6 55:5 exceptionally 55:1,2,11,16 first 15:14 21:18
22:10 endangerment 3:15 4:1,16 55:21 26:6 36:16
6:17 excess 26:17 factual 4:11 43:16 45:3
28:13 ended 12:1 32:6 41:1,3,13 flee 8:18 22:16
38:5 engage 23:4 excessive 20:23 factually 44:3 25:19
40:22,23 48:24 37:1 fail 28:25 fleeing 5:15
41:23 engaged 21:24 excessively fair 7:18 33:19,19,25
engaging 49:14 55:12 Faninger 15:23 34:4 35:8
44:24 ensue 10:24 excuse 12:12 Faninger's 16:1 36:10,11 37:3
49:7 entire 32:5 27:21 36:21 far 4:11 21:15 37:4 42:24
52:3,22 33:20 37:4 54:8 51:8,15 53:1,8
55:12,13 entitled 32:24 exit 3:24 fashion 22:16 53:8,9,17
57:6 episode 8:15 exited 39:11 fast 27:4,16 flight 18:13
equal 23:19 expanded 33:17 40:22 42:20 19:17 39:7
18:15 29:22 expert 50:24 feet 8:13 16:25 9:21 10:5,7,9
52:6,11 31:16 35:8 experts 37:24 fellow 6:8,17 10:16,19,22
ESQ 1:15,17,21 explain 33:17 felonies 39:12 11:3,5,12,16
54:5,7 F 57:10 23:14 24:4,9
et 32:10 29:14 36:10 35:17 29:3,8,20 33:4
evasive 27:20 41:22 42:4 find 10:4,9,15 34:3,4,25 35:9
40:25 gap 56:18 53:13 57:4 37:12 hitting 26:24,25
42:9,22 Garner 10:22,25 goals 51:24 hard 22:8 48:3
11:2,6,7 13:14 goes 22:13 44:7 harm 5:14,15 hoc 34:2
44:1 20:21 23:1,6,7 44:10,25 45:1 6:1,3 13:3,24 holding 24:17
46:18 29:3,7 33:6,8 45:3 47:10 14:3 19:20 35:2 36:16,17
48:12 33:15,18 34:1 going 7:23 8:2,4 28:22 29:10,15 Honor 4:7,10
49:17 34:1,4,15,16 8:8,10 11:4,9 32:12,15 34:10 5:1,8,16,21
51:2,4 34:24 35:4 17:2,16 18:19 50:1 52:16 6:15,19 7:17
36:12,20 37:4 19:5,12,22 55:18 56:3 7:22 8:6,11,21
51:22 52:13 44:21 45:4 5:11,12 8:16 16:5,10 17:22
13:14 Garre 1:17 2:6 52:16 56:11 15:17 16:17 39:24 45:18
40:19 18:2,3,6,21 good 20:6 28:20 17:7,12,14,21 54:20 56:16,19
45:12 19:3,14,23 28:24 33:11 26:10,12,15 57:1
20:24 22:14,22 23:2 Graham 14:23 37:8 47:18 hope 40:17
36:1 23:12 24:2,17 20:21,22 33:5 54:14 55:12,17 56:13
50:23 25:8,24 33:6,7,14,16 55:24 56:2,24 hospital 40:9
54:8 General 1:17 33:17,24 34:2 57:3 host 46:18
40:17 43:21 1:17 2:6 18:3 9:17 24:6,6 26:21
give 20:6 24:15 guessed 53:4 7:18,25 8:2 37:11 39:15
55:3,16 gun 13:17 21:6 19:5 23:4 house 29:23
52:13 55:1 guy 22:8 38:10 highway 21:7 8:9,10 48:25
25:22 16:6 43:17 51:18 34:11 48:20
18:17 H 9:12 19:2 ignorant 21:14
38:13,15,23 happened 27:19 hit 7:19 40:3,5 48:11
52:8 30:10,13,16,21 16:11,15,19 48:15
45:25 49:24 32:14,19 33:11 18:6,14 19:1,3 48:11
intended 40:3,5 35:2,19 36:2,6 20:3,5,9,10,12 52:1
intentionally 38:18,25 39:4 22:12,19,23,23 keep 12:10 51:8
interests 21:11 40:5,17 41:3,5 24:12,17,25 Kennedy 5:13
41:6,6,21 42:16 43:5,15 26:3,11,19,24 7:9 10:21
intersection 45:17 46:3,9 29:7,24 30:5,8 24:25 27:7
21:10 22:17 23:7 48:8 49:3,6,10 32:2,16,25 40:3 45:19,21
involving 4:21 51:20 52:10,20 36:4,9,13,21 Kennedy's
52:11,12 51:18 54:24 judgment 11:22 37:6,14,19 key 18:21 23:2,3
Inyo 34:19 36:2 25:10 29:13 38:1,7,16,19 40:11
47:5 jurors 40:21 39:19,22 40:1 kill 21:5 38:22
21:14 41:21,22 42:3 29:13,16,17 44:17,23 45:10 51:21 52:1
22:1,2 42:5,16,17 30:9,19 31:8 45:13,19,21 53:12
55:18 57:9 40:18 50:19 46:6,12,14,20 kind 9:12 25:17
i.e 5:18 52:7 Justice 1:18 3:3 48:1,18 49:4,7 56:18
joined 32:8 8:14,23 9:10 53:20,25 54:15 30:19 31:6,10
Jones 1:21 2:9 10:8,14,21 56:13,17,23 43:23
17:6 27:11,23 28:6 13:6,18,21 41:24 42:22 21:12,18,23
26:10,10 28:10,16 29:1 14:4,15 15:4 43:9 47:8 29:24 30:4,6
46:23 29:17 30:2,7 15:25 16:3,8 justified 14:13 30:21,23 31:11
37:15,16 life-endangeri... low 17:6 middle 38:11 mow 37:10
38:24 15:12 lower 36:19 mile 32:5 murder 31:7
51:8 light 34:1 40:20 57:18 miles 4:17 6:8 37:20 42:15
lights 3:21 19:9 lucky 14:4 12:14 13:4,23 N
28:19,24 18:17 19:5,12 N 2:1,1 3:1
45:1 liked 36:20,24 47:21 23:20 24:6,6 nature 18:15
likelihood 7:15 majority 31:25 26:21 32:9 nearby 56:1,5
45:20 limb 15:6 15:21 49:1 mindful 47:17 needed 43:25
limit 18:18 manner 14:11 minor 32:1 needs 54:9
35:14 26:17 Mark 16:1 misdemeanant 46:10
39:21 limited 14:10 Marx's 54:18 13:11 new 53:15
42:5 15:3 16:16 57:15 misdemeanor night 3:18 19:8
53:15,16 56:20 mass 37:20 57:9 20:19 24:5
46:1 27:5 34:5 8:13 missile 49:22 nine-mile 3:15
41:22 49:23 matrix 47:11 missing 13:8 nondeadly
55:2,18 little 27:1 14:19 20:21 11:8 no-win 56:20
38:12 54:16,17 43:16 44:4,24 Monday 1:9 numerous 19:7
53:13 looked 4:20 47:4 50:9 53:2 moot 43:20 24:7
42:25 31:3 44:4 means 51:25 morning 54:6
56:25 34:22 40:14 measure 15:7 motor 19:7 O 2:1 3:1
25:1 lose 15:19 menacing 39:8 motorist 48:2,6 obligation 16:12
loss 12:5 42:19 motorists 18:24 observed 42:8
lot 8:15 16:25 mere 36:10 50:20 55:25 obverse 52:6
40:2 49:13 method 15:9 mouth 7:3 56:6 57:11
owe 57:17 37:2 38:4 20:18 22:2 31:20
11:16 9:4 21:8,13 25:20 31:20 54:4,25 55:3
15:5 P 31:6 34:9,12 34:25 35:7 55:17
P 3:1 36:10 40:22,23 38:4 40:4,6 probably 7:7
18:22 page 2:2 55:23 42:14,17 49:24 43:3,23 45:23 53:3
27:16 parking 8:15 52:21 46:2,21 48:23 problems 46:19
29:18,21 22:3 27:13 personally 3:11 48:25 49:13 procedure 16:4
32:24 39:11 perspective 8:12 51:9 52:5,7 produced 36:7
35:16 part 4:22 5:2,6 petition 55:23 53:4 productive
39:14 47:8 Petitioner 1:4 policeman 5:14 51:25
42:8 particular 9:22 1:16,20 2:4,13 34:9,11 prolong 52:7,8
48:12 17:4 19:24 3:7 14:10 15:2 policeman's propose 5:14
49:16,17 48:2,4,6 15:21 18:5 13:16,17 proposing 6:10
54:2 parties 17:7 26:6 53:24 policy 51:12 prosecuted
56:10 52:17 Philadelphia 52:23 40:10
12:3 pass 3:19 27:5 PHILIP 1:15 47:19 51:11 46:25
20:23 27:19 2:3,12 3:6 pose 23:5 protects 47:1
35:6 passed 17:12,14 53:23 posed 20:17 prove 47:22
49:13 19:6 27:5,6 phrase 16:8 23:4,15 24:4 provided 54:21
passenger 13:14 physical 36:7 56:2 provides 34:5,23
52:23 26:14 PIT 15:6,15,21 position 23:8 46:7
18:11 55:15 Plaintiff 36:17 possible 6:3 public 18:13
Penal 10:12 11:8 26:4 potential 11:15 52:8
30:25 31:23 33:10 11:9,10 14:9 present 38:14 pursued 37:20
38:17 39:9,9 16:17 23:3,13 53:14 42:15
40:15 47:10 50:2 37:7,15 39:11 presume 32:24 pursuit 3:12,15
51:15 39:22 40:11 pretend 44:12 12:18 29:18,20
50:8 38:3 46:13 pointed 35:10 prevail 14:16 50:14,15
50:25 police 3:10,14 prevent 20:14 pursuits 37:13
18:3 26:1 permission 15:5 8:24 16:11 prior 41:18 42:2 8:11 20:10
9:22 realized 26:9 regard 29:2 10:24 13:3,23 rulings 41:18
14:19,21 really 4:8 33:22 14:5,7 18:24 run 28:11
20:12 reason 21:12,14 regardless 24:2 20:17 24:4 running 7:15
21:18 23:7,9 24:3 24:10 26:16,18 27:25 9:16 34:10
28:14,17 53:15 relevance 30:24 28:15,21,25 37:3 38:5
29:16 reasonable 9:3 relevant 7:15 29:2,9,15,18 52:22
12:21 13:7,22 25:12 32:4,11 29:19,21 32:12
14:6,18 32:19,20 32:15,21 50:15 S
33:3,11
43:20 19:21 20:1 relied 35:18 50:16,19 52:16 S 2:1 3:1
54:18,21 21:20 22:6 remaining 53:22 risking 12:14 Sacramento
55:2,2 24:10,10,23 repeal 41:15 risky 15:8 49:1 19:15 20:10
57:8,14 25:6 31:15 required 42:23 road 8:3 12:14 24:25 50:11,13
33:24 40:21 resolve 10:3 17:4 23:25 safe 15:16 38:5
26:6 reasonableness 33:24 34:3 27:14,25 28:9 safety 18:13
33:8 respects 15:14 40:14 42:20 sake 53:2
51:10 57:13 46:16 48:2,15 Savrin 1:15 2:3
45:24 reckless 18:9,16 response 15:20 8:23 17:25 12:17,22 13:5
56:2 recklessly 9:4 result 7:21 25:23 26:11,19 14:22 15:4,13
recognized 33:16 34:25 26:24 34:20 16:1,5,10,15
record 6:25 resume 38:5 37:6,14,19 17:20 18:1
7:5 44:8 45:2 20:6 25:2,18 34:6 35:13,14
33:5,5 reflexes 28:20 rise 24:16 48:10 45:22,23 48:22 says 5:17 6:10
31:10 seconds 17:13 signals 47:23 speeder 24:14 stop 6:12,16
36:3 56:9 significant speeders 53:1,8 7:24 9:11,20
45:14 see 30:23 42:1,2 32:22 speeding 8:20 11:13 18:9,19
51:3 44:14,15,18 similar 31:4 8:24 9:2 22:9 23:10 33:18
53:6,10 45:15 simple 33:7 23:10 30:1,20 34:12 43:3,23
57:4 seen 44:12 simply 14:24 30:24 31:7,17 49:13 53:6
sees 51:7 26:15 33:8 31:23 32:18 stopped 8:16 9:9
12:9,12 35:13 36:14,18 50:9 53:10,12 4:16 19:5 22:5 stopping 7:4,5
20:9 sense 34:8 sirens 43:22 spin 15:16 stops 38:4
28:2,5,7 serious 7:20 situation 13:15 split-second strangler 27:8
36:9,13 10:24 13:2,3 16:12 20:14 54:12 studies 46:12
38:16,19 13:24 14:3,18 32:5,18 40:16 spun 15:17 study 37:25,25
41:1,4 20:17 22:25 43:14 squad 22:2 38:1 52:25
47:12,14 24:4 26:10,12 situations 31:21 St 35:3 53:6
48:1,18 28:22 29:10,15 six 35:4 stage 25:10 subject 50:25
31:16,24 32:15 slowed 8:18 9:8 29:13 subjected 33:25
55:5,10 55:18 slowing 9:3 stake 24:1 31:17 submit 16:24
set 54:25 smoking 27:9 standard 20:25 25:12
shoot 38:25 39:2 8:10 23:25 46:22,23,25 13:23 14:5,7
34:9 38:16,21 somebody's started 8:25 29:9,14
4:25 5:1 51:18 somewhat 31:4 stated 54:10 sufficiently
12:13 shopping 3:21 sorry 12:10 statement 56:24 36:17 51:25
17:5,16 3:24 4:4,5,9,23 13:20 states 1:1,12,19 summary 11:22
21:12,18 5:6 22:3 27:12 sound 30:14 2:7 18:4 46:2,5 25:10 29:12
23:9 27:14,17 44:22 SOUTER 12:24 54:22 supervisor
short 17:1 13:6,18,21 Statistic 22:15 15:22 16:2
show 3:13,17 14:4 16:8 Stevens 4:3,8 supporting 1:19
26:7 21:16 22:15 28:14,17 29:7 7:14,18 9:10 2:8 18:5
29:24 29:25 31:6 32:2,16 9:16,23 10:1,4 suppose 8:1 22:7
30:4 52:25 53:6 sparing 15:7 10:8,14 16:11 23:19,20 54:17
showing 46:12 speak 24:22 16:15,19 17:3 supposed 5:6
31:10 shown 29:3 40:6 sped 9:4 17:9,18 19:10 18:16 21:9
shows 17:12 speed 4:17 6:24 19:19,24 20:12 33:13,13 44:3
49:2,9 44:5 52:20 7:14,16,19,25 20:16 22:19,23 44:11,12 45:16
26:25 side 31:2 18:18 20:2 49:25 50:7,18 Supreme 1:1,12
16:25 sign 27:9 25:21 26:17 sticks 11:13 sure 4:19 22:22
36:17 signal 27:6,8 28:8 31:23 stolen 22:17 28:20
28:19,24 32:6 55:14 37:16 38:6 Surely 43:22
10:11,12,18,21 threatens 34:10 turned 27:11,12 48:12 50:9
33:19,25 34:2 43:4,5 43:12 two 15:14 16:16 uses 9:19
57:4 testified 30:5,7 ticket 22:9 21:12 23:20
52:2 testimony 16:5 17:13,24 26:8 54:3 v 1:5 41:7,15,16
50:24 39:11 52:21 28:9 48:20 vehicle 3:22,25
44:5 tests 11:8 times 7:1 13:13 9:9,20 11:12
57:19 tort 46:1 uncertain 33:1 18:13,23 23:5
39:4 thing 6:23 15:2 26:17,20,22 30:20 32:22 47:22 49:18,20
23:21 31:12 39:18 40:8 42:7 49:21 53:17
things 5:4 8:15 44:25 47:17 30:16 52:5 vehicles 6:25
6:21 7:11 9:13 travel 3:20 5:11 unguided 49:22 versa 4:13
38:23 9:18,20 12:6,7 17:8 United 1:1,12,19 versus 3:4 5:15
42:6,7 12:8 15:1 traveling 3:19 2:7 18:4 54:22 19:15 20:10
31:3,4 22:18 30:8 treat 34:13 25:7,11 28:1 34:18 35:3
41:13 37:7 45:17 tremendous 50:19 36:2 54:10,22
54:16 48:2,4 49:2,12 27:25 unsafe 26:16 vice 4:13
56:8 52:10 54:5,9 trial 9:24 40:19 27:1 39:7 vicinity 56:8
29:20 46:8 12:15,19 17:7 56:8 use 9:11 13:16 34:23 43:2
52:17 try 6:12 23:25 13:17 15:5,8 vigorous 51:22
44:17 trying 8:18 12:3 18:11 20:13 violated 21:13
24:8 29:5 31:16,21 35:17 28:24 33:4,18 violation 23:11
55:17 56:3 43:23 45:24 34:25 40:25 35:9 41:10,23
wonder 45:14 26 1:9 2:10
42:18 word 44:20 3 2:4
53:23 wouldn't 4:4 5
51:13,14 7
72 19:12,22 20:7
Y
47:13 83 24:13
27:12
35:15 yellow 8:3 22:1 9
43:21 32:9
4:17 6:8,24
young 23:23
12:14
Z
27:18,22 37:11 39:15
1:5 3:4
35:6 49:7 53:5
40:14 1
44:10 10:48 1:13 3:2
51:23 100 7:1 19:5
130 8:13 16:25
1985 35:3
