IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
LILLY M. LEDBETTER, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 05-1074
THE GOODYEAR TIRE & :
RUBBER COMPANY, INC. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 27, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for
oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United
States at 11:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Petitioner.
GLEN D. NAGER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington,
D.C.; as amicus curiae on behalf of the
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GLEN D. NAGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ.
As amicus curiae supporting the
Respondent 46
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioner 56
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear
argument next in Ledbetter versus Goodyear Tire &
Rubber Company.
Mr. Russell.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN K. RUSSELL,
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. RUSSELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court.
A jury found that at the time petitioner
filed for charge of discrimination with the EEOC,
respondent was paying her less for each week's work
than it paid similarly situated male employees and
that it did so because of her sex. The question for
the Court is whether that present act of disparate
treatment because of sex constituted a present
violation of Title VII. This Court has already
answered that question.
Consistent with the law's traditional
treatment of pay as arising from recurring
transactions and giving rise to recurring causes of
action, and consistent with the paycheck accrual rule
everyone agrees Congress adopted for the Equal Pay
Act, this Court in Bazemore versus Friday held under
Title VII, each week's paycheck that offers less to
an employee because of her race or sex --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But are you saying that
the rule for paycheck decisions is different than the
rule for other sorts of decisions?
MR. RUSSELL: It -- it is. For example,
the respondents give the example of promotion
decisions but we think that there are analytical and
well as practical and historical distinctions that
Congress, that led Congress to treat pay differently.
As a practical matter, while it's always the case or
almost always the case that somebody knows they have
been subject to disparate treatment in a promotion
case -- they know that they didn't get the promotion
and somebody else did -- -it is frequently possible
for an employee to be subject to disparate pay
without ever knowing that she has been treated
differently than anybody else. And certainly --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That seems to me to work
the other way around, just like the case we've just
heard argued in the last hour. It's a question of
specificity here. If the, if the employee, he
alleges that promotions were based on experience and
the employee didn't have the experience because of
past discrimination, why is that different than the
paycheck rule? I take it indicates that you would
not allow the, a cause of action unless the
discrimination was within the statute of limitations
period?
MR. RUSSELL: Yes. Yes. A promotion --
discrimination in promotion is different analytically
than with discrimination with respect to pay
decisions themselves. Because in a promotion
decision the employee is deprived of the opportunity
to take on added responsibilities and therefore earn
more pay, but in, but the pay itself is not
discriminatory in the sense of treating people doing
the same work differently.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't really see a vast
difference between a promotion and being elevated to
a higher pay grade. I mean, there may be no
different responsibilities but it's a single act of
discrimination: "No, you're not going to move up to
the next pay level." I don't see why that's
different from "no, you're not going to move up to
the next job."
MR. RUSSELL: Because, I think the
difference is that when somebody is denied a
promotion for discriminatory reasons the paychecks
themselves are not discriminatory. They treat
similarly situated workers differently.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Russell, I thought
that your argument was that yes, you know that you
haven't got the promotion, you know you haven't got
the transfer, but the spread in the pay is an
incremental thing. You may think the first year you
didn't get a raise, "well, so be it." But you have,
you have no reason to think that there is going to be
this inequality. I mean she started out getting the
same pay, right?
MR. RUSSELL: Yes, and that practical
distinction I think does support Congress's decision
under the Equal Pay Act as well as under Title VII to
choose a paycheck accrual rule because it's
frequently that even if an employee knows she has
been subject to disparate pay, it's frequently very
difficult for her to have a good faith belief that
that pay is intentionally discriminatory without more
information.
So for example, if you look at that chart
on page 174 of the joint appendix, which summarizes
the pay decisions for one of the years at issue here,
if petitioner knew only the pay raise that she got
that year, she would know that she got a 5.28 percent
raise which is not - which is not suspicious. If she
knew what Mr. Conte had gotten, she would know that
in fact that pay raise decision decreased the
disparity between her pay and Mr. Conte's pay. If
she knew what also happened with respect to Mr. Bice
she would see he got a higher absolute raise than he
did, but she got a bigger one than Todd. It's only
if petitioner had all of the information in this
chart, that she would know that that pay raise
decision increased the overall disparity between her
wages and the average wages of men doing the same
job. And even then the amount of that disparity,
standing alone wouldn't provide a sufficient reason
to go claim intentional discrimination to the EEOC.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How does, how does time
solve that difficulty?
MR. RUSSELL: It's only after -- one would
expect in a merit system that there would be some
level of variation in the area and that would work
out over time. It's only when it doesn't, when the
disparity persists, when the different treatment
accrues again and again and the overall disparity in
the wages increases, that the employee has some
reasonable basis to think that it's not natural
variation in the pay decisions but actually
intentional discrimination.
In the paycheck accrual rule that's been
applied by the lower courts for more than 20 years
without incident, adequately balances the interest of
employees and being able to come forward once they
find out that there is a reason to suspect
discrimination, with an employer's reasonable
interest in avoiding having to defend stale claims.
I think it's important to note that the
Equal Pay Act, which everybody agrees has a paycheck
accrual rule, imposes all of the same burdens on
employers that respondents allege would have led
Congress to never impose a paycheck accrual under
Title VII.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What happened to the
Equal Pay Act claim? You started out with a Title
VII claim and an equal pay claim and somewhere along
the way the equal pay claim dropped out.
MR. RUSSELL: It did. The magistrate
judge initially recommended dismissing both the Title
VII and equal pay claims on the grounds that there
was a nondiscriminatory reason for the disparity.
The District Courts held that there were fact
disputes that precluded that conclusion, but for some
reason only reinstated the Title VII claim.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why didn't you ask for
the equal pay claim? As I understand the magistrate
judge he said, yes, you had made it across the first
hurdle, you had a prima facie case. You showed that
you're a woman, and you're getting this and all the
men are getting much higher. But the employer has
come forward with any other factor other than sex and
the other factor is that, your inadequate
performance.
MR. RUSSELL: We should have objected to
the failure to reinstate the Equal Pay Act claim. We
didn't; we didn't think it was that important and the
time because we still had the Title VII claim.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because in the Title
VII case assuming you're right, that you get across
the same threshold, you're faced with the same
defense. Right?
MR. RUSSELL: Yes. It's essentially the
same case kind of case in each instance. Although
the jury has to find intentional discrimination in
the Title VII case; under the Equal Pay Act the jury
has to determine whether the employer has shown that
the present disparity is the result of some factor
other than sex. And so in both cases, the jury
always has to consider the basis of prior decisions
that are the cause of the present disparity.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you have to show that
at the time when a particular paycheck in question is
issued, there was an intent to discriminate?
MR. RUSSELL: No. The execution of a
prior discriminatory decision constitutes a present
violation of Title VII. It's frequently --
JUSTICE ALITO: What if the situation is
that when the particular paycheck is cut, the
company, the employer, whoever it is, has no intent
whatsoever to discriminate? They think that they are
issuing this pay on a totally nondiscriminatory
basis?
MR. RUSSELL: It still constitutes a
violation because they are executing a present
disparity that is because of sex within the meaning
of the statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if 15 years
earlier a discriminatory decision was made to give a
pay raise of 4 percent rather than 5 percent, and
that over the 15 years became the basis with other
raises, you think you can challenge the
discrimination 15 years later and say well, this was
discriminatory because 15 years ago I didn't get a
raise and that, carried forward, had a ripple effect
into the current 180-day period.
MR. RUSSELL: Yes. That kind of claim
would be timely under Section 706. The employer
would have an awfully good laches defense.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would that be true if
there were a change in ownership of the company, so
the discrimination originally occurred under owner A,
then the company is purchased by owner B, completely
unrelated, and the, the disparity is used for
bonuses, etcetera?
MR. RUSSELL: That would depend on the
general rules for attributing a liability from a
successful --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, under the, under
the answer that you gave to the Chief Justice and the
rule you propose, what of the case of differing
ownership?
MR. RUSSELL: I would think that they are
still responsible in the same way that they are
responsible for other actions that the prior company
took.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that, but that would
not be the result if the reason for the disparity
between 4 percent and 5 percent was not a, a denial
of a pay increase to a higher pay level, but rather
denial of a promotion to another job.
MR. RICHARDS: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If that were the case,
then it washes out and you have to challenge it right
away.
MR. RUSSELL: That is correct. And we
think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does that make any sense?
MR. RUSSELL: Well, I think that it does
for the reason that I said before, that that kind of
consequence is a secondary effect of the prior
unlawful employment practice, but under Evans, which
that kind of problem goes to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you could call it a
secondary effect but the only reason you want to get
promoted to another job is to get more money. I
think it's a primary effect.
MR. RUSSELL: Well even if the Court
didn't think that this is a completely satisfactory
analytical line to draw, as I said before there are
good practical reasons for drawing it, and every
reason to think that Congress did draw it, because
Congress enacted this statute against the background
legal principle that pay, that the pay aspects of the
employment relationship arise out of recurring
transactions and give rise to recurring causes of
action. And that's the rule that everybody
acknowledges Congress adopted under the Equal Pay
Act. And to hold that there is a different rule
under Title VII would for example lead to the
anomalous proposition that Congress intended to
permit women, a white woman in 1967 to challenge the
present disparity in her pay, but not a black man
under Title VII because the discrimination there was
racial. We don't think that Congress intended the
two acts to perform in such dramatically different
ways. In fact --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Congress
could have specifically provided for the Equal Pay
Act rule under Title VII, but it didn't do that.
MR. RUSSELL: No, it didn't have the same
elements, but there's no reason to think that the
difference in the elements --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It didn't have the same
defenses because the Bennett amendment makes the
defenses under the Equal Pay Act applicable under
Title VII, right?
MR. RUSSELL: That's right. And as a
result the claims and the process of adjudicating
both kinds of claims are not significantly different.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose you go back to
the 15 year old action which led to disparity that
continues up to today, and suppose at the beginning
or in July of 2006 the woman discovers it and brings
her claim and suppose she wins. Now, is it the case
-- and here I'm uncertain. I thought there was some
rule in respect to getting damages that you could
only go back 2 years?
MR. RUSSELL: There is a provision of
Title VII that limits back pay to at most 2 years.
JUSTICE BREYER: And in that case would it
mean that in this case where it happened 15 years ago
and she won, but she didn't bring her act until
August of 2006, that she could only then collect the
extra money for the preceding 2 years?
MR. RUSSELL: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: So it isn't going to open
up tremendous liability for 15 or 20 years ago.
MR. RUSSELL: That's absolutely right, and
in fact there's no reason to think that such claims
are particularly common. This has been the rule in
effect for 20 years in the lower courts and
respondent is unable to show any actual evidence that
these kinds of claims are common. But much more
common are instances in which an employee has no
reasonable basis for filing a charge of
discrimination within 180 days of the disparity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose all
they'd have to do is allege that sometime over the
past -- I mean, it doesn't have to be 15 years. It
could be 40 years, right -- that there was a
discriminatory act, in one of the semi-annual pay
reviews I was denied this, a raise that I should have
gotten. It may have been 20 years ago. It may have
been 40 years ago.
MR. RUSSELL: They can certainly make that
allegation, but the employer is left open to avail
itself of the equitable defenses and they'll have a
very easy time of showing that there's been undue
delay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where does it say --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is that if
they just discovered it? I just learned about what
happened 30 years ago at this company and it's -- I
filed right away. There's no laches.
MR. RUSSELL: In that case --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But then they have
to go back and litigate what happened 30 years ago.
MR. RUSSELL: I do acknowledge that a
traditional laches defense would be more difficult
than those --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought your answer
before was that this is not -- if she's going to
bring a case I got a 2 percent raise, he got a 3
percent raise, her chances are very slim, but if this
builds up year by year to the point where see is
saying, I'm being denied equal pay, it's a
requirement of the anti-discrimination law that I get
equal pay, so today I'm not getting equal pay, I
thought -- I mean, the chance that she could win when
she gets a salary review and she gets a little less
than the other person are nil.
MR. RUSSELL: Yes, and it's only after
that same kind of decision has been repeated over a
number of years that you actually have a case that
you can bring to the EEOC. But under respondent's
view by that time it's too late.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's not your
theory. I mean, if it happened once 20 years ago you
have a case that you can bring, isn't it?
MR. RUSSELL: That's true, but the
practical --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You've got a memo
that says we're going to pay, 20 years ago, we're
going to pay males this much and we're going to pay
females this much, and she says that obviously
affected my pay over the ensuing 15, 20 years.
MR. RUSSELL: That's true, but the
paycheck accrual rule also serves the function of the
much more common case in which somebody doesn't
derive notice of the potential discrimination until
the discrimination has been repeated over time.
JUSTICE ALITO: But isn't your position
that an employer violates Title VII unless the
employer periodically reviews the entire pay record
of every employee to make sure that there has never
been an uncomplained of act of discrimination at any
point in the past that would have a continuing
present effect on the amount of money that the
employee is paid?
MR. RUSSELL: No. They certainly have an
incentive to do that under both the Equal Pay Act,
which everybody acknowledges puts the employer
subject to liability for any present disparity based
on any prior decision that can't be justified as
based on some factor other than sex, and that
incentive has been around for a very long time and
respondents aren't able to show that that's been an
unmanageable burden. But employers as a matter of
basic agency law know from the very beginning whether
or not they've been paying the plaintiff less because
of her sex.
JUSTICE SOUTER: How do they know that?
10 years ago the employee got a particular, got a
particular job evaluation and that dictated the
amount of pay that that employee was going to get for
that period and all, all subsequent pay built on that
base, and then it turns out many years later that
there was discrimination in the way the employee was
evaluated way back when, even though there was no
complaint about it; then under your theory that would
be a present Title VII violation, to cut a paycheck
that built, that was based on pay that was built on
this act of discrimination that occurred long ago?
MR. RUSSELL: Because this Court made
clear as recently Faragher that when an employer
delegates pay-setting authority to a supervisor the
discrimination undertaken by that supervisor is
imputed to the employer as a matter of agency law
principles.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Oh, yeah, but that
assumed a present discrimination, and it seems to me
the problem that we've got is the problem of
connecting a past discrimination with what may in
fact be an apparently neutral act 15 or 20 years
later.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, I don't think that the
proof that the act is discriminatory is any more
difficult or any more difficult in concept when it
happened several years ago than when it happened 180
days ago. It's still the employer -- the employee
still has to show that the present disparity is
because of sex. And the fact that it may be more
difficult as a practical matter is something that the
court can take into account under a laches defense.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does he have to know
that the present decision to continue the pay
structure is discriminatory?
MR. RUSSELL: No. It's enough that the
employer knows as a matter of basic agency law that
the petitioner is being paid less because of her sex,
because of prior discriminatory decisions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The -- as I remember
the facts of this case, wasn't it in 1995 that she
got a substantial raise and the reason, according to
her supervisor, was that he noticed that her pay was
below the minimum of the appropriate range for her
job?
MR. RUSSELL: That's true. She did get a
higher raise that year and that was his testimony.
He also testified that he had told her differently,
that she had done a very good job that year and
that's why she had gotten it, and the jury was
entitled to believe that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I didn't understand one
of your answers. Supposing that today the management
does not know of the prior discrimination. Just,
records that have been lost, it happened a long time
ago. But there was evidence that there was a firm
policy that women get 20 percent less than men
forever and it's still -- that policy has continued
up to date, but that these people making the decision
today did not know that. Would there be liability or
not?
MR. RUSSELL: There would.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I thought you said the
other. That's why I was --
MR. RUSSELL: I apologize if I was unclear
about that. There would be liability, and basic
agency law principles impute to the employer those
prior decisions. So it's not possible for Goodyear
as a matter of law to claim that it did not know
about those decisions when they occurred, and I'm not
aware of any principle of agency law --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the question is
whether or not there was a discriminatory act and if
the employer, let's say it's an employer that has
just purchased a business, thinks that it's a neutral
criterion to base wages or bonuses or increase on a
prior pay scale and he doesn't know about the prior
discrimination, why isn't that a defense?
MR. RUSSELL: It may be a defense. I'm
not quite certain how agency law principles apply in
that circumstance when there's been a change of
ownership. But certainly when there hasn't been it's
not unfair to the employer to say that so long as you
base present pay on long past decisions it's your
responsibility to make sure that that present pay is
not discriminatory.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And it's not
enough presumably for somebody to come in and even up
everybody? I mean, if you see that the women are
making 20 percent less than the men you don't escape
liability by paying everybody the same going forward,
because perhaps if nondiscriminatory decisions had
been made the women would have making 20 percent more
than the men. You have to go back and revisit every
pay decision or you're exposed to liability for
current pay.
MR. RUSSELL: That's true, that they have
an incentive to do so. They also have that incentive
concededly under the Equal Pay Act and nothing in
this Court's decision in this case is going to remove
that incentive or that burden. And the fact that
Congress didn't find that burden inappropriate under
the Equal Pay Act is good reason to think that
Congress wouldn't have thought it was inappropriate
here.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, what is your burden
to prove? You've talked about their burden to go
back when -- do I understand it that your view is
that the only thing you have to prove is that in this
case a woman was being paid at a rate which is
different from the rate of a man doing a comparable
job?
MR. RUSSELL: No, that's not our position.
We have to prove in addition that that disparity is
because of sex, which necessarily --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you too then have to
go, unless you can find a present policy to
discriminate on sex, you too in your proof have to go
back whatever it may be, you know, the 15 or 20
years?
MR. RUSSELL: Yes, and the longer that an
employee waits the longer it is for her to sustain
her burden of proof on that score. And in fact --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is that true?
I mean, it depends. I suppose it may be harder for
the company to mount a defense over time, so it may
be to her advantage to wait.
MR. RUSSELL: But if the employer can show
in fact that there is a disadvantage, that there is
prejudice, it can ask the court to limit the scope of
the claim or eliminate it entirely under an equitable
defense such as laches.
I think it's important to keep in mind
that this is not the first time that this Court has
struggled with this question when does the unlawful
employment practice occur in a disparate pay case.
This Court confronted precisely that question in
Bazemore and held that -- and rejected the Fourth
Circuit's interpretation in that case that the
present payment of a disparate wage was simply a
consequence and not in itself a present violation of
Title VII?
JUSTICE SOUTER: What do you say of the
explanation that was given in Bazemore? I forget the
subsequent case. It was in footnote 6. You know
what I mean. Which referred to Bazemore as a case
that involved a present discrimination which, which
is inconsistent with your theory. What do you say
about footnote 6?
MR. RUSSELL: I don't think it's
inconsistent. There was present discrimination.
There was, people were being paid less and it was
because of their race. It just so happened that the
because of their race was based on a decision that
was made before the effective date of the act. I
don't think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, the policy -- I
thought the assumption was that the policy was in
fact a policy which, which was sort of currently
honored and intended to be honored by the company,
whereas the case that we're concerned about is the
case in which there was a discriminatory act, you
know, 5, 10, 15 years ago. Nobody remembers the
discrimination now. It's just that it continues to
have these ripple effect consequences. I would have
thought that the subsequent explanation in Bazemore
would have been inconsistent with your position with
respect to the current ripple effect.
MR. RUSSELL: No, I don't think that's an
accurate description of what was going on in
Bazemore. Recall, for example, that there were
plaintiffs in Bazemore --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, do you take -- I'm
sorry, I can't think of the name of the case. You
know the case that I'm talking about with the
footnote?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Lorance?
JUSTICE SOUTER: I guess. Do you think
that the Court in the footnote misstated Bazemore and
that therefore we should trust to Bazemore and not
the subsequent explanation?
MR. RUSSELL: No. I thought -- I'd take
the footnote in Lorance, if that's what you're
referring to, to simply say that, like a facially
discriminatory pay policy which discriminates every
time it's implemented, a facially discriminatory
seniority policy that discriminates every time it's
implemented, the Court was -- considered in Bazemore
a similar kind of recurring violation because, just
like a facially discriminatory policy, a
discriminatory pay structure or pay decision treats
differently -- similarly situated people differently
every time it's implemented.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that assumes that the
company in effect says, we have a pay structure and
our pay structure as it is now treats people
differently depending on sex, race, or whatever. And
that's not the kind -- that's something very
different from the ripple effect argument.
MR. RUSSELL: I don't think that it is.
For example, remember that in Bazemore there were
plaintiffs, workers who were hired after the merger,
after 1965, and when they were hired they were paid
the same rate as the white employees, and the
disparity in their wages in 1972 arose solely because
of the discriminatory application of a merit-based
pay raise decision, system, which is exactly the same
kind of claim that we're making in this case. But
this Court nonetheless held that continuing to pay
workers, those workers, less than similarly situated
whites because of that discrimination that occurred
before the effective date of the act was still a
present violation of Title VII.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask this
question. Supposing in the annual review before a
promotion is concerned the officer making the
recommendation was instructed not only to decide what
increase would be appropriate but also to review past
history and decide whether or not the employee was
being paid fairly in a nondiscriminatory basis and
that was part of the assignment. Would you have a
case if that were the case?
MR. RUSSELL: The plaintiff would be
required to show that that de novo decision was
intentionally discriminatory.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You couldn't rely on the
past history in that situation?
MR. RUSSELL: That's right.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Because I think that's
sort of what Justice -- Judge Jofla thought was going
on here.
MR. RUSSELL: I don't think that he -- he
couldn't have thought that because the facts are
absolutely clear and Goodyear acknowledges in this
Court that the pay system that they had in place
simply made an annual decision whether to make a
marginal increase into the raise and took the prior
salary as given.
If I could, before I sit down, I'd like to
make the point that to the extent the Court doesn't
think Bazemore decides this case, and doesn't think
that the statute is clear on this question, it should
defer to the expert opinion of the EEOC on this
question in which they have particular expertise
because they see thousands of these claims every
year. They know better than anybody else whether the
paycheck accrual rule is unworkable in practice, or
that the pay decision accrual rule will lead to the
elimination of many claims that Congress would have
intended to preserve. If I could reserve the
remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you counsel.
Mr. Nager, we'll hear now from you.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GLEN D. NAGER
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MR. NAGER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
This Court has repeatedly said that a
claim of intentional discrimination is timely and
actionable only if it concerns intentionally
discriminatory acts taken during Title VII's charge
filing period.
And the question presented in this case
asks the Court to hold that a disparity in pay states
a timely actionable claim for intentional
discrimination if it is merely the result of
allegedly discriminatory actions taken outside of the
charge filing period. The question presented is
inconsistent with holding after holding of this
Court. When Goodyear issued paychecks during the
charge filing period, it did not commit intentionally
discriminatory acts. No one at Goodyear took
Miss Ledbetter's sex into account during the charge
filing period in deciding what to pay her.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Nager, can I test
your theory with a hypothetical question? Supposing
20 years ago, there was an actual written policy
statement, we pay women 20 percent less than men.
And that was written up and everybody knew it. And
then nothing changed for the next 20 years, and the
person then sued today. Would she be -- and there
was no intent to do anything, this is just the way
it's always been. Would she have a cause of action?
MR. NAGER: The answer to that, I think,
is no, if I understand your hypothetical, if the
employer was not intending to classify on the basis
of gender.
JUSTICE STEVENS: If present intent was
merely to do what we have always done, you have to go
back 20 years to find out that what we have always
done is the result of a policy decision made 20 years
ago that we can hire women at a less expense than men
so we will continue to pay the same rate. Would the
per paycheck rule apply to that case?
MR. NAGER: I think the answer is it
clearly would be untimely insofar as the allegation
is that there is discrimination today merely because
there was discrimination yesterday. Whether or not
there is discrimination going on during the charge
filing period, whether or not women are intentionally
being treated differently than men, I think the
answer, based upon your hypothetical, is no, given
what you've said.
JUSTICE ALITO: If the employer had a
policy of paying women, all women, 20 percent less
than men, and it continued that policy, surely it
would know in the present day when it issued those
paychecks that it was paying women less than men. So
it would be intentionally discriminating at this
time, wouldn't it?
MR. NAGER: Justice Alito, that's why I
qualified my answer to Justice Stevens, because I
think that the question his hypothetical raises, like
your question, goes to the sufficiency of evidence
necessary to prove intent during the charge filing
period. And I don't want in any way to be heard that
there is anything in our position in this case that
tries to answer that question.
The reason I'm not trying to answer that
question in this case is because that question is not
before the Court except with one small respect. If
the only thing that the plaintiff is relying upon is
discrimination outside of the charge filing period,
that is legally insufficient under this Court's cases
in Evans, Ricks, Lorance and Machinists before it.
What Bazemore dealt with was a case very
much like your hypothetical, Justice Alito, of an
allegation of an ongoing racial classification during
the actionable time period. And it was because of
that allegation of ongoing actionable racial
classification and pay that there was both a timely
claim, and according to Justice Brennan's opinion for
all nine members of the Court of that -- in that
case, a very serious potential error by the district
court in that case as to whether or not it had been
clearly erroneous in holding that the United States
had failed its proof of proving an ongoing
intentional race discrimination case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Nager, why did it
make any sense to treat this area any different from
the Equal Pay Act.
MR. NAGER: Because they are two different
statutes and the elements of the plaintiff's claims
are fundamentally different. That's the fundamental
flaw in the petitioner's claim in this case. Let me
explain, if I may, Justice Scalia.
In a Title VII case, in an intentional
discrimination case, the question is whether or not
there is an act that is motivated by gender during
the charge filing period. That is not an element of
the plaintiff's cause of action in an Equal Pay Act
case.
In an Equal Pay Act case, all the
plaintiff has to do is allege they are performing
equal work to a male, and that they are paid
differently. And it's that cause of action that
triggers the statute of limitations in an Equal Pay
Act case. That's fundamentally different. As Chief
Justice Roberts said --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why is it different if
the one further statement was made. And the employer
knew that every woman is being paid less than every
man. Why isn't that sufficient under Title VII, and
if you want evidence, your own supervisor said, oh,
we saw one year that she was outside the range
appropriate for this job.
MR. NAGER: Well, knowledge is a necessary
condition, but it's not a sufficient condition,
Justice Ginsburg. In Evans, the employer knew it
previously had a sexual -- a gender-based
discriminatory policy about whether or not female
flight attendants could work after they got married.
But that prior knowledge of prior discrimination by
the employer wasn't sufficient to make the neutral
action taken --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Evans involved a factor
that simply is not present here. I mean, Evans
involved a seniority system. And if this person who
had been off the job were to come back two years
later, and bump people who had been there every day,
well, certainly that's a different case than this
one, where she is saying, I should have been paid
equally. I wasn't. And I know I can go back only
two years. That's quite a bit different than the
Evans situation.
MR. NAGER: Justice Ginsburg, Title VII
allows proof of dissimilar treatment as evidence of
present intentional discrimination, but it's not the
elements of the claim. As Chief Justice Roberts was
pointing out, Title VII would prohibit paying a woman
the same amount as a male if the employer would have
paid the female more because she had a -- more
degrees or other criteria that the employer
ordinarily took into account.
The elements of those two claims are
fundamentally different. What makes this case
untimely and unactionable is that there is no claim
and there can be no claim because it's the law of the
case that Goodyear took Miss Ledbetter's sex into
account during the charge filing period.
What Goodyear did was the same kind of
neutral rule as in Evans. What Goodyear did was it
said, we are looking at the pay rate contained in our
payroll system, and applying those rates as they are
mandated for all of our employees, male or female.
And what Goodyear did at the beginning of each
evaluation period was say, we are starting this
payroll period with the pay rates that were paid in
the last period for all of our employees, male or
female, no matter what their prior causes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If only the 180 day
period counts, and she can complain only about
discrimination in that period, then how do you
account for her being able to go back not 180 days,
but two years for her remedy?
MR. NAGER: The two-year rule is only a
damages rule that applies only in Title VII cases.
And it's triggered in cases such as where there has
been equitable tolling or equitable estoppel, because
the employer -- it was a promotion case or a pay case
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought it was the
lid on the amount of compensation you could get in
Title VII cases. You can't go back more than two
years for damages. But it would seem that doesn't
fit at all whether you can go back only 180 days.
MR. NAGER: No. What the 180 days is for
is determining the time period during which the
allegedly illegal act must occur. That period can be
tolled using a tolling rule. It can tolled for three
years possibly. The back pay rule says, even if you
tolled the statute of limitations for more than the
two-year back pay period, you can only get back pay
for two years. What is going on, of course, in this
case, is they are trying to use allegedly
discriminatory acts that occurred 10, 15, 20 years
ago, both to make neutral acts actionable, and to get
compensatory and punitive damages.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why is she claiming
that in 1995, a supervisor recognized that my pay was
way out of line. Isn't that what the supervisor
testified?
MR. NAGER: He did. And he said he raised
her pay up the maximum amount he was entitled to that
year. And she didn't file a charge of discrimination
in 1995.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Maybe she thought that,
well, they are on the right track. Next year, they
are going to raise me up to the equal pay level.
MR. NAGER: And what the purpose of the
charge filing requirement under Title VII, as this
Court has repeatedly said, is to require that
employee to come forward promptly within 180 days of
the date that the alleged unlawful employment action
is communicated to her, and bring that claim or lose
it, that the purpose of Section 706 was to create
repose.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The question that I
asked Mr. Nager that I think is really important, and
that is, where do you put these pay cases? Do you
put it in the box with the hostile environment that
builds up over time, and as long as the environment
is hostile at the time you bring your complaint, then
it doesn't matter that it started 20 years ago. This
notion of one year, it's 2 percent, and the other
person got 3 percent, you really don't have an
effective claim unless it builds up to the point
where there is a noticeable disparity.
MR. NAGER: Justice Ginsburg, the
petitioner in this case has agreed with us that this
is the kind of discrete employment action that
triggers the 180-day period. It is not like a sexual
harassment claim.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where is that
agreement?
MR. NAGER: It's in their brief. They
repeatedly quote the portion of Morgan which
described pay claims as discrete acts subject to the
discrete trigger rule in the Morgan opinion. And
that, of course, is an obvious concession that they
had to make in this case, because Mr. Russell would
not concede when Justice Scalia asked that that first
pay rate decision was not an identifiable act, that
it wasn't an actionable -- immediately actionable
claim.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that the
Morgan decision quotes Bazemore for saying, under
Title VII, each week's paycheck that delivered less
to a black than to a similarly situated white is a
wrong, actionable under Title VII.
MR. NAGER: And that's in the portion of
the opinion that's dealing with discrete employment
action. It's not in the portion of the opinion
dealing with sexual harassment claims. I'm trying to
answer your question about which portion of Morgan
pay claims fall into.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Whatever portion it's
in, it says each week's paycheck that delivered less
to a black than to a similarly situated white is a
wrong, actionable --
MR. NAGER: Because Justice Thomas'
opinion was accurately describing the holding in
Bazemore on the facts of Bazemore, because in
Bazemore there was a claim, in contrast to this case,
of ongoing intentional race discrimination in
classifying employees on the basis of their race and
paying the black employees less than the whites. If
the Court would look at the remand order in the
Bazemore case, they'll see that the Court did not
remand with instructions that judgment be entered for
the United States merely because there was a
disparity in salaries.
JUSTICE BREYER: Justice Brennan's opinion
sounds to me, part one, as if he is saying what the
mistake was that the company made here is that they
didn't really eradicate the effects of the past bad
act, and they were trying to eradicate it.
MR. NAGER: Well, actually, the United
States' allegations in the case were trying --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's another part of
the case that's part two and part three about the
evidence that came in. In fact, there are about six
other parts. I'm just talking about part one.
MR. NAGER: That's part one.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. All right. So I
read that. Now, this is my this is my cost/benefit
analysis here. If we follow the other side's rule,
it's very simple, we just said Bazemore applies,
whether there's a practice or whether it was a
discrete thing, or whatever, so it's simple. But we
do have to distinguish pay from the other kinds of
things. And we have heard them explain why there is
a distinction. I'd rather get to your side and then
you can attack both, or whatever.
Your side of it, it seems to me, if I
agree to you, I now have to create in the law some
kind of thing that sounds very complicated about
whether that old bad thing was somehow a pattern or a
practice that, as a pattern or a practice, didn't get
eradicated within the last few years, or was a
totally discrete act, and therefore, had no
implication as a pattern or practice that didn't get
eradicated. That sounds hard.
And the second thing I guess I'd have to
do is to create a lot of tolling law because there
will be probably a significant number of
circumstances where a woman is being paid less, and
all she does is for the last six months get her
paychecks and she doesn't really know it because pay
is a complicated thing, and through no fault of her
own, it takes about eight or nine months or even a
year for her to find out. And we are going to have
to toll, aren't we?
So I have, legally speaking, a complicated
tolling system that I have to graft on to this, your
case. I also have to start distinguishing Bazemore
which is pretty hard to do. But on the other side,
they are just saying, go with the flow. Nobody is
really hurt, because the employer has to worry about
all this stuff anyway under the Equal Pay Act. I'm
giving you that summary so you can just shoot it
down.
MR. NAGER: Well, it was a compound
question, but I'll try to answer each of its parts.
The first point I would make is that
Bazemore came after Evans and Hazelwood and Ricks,
and it did not distinguish Evans or Hazelwood or
Ricks on the grounds that Bazemore is a pay case and
Hazelwood and Evans were not pay cases. It
distinguished them on the grounds of whether or not
the alleged discrimination was taking place in the
charge filing period. So this notion that Bazemore
stands as a proposition that Evans and Lorance and
that line of cases doesn't apply because they don't
apply to pay cases was not the opinion of the Court
in Bazemore.
Secondly, we are not asking you, and I
don't think it takes any difficulty to apply the rule
that we are proposing in this case. We are proposing
the same rule that's set forth in Justice Stevens'
opinion for the Court in Evans, the same rule that's
set forth in Justice Powell's opinion in Ricks, the
same rule that's set forward in Justice Scalia's
opinion for the Court in Lorance.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But there is a slight
difference in that you're focused on whether
discrimination occurred within the 180-day period.
And if I understand you correctly, discrimination
would have occurred during the 180-day period if the
employer knew of the policy that I described, because
then he would be knowingly paying less.
MR. NAGER: No. Not if he had knowledge
of --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I thought your answer to
Justice Alito made that point.
MR. NAGER: Well, what I said to Justice
Alito was, if the employer knew that it previously
had a policy and if it knew and intended that its
present pay would be done for gender-related reasons
or racially-related reasons, it would constitute --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the question of
whether just knowing that that's a source of the
policy would be a gender-related reason.
MR. NAGER: Well, the question is whether
there was a present policy. That's the point the
Solicitor General makes in its brief and the point we
make in our brief.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, in my hypothetical
there was a policy established 20 years ago, a 20
percent differential, never been changed. And the
only question that would differ, in some cases the
employer knows about it and in some others he
doesn't.
MR. NAGER: And if the employer is
presently applying, and knowingly and intentionally
doing so, a 20 percent differential for male and
female employees for no reason other than the gender
of the employees, that's a present violation.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, what his reason
is, this is always the way we did it. That's his
reason.
MR. NAGER: Well, if what he's saying is,
the way we have always done it is engage in gender
discrimination, then doing it in the present time
period would state a present claim.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But suppose he has no
intent to discriminate as a present matter, but he
also knows that his decision is necessarily based on
a policy that was discriminatory some years ago.
What result?
MR. NAGER: I think if I understood the
question, Justice Kennedy, I think no present claim,
because the only thing you said that he knew is that
they previously engaged in discriminatory actions.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: He knows it, but his
present decision is necessarily based on some prior
decision that was discriminatory.
MR. NAGER: That in and of itself is not
sufficient. That's the point that, the seniority
system in Lorance was necessarily based upon an
earlier decision that the employer --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How is that -- how is
that consistent with the statement in Bazemore that
the employer has a duty to eradicate past
discrimination?
MR. NAGER: Well, the duty was to
eradicate the alleged ongoing facially discriminatory
pay practices that preceded the enactment of Title
VII and were alleged to have been maintained for
racially purposeful reasons after Title VII became
effective to a public employer. There is no
contemplation in that case that that duty would
require an employer to investigate discrete
employment decisions made in years gone by that
weren't made the subject of a timely charge. What
this Court has said repeatedly is when the charge
filing period passes and no charge is brought, the
employer is entitled to treat that past act as if it
was a lawful act. That's what Justice Thomas'
opinion in Morgan says. That's what, the opinion
that Justice Stevens wrote for the Court in Evans.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is that so even if they
know it was in fact originally an unlawful act?
MR. NAGER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You draw a line between
present purposeful discrimination and present
knowledge of past discrimination which is knowingly
carried forward.
MR. NAGER: That's correct. Because the
purpose of Section 706(e) is to give repose for those
past decisions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you describe
dealing with a case like Manhart where they were
complaining about a pension plan that had been
instituted, oh, way longer than 180 days, years and
years before?
MR. NAGER: That plan was facially
discriminatory. It included on the face of the plan
gender-based mortality tables. And as Justice
Scalia's opinion for the Court in Lorance and the
footnote that Justice Souter pointed out to, a
facially discriminatory policy necessarily evidences
present intent each time it is applied, and that is
the important distinction. On the one hand you have
cases that are both timely and as a matter of law
show present intent because they are facially
discriminatory. On the other end of the continuum
you have cases that are only about past
discrimination and do not involve any present
actionable claim of intentional discrimination, and
they are both untimely and legally insufficient. And
then you have the cases in the middle which concern
present allegations of discriminatory practices so
obnoxious, as alleged in Bazemore, that the Court
held that district court may have been clearly
erroneous in its conclusion that there was no present
intentional discrimination.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Nager. Mr. Gornstein?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF IRVING L. GORNSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. NAGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Title VII gives employees like petitioner
180 days to challenge an individual pay decision such
as a denial of a pay raise. Employees who allow the
180-day period to pass may not years later and even
at the end of their careers challenge their current
paychecks on the grounds that they are the result of
a number of discrete individually discriminatory pay
decisions that occurred long ago.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This would be a good
Equal Pay Act case, wouldn't it?
MR. NAGER: If it met the requirements of
the Equal Pay Act, which is that it has to be the
same knowledge, skills and responsibilities and
effort for the job, then every time that you have a
failure to deliver equal pay for equal work there is
a violation of the act. But Title VII is not an
equal pay for equal work statute, it is a
nondiscrimination statute, and so that you have to
show intentional discrimination in pay, not just the
absence of equal pay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why doesn't it become
intentional, at least after 1995, when the supervisor
recognizes that he's got an employee that is out of
the appropriate range for her job, whether she does
it badly or well?
MR. GORNSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, if an
employee brought a claim within 180 days of the
decision made then, that is to not, to not equalize
the pay further --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why would she bring it
then? They gave her a big raise that year.
MR. GORNSTEIN: Well, because I think what
you're suggesting is they didn't give her a big
enough raise, because there was still intentional
discrimination from prior years that were not, that
were unchallenged.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Didn't she have every
reason to expect, well, they finally noticed it, so
next year I'm going to get that same size raise, but
that it doesn't happen the next year?
MR. GORNSTEIN: And if it doesn't happen
that next year, then that employee has 180 days to
challenge that pay decision on the ground that it's
intentionally discriminatory. If she does not do
that, she cannot come back 15 years later and say
that a decision that was made 15 years ago and 14
years ago were based on my gender, and they --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: She is not talking
about a decision made 15 or 14 in this case. She
starts out even, and it builds up over time.
MR. GORNSTEIN: Well, I think in some, in
some cases that, pay cases, it will build up over
time. In some cases it will happen immediately. But
in either case, what Title VII says is that you have
180 days to challenge a discrete pay decision. If
you do not do that, you cannot come back later, years
later, four years later, six years later, or here at
the end of her career, and challenge every pay
decision that's been made up until then on the
grounds that intent, it was intentionally
discriminatory and continues to have ongoing effects.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you could if the
person making the decision was aware of the
discriminatory policy.
MR. GORNSTEIN: Knowledge of prior
unlawful acts is relevant evidence in deciding
whether it's present day intentional discrimination.
But just as in a case where there's a promotion and
I'm aware that there was a prior discrimination in a
promotion and that was not timely challenged, and the
person comes to me today and says I want my promotion
now. If I'm aware that she was denied that promotion
for discriminatory reason but she did not timely
challenge it, my decision not to give her that
promotion is not automatically discriminatory.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you're changing the
hypothetical. My hypothetical was simply a pay case.
MR. GORNSTEIN: I understand that, and I'm
saying the same rule applies in a pay case that
applies in a promotion case.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You're saying, I think
contrary to your colleague if I remember correctly,
that even if the employer knew of the 20 percent
differential policy established 20 years ago, it
could still carry it into effect today.
MR. GORNSTEIN: What I'm saying with
respect to a policy is if you have an ongoing policy
that is still being applied in the limitations
period, and that your current policy is to pay less
to women than to men, then of course you can sue.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's say it's the
same person who made the decision. You know, five
years ago he said I'm giving a 6 percent raise to
men, I'm giving a 3 percent raise to women, and then
he decides that's illegal, and so from now on
everybody is going to get a 4 percent raise every
year if you meet certain standards. Is that ongoing
discrimination or is that a neutral thing, that he
doesn't have to take into account the past
discrimination?
MR. GORNSTEIN: That's a neutral discrete
act that was made at the time. It was not
challenged.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even though he
knows that it carries forward the illegal
discrimination?
MR. GORNSTEIN: Even when the employer --
you can have an inference from knowledge of past
illegal conduct that your present intent is to carry
forward that differential based on the person's sex,
but it is not an automatic inference. You can also,
the employer could say look, that was a decision that
occurred a while ago. A lot of people did this.
There were decisions made that affected a lot of
other people --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you're talking
about --
MR. GORNSTEIN: -- and I didn't correct
those either, and that's a neutral policy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's a defense.
And you're talking about, yes, you might draw that
inference but that inference would be wrong because I
have a defense. The defense is poor performance
explains it, not sex discrimination.
MR. GORNSTEIN: But under Title VII, poor
performance isn't a defense. It is negating
intentional discrimination. It's the employer's
employee's burden --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought at least in
this area, the defenses were the same as under the
Equal Pay Act.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, there are -- there is
an additional layer of defense, but still the
employee has to prove an additional element in a
Title VII claim, not just the absence of equal pay
for equal work, it has to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Gornstein, why should
we listen to the Solicitor General rather than the
EEOC? I mean, they have taken a different position
from the one that you're urging upon us.
MR. GORNSTEIN: The EEOC has taken a
different position but that decision that the EEOC
has taken has been based on its reading of this
Court's decision in Bazemore, and this Court does not
give deference to the EEOC under Skidmore or under
any other standard.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So why don't we at
least hear from the EEOC? That has happened in other
cases where the Department of Justice and the EEOC
take different positions, at least the EEOC filed a
brief even though it wasn't the Government's brief.
MR. GORNSTEIN: That has occasionally
happened in the past. It has not happened as a
regular matter, or to my knowledge it does not
ordinarily occur. The EEOC --
JUSTICE SOUTER: If the EEOC is upheld in
the Court of Appeals and review is sought here, will
the Government confess error?
MR. GORNSTEIN: I'm sorry, Justice Souter?
JUSTICE SOUTER: If the EEOC decision is
upheld by one of the Courts of Appeals and there is
an attempt to bring the case here on cert, will the
Government confess error?
MR. GORNSTEIN: If the Court rules in the
Government's favor in this case, then that case would
have to be vacated and remanded for reconsideration
in light of this Court's decision today. The EEOC's
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I'm asking a
simpler question. Let's assume that somehow we fudge
it. If -- if there is a clear cut case in which the
EEOC takes a position different from the one the
Government is now espousing, and a Court of Appeals
upholds it, and cert is sought here, will the
Solicitor General say please remand, or simply
confess judgment?
MR. GORNSTEIN: Justice Souter, I would
like to answer that question today but of course if
the Court doesn't resolve the question today that's
been decided today, but issues a new decision,
anything we would have to do would have to look at
that new decision and make a judgment about what the
law is at that time. And so my -- my point is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I think I got your point.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Touche.
MR. GORNSTEIN: To go on, there are three
decisions of this Court that control the result here,
Evans, Ricks and Lorance, each of which says that the
employee cannot circumvent the limitations period by
challenging conduct within the limitations period on
the grounds that it is the result of a prior act of
intentional discrimination that was not timely
challenged.
A second reason to reject petitioner's
rule is that petitioner's rule, as petitioner admits,
creates a special rule for pay cases when there is
nothing in the language of Title VII that would
justify a special rule. Title VII has the same
mandate of nondiscrimination for pay as for any other
practice. It has the same 180-day period for pay
claims as any other claim.
And the third reason to reject
petitioner's view is that it would undo the statute
of limitations in pay cases, because the result would
be, what you have here is that an employee could wait
until the end of their career, or at least a very
substantial number of years, and then challenge
current pay on the basis of past acts that took place
a long time ago. And Justice Breyer, you talked
about it being limited to just back pay during the
two-year period. The courts that have looked at this
have not decided whether it's the 180-day period or
the two-year period if you buy petitioner's theory, I
don't think he has either. But the important
additional point of order is you're still hinging
liability on past acts long ago and you're adding the
possibility of compensatory relief and punitive
damages, so it's not the limited damage award that
you're contemplating necessarily.
JUSTICE BREYER: What would you do on the
other side of this? It if you win on this, then
don't you have to have a fairly relaxed standard of
allowing the woman, tolling or something, when she
just gets some paychecks that would take her a while
to figure out that these are really reflecting some
old discrimination and she doesn't know. It's
different in that respect from the promotion itself.
MR. GORNSTEIN: Well in some -- if she's
denied a pay raise and she's aware that other people
are getting substantial pay raises -- I don't think
it's that much different than somebody else getting
the promotion and me not getting that promotion.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, she knows this.
She knows that, all these boxes on her paychecks and
she's not quite sure what they mean. All right, your
answer is not much different.
MR. GORNSTEIN: Well, to the extent that
you want to address equitable tolling. That's the
question, should there be equitable tolling until
such time as she's aware of the disparity. But what
petitioner's theory does is says even after the
employee is aware of the disparity she can wait 15
more years and then sue.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
counsel.
Mr. Russell, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN K. RUSSELL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. RUSSELL: I think the fundamental
disagreement in this case comes down to what is the
unlawful employment practice Congress was referring
to when it prohibited discrimination with respect to
compensation. If it is under our view, in our view,
the payment of an intentionally disparate wage, then
there's no question that under Bazemore the violation
occurred during the limitations period. The fact
that the intent was formed outside the limitations
period doesn't make the present payment of a
disparate wage because of sex any less intentionally
discriminatory. But the difference in the
conceptions, which frankly isn't answered by the
plain text of this statute itself, should be resolved
in light of the practical consequences of the
differences in the rules.
The Solicitor General acknowledges that a
paycheck accrual rule applies at least in a case of a
policy of discrimination, but that's a very difficult
rule to administer for the EEOC, which must make a
determination of timeliness before it even has
authority to investigate a claim. It shouldn't be
left to the EEOC to figure out whether there's an
unwritten practice or an unwritten policy which would
require an extensive investigation not only of the
petitioner's pay but of everybody else's. You recall
that in Bazemore they had to conduct a multiple
regression analysis to establish a pattern of
discrimination there.
Our rule is simple to administer and has
been administered for decades in the lower courts and
it's the rule that the EEOC itself has chosen in
construing this ambiguous aspect of the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you agree that their
action is just based on Bazemore or their reading of
Bazemore?
MR. RUSSELL: No, that's incorrect. I
mean, the EEOC has taken this position that you can
challenge present pay disparities even before the
Court's decision in Bazemore and it continued to
adhere to it afterward. The fact that they cited to
Bazemore shouldn't disentitle them to the kind of
deference that they're ordinarily entitled to when
they construe a statute that's given to them, and
this is precisely the kind of question Congress would
have entitled them to exercise their expertise on.
Finally, I would like to raise the point
that under respondent's rule the Extension Service
would have been permitted to pay blacks less than
white in perpetuity in Bazemore so long as it did so
because of cost and not because it wanted to continue
to discriminate on the basis of race. And similarly,
under the Solicitor General's view an employer who
had intentionally discriminated through discrete
decisions against some of its employees prior to the
act would be allowed to continue to do so after the
act because the decision would have been the
potentially unlawful act in that case and that
wouldn't have been actionable.
We respectfully suggest that Congress
intended nothing than a complete --
JUSTICE ALITO: How could cost justify a
dual pay scale?
MR. RUSSELL: It could -- the Extension
Service --
JUSTICE ALITO: You'd have to have another
factor in the decision, which was that you didn't
want to change pay. But cost alone couldn't justify
that.
MR. RUSSELL: It would be a
nondiscriminatory reason. They would -- they would
say that, the reason we didn't immediately equalize
salaries is because it cost too much, it would have
required -- we'd be required to cut down on our
programs. And under respondent's view that is not
intentionally pay-maintaining discrimination.
JUSTICE ALITO: No, you'd have to say, we
don't want to spend any more and we also don't want
to equalize pay. You have to say the second too.
MR. RUSSELL: They would say, we don't
want to equalize pay because it costs too much, and
that's not a discriminatory reason for maintaining
the prior disparity. But ultimately --
JUSTICE ALITO: If you say you're not
going to equalize pay, you're saying you're going to
discriminate on the basis of race.
MR. RUSSELL: Which is what happened here.
Goodyear continued to discriminate on the basis of
sex, knowing as a matter of agency law that it had
done, it had set her pay for discriminatory reasons
in the past.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can equalize
pay by lowering others. You don't -- raising the
discriminated-against class is not the only way to
equalize pay. So I don't see how cost is a
justification for continuing the disparity.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not under the Equal Pay
Act. You can only equalize up, not down.
MR. RUSSELL: That's true.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under Title VII
you can equalize either way, right?
MR. RUSSELL: It would, but if they chose
not to equalize at all because they don't want to
spend the money the money that would be a
nondiscriminatory reason.
JUSTICE ALITO: You'd certainly have a
very happy work force if you equalized one way.
MR. RUSSELL: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:04 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
35:14 37:11,11 agreed 36:22 55:16 assignment
60:16 45:17 58:12 agrees 3:24 8:9 56:16 Assistant 1:20
28:19 43:11 30:6,13 31:4 anti-discrimin... assumed 18:21
37:5 48:21 60:9 27:23 assumption
33:21 actual 14:22 29:23 31:5,7 apologize 20:17 attack 39:11
50:4 29:4 allegations apparently attempt 52:17
8:1,10,12 adding 54:21 allege 8:11 15:3 Appeals 52:12 32:24
27:24,25 addition 22:16 32:6 52:16 53:3 attributing
additional 51:13 alleged 36:6 APPEARAN... 11:11
adjudicating alleges 4:23 applied 8:2 automatically
17:17 administer allowed 58:9 applies 34:19 avail 15:11
56:20 56:23 57:8 allowing 55:3 39:5 49:9,10 average 7:10
8:9,15 57:9 ambiguous apply 21:7 29:21 award 54:23
13:3 admits 53:25 57:11 41:1,2,5 aware 20:23
14:12 adopted 3:24 amendment applying 34:6 48:18,24 49:2
17:11,16 13:2 13:19 42:17 55:9,20,22
19:2 advantage 23:4 amicus 1:22 appropriate awfully 11:3
22:1,5 afterward 57:19 2:10 19:21 26:20 a.m 1:14 3:2
26:14 agency 17:24 amount 7:11 32:18 47:4
19:14 17:13 18:5 area 7:18 31:17 B
32:1,3,5
35:6 20:19,23 21:7 33:18 34:25 51:10 B 11:7
38:19 59:17 35:21 argued 4:21 back 13:25 14:7
40:12 ago 10:23 14:11 analysis 39:4 argument 1:13 14:9 15:22
14:17 15:8,9 57:6 2:2,5,8,12 3:4 18:9 21:21
15:18,22 16:18 analytical 4:8 3:7 6:3 26:1 22:10,21 29:17
51:11 16:23 18:3,13 12:19 28:6 46:2 56:2 33:6,10 34:16
58:9,10 19:4,5 20:8 analytically 5:6 arising 3:21 35:1,3,8,10,10
60:1 24:15 29:4,19 annual 26:17 arose 26:7 47:25 48:11
14:1 42:11 43:6 anomalous 13:5 37:9 background
32:3,8 46:13 48:1,2 answer 11:14 asking 41:4 12:22
36:6,23 49:14,23 50:18 16:1 29:11,22 52:24 bad 38:18 39:15
57:13 54:14,21 30:4,14,20,21 asks 28:16 badly 47:5
boxes 55:14 23:16,22,23 chance 16:9 45:17 47:7
18:12 38:15 25:2 26:10,24 change 11:5 56:25
30:4 43:5 Breyer 13:25 26:24 27:18 21:8 58:21 claiming 35:16
48:2 14:10,16 38:15 28:15 29:21 changed 29:7 claims 8:7,20
51:23 38:22 39:2 30:19,22 31:3 42:12 13:23,24 14:19
54:14,25 55:13 31:11,12,15,22 changing 49:6 14:23 27:22
20:18 52:6,6 32:5,10 33:8 14:25 28:13,20 33:22 37:5,21
14:25 16:15,19 36:7 34:22 35:12 30:17,25 32:2 class 59:22
29:13 36:15 47:10 36:22 37:8 34:2 35:22 classification
54:13 52:17 38:6,11,21,23 36:3 40:24 31:5,8
59:14,16 brings 14:3 40:8,20 41:6 44:7,8,9 classify 29:13
47:7 48:4,9,23 49:7 Chief 3:3,9 clear 18:15
build 48:7 49:9,10 52:17 10:17 11:14 27:11,19 53:1
26:3 builds 16:5 52:20,20 53:1 13:12 15:2,16 clearly 29:23
31:3 36:14,19 48:5 56:5,21 58:11 15:21 16:17,22 31:13 45:22
38:5,5,6 built 18:6,12,12 60:14,15 21:14 23:1 colleague 49:12
39:5 bump 33:7 cases 9:23 31:1 25:4 28:4,8 collect 14:13
burden 17:23 34:19,20 35:1 32:10 33:16 come 8:4 9:6
43:20 22:3,4,8,9,25 36:12 40:21 45:25 46:4 21:15 33:6
51:24 51:8 41:1,2 42:13 49:21 50:9 36:5 47:25
57:5,13 burdens 8:10 45:12,15,19 55:24 59:20 48:11
business 21:2 48:7,7,8 52:4 60:3,12 comes 49:1 56:5
buy 54:18 54:1,9 choose 6:14 commit 28:23
34:8 C 29:10 32:3,8 chosen 57:10 14:23,24 17:4
2:4,7,14 call 12:13 12:25 34:12 circumstance 36:7
28:7 46:3 career 48:13 cert 52:17 53:4 21:8 company 1:7 3:5
54:11 certain 21:7 circumstances 10:9 11:5,7,19
12:2 14:4,10 challenged 28:11,17 31:9 complain 34:14
constituted 3:17 23:14 25:6,15 44:25 degrees 33:20
construe 57:22 30:23 31:10,12 decide 26:19,21 deliver 46:20
40:2,6 57:11 41:2,8,11 44:8 54:17 37:25
Conte 7:1 45:22 46:5 49:25 46:8
Conte's 7:3 54:16 57:9 10:18 16:13 depend 11:10
continued 20:10 52:22 57:18 22:2 24:6 depends 23:2
24:16 48:16 criteria 33:20 43:5,13,14,18 described 37:5
17:12 26:11 curiae 1:22 2:10 48:1,4,10,14 describing 38:4
57:5 continuum 21:23 24:20 50:17 51:22,24 24:22
contrary 49:12 54:13 53:12 57:18 56:24
control 53:17 cut 10:8 18:11 decisions 4:4,5,8 determining
8:12 14:15 44:21 9:24 19:16 dictated 18:4
13:2 50:23 D 20:20,22 21:11 differ 42:13
22:4 correctly 41:15 D 1:18 2:6 3:1 21:19 44:6,23 difference 5:15
28:1 56:6 49:12 28:6 46:13 50:19 5:23 13:17
58:13 cost 58:4,15,21 damage 54:23 53:17 58:8 41:13 56:15
cost/benefit 39:3 54:23 defense 9:16 different 4:4,25
23:18 55:25 60:13 26:14 36:6 19:9 21:5,6 13:3,10,24
56:18 course 35:11 34:13 48:22 51:3,3,6,13 31:17,19,21
court 1:1,13 36:5 45:2 46:7 51:10 51:22 52:5
43:20 12:17 18:14 de 27:1 deference 51:25 55:16
49:14 29:24,25 30:1 38:14 55:20,22 24:17,20 25:22 43:21 44:3,5
30:25 31:15,25 59:11,24 26:1 49:15 44:10 49:13
5:13 6:1 34:15 35:22 dissimilar 33:14 26:14 36:19 employers 8:11
25:19,19 38:7 40:23 distinction 6:12 44:3 17:23
30:3 41:14,15 43:1 39:10 45:11 effects 38:18 employer's 8:6
43:22 44:18,19 distinctions 4:9 48:16 51:7
19:3,3,8 48:22,24 50:3 distinguished either 48:9 36:6,23 37:19
50:5,11 51:4,7 40:22 50:24 54:19 44:6 56:6
56:7,22 57:7 40:8 element 32:2 enactment
discriminatory 31:11 45:22 elements 13:16 engage 42:25
6:18 10:5,18 22:13 42:18 33:16,22 ensuing 17:1
19:2,12,16 dramatically eliminate 23:8 entire 17:9
39:7 25:17,18 26:8 44:17 51:1 employee 4:2,16 35:21 44:10
44:5 27:2 28:13,19 drawing 12:20 4:22,24 5:9 57:21,24
48:10 28:24 32:23 dropped 8:17 6:15 7:22 environment
58:7 35:13 43:6,11 dual 58:16 14:24 17:10,14 36:13,14
22:20 45:9,14,20 44:4 22:24 26:21 8:9,15,16,17
58:5 46:12 47:24 D.C 1:9,16,18 36:5 47:3,7,22 8:20 9:1,10,20
48:16,19 49:3 1:22 51:14 53:19 13:2,13,20
59:10,18 E employees 3:14 22:1,5 31:18
dismissing 8:19 earlier 10:18 34:11 38:8,9 40:12 46:15,17
4:13,16 6:16 earn 5:10 46:8 58:8 46:25 51:11,15
56:14 EEOC 3:12 7:13 employer 9:5,21 equalize 47:8
4:25 5:3,6 57:17 51:19,21,22,25 15:11 17:8,9 59:13,20,23
7:13,25 disparity 7:3,9 52:3,4,5,10,11 17:17 18:15,18 60:1,4,6
9:19 10:22 7:11,20,21 52:15 53:2 19:5,14 20:19 equalized 60:10
13:8 15:1 8:21 9:22,25 56:23 57:1,10 21:1,1,10 23:5 equally 33:10
18:8 10:15 11:8,22 57:16 29:13 30:6 equitable 15:12
13:7 14:1 15:1 EEOC's 52:22 32:13,21 33:1 23:8 34:21,21
21:5 17:18 19:6 effect 10:24 33:18,20 34:22 55:18,19
24:3,16 22:16 26:7 12:10,14,16 40:11 41:17,24 eradicate 38:18
43:21,24 expert 27:20 42:19 fudge 52:25 gives 46:6
57:24 figure 55:5 57:1 fundamental 40:13 49:23,24
39:9 filed 3:12 15:19 fundamentally 28:6
explanation filing 14:25 33:23 14:7 15:22
Extension 58:1 34:2 36:3 G 35:1,3 40:10
49:14 55:17 find 8:5 9:19 48:2 6:8 14:16 16:2
faced 9:15 23:11 37:9 general 1:21 35:11 36:1
32:21 25:17 43:24 fit 35:3 51:18 53:5 50:1 59:13,13
34:4 45:4,9,13 five 49:22 56:20 good 6:17 11:3
facie 9:3 flaw 31:22 General's 58:6 12:20 20:1
44:13 fact 7:2 8:22 flight 32:24 getting 6:9 9:4,5 22:5 46:14
13:11 14:19 flow 40:10 14:6 16:8 Goodyear 1:6
17:17 22:3,25 23:6 follow 39:4 Ginsburg 6:2 27:11 28:22,24
29:6 24:11 38:24 footnote 23:22 8:14,25 9:13 34:1,3,4,8
57:4 44:15 56:11 24:1 25:3,6,10 13:18 15:15 59:16
30:16 factor 9:6,7,22 force 60:10 32:12,21 33:3 2:9 46:1,2 47:6
33:14 17:20 33:3 forever 20:10 33:13 34:13,24 47:12,21 48:6
48:21 58:20 forget 23:21 35:16,24 36:10 48:20 49:8,16
13:4 failure 9:10 10:24 21:18 47:10,17 48:3 53:7,16 55:8
26:3 46:20 36:5 41:10 50:21,25 51:9 55:17
fault 40:2 frankly 56:16 51:25 Government's
33:19 34:7,12 Friday 3:25 57:22 graft 40:7
46:11 hypothetical inequality 6:9 involved 23:24 32:11,12,21
53:21 29:3,12 30:4 inference 50:13 33:3,5 33:3,13,16
49:7,7 information 2:9 46:2 35:24 36:10,21
37:10 instance 9:18 issues 53:10 41:12,21,22,23
14:11 49:25 50:10,14 instituted 45:2 43:3,9,12,19
16:18 immediately instructed 26:19 J 44:11,13,14,17
20:7 37:11 48:8 instructions job 5:21 7:11 44:24 45:6,8
52:3,8,8 58:25 38:12 11:25 12:15 45:25 46:4,14
implemented insufficient 31:1 18:4 19:22 47:1,6,10,17
37:21 39:19 24:12 28:2 46:19 47:4 50:21,25 51:9
54:19 29:9,15 30:17 27:7 54:14,25 55:13
imposes 8:10 48:15 50:14 53:6,12 58:15,19 59:5
39:9 imputed 18:18 intentional 7:13 jury 3:11 9:19 60:3,9,12
26:11 inappropriate 28:11,17 31:15 Justice 1:21 3:3 59:24
22:4,6 31:24 33:15 3:9 4:3,19 5:14 justified 17:19
11:24 17:21 21:25,25 46:24 47:2,14 8:25 9:13 10:1 58:15,21
22:3 48:22 51:7 10:7,17 11:4
incorrect 57:15 47:24 48:15 16:1,17,22 11:4,13 19:10
31:13 27:14 interest 8:3,7 20:15,24 21:14 KEVIN 1:16 2:3
increased 7:9 interpretation 22:8,18 23:1 2:13 3:7 56:2
incremental 6:6 investigate 44:5 25:4,5,21 12:9,12 16:13
57:20,23 law's 3:20 looking 34:5 16:9,18 21:16 36:11,21 37:3
39:8 lead 13:4 27:25 31:2 40:25 51:19 55:15 39:1 40:15
32:14,21 led 4:10 8:11 45:7 53:18 meaning 10:15 42:16,24 43:8
14:1 lose 36:7 meet 50:2 43:15,23 44:16
49:13 Ledbetter 1:3 lost 20:7 members 31:10 44:21 45:4
7:1,8 Ledbetter's 50:19 men 7:10 9:5 name 25:1
18:2 28:25 34:1 lower 8:2 14:21 20:9 21:17,21 natural 7:23
20:6,12 left 15:11 57:1 57:9 29:5,19 30:3,8 necessarily
21:4 legal 12:23 lowering 59:21 30:10 49:20,24 22:17 43:5,13
23:22 legally 31:1 40:6 merely 28:18 43:17 45:9
25:2 45:18 M 29:16,24 38:13 54:24
30:9 let's 21:1 49:21 M 1:3 merger 26:4 necessary 30:17
40:1 52:25 Machinists 31:2 merit 7:17 32:19
49:22 level 5:19 7:18 magistrate 8:18 merit-based negating 51:6
11:24 36:1 9:1 26:8 neutral 18:24
59:17 14:17 17:18 maintaining middle 45:19 35:14 50:3,6
42:17 21:22 54:21 making 20:11 minimum 19:21 never 8:12 17:10
lid 34:25 21:17,20 26:10 minutes 56:1 42:12
41:19 56:18 male 3:14 32:7 mistake 38:17 nil 16:11
46:18 LILLY 1:3 33:18 34:7,11 Monday 1:10 nine 31:10 40:3
50:13 limit 23:7 42:18 money 12:15 nondiscrimin...
limitations 5:3 males 16:24 14:14 17:13 46:23 54:4
42:14 49:18 53:19,20 32:15 months 39:25 8:21 10:11
50:10 54:9 56:11,12 management 40:3 21:19 26:22
limited 54:15,23 20:5 Morgan 37:4,6 58:24 60:8
19:9 litigate 15:22 married 32:24 move 5:18,20 47:18
little 16:10 matter 1:12 4:11 multiple 57:5 notion 36:17
19:14 54:14,21 58:3 43:4 45:12 Nager 1:18 2:6 number 16:14
longer 22:23,24 52:9 59:17 28:5,6,8 29:2 39:23 46:12
33:25 45:2 60:16 29:11,22 30:13 54:12
45:12 look 6:20 38:10 maximum 35:21 31:16,19 32:19
59:17 50:17 53:11 mean 5:16 6:9 33:13 34:18 O
24:4 26:5,22 42:1 43:25 perform 13:10 plan 45:1,4,5
33:19 34:10 46:17,20,22,24 9:8 51:3,6 46:5 53:5
20:22 part 26:23 38:16 48:7,10,13 period 5:4 10:25 27:17 36:19
35:13 38:22,23,23,25 49:7,9,19 18:6 28:14,20 40:17 41:22
46:13 39:1 51:11,15 54:1 28:23 29:1 42:7,8 43:16
56:11 particular 10:2 54:4,5,9,13,15 30:2,18,25 53:13,14 54:20
14:20 59:13,18,21,23 35:10 36:24 policy 20:9,10
40:16 paycheck 3:23 43:2 44:9 46:9 24:11 25:12,14
38:7 pattern 39:15,16 17:3 18:11 56:11,13 41:17,25 42:5
48:16 39:19 57:6 27:24 29:21 periodically 42:7,11 43:6
50:2 pay 3:21,24 4:10 37:15,25 56:21 17:9 45:9 48:19
5:16,19 6:5,10 28:22 30:10 permitted 58:2 50:24 56:22
37:6,19 6:23 7:2,3,3,8 55:4,14 persists 7:20 poor 51:3,5
38:4,15 7:24 8:9,15,16 paying 3:13 person 16:11 portion 37:4,18
8:17,20 9:1,10 17:25 21:18 29:8 33:5 37:20,22,24
45:7 9:20 10:11,19 30:7,10 33:17 36:18 48:18 position 17:7
28:6 46:2 13:13,20 14:9 56:9,13 petitioner 1:4,17 53:2 57:16
16:23,24,24 pay-maintaini... 6:23 7:7 19:15 possibility 54:22
57:21 18:6,12 19:11 pay-setting 53:25 56:3 20:20
21:12,22,23 pension 45:1 31:22 53:24,25 potential 17:5
32:17 25:12,18,18,22 20:11 24:4 57:4 potentially
25:23 26:9,11 25:19,23 33:7 place 27:12 58:11
21:9 34:5,10,22 11:23 16:3,4 26:25 30:24 16:21 19:8
17:19 19:16 44:18 30:15 55:10 referred 23:23
27:24 27:14 32:25,25 puts 17:17 range 19:21 56:6
34:12 43:13 p.m 60:15 32:17 47:4 reflecting 55:5
56:6 57:2 47:15 48:20,24 rate 22:12,13 regression 57:6
59:11 qualified 30:14 34:5 37:10 reinstate 9:10
process 13:23 26:17 27:19,21 57:13 rejected 23:15
10:5 promoted 12:15 36:10 37:22 reason 6:8 7:12 relevant 48:21
13:7 promotion 4:7 40:16 42:3,6 8:5,21,24 relief 54:22
18:11 4:13,14 5:5,6,8 42:13 43:9 11:22 12:9,14 rely 27:3
19:6,11 5:15,24 6:4 52:25 53:8,9 12:21 13:16 relying 30:24
22:19 11:25 26:18 55:19 56:10 14:19 19:19 remainder 28:3
34:22 48:23,25 57:23 22:5 30:21 remaining 56:1
26:15 49:1,2,5,10 quite 21:7 33:11 42:5,19,21,23 remand 38:10
30:9 55:7,12,12 55:15 47:18 49:3 38:12 53:5
42:1,7 promotions 4:23 quote 37:4 53:24 54:7 remanded 52:21
43:1,2,4 promptly 36:5 quotes 37:14 58:24,25 59:10 remedy 34:17
44:18 proof 19:2 22:20 60:8 remember
45:10,13 22:25 31:14 R reasonable 7:23 19:17 26:3
33:14 R 3:1 8:6 14:25 49:12
50:14 propose 11:15 race 4:2 24:5,6 reasons 5:24 remembers
57:17 proposing 41:6 25:24 31:15 12:20 42:1,2 24:15
proposition 13:5 59:14 REBUTTAL repeated 16:13
51:14 racially-related 35:17 37:4 44:8
41:24 proving 31:14 7:2,5,8 10:19 26:19 require 36:4
provision 14:8 10:24 15:7 recommended 44:5 57:3
purchased 11:7 46:8 47:11,14 record 17:9 16:7 36:3
21:7 purpose 36:2,8 50:1 55:9 recurring 3:21 46:16
12:10 purposeful 44:2 raised 35:20 25:16 resolve 53:9
24:20 16:17,22 21:14 59:1 set 41:7,9,10 size 47:19
49:17 23:1 25:4 28:4 salary 16:10 59:18 Skidmore 51:25
56:7 32:11 33:16 27:15 sex 3:15,17 4:2 skills 46:18
50:9 55:24 12:18 17:20 18:1 slim 16:4
2:7,11 Rubber 1:7 3:5 saying 4:3 16:6 22:20 25:24 solely 26:7
14:22 rule 3:23 4:4,5 33:9 37:14 28:25 34:1 Solicitor 1:20
46:3 5:1 6:14 8:1,10 38:16 40:10 50:15 51:4 42:8 51:18
17:22 13:14 14:6,20 49:16 59:13 sexual 32:22 58:6
58:1 29:21 34:4,18 25:22 35:8 shoot 40:13 somebody 4:12
34:19 35:7,8 37:25 44:12 show 10:1 14:22 4:15 5:23 17:4
46:18 41:7,8,10 49:9 53:18 55:21 23:5 27:1 sorry 25:1 52:14
54:3 56:21,23 Scalia 5:14 7:14 showed 9:3 sorts 4:5
rules 11:11 12:13 22:18 shown 9:21 53:4
13:23 Russell 1:16 2:3 51:17 53:15 40:9 55:1 39:14,20
29:18 2:13 3:6,7,9 57:12 side's 39:4 source 42:4
46:11 4:6 5:5,22 6:2 Scalia's 41:10 significant Souter 18:2,20
54:9 6:11 7:16 8:18 45:7 39:23 22:8 23:20
52:12 11:1,10,17 score 22:25 13:24 25:21 44:14,17
13:15,22 14:8 53:24 59:7 similarly 3:14 52:15,24 53:7
16:20 17:2,15 Secondly 41:4 38:1 58:5 special 54:1,3
41:9 19:23 20:14,17 36:8 44:22 57:8 13:13
21:6,24 22:15 see 5:14,19 7:5 simpler 52:25 specificity 4:22
12:3 24:2,21 25:9 27:22 38:11 25:11 27:13 spread 6:5
14:18 26:2,25 27:5,9 59:23 33:4 49:7 53:5 stale 8:7
27:5 37:8 51:12 semi-annual single 5:17 standard 52:1
39:2 56:1,2,4 57:15 15:6 sit 27:16 55:2
60:4 58:17,23 59:8 seniority 25:14 situated 3:14 6:1 standards 50:2
26:1 60:11 sense 5:12 12:7 37:16 38:1 stands 40:25
47:13 text 56:17 time 3:11 7:14 totally 10:11
43:20 18:16,17 19:20 18:10 23:25 25:14,20 28:3 15:24
31:13 47:2 55:21 35:5 36:14,15 3:22 12:25
support 6:12 they'd 15:3 43:1 45:10 transfer 6:5
27:19 suppose 13:25 30:24 39:7,14 50:7 53:13 31:17 44:10
35:9 14:2,4 15:2 39:15,21 40:2 54:14 55:20 treated 4:17
54:8 23:2 43:3 43:10 50:3 timeliness 56:24 30:3
57:11,22 Supposing 20:5 things 39:9 timely 11:2 treating 5:12
27:3,6 sure 17:10 21:12 8:8 9:11 10:10 48:25 49:3 33:14
30:14 55:15 10:21 11:17 53:22 treats 25:18,23
surely 30:8 12:6,8,16,18 Tire 1:6 3:4 tremendous
suspect 8:5 12:21 13:9,16 Title 3:18 4:1 14:17
48:17 suspicious 6:25 14:19 19:1 6:13 8:13,15 tries 30:20
sustain 22:24 22:5 23:10 8:19,24 9:12 trigger 37:6
27:12 33:5 25:5 26:2 27:6 13:4,8,14,21 triggers 32:9
17:18 T 41:5 43:8,9 31:24 32:15 21:24 23:1
44:7 T 2:1,1 47:12 48:6 33:13,17 34:19 60:2
take 5:1,10 19:9 54:19 55:10 37:15,17 43:25 try 40:16
24:18 50:4 52:5 55:4 thinks 21:2 48:9 51:5,15 35:12 37:21
taken 28:13,19 third 54:7 54:2,3 60:3 38:19,21
54:12 51:23 57:16 44:11 20:5,12 29:8 two 13:10 31:19
takes 40:3 41:5 thought 6:2 14:5 29:24 49:1,15 33:6,11,22
38:25 48:3 37:13 41:21 toll 40:5
33:1 test 29:2 thousands 27:22 tolling 34:21 ultimately 59:11
testified 19:25 three 35:7 38:23 35:7 39:22 unable 14:22
8:20,24 9:12 week's 3:13 4:1 16:5,5 19:24 48:10
14:9 17:8 we'll 3:3 28:5 36:17 40:4 46:9 54:5,17
22:10 26:15 31:24 16:24 24:13 50:2 1967 13:6
41:15 32:15 33:13,17 26:10 years 6:22 8:2 1972 26:7
34:19 35:1 we've 4:20 18:22 10:17,20,22,23 1995 19:18
48:9 51:5,15 white 13:6 26:6 15:5,8,9,18,22 2
38:13,20 10:6,14 18:11 win 16:9 55:1 29:17,18 33:6 17:1 18:24
36:6 26:15 42:20 woman 9:4 13:6 35:2,8,11,13 22:21 29:4,5,7
48:21 46:21 56:10 14:3 22:12 36:16 39:17 29:17,18 30:7
58:11 32:14 33:17 42:11 43:6 35:13 36:16
wage 23:17 56:9 women 13:6 46:9 47:15,25 49:13,14
45:18 7:22 21:3 26:7 30:7,10 49:20 54:12 55:23 27 1:10
55:22 won 14:12
want 12:14 5:13 7:18 32:7 05-1074 1:5 3 2:4 16:3 36:18
35:13 4
30:12
58:12
15:4 5
33:1,10 37:11 wrong 37:17
18:24 5 10:19 11:23
24:15 24:15
47:25 5.28 6:24
54:8 29:9 30:18
58:6 35:18 42:22,25 x 1:2,8 174 6:21 6
45:2 59:22 180 15:1 19:4
35:3
11:2 36:8
44:22
