IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
PHILIP MORRIS USA, :
Petitioner, :
v. : No. 05-1256
MAYOLA WILLIAMS. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 31, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United
States at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ANDREW L. FREY, ESQ., New York, N. Y.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
ROBERT S. PECK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ANDREW L. FREY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ROBERT S. PECK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ANDREW L. FREY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 49
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Philip Morris v. Williams.
Mr. Frey.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW L. FREY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FREY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court: This case is here following this
Court's remand to the Oregon courts to reconsider their
decision in light of State Farm, a task at which we
submit the Oregon courts completely failed. It presents
two independent but thematically interrelated issues,
both of which implicate what the Court said in State
Farm, which is that, and I quote, "courts must ensure
that the measure of punishment is both reasonable and
proportionate to the amount of harm to the plaintiff and
to the general damages recovered."
Now significantly, Respondent defends
neither -- oh, I should stop for a minute and describe
the issues. So the first issue is whether the Oregon
Supreme Court properly held that Philip Morris was
correctly denied an instruction which would have told
the jury that it was not to punish for harm to
nonparties. The Oregon Supreme Court held that that
instruction was legally incorrect, it was proper for the
jury to punish for harm to nonparties, and therefore the
instruction was correctly denied.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Frey, are you talking
about what is numbered, is it number 34?
MR. FREY: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's the --
MR. FREY: Yes. The key paragraph from
number 34 which is set forth at page 4 of our brief, as
well as numerous other places in the materials. It
says, the size of any punishment should bear reasonable
relationship to the harm caused to Jesse Williams by the
defendant's punishable misconduct. Although you may
consider the extent of harm suffered by others in
determining what that reasonable relationship is, you're
not to punish the defendant for the impact of its
alleged misconduct of other persons who may bring
lawsuits of their own, etc.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You don't think that
would confuse the jury if they are first told that they
may consider the extent of harm suffered by others, and
then the next instruction seems to say they can't?
MR. FREY: I don't. First of all, I don't
think that's what it says, and I don't think it would
confuse the jury, and I'm confident that with that
instruction, counsel could explain it. But let me stop
here, because I know this was something that Justice
Scalia expressed some uncertainty about in the State
Farm argument, and that the Oregon Supreme Court said
they didn't clearly understand.
To consider the conduct means to evaluate it
in connection with assessing the blameworthiness of the
conduct being punished.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't that the problem? If
the instruction had said that, you would have a very
different instruction, and I'm bothered by the
instruction too for just that reason. It says you may
consider, and if I were a juror parsing the instruction,
I would say, "why? You've just told me I'm not supposed
to punish them."
MR. FREY: Well, the second part of it is,
what punishment means is what would be done in a class
action, for instance, to impose punishment for all the
harm suffered by Oregon smokers.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. This is an argument
you're making to us, but I don't know how a juror
is supposed to figure this out.
MR. FREY: Well, let me say a couple of
things about that. First of all, the Oregon Supreme
Court did not rely on this aspect. It held that it was
proper to punish for harm to nonparties. Now this, in
our view, this instruction, and there's always a danger
when you add words to an instruction that you will add
something that a court will find was incorrect and
therefore deny the instruction, even though the essence
of it was correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where did the Oregon
Supreme Court say it was proper to punish for harm to
nonparties? Your brief quotes something to that effect,
but -- the sentence on page 18(a) of the appendix to
the petition. It says, what the Oregon court said is,
Philip Morris asserts that Campbell prohibits the State
acting through a civil jury from using punitive damages
to punish a defendant for harm to nonparties. The
Oregon Supreme Court on its own, I think, didn't put it
in terms of harming particular nonparties, but to
exposing Oregon residents to the risk of a deadly
disease.
MR. FREY: Well, I would refer the Court to
pages 20(a) to 21(a) of the appendix, where the court
discusses, comes to its conclusion on this point. And
it says, the instruction would have prohibited the jury from
punishing the defendant for the impact of its alleged
conduct on other persons even if those persons were
Oregonians who were harmed. But on 28(a) it says,
because the proposed jury did not accurately reflect
the law, this is not a statement about Philip Morris's
position, the trial court did not commit reversible
error when it refused to give it. So I think the court
was quite clear in saying -- let me complete my answer,
because I think considering it moves the needle along
the scale of allowable punishment for the harm to Jesse
Williams, but it does not abandon the principle of
proportionality to that harm, whereas punishing for it
is what you would do in a class action. You would
punish for all the harms to all the Oregonians. This is
a one-way class action in which Philip Morris was
exposed to global punishment by the jury without any of
the protections of a class action. So --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Let me -- let me -- let me
focus the problem that I have right now this way. If
I look at the Oregon Supreme Court opinion, and
particularly at the point that you mention in 20 and 21,
I have to say I, I read the opinion the way you read the
opinion. I read them the same, just what you claimed
they were saying. The difficulty that I have is because
I think the instruction that was proposed on behalf of
your client was not a clear instruction, I have great
difficulty in seeing how I could find that it was error
to refuse to give the instruction.
MR. FREY: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So my problem is, if I
think they really did have the wrong view of the law but
the issue was focused at the trial court by a request
for an instruction which I think was properly denied,
what do I do? Do I concentrate on what they said in the
opinion or do I concentrate on what I think was the
deficiency of the instruction?
MR. FREY: Well, I think what you do is
decide the Federal issue, which I think is whether they
were correct in the legal proposition that they
asserted.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But then they would
respond, when they made that, when they gave that
explanation in the Oregon Supreme Court, they were
responding to a claim of error which was focused and
raised at the trial level by the request for an
instruction, which strikes me as probably an unsound
instruction, an unsound request.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I guess we could
leave it up to them whether they want to disallow the
instruction for a different reason, but the fact is they
disallowed it for the reason that you say.
MR. FREY: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And we can say that is
error and remand it to them. That might not make you
very happy, but it would be up to them whether or not
--
MR. FREY: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: In effect, it would give
you another chance in Oregon.
MR. FREY: But I do want to question the
premise. First of all, the instruction says basically
what this Court said in BMW, which is where it drew
precisely that distinction.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It was a good thing we
weren't instructing a jury.
MR. FREY: Well, I don't think there is --
the concept may be abstract, the difference between
considering and punishing, but it's quite clear in this
Court's jurisprudence and I think it can be made quite
clear to the jury with the benefit of the proper
instruction, and I don't -- I don't have any --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Oh, I do too. I don't have
any trouble with the distinction.
MR. FREY: If we had this instruction, if we
had this instruction which I believe is correct, there
is nothing incorrect about this instruction. It is
correct that the jury may consider. We are not
challenging that the jury may consider the conduct and
may determine that the conduct --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it doesn't answer the
question, if the juror were to speak up. It doesn't
answer the question. Consider for what? How? Why am I
supposed to be considering it when you've just told me
not to punish?
MR. FREY: Well, I think the instruction
said --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Or not punish for other --
MR. FREY: I think the instruction says that
you are to consider it in connection with
determining the reprehensibility of the conduct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. If it had said that, I
would have no trouble with it. What it says is, you may
consider it in determining what the reasonable
relationship is between the harm caused to Jesse
Williams and the amount of punitive damages assessed. I
don't see how injury to others can have any bearing upon
whether the punitive damages bear a reasonable
relationship to Jesse Williams' harm. That's my problem
with it.
MR. FREY: Well, they do, because conduct
that is more blameworthy, in terms of determining, as
this Court has said in all its cases, and I know you
don't agree with the whole inquiry --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't.
MR. FREY: But as this Court has made quite
clear, the reprehensibility of the conduct is an
important factor in determining where along the scale of
reasonable relationships in a particular case you might,
the relationship might be reasonable. So, more conduct
that is calculated to harm large numbers of people can
be found more blameworthy as to warrant a higher
proportion, a higher relationship between the punitive
and compensatory damages.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And when you do
that, counsel, aren't you punishing the defendant for
the harm to others? You're going to award a higher
multiple with respect to the damages --
MR. FREY: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- based on the
conduct to others. Why wouldn't a normal juror think --
MR. FREY: I think you are --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Excuse me. Why
wouldn't a normal jury view that as punishing the
defendant for the harm to others?
MR. FREY: Well, I think that the semantical
quibbling is not something that the jury would have
difficulty with, in my opinion. But let me try to
explain the difference this way. If you're considering
the conduct in relation in determining what is the proper
punishment for the harm to Jesse Williams, you should come
up with a number that can be properly replicated in case
after case if other juries arrived at the same conclusion
about the conduct. If you are punishing for the
conduct, you should come up with a number that precludes
further punishment for the same, punishing for the harm,
further punishment for the same harm, for the same
causes of action for punitive damages that various
Oregonians had. So there's a fundamental difference in
that respect between considering and punishing for it,
and the Court has said repeatedly, and I don't think
we can contest this, that the character of the conduct
can be considered in determining the proper level or
allowable level of punitive damages, that included the
character of the conduct is the intended scope of the
harm, if it's an isolated incident, if it's a consistent
pattern of misconduct.
So, I don't think we could properly have told
the jury that they may not consider the conduct without
getting ourselves in serious trouble. So -- and I
don't, I don't think, and the difference is potentially
enormous. If you think about a jury that was deciding a
punitive damages class action and a jury that was told
that they had to punish for the harm to the particular
plaintiff in the, in the particular case, it's, it's
obvious that the results would be vastly different in
those cases. And the problem we were worried about was
that the jury would think of itself as the punishment
agency to impose statewide punishment for the harms to
all Oregon smokers who were deceived by Philip Morris --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But, Mr. Frey, let me
ask you a question. Suppose this was a criminal case
and the defendant was being punished for crime A and the
judge in working out the sentence realizes he also
committed crimes B, C, D, and E. He could take those
into account in determining the extent of the sentence
given for crime A. Why isn't that similar?
MR. FREY: It is similar, but what he can't
do is punish for crimes B, C, D, and E. Suppose we had
a mail fraud prosecution --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And if there was a second
-- the same defendant got convicted again for crime X.
At that sentencing the judge could again take into
account the harm to defendants B, C, and D.
MR. FREY: That's true. That's certainly
true. That's why our point is that it's one thing to
produce a punishment that can properly be replicated in
case after case without producing an excessive total
punishment. It's another thing to punish in case after
case for the same harms.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's not the same harm
if it's a different defendant or a different plaintiff
in the second case. You're punishing him for the harm
to be this time, and you can -- just as in a criminal
case, why can't you in both cases take into account
that, the harm to the class, to the public at large?
MR. FREY: If this was a mail fraud
prosecution for defrauding Jesse Williams into buying
cigarettes and the punishment was five years for that,
the judge could consider in setting the punishment
between zero and five the fact that this was part of a
scheme that was intended to or may have deceived large
numbers of other people in setting the punishment
between zero and five. What the judge cannot do and
what we were worried the jury would do here and what we
think the size of its verdict may suggest it actually
did here is to think that they could punish it that time
not just 5 years, but 10 or 15 or 20 for all of the
other punishments, for all the other wrongs that they
find to have been done.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In that respect, how does
the -- there may not be a definitive authority by this.
Oregon says that if a corporation commits
manslaughter it's required to pay up to twice the amount
the corporation gained by committing the offense --
MR. FREY: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- is my understanding.
Suppose a corporation in a hypothetical case commits
five manslaughters. Would they be liable -- and gained
for $1 million. Would they be liable for twice a million
dollars in every manslaughter case?
MR. FREY: No. But I think the disgorgement
argument that has been made by the other side suffers
from exactly the same problem as the global punishment
problem. That is, you can't -- if you disgorged in
every case all the profits that were earned from selling
cigarettes to Oregonians and to Oregonians became who
sick --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Mr. Frey, we don't
know what Oregon law is on that point. They do
have a law that the Oregon court thought meant that they
must adjust in the next case. And how would you deal --
would it be different if Oregon, as many States, said
part of that punitive award goes not to the plaintiff,
but to some State fund?
MR. FREY: I don't, I don't think that --
our complaint is not that the plaintiff is getting the
money. Our complaint is with how much we're being
punished and what the procedural regime is that has led
to punishing us.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if the law in Oregon
were, plaintiff number two, you don't get punitive
damages or you can get only the difference between what
the jury awarded you and what Philip Morris has already
paid out in punitive damages?
MR. FREY: Well, first of all, that's not
the law in Oregon.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We don't know what it is.
We haven't had the second case.
MR. FREY: Well, we have no -- well, the
Oregon Supreme Court did not rely on this, on this
statute, for purposes of dealing with the harm to
others, harm to nonparties problem. The statute does
not require giving credit, only consideration. Even if
it, even if it did, it operates as a one-way ratchet.
That is, you keep making awards until you've reached the
maximum that would be allowable for all the conduct even
though juries, properly instructed, might have awarded
substantially less and even though many juries might
exonerate the defendant totally, as many juries have in
tobacco cases. So the Oregon regime is, is a formula
for having what amounts to excessive punishment or at
least unfair punishment.
And finally, the, the 30.925, which was
referred to by the court of appeals, requires submitting
this evidence to the jury and, as the trial court said
in this case at page 195a of the joint appendix, there
is no telling whether submitting the prior awards to the
jury would produce higher or lower awards in this case.
So I think it's an entirely illusory protection to rely
on that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I ask you -- are you
finished?
MR. FREY: Yes. I was going to say that
because our concern is structural with the design of the
Oregon system as it's been approved by the Oregon
Supreme Court, I don't think this inadequate remedy can
save that system.
JUSTICE BREYER: I wanted to know what you
think about a suggestion that I got from something that
Justice Scalia said. I don't know whether he was making
it or not, but I'll make the suggestion and see what you
think. Suppose that this case -- suppose we were to
say, there are many issues in this case, some of them
very difficult, but one thing we're certain about: You
cannot in a trial consistent with the due process clause
in a trial of plaintiff versus defendant take money from
the defendant and give it to the plaintiff for the
purpose of punishing the Defendant for something he did
to a different person who wasn't there. Now -- so he
couldn't defend against him. That person didn't present
a claim. So we are certain of that.
Now, we're not certain whether that's what
happened here. It may have done. There is certainly a
lot of language to suggest it, and there is some
language the other way. So we remand it to the court
with that instruction that they cannot permit this to
have happened if it happened. Whether it happened and
what happened is a matter of Oregon law in large part
and things about instructions, etc. Now, what's your
view of that kind of disposition?
MR. FREY: Well, I think the first part of
your premise is clearly correct and totally consistent
with the position we are taking. Whether it happened
here or not is an interesting question. It is in the
nature of a limiting instruction, which was basically
what this was. You can use the evidence for one
purpose, legitimate purpose, but don't use it for an
illegitimate purpose. But we can't tell ordinarily,
because jury deliberations are secret and we can't probe
what they have decided, we can't probe whether they have
imposed global punishment or not.
But we anticipate the problem. We proposed
an instruction which would as best we could at the time
address the problem. Maybe it could be edited up to be
a little sharper. But I think it contains the essential
point that we're driving at here today.
JUSTICE BREYER: Maybe, but it's possible
the Oregon court would say: Well, no instructions are
perfect, but -- and no set of jury instructions is
perfect. But if we look at the jury instructions
without the suggested one that was rejected and then we
look at the suggested one, we find the suggested one had
many things wrong with it, not just, you know, problems,
confusion, et cetera. We find the instructions weren't
perfect but, given Oregon evidentiary law, we think the
trial judge made reasonable decisions, therefore okay.
MR. FREY: You're raising a question whether
that would be an adequate --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know. That's what
worrying me, what's worrying me about this is I see as
we try to determine what this instruction said, whether
it was good enough, whether the instructions without it
are good enough, that we're going to be in a kind of bog
of mixtures of constitutional law, unclear Oregon State
law, not certain exactly what was meant by whom in the
context of the trial, et cetera.
MR. FREY: Well, I think this is a pretty
fundamental principle. I believe the instruction fairly
captured it. I don't think there would be an adequate
and independent State ground for refusing the
instruction. Keep in mind that in State Farm the Court
said the defendant upon request would have been entitled
to an instruction on the subject of extraterritorial
punishment. Now, this is conceptually not really
different from extraterritorial punishment. We wouldn't
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Frey, I suppose
your theory here depends on the nature of the underlying
tort, I suppose, in that there are, you argue, defenses
that might be available with respect to other, other
individuals who are harmed.
MR. FREY: Certainly.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So this argument
wouldn't apply in a case if the underlying tort weren't
susceptible to those sorts of defenses.
MR. FREY: It would still apply because
different factfinders, different juries, might reach
different conclusions on the same evidence, assuming
that a summary judgment for the plaintiff is not proper.
What you're doing is preempting, you're allowing a
potentially aberrational verdict, which there could be
in many cases, to preempt the work of other juries. The
whole essence of the idea that we were trying to convey
here and the legal principle that we are arguing today
is to confine the jury to its proper domain and its
domain is the case before it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The jury can't really find
that other people were harmed. The jury doesn't have
evidence before it except as to this person. The most
the jury can find, it seems to me, is that the, the
activity engaged in bore a very serious risk of harming
other people. I think a jury could find that. And
therefore, the activity is more heinous and should be
punished more severely. But I -- you don't --
MR. FREY: Accepting the premise, accepting
the premise, we don't disagree with your conclusion.
That is, if the jury could find that they could punish
this more severely. What they cannot do is punish it
globally.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but I don't think I'm
quibbling, but you seem to be conceding that this jury
can decide that other people have been harmed and take
into account the harm that it found other people
suffered in deciding the penalty. And I don't think
this jury has any basis for finding that other people
were harmed. It could say there was a serious risk of
it.
MR. FREY: It can certainly consider the
scope of the intended scheme. The fact that it didn't
have evidence didn't stop the Oregon Court of Appeals
from finding and the Oregon Supreme Court from endorsing
the finding that many Oregonians were deceived, even
though --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't there a distinction
between actual harm to others and the risk of harm?
Supposing a defendant fired a machine gun into a crowd
of people.
MR. FREY: Right.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And he killed one, at
least one. And that one sued and said: I want extra
punitive damages because all these other people were
subjected to the same risk. Wouldn't that be a proper
consideration?
MR. FREY: I think it is. I think in TXO
the Court --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would it be a proper
consideration even if a second person brought the same
action?
MR. FREY: Well, if there were more, if
there were other people who had causes of action, then
I think there is a problem. In your hypothesis if only
one person is injured --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you're not asking to
recover for the actual harm to the others. You're
saying there was a general risk of harm to many, many
people, which is similar to what we have here. We don't
know whether they're harmed or not, but that can be
taken into account in fixing the ultimate verdict.
MR. FREY: Well, that's what the Court said
in BMW in effect, that the jury could consider even out
of State conduct insofar as it revealed something about
the blameworthiness of the defendant's conduct, the
defendant's state of mind, the defendant's intentions.
We're not saying that these things can't be considered
for that purpose. What we are saying is that other
people can bring their own lawsuits and punishment in
those lawsuits -- If $79.5 million is right for Jesse
Williams --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't the time to
determine what to do with the second lawsuit is when the
second lawsuit is brought?
MR. FREY: No, because the problem is a
problem with the design. If you punish in the beginning
-- if you have A, B, C, and D who are potentially
injured and you punish in A's case for the harm to B, C,
and D and then the defendant --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But can't I punish for the
risk of harm to B, C, and D?
MR. FREY: Well, if you're punishing for the
risk of harm then the same punishment would be
appropriate in B's case and C's case and D's case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But part of this award,
at least according to the trial -- there's a footnote
referring to an Oregon statute that provides for the
distribution of punitive damages between prevailing
parties and the State of Oregon. Is -- was this award
shared?
MR. FREY: Well, it hasn't been paid yet.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But would it be?
MR. FREY: I think it would be subject to
that statute. Now, there's a question whether under the
master settlement agreement it would have to be paid
back to the companies. But that's a separate question
that's not before the Court. But our position --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if the State law
provides that part of the recovery goes to the State,
then at least as to the part that goes to the State you
can say, well the State has recovered and you can't --
MR. FREY: But we have no protection for
that. We have no protection. First of all, this
verdict --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then you can object
in the next case if you're subjected to --
MR. FREY: And if we win the next case and
we win the case after that and we win the case after
that, when do we get credit?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, I mean when you lose
the case on the merits and there's a determination of
damages, Oregon says, we adjust for having a prior
award. We don't know what that adjustment will be.
MR. FREY: Right, but the regime is flawed
in its structure because it's a ratchet to get up to the
highest possible level even though juries who understood
the underlying constitutional principle might award
less.
So I'd like to save, if I may, the balance
of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Frey.
Mr. Peck.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT S. PECK,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. PECK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I'll start with the proposed
instruction because that is where Philip Morris began
and the Oregon courts properly treated that as an
enigma. It told the jury, it would have told the jury,
both that they could consider the extent of harm and not
consider the extent of harm with respect to a reasonable
relationship. That's the disparity guide post.
Clearly, that is not what this Court has said. And
what, it's not what the Oregon Supreme Court did. It's
also significant if you look at the actual proposed
instruction, which is, starts on page 240, 279(a) of the
joint appendix, the, the proposed instruction says you
may consider whether the imposition of punitive damages
is necessary to punish and deter similar misconduct by
defendant and others in the future. Now, that's part of
a calculation that considers harm to others in the
future as a potential harm. So that is one of the
things that the Oregon Supreme Court discussed when it
said that this does not reflect our law.
It's also significant that they said that
you could consider financial condition and you cannot
consider financial condition which is part of the Oregon
statute. Now Philip Morris in their reply brief says
that we have conflated an alternative instruction with
one that they offered but if you look at page 280(a) --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're losing me,
counsel. What, what specifically is wrong with the
instruction proposed here?
MR. PECK: This instruction --
JUSTICE SCALIA: As briefly as possible,
one, two, three.
MR. PECK: This instruction basically
advises the jury to do precisely what Philip Morris
argues before this Court it cannot do and that is to
take into account the harm suffered by others in
determining this disparity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- you object to in
this instruction. I mean, and I thought our cases
clearly established that you can consider the harm to
others in assessing the reprehensible nature of the
conduct. You don't disagree with that?
MR. PECK: We don't disagree with that and
that's precisely what the Oregon Supreme Court did.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: On the other hand,
you cannot -- on the other hand you cannot punish the
defendant for those harms particularly in a case where
the defendant might have defenses available with respect
to those others. So I understood what the instruction
sought to do is simply try to draw, it's a fine line but
the reason it's a fine line is because of our prior
cases, and it tried to draw that distinction between
assessing reprehensibility and punishing for harm to
others.
MR. PECK: We submit that it was
unsuccessful in conveying properly what this Court has
held and that is sufficient grounds for the Oregon
Supreme Court to uphold the trial court's decision.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would it have been a proper
instruction if the second sentence had read, although
you may consider the extent of harm suffered by others in
determining what the -- what that reasonable
relationship is, although you may consider the extent of
harm suffered by others in determining how heinous the
crime, the action of the defendant was, and hence --
what, what that reasonable relationship is? If you had
just added in that additional thought.
MR. PECK: Justice Scalia, if that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me that's all
that's left out of it. Now does leaving that out of it
make it erroneous?
MR. PECK: Leaving that out made it
erroneous because it said, not with respect to
reprehensibility analysis but with respect to reasonable
relationship. That was erroneous.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes but reprehensibility
analysis is part of the reasonable relationship. The
more reprehensible it is the higher the ratio can be,
according to our cases as I understand it.
MR. PECK: Let me take a step back because I
think there is a confusion here over also the word
punishment. Punitive damages do not punish for harm,
they punish misconduct. And this is an important
distinction because harm is a compensatory concept. You
compensate others for harm and of course you cannot
compensate others for harm in the course of this case.
But you can consider the potential risks, the potential
harm and the future harm if this course of misconduct is
not deterred.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying this
instruction was too favorable to you --
MR. PECK: No, I'm saying --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- because it allowed them
to consider harm.
MR. PECK: --this instruction -- -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you don't think they
should have been allowed to consider harm, correct?
MR. PECK: This instruction as the Oregon
Supreme Court said, you know, doesn't provide the
clarity that Philip Morris hoped to provide to the jury.
And it says and they can't see how this summarizes
Philip Morris' interpretation of Campbell. That's in
footnote 3 of the court's opinion.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why, why -- why though?
I'm having the same problem. As I read the sentence
that we have just been quoted it seems to me
at first blush that it's completely right. You may
consider the harm, the extent of harm suffered by others
in determining what the reasonable relationship is. Now
you have to be sophisticated in this. Don't ask me how
the jury is, but assuming that they are, that means that
the more severely awful the conduct, the higher the
ratio between the damage award and the injury suffered
by this victim in court. And if it's really bad, you're
going to maybe have a hundred times this compensation
instead of only ten times or five times.
So -- we take it into account, the extent of
the harm that could be suffered, in deciding what that
ratio should be. That means it goes to the evilness of
the conduct. But you are not to punish the defendant
for the impact of its alleged misconduct on other
persons who aren't here in court. In other words, what
you aren't to do is to look at good old Mrs. Smith who
has really suffered terribly, she happens not to be in
court, think about her suffering, which is real and
serious, and then say I'm going to punish this defendant
because of what he did to her. Which would be a natural
human reaction, and perhaps admirable, but regardless,
the law is that that's what you're not supposed to do.
So reading it as I just read it naturally,
it seems to describe what our cases have said is the
law. Why isn't that right? I'm looking for a real
answer to the question. I'm posing it in a hostile way
and hope I'll get an answer.
[Laughter.]
MR. PECK: Justice Breyer, if the
instruction had been given the way you have just stated
it we would have --
JUSTICE BREYER: I --
MR. PECK: -- had no problems. But it's not
how it reads.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. PECK: And it's not what it does. It
starts out saying that reasonable relationship is about
the harm to Jesse Williams and then it says you may
consider the harm suffered by others in determining that
reasonable relationship. Well, how does harm to others
help you figure out what the relationship to Jesse
Williams is? It doesn't compute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, because the
instructions indicate and juries often do this that
punitive damages are certain multiple of the
compensatory damages, and therefore that's what they are
saying. In determining what that multiple should be you
consider whether they have harmed others. And this
instruction would make all the difference to the world
in terms of what lawyers are going to be arguing about.
If you're allowed to punish for harm to others, you say,
well, there is however many, a thousand other people in
the plaintiff's position, so a thousand times would be
perfectly reasonable but you wouldn't say that the
conduct is a thousand times more reprehensible. There
is a more, there is a more natural limit on the multiple
when you get this kind of instruction.
MR. PECK: But, but juries don't look at
punitive damages in terms of a multiple. They are not
asked to multiply anything and they shouldn't be. They
are looking at the misconduct. They are looking at how
you deter others from similar misconduct. They are
looking at profitability here which is a statutory
requirement to them.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, it seems to me the
point you're making is not the basis on which the
Supreme Court of Oregon said the instruction was
properly disallowed. The Supreme Court of Oregon said
it was properly disallowed because you can take into
account directly the harm to other people, isn't that
the case?
MR. PECK: That is not the case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Why not?
MR. PECK: As Justice Ginsburg pointed out
earlier, the citations that they have used in their
brief are to the characterization of Philip Morris'
argument. But if you look at 30(a) in the petition --
and that second paragraph there starts out with "using
harm to others as part of the ratio may have been correct
under the plurality opinion in TXO" --and then you jump
down to, "however, it no longer appears to be
permissible if it ever was."
JUSTICE ALITO: And what about footnote 3, on
page 18(a)? On the last sentence says, if the jury cannot
punish for the conduct which is harming others, then it is
difficult to see why it may consider it at all.
MR. PECK: And that's because of the nature
of this conduct. This is not conduct that was directed
at Jesse Williams and he was the sole recipient of what
Philip Morris did here. This was a massive market
directed fraud driven by their rational and deliberate
decisions at the highest levels of the company to
deceive customers and knowingly endanger their health.
They knew that this would have a special impact on those
who are highly addicted, as Jesse Williams was. And so
this is the misconduct that Oregon is seeking to deter.
And how is a State, given the considerable flexibility
that this Court has recognized, going to deter that kind
of misconduct if instead society's interest has to be
fractionalized on an individual case-by-case basis
knowing that the majority of those cases will never take
place and in fact in Oregon will not?
JUSTICE BREYER: Because you read it's about
harm. You say look here is the person doing something
absolutely awful, I mean really awful. And look at how
awful it is. It's the kind of thing that would have
hurt X number of people badly, maybe kill them.
MR. PECK: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now I think we all agree
that that's an appropriate thing to say. And as long as
you can say that why can't you create serious damages
for that type of conduct?
MR. PECK: Well, that is precisely what we
believe the Oregon Supreme Court did here. When it
talked about how highly reprehensible this was,
extraordinary by any measure, it said those concerns
override ratio by which they meant single digit ratios.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What do you say, I mean
Justice Alito asked you a question about the footnote.
And I, in all candor I think you told us more about the,
your case than about the footnote, but let me ask you
basically the same question about what the Oregon
Supreme Court meant in the passage that runs from the
bottom of 20(a) up to 21. It says "Philip Morris's
proposed jury instructions would have prohibited the
jury from punishing the defendant for the impact of its
alleged misconduct on other persons even if those other
persons were Oregonians who were harmed by the same
conduct that had harmed Williams, and in the same way.
As we noted that is not correct as an independent matter
of Oregon law," and so on.
That is not a totally unambiguous statement.
I will concede that, but isn't the most obvious
reasoning, reading of that a reading that says you can
punish for harm to others, so long as those others are
Oregonians and not people in other States?
MR. PECK: I believe, Justice Souter that
what the court was doing there which is somewhat similar
to the analysis below in the Oregon Court of Appeals,
was to talk about the prospective future victims of this
fraud, that if it were not deterred which is a
consideration that the Oregon statute makes clear, if it
was not deterred then this kind of consideration for the
same acts having the same effect on others then doesn't
allow you to make sure that on that scale that this is
at the high end of what we are --
Justice SOUTER: That's a, that's a, I will
assume that's a legitimate reading in your favor. But
the answer, I mean, I think the response has to be after
listening to you, I don't know. I don't know whether
that's what they really had in mind here. And if, if I
really can't figure out what they had in mind, and if I
go back to the footnote that Justice Alito mentioned
before, isn't perhaps the better, the better course to
send this back to them and say, "We don't know what you
mean. Were you saying you can punish for these others
as distinct from considering risk to others for, on
reprehensibility?" And let them tell us clearly. Isn't
that the better course?
MR. PECK: Well, you know, perhaps that's
one way to determine what the court meant. But I would
suggest --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One way to look at
what it meant is what you argued below, I'm looking at
the joint appendix page 199(a), the plaintiff's counsel
in Oregon to the jury: "How many people do you see
outside driving home smoking cigarettes?" Now, that
type of argument is perfectly appropriate to assess
reprehensibility. On the other hand, with the
instruction that was offered the defense counsel could
have warned the jury keep in mind you can't punish for
those other people. We only have one plaintiff before
us and we are assessing the reprehensibility with
respect to that plaintiff. But without the instruction
you're allowed to argue how many people do you see in
Oregon smoking cigarettes?
MR. PECK: Let me suggest that both the
Oregon Supreme Court and the instructions that were
actually given to the jury helped answer this by looking
at the statutory criteria. Oregon has taken
extraordinary steps since this Court's decision in Oberg
to enact a statute that guides the courts on the, guides
the juries and the courts in the assessment of punitive
damages.
You know, first there is a threshold.
Before you can even plead punitive damages you must meet
that threshold and you must demonstrate to the court by
admissible evidence that there was a reckless and
outrageous indifference to a highly unreasonable risk of
harm, that they've acted with a conscious indifference
to the health and safety and welfare of others. Now,
this is part of what infuses it with public purpose.
Then --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I just ask you what
is the division? How much of this --
MR. PECK: 60 percent of an award by statute
goes to a crime victims fund of the State of Oregon and
as soon as the judgment is rendered then the State
becomes a judgment creditor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That has no
relevance to the question of the extent to which the
defendant is being punished, does it?
MR. PECK: No, but the statutory criteria
which requires that the jury find by clear and
convincing evidence the following factors, which was
given to this jury in the fashion that I'm about to tell
you, constrains this award and I think properly makes it
reasonable.
First, you have to consider whether there is
a likelihood that serious harm would arise from the
defendant's misconduct. Second, the degree of the
defendant's awareness of that likelihood. Three,
profitability in the State of Oregon. Four, duration of
the misconduct and concealment of it. Five, the
attitude and the conduct of the defendant upon discovery
of the misconduct. And then finally, financial
condition of the defendant, which cuts both ways. It
protects a defendant from being bankrupted by punitive
damages while at the same time assures that punitive
damages are enough to have that deterrent effect.
Now even after that, the defendant could opt
to have the jury address whether they had been
previously punished for this misconduct or choose not
to, which you would expect most defendants to choose,
and instead post verdict, present that to the trial
judge.
JUSTICE BREYER: The trouble with the more
basic question, I don't know if you can answer it, but
it is a problem, that when I -- most States have factors
like that, or many do. Alabama did. You know, not
quite as good as that, and we saw the patent fraud, you
know. And there are other cases that would bring up
products liability. And it's pretty hard to think of a
products liability case where the jury found negligence,
where they might not also find these factors. Because
in a typical case, you'll get competing memos within the
company. Somebody will have been hurt and likely
seriously, and when you start thinking about the victim
in front of you, it all looks pretty bad, and it often
is, at least in this instance. And now you read these
five factors, and the difficulty for me has always been,
well, you read the jury factors like that and they can
do almost anything. And it's that, it's that fact that
anything goes that I found disturbing.
MR. PECK: But this last factor that I was
about to get to, which I think provides a constraint
that's unlike the ones that you've seen in other cases,
and that is the total deterrent effect of other
punishment imposed in any remedial measures the
defendant has taken. Now this can be presented first to
the trial judge, saying okay, we have this huge award,
but, you know, we have been fined by the government, we
have had punitive damages assessed against us in other
cases, and as a result we have taken the following
measures which assure that we will not engage in this
kind of misconduct again, and as a result also, this
award should be cut.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you say this after the
fact? The jury doesn't hear this?
MR. PECK: The jury does not. You have the
option of presenting it to the jury but you do not have
to present it to the jury. You can present it first to
the trial judge and you can also present it at the
appellate level.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems very odd that a
major argument for constraint is something that the jury
can't hear. It just goes to show, really, the
irrational nature of the exercise.
MR. PECK: I would suggest it's not
irrational because what you do is, you've given the
defendant the option as a strategic matter either to
present it to the jury or if they think that will
guarantee an award of punitive damages against them,
they can withhold it and present it only to the trial
judge. This is a protection to the defendant rather
than, you know, an oddity, I think.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question?
Assuming there's a distinction, and the instruction
does, between taking into account the extent of harm to
others on the one hand and punishing for the extent of
harm on the other. As I understand what you recited
about the five parts of the instructions, none of them
really authorized punishment for harm to others.
MR. PECK: That is correct, and --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And is it also true that
the part the Chief Justice quoted from 199(a), it seems
to me that could be an argument that you should take
into account the extent of harm to others, but it does
not seem to me to be an argument that you can punish on.
And the question I want to ask, are there other parts
of the closing argument in which plaintiff's counsel
argued that you should take into account, that you
should punish for harm to others?
MR. PECK: There is not. The only argument
that was made in closing was that you can think about
the others, which was clearly intended to go towards
that reprehensibility analysis. You know, certainly in
the criminal law context, an attempted crime is punished
as badly as an actual crime when all the elements that
are required to, to accomplish that crime have occurred.
And in the context of this very unusual long in duration
misconduct, what you had to do was you had to look at
that broad attempt to effect Oregon --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think juries can,
Oregon juries or juries anywhere can understand what
they are told if they are told, you can take into
account conduct directed at other people for the purpose
of assessing how reprehensible the conduct is, but you
can't punish for the harm that is caused other people?
MR. PECK: I believe they can. This -- this
jury did a very good job. First of all, if they --
JUSTICE ALITO: They can understand that
distinction and --
MR. PECK: I believe they can.
JUSTICE ALITO: And you would have them
apply that principle in this case?
MR. PECK: They understood contributory or
comparative negligence, and gave no award on the basis
of negligence. They made a distinction in, in the fraud
claim by only awarding a little bit more than $21,000,
even though the request was much higher.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if they can
understand that distinction, why wasn't the defense
counsel entitled to argue to the jury just as you
argued, you can consider the harm to others in assessing
reprehensibility, why couldn't the defense counsel say,
but, you can't punish for the harm to others, if as you
answered to Justice Alito, a jury can understand that
distinction?
MR. PECK: I believe the defense counsel
would have been entitled to make such an argument. I
don't think there would have been any need for
corrective instruction. But what they proposed, which
was conflicting in two different respects, just did not
meet the muster.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think it
would have been, putting aside what they proposed, if
they had proposed an instruction that said, you may
consider the harm to others in assessing how
reprehensible the conduct is but you may not punish
Philip Morris for the harm to others, you would have had
no objection to that instruction?
MR. PECK: I would have had no objection.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So your only objection is
that they left out the reason why it is relevant to
determining what the ratio should be? They just didn't
say you can consider it in connection with
reprehensibility. Why is that crucial?
MR. PECK: I think it was critical and of
course, you know, Oregon is entitled to run its court
system as it has for more than 30 years.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But why was it critical?
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why was it critical?
MR. PECK: Why was it corrected?
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yeah. Justice Scalia said,
you know, they left out this one little bit. Why was
that critical? What's the answer.
MR. PECK: Well, the answer is because,
again, it was not directed for the specific purpose for
which harm to others may be considered, and that's in
the reprehensibility analysis. There is no disagreement
between the parties on that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You're saying, I think
you're saying the jury couldn't have figured that out
without somebody telling them?
MR. PECK: But what this instruction told
him --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't that what you're
saying?
MR. PECK: No, I'm not saying that. What
the instruction told them is to consider it with respect
to the reasonable relationship. That means the ratio.
That means proportionality. And that would suggest, as
Justice Stevens suggested, that they might multiply it
by how many people are out there, because I think this
instruction was an enigma and was confusing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Too favorable to you. Too
favorable to you again, right?
(Laughter.)
MR. PECK: You know, perhaps so. But you
know, the fact of the matter is that, you know, we did
not advocate that the jury punish for harm to others.
We do not believe the Oregon court upheld this judgment
for that reason.
If I can go on to the, some of the other
points that are made by Philip Morris. They talk about
this Court's decision in State Farm as if it were
nothing more than a ratio, so they reduce the decision
to ratio. They transform the most important indicium,
reprehensibility, into a subsidiary role in the ratio
analysis.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can I make, just to
get the ground rules here, you're not asking us to
reconsider either State Farm, BMW, any of our punitive
damages precedents?
MR. PECK: No, we are not asking you to do
that. We think that this, this judgment is valid under
those precedents. They denigrate the State's interest
which this Court has said is the first consideration,
the State's interest in deterrence to this
fractionalized sort of passenger on each individual
lawsuit, even though the State's interest here when we
get to the punitive damages phase, it's infused with
public purpose, that State interest is in deterring
misconduct, not in figuring out how many dollars might
be additionally awarded to the plaintiff or even into
its crime victims fund. It removes the State's
flexibility and ability to experiment with different
ways to address the concerns that this Court has stated
with respect to punitive damages.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It depends when you say
something about duplicative recoveries, because that
seems to be a major concern.
MR. PECK: This total deterrent effect
requirement is the key here, that this is a part of a
State statute that says that to the extent that there
had been prior punitive damage awards that have operated
to affect that deterrence that the State is interested
in, to the effect that there have been other
punishments, to the effect that there had been remedial
measures taken to prevent such misconduct again in the
future, then the judge is to reduce this award. The
Oregon Supreme Court has said that this fully addresses
the concern with multiple awards, duplicative awards,
and that authoritative construction by that court
should, should weigh heavily with this Court. But at
the same time, the fact of the matter is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But what if -- your friend
says, what if we never get assessed for any other case?
Where do we make up this money?
MR. PECK: Well, you know --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose they win every
other case in Oregon.
MR. PECK: Well, as a practical matter, they
have been, they have lost both, the only two cases that
have gone to a trial in Oregon. And as a practical
matter, the statute of ultimate repose practically
prevents any future Oregon plaintiff from bringing such
a lawsuit. They would have to show that they contracted
cancer or a disease from smoking within the repose
period, which is eight years, if one were filed
tomorrow, eight years ago, and that indeed that the
fraud was a substantial factor in contracting that
disease. That is what we were put to prove in this
case, the relevant date being 1988.
Now imagine, that window is rapidly closing
on eight years, because it was after this case that
Philip Morris decided that they were no longer going to
deny that smoking causes cancer and they were no longer
going to deny that nicotine was addictive. So that
window is rapidly closing, and it's highly unlikely that
a smoker can point to eight years ago as the point at
which their cancer basically became active. So as a
practical matter, there is going to be no awards, future
awards in Oregon. And as a legal matter, doctrinal
matter, I believe that Oregon has taken the step
necessary to prevent multiple awards.
You know, six States do not permit punitive
damages in most instances. Another 20 or so cap
punitive damages. And then 12, of which Oregon is one,
has chosen a method like this to address that
duplicative award approach. I think that kind of
experimentation which is done in good faith, which has
been authoritatively construed by the courts to address
this question, is sufficient to address any concerns
with due process.
But let's, let's remember also, that while
the Constitution contains many places where numbers are
important, the President must be 35 years of age, it has
implied in other places numbers, like in one person, one
vote. But the due process clause in its spaciousness
and majesty doesn't talk about numbers, and that is
where the concern is only about reasonableness. It's
about fairness. And here the Oregon legislature,
supplemented by the Oregon courts, have taken those
steps to properly constrain awards.
Since the decision in Oberg, there have been
only 14 punitive damage decisions in Oregon. Four of
them have been overturned entirely by the Oregon Supreme
Court, so no punitive damages awarded. There are only
two out of all those awards that exceed single digits,
and this is one of them. So I think that the courts
have done a good job there of trying to address these
concerns.
And one of the areas of agreement between
our opponents and us is that the statement in their
brief that, reprehensibility ensures that the greater
wrong receives the greater punishment. But the regime
that they are suggesting, one that has a categorical
ratio limit and atomizes this kind of consideration so
you don't look at the broader societal and public
purpose, that one guarantees a regime of
underdeterrence. And Oregon has, as it is their right,
opted for optimal deterrent effect. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Peck.
Mr. Frey, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW L. FREY
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. FREY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Let me, let me start with, let me start with the
observation that Mr. Peck has argued as though this was
a class action, as though total deterrence,
disgorgement, and all these things were all to be
achieved in this case, which is the heart of our problem
here with the denial of the instruction. He referred to
this other case in Oregon, which is the Schwarz case, as
finding liability also, but what he didn't mention was
that on the issue of the fraud relating, involving the
relationship between cancer, between smoking and health,
the jury found for the defendant. They found liability
on a different issue, but not on this issue. So it
hardly proves that we would lose all cases. It's also
true that in that case, where the jury did not
receive -- we asked for but we didn't get an instruction
like this -- the jury actually came back and said: Does
our award have to be reasonably related to the injury to
Mrs. Schwarz? And the judge refused to tell them the
answer to that. So juries do understand this problem
and they do think about this problem.
The suggestion was made that you can
present prior awards to the trial judge. Now, I, I hope
during my opening argument I covered the reasons why
there's a structural deficiency in the system if the
system even called for getting credit, which the
statutes don't require. But you should know that the
Oregon plaintiffs' lawyers have argued that under the
Oregon Constitution it must be presented to the jury or
is it may not be considered by the court. So while here
he wants to assure you that it can be presented to the
court, that's not the position they are taking below.
On the question by Justice Souter about
whether you should send it back and what the Oregon
Supreme Court meant by its discussion, if it didn't
mean what we say it meant they should have reversed
and said were entitled to the instruction or identified
some other reason why we're not entitled to the
instruction. Now, there may be some independent State
ground that you're not aware of, but you ought to say
at a minimum that they were wrong and that a defendant
in a punitive damages case is entitled to an instruction
of this general nature, and then we can let the Oregon
courts on remand address whether there is some other
problem which we frankly don't see, but that would be
for them.
Now, if Mr. Peck is right about the
nature of the conduct, there should be plenty of
lawsuits and plenty of liability. If there isn't, the
Court can't speculate that we ought to punish Philip
Morris more in this case because other people are not
sufficiently aggrieved to sue. That seems to me totally
impermissible speculation.
On the question of harm versus conduct,
the unit of prosecution is the cause of action, so that
it's not, it's not, you can repeatedly -- in our, in our
submission you can repeatedly punish a defendant for the
same conduct, for the impact of the same conduct causing
injury to different people. What we are basically
saying is that there are, there are potentially many
causes of action out there for this conduct and the
punishment in this case should be limited to the cause
of action that is being tried before the jury in this
case.
Let's see if I -- if I have anything
else. Justice Stevens talked about the ambiguity of the
closing argument and I agree it's not clear what
plaintiff's counsel was exactly saying. It could be
interpreted in different ways. But that is a reason to
have a cautionary instruction, not a reason to forgo
one, to make sure the jury understands the applicable
principles.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Frey.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
admissible 22:2 35:15 27:10,22 36:24 back 24:15
53:1 advocate 45:8 appears 33:7 assume 35:24 bad 30:8 39:15
aggrieved 52:1 36:16 assures 38:20 38:19
14:6 34:10 52:16 42:17 attempted 41:24 basically 9:8
23:5 agreement approach 48:13 attitude 38:16 18:17 27:2
30:11 24:14 49:11 appropriate authoritative 34:23 48:4
41:5,14 Alabama 39:6 24:3 34:11 47:1 52:8
42:8 Alito 33:9 34:20 36:19 authoritatively basis 21:22
12:9 allow 35:21 41:18 43:1 award 11:13 beginning 23:20
22:20,22 allowable 7:7 50:2 51:2 15:20 24:4,8 behalf 1:15,17
50:3 52:4 12:15 16:18 argues 27:4 25:7,11 30:7 2:4,7,10 3:7
allowed 29:12 arguing 21:1 37:22 38:8 7:22 25:18
41:25 26:19 20:15 25:17 16:19 46:7 43:6 45:9 48:7
41:23 44:12 aside 43:13 50:22 blameworthy
46:10 ANDREW 1:15 34:20 50:15 awareness 38:13 blush 30:1
2:3,9 3:6 49:23 asking 22:25 awful 30:6 34:6 BMW 9:9 23:7
51:18 answer 7:5 10:2 45:19,22 34:6,7 45:20
39:4 44:8,9 asserts 6:12 52:25 bothered 5:11
29:23 51:16,25 52:11 15:13 36:18 complaint 15:23 confusion 19:11
34:4 52:13,24,25 37:2 15:24 28:25
39:3 cases 10:24 13:3 citations 33:1 complete 7:5 connection 5:7
33:2 20:24 27:8,21 claim 8:16 18:3 30:1 conscious 37:16
28:23 30:25 42:21 compute 31:18 consider 4:14,21
50:13 class 5:17 7:10 concede 35:9 12:20 14:11
cause 52:4,11 clear 7:5,23 9:15 29:3 29:16 30:2
23:21 causing 52:7 41:22 46:10 48:16 consideration
cautionary client 7:23 49:10 16:15 22:15,19
18:3,4 19:22 52:16 conclusions considered
18:5 20:14 commit 7:3 26:17 38:18 considering 7:6
50:10 cetera 19:11,23 15:4 6:24 9:25 10:1 11:25 12:11
13:1,8 characterizati... 24:15 27:11 30:6,14 Constitution
33:2 company 33:18 32:6 33:11,14 48:19 51:3
15:4,7 Chief 3:3,8 39:13 33:14 34:13 constitutional
16:10 11:11,16,19 comparative 35:5 38:16 19:21 25:11
20:9,15 25:15 42:19 42:8,9 43:16 constrain 49:2
21:3 25:19 27:7,14 compensate 51:22 52:3,7,7 constrains 38:8
24:3,3,3 31:19 36:14 29:4,5 52:10 constraint 39:22
25:1,2,2 38:1 41:12 compensation confident 4:25 40:17
27:16 42:23 43:12 30:9 confine 21:2 construction
32:22,23 45:18 49:21,25 compensatory conflated 26:19 47:1
39:10,12 52:23 11:10 29:3 conflicting construed 48:15
47:5,9 choose 38:24,25 31:22 43:10 contains 19:2
50:5 chosen 48:12 competing confuse 4:20,25 48:19
42:2 35:14,15 36:12 16:6 22:13 defends 3:19 49:20
45:9,25 46:10 29:1 31:21,22 42:24 43:2,6 difference 9:14
49:6 51:4,6,9 37:10,12 38:20 20:17 27:17 16:4 31:25
courts 3:10,12 45:21 46:4,11 50:24 8:22 13:2 14:3
15:1,4 29:22 37:7 deal 15:18 18:21 difficult 17:21
9:4,22,24 covered 50:23 deceive 33:19 37:13 difficulty 7:21
29:16 create 34:12 deceived 13:6 denial 50:6 7:24 11:24
35:6 credit 16:15 14:13 22:4 denied 3:23 4:3 39:17
25:3 50:25 decide 8:10 8:5 digit 34:18
37:23 41:24,25deciding 12:23 depends 20:10 44:10
26:22 crimes 13:11,15 decision 3:11 describe 3:20 disagree 21:13
36:16,21 criminal 13:8 28:2 37:7 30:25 27:11,12
42:25 14:5 41:24 45:13,14 49:3 design 17:11 disagreement
52:17 criteria 37:6 decisions 19:13 23:20 44:12
44:1 44:3,4,8 defendant 4:16 determination 32:19,20
5:4 crucial 43:24 11:21 13:9,18 determine 10:1 discussed 26:13
6:4,8,11 customers 33:19 14:3 16:21 19:18 23:17 discusses 6:21
7:3 cut 40:8 17:23,24,25 36:12 discussion 51:9
8:4,15 cuts 38:18 20:4 22:8 determining disease 6:18
10:24 11:2 C's 24:3 23:23 26:10 4:15 10:12,15 47:16,20
15:17 27:16,17 28:9 10:23 11:4 disgorged 15:11
17:1,2 D 30:14,20 35:2 12:1,14 13:12 disgorgement
18:7 D 3:1 13:11,15 38:3,16,18,19 27:6 28:6,8 15:8 50:4
20:3 22:2 13:20 23:21,23 38:22 40:1,22 30:3 31:15,23 disparity 26:2
23:6 23:25 41:1 50:11 43:22 27:6
25:20 damage 30:7 51:15 52:6 deterred 29:8 disposition
27:4 46:18 49:4 defendants 35:17,19 18:12
28:2 damages 3:18 13:20 38:25 deterrence 46:1 distinct 36:8
30:8,16 6:13 10:17,19 defendant's 46:19 50:3 distinction 9:10
22:6 endorsing 22:3 explanation financial 26:16 39:7 42:20
29:3 engage 40:6 8:15 26:17 38:17 47:19 50:9
42:14,20 engaged 21:8 exposed 7:13 find 6:4 7:24 Frey 1:15 2:3,9
43:5 enigma 25:24 exposing 6:17 14:21 19:9,11 3:5,6,8 4:4,6,8
enormous 12:23 extent 4:14,21 38:5 39:11 6:19 8:1,9,24
ensures 49:13 26:1 28:5,7 22:3,4 50:8 10:7,10,22
42:25 43:7 extra 22:12 fired 22:8 15:22 16:7,11
51:16 34:17 37:7 4:23 5:24 9:8 19:14,24 20:9
2:6,9 22:1 34:3 five 14:10,12,15 49:22,23,25
20:25 45:7 47:3 38:15 39:17 friend 47:4
48:13 established 27:9 20:19 fixing 23:5 fully 46:24
evaluate 5:6 39:21 47:19 flexibility 33:23 37:23 46:8
22:2 failed 3:12 focused 8:4,16 further 12:7,8
19:12 faith 48:14 footnote 24:5 46:23 47:14
35:20 excessive 13:24 favor 35:24 forth 4:9 gained 15:1,5
39:24 16:23 favorable 29:10 found 11:8 general 3:18
46:15,20 Excuse 11:19 45:3,4 21:20 39:10,20 23:2 51:17
49:20 exercise 40:19 Federal 8:10 50:11,11 getting 12:21
48:3 expect 38:25 31:17 36:3 49:22 Ginsburg 4:4,7
experimentati... figuring 46:6 34:1 46:2 16:2,9 24:4,11
harm 3:17,24 30:6 42:22 9:23 instructions
31:6 5:19 6:1,8,14 33:18 3:13 20:2 35:6 19:11,19 31:20
37:5 7:7,9 10:16,20 highly 33:21 51:13 35:1 37:4 41:8
40:21 11:7,13,21 34:16 37:15 indicate 31:20 intended 12:16
18:23 16:13,14 21:20 hope 31:3 50:22 37:15,16 intentions 23:10
25:25 26:1,11 huge 40:2 individuals interested 46:19
30:13 27:22 28:5,8 hundred 30:9 infused 46:4 18:16
39:20 29:1,3,4,5,7,7 hurt 34:8 39:13 infuses 37:18 interpretation
29:13,16 30:2 hypothesis injured 22:24 29:21
19:20 31:15,16 32:2 hypothetical injury 10:18 52:18
32:1 32:21 33:5 15:4 30:7 50:17 interrelated
47:24 34:5 35:11 52:8 3:13
37:16 38:11 I inquiry 10:25 involving 50:9
30:17 42:10 43:1,3 identified 51:11 instance 5:18 40:21
42:12 43:15,17 44:11 illegitimate 39:16 isolated 12:17
49:9 45:8 52:3 18:20 instances 48:10 issue 3:21 8:4,10
20:13 21:5,19 imagine 47:22 instructing 9:12 issues 3:13,21
51:14 21:8 33:11 52:7 6:3,5,22 7:22 Jesse 4:12 7:7
37:17 50:10 implied 48:21 10:7,10 18:8 33:21
41:6 5:25 28:1 imposition 26:8 32:18 36:21,25 50:18,22
helped 37:5 17:13 43:18 44:17,22 37:24,25 45:9
25:15,19 26:21 knowingly 38:13 40:22 45:7
25:10 26:25 27:7,14 33:19 limit 32:7 49:16 47:3,10,13
32:9 28:3,12,13,20 limited 52:11 48:5,6,7 53:1
42:5,6,6 29:9,12,15,23 L limiting 18:17 maximum 16:18
31:5,8,11,19 L 1:15 2:3,9 3:6 line 27:19,20 MAYOLA 1:6
33:9 34:4,10 language 18:6,7 little 19:2 42:21 34:6,19 35:25
11:17 35:23 36:4,14 14:13 18:10 long 34:11 35:11 means 5:6,17
6:13,22 39:3 40:9,16 45:5 longer 33:7 44:24
9:12,17 41:3,11,12 law 7:2 8:3 47:24,25 meant 15:17
11:20 42:5,13,16,23 15:16,17 16:2 look 7:17 19:7,9 19:22 34:18,24
12:20,23 43:4,12,20 16:8 18:10 26:5,20 30:17 36:12,15 51:9
13:4 44:3,4,6,6,14 19:12,21,22 32:9 33:3 34:5 51:10
16:5 44:19,25 45:3 24:17 26:14 34:6 36:14 measure 3:16
18:21 45:18 46:12 30:23 31:1 42:3 49:17 34:17
21:2,4,5 47:4,8 49:21 35:7 41:24 looking 31:1 measures 39:25
49:25 51:7 lawsuit 23:17,18 32:12,12,14 40:6 46:22
23:7 52:15,23 46:3 47:15 36:15 37:5 meet 37:12
27:3 lawsuits 4:18 looks 39:15 43:11
30:5 K 23:13,14 51:23 lose 25:4 50:13 memos 39:12
35:1,2 keep 16:17 20:3 lawyers 32:1 losing 26:21 mention 7:18
37:5 36:22 51:2 lost 47:11 50:8
KENNEDY leave 8:21 lot 18:6 mentioned 36:4
40:10 14:22 15:3 leaving 28:14,16 lower 17:5 merits 25:5
40:9,16 led 15:25 method 48:12
42:12,25 key 4:8 46:16 left 28:14 43:21 M million 15:6,6
44:15 kill 34:8 44:7 machine 22:8 23:14
50:11,14 killed 22:11 legal 8:11 21:1 mail 13:16 14:8 mind 20:3 23:10
51:3 kind 18:12 48:6 majesty 48:23 36:2,3,22
19:20 32:8 legally 4:1 major 40:17 minimum 51:15
5:2,9,20 35:19 40:7 48:25 majority 34:2 minutes 49:22
7:15 8:2,13 48:13 49:16 legitimate 18:19 making 5:21 misconduct 4:13
9:5,11 knew 33:20 35:24 16:17 17:17 4:17 12:18
10:2,9,13 know 5:2,21 let's 48:18,18 32:17 26:9 29:2,7
10:24 15:16 52:14 manslaughter 30:15 32:12,13
14:2 16:9 17:15,17 level 8:17 12:14 14:25 15:7 33:22,25 35:3
15:3,15 19:10,16 23:4 12:15 25:10 manslaughters 38:12,15,17,24
17:8,15 25:7 29:18 40:15 15:5 40:7 42:3 46:6
19:4,16 36:1,1,6,11 levels 33:18 market 33:16 46:22
21:4 37:11 39:4,6,8 liability 39:9,10 massive 33:16 mixtures 19:21
22:6,11 40:3 41:2,23 50:8,11 51:23 master 24:14 money 15:24
23:16 44:1,7 45:6,7,7 liable 15:5,6 materials 4:10 17:23 47:6
24:4,11 47:7 48:9 51:1 light 3:11 matter 1:11 morning 3:4
6:12 7:12 14:14 48:19,21 9:6 13:6 14:24 26:10,17 28:21 perfect 19:6,7
16:5 48:23 15:16,17,19 33:5 37:18 19:12
26:18 numerous 4:10 16:2,8,12,22 41:12 46:16 perfectly 32:5
29:19,21 17:12,12 18:10particular 6:16 36:19
43:17 O 19:5,12,21 11:5 12:25 period 47:17
47:24 O 2:1 3:1 22:2,3 24:6,8 13:1 permissible 33:8
Oberg 37:7 49:3 25:6,23 26:4 particularly permit 18:8 48:9
27:7 28:1 29:17 parties 24:8 21:6 22:19,24
32:7 observation 35:7,15,18 passage 34:24 6:24,24 30:16
46:25 50:2 36:17 37:2,4,6passenger 46:2 35:3,4
obvious 13:2 37:23 38:14 patent 39:7 petition 6:11
occurred 42:1 45:9 46:24 pay 14:25 Petitioner 1:4
36:21 Oregonians 29:17 31:5,9 13:6 16:5
27:10 32:24 40:2 22:4 35:4,12 34:9,14 35:13 33:2,16 34:25
40:19 old 30:17 ought 51:14,24 36:11 37:3,22 43:17 45:12
ones 39:23 outrageous 38:4 39:21 47:24 51:24
16:16 outside 36:18 41:20 42:11,15 places 4:10
42:19,20 opinion 7:17,19 P 45:22 46:15 15:20,23 16:3
6:1,9,14,16 optimal 49:20 pages 6:20 21:19,20,22 36:16 41:17
option 40:12,22 paid 16:6 24:10 22:9,13,22 52:17
16:3 Oregon 3:10,12 parsing 5:13 37:1 42:8,10 plurality 33:6
3:21,25 5:4,19 part 5:16 14:12 45:1 51:25 point 6:21 7:18
32:17 38:24 7:9 44:24 11:20 12:5,7 52:3
24:16 27:20 46:18 43:9,13,14 3:16 4:11 5:17 quoted 29:25
51:6 50:22 proposition 8:11 5:18 7:7,13 41:12
26:25 probe 18:21,22 13:16 14:9 13:23,25 14:10
15:10,11 35:16 20:6,7 23:13 raised 8:17
20:23 19:1 22:23 24:21,22 41:1 39:25 41:9 rapidly 47:22
52:9 23:19,20 29:24 protections 7:14 49:14 52:11 48:2
48:5 50:20 51:19 prove 47:20 14:20 46:21 25:9
31:9 provide 29:18 10:17,19 11:9 30:13 33:5
15:25 provides 24:6,18 15:20 16:3,6 44:23 45:14,15
34:14 48:17,22 public 14:7 26:8 29:1 rational 33:17
products 39:9 4:16 5:15 6:1,8 45:20 46:4,11 reaction 30:22
21:12,13 profitability 10:9 12:25 49:4,6 51:16 28:4 29:24
40:13,13 profits 15:12 21:14,15 23:20 18:19,19,20
35:1 27:15 29:1,2 42:8 44:10 35:10,10,24
proper 4:1 6:1,8 33:11 35:11 purposes 16:13 real 30:19 31:1
20:21 21:2 41:19 42:10 putting 43:13 really 8:3 20:6
13:23 16:19 punished 5:8 10:3,4 13:8 reason 5:12 8:22
49:2 41:24 34:20,23 38:2 51:12 52:18,19
11:5,6 relationship 42:1 runs 34:24 19:17 29:20
26:1 4:12,15 10:16 requirement 33:12 36:17
10:20 11:6,9 32:15 46:16 S 37:1 51:19
31:13,16 26:2 28:7,10 requires 17:1 S 1:17 2:1,6 3:1 52:14
38:9 28:19,21 30:3 38:5 25:17 seeing 7:24
31:13,16,17 residents 6:17 safety 37:17 seeking 33:22
relationships 12:11 14:22 saw 39:7 selling 15:12
relevance 38:2 27:17 28:17,18 23:2,11,12 11:22
49:23 17:6 respond 8:14 44:20,21 52:9 29:24 33:10
remember results 13:2 29:20 31:14 seriously 39:14
removes 46:8 reversed 51:10 35:10 46:17 setting 14:11,14
12:12 52:5,6 23:14 25:8 35:21 21:15 30:6
repose 47:13,16 risk 6:17 21:8 21:4,17 26:21 47:15
27:22 28:18,20 36:8 37:15 29:12,15 32:16 significant 26:5
reprehensible 11:11,16,19 22:1 23:3 26:9
25:8 request 8:4,17 42:23 43:12 13:17 14:4 49:7
8:19 20:4 45:18 49:21 16:10 22:19 six 48:9
35:8 49:12 suffered 4:14,21 44:2 50:24,25 14:17,18 15:8
47:16,25 15:19 35:12 27:5 28:5,8 T 17:16,19 18:13
39:5 48:9 30:2,7,12,18 T 2:1,1 19:2,12,24
24:6,13 26:18 48:16 32:20 34:2 30:19 34:10,21
statutory 32:14 37:3 40:20 48:7 49:1 43:8,12,25
8:2,13 9:5 14:2 22:6,11 49:15 talking 4:4 thought 15:17
10:2,9 22:18,25 23:16 suggestion task 3:11 27:8 28:11
35:13,23 23:24 41:3,11 17:16,18 50:21 tell 18:20 36:9 thousand 32:3,4
44:25 52:15 summarizes 38:7 50:18 32:6
stop 3:20 5:1 29:20 telling 17:4 three 27:1 38:13
strategic 40:22 supplemented ten 30:10 37:13
subject 20:5 supposed 5:14 49:20,21,25 times 30:9,10,10
50:1,1 submission 52:6 Supreme 1:1,12 theory 20:10 told 3:23 4:20
27:24 6:8,15 7:17 13:25 17:21 12:19,24 25:24
15:21 53:1 17:13 22:3 things 5:24 42:7,7 44:17
20:2,3 submitting 17:1 26:4,13 27:13 18:11 19:10 44:22
24:8 17:4 28:2 29:18 23:11 26:13 tomorrow 47:18
subsidiary 32:18,19 34:15 50:4 tort 20:11,16
37:23,24 45:16 34:24 37:4 think 4:19,24,24 total 13:24
45:13,20 substantial 46:24 49:5 6:15 7:4,6,22 39:24 46:15
47:19 51:9 8:3,5,7,9,10 50:3
substantially sure 35:21 52:20 9:13,16 10:7 totally 16:21
sue 52:1 20:17 11:22 12:12,19 52:1
unfair 16:24 46:10 52:18 York 1:15 4
24:5 unit 52:4 weigh 47:2 4 4:9
39:1 40:2 United 1:1,12 welfare 37:17 Z 49 2:10
47:12 unreasonable weren't 9:12 zero 14:12,15
37:15 19:11 20:16 5
unsuccessful we're 15:24 $1 15:6
12:21 unusual 42:2 19:3,20 23:11
upheld 45:9 51:12 0
1:5
50:14 USA 1:3 4:12 7:8 10:17
14:9 23:15 10 14:19
v 1:5 3:4 33:21 35:5 11:04 52:25
43:10 verdict 14:17 48:2 18(a) 6:10 33:10
49:7 20:23 23:5 withhold 40:25 195a 17:3
37:23 46:8 14:16 48:10
11:20 18:12 19:17 2006 1:9
want 8:21 9:7 wrong 8:3 19:10 25 2:7
25:11 wanted 17:15 51:15 28(a) 6:25
41:7 warned 36:22
warrant 11:8 X 3
50:19 Washington 1:8 x 1:2,7 13:18 3 2:4 29:22 33:9
wasn't 18:1 30(a) 33:3
16:25
way 7:16,19 Y 1:15 31 1:9
35:5 years 14:10,19
