IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
GARY DAVENPORT, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 05-1589
WASHINGTON EDUCATION ASSOCIATION; :
and :
WASHINGTON, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 05-1657
WASHINGTON EDUCATION ASSOCIATION :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 10, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:08 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ROBERT M. MCKENNA, ESQ., Attorney General, Olympia,
Wash.; on behalf of Petitioners.
PAUL D. CLEMENT, Solicitor General, Department of
Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioners.
JOHN M. WEST, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ROBERT M. MCKENNA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Petitioners 14
JOHN M. WEST, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ROBERT M. MCKENNA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 48
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:08 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in 05-1589, Davenport versus Washington Education
Association, and 05-1657 consolidated, Washington versus
Washington Education Association.
General McKenna.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT M. MCKENNA
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. MCKENNA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Washington law authorizes union security
agreements which permit unions to enter into collective
bargaining agreements that require non-member employees
to pay an agency shop fee or lose their job. The
union's authority to select these compelled fees is
based solely on statute and the subject of statutory
conditions. Section 760, as adopted by Washington
voters in 1992, requires unions to obtain the
affirmative consent from non-members before their fees
may be used to influence an election or operate a
political committee. 760 serves the state's interest in
election integrity by means of ensuring that union
election activity is funded by voluntary contributions,
just like every other organization that seeks political
funds. 760 is a valid condition on the union statutory
authority and does not violate the union's First
Amendment rights.
760 serves the state's interests specified
in the adopted initiative, which were -- which are found
at petition appendix 138a codified as RCW 4217.620.
Three interests in election integrity are stated, or
three means of serving an interest in election integrity
are stated in this portion, the intent portion of the
statute.
First, to ensure that individuals have a
fair and equal opportunity to influence elections;
second, to reduce the influence of large organizational
contributors; third, to restore public trust in the
election process. The Washington Supreme Court,
petition appendix 22a-23a, agreed that the intent of
Initiative 134 was to protect the integrity of the
election process from the perception that individuals
have an insignificant role to play.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm surprised that that's
the -- I would have thought its primary purpose would be
to spare individuals the necessity of supporting causes
that they don't support. Was there no First Amendment
interest.
MR. MCKENNA: Justice Scalia, I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it only an election law
interest?
MR. MCKENNA: Actually, Justice Scalia, we
believe that Section, Section 760 accomplishes both
purposes. The overall intent of the initiative was as I
stated found by the State Supreme Court, but clearly
from the plain language of Section 760 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you just said the State
Supreme Court was wrong. I mean, why do you believe it
on this if you don't believe it on everything else?
You're appealing from it, aren't you?
MR. MCKENNA: We believe that the integrity
of the election process, Justice Scalia, is in fact
served by helping ensure that individuals make voluntary
contributions. We think that in fact it does help the
integrity of the election process, yes, sir.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, how can the State
Supreme Court determine what is the purpose, the intent,
of the ballot initiative?
MR. MCKENNA: I'm not certain, Your Honor.
They referred to the --
JUSTICE ALITO: A lot of people voted for
it.
MR. MCKENNA: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: But is the State Supreme
Court in a position to determine why they voted for it?
MR. MCKENNA: They simply hold, Your Honor,
in their opinion that this is what the voters intended.
JUSTICE ALITO: How do they know that?
MR. MCKENNA: I don't know how they know it,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: If that's what they
intended, then how can a State say, well, it's the
union's money, we don't want you to send this little bit
of your money to contribute in a campaign, but if the
local swimming team wants to, or the bar association or
the corporation, if they want to spend money that people
have given them for totally other purposes, the
compulsory bar association, well, they can do that.
It's just the labor unions that can't spend the money
that these people forced to belong -- you know, they
have to object affirmatively -- but all the other
similar organizations, they can't.
MR. MCKENNA: Your Honor, beginning with the
Railway Labor Act case and continuing up through the
public school teacher cases, Abood and Hudson, this
Court has recognized that compelling employees to pay
fees must be balanced against the need to protect them
from --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, now you're talking
about this other purpose, but that other purpose, which
is rather interesting -- I take it that's one of the
main points on the other side -- the other purpose has
nothing to do with this case. If Washington wanted to
have a similar statute where it was worried about
protecting the interests of the compelled member or the
compelled payor, fine, fine, that would be a different
case. That isn't this case.
MR. MCKENNA: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: In this case they couldn't
care less about that.
MR. MCKENNA: Actually, Your Honor, I think
the plain language of 760 makes it clear that the
authors of the initiative intended to protect individual
interests. There is no meaningful distinction between
the use of individuals in 760, in Section 760, than
there is in the Hudson, in the Hudson statute, for
example. The Hudson statute, the Illinois statute at
issue in Hudson, also required nonmembers to opt in in
order to make, not just political contributions but any
contributions. But the Court, this Court, found no
problem with Hudson or with the Illinois statute in that
case.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's true, but in that
case, in that case they didn't have a State Supreme
Court interpreting the statute which is just as you
started off saying it was, which has nothing to with the
rights of the nonmember, zero. It has to do with the
appearance of fairness in the election.
MR. MCKENNA: Your Honor, with due respect
that was the legal conclusion of the Washington Supreme
Court. It was not a construction of the statute. It
was a legal conclusion based on their reading or
divining of voter intend. But this Court is not bound
by such an assessment.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I wanted to ask
about that. Suppose Washington says that as a matter of
Washington law we are bound by our interpretation of
purpose and we interpret the statute according to that
purpose. You use the words "plain language" a few
minutes ago.
MR. MCKENNA: Yes. Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are we free to disregard
that and to say. Oh well, we're just going to follow
the plain language?
MR. MCKENNA: No, no.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Like the says that was
argued, the first case this morning?
MR. MCKENNA: Your Honor, as Chief Justice
Roberts mentioned in the last case you heard this
morning, first look to the plain language, as the
Solicitor General has pointed out in numerous briefs --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's a Federal, a
Federal statute and this is a State statute. If the
State court says, we're interested in purposes, we
decided, and you must as a matter of State law interpret
the statute according to the purpose as we found it,
aren't we bound by that?
MR. MCKENNA: I don't believe you are bound
by that, Your Honor. For example --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's your authority for
that?
MR. MCKENNA: Wisconsin v. Mitchell, Your
Honor. In that case the Wisconsin Supreme Court was
found by this Court not to have constructed the statute,
but to have made an assessment of its practical effects,
and this Court found it was not bound. Similarly in
Teller, a case more directly relevant to this case, the
State Supreme Court found that the Bar Association of
California is a governmental agency and this Court
declined to follow the State Supreme Court of California
and found that in fact it was not.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's because the
characterization had a Federal consequence.
MR. MCKENNA: Your Honor, I simply observed
that this Court did not find it was bound by the
California Supreme Court's finding that the bar
association is a government agency, nor did it find in
Wisconsin v. Mitchell that it was bound by the Wisconsin
Supreme Court in regards to its assessment of practical
effects of the Wisconsin statute at issue there.
JUSTICE BREYER: Do they get their money
back? If this is upheld and I'm an agency member, I
hate the union, can't stand it, gave them the $20 for
this and they spent it on a political candidate I hate
even more and you win, do I get my $20 back or can the
union just spend my $20 on something else?
MR. MCKENNA: Your Honor, if it is a 760
expense they should get the money back. If it is a
non-760 expense which is not germane, then they would
have to opt out at that -- they would have to opt out to
get that kind of money back, unless Your Honor is
referring to what happens on, if the statute is upheld,
what happens when we go back and have a further trial on
the issues in this case. I'm not sure which scenario
you were envisioning, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm trying to get at the
question is this the union's money or is this the
workers', the teachers' money?
MR. MCKENNA: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: So does he get this money
back if they violate the statute.
MR. MCKENNA: Your Honor, the 760 money --
excuse me. The 760 money is not the union's money until
they have satisfied the conditions laid out in the
statute, in this case Section 760. Possession of the
fees does not entitle the WEA or any union to use those
fees to influence an election or operate a political
committee until after they have satisfied the condition
on that collection, the condition being in this case
they have to obtain affirmative authorization. This
Court held in Phillipson and Brown that, analogizing to
that money, that non-members own the fees until the
statutory conditions are satisfied.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let, let's assume that it
makes a difference whether the purpose of the statute
was at least in part to protect the First Amendment
rights of the non-union members or whether, as the
Washington Supreme Court seemed to say -- at least they
said its principal purpose was to protect the voting
process. Elsewhere in its opinion, however, the
Washington Supreme Court says where a statute is
ambiguous and this court is able to construe it in a
manner which renders it constitutional the court is
obliged to do so, which sounds to me like good law.
Wouldn't that apply to its intuition as to what the
intent of the people who enacted this statute were?
MR. MCKENNA: Yes, sir --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wouldn't the Washington
Supreme Court be obliged to intuit that purpose which
would make it constitutional rather than
unconstitutional?
MR. MCKENNA: Yes, Your Honor, it would if
in fact Section 760 were ambiguous. It is, however, not
ambiguous. It is plain on its face, and in fact the
Supreme Court did not state that any term or phrase in
Section 760 is ambiguous. Instead they referred to
their divination of voter intent. And I believe, Your
Honor --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you agree with the
court's conclusion that constitutionality is at issue
here?
MR. MCKENNA: The constitutionality of the
statute with regard to the union's First Amendment
rights is not at issue here, Your Honor, no.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Isn't it your position
that this statute is constitutional either way you
interpret it?
MR. MCKENNA: Yes, Your Honor, it is. Your
Honor, I'd like to make the further point that -- and I
think this is a fairly obvious point, but we think that
since under your decisions the State can prohibit a
union from collecting an agency fee altogether, that it
is reasonable for the State to impose a condition on
that collection which falls, falls far short of actually
prohibiting it. We further point out that in the Hudson
case the Illinois statute at issue was effectively an
opt-in statute, a statute under which no amount that was
not germane could be collected in advance, unlike the
more generous Washington State statute which allows the
union, permits the union, to collect a fee in an amount
equal to dues or would permit it to collect a fee which
had been reduced in advance to reflect non-germane or
reduced just to reflect 760 expenses.
It seems to us that it is within the power
of the State to establish such a condition in the
interest of an election's integrity by means of
protecting the First Amendment interests of the
non-members, and we think the statute does that very
well without imposing in fact a substantial
administrative burden on the union in this case or
unions in general. For example, the, the way that the
WEA or any union can comply with Section 760 would be to
simply place an additional form in the Hudson packet
they send out. Now, recognizing that the Hudson packet
is about this thick, that it is received by the teachers
in September, the busiest month of the year for
teachers, and that there is no form currently provided
in that packet whatsoever to allow people to opt out,
but rather a statement that you must send a letter to
the union to opt out, we think it's quite easy. And we
look to the WEA PAC for instruction on what they could
do. But now. Because the WEA has chosen to form a PAC
and is required to solicit members and non-members if
they choose in order to contribute to that PAC, they do
a very good job of soliciting members. They include a
very convenient form encouraging people to check off and
send their dues in to the PAC to support candidate
elections. They provide no such form for the opt-out
process, but it would be easy for them to do so.
The burden imposed on them is not great
administratively, as they suggest, any more than the
burden on the other teachers unions in Abood or in
Hudson because it can easily be met through these
simple.
If there are no further questions, Your
Honor, I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
General Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GENERAL PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE
IN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONERS
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice and may
it please the Court:
The statute at issue here imposes only a
narrow limitation on the union's use of agency fees,
namely by requiring the affirmative assent of the
non-members before the union may use those funds for
non- germane political expenditures. The statute does
not limit the union's ability to spend its own money on
political causes and every avenue that is available to
any other organization in the State to solicit
contributions from non- members remains available to the
union.
The court below nonetheless struck the
statute down only by treating the workers' minimum
constitutional rights as a constitutional ceiling as
well as a floor. In the process, the court below
rigidly constitutionalized an area of labor law in which
the States and the Federal Government have at least
since the Lochner era enjoyed substantial discretion to
make labor policy. We would request that the Court
reverse the decision below, but also reverse and restore
room for play in the joints in this area of labor law.
I think the starting problem with the
court's analysis below is that the rights that are at
issue in this area principally are the rights of the
individual workers. This court has recognized that
agency shop itself raises significant First Amendment
issues and First Amendment impingements and so the
forced extraction of fees is justified only to the
extent that it can be justified by the government's
interest in maintaining labor peace or in avoiding free
ridership. So as a minimum constitutional matter, the
workers have to have an opt- out right. The question is
whether the States can go further and either do an
opt-in regime or do what was at issue in the Hudson case
and not even allow the union to collect the non-germane
funds in the first place from non-members.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Clement, if we reverse
as you suggest and the State Supreme Court said, well, I
guess we were wrong under the First Amendment, we just
realized our State constitution requires the same
result, would that judgment stand, do you think?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think it might well. I
mean, I think there might be an argument at that point
that somehow the Federal Constitution requires more than
opt-out rights. Certainly some of the amici have made
that argument. The Davenport Petitioners have made that
argument, and I suppose you could at that point confront
a second petition in this case. But at least as a
starting matter, I think that's an option that's
available to the Washington Supreme Court.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But Washington -- at a
minimum, I would assume that the Washington Supreme
Court would not have constitutional avoidance as a
crutch in order to reach that, to reach that conclusion,
because there is no constitutional issue here under your
view.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Right, though I mean -- I
don't mean to be able to constrain the Washington
Supreme Court's ability to find a State constitutional
problem that it would then think there's a need to
avoid.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are the courts in
Washington State elected, do we know that? Are they
elected?
GENERAL CLEMENT: They are elected.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They are elected, so it's
easier to blame it on us than it is for them to say, we
hold as a matter of Washington law that this can't be
done and we disallow what the people have voted for.
That would be harder, a harder call, don't you think?
GENERAL CLEMENT: It might be a harder call,
Justice Scalia. I seem to recall a reference -- it
might have actually been in the court of appeals opinion
rather than in the State Supreme Court opinion -- that
as a general matter the Washington courts have not
construed their First Amendment, State constituent First
Amendment to be radically different than the Federal
Constitution. So I would imagine there's going to be
some State law that may limit their ability to do that.
I'm certainly not an expert on the Washington State law
of the First Amendment.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if this money is the
non-union member's money and an opt-out -- I'm sorry --
opt-in scheme is not much of a burden on the unions, why
should the First Amendment permit anything other than an
opt-in scheme.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, it's a
fair question. As I say, it's a question that's
certainly raised by the Davenport Petitioners. I think
there's an answer to it and I'll get to it in a minute.
But I would say in fairness to Mr. -- one of the
anomalies of this case is that in many respects I think
that's a more difficult constitutional question than the
one that the Washington Supreme Court answered adversely
to Petitioners in this case.
I think, if I can sketch an answer as to why
it is that the opt out is the constitutional minimum and
there isn't as a matter of constitutional law required
to be an opt-in right, I think it goes back to what the
Court has construed as the relevant First Amendment
interest here. And the Court has seemingly construed
the relevant First Amendment interest here in not having
a compelled extraction, and as part and parcel of the
constitutional violation, it seems to have assumed
there's a need for a stated objection. And I think
that's where you get the opt-out right.
And so if you put it in the analogy, an
analogous compelled speech context like Willie against
Maynard and the New Hampshire license plate, in that
context an important parcel of the violation is the
objection to having "Live Free or Die" on your license
plate. And the Court hasn't construed the compelled
speech there to be that everybody has a compelled speech
violation because they are presumptively forced to have
the license plate on the back of their car. So I think
that --
JUSTICE ALITO: The union can make it as
difficult as it wants for somebody to opt out. They can
send a packet that's this thick and not provide a form.
MR. CLEMENT: I wouldn't think so, Justice
Alito. And I think that there are two separate
questions, I would think. One is, what is an adequate
set of procedures and protections for exercising the
opt-out right? And then a separate question would be,
do you actually have to go all the way to an opt-in
right? And I think that there may well be many cases
where the Hudson notice that's provided doesn't provide
a sufficient constitutional opportunity. I mean, you
have in a case like this, a 100-page packet, I'm told,
that has no -- no form in it that you're supposed to
return to opt out. You basically have to go to the
third page, find the address of the president of the
union, and then send in a letter.
And I think it's instructive if you look in
the joint appendix, I think it's at page joint appendix
45, you have the form that's available to union members
to opt in to PAC contributions, and have payroll
deductions made for the PAC contributions. The union
certainly makes it much easier to opt in to PAC
contributions than it makes it to opt out vis a vis the
Hudson packet.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it relevant, General
Clement, that the legislature didn't seem to be, or the
ballot initiative didn't seem to be focused at all on
beefing up the rights of the non-member of the union?
It seemed to be concerned with the integrity of the
election process, because they left the same old Hudson
in place for union nongermane spending that didn't have
to do with elections.
MR. CLEMENT: That's absolutely right,
Justice Ginsburg, and I think the way we look at it is
that this whole debate about the purpose of the
provision is a little bit of a red herring, because at
the end of the day it's clearly a hybrid. If you look
at the text, it's hard to understand how it does not
have at least the effect of protecting workers. On the
other hand, you're absolutely right that it doesn't
address the entirety of germane, of non-germane
expenses. It addressed a subset that have the most
direct impact on the election process.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or even nongermane
political expenses.
MR. CLEMENT: That's true. That's true, I
mean, for example, a nongermane lobbying expense which
you might consider to be political in some broad sense,
is not covered by the opt-in and remains subject to the
Hudson opt out right.
But I don't think that there is certainly
anything problematic about that. It's not like the
interest in protecting electoral integrity is some sort
of forbidden government interest that makes this a
suspicious piece of legislation. And I think at the
end, if you again put the text of the relevant provision
together with the overall purpose, it's clear that it's
trying to protect the rights of workers but it's doing
so in service of a broader intent of improving electoral
integrity, and I could suggest where maybe the
Washington Supreme Court went awry in its analysis, it
focused almost exclusively on the three stated purposes
that were included in the text of Initiative 134, which
were all focused more on electoral integrity.
That's not surprising, because there were 36
sections in Initiative 134 that dealt with the whole
manner of different campaign finance initiatives.
Before this initiative was passed by the voters of
Washington there weren't any campaign contribution
limits in the State of Washington.
So this initiative is doing a lot more work,
just besides Section 760. I think 760 isn't unrelated
to those broader purposes because it does make sure that
the contributions of the workers here are voluntary, and
I think that is certainly something that's very similar
to what Federal law accomplishes through the separate
segregated fund requirements.
If I could make just one note about the fact
that this targets unions and not other entities, I think
two points are relevant. The first is that argument was
very clearly waived, and if you look at footnote 6 of
the Washington Supreme Court opinion which is at 25a of
the -- of the State's petition appendix, it's clear that
any argument about the, the disparate treatment of
unions versus corporations or other entities was not
before that court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, are there any other
such entities that are given the power by the State to
collect money from people against their will?
GENERAL CLEMENT: You've anticipated my
second point, which is the power that's being -- I mean,
it's no accident that they targeted this particular
power or this particular issue because it has always
been understood to be an anomaly in this area. That the
unions have a right to effectively take a claim on the
paycheck on people who are nonmembers of the union.
These are individuals who have already opted out of
union membership, and that is a sufficient anomaly and
sufficiently unlike any other context that I think there
is nothing that prevents the State of Washington from
targeting that problem and that problem alone.
If there are no further questions, thank
you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. West.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN M. WEST,
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MR. WEST: Thank you, Mr. Chief -- Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
Our submission that Section 760
unconstitutionally burdens the union's First Amendment
right to engage in political advocacy rests on three
points. One, the statute before the Court is a campaign
finance law that was enacted for the purpose of
protecting the public's interest in the integrity of the
electoral process. Two, it is a content-based
restriction on speech, which cannot be justified by the
State's authority to limit agency fees in the first
place. Three, the statute does not serve a compelling
State interest both because it is overbroad in
restricting, restricting speech on ballot propositions
and because it's underinclusive in regulating the
campaign speech of unions but not of other comparably
situated entities.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are the First Amendment
rights of the union members, of the workers who are
non-union members relevant?
MR. WEST: Uh, the First Amendment rights --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, you -- you begin
by talking about the First Amendment but you, you
proceed as if there are no First Amendment rights of, of
workers involved at all.
MR. WEST: The -- the -- the nonmember
employees certainly have a First Amendment right not to
be compelled to finance, help finance political,
ideological and other nongermane expenditures over their
objection. And that right is fully protected
independently of 760 by the Hudson process, and as the
Washington Supreme Court held, when there is the
availability of a ready means for opting out of that
participation in, in financing those causes, there is no
compelled speech. And this is what the, what the First
Amendment gives to the nonmember fee payers.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I take it States
have considerable discretion in determining how to
protect Federal constitutional rights.
MR. WEST: The States --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And absent some direction
that we have to consider this as only being for a, for
purposes of election transparency, it seems to me that
Washington acted quite properly in saying we will use
this mechanism in order to protect our workers' First
Amendment constitutional rights.
MR. WEST: Well, what the State is
protecting, Justice Kennedy, is not the First Amendment
right itself which by definition is protected through
the Hudson process.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, why can't the State
protect it more? I mean the fact that Hudson would be
adequate -- it --
MR. WEST: The State --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- from that it does not
follow that the State is not protecting the rights.
MR. WEST: The State can certainly protect
the interest that is protected by the First Amendment
right more, or to a greater degree, but if it does so,
it can only do so if it does not infringe on other
constitutional rights. And if it does then the question
is whether the State's regulation that infringes on
other constitutional rights, in this case the union's
First Amendment right of political advocacy, whether
that infringement is justified by a compelling State
interest.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And your claim as I take
it, that there is an infringement with the union's right
of political advocacy, is that if in effect the scheme
restricts the union's use of its own funds?
MR. WEST: The scheme restricts the, the use
of funds that are, are properly collected from agency
fee payers by the union and --
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right. You agree that
the union could segregate these funds as opposed to
commingling them, and that would cure, that would in
effect answer your, your constitutional objection?
MR. WEST: Well, it wouldn't, because then
the question is what do you do after you've segregated
them. If the statute --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it's clear from the
statute that, that what you would do would be leave them
subject to the opt-in determination, but all other
funds, i.e., the funds that you are constitutionally
entitled to protect, would be unencumbered.
MR. WEST: Certainly Justice Souter, but
then the question is, for those fee payers, and
certainly there are going to be some out of three or
four thousand that do not give affirmative
authorization, then what do you do with their funds?
And the, the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you think that would
create an independent constitutional problem assuming
that you did segregate the funds?
MR. WEST: Justice Souter, the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That would, that would
create an issue? You know, what if they say: Nothing?
Maybe, maybe the statute does not deal adequately with
that. But does that raise a constitutional problem that
in effect would be, would be of equal parity with the
one that is, that is raised on behalf of the, the, the
dissenting workers?
MR. WEST: Justice Souter, the reason it
raises a constitutional problem is because of the
content discrimination issue. What the State is saying
is that you have a right to collect an agency fee that
is the full equivalent of union dues, but if you choose
to spend any money from your treasury for electoral
advocacy, you may spend whatever you want from your
treasury for -- for legislative lobbying, for public
relations, for all kinds of other issues, forms of
speech that are not chargeable to objectors. But if you
choose to spend any for one particular type of speech,
namely electoral advocacy, then you must segregate and
refund a portion of the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's, under --
MR. WEST: -- to the fee payers.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Under the Federal law you
can't even have this opt-in system. You have to have a
separate organization as I understand, for the election.
So there would be no, no possibility that the nonmember
of the union, that funds would go to election financing.
MR. WEST: Certainly, Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's much harder on
the union, I would think, isn't it?
MR. WEST: Well, it's much harder on the
union in that respect but not in the respect that's
critical here, and that is the Federal law as well as
the laws of all the other States who have, have required
separate segregated funds limit that requirement to
candidate elections.
The, the reason this statute is
unconstitutional, the reason it does not consist of a
compelling, does not provide a compelling governmental
interest in regulating elections, is because it goes far
beyond the permissible realm of regulating expenditures
on candidate elections, and prohibits the union without
affirmative authorization from spending its funds for
ballot propositions.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You're -- you're back to
its funds again.
MR. WEST: Whether they're --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And you're saying, first
you said well, segregating the funds does not answer the
problem. And I thought the reason it didn't answer the
problem was that the, that it was, that the purposes of
the, of the act were underinclusive. And now you're
responding to Justice Ginsburg by going back to making
the assumption that the segregated funds would be the
union's funds.
MR. WEST: Justice Souter, if they are
segregated, if the union segregates them, assuming they
don't -- for those for whom they don't receive
affirmative authorization, they keep them in escrow
indefinitely, or they put them in a locked box and never
do anything with them, certainly the union would satisfy
the statute in -- in that way.
But what, what the statute says as
interpreted by the trial court, if then the union puts
those funds back into its general treasury, or even if
it doesn't, and spends them in some way for some purpose
whatever, that it's violating the statute. And the only
way that the union can comply is by not only segregating
the funds, but then if affirmative authorization is not
received, by rebating a certain portion of the fund to
the individual fee payers.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I thought that
approach was exactly what we held was required in the
Street decision, the International Association of
Machinists versus Street, so that you can't get around
this requirement by saying, oh well, we'll use the
objectors' funds for collective bargaining and we'll use
the others for that.
MR. WEST: Sure. Exactly. And that's --
and that's why I think that that interpretation of the
statute may be correct. But the problem we have here is
this is a statute, and why it's unconstitutional is this
is a statute that is saying this only with respect to a
particular kind of speech. It's saying the union may
collect a hundred percent of dues and it may spend them
in whatever way it deems appropriate for --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Doesn't that
objection apply whether it's opt in or opt out?
MR. WEST: No, it doesn't, Mr. Chief
Justice, because the -- the -- in -- in the Street and
Abood decisions, the Court has -- has said that there is
-- all -- has talked in terms of expenditures that are
not germane to collective bargaining.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it content
discrimination which subjects legislation to strict
scrutiny if the Government, Federal Government or a
State designates certain funds for use by school
districts to teach patriotism, American history,
something like that? Is that subject to strict
scrutiny?
MR. WEST: No, because this is Government
funding. This is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Now let's assume
it's not Government funding. Instead of doing that the
Government says, you will have authority to collect
money from certain people only for a particular purpose.
Is that content discrimination which calls into play
strict scrutiny?
MR. WEST: I believe it is, Justice Scalia,
because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't see why the one is
any worse than the other. The Government has a
particular purpose in mind and in one case it gives out
money with that purpose in mind, which discriminates of
course; in the other case it allows this extraordinary
power to exact funds from people, but only for certain
purposes. That's not the kind of content discrimination
that they calls strict scrutiny into play, it seems to
me.
MR. WEST: It's strict scrutiny if it's not
the Government acting as the speaker, and the Government
is acting here as --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Here is the Government
acting as a coercer. It's because of the Government
that you're allowed to get this money from these
non-union members.
MR. WEST: Well, I don't believe the Court
has ever put it quite that way in the Government speech
cases, the Government funding cases.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question on
your overinclusive, or underinclusive rather, argument?
Supposing the statute was broader and said the union may
not use any non-member agency fee collections for any
non-germane purpose at all without affirmative consent?
Would that solve all the constitutional problems?
MR. WEST: I think the problem here -- let
me say two things in response to that, Justice Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Could you just tell me yes
or no, and then explain?
MR. WEST: Certainly. Well, the answer is
yes and no. The answer is, if you're talking about --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE STEVENS: At least insofar as your
argument under inclusiveness, the answer would have to
be that was, that statute would be okay.
MR. WEST: If -- if the -- if you're -- if
what you're doing is talking about the, an election
statute like --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm talking about a
statute that the individuals say I don't want to spend
any more money, give any more money to the union than I
absolutely have to. And the legislature decides to
protect the right, that right by saying you cannot use
agency sock fees for any non-germane purpose. What's
wrong with that?
MR. WEST: That, Justice Stevens, if this is
what the state is saying with respect to the public
sector employees as to which it has the authority to
regulate the agency fee. This is perfectly
constitutional. This is the kind of --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If that's perfectly
constitutional, this is a fortiori okay.
MR. WEST: It's not --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And it's less of a burden
on the union and there's less protection to the
employee.
MR. WEST: No, it's not. It's a different
case for two reasons, Justice Stevens. First of all,
because it's content discriminatory. It's not saying
the -- it's not saying you -- we limit the agency fee to
the nonchargeable, the non-germane, or to the purposes
that are germane to collective bargaining. The State
can permissibly do that because it's making --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why isn't that a
content-based restriction? You've got to look at it and
see if it's germane.
MR. WEST: The purposes that -- the purposes
for which the -- that are being excluded in that case
are a wide variety of different kinds of speech and
non-speech activities, not only political speech but
public relations. Many courts have interpreted
organizing activities to be non-germane to collective
bargaining. Membership benefits that are not available,
non-members are put in that category. Donations to
charities. International activities. There's a whole
variety of union expenditures that the courts have held
are not germane to collective bargaining and cannot be
charged over a non-member's objection, and a State would
be perfectly free, as several states like Pennsylvania
and New Mexico have, to say our judgment is that our
interest in labor peace does not extend further than in
authorizing an agency fee that includes purposes germane
to collective bargaining.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm just curious below in
the opinion, I didn't notice in footnote 6, which I
hadn't taken in, that the court explicitly says that you
did not make any argument about underinclusiveness and
overinclusiveness with respect to other organizations,
corporations and so forth.
Now, did -- I can't recall, I just don't
recall. What you're saying now, I take it, is that the
word "election," you can't use it for elections, and
elections involve candidates and they also involve
ballot issues.
MR. WEST: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: And you're saying that the
real problem with this statute is that it throws in
ballot issues along with candidate elections.
MR. WEST: Well, there are two problems.
There's the concept -- I mean, there's --
JUSTICE BREYER: But on that first one, did
they discuss that at some length in the lower court
opinion? I don't --
MR. WEST: The lower court, no, did not
discuss the --
JUSTICE BREYER: So this is really a ground
that they haven't considered.
MR. WEST: What the Washington Supreme Court
held is that the -- what was argued in the Washington
Supreme Court generally is that this is a violation of
the union's right to engage in political advocacy.
JUSTICE BREYER: But this thing about the
ballot issue is not there.
MR. WEST: And the reason -- this is a
reason I think the Washington Supreme Court took note of
the fact of what the funds were spent on, on balloting
initiatives solely, not on candidate elections.
JUSTICE BREYER: In fact, you want to us
decide that question, and was there another one that --
you just said there were two reasons basically.
MR. WEST: Well, the two reasons why the
statute fails to constitute a compelling Government
interest are the overbroad extension to ballot
propositions, unlike the Federal law and any other State
law. And secondly, the underinclusiveness that this is
a statute that is ostensibly intended to protect the
integrity of the elections by ensuring that the funds
that organizations spend for political electoral
purposes represent the views of the people from whom
those funds were derived. And the -- what the State has
chosen to regulate to advance that interest is solely
people who already have the opportunity to prevent the
use of their funds for purposes they disagree with,
while not regulating at all other entities in which --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's the argument
that the State Supreme Court in footnote 6 expressly
said you did not raise.
MR. WEST: I think that would be a valid
argument if we were attempting to raise an equal
protection claim here, Mr. Chief Justice. That's not
what we're doing. What we're saying, we are making an
argument based on what the State Supreme Court held,
namely that this is a violation of the -- the union's
right to engage in political speech, and this is one of
the reasons for it. Granted, that particular
justification for the ruling was not argued below, but
this is not like we were attempting to argue equal
protection, a totally new basis.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: On which -- on what you
were arguing, you were very careful in your brief to say
funds lawfully possessed by the union, as distinguished
from what's in a corporate treasury or -- there is
something peculiar about this, and you recognized it by
saying we possess them, because if the non-member wants
it back, the non-member would be entitled. So it's not
like money in the corporate till.
MR. WEST: Well, it is, Justice Ginsburg, if
the -- this is why the purpose of the statute is so
important. If the purpose of the statute is to protect
the integrity of the elections by ensuring that what
organizations spend for political purposes represents
the views of those who contributed the money, then it's
very much to the point that there are other
organizations. For example, the Michigan Chamber of
Commerce --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You want us to consider
this case as if the First Amendment rights of non-union
members were not involved?
MR. WEST: Absolutely -- absolutely not,
Justice Kennedy. We recognize --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's been your whole
argument so far.
MR. WEST: Absolutely not. I'm sorry,
Justice Kennedy, but that's certainly not what I intend
to be saying. We recognize that the non-members have
First Amendment rights. We also recognize that those
rights are protected by the Hudson procedures which the
union uses. The non-members have the absolute right to
prevent the use of their funds not only for this kind of
electoral speech but for any kind of political
ideological speech and other nonchargeable activities
with which they disagree simply by sending in a letter.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So it's a First Amendment
right that is waived by failing to make a timely
objection.
MR. WEST: Well, it's not that a right is
waived. What it is --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It's gone under your
theory.
MR. WEST: No. It's -- Justice Stevens,
it's what the right is. The constitutional right is a
right against being required to -- to engage in
compelled speech.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which no longer exists if
you don't make a timely objection.
MR. WEST: No, you have the -- but that
would be just like -- like the solicitor general on the
-- the license plate case. Someone who receives in the
mail the license plate that says "Live Free or Die" or
"Taxation Without Representation" and puts it on his car
is not waiving a constitutional right by --
JUSTICE ALITO: It's not exactly the same
situation. These are teachers who have chosen not to
join the Washington Education Association; isn't that
right?
MR. WEST: These are teachers who have not
joined the Washington Education --
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't it overwhelmingly
likely that they, if you spoke to them and you said
would you like to give money to the union to spend on
elections, they would say no?
MR. WEST: I absolutely disagree with you,
Justice Alito, because keep in mind --
JUSTICE ALITO: Explain to me the thinking
of somebody who chooses not to join, the 5 percent who
choose not to join, and yet they would like to make this
contribution. Now maybe there's some, but what would be
the thinking of such a person?
MR. WEST: It's not asking them to make a
contribution. It's asking them, is it okay with you if
your money is used for this purpose. But keep in mind
what the money is being used for here.
JUSTICE ALITO: What's the difference
between that?
MR. WEST: The money is being used --
JUSTICE ALITO: What's the difference
between saying would you like to make a contribution,
and would you like to allow us to use money that we
possess for our purposes rather than returning it to us?
What's the difference between those two?
MR. WEST: Well, whether there is a
difference or not, Justice Alito, the point is the union
here is using this money for purposes that it has every
reason to believe is in the interest of the vast
majority of teachers, including --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well surely, they
get to make that decision, don't they? Under the
statute, it's their decision whether or not -- you don't
get to say, well, this is in your interests, or whether
you'd want to spend the money or not.
MR. WEST: No, but I'm responding to the
suggestion that there should be some kind of presumption
that they would, would decline to authorize this.
That's -- the question you raised, Mr. Chief Justice, is
exactly the question before the Court, whether the State
can, constitutionally can insist that the union obtain
affirmative authorization for this particular type of
speech and for no other type of speech. Let me -- let
me suggest --
JUSTICE ALITO: I still don't understand the
thinking of these hypothetical people. If I'm a union
member, I get various benefits. If I choose not to be a
union member, I don't get those benefits. Why would I
choose to give up the benefits of union membership and
yet want to allow the union to spend my money for its
political purposes?
MR. WEST: Well, maybe Mr. -- Justice Alito,
if you knew that what the union was spending its money
for was to improve, to increase cost of living
adjustments for teachers or to reduce class size for
teachers, or to enact tax levies in local school
districts --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is this all hypothetical,
Mr. West, or is there any empirical evidence about what
the people who are non-union members, if they had their
druthers, would they say not a penny more goes into the
union till than we are forced to put there? Is there
any empirical evidence that divides up the universe of
people who don't, deliberately don't join unions?
MR. WEST: No. Justice Ginsburg, there's a
lot of speculation on both sides. I don't think there's
any empirical evidence, but there is plenty of reason to
think that there are many reasons that people choose not
to join the union, whether from a free rider motivation,
whether from just not being a joiner, any variety of
reasons. Some of them may be --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you're free
under this system to send them the same sort of
materials you send about your PAC and say we do all
sorts of good things with the money from people who opt
in, you should opt in.
MR. WEST: Yeah.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you want to do
it without giving them that opportunity.
MR. WEST: Well, the question is whether the
State can compel us to, to obtain that authorization for
this limited type of speech.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Only if the State has given
you the power to exact the money from these people.
That changes everything. If this was money that they
had contributed themselves, you'd have a different
argument, but the State compels them to give you that
money and the State says however, you will not use this
money for this purpose without their consent.
MR. WEST: It doesn't change everything,
Justice Scalia, precisely for the reasons that you
discussed in your opinion for the court in RAV versus
St. Paul, the St. Paul cross-burning case, where you
pointed out that, that the greater includes the lesser
argument does not apply where you have content
discrimination. The State could justifiably ban all
symbols and displays that involve fighting words, but it
could not single out a particular --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That brings us back to the
question I asked earlier and I suggested in my answer to
that I don't think it's content discrimination of the
sort that triggers strict scrutiny when the government
gives money for a particular purpose only and not for
other purposes, and I also don't think it's content
discrimination of the sort that triggers strict scrutiny
when the government allows a private organization to use
governmental power to exact money from people for a
particular purpose only. That's a different ball game.
MR. WEST: Justice Scalia, imagine, if I may
take a little bit starker example, imagine that what the
government said in the statute that the union must
obtain affirmative authorization if it is going to use
agency fee funds to support Democratic candidates, but
not if it's going to support Republican candidates.
Obviously it couldn't do that.
JUSTICE BREYER: And I see that you've put a
lot of weight on this argument.
MR. WEST: And that -- it goes further than
this. That's viewpoint discrimination. But this is
content discrimination and the Court has held in
Consolidated Edison and a number of other cases that
that is also a constitutional problem.
JUSTICE BREYER: What you're saying right
now, if it is, is ballots versus candidates under the
word "election."
MR. WEST: Exactly.
JUSTICE BREYER: And that has a lot of
implications for all kinds of campaign finance law that
has nothing to do, I think, with unions.
MR. WEST: Exactly.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the lower court didn't
consider it, and is this open now, if it's going back
for other things such as the State Constitution, for
them to consider this matter on remand?
MR. WEST: I think it would be open to them
to consider. I also think it's a matter that when we
get to that point at least --
JUSTICE BREYER: And I don't know, perhaps
you don't know, what the implication of a decision say
in your favor here would have for Vermont's campaign
finance law or California's or some other.
MR. WEST: Perhaps, but it's certainly true
that on this, at least on this point of the lack of any
compelling justification for restricting entities'
contributions and expenditures in support of or in
opposition to ballot propositions, the law, this Court's
law, is fully clearly on that point.
It's our submission, Mr. Chief Justice, that
what you have here is a content-based restriction on
WEA's ability to engage in political speech on issues of
educational policy that are of vital importance to the
70,000 teachers that it represents.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could the State have a
restriction requiring affirmative authorization for all
union expenditures that fall within the Abood-Machinist
line of cases?
MR. WEST: Yes. If this were --
particularly if this were --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If this were across the
board as to all First Amendment rights an objecting
member has, then the statute would be void -- would be
valid, rather?
MR. WEST: Certainly if this were done in
the statute that authorized the agency fee in the first
place.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, it's done in this
statute.
MR. WEST: If it's done in this statute, the
problem that would remain, Justice Kennedy, is this is
an election law that presumably has to be justified on
the basis of whether it promotes the integrity of
elections. And when you have --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, my hypothetical is
that there's a Washington statute or a Washington
constitutional referendum provision, initiative
provision, which says that as to all protected speech
for non- union members who have moneys taken out, there
must be affirmative authorization.
MR. WEST: The State could do that, at least
if it limited it to the public sector, where the State
has the authority to authorize the amount of the agency
fee. I believe the State could do that. The State
could certainly -- some people have talked about the
size of the Hudson notice. The State could impose
requirements that the notice be clearer, that it be
shorter. The state could impose that affirmative
authorization requirement. The State could limit the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Back to your example about
the political party saying you can't use it for
Democrats, what if they said, as they might have in the
1940s, you can use it for anybody except communist
candidates?
MR. WEST: Well, I think that would be a
problem, too. And that's --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Okay.
MR. WEST: That would be viewpoint
discriminatory, but here we have a legislative statute
that, that it's content discriminatory, that can't be
justified as a compelling State interest to promote the
integrity of the elections, and we believe the judgment
of the Washington Supreme Court should be affirmed.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. West.
General McKenna, you have 7 minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT M. MCKENNA, ESQ.
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS
MR. MCKENNA: Mr. Chief Justice, thank you.
First of all, I wanted to get back to a
question raised by Justice Breyer concerning whether
they get their money back. I took your question to
refer to a hypothetical, but allow me to address the
real circumstances in this case by referring to the
joint appendix at 210-212. These are the pages covering
the permanent injunction that was entered by the trial
court. Under that permanent injunction, the WEA shall
return to all agency fee payers who have not
affirmatively authorized the use of their fees for
expenditures, and it lays out the means of doing that.
For the first 2 years there's an agreed-upon amount.
For the next 3 years of the injunction there's another
amount. But they do get their money back under that
injunction.
Referring to the issue of whether they waive
or not, under the current process used by the WEA,
referring to JA-198, which is the letter sent out on
September 15, 2000, by the WEA to the non-members,
you'll note the statement, quote: "If such written
objection has not been postmarked by October 16, 2000,
you will waive your ability to object." The State of
Washington's position is that non-members should not be
required to say no twice. They said no when they chose
not to join the union. The union's position now is,
well, we get to use your money for political purposes
unless you say no a second time. That does not seem to
be a reasonable default position to take and certainly
we believe the State --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the State of
Washington seems to think that's fine for everything
other than election expenses.
MR. MCKENNA: Yes, Your Honor, in terms of
Section 760 the State of Washington does think that's
fine because of the purpose of the statute and the
purpose of Section 760, the purpose being to protect the
integrity of the elections by several different means
involving protecting --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, do you see an
underlying constitutional problem as to non-election
expenditures that are still political expenditures?
MR. MCKENNA: We don't take a position on
whether there's a constitutional problem with regard to
non- germane expenditures, Your Honor. But we do
believe --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Didn't we take one
in Abood?
MR. MCKENNA: I'm sorry?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Didn't we take a
position in Abood?
MR. MCKENNA: What I meant was --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose the way
the statute works, you have to opt in for the election
expenditures, but you have to have a right to opt out
for other non-germane.
MR. MCKENNA: Yes. Your Honor, the Chief
Justice is correct, of course. What I thought the
question was about was the question of whether or not
all, all non-germane expenses must be opt-in, must be
provided. That's all I meant. You're absolutely
correct. Of course, in your decisions opt-out is
satisfactory, and we're not saying that opt-out is not
satisfactory here as far as the State's position is
concerned. But what we are saying is that the State has
the right to impose this additional requirement of
affirmative authorization.
JUSTICE STEVENS: What do you say about his
hypothetical involving Democrats versus Republicans?
MR. MCKENNA: Well, Your Honor, that would
certainly seem to be viewpoint discrimination, and it
would implicate --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, he says, well, this
is content discrimination. Is that --
MR. MCKENNA: Your Honor, we do not agree
that this is content, content discrimination. This is
content neutral. 760 establishes a procedure, that is
to say a requirement that must be met before the money
may be used.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, but it's content in
the sense that only some speech has to be affirmatively
authorized.
MR. MCKENNA: Yes, Your Honor, that
additional affirmative authorization does apply to this
category of speech, influencing an election or operating
a political committee. But we don't believe that it is
problematic constitutionally any more than the argument
of Taxpayers With Representations in the Reagan case
was, where they argued that they had a constitutional
right to receive tax deductible contributions and use
them for lobbying. The Court found to the contrary.
And indeed, Initiative 134 is about protecting
individuals. It's about protecting individuals in
Section 760. It says in the intent section --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Can I just go back to, you
mentioned my question.
MR. MCKENNA: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Your point of your answer
to his hypothetical is, well, the viewpoint
discrimination would be impermissible, but the content
discrimination is permissible?
MR. MCKENNA: If it is content
discrimination, Your Honor, we believe it is
permissible, yes, sir. And if it were viewpoint -- in
the hypothetical, if there were viewpoint discrimination
that would not implicate any constitutional right of the
union, but it may very well implicate the Southworth
interests of the non-member fee payers.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it content? I
mean, it doesn't say which way you're trying to
influence the election.
MR. MCKENNA: We don't believe it is
content-based, Your Honor. As I said, we don't believe
it is, because it's any election of any kind.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the content means a
category of speech as opposed to what is the political
position you're taking.
MR. MCKENNA: Yes, that is it's only in
regard to influencing elections or operating a political
committee, which is a second.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I thought that that
was content. You could do it, say, in the press, but
you couldn't do it over the air.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's my understanding,
too. I think you got to get out of it some other way.
I mean, you've got to say it's content but it doesn't
apply when it's the government contributing money or it
doesn't apply when you're applying it to money that's
being coerced by the government.
MR. MCKENNA: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: If that's yes, then the
category here is election speech. If you're going to
call a statute that treats election speech especially,
then all of campaign finance regulation would fall in
that category. And if you're going to use that
distinction to say strict scrutiny applies, then strict
scrutiny would apply to all campaign finance regulation.
And courts never to my knowledge apply strict scrutiny
to campaign finance regulation because there are speech
interests on both sides of the equation.
MR. MCKENNA: Yes, Your Honor. Of course,
we believe that --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm glad you said yes to me
because that implies a no to the last question.
(Laughter.)
MR. MCKENNA: Yes, Your Honor, I understand
your question.
(Laughter.)
MR. MCKENNA: And we believe that -- we
believe of course that Section 760 is not subject to
strict scrutiny, it is subject at most to a rationale
basis; and that clearly there is a rationale basis for
the State in this case to require the affirmative
authorization of non-member fee payers.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can you get to the point
you were about to make, what the purpose of the thing
is?
MR. MCKENNA: Well, yes, Your Honor. Your
Honor, the Supreme Court of Washington found a purpose
of the entire law, Initiative 134, to be to protect
election integrity. But 760 is one means of achieving
that purpose by means of protecting individual
interests. Similarly, Section 680 of this law, which, I
apologize, is not in the joint appendix, but it's RCW
4217-680, which requires positive checkoff before an
employer may deduct PAC contributions for any employee.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I just -- I'm sorry.
May I just take you back to the point of the objective
being protection of election integrity. As I understand
it, so far as the protection of election integrity is
concerned, with respect to these contributions, that is
simply the obverse side or the flip side, if you will,
of protecting the right of the dissenting union member
or the non-joined -- strike that -- the non-union
worker, to control the use of the funds that would be
used for the political purposes. The one is simply the
obverse of the other. Do you agree?
MR. MCKENNA: Yes, Your Honor. We believe
they are two sides of the same coin.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So by articulating that the
election integrity is a purpose, the Washington Supreme
Court should not be understood as excluding the
protection of the non-member workers' interests?
MR. MCKENNA: Yes, Your Honor. I would
agree.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:08 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
18:7 advocacy 24:7 ambiguous 44:7 52:3 47:18
49:17 26:16,21 28:11 11:23 12:9,10 53:21,22 54:6 authorization
31:13 11:11 15:7 4:23 11:17 approach 30:20 42:4 43:18
27:16 29:15 12:19 13:18 appropriate 44:24 46:16
42:4 44:24 18:5,9,13 19:3 area 15:19,24 52:3 54:23
56:9 51:11 52:3 24:23,25 25:1 argue 38:4 47:18
33:24 51:25 American 31:20 arguing 38:7 authorizing
40:19 affirmed 48:13 amici 16:23 argument 1:16 35:14
agency 3:15 amicus 1:23 2:7 2:2,5,11 3:3,8 authors 7:14
22:21 24:13 26:24 47:18 49:7,9 23:4 24:1 33:3 available 15:11
ago 8:16 analysis 16:1 48:18 52:6 avoidance 17:6
39:13 51:19 55:21 anomalies 18:20 55:24 awry 22:6
52:3
48:24 agreements 3:13 33:12,13,16 9:16 10:5 10:17,19 11:2
AL 1:3 anticipated 6:14 9:19 10:3 38:12 44:11
6:4 18:10 anybody 48:3 assume 11:15 48:21,23 49:9
40:15,20,21 appealing 5:11 assumed 19:7 balance 14:22
42:14 appearance 8:4 30:4 ball 44:20
41:10 42:12 1:18 attempting 20:22 24:16
allowed 32:22 20:13,13 23:3 Attorney 1:19 36:20 37:5
brings 44:11 33:1,1 45:8 37:13 40:10 compelled 3:16
31:15 broader 22:4,18 category 35:6 48:25 19:15,16 25:5
35:5,9 33:4 52:4 53:10 claim 23:15 25:12 39:25
Brown 11:12 54:1,4 26:19 37:22 compelling 6:22
14:16,18 18:12 15:11 25:11 clear 7:13 22:2 29:11,11 37:4
burdens 24:6 certain 5:20 clearer 47:22 compels 43:24
32:3,13 23:1 46:9 30:15
2:4,7,10 9:21 10:2 25:4 26:9 15:3 16:15,20 concerned 20:24
3:9 15:1 California's 27:13,15 28:25 17:10,18,24 51:9 55:15
28:3 46:3 30:8 33:12 18:15 19:23 concerning
call 17:23,24 39:6 46:4,25 20:21 21:3,16 48:22
9:9 12:13 calls 32:4,15 51:15 codified 4:6 12:16 17:7
41:16 campaign 6:10 Chamber 38:21 coerced 53:23 condition 4:1
48:12 22:12,14 24:8 change 44:2 coercer 32:21 11:9,10 13:4
50:15 24:18 45:15 changes 43:22 coin 55:23 13:16
53:6,7 46:2 54:3,6,8 characterizati... collect 13:11,12 conditions 3:18
candidate 10:10 9:24 16:13 23:9 11:5,14
14:13 29:8,14 chargeable 28:8 31:7 32:2 confront 16:25
35:25 44:25 charities 35:7 collecting 13:3 consequence
care 7:11 Chief 3:3,10 collections 33:5 25:19 38:23
10:1,4 8:23,25 9:14 31:9,11 34:21 35:15 considered
10:7 13:21 16:12 46:10 48:15,20 commingling consolidated 3:5
11:1 17:1 18:20,23 50:9,16,19,22 27:3 45:8
36:3,8 20:7 26:15 51:1 53:3 56:6 committee 3:22 constituent 18:4
32:10,12 34:15 choose 14:10 11:9 52:5 constitute 37:4
34:25 38:24 28:9,15 40:23 53:14 constitution
18:6 38:19 43:23 37:18,24 42:2 deductions 51:20 52:19,20
contributing 44:4 45:7,18 20:16 52:22,24
12:6,22 contribution 52:10 55:3 default 49:23 34:16 48:9,10
16:9 22:14 40:24 56:1 definition 26:1 discuss 36:9,12
41:2,9 courts 17:15 degree 26:11 discussed 44:4
19:1 contributions 18:3 35:3,8 deliberately disparate 23:4
20:6 3:24 5:15 7:20 54:7 43:1 displays 44:9
26:13 7:21 15:13 court's 10:2 Democratic disregard 8:18
27:4,20 20:15,16,18 12:16 16:1 44:25 dissenting 28:4
33:7 22:19 46:7 17:12 46:8 Democrats 48:2 55:17
39:23 52:9 55:10,15 covered 21:19 51:13 distinction 7:15
45:9 contributors covering 49:1 Department 54:5
50:10,13 4:14 create 27:20,24 1:21 distinguished
control 55:19 critical 29:5 derived 37:12 38:8
14:12 44:5 determination 42:19
38:13 cure 27:3 determine 5:18 divination 12:13
42:3 6:12 15:1 determining doing 22:3,16
corporations curious 35:16 25:15 32:1 33:19
36:2 51:2,6 41:5,8,12,14 druthers 42:23
54:19 Davenport 1:3 43:23 44:20 31:7
32:4,14 3:11 4:15 5:6,9 18:17 difficult 18:21
44:7,13 5:18 6:1,22 day 21:7 19:21 E
45:7 7:21,21 8:1,7,9 deal 27:25 direct 21:13 E 2:1 3:1,1
51:18,20 9:5,14,15,17 dealt 22:11 direction 25:18 earlier 44:12
9:19,20,21 debate 21:5 directly 9:18 easier 17:20
53:3 10:1,5 11:12 decide 37:1 disagree 37:15 20:17
11:19,22,23,24 decided 9:6 39:14 40:19 easily 14:19
34:22 15:15,18,22 decision 15:23 discretion 15:21 Edison 45:8
53:7 16:3,16 17:3,6 30:21 41:19,20 25:15 Education 1:6
19:4,15 22:6 decisions 13:2 32:11 40:11,14
35:18 36:9,11 deduct 55:10 44:13,17 45:6 27:4 28:2
entered 49:2 29:13 31:14 13:12 25:13 form 13:24 14:3
entirety 21:11 49:6 50:11,11 28:8,19 30:18 19:22 20:8,14
4:7,8,15 23:5,8 24:19 expense 10:14 35:14 44:25 forth 35:21
5:1,13,16 37:16 46:6 10:15 21:17 47:1,19 49:4 fortiori 34:9
11:8 20:25 entitle 11:7 expenses 13:14 53:2 54:23 found 4:5 5:6
25:20 entitled 27:12 21:12,15 50:2 fees 3:16,20 6:23 7:21 9:7,15,17
33:19 38:12 51:4 11:7,8,13 15:6 9:19,22 52:10
45:12 envisioning expert 18:8 16:6 24:13 55:3
50:2,23 10:21 explain 33:11 34:1 49:5 four 27:16
53:5,8 equal 4:12 13:12 40:21 fighting 44:9 free 8:18 16:8
55:5,13 28:2 37:21 explicitly 35:18 finance 22:12 19:14 35:11
38:4 expressly 37:18 24:9 25:5,5 40:6 43:6,9
21:2 equivalent 28:9 extension 37:5 54:3,6,8 fully 25:7 46:9
era 15:21 extent 16:7 financing 25:11 fund 22:22
36:5 escrow 30:6 extraction 16:6 28:24 30:17
37:9 especially 54:2 19:6 find 10:1,3 funded 3:24
40:18 ESQ 1:19,24 2:3 extraordinary 17:12 20:10 funding 31:24
48:12 2:6,9,12 14:25 32:12 finding 10:2 32:1 33:1
53:13 48:18 fine 7:7,7 50:1,5 funds 4:1 15:8
24:11 51:21 fact 5:13,15 9:22 12:19 13:18 27:21 28:24
37:10 ET 1:3 12:9,10 13:20 16:4,5,14,17 29:7,15,18,21
everybody 22:23 26:4 18:4,4,9,13 30:1,2,12,16
43:4 evidence 42:21 failing 39:16 24:6,13,20,23 32:13 36:23
exact 32:13 fair 4:12 18:16 25:12,22,25 38:8 39:11
25:4 34:5 exactly 30:20 fairness 8:4 34:15 36:8 further 10:19
9:10 13:22 far 13:5 29:12 flip 55:16 45:5
44:22 47:25 55:14 focused 20:22 G
38:1 excluding 56:1 Federal 9:3,4,24 follow 8:19 9:21 game 44:20
46:12 exclusively 22:7 15:20 16:22 26:8 GARY 1:3
16:20 governmental 7:22 13:6,24 inclusiveness 50:7 55:5,13
9:20 29:11 13:25 14:19 33:16 55:14,25
20:20 44:19 16:12 20:5,19 increase 42:16 intend 8:9 39:6
30:12 government's 20:25 21:20 indefinitely 30:7 intended 6:3,8
48:16 16:7 25:8 26:2,4 independent 7:14 37:8
Granted 38:2 39:9 47:21 27:20 intent 4:9,16 5:5
15:9 ground 36:13 42:8,20 47:10 16:3 30:18 4:24 5:2 13:17
31:15 guess 16:17 48:24 51:13 55:6 16:8 19:4,5
35:9 52:18,24 individuals 4:11 21:23,24 24:10
50:14 H 4:18,22 5:14 24:15 26:10,18
28:18,20 19:12 ideological 25:6 33:22 52:12,12 37:5,13 41:16
29:1,25 hand 21:10 39:13 influence 3:21 48:11
42:20 happens 10:18 Illinois 7:18,22 4:12,13 11:8 interested 9:5
49:25 10:19 13:7 53:5 interesting 7:2
hard 21:8 imagine 18:6 influencing 52:4 interests 4:4,7
42:11 17:24 29:1,3 impact 21:13 infringe 26:12 41:21 53:2
hate 10:9,10 impermissible infringement 54:9 55:7 56:2
heard 8:25 impingements infringes 26:14 30:21 35:7
44:15 30:20 35:8 implicate 51:16 5:5,19 7:14 9:6 12:23
28:24 helping 5:14 45:15 initiatives 22:12 30:11 35:3
herring 21:6 implies 54:13 36:24 interpreting 8:1
45:5 hold 6:2 17:21 46:13 49:3,8,10 intuition 12:1
29:25 6:6,19 7:9,12 38:16 4:19 44:9
45:1,19 8:5,24 9:10,14 impose 13:4 insist 42:3 involved 25:2
9:25 10:13,17 47:21,23 51:10 insofar 33:15 38:25
43:12 12:8,14,20,24 imposes 15:5 instructive 51:13
15:20 50:3,14 51:1 improve 42:16 integrity 3:23 12:16,20 13:7
31:18,18 51:14,19 52:2 improving 22:4 4:7,8,17 5:12 15:5 16:2,12
32:1,2,9 52:22 53:7,24 include 14:11 5:16 13:17 17:8 23:13
54:10,15 55:2 included 22:8 20:24 21:23 27:24 28:7
33:1 55:3,22 56:3 includes 35:14 22:5,9 24:10 36:20 49:11
44:14,18 Hudson 6:21 44:6 37:9 38:17 issues 10:20
53:21,23 7:17,17,18,19 including 41:17 47:8 48:12 16:5 28:13
46:12 38:6,14,23 45:25 46:1 limitation 15:6 2:3,12 3:7,8,10
40:1,9 47:17 5:24 6:2,5,19
45:3,10,14,18 laid 11:5 living 42:16 48:20 50:3,12
49:20 46:21 47:3,6 7:13 8:15,20 28:12 52:10 51:14,19 52:2
55:8 50:19,22 51:2 54:14,17 longer 40:1 55:22 56:3
48:12 53:9,15,18,25 15:19,24 17:21 23:1 34:22 21:17 23:11
4:20,25 55:24 56:6 22:21 24:9 lot 5:22 22:16 36:7 53:4,20
justifiably 44:8 28:20 29:5 43:3 45:4,14 meaningful 7:15
6:4,7 justification 37:6,7 45:15 lower 36:9,11 means 3:23 4:8
7:10,24 38:3 46:6 46:3,8,9 47:7 45:18 13:17 25:10
justified 16:6,7 55:4,7 49:6 50:7 53:9
10:7 24:12 26:17 lawfully 38:8 M 55:5,6
11:1,15 47:7 48:11 laws 29:6 M 1:19,24 2:3,9 meant 50:21
lays 49:6 2:12 3:8 24:1 51:5
15:3 K leave 27:9 48:18 mechanism
17:4,15 keep 30:6 40:20 left 20:25 Machinists 25:22
18:10 41:3 legal 8:6,8 30:22 member 7:6
19:20,23 Kennedy 8:11 legislation 21:25 mail 40:6 10:8 42:9,10
21:4,14 8:18,22 9:3,11 31:17 main 7:3 46:23 55:17
24:4 9:23 12:15,21 legislative 28:12 maintaining members 11:18
25:14 17:4 24:20,24 48:9 16:8 14:9,11 15:13
26:3 25:14,18,25 legislature majority 41:17 20:14 24:21,22
27:1,8 38:23 39:2,3,6 20:21 33:24 making 29:25 32:23 38:25
46:15,21 47:3 length 36:9 34:20 37:23 42:22 47:14
47:6,10 lesser 44:6 manner 11:24 membership
kind 10:17 31:6 letter 14:5 20:11 22:12 23:18 35:5
31:9 32:14 34:7 39:14 49:13 materials 43:11 42:11
39:11,12 41:24 let's 11:15 31:25 matter 1:15 8:12 member's 18:11
33:2 53:8 levies 42:18 9:6 16:9 17:2 mentioned 8:25
kinds 28:13 35:1 license 19:12,14 17:21 18:3 52:15
45:15 19:18 40:5,6 19:1 45:21,23 met 14:19 51:22
35:16 knew 42:15 limit 15:10 18:7 56:9 Mexico 35:12
know 6:4,5,5,16 24:13 29:7 Maynard 19:12 Michigan 38:21
37:17,22 17:16 27:24 34:17 47:24 McKenna 1:19 mind 32:10,11
41:3 nonmember 8:3 35:10 39:17 opt-in 13:8 part 11:17 19:6
17:5 nonmembers objective 55:12 19:2 20:3 25:11
7:19 23:16 objectors 28:14 21:19 27:10 particular 23:12
non-germane 12:5 16:23 18:11 38:2 42:4
21:11 33:6 obtain 3:19 51:7 particularly
10:7,14 50:25 51:4 43:18 44:24 3:8 14:25 24:1 party 48:1
non-joined obverse 55:16 order 7:20 14:10 passed 22:13
55:18 55:21 17:7 25:22 patriotism
18:10,11 non-member obvious 13:1 organization 31:20
28:10 3:14 20:23 Obviously 45:2 3:25 15:12 Paul 1:21 2:6
33:5 38:11,12 October 49:16 28:22 44:18 14:25 44:5,5
38:13 53:2 54:23 oh 8:19 30:23 organizational pay 3:15 6:22
40:17 56:2 okay 31:25 4:13 paycheck 23:16
non-members 33:17 34:9 organizations payers 25:13
42:12,15 3:20 11:13 41:2 48:7 6:18 35:20 26:25 27:14
13:19 14:9 old 20:25 37:10 38:18,21 28:19 30:18
15:8 16:14 Olympia 1:19 organizing 35:4 49:4 53:2
49:9,21 35:6 39:7,10 open 45:19,22 ostensibly 37:8 54:23
53:21,22 49:14,18 operate 3:21 overall 5:5 22:2 payor 7:7
non-union 11:18 opinion 6:3 33:3 Pennsylvania
38:24 23:2 35:17 35:20 penny 42:23
35:17 47:21,22 53:10 PAC 14:7,8,10 42:8,22 43:1,5
O 16:10 18:25 packet 13:24,25 40:22
50:14 object 6:17 20:17,18 21:20 20:7,19 perfectly 34:6,8
39:13 objecting 46:22 43:13 50:23,24 20:13 permanent 49:2
19:14 25:7 opting 25:10 parcel 19:6,13 permissible
27:4 31:10 option 17:2 parity 28:2 29:13 52:20,23
39:12 42:13 47:6 48:6 provide 14:14 51:3,3 52:15
18:13 49:21 50:11 problematic 29:11 questions 14:21
23:3 28:17 30:17 procedure 51:21 22:1 47:12,13 quote 49:15
2:4,8 49:23 50:12,20 proceed 25:1 35:3 47:17 R 3:1
3:9 15:2 51:8 53:11 process 4:15,18 public's 24:10 radically 18:5
18:17,23 positive 55:9 5:13,16 11:21 purpose 4:21 Railway 6:20
possess 38:11 14:15 15:18 5:18 7:1,1,3 raise 28:1 37:19
21:1 postmarked prohibiting 13:6 32:11 33:6 raises 16:4 28:6
47:2 49:16 prohibits 29:14 34:1 38:15,16 rationale 54:20
9:1 23:8,11,13 promotes 47:8 44:20 50:5,6,6RAV 44:4
32:13 43:21 properly 25:21 54:25 55:3,6 RCW 4:6 55:8
40:5,6 practical 9:16 propositions purposes 5:5 reading 8:8
precisely 44:3 37:6 46:8 22:18 25:20 Reagan 52:7
press 53:16 6:23 7:14 34:18,24,24 realized 16:18
16:21,25 presumption 26:9 27:12 42:13 44:16 reason 28:5 29:9
38:20 41:24 33:25 37:8 49:21 55:20 29:10,22 36:21
45:24 presumptively 38:16 50:6 put 19:10 22:1 36:22 41:16
52:17 19:17 55:4 30:7 32:25 43:4
55:12 prevent 37:14 protected 25:7 35:6 42:24 reasonable 13:4
primary 4:21 protecting 7:6 p.m 56:8 37:2,3 38:2
principally 16:2 24:10 25:25 Q rebating 30:17
10:10 problem 7:22 52:11,12 55:6 16:10 18:16,16 2:11 48:18
15:9,11 15:25 17:13 55:17 18:21 20:2 recall 17:25
24:7 23:21,21 27:20 protection 34:12 26:13 27:6,14 35:22,23
26:16,21 28:1,6 29:22 37:22 38:5 33:2 37:1 42:1 receive 30:5
36:18 29:23 31:3 55:13,14 56:2 42:2 43:17 52:9
Representations 16:15 satisfy 30:8 sector 34:5
38:18 46:14 right 5:24 16:10 30:23 31:5,6 see 32:8 34:23
38:10 Republicans 20:2,4 21:3,10 34:17 35:23 seeks 3:25
request 15:22 24:7 25:4,7 38:11 39:7 segregate 27:2
required 7:19 33:25,25 36:18 says 8:12,22 9:5 22:22 27:6
30:20 39:24 39:18,23,23,24 32:2 35:18 segregates 30:4
47:24 51:10,22 rights 4:3 8:3 Scalia 4:20,25 send 6:9 13:25
22:22 47:22 15:17 16:1,2 11:15 12:4 20:11 43:10,11
49:11,13 16:18,22 55:9 22:3 24:21,23 18:15 21:14 sense 21:18
53:13 respect 8:5 29:4 46:22 44:21 53:18 20:2 22:21
Respondent 48:18 26:21,23 serve 24:14
37:16 responding 14:23 23:24 31:19 42:18 serves 3:22 4:4
response 33:9 34:21 37:17 31:22 32:5,15 serving 4:8
15:23 48:15 50:9,16 54:5,6,7,20 shop 3:15 16:4
20:20 24:16,16 46:6 56:6 23:11 49:22 shorter 47:23
24:22 restriction role 4:19 53:14 side 7:3 55:16
26:23 S 12:9,12 13:23 significant 16:4
39:14 54:1,2,8 2:7 15:1,20 submission 24:5 system 28:21
spend 6:12,15 16:11 25:14,17 46:10 43:10
31:7 33:22 23:3 24:13 subset 21:12 T 2:1,1
spent 10:10 11:16,22 12:2 suggest 14:17 47:14
spoke 40:16 13:8,8,10,19 42:6 47:20
40:4 starker 44:22 27:25 29:9 41:24 33:21
17:2 33:17,20,22 44:25 45:1 targets 22:24
55:11 6:8 7:25 9:4,5 38:15,16 41:20 supporting 1:23 Taxation 40:7
12:11 13:2,4 47:1,4,5,11 suppose 8:12 teach 31:20
18:8 22:15 4:1 11:14 Supreme 1:1,16 40:10,13 41:17
28:5 23:8,20 24:15 Stevens 16:15 4:15 5:6,9,18 42:17,18 46:14
30:3 25:24 26:3,6,8 33:2,9,10,15 5:25 7:25 8:6 team 6:11
26:9,17 28:7 33:21 34:3,8 9:14,19,21 tell 33:10
35:10 37:6,12 39:20,22 47:25 11:22 12:5,11 term 12:11
24:12,16 47:24 48:11 32:5,15,17 55:3,25 48:14,15,20
25:12 49:17,24,25 44:14,17 54:5 sure 10:20 22:18 56:5,6
31:6 50:4 51:9 54:5,7,20 31:1 theory 39:21
35:1,2 54:22 strike 55:18 surely 41:18 thick 14:1 19:22
39:12,13 stated 4:7,9 5:6 struck 15:15 surprised 4:20 thing 36:19
42:5,5 19:8 22:7 subject 3:17 surprising 22:10 54:25
46:12 statement 14:5 21:19 27:10 suspicious 21:25 things 33:9
45:20 21:16 46:4 30:8,11,15 variety 35:1,8 Washington 1:6
14:6 trying 10:22 34:12 35:8 various 42:9 1:24 3:4,5,6,12
16:19,20 22:3 53:4 38:8 39:10 vast 41:16 3:18 4:15 7:4
17:2,13 twice 49:19 40:17 41:14 Vermont's 46:2 8:6,12,13
18:17,20 two 19:24 22:25 42:3,8,10,11 versus 3:4,5 11:19,22 12:4
19:2,8 24:11 33:9 42:12,15,24 23:5 30:22 13:10 17:3,4,5
34:15 36:6 43:6 44:23 44:4 45:11 17:11,16,21
37:2,3 41:12 46:17 47:14 51:13 18:3,8,22 22:6
55:23 49:20 53:1 view 17:9 22:14,15 23:2
type 28:15 42:4 55:17 viewpoint 45:6 23:20 25:9,21
27:19 42:5 43:19 unions 3:13,19 48:8 51:15 36:15,16,22
31:2 33:8 6:15 13:22 52:18,23,24 40:11,14 47:11
37:20 U 14:18 18:12 views 37:11 47:11 48:13
44:13 Uh 24:23 22:24 23:5,15 38:19 50:1,4 55:3,25
45:16,22 unconstitutio... 24:18 43:1 violate 4:2 11:2 Washington's
48:5 12:7 29:10 45:16 violating 30:14 49:18
53:19 31:4 union's 3:16 4:2 violation 19:7 way 12:22 13:22
42:8 24:6 12:19 15:6,10 37:25 30:13,15 31:8
30:19 33:3 36:18 37:25 void 46:23 WEA 11:7 13:23
53:15 underinclusiv... 49:20 voluntary 3:24 14:7,8 49:3,12
27:15 50:10 universe 42:25 17:22 Wednesday
53:18 25:21 26:22,23 West 1:24 2:9
27:12 41:10 43:25 39:16,19 26:23 27:5,13
30:12 4:1 10:9,12 48:3 49:5,21 want 6:9,12 28:25 29:3,19
11:7 13:3,11 52:9 54:4 28:11 33:22 30:3 31:1,11
21:1 23:16,18 v 1:5,10 9:13 48:21 36:6,11,15,21
27:2 28:9,24 valid 4:1 37:20 19:21 38:11 39:1,5,18,22
$ 7
43:2 $20 10:9,11,12 7 48:16
44:2 70,000 46:14
45:5,13 0 760 3:18,22 4:1
46:4 05-1589 1:5 3:4 4:4 5:4,7 7:13
47:5 05-1657 1:10 3:5 7:16,16 10:13
48:5,8 11:3,4,6 12:9
1 12:12 13:14,23
100-page 20:7 25:8 50:4,6
51:7 12:08 56:8 54:19 55:5
10:4,4,6 16 49:16
1992 3:19
16:3,10 2007 1:14
22:3,19 210-212 49:1
25:2,22 22a-23a 4:16
56:2 24 2:10
27:5 36 22:10
4217.620 4:6
