IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ZUNI PUBLIC SCHOOL DISTRICT :
NO. 89, ET AL., :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 05-1508
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION, ET AL., :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 10, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
RONALD J. VAN AMBERG, ESQ., Santa Fe, N.M.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Federal Respondent.
LEIGH M. MANASEVIT, ESQ., Special Assistant Attorney
General, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the State
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
RONALD J. VAN AMBERG, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SRI SRINIVISAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Federal Respondent 23
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
LEIGH M. MANASEVIT, ESQ.
On behalf of the State Respondent 46
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
RONALD J. VAN AMBERG, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in case 05-1508, Zuni Public School
District, et al. vs. Department of Education.
Mr. Van Amberg.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF RONALD J. VAN AMBERG
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. VAN AMBERG: Mr. Chief Justice and may
it please the Court:
In 1994, Congress enacted the equalization
formula under the Impact Aid Act. It did so clearly and
decisively, and described a methodology which was
unambiguous, was self contained, reflected a recognized
statistical standard, and assisted in actually
promulgating -- and -- the intent of the Impact Aid Act,
which is to benefit impacted local educational agencies
or school districts and not fund the general educational
program of the States.
In so doing, Congress removed from the
Secretary the previously delegated authority to
establish by regulation the equalization formula. The
Secretary in turn in 1996, in enacting his regulations
in response to the 1994 legislation, disavowed that he
was engaging in any rulemaking or in fact in any
interpretations of statutes. Instead, the Secretary
sought and announced that he was proceeding under an
exception to the public notice and comment laws,
5 U.S.C. 553(b), by stating that his regulations merely
reflected changes in legislation, refining regulatory
language.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Van Amberg, they were
essentially the same as the prior regulations, were they
not? And those regulations had gone through the notice
and comment process.
MR. VAN AMBERG: Yes. That is correct,
Justice Ginsburg -- Ginsburg. Those were essentially,
except for a few words here and there, those were the
same regulations. But they were in response to a
congressional directive back in 1974 that the Secretary
is to create the equalization formula. In 1994,
Congress came in with legislation and established that
formula.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that the
formula was proposed to Congress by the Department of
Education, which is not something that Congress did in
other words, to stop the Secretary from whatever he was
doing. But it was indeed -- wasn't it the Secretary's
own language that Congress enacted?
MR. VAN AMBERG: The contention is made that
this 545-page omnibus education bill --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, just as to that,
the provision that we're talking about, do you say, you
say it wasn't drafted by the Department of Education?
MR. VAN AMBERG: I don't think we know
exactly who it was drafted by. I think there is --
there is some references in the Congressional --
Congressional Record that this is an administration
bill. But I would, I would like to respond, Justice
Ginsburg, based on the assumption that this was the
Secretary's bill.
Under the statutory formula, the language is
clear that what is disregarded in -- in ranking LEAs and
eliminating percentiles of LEAs is those LEAs which fall
above the 95th percentile --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Before you get into the
substance let's -- let's finish with this, this problem,
whether it was indeed the other Secretary's own bill.
Was the Secretary who proposed the -- the '94
legislation, the same Secretary who had promulgated the
prior regulations?
MR. VAN AMBERG: No. This --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The prior regulations were
promulgated when?
MR. VAN AMBERG: The former regulations were
promulgated in 1976.
JUSTICE SCALIA: My goodness, that's a long
time before.
MR. VAN AMBERG: That's a long time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: With a different Secretary
now.
MR. VAN AMBERG: And a different agency.
There wasn't even --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So there's no reason to
believe that the same Secretary -- that the Secretary
continued to have the same view of what was proper, is
there?
MR. VAN AMBERG: We view that it did not
and, and also, Justice Scalia and Justice Ginsburg, we
also view that if this was the chief educational officer
of the Federal Government, he was more than capable of
developing a statute which reflected his methodology
of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Indeed he could have copied
the regulations that were on the book and just put them
in the statute, couldn't he?
MR. VAN AMBERG: Well, even in the same act,
Your Honor, under when they had the EFIG statute, there
Congress was able to reference the regulations of the
Secretary. They didn't do so when they were, when they
enacted the impact aid part of it. So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, as -- as far as the
difference in time, it was the Secretary's decision, the
later Secretary's decision to retain, as you
acknowledged, the, almost the identical regulation. You
said it didn't go through notice and comment the second
time, but the text was basically the same in '76 and in
--
MR. VAN AMBERG: He didn't -- if I could,
Your Honor, he did not retain the second regulation.
This was supposed to be a new regulation which was
promulgated by the Secretary because the Impact Aid Act
had been repealed --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes --
MR. VAN AMBERG: -- and re-enacted.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- and I appreciate that.
But the text of it, what the regulation said was not
significantly different from what the earlier regulation
said.
MR. VAN AMBERG: No. But it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was this the same
Secretary, by the way, as the Secretary who issued the
new regulation, the same Secretary that was in office
when the new legislation had been proposed?
MR. VAN AMBERG: The new legislation was
'94. Secretary enacted it in '96. I think it probably
was. I -- I -- it was the same administration.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why, why would the
Secretary, if indeed it was his bill, why would he
deprive himself of the power to decide what the formula
should be? Which is the power he had before. I mean,
one must think that there must have been some pressures
from elsewhere when the Secretary goes in and says take
some power away from me, please.
MR. VAN AMBERG: Well, that, and I would
agree, Justice Scalia, that that is not a, a usual event
where an administration intentionally disgorges from
itself its own authority. And, and I would also point
out the fact that again, there is a dramatic difference
between what, what the statute proposed and, and the
methodology described in the regulation. And what's,
what's very significant is if you go back to 1976 when
the original regulation was promulgated, there was a
debate that went on in the public notice and comment
portion of these proceedings where they discussed
whether you eliminate percentile of LEAs directly or
whether you add this extra step of eliminating
percentage, percentages of pupils and then eliminating
LEAs as these pupils are eliminated.
I mean, it's a totally different process,
totally different philosophy behind them and as we can
see in this particular case, in New Mexico and in
Alaska, totally different results.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, Mr. Van Amberg, is the
statutory language really as unambiguous as you suggest?
It says above the 95th percentile or below the 5th
percentile, but it doesn't say above the 95th percentile
of local education agencies or below the 5th percentile
of local education agencies, does it?
MR. VAN AMBERG: Well, Justice Alito, I, I
think what you, I think it is clear and unambiguous.
And the reason is that if you, in order to run a
percentile calculation you need units against which to
run that, and then you need these, an identified set of
variable standards such as they provided here, the
average per pupil expenditures of each set of these LEAs
or districts.
So you rank the, the LEAs. You've got the
variable values and then it, it's, the statute provides
that you find that you eliminate those LEAs which are
above the 95th percentile. And then if you go back to
what "such" means and referencing back to other portions
of the statute, it's 95th percentile of the revenues and
expenditures of the LEAs in the State. It's a very
similar process for --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but what do you
distribute?
MR. VAN AMBERG: Pardon?
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you distribute? I
mean, I agree you have a, some kind of, let's put
something on cards, so you have thousands of cards and
each one has a number on it. What are you distributing
-- the cards? Are you, are you -- what's distribute --
a 5th percentile refers to some kind of distribution.
What's it a distribution of?
MR. VAN AMBERG: It's the distribution of
the percent of the, what is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is it a thing?
MR. VAN AMBERG: Like a thing.
JUSTICE BREYER: Like a -- like a set of
things that you're distributing, what are they?
MR. VAN AMBERG: The thing that you're
running the percentile against is the total number of,
of expenditures and revenues in the State.
JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, you take
all the -- there is a set of numbers, each number is a
different number and the characteristic of each number
is there some school district that spends per, or takes
in per pupil, revenue equal to that number. So we write
each one on a card. Is that what we're, is that our
distribution? We have like, let's say we have a, a
thousand cards. Is that what it is?
MR. VAN AMBERG: Well, you know, in New
Mexico's case you have --
JUSTICE BREYER: No. No. I'm not, I'm
saying what do you think it has to be? What do you
think it should be? What are, what is it we are
distributing? A simple question, I guess, for a
statistician. I unfortunately am not one and can't find
one, so I have no idea what this statute means.
(Laughter.)
MR. VAN AMBERG: Well, the, the -- the value
against which --
JUSTICE BREYER: Not a value. I want to
know what I'm distributing. And if you don't know I
would say that this is, I have never seen a case so much
better fitted for relying on the views of an agency.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, I thought you said
that you did know what it was. I thought you simply
quoted the statute, the 5th percentile of such
expenditures or revenues in the State. That's what's
being distributed.
MR. VAN AMBERG: Yes, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm sorry, I don't know how
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: Such revenues or
expenditures in the State consist of, the word "such"
obviously refers you back to some prior reference to
revenues in the State, and that prior reference in
subsection A is a reference to district by district, not
pupil by pupil.
MR. VAN AMBERG: That, that's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, so in other words we
are distributing those cards, it's a set of numbers? If
you're certain, isn't it fair to say that this statute
is not clear as to what it is you're distributing?
MR. VAN AMBERG: Well, I'm sorry, Justice --
I'm -- Breyer; I'm having a little trouble understanding
--
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I -- I thought not.
Is there a --
MR. VAN AMBERG: -- the question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're not certain
about the hypothetical but you're certain about the
statute, aren't you?
MR. VAN AMBERG: I'm certain about the
statute. You're provided the variable values that are
attributed to each of the LEAs; you rank them; and you
provide a percentile. It's a methodology which was
described in 1976. It's a methodology employed every
day in ranking students and schools.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah -- that -- right. But
I unfortunately don't know enough about this subject, so
I thought, not being an expert on it, that when you
referred to a percentile, you have some group of things,
a set of things that's being distributed in a certain
order and there is a top of that and a bottom of that.
MR. VAN AMBERG: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: And if that's what
percentile refers to, I just want to know what those
things are that are being distributed. And - and that's
where I find the ambiguity. And if there is an
ambiguity, I guess we are going to take the view of the
agency at least as I understand it. So -- so that's why
I asked the question.
MR. VAN AMBERG: All right. And, and I
think I understand the question now, Justice Breyer.
Thank you.
The units that are ranked or distributed are
the LEAs or the school districts. And they are ranked
in order of their per pupil expenditures and revenues.
Those are the units and the component parts of this
calculation that are provided for us by Congress.
JUSTICE BREYER: And does the statute say
you have to do it that way? It has to be the group
that's distributed?
MR. VAN AMBERG: It's my understanding under
-- under Brown and Williamson is if Congress speaks to
an issue, Congress is to be obeyed.
JUSTICE BREYER: Clearly.
MR. VAN AMBERG: There is nothing mysterious
about this type of a methodology. And this is the one
that Congress chose.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, you could do it that
way and the reason the Government, I think, says that
you shouldn't do it that way is that it would produce an
absurd result.
MR. VAN AMBERG: All right.
JUSTICE BREYER: That the object of the
statute is to catch the outliers. And if you, for
example, had one giant school district like New York
City which was at the top of the list and another giant
school district that was at the bottom of the list you
would cut those two out, and you might have cut out half
the pupils in the whole State, and those wouldn't be
outliers would they? I mean, that's the problem.
MR. VAN AMBERG: And you have a similar
infirmity associated with the other methodology. That
is, if you have a number of LEAs which are small in
numbers, as in New Mexico, particularly if you had a
number of small LEAs at the bottom, which is I think a
huge problem policy wise, you were to cut them out and
let them to float off in their poverty. I think, I can
understand where there is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Doesn't, doesn't
subsection b(ii) address outliers? I was surprised
there wasn't more discussion of that in the briefing and
maybe it's, it's because of some reason I'm unaware of.
That says that the Secretary in making this
determination can take into account particular types of
LEAs where there is extra, additional costs. I would
have thought for example if you had a very small LEA
with only 20 students and the cost is particularly high
because you don't have economies of scale, that you
haven't -- that would, could be knocked out for that
reason. Is that not how that works?
MR. VAN AMBERG: Yes. And this is the, the
whole problem, that we can argue philosophically how
whether Congress's methodology or the Secretary's
methodology is better, but the backdrop of this is that
the, the statute and also the regulation allows for
school, for the States to back out all these
disequalizing expenditures so that you, you make an
adjustment to more or less end up with a baseline per
pupil expenditure. And there is really no reason after
you do that for having a wide disparity, even between
the top and the bottom LEA.
The Secretary's formula, and I don't think
we should be arguing whose formula is better, because if
they are different, Congress wins, but nevertheless, the
Secretary's formula, it eliminates 26 percent of the
school districts. And under New Mexico, if you, if you
look at the top and the bottom school district even
after the eliminating of these funding differentials,
you've got a 244 percent disparity.
JUSTICE BREYER: It, it eliminates 26 school
districts but those 26 school districts account for 5
percent or 10 percent of the pupils. And I guess what
we are interested in here is not school districts; they
are not a thing -- they are a thing of a kind, but we
are interested in students, real people who get money.
And so that it, that it -- it eliminates 26 percent of
the school districts would see, to be a good thing, not
a bad thing, because what we are really interested in
are the pupils and it keeps in 90 percent of the pupils.
MR. VAN AMBERG: And Justice Breyer, I think
Congress and in its methodology has disagreed with that
view, because it does not rely strictly upon pupils, and
pupils are not necessarily the driving force in how we
work this formula.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought the problem was
disparity in school districts. Since much of the
funding for education is local funding, in some places
there are very rich school districts and very, very
poor, poor school districts. And I thought that the
purpose of this was to make sure that there is not an
enormous disparity, not pupil to pupil but district to
district. It makes perfect sense, it seems to me.
MR. VAN AMBERG: And that is correct.
Because these districts particularly in New Mexico serve
a unique purpose. New Mexico has pockets of, of urban
and populations, and then they have got small
traditional villages; they have got farming communities;
they have got Indian lands; they have got military
bases. And a school district whether it educates 100
children or 1,000 children or 5,000 children has a
special value in the State and in our educational
process. And simply because a child in New Mexico
attends the school district that does not have
particularly many students in it doesn't mean that he
has to suffer a poorer education than his brethren and
brothers and sisters in the metropolitan area.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Van Amberg, if there
is any ambiguity in the statute, one relevant
consideration might be how would this work across
States, and I think it's true, is it not, that your
reading would lead to wildly different, wildly different
results from State to State depending on whether they
have large districts or small districts at the top and
the bottom, whereas the other way, counting pupils
rather than school districts regardless of size, you
would get uniformity going from State to State.
MR. VAN AMBERG: Justice Ginsburg, the
Secretary recognized in 1976 that both methodologies
have their problems, depending on how your districts,
the number of districts that you have in a State, their
relative populations, how they line up. And --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Am I correct in
understanding that at the end of the line here, if you
win the Federal money will go to your two districts,
whereas if the other side wins the Federal money will go
to the State? Is that what the bottom line is?
MR. VAN AMBERG: That's the bottom line.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
MR. VAN AMBERG: And I would point out,
Justice Stevens, that Congress has made it clear that
the impact aid is supposed to go to the impacted
districts. It is not supposed to fund the general
educational program of a State. The money that the
State, that the State of New Mexico seeks to retain is
under a limited exception that has been created and it
is, it is not that we are trying to take the State's
money as the bottom line. It is that the State has
taken the impact aid dollars and doesn't have an
equalized system. New Mexico could equalize if it wants
to. It established its equalization formula.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask another general
question. If it were true, and I don't think it is in
this case, that the biggest district was the one that
got the most per pupil money -- the two biggest
districts that were at the opposite ends of the
spectrum, they would all be taken out, wouldn't they,
under your view?
MR. VAN AMBERG: Well, it actually
depends -- you get into statistical approaches, but if,
let's say, there were less than 20 districts, you just
had let's say 18 districts or 19 districts, then if you
do the percentile against, if you work the percentile in
that particular setting, nobody gets eliminated.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you have the same
problem if it's students, I take it? You'd have the
same statistical question whether you, you use districts
or students?
MR. VAN AMBERG: Correct, because you would
run -- because if you had districts, big districts at
both ends, you run your 5 percent on both ends with the
students, you end up not eliminating anybody.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's all right. I
wouldn't think that was a problem. But what about
Justice Stevens' question. There are 20 districts in
our State -- it's exaggerated, let me exaggerate it --
and the rich district has 20, has a quarter of the
students, and the poor district has another quarter. So
our outliers in that situation which we're eliminating
from our calculation are the rich district and the poor
district. One's at the top, one's at the bottom. And
now we're left with 18 districts to figure out whether
they're equalized. But those 18 districts account for
less than half or about half of all the students.
That's the problem. It seems that isn't very
representative and we're trying to get
representativeness.
MR. VAN AMBERG: Well, Justice Breyer, I, I
would respectfully like to go back, not to what we are
trying to accomplish through judicial decision, but what
Congress accomplished through its decision.
JUSTICE BREYER: I understand that. If the
language doesn't permit it you can't do it, they can't,
and you win. But if the language does permit it, the
reason -- you have to stretch the language, I suspect,
in my view to get to the Government's result. It might
just barely permit it. But one of the things on their
side is that if we take your view it produces an absurd
result, because of what Justice Ginsburg said, because
there is such variation in the number of pupils among
school districts in different states.
MR. VAN AMBERG: Right. If I could address
that, Your Honor. The only argument I see the State has
is the argument about absurdity. This debate that we're
having now is the debate that took place in 1976 in
front of the Secretary. He recognized that there were
two methodologies that he was considering. He
recognized that they both had their problems. But in
1994, Congress had before it at least or had available
to it information as to the, whether, what, how this
particular formula would work. There were only three
and perhaps -- three States, Kansas, Alaska, New Mexico,
and perhaps Arizona -- that had -- that were trying to
take advantage of the, of this narrow exception. So
they knew the configuration and the composition of these
school districts.
And so they could look if they wanted to --
and there's no legislative history to this, but they
could have looked if they had wanted to, to exactly what
the practical effect would be of these two formulas.
And the practical effect is that in New Mexico the
formula which the Respondents contend is absurd reduced
only 11 percent of the LEAs. And with the backdrop that
this, that these LEAs should have been more or less
equalized anyhow because of removing the disparate
funding, that's, that's much more reasonable and
certainly doesn't reflect an absurdity, and when you
compare that to the Secretary's approach which
eliminates 26 percent and cuts loose 23 school districts
out of 89 from any consideration and you end up with
kind of a core block in their 14 or 15 percent
disparity, I think there may be those who could argue
forcefully that that's an absurdity.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I see your white light is
on. I don't want to take -- would the other States make
that same answer that you just made?
MR. VAN AMBERG: Kansas equalizes under any
formula, as New Mexico did, could do. Alaska, you
eliminate 22 percent in order for them to just kind of
squeak by. If they applied Congress's formula they
would just equalize. This is an option I contend that's
available to every State that wants to take advantage.
If you give them a 25 percent disparity allowance, you
allow them to back out disequalizing expenditures.
There's really no explanation that's been offered why
there's any disequalization at all.
With that, if there is any time -- unless
there are any further questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Srinivasan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
ON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL RESPONDENT
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Srinivasan, you don't
want us to stretch the language, do you?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I don't think you
need to stretch the language, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you wouldn't urge us to
do either, would you?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, it depends on what
you mean by stretch.
(Laughter.)
MR. SRINIVASAN: The question, the question
before the Court is whether the Secretary's formula is
unambiguously foreclosed by the statutory test, not
whether it's the better reading, but whether it's
unambiguously foreclosed. And we happen to think it's
the better reading, but we certainly think it's not
unambiguously foreclosed. And maybe the clearest
indication that Congress did not unambiguously foreclose
the Secretary's methodology --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's the case that
says "unambiguously foreclosed"?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, Brand X says that,
but it's a characterization of the step one inquiry
under Chevron. And we can use "foreclosed" if you like,
Your Honor.
But the clearest indication that the statute
does not foreclose the Secretary's methodology is a
provision that I think hasn't been addressed thus far in
the argument and that's that in the very same act in
Congress in which Congress enacted Section 7709, the
provision at issue here, Congress also explicitly
endorsed and incorporated the Secretary's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You begin with an
argument that directly cuts against your position. They
knew how to do it under the -- I assume you're referring
to the education finance and incentive grant program?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I am.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they did it
there, they didn't do it here. To me that suggests the
opposite of the inference you're trying to draw.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I don't think so, Mr. Chief
Justice, with respect. There are two education finance
incentive grant program, or EFIG, provisions that we
identified in the briefs and one of them I would
acknowledge is susceptible to that line of argument,
although I don't think it's persuasive. But it's the
other one that I'm focusing on, and what the other one
does is to explicitly incorporate the Secretary's
regulations and so what Congress said in 1994 is that
for purposes --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which they did not
say in this act.
MR. SRINIVASAN: They didn't, but I think it
would be very odd to attribute to Congress the intention
on one hand to say, we like your regulation, so much so
that we want to use it and we want you to continue to
use it for purposes of the EFIG program --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Different purposes.
MR. SRINIVASAN: They're not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They're for different
purposes.
MR. SRINIVASAN: They're not different
purposes at all, Justice Scalia, with respect. They're
the exact same purpose. In both programs what Congress
wanted to do was to get an assessment of the extent to
which education expenditures were equalized in a State
among school districts. They're the very same purpose.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But for different
purposes. In the one case, in this act we're worried
about an extensive Federal presence that has an effect
on the tax base available for schools and under the EFIG
program it's an entirely different question of
equalization.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, at that level of
generality you might be right, but with respect to the
purpose of the equalization provisions of both of those
acts the purpose is exactly the same. In impact aid,
just like in EFIG, the question is to what extent has
the State equalized expenditures across school
districts. It's the very same question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, maybe let me
ask it directly. If they could so easily just say we
incorporate the Secretary's regulation in EFIG, why
didn't they do it here?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, because --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They instead went to
the trouble of mimicking part of the regulation, but not
mimicking the appendix, which is where your calculation
methodology is.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, they didn't mimic it.
They incorporated it. And so far as the argument is
that they incorporated just the regulation qua
regulation and not the appendix to the regulation, I
don't think that that argument can be squared with the
statutory text or the regulatory text.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can I ask, is there
a difference legally between a regulation and an
appendix to the regulation?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I don't think so, at least
not in the circumstance of this case, where the
regulation by its own terms incorporates the appendix.
And so when Congress incorporated the regulation it
necessarily incorporated the appendix.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you say
"incorporated," though. What it did was it took the
language and it did not take --
MR. SRINIVASAN: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No?
MR. SRINIVASAN: No, I don't think so, Your
Honor. The text of the statute in 1994 is set forth at
the top of page 30 of the Government's brief, and I'm
quoting from the second line of page 30 and what
Congress said in the EFIG statute in 1994, again in the
very same act that enacted this language --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In the EFIG statute?
MR. SRINIVASAN: In the EFIG statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But in this statute
the regulation says look to the, look at the appendix.
Congress as I understood when it enacted our statute, it
took language from the regulation; it didn't take the
part that said look to the appendix.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, it didn't take the
part that said look to the appendix because I don't know
that that would have been a sensible thing to do when
you're enacting a statute. But the point I'm trying to
make is that when Congress in the EFIG statute
incorporated the regulation it specifically referred to
the regulation that the Secretary had in place at that
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And it didn't do
that here?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It didn't do that here, but
it didn't have to. It makes sense --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I still think it cuts
against you rather than for you, the fact that they
could have done the same thing here and we wouldn't have
this case.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, let me just make one
more point on this, Your Honor, and then I'll move to
the text of Section 7709, because I do think that this
point has a great deal of force. The reason that
Congress would have incorporated the regulation
specifically in EFIG but not in impact aid is because
we're dealing with an impact aid regulation. So the
Secretary ordinarily wouldn't have thought that he
should apply the impact aid regulation for purposes of
EFIG unless Congress told him to do that and that's what
Congress did. But with respect to impact aid, there's
no reason to incorporate the regulation. The regulation
already existed, and the question is did Congress in
this act foreclose the Secretary from continuing to
apply that longstanding regulatory methodology. And I
would suggest that if Congress really wanted to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Srinivasan, if we could
come to the, to the text that you're talking about.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What I don't understand
about the Government's position is why you use this,
this per pupil theory for purposes of (B)i), but don't
use it for purposes of (A). You, you don't -- in the
major computation portions, namely for purposes of
paragraph 1, a program of State aid equalizes
expenditures among local expenditures, if in the second
fiscal year is made the amount of per pupil expenditures
made by or per pupil revenue available to, you do it
agency by agency, don't you? You DON'T apply this, you
know, it depends on how many pupils in each agency. Why
don't you do for both?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, if you look at 2(a),
Your Honor what that says is that the disparity, the
disparity standard at its broadest level deals with
whether the per-pupil revenues for the highest ranked
local educational agency exceeds the per pupil revenues
for the lowest one by 25 percent.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. SRINIVASAN: It would make no difference
if you take into account pupils for that part of the
analysis, and here's the reason why. When you take into
account pupils with respect to a local educational
agency and you weight the local, the figure by the
number of pupils served by the local educational agency,
the per pupil figure that you're going to attach to each
of those individual pupils is the same. It's the same
per pupil figure for each one. It's just that you
multiply it by the number of pupils.
So for purposes of this part of the statute,
where you're comparing the highest to the lowest,
whether you took into account the number of pupils or
not you'd still be dealing with the same two figures.
You'd be dealing with a figure that applies to the
highest ranked local educational agency and you'd be
dealing with a figure that applies to the lowest ranked
local educational agency.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying it comes to
the same, but the fact remains you don't use that
methodology in A, because you don't think the language
requires that methodology. And it is the same language
in B.
MR. SRINIVASAN: No, there would be -- I
don't know that we use one or the other. It's just that
there would be absolutely no purpose served by using
pupils with respect to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the purpose would be
to follow the language of the statute, and if you think
that the language in B requires this kind of an approach
you should take the same approach in A, especially if it
makes no difference.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, no; especially
because it makes no difference, because with respect to
the B part of it, the 95th and 5th percentile
exclusions, it makes all the difference in the world
whether you take into account --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I have a conceptual
difficulty, and it may be my limitations with the way
you do it. You take students and you assign a per-pupil
number to each individual student.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Effectively.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I would have
thought the per-pupil concept only makes sense if you're
dealing with LEAs. They have a per-pupil number because
they've got a bunch of pupils. You take individual
students, and you know for example in that school
district you don't spend the same amount of money on the
kindergartner that you spend on the eighth grader. And
yet, you give the kindergartner a per-pupil number and
the eighth grader a per-pupil number that is the same.
It's an artificial association. It makes sense to speak
of per-pupil numbers when you're referring to the LEAs
because they have so many pupils, they get so much
money, you can do the calculation. It doesn't make
sense to say, you know, John Smith the kindergartner has
a per-pupil expenditure of a thousand dollars. He may
have $200 and the eighth grader 2,000, so why are you
creating this artificial association and then using,
using that methodology?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, it's an approximation
to be sure, and per-pupil revenues by definition deal
with approximations across the swath of students that
are covered by local educational agencies.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And it's only -- the
reason is to rank them if you have an entity that has a
swath of students, the district, that's the way it
should be ranked. When you're ranking it by pupils,
maybe if you ranked them by pupils and you have the
actual numbers of course, which nobody does, your
methodology would make sense.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think what we're
really doing, Your Honor, is weighting each figure by
the amount of pupils in the school district, and the
reason we're doing that is to get a more accurate
picture of the extent to which any one school district's
per-pupil revenue figure contributes to the overall
revenue pictures in the State. And if I could use one
example which I think might help to crystallize why it's
necessary to do this sort of weighting and why education
finance practitioners routinely prescribe that you have
to do this sort of weighting in order to avoid distorted
results, if you consider the example of a State that has
two school districts, and I'll use real examples from
New Mexico. One would be the district that has the
highest per-pupil revenues in the state, the Mosquero
district, in which there's 57 pupils. And the other
would be the Albuquerque school district, the largest
school district in the State, which serves 84,000
pupils.
Now the per-pupil revenues for Albuquerque
are roughly $3,000 and the per-pupil revenues for
Mosquero, the smaller school district, are roughly
$7,000. And if you imagine a State that consists of
just those two districts, and you ask the question to
pair with the statutory language, what is the 50th
percentile, and I'll use 50th just for ease of analysis,
what is the 50th percentile of such per-pupil revenues
in the State? One answer would be that you take the
number for Mosquero, the 7,000 and you take the number
for Albuquerque, the 3,000, you split the difference and
you say the 50th percentile of per-pupil revenues in the
State is $5,000. But I think that would present a very
misleading picture of what's actually going on in the
State.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Because --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, because it's
an absurd hypothetical. What is the --
MR. SRINIVASAN: I don't -- I -- it is not
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the
smallest number of districts, what is the smallest
number of school districts in a State?
MR. SRINIVASAN: One.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which State has one
school district?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Hawaii. Hawaii has one
which is a special case but there are states that have a
relatively small number of school districts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In the, in the
hypothetical you posed why couldn't the Secretary
address that disparity under (b)(ii)? In other words,
the school district which has only 57 students, it seems
to me could be taken out of the calculation under
(b)(ii), and then you would be dealing only with more
representative school districts, not the special case of
the particularly isolated school district or whatever.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Two points on (b)(ii),
Mr. Chief Justice. The first is that by -- by the
statutory text, (b)(ii) is over and above what you do in
(b)(i,). The 95th and 5th percentiles exclusions. So
you first have to do that. But the more relevant
point --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why do you have to
do that? Why do you have to do it first? It says you
can take into account this -- extent to which the
program reflects additional costs in particular
districts.
MR. SRINIVASAN: No, my point is simply that
under (b)(i) the statute says the Secretary shall
disregard local education agencies that are above the
95th and below the 5th percentile. So I think the
Secretary has to do that. Now (b)(ii) in some sense
could be seen as an additional option for the Secretary
over and above the exclusion, but there is a more
fundamental point which is that with (b)(ii), it says
take into account the extent to which a program of State
aid reflects the additional costs.
And so what that does is a piggyback on the
way that the State approaches the situation. So this,
as -- this provision as the Secretary understands it
allows it to give effect to a State that gives effect to
those sorts of considerations, but it's not an
independent grant of authority for the Secretary himself
to take those considerations into account.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Srinivasan, you -- you
may have convinced me. I'll stipulate that you have
convinced me that the argument that you're arguing for
would probably be a better method, but you haven't
touched the text of (b)(2)(b)(i) yet, and that's where
some of us at least are, are having our -- our problems.
Do you agree that in the absence of the
other program, I forget the, the acronym for it -- that
you really would not have any argument that there is
ambiguity in the text here?
MR. SRINIVASAN: No. No. Absolutely not.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then -- then would you
address the text?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure, I will.
It's at page 4a of the appendix of the
Government's brief, b -- (b)(i). And what the text says
is disregard local educational agencies with per-pupil
expenditures or revenues above the 59th percentile or
below the 5th percentile of such expenditures or
revenues in the State.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Now one point I make --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So what is supposed to be
disregarded are educational agencies?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Right. And the agencies
are identified how? How do we identify the agencies
that would be disregarded?
MR. SRINIVASAN: You identify the agencies
to be disregarded by first identifying the 59th and 5th
percentiles of per-pupil revenues in the State. And
then you disregard --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And we identify their
per-pupil revenues, too, don't we? Agencies with
per-pupil expenditures or revenues above or below,
right?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, but -- and -- but the
critical test is the 95th percentile and 5th percentile
of such expenditures or revenues in the State.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that critical test is
being applied to an agency which is being identified by
reference to per-pupil expenditures or revenues,
correct?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It is. I mean there is no
doubt that the per-pupil revenues or expenditure figures
that lie on the spectrum are associated with the local
educational agencies. That's how --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it's not merely that
they are associated with. The very definition, the very
identification of LEA here is exclusively in terms of
per-pupil expenditures or revenues. It's not merely in
association. It is a definition, isn't that so?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I don't think so. The --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then, then what does the
phrase with per-pupil expenditures or revenues above 95
or below 5 mean?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, that's true that each
local education agency has a per-pupil expenditure or
revenue. But the critical part of the statute which has
59th percentile or 5th percentile of such expenditures
or revenues doesn't foreclose weighting. And I think
the point that Justice Alito made bears, which is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, why doesn't it? It
seems to me that the only identification of an entity or
person, if you want, to be disregarded is the
identification of an LEA, and the LEA is described in
terms exclusively of its expenditures or revenues. So
why doesn't that foreclose your position?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, we -- two parts to
the answer, Justice Souter. First the Secretary's
formulation, no less than Petitioner's formulation, does
disregard local educational agencies with per-pupil
revenues above the 95th and 5th percentiles.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Right. Obviously --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Where we disagree is in
identifying the 95th exactly.
JUSTICE SOUTER: After identifying them in
terms of the expenditures or revenues. That's what
you're supposed to do.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Exactly. And I'd --
exactly. And I'd reiterate the point that Justice Alito
made earlier, which is that Congress could have
compelled the approach that Petitioners compelled --
contend, if it would have said --
JUSTICE SOUTER: There are lots of things
that Congress could have done differently from what it
did do, but it, that doesn't seem to me to inject an
ambiguity in the identification in, in this subsection
of the LEA that we are talking about. And it doesn't
create an ambiguity in, in the clear provision that what
is to be disregarded is an LEA as so defined.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think it does, Your
Honor, because there are two different ways of ranking
the LEAs. One is to take the per-pupil revenues
associated with each LEA and simply take that list into
account. Another is to take the same list but then
weight it by the number of pupils in each LEA.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Sure, that's another way to
--
MR. SRINIVASAN: Nothing in the statute
forecloses that approach.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- do it, but tell me why
that is consistent with the text.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Because the text refers to
the 95th and 5th percentiles of such expenditures or
revenues in the State, and the list that includes the
weighting does represent a list of expenditures or
revenues in the State.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would such be -- of such
expenditures or revenues. That refers back to local
educational agencies with per-pupil expenditures or
revenues. It's referring you back not to the totality
of students but to, to agencies with per-pupil
expenditures or revenues.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure. And I don't, I don't
dispute that the per-pupil revenue figures belong to a
local educational agency. But again that doesn't mean
that you can't take into account the relative extent to
which a particular school district contributes to the
overall State picture, and the way you do that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wouldn't the statute
have told you, though, to, to disregard pupils according
to the ranking? It does tell you to disregard LEAs,
which suggests the ranking -- at least to me, that the
ranking ought to be of LEAs and not pupils.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, it is, it is a
ranking of LEAs in the first instance and then it's,
each of those LEA figures is weighted by the number of
pupils the way we do it, and we do end up disregarding
LEAs. But as Justice Souter pointed out the first step
is identifying the 5th and 95th percentiles, and on that
step we take into account the number of pupils. It's
only at that step that we take into account the number
of pupils.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask --
MR. SRINIVASAN: And nothing in the statute
forecloses that. I'm sorry.
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- a rather basic
question? What if I'm convinced that your opponent's
reading is really only the fair reading of the statute,
but I'm also convinced by you that that's not what
Congress intended. What should I do?
(Laughter.)
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, one way or another I
think your should rule in our favor.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well no. Accept, accept
my premises. What do you think I should do?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think in that
situation you sort of have the sliding scale that we
often confront with textual analysis. And if you really
think that Congress would have compelled an absurd
result, and I think it does verge on that, then you
would --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I don't think it has to be
absurd, it's just, I would measure it by what Congress
actually intended. Assume there two permissible
readings, and two -- both of them make sense. And I'm
convinced, assume I'm convinced by you, that they really
intended to perpetuate the prior method of procedure.
May I take that, may I come to that result
even though I think the language really says exactly
what your opponent says it says?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, if the language
absolutely unambiguously compels that reading, then I
think it would be a difficult position. But I don't
think it goes, goes to that degree.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
your office had answered that question in countless
briefs where it tells us to be guided by the language of
the statute and not some unexpressed intent.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, that's why I said, if
you think that the statute unambiguously actually
compels that reading, then I don't know that we would
have a position.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you still have a
Church of the Holy Trinity team over there somewhere,
don't you?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Why doesn't it -- why
doesn't absolutely compel it? Where is the ambiguity,
you say?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It says --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- the 5th percentile of
such per-pupil expenditure. And that --
MR. SRINIVASAN: That's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now how are you going to
get that so it doesn't just say just list cards with
per-pupil expenditure on it, different ones and take the
top five?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, well it's just the
number of cards, ultimately, under your hypothetical,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you have a lot of cards
that have the same cards that have the same number? You
have a lot --
MR. SRINIVASAN: They have the same cards,
we just have -- they have the numbers, exactly.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah.
MR. SRINIVASAN: It's the same cards with
the same numbers. We just add more cards in order to
reflect the extent to which each LEA contributes to the
overall picture.
JUSTICE BREYER: And why, why don't you take
the top five where we have 10 percent of the students,
let's take the second five and they happens to have the
same number on the card as the first five, and why don't
they fall in the first 5 percent?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I'm not sure I understand.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Forget it.
(Laughter.)
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you enlighten us a
little bit about how this statute developed?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: As far as I know it was
the same Secretary of Education when the statute came on
the books and when the regulation was kind of readopted,
I think it was --
MR. SRINIVASAN: I think that's right,
Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there was a peculiar
proposal to drop, it was the Secretary's proposal to
drop the bottom five. So it was a different proposal,
and what was the reason for that? Why keep, keep the
95th percentile but not the 5th?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, as we point out in a
footnote in our brief there was some education finance
experts that suggested there would be no reason to
retain the exclusion at the bottom of the range, and I
think that's because when you have low per-pupil
revenues there is a reason not to exclude those figures.
But the important point is the material
important part of the language, which is 95th percentile
of such expenditures or revenues in the State, is
exactly what the Secretary proposed and the Secretary of
course wouldn't have curtailed his own discretion to
continue the same methodology that he had long had in
place. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Mr. Manasevit.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LEIGH M. MANASEVIT,
ON BEHALF OF STATE RESPONDENT
MR. MANASEVIT: Mr. Chief Justice, may it
please the Court:
I'd like to begin with Justice Ginsburg's
question, because I think that that is very illuminating
to where we are today. This statute began against a
history, an 18-year history where the agency had been
delegated by Congress virtually carte blanche authority
to devise equalization tests. That was the earlier
statute. The agency had three tests at the time. One
was the 25 percent disparity test that we see today and
there were two other tests.
In 1994, what happened was the Secretary
proposed to the Congress and the Congress following the
Secretary's lead eliminated the two other tests.
That's, that's what was happening. And Justice Scalia
asked well, why would the Secretary tie his hands? What
happened was the Secretary no longer was satisfied or
liked the other two tests and eliminated those and
proposed the test that he had been using for 18 years to
the Congress. Congress adopted that test and that's the
test that we have today, the 25 percent disparity test.
The difference is that whereas the Secretary
had the free rein to develop that disparity test,
however he wanted, previously, the Secretary -- the
Congress now told the Secretary in disparity, do the
following things. First of all 25 percent is the
maximum disparity that we are going to allow you, number
one. And number two, take out the outliers in a range
of 5 to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Isn't it -- I'm
sorry. Go ahead.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You know, I really don't
care what the Secretary thought he was doing. I mean,
it seems to me we have to ask the question, what would a
member of Congress who voted on this thing have thought
he was voting for, who had, you know, didn't have this
history you're giving us. And more importantly, what
would a citizen to whom this language is promulgated
think the language means? I don't care what the
Secretary had in the back of his mind. Why should that
make any difference to us?
MR. MANASEVIT: Fair question, Justice
Scalia, and that brings us back to the language of the
statute, where of course we begin, and we have to look
precisely to the language of the statute. The language
of the statute, what Petitioners mistake is that the
language of the statute here has a two-part process. We
don't look at LEAs first. It doesn't say 5th percentile
of LEAs. We have to first rank expenditures or revenues
in the State. It's above 95th percentile or below 5th
percentile of the expenditures.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of such expenditures or
revenues.
MR. MANASEVIT: Of such.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you've got to find out
what "such" refers to.
MR. MANASEVIT: And "such" would refer just
to the previous usage of that precise term, which is
disregard local education agencies with per-pupil
expenditures or revenues. So it's that "with per-pupil
revenues" that the "such" would refer back to, the most
immediate prior reference, so we're still looking at
per-pupil revenues or expenditures in the State which we
have to rank first. We don't identify LEAs first. It
doesn't say 95th percentile of LEAs. It tells us rank
per-pupil revenue. The only difference --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It says disregard LEAs; it
then identifies certain LEAs which are to be
disregarded. Nowhere does it say disregard pupils.
MR. MANASEVIT: No. It says -- it says --
we are disregarding the LEAs. That's the end of the
process. But we have to identify the range of value
that 5 percent and 95 percent applies to. The range --
the percentiles apply to a range of values. We have in
New Mexico, we have 89 amounts of per-pupil revenue per
district, we have 89 of those. But we also have 377,000
per-pupil revenues, because a per-pupil revenue repeats
for every time that there's a student, and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. No. See,
that's my conceptual difficulty. It is only per pupil
when you're dealing with an aggregation of the pupils.
If you're going to break it down pupil by pupil, which
is what you do, you don't have a per-pupil number
associated with each pupil. You have a number. Nobody
knows what it is because nobody knows how much you spend
on each individual. We know how much you give to this
district, and therefore, the district has a per-pupil
number, and therefore, I would have thought a reference
to per-pupil numbers suggests you're grouping according
to district.
MR. MANASEVIT: Mr. Chief Justice, we are
not saying that it can't. We're -- all we're saying is
that it equally carries both meanings. School finance
is an extraordinarily technical area, which is precisely
why Congress left this issue to the agency to work this
out. When Congress -- when Congress used the terms 5
percent and 10 percent, and again I'm not, I'm not
reading Congress's mind to say that when Congress used
those terms, those percentiles, Congress must have
intended some national uniformity. This is a national
program and Congress expects these programs to be
applied somewhat uniformly across -- across the country.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me ask you the same
question I asked -- I asked the Government. Why don't
you, if this is a natural reading, why don't you apply
it to, to 2.A? You don't even think of doing that in
2.A. In 2.A you just look at the individual agency, but
it's the same language in 2.A.
MR. SRINIVASAN: In 2.A, 2.A calls for a
different type of comparison. And I also note that in
2.A it refers to percent instead of percentile, which
refers to two numbers being compared. Percentile refers
to an entire ranking of value, so the processes are
somewhat different. Now we're not, I'm not contending
that this statute is absolutely clear and a model of
draftsmanship, but certainly the meaning of 95th
percentile or 5th percentile of such expenditures or
revenues is a broad enough term.
JUSTICE BREYER: To include the words
per-pupil revenue for each pupil, is that what you're
saying?
MR. MANASEVIT: Well, to --
JUSTICE BREYER: How do you want to say it,
per-pupil revenue attached to each pupil?
MR. MANASEVIT: Well, I believe --
JUSTICE BREYER: Or how do you want to say
it then?
MR. MANASEVIT: I believe simply that the
word per-pupil revenue can mean the dollar amount per
each agency 89 times, or it can mean repeated each time
a student generates --
JUSTICE BREYER: What is attached to each
pupil? You say the word such is broad enough to include
per-pupil revenue as attached to each pupil?
MR. MANASEVIT: Yes. Correct. Remember --
JUSTICE BREYER: And I don't know where to
look to discover if you're right or wrong.
MR. MANASEVIT: Well, bear in mind -- bear
in mind the nature of many education --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any statistical
text that you could look at to see it that's the way
people use the words?
MR. MANASEVIT: That answer I couldn't
answer, but I can tell you that typically in an
education statute, funding is distributed on the basis
of numbers of pupils. So if the statute says $3,000 per
pupil shall go somewhere, the -- the statute means you
take that dollar amount and you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that must not
be right, because otherwise we wouldn't have any
disparity to worry about equalization in the first
place. Right?
MR. MANASEVIT: Well, we always -- we always
will have disparity in the real world and that -- and
that's because lots of things cause disparity. In this
case actually, local tax revenues are not the cause of
disparity because there are no significant local tax
revenues at issue here. But disparity happens -- in the
top three or four districts in New Mexico you have under
100 students, or slightly over 100 students. In a
district that small, minor things, an insurance recovery
for example, a couple hundred thousand dollar insurance
recovery in a district of 87 students will generate
$3,000 of revenue per member for that year. It's a
distorting figure. That's precisely what Congress is
trying to get rid of.
But when Congress says 5 percent, presumably
Congress intends that 5 percent to have some uniform
applicability across the country and not vary with a
State like New Mexico where it would just eliminate five
districts. Or in our -- in our neighboring State of
Maryland, Montgomery County has the highest per-pupil
revenues in the State. It has 16 percent of the
population. Under petitioners' view, that -- and it has
24 districts, so that district would be eliminated under
petitioners' view. It would completely be eliminated.
Yet under our view, the 10 percent would fall within
that and we would keep it in. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Don't you think
Congress, if Congress is concerned about the, in this
provision, about the impact of the Federal presence, and
your reading prevents the money that Congress meant to
go to those particular districts from actually reaching
the districts, I mean, wouldn't we be inclined to read
it the way that, let the money get where Congress meant
it to go?
MR. MANASEVIT: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, because that was on the list of things that I
wanted to cover, and I'm sure that petitioners 'counsel
inadvertently misspoke. Impact aid never ever gets
diverted from the district. Impact Aid goes from the
Federal Government pursuant to a formula --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, sure, but then
the question is whether the State can consider it when
they're figuring out how much money to give it. So in
effect it's diverted.
MR. MANASEVIT: Well, remember, the State
figures a total cost of program for every district
starting from zero, number of students and dollars
needed to manage those number of students, and the State
supplies that amount of money. So where the district
gets some of that necessary money from another source,
the State under equalization is allowed to just consider
that that amount of money, in addition to what the State
is going to provide, will provide the entire amount.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. MANASEVIT: Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Van Amberg, you
have three minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF RONALD J. VAN AMBERG
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. VAN AMBERG: Mr. Chief Justice had a
question as to whether or not the, an appendix is
something different from a regulation or carries a
different weight, and I haven't found anything
determinative. But I would refer the Court to Young
versus Community Nutrition Institute where it identifies
something similar to an appendix as an example, and the
Court says an example is just that, an example.
And I don't think we need the argument to
prevail, but we would submit that it is at best
confusion, it's confusing that the Secretary would take
the body of the methodology proposed by Congress, put it
in his, in the body of his regulation, and then refer
the public to an appendix in order to, how to work the
methodology. And in this appendix, he then flips what
Congress intended and what he had in the body of his own
regulation.
I would also suggest that Congress cannot be
presumed even in this instance to not be, at least have
some input as to what was happening. In the Senate
bill, my understanding is that there was a suggestion
that the disparity figure would only be 10 percent and
not 25 percent. That didn't make it through but the
statute as it was written, and I think lasted for about
a year or so, had the disparity amount going from 25
percent to 20 percent. That was subsequently amended
and kept back up at the 25 percent level. So the idea
that this was not a bill where Congress paid attention,
I think, is not a warranted assumption.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Van Amberg, could a
State get to the same result? Let's say your reading of
the statute is the only permissible one. By combining
school districts, it's no longer going to be the X
school district and the Y school district, it will be
the XY school district, and then the population would
increase. Still only one LEA.
MR. VAN AMBERG: There is a provision,
Justice Ginsburg, in the Impact Aid Act, and I think
it's 7113, in which it basically says that if the
Secretary of the Education perceives that a State is
manipulating its LEAs in a way in which to take
advantage of the, of this limited exception, it can
disregard that action. So I think there is built -- I
think Congress was one step ahead of us and recognized
that possibility and addressed it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Thank you.
MR. VAN AMBERG: Thank you. With that,
thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:07 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
56:22 adopted 47:2 9:4,10 10:3,11 approach 22:8 attribute 25:12
43:4,20 agencies 3:17 12:12,17,21 approaches 8:13 36:13
9:8,9 32:22 13:8,16 14:2,6 19:15 36:9 46:14
22:2 37:15,16,18,23 16:21 17:9,23 32:19 22:22 26:4
42:16,20 38:11 39:11 18:8,18,20 approximations 29:23
48:16 21:7 22:17 area 17:22 50:1 avoid 33:15
29:24,24,25 ambiguity 13:12 arguing 16:4
13:13 17:24 36:17 B
31:1 38:5,22 36:24 40:2,4 argument 1:13 b 31:6,13,18
20:13 50:2,16 51:14 amended 55:21 3:7 21:8,9 23:6 35:15,24 36:2
aggregation amount 29:22 24:12,17 25:3 36:5,19,19
35:20 49:13 32:6 33:7 26:24 27:2 37:5,5
40:10 agree 8:11 10:5 51:13 52:7 36:17,23 46:6 back 4:15 8:17
36:21 54:10,13,14 54:19 55:4 9:21,22 12:3
aid 3:12,16 7:1 analysis 30:11 32:17 41:1 47:22,25
19:4 26:10 announced 4:2 46:23 50:13,13 backdrop 15:20
24:12 56:8 52:3 assign 31:23 barely 21:2
26:2 al 1:4,7 3:5 answered 43:8 Assistant 1:18 base 26:4
29:9 Alaska 9:3 anybody 20:2 1:21 based 5:10
21:17 22:18 APPEARAN... assisted 3:15 baseline 15:24
36:3,7 allowed 54:12 applicability 42:21,23 bears 39:1
35:6 37:2 36:11 applied 22:20 55:24 behalf 1:16,20
2:3,12 3:6,7,9 applies 30:23,25 attached 51:8,16 2:13 3:8 23:7
bunch 32:4 31:21 32:1,23 13:22 consist 12:2
16:4 C 2:1 3:1 49:11,23 50:11 concept 32:2 39:23
36:18 calculation 9:13 52:8 53:13,21 conceptual contending
55:16,23 calls 50:18 children 17:16 21:20 46:2
15:1 care 47:15,21 clear 5:13 9:11 16:5,22 18:21 42:23,23
18:5,17 carries 49:25 12:11 18:21 20:21 21:14 copied 6:19
19:3 54:23 40:4 50:24 24:1,13,13,14 core 22:11
45:13,19 carte 46:14 clearest 23:25 25:7,12,22 correct 4:11
52:15 56:20,21 42:25 42:20 46:14,20 costs 15:11
catch 14:15 comes 31:2 46:20 47:2,2,7 35:21 36:7
cause 52:14,15 comment 4:3,10 47:17 50:2,3,3 counsel 11:18
certain 12:10,18 7:6 8:19 50:5,6,8 52:24 23:4 46:4
12:19,21 13:6 communities 53:1,2,14,14 53:23 54:15
20:3 48:25 17:13 53:16,19 55:7 56:19
43:19 certainly 22:7 Community 55:11,13,23 counting 18:5
44:1,7,8 23:24 50:25 55:1 56:14 countless 43:8
changes 4:5 compare 22:8 congressional country 50:9
characteristic compared 50:21 4:15 5:7,8 53:3
10:22 comparing Congress's County 53:6
24:6 comparison 50:5 course 33:3 46:1
devise 46:15 disregard 35:25 21:6,21 22:9 31:1 32:22
34:9 47:4,23 56:13 35:22 52:18 effect 21:25 22:1
different 6:5,7 5:13 37:13,17 56:3 54:5
8:25 9:1,3 37:19 39:4 district's 33:9 Effectively
50:19,23 54:23 distribute 10:2,4 dollar 51:13 29:1,5
35:9 54:24 10:8 52:7,21 eighth 32:7,9,16
differentials distributed dollars 19:4 either 23:15
39:25 52:4 drafted 5:4,6 53:4
49:12 11:15 12:9,11 dramatic 8:14 53:9,10
disagree 39:14 district 1:3 3:5 D.C 1:9,19,22 8:22,23 16:9
discover 51:21 17:7,8,15,19 E 2:1 3:1,1 enacted 3:11
3:5 4:20 discussed 8:20 20:11 32:6,25 39:21 46:15 24:13 27:22
discussion 15:7 33:7,18,20,21 ease 34:5 28:2
23:1 35:7,11 41:8 economies 15:14 28:8
29:25 15:23 22:24 52:20,22 53:9 education 1:7 ends 19:11 20:1
12:25 disparity 16:1 districts 3:18 24:19,25 25:24 enlighten 45:2
16:10 17:2,7 9:17 13:20 33:13 35:25 enormous 17:7
30:4 35:6 16:18 17:2,4,5 48:16 51:23 54:14
exclusions 31:19 26:24 45:5 23:23,25 24:4 46:10
4:16 38:14 39:6 Fe 1:16 42:1 54:4
26:6,9 existed 29:8 Federal 1:20 2:7 forget 36:22 gives 36:11
52:10 expects 50:8 6:16 18:15,16 44:24 giving 47:19
expenditure 23:7 26:3 former 5:25 go 7:6 8:17 9:21
38:9,22 43:24 figure 20:12 4:16,18,20 20:19 47:13
22:5 expenditures 30:25 33:6,10 16:6,25 19:6 53:17,20
26:12 9:16,24 10:19 52:24 55:17 21:16 22:2,18 goes 8:8 43:6,6
13:21 15:23 38:9 41:5,17 54:1 going 13:13 18:7
29:22 37:7,8 finance 24:19,25 39:10,10 49:14 54:14
23:6 38:15,19,24 49:25 found 54:24 good 16:18
40:21,24,25 13:12 48:12 free 47:5 Government
51:1 35:16,19 37:19 fundamental Government's
26:10 explicitly 24:14 fiscal 29:22 further 23:3 36:13
25:6 fitted 11:17 great 28:24
44:12 extensive 26:3 five 44:4,19,20 G group 13:5,25
extent 25:23 44:21 45:13 G 3:1 grouping 49:21
41:7 44:16 float 15:3 19:7 guided 43:9
32:5 extraordinarily follow 31:12 generate 52:22 H
52:21 50:1 following 46:20 generates 51:15 half 14:19 20:14
47:8 giant 14:16,17 20:14
21:19 fair 12:10 42:4 forcefully 22:13 17:23 18:8 happened 46:19
47:24 foreclose 24:1 21:4 45:2,5,10 46:24
19:4 26:10 intended 42:6 27:25 28:13,17 know 5:5 11:3
33:19 important 45:22 intention 25:12 36:15 37:1,10 49:18 51:20
45:23 intentionally 37:12,15,22 knows 49:17,17
47:19 47:19 interested 16:14 39:1,2,9,13,16 L
40:12
41:10
24:8 incentive 24:19 4:1 5:12 9:5 20:23
42:2
28:22 25:1 isolated 35:11 20:24,25 23:11
43:7
33:6 40:7 inclined 53:18 issue 14:4 24:14 43:15,19,23 23:13 27:14,22
46:4
34:17 25:6 26:16 J 46:8,10,22 47:20,21,25
44:6 29:7 J 1:16 2:3,12 3:7 47:12,14,24 48:2,2,4 50:17
50:10
51:3
39:3,5 27:9 3:9 4:7,12,19 43:18 44:25
54:2
increase 56:6 5:2,9,16,23 6:2 laws 4:3
56:8,16
37:16 36:13 7:2,14,16,21 56:19 38:14 39:5,5
Indian 17:14 8:3,11 9:4,10 40:3,5,9,11
24:9 10:20 11:5,14 Kansas 21:17 56:6
48:21 31:24 32:4 12:8,12,15,18 keep 45:14,14 LEAs 5:13,14
49:18 50:16 13:2,9,17,24 53:12 5:14 8:21,24
39:15,16 infirmity 14:23 16:11,21 17:1 KENNEDY 12:23 13:20
information 17:23 18:8,13 19:20 22:14 14:24 15:1,11
inject 40:1 19:20 20:3,5 kind 10:5,9 40:8 41:12,14
inquiry 24:6 22:14 23:4,9 31:13 45:7 48:6,21,22,24
Institute 55:1 25:9,16,18,21 knew 21:20 left 20:12 50:2
5:20 lots 39:24 52:14 12:24,25 14:7 natural 50:14 O 2:1 3:1
low 45:20 14:23 15:19,20 nature 51:23 obeyed 14:4
31:4,5 32:18 necessary 33:13 39:13
11:1 M 1:21 2:9 46:6 55:10 need 9:13,14 offered 22:25
44:20 major 29:19 metropolitan 23:13 55:4 office 7:23 43:8
making 15:9 17:22 needed 54:9 officer 6:15
Manasevit 1:21 14:25 16:7 53:5 omnibus 5:1
52:2,12 53:21 52:18 53:4 new 7:11,23,24 opposite 19:11
manipulating military 17:14 14:16,25 16:7 option 22:21
19:3 Maryland 53:6 mimicking 18:25 19:5 oral 1:12 2:2,5,8
27:20 material 45:22 26:20,21 21:17 22:1,18 3:7 23:6 46:6
56:22 51:22,23 52:18 53:4 13:21 22:19
53:22 maximum 47:9 minor 52:20 note 50:19 33:15 44:15
29:21 17:20 23:17 34:12 number 10:7,18 original 8:18
38:8,20 41:6 misspoke 53:24 10:21,22,22,24 ought 41:14
31:1 47:15 51:13,14 mistake 48:3 14:24 15:1 outliers 14:15
35:25 53:18 model 50:24 18:11 21:5 14:21 15:6
38:10,22 meaning 50:25 money 16:16 30:14,18,21 20:9 47:10
40:24 meanings 49:25 18:15,16,24 31:24 32:3,8,9 overall 33:10
48:16 means 9:22 19:3,10 32:6 34:8,8,21,22 41:9 44:17
11:10 47:21 32:13 53:16,19 35:3 40:11
measure 42:20 53:6 47:10 49:15,16 page 2:2 27:19
52:23 34:1,8 numbers 10:21 paid 55:23
30:2 38:12,15 multiply 30:18 32:11 33:3 paragraph
50:16 method 36:18 mysterious 14:6 44:12,15 49:21 29:20
42:24 50:21 52:5 Pardon 10:3
45:23 42:21 56:2 28:8,22,24 42:24 48:19 24:11,14 36:10
19:19 21:2 37:11 39:1,20 36:18 56:7
35:21 perpetuate 45:16,22 problem 5:17 provisions 25:1
53:17 42:24 pointed 41:19 14:21 15:2,18 26:9
15:13 persuasive 25:4 policy 15:2 20:4,15 4:3 8:19 55:9
35:11 per-pupil 30:5 poor 17:5,5 20:8 problems 18:10 pupil 9:16 10:24
34:6,10 37:6 56:5 proceedings 29:23 30:6,15
38:22 39:11 portion 8:20 8:25 9:25 51:8,17,18
20:1 40:8,25 41:2,5 portions 9:22 17:18 48:4 52:6
43:24 44:3 29:19 49:4 pupils 8:23,24
30:7 45:20 48:16,17 posed 35:5 processes 50:22 14:20 16:13,20
46:17 48:20,23 49:7 position 24:17 produce 14:11 16:20,23,24
49:5,5 49:9,9,15,19 29:16 39:7 produces 21:3 18:5 21:5
53:1 49:21 51:4,8 43:5,14 program 3:19 29:25 30:10,12
51:13,18 53:6 possibility 56:15 18:24 24:19 30:14,16,18,21
Petitioner 1:5 poverty 15:3 25:1,15 26:5 31:10 32:4,12
1:17 power 8:5,6,9 29:20 35:21 33:1,2,7,20,23
48:3 53:8,10 practitioners programs 25:22 49:1,13 52:5
9:6,7,7,8 Petitioner's precise 48:15 promulgated 25:22,25 26:9
39:10 precisely 48:2 5:20,24 6:1 26:10 31:9,11
11:20 philosophically 50:1 52:24 7:12 8:18 purposes 25:8
13:5,10 15:18 premises 42:12 47:20 25:15,16,19,21
31:18 philosophy 9:1 prescribe 33:14 promulgating 26:2 29:4,17
36:1 phrase 38:19 presence 26:3 3:16 29:18,19 30:19
38:2,2 picture 33:9 53:15 proper 6:11 pursuant 54:1
43:23 34:12 41:9 present 34:11 proposal 45:12 put 6:20 10:5
48:5 44:17 pressures 8:7 45:12,13 55:7
pictures 33:11 presumably proposed 4:20
51:1 piggyback 36:8 53:1 5:19 7:24 8:15 Q
place 21:10 presumed 55:14 45:25 46:20 qua 26:25
37:20 52:11 prevents 53:16 provide 12:24 question 11:8
40:19 places 17:3 previous 48:15 54:14,14 12:17 13:15,17
49:6 please 3:10 8:9 previously 3:21 provided 9:15 19:8,22 20:5
23:9 46:9 47:6 12:22 13:23 23:19,19 26:5
47:16,24 recognized 3:14 reiterate 39:20 48:23 49:7,9 54:19
54:3,22 18:9 21:11,13 relative 18:12 51:4,8,13,18 roughly 33:25
35:16 12:1,4 13:21 rulemaking
49:4,5,6 reference 6:24 remains 31:3 37:20,23,24 running 10:18
48:6,21 48:19 49:20 51:19 54:6 38:25 39:6,12 S
references 5:7 removed 3:20 39:17 40:8,20 S 2:1 3:1
referred 13:5 repealed 7:13 41:3 45:21,24 satisfied 46:24
28:10 repeated 51:14 48:6,10,17,18 saying 11:6 31:2
33:1 40:7 32:11 41:1 represent 40:21 51:2 52:15,17 says 8:8 9:6
refers 10:9 12:3 representative 53:7 14:10 15:9
13:10 40:18,24 20:16 35:10 re-enacted 7:15 24:4,5 28:1
42:4 reflect 22:7 respect 24:25 right 13:2,16 48:24 49:2,2
43:4,13 44:16 25:21 26:8 14:13 20:3 52:5 53:1 55:3
53:16 reflected 3:14 29:6 30:12 21:7 26:8 30:8 56:9
4:5 6:17 31:10,17 37:15,25 39:13 scale 15:14
regulation 3:22 Respondent ROBERTS 3:3 7:21 8:3,11
22:25 7:18,23 8:16 23:7 46:7 23:4 24:3,16 17:1 23:10,13
33:6 8:18 15:21 Respondents 24:21 25:9 23:14 25:16,18
42:4,15 25:13 26:16,20 22:2 26:1,14,19 25:21 28:17
43:1 26:25 27:1,1,5 response 3:24 27:4,12,16,23 29:12,15 30:8
27:6,9,10 28:1 4:14 27:25 28:13 31:2,11 40:23
15:8,16 29:2,4,7,7 45:7 21:1,4 42:17 34:14,16,20,24 47:14,25 48:9
20:25 54:23 55:8,12 42:25 56:1 35:4,18 41:10 48:12 50:10,12
29:7 regulations 3:23 results 9:3 18:3 43:7 46:4 school 1:3 3:4
32:24 4:4,8,9,14 5:21 33:16 47:12 49:11 3:18 10:23
45:14,18 5:23,25 6:20 retain 7:4,10 50:11 52:8 13:20 14:16,18
6:24 25:7 18:25 45:19 53:13 54:2,15 15:22 16:7,8
54:19 rein 47:5 38:23 41:5 2:3,12 3:7 18:6 21:6,21
25:25 42:22 37:1,10,12,15 2:6 45:6 46:12,16
32:5 sensible 28:7 37:22 38:4,12 standard 3:15 48:1,2,3,4
serve 17:10 38:18 39:2,9 30:4 50:24 52:4,5,6
34:1,22 served 30:14 39:13,16,24 standards 9:15 55:19 56:2
35:3,7 31:9 40:12,16 41:19 starting 54:8 statutes 4:1
41:8 serves 33:22 48:24 state 1:22 2:10 statutory 5:12
56:3,4,4 set 9:14,16 speak 32:10 9:24 10:19 9:5 23:21 27:3
10:15,21 12:9 speaks 14:3 11:21 12:2,4 34:4 35:14
setting 19:19 17:17 35:2,10 18:3,3,7,7,11 41:19,21,22
29:21 significant 8:17 28:10 29:1 19:3 20:6 21:8 Stevens 18:13
52:16 spectrum 19:12 22:22 25:24 18:19,21 19:7
4:1,15,22 7:18 spend 32:6,7 33:11,16,19,22 42:2,11,19
6:5,10 similar 9:25 49:17 34:2,7,11,13 stipulate 36:16
7:12 14:22 55:2 spends 10:23 34:22,24 36:6 stop 4:22
8:1 simple 11:8 split 34:9 36:9,11 37:9 stretch 20:25
15:9 18:9 simply 11:19 squared 27:2 37:20 38:3 23:11,13,17
28:11 17:18 35:23 squeak 22:20 40:20,22 41:9 strictly 16:23
35:5,24 40:9 51:12 SRI 1:18 2:6 45:24 46:7 student 31:24
sisters 17:22 23:6 48:7,20 53:4,5 49:10 51:15
situation 20:9 Srinivasan 1:18 53:7 54:3,6,9 students 13:1
36:9 42:14 23:5,6,8,10,12 54:12,13 56:1 15:13 16:16
size 18:6 23:16,19 24:5 56:10 17:20 19:21,23
56:10 sliding 42:14 24:20,24 25:11 states 1:1,13 20:2,8,14
7:3,4 small 14:24 15:1 26:18,23 27:7 18:1 21:6,17 32:25 35:7
16:3,6 15:12 17:12 27:15,17,24 22:15 35:2 41:2 44:19
23:20 18:4 35:3 28:5,15,21 State's 19:2 52:19,19,22
52:20 29:12,14 30:2 stating 4:4 54:8,9
26:16 smaller 34:1 30:9 31:7,16 statistical 3:15 subject 13:3
45:12 smallest 34:21 31:25 32:19 19:15,22 51:24 submit 55:5
34:21 33:5 34:15,18 statistician 11:9 submitted 56:20
Solicitor 1:18 35:23 36:15,25 6:23 8:15 9:19 subsection 12:5
22:14 50:23 38:1,8,17,21 12:10,20,22 subsequently
49:11 sorry 11:24 39:8,14,19 13:24 14:15 55:21
12:12 42:1 40:6,14,18 15:21 17:24 substance 5:17
source 54:11 50:18 41:10,25 42:4 55:16
36:2 Souter 36:15 SRINIVISAN 43:10,12 45:3 suggests 24:22
49:21 38:14 39:6,17 thought 4:19 35:12 39:8 usual 8:11
37:12 46:17 47:1,2,3 17:1,5 29:3 47:10 50:21 V
47:3,5 32:2 43:7 two-part 48:4 v 1:6
37:3 text 7:7,17 27:3 32:15 52:21 typically 52:3 50:22
41:4 27:3,18 28:23 thousands 10:6 values 9:19
45:4 29:13 35:14 three 21:16,17 U 12:22 49:6
54:2 36:19,24 37:2 46:16 52:18 ultimately 44:6 Van 1:16 2:3,12
54:15,16 51:14 unaware 15:8 10:3,11,14,17
15:10 10:17 16:15,15 told 29:5 41:11 44:23 14:13,22 15:17
21:3 16:18,19 28:7 47:7 understanding 16:21 17:9,23
22:15,22 28:19 47:17 top 13:7 14:17 12:13 14:2 18:8,18,20
28:3,5 things 10:16 16:2,8 18:4 18:14 55:16 19:14,24 20:18
31:14 13:5,6,11 21:2 20:11 27:19 understands 21:7 22:17
32:4 39:24 47:8 44:4,19 52:18 36:10 54:17,19,21
35:20 52:14,20 53:22 total 10:18 54:7 understood 28:2 55:25 56:7,17
40:8,9 think 5:5,6 8:1,7 totality 41:1 unexpressed variable 9:15,19
41:7,21 9:11,11 11:6,7 totally 8:25 9:1 43:10 12:22
42:25 13:17 14:10 9:3 unfortunately variation 21:5
15:1,3 16:3,21 touched 36:19 11:9 13:3 vary 53:3
52:7 18:1 19:8 20:4 traditional uniform 53:2 verge 42:17
56:11 22:12 23:12,23 17:13 uniformity 18:7 versus 55:1
25:4,11 27:2,7 trouble 12:13 uniformly 50:9 13:13 16:23
40:3 33:12 34:11 38:21 units 9:13 13:19 views 11:17
40:6 42:9,12 20:16,20 21:18 urban 17:11 virtually 46:14
46:11 47:21 two 14:19 18:15 25:14,15 29:16
25:14,14
51:7,10 work 16:25 1,000 17:16 30 27:19,20 35:15 36:1
29:11 21:16 50:2 44:19 50:4 40:19 41:20
53:23 55:9 53:11 55:17 4 45:15,23 48:7
world 31:19 100 17:15 52:19 46 2:10 96 8:1
worried 26:2 11 22:3 5
wouldn't 14:20 14 22:11 38:20 44:22
15:7 23:14 28:19 16 53:7 50:3 53:1,2
18:5 46:1 52:9 20:13 47:1 11:20 31:18
32:25 53:18 18-year 46:13 35:15 36:1
40:12 write 10:24 19 19:17 37:8,19 38:2
42:8 written 55:19 1974 4:15 38:24 39:12
53:19 wrong 51:21 1976 6:1 8:17 40:19 41:20
12:25 18:9 43:23 45:15
XY 56:5 4:16 21:14 50th 34:4,5,6,10
54:24 Y 46:19 545-page 5:1
38:25 year 29:22 52:23 2 59th 37:7,19
55:20 2 36:19 38:24
7113 56:9
Z 20 15:13 19:16 76 7:7
26:2 29:2
48:19
50:23
89 1:4 22:10
05-1508 1:6 3:4 22:9 94 5:19 8:1
12:8 1 3
5:15 9:6,7
51:3 52:1 1 29:20 3 2:4
31:18
34:9
