IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
DORA B. SCHRIRO, DIRECTOR, :
ARIZONA DEPARTMENT OF :
CORRECTIONS, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 05-1575
JEFFREY TIMOTHY LANDRIGAN, AKA :
BILLY PATRICK WAYNE HILL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 9, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for
oral argument before the Supreme Court of the
United States at 10:56 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
KENT E. CATTANI, ESQ., Phoenix, Ariz; Assistant
Attorney General, on behalf of the Petitioner
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KENT E. CATTANI, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 31
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:56 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in 05-1575, Schriro versus Landrigan.
Mr. Cattani.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENT E. CATTANI
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CATTANI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Ninth Circuit's rejection of a reasoned
State court factual determination and decision is
improper under any deferential standard of review, and
it is particularly improper under the highly deferential
standard of review required under the AEDPA. This
morning I'd like to try to develop three -- three
points.
First, the State court's factual finding
that Landrigan instructed his attorney not to present
any mitigating evidence was not an unreasonable finding
and, in fact, is the most logical interpretation of the
record. Although Landrigan now argues that the record
does not show whether his decision not to present
mitigation evidence was knowing or voluntary, that is
not a claim that was ever developed in State court. He
never alleged in his State post-conviction proceedings
that that, his decision to do that was not knowing or
voluntary.
Secondly, an evidentiary hearing is
unwarranted in this case --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask about the first
one? Does the Constitution require there be no
involuntary?
MR. CATTANI: It would require that it would
be knowing and voluntary, yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So if the record showed
that he didn't get, there wasn't a procedure followed to
voluntarily waive those Constitutional rights, wouldn't
the district court be able to reexamine that?
MR. CATTANI: Well, there's no colloquy
requirement for a defendant to waive presentation of
mitigation. And I think it would have been enough if
the defendant or defense counsel had simply said my --
if the attorney had said my client has instructed me not
to present any mitigating evidence, and that would be
adequate. If a defendant chooses to make a claim that
his waiver was not knowing or voluntary, the burden
would shift to him to do that in a post-conviction
proceeding, and he did not do that in this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How would he make such a
claim in this case where in open court he was asked by
the judge, right, with nobody twisting his arm, whether
it was the case that he did not want any mitigating
evidence introduced? And he said, right, yes, that's
correct?
MR. CATTANI: I agree, Your Honor. It would
be very difficult for him to make that argument and I
suspect that's why the argument was not raised in the
State post-conviction proceeding.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I don't know if you
got to the third point you were going to make. You were
outlining three different points. But it seems to me
that from the very start, what happens is that you and
your brother for the respondent are talking past each
other. You want to talk to us about the adequacy of the
State court's finding. The respondent says what we --
all we want is a hearing in the district court, and
those are two different issues.
We want a hearing in the district court,
i.e., so that we can show the findings are insubstantial
or incorrect. Those, it seems to me, are two different
issues, and I sense the briefs are talking past each
other on this point.
Did you see the same thing?
MR. CATTANI: Yes, I did, Your Honor, and I
think the reason for that is, in our view an evidentiary
hearing is not necessary because the factual finding by
the State court obviates the need for one. An
evidentiary hearing would be developing evidence that
would never have been presented. Given this factual
finding, the State court is in effect saying no matter
what counsel might or might not have developed, it would
not have been presented at sentencing because this
defendant specifically instructed his attorney not to
present any mitigating evidence.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In your view, what is the
standard for when the district court may hold an
evidentiary hearing? I know there's an element of
discretion in it.
MR. CATTANI: A district -- the district
court can order an evidentiary hearing if the defendant
has been denied an opportunity to develop relevant facts
necessary to resolve a colorable claim in State court.
And I think here the defendant fails on two different
points.
First --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's the only time the
district court can hold a hearing?
MR. CATTANI: Well, it has to be through no
fault of his own and if the facts were not developed in
State court. Certainly it's the petitioner's
obligation, a defendant's obligation to present these
claims in State court and the only -- the reason --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, but it seems that if
he doesn't do that, then that's a bar. But if he has
done that, when can he ask for a further hearing?
MR. CATTANI: Well, but that's the point
here. He has not done that. He did not attempt to
develop facts or he was not precluded from developing
facts that would be relevant to a resolution of his
ineffective assistance claim.
If I could, Your Honor, there are two
different parts of that question. First, the facts are
not relevant. The facts that he's seeking to develop in
an evidentiary hearing is this additional, this
mitigation that should have been developed. If, in
fact, his avowal that he did not want any mitigation to
be presented is accurate, then these other facts are not
relevant.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but isn't that the
problem in your argument? Because your argument
assumes, and I think you said this quite candidly a
moment ago, that once there has been a finding that he
informed the court that he did not want mitigation
evidence presented, that in effect is a matter of --
binds him as a matter of law for all time.
And what he is saying here is look, if I had
known that there was this kind of mitigating evidence,
as opposed to what was proffered to the court at the end
of the trial in fact, I would not have made that waiver,
if you want to call it that. I would not have made that
representation to the court. And what I want is an
evidentiary hearing to show that, to show that in fact,
when I said to the court no mitigating evidence, I
didn't mean this.
And he wants a hearing for that. The only
way it seems to me that you can properly win on the
issue that he thus raises is exactly the way that I
think you said a moment ago. That once there is a
finding that he made a statement, whatever its
predicate, a statement that I don't want any mitigating
evidence presented, that is the end of the issue as a
matter of law.
My question is, do you have any authority
for that?
MR. CATTANI: Simply the AEDPA 2254(e). I
don't have a specific case that also would go directly
to that point.
Your Honor, I would also --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Souter's
question highlights an ambiguity in this Ninth Circuit
opinion, for me anyway. Do you understand the hearing
that they directed to be on the waiver question, or is
the hearing that they directed on the alleged mitigation
evidence that he now wants to present?
MR. CATTANI: It seems to me the hearing is
directed at presenting all of the mitigation evidence
that he now wants to present.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Doesn't it have to go to
both? Because I mean, he's saying look, first I want to
show that there's a certain kind of mitigation evidence
that was not proffered, that I didn't have in mind, that
I wouldn't have objected to.
And he then wants to proceed with respect to
his inadequacy of counsel claim based also on the
existence of this kind of evidence that counsel didn't
look to.
There's a dual purpose, I thought.
MR. CATTANI: I would agree with that, but
Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wouldn't agree with it.
I thought that the Ninth Circuit had been very clear
that it did not agree with the district court's
determination that he had waived mitigating evidence. I
thought the Ninth Circuit simply disagreed with that
finding and remanded for a hearing on the mitigating
evidence.
MR. CATTANI: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that so? I mean,
that's what that -- one of the reasons the case was
here, that the Ninth Circuit simply smacked down a
district court factual finding that he had waived any
mitigating evidence. Isn't that what happened?
MR. CATTANI: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it wasn't remanding for
a hearing on whether he had waived mitigating evidence.
It made the determination that he had not waived it, and
then remanded for investigation into what that
mitigating evidence would be.
MR. CATTANI: I don't know that it's
completely clear as to what the Ninth Circuit is saying
can be developed and how that evidence can be used.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's clear at least
that they disagreed with the finding of the district
court that there had been a waiver, no?
MR. CATTANI: That's right, Your Honor, and
I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So it's clear that they
disagreed that the finding was necessarily dispositive.
Is anything clear beyond that? I mean, I guess I'm
hesitant to say I'm raising the same question that the
Chief Justice did, about the ambiguity of what the court
did.
I mean, there's no question that they found
that the -- the State trial court's finding with respect
to waiver or whatever we want to call it was not
necessarily dispositive. I don't think it's clear that
they found anything beyond that, but correct me if I'm
wrong.
MR. CATTANI: The Ninth Circuit ordered an
evidentiary hearing to allow him to develop whatever
mitigation he's proffered in Federal court.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Right. But that could
have, as we said a moment ago, that could have a dual
purpose. One to show the, in effect, the inadequacy or
the nondispositive character of the State court's
finding; and two, to show relief for inadequate
assistance of counsel.
And the question here is that, the immediate
question is what exactly did the State court find with
respect to -- oh, sorry -- what exactly did the Ninth
Circuit find with respect to the State court finding?
And there's no question that the Ninth
Circuit assumed that the State court finding was not
necessarily dispositive, but I don't know that it's
clear it went beyond that, and that's where perhaps you
could help me if I'm wrong.
MR. CATTANI: Well, the Ninth Circuit
clearly held that the State court's determination of the
facts was unreasonable. And that's the problem with its
decision because if the determination of facts was
reasonable, it obviates the need for any further
evidentiary hearing.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, on the waiver point,
let's assume that this case had not come in -- come
here, and you had gone back to the district court
pursuant to the order of the Ninth Circuit.
Surely you would have taken the position, or
you could have taken the position if the evidence
developed that way, that he really knew or should have
known about all this mitigating evidence and he waived.
You certainly could continue to take that position in
the district court.
MR. CATTANI: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And the district court
would say I now have a more full, factual record, and I
make the finding that there was knowing waiver, or there
wasn't.
MR. CATTANI: Yes, but the point we've tried
to make is that he was allowed an opportunity to develop
his claim about whether his -- whether he made that
statement and whether he intended to instruct his
attorney not to present any mitigating evidence. He
submitted an affidavit where he said, if my counsel had
told me there was this evidence of a genetic
predisposition to violence, I would have allowed that to
be presented.
The court -- there was no need for an
evidentiary hearing because the court simply accepted --
accepted as true that Landrigan would have provided that
testimony.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, how could the district
court on remand find that there was a valid waiver when
the Ninth Circuit says on A-17, the appendix to the
petition, for all the foregoing reasons, Landrigan has
not waived the right to assert a claim for ineffective
assistance of counsel?
MR. CATTANI: I think you're correct. The
Ninth Circuit has specifically found that the
determination of facts was unreasonable and found that
Landrigan has established a colorable claim of
ineffective assistance.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it has not waived. Not
that the district court was -- didn't have enough
evidence before it. It says the foregoing, Landrigan
has not waived the right to assert a claim for effective
assistance.
So how can you possibly say that that
question is still open?
MR. CATTANI: Well, I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The district court has to
accept that he hasn't waived. And what it's sent back
for is for all of the facts that show -- that show he
had ineffective assistance of counsel.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask this question.
It seems to me that there are two separate parts to the
waiver issue. One, did he intend to say I don't want to
put on any mitigating evidence?
But then the second part of the question is,
was that statement made knowingly and voluntarily, just
as a guilty plea or something like that has to be.
So is it enough for you to say it's clear
what he intended, or is it also part of your burden to
say that that intent was expressed in a way that was
knowing and voluntary, compliant with the rule that
applies to waivers of constitutional rights?
MR. CATTANI: I think it's clearly enough
simply to say that, as I indicated, even if it had just
been an avowal by the attorney that this defendant has
instructed me not to present mitigating evidence, that
that would be enough.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is that a sufficient
waiver without inquiring as to whether it was a knowing
and intelligent waiver, that he knew what he could put
in, and so forth and so on?
MR. CATTANI: Yes, it is, Your Honor. I
think to the extent that the defendant wants to raise
that, he can raise that in a State post-conviction
proceeding. He should make that type of argument in the
post-conviction proceeding.
And that's not what he did here. An
analogous situation is that -- came up in a case that
the defense, that Landrigan has cited, Iowa versus
Tovar. And this Court expressly noted that the time to
raise a claim -- that case involved whether it was a
counsel -- it was a decision to waive counsel at a plea
proceeding. And this Court noted that the time to raise
that is in a post-conviction proceeding, and that the
burden shifts to the defendant to raise that issue.
And here if you look at the, the petition
for post-conviction relief, if you look at the affidavit
that Mr. Landrigan submitted, there, there is nothing in
there that suggests that "I did not understand what I
was doing when I instructed my counsel not to present
mitigation. I, I did not understand the concept of
mitigation." There's nothing in there to suggest that.
So I would --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't there something that,
isn't he saying implicitly Justice Souter implicitly "I
didn't have this kind of evidence in mind; if I had been
aware of this kind of evidence, I wouldn't have given
that instruction?"
So he is, it seems to me, implicitly saying
well, my waiver was not knowing, in the sense that I
understood there was this kind of evidence and intended
to preclude its introduction? Isn't that clear?
MR. CATTANI: It's clear he is saying that I
would have permitted one type of mitigating evidence.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that's the same thing,
isn't that the same, a way of saying that to that extent
my waiver was not knowing?
MR. CATTANI: He, he's raised to it that
extent as to that particular piece of mitigation. And
the trial court is expressly saying I disbelieve you
when you say you would have allowed presentation of that
mitigation.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And he's saying if you will
give me a hearing, district court, I will try to
demonstrate to you why, why the State court's finding on
that point was unreasonable. The State court made that
finding based on its observation of me at trial and, and
at the sentencing phase; but it didn't give me a, a
further chance to develop my evidence on, on
post-conviction.
And I want a hearing to develop that
evidence in front of you, Federal district court, in
order to prove that the State court's finding in light
of that evidence was unreasonable.
Isn't, isn't it correct that that's what
he's asking for now?
MR. CATTANI: He is, Your Honor, but I would
suggest that there is no further evidence that was
presented that he was attempting to present in State
court regarding whether his waiver was knowing or
voluntary.
JUSTICE SOUTER: How would -- how do we know
that?
MR. CATTANI: How do we know we know that?
Because of the, the affidavit he submitted. And he,
he's required to submit an affidavit to establish a
colorable claim. And, and he's required to allege in
his post-conviction petition that his waiver is not
knowing or voluntary. But the burden is on the
defendant --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you, I don't think you
mean this, but you're not arguing that he just omitted
the magic words not knowing and voluntary?
MR. CATTANI: I don't think, I don't think
he just omitted them. I think he was not raising that
claim.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but, I thought a second
ago you -- you admitted that to a degree he was, because
he is saying implicitly if I had known about this kind
of mitigating evidence, I wouldn't have waived.
Therefore, my waiver was, as to this, not a knowing
waiver.
MR. CATTANI: He raised that as to that one
aspect of mitigation. But it would have been very
simple for him, a simple matter for him to argue I
didn't understand the whole concept of mitigation. I
didn't understand what I was doing.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Look, it would have been a
better affidavit, it would have been better pleading.
We can stipulate to that. But is there, I don't see
there is any serious question that he is arguing right
now that as to this kind of evidence, had I known about
it I wouldn't have waived and therefore, I shouldn't be
precluded from, from getting it in now.
And, and if there's no question about that,
then -- then I think we're just fighting about words.
MR. CATTANI: Well, I think the issue was
resolved by the State court's factual determination that
Landrigan was not credible even in making that assertion
that I would have allowed presentation of genetic
predisposition of violence.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And he says in the
district, he says in the district court: I want a
hearing to show that I was credible. So credible that
the State court finding should be seen as an
unreasonable resolution of a factual issue. I want a
hearing.
That's all he's asking for, isn't it?
MR. CATTANI: I would just suggest that
there is no further evidence other than putting
Landrigan on the stand to say --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, that's pretty good
evidence, isn't it? I mean, he may be a believable
witness on this point. I don't know.
MR. CATTANI: Well, I don't think there was
any need for an, for the trial court to put Landrigan on
the stand having already presided over Landrigan's trial
and sentencing.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If he wants, if he
wants a hearing on that, we'd have to reverse the Ninth
Circuit, right? Because the Ninth Circuit held that he
didn't waive --
MR. CATTANI: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- this claim?
MR. CATTANI: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The part of the
opinion that Justice Alito quoted on page A-17.
MR. CATTANI: That, that's right, Your
Honor. And I think that's why this case should be
relatively straightforward.
Because the Ninth Circuit, the Ninth
Circuit's finding, that the State court unreasonably
found that, that Landrigan expressly instructed that his
attorney not present any mitigation, given that --
that's the problem with the Ninth Circuit's opinion.
Everything else builds on top of that.
If that's an incorrect holding, then the
rest of the ruling is, is incorrect.
JUSTICE BREYER: Even if it is incorrect, if
we -- we don't know precisely what he meant by the words
he said, why doesn't that argue even more strongly for a
hearing? At the hearing he wants to introduce, doesn't
he, his stepparents, or foster parents, a school
teacher, the various others? And he'll say anyone who
listens to those people will see that I have the most
horrendous upbringing anyone could have. The worst
you've ever heard.
And my argument is that if only my lawyer
had looked into this at that moment in the trial, he
would have said in the sentencing proceeding, look what
I can present for you. And if he had done it and told
me that, anyone would have said, "of course, present
it." And I want a chance to show that that's true of my
case.
Now, why shouldn't he have a hearing on
that? No hearing was given him in the State court.
MR. CATTANI: Well, the problem with, that
Your Honor, is that he didn't ask for, for a hearing to
present testimony from, for example, his biological
mother and his ex-wife, who would have presented the
very evidence --
JUSTICE BREYER: In State court he didn't.
MR. CATTANI: In State court in the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I mean, is the
requirement such that when you ask for a hearing in a
State court on a general matter, "I would like to show
through a hearing," then he gives a whole lot of
affidavits of the kind of thing he's going to produce,
that then the State says "no," you go into Federal court
and say "I'm roughly going to do the same thing, I have
a few extra witnesses, some of the people say some extra
things," no, you can't do that?
MR. CATTANI: Well, there is a requirement
in State court that you plead with specificity what type
of claims you're raising in a post-conviction --
JUSTICE BREYER: Didn't he say my claim is
ineffective assistance?
MR. CATTANI: Ineffective assistance --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah. Because he didn't
investigate to discover the horrendous circumstances in
which I was raised, and had he done it, he would have
found roughly this kind of thing, and I would like to
show that he should have done that because it would have
changed the result?
MR. CATTANI: Well, his argument at
State court was not that he didn't investigate that; his
argument in the post-conviction proceeding was he could
have presented that through some other witnesses.
The -- his argument at the trial -- at the
post-conviction --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's not what I
understood his argument that he wants to raise to be.
In his affidavit, it is a different argument. It is the
biological component of violence. "Look, my grandfather
was convicted, my father was convicted," and so the
mitigating evidence he wants to present at sentencing
that is I'm biologically predetermined to commit crimes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The criminal gene argument.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That -- which is
certainly an ambiguous argument to present in mitigation
at a sentencing hearing.
MR. CATTANI: Certainly. And that is, that
is the main point I'm trying to make is that that was
the only thing he was asserting in his post-conviction
proceeding, was that "I would have liked have raised
this argument that I'm generically predisposed to
violence." The rest of the argument I think would have
been frivolous because it was so obvious that he had
restricted, he had limited his counsel's, restricted his
counsel from presenting the very type of evidence that
we're talking about now, this other type of evidence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought all that evidence
was basically before the district court anyway. Didn't
the district court know about all of that when it made
its ruling?
MR. CATTANI: Yes, Your Honor and the trial
court knew about it when it made its ruling.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, the district court
had a proffer, but the district court but had not heard
witnesses, it had not heard evidence.
MR. CATTANI: But, but the focus here is on
the reasonableness of the State court's factual finding.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Sure, but the
reasonableness of factual findings depends on what the
evidence is that can go in on the issue of
reasonableness. And there's a universe of difference
between a proffer of evidence which the district court
says "well, I'll assume that," on the one hand, and on
the other hand, the actual presentation of witnesses
perhaps including Landrigan himself, which the court
actually hears.
You know, you, sometimes you get a lot more
impressed by real evidence than by assumptions you make
for the sake of argument. And that seems to me a world
of difference.
MR. CATTANI: I don't necessarily disagree
except that we're -- the focus has to be on what the
claim was that was raised in the State post-conviction
proceeding; and --
JUSTICE SOUTER: The only thing, but the --
the -- I guess on that point, my only, my only reason
for raising this with you is on that point, it's not
enough to say well, the district court assumed this. Or
for that matter, the State trial court assumed this.
That is not the same thing as putting in the
evidence.
MR. CATTANI: Except in this case we
certainly had the trial court that presided over the
sentencing and had seen Landrigan in person and was
uniquely qualified to make a credibility assessment
regarding the points that Landrigan made in his
affidavit, that "I would have allowed presentation of
genetic predisposition."
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask what might be an
awfully elementary and stupid question? But -- it seems
to me that there's no question about the facts of what
he said. And you can interpret him saying I don't want
any mitigating evidence put it. But isn't it clear that
the waiver of the right to put in any mitigating
evidence at a capital sentencing hearing is a
constitutional right of very important dimensions?
And can that right be waived if the record
does not show whether or not he knew the full right
of -- that is available to every defendant in a capital
case? Namely, he had been advised by his counsel he
could put in all sorts of stuff. Is there anything to
show that there was that kind of waiver here, on the
face of the record?
MR. CATTANI: There, there's not a specific
colloquy that goes through --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Then it is, as a matter of
law, an ineffective waiver. Isn't the Ninth Circuit
dead right, not factually, but just as a matter of law,
that you cannot waive this right unless the record shows
that he's fully advised of the scope of the right that
he's waiving.
MR. CATTANI: Well, first, there's no
authority that I'm aware of that would require any type
of a specific colloquy. I think this record --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's new to me also. I
never heard of it.
MR. CATTANI: And I think that would be --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But why should it be, why
should there be a less complete colloquy for this kind
of waiver than a guilty plea itself? Now I admit
there's no authority on the point. But isn't it
absolutely obvious?
MR. CATTANI: Well, I think the reason
there's no need for one is because a defendant can come
in and if he really believes that his waiver was not
knowing and voluntary, he has an opportunity to pursue
that type of claim in a post-conviction proceeding. And
he can come in and proffer whatever evidence he wants to
proffer if, in fact, that's his claim, that he didn't
understand --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Some kind of waivers, like
waiver to the right to counsel, we do indeed require a
colloquy, because a defendant is not likely to know what
consequences of foregoing counsel are. So the judge
discusses with him and, you know, points out what a --
what a significant decision that is. But it doesn't
take a whole lot of smarts to answer yes or no to the
question, you know, "do you agree that your counsel
should not introduce any mitigating evidence?" I mean,
it's clear on, on its face.
MR. CATTANI: I would agree, Your Honor.
And I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But doesn't that assume
that the defendant know what mitigating evidence is? I
mean, this defendant, I suppose wants to show, "I
thought mitigating evidence was just going to be what
the, these two relatives were going to testify to.
There was really much more, if my counsel had
investigated." And that's not a knowing waiver.
MR. CATTANI: I think that type of argument
was belied by what, what happened at the time of
sentencing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, unless the argument
is, and maybe this is what the other side its going to
argue, that -- that when you make waiver of all
mitigating evidence, knowing as any person knows who's
reached that far in the criminal process what mitigating
evidence is, you must know, in fact, all of the elements
of mitigation that could have been introduced. Which
will almost never be the case. So that it's always
possible after waiving the right to introduce mitigating
evidence to come into the court a year later and say,
"Oh, my goodness, here's the sort of mitigating evidence
I didn't know about at the time. My grandfather was a
criminal. I didn't realize that at the time. And now I
want" -- you know -- "therefore my waiver was
uninformed" and, you know, we go back to square one and
try the case again.
That would always be possible, wouldn't it?
MR. CATTANI: Well, I agree, Your Honor.
And it's because the nature of mitigation is so open
ended, it would be difficult to explain precisely and
have a waiver of every conceivable item of mitigation.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And so are you, are you in
effect then saying that the waiver does not need to be a
knowing waiver in the sense that it needs to be based
upon an appreciation of all the possible mitigation
evidence that in this case might come in? Are you
saying it need not be knowing in that sense?
MR. CATTANI: I think a defendant needs to
understand the nature -- the basic nature and concept of
mitigation. But this case provides a good example --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you're not answering
my question. I -- we all agree that he needs to
understand the basic concept of mitigation. Does his
waiver have to be a knowing one in the sense that I just
described? Or doesn't it? What's your position?
MR. CATTANI: It does have to -- it does not
have to be knowing as to every conceivable aspect of
mitigation.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And it will nonetheless
kind him if he comes in later and says look, I accept
the fact that it's my burden to show at this point that
my waiver was not a knowing one, and that there us
mitigating evidence that I would have let in?
Are you saying that he simply as a matter of
law cannot say that? Or cannot be heard to say that?
MR. CATTANI: He is bound by that, Your
Honor. And if I could --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So -- so the answer to my
question is yes?
MR. CATTANI: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: As a matter of law, he
cannot do what he is trying to do here?
MR. CATTANI: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. CATTANI: And Your Honor, l think here
we have a situation where the defendant is now trying to
proffer evidence that is inconsistent with what counsel
was trying to present at the time of sentencing.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you are -- what you
are saying is that it was sufficient when he said, I
don't want my lawyer to introduce mitigating evidence,
and the trial court said, do you know what that means,
and he said yes?
MR. CATTANI: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That doesn't have to be
fleshed out at all, unlike a Rule 11 colloquy. To see
if he really understands? Do you know what that means,
and he yes and that's the end of it?
MR. CATTANI: I think that is sufficient,
Your Honor. And again, here he's now raising this claim
of genetic predisposition. The sentencing memorandum
that counsel submitted attempted to pore Landrigan as
someone who is basically a good person who committed
this crime because he was under the influence of alcohol
and drugs. This new type of evidence -- and the
sentencing memorandum -- and you'll see that Landrigan
had been evaluated by an expert, who had said he didn't
have any mental deficiencies.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Verrilli.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. VERRILLI: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
I'd like to begin by clearing up what
exactly we did and didn't argue with respect to waiver
and what exactly is and isn't before this Court on that
set of issues in our judgment. I then would like to
spend a couple of minutes on what I think the Ninth
Circuit did and what effect that would have on this
Court's disposition of the case. And if there's any
time remaining. I'd like to turn to the question of
whether we have asserted colorable claims that warrant
an evidentiary hearing here, which is all that we're
asking for.
Now, with respect to this question of
whether we pursued or didn't pursue waiver, I'm afraid
counsel for the State is just wrong about this. It's
important to understand how this comes up. We asserted
a claim for ineffective assistance of counsel, deficient
performance and prejudice. The State asserted as a
defense to that claim: No, no, he's waived.
And the trial judge, the State habeas judge
in the State court conviction ruling, agreed with that
and said, well, yes, he's waived. We then filed a
petition for rehearing in which we said, no, you can't
rely on that defense because it's got to be a knowing
and intelligent waiver under Johnson against Zerbst.
That's at page 92 of the joint appendix.
That motion for rehearing was denied without
any further comment. We then took a petition to review
to the Arizona Supreme Court. That's also in the joint
appendix and I believe the page cite is 101 and 102, in
which we specifically argued that you can't look to this
so-called waiver as a defense to our claim of
ineffective assistance because it wasn't knowingly and
intent.
Now, in the State's response to our
petition, which unfortunately is not in the joint
appendix but is in the record, the State says: No, this
waiver is binding and, furthermore, you're procedurally
defaulted because this procedure was decided on direct
review. But the one thing the State does not say is
that you raised this Johnson against Zerbst issue too
late, it can't be considered.
We then went to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I'm looking at
page 92 of the joint appendix. I don't, I don't see
that.
MR. VERRILLI: I may have the wrong page.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's rather
important, don't you think?
MR. VERRILLI: I'm sorry. I will find it
for Your Honor.
I'm sorry for the delay here. The motion
for rehearing is, I'm sorry, 99, and on 102 is where we
raise it, and then subsequently -- then subsequently we
raise it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that effective? Does
the court have to entertain a motion for rehearing?
MR. VERRILLI: Well, it doesn't have to,
but, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't it your obligation to
raise it in your original motion rather than in a motion
for rehearing?
MR. VERRILLI: Well, there's no -- but the
point is that's not -- when we took this to the Arizona
Supreme Court that's not an argument that the State made
in opposition to our raising Johnson against Zerbst.
Then when we got to the Federal district court we raised
this again, this exact argument in Federal district
court, and the State in Federal district court didn't
object that we had failed to raise this appropriately in
the State proceedings.
We took it to the Ninth Circuit. They
didn't raise the objection that we failed to raise it
appropriately in the State proceedings. The first time
that question has even been raised here is in the reply
brief on the merits in this Court.
And I think that's tied to the next point I
want to make, which is significant, which is as the case
comes to this Court the Ninth Circuit has ruled that we
have met the requirements of 2254(e)(2) and are
therefore entitled to an evidentiary hearing.
Now, what the State is essentially saying
is, well, no, you really aren't entitled to an
evidentiary hearing on this set of issues because you
didn't raise them adequately in the State court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And is it just an
evidentiary hearing on his biological pre determination
to commit violent crime or an evidentiary hearing on the
waiver question?
MR. VERRILLI: On both, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why did -- the
court on page A-17 ruled that there was no waiver. So
why would they then send it back for an evidentiary
hearing on waiver?
MR. VERRILLI: Let me move to that if I
could, because I do think that's significant. I think
the Court has elucidated the two potential readings of
the Ninth Circuit's decision. It seemed to us as we
prepared this case on the merits that the reality is
that the two, the issue of performance and the issue of
waiver, are tied together, because if it comes out after
a hearing that counsel did perform an effective job, a
diligent job of performing the investigation, and did
instruct the client as to what the mitigation evidence
was, then you view the waiver in a different light than
of course you would if the counsel hadn't. So we
acknowledge here that the proper disposition of this
case ought to be a remand for an evidentiary hearing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that wasn't your
assertion even in this motion for a hearing. It wasn't
that he didn't know what he was giving up. It was
rather the sentencing transcript, you say, "does not
establish that Petitioner knowingly, voluntarily, and
intelligently waived his right to present mitigating
evidence. Rather, it shows that Petitioner gave up that
right without thought, in the heat of anger, and in
frustration with his attorney during that particular
proceeding."
MR. VERRILLI: We're trying to establish
there, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that was a factual
matter best, best disposed of by the judge who was
present at the time. And he didn't think it was in the
heat of anger. He did think that it was a valid waiver.
Now, you're raising a totally different issue. You're
saying, oh, he can't waive validly without knowing all
the elements of mitigation that the waiver might
embrace. That wasn't the argument you were making here.
MR. VERRILLI: Your Honor, I want to respond
directly to Your Honor's question, if you'll just permit
me one more thought about the Ninth Circuit and I'll
turn right back to that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. VERRILLI: So in other words, we are
making a more modest request for relief here which, is
affirmance of the judgment sending back for an
evidentiary hearing, but with a recognition that the
evidentiary hearing ought to deal with the issue of
waiver, which should be understood to be left open. I
think we're conceding something here, that waiver ought
to be left open and not definitively resolved. It's
premature to definitively resolve that against the State
without an inquiry.
Now, turning to Your Honor's point, the --
with respect to whether there was a waiver here or not
and what the State judge did or didn't do, something
very significant here that I think the State's argument
just overlooks. There's an assumption in the State's
argument that Landrigan's conduct at the sentencing
hearing itself was a waiver and considered to be a
waiver. But if one looks at the transcript of that
hearing, and this is D to the appendix to the petition
and beginning at page D-4 -- D-3 is where the colloquy
occurs where this alleged waiver happened. The very
next thing that occurs, the very next thing that occurs,
is the trial judge says: Okay, I want to hear from the
mitigation witnesses.
Then the mitigation witnesses say: Well,
we're not going to testify. Then the very next thing
that occurs is the trial judge says: Well, I want a
proffer of what they would have said. Then when -- then
when all that's said and done, the trial judge says to
the lawyer -- - and this is at D-15 -- you got anything
else, and the lawyer says, no, Your Honor, that's all
I've got, all I've got is what's in the sentencing memo
and these two witnesses. Then the judge proceeds to
pass sentence. That's the -- the particularly important
pages are D-20 and 21, and on those pages you will see
that what the judge does is not treat Mr. Landrigan's
statements as a waiver, because if she had treated those
statements as a waiver what she would have said is,
well, here's the aggravation case, Mr. Landrigan has
waived mitigation, he has a right to do that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This is belt and
suspenders, that's all. The -- I don't think any judge
likes to decide a case just on the basis of waiver.
This judge is saying he waived it and even if he hadn't
waived it there's nothing there --
MR. VERRILLI: I respectfully --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- because he wasn't
bringing in at this point the biological -- by the way,
biological proclivity to violence is a mitigating factor
rather than an aggravating factor?
MR. VERRILLI: Let me address your second
question first and then your first question.
I think that that in two senses does not
accurately represent what this mitigation case presented
to the State court and presented to the Federal court is
all about. With respect even to his affidavit, which I
don't think fairly under Arizona procedure can define
the full scope of his claim, but with respect to that
affidavit alone, what it says is not genetic
predisposition. It says the "biological component of
violence." That's the language that Mr. Landrigan's
affidavit uses.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the prior
paragraph says it's because of the history of his
biological grandfather, biological brother, and
biological child. That suggests to me it's a genetic
claim and --
MR. VERRILLI: But one other thing it does
that's very significant, Mr. Chief Justice, is it also
says that these witnesses can attest to the use of
alcohol and drugs by the biological mother when
Landrigan was in utero.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but he knew
about that. He knew about that mitigating evidence at
the trial because his biological mother was there.
MR. VERRILLI: Yes, but what he's saying
that he would have agreed to, it seems to me the only
fair reading in this affidavit, which again I don't
think fairly defines the full scope of what he's allowed
to proceed with under Arizona procedure, but with
respect to this affidavit he's saying, well, if you had
had an expert who could have come in and given testimony
about fetal alcohol syndrome and the organic brain
damage and other impairments that it causes, I would
have cooperated with that. And that's really
significant because if you look at page D-21 of the
appendix to the petition --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How could that be
helpful to him if he doesn't allow his biological mother
to testify about drug and alcohol abuse? What use would
the expert be if the potential predicate --
MR. VERRILLI: Because all the biological
mother would have had to do was to give that information
to the expert. That's a routine matter, for experts to
gather factual information and assimilate it into an
expert opinion and then provide it to the court. That
could have happened easily here.
And I think it's very significant because on
page 21 you'll see that the trial judge makes a
fundamental error about this exact issue. She says:
Well, I'll grant this, I'll take the mother's testimony
as a proffer. I'll consider the possibility of fetal
alcohol syndrome, but all fetal alcohol syndrome
establishes is that the kid will also have a
predisposition to addiction.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The defendant would
have been happy to have his biological mother talk with
the expert, but was unwilling to have his biological
mother say the same thing in court?
MR. VERRILLI: Sure, and I don't think
there's anything unreasonable about that. Those are
very different experiences, but --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand. It
seems unreasonable to me. He was trying to spare his
mother, what, the nervousness of testifying in court?
That's what he had in mind?
MR. VERRILLI: If I -- whatever else
happened, the trial judge here considered this evidence
of mitigation and did a weighing. And the key point I
want to make sure I make here is that therefore any
evidence that this lawyer had prepared, an expert on
fetal alcohol syndrome most prominently and any other
evidence, the trial lawyer could have proffered at the
time and had considered at the time and had weighed at
the time by this trial judge. And that's a claim of
prejudice, it seems to me, that even if one grants, even
if one assumes -- and we dispute it and I'd like too
talk about that -- but even if one assumes that there is
a finding and we can't do anything about it that
Landrigan would not have cooperated in the presentation
of any --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, do you
think it's possible to have a valid waiver of the
presentation of mitigating evidence or is it always
possible that some additional evidence would come up and
you say, what if I had known that, I wouldn't have
waived it?
MR. VERRILLI: I don't think there's a yes
or no answer to that question. It's something --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can't give a yes
answer to whether it's ever possible.
MR. VERRILLI: Yes. Yes, it's possible.
It's certainly possible.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MR. VERRILLI: But I think I don't -- I want
to make sure I don't leave any implication that the rule
we're asking for here is going to open the door to lots
of claims, because I don't think it does for two sets of
reasons. One is a procedural set of reasons and that's
the -- that, we refer the Court to the Blackledge
against Allison decision -- that if -- that it's not
going to be enough in every case for you to plead an
adequate claim and then jump right to an evidentiary
hearing. As the court said in Allison, the district
court has available to it a number of tools that it can
use to test the claim before granting an evidentiary
hearing. So there's a limitation there. Now --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could you do it
concretely, Mr. Verrilli, for this case. The defendant
is being rather obstreperous and says: I don't want any
mitigating evidence; I'm a really bad guy. And that's
how he's trying to portray himself. What -- you said,
and you allow for the possibility that there could be a
knowing waiver of mitigation. What would have had to
transpire in this case to make it a knowing waiver?
MR. VERRILLI: I think that's important, and
hopefully it will help explain why we think that this is
a narrow -- that the rule we're asking for here is a
narrow one, and it's not going to open the door to lots
of claims. It's clear that just like the waiver of any
other fundamental constitutional right to a fair trial,
the defendant's got to understand what mitigation means.
He's got to understand its significance in the
proceedings --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, he certainly
understood that. He said if you want to give me the
death penalty, bring it on, I'm ready for it. The
purpose of mitigating evidence is to prevent the
imposition of the death penalty. He says bring it on.
MR. VERRILLI: And he needs to be assisted
by competent counsel. That's a consistent theme of this
Court's decisions on the Johnson inquiry. And so if you
have a situation in which you have documented that the
client understands what mitigation is -- and frankly I
don't think, with all due respect, Mr. Chief Justice,
this is the kind of documentation that ought to suffice.
But even if you had that, even if you documented that
the defendant understood it, even if you documented that
the defendant clearly waived it and documented that was
done with counsel's assistance, then it seems to me it
is going to be very hard for a habeas petitioner to
plead something that's going to get past --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why isn't the type
of documentation that would be sufficient? He
understands what the consequence of not putting
mitigating evidence on is going to be.
MR. VERRILLI: Well, because I think there
isn't clarity at all that he understands what mitigating
evidence is, what the full scope of it is and how it
could --
THE COURT: He's present in the court while
they're making a proffer of this sort of mitigating
evidence. The judge is quite careful, saying okay, if
he doesn't want the evidence, I want to know what it is.
And he called the two witnesses. And all that this
defendant does is undermine his lawyer's effort to
present the mitigation.
MR. VERRILLI: But again, Mr. Chief Justice,
at the time the trial judge didn't treat that as a
waiver. And so I don't think you can cut off his
ability to litigate an ineffective assistance claim
years later on the ground that it was an ineffective
waiver.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, are you claiming that
-- are you claiming that his attorney did not adequately
represent him at the sentencing hearing with respect to
the question of waiver? In other words, when -- that
the attorney should have insisted that the judge go
through some kind of more comprehensive colloquy with
him about waiver and inform him of certain things about
what he was giving up? Are you making that claim?
MR. VERRILLI: I think, Justice Alito, we're
making a couple of different claims, not that claim, but
a couple of different claims. One is, and it pertains
particularly to a mental health expert, that even if
Landrigan behaved exactly the way -- at 13 -- he in fact
behaved in the counterfactual world in which he had
received adequate representation, that the mental health
expert testimony could have been proffered to the Court,
had it been prepared and developed, would have been
considered, and could have made a critically important
difference and for precisely the reason that
Justice Ginsburg's question suggested, which is that
he's obviously behaving badly in this situation.
What the trial court ruled out of that is,
well, he's an amoral person. What the mental health
testimony would give you is an alternative frame of
reference for making a reasoned moral judgment about
this guy, and could be critically important in
explaining that behavior. So even within the confines
of accepting that the world would have unfolded exactly
the way it did, it was ineffective to have dropped the
ball on preparing that kind of evidence.
Then it's also ineffective in --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I'm not
following you. You mean the mental health expert's
testimony could have gone to whether the judge should
have accepted the waiver?
MR. VERRILLI: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that's what you
were saying, I'm sorry.
MR. VERRILLI: No, to the basic weighing the
mitigation which the judge undertook based on all
proffered evidence. Then beyond that, we're making an
argument that the waiver that, even if you are going to
consider that a waiver, you can't consider it a knowing
and voluntary waiver, knowing intelligent waiver
supported adequately by the efforts of counsel.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that a separate
question, whether it's a knowing and intelligent waiver?
Isn't the question here whether he was prejudiced, which
is a question of fact, which is a question of whether
had he been informed of the possibility of mitigation
evidence relating to a history of family violence, he
would have persisted in blocking the admission of any
mitigation evidence? Isn't that the issue? Not whether
it was knowing and intelligent. That would be a
separate legal question.
MR. VERRILLI: No. I don't think that's the
issue. With all due respect, Justice Alito, I think the
test under Strickland is whether there was sufficient
performance, which we think we have a very powerful
record of here, and then a reasonable probability that
the outcome would have been different. And I think the
inquiry here that the State habeas judge is undertaking
is the reasonable probability inquiry. That seems to me
to be a mixed question that requires --
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, it's a mixed question.
But if the post-conviction relief court found as a
matter of fact that even had he known about the
possibility of this type of mitigation evidence, he
would have persisted in refusing to cooperate -- if
there was such a finding, and know you dispute it -- and
if you were granted a hearing, is it not true you would
have to disprove that by clear and convincing evidence?
MR. VERRILLI: Well, taking our first
argument to the side, our first argument which I've been
discussing about what happened at the hearing, I think
with respect to that argument the answer's no, that
argument stands without any need to disprove the factual
finding, if you assume it is a factual finding, and we
don't concede that.
But if it is a factual finding, then yes, we
would have to disprove it by clear and convincing
evidence, but we think we can do that, and all we're
asking for is a hearing to enable us the opportunity.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the standard? I
ask that because I'm not certain from what I heard
previously -- I think the State was saying that the only
issue that was raised before the State proceeding,
collateral, the State collateral post-sentencing
proceeding, was that you wanted to present evidence that
he had a biological gene, it's a faulty gene, something
like that.
When I've looked at this, it's on page 88,
the motion filed says we have two claims. One claim is
the claim that was just mentioned, it says that -- about
it's from the biological mother, and use of drugs and
alcohol.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where are you quoting from?
I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: Joint appendix A. And then
there's a second one on page 88 that says in addition to
failing to investigate these alternative sources, we
also want to say that counsel failed to explore
additional grounds, and that was the sister. And the
sister was going to testify that the mother -- the
foster mother, Mrs. Landrigan, abused alcohol, and she
has a whole list of things in her affidavit.
So is that still before us? I mean, isn't
that something you want to argue?
MR. VERRILLI: Absolutely.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MR. VERRILLI: Thank you, Your Honor, for
bringing us back to that question.
JUSTICE BREYER: And then the claim would be
this: You want a hearing in which you're going to
present the sister, the Landrigans, what they did , what
the school says, what happened to him at school, all
things that are there in Affidavit 5 which was in the
State court, and that the biological gene. And you want
to say, am I right, I don't want to put words in your
mouth, and you want to say that given all this, had this
been looked into and presented to the defendant, the
defendant would not have said don't present any of that,
it would have been presented, and it would have made a
difference.
What -- is that what you want to do?
MR. VERRILLI: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MR. VERRILLI: With one addition, which is
this one, fetal alcohol syndrome expert testimony is
very important.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, with that too.
MR. VERRILLI: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, what the Ninth Circuit
said is, we'll give you a hearing. We don't know if
you're right or wrong. What's the standard for giving
you the hearing? I -- a lot of things in the law aren't
always written down exactly, and I was under the
impression that trial judges often give hearings on what
you might call seat of the pants. I'd like to hear more
about it. I've been on appellate courts where rightly
or wrongly we've said, I just think I'd like to know
more about this. I can't quite understand it. Let's
have a hearing. And we're going to tell the trial judge
to do it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Verrilli, I thought you
already conceded that the Ninth Circuit did not ask for
a hearing on this question of whether he had waived,
effectively waived mitigating evidence.
MR. VERRILLI: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That isn't what the Ninth
Circuit said.
MR. VERRILLI: Well, but --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It found that he had not
waived mitigating evidence. So what --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not actually talking
about waiver. My question was just generally what I
asked. What is the standard there on whether you get a
hearing?
MR. VERRILLI: Justice Scalia, would you
permit me to answer that question, and I'll come back to
Your Honor's?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Whatever.
MR. VERRILLI: Thank you. The -- with
respect to the standard, there are two things that we
have to show and if we do, we're entitled to a hearing.
One is that we're not disentitled under the analysis
under Section 2254(e)(2) as explicated in the Court's
Michael Williams decision, to show that the court below
found it, it was not raised in the cert petition. We
pointed out in the brief in opposition that it wasn't
raised, it had nothing about it. That's established and
the case comes to the court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is established?
That you've satisfied (e)(2)?
MR. VERRILLI: That (e)(2) does not apply to
us proceeding to an evidentiary hearing.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why, because you
satisfy it or because it doesn't apply?
MR. VERRILLI: Because the -- there is no
lack of diligence here that would trigger us meeting the
heightened requirements of (e)(2), and therefore it
doesn't apply to bar us. That's the theory.
Now, with -- the other thing we have to
show --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, you'll
just have to bear with me.
MR. VERRILLI: I'm sorry, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you're saying you
satisfy (e)(2)(A)(ii), because there's no lack of
diligence. Don't you also have to satisfy (e)(2)(B),
which is to show that no reasonable factfinder would
have found him guilty, in other words words subject to
--
MR. VERRILLI: No. No, Your Honor. That's
-- as we understand the Michael Williams decision
interpreting that provision, Your Honor, those
requirements only kick in in a situation where you
haven't shown diligence and therefore you're at fault,
and you can overcome your fault by meeting those
heightened standards. They don't apply in a situation
where you have been diligent and therefore you're not --
they don't apply to you at all.
With respect to the -- what else -- with
respect to what else we'd have to show, we'd have to
show that -- and this is the Townsend standard, which
nothing has changed -- that we've alleged facts which,
if proven, entitle us to relief. Those are the two
things we have to show and we've done both of those
things.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And the district court has
substantial discretion in determining whether or not to
grant that hearing on that basis.
MR. VERRILLI: And the Ninth Circuit -- and
it seems to us actually, Your Honor, under Townsend in
that situation the hearing's mandatory. The district
court would have discretion under habeas, under habeas
practice, to hold a hearing as a discretionary matter
even in a situation where we haven't shown a mandatory
entitlement to it. So there is discretion there.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Part of that discretion
is, and you've been careful to say this, that there's a
likelihood of a different result?
MR. VERRILLI: Yes. Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it seems to me that
that is the difficult part of your case based on this
evidence.
MR. VERRILLI: Well, but I think -- what I
think is important there is that that issue ought to be
decided after an evidentiary hearing when you know what
it's going to be. It's premature to decide that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, we know what the
fetal alcohol testimony is going to be.
MR. VERRILLI: Well, that's true.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And we could make a
determination or the court of appeals could make a
determination or the district court could make a
determination how likely that would to be affect the
result.
MR. VERRILLI: Well, they could, but it
seems to me not until you actually hear the expert
testimony, and then we have all of the other testimony
that Justice Breyer detailed that you'd want to
consider.
I do want to try to come back,
Justice Scalia, to your point. Yes, we acknowledge that
the Ninth Circuit went too far in the way Your Honor
described. But you don't get from that conclusion to
the conclusion that you ought to grant the relief that
the State is requesting here, which is a reversal and
directing dismissal of the petition, because to get to
that you have to show that there's no set of
circumstances under which we could prevail.
We're -- our position is an intermediate
one, which is that the right answer here is that the
judgment to send it back for an evidentiary hearing was
correct and should be affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you do
with -- following up on Justice Kennedy's question, the
dissent took the position in the Ninth Circuit that the
mitigating value of any proven, quoting A-24, "genetic
predisposition to violence would not have outweighed its
aggravating tendency to suggest that Landrigan was
undeterable and even from prison would present a future
danger"?
MR. VERRILLI: I think the answer is that
that is an inappropriately truncated assessment of the
mitigation case and a wrongly focused assessment of the
mitigation case, which ought to Focus on the troubled
history and the fetal alcohol syndrome, which provide a
medical mental health explanation for his conduct which
is quite different and that -- and so that's what ought
to be balanced.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That was presented
in the State court proceedings.
MR. VERRILLI: That's not correct, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The biological
mother's abuse of alcohol and drugs.
MR. VERRILLI: The fact that she used
abusive -- that she abused alcohol, but not the medical
expert testimony explaining what effects that would
have. That's precisely the thing that wasn't there and
that was the big problem.
So I do think that that -- that's why we
need an evidentiary hearing, to develop that. This
weighing, by the way --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think the
State trial court had no familiarity with fetal alcohol
syndrome?
MR. VERRILLI: Well, if you look at page
D-21, Mr. Chief Justice, what you'll see is actually
proof in the transcript that she had no familiarity,
because she said on page D-21 all it does is predispose
you to being an addict yourself. But fetal alcohol
syndrome is a much, much broader set of impairments that
can bear directly on one's, one's moral culpability.
If I could just say --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I have just one other
question on a different matter. In Judge Bias's
dissent, Judge Bay's dissent, he quotes a letter from
the Petitioner, the Petitioner does not want to proceed
with this appeal and wants the execution scheduled. Can
you comment on that?
MR. VERRILLI: Sure. What there was that
the Ninth Circuit, upon receiving this letter, contacted
counsel for Mr. Landrigan, asked him -- asked them to go
visit him in prison and find out what's going on. They
did so. They reported back to the Ninth Circuit that
Mr. Landrigan did in fact want to proceed with the
appeals. He has continued to want to proceed with the
appeals, signing the IFP papers, et cetera, and it turns
out there were neurological problems that were
afflicting him, very serious, at the time. So that's
what happened.
If I could say in conclusion, just remind
the Court what it said in the first Norrell decision,
that even in the world of habeas there's a difference
between deference and abdication. And in a situation
like this one, in which the State court has not afforded
an evidentiary hearing and has not allowed the
development of the evidence that bears directly on
Mr. Landrigan's claims, it would be a form of abdication
to hold that he can be conclusively barred from
proceeding further, even to an evidentiary hearing, on
the basis of the present record.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Verrilli.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:55 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
38:23 39:14,17 analogous 15:11 Ariz 1:18 45:1,4
58:5 36:14 answer 27:5 arm 5:1 42:16
afflicting 57:12 42:2 51:9 55:3 57:5,5 14:23
aggravating answer's 47:25 42:8 43:4 48:7 A-17 13:13 20:5
37:25 appeal 57:1 assert 13:15,25 a.m 1:16 3:2
11:13 18:6 57:9,10 31:19,21
agreed 31:24 appendix 13:13 assessment 25:3 back 12:10 14:6
54:19 AKA 1:8 37:5 39:23 assimilate 40:6 36:10,14 49:11
50:3 54:6 appreciation 44:1,22 balanced 55:21
49:2 56:12,18 appropriately assisted 43:16 bar 7:4 52:6
45:14 allege 17:20 31:6 49:7 assumed 11:23 46:14 53:24
45:1 37:7 53:5 argues 3:21 assumes 7:21 46:13
Allison 42:12,15 arguing 17:25 41:13,14 basically 23:16
19:3 25:5 21:1 22:13,15 attempted 30:17 bear 52:10
alternative 23:1,3,9,10 17:12 bears 57:20
17:18,19 11:1 36:6,25 37:2 3:18 4:18 6:8 2:4,6 3:7 31:2
14:17 15:18 certain 9:10 9:14 12:25 57:2
46:15 53:20 character 11:15 claiming 44:25 component
34:15 31:11 34:6 39:24 40:17 clear 9:21 10:15 conceivable
35:2,11 37:25 41:18 42:1,5 10:17,22,24 28:16 29:7
38:4,15 42:13 43:11,21 44:4 11:6,25 14:16 concept 15:24
40:3,18 42:20 43:1 44:19 51:22 16:10,11 25:11 18:14 28:24
48:14,19 51:21 53:24 52:1,9,11,12 27:8 43:6 29:3
56:1 55:16,17 58:3 55:6,22 56:1 47:21 48:5 conclusion
Cattani 1:18 2:3 child 39:2 clearly 12:3 conclusively
5:5,24 6:14,23 Circuit 8:25 client 4:18 35:7 concretely 42:20
22:4 14:4,21 15:5 19:24 20:9 25:23 26:7,12 44:6
48:8,23 16:11,16 17:10 25:25 31:10 27:1 30:11 consequences
50:1,5 17:17 18:2,11 33:25 34:7 37:6 45:5 27:2
51:4 18:25 19:12,18 36:9 50:7,20 colorable 6:17 consider 40:13
20:1,3,6 21:10 50:25 53:12 13:20 17:20 46:17,17 54:17
26:16 27:9,18 circumstances 41:21 51:9 Constitution 4:6
30:9,14 cited 15:12 31:19 34:7 25:14 43:7
23:22 24:5,8 54:3 13:19 19:1 discretion 6:13
48:5 31:7,24 32:7 27:4 35:1 determining 53:16
41:16 34:13,20,25 decisions 43:18 6:16 7:8,13 disentitled
13:17 40:20 41:1 defendant 4:15 17:2,4 56:9 dismissal 54:24
55:5,24 42:11,15,16 4:17,20 6:8,15 developed 3:24 disposed 35:25
45:21 47:15 15:6,18 17:23 10:16 12:14 31:11 35:10
11:17 53:9,15 54:9 27:1,12,13 developing 6:3 10:23 11:6,24
14:8 54:10 55:23 28:23 30:1 7:8 disprove 47:21
56:12 57:15,18 40:17 42:20 development 48:1,5
25:18 courts 50:14 43:24,25 44:17 57:20 dispute 41:13
27:2,6 court's 3:17 49:20,21 difference 24:4 47:19
30:2,17 5:15 9:22 11:4 defendant's 7:1 24:13 45:18 dissent 55:8
31:18,20 11:15 12:3 43:8 49:23 57:16 56:24,24
41:18 16:23 17:6 defense 4:17 different 5:11 district 4:13
46:19 19:1 23:25 15:12 31:22 5:17,20 6:18 5:16,18 6:11
57:5 31:11 43:18 32:2,10 7:12 22:21 6:14,14,22
credibility 25:3 deferential 3:12 40:23 45:9,10 12:10,17,19
19:7 deficiencies 55:20 56:23 16:22 17:5
34:16 deficient 31:20 28:15 53:24 23:17,21,22
4:13 27:25 28:8 definitively diligent 35:6 53:9,14 54:10
5:16,18 critically 45:17 36:19,20 52:25 documentation
45:25 degree 18:6 dimensions 43:22 44:5
7:2,23 culpability delay 33:5 25:14 documented
10:6,19 56:20 demonstrate direct 32:17 43:19,23,24,25
cut 44:21 16:23 directed 9:2,3,6 doing 15:23
12:10,17 denied 6:16 32:5 directing 54:24 18:15
13:7,8 D DEPARTME... directly 8:21 DONALD 1:20
14:5 D 3:1 37:5 1:4 36:8 56:20 2:5 31:1
16:18 damage 39:20 depends 24:2 57:20 door 42:8 43:5
17:5 danger 55:13 described 29:5 DIRECTOR 1:3 DORA 1:3
19:6,8 dead 26:1 54:21 disagree 24:14 dropped 46:3
20:10 deal 36:16 detailed 54:16 disagreed 9:24 drug 40:1
48:19 establishes 46:2 50:11 6:1,4 10:6 6:20 7:12 9:9
40:15 example 21:12 12:20 19:1,9 26:5 34:2
9:4,6,10,15,23 experiences 49:1 focused 55:16
16:4 40:19 41:7 fairly 38:18 foregoing 13:14
51:23,24 18:20 19:13,16 experts 40:5 56:12,16 forth 15:4
21:14 22:24 expert's 46:7 family 46:25 foster 20:21
28:18 25:11,13 26:21 explaining 46:1 fault 6:24 52:22 13:18,19 20:11
27:7,12,14,24 56:5 52:23 22:10 47:15
35:5 29:13 30:2,6 55:19 Federal 11:11 frame 45:23
48:13 50:22 extra 21:24,24 fighting 18:24 44:10
34:15,16,21 45:12 46:23 10:18,23 11:4 32:16
42:14,17 51:25 57:8 12:21 16:23,25
exactly 8:12 12:4,5 13:19 findings 5:19 48:14 49:17
guess 10:24 51:14,25 53:11 39:20 56:19 4:18 6:8 14:24
25:6 guy 42:22 45:25 hearings 50:12 important 25:14 5:19
38:20 hearing's 53:14 31:19 33:2 intelligent 15:3
55:9 H hears 24:9 37:20 43:2 32:3 46:18,21
42:19 53:15,15 57:16 52:24 imposition 35:17
happened 10:7 help 12:1 43:3 impressed 24:11 intended 13:1
42:1 40:8 41:4 hesitant 10:25 50:12 intent 14:18
45:23 47:24 49:15 he'll 20:22 improper 3:12 32:12
57:13 highlights 8:25 3:13 intermediate
21:9 happy 40:18 HILL 1:9 11:14 interpret 25:10
49:19 hard 44:2 history 38:25 inadequate interpretation
50:9 55:19 53:16 57:22 55:15 52:20
24:3 50:13 54:14 Honor 5:5,24 inconsistent 27:7 28:4 30:6
45:4 heard 20:25 7:11 8:23 9:19 30:2 introduced 5:3
23:22,23 26:9 10:8,20 15:5 incorrect 5:20 28:2
27:14,15 5:18 6:1,3,12 27:9 28:13 ineffective 7:10 investigate 22:8
37:12 6:15,22 7:5,14 29:17,25 30:15 13:15,21 14:8 22:14 48:25
43:5 8:7,10 9:1,3,5 33:4,12 34:18 22:5,6 25:25 investigated
46:16 9:25 10:10 35:23 36:7 31:20 32:11 27:17
50:17 11:10 12:7 37:17 49:10 44:22,23 46:3 investigation
57:6 13:8 16:22 52:18,20 53:13 46:5 10:12 35:6
30:18 19:23 20:20,20 Honor's 36:8,22 inform 45:6 involved 15:14
28:7 25:13 31:14 horrendous informed 7:23 14:11 15:18
34:9,12,15,16 20:24 22:8 46:24 18:25 19:9
54:22 35:13 36:15,16 I inquiry 36:21 35:3,3 36:3,16
35:12 23:17 24:10 29:15,21 50:10 35:25 40:5
43:18 43:11,21 44:4 knowing 3:23 left 36:17,19 21:17 27:7,13
48:23 45:19 46:6,11 14:19 15:2 letter 56:24 57:4 means 30:7,12
35:25 49:9,12 50:1,5 26:19 27:17,24 liked 23:8 medical 55:19
37:9,13 50:7,19,24 28:19,22 29:4 likelihood 53:21 56:4
51:2,4,8,11,22 29:7,12 32:2 likes 38:4 meeting 52:4,23
40:10 52:1,9,11,12 36:4 42:25 limitation 42:18 memo 37:18
44:14 53:9,19,23 43:1 46:17,18 limited 23:12 memorandum
45:4 54:5,8,16,19 46:21 47:3 list 49:5 30:16,21
47:11 55:6,7,22 56:1 knowingly listens 20:23 mental 30:23
56:23,24 56:11,15,22 14:14 32:11 litigate 44:22 45:11,14,22
45:24 K 18:7,20 41:22 15:19,20 18:16 48:18
KENNEDY 5:9 47:16 21:3 22:22 merits 34:4 35:2
5:9 53:9,19,23 L looked 21:2 52:19
7:3,19 54:5,8 56:22 l 29:25 48:16 49:20 mind 9:11 16:4
9:8,20 Kennedy's 55:7 lack 52:4,13 looking 32:22 41:2
KENT 1:18 2:3 Landrigan 1:8 looks 37:4 minutes 31:9
12:8 3:6 3:4,18,21 13:9 lot 21:20 24:10 mitigating 3:19
13:11,22 key 41:5 13:14,20,24 27:5 50:10 4:19 5:2 6:9
15:1 kick 52:21 15:12,21 19:2 lots 42:8 43:5 8:2,8,15 9:23
kid 40:15 19:14,19 20:11 9:25 10:7,10
18:5 kind 8:2 9:10,15 24:8 25:2,4 M 10:13 12:15
19:5,15 16:4,5,9 18:7 30:17,21 37:25 magic 18:1 13:2 14:12,24
20:2,4,5 18:20 21:21 39:8 41:16 main 23:6 16:12 18:8
21:15,17 22:10 25:20 45:12 49:4 making 19:2 22:24 25:11,12
23:1 26:12,24 29:10 55:11 57:5,8 36:6,13 44:13 27:7,12,14,24
43:22 45:5 Landrigans 45:7,9,24 27:25 28:4,6
25:7 46:4 49:14 46:15 29:13 30:6
26:8,11 knew 12:14 15:3 Landrigan's mandatory 35:17 38:10
27:11,21 23:20 25:16 19:20 37:2,22 53:14,17 39:10 41:20
29:1,9 39:9,10 38:22 57:21 matter 1:14 6:5 42:22 43:14
know 5:9 6:12 language 38:22 7:24,25 8:17 44:7,9,13
10:14 11:24 late 32:20 18:13 21:19 50:22 51:3
32:22 17:15,17,17 law 7:25 8:17 24:22 25:24 55:9
7:15,16 48:1 56:9 36:4 papers 57:10 pleading 18:17
9:3,6,10 needs 28:19,23 okay 29:24 paragraph please 3:9 31:4
15:24,25 29:2 43:16 36:11 37:9 38:25 point 5:10,22
18:12 nervousness 42:5 44:14 parents 20:21 7:6 8:22 12:8
20:12 41:1 omitted 17:25 part 14:13,17 12:23 16:24
28:2,14 neurological 18:3 20:4 53:19,24 19:17 23:6
57:11 once 7:22 8:13 particular 16:17 24:19,20 26:14
35:7 never 3:25 6:4 one's 56:20,20 35:20 29:11 33:17
37:10,11 26:9 28:3 open 4:25 14:3 particularly 34:5 36:22
41:5 new 26:8 30:20 28:14 36:17,19 3:13 37:20 38:9 41:5
43:8,20 Ninth 3:10 8:25 42:8 43:5 45:11 54:19
46:14,24 9:21,24 10:5 opinion 9:1 20:5 parts 7:12 14:10 pointed 51:19
55:16 10:15 11:9,20 20:13 40:7 pass 37:20 points 3:16 5:11
11:22 12:2,11 opportunity PATRICK 1:9 6:19 25:4 27:3
11:13 31:9 33:25 opposition perform 35:5 12:13,16 29:5
34:7 35:1 36:9 33:19 51:19 performance 55:2,8
53:12 54:20 31:1 47:8 42:24 46:24
11:15 ordered 11:9 permitted 16:12 28:20 41:19,21
Norrell 57:15 organic 39:19 persisted 47:1 42:2,3,4
48:19 noted 15:13,16 original 33:14 47:18 possibly 14:2
number 42:16 ought 35:11 person 25:2 post-conviction
O 54:2,22 55:17 45:22 15:7,9,17,20
object 33:23 outcome 47:10 petition 13:14 22:15,18 23:7
48:17 objected 9:12 outlining 5:11 15:19 17:21 24:16 26:20
overcome 52:23 54:24 48:12
obviates 6:2 page 2:2 20:5 petitioner's 6:25 pre 34:15
11:6,24 obvious 23:11 34:20 37:6 Phoenix 1:18 28:15 45:18
26:15 39:22 40:10 piece 16:17 56:6
19:19 37:13 pages 37:21,21 plead 22:2 42:13 18:22
prevent 43:14 proof 56:16 26:7 32:15
48:10 properly 8:11 R 3:1 reexamine 4:13
prison 55:12 proven 53:6 15:16,18 22:20 reference 45:24
probability 47:9 provide 40:7 34:1,1,13 regarding 17:13
19:4 25:6 problem 7:20 provided 13:9 18:11 22:9 rehearing 32:1,5
38:21 12:4 20:13 provides 28:25 23:8 24:16 33:6,10,15
55:10 21:10 56:7 provision 52:20 32:19 33:20 rejection 3:10
procedural 11:14 43:14 51:18,20 relatively 20:8
procedurally pursue 26:19 raising 10:25 relevant 6:16
54:4 procedure 4:11 pursued 31:17 24:20 30:15 relief 11:16
45:16 39:16 19:19 25:11,12 reached 27:25 47:15 53:6
6:9 7:1 57:8,9 24:23 44:6 ready 43:13 remaining 31:12
13:2 proceeding 4:23 real 24:11 remand 13:12
15:23 5:8 15:8,9,16 Q reality 35:2 35:11
20:12 15:17 21:3 qualified 25:3 realize 28:8 remanded 9:25
22:15 23:8 question 7:12 really 12:14 10:12
23:3 24:17 26:20 8:18,25 9:2 26:18 27:16 remanding 10:9
35:17 35:21 48:11,13 10:25 11:3,18 30:12 34:11 remind 57:14
44:12,18 51:25 57:23 11:19,22 14:3 39:21 42:22 reply 34:3
49:14,21 proceedings 14:9,13 18:19 reason 5:25 7:2 reported 57:7
57:24 3:25 33:24 18:23 25:8,9 24:19 26:16 represent 38:15
16:19 55:23 31:12,16 34:3 reasonable 12:6 representation
24:7 25:5 proceeds 37:19 34:17 36:8 47:9,12 52:15 8:6 45:14
process 27:25 38:13,13 41:25 reasonableness request 36:13
8:16 produce 21:21 46:22,23,23 reasoned 3:10 54:23
17:12 proffer 23:22 47:4,13,14 45:24 require 4:6,8
22:16 24:5 26:21,22 49:11 50:21 reasons 10:4 26:6,25
49:20 30:2 37:14 51:5,9 55:7 13:14 42:10,10 required 3:14
55:22 40:13 44:13 56:23 received 45:14 17:19,20
9:11 11:11 50:16 55:20 recognition 4:15 21:18
46:15 quotes 56:24 record 3:21,21 requirements
39:9,24 40:17 32:22 33:1,9 shift 4:22 29:18,21,24
43:11 44:4 36:11 38:2,8 show 3:22 5:19 so-called 32:10
52:12 55:6,22 48:21 50:19,24 11:14,16 14:7 specific 8:21
roughly 21:23 54:19 21:19 22:11 specifically 6:8
36:23 22:10 scheduled 57:1 25:16,20 27:13 13:18 32:9
39:17 routine 40:5 school 20:21 29:11 51:14,17 specificity 22:2
45:2 rule 14:19 30:11 49:15,15 52:8,15 53:3,4 spend 31:9
51:13 42:7 43:4 Schriro 1:3 3:4 53:7 54:25 square 28:10
ruled 34:7,20 scope 26:3 38:19 showed 4:10 stand 19:14,20
ruling 20:16 seat 50:13 53:17 3:14 6:11 48:8
5:13,15 S 48:24 side 27:22 47:23 standards 52:24
S 2:1 3:1 Secondly 4:3 significance stands 48:1
52:14 32:23 37:21 39:5,22 40:9 6:5,17,25 7:2
54:12 9:9 10:15 16:3 seeking 7:13 simple 18:13,13 11:23 12:3
29:14 30:5 sense 5:21 16:8 sister 49:2,3,14 21:16,19,22
13:15,25 38:5 39:12,17 senses 38:14 30:1 43:19 24:16,22 31:18
19:24 44:14 46:12 sent 14:6 45:20 52:21,24 31:21,23,24
25:12 48:10 52:12 sentence 37:20 53:14,17 57:17 32:15,18 33:18
says 5:15 13:13 sentencing 6:7 smacked 10:5 33:22,24 34:2
13:24 19:5,6 17:1 19:21 smarts 27:5 34:10,13 36:20
35:17,19 21:22 24:6 21:3 22:24 sorry 11:20 33:3 36:24 38:16
38:1 29:10 32:15 23:4 25:2,13 33:5,6 46:12 47:11 48:10,11
43:7 37:9,13,15,17 27:20 30:3,16 48:22 52:9,11 48:12 49:17
50:1,5 38:20,21,25 30:21 35:15 sort 28:6 44:13 54:23 55:23
55:3 39:6 40:11 37:2,18 45:2 sorts 25:19 56:12 57:18
49:15 serious 18:19 10:22 11:12 14:14
19:22 10:3,9,17 set 31:8 34:12 17:15,24 18:5 37:23,24
22:19 13:22 14:5 42:10 54:25 18:16 19:5,15 States 1:1,16
37:1 T 2:1,1 28:23 29:25 22:17 23:19 43:8,9 50:16
40:12 33:2 34:5,24 30:7 31:23 understands
14:9 15:1 talk 5:14 40:18 36:18,25 38:3 39:11 40:10 44:6,9
26:11 41:14 38:14,18 39:15 41:4,9,11 43:7 understood 16:9
teacher 20:22 43:2,3,21 44:8 tried 12:23 undertaking
17:18 testimony 13:10 9:24 18:5 trying 23:6 32:14
58:3,5 21:12 39:18 23:15 27:14 29:22 30:1,3 uninformed
46:8 50:3 54:6 46:11 50:19 42:23 uniquely 25:3
Thank 30:24 5:11 turn 31:12 36:10 universe 24:4
44:5 58:1 15:13,16 27:19 twisting 5:1 13:19 16:24
theme 43:17 28:7,8 30:3 two 5:17,20 6:18 17:7 19:9
19:12 thing 5:23 16:13 36:1 41:10,10 14:10 27:15 unreasonably
21:21,23 22:10 41:11 44:20 34:25 35:3 20:10
37:12 39:4 told 13:4 21:4 48:17 51:13 unwilling 40:19
33:18 45:6 49:5,16 Tovar 15:13 26:6,20 27:18 42:17 48:19
42:7 57:3 53:7,8 53:13 47:17 utero 39:8
7:21 8:13
41:8 15:6 17:24 44:20 understand 9:1 41:19
55:18 18:2,2,3,24,25 treated 37:23 15:22,24 18:14 validly 36:4
19:18 20:7 trial 8:4 11:4 18:15 26:23 value 55:9
26:7,10 16:18,25 19:19 28:24 29:3 various 20:22
31:1,3 51:3 warrant 31:13 wouldn't 4:12
33:3,11 waiver 4:21 8:4 Washington 9:12,20 16:5 8
34:18,23 9:2 10:19 11:5 1:11,20 18:8,21 28:12 88 48:16,24
36:7,12 12:8,21 13:12 wasn't 4:11 10:9 41:22
39:4 14:11 15:2,3 12:22 32:11 written 50:11 9
40:3,21 16:8,15 17:13 35:12,13 36:6 wrong 11:8 12:1 9 1:12
42:3,6 17:21 18:9,10 38:8 51:19 31:18 32:25 92 32:4,23
43:2,16 25:12,20,25 56:6 50:9 99 33:6
45:8 26:13,18,25 way 8:11,12 wrongly 50:15
47:5 27:17,23 28:9 12:14 14:18 55:16
49:8,10 28:16,18,19 16:14 38:9
50:2,6 29:4,12 31:6 45:12 46:3 X
51:1 31:17 32:3,10 54:20 56:10 x 1:2,10
32:16 34:17,20 WAYNE 1:9
34:22 35:4,8 weighed 41:10 Y
54:1 36:2,5,17,18 weighing 41:5 Yeah 22:7
55:14 36:23 37:3,4,7 46:13 56:10 year 28:5
56:3,14 37:23,24 38:4 went 11:25 years 44:23
58:2 41:19 42:25 32:21 54:20 Z
46:9,16,17,18 23:14 24:15
22:22 waivers 14:20 36:18 37:12 05-1575 1:7 3:4
38:10,22 26:24 42:8 43:4 45:8
55:10 waiving 26:4 46:15 48:6 1
35:16 8:5,6,15 9:9 50:15 53:5,7 11 30:11
14:19 17:4 19:6,9 52:19 13 45:12
18:1 21:6 25:10 win 8:11
46:18 28:9 30:6 34:6 witness 19:17 2
37:9,13 witnesses 21:24 2 51:23,24 52:5
19:25 49:1,7,13,17 37:19 39:6 21 37:21 40:10
36:4 49:18,19,24 44:16 2254(e) 8:20
57:8,9 20:18 36:12 51:16
13:15,22 wanted 48:13 45:3 49:18
14:6 wants 8:10 9:4,7 52:16,16 3
25:15 9:13 15:6 world 24:12 3 2:4
35:17 19:22,23 20:20 45:13 46:2 31 2:6
41:23 22:20,24 26:21 57:16
