IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
LAROYCE LATHAIR SMITH, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 05-11304
TEXAS. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 17, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for
oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United
States at 10:08 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JORDAN STEIKER, ESQ., Austin, Tex.; on behalf of the
Petitioner.
R. TED CRUZ, ESQ., Solicitor General, Austin, Tex.;
on behalf of the Respondent.
GENE C. SCHAERR, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
California, et al., as amici curiae, supporting
the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JORDAN STEIKER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
R. TED CRUZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GENE C. SCHAERR, ESQ.
For California, et al., as amici curiae
supporting the Respondent 47
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JORDAN STEIKER, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioner 56
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:08 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear
argument first this morning in 05-11304, Smith versus
Texas.
Mr. Steiker.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JORDAN STEIKER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. STEIKER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
This case is here for the second time. In
your summary of reversal, this Court held that
Petitioner's mitigating evidence could not be given
adequate consideration through the Texas special
issues or the nullification instructions. On remand,
the CCA found the error harmless by concluding the
opposite, that Petitioner's jury could give
sufficient consideration to his mitigating evidence,
including specifically the evidence of his 78 IQ,
learning disabilities and troubled background.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did they find it could or
did they find that it did? I thought our holding was
that given the instructions, the jury would not
necessarily take into account those mitigating
factors, and I thought that what the Texas court held
is, yes, that was a possibility, and we have to see
whether that possibility came to pass, which is what
harmless error analysis involves.
MR. STEIKER: I think, Justice Scalia,
what the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So they are not
contradicting the fact that the jury wasn't required
to take it into account, but they are saying
nonetheless, in our view, the jury did take it into
account, and therefore, the error was harmless. That
doesn't contradict our opinion. I mean, you might
want to argue against it on the merits, but I don't
think that will contradict our opinion.
MR. STEIKER: I think it does contradict
your opinion, Justice Scalia. Your opinion said that
Petitioner's mitigating evidence had little or
nothing to do with the inquiries of the special
issues, and your opinion also said that the
nullification instruction, no matter how clearly
conveyed or fully understood by the jury, would not
solve that problem.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right. And that
means that the jury was not instructed to take it
into account. And I think the Texas court is
conceding that. But it's, it's saying, nonetheless,
we don't think that the error made any difference
because, in our view, the jury did take it into
account.
MR. STEIKER: The matter in which the CCA
posited that the jury could take it into account was
the fact that on voir dire, the jurors said we can
follow a nullification instruction and falsify our
answers to the special issues in order to give effect
to mitigating evidence. That was the exact same
proposition that the CCA had issued in its first
opinion that this Court summarily reversed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but it seems to me
it's one thing to use it for the purpose of saying
the instruction was okay. And it's something else to
use it for the purpose of saying even though the
instruction didn't require that, it was a fuzzy
instruction and a juror could very reasonably have
understood it not to allow nullification,
nonetheless, we have satisfied ourselves that the
jury indeed thought it had the nullification power.
I don't see how it contradicts our opinion.
MR. STEIKER: I think what's
contradictory, Your Honor, is that the notion that
the nullification instruction would be an adequate
vehicle was what this Court specifically rejected.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They didn't say it was an
adequate vehicle. I mean, they acknowledged that
that instruction shouldn't be given again because it
doesn't require the jury to do what, what you say the
jury must do, and I think they accept that. They
say, oh, no, I thought it was fuzzy, and didn't
require -- we think the jury did indeed think it had
the power to nullify.
MR. STEIKER: And I would also add that
when you actually look at the voir dire on which the
CCA relied in which it said jurors express no
discomfort, no hesitation about their willingness to
falsify their answers to the special issues, the very
first juror in this case, a lawyer, expressed exactly
the kinds of discomfort that this Court feared and
anticipated with the use of the nullification
instruction.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, Mr. Steiker, may I
interrupt you or interrupt the course of your
argument to get to a more preliminary point before
you get down to details? Do you concede that
harmless error analysis is ever appropriate, is ever
open as an option following an, in effect, a finding
of this kind of instructional error, Penry I
instructional error? Do you concede that?
MR. STEIKER: Justice Souter, we do not
concede that, but nor do we rely on that as a basis
for relief in this case. We believe that the
purported harmless error analysis that the CCA
applied was so interwoven with a rejection of the
Federal constitutional --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I quite agree. I
understand that. Was the, was the issue of the
availability of harmless error raised on your side of
the case in the proceedings back in Texas?
MR. STEIKER: Yes, it was. It was raised
on remand from this Court.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Also on the same
preliminary line of inquiry, are we in as good a
position as the State court to conduct harmless error
analysis, or can we or must we defer to the State
court's harmless error analysis?
MR. STEIKER: I would say ordinarily this
Court is not in as good a position as a State court
to conduct harmless error analysis. Our belief here
is that the, the basis for the State finding the
error harmless was a very unusual rejection of the
conclusion that this, these instructions would
facilitate consideration of mitigating evidence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You agree that the
application of the harmless error analysis is a
question of State law, though, correct?
MR. STEIKER: I do not agree with that. I
think that the application of harmless error
analysis, when it's predicated on a misunderstanding
of Federal constitutional law, is not an independent
basis for decision. It's clearly wrapped up in the
Federal claim, and I think this Court's cases have
clearly so held.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that if there is an
instruction given to the jury and it violates the
Constitution, then we, as a de novo matter, can
determine the harmless error, harmless error inquiry?
MR. STEIKER: It's, it's certainly
possible. I don't think that that's a usual practice
and I wouldn't advocate that here. And this is not a
usual case in which the State has conducted an
ordinary harmless error analysis. The State has
actually in no way disparaged the power and extent of
Petitioner's mitigating evidence.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is the level of
harmless error determined as a matter of Federal or
State law when there is a Federal law?
MR. STEIKER: Generally speaking, it's a
matter of State law with some limitations.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Really. You mean that
they could have something that it has to be harmless
beyond a reasonable doubt and we'd be bound by that?
MR. STEIKER: Well, on direct review,
Chapman clearly says it's a Federal question what the
standard of review may be. And on direct review,
it's undoubted that a harmless beyond a reasonable
doubt standard is required by Chapman.
This case doesn't present the issue on
whether on State -- post-conviction, a State can have
the latitude of requiring greater harm, because on
the CCA's own analysis, the standard of harm that's
applied on State habeas is identical to the standard
of harm that's applied on direct review, the standard
of Almanza, which posits Chapman error, harmless
beyond a reasonable doubt for preserved error, and
egregious harm for unpreserved error.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And, and this was
unpreserved error. I mean, they are not saying this
for everything. They are saying he did not object to
the instructions at the time and therefore our
harmless error standard is -- is more rigorous than
it would otherwise be. What's unreasonable about
that?
MR. STEIKER: And we -- we argue that
there are three independent bases, Federal bases for
finding that the application of egregious harm in
this case to be violative of Federal rights. And I'd
like to turn to the first of those arguments.
Petitioner plainly objected that the
special issues and verdict form did not allow for
consideration of his mitigating evidence. That was
and remains his core argument throughout this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but that's a very
generalized argument, and what he won on was a very
specific point that, that this instruction in effect
required, if they were going to give mitigating
effect, required a jury nullification. That's a very
specific point.
MR. STEIKER: On that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He did not object -- he
did not object to that specific problem. Had he
objected, the court would have said, you know, there
is something to what you say, and I'll give a
different instruction. But he didn't.
MR. STEIKER: Everyone at trial understood
that the special issues on the verdict form were
unalterable, that Texas law required the legislature
to specify what was on the special verdict form.
What the trial court invited counsel to do was to
offer a different form of nullification in the
supplemental instruction that would then interpret
the special issues.
This Court's opinion in its summary
reversal made plain that the problem with
nullification instructions is broad and intractable
and applies to all nullification instructions.
JUSTICE BREYER: What you're going to hear
in a second, I'm sure, because I read it in the
briefs, my understanding of the Texas point is
slightly different. It is this. That under Texas
law, when you file before the, before the trial, a
general objection, unless you make the objection
again when the specific, when a specific instruction
is given, you've forfeited your rights to appeal.
Under Texas law.
And they say that's true of evidence and
that's true here, too. And they say that's just
Texas law, ordinary Texas law. Now --
MR. STEIKER: There's nothing --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what you did, you
didn't make the right objection. Now you come up
here and well, you are out. You can't make any
argument. But -- we are very generous, and we will
let even people who make every wrong procedural thing
still have a shot, if what they have, if what they
are pointing to absolutely egregious. But your isn't
absolutely egregious so you're in the same boat as if
you just didn't have any argument because you didn't
follow the Texas law. Now, I take it, that's their
point. What's your response?
MR. STEIKER: I have special responses,
Your Honor. The objection to the special verdict
form and the special issues was made plain in
pretrial motions and that objection was clearly
recognized by the trial judge at trial and denied at
trial when the instructions were being considered for
the purposes of voir dire.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, you're there in a
Texas court. We're not. We are following Texas law,
they say, and you're wrong. Now, what are we
supposed to do about that?
MR. STEIKER: The court, the Court of
Criminal Appeals did not invoke this basis for saying
that his trial objection was inadequate. They didn't
say that it was made at the wrong time, or in the
wrong -- what they specifically said --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They applied, they
applied a legal standard, the egregious harm
standard, that depends on failure of an objection.
So I would have thought they, they certainly thought
that there was an inadequate objection, or they
wouldn't have applied that standard.
MR. STEIKER: Yes, Your Honor. I -- I
misspoke if I -- I conveyed the impression that they
did not suggest that it was inadequate objection. I
was merely suggesting that it wasn't inadequate in
the sense that it was made at the wrong time,
pretrial or at trial.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The judge, the judge, I
thought, told the lawyers what the charge would be,
and I think also said I can't give a separate charge
on mitigation because that's a job that only the
Texas legislature can do. I am bound by the statute
to give these two things.
I think the judge said that, so it was the
understanding of everyone.
MR. STEIKER: It was the understanding of
everyone. It's reflected in the record in the first
State habeas opinion that the Court of Criminal
Appeals acknowledges that the verdict form was
sacrosanct. That was not going to be altered, so the
nature of the CCA's suggested failing of Petitioner
was that he did not specifically object to the
nullification instruction.
JUSTICE ALITO: It sounds like you're
arguing that the Texas court misapplied Texas law,
and you want us to reverse their application of their
own law about what is an adequate objection.
MR. STEIKER: No, Your Honor. I believe
that the CCA misunderstood the Federal law of the
relationship between Penry I and Penry II. The
failing in this case was a verdict form that made no
mention of mitigating evidence. The nullification
instruction was the State's flawed defense to that
failing.
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, but on the issue of
whether there was an adequate -- I thought you were
arguing that, in fact, there was an adequate
objection. And if the, if the State court held
against you on that point, that's an issue of Texas
law, isn't it?
MR. STEIKER: I don't think it is an issue
of Texas law, Your Honor, because the basis for the
finding that it was inadequate was that he had to
separately object to the nullification instruction as
opposed to what everyone agreed he object to, was the
inadequacy of the verdict form. That was his Federal
claim. And our view is that the misunderstanding of
the nature of the Federal claim was what led the
Texas court to conclude that his objection was
inadequate. I'd also like to --
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I, may I again
interrupt you to just get the context of your
argument? You said earlier that under Chapman,
assuming there is a harmless error issue, that
essentially is -- is necessarily a Federal issue.
And therefore, I take it, the basis of your point
here is, if that is a Federal issue, then the
adequacy of actions of counsel to raise it is also a
Federal issue. Is that correct?
MR. STEIKER: That is correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is my understanding --
MR. STEIKER: That is correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Thank you.
MR. STEIKER: I'd like to make it clear --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do we make up our own
procedural rules, too? I mean, why, why -- why is it
just a Federal judgment as to whether it adequately
complied with the Texas rule? Presumably we should
make up our own rule.
MR. STEIKER: I don't think you need to
make up --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why not? You say it's a
Federal question.
MR. STEIKER: It's a Federal question
about what the nature of the claim is, and if the
State's misunderstanding of the Federal claim was
what was intertwined with its conclusion that it was
an inadequate objection, that is a misunderstanding
of Federal law. We also believe that the procedural,
that the application --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- that's a little
bit different from your, from your response to
Justice Souter. You are making a much narrower
argument. You, you don't --
MR. STEIKER: I believe our, I believe our
right to be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't assert that in
every case when there is a procedural objection in a
capital case or any case involving Federal law,
Federal law will determine whether the procedural
objection is adequate?
MR. STEIKER: I agree with that fully,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you do, but you do
take that position with respect to a harmless error?
MR. STEIKER: I think that the question of
whether an error can be deemed harmless is always a
Federal question. Chapman says as much.
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right. If we assume,
for the sake of argument, that there is disagreement
on that point, are there any cases of this Court on
the matter of adequacy of State procedural bars that
would support you, even on the assumption that it's a
State, not a Federal issue?
MR. STEIKER: Well, clearly Ake vs.
Oklahoma holds that if the State invocation of the
procedural rule is dependent on a judgment about
Federal law, and that judgment is incorrect, it is
not an independent basis for decision under the
independent adequacy grounds.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What about the case, the
name of which I cannot think of, to the effect that
requiring procedural action by the defendant which
would simply be a useless formality and so on?
MR. STEIKER: That's Flowers.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's Flowers. All right.
Wouldn't, wouldn't that be authority that you would
invoke, in the, in the sense, as I understood your
earlier argument, that the, that the pretrial motion
and the adjudication of that made it plain to
everybody what the, what the issue was, and therefore
requiring anything more would -- would in effect
violate the Flowers rule?
MR. STEIKER: I agree with that, Justice
Souter. I think that to apply the default in these
circumstances where everyone was plainly aware of his
concerns about the inadequacy of the verdict form in
special -- and the special issues, would be imposing
too high and too excessively burdensome a requirement
for the preservation of the Federal right. I do also
want to argue that there is a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is that --
just, why is that too burdensome? What's so
burdensome about saying I object to that instruction?
MR. STEIKER: Well, he did --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're saying,
there is a difference between saying it would have
been futile and saying it's high and burdensome, and
I'm just wondering what your specific point is.
MR. STEIKER: My specific point is once he
has made it plain -- and this is all that Texas law
itself says is required -- once he has made it plain
that he objects to a special verdict form which
cannot allow for the consideration of mitigating
evidence, and this Court's holding is that that is
precisely the error in this case, that no
supplemental nullification instruction could correct,
he has plainly made clear what his objection was and
there was nothing else he could do.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I, may I ask this
question about your position? Is it your position
that they should not have applied any harmless error
review, or that they applied the wrong standard? And
if it's the latter, what was the standard they should
have applied?
MR. STEIKER: We believe it is the latter.
That we are assuming that harmless error analysis
could apply here without conceding that it's
necessarily applied, but assuming for the purposes of
this case that it does apply, it should have applied
the Chapman standard, which is their standard for
preserving --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It wouldn't be
preserving the Chapman standard if it was Federal
collateral review, would it?
MR. STEIKER: No. It would be under
Brett. It would be a different standard. But Texas
law for jury instruction claims clearly states that
for preserved error, the standard is Chapman.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's preserved error on
direct review, isn't it? On page 23 of their brief
there's a footnote that, the red brief, that at least
claims to describe the sort of the structure of Texas
law, and I thought under Texas law you got a Chapman
analysis only if you were on direct review and had
preserved error. Is that correct?
MR. STEIKER: I think that the CCA's
position and Respondent's position is that Almanza
applies dually on direct review and post conviction,
and that that's that's their explanation for why the
State court didn't impose a procedural default on
State habeas. And one of our views is even if you
don't agree that under Federal law this objection was
inadequate, we believe that the State could not in
effect change its mind about the adequacy of his
trial objection only after this Court summarily
reversed its rule on the merits. And we think there
are --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it
didn't have to reach the harmless error question
after it made an erroneous determination that there
was no error at all. When the case came up here and
the Court determined there was error, then it was
necessary to reach it. I don't see that it's
changing its position at all.
MR. STEIKER: I think it is changing its
position. When four judges signal that this may be a
procedural impediment in the case and the court
declines to embrace it, I think that is a signal to
this Court that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wouldn't it be
normal exercise of judicial restraint to say, we
don't have to reach out and decide whether this error
was harmless if we've already decided there's no
error at all?
MR. STEIKER: I think it would not be in
the case of State habeas, for this reason. The vast
overwhelming number of cases that proceed into State
habeas are on their way when they're final into
Federal habeas, and the State court was abandoning
this argument for Federal habeas. That is, it was
removing any procedural impediment to a merits
review.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I just don't -- you
say whenever, whenever a court decides the case on
the merits instead of using an intervening procedural
objection, the procedural objection is waived.
MR. STEIKER: No, I do not make that, I do
not make that broad argument, Your Honor. I think in
the special circumstances of State habeas, where, as
this Court knows, 99 percent of cases are on their
way to Federal habeas, and the State does not adopt
this procedural impediment which would from a
judicial --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Especially in capital
cases, courts don't like to say, oh, you know, yes,
you may be innocent but there's this procedural
objection. I think most courts --
MR. STEIKER: I'm afraid that's not my
experience with the court of criminal appeals.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's my experience
with a lot of courts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And it's a very
bad -- I think in the long term in the broad category
of cases, it would be a very bad solution for
defendants, because what's going to happen, once a
court's determined there's no error at all, it's much
easier for them to say, oh and by the way if there
was it's harmless. And if they did that and then it
turns out there was an error, you're going to be back
here saying, well, don't be bound by their harmless
error decision because they thought there was no
error at all, so they didn't focus on it carefully.
I would say the way they approached it in
this case is the more desirable way. If you don't
think there's an error don't go on and decide whether
it's harmless or not in the abstract.
MR. STEIKER: In the vast majority of
cases, Chief Justice Roberts, the courts in Texas
take that approach, which is if there is a procedural
impediment to the case they flag that procedural
impediment, rule on alternative grounds, and I think
that is good evidence that in this case when four
justices urged a procedural element --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why, why, why do you say
there are a lot of cases where it doesn't matter? I
would have thought every case it mattered. Look,
isn't it an absolute rule that there's a Federal
issue in a case and there's a State ground, the State
ground typically is a failure to raise an objection,
and a State court says the Federal ground is what
we're talking about. They say nothing about the
State ground and they decide the Federal ground. The
defendant goes to a Federal court and he says, I'm
entitled to be released because they got the Federal
ground wrong. I thought it's a hundred percent the
case, and this is where you'll correct me, that it's
now too late for the State to raise the State ground
but the State's waived their adequate and independent
State ground and that if they try to raise it again
the answer is always, not some of the time: I'm very
sorry, State; you're out of luck; you should have
decided it on the State ground and not reached the
Federal ground.
MR. STEIKER: I think that's exactly
right, sir.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why wouldn't that be the
case? Suppose the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose the State --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't there a difference
between waiving it as a procedural bar and waiving it
as an objection to the proper standard of review?
MR. STEIKER: We don't think it's a
difference, Your Honor, because we think the
underlying fact, the adequacy of the trial objection,
was what obtained. And I'd like to point out --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Who gives the State court
the power to, as you say, waive that objection? I
can understand when you say the prosecutor didn't
object. It's the prosecutor that has the power to
forfeit certain arguments on behalf of the people
which he chooses not to raise.
MR. STEIKER: I think "waiver" might not
be the right word.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --
MR. STEIKER: But it's clear that if the
State court does not rely on a procedural impediment
when the case goes into Federal habeas that
impediment cannot be reintroduced in the case as a
separate ground of decision.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But even if it is,
logically anterior to consideration of that
procedural impediment is a particular ruling on the
merits and the State court didn't make that merits.
They thought there was no error. It is logically not
necessary for them to decide whether an error is
harmless if they don't think there's an error, and to
say that they waive that, that later ground I would
have thought would be very surprising. Why do we
remand these cases for further proceedings not
inconsistent with our opinion if there's nothing
further to be considered?
MR. STEIKER: I think that the concerns
for judicial economy in this case would have dictated
that if the State court believed that the trial
objection was inadequate, it would have rested its
decision on that ground to essentially preclude
merits review of that Federal constitutional issue.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Otherwise you have a
Supreme Court decision that the State court can say,
thanks, thanks, that's very interesting advice, but
we -- there was a procedural default here. Although
we bypassed it the first time, we're not going to
bypass it after the Supreme Court has told us what
the Federal law is.
MR. STEIKER: I think it's a special risk
in State habeas when the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it would be a
special risk if you, if you, if you allowed them to
raise the bar, allowed a State to raise a bar to
consideration of the issue.
But I want to go back to your answer to
Justice Stevens' question. You, you say you draw no
distinction between the, the procedural failing as a
bar to raising the issue and as a basis for
determining a standard of harmless error review
later. I don't understand why you, you can maintain
there is no distinction because if they may not
consider it as the basis for their, their standard of
harmless error review, assuming we have such a thing,
then what are they supposed to use as their standard?
Your answer I take it is Chapman, but Chapman as I
understand the statement of Federal law would not
apply -- State law -- Chapman would not apply in
these circumstances. And if you were in a Federal
court and this were a Federal conviction Chapman
wouldn't apply on collateral review.
So it seems to me that you've either got
to accept the distinction between procedural error as
bar to issue, procedural error as basis for standard
of review, or you have no way to figure out what the,
what the standard of review should be.
MR. STEIKER: Well, we would take the CCA
at its word that the Almanza standard's appropriate.
But if the underlying fact of the adequacy of the
trial objection has basically been accepted by the
State court, we don't believe that on State habeas it
could reintroduce the inadequacy of that.
I'd like to reserve if I may the remainder
of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
counsel.
Mr. Cruz.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF R. TED CRUZ
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. CRUZ: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
Two postulates govern this case. First,
reconciling Jurek and Johnson and Graham on the one
hand and Penry II and Tennard and Smith II on the
other hand is not an easy task and State and Federal
courts have struggled for two decades to draw the
appropriate lines and to faithfully apply this
court's Penry jurisprudence. Second, the usual
default rule in both State and Federal court is that
most constitutional errors are subject to harmless
error review.
Petitioner suggests that the State habeas
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: I take it that is not an
issue before us?
MR. CRUZ: It is an issue that on the
reply brief Petitioner has essentially conceded. In
footnote 5 Petitioner states that he is not seeking
reversal on the basis that Penry error is structural
error. But that is the issue of what the Court of
Criminal Appeals did to us.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the Penry error, even
if not structural, is not subject to harmless error
review and you could say that that distinction is
possible because Penry has a built-in harmless error
or a harmful error component. But as I understand it
that's not -- that issue is not in this case.
MR. CRUZ: It is not in this case because
of Petitioner's concession, but Petitioner's
concession has serious consequences because the only
ground upon which Petitioner can prevail in this
Court is that the State court's application of
harmless error violated the United States
Constitution and by giving up his structural error
argument he gives up virtually any basis to lay out
why that would violate the U.S. Constitution, not
simply why it was incorrect but why it is
unconstitutional for the State court to apply that
doctrine.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's a question of
waiver, part of it. I mean, that's -- it's well
established that, I guess, I mean, if a State waives
an adequate State ground by considering the Federal
issue, the Federal courts will go into the Federal
ground and they can't later, can they -- is there any
case you found anywhere -- I haven't found one --
where say any Federal court considered a State case
where the State went into the Federal issue, the
State had said nothing about a State ground, and then
after the Federal court's decided it somehow the
State got a hold of it again and they this time said,
oh dear, we forgot, we forgot; in fact, there is the
State ground here. And is there any case that you
found like that which says that was permissible?
MR. CRUZ: Justice Breyer, I do not
disagree with you.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, there's no such
case and therefore this would be the first.
MR. CRUZ: But that's not what happened
here.
JUSTICE BREYER: Right.
MR. CRUZ: I do not disagree with you that
if the State court had concluded for Petitioner on a
State ground TO begin with and after being reversed
revisited that conclusion --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no. I'm saying
the State typically decides against the defendant.
They decide against the defendant on a Federal issue.
There's a perfectly adequate State issue. It's
called failure to object, and they don't mention it.
I'd be repeating myself. Are you following what my,
my -- and I'm saying is there any case you found
anywhere which says after that occurred that the
State when it gets a hold of the case again can say,
oh dear, we forgot, there's also this adequate State
ground, bad luck? I've never seen such a thing. I
doubt that you have.
MR. CRUZ: Justice Breyer, there is no
suggestion --
JUSTICE BREYER: And I say this would be
the first.
MR. CRUZ: That's not what happened here
and so we are not urging that ground to support what
the Court of Criminal Appeals did. But as the Chief
Justice suggested, the Almanza standard, the State
harmless error standard, is a two-step inquiry.
Inquiry number one, is there error; and under State
law if you conclude no the analysis ends. So the
first time the State court considered this it
concluded there is no constitutional error and so it
never addressed harmless error.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm making a mistake
here. I thought that the reason they bring in the
Almanza standard is, as I put it before, a kind of
act of charity. That is, since there was no
contemporaneous objection or proper one, you don't
get any appeal normally. But we'll let you do it if
you can show egregious harm. I'm wrong about that?
MR. CRUZ: That is not exactly how the
State court and State law does it. What the State
law does and our position in this case is that
Petitioner failed to preserve his objection because
he did not object specifically on the grounds --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but Mr. Cruz, is it
not true that if he did fail to preserve the
objection then there should have been a procedural
bar to the case going forward?
MR. CRUZ: There is not a procedural bar
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: Why is that?
MR. CRUZ: -- because the State Court of
Criminal Appeals has chosen to forgive failure to
preserve for purposes of procedural default and
subsequent habeas rights.
JUSTICE STEVENS: In other words, they are
saying that the failure to object does not
constitute -- would constitute a procedural bar if we
elected to treat it that way, but we've decided not
to, but we're nevertheless going to rely on the
failure to object to justify a higher standard of
review on harmless error?
MR. CRUZ: That's exactly correct, Justice
Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is there any precedent
for that ambivalent use of a potential procedural
bar?
MR. CRUZ: Let me suggest it's not an
ambivalent use, but rather what the Court of Criminal
Appeals has held, in the Black case it held that
Penry I was so novel that the State courts would
excuse a failure to preserve for purposes of
procedural bar. So in this regard the State court is
more forgiving to defendant than the Federal courts
are.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Cruz, none of
this went on in the opinion and there were four
judges of that court who said there's a procedural
bar here, end of case. The majority never explained
why they weren't going along with that. I didn't see
anything in the majority opinion that said, well,
never mind that there's a procedural bar here, we're
going to deal with the Federal question.
MR. CRUZ: Justice Ginsburg, you're right
that in Smith I, the Court of Criminal Appeals, the
majority did not explain why there wasn't a
procedural bar. But there had been a long line of
cases where the CCA had decided Penry errors were not
going to bar access to the courthouse, and just last
week in another decision that was decided after
briefing in the case, in the In Re Hood case, the
Court of Criminal Appeals made clear that in its
judgment Penry II was also so novel that for purposes
of successive risk it would excuse a failure to
preserve.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The simple
question is the procedural objection, as the four
judges suggested, could have precluded consideration
of the Federal claim at all.
MR. CRUZ: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the court said
we're going to go ahead and consider it, and then
when it turns out that they got it wrong and there
was error they had to apply harmless error review.
In Texas law, harmless error review turns on the
standard whether there was an objection or not, and
they went back and said there was no objection. The
contrary assertions assumes that when they let the
claim go forward, that they were waiving any reliance
on objection for any purposes, not consideration on
the merits, but also for any eventual later
consideration on harmless error pursuant to the
established State standard.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Cruz, would you
clarify one thing for me? Did the Texas Court of
Appeals say in effect, there is a procedural bar but
we're going to waive it, or did they just not address
the issue?
MR. CRUZ: In Black they said exactly what
you say.
JUSTICE STEVENS: How about in this case?
MR. CRUZ: In this case they didn't --
they didn't say because longstanding CCA
precedent made clear that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, you're assuming
there's longstanding precedents. It is also at least
conceivable that at the time they thought the
objection was properly preserved.
MR. CRUZ: It is conceivable, but I would
suggest the more reasonable inference is they
followed their long line of precedents that said
we're not going to interpose, as the Chief Justice
suggests, a total bar to raising these claims. So
for procedural default and for successive writs,
we're not going to penalize Petitioners for failing
to make objections. Just because the State court
decides to be more lenient than the Federal courts in
that respect does not mean that they also need to
apply the lesser standard of --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you're assuming that
they decided to be more lenient rather than assuming
that they may have actually decided and rejected the
procedural bar.
MR. CRUZ: Well --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's at least possible
on this record, is it not?
MR. CRUZ: They did not say one way or the
other the first time.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No. But isn't the
implausibility of the argument that you are making
something like this: You say the Texas rule is not
that failure to object is a procedural bar but that
failure to object determines the standard of harmless
error review if in fact there is a later appeal. The
implausibility, though, I guess of the position is
that as I understand it, four members of the Texas
Criminal Court of Appeals did not understand that to
be the case at all. Four of them said it is a
procedural bar. The four did not understand that
there was this rule that you invoke, and when the
four said there is a procedural bar, the majority of
the court never came out and said no, there isn't.
MR. CRUZ: The most reasonable explanation
for that, Justice Souter, I would suggest is at the
time of Smith III the Court had not decided Hood,
which means it had not concluded that Penry II was
also so novel that it would forgive failure to raise
it.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't the consequence of
that, though, that for purposes of this case there
was no clear State bar at the time in question and
therefore, they cannot apply it now? Maybe they can
apply it in cases down the road. I'll assume for the
sake of argument that they can. But not in your
case, because the bar was not established at the
relevant time in your case.
MR. CRUZ: That would arguably be the case
if on remand the Court of Criminal Appeals had
applied procedural default and refused to consider
the case -- the claim, but not what it did.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. But what it is
doing is in effect saying there was a kind of default
which is subsumed in what the four dissenting
justices said the first time around. And so we're
going to, we're going to sort of call it a half-loaf
procedural default, but we never said so the first
time around.
MR. CRUZ: Respectfully, they are
altogether separate concepts that procedural default
is a total bar to the courthouse.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I can understand that
they would be separate concepts if there were a rule
or if there had been a rule in place at the time he
was going through his State habeas that so said. But
we don't seem to have such a rule because as you
said, there was disagreement within the court, and
Hood had not been decided, and therefore --
MR. CRUZ: But Black had.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Pardon me?
MR. CRUZ: Black had and Almanza had.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Black being -- help me
out, Black?
MR. CRUZ: Black is what excused the
failure to raise Penry I for novelty. And so it was
clearly established State law at the time of this
trial --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that goes to Penry I,
and this is then an objection both to Penry I and
based on Penry II.
MR. CRUZ: But the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So it's --
MR. CRUZ: But the Hood -- the Hood
decision with respect to Penry II is being forgiving
to criminal defendant. It's not a bar. It's
forgiving a bar. That does not mean that the Almanza
standard which had been present for -- has been
present in State law for over 20 years is suddenly
inadequate.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You're right.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But did they cite that
case in this case, in this opinion in this case?
MR. CRUZ: They absolutely cited Almanza.
JUSTICE BREYER: Speaking of that case,
can you give me any citation? And just give me a
citation, and here there may not be one, but you give
me a citation where Texas previously said that a
defendant who raised an objection before trial to the
application of the statute to his client, he said
it's unconstitutional as applied to my client, give
me one example in Texas law where that was raised and
the State appeals court of any -- at any level said,
I'm very sorry, you can't really appeal that because
you should have said it again during the trial.
MR. CRUZ: Respectfully, Justice Breyer,
that is not what we are urging, and I'm very glad you
asked that question because I'd like to clarify what
we are urging in our brief. That is not why we think
Smith is not defaulted.
JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, there's
no case, there's no case in Texas law which says what
I just said?
MR. CRUZ: I don't know if there is or not
but our --
JUSTICE BREYER: You can't say.
MR. CRUZ: Our argument is not based on
the timing of the objection, so it has nothing to do
with when he did or didn't raise his objection. And
so --
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought it was because
he didn't raise it again in the trial.
MR. CRUZ: That is not --
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the argument?
MR. CRUZ: The argument is that he made a
different objection, a substantively different
objection, because what he filed was an argument that
the Texas death penalty was unconstitutional on its
face across the board and as applied to him, and he
made a conscious strategic choice which is, when the
judge presented a charge to the counsel and said do
you have any objections, do you have any suggestions,
is there any way I can change it, he could have done
what Penry's counsel did. Penry's counsel twice
asked the judge, please instruct the jury on
deliberateness so they can consider my mitigating
evidence for deliberateness. Penry I said that would
solve the Penry problem.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. But in this case
the counsel for the defendant did one other thing,
and it said to the judge, you don't have authority
under State law to add to these supplemental
instructions. And I was going to ask you, he was
right about that, wasn't he?
MR. CRUZ: Justice Kennedy, he was
categorically wrong about that, and that
fundamentally --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Really?
MR. CRUZ: Yes. For two reasons. Number
one, because Penry I, which has already been decided,
this Court has said the way to correct a Penry error
is to give an instruction. And the Court of Criminal
Appeals following Penry had already squarely held the
way to correct a Penry error is to give an
instruction.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What instruction? I
haven't seen one. I haven't seen --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was it the nullification
instruction?
MR. CRUZ: That's what the Court of
Criminal Appeals has said Penry I said, a
deliberateness instruction or a catch-all
instruction. So -- but in both cases, both this
Court and the State court have said judges can give
an instruction. And Penry I's counsel made --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is your instruction --
I think this is of some importance. My understanding
in this case is that the judge as well as counsel
thought that the judge couldn't say in essence what
became the Texas law because the legislature put it
in, which is: Jury, is it two special issues, but
you can consider all the mitigating evidence and it's
up to you if you think that mitigating evidence is
enough to have a life rather than a death sentence.
That I thought the judge couldn't do. I have not
seen a prelegislative change, charge in Texas that
says what the legislature provided.
MR. CRUZ: Justice Ginsburg, that is in
fact what the judge did here. What the judge could
do clearly under Texas law is give any reasonable
instruction to cure the error. What the judge
couldn't do is submit a third special issue. It
couldn't ask the jury, check, is there enough
mitigating evidence to sentence to death. So it
couldn't change the output from the jury. It
couldn't add a new special issue but it could give
any instruction possible to correct the error. That
was Texas law, that you could give instructions, but
the special issues are set by statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so the jury, what
they take into the jury room is something that says
these are the two questions that you must answer.
MR. CRUZ: But they also have a written
charge, so they get a written charge with the
instruction.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Which tells them that
the only way that they can give effect to mitigating
evidence is if they answer one of those questions
falsely.
MR. CRUZ: But this Court said in both
Penry I and Penry II that if the trial judge defined
deliberateness appropriately, even under the old
special issues, that it could solve the problem.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in this case the
judge said I'm going to give the nullification
instruction, and the attorney said, and I think quite
properly, he said that won't work.
MR. CRUZ: But what the attorney -- the
attorney didn't say that won't work because it puts
jurors in an ethical quandary, it causes them to
violate the oath. What the attorney said is, you can
give no instructions. And the reason for that
strategic choice is that Smith's counsel made the
judgment, I want it to be impossible for my client to
be subject to the death penalty.
Had Smith's counsel made the same
objection that Penry made, had he read Penry right in
front of him and asked, give me a deliberateness
instruction, it would have cured the error. But the
reason I would suggest that Smith's counsel didn't is
that the quantum of mitigating evidence in this case
was so slight compared to the pervious cases that he
made a very conscious strategic choice, I'd rather go
all or nothing. I would rather make an argument that
there is --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Cruz, how can
you make that assumption when the kind of mitigating
evidence that has been considered possible within
these special questions, the -- the -- in the Graham
case where the reputation of this young man, he was
sweet, gentle, kind, God fearing, and so the murder
that he committed was an aberration. And youth.
Those are the two things that I know that we have
recognized fall within that. The evidence in this
case is surely not that we are dealing with a sweet
and kind person. We are dealing with somebody who
has been abused as a child and who has a mental
disorder.
MR. CRUZ: Respectfully, Justice Ginsburg,
the evidence was precisely that he had been sweet and
kind. Over 90 percent of the evidence that defense
counsel relied on in closing was the 15 character
witnesses to show that he was a big lovable Teddy
bear and went to church, and was sweet and kind, and
he had overcome these obstacles, and this was a
momentary aberration. That was the central theme of
defense's arguments. And in fact when the court --
JUSTICE SOUTER: When you say 90 percent,
you're talking about argument time, aren't you?
MR. CRUZ: I'm talking --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Your answer to that is,
there were several hundred pages of records from
school and the testing that went on in school that
indicated there was something seriously wrong with
this guy.
MR. CRUZ: Well -- and it's interesting.
The several hundred pages they talk about, there are
three IQ tests that he had gotten. When he was 7
years old he tested at 87; when he was 10 years old
he tested at 87; when he was 13 he tested at 78.
They -- and they introduced all three. These were
the school records. There weren't competing experts.
It's interesting in closing arguments --
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right. Maybe -- but
the fact is that we're talking right now about sort
of quantum of evidence. Was there something serious
there for the jury to consider which in effect is the
basis for all of this argument? And it seems to me
it's not fairly characterized by saying, well, 90
percent of the mitigation case was that he was sweet
and loving there. Whether you find it -- whether you
find it persuasive or not, there was a substantial
amount of evidence of -- going to his mental capacity
and to his abuse.
MR. CRUZ: Justice Souter, not only was it
a very small part of the presentation, but in closing
argument defense counsel explicitly pointed out to
the jury that -- and let me read from defense
counsel's closing: "I think it speaks well for both
sides, the State and the defense to be quite honest,
that we didn't bring you some hired gun, some
psychiatrist that gets paid to get up here and say oh
well, these are all family problems." And that is at
33, volume 33 of the record, page 59.
He affirmatively -- in Penry the whole
argument was there's IQ problems, there's serious
abuse. There's no abuse in this case, Justice
Ginsburg, no allegation of abuse whatsoever. And he
affirmatively said to the jury, look, we're not
relying on some psychiatrist saying there are all
these family problems. Our story is that this is a
good person who led a good life and this is an
aberration.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Cruz. Mr. Schaerr.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GENE C. SCHAERR
ON BEHALF OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.,
AS AMICI CURIAE SUPPORTING RESPONDENT
MR. SCHAERR: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
I represent California and 20 other states
who are concerned about the implications of
Petitioner's arguments for their ability to apply
their own varied harmless error standards in their
own State habeas proceedings, and thereby to strike
what they believe to be the right balance between the
two competing concerns that this Court identified in
Calderon. One being the significant social costs of
retrial or resentencing, and the other the desire to
ensure that the extraordinary remedy of habeas corpus
is available to those whom society has grievously
wronged.
And with those concerns in mind, I'd like
to address three specific points. The first is the
whole question of whether States have the ability
under our Federal Constitution to choose their own
harmless error standards even when they are
addressing Federal error. Petitioner appears to
concede as a general matter that States do have that
authority, but let me just briefly indicate why that
concession is well founded.
First of all, as this Court has held in
Pennsylvania versus Finley --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Are you talking about
both collateral review and direct review, or just
collateral review?
MR. SCHAERR: I'm just talking about
collateral review right now.
As this Court has held in Pennsylvania
versus Finley, the States are under no obligation to
provide collateral review at all, and so it would be
extraordinary if they take the step of deciding that
they will provide such review, for this Court to say,
well, if you're going to do that you have to apply a
Federal standard on State habeas review rather than
the standard that you choose.
Secondly, to the extent the States decide
to provide habeas review or any other kind of
post-conviction review, the authority by which they
do that derives from State law, not from the Federal
Constitution or any other Federal law, and this Court
obviously does not have general supervisory authority
over, over State courts as it does Federal courts.
And third, unlike the situation with
direct review, this Court could not as a practical
matter impose a Federal standard on State habeas
proceedings without being highly intrusive. I mean
--
JUSTICE BREYER: In, in this case suppose
the following circumstance. Suppose a Federal court
has decided in the case of this defendant --
MR. SCHAERR: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- there was an error of
Federal constitutional law, search and seizure or
confessions or something, and now we send it back.
And let's suppose further the State has no
independent State ground, they are not trying to make
the argument, whether or not they're trying to make
it here. There's no independent State ground, no
objection to problem, nothing. Now, I read that one
standard that could be applied is the structural
error standard. A second is a harmless error
standard. But I've never seen a case, but that's
perhaps my ignorance -- -that's whey want you to show
me -- where it's definitively established by a
Federal court anyway that there was a serious Federal
error, I've never seen a case where this Court said,
or I can't recall one, that the State applied yet
some third kind of standard, such as, well, I know
there was a very important error, I know it was
Federal and constitutional, but nonetheless we're not
going to give them any remedy unless it's absolutely
egregious harm. I've never seen that in the law.
Now, can you point to me in the law where,
which will correct my lacuna?
MR. SCHAERR: I'm not aware that the Court
has expressly addressed that precise question, which
I think is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Have you ever seen it in
a State? Have you ever seen a State which gets a
case back from --
MR. SCHAERR: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Where? Where should I
look on that?
MR. SCHAERR: Well, our amicus brief, Your
Honor, cites, cites dozens of cases in which, in
which States have addressed Federal --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I'm not talking
about that because obviously they can do what they
want, I think, in the State courts, but they might
violate Federal law if they do it. And now so what's
happened is somebody has gone into Federal court or
this Court and Federal court or this Court has said:
Here's a Federal error, of course you're free to
apply harmless error or whatever, you don't have to
let the person have a new trial or let him out.
But I've never seen an instance I can
think of where, that having happened, the State then
applied yet some third standard like absolutely
egregious horrible harm or not totally wonderful harm
or something like that. I've never seen. That's
what I'm looking for. Is there such an instance?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or plain error, as
applied in the Federal cases under Alano.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, that's possible.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there some reason,
Mr. Schaerr, why that would be more egregious when
the Federal constitutional question has been answered
by a Federal district court than it is when the
Federal constitutional question has been answered by
the State supreme court? Wouldn't it be just as bad
when the State supreme court has said the Federal
Constitution has been violated and then the case goes
back to the lower State court and the lower State
court applies some standard for plain error which is,
which is simply different from what is, what is being
urged here today. I'm sure that happens all the
time.
MR. SCHAERR: I'm sure it does.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I don't know why it's
any worse, any worse when you do it to a Federal
district court's determination of what the Federal
Constitution says than when you do it to the State
supreme court's determination of what the Federal
Constitution says.
MR. SCHAERR: That's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: I guess the reason would
be that there is a problem with enforcing Federal
constitutional standards. I have not heard of a
State that says, suppose the jury was chosen in a
racially discriminatory way, suppose there are all
kinds of things, the State says, well, we admit, we
admit that there is this violation, but we're just
not going to apply a harmless error standard. We're
going to apply a tough one. I guess that would be
the reason. That's why I don't think I've ever seen
it.
MR. SCHAERR: Right, and the question is
whether the State is free in that circumstance to
apply a State harmless error standard or if it has to
be required to apply a Federal harmless error
standard. And our -- and the fact is that on the
ground the States are routinely applying State
harmless error standards in those situations. And so
it would be a sea change if this Court were to now
hold that, no, when a State court is reviewing the
effect of a Federal error that the State court has to
apply a Federal standard rather than the State.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is there any special
Federal harmless error standard that applies to
unpreserved error?
MR. SCHAERR: I think it's the Alano
standard, at least in the Federal --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that's for Federal,
that's in the Federal courts. But there isn't one
that's applicable able to the State courts, is there?
MR. SCHAERR: No, no. There isn't.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we haven't had the
issue before us, have we? That's why you're here.
MR. SCHAERR: That's why I'm here, that's
right.
JUSTICE STEVENS: This question is a
little different. If you had two harmless errors in
a given State, do they have to apply them
consistently?
MR. SCHAERR: Well, then the question
would be is there some Federal law reason why they
have to. I mean, they may under State law have to
apply them --
JUSTICE STEVENS: In other words, if for
example the higher standard only applies to
unpreserved error and the record clearly establishes
and the several State judges confirm there was no
unpreserved error, then would there not be a duty to
apply the lower standard?
MR. SCHAERR: There may be under State
law, it's not clear why that would raise a Federal
issue.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And if the State follows
the rule in just one exceptional case before the
Federal court, can the court said, hey, you're not
following your regular rule?
MR. SCHAERR: Well, there may be a due
process objection to that, but here the only
objection --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there no Federal
interest in ensuring that there is a full and fair
implementation of a Federal right? And if the State
higher standard is erroneously applied, doesn't that
prejudice the Federal right?
MR. SCHAERR: Well, that may be one reason
why we have Federal habeas proceedings.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that reason would
apply equally, however, to determinations of Federal
rights by State courts.
MR. SCHAERR: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I think everybody
understands that State courts do this all the time,
and indeed a good way to do an end run around what,
what, what the other side in this case seems to want
is simply for the State supreme court to find a
violation of Federal law so that it doesn't get to a
Federal court and then have the State lower court
apply whatever harmless error standard it wishes,
which would be a crazy system.
MR. SCHAERR: That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So if you're going to
adopt this rule, this rule would have to be adopted
not only for references back to the State court from
a Federal decision, but you would surely have to
apply it to all State determinations of Federal law,
and I don't really know what authority we would have
to require lower State courts to do that.
MR. SCHAERR: Well, that's, that's exactly
right and especially in the habeas context it would
be, it would be extremely intrusive and invasive for
this Court to attempt to do that. It's one thing on
direct review of a State criminal conviction to say
as a matter of Federal constitutional law we think
there was an error here and we're going to nullify
the conviction, which is what the Constitution gives
this Court the power to do. But it's quite another,
after the conviction is final and the defendant is
already incarcerated, then on a State habeas
proceeding for the issue to come, to come back to
this Court, it would be extraordinary for this Court
to say, well, you have to apply Federal standards or
Federally dictated procedures in that circumstance.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
counsel.
Mr. Steiker, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JORDAN STEIKER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. STEIKER: I'd like to return to the
record in this case because I think once it's
clarified what the nature of the evidence was in this
case it's clear that this Court could find that the
error was harmful under any standard, including the
egregious harm standard. We have in this case over
200 pages of exhibits documenting a lifelong
disability. This evidence was first introduced in
the guilt-innocence phase of the trial. It was
argued at the guilt-innocence closing argument, in
which trial counsel said, this is a 19-year-old ninth
grader who has been charged with this crime, and
argued that that was the basis for considering him
less culpable than his college-educated co-defendant.
During the punishment phase, it's clear
that the single most important witness, the one whose
testimony was the most central, the most
time-consuming, was Alberta Pingle, who brought in
all of the school records showing from at the time
the Petitioner was in school he had been diagnosed as
a learning disabled, possibly organic in nature, 78
IQ. And his counsel emphasized this as the central
basis for withholding a death sentence. He said,
this man has a 78 IQ, 8 points from being mentally
retarded, lifelong learning disabilities, possibly
organic in nature.
And the argument that there was no
evidence of abuse in this case is belied by the fact
that the evidence showed that Petitioner's father
chased him with a butcher knife in order to steel the
family's car in order to support his crack habit. If
that's not evidence of abuse and evidence that could
show reduced culpability for this defendant, coupled
especially with his impairment which made him less
capable of responding to that role model and avoiding
dangerous behavior --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about
General, Mr. Cruz's comments that this was a minor
point in counsel's summation before the jury?
MR. STEIKER: It is true that this
evidence was presented as only one page of his
closing argument, but that was because of the problem
in this case. As this Court noted in its summary
reversal, the prosecutor got up right before defense
counsel and said: You promised us on voir dire you
would answer the special issues honestly and that if
the evidence supported a yes answer to deliberateness
and dangerousness you would give us yes answers.
Basically, right before he spoke the prosecutor gave
an anti-nullification instruction which said this
evidence isn't relevant to the special issues of
deliberateness and dangerousness.
In that posture, he was left to argue that
the evidence showed he wasn't dangerous, that the
evidence showed he didn't act deliberately, and just
hope that the jury would be willing to lie on the
special verdict form.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is this argument
an assertion that the Texas State court was wrong in
its determination of this question of Texas State
law?
MR. STEIKER: His argument --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, your argument
right now.
MR. STEIKER: I'm sorry. I don't
understand.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is your argument
an argument that the Texas State court was wrong on
its ruling under Texas State law harmless error.
MR. STEIKER: No. Our argument is that
when you take out the clearly impermissible Federal
conclusion that the jury could give effect to this
evidence, which was exactly what this Court said to
the contrary in its summary reversal -- this Court
said this evidence couldn't be considered. The State
court said he has extensive evidence, he has powerful
evidence, powerfully presented, dramatically
presented, but we think, unlike the Supreme Court,
that a carefully crafted nullification instruction
will facilitate the jurors' consideration of it.
So if you take away the impermissible
Federal conclusion, this Court could clearly
conceive, conclude, on the basis of the State court's
own characterization of this evidence, which departs
tremendously from the Respondent's view, that this
was powerful mitigating evidence. The Court of
Criminal Appeals' error was to conclude that this
could be taken into account after this Court said
exactly the opposite.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
counsel. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:09 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
15:19 43:4 45:7 53:4,20,25 attempt 55:23
45:2 17:22 answered 51:14 55:17 56:8 43:14,15,17
admit 52:13,14 51:16 applying 52:24 Austin 1:15,17
60:9 advice 25:24 anticipated 6:16 appropriate availability 7:9
38:25 46:16,20 anyway 49:22 43:8 aware 18:3 50:7
51:5 afraid 22:6 appeal 11:15 arguably 37:5 a.m 1:13 3:2
appeals 12:19 argued 56:25 B
57:18
agreed 14:22 13:21 22:7 57:3 back 7:10 22:17
5:3,5 Alberta 57:8 60:2 12:4 15:5 3:20
ALITO 14:1,12 APPEARAN... 16:11 17:2,21 bad 22:11,12
allegation 46:19 appears 47:24 29:4 36:3 37:2 balance 47:12
18:21 application 8:1 44:5 45:5,24 26:13 27:3
38:25 13:3 19:4,5,7 arguments 10:4 36:12,14,24
alternative 23:4 39:7 40:10 47:9 38:18
ambivalent 51:10 54:20 40:16 43:24 based 38:12
amici 1:20 2:10 20:6 51:21 assertion 58:24 bases 10:1,1
20:12 amicus 50:16 apply 18:2 19:10 assume 17:1 58:14
27:8 amount 46:4 19:12 26:22,22 37:1 basis 7:2,21 8:7
6:2 14:4 7:4,16,17,20 29:7 34:7 assuming 15:6 15:8 17:11
16:18 8:1,5,18 9:12 35:17 36:25 19:9,11 26:18 26:13,17 27:3
29:12 19:9 20:2 31:7 37:1 47:9 35:3,18,19 28:13 29:4
57:3,13 burdensome 58:8 60:7,8 12:23 18:9,13 client 39:6,7
18:6,10,11,15 cases 8:8 17:3 20:16 21:3 43:20
3:8 bypassed 26:1 25:13 33:16 31:3 33:24 56:25 58:7
27:18 37:1 41:19 34:4 35:10 collateral 19:17
56:15 C 44:3 50:17 46:25 47:5 26:25 48:6,7,9
2:10 47:3,7 category 22:11 choice 40:11 56:6
20:11 call 37:13 causes 43:16 43:19 44:4 comments 58:3
47:12 called 30:14 CCA 3:16 5:4 choose 47:22 committed
38:1,3,4 carefully 22:20 central 45:2 circumstance component
59:19 57:7,12 49:6 52:20 28:20
16:15,16,16 change 20:12 26:23 conceding 4:25
23:7 21:9,17 22:22 changing 20:22 cited 38:25 35:5,7
29:9,24 23:3,5,9,11,19 20:23 cites 50:17,17 conceive 59:23
24:5 25:1,2,17 Chapman 9:5,8 claim 8:8 14:24 concepts 37:17
31:11 27:21 28:21,22 9:15 15:5 14:25 16:2,3 37:20
29:15,16,22 16:25 19:13,16 34:2,12 37:8 concerned 47:8
49:5,9 30:2,16,18 19:21 20:1 claims 19:20,25 concerns 18:4
31:20 32:1,23 26:20,20,22,24 35:11 25:16 47:13,19
52:8 33:7,19,19 character 44:23 clarified 56:18 concession
39:15 36:23 37:3,4,5 59:24 39:14 conclude 15:1
37:8 38:24,24 characterized clear 15:16 31:7 59:23
46:1,18 49:5,7 charged 57:2 clearly 4:19 8:7 conclusion 7:23
22:11 51:19 54:11 chased 57:20 17:7 19:20 59:12,22
5:23 27:20 28:3,14 33:20 36:10 22:23 23:15
59:14 32:22 33:1,6 60:2 decided 21:6
13:5 34:18 35:14 27:16,17,19 32:12 33:16,18
26:24 55:24 37:6,24 39:9 30:3,6,22 31:1 37:25 41:6
37:7 core 10:8 41:20 43:6 32:5,16,21 decides 21:17
42:3 corpus 47:16 45:3 47:6,13 33:4,12 34:3 30:11 35:15
correct 8:2 48:3,10,14,22 34:17,22,25 deciding 48:13
7:24 18:24 20:3 50:7,23,24,24 36:16 37:5,16 17:11 22:19
18:21 23:19 32:16 50:24 51:15,17 38:1,3,6,13,15 25:3,20,23
26:9 34:1 34:3 41:7,10 51:18,20,21 38:25 39:12,20 33:18 38:16
59:20 42:18 50:6 53:1,2,3 54:12 39:23 40:4,6 55:16
25:15 costs 47:14 55:15,23 56:3 42:24 43:6,14 deemed 16:24
31:8 counsel 10:25 56:7,7,19 58:8 44:7,20 45:6 default 18:2
59:15 15:10 27:15 58:24 59:8,13 45:12 46:6 20:8 25:25
57:3 41:21,24 43:19 60:1,3 Cruz's 58:3 35:12 37:7,10
46:8 56:12 33:17 37:18 57:23 defaulted 39:16
60:7 23:1 27:25 cure 42:12 23:16 30:11,12
29:3,5 58:4 33:2 35:15 curiae 1:20 2:10 39:5 40:21
48:22 coupled 57:23 48:24,24 50:21 47:4 49:7 56:4
52:4,6 course 6:19 53:11,12 55:1 57:23
50:25 55:4,19 D defendants
8:6 25:21 3:10,12,25 11:4 18:22 dangerous 58:1 defense 14:10
31:9 4:24 5:11,25 22:14 28:2 58:19 44:22 46:8,9
50:2 6:15 7:12,15 29:1,19 52:3,5 dangerousness 46:11 58:9
52:10 7:19,19 10:18 59:23 58:13,17 defense's 45:3
10:25 12:15,18 co-defendant de 8:12 defer 7:16
14:2,15 15:1 crack 57:21 dealing 44:16,17 definitively
20:20,25 21:2 crazy 55:11 30:19 deliberately
22:7 23:13,16 criminal 12:19 42:15 43:21 deliberateness
25:18,23,23 28:15 31:3 decades 27:25 43:8,24 58:12
discriminatory emphasized 2:3,6,9,13 experts 45:18
52:3,5 documenting error 3:16 4:3 eventual 34:14 48:18
56:22 4:10 5:1 6:22 everybody extraordinary
55:17 doubt 9:3,8,16 7:15,17,20,22 evidence 3:13,18 56:7
dozens 50:17 8:22 9:15,16 7:24 8:20 10:7
22:14 59:17 15:6 16:22,24 18:22 23:5 face 40:10
dually 20:6 20:17,19,20 44:2,9,15,21 fact 4:7 5:6
D.C 1:8,19 25:8,9,10 57:18,19,22,22 36:7 42:10
24:8,12 E 27:3 28:5,13 58:20 59:13,15 57:18
16:9 earlier 15:5 28:20 29:2,3 60:1 fail 31:24
40:7,7 17:21 31:5,6,9,10 exact 5:9 failed 31:21
53:19 easier 22:15 32:15 34:7,7,8 exactly 6:14 failing 13:23
58:10 economy 25:17 41:7,10 42:12 32:16 34:22 35:13
20:2,6 10:11,13 17:14 47:10,23,24 60:4 23:12 30:14
49:1 17:24 20:12 49:9,18,18,23 example 39:8 32:6,10,14,25
34:19 37:10 50:1,25 51:1,9 54:2 33:22 36:5,6
53:3 59:12 52:22,25 53:3 54:11 fair 54:18
51:6,13 56:21 errors 28:4 excused 38:6 falsely 43:5
37:24 elected 32:12 especially 22:2 exhibits 56:22 family 46:14,22
embrace 21:1 ESQ 1:15,17,19 22:8 father 57:19
9:5 37:12,14 47:20 futile 18:15 35:13 37:13,13 happen 22:13
14:6,23 48:3 56:23 fuzzy 5:16 6:6 37:22 40:24 happened 30:3
15:7,9 flag 23:3 43:11 46:4 31:1 50:23
flawed 14:10 G 48:15 50:3 51:4
Flowers 17:17 G 3:1 52:15,16 55:13 happens 51:23
17:6,10 17:18,25 GENE 1:19 2:9 56:1 harm 9:11,12,14
19:16 focus 22:20 47:2 good 7:14,19 9:17 10:2
21:12,13 follow 5:7 12:5 general 1:17 23:5 46:23,23 12:24 31:17
23:10,13 followed 35:9 11:13 33:4 55:5 50:4 51:6,6
following 6:23 44:7 47:25 gotten 45:14 56:21
25:1,21 12:15 30:15 48:23 58:3 govern 27:21 harmful 28:20
41:9 49:6 generalized grader 57:2 56:20
28:3 54:13 10:10 Graham 27:22 harmless 3:16
follows 54:10 Generally 8:24 44:10 4:3,10 6:22 7:4
30:12 footnote 19:24 generous 11:24 greater 9:11 7:9,15,17,20
34:2 28:12 gentle 44:12 grievously 47:17 7:22 8:1,4,13
47:22,24 forfeit 24:19 Ginsburg 13:10 ground 23:11,12 8:13,18,22 9:2
forfeited 11:15 25:22 33:4,12 23:13,15,15,18 9:7,15,22 15:6
forgive 32:6 41:12,22 42:9 23:20,22,25 16:22,24 19:4
50:2,18 36:20 42:21 43:2 24:1 25:3,11 19:9 20:17
forgiving 33:2 44:7,20 46:19 25:20 28:25 21:6 22:16,18
38:16,18 give 3:17 5:8 29:12,14,18,22 22:24 25:10
52:2,3,5 forgot 29:21,21 10:12,19 13:12 30:8,20 31:2 26:14,18 28:4
53:3,4 30:19 13:15 39:2,2,3 49:13,15 52:24 28:17,19 29:2
form 10:6,22,24 39:7 41:8,10 grounds 17:12 31:5,10 32:15
54:8,12 11:1 12:9 41:20 42:11,17 23:4 31:22 34:7,8,15 36:6
13:21 14:8,23 42:19 43:3,11 guess 29:11 36:8 47:10,23 49:18
55:8,9 18:4,20 58:22 43:18,24 50:3 52:8,16 51:1 52:15,21
formality 17:16 58:13 59:12 guilt-innocence 52:22,25 53:6
59:11,22 forward 32:1 given 3:13,23 56:24,25 53:19 55:10
55:7 33:5,25 36:9 go 22:23 26:10 21:9,11,12,13 help 38:4
36:11,12,14 29:13 34:5,12 21:22,24 25:1 hesitation 6:12
10:2 free 50:25 52:20 God 44:12 28:6 32:8 high 18:6,15
front 43:24 goes 23:16 25:1 37:22 47:11,16 higher 32:14
10:4 fundamentally 13:22 22:13,17 56:5 hired 46:12
imposing 18:5 instructions 42:20 43:9 13:10 14:1,12
43:20 9:21 11:6,7 I's 41:21 15:24 16:8,10
14:5,19 inadequate 25:24 45:12,19 Johnson 27:22 21:3,16 22:2,8
16:20 12:20 13:2,6,7 interpose 35:10 JORDAN 1:15 22:10 23:1,7
24:12 14:20 15:2 interpret 11:2 2:3,13 3:7 24:4,6,7,8,15
60:5 16:5 20:11 interrupt 6:19 56:14 24:23 25:4,22
37:25 incarcerated intertwined 13:10,10,16 27:19 28:8,16
56:5 16:4 40:12,16,22 29:9,24 30:1,5
25:14 intractable 11:6 judges 20:24 33:4,12,24
36:19 indicated 45:10 invocation 17:8 22:1 25:17 40:2,5,20 41:1
43:7 inference 35:8 invoke 12:19 Jurek 27:22 41:4,12,14,22
inquiry 7:14 involving 16:16 juror 5:17 6:14 45:4,7,20 46:6
21:14,25 instance 51:3,8 46:17 57:12,14 43:16 59:20 48:5 49:5,9
24:25 instruct 40:16 issue 7:8 9:9 jury 3:17,23 4:7 50:10,14,19
instructed 4:23 14:12,16,18 4:9,20,23 5:2,5 51:9,11,12
5:7,14,16,17 17:6,23 23:11 8:11 10:13 53:14,18 54:1
8:11 10:11,20 27:3 28:9,10 42:2,14,16,21 55:3,13 56:11
14:10,21 18:11 29:17 30:12,13 46:9,20 52:11 60:6
41:8,11,12,15 53:15 54:9 Justice 3:3,9,21 37:12
42:12,18 43:1 issued 5:10 5:12 6:1,18 7:1
59:19 5:8 6:13 10:6 8:21 9:1,18 Kennedy 7:13
41:1,4 legal 12:24 mean 4:11 6:2 N 14:21,22 18:11
43:10 legislature 9:1,19 15:18 N 2:1,1 3:1 24:18 30:14
10:23 13:14 29:10,11 35:16 name 17:14 31:22 32:10,14
44:8,12 lenient 35:15,19 53:24 nature 13:23 objected 10:5,18
lesser 35:17 means 4:23 14:25 16:2 objection 11:13
49:25 let's 49:12 36:19 56:18 57:11,16 11:13,22 12:8
44:14 lifelong 56:22 mentally 57:14 25:9 16:18 18:25
50:1 57:15 mention 14:9 need 15:22 20:10,13 21:19
55:18 limitations 8:25 30:14 35:16 21:19 22:5
merits 4:12 31:10 33:7,10 24:16 25:19
37:14
10:23 35:1,4 misapplied 14:2 normal 21:4 objections 35:14
look 6:10 23:9 misspoke 13:5 normally 31:16 40:13
14:2,4 46:20 50:15 mistake 31:11 noted 58:8 objects 18:20
looking 51:8 misunderstan... notion 5:23 obligation 48:11
lot 22:9 23:8 8:5 14:24 16:3 novel 32:24 obstacles 45:1
18:18 lovable 44:24 16:5 33:21 36:20 obtained 24:14
20:1,1 loving 46:2 misunderstood novelty 38:7 obviously 48:23
26:3,21 lower 51:20,20 14:6 novo 8:12 50:20
31:7,19 54:6 55:9,19 mitigating 3:13 nullification occurred 30:17
34:8 luck 23:24 30:20 3:18,24 4:16 3:15 4:19 5:7 offer 11:1
39:8 5:9 7:24 8:20 5:18,20,24 oh 6:6 12:14
40:23 M 10:7,12 14:9 22:3,15 29:21
10:13
maintain 26:15 18:21 40:17 11:1,6,7 13:25 30:19 46:13
49:10 majority 22:25 42:3,4,15 43:3 14:9,21 18:24 okay 5:14 30:1
33:7,9,14 44:2,8 60:1 41:14 43:11 37:9
54:8 36:14 mitigation 13:13 59:19 Oklahoma 17:8
making 16:10 46:1 nullify 6:8 56:1old 43:8 45:15
31:11 36:3 model 57:25 number 21:10 45:15
47:25 49:2 motions 12:10 oath 43:17 4:15,15,18
38:24 people 11:25 posited 5:5 presented 40:12 process 54:15
23:18 44:22 20:5,5,22,24 18:7 31:15
27:17 47:2 permissible possibility 4:1,2 33:23 proposition 5:10
person 44:17 28:19 35:23 19:21,22 20:3 24:17,18 58:9
pervious 44:3 possibly 57:11 19:14,16 48:14,19
1:16 2:4,14 3:8 post 20:6 15:20 psychiatrist
47:24 56:15 9:10 48:20 previously 39:4 purported 7:4
potential 32:19 problem 4:21 purpose 5:13,15
58:6 3:17 4:16 8:20 powerful 59:16 58:7 36:23
57:19 powerfully 46:17,22 put 31:13 42:1
plainly 10:5 precise 50:8 24:25 25:6,25 15:25 16:1,23
please 3:10 44:21 31:25 32:2,7 20:17 26:11
27:23 47:6 precluded 34:1 33:6,10,15,25 36:24 39:14
point 6:20 10:11 predicated 8:5 34:19 35:12,21 47:21 50:8
33:16,21 10:14 11:10 prejudice 54:21 36:5,12,14 51:14,16 52:19
38:7,10 12:6 14:16 prelegislative 37:7,14,17 53:18,22 58:25
15:8 17:3 42:7 procedures 56:9 questions 42:23
41:6 18:16,17 24:14 preliminary proceed 21:10 43:4 44:10
50:5 58:4 6:20 7:14 proceeding 56:6 quite 7:7 43:12
43:7,7 pointed 46:8 present 9:9 proceedings 46:11 56:3
46:16 pointing 12:2 38:19,20 7:10 25:13
57:14 46:7 54:23 R 1:17 2:6 3:1
reintroduced 37:16 39:12 rights 10:3 Scalia 3:21 4:4,6
26:8,8 25:2 44:20 11:15 32:8 4:15,22 5:12
38:7 rejected 5:25 Respondent 55:1 6:1 9:18 10:9
40:3 35:20 1:18,21 2:7,11 rigorous 9:22 10:16 15:17,24
rejection 7:5,22 27:18 47:4 risk 26:4,7 16:8,14 21:16
14:7 20:5 59:25 road 37:1 24:23 51:12
relevant 37:4 57:25 12:23 18:9,13 54:24 55:3,13
reliance 34:12 16:9 22:10 23:1 47:1,2,5 48:8
49:16 relief 7:3 restraint 21:4 46:25 51:9 52:7,19 53:8
55:18 32:13 retrial 47:15 59:3,7 60:6 54:7,14,22
43:18 remainder reversal 3:12 room 42:22 school 45:9,9,18
51:12 27:12 11:5 28:13 routinely 52:24 57:9,10
53:23 remaining 56:13 58:9 59:14 rule 15:20,21 sea 53:1
remains 10:8 reverse 14:3 17:9,25 20:14 search 49:10
35:8 7:12 25:13 20:14 30:8 36:4,13 37:20 28:2 49:18
42:11 37:6 review 9:4,6,6 37:21,23 54:11 Secondly 48:18
56:14 repeating 30:15 25:21 26:14,18 run 55:5 seen 30:20 41:13
44:15 reputation 34:7,8 36:7 S 2:1 3:1 50:10,11 51:3
require 5:16 6:4 48:14,16,19,20 13:22 seizure 49:10
46:15 required 4:7 9:8 reviewing 53:2 satisfied 5:19 sense 13:8 17:20
56:17 10:12,13,23 revisited 30:9 saying 4:8,25 sentence 42:5,15
requirement 16:13 17:1,18 9:20 12:19 separate 13:12
49:20 37:19 38:2,4 8:23,25 9:10 39:6 42:20 substantively
38:10,14,22 9:10,13 13:20 steel 57:20 40:7
speaking 8:24 20:8,9,11 21:9 2:13 3:6,7,9 successive 33:22
10:22,24 11:3 24:25 25:7,18 10:21 11:20 32:21 35:8
18:20 21:22 26:22 27:10,10 13:18 14:5,18 suggested 13:23
51:22 44:10 53:5 29:16,17,18,18 17:7,17 18:1 suggestion
58:11,16,22 29:20,22 30:7 18:12,17 19:8 30:23
33:13 squarely 41:9 46:11 47:11 Stevens 19:2,15 59:14
39:16 standard 9:6,8 48:16,21,24 24:6,8 26:11 summation 58:4
44:1 12:24,25 13:3 49:24 50:11,11 32:17,18 34:17 48:23
32:14 34:9,16 53:24 54:4,7 strategic 40:11 supported 58:12
38:19 48:16,17 55:4,7,9,15,17 strike 47:11 2:11 47:4
59:5 49:25 51:5,21 58:24,25 59:8 28:17 29:3 49:5,6,12
53:4,6,9 54:2,6 statement 26:21 structure 19:25 supposed 12:17
15:3,13,15 standards 47:10 29:2 47:7,21 43:21 25:23 26:2
17:1 47:23 52:10,25 47:25 48:11,18 submit 42:13 51:17,18 52:5
18:2 56:8 50:18 52:24 submitted 60:7 55:7 59:18
26:6 standard's 27:7 State's 14:10 60:9 sure 11:9 51:23
42:1,7,11,19 23:23 26:1 10:23 versus 3:4 48:4
59:9 31:8 35:5 36:1 29:7 39:7 40:9 view 4:9 5:2
46:1 56:10,11 60:5 38:8 45:5 understand 7:8 violate 17:25
5:2,5 12:5 34:18 40:21 today 51:23 11:10 13:17,18 violation 52:14
16:22 55:23 told 13:11 26:2 15:13 41:23 55:8
26:20 things 13:15 total 35:11 understands violative 10:3
28:8 44:14 52:13 37:18 55:4 virtually 29:4
48:13 think 4:4,13,14 totally 51:6 understood 4:20 voir 5:6 6:10
4:24 5:1,22 6:5 tough 52:16 5:18 10:21 12:13 58:10
48:5 17:14 18:2 trial 10:21,25 29:2 W
50:19 20:4,14,23 11:12 12:11,11 unpreserved waive 24:16
24:2,11,12,21 25:18 27:9 unreasonable 23:21
53:8 55:3,25 31:24 58:5 39:13,15 want 4:12 14:3
4:24 7:10 5:20 6:6 13:1,1 twice 40:15 U.S 29:5 wasn't 4:7 13:7
11:10,11 13:11 14:13 two 13:15 27:21 33:14 40:25
20:1 22:19 27:25 41:5 V 58:19
23:9,18 25:8 42:2,23 44:14 v 1:5 way 8:19 21:11
14:2,2 25:12 31:12 47:13 53:19 varied 47:10 21:24 22:15,21
15:1 35:5 40:2 two-step 31:5 vast 21:9 22:25 22:22 27:4
18:18 41:25 42:6 typically 23:12 vehicle 5:25 6:2 32:12 35:25
20:1 three 10:1 45:14 30:11 verdict 10:6,22 40:14 41:7,10
34:8,18 45:17 47:20 10:24 12:8 43:3 52:12
39:4,8 time 3:11 9:21 U 13:21 14:8,23 55:5
40:9 12:21 13:8 unalterable 18:4,20 58:22 Wednesday 1:9
44:25 59:8 8
wronged 47:18 8 57:14
X
26:1 Y 99 21:23
33:10 years 38:20
35:10 45:15,15
37:12,13 young 44:11
46:20 youth 44:13
52:14,15 0
1:5 3:4
10 45:15
19-year-old 57:1
23 19:23
54:1 3
17:19,19 4
21:3 4 56:13
26:25 47 2:11
7
19:5
45:14
31:17
3:19 45:16
