IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES :
(USA) LLC, FKA CREDIT :
SUISSE FIRST BOSTON LLC, :
ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 05-1157
GLEN BILLING, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 27, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:15 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioners.
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for the
United States as amicus curiae, supporting the
Petitioners.
CHRISTOPHER LOVELL, ESQ., New York; on behalf of the
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ.,
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.,
For the United States as amicus curiae,
Supporting the Petitioners. 17
CHRISTOPHER LOVELL, ESQ.,
On behalf of the Respondents 27
STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
[10:15 a.m.]
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in case 05-1157, Credit Suisse Securities
versus Billing, et al.
Mr. Shapiro.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO,
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS
MR. SHAPIRO: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The pivotal question in this case is whether
this Court's decisions in Gordon and NASD require
implied antitrust immunity as the district court
believed. And we submit that the answer is yes. The
'33 and '34 acts were of course passed for the very
purpose of regulating IPOs and alleged market
manipulation. And this Court has referred to these laws
as the anchor of Federal economic policy in the
securities field. And under these laws the SEC has laid
down detailed regulations applicable to the very
practices that are at issue in this case with active
supervision by the SEC and the NASD.
And it has done this with full understanding
that syndicated underwriting is inherently concerted
action. An underwriting requires joint action in
accumulating information and setting the price of the
offering along with allotting shares to customers.
Now the Gordon and NASD cases apply directly
here because of the danger of inconsistency and conflict
which the SEC cited. As in cases of this Court in the
past, like NASD and Gordon and later Trinko, Congress
required this expert administrative agency to take
competition into account when issuing its standards.
And review in antitrust courts across the country would
once again raise the danger of false positives and
conflicts and wasteful redundancy.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did it, did it specifically
state that, or is it that or just the principle that all
Federal agencies have an obligation to --
MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, no, Your Honor, it is very
express in 75 and then again in the 96. Capital
formation, investor protection and competition have to
be weighed against each other by the SEC, and in Gordon
this Court attached great importance to that standard,
which differs from the competition first standard of,
the antitrust laws impose.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Shapiro, to what
extent has the SEC regulated the specific
vertical restraints that are alleged here?
MR. SHAPIRO: The SEC regulates the -- the
alleged tie-ins and it regulates the alleged excessive
compensation claims.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And laddering, for
example?
MR. SHAPIRO: Laddering, tying, and
excessive compensation. And it's had a number of
enforcement actions. Its regulation M is focused
exactly on those practices. It's issued very detailed
guidance in a document that we attach to our petition
appendix on what constitutes --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And are we to assume that
if the allegations are true, which they of course may
not be, that this is a violation of the -- of the
securities laws?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well the SEC has said it
depends on the circumstances. And they draw very fine
lines in this area, Your Honor.
And if, in fact, the SEC concludes it is a
tie-in under its finely calibrated standards, then yes.
But that's the critical issue here. It is very easy to
term these things excessive compensation or tie-ins, but
when the NASD looked at a real complaint of this sort in
the Invemed case it found that there was no excessive
compensation and no commercial bribery. And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about in this case
Did the SEC examine that question at all in this case?
And did it take any position?
MR. SHAPIRO: In this case it took no
position on the merit of the underlying claims, but it
said that there would be serious problems if antitrust
law were applied to these allegations. It would
interfere with the agency's ability to define what is
manipulation and to amend its definitions. It has
ongoing rulemaking proceedings right now addressed to
this issue; and it said further that it would discourage
underwriters from going up to the line of prohibition,
which is very important in this area.
Because if they don't step over the line and
they engage in book building conversations, that's
critical to setting the right price for the IPO. And so
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How should we, we
weigh -- Congress is asking with respect to securities,
private securities litigation, Congress looked at that
and thought some restraint had to be placed on private
actions, but it didn't do anything with respect to
antitrust private action.
MR. SHAPIRO: We think part of the
repugnance analysis here should focus on the fact that
these securities claims have simply been repleaded as
antitrust claims. Congress wasn't aware of any problem
of this sort; nobody had attempted to replead securities
violations like tie-ins and excessive compensation as
antitrust claims. And Congress of course relied --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Doesn't, doesn't the
statute specifically provide for -- for exactly this
possibility? Doesn't both the '33 and the '34 act have
a saving other remedies clause?
MR. SHAPIRO: It doesn't refer to antitrust
cases. Those were references to state law remedies that
Congress later contracted with the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Was it -- were those two
clauses expressly limited to state law remedies?
MR. SHAPIRO: No. They referred to other
claims, Your Honor, but they don't refer to antitrust.
So we don't believe --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But do they have to?
MR. SHAPIRO: We don't believe --
JUSTICE SOUTER: None of the claims includes
an antitrust claim on its face.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, we think -- we think
they don't apply to antitrust, and in Gordon and NASD
those same provisions were in place but that didn't
deter the Court from finding them --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't even think we
mentioned them. Did we mention them?
MR. SHAPIRO: Pardon me?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did we mention them in
those cases?
MR. SHAPIRO: I don't believe the Court did.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, maybe we just forgot.
(Laughter.)
MR. SHAPIRO: They -- well, they -- they
don't pertain to antitrust. If you look at the history
of those provisions they are talking about state causes
of action and there's no reference to antitrust as such
in them.
That's quite different from Trinko where
there was an antitrust savings clause that went on in
detail about saving the antitrust cause of action.
The danger of conflict that the SEC is
talking about here is an acute danger to its ability to
--
JUSTICE BREYER: What happened in respect to
the SEC? What about primary jurisdiction? That's what
I wondered as I read this. Nobody mentions it. But
there's certainly a lot of precedent in the area in this
kind of thing. You ask the agency, have to go to the
agency, see what they say.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, Your Honor, the reason
it doesn't get mentioned is in that Gordon the Court
held primary jurisdiction was not a fix for this kind of
conflict. And here the SEC has expressed its opinion in
its amicus briefs already. The Court is aware of those
positions laid out in our cert petition --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The allegations in this
are quite different from Gordon. There you have got a
horizontal -- allegedly horizontal agreement. Here you
have got a vertical agreement which it seems to me
depends on non-disclosure for it work at all. If there
been full disclosure of all these laddering and
flippings I don't see how in the world you would ever
get a -- an antitrust violation.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, Your Honor, the conflict
is different, but it's really quite a more serious
conflict than it was in Gordon. In Gordon the only
concern was the SEC might reinstitute fixed rates in the
future, and it never did that in 30 years. Here the SEC
says the conflict goes to our ability to define
manipulation and to amend our rules which we're in the
process of doing and we can't have conduct deterred.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Mr. Shapiro,
you're doing a good job of defending the SEC's interests
but your position goes considerably beyond their
position today.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, the SEC in the lower
courts advocated dismissal of the complaints; and in the
Supreme Court, of course, they've -- they've urged for a
vacator of the lower court decision. And the brief of
the SG echoes many of the concerns that the SEC
expressed in the lower courts.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's why I wonder about
primary jurisdiction. You put a burden on the, on the
plaintiffs to go to the agency and the agency could take
a range of positions. It might say this is absolutely
unlawful, BUT it's close enough we think an antitrust
court has no business mucking around in this. Or it's
unlawful and we don't care. Or, it's not -- in which
case they could bring their suit. Or it's -- it's not
unlawful but we don't care, or it's not unlawful and we
do care.
I mean, there is a range of positions they
could take which was the purpose of the primary
jurisdiction doctrine, to see in the context of the
particular conduct, not general but in the context of
the particular conduct, what the agency thought about
this in terms of its regulatory mission.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I think Gordon is very
informative on that point. It rejected primary
jurisdiction because the agency's views were already
known to the Court. Here the SEC has filed a 40-page
submission in the district court explaining that the
suit has to be dismissed because of conflict with the
administrative scheme.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's in respect to the
particular conduct at issue here.
MR. SHAPIRO: Absolutely. The particular
conduct at issue --
JUSTICE BREYER: Of course the Petitioners
have not had an opportunity, I would think -- they filed
a complaint. But they've not had an opportunity to
argue this out in front of the SEC with particular
evidence, with particular witnesses, et cetera.
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, what this Court said in
Gordon was that it's a legal question whether there is
potential interference with the administrative scheme
for us to decide the SEC's views are entitled to
considerable deference, the Court said. But if they've
been submitted in the form of amicus briefs, that is
sufficient to demonstrate the repugnance.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose if primary
jurisdiction were a cure-all, there would never be any
cases in which the regulatory scheme did not displace
the antitrust laws.
MR. SHAPIRO: That's absolutely right. In
that case, where the Court did refer an antitrust issue,
the agency declined to take the reference. And
here there there was a factual issue the agency was
supposed to opine on. Here we have a pure legal
question, the Court has held, of potential repugnance
with the SEC scheme. That's for the Court to decide.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The difference between
this case and Gordon is that this case, the heart of
their allegations are failure to disclose which is
quintessentially the SEC's business, making sure
disclosures are right. I don't think if there were
disclosure, they would have a problem in this case. Am
I missing something on that?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, what the SEC says is
that if the conduct is ordinary book building,
communications about future transactions, at future
prices, there's no misconduct to be disclosed. It is
perfectly permissible.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The allegation in the
complaint is there was no disclosure.
MR. SHAPIRO: The complaint alleges an
antitrust violation. Just that there was agreement to
engage in tie-ins, and an agreement not to --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The allegation is the
agreement -- the agreement not to disclose.
MR. SHAPIRO: That certainly highlights why
this is an SEC case and not an antitrust case, it seems
to me, because that -- disclosure is for this
administrative agency to wrestle with, and it has made
clear that investor welfare will be harmed and issuer
welfare will be harmed if these sensitive questions are
taken from it and are frozen by antitrust judgments.
That was the problem the Court faced in NASD and it was
the problem the Court faced in Gordon.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me just ask one more
question, Mr. Shapiro. Supposing there had been full
disclosure here. Do you think there would be an
antitrust violation?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, in part, I would say
yes, there was an agreement in restraint of trade --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Agreeing on what the --
MR. SHAPIRO: Yeah, that's their theory.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The preliminary before the
IPO. But what they did after the IPO, would that
violate the antitrust laws?
MR. SHAPIRO: Really what they are alleging
is a conspiracy to violate the securities laws here,
that had some -- what they claim, a market effect. And
it is the agreement that they contend is an unreasonable
restraint of trade or they refer to the compensation
payments as excessive commercial bribes. They say that
violates the Robinson-Patman Act.
The trouble is no matter how you phrase
this, no matter how they could amend their pleading,
inherent in the case are challenges to tie-ins and
alleged excessive compensation payments that under the
securities laws have to be regulated by the SEC. The
Government has to speak with one voice on this issue
under one set of standards, or administrative law gets
frozen. And there's a huge deterrent effect on
underwriters.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are there many situations
in which a particular industry is subject to regulators
and they sometimes conflict? Like EPA and OSHA?
MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, yes. Under these two
decisions of the Court, NASD and Gordon, there has to be
active supervision or pervasive regulation by the
agency, and then a direct conflict with what the SEC is
trying to accomplish.
There are a number of things that can be
regulated even under the antitrust laws under those
standards. NASD and Gordon didn't stop all antitrust
litigation in its tracks. Only things that were within
the agency's supervisory jurisdiction to present --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The EPA is not a hands-on
regulatory agency the way the SEC is. It has not been
given an entire industry to regulate.
MR. SHAPIRO: I think that's right, Your
Honor. The '33 Act, if you look at the Act, every
provision in it is focused on IPOs. It is state of the
art comprehensive legislation. The '34 Act in three
separate provisions gives the SEC power to define
manipulation. Then it has rulemaking power and then it
has exemption power. This is comprehensive. It is far
more pervasive than the kind of regulation that was
before the Court in NASD. In that case, there was just
unexercised rulemaking power. Here we have got
voluminous regulations, we have interpretations, we have
many enforcement actions aimed at this very same
conduct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the Government says
that's fine where the regulations have been issued, and
where they -- where they render the action here lawful.
There's no -- no problemo. What's wrong with that?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well, the Government says --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The Government's willing,
in other words, to give the SEC carte blanche. Whatever
you say is lawful is lawful that won't violate the
antitrust laws.
MR. SHAPIRO: We think immunity extends
beyond what is expressly permitted by the SEC. The way
the Court phrased it in NASD was things that are
connected to the agency's regulatory responsibility have
to be immunized to allow the agency to do its task. And
that extends a little bit further than the permission
standard that the Government has given.
And there --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Extends a lot further, I
would think.
MR. SHAPIRO: I would think it does. I
would think the NASD case would come out the other way
under the standard the SG is using today. But we think
we win under the inextricably intertwined standard,
because all of this conduct is closely connected to what
is permissible. There's a very fine line between what
is forbidden and what is permitted. They can ask about
future market prices. They can give the IPOs to their
best customers, but they can't solicit a transaction in
the immediate aftermarket while the IPO is still --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So we could decide that
way. We could say, we don't have to decide what the
standard is, even if it is inextricably intertwined as
the Government does, you would win, you would be
happy --
MR. SHAPIRO: We would win under either of
these standards. But what we advocate is dismissal with
prejudice, which is the relief the Court gave in the
NASD case, and not a shapeless remand of the case for
further pleading. And the reason for that is that the
interference would overhang the market. The
interference would affect the SEC's ability to lay down
the standards and encourage conduct going up to the line
of prohibition.
And the remedy that the Court approved in
NASD is exactly appropriate here, dismissal with
prejudice. These plaintiffs did not even seek to amend
their complaints in the lower courts. Under Second
Circuit law, they've waived their right to seek an
amendment. So we, in sum, urge the Court to stick with
its own standards in NASD and Gordon. The standards are
not broken. They don't need to be fixed. Nobody has
pointed to any changed circumstances that would warrant
a change in this Court's decisions, and those decisions
require dismissal with prejudice.
If there are no further questions, we'd
reserve the balance of our time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Shapiro.
General Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING PETITIONERS
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The United States has responsibility for
enforcing both the securities laws through the SEC and
the antitrust laws through the Justice Department and
the FTC. It thus has a critical interest in ensuring
that these laws can be reconciled in a manner that gives
effect to both, and completely ousts neither. Any
effort to try to reconcile those laws in the specific
context of the underwriting of IPOs has to begin with an
understanding of the particular regulatory context and
scheme. The SEC obviously carefully regulates both the
registration and the underwriting process for individual
IPOs.
There are two aspects of that regulatory
regime that are particularly important: First, the
approval for all sorts of collaborative conduct that is
the hallmark of the underwriting syndicate. And second,
the very fine nature of the distinctions that the SEC
draws between permissible book building activity and
impermissible market manipulation.
And in that regulatory context, the kind of
collaborative conduct that would in many other contexts
raise yellow or red flags of an antitrust violation is
innocuous, because it's a hallmark of the underwriting
process.
Equally important, the SEC does make certain
conduct like tie-ins and laddering unlawful, but very
closely related conduct is not only permissible, but is
considered beneficial to the capital formation process.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question
about the laddering and so forth? If it were fully
disclosed, would it be unlawful under either statute.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think it might, Justice
Stevens. The prohibitions on laddering and tie-ins are
not just disclosure provisions. And I think as a
practical matter, if these kind of things were
disclosed, they probably wouldn't happen. So it's a
little hard to --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I can see how they would
affect the market if they were disclosed.
GENERAL CLEMENT: That may be true, but the
way the regulation approaches that conduct is a little
bit more of a prophylactic approach. It's not just a
disclosure approach, and it does say that there's
conduct that is forbidden. But I think it is important
to recognize just how fine the lines that are drawn here
become, because, to give you a real world example, the
guidance document that's at page 216A of the petition
appendix makes clear that it is permissible for the lead
underwriter, when talking to customers, to gauge their
interest at various price points in the initial
offering.
JUSTICE ALITO: In light of the very fine
line, how is the Court to distinguish between --
determine whether what's alleged is inextricably
intertwined with authorized conduct?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think if you were
looking at a challenge that took place solely within the
context of a single IPO, it would probably be so
difficult that I think we would concede that you can't
practically separate the two. What I think is important
from the standpoint of the Justice Department and its
antitrust responsibilities is you don't want to sweep an
immunity so broad that it would, say, give cover to a
conspiracy that cut across IPOs, and was an effort to
fix commission rates, or to make territorial agreements,
or exclude a rival investment bank from the underwriting
process.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the problem you address
has been a problem of strike suits. And it is the
problem that Congress addressed in its legislation.
Shake downs. It just is less expensive to pay off the
suitor than it is to litigate it to a final conclusion,
where that conclusion is highly uncertain.
And I don't see how your -- your solution of
inextricably intertwined, where there's a penalty of
treble damages if you guess wrong about that line, I
don't see how that's going to stop the strike suits any
more than the current situation does.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wouldn't want to roll the
dice on whether something is inextricably intertwined,
with treble damages at the end.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, I
think that you could certainly perform this test and
make the test protect conduct sufficient to protect
against that threat. We are certainly sensitive to the
threat that a regulatory agency is trying to draw a fine
line between two closely related areas of conduct.
They're not going to be able to enforce that line as a
practical matter if the regulated community knows that
the consequence of having a foot fault in crossing that
line will be treble damages in a class action suit.
On the other hand, we would caution against
adopting some sort of broad immunity that would
preclude, say, the Justice Department from investigating
and prosecuting an antitrust conspiracy that cut across
IPOs. And of course, the Congress has addressed the
problem of treble damages directly in a number of areas.
And I suppose, if they were to address the area in the
antitrust context, they might draw a distinction between
private treble damages suits and Government enforcement
efforts. Now, that's a little hard to do --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They might, but they
haven't yet. A couple of times you've used this phrase
cutting across IPOs. Are you saying there should be an
absolute immunity from antitrust prosecution within a
single IPO?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, I mean,
I would warn you off of sort of saying absolutely no. I
think as a practical matter, though, it is going to be
-- I mean, I can't conceive of a ready example of where
an allegation that is specific to an internal single IPO
would really be practically inseparable. So I think the
role of the antitrust laws will largely be in
allegations that cut across IPOs.
JUSTICE BREYER: And even then, why do you
take the other position? It is pretty easy to imagine
the SEC, under some circumstances, deciding that's a
proper way to market securities, to have some kinds of
agreements between IPOs or something like that. I don't
see why not.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I suppose it's
possible, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: It is possible. I'm back
to Justice Alito's question. I mean, if you're worried
about taking authority from the Department to prosecute
territorial restrictions as some kind of blatant price
fix, that's not in front of us. So this doesn't have to
be precedent for that.
You're talking about this case. And there,
I think the Respondent -- the Petitioners here say that
my goodness, we don't see any way that a district court
is going to be able to start talking about whether this
evidence is protected. What does that mean, protected?
Maybe protected here, because they have thought about
it, but there will be a lot of cases where the SEC
hasn't thought about the particular conduct. We don't
know what they're going to prove.
I'm back to Justice Alito. How is anybody
going to administer the standard that you are asking the
Court to enunciate?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think if you draw
a distinction between intraIPO allegations and interIPO
allegations, you go a long way towards doing it. And I
should note, that's basically the line this Court drew
in NASD.
If you look particularly at the part of the
decision that deals with count 1 of the Government's
complaint, that was a horizontal allegation. And it was
all in the context of vertical agreements that were
specific to a particular mutual fund.
And in that context, this Court said that
with respect to the horizontal agreement, there's
nothing in the SEC regulations that specifically
addresses that, but the SEC specifically blesses the
vertical agreements, so we're going to give additional
immunity to that horizontal agreement. That same page,
page 733 of the opinion, they say, what we don't have
before us is an allegation by the government that there
is a scheme here to reduce competition between mutual
funds. There is no allegation that they were trying to
cut down, there was an agreement that would cut down
competition between Fidelity and Wellington, for
example. It was all in the context of individual funds
and retarding the secondary market for individual funds.
The language the Court used on page 733
of that opinion seems to us a perfectly reasonable test.
The Court said, quote: "The close relationship is
fatal" the close relationship between what the SEC had
prohibited in the vertical context and what was sought
to be gone after in the context of the horizontal
restraints, those are too closely related. I don't
think that test has caused the undue confusion. And I
think what it does it makes a reasonable balance between
a ruling that on the one hand preserves a great deal of
immunity, but on the other hand doesn't give a kind of
blanket immunity that would basically completely oust
the antitrust laws. And I think that's the balance we
hope to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What happens on remand in
this very case based on your theory? You are not
adopting the district judge's position that this case
should be dismissed outright.
GENERAL CLEMENT: That's right,
Justice Ginsburg, and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What happens when it goes
back?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think this Court
could do one of two things. I mean, the Petitioners for
their part have pointed to in footnote 6 of the blue
briefs, to a variety of Second Circuit precedents about
the standards for repleading. Perhaps the easiest
course for this Court would be to just vacate and let
the Second Circuit apply its own law of repleading.
That would be one option. The other option would be --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why, if this is a
sprawling complaint and if the problem is that it says
too much or too vaguely? A district court doesn't have
to leave the pleader to its own devices. It can have a
pretrial conference and say, now let's get this whole
thing in order, and it's not that the pleader is left
alone to do what he or she will.
But in complex cases like this, the district
judge will often assert control from the beginning and
not leave the parties to do what they want.
GENERAL CLEMENT: We would have no objection
to that, Justice Ginsburg. And I would say, you know,
you might say that, particularly based on the guidance
this Court gives in this case and the guidance this
Court gives perhaps in the Twombley case, that it might
be fair to let the plaintiffs have a crack at making a
new complaint in this area. Oh the other hand, as I
say, we would have no objection to just allowing the
Second Circuit to sort it out based on Second Circuit
pleading law. I think the important thing from our
perspective --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What would, what would a
satisfactory complaint for this party look like?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg,
it's a little hard for me to frame that complaint. I
think if it focused on inter-IPO allegations and,
contrary to this complaint, paragraph 42 of this
complaint, actually alleges that there were a variety of
different mechanisms that were used, that doesn't sound
like what you would expect from a disagreement that cut
across IPOs. You'd expect uniform conduct to be
alleged. And if there was that sort of conduct and it
was alleged to violate both regulatory regimes in a
clear way, then maybe it could go forward.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
General Clement.
Mr. Lovell.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER LOVELL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. LOVELL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
This Court's decisions in NASD and National
Gerimedical determined that implied immunity is not
favored, is justified only by a, quote, "convincing
showing of clear repugnancy," and then, quote, "only to
the minimum extent necessary," close quote. It is not
necessary to make the securities laws work to permit a
conspiracy to engage in conduct that the securities laws
have been trying to stop since their inception.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it might well be,
because the reasoning would be, which I find very
strong, is that as soon as you make an, bring an
antitrust court in, you're talking about juries and
treble damages. And as soon as that happens, the people
who are subject to it stay miles away from the conduct
that, in fact, would subject them to liability. And yet
staying miles away, they will not engage in conduct
that, A, the SEC might believe is permissible, or, B,
actually favor.
Where you get a complex complaint like
yours, that begins to ring true, that argument. And
that's what's concerning me.
MR. LOVELL: I totally disagree, with great
respect. Our complaint is that the conspiracy was to
require laddering in order to develop pools of orders
right after the stock began trading.
JUSTICE BREYER: What they say in respect to
that is the other side says it's common to try to what's
called make a book or something. I don't know these
terms.
MR. LOVELL: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And when they do, what
happens is that the marketer goes out and he asks
people: What's your plan? What are you thinking of
doing next month? What's your plan for this stock?
Hold it? Not? It doesn't require much imagination to
see how certain answers to that kind of question could
be brought by a plaintiff in perfectly good faith as
evidence that there's an agreement that next month they
will pay more for the stock and next month they'll pay a
lot more.
MR. LOVELL: That's not this case, Your
Honor. That's not this case. We say that the
underwriters made a horizontal conspiracy to inflate the
prices and to inflate their charges as a result by
requiring these laddering orders and jointly negotiating
together the amounts of the laddering.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He's not saying that that's
this case. He's just saying that it's so easy to make
allegations that action which was perfectly legitimate
amounted to action that was illegitimate. And that
question ultimately gets thrown into the laps of the
jury; and if the jury comes out the wrong way, you get
hit with treble damages.
MR. LOVELL: Your Honor, sorry for
interrupting.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm done.
MR. LOVELL: Okay.
It's like a lawyer knows what to say and
knows what not to say. This has been established for
years. You cannot say in the securities business, Your
Honor -- and we don't know this; we know what to do as
lawyers. You cannot say it's a quid pro quo, I'm going
to negotiate with you how much you have to purchase.
That type of conduct created pools during the 1920s and
the early 30s which manipulated prices to unsustainable
levels that led to the great stock market crash and
maybe the depression. The legislative history said: We
want to stop pools. In section 982 of the Securities
and Exchange Act it says, quote, "One person or more
cannot work together to raise prices."
We allege that the first part of this
horizontal conspiracy, across underwriters and across
IPOs, was to require the laddering in order to raise
prices.
JUSTICE BREYER: The problem -- I'd be
repeating it. we're not talking about, say, your case.
I don't know what your evidence is. But let's imagine a
case where the evidence of just what you said consists
of some rather ambiguous discussions which might be
characterized in a variety of ways, including the way
the way the plaintiff wants to characterize it, who
would repeat the very words you just said.
Now, the issue, it seems to me here, is in
light of that possibility, do we want an antitrust judge
to say whether that's so? I know you do. Or do you
want the SEC to say whether that's so in the particular
case? Or that's why I thought of primary jurisdiction:
Maybe first send it to the SEC.
What's your view?
MR. LOVELL: Well, I'll do primary
jurisdiction last, Your Honor. My view is that to bring
in the other case is, in effect, to exculpate antitrust
violations. On this narrow case that we've alleged,
under Connelly versus Gibson there is no other case.
Anybody who's charged with murder or any serious conduct
could say: Well, you can't really apply that because
this is the other case.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you if your
conspiracy allegation would be the same if there were
only one underwriter?
MR. LOVELL: No. No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It is critical to your
case that there are multiple underwriters?
MR. LOVELL: Yes, yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: What if we thought that
the activities of the multiple underwriters were
Comparable to a single joint venture? In many respects
they're like a joint venture. Would that mean your
whole case could collapse? In other words, I'm really
wondering to what extent you're depending on your
horizontal agreement as opposed to the vertical
arrangements like laddering and flipping and that sort
of thing.
MR. LOVELL: We totally depend on the
horizontal agreement, Your Honor. The case rises or
falls on the horizontal agreement among underwriters to
require that which the securities law --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If there had just been the
vertical agreements and if they had been fully
disclosed, there would no antitrust violation, would
there? If there had just been publicly disclosed
agreement by one underwriter with the purchasers to
engage in these activities, there would be no violation,
would there?
MR. LOVELL: If there's no market power,
we're not alleging that, and we wouldn't try to bring
that case, Your Honor. Where the antitrust laws, as
General Clement says, have their reach is that they get
the whole elephant. If we prove that the underwriters
conspired as we alleged, and there's five administrative
complaints here -- it's not something where it's is a
strike suit. There's five administrative complaints
finding this parallel unlawful conduct, which would work
best through a conspiracy.
And we have our allegations in the complaint
that they worked jointly together to do in this case
what's always been prohibited under the securities laws.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about the
Solicitor General's suggestion about extending antitrust
immunity to a single IPO? In other words, what's wrong
with that? That's where the SEC's regulation seems to
be most pervasive, and what you can do in the context of
an IPO if your allegations cut across IPOs that might be
different.
MR. LOVELL: It's a hypothetical. We're not
trying to do an individual case. I don't have a strong
position on it. There is a case called Roth berg in the
Eastern District of New York -- the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, a district court case, that recognized an
antitrust violation in a single stock manipulation.
There are other cases called Shumway and -- and I forget
the other case -- that said, no, you can't have it.
They've gone both ways.
It wouldn't matter to our case at all.
We're trying to get at -- the securities laws are
transactional. They can't get at a big wrong like this.
They only get their own part of the elephant. The
antitrust laws, this is business as usual, step into my
office. As General Clement says, the antitrust laws
come if we prove that there was a horizontal agreement.
Then all of these individual efforts --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What are you talking
about when you say a horizontal agreement? Are you
talking about a group of underwriters in the context of
a single IPO?
MR. LOVELL: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No.
MR. LOVELL: No, Your Honor. It's across
IPOs and across underwriters. They changed their
business. They all changed the business at about the
same time: This is the way we're going to operate.
We're going to require the laddering orders. That moves
the price up. And we're going to require another type
of tie-in agreement that allows the underwriters to
participate in the customer's profits from the
difference between the IPO price and the inflated prices
at which transaction sales were made right after the
IPO.
JUSTICE BREYER: What about an agreement
among underwriters, among underwriters, which says the
following: We agree that we go -- when we go on our
tour, we will be certain to ask the potential purchasers
whether they plan to hold this stock for at least a
month.
MR. LOVELL: No problem.
JUSTICE BREYER: No problem.
MR. LOVELL: Never.
JUSTICE BREYER: How do you know that isn't
a disguise when they say --
MR. LOVELL: We wouldn't bring the case,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah, ah. What they've said
was -- you see, they have the same allegations. I don't
know how to -- you see what I'm driving at?
MR. LOVELL: Yes. Yes, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: What's the answer?
MR. LOVELL: I don't think it fits into the
way of this narrow case and the facts that are presented
for immunity here, which the Congress has been trying to
stop forever, and the conduct's spread between 1997 and
2001 and was a massive violation that the securities
laws really aren't cut out to address. I know I'm
getting off your question a little bit, but in the
NASDAQ antitrust litigation these defendants and their
predecessors agreed to keep the spreads wide in
the over-the-counter market. There were rules about
maximum spreads. There were many rules, many
regulations.
However, it was never permitted in the
securities markets for all the underwriters across 5,000
stocks -- we only proved it out to 1600 -- to widen
their spreads, to keep their bids and offers wide.
Billions of dollars -- the Justice Department after we
brought the case, the Justice Department brought a case.
The entire industry was changed. You can now trade a
million dollars worth of stock for less than it costs to
change your tire or something. And it's all due to the
antitrust -- I'm sorry, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm trying to grasp
the difference between the single IPO and multiple. So
in response to Justice Breyer's hypothetical, they all
agree in the context of a single IPO, let's make sure
everyone's going to hold the stock for a month, and you
say no problem.
MR. LOVELL: No problem.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if the same
underwriters get together the next month, they've got a
different IPO and they say, you know, let's do the same
thing we did last time because seemed to work well in
terms of the issuance and the capital formation. All of
a sudden that's an antitrust problem?
MR. LOVELL: No. The basis for my answer is
two levels of no problem. There's not a problem as to
the single deal and there's not a problem as to saying
you have to hold the stock. That's not at issue. We
have no problem with that.
What's always been prohibited is to create
pools of orders to drive up the price of the stock. If
you work to raise the price of the stock, which this was
all geared to do, after it came public, it drives prices
to unsustainable levels. It creates a lot of action in
the stock. People come in and buy. Our clients buy
directly from the defendants who are driving the stock
up. And yes, there was no disclosure. As with any
antitrust conspiracy, if there was disclosure there
could have been --
JUSTICE BREYER: Can you get damages for
that from the SEC? I mean, it sounds like bad conduct.
MR. LOVELL: The SEC refers the customers to
the private lawyers if you complain. The securities
laws are totally different from the ICC, from the common
carrier case.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose you lose, your
client -- suppose all these bad things happen and you
don't have an antitrust claim. Is there somewhere in
the law that you can get damages?
MR. LOVELL: Yes.
Where?
MR. LOVELL: The specific intent of Congress
in creating the securities laws was to create private
remedies which are available, and to preserve all other
remedies, including --
JUSTICE BREYER: So what's at issue here is
not whether you get a remedy. It's whether you get
treble damages.
MR. LOVELL: No. Theoretically, there are
other remedies as to each individual client for what
each individual client did. No one can address in a
securities case the wrong that happens here. The
agreement. That can only be addressed as
General Clement says at page 22 of the brief, through an
antitrust case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is that? I don't
understand why the SEC could not -- they can make rules
for a single IPO; it seems to me they can make rules for
coordination of IPO. Why can't they do that?
MR. LOVELL: Well, the SEC could make a rule
to prohibit -- to further supplement the protections.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right, right.
MR. LOVELL: Yes, Your Honor. They could
supplement the prohibitions --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They have chosen not to.
MR. LOVELL: Well, it -- it -- I think it's
more institutional that the focus has always been
transactional, Your Honor. And the Congress clearly in
982 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 clearly
prohibits individual or joint efforts to raise prices,
empowers private investors to sue, empowers the SEC to
sue --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but --
MR. LOVELL: There could have been a suit by
now but it has never happened.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you -- you could regard
the activity of laddering and of making a book on a
stock when the -- in the case of a single offering. You
could -- you could look upon that as, as an attempt to
raise the price. That's what it is, isn't it? An
attempt to make sure there's going to be a high enough
price for the stock so that it won't flop once it's out
there?
MR. LOVELL: In the -- there's huge
qualitative differences between certain types of conduct
which has always been accepted and was not prohibited in
the securities laws and laddering or pools of orders to
raise prices and tie-in agreements. The only metaphor I
can throw out, Your Honor, is that we know how far we
can say and what we can't say, the brokers always know
this, until 1997 to 2001 when they -- they changed their
underwriting businesses to go -- and we, we allege that
they required, induced, solicited -- not that they did
things on the way -- close to the line or -- in the,
what had always been the accepted area, the world
changed. And that change moved into the territory that
had -- sorry for hurrying -- that had always been
prohibited.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah. And you're saying
they did this just -- not in the context of just single
IPOs, but that they agreed across IPOs that they would
all do this.
MR. LOVELL: Yes, Your Honor, across IPOs
and across underwriters, so that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why?
MR. LOVELL: So that a customer couldn't go
to another underwriter for a different deal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Uh-huh. The customer being
the issuer?
MR. LOVELL: No, no. The public customers
who have accounts with the underwriters; they're also
brokerage firms. If they wanted to get an IPO in what
we call class security, the technologies securities,
they had to pay --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They'd have to pay the
premium.
MR. LOVELL: Yeah. They had to pay these
unlawful charges under securities laws, no matter where
they went. And in terms of the inextricably
intertwined, it is the qualitative difference that stops
that.
I think behind the Solicitor General and the
SEC's proposal is a fear that the syndicates, the
underwriters are vulnerable to an antitrust case because
they operate together. That's not true. There's never
been a case precisely like this; and the underwriters as
brokers, as market makers, they operate together and
cooperatively all the time. Five years goes by. Seven
years goes by. There's no antitrust case --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So what are the
words you use in the opinion, that would separate your
case, where it is like price fixing and so forth, to
charge them, from the case that they're worried about,
which is where the evidence is, to prove the allegation
is, really involves activity that could be quite
legitimate?
Now, now -- what words would I write in the
opinion that in your opinion would separate the sheep
from the goats?
MR. LOVELL: They agreed to inflate prices
in precisely the way the securities laws have always
prohibited. They agreed to inflate prices and they
agreed to make tie-in agreements that have always been
prohibited under the securities laws, to participate in
the profits from the inflated prices, which they were
not permitted to participate in.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your test is it
has to be prohibited by the securities laws?
MR. LOVELL: No. But in this narrow case,
it happens to be that the method that they went to,
which was always a guaranteed method to drive up prices
and to participate, was -- had always been prohibited by
the securities laws.
It is not the test. The test for the
antitrust claim is merely this: they wanted to make an
agreement to inflate prices and they wanted to make an
agreement to inflate their charges. And if a customer
came to this underwriting trust at the time to deal with
them, they had to do this type of transaction to inflate
the price, and they had to pay the underwriting extra --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you say to
the -- sort of stepping back from the trees to the
forest, to the general suggestion that Congress has been
tightening up the requirements for private securities
litigation over the past few years; and you're bringing
this now as antitrust claims as a way to circumvent
Congress's regulation.
MR. LOVELL: That the actual facts show that
Congress wanted this claim to be brought. Certain --
Congress is well aware of the NASDAQ antitrust
litigation and of the Salomon Brothers antitrust
litigation, both antitrust claims in the securities
markets. Both situations where the diligent
professionals at the SEC were criticized by the
congressional oversight people for not finding out what
was going on, perhaps, and that the antitrust bar did
and brought the case, and then the DOJ brought it and
then there was questions.
JUSTICE BREYER: What about -- what about --
listen to what I'm about to say. I'm thinking of the
standard.
The standard would be where the allegations
are such, where the case is such that -- to go
further -- that, one, it is an allegation of a claim of
illegality; is price fixing, in price fixing; and it is
of longstandingly prohibited under the securities law;
and there is evidence to support that, of -- strong
evidence to support it, or the evidence in support
thereof is not primarily evidence simply of asking the
jury to draw inferences from conduct that is protected.
Under those circumstances there is no immunity.
MR. LOVELL: Bingo. That -- we live with
all that, Your Honor. To quote -- sorry, sorry.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know if it's -- I
mean, you know --
(Laughter.)
MR. LOVELL: No, no - but we agree on every
one. But to go back --
JUSTICE ALITO: How could the Court -- how
could a court enforce that at the 12(b)(6) stage?
Determining whether there's strong evidence of one type
or another.
MR. LOVELL: Well, in this particular case,
Your Honor, there's five administrative proceedings that
have, that have come forth since we -- we filed first,
and there was nothing. And -- but since then there have
been a lot of administrative proceedings. I would say
that the fact that parallel unusual -- unlawful conduct
is occurring in a way that the horizontal people who are
doing it inflate their prices at the expense of the
public, would satisfy any test.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Look, the question isn't
whether it satisfies it. The question is whether you
can get rid of this suit at the outset or do you have to
go through enormously expensive discovery, which --
which isn't worth the candle.
MR. LOVELL: Your Honor, I think you have --
for the good of the country, I think you have to follow
the facts and find out if these people conspired as
alleged.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- discovery? Right?
MR. LOVELL: Yes. Sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the problem --
the problem is that, of course, these people are to some
extent under the securities laws in the business of
fixing prices. They get together as a syndicate, a
syndicate, and say well, you have to figure out what
price we're going to charge for this initial public
offering. It looks, if you didn't understand the
context, it would look an awful lot like an antitrust
violation.
And the problem is, I guess, that -- that
when you take that type of evidence, the type of
evidence you're going to be relying on to show that
there's price fixing, it is exactly what the SEC wants
the people to do. They want them to get together. They
want them to agree on an appropriate IPO price that's
going to contribute to capital formation and everything
else.
And how do you at, as Justice Alito pointed
out, at the 12(b)(6) stage, how is a district court
supposed to say well, this is the bad price fixing, this
isn't the good price fixing?
MR. LOVELL: Again it is the qualitative
difference. Everybody knows -- and the SEC does want
IPO prices to be fixed, just like in the NASD case, they
only wanted one price for the mutual fund shares because
people could be disadvantaged. However, everybody also
knows under Section 982 and Section 17 of the Securities
Act, that you don't go over and rig the after market,
not even in one stock, let alone what we allege, across
stocks. And with regard to the question earlier, Your
Honor, about how Congress --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think you've
answered his question.
MR. LOVELL: Oh, I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think that you've said
that the two were different. His question was how can
you tell at the outset, at the 12(b)(6) stage, the
difference between those two things that you've
mentioned? Sure they're different but -- but the
evidence that is only evidence of the one also looks
like evidence of the other.
MR. LOVELL: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What is the particular
difference between supporting the price and rigging the
aftermarket? I mean, how do we tell that at the
12(b)(6)?
MR. LOVELL: You look, you compare the cases
to the language in the complaint. In paragraphs 4 and 5
of the complaint we say that they agreed to require
laddering, they agreed to require this. We don't say
that they made any -- any hints or legitimate activity.
We're held to that burden of proof. You look at the
cases, required has always been unlawful. To require a
pool of orders to drive up the prices -- always
unlawful.
And Congress during the 1990s did narrow the
securities laws; and they took away treble damages as to
RICO, and they stopped resorting to state court, where
the standards weren't as stringent as under the PS law
-- for class action. However, they knew about these
antitrust cases that had saved billions of dollars for
consumers. They applauded them. And they reenacted the
savings clause that says all rights and remedies are
preserved.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How did they applaud
them?
MR. LOVELL: Well, they just said that they
-- Congress -- that's too strong a statement. The
specific Congress people involved were glad that the --
the wrongdoing was uncovered and said as much and wrote
to the Attorney General, and the SEC, and said why --
why wasn't it found sooner?
But they did not touch these antitrust
actions. Number one, they come very infrequently.
Number two, they've done great benefit for the
securities markets and for the participants in the
securities markets, and even for the defendants
themselves. They forced the defendants to operate by
talent and bring out their best, and not resort to what
the problems for the public always is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The SEC which is the
agency charged with supervising those markets, thinks
otherwise.
MR. LOVELL: No -- no.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They don't think
these, the antitrust actions are good for the securities
markets.
MR. LOVELL: The SEC -- and this is the
first immunity case before the court where the SEC and
the DOJ both are in favor of not having substantive
immunity. They both oppose immunity.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that wasn't the SEC's
position below, was it?
MR. LOVELL: No. No, it was not, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the Justice Department
was on one side, the SEC was on the other. Right?
MR. LOVELL: Yes, Your Honor. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It looks to me like they
split the baby up here.
(Laughter.)
MR. LOVELL: I -- I -- that's the only way I
can see it. But if Your Honor looks at the questions
that the SEC answered to Second Circuit, the SEC said
they couldn't say how the current laws couldn't work on
the facts of this case, but future cases might present a
closer case, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: I would always -- I think
the standard I was more or less talking about is pretty
close to what the SG says. And I think he says that --
that -- that Justice Alito's point, which is certainly a
good point, is that you would have to allege facts such
that it was clear from the face of the complaint that
you weren't resting your case on the conduct that was --
that's what he means by protected -- and there's an
ongoing obligation, it says, on the part of the district
judge to be sure that the case isn't really growing out
of this conduct that is arguably okay.
MR. LOVELL: Protected conduct. And we
could live with --
JUSTICE BREYER: You, you could live with
the SG --
MR. LOVELL: We could live with that. On
the other hand, applied immunity is an affirmative
defense. It was held in Cantor versus Detroit Edison,
428 US 579, which didn't make it into our brief, that
applied antitrust immunity is an affirmative defense.
As we brief, there's a long line of cases from Your
Honors that say that you don't have to plead in the
complaint to negate an affirmative defense.
I don't think that unlawful conduct under
the securities laws is entitled to more protection than
free speech or some of the conduct in these other cases;
and I -- and we've opposed the inextricably intertwined
standard as particularly inappropriate where an
affirmative defense is involved.
Nonetheless, we could live with that, if it
came down. And we think the complaint already lives
with it. The complaint has, from paragraph 53 through
paragraph 63, a number of allegations of joint conduct
to do things which are clearly unlawful under the
securities laws. It does have one allegation about
holding road shows. On its own, that's permissible. We
don't have a footnote that says this is permissible on
its own. That may have caused somewhat of the problem
for -- for people.
But reading the complaint as a whole,
paragraph 5 says that these later paragraphs I just
referred to show how the time in the syndicates was
abused.
And I'm going back to this vulnerability
point. The defendants are vulnerable to an antitrust
class action plaintiffs saying, you conspired. Yes.
But it only happens -- it only happens once in a while.
And think about it. If they abuse their time in the
syndicates to create a conspiracy of this nature, to do
something that's always been prohibited under the
securities laws, and it's clearly prohibited under the
antitrust laws, why should we bend over backwards to
protect that every five years or seven years? The
normal --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You didn't have a chance
to answer Justice Breyer's question about primary
jurisdiction. Let's get the SEC's views first of
whether there is any interference with securities law
enforcement.
MR. LOVELL: The public carrier cases, the
Interstate Commerce Commission, the sea carriers and the
air carriers have had primary jurisdiction as an
approach. In order to keep it uniform, they kept the
rate and then there would be questions on the rate. So
both for administrative discretion and factfinding, the
Court said that's their baby, we're going to stay out.
The securities laws have always been totally
different. The antitrust laws - it was a little bit
patterned after the antitrust laws. Section 9(e) is
like the antitrust laws, 15 U.S.C. 15. the antitrust
laws said we want private attorney generals to go out
and sue. The securities laws said we want to give the
remedies under this act, new remedies. We want to
preserve -- preserve all other remedies, any and all
other remedies.
The single damages point raised by the
defendants in the same section is only a limit on
recovery. It's not a limit on the rights and remedies.
So the answer to primary jurisdiction is that it's
always worked this way, that the private plaintiff is
supposed to sue in court. He's expressly empowered
under securities laws to sue in court, As he's expressly
empowered under the antitrust laws, and the courts have
always resolved the issue.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but we haven't had this
problem focus before, and isn't primary jurisdiction the
most efficient answer to the problem that we've got? In
other words, isn't it time to do something different?
MR. LOVELL: No, I don't believe so, Your
Honor. The times that it's come up before in the NASDAQ
case, United States versus Morgan, the courts have said
business as usual. They used the usual implied immunity
standard and they resolve it, as usually happens. In
Richey, the Richey case and a few other cases we've
either said -- not implied immunity, but we've either
said we're not going to get involved, it's the agency's,
it's the ICC's responsibility, or it was referred one
time in the Richey case to the old Commodity Exchange
Commission, which then declined to take the referral
because -- that was an appropriate referral because it
had to do with the exchange rules.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand what
happens with this primary jurisdiction in the context of
an antitrust suit. You're entitled to a jury trial in
the antitrust suit, right?
MR. LOVELL: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And in primary
jurisdiction, would we refer it to the SEC and accept
the SEC's fact determinations and then instruct the jury
that --
MR. LOVELL: Never happened before, and it's
contrary to the -- what Congress wants. In a different
statutory context, it was what Congress wanted for
uniformity.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it is really the
factual determination that is the hang-up, that you
don't want things that are innocent and that the SEC
would know are innocent to be taken as evidence of
guilty by the jury. So you really haven't accomplished
a whole lot if you just send it over to the SEC for
rulings on the law as opposed to rulings on whether this
particular conduct violated the law.
MR. LOVELL: I agree, Your Honor.
I think that the presence here of the SEC
complaints, the SEC's fact-finding, saying that things
got out of hand during this time and the law was broken
on a widespread basis, indicate that we are not coming
forth with weak facts. And I also agree that in the
securities context, primary jurisdiction has not had the
basis it's had in other legislative contexts where
uniformity was desired.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Lovell.
Mr. Shapiro, you have four minutes
remaining.
STATEMENT OF STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SHAPIRO: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
The key question in this litigation is who's
going to design what a tie-in is and who's going to
decide what constitutes unreasonable compensation. The
plaintiffs say quite overtly in their briefs these
issues can't be left in the hands of the SEC. Well,
Congress put these issues in the hands of the SEC.
There are three separate provisions that give the SEC
power to define what is forbidden manipulation, what is
a forbidden tie-in, and what is excessive compensation.
The SEC this Court has said is an agency
that Congress had considerable confidence in in the
Gordon case and that confidence is well justified here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's your test,
Mr. Shapiro?
MR. SHAPIRO: Our test is the one the Court
laid down in those two cases: Is there active
supervision or is there pervasive regulation? If the
answer is yes to either of those, you ask, is there a
potential conflict, and if so immunity applies and the
complaint has to be dismissed. And this is true whether
you're talking about one IPO or an agreement that cuts
across several IPOs, because even in the multiple IPO
situation the jury would still have to decide, was that
a tie-in or was it something innocent; was it
unreasonable compensation or was it something that was
proper?
JUSTICE BREYER: We all agree, say a group
of underwriters, that for the next we will insist that
every customer, whatever price we charge, will pay 30
percent more for 50 percent more shares next month.
Absolutely illegal, isn't it?
MR. SHAPIRO: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: They write it down, just
what I said.
MR. SHAPIRO: The same circumstances were
presented very similar to the NASD in the Invemed case.
They had a Three-week trial, 17 experts, and they
concluded that those charges were quite permissible
considering the whole range of services that were given.
Now, if this occurred with concerted action the SEC has
power to deal with concerted action. Congress said that
they could deal with multiple party manipulations. They
have many cases where they proceeded against multiple
parties.
In the NASD case the claim was that there
was a horizontal conspiracy involving many brokers and
many underwriters, it was industrywide, it went on for
years and years. And the Government argued there it was
improper, it was contrary to the SEC's policies this.
This Court held squarely that that is within the SEC's
power to regulate and if something of that sort is
occurring the SEC can deal with it.
The test there wasn't whether it was
connected to something that was permissible. The test
was whether it was connected to the SEC's regulatory
responsibilities and the SEC could deal with that sort
of concerted action on an industrywide basis.
Now, Mr. Lovell has argued that the conduct
has always been forbidden. He labels it that way.
There are many case from this Court that we cite in our
reply brief holding that that labeling does not defeat
immunity because it's always possible to characterize
conduct in that fashion. But the agency has to apply
its expertise to decide what is forbidden and to change
its rules over time, which the SEC is now doing. And it
has to be able to prevent, deterring conduct that comes
up to the line of prohibition. Here that conduct is
essential to protect investors and to protect issuers.
The markets couldn't function efficiently if
underwriters could not engage freely in the kinds of
conversations that get twisted in this litigation into
something characterized as tie-ins.
Now, there are 310 private suits now pending
under the securities laws brought by many of these same
lawyers, making the same claims of concerted action to
manipulate the stock market. Those suits are subject to
a panoply of safeguards that Congress has prescribed,
including single damages, restrictions on class action
abuse, serious loss causation requirements.
The only purpose for stretching the
antitrust laws here is to evade all of the safeguards
that Congress has passed, each and every one of them.
We think NASD and Gordon are very important in
preventing that kind of a pleading tactic.
And of course, when counsel talks about
concerted action and manipulating the stock market, what
did Congress pass the '34 Act for if it wasn't that?
There were extensive hearings about concerted
manipulation involving pools and groups that were
manipulating the market. That's why there are several
anti-manipulation provisions in the '34 Act that give
Power to define the misconduct and to deal with it
effectively. And this is the toughest cop in
Washington, the SEC. They're perfectly capable of
dealing with this.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Shapiro.
MR. SHAPIRO: We thank the Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is now
submitted.
[Whereupon, at 11:16 a.m. the case in the
above entitled matter is submitted.]
17:6 address 20:22 34:1,4,15,20 amendment 20:2
38:9 55:23 amicus 1:22 2:6 applauded
20:24 22:1 20:19 22:24 amounted 29:16 applicable 3:20
22:13 administer ah 35:8,8 anchor 3:18 applies 55:21
23:19 aimed 15:14 answer 3:14 apply 4:3 7:22
4:7 11:4,16 al 1:6,9 3:5 51:19 52:17,25 57:15
adopting 21:23 49:17 answers 29:2 19:20
advocate 17:1 12:24 22:16 4:9,21 6:5,22 17:10 45:21
affect 17:6 19:18 31:15 41:17 7:22 8:9,11,14 approval 18:19
16:19 47:1 22:19 23:22,23 13:13,20 14:21 26:16 40:3
30:10 agency 4:7 8:23 33:1,9 35:9 18:7 19:1 arguably 49:24
46:9 8:24 10:9,9,21 43:15 50:21 20:16 21:25 argue 11:12
58:14,18 12:2,3 13:4 allege 30:12 22:4,10,18 argued 56:25
8:11,15 16:4 21:16 49:18 30:25 31:8 argument 1:15
21:21 48:13 55:12 alleged 3:16 32:11,18 33:5 2:2 3:3,7 17:25
37:7 57:15 4:24 5:1,1 14:6 33:16,24,25 27:13 28:11
51:9 agency's 6:7 20:8 27:6,7 35:20 36:9,22 arrangements
57:9 10:25 14:24 31:9 32:21 37:11,21 38:13 32:3
16:3 53:9 45:4 41:7,12 42:13 art 15:6
48:5,17 36:13 44:6 alleges 12:21 43:9 45:14 23:19 43:22
55:18 56:4 alleging 13:21 50:8 51:8,15 aspects 18:17
40:9 41:23,25 allotting 4:2 53:17,18 58:8 assume 5:11
41:18 Agreeing 13:16 allowing 26:17 58:18 attached 4:19
agreement 9:8,9 allows 34:15 anybody 23:18 attempt 39:12
16:1 Brothers 43:4 36:5,5 37:18 48:13
47:17 12:15 18:22 46:5 48:20 17:22 18:3
35:19 52:6 business 10:12 55:14 56:13,22 34:3,8 36:10
42:20 book 6:14 12:15 47:17 49:12 chosen 38:23
51:7 18:22 28:19 C 50:9,14 51:23 CHRISTOPH...
BOSTON 1:5 calibrated 5:19 56:20 Circuit 17:13
10:7 11:5,9 called 28:19 cause 8:15 26:18 49:10
27:25 28:17,22 candle 44:25 causes 8:10 5:16 17:17
41:13 43:12 36:21 45:22 29:2 34:23 42:24
50:2 56:4,10 carefully 18:14 certainly 8:22 cited 4:5
57:9 51:19 51:23 49:17 37:21 42:13
3:8 briefs 9:4 11:19 5:23,25 6:1,3 change 17:18 43:5 58:2
27:14 25:20 55:6 10:14 12:1,8,8 36:8 40:4 class 21:21
bring 10:14 28:2 12:12 13:2,2 57:16 40:21 47:16
28:8 53:2 35:6 48:10 16:11 17:3,3 34:10,11 36:6 clause 7:8 8:14
brokers 39:23 33:12,13,15,18 45:12 56:6 Clement 1:20
17:24,25 13:25 14:6 32:24 37:14 28:14 29:9 4:19 7:24 8:5
19:11,19 55:5,11 56:2 39:18 43:23 30:13 31:15 9:1,4 10:3,4,12
21:8,12 competition 4:8 44:17 49:20,24 32:25 37:11 11:1,2,14,18
23:1,21 4:17,20 24:14 49:25 50:12,14 51:12 56:23 12:1,5,6 13:8,9
26:10 24:17 50:21 54:10 conspired 32:21 14:16 15:11
27:11 complain 37:16 57:10,15,18,19 45:3 51:9 16:2 17:2,9,14
33:25 complaint 5:22 conduct's 35:16 constitutes 5:10 18:4 20:7
11:11 12:20,21 conference 26:4 55:5 23:11,20,24
26:22,24 27:1 55:13,14 47:18 25:17,22 26:2
27:21 49:19 50:11,19 11:3 14:14,18 18:12,13,24 44:8,9 45:25
49:16 50:20 51:3 55:21 20:12 22:4 47:14 48:20
21:17 complaints 10:2 confusion 25:2 24:25 33:8 55:12,17 57:2
17:12 32:22,23 Congress 4:6 34:5 36:13 57:12 58:25
18:10 25:6 22:1 35:15 contexts 18:25 52:21 53:4
44:14 comprehensive 46:12 47:12,24 contrary 27:1 cover 20:17
53:3 15:6,9 47:25 53:25 53:25 57:1 crack 26:15
conceive 22:15 56:18 58:4,9 45:22 create 37:3 38:1
28:12 43:8 6:14 57:23 creates 37:7
14:1 concerted 3:24 42:25 27:19 Credit 1:3,4 3:4
51:24 58:2,13,15 16:14 57:6,7 41:11 6:15 18:8
concluded 56:15 Connelly 31:10 coordination 31:18
conclusion 21:1 21:20 cop 58:20 crossing 21:20
conduct 9:21 11:18 55:13 counsel 58:12 curiae 1:22 2:6
11:8 12:15 9:24 country 4:9 45:2 current 21:7
17:7 18:19,25 considering course 3:15 5:12 customer 40:14
20:9 21:14,17 consists 30:19 22:1 25:22 56:6
7:3 30:5 31:11 21:25 27:23 3:10,13,17 4:5 37:15 40:18
58:19 differs 4:20 23:23 28:25 33:23
24:16,16 demonstrate diligent 43:6 DOJ 43:10 52:19,21
33:9 11:20 direct 14:18 48:21 empowers 39:4
Department directly 4:3 22:2 dollars 36:4,7 39:4
36:4,5 46:7 draw 5:16 21:16 44:9
depending 32:1 27:4 drawn 19:24 51:22
22:2 9:10 disclosed 12:17 drew 23:24 engage 6:14
28:4 depression 30:8 19:10,15,18 drive 37:4 42:9 12:23 27:23
37:13,22 design 55:4 32:11,12 47:10 28:7 32:14
47:13 desired 54:19 disclosure 9:11 drives 37:6 57:22
58:5 detail 8:15 12:12,20 13:3 driving 35:10 enormously
deter 7:24 37:10,11 due 36:8 ensuring 18:8
42:16 54:4 12:11 entitled 11:17
57:4 determinations discourage 6:10 E 50:13 53:17
58:19 53:22 discovery 44:24 E 2:1 3:1,1 59:4
16:20,21 Determining 30:20 Eastern 33:14 ESQ 1:18,20,24
57:16 44:10 disguise 35:5 33:14 2:3,5,8,10
deterring 57:18 dismissed 11:3 echoes 10:5 29:25
17:18,18 develop 28:15 displace 11:23 Edison 50:6 11:13
devices 26:3 distinction 22:4 effect 13:23 evade 58:8
difference 12:7 distinctions 31:8 46:7
37:9 46:25 district 3:13 efficiently 57:21 evidence 11:13
51:8 differences 11:2 23:11 effort 18:11 23:13 29:4
39:18 25:11 26:2,7 20:18 30:18,19 41:17
33:10 36:19 doctrine 10:19 either 16:25 46:21,21,22
45:19 fact-finding flags 19:1 future 9:18 52:9
22:15 fair 26:15 flop 39:15 25:15 28:23
faith 29:3 focus 6:24 38:25 G 41:11,12
7:3 false 4:10 focused 5:7 15:5 gauge 20:3 21:6,18 22:14
55:11 far 15:9 39:22 26:25 geared 37:6 23:12,17,19
53:11,14 fatal 24:23 following 34:22 17:25 34:12,13,14
Fidelity 24:17 forced 48:9 26:23 27:11 45:2 46:2
finding 7:24 19:7 36:21 27:18 12:8 13:9
52:19,20 fine 5:16 15:17 forth 19:9 41:15 Gibson 31:10 55:14 58:10
21:16 found 5:23 48:3 25:9,14,15,25 16:6,23 22:5
32:1 first 1:5 4:20 free 50:14 give 15:22 16:17 15:21 24:2
18:18 30:12 freely 57:22 19:25 20:17 grasp 36:10
51:20 frozen 13:7 52:10 55:9 28:13 30:7
44:17 fix 9:2 20:19 fully 19:9 32:10 26:13,14 guaranteed 42:9
23:7 function 57:21 glad 47:25 guess 21:5 45:16
49:12,18 fixing 41:15 24:19 23:23 27:8 guilty 54:7
43:18,18 45:10 further 6:10 34:22,22 39:25
FKA 1:4 38:19 43:17 44:7,24 46:9 hallmark 18:20
horizontal 9:8,8 inception 27:24 interests 9:23 40:11 55:24
26:16 29:9 30:13 including 30:21 interference issue 3:21 5:20
54:14 32:2,6,7 34:1,4 38:3 58:5 11:16 17:5,6 6:10 11:6,8
hypothetical 24:18,19 33:12 15:13 issuer 13:5
53:24 39:3 29:21 issuers 57:20
38:10 ICC 37:17 industry 14:13 intertwined issuing 4:8
51:10,10 ICC's 53:10 15:2 36:6 16:13,22 20:9
illegal 56:8 industrywide 21:4,10 41:3 J
29:16 16:13,22 20:8 intraIPO 23:22 31:24 39:3
50:6 57:2 16:19 42:15,17 44:19 20:20 judge's 25:11
37:1 50:5,8 53:5,8 inherent 14:5 involving 56:23 52:24 53:16,21
immunized 16:4 initial 20:4 IPO 6:15 13:19 jury 29:18,18
8:25 9:14 18:23 innocent 54:5,6 20:12 22:11,16 54:7 55:25
29:8,20 implied 3:13 56:1 33:6,9 34:6,17 Justice 1:21 3:3
31:7,17 27:18 53:5,8 innocuous 19:2 34:19 36:11,13 3:9 4:12,22 5:3
34:9 importance 4:19 inseparable 36:19 38:16,17 5:11,25 6:17
36:9 important 6:12 22:17 40:20 45:21 7:5,12,17,19
39:1,22 18:18 19:4,23 insist 56:5 46:5 55:23,24 7:21,25 8:3,6
44:1,13 20:14 26:19 institutional IPOs 3:16 15:5 8:19 9:6,22
46:12 58:10 38:25 16:17 18:12,16 10:7 11:5,9,21
impose 4:21 instruct 53:22 20:18 22:1,9 12:7,19,24
54:11 improper 57:1 intent 37:25 22:19,24 27:5 13:10,16,18
18:3,7 know 23:17 41:1,24 42:2,6 live 43:25 50:1,2 M 1:18 2:3,10
26:11 28:19 42:11 45:9 50:4,18 3:7 5:7 54:25
30:2,2,18 31:1 47:13 49:11 lives 50:19 makers 41:10
35:4,10,18 50:13,23 51:14 LLC 1:4,5 making 12:10
36:19 39:22,23 51:15 52:5,6,7 long 23:23 50:9 26:15 39:10
44:3,4 54:6 52:8,9,10,20 longstandingly 58:2
known 11:1 52:21 58:1,8 43:19 manipulate 58:3
knows 21:19 lawyer 29:24 look 8:9 15:4 manipulated
29:24,25 46:4 lawyers 30:3 24:1 26:22 30:6
29:13 46:8 37:16 58:2 39:12 44:21 manipulating
30:16 lay 17:6 45:14 47:3,8 58:13,17
L lead 20:2 looked 5:22 6:19 manipulation
33:4 34:3 labeling 57:13 leave 26:3,9 looking 20:11 3:17 6:8 9:20
35:2,4 labels 57:11 led 30:7 looks 45:13 15:8 18:23
36:4,5 laddering 5:3,5 left 26:5 55:7 46:21 49:5,9 33:16 55:10
9:11 19:5,9,12 legal 11:15 12:4 lose 37:19 58:16
38:4 28:15 29:11,12 legislation 15:6 loss 58:6 manipulations
30:14 32:3 20:24 lot 8:22 16:8 56:19
40:7,13 34:13 39:10,20 legislative 30:8 23:15 29:6 manner 18:9
41:13 47:6 54:18 37:7 44:16 March 1:12
43:12 laid 3:19 9:5 legitimate 29:15 45:14 54:8 market 3:16
45:5 55:18 41:19 47:7 Lovell 1:24 2:8 13:23 16:17
46:13 language 24:20 let's 26:4 30:18 27:12,13,15 17:5 18:23
47:21 47:4 36:13,19 51:20 28:13,21 29:7 19:18 22:23
laps 29:17 levels 30:7 36:24 29:20,23 31:6 24:19 30:7
largely 22:18 37:7 31:17,20 32:5 32:16 35:22
51:18,19 Laughter 8:7 liability 28:6 32:16 33:11 41:10 46:9
53:15,20 44:2,5 49:7 light 20:6 30:25 34:7,9 35:1,3,6 58:3,13,17
55:2 law 6:6 7:10,13 limit 52:15,16 35:11,13 36:16 marketer 28:23
56:4,10 14:9 17:13 limited 7:13 36:23 37:15,23 markets 36:1
59:1 25:23 26:19 line 6:11,13 37:25 38:7,18 43:6 48:7,8,13
43:19 47:15 20:7 21:5,17 39:17 40:11,14 massive 35:17
54:9,10 21:18,21 23:24 40:18,25 41:23 matter 1:14 14:3
15:23 lines 5:17 19:24 46:3,15,23 33:20 41:1
18:24 14:7,21 15:24 14:23 35:20 51:23 53:2,19 22:12,15 23:4
23:6 18:6,7,9,11 42:23 43:4,5 53:24 54:11,22 23:13 25:18
29:2 22:18 25:7 55:3 57:23 57:10 31:24 37:14
27:22,23 32:18 little 16:5 19:16 lower 10:1,4,6 44:4 47:1
35:18 37:17 26:24 35:19 mechanisms
46:20 necessary 27:21 opinion 9:3 participants 57:6
58:19 new 1:24 26:16 order 26:5 28:15 54:10 15:10 33:8
34:25 normal 51:17 37:4 39:20 parties 26:9 Petitioners 1:7
56:7 note 23:24 47:10 56:21 1:19,23 2:4,7
36:11 objection 26:10 46:18 17:25 place 7:23 20:11
56:19,20 26:17 overhang 17:5 pay 20:25 29:5,5 placed 6:20
obviously 18:14 over-the-coun... payments 14:1,6 plaintiffs 10:9
42:7 39:11 45:13 page 2:2 20:1 people 28:4,24 plead 50:10
offers 36:3 24:11,12,20 37:8 43:8 pleader 26:3,5
5:22 7:22 Oh 4:15 14:15 panoply 58:4 45:20 46:7 17:4 26:19
14:16,22 26:16 46:15 paragraph 27:1 47:25 51:2 58:11
16:2,11 okay 29:23 50:20,21 51:4 percent 56:7,7 please 3:10 18:4
49:24 paragraphs perfectly 12:18 27:16
27:17 old 53:11 47:4 51:4 24:21 29:3,15 point 10:24
56:13,22 once 4:10 39:15 parallel 32:24 58:21 49:17,18 51:8
51:10 44:17 perform 21:13 52:14
53:3 49:22 part 6:23 13:14 12:18 16:15 25:19 45:24
37:4 52:12,12 36:15,16,22,24 protections quote 24:22
58:16 preserved 47:20 36:24,25 37:2 38:19 27:19,20,21
22:21 pretrial 26:4 52:24,25 32:20 34:1
33:13 pretty 22:21 problemo 15:19 41:17 R
49:15 problems 6:5 proved 36:2 R 3:1
preventing proceeded 56:20 provision 15:5 30:11,14 37:5
20:4 23:6 process 9:21 19:13 55:9 range 10:10,17
37:5 39:13,15 20:21 PS 47:15 rate 52:2,2
34:23 43:18,18 45:12 43:7 40:18 44:20 reach 32:19
45:19,21 46:1 profits 34:16 45:12 48:11 read 8:21
32:16 prices 12:17 prohibit 38:19 publicly 32:12 ready 22:15
56:18 16:17 29:10 prohibited purchase 30:4 real 5:22 19:25
58:19 30:6,11,15 24:24 33:3 purchasers really 9:15
22:14 39:3,21 41:23 40:6 41:25 pure 12:4 31:12,25 35:18
22:17 42:14 44:19 43:19 51:13,14 10:18 58:7 54:3,7
47:10 17:8 57:19 reasonable
primary 8:20 19:12 38:22 qualitative reasoning 28:1
11:21 31:3,6 proof 47:8 46:3 recognized
52:24 53:16,20 56:3 6:1 11:15 12:5 reconcile 18:11
private 6:19,20 proposal 41:6 35:19 44:21,22 red 19:1
37:16 38:1 prosecuting 51:19 55:3 redundancy
52:9,18 57:25 prosecution 17:20 43:11 reenacted 47:18
52:12,13,16 restraint 6:20 53:14 57:17 SEC 3:19,22 4:5
51:5 38:5 restraints 4:24 rulings 54:9,9 5:15,18 6:1
render 15:18 25:1 8:16,20 9:3,17
replead 7:2 result 29:10 safeguards 58:4 12:14 13:2
reply 57:13 53:11 satisfactory 19:4 22:22
6:24 11:20 rid 44:23 satisfies 44:22 24:23 28:8
21:19 repugnancy rigging 46:25 saved 47:17 37:15 38:15,18
18:14 require 3:12 11:25 12:11 savings 8:14 45:19 46:4
15:10 32:8 34:13,14 34:18 38:20,20 29:13,14 36:25 53:21 54:5,8
33:7 47:5,6,9 41:13 45:5 40:7 51:9 54:12 55:7,8,9
55:19 required 4:7 49:3 53:18 54:13 55:12 56:17
24:8 requirements 52:16 15:16,20 26:1 58:21
42:22 58:6 ring 28:11 28:18 30:10 second 17:12
11:23 reserve 17:21 road 50:24 47:19 49:16,16 secondary 24:19
16:3 resolve 53:6 ROBERTS 3:3 49:22 50:25 section 30:9
resolved 52:22 9:22 17:22 51:4 46:8,8 52:7,15
27:7 resort 48:10 22:7 27:10 Scalia 4:12 7:25 securities 1:3
resorting 47:14 33:4 34:3,8 8:3,6 11:21 3:4,19 5:14
25:1 respects 31:23 54:21 58:23 29:13,22 38:14 27:22,23 30:1
23:10 Robinson-Pat... 39:9 40:7,13 33:21 35:17
responsibility rulemaking 6:9 scheme 11:4,16 43:19 45:9
17:23 54:23,25 sounds 37:14 stepping 42:20 39:7 44:23
51:14 55:2,16,17 SOUTER 7:5,12 Stevens 4:22 5:3 53:17,18
52:5,10 56:9,12 58:24 7:17,19,21 5:11 9:6 12:7 suitor 21:1
54:17 58:25 46:24 52:23 12:19,24 13:10 suits 20:23 21:6
shares 4:2 46:6 speak 14:8 13:16,18 19:8 22:5 57:25
12:10 show 43:1 45:18 24:5 37:25 stick 17:14 supervising
33:7 41:6 51:5 47:25 stock 28:16,25 48:13
51:20 showing 27:20 specifically 4:12 29:5 30:7 supervision 3:22
54:13 shows 50:24 7:6 24:8,9 33:16 34:24 14:17 55:19
Shumway 33:17 speech 50:14 36:7,14 37:1,4 supervisory
19:17 similar 56:13 sprawling 26:1 39:15 46:10 supplement
22:25 simply 6:25 spread 35:16 58:3,13 38:19,22
29:2 43:22 spreads 35:21 stocks 36:2 support 43:20
49:9 single 20:12 35:23 36:3 46:11 43:21,21
38:16 39:11 standard 4:19 stopped 47:14 22:3 23:1
41:14,21 58:5 16:13,22 23:19 stretching 58:7 supposed 12:4
situation 21:7 43:14,15 49:15 strike 20:23 46:1 52:19
58:6 situations 14:12 standards 4:8 stringent 47:15 13:11
Solicitor 1:20 20:15 28:5,6 58:3 46:20 49:23
50:3 solution 21:3 state 4:13 7:10 submit 3:14 syndicate 18:20
3:6,7,9 sorry 29:20 36:9 54:25 48:21 51:5,12
5:5 40:5 44:1,1 States 1:1,15,22 sudden 36:22
6:3,23 7:9 46:15 2:6 18:1,5 53:4 sue 39:4,5 52:10 T
8:2,5,8 sort 5:22 7:2 statute 7:6 19:10 52:19,20 T 2:1,1
9:14,22 21:23 22:13 statutory 54:1 sufficient 11:20 tactic 58:11
11:7 26:18 27:6 stay 28:5 52:4 21:14 take 4:7 6:2 10:9
12:14 32:3 42:20 staying 28:7 suggestion 33:5 10:18 12:2
13:1,11 57:3,8 step 6:13 33:24 42:21 22:21 45:17
sorts 18:19 STEPHEN 1:18 Suisse 1:3,5 3:4 53:12
15:3,20 sought 24:24 2:3,10 3:7 suit 10:14 11:3 taken 13:7 54:6
16:10,25 sound 27:3 54:25 21:21 32:23 talent 48:10
23:9,12 20:10,13,14 trading 28:16 understand usual 33:24 53:5
30:17 21:13 22:14,17 transaction 38:15 45:13 53:5
49:15 23:10,21 25:2 16:18 34:18 53:15 usually 53:6
25:3,7,17 42:17 understanding U.S.C 52:8
46:16 48:16 12:16 32:13 40:15 vacate 25:22
36:21 thinking 28:24 38:6 47:13 31:19,22 32:7 27:2 30:21
43:13 trees 42:20 32:20 34:5,10 various 20:4
thought 6:20 Trinko 4:6 8:13 36:1,18 40:12 31:24
25:2 threat 21:15,16 28:11 41:8 underwriting vertical 4:24 9:9
three 15:6 55:9 55:22 3:24,25 18:12 24:4,10,24
55:15,17 Three-week trust 42:16 18:15,20 19:2 32:2,10
56:14 try 18:11 28:18 20:20 39:25 view 31:5,7
thrown 29:17 trying 14:19 undue 25:2 11:17 51:20
55:2 tie-in 5:19 34:15 21:16 24:15 unexercised violate 13:20,22
39:21 42:1 27:24 33:12,21 15:12 15:23 27:7
tie-ins 5:1,21 7:3 Tuesday 1:12 52:1 violates 14:2
19:5,12 57:24 two 7:12 14:15 54:19 9:13 12:22
32:4 42:16 51:5,11 48:6 55:18 10:13,15,15 violations 7:3
53:1,11 54:14 Twombley 19:5,10 32:24 31:9
16:2 times 22:8 53:3 tying 5:5 47:9,11 50:12 voluminous
25:18 tire 36:8 type 30:5 34:14 50:22 15:13
40:2 today 9:25 16:12 42:17 44:10 unreasonable vulnerability
50:22 totally 28:13 45:17,17 13:24 55:5 51:7
32:5 37:17 types 39:18 56:2 vulnerable 41:7
10:11 touch 48:4 U 30:6 37:7
11:10 toughest 58:20 Uh-huh 40:16 unusual 44:17 W
13:12 tour 34:23 ultimately 29:17 urge 17:14 waived 17:13
16:9 tracks 14:23 uncertain 21:2 urged 10:3 want 20:16 21:9
trade 13:15,25 uncovered 48:1 USA 1:4 26:9 30:9,25
45:20,21
52:9,10 widespread York 1:24 33:14 50 56:7
54:5 54:15 53 50:20
43:2 win 16:13,23,25 05-1157 1:8 3:4 579 50:7
54:1 witnesses 11:13
53:25 wondered 8:21 1 24:2 6 25:19
33:6 41:14,20 45:25 46:18 733 24:12,20
53:1 47:2 75 4:16
36:2 9
57:5 30:11 32:24
2:7 46:8 9(e) 52:7
36:20 37:5
96 4:16
30:5 982 30:9 39:2
39:2 46:8
19:20 52:18
23:11,23 world 9:12 1990s 47:12
29:18 19:25 40:3 1997 35:16
34:12 worried 23:4 39:24
40:2 41:16 2
42:24 worth 36:7
35:17
49:8 44:25
57:11 wouldn't 19:15
1:12
20:1
33:20 35:6
38:12
1:12 2:9
33:6,22 38:10 30s 30:6
56:24 48:1 33 3:15 7:7 15:4
58:14,18
32:17 4 47:4
34:12 Y
11:1
45:12 Yeah 13:17 40:7
27:1
52:4 53:9 40:25
50:7
53:7,8 41:11,12 42:23 5
