IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
LISA WATSON, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 05-1284
PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES, INC., :
ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, April 25, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:18 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioners.
IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Petitioners.
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioners 19
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:18 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in case 05-1284, Watson versus Philip Morris
Companies.
Mr. Frederick.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FREDERICK: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
The Eighth Circuit held that Philip Morris
is subject to such specific and detailed regulations by
the Federal Trade Commission that it is entitled to
remove this purely State law case from State court to
Federal court under the Federal officer removal statute.
That holding is erroneous and should be reversed for at
least three reasons.
First, the court articulated the wrong test
for determining when a person is acting under a Federal
officer.
Second, the court misunderstood the Federal
Trade Commission's regulatory regime with respect to the
marketing of so-called light cigarettes.
And third, the court's approach ignores the
long history and purposes of the federal officer removal
provision to protect the Federal Government operations
from interference by State court proceedings.
In this case, and in this Court, Philip
Morris largely abandons the Eighth Circuit's rationale
and offers an alternate ground of affirmance. It should
be rejected. The FTC has not delegated authority to
conduct testing to Philip Morris, and the complaint in
any event challenges only the company's marketing and
not its testing of so-called light cigarettes.
Now with respect to the first point, the
Eighth Circuit applied and articulated the wrong test
for determining when a person is acting under a federal
officer. The proper test, as this Court's case in the
City of Greenwood versus Peacock Casey elucidates, is
when the person is aiding or acting on behalf of the
Federal officer in a subordinate role in the officer's
discharge of official functions. That is not what is
happening here.
What is happening here is that the Federal
Trade Commission for a time conducted testing on the tar
and nicotine levels of cigarettes and stopped doing so.
Philip Morris asserts that that sequence of events
caused, in effect, a delegation of this authority. But
what is really happening is that Philip Morris --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do they cite any particular
document or statement --
MR. FREDERICK: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that constitutes the
delegation?
MR. FREDERICK: No. There is nothing,
Justice Scalia. There is no regulation, this is no
order, there is no policy statement, there is no
statement by the chairman of the FTC before Congress.
There is nothing.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's perfectly
all right for them to adopt a new method of testing tar
and nicotine that yields numbers that are far lower than
the Government's method, and to publish an ad saying
these are our tar and nicotine figures, and the FTC
would have no problem with that?
MR. FREDERICK: Mr. Chief Justice, the
answer to your question is no. And the reason is that
what the FTC did at the time was, it determined that
this particular Cambridge filter method was the
preferred method for ascertaining the level of tar and
nicotine in cigarettes. And in the D.C. Circuit
opinion of Federal --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not just the
preferred method, but presumably the only one they would
allow. If you used another one, they would bring a
deceptive trade practices action very quickly.
MR. FREDERICK: That is correct. But what
was clear in the Brown & Williamson case decided by the
D.C. Circuit, a panel of Judges Bork, Scalia and
Edwards --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They still might
have gotten it right.
(Laughter.)
MR. FREDERICK: They most assuredly did get
it right, Mr. Chief Justice. What they held was that
that method, the Cambridge filter method, had not been
done according to rulemaking, a trade regulation rule;
and that, therefore, there might be a testing mechanism
that would be different and better, but that with
respect to undertaking the deception analysis, which is
what the FTC is charged by -- with doing under Section 5
of the Federal Trade Commission -- Federal Trade Act, it
had to determine whether or not there would be some
method that the cigarette makers were attempting to use
that would be deceptive; and what the court in the D.C.
Circuit held was that there was no other method that had
been determined at that time. There had been no
statement or proposed rule made by the FTC, and so for
purposes of determining deception, that was the best
that could be done, while leaving open the possibility
that the FTC would promulgate the appropriate --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I understand
you have a dispute about whether that is this case, but
there are many areas where the Government requires
testing of products. You know, the strength of seat
belts and stuff, and they specify very precise means to
which those tests have to be conducted.
And if someone, a manufacturer is complying
with those requirements, and a challenge is brought,
saying something to the effect that that test doesn't
give you a good measure or something, in that situation
would this removal provision apply?
MR. FREDERICK: No. Because that's merely
compliance with rule and not aiding or acting on behalf
of the Government officer in a subordinate relationship
in the discharge of function.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the
Government says you've got to test your cars, you know,
every three months or something, and you've got to send
us the results of a random -- random test?
MR. FREDERICK: The reporting of results
doesn't change the hypothetical. That's also compliance
with the law, and that happens all the time in the
Government. The Department of Labor, the Department of
Commerce, the Federal Reserve, all of those agencies
routinely require reporting on the part of industry.
But the reporting of information does not
transform a regulated entity into a Federal officer for
purposes of these cases. And the court's cases are
highly instructive in this regard. Beginning with the
act of 1815 that began the Federal officer removal, the
court's cases have held that when a person is deemed to
be acting under, the person is acting in a subordinate
relationship to the Federal officer, merely complying
with the law does not transform a regulated entity into
someone subordinate to the officer.
And that subordinate relationship is what is
critical to understanding when in other contexts someone
might have a better claim to being a person acting under
a Federal officer than Philip Morris can assert in this
case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That is -- this is
certainly not your revenue officer needing help from a
citizen or the Federal agent going to close down a still
during Prohibition. But what about the Government
contractor cases that are cited, the Agent Orange was
one example?
MR. FREDERICK: The Government contractor
cases present a quite distinct set of issues that, of
course, is not present in this case because there is no
contract between the Federal Trade Commission and Philip
Morris. But I think that the proper way of looking at
Government contractors is to look at contextually what
is the nature of the contract? Does the contract
provide for ongoing supervision by the Federal officer
and give the Federal officer the power to change or
alter the conduct of the contracting party? Otherwise,
mere specifications, detailed as they might be,
constitute simply compliance with the terms of the
contract rather than a subordinate relationship.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do all these contracting
cases involve the contractor imposing law upon somebody,
executing law? On behalf of the Government?
MR. FREDERICK: In a couple --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because that's your test.
I mean, and if that is the proper test, it ought to
apply in the Government contractor situation, too.
So, for example, the Government can hire a
private company run prisons; but that would be the
Government hiring somebody to perform Government --
Government functions. Now, do all of those -- a
function that remain as Government function, keeping the
incarcerated incarcerated. Now do, do all of the
contract cases involve that?
MR. FREDERICK: No. I think and that's why
it would be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --
MR. FREDERICK: -- a mistake for the Court
to either categorically say all Government contractors
are in or all Government contractors are out.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that puts a whole new
theory on your --
MR. FREDERICK: No, it doesn't.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh.
MR. FREDERICK: Because my theory is that
the person acting under has to be aiding or acting on
behalf of a Federal officer in a subordinate
relationship in the performance of the officer's
official functions. And in the case of some Government
contractors, like the chauffeur in Maryland versus
Soper, for instance, who was an employee of the Reliable
Transfer Company, he was hired by the Maryland Director
of Prohibition to serve with the agents when they went
out doing their investigations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And he was acting under
color of law as you've described that in your petitions?
I don't think so.
MR. FREDERICK: That's a different question,
Justice Scalia. The question of under color of office
as the statute defines it depends on the nature of the
acts and whether there is a causal relationship between
the acts that are charged by the State in the State case
and the actions of the people involved.
In the Soper case, the problem wasn't the
color of office, because the chauffeur was out with the
four agents, and when there was a death that they
stumbled upon, the question arose what were the nature
of the facts, not whether the chauffeur was acting under
color of office. That would be a distinct inquiry not
related specifically to whether a person is acting
under, but that's the third part of this question.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I, I it seems to me
color of office, you say color of office, it means that
its appearance to somebody else is that -- that he is
being an official. And I would think that that requires
the fact that he's assisting a Government agent in
enforcing the law against somebody.
MR. FREDERICK: And in the Medicare context
this happens. Blue Cross-Blue Shield, hired out by the
Government to pursuant to a very detailed contract to
engage in intermediary payments, and audits, forming
Government functions. I think that is a paradigmatic
instance where the Government consists -- and has
ongoing supervisory relationship and a control over the
conduct as it is implementing the Government's function.
The Government employment example, like
Soper, where the chauffeur is hired and brought into
work with the agents, they're having a ongoing
supervisory relationship, telling him where to drive,
what to do, where to go. They are able to alter his
conduct in the same way.
In many procurement instances, that is not
true.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How, how do you
distinguish your Blue Cross example from the instance
where drug companies are doing testing required by the
FDA?
MR. FREDERICK: That's compliance with the
regulation. There are all sorts of instances,
Justice Kennedy, where industry is required to do
certain things before they can bring their product to
market. That's not acting --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Blue Cross is different
because there they are acting as an intermediary of the
Government?
MR. FREDERICK: They are performing a
function at the Government's direction for the
Government. The Government used to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that doesn't
seem to be a distinction. The drug companies -- the
Government wants to make sure that drugs are safe and
effective and so they issue regulations saying here's
how you have to test it. They're just, you could say,
delegating the testing to the companies.
MR. FREDERICK: No. Compliance doesn't
constitute a delegation, Mr. Chief Justice. And the
reason is quite clear from the fact that the Code of
Federal Regulations is full of all sorts of very
specific instructions to industry actors. But when they
comply with those rules they are not acting on behalf of
the Government. They are simply fulfilling a legal
obligation that all Americans have to fulfill when
confronted with a question of Federal law.
The situation for acting under is different,
and in the Medicaid context, there's a very special
bureaucracy that has been created under the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to perform Government
functions that used to be performed that are now
contracted out to Blue Cross-Blue Shield, and I
acknowledge that that is a very different kind of
situation.
But the Government, of course, in a
multi-trillion-dollar budget purchases all sorts of
items all the time. Many of them are off the shelf.
And others are subject to very specific and detailed
specifications.
But the compliance by a contractor with
specific and detailed instructions would not itself
transform that entity into a person acting under a
Federal officer.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There's a difference
between you are providing products and complying with
testing. In other words, and if, in fact, the
Government specifies precisely how the testing is
supposed to be done to determine whether it, the
Government, will approve the marketing of a particular
drug, and the challenge, the litigation is to the
testing. Somebody sues as drugs company and says you
know, you tested this drug wrong, we think you should
have tested it some other way, and the drug company says
the Government told us how to test it -- why in that
situation aren't they acting under a Government
official?
MR. FREDERICK: Because it would be
transforming a preemption defense into an opportunity to
use a Federal officer removal to have a case from State
court to Federal court. This Court has said many times
that preemption is an issue that can be decided by State
courts, and the mere fact that someone is complying with
detailed Federal regulations, and therefore is able to
claim the cause of action is preempted as a result of
those Federal regulations, does not transform the person
into a person acting under a Federal officer.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just out of curiosity,
what, what happens to the, the employees of the private
companies that run prisons? Could they removed under
this provision?
MR. FREDERICK: It depends on the nature of
the contract, Justice Scalia. The things that the Court
would look at would depend --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They either run the prison
for a State, or for the Federal Government.
MR. FREDERICK: What the Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- or the Federal
Government.
MR. FREDERICK: What the Court would look at
is whether there is a ongoing supervisory relationship
and whether the Federal officer has the power to
transform or alter the conduct. If those circumstances
are met, then there would be a very strong argument that
the person is acting under the Federal officer.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the prison case,
there's not any if about it. A State, municipality, has
a contract with a private entrepreneur to run a prison.
One question that I think must have come up
in that context comes under the 1983 action in --
against a, a prison guard, a privately hired prison
guard.
MR. FREDERICK: Of course, this Court has
held that in that context there is not State action in
that particular circumstance. In fact, in the Third
Circuit, Philip Morris defended its actions against a
very similar claim regarding its marketing, that it was
not a State actor for purposes of a Bivens action or a
Section 1983 claim.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that the test here? Is
that the test here? If it is State action, it is
covered by this statute. If it isn't, it is not?
MR. FREDERICK: There -- that would
certainly be a simple way to determine whether a person
is acting under a Federal officer, if it meets the
entwinement test articulated by this Court in that case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But suppose it doesn't.
MR. FREDERICK: If it doesn't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Should I conclude it
therefore is not covered?
MR. FREDERICK: No, I think that the proper
standard, Justice Scalia, as I've said, is whether there
is a ongoing supervisory relationship and the Government
has the power to alter the actor's conduct. If those
two conditions are met then a person can be said to be
acting under the Federal officer within the meaning of
this statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't follow that. The
Government is always altering people's conduct when it
regulates them.
MR. FREDERICK: But not on a basis that is I
think appropriate to understand a subordinate
relationship. The fact that there is alteration through
Government regulation is simply compliance with law.
But to be acting under within the meaning of this
Court's cases -- and I would direct the Court to the
Greenwood case, which the other side basically
ignores -- in that case, in footnotes 17 and 20, this
Court made clear that the phrase "acting under" is
acting in that kind of subordinate relationship in the
execution of laws. Compliance is insufficient.
Otherwise, it would blow the whole statute apart.
Everybody in a regulated industry would able to remove
under the Federal officer statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Has it been done? I
mean, this is -- I don't recall any case like this. Are
there other product liability cases that are removed
from State court to Federal Court on a similar basis?
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Ginsburg, in our
cert papers, and we didn't repeat them in our merits
papers, we give examples where a window blinds
manufacturer, a medical device manufacturer, a whole
series of others, a bank, a credit union, have attempted
-- after the Eighth Circuit's decision in this case have
removed cases to Federal court on the grounds that they
are Federal officers because they are subjected to far
more extensive regulations than Philip Morris.
In fact, if you turn to volume 16 of the
Code of Federal Regulations and turn to part 408,
there's a heading, and it says Deceptive Unfair
Advertising of Cigarettes For Health Benefits. Then
underneath it it says "intentionally left blank." And
the argument that these other entities have made is
there are no Federal regulations concerning the
marketing of "light" cigarettes but there are
regulations concerning our products. So therefore, we
must be a Federal officer because the regime governing
us is far more specific and detailed than it is for
cigarettes.
If I could reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Frederick.
Mr. Gornstein.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF IRVING L. GORNSTEIN,
ON BEHALF OF UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING PETITIONERS
MR. GORNSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court.
Manufacturers of cars, drugs, medical
devices, pesticides, home appliances and numerous other
consumer good market their products in accordance with
detailed and specific Federal Government regulation.
If that in a colorable preemption defense
were sufficient to trigger removal, then it would create
the potential for a very major shift of traditional
State law litigation from State to Federal court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do they test their products
before they're marketed under rigid Federal testing
regulations which are supervised by the Federal
Government?
MR. GORNSTEIN: Let me talk about -- there
are, there are numerous testing requirements. The
automobile industry has to test for fuel efficiency; it
has to test for crash testing under very specific
requirements. The home appliances have to be tested for
energy efficiency under Federal requirements --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is the Government
supervising those?
MR. GORNSTEIN: Is -- the Government often
says exactly what the test has to be.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah, but is there some
Government official who's there to make sure that the
testing is being done the way, the way it's supposed to
be, which is what, what is argued is the case here?
MR. GORNSTEIN: Well, I -- I -- I can't say
in every case that somebody is there to make sure --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They don't have to be there
every day.
MR. GORNSTEIN: But -- the Government is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Policing --
MR. GORNSTEIN: Policing and enforcing the
testing requirements, and there's testing in all these
areas. The other thing to say is that there's no --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's -- what's
your conclusion? That those are not people acting under
Federal officers --
MR. GORNSTEIN: They are not people acting,
because if they --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because policing
sounds like --
MR. GORNSTEIN: The Government's policing is
enforcing the law. People who are, who are regulating
their products in accordance with detailed and specific
Federal Government regulation are acting on their own
behalf in marketing the products in -- on -- in
compliance with Federal law.
They are not acting under Federal officers
-- within the meaning of the Federal -- within the
meaning of this statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about -- what
about USDA food inspection? Isn't a lot of that
delegated to the producers rather than the Government
officials?
MR. GORNSTEIN: The Government --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you still get a
Government stamp.
MR. GORNSTEIN: You can have different
situations. And I'm not sure about the precise one
you're talking about. But you can have situations and
the FAA is one, where the FAA has a statute which says
you can delegate to third parties inspecting aircrafts,
and the Agency certifies through regulation that this
person is inspecting as a representative of the FAA.
Now that's a varied situation. In that kind of
situation the person would acting under. But if the
person is simply complying with Federal requirements
about how to test, that is private behavior, acting on
their own behalf, in order to further the marketing of
their products.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if you are a
federally certified inspector you are acting under --
MR. GORNSTEIN: Certified as a
representative of the FAA, yes, you are.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about private
transportation of mail? Is the private contractor who's
carrying U.S. mail, is that person -- could he remove a
case under this provision.
MR. GORNSTEIN: The standard for contracts
is some contracts are in and some contracts are out in
our minds, depending on whether the -- they are subject
to the guidance, supervision, or control of federal
officers. And so if they are performing a service on
behalf of the federal government and they are subject to
control or supervision, then they could be acting under
federal officers.
Now the situation here, the test that the
court of appeals used, simply acting in conformity with
detailed and specific Federal regulation, is one that
would lead, as I said, to a very substantial change in
where State court claims have been litigated up until
now.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I have a contract to
provides food to the Senate cafeteria, okay. And the
Senate or maybe the Executive Branch, for that matter,
closely supervises my preparation and service of that
food. Am I acting under, even though I'm not assisting
the Government in any governmental function at all?
Don't you have to be assisting in the performance of a
governmental function?
MR. GORNSTEIN: But the problem with that,
what you're saying, is the 1948 statute expanded it all
Federal officers. So if Federal officers were running
that cafeteria, those Federal officers could remove
because they are performing a duty under Federal law to
provide that service to Federal employees.
Now, once the statute expanded out in 1948
to cover Federal officers who perform any function, not
just enforcement functions, it carried with it persons
who act under Federal officers in performing those very
same functions. So if the Federal Government hired an
employee to serve food who was acting under a Federal
officer who was responsible for the delivery of food,
that person would be acting under a Federal officer
within the meaning of this statute, assuming that the
person was subject to the control, guidance, and
oversight in the delivery of that food.
Now, this case is very far from the
historical examples of citizens being called upon by
customs officers to assist in the enforcement of the
revenue laws or the chauffeur who was, under a Federal
employment contract, who then -- assisted revenue
officers in carrying out a raid on a distillery, or the
military corporal who was involved in assisting Federal
officers in making an arrest.
Those are the historical examples. They
point to the principle that you are talking about people
who are in a subordinate position and who are acting on
behalf of or otherwise assisting Federal officers in
carrying out their duties.
As for the alternative ground for affirmance
here, that is that there has been a delegation, testing
delegation of authority, there has been no delegation of
authority. It is unusual for the Government to delegate
out its own regulatory responsibilities to the very
industry it is regulating and it didn't do that here.
What the Government did is that it had at one time its
own testing program. It eliminated that testing program
altogether, which had not been required by statute but
was simply the result of a commission vote. And after
that, the industry continued to carry on the very
testing that it had been doing all along as a result of
an agreement among industry participants. Now, even if
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't care what
kind of testing they do? They can change the method and
change the way to resolve --
MR. GORNSTEIN: Actually, the Federal Trade
Commission cannot require the particular testing method.
But even if you assume it could, Mr. Chief Justice, that
would simply be a regulatory condition on the marketing
of a product. And acting in accordance with a
regulatory condition on the marketing of a product is
not acting under a Federal officer, for the reasons I've
discussed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Gornstein, was there
any Government litigation against the cigarette
companies?
MR. GORNSTEIN: There has been Government
litigation against the cigarette companies for
allegations that are very similar to the complaint in
this case except that it is being brought under the RICO
statute. That litigation is pending in the D.C. Circuit
and the basic allegation, one of the allegations of the
complaint, is that the cigarette companies have falsely
marketed their products as being lest dangerous than
other products when, in fact, they are not.
Now, the final point to be made is, even if
there was a delegation of authority here, it would not
affect the disposition of this case because this
complaint does not challenge the testing itself.
What this complaint says is that these --
that the Respondent here engaged in deceptive
advertising by essentially designing cigarettes that
would cheat the test and then marketing the cigarettes
as light when in fact they are not.
If the Court has no further questions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Gornstein.
Mr. Olson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The heart of this lawsuit is that official
FTC tar and nicotine ratings generated by testing
performed by Respondents under the FTC's supervision and
transmitted to the public in Respondent's advertising at
the FTC's insistence is misleading; therefore, the
creation and transmission of the allegedly misleading
data for which Respondents are being sued were acts
performed by Respondents to assist the FTC in performing
its official responsibilities.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Did the FTC ever adopt a
regulation saying you've got publish these measurements?
MR. OLSON: No. The FTC did not do it
through a regulation. If the Court were to look at
pages 93 to 110 of the Joint Appendix, you would see
testimony by the Chairman of the FTC and the head of the
consumer protection part of the FTC saying: We chose
not to do it by regulation because we found that it was
much more efficient, much more fast, and much for
effective to force the tobacco companies into what is
called a voluntary agreement requiring precisely that
information.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But if one of the companies
had said, we're sick of doing this, we don't like the
numbers we're getting, whatever, we're just not going to
do it, presumably if we, you know, accept that testimony
at face value, the FTC would have moved and said, okay,
I guess we're going to have to have a reg or a statute
or what-not. During that period of time, the company
wouldn't be committing any offense?
MR. OLSON: Yes, it would. In a 1978
advisory opinion, which is found on pages 202 of the
joint appendix, the FTC stated categorically -- and the
joint appendix, by the way, Justice Souter, is full of
exactly what I'm talking about. The FTC said tar values
in cigarette advertising must be consistent with the
latest FTC number and stated that it would be deceptive
to advertise higher numbers or lower numbers or
different numbers. In other words, the enforcement
wouldn't be through the enactment of a regulation. The
FTC -- again, I refer to the testimony of the Chairman
of the FTC: The FTC does things this way because --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What is this -- I'm just
not following it. What is the source of the so-called
"FTC number" to which advertising must conform?
MR. OLSON: The source of the FTC number is
the FTC test, alternatively called the Cambridge filter
test.
JUSTICE SOUTER: The Cambridge test, yes.
MR. OLSON: But the FTC calls it the FTC
test. It was devised by the FTC. It has a specific set
of requirements. The FTC itself performed that test for
a number of years. Then in 1987 the test was
transmitted -- the FTC stopped doing it and allowed the
industry to do it itself because the -- again, in that
same testimony by the Chairman of the Commission, he
said that: It will be more effective and easier for us,
and we can use our funds for other purposes if the
industry does it.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I understand that. But if
the -- if a given cigarette manufacturer simply said,
we're not going to give any numbers, we're simply going
to say "Smoke Marlboros," and the FTC wanted numbers and
they wanted the numbers in accordance with the Cambridge
testing method, they would then have had to regulate,
adopt a regulation, or get Congress to pass a statute.
MR. OLSON: It's fairly -- what happened,
it's fairly clear from what the FTC has said, they would
bring an action for deceptive advertising if there was
anything involved in the marketing of those cigarettes
that had to do with tar and nicotine levels.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. Now, in my hypo they
just say: Look, we're just going to say "Smoke
Marlboros." We're not going to say the nicotine is low
or anything. The FTC would not at that point have any
basis to charge a violation?
MR. OLSON: No, they wouldn't. But that is
not of course this case. This case involves --
JUSTICE SOUTER: All I'm getting at is the
FTC had no basis other than a voluntary agreement to
require them to publish any numbers or to publish any
numbers in accordance with the Cambridge --
MR. OLSON: The history of that is set forth
in the record and it's clear.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Right.
MR. OLSON: And the answer is that the FTC
announced a proposed rule. It then sent a letter to the
tobacco companies saying, it would be much easier for us
and much easier for you to enter into a voluntary
agreement. It gave them 30 days to come up with a
voluntary agreement. They produced an agreement which
the FTC rejected because it allowed certain flexibility
with respect to the testing and didn't adhere
specifically to the FTC test that you're referring to.
It rejected that first agreement. The
tobacco companies came back with another agreement. The
FTC accepted that agreement and said that it would
enforce the voluntary agreement against the tobacco
companies and if they deviated from it they'd return to
the rulemaking process.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Again, you're talking
about an agency that has set certain standards that the
entity its regulating must meet. They must meet all
kinds of requirements for certain kinds of tests by
OSHA, say, for example. Think of pesticides, think of
hazardous substance -- quite precise tests that the
Government says you must make this test before you
market that dangerous product.
I don't see how cigarettes are any different
from hazardous wastes, pesticides, just the vast number
of potentially dangerous to health products that are
marketed and the Government says: We're not going to
let you put those things out on the market unless you go
through a certain testing regimen. That doesn't make
the party an agent of the Government for the testing
purposes.
MR. OLSON: Let me see if I can answer that
question, Justice Ginsburg. This is not merely
compliance with the rule. This is not merely testing of
products. The FTC created the standard. It created the
testing mechanism. It performed the tests according to
very detailed criteria. Those tests are now performed
by the industry for the FTC. Those test results must be
reported to the FTC. The FTC then reports those results
to Congress and publishes them in the Federal Register
as the official FTC tobacco ratings, and then the FTC
requires --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They are called FTC
ratings?
MR. OLSON: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And they are called -- in
the regulations it's called the FTC test, even after it
has been done by the companies?
MR. OLSON: Yes, yes, Justice Scalia. And
in the case that you --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's very careless, isn't
it?
MR. OLSON: It's not careless. They are
pronouncing the facts.
And in a case that you participated in in
the D.C. Circuit, the brief in that case, the Brown and
Williamson case that was mentioned before Justice Bork
wrote the opinion, in that brief I counted -- I stopped
counting about 10 or 12 times after the words "the FTC
test methodology," the "FTC official ratings," the FTC
this, the FTC that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there must be many
times when an agency prescribes a test that a regulated
party must comply with. It's still a relationship of a
regulator, the FTC, sets standards that the regulated
party has to meet. I just don't see -- it could be
called "the FTC test," but it's a test for what? Are
you complying with the law when you're manufacturing and
marketing this product?
MR. OLSON: Let me try again,
Justice Ginsburg. If the FTC had said to four local
hospitals, please perform this test according to this
specification for us, the FTC, and then give us these
results, which we will then publish as the FTC official
ratings of cigarettes, and then if those hospitals were
sued because the testing and the results were alleged to
be misleading, I think even the government would admit
that that case could be removed under the Federal
officer removal statute. There is nothing --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What if in your hypo the
Government came along and said, in order to run your
hospital, you've got to disclose certain facts.
Otherwise we're going to shut it down. And those facts
from that point on are like your hypo. Would your
conclusion then follow, that they were acting under?
MR. OLSON: No. It would be a vastly
different situation.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why isn't that the
situation that we've got here?
MR. OLSON: The difference, the difference
is, is that, A, the test is, is -- the FTC and the
record is full of this, too; the FTC set a goal for
itself very early in the regulatory process. It wanted
consumers to purchase lower tar and nicotine cigarettes.
Now how was it going to accomplish that, the FTC goal?
It devised this test. It made it official FTC test.
Official FTC ratings. What this is doing is
conscripting in a way or accepting here's what the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that,
Mr. Olson, that the cigarette companies wanted to make a
light brand so that they could keep customers who might
be tempted to quit if there was only the heavy kind.
But to say that, the light cigarettes were forced on the
cigarette companies by the FTC certainly --
MR. OLSON: Well, in, in 29 -- this is in
the record. The FTC set forth goals, it's 29 Federal
Register 530, in -- on January 22, 1964, that the FTC
described its goal as to encourage the development of
less hazardous cigarettes. That was done in conjunction
with a earlier or a contemporaneous -- nearly
contemporaneous Surgeon General report which is reported
at joint appendix pages 57 to 60, that the Government
had as its goal the responsible promotion of cigarettes
low in tar and nicotine. Now I'm not saying --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, any product that
the Government supervises, certainly the Government
would want to promote a safer -- I mean, think of a jet
ski. Think of -- products are marketed because people
want them, and off course the Government as supervisor
will want to encourage a safer product. But let me ask
you a different question, Mr. Olson.
The removal area has been really closely
guarded by Congress. You know it's not easy to get a
case out of State court and move it to the Federal
court. In fact, Congress has said if the Federal court
shifts it back, no matter how wrong a that decision was,
it stays in the State court.
One can't remove -- you may have a wonderful
Federal defense, a preemption defense. You can't remove
on that basis. You may have a counterclaim, so you're
really the same as a plaintiff. You can't remove on the
basis of a counterclaim.
Well, Congress has been so careful to let
the State courts do State tort litigation. Then we are
supposed to read into a Federal officer removal statute,
that kind of, the removal of a State tort case from
State court to Federal court? Because that's quite the
fashion.
MR. OLSON: The Government says that the
test is -- is, that if an individual, private actor, is
assisting the Federal Government in performing the
official Government function, the case is appropriate to
be removed. That is what the Government says section
1441(a)(1) means. This Court has said that section
shall be liberally construed, not narrow or limited in
its construction, and not frustrated by a narrow,
grudging interpretation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is this right? If I have
it -- I'm using sort of a silly example to explain it to
myself. But I'm thinking the FDA -- or no, the
Agriculture Department decides they're really interested
in red apples not being red. So they say we hire
thousands of apple lookers, and the apple lookers look
at all the apples and they devise a redness test which
is really fabulous, you know, very precise.
MR. OLSON: The apple lookers' device?
JUSTICE BREYER: No. The FDA. The FDA has
the apple looking redness test, and the apple lookers
apply the test. And if you pass the test, you can say
red apple, and if you don't pass the test you don't.
Now I'll give you two different things that happen. One
day because of budget cuts the FDA hires a lipstick
company to look, because they're experts on redness;
they know how to perform a test.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: The other possibility is
they say to the apple companies, you do your own
looking. Now I think there'd be the difference that
you're trying to argue, and I don't think it cuts or
you. Because in the first case, what they've done is
hire somebody to perform a governmental function. In
the second case, what they've done is to the people who
are regulated and have the interest, in announcing they
have red apples, they've said, you do it yourself.
MR. OLSON: Ah, but Justice Breyer, what
happens here is they say you do it yourself, and the
Chairman of the -- Chairman of the FTC said why. Here's
why; he said it's better undertaken by private
researchers. It's a mechanism that we can rely on to
ensure accurate reporting.
Then, what the FTC did is to supervise the
performance of the test. It goes into the laboratories.
It makes sure it has done it its way. And then it
accepts those results --
JUSTICE BREYER: That wouldn't be relevant,
because the -- the problem with the, with the approach
that you're taking, as I see it, would be that, that
there are probably a lot of instances where a regulated
firm, the regulation meaning yes/no, market/not market;
yes/no, advertise/not advertise, performs all kinds of
tests to see if it is yes or no.
And if you're going to start taking that
kind of firm and breaking it apart to say whether it's
doing the testing part or some other part, you're really
opening the gates.
MR. OLSON: But we're -- we're not. We're
suggesting -- you're -- what you're doing in your
question and your statement is to disaggregate the
pieces of the process here. Here it is the FTC's goal,
it's FTC's method; it's the FTC's test which is
supervised but done by the companies. And then it
becomes the FTC official ratings which they then must
transmit to the company in their advertising. And now
they're sued because those ratings that they've done
according, for the FTC, according to the FTC standards,
are alleged to be misleading.
So it's -- it's not possible to disaggregate
it. It is a whole spectrum; the testing itself and the
reporting -- is done by the industry because the
FTC wants it as its official numbers, and it wants its
official numbers given to the consumers. And it is
setting an advisory opinion, even if you tell them that
your cigarettes have higher tar or lower tar, if you
don't report our numbers, you will be sued for deceptive
advertising.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So what you are
saying is that this function is so separable and it is
so much a FTC function and it is so much like delegating
it to the third party that did nothing of the testing,
that even if you delegate it to the second party which
does testing and then benefits from the testing, that's
still not enough to take it out.
MR. OLSON: What I was saying in answer --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that -- have I got that
right?
MR. OLSON: I think so. Let me restate it,
because I think I understand what you've said.
And I think what I was trying to say with
respect to Justice Ginsburg's question, if the -- all
those private hospitals did it, I think the Government
would admit, the Federal -- and then is there an
exception in the statute? If the regulated entity, in
this case the tobacco company, does it rather than the
hospital? And there's nothing in the statute that says
that.
JUSTICE BREYER: No. But I -- so, so to use
my silly example, I mean, it is like the lipstick
company. You're saying, well if they did it to the
lipstick company it would be clearly that they're the
Government agent. And it is so technical, so
governmental, so heavily involved with the Government
for testing, that even though you give it to the apple
growers themselves, they are still Government agents
when they perform it.
MR. OLSON: The Agency decided they are any
--
JUSTICE BREYER: I, I see the argument now.
MR. OLSON: Yeah.
JUSTICE BREYER: Then is there any, any
authority ever, that you found for that?
(Laughter.)
MR. OLSON: This is, as the Eighth Circuit
said, a very unusual situation. But the closest
analogies are, are to the Government contractor cases.
And by the way, it doesn't require a contract to be
acting under the supervision. I heard the Government
say that what you had to have is someone supervised by
the Government with the Government's power to alter the
actor's conduct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well there's one
different. If you're doing it for the Government, the
Government says we want Agent Orange; we know it's a
very dangerous substance. So they give you an order;
we're going to make very precise specifications. But
you're doing it for us. We, the Government, want that,
and so we are going to put tight controls on your
manufacturing it for us.
A little was different from a commercial
company going out to sell market goods to the public at
large?
MR. OLSON: Justice, I understand there's a
distinction. Because the Government is the actual
consumer of that product. But here the Government
announced that its goals were to accomplish a market in
lower tar cigarettes. And it said with respect to the
testing, it's better undertaken by private researchers.
So it was fulfilling the Government's desire to have
something they could save the money, if they close down
the laboratory, they said in this testimony, we'll use
the money for enforcement pumps against the cigarette
company. We can regulate and determine, fulfill the
official functions of the Government more effectively,
more efficiently if we do it this way.
So it is the Government's objective. It is
the Government's results they are seeking to obtain.
And they've conscripted voluntarily the industry to do
the thing for it and then it calls it its official
results.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Have, have they imposed its
official -- has it imposed, the FTC, its official
results on any company that was not a participant in
this -- in this testing lab?
MR. OLSON: I don't know the answer to that.
I think the answer is no. I think that what, what the
FTC was able to accomplish at that time was to get every
-- the major players in the marketplace with respect to
participation in this. I don't know --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Your case would be stronger
if they weren't doing it just for themselves. If in
fact that they were doing it for the FTC who imposed it
even on somebody else.
MR. OLSON: That's the private hospital
example that we were talking about.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah.
MR. OLSON: I don't know that it would be
stronger. Why would it be weaker --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because here you're doing
it for yourself. You want to advertise low -- low --
low tar cases. And the FTC says the only way we'll let
you do it, the only way we'll let do you that
advertising is if you test them pursuant to this, this
system that we established.
And you say okay. We'll test them pursuant
to the system you've established and -- and everybody
goes happily away.
MR. OLSON: Well, that happens to be --
there happens to be a coincidence of what the Government
wants to accomplish and what the industry is willing to
and wants to accomplish. I'll accept that. So does
that mean there's an exception to the Federal officer
removal statute, if the person who is asked to help the
Government, does help the Government, is sued because
his actions in helping the Government occasioned someone
to bring a law suit?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Olson , you've
been talking a lot about testing. But when you look at
the complaint in this case, testing is a small part of
it. They're complaining about the modification of the
tobacco blend, the weight, rod length, the
circumference, use of reconstituted tobacco sheets. In
other words there's a lot going on here in the complaint
here besides the testing. And if the Government is in
no way specifying the tobacco blend, the weight, the
length, all these other things that are allegedly part
of the manipulation to affect the figures.
MR. OLSON: Well, in the first place if
there's anything in the complaint that allows a removal
then the case can be removed. That's the Exxon versus
Allapattah case that the Court decided just a couple of
terms ago. But secondly, let me address directly what
you are saying.
Throughout the complaint, in the complaint
itself, I found references to the testing machine or
method eight times in the complaint. They say -- they
complain about representations that cigarettes contain
less tar and nicotine than regular cigarettes. They
base that on the test results. They then say as
measured by the industry standard testing apparatus.
And let me refer to what the Petitioners
said in their motion to remand to the State court. They
complained -- they said the basis of this complaint is
misleading low tar and nicotine ratings as measured by
the company's testing procedures. That's in the
Petitioners' motion to remand. Furthermore, the
district court interpreted the complaint precisely the
way we are explaining this to the Court today. The
district court said that over and over again, words of
the district court at page 42a of the petition appendix,
the court concludes that the FTC's regulation of the
cigarette companies' testing and advertising cuts to the
heart of the plaintiff's lawsuit.
Well, the heart of the plaintiff's lawsuit
is testing and advertising. The testing is required by
the FTC. The results of the testings are the FTC's
numbers. And the advertising contains the FTC's numbers
because the FTC requires it. The circuit court
interpreted --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the company is doing
it so it can stay in business and market this product,
not as a service to the U.S. Government.
MR. OLSON: I don't deny that the -- the
Respondents in this case are engaged in industry. A
regulated industry by the FTC. And that's correct,
Justice Ginsburg.
I don't think there's an exception. And the
Government hasn't suggested there's an exception in the
Federal officer removal statute because someone happens
to be in the industry which is asked to help the
Government perform a particular function. There is no
logic to that, and it certainly would be not a liberal
interpretation of the Federal officer removal statute.
The circuit court also said the very -- and
I think this is worth noting, at page 15a of the
appendix to the cert petition, the very combination the
plaintiff challenges as deceptive is the same
combination the FTC requires not to be -- to put in your
advertising in order not to be deceptive.
So what is required by the FTC of the
plaintiffs, the advertising of these test -- official
test results -- is precisely what the Petitioners say,
and the Petitioners say is deceptive. That's the basis
for their lawsuit.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well that's a good, that's
a good preemption argument.
MR. OLSON: If the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure it has much
bearing upon whether --
MR. OLSON: Well, it is a good preemption
argument, Justice Scalia. That will be played out
either in the State court, depending upon how you rule,
or the Federal court. But it's -- that's the nexus and
the color of Federal authority that you talked about in
your dissenting opinion in that Acker case.
The Court in the Acker case, Jefferson
County versus Acker, said that the allegations in the
petition and in the removal petition must be -- and
especially since they weren't challenged in this case,
the factual allegations and the characterization of the
complaint were not challenged in this case -- must be
accepted as true by this Court. And Chief Justice
Roberts, it's not only the allegations in the complaint
and the characterization in the removal petition, but
it's what the district court decided the complaint said.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I know all that's involved
here is the forum and removal; but if we were to rule
for you that there' is Federal officer status here,
would that effect any of the substantive determinations
on the preemption question, etcetera?
MR. OLSON: No, I don't think so. I think
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's just a forum
question?
MR. OLSON: Yes, it is. And this is an
appropriate case for evaluation of the conduct of the
person acting --
JUSTICE BREYER: I have a quick question.
Is there anything in the complaint that alleges you
didn't perform the tests properly?
MR. OLSON: Yes. Yes. There is. But as I
said, that is not -- I mean, the part of the complaint,
as the district court saw it and the circuit court saw
it, is much more than that. It's the testing and so on
and so forth. And I don't think it would make any
difference because even if there's an allegation, which
there is in the complaint, that the test was manipulated
or gained or circumvented, it goes back to whether it's
a good test or not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't understand
your response to Justice Kennedy. If we determine that
you're acting under the direction of a Federal officer,
that would seem to me highly pertinent on the merits of
a preemption argument. So it would not be just the
forum, but kind of getting into the preemption merits.
MR. OLSON: Well, it may perhaps be. But
what, it's an interpretation of the statute. I don't
think there's any doubt about that anyway, Chief Justice
Roberts, because it's clear that what was being done
here is something that the FTC wanted done in the way
the FTC wanted it done. I don't know how the -- I
believe that the preemption argument is very, very
strong, because the lawsuit, the substance, the guts,
the core, the heart of the lawsuit, as the district
court said and the Eighth Circuit said is, you're doing
what the FTC required you to do, and the plaintiffs say
that it's deceptive.
And by the way, it's very clear from the
record in the joint appendix and in the district court
decision and in the remand in the motion -- the motion
to -- the petition to remove, that the FTC knew exactly
the deficiencies that are alleged in the complaint.
The FTC has been aware of the fact that
people smoke differently, that cigarette -- the design
of a cigarette may affect the outcome of the test. But
what the FTC, knowing that full well, said, well, people
might smoke things differently and you might get more
tar and nicotine than the FTC ratings produce. And the
FTC with full awareness said, we understand all that,
but what we want is for the consumers to have an ability
to compare this cigarette with this cigarette, and we
have devised a test that will allow you to compare an
apple to an apple. Now there are other things that will
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: It all comes back to me
now, that case you mentioned. Lip drape, that was the
lip drape case, wasn't it, where people smoke
differently because some of them cover up the holes in
the filter when their lips -- the lip drape. The naked
lip drape.
MR. OLSON: That is the case. I don't know
if you've charactered it the same way I did, but the
apples to apples thing is tied in with your
hypothetical, Justice Breyer, about the apple
inspectors.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is it the apple institute
who's doing the testing?
MR. OLSON: It's the Tobacco Institute
testing facility --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I said apple institute.
You know, that seemed to me to be the case where it was
the apple institute or whatever it was that was the
delegate, and then they applied the test, and the people
they were applying the test to weren't.
MR. OLSON: It's a facility of the tobacco
industry. The FTC perceives it as -- these industries
-- and these companies, and as I said, even the
petitioners in their remand petition are challenging the
low tar and nicotine rate measured by the company's
testing procedures. So yes, I'd like to have it be
something different but it isn't something different.
It is what the companies have done, and through this
mechanism.
This case comes down to the fact that the
FTC wanted certain things done. It decided how certain
things would be done. It calls the results of those the
official FTC ratings. It wants those ratings delivered
to the people. And the tobacco companies have done that
and they're being sued because they say -- because that
information which they're delivering, that they're
creating and delivering at the request of the
Government, is alleged to be deceptive. This is the
perfect case for a removal under the federal officer
removal statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Olson.
Mr. Frederick, two minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FREDERICK: If this is a perfect case
for Federal officer removal, there are easily 40,000
others in the State courts waiting to he removed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, how many others
involve the agency calling the result of the private
action the FTC figures and the FTC test?
MR. FREDERICK: I don't know the answer to
that, but I can tell you that in lots and lots of areas,
the Federal Government wants safer, cleaner cars, safer
refrigerators --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they don't -- they
don't put it out to the public as the Federal
Government's figures.
MR. FREDERICK: They do --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That makes a big
difference.
MR. FREDERICK: It does not make a
difference. And the reason it doesn't make a difference
is if you look on your refrigerator, if you look on your
lawn mower, if you look on your automobile, there are
Government standard tests that have to be complied with
for an industry to be able to sell its products. And if
Philip Morris is correct here, you are going to be
announcing a dramatic transformation of the role of
Federal and State courts, because every time there is
even a colorable argument for preemption, the industry
will take the case to Federal court saying we're acting
under the Federal officer, and therefore, don't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just don't call it the
Government's test. Don't call it the Government's
figures. Call it the industry's figures.
MR. FREDERICK: The description shouldn't
make a difference, particularly where it is in a
voluntary agreement that was not put out for notice and
comment rulemaking, and it was done for precisely this
reason, Justice Scalia. For decades, the cigarette
companies were rightly perceived as deceiving the public
about the health content of their products.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now the FTC told us
why they did it. They did it because they could save
the money by having the industry do it rather than them
doing it.
MR. FREDERICK: They also said, Mr. Chief
Justice, that they expected the companies to police each
other, which is exactly what happened when the Barclay
cigarette came up. Philip Morris was the one that
complained and said that cigarette doesn't comply, it's
been manipulating the FTC Cambridge filter method. So
the FTC found a cheaper way to do regulation.
Compliance with rules does not transform an entity into
a Federal officer. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:17 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
41:19 ad 5:13 allegation 25:20 1:15 assist 24:1 26:23
address 43:14 47:8 appendix 27:4 Assistant 1:18
52:20 admit 33:1 39:5 25:17,20 46:4 44:7 45:8 48:6 assisting 11:17
26:25 29:5 alleged 32:25 36:7,9,16 35:15
37:14 42:7 allegedly 26:21 49:6,8,12,14 assuming 23:21
40:23 18:13 26:5,19 allowed 28:18 19:22 audits 11:22
42:17,18 27:25 28:9 30:6 applied 4:11 authority 4:6,23
advisory 27:21 40:7 applying 49:16 19:20 51:10
affect 26:1 43:9 altering 17:6 37:10 awareness 48:16
7:14 8:8,8 affirmance 4:5 alternative 17:9 35:16
24:12 46:23 B
10:12,12
11:9,11 agencies 7:25 alternatively approve 14:12 B 1:22 2:10
13:11 agency 21:19 28:11 April 1:10 26:12
14:5,18 30:16 32:12 altogether 24:20 area 34:21 back 30:10
16:17 39:19 50:20 Americans areas 7:4 20:15 34:25 47:10
agent 8:19,21 13:13 50:23 48:22
21:1 11:17 31:4 amicus 1:20 2:7 argue 36:18 balance 18:22
39:14 40:11 19:2 argued 20:6 bank 18:5
agents 10:19 analogies 40:3 argument 1:13 Barclay 52:10
11:7 12:4 analysis 6:15 2:2,5,9,12 3:3 base 43:21
25:8,10 39:17 announced 30:1 3:7 15:21 basic 25:20
40:5 ago 43:14 40:23 18:15 19:1 basically 17:14
47:14 agreement announcing 26:12 39:21 basis 17:8,25
24:24 27:10 36:22 51:14 45:18,23 47:16 29:15,19 35:4
30:9,10,11,12 29:25 31:6 51:16 45:15
50:21 51:24 38:22 41:17,18 arose 11:8 bearing 45:21
42:22 35:25 anyway 47:20 articulated 3:18 Beginning 8:5
aiding 4:15 7:14 37:17 ascertaining 1:22 2:4,7,11
9:13 23:10 categorically 25:1,6 26:9,14 47:21 48:5
13:11 call 51:19,20,21 10:4 27:22 42:24 46:9 clearly 39:13
21:2,25 called 23:25 causal 11:2 47:12,20 50:12 close 8:19 41:2
24:10 27:10 28:11 cause 15:2 52:4,8,17 closely 23:2
50:15 31:17,20,21 caused 4:23 chose 27:6 34:21
Cambridge 5:19 50:2 41:4 44:9 color 10:22,25
40:25 care 25:1 45:4 cigarettes 3:23 colorable 19:10
13:20 cars 7:18 19:6 challenged 46:6 circuit 3:11 4:11 Commerce 7:25
15:23 16:18 change 7:22 9:6 Circuit's 4:4 28:20
38:15,23 17:14,15,23 22:21 25:2,3 18:6 Commission's
18:6 20:6,8 charactered circumference 3:22
49:6,8 22:9 23:24 49:4 43:4 committing
25:18 26:1 characterizati... circumstance 27:19
42:23 34:23 35:10,16 charged 6:16 15:20 13:5 15:7
25:18 41:22 43:1,12 chauffeur 10:16 47:10 27:9,12 30:2
48:23,24 49:3 cheaper 52:14 citizen 8:19 36:16 37:25
50:16 51:17 Chief 3:3,9 5:10 City 4:14 50:5 52:2,9
50:14 40:3 42:8 20:16,21 21:7 clear 6:3 13:8 39:13 40:18
49:21 34:22,24 35:7 controls 40:15 31:9,9 defense 14:21
34:8 corporal 24:5 creation 26:21 deficiencies 48:9
52:12 conscripting Counsel 52:17 critical 8:13 24:15 38:19
consistent 27:25 counterclaim Cross-Blue delegated 4:6
26:2 constitute 9:9 counting 32:8 curiae 1:20 2:8 delegating 13:5
43:1,5,11 13:7 County 46:4 19:2 38:17
constitutes 5:3 couple 9:14 curiosity 15:5 delegation 4:23
46:8,10 construction 43:13 customers 33:25 5:4 13:7 24:13
47:1,4,9 35:20 course 8:25 customs 24:1 24:14,14 25:25
construed 35:19 13:23 16:5 cuts 36:11,18 delivered 50:4
9:9 12:14 27:6 40:22 court 1:1,13 50:8
14:3 consumers 3:10,14,15,18 D delivery 23:19
21:3 33:18 38:10 3:21 4:2,3 6:20 D 3:1 23:23
52:15 48:17 10:3 14:23,23 dangerous deny 44:20
52:12 contemporane... 17:13,16,25,25 data 26:22 35:25
14:8,25 content 52:3 22:19,22 26:8 2:13 3:7 50:14 depending
32:17 context 11:19 26:15 27:3 day 20:10 36:11 22:12 45:24
contexts 8:13 35:1,11,11,18 death 11:7 15:9
33:9 9:10,24 11:21 46:3,9,12 47:5 6:24 51:22
15:20 13:20 35:8 50:18 38:13 45:9,11 detailed 3:12 9:8
40:8 contracting 9:7 51:15 45:15 48:4 11:21 14:1,4
9:11 court's 3:24 50:9 15:1 18:20
8:23 9:12,17 17:13 14:24 39:19 22:20 31:11
10:4,5,16 covered 16:14 decides 35:25 determine 6:18
22:11,11 crash 19:21 34:25 48:7 41:5 47:13
48:1,6 48:2 event 4:8 fast 27:8
4:12 6:24 doing 4:21 6:16 15:12 45:24 everybody 35:24 36:6,6
24:23 27:13 24:19 exactly 20:2 federal 3:13,15
48:19 doubt 47:20 employment 39:11 42:2 10:13 13:9,14
36:17 drape 48:23,24 enactment 28:4 23:25 24:7 15:1,3,4,13,15
51:6,8,8 49:1,2 encourage 34:7 exception 39:6 15:19,22 16:17
drive 12:5 34:19 42:19 44:24,25 17:3,21,25
12:19 14:13,15,16 enforce 30:12 execution 17:18 18:19 19:9,13
21:14 drugs 13:2 enforcement Executive 23:1 19:15,16,23
30:23 14:14 19:6 23:15 24:1 expanded 23:8 20:18 21:1,3,4
34:20 duties 24:11 28:3 41:4 23:13 21:5,23 22:13
40:10,17 duty 23:11 enforcing 11:18 expected 52:9 22:15,17,20
D.C 1:9,16,19 20:13,24 experts 36:12 23:9,9,10,11
6:20 25:19 engaged 26:4 explaining 44:5 23:18,20 24:2
E enter 30:3 33:2 34:5,23
38:6 easier 28:21 14:5 30:17 fabulous 36:4 45:25 46:1,15
easily 50:17 entrepreneur facility 49:11,17 50:24 51:2,15
efficiency 19:20 essentially 26:5 33:6,7 52:13
efficient 27:8 42:11,13 fairly 29:6,7 firm 37:13,17
eight 43:18 etcetera 46:17 far 5:12 18:8,20 30:9 36:19
47:5 4:11 18:6 40:1 46:23 fashion 35:12 flexibility 30:6
45:10,12 47:22 Ginsburg's 39:3 21:11,13 22:15 hazardous 30:20
FTC's 26:18,20 38:10 35:13,15,16,17 52:3
44:8,13,14 goal 33:16,19 40:3,5,7,10,11 heard 40:5
43:17 fulfill 13:13 41:5 goals 34:5 40:23 41:6 42:16,21 44:10,11 48:1
fulfilling 13:12 goes 37:6 42:14 42:21,22 43:6 heavily 39:15
3:6,7,9 33:16 48:13,16 27:17 29:1,1 governmental 6:21 8:7 16:6
6:2,9 function 7:16 29:12,13 31:1 23:4,6 36:20 help 8:18 42:20
8:23 9:22,22 12:1 33:7,19 37:16 39:15 42:21 45:2
10:3,8 12:23 23:4,6 40:13,15,18 Government's helping 42:22
11:19 23:14 35:16 43:5 51:13 5:13 12:1,23 higher 28:2
13:6 36:20 38:16,17 good 7:11 19:8 20:23 40:7 38:12
15:9,14 45:3 45:17,18,22 41:1,8,9 51:3 highly 8:5 47:15
16:5,15 functions 4:17 47:11 51:20,20 hire 9:18 36:1
17:8 9:21 10:15 goods 40:18 Greenwood 36:20
50:13 11:23 13:19 Gornstein 1:18 4:14 17:14 hired 10:18
23:15,17 41:6 2:6 18:25 19:1 ground 4:5 11:20 12:3
52:8 funds 28:22 19:4,18 20:1,7 24:12 16:3 23:17
6:16,23 Furthermore 22:10 23:7 grudging 35:21 historical 23:25
26:17,23 44:3 25:4,12,15 guard 16:3,4 24:7
27:2,5,6 26:10 guarded 34:22 history 3:25
G gotten 6:7 guess 27:17 29:22
G 3:1 governing 18:19 guidance 22:13 holding 3:16
gained 47:10 government 4:1 23:22 holes 48:25
29:2 gates 37:19 7:4,15,18,24 guts 47:25 home 19:7,22
General 1:19 8:20,23 9:3,13 hospital 33:6
31:9 34:10 9:17,18,20,20 H 39:8 42:1
generated 26:17 9:21,22 10:4,5 happen 36:10 hospitals 32:21
getting 27:14 10:15 11:17,21 happened 29:6 32:24 39:4
29:18 47:17 11:23,24 12:2 52:10 Human 13:18
Ginsburg 8:17 12:21,24,24 happening 4:18 hypo 29:11 33:4
15:23 17:5,22 13:2,12,18,23 4:19,24 33:8
34:3,5,6 18:1 25:12 14:10,12,17,18 happens 7:23 hypothetical
38:1,4,4 30:15 31:7 15:13,16 16:25 11:20 15:6 7:22 49:6
11:22 12:20 29:11,18,24 37:6 logic 45:4
35:21 45:5 31:20,23,25 large 40:19 look 9:3 15:11
interpreted 44:4 33:4,12,23 latest 28:1 29:12 36:2,12
10:20 37:9 38:15,23 law 3:14 7:23 lookers 36:2,2,5
13:10 24:5 29:9 42:24 44:17,23 19:13 20:24 lot 21:8 37:12
19:20 39:15 46:13 45:17,20,23 21:3 23:11 42:25 43:5
involves 29:17 46:9,13,20,25 32:17 42:23 lots 50:23,23
31:12 IRVING 1:18 47:12,13,20 lawn 51:10 low 29:13 34:13
41:10 2:6 19:1 48:22 49:6,8 laws 17:18 24:2 42:7,7,8 44:1
43:22 issue 13:3 14:24 49:12 50:12,19lawsuit 26:16 49:21
45:2 issues 8:24 51:1,5,19 52:1 44:10,11 45:16 lower 5:12 28:2
51:12,16 items 13:25 52:4,9,17 47:25 48:1 33:18 38:12
lead 22:21 40:24
50:7 Jefferson 46:3 keeping 9:22 legal 13:12 machine 43:17
Judges 6:4 kind 13:21 level 5:20 makers 6:19
12:11 8:17 9:11,15 kinds 30:18,18 light 3:23 4:9 52:13
37:12 11:13 12:10,16 knew 48:8 33:25 34:2 43:9
14:7 15:5,10 14:15 27:15 lip 48:23,24 49:1 7:8 18:4,4
14:4 16:12,19,21,24 40:11 41:17,21 lips 49:1 Manufacturers
19:24 20:3,9 50:22 LISA 1:3 32:17 40:16
21:7,12 22:2,6 litigation 14:13 19:8 30:22
25:1,6 L 19:13 25:13,16 31:2 37:13
31:1 met 15:21 17:2 nexus 45:25 24:1,4,6,10 oral 1:12 2:2,5,9
method 5:11,13 nicotine 4:21 officer's 4:16 3:7 19:1 26:12
14:12 16:9 6:11,11,19,21 26:17 29:10,13 official 4:17 40:11
21:2,25 25:2,5 29:4 33:18 34:13 10:15 11:16 order 5:7 21:25
26:6 37:24 43:18 43:20 44:1 14:19 20:4 33:5 40:12
32:18 52:13 48:15 49:21 26:16,24 31:15 45:11
32:9 noting 45:7 33:21 35:16 ought 9:16
minds 22:12 28:10,17 30:24 41:11,14,14 oversight 23:23
misleading 27:14 28:2,2,3 officials 21:10 P
38:5 44:1 38:9,10,13 okay 22:25 page 2:2 44:7
52:20 misunderstood numerous 19:7 42:12 pages 27:4,21
39:11 modification 26:11,12,14 panel 6:4
47:4 43:2 O 27:2,20 28:10 papers 18:2,3
23:21 52:6 objective 41:8 29:22,25 31:6 11:23
months 7:19 obligation 13:13 31:19,23 32:2 part 8:1 11:12
3:11 4:4,7,22 occasioned 33:24 34:4,20 37:18,18 43:1
49:21 51:13 52:11 offers 4:5 39:19,22 40:1 41:15
44:3 48:7,7 11:10,14,14 42:1,4,15,24 24:24
37:3 moved 27:16 3:25 4:13,16 45:19,22 46:18 32:4
mower 51:10 7:15 8:3,6,9,11 46:22 47:3,18 participation
municipality 15:4,19,22 once 23:13 5:19 14:12
N 25:10 33:3 15:18 16:25 51:23
narrow 35:19,20 47:14 50:10,17 operations 4:1 32:13,15 38:18
nearly 34:9 20:18 21:4 38:11 46:2 payments 11:22
50:15 46:17 47:16,17 51:12 52:3 10:24,25 11:8
34:17 petitions 10:22 47:24 51:16 program 24:19 11:12 13:14
48:11,13 Philip 1:6 3:4,11 preferred 5:20 24:19 16:1 31:7
49:15 4:3,7,22,24 5:24 Prohibition 8:20 34:20 37:22
8:15 9:1 16:8 preparation 10:19 39:3 46:17,21
23:14 45:9 prison 15:12,23 proper 4:13 9:2 30:20 35:11
36:13,20 plaintiffs 45:13 15:25 16:3,3 9:16 16:23
45:3 48:3 prisons 9:19 properly 47:2 R
plaintiff's 44:10 15:7 proposed 6:23 R 3:1
23:5 played 45:23 15:6,25 21:24 protect 4:1 random 7:20,20
players 41:20 22:6,7 35:14 protection 27:6 rate 49:21
26:18,23 26:15 32:21 40:25 42:1 23:12 31:15,18 32:9
31:10,11 point 4:10 24:8 50:20 provides 22:25 32:24 33:21
22:14 33:8 probably 37:12 provision 4:1 48:15 50:4,4
26:23 police 52:9 problem 5:15 7:12 15:8 22:9 rationale 4:4
policing 20:12 11:5 23:7 public 26:19 read 35:9
8:7,8,14 possibility 6:25 proceedings 4:2 27:1 29:20,20 reason 5:17 13:8
11:11 36:15 process 30:14 32:23 51:8 52:1
15:3,4,22 possible 38:6 33:17 37:23 publishes 31:14 reasons 3:17
17:2 potential 19:12 procurement pumps 41:4 25:10
potentially 12:8 purchase 33:18 REBUTTAL
23:20,22 30:25 produce 48:15 purchases 13:24 2:12 50:14
46:24 power 9:6 15:19 produced 30:5 purely 3:14 recall 17:23
21:15 30:20 30:22 32:18 pursuant 11:21 33:16 34:5
46:5,5,11 precisely 14:10 44:18 put 31:2 40:15 red 36:1,1,9,23
49:20 27:10 44:4 products 7:5 45:10 51:2,24 redness 36:3,7
2:4,8 preempted 15:2 19:8,14 20:25 p.m 52:19 refer 28:5 43:23
3:8 19:3 preemption 21:2 22:1 references 43:17
rely 37:3 11:16 31:16 18:23 20:16,21 19:14,24 20:3
remaining 50:13 requiring 27:10 25:1 26:9 31:17,20,23,25
7:12 8:6 14:22 resolve 25:3 role 4:16 51:14 51:19 52:1
42:20 43:11 39:3 40:24 7:14 30:1 31:8 36:21 38:19
50:17 26:4 6:12 30:14 section 6:16
32:12,14 17:20 22:8 1:23 2:11 rules 13:11 see 27:4 30:23
37:12 23:10 35:2,3,5 26:13,18,22,23 52:15 31:6 32:15
44:22 48:8 44:21 run 9:19 15:7,12 37:11,15 39:21
30:17 33:2 35:17 response 47:13 Senate 22:25
12:15 repeat 18:2 24:16 26:24 S 2:1 3:1 send 7:19
19:9 report 34:10 responsible safe 13:2 sent 30:1
22:20 38:13 23:19 34:12 safer 34:16,19 separable 38:16
28:4 reported 31:13 restate 38:25 50:24,24 sequence 4:22
37:13 34:10 result 15:2 save 41:2 52:5 series 18:5
52:14 reporting 7:21 24:21,23 50:20 saw 47:5,5 serve 10:19
15:1,3 reports 31:13 31:12,13 32:23 13:3 23:8 27:1 service 22:14
representations 32:25 37:8 27:6 30:2 23:2,12 44:19
31:21 43:19 41:9,12,15 34:13 38:16,22 Services 13:18
25:7,9 request 50:8 return 30:13 says 7:18 14:14 33:16 34:5
require 8:1 25:5 revenue 8:18 14:16 18:12,14 sets 32:14
required 12:12 reversed 3:16 26:3 30:21 sheets 43:4
8:9,12 48:3 29:24 35:22 42:8 13:20
10:14 requirements 38:15,24 Scalia 4:25 5:3,6 shift 19:12
12:5 7:9 19:19,22 rightly 52:2 6:4 9:11,15 shifts 34:25
16:25 19:23 20:14 rigid 19:15 10:2,6,9,21,25 shut 33:7
32:13 21:23 28:16 Roberts 3:3 5:10 11:13 15:5,10 sick 27:13
25:17 specifications stronger 41:22 2:8 19:3 37:24 42:10,12
21:23 specify 7:6 stumbled 11:8 20:5 35:9 48:19 49:15,16
24:21 specifying 43:7 subject 3:12 Supreme 1:1,13 50:21 51:20
28:25 spectrum 38:7 14:1 22:12,15 sure 13:2 20:4,8 tested 14:15,16
stamp 21:13 23:22 21:15 37:7 19:22
13:15,22 22:10 31:9 submitted 52:18 Surgeon 34:10 27:15 28:5,20
21:21,22 43:22 51:11 52:20 system 42:11,13 41:3
33:11,13 standards 30:16 subordinate testing 4:7,9,20
32:14 38:4 4:16 7:15 8:8 T 5:11 6:13 7:5
State 3:14,14 10:13 17:9,17 take 38:21 51:17 14:9,10,14
16:13 17:25 substantial 24:8 27:24 25:2,5 26:2,17
11:15,18 35:10,11 43:24 46:16 5:20 26:17 32:25 37:18
20:8 45:24 50:18 sued 26:22 27:24 29:10 38:7,18,20,20
41:25 51:15 32:25 38:3,13 33:18 34:13 39:16 40:25
12:3 28:1 sues 14:14 42:8 43:20 43:1,6,17,22
States 1:1,13,20 suggesting technical 39:14 49:22
28:7 16:14 17:4,19 supervised terms 9:9 43:14 37:15 47:2
29:11 17:21 21:6,17 19:16 37:25 test 3:18 4:11,13 51:11
33:4 23:8,13,21 40:6 7:10,18,20 Thank 3:9 18:23
24:20 25:19 supervises 23:2 9:15,16 13:4 26:9,14 50:12
28:8 33:3 35:9 39:6 supervising 16:18 19:14,20 THEODORE
14:1,4 50:11 22:13,16 26:18 26:6 28:11,12 theory 10:7,11
19:9,21 stay 44:18 40:5 28:13,15,16,17 they'd 30:13
22:20 stays 35:1 supervisor 30:8,21 31:12 thing 20:15
stopped 4:21 34:18 31:21 32:9,12 41:11 49:5
28:6 transformation values 27:24 weren't 41:23 15a 45:7
36:10 51:14 varied 21:21 46:6 49:16 16 18:10
48:14,20 transforming vast 30:24 we'll 3:3 41:3 17 17:15
14:21 vastly 33:10 42:8,9,12 1815 8:6
11:16,23 26:21 10:16 43:12 27:14,17 29:1 1948 23:8,13
16:1,23 transmit 38:2 46:4 29:1,12,13 1964 34:6
30:19,19 transmitted violation 29:15 31:1 33:7 1978 27:20
34:16,17 26:19 28:18 volume 18:10 37:20,20,20 1983 16:2,11
38:25 transportation voluntarily 40:13 51:17 1987 28:17
41:18 22:7 41:10 we've 33:13
44:24 trigger 19:11 voluntary 27:10what-not 27:18 2
46:18,18 true 12:9 46:9 29:19 30:3,5 Williamson 6:3 20 17:15
try 32:19 30:12 51:24 32:6 2007 1:10
21:18 turn 18:10,11 W wonderful 35:2 25 1:10
two 17:2 36:10 waiting 50:18 words 14:9 28:3 26 2:11
28:24 wants 13:2 38:9 wrong 3:18 4:11 4
7:23
40:20 38:9 42:17,18 40,000 50:17
18:22 14:15 34:25
48:16 50:4,24 408 18:11
27:18 wrote 32:7
51:15
43:18 undertaken wasn't 11:5 x 1:2,8
6:16
undertaking wastes 30:24
34:6
39:7 6:15 Watson 1:3 3:4 Yeah 20:3 39:22
57 34:11
49:10 Unfair 18:12 way 9:2 12:7
50:5 union 18:5 14:16 16:16 years 28:17 6
34:11
40:4 41:7 42:8 0
6:1,12,17 USDA 21:8 42:9 43:7 44:5 05-1284 1:5 3:4
9:1 25:4 use 6:19 14:22 47:22 48:5 1
32:8
41:3 43:4 weaker 42:5
1:14 3:2
27:4
14:5 15:3 weight 43:3,7
52:15 went 10:19
