IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED HAULERS :
ASSOCIATION, INC., ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 05-1345
ONEIDA-HERKIMER SOLID :
WASTE MANAGEMENT :
AUTHORITY, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
January 8, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:10 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
EVAN TAGER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioners.
MICHAEL J. CAHILL, ESQ., Holbrook, N.Y.; on behalf of
Respondents.
CAITLIN J. HALLIGAN, ESQ., Solicitor General, New York,
N.Y.; on behalf of New York, as amicus curiae,
supporting Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
EVAN TAGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL J. CAHILL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 26
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
CAITLIN J. HALLIGAN, ESQ.
On behalf of New York, as amicus
curiae, supporting Respondents 42
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
EVAN TAGER, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioners 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:10 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in United Haulers Association versus
Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Management Authority.
Mr. Tager.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EVAN TAGER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. TAGER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The barriers to interstate commerce imposed
by the flow control ordinances in this case are even
more severe than those resulting from the ordinance this
Court struck down in Carbone. As in Carbone, no local
waste can leave the counties for processing. In
addition, now that Respondent's landfill is up and
running no local waste can leave the counties for
disposal either. The issue here is whether Carbone is
inapplicable to this outright embargo merely because
Respondent's own the facilities to which the haulers are
required to bring the waste. The answer is no, and the
reason is that the concerns underlying the Commerce
Clause are implicated whether interstate commerce was
being obstructed for the benefit of a public enterprise
or a private one.
The whole point of the Commerce Clause was
to promote the national economy and to put an end to
parochial barriers to interstate trade. This Court has
consistently held that embargoes, local processing
requirements, and other barriers to interstate commerce
violate the Commerce Clause because such laws inevitably
prompt resentment, retaliation, and ultimately --
JUSTICE BREYER: I guess in many thousands
of municipalities throughout the United States it's
fairly common to have a locally owned electricity
distribution company, or an electrically -- or a gas
distribution company. And I thought it was fairly
common for a municipally owned pipeline, gas pipeline,
or electricity distribution to say, if you live in our
town you've got to buy from us; you've got to buy from
the local community. And I guess that's been going on
for about 110 years.
And yet I've never seen anybody think or
write or anything that that violated the Commerce
Clause. But of course, there could be somebody in
another State who'd like to sell electricity to the
people in our town. They can't do it because the town
says, we own the company and you got to buy from us.
Now, if we agree with you are we saying that
all those gas companies, distribution companies, et
cetera, are behaving unconstitutionally?
MR. TAGER: The first point of clarification
on that is the question -- the question is does strict
scrutiny apply.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm not interested in
tests. I'm interested in just the outcome. I just
raise the question.
MR. TAGER: Yes. I am not, I am not sure
that it's correct that in all of those municipalities
you hypothesize that they are actually pairing their
provision of local --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I used to teach the
subject and I can't say you're wrong. But I knew that
it was a fairly common thing to have a certification
that gave you a -- as a company, it would give them a
local area in which they had an exclusive monopoly. And
that was common and it was called a service area, and in
the local town, the service area, I never even heard of
a company trying to come in and sell from abroad,
because I thought that this certificate gave them an
exclusive right to provide the local electricity service
or the natural gas service. I mean, it's a fairly
obvious thing. And I might be wrong and I mention that
my memory -- I've never focused directly on it. Just
everybody I read and everything I read, I assumed the
constitutionality of this. But of course, memory is
fallible, including mine. Therefore, I raise the
question.
MR. TAGER: Well, if the utility is -- if
the utility is privately owned --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I'm not talking
about that because I guess that would be trying to
attack Carbone. Far be it from me.
But I know at least there are these things
called municipal gas utilities and municipal electricity
companies; and during the New Deal that was thought to
be quite a good thing, and that's years ago. In all
that time when people were attacking New Deal agencies,
I've never seen an attack based on this ground.
MR. TAGER: Well, I think that the same
logic would apply as in --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, I think it would.
The same logic would apply.
MR. TAGER: And it would apply to all of the
cases this Court has ever held. In every single case
involving an embargo or a local processing requirement
or a local needs requirement, if you just substitute "in
public ownership" you'd have the exact same case --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the fact is there is
a difference between public ownership and giving an
exclusive franchise to a public company. And the public
ownership means that the people of the State have
decided to have their own little nationalized industry,
which again people don't like, many. But I never knew
there was anything in the Constitution that forbid it.
MR. TAGER: Well, I think that the whole
point of the Commerce Clause was to stop these kind of
--
JUSTICE BREYER: Nationalized industries?
MR. TAGER: Well, to stop the idea that
everything can be localized.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you don't
even have to get into the theory. What happens in a lot
of municipalities of course is that they decide, well,
we're going to run the waste treatment facility and
we're going to tax the people in the municipality to
support it and the service is going to be free. Now, is
that a violation of the Commerce Clause?
MR. TAGER: If they're only providing it for
free and not barring you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. TAGER: -- from engaging in interstate
commerce, in the event, for example, that you found
there to be some additional benefit from engaging in an
interstate transaction, I think we would have -- the
Commerce Clause would be implicated. But as a practical
matter, they would be able to accomplish much the same
thing because most people would take the free service.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't understand.
You know, as far as the impact on out of State
competitors are concerned, it's exactly the same. The
State or the municipality runs its own waste disposal
facility. There is no charge for dumping the waste
there. The cost of it is entirely covered by taxes.
Okay.
Now, the people you're representing, out of
state people who would provide dumping grounds for this
waste, they would charge 9 dollars a ton or whatever
they would charge. It would be more than what the
municipality is charging.
Now, why isn't that a restraint on
interstate commerce, discrimination against interstate
commerce?
MR. TAGER: Well, it's market participation
if all they're doing is public collection and bringing
it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I'm sorry. You have to
dump your waste in the municipal garbage dump.
MR. TAGER: If you parrot the Flow Control
ordinance I think it's exactly the same.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay, so that's fair. Even
if they support it entirely by taxes?
MR. TAGER: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So that they're not
competing in the marketplace in any way, they're not
getting any money from the people who are dumping
garbage. They get money from the whole tax base.
MR. TAGER: The impact on the interstate
market is the same, and I think that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, it is indeed.
MR. TAGER: -- the Court's Commerce
Clause --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't think you'd be
willing to go that far, but you'd say that that violates
the Commerce Clause.
MR. TAGER: But I don't think I -- let me be
clear. We don't need to win that case in order to win
this case, because in this case --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm not so sure.
MR. TAGER: This case is almost on all fours
with Carbone. All you've done is transfer the
ownership. As you know, in Carbone that facility was
destined to be owned within less than 2 years from the
time the Court issued its opinion.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in the majority
opinion, as opposed to the dissent, at least as I read
it, on almost every page it uses words like "local
operator," "local enterprise," "local proprietor,"
"local business," doesn't speak, as the dissent did,
about a municipal facility. It seems great care was
taken in the majority to not characterize that transfer
pledge as a municipal facility.
MR. TAGER: Well, two responses to that,
Justice Ginsburg. First, there were other references
where the opinion said "the town's facility." Indeed,
the Flow Control witness himself referred to it as the
town's facility.
And the other response is, to call someone a
proprietor doesn't mean that they're private. In this
case, they're charging $81 -- or $86 a ton. Every ton
that comes in, they make more money.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm sorry. At least as I
read the Carbone opinion, it didn't deal with the
public-private distinction. It seemed to assume it was
a private entrepreneur. And it didn't take a position
one way or another whether there would be a distinction.
MR. TAGER: Well, I don't think the Court
affirmatively decided the issue. I think the
distinction didn't matter to the majority. I think the
majority is focusing on the consequences of putting up
barriers to interstate commerce, of putting up embargoes
and local processing requirements. And you could take
almost any one of the Court's cases and just substitute
in public ownership. Take, for example --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But not -- you know, you
have a whole string of commercial products, but you have
recognized, too, that garbage disposal has for long been
considered a municipal responsibility, a municipal
function.
And you also say that the total, the -- what
is it -- cradle to grave, if the county took over all of
the garbage disposal business, the hauling from the
garbage generator to the plant, and then there wouldn't
be any commerce problem, right? But if it does
something less, there is?
MR. TAGER: Well, there were two questions
embedded there. Let me see if I can take them in order.
The idea that it is a traditional local function, I
don't think can support any kind of meaningful test in
this case. The Court has rejected that very - that very
standard in Garcia and the Tenth Amendment cases, and
prior to that in the intergovernmental tax immunity
cases, and the reason it did so is it found that it was
unworkable to try to determine what is a traditional
government function in any particular case. The Court
found that it was in a total line-drawing morass. And
so it said we're throwing that out.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there is still at
least the obvious distinction, that one of the main
purposes of the dormant Commerce Clause is to prevent
protectionism. Protectionism is when a state favors its
own producers. And you could see, indeed a big argument
in Carbone was, you aren't favoring your own producer;
well, we are at least favoring one. But now where the
municipality is running it itself, no one is favored.
So I don't think it was an object of the
Commerce Clause to prevent a State from favoring its own
government.
MR. TAGER: I don't know whether the framers
considered it but I do know --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it's about --
MR. TAGER: -- protectionism wasn't the only
thing that they were concerned about.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, is there something
here that is not protection? Because Carbone was still
perhaps viewing it most favorably, an extreme case of
protection, only one individual was protected.
MR. TAGER: No. First of all, what was
being protected was this plan. The town had to fund its
transfer station, a transfer station that it was going
to take possession of less than two years after this
Court decided the case.
So the protectionism that was going on there
was really protection of their investment in their
scheme.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it was also
protectionism -- I mean, I didn't agree with this at the
time, but I mean there, it -- you have to admit that
there was protectionism of the one licensee, the person
who constructed the plant and was going to sell it to
the town for a dollar. That, so far as we know, that
person or that company was in it for the money.
And so for the period of the five years
prior to the transfer to the town for the dollar, that
particular entity was being protected so it could make
money, and therefore, make it worthwhile for that
company to sell its, its real estate to the town for a
dollar. Surely that entity was being protected
handsomely.
MR. TAGER: But it would be equally
protected, Your Honor, if the government owned the
facility but said you keep all the tipping fees until
it's paid off and take a nice profit on top, too.
This distinction --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, that's -- that's a
third case but that's not the question we have here, is
it?
MR. TAGER: Well, the case you have here is
are you going to adopt a new formalistic particular
distinction between public and private ownership, when
in the past this Court has concluded that a lot of these
other distinctions were unworkable.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, so, you say
formalistic as if it's a bad thing. But the, the
distinction, say in the First Amendment, if the private
contractor the day before the municipality bought the
facility for a dollar had fired an employee because of
his or her political views, you wouldn't argue that that
is state action just because the next day it was going
to be controlled by the public entity. And yet the next
day, that type of action would be subject to First
Amendment scrutiny. It may be a formalistic distinction
but in many areas of the law it makes all the
difference.
MR. TAGER: Well, I just think you are going
to be walking into so many line-drawing problems because
if that example is one, are you going to require 100
percent public ownership, or a majority interest, 50-50?
Once you go down this road, I think it is just opening
up a huge can of worms when the focus ought to be what
is the impact on interstate commerce? What we have here
now that the landfill is up and running is an absolute
embargo. No waste generated in this town, in these
counties, excuse me, can leave the State, period, end of
story.
It is no different, in effect, it is no less
likely to breed resentment and retaliation than --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It is kind of
formalistic on the other side because you, I thought you
agreed that if the municipality did it through tax
revenues and there was no formal flow restriction and
yet it only made sense to dump your waste at the free
facility, you seem to suggest that would be okay.
MR. TAGER: Well, I'm glad you reminded me
of that point. I meant to make it earlier. In West
Lynn Creamery this Court said that these kind of things
make a difference. There are certain ways you do things
and certain ways you can't do things. If you place an
embargo, that's traditionally been regarded as subject
to strict scrutiny. If you try to do the same thing by
making it free and providing public -- public -- public
collection, that's okay.
And -- and what the Court cases say is do it
the right way and we'll worry about the consequences
later.
JUSTICE BREYER: Here, I take it the reason
they want to do this is because they wanted their
municipal facility to charge a higher price for the
non-recyclable rubbish and that will encourage people to
segregate the rubbish and thereby have more cyclable --
recyclable rubbish, and therefore overall pay less.
And that's why they want to do it, and of
course that's not going to work. If somebody comes in
from out of State and charges a lower price for all of
the non-recyclable rubbish or you know, for all rubbish,
it just won't work. It is rather like electricity,
interestingly enough, where municipalities would do the
same thing. They want discriminatory rates in order to
push out the possibility of poorer people getting
electricity. This they want to do the same thing but
they want to do it for rubbish, for, to encourage
recycling.
MR. TAGER: Several answers to that,
Justice Breyer.
One, the same argument was made in Carbone.
It doesn't matter who owns the facility.
Two, this is an argument about why they
might survive strict scrutiny, it's not a -- I know you
don't like hearing about that -- but the question here
is do we apply strict scrutiny or not. And that goes to
the strength of their interest. And then of course the
question turns on, can it be met in nondiscriminatory
ways? The answer is "very well." Since Carbone was
decided, the municipalities have been living with no
flow control, virtually every one in the country, yet
recycling has gone up in the, in that intervening
period.
Indeed the best way to accomplish recycling
is to charge volume-based fees to, to the -- between the
haulers and the, and the generators. That's not what is
going on here. They're just charging it at the disposal
point. So there are plenty of communities all -- excuse
me -- plenty of communities all over the country that
are charging what's known as a batch fee where you pay
for each -- you pay -- you get a label, like you put on
a bag; you can't dispose of the bag without the label,
the label costs a certain amount of money. None of
these people have flow -- none of these communities have
flow control but there's a direct straightforward way.
They can also impose regulations directly on
the generators and directly on the haulers to make sure
they're doing these things. So it is hardly a reason
for creating a brand-new public-private distinction.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It sounds to me as though,
if we accept your argument that, going back to
Justice Breyer's first question, every municipal utility
in the United States is going to fall.
MR. TAGER: Well -- I'm not an expert on --
on that industry.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but you know, you know
that there are plenty of, of communities that don't have
municipal utilities and seem to get natural gas. They
seem to get electricity. The lights go on. And
therefore by parity of reasoning to what we have just
heard, there just wouldn't be the justification for,
let's say, embargoing the importation of electricity and
gas by private entities from outside.
So that if you win on this argument, no more
municipal lifelines.
MR. TAGER: I didn't hear the last part.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No more municipal
pipelines.
MR. TAGER: Well, I think they can have the
plant. They just -- assuming that is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, they'd like to run
them as --
MR. TAGER: They'd like to have a monopoly,
and --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- an exclusive monopoly,
and in that sense they won't, they won't be around
anymore because the Commerce Clause will, will declare
them unconstitutional.
MR. TAGER: Well, but that's excluding that
-- as I understand it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You would say that they can
do it so long as they charge less than out of State
people --
MR. TAGER: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and therefore people buy
their services because they're cheaper. So long as they
don't prohibit the importation, if they run the
municipal facility on tax revenues, and therefore charge
very little for the electricity or whatever they're
providing, that's perfectly okay for you. Right?
MR. TAGER: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So long as they don't
prohibit anybody from out of State.
MR. TAGER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then where does your
argument about formalism go? Isn't it a formalistic
distinction whether the utility does its financing
through or its collection through taxes, or through a
user fee?
You said, you said distinctions on -- I
thought you said distinctions like that were purely
formalistic --
MR. TAGER: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- for purposes of the
Commerce Clause, and therefore the distinction I suppose
wouldn't count.
MR. TAGER: Well, I think what I was talking
about, the public-private distinction, it is different
in kind from saying there are certain kinds of conduct,
some kinds of Government conduct that are permissible
like a subsidy, for example, take your South-Central
Timber versus Wunnicke case. The Court said in that
opinion you can't impose contractually on the people who
buy the timber the obligation to process it in the
State; but what you can do is you can subsidize it, so
they can't want to do it. So this is something that has
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: There's some, then I guess
you are saying some formalistic distinctions, some
distinctions that don't make any difference economically
but are formalistically different are okay.
MR. TAGER: Well, I'm not sure that one is
completely formalistic. The Court said there, that
gives people a choice. They can still take it out of
the State if they want to, and they may have good reason
to.
Going back to the trash argument, the trash
example, you could provide it for free; but a consumer
might say, you know what, I'd like to have more days of
pickup than you're providing me. Or I think their
trucks of this private company are a lot nicer; I'd
rather have a van stopping in front of my house than
your beaten up municipal truck. So a case like Wunnicke
establishes that that's the way it works. That it's
okay to have alternatives. What you can't have is
forcing people to do this through regulation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I -- is there a
distinction between the question Justice Breyer put to
you, the hypothetical of a municipal electricity
company, and this case? In this case you have private
haulers, you have private waste dumps at the end, you
just have a public, a publicly owned and mandated
processing center in the middle.
It would be as if in the electric case you
have private electric companies that generate the power,
private electric companies that distribute the power,
but they all have to go through a Government-owned
transformer at the key. It seems that's the case you
have here.
MR. TAGER: Yes. That's why --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you don't make that,
that's not the argument you make.
MR. TAGER: Well, I would --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: At least that's not the
way you answered Justice Breyer.
MR. TAGER: I like your answer better, Your
Honor.
(Laughter.)
MR. TAGER: But what, what I was trying to
get back to was --
JUSTICE BREYER: Like it --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But, but then, but then
Justice Breyer is going to say well, you --
MR. TAGER: He'd changed the hypo.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- that you, that you can
bar it altogether but you can't regulate it just a
little bit --
MR. TAGER: You can --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- actually is greater
than the sum of it.
JUSTICE BREYER: I actually point out that
California, I think, wants to own the grid and privatize
the rest of it. And there are -- I mean, it --
Justice Kennedy is totally right. There are all kinds
of combinations and permutations. There, there could be
distributors who are in fact regulated private companies
and local distributors who are owned by the city, and I
guess there, there is one generator, at least, company
that's owned by the -- that's a -- TV -- with TVA.
They, they make their own.
So there are all kinds of permutations and
combinations. And I think we're getting at, when we
take that aspect of the permutation and combination and
say that aspect of it which is owned by a Government
says: "Our way or the highway." You know, that's what
they say. "Buy from us." Period.
And if you're in a certain region, I've
always thought they could do that. And I have to admit
I never really looked it up; I've just never came across
a case that says to the contrary.
MR. TAGER: I, I haven't seen a case either
way. It's my, my way of seeing this case law is that
there's -- that the rule is simple: if you are doing
something to interfere with the free flow of interstate
commerce, you're subject to strict scrutiny. And maybe
in that situation, maybe it survives strict scrutiny. I
don't know that they would in this day and age, when
getting, getting gas or other kinds of power to a
commercial establishment, for example, is not very
difficult and would not necessarily tear up the
infrastructure, or whatever. I think they might --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What I guess we really
don't know is whether Justice Breyer's parade of
horribles are cases in which the municipality was able
to provide the service more cheaply if it subsidized it,
in which case there's no burden on commerce, or were
they accompanied by prohibitions against competition, as
Justice Scalia pointed out. I don't know.
MR. TAGER: I think it's hypothetical.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's a quite different
assumption.
MR. TAGER: I think his hypothetical assumed
a ban. But I certainly agree with you, Justice Stevens,
that if they do it simply by competing, then that's
perfectly acceptable.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what is your
authority for the proposition that we use strict
scrutiny?
MR. TAGER: I draw it from the entire line
of cases, from the local processing cases, the embargo
cases, the local --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you give me one case
of it being strict scrutiny?
MR. TAGER: For?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, I just didn't
realize that that phrase entered into our Commerce
Clause jurisprudence. Correct me if I'm wrong.
MR. TAGER: Well, I was using it as a
synonym for the "virtually per se unconstitutional"
rule.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That is to say, if it
discriminates?
MR. TAGER: If it discriminates, or some of
the earlier cases didn't use the term --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But certainly on burden
cases we don't require that.
MR. TAGER: Well, not the burden that we
talk about in the price context. But in the earlier
cases they referred, cases like Minnesota versus Barber
and some of the other, earlier cases, refer to it as
being burdens on commerce, but clearly what they meant
was there are certain kinds of regulations, and I think
it's easier to just categorize them, embargoes, local
needs requirements, local processing requirements,
things likes that, which basically so obstruct
interstate commerce as to require the virtual per se
rule.
Indeed, Pike itself has that very statement.
That's sort of the classic case in which you invoke that
high level of scrutiny.
If the Court has no further questions, I'd
like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Cahill.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL J. CAHILL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. CAHILL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
No decision of this Court has held that
public service is comparable to private enterprise for
purposes of dormant Commerce Clause analysis. Here the
only entity that benefits from these laws is the
government itself.
JUSTICE ALITO: All the local processing
cases, would they have come other differently if those
facilities -- the milk processing plant, the shrimp
processing plant, and so forth -- had been publicly
owned?
MR. CAHILL: I think, Your Honor, they would
be different. In each of those cases the laws in
question operated to protect a private entity or group
of entities. In Dean Mills, for instance, it was a
group of private milk pasteurizers within a five-mile
radius of the town -- the city of Madison. In none of
those cases was the government itself engaged in
providing the service to the public.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it might be a good
revenue device for the government to say, yeah, let's
have our own pasteurizing plant, we'll make it a
criminal offense for anybody to use a facility other
than ours and we'll charge triple the price.
MR. CAHILL: Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's not a burden on
interstate commerce?
MR. CAHILL: That might be. In our case
that is not the case here. What we use is a user fee.
We have a limit. There's a limit to a user fee. We can
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the user fee were
ten times what it is?
MR. CAHILL: We can only charge something
that's reasonably related to the cost of what, of the
service that we provide.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why is that?
MR. CAHILL: In Evansville Airport, Your
Honor, this Court held that -- versus Delta Airlines --
that a user fee is constitutionally limited; there has
to be a relationship between the cost of a service and
the amount that's charged.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So don't call it a user
fee. Call it something else.
MR. CAHILL: Your Honor, if we --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Call it a tax ripoff.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Then you can charge
whatever you want, so long as you don't call it a user
fee, right?
MR. CAHILL: In New York, Your Honor, you
either have to call it a user fee or a tax or something
else.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Call it a cable TV
franchise fee. I mean, isn't that the way
municipalities used to make a lot of money? They
charged outrageous amounts to give the cable franchise
and then grant a monopoly in exchange.
MR. CAHILL: I don't know what cable
franchises base their, base their amounts on. I do know
that in our case the cost to tip a ton of waste is
directly related to the value of the services that we
provide to the public.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To get back to the
public-private distinction, what is the answer to
Mr. Tager's point that that's difficult to -- what if
you have a 50 percent publicly owned, 50 percent
privately owned company? Is that covered by the
Commerce Clause cases or not?
MR. CAHILL: Your Honor, I think that the --
they would not be -- it would not be unconstitutional
under the Commerce Clause cases. I think that the
distinction is that when government is actually in the
transaction, when it's taking the risks, when it's
spending public money, when it's providing a service
directly to the people, it's a public, it's a public
service.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But at the same -- exactly
that -- that avoids the problem. At exactly the same
time, it's protecting the private 50 percent interest.
Why isn't the better answer that in fact that would be
subject to Commerce Clause analysis and that would fall,
that if the government wants to do this the government's
going to do it the way the government's doing it in your
case, it's going to be a 100 percent government. If it
doesn't, it's protectionism.
MR. CAHILL: Your Honor, I agree with you.
We don't have 50 percent ownership. We don't have any
private ownership anywhere. There are, however,
government agencies in other contexts where there is a
private partner. That's a case that isn't here today.
But the question was what if there was, and I don't
think the answer is automatic one way or the other.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You know, there's a general
agreement throughout the world nowadays that sovereign
immunity, which usually applies to governments, doesn't
apply when the government is engaged in a commercial
activity. Now, why shouldn't something similar apply to
government regulation which ends up discriminating
against out of State businesses, when the government is
engaging in a commercial activity it is subject to the
restrictions of the Commerce Clause? Why isn't that a
reasonable rule?
MR. CAHILL: I think it is a reasonable
rule. But I don't think that we're engaging in
commercial activity in this particular case. If we were
to offer our services to citizens to whom we do not have
a governmental responsibility, then I think we're
entering into the realm of competition with the private
sector.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I suppose any
private entity can choose its market.
MR. CAHILL: Pardon me, Your Honor?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose any private
entity can choose its market. You're a market
participant. You're saying, we're going to serve this
class of consumers. That's your privilege. But what
you do is you have a market participation which is
sanctioned by the criminal law. You've built this trash
utopia where everybody sends wonderful trash and you
enforce use of that by the criminal law. So you're
engaging as a market participant, but you're taking an
extra advantage by using the criminal law to enforce, to
enforce its use.
MR. CAHILL: Your Honor, I don't -- I agree
with you that we're providing a service here, and we do
use the law to require that haulers and generators
participate in the service that we -- in the system that
we've created. We need to have -- to achieve the goals
that we're trying to achieve. We've asked our public to
separate their wastes and we've asked our haulers to
collect it in a way that's consistent with the programs
that we've established.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You could do that by
requiring all trash pickup to segregate recyclable and
non-recyclable, and if it's going to cost each
householder just as much trouble then there could be
competition and you would have achieved your goal. No?
MR. CAHILL: No, Your Honor. There is no
competition between our program and -- that's offered by
the private sector. What we do is different than what
the private sector offers and there's no place else for
it to go. The haulers are required today to comply with
the program and to coordinate their activities with the
separation done by the residents and the facilities that
the authority has putting to.
We do things -- we have three different,
three basic differences between what we do and what the
private sector would do. The first one is to step in
and take some of the risk for proper disposal. When the
haulers make the decision about where the garbage goes,
there's a liability that attaches to the waste. If it
goes to the wrong place it's going to follow, follow
back both to the hauler and to the person who generated
it. We have had some bad experiences with people making
bad decisions about where waste goes in the 1980s and
the public asked us to set something up so that they
could trust who was making the disposal decisions. So
as a government we've stepped into that problem. We've
stepped into the shoes of the generator, and we're
trying to set up a place --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You could do that by law.
You could do that by law. You could specify that only
certain waste facilities can be used.
MR. CAHILL: I think not, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't have to run the
business in order to assure that, do you?
MR. CAHILL: I think we do.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why?
MR. CAHILL: Because we don't have the power
as a local government in New York to talk to landfills
in Ohio or Pennsylvania about how they should run their
facilities. The only way that we can be sure that it
goes to the right place, that's engineered the right way
and built the right way and run the right way is to
offer to do it ourselves. And that's what we've --
JUSTICE ALITO: But none of that -- in
answer to my earlier question, I thought you said none
of that really matters, right? The only thing that
matters is that this is a publicly owned facility. You
could be selling hamburgers or renting videos and it
would come out the same way.
MR. CAHILL: I think why public ownership
matters is that it's not discriminatory. I think the
strict scrutiny test should not apply when government
owns --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So your answer is yes?
MR. CAHILL: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't matter?
Hamburgers are just as good?
MR. CAHILL: Well, hamburgers, Your Honor,
if the government was going to be the sole purveyor of
hamburgers in a community, I think they'd have to have a
very, very good reason. If they had such a good reason,
then yes, government could do that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, that's just a
question of New York law, isn't it?
MR. CAHILL: Of --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I don't know, I don't know
what municipalities can do in New York. You say they've
got to have a good reason. I assume you're referring to
New York law for that purpose.
MR. CAHILL: I am not, Your Honor. I have
no idea --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What are you referring to,
then?
MR. CAHILL: The concept, the concept that
government might be, might find it necessary to get into
the hamburger business. I can't --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then essentially it's just
a political check on it. When you say there's got to be
a good reason, politically people would get mad if you
didn't have a good reason; is that basically it?
MR. CAHILL: That's one reason. It would
also --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But there's no Commerce
Clause reason?
MR. CAHILL: I think there's no Commerce
Clause reason.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. CAHILL: I think there's no Commerce
Clause reason.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Cahill, you started to
tell us three reasons why it was important that you
regulate. You gave us one. Mention the other two.
MR. CAHILL: The other two are, Your Honor,
that we are fulfilling national objectives in trying to
establish the system that reduces the amount of waste
that we generate and recycles as much as possible.
That's not necessarily something that the private sector
would do. A landfill is not built to discourage the
amount of waste that comes through it. Our system is
designed to try to change the habits of our citizens and
increase recycling --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but it's basic
Commerce Clause analysis that a State has no interest in
what happens to the product out of State. Baldwin
versus Seelig.
MR. CAHILL: Your Honor, I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You can't say we want --
we're enacting this law to affect what happens in other
States. That's just contrary to the Commerce Clause.
MR. CAHILL: We are not attempting to
regulate what goes on in other States. We
are attempting --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I thought that was
just the answer you gave to Justice Stevens on your
point two.
MR. CAHILL: We are attempting to protect
our own citizens by reducing the liabilities that they
may incur if that waste is shipped anywhere outside of
the counties. We hope to give them a better solution
for disposal than they would get from the marketplace.
To the extent that liability crosses state lines, we are
trying to protect our citizens from that liability --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Whether they want the
protection or not?
MR. CAHILL: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And whether a private
individual can come and offer them the same protection
for less money or not?
MR. CAHILL: Yes, Your Honor, that's true.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We're the government and
we're here to help you?
MR. CAHILL: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't that almost a
fourth point? I realize you didn't get the third point
out yet. But isn't -- I remember your brief and isn't
there sort of a fourth point? And that is, I will
assume that the government does have some basic health
and safety objectives and the objective to protect its
citizens here.
MR. CAHILL: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: If the government tries to
pursue these policies solely by private inducement,
trash haulers may say, we don't want to deal on those
terms, we can haul somewhere else, in another county,
another State, what-not.
By taking on the job itself, the government
in effect is guaranteeing that to the extent it can
protect its citizens, induce respect for environmental
policy, and so on, it will do so without any cessation
of service? There's kind of an assurance of service
plus the objectives that the government gets by running
the plant itself. And isn't that sort of the nub of all
of your points?
MR. CAHILL: Yes, Your Honor, that's true.
That is the essence of government. We are there and we
are going to have to stay there. Whether -- where a
private entity might decide to go out of business
tomorrow, government is going to be there to continue to
do what we set out to do.
But this leads me also to my third point,
which is that we're attempting to implement a
comprehensive solid waste plan. With the passage of
Federal legislation on these environmental matters
touching on waste in the 1970s, with the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, and With the
Comprehensive Environmental Response and Liability Act,
there was a new message sent to the country, which to
generators meant, you better think about what you're
doing with this stuff. You better make a -- you better
watch where it goes and you better be careful because
liability could attach to you.
And RCRA told government, States and
localities, it was their responsibility to come up with
plans to find new ways to manage solid wastes. That's
what we've done. Any time a government comes together
to put a plan together to dispose of solid wastes,
whether like ours it uses several different technologies
to try to address different parts of the waste stream,
you have to have the cooperation of the people who
collect the waste. If the people who collect the waste
could drive its away to anywhere they please, the plan
is no plan; the plan is just a suggestion. The haulers
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Who mandated this plan?
The State of New York?
MR. CAHILL: The State of New York.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the State of New York
can't mandate what happens to interstate commerce.
MR. CAHILL: No, Your Honor, it cannot.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you say the Congress of
the United States has authorized discrimination against
interstate commerce, then of course it can do that.
That has happened.
MR. CAHILL: That is not our position, Your
Honor. We're not saying that RCRA or any of these
statutes authorize discrimination against interstate
commerce. What the Federal statutes did do, however,
was recognize that the states do have the sovereign
power to act, and they expected the states to act in
this way.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's take one of these
classic discrimination cases involving milk. I think
what you're telling us is that if Wisconsin adopted a
law requiring all milk to be pasteurized at a facility
owned and operated by the State of Wisconsin, that would
be perfectly okay.
MR. CAHILL: That would not discriminate
against interstate commerce.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right. And it would
really advantage Wisconsin dairy farmers, wouldn't it,
and really disadvantage out of Wisconsin dairy farmers,
and you think that the Commerce Clause doesn't speak to
that.
MR. CAHILL: No, I do think the Commerce
Clause speaks to it, Your Honor, but I just -- our
position is it just doesn't require strict scrutiny. I
think the Pike test is a very good test to get to the
bottom of why Wisconsin would want to do such a thing,
and it would also be a good test to show just what the
adverse impact on interstate commerce was, and what
precisely the benefits of, to Wisconsin there might be.
I think the Pike test --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So then, the
Commerce Clause would become the vehicle by which we
would develop federal law about what's appropriate for
municipal governments to do and what's not appropriate?
We could decide it may be appropriate to run waste
facilities but not to run milk pasteurization. I don't
know how we would do that.
MR. CAHILL: I don't know how you would do
that either, Your Honor, but you would be led into that
by accepting the petitioner's argument that public
services and private sector services are comparable
under the Commerce Clause. To go back to your example,
earlier, Justice Scalia --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if we accepted
that argument, we would treat the public services just
like we treat, you know, the legislation favoring
private companies. You're the one that's arguing for
special treatment based on public ownership.
MR. CAHILL: I think we are not, Your Honor.
I think public ownership and public services are unique
and they're different, and they should be subject to
Commerce Clause scrutiny, but not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the whole point
is these are not unique. The whole point is there are
private companies that provide these kinds of services.
Maybe water, maybe electricity, maybe those are or are
not unique. But you can't say that this is a unique
service being provided by government.
MR. CAHILL: I think the approach that
Oneida-Herkimer has taken is in fact unique. It is
tailored to our local situation. It's not something
that the marketplace would provide if the government was
not there. And if the Petitioner's idea that any
government service could be challenged under the dormant
Commerce Clause simply because there's a private entity
out there that says they could do the same thing were
accepted, the definition of discrimination would be
changed from differential treatment of economic
interests to differential treatment of government or
economic interests. And whether we use the taxing power
or police power to support a public enterprise, it would
be subject to challenge.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the challenge here
isn't gauging this business, the question is whether you
can require everybody in the area to go through the one
facility and pay a tipping fee.
MR. CAHILL: Yes.
I would like to close, I think, because I'm
running out of time, with just the admonition or
requirement that we are, in providing a public service,
still subject to the Constitution and we must deal with
the part private sector fairly. But if we do deal with
the private sector fairly and we don't favor anyone in
state or anyone out of state, we should be judged under
the balancing test of Pike, so that the Court, if the
court below found the benefits of our system
substantially outweigh any incidental burdens that are
placed on it by commerce, placed on commerce by the
system. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Cahill.
Ms. Halligan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CAITLIN J. HALLIGAN
ON BEHALF OF NEW YORK AS AMICUS CURIAE
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
MS. HALLIGAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
As you suggested, Justice Breyer, the theory
that petitioners would have the Court adopt here is in
fact a novel one. What they are suggesting is that
there is discrimination sufficient to trigger near fatal
scrutiny every time the government takes over, to the
exclusion of all private actors both in state and out of
state, a government service, that that is sufficient to
trigger strict scrutiny. That is completely
inconsistent with the way that this Court has defined
what constitutes discrimination for purposes of the
dormant Commerce Clause.
The Court has said, and it has stressed
repeatedly in its precedent, that discrimination is the
differential treatment of in state and out of State
economic interests, not government interests, in a way
that benefits the former and burdens the latter. That's
from Oregon Waste System.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask you a sort of
simple question. Is there an interstate impact on, of a
municipal rule whether it is milk, or garbage, or what,
that says all of this product must be processed within
this city before it can go out of State?
MS. HALLIGAN: There may well be an
interstate impact.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Doesn't that have a burden
on interstate commerce?
MS. HALLIGAN: It may well, and that is
something that is appropriately judged under the Pike
standard.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't that exactly what we
have here?
MS. HALLIGAN: I think that you do have that
here, and you should judge it under the Pike valency
test, not under the near fatal scrutiny that's, that's
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But Pike doesn't apply to
discrimination. Pike applies to burdens.
MS. HALLIGAN: Yes, Your Honor. And where
you have --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems you are
conflating the two.
MS. HALLIGAN: Respectfully, I disagree,
Your Honor. Where you have the government taking over a
service entirely, that doesn't constitute discrimination
because there is no local private interest that is
advantaged, and no burden that is shifted to out of
state interest. That is where the dormant Commerce
Clause is primarily --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So long as the government
enters the commercial market, it can, it can create
Fortress California? MS. HALLIGAN: We're not asking
for a rule that broad, Your Honor. What we are
suggesting is that where you have a publicly owned
operation, a government operation, and it does not
disproportionately benefit in state or local interests,
as against out of state interests -- But it always does.
It benefits the people of the State, who make the money
from the money from the, from the very expensive
hamburgers that are sold by the State of California.
MS. HALLIGAN: If --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It always benefits the
State of California.
MS. HALLIGAN: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you're saying so long
as it doesn't benefit one particular malefactor of great
wealth in the State of California, it is okay.
MS. HALLIGAN: No, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't see the distinction
as far as the harm to the national market is concerned.
MS. HALLIGAN: If you were to have
government action, for example, someone suggested could
the government sell hamburgers. I believe Justice Alito
suggested that, and that was to operate to the
disadvantage of out of state interests, even if it only
advantaged one in state interest, we would agree that
that would be appropriate for treatment under strict
scrutiny. But that's not what you have here.
What both the district court and the circuit
court in fact found here is that the primary burden of
these local ordnances in fact is on local residents.
And so the political process check that this Court has
found critical in cases like Minnesota versus Cloverleaf
and Wunnicke is very much precedent here. This is not
an attractive proposition that these localities have
entered into.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What would you do with
Justice Alito's question? Dean Milk versus Madison:
All milk must be processed whether been 20 miles of
where it's --
MS. HALLIGAN: It's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- produced.
MS. HALLIGAN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Held discriminatory
against interstate commerce. Could -- under your view,
could your city require all milk be pasteurized within
your city at a government owned, city owned facility?
MS. HALLIGAN: If that rule imposed no
disproportionate benefits on out of state --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, but Justice Scalia
says it always does because it benefits the locality.
MS. HALLIGAN: It's different if it benefits
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You have -- by criminal
laws --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You -- I'm sorry. We're
looking at the interstate aspect from the wrong point of
view.
I'm a home owner. I have two choices. I
either send it to the local facility or I can ship it
over to New Jersey. You're telling me I can't ship it
to New Jersey. Doesn't that burden an interstate
transaction?
MS. HALLIGAN: This is very different from
those kinds of export bans. Those export bans did one
of two things.
JUSTICE STEVENS: This is an export ban.
MS. HALLIGAN: The export bans that this
Court has struck down either created local --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Your case involves an
expert ban. All the trash has to be processed in your
tipping facility.
MS. HALLIGAN: It does, and it does, and to
the extent that's what you are characterizing as an
export ban, that's certainly correct. What the Court
has found problematic about export bans are either that
they are put in place to create local to correct
economic opportunities, for example the timber cases or
the shrimp cases.
That's not what you have here. There's no
allegation that the purposes of these statutes is to
foster or promote local industry. In fact, the only
plaintiffs in this case are local haulers themselves.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there is an
allegation that you charge above market rates to pursue
particular economic goals that the municipality has.
MS. HALLIGAN: For a different basket of
services, Your Honor. A basket of services that
includes a wider range of, of goals that the private
sector has no Interest in providing.
To return, to return to the question of
whether or not this is an inappropriate benefit for the
citizens, I would argue that there is a meaningful
distinction between government taking an action which
benefits the citizens as a whole, which we would hope
any government law would -- any law passed by a
government would do, as opposed to a law that benefits a
local private economic interest and is intended to do
so.
For the dormant Commerce Clause to reach
that far would be unprecedented. It would implicate not
only electricity but under Petitioner's theory it would
implicate, I would think for example government
decisions to provide prison and correctional services
through a public system as opposed to a private one.
What about school bus services? Car insurance --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If only facilities
on your side of the case that are traditional municipal
services, but then this seems to be at the borderline.
I mean, on the other side, they have the hamburger cases
or the milk processing cases. How do we decide whether
this is one of the traditional governmental services,
the police, the prisons, whatever, or is it one of these
that looks more like regular market participation?
MS. HALLIGAN: Two answers if I can, Your
Honor. First of all, I think this Court has answered
that question with respect to waste management more than
a hundred years ago in the California Reduction case.
It was clearly held there the provision of waste
management services is an essential function that
governments appropriately provide.
So that's been answered here. With respect
to this question about hamburgers and other services
that look commercial, I think there are two checks on
those kinds of ordinances. First of all, I think it is
very likely that in most circumstances if you were to
say that hamburgers will be sold at a government
operated facility, that that would disadvantage local
interests significantly, and there would be a political
process check.
Secondly the Court has been clear that it is
not bound by formalistic distinctions in the Commerce
Clause arena and so it will look for discrimination that
is protectionist in nature whether it is, as the Court
has said, forthright or ingenious. So if case were to
present itself, and the facts in the facts in this case
no whiff of that protectionism, where you were to
believe that the motive of a government entity was, in
fact, to favor some local private interest, then strict
scrutiny might be appropriate.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is that what it turns on,
the motive? If the motive were to keep the jobs at the
plant in New York, rather than in some facility outside
of New York, that would be, that would make a
difference?
MS. HALLIGAN: No, I think this Court has
held the purpose alone cannot cure an inappropriate
means that is used. But what we are arguing is that
here you have both a very legitimate purpose, as my
co-counsel outlined for you; you also have appropriate
means. It is not inappropriate under the dormant
Commerce Clause for the government to step in and take
over provision of a service. Petitioners themselves
agree that, in fact, the government could take over
waste management services from soup to nuts. They
suggest that there is some difference of a
constitutional magnitude because some aspect of that is
contracted out to the private market, and would argue
that actually turns the dominant Commerce Clause on its
head.
One final point, if I could make. Several
of you asked about whether or not there are other
mechanisms that the localities could use to further
these goals, goals which are set forth in both Federal
and State laws.
First of all, under the Pike test, there is
no least restrictive alternative test. So it is not
required that the localities demonstrate that there is
no other option that might meet these goals. The Second
Circuit concluded and rightly so I think on page 20a of
the appendix to the petition that there was no other
option that presented itself in the record that the
counties could address, or could use to address their
liability concerns and to encourage recycling across a
very wide range of products.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is no determinative
element in the Pike test whatever. It is a totality of
the circumstances test, right?
MS. HALLIGAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's wonderful.
(Laughter.)
MS. HALLIGAN: And we suggest that that is
the appropriate test here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Halligan, how do you
answer something in the Petitioner's brief that says
there's no difference between this case and Carbone
because these transfer stations are constructed and
operated by a private company?
MS. HALLIGAN: I think that that distinction
is essential here. It is essential because of the
purposes of the dormant Commerce Clause. These are
publicly owned facilities. The facility in Carbone was
privately owned and as you suggested, Justice Ginsburg,
the opinion is replete with careful references to that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where do you, where
do you come out on the 50-50 facility?
MS. HALLIGAN: I think that's a hard
question, Your Honor. And I think there the kind of
approach that the Court took in a case like Westland
Creamery and Hunt versus Washington Apple is helpful.
If it appears to the Court that the motive
is protectionist then it is appropriate to apply strict
scrutiny. Whether that line is 50 percent, 55 percent
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought you
said earlier motive was not the test, in response to I
think it was Justice Alito.
MS. HALLIGAN: Yes, Your Honor. I'm saying
you should look as you have -- and I see my time is up.
If I may continue -- you should look as you have, in all
of the dormant Commerce Clause cases at the context that
is presented. So if there is 100 --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you. Thank
you, Counsel.
Mr. Tager you have three minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EVAN TAGER,
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS
MR. TAGER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
The first point I'd like to make is I'd like
to ask the Court to review Reeves versus Stake which is
a market participant case. But what is significant
there -- that's the cement plant case -- there's two
significant things about that case which I think are of
interest.
First, the Court's footnote 1 is an
interesting historical footnote about how South Dakota
had elected to make a lot of these different industries
state-run industries, so the hypotheticals we've been
discussing are not completely off the wall.
If you can do it for waste you can do it
for, in that case coal. They wanted to do it for
stockyards but I think the legislature rejected the
government's proposal. So the hypos are right on point.
Secondly, the Court made a point there in
rejecting the argument, the constitutional argument that
the state was not prohibiting competing cement
companies. And I think the inference from that is that
it had, there would have been a Commerce Clause problem.
Second, Mr. Cahill's user -- user fee point.
I just want to remind the Court that in addition to
paying for the recycling and everything, they were using
the user fee to pay off the bond for their failed energy
recovery facility. So, if you start focusing on what
you use it for, it is a very slippery slope.
On his point about protecting the generator
from liability, we've addressed that at great lengths in
our briefs. But one other point I want to make is he's
wrong about their ability to determine whether other
facilities that the haulers want to use are safe for
environmental purposes. That's exactly what the city of
New York does. Because it doesn't have its own disposal
facility, its got very stringent requirements for where
the waste can be taken.
Fourth, Justice Souter, I believe you were
raising an inquiry about the political process and
whether that's adequate to protect the out of State
interests.
And I'd like to refer you to the West Lynn
Creamery decision where the Court said the people whose
oxen are being gored by a tariff are the local residents
as well, but a tariff is the prototypical Commerce
Clause violation. The political process is simply not a
good answer to our argument.
In terms of your other question about --
JUSTICE SCALIA: A tariff is also imposed by
a State, isn't it? As opposed to --
MR. TAGER: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Money goes to a State.
MR. TAGER: It would go to a State. I
suppose it could be done by a subdivision, though.
On Ms. Halligan's point about California
Reduction, I just would like to remind the Court that
that was a case of flow control to a private company.
So Carbone, to the extent that case was concerned at all
with the Commerce Clause, and it didn't say that it was,
it was a taking case, I think, it has been overruled to
the extent it had any Commerce Clause implications.
Finally, I would like end with the point
that Carbone has been the law for 13 years -- may I
finish?
If the Respondents have a problem with
Carbone, Congress can fix it. That's one of the unique
things about the Commerce Clause that is different from
other constitutional provisions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:08 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
56:15 agencies 6:13 appendix 51:23 24:10 beaten 21:7
24:12 29:18 apply 5:4 6:16 attaches 32:8 42:25 53:19
agreement 30:1 44:14 53:4 attempting 50:15 55:6
Airport 27:19 53:1 37:25 7:24 45:8,18
45:25 50:18 46:4 50:17 3:5 24:16 32:2 40:10 42:17
Alito's 46:15 53:4 authorized 39:5 47:1,3,4 48:22
51:19 42:6 29:12 36:8
48:21 21:9 arena 50:10 back 17:25 21:1 big 12:7
11:21 14:10,17 arguing 41:3 bad 14:9 32:11 borderline
amount 17:17 2:2,5,8,12 3:3 balance 26:1 bought 14:11
28:16 18:13 19:20 ban 24:12 47:19 17:23
17:3 22:5 54:12,12 55:15 bar 22:15 7:9 12:3,16,19
33:9,18 36:3 32:13 51:14 barriers 3:11 22:4,10,12,20
answers 16:18 Association 1:4 28:16 brief 36:24
46:3 anybody 4:18 assume 10:19 basic 32:4 35:16 briefs 54:24
Car 49:8 certification 48:22 4:19 7:7,18,23
27:7 3:14,18 6:8 cessation 37:13 43:25 46:23,24 9:15 11:1,14
46:7 9:21,22 10:18 cetera 5:1 46:24 55:2 12:5,12 15:1
12:8,20 16:20 challenge 42:3,4 clarification 5:2 19:1 20:4
43:19 56:1,6,9 41:20 classic 25:23 25:15,20 26:10
care 10:5 change 35:14 39:16 27:8 28:25
32:23 case 3:12 6:20 characterize 8:1 9:12,15 35:17,23 39:2
37:21 6:23 9:17,18 10:6 12:5,12 19:1 39:6,11,22
9:18,20 10:15 characterizing 20:4 25:1 40:1,3,9,13,23
20:13 20:11 21:7,14 16:3 17:9 19:6 34:23,25 35:3 44:4,25 46:22
21:14,18,22 19:12 27:5,15 35:17,23 40:1 49:2 50:9 51:4
28:4 48:12 40:4,13,23 51:11 52:18
47:22 48:10 charging 8:15 52:18 53:13 commercial
50:13 52:13 cheaper 19:10 56:2,4,10 30:3,7,12 45:3
53:1,23,24,25 cheaply 24:4 clear 9:17 50:8 50:1
29:1 54:8 55:25 check 34:17 clearly 25:15 common 4:10,13
30:10,19 56:1,3,13,14 46:9 50:7 49:21 5:14,17
32:21 cases 6:20 11:3 checks 50:1 close 42:9 communities
33:1,14 11:21,23 15:23 Chief 3:3,9 7:12 Cloverleaf 17:12,13,18
34:4 24:3,19,19,20 7:21 14:8 15:8 46:10 18:6
25:8,10,13,13 26:2,6 28:10 coal 54:8 community 4:16
25:14 26:14,19 28:20 40:12,25 collect 31:13 33:24
26:24 28:25 41:9 42:21 38:19,19 companies 4:25
38:25 29:3 39:16 43:2 48:11 collection 8:20 4:25 6:11
40:3 46:10 48:5,6 49:9 52:22 15:22 19:22 21:19,20 22:25
41:5,15 49:12,13 53:13 53:7,15,20 combination 41:3,11 54:14
categorize 25:17 56:12 23:7 company 4:11
42:24 center 21:17 choose 30:18,21 come 5:19 26:14 13:17 21:5,14
17:17 20:8 51:22 38:12 52:23 52:15 55:25
55:23 23:11 25:16 circumstances comes 10:16 comparable
54:13 consumers 10:22 11:20,25 decide 7:14 39:25 46:2
30:15 context 25:12 15:16,23 20:11 49:13 disagree 44:20
53:13 20:22 25:25 decided 7:3 discourage
43:11 53:12 43:5,12,15 decision 26:8 39:21
contracted 46:6,7,9 47:21 32:7 55:11 discriminates
14:11 53:1,3,22 declare 19:1 30:5
20:12 55:24 definition 41:23 8:17 39:5,10
45:22 35:23 11:3 54:2 demonstrate 43:7,13,16
control 3:12 covered 8:9 51:20 44:15,22 50:10
17:5,19 55:25 co-counsel 51:2 destined 9:23 16:13 33:15
cooperation Creamery 15:16 52:3 discussing 54:6
correct 5:9 25:1 47:21 device 27:2 36:9 55:3
15:24 correctional criminal 27:4 14:19 15:17 38:15
cost 8:9 27:16 47:6 51:8 52:13 47:1
31:17 crosses 36:10 different 15:6 45:8
counties 3:15,17 48:14 54:4 14:5,10,17
51:25 D 3:1 differential 20:4,7 21:12
54:12 38:6 Dakota 54:3 differently 45:21 48:21
county 11:11 day 14:11,14,16 26:14 52:16
course 4:20 6:1 days 21:3 28:22 19:24,25 20:18
39:6 10:18 37:7 directly 5:24 distribute 21:20
52:14 3:10,14 4:3 Dean 26:21 29:7 4:11,12,14,25
23:1 6:10 16:11,15 ESQ 1:18,20,22 37:11 48:1 favors 12:6
29:15 49:4 essential 49:22 extreme 12:21 51:16
element 52:4 52:17,17 fee 17:14 19:23
14:12 6:21 15:3,19 establish 35:9 facilities 3:20 27:25 28:6,8
41:20 embargoing establishment 55:1 final 51:13
44:25 18:11 23:23 facility 7:15 8:8 Finally 56:5
51:3 embedded 11:17 estate 13:17 9:22 10:5,7,10 financing 19:21
53:13 employee 14:12 et 1:4,9 4:25 10:12 13:22 find 34:14 38:13
ends 30:5 event 7:23 39:18 42:7 12:23 14:10,16
enforce 31:2,4,5 31:1 42:6 50:5,20 52:19 49:18 50:2
entered 24:25 20:10 21:2 51:6 10:11 15:11
40:24 46:13 23:23 40:23 facts 50:13,13 17:5,18,19
entering 30:15 45:24 48:5 failed 54:19 23:18 55:25
43:18 enters 45:3 excluding 19:3 5:14,22 42:13 focusing 10:25
entire 24:18 exclusion 43:9 42:14 54:20
44:22 5:21 7:1 18:24 fallible 6:2 footnote 54:2,3
28:8 14:15 26:11,20 expensive 45:11 farmers 39:24 formalism 19:20
47:12,21 30:18,21 37:21 experiences 39:25 formalistic 14:4
41:21 50:15 32:11 fatal 43:7 44:12 14:9,17 15:9
environmental export 47:17,17 favorably 12:21 formalistically
38:7 29:16,21 30:3 50:23 52:6,9 29:1,18 30:19
12:1 10:9,17 11:5 37:19,22 38:11 34:15 49:12 40:4,20 41:5
46:7,10 52:11,20 38:14 41:14,18hamburgers 44:16,21 45:5
give 5:15 24:21 41:20,25 43:8 33:12,21,22,24 45:20 48:15
giving 6:25 46:24 48:21,23handsomely hope 36:8 48:22
18:8 19:20 governmental happens 7:13 householder
21:2 42:6 43:25 30:2 40:15 harm 45:22 hundred 49:20
55:21 49:23 haul 37:8 Hunt 53:2
49:22 51:16,21 21:21 21:15 31:8,12 5:10
35:25 38:9 great 10:5 45:18 48:10 55:1 hypotheticals
54:23 hauling 11:12 54:5
11:7,12,13 14:14,20,22 grounds 8:12 heard 5:18 34:10 41:19
43:23 16:8 17:11,25 group 26:20,22 18:10 immunity 11:22
6:10 18:7 30:22 31:17 guess 4:8,16 6:7 26:8 27:20 15:1 40:9
23:22 32:9 33:23 20:17 23:2 46:21 49:21 43:22 44:2
27:1 33:21,25 H helpful 53:2 implicate 49:3,5
34:19 40:6,8 Halligan 1:22 higher 16:3 8:1
gored 55:12 43:2 44:1,5,10 historical 54:3 56:4
32:16 11:25 12:13 45:13,16,20,23 home 47:11 importation
13:21 20:9 46:18,20,25 Honor 13:21 18:11 19:11
intergovernm... 22:14,18,20,23 46:21 47:2,6 lengths 54:23
55:17 interstate 3:11 24:15,21,24 kind 7:7 11:19 39:15
7:25 8:17,17 26:13 27:1,7 37:14 52:25 liabilities 36:6
50:24 23:18 25:20 28:2,4,10,20 22:23 23:5,22 36:10,11 38:5
27:8 39:2,6,10 29:9,25 30:17 25:16 41:11 38:10 52:1
investment 13:4 34:22 35:1,4 12:14,15 13:11 likes 25:19
39:16 38:23 39:1,4 28:15,16 29:25 lines 36:10
42:4,21 43:2,4 known 17:14 little 7:3 19:13
J 1:20,22 2:6,9 44:14,18 45:2 L live 4:14
48:9 January 1:12 46:14,15,19,21 17:17 local 3:14,17 4:4
judge 44:11 52:3,7,11,20 Laughter 22:7 11:2,18 23:1
29:11 6:24 7:9,12,21 K 48:23,23,24 48:10,25 50:5
44:23,25 8:4,22 9:1,4,10 keep 13:22 56:6 50:16 55:12
48:17,25 9:13,19,25 50:19 laws 4:6 26:11 localities 38:12
54:1 10:9,17 11:5 Kennedy 9:19 26:19 47:7 46:12 51:15,20
17:24 18:1,5 25:5,9 27:1,7 15:4 logic 6:16,18
43:18,18 19:5,9,16,19 30:20 35:16,21 legislation 38:2 19:10,16 28:5
46:2 20:3,17 21:11 36:2 38:23 41:2 45:2,17
55:9 21:12,25 22:3 39:1,4 44:14 legislature 54:9 look 50:1,10
28:12 25:15 38:7 12:10 14:11 objectives 35:8 Oregon 43:20
mechanisms 15:10 24:3 37:2,15 ought 14:25
memory 5:24 4:13 obstructed 3:24 outrageous
obvious 5:23 28:13
message 38:6 35:8 45:22 36:16 outweigh 42:18
middle 21:17 18:7 Ohio 33:3 6:5 9:23 13:21
miles 46:16 nature 50:11 okay 8:10 9:1 21:16 23:1,3,8
39:16,18 40:17 necessarily 20:20 21:9 33:11 39:19
46:23 49:13 necessary 34:14 45:19 52:19,20
3:5 49:19 Minnesota never 4:18 5:18 1:7 3:5 41:16 6:25 7:2 9:22
51:7 25:13 46:10 5:24 6:14 7:4 opening 14:24 11:4 14:5,23
10:16 13:12,16 2:10 6:11,13 39:19 50:5 owns 16:21
29:6 36:17 34:3,6,8 38:6 operation 45:7,7 oxen 55:12
45:3,22 45:10,11 55:20 38:13,24,25 operator 10:3
49:16 monopoly 5:16 39:1 42:25 P
53:23 18:22,24 28:14 47:13,14 50:20 10:1,10,18 P 3:1
41:18 motive 50:15,19 nice 13:23 opportunities 51:22
16:21 municipal 6:10 nondiscrimin... opposed 10:1 pairing 5:10
56:15 6:10 8:23 10:5 17:2 48:24 49:7 parade 24:2
38:2 16:3 18:1,7,14 16:4,10 31:17 option 51:21,24 parity 18:9
22:22 21:7,13 40:15 nowadays 30:1 3:7 26:4 42:24 parrot 8:24
28:11 43:23 49:10 nub 37:16 order 9:17 11:17 part 18:15 42:13
municipalities nuts 51:7 16:13 32:23 participant
23:7 47:9 51:13 31:22,23 32:5 48:9
30:24 person 13:9,12 55:23 56:5 41:3,11,21 proposal 54:10
32:10 pointed 24:7 42:13,14 43:9 proposition
14:4 petitioners 1:5 police 42:2 49:7 50:16 proprietor 10:3
45:18 1:19 2:4,14 3:8 49:15 51:10 52:15 10:14
43:5 51:5 policies 37:6 55:25 protect 26:20
pickup 21:4 poorer 16:14 29:10 32:15 protecting 29:11
46:23 Pike 25:22 40:6 39:8 40:5 problematic protection 12:20
44:6,11,14,15 possibility 16:14 problems 14:21 36:13,16
pipeline 4:13,13 power 21:19,20 46:9 50:7 55:7 12:6,6,17 13:3
42:7 place 15:18 39:13 42:1,2 processed 43:24 50:14
31:23 32:9,17 practical 8:1 46:16 47:23 protectionist
plaintiffs 48:10 precisely 40:10 21:17 24:19 55:13
8:3,11 38:15,20,21,21 presented 51:24 26:16 49:13 8:12 21:2 24:4
9:6 16:4 38:23 53:14 produced 46:19 27:17 28:19
17:18 plans 38:13 prevent 12:5,12 producer 12:8 41:11,18 49:6
20:12 plant 11:13 price 16:3,9 producers 12:7 49:23
21:10 13:10 18:19 25:12 27:5 product 35:18 provided 41:14
32:11 26:15,16 27:3 primarily 45:1 43:24 providing 7:19
38:18,19 37:16 50:20 primary 46:7 products 11:6 15:21 19:14
55:11 53:24 prior 11:22 52:2 21:4 26:25
29:11 38:20 43:3 prison 49:6 program 31:21 42:11 48:17
53:5 pledge 10:7 prisons 49:15 31:25 provision 5:11
plenty 17:12,13 private 3:25 programs 31:13 49:21 51:5
39:20 plus 37:15 14:10 18:12 19:17 public 3:24 6:23
17:7 15:15 17:12 21:20 22:25 54:13 11:4 14:5,15
22:20 28:22 26:9,20,22 prohibitions 14:23 15:21,21
31:11 raising 55:7 refer 25:14 25:18 55:4 risks 29:5
33:14 range 48:16 55:10 requiring 31:16 road 14:24
41:1,4,6 52:2 references 10:9 39:18 ROBERTS 3:3
42:2,11 rates 16:13 52:21 resentment 4:7 7:12,21 14:8
48:12 referred 10:11 15:7 15:8 26:2
28:23 39:9 referring 34:7 residents 32:1 40:25 41:9
45:6 reach 49:2 34:11 46:8 55:12 42:21 48:11
read 5:25,25 regarded 15:19 Resource 38:3 49:9 52:22
17:23 real 13:17 regular 49:16 49:19,24 rubbish 16:4,5,6
28:21 realize 24:25 regulate 22:15 Respectfully 16:10,10,16
51:1 23:13 24:1 regulation 21:10 1:21,24 2:7,11 43:23 45:5
26:10 realm 30:15 regulations Respondent's run 7:15 18:20
48:8 reason 3:22 17:20 25:16 3:16,20 19:11 32:22
55:2 11:23 16:1 rejected 11:20 response 10:13 33:3,6 40:16
33:25,25 34:7 rejecting 54:12 responses 10:8 running 3:17
38:15 30:10 27:22 rest 22:22
reasonably remaining 53:17 restraint 8:16 S
32:2 reasoning 18:9 36:24 15:11 safe 55:1
14:1 16:24 recognized 11:7 repeatedly 15:7 20:18 30:22
18:1 record 51:24 43:16 return 48:18,18 39:9 45:17
26:20 recovery 38:4 replete 52:21 revenue 27:2 53:10
33:9 54:20 representing revenues 15:11 says 4:23 23:9
42:5 recyclable 16:6 8:11 19:12 23:14 41:22
46:15 31:16 require 14:22 review 53:22 43:24 47:3
49:19,25 recycles 35:10 25:10,20 31:8 right 5:21 11:14 52:12
55:16 recycling 16:17 40:5 42:6 15:24 19:14 Scalia 8:4,22 9:1
52:1 54:18 required 3:21 33:5,5,6,6,10 19:9,16 24:7
40:24 29:6,8 31:7,9 sorry 8:22 10:17 18:2 35:23,25 subsidy 20:10
37:14,14 41:14 47:8 38:11 39:5,12 substantially
52:3,7 41:20 42:11 sort 25:23 36:25 39:13 42:18
43:10 44:22 37:16 43:21 state-run 54:5 substitute 6:22
15:20 40:22,22 41:1 17:24 18:5,16 39:11 48:8 suggest 15:13
23:19 41:6,11 48:15 18:20,24 19:19 stay 37:20 51:8 52:9
24:17,22 48:15 49:6,8 20:3,17 29:9 step 32:5 51:4 suggested 43:4
33:16 49:11,14,22,25 34:2,5,11,16 stepped 32:15 45:24 46:1
41:8 43:8 51:7 34:22 35:1 32:16 52:20
44:12 set 32:13,17 36:22 37:5 Stevens 24:1,12 suggesting 43:6
50:17 37:23 51:16 55:6 35:4 36:3 42:4 45:6
severe 3:13 South 54:3 43:21 44:3,8 suggestion
shipped 36:7 sovereign 30:1 stop 7:7,10 support 7:17 9:2
show 40:8 speak 10:4 40:1 story 15:5 supporting 1:24
32:5 48:6 special 41:4 17:19 suppose 20:4
40:22 side 15:9 49:10 specify 32:19 stream 38:17 27:13 30:17,20
48:17 49:12 spending 29:6 strength 17:1 55:22
53:11 53:23,25 standard 11:21 strict 5:3 15:20 sure 5:8 9:19
simple 23:17 state 4:21 7:2 43:11 46:4 survive 16:23
simply 24:13 12:12 14:14 string 11:6 synonym 25:3
45:25 single 6:20 19:17 20:14,24 struck 3:14 35:13 42:17,20
sold 45:12 50:4 43:9,10,17,17 subject 5:13 Tager 1:18 2:3
7:17 solution 36:8 55:8,18,20,21 56:15 10:8,22 11:16
24:4 26:9 somebody 4:20 statement 25:22 subsidize 20:14 12:14,17,23
27:17,22 16:8 states 1:1,15 4:9 subsidized 24:4 13:20 14:3,20
16:18 52:5,10 53:8 thousands 4:8 treat 41:1,2 unworkable
tests 5:6 three 32:3,4 treatment 7:15 11:24 14:7
Thank 3:9 26:2 35:5 53:17 41:4,24,25 use 24:16 25:8
42:20,21 53:15 throwing 12:2 43:17 46:4 27:4,10 31:2,5
22:2,5,8 53:15,20 56:12 timber 20:11,13 tries 37:5 31:8 42:1
23:15 theory 7:13 43:4 48:5 trigger 43:7,11 51:15,25 54:21
49:4 time 6:13 9:24 triple 27:5 55:1
they'd 18:20,22 13:8 26:1 trouble 31:18 user 19:23 27:10
33:24 29:11 38:14 truck 21:7 27:11,13,21,24
thing 5:14,23 42:10 43:8 trucks 21:5 28:5,8 54:16
13:1 40:7 41:22 tipping 13:22 35:14 38:17 utilities 6:10
16:1 things 6:9 15:16 42:7 47:24 trying 5:19 6:7 18:7
23:7 15:17,18 17:22 today 29:22 22:8 31:11 utility 6:4,5 18:1
39:15 25:19 32:3 31:24 32:17 35:8 19:21
47:18 53:25 told 38:11 36:11 utopia 31:1
think 4:18 6:15 ton 8:13 10:15 51:11 V
14:20,24 18:18 totally 22:23 35:6,7 36:4 vehicle 40:13
15:10 22:21 23:6,25 town 4:15,22,22 49:17 50:1 25:13 27:20
28:2,8 24:8,11 25:16 5:18 12:24 53:24 35:19 46:10,15
29:24 30:10,11 15:3 26:23 videos 33:12
40:1,3,6,11 49:14 unconstitutio... violate 4:6
50:1,2,23 transaction 7:25 understand 8:4 violation 7:18
37:24 transformer United 1:1,3,15 volume-based
5:20 6:11 15:9 trash 21:1,1 39:5
44:12 19:25 23:12 30:25 31:1,16 unprecedented W
52:4 33:9 36:2 53:7 37:7 47:23 49:3 walking 14:21
20:15 45:4 47:8 42:25 50:20,21
28:5 we've 31:10,11 55:3
36:12 31:12,14 32:15
40:7 32:15 33:7 $
55:1 38:14 54:5,23 $81 10:15
whiff 50:14
wider 48:16 05-1345 1:6
53:2 win 9:17,17
54:2
14:22 29:16
7:15 39:19,24,25
1:16 3:2
40:7,10
4:17
21:15 witness 10:11
56:14
32:8,12 wonderful 31:1
56:6
35:9,13 52:7
38:3
38:1,3,17 words 10:2
32:12
40:16 work 16:8,11
49:19,21 works 21:8 2
54:7 55:5 world 30:1 2 9:23
worry 15:24 20a 51:22
17:8,19 14:13 18:10 3
22:4 23:9 20:5 39:24 3 2:4
28:11 write 4:19
31:13 wrong 5:13,23 4
25:1 32:9 47:9 42 2:11
43:12,18 54:25
38:13 21:7 46:11 50 28:23,23
x 1:2,10 52:23
yeah 6:17 27:2
23:6 9:23 13:1,13 8 1:12
49:20 56:6
32:16
28:7 33:2 9 8:13
36:19,20
38:24
