IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ALBERTO R. GONZALES, :
ATTORNEY GENERAL, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 05-380
LEROY CARHART, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, November 8, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
PRISCILLA SMITH, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of the
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PRISCILLA SMITH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in case 05-380, Gonzales v. Carhart.
General Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
Congress held six hearings over four
different Congresses and heard from dozens of witnesses
in determining that partial-birth abortions are never
medically necessary, pose health risks, and should be
banned. Under familiar principles of deference to
congressional factfinding, those determinations should
be upheld as long as they represent reasonable
inferences based on substantial evidence in the
congressional record.
That standard is amply satisfied here. The
evidence before Congress was clear that partial-birth
abortions were never medically necessary, and that safe
alternatives were always available such that no woman
would be prevented from terminating her pregnancy. As a
result, Congress was entitled to make a judgment in
furthering its legitimate interests that they were going
to ban a particularly gruesome procedure that blurred
the line between abortion and infanticide.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Clement, couldn't
a similar record be made with respect to what is the
more common procedure, the D&E, that involves
dismemberment of a fetus inside the womb. So assuming
you're right that it is constitutional for Congress to
ban the D&X proceeding, wouldn't the same reasoning
apply, couldn't Congress make similar findings with
respect to what is the most common method for second
trimester abortions?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I don't think so, Justice
Ginsburg, and I think that this Court's precedence, in
particular the Danforth case, would stand as an obstacle
to that piece of legislation, because in Danforth, this
Court struck down an effort to ban what was then the
majority method of inducing a second-term abortion.
And I think in the same way, there is quite
a different situation when Congress comes in and tries
to deal with the primary abortion method in the second
trimester. Here, though, Congress didn't go after the
dog, so to speak, it went after the tail. This very
aberrant procedure, atypical procedure. And the numbers
are hard to come by, but I don't think anybody suggests
that the D&X procedure is anything more than a very
small minority of second trimester abortions. And so I
do think --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even though we are told
by some of the medical briefs that the procedures are
basically the same, they start out in the same way and
that the difference -- the differences are not large in
particular cases.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg,
let me make a couple of points in response to that. I
think -- taken at the broader level first, I think there
is one very important difference between these two
procedures that led Congress to ban one and allow the
other to stand. And that is whether fetal demise takes
place in utero, which is, of course, the hallmark of all
abortions, or whether fetal demise, the lethal act takes
place when the fetus is more than halfway out of the
mother.
Now, as to their suggestion, I think most
particularly by Respondents in the second case, that
there really is no meaningful difference between those
two procedures. And with respect, I just don't think
the record supports that. If you look at the record in
this case, it's very clear in the district court opinion
that you have some doctors, and examples would be
Plaintiff's expert, Dr. Creinin, or one of the Nebraska
Plaintiffs, Dr. Vibhakar. They go in, in each and every
case, and try to perform a dismemberment, or D&E,
procedure.
And because they're trying to perform the
D&E procedure, they need to dilate the cervix only
modestly. And so Dr. Creinin, for example, his
testimony is he only dilates the cervix two centimeters
or two and a half centimeters.
Now, in contrast, you have other doctors,
and here the examples I would point to are two of the
Plaintiff's experts, Dr. Chasen and Dr. Frederickson,
they, in every single case, set out to perform the D&X
procedure. And that has material differences. For
example, the dilation regimen that they use. And so
Dr. Frederickson, for example, uses multiple sets of
laminaria to dilate the cervix, and she gets a much
greater degree of dilation, 5 to 6 centimeters of
dilation.
And of course, not only do they set out to
perform different procedures, but they, in fact, perform
different procedures. So the evidence here again
reflects that Dr. Vibhakar, for example, in 100 percent
of the cases, ends up performing a dismemberment
procedure, or a D&E procedure. For Dr. Creinin, it's 99
percent.
Now, by contrast, Dr. Chasen and
Dr. Frederickson, when they set out to perform a D&X
procedure, they are successful in their objective less
often. There are different numbers for different
doctors, but it seems that, at most, they can achieve
their objective about a third of the time.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, those doctors
testified in the congressional hearings or in the Eighth
Circuit or Ninth Circuit or the Second Circuit? There
are so many doctors here. Which are the two that you're
referring to that do not dilate the cervix fully? Did
they testify in any of the district court cases?
GENERAL CLEMENT: They did, Justice Kennedy,
and in particular, Dr. Creinin is an expert. I think
his deposition was taken, or his testimony was taken
principally in the California case, but it was
introduced in all three cases as part of the evidentiary
record. Dr. Vibhakar is one of the Plaintiffs in this
particular case. And Dr. Chasen and Dr. Frederickson
would also -- their testimony was in the record, I
think, in all three cases.
JUSTICE BREYER: Just from my going through
this record, I compare it with Stenhart, with what's in
Congress. We have two cases here. And it's a fair
conclusion that there are, in each case, before Congress
and in here, there are some doctors who think this is
safe and some doctors who think it isn't safe.
And if you look at the -- sort of by
counting, by numbers, I guess if you look by lines of
testimony or by different doctors, interestingly enough,
it seems to me there are more doctors in these two cases
and in front of Congress who said it is not safe than
there were when we considered the other case. And there
are fewer doctors who say it is safe even with the other
case. So I don't know if you're supposed to count
doctors or what.
My question would be, if this -- do we owe
more deference to a congressional finding or to Congress
than we owe to a State legislature? What is -- I mean,
I take it a State legislature is democratically elected,
and don't we owe similar deference to both?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Breyer, I
think you certainly owe deference to both. I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if we owe deference
to both, and I would have thought that we did, then I
think in the Nebraska case, despite the deference that
was owed, the Court came to the conclusion that the
statute of Nebraska was unconstitutional because it
lacked an exception for the health of the mother,
something that came from preceding cases. So if giving
deference to Nebraska, we reach that conclusion there,
and if the deference that is owed is the same, and if
the evidence is about the same on both sides, how can we
reach a different conclusion here?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Breyer, I
mean, obviously I'm at a certain deficit to you in
discussing what this Court held in the Stenberg opinion,
which you wrote. But my reading of that opinion is that
this Court did not focus on what was before the Nebraska
legislature. But this Court focused on what the
district court found. And in particular, in the
critical part of the opinion, which would be Section
2(A) of the opinion, as I read the opinion, what this
Court did is it confronted Nebraska's argument that the
D&X procedure was not, in fact, safer.
And the first thing this Court did is said,
well, that argument faces quite a burden, because the
district court made a contrary finding. And then this
Court in 2(A)(1) of the opinion referenced that finding,
and four different times cited the district court
record, and then so on and so forth. It then noted the
various eight arguments were made by the State in its
amici to the contrary. And as I read the opinion, it
basically said the latter, the objections don't
outweigh the former, the findings.
Now, I think if you compare the record
before the courts and before Congress, compare that to
what was before the district court in Stenberg, I think
there is a much more robust factual record here. If you
look at the Stenberg case --
JUSTICE STEVENS: General Clement, are not
some of the findings by Congress clearly erroneous? For
example, there is a statement that no current medical
schools provide instruction in the procedure. Now
that's clearly wrong, isn't it?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I mean, specifically
what Congress found in that finding was that none of
them provided it as part of a curriculum. And I think
what the record here clearly reflects -- you know, I
don't know that the idea of a curriculum -- I don't know
exactly what Congress had in mind. But clearly, is a
matter of sort of what you teach residents --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you think that finding
is correct?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I don't know if it's
correct, based on the curriculum.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Supposing there was a lot
of evidence introduced in the district court that there
were schools like Yale and New York University that did
include this as part of a curriculum, could the district
court disregard that finding and make a contrary
finding?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think if the evidence in
the district court were overwhelmingly to the contrary,
I think that the district court could effectively
undermine that one finding. I don't think in this case
anything turned --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, on other findings,
is there a different standard of review of what the
district court found as opposed to what Congress found?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Stevens, I
would answer you this way. You might first want to
isolate those situations where, if the district court
was addressing something, an issue that just wasn't
before Congress at all, but it's somehow relevant, and
makes factual findings, I suppose the district court is
entitled to the normal kind of deference on review.
But I think if you have situations, which
you have in this case, where the district court heard
some of the same witnesses who testified before Congress
and before the district court, and the district court
makes a different credibility finding than the Congress
made, I don't think that's a basis for the district
court to be able to overcome the contrary findings of
Congress.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, I don't understand
Congress to have made credibility findings. As I read
the -- I read the whole finding. There were six or
seven pages of findings, and I don't find a single
reference in those findings to the performance of an
abortion on a nonviable fetus. All of the language in
the findings seem to be referring to viable fetuses just
inches away from becoming a person. And I don't think
you can even find the word fetus in those findings. The
findings as opposed to the text of the statute.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Sure, Justice Stevens, I
think I need to clarify an important point there, which
is to say, the statute didn't focus on viable versus
nonviable, because it applies to both sides of the
viability line.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm talking about the
findings. Is there a single word in the findings that
refers to a viable fetus? It maybe refers to a
nonviable fetus.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I don't think there is,
Justice Stevens, but I wouldn't find that at all
remarkable in a statute that applies and bans certain
procedures without regard to whether the procedure is
applied to a viable or nonviable fetus and when
Congress does make specific findings that the procedure
it's banning would have the effect of preventing a
lethal act on a fetus just inches from being born. It's
not --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I interrupt?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Sure.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It's not preventing the
lethal act, it is requiring that the lethal act be
performed prior to any part of the delivery, because
there is no doubt there will be a lethal act. The only
issue is when it may be performed.
GENERAL CLEMENT: The issue is whether --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Yes. Because the issue is
to whether it's going to be performed in utero, or when the
child is more than halfway outside the womb, and that of
course --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Whether the fetus is more
than halfway out, and some of these fetuses I understand
in the procedure, are only four or five inches long.
They are very different from fully formed babies.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Stevens, again,
you're right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: When it's halfway out, I
guess you can call it either a child or a fetus. It's
sort of half and half isn't it?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think you could use
either terminology, Justice Scalia. My point is,
nothing turns on the terminology. I mean, the
terminology that Congress chose to use is a living
fetus. I think the point, though, is that when fetal
demise is induced in utero, whatever else you think
about that procedure that is classically an abortion, as
it has been always understood. But when fetal demise is
induced when the, when the living fetus is over halfway
outside of the womb, then I think Congress --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Wouldn't the fetus be -- I
think it suffer a demise in seconds anyway.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well it may be seconds, it
may be hours; it depends on -- because even a pre --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you not agree that it
has no chance of survival, in most cases?
GENERAL CLEMENT: If we are talking about
previability then by definition chances are it won't
survive.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, that's right.
GENERAL CLEMENT: But again, I don't think
that, you know, that anything in this act --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Congress has made the
judgment that it is far preferable to ensure that fetal
demise takes place before any delivery begins. That's
the big issue.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I'm not sure if it's
whether, that's a fair, that's a fair summary. I mean,
you know, the line isn't that fetal demise has to be
done before any delivery begins, but the basic point of
this statute is to draw a bright line between a
procedure that induces fetal demise in utero and one
where the lethal act occurs when the child or the fetus,
whichever you want to call it, is more than halfway
outside of the mother's womb.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would it, would it be
lawful or would it be infanticide to deliver the fetus
entirely and just let it expire without any attempt to
keep it alive?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, in the
postviability context it would clearly be, it would
clearly be infanticide. I think in the previability
context, if you have a complete delivery but the child
isn't going to survive, I don't think it would be
infanticide to necessarily let the child expire --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. --
GENERAL CLEMENT: But I do think by contrast
if somebody tried to, with the fetus, you know,
perfectly alive and in the hours that it might have to
live, if somebody came in and ripped its head open, I
think we'd call that murder, and in fact Congress passed
another statute --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Clement, that's
not what this case is about, because I think you have
recognized, quite appropriately, that we're not talking
about whether any fetus will be preserved by this
legislation. The only question that you are raising is
whether Congress can ban a certain method of performing
an abortion. So anything about infanticide, babies, all
that, is just beside the point because what this bans is
a method of abortion. It doesn't preserve any fetus
because you just do it inside the womb instead of
outside.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Ginsberg, that's
right, but I don't think that's to trivialize Congress's
interest in maintaining a bright line between abortion
and infanticide. And the way I would illustrate it is
that line, even if you might think it has a temporal
line, in the sense that viability versus previability is
relevant, it clearly has a spatial dimension as well and
the best illustration of that I think is think about a
lawful postviability abortion. There is a problem with
the mother's health, there is a problem with her life so
it's a lawful postviability abortion. I don't think
anybody thinks that the law is or should be
indifferent to whether in that case fetal demise takes
place in utero or outside the mother's womb. The one is
abortion, the other is murder.
And I think that just recognizes that even
in the postviability context you have a very important
line which is a spatial line, and that line is basically
in womb, outside of womb, and what Congress tried to do
in this statute is to draw that line and differentiate
between one procedure where fetal demise takes place in
utero --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if this case were
limited to postviability abortions it would be a
different matter. But isn't it so that the vast
majority of these abortions are going to be performed
previability?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think that's probably
right, Justice Ginsburg, but I think the point I would
make is that Congress has an interest in maintaining the
spatial line between infanticide and abortion, even with
respect to previability fetuses and that's true for at
least two reasons.
JUSTICE BREYER: If -- I see what you're
driving at in terms of the procedure. We are focusing
on a universe where the fetus is not going to survive no
matter what, right?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So we are not
talking about anyone being born and living. They are
not going to.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, with the caveat that
the statute does apply both --
JUSTICE BREYER: And that's the area of
focus.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, Congress has said that --
the doctor, you can achieve that result through method A,
but not through method B, and you're saying Congress had
good reason for doing that. I take it Congress also
agrees that if method B, which they don't want, were to
be necessary for the safety or health of the mother, the
Constitution would require it being done. I didn't see
anything here about Congress disagreeing with that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Oh, I think that's right,
Justice Breyer. I think this, Congress --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If that's
right --
GENERAL CLEMENT: -- took this Court's
Stenberg's decision as a given --
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. Fine. Okay. They
make a finding that although we don't disagree with
that, we don't think it's ever necessary for the health
or safety of the mother. That's where we are. Now as I
look at the record, I see many, many, many doctors
telling Congress and everybody else that it is
necessary, and safe. And I see other doctors telling
Congress primarily, but in court, too, that it isn't
necessary, ever for safety.
And so if medical opinion is divided, and
I'm not advocating what I'm about to say, I just want to
know your reaction. If medical opinion is divided, why
wouldn't it be up to this Court or could this Court say
this use of this procedure, we enjoin the statute to
permit its use but only where appropriate medical
opinion finds it necessary for the safety or health of
the mother?
Now, if Congress is right, there will be no
such case so it's no problem. But if Congress is wrong,
then the doctor will be able to perform the procedure
and Congress couldn't object to that because the
Congress isn't worried about, I mean Congress, then
Congress was wrong. They agreed that we had a health or
safety exception.
GENERAL CLEMENT: With respect, Justice
Breyer, here is the problem with that way of approaching
the statute. That might be a permissible way of
approaching it if what the evidence on the other side
was, that well you know there are cause-specific reasons
why you need this procedure. There are particular
conditions where you need this procedure. But that's
not the evidence on the other side. What their doctors
say, the doctors who perform this D&X procedure, the
Dr. Chasens, the Dr. Fredericksons, what they will tell
you is that every single case the D&X procedure is
better and safer and they want to do it. And so it
doesn't make, I mean Congress can't pass a statute that
bans procedure A, and that ban doesn't apply any time a
doctor prefers procedure A.
JUSTICE BREYER: No. It just wouldn't be a
question of the doctor's preference. You would have to
refer back to prior cases, and what the prior cases talk
about including Stenberg is not that that the doctor
simply has a preference, but rather that there has to be
a significant body of medical opinion that says that
this is safer procedure and necessary for the safety of
the mother.
Now, where that's true, the Court has
previously said that the Constitution protects the
right. And I don't see anything in what Congress says
that wants to change that law. They simply have a
different view of the facts.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, they do have a
different view of the facts. And I guess the question
--
JUSTICE BREYER: So if they have a different
view of the facts, why can't we leave it up to whatever
facts develop? If there is an appropriate body of
medical opinion that does in fact believe this is
necessary for the health of the mother, so be it, and
the abortion could be performed and the injunction would
say that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: And otherwise not.
GENERAL CLEMENT: If this Court rejects the
facial challenge to this statute it is still going to be
open for litigants in the future to try to identify
specific conditions where this procedure is the safer
alternative.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me a
hypothetical instance in which where an as applied
challenge could be brought if we sustain the statutue
on its face? The procedure has to take place within 24,
48, 72 hours. How would as applied challenge take place?
You know, I read all the doctors' testimony
in this case, hundreds of pages, and I'm familiar with
the area generally. But it takes a while to get up to
speed. I don't know if you could just go to a district
judge and say I need an order, the judge would take --
would have to take many hours to understand that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Kennedy, what I
think I have in mind principally would be a
preenforcement challenge that was an as applied
challenge. And what I have in mind, you know that's
something that there is in other areas of the law,
Steffl against Thompson is an example. But what you
would have in mind is a doctor who had standing under
this Court's abortion jurisprudence would come in and
say, look, in my practice I've seen that this procedure
would be particularly useful in dealing with
preeclampsia or placental previa or some condition.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why isn't that already in
the record in the Ninth Circuit, in the Second Circuit
and in the Eighth Circuit, in the district courts,
proceedings in those circuits?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, there is an effort
to make that showing. I don't think that it's been a
successful effort to make that showing. In fact I think
if you look at the findings of the district courts in
these cases, two of the three district courts found that
there was no particular condition where the D&X abortion
was medically necessary or had marginal safe benefits --
safety benefits. In this case, the Nebraska case, the
district court identified only two conditions,
preeclampsia combined with maternal cancer, and placenta
previa. And as to those particular findings as we point
out in our reply brief, there are problems with each of
those findings.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: General Clement, I'm just
thinking, trying to imagine how an as applied challenge
would be really much different from what we have seen
already.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I don't think, I
mean, they've challenged everything including every
application of the statute and they've tried to pick off
some particular conditions. What I'm imagining is in
the future you might have, you might have additional
evidence, you might have additional experience with
doctors, and they might come in and target their
challenge to particular conditions and try to say --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But General -- General
Clement, conditions don't show up in the abstract.
Wouldn't it often be the case that it depends on the
vulnerability of the particular patient and you couldn't
bring a preenforcement challenge as to that. Maybe
it's a question of hemorrhaging, that -- it's a
combination of what the condition is and the
vulnerability of the particular patient and I don't see
how that could be tested in advance.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg my
understanding is even when you talk about an
idiosyncratic condition, I mean, the doctors who perform
these abortions perform, you know, hundreds of them a
year and they can identify those conditions and they
have names for those conditions and I think it would be
amenable to bringing a more as applied challenge.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General, do you
understand the scope of this statute to be different
than the scope of the statute at issue in Stenberg,
focusing in particular on the deliberate and intentional
language?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I certainly do, Mr. Chief
Justice, and I think that this statute, unlike the
Nebraska statute, clearly uses an anatomical landmark
approach that is based in the text of the statute and
clearly distinguishes between the D&E procedure on the
one hand and the D&X on the other hand.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't it quite
independent of the anatomical approach that the health
exception is denied? I mean that's an -- that does not
depend on the anatomical approach. The anatomical
approach may well be an answer at the facial
challenge stage, to problems of vagueness, for example.
But the health excepton problem is not affected by that.
And the difficulty that I have with your argument that
somehow the health exception issue should be left to an
as applied challenge is the statement in Stenberg, and
it's on 938.
I'm quoting: "But where substantial medical
authority supports the proposition that banning a
particular abortion procedure could endanger women's
health, Casey requires the statute to include a health
exception where the procedure is necessary in
appropriate medical judgment for the preservation --"
-- excuse me -- "of the life or health of the mother."
Now, your position, it seems to me, requires
us to do one of three things. Either we, we overrule
Stenberg in that respect, or we, we find -- I don't know
how but we might find, well, in this case, there is no
substantial medical authority, and therefore on the face
of the statute there seems to be no impediment in the
Stenberg statement. Or three, we say well, there seems
to be a tension between the showing of substantial
medical authority which occurred in the litigation in
these cases and the findings made by Congress, and under
those circumstances in effect we are required to ignore
the record in the cases and go with Congress's
apparently contrary judgment.
Which of the three do we take?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, we would urge you to
take any one of them.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Take all three.
(Laughter.)
JUDGE SOUTER: No, but seriously --
GENERAL CLEMENT: But in fairness, I mean,
you know, we have an obligation to defend the statute.
So our first, you know, our first effort would be to say
we distinguish the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, but the problem, I
guess -- focus the problem this way. The, the Stenberg
opinion talks about substantial medical authority as
triggering this requirement for a statutory element.
That problem is not focused simply by saying Congress
made some findings and the district court made other
findings and Congress should prevail.
The fact is the substantial medical judgment
finding I would suppose is satisfied by the, by the
record in the district courts in these cases. This is
not one doctor's idiosyncratic judgment and a court can
reasonably find, it seems to me, that there is
substantial medical judgment. If we are going to defer,
as you say we should defer to Congress, haven't we got
to overrule that statement?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I don't think so, Justice
Souter. Let me just -- I'd like to save some time for
rebuttal, but let me try to answer it this way, which is
our way of looking at Stenberg is Stenberg really
doesn't address what you do when there are congressional
findings. And there is some tension between Stenberg
and Turner on this, because Stenberg seems to suggest,
well, when there is a doubt, the kind of doubt that
would normally get you past a summary judgment, you
defer to the doctors, and Turner seems to suggest when
you have a doubt, conflicting evidence, the kind of
doubt that might get you past summary judgment normally,
you defer to Congress. And it has to be one or the
other. It can't go both ways, can't go opposite ways,
and we would say resolve that tension, but when there is
congressional findings, something that you obviously
didn't have to confront in Stenberg, defer to the
congressional approach.
If Stenberg means something contrary, that
even in the face of congressional findings that you have
to defer to a minority opinion of doctors and, you know,
kind of invert what would normally be the way of
approaching it, we think then that would be inconsistent
with this Court's decision in Casey, among others, and
you should revisit Stenberg to that effect, to that
extent.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Miss Smith.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PRISCILLA SMITH
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MS. SMITH: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
The Government throughout this case has
quarreled with the plaintiff's statement of Stenberg and
Congress quarreled clearly with the district court
findings, but their real argument here is with this
Court in the Court's ruling in Stenberg, particularly in
light of the congressional findings that are, that are
frankly unsupported by either the congressional record
or the additional evidence presented to the district
courts. The only course here that preserves the
independence of the judiciary, that exemplifies the
importance of stare decisis, not to mention the only
course that will protect women from needless risks of
uterine perforation, infertility, sepsis and hemorrhage,
is to hold this act unconstitutional.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me -- I
didn't find it in the materials. Maybe the statistics
aren't available. In the cases where intact D&E or D&X
are performed in the period I guess, what, 16 through
20, 21st, 22nd weeks, in how many of those instances, do
you have any idea, in how many of those instances is
there serious health risk to the mother that requires
the procedure as opposed to simply being an elective
procedure? Are there any statistics on that?
MS. SMITH: No. In terms of the underlying
medical conditions there really aren't, Your Honor, and
it varies dramatically according to the practice of the
physician. If a physician is in a high risk OBGYN
practice, he or she is much more likely to encounter
patients with serious underlying medical conditions such
as the ones that the doctors have testified about in
this case, the liver disease, kidney disease, heart,
cardiovascular disease, cancer of the placenta, bleeding
placenta previa, all of these issues and underlying
conditions that makes the impact and the risks that are
reduced by the intact D&E particularly important.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We have no evidence
either in the record before the Court or Congress as to
how often that situation arises?
MS. SMITH: No, we don't, Your Honor. We
know that in some practices it's quite frequent, in some
practices it's not as frequent because those are mostly
hospital-based practices. But on the other hand,
there's extensive evidence in this case, much more
evidence frankly, Your Honor, Justice Breyer, than there
was in the Stenberg case, of the, of the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I have just one other
question that, it's generally related to the first.
If there is substantial evidence that other procedures
or alternate procedures are available, alternate to D&X,
alternate to intact D&E, is your response that, although
they're available as a matter of science, as a matter of,
of medical expertise, they are not available because
hospitals don't allow the patients to be admitted? I
was going to ask that same question to the Government,
because there is some indication in the record that
certain hospitals just don't admit patients for this
purpose, which is -- goes back to my earlier question.
I was wondering if that's because it's surely elective.
MS. SMITH: Because it's what sir?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because it's purely
elective and not medically necessary.
MS. SMITH: No, Your Honor. Hospitals,
many, many hospitals throughout the United States refuse
to provide any abortions whatsoever as just a blanket
rule. There are some that will provide abortions in
certain, in certain circumstances where the woman is
obtaining the abortion because of a certain medical
condition. Then there are women who are obtaining an
abortion because they have chosen that that's the best
course for them who also have underlying medical
conditions. So if you're a woman who has chosen to
obtain an abortion and you have an underlying cardiac
disease, for example -- we had a case like this in
Louisiana. The hospital refused to do the abortion
because her chance of dying from the underlying medical
condition was not over 50 percent. So the availability
of hospital services is somewhat unrelated to this case,
but it is, it is quite limited in some circumstances.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it might be related
in the sense that the Government's argument that there
are alternate mechanisms is not a practical alternative.
I was going to ask the Government about that. On the
other hand, the fact that any number of hospitals don't
allow the procedure is also indicated, indication that
there is a medical opinion against it.
MS. SMITH: No, not at all, Your Honor. The
medical opinion in those cases is against abortion
whatsoever and a refusal to use one's facilities to
provide any abortion --
JUSTICE BREYER: So in terms of --
MS. SMITH: -- of any kind, not about any
particular procedure.
I'm sorry, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't like your
characterization and the Government's of the state of
the record. I asked my law clerk basically to go look
up every statement that was made in four forums. The
first was the first Stenberg case. Second was Congress.
Third is this, one of the cases here; and the fourth is
the other case here. Now, my own impression of that is
if you're talking about the medical need for such a
case, that is for intact D&E, that there is a risk
attached if you don't use it in some instances. The
fewest number of statements for that proposition was in
the first Stenberg.
MS. SMITH: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: More statements in
Congress, more statements that you -- doctors who say, I
need this procedure for safety.
MS. SMITH: There are many more in this --
JUSTICE BREYER: There are many more in this
case than there were -- in these two cases there are
many more than there were in Congress and in Congress
there are many more than they were in first Stenberg.
MS. SMITH: That's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, if we look to the
other side of the coin, the doctors who say, no, it
isn't safe, there I'd have to say there are probably
many more in Congress than there are -- who say it isn't
safe, there are probably many more in Congress; and then
there are some in these cases, too; and there are hardly
any in Stenberg, not too many.
MS. SMITH: Well, there is --
JUSTICE BREYER: It was against you, in
other words.
MS. SMITH: There are many letters written
to Congress that are in the record. In terms of live
witnesses, Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MS. SMITH: -- there were in Congress eight
live witnesses that testified.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, so I'm left with
a record where I guess you have a subjective
characterization that there is at least as much evidence
in these cases supporting you and as much in Congress
supporting you as there was in the first Stenberg case.
But Congress made this finding, so what am I to do with
the finding?
MS. SMITH: Right. Well, the important
point, Your Honor, is that even if the Court applied the
highest level of deference under Turner, the findings
would be rejected and must be rejected, as all three
district courts held, because they're simply
unreasonable even under a Turner standard.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Smith, was the
statement of the American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists before Congress?
MS. SMITH: Yes, Your Honor, it was, as was
the brief that was filed, the amicus brief that was
filed in this case in Stenberg was before Congress, and
also testimony from numerous physicians in the form of
letter. In terms of live witnesses, there were simply
not that many.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll give you an
extra 30 seconds. Proceed.
MS. SMITH: That's fine, Your Honor. I've
lost track of my train of thought, though, I think.
I think what I was saying was there were
eight witnesses who testified live.
JUSTICE BREYER: My question basically I
think you might have been going after is, I was saying
that I agreed with you in that there is more evidence
supporting your side in these cases than there was
before Congress, than there was in first Stenberg.
MS. SMITH: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: But still there was a
finding in Congress and there wasn't a finding in the
Nebraska legislature, and so does that fact of the
finding being in Congress and not in the Nebraska
legislature -- what kind of legal difference does that
make?
MS. SMITH: And Your Honor, what I would say
in this case, it makes none. While it's an extremely
interesting academic question about the level of
deference that should be applied in this kind of
circumstance, here it really is academic because under,
even under the Turner standard, if applied in a way that
Turner actually applied deference, to carefully review
the findings in light of the evidence in Congress and
again in light of the evidence in the district court --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you this
question about what you think we should do. If I
thought the evidence did support the conclusion that
it's never medically necessary, it merely -- the
evidence merely supports the proposition that a doctor
has to be a lot more careful if he goes one way rather
than the other because there are more risks involved in
one procedure rather than the other, would that be
sufficient to support the -- I can see the argument that
the intact delivery may have less risk of complications
and so forth without it not necessarily being absolutely
necessary.
MS. SMITH: Well, I think there is, there's
been some confusion about the word "necessary" and it's
been used sometimes to talk about whether there are
other procedures that could be used, as opposed to the
determination that it is the safest procedure that
reduces significantly the risk of very serious
complications, not the risks of minor complications.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess that gets
back to the point earlier. I mean, do you agree with
the discussion earlier that this act is not going to
prevent abortions?
MS. SMITH: No, not at all, Your Honor. I
-- the issue of the scope and breadth of the law is -- I
think the evidence clearly shows that this is a very
broad law that applies to D&E abortions and, contrary to
what the Solicitor General said about the intent of
abortions, abortion providers like Dr. Vibhakar and
others, they actually, their intent is always to remove
the fetus as intact as possible, and the district courts
have recognized that as an intent that's covered under
the terms of the act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What degree of
marginal impact on safety do you think is necessary to
override the State's interest? I mean, if you have
complications under the D&E procedure in say 10 percent
of the cases, complications under D&X in 9.99 percent of
the cases, is that marginal benefit in safety enough to
override the State's articulated interest?
MS. SMITH: I don't believe a marginal
benefit in safety is enough and I don't believe that's
what we have here. The testimony from over, from at
least 11 board-certified OBGYNs, from the American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, is that the
reduction in risk is significant and that it reduces the
risk of serious complications, such as uterine
perforation, which can lead to hysterectomy and
infertility.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I thought your
submission earlier was that we don't have any record
evidence about how often the complications arise, so
it's hard to get a handle on exactly what the difference
is in terms of safety under your submission.
MS. SMITH: We don't have a quantification
of the safety. What we what we have is the clinical
experience of major leading physicians in the field,
who've testified that they've used both procedures. In
fact, many of them have testified that they perforated
uteruses in non-intact D&Es and they've never perforated
a uterus in an intact D&E. And that in fact is borne
out by the Chasen study, a very small study with very
small numbers, but it shows all the serious
complications are in the non-intact group.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If we could go back to
the first question that the Chief asked you, you said
yes, it will prevent abortions because of this uncertain
line between the D&X and the D&E. Is there a way that
Congress could have written the statute that would have
insulated the physician who's performing a D&E?
MS. SMITH: Absolutely, Your Honor. I think
that the blueprint that this Court laid out, that
certainly is suggested in Justice O'Connor's concurrence
in Stenberg, was rejected by Congress. She references
three statutes, that if they had included a health
exception, she thinks would have been constitutional.
They all include the word intact.
I think there's another narrower
construction of the act too that is possible. Adding in
the word intact, reading in the word intact, it seems to
me, is not a reasonable interpretation of the statute as
it is, but certainly Congress could have done that and
other States have done it, but Congress set out not to
do that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I ask you to focus on
one particular problem that I think is implicated by
Justice Ginsburg's question. If I understood you
correctly a moment ago, and I think this is in your
briefs too, you said that the definitional problem is
that doctors always set out to do an intact procedure if
they can, because it involves less risk to the mother
from, from acts performed inside. And if that's the
case, then it would be, I guess in the real world, very
difficult for Congress to define a difference between
D&E and D&X, because the intention is always, as you
understand it, to have an intact result.
Your brother on the other side, the
Solicitor General says there certainly is testimony to
the effect that that is not so. That doctors who intend
to perform a D&E simply intend at the beginning to have
a lesser degree of dilation which will force them to do
the D&E and not have a totally intact procedure.
Would you comment on what I think is the
factual difference between you and the Solicitor General
there?
MS. SMITH: Yes, Your Honor. The -- the
problem with the law is that because it's not limited to
intact, it would in fact cover the procedures that are
performed by physicians who intend to perform a
procedure as intact as possible but simply don't expect
that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I understand that.
MS. SMITH: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But could you start simply
with the factual predicate for your argument and his
argument. You seem to be starting from, if I understand
the two of you correctly, you seem to be starting from
basically different factual assumptions. Could you,
could you start by commenting on that?
MS. SMITH: Yes. The doctors perform the
same dilation protocols whether they are going to
perform a D&E or an intact D&E, and that's true for
Dr. Chasen and Dr. Westhoff, who performed both intact
and non-intact procedures.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought the
evidence was that you're looking for a different degree
of dilation if you're intending to perform D&E than if
-- and you're looking for a greater degree if you're
intending to perform a D&X.
MS. SMITH: It doesn't play out that way.
Doctors do have different dilation protocols, but they
are often looking for as much dilation as they can get.
On the other hand --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is your submission
that there aren't different dilation protocols if you're
intending a D&E and if you're intending a D&X, they're
the same?
MS. SMITH: It varies by doctor. For
example, Dr. Carhart uses the same dilation protocol
whether he's going to do an intact or a non-intact.
Other doctors might try to do more dilation. And the
doctors, importantly, can't control the amount of
dilation they get, so a decision happens.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, they may not be able
to control it in an absolute sense, but can't they go
about it in a way that would tend to produce less rather
than more dilation?
MS. SMITH: Not --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It can't guarantee results,
but couldn't they at least start with a, I don't know
how you put it, a procedure that would be likely to
produce less rather than more, and hence come within the
safe harbor, if you will, of the statute?
MS. SMITH: Well, they are always looking
for a minimal amount of dilation. Then people who chose
to do another day of dilation, for example, that could
add additional dilation. But for the first day of
dilation, no, Your Honor. They don't seek more or less
over one day. They might do a second day or --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you say they don't,
but my question is, can they? And the record may not
show this. I'm not asking you to answer the impossible,
but do we have evidence that would indicate that they
can or that they can't?
MS. SMITH: Not in the first day of
dilation, no. They can't control how much dilation is
going to occur. They need a minimal amount and they are
not going to shoot for less than that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Can you tell us where to
look in the record for the evidence on that?
MS. SMITH: Each doctor testifies about
their own dilation protocols, Your Honor, and I believe
that's in the Eighth Circuit appendix. Those -- those
-- portions of that testimony, and are cited more
specifically in the Eighth Circuit briefs, which goes
more into the factual detail, Your Honor, but I don't
have the cites right now. I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If there were a health
exception --
MS. SMITH: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The health of the woman,
would that obviate the vagueness and overbreadth
problems that you bring up? Because then after we say
to the doctor, you put the health of your patients first
and if you think that it's riskier for her health to do
it one way than another way, then you pick the safer way.
If you had that, then wouldn't the concerns about
overbreadth fade?
MS. SMITH: Not if this is not limited to
intact, Your Honor, because then you would be limiting
D&E abortions, which is 95 percent of all abortions, to
circumstances where the doctor could prove that it was
in fact the safest procedure. And we've had doctors
testify in trial, for example, that they refused to
describe even intact -- regular D&Es to their patients
because they believe induction is always safer. So
those doctors, I think would still be at risk, and it
would put 95 percent of second trimester abortions at
risk in that case, to prosecution for performing a D&E
when you should have been performing an induction
procedure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think the, on
the same issue I think, that the addition of the
deliberately and intentionally language in the
congressional act addresses that concern?
MS. SMITH: No, Your Honor, because actually
that same language is in the Stenberg, the Nebraska
statute. It also was targeted at deliberately
intentionally. I do think that if there is a
construction that would narrow the law to a limited
amount of intact D&Es, if you read the "for the purpose
of" language in the statute, to be performing an overt
act for the sole purpose of completing delivery, then --
or rather -- I'm sorry. For the purpose of performing
an overt act that causes fetal demise, that does not
facilitate delivery of the statute -- of the fetus.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's what I was
wondering, because --
MS. SMITH: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose, this might help,
suppose the physician testifies that I wanted to do a
non-intact, an in utero D&E, that that's, that was my
intent, that's what I wanted to do, that's what I always
want to do. In this case I had an intact delivery and
had no other choice. Are you saying that we could
interpret the statute to say that that is not the
prohibited criminal intent, he is immune from
prosecution in that case?
MS. SMITH: No. I don't believe that's the
line that could be drawn, Your Honor, because anyone who
does a D&E is intending to remove the fetus as intact as
possible, and always can have the intent to go to the
anatomical landmark that's here. I'm suggesting a
different interpretation that uses the "for the purpose
of" language where it says for the purpose of performing
an overt act that the person knows will kill the
partially delivered living fetus. If that language was
interpreted to be for the sole purpose of performing
fetal demise at that point, rather than what the doctors
do, which is perform the action that causes fetal demise
in order to facilitate delivery of the fetus. So if
it's not to facilitate delivery of the fetus --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, give me one instance
in which your proposed interpretation would work in the
real world.
MS. SMITH: Well, there are allegations in
the Congressional Record, for example, in reference --
in Justice Thomas' dissent by Nurse Schaffer, Dr. Pamela
Smith, about circumstances where the physician actually
holds the fetus in the woman's body in order to cause
fetal demise, rather than causing fetal demise because
it's an integral part of removal of the fetus from the
woman's uterus. And those circumstances would be banned
under that interpretation.
But I want to get back to the Turner point,
if I may for a minute, the issue of deference to
congressional finding.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, just on that last
point, I mean, we are interested of course in different
interpretations, but it just seems to me that your
interpretation would have very little practical effect.
MS. SMITH: Well, it would -- it would ban
certainly a certain type of intact procedure that was
discussed, and I think is the image many people have of
"partial-birth abortion" frankly, that this is something
that's done gratuitously, not as an integral part of
making this procedure the safest for the woman, and
avoiding instrumentation and avoiding perforation and
hysterectomies, which are serious complications that
though rare, when they occur, they are catastrophic and
life changing and disastrous. So the numbers are not
high of any complications, but the complications when
they occur are, are devastating. And this is what the
doctors are experiencing when they perform intact D&Es,
that they are not having these types of complications.
So -- if I can move to the deference point,
I would like to talk a little bit about deference to
congressional findings because there is significant
authority from this Court of course, saying that where
there are danger signs of constitutional risks, as the
Court recently said in Randall versus Sorrell, that the
Court must independently and carefully review
congressional findings. And the Court has rejected
findings that attempted to change either by findings of
fact or legal findings, that attempted to change a
constitutional standard.
But in any case, the findings in this case
are simply unreasonable and not supported by the
evidence. If you go to the findings themselves, the
ultimate finding in 14o, which claims that it is
actually relying on the preceding findings, it says,
"for these reasons, Congress finds that partial birth
abortion is never medically indicated," and then you go
backwards and look at the reasons. The reasons are the
findings that are not defended by the Government, that
were not defended by the Government witnesses and that
are blatantly false, except for perhaps one of them.
There are findings of, that partial-birth
abortion poses serious risks. The Government witnesses
agreed that this was not true.
Their findings that partial-birth abortion
is not taught in medical schools. Of course, we know
that is simply not true, it's an integral part of
abortion training at major medical institutions like
Cornell, Columbia, Yale, NYU, Northwestern, etc.
It says that abortion, partial-birth
abortion is a disfavored practice among abortion
providers. That is absolutely not true.
And it says that there are no comparative
studies. We know now that is not true because the
Chasen study has come out, and is the first study of its
kind to try to evaluate the differences between intact
and non-intact. It is still true that there are no
controlled studies, there is no randomized clinical
trial, but if that were the standard, no new and safer
abortion procedures could ever be developed.
Turning back, Your Honors, to the health issue.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could I ask you just
one thing?
MS. SMITH: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The statute, of
course, refers to both feet first and vertex deliveries.
How common is the vertex delivery in the D&X?
MS. SMITH: Not very common. Not very
common, Your Honor. It would occur in circumstances
where there is a significant fetal anomaly and some kind
of a, something called a sides, or another type of fetal
anomaly where there is a distension of the abdomen, but
it's very rare.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And in giving your
arguments toward the safety benefits of the D&X, I
couldn't understand why they wouldn't also apply to the
total delivery of the fetus in a vertex delivery
situation.
MS. SMITH: I'm sorry. I don't know if I
understand.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, my
understanding is that the vertex, the skull and head are
already outside the mother.
MS. SMITH: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the objection in
the feet first is that you want fewer instrument
passes and so on.
MS. SMITH: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But in that case,
it's not the skull itself that is preventing the
delivery of the fetus.
MS. SMITH: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your arguments
about why the D&X is safer than feet first, wouldn't
that apply in the case of total delivery of the fetus as
well? In other words, if you want as much of the fetus
intact and out as possible, why wait, stop it halfway?
Wouldn't the safety argument suggest delivery of the
fetus?
MS. SMITH: Yes, but these are circumstances
where the fetus can't be delivered. That's the point,
Your Honor, is that the fetus is obstructed and so the
overt act that takes place is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In the case of a
vertex delivery, where is the obstruction?
MS. SMITH: The obstruction would come from
a distension of the abdomen, usually from a significant
fetal anomaly like a sides, which is, this is a serious
anomaly. It's lethal anomalies that I was talking
about. And in those circumstances, an overt act would
need to be performed that would in fact cause fetal
demise before the fetus could be, the delivery could be
continued.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that your
argument is that there is always a constitutional right
to use what the physician thinks is the safest
procedure.
MS. SMITH: No, Your Honor. I think the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I inferred that from your
comments.
MS. SMITH: I don't think so, Your Honor.
What, what the Court held in Stenberg in applying the
appropriate medical judgment standard of Casey, was that
there had to be a substantial body of medical opinion,
an objective standard that in fact supports the use of
that procedure. And that both, that balances concerns
against protecting a woman's health with a concern of
unfettered discretion, which the Court has rejected.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So then, you think there
are instances in which the State can require that a
procedure be used, even if it's not the safest
procedure?
MS. SMITH: I'm sorry. I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So then, the --
MS. SMITH: Yeah.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The obverse of the
proposition I put at first, it must be true that there
are some instances in which the State can prohibit a
procedure even if it is the safest procedure.
MS. SMITH: That's true, Your Honor, as long
as it doesn't pose an undue burden on the woman, which
as you know, certainly the circumstance with the D&E,
which is 95 percent of abortions, under the Stenberg
ruling.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can I just follow up
on that?
MS. SMITH: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't understand
that. In other words, the fact that it's not the safest
procedure does not itself constitute an undue burden?
In other words, under Justice Kennedy's hypothetical --
MS. SMITH: I don't understand what you
mean.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He said that the
State can prohibit something even if it is the safest
procedure, and your answer was so long as it doesn't --
MS. SMITH: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- pose an undue
burden. And I was just following up to say that so, in
some circumstances, prohibiting what you regard is the
safest procedure does not itself constitute an undue
burden.
MS. SMITH: No. I understood Justice
Kennedy's question to be, could the State prohibit what
it thinks is not the safest. And under the Stenberg
ruling, although the Court hasn't addressed that
question directly, under Stenberg what the Court has
said is, the Court can ban procedures only where there
is not significant medical authority supporting their
use as the safest procedure in some circumstances. So
perhaps I misunderstood your question.
But the Court has not ever addressed the
question, can we ban a procedure that's not the safest.
I think the ruling in Stenberg would say well, there has
to be significant medical authority that in some
circumstances it is the safest. The alternative
argument would be, but, if it is the procedure that's
used in 95 percent of the cases, or a vast majority of
the cases, and banning it would thereby deny women the
right to get an abortion and be a substantial obstacle
in their path in obtaining a legal abortion, that would
be another reason why you couldn't ban it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Miss Smith.
MS. SMITH: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General Clement, you
have two minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
GENERAL CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Let me make just a couple of points in rebuttal.
I'd like to start with Justice Kennedy's
question, about whether or not there are going to be
alternative methods available to end the pregnancy as a
practical matter. And the answer to that is there will
always be an alternative available as a practical matter.
The alternative will always be the D&E procedure, which
the district court in this case called the gold standard.
And the best evidence of that, Justice Kennedy, is that
their own witnesses like Dr. Chasen, for example, when
they set out to perform the D&X procedure, they are only
successful about 33 percent of the time. What happens
in the other 67 percent of the cases is they actually,
even though they tried to perform a D&X, will perform a
D&E. And so all of the clinics that provide D&X also
necessarily provide D&E, because the D&E is what they
end up with if they are not able to remove the fetus
intact. So in every single case, there are some, you
know, the induction procedure has to be done in a
hospital, but the D&X and D&E procedures are both
equally available in clinics, so no woman as either a
theoretical matter or a practical matter, is going to be
denied a safe alternative to end her pregnancy.
I wanted to pick up on Justice Souter's
question as well. You asked for factual citations in
the record on this dispute between us. I think the
record is really overwhelmingly in our favor. I point
you to Dr. Fitzhugh, who's one of the plaintiffs on this
side, 135a. He says he doesn't try for intact delivery
in every case because it would necessitate a second
round of dilation, a second round of laminarias, so he
doesn't do the second round, he gets dismemberment.
Dr. Knorr, another one of the plaintiffs, at page 142a,
he says the procedure would require greater dilation.
And if I could just finish on the citations,
Dr. Vibhakar, who does dismemberment 100 percent of the
time, 148a -- all of these are in the petition appendix
of the district court opinion -- Dr. Cranen explains his
procedure at 174a to 177a. Thank you
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:07 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
address 27:6 42:1 52:1 asked 32:5 38:5 10:21 24:18
54:2 addresses 43:19 16:25 assuming 4:6 9:24 17:6 32:5
12:6 14:7 11:14 apparently 26:1 40:7 basis 11:23
admit 30:15 APPEARAN... attached 32:12 becoming 12:8
17:3,19 admitted 30:12 1:15 attempt 15:13 beginning 39:14
22:11,24 advance 24:2 appendix 42:12 attempted 46:23 begins 14:25
31:1,3,6,8 advocating 19:9 54:22 46:24 15:5
36:18 ago 39:2 application ATTORNEY behalf 1:17,19
47:7,13 agree 14:15 23:13 1:4 2:4,7,10 3:7
36:10 applied 12:24 atypical 4:23 28:7 53:9
48:5 agreed 19:21 21:19,22 22:6 authority 25:8 believe 21:7
53:1 34:21 47:14 23:8 24:9 25:5 25:18,22 26:14 37:5,6 42:11
4:11 5:1 AL 1:7 35:12 availability benefit 37:3,6
17:12,14 ALBERTO 1:3 applies 12:14,22 31:10 benefits 22:25
30:23,24 alive 15:14,24 36:16 available 3:22 23:1 48:20
allegations apply 4:9 18:6 29:1 30:8,10 best 16:21 31:3
43:5,5,12 45:10 20:11 48:21 30:11 53:14,16 53:19
allow 5:12 30:12 49:15 54:6 better 20:9
55:3 alternate 30:8,8 approach 24:18 a.m 1:14 3:2 birth 47:6
31:15 approaching B blatantly 47:11
47:22
alternatives appropriate 16:9 blurred 4:1
amenable 24:9 25:12 50:18 30:16 36:10 37:8
14:22 37:8 16:5 48:6 45:14 50:19
28:23 amici 9:23 area 18:7 21:25 backwards 47:8 born 13:2 18:3
38:18 amicus 34:8 areas 22:8 balances 50:21 borne 37:25
44:2,4 amount 41:6,19 argument 1:13 ban 4:1,8,16 breadth 36:14
49:23 42:6 43:25 2:2,5,8 3:3,6 5:12 16:8 Breyer 7:22
amply 3:19 9:14,17 25:3 20:11 46:1 8:17,19 9:5
34:9 35:7 39:7 change 20:24 10:14,16 15:16 completing 44:2
43:13 44:13,17 46:23,24 15:17 16:20 complications
54:3,15 55:1,2 32:4 33:18 Clement 1:16 38:3 46:8,11
7:12,17,21,24 7:19 38:1 4:3,12 5:8 7:13 concern 43:19
20:15,15 22:23 53:20 10:11,20 11:3 concerns 43:1
52:4 Casey 25:10 40:14,23 43:16 19:23 21:1,11 condition 22:14
27:25 50:18 48:7,10,19 21:13 22:4,19 22:24 23:25
20:2 15:8,18,20 48:3 29:18 31:5
caveat 18:5 chose 14:4 41:19 54:6 27:12
6:8,17 Circuit 7:9,9,9 College 34:5 confronted 9:14
30:15,25,25 circuits 22:18 combination 3:20,24 4:7,9
24:15 38:12,21 circumstances come 4:24 22:11 10:2,7,12,16
51:12 31:12 43:6 47:25 50:1 11:25 12:2,25
6:2,12 7:11 49:20 50:5 comment 39:17 16:1,8 17:7,18
8:8 challenge 21:14 52:5,15,21 commenting 18:10,12,13,17
10:5 21:20,22 22:6 citations 54:10 40:8 18:19 19:4,6
16:4 22:7 23:8,18 54:20 comments 50:15 19:16,17,19,20
19:17 23:23 24:9 cited 9:20 42:13 common 4:5,10 19:20,21 20:10
21:24 25:1,5 cites 42:16 48:12,13,14 20:23 25:23
challenged claims 47:4 comparative 26:16,18,25
28:10 23:12 clarify 12:12 47:23 27:14 28:12
30:2,4 chance 14:16 classically 14:7 compare 7:23 29:21 32:7,17
32:7,9 31:9 clear 3:20 5:23 10:1,2 32:22,22 33:3
33:20 chances 14:18 clearly 10:7,10 complete 15:18 33:4,11,14,19
34:6,9 46:18 47:16 41:23 42:4 deny 52:24 42:11 54:16,19
35:1,3 48:11 deal 4:20 Department dimension 16:20
38:8,13 court 1:1,13 3:9 dealing 22:13 1:17 directly 52:12
39:8 4:16 5:23 7:12 decision 18:23 depend 24:24 disagree 18:25
8:22 9:7,9,10 27:25 41:7 depends 14:14 disagreeing
7:8 10:23 11:1,4,5 defended 47:9 describe 43:9 discretion 50:23
27:6,17 11:10,13,16,19 47:10 despite 8:21 discussed 46:3
28:15 11:21,21,24 defer 26:24,25 detail 42:15 discussing 9:7
43:19 19:6,11,11 27:11,14,18,22 determination discussion 36:11
46:17 20:21 21:13 deference 3:14 36:6 disease 29:15,15
23:2 26:17,22 8:13,16,18,19 determinations 29:16 31:7
25:25 29:21 33:24 11:17 33:25 determining 47:21
50:17,23 52:11 deficit 9:6 46:12 54:17,21
20:22 53:18 54:23 definition 14:18 developed 48:5 disregard 11:1
38:15 22:17,22,23 degree 6:17 5:11,20 35:4 distension 48:17
50:10 26:21 28:18 36:23 39:15 37:17 39:8,18 50:2
43:24 Court's 4:13 deliberate 24:13 6:13 48:1 26:11
27:25 28:14 43:18,22 4:19 6:20,21 24:19
11:1,4,24 Cranen 54:23 49:21 13:20 17:13 9:20 10:3,23
27:20 credibility 11:22 deliveries 48:11 20:25 21:2,4 10:25 11:4,5
12:2 delivery 13:8 23:9 24:11 11:10,13,16,19
6:24 7:14 35:24 44:2,5 44:23 45:23 22:1,17,22,23
critical 9:12 48:12,22,22 17:8 28:12,17 34:2
D 15:4,7 17:1,9 dilates 6:7 19:18 20:12,16
28:18,21 danger 46:19 denied 24:23 41:11,19,20,21 7:5,7,10 8:1,2
45:23 day 41:20,21,23 54:8 41:22 42:5,5 8:5,6,9,11 19:3
20:5,6 39:9 40:18,25 28:17 29:20 45:5,6 fewest 32:13
23:17 48:12,20 49:14 30:2,3,7 33:18 facilities 31:22 field 37:21
27:11,22 53:21,24,25 34:21 35:13,14 fact 6:20 9:15 filed 34:8,9
32:17 54:5 35:17,19 36:15 16:1 21:7 find 12:4,9,21
39:4,13 D.C 1:9,17 37:16 40:15 22:21 26:19 25:16,17 26:23
41:5,6 42:2,9 47:3 31:17 35:2 28:25
45:3 E 53:19 37:23,25 39:22 finding 8:13
E 2:1 3:1,1 evidentiary 7:17 43:7 46:24 9:18,19 10:12
36:10,11 37:15 37:17 factfinding 3:15 11:22 12:3
effectively 11:5 41:3,20 43:8 11:16 39:18 47:4
eight 9:22 33:14 6:10 fade 43:2 11:16,24 12:2
34:18 exception 8:24 fair 7:24 15:3,3 12:4,5,7,9,10
20:7,7 Eighth 7:8 22:17 19:22 24:23 fairness 26:8 12:17,17,25
40:12,12 42:12,14 25:4,11 38:15 false 47:11 22:22 23:4,6
45:12 either 13:24 42:18 familiar 3:14 25:23 26:17,18
54:13,18 14:2 25:15 excepton 25:2 21:24 27:7,17,21
28:16 29:21 excuse 25:13 far 14:24 28:13,15 33:25
elected 8:15 28:19 feet 48:11 49:6 46:23,23,24
24:19 ends 6:23 expert 5:25 7:14 45:15 48:15,16 first 3:4 5:10
30:9 enjoin 19:12 expertise 30:11 50:3,6 9:16 11:12
36:16 ensure 14:24 experts 6:11 fetus 4:6 5:16 26:10,10 30:6
38:7,9 entirely 15:13 expire 15:13,20 12:6,9,18,19 32:7,7,14,23
entitled 3:24 explains 54:23 12:24 13:2,17 33:20 34:23
11:17 extensive 30:2 13:24 14:5,9 38:5 41:21
44:11 equally 54:6 extent 28:2 14:11 15:8,12 42:4,23 47:25
51:12 erroneous 10:7 extra 34:14 15:23 16:6,11 48:11 49:6,14
54:1 ESQ 1:16,19 2:3 extremely 35:7 17:24 36:20 51:7
2:6,9 44:5,20 45:1,5 Fitzhugh 54:13
46:13 evaluate 48:1 face 21:21 25:18 48:22 49:11,15 focus 9:9 12:13
7:2 9:15 evidence 3:17,20 faces 9:17 50:7 54:2 38:24
22:24 6:21 9:3 10:23 facial 21:14 fetuses 12:7 focused 9:10
29:1 11:3 20:1,5 24:25 13:18 17:20 26:16
37:2 38:7 23:16 27:12 facilitate 44:5 fewer 8:9 49:6 focusing 17:23
24:3,10,15 group 38:3 hemorrhaging image 46:3
11:10,10 16:3 17:11,17 H 36:13 38:10 importance
23:19 24:3 half 6:8 13:25 39:20 41:22 28:20
32:6 42:17,20 halfway 5:16 43:20 44:19 12:12 17:5
46:4 given 18:23 49:17 Honors 48:6 41:6
7:2,19 48:19 hand 24:20,20 54:5 impression 32:9
25:25 27:15,15 40:22 30:15,21,22 13:19
44:21 47:3,7 happens 41:7 hospital-based 25:10 38:16
17:14,24 18:4 health 3:13 8:24 hundreds 21:24 27:24
26:24 16:23 18:15 24:6 independence
42:6,7 53:13 25:13 29:5 46:8 independently
4:3,12 gold 53:18 42:23,24 48:6 37:12 indicate 42:2
7:13 8:17 Gonzales 1:3 3:4 50:22 indicated 31:18
10:6,11,20 good 18:13 hear 3:3 I 47:7
12:11 Government heard 3:11 idea 10:15 29:4 indication 30:14
13:5,11 28:10 30:13 11:19 identified 23:2 31:18
14:1 31:16 47:9,10 hearings 3:10 identify 21:15 indifferent 17:1
47:13 7:8 24:7 induced 14:6,9
Government's heart 29:15 idiosyncratic induces 15:7
17:16 31:14 32:4 held 3:10 9:7 24:5 26:22 inducing 4:17
gratuitously 34:2 50:17 ignore 25:24 induction 43:10
21:1,11 46:5 help 44:9 illustrate 16:17 43:14 54:4
22:4,19 greater 6:17 hemorrhage illustration infanticide 4:2
40:17 54:19 28:22 16:21 15:12,17,20
17:19 17:18 36:25 13:21,23 14:2 kidney 29:15 8:15 9:10 35:2
interestingly 8:5 17:22 18:2,7 35:4,9 48:1,15 lesser 39:15
interpretation 21:4,12,18 10:15,15,20 50:4
45:8,18,25 23:19 24:3,10 19:10 20:2 letters 33:10
50:25 45:24 26:12 27:2 24:6 25:16 35:8
interpreted 45:2 28:4,8,24 26:9,10 27:22 life 16:23 25:13
introduced 7:17 30:19 31:13,24 47:16,24 48:24 light 28:15
involves 4:5 34:19,25 35:15 L 43:3,24
32:11 issue 11:14 39:1 40:1,3,14 laminaria 6:16 15:4,6 16:16
36:20 13:10,11,13 40:23 41:8,13 laminarias 16:18,19 17:6
38:16,19 15:1 24:12 41:24 42:8,17 54:16 17:6,6,8,19
39:4,10 25:4 36:14 42:20 43:16 landmark 24:17 38:7 44:19
43:17 45:20 44:6,9 45:7,12 44:22 lines 8:4
41:4 48:6 45:22 48:7,10 language 12:6 litigants 21:15
issues 29:17 48:19 49:1,5,9 24:14 43:18,21 litigation 25:22
46:2 49:13,24 50:9 44:1,24 45:1 little 45:25
48:1 J 50:14,24 51:4 large 5:6 46:16
54:3,14 judge 22:2,2 51:6,15,18,21 Laughter 26:6 live 15:25 33:11
47:17 judgment 3:24 53:3,6,10,12 22:8 32:5 liver 29:15
26:1,19,22,24 43:24 18:3 45:1
judiciary 28:19 keep 15:14 16:22,24 51:10 52:1
jurisprudence Kennedy 7:7,13 lead 37:12 look 5:22 8:3,4
44:12,16 Justice 1:17 3:3 23:7 28:24 leave 21:5 22:12,22 32:5
3:8 4:3,12 5:3 30:5,19 31:13 led 5:12 32:25 42:9
10:6,18,22 51:4,6 53:19 53:1 40:15,17,21
12:11,16,21 51:21 52:9 16:7 lost 34:16
16:8,11 30:20 35:18 obligation 26:9 overbreadth
17:18 mind 10:16 22:5 54:15 Obstetricians override 36:25
minimal 41:19 20:3,4 22:2 obstructed overrule 25:15
52:23 minor 36:8 50:6 obstruction overt 44:1,4,25
37:3,5 minute 45:20 35:18 37:24 obtaining 31:1,2 11:4 54:12
17:13,25 moment 39:2 nonviable 12:6 27:17 38:12
53:15 morning 3:4 12:14,19,24 occur 42:6 46:9
54:7,7 mother 5:17 non-intact 37:24 46:12 48:14 P
8:24 18:15 38:3 40:13 occurred 25:22 P 3:1
14:3 21:8 25:13 48:2 Oh 18:18 pages 12:4 21:24
19:20 29:5 39:5 49:3 normal 11:17 Okay 18:2,24 Pamela 45:12
23:12 mother's 15:10 normally 27:10 26:12 part 7:17 9:12
26:8 16:23 17:2 27:13,23 ones 29:14 10:13,25 13:8
45:23 move 46:15 Northwestern one's 31:22 45:16 46:5
multiple 6:15 47:19 open 15:25 47:17
N 32:13 9:19,23 19:8 3:12,20 46:4
names 24:8 7:4 8:4 38:2 21:7 26:14 particular 4:14
21:7 narrow 43:24 46:10 27:22 31:19,21 5:7 7:14,19
narrower 38:17 numerous 34:10 50:19 54:23 9:11 20:3
Nebraska 5:25 Nurse 45:12 opposed 11:10 22:24 23:4,14
30:11 8:21,23 9:1,9 NYU 47:19 12:10 29:6 23:18,22 24:1
23:1 24:17 N.Y 1:19 36:5 24:13 25:9
47:16,18 35:2,3 43:21 opposite 27:15 32:1 38:25
52:14 Nebraska's 9:14 O oral 1:12 2:2,5 particularly 4:1
necessarily O 2:1 3:1 3:6 28:6 5:19 22:13
22:25 54:1 OBGYNs 37:8 45:14 pass 20:10
35:18 necessary 3:13 object 19:19 outside 13:15 passed 16:1
3:21 18:15 objection 49:5 14:10 15:10 passes 49:7
53:9 practices 29:24 33:2,4 proposed 45:8
42:23 29:11 38:9 pre 14:14 16:23 19:17,24 32:13 35:19
44:10 45:13 precedence 4:13 25:2 26:12,13 51:7
3:6 53:8 physicians 47:5 39:3,21 43:13 44:17
39:23 preeclampsia 25:1 42:22 protecting 50:22
37:1,2 54:9 preenforcement 4:23,23,25 6:3 protocol 41:3
51:13 piece 4:15 22:6 23:23 6:5,13,24,24 protocols 40:10
53:22,23 place 5:14,16 preferable 7:3 9:15 10:9 40:20,24 42:11
14:25 17:2,9 14:24 12:23,25 13:19 prove 43:6
29:16,17 prefers 20:12 20:3,4,6,8,11 53:25 54:1
37:12 plaintiffs 6:1 53:14 54:8 21:21 22:12 providers 36:18
7:18 54:13,18 presented 28:17 24:19 25:9,11 47:22
7:2
28:11 25:12 32:1,18 35:22 purpose 30:16
20:6 play 40:19 preserve 16:11 36:6 37:1 39:4 43:25 44:2,3
39:14 please 3:9 28:9 preserved 16:6 39:16,24 41:15 44:23,24 45:2
40:9,11 point 6:10 12:12 preserves 28:18 43:7,15 46:2,6 put 41:15 42:23
45:4 14:2,5 15:5 prevail 26:18 50:12,21 51:1 43:12 51:7
53:21,24 16:10 17:17 prevent 36:12 51:2,9,9,20
23:4 33:24 38:6 52:1,6,15,18 Q
45:23 46:15 preventing 13:1 54:4,19,24 37:19
17:14
29:2 39:6 portions 42:13 23:4 29:17 6:21 12:23 question 8:12
40:12 pose 3:13 51:11 previability 30:7,8 36:5 16:7 20:14
52:3 14:18 15:17 37:22 39:22 21:2 23:24
38:9 position 25:14 previously 52:13 54:5
35:8,16
44:1
45:2 38:18 39:24 primarily 19:6 proceeding 4:8 41:25 52:9,12
15:16 16:22,24 22:5 produce 41:10 quite 4:18 9:17
45:25 53:15,16 20:15 52:9 quoting 25:7
2:4,10 3:7 29:10,12 47:21 probably 17:16 prohibiting 52:5 R 1:3 3:1
references 38:13 Respondents safe 3:21 8:2,2,7 see 17:22 18:16
21:23 reflects 6:22 18:11 39:10 20:19 21:16 sense 16:19
10:14 results 41:13 42:25 43:10 31:14 41:9
refuse 30:22 35:12 46:21 safest 36:6 43:7 serious 29:5,13
43:8 right 4:7 13:22 51:1,9,19,25 38:2 46:8
29:9 52:5 17:17,25 18:1 52:21 seriously 26:7
54:12 regimen 6:14 18:9,18,20,21 safety 18:15 services 31:11
rejected 34:1,1 20:23 32:24 20:19 23:1 38:22 39:4
50:23 49:12 50:10 37:3,6,18,20 sets 6:15
related 30:6 ripped 15:25 satisfied 3:19 shoot 42:7
47:6,8,8 16:20 36:7 37:10,11 saying 18:12 22:21 25:21
53:8,11 remaining 53:7 riskier 42:24 44:14 46:18 38:2
12:22 29:18 35:21 39:12 44:24 34:22 39:11
7:18 44:20 54:2 ROBERTS 3:3 Scalia 13:23 48:16 50:3
9:21 reply 23:5 24:10 28:4 14:2 15:11 significant
19:3 represent 3:16 29:20 34:13 Schaffer 45:12 20:18 37:10
25:25 require 18:16 36:9,23 37:14 schools 10:9,24 46:17 48:15
28:16 50:25 54:19 40:14,23 43:16 47:16 50:2 52:14,20
30:14 required 25:24 48:7,10,19 science 30:10 significantly
33:11,17 requirement 49:1,5,9,13,24 scope 24:11,12 36:7
41:25 26:15 51:15,18,24 36:14 signs 46:19
45:11 requires 25:10 52:3 53:3,6 second 4:10,20 similar 4:4,9
25:14 29:5 54:25 5:1,19 7:9 8:16
resolve 27:16 54:17 54:15,16,17 34:2,11 39:14
20:8 42:8 43:22 44:1,5 sufficient 35:23 14:17 16:5
Souter's 54:9 44:15 48:10 suggest 27:8,11 18:3 32:10
48:23 speak 4:22 statutue 21:20 suggesting target 23:17
21:16 Stenberg 9:7 suggestion 5:18 taught 47:16
29:8 stand 4:14 5:13 27:20 28:1,11 35:23 temporal 16:18
30:18,21 standard 3:19 28:14 30:4 supported 47:2 tend 41:10
32:15 11:9 34:3 32:7,14,23 supporting tension 25:21
33:7 35:11 46:25 33:6,20 34:9 33:19,20 34:22 27:7,16
48:4 50:18,20 34:23 38:13 52:14 terminating
53:18 43:21 50:17 supports 5:22 3:23
36:2,13 standing 22:10 51:13 52:10,12 25:8 35:19 terminology
38:10 stare 28:20 52:19 50:20 14:2,3,4
40:2,9 start 5:5 40:3,8 Stenberg's suppose 11:16 terms 17:23
41:2,12 41:14 53:12 18:23 26:20 44:9,10 29:8 31:24
42:4,10 starting 40:5,6 Stenhart 7:23 supposed 8:10 33:11 34:11
43:3,20 state 8:14,15 Stevens 10:6,18 Supposing 36:22 37:18
45:10 9:22 32:4 10:22 11:8,11 10:22 tested 24:2
46:1 50:25 51:8,25 12:1,11,16,21 Supreme 1:1,13 testified 7:8
52:9 13:4,6,12,17 sure 12:11 13:5 11:20 29:14
statement 10:8 13:21 14:11,15 15:2 33:15 34:18
25:5,20 27:1 14:20,23 35:15 surely 30:17 37:22,23
28:11 32:6 stop 49:17 survival 14:16 testifies 42:10
52:2,8 34:5 struck 4:16 survive 14:19 44:10
statements studies 47:24 15:19 17:24 testify 7:12 43:8
39:12,18 30:22 38:22 47:25,25 T 21:23 34:10
37:4 submission tail 4:22 42:13
48:24 12:10,13,22 substantial 3:17 taken 5:10 7:15 54:24,25
15:6 16:2 17:8 25:7,18,21 7:15 theoretical 54:7
20:10 21:14 30:7 50:19 14:25 17:1,9 things 25:15
27:3 24:16,17,18 successful 7:3 talk 20:15 24:4 4:24 5:2,10,10
40:1,3 25:10,19 26:9 22:21 53:22 36:4 46:16 5:18,21 7:14
38:8,20 41:17 suffer 14:12 talking 12:16 7:21 8:1,2,18
10:1,3 trial 43:8 48:4 24:4 49:2 48:22 49:2,25 11:20 33:12,15
11:3 tried 15:23 17:7 understood 14:8 viability 12:15 34:11,18 47:10
23:13 53:24 39:1 52:8 16:19 47:13 53:20
tries 4:19 undue 51:11,20 viable 12:7,13 woman 3:22
15:17,19 trimester 4:11 unfettered Vibhakar 6:1,22 42:20 46:6
16:1,4 4:21 5:1 43:12 50:23 7:18 36:18 51:11 54:6
17:4,16 true 17:20 20:21 30:22 view 20:25 21:2 45:17 50:22
18:18,19 40:11 47:14,17 universe 17:24 21:5 womb 4:6 13:15
21:11 47:22,24 48:2 University vulnerability 14:10 15:10
51:7,10 10:24 23:22 24:1 16:12 17:2,7,7
24:8,16 try 6:2 21:15 unreasonable women 28:21
34:16 23:18 27:4 34:3 47:2 W 31:2 52:24
35:16
48:1 unrelated 31:11 wait 49:17 women's 25:9
54:14 unsupported want 11:12 15:9 wondering
trying 6:4 23:8 28:16 18:14 19:9 30:17 44:7
42:24 turned 11:7 upheld 3:16 20:9 44:13 word 12:9,17
Turner 27:8,11 urge 26:3 45:19 49:6,16 36:3 38:16,19
50:13,16 33:25 34:3 use 6:14 14:1,4 wanted 44:10,12 38:19
52:19 35:11,12 45:19 19:12,13 31:22 54:9 words 33:9
Turning 48:6 32:12 50:11,20 wants 20:24 49:16 51:19,21
50:11 6:8,10 7:10,24 uses 6:15 24:17 wasn't 11:14 worried 19:20
8:6 17:21 41:3 44:23 35:1 wouldn't 4:8
35:17 types 46:14 14:6 15:7 17:2 35:11,20 38:7 written 33:10
40:14 17:10 44:11 40:19 41:10 38:8
25:15,20 ultimate 47:4 45:17 ways 27:15,15 19:17,21
34:1
unconstitutio... 1:10
53:22 underlying 29:8 v 1:6 3:4 went 4:22 x 1:2,8
29:13,17 31:4 vagueness 25:1 Westhoff 40:12
13:18 22:3 various 9:22 whatsoever Yeah 51:5
1:6 3:4
9.99 37:2
37:1 938 25:6
1:14 3:2 95 43:5,12 51:13
6:22 54:21 52:23
37:8 99 6:24
55:2
54:14
47:4
54:18
54:22
29:2
54:24
54:24
9:13
9:19
29:3
1:10
29:3
29:3
21:21
2:7
2:4
34:14
53:22
21:22
6:17
31:10
2:10
6:17
53:23
21:22
1:10
