IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ROBERT L. AYERS, JR., :
ACTING WARDEN, :
Petitioner, :
v. : No. 05-493
FERNANDO BELMONTES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 3, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at
11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MARK A. JOHNSON, ESQ., Deputy Attorney General,
Sacramento, California; on behalf the Petitioner.
ERIC S. MULTHAUP, ESQ., Mill Valley, California; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MARK A. JOHNSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ERIC S. MULTHAUP, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 23
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MARK A. JOHNSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 46
P R O C E E D I N G S
[11:05 a.m.]
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument next
in Ayers versus Belmontes.
Mr. Johnson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK A. JOHNSON
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. JOHNSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case concerns the constitutional
sufficiency of California's catchall factor (k)
instruction, which was given in the penalty-phase portion
of California capital cases, and which directed the jurors
to consider any other circumstance that extenuates the
gravity of the crime, even though it is not a legal excuse
for the crime.
In this case, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals
held that this instruction violates the Eighth Amendment
because it allegedly misled the jurors to believe they
could not consider so-called forward-looking evidence that
did not relate directly to the defendant's actual
culpability for the crime itself.
In the State's view, the Ninth Circuit's
conclusion is fundamentally flawed, because it rests on an
illusory distinction between different forms of character
evidence in a way that is inconsistent with this Court's
prior decisions in California -- or Boyde versus
California and Brown versus Payton.
In Boyde, this Court addressed, and rejected, a
virtually identical challenge to the factor (k), and
concluded that this instruction did, in fact, allow jurors
to consider non-crime-related evidence; specifically, it
allowed the jurors to consider evidence of the defendant's
background and character. There was nothing in the Boyde
decision to support the Ninth Circuit's distinction
between different forms of character evidence. In fact,
Boyde implicitly acknowledged that the factor (k) would,
in fact, be understood to encompass Belmontes' good
character evidence, in this case, because, for all
practical purposes, there is no meaningful distinction
between the nature of the background and character offered
in Boyde and the nature of the background --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Johnson, would you comment
on the footnote on the -- on the -- drawing the
distinction with regard to the dance contest that the
defendant won in that case, between -- it's over here; I'm
asking the question -- between facts that occurred before
the crime and facts that might have occurred after.
MR. JOHNSON: Yes, Your Honor. In footnote 5,
this Court addressed a contention, raised for the first
time in argument, that Boyde's evidence might be
admissible under Skipper versus South Carolina, and this
Court distinguished Boyde from Skipper, for a couple of
reasons. First, as the -- as Your Honor pointed out, the
evidence in this case related to good-character evidence,
events that occurred before the crime itself, unlike in
Skipper, which dealt with post-crime events. The Court
also pointed out that the evidence in Boyde -- his dancing
achievement, his good character evidence in that case --
was not offered for the specific inference that the
evidence in Skipper was offered. The Court, in footnote 5
-- and in the opinion, in general, in Boyde -- nonetheless
found that this evidence did, in fact, constitute good-
character evidence of the -- of the defendant's present
good character, because it showed that his crime was an
aberration from otherwise good character. Or, as Justice
Marshall put it in his dissenting opinion, that Boyde had
redeeming qualities, which is a decidedly forward-looking
consideration.
And, as I was saying, the evidence in this case,
and in Boyde --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't have to be forward-
looking, does it? I mean, I thought we've said "so long
as it can be taken into account in any manner," whether
backward-looking or forward-looking. Haven't we said
that, explicitly?
MR. JOHNSON: Yes Your Honor. The -- and, in
fact, the Court has, in Franklin versus Linite, said that
they have not distinguished between different forms of
character evidence. And I understand that, in the past,
we've always discussed background and character evidence
as sort of the same thing. In this case, however, the
Ninth Circuit's conclusion does, in fact, rest on a
distinction between different forms of backward-looking
and forward-looking character --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well it was --
MR. JOHNSON: -- evidence.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- it was addressing itself to
the fact -- to the words of the factor (k) instruction.
How does post-crime prison conduct reduce the seriousness
of a previous crime?
MR. JOHNSON: It does not -- it does not relate
to the seriousness of the -- of the crime at all. The --
Boyde's dancing --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I mean, it has to relate
to the gravity of the crime, under the words of factor
(k), doesn't it?
MR. JOHNSON: It would relate to the gravity --
to circumstances that extenuate the gravity of the crime,
for purposes of a jury's sentencing determination. And
the point I'd like to make on that point is this, Your
Honor. In California, jurors are well aware what their
task is at a sentencing determination. In California, the
guilt and the death eligibility determinations are made
during the guilt-phase trial and the jurors are expressly
told, during the penalty-phase trial, that their lone
determination, their one concern, is to decide between a
sentence of death or a sentence of life without the
possibility of parole. And, in that light, the jurors are
very well aware that their only determination in a
California case is to make a moral, normative
determination, a single normal -- moral normative
determination, as to whether this man, this defendant
standing before them in this Court today, deserves death
or life without possibility --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, now, do you --
MR. JOHNSON: -- of parole.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- do you have an instruction
that supports what you've just told us, that the jury is
told they have to make a single moral determination? Is
that what the court instructed the jury? Or was --
MR. JOHNSON: No, that's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- instructed in items of
factor (k)?
MR. JOHNSON: The --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I think you have to rest
on your argument, that what we are talking about is the
gravity of his crime "for purposes of sentencing." I
understand that argument. But then, when you go on to
make the argument you just made, the jury understands it
is a single moral judgment, what -- is there some specific
instruction you can point to, other than the factor (k)
instruction itself?
MR. JOHNSON: No, they are -- and I may have
been misleading. The jurors are expressly instructed that
is -- that it is their duty to determine, and their only
duty to determine, whether the defendant should receive
life or death and parole, and -- or life without the
possibility of parole -- and in --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well --
MR. JOHNSON: -- light of that determination,
jurors, naturally, would understand that they could take
into account anything that extenuated the gravity of the
crime.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's what they
were told, right? They're instructed that the mitigating
circumstances, including factor (k), are merely examples,
right?
MR. JOHNSON: Yes. In this -- yes. In --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you about that?
This case is unusual, because it has that separate
instruction that, "The mitigating circumstances are merely
examples, and you should pay careful attention to those,
but you may -- but you may rely on other mitigating
circumstances."
May I ask you, would it have been constitutional
if the judge had added a sentence at the end of that
instruction which said, "However, you may not consider
anything mitigating unless it extenuates the gravity of
the crime"?
MR. JOHNSON: It would have been constitutional,
to the extent that it would have allowed the jurors to
give some use whatsoever to Belmontes' proffered evidence
in mitigation, and that's what this Court's prior cases
has -- and, particularly, the various Texas cases have
said that jurors must be given an avenue to make use of
the evidence. In California --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm not sure you've answered
my question. Would it have been a constitutional addition
to that instruction to say, "But I want to -- you to
clearly understand that it is not to be considered
mitigating unless it extenuates the gravity of the crime"?
Would that have been permissible?
MR. JOHNSON: It would appear to -- no. It
would appear not to be, because --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Because that would have
foreclosed consideration of the Skipper-type evidence,
right?
MR. JOHNSON: It would have -- well, it would
foreclose consideration of all present good-character
evidence, I believe. It would -- it would have foreclosed
the consideration of Boyde's evidence, of Payton's
evidence.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So, then the question in this
case is whether the jury might have understood factor (k)
to limit them to the consideration of factors that
extenuate the gravity of the crime.
MR. JOHNSON: Well, the -- yes, the question is
whether the jurors would reasonably understand the
instruction to preclude the consideration of
constitutionally -- of relevant evidence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This Court, in Payton,
said that it was not unreasonable to conclude that
evidence of remorse extenuated the gravity of the crime.
So, why wouldn't an instruction to the jury along the
lines of Justice Stevens's hypothetical have been
perfectly constitutional as extenuate the gravity of the
crime that's interpreted in Brown versus Payton?
MR. JOHNSON: Well, to the -- to the extent --
the jurors would have likely understood that, it -- that
instruction in Belmontes and in Payton, to extenuate the
gravity of the crime for purposes of their sentencing
determination --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's what I thought
your position was. And --
MR. JOHNSON: Yes --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- then you back off of it, and
you say, "extenuate the gravity" of the crime doesn't
relate to anything that's after the crime. I would have
-- I would have interpreted the phrase to mean "anything
that justifies you in giving a lesser punishment for the
crime."
MR. JOHNSON: That's precisely my argument.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then your answer to
Justice Stevens should have been different.
MR. JOHNSON: Well, if -- and I apologize if I
was misunderstood. My --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you think --
MR. JOHNSON: -- question --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- that the jury in this very
case understood that, given the questions that were asked?
MR. JOHNSON: Oh, yes, Your Honor. In this --
in this case, I -- there is certainly no reasonable
likelihood that the jurors felt precluded, because, as was
previously discussed, first there was this additional
instruction that supplemented the other instructions in
this case that made it very clear that the aggravating
factors, the various factors listed in the standard
instruction A through G, that those were the -- they could
only rely on those two for aggravating factors, but their
understanding of mitigating factors was not limited. In
fact, they were expressly told that the previous factors
were merely examples.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the -- what
actually went on? I mean, the jury first came in and
said, "What if we can't decide? Can we decide by
majority?" And then the question was asked, that seemed
to indicate the jurors' understanding, that we take all
those factors that you told us about, and we just take
those factors into account. And there were clarifying
instructions asked by the defense that were not given.
MR. JOHNSON: Well, there -- to answer your
questions, Your Honor, first, there was no indication at
this conference that the jurors were, in fact, confused
about whether they could consider any particular evidence
as being mitigating. The conference itself was called to
address, as you mentioned, the jurors' concern -- or the
jurors' inquiry about the result -- what would happen if
they couldn't reach a unanimous verdict in this case.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, that may be why they had
the conference, but they got into the colloquy that
Justice Ginsburg described. And the last -- as I recall,
the last reference to "factors," whether aggravating or
mitigating, was simply in terms of the list, or "the
listing," I guess the term was, so that the -- it seems to
me at least, there's a fair argument on the other side of
this case, that the last reference that the -- that the
judge made to the jurors with respect to aggravation or
mitigation was to refer to a listing. The listing itself
didn't have anything to do, as I understand it, with the
instruction that you are not limited to the listed
mitigating factors.
So, the concern is that, because the last
reference was to the list, that the list included factor
(k), without embellishment, and that jurors tend to give
-- we have held that the jurors tend to give the greatest
emphasis to clarifying instructions or later instructions
in response to questions. Isn't it a pretty good argument
that, in this case, there is -- there's a reasonable
likelihood that the jurors went back to their task
thinking that they were limited to the list?
MR. JOHNSON: Respectfully, no, Your Honor. And
the reason why is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I -- I'm not necessarily
saying that's my position, so you don't have to be
respectful to me about it. Just --
MR. JOHNSON: I'll be respectful anyhow, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- knock it down if you can.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Be respectful anyway.
MR. JOHNSON: Yes. The point is, with this
instruction conference, there -- the -- an argument that
this reference to "the listing" reflected some
unconstitutional -- or constitutionally restrictive view
presupposes that the jurors reasonably would have
misinterpreted the meaning of the factor (k); and there is
nothing in there -- in any of these questions to put
anybody on notice that that -- that they had any such
concerns. And first --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, except for the language
of factor (k) itself. And if -- without some
embellishment, isn't it a bit of a stretch to think that
factor (k) goes as far as Skipper evidence?
MR. JOHNSON: No, Your Honor, it's not a stretch
at all, because any evidence relating to the defendant's
background and character, his present character in court,
could be seen as extenuating the gravity of the crime for
sentencing purposes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well --
MR. JOHNSON: And the jurors --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- California itself
recognized that there was a problem here of jury
confusion. And now they have amended the provision so
that it would be clear to any juror.
MR. JOHNSON: That's correct, Your Honor, in
People v. Easley the California --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or maybe they thought that was
a problem of Ninth Circuit confusion rather than jury
confusion.
[Laughter.]
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, having that opinion in
front of them, you would think they would amend it, of
course, to prevent that kind of decision again.
MR. JOHNSON: Well, they -- what they were doing
was certainly a prophylactic measure here, to -- they
recognized that perhaps there might be some concern of
confusion, and so they wanted to forestall any chance of
that happening. But notably, this case and -- this case,
and no other California Supreme Court case, has found that
the factor (k) instruction, the pre-Easley version of it,
by itself, did mislead the jurors. In fact, the Supreme
Court, in this case, came down 7-0 in support of the
conclusion that the jurors were properly told about the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where does this factor (k)
come from? What was the source of it?
MR. JOHNSON: The factor (k), as the entire
standard instruction given in these cases, recites
verbatim the language of the California statute, which is
California penal code section 190.3. And, interestingly
enough, the -- not only the California Supreme Court, but
this Court, implicitly has -- have both said that not only
the California statute, but the instruction -- this
standard instruction, upon -- which is based on the
statute, do allow consideration of all relevant mitigating
factors. In fact, as far back as 1983, in this Court's
California v. Ramos decision, this Court stated, albeit in
dicta, that the factor (k) -- or that the standard
instruction would allow consideration of background and
character evidence; and, in fact, the Court stated, in
footnote 20 --
JUSTICE STEVENS: General Johnson, I don't mean
to interrupt you, but I want to be sure you answered your
-- you stick to your answer on -- to my question, earlier,
--
MR. JOHNSON: Okay.
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- because you -- I think you
changed your answer after Justice -- the Chief Justice and
Justice Scalia suggested you might have made a mistake.
Are you -- is it your position that it would be
constitutional to instruct the jury that, "You may not
consider any evidence mitigating, unless it extenuates the
gravity of the crime"?
MR. JOHNSON: Yes, Your Honor, because the
jurors would -- even if that instruction were given, the
jurors would understand that an instruction that
extenuates the gravity of the crime would encompass any
relevant character evidence. And this Court has made
these determinations all the time.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is --
MR. JOHNSON: That --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- that answer consistent with
the position of defense counsel, who said he would not
insult the intelligence of the jury by suggesting to them
that the religious conversion of the defendant did not
extenuate the gravity of the crime?
MR. JOHNSON: No, Your Honor. What the -- what
the counsel actually said was that the defendant's
religious conversion did not provide an excuse for the
crime itself. And, in fact, that argument was, itself,
echoing the language of the factor (k) instruction, which
of course --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's right.
MR. JOHNSON: -- directs the jurors to consider
any other circumstance that extenuates the gravity of the
crime, even though it's not a legal excuse for the crime.
And so, counsel was dovetailing his very effective
argument with the -- with the instruction itself. And
what's significant here is that, like in Payton, like in
Boyde, this case involved virtually all of Belmontes'
penalty-phase evidence. And the entire main thrust of his
argument to the jury was that he could not make it on the
outside, but he could fit in the system and contribute to
society in the future, if given a chance on the inside.
And again, as was true in Boyde and Payton --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If that were true would that
have extenuated the gravity of the crime, if he could get
along in prison?
MR. JOHNSON: Yes, for purposes of jurors -- at
jury's sentencing determination, absolutely, because it
would be viewed as good-character evidence, precisely --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And you think juries would
clearly understand that what he did in the future in
prison would extenuate the gravity of the crime.
MR. JOHNSON: Yes, Your Honor, because, in light
of everything that's been said and done in this trial, as
the Boyde Court noted, jurors do not parse instructions
for subtle shades of meaning; they understand instructions
in a commonsense manner, and in --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The prosecutor didn't
object to any of this mitigating -- mitigation evidence
that was submitted by the defendant, did he?
MR. JOHNSON: The prosecutor objected to none of
this evidence. And, in fact, the prosecutor, in closing
statement, argued that the -- not only could the jurors
consider Belmontes' forward-looking prospects, but the
jurors should consider those prospects. So, in this case
what we have --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the prosecutor's
closing was schizophrenic, because he said, "But really
this shouldn't matter."
MR. JOHNSON: He acknowledged it was something
that -- this argument was something that was proper for
consideration, but -- however, he argued that the evidence
of Belmontes' religious conversion, which happens -- you
know, and then lapsed immediately before he committed the
murder, in this case -- was very weak evidence. But he
did, nonetheless, tell the jurors that they could consider
Belmontes' prior character as bearing on his present
character now.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But, didn't he go beyond saying
it was weak? He did say that, but didn't he say that he
doubted that it fit within (k)?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. JOHNSON: He's -- yes, the prosecutor first
stated that the factor (k) was a catchall, a true
catchall.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So, the prosecutor, I take it,
would have answered Justice Stevens's question the other
way. The prosecutor would have said, "Well, no, this
probably would not be understood by the jurors to refer to
the gravity of the offense."
MR. JOHNSON: No, Your Honor, because in the --
in the previous page, the prosecutor did State that it was
a catchall, you know, which, by implication, incorporates
everything, but -- and the prosecutor's argument, that,
"I'm not sure if it fits in there," signifies that there
-- not that the evidence -- that such evidence could not
be considered as mitigating as a -- in a general matter,
but that -- just that the religious evidence in this case
was extremely weak, to the point of having, as a practical
purpose, no mitigating value. The prosecutor followed
that comment. I'm not sure it fits in there, in next
breath, with, "It's" -- something to the effect of, "It's
no secret that Belmontes' religious evidence is pretty
shaky here," and went on to conclude that. But then, in
the next breath, he said, "But, nonetheless, this is
something that's proper for you to consider."
And, again, reasonable jurors, hearing this --
having been given the instruction here -- would reasonably
interpret this -- all of this evidence as something they
could use to extenuate the gravity of the crime. And
particularly in this context, because, like in Boyde, in
addition to this factor (k), the standard instruction
directed the jurors to consider all the evidence. The
first factor of the enumerated factors -- (a) through (g),
in this case -- told the jurors that they should -- that
they should focus on -- that the first thing to consider
was the -- or the circumstances of the crime itself.
The final factor, therefore, that any other
circumstance that extenuates the gravity of the crime
would clearly be understood to relate to matters outside
the crime itself. And, to the extent that there was any
ambiguity about the meaning of that in this particular
case, the argument by counsel, the additional instruction
here, clarified that to the point that there is certainly
no reasonable likelihood that the jurors felt that they
were constrained in considering any mitigating evidence in
any way they thought fit.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Johnson, when I asked you
about the derivation of factor (k), you gave me a
California statutory cite, but is there -- does it come
from any model code? Does any other State have such a
provision? How widespread is it?
MR. JOHNSON: Of the -- the actual wording of
this instruction?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many States have an
instruction that talks about extenuating the circumstances
of the crime?
MR. JOHNSON: I'm not sure, Your Honor. I'm not
sure. I know that this -- that this instruction itself
came from the statute, which, in turn, was adopted from
the California Briggs initiative in the 1978 statute. I'm
not aware of any -- of any other States -- there may or
may not be -- who have adopted the same statutory model
that California has.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Which -- California hasn't
had it since 1983, right?
MR. JOHNSON: Pardon me, Your Honor?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: California hasn't used this
instruction since 1983.
MR. JOHNSON: That's correct, Your Honor. After
People v. Easely, the California Supreme Court augmented
the instruction.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, is this a one-of-a-kind
case? I mean, you said, in your brief, that the Ninth
Circuit decision threatens many other valid California
death judgments. But these would all have to be rather
ancient cases.
MR. JOHNSON: Yes. And, unfortunately, there's
-- there are several of them that are still being
litigated. I've done research on this issue, and, as of
this date, I can't give you an actual -- an absolute
number, but I believe there is approximately 15 cases
pending, like this one, that involve the factor (k)
instruction -- this factor (k) instruction -- that involve
evidence of -- somehow, future-looking evidence, which --
all character evidence, frankly, is future-looking --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And --
MR. JOHNSON: -- whereas --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- that wouldn't wash out, on
the other grounds?
MR. JOHNSON: Right, that -- and -- that are
still pending, and that are -- unlike Payton, are not
governed by the AEDPA.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you're saying those
convictions are more than -- more than 23 years old?
MR. JOHNSON: Yes, Your Honor. Unfortunately,
there's -- they're -- I believe all of them are being
litigated now in the Federal court system in California.
If you have no further questions, I guess I'll
reserve the rest of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Mr. Multhaup.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC S. MULTHAUP
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MR. MULTHAUP: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Here is Respondent's 60-second nutshell summary
of our core position. This case does not turn on the
constitutional factor (k) standing alone. Rather, it
turns on a straightforward application of the Boyde test,
to the unusual, unique circumstances that occurred during
the arguments, instructions to deliberations at the
penalty trial of this case.
Here are the two key components of our claim.
During arguments to the jury, both counsel conveyed to the
jury that Belmontes' evidence of Youth Authority religious
experience was not covered by factor (k). However, both
counsel suggested to the jury that it should be considered
anyway. Now, this is unusual, because, of all -- of all
the things that the district attorney and the defense
counsel disagreed on, this was one that they did agree on,
and it's likely that the jury would have taken note of
that.
The case then proceeded to instructions and
deliberations. The jury came back to court, announced
that they were deeply divided, perhaps with a majority
favoring life. The turning point occurred when one juror,
Juror Hern, requested judicial confirmation that the
specific list of factors previously given was the only
base -- was the only framework within which the penalty
decision could be made. At that point, the trial court
had a constitutional obligation to disabuse Juror Hern and
the rest of the assembled jurors of that misapprehension
and, at the very least, to reinstruct the jurors that the
enumerated factors were merely illustrative and not
exhaustive, and instruct the jurors that the jury had to
consider all of the mitigating evidence.
The trial court did neither, with the result
that the jury all too likely returned to its deliberations
with the belief that the only factors -- the only matters
they considered -- could consider were those encompassed
within the enumerated factors, and believing -- based on
counsel's prior arguments -- that factor (k) did not
include the Youth Authority religious-experience evidence.
JUSTICE ALITO: When did the defense counsel say
that this evidence did not fit within factor (k)?
MR. MULTHAUP: Your Honor, it occurred in
argument. And my counsel -- esteemed co-counsel will give
me the exact page -- but it occurred in the context -- the
context -- during the prosecutor's argument, the
prosecutor said to the jury that, "I suspect" -- and then
he, for emphasis, said, "I can't imagine that you won't be
told that the religious-conversion evidence doesn't fit
within factor (k)." And, at that point, he expressed
reservations, doubts, as to whether it did fit in factor
(k) or --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why does that --
MR. MULTHAUP: -- any other factor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why does that matter?
Because the jury was told that the factors were merely
examples of the mitigating evidence they could consider.
MR. MULTHAUP: I'm more than --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It probably didn't fit
into factor (h), either, but it doesn't matter.
MR. MULTHAUP: Well, it has -- if it -- oh, Your
Honor, the -- calling your -- or you've called my
attention to the instruction that said that the set -- in
the prior set of -- or in the general set of instructions,
that the enumerated factors were merely illustrative.
Now, that instruction had a cloud of confusion surrounding
it, because the way it was phrased was, the Court said,
"The mitigating factors that I have expressed to you are
illustrative." There was no list of mitigating factors.
There was only a single list, unitary list, of factors
that could be either aggravating or mitigating, depending
on a jury's decision.
The instruction that you're referring to, Your
Honor, was a -- was the result of the trial court denying
some, and granting some, parts of the special instructions
requested by the defense. And so, when the trial court
said to the jury, "The list of mitigating factors is
illustrative only," I -- we, who know the background of
this, understand what -- the point he was trying to make,
but the jury, hearing it, they would think, very
reasonably, "There's no list of mitigating factors."
JUSTICE ALITO: You said this case is different
because both counsel told the jury that the evidence that
you're relying on did not fit within factor (k). And I'm
not sure what you're referring to.
MR. MULTHAUP: Okay.
JUSTICE ALITO: Now, as to defense counsel, are
you referring to what you quoted on page 9 of your brief,
where he says, "I'm not going to insult you" -- what you
highlighted on page 9 -- "I'm not going to insult you by
telling you I think it excuses, in any way, what happened
here"? That's what you -- is that what you're referring
to?
MR. MULTHAUP: That's one of the passages that I
am referring to, and it came as a direct response to the
District Attorney, in effect, calling out the defense
attorney, "I can't imagine that you won't be told that
this fits within factor (k)." So, at that point, the
defense counsel had to make a decision, "Okay, either I
have to argue that my Skipper evidence is -- my square peg
of Skipper evidence has to fit in the round hole of" --
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't he --
MR. MULTHAUP: -- "factor (k)" --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- saying something very
different there? He isn't -- he's not saying, "This
doesn't fit within factor (k)." And he makes no reference
to factor (k). He says nothing about "extenuating." He
says "excuses." Isn't that something very different,
"excusing" the crime?
MR. MULTHAUP: Your Honor, this Court has used
the terms "extenuate" and "excuse" as synonyms in Boyde
and --
JUSTICE ALITO: If you had been --
MR. MULTHAUP: -- in Payton with --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- if you were arguing this to
the jury, would you have said, "You know, my client earned
a position of responsibility on the fire crew that
patrolled the Sierra Foothills, and, therefore, that
excuses the crime that you've found that he committed
here"?
MR. MULTHAUP: No. No. The --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't see, anywhere in Mr.
Schick's statement, at least from 165 to 170, where he
says what you said he said. Now, maybe he says it some
other place, but -- I'd like the reference to it -- but I
-- what I have him as saying is that -- he says, for
example, several times, "The presence -- I don't suggest
that the -- that the presence of religion, in itself, is
totally mitigating." Well, it certainly wasn't, in this
instance. I gather I'm right. Am I right in thinking
that all this religious conversion took place before he
murdered the girl? So, this is not a case of your trying
to get some evidence that took place after the crime.
MR. MULTHAUP: That's right. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If --
MR. MULTHAUP: -- then --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that's right, then maybe it
does more easily fit within factor (k). The prosecutor
told the jury they should consider it, or they could. The
judge told the jury they could consider it -- it sounded
as -- says, "You take it -- this is an example" -- he
says, "It's an example in factor (k)." Maybe he's wrong,
but they certainly likely think they can consider it. And
Mr. Schick doesn't say it's not in factor (k). At least,
I don't see it. That's why I'm asking.
MR. MULTHAUP: Your Honor, the whole point of
factor (k) is that -- evidence that's an excuse for the
crime. And if we're --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, I know the point of
factor (k). I'm trying to be absolutely certain, before
thinking --
MR. MULTHAUP: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- he didn't say it, that I've
made every effort to get from you the place where -- that
this -- where the defense counsel says, "Jury, I agree,
you cannot put this into factor (k)."
MR. MULTHAUP: Okay. And, Your Honor, looking
at it in context, given the district attorney's argument,
the district attorney says, "I can't imagine you won't be
told that it doesn't -- that it -- that it doesn't fit
within factor (k)." So, the defense attorney gets up and
says, "I'm -- I am going to tell you that it doesn't
within -- fit within factor (k). It doesn't" --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that page --
MR. MULTHAUP: -- "constitute" --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- where he says that is
where?
MR. MULTHAUP: When he -- when he says, Your
Honor, "It doesn't constitute an excuse in any way."
JUSTICE BREYER: Were his words "it doesn't
constitute an excuse"?
MR. MULTHAUP: "It doesn't excuse, in any way,"
Your Honor. And we -- as a matter --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in --
MR. MULTHAUP: -- of semantics --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- but, in a sense, that's
right, just like remorse. Remorse doesn't excuse the
crime. It's a consideration that you take into account in
assessing the gravity of the crime for purposes of
punishment.
MR. MULTHAUP: Okay. Your Honor, this is a
point of, perhaps, semantics. But the -- by the time you
get to penalty phase, there's nothing to excuse the crime,
in the sense of self-defense or "not guilty by reason of
insanity." The only thing --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- "in any way."
MR. MULTHAUP: It does say "in any way."
JUSTICE BREYER: Where?
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's on page 9 of your -- of
your brief. The --
MR. MULTHAUP: Thank you.
JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- italicized portion.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It's on 166 of the joint
appendix.
MR. MULTHAUP: Thank you.
And if the -- if trial counsel was trying to
make the point that, "Well, it doesn't constitute a legal
excuse, but it does constitute a partial excuse or some
kind of mitigating evidence under this factor," he would
have put that in there. The clear import, from the
context here, is that defense counsel was not trying to
sell the jury a position that was, on its face, untenable,
but, rather, to acknowledge that it did not fit within the
"excuse the gravity of the crime" factor, which --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Only if you think that excusing
the crime and extenuating its gravity are one and the same
thing, which I don't really think.
MR. MULTHAUP: Well, Your Honor, there's two --
I'd like to make two responses to that. First of all,
this Court has used those terms interchangeably, in Boyde
and Payton, with respect to mitigating evidence. Second
of all, let's -- as a -- as a practical matter, we have a
defense attorney arguing a case to a jury in a Central
Valley California county. And if the defense attorney has
a choice between two synonyms, one which is used in common
parlance, "excuse," and one which is not used in common
parlance, "extenuate," it hardly constitutes an -- a
defect or concession on his part if he were to say, "This
does not excuse the crime in any way." That's plain
speaking to a jury, that -- and what he -- what he --
counsel --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But wouldn't a jury think all
this evidence must have some purpose? The only purpose it
could have is to -- is to propel us toward life rather
than death. I mean, the bulk of the evidence at the
sentencing phase -- wasn't it? -- was how he behaved when
he was a prisoner before.
MR. MULTHAUP: Your Honor, not -- that's not
exactly what happened at penalty phase here. This is not
a case like Boyde, where all the evidence was background
and character evidence, and it's not a case like Payton,
where the only evidence was a post-crime conversion. This
case involved a mixture of evidence, where first there was
the grandfather who testified to what a bad upbringing he
had, traditional background and character evidence. The
mother testified to her undying love for her son,
traditional evidence. Friends testified to his good
characteristics. And then, at the end, there was a clear
segment that related to his good performance in Youth
Authority and his religious conversion. So, it was only a
-- it was a partial part of -- partial part of the
penalty-phase presentation, but it certainly wasn't the
entire presentation, as it was in Boyde and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even so, there was --
MR. MULTHAUP: -- Payton.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- there was extensive
testimony about his prospects for doing good in a prison
setting.
MR. MULTHAUP: Well, certainly, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the jury must have
thought there's some reason why the judge allowed that
evidence in. And what reason could it be, other than to
show that, if he is given life, he will be a good
prisoner?
MR. MULTHAUP: Your Honor, that's a very
logical, sensible thing for the jury to have thought. And
now I'd like to drop the second shoe of the key components
of our claim. The first shoe was the arguments of counsel
that we've discussed the various permutations on. The
most likely -- so, the jury began deliberating based on
the instructions and the arguments that they had -- that
they had had. And it's entirely likely that when the jury
was favoring a life verdict during the first part of their
deliberations, Belmontes' prospects for good behavior in
prison and contributions were part of the debate.
When Juror Hern asked for judicial clarification
-- not clarification, confirmation -- of a very specific
view that only the enumerated factors could be considered
in the penalty-phase deliberations, the jury -- and the
trial court assented without qualification to that -- at
that point, the jury would have very likely thought, "The
trial court who holds a position of great deference to us,
much more than most other authority figures we have in our
life, just told us what the marching orders are here.
This is the framework for decision."
Now, what happened during the -- during the
trial is the defense -- and I'm suggesting what the jury
might have thought, in relation to your question -- that,
"The defense attorney was taking his best shot for his
client, pushing the envelope, maybe went over the top a
little bit. But defense attorneys do that. The
prosecutor was being a very decent stand-up kind of
person, and -- but, right now, when we get down to the
business of making the decision, we have to follow the
rules. And the rules are what the -- are what the -- are
what Judge Gisson just confirmed to us, that we are
limited to the enumerated factors, and factor (k) does not
include the Skipper evidence, because that was explained
to us by counsel."
I would like to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before you move on,
Counsel --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, of course you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- don't you --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- don't you -- excuse me.
Excuse me.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- don't you have to
address the Teague question a little bit? You -- you're
entitled to this new rule adopted by the Court of Appeals
only if it was dictated by precedent at the time the
judgment became final. Isn't that kind of a hard argument
to make in light of our subsequent decision in Brown v.
Payton?
MR. MULTHAUP: Your Honor, I don't see -- as to
the first part of Your Honor's question, I don't believe
that there is any new rule whatsoever in the Ninth Circuit
opinion. It's a straightforward application of Boyde to
the totality of circumstances that occurred.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of Boyde? It's
straightforward application of Boyde?
MR. MULTHAUP: Yes. The Ninth Circuit began
with Boyde, and it went through all of the proceedings at
trial, and concluded that there was a reasonable
likelihood that the jury didn't consider Skipper evidence.
And that's what we're asking this Court to do, the exact
same -- applying the Boyde test to the rule -- the rule of
decision that was clearly established by this Court as of
1986, and reiterated and expanded by this Court in 1987,
with Skipper.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but what has to be clear
under Teague is not just the rule, but the rule's
application in circumstances like this. There are a lot
of rules that are clear, but if Teague means anything at
all it has to mean that you should have known that, in
this case, the rule would produce this result. So it's
not enough to say that there was a rule. There are a lot
of rules out there, but the question is whether the
outcome should have been clear at the time. Isn't that
what Teague means?
MR. MULTHAUP: Certainly, Your Honor. And
applying -- because when we -- when we take a look at
Penry I, this Court said -- in response to a Teague
argument by the attorney general, this Court held that
Penry got past the threshold Teague issue because of -- at
the time of the finality of his direct appeal, in 1986,
the rule was well-established that the sentencer may not
be precluded from considering relevant evidence in
mitigation, by Lockett, Eddings, and others. So if that
was a firmly established rule as of 1986 --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Penry was
considerably tightened by the subsequent decision in
Graham versus Collins, though.
MR. MULTHAUP: Graham v. Collins was an AEDPA
case, as was Payton. So, we have a very, very different
standard of review. And, if I may, Your Honor --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I know Payton was an
AEDPA case, but it, nonetheless, concluded that it was not
unreasonable for the California Supreme Court to read
instruction (k) in a way that allowed this evidence to be
considered. And I would have thought, if it was not
unreasonable to have that reading, that the contrary
reading that you're proposing, and that the Ninth Circuit
adopted below, could hardly be said to have been dictated
by existing precedent.
MR. MULTHAUP: Ah. Well, the -- our position in
relation to that is, the direct quote from -- direct quote
from Payton itself, in which the Court said that, assuming
the California Supreme Court was incorrect, Payton,
nonetheless, loses. Here we're arguing that the
California Supreme Court was incorrect, and, therefore,
Belmontes --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because if it was --
MR. MULTHAUP: -- should win.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- because, even if
incorrect, it was, nonetheless, reasonable. And I'm just
having trouble understanding how, if a contrary position
is dictated by precedent under Teague, a reading 180
degrees the opposite of that could be regarded by this
Court as reasonable.
MR. MULTHAUP: The unusual facts of this case
are much stronger in favor of relief under the Boyde test
than were those in Payton. Therefore, applying the
longstanding rule of Lockett and Eddings to the different,
and more compelling, facts of this case, there is no
reason -- there is every reason to provide Belmontes
relief, where it was denied to Payton. And there's no
reason to believe that the California Supreme Court was
being incorrect, but reasonable, in -- to presume, or
find, based on Payton, that the California Supreme Court
was being incorrect, but reasonable, in this case.
Penry could not have won his case under the --
under the -- that particular analysis, because the Texas
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I --
MR. MULTHAUP: -- Supreme Court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Graham didn't win his
case.
MR. MULTHAUP: And Payton didn't win either, but
we're operating under the prior regime. So -- I
understand the -- the Court is suggesting, I believe, that
somehow Payton is a sword, in some sense, to deny relief
as to all California defendants under penalty-phase
instructional claims cited by the California Supreme
Court, even under different facts and under more egregious
circumstances. And I -- I may have -- be misinterpreting
the Court's argument, but I would argue that there are any
number of scenarios, notwithstanding Payton, that would
require relief under the pre-AEDPA standards when you
apply the test of Boyde to all the circumstances of the
case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Multhaup, one aspect of
your argument I wish you would clarify, and that's in your
brief at page 20, footnote 3. As I understand it, you are
saying -- you are not challenging factor -- the factor (k)
instruction as excluding Skipper evidence. Your challenge
is limited to this particular case. Is that what you're
saying in that footnote?
MR. MULTHAUP: Yes, Your Honor. I'm not here to
refight the battle of Boyde. You know, I spilled tons of
hours of time and printer's ink in an amicus brief in
1989, and I understand the concept of "you lose." What we
are arguing is that the Boyde test should be applied to
the circumstances of this case, and that factor (k),
standing alone, in a -- in a case where defendant relies
on Skipper evidence, does not warrant relief by that fact
alone. Here we have much more than that fact which, under
Boyde, does call for relief.
I would like to give --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the --
MR. MULTHAUP: -- Respondent's --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- the "much more" is the
questions that the jury asked?
MR. MULTHAUP: The "much more" includes the
arguments by counsel, which, notwithstanding different --
reasonably differing views of it, does put a context on
the -- put into context what defense counsel was arguing.
We have the confusion inherent in the instruction that the
Court gave the -- the putatively proper instruction about
them being illustrative rather than exhaustive. We have
the colloquy during the penalty deliberations. We have
Juror Hailstone's follow-up question regarding the
possibility of considering the availability of psychiatric
treatment, which was explicitly rejected, and very likely
confirming the message that had just been given to -- via
the answer to Juror Hern's case, that only the enumerated
factors can be considered.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there is no
evidence on that question presented, right? The reason
that the possibility of psychiatric treatment couldn't be
considered is because neither party had put evidence on
that question before the jury.
MR. MULTHAUP: Well, Your Honor, you know that,
because you're the Chief Justice, but the people of San
Joaquin County had no idea that that was the reason, and
if not explained --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. It's a question
of what mitigating evidence was put before the jury. The
jurors couldn't consider that, because it was the -- quite
proper for the trial judge to say, "You can't consider
that, because there was no evidence on it."
MR. MULTHAUP: It would have been perfectly
proper for the trial court to say, "You can't consider
that, because" -- appended exactly the -- the explanation
that you gave. And the jurors would have understood that
they had to consider the evidence presented, but they
couldn't speculate about other things. If, at the crucial
point in the proceedings, the trial court had said, "Juror
Hern, you do have to pay attention to those factors, but
they're illustrative rather than exhaustive, and you must
consider all of Belmontes' evidence. Please go back and
deliberate," that would have cured the errors here.
However, the error occurred when the -- when the
court didn't do that. And Juror Hailstone's question --
the trial court's answer could only have reaffirmed the
misimpression that the court returned to the -- to
deliberate with.
I have a -- just a few minutes, and I would like
to give Respondent's answer to Justice Kennedy's question
to Petitioner, paraphrasing somewhat, How does Skipper
evidence extenuate the gravity of the crime? And the
answer is, it doesn't at all, logically, ethically, or
morally. As defense counsel conveyed to the jury, the
circumstances of the crime are what they are, and there's
nothing that can be done about that. The circumstances of
the crime are immutable and irreparable. The only thing
that can be extenuated in a penalty presentation is
Petitioner's culpability for the crime. And counsel
argued that Petitioner's culpability was some -- to some
extent, extenuated and mitigated because the evidence
showed that there was no plan to kill the decedent when
they went to her house.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we have said that remorse
extenuates the gravity of the crime, for punishment
purposes, under factor (k).
MR. MULTHAUP: Well, of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that --
MR. MULTHAUP: -- course --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that -- and that -- that's
post -- that's post-crime.
MR. MULTHAUP: And, Your Honor, this pre- and
post- distinction, I don't believe has -- is a relevant
distinction. It's whether it's functionally related to
the culpability for the crime, because when a defendant
expresses remorse --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, you think pre- and crime --
pre- and post- distinction has no bearing on this case?
I thought that was really the linchpin of your argument?
MR. MULTHAUP: No, Your Honor. It's that
Skipper evidence is a specific and different kind of
mitigating character evidence that doesn't extenuate the
gravity of the crime, but it provides a different kind of
reason for sparing the defendant's life. There is --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And yours is both pre- and
post- -- that is, you're referring to conduct that took
place before this crime was committed -- that is, his
prior incarceration -- and asking the jury to project that
forward to say, "That's how he behaved in prison, before
he committed this most recent crime, and that's how he's
likely to behave again."
MR. MULTHAUP: Well, all of the Skipper evidence
in this case occurred as a matter of historical fact
before the capital crime and -- which, in fact, gives it's
much -- gives it much more weight, because it can't be
suggested that he contrived his good conduct after being
arrested for a capital crime.
But, I'm going to make a broad statement here.
There is no reported case in California where either a
defense attorney or the California Supreme Court makes a
text-based argument that Skipper evidence extenuates the
gravity of the crime, because it's illogical and doesn't
work. Look what the defense attorney did in Payton. He
argued that, "Well, of course you have to consider that
evidence under factor (k), because it's a catchall. It's
supposed to be inclusive." That's not a text-based
argument, that's a circumstantial-evidence kind of -- kind
of argument.
When we look at that -- when we look at that
phrasing of "extenuating the gravity of the crime," with
its plain meaning in English, and the distinction made, in
Skipper itself, that Skipper evidence does not relate to
Petitioner's culpability for the crime, the jury is going
to appreciate what the -- what the attorney said to them,
that the -- that the Youth Authority religious evidence
does not extenuate the gravity of the crime, but has
independent mitigating effect outside those enumerated
factors. There's nothing -- that's a perfectly
appropriate position to take, no constitutional problem
there until, during deliberations, the trial court
confirmed that they could only consider the enumerated
factors and could not consider nonstatutory mitigation,
the -- any other kind of mitigation, because that, in
effect, closed out consideration of the -- of the Skipper
evidence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If the judge's response to
Juror Hern was so misleading, why didn't counsel object to
it, if it was as obviously misleading as you say?
MR. MULTHAUP: Your Honor, it's like being --
stepping off a curb and being hit by a bicycle that you
didn't see coming. This occurs in the middle of jury
deliberations. Nobody expected a juror to ask a question
of this type. And, of course, I'm speculating here, but
the trial court fielded the questions, responded off-the-
cuff, and the juror -- jury went back.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's why you have counsel
there, to help the court when the court makes a real
boo-boo, and if this was as obviously error as you say,
one would have expected some objection from defense
counsel.
MR. MULTHAUP: One could also have expected the
trial court to say, "Let's take a minute to think about
that. We're going into recess, and I'd like counsel's
opinion about this, because this is a difficult question.
It's not a simple yes-or-no answer." Under --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Johnson, you have 6 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MARK A. JOHNSON
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. JOHNSON: Thank you, Your Honor.
In a minute, I'd like to briefly touch on the
Teague issue. At the time Belmontes' judgment was
pending, there was no precedent that would have dictated
the Ninth Circuit's conclusion here regarding the
sufficiency of the factor (k) instruction. And, indeed,
this Court's subsequent holdings, in Boyde and Payton,
bear out the fact that it was at least -- that that
decision certainly was not dictated by precedent.
In Boyde, this Court dealt with evidence of good
character that was precisely the same as the evidence of
good character here. The -- Belmontes' evidence of having
succeeded during a prior commitment and religious
conversion, that he might be able to help others in the
future, was good-character evidence in the same way that
Boyde's evidence of having won a dancing prize, of having
helped children, of having helped artistic -- having
artistic abilities, was all good character. And there is
certainly nothing in Boyde to suggest that there is any
distinction. But, even if there was, it would not be one
that would compel all rational jurists to distinguish the
two cases.
And that's further buttressed, of course, by
this Court's more recent opinion in Payton, which found
that it was at least reasonable for the State Court to
conclude that Payton's post-crime forward-looking evidence
would be understood to fall within the factor (k)
instruction if it was at least reasonable for California
to find that such forward -- post-crime forward-looking
evidence would fit within the factor (k). The Ninth
Circuit's conclusion, to the contrary, regarding pre-crime
good-character evidence, certainly was not dictated by
precedent.
I'd also like to address, quickly in my
remaining time, Mr. Multhaup's arguments regarding the
jury -- or the argument of counsel and the jury questions.
Again, Boyde counsels that the relevant
consideration is whether there is any reasonable
likelihood that the jurors view the instructions in a way
as to foreclose consideration of constitutionally relevant
evidence. In this case, both -- the jurors were
instructed with the factor (k). As I've said, they were
given the supplemental instruction that said that the --
that the previous listing -- factors were only examples of
some. And then, both counsel clearly said that the jurors
could, and should, consider this evidence.
Is there some possibility out there that some
juror might have misinterpreted this in a -- in a -- in a
different manner? I suppose so, but there is certainly no
reasonable likelihood, especially in light of the fact
that Belmontes' evidence, virtually all of it, was
directed at this main thrust of the argument. And, just
like in Payton and Boyde, for the jurors to have believed
that they could nonetheless not consider that evidence
would have turned the whole proceedings in a virtual
charade or a pointless exercise.
So far as the questions during juror
deliberations, it's, first, important to recognize, none
of these jurors said anything to suggest that they were
actually confused about whether they could consider any
evidence offered. Their question -- Juror Hern's question
merely related to her -- she wanted to confirm her
understanding about the role of balancing mitigating
versus aggravating factors under California law. And
certainly the parties there if -- would have been in a
better position to realize it if these questions somehow
suggested some ambiguity. There was no objection there.
Moreover, in the same conference, the judge advised the
jurors to review the instructions again, which, of course,
again included the factor (k), and which, of course,
included the supplemental instruction that said that their
consideration of mitigating factors was not limited to
those that had been listed, but those that had been listed
were merely examples.
If the Court has no further questions, I will
submit the case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
[Whereupon, at 12:03 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.]
49:23 ambiguity 21:13 40:13 41:2 avenue 9:16 38:12 39:1
amended 15:3 5:1 8:2,4,5 Ayers 1:3 3:4 best 35:5
12:15 3:18 14:7 17:19 beyond 19:20
announced 30:8 36:2 37:9 42:11 46:4 boo-boo 46:7
19:11 answer 11:14 43:23 44:20 4:16,17 6:6 4:17 5:3,8,12
23:2 42:15,19,22 arguments 24:8 backward-loo... 24:6 28:11
16:17 20:3 48:3 balancing 49:6 36:17 38:22
anyway 14:5 artistic 47:10,11 based 16:8 40:18 46:25
48:2 apologize 11:16 12:12,16 21:19 39:5 48:21
Appeals 3:17 asking 4:22 bear 47:1 10:7 47:9
38:4 1:15 assembled 25:4 36:12 30:3,20 31:11
application 24:6 assuming 38:8 23:25 46:18 27:13 31:15
13:3 applied 40:13 26:13 42:9 behaved 33:2 briefly 46:20
49:7 apply 39:25 attorney 1:16 44:8 Briggs 22:7
37:7 38:23 30:9,11 32:14 belief 25:11 Brown 4:3 10:23
28:2,4 23:3 attorney's 30:8 believed 48:21 47:16
argue 27:25 augmented believing 25:13
3:13 4:2,3 19:25 20:1,9 21:10 compel 47:14 48:22 49:3
9:17 44:24 circumstances compelling considerably
16:3 Central 32:14 6:24 8:22 9:2,5 38:25 37:17
certain 29:25 21:8 22:2 24:7 components consideration
22:7,10 certainly 11:23 36:9,23 39:21 24:10 34:8 5:19 10:2,5,7
15:15 21:15 39:25 40:14 concept 40:12 10:11,15 16:9
32:15 29:4,18 33:18 42:24,25 concern 7:7 16:13 19:13
38:9,11 33:25 37:6 circumstantia... 12:22 13:13 31:3 45:18
47:2,12,25 45:1 15:16 48:6,8 49:15
47:21 48:17 49:8 cite 21:21 concerns 3:10 considered 9:21
challenge 4:5 cited 39:19 14:14 20:13 24:14
challenging 40:5 claims 39:19 32:19 38:1 41:12,16
changed 16:22 clarified 21:15 concluded 4:6 41:8
4:9,11,14,16 clarifying 12:15 conclusion 3:24 constitute 5:13
6:5,6,10 14:21 clear 12:2 15:4 46:23 47:24 31:23,24
5:5,9 44:1 47:4,5,11 18:17 21:11 12:19,21 13:1 3:10 9:6,11,19
6:7 7:11 characteristics 36:18 48:13 14:7 49:11 10:22 16:25
10:10 33:14 client 28:16 35:6 confirm 49:5 24:5 25:3
12:2 charade 48:24 closed 45:18 confirmation 45:13
13:7,19 Chief 3:3,8 8:15 closing 19:3,9 24:24 34:18 constitutionally
8:20 10:17 cloud 26:16 confirmed 35:12 10:16 14:9
19:6,16 16:22 18:24 code 16:4 21:22 45:15 48:8
21:6,14 23:22 24:1 Collins 37:18,19 confirming constrained
24:4,9 26:3,5,9 35:17 colloquy 13:1 41:10 21:17
27:7 35:20,23 36:10 41:6 confused 12:19 contention 4:25
32:14 37:16,22 38:13 come 15:25 49:3 contest 4:20
37:1 38:15 39:10,12 21:21 confusion 15:3,8 context 21:2
38:21 41:13,19,22 coming 45:25 15:9,17 26:16 25:20,21 30:8
39:6,7 46:15 49:20 comment 4:18 41:3 32:2 41:1,2
40:1,7 children 47:10 20:17 consider 3:14,20 contrary 38:2
41:11 choice 32:16 commitment 4:7,8 9:8 12:20 38:17 47:24
44:12,18 Circuit 3:17 47:6 17:1,23 19:5,6 contribute 18:7
49:19,21 15:8 22:21 committed 19:17 20:22 contributions
36:7,12 38:3 19:15 28:19 21:4,7 25:8,12 34:16
16:2 4:10 6:8 46:23 common 32:16 29:18 36:15 conversion
19:14 38:9,11,20 dealt 5:7 47:3 45:14 46:1 45:5 47:13
33:8,16 39:3,5,11,16 death 7:4,8,14 49:1 distinguish
39:20 41:4 8:13 22:22 denied 39:2 47:14
44:19 45:14 debate 34:16 denying 26:24 5:3 6:4
47:3,18 49:18 decent 35:8 26:21 27:21 30:8,9
42:15 46:25 decidedly 5:18 described 13:2 33:23
21:14 covered 24:13 15:13 16:11 determination doubts 26:1
24:11,14 co-counsel 22:21 25:2 6:25 7:3,7,10 dovetailing 18:1
25:16,19 25:19 26:22 27:24 7:12,13,20 drawing 4:19
crew 28:17 35:1,10 36:3 8:16 11:3 drop 34:8
31:22 crime 3:15,16 36:18 37:17 18:14 duty 8:11,12
34:9 3:22 4:23 5:6 47:2 determinations D.C 1:9
40:25 5:15 6:16,18 decisions 4:2 7:4 17:8
42:23 6:21,24 8:3,19 deeply 24:22 determine 8:11 E
45:21 9:10,22 10:12 defect 32:19 8:12 E 2:1 3:1,1
48:4 10:19,23 11:2 defendant 4:21 dicta 16:12 earlier 16:18
49:20 11:8,9,12 7:13 8:12 dictated 36:1 earned 28:16
18:11,18 21:1 defendants different 3:25 Easley 15:6
22:3 28:9,19 defendant's 11:15 27:7 Eddings 37:14
35:19 42:21,24 43:1 44:3 40:25 43:25 27:21 45:11,18
44:23 43:3,9,19,21 defense 12:16 44:2 48:17 effective 18:1
47:16 44:2,6,9,13,16 17:12 24:16 differing 41:1 effort 30:4
44:21 45:4,7 25:16 27:1,12 difficult 46:13 egregious 39:20
4:4,25 5:3 crucial 42:7 30:11 32:2,14 37:11 38:7,7 either 26:10,21
6:3 7:14 cuff 46:4 32:15 35:3,5,7 directed 3:13 27:24 39:14
10:17 culpability 3:22 41:2 42:23 21:4 48:20 44:18
15:19,22 43:3,4,19 45:7 44:19,22 46:8 directly 3:21 eligibility 7:4
curb 45:24 deference 34:23 directs 17:23 embellishment
18:21 cured 42:12 degrees 38:19 disabuse 25:3 13:15 14:17
23:19 deliberate 42:12 disagreed 24:17 emphasis 13:17
25:2,9 D 42:17 discussed 6:6 25:23
27:1 D 3:1 deliberating 11:25 34:10 encompass 4:13
32:11 dance 4:20 34:11 dissenting 5:17 17:6
35:25 dancing 5:8 6:19 deliberations distinction 3:25 encompassed
47:9 24:8,21 25:10 4:10,15,20 6:9 25:12
38:8 date 23:2 34:15,20 41:6 43:17,18,22 English 45:5
44:20,24 45:6 extent 9:12 32:5 35:13 47:23
25:6,13 48:19,22 49:4 10:12,22 11:1 48:10 49:13 focus 21:7
34:19 exact 25:20 11:8 17:15 factors 10:11 follow 35:10
41:11 36:16 18:18 21:1 12:3,3,5,6,7,14 followed 20:16
exactly 33:5 28:11 32:18 12:15 13:3,12 follow-up 41:7
29:17 extenuated 8:18 25:13 26:6,15 5:11 16:15
excuse 3:15 17:24 21:10 48:12 49:7,15 10:6
37:15 29:22 30:19,21 extenuating 38:21,25 39:20 forms 3:25 4:11
excuses 27:16 F favor 38:22 3:20 5:18,25
28:8,19 face 32:3 favoring 24:23 6:10 19:5
6:5 excusing 28:9 fact 4:6,11,13 34:14 47:19,22
9:13,17 32:6 5:13 6:3,8,14 Federal 23:19 found 5:13
exercise 48:24 12:7,19 15:21 felt 11:24 21:16 15:19 28:19
12:20 exhaustive 25:7 16:10,14 17:19 FERNANDO 47:17
16:14 41:5 42:10 19:3 40:16,17 1:7 framework 25:1
18:5,15 existing 38:5 44:12,13 47:1 fielded 46:3 35:1
19:3,13 expanded 36:19 48:18 figures 34:24 Franklin 6:3
20:12,12 expected 46:1,8 factor 3:11 4:5 final 21:9 36:2 frankly 23:7
46:10 4:12 6:14,21 finality 37:11 Friends 33:13
23:6,6 experience 7:24 8:7,22 find 39:5 47:22 front 15:12
24:12 24:13 10:10 13:14 fire 28:17 functionally
explained 35:14 14:11,16,18 firmly 37:15 43:18
27:8,25 41:21 15:20,24 16:1 first 4:25 5:4 fundamentally
29:8,22 explanation 16:12 17:20 11:25 12:10,18 3:24
32:12,24 42:4 19:25 21:3,5,9 14:14 19:24 further 23:20
explicitly 6:1 21:20 23:4,5 21:5,7 32:10 47:16 49:18
34:3 41:9 24:5,13 25:14 33:9 34:9,14 future 18:8,17
36:15 expressed 25:25 25:17,25 26:1 36:6 49:1 47:8
40:6 26:18 26:4,10 27:9 fit 18:7 19:22 future-looking
41:14,16 expresses 43:20 27:23 28:3,6,7 21:18 25:17,24 23:6,7
42:1,6 expressly 7:5 29:13,17,19,22 26:1,9 27:9
43:5 8:10 12:7 29:25 30:6,11 28:1,6 29:13 G
44:1,11 extensive 33:22 30:13 31:25 30:10,13 32:4 g 3:1 12:4 21:5
16:16 gravity 3:15 holds 34:23 49:13,14 12:1,16 13:17
26:14 6:21,23,24 8:3 hole 28:1 includes 40:24 13:17 18:21,22
8:18 9:9,22 Honor 4:24 5:4 including 8:22 24:8,20 26:14
12:9 11:2,8 14:22 12:18 13:22 inconsistent 4:1 48:7 49:12
14:24 17:2,6,15,24 14:3,19 15:5 incorporates insult 17:13
19:8 18:11,18 20:6 17:3,16 18:19 20:9 27:14,15
21:19 21:1,10 31:4 20:7 22:4,13 incorrect 38:9 intelligence
32:5,7 42:21 22:16 23:17 38:11,16 39:4 17:13
32:23 43:9 44:2,21 25:18 26:12,24 39:6 interchangeably
34:1 45:4,10 28:10 29:21 independent 32:11
great 34:23 30:7,19,23 45:11 interestingly
greatest 13:16 31:6 32:9 33:4 indicate 12:13 16:4
23:2 guilty 31:9 43:16,24 45:23 initiative 22:7 interrupt 16:17
40:19 guilt-phase 7:5 46:19 ink 40:11 involve 23:4,5
Honor's 36:6 inquiry 12:23 involved 18:4
12:16 h 26:10 house 43:7 inside 18:8 irreparable 43:1
17:4 18:8 Hailstone's 41:7 hypothetical instance 29:5 issue 23:1 37:10
24:25 42:14 10:21 instruct 16:25 46:21
34:4 happen 12:23 25:7 italicized 31:18
48:11 happened 27:16 I instructed 7:21 items 7:23
happens 19:14 illusory 3:25 3:18 4:6 6:14 Johnson 1:16
44:17 hearing 20:23 41:5 42:10 10:20 11:1 6:17,23 7:17
46:12 27:5 imagine 25:23 12:1,4 13:11 7:22,25 8:9,16
13:18 37:9 immediately 16:2,7,8,13 10:4,13,24
help 46:6 47:7 19:15 17:4,5,20 18:2 11:6,13,16,19
44:15 helped 47:10,10 immutable 43:1 20:24 21:3,14 11:22 12:17
Hern 24:24 25:3 implication 20:9 21:25 22:2,5 13:22 14:2,6
10:5 18:15 45:21 16:6 23:5 26:13,16 15:14 16:1,16
Hern's 41:11 import 32:1 26:23 37:25 16:20 17:3,10
39:12 27:15 44:7 48:11 49:14 19:24 20:7
26:6 27:2,5,8 41:13,19,22 known 36:25 38:24
28:16 29:14,15 42:19 43:8,12 look 37:7 44:22
30:5 32:3,14 43:14,21 44:4 L 45:3,3
34:2 36:15 40:23 lapsed 19:15 loses 38:10
41:25 41:17,23 42:23 K Laughter 15:10 lot 36:23 37:2
44:7 45:7,25 k 3:11 4:5,12 law 49:7 love 33:12
46:21 18:14 26:22 13:15 14:11,16 lesser 11:11 main 18:5 48:20
4:18 5:16,22 16:1,12 17:20 life 7:8,15 8:13 24:22
7:16,18,23 8:1 21:20 23:4,5 32:25 34:4,14 man 7:13
25:3 11:14,15,18,20 28:7 29:13,17 48:18 MARK 1:16 2:3
41:7,11 12:9,25 13:2 29:19,22,25 likelihood 11:24 2:9 3:6 46:17
45:21 13:24 14:4,5 30:6,11,13 13:20 21:16 Marshall 5:17
48:16 14:15,24 15:1 35:13 37:25 36:15 48:7,18 matter 1:12
49:4 15:7,11,24 40:5,14 43:10 limit 10:11 19:10 20:13
7:2,5,9 16:23 17:9,11 47:20,23 48:10 13:11,21 35:13 32:13 44:12
9:12 17:22 18:10,16 49:13 40:7 49:15 49:23
10:14,25 18:24 19:8,20 KENNEDY linchpin 43:23 matters 21:11
12:13,19 19:23 20:2,3 6:11,13,20 lines 10:21 25:11
13:8 21:19 22:1,11 7:16,18,23 8:1 Linite 6:3 mean 5:23 6:20
22:14,19 23:8 30:14,16,24 list 13:4,14,14 11:10 12:10
15:21 23:10,15,22 31:1 35:19,21 13:21 24:25 15:11 16:16
17:4,5 24:1 25:16 43:8,12,14,21 26:19,20,20 22:20 33:1
18:13,21 26:3,5,9 27:7 Kennedy's 27:2,6 36:25
20:5 27:12 28:2,4 42:19 listed 12:3 13:11 meaning 14:11
21:4,6 28:13,15,22 key 24:10 34:8 49:16,16 18:22 21:13
25:4,5,7 29:10,12,24 kill 43:6 listing 13:5,9,9 45:5
42:5 30:3,14,16,20 kind 15:13 14:8 48:12 meaningful 4:15
30:24 31:1,11 31:25 35:8 litigated 23:1,19 means 36:24
31:13,14,17,18 36:2 43:25 little 35:7,24 37:5
11:20 33:20,22 34:1 knock 14:4 38:24 mentioned
15:2,8 35:17,19,20,21 know 19:15 20:9 logical 34:7 12:22
17:13 35:23 36:10,21 22:5 27:3 logically 42:22 merely 8:22 9:2
24:11,12 37:16,22 38:13 28:16 29:24 lone 7:6 12:8 25:6 26:6
38:15 39:10,12 37:22 40:10 long 5:23 26:15 49:5,17
40:2,20,22 41:18 longstanding message 41:10
30:22,25 31:6 paraphrasing Penry 37:8,10
32:9 33:4,21 O 2:1 3:1 Pardon 22:13 people 15:6
36:5,12 37:6 45:21 32:18 perfectly 10:22
48:16 38:21 39:11,14 objection 46:8 8:13,14 performance
41:18 42:2 obligation 25:3 part 32:19 33:17 permissible 9:23
46:10 occurred 4:22 partial 31:24 person 35:9
murdered 29:7 44:12 40:7 Petitioner's 43:3
12:6 N 2:1,1 3:1 offense 20:6 parties 49:8 33:5
13:4,12 naturally 8:17 offered 4:16 parts 26:25 phrase 11:10
17:1 nature 4:16,17 5:10,11 49:4 party 41:16 phrased 26:17
20:13,16 necessarily off-the 46:3 passages 27:19 phrasing 45:4
25:8 13:24 oh 11:22 26:11 patrolled 28:18 place 28:25 29:6
neither 25:9 43:21 pay 9:3 42:9 29:8 30:4 44:6
29:4 41:16 Okay 16:20 Payton 4:3 plain 32:20 45:5
32:12 new 35:25 36:7 27:11,24 30:7 10:17,23 11:1 plan 43:6
44:1 Ninth 3:17,23 31:6 18:3,9 23:13 please 3:9 24:2
49:6,15 4:10 6:8 15:8 old 23:16 28:14 32:12 42:11
18:25 38:3 46:23 22:19 37:20,22 38:8 14:6 20:15
45:16,17 47:23 operating 39:15 38:9,23 39:2,5 21:15 24:23
non-crime-rel... 46:13 47:17 47:17 48:21 31:7,23 34:22
8:6 normal 7:12 oral 1:12 2:2,5 47:19 pointed 5:4,8
23:23,24 noted 18:21 21:11 45:11 41:6 43:2 13:25 16:24
25:18 notice 14:13 penalty-phase 17:12 24:4
notwithstandi... P 3:12 7:6 18:5 28:17 32:3
38:6,17 prior 4:2 9:14 11:11 31:5 reaffirmed reinstruct 25:5
49:9 19:18 25:14 43:9 42:15 reiterated 36:19
8:14 41:8 44:7 47:6 32:24,24 realize 49:9 41:9
48:15 prison 6:15 purposes 4:15 really 19:9 32:8 relate 3:21 6:17
34:16 44:8 14:23 18:13 reason 13:23 21:11 45:6
33:8 34:5 pushing 35:6 39:1,1,3 41:14 33:15 43:18
47:19,22 prize 47:9 put 5:17 14:12 41:20 44:3 49:5
32:13 26:9 41:2,16,23 11:23 13:19 relation 35:4
45:13 p.m 49:22 36:14 38:16,20 relevant 10:16
46:22 proceedings Q 47:21 48:6,18 37:13 43:17
48:1 36:13 42:8 qualification reasonably 48:5,8
47:4 produce 37:1 qualities 5:18 20:24 27:6 39:17,24 40:16
propel 32:25 11:19 12:12 REBUTTAL religion 29:3
14:21 42:3 37:3 41:7,14 receive 8:12 20:14,19 24:12
properly 15:23 41:17,22 42:14 recess 46:12 29:6 33:16
43:2 15:15 49:4,4 recognize 49:1 religious-conv...
prosecutor 12:18 13:18 15:16 religious-expe...
20:16 25:22 48:4,25 49:9 refer 13:9 20:5 relying 27:9
prosecutor's quickly 48:2 13:14 14:8 48:3
20:8 prospects 19:5,6 quoted 27:13 27:10,13,17,20 reported 44:18
33:23 34:15 44:5 requested 24:24
24:25 39:1 R 3:1 reflected 14:8 require 39:24
provision 15:3 Ramos 16:11 regarded 38:19 reservations
41:15 read 37:24 48:3 respect 13:8
38:24 sentence 7:8,8 sparing 44:3 49:21,23
36:24 37:3 sentencer 37:12 special 26:25 37:17 46:25
2:7 23:25 S 14:23 18:14 43:25 sufficiency 3:11
40:21 23:24 separate 9:1 speculate 42:7 suggest 29:2
Sacramento seriousness 6:15 speculating 46:2 47:12 49:2
37:8 San 41:19 set 26:13,14,14 square 27:25 24:14 44:15
saying 5:20 setting 33:24 standard 12:3 49:10
29:1 40:5,8 shoe 34:8,9 standards 39:24 39:16
25:4 28:8,24,24 show 34:4 24:5 40:15 supplemental
26:24 Scalia 5:22 11:4 Sierra 28:18 stated 16:11,14 support 4:10
11:7,14 14:5 significant 18:3 19:25 15:22
23:15 31:14,18 simple 46:14 28:23 44:17 suppose 48:17
45:20 46:5 single 7:12,20 22:1,8 Supreme 1:1,13
17:22 Schick 29:19 Skipper 5:2,3,7 statute 16:3,7,9 22:17 37:24
23:12 Schick's 28:23 5:11 14:18 22:6,7 38:9,11 39:3,5
schizophrenic 27:25 28:1 statutory 21:21 39:11,19 44:19
31:2 35:9 19:9 35:14 36:15,20 22:9 sure 9:18 16:17
second 32:12 40:6,16 42:20 stepping 45:24 20:11,17 22:4
10:17 section 16:4 Skipper-type 10:9 11:15 26:16
23:22 see 28:22 29:20 10:2 16:16,21 17:9 suspect 25:22
35:17 36:5 45:25 society 18:8 17:11,22 18:10 sword 39:17
36:10 seen 14:22 somewhat 42:20 18:16 31:19 synonyms 28:11
38:13 segment 33:15 son 33:12 Stevens's 10:21 32:16
39:10,12 self-defense sort 6:7 20:3 system 18:7
46:15 31:9 sounded 29:15 stick 16:18 23:19
sell 32:3 source 15:25 straightforward
39:17 South 5:2 submit 49:19 12:14 20:2
31:3 threatens 22:21 two 12:5 24:10 various 9:15 we've 5:23 6:6
45:13 threshold 37:10 32:9,10,16 12:3 34:10 34:10
thrust 18:5 47:15 verbatim 16:3 whatsoever 9:13
37:5 40:11 46:21 unconstitutio... 37:18 49:7 wish 40:3
38:18 48:3 14:9 view 3:23 14:9 won 4:21 39:7
times 29:2 understand 6:5 34:19 48:7 47:9
32:11 27:8,22 29:14 understanding 18:4 48:19 23:10 32:23
39:25 34:25 49:6 W
tons 40:10 understands 8:5 want 9:20 16:17 X
totality 36:9 10:10,25 11:21 49:5
33:11,13 unfortunately Washington 1:9 Youth 24:12
41:15 unique 24:7 33:18 45:9
49:20 trial 7:5,6 18:20 unitary 26:20 way 4:1 20:4
32:8 26:24 27:1
43:1 31:22 34:21,23 10:18 37:24 31:11,12 32:20 1
1:14 3:2
41:25 42:3,8 untenable 32:3 48:7
49:22
23:3
15:12 46:3,11 24:15 38:21 20:15
28:23
18:16 trouble 38:17 upbringing weight 44:14
31:19
29:18 true 18:9,10 33:10 well-established
28:23
19:25 use 9:13,16 21:1 37:12
38:18
46:11 trying 27:4 29:7 went 12:10
30:1 32:2 35:6 36:13
36:3 1983 16:10
22:12,15
15:7 turn 22:6 24:4 We'll 3:3
34:2,7 turned 48:23 we're 29:23
35:4 turning 24:23 36:16 38:10
1987 36:19
43:23 turns 24:6 39:15 46:12
16:15 40:4
1:10
2:7 23:16
1:10 2:4 40:4
2:10
4:24 5:11
46:16
24:3
15:22
27:13,15 31:14
