IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
PAT OSBORN, :
Petitioner, :
v. : No. 05-593
BARRY HALEY, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, October 30, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United
States at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ERIC GRANT, ESQ., Sacramento, Cal.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ., Assistant to the
Solicitor General, Department of Justice,
Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ERIC GRANT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 22
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ERIC GRANT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 47
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Osborn v. Haley.
Mr. Grant.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC GRANT
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. GRANT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The court of appeals misinterpreted the
Westfall Act in a way that unfairly deprives tort
plaintiffs of the most basic procedural protections
routinely afforded in both Federal and State courts.
That misinterpretation cannot be reconciled with the
text and history of the statute, the nature and
operation of official immunity or the jurisdictional
limitations of article III. Accordingly, the judgment
of the court of appeals should be reversed and this
State law case should be remanded to the State courts
where it rightfully belongs. In the alternative, the
court of appeals judgment should be vacated for lack of
appellate jurisdiction.
Prior to the Westfall Act, courts considered
whether, assuming the alleged acts occurred, the Federal
employee was acting within the scope of his employment.
In Westfall v. Erwin, this Court added the additional
requirement that the acts be undertaken with a
discretionary function, but invited Congress to address
the issue. In responding with the Westfall Act,
Congress did not change the basic rule that scope of
employment sets the line for immunity. Indeed, Congress
confirmed that rule. In particular, Congress gave no
hint that it was radically rewriting the rules to direct
Federal district courts to determine the merits of
wholly State law claims in some sort of unprecedented
summary proceeding.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why is it a wholly State
law claim if the principal matter is whether this
Federal employee is immune from suit? That's the
threshold question that has to be answered. It's
determined wholly by Federal law, so you must get
through that Federal law gateway before you can go any
place else in the suit.
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, that is true in
perhaps a majority of Westfall Act cases, but in cases
like this and a significant and recurring subset of
cases there is no Federal law question because scope of
employment simply is not at issue. What the Government
does in those subset of cases is merely to assert the
defense of he didn't do it or it never happened.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that -- it's not it
never happened as though the Federal employee was off in
Hong Kong. He was there on the premises. He is
claiming that whatever he did was within the scope of
his authority. It seems like it's a question of
phraseology that you're dealing with.
MR. GRANT: With respect, Your Honor, that
is not the case, certainly in this case and in others.
The Government has conceded that if Respondent Barry
Haley acted as alleged in the complaint he was acting
outside the course and scope of his Federal employment.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I think Justice
Ginsburg's point, and it concerns me as well, is that
the Government is entitled to say that during the time
the event occurred, i.e., the firing, he was on duty and
he refrained from committing any unlawful act.
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, there may be cases
where even if the acts occurred, they were within the
course and scope of the Federal employment. But in the
case like this, as in Wood versus United States, as in
Melo v. Hafer in the Third Circuit, the Government
concedes, because the law and the facts require the
Government and the employee to concede, that if the
alleged acts took place they were necessarily outside
the scope of employment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the actual
statutory language refers to acting within the scope of
employment at the time of the incident, and so a
certification based on the view that at the time of the
alleged incident, he was acting entirely within his
scope would seem to be within the language of the
statute.
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, on its face the
certification in this case, as in others, tracks the
statutory language. But when the Government's position
was examined in the district court, it became apparent
that the Government's essential defense, in fact
supported by two declarations, including the declaration
of Respondent Haley, was that he simply did not do the
acts alleged.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but the question is
what the district court should examine, and the statute
talks about the incident out of which the claim arose.
So that necessarily requires the Government to look at
the complaint, see the incident out of which this claim
arises, whether or not the claim is true, and to certify
it.
MR. GRANT: Your Honor --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: "Out of which the claim
arose" it seems to me is of some importance. But the
dissenting judges in the First Circuit case, Wood,
didn't think it was important. I'm not sure they were
right about that.
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, this Court has
consistently made a distinction between immunity and the
merits. Starting in cases like Mitchell versus Forsyth
in 1985 and continuing through cases like Richardson
versus McKnight in 1997, the Court has consistently
recognized that immunity is different from a defense on
the merits. It's different from a defense of he didn't
do it or it never happened. And I would say that,
although the time of the incident is important, that is
only one of several factors certainly under Kentucky law
in determining whether something happened within the
course and scope of employment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well how is it -- I
mean, that line is awfully difficult to draw. You assert
he didn't do it versus something else. But it's easy,
let's say it's an assault case and the person says, you
hit me, and the person says, well, it was entirely an
accident; I was gesticulating with my hand so it wasn't,
wouldn't have met the requirements for the tort. Now,
are they denying the incident in that case?
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, the Court in Wood v.
United States took account of the possibilities of
artful pleading and would allow the Government to
challenge the characterization of the incident.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it's not just a
characterization. If it's something that has, for
example, a mental element, the plaintiff can assert, you
did that with malice aforethought and the defendant can
say, no, I didn't. Now, is that a characterization or
is that a denial of the incident?
MR. GRANT: I believe that's a
characterization, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why isn't it the denial of
an element of the claim? There's no recovery for
assault if the mental element is what the Chief Justice
just described in his hypo, and if in fact that is an
element of the claim how do you draw a distinction
between that and the existence or nonexistence of any
act at all.
MR. GRANT: There are, Your Honor, certain
cases in which --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I'm not asking about
certain cases. I just want to know analytically how you
do it or how you think we're supposed to do it.
MR. GRANT: There are cases in which the
merits and the immunity defense overlap and in those
cases the district courts are fully empowered to make
factual findings.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, in this case the
immunity defense is, number one, as you said, the
Government forthrightly said at the beginning right in
terms of the statute that he was acting within the scope
of his employment. Secondarily, as you said, the
Government in effect elaborated on that and said the
reason he was not acting outside the scope of his
employment is that these acts which would have been
outside scope didn't happen. Why is that any
different from the claim in the Chief Justice's hypo
that there was no intent to harm?
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, because a claim of,
that the alleged act did not occur, that he didn't do
it, is not a claim of immunity. Again, this --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's a claim upon which the
immunity depends. The immunity is claimed -- the
immunity claimed here is that at the time in question he
was not acting outside the scope of his employment. The
reason he was not acting outside the scope was that he
didn't do what they say he did.
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, I'm sorry if I have
the same answer to the question, but again, this Court's
jurisprudence has consistently distinguished between
defenses, so to speak, on the merits, a claim that the
alleged act did not occur, that one of the elements of
the State law claim is not met.
JUSTICE ALITO: In this case, if Mr. Haley
had said, I had some conversations with the private
employer and the plaintiff's name was mentioned during
the conversations, but I never told them to discharge
her, would this, would that be something -- would your
argument apply there?
MR. GRANT: It would apply, Your Honor, if,
if that factual determination were relevant to scope of
employment under the applicable law, namely the agency
law of Kentucky.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, is it? I mean,
that's -- the problem that I have with your argument,
Mr. Grant, is that in life things are often not, it
happened or it didn't happen. There is a middle
ground, which is this officer is saying, I was there at
the relevant time or place and when I was there
everything that I did was within the scope of my
employment, I didn't do anything that was outside the
scope of my employment.
MR. GRANT: There are cases in which there
is a middle ground, Your Honor. But this case is not
one of them, and there is certainly a distinct and
recurring subset of cases, like Wood and Melo and
Kimbro, where it is conceded on the facts and the law
that if the actions occurred, they occurred outside the
scope of employment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand why
anyone would want to come out the way you urge us to
come out. Why would it make any sense to give a Federal
employee the benefit of trial in Federal court when he
committed the act, and then you debate about whether it
was, whether there was liability or not, and yet deprive
him of the benefit of a Federal court when he denies
that he did anything at all? Why would you want one set
of cases to remain in the State court and the other set
of cases to go to Federal court?
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, it's Congress that
set the line at scope of employment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I mean, that's what
we're debating, whether the line is there or not, and as
you've seen from the discussion, there is at least some
ambiguity in it. There being ambiguity, why should we
find a line that doesn't make any sense?
MR. GRANT: Well, Your Honor, I believe that
line does make sense because if the Government's view is
adopted and the view of the majority of the court of
appeals, the merits of the wholly State law claim will
be resolved in Federal court and resolved in a
procedural context that denies a tort plaintiff the
right to discovery, that denies the tort plaintiff a
right to the normal evidentiary presumptions on a motion
to dismiss or motion for summary judgment, and denies
that tort plaintiff the right to a jury trial.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that can happen when in
fact the certification of the Attorney General turns out
to be wrong and there isn't any immunity. Still, the
whole thing is going to be tried in Federal court.
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, in that situation,
the merits will at least be tried under the normal
provisions for discovery and evidentiary presumptions,
even if it does ultimately proceed against the United
States.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But Mr. Grant, I'm a
little puzzled. Why is the discovery in the Federal
system any less valuable in the State system?
MR. GRANT: Because what the Government
advocates here, as I think most starkly illustrated by
the Third Circuit's decision in Melo v. Hafer is some
sort of summary proceeding that takes place before the
normal processes of Federal litigation. After all, it's
the Government's position that this employee is immune.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't that only summary
for the purpose of deciding whether the removal was
proper?
MR. GRANT: It's for the purpose of deciding
scope of employment, but the Government's interpretation
of that phrase encompasses essentially the merits of the
case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not for
deciding whether removal -- I thought the statute says
that the Attorney General's certification is conclusive
with respect to removal.
MR. GRANT: It is conclusive, Your Honor, in
those cases that truly do implicate scope of employment.
In this case, by contrast, the certification was
essentially to raise the he didn't do it or it never
happened defense.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what does it
mean to say that the certification is conclusive with
respect to scope of employment for purposes of removal
if it doesn't mean that it's conclusive, if you're going
to have judicial review that is going to address the
question of removal as opposed to the validity of the
certification on the merits?
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, it's conclusive
where it satisfies the definition in the statute. What
is conclusive in the final sentence of paragraph (d)(2)
of section 2679 is this certification, and this
certification of course is the one referred to earlier
in that paragraph.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you're saying
it's only conclusive if it's right?
MR. GRANT: No, Your Honor. It's only, it
can be conclusive right or wrong, but it's only
conclusive if it satisfies the statutory definition,
being about scope of employment, not about the merits.
In this case, for example, there never will be, never
could be a true scope of employment determination, the
Government having conceded it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose, Mr. Grant, that
the district court had said, I'm going to deny the
substitution of the United States as the defendant, but
I realize that this is a debatable question, so I'm not
going to order a remand until the defendant and the United
States have had a chance to challenge my initial ruling
that I deny the substitution of the United States.
Suppose that it had happened that way? Would you have any
right to get back in the State court? Wouldn't that
properly go to a court of appeals?
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, that, that could
certainly go to the court of appeals under the
discretionary appeal procedure in section 1292(b), or
perhaps by mandamus.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, suppose that
happened, and then the court of appeals said the United
States should have been substituted?
MR. GRANT: That would -- that would on its
merits restrict the district court from remanding, but
of course in this case, the district court did enter an
order of remand based on its interpretation of section
2679.
JUSTICE ALITO: But your position is that
the Attorney General's certification is conclusive --
is not conclusive in those situations in which the
Attorney General doesn't draw the line properly between
an event denying answer and an event characterizing
answer? Whenever the Attorney General is wrong on that
very nuanced decision in some instances, then the
Attorney General's certification is not conclusive?
MR. GRANT: The short answer is yes, Your
Honor. The Attorney General's certification is not
conclusive where it does not satisfy the statutory
definition, where it is not a certification that truly
implicates scope of employment. We have tried to draw
the distinction between an unauthorized or improper
certification, one that doesn't meet the statutory
definition, and a certification as, as the Court in
Aliota versus Graham said was wrong or erroneous on its
merits, so to speak, on the facts, on the law, of State
agency law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Grant, these items
we've been discussing are perhaps the more important
features of the case. But your argument in your brief
didn't begin with those. It began with the assertion
that there is no jurisdiction to review the district
court's remand order at all. I take it you're not
abandoning that, are you?
MR. GRANT: Absolutely not, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Then why was it first in
your brief and not first in your argument?
MR. GRANT: It was first in my brief because
this Court ordered me to brief and address it, and I was
happy to do so. The court of appeals in fact did lack
jurisdiction in this case. This Court has made clear as
recently as the Kircher opinion last term that section
1447(d) means what it says. And in this case, the
district court entered an order remanding the case to
the State court from which it was removed, and 1447(d),
of course, bars review of that order by appeal or
otherwise.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There is at least
considerable tension with 1447(d), though, and
2679(d)(2), in that that specifically says that for
purposes of removal, the Attorney General's certification
is conclusive. And it doesn't, if you look at 2679, it
suggests, you'd think that case would proceed in Federal
court rather than be immediately remanded without the
availability of review.
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, on the merits of the
interpretation of 2679(d)(2), we tried to explain why
conclusive does not operate in a case like this, but I
think the important point for jurisdiction is that this
Court has consistently said that even if a district
court misinterprets a jurisdictional statute, that
review is nonetheless barred by section 1447(d).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is a different
type of jurisdictional statute in that there is concern
on Congress's part here to provide a Federal forum for
the adjudication of whether something is within the
scope of a Federal employee's duty. It's not
inconceivable, but it would seem illogical to
specifically provide for review of that determination
but then have that review take place in State court
rather than Federal court.
MR. GRANT: Well, Your Honor, Congress
obviously knows how to make exceptions to section
1447(d). I believe it was footnote eight of this
Court's opinion in Kircher that cited a number of
examples. The Government in its brief relied on 12
U.S.C. section 1441(a), and that statute which involved
the Resolution Trust Corporation specifically refers to
appeal and remand. And so what this Court has said is,
the bar of section 1447(d), which has been around for
more than a century, is not to be ignored unless there
is a clear statutory command that makes an exception.
JUSTICE ALITO: But here not only, not only
does it say that the Attorney General's certification is
conclusive for purposes of removal, but there is no
mention about remand in relation to a case that is
removed after the Attorney General's certification.
Whereas by contrast, where the Attorney General doesn't
certify and the case is removed, the statute does
address the issue of remand. So if you put those two
things together, isn't it perfectly clear that Congress
did not want these cases that are removed on the
Attorney General's certification to be remanded?
MR. GRANT: No, Your Honor. The authority
to remand in this case proceeds from subsection C of
section 1447. As this Court has said in various cases,
including the International Primate Protection League
case in 1991, when a Federal district court lacks
subject matter jurisdiction because a case, a party
attempting to remove has done so without authority to do
so, section 1447(c) obliges a remand.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would have thought your
answer would have been even if, even if the remand was
improper, even if it is the case that, what is it,
(d)(2) envisions that the suit remain in the Federal
court. Nonetheless, if there is an erroneous remand, it
is still a remand that is covered by the prohibition of
review. I mean, we said in other cases that even when
the remand is wrong, the remand is not reviewable.
MR. GRANT: That is my answer, Your Honor.
Section (d)(2) goes, gives direction to district courts,
but section 1447(d) gives direction to appellate courts.
JUSTICE BREYER: If that's your answer, can
I go back to the other main issue for a second? I would
have thought that your case, unfortunately for you in my
mind, is the classic case where there should be
jurisdiction because the AG is supposed to say look, I
don't think anything happened, okay? So he was doing
his job all day. But if something did happen, I'll tell
you what, it was within the scope of his employment.
And apparently, that's just what they did say here. And
then it got mixed up in the courts below. In other
words, if he made some phone calls and even if he
mentioned the employee, even if he said something
improper, it was within the scope of his employment,
which is just what they said. So because of that, it
seems to me this makes a lot of complexity out of
nothing. Now you explain what your answer is.
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, with respect, I
believe the Attorney General said just the opposite,
that --
JUSTICE BREYER: In the district court he
didn't say, if something happened here, it was in the
scope of his employment? I thought he had. Maybe he
hadn't. I thought he had, but I'll ask him that.
MR. GRANT: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: In the district court I
thought he said that.
MR. GRANT: The Attorney General's
submission, the Government's submission in the district
court was that nothing happened.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it was there first,
but you can argue in the defense alternative, I think
nothing happened. But if the plaintiff can convince a
jury otherwise, fine, but then what they can convince
him of is within the scope of his employment. Now did
that happen in the district court, that they said
something like that or not?
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, the Government did
make what it called an alternative argument.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why can't they do
that, which is just what Wood says they can do, if
anybody, you know, thinks that's valid? But the --
what's the problem then? Because I would have thought
that the reason this case appears difficult is because
yours is a case where the AG should be able to come in
and remove it.
MR. GRANT: The district court, the very
same district court that the Government so, so
desperately wants to review the facts of this case, said
that given Mr. Haley's declaration under penalty of
perjury, it would not accept that alternative.
JUSTICE BREYER: But it's wrong in that,
isn't it?
MR. GRANT: Well, the Government did not
appeal that point in the court of appeals, and in fact --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, the Wood issue was
the issue of where if anything happened, of course it's
outside the scope. It's like one employee shoots
another, you know. There is nothing to do with scope of
employment there, it's plainly outside. And of course,
this act, in my view then, then, was that this is not an
act that allows the AG to defend that kind of thing.
But if it's arguable at least that something happened,
if it happened at all it was within the scope of
employment, the AG can defend it.
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, the Government --
JUSTICE BREYER: What's the problem with --
there should be a problem with what I say from your
point of view, so --
MR. GRANT: I think the problem is in the
record, Your Honor, and the Government's brief at the,
at the petition stage on page 14 in note five quotes its
own appellate brief in the court of appeals, and that
brief says the memorandum of understanding between the
Forest Service and the private respondent showed that if
Haley did cause the contractor to fire Osborn, he acted
outside the scope of his employment. And the court of
appeals quite logically took that --
JUSTICE BREYER: So you're saying they have
abandoned the argument?
MR. GRANT: They have Your Honor and the
court of appeals recognized that on page 3a of the
petition appendix. If the Court has no further
questions I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Grant. Mr. Hallward-Driemeier.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Mr. Chief Justice
and may it please the Court:
In the Westfall Act Congress provided an
absolute immunity for Federal employees for acts
taken within the scope of their employment and it
went further and provided that when the Attorney
General certifies that the employee was acting
within the scope of his employment at the time of
the incident out of which the claim arose, that that
issue of Federal immunity is to be decided by the
Federal court. It is the Attorney General's assertion
of this Federal defense of immunity that satisfies
article III just as the employee's own assertion of
immunity satisfies article III under the Federal Officer
Removal statute and just as a, in other circumstances a
plaintiff's assertion of a claim under Federal law
satisfies article III.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what if the
Attorney General certifies and removes a case in a
criminal case, a case clearly not within the statute?
What happens then?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, I think that
the, the -- that would probably be a defect in removal
procedure rather than a jurisdictional defect but even
if it is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, on the
procedure, he follows the procedure meticulously; it's
just wrong. It's a criminal case. The statute says he
can do it in a civil case. On the other hand the statute
also says that his certification is conclusive.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, Your Honor
even if that is a case that would be removed without
jurisdiction, that case is quite different from this
case because this case --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, this one is a
civil one and that's a criminal, but I'm just
trying to understand how broad your argument that this
is not subject to further review goes.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, the issue
that is not subject to further review for purposes of
jurisdiction is the Attorney General's certification
that the employee was acting within scope. The
statute doesn't provide that the Attorney General's
certification that it is a civil action is conclusive
but only the Attorney General's certification that the
employee was acting within scope is conclusive for
purposes of removal. That's the essential element of
the Federal defense and that's what satisfies article
III jurisdiction. And in fact, this Court in the
Willingham case recognized that an employee could assert
a claim of Federal immunity even though he was also at
the same time denying that he caused any harm to the
plaintiff.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well I thought your
analogy to Willingham was a strong one until you go back
and read the statute. Willingham is a very different
statutory predicate. It's acting under color of law.
This is much more specific. At the time of the
incident, he was acting within his scope, so I'm not
sure the analogy holds up.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well if anything
the language of the Westfall Act is broader because as
Your Honor emphasized earlier, the statute, the Westfall
act provides that the Attorney General is to certify
that at the time of the incident out of which the claim
arose the employee was acting within the scope. So
arguably the necessary question is what was the employee
doing at the time. The Federal Officer Removal statute
is somewhat narrower because it requires that the claim
arise out of the, the acts taken under color of office.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But yet that would
be a good argument if the statute said the Attorney
General can certify that the employee did not do
anything outside the scope of his employment, but it's
phrased in the affirmative. He has to certify that he
was acting within the scope of his employment.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That's right. And
that's what the Attorney General did here, certified
that Mr. Haley was acting within the scope of his
employment at the time of the incident out of which the
claim arose. And as several --
JUSTICE BREYER: So that's the issue then.
And what I -- is my, my question for you is this, let's
imagine not this case, which as I said I think is too
complicated and probably is one that the Government
should be able to defend, but suppose it's an assault
like Wood's, a sexual assault and there is absolutely no
doubt that if it happened it was outside the scope of
employment, everybody concedes it but Government. And
the Government's position is, nothing happened. All
right? Nothing happened. You say Government, would you
like to argue that if something happened, and they may
be able to prove something, something like a movement?
No, we agree there was nothing like that, we agree
nothing like that happened; we are not going to defend
on any scope of employment ground. All we are arguing
is that ordinary work went on and that was within the
scope of employment. Now, does this act cover it or
not? Your view is yes and you read, you know I thought
it was a close question but you read what I thought the
other way in Wood, though it was obviously a close
question. So what is your basic response to that?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: You are correct
that our view is that yes, the Attorney General can
certify in that case. The issue is really one along a
continuum as I think Your Honor has recognized. Of on,
on the one extreme, one might say that the Attorney
General must accept all of the plaintiff's allegations
as true. And, and I don't think that anybody here is
arguing that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was the position of
the district court, though, wasn't it?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That was the
position of the district court, although I don't think
the Petitioner is now advocating that view. And that
view would certainly be inconsistent; it would create
the anomaly that the Attorney General's authority to
certify scope and to assert the immunity on behalf of
the employee would be narrower than the employee's own
authority to assert the immunity, because again going back
to the Willingham case, the Court never asked whether it
would be within the scope of employment for the prison
officials to have maliciously tortured the prisoner;
rather the defense was we didn't harm the prisoner but
anything that happened between us and the prisoner
happened within the scope of our employment. And so the
Attorney General's authority to certify has to be at
least as broad as that in our view.
JUSTICE BREYER: The basic point I think in
Wood is this. I'm the district judge. And the
Government, you come in and argue in the alternative.
Nothing happened, but if it did happen it was within the
scope of employment and they say there is no
possibility. You'd say, plaintiff, I want to know here
if there is a reasonable chance, maybe any chance, that
a jury could find that something went on here that was
within the scope of employment that shouldn't have. And
if the answer to that question is no, the defendant wins
either because of summary judgment or because -- no,
sorry. I've gotten lost in what I said. Do you follow
it?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: The -- I think I do.
In our view --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Good, I'm glad
that someone did.
[Laughter.]
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: In our view, it
would be anomalous that the, that the more innocent
employee would be deprived of the benefits of the
Westfall Act, and if I could use a more simple --
JUSTICE BREYER: I was talking really about
practicality of it. I don't think you can give me a
case that is going to be hard for me as a district judge
to decide because I'm going to ask you, the Government,
to tell me if anything went on here that might have been
within the scope of employment. And I look at what
you're saying; if you say no, if you say no you can't
defend it. If you say yes, you can defend it and that's
going to be the end of it as long as your view is based
on a reasonable reading of the record.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, I don't think
that that could be the end of it. As Justice Ginsburg
pointed out, reality is much murkier than the black or
white and even in the hypothetical that Your Honor
poses, it is quite possible that as the case progresses,
the plaintiff is going to attempt to introduce evidence
that is much more ambiguous as to whether the employee
was acting within the scope or not.
If I could use a simple example of assault.
If the, if a supervisor is dressing down her employee
for, for inadequate work, the employee then sues the
supervisor alleging that she assaulted her, shaking her
fist right under her nose, threatening harm to her.
Even if that would be outside the scope of employment,
the employee might say -- the supervisor rather might
say, I never raised my hand at all. I raised my voice
certainly but I never raised my hand. A third party
witness may say well I saw the supervisor wag her finger
at the employee but not in a threatening fashion. Now --
JUSTICE BREYER: And as long as a jury could
find that there is a view of the record such that the
plaintiff might prove something wrong that it was within
the scope of employment, such as finger wagging that
hits her forehead, for example, you can defend it.
What's the problem?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, if the
employee --
JUSTICE BREYER: The only problem is if you
admit that you can't prove anything like that.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: If the employee was
acting within the scope of the employment when she
wagged a finger, then a fortiori she was acting within
the scope of her employment when she didn't raise her
hand at all.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, not a fortiori, for the
reason that Congress wrote this statute not to give the
defendant the right to call in the Government to defend
him no matter what he did. The reason that Congress
wrote the statute was to repeal the Westfall case, which
was a question of the scope of immunity, which was the
question of the scope of Government responsibility to
take away that limited determination in Westfall. That
was the only point. Congress could have written a
statute the way. What's your response to that?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: But Congress made,
established an absolute immunity where the employee was
acting within the scope of employment, and Petitioner
agrees that scope of employment is the essential
question for immunity. So if in my hypothetical the
supervisor was acting within the scope of her employment
when she dressed down, raising her voice but not raising
her fist, her, her subordinate, then she is protected by
the Westfall Act from a claim arising out of the context
of that employment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But what happens in a
case where the certification is clearly wrong? I mean,
you get into a fight with your neighbor. It's got
nothing to do with your employment at all but the
Attorney General certifies that it does. You know:
"They are always thinking about your cases. You must
have been thinking about it at the time." That
certification goes into the district court. The
district court looks at it and says this is ridiculous,
throws it out, then that State law assault case proceeds
in Federal court?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Your Honor, the
Congress enacted the Westfall Act against the
presumption of regularity of Federal officials and that
is of course what this Court has often said as well, and
so I don't think we should construe the statute on the
presumption that the Attorney General would, would
certify ridiculous cases.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well what about the,
Lamagno, where the question was, was the employee
working within the scope of his employment or was he off
on a frolic of his own? I think that's the kind of
question that the Chief Justice put to you. The
certification, if it were wrong, the Attorney General
said what he was doing was within the scope of
employment and turned out he was on a drunken binge with
his friends and they got in his car and killed someone.
If that certification within the scope was wrong and
instead he is on a frolic of his own, then the United
States isn't substituted.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That's right. That
would mean that the district court did not on the merits
ultimately uphold the defense of immunity, but as the
Court said in Mesa, the merits of the immunity defense
have nothing whatsoever to do with the question of
jurisdiction.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that that case
was about, was the certification reviewable?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That's right.
Lamagno was about whether the certification was
reviewable. Your Honor is also correct about the facts
of that case. One of the points of dispute between the
Government and the plaintiffs there was whether
Mr. Lamagno was drunk at the time of the accident, and,
and the Attorney General certified on his understanding
that Mr. Lamagno was not drunk. And that was upheld by
the district court on remand after some discovery and
summary judgment type litigation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the Court said that
that could be reviewed.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That's right. It
can be reviewed and the Attorney General's certification
is not conclusive for purposes of the substitution.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Right.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: It is conclusive
for purposes of the court's removal jurisdiction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What does that mean? Does
that mean that if the district court finds that in fact
the defendant was not acting within the scope of his
employment, the United States is eliminated as the
defendant and the individual employee is resubstituted?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Yes, Your Honor.
That's what happened. But, and in that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where, where does that come
from?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, the procedure
for what happens upon the district court's review is not
spelled out in the Westfall Act, neither is the review
itself in particular. But the, the employee --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe the United States
should remain the party defendant and the United States
should pay which would be the, you know, the price of
the Attorney General's certification. He should be
careful what he certifies.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, the uniform
view of the lower courts is that when the certification is
overturned, the effect is to resubstitute the employee
as the defendant and it proceeds in Federal court as a
pendent claim. The Attorney General's assertion of the
defense of immunity which we presume to be colorable
because we presume regularity by the Attorney General,
confers article III jurisdiction on the courts, even
though it may ultimately on the merits be rejected.
This Court held in the Carnegie-Mellon case that the
district courts have discretion whether to exercise
jurisdiction over pendent claims once the Federal
question has been resolved. If the courts have
discretion to exercise that pendent jurisdiction, then
certainly Congress can instruct them to exercise that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they wouldn't
have discretion in that case, though, because the
statute says the Attorney General's certification is
conclusive for purposes of removal.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That's right.
Congress has removed the discretion in this class of
cases and says that the courts must retain jurisdiction.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought maybe your
answer, one alternative answer, would have been that you
can't remand the case but you can still dismiss it.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, the, perhaps,
perhaps that's so. Certainly Carnegie-Mellon --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It would still be
conclusive for purposes of removal, but it doesn't mean
it's conclusive for purposes of subject matter
jurisdiction.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: By its text, the
statute speaks to removal and that the Attorney
General's certification is conclusive for purposes of
removal. But I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Couldn't it be conclusive
for purposes of removal jurisdiction, but still leave
the district court with discretion to remand on the
grounds that, although it had removal jurisdiction, in
fact the premise of that removal jurisdiction was wrong,
and it would therefore remand, in effect, because the
only claim it had before it was the equivalent of a
pendent claim.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: But the -- as the
Court held in Carnegie-Mellon, a remand of pendent claims
after the Federal issue has been resolved is not a
remand for lack of subject matter jurisdiction within
the meaning of 1447(c). Rather, it is a discretionary
remand under the doctrine of pendent jurisdiction, and
so --
JUSTICE SOUTER: In that case it would be
reviewable.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: And it would be
reviewable. That's why -- that's one of the reasons why
the district court's order here is reviewable, because
it is not an order of remand authorized by 1447(c)
because, first of all, Congress has instructed the
courts that they are not to remand.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's, that's what the
district court said it was, though, isn't it? Didn't it
-- wasn't the district court remanding for lack of
jurisdiction?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: It is certainly
true that the district court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you want us to review
the, the assertion of the district court that it was
remanding for, I mean that would mean every case would,
would be reviewable.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: No, Your Honor,
because here the Court need not go beyond the face of
the district court's order to understand what it was
doing. The court exercised jurisdiction over the
Federal question that was properly brought before it by
the Attorney General's certification and this Court's
decision in Lamagno. After resolving that, the district
court said, having concluded that the United States is
not a proper party to this case, the court must now
determine whether or not it has jurisdiction, and it
also said that the absence of the U.S. as a party to the
case destroys the court's jurisdiction. So it's evident
that the court understood that it had jurisdiction and
that it was a subsequent event that deprived it.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me go back to the
Chief Justice's hypo a little earlier. Could the
district judge at that point dismiss the case without
prejudice to refiling in the State court?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: I don't think that
that would be consistent with Congress's intent. The --
in all of the Government --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It would be consistent
with the court having jurisdiction to dispose of the
case.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That is true. But
I think that the intent of Congress was the same as this
Court, all the members of this Court, recognized in
Lamagno. In Lamagno, even the dissenters, the
plurality, all acknowledged what Congress intended by
the "conclusive for purposes of removal" language was to
prevent the shuttling back and forth of the case. Once
it was removed, it was to stay in Federal court. That
was what Congress intended. And one reason --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then it's more than
pendent jurisdiction, because pendent jurisdiction
leaves it up to the Federal court to either retain the
State claim or send it back. So this is -- what you're
suggesting is something other than pendent jurisdiction.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That's right. By
pendent jurisdiction what, what I meant to convey was
that it is within the Court's article III jurisdiction
to exercise jurisdiction over the State law claims that
were pendent to a Federal claim. Under this Court's
judicially developed doctrine of pendent jurisdiction,
that is discretionary with the court. But if it is
discretionary with the court, then certainly Congress
can mandate that the court exercise that jurisdiction
and that it would be consistent with article III.
But another reason why Congress would have
wanted the case to remain in Federal court even if the
certification is overturned is, as we've alluded to
before, the development of the case subsequent to the
certification substitution decision may, may illustrate
that the plaintiff's claim does indeed assert facts that
were within the scope of employment. The court would at
the very --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the
jurisdiction wouldn't depend on that. Justice Ginsburg's
point that there's more than pendent jurisdiction here I
take it is because these are not separate State claims
appended to what you thought was a Federal claim. This
is the same claim that you initially thought was a
Federal claim and then it turned into a purely State law
claim, and that may be analyzed quite differently for
purposes of jurisdiction.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: No. The case is I
think not distinguishable from removals under the
Federal Officer Removal statute, where Congress has
indicated that it is the Federal defense that confers
jurisdiction rather than the Federal claim. Then, the
ultimate merits of the Federal defense are irrelevant to
the jurisdictional issue. And the Court --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So you're saying there are
two claims, one claim is raised by the defense, and if
you look at that claim which is by definition Federal,
then it's fair to look at the original State claim by
analogy as a pendent claim?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is that fair?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What happens if the
Attorney General doesn't certify and it goes to State
court? I take it one of the concerns we have here is
that there will be a deprivation of jury trial if the
certification is wrong and if it's in Federal court.
Suppose that there is a denial of certification. Then
under (d)(3) --
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: (D)(3).
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- the employee can ask
for a certification decision. I take it that's a
Federal law defense that the, or a Federal law
point, that the State court must hear and so now we're
back in State court?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And we still don't have a
jury trial and if that's so I'm not sure if that helps
you or helps the Petitioner.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, I think that
Your Honor's point illustrates that this issue of Federal
law is one that Congress has mandated be resolved at the
outset by the judge, and if the employee petitions for
certification over the Attorney General's objection the
statute allows the Attorney General to remove the
petition to Federal court and the statute states that
the district court shall find and certify whether the
employee was acting within the scope.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in my case I guess I
don't think it ever gets to district court because
there's no certification, but then the employee can ask
the State court to have a bench trial on the scope of
employment. Am I right about that?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: He can, you are
correct. It is at the option of the Attorney General
under (d)(3) to remove the case at that point so that
the review of his noncertification happens in Federal
court. (D)(3), in stark contrast to (d)(2), provides
that if the district court holds that the Attorney
General was correct that the employee was not acting
within the scope the case is to be remanded to State
court. So the presence of the remand --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But my point is I suppose
the Government can just say, we're not going to make the
certification and we're not going to remove.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So then the State court
still has to have the bench trial on the scope of
employment.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That's right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure if that helps.
It seems to me that might be an argument for limiting
the inquiry just so that we can avoid having bench
trials in almost every case.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: The -- I think what
that illustrates is that Congress wanted the issue of
immunity resolved at the outset of the case by the
court. And one reason that that is so essential under
the Westfall Act FTCA scheme is that if the immunity --
if the scope of employment issue is resolved in favor of
the employee, that has many, many consequences,
including that the United States is the proper
defendant, exclusive jurisdiction lies in the Federal
court, the case must be dismissed until an
administrative claim is filed and that avenue is
exhausted.
All of these procedural and substantive
defenses come into play depending on how the scope of
employment issue is resolved.
JUSTICE BREYER: Right, but that's the
strongest argument I thought the other way initially,
that suppose the issue is whether he is on a frolic of
his own. That you resolve in a bench trial. If the
answer he was, okay, it stays in the Federal court
anyway. I understand that.
But if you're going to take your position
whether, say, it's a sexual assault as it was in Wood
and the question is well, was there a sexual assault or
not, and if there was it's clearly outside of the scope
of employment, well, then you're going to have all these
things resolved in a bench trial and actually it's
supposed to normally be before a jury, for example.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that so? If the
employee is resubstituted, it's going on now, the United
States is not a party, just the Federal employee, but
it's staying in Federal court under this pendent
jurisdiction-like theory, wouldn't either party be
entitled to a jury trial?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Yes. Yes, Your
Honor. I think Justice Breyer's question, though, had
to do with the procedure at the certification review
stage. That is to be done by the district court sitting
without jury and that's because under the statute the
Attorney General's certification has the legal effect of
making the United States the defendant. The United
States -- the action shall be deemed an action against
the United States and the United States shall be
substituted, and that is true unless and until the
certification is overturned. And there is of course no
Seventh Amendment right to jury trial against the United
States.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Grant, could I come
back for -- I'm sorry. I have the wrong counsel. Mr.
Hallward-Driemeier --
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: I'll respond to
anything, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is your response to
the application of 1447(d)? You say that it does not
apply where it's apparent on the face that the remand is
improper?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That the remand was
not one of the remands authorized by 1447(c) --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right, right.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Not just that it
was erroneous.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wouldn't somebody always be
able to bring an appeal asserting that to be the case --
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And wouldn't that destroy
the whole purpose of 1447(d), which is to stop this
ping-pong?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: No, Your Honor, I
think not. And we have two arguments that both the
issues, substitution and remand, are appealable. One is
a very specific one and that is that Congress has
categorically taken this kind of remand outside the
court's authority under 1447(c) by specifically
prohibiting remand at all in 2679(d)(2), and that
argument of course would not have relevance, I don't
think, much beyond this case. And this Court has
recognized that Congress can exempt a certain class of
orders from the scope of 47(c) and (d) without
cross-referencing those provisions. In the Rice case,
the Court said that that specific removal provision did
not purport to impair or restrict the application of the
then equivalents of 747(c) and (d). But clearly
2679(d)(2) does purport to impair the authority to
remand by making the certification conclusive for
purposes of removal. So with that as our narrowest
argument --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the response to that is
that our opinions show that even an erroneous remand is
nonetheless governed by 1447(d). There are a lot of
erroneous remands and this would just be, just be
another one.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: But when Congress
specifically prohibited the courts from remanding a case
under 2679(d)(2) it certainly did not mean to protect a
court that ignored that mandate from review.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't the problem, and
maybe I'm missing, and I may be missing something here,
but isn't the problem with your argument is that the
statute didn't come out and say you can't remand. The
statute said, for purposes of removal, the certification
is conclusive, and that allows for the kind of dichotomy
that you and I were talking with before. A court can
say look, I know that I have article III jurisdiction
here, but in point of fact I am, I am remanding because
what you and I are calling here the pendent claim does
not support any of the Government's theory. If that's
the case, then under 1447(d), there could be a review of
it because it was not a jurisdictional ruling. But if
on the contrary, the judge said, as I think the judge
said here, I am remanding because based on this
analysis, I do not have jurisdiction, i.e., the judge
went against the statute saying that jurisdiction is
conclusive. That is an erroneous jurisdictional ruling,
and as Justice Scalia said, we have said over and over
again, however erroneous it may be, it is not
reviewable.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: If I may, Your
Honor? I think, two things: One, that there is a
difference between Congress categorically prohibiting a
certain kind of remand, and saying that a remand was
simply erroneous. And secondly, that that argument
would not go to our argument that under Waco, at the
very least, the order on substitution is appealable,
because it is separate and independent from remand.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Grant, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC GRANT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GRANT: Thank you. As to jurisdiction,
Congress knows how to make an exception to section
1447(d). All of the examples cited by the Court in
Kircher, and by the Government in its brief,
specifically referred, used the terms appeal and remand.
The statute here contains neither of those terms.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there was
nothing expressed about Thermtron, and yet we recognized
an exception there.
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, Thermtron was a case
where the district court did not even purport to be
relying on one of the grounds enumerated in section
1447(c), namely lack of subject matter jurisdiction. In
this case, of course, the district court explicitly
cited both that statute and used the term subject matter
jurisdiction, and the Government itself is, is not
willing to go behind that. On the merits, the
Government has argued this morning that the Westfall Act
provides a Federal forum to assert a Federal defense of
immunity. The Government has analogized this statute
to section 1442(a), which allows the assertion of a
colorable Federal defense, but the defense of, he didn't
do it, it never happened, is not a Federal defense. It
is not a defense of immunity.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about the defense of,
I was on the job and everything I did on the job was
within the scope of my employment?
MR. GRANT: In certain cases, Your Honor,
that could be a defense of immunity, but in a class of
cases identified by Justice Breyer, there will be an
admission. There has to be an admission under the facts
and the law, that even if the alleged acts occurred, it
was outside the scope of employment. In that case, the
defense is purely a merits defense. And I think for
this Court to say otherwise in this case would require
overruling, or being contradictory to over 20 years of
official immunity jurisprudence, where the Court has
consistently distinguished between immunity defenses and
defenses on the merits, where certainly the lower courts
have taken that conceptual distinction and said a
defense that the alleged acts did not occur do not raise
an immunity defense. And so, the assertion of a defense
in that case on the merits is not the assertion of a
Federal defense. It is not sufficient to confer Federal
jurisdiction under article III. It does not meet the
definition of a statute, of the statute, which uses the
phrase "scope of employment" no fewer than seven times.
There is no indication that Congress in the Westfall Act
intended to change the normal rules that purely State
law defenses such as he didn't do it were to be decided
in a Federal forum.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then you're left with
this question Justice Scalia raised. If it's ambiguous,
an employee says I did everything within the scope of my
employment, I did nothing improper. They allege I did
something improper. I didn't. I was a faithful
servant. The negligent employee will be allowed the
Federal forum, but the one who was a loyal, careful
employee has to be in the State court. Does that make
any sense?
MR. GRANT: Your Honor, I think that's, with
respect, a misunderstanding of how the statute works.
The employee who acts within the scope of his
employment, whether or not he did the acts alleged, gets
immunity. The employee who acts outside of the scope of
employment --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is an employee who
said I never did one thing that was inconsistent with my
Federal employment.
MR. GRANT: That's an employee who should
win on the merits and will win on the merits. As
Justice Kennedy recognized, there are certain
applications that allow the State court to resolve even
a Federal defense. We should trust that State courts
will resolve State law defenses in a manner fair to
their own citizens as well.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Grant. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
added 4:1 28:5 35:11 appended 39:16 48:9
address 4:3 11:19 applicable 10:11 assertion 16:6
44:25 18:15 29:16 49:18 44:16 45:18 34:17 37:3
50:20 17:16 44:8 50:13 Assistant 1:17
admission 48:21 analogy 25:4,9 arguable 21:24 attempting
admit 30:13 analysis 46:23 argue 20:18 Attorney 12:7
advocates 12:19 8:21 argued 48:8 15:14,16,18
27:14 anomalous 27:9 18:13,18 20:5
afforded 3:13 answer 9:23 10:8,14 16:5 24:19 25:13,21
5:16 8:17 8:6 19:3,10,13 22:16,23 24:11 28:1 31:18
10:1 11:8 AG 19:17 21:6 20:3 28:12 25:21 42:10 32:5,12 33:8
23:2 21:23 22:1 35:11,11 43:7 43:4 45:12,23 33:15 34:11,17
26:22 agency 10:11 answered 4:15 46:10 47:8,9 34:19 35:5,20
31:12 16:2 anybody 21:3 47:14 37:11 40:12
34:6 agree 26:18,18 27:8 arguments 45:6 41:7,8,18,22
48:8 agrees 31:7 anyway 43:8 arises 6:21 44:2
AL 1:6 apparent 6:11 arising 31:12 authority 5:5
9:5,8,19 15:9 18:8 19:21 26:5 45:10,20
23:6 allegations 27:7 appeal 14:24 artful 8:1 authorized
25:6 allege 49:20 16:21 18:4 article 3:17 36:18 44:20
alleged 3:24 21:16 44:25 23:12,13,16 availability 17:5
29:17 5:10,24 6:5,15 47:20 24:22 34:20 avenue 42:23
31:6 9:14 10:1 appealable 45:7 38:21 39:3 avoid 42:11
33:22 48:22 49:6 47:10 46:15 49:10 awfully 7:17
50:4 appeals 3:10,18 asked 27:20 a.m 1:13 3:2
allow 8:1 50:13 14:21,23 15:2 assault 7:19
6:15 41:8 46:13 APPEARAN... 43:10,11 19:14 25:4
23:3 25:19 48:11 1:14 assaulted 29:21 27:19 37:20
49:6 alluded 39:6 appears 21:5 assert 4:24 7:17 38:11,17 40:23
C 35:9 48:18,20 characterizati... clearly 23:19
46:22 car 32:15 45:14 47:7 14:3 16:23 come 11:5,6
28:3 49:23 certainly 5:8 23:17,25 24:9 43:1 44:10
3:7 case 3:19 5:8,8 36:25 39:1 39:12 47:12,22 committing 5:16
27:17 5:20 6:9 7:1,19 46:6 49:4 50:17 complaint 5:10
7:23 9:2 10:3 certification 6:4 Circuit 5:21 7:1 6:20
17:24 14:9 15:6 16:5 13:12,16,21,25 circumstances complicated
16:16,18,19 14:1 15:10,16 23:14 26:9
43:6 19:4,15,16 18:18 24:4,15 citizens 50:16 11:1 14:11
21:5,6,10 24:18,19 31:15 civil 24:3,10,18 concedes 5:22
27:4,20 29:2 35:21 37:11 9:13,15,16,25 concerns 5:13
35:4,12 36:13 43:24 44:2,7 31:12 34:17 13:10,16,18,22
37:4,14,17,22 45:21 46:12 36:4,5 38:17 13:24 14:4,6,7
26:6 38:4,11 39:5,7 certified 26:2 38:23 39:9,16 15:10,11,16,19
39:21 41:12,19 33:8 39:17,18,19,25 17:2,8 18:10
41:24 42:12,15 certifies 23:6,18 40:4,5,6,7 24:4,18,20
48:20 42:22 44:25 31:18 34:12 42:23 46:17 33:16,18 35:6
18:1 48:4,23,25 25:24 27:4,17 claims 4:10 46:13,25
49:8 50:18,19 28:1 32:6 34:24 36:7 confer 49:9
cases 4:20,20,22 40:12 41:10 38:22 39:15 confers 34:20
10:22,25 11:12 chance 14:17 48:19 Congress 4:3,5
32:6 49:14 18:16 23:2 30:20,22
32:1 45:12 48:4 33:19 34:5 20:18 23:11 development
36:19 court 1:1,12 3:9 36:17 37:8,11 24:22 27:23 39:7
39:1 3:10,18,21 4:1 37:17 38:21,23 32:21,22 34:18 dichotomy
41:5 6:11,17 7:4,8 45:10 39:24 40:1,4 46:13
45:8,14 7:24 11:7,10 cover 26:22 40:21 48:9,12 difference 47:6
47:6,17 11:12,13,23,25 covered 19:7 48:12,13,14,15 different 7:9,10
12:9 14:13,20 create 27:15 48:19,24,24 9:11 17:13
37:25 15:5,6,24 24:2,10 50:14 differently
16:20 17:4,10 45:16 43:1 49:3,4,15 difficult 7:17
18:4,21,23 D definition 13:23 direct 4:8
39:3 21:9,16 22:9 41:19,21,21 denial 8:8,11 discharge 10:6
9:24 17:10 23:1,10 24:23 day 19:19 denies 11:10 12:12,16 33:10
27:11,13,20 dealing 5:6 12:1,2,4 discretion 34:23
34:16,22 35:25 decide 29:3 Department 36:10 38:25
38:3,7,7,12,16 13:2,7 depends 9:17 dismiss 12:4
39:10 40:2,13 15:15 37:12 40:14 dismissed 42:22
41:21 41:21,22,25 21:11 37:19 dissenters 38:8
43:7,19,25 6:13 described 8:14 distinct 10:24
48:1,4,25 49:2 defend 21:23 destroy 45:2 49:5
courts 3:13,19 29:7,7 30:8,21 determination 39:22
41:18,23 19:11,12,22 14:14,16 28:12 17:19 31:1 9:24 49:3
35:9 36:20 34:9,16 42:21 37:15 6:17 8:25
14:1 15:6 50:14 defense 4:25 determining 16:7,19 17:10
21:18,21 court's 9:23 6:12 7:9,10 7:14 18:23 19:11
44:7 16:8 17:25 8:24 9:3 13:14 developed 38:24 20:7,12,15,22
27:11 19:24 21:19 entered 16:19 exercise 34:23 40:1,5,15,21
28:4 23:6 24:16,20 entirely 6:5 7:20 35:1,2 38:22 40:21 41:4,9
31:21,22 24:24 25:15,16 entitled 5:14 39:2 41:20 42:21
33:10,21 25:22 27:18 43:21 exercised 37:9 43:7,18,19
35:25 28:23 29:16,19 enumerated exhausted 42:24 48:9,9,12,13
29:20,24 30:3 48:2 existence 8:16 49:9,9,16,23
30:11,14 31:5 envisions 19:5 explain 17:7 50:9,14
32:8 33:24 equivalent 36:4 20:3 fewer 49:12
48:1,4 34:7,15 40:19 equivalents explicitly 48:4 fight 31:16
42:19 43:17,18 ERIC 1:15 2:3,9 extreme 27:6 final 13:24
32:13 50:3,5,7,10 erroneous 15:25 F 30:5 41:10
employees 23:3 19:6 44:23 face 6:8 37:7 findings 9:1
2:6 22:23 27:18 Erwin 4:1 12:7 16:15 finger 30:2,7,16
employment 2:6,9 33:21 36:2 firing 5:15
15:21 ET 1:6 factual 9:1 follows 24:1
37:21 25:23,25 26:4 26:13 fashion 30:3 Forsyth 7:6
44:2 28:11 29:5,23 evidentiary 12:3 Federal 3:13,24 fortiori 30:16,19
43:20 32:9,14 33:23 examined 6:11 11:6,7,10,13 four 47:13
24:21 43:13 48:17,23 30:8 43:15 17:17,21 18:23 43:5
empowered exception 18:7 24:22,25 25:17 function 4:3
enacted 32:1 exceptions 34:16,24 36:8 23:5 24:12,14
5:2,23 13:4 exclusive 42:21 38:23 39:5,16 G
12:23 enter 15:6 exempt 45:14 39:18,23,24,25 G 3:1
15:12,14 good 25:21 H hard 29:2 illustrate 39:8
20:5 28:18 Hafer 5:21 harm 9:12 25:1 illustrated 12:19
25:13 gotten 28:14 12:20 27:23 29:22 illustrates 41:4
26:2 governed 46:1 Haley 1:6 3:4 hear 3:3 40:22 42:14
31:18 Government 5:10 6:14 10:3 held 34:22 36:7 imagine 26:8
33:8 4:23 5:9,14,21 22:12 26:3 helps 41:1,2 immediately
40:12 5:23 6:19 8:1 Haley's 21:11 42:9 17:4
9:4,7 12:18 Hallward-Dri... hint 4:8 immune 4:14
20:24 21:9,15 22:23,25 23:21 hit 7:20 immunity 3:16
18:9,12 22:2 26:9,13 24:5,13 25:10 hits 30:8 4:6 7:5,9 8:24
20:14 26:15 28:5 26:1 27:2,12 holds 25:9 41:22 9:3,15,17,17
24:15,17 29:3 30:21,25 28:16,21 29:10 Hong 5:3 9:18 12:8 23:3
27:16 33:6 38:1 42:2 30:10,14 31:4 Honor 4:19 5:7 23:9,11,13
33:15 47:19 48:6,8 31:25 32:19 5:17 6:8,23 7:4 24:25 27:17,19
35:5 48:10 33:2,14,18,25 7:24 8:10,18 30:24 31:5,8
37:11 Government's 34:4,13 35:7 9:13,22 10:9 32:21,22 34:18
44:2 6:10,12 11:22 35:13,19 36:6 10:23 11:14,21 42:15,17 48:10
20:15 22:7 37:24 38:5,19 14:5,22 15:18 49:3,7 50:5
10:13 Graham 15:25 40:18,24 41:3 18:19 19:10 implicate 13:11
15:1 Grant 1:15 2:3,9 41:17 42:4,8 20:4,11,24 implicates 15:21
29:11 3:5,6,8 4:19 42:13 43:22 22:2,7,17 24:5 importance 6:25
33:12 5:7,17 6:8,23 44:12,13,19,22 25:12 27:5 important 7:2
38:14 7:4,24 8:9,18 45:1,5 46:4 29:13 31:25 7:12 16:4 17:9
48:15 8:23 9:13,22 47:4 33:4,25 37:6 improper 15:22
50:7 10:9,15,22 hand 7:21 24:3 40:10 43:23 19:4,25 44:18
12:15,18 13:2 happen 9:10 47:5,25 48:18 inadequate
14:12,22 15:4 19:19 20:22 Honor's 41:4 incident 6:3,5
19:14 21:8,15 22:2,6 14:19 15:2 18:22 42:20
37:7,20 22:17,22 44:10 19:18 20:8,16 I inconceivable
48:7 47:13,14,16,25 20:19 21:18,24 identified 48:20 17:18
40:12 50:18 26:15,16,19 46:7 27:15 50:8
14:13,16 26:20 34:1 48:13 23:13,16 24:23 47:11
27:19 grounds 36:1 happens 23:20 34:20 38:21 indicated 39:24
48:2 31:14 34:5 39:3 46:15 indication 49:13
35:1,9,18,24 36:13,21 37:2 law 3:19 4:10,13 maliciously
49:14 46:15,23,24 45:2,24 46:8 39:18 40:21,21 manner 50:15
38:6 49:10 48:15,20 49:17 49:15 50:15 18:24 30:22
3:16 17:11,14 50:17 leave 35:24 48:3,5 50:20
15:7 17:7 46:20,25 37:21 left 49:17 mean 7:17 10:13
19:14 28:10 30:4 42:1,5,9 50:12 limitations 3:17 meaning 36:10
23:9 40:14 41:1 Kentucky 7:13 limited 31:1 means 16:18
26:6 43:15,21 44:1 10:12 limiting 42:10 meant 38:20
36:8 40:2 44:8 killed 32:15 line 4:6 7:17 meet 15:23
42:14,18 Justice 1:18 3:3 Kimbro 11:1 11:15,17,20,22 49:10
3:8 4:12 5:1,12 kind 21:23 15:12 Melo 5:21 10:25
11:4 17:25 47:19 37:21 22:10
14:3,12 15:1,9 28:8 31:18 look 6:19 17:2 mentioned 10:5
41:6 17:13 18:8 knows 17:23 40:5,6 46:15 merely 4:24
19:2,13 20:7 47:17 looks 31:22 merits 4:9 7:6
12:4 22:15,21,25 L lower 34:14 49:4 13:4,21 14:8
33:11 23:17,25 24:9 lack 3:21 16:15 loyal 49:23 15:5 16:1 17:6
16:7,16 30:4,12,19 33:3,7,9 37:12 majority 4:20 50:11
18:24 31:14 32:7,11 38:8,8 11:23 Mesa 32:22
8:16 ordered 16:14 41:9 predicate 25:6
note 22:8 22:12 petitions 41:6 presume 34:18
number 9:3 42:15 phrase 13:4 presumption
9:8,10,19,20 phrased 25:24 presumptions
objection 41:7 25:23 26:12 place 4:18 5:24 price 34:10
49:6 overruling 49:1 12:1,2,5 20:19 prisoner 27:22
48:22 44:7 plaintiffs 3:12 22:11
49:2 part 17:15 please 3:9 23:1 procedural 3:12
once 34:24 34:9 37:14,16 28:3 31:2 34:4 43:24
opinions 45:25 34:24 35:1 poses 29:14 31:23 34:16
10:6 opposite 20:5 38:15,15,18,20 12:23 15:9 progresses
14:9,9 option 41:18 38:23,24 39:14 26:14 27:10,13 29:14
29:25 oral 1:11 2:2,5 40:7 43:19 43:9 prohibited 46:5
48:13 3:6 22:23 46:17 possibilities prohibiting
order 14:16 15:7 perfectly 18:16 7:25 45:11 47:6
42:20 29:14 39:19 relation 18:11 repeal 30:23 41:20 43:24
37:10 relevant 10:10 48:25 reviewable 19:9
raise 13:13 remain 11:12 requires 6:19 reviewed 33:13
30:1 40:4 remand 14:16 Resolution 18:3 Rice 45:16
24:17 raising 31:10,10 18:11,15,20 50:13,15 ridiculous 31:22
48:9 reading 29:9 36:3,7,9,11,18 36:8 41:5 12:2,3,5 14:4,6
really 27:4 45:9,11,21,25 resolving 37:12 30:21 32:19
49:14 reason 9:8,20 47:11,20 13:17 20:4 35:7 38:19
48:1 38:13 39:4 17:4 18:18 respond 44:13 43:3 44:8,21
45:3 reasonable 28:9 remanding 15:5 6:14 22:11 rightfully 3:20
18:10 reasons 36:16 37:4 46:5,16 1:19 2:7 22:24 6:1 7:16 8:3
33:16 REBUTTAL 46:22 responding 4:4 13:6,15 14:3
35:6,16 2:8 47:14 remands 44:20 response 27:1 16:23 17:13
recognized 7:9 46:2 31:3 44:15 22:21 23:17,25
39:20 22:18 24:24 removal 12:25 45:24 24:9 25:3,20
46:12 27:5 38:7 13:7,9,17,20 responsibility 31:14 35:3,10
6:16 9:18 recovery 8:12 38:10 39:23 resubstituted ruling 14:17
13:20 recurring 4:21 45:17,22 46:12 33:24 43:17 46:20,25
25:16 10:25 removals 39:22 retain 35:9
27:1 referred 14:1 remove 18:25 38:16 S
30:24,25 47:20 21:7 41:8,19 reversed 3:18 S 2:1 3:1
32:8,11 refers 6:2 18:3 42:3 review 13:19 Sacramento
34:25 refiling 37:23 removed 16:20 16:7,21 17:5 1:15
43:11,23 refrained 5:16 18:12,14,17 17:12,19,20 satisfies 13:23
regularity 32:2 24:6 35:8 19:8 21:10 14:7 23:11,13
22:15 14:24 15:7 specific 25:7 18:7 25:6 suppose 14:12
40:3 16:17 17:12,23 45:8,17 stay 38:12 14:19 15:1
47:7 18:2,5,21 19:1 specifically staying 43:19 26:10 40:16
16:18,25 48:2,11 18:3 45:10 STEVENS supposed 8:22
22:10 see 6:20 46:5 47:20 12:15,24 37:20 19:17 43:15
31:22 seen 11:18 spelled 34:6 38:2 Supreme 1:1,12
49:19 send 38:17 stage 22:8 43:25 stop 45:3 sure 7:2 25:9
16:3,11 49:25 starkly 12:19 strongest 43:4 system 12:17,17
33:20 sentence 13:24 Starting 7:6 subject 18:24
36:21 separate 39:15 State 3:13,19,19 24:12,14 35:17 T
44:10,15 47:11 4:10,12 10:2 36:9 48:3,5
45:2
47:1 Service 22:11 14:20 16:1,20 20:15,15 31:1 39:15
set 11:11,12,15 17:20 31:23 submitted 50:18 40:13,20 43:9
5:4,11,19 Seventh 44:8 40:12,22,23 31:11 takes 12:21
6:2,6 7:15 sexual 26:11 41:15,24 42:5 subsection talking 28:25
43:10,11 49:14,24 50:13 18:20
13:3 shoots 21:19 states 1:1,13 37:19 39:7
14:8
15:21 show 45:25 12:14 14:14,17 10:25 term 16:17 48:5
19:20,25 showed 22:11 14:18 15:3 substantive terms 9:5 47:20
21:19 shuttling 38:11 32:18 33:23 42:25
22:13
24:16 simple 28:24 41:9 42:20 32:18 44:6 Thank 22:21
25:8,15 29:18 43:18 44:3,4,5 substitution 47:12,16 50:17
26:3 simply 4:23 6:14 44:5,9 14:14,18 33:16
statute 3:15 6:7 39:8 45:7 46:18
sitting 43:25 6:17 9:5 13:7 47:10
29:5
30:7 situations 15:11 18:2,14 23:14 sufficient 49:9
32:9 somebody 44:24 24:17 25:5,12 38:18
33:22
41:11,15 sorry 9:22 28:14 30:23 31:3 suit 4:14,18 19:5 47:5
42:6,18 44:11 32:4 35:5,20 summary 4:11 think 5:12 7:2
45:15 sort 4:10 12:21 39:23 41:8,9 12:4,21,24
12:19
49:12
50:3,5 8:20 9:2,16 46:24 47:21 supervisor 20:18 22:6
28:3 15:20 v 1:5 3:4 4:1 49:13 1
29:1,10 trust 18:3 50:14 5:21 7:24 We'll 3:3 10:03 1:13 3:2
35:22 trying 24:11 12:20 we're 8:22 11:17 11:04 50:19
38:6 turned 32:14 vacated 3:21 40:22 42:2,3 12 18:1
41:3,13 39:18 valid 21:3 we've 16:4 39:6 1292(b) 14:24
43:23 turns 12:7 validity 13:20 whatsoever 14 22:8
46:21 two 6:13 18:15 valuable 12:17 32:23 1441(a) 18:2
48:24 40:4 45:6 47:5 various 18:21 white 29:13 1442(a) 48:11
type 17:14 33:11 versus 5:20 7:6 wholly 4:10,12 1447 18:21
U view 6:4 11:22 willing 48:7 36:10,18 44:20
32:21 34:21 27:3,14,15 27:20 16:20,24 17:12
20:9 15:22 29:8 30:5 wins 28:12 19:12 44:16
21:4 understand 11:4 34:14 witness 30:2 45:3 46:1,19
26:23,24 24:11 37:8 voice 29:25 Wood 5:20 7:1 47:18
35:10 43:8 31:10 7:24 10:25 1985 7:7
43:4 understanding 21:2,17 26:25 1991 18:23
30:3 understood Waco 47:9 Wood's 26:11
9:18 unfortunately want 8:21 11:5 working 32:9 20 49:1
22:20 19:15 11:11 18:17 works 50:2 2006 1:9
25:1,7,14 uniform 34:13 28:8 37:2 wouldn't 7:22 22 2:7
26:4 United 1:1,12 wanted 39:5 14:20 35:3 2679 13:25 15:8
33:7 5:20 7:25 42:14 39:13 43:20 17:2
34:8,9 37:13 wasn't 7:21 15:14,25 19:9
41:1,15 unprecedented 31:3 43:4 40:15 44:11 3a 22:18
43:6,14 4:10 went 23:5 26:21 wrote 30:20,23 30 1:9
44:8 upheld 33:9 28:10 29:4
17:7 use 28:24 29:18 4:1,4,20 23:2 47(c) 45:15
27:8
38:5 44:6 U.S.C 18:2 32:1 34:6 747(c) 45:19
48:8 0
