IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JOSE ANTONIO LOPEZ, :
Petitioner, :
v. : No. 05-547
ALBERTO R. GONZALES, :
ATTORNEY GENERAL; :
and :
REYMUNDO TOLEDO-FLORES, :
Petitioner, :
v. : No. 05-7664
UNITED STATES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 3, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ROBERT A. LONG, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner Lopez.
TIMOTHY CROOKS, ESQ., Supervisory Assistant Federal Public
Defender, Houston, Texas; on behalf of Petitioner
Toledo-Flores.
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ROBERT A. LONG, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioner Lopez 4
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
TIMOTHY CROOKS, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioner Toledo-Flores 17
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ROBERT A. LONG, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioner Lopez 56
P R O C E E D I N G S
[10:03 a.m.]
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Lopez versus Gonzales and
Toledo-Flores versus United States.
Mr. Long.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. LONG, JR.
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER LOPEZ
MR. LONG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please
the Court:
A drug-trafficking crime is defined in 18 U.S.
Code Section 924(c) as any felony punishable under the
Controlled Substances Act or two other Federal statutes.
"Punishable" is a key term. If that word is omitted, the
remaining phrase, "any felony under the Controlled
Substances Act," clearly refers to felony violations of
the Controlled Substances Act. The parties agree that
"punishable" means "subject to criminal sanctions." So, a
"drug-trafficking crime," under 924(c), is conduct that is
subject to being punished under the Controlled Substances
Act.
State felonies are not, themselves, punishable
under the Controlled Substances Act. It is not a Federal
crime to violate State law. The defendant's conduct may
be punishable under both Federal and State law, but a
State felony is not a felony punishable under the
Controlled Substances Act.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, do you agree that if
there were a State conviction for an offense that would
have been punishable under the Federal law, their both
being felonies, that enhancement can apply, in that
instance, and that that does meet the definition?
MR. LONG: Yes, Justice Kennedy. Our position
is, if the conduct would violate a felony provision of the
Controlled Substances Act or one of the other two Federal
statutes, it then is a drug-trafficking crime under 18
U.S. Code Section 924(c), and, therefore, it is an
aggravated felony.
But there are three additional textual
indications, in addition to simply the "felony punishable"
language, that misdemeanor offenses under the Controlled
Substances Act are not drug-trafficking crimes under
Section 924(c). The first one is, there are other
provisions of Section 924 -- (e), (g), and (k) -- where
Congress actually used very similar language. It referred
to conduct punishable under the Controlled Substances Act
or the two other statutes, or offenses under the
Controlled Substances Act or the two other Federal
statutes. But then, it added an express reference to
State offenses, so --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where --
MR. LONG: -- the implication is that when
Congress meant to include State offenses, it said so.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where are those sections?
MR. LONG: The -- you can find them; they're in
the appendix to Lopez's blue brief, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. LONG: -- and the provisions on (e), (g),
and (k) -- 924 begins on page 3A of the appendix, and (e)
begins on 5A, and you can pick up -- (g) is on 6A, (k) is
on 7A.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What are the sections -- (b)?
MR. LONG: They're subsections (e), (g), and
(k).
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that doesn't carry
too much weight, though, because the provision that -- I'm
looking at (g)(3), "violates any State law relating to any
controlled substance," can be broader than what's
punishable under the Federal Controlled Substances --
MR. LONG: It --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- Act.
MR. LONG: It is a bit broader, Mr. Chief
Justice, but if you look at all of these provisions, the
implication is clearly that Congress was referring to
State law when it meant to include State law. I mean, the
-- if you looked at (e), for example, there it's a
parallel construction; it's not broader. I think perhaps
the government would say, "Well, we're talking about
offenses." That's a little different from a felony, but
"offenses" is actually a broader term.
I'll mention an additional statute, which was
not in the appendix -- 18 U.S. Code Section 3559(c)(2)(H).
This provision -- it's a similar provision; it defines a
"serious drug offense" as an offense that is punishable
under the specific sections of the Controlled Substances
Act, or an offense under State law that, had the offense
been prosecuted in a court of the United States, would
have been punishable under the CSA.
An additional textual indication is, it's agreed
-- and this Court has already said, in Gonzales against
the United States, that a drug-trafficking crime under
924(c), under the criminal statute, must be a Federal
crime. 924(c)(1)(A) refers to a crime that may be
prosecuted in a court of the United States, and that
clearly refers to a Federal crime. The definition of
drug-trafficking crime, by its term, says it is for
purposes of 924(c), so there is no reason why Congress
would have wanted to include State felonies in a
definition that applies to a Federal criminal provision
that all concede applies only to Federal predicate
offenses. And --
JUSTICE ALITO: In --
MR. LONG: -- the Government's interpretation
would significantly broaden Section 924(c) to include
Federal misdemeanors.
JUSTICE ALITO: In 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(43)(B),
what, in your view, does the first phrase, "illicit
trafficking in a controlled substance," add to the
reference to a drug-trafficking crime --
MR. LONG: Justice --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- as defined by 924(c)?
MR. LONG: Justice Alito, in our view, "illicit
trafficking" means any offense that has a trafficking
element -- that is, distribution, possession with intent
to distribute, manufacture --
JUSTICE ALITO: But are there any trafficking
offenses that would not fall within 924(c) if you define a
"trafficking offense" that way?
MR. LONG: Yes. They're -- most offenses under
the Controlled Substances Act are trafficking offenses.
There are a few that are simple possession. There is a
date-rape drug that I will not try to pronounce, but it's
listed in 21 U.S.C. Section --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, no, there --
MR. LONG: -- 844.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- are possessory -- there are
"mere possession" offenses that are outlawed by 924(c),
but is it not the case that any -- if you interpret
"trafficking" to mean trafficking in the way the word
would be used in ordinary speech -- that any State
trafficking offense you can think of would have a
corresponding felony violation under the Controlled
Substances Act, so that if you read the statute that way,
the initial phrase is superfluous?
MR. LONG: I believe the Government has a
footnote in their brief where they suggest there are some
State trafficking offenses that actually do not have a
parallel in Federal law. Soliciting, I think, may be one
of them. So, I think there are, in fact, some. And our
position, of course, is that by adding illicit trafficking
-- any trafficking offense, State or Federal, whether or
not it is punishable under the Controlled Substances Act,
is an aggravated felony.
JUSTICE ALITO: Let me ask the same question a
different way. If -- since 924(c) includes some "mere
possession" offenses, and illicit trafficking in a
controlled substance includes all violations of 924(c),
doesn't that show that the way Congress used "illicit
trafficking in a controlled substance" is not in the sense
in which the term is used in ordinary speech, but's much
broader, so that it can include "mere possession"
offenses?
MR. LONG: The -- Justice Alito, there is an
argument -- it's developed in the brief of the American
Bar Association -- that, because illicit trafficking is
the general category, that all the aggravated felonies in
this category should have a trafficking component; and,
therefore, the felonies punishable under the Controlled
Substances Act that are "simple possession" offenses
should not, in fact, be included. That is not an argument
that we have pressed in our brief. We read the phrase to
say "illicit trafficking, including any felony punishable
under the Controlled Substances Act." So, I would agree
with you, to the extent that if it is a felony punishable
under the Controlled Substances Act, Congress has said, by
definition, that it is included in the category of illicit
trafficking.
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's ambiguous. That's
perfectly ambiguous. Because, the case of your client, it
is a felony, and it is punishable under the Controlled
Substances Act.
MR. LONG: Well, Justice Breyer, it is a
misdemeanor under --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, that's --
MR. LONG: -- the Controlled --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- right. But it is a felony
under South Dakota law. And what the statute says -- and
that's the Government's argument -- they say "any felony
punishable under the Controlled Substances Act." They
don't mean, necessarily, any felony punishable as a felony
under the Controlled Substances Act.
MR. LONG: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: It might mean anything that is
a --
MR. LONG: But --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- felony, and --
MR. LONG: But --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- it is also punishable; in
which case, you lose. But, in the first case, you win.
MR. LONG: But, you know --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, what am I supposed to look
to, to decide which is --
MR. LONG: Well, you could look to the case of
Jerome against United States, which is -- which was a
unanimous decision of this Court -- in which the Court
held that the -- just the phrase "any felony" --
JUSTICE BREYER: Uh-huh.
MR. LONG: -- in the Federal bankruptcy statute
should be interpreted to mean any Federal felony, so --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, but you don't mean that,
because you're prepared to concede -- at least I thought
you were, until your last argument -- you're prepared to
concede that if a person engages in a crime that is
punishable as a felony under South Dakota law, and it is
also punishable as a felony under Federal law, under 801,
et seq, well, that counts.
MR. LONG: Well, but, I mean, the Government --
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you --
MR. LONG: -- accuses us --
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you concede that --
MR. LONG: The --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- or not?
MR. LONG: The Government accuses us of making
that concession --
Justice Breyer: No, no.
MR. LONG: -- but we --
JUSTICE BREYER: You --
MR. LONG: -- really don't.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- you say your answer is, you
don't make the concession?
MR. LONG: We really don't. I mean, we concede
that if the -- I mean, 8- -- 924(c), the criminal statute,
says nothing about State law. It says nothing about any
conviction under Federal or State law. It's simply a
question of whether the conduct is punishable, capable of
being punished, under the Controlled Substances Act --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I thought that --
MR. LONG: -- the Federal statute.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- was the concession you made
in response to my --
MR. LONG: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- question.
MR. LONG: -- yes. I -- but I just want to be
careful about the language in which we make --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you --
MR. LONG: -- this concession --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- make the concession, as I
understand it, because it's a Federal felony, not because
it's a State felony --
MR. LONG: Right.
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- isn't that right? Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it --
MR. LONG: Precisely.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it -- if this is an
ambiguous statute, do you -- what mileage do you get from
Barrett? There is certainly an argument that what was --
Congress was trying to do was to codify that practice of
saying, "If there is analogous felony -- if there is
analogous crime under State law, that should be included."
And that made good sense.
MR. LONG: Yes. If it's ambiguous, and you look
to the legislative history, I think we get considerable
mileage from Barrett. The Congress was pretty clear that
what it was doing was codifying Barrett. The Barrett
approach, which was then followed by the BIA for more than
a decade, was that they would count State drug crimes, but
only if they were felonies under the Federal statutes,
under the Controlled Substances Act. So, I think we get
considerable mileage out of that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You've --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- about the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- answered Justice Breyer by
citing the Jerome case. After Jerome, we decided United
States vs. Gonzales, having to do with the consecutive or
concurrent sentencing terms. And it -- are those two
cases in some tension? Gonzales didn't mention Jerome.
And I noticed that none of the briefs mentioned it either.
Is there some tension in the cases? And, if so, is this a
case where, when we write an opinion, whatever the
outcome, we should talk about that? And, if that's so,
what should we say?
MR. LONG: I don't see any tension. Gonzales
was just about consecutive versus concurrent sentences
under State versus Federal law. I mean, the Court has
applied that principle --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it does --
MR. LONG: For example, in Taylor --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- it does seem to limit the
broad statement in Jerome, without mentioning Jerome.
MR. LONG: Well, but -- I mean, with respect,
Justice Kennedy, I don't see how it limits it. And there
have been other cases -- Taylor is an example -- where the
Court adopted a single definition of "burglary" for
purposes of 924(e). That applies the Jerome principle. I
mean, it's a principle that has been applied in a number
of this Court's cases.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But has it ever been
applied in a -- to a statute that specifically says that
the term "aggravated felony" applies to an offense
described in this paragraph, whether in violation of
Federal or State law?
MR. LONG: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That would seem to me to
be a very express legislative repudiation of the Jerome --
MR. LONG: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- principle.
MR. LONG: -- when we get to that language, Mr.
Chief Justice -- and I do think it helps the analysis to
first decide, What is the definition of a "drug-
trafficking crime" under 924(c), the criminal statute?
Once you've decided that -- now, when you move back to the
INA, there is this language. The term "aggravated felony"
applies to an offense described in 101(a)(43), whether in
violation of Federal or State law, or the law of a foreign
country. Now, we think that's pretty straightforward. It
has to be an offense described. So, the simple example is
money laundering. It -- the offense described in 18 U.S.
Code Section 1956, "money laundering," is an aggravated
felony. So, a violation of State law or of foreign law
can be an aggravated felony, but only if it is the offense
described in 1956. If States or a foreign government has
a broader definition of "money laundering," that can't
count, because it's not the offense described. And when
you turn to a drug-trafficking crime, the way that offense
is described in 101(A)(43) is -- Congress picked up, in
its entirety and without any modification, the definition
of "drug-trafficking crime" in 924(c), a felony punishable
under the Controlled Substances Act.
So, if you agree that, in the criminal statute,
that means a felony violation of the Controlled Substances
Act, the offense described is the felonies in the
Controlled Substances Act, not the felonies in the
misdemeanors. And State -- if State law wants to call a
-- something that's a misdemeanor under Federal law a
felony, they can do that, but they can't expand the
offense described. The offense described, the way
Congress did that, is --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But are you saying it would
also include State trafficking offense, because it's
described in the word "trafficking"?
MR. LONG: Yes. I'm focusing on the definition
of "drug-trafficking crime." It -- also, there's the
illicit trafficking piece of this. And, I should add, any
State offense that is illicit trafficking is going to be
an aggravated felony. We recognize that.
If there are no further questions, I'd like to
reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Long.
Mr. Crooks, we'll hear now from you.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY CROOKS
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER TOLEDO-FLORES
MR. CROOKS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I would first like to address the Government's
contention that Mr. Toledo-Flores's appeal is moot. His
appeal of his sentence is not moot, primarily because he
is still subject to the sentence that is the subject of
that appeal. Even though Mr. Toledo-Flores was released
from prison on April 21st of this year, and deported to
Mexico, he's still subject to the supervised-release
portion of his sentence, because supervised release is not
automatically extinguished by deportation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But there's no
supervised release of people outside the United States.
MR. CROOKS: There's no supervision of people
outside the United States, Mr. Chief Justice, but he is
still subject to the jurisdiction of the District Court,
and still subject to the conditions of supervised release
that are not dependent upon supervision.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, like what?
MR. CROOKS: Well, for example, he shall not
excessively use alcohol, he shall not associate with
persons who --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's going to happen
to him if he does that?
MR. CROOKS: If the District Court learns about
it he could be violated -- he could be extradited back
from Mexico, and he could face up to a year more in
prison.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Has anything like that
ever happened before with people subject to supervised
release who are then deported? It would be the first
time, if the District Court did that, right?
MR. CROOKS: There have been instances in the
case law where people on supervised release have been
extradited back from foreign countries based on violations
of their supervised release. But the point is, under the
statutory scheme, Mr. Toledo-Flores is still subject to
the District Court's jurisdiction. The District Court
retains jurisdiction to modify his supervised release, to
change the conditions, or to cut the supervised release.
If the District Court learns of a violation and a
violation warrant is filed within the supervised-release
period then the supervised-release period is effectively
tolled and the District Court --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that --
MR. CROOKS: -- retains --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- that period has how many
months to run?
MR. CROOKS: Until April 20th of next year, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you -- you said you rely
primarily on that argument -- do you have another
argument?
MR. CROOKS: Yes, we do, Your Honor. After
April 20th, of course, in accordance with this Court's
decisions in Spencer v. Kemna and Lane v. Williams, the
Court needs to look for a collateral consequence of the
then-expired sentence. And, in this case, we point to the
possibility that a retrospective reduction in the term of
imprisonment -- which, of course, will not give excess
prison time back to Mr. Toledo-Flores -- but even to
reduce the number of the sentence, on paper, could be a
favorable factor for him to get a waiver of
inadmissibility, should he ever want to get a nonimmigrant
visa in the future to come visit his U.S.-citizen
children.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We have a case involving
standing which says that -- you know, the doctrine of
standing is more than a -- an exercise in the -- in the
conceivable. And this seems to me an exercise in the
conceivable. Nobody thinks your client is really, you
know, abstaining from tequila down in Mexico because he's
on supervised release in the United States, or is going --
is going to apply -- having been deported from the country
for criminal offenses, is going to apply to come back in
the -- these are ingenious exercises in the conceivable.
This is just not the real world.
MR. CROOKS: Well, my answer to that, Justice
Scalia, is that this Court has never said that an appeal
of a sentence may become moot before that sentence is
expired. And in cases like Lane v. Williams and Spencer
v. Kemna, the sentences were completely expired, and,
therefore, the Court had to look for collateral
consequences of the now-expired sentence. Here, in
consequence -- in contrast, Mr. Toledo-Flores is still
under the sentence, which is a direct consequence --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That depends on whether you
consider the sentence to be effectively expired once he
leaves the country, if the sentence is one of supervised
release, which is impossible once he leaves the country.
Supervision being impossible, supervised release is not a
realistic consequence of the prior conviction.
MR. CROOKS: But that argument could be made
with respect to a person who is in the United States, who
is subject to a term of probation where the only condition
is that he not further violate the law. In that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, no, because --
MR. CROOKS: -- instance --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- in that -- in that
instance, action can be taken against him if he does
further violate the law under the terms of probation. The
point is that the jurisdiction of the probation office or
the District Court doesn't extend to Mexico.
MR. CROOKS: Well, that's true. But if we're
talking about future violations of the law, it is very
often the case that persons who are deported to Mexico do
come back, and do have their supervised release --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well --
MR. CROOKS: -- revoked.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- you don't want to say
that your case is not moot because your client is going to
violate the law again in the future.
MR. CROOKS: No, not at all, Your Honor, but I'm
saying that, in the respect that you just talked about for
the U.S. citizen, it's not any different, that the court
retains jurisdiction to violate the supervised release,
and to revoke it, and then to send him back to prison.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but it is different, in the
respect that he would first have to violate the law by
entering the United States.
MR. CROOKS: That is true. But in most cases,
that is the only violation of supervised release for which
they are later revoked. And, in that respect, it would be
no different from a person who violates his probation by
driving while intoxicated or committing some other legal
violation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you work in --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: On --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- this area?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: On collateral consequences,
do you have -- what is your best authority to say that in
-- it would keep this case from being moot?
MR. CROOKS: We cited, in our reply brief at
page 4, Your Honor, the Hamdi case, United States v.
Hamdi, from the Second Circuit, where the Second Circuit
found that the possibility of reducing the term of
imprisonment, even retrospectively, could have an impact
on the ability to get a waiver of inadmissibility in --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because --
MR. CROOKS: -- the future.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because the length of the
sentence counts heavily in the attorney general's
assessment, is that --
MR. CROOKS: That's correct, Your Honor. In
Hamdi, they pointed out that the length of the sentence
goes to two of the three factors that are evaluated by
Immigration officials -- under a decision called Matter of
Heronka -- that are used in evaluating whether a person
should be granted a waiver of inadmissibility in the
discretion of the attorney general --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think there's a
realistic possibility that this person is going to be
readmitted? A realistic possibility?
MR. CROOKS: I do not know, Your Honor. He's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh.
MR. CROOKS: -- got U.S. citizen --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think there's a
realistic possibility he's going to try to get readmitted,
so that he can be subjected to really enforced supervised
release?
MR. CROOKS: Well, I think that there is a
possibility that he -- he could qualify for a nonimmigrant
visa at some point --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Has he applied for such a visa?
Has he expressed any intention to apply?
MR. CROOKS: He has not, Your Honor, but he does
have U.S.-citizen --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --
MR. CROOKS: -- children --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- then it's an exercise in the
conceivable, it seems to me.
MR. CROOKS: But this Court has never held that
a -- it would be unfair to hold that an appeal of a
sentence can be moot while that sentence is still in
effect, and when it can still have consequences for Mr.
Toledo-Flores. And that's what distinguishes this case
from all the other cases decided by this Court, is that
the sentence itself is the concrete and continuing injury
that defeats --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I --
MR. CROOKS: -- mootness in this case.
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- ask this question? It's --
presuming -- supposing we say it's not moot, and you
prevail. Could he be resentenced without being present in
court?
MR. CROOKS: Yes, he could, Your Honor. We do
resentencing in absentia all the time in the Southern
District of Texas --
JUSTICE BREYER: In the Southern --
MR. CROOKS: -- in circumstances that are
similar.
JUSTICE BREYER: In the -- have you ever heard
of, or had, a client -- or heard of a person from Mexico
who had been deported because he has been involved in
drugs, and the Government wants to bring him back because
he may be a witness -- maybe something develops, some
other members of the gang are there, they'd like his
information?
MR. CROOKS: That does happen occasionally.
People are paroled, then, to testify in court proceedings
or to cooperate with Federal --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, if --
MR. CROOKS: -- or State --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- they pick up some friends of
his who are engaged in drugs, the Government might decide
to try to get him back.
MR. CROOKS: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there any indication that
that's in the works, or is this just another conceivable
thing?
MR. CROOKS: There is no indication in the
record --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. CROOKS: -- that that is in the work. I do
want to point out that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it's conceivable, I
guess, that people will break their parole. Often it
doesn't happen; sometimes it does. Sometimes they want to
get him back; sometimes they don't.
MR. CROOKS: That's all very true, Justice
Breyer.
I wanted to point out that, in Campo Serrano,
which we've cited in our brief, this Court held that a
deported alien's probation term was a continuing criminal
sentence that saved the case from mootness. And the Court
pointed to the fact that he -- that the deported alien in
Campo Serrano could, just like Mr. Toledo-Flores, have his
conditional release revoked, and he could be reimprisoned,
upon a finding that he had violated his conditions. And
we believe that Campo Serrano points very strongly in the
direction that this case is not moot.
On the merits, I would just like to point out
that the interpretation that is advanced by the
petitioners here promotes the very sort of uniformity that
this Court has found desirable in cases like Jerome v.
United States and its progeny, including Taylor v. United
States, in that the same conduct of conviction will have
the same immigration and same Federal sentencing
consequences, irrespective of the labels or maximum prison
terms affixed by the particular States that set out that
conduct. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
MR. CROOKS: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS
MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In order for a State drug offense to be an
aggravated felony under Section 1101(a)(43)(B) of the INA,
two -- there are two requirements. The underlying conduct
must be punishable under the Controlled Substances Act or
one of the other specified Federal statutes, and it must
be a felony.
Because Petitioner's underlying conduct here was
punishable under the Controlled Substances Act, and was a
felony under State law, they are -- they were properly
found to have committed aggravated felonies. That
conclusion follows, not just from Section 924(c), but,
more importantly, by the fact that what is relevant here
is, What is the meaning of 1101(a)(43), which is the
operative provision, which just happens to incorporate the
definition of "drug-trafficking crime" from 924(c)? And
there are three features of 1101(a)(43) with --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why don't you say "it just
happens"? I mean --
MR. KNEEDLER: No. No. But -- no, but -- yes.
No, it's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- it's there in the statute.
MR. KNEEDLER: It's -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's why you're here.
MR. KNEEDLER: It expressly incorporates it,
yes. Yes. But the -- but the operative provision is
section 1101(a)(43) of the INA, and there are three
features of that that we think reinforce this conclusion.
The first is that the consequences of aggravated felony
status under the INA turn on whether one is convicted, not
whether they have committed the crime, and that's true
both with respect to the enhancement of sentences under
1326 and the -- and the immigration consequences. And we
think it makes particular sense when you're talking about
a conviction to look about how the -- to look at how the
crime is treated under the jurisdiction of conviction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought the Government has
taken the position -- and as far as I know, all the Courts
of Appeals have bought the Government's argument -- that
there -- you do not need a conviction --
MR. KNEEDLER: You do --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that so --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- not need a conviction under
Section 924 if you're bringing a prosecution under Section
924(c).
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. You don't --
MR. KNEEDLER: You do not -- you do not need a
conviction. But, in order -- the immigration consequences
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- have been --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- but 924(c) is incorporated
in 1101(a)(43). It's --
MR. KNEEDLER: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- incorporated. So, you want
us to interpret 924(c) one way for criminal convictions --
a criminal sentence -- that is, you don't need a
conviction in order to get the enhancement -- but another
way for --
MR. KNEEDLER: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- for the INA?
MR. KNEEDLER: Our point is not that 924(c)
requires a conviction when it's in the Immigration Act,
it's that the immigration consequences of that
incorporation turn on whether someone was convicted of an
aggravated felony.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is --
MR. KNEEDLER: So --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the ground of deportation
that refers to "aggravated felony" refers to someone who
has been convicted of an aggravated felony. The
ineligibility for cancellation of removal turns on whether
someone has been convicted of an aggravated felony, and
the enhanced penalties under Section 1326 for someone
whose illegal reentry, following aggravated felony, is for
a conviction for an aggravated felony. So, my point is
that, under the INA, the consequences turn on conviction,
and it makes sense to look at the jurisdiction of
conviction -- here, State law -- to see whether it -- to
look at the -- to determine the status of the crime. And
since State law determines it to be a felony, that's the
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- proper place to look.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- if there is room for more
than one construction of this statute, it seems to me
unseemly, in the immigration context, to say that two
people who have committed the identical acts, one of them
is barred from ever coming back, doesn't have any of the
dispensations, and the other does, because of the
happenstance of the State in which they were convicted.
That kind of disuniformity in an area where the
Constitution expressly charges Congress with authority to
make uniform laws, it's -- doesn't that uniform-law
specification in the Constitution tug in the direction of
the interpretation that Mr. Long was --
MR. KNEEDLER: No, we --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- presenting to us?
MR. KNEEDLER: -- we think it does, for several
reasons. First, with respect to the constitutional
requirement, the uniformity provision applies to uniform
rules of naturalization; that is, citizenship. This --
we're not talking about citizenship here, we're talking --
we're talking about the eligibility of aliens to remain in
the country. Beyond that, even where the Uniformity
Clause applies -- and there's, for example, a parallel
Uniformity Clause for bankruptcy -- that's never been
interpreted to mean that consequences of certain conduct
under State law can have no impact on bankruptcy law, and
that there can't be a variation. The State-law homestead
exemption under the -- under the bankruptcy laws is a good
example of that.
But, going beyond that, with respect to the
issue of uniformity generally, Congress has established
uniform standards in Section 1101, either in terms of
identifying the conduct in certain instances; in other
instances, by identifying the minimum sentence that was
actually imposed. In this case, we think, with respect to
drug-trafficking crimes, it -- it's imposed a uniform
standard, in terms of the length of the sentence; it has
to be a felony. That's -- that is uniformity.
But the -- to answer your point more directly,
it is a principle throughout 1101(a)(43) that one looks to
State law, not to -- not to a -- some supposed uniform
standard of Federal law. And, for example, if you --
several subparagraphs -- and if you'll -- 1101(a)(43) is
set out at page 12(a) of the appendix to our brief --
three subparagraphs -- (j), (q), and (t) -- refer to the
sentence that may be imposed for a violation. Well, when
you're talking about a State conviction, that's clearly
referring to the sentence that may be imposed under State
law for a conviction. Four other subparagraphs -- (f),
(g), (r), and (s) -- turn on the sentence that was
actually imposed. That means that -- in the case of a
State crime, as we have here, that State law has to
authorize the sentence, and that the State Court, applying
State sentencing principles, has actually imposed a crime
of -- for -- of at least 1 year. So, it is -- it is
infused in Section 1101(a)(43) that, in fact, you do look
to the consequences of an offense under State law.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm prepared to accept perfect
ambiguity here, linguistically. And I thought of an
empirical question, that you may know the answer to, that
might shed some light.
Now, going along the way -- maybe I'm making a
mistake to point it out, if I am -- but I go to the key
thing here, which is the words in 924(c), What is a
"drug-trafficking crime"? A "drug-trafficking crime" is a
crime -- "any felony punishable under the Controlled
Substances Act." That could mean an act, physically, that
is a felony under some law, and is also punishable under
the Controlled Substances Act as a misdemeanor. Okay?
Felony under -- it could pick that up. And it also could
mean any conduct which is punishable as a felony under the
Controlled Substances Act. And I could look at those
words a thousand times and not have a clue which it means.
So, I thought of an empirical test. This
statute, 924(c), happens to be a statute that, if you
engage in a drug-trafficking crime, as defined, and you
have a gun with you, you get mandatory 5 years. That's
the point of it. And the Government does all the
prosecuting. So, in how many cases where a person
committed a misdemeanor offense, simple possession, and
had a gun, did the Government insist that they get the 5-
years minimum? Now, if you're prepared to tell me "a lot
of 'em," I'm prepared to tell you, the Government has
consistently interpreted the statute the way you are now.
But if you're prepared to tell me "zero," I would say I
would be suspicious of an interpretation that comes along
now for the first time. And my mind is open on it. I'm
quite interested in the answer.
MR. KNEEDLER: To my knowledge, we have not
brought crime -- prosecutions under 924(c)(1), based on
the circumstances you posit, but that's --
JUSTICE BREYER: But if --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- but I don't think that that
goes very far with respect to answering this question.
For one thing, as this Court pointed out in the Gonzales
decision, the requirement that there be a Federal crime,
and, therefore, a Federal felony under 924(c)(2), comes
from the language in 924(c)(1) that says that the crime
must be subject to prosecution in a court of the United
States. And this Court, in Gonzales, said it's that
language that renders the -- renders it a requirement that
it be a Federal crime. The definition of --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. We both agree. All --
everybody agrees here. It doesn't have to be a Federal
crime.
MR. KNEEDLER: It doesn't have to be --
JUSTICE BREYER: And --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- under 1101 --
JUSTICE BREYER: Correct, it doesn't have --
MR. KNEEDLER: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- to be. It could be conduct
that violates the State law, but -- and punish it under
the State law -- but the conduct involved would have to
constitute what is a felony under the Controlled
Substances --
MR. KNEEDLER: Would have to --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- Act.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- in our view, it would have to
constitute --
JUSTICE BREYER: A felony or a misdemeanor.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- it would have to be punishable
under the Controlled Substances --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- Act.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MR. KNEEDLER: But the important point here is
--
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, I say it's
suspicious.
MR. KNEEDLER: But the question is not what
924(c)(2) means, standing alone or in the abstract; it's
what it means, as incorporated into 1101(a)(43). And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And, of --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- there --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- course, that's --
when you get to that, it must give you pause that your
analysis is of a term, "drug-trafficking crime" or
"illicit trafficking," and your theory leads to the
conclusion that simple possession equates with drug
trafficking.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the Petitioner has
conceded, as I understand it -- I heard Mr. Long, I think,
concede -- that possession offenses can constitute
aggravated felonies under this provision, that there is
the recidivist possession, there is the possession of the
date-rape drug, there is possession of 5 grams or more of
cocaine. All of those are specified as being -- of being
felonies under the -- under 940 -- or 844. But, beyond
that, it's important to take into account that a lot of
State statutes dealing with drugs do not -- are not
patterned directly after the Federal statute, and there's
no reason why Congress would have insisted that they do so
in order for this statute to operate sensibly. And one
notable example, for instance, is, when it comes to
possession of a substantial amount of drugs, that that
certainly would create a strong implication that the
defendant was engaged in trafficking activities, or
intended to.
The Federal statute deals with that by making it
a felony to possess with intent to distribute the drug. A
number of States don't do that. They, instead, have
graduated possession offenses, based on the quantity of
drugs that the defendant is possessing; that above a
certain quantity of drugs, it would be a felony. They're
getting at the same problem, but they've come at it in a
different way.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then, in those cases, you can
say the conduct would constitute a felony under the
Federal statute; but here, if I recall correctly, the
amount involved would not have qualified for possession
with intent to distribute, under Federal law.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it would always be up to
the jury to decide that. Now, in Mr. Lopez's case, he was
-- he was initially charged with a series of offenses that
went beyond the aiding and abetting of possession that he
ultimately pleaded guilty to, but, as he testified in his
-- in his immigration hearing, his aiding and abetting of
possession was assisting someone in purchasing drugs,
which was, itself, a trafficking element. And so, this
shows that the way the State crimes are defined or applied
are often getting at what Federal law --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes. We have a case in which
we're assuming, for our purposes, we just have possession.
I mean, I understand the facts of this case. And I wanted
to ask -- I have two questions, Mr. Kneedler. One of them
-- the second one, I'd ask that -- you were going to
mention three different points, one about conviction; you
had two other points you didn't get to. I want to learn
what those were. But, before that, it seems to me that,
when you put the whole statute -- all the -- all the
different statutory provisions together, you really boil
down and focus on 924(c)(2) and the words "for purpose of
this subsection, the term 'drug-trafficking crime' means
any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances
Act." And if the word "Federal" had been inserted before
the word "felony" in the statute, would that not make the
statute perfectly clear?
MR. KNEEDLER: It probably would, but I think
it's interesting that the version of 924(c) that was in
effect prior to 1988 said exactly that. It said "felony
violation of Federal law."
JUSTICE STEVENS: It was a question of --
MR. KNEEDLER: It was -- it was explicit.
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- whether the change was
intended to be --
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, but --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- substantive --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- Congress --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- or merely --
MR. KNEEDLER: But --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- stylistic.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- Congress did change it, in the
1988 Act, but it did it -- and this is significant -- it
did it in connection with two changes in the immigration
law. One is the enactment of the definition of
"aggravated felony," which, as I have explained, the
definition of "aggravated felony" looks to State law, in a
number of respects, in terms of the severity of the
offense or the punishment actually imposed. That was one
change.
The other change that was made in the 1988 Act
was to amend Section 1326 with respect to illegal
reentries, and it did that by enhancing the penalty for
conviction of any felony other than an aggravated felony,
and an aggravated felony. And certainly the conviction of
any felony includes State law offenses in this --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Just again, Mr. Kneedler --
focusing again on that specific language, you're saying,
in effect, that that phrase means any State or Federal
felony punishable under the Federal statutes.
MR. KNEEDLER: It says -- yes, it says "any
felony." And that is our -- doing it -- and what --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And is it ever true that a
State felony is punishable under a Federal statute?
MR. KNEEDLER: The conduct is --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, I know, but --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- punishable. The conduct is
punishable, not --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- but do you know of any
instance where we've said a State felony is punishable
under a Federal statute?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think not -- I think not used
in that sense, but I think it's important -- it's
important to look at the language, as a whole. It does
not say "punishable as a felony under" --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you do agree --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- "under the Controlled" --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- that the key to the case is
how we read that one sentence.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, no, I agree that the -- I --
in my view, the key to the case is in 1101(a)(43),
because, if you look at the structure of 1101(a)(43) --
and this gets to the question you -- you said -- you
mentioned that I had three reasons. One is that under the
-- under the INA, the conviction consequences turn on the
conviction of an aggravated felony, and it only makes
sense to look at the jurisdiction of conviction to
determine the nature of the crime, whether it's a felony.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but you don't -- you
don't look to the jurisdiction of conviction. Are you
telling me you require a conviction? You -- I thought you
told me you don't require a conviction.
MR. KNEEDLER: No. Under 924(c), you don't.
But under the -- under the -- if you're bringing a Federal
prosecution under 924(c), the term "aggravated felony" has
no role in that determination. It is a -- it is a
separate Federal crime. We're talking about, here, the
consequences of -- the consequences of being an aggravated
felon under 1101(a)(43) are, Where does the definition of
"aggravated felony" apply? It only applies under the INA
if someone has been convicted of an aggravated felony.
You're only -- you're only subject to deportation for
aggravated felony if you've been convicted, you're
ineligible for cancellation or removal, you're subject to
sentence enhancement. All those things follow on
conviction. And we think it only makes sense to look to
the jurisdiction of conviction. That is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right, Mr. Kneedler,
assuming that -- as I understand it, the answer you just
gave, your second point, as well as the point that you and
Justice Stevens were debating, turns, in your view, on a
definition, or a reading, of the statute that would work
this way: that if, under State law, the act were a felony,
but, under Federal law, the action was merely a
misdemeanor, it would still, for purposes of this
definition, be an aggravated felony.
MR. KNEEDLER: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That -- isn't that very
strange, that Congress would have wanted a reading of the
statute that would turn its definition of a "misdemeanor
crime" into an aggravated felony for purposes of the
immigration law?
MR. KNEEDLER: I don't think so at all. And for
one -- for one thing -- as I've mentioned, the structure
of the act, as a whole, of 1101(a)(43) -- and there are
numerous subsections -- look to how the crime -- what the
authorized punishment was, or look to how the person was
actually sentenced under State law, not under Federal law.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but I'm --
MR. KNEEDLER: And I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- saying, if --
MR. KNEEDLER: No -- I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, go ahead.
MR. KNEEDLER: I also haven't mentioned the
explicit provision, that one of the other Justices
mentioned earlier -- I think, the Chief Justice -- that
the penultimate sentence of 1101(a)(43) says that
something -- a -- an offense constitutes an aggravated
felony, whether in violation of Federal or State laws.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well --
MR. KNEEDLER: So --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- I know it says that, but
that doesn't necessarily take you any further than saying
that if the words of the statute refer to something that
could be a State law felony, under the -- under the
penultimate sentence, it will count. It does not
necessarily answer the question that we have, and that is
whether a particular reference in the statute is a
reference to a Federal felony or a State felony. So, it
has a -- the penultimate sentence has work to do. And, in
fact, we can see the work being done in the -- in the very
definition of "drug trafficking" -- but it doesn't
necessarily lead to the conclusion that you draw from it.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, we think -- we think it is
quite a -- we think it's a strong confirmation of the
pattern in 1101(a)(43), that the statute looks to what
happened in State Court, and the State punishment that was
authorized there, and the express mention of that -- or --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Even when --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- requirement.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- the consequence, in effect,
is to turn for -- turn the gravity of the Federal
misdemeanor into the gravity of --
MR. KNEEDLER: But the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- a felony that --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- the Federal Controlled --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- just happens to be a State
felony.
MR. KNEEDLER: The Federal Controlled Substances
Act does not occupy the field of drug control in the
country, any more than any other Federal crime occupies
that field. And --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, I realize that. But, if
we're asking, "What is important in the mind of Congress,
for purposes of the immigration law?" one would suppose
that the most obvious touchstone of importance is the way
Federal law deals with it -- i.e., in the case of a crime,
whether Federal law calls it a felony or Federal law calls
it a misdemeanor. You know, in your reading, when Federal
law calls it a misdemeanor, if State law calls it a
felony, it becomes a Federal felony for the immigration
law. And that's what seems to me odd.
MR. KNEEDLER: Right. And this is not the only
place where that consequence can arise. There are --
there are cases involving "What's a crime of violence?"
which is -- which, under subparagraph (g), is another
aggravated felony. The crime of violence is defined in 18
U.S.C. Section 16, subsection (b) of that -- this Court
considered that statute in Leocal -- requires that the
offense be a felony which creates a serious risk of
physical harm. The courts have looked to the State law of
conviction to determine whether something is a felony --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kneedler, could --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- under that provision.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I just ask one --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's one thing to turn to State
law to get an answer where there is no other answer. The
problem here is that State law and Federal law are at odds
in determining the gravity of the offense. The Federal
law, on my hypothesis, would say, "It is minor; it's just
a misdemeanor." The State says, "No, it is a felony." It
seems to me very odd, given the tension between the State
and Federal classifications, to say that, for Federal
purposes, the State classification is going to trump the
Federal classification; and that's a different situation
from the one you posit.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, and -- if I could just
mention one other -- on other example, under the theft-
offense category in subsection -- I think it's (f) --
where a theft offense is deemed to be an aggravated felony
if a sentence of at least 1 year was imposed. There are
misdemeanor offenses there that -- as a matter of Federal
law, it can be a misdemeanor for certain types of theft
offenses; and yet, they are covered as aggravated
felonies. And, again, that would --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kneedler, could I ask you
about your assertion that you "look to the State of
conviction"? What do you mean by that? For purposes of
1101. Does that mean, if you're convicted, in State
court, of a misdemeanor -- and even though that action
would be a Federal felony, it's not an aggravated felony?
MR. KNEEDLER: That is our position, yes.
Because the requirement -- the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, it's sort of a double
inconsistency. Not only do you treat State -- State
actions that are -- that are minimal -- I'm sorry, where
the State treats it more seriously than the Federal
Government, not only do you follow the State, but, where
the State treats it less leniently than the Federal
Government, you also follow the State.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that right?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. And we -- yes. We think
that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, you look to the State of
conviction. What --
MR. KNEEDLER: that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's for purposes of the
immigration law.
MR. KNEEDLER: Of the immigration law. And,
again, we think that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Now, do you do the same
for purposes of the felony enhancement provision?
MR. KNEEDLER: 924(c)? No, you don't, because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- the aggravated-felony question
has no -- has no -- the "aggravated felony" term has no
operative significance under 924 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that seems to me --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- itself.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- very strange. You would
look to the -- you would look to the State law for
purposes of the immigration section; but, for purposes of
924(c), what would you look to? Either one. Either one.
Whichever --
MR. KNEEDLER: No, 924 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- whichever -- for 924 --
whichever one would make it a felony.
MR. KNEEDLER: No, under --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You lose.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- under 924(c)(1), this Court --
this Court, in the Gonzales case, said that it -- that it
has to be a Federal crime, but not because of the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- definition in --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- 924(c)(2) --
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- but --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If it's a felony under either
one, for purposes of 924(c), you lose, right?
MR. KNEEDLER: I don't think I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If the act is either a State
felony or a Federal felony, you lose. I mean, the
defendant gets the enhanced sentence, right, under 924(c)?
MR. KNEEDLER: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No?
MR. KNEEDLER: Under 924(c), the cases that have
been brought have all been situations where it is a
Federal offense. But, because -- not because of the
language in 924(c)(2) --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- but because of the -- of the
language --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Listen.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- in 924(c)(1).
JUSTICE SCALIA: Listen. My question is a
simple one. If it's -- it seems to me, if it's -- what
you're saying is, if it is either a felony under Federal
law or a felony under State law, you get the enhanced
sentence under 924(c), isn't that right?
MR. KNEEDLER: I -- my understanding of the way
924(c)(1) has operated is that if it is a misdemeanor
under Federal law, but maybe it would be a Federal felony,
it would not be -- it would not give rise to the
enhancement, because it is not a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that's --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- what the whole argument is
about, whether it has to be a felony under Federal law.
You're telling me, if it's a misdemeanor under Federal
law, that you don't get --
MR. KNEEDLER: But not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the enhanced sentence?
MR. KNEEDLER: -- but not under -- not under
924(c)(2) --
JUSTICE BREYER: But why not?
MR. KNEEDLER: -- the definitional --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You've thoroughly confused me
now.
JUSTICE BREYER: But 924(c)(1) says that if you
have a gun, and you have a drug-trafficking crime, book, 5
years.
Okay, now we go to two, what's a "drug-
trafficking crime"? It means any felony punishable under
the -- under the Controlled Substances Act. Now, in your
definition, we first look to see whether simple possession
is punishable under the -- in Controlled Substances Act.
It sure is. It sure is. It's punishable as a
misdemeanor. So, it meets that. Under your definition,
is it a felony? Yup, it's a felony in South Dakota.
Okay. So, now we've got a prosecution, in Federal Court
in South Dakota. And, on your reading of the statute,
that guy should get a bump-up of 5 years.
MR. KNEEDLER: No, that is not our reading of
the statute. The --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because?
MR. KNEEDLER: The only thing that is
incorporated into 1101(a)(43) is the definition in (c)(2)
-- not (c)(1), the definition of --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- of "drug-trafficking crime" in
(c)(2), which says --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- "felony punishable under the
Controlled" --
JUSTICE BREYER: Right.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- "Substances Act."
JUSTICE BREYER: Right.
MR. KNEEDLER: That is what gets plugged into --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's correct.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- 1101(a)- --
JUSTICE BREYER: Right.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- -(43).
JUSTICE BREYER: Right.
MR. KNEEDLER: Along with all of the other
provisions in 1101(a)(43), you look to State law, in the
case of a State offense -- the State of conviction, the
jurisdiction --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- of conviction -- to determine
the nature of the crime.
JUSTICE BREYER: But you still have to know
whether that word, "felony," in (2) means "any felony
punishable as a felony under the Controlled" --
MR. KNEEDLER: Right. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- "Substances Act."
MR. KNEEDLER: And --
JUSTICE BREYER: And there --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- a number --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah. You have to know the
answer to that.
MR. KNEEDLER: -- a number of Courts of Appeals
that have looked at this in the sentencing context over
the years have concluded that it -- that the absence of
that language is very significant, and the presence of the
language that says "any felony" is also significant.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Never mind sentencing, let's
get back to the immigration. If I understand what you're
now saying, if you're convicted in State Court of action
that is a Federal felony, but it's just a State
misdemeanor -- right? -- you look to the State of
conviction, and it would be a misdemeanor, and the
immigration provisions would not -- would not take effect.
Is --
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that right?
MR. KNEEDLER: And that -- and that -- that's
not true --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's extraordinary.
MR. KNEEDLER: No, but it's -- that's not --
only true under this provision of 1101(a)(4). The other
-- the other provisions -- (f) and (g) and (j) and (q) and
(t) that I mentioned, that looked to the sentence that may
be imposed under State law, or that was actually imposed
-- would, likewise, render someone in that situation who
was convicted of only a misdemeanor in State Court -- even
though it might be a felony under Federal law, they would
not be -- they would not be convicted of an aggravated
felony, because --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- of the way Congress chose to
write 1101(a)(43).
JUSTICE STEVENS: But is --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- that a reasonable -- let's
say the statute's ambiguous, and you've convinced us
there's no constitutional requirement of uniformity. But
is it reasonable to assume that Congress would want the
different consequences to depend on the State of
conviction?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think it is. I mean, they're
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is there anything in the
legislative history suggesting that?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think -- as I say, I think it's
on face of the statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Barrett suggests otherwise.
If what Congress was trying to do was to codify that
practice of looking for an analogous crime under State
law, that's -- that seems to me the -- at least what
Congress was trying do.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, that -- the legislative
history of the amendment in 1990 does not discuss the
aspect of Barrett that went to the comparison to decide
what -- in what circumstances there would be an analogous
Federal crime. It was clear that it wanted to ratify the
result that State crimes are covered.
But we think that that was evident from the 1988
amendments to -- that both enacted the definition of
"aggravated felony," revised the definition of "drug-
trafficking crime" to delete the requirement that it be a
Federal felony -- that was deleted in 1988 -- and enhanced
sentences --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- under 1326, clearly on the --
on -- by reference to whether someone was convicted of a
State felony, without any -- without any general Federal
minimum.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I --
MR. KNEEDLER: What Congress --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I just switch gears for a
moment, because your time is almost up, and we -- you
haven't addressed the mootness problem in Toledo-Flores.
MR. KNEEDLER: In Toledo-Flores.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is the Second Circuit wrong
in U.S. v. Hamdi? Because it seems to me that U.S. v.
Hamdi is on all fours with respect to mootness.
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. We think it is wrong, be --
under this Court's decision in Spencer versus Kemna and
other cases, that, if the possible consequence turns on a
discretionary judgment that may be made by someone else,
that is too speculative to constitute a real live case or
controversy. And that's what I understand Toledo-Flores
to be arguing, is that if he applied for discretionary
relief in the future, that it might -- it might matter,
because his sentence might be reduced slightly.
I should point out that in the District Court
Toledo-Flores conceded that if he didn't get an eight-
level sentence enhancement, he would get a four-level
sentence enhancement, because this is at least a felony,
within the meaning of the adjacent provision of the
guidelines. That would result in a guideline range of 24
to 30 months. He would then have gotten 24 months, under
that guideline range, the very same thing that he got
here. And, under the guidelines at the time, a term of
supervised release was mandatory. And a 1-year term of
supervised release was mandatory in those circumstances.
He would have gotten exactly the same term of supervised
release if he had been -- if he had gotten only the four-
level enhancement, rather than the eight-level
enhancement.
I also think that it is somewhat farfetched to
think that, given the fact that Toledo-Flores had more
than 12 illegal entries into the United States, and
various State offenses, that the determination of whether
the attorney general would actually grant discretionary
relief would turn on a marginal difference in the sentence
on that particular offense.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Kneedler.
Mr. Long, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. LONG, JR.
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER LOPEZ
MR. LONG: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
In answer to Justice Breyer's question, Mr.
Kneedler said that a Federal misdemeanor is a drug-
trafficking crime under Section 924(c) if a State punishes
it as a felony. He said, "Well, the Federal Government
never prosecutes Federal misdemeanors under Section
924(c)." He said, "The reason is because of
924(c)(1)(A)," and the language there is, it has to be an
offense for which the person may be prosecuted in a court
of the United States. But that language -- a person may
be prosecuted in a court of the United States for a
misdemeanor. So, the Government is making an argument
that, to my knowledge, has never been accepted by any
court, has not ever been advanced by the Government in a
criminal context, and that would significantly expand
Section 924(c) and numerous other criminal statutes that
we cite in our brief that used the same definition of
"drug-trafficking crime."
The -- Mr. Kneedler also said that the
aggravated felony provisions in Section 101(a)(43) refer
to State law, but I read them just the opposite. There
are two kinds. There are 21 of them. Many of them say,
"an offense described in 18 U.S. Code Section X." I mean,
that's really what -- we're dealing with one of those
here. So, it clearly goes to Federal law to define the
offense. Now, if State law or foreign law also punishes
that offense, then it's an aggravated felony, but,
clearly, Federal law is defining the offense.
There are other categories, such as murder and
theft, that are defined, in general terms; but the
Government's position, as I understand it, is, again, you
use a generic uniform definition. You don't pick any
definition that the States may have. The Court just
granted --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought -- I
thought you conceded that a State offense could constitute
illicit trafficking --
MR. LONG: Well, yes --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- in a Controlled
Substance --
MR. LONG: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. But, again,
to be clear -- and I think this is consistent with the
Government's position in other cases -- ultimately, there
will be some uniform Federal definition of what
constitutes illicit trafficking. It would be -- some
commercial element would probably be the definition the
Court hasn't decided. States can define it more broadly.
But the actual definition -- just as the definition of
"burglary" or "theft" --
JUSTICE ALITO: You think there's a uniform
Federal definition of a theft offense?
MR. LONG: Well, it's -- I mean, as -- this --
in the Taylor case, in burglary, the Court has a
methodology for this. You pick a sort of generic
definition. It may not -- it may not come from a Federal
statute; it could --
JUSTICE ALITO: There's -- they'll -- there's no
variation in State offenses that would fall within that, a
theft offense?
MR. LONG: Well, it's -- again, this is -- the
provision we're dealing with is -- looks to Federal law,
the Controlled Substances Act and two other statutes. My
understanding of the Government's position -- and it's
consistent with this Court's cases, in Taylor -- is that,
even when it's a generic offense, you would -- you would
still have a uniform definition. And that is certainly
consistent with the principle of uniformity that applies
both in criminal law and in immigration law. I mean, if
there's any ambiguity, at the end of the day, ambiguities
are supposed to be resolved in favor of uniformity,
uniform Federal law -- uniform Federal criminal law, and
uniform immigration law. Effectively, what the Government
is arguing that -- is that States can banish noncitizens,
and can do so by enacting drug laws, deciding to make a
simple possession offense a felony. That's a decision
that a State would make, almost certainly, for reasons
that have little or nothing to do with immigration, and
it's highly unlikely that Congress would have left that
determination to States.
On uniformity, aggravated felonies is a
condition for citizenship. If you're convicted of an
aggravated felony, you may not become a U.S. citizen. You
are foreclosed from establishing good moral character.
So, in fact, citizenship is at stake here, and the
Uniformity Clause is in play.
If there are no further questions, thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Long.
The case is submitted.
[Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.]
57:8 amendments 13:22 17:17 34:14 37:11
60:9 9:19 10:7 amount 37:4,19 49:20 56:18 2:2 3:4,7,10,13
30:6,11,12,14 36:11 assertion 46:13 26:23
5:2,10 46:17 47:18 answered 14:14 assume 53:20 blue 6:6
53:10 54:17 answering 34:18 assuming 38:7 boil 38:15
7:12 8:21 57:14,21 59:24 ANTONIO 1:3 42:3 book 50:8
10:10 60:1 appeal 17:22,23 attorney 1:7 bought 29:4
aggravated-fe... 17:25 20:22 23:10,18 56:13 break 26:10
13:2 47:17 24:16 authority 22:24 Breyer 10:19,23
16:20,23 agree 4:17 5:3 Appeals 29:4 31:9 10:25 11:2,9
27:20,24 10:14 16:21 52:9 authorize 33:2 11:12,14,17,23
33:16,16 35:2 40:20,24 APPEARAN... authorized 12:1,9,11,13
35:16 agreed 7:15 1:20 42:21 44:2 12:16,18,20
38:19 agrees 35:3 appendix 6:6,9 automatically 14:14 22:20,22
42:7 ahead 43:2 7:8 32:18 18:4 25:7,10,20,22
44:14 aiding 37:24 applied 15:2,12 a.m 1:19 4:2 26:9,14 33:7
50:12,14 38:1 15:15 24:7 60:8 34:16 35:2,6,8
52:3 59:6 ALBERTO 1:6 38:4 55:16 35:10,16,19,22
46:16 alien 26:19 15:11,16 16:5 b 6:12 45:7 50:3,7,23 51:2
aliens 31:20 31:17,22 41:19 back 16:3 18:19 51:5,8,10,12
ambiguous arguing 55:16 Bar 10:6 bringing 29:9
10:2 32:7 37:13 7:21 32:21 43:22 considered 45:8
46:9 54:22 57:19,22 concrete 24:21 consistent 58:11
59:10,20 25:11 condition 21:13 34:8
changes 39:13 Code 4:12 5:12 26:21 37:17 55:14
6:22,23 15:14 codifying 14:5 27:5,9,19,23 31:9,11
21:15,17 22:1 21:25 37:14 confirmation 31:2
27:15 36:7,9 comes 34:10,21 confused 50:5 17:22
41:23 58:4,8,10 60:6 coming 31:5 6:3,25 7:23 52:10 57:9
55:7 34:4 39:7,11 42:13 controlled 4:13
19:2 circumstances committing 44:18 53:13,20 4:15,17,20,23
21:24 25:8 34:15 22:18 54:5,8 55:2 5:2,10,16,21
23:2 54:12 56:4 comparison 59:22 5:23 6:19,20
26:18 cite 57:11 54:11 connection 7:11 8:9,21 9:8
32:9,25 cited 23:1 26:16 completely 39:13 9:18,23,25
38:6,8 citing 14:15 20:25 consecutive 10:9,14,16,21
44:21 citizen 20:8 22:8 component 10:8 14:16,25 11:1,5,7 13:2
51:19 23:24 24:10 concede 8:1 12:2 consequence 14:9 16:20,22
58:22 60:1 12:4,11,22 19:25 21:3,4 16:24 27:20,24
citizenship 36:17 21:10 44:5 33:15,18,21
20:24 60:3 55:20 58:5 consequences 40:21 44:10,13
24:20 classification conceivable 21:2 22:23 50:12,14 51:7
34:3 45:25 46:1 20:13,14,19 24:18 27:7 52:1 58:8 59:6
45:4 classifications 24:14 26:2,9 28:19,23 29:13 controversy
55:12 45:24 concession 30:4,18 31:24 55:15
59:8 Clause 31:22,23 12:15,21 13:5 33:6 41:4,17 convicted 28:20
46:5 54:13 58:11 conclusion 28:2 considerable 46:15 52:16
54:23 34:24 44:1 21:22 22:2,6 defines 7:9 develops 25:14
45:7 46:16 22:14 23:1,8 defining 57:22 difference 56:14
21:10 52:16 53:8 24:4,9,12,15 7:21,25 10:17 9:21 22:8,11
28:25 55:19 57:3,5,8 24:24 25:4,8 15:10 16:1,14 22:17 37:15
58:2,16,22 25:17,21,25 16:18 17:8 38:11,15 46:1
courts 29:3 26:4,7,13 28:6 35:1 53:21
38:11 45:10 52:9 27:11 39:14,16 41:18 direct 21:4
41:4 Court's 15:13 CSA 7:14 42:6,10,14 direction 26:24
19:6,23 55:11 cut 19:8 43:21 48:11 31:11
42:1 59:8 50:13,16,25 directly 32:13
46:14 covered 46:10 D 51:1 54:16,17 36:25
51:19,22 54:14 D 4:1 57:11 58:1,2 discretion 23:18
53:22 create 37:5 Dakota 11:3 58:13,15,17,17 discretionary
crime 4:11,19 date-rape 8:23 definitional 50:4 discuss 54:10
35:8 13:25 16:2,16 57:18 59:5 depend 53:21 24:19
51:12 16:19 17:9 deals 37:8 44:21 dependent distribute 8:16
33:14,14,15,25 decide 11:18 deportation 8:15
38:17 41:7,16 decided 14:15 deported 18:1 19:12 21:21
21:7,8 48:9 50:8,11 deciding 59:18 26:17,19 31:8
44:15 51:3,23 54:6 decision 11:21 Deputy 2:1 doctrine 20:11
57:12 55:11 59:19 16:5,8,9,13,15 double 46:20
20:3 32:10 38:4 deemed 46:6 17:3,7 57:17 driving 22:18
54:14 defeats 24:22 desirable 27:3 drug 7:10 8:23
7:13,16 7:18,25 12:23 37:12 48:21 41:15 56:12 27:17 36:13,20
11:21,21 16:2,21 20:18 defendant's 59:23 37:9 43:21
17:20 26:17 29:21,22 4:24 determine 30:21 44:14 50:10
57:9,10 59:12 Defender 1:24 41:7 45:11 54:17 56:22
59:15 define 8:18 51:22 59:18
21:1,21 Crooks 1:23 3:6 57:19 58:16 determines drugs 25:13,23
24:15,20 17:16,17,19 defined 4:11 30:22 36:24 37:4,12
26:16 18:7,13,18 8:12 33:25 determining 37:13 38:2
27:3,16 19:1,14,17,22 38:4 45:6 45:20 drug-trafficki...
34:19,23 20:21 21:11,16 57:24 developed 10:5 4:11,19 5:11
7:17,22 55:21,22 56:7 18:4 52:17 53:9 53:9,11 54:17
16:16,19 56:8 extradited 18:19 54:13,19,24 54:19,24 55:22
28:6 enhancing 39:22 19:3 56:22,24,25 56:24 57:14,21
33:14,14 entering 22:13 extraordinary 57:19,22 58:13 59:19 60:1
36:11 entirety 16:18 53:1 58:20,24 59:5 field 44:14,16
50:8 entries 56:11 59:15,15 filed 19:10
57:12 equates 36:13 F felon 41:18 find 6:5
face 18:20 54:3 7:24 10:7,9 first 4:4 5:18 8:8
7:2 60:2 33:5 43:20 46:11 59:24 22:12 28:19
evaluating factors 23:14 5:15 7:5 9:8,19 focus 38:16
40:3 everybody 35:3 fall 8:18 59:2 11:2,4,6,6,12 40:2
52:20 evident 54:15 far 29:3 34:18 11:22,25 12:5 follow 41:24
59:16 56:5 favor 59:14 13:24 15:16 followed 14:6
47:25,25 32:3,16 37:3 4:13,23,25 5:5 28:19 30:6,11 foreclosed 60:2
49:10 46:4 5:10,23 6:20 30:12,14,16,17 foreign 16:6,11
58:15 excessively 8:6 9:14,17 33:15,17,19,20 57:20
20:13 24:13 16:6 17:1 39:15,16,23,23 fours 55:9
expired 20:24 37:8,18,20 41:20,22 42:7 21:14,19 43:12
43:4 42:22 43:8,18 44:25 45:6,9 23:8 55:17
49:11,25 expressed 24:8 44:25 45:19,20 47:18 48:4,16 g 4:1 5:19 6:8,10
expressly 28:15 45:24,24 46:1 48:20,20 49:10 6:13,18 32:24
28:22 extend 21:21 48:9,20 49:1 50:11,17,17 gang 25:15
41:24 extent 10:15 49:10,15,15,21 51:6,25,25 gears 55:3
49:17 extinguished 49:22 50:18 52:1,13,17 general 1:7 2:1
23:18 8:4 11:4 17:21 22:6 23:2,12 28:17,20 30:1 intent 8:15 37:9
56:13 29:4 57:25 23:22 24:9 30:18 41:4,19 37:20
58:12 59:7 25:4,25 inadmissibility intention 24:8
granted 23:17 17:6 interpret 9:4
gravity 44:6,7 identical 31:4 10:17 13:25 interpretation
14:11 ground 30:10 32:8 39:25 34:10
19:13,15 guess 26:10 illegal 30:16 including 10:13 interpreted
22:21,23 guideline 55:24 39:21 56:11 27:4 11:25 31:24
30:24 56:1 illicit 8:8,13 inconsistency 34:8
37:16 guidelines 55:24 9:16,22,24 46:21 intoxicated
54:4 56:2 10:6,13,17 incorporate 22:18
55:1,3,7 guilty 37:25 17:10,11 36:12 28:5 involved 25:12
guy 50:20 immigration 29:17,20 36:6 involving 20:10
H 28:23 29:13 incorporates irrespective
23:13 55:8,9 38:1 39:13 incorporation issue 32:5
25:17 26:11 47:10,11,24 indication 7:15
20:16,17 44:1 59:16,21 indications 5:15 j 32:19 53:4
22:4 happens 28:5,9 impact 23:5 ineligibility Jerome 11:20
24:1 33:24 44:11 31:25 30:13 14:15,15,18
33:11 happenstance implication 6:2 ineligible 41:23 15:6,6,11,21
45:25 31:7 6:25 37:5 information 27:3
14:16,18 hear 4:3 17:16 44:20 infused 33:5 JR 1:21 3:3,12
34:19,24 heard 25:10,11 important 35:25 ingenious 20:19 4:7 56:18
36:16 36:23 40:17,18 initial 9:10 judgment 55:13
heavily 23:10 importantly injury 24:21 18:9 19:6,7
26:16 imposed 32:9,10 insist 34:5 29:1 30:19
12:8,14 Heronka 23:16 33:3 39:18 instance 5:7 51:20
25:13,23 highly 59:22 46:7 53:6,6 21:16,18 37:3 jury 37:22
34:2,5,7 history 14:3 impossible 21:8 40:14 Justice 2:2 4:3,9
47:1 54:1,10 21:9 instances 19:1 5:3,8 6:1,4,6,7
57:6,8 hold 24:16 imprisonment 32:7,8 6:12,15,16,22
homestead 32:1 20:3 23:5 intended 37:7 6:24 8:3,7,11
10:4,19 49:25 50:3,5,7 47:17,21 48:2 32:16,23 33:1 5:8 6:2,5,8,13
11:2 50:23 51:2,5,8 48:5,7,11,13 33:6,17 35:11 6:21,23 8:4,11
51:10,12,14,16 48:15,18,22,24 35:12 37:20 8:13,20 9:1,11
12:1,9 51:21,24 52:3 49:4,7,13,19 38:5,25 39:14 10:4,23 11:1,8
52:5,7,14,23 49:24 50:1,4 39:16,25 42:7 11:11,13,16,19
13:3,5,8 53:1,12,15,16 50:21,24 51:3 42:8,16,22,22 11:24 12:8,10
53:17,25 54:4 51:6,9,11,13 43:14 44:19,21 12:12,14,17,19
14:11,12 54:21 55:1,3,7 51:15,17,22 44:22,22,24,24 12:22 13:4,7,9
56:16,20,21 52:2,4,6,9,22 45:1,10,18,19 13:12,16,19
58:4,8,10,19 52:24 53:2,12 45:19,21 46:9 14:2,24 15:4,7
17:5 59:1 60:6 53:13,23 54:2 47:10,11,23 15:19,22,24
18:5 Justices 43:4 54:9,22 55:2,6 49:11,11,15,21 17:8,15 31:12
55:10 56:16,22 49:23 51:18 36:16 56:17,18
K 57:13 53:6,9 54:7 56:20 58:7,10
21:5 k 5:19 6:9,10,14 know 11:16 57:15,19,20,20 58:21 59:4
22:1 keep 22:25 20:11,15 23:22 57:22 59:5,12 60:6
Kemna 19:24 29:3 33:9 59:12,15,15,16 look 6:24 11:17
23:7 20:25 55:11 40:10,13 43:11 laws 31:10 32:2 11:19 14:2
Kennedy 5:3,8 44:23 51:24 43:8 59:18 19:25 21:1
13:3,5,8 14:12 52:7 lead 43:22 28:25,25 30:19
25:7,10 14:14 15:3,5,8 knowledge leads 36:12 30:21,25 33:5
26:1 28:8,12,14 34:13 57:7 learn 38:12 33:21 40:18
key 4:14 33:12 learns 18:18 41:1,6,9,25
40:22,25 L 19:9 42:20,21 46:13
kind 31:8 labels 27:7 leaves 21:7,8 47:6,23,23,25
kinds 57:16 Lane 19:24 left 59:22 50:13 51:18
30:1 Kneedler 2:1 20:24 legal 22:18 52:18
31:1 3:9 27:12,13 language 5:16 legislative 14:3 looked 7:2 45:10
33:7 27:15 28:10,13 5:20 13:10 15:21 54:1,9 52:10 53:5
35:2,6,8 28:15 29:6,8 15:24 16:4 length 23:9,13 looking 6:18
29:12,16,19,25 34:22,25 40:2 32:11 54:6
36:2,7,9 30:2,8,10,24 40:18 49:2,5 leniently 46:25 looks 32:14
38:6 30:25 31:13,15 52:12,13 57:2 Leocal 45:8 39:16 43:25
34:13,17 35:5 57:4 let's 52:14 53:17 59:5
35:7,9,15,17 laundering 16:9 level 55:21 56:7 Lopez 1:3,22 3:4
41:8 35:20,23,25 16:10,14 light 33:10 3:13 4:4,8
36:4,8,15 law 4:24,25 5:5 likewise 53:7 56:19
43:2,5,9 37:21 38:9,22 6:18 7:1,1,12 limit 15:5 Lopez's 6:6
44:3,5,9 39:2,5,7,9,11 9:14 11:3 12:5 limits 15:8 37:22
45:12 40:1,5,9,11,16 12:6,24,25 linguistically lose 11:15 48:6
40:21,24 41:12 13:25 15:1,18 33:8 48:17,20
47:3 42:2,11,17,24 16:6,6,11,11 listed 8:24 lot 34:6 36:23
43:1,3,10,23 16:25 17:1 Listen 49:6,8
48:3 44:4,8,10,13 19:2 21:14,19 little 7:5 59:21 M
45:2,12,14 21:23 22:5,12 live 55:14 making 12:14
46:3,12,18 27:25 30:20,22 Long 1:21 3:3 33:11 37:8
47:2,4,8,11,15 31:25,25 32:15 3:12 4:6,7,9 57:6
14:4,10 necessarily 11:6 parties 4:17
6:3 7:5,6
44:18 52:14 need 29:5,8,12 8:2,18,20,21 patterned 36:25
10:3
46:8 34:6 54:25 never 20:22 penalty 39:22
37:11,23
60:9 minor 45:21 24:15 31:23 39:25 46:8,10penultimate
12:1 5:16 10:24 noncitizens officials 23:15 19:2 25:18
17:1 33:18 59:17 Oh 12:1 23:23 26:10 31:4
28:9 34:4 35:19 nonimmigrant Okay 6:7 33:18 perfect 33:7
33:16,20 42:9,14 44:7 20:7 24:5 perfectly 10:20
50:10,18
46:14,15 44:23,24 45:22 notable 37:3 omitted 4:14 38:21
53:23 46:8,9,16 noticed 14:19 period 19:11,11
58:21 49:14,22 50:16 now-expired open 34:11 19:15
52:18,19 53:8 21:2 operate 37:2 person 12:4
misdemeanors 20:5 37:10 operative 28:5 23:16,20 25:11
32:25 56:25 numerous 42:20 opinion 14:21 57:3,4
36:5,6 mistake 33:12 57:10 opposite 57:15 persons 18:15
40:3 modification oral 1:17 3:2,5,821:24
51:25 16:18 O 4:7 17:17 Petitioner 1:4
38:11 55:25,25 occupy 44:14 outcome 14:22 Petitioner's
46:4 moot 17:22,23 October 1:15 outlawed 9:3 27:23
41:3 24:17 25:1 odds 45:19 9:10 10:12
43:3,5 26:24 offense 5:4 7:10 P 11:22 40:3
mootness 24:24 7:10,12,12 P 4:1 physical 45:10
morning 4:4 16:12,15,16,23 paper 20:5 33:19 58:1,23
murder 57:23 27:17 33:6 15:17 piece 17:10
N 3:1,1 4:1 46:5,6 49:1 parole 26:10 pleaded 37:25
21:21,24 31:18 57:3,17,20,21 particular 27:8 27:16
nature 41:7 57:22 58:5,20 28:24 43:17 plugged 51:11
24:6 principle 15:2 punishable 4:12 r 1:6 4:1 32:24 reinforce 28:18
15:11,12,23 4:14,18,22,25 range 55:24 relating 6:18
32:13 32:14 59:11 5:1,5,15,21 56:1 release 18:3,6
34:2 principles 33:3 6:20 7:10,14 ratify 54:13 18:10,24 19:2
42:4,4 prior 21:10 9:18 10:9,13 read 9:9 10:12 19:4,7,8 20:16
38:24 10:15,21 11:5 40:23 57:15 21:8,9,25 22:9
34:19 20:4 22:10 13:1 16:19 44:23 50:19,21 26:21 56:3,4,6
probably 38:22 33:17,20 35:20 23:21 24:1 relevant 28:3
46:18 26:17 51:6 52:1 realize 44:17 remain 31:20
58:12 problem 37:14 punished 4:20 really 12:19,22 remaining 4:15
45:19 55:5 13:2 20:14 24:2 56:17
9:3,22 promotes 27:2 39:18 42:21 reasonable renders 34:25
34:4 pronounce 8:23 44:1 53:17,20 34:25
proper 30:25 purchasing 38:2 reasons 31:16 reply 23:1
37:4,11 properly 27:25 purpose 38:16 41:3 59:20 repudiation
38:2 prosecuted 7:13 purposes 7:23 REBUTTAL 15:21
50:13 7:20 57:3,5 15:11 38:7 3:11 56:18 require 41:10,11
prosecutes 42:9,15 44:19 recall 37:18 requirement
34:3 48:17 record 26:5 53:19 54:18
prosecution put 38:14 reduce 20:5 requirements
prosecutions qualified 37:19 reduction 20:2 45:8
34:6,7,9 28:5,16 31:17 question 9:20 43:13 57:14 25:5
59:5 43:16 47:17 referred 5:20 21:12 22:7,12
3:10 27:14 saying 13:24 40:17 41:6,25 49:9 50:13 12:25 13:15,25
49:10 52:16 17:24 18:3 12:25 17:6,11 25:21
12:24,24 15:15 21:2,4,6,7 situation 46:1 30:22 31:7,25
40:5,5 43:6,11 24:17,21 26:18 situations 48:25 33:1,1,2,3,6
51:4 52:13 32:20,22,24 Soliciting 9:14 38:4 39:16,25
23:19,23,25 48:21 49:12,25 46:22 44:11,24 45:10
26:1,6 29:2,7 55:22 56:14 58:23 45:25 46:13,15
18:25 30:1,7,9 41:8 sentences 14:25 42:2,12,23,25 46:25 47:1,6
35:9,24 45:12,16 46:12 20:25 28:22 43:2,9,11 44:3 47:23 48:19
42:2 45:2 46:20 47:3,6,9 54:20 44:5,9,11,17 49:11 51:18,19
48:12,14 47:13,16,20,22 sentencing 45:13,15,17 51:19 52:16,17
49:12 48:3,6,10,12 14:17 27:6 South 11:3 12:5 52:18 53:6,8
48:14,16,19,23 33:3 52:10,14 50:17,19 53:21 54:6,14
49:3,6,8,18,20 separate 41:16 Southern 25:5,7 54:24 56:12,23
4:7 second 23:3,3 45:9 15:15 States 1:1,12,18
38:10 42:4 seriously 46:23 specification 4:5 7:13,17,20
15:14 section 4:12 26:20,23 specified 27:21 16:13 18:6,8
17:15 5:12,18,19 7:8 set 27:8 32:18 36:21 20:16 21:12
8:5,24 16:10 severity 39:17 speculative 22:13 23:2
22:1 27:18 28:2,17 shed 33:10 55:14 27:4,5,8 34:24
27:10,12 29:9,9 30:15 show 9:24 speech 9:6 10:1 37:10 56:11
56:16 32:6 33:5 shows 38:4 Spencer 19:24 57:4,5 58:2,16
60:6 39:21 45:7 significance 20:24 55:11 59:17,23
32:24 send 22:10 simple 8:22 5:1,4,25 6:3,18 28:12 31:2
37:2,8 subsections 6:13 T they'd 25:15 17:22
38:14,20 42:20 t 3:1,1 32:19 thing 26:3 33:13 tolled 19:12
40:8,15 substance 6:19 53:5 34:19 42:18 touchstone
43:13 8:9 9:23,25 take 36:23 43:12 45:17 50:24 44:20
45:8 58:9 52:20 56:1 trafficking 8:9
54:3 Substances 4:13 taken 21:18 29:3 things 41:24 8:14,14,17,19
4:16,17,20,23 talk 14:22 think 7:3 9:7,14 8:21 9:5,5,7,13
5:23 6:20 7:11 talking 7:4 15:25 16:7 10:6,8,13,18
27:21 8:21 9:9,18 21:23 28:24 23:19,25 24:4 16:2 17:6,7,10
40:4 10:10,14,16,22 31:19,19,20 28:18,24 31:15 17:11 36:12,14
59:6 11:5,7 13:2 32:21 41:16 32:9 34:17 37:6 38:3
33:16,18,21 59:8 41:25 42:17 58:6,14
17:5 44:13 50:12,14 telling 41:10 46:5 47:4,12 treated 29:1
38:6 51:9 52:3 59:6 49:22 48:18 53:23 treats 46:23,25
substantial 37:4 tension 14:18,20 54:2,2,15 true 21:22 22:14
substantive 39:6 14:24 45:23 55:10 56:9,10 26:13 28:21
42:5 suggest 9:12 tequila 20:15 58:11,19 40:7 52:25
suggesting 54:1 term 4:14 7:6,22 thinks 20:14 53:3
superfluous 16:4 20:2 thought 12:2 try 8:23 24:1
supervised 18:3 26:17 36:11 33:23 41:10 trying 13:23
19:2,4,7,8 47:18 56:2,3,5 thousand 33:22 Tuesday 1:15
24:2 56:3,4,5 32:6,11 39:17 38:11 41:3 30:5,18 32:24
18:2 supervision 18:7 testified 37:25 34:11 55:4 56:14
18:11 21:9 testify 25:18 56:2 turns 30:13 42:5
21:13 Supervisory Texas 1:24 25:6 times 33:22 55:12
41:21,23 1:23 textual 5:14 TIMOTHY two 4:13 5:10,22
32:15 59:14 27:10,11 56:16 Toledo-Flores 31:3 38:9,12
Supreme 1:1,18 theft 46:4,6,9 17:18,25 19:5 57:16 59:6
50:15 59:3 24:19 26:20
45:7 36:3 20:1 56:10 Uh-huh 11:23
switch 55:3 theory 36:12 Toledo-Flores's ultimately 37:25
55:8,8 9:21,24 16:16 Z 21 8:24 57:16
59:2 33:11 34:8 24 55:24,25
36:16 14:25 15:1 weight 6:17 3 1:15 6:18
42:3 55:11 went 37:24 1 3A 6:9
55:15 view 8:8,13 54:11 1 33:4 46:7 51:1 30 55:25
35:17 40:25 we'll 4:3 17:16 1-year 56:3 3559(c)(2)(H)
59:7 violate 4:24 5:9 31:19,19,20 101(a)(43) 16:5
32:6,10 violated 18:19 59:5 1101 32:6 35:7 43 51:15
58:1,13 26:22 we've 26:16 46:15
59:10,15 violates 6:18 40:14 50:18 1101(a) 51:13
53:3 5 34:1,5 36:20
22:17 35:11 whichever 48:1
28:4 50:8,20
29:18 5A 6:10
15:17 16:6,11Williams 19:24
33:5
3:13
53:19 16:22 19:9,10 20:24
32:20
38:25 43:8 witness 25:14 41:1,18 42:19 6A 6:10
9:23 19:3 17:7 38:19,20 51:18 53:14 7
7:13,17,20 violence 45:4,6words 33:13,22 8:7 27:18
14:15 visa 20:8 24:6,7 38:16 43:13 12 56:11 8
20:16 visit 20:8 work 22:20 26:7 12(a) 32:18 8 8:7 12:23
22:13 vs 14:16 42:6 43:19,20 1326 28:23 801 12:6
27:4,4 works 26:2 30:15 39:21 844 9:1 36:22
56:11 W world 20:20 54:22
waiver 20:6 23:6 write 14:21 16 45:7 9
16:9 20:8 29:20 38:12 X 57:17 924(c) 4:12,19
23:24 53:20 x 1:2,13 57:17 1956 16:10,13 5:12,18 7:18
55:8,8 wanted 7:24 1988 38:24 7:23 8:5,12,18
60:1 26:15 38:8 Y 39:12,20 54:15 9:3,21,23
wants 16:25 year 18:1,20 1990 54:10 28:2,6 29:10
19:17 33:4 29:17,21 30:2
20:24,25 1:14,21 2:2 50:9,20 52:11 20th 19:17,23 47:25 48:17,21
27:3,4 way 8:19 9:5,9 Yup 50:17 2006 1:15 48:24 49:12
57:1,10
34:14
48:7
50:7
57:2
34:21
38:16
49:2
15:11
36:22
