IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
LORENZO L. JONES, :
Petitioner, :
v. : No. 05-7058
BARBARA BOCK, WARDEN, ET AL.; :
and :
TIMOTHY WILLIAMS, :
Petitioner, :
v. : No. 05-7142
WILLIAM S. OVERTON, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, October 30, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United
States at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JEAN-CLAUDE ANDRE, ESQ., Los Angeles, Cal.; on
behalf of the Petitioner.
LINDA M. OLIVIERI, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,
Lansing, Mich; on behalf of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JEAN-CLAUDE ANDRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
LINDA M. OLIVIERI, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JEAN-CLAUDE ANDRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Jones versus Bock, and Williams versus Overton.
Mr. Andre.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEAN-CLAUDE ANDRE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ANDRE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In these three cases, each of the three
petitioners filed administrative grievances with the
Michigan Department of Corrections. The Michigan
Department of Corrections conducted investigations and
issued final decisions on the merits of petitioner's
grievances. Nevertheless, a year and a half later, each
of the petitioner's complaints was thrown out of federal
court without leave to amend because petitioners failed
to satisfy on of the Sixth Circuit's judge-made
corollaries to the PLRA's exhaustion requirement. None
of those three corollaries find any meaningful support
in the Federal Rules of Procedure, in fact they
contradict the federal rules. Nor do they find any
support in administrative law or habeas law, the two
areas of law to which this Court looks for guidance in
interpreting administrative litigation and format.
Finally, the overwhelming majority of the circuits that
have considered these questions have rejected them all.
I'd like to begin with the heightened
pleading rule that the Sixth District applied here. The
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure require a plaintiff to
simply provide a short claim statement of the basis on
which his or her claim will lie. The Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure do enumerate certain kinds of
allegations that a plaintiff must plead with
specificity, those are enumerated in Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure 9(c), but exhaustion is not one of them.
Accordingly --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the district court
finds that in its experience, 80 percent of the claims
are ones that are unexhausted, just assume that. And
the district court said, the only way I can figure out
the good 20 percent from the 80 percent that are going
to ultimately be dismissed is to have a motion for a
more definite, an order for a more definite statement,
because I'll do it sua sponte under 12(e), I think. Can
the district court do that?
MR. GRANT: I think that would be correct,
and that would be consistent with the Court's habeas
jurisprudence.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The court could ask for a
pleading which set forth the facts of exhaustion?
MR. ANDRE: I believe that's true.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then why isn't this --
this is just the same if the court has said, you know,
in order to make our screening function efficient, we
just have to know about exhaustion.
MR. ANDRE: Well, first of all, when
Congress created the various screening provisions in the
PLRA, it noticeably omitted exhaustion. It clearly had
exhaustion in mind when it enacted the PLRA. The term
"exhaustion" appears in 42 U.S.C. 1997 --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How about, what, if you
concede the district court could do it in individual
cases or in most cases, why can't the Sixth Circuit do
it? That's my question.
MR. ANDRE: Well, what sets the Sixth
Circuit's rule apart from I think the hypothetical you
propose, and also from this Court's habeas jurisprudence
is that in both of those scenarios the plaintiff, the
prisoner, is given a chance to respond. In the Sixth
Circuit, if they don't they don't satisfy the heightened
pleading rule at the minute that they file their initial
complaint, they are out. There is no leave to amend,
and that's what happened in this case.
In Petitioner Jones' case, he filed the
complaint and he actually did allege that he exhausted
his administrative remedies. He said: I exhausted my
administrative remedies, I filed my step one grievance
on this date, I received a denial on that date, and he
went down the list through all three steps.
JUSTICE ALITO: The briefs point out that a
number of district courts have form complaints that are
often used in these cases and that these forms call on
the prisoner-plaintiff to address the issue of
exhaustion. Now, do you think there's something wrong
with those forms, and if a prisoner fills out the form
and reveals in filling it out that a claim was not
exhausted, is it improper for the district court at the
screening stage to dismiss the case?
MR. ANDRE: With respect to the form, I
don't think that the form is improper, but I think it
would be improper for a court to dismiss the prisoner's
case if the prisoner failed to fill out the section of
the form that asks him about exhaustion because
exhaustion is an affirmative defense in both
administrative law and habeas, and there's no indication
in this statute that Congress --
JUSTICE ALITO: If it's an affirmative
defense, then why is it -- why is it proper for a
district court, for a district court, to have a form
that calls on the plaintiff to negate the affirmative
defense?
MR. ANDRE: I think the district court can
ask the plaintiff pretty much whatever the district
court likes. But whether the district court could,
could dismiss a case for failure to comply, failure to
respond to that question, that's another matter.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we know under
the statue they can dismiss a case because it's
frivolous, right?
MR. ANDRE: Absolutely.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Regardless of the
substance of the claim on the merits, if you know that
you've just ignored the exhaustion requirement isn't
that a frivolous claim?
MR. ANDRE: We would certainly concede that
if it is clear on the face of the complaint that a
prisoner has not exhausted his or her administrative
remedies then that claim can be dismissed. I guess the
way it would operate -- and I haven't seen a case like
this -- but it would be where a prisoner says, I didn't
exhaust my administrative remedies and I have no excuse
for failing to do so, but please, district court, please
take mercy on me. And in that situation the district
court could say, there's absolutely no way you can
possibly prevail on the merits, so your claim --
JUSTICE BREYER: Probably the reason they do
this is that there are lots and lots of claims by
prisoners in Federal courts that are hard to decipher.
They don't know what it's about. They don't want to put
the defendant to the burden of coming in in every single
complaint when it's quite a good probability it's about
nothing. That's the kind of reasoning that would lead
to a rule like this. So -- and then you have the
statute and the statute says indeed there's a special
power here to dismiss if it's frivolous or it doesn't
state a claim or malicious.
So why isn't this just an exercise of the
Sixth Circuit's or a court's ordinary subsidiary
rulemaking powers? They're trying to figure out how to
manage their docket.
MR. ANDRE: The problem is that it conflicts
with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure Rule 8. And as
this Court this repeatedly said, including as recently
as last term in Hill v. McDonough, the Court will not
impose a heightened pleading requirement absent an
amendment to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
JUSTICE BREYER: So your point would be that
they can do this if we amend the Federal Rules. If it's
a problem take it to the Rules Committee?
MR. ANDRE: I think that's correct. I think
that's correct, but if it --
JUSTICE SOUTER: If we amended the rules
that way, in effect it would no longer be an affirmative
defense. I mean, by definition an affirmative defense
gets raised by the defendant and so on, so if we amended
the Federal Rules in practical terms it would be like
adding an element to the claim.
MR. ANDRE: Right. Or if the Court were to
add PLRA exhaustion to the Rule 9(c).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But Rule 8 and the
normal rules weren't addressed to the unusual situation
under the PLRA where the district court has an
affirmative obligation screen on its own before the
defendant even gets involved. So if in fact, just to
follow on Justice Kennedy's hypothetical, 80 percent of
the cases have this exhaustion problem, why isn't this a
reasonable means of facilitating the screening
obligation?
MR. ANDRE: It may be a reasonable means,
but that doesn't necessarily mean that it's permissible,
because Congress had exhaustion in mind when it enacted
the PLRA and noticeably absent from all the PLRA
screening provisions is the term "exhaustion."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you just
told me earlier that if it was a case in which
exhaustion is required and not done that would be a
frivolous claim, and the statute does refer to frivolous
claims. So the district court or the Sixth Circuit has
just said, we know that in a large number of cases they
are going to be frivolous because they have ignored the
exhaustion requirement, and we just want to try to find
out which those cases are to fulfill the screening
obligation, which takes this out of the normal Rule 8
type of case.
MR. ANDRE: Right, I think I understand. I
think it goes back still to the fact that there's not a
clear Congressional expression to take these cases out
of the Federal Rules. In Califano v. Yamasaki we
believe is instructive on that point. In in that case
the Secretary of the Department of Health Education and
Welfare had argued that Section 205(g) of the Social
Security Act, which used the term "individual," somehow
took those, those judicial review procedures, out of the
operation of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23. This
Court said: No, we cannot read the word "individual" as
such a clear expression. It may have been Congress's
policy to have individual claims be addressed one by
one, but you have to find that clear expression in the
statute and that clear expression is not here.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what about 1997(e) and
(g), which prohibits, seems to prohibit a case from
getting beyond the complaint, not even to the answer
unless the district court finds that the plaintiff has a
reasonable opportunity to prevail on the merits.
Doesn't this clearly take this out of the normal
pleading procedures?
MR. ANDRE: I don't think so, Justice Alito.
We have exhaustively researched that language, the
reasonable opportunity to prevail on the merits 1997(g),
and the only courts that construe that language are
courts construing 1997(e) and (g), and they have
universally found that that provision simply summarizes
the other screening provisions' terms, so, frivolous,
malicious, fails to state a claim, or seeks -- from an
immune defendant. And we can't really think of what,
what else Congress would have had in mind because while
it's like the preliminary injunction standard it makes
no sense that Congress wanted a prisoner to satisfy a
preliminary injunction standard before requiring prison
officials to respond.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Would your answer be
different if amendment were allowed? I mean isn't the
problem in substance here, and I don't mean to dismiss
your arguments from the rules, but leaving the argument
from the text of the rules aside, it wouldn't be a real
problem here in substance if the circuit bar allowed
amendment, would it?
MR. ANDRE: I think if the circuit were to,
Sixth Circuit were to allow amendment it would certainly
mitigate the situation. It's our position that the
screening provisions can't overrule Federal Rule of
Procedure 15 either, but the problem we see with even
doing away with the no amendment rule, but keeping in
place the heightened pleading rule, is that we are
talking about prisoners. Prisoners who don't have a lot
of access to materials. They may have -- legal
materials. They may have great difficulty holding on to
their, their formally filed grievances.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Andre, didn't you
have in one of that's cases that the exhaustion was
spelled out by the defendant, there was a complaint that
alleged exhaustion, generally but not in all detail.
Then the answer attached every piece of paper that came
up at all three levels of the grievance procedure, and
then the plaintiff said oh, that's a good idea, I'm
going to copy all those documents and make them my own.
And nonetheless, that case was dismissed for failure to
allege exhaustion in sufficient detail although the
record made it plain that there had been exhaustion.
The rule that you are opposing would operate that way.
If you don't allege exhaustion in detail, it doesn't
matter that the deficiency has been made up by the
answer. You go out. Wasn't that the decision in one of
these cases?
MR. GRANT: Yes. That was in Petitioner
Jones's case, and that -- Petitioner Jones's case is a
great example of how the heightened pleading rule and
the no amendment rule work together to result in a
prisoner being unable to cure any problem with his or
her initial complaint.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You talk about the
lack of statutory direction on the first two points but
there is a very explicit statute on the third question.
It says no action shall be brought until administrative
remedies are exhausted. And yet you say the action
should be allowed to be brought even if there are
unexhausted claims in the complaint.
MR. ANDRE: Well, I -- we concede that an
action that contains unexhausted claims or a mixed
action shouldn't have been brought in the first place,
but it's there. And the question then becomes what to
do about it. And the language no action shall be
brought; it's very common in administrative exhaustion
schemes, the Americans with Disabilities Act uses almost
identical language, the Immigration Nationality Act uses
very similar language, Title VII --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is a very
different statutory scheme. This is designed to address
the problem of an overwhelming number of frivolous
complaints that result in the fact that meritorious
complaints can be overlooked. We've got a haystack in a
needle problem here. And if you allow the action to
continue, that doesn't do anything to reduce the number
of filing of claims that as you say should not have been
brought.
MR. ANDRE: I guess I should be clear at the
outset that we are by no means advocating that a
prisoner can shoe horn in unexhausted claims with
exhausted claims. So the unexhausted claims must go.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well right, but you
provide under your approach no incentive for the
prisoner to leave those claims out. Instead what, a
screening function turns into an editing function. The
district court is supposed to just excise out the
unexhausted ones but allow the exhausted ones to
continue.
MR. ANDRE: Well, it's been our experience
and from reading the case law it appears that prisoners
don't intentionally try to shoe horn in unexhausted
claims with their exhausted claims. It's typically
based on innocent mistake, a simple failure to
understand either the particular circuit within which
they are housed, a difficulty in understanding that
circuit's exhaustion law, difficulty in understanding
the prison grievance procedures that they attempted to
comply with, and perhaps even being further confused by
the fact that prison grievance administrators seem to
apply prison grievance regulations, I don't want to say
in an ad hoc manner, but inconsistently. And so when
they bring these complaints that are mixed they actually
are intending to bring a fully exhausted complaint but
then after a little built of judicial review, it becomes
clear that they didn't exhaust.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why does it hurt if you
dismiss the whole thing? They could just refile.
MR. ANDRE: Well, it hurts for a couple of
reasons. Well -- and -- it hurts under the Sixth
Circuit's rule because they did not allow prisoners to
amend. So --
JUSTICE BREYER: No. No. What would happen
is you just dismiss the complaint.
So -- I guess again the reason they have
these things is they get a certain number of complaints,
they have no idea what it sys, to tell you the truth,
they don't know what the claim is, they don't understand
it, there are a lot of things written here; the person
wasn't represented; it's hard to make out. And for, the
judge thinks I have to go through all these papers; I
have to figure out if there is something here that was
exhausted, we know something happened; it was something
exhausted -- so the simplest thing is just dismiss it.
Now the prisoner can always refile it with
the parts that he has to now figure out were exhausted.
Now is -- and it doesn't hurt because, just refile it.
MR. ANDRE: It doesn't hurt if the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that true? Or what
happens?
MR. ANDRE: Well, I guess there is two
different versions of the total exhaustion rule as it's
termed. There is the Eighth Circuit's rule with is with
leave to amend. So the complaint is dismissed, and
prisoner can file a new complaint without the
unexhausted claims.
Then there is the Sixth Circuit's rule,
which is the most draconian of all the versions. And
that says the entire action is dismissed, prisoner must
institute a new action.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Why is that draconian?
MR. ANDRE: It's draconian because by the
time the prisoner refiles his or her action there could
be a statute of limitations problem. The prisoner may
not be able to bring those claims any more. In fact the
Fifth Circuit in --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Does he have to file a new
filing fee?
MR. ANDRE: Not in the Sixth Circuit
anymore, and not in the Fourth Circuit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How many prisoners
pay the filing fee in the first place?
MR. ANDRE: I believe they all do. If they
qualify --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They are not
entitled to IFP status?
MR. ANDRE: If they get IFP status, all that
means -- well, first of all, they only get to do that
three times. Or to have three actions dismissed before
they lose their IP status.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that a draconian
rule, do you think? You have to have three actions
dismissed before you have to pay the filing fee?
MR. ANDRE: No, no, no. I mean -- but
that's not really at issue in this case. But even if
they qualify for IFP status they still have to pay the
$350 filing fee. It's just taken out in installments.
And so for a prisoner who makes $2.50 a day or $2.50 a
week it -- it is costly for them to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I guess this is
probably not a question for you, but a question for your
friend on the other side. You can ask, why does it
hurt? You can also ask why does it help? What good
does it do to bounce the whole thing back when you're
just going to have them filed again?
MR. ANDRE: I think that's exactly right,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, well, the reason it
would hurt is because it's difficult for the judge to go
though this complaint that he can't quite make sense out
of. And it puts the burden of the prisoner to go
through and figure out what he really wants to say.
That's why -- that's why it's easier for the judge just
to dismiss it than to go through many, what could be
many pages with a fine-toothed comb trying to figure out
if there is anything here that was exhausted.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the other
incentive is if you adopt your rule, the incentive on
the prisoner is to put in every possible claim, even if
it is not exhausted because maybe it will get through,
maybe it won't. And if it doesn't get through, no harm.
He doesn't even have to pay another $50.
MR. ANDRE: But I think at least, at least
under that scenario, the district court still only has
to take one look at the case and then it can move
forward, it deletes the unexhausted claims. So from a
judicial efficiency standpoint I think the Ortiz V.
McBride rule out of the Second Circuit, which is the
rule that we are advocating, is -- is the cleanest
approach. It takes the choice away from the prisoner;
it puts the choice with the district court, and it
allows the district court to delete off any unexhausted
claims. And in most instances --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there any argument that
if the state does not insist on exhaustion or plead
exhaustion, that it just drops out of the case? If the
state resolves the case on the merits even though there
is no exhaustion, can the Federal court hear it, that
there is general agreement about that?
MR. ANDRE: I think there is. The circuit
-- the four circuits that we know were unanimous that
PLRA exhaustion is not jurisdictional, and in Woodford
we know this Court confirmed that. And so to the extent
that the PLRA exhaustion is an affirmative defense, then
it would operate like other exhaustion schemes in
administrative -- administrative law, and habeas, where
it is waivable by the other side.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If -- if we accept your
first two arguments, then if there is no heightened
pleading rule and you don't have to name the specific
defendants in the administrative grievance that you end
up naming in the complaint, if you prevail on both of
those, then isn't the third question, have you, what
happens when you haven't properly exhausted, is really
not alive anymore in this case, because you will have
properly exhausted. So why should the Court go on to
answer what would happen if you hadn't properly
exhausted?
MR. GRANT: Respectfully, Justice Ginsburg,
it's unfortunately more complicated than that. If the
first question in the Jones case, the ID pleading rule
question, is resolved in favor of Petitioner Jones, then
total exhaustion is a live issue. Because the Sixth
Circuit as an alternative holding justified the
dismissal of Jones's complaint on the total exhaustion
ground. And I guess on the other side if the Court were
to resolve the identifying the defendant's issue against
Petitioner --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the Sixth Circuit
obviously would have been wrong; if he has totally
exhausted; they have, gave that as a no alternative
grounds, but if they are wrong on the first one and he
has exhausted. That's the end of it.
MR. GRANT: The Sixth Circuit -- and it's
not really clear from this opinion, because it's an
unpublished opinion, but the Sixth Circuit appears to
have adopted the magistrate judge's finding which is
based on respondent's motion to dismiss that Jones
substantively, for lack of a better word, didn't exhaust
all of his claims, so -- I'm sorry. I'm not being
clear.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was the case where
the, where the defendant estate, wasn't that the case
where they put in all the papers from the administrative
record?
MR. ANDRE: Yes. But they also argued that
Jones failed to exhaust his administrative remedies on
everything but his First Amendment retaliation claim.
Or what they termed his negative work --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but they were wrong
about that. If, if there was exhaustion in the case,
and if there is no rule that you must name everything
the defendant that you end up suing, if those two are
established, again wouldn't we be dealing with a moot
question? Moot in this case?
MR. ANDRE: I don't think so, Justice
Ginsburg. I think in order for the total exhaustion
issue to be moot, the heightened pleading requirement
would have to be resolved against Petitioner Jones, and
the naming the defendants issue would have to be
resolved in favor of Williams and Walton. I charted out
on a matrix and verified it a couple of times.
Turning to the naming issue if I could,
since we haven't addressed that, the Prison Litigation
Reform Act simply sets a floor of how much specificity a
prisoner must provide in his or her grievance. It does
not require what the Sixth Circuit held here which is
that as a matter of Federal statutory law a prisoner
must have identified every individual who he or she
later sues in Federal court. This is a kind of endemic,
or flows logically from the Court's decision in Woodford
V. Ngo. Woodford v. Ngo says that prisoners must comply
with grievance procedures.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You would have no problem,
I assume, if the state simply requires that you name the
individuals?
MR. ANDRE: I guess broadly speaking no; in
certain cases yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: To the extent possible, I
suppose.
MR. ANDRE: Right. Exactly. If -- in
Michigan they have a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Then, then there would not
be exhaustion unless he had named the individuals.
MR. ANDRE: I believe that's correct. I
mean, although I guess --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So we may not be, may not
be litigating about a whole lot here.
MR. ANDRE: No, right. I think really the
question is an X or not X question. It's does the PLRA
as a matter of statutory law required individuals to be
named in the underlying grievances, and the PLRA is
entirely silent on that question, and this Court's
decision in Sims v. Apfel lends further lends further
support to the proposition that a Federal court cannot
go beyond what the particular administrative agency's
rules require. I realize that was a plurality decision
but I think the petitioners win under either the
plurality opinion or under Justice O'Connor's
concurrence. And so yes, Justice Scalia we agree with
you that it's simply an X or Y question that down the
road perhaps the Court could address the scenario where
a prison system amends its rules to require individual
defendants to be named and then perhaps a prisoner can't
comply with that based on the short previous filing
deadlines, and then there is a question of whether the
administrative remedies were actually ever available to
that particular prisoner.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you have in one of
these cases, the person has said: I didn't know who was
the person who said I couldn't have the operation until
the prison identified him.
MR. ANDRE: That's correct. I believe
you're referring to either the Williams or the Walker --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. So even if you had
a rule, a reasonable rule, that named the people that
you know, if you have it, that would not encompass
someone? In two of these cases, the defendants -- the
plaintiff, the prisoner, said, I didn't know who those
guys were until they were identified.
MR. ANDRE: Right. And to that extent the
prison grievance system worked, because the prisoners
provided as much detail as they possibly could and then
the prison grievance system went out, conducted its
investigation, broadened the universe of relevant facts,
and then made a determination. They happened to
determine that grievances were not meritorious.
Obviously, petitioners disagree with that assessment.
That's why they sued in Federal court.
But the prison grievance system worked. To
borrow from the Third Circuit's decision in Spur v.
Gillis, a cooperative ethos between inmate and jailer
was achieved, because so long as the prisoner provides
sufficient information for the grievance system to go
out and answer any unresolved questions and so long as
the prison grievance system avails itself of that
opportunity then the claim is exhausted.
If there are no further questions, I'd like
to save the rest of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Andre.
Ms. Olivieri.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LINDA M. OLIVIERI
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS
MS. OLIVIERI: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
Congress enacted the Prison Litigation
Reform Act to deal with the flood of prisoner litigation
that was coming into the Federal courts, obscuring the
treatment for meritorious claims brought by all
litigants. The purpose of the act was to unburden the
courts from dealing with this flood of litigation that
largely was without merit. The purposes for the act
were to increase the quality of the litigation, decrease
the quantity of the litigation, allow the states to
address first the issues that the prisoners have
problems with and to develop an administrative record to
facilitate judicial screening. And all of this would
result in increased judicial resources for all
litigation that has potential merit.
The invigorated exhaustion requirement does
require total exhaustion. The statute, the words of the
statute itself confirm this. The statute states: "No
action shall be brought until" --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you, what is a
typical administrative record that is developed in these
proceedings? There's never a transcript, is there?
MS. OLIVIERI: I've never seen a transcript.
Typically it's one sheet of paper. The inmate states
what the problem is, states what he did to try to
resolve the problem before filing a grievance. And then
there's space at the bottom for response. Frequently
the response is right on that page. Sometimes the
response indicates "See attached." If there's a
lengthier response there may be a separate page.
Similarly, if the prisoner can't put all of
his --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is there normally a
statement of reasons for the denial of relief or are
they just denied in many cases?
MS. OLIVIERI: For the most part they
attempt to address the issue.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Are the opinions a page or
two or just a sentence or two? What is typical?
MS. OLIVIERI: Typically they are --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm just wondering how,
how much help that will give the judge later on in
processing the case.
MS. OLIVIERI: In the last 12 months there
have been 13,000 grievances processed by the Michigan
Department of Corrections at the third step, and that's
for people who appeal all the way through to the third
step. So there are many more than that before that.
Some of the responses can be very detailed. They can go
on for a full page typewritten single spaced. Some of
the responses --
JUSTICE STEVENS: How many of the 13,000 are
of that variety?
MS. OLIVIERI: I haven't read all 13,000,
but typically the response would be about a half a dozen
lines.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I see. And the other
question: Of the 13,000 grievances, how many did result
in litigation?
MS. OLIVIERI: Last -- in the last year that
ended June 30th, 12 months, we had approximately 200
cases.
JUSTICE STEVENS: 200 out of 13,000?
MS. OLIVIERI: Correct. In the previous
years we had somewhat fewer, so it's sort of going up.
But you know, it's between 160, 180, 200. This year
we're on that same pace, approximately 200.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Can you explain what the
disincentive or other reasons for there being just 200
lawsuits out of the 13,000?
MS. OLIVIERI: These 200 are ones that we
were served with. That doesn't include the ones that
may have been screened out by the courts and we were
never served with them.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I see.
MS. OLIVIERI: This only includes ones where
a defendant was actually served with process.
JUSTICE BREYER: Basically, I mean you've
heard the question and so forth. It seems to me that my
questions and certainly others were based on certain
empirical premises that might be true, might not be
true. So why isn't this a question for the Rules
Committee? Why not go to the Rules Committee if this
really is a burden and so forth, rather than doing
something unusual, which is to make exhaustion something
other than an affirmative defense, to dismiss the whole
complaint, which appear to be rules that reached
draconian results in a few cases anyway.
MS. OLIVIERI: When it's a dismissal without
prejudice, it's improper to characterize it as
draconian.
JUSTICE BREYER: It could be, because the
statute of limitations could have run. So it depends.
Sometimes it is, sometimes it isn't. But my basic
question here, isn't this a matter for the Rules
Committees rather than for the Sixth Circuit to go off
on its own?
MS. OLIVIERI: This Court in Neitzke versus
Williams took a look at the previous version of the in
forma pauperis statute and that statute allowed sua
sponte dismissals for only two reasons, frivolous and
malicious cases. Under that, in that opinion, the Court
indicated that when it's a sua sponte review for those
two issues you don't get the benefit of the adversary
process that's embodied in the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure. Congress, recognizing that even in Neitzke
the Court indicated that the Federal courts were being
flooded with prison litigation, much of it meritless,
expanded the categories that are now subject to sua
sponte dismissal, and those include suing someone who is
immune from liability or failing to state a claim.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that doesn't include
failure to exhaust.
MS. OLIVIERI: It didn't specifically
include failure to exhaust.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And if you follow the
normal rule, that that's an affirmative defense, then,
then the burden would be on the prison to do just what
it did in the Jones case. Why, why would we say, depart
from the normal rule that makes exhaustion an
affirmative defense when we know that the party best
equipped to provide the information about exhaustion is
the prison, as the Jones case showed so well? They, the
prison, had all of the grievances. They had all of the
responses and they presented that to the court. So the
prisoner is less well equipped to attach those papers
than the prison is, so why isn't it not only traditional
to have exhaustion as an affirmative defense, but makes
the most sense because the one most likely to have the
information is the prison?
MS. OLIVIERI: Congress dealt with that in
1997e(g), the waiver of reply provision, which confirmed
what the 1997e(c) dismissal provision provides. This is
all a screening situation for the Federal district
courts, designed to move these cases that have been
proven largely meritless quickly through the system
rather than bogging the courts down --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If Congress meant to
reverse the ordinary burden on pleading exhaustion, why
didn't it put that in? It was expanding the categories
and it included failure to state a claim, which had not
been there before, and it included if you sue somebody
who has got immunity. But it didn't include exhaustion,
so why should we read that in?
MS. OLIVIERI: Well, exhaustion is the very
first provision and it's --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not in the
screening. It doesn't say you screen out for failure to
exhaust.
MS. OLIVIERI: It's not specifically there,
but the exhaustion provision is a precursor. It's a
precondition. You can't even get into court until
you've exhausted because it says no action shall be
brought.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there are other
provisions than "no action shall be brought." Take a
statute of limitations that reads "No action shall be
brought after two years" or something like that. There
is no action shall be brought. Does that make it no
longer an affirmative defense?
MS. OLIVIERI: The courts have interpreted
statutes of limitations consistently to be in the
category of an affirmative defense. The problem with
that is this statute, the PLRA, is the new regime for
prison litigation, not for all the litigation across the
board. And in the waiver of reply, the Congress
specifically took the defendant out of the equation,
requiring the court to determine whether or not the case
has been exhausted, whether or not the plaintiff has
failed to state a claim and the other criteria that are
all in that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, all the criteria
are there, but failure to exhaust is not.
MS. OLIVIERI: Not specifically, but failure
to exhaust could be construed as a --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But last time -- and you
said before the statute was there were only frivolous
and malicious. And the court says, we can see from the
face of this complaint that it fails to state a claim,
too bad it's not a ground for automatic dismissal. So
Congress said, yes, it should be, and put that one in.
MS. OLIVIERI: Congress put the screening
provision as number one, where you cannot even bring a
case to court unless you have exhausted administrative
remedies. So it's unimaginable that that would not be a
ground for sua sponte dismissal when you can't even
bring your case until you've exhausted.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Miss Olivieri, you also
rely on the "no action shall be brought" language to
justify dismissal of the entire action, all claims, even
though only some of them have not been exhausted. Do
you have any, even a single example of the many other
instances where that language is used in the Federal
statutes? And there are many of them. Do you know any
other case where it's been interpreted that way, so that
claims that are perfectly valid will not be retained,
but rather the whole action will be dismissed?
MS. OLIVIERI: Habeas corpus is another
situation where there is a provision that says no relief
shall be granted, no writ shall be granted, absent
exhaustion of -- exhaustion of state court remedies.
There in the habeas situation, it is a little bit
different than in the PLRA -- pardon me -- because there
is a stay in abeyance provision in habeas --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MS. OLIVIERI: -- which was in the statute
before Congress passed the PLRA, and Congress actually
took out the stay in abeyance provision.
It all serves the purpose that Congress
intended, which was to allow the courts to quickly
screen these cases. If you look at e(a)(C)(1) --
(C)(2), they give the court many options for doing what
is most judicially prudent in that particular case to
preserve resources.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is the basis in the
habeas context for dismissing the entire habeas
application despite the fact that some of the claims
have been exhausted? Is there any statutory basis for
that or is it just, just judicial efficiency?
MS. OLIVIERI: There is -- I believe it's
under the exhaustion requirement. The court has the
option of dismissing the entire action -- actually, I
believe there the petitioner gets the option, do they
want to proceed on the exhausted claims or do they want
to drop out the unexhausted claims.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's not -- the
statute doesn't settle that. Our decisions settle that,
right? So why should we deal with that, the two, any
differently? It's not as though Congress wrote the
statute differently. We said you can't proceed with
unexhausted claims, so you have a choice. Either you go
out of the Federal court and exhaust everything -- or
even you don't have to go out; you could use the stay in
abeyance -- or you just lob off the unexhausted claims,
stay in the Federal court on the ones that you have
exhausted.
That's all made up by this Court. So why
should the Court react differently in the PLRA than it
did? Why should it fill those gaps differently than it
did in habeas?
MS. OLIVIERI: I think because Congress did
revoke the stay in abeyance provision in the PLRA.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But your answer was it
shouldn't, I think. I think she's making your argument
for you.
MS. OLIVIERI: Pardon me?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think she is saying that
we should treat this area the same way we treat habeas,
so that the whole case should be dismissed rather than
just the individual claims, which is what I think you
want; isn't it?
MS. OLIVIERI: Yes, that is my argument,
yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Well, don't fight
it.
MS. OLIVIERI: Okay. I was suggesting that
in habeas it is the prisoner's option to say --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I was suggesting that in
habeas it is the prisoner's option to say I don't want
the whole case dismissed. I will amend my petition so
that the court will have, will retain the exhausted
claims. You are saying not like habeas, I don't want it
to be like habeas, because if it were like habeas, the
prisoner would have the option to stay in the federal
court as long as he lopped off the unexhausted claims.
You don't want it. You don't want it to be like habeas?
MS. OLIVIERI: I don't want the prisoner to
be allowed to choose to lop off the unexhausted claims,
that is true, or to amend, to delete them, because then
there is absolutely no incentive for the prisoner to
improve the quality of the litigation by stopping and
thinking, being careful to exhaust all his claims, and
being careful to plead only claims that are exhaustive.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The same arguments apply in
habeas, don't they?
MS. OLIVIERI: But in habeas you have the
stay and abeyance provision that was specifically
removed --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not if you had your way.
MS. OLIVIERI: Remove -- well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think you're making an
argument that it would preclude that too.
MS. OLIVIERI: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it seems to me that if
we accept your response to Justice Ginsburg, we've got
to go back and to the extent that we can do anything
about it, we'd better toughen up habeas so that these
things get thrown out more readily.
MS. OLIVIERI: Habeas does deal with a
person's liberty whereas the PLRA is simply dealing with
people basically for the most part trying to get some
sort of relief, either injunctive or monetary relief,
that does not deal with their basic freedom. So in that
respect --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One reason to
require total exhaustion is because, I would assume the
prisoner may get sufficient relief if the claims are
exhausted, that he doesn't feel the need to go forward
with litigation. But I guess that's only true if the
exhausted claims are still alive, and how many, when
we're talking about unexhausted claims, are those
typically claims that are not going to be available or
are they claims that may generate relief once there is
exhaustion?
MS. OLIVIERI: It could be -- I mean, it's
obviously both. I mean, there are claims that are
partially exhausted when the inmate files the lawsuit.
He may finish exhausting and get the relief that he's
looking for without ever pursuing the case in federal
court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And then sometimes it's
impossible to complete the exhaustion. I assume in some
cases that the time limit for the last appeal will have
expired, right?
MS. OLIVIERI: That can also be the case,
and under Woodford versus Ngo, now that they have to do
proper exhaustion, there will be more of those cases
where it probably, there wouldn't be anything left to do
after it's dismissed except for the plaintiff to be the
one to go through the maybe 20 claimed complaints and
call out the claims that are not exhausted, rather than
putting that burden on the court, which is contrary to
Congress's purpose, to streamline this system.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you about,
there's another question you haven't really touched on
yet, the requirement that the prisoner name every
defendant that he intends to sue in the exhausting, in
the internal procedure. I'd just like a little help on
just exactly what happens. The prisoner doesn't get the
kind of medical care he thinks he's entitled to, and he
only knows it because either the low level person says
no, the doctors said you can't have it. And he brings a
proceeding, an informal administrative proceeding, and
they deny relief. And then later on when he wants to
sue, his lawyer happens to find out the name of the
doctor who was involved, and there are several levels of
authority making the decision. Does he have to start
all over again to name those people, or what does he do?
MS. OLIVIERI: Medical care is -- well, for
one thing, prisoners do have counselors, and so if
they're not sure who is responsible for something,
that's one of the things that they're supposed to do is
talk to their counselor to find out. You know, I'm
having this problem, I'm not getting surgery, why am I
not getting surgery, who do I talk to, who do I complain
to. So that's one way to resolve the problem.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And what if he does talk
to the prison guard and the guard says I don't know, I
don't know who's responsible for that decision, that's
in the warden's office, or something like that. What
is the prisoner supposed to do?
MS. OLIVIERI: If the prisoner makes inquiry
and just simply can't find out who it is, then he should
state that in his grievance and indicate that somebody
in the medical department is denying me the surgery.
You know, I talked to Dr. So and So, he's recommended
that I get it, somebody is saying no, I haven't been
able to find out who that is. And likely during the
grievance process, he will find out who it is, because
one of the responses will probably say that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: What if he doesn't? One
of his grievances is nobody told me. Is he out of luck
there? And I think there may well be situations in
which prisoners don't have complete access to all the
facts that go into a decision denying them medical care,
for example, or say a prisoner has a religious problem
and can't get the diet he wants, or something like that.
But before he can sue, under your view if I understand
it, he has to find out so he can name the people in his
administrative complaint.
MS. OLIVIERI: He has to make a good faith
attempt to find out. And if he really, you know, if he
says I've asked my counselor, he is not able to provide
me with that information, then he will get a response on
the grievance.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What is the purpose of
that requirement? As long as he has made known in the
administrative proceeding what his problem it, and they
have had a chance to investigate it and determine
whether it has merit or not, why should he have to name
the individuals who made the decision in order, before
he can sue them when he later finds out who they are?
MS. OLIVIERI: That goes back to 1997e(g),
the waiver of reply, where it says that no defendant can
be made to respond to the complaint unless the court can
certify that the prisoner has a reasonable opportunity
to prevail on the merits. It talks about defendants
there. Also, you get a case like Mr. --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, no, it's standard
law of agency. It doesn't make any difference. The
prisoner is denied his rights. As Justice Stevens said,
there may be three or four different people who
concurred. Do your rules say that if he can't find out
with reasonable efforts that he doesn't need to, or does
the Sixth Circuit rules say that the delegation of the
names is not required?
MS. OLIVIERI: The Sixth Circuit rule
basically says name or identify. And for instance, here
with respect to Mr. Jones, he didn't name the
classification director. He used the title. Nobody had
anything negative to say about that. We know you're
talking about the classification director. It's
Mr. Morrison. We've only got one, not a problem. The
Sixth Circuit rule is basically name or identify, so if
you're going to identify --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why is it that the Sixth
Circuit rule requires the identification, for complete
exhaustion requires the identification to be made at the
first stage?
MS. OLIVIERI: The Sixth Circuit rule does
require that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So to make sure I
understand this, in a case, let's say at stage one he
names Dr. X. And for whatever reason in the course of
the response perhaps, he learned that not only was Dr. X
involved but Dr. Y was involved in that decision. So if
he is denied relief at stage two, he says X and Y, and
he identifies X and why all the way through. He gets
nothing satisfactory to him, so he goes in to Federal
court. Is it correct that under the Sixth Circuit rule
they would say you have not completely exhausted because
at stage one you did not mention Y? Is that correct?
MS. OLIVIERI: The Sixth Circuit probably
would say that that he would be out of luck with respect
to Y.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What justification is there
for that? I mean, for two stages through the prison
administrative process, Y has been identified. The
prison has taken action on the merits on the assumption
that Y is in fact at least an allegedly responsible
party. What reason is there in a Federal court to say
that the exhaustion is incomplete because he didn't
mention Y back at stage one?
MS. OLIVIERI: The Sixth Circuit adopted
that rule probably in a case like the Walton case here,
where Mr. Walton had a problem with his slot restriction
and said, you know, Deputy Warden Bobo put this
restriction on me. It goes through the grievance
process and they say Bobo didn't put that on you, Gearin
put it on you. That's at step one. They give that
response. He goes then into court after exhausting two
or three steps, still saying, you know, they're
discriminating against me based on race with the slot
restrictions.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yeah, but that wasn't my
hypo. As I understand it, in that case he keeps going
after Bobo, period. And in my case at stage two, having
learned something, he identifies Y. And I -- so I don't
see the justification, what is the justification?
MS. OLIVIERI: I think I was probably giving
too much explanation, but I think from my understanding
of how this should operate, he is all right in that case
to sue Mr. Gearin, who actually did put the slot
restriction on him, and he had the wrong name at step
one. No problem. We got the right name at step two or,
excuse me, at the end of step one. And he pursues it?
I think he's got a good claim against Mr. Gearin. The
Sixth Circuit may not think that's true.
JUSTICE SOUTER: In my case, you said you
understood that the Sixth Circuit would say that
although he identified X and Y in stage two and at stage
three, and there had been merit for adjudication at
those stages, understanding who the named respondents
were, the Sixth Circuit would nonetheless say you had
failed to exhaust because back at stage A you mentioned
X but not Y. What is the justification, if that is
still your answer, what could the justification for that
be?
MS. OLIVIERI: I don't think the Sixth
Circuit had that type of case in front of them when they
issued --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that apparently, if I
understand your answer, is what the result would be.
And is there -- and I don't want to, you know, make it
hard for you. I think you're having a hard time finding
a justification for that result and I certainly can't
find one. Can you think of any?
MS. OLIVIERI: I'm saying there is none.
I'm saying he's got a good claim against Mr. Gearin.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, how about Y in my
example?
MS. OLIVIERI: Pardon me?
JUSTICE SOUTER: Does he have a good claim
against Y?
MS. OLIVIERI: Y?
JUSTICE SOUTER: In the Federal court in my
hypo --
MS. OLIVIERI: Okay. He named X, and now -
JUSTICE BREYER: I think Y is Mr. Gearin.
MS. OLIVIERI: Y is Mr. Gearin, yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MS. OLIVIERI: So he's got a claim against
Y.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Even though the Sixth
Circuit would throw it out for failure to exhaust.
MS. OLIVIERI: I disagree with the Sixth
Circuit on that, but I don't disagree with the Sixth
Circuit in that when he actually got to court, he sued
four other people who were never mentioned in any
grievance by anybody.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about Jones, who
really did not know who was the doctor who said no
surgery? He didn't know and then the prison told him.
And he comes to the court, he says thanks, prison, for
telling me, and so he names that person in his
complaint. The Sixth Circuit said that's no good, he
didn't put it in his initial complaint. He had only 15
days to find out and he didn't find out.
MS. OLIVIERI: I'm agreeing with you that
the Sixth Circuit, both that the Sixth Circuit would say
that that won't fly, and that in fact it should fly.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So Jones did properly
exhaust, then, if you just made that confession, then
Jones properly exhausted?
MS. OLIVIERI: Jones properly exhausted
against the doctor who actually denied the medical
treatment, denied the surgery. Yes. But Jones never
served, unfortunately, that particular doctor,
Dr. Cranstall.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you've
mentioned in your brief that there has been a change in
the Michigan grievance policy with respect to naming
individuals. What is the consequence of that change for
our ability to address that claim?
MS. OLIVIERI: It will, it will be the same
basic philosophy that I've been stating here. I mean,
it's going to be a name or identify. Tell us who you've
got a problem with. Don't tell us you have a problem
with one person and then go into court and sue six other
people who may be the people who actually responded to
the grievance, because MDOC didn't know that you had a
problem with this person.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought one of the
objections to the Sixth Circuit rule from your friend
was that this requirement of naming the individuals came
out of thin air. And now we have that requirement
articulated in the grievance policy. Does that make a
difference?
MS. OLIVIERI: It does make a difference in
proper exhaustion.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not an absolute
policy, though. It isn't that if you haven't named him
in the first administrative step, you can't name him in
the complaint. That's not Michigan's new policy.
MS. OLIVIERI: Michigan doesn't say you have
to name him at the first step. It says when you file
your grievance, you know, name --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't there an exception
when you couldn't find out?
MS. OLIVIERI: And if they say they can't
find out, and they've made reasonable inquiry, you know,
there's somebody at the top of the chain of the medical,
that's understandable that they may not know, because
they may have never seen Dr. Pramstaller.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did the Sixth
Circuit have the current Michigan policy before them
when they made their decision?
MS. OLIVIERI: Not on these three cases, no.
It was the previous policy which indicated that the
inmate had to be as specific, basically be as specific
as possible, something along those lines.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I take it from your answer
to Justice Ginsburg that back in my Dr. X, Dr. Y case,
under the new policy if they got to stage 2 and Y was
identified, that Michigan would process the complaint?
MS. OLIVIERI: We would process the
grievance, absolutely.
JUSTICE SOUTER: The grievance.
MS. OLIVIER: Yes. Yes. Finally, I would
ask the Court to keep in mind that the entire purpose of
the Prison Litigation Reform Act is to relieve the
courts of the burden and the screening process that's
set in place by this statute allows the Court many
options.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Now you say the primary
purpose is to relieve the courts of the burden rather
than determine whether there is merits to the
grievances?
MS. OLIVIERI: The, the purpose of the
Prison Litigation Reform Act was to relieve --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Was to reduce the volume
of litigation, period?
MS. OLIVIERI: To reduce the volume to
provide more --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Wasn't there any interest
in determining whether the complaints have merit? I
mean, I think you must be interested in getting rid of
11,000 complaints and reducing them down to 200. I
would think that's more important than saving the court
some time. There must be, you must have some interest
in determining whether the complaints have merit.
MS. OLIVIERI: Well, we do have an interest.
We respond to every one of those in three steps, and we
never end up in litigation for the most part so the
grievance process works totally outside of what
litigation goes on. It does resolve complaints. But
the Prison Litigation Reform Act allows the court to
either --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But these rules that are
challenged here are primarily to benefit the courts, not
the profits-- the process.
MS. OLIVIERI: They are to, to benefit the
courts by taking resources that had previously been
spent on meritless cases and spending those instead on
cases with merit, to efficiently screen these cases so
that the courts are not spending a lot of time asking us
for responses and so forth. If it's a failure to state
a claim the case can be dismissed right, there all
without prejudice. There is nothing draconian here.
They can be rebrought.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
MS. OLIVIERI: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Andre, you have
five minute remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEAN-CLAUDE ANDRE,
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS
MR. ANDRE: Justice Ginsburg, you asked
earlier about who is better equipped to plead and show
exhaustion. It's certainly our position that the
Michigan Department of Corrections or prison grievance
administrators are absolutely better equipped to do so.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is that? The
prisoner is the one who presumably knows best whether or
not he filed a grievance or not.
MR. ANDRE: The prisoner may know best
whether or not he or she filed a grievance and whether
or not he appealed. The prisoner may not know precise
dates on which he or she did so or have copies of the
grievances anymore. This really kind of brings the
heightened pleading rule, not just whether it's just
affirmative defense or a general pleading rule, to the
fore. Prisoners are prisoners. They get moved around,
they get put in administrative segregation; they are
subject to repeat searches; they have great difficulty
in maintaining possession of their belongings. On the
other hand the Michigan Department of Corrections keeps
copies of all the grievances, denials and appeals.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This seems to me to
be a stretch to say that the prison, which has how many
prisoners under their jurisdiction, is in a better
position to know in individual cases, an individual
prisoner, what this prisoner did or didn't do with
respect to the grievance process. Surely the prisoner
is in the best position. He knows what he did or at
least what he is going to allege.
MR. ANDRE: He may be able to aver generally
but with specificity there are many cases in which he
won't be able to. But the Michigan Department of
Corrections' policy directive makes clear that it has to
maintain these records for future FOIA requests, and in
many institutions it has to track them in a computer.
And as Justice Ginsburg pointed out, in the Jones case,
they were quite able to bring forward the proof of
exhaustion that would satisfy, that would have satisfied
the court that Jones had exhausted his administrative
remedies.
Jones gets, just got thrown out of court,
essentially, in a game of "gotcha," because he hadn't
attached his complaint in the first instance. I think
most importantly, from a judicial efficiency standpoint,
making exhaustion an affirmative defense makes sense.
That means that the lawyers in the state attorney's
general, in the state, in the office of the state's
attorneys general, are going to be able to put forward
the best arguments as to why a claim is or is not
exhausted.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It requires, it requires
response in all the cases, and as this subsection G
indicates, part of the purpose of the act was to
eliminate the necessity of responding to frivolous
complaints. Why -- why, you know, you have to go
through the requesting a response from the government,
when in fact there is nothing to this complaint because
there has never been any exhaustion.
MR. ANDRE: But to go back to Justice
Ginsburg's point earlier Congress could have included
unexhausted claims among those types of claims that the
court could screen out and dismiss or among those claims
for which a court could --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a different
argument. But I mean, don't tell me that it isn't more
efficient to have the prisoner say at the outset whether
it's exhausted or not. It certainly is.
MR. ANDRE: Or again, it may be more
efficient to have them aver generally, but as far as
having a prisoner comply with a heightened pleading
requirement, we don't think that that makes sense. We
are talking, again we are talking about prisoners here.
JUSTICE ALITO: If it's an affirmative
defense doesn't that mean that the prisoner is going to
have to file, and the individuals defendants are going
to have to file an answer in every case and assert all
of their defenses?
MR. ANDRE: Either --
JUSTICE ALITO: Just respond, even if there
is nonfrivolous, nonexhaustion argument that can be
made, they are going to have to go through all of that
in every instance?
MS. OLIVIERI: They would have to file an
answer and motion to dismiss raising whatever
affirmative defense they want to raise, but at least it
gives them a choice and gives them the opportunity to
frame this argument as opposed to putting it on, putting
that burden on the court. Moreover if the court were to
adopt respondents' reading of the screening provisions,
those screening provisions would swallow up every single
affirmative defense enumerated in the Federal rules, and
also those not enumerated.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: With respect, with
respect to the naming of the individuals, is that claim
moot because of the change in the policy?
MR. ANDRE: Oh, not at all. I mean, I can't
see how, how respondents could argue that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your main
argument before was they invented this requirement
without any basis, but now it's an actual requirement in
the grievance procedure.
MR. ANDRE: Right, but it wasn't when these
claims were decided. And that's where I think Sims v.
Apfel comes into play. Under Justice Thomas' plurality
opinion, the key is looking at kind of the nature of the
proceedings and if it's informal and accusatorial as
opposed to adversarial, then a court cannot impose a
requirement beyond that which the agency itself required
at the time that the claims were before the agency.
Under Justice O'Connor's concurrence, she
was concerned about fair notice, and certainly here in
these cases petitioners Williams and Walton didn't have
fair notice that a year and a half later the State of
Michigan, after going through the entire grievance
procedure and never relying on their failure to be
sufficiently specific, can then come into Federal court
and say, aha --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Future prisoners now
do have fair notice because the grievance procedure says
name the individuals, dates, names, places, names of all
those all involved.
MR. ANDRE: Yes, they would, they would.
And again, there would certainly be constraints to too
rigid enforcement of that particular provision.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is the no leeway built
into the rule itself, that if you don't know --
MR. ANDRE: I'm sorry. I didn't --
JUSTICE GINSBERG: Isn't there -- the
current rule, isn't there some leeway for cases where
the prisoner simply doesn't know the names?
MR. ANDRE: I'm not aware of any, Justice
Ginsburg.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
34:22 6:3,21 7:18,22 14:21 15:19 20:8 50:17 Assistant 1:22
36:15 13:15,24 19:24 25:23 33:23 anyway 29:1 assume 4:15
51:9,11 23:25 25:25 29:13 36:6 apparently 42:17
52:2 26:9 32:22 allows 19:10 44:10 attach 30:14
55:15 42:16 47:6 alternative 38:1 26:17 51:22
administrators amend 3:17 5:23 appeals 50:25 40:10
36:8 48:5 53:18 36:7 1:19 attorneys 52:2
adopted 21:5 amended 9:3,6 appears 5:11 attorney's 51:25
adversarial 8:22 11:23 application 34:5 automatic 32:18
adversary 29:17 21:16 apply 15:9 36:12 37:15
14:13 19:7 Americans 19:8 aver 51:9 52:23
22:8 9:14 19:22 2:9 3:5,6,8 5:2 area 35:11
30:5,9 5:7,16 6:15 7:3 areas 3:24 B
49:10 30:16 31:23 7:11,16 8:17 argue 54:1 back 10:12 18:7
32:1 50:19 9:1,9,20 10:11 argued 10:17 36:24 40:21
53:20 13:19 14:12,23 argument 1:17 48:1 52:13
16:22,23 agency 41:3 15:17 16:11,14 2:2,5,8 3:3,6 bad 32:18
26:7 54:12,13 16:25 17:7,11 11:25 19:12 bar 12:2
agency's 23:14 17:15,22 18:9 25:11 35:7,15 BARBARA 1:6
agree 23:18 19:1,18 21:14 36:20 50:3 based 15:2 21:6
42:17 agreeing 45:22 21:24 22:20,24 52:19 53:9,16 23:23 28:18
25:24 11:8 53:2,8 Angeles 1:20 aside 12:1 basis 4:6 34:3,6
46:12 alive 20:8 37:13 answer 11:3,22 asked 40:11 54:4
22:7 allege 6:1 12:24 20:10 25:3 asking 49:19 2:4,7,10 3:7
alleged 12:18 47:25 53:5,13 assert 53:5 believe 5:2
17:11 38:10 48:10,14 15:24 22:21 15:19 16:16,20 28:21,21
24:6 34:8 53:17 28:18 24:24 Committees
certainly 7:16 Civil 4:5,8,11 29:9
C 2:1 3:1 33:25 44:14 50:7 29:18 complain 39:8
Califano 10:14 55:2 7:13,15,19 8:1 6:1 7:17 8:7
51:7 calls 7:1 chain 47:15 11:15 16:1 13:11,18 15:12
care 38:18 39:2 challenged 18:22 21:16 15:22 16:17,18
50:6,9 careful 36:10,11 chance 5:20 31:4 32:8,17 28:25 32:17
case 5:24,25 40:17 43:20 44:17,21 40:8,23 45:19
54:12 7:20 10:1,10 53:24 49:21 52:3 48:3 51:22
19:3,14,15 Chief 3:3,8 7:8 10:4,23 13:18 15:11,24 38:8
16:12 38:3 41:1 42:1 50:1,10 51:1 34:13,19,22 20:13
28:16 42:23,23 43:9 53:22 54:2,22 35:13,25 36:3 comply 7:6 15:7
45:2 43:10,15,22 55:12 36:6,10,11 22:15 23:23
32:21,25 cases 3:10 5:14 circuit 5:14,21 54:7,13 7:16 13:19
5:14 6:8 9:17 10:4 12:2,4,5 classification concerned 54:15
12:16 13:5 19:6,18 20:17 cleanest 19:7 concurrence
26:23 27:25 22:10 29:9 10:22,24,25 conducted 3:13
47:21 49:17,18 42:22 43:21,23 clearly 5:9 11:6 confirm 26:6
25:18 49:18 51:4,10 44:2,8 45:8,10 comb 18:18 confirmed 19:21
31:17,19 52:6 54:16 45:11,19,23,23 come 54:20 30:20
33:2 55:8 46:22 47:19 comes 45:17 conflicts 8:17
28:22 category 32:1 circuit's 3:18 25:17 6:22 9:22
31:2 certain 4:8 5:17 8:14 15:5 Committee 8:25 11:17,19 25:15
30:19 court 1:1,17 3:9 54:24 denied 26:23 disagree 24:21
32:4,19 3:17,24 4:13 day 18:1 41:4 42:5 46:4 45:9,10
33:20,20 4:16,21,25 5:4 days 45:21 46:5 discriminating
34:17 5:13 6:13,17 deadlines 23:24 deny 38:22 43:6
52:14 6:25,25 7:3,5,5 deal 25:16 34:16 denying 39:18 disincentive
8:20 9:9,13 dealing 21:22 depart 30:7 dismiss 6:14,17
38:11 14:20 19:2,9 dealt 30:19 3:12,13 10:16 11:24 15:16,22
20:9,19 22:13 decipher 8:4 50:8,24 51:11 21:6 28:24
31:15 32:6,16 39:12 40:3,19 30:23 32:18,24 33:3
40:23 42:8,19 defendant 8:6 determination 17:21 33:10
courts 6:7 8:4 24:11 40:25 develop 25:25 6:7,13,25,25
31:24 33:23 defense 6:20,24 47:1,2 19:10 30:22
23:3 24:6 court's 4:23 30:16 31:23 33:16 41:5 45:15 46:4,6
42:8,10 5:18 8:14 32:1 50:19 52:18 doctors 38:20
27:9 Cranstall 46:7 53:20 34:17,18 35:1 12:22
51:12 created 5:8 defenses 53:6 35:2 doing 12:9 28:22
55:12 current 47:19 definition 9:5 15:4,5 50:22 Dr 39:19 42:2,3
delete 19:10 directive 51:12 47:17 48:1,1
date 6:4,4 denial 6:4 26:22 Disabilities 29:1,4 49:22
ET 1:6,11 26:4,5 28:23 12:23 15:2 40:7,10 41:6
51:23 44:19 42:20 47:3 far 52:23 40:20
excise 14:20 52:12 federal 3:16,21 18:18
24:7 15:14 21:7,15 expanded 29:22 22:11,13 23:13 21:16 25:24
37:5 30:1,3 31:12 expanding 31:3 24:22 25:17 31:9 41:22
49:11 32:11,13 34:20 experience 4:14 29:18,20 30:22 47:6,9 51:22
36:10 44:3 14:23 33:6 34:20,23 five 50:2
25:15 16:9 18:19,23 expression feel 37:11 FOIA 51:13
21:1 25:5 extent 19:21 Fifth 17:4 fore 50:20
35:24 37:11,13 18:18 formally 12:14
34:4,10 42:9 46:2,3 face 7:17 32:17 17:5 47:9 53:4 forms 6:8,11
54:18 51:18 52:4,21 facilitate 26:1 53:5,12 forth 5:1 28:17
43:4 10:12 14:6 50:12,14 37:11 51:16
53:20,21 5:11 6:10,19 52:11 17:10,21,25 four 19:19 41:5
50:6,9 10:2,7 12:16 failed 3:17 6:18 filling 6:12 frame 53:16
47:11 48:1 24:15,17,23 harm 18:24 29:24
55:4,11 39:17,22 40:13 Health 10:16
8:11 10:3 52:14 46:10,19,25 heard 28:17 51:23
11:14 give 27:5 33:25 47:10 48:5,6 heightened 4:3
29:14 43:3 49:8 50:8,12 5:21 8:21 54:11
52:8 given 5:20 50:14 51:6 12:10 13:8
23:14 25:2 39:25 48:16 Hill 8:20 18:21,21 36:8
25:6 29:9 34:19,21 ground 20:19 holding 12:13
30:3
38:8 40:3 grounds 20:25 horn 14:14,25
52:9,13 guard 39:11,11 housed 15:4 52:14
42:7 43:1,4 18:3 20:19 hurts 15:17,18
44:17 28:3 37:15 guys 24:13 increase 25:22
41:18 43:9 I increased 26:2
50:19 52:2 53:3,4,10 habeas 3:23 idea 12:21 15:25 indicated 29:16
54:18 4:23 5:18 6:21 identical 14:1 29:20 47:22
52:23 12:21 18:6 33:17 34:4,4 41:20,21 52:7
48:25 gotcha 51:21 36:13,14,25 43:24 48:3 10:18,21,23
GRANT 4:22 54:17 identify 41:11 individuals
21:2 happen 15:21 identifying 40:19 46:11,23
granted 33:13 20:10 20:20 53:4,23 54:24
29:25 33:13 happened 5:24 IFP 17:14,15,24 informal 38:21
31:1,10 great 12:13 13:8 16:6 24:19 ignored 7:14 54:10
32:10,14 50:22 happens 16:13 10:6 information
35:21 grievance 6:3 20:7 38:17,23 Immigration 25:2 30:10,18
54:25 15:15,21 16:12 19:12 41:2 leave 3:17 5:23
45:20 issue 6:9 17:23 17:13,19 18:3 key 54:9 leaving 11:25
22:3,6 26:25 19:12 20:1,12 38:18 50:17 left 38:6
37:20 29:17 23:1,5,17,18 know 5:4,6 7:8 lengthier 26:18
24:2,8 25:8,13 7:13 8:5 10:5 let's 42:1
JEAN-CLAU... 28:6,13,16 24:12 28:4 38:24
Jones 1:3 3:4 32:10,14 33:1 40:10 41:14 lie 4:7
53:11 21:6,15 22:2 35:6,10,17,21 44:12 45:15,16 limit 38:1
45:14,25 46:2 36:23 37:8,24 47:16 50:13,15 29:6 31:20,25
Jones's 13:7,7 41:19,25 42:14 known 40:15 lines 27:19
judge 16:4 18:12 44:18,21,24 50:11 51:7 list 6:5
judicial 10:19 48:23 49:12,24 language 11:9 25:20,22,23
26:1,2 34:7 51:15 52:5,13 14:1,2 33:2,6 29:21 32:3,3
33:8 jurisdiction 55:7,10,12 30:24 little 15:13
jurisdictional 42:14 43:12,12 6:21 14:24 live 20:16
4:24 5:18 justify 33:3 41:3 long 25:1,3 36:3
4:13,25 5:3,12 K lawsuits 28:8 longer 9:4 31:23
8:2,23 9:3,11 keeping 12:9 lawyers 51:25 33:24
42:4,4 13:12 14:3,16 4:13,25 5:3,12 43:11 looks 3:24
49:19 mention 42:10 22:18 38:14,23 54:23 28:14 34:23
48:24 49:4,18 23:22 24:9 O 23:17 29:15
25:18 naming 20:5 obscuring 25:17 40:24 53:15
38:25 19:15 40:25 Nationality 14:1 October 1:14 opposing 13:1
42:17 48:15 nature 54:9 office 39:13 52:1 option 34:10,11
29:15 Michigan 3:12 necessity 52:8 oh 12:21 53:25 options 33:25
3:12 22:25 need 37:11 41:7 Okay 35:17,19 48:12
54:18 41:14 25:10,11,13 21:25 40:19
22:11 11:17 48:8 never 26:10,11 28:2,9,14 29:2 Ortiz 19:5
29:8 minute 5:22 28:12 45:12 29:11 30:2,19 outset 14:13
50:2 46:5 47:17 31:8,13,24 52:20
mixed 13:20 Nevertheless 35:4,9,15,19 overrule 12:7
17:22 monetary 37:5 17:5 32:2 47:7 39:2,15 40:9 overwhelming
28:16 months 27:7,24 48:2 40:21 41:10,23 4:1 14:5
42:15 moot 21:22,23 Ngo 22:15,15 42:11,22 43:13 O'Connor's
48:25 22:1 53:24 38:4 44:7,16,20,23 23:17 54:14
53:3,25 Morrison 41:16 nonexhaustion 45:1,3,5,9,22
27:1,13 46:14 potential 26:3 17:1,2 18:1,14 10:19 11:7
13:21 17:10 practical 9:7 24:1,12 25:1 34:18
30:14 places 54:24 47:17 30:14 36:2,5,8 38:21,21 40:16
44:20 plaintiff 4:5,9 preclude 36:20 39:14,15 40:4 26:10 54:10
52:7 12:21 24:12 31:15 50:11,13,15 29:18 39:22
24:1 plead 4:9 19:13 49:22 55:9 49:14 51:6
46:6 55:3 36:11 50:6 preliminary prisoners 8:4 processed 27:8
52:24 50:11 51:3 53:1 proper 6:24
37:4 7:23 25:14 prevail 8:1 11:5 prisoner's 6:17 properly 20:7,9
40:7 41:5 PLRA 5:9,10 11:10 20:5 35:20,22 20:10 45:25
46:18,18 9:10,13,23,23 40:25 prisoner-plain... 46:2,3
9:16 23:10 32:2 28:2 29:12 probability 8:7 proposition
PLRA's 3:19 49:16 39:23 42:11,23 provide 4:6
38:19 point 6:6 8:23 prison 11:20 9:17 11:24 48:22
46:17,20 10:15 52:14 15:6,8,9 22:7 12:2,8 13:10 provided 24:16
2:4,10 3:7 46:10,25 47:5 30:6,11,12,15 40:4,16 41:16 30:20,21 31:9
13:6,7 47:7,19,22 30:18 32:3 42:24 43:18 31:14 32:21
22:2 48:2 51:12 39:11 42:15,17 46:16,16,20 33:12,17,21
53:24 45:16,17 48:9 problems 25:25 35:5 36:15
23:16 50:7 51:4,7 50:8 51:2 4:5,8,11 8:18 provisions 5:8
50:4 possession 50:23 prisoner 5:20 8:22 10:20 9:24 11:14
possible 18:22 6:11,18 7:18 12:8,20 29:19 12:7 31:19
38:11 reading 14:24 regulations 15:9 32:6 retain 35:24
48:8,14 53:18 rejected 4:2 researched 11:9 retained 33:9
52:7 reads 31:20 relevant 24:18 resolve 20:20 retaliation
26:19 20:7 21:3 23:7 relieve 48:9,14 resolves 19:15 15:13 29:16
32:19,20 28:22 38:13 48:18 resources 26:2 revoke 35:5
43:2,3 40:10 45:15 religious 40:4 34:2 49:16 rid 48:25
45:20 50:17 rely 33:2 respect 6:15 right 7:10 9:9
52:2 reason 8:2 15:23 relying 54:19 37:7 41:12 10:11 14:16
reasonable 9:18 7:19,22 13:16 Respectfully 26:16 33:18
40:24 32:23 33:14 respond 5:20 38:2 43:15,18
26:22 28:7 repeat 50:22 responded road 23:20
13:14,22 rebuttal 2:8 40:22 1:23 2:7 25:12 13:12 14:3,16
20:6,14 25:7 50:3 represented 44:1 53:18 17:9,13,19
21:23 received 6:4 16:3 54:1 18:20 25:8
recognizing requesting respondent's 37:8 46:8,21
27:21 29:19 52:10 21:6 47:18 49:24
29:8 recommended requests 51:13 responding 52:8 50:1,10 51:1
39:19 require 4:5 response 26:15 53:22 54:2,22
28:18 21:13 25:25 26:5 37:9 27:18 36:23 rule 4:4,10 5:17
records 51:13 required 10:2 43:4 52:6,10 9:10,11 10:9
48:19,21 54:12 27:14 30:13 12:10 13:1,8,9
screened 28:11 22:8,18 23:19 specificity 4:10 statutory 13:13
8:22,24,25 6:14 9:18,24 55:9 spelled 12:17 23:9 34:6
10:14 10:8 11:14 Sims 23:12 54:7 spending 49:17 stay 33:17,21
12:1 12:7 14:19 single 8:6 27:13 49:19 34:21,23 35:5
28:20 26:1 30:22 33:5 53:19 spent 49:17 36:2,15
29:8 31:11 32:20 situation 7:24 sponte 4:20 step 6:3 27:9,11
41:6,8 48:10 53:18,19 9:12 12:6 29:14,16,23 43:3,17,18,19
53:20 searches 50:22 30:22 33:12,15 32:24 47:6,9
see 12:8 26:17 15:18 16:20 stages 42:15 28:1,6,13
51:17 54:1 29:9 41:8,10 11:20 41:2 48:23 49:12
43:5 segregation 44:7 45:7,9,10 state 8:12 11:15 stretch 51:2
50:21 45:19,23,23 19:13,15 22:18 sua 4:20 29:13
16:22 18:13 30:17 slot 42:24 43:6 32:8,17 33:14 subject 29:22
31:16 51:24 52:25 43:16 39:17 49:20 50:22
33:12 sentence 27:2 Social 10:17 51:25 52:1 submitted 55:13
39:11 separate 26:18 somebody 31:5 54:17 55:15
41:11 served 28:10,12 39:17,20 47:15 statement 4:6,19 subsection 52:6
45:17 28:15 46:6 somewhat 28:3 26:22 subsidiary 8:14
54:23 serves 33:22 sorry 21:8 55:6 states 1:1,18 substance 7:13
23:1 sets 5:16 22:8 SOUTER 9:3 26:13 substantively
33:1 settle 34:15,15 11:22 41:19,25 state's 52:1 21:7
34:3 sheet 26:12 42:14 43:8,22 stating 46:14 sue 31:5 38:15
shoe 14:14,25 44:10,18,21,24 statue 7:9 38:23 40:6,20
short 4:6 23:23 45:4,7 47:25 status 17:14,15 43:16 46:17
52:5,18 show 50:6 48:6 17:18,24 sued 24:22
side 18:5 19:25 spaced 27:13 8:10 10:3,25 sues 22:13
Similarly 26:19 47:23,23 54:20 32:2,15 33:19 54:20
33:24 simplest 16:7 31:13 32:5,12 statutes 31:25 35:19,21
Thank 25:8 told 10:1 39:25 unanimous various 5:8
thanks 45:17 top 47:15 unburden 25:19 version 29:12
thing 15:16 16:7 20:16,18 21:25 23:10 16:21
things 15:24 totally 20:23 10:11 15:3 29:11 38:4
think 4:20,22 touched 38:13 43:9 44:11 VII 14:2
45:16 17:20 18:9 transcript 26:10 44:1 waiver 30:20
19:1,5,18 26:11 understood 32:4 40:22
40:1 43:13,14 true 5:2 16:12 14:14,15,21,25 want 8:5 10:7
30:24 43:20,21 44:7 28:19,20 36:7 16:19 19:4,10 15:9 34:12,12
44:13,15 45:2 37:12 43:21 34:13,19,22 35:14,22,25
49:2 truth 15:25 36:3,6 37:14 36:4,4,5 44:12
11:6 thinks 16:4 18:18 37:4 unimaginable 38:22 40:5
31:19 38:18 Turning 22:6 32:23 Warden 1:6
third 13:14 20:6 turns 14:19 United 1:1,17 42:25
Thomas 54:8 16:14 20:2 11:13 Washington
three 3:10,10,20 29:17 31:21 21:4 21:11 43:8
41:15 41:5 43:5,25 type 10:10 44:8 28:23 7:25 9:4 13:1
47:21 49:6 types 52:15 use 34:21 27:10 33:8
52:19 37:1 51:20 typical 26:9 27:2 week 18:2
10:18 44:13 49:3,19 37:15 10:14 19:5 weren't 9:12
times 17:17 22:5 U 24:24 54:7 we're 28:5 37:14
05-7058 1:5 9(c) 4:11 9:10
24:7 1
54:16 11,000 49:1
38:4 12:06 55:14
160 28:4
38:6 1997e(c) 30:21
21:18 1997(g) 11:10
33:25 48:2
42:2,3,5 28:5,7,9 49:1
43:24 2006 1:14
45:1 48:1 205(g) 10:17
10:20
3
43:11,24 3 2:4
30 1:14
48:1,2 30th 27:24
54:17 5
2:10
8:18 9:11 10:9
4:14,17 9:16
