IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
NORFOLK SOUTHERN :
RAILWAY COMPANY, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 05-746
TIMOTHY SORRELL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 10, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at
12:59 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
MARY L. PERRY, ESQ., St. Louis, Mo.; on behalf of the
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MARY L. PERRY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(12:59 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument next
in Norfolk Southern Railway versus Sorrell.
Mr. Phillips.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
The fundamental question in this case is whether
the common law doctrine of equivalence between defendant
negligence and plaintiff negligence applies under the
FELA. The doctrine of equivalence is, I think, most
clearly stated in the Restatement (Second) of Torts,
which is reproduced on page 19 of our blue brief in the
middle paragraph. And I think it is worth taking a
second to read it.
The rules which determine the causal relation
between a plaintiff's negligent conduct and the harm
resulting to him are the same as those determining the
causal relation between the defendant's negligent conduct
and resulting harm to others. That is a principle of law
that has been in effect long before the Federal Employers
Liability Act was enacted. It is obviously a restatement
of the law in 1965, and it is an absolutely clear
statement of the law as it applies today.
There is nothing in the Federal Employers
Liability Act that remotely modifies the doctrine of
equivalence. The two provisions, section 51 talks about
negligence resulting from -- or negligence in whole or in
part. And section 53, which describes the contributory
negligence portion or comparative negligence talks about
negligence attributable to. None of that deviates at all
from any kind of common law doctrines. Negligence
inherently calls for an analysis of proximate causation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except that the -- what was it,
the Rogers case, which said that the -- well, you debate
whether it said that, but let's assume that it said that
the rule of proximate causality doesn't apply to the
negligence of the defendant.
The basis for that holding was that in whole or in
part language which is used for the negligence of the
defendant, but not used for the contributory negligence.
So if you believe that that case was at least decided for
the right reason, it seems to me there's a good argument
that it changed it for the one, but not for the other.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, even if that were true, we
would still, of course, be entitled to -- I mean, it
doesn't change the doctrine of equivalence. It doesn't
say that we're not entitled to the same rule with respect
to the -- our clients --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But nobody does --
MR. PHILLIPS: The plaintiff would be. That
doctrine is unaffected by that holding. Now, I'd like
to take issue with the interpretation of Rogers, if you
want, at this point. But it seems to me the doctrine of
equivalence is fundamentally different from the doctrine
of proximate causation. And therefore, you can change one
without affecting the other one whatsoever.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Phillips, the fundamental
problem, at least for me, in this case is that there was
no objection at all at trial to the instruction that the
judge gave on negligence. There was an instruction
requested by the defendant on contributory negligence,
which read, "such negligence of plaintiff contributed in
whole or in part to cause his injury." That was the
only instruction objected to, because the refusal to
give that instruction. But you seem to be using that as
a lever to attack the instruction on negligence to which
no objection was made.
MR. PHILLIPS: That's not our attack, Justice
Ginsburg. Our objection, which is reproduced in 28A of
the cert -- of the petition's appendix, that says -- and
I think the current MAI instruction has a different
causation standard for comparative fault, meaning that
under Missouri's rules, we must prove that such
negligence of plaintiff directly contributed to the cause
-- to cause the injury. And that misstates the law,
because of the doctrine of equivalence.
That's our initial argument, is that no matter how
you analyze this, whether you do it from a proximate
cause or a slightest cause standard as the appropriate
way to evaluate our negligence, that same standard has to
be applied in evaluating the plaintiff's negligence.
That's the core doctrine. That's what we sought
certiorari on.
The argument with respect to Rogers was not an
argument we put into this case, Justice Ginsburg. It's
an argument that the Respondent put into this case.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I take it you would be satisfied
-- not wholly satisfied, but substantially satisfied if
we said, yeah, we accept the doctrine of equivalence, and
we think the instruction on contributory negligence was
correct. Because that would mean in the next case, you
would get a proximate cause instruction on defendant's
negligence.
MR. PHILLIPS: We would regard that as certainly
at least half a loaf, maybe more than half a loaf. But
at the end of the day, I think the right answer in this
case is that the Court ought to go ahead and decide
whether or not Rogers really did work a sea change in the
law.
JUSTICE SOUTER: If we came out the way I just
described --
MR. PHILLIPS: You wouldn't have to address that
issue.
JUSTICE SOUTER: We wouldn't have to.
MR. PHILLIPS: Absolutely don't have to address
that issue. On the other hand, the question is squarely
presented. And --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I thought you argued the
Rogers standard was a correct standard in the Missouri
court?
MR. PHILLIPS: We clearly did that, Justice
Kennedy. And we didn't raise -- we are not here
complaining about Rogers as an argument for why we
shouldn't be liable. That's not our -- we're not
criticizing that.
What we're saying is, in response to the
Respondent's argument which seeks to undermine the
doctrine of equivalence based on an overreading, I would
argue, of Rogers, that that interpretation is incorrect.
And if we're right that that interpretation is incorrect,
we would win on the doctrine of equivalence for two
different reasons.
The first one that Justice Souter described. And
the second one would be that to the extent that there's
any equivalence, there's no problem here because
proximate cause is required in every case. And we think
that that's an issue that the Court doesn't have to
decide, but certainly could. I'm sorry, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Phillips, the defendant
requested a charge on contributory negligence that read,
"such negligence of plaintiff contributed in whole or in
part to cause his injuries." You didn't want the direct
relationship, you didn't ask for that. You asked for one
that said, "such negligence of plaintiff contributed in
whole or in part to his injury." Now you are saying that
that was -- what you asked for was an incorrect charge.
MR. PHILLIPS: No, what we're saying, Justice
Ginsburg, is that we were entitled to the same -- if they
were going to use slight negligence with respect to our
negligence, then with respect to the plaintiff's
negligence, we were entitled to slight negligence as
well.
That's our fundamental argument. That's the issue
we have put on the table. And candidly, I don't think
there's an answer to that that's been offered in this
case, other than a harmless error argument, which I think
is candidly without substance.
The issue, then, is whether in evaluating the
doctrine of equivalence, do you want to then entertain
the plaintiff's or the Respondent's counter argument,
which is that somehow Rogers requires this fundamental
change, and indeed overrules the doctrine of equivalence
as it applies to FELA.
And I would say, one, Rogers doesn't speak to the
doctrine of equivalence at all. And, two, to the extent
it does speak to it, it was never meant to change the
fundamental rule with respect to proximate causation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except we've rejected petitions
for certiorari on that issue at least a couple of times.
Eleven circuits are in agreement as to what Rogers
required. You --
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, at least one circuit clearly.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you really expect to get five
votes for the railroad on this, what would be a massive
change of what is assumed to be the law for, what, 50
years?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think the -- well, the
answer is yes, of course, I expect to get five votes for
that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you were wise enough not to
ask for that.
(Laughter)
MR. PHILLIPS: But you know, the basic -- the
point here is that if you look at the decisions that have
analyzed this Court's opinion in Rogers, I don't think
any of them has analyzed it with much care. And the
reality is the Third Circuit has analyzed this case with
care, and reached the opposite conclusion.
We think there is a split in the circuits. And at
some point, if not through this vehicle to address that
issue, then through another vehicle to address that
issue. But, yes, it seems reasonably clear that, first
of all, there were at least 20 decisions of this Court
dealing not only with the sufficiency evidence, but also
with the adequacy of the jury instructions prior to
Rogers that refer specifically to proximate causation.
There is nothing in the statute that remotely
meant to change that. There is nothing that's been
identified in that context. It is at least clear to me,
and I hope clear to five of you --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Rogers said, in whole or in part.
Now, I agree with you, that I don't see how that does it.
But Rogers said that it did it.
MR. PHILLIPS: But what Rogers saying in whole or
in part eliminated was the specific proximate causation
standard existing in Missouri. And Missouri's proximate
cause standard talked about sole causation. And this
Court said, no, in whole or in part means sole causation
can not be the right standard for proximate cause.
The Court was not asked to decide, and I don't
think it did decide, that proximate causation, as it is
traditionally understood, was also thrown out the door,
or more fundamentally, that you can never ask for a jury
instruction that calls for proximate causation to be
given to both parties -- I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Phillips, I may be
lost a bit here. But I mean, which -- I'm looking at the
instructions that were given. And it seems to me it is
hard to take issue with the instruction on the railroad's
part because it tracks the statutory language. The
statute says in whole or in part, and the instruction
says in whole or in part.
So if you're pushing the doctrine of equivalence,
your objection seems to be to the directly contributed
language with respect to the employee, the plaintiff.
Now, but doesn't directly contributed, isn't that a
typical proximate cause instruction?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, that is a typical proximate
cause instruction, and that meant that our burden was
heavier than the plaintiff's burden, which is why we're
saying that under the doctrine of equivalence, we're
entitled to the equivalent instructions. Whatever they
are. If it is slight cause or proximate cause.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. But on the other
hand, you're also arguing in favor of proximate cause. You
are saying Rogers didn't change proximate cause.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. But we are only doing that
in response to the Respondent's argument. I'm not -- we
didn't bring to this Court an affirmative argument that
said we are entitled to no liability because of proximate
cause. That's not the argument we made. The argument --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How is the blue brief in
response to Respondent's argument?
MR. PHILLIPS: Because if you look at the
opposition to the cert petition, which took us to task
for not discussing Rogers in our petition, it says on
page 6, "inexplicably, petitioner does not cite, let
alone discuss Rogers, an omission that enfeebles its
entire discussion of FELA's causation standards."
Against that kind of an attack, we felt it
incumbent on us to deal with Rogers.
JUSTICE BREYER: As we're supposed to decide the
case, in your view, there was instruction 13.
Instruction 13 used the word direct.
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: You object to 13. You said it
should use the word in whole or in part.
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: You then argued to the lower
courts, 13 should use the word in whole or in part. And
then you say you've argued that here. So what you're
saying is now we're supposed to decide, should
instruction 13 use the word in whole or in part. That's
what it is.
I have to admit, I didn't quite get that out of
the blue brief. I thought you were arguing something
else about railroad negligence. But you're not now, you
say, arguing about railroad negligence. You're arguing
about plaintiff negligence.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, we're arguing both.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So if I reread the
blue brief, what I'll discover on closer examination,
that your real objection, not responding to the other
side, has simply been about the standard to use in
respect to plaintiff's contributory negligence. And what
you want this Court to say is, you're right about that,
we want the more relaxed standard used for contributory
negligence. End of case.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: It says that in the blue brief?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, it does say that in the blue
brief. Because what we say is that the doctrine
of equivalence is the principle that should apply. And
you know, it is not specifically before the Court whether
that means slight cause or proximate cause.
JUSTICE BREYER: I would say it sure is before the
Court, because what we are considering before the Court
is your objection to instruction 13. And you said it
should use the words in whole or in part. And I have to
admit, I don't know why it shouldn't. But I'll have to
ask them that.
MR. PHILLIPS: That's fair.
JUSTICE BREYER: You're going to say yes.
So all this other stuff is quite extraneous about whether
-- the railroad standard of negligence, the railroad
should be in a relaxed standard of negligence, in whole
or in part.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I don't know that it's --
JUSTICE BREYER: Causation.
MR. PHILLIPS: I don't know that it's extraneous.
It clearly is not something that the Court needs to
decide. On the other hand, it is something that the
Respondents, to my mind at least, put into the case. And
then we responded, to be sure, somewhat aggressively in
urging the Court to rethink whether Rogers was right --
whether Rogers really decided this issue as some courts
of appeals have.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Perhaps my memory is faulty,
but as I recall your opening brief, many pages were
devoted to what instruction should have been given on
railroad negligence. You were dealing not simply with
what seems to be the question presented, that is, was the
instruction on contributory negligence wrong, because it
said -- it didn't use the in whole or in part language.
Instead it said directly caused.
So that's the limit of what we can deal with,
whether the in whole or in part should have been in the
contributory negligence. But it was your brief that
spent a lot of time talking about the proper standard for
the railroad's negligence.
MR. PHILLIPS: There is no question about that,
Justice Ginsburg. But the point is that we made both
arguments. And they are in some ways intertwined, in
part because so much of the doctrine of equivalence
itself is based on proximate cause as the standard. And
so if you go back and look at all of the common law
analyses here, which are the predicate --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you didn't object to the
charge that was given on negligence. You didn't object
to the in whole or in part. So that should be out of the
case.
MR. PHILLIPS: Except to the extent that the
Respondents are asking you to interpret Rogers as a
mechanism for getting at the doctrine of equivalence.
Now, it seems to me you can answer that in one of two
ways.
You can say simply, as I said to Justice Scalia,
Rogers doesn't speak to the doctrine of equivalence, and
therefore, you don't have to entertain that, you should
just reaffirm a doctrine that every court except the
courts in Missouri have recognized for a very long time.
Or alternatively, you can say, well, look, they say that
in order to properly analyze the doctrine of equivalence,
you should examine whether or not Rogers worked a sea
change in the law.
And we took them up on that argument, and said, we
don't think it did. And that if it didn't work a sea
change in the law, then there is no basis at all for
doubting that you would grant equivalent instructions in
these two cases. And that's the guidance you would give
to the lower courts on remand. Because this case would
have to go back for a new trial.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're not taking them up on
any argument when you spent half your brief arguing about
what the proper standard was for the railroad's
negligence.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I would add to that that we
don't usually look at a BIO to see the issues that the
Petitioner is presenting.
MR. PHILLIPS: And you know, Justice Kennedy, I
understand that. But the reality is we raised the
doctrine of equivalence as our question presented. The
other side raises and uses a substantial amount of its
pages for the issue of the meaning of Rogers. We answer
that in the reply brief. The Court grants certiorari.
We decided under those circumstances that the sensible
way to proceed was to address the Rogers issue.
Now, to be sure, I suppose we could have said,
here's -- section one is the doctrine of equivalence.
That's a 10 page brief. Maybe the better way to do it is
just write a 15 page brief, wait for their 47 page brief
on Rogers, and then 20 pages on Rogers.
But we anticipated that they were going to do
precisely what they did, which is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you would have us
announce a decision on the doctrine of equivalence
without saying which way it should be made equivalent?
Raising the railroad's standard or lowering the
employee's?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, because -- courts of appeals
have been doing that for years. There have been a lot --
you know, a lot of them assume that there's a lower
standard, and they say that the doctrine of equivalence
requires that if the plaintiff gets to go with slight
cause, then the defendant gets slight cause. So that's a
ruling that's been rendered for years and years.
Is that the most sensible way? I don't know. I
think it would make sense for this Court to address the
more fundamental issue of Rogers. Because I think it is
an important issue that needs to be decided. I don't
think the Court needs to decide it. I do think it has
been thoroughly vetted for the Court on both sides, and
it would certainly provide significant guidance to the
lower courts.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Phillips, may I ask you this
question. Assuming you're right on the doctrine of
equivalence and you're wrong on proximate cause, for the
moment. Now, you said earlier in your argument, it is
perfectly clear there was no harmless error here.
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It seemed to me that a possible
interpretation of the record -- and I'd like you to comment
of the record -- is that the jury either believed the one --
one truck driver or the other. And that the direct causation
thing really didn't have an impact on the calculation of
damages.
And I was going to ask you to comment on that and
to tell me whether during the argument of the case before
the jury, did the plaintiff's lawyer argue, in effect,
that he had -- the railroad has a much heavier burden of
proving a causation than we do?
MR. PHILLIPS: Let me take the first question
first, and then I'll address the second one. There were
three theories that the plaintiff put forward of the
negligence of the railroad. Not just that the one driver
drove the other driver off the side of the road. There
was also a claim that the road wasn't constructed
properly, and there was a claim that he wasn't given
adequate safety instructions.
And there's no way, given that this was a general
verdict, to remotely figure out which of those theories
was the one the jury thought was correct, and how that
theory might line up with a causation theory, based on
the plaintiff's own particular view and the defendant's
arguments in this particular case.
So it is not as cut and dried as he said, he said,
and that's it. They were more theories in it. And you
know, if you accept the idea that jury instructions
count, and there's clearly a very different burden that's
imposed on one as opposed to the other, then it seems to
me the answer is there's no way for the Court to make a
harmless error determination.
It is also a question of State law. It ought to
be decided by the Missouri courts in the first instance
in any event, I would think, rather than this Court
trying to sort through the record.
With respect to the argument at the close of
the case, I don't remember any specific arguments that
either side made with respect to the burdens, because the
jury instructions were what they were. And I think each
side was saying, you know, we really didn't do anything
wrong. And so that's basically the way that it was
presented.
But I think given the way the jury instructions
played out, that there's no way at this time to
unscramble that.
JUSTICE BREYER: I think I'm seeing now, I think
the structure of your brief is -- perhaps a gloss put on
it, but saying this: Look, we objected to the
contributory negligence instruction on the ground that it
couldn't be different from the direct instruction -- from
the railroad instruction. And we said they should be the
same and they should both be in whole or in part.
MR. PHILLIPS: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: And we now want you to say that
the refusal of the court to do that was wrong, because it
violated the equivalence. But as soon as you do that,
you're going to have to think about what the right
standard should be for a new trial.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And if you stop there, probably,
they will put the in whole or in part, but that's not the
right standard.
MR. PHILLIPS: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: And if you really think about it,
you will see that the one we didn't ask for, but the one
that the court gave, is the right standard and should
have been given in the other case, too. Now, we wouldn't
have to say that.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: But you're saying unless you say
that, you're not going to give proper instruction to what
happens in the future. Now --
MR. PHILLIPS: You know, that's --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now let's think back for a minute
on the merits.
MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE BREYER: How could it be wrong? How could
it be wrong to have instructed the jury with the in whole
or in part language for the railroad, since that's the
language of the statute itself?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think if we were entitled
to go back to the trial court, and if the issue was
what's the proper instruction, we would have asked for
and we should have properly received a proximate cause
instruction. And that's what -- that's the question that
will be at issue on the remand.
JUSTICE BREYER: What possible -- you have two
sides. One, you write a proximate cause instruction in
whatever language you like.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: The other side submits a proposed
instruction with in whole or in part. I'm a trial
judge. I've never heard of this case, kind of case
before. I just was appointed. I read the statute. And
I say, well, here, theirs says what the statute says, and
yours doesn't. I'll play it safe. I'll go with the
statute. All right? Now, how could that be an error?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it is not a correct statement
of the law.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MR. PHILLIPS: Is the answer.
JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, what the statute
said it is not a correct statement of the law?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, because it doesn't adequately
explain to the jury what decisionmaking it has to go
through in order to evaluate this case. I mean, it is
true, it is not an incorrect statement in the sense that
there's nothing wrong with it. But it is not an adequate
statement because it doesn't deal, it is not sufficient,
it doesn't deal with the proximate cause issue. I mean,
it seems to me --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Phillips, may I interrupt on
exactly the point that I think you're addressing with
Justice Breyer? As I understand your argument, you're
saying one view of Rogers is that the in whole or in part
language eliminates the proximate cause instruction. We
all agree that that is one view of Rogers.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it also does something else.
And I don't think we disagree about that either. It
specifically instructs the jury that multiple causation
may be present. And if it is, if the defendant is at
least one, the source of one of those causes under Rogers
even slightly --
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- that that will suffice. The
problem I have with -- in a way with your response to
Justice Breyer, and the problem that I have with the
instruction that your side requested on contributory
negligence is this: It seems to me that the in whole or
in part language would be wrong on contributory
negligence, or at least it would be very misleading, for
the simple reason that you never get to contributory
negligence unless you found the defendant was negligent
in the first place.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And therefore, if the plaintiff
is also negligent, it will necessarily be in part. It
couldn't be wholly or in part. If it were wholly
negligent, you would never have found the defendant was
negligent in the first place.
MR. PHILLIPS: I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So that to the extent the
instruction addresses multiple causation, it would be
misleading to the jury, and it would assume a possibility
that couldn't happen. Therefore, if you are not going to
mislead the jury on multiple causation when you instruct
on contributory negligence, you've got to have some other
way of addressing the proximate cause language. Is that
analysis right or wrong?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think it is wrong on two
levels. One is, I don't know why you would need to have
proximate cause as your fallback, the last comment you
just made, because it seems to me if you're saying slight
cause, which is what Missouri thinks the in whole or in
part means, then you can just say slight cause when
you're describing the contributory negligence.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. But the instruction that your
side asked for, as I understand it, was not a slight
cause instruction, it was an in whole or in part
instruction.
MR. PHILLIPS: What we asked for was an
equivalence.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, and that -- all right. But
if you're asking for the in whole or in part instruction
on contributory negligence, it seems to me the judge has
got to have been correct in saying no to that, because to
the extent that it addresses multiple causation, it would
be addressing a problem that couldn't even occur in
contributory negligence which will always be in part.
MR. PHILLIPS: That was not the basis on which the
judge rejected it. He didn't reject it on the basis --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, maybe that was not the
basis on which he rejected it, but if -- we've got to
consider it in deciding whether to reverse it.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the point here that remains
is we said we are entitled to an equivalent instruction.
Now, if there's some variant of that, we could certainly
argue about that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that's not what he said. He
said equivalence instruction was not on multiple
causation. It was the equivalence instruction on either
proximate cause or not proximate cause. It was the
causation issue, it was the proximate causation issue,
not the multiple causation issue that concerned you,
right?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, that is the specific issue in
this case.
JUSTICE SOUTER: They don't have to have
proximate, we don't have to have proximate.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. That's our argument.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. But because the
instruction addresses both, in one view, proximate cause
and multiple cause, it would have been misleading so far
as the multiple cause issue was concerned, and a request
for an instruction in whole or in part on contributory
negligence really should have been denied. Is that
correct?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well -- I think -- I think the
argument would be that that cuts it too fine, candidly.
I think you can make an argument that what, you know,
what we were entitled to was some variant. And that --
our objection here is not --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You were entitled -- your
argument is you were entitled to an equivalent
instruction on the issue of the need to prove --
MR. PHILLIPS: The slightest cause.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- proximate cause or no need to
prove proximate cause.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's your basic argument.
MR. PHILLIPS: That's our basic argument.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. PHILLIPS: And we didn't get that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And I don't think you could have
gotten where you want to go with the instruction that
your side requested, which was an in whole or in part
instruction. That's my only point.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it may be that the in whole
part of this may have been slightly misleading, although
I think you can make an argument that you can end up with
in whole on both sides as a conceptual matter. But
that's not the -- that wasn't the complaint at trial. It
wasn't the basis for the trial judge's decision, wasn't
the basis for the court of appeals decision.
If the Court wants to send it back and say, is
there another objection to this instruction, that's fine.
But it seems to me, this Court ought to address this
issue in the way it has been presented.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was wrong with the
instruction, in your view of the case, that was given,
instruction number 13, negligence of plaintiff directly
contributed to cause his injuries?
MR. PHILLIPS: Because that's proximate causation.
And that's higher than we were required to prove under a
doctrine of equivalence, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's the direct
language?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yeah.
MR. PHILLIPS: I would like to reserve the balance
of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Phillips.
Ms. Perry?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARY L. PERRY
ON BEHALF OF THE Respondent
MS. PERRY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please
the Court:
The controlling question raised here is whether
instruction 13 accurately states Federal law. That's
exactly what petitioner said in their reply brief to the
Missouri Court of Appeals. They could not have been any
clearer that their challenge was to instruction 13. In
John versus Poulin, this Court said that State courts
have the authority to prescribe the rules of procedure in
their courts even when Federal issues are at stake.
The requirements in the Missouri courts were not
complied with here. No abstract question was presented.
The sole question presented and preserved was with
respect to instruction 13. And that can again be seen in
their opening brief in the Missouri Court of Appeals,
which specifically says the trial court erred in giving
instruction 13 based on MAI 32.07(b).
JUSTICE ALITO: Is the question whether
instruction 13 is flawed viewed in isolation, or whether
it is flawed when it's viewed together with the
instruction on employer negligence?
MS. PERRY: It is viewed in conjunction with the
instruction on employer negligence, but a fixed concept
of what it was, they did not challenge the language of
instruction 12. They accepted that. Holding that
language constant, what should we do to instruction 13?
They could have objected to instruction 12 and 13,
and they could have said, here are a pair of instructions
both in proximate cause, and here are a pair of
instructions both in -- resulting in whole or in part,
and then they could have preserved this issue. But they
did not do that. They accepted instruction 12 as a
correct statement of the law, and said, now let's look at
instruction 13.
JUSTICE ALITO: But do you agree that they set out
different causation standards, 12 and 13?
MS. PERRY: Yes, they do. Rogers concluded that
50 years ago and the courts in the Federal and State
system have nearly uniformly interpreted Rogers as
reaching that decision.
JUSTICE ALITO: So if the causation standards are
in fact the same, then instruction 13 is defective; isn't
that right?
MS. PERRY: Yes, if you can reach that decision
without interpreting instruction 12, or the propriety of
instruction 12, particularly since instruction 12
contained the exact language of the statute. Whatever
judicial gloss has been put on that language was not told
to the jury.
Justice Stevens, the question you asked, whether
there was any argument about the different standards, the
answer is no. There was no argument. The only way in
which the jury learned of this difference was in the
language of the instruction. And instruction 12 --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask you this question, if
I may. Perhaps I should have asked Mr. Phillips. Is
there such an animal as the doctrine of equivalence? I
understand the restatement describes what the plaintiff's
burden is on proving causation, and then it says the same
rules apply to defendant's contributory negligence.
But that doesn't sound to me like any overriding
doctrine of equivalence. It just says when they wrote
the restatement, the rules were the same. Is there such
a thing as the doctrine of equivalence?
MS. PERRY: There wasn't in the early 1900s for
certain, Your Honor, because at that time, even
petitioners recognized the doctrine was emerging. And if
we look at the language of 53, it talks about the type of
contributory negligence that used to be a bar. And that
certainly was a type of contributory negligence that only
arose with the traditional proximate cause. It certainly
wasn't on the slightest cause standard.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, doesn't there have
to be a doctrine of equivalence when you're running a
comparative negligence regime? Because, you know, you
talk about the plaintiff's negligence causing the harm to
a certain degree and the defendant's negligence causing
it to a certain degree. And if you're not dealing with
apples and apples, it seems to me you can't conduct the
comparison.
MS. PERRY: No, Your Honor. You can conduct the
comparison, and it happens all the time in cases where
one party has committed intentional misconduct and
another party has had negligent misconduct. The
causation standards are different in that instance.
There's a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. But we're talking
about comparative negligence here, where there's
negligence on both sides. And I just don't know how you
say one party's 20 percent -- contributed 20 percent to
the harm and the other 80 percent, if you're using
different causation standards.
MS. PERRY: Well, the causation standard is used
to decide what negligence you use in the balance and in
the comparison. For example, if a party is negligent,
but the negligence had no causative effect, that
negligence falls out of the analysis.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah, but your example of other
instances including having to compare a defendant who did
the tort intentionally with negligent -- contributory
negligence, that's not what we have here. We have here a
difference in the causation. Intentional or
non-intentional has nothing to do with causation.
But once you say that there's a difference in the
causation, it seems to me you cannot compare the two.
You cannot compare the two sensibly, unless you are using
the same kind of a standard.
I mean, let's assume that you find that the
railroad did not directly, but nonetheless caused the
injury to some extent, but the defendant was directly
contributory to it. What do I do? Do I add another 40
percent to his culpability because it was -- his
causation was more direct than the plaintiff's causation?
MS. PERRY: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why not?
MS. PERRY: It just affects which negligence was
in the balance. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, it doesn't. It certainly
bears considerably upon the culpability of the two, it
seems to me.
MS. PERRY: Well, in responding -- going back to
your question about intentional conduct, the petitioner's
reply brief, in fact, states that a broader range of
harms are considered proximately caused by intentional
torts. So there is a different conception of proximate
cause in that context.
But in any event, their merits brief consistently
argues for a proximate cause standard. In fact, it
closes with that. And its criticism of instruction 13 in
this case was precisely that it was a proximate cause
standard. So if they are now before this Court asking
for a proximate cause standard, they conceded that
instruction 13 was a proximate cause standard, they in
fact complained about it precisely because it was a
proximate cause standard, that issue really isn't before
this Court anymore.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't have any
conceptual difficulty with adding in whole or in part to
instruction 13, which is the employee's instruction,
because it's comparative negligence. It seems to me that
necessarily implies in whole or in part. If you can
reduce his recovery because he's in part negligent, what
would be wrong with saying in whole or in part in
instruction 13?
MS. PERRY: Well, I think Justice Souter hit the
nail on the head on that one, in that it does create
confusion and it can mislead the jury that the railroad
worker is responsible for other parties' culpability as
well. Moreover --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. I thought Justice
Souter's point was that taking it out of the railroad's
instruction might cause confusion because of it. But I
don't see how adding it to both of them when you're
dealing with comparative negligence, and it's necessarily
the case that partial negligence on either of their parts
can enter into the verdict, I don't see how that can be
confusing.
MS. PERRY: Well, in --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can answer it.
MS. PERRY: I don't want to interrupt anybody.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Answer the question, Justice
Souter. Yes or no.
JUSTICE SOUTER: The point that I was trying to
make about it being misleading is that if you use the in
whole or in part language for a contributory negligence
instruction, you are misleading the jury into thinking
that at least there might be whole contributory
negligence. There never will be. You don't get the
contributory negligence unless you've already found the
defendant was negligent, at least to some degree.
Therefore, if the plaintiff is negligent, it can only be
in part. That's all I was trying to say.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under that scenario, then,
what objection could there be to a recognition that the
negligence of the plaintiff can contribute in part to the
accident?
MS. PERRY: If petitioner had asked for an
instruction that said directly contributed in part, the
inclusion of the phrase in part there might not have any
impact. It could still potentially mislead the jury, but
they were seeking not just to add the words "resulting in
whole or in part," but remove the word "directly" because
it connoted proximate cause, and that they felt proximate
cause was not the appropriate standard for contributory
negligence, even though now that is the standard that
they solely are seeking.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, two things you might
comment on. First, the in whole or in part, you might
take account of the fact that there are other negligent
actors, third parties, who have contributed to the injury
to the employee.
Secondly, Section 53 does not contain the language
in whole or in part.
MS. PERRY: Absolutely, Your Honor. It does not.
In section --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's what Justice
Souter has identified, right? That's not because they're
adopting different standards.
MS. PERRY: I disagree, Your Honor. I think it is
because they are adopting different standards. The
contributory negligence --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you just told me, a
good reason for not putting in whole or in part in
instruction 13 is because it doesn't make sense, the
whole part doesn't make sense with contributory
negligence. That's a good reason not to put it in
Section 53 either.
MR. PERRY: That's one reason. But another reason
is that it's a different standard. In Section 53,
they're talking about contributory negligence that was a
bar to liability. That type of contributory negligence
was the kind that was more than -- it wasn't caused by
slight causation. It required proximate cause. That was
a pretty harsh result.
And it certainly didn't arise in instances where
the plaintiff had just had the slightest causal
connection. And that certainly was the conclusion in
Rogers.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, no, no. May I pick you up
on that? Because there's a point at which you and I are
disagreeing about Rogers. And in all candor, I think
it's because you are ignoring one part of Rogers, and if
I'm wrong, I want you to tell me. You quote the
slightest bit language from Rogers on both page 26 and 33
of your brief. And you take that as being language that
eliminates the proximate cause requirement.
What you don't include in your quotation is the
footnote in Justice Brennan's opinion following that
slightest cause language. And the footnote was to a
citation, the citation was to the Coray case. The
opinion in Coray was written by Justice Douglas and --
I'm sorry, Justice Black. And in the very language that
Justice Black used, he said expressly that if proximate
cause is shown, there can be recovery.
Now, given the fact that in Rogers, the very
citation to the language which you say eliminated the
proximate cause requirement cited a case in which
proximate cause was part of the very sentence relied on,
I don't see how you can read Rogers -- maybe later cases,
but I don't see how you can read Rogers as eliminating
the proximate cause requirement.
And therefore, I think you have to read Rogers as
addressing the issue of multiple causation, not proximate
causation. Now, am I going wrong there somewhere?
MS. PERRY: I have two responses, Your Honor.
First, Justice Brennan wrote Crane twelve years later.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Absolutely right.
MS. PERRY: And he, you know, definitely clearly
said that a railroad worker does not have to prove common
law proximate causation relying on Rogers.
JUSTICE SOUTER: He did, but he was also pointing
out, just to make it simpler, he was pointing out in
Crane that the liability arose in Crane out of -- I
forget the full name of it -- the Appliance Act. And the
Appliance Act had its own set of standards. And
therefore, you cannot, from an Appliance Act case, you
cannot infer anything one way or the other about the
general standard in FELA. And to make it even more
complicated, as I recall, Rogers was an Appliance case,
too, but he didn't get into that there.
But my only point is, you are right about the
two Brennan opinions, Rogers and the -- Crane. But given
the fact that it was an Appliance case, I don't think you
can infer one thing or another about an ultimate FELA
standard in the absence of an Appliance action.
What remains is that the citation in Rogers was to
Coray, and Coray spoke about there still being proximate
cause.
MS. PERRY: Yes. But if we look at those earlier
cases, particularly Coray, we can see that Rogers
articulated what was meant by that proximate cause
language. Proximate cause is, in a sense, a label for
scope of liability or legal cause, as the restatement
says. It doesn't have any singular conception. And in
Coray, the Court found --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it is understood by
everybody, isn't it, that at least it has the conception
which is captured by using the word "direct" as in
instruction 13, and at least it has that core of meaning
whenever it is used, doesn't it?
In other words, it may not have a lot of bells and
whistles associated with it in the prior law, but at
least it requires some direct causation as opposed to
indirect, right?
MS. PERRY: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. And that's -- I don't know
that Justice Brennan's citation to Coray, or Coray's use
of the language carries you any further than that. But
that's as far as Mr. Phillips wants to go.
MS. PERRY: We don't accept that, but even if
that's the case, the Rogers -- the parties to Rogers
immediately interpreted that decision as affecting
proximate cause. Twelve years later, this Court did say
that in Crane. The lower courts have uniformly, nearly
uniformly interpreted Rogers in a certain way. And at
this point, stare decisis suggests that this Court should
not overrule.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That may be. That may be. But
it seems to me that that's a different argument from
saying Rogers requires it, because I don't think you can
get that out of Rogers.
MS. PERRY: Well, and I also think, though, that
by lightening -- by saying the slightest cause possible
or, you know, a slight cause would create liability, that
does affect proximate cause.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't have to say
that. I mean, you know, when in doubt, we ought to
follow the words of the statute. And so whole or in part
makes sense with the railroad, but directly doesn't
appear in Section 53. Why don't we just -- why shouldn't
the instruction just say, "such negligence of the
plaintiff contributed to cause his injury." It's not
going to be a complete bar because we know the
immediate -- the next instruction talks about reducing
the award by the amount of the negligence. Why wouldn't
that be preferable to introducing extraneous terms?
MS. PERRY: Because Section 53 refers to
contributory negligence that created a bar. And that was
the type of negligence that required proximate cause.
Moreover, the type of instruction you are positing is not
at all what petitioner requested in this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, no, but he requested
that the instructions be the same, and the directly is
what causes the problem, and directly doesn't appear in
the statute.
MS. PERRY: But under Missouri procedures, you
have to be clear in the nature of your objection, and the
objection was that we want the same language, we want the
language resulting in whole or in part.
And out of respect for the State courts and their
right to create the rules that govern in those courts,
that was not satisfactory under Missouri rules. Missouri
rules also have specific requirements for what you have
to do in the court of appeals. There's a "Point Relied
On" which is the argument heading in the brief, and it's
required by Rule 84.04. And it sets forth a very
specific format, and it's supposed to start with "The
trial court erred in," and then you give your reasons.
And it says that negligence -- it erred in
instructing the jury to find plaintiff negligent only if
it concluded that his negligence directly contributed to
cause his injury, rather than cause his injury in whole
or in part.
You know, there is no issue that was preserved in
the Missouri courts other than that challenge. Cook
versus Caldwell which we cite in our brief, in Missouri,
not only do you have to object, but you have to keep
consistent with the basis of the objection. You can't
just object to instruction 13 on one ground, go up to the
court of appeals, and raise a completely different
challenge to instruction 13. You have to stay
consistent. And out of respect --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think they raised
an objection based on the doctrine of equivalence?
MS. PERRY: That was a justification for rewriting
instruction 13 to include the words "resulting in whole
or in part." I do not think they raised an abstract
argument about equivalency; that in order to do that,
they would have had to object to instruction 12 and
instruction 13, because equivalency in the abstract would
require modification of both instructions, and they
clearly chose to accept the language of instruction 12
and only object to instruction 13.
So no, not in the abstract, it hasn't been raised.
It was a justification for one particular result, and
that was a result that would have modified instruction
13. And in a particular way, too, modified it in a way
of including the words "resulting in whole or in part."
JUSTICE BREYER: I guess they want to make the
argument now, whether they did or not, that if we look at
Section 53, which I think is the part dealing with
contributory negligence. I don't see anything else. It
doesn't speak of causation at all.
MS. PERRY: Exactly, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: It just says if there's some
contributory negligence, the damages will be diminished
according to the negligence attributable to the employee.
So I take it their argument was, maybe with
hindsight, Judge, don't give this direct language,
because nothing requires it. And since, other things
being equal, nothing requires it, you ought to give the
same language you gave for the other side.
And they said the judge rejected that argument, so
now they tell us, well, that was wrong, he should have
accepted it. And all the rest of what he's saying is
just in case the Court wants to reach it, or something
like that. But what about that one?
MS. PERRY: I'm sorry, Your Honor. Could you --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I mean, should we answer
the question he now -- perhaps in his minimalist
position -- might want to raise, or maybe did, that
Section 53 doesn't speak of causation, the judge gave a
causation instruction. The judge's causation instruction
in their view was wrong, and the law requires the judge's
causation instruction on contributory negligence, if
there is one, to be the same as it was on direct, the
defendant's negligence. And he says that isn't what
happened, we objected to it, we produced arguments, one
of them was this equivalence thing.
So he's saying to us: Decide it, say that they
were wrong. What's your view of that?
MS. PERRY: We disagree with petitioner.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not surprised.
(Laughter.)
MS. PERRY: The abstract question of equivalency
--
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. That's just an argument.
MS. PERRY: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: It was not, but they say,
nonetheless, we did object that this instruction was
wrong. One reason it was wrong is because it speaks of
causation differently than when they spoke of causation
in respect to the railroad. We thought that was a reason
why it was wrong then. We think that's a reason why it
is wrong now, and we would like the Missouri court, but
they wouldn't do it, so we want you to say it was wrong
for that reason.
MS. PERRY: Well, I think we're in a difficult
position right now, because they're asking for proximate
cause in their blue brief --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, we say, well, we'll abandon
all that, that's just a series of different arguments
that we'd like the Court to say.
MS. PERRY: Okay. If we're putting aside the blue
brief then --
JUSTICE BREYER: If you read it carefully, you'll
see it, basically.
(Laughter.)
MS. PERRY: But if the question goes to the fact
that Section 53 doesn't have an express causation
standard in it, what you fall back on is traditional
proximate cause, that Congress departed from the
traditional proximate cause standard by using the words
"resulting in whole or in part" in Section 51. It didn't
create the same departure in Section 53.
In fact, by referring to the kind of contributory
negligence that creates a bar, it was pretty much
pointing right back to proximate cause.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can you have more than one
proximate cause?
MS. PERRY: I believe the treatises that say yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course. So then how can "in
whole or in part" possibly eliminate the proximate cause
requirement, because it could be in part and still be a
proximate cause. How can that language possibly be
interpreted to eliminate the proximate cause requirement?
MS. PERRY: Because when a cause that -- when a
slightest cause can give rise to liability, that has
effectively reduced or relaxed that causation standard.
There is still a legal cause requirement, yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it could be the slightest
direct cause, which is Justice Scalia's point.
MS. PERRY: Well, but if we look at like the first
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: Now, it may mislead the jury if
that's all you say. But as a matter of analyzing the
statute or even of analyzing what the Court meant in
Rogers, you can have a slight but direct cause, and that
would be proximate cause in the traditional analysis;
isn't that so?
MS. PERRY: Well, no. The Restatement, for
example, at the time of Rogers talked about substantial
factors, and talked, in other words --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How can you say no when you
acknowledge that the prior law when there was
contributory negligence used to require proximate cause
for both the negligence of the defendant and for the
contributory negligence of the defendant? Such a
situation could not exist unless proximate cause doesn't
have to be the sole cause. It can be just the cause in
part, right?
MS. PERRY: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So the mere fact that we had
contributory negligence statutes that were applying
proximate cause requirements demonstrates that a
proximate cause can be a cause in part.
MS. PERRY: Yes, Your Honor, but what Rogers and
the statute recognizes that it can be a very, very slight
cause. And what it was understood, for example, in the
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's what Rogers might
have said, but the statute doesn't say anything about
slight cause. It only says in whole or in part.
MS. PERRY: And neither did the instruction. It
just used the words "resulting in whole or in part" also.
But Rogers did interpret the language "resulting in whole
or in part" as meaning playing any part, even the
slightest. And that has been the law for 50 years. And
it would be a massive change in the law, as Justice
Scalia said earlier, for this Court to depart from that
at this point in time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't seem to me that slight
is the opposite of proximate. It could be a slight
proximate cause.
MS. PERRY: The Restatement at the time of Rogers
talked about substantial factors, and in the comment to
that, it explains that sometimes the other causes can be
so predominant that one causation is just not
sufficiently significant or of sufficient quantum to
constitute a legal cause.
So there is a component of quantity within the
concepts of proximate cause. I believe their reply brief
talks about substantial factor, and to talk about
something as being a substantial factor does have a
quantum component to it, just as slight has a quantum
component to it. A slight cause could not be a
substantial factor, or oftentimes would not be a
substantial factor. So the two really do go hand in
glove.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But under the old rule that
plaintiff's negligence in whatever degree was an absolute
bar to recovery, wasn't the rule customarily stated that
plaintiff's negligence, however slight, was a total bar
to recovery?
MS. PERRY: I'm not aware of that, Your Honor. It
may be.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I thought it was. I may be wrong
about that.
MS. PERRY: I am not aware of that. So that would
be a pretty harsh remedy if that were the case.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's what I thought. Yes, I
thought it was a pretty harsh rule.
MS. PERRY: And clearly, Congress in this statute
was trying to move away from the common law in many
respects to protect the railroad worker. And the
interpretation of Section 51 as lightening the causation
standard for the defendant's negligence, but leaving
intact the traditional proximate cause standard for
plaintiff's contributory negligence completely comports
with the purpose of Congress in enacting the statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why isn't "in whole or in
part" simply the logical corollary of introducing
comparative negligence? Why do you have to read that as
departing from proximate cause, instead of simply
recognizing that under 53, negligence on the part of the
employee can reduce recovery which -- without barring it?
MS. PERRY: I reach that conclusion on the basis
of Rogers. And in the petitioner's brief --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Beyond that, if the plaintiff's
negligence was in whole the cause of the action, then the
-- there was no reason to get to comparative negligence
or contributory negligence, because by hypothesis, there
would have been no negligence by the defendant.
MS. PERRY: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's why you don't have
"in whole or in part" in 53, not because they wanted to
depart from proximate cause there, but because, as
Justice Stevens pointed out, you wouldn't have it in
whole or in part.
MS. PERRY: Even the petitioner's brief describes
the language "resulting in whole or in part" as an
elaboration of proximate cause. They recognize that it
has bearing on proximate cause. And so if it has bearing
on proximate cause in Section 51, it certainly would have
bearing on proximate cause if it was incorporated into
the language of the instruction on contributory
negligence.
So that may be one reason for not including the
language, but another reason is that it does affect the
causation standard and Congress did not incorporate it in
Section 53, whereas it did have it in Section 51. And
when it modified the statute in 1939 for assumption of
the risk, to abolish assumption of the risk, it did not
equate proximate cause and "resulting in whole or in
part" necessarily as the same thing because one version
had proximate cause and it was not adopted. The phrase
"resulting in whole or in part" was used in its place.
So suggesting that Congress may, in fact, have
seen a difference, just as Rogers concluded, and I think
rightly so.
Moreover, as I said, that has been the law for 50
years, and it's pretty settled in this country and it
would create a massive change if this Court were to
depart from that. Moreover, this is not the right case
to decide that because the language in instruction 12
said, "resulting in whole or in part." And petitioner
has never --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is not the kind of change
anybody would have relied on, is it? I mean, I find it
hard to see reliance interest on this interpretation.
MS. PERRY: Excuse me, Your Honor?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I find it hard to see any
reliance interest on this 50 year old interpretation.
Is there anybody doing something differently because they
believe that the railroad does not have to be accused of
proximate causality? Does anybody act differently
because of that rule? I don't think so.
MS. PERRY: Well, for Mr. Sorrell in particular, I
mean, he acted, that he allowed that instruction to be
used, and now they're attempting to disrupt this
judgment.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I suppose employees have been
under the rule for a long time.
MS. PERRY: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose employee associations,
workman compensation schemes and Congress have all relied
on it.
MS. PERRY: Yes, you're absolutely right, Your
Honor. And there is employees' compensation for railroad
workers, and that may be very well be because of this
interpretation of Rogers that was adopted 50 years ago.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms. Perry.
MS. PERRY: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Phillips, you have two
minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. I'd
like to address just sort of two issues. One is the
minimalist issue that Justice Breyer asked about. It
seems to me that the minimalist way to look at this case
is we raised the question of whether or not the Missouri
standard which says that you cannot deviate from our
designated instructions creates a disparity in the way
you approach negligence and contributory negligence, that
disparity is inconsistent with the common law doctrines,
and nothing in FELA modifies it, and it's wrong. And
that by itself warrants the case being set aside and a
new jury being -- and a new trial. That's the simplest
way to resolve the issue.
If the Court wishes to go forward and deal with
the issue that Justice Souter addressed, then the
question is, what does Rogers mean and what do you do
with this "in whole or in part" language. And if you go
back -- you asked the question, Justice Souter, you know,
what does the common law say. We cite this on page 38.
If its negligence contributes proximately to the injury,
no matter how slightly -- there must be a dozen cases
that we cite in those briefs that talk about no matter
how slightly. And they refer to "in whole or in part" as
language that still recognizes that you still require
proximate causation.
The reality is nothing in Rogers remotely casts
doubt on cases like Brady that say but-for causation is
not enough, you have to have proximate causation, or
Earnest, where this Court said that proximate causation
is the correct jury instruction that has to be given.
This Court said nothing about that in Rogers.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you have in your ideal
instruction the words proximate cause given to the jury,
that defendant's negligence must be the proximate cause
of plaintiff's injury?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, Justice Ginsburg. We didn't
ask for that. All I'm saying to you --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you?
MR. PHILLIPS: -- is that the guidance of the
Court on remand, you could, and we would ask you to
address that issue and to resolve it. It is fairly in
front of you.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in your model instruction,
in your correct instruction, would the jury be told, in
order to hold the defendant liable, you must find the
defendant's negligence is the proximate cause of
plaintiff's injury?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. That would be my preferred
instruction on remand, yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even though almost universally,
the term proximate cause has been criticized as totally
incomprehensible to juries?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask this one very brief
question, Mr. Chief Justice.
In your view, would the doctrine of equivalence be
satisfied if we simply directed that the word directly be
omitted from the instruction 13?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think that would certainly go a
long way. I don't know exactly how strictly you want to
do it, but sure. I mean, that's the pivotal problem with
the way that instruction reads today, Justice Stevens.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Phillips.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:01 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
55:14 14:10 appear 41:2,16 articulated basically 20:12
36:11 36:17 apples 31:21,21 asked 8:11,14 27:20,21 42:15
52:15 affect 40:22 51:1 Appliance 38:21 11:3 22:4 25:5 50:4
43:2,6 aggressively 39:5,7 35:19 53:2,17 50:20,22
14:24 applied 6:9 asking 16:3 bears 33:11
40:7 agree 10:20 9:6 45:11 2:4,7,10 3:7
23:13 30:2 apply 4:14 14:3 associated 39:24 28:17 52:24
44:2 ahead 6:25 applying 47:16 52:12 46:8 48:19
alternatively 36:1 assumed 9:18 better 17:15
41:7 argued 7:11 51:5 bit 11:10 37:16
analysis 4:10 argues 33:20 12:18 blue 3:15 12:10
24:21 32:14 arguing 12:3 attempting 52:7 13:9,15,25
10:5 4:20 6:5,12,13 aware 49:7,11 Brennan's 37:20
8:21,24 9:3 B Breyer 12:20,24
17:12 animal 30:24 12:6,7,9,9,11 back 15:21 13:2,14,23,25
19:8 announce 17:21 16:16,24 18:18 16:22 21:20 14:6,13,19
53:1 answer 6:24 19:3 20:7 22:3 27:22 20:17,25 21:6
8:23 9:21 16:5 23:10 26:12,21 33:13 45:23 21:10,16,20,23
26:14 35:1,3 44:6 30:18,19 40:16 32:11 33:9 43:17 44:6,20
25:15 17:18 43:20,25 44:24 41:5,10 46:4 45:18 53:2
anybody 35:2 52:23 49:4,5 brief 3:15 12:10
17:10,15 31:24 38:6 40:20,21,22 47:23 49:23 52:13,16
20:18 39:12 53:20 41:4,11 42:9,9 50:12 52:19,21 complained
29:7 54:1 45:12,24,25 52:25 55:3,11 34:1
37:17 casts 53:25 46:5,7,10,12 chose 43:4 complaining
45:12 causal 3:18,21 46:13,14,15,17 circuit 9:15 10:5 7:16
48:19 37:8 46:19,25 47:1 circuits 9:13 complaint 27:19
55:2 causality 4:14 47:8,11,12,12 10:7 complete 41:5
31:1 11:1,4,7 12:17 50:20,21,22 39:8 40:4 complied 29:4
25:14 caused 15:10 cited 38:4 comports 49:21
32:20,22 33:5 causing 31:18 41:19 33:17 39:16,19
44:9,10,10,12 31:20 40:12 19:24 38:15 concerned 26:6
3:6 52:23 6:7,7,20 8:4,10 9:12 17:10 19:2 24:24 31:21,23 33:14
5:11 6:13 11:22 12:1,1,3 29:16 42:12,18 committed confusion 34:14
8:4 12:4,9 14:5,5 change 4:24 5:8 31:25 34:19
10:5 15:20 18:5,5 7:1 9:5,9,18 common 3:11 Congress 45:24
13:21 18:17 22:5,9 10:16 12:4 4:9 15:21 49:15,22 51:2
16:1,21 23:6,12 24:20 16:15,18 48:6 38:16 49:16 51:10 52:13
20:8 24:24 25:1,2,6 51:15,20 53:8,18 conjunction
22:14,14 26:4,4,14,15 changed 4:21 COMPANY 1:4 29:14
26:9 28:2 26:16 27:3,4,5 charge 8:8,14 comparative 4:7 connection 37:9
34:22 28:4 29:21 15:24 5:25 31:17 connoted 35:25
38:4,23 31:13,14 33:18 Chief 3:3,8 11:9 32:5 34:7,21 consider 25:21
40:8 33:20,22,24,25 12:2 17:20 49:25 50:8 considerably
44:3 34:2,19 35:25 28:14,18 31:15 compare 32:16 33:11
51:16 36:1 37:5,18 32:4 34:4,17 32:22,23 considered
55:12 37:21 38:1,4,5 35:1,15 36:13 comparison 33:16
38:8 39:10,13 36:19 40:23 31:22,24 32:12 considering
20:24 21:9 culpability 33:4 44:14 49:19 46:19,25
26:19 29:25 current 5:24 definitely 38:15 directly 6:2
country 51:14 cuts 26:21 47:17 41:15,16 42:8
court 1:1,12 3:9 damages 19:1 departed 45:24 disagreeing
10:11 11:1,3 day 6:24 departure 46:2 discover 13:15
6:2 8:9,12 14:4,7,7,21,25 23:5,6 53:13 8:1 discussing 12:14
28:4 16:10 17:10 dealing 10:12 describes 4:6 discussion 12:17
35:20 18:8,11,12 15:6 31:20 30:25 50:17 disparity 53:6,8
41:4 42:8 20:1,5 21:1,12 34:21 43:13 describing 25:3 disrupt 52:7
27:24 28:19,23 decide 6:25 8:6 determination 4:3,24 5:4,6,7
5:14 33:23 34:3 13:5 14:22 determine 3:18 7:24 9:2,5,8
8:8 13:18 39:17 40:10,13 18:11 32:11 determining 11:16,24 14:2
15:8,13 42:1,5,17 44:3 44:17 51:17 3:20 15:19 16:4,8
23:25 45:7,15 46:24 decided 4:19 deviate 53:5 16:10,13 17:7
25:3 48:7 51:15 15:1 17:11 deviates 4:8 17:14,21 18:3
26:17 53:13 54:3,5 18:10 20:4 devoted 15:5 18:16 28:7
54:14 deciding 25:21 difference 30:20 30:24 31:4,6,9
33:3 courts 13:3 15:1 decision 17:21 32:19,21 51:11 31:16 42:21
36:1 16:11,21 17:25 27:20,21 30:7 different 5:7,24 55:4
37:2 18:14 20:4 30:11 40:9 7:25 19:24 doctrines 4:9
41:10 28:25 29:2,3 decisionmaking 20:21 30:3,18 53:8
44:12 30:5 40:11 23:1 32:2,9 33:17 doing 12:5 18:1
47:8,10 41:22,23 42:12 decisions 10:2 36:15,17 37:1 52:1
49:21 Court's 10:3 10:11 40:16 42:17 door 11:5
53:7 Crane 38:13,20 decisis 40:13 45:14 doubt 40:24
40:11 defendant 3:11 52:1,3 doubting 16:19
46:2 51:15 24:5,11 32:16 diminished dried 19:21
created 41:10 33:2 35:12 43:18 driver 18:24
48:7 3:11,13 4:4,24 explain 23:1 fixed 29:15 glove 49:1
14:3 15:19 extent 8:2 9:8 footnote 37:20 27:12 40:6
23:16 18:17 21:2 extraneous format 42:4 goes 45:21
34:22 25:9 26:2,3 14:14,20 41:8 forth 42:3 going 8:17 14:13
28:7 30:24 forward 19:9 17:18 19:2
F 53:13 21:3,17 24:17
42:21 44:16 fact 30:9 33:15 found 24:5,11 33:13 38:11
42:25 43:2 45:21 46:3 full 38:21 36:23
38:3 equivalent factor 48:20,21 3:10 5:10 8:21 govern 41:23
17:22 25:23 factors 47:5 fundamentally grants 17:10
43:19 error 8:24 18:19 fall 45:23 guidance 16:20
22:18 fallback 24:24 G 18:13 54:13
52:12
far 26:15 40:6 3:6 52:23 H
34:6 23:2 faulty 15:3 38:25 16:24
9:1 Federal 3:23 4:2 Ginsburg 5:10 14:22 48:25
everybody 30:5 8:16 15:3,17 happened 44:15
55:8 figure 19:16 43:21,23 46:15 31:18 32:8
11:25 examine 16:14 fine 26:21 27:23 19:15 20:14 harms 33:16
22:2 example 32:12 first 8:1 10:10 21:13 28:2 harsh 37:6
26:23,25 32:15 47:4,21 19:7,8 20:4 38:2 39:4 54:4 49:12,14
Excuse 51:23 24:6,12 36:5 54:7 head 34:13
12:19 51:17 52:6 53:1 34:12,17,17
initial 6:5 20:10,14 29:20 43:25 44:9 40:3,4,15,23
36:11 28:4 43:3 53:6 44:10,11 43:11,17 44:6
38:12 injury 5:16 6:3 instructs 23:17 judgment 52:8 44:20,24 45:1
43:16 8:13 33:2 36:7 intact 49:20 judicial 30:15 45:13,18 46:6
47:19 41:4 42:9,9 intentional juries 55:1 46:9,18,19,22
50:11 53:19 54:9,21 31:25 32:19 jury 10:13 11:6 47:6,15,23
52:16 instance 20:4 33:14,16 18:23 19:4,17 48:6,9 49:2,9
interest 51:22 24:16,18 30:16 51:24 52:9,12
5:13,17,18,19 5:5 7:22,23 Justice 3:3,8 55:10,11
13:6 14:8 15:5 40:9,12 46:13 8:15 9:11,16 K
20:22 21:17 30:12 11:9 12:2,10 Kennedy 7:11
27:2,12,14,23 introducing 16:7,23 17:2,5 22:14 32:24
50:25 29:6,9,11,13 isolation 29:11 20:17,25 21:6 51:20
30:12,13,13,21 10:9,10 11:12 23:8,10,15,22 17:5 18:2,7
34:6,6,11,19 18:9,10 22:3,7 25:4,10,19 21:19 24:23
39:21 41:3,6 26:16 27:2,25 27:4,7,9,11 32:6 38:15
42:11 lightening 40:20 memory 15:3 nature 41:19 neither 48:1
55:8 49:18 mere 47:15 nearly 30:6 never 9:9 11:6
15:9 52:10 55:8 53:2,3 needs 14:21 32:20
22:1,10 look 10:2 12:12 minute 21:20 18:10,11 Norfolk 1:3 3:4
24:2,20 15:21 16:12 minutes 52:22 negligence 3:12 number 28:3
29:16,18 17:3 20:19 misconduct 3:12 4:5,5,7,7
29:25 31:10 31:25 32:1 4:8,9,15,17,18 O
35:7 39:11 43:12 mislead 24:18 5:13,14,15,19 O 2:1 3:1
37:16,17 46:20 53:3 34:14 35:22 6:2,8,9,18,21 object 12:24
38:3 looking 11:10 46:22 8:8,9,12,17,18 15:23,24 42:14
40:5 lost 11:10 misleading 24:3 8:19,19 13:10 42:16 43:1,5
43:4 lot 15:14 18:1,2 24:16 26:15 13:11,12,18,21 45:2
46:12 39:23 27:16 35:6,8 14:15,16 15:6 objected 5:17
50:18,23 Louis 1:17 Missouri 7:12 15:8,13,15,24 20:19 29:19
53:16 lower 13:2 16:21 10:24 16:11 17:1 19:10 44:15
18:2,14 40:11 20:4 25:1 20:20 24:1,3,5 objection 5:12
45:20 41:18,24,24 25:16 26:18 13:16 14:8
6:3 7:2 MAI 5:24 29:9 53:4 31:2,11,12,17 35:16 41:19,20
15:21 MARY 1:17 2:6 Missouri's 6:1 31:18,19 32:5 42:15,21
20:3 28:16 10:24 32:6,11,13,14 obviously 3:24
28:21 massive 9:17 misstates 6:3 32:18 33:8 occur 25:15
38:17 48:6 51:15 Mo 1:17 34:7,21,22 October 1:10
44:11 matter 1:11 6:5 model 54:17 35:7,10,11,17 offered 8:23
48:5,6 27:18 46:23 modification 36:2,18,23 oftentimes
51:13 53:20,21 55:14 43:3 37:2,3 41:3,7 48:24
mean 4:23 6:19 modified 43:8,9 41:10,11 42:6 Oh 45:13
48:17 55:9 move 49:16 49:19,21,25 omission 12:16
32:25 17:9 39:21 24:15,18 25:14 50:24 53:7,7 once 32:21
37:3 meant 9:9 10:16 N 24:12 32:1,12 37:20,23
39:15 11:22 39:13 N 2:1,1 3:1 32:17 34:9 opinions 39:4
46:15 46:24 nail 34:13 35:12,13 36:6 opposed 19:25
49:24 50:2,13 51:18 52:24 6:9 8:18 9:3 29:23 42:11
51:9,18 53:16 petitioner's 19:4,19 30:25 49:12,14 51:14
28:16 partial 34:22 petitions 9:11 49:3,5,21 50:6 14:3
54:19 19:20 43:7,9 Phillips 1:15 2:3 play 22:17 39:24 47:7
40:24 particularly 4:22 5:3,10,21 playing 48:4 problem 5:11
30:13 39:12 6:22 7:5,8,14 please 3:9 28:18 8:3 23:23,24
34:15 36:7 10:1,22 11:9 15:17 23:9 55:9
14:12,18,20 40:13 42:1 proceed 17:12
17:15,16 perfectly 18:19 20:24 21:5,9 38:19 46:5 22:4
37:16 Perry 1:17 2:6 21:15,19,22 portion 4:7 properly 16:13
28:15,16,18 22:2,11,19,22 positing 41:12 19:13 22:5
31:7,23 32:10 23:21 24:7,13 45:11 propriety 30:12
10:19 36:25 38:12,15 27:10,15 28:5 possibly 46:10 provide 18:13
11:1,13 39:11 40:2,7 28:10,12,14 46:12 proving 19:6
12:25 40:19 41:9,18 30:23 40:6 potentially 31:1
14:9,17 42:22 43:16 52:21,23,25 35:22 provisions 4:4
44:5,19,22,25 54:10,13,22 Poulin 28:25 proximate 4:10
21:7,25 45:10,16,21 55:7,11 precisely 17:19 4:14 5:8 6:6,20
23:11 46:8,14,20 phrase 35:21 33:22 34:1 8:4 9:10 10:14
25:2 47:3,14,19 51:8 predicate 15:22 10:23,24 11:2
48:1,12 49:7 pick 37:11 predominant 11:4,7,20,21
27:13,16 49:11,15 50:4 pivotal 55:9 48:15 12:1,3,4,8 14:5
34:5,8,9 50:11,17 51:23 place 24:6,12 preferable 41:8 15:20 18:17
35:7,14 52:5,11,15,19 51:9 preferred 54:22 22:5,9 23:6,12
52:20 plaintiff 3:12 prescribe 29:1 24:20,24 26:4
petition 12:13 5:3,15 6:2 8:9 present 23:18 26:4,5,11,11
38:5 12:14 8:12 11:18 presented 7:10 26:14 27:4,5
41:21 petitioner 1:5,16 13:12 18:4 15:7 17:7 28:5 29:21
43:10 2:4,10 3:7 19:9 24:8 28:3 20:13 27:25 31:13 33:17,20
46:1,10 12:15 17:4 35:13,17 37:8 29:4,5 33:22,24,25
47:13,18 28:22 35:19 41:4 42:7 presenting 17:4 34:2 35:25,25
13:10,11 14:15 recall 15:4 39:1 remotely 4:3 Respondent's
14:15 15:6 received 22:5 10:15 19:16 7:20 9:3 12:6
19:5,10 20:22 recognition 53:25 12:11
41:11 21:25 33:1 35:16 remove 35:24 responding
34:14 38:16 recognize 50:19 rendered 18:6 13:16 33:13
41:1 45:5 recognized reply 17:10 response 7:19
47:1,8 49:17 52:2,16 16:11 31:9 28:22 33:15 12:6,11 23:23
railroad's 11:12 recognizes 48:19 responses 38:12
15:15 16:25 47:20 53:23 reproduced responsible
50:1,14 17:23 34:18 recognizing 3:15 5:22 34:15
Railway 1:4 3:4 50:2 request 26:16 rest 44:2
52:3 raise 7:15 42:17 record 18:22,23 requested 5:14 restatement
54:2,3,7 44:8 20:6 8:8 23:25 3:14,24 30:25
raised 17:6 recovery 34:9 27:13 41:13,14 31:5 39:15
53:19 43:6 53:4 50:3 47:8 53:23 result 37:6 43:7
19:9 reach 30:11 44:3 refer 10:14 requirement 35:23 41:21
21:7 50:4 53:22 37:18 38:4,8 42:23 43:10
36:23 reached 10:6 referring 46:3 46:11,13,17 46:1 48:2,3
read 3:17 5:15 refusal 5:17 29:3 41:25 51:18
38:7,9 45:18 regard 6:22 requires 9:4 reverse 25:21
regime 31:17 18:4 39:25 rewriting 42:22
reality 10:5 17:6 relation 3:18,21 reserve 28:12 13:19,22 14:25
15:7,16 really 7:1 9:16 8:11 54:15 21:12,15 22:11
18:16 15:1 18:25 relaxed 13:20 respect 4:25 22:18,21 23:14
20:3 22:6 20:11 21:10 14:16 46:16 6:12 8:17,18 23:21 24:7,21
29:4,5 26:18 34:2 reliance 51:22 9:10 11:18 25:10 26:7,12
30:17,22 48:25 51:25 13:18 20:7,9 27:6 30:10
35:3 reason 4:20 24:4 relied 38:5 42:1 29:6 41:22 32:4 36:14
45:21 36:20,23,25,25 51:21 52:13 42:19 45:5 38:14 39:3
45:3,5,6,9 50:8 relying 38:17 respects 49:17 40:1 41:23
50:25 51:1 remaining 52:22 responded 44:25 45:11
22:7 54:14,23 28:17 rise 46:15
12:2 8:15 10:22 send 27:22 sole 10:25 11:1 6:7,8 7:12,12
28:14 11:24 12:4 sense 18:8 23:3 29:5 47:12 10:24,25 11:2
32:4 13:5 17:22 36:21,22 39:14 solely 36:3 13:17,20 14:15
35:1 20:11,19 21:16 41:1 somewhat 14:24 14:16 15:14,20
36:13,19 23:11 24:25 sensible 17:11 soon 21:2 16:25 17:23
41:14 25:13 34:10 18:7 Sorrell 1:7 3:4 18:3 21:4,8,12
47:23 40:17,20 44:2 sensibly 32:23 52:5 31:14 32:10,24
50:12 44:17 54:11 sentence 38:5 sorry 8:6 11:8 33:20,23,24,25
55:11 says 5:23 11:14 series 45:14 21:22 37:24 34:2 36:1,2
7:1,12,16 13:25 22:16,16 53:10 sort 20:6 53:1 39:7 45:23,25
9:4,7,13 29:8 31:1,4 sets 42:3 sought 6:10 46:16 49:19,20
39:16 42:6 settled 51:14 sound 31:3 51:2 53:5
12:4,14 43:17 44:14 shown 38:1 source 23:19 standards 12:17
14:25 47:25 53:5 side 13:17 17:8 Souter 6:15 7:3 30:3,8,18 32:2
16:3,8,14 Scalia 4:11 5:2 19:11 20:9,11 7:7 8:1 23:8,15 32:9 36:15,17
9:11,16,23 22:12 23:25 23:22 24:8,14 38:22
23:11,13 10:19 16:7 25:5 27:13 25:4,10,19 stare 40:13
30:4,6 32:15 33:7,10 43:24 26:1,10,13,25 start 42:4
35:3 46:6,9 sides 18:12 22:9 27:4,7,9,11 State 20:3 28:25
47:6,15 48:7,9 27:18 32:6 28:8,11 34:12 30:5 41:22
51:20,24 significant 35:4,5 36:14 stated 3:14 49:4
Scalia's 46:19 18:13 48:16 37:11 38:14,18 statement 4:1
46:25 scenario 35:15 simple 24:4 39:18 40:3,15 22:19,24 23:3
schemes 52:13 simpler 38:19 46:18,22 49:2 23:5 29:25
50:5 scope 39:15 simplest 53:11 49:9,13 53:14 states 1:1,12
52:18 sea 7:1 16:14,17 simply 13:17 53:17 28:21 33:15
54:5 second 3:14,17 15:6 16:7 Souter's 34:18 statute 10:15
42:3 49:2 Secondly 36:9 55:5 3:4 22:16,18,23
52:4 section 4:4,6 singular 39:16 speak 9:7,9 16:8 30:14 40:25
17:14 36:9,12 situation 47:11 43:15 44:9 41:17 46:24
31:2,5 41:2,9 43:13 12:1 14:5 18:4 specific 10:23 49:22 51:4
44:9 45:22 18:5 24:25 20:8 26:8 statutes 47:16
seeking 35:23 40:20 46:15,18 squarely 7:9 structure 20:18
55:5 seeks 7:20 slightly 23:20 stake 29:2 submits 22:12
Thank 3:8 28:14 told 30:15 36:19 universally 31:7,14 37:4
48:13,20 theirs 22:16 torts 3:14 33:17 20:16 17:12,15,22
theories 19:9,16 total 49:5 urging 14:25 18:7 19:15
theory 19:18,18 tracks 11:13 13:3,6,17 14:923:23 24:20
51:7 47:1 49:20 uses 17:8 43:9,9 53:3,6
43:22 11:5 ways 15:18 16:6
5:24 6:18,24 trial 5:12 16:22v 1:6 we're 4:25 7:17
10:3,7 11:4 27:19,20 29:8 26:23 11:23,24 12:20
20:10,14,17,17 true 4:22 23:3 34:23 we've 9:11 25:20
42:4 22:2 23:9,16 35:14 49:16 versus 3:4 28:25 whistles 39:24
55:9 34:12 36:16 40:10 view 12:21 win 7:24
43:13 24:22 32:22,23 44:11,18 55:4 word 12:22,25
19:7 third 10:5 36:7 type 31:10,12 39:23 40:25
37:17 thoroughly 37:3 41:11,12 W 42:23 43:10
18:12 typical 11:20,21wait 17:16 45:25 47:5
13:9 19:17 U 9:2 13:19,20 work 7:1 16:17
48:13 49:9,13,14 unaffected 5:4 35:2 37:15 worker 34:15
37:2 thrown 11:5 understand 17:6 44:8 45:8 55:8 workers 52:17
48:20 20:15 28:13 30:25 wants 27:22 worth 3:16
times 9:12 uniformly 30:6 Washington 1:9 45:8 50:15
20:12 1939 51:4
1965 3:25
24:2,21
28:1 2
37:15 2:01 55:13
44:1,11 20 10:11 17:17
45:3,3,6 32:7,7
49:9 2006 1:10
26 37:16
28A 5:22
29:9
30:5 47 17:16
40:10
51:14 5
50 9:18 30:5
51:13,25
52:18
1:6 51 4:4 46:1
50:21
51:3
1:10 17:15 52 2:10
29:17,19,24 53 4:6 31:10
36:9,24 37:1
43:1,4 41:2,9 43:13
44:9 45:22
1:13 3:2 46:2 50:2,13
12:21,22,24 51:3
14:8
6
6 12:15
30:1,3,9
34:6 8
36:21 80 32:8
42:16,18 84.04 42:3
43:2,5,9
17:16
