IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
GARY LAWRENCE, :
Petitioner, :
v. : No. 05-8820
FLORIDA. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 31, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United
States at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MARY C. BONNER, ESQ., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; on
behalf of the Petitioner.
CHRISTOPHER M. KISE, ESQ., Tallahassee, Fla; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MARY C. BONNER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
CHRISTOPHER M. KISE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 23
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MARY C. BONNER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 46
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear arguments
next in Lawrence V. Florida.
Ms. Bonner.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARY C. BONNER
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MS. BONNER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Mr. Lawrence in this case made an
application for relief in the state courts of Florida,
that unfortunately was denied to him, the relief that he
sought. Consequently, he came here to the United States
Supreme Court on a certiorari review and the certiorari,
although it was denied, he did present to this Court an
issue on which it could have acted had it chosen to act.
It is well within the power under 28 U.S.C. 2104 for
this Court to modify, vacate, remand. In other words,
this Court can and could have affected that judgment.
Our position is that this -- there is a
distinction between the, quote, "appellate jurisdiction"
under 2104 and the original writ of certiorari which
would lie in this Court in some instances. When one
uses the appeal, one is not making a new application.
We respectfully suggest that the utilization of the
emphasis in 2244 should be on application and what was
before this Court on petition for certiorari was the
application, the document, the issues, which had been
presented below in the Florida courts and this Court was
sitting to determine whether it would --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It would presumably,
though, be limited in some ways. For example, if the
application for state post-conviction relief raised
arguments under state law, those would not be a proper
subject of a petition for certiorari.
MS. BONNER: Absolutely not, Your Honor.
And the issues which were raised were the same ones that
were raised in the state court and were of
constitutional dimension that Mr. Lawrence raised here.
But our point is if the emphasis is on the application,
then until the finality of action on the application --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying the
application is the application -- the petition for
certiorari is the application?
MR. PECK: No, sir. I'm saying the
application under 3850 in Florida state trial courts,
which then goes to the Florida State Supreme Court, is
the application upon which this Court would be acting.
If it were not acting on that, what would it be acting
on?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we can't act on it
unless, unless it's final. We, we need final action by
the state court, don't we?
MS. BONNER: Well, except --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How can it be final action
and yet still be pending?
MS. BONNER: To utilize the word "final"
there would be -- we can use the word "final" after a
jury determination and that in one effect, in one sense,
is final. And when Florida is done it's final in some
sense. But it's not final under 2104 because this Court
can modify it, can remand it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's final as far as the
application for state review is concerned.
MS. BONNER: There -- it is the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is the text that
we're dealing with here.
MS. BONNER: Yes. It is the application for
state review which comes before this Court. We're
asking you to review the lower court's rulings on the
application.
JUSTICE BREYER: I take it you're talking
about language, if I followed it, in 2244(d)(2).
MS. BONNER: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE BREYER: And it tolled the statute
while the "properly filed application for state
post-conviction or other collateral review is pending."
So the question is during the 90 days after they said no
to you in the state court and you had a chance to file
the writ, is that application pending? And you say yes,
that application is pending, that application is pending
and subject to various motions, such as a motion or a
petition for certiorari.
MS. BONNER: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE BREYER: But it is pending.
MS. BONNER: Yes, sir that is --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's where we are in this
argument.
MS. BONNER: That is exactly our position.
JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you.
MS. BONNER: That this application is
pending.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, the other
way to read the language is that the state application
is final -- otherwise you couldn't file the Federal
petition for certiorari, and that petition may affect
what happens with your application for state relief, but
the state application itself is final and over.
MS. BONNER: In that sense it is not final
in that it can be altered and that this Court can
order --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it has to be
final before you can file a petition for cert.
MS. BONNER: Yes, sir. It's the vagaries of
the use of the language --
JUSTICE BREYER: Does it say that? I would
have thought it said that there has to be a final
judgment of the lower court, and the final judgment of
the state court concerns that application which is still
pending and will continue to be pending at least for 90
days in your view.
MS. BONNER: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: So it doesn't require a
final state application. It requires a final judgment
about the state application.
MS. BONNER: Yes, that's exactly true, sir.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what about the
argument raised by your friend that exhaustion doesn't
require filing a petition for certiorari, that the state
procedures are considered fully exhausted upon the final
decision in the state court and that it makes sense to
treat this, this 2244, in a parallel way with respect to
the exhaustion requirement?
MS. BONNER: Well, Your Honor, first of all,
it would require this Court to substitute the word
"exhaustion" for the word "pending" in the statute.
There is no reason to believe and there is much reason
not to believe that Congress intended exhaustion has a
concept which should be read into this particular
context in which we're dealing. In point of fact, in
the 1995 proposal for habeas reform the word
"exhaustion" was in there. It was taken out in 1996.
Unfortunately, the Congressional history and the
speeches on the floor, etcetera, are not really
illuminating, except the concept of exhaustion
apparently the legislature, the Congress, felt would be
subject to interpretation differently in different
states.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do you know what
is pending with respect to when the state defendant,
movant, doesn't file a petition for certiorari? Is
that --
MS. BONNER: Well, I believe.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is the state
post-conviction application still pending on the 90th
day?
MS. BONNER: I believe it is, Your Honor,
and I think the logic that this Court has used in the
context of 2255's obtains as well, and it -- it is
pending because the reason that we have 90 days -- it's
an unusual amount of time that we have to come to ask
this Court for relief. And I believe that part of that
time and part of the reason for the existence of that is
that we can contemplate whether we should be filing a
petition for certiorari.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, anybody who
wants the additional time -- this law was passed to
prevent people from delaying. But anybody who wanted to
delay would then have to file a cert petition, I assume?
MS. BONNER: I would suggest to you, Your
Honor, that it should be -- this should be construed the
same way that the finality of a state conviction, the
finality of a Federal conviction, and the finality of a
2255 are determined, and that is at the time that either
this Court has dealt with certiorari by denying or
granting it or that 90 days has, has been --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if you filed --
so you say you get 90 days whether you file or not?
MS. BONNER: Yes, I do, sir.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if you want the
additional time that it takes for an opposition, for
waiver of response, for this court to dispose of it,
then you have to file a petition for cert?
MS. BONNER: I don't -- that is not my
position, Your Honor. I believe that the 90 days should
obtain no matter what so that we'll have a universal
rule.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MS. BONNER: -- that practitioners will not
be making this error because they will be acting in
concert --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the Chief's point is
that if a petition is in fact found it will end up being
more than 90 days because then you would have, in
addition to the 90 days you'd have to file the cert
petition, the time it takes for this Court to dispose of
the petition, and the statute of limitations would be
tolled throughout that entire period, not just a fixed
90 days.
MS. BONNER: That is true, ma'am.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you -- does your
argument mean that a defendant who wanted to file within
the 90 days, wanted to file in the district court,
wanted to file the habeas application in the district
court within the 90 days, couldn't do so because it
would be premature because the, the state application is
still pending?
MS. BONNER: I believe that the way that we
have been seeing the opinions come from this Court and
from the various courts around the country are that
there seems to be a favorable disposition to protective
2254, 2255 petitions. I agree with the premise of Your
Honor's question that it would be pending and it would
be pending here and therefore, you should not go to
district court and file a 2254. Now whether you can and
you can do it in a protective fashion is another entire
issue which isn't really raised here because he did seek
certiorari review.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you read the tolling
provision in 2263(B) the same way as you read the
tolling provision that's before us?
MS. BONNER: No. Certainly I do not. And
the state really did not analogize to 2263 as I believe
perhaps they should have analogized to it. 2263 of
course is the opt-in provision which moves things along
on an even quicker track than a one year, and you have
180 days to file, and the Congress was absolutely clear
and this was enacted at the same time that the
provisions at issue were enacted, that it was 180 days
after final state court affirmance and you had to, you
had to file. That's it.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think Congress really
wanted to have two different, entirely different tolling
concepts in these provisions?
MS. BONNER: I think they did, and one of
the reasons that I believe that they did, number one was
to achieve their goal of moving things faster if the
states were able to guarantee counsel, and the second is
that they told, as well, in 2263(B) the main difference
between 2263(A) and (B)(1) is that the time when you're
getting your certiorari petition ready for this Court
under the opt-in provision is not tolled. But the time
when this Court is considering the post-conviction
certiorari request is tolled. It's tolled clearly by
statute. I cannot presume and would not presume that
what Congress did was write these in numerical order and
when it got to 2263 come up with a new and exciting
idea, and then not go back to 2254 and 2244 to change
the language there.
I think Congress meant something different.
And what it meant was the trigger time, the time that
was going to be elapsing between the petition, between
your final decision and when you could go to certiorari.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You know, what about
2244(D)(1)(a) where Congress referred expressly to the
time for seeking direct review or the expiration of the
time for seeking such review? Your reading of D(2) is
that that's what they meant when they said the state
application was pending. The state application or the
time for seeking review of the state application, and in
-- just in just a few sections above that they expressly
said that shouldn't we read pending in a different,
different direction?
MS. BONNER: Well, the distinction, I have
at least two things to say about that. The distinction
between the two sections, that would be (D)(1)(a) and
(D)(2), one is dealing with one thing, a judgment which
has reached finality and it is determining when that
judgment is final. They would have had to rewrite the
tolling provision because it is not speaking about a
judgment. It is speaking about an application which is
a process. And the second thing is that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they would
have just said during the time of the application for
state post-conviction, or the expiration of the time for
seeking review of it.
MS. BONNER: I believe that Congress is
presumed to have read, written its laws knowing the
history of interpretation of this Court. And pending
has a very long tradition and this Court's role in the
state-Federal continuum obviously is of well defined 200
plus-year-old role, and the part of that role is that
you as this Court are the final arbiters and the only
true people who can make the decision about what the
Federal Constitution says.
The state would have you read this as if it
says application for state post-conviction relief is
pending in the state court. I would be hesitant to
rewrite the statute since Congress did not invite me to
do so as the state has actually done by saying, pending
in the, in the state court. And that is not the concept
that we have lived with for 200 years or 200- plus
years. Pending means until it is, cannot be any longer
acted upon, and it is clear here, you as this Court can
upon it.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think the final, the
judgment in the criminal case is still pending because
it can be acted upon?
MS. BONNER: Not the judgment in the
criminal case, but I would suggest that the judgment in
the 22 -- I mean the 385.1 procedures in Florida which
would be that post-conviction application because that's
where we are. We have reached finality on the, after
this Court has had, after we have either come to this
Court for certiorari or the 90 days is exhausted.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you saying, are you
arguing that there, during this period, there is an
application for state relief pending in the state courts
or that there is an application for state relief pending
in this Court?
MS. BONNER: I am saying that the
application in state court is yet pending when it is
here, because that court can be ordered by --
JUSTICE ALITO: Where is it pending?
MS. BONNER: -- this Court to act upon it.
JUSTICE ALITO: Where is it pending?
MS. BONNER: It is pending still in state
court because this Court can order that court.
JUSTICE GINSBERG: I thought your argument
on brief was that it is pending here and the statute
says pending. It doesn't say pending, as your statute,
you compared it with says. That pending, the
application is pending someplace. Where is it pending?
Not in the state court anymore. They have reached their
final judgment, but it's still pending in your case here
because you filed a petition for cert.
MS. BONNER: Yes, ma'am. It just is, also,
I -- there is some case law which speaks to the fact
that it remains pending or unsettled or unsure or
unfinal when a court can order another court to act on
it.
JUSTICE SOUTER: In the same sense that it
is pending after the trial court has acted but before
the defendant or the petitioner decides whether he wants
a state appeal.
MS. BONNER: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I don't know where it's
pending. Whether it's still pending in the state trial
court or in the state appeals court. But nobody denies
that it's pending. And I understood your argument to
be, whatever mending means there, pending means here
because there is no modifier that would limit the same
-- the same construction.
MS. BONNER: Yes. That is -- that is so,
sir.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But in what sense is
it an application for state post-conviction review when
it's pending before us? We are considering a claim that
the state erroneously decided a Federal question --
MR. BONNER: You are --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- but it's not an
application, it's an application for our review, not
state post-conviction review.
MS. BONNER: It began as a complaint. This
is, analytically, everyone seems to have a little bit of
pause because of exactly the context of your, of your
comment, of your question. But there is only one
lawsuit, complaint, whatever you wish to call it, which
we are dealing with, and that is the one that seeks
post-conviction relief in Florida. If you're
unsuccessful there, you go to the Florida Supreme Court
and that same application is what we come to this Court
on. There is nothing else out there. The state seems
to tell us, or suggest to us that it's some kind of an
independent state -- uh, Federal action.
JUSTICE ALITO: It's a Federal writ, isn't
it? It's an application for a Federal writ. It's not
an appeal in state criminal -- state case.
MS. BONNER: But it comes under this Court's
appellate jurisdiction versus its original jurisdiction
for writs of certiorari.
JUSTICE SOUTER: If you succeed you're going
to get an order from this Court to the state court say,
saying, go back in this state proceeding that has been
begun, and do it right. So the focus of it is still the
state proceeding even though we may correct it under
appellate jurisdiction.
MS. BONNER: Yes, sir. The state brings
forward an argument that this certiorari before this
Court is not a part of, not an integral part of and in
fact not any part of the state process. I believe they
come to that conclusion because they insert what they
wish the statute said, rather than what the statute
actually says, and we are attempting as best we can to
interpret what Congress did not, what you wish it did.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you have any, I
suppose this, we ought to know better, but how long the
average disposition time is for a petition for
certiorari in a case like this?
MS. BONNER: I believe it's like 44 days if
you don't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. From the time
of, I suppose the pertinent question would be from the
time of final state, final state judgment, eventual
filing for petition for cert, opposition, waiver, our
disposition? Presumably, probably five or six months?
MS. BONNER: It's not usually that long.
This Court is very efficient with that. And that's one
of the points --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why don't you
take, let's just if say you take 90 days, and you get --
MS. BONNER: You get 42 or so.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you get a two
month extension.
MS. BONNER: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then you get another
month for the opposition depending on what circuit
you're from for the extension. Get another month for
the opposition, at least two months, month and a half,
for us to dispose of it. It probably comes out to about
six months.
MS. BONNER: It could, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now I guess -- my
question is, in a law that imposed a one-year statute of
limitation, is this an implicit additional, I realize
it's a question begging to some extent, but implicitly
an additional six-month period would strike me as odd.
MS. BONNER: Well, Your Honor, it is not a
one-year statute of limitations per se. That may be
what looks good on paper with the writing of the statute
and the expressing of the statute to the public, that
one year is what's going to happen. But when one takes
into account the exhaustion requirement and takes that
time out, we are still not talking about a 365-day
process.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask on that,
Ms. Bonner, what typically in Florida is the time
elapsed between the conclusion of the criminal
proceeding and the conclusion of the state collateral
relief?
MS. BONNER: It's quite a while. Your
Honor. I wouldn't know the average.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But it's more than six
months, I assume.
MS. BONNER: It's a long time, Your Honor.
And --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Two, three, four, five
years.
MS. BONNER: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And all that time, the
statute has been tolled?
MS. BONNER: Exactly, till it's -- that's
why I don't look at exactly --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The question is whether
there may be another six months added on to that five or
six-year period.
MS. BONNER: Yes, sir. And one of the
important things here is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the reason
that's tolled is because it's designed to encourage the
exhaustion of the state procedures. This additional
period is when it's pending, not before the state but
before a Federal court.
MS. BONNER: But it's the state petition
which is pending for your review. And one of the things
I want to point out is that the 90 days, when they
passed habeas reform, they were not speaking about 30
days, 20 days, 60 days, 90 days or even the six months
that Your Honor posits. It was 10 years, 12 years, 14
years. And that was I think the major impetus to
encourage the Congress to put the 365 day on there.
This Court has complete control over the
certiorari process. You know, being lawyers we always
do file at the last minute, but of course it's this
Court's rules which gives us the 90 days versus another
period of time. It is, the petition for certiorari is
not like a notice of appeal, because it's not just a
one-page document that's laid out in the Federal
statutes for us to do. It's an application to, it's an
application for review and it is, it takes some time to
fashion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Any -- any
statistics on how many petitions for cert from state
post-conviction collateral review are granted? In other
words, if we are talking about an additional six months
in every case, how many of those are actually granted?
MS. BONNER: I don't know how many are
granted, Your Honor, but one thing that struck me as I
was reading through these cases is that many are granted
to the state. And of course, when the state goes to
certiorari from post-conviction, from a post-conviction
loss on its side, then the whole process is turned on
its head, and many, many times this Court has granted
certiorari to the state. And that is another problem
that happens with this tolling if you read pending the
way the state wants you to read pending, because what do
we do then? What do people do?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but if the state
is petitioning for cert it means you've won.
MS. BONNER: It means you've won.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So presumably you're
not looking forward to further --
MS. BONNER: No. But what happens to the
time? How do you count that time if you lose here?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose you'd have to
file a protective petition with the district court
saying we won but we might still lose.
MS. BONNER: I guess. And - you know, a
protective -- to litigants, protective and to district
court judges, I believe and state court judges,
protective petitions are kind of anathema, because since
you don't know what you're going to raise -- and in the
2254 you have more of an idea, certainly, because you're
limited in many instances if not all instances to those
things which were exhausted -- but obviously there are
new claims that are brought up because there would not
be a stay and abey. There would not even be a request
for stay and abey if there were things that the Federal
courts find.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Assuming you make
the same argument you make on questions 2 and 3 about
the availability of equitable tolling.
MS. BONNER: I'm sorry. I didn't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would be very
surprised if the court found you were out of time
because the state had filed a petition for certiorari.
MS. BONNER: I'd be surprised --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And have it granted.
MS. BONNER: I'd be surprised too, but I've
practiced a long time and I've seen some very odd things
happen in courts and, both a stay and abey, and the
other procedures that have been discussed by this Court
have not been handed down as mandates to the lower court
to require the lower court to rule in a certain way, or
to absolutely stay, or to entertain protective motions
and then permit those protective motions to be
supplemented at a time later. If Your Honors do not
mind, I will reserve some time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Kise.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER M. KISE
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. KISE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court: Petitioner's case amounts to no more
than a disagreement with AEDPA's recognized policies and
procedures, and an improper attempt to convert ignorance
of settled law into an extraordinary circumstance
warranting equitable relief. AEDPA's plain language and
recognized purpose is established, that tolling does not
extend to the post-conviction certiorari process.
Additionally, ignorance of settled law whether by an
incarcerated pro se petitioner, by private counsel, or
by appointed counsel is not an extraordinary
circumstance and does not excuse prompt filing.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Kise, can I ask you
what your view in this matter would be if the Court
grants certiorari, would the application be pending
during the period that the case is under advisement in
this Court?
MR. KISE: No, Your Honor. And I'm assuming
your question is asking me, grant certiorari based on an
application filed by the petitioner.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Either way.
MR. KISE: Well, in both circumstances the
answer would be no, and in both circumstances I think
the relief that would be accorded --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask a second
question. Suppose it were reversed, we send it back for
further proceedings in the state trial court, would you
say that it's still not pending during the further
proceedings?
MR. KISE: It may be pending in state court
during the further proceedings, but it's not pending
during the time that it is at this Court, because this
Court has not --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So it started pending
again after an interruption, is that the way it would
be?
MR. KISE: Based on equitable principles, I
think that would be the interpretation, yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Forget about equitable
principles, statutory principles. Is there a lack of
continuity, where you could have it pending for a period
of a couple years and then an interruption, and then it
can resume pending after the interruption?
MR. KISE: You're using the phraseology
interruption, and I would, would --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, period when it's not
pending followed by a period when it begins to pend.
MR. KISE: In that unusual circumstance,
Your Honor, I think principles of equitable tolling
would apply to keep the petitioner's ability to file.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But there would be no
statutory right in your view, it would depend on the
equitable considerations?
MR. KISE: I believe that's correct, Your
Honor, because statutory pending contemplates a
finality, it contemplates -- and I think that this is,
it is one of the fundamental problems, I believe, with
petitioner's construction, is this ignoring of not only
the plain language of the statute but what this Court
has said about this statute, about 2244(d)(2). In
Duncan this Court said that state, the word state
modifies both post-conviction and other collateral
review, and established that we are talking about a
state application.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it doesn't say state
pending or pending in state court, and what I want to
do is go back and ask a question somewhat along the
lines that Justice Stevens asked. Is the application
pending in the period between the disposition of the
petition by the state trial court and the determination
by the petitioner whether or not to go forward for state
appellate relief?
MR. KISE: Yes, Your Honor, I believe it is,
and I believe that's what this Court said --
JUSTICE SOUTER: By the same token, why
isn't it pending between the final disposition by the
state appellate court and the determination to seek cert
here?
MR. KISE: Well, I have two answers to that,
Your Honor. First would be, that's inconsistent with
the language utilized by this Court in Carey where the
Court defined pending as until final resolution through
the state's post-conviction --
JUSTICE BREYER: That was the issue in that
case. This issue wasn't in that case.
MR. KISE: Correct, Your Honor, but the
language utilized nevertheless --
JUSTICE BREYER: I can't when I write
something, I don't think I or anyone else can, if it
happens to be a state case, refrain from using the word
state. I wouldn't say there is an implication in
writing an opinion that it doesn't mean Federal as well.
As least I can't find that written in the opinion
anywhere.
MR. KISE: Fair enough, Your Honor. Then
with respect to the second part of my answer to your
question, Justice Souter, that it cannot be both final
for 1257 purposes and pending --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But why isn't your sister's
answer to that adequate? It is the state judgment that
is final, but action on the petition is not yet final
until it has gone through the period allowed for final
review by this Court.
MR. KISE: I would, I would respectfully
disagree with that, with that nondistinction, if you
will, Your Honor, in the sense that the application --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So you're distinguishing
between a state judgment and an application upon which
further, further proceedings can be had. Why is that a
nondistinction?
MR. KISE: Because I would, I would disagree
with the notion that further proceedings could be had on
that application. The basis for this Court's certiorari
of jurisdiction is that it is subject to no further
review or correction in any state.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Let's assume that the, the
petition for cert is granted and this Court grants
relief. The relief as I understand it is going to
consist of a remand to the state court saying you did
something wrong on this application before, go back and
do it over again and do it right. It's the -- it is the
state application which is going to be the subject of it
and that therefore, it is the state application that
necessarily is the subject of the cert petition.
MR. KISE: I would say, Your Honor, that the
state application may be the subject matter of what you
are looking at from a subject matter standpoint, but
what the Court is ruling on is the petition for
certiorari, which was a Federal court ruling on --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's a petition for
certiorari to review action taken on a state petition,
just as at the state level, whatever may be the, the
nomenclature for filing an appeal from the state trial
court to the state appellate court, is an application
which relates entirely to the original application for
relief that was filed in the state trial court. It
seems to me the two situations are exactly parallel.
MR. KISE: And I would respectfully
disagree, Your Honor, because I don't see how it can be
final for 1257 purposes and still pending for purposes
of the statute.
JUSTICE GINSBERG: But that -- that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's the application
that is not subject to review. We review the state
court judgment, not the state application, correct?
MR. KISE: In this case, Your Honor, the
application is the state court. I mean, the judgment is
what is being reviewed, and it is a final judgment in
the application. The Florida Supreme Court in this case
has no power at all once they have issued the mandate to
go back and modify, to correct it six months later. If
the Florida Supreme Court decided, you know, we made a
mistake in that application, they don't have the power
sua sponte to correct it. It is final. It is over.
The state's province has been completed.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But they would correct it
if we told them to.
MR. KISE: In that circumstance, yes, Your
Honor, certainly they would in a circumstance, in the
very unusual circumstance where this Court were to
accept certiorari and then subsequent to the acceptance
of certiorari, then reverse the ruling.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And when it got back in
the state supreme court, they would still be working on
the application that had been pending until the end of
the proceedings down there, and then suddenly came back
to life after we sent it back.
MR. PECK: Yes, Your Honor, but that is,
again, the extraordinary circumstance. And that I think
points out the, one of the flaws in petitioner's
argument, and that is that that's making the exception
the rule, that clearly Congress did not intend to add
what I believe Chief Justice Roberts alluded to earlier,
an extra three months, an extra six months.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think what you're saying,
though, is when you have ambiguous language, a sensible
rule is not a rule, it has to have a lot of exceptions
to make sense. Surely that's a sound principle, isn't
it?
MR. KISE: Yes, Your Honor. And I don't
think that this would be a lot of exceptions. I think
this would be, the only exception would be, to the rule
that we are advocating would be in the unusual
circumstance, the one in 5,000 cases, the one in 1,000
cases, the exceptional case where this Court actually
grants certiorari, those cases are exceptional in and of
themselves.
JUSTICE BREYER: Those are the most likely
where people are going to get mixed up. I mean, I'm not
following -- I think I think this argument about the
word is metaphysical, you know, and I can make wonderful
arguments, and you have made wonderful arguments on both
sides of this. I just can't get a clear answer. So if
I were right about that and there is no clear answer
from the language, then the thing, I'd like to go back
to Justice Stevens' question, because it seems to me
that that puts my greatest concern, my greatest concerns
are practical. If we take your position, we have words
right next to each other, near each other in the same
statutory provision, meaning different things. And I've
learned out of my own experience perhaps, judges and
lawyers are not always geniuses and they get mixed up.
And they will get mixed up all the time, and when they
get mixed up, people will lose rights that they have.
The second concern of Justice Stevens, which
is what happens in the case, and those are the ones who
intuitively are going to cause the problem. Because on
a rare occasion, the state or the prisoner has a very
good Supreme Court case. And that's going to be the
case where he forgets to file in the Federal court
because he thinks this thing isn't over, and lo and
behold, the Court grants it. And now what happens? On
your interpretation, I just see a mess, and on the other
interpretation, it seems to work out fine. So those, I
would say are the two practical problems, and anything
you would like to say about that, I'd like to listen to.
MR. KISE: Thank you, Justice Breyer, and I
would respectfully answer your question I think in three
ways. First, drawing a distinction between when the
state petitions for certiorari and when the habeas
petitioner petitions for certiorari. Under both
circumstances, equitable principles would apply, but
they would apply in I think different ways. But in
either circumstance, the ability of the petitioner to
subsequently seek habeas review would be protected. And
so what we are advocating is not making those
exceptional cases the rule. In a case where the state
petitions for certiorari there isn't an ability, there
is no way to even file a protective habeas because there
is nothing to file. You've won, the habeas petitioner
has won in the court below. There is no cause of
action. There isn't a basis upon which to file a
Federal habeas claim, so even a protective one would be,
it wouldn't be premature, it would be effectively
nonexistent. So from an equitable standpoint, the
extraordinary circumstance which the courts have
recognized, the circuits have recognized that the test
for equitable circumstance is, the extraordinary
circumstance would be this Court accepting certiorari.
And then the exercise of diligence on the
part of the petitioner is if the petitioner did
everything he or she could under that circumstance,
because there would be no way for that petitioner to
file for a Federal habeas review because there would be
no basis for it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I ask -- it seems very
strange to me. I can understand protective filings when
you've lost, but it seems to me a very strange
protective filing. When you've won in state court and
the government has taken certiorari, can you file, file
in Federal district court? What do you say? What are
you complaining about?
MR. KISE: Exactly my point, Your Honor.
You cannot.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. It's their point. I
don't see how it's your point. How can you cover
yourself? I mean, if we come out your way, how -- how
--
MR. KISE: There isn't a need to cover us
up, Your Honor, because you've won in state court.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Provided equitable --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're worried about
winning in the Supreme Court.
MR. KISE: In the one in 1,000 or one in
5,000 cases, equitable principles would then apply. The
distinction may not be clear between statutory tolling,
what the statute actually provides for, and equitable
tolling, equitable principles that have been applied by
the court.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're asking us to
say that the Congress has written a statute which
doesn't take account that the state might sometimes file
a petition for certiorari that would be granted. And
you say oh, that's so rare, that's so extraordinary. It
happens. It's part of the system.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would you advise a client
that way? Would you advise a client that way?
MR. KISE: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You've won here and the
state is taking certiorari to the Supreme Court. Don't
worry about making a protective filing in the district
court because, you know, if by chance the Supreme Court
reverses, equitable tolling will apply. You know, you
roll the dice with equity.
MR. KISE: I don't think there would be -- I
think it would be ill advised to, to direct a petitioner
to file in Federal court under those circumstances
because there would be nothing to file. What would be
the complaint?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I agree.
MR. KISE: There would be absolutely nothing
to file.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The irony of your position
is that it has those harshest consequences in those rare
cases where there was a denial of constitutional right.
MR. KISE: Your Honor, I would respectfully
disagree that it has its harshest consequences, because
that's where the equitable tolling principles would in
fact apply.
JUSTICE GINSBERG: Why do you need equitable
tolling? Why can't you use, why isn't it most sensible
to use the model when -- for the time clock on direct
appeal, say there has been a conviction affirmed by the
highest court of the state, when does the time, when
does that judgment -- it's a final judgment if you seek
cert, right? But the time clock, the one year doesn't
begin to run until after the 90 days has elapsed; isn't
that right?
MR. KISE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So why shouldn't it be
the same way for collateral review as it is for direct
review? Direct review, everyone agrees that you get the
state final judgment. But then you have 90 days and
nothing starts until that 90 days is up or, if cert is
granted, until the cert process is done. Why shouldn't
it be just the same for collateral review?
MR. KISE: I would say it's different, Your
Honor, respectfully, for two reasons: One, because this
Court has said that direct review is different in
numerous cases. And two, because the statute makes that
distinction. Congress in (d)(1)(A) utilized that very
specific language that included the, the certiorari
period and in (d)(2) did not use that language, and it
is the absence of that language that indicates that
tolling is only to apply while a petitioner is
exhausting relief, state relief.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well that means, that
means that if a petitioner who has had his state
application for collateral relief denied wants to
petition this Court, but doesn't want to lose out on the
possibility of seeking Federal habeas, that prisoner has
to do two things at the same time: One, prepare a
petition for cert; and the other is to prepare, prepare
a complaint to file in a Federal district court. That's
a lot to put on a person, particularly the one who isn't
represented.
MR. KISE: Well, Your Honor, I would say
that in many circumstances that would be the case, but
not always the case. It depends on how much time is
left on the Federal statute of limitations, how much
time is remaining, how long did it take to get through
the state post-conviction process. How timely was the
filing in the state post conviction process. And how
much time is remaining, assuming for what was
discussed --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Here there were 31 days,
right?
MR. KISE: Then they would need to file --
yes, Your Honor, and they would need to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They'd have to file a
Federal court complaint and a cert petition within the
31 days.
MR. KISE: Yes, Your Honor. Yes, Your
Honor, because the amount of time that would elapse
before this Court were to rule on the cert petition
would consume that 31 days. And I don't think that's
inconsistent with what Congress intended here because
what Congress intended by this provision was to provide
petitioner -- well, what this Court said in Duncan, what
this Court has recognized, is that the scheme that has
been put together here by Congress is one which
encourages petitioners first to file and exhaust their
state remedies, recognizing and giving deference to the
principles of comity, and then second to file, once
they're done with their state process, once they've
completed the state process and exhausted their state
remedies, to file their Federal habeas, in the words of
this Court in Duncan, "as soon as possible."
And the anomaly that would be created by
petitioner's construction would be it would be the only
time under all of AEDPA where a petitioner could file in
Federal district court but isn't required to file. And
so I would submit to this Court that it cannot be both
exhausted and pending at the same time. It would not
fit within the scheme that this Court has already
determined the structure of (d)(2) is designed to
accomplish.
The principle is that you are to, as a
habeas petitioner, go quickly to state court, and we're
going to give state courts the first opportunity at
these Federal constitutional questions. And yes,
Justice Stevens, it may take some time. It may take
several years in Federal -- in state court, before they
accomplish that purpose. But that's the state's issue
because it's the state's judgment and the state is
taking its time and it shouldn't be -- and this is what
Congress recognized I think in (d)(2) -- that, that,
that the petitioner should not be penalized for that
time. That's why it was tolled.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it, is it clear that he
can go to district -- I mean, I'm not familiar with how
these things work. Is it possible that when there is an
appeal or certiorari pending here there can be
proceeding in district court a habeas action on the
same, on the same matter that we are considering on
certiorari?
MR. KISE: Yes, Your Honor, I believe there
can. I believe, there is, in fact --
JUSTICE SCALIA: District courts do that? I
mean, they would be considering the same, the same
issues we are, I suppose?
MR. KISE: Well, I don't know that they
would be considering the exact same issues, Your Honor.
And there are many things that can be done -- petitioner
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're sure that happens,
that while cert is pending here there is a habeas
proceeding ongoing in district court?
MR. KISE: Well, I certainly hope that in
the 10 of the 11 circuits that have agreed with
Florida's position here that that is happening, because
if not then they are at risk, depending on how --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wouldn't a district judge
who knows that there's a cert petition pending just say:
Well, I'll wait; this petition will be held pending the
Supreme Court's disposition of cert.
MR. KISE: I would respectfully say to Your
Honor that it's not an automatic stay. I mean, perhaps
there would be a stay at some point. But there are
things that can be accomplished in Federal court before
the undertaking of the review. There is the Rule 4
screening process in habeas. There is the initial
review by the district court to see if the filing itself
meets the procedural requirements. There is the asking
for an answer by the state. There is discovery that can
take place.
All of this can take place while the cert
petition is pending before the Federal district
undertakes any review of the merits. Now, if there gets
to be this juxtaposition where it looks like there is
going to be a conflict between the Federal district's
court's review of the substantive merits and that is
going to conflict with this Court's certiorari review,
well, then I think a stay would be implemented.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'll accept your
view as being the personal experience. I'm rather
surprised that district courts would go through all of
these preliminary steps when the case is on cert and
they may not have to.
MR. KISE: Well, they may not have to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure if I would
tell the district courts that's what they ought to do,
is a wise expenditure of resources. I'll think about
that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I mean, it sort of
depends on how often cert is going to be granted,
doesn't it? If you're a district court and you have
hundreds of these habeas petitions being filed, you can
either hold of them whenever a cert petition is filed,
one in one thousand or whatever the number is, because
they might be granted. I think you'd probably take your
chances depending on the petition. If it looks serious
and there's a petition pending you don't have to
proceed. If it's frivolous perhaps you can proceed.
MR. KISE: I think that's exactly right,
Your Honor. I think that's really the point, and you've
obviously articulated it better than I did in my
previous answer. But that's exactly right, that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But isn't it true the real
problem with the capital cases? The state's interest in
getting things moving is the strongest in the capital
cases, I think.
MR. KISE: Absolutely, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: In the non-capital cases
there is an interest in promptness, but the longer the
guy stays in jail is not going to prejudice the state.
But you do want to get your death cases terminated as
soon as you can. And what we're really talking about as
I understand it is whether in most death cases we'll add
on a period of six, eight, nine months to the total
period. And in most of those death cases, which is a
limited number -- I don't know, you have a couple
hundred people I suppose in death row -- in those cases
it's going to be seven, eight, nine years anyway.
MR. KISE: Well, it may be that long. It
may be a shorter period. But I think what we need to
look at is not what we would think would be the
preferred time frame, but what Congress said was the
preferred time frame. And Congress is saying that it's
one year, and the only time it's tolled is when the
petitioner is doing what it should be doing to exhaust
state remedies. That's again what this Court said in
Duncan about describing this entire structure.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's if you're formally
right on the metaphysical question. But if you're not,
now thinking you just gave a response to the Chief
Justice that said, well, really the Federal district
judge when he gets these things just has to look at them
and then he figures out whether he is going to stay it
or whether he's going to proceed on some issues or
whether he is going to do something else.
And that's what you thought was fairly easy.
You have the experience there and I just wonder how easy
it is. I mean, why wouldn't it be easy? Because I
guess before doing anything the judge has to know what
this thing is about. And that's where it seems to me to
take the time of a district judge. They have many, many
petitions. Sometimes they are well organized, sometimes
not. He sends them to a magistrate possibly. The
magistrate has a lot to do, and the time consumed is the
time finding out what is this case about. Is that fair
characterization or not? How easy is it?
MR. KISE: I think it's partly fair, Your
Honor. What I would say is the time -- certain time is
consumed just determining whether or not under the Rule
4 screening process, whether or not the petition meets
the formal requirements, whether they've articulated the
claim in the correct way and whether it's worthy of the
state response, if there's discovery that needs to be
had.
I mean, all of these things can be taking
place and in the one in one thousand or perhaps more
than that -- and I don't pretend to have the exact
number or the statistics -- but in the very, very usual
circumstance where cert is actually granted, I think
then a stay could be put in place. And I don't think
it's fair to say, respectfully, that Congress intended
to forestall this entire process while this Court
undertakes certiorari review.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kise, there are two
applications. Your answer to the petitioner is you have
to file in the Federal court within that 31 days. If a
prisoner says, I can't manage a cert petition and a
Federal habeas corpus, it's hard enough for me to get
any assistance, so I'll have to pick one or the other,
isn't the, the reading of an ambiguous statute that
you're proposing going to be an incentive or a
disincentive to filing both, which the prisoner has a
right to do? He is going to have to pick one or the
other if he is in this timeline.
MR. KISE: Well, respectfully, Your Honor --
and I know that that is the petitioner's argument and I
see that you have given me that question, but I don't
know that it is that much of a choice. I mean, I think
that they can file, they can file both in those
circumstances and, and depending on the particular
circumstances -- and this is back to the equitable
tolling principles -- for statutory tolling purposes, I
think the answer is they must file both or they forfeit
the right to one or the other. If they choose not to
file for cert, then they voluntarily if they pass the 90
days forfeited that right; and if they don't file within
the statutory period then they have under AEDPA missed
the statute of limitations deadline.
But I would, I submit to you that it is
possible to do both, and in circumstances where there is
some impediment to them doing just that, if they
exercise diligence, if they are doing everything they
possibly can and it is not possible to file both at the
same time, well, then I think under the facts of the
proper scenario that equitable principles might apply.
But again, to say that Congress built into the system
this automatic time period that's going to be tacked on
to a very short one-year statute of limitations, a
statute of limitations that is designed to really move
things through the system rapidly, is, respectfully, I
don't think the correct interpretation of the language,
and I don't think it is consistent with what this Court
said in Duncan or, with respect to Justice Breyer, what
this Court said in Carey.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me be clear on your
answer to Justice Stevens' earlier question. Where
there is a reversal of the state judgment by, by this
Court, and the case is remanded to the state, you don't
argue that what occurs then is equitable tolling? But
you say that the case is again pending once it goes back
to the state, is that right?
MR. KISE: I think once it's back in the
state system then it would have to be considered
pending, because the statute contemplates that while
it's part of the state process it would be pending.
If the Court has no further questions, thank
you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Kise.
Ms. Bonner, you have four minutes remaining.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARY C. BONNER
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MS. BONNER: Thank you, sir.
I've heard the state over these many years
say that a simple exception will help the defendant and
don't worry, we will not proceed, we'll ask for -- don't
worry, we won't object. Kind of what we're getting here
is, we won't be objecting to a stay if there is a stay
requested. However, they objected to the stay here that
the United States district court entered. In an
exercise of honesty, he said: I'm going to wait for the
Supreme Court to decide what happens in Artuz, whether
they accept cert or not. And they vigorously.
Objected and utilized a good little built of
time litigating it on an interlocutory type appeal.
One of the practical problems is if this
case is in both courts, this one and the United States
district court, where is the record? Is -- It's just
the most practical of things. And also, where is the
lawyer, who is the lawyer?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Records don't have
to -- typically are not filed with the petition for
cert. So the record would be back in the lower court.
MS. BONNER: So that solves that. The --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to be clear, it
is your position that to get -- you think everyone's
entitled to the additional 90 days whether they file or
not.
MS. BONNER: Yes, I do.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To get the
additional time for an opposition that would be
considered here, you have to file the petition for cert.
In other words, if you don't file after the 90th day
it's no longer pending.
MS. BONNER: Absolutely.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So then why
wouldn't the result of your position be that every
person who is denied state post-conviction relief is
going to file a cert position to get the additional
time?
MS. BONNER: Why is my position that they
would not?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wouldn't that lead
to that result? If Congress was concerned that people
were stringing out the time before they seek habeas, one
way to string it out under your reading, but not under
the state's reading, would be to file a petition for
cert.
MS. BONNER: Well, Congress couldn't have
been too concerned about that 90 days because it
certainly permitted the trigger to have the 90 days
included within it, and this Court has allowed the 90
days --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. What's
the trigger?
MS. BONNER: A, 2242(b)(A).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. When they
wanted to include the 90 days, they said the expiration
of the time for seeking review. They did not say that
in (d)(2).
MS. BONNER: They did not say that, but they
said while the application is pending. And the state
did not address for this Court what is pending here if
it's not that application from state court.
JUSTICE ALITO: Does your argument --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess you could also say
that except in capital cases the defendant will not have
an incentive to delay. He wants to get out, right?
MS. BONNER: Of course, of course. And you
know, frankly, I think all of the defendants on death
row --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, if the
defendant had no incentive to delay, why did Congress
think it necessary to impose the statue of limitations?
They did that because they thought people were stringing
out their -- and they were applying for Federal habeas
after too long of a delay.
MS. BONNER: Well strangely enough in this
case I was looking at statistics as to the average
length of time that a case was pending before, between
conviction and the filing of the 2254, and
Mr. Lawrence's petition was filed within days of what
the average was before the AEDPA. That comes up in a
statistical analysis I believe by the Department of
Justice cited to by the state.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Doesn't the title of a
statute indicate the category of cases that Congress was
primarily interested in?
MS. BONNER: Oh yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The death penalty.
MS. BONNER: Oh yes. When they joined
together in anti-terrorism, effective -- the -- just the
word effective was plenty to convey to us what they
actually mean. The other big problem that's not been
addressed is these people in a practical sense do not
have the same lawyer for both proceedings. Many people
who were more than willing to practice in state court
are not willing to practice in Federal court. It's a
more formalized, rigorous endeavor.
And in this case what happened was
Mr. Lawrence had a lawyer who practiced in the state and
obviously must have prepared for him that initial place
holder, if you want to call it, 2254, because it's
typewritten. They cite to a Westlaw site. I don't
think there is any way that anyone can contemplate that
that would be Mr. Lawrence's doing in his own right.
Also, whether it's 90 days or six months as
Your Honor has said, it's always in the control of this
Court. Once the 90 -- this is not a frolic of
unnumbered years. When someone files a petition he
either files it by the time 90 days is over or he is out
of court, or he files it and this Court is quickly
reviewing it after some input from the other side.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Miss Bonner.
MS. BONNER: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:02 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
advisement apparently 8:11 6:13 7:18 behalf 1:16,18
advocating 31:5 15:25 17:8 16:5 17:19 23:22 46:24
51:17 45:15 50:5 47:12 46:23 49:12 8:22 9:2,25
23:15 affect 6:21 1:14 articulated 42:4 17:21 18:5
42:10 affirmance appellate 3:21 44:4 22:15 26:1,4
11:20 17:10,17 26:19 Artuz 47:9 26:20,21 30:20
agree 11:2 35:12 application 3:11 asking 5:20 best 17:24
39:6 14:11,21 15:4 5:18,21 6:1,5,6 assume 9:9 Bonner 1:15 2:3
49:12 6:23 7:9,14,15 assuming 22:25 4:11 5:4,7,15
alluded 30:20 13:11,14 14:2 attempting 7:12,16,24
30:23 44:23 16:17,17 17:2 45:25 10:15,23 11:12
15:23 amounts 23:24 24:12,17 26:11 average 18:3 14:14 15:1,5,7
10:5 analogized 28:10,17,19,20 a.m 1:13 3:2 16:15,19 17:9
27:23
33:4 analytically 29:25 30:12 B 12:5 19:8,17,21,25
16:20 37:1 49:9,11 back 12:13 20:4,7,12,19
19:5,7 31:16 32:15 32:19,20 34:12 45:9 46:13,15 48:13,21 49:3
21:15 40:22 42:5 35:5,21 36:22 47:20 49:8,16,25
48:3,11 44:18 45:11 45:23 based 24:16 50:11,13 51:12
answers 27:1 appointed 24:8 basis 28:10 33:4 Breyer 5:22,25
46:6 certain 23:14 1:17 2:6 23:21 concept 8:4,10 construed 9:11
certiorari 3:14 24:2,9 25:20 concerned 5:14 51:2
4:2,10 30:5,6,7,16 48:16,22 contemplates
46:23 9:15 11:8 12:6 44:12 concert 10:6 16:21
21:3,6,21,24 35:9 37:10 conflict 41:3,5 continuum
15:15,18 29:1,3 30:8,9 cited 50:7 12:15,20 13:17 51:5
18:4 31:8 32:17,18 claim 16:13 33:5 14:4 17:25 convert 24:1
23:24 32:25 33:11,22 44:5 21:1 30:19 convey 50:15
27:7,7 34:20 35:2 claims 22:21 34:18 36:18 conviction 9:12
29:18,21 36:19 39:15,18 clear 11:17 14:9 38:4,5,8 39:9 9:13 35:25
32:3,6,7 41:5 44:16 31:15,16 34:13 42:25 43:1 37:15 50:3
37:10,11 chance 6:4 35:4 39:12 46:8 44:14 45:24 corpus 44:21
43:23 chances 41:24 47:22 48:16,21 49:20 correct 17:16
47:14 change 12:13 clearly 12:9 50:9 26:1 27:8
characterizati... 30:19 Congressional 29:17,23 30:1
43:24 client 34:23,24 8:8 30:3 44:5 46:4
32:24 6:18 7:2,17 collateral 6:2 35:16,19 counsel 12:3
35:17 8:14,19 9:6,17 19:19 21:14 Consequently 23:19 24:7,8
42:7,9 9:20 10:3 26:9 36:8,13 3:13 count 22:9
12:19 13:13 37:1 considerations country 10:25
49:14 16:11,16 18:1 come 9:1 10:24 25:25 couple 25:14
18:7,15,18,21 12:12 14:19 considered 7:20 42:19
15:16 23:19,23 29:15 comity 38:11 39:17,22,25 court 1:1,12 3:9
21:13 30:20 34:9 comment 16:22 consist 28:16 3:14,15,18,19
26:24 43:8 46:21 compared 15:12 consistent 46:5 3:23 4:2,4,13
36:3 47:18,22 48:2 complaining Constitution 4:22,23 5:3,11
37:5 48:8,15 49:1,4 33:24 13:25 5:19 6:4,25 7:8
38:2 49:19 51:11,14 complaint 16:19 constitutional 7:9,21,25 8:23
Chief's 10:7 16:23 35:11 4:14 35:17 9:2,15,22
choice 45:6 37:6,23 39:3 10:11,18,20,24
45:13 choose 45:12 complete 21:2 construction 11:5,20 12:6,8
48:4 chosen 3:16 completed 30:2 16:8 26:5 13:19,23 14:3
CHRISTOPH... 38:13 38:17 14:6,9,19,20
15:2,3,5 D denies 16:4 18:3,11 26:16 elapsing 12:17
d 3:1 13:6,7 denying 9:15 26:23 40:13 emphasis 4:1,15
16:4 36:18,20 38:23 Department distinction 3:21 enacted 11:18
17:1,2,13 39:9 49:7 50:6 13:4,5 32:16 11:19
18:13 day 8:21 21:1 depend 25:24 34:13 36:18 encourage 20:15
21:2,23 48:5 depending distinguishing 21:1
days 6:3 7:11 18:22 40:9 28:4 encourages 38:9
8:25 9:16,18 41:24 45:8 district 10:18,19endeavor 50:21
24:11,14 9:25 10:9,10 depends 37:11 11:5 22:11,14 entered 47:7
25:2,4,5 10:14,18,20 41:18 33:23 35:3 entertain 23:15
11:17,19 14:20 describing 43:5 37:6 38:19 entire 10:13
27:3 18:5,16 20:21 designed 20:15 39:13,16,21 11:6 43:5
28:14 20:23,23,23,23 38:23 46:2 40:5,10,20,25 44:15
29:1 21:5 36:4,10 determination 41:9,14,19 entirely 11:23
36:11 37:18,24 5:9 26:17,24 43:9,19 47:7 29:7
30:7 38:3 44:19 determine 4:5 47:15 entitled 47:24
31:7 45:14 47:24 determined 9:14 district's 41:3 equitable 23:2
33:3 48:22,23,25 38:23 document 4:3 24:3 25:9,11
49:5 50:4 51:4 determining 21:8 25:21,25 32:19
51:8 13:8 44:2 doing 43:3,3,17 33:7,10 34:8
36:1 deadline 45:16 dice 35:6 45:19,20 51:3 34:12,14,15
37:2,6 dealing 5:17 8:5 difference 12:4 drawing 32:16 35:5,20,22
38:2,6,7 13:7 16:24 different 8:12 Duncan 26:8 45:9,23 46:12
dealt 9:15 11:23,23 12:15 38:6,15 43:5 equity 35:6
40:5 death 42:14,16 13:2,3 31:22 46:6 erroneously
41:19 42:18,20 49:17 32:20 36:14,16 D(2) 12:22 16:14
44:15,19 50:12 differently 8:12 D.C 1:8 error 10:5
decide 47:9 diligence 33:12 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3
45:20 E 2:6,9
49:10,11 29:24 dimension 4:14 E 2:1 3:1,1 established 24:4
51:6 decides 15:24 direct 12:21 earlier 30:20 26:10
decision 7:21 35:8,24 36:8,9 46:9 etcetera 8:9
10:25 defendant 8:15 direction 13:3 43:24 everyone's
22:24 10:17 15:24 disagree 28:2,8 effect 5:9 47:23
33:8 47:2 49:14,20 29:11 35:19 effective 50:14 exact 39:25
41:9 defendants disagreement 50:15 44:10
47:14 49:17 23:25 effectively 33:6 exactly 6:14
17:9 defined 13:21 44:6 eight 42:17,21 20:7,8 29:9
28:10 27:4 discussed 23:12 either 9:14 33:25 42:2,5
41:4,5 delay 9:9 49:15 37:17 14:19 24:18 example 4:7
17:8 denied 3:12,15 10:11 18:25 elapsed 19:18 31:8 32:24
37:1 48:10 disposition 11:1 36:4 exceptions
31:3 21:11 5:10,10,11,13 22:7 26:18 39:2 41:3,5,18
47:8 9:13 13:25 13:9,23 14:11 43:1 48:11
20:18 21:8 26:23 27:4,19 friend 7:18 47:11
22:20 29:1 32:7 33:5 29:12,20 30:1 frolic 51:6 33:22
33:16,23 35:9 36:2,10 Ft 1:15 grant 24:16
38:14,19 39:3 9:12,13,13 fundamental 21:16,18,19,23
8:1,3,7,10 41:3 43:9 26:3 further 22:7 34:20 36:12
20:16 44:19,21 49:23 find 22:24 27:15 24:24,25 25:3 41:18,23 44:12
figures 43:11 first 7:24 27:2 28:14 31:8
41:8 8:16 9:9,18,23 39:2 G 3:1 greatest 31:19
10:10,17,18,19 fit 38:22 GARY 1:3 31:19
49:5 21:4 22:11 20:10 getting 12:6 guess 19:3 22:13
33:1,2,4,16,22 Fla 1:15,17 GINSBERG guy 42:13
35:9,10,14 floor 8:9 35:22 H
38:19 44:19 5:10 14:16 36:24 37:18,22 32:17,22 33:1
30:16 filed 6:1 9:17 focus 17:15 gives 21:5 44:21 48:17
34:21 15:16 23:6 followed 5:23 giving 38:10 49:23
29:8 25:19 go 11:4 12:13,18 half 18:24
17:21 files 51:7,8,9 forfeit 45:11 29:23 31:17 23:11
39:20 filing 7:19 9:4 forfeited 45:14 39:1,13 41:9 happened 50:22
44:14 35:3 37:15 formal 44:4 46:13 21:25 22:8
implication 39:6 28:4,13 29:2 16:2 18:2
24:7 43:10,17,19 39:21 40:3,10
9:11,25 48:24 13:11 14:12,14 48:2,8,15 49:1 6:19 7:5 12:14
inconsistent 14:15 15:15 49:4,12,13,19 24:3 26:6 27:3
21:18 27:2 38:4 18:9 27:22 50:7,8,12 27:9 30:23
25:10,21 independent 28:5 29:17,19 51:11,14 31:17 36:19,20
27:2,8 17:5 29:20 36:2,2 juxtaposition 36:21 46:4
28:3,22 indicate 50:9 36:10 39:7 41:2 Lauderdale
30:6 indicates 36:21 46:10 1:15
31:2 initial 40:19 jurisdiction K law 4:9 9:7
34:7 50:24 3:21 17:10,10 keep 25:22 15:18 19:4
36:6,15 input 51:10 17:17 28:11 KENNEDY 24:2,6
insert 17:22 jury 5:9 22:10 34:8,17 Lawrence 1:3
39:19,25 instances 3:23 Justice 3:3,8 4:6 41:7,13 3:4,10 4:14
42:3,10 22:19,19 4:17 5:1,5,13 kind 17:4 22:16 50:23
45:3 51:5 integral 17:20 5:16,22,25 47:4 Lawrence's 50:4
8:12 13:19 18:15,18,21 34:6,11,25 left 37:12
25:7,14,15,17 22:10,25 23:4 39:24 40:6,14 level 29:4
invite 14:4 24:10,18,22 42:22 43:25 life 30:14
19:9 mandates 23:13 42:17 51:4 22:20 42:4 27:18 33:13
45:16 MARY 1:15 2:3 motion 6:7 50:24 34:22 46:18
49:21 2:9 3:6 46:23 motions 6:7 occasion 32:5 particular 8:4
42:19 24:11 28:23,24 movant 8:16 October 1:9 particularly
29:19 31:11 N 38:11,12 46:13 PECK 4:20
19:25 50:16 necessary 49:21 46:1 pending 5:6 6:2
37:13 meaning 31:22 need 5:2 34:6 ongoing 40:5 6:5,6,6,10,17
49:24 means 14:8 16:6 35:22 37:20,21 opinion 27:14 7:10,10 8:1,15
48:6 36:24,25 needs 44:6 opinions 10:24 11:3,4 12:24
12:23 27:9 39:2 14:8,12,23,24
50:1 44:3 22:21 18:10,22,24 15:11,11,12,13
merits 41:1,4 nomenclature opt-in 11:15 16:3,3,5,6,13
metaphysical nondistinction oral 1:11 2:2,5 22:1 24:12,25
43:22 minutes 46:22 42:11 15:8,20 17:13 27:4,20 29:12
47:20 mistake 29:25 notion 28:9 organized 43:20 39:15 40:4,11
modifier 16:7 numerical 12:11 41:14 50:2
modify 3:18 P 22:2 31:11
30:18 months 18:11,24 objected 47:6,11 parallel 7:22 period 10:13
35:3 19:1,24 20:10 objecting 47:5 29:9 14:22 19:7
25:13,18 41:20 43:20 50:23 proceed 42:1,1 p.m 51:16
26:16 phraseology practitioners 43:12 47:3
36:20 25:16 10:4 proceeding Q
pick 44:22 45:1 preferred 42:25 17:14,16 19:19 question 6:3
place 40:23,24 43:1 39:16 40:5 11:3 16:14,22
plenty 50:15 premature 50:18 31:18 32:15
6:8,21,21 point 4:15 8:5 prepared 50:24 36:12 37:14,15 quicker 11:16
8:16 9:5 10:7 20:21 present 3:15 38:12,13 40:19 quickly 39:1
10:8,11 33:25 34:2,3 presented 4:4 44:3,15 46:18 51:9
12:6,17 40:16 42:3 presumably 4:6 prompt 24:9 quite 19:21
18:3,10 points 18:14 18:11 22:6 promptness quote 3:21
21:6 30:17 presume 12:10 42:12
23:6 policies 23:25 12:10 proper 4:9 R
27:23 position 3:20 presumed 13:18 45:23 R 3:1
6:14 9:25 pretend 44:10 properly 6:1 raise 22:17
34:20 31:20 35:15 prevent 9:8 proposal 8:6 raised 4:8,12,13
38:2 40:8 47:23 previous 42:5 proposing 44:24 4:14 7:18 11:7
48:9,11,13 primarily 50:10 protected 32:22 rapidly 46:3
posits 20:24 principle 30:25 protective 11:1 rare 32:5 34:21
47:19 possibility 37:3 38:25 11:6 22:11,14 35:16
50:4 possible 38:15 principles 25:9 22:14,16 23:15 reached 13:8
39:14 45:18,21 25:12,12,21 23:16 33:1,5 14:18 15:14
3:7 45:21 35:20 38:11 provide 38:5 11:9,10 13:2
24:7,17 post 37:15 45:10,23 Provided 34:8 13:18 14:1
32:18,21 post-conviction prisoner 32:5 provides 34:14 21:25 22:1
4:8 6:2 8:20 37:3 44:20,25 province 30:2 reading 12:22
36:22,25 12:8 13:15 private 24:7 provision 11:10 21:19 44:23
39:1 14:2,17 16:12 pro 24:7 11:11,15 12:7 48:18,19
40:1 16:18,25 21:14 probably 18:11 13:10 31:22 ready 12:6
44:18 21:21,21 24:5 18:25 41:23 38:5 real 42:6
26:9 27:5 problem 21:24 provisions 11:19 realize 19:5
25:22 29:22,25 problems 26:4 purpose 24:4 42:15 43:9
30:17 practical 31:20 32:12 47:13 39:6 46:2
45:4 32:12 47:13,16 procedural purposes 27:20 reason 8:2,2,25
22:16 50:20 14:16 20:16 38:8 44:13 36:15
practiced 23:10 23:12 24:1 puts 31:19 REBUTTAL
24:4 respectfully 9:20 10:3 44:3 19:23 20:10,23
38:7 3:25 28:1 12:19 13:13 se 19:9 24:7 21:15 29:23
29:10 32:15 16:11,16 18:1 second 12:3 30:21 42:17
40:14 44:14 19:3 20:14 27:18 32:2 six-month 19:7
43:8 44:6 46:21 47:18,22 45:5 soon 38:15
6:22 9:2 reverse 30:9 role 13:20,22,22 48:17 sought 3:13
reversed 24:23 roll 35:6 seeking 12:21,22 sound 30:25
19:20 reverses 35:5 row 42:20 49:18 12:25 13:16 Souter 15:22
26:19 review 3:14 5:14 rule 10:2 23:14 37:3 49:6 16:2 17:12
29:8 5:19,20 6:2 30:19,24,24 seeks 16:24 26:12,22 27:19
37:1 11:8 12:21,22 31:4 32:24 seen 23:10 27:21 28:4,13
12:25 13:16 38:2 40:18 send 24:23 29:2
46:22 20:20 21:10,14 rules 21:5 sense 5:9,11 13:11 20:22
28:16 29:16 32:22 rulings 5:20 28:3 30:25 speeches 8:9
43:4 40:20 41:1,4,5 S 35:23 28:24 33:7
reviewed 29:20 saying 4:17,20 serious 41:24 starts 36:11
rewrite 13:9 17:14 22:12 seven 42:21 4:13,21,22 5:3
23:14 25:24 28:18 says 13:25 14:2 side 21:22 51:10 7:14,15,19,21
19:13 42:2,5 43:7 SCALIA 4:17 sir 4:20 5:24 6:9 12:23,24,25
44:4 46:14 49:15 30:22 33:18 9:19 16:1,10 14:5,6,23,23
27:18 6:18 7:2,17 scheme 38:7,22 situations 29:9 18:9,9 19:19
statutory 25:12 9:10 14:15 They'd 37:22 25:4 31:25
25:24 26:2 17:4 thing 13:7,12 35:24 36:1,3
23:6 31:22 34:13 supplemented 21:18 31:17 37:4,11,13,16
25:2 45:10,15 23:17 32:8 43:18 38:1,18,21
stay 22:22,23 suppose 18:2,8 things 11:15 39:4,8,11
23:11,15 40:15 22:10 24:23 12:2 13:5 42:25 43:1,2
40:16 41:6 39:23 42:20 20:13,20 22:20 43:19,22,23
43:11 44:13 supreme 1:1,12 22:23 23:10 44:1,1 45:22
29:3 47:5,5,6 3:14 4:22 17:1 31:22 37:4 45:25 47:12
stays 42:13 29:21,24 30:11 39:14 40:1,17 48:3,12,17
30:11 steps 41:10 32:6 34:10 42:8 43:10 49:6 50:2 51:8
Stevens 19:16 35:2,4 40:13 44:8 46:3 timeline 45:2
34:7,19 19:23 20:2,5,9 47:9 47:16 timely 37:14
36:1,10 24:10,18,22 sure 40:3 41:13 think 8:23 11:22 times 21:23
37:14 25:6,11,18,23 Surely 30:25 11:25 12:15 title 50:8
38:10,12 26:15 30:3,10 surprised 23:5,7 14:11 20:25 token 26:22
39:1 31:18 32:2 23:9 41:9 24:20 25:10,21 told 12:4 30:4
40:22 35:15 39:4 system 34:22 26:3 27:11 tolled 5:25 10:13
43:4 42:6,11 46:9 45:24 46:3,16 30:16,22 31:3 12:7,9,9 20:6
46:10,11 50:8,12 31:3,12,12 20:15 39:11
strange 33:19,20 T 32:15,20 35:7 43:2
48:10 strangely 49:25 T 2:1,1 35:8 38:3 39:9 tolling 11:9,11
50:7 strike 19:7 tacked 45:25 41:6,15,23 11:23 13:10
string 48:18 take 5:22 18:16 42:2,3,9,23,24 21:25 23:2
8:13 12:3 49:22 34:19 37:13 45:6,11,22 34:13,15 35:5
strongest 42:8 39:4,4 40:23 46:4,5,15 35:20,23 36:22
42:7 structure 38:23 43:19 51:2 total 42:17
43:5 taken 8:7 29:3 thinking 43:8 track 11:16
subject 4:10 6:7 takes 9:21 10:11 thought 7:7 15:9 treat 7:22
50:1 29:16 19:14 21:15 44:9 26:17 29:5,8
12:10 submitted 51:15 1:17 till 20:7 true 7:16 10:15
15:10,11 51:17 tell 17:4 41:14 time 9:1,3,7,14 13:24 42:6
19:4 subsequent 30:8 terminated 9:21 10:11 Tuesday 1:9
subsequently 42:14 11:18 12:5,7 turned 21:22
26:6,7 32:22 test 33:9 12:16,16,21,22 two 11:23 13:5,6
34:14,18 substantive 41:4 text 5:16 12:25 13:14,15 18:18,24 20:2
37:12 substitute 7:25 thank 6:15 18:3,7,9 19:14 27:1 29:9
45:16 succeed 17:12 23:19 32:14 19:17,25 20:5 32:12 36:15,17
50:9 suddenly 30:13 46:19,21,25 21:6,10 22:9,9 37:4 44:17
view 7:11 24:11 wonder 43:15 1 12:5 13:6 30 20:22
vigorously 31:14 1,000 31:6 34:11 38:3 44:19
word 5:7,8 7:25 10 20:24 40:7 365 21:1
40:7
33:19 W words 3:18 12:02 51:16
wait 40:12 47:8 21:15 31:20 4
27:20
want 9:20 20:21 39:14 180 11:17,19 44 18:5
42:14 50:25 worried 34:9 1996 8:7
8:8 11:23 49:5 worthy 44:5 2 13:7 23:1
38:23 60 20:23
47:7,14 22:1 37:1 27:13 33:6 39:9 49:7
Washington 1:8 writ 3:22 6:5 2006 1:9 9:16,18,25
9:12 10:23 27:10 22 14:16 18:16 20:21,23
30:7 25:7 33:1,15 writs 17:11 12:13 47:24 48:22,23
34:4,24,24 written 13:18 2244(D)(1)(a) 48:24 49:5
36:20 48:18 51:2 wrong 28:17 2244(d)(2) 5:23 90th 8:20 48:5
9:14 11:2
47:11 8:5 39:1 42:15 36:3 43:2 2263 11:13,14
33:2,3,21 34:7 05-8820 1:5 3
