IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 05-998
JUAN RESENDIZ-PONCE :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 10, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
ATMORE L. BAGGOT, ESQ., Apache Junction, Ariz.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ATMORE L. BAGGOT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in United States versus
Resendiz-Ponce.
Mr. Dreeben.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In Neder versus United States, this Court
held that the omission of an offense element from petit
jury instructions can be harmless error, even though
that omission violates the Sixth Amendment right to a
jury trial. Our submission is that the same analysis
applies to the omission of an offense element from a
grand jury's indictment. Such an error violates the
Fifth Amendment, but it is harmless when the petit jury,
having been properly instructed on all of the elements
of the offense, returns a verdict of guilty beyond a
reasonable doubt.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not quite sure if this
works, but at the trial before a petit jury there's an
opportunity for counsel to object. There isn't an
opportunity to object when the grand jury indictment
comes down. Now, I guess you could move to quash.
MR. DREEBEN: That's correct, Justice
Kennedy. In fact, parties do move to dismiss
indictments for failure to allege all of the elements of
the offense. That happened here. The motion was
erroneously denied by the trial judge. The trial judge,
under Ninth Circuit law, under the assumption that the
Ninth Circuit has properly interpreted the law, should
have concluded that this indictment failed to allege the
substantial step that was part of the attempt. And if
the judge had done that, then the Government would have
gotten back to the grand jury and obtained a superseding
indictment.
Instead what the judge did was deny the
motion, finding that the indictment itself was
sufficient, and then instructed the jury on all of the
elements that the Ninth Circuit requires as part of this
offense. And so we have now a petit jury verdict beyond
a reasonable doubt finding that the attempt did involve
a substantial step towards the completion of the
offense.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't the problem that the
motion to quash is going to be made, if counsel is on
his toes, is going to be made at the beginning of the
trial? And we want to induce the court to look very
carefully at it at that point, because if the court is
wrong, somebody has to go through an entire trial as a
result of it. And the way to induce the court to be
very careful at the beginning is to say, this is not
harmless error, and you've got to take this very
seriously and you can't take any chance on the, in
effect, the evidence saving you in harmless error
analysis later.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, first of all, Justice
Souter, motions like this are typically made long in
advance of trial, as this one was. Waiting until the
day of trial is far from the optimum practice.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I'm sure that's
right. But that simply reinforces my point.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think what it
reinforces is that the judge has enough time to look at
it and conscientiously attempt to get the law right
without the need for the court to apply the heavy hand
of automatic reversal.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you concede that the
error would always be harmless if you have a trial
before a petit jury, and all of the elements are
instructed to be found by the jury?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, that is
our position.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That doesn't
necessarily make sense. You can imagine a situation
where the probable cause and the eventual evidence that
supports guilt is adduced after the indictment and the
prosecutor says, you know, we're going to find that
evidence once we get into it, we don't have it now, but
indict anyway without it.
In other words, what's your response to the
situation where there's no probable cause on an element
at the time of the indictment, but that evidence is
later adduced and is a sufficient basis to convict?
MR. DREEBEN: My response, Mr. Chief
Justice, is the same response that this Court gave in
United States versus Mechanik, where it was confronted
with an analogous problem. And that was in that case, a
violation of the rule that allowed two witnesses to
testify at the same time before the grand jury.
And the Court was specifically confronted
with the question: Was this harmless error because the
petit jury has now found guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt? And it answered that question yes. And en route
to that answer, it said, we could logically be persuaded
that what we're supposed to do is compare the evidence
in front of the grand jury to the error and see whether
the error was prejudicially consequential for the grand
jury's decision. But we're not going to do that, the
Court explicitly said in Mechanik, because once there is
a finding of beyond a reasonable doubt, the question of
probable cause is shown a fortiori and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me, you mean you can
never decide this question until after the trial is
completed and you see whether the jury convicts beyond a
reasonable doubt?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Scalia, the
district court should decide this question in advance of
trial when it's properly raised and, if the indictment
is defective, dismiss it. And this Court has recognized
that trial judges don't need incentives of an automatic
reversal rule to get them to comply with the law.
And I want to amend --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did the U.S. Attorney in
this case oppose the motion to quash the indictment?
MR. DREEBEN: In this case?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes. And the Ninth Circuit's
ruling that this indictment was defective was really --
bolt out-of-the-blue might be too strong. But it was an
extension of its prior precedents in a way that wasn't
directly foreseeable. The United States Attorney's
office had every reason to believe, based on language in
prior Ninth Circuit cases, that alleging an attempt to
enter was adequate to allege the offense.
JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Dreeben, this touches on
what troubles me about this. I wonder whether we can
answer the generic question that you presented, whether
the omission of an element of a criminal offense from
the indictment can constitute harmless error, without
considering the nature of the alleged defect here.
I don't know how you can answer -- if you
look at whether the alleged defect here is susceptible
to harmless error analysis, or whether if we were to
agree with you, in fact, it is harmless, how you can
answer those questions without reaching a conclusion
about whether there was any defect in the indictment in
the first place.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Alito --
JUSTICE ALITO: And it doesn't seem to me
that there's any defect in this indictment. It charges
-- it recites the language of the statute, it uses the
word "attempt" which has a very well-settled meaning in
the law. Any lawyer would understand exactly what is
required for an attempt. It sets out the factual basis
of the charge. So I don't know how you would get to
the -- how you can answer the second question without
getting into the first question.
MR. DREEBEN: We did not challenge in our
certiorari petition, which this Court granted, the Ninth
Circuit's holding that in order for an attempt to be
accomplished there needs to be a substantial step, and
in an indictment under section 1326, there needs to be
an allegation of what that substantial step is.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I have the same problem.
It's such a difficult requirement to get a hold of. I
mean, he drives the car, he walks, he breathes. I mean,
all of these things enable him to get into the country.
I just don't understand the basis for the rule.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, it is common law --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: He wasn't forced to go
over. He did it on his own. It seems to me that's --
MR. DREEBEN: Well, that's certainly the
Government's position, Justice Kennedy. But it is well
settled in the common law that attempts require a
substantial step towards the completion. There are
variations that different jurisdictions use. That's the
Model Penal Code formulation. The Ninth Circuit I think
has gone beyond where some other courts have gone, as
Justice Alito was noting, by saying that the indictment
needs to spell out the factual basis for that
substantial step.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What would that be here?
That he drove the car to the border? That he got out of
the car? That he presented a document? What -- if you
could do it over again, what would the indictment say?
MR. DREEBEN: The indictment would have to
say that he attempted to enter the United States and
took a substantial step towards the completion of that
crime, to wit he approached the border and came to the
guard and presented false identifications to the guard
and lied about his intended destination.
JUSTICE ALITO: If you went back to the --
if you went back to the very demanding nineteenth
century criminal pleading laws, criminal pleading laws,
they would say that where you use a legal term that has
a well-0established meaning such as attempt, you don't
need to spell out the definition of that, of that
concept. It's enough to use the term. So what the
Ninth Circuit has done is to resurrect, you know, to go
back to something that's more demanding than would have
been required in a nineteenth century indictment and
frame that as a violation of the Fifth Amendment.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Alito, I'm not
going to defend what the Ninth Circuit did here, but I
will be clear about the following: There is a generic
legal issue at stake in this case that we face in the
Ninth Circuit and in other courts around the country
because indictments are not always written perfectly.
And whether it's an element that the Ninth Circuit has
improperly read into it or an element that a court has
properly read into a statute, we do face the situation
where --
JUSTICE BREYER: As to the element, I
thought that what the Ninth Circuit talked about was
overt act. They didn't use the words "overt act."
MR. DREEBEN: They did, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, all right. I thought
that comes out of conspiracy law; it doesn't even out of
attempt law. Then I thought it's unlikely -- but here
you can correct me. The U.S. Code is filled with the
word "attempt." Just opening it at random, there are
attempts to assault and steal mail matter, there are
attempts to steal the mail matter, there are attempts to
rob a bank, attempts here, attempts there.
Is it the Government's practice whenever
they charge a violation of any of these provisions to
not just use the word "attempt," but to use the words
"substantial step"?
MR. DREEBEN: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: I would have thought the
answer was no. And therefore, this isn't just a small
error of a technical sort. The Ninth Circuit is
completely wrong and not even close. And therefore, if
they're not even close, can the Government come up here
where there's an obvious error and they decide, the
Government, that it would like to have a declaration by
this Court on a matter that they think is quite
interesting and important to them in a lot of other
cases where they can't win the cases easily?
That's, I'm putting it a little pejoratively
because I'm trying to get you to see what I'm driving
at. It's like a hoked-up case. Why not? I'm using it
pejoratively only so that you can see what I'm worried
about.
MR. DREEBEN: We didn't really have a lot of
choice about it. I mean, the Ninth Circuit decided to
read the statute this way and it reversed the
conviction. There's not a circuit split under section
1326. We have to bring thousands of indictments in the
Ninth Circuit, so we're not exactly going to set up test
cases to risk our convictions based on the Ninth
Circuit's rule.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you're making the
concession only for purposes of this case. That is, in
another case you would be free to say the word "attempt"
is good enough; you don't have to spell out in the
indictment a particular overt act.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Ginsburg, it's not
unusual for this Court to decide a case where the
Government does not challenge the underlying
constitutional ruling and make some remedial argument.
Two very notable examples are United States versus Leon,
where the Government did not challenge the underlying
Fourth Amendment claim that was found to be valid by the
lower court, but instead simply asked for a modification
of the exclusionary rule; and another example is Rose
versus Clark, which involves a fairly analogous issue to
this one, whether it can be harmless error to fail to
incorporate into the jury instructions the actual
element and instead rely on a mandatory rebuttable
presumption. In that case the State did not challenge
whether the instruction violated the Constitution. This
Court didn't decide it. Instead, what it decided was
the remedial question of harmless error, which is an
important question and I submit doesn't change in
character depending on the nature of the underlying
error.
JUSTICE STEVENS: We've done it before,
there's no doubt about it. But the better practice
usually is to have a case in which the issue really
presents the hard question. And you're asking us to
make a ruling in this case that would govern failure to
allege an aggravating circumstance in a death case, for
example, which has a different atmosphere to the whole
case when you're facing that kind of an issue.
MR. DREEBEN: It may have a different
atmosphere, but I don't think that it has any different
legal analysis behind it.
JUSTICE STEVENS: A judge's reaction to a
case is often affected by just exactly what's involved.
And here it's just hard to see how anyone could claim
any particular prejudice out of the error in this
particular case or, really, it's arguable that there's
no defect in the indictment at all because it was
adequate notice to the defendant of what he's charged
with. This is much like a case in the State systems
where you have notice pleading. It doesn't seem very
prejudicial.
But you put it in a different context, you
might have a different reaction to the case.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think our fundamental
submission here is that with respect to the probable
cause determination, there is no prejudice because of
the petit jury's verdict. With respect to notice, we
would acknowledge that a defendant could argue that the
defect in a grand jury indictment in a particular case
could fail to give him adequate notice such that he
might have a case-specific claim of prejudice and be
able to overturn the conviction. On the facts of this
case, I agree with you, Justice Stevens, that would not
be a very strong argument. There really is no reason to
think that there was any notice problem with this very
discrete transaction which was alleged in the indictment
as occurring on a particular date in a particular place.
JUSTICE BREYER: Does this come up very
often? I think the case -- the issue you want to raise,
because I would think normally there's a motion before
the trial, well before the jury is empanelled. The
defendant says: I want you to dismiss this; the
indictment's inadequate. And if that's even close, I
would think normally the prosecutor would go back and
say: Fine, I'll get a superseding indictment, and that
would end the problem. And it seems to me so likely to
happen that the chances of the judge wrongly ruling
against the defendant and then it goes through a whole
trial almost never happens.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, I think that
an empirical perspective might be helpful here. And I
think an empirical perspective, if you look around the
circuits and you see the number of issues, cases, in
which this issue is raised, it becomes clear that there
are a large number of situations in which mistakes get
made.
I mean, we're talking about a Federal system
here in which 70 to 80,000 cases are indicted a year.
Mistakes will happen, and they will happen both by the
trial judge and by the prosecutor.
And there will be situations in which the
circuits change the law or the interpretation of the law
after the decision in question. I think that this is a
good example of that, where the Ninth Circuit extended
its prior precedents to find that an indictment that
didn't allege the overt act was inadequate.
And then the Government is stuck, and the
rule of automatic reversal, which the Court may appear
to think in this case is particularly disproportionate
since the indictment looks fine, functions identically
even if there's a conceded violation that every member
of the Court would say yes, there's a missing element
here.
The fundamental problem is that the grand
jury sits to decide probable cause. It does not decide
whether the defendant is actually guilty.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it sits to
decide whether people should be indicted, and yes,
they're supposed to determine whether there's probable
cause, but historically a significant role for the grand
jury has been not to indict people even though the
Government had the evidence to indict them.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I actually do not agree
that there's any stronger evidence, Mr. Chief Justice,
that grand juries didn't indict when the Government had
adequate evidence than there is historical evidence that
petit juries did not convict when there's proof beyond a
reasonable doubt. In both instances, you can point to
historical instances in which grand juries and petit
juries played a role of in effect nullifying when there
was adequate evidence.
But it's clear from the Neder decision that
that history has not led to the conclusion that this
Court cannot evaluate petit jury defects for
harmlessness, and the same conclusion ought to be true a
fortiori for the grand jury.
JUSTICE SOUTER: The trouble with your a
fortiori argument it seems to me is this: If we accept
your argument, then whenever a judge is asked to rule on
a motion to quash, if the judge is in any doubt, the
judge is going to be induced by your rule to deny the
motion to quash and wait and see what happens at trial.
And if in fact they get to trial and they don't prove
the element, then it can either be thrown out because an
element has not been proven or he can go back and revive
the motion to quash.
If on the other hand the Government gets its
act together at that point and does put in evidence on
the element, it's going to be harmless error. And so
the price of, it seems to me, of your rule is that
someone will always be put to trial if there is any
question about how the judge should rule on the motion
to quash, whereas if we go the other way the judge will
grant the motion to quash and the Government can go back
to the grand jury and get another indictment.
It seems to me that something is seriously
lost in that situation if we go your way.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Souter,
experience doesn't show that, in fact, district courts
don't grant these motions. They grant them, as Justice
Breyer indicated, when the indictment is not sufficient.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm sure they do grant
them. But I'm concerned about the, we'll say, the
doubtful case or the judge who can't make up his mind.
Under your rule the price of that uncertainty is always
going to be to subject somebody to trial.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I do think we can assume
that Article III judges are a hearty enough species so
that they can make up their minds and they can rule.
But to the extent that there is a risk here that judges
might reserve the motion, that is the same risk that the
Court fessed up to and acknowledged in the Mechanik
case, where in fact the judge did reserve the motion.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And it seems to me that the
prejudice to the defendant in the two -- as between the
two situations simply is not comparable.
In Mechanik you had a situation in which two
witnesses putting in whatever evidence they were putting
in were in the jury room and, yes, one could influence
the other, et cetera. Here, we're talking about a
situation in which it may very well be that the
defendant should never be put to trial at all. And your
rule says if there's any question about it, put him to
trial, judge.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, given that this issue
arises only when you have a petit jury verdict of guilty
beyond a reasonable doubt, it seems overwhelmingly
likely that any grand jury would have found probable
cause.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we know -- do we have
the grand jury transcripts, so do we know that, in fact,
evidence was put before the grand jury that false
identifications were presented at the border?
MR. DREEBEN: The grand jury transcript is
not in this record, Justice Ginsburg, and we do not
suggest that the Court adopt a rule in which it reviews
the adequacy of the evidentiary showing before the grand
jury. There are important values in grand jury secrecy.
They will, of course, be compromised at the trial stage
if witnesses testify and the testimony is turned over in
that context.
But more important than the practical aspect
is exactly the logic that the Court used in Mechanik.
The point of the grand jury indictment is to determine
is there enough to take this person to trial. Once the
person has been taken to trial and been found guilty
beyond a reasonable doubt, we know that if the
Government went back to the grand jury it would be able
to get an indictment.
JUSTICE ALITO: How far would you go with
the Mechanik logic? Suppose that someone is charged by
information with a felony without the person's consent
and for some reason the trial judge refuses to dismiss
the information and then the person is convicted. Would
you say that because the petit jury returned a verdict
that the fact that the person was charged with a felony
by information calls for no remedy?
MR. DREEBEN: No, I would not go that far,
Justice Alito. I would draw the same line that this
Court drew in the Midland Asphalt case where it was
looking at a somewhat analogous problem of an
interlocutory appeal and the same line that it drew in
Neder itself. In Neder the Court said if the judge
directs a verdict of guilty, that's an impermissible act
and it cannot be rendered harmless no matter how
overwhelming the evidence is.
In the Midland Asphalt case, this Court
dealt with whether the language of the Fifth Amendment
created a right not to be tried. And it does say "No
person shall be held to answer absent an indictment
issued by a grand jury," and the Court said if you have
a defect that causes an indictment not to be an
indictment or, as in your hypothetical, Justice Alito,
no indictment at all, or if you have a defect that
causes the grand jury not to be a grand jury, those are
the kind of fundamental errors that would give rise to a
right not to be tried such that you could take an appeal
before trial, an interlocutory appeal.
And I would submit that the same kind of
principle would apply here.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it's just a
metaphysical inquiry, when is an indictment not an
indictment? It's not some other standard of what's
fundamentally unfair or, from the Sixth amendment,
whether or not there's notice?
MR. DREEBEN: I'm borrowing the language
from the Midland Asphalt opinion, but I think that it
was a poetic way of putting the point that if you don't
have --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You say poetic, I said
metaphysical. When is an indictment not an indictment?
MR. DREEBEN: When you don't have one.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now why would there be any
difference then? That's a question I was about to put
to you. What if there is no indictment at all? Why
couldn't you say the same thing? Well, you know, the
only purpose of getting it is to see if there was
probable cause and you now have a conviction beyond a
reasonable doubt.
MR. DREEBEN: You could push the logic of
that argument that far.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think it's pushing
it, I think it's there.
MR. DREEBEN: Just as in the Neder case, you
could say that it would be harmless error if a judge
directed a jury verdict when the evidence was
overwhelming on all of the elements. But the Court did
draw a distinction between those two situations. And I
think that it's one that responds to a kind of common-
sense view of how fundamental an intrusion is there.
JUSTICE BREYER: Doesn't an indictment have
as its purpose in part to tell the defendant what crime
he's being accused of committing? Isn't that -- so
that's why I thought it would be quite clear, wouldn't
it, or helpful to say that to the Ninth Circuit? And so
an error is when it doesn't do that? And an error is
when it leaves out an element, and he doesn't know what
crime is being committed, he's accused of. So suppose
you had an indictment that really did that. Now he
doesn't know what crime he's accused of. And then you
go to the trial and so forth and now we have to go into
at what point did he work out what crime he was being
accused of, rather hard to say.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, chances are he did know
what crime he was accused of.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, yes, of course the
chances are. But there's a possibility he didn't.
MR. DREEBEN: And we submit --
JUSTICE BREYER: So if he didn't and
therefore the indictment was faulty in that respect,
then what? Are you going to say we have to track
down -- I mean what it's reminding me of is like trying
to say whether he got an adequate lawyer, didn't get an
adequate lawyer, who knows, that kind of problem.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, it isn't quite like
that, I hope, Justice Breyer. I mean, notice defects
are very commonly alleged by defendants and courts know
how to look for prejudice. They know how to say whether
the defendant was denied an opportunity to prepare his
defense or misled by the indictment in some fashion or
another. And that's a very common case by case sort of
prejudice inquiry that fits with the nature of the
violation.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- me until halfway through
the trial that it was robbery I was being accused of
because they left robbery out of the indictment.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, what you get are cases
where there needs to be an effect on interstate commerce
and it's not alleged and then the Government comes up
with proof. I'm not saying that there is going to be a
vast pool of cases in which defendants would validly be
able to show prejudice from lack of notice; and that's
because we do have many other means in the criminal
justice system to alert the defendant to what he's
facing.
There's discovery, there's the opportunities
for a bill of particulars to be filed. Those are the
kinds of conventional harmless error inquiries that are
appropriate when you have a claim that the indictment
fails to give adequate notice. But what is not
appropriate is for the Ninth Circuit to impose a rule on
the Government and on the system of justice that says we
will automatically reverse, because there are important
values at stake here whenever a rule of automatic
reversal is contemplated. And this was true in the
Mickens versus Taylor case where the Court rejected a
rule of automatic reversal when a judge didn't ask a
question in response to an obvious conflict --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm still not sure of your
test. It's whether or not it's fundamentally unfair,
whether or not there's notice, which sounds like more
Sixth Amendment than Fifth. Or whether it's not an
indictment, a rose is a rose type of thing.
MR. DREEBEN: There are two aspects to our
rule, Justice Kennedy. The first is that to the extent
that the claim of a defective indictment goes to the
question of was there probable cause, that error and
that constitutional value is not a basis for reversal
once a petit jury has found guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt on the same point.
To the extent that the defect in the
indictment goes to inadequate notice, a defendant can
make such a claim post trial that the indictment
prejudiced him because it was inadequately framed. But
that should be done on a case-specific basis rather than
on a rule of automatic reversal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Dreeben, if we disagree
with you here, could this defendant be retried? Could
he be reindicted?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Scalia. I don't
believe there would be any double jeopardy bar to
reindicting him since he is the one who's challenged his
conviction.
I'd like to reserve the remainder of my
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Dreeben.
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Baggot.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MR. ATMORE L. BAGGOT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. BAGGOT: Mr. Chief Justice, if it please
the Court:
The structure created by the Constitution of
this country provides a single means of charging a
person with a Federal criminal offense. The intention
of the framers of the Constitution was that a group of
ordinary citizens would take time away from their
families, their businesses, and their other concerns for
the purpose of deciding whether the requirements of the
Fifth Amendment have been met by a Government
prosecutor, and in, in a few words, whether a trial
should proceed. Or not.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You could say the same
thing about a petit jury. And in Neder we use the
harmless error standard.
MR. BAGGOT: Absolutely, but the proceedings
before a grand jury are secret. We never know what
happened inside a grand jury. It's a closed door
proceeding. It is an independent body. It is not
subject to any appeals or reviews by the trial judge.
The only thing that we know what happened behind those
closed doors was the document that emerges, which is the
indictment which becomes public knowledge. Nothing else
is known about what happened in that jury room.
Now, I'll take a guess as to what happened.
The Government told the grand jury that the overt act
requirement was not necessary, or perhaps, I'll take
another guess, they stated to the grand jury what they
stated to the district judge, that the indictment does
in fact state the overt act when plainly it doesn't.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose -- suppose we found
out. Somebody told what happened, and it was a crime of
bank robbery or it's an assault of a mailman, a postman.
And you know, it turns out they didn't present one word
of evidence, not a word that says that this individual
who was assaulted had anything to do with the mail.
There's complete absence of any evidence whatsoever on a
major element of the offense. And now, suppose we get
finished with the trial. Plenty of evidence.
Conviction. Can you go back and raise that?
MR. BAGGOT: I believe it would be raised --
JUSTICE BREYER: No. No. I mean can you
win.
MR. BAGGOT: Oh, can you win.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah.
MR. BAGGOT: You can always raise it.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, you see, I'm saying
is that error? Is that correctible error? I'm saying
there is an absolute error. It is far worse than here.
We know for a certainty there was no evidence whatsoever
presented to the grand jury on a major element of the
crime.
MR. BAGGOT: You're assuming somehow the
transcript has been disclosed.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I assume we know that.
Take that as a given. We know.
MR. BAGGOT: The doors are open, they're not
closed.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, we know.
MR. BAGGOT: We know what happened and
basically there's zero evidence.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Zero.
MR. BAGGOT: Your Honor, the history of this
Court's treatment of grand jury is that they may
consider any evidence; they may consider --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but what is the answer
to my question, yes or no? I'm saying after the --
MR. BAGGOT: I believe in that situation the
petit jury's verdict would stand.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's right. So the
answer is no?
MR. BAGGOT: The answer is no.
JUSTICE BREYER: And if you can't raise
that, which is a major area because there's a harmless
error is what it really amounts to, why isn't the same
true here where the error is far more likely to be
simply technical and make no difference given the
adequacy of the evidence?
MR. BAGGOT: Because the Constitution
contemplates that the grand jury be independent, that
its decision --
JUSTICE BREYER: It does as well in my case.
MR. BAGGOT: -- not be reviewed, that
there's no appeal, there's no review process for what
the grand jury did behind its closed doors, whether we
open the doors or not.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if it's perfectly --
MR. BAGGOT: Sir?
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm sorry. What if it's
perfectly clear that the error is simply a clerical
error? Let's take a case where somebody is charged with
possession of a firearm by a convicted felon. And
before the grand jury, we look at the transcript, we see
that the prosecutor introduced evidence of five
judgments of convictions for felony offenses. And the
jury is properly charged that they have to find that
this individual was a convicted felon. And there's
simply -- and then when the case is tried at, when the
case is tried the defense even stipulates that the
person is a convicted felon.
But there's a clerical mistake in preparing
the indictment. And it doesn't recite the fact that the
defendant was previously convicted of a felony. It's
your position that there must be a reversal there?
MR. BAGGOT: Your Honor, if there is a
clerical error, Rule 36 gives the trial judge the
ability, and the power, and the authority to correct an
error which is purely clerical. I refer you to the case
of Contreras-Rojas, which was this exact defense.
JUSTICE ALITO: But what if it comes up on
appeal? Nothing is done until it comes up on appeal.
MR. BAGGOT: Well, I believe --
JUSTICE ALITO: Which is exactly in the
posture of this case.
MR. BAGGOT: Well, Rule 36 says the court
may correct clerical errors at any situation. But that,
your question presupposes that we know what happened in
the grand jury room, that it should have been an
indictment, they intended it to be in the indictment --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you distinguish
the mail -- the letter carrier case that Justice Breyer
posed, because there you said even though there was no
evidence at all of what this person was, if the petit
jury found it, that would not be subject to review. I
don't think you answered Justice Breyer and he said if
you concede that, the failure to introduce any evidence
that this person was a letter carrier.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would like to even
sharpen Justice Breyer's hypothetical. Let's assume
that the indictment did set forth what the overt act
was. It did. But there was no evidence of that overt
act introduced before the grand jury. What would the
result of that be?
MR. BAGGOT: The result --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Then the trial occurs --
MR. BAGGOT: And he's found guilty.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He's convicted. And I
think you're going -- your position is that conviction
would stand.
MR. BAGGOT: My position is the conviction
would stand, yes, sir.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't seem to me to
make a lot of sense.
MR. BAGGOT: Well, the grand jury is
independent. There is no review from the grand jury.
The petit jury is an independent institutional body.
The function of the grand jury is not only to find
probable cause, rightly or wrongly, but the function of
the grand jury is also to select the charge. And
specifically since your decision in Recuenco versus
Washington that sentencing enhancements are to be
treated the same way as basic elements of the offense to
be charged also, the grand jury's role is going to be
even better.
My position is simply that there is no
review whatsoever from the grand jury. If you're
unhappy, you're a defendant, you're unhappy with what
the grand jury did, you say there's no evidence, you go
to trial, you get acquitted. That's the only review
there is of the grand jury and what they did. If
there's an error the case must go back to the same grand
jury or conceivably another grand jury. There's no
jeopardy at that stage. There's no constitutional
complications. And the Government is free to go back.
Quite frankly, I'm very surprised the Government did not
just go back and amend the indictment -- not amend it,
but supersede the indictment and allege an overt act.
The basic problem we have here is that there
are so many acts committed by everybody which could be
in furtherance of a crime. And the problem is going to
trial that we don't know which act the Government was
talking about. They told us in motion proceedings that
the entry itself was the overt act. But the court of
appeals ruled that that cannot be an overt act. So
possibly Mr. Resendiz was entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can't you ask for a bill of
particulars?
MR. BAGGOT: I could have done that, yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then you would have
had no problem.
MR. BAGGOT: But bill of particulars are not
favored motions. And what is to -- that would still be
the Government speaking on behalf of the grand jury.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Were you, were you
surprised at trial by the evidence that the defendant
had submitted two false identifications? Was the first
time you heard about that at trial?
MR. BAGGOT: Your Honor, Justice Ginsburg, I
would submit that the prejudice to the defendant at the
jury trial, the petit jury, was a slight prejudice. The
real problem I feel was on appeal, that if the
Government had alleged --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But were you, was there
any element of surprise in this trial? Did you not know
beforehand that the Government was going to present
evidence of two false identifications?
MR. BAGGOT: No, I knew that, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So there was no lack of
notice; there was no surprise.
MR. BAGGOT: In our court we have complete
discovery. They copy the file for it and hand it to us.
So we know everything they know. But what we did not
know is what the Government would rely on as their overt
act. They said it was the entry itself. The court of
appeals ruled as a matter of law, rightly or wrongly,
that that cannot be an overt act, because it simply --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, surely submitting
false identification could be a overt act.
MR. BAGGOT: It could be. But --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there any doubt about
that?
MR. BAGGOT: It could be an overt act. It
could be, lying could be a overt act, tying your shoes
in the morning with intent to go to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but you knew that --
you had the file. You knew the Government was going to
prove this. And you also knew it was an overt act.
MR. BAGGOT: It could have been. But there
are many acts.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But your point is not that
there was any prejudice here. Your point is that he was
entitled to a grand jury?
MR. BAGGOT: He was entitled to a grand jury
as an independent institutional body. And the problem I
have with the Government's point of view is that it
places a judge as a reviewing authority over what a
grand jury has done, regardless of the standard that's
applied. And of course in -- it's a rare case when you
even know what a grand jury did.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't have
any -- you're not suggesting to us that the grand jury
that indicted him for intentionally attempting to enter
the United States at or near San Luis would not have
indicted him if the indictment had gone further and
said, and he submitted false IDs?
MR. BAGGOT: There are, there certainly are
scenarios under which they would have indicted him, yes,
sir.
JUSTICE ALITO: You think that the -- that
the indictment had to specify which of the many things
that he did, or the several things that he did when he
approached the border constituted the overt act that the
Ninth Circuit -- he walked up to the border and he did a
number of things to try to get into the United States.
MR. BAGGOT: Sure.
JUSTICE ALITO: And you think that the
indictment has to specify that walking up wasn't a
substantial step, but presenting the documents might
have been, whether it was walking up, presenting the
documents, lying to the agent? You have to go into that
level of detail in order to satisfy the Fifth Amendment?
MR. BAGGOT: Rule 7(c)(1) of the Rules of
Procedure states that the indictment must state the
essential facts. It need not be a memorandum of law
just spelling out the elements of the crime in a general
sense, but it must state the essential facts. In the
Court's case of Hamling it says very clearly, the
language of the statute must be accompanied by such
statement of facts and circumstances as will inform the
accused of the specific offense coming under the general
description which is charged.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's a separate
requirement. I don't know if it's constitutional or not
constitutional, but I didn't think that requirement was
at issue here.
The requirement of stating the facts is not
the requirement of setting out the elements of the law.
At least that's my understanding. Now, you can correct
me if I'm wrong.
MR. BAGGOT: Well, Your Honor, based upon
your Hamling decision, I believe that's what the Court
said, that there must be an allegation of facts under
the decision in United States versus --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm not denying that.
I just didn't think that had anything to do with this
case. I mean, I thought that the object of the
indictment initially was to set forth what crime the
person was accused of and inform him of that.
You are saying, and then there is another
requirement, which seems a little vague. It's been hard
for me to find out, to pin this down, and it's the one
you state, which is that it says in addition in the rule
you have to have facts.
I don't know if those are the same. I
thought they were two separate things.
MR. BAGGOT: Well, Your Honor, one of the
functions of the grand jury indictment is to provide
notice to the accused of the exact offense with which he
is charged. Here, clearly we knew he was charged with
1326, with attempting. What we did not know is which of
the many, many acts that the Government suggested at
various times, which of the many acts they proved at
trial, would be the overt act. As I say, the appeal was
unfair. It's not so much the trial was unfair. It was
the appeal that was unfair.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does the Government have
to pick one overt act and say that's it, when it
introduces evidence of a whole string of them?
MR. BAGGOT: Well, I don't see how we can
really address it unless they tell us what they're
talking about. And I would point out as of today the
Government has still not identified a single act that is
their overt act.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, can't you allege
that the means by which it was done are unknown, but
that it was by one or more of the following?
MR. BAGGOT: Yes, you could. Many times in
conspiracy indictments they will allege any of the
following overt acts.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's exactly what I -- I
tried to read some treatises on this, and the more I
read, the more confused I got.
I started out thinking, well, it's
sufficient if you have bank robbery you say on October
14, 2004, in the city of such and such, at the corner of
such and such, where there is a bank, the defendant
walked into the bank and he, he attempted or he did by
force or threat of force, take property belonging to
someone else, or whatever it is, and that that would be
sufficient. And that you don't have to say, and in
addition he, you know, what the force consisted of, did
it consist of a knife, or a gun, or a fist. Can you
give me some enlightenment, at least if you think that's
relevant here?
MR. BAGGOT: I don't think that's relevant
because that's going into excessive detail. The
requirement is that the essential fact --
JUSTICE BREYER: If it's excessive detail,
the central fact, then why isn't on such and such a date
at such and such a time he attempted to?
MR. BAGGOT: Because he did many things in
furtherance of the attempt according to the Government's
proof, and we had a right to know, to have notice of the
accusation, what is the Government talking about?
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then why, if
that's so, why wouldn't that apply as well if they said
he attempted to and committed an overt act in -- that is
a substantial step. And then you're saying in addition,
they have to list the particular facts.
MR. BAGGOT: The essential facts.
JUSTICE BREYER: I couldn't find any case in
this Court that said that. I mean, I found in Hamling a
case that went the other way, a general statement. They
said all you have to do is say obscenity, you don't have
to say how obscene or in what way it's obscene, et
cetera.
MR. BAGGOT: But in the Russell case they
said that you have to provide the essential facts, what
was the nature of the committee hearing, what was the
subject --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And
then Russell seems lost from sight for quite a while, or
isn't followed a lot.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you come back and you
tell Justice Breyer, well, that's because we had no
notice. But that's a different argument than the fact
that there was no indictment. Notice can be cured by a
bill of particulars, by the fact that you've had a
chance to contest the evidence at trial, that there was
no error. That's a quite different rationale than
saying that this is not an indictment.
MR. BAGGOT: Well, it's not an indictment
because it did not allege the essential facts.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that, it seems to me,
is your argument, not lack of notice.
MR. BAGGOT: Well, it didn't provide a
notice of what the essential facts was. Those are
overlapping concepts, certainly, but we did not know
what the facts --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question.
Should the test for the missing element be different for
the test for the wrong element? In other words, suppose
the indictment alleged he walked up to the border and
the evidence showed he rode a bicycle. There's a
variance. Would that present a different legal issue
than if they just leave the overt act entirely out?
MR. BAGGOT: That presents a different legal
issue because a variance means they alleged A, they
proved B. Here they did not allege A. Nothing was
alleged.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Why should the test for
judging the two be different?
MR. BAGGOT: Between a variance --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Between a variance and an
omission?
MR. BAGGOT: Well, when you have a variance
the question is how much is the variance, how far off is
the variance.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, it's clearly
different. He rode a bicycle instead of walking.
MR. BAGGOT: Well, he's given notice that
he's approaching the border with intent to commit this
crime.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So here you've got notice
he made an attempt, but you didn't tell us whether he
rode the bicycle or he walked.
MR. BAGGOT: But then the question becomes
is it material, is the variance material, is it far off
from what alleged? Here nothing was alleged.
JUSTICE STEVENS: See, the problem I'm
trying to think through is why should there be a
different rule between those two situations. It seems
to me they're equally likely to produce prejudice or
lack of notice and a failure to comply with the letter
of the Constitution.
MR. BAGGOT: Well, the prime variance case
is Stirone versus United States in the 1960s, where the
Court very simply said that where nothing is alleged
this cannot be treated as a simple variance.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But why isn't your answer
to Justice Stevens that in the case in which there is no
allegation of an element at all there isn't a sufficient
indictment to charge him for anything, whereas in the
case of the variance on your theory, as I understand it,
there is an indictment and the question is simply
whether he was misled by the variance and prejudiced?
MR. BAGGOT: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So why isn't the answer is
in one case there's an indictment, and in the other case
there isn't?
MR. BAGGOT: Well, the extent is -- it's a
question that can't be answered in the abstract. It's a
question of how material the variance was.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but why isn't your
answer to him that in the case in which there is a
variance you have an indictment; in the case that you're
talking about there is none? And the reason I press you
on that is that I thought the essence of your case was
that there is no indictment here, i.e., the grand jury
function has not been performed and he is entitled to
the grand jury function before he goes to trial.
MR. BAGGOT: Correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And if that is the nub of
your position, then I would have thought your answer to
Justice Stevens was what I suggested. If that's not
your answer to Justice Stevens, then I'm not sure that I
understand your case.
MR. BAGGOT: Well, Your Honor, our case is
simply that where a material element is omitted the
grand jury -- something went wrong in the grand jury
proceeding, and the only remedy for that is to return
it, the case, to the grand jury and let them have a
second go --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What is the result of what
went wrong? How do you characterize the grand jury
product in the case in which, as you put it, something
goes wrong?
MR. BAGGOT: Constitutionally deficient and
did not fulfill the requirements of the Fifth Amendment.
JUSTICE SOUTER: An insufficient -- in other
words, there is no indictment charging a crime? Is
that --
MR. BAGGOT: That's correct, Your Honor, no
crime, and the reason for that -- I'll go one step
further -- is because there's no way of knowing whether
the Government --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's not an
element. You talk about essential facts and material --
I mean, the statute makes it a crime to intentionally
attempt to enter the United States having previously
been deported and all that. It doesn't say anything
about presenting false identification. So why are those
essential facts when they're not part of what the
statute prohibits?
MR. BAGGOT: Because that is -- there must
be facts to show what the overt act was. Just providing
a legal memorandum of what the elements of the offense
are doesn't do any good. What the Constitution
contemplates is that the essential facts be laid out.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose this indictment
charged not an attempt to enter, but unlawful entry.
Then the indictment would be sufficient, right? There
wouldn't be any problem with it?
MR. BAGGOT: Well, if it --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It charged, not an
attempt, but an unlawful entry. Anything missing from
the indictment?
MR. BAGGOT: No, because that's a general
intent crime. There's no specific intent and no
requirement that he perform any overt act.
JUSTICE ALITO: And the defendant could be
convicted of an attempt under such an indictment, could
he not?
MR. BAGGOT: Under such an indictment, under
this case he could not, because he was under the
constant surveillance of the INS at the time and in law
that is not a legal indictment, not a legal reentry, an
illegal reentry. It's one of those quirks in the law,
and that's why they charged the attempt, to avoid these
questions of whether he was under the constant control
and surveillance of the immigration authorities, which
he was. He never got by secondary. So that's why the
charge was attempt as opposed to unlawful entry.
JUSTICE ALITO: But in that situation, you
wouldn't know what the substantial step was, would you?
MR. BAGGOT: No, and --
JUSTICE ALITO: The indictment wouldn't tell
you what the substantial step was.
MR. BAGGOT: And there wouldn't be any need
either because it's not a specific intent crime and
there's no requirement --
JUSTICE ALITO: If the defendant was
convicted of the lesser included offense of attempt
under an indictment charging the completed offense?
MR. BAGGOT: Attempt is not a lesser
included. The Congress has intended to make attempt on
the same level as the substantive offense. That is the
way the case law has been coming out. So whether he
enters, whether he attempts, or whether he's found in
the United States are all on an equal par. It's not a
lesser included.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't understand
that. You're saying it's a separate offense, but a
lesser included offense is a separate offense. It just
happens to be embraced within some other offense.
MR. BAGGOT: Well, it has the same guideline
punishment. It has the same treatment as the unlawful
entry. And they're treated -- we have case law in our
circuit that says, I think it is Corrales Beltran, that
says the attempt is a substantive offense, even though
it sounds contradictory.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What does that mean, if
you're tried for illegal entry and the Government
doesn't prove the illegal entry because you're under
supervision when you get in, the jury could not convict
of attempt?
MR. BAGGOT: If he was charged that way,
they probably could, yes. There could be a two-count
indictment or there could be alternatives. But that
wasn't this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that would be okay,
just charge with attempt without setting forth the overt
acts for the attempt?
MR. BAGGOT: Well, they would have to set
out the overt act and the essential facts that
constitute the overt act.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose that it's an
assault and the indictment says on such and such a day,
at such and such a time, he assaulted the postman,
right? You also have to say what, that he waved his
fist or that he had a knife? You have to say that in
the indictment?
MR. BAGGOT: No, I don't think so.
JUSTICE BREYER: No. All right. So I
thought normally essential facts means simply the
facts -- you can state the essential facts by writing
the statute and normally that tells you. Now, is that
true? One case that seems to go the other way is
Russell.
MR. BAGGOT: Normally, yes, sir.
JUSTICE BREYER: Normally, yes.
MR. BAGGOT: That's correct. However, in
this case there is a peculiar meaning to the word
"attempt" that when Congress used the word "attempt"
they meant to bring with that word its requirements
under the common law.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why more than any other
word in the statute? "Attempt," people know what that
means.
MR. BAGGOT: Well, they do and they don't.
JUSTICE BREYER: And they also know what
"assault" means. And if you tried, you could spell out
"assault." They know what "robbery" means, but you
could spell it out.
So why does the Ninth Circuit think this one
you have to spell out, but all the other words you don't
have to?
MR. BAGGOT: Well, that's why they had an en
banc determination, because the judges were in disarray
over that question. But at the time of this trial of
the en banc decision in the Ninth Circuit,
Gracidas-Ulibarry, had established concretely that the
intent of the legislature was to incorporate the common
law meaning of the word "attempt."
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Baggot, could I come
back to your answer to my earlier question. You said
you could only be convicted of the lesser included
offense if the lesser included offense is set forth
explicitly in the indictment. Are you sure of that?
MR. BAGGOT: No, sir.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are you sure that's the
law?
MR. BAGGOT: No, but here under 1326 it's
quite different. The intent of the legislature was that
the attempt would itself be a substantive offense.
JUSTICE SCALIA: As I said in my previous
question, every lesser included offense is itself a
substantive offense. That doesn't distinguish attempt
from anything else. And my understanding is if you're
charged with a greater offense, the lesser can be a
subject of conviction even though it's not explicitly
set forth in the indictment.
MR. BAGGOT: Yes, that's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if that is the case
here, then it seems to me he could have been convicted
of attempt without ever having had set forth in the
indictment the overt act that you demand.
MR. BAGGOT: Well, that's a good point. But
under our -- all I can tell you, Justice Scalia, is that
under our case law the attempt is considered a
substantive offense. That's been the law --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But substantive offense
is one thing. Lesser included, I think you said earlier
it couldn't be a lesser included because it's subject to
the same punishment. So it is not lesser?
MR. BAGGOT: Under this statute, under 1326,
that's the ruling of our circuit.
Your Honor, in conclusion, I'd just like to
emphasize that if the Government's position is adapted,
what you will have is judges reviewing the decision of
the grand jury whether or not to allege certain
elements, essential elements of offenses. That is
challenging the independence of the grand jury, which is
part of the structure set up by the Constitution, that
the grand jury is a separate institution. Anything that
the grand jury does, any mistakes that are made, need to
be returned to the grand jury and not be reviewed by a
single judge, a panel of judges, or an en banc or any
court.
Are there any other questions by the Court?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Baggot.
MR. BAGGOT: Thank you, sir.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Dreeben, you
have three minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Dreeben, is attempt a
lesser included offense of the substantive offense of
illegal reentry?
MR. DREEBEN: It's a substantive offense.
It is an attempt offense. I wouldn't necessarily
describe it as lesser included, but Rule 31 of the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure does allow a trial
judge to submit an attempt offense to the petit jury
when attempt is a violation of the substantive law.
I should say that the Government's position
is that there does not need to be a separate charge of
attempt in the indictment in order to permit Rule 31 to
operate, but there is a circuit split over whether
lesser included offenses can be submitted to the jury
unless they are included in the indictment.
So we're not operating under a uniform rule
that would always allow us to do that, and I'm not sure
which way the Ninth Circuit goes on that, although I
could hazard a guess.
(Laughter.)
The problem that we have here is that we are
living under a rule of law in the Ninth Circuit and in
at least one other circuit that forces the Government to
pay a tremendous penalty when a mistake is made in an
indictment, and it does happen. Justice Souter, I can
assure you that judges dismiss plenty of indictments for
failure to dismiss -- state elements, but they don't get
them all.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But Mr. Dreeben, isn't the
point that the tremendous cost that you refer to is a
tremendous cost that the Government pays by its choice
to go to trial, as opposed to going back to the grand
jury and making sure that it has an adequate indictment?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, the Government is often
quite confident that it's correct. And I think if you
put yourself in the position of the prosecutors in this
case, you can see why that's true. But there are myriad
rules and sub-rules of substantive law that this Court
will never review, that require the Government to
conform with various pleading obligations. They're all
below the radar screen. But when you have a rule of
automatic reversal like this, they jump up to
prominence. And the reason that they do is because the
entire criminal justice system, victims, witnesses, the
judge, the prosecutors, the defense bar, jurors,
everybody is being asked to go through a trial that was
conducted on an error-free basis by hypothesis, simply
because there was a mistake at the charging phase. And
the petit jury's verdict we submit makes it clear that
that mistake does not entitle the judicial system to say
let's throw it all out and start again simply as a
prophylactic mechanism.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you concede there was
an error, is there anything to prevent us from saying we
don't accept that concession, and have you rebrief and
argue the question of whether or not an overt act is
required?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I hope that if the Court
does not choose to decide the question on which it
granted certiorari, that it does hold that the Ninth
Circuit's substantive rule of law here is incorrect, and
that there was nothing wrong with the indictment.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But can we do that in the
face of your concession without having reargument?
MR. DREEBEN: Oh, I think this Court can do
anything it chooses, regardless of the Government's
concession.
(Laughter.)
But we're not conceding that the Ninth
Circuit was correct. We simply didn't challenge it
because the important question for us is the rule of law
on harmless error. This pleading rule is something that
we can comply with. It may be wrong, but it's
something, like many wrong rules of law, we live with.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dreeben. The case is submitted.
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you.
(Whereupon, at 11:01 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
14:13,25 17:6 8:9,13,24 21:7 22:2 a.m 1:13 3:2
54:24 24:25 53:3 29:7,12,13 27:24 48:5
agree 8:12 15:3 appeal 21:2,17 assumption 4:7 33:2,5,7 40:21
alert 24:19 31:2,2 34:8 ATMORE 1:18 Baggot 1:18 2:6
9:22 10:10,21 appeals 27:11 atmosphere 27:7 28:7,10
36:6,13 45:23 APPEARAN... 5:17 8:1,20,22 29:24 30:4,21
37:2,20 46:11,14,19 1:14 9:3 10:14 31:3,6,25 32:2
allegation 9:6 applied 35:20 11:12,14,20 32:6,10 33:20
allege 4:4,9 8:2 apply 5:18 21:20 42:12 45:2,13 34:17 35:1,4
33:8 38:21,25 approached 46:10,20,22,23 36:12,19 37:12
18:3 15:6 24:2,14 42:9 49:16 50:2,5 40:14 41:4,8
27:17,21 34:9 41:15,20 appropriate 50:13,17 51:21 41:19,25 42:3
33:8 41:22 42:16,16 24:24 25:1 51:25 52:3,4,7 42:8,14,23
42:25 area 29:15 attempted 10:5 43:9,13,24
alleging 8:1 arguable 14:11 39:9,22 40:4 44:5,15,20
36:9 allow 52:2,12 argue 14:23 attempting 45:7,16,20
allowed 6:16 54:1 35:24 38:7 46:1,13,16,22
41:18 alternatives argument 1:12 attempts 9:17 47:8,19 48:1
48:2,3 47:21 2:2,5,8 3:3,7 11:15,16,16,17 48:10,17,19
54:1 amend 7:15 33:7 13:4 15:4 11:17 47:1 49:2,10,17,22
39:1 amendment 26:15 40:23 Attorney's 7:24 50:23 51:14,15
3:14,18 10:20 41:7 51:18 authorities 46:8 banc 49:11,13
40:5 amounts 29:16 asked 13:8 7:13 16:13 bar 26:6 53:15
25:18 bring 12:17 certain 51:3 10:22,25 11:2 committing 23:3
53:17 48:22 certainly 9:15 11:7,25 12:14 common 9:12,17
certainty 28:16 23:5 25:1 48:23 49:15
3:8 C 2:1 3:1 54:5 49:7,13 50:24 comparable
33:25 calls 20:22 cetera 19:10 52:8,13,17,18 19:6
car 9:9 10:1,2 40:13 54:15 compare 6:23
28:7 29:9 carefully 5:1 13:3,6,14 16:7 34:17
37:13 carrier 31:12,18 54:15 Circuit's 7:20 completed 7:7
13:2,14,23,25 chances 15:17 circumstances 9:18 10:6
6:20 7:3,7 14:18,24 15:3 change 13:18 citizens 26:23 33:5
17:7 15:9 16:14 16:7 city 39:7 comply 7:14
20:12 18:19 19:3 character 13:19 claim 13:7 14:9 42:21 54:18
25:19 20:25 21:7 characterize 15:1 24:24 compromised
25:6 29:23 charge 8:23 Clark 13:10 concede 5:20
40:25 31:5,12 33:2 43:5 46:10 15:24 17:12 conceded 16:16
35:16 37:18 40:8,10 charged 14:13 53:19 conceivably
36:9,10 43:17,18,20 37:3 38:6,6 clerical 30:6,17 concepts 41:10
42:9 44:4,5,9,13 45:13,17 46:6 30:22,24 31:7 concerned 18:18
15:8 54:21,23 44:18 46:21 28:24 30:1 54:9,12
18:16 cases 8:1 12:7,7 53:18 Code 9:20 11:13 concluded 4:9
12:19 15:23 Chief 3:3,9 6:1 come 12:2 15:8 conclusion 8:13
27:22 16:3 24:12,16 6:12 16:22 40:21 49:17 17:13,15 50:25
case-specific 17:4 26:11,14 comes 4:1 11:11 concretely 49:14
29:3,7 15:1 25:25 26:17 35:22 24:14 31:1,2 conducted 53:17
cause 6:3,9 7:4 44:24 51:13,16 coming 37:2 confident 53:5
33:18 14:21 16:20,25 51:20 54:20 46:25 conflict 25:8
37:4,16 19:19 22:13 choice 12:14 commerce 24:13 conform 53:10
40:2,8 25:17 32:14 53:1 commit 42:9 confronted 6:14
48:4 causes 21:12,15 choose 54:4 committed 23:8 6:18
50:12 26:19 34:2,6 39:8 15:12 20:18
15:2 22:13 23:8,10,12,15 defendants 24:2 disproportion...
convictions 37:19 42:10 30:15,25 53:15 22:23
copy 34:18 criminal 8:6 demand 50:14 district 7:10
38:25 31:7 37:10 denying 37:16 36:15,17
53:5 54:15 date 15:7 39:21 depending 28:23 30:1,2
26:19,22 cost 52:25 53:1 death 14:1 Deputy 1:15 6:21 7:3,8
42:22 counsel 3:24 decide 7:6,10 describe 52:1 13:22 17:8,20
51:6 4:23 12:3 13:2,16 description 37:3 19:17 20:12
25:18 10:25 26:20 54:4 detail 36:18 35:2
37:5,6 course 20:4 decided 12:14 39:18,20 doubtful 18:19
court 1:1,12 deciding 26:25 14:21 49:11 22:23
5:1,3,18 6:13 16:8 17:12 20:9 2:3,9 3:6,7,9
45:11 9:2 11:3 12:5 37:13,15 49:13 29:18 6:12 7:9,18,20
19:2 20:1,8,25 defect 8:8,10,14 40:23 41:2,13 11:9,22 12:13
22:22 25:6 21:12,14 25:21 42:7,19 50:1 15:20 17:3
33:14 34:17,21 7:21 25:16 directed 22:21 19:24 20:23
53:8 54:3,10 defend 10:22 disagree 26:2 24:12 25:14
47:17 10:25 18:14 14:23 15:12,18 disclosed 28:20 51:16,18,20,21
Court's 29:5 23:2 24:4,19 34:18 53:4 54:3,10
entire 5:2 53:14 18:3 19:8,22 48:12,13,13 fits 24:7
45:13,18 34:2,13 38:15 failure 4:4 13:25 39:13
equally 42:20 exactly 8:21 false 10:8 19:22 formulation
5:5,7,21 6:19 example 13:9 families 26:24 31:21 37:19
11:25 12:3 examples 13:5 20:23 22:16 50:9,13
8:6 11:2,3 14:10 18:4 39:20 42:4,15 17:16,18
13:13 22:20 23:6,6 exclusionary fashion 24:5 found 5:23 6:20
17:24,25 24:23 25:17 13:9 faulty 23:20 13:7 19:18
23:7 28:4 27:6 28:14,14 Excuse 7:5 favored 33:24 20:11 25:19
34:11 28:15 29:16,17 experience Federal 16:2 27:22 31:15
43:4 30:6,7,22,24 18:14 26:21 52:2 32:2 40:9 47:1
33:2 41:2 explicitly 7:2 feel 34:8 Fourth 13:7
5:22 errors 21:16 extended 16:9 felony 20:17,21 framed 25:24
32:18 31:7 extension 7:23 30:11,19 framers 26:22
37:9 error-free 53:17 extent 18:25 fessed 19:2 frankly 33:6
51:4,4 ESQ 1:15,18 2:3 25:15,21 43:13 Fifth 3:18 10:20 free 12:23 33:5
2:6,9 21:8 25:12 front 6:24
40:7,15 41:5,9 facing 14:3 filed 24:22 functions 16:15
51:4 17:23 18:14 30:12 32:13 14:19 16:19
49:14 27:21 30:18 finding 4:15,19 fundamentally
eventual 6:3 facts 15:2 36:21 finished 28:5 44:22
33:10 53:16 37:14,25 40:6 first 3:4 5:9 8:15 33:11 39:24
45:2,13 6:6,10,23 17:2 41:11 44:25 34:3 G
37:2 17:2,5 18:2,9 16:21 19:16 Honor 29:4 independence
45:20 20:13 24:14 20:11 21:4 30:21 34:5,14 51:5
33:5,6,12,25 gun 39:14 44:5,20 50:25 27:10 29:21
35:8 38:8,13 H hypothesis indicated 18:16
7:16,19 44:23 47:15 Hamling 36:24 hypothetical 17:5
13:1 52:18 53:1,4,9 37:13 40:9 21:13 31:20 indicted 16:3,23
31:11 Government's hand 5:18 18:2 35:24 36:1,4
9:16 11:18 34:18 I indictment 3:17
35:2,7 35:17 39:24 happen 15:17 identically 3:25 4:9,13,15
45:12,17 51:1 52:5 16:4,4 52:20 16:15 6:4,10 7:11,17
54:11 happened 4:5 identification 7:21 8:7,14,18
39:15 49:14 27:23 29:1 identifications 10:19 12:25
29:18 4:12 6:17,24 happens 15:19 34:3,13 15:15 16:10,15
6:25 14:24 17:22 47:7 identified 38:19 18:10,16 20:9
15:14 19:18,21,22,24 harmless 3:13 illegal 46:5 22:6,6,10 23:1
18:8,9 20:2,3,9,13 3:18 5:5,7,21 47:15,16 51:23 23:9,20 24:5
20:15,23 21:11,15,15 6:19 8:7,11,12 imagine 6:2 24:11,24 25:13
28:6 27:8,9,17,19 13:11,17 18:4 immigration 25:16,22,23
33:2,5,7 28:17 29:5,21 21:5 22:20 46:8 27:14,20 30:18
36:17 30:1,9 31:9,23 24:23 27:6 impermissible 31:10,10,21
48:15 32:10,11,13,15 29:15 54:17 21:4 33:7,8 36:1,7
32:19,22,24 harmlessness important 12:6 36:14,20 37:19
43:23 35:14,15,19,21 hazard 52:14 25:3 54:16 41:3,4,15 43:5
52:13 35:23 38:4 hear 3:3 impose 25:1 43:7,11,18,21
7:1 10:22 44:7,9,12 51:3 hearing 40:16 inadequate 45:19,24 46:1
17:21 51:5,7,8,9 53:2 hearty 18:23 15:13 16:11 46:4,14,21
23:21 grant 18:9,15,15 heavy 5:18 25:22 47:21 48:5,9
32:4,19 18:17 held 3:12 21:10 inadequately 49:21 50:9,14
34:12 granted 9:2 54:5 helpful 15:21 25:24 52:7,10,20
39:18 greater 50:7 23:5 incentives 7:13 53:3 54:7
group 26:22 historical 17:6,9 included 46:20 indictments 4:4
50:15 guess 4:1 27:16 16:25 49:19,20 50:4 38:25 52:21
12:2,4 25:19 hold 9:8 54:5 13:12 49:15 30:13
issued 21:11 22:21 25:19 34:10,15,24 39:25 41:10
J 30:12 31:9,15 39:2,20 40:2,8 knowledge
35:16 15:17 16:5 35:23 38:4 44:11,17,24 L 1:18 2:6 26:15
5:23 18:7,8,19 19:3 44:7,9,12 46:11,14,19 41:7 42:21
21:3 22:20 51:8,9 52:3,9 48:4,11,18,24 language 7:25
13:12 30:22 35:18 jury's 3:17 7:1 50:3,11,16,19 36:25
53:15 32:19 53:19 52:20,24 53:14 Laughter 52:15
46:23 18:23,25 49:11 3:9,22 4:2,22 law 4:7,8 5:17
46:17 judge's 14:7 6:1,13 7:5,9,16 Kennedy 3:22 9:17 11:11,12
50:1 judging 41:24 7:19 8:3,16,17 4:3 9:7,13,16 16:7,7 33:17
45:1 30:11 11:6,9,10,23 27:4 38:21 47:10 48:23
Junction 1:18 16:22 17:4,17 kind 14:3 21:16 53:8 54:6,16
17:10 19:4,20,25 23:24 laws 10:12,12
31:23 3:23,25 4:12 24:19 25:2,9 know 6:5 8:9,23 led 17:13
5:23 6:17,20 26:11,14,17 20:12 22:11 legal 10:13,24
50:1 44:6,25 13:8 notable 13:5 omission 3:12
49:19 21:5 33:17 motion 4:5,15 21:25 24:1,17 omitted 44:6
50:4,7 34:22 54:24 4:23 7:17 24:25 25:11,22 once 6:6 7:2
mean 7:5 9:9,9 15:10 17:20,22 34:16 38:5 20:10 25:19
52:1,9 12:14 16:2 18:1,7,9 19:1,3 39:25 40:23,24 open 28:23 30:2
28:8,13 37:18 motions 5:10 42:21 operate 52:8
47:14 move 4:1,3 nub 43:25 opinion 22:2
10:14 48:20 number 15:23 24:21
7:2 19:2,7 20:8 necessary 27:18 53:10 3:7 26:15
15:22 member 16:16 need 5:18 7:13 obtained 4:12 ought 17:15
30:9 memorandum 10:15 36:21 obvious 12:3 out-of-the-blue
MICHAEL 1:15 never 7:6 15:19 39:6 12:25 16:11
22:2 10:11,19 28:4 32:18 34:25 35:4,5,9
31:12 minutes 51:17 10:17,22,25 47:5,6,6,7,12 40:4 41:18
41:13 45:18 16:9 23:5 25:1 51:22,22,24,25 54:1
52:19 53:18,20 52:13,17 54:5 offenses 30:11 overwhelming
16:4 51:8 normally 15:10 office 7:25 overwhelmingly
43:15 modification 48:17,18 okay 47:23
45:5 51:6
place 8:15 15:7 6:25 process 29:25 7:17 17:20,22
40:6 places 35:18 prepare 24:4 produce 42:20 18:1,8,9
played 17:10 present 27:25 prohibits 45:6 7:3,6,10 8:5,24
33:19,23 10:12 14:15 presented 8:5 53:13 13:24 16:8
53:10 54:17 10:2,8 19:23 proof 17:7 24:15 18:7 19:13
point 5:1,14 press 43:19 prophylactic 54:1,4,16
48:25 35:17 38:18 31:8 27:2 30:10 quite 3:22 12:5
pool 24:16 previous 50:3 53:6,15 40:19 41:2
30:20 price 18:5,20 proved 38:9 R
R 1:15 2:3,9 3:1
52:5 53:6 principle 21:20 proven 17:25 3:7 51:18
21:10 possession 30:8 prior 7:23 8:1 provide 38:4
30:16 28:12 29:14
37:20 possibly 33:16 probable 6:3,9 provides 26:20
22:13 25:17 public 27:14 random 11:14
rare 35:20
5:22 6:20 practical 20:7 problem 4:22 purely 30:24
17:7,9 read 11:3,4
19:16 11:18 13:22 15:16 16:19 23:2 26:25
25:19 real 34:8
29:10 16:10 33:9,11,22 push 22:15
32:12 12:13 13:23
52:3 14:21 15:1 42:17 45:15 put 14:17 18:3,6
15:4
29:16 required 8:22 5:17 11:10 50:24 51:7 52:6
10:19 54:2 21:9,17 29:11 Russell 40:14,19 seriously 5:6
27:18 37:5,6,8 43:9 45:14 set 12:18 31:21
43:19 45:22 46:18 rightly 32:14 S 2:1 3:1 49:20 50:9,13
53:13 requirements 34:22 San 35:25 51:6
6:20 7:3,8 48:22 risk 12:19 18:25 saving 5:7 setting 37:9
19:17 requires 4:17 19:1 saying 9:22 47:24
22:14 Resendiz 33:16 rob 11:17 24:15 28:13,14 settled 9:17
Resendiz-Ponce robbery 24:10 29:8 37:21 sharpen 31:20
26:9 ROBERTS 3:3 says 6:5 15:12 24:17 45:8
51:18 23:20 26:11,14 35:22 28:1 31:6 showing 20:2
31:25 44:11 room 19:9 27:15 49:17,23 50:3 19:6 29:18
retried 26:3 rose 13:9 25:13 scenarios 36:4 34:23 42:25
51:9 rule 6:16 7:14 44:10 54:15
25:5,7,18 26:1 18:7,20,24 section 9:5 36:5 48:17
reversed 12:15 26:1 30:22 12:11 14:9 situation 6:2,9
reviewed 29:24 53:11 54:6,16 42:17 53:7 situations 15:25
reviewing 35:18 ruled 33:15 sense 6:2 22:25 22:23 42:19
reviews 20:1 rules 36:19 52:2 sentencing 25:12
right 3:14 5:14 13:25 15:17 38:2 47:5,6 Solicitor 1:15
27:23 12:15 36:25 sufficient 4:16 talk 44:25 thousands 12:17
45:1,6 48:14 6:11 18:16 talked 11:7 threat 39:10
11:21 36:15 44:2 Taylor 25:6 6:17 26:10,23
17:17 46:12,15 35:23 29:18 46:3 48:6
19:4 Stevens 13:21 supersede 33:8 tell 23:2 38:17 49:12
43:2,10 14:7 15:3 superseding 40:22 42:12 times 38:9,24
44:11 41:12,23 42:1 4:12 15:15 46:14 50:16 today 38:18
52:20,24 42:6,11,17 supervision tells 48:14 toes 4:24
46:17 string 38:15 23:8 27:22,22 testify 6:17 20:5 track 23:21
stronger 17:4 45:12 48:4 Thank 26:11,13 transcript 19:24
49:4,6,8 stuck 16:12 Supreme 1:1,12 theory 43:6 19:21
submit 13:18 surely 34:24 39:23 tremendous
35:19 34:6 52:3 34:16 12:5 14:5,19 trial 3:15,23 4:6
27:21 54:21,24 46:3,8 22:2,17,18,24 16:5 17:22,23
37:24 submitting susceptible 8:10 31:16 32:4 18:6,21 19:12
52:22 34:24 system 16:2 36:6,13 37:6 19:14 20:4,10
9:24 10:6 systems 14:14 48:10 49:7 25:23 27:2,11
6:14 40:5 46:12,15 T 54:10 32:1,25 33:12
10:5 13:5 substantive T 2:1,1 thinking 39:5 34:2,4,7,11
36:11,20 46:24 47:12 take 5:5,6 20:10 thought 11:7,10 38:10,11 41:1
42:24 50:2,5,18,19 21:17 26:23 11:12,23 23:4 43:23 49:12
47:2 51:22,24 52:4 27:16,18 28:22 37:18 38:2 52:2 53:2,16
39:3 45:18 46:10 39:9 41:15 work 23:12 31 52:1,7
49:4 47:9 42:13 works 3:23 36 30:22 31:6
48:15 11:20 27:5 want 4:25 7:15 40:3 45:15
uses 8:19 15:9,12 46:12,14,16 7
42:18 wasn't 7:23 9:13 written 11:1 8
22:23validly 24:16 22:3 32:18 wrongly 15:17
34:3,13 value 25:18 40:10,12 44:22 32:14 34:22
41:24 values 20:3 25:4 46:25 47:19
variance 41:17 48:15 52:13 X
verdict 3:20 Z
16:2
19:16 20:20 19:10 52:11 0
43:6 44:4 29:10 53:19 We've 13:21
versus 3:4,11 whatsoever 28:3 1
50:6 25:6 32:16 win 12:7 28:9,10 10:04 1:13 3:2
38:11,11 victims 53:14 witnesses 6:16 1326 9:5 12:17
view 22:25 19:8 20:5 38:7 49:25
violated 13:15 wonder 8:4 14 39:7
6:14 10:20 11:19 27:25 28:1 2
10:5 13:5 16:16 24:8 48:20,21,22,25 2004 39:7
36:11 52:4 49:16 2006 1:9
42:24 words 6:8 11:8 26 2:7
47:2 W 11:20 27:2
