IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
PARENTS INVOLVED IN :
COMMUNITY SCHOOLS, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 05-908
SEATTLE SCHOOL DISTRICT :
NO. 1, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, December 4, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:01 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
HARRY J.F. KORRELL, ESQ., Seattle, Wash.; on behalf
of the Petitioner.
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; as
amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner.
MICHAEL F. MADDEN, ESQ., Seattle, Wash.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
HARRY J.F. KORRELL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GEN PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
As amicus curiae, supporting the
Petitioner 16
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL F. MADDEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
HARRY J.F. KORRELL, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:01 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in 05-908, Parents Involved in Community
Schools versus Seattle School District Number 1.
Mr. Korrell.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF HARRY J.F. KORRELL
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. KORRELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court.
In an effort to achieve its desired racial
balance in its popular high schools, the Seattle school
district denied over 300 children, both white and
minority children, admission to their chosen schools
solely because of their race and without any
individualized consideration. This strikes at the heart
of the Equal Protection Clause which commands that
Government treat people as individuals, not simply as
members of a racial class.
This fundamental equal protection principle
was reiterated in Grutter and in Gratz. The central
question in this case is not, as the school district and
many of its allies suggest, whether integration is
important or whether desegregation is compelling. The
central question in this case is whether outside of the
remedial context, diversity defined as the school
district does, as a white/non-white racial balance, can
be a compelling interest that justifies the use of race
discrimination in high school admissions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Korrell --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you disagree in general
with the Solicitor General's brief? Do you agree in
general with the brief submitted by the Government or do
you have differences with it in its approach?
MR. KORRELL: Justice Kennedy, we -- we
agree mostly with the Solicitor General's brief. I
believe the Solicitor General might take a different
position on whether race neutral mechanisms can be used
to accomplish race specific purposes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I can --
MR. KORRELL: But that's not an issue the
court needs to reach in this case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it, it is a point
that I, I'd like both him and you to discuss at some
point during your argument. If -- can you use race for
site selection? When you have, you need to build a new
school. There are three sites. One of them would be
all one race. Site two would be all the other race.
Site three would be a diversity of races. Can the
school board with, with the intent to have diversity
pick site number 3?
MR. KORRELL: Justice Kennedy, I think the
answer turns on the reason that the schools have the
racial compositions that they do.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It -- there's -- well, we
can have all kinds of different hypotheticals, but
there's residential housing segregation, and it wants,
it wants, the board wants to have diversity.
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, our position is
that if, if the resulting -- if the racial composition
of those schools is not the result of past de jure
segregation --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. It is a new school.
It's a new school.
MR. KORRELL: In that case, Your Honor,
Parents' position is that the Government can't be in the
position of deciding what right racial mix is.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it'd have to take the
three sites, all of them in the hypothetical, all of
them equal, and just flip a coin, because otherwise it
would be using a --
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, obviously it is
not the facts of the Seattle case. In the hypothetical
Your Honor posits, perhaps the right analogy is
something similar to the, a redistricting cases. Where
a court could look at see whether the racial motive was
a predominant factor as opposed to -- JUSTICE KENNEDY:
No, no. The school board says we want, right up front,
we want racial diversity in our new schools. Illicit
under the Fourteenth Amendment in your case?
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, school districts
can do many, many things through race neutral means that
they could not do with race discrimination.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But can they have a race
conscious objective? I think that that's the question
that Justice Kennedy is asking you, and I don't get a
clear answer. You say you can't use a racial means.
But can you have a racial objective? That is, you want
to achieve balance in the schools.
MR. KORRELL: Justice Ginsburg, our position
is that that is prohibited by the Constitution
absent past discrimination.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You would object, then, to
magnet schools? You would object to any system that is
designed to try to cause people voluntarily to go into a
system that is more racially mixed?
MR. KORRELL: Justice Scalia, our objection
to the Seattle program is that it is not a race neutral
means.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I understand. But I'm
trying to find what, you know, the outer limits of your
contentions are. It doesn't seem to me that your briefs
indicated that you would object to something like magnet
schools. The -- even if one of the purposes of those
schools is to try to cause more white students to go to
schools that are predominantly non-white. It's just
voluntary, I mean, but the object is to achieve a
greater racial mix.
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, we object to
the -- if that's the sole goal of a school district
absent past discrimination, we object. But that kind of
hypothetical situation isn't even necessary for the
Court to reach.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it may not be
necessary for you but it might be necessary for us when
we write the case. We're not writing just on a very
fact-specific issue. Of course, the follow-up question,
and the Solicitor General can address it too, is this:
Assuming some race-conscious measures are permissible to
have diversity, isn't it odd to say you can't use race
as a means? I mean, that's the next question. That
may, in fact, be why you give the -- seem to give the
answer that you do. You just don't want to embrace that
contradiction.
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, it is certainly
difficult if race -- if racial balance can be a goal of
government, then it is more difficult to defend a racial
balancing plan as unconstitutional, or to attack one as
constitutional.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That is true.
MR. KORRELL: And this Court has said
repeatedly that racial balancing is unconstitutional.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, we have said it
repeatedly in contexts different from this. I mean, the
paradigm context in which we made remarks to that
effect, stated that, are affirmative action cases. The
point of the affirmative action case is that some
criterion which otherwise would be the appropriate
criterion of selection is being displaced by a racial
mix criterion. That is not what is happening here.
This is not an affirmative action case.
So why should the statements that have been
made in these entirely different contexts necessarily
decide this case?
MR. KORRELL: Justice Souter, we disagree
that the analysis in the Grutter and Gratz cases is
entirely different from the analysis in this case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But don't you agree that
those cases left someone out of the picture entirely
because we were talking about a selection of one person
or another? The word "sorting" has been used in this
context because everybody gets to go to school. Indeed,
they are required to go to school. So no one gets left
out of the system, and I think there have been Court of
Appeals judges who have noted. We have never had that
case before, not like the affirmative action cases.
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, I agree that this
Court has not had a case like this before. I disagree,
however, that it's not like the Grutter or Gratz
decision. The plaintiff in Gratz, as the Court is
aware, attended the University of Michigan at Dearborn.
He got into a school. He didn't get into the school
that he wanted to go to. Similarly, in our case, with
the plaintiffs, they wanted to go to their preferred
schools, schools that the school district acknowledges
provided different educational opportunities, produced
different educational outcomes, and they were preferable
to the parents and children who wanted to go.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you agree that this
is not an affirmative action case? Is it not? Wherein
does it differ? I thought that the school district was
selecting some people because they wanted a certain
racial mix in the schools, and were taking the
affirmative action of giving a preference to students of
a certain race. Why isn't -- why doesn't that qualify
as affirmative action?
MR. KORRELL: If that's what affirmative
action is, Your Honor, then --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't know what
else it is. What do you think it is that causes you to
seemingly accept the characterization that this is not
it?
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, perhaps I
misspoke. I didn't mean to accept the characterization
that this case is not at all --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Let me help you out by
taking you back to my question. One of the
characteristics of the affirmative action cases was the
displacement of some other otherwise generally
acknowledged relevant criterion such as ability as shown
in test scores, grade point averages, things like that;
and that was a characteristic of those cases.
It is not a characteristic of this case, as
I understand it.
MR. KORRELL: I'm not sure that's exactly
right, Your Honor. In this case, the school district
admitted in the response to request for admissions that
had the identified children been of a different race,
they would have been admitted into the schools.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought there was a
criterion here, and that is, you can go to whatever
school you want. You are allowed to go to a certain
choice of school. The criterion was your choice.
MR. KORRELL: Justice Scalia, you're right.
And there's another criterion which I think is getting
to Justice --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, when you state
Justice Scalia is right, you are assuming, I think as
your brief assumed, that the definition of the benefit
to be received here is the active choice, not the
provision of an education.
Now the active choice may be of value. I do
not suggest that it is not. Clearly the school district
thinks it does or it wouldn't provide choice. But it is
not the entire benefit that is being provided, and the
principal benefit is the education, not the choice of
schools. Isn't that correct?
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, they are both
benefits. I would point Your Honor back to this Court's
decision in Gratz, where the same analysis would apply.
And if Your Honor's analysis is correct, that would
mean, I think, that the Gratz case would have been
decided differently.
JUSTICE BREYER: But I think that the point
that Justice Souter is trying to make, as I understand
it, is of course there are similarities to Gratz, they
can choose, but there's a big difference. The
similarity in Grutter, or the difference in Grutter and
Gratz is that you had to prod a school that was supposed
to be better than others, that the members of that
school, the faculty and the administration tried to make
it better than others. It was an elite merit selection
academy. And if you put the black person in, the white
person can't get the benefit of that.
Here we have no merit selection system.
Merit is not an issue. The object of the people who run
this place is not to create a school better than others,
it is to equalize the schools. That's in principle and
in practice, if you look at the numbers, you see that
the six schools that were at the top, their position
would shift radically from year to year, preferences was
about equal among them. They have the same curriculum,
they have similar faculties, and I don't think anyone
can say either in theory or in practice, that one of
these schools happened to be like that prize of
University of Michigan, a merit selection system. That,
I think, was a major difference that he was getting at,
why is this not the same kind of thing? That was at
issue in Grutter and Gratz. Now what is your response
to that?
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, we have several
responses. The first is that the premise of Your
Honor's question is that the schools are in essence
fungible for purposes of providing a high school
education. And I would direct Your Honor to the
District Court judge's decision, a footnote in the
decision in which she acknowledged that the schools were
not of equal quality, that they provided different
levels of education.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course they're not.
That's why some of them were oversubscribed. That's why
others were undersubscribed.
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't say that they
were. What I said was that the object of the school
board and the administering authority was to make them
roughly equal. I said that in terms of curriculum and
faculty, they're about roughly equal. And in terms of
choice, what you see is a wide variation in choice by
those who want to go as to which is their preference
among six schools over a period of five years.
And that suggests a rough effort to create
the equality, not an effort as in Michigan, to run a
merit selection system.
MR. KORRELL: I agree with Your Honor that
there's not a merit selection system in --
JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. Now the question is,
why doesn't that fact that this is not a merit selection
system put a different kind of thing, a sorting system
or a system designed to maintain a degree of
integration, why doesn't that difference make a
difference?
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, I think that the
fundamental command of the Equal Protection Clause is
that government treats as individuals, not as members of
a racial group. And that command I don't think is
suspended because of the nature of a school's admissions
process. That right is still possessed by the
individual students, and if a student is entitled to be
treated as an individual as opposed to a member of a
racial group at a university level, it's Parents'
position they are entitled to that same protection at
the high school level.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Korrell, before your
time runs out, I did want to clarify something about the
standing of the plaintiffs here.
Do I understand correctly that none of the
parents who originally brought this lawsuit have
children who are now pre-ninth grade, but that
newcomers, people who recently joined, do have children
of pre-ninth grade age?
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, that is mostly
correct. There is also a family that joined the parents
association back in 2000 that has a child in seventh
grade, that will be approaching high school by the time
this Court decides the case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the lawsuit was
originally brought by a corporate entity, correct?
MR. KORRELL: That's correct, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not by individual
parents.
MR. KORRELL: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you don't dispute
that membership, for standing purposes, the membership
is what counts, not the association but the members?
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, my understanding
of the Court's jurisprudence on associational standing
is as long as a member of the association has standing,
then the association has it. We submit that that has
been established by the complaint, the interrogatory
responses, and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, if it is a member,
jurisdictional questions generally, don't we go by what
the membership was when the complaint was filed and not
what it has become in the course of the litigation?
MR. KORRELL: I don't think that's right,
Your Honor. We cited to the Court the Pannell case, the
Associated General Contractors case, and Roe versus
Wade, all of which look at post-filing factors to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but the transaction
case situation is different.
MR. KORRELL: You're right, Your Honor, none
of those were class action cases. Pannell and
Associated General Contractors were association cases
much like this one. Roe, of course, was individual
plaintiffs.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I have a question. Does
the record tell us, the 300 people who have failed to
get into the schools they wanted, the racial composition
of that group?
MR. KORRELL: It does, Justice Stevens. The
record shows that 100, roughly 100 students who were
denied admission to their preferred schools were
non-white and roughly 200 who were denied admission were
white students.
If there are no further questions, Mr. Chief
Justice, I will reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
Respondents assert an interest in addressing
the most racially isolated schools in the district, yet
their plan does not address the two most racially
concentrated high schools in their district. They
likewise have certain interests in diversity, yet their
plan does not directly address diversity other than pure
racial diversity, and they do nothing to assemble the
kind of critical mass that was at issue in the Grutter
case.
In fact, if you look at the program and how
it operates in practice, the triggering critical mass
for the use of the racial tie breaker is when a
student -- when a school has less than 25 percent white
students or when it has less than 45 percent non-white
students. There is nothing in the record or in social
science that suggests that there's a radical difference
in the critical mass based on the race of the students.
Of course what explains that difference in
the triggering critical mass of white students versus
non-white students, the answer to that does not lie in
educational theory, the answer lies in the demographics
of the district. The district happens to have 25
percent more non-white students than white students, so
they trigger the race tie breaker at a different point
under those circumstances.
With all respect to respondents, the answer
to how this program works lies not in diversity but in
demographics. They are clearly working backwards from
the overall demographics of the school district rather
than working forward to any clearly articulated
pedagogical role.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, if I could
get back to Justice Kennedy's question earlier, how do
you distinguish decisions like citing magnet schools,
clustering, from the consideration of race in this case?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, I
think that those decisions are different primarily
because the resulting decision is not a racial
classification. And if you think about it, when you had
an overt racial classification, like you clearly do in
these cases, then you naturally ask the strict scrutiny
questions and look for a compelling interest. If
instead you start with a race-neutral government action
that doesn't classify people directly based on race,
then I suppose you could try to do some kind of
Arlington Heights-Washington Davis type analysis.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what would you do
with strategic site selection in order to create racial
diversity?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kennedy, I
think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, that's expressed
and principal purpose. You know the hypothetical.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Okay. And Justice
Kennedy, I will answer the hypo, but let me say it's
easy for purposes of the hypo to say the sole reason was
for race. In the real world, in fact I can't imagine
that a site decision won't be based at least in part on
concerns about the overall educational benefits. And I
think that's important. The reason I start with that
preface is because when you have mixed motives and a
variety of factors I think you'd be unlikely to strike
down that kind of motive.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you suggesting there
was no consideration of overall educational benefits in
this plan?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, Justice Stevens. I'm
saying you start at a different departure point when you
have an express racial classification. I think I'm
trying to answer Justice Kennedy's question about what
if you have a sort of a race-conscious goal at some
level and that's why you select a particular site or you
decide that you're going to invest in magnet schools and
want to put a magnet school in a particular school
district. My humble point is simply that in the real
world I think you're unlikely to have the pure racial
motive type objective. I would say that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose it was faculty,
and the school district makes a deliberate effort to
have members of the white race and members of other
races represented in -- on the faculty of every school,
so you won't have one school with all white teachers, so
that you'll have a mix, and that's quite explicit.
That's their objective and they're using a racial
criterion criterion to get there.
Would that be impermissible, to have a mix
of teachers in all the schools?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I
think if what they wanted to do is have an mix of
teachers that might be okay. If they're going to start
assigning teachers to particular schools and have sort
of racial quotas for the faculty at various schools, I
think that crosses a line.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what would be okay?
How would you get there other than having -- the point
I'm trying to make has been made by others. Let me read
from Judge Boudin's decision. He says: "The choice is
between openly using race as a criterion or concealing
it through some clumsy or proxy device."
If you want to have an integrated school and
you site the schools deliberately to achieve that
objective, it's very hard for me to see how you can have
a racial objective but a nonracial means to get there.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, with respect,
Justice Ginsburg, I think there's a fundamental
difference between how the same intent with two
programs, there's a fundamental difference if one of
them necessarily classifies people on the basis of their
skin color and the other does not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: General Clement, is there
anything unconstitutional about desiring a mingling of
the races and establishing policies which achieve that
result but which do not single out individuals and
disqualify them for certain things because of their
race? Is there anything wrong with a policy of wanting
to have racial mix?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Scalia, we would
take the position that there's not and that there's a
fundamental difference between whether or not the policy
manages to avoid classifying people on the basis of
their race.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: At page 7 of your brief
you say: "School districts have an unquestioned
interest in reducing minority isolation." If I put a
period in there, then I would get to my strategic site
selection, and I still haven't got your answer on that.
You don't put a period there. You say: ". .have an
unquestioned interest in reducing minority isolation
through race-neutral means." And this brings up this
same question Justice Ginsburg had. Isn't it odd
jurisprudence where we have an objective that we state
in one set of terms but a means for achieving it in
another set of terms, unless your answer is that
individual classification by race is, is impermissible,
but other, more broad measures based on, with a racial
purpose are all right?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think that's ultimately
the answer, Justice Kennedy, which is there's a
fundamental difference between classifying people and
having the real world effect. I mean, in this case
don't forget that there were 89 minority students that
wanted to attend Franklin High School. They could not
solely because of their race. At the same time, every
white student who applied to Franklin High School was
allowed in solely base would on their race.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And what is the answer to
my strategic site selection hypothetical?
GENERAL CLEMENT: We would say that's fine.
We would say that that is permissible, for the school to
pursue that.
Just to get back, though, again, we say that
that avoiding racial isolation is -- I just want to make
the point, we say that racial isolation is an important
government interest. I think if you put this plan up
against that objective, it solely fails, because there
are two high schools that I think you would look at as
being racially isolated. They're Cleveland n Rainier
Beach, and this plan does nothing to directly address
those high schools.
JUSTICE SOUTER: My question is really Judge
Boudin's question. You are in effect saying that by
siting the school they can achieve exactly the objective
they are seeking here. It's a question of do the -- the
question comes down to whether they can do it candidly
or do it by clumsier. That is, it seems to me, an
unacceptable basis to draw a constitutional line.
GENERAL CLEMENT: With respect,
Justice Souter, first of all I think the kind of
interests we're talking about, avoiding racial isolation
and the like, do not lend themselves to absolutely
targeted, it has to be 15 percent, it has to be 50, it
has to be 25, it has to be 45. I would actually suggest
that the danger is in the opposite direction.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That isn't what they said
here. I mean, they were dealing with a zone within
which they operated, and it was only when the numbers
got to the outer limits that they said, okay, we're
going to use a racial criterion to prevent anything
more, any more extreme disparity.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I mean, in the
second stage --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's what they do when
they site the school. They said, you know, we'll get a
rough whatever it is, 40-60 mix.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think in the
second case you'll see that, you know, the same logic
that leads to this leads itself to stricter bands. But
let me say, I would have thought the analysis would run
the exact opposite way, and I would think that if you
got to the point, which the Ninth Circuit did on page
58-A of its opinion, where it says, you know, with this
objective that we've allowed, the most narrowly tailored
way to get there is to expressly use race. I would have
thought that might have suggested there was something
wrong with the compelling interest, if that's the way --
JUSTICE BREYER: While you're talking about
the way, let me ask a practical question. 35 years ago
in Swann, this Court said that a school board,
particularly an elected one -- it didn't say that
-- "could well conclude that to prepare students to live
in a pluralistic society each school should have a
prescribed ratio of Negro to white students reflecting
the proportion of the district as a whole." Far more
radical than anything that's at issue here.
Then it adds: "To do this as an educational
policy is within the broad discretionary powers of
school authorities." That's what this Court said 35
years ago. Thousands of school districts across the
country, we're told, have relied on that statement in an
opinion to try to bring about a degree of integration.
You can answer this in the next case if you want. So
think about it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can answer in
this case, General.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: My question, of course, is
simply this. When you have thousands of school
districts relying on this to get a degree of integration
in the United States of America, what are you telling
this Court is going to happen when we start suddenly
making -- departing from the case? Do you want us to
overrule it? Why? Why practically?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General?
GENERAL CLEMENT: If I could answer the
question, I think that the fact that you point to the
specific language of Swann is helpful, because the Court
there in dictum -- I think everybody would agrees that
was dictum -- said that you could achieve a prescribed
ratio. And that's exactly where the logic of the other
side, of the Ninth Circuit, of Judge Boudin, with all
respect, that's where it takes you.
And I think anybody that relied on that
language in the wake of cases like Crosson, in the wake
of Freeman against Pitts, that said achieving a racial
balance for its own sake is not constitutional, and
Bakke and Grutter against Gratz, that all said that
racial balancing is verboten, I think those school
districts would have been misguided in relying on that
language. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Madden.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL F. MADDEN
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS
MR. MADDEN: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
When Seattle was last before this Court you
struck down a State law that prevented bussing for
integration purposes because that law prevented the
school board from seeking to provide the educational
benefits of integrated schools. At that time you said
it was clear enough that all children benefit from
exposure to ethnic and racial diversity in the classroom
by preparing them for citizenship in our pluralistic
society and teaching them to live in harmony and mutual
respect.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Madden, that's
certainly an admirable goal. Could a local unit, a
municipality, or even a State have another goal? Let's
say what used to be great about the United States was
the presence of various ethnic groups. I mean, there
were the Pennsylvania Dutch, there were the Amish, there
were Little Italy's, there were Chinatowns, and these
things are beginning to disappear. And we think that we
should encourage the continuation of that diversity, as
the Federal Government has done with respect to American
Indian tribes.
And therefore, we're going to use public
funds for such things as street festivals, a Chinatown
street festival, an Italian street festival. We're
going to encourage those organizations that maintain
that separateness.
Is there anything unconstitutional about
that objective?
MR. MADDEN: Providing funding for street
festivals?
JUSTICE SCALIA: About the objective? I
mean, think we should foster separateness? Is there
anything wrong --
MR. MADDEN: I think that in the context
that you've described it that would be constitutionally
very problematic.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Fine -- it would be
problematic?
MR. MADDEN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why?
MR. MADDEN: Because I can conceive that
it's not -- unlike education, where the goal is to
educate the entire community and to help to prepare the
community, the students to live in that community, it's
not a traditional role of government --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well then, let me change
Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Please let me finish the
line of questioning.
Assume with me that it is not an
unconstitutional objective, which I am sure it's not.
Could the -- could the government achieve that objective
by barring people from moving into Little Italy or
giving a preference to some people to buy real estate in
Little Italy if they are of Italian ancestry? Could it
do that? Absolutely not, right?
MR. MADDEN: I would agree with you.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it would appear that
even if the objective is okay, you cannot achieve it by
any means whatever. And the mere fact that the
objective of achieving a diverse balanced society is
perfectly all right, although certainly not the only
objective in the world. The mere fact that it's okay
doesn't mean you can achieve it by any means whatever?
MR. MADDEN: I would submit that there's a
fundamental difference between the circumstances you've
described and a school system which takes all comers and
is tasked to educate them by preparing them to live in a
pluralistic society.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, my slight
modification of Justice Scalia's hypothetical -- and it
proceeds on the same theory -- is suppose there's a huge
demand for housing. A developer has a plan to build 500
units. Can the city say, we'll grant you the permit on
the ground, on the condition that 30 percent of all the
houses go to minorities? That means people will live
together. Then we can have a school, a school that can
be diverse.
MR. MADDEN: I would say not, because
housing decisions are inherently private, unlike public
education. And there's no way to know how those
benefits are being distributed, if they're going to be
comparable. I would say no, it is not comparable to the
schools.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, your system is the
one that gives a choice to the individuals.
MR. MADDEN: It does, and when there are
more choices than there are seats available.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does that make a
difference? What if you adopted a plan that insisted on
a more or less rigid 60-40 ratio at every school and
assignments were made on that basis. It was not a
follow-on to a choice system.
MR. MADDEN: Well, I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would that be
unconstitutional?
MR. MADDEN: Excuse me, Mr. Chief Justice.
I'm sorry to interrupt.
I think in each circumstance it depends on
the status of the school system.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The same -- the
facts are otherwise the same, except you conclude that
private choice contributes to further division rather
than integration and so the assignments are made on a
60-40 basis.
MR. MADDEN: I think that is roughly the
circumstance that existed in the first Seattle case,
Mr. Chief Justice. And additionally, I think that you
then have to move into the realm of what's
constitutionally permissible and can in a
constitutionally permissible use of race a school system
accommodate other values like choice and neighborhood
ties and family connections to the school system.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I still don't have
your answer.
Is strict assignment 60-40 without regard to
choice constitutional or not?
MR. MADDEN: I -- I would want to know more
about the system because I think strictly if there's
nothing else and there's no flexibility, I think it
presents narrow tailoring problems.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And how does this
not present narrow tailoring problems if -- if the --
when you get to the fact of choice, the sole criteria at
that level is the same as would be the case in a 60-40
assignment.
MR. MADDEN: Well, we have accommodated
choice to the extent there are seats available. And
then we go to family connections. And then we -- in
operation, admit everyone who lives close to the school.
And then as to those that live further away, we look to
see what's the school's racial demographic. Is it
significantly different than the community's? These
schools we have talked about have been the objects of
significantly more aggressive segregation efforts, and
the board wanted to preserve those.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One of the, one of
the factors our prior cases looked to was whether the
plan has a logical end point. What is the logical end
point in this plan?
MR. MADDEN: Well, the board actually at
every turn reflected in the record discussed whether it
was necessary to continue the use of race, whether to
narrow it, and eventually to end it. And I think it is
in the joint appendix at 408, the superintendent's
testimony of the, simultaneously the measures that the
board was implementing in terms of resource allocation,
implementation of new programs, because they realized
that by diversifying choice, they could hopefully
achieve some of these same ends, not as quickly, not as
efficiently, but that they could achieve them. That's
been indeed the entire trajectory of Seattle's
integration efforts since the first Seattle plan.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in Grutter we said, to
shorten it just a little bit, at page 329-330 of the
U.S. Reports, 539, "the law school's interest is not
simply to assure within its student body some specified
percentage of a particular group because of race ...
that would amount to outright racial balancing which is
patently unconstitutional." And that seems to be what
you have here.
MR. MADDEN: I think that the term racial
balancing has two significant meanings. One is a plan
that does not foster a compelling interest. And second,
a plan that is too rigid, a quota, for instance, that
might not pass narrow tailoring given the context.
In this case we're not after a rigid set of
numbers, and certainly not after a rigid set of numbers
for their own sake. The purpose was to have schools
that had become diverse through integration efforts not
stray too far from the community's demographic because
we're trying to prepare students to live in those
communities.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The problem is that unlike
strategic siting, magnet schools, special resources,
special programs in some schools, you're characterizing
each student by reason of the color of his or her skin.
That is quite a different means. And it
seems to me that that should only be, if ever allowed,
allowed as a last resort.
MR. MADDEN: The board here was trying to
distribute, sort out seats that were available at these
popular schools; and so it devised a system whereby
every student had the opportunity to be assigned to at
least one of those popular schools; and as far as the
record shows in plaintiffs' briefing, there's no
material differences between those -- those popular
schools.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have quotas for, for
racial hiring of your faculty in these schools?
MR. MADDEN: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why not?
MR. MADDEN: I don't think the board has
ever found that necessary to, to achieve diversity in
the faculty.
JUSTICE BREYER: Justice Kennedy's question,
I think, was is this basically a kind of last report?
Or how close to a has resort is it? What's the history
of this? I thought the history involved a lawsuit to
desegregate the schools, a much more rigid system of
racial -- abuse of race. Ultimately you come to this.
Now you stop this. And what happened after you stopped
it?
MR. MADDEN: What happened is that, that it
--
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what is the history
basically? Am I right?
MR. MADDEN: The history is that the board
had both narrowed the use of the integration tie breaker
in '99 and 2000 and then continued it for the 2001
school year. We were -- in 2000-2001 school year, we
were enjoined in 2001 to use it in that year, which was
considerably disruptive. But the board was also, the
measures that it had implemented, implementing magnet
schools at Rainier Beach and Chief South high schools in
the South End, implementing it in --
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's not what I'm
thinking.
MR. MADDEN: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean I'm thinking that, I
thought as I read this, and you have to correct me
because you have a better knowledge, originally the
schools were highly segregated in fact. People brought
a lawsuit. Then to stop that Seattle engaged in a plan
that really bused people around on the basis of race.
That led to white flight. That was bad for the schools.
They then tried a voluntary choice plan. This is part
of that plan. Then when they abandon this plan, they
discover more segregation. Is that basically right or
not?
MR. MADDEN: When, when this plan has --
this -- the description is yes, basically right.
When this plan was suspended in, after the
Court of Appeals enjoined it, the board had, as I said,
experienced some considerable disruption in the
assignments because of the timing of the injunction.
But the board was also looking at the effect of the
race-neutral, if you will, program measures that it had
implemented.
Such that now, Ingram high school in the
north end of Seattle is much more popular. Nathan Hale
is no longer over-subscribed. There's less demand for
Ballard, but there have been --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think your, do you
think your schools as they are operated now are
segregated?
MR. MADDEN: We have some change of
conditions, but the basic conditions remain, the trends
has not been positive. For example, and I think that
the petitioner picked --
JUSTICE SCALIA: To say segregated,
segregated -- you refer to some of the schools as
segregated. And I, that's not what I understand by
segregated.
MR. MADDEN: Not, not in the sense --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you know, if you
belong to a country club that, that -- that has 15
percent black members, I would not consider that a
segregated country club. So what you are complaining
about is, is not segregation in any, in any reasonable
sense of the word. You're complaining about a lack of
racial balance.
MR. MADDEN: We are not complaining about
segregation resulting from purposeful discrimination.
That's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the only meaning of
segregation.
MR. MADDEN: I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're talking about racial
balance.
MR. MADDEN: Talking about schools that are
on the one end racially isolated. The Solicitor General
mentioned two of those. And talking on the other end
about preserving the diversity that we had achieved
through these years of effort in these north end
schools.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I think you're also
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Justice Alito and Justice
Breyer and I myself am interested: Can you tell us what
has happened since the plan's been enjoined?
MR. MADDEN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, have you gone back
to square one? And it's just, there's no diversity at
all? Or is there substantially more diversity? Can you
tell us about that? Because it's important. It may
mean that you don't need to identify students by the
color of their skin in assignment.
MR. MADDEN: It, it may mean the board
confronted with the circumstances might well make that
decision independent of this litigation. But let me
answer the specific.
Let's take Franklin High School to begin
with. In, in 2000, that school was -- had 25 percent
white enrollment. In 2005, it had 10 percent white
enrollment. In the ninth grade, which is really the,
the level at which we see the effect of the segregation
tie breaker, in 2000, the white enrollment was 21
percent; it was 8 percent in 2005.
Go to Ballard High School on the other end.
Ballard was 56 percent white students in 2000; it's 62
percent in 2005. The ninth grade class has moved from
46 percent white students to 58 percent white students.
Keeping in mind that that school is now significantly
less popular than it was, I think those effects would
probably be, be more extreme.
But the plan -- I want to emphasize, the
plan was to try to disperse demand and to foster choices
that would result in diversity, not to compel it. We do
not --
JUSTICE ALITO: How do, how do you square
your objective of achieving racial balance with your
disinterest in the situation at Cleveland and Rainier
Beach? Those are the most unbalanced schools under your
definition, and yet those are not affected at all by
this plan. Why, why are you not concerned about that?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, they are affected by
the plan in this in this way, that in the past the
district had used mandatory measures, busing students
across town, to try to integrate those schools. And the
board decided after many years of effort that it would
no longer do that, but it was also of the firm
conviction that it would allow students who wanted the
opportunity to opt out of those schools to do so.
At the same time, it implemented magnet
schools at Rainier Beach, there's a new building under
construction at Cleveland. And so --
JUSTICE ALITO: Are the students who are
attending those schools getting the benefits of
attending a school that's racially balanced? And if
they're not, why are you not concerned about that, if
that's an important objective of your program?
MR. MADDEN: We, we are concerned about
improving the quality of education in all the schools.
We do not mandate that a student attend a school for
integration purposes as we once did.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why?
MR. MADDEN: Because it, it's important to
the credibility and functionality of the school system
to have a system that is accepted by the public, by our
constituents. And so people like choice; they also like
neighborhood schools; they also like diverse schools.
And the board recognized when it set about to develop
this plan that accommodating all of those values would
require some trade-offs. And the board, familiar with
the local conditions, familiar with the history, did
just that in what I submit was a narrowly tailored and
appropriate way.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I go back to the
Cleveland school that Justice Alito mentioned? An I
correct that there were 16 percent whites under the
plan? And I'm just wondering what happened to it during
the last couple of years?
MR. MADDEN: Cleveland is now about 8
percent.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And it was -- about half
as many whites as there were under the plan.
MR. MADDEN: I don't remember the precise
number in 2000, but that sounds about right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Madden, there was a
question raised about your categories, that is, you have
white and then everything else. And it was suggested
that if you are looking for diversity, what was -- the
schools that you just mentioned had a large percentage
of Asian-Americans, but they don't count.
What is your response to that?
MR. MADDEN: Well, the -- the problem that
the board was addressing was principally a, a problem of
the distribution of white and non-white students. The
-- as a generality, 75 percent of all non-white students
in the district lived in South Seattle. And that was
true for all the ethnic groups except Native Americans,
who are a very small --
JUSTICE ALITO: Why is that a problem?
Suppose you have a school in which 60 percent of the
students are either of Asian ancestry or Latino
ancestry, and 40 percent are white as you classify
people. And there are no African-American students at
all. You would consider that to be a racially balanced
school, would you not?
MR. MADDEN: I would say if that
circumstance occurred, that that would be something that
the board would have to pay attention to and consider.
But the fact of the matter is that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Nothing under the
plan requires that, does it?
MR. MADDEN: No, because the numbers in
terms of the distribution of ethnic groups, separate
ethnic groups and the benefits or impacts of the plan
were spread proportionately --
JUSTICE ALITO: And what is the theory
behind that? Is, the theory is it that the white
students there or the Asian students or the Latino
students would not benefit from having African-American
classmates? It is enough if they have either Asian
classmates or Latino classmates or white classmates?
How do you -- how do square that with your, your
objective of providing benefits that flow from racial
balance?
MR. MADDEN: I may, I may have confused the
answer to the hypothetical with the, with rationale on
the ground, which was that we did not have that kind of
single minority ethnic group disparity existing in any
school. I was saying, however, that if that existed, I
think that would be something the board would have to be
mindful of. As a practical matter, because our
non-white ethnic neighborhoods in South Seattle are
themselves quite integrated, that the movement under
this plan did not produce disparities for or against any
particular ethnic group. And so I think in the end it
might have been more divisive to have individual
tiebreakers for the separate minority ethnic groups.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What criteria of race does
the school, just out of curiosity, does the school
district use? I mean, what if a particular child's
grandfather was white? Would he qualify as a white or
non-white.
MR. MADDEN: I would say -- well, the answer
is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, there must be some
criterion. There are many people of mixed blood.
MR. MADDEN: The district has no criteria
itself. The district uses classifications that are
developed by the Federal Government but allows parents
to self identify children.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It allows parents to say
I'm white, no matter what?
MR. MADDEN: That allows the parents to self
identify, and the record in this case through the
testimony of petitioner's president is they were aware
of no abuse of that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Seems like a big loophole.
MR. MADDEN: It seems like one but according
to the record, it's not an issue. I'd like to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't defend the
choice policy on the basis that the schools offer
education to everyone of the same quality, do you?
MR. MADDEN: Oh, yes. Yes. They offer --
the popular schools to which everyone had access under
this plan who wanted access, I think it's -- there is no
dispute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is that
different from the separate but equal argument? In
other words, it doesn't matter that they're being
assigned on the basis of their race because they're
getting the same type of education.
MR. MADDEN: Well, because the schools are
not racially separate. The goal is to maintain the
diversity that existed within a broad range in order to
try to obtain the benefits that the educational research
show flow from an integrated education.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even though in the
individual cases the students, including minority
students, and I gather 89 to 100 of the cases are being
denied admission on the basis of their race?
MR. MADDEN: They're not being denied
admission. They're being -- seats are being distributed
to them. This is not like --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They are being
denied admission to the school of their choice?
MR. MADDEN: Yes. But this is not like
being denied admission to a state's flagship university.
I think for that proposition, I would cite Justice
Powell's opinion in the Bakke case where he was at some
pains to point out that a school integration plan is
wholly dissimilar to a selective university admissions
plan.
JUSTICE ALITO: If we look at the things
that Parents are concerned about when they're
considering where their children are going to high
school, we look at things like SAT scores, for example,
or performance on statewide tests, would we see that,
the oversubscribed schools and the undersubscribed
schools have similar test scores?
MR. MADDEN: It depends on what school
you're talking about, Justice Alito. In this case, I
think the most important point to start with is that
there was no contention that there was any material
difference in quality between the five popular high
schools.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if we looked at
Garfield and Cleveland, what would we find?
MR. MADDEN: You would find a reasonable
basis to perceive a quality difference between those two
schools, but this plan didn't assign any students to
Cleveland.
I want to take a moment, if I can, to turn
to the issue of individualized consideration, because so
much emphasis has been placed on it in the earlier
discussion.
It seems to us, first of all, that this
Court in Grutter said that not all uses of race trigger
the same objections and that the Court must be mindful
of the context. This is not, as I've said, a selective
or merit-based system where we adjudge one student to be
better than the other. We do consider individual
factors before we get to race, starting with choice and
family connection, and how close you live to the school.
But ultimately, this is a distributive
system which, as Justice Powell -- as I noted, Justice
Powell said in the Bakke case, is quite wholly
dissimilar to a merit or selective-based system. What
it seems to us is being suggested by the United States
and by the petitioner is a system that would force an
individualized merit-based review on any kind of race
conscious program, specifically an assignment to public
schools.
That rule allows the means to define the
ends; and it ends up, I think, defeating the purpose
that the Court had of not stigmatizing --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the reason that
our prior tests have focused on individual determination
is that the purpose of the Equal Protection Clause is to
ensure that people are treated as individuals rather
than based on the color of their skin. So saying that
this doesn't involve individualized determinations
simply highlights the fact that the decision to
distribute, as you put it, was based on skin color and
not any other factor.
MR. MADDEN: Mr. Chief Justice, in Grutter
you said specifically that individualized review was
required in the context of university admissions. In
this context, the kind of review, the specific kind of
review that I understand the United States to urge and
the petitioner to urge, serves no purpose, and it may
itself be stigmatizing in the context of public schools
where everyone gets a seat.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're saying that
individual treatment makes no sense in terms of the
objective here. I thought that's what you were saying.
MR. MADDEN: Justice Ginsburg, that is
correct. I am saying, however, that this plan,
consistent with narrow tailoring, provided consideration
of individual circumstances, including an appeal on
hardship grounds for someone who felt that they had been
denied a school that they needed to be in.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the emphasis on the
fact that everybody gets into a school, it seems to me
is misplaced, but the question is whether or not you can
get into the school that you really prefer. And that in
some cases depends solely on skin color. You know, it's
like saying everybody can have a meal but only people
with separate skin can get the dessert.
MR. MADDEN: Well, like the Michigan cases,
sometimes student in the end of the day have an
assignment determined by race. Just like in the
university cases, at some point race will be a tipping
factor. It's different, though, when we put someone in
a basically comparable school.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you're saying
every -- I mean, everyone got a seat in Brown as well;
but because they were assigned to those seats on the
basis of race, it violated equal protection. How is
your argument that there's no problem here because
everybody gets a seat distinguishable?
MR. MADDEN: Because segregation is harmful.
Integration, this Court has recognized in Swann, in the
first Seattle case, has benefits. The district was --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it seems to me you're
saying you can't make an omelet without breaking eggs.
Can you think of any area of the law in which we say
whatever it takes, so long as there's a real need,
whatever it takes -- I mean, if we have a lot of crime
out there and the only way to get rid of it is to use
warrantless searches, you know, fudge on some of the
protections of the Bill of Rights, whatever it takes,
we've got to do it?
Is there any area of the law that doesn't
have some absolute restrictions?
MR. MADDEN: There are many areas of the
law, certainly in the First Amendment and the Fourth
Amendment, that have considerable flexibility.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But what about the
Fourteenth? I thought that was one of the absolute
restrictions, that you cannot judge and classify people
on the basis of their race. You can pursue the
objectives that your school board is pursuing, but at
some point you come against an absolute, and aren't you
just denying that?
MR. MADDEN: I think that in Grutter and
Gratz, this Court rejected the absolute and instead
described discretely, which we feel we need, and which
is why we are not urging an absolute position. We say
that we indeed comply with the requirements of narrow
tailoring, and that the plan therefore should be upheld.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the question of
integration, whether there was any use of a racial
criterion, whether integration, using racial integration
is the same as segregation, it seems to me is pretty far
from the kind of headlines that attended the Brown
decision. They were, at last, white and black children
together on the same school bench. That seems to be
worlds apart from saying we'll separate them.
MR. MADDEN: We certainly agree,
Justice Ginsburg. We'd go one step further and note
that in Brown, this Court said that the effects of
segregated schools are worse.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There's no effort
here on the part of the school to separate students on
the basis of race. It's an assignment on the basis of
race, correct?
MR. MADDEN: And it is in effect to bring
students together in a mix that is not too far from
their community.
I see that my time has expired. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Madden.
Mr. Korrell, you have four minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF HARRY J.F. KORRELL
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. KORRELL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
There were some questions of my friend Mr. Madden about
the record and the statistics about enrollment, and I'd
like to draw the Court's attention, particularly
Justice Breyer and Justice Stevens' questions about what
the schools look like now.
If the Court looks at pages 6 and 7 of our
reply brief, we provided the enrollment data. The
information on page 7 comes from the school district
website that provides enrollment data at the individual
schools. In 2005 and 2006, enrollment at the
oversubscribed schools is now 54 percent non-white,
which is greater than it was under the district's --
JUSTICE BREYER: This is the -- as I gather,
the plan where race is used, has to do only with the
ninth grade. And therefore, what you would like to note
is when you look at the ninth grade after they stopped
using any racial criteria at all, what happened to those
ninth grade classes. Did they become more heavily
separated or did they retain their diversity? Are the
numbers that you are about to read us, which I have in
front of me, going to do that? Tell us that? I think
they're about the whole school.
MR. KORRELL: They are, Your Honor, but
they're about the whole school after four years of
operating without the race preference. So each of the
four years they're represented in the aggregate shows
the effect that I think Your Honor was asking about.
So, the record in this case shows the
Seattle schools are richly diverse. It's very important
in our view that the Court not lose site of that. We've
talked about integration and segregation, but I urge the
Court to take a look at the data the petitioners submit
regarding the actual enrollment in those schools.
A couple of other record citations I'd like
to bring to the Court's attention. Justice Kennedy, I
think, asked about considering race at a last resort.
It's simply not the case that the school district looked
at race as a last resort. And I would draw the Court's
attention to the superintendent's testimony at joint
appendix 224 and 25, where he said in essence, the
reason we didn't consider race neutral plans is because
we were interested in racial diversity.
JUSTICE BREYER: The numbers I have here,
Franklin went from 25 percent white to 12.7 percent.
Roosevelt, which was basically a white school, jumped up
from about 51 to 59. Ballard jumped up from about 56 to
62. Then Garfield went down some, more mixed. But
those were the worst ones; am I right on that?
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, I think the
numbers that you're reading are from the difference
between the 2000 and -- '99 and the 2000 enrollments.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MR. KORRELL: The numbers I was trying to
bring to the Court's attention were the difference
between the enrollment under the race-based plan and the
enrollment in 2005 and 2006, which shows significant and
continued racial diversity in Seattle's high schools.
Counsel suggested also that there is no
material difference among the five oversubscribed
schools. And I would draw the Court's attention to the
testimony of the board president at joint appendix 261
to 274, where she discusses in detail the programmatic
differences. It is true that those five schools were
oversubscribed and they were popular, but they all
provide unique programs, some of which as we indicated
in our briefs, required children to meet certain
prerequisites to be able to attend.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was the board
simultaneously trying to introduce similar programs or
attractive programs in the undersubscribed schools?
MR. KORRELL: Your Honor, I'm perhaps not
the best person to answer that. I believe the board has
been trying to introduce programs at all of its schools
that would make each school unique, and I think that
includes the undersubscribed schools as well.
Justice Breyer asked a question about the --
about the process of this litigation, and my
understanding is there was never a lawsuit against
Seattle to compel desegregation, that they were always
following a plan.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:02 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
54:20 13:16 amicus 1:21 2:7 41:14 avoiding 23:6,23
50:2,5,7 admirable 27:11 amount 33:8 asking 6:11 54:19
45:4 analysis 8:22,23 assemble 17:11 B
admissions 4:4 24:17 assign 46:9 11:20 15:4
adopted 30:14 22:5,12,17,25 47:5 48:20 45:13 46:25
8:13,17 9:7,21 31:14 38:16 assignments 6:14 8:2 16:22
African-Amer... 54:8 36:10 39:11 42:23
7:7 21:5 aggregate 52:12 appeal 48:8 association 15:4 balancing 8:4,8
23:16 aggressive 32:9 Appeals 9:6 15:15,18,19 26:16 33:8,12
29:1,8,13 ago 25:1,12 36:8 16:9 Ballard 36:17
34:18 agree 4:7,11 appear 29:7 associational 38:24,25 53:7
29:10 50:18 appendix 32:19 assumed 11:10 base 22:24
agrees 26:6 53:1,22 assuming 7:20 based 17:21
13:8 Alito 36:18 38:3 apply 11:21 assure 33:6 22:14 47:14,17
41:23 42:15 approaching attend 22:21 basically 34:21
9:7,21,25 allies 3:23 appropriate attended 9:12 48:23 53:6
16:8 allocation 32:21 8:14 40:22 50:14 basis 21:12,24
allow 39:22 area 49:10,17 attending 40:3,4 23:20 30:16
allows 43:23,25 3:7 4:20 16:25 attractive 54:6 50:24,24
23:12 Amendment 6:5 49:3 51:9 25:11 35:14 39:13,25
3:8 51:15,24 53:4 48:18,21 13:19,19 21:1 2:6 16:24,25
26:22 53:13 54:12 categories 41:10 30:10,17 31:2 17:3 18:15
brief 4:7,8,11 cause 6:20 7:5 31:11,16,23 19:4,8,21
51:18 central 3:21,25 40:15 44:10 21:21 22:16
12:10 52:21 53:15 certainly 8:1 choose 12:3 Cleveland 23:11
42:18 brings 22:8 27:11 29:11 chosen 3:14 39:12 40:1,24
27:4 25:10 44:23 50:18 26:9 close 32:4 34:22
40:3 brought 14:23 change 28:20 circumstance 46:22
44:24 15:8 35:22 36:21 30:23 31:6 club 37:6,8
Brown 48:25 characteristic 42:6 clumsier 23:19
46:20 building 39:25 10:14 38:14 48:8 coin 5:20
Chief 3:3,9 15:7 citizenship 27:7 comers 29:16
13:16 25:2 candidly 23:18 25:17 26:2,19 class 3:19 16:8 command 14:9
32:10,15 case 3:22,25 26:23 30:13,19 39:1 14:11
34:5,17 4:17 5:15,23 30:21,25 31:7 classes 52:4 commands 3:17
36:8 6:5 7:17 8:13 31:13,21 32:11 classification communities
38:13 8:17,20,23 9:7 35:14 42:9 18:18,19 19:23 33:22
40:17,19 9:9,14,21 44:9,16 45:1,8 22:13 community 1:4
42:7 10:11,19,22 47:10,19 48:24 classifications 3:4 28:17,18
50:1 11:23 15:6 50:22 51:5,11 43:22 28:18 51:3
54:4,8 16:2,3,6 17:13 54:17 classifies 21:12 community's
33:16 44:3 14:24,25 27:5 21:24 22:18 compel 39:8
35:8 49:7 52:14,23 50:15 54:2 42:19,20,20,20 compelling 3:24
54:18,19 child's 43:14 classroom 27:6 4:3 18:21
14:2 10:14,18 16:8 Chinatowns clear 6:12 27:5 37:8,10,12
25:20 16:9 18:20 27:16 clearly 11:14 complaint 15:20
26:14 31:16 25:11,24 26:5 deciding 5:17 dessert 48:17
16:14 construction 49:6 50:5,20 18:17 19:12 47:11
contention 46:2 Court's 11:20 47:16 50:15 47:15
46:18 47:21,22 create 12:13 defend 8:3 44:9 developed 43:23
45:18 contexts 8:10,19 credibility 40:13 defined 4:1 device 21:3
continue 32:17 43:12,21 52:3 degree 14:5 differ 9:22
40:20 Contractors 11:2,4,6 20:14 deliberately 17:20,22 21:10
contradiction 24:7 43:20 demand 29:22 29:15 30:14
conviction 39:22 17:21,23 32:6 33:20 differences 4:9
32:3 correct 11:18,22 Crosson 26:12 17:25 18:7,8 different 4:12
35:20 40:25 17:1 16:18,19 45:4 9:17,18 10:24
46:20 correctly 14:22 curriculum 48:10 18:3,16 19:22
counsel 16:23 12:18 13:17 denying 50:3 32:7 34:2
49:21 54:17 D Department differently
country 25:13 16:25 departure 19:22 difficult 8:2,3
18:14 counts 15:15 data 51:18,20 45:24 48:15 direction 24:2
46:12 couple 41:2 52:18 described 28:9 directly 17:10
52:20 Davis 18:25 29:16 50:6 18:23 23:12
52:22 13:11 15:25 de 5:11 desegregate 8:21 9:9
court 1:1,14 December 1:11 3:24 54:15 discretely 50:6
7:13 8:7 9:5,9 decided 11:24 14:5 25:10
23:20 16:2 17:4 25:2 decides 15:6 desiring 21:15 4:4 6:8,17 7:11
diverse 29:10 37:24 39:20 establishing facts 5:23 31:1
4:25 5:8 6:4 41:25 42:19 43:2,6,9,11 20:21 34:14,19
19:3 27:6,18 embrace 7:24 26:6 48:12,16 familiar 40:19
52:5 53:3,18 encourage 27:18 23:16 26:8 46:22
divisive 43:10 ends 32:24 47:8 45:20 34:9 50:13
D.C 1:10,20 enrollment experienced felt 48:9
E 51:13,18,20,21 expired 51:4 festivals 27:22
earlier 18:12 enrollments explicit 20:12 filed 15:24
easy 19:10 ensure 47:13 express 19:23 fine 14:2 23:2
29:17 28:17 33:1 expressly 24:22 finish 28:22
42:12 11:17 13:6,10 8:25 extreme 24:8 first 3:4 13:3
40:8 44:11,20 14:17 33:2 46:15
4:2 educational equal 3:17,20 F 1:22 2:10 five 13:21 46:3
9:16,22 9:17,18 17:25 5:20 12:18 26:21 53:20,24
11:14 19:13,19 25:9 13:9,17,18 fact 7:23 14:3 flagship 45:11
17:6,8 27:3 44:24 14:9 44:17 17:14 19:11 flexibility 31:19
20:4,8 effect 8:12 22:19 47:12 49:2 26:4 29:9,12 49:21
39:18 23:15 36:11 equality 13:23 31:23 35:22 flight 35:25
43:14,21 38:21 51:1 equalize 12:14 42:8 47:16 flip 5:20
49:7 52:13 ESQ 1:17,19,22 48:12 flow 42:22 44:25
52:23 effects 39:4 2:3,6,10,13 factor 6:2 47:18 focused 47:11
25:12,22 efficiently 32:25 53:1 factors 16:4 follow-on 30:17
effort 3:11 13:22 established 19:16 32:12 follow-up 7:18
39:7 General's 4:7,11 great 27:13 36:14 38:17,24 32:21 35:13,15
44:20 ground 29:24 highlights 47:16 38:10 40:6,12
6:9,15 8:24 grounds 48:9 hiring 34:14 improving 40:8
38:17 20:23 21:9 43:2,9 Honor 5:9,15,22 48:8
22:9 41:9 48:2 groups 27:14 5:24 6:6 7:9 independent
giving 9:25 29:3 26:15 33:3 53:10 54:7 14:15 15:10
14:9 21:9 9:14,15,19 50:4 13:4 43:10 45:2
22:18 11:2,3 13:20 hopefully 32:23 46:20 47:11
15:23 29:25 H houses 29:25 48:3,8 51:20
32:5 28:16 44:22 35:1,3 38:5 hypo 19:9,10 14:10 21:17
going 20:2,19 41:1 52:3 hypothetical 30:10 47:13
25:24 happening 8:16 5:19,23 7:12 information
3:18 4:8 5:16 harmful 49:5 5:6 injunction 36:10
18:22 23:8 HARRY 1:17 I instance 33:14
7:19 grade 10:17 hear 3:3 43:24 44:3 27:4 43:7
17:3 14:24 15:1,5 heart 3:16 Illicit 6:4 44:25
19:4,8 38:20 39:1 heavily 52:4 imagine 19:11 integration 3:23
20:17 52:1,2,4 Heights-Wash... impacts 42:13 14:6 25:14,22
grandfather 18:25 impermissible 27:2 31:3 33:2
23:2,21 43:15 help 10:12 28:17 20:15 22:13 33:19 35:8
25:18 grant 29:23 helpful 26:5 implementation 40:10 45:14
Gratz 3:21 8:22 high 3:12 4:4 32:22 49:6 50:11,12
52:17 15:17 22:10 50:19,22 51:5 51:11 52:9 longer 36:16
3:9 4:5,6,10,15 52:21 53:4,13 look 6:1 12:15
22:3,7 5:18 6:2,9,11 justifies 4:3 lack 37:10 18:21 23:10
24:24 6:15,18,22,25 J.F 1:17 2:3,13 language 26:5 32:5 45:17,20
7:14,15 8:6,9 3:7 51:9 26:12,18 51:16 52:2,18
10:5,12 11:1,5 K Latino 41:25 46:5 52:23
12:1 13:11,14 Kennedy 4:6,10 Laughter 25:19 41:12
15:10,13,22 5:13,18 6:2,11 49:10,17,20 loophole 44:6
20:17,23 21:9 48:11 52:21 left 8:25 9:4 2:10 26:20,21
37:21 22:9,17,25 18:12 19:24 Let's 27:12 28:3,8,13,15
24:11,25 25:17 kind 7:11 12:24 level 14:16,18 30:11,18,21
17:12 26:23 27:10 18:24 19:17 38:21 32:15 33:11
44:8 28:5,11,14,20 23:22 34:21 levels 13:10 34:5,15,17
28:21,22 29:7 43:1 47:4,22 lie 17:24 35:3,7,18 36:5
30:13,19,21,25 kinds 5:6 likewise 17:9 37:17,20 38:6
31:17 37:5 litigation 15:25 43:17,21 44:2
38:3,3,3,7 35:21 29:4 33:4 46:7 47:19
53:22 40:23,24 41:5 2:13 3:6,7,9 28:18 29:17,25 49:19 50:4,18
49:24 42:15 43:12,19 5:15,22 6:6,15 46:22 magnet 6:19 7:3
48:5,11,24 15:12,16 16:1 logical 32:13,13 major 12:23
merit-based narrowed 35:8 3:7 16:25
MICHAEL 1:22 40:21 O 2:1 3:1 order 19:2 44:23
53:20 Michigan 9:12 Native 41:21 7:3,7,9,11 27:24
44:1,18 48:18 nature 14:12 objection 6:22 15:8 35:21
mind 39:3 necessarily 8:19 objections 46:17 outcomes 9:18
10:10 mingling 21:15 7:16,16 32:17 21:6,7 22:10 outside 3:25
19:6 minorities 29:25 34:18 23:9,16 24:21 overall 18:8
24:4,9 minority 3:14 need 4:21 38:11 28:2,5,25 29:1 19:13,19
28:6 22:3,7,20 43:2 49:11 50:6 29:8,10,12 overrule 26:1
35:19 43:11 45:2 needed 48:10 39:11 40:6 oversubscribed
38:7,11 minutes 51:7 needs 4:17 42:22 48:4 13:12 45:22
43:14,19 misguided 26:17 Negro 25:6 objectives 50:1 51:22 53:20,25
49:12 misplaced 48:13 neighborhood objects 32:8 overt 18:19
21:7 22:8 20:12,15,18 neutral 4:13 6:7 odd 7:21 22:9 P
29:9,13 21:20 24:13 6:23 53:2 offer 44:10,12 P 3:1
34:2 51:2 never 9:6 54:14 Oh 44:12 page 2:2 22:1
mixed 6:21 new 4:21 5:13 okay 19:8 20:19 24:19 33:4
32:20 53:8 39:25 29:8,12 53:13 pages 51:17
36:12 modification newcomers omelet 49:9 pains 45:14
29:20 14:25 once 40:10 Pannell 16:2,8
Monday 1:11 38:20 39:1 openly 21:2 parents 1:3 3:4
motives 19:15 non-white 7:6 operates 17:15 15:11 43:23,25
14:10 moved 39:1 18:2 41:18,19 operation 32:4 part 19:12 36:1
20:9,9 movement 43:7 43:6,16 51:22 opinion 24:20 50:23
moving 29:2 north 36:15 25:14 45:13 particular 20:1
27:12 note 50:19 52:1 9:17 43:9,14
40:24 number 3:5 5:1 34:8 39:23 25:3 51:14
N 41:8 opposed 6:2 pass 33:15
Pitts 26:13 posits 5:24 pre-ninth 14:24 49:15
plaintiff 9:11 Powell 46:24,25 principal 11:17 provided 9:17
14:21 16:11 powers 25:10 principally 48:7 51:18
12:12 plan 8:4 17:7,10 43:5 principle 3:20 providing 13:5
16:13 19:20 23:8,12 practically 26:1 12:14 28:3 42:22
21:12,24 29:22 30:14 practice 12:15 prior 32:12 provision 11:12
29:2,3 32:13,14 33:2 12:20 17:15 47:11 proxy 21:3
35:22,24 33:12,14 35:23 precise 41:7 private 30:4 public 27:21
42:2 36:1,2,2,5,7 predominant 31:2 30:4 40:14
47:13 39:6,7,15,17 6:2 prize 12:21 47:5,25
49:24 40:18 41:1,6 predominantly probably 39:5 pure 17:10 20:5
18:2 46:9 48:6 50:9 prefer 48:14 49:3 47:8,12,24
29:24 51:25 53:16 preferable 9:18 problematic purposeful
38:18,19 54:16 preference 9:25 28:10,12 37:13
plans 53:2 13:20 29:3 problems 31:20 purposes 4:14
40:25 plan's 38:5 52:11 31:22 7:4 13:5 15:14
please 3:10 17:4 preferences proceeds 29:21 19:10 27:2
51:22 26:24 28:22 12:17 process 14:13 40:10
pluralistic 25:5 preferred 9:15 54:13 pursue 23:4
point 4:18,20 premise 13:3 produce 43:8 pursuing 50:1
19:22 20:4,24 preparing 27:7 17:14 18:6 23:8 47:17
26:4 32:13,14 prerequisites 47:5
31:9,10 48:21 50:2 prescribed 25:6 53:23 qualify 10:1
54:8 25:10 44:10 present 31:22 54:1,5,6,9 40:8 44:11
2:4,8,14 34:7,9,11 preserve 32:10 proportion 25:7 question 3:22,25
17:2 36:24 36:15 39:4 preserving proportionately 6:10 7:18,22
51:10 44:13 46:3 37:23 42:14 10:13 13:4
position 4:13 5:9 53:22 45:12 18:12 19:24
41:10 8:2,3,8,15 9:24 recognized respect 18:5 24:13
50:10 14:11,16 16:14 40:17 49:6 21:8 23:21 roughly 13:17
17:11,16 18:17 record 16:13,17 26:10 27:9,19 13:18 16:17,19
20:5,13,21 34:10 44:3,8 1:23 2:11 rule 47:7
18:21 23:6,7,23 24:7 redistricting 17:5 18:5 24:17
26:13,16 27:6 5:25 26:22 runs 14:20
46:25 37:18 39:11 reflected 32:16 responses 13:3 S 2:1 3:1
racially 6:21 regarding 52:19 49:18,24 saying 19:22
23:11 reiterated 3:21 result 5:11 23:15 43:3
25:8 26:11 retain 52:5 says 6:3 21:1
7:21 radically 12:17 relying 25:22 review 47:4,20 24:20
10:1,24 Rainier 23:11 26:17 47:22,23 Scalia 6:18,22
18:3,14 35:14 39:12,25 remain 36:22 richly 52:15 6:25 7:14 9:20
19:11 raised 41:10 remaining 51:8 rid 49:13 10:5 11:1,5,9
21:2,19 range 44:23 remarks 8:11 right 5:17,24 6:3 13:11 21:14,21
22:13,22 ratio 25:6 26:8 remedial 4:1 10:22 11:5,9 27:10 28:5,11
24:22 30:15 remember 41:7 14:13 16:1,7 28:14,22 29:7
32:17 rationale 42:25 repeatedly 8:8 22:15 29:5,11 34:13,16 36:25
34:25 reach 4:17 7:13 8:10 35:6 36:3,6 37:5,15,18
43:12 read 20:25 reply 51:18 41:8 53:9 38:1 43:12,19
45:4 35:20 52:6 report 34:21 Rights 49:15 43:25 44:6
47:4 reading 53:11 Reports 33:5 rigid 30:15 49:8,22
49:2 real 19:11 20:4 represented 33:14,16,17 Scalia's 29:20
50:24,25 22:19 29:3 20:10 52:12 34:24 school 1:7 3:5
52:11,22 49:11 request 10:23 ROBERTS 3:3 3:12,22 4:1,4
53:2 realized 32:22 require 40:19 15:7,10 16:23 4:22,25 5:13
35:24 38:20 47:21 54:2 26:2,19 30:13 9:3,4,13,13,16
realm 31:8 50:8 31:21 32:11 11:3,4,14 12:5
19:25 19:14 34:1 research 44:24 45:1,8 47:10 13:15 14:18
22:8 reasonable 37:9 residential 5:7 51:5 54:17 18:8 20:3,3,8
46:7 resort 34:4,22 Roe 16:3,10 20:10,11 21:4
5:4,10,17 2:12 51:9 resource 32:21 Roosevelt 53:6 23:3,16 24:12
7:8 received 11:11 resources 33:24 rough 13:22 25:2,5,11,12
26:16 scrutiny 18:20 sense 37:4,10 six 12:16 13:21 27:1,12
29:16 searches 49:14 48:3 skin 21:13 34:1 stated 8:12
seat 48:1,25 separate 42:12 38:12 47:14,17 statement 25:13
32:4 49:4 43:11 44:17,22 48:15,17 statements 8:18
36:14 seats 30:12 32:2 48:17 50:17,23 slight 29:19 States 1:1,14
34:6 45:6 49:1 separated 52:5 small 41:22 17:1 25:23
40:4,9,13 Seattle 1:7,17,22 separateness social 17:19 27:13 47:2,23
41:24 3:5,12 5:23 27:25 28:6 society 25:5 27:8 statewide 45:21
43:3,13 6:23 26:25 serves 47:24 29:10,18 state's 45:11
45:9,14 31:6 33:2 set 22:11,12 sole 7:10 19:10 statistics 51:13
46:22 35:23 36:15 33:16,17 40:17 31:23 status 30:24
41:20 43:6 seventh 15:4 solely 3:15 22:22 step 50:19
49:7 52:15 shift 12:17 22:24 23:9 Stevens 16:12
52:8,10 54:15 shorten 33:4 48:15 16:16 19:21
53:6 Seattle's 33:1 show 44:25 Solicitor 1:19 40:23 41:5
53:18 shown 10:16 4:7,11,12 7:19 51:15
5:3,11 33:13 34:10 52:12,14 sorry 30:22 47:9,25
7:4,5 see 6:1 12:15 53:17 35:18 stop 35:1,23
9:16,16,24 13:19 21:6 side 26:9 sort 19:25 20:20 stopped 35:1
11:18 24:15 32:6 significant 34:6 52:2
38:21 45:21 33:12 53:17 sorting 9:2 14:4 strategic 19:2
51:4 significantly sounds 41:8 22:4 23:1
17:6 seeking 23:17 32:7,9 39:3 Souter 8:9,21 33:24
18:13 27:3 similar 5:25 10:12 11:8 stray 33:20
seemingly 10:7 12:19 45:23 12:1 23:14,22 street 27:22,23
23:10,13 segregated 54:5 24:3,11 40:11 27:23 28:3
30:8 32:8 35:22 36:20,25 similarities 12:2 South 35:14,15 strict 18:20
37:1,2,3,8 similarity 12:4 41:20 43:6 31:15
50:21 Similarly 9:14 special 33:24,25 stricter 24:16
35:14,14 segregation 5:7 simply 3:18 20:4 specific 4:14 strictly 31:18
36:19 5:12 32:9 36:3 25:21 33:6 26:5 38:16 strike 19:16
37:9,13,16 47:16 52:23 47:22 strikes 3:16
38:21 49:5 simultaneously specifically 47:5 struck 27:1
50:13 52:17 32:20 54:5 47:20 student 14:14
44:10,13 select 20:1 single 21:17 specified 33:6 17:17 22:23
45:22,23 selecting 9:23 43:2 spread 42:14 33:6 34:1,8
47:6,25 selection 4:21 site 4:21,23,24 square 38:8 40:9 46:19
51:16,21 8:15 9:1 12:8 5:1 19:2,12 39:10 42:21 48:19
52:15,19 12:11,22 13:24 20:1 21:5 22:4 stage 24:10 students 7:5
14:1,3 19:2 23:1 24:12 standing 14:21 9:25 14:14
22:5 23:1 52:16 15:14,17,18 16:17,20 17:18
33:5 46:18 siting 23:16 19:14,22 20:19 18:2,2 22:20
self 43:24 44:2 16:6 39:12 state 11:8 22:10 39:2,2,18,22
41:18,19 T 2:1,1 11:23,25 12:19 trade-offs 40:19 7:14 10:20
42:2,17 tailored 24:21 12:23 14:8,11 traditional 12:1 14:22
45:2 40:21 16:1 18:16,18 28:19 37:2 47:23
46:9 tailoring 31:20 19:5,14,16,23 trajectory 33:1 understanding
51:2 31:22 33:15 20:5,18,22 transaction 16:5 15:16 54:14
40:21 take 4:12 5:18 23:8,10,22 treated 14:15 13:13 45:22
21:22 38:17 24:14,18 25:16 47:13 54:6,11
takes 26:10 27:17 28:6,8 treats 14:10 unit 27:11
49:15 31:7,18,19 tribes 27:20 17:1 25:23
24:1 talking 9:1 36:19,23 38:1 46:16 university 9:12
47:2 37:18,20,22 44:14 45:12 17:23 45:11,15 47:21
45:25 46:1 47:8 true 8:6 41:21 48:21
tasked 29:17 52:7,13,22 try 6:20 7:5 22:2,7
20:16,19,20 thinking 35:17 39:7,19 44:24 urge 47:23,24
52:25 tell 16:13 38:4 thinks 11:15 19:24 20:25 urging 50:7
17:2 telling 25:23 11:1 24:17,23 53:14 54:5,9 7:21 17:16
29:21 terms 13:17,18 48:4 49:23 turns 5:3 31:10 32:17
22:11,12 32:21 thousands 25:12 two 4:23 17:7 35:8,11 43:14
36:7 53:22 35:8 38:22 44:20 V
Thank 16:23 43:11 U value 11:13
12:11,22 51:5,11 54:17 time 14:20 15:5 34:25 46:23 40:18
14:1,4,4 theory 12:20 16:22 22:22 unacceptable variation 13:19
29:16 17:25 29:21 27:4 39:24 23:20 variety 19:16
42:15,16 51:4 unbalanced various 20:21
thing 12:24 14:4 timing 36:10 39:13 27:14
40:13 things 6:7 10:17 tipping 48:21 unconstitutio... verboten 26:16
46:19,24 21:18 27:17,22 today 3:4 8:4,8 21:15 versus 3:5 16:3
45:17,20 told 25:13 28:1,25 30:20 17:23
53:5,6 11:02 54:19 58 39:2
11:3 46:25 200 16:19 60 41:24
14:20 wide 13:19 2000 15:4 35:9 60-40 30:15 31:4
21:4 23:6 wondering 41:1 38:18,22,25 31:15,24
31:17 word 9:2 37:10 41:8 53:12,12 62 38:25 53:8
46:11 words 44:18 2000-2001 35:10
16:14 works 18:6 2005 38:19,23 7 22:1 51:17,19
22:21 world 19:11 39:1 51:21 75 41:19
39:22 20:5 22:19 53:17
2006 1:11 51:21 8
wouldn't 11:15 25 17:17 18:1
35:9 53:12
wrong 21:19 26 2:11
30:5 274 53:23
40:22 X
x 1:2,9 3
50:17 35:10,10,11 329-330 33:4
25:13 25:12 37:24
33:16 39:20 41:2 4
52:10,12 4 1:11
52:16 Z 40-60 24:13
16:20 45 17:18 24:1
46 39:2
18:2
1:6 3:4
22:23 5
35:25 1 50 23:25
1 1:8 3:5
29:22
41:11 10 38:19 51 2:14 53:7
42:1,16 10:01 1:15 3:2
33:5
