IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
CRYSTAL D. MEREDITH, :
CUSTODIAL PARENT AND :
NEXT FRIEND OF JOSHUA :
RYAN MCDONALD, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 05-915
JEFFERSON COUNTY BOARD :
OF EDUCATION, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, December 4, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
TEDDY B. GORDON, ESQ., Louisville, Ky.; on behalf
of the Petitioner.
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; as
amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner.
FRANCIS J. MELLEN, JR., ESQ., on behalf of the
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
TEDDY B. GORDON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
As amicus curiae, supporting the
Petitioner. 14
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
FRANCIS J. MELLEN, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
TEDDY B. GORDON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in 05-915, Meredith versus Jefferson County Board
of Education.
Mr. Gordon.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF TEDDY B. GORDON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GORDON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Crystal Meredith wanted to do what most moms
and dads do all across this country. She wanted to put
her son's hand in hers and walk around the corner and
enroll her son in school.
But the enrollment, there was a barrier, and
the pickaxe, that barrier was person satisfied as a
quota. There were seats within the school. It wasn't
at capacity. It wasn't near any one of the percentages
or tipping percentages that the quota system in
Jefferson County public schools applied. But she was
not allowed in.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was that because she
applied 4 months late? If she had applied before the
deadline in March, would you be here? Would there be
any issue?
MR. GORDON: Well, of course, Justice
Ginsburg, she moved into the system in August. When she
moved into the system, she was assigned to a school
called Breckenridge-Franklin, which was an all year
round school. Then she was -- her choice was managed
and she was sent an hour away from where her other
school is. She applied by transfer, which is the system
that you use.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where was she living
before?
MR. GORDON: I think she was living in
Florida, and she moved into Kentucky.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So she -- that was --
August was the first opportunity she had to apply?
MR. GORDON: Yes. So that's across the
board. Anyone that moves in, they are -- there is a
cluster school or an attempt school, and if you are not
-- a majority of the time you are not allowed there
because of your race. In other words, they want to
assign children to schools that don't have the greater
percentages of either African-American or Caucasian. So
in Bloom Elementary, although it was 67-33 -- and keep
in mind in kindergarten, according to their own rules
and regulations, didn't even apply. The plan was so
inflexible --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But she, she could
have -- if she had been there at the deadline, the child
would have been admitted to -- if she had been there in
March instead of August?
MR. GORDON: But the deadline applies to
that school which presumably is closest to one's
residence. Now, whether or not you get into that school
or don't get into the school still depends on the quota.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, we're past that.
When she didn't get the assignment that she requested
for her son --
MR. GORDON: Sure.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- did she appeal that?
MR. GORDON: She filed a transfer. The
transfer was denied. And at that time, litigation had
commenced and because litigation had commenced -- and
routinely these appeals are denied. All of her efforts
were futile.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about for first
grade? Did she make an application for first grade?
MR. GORDON: Me understanding is that she
did. That was denied, because the only time Joshua got
into --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's in the record,
that she made an application for the first grade?
MR. GORDON: I believe it is. I believe it
is. In either event, if she didn't it would have been
futile because we had already made her the third amended
complaint on behalf of all the parties, and we had asked
for injunctive relief within the litigation. But Joshua
did not get into the school because of -- until they
moved. They had to move a block away. So if you live
in one block and you can't get into that school, your
choice is managed. The plan was clearly inflexibility
and it didn't apply to kindergarten anyhow, but it still
caused our Joshua to go an hour away from his home.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you have a claim
for damages as well.
MR. GORDON: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: With respect to this
plaintiff?
MR. GORDON: Yes, Your Honor. I believe
it's the third amended complaint, the May 2nd complaint,
and there was a request for $25,000 damages.
And within these schools, in other words,
this honorable Court has never applied, other than in
remedial, has never applied compelling interest in a K
through 12 setting. In fact, those rights are not
co-extensive. The school -- this honorable Court has
previously stated in, for example, the Hazelwood case,
which was a First Amendment right case, that that didn't
apply to K through 12, or should it be 1 through 12
setting.
And in the Hazelwood case, that was a basic
First Amendment right and of course the First Amendment
right was exactly what Justice Powell championed as
academic freedom within the Bakke case. So clearly
Bakke and Grutter are distinguishable. This falls into
Gratz, where you clearly have a quota, not less than 15
or greater than 50 percent, is totally inflexible as
applied to our --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does it compare with
the system that was in effect from, what was it, 1975
until 2000?
MR. GORDON: I'm sorry. It's the same
remedial program that -- this Court has found even in
Dowd that when the remedial program has achieved its
result we should no longer carve out that exemption
under the Equal Protection Clause.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you think that there's
something of an anomaly there, that you have a system
that is forced on the school, that it doesn't want it,
works for 25 years, and then the school board doesn't
have to keep it any more, but it decides it's worked
rather well, so we'll keep it.
What's constitutionally required one day
gets constitutionally prohibited the next day. That's
very odd.
MR. GORDON: Well, I take issue that it
worked very well. In other words, did the Jefferson
County --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The board decided it
liked the way things were going, so it kept it or
something close to it.
MR. GORDON: Well, of course Brown versus
Topeka Board of Education was time applicable. If you
use time applicable now for the Jefferson County Public
Schools --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm talking about the
plan that they've had for 25 years, and they decided to
keep it.
MR. GORDON: And in the Hampton case, which
I won, all right, they didn't go to any race-neutral
alternatives at all. As Justice Kennedy pointed out --
I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Gordon, in responding
to Justice Ginsburg's question, don't you have to deal
with the fact that this Court said in the second Swann
case that the -- that a school district, particularly a
school district like Swann which had been in violation,
had been found in violation, had the same interest after
unitary status had been attained in maintaining the
unitary status as it had in reaching unitary status
beforehand; that if those interests are identical why
doesn't it follow that the means to achieve those two
interests, unitary status from segregation in one case,
preservation of unitary status in the other, are
reasonable if they are identical?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Souter, this
Court over and over again has said once a remedial plan
is accepted there should be race-neutral alternatives
under the narrow and tailored requirement. What this
school board did after I won --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Race-neutral alternatives
for what? To accomplish what?
MR. GORDON: To accomplish the same means.
In other words, what they could have done, as
Justice Kennedy pointed out, was put more magnet
schools, more traditional schools, have more open
enrollment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Gordon, isn't it the
case that once you've achieved unitary status, which
means that the effects of past intentional
discrimination have been eliminated, the only way you
can lose unitary status is to discriminate
intentionally? Isn't that right?
MR. GORDON: Certainly. That's the Dow
case, that says you no longer --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And isn't there a
distinction between unitary status and unitary
condition? Unitary condition is a descriptive
situation. It describes a district in which there is,
in fact, enough of a racial mix so that there is no
credible claim either that there is de facto or de jure
segregation; isn't that correct? There is such a thing
as unitary, a unitary condition?
MR. GORDON: Certainly.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And is the preservation of
a unitary condition a legitimate or indeed a compelling
governmental objective?
MR. GORDON: In Hampton, this -- our Court
found that it was unitary status as opposed to unitary
condition.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Uh-huh.
MR. GORDON: If you want to go with unitary
condition, then I still think you go back to Brown and
you say has it worked. In other words, let's make it
time applicable. Does this honorable Court --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What do you mean, it
doesn't work? I don't understand.
MR. GORDON: It hasn't worked. It just
absolutely hasn't worked. So we've decided --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I don't understand what it
is that hasn't worked.
MR. GORDON: Why do we have to choose
between diversity and educational outcome? I thought it
was supposed to be both. Why can't we have diverse --
why can't we have them both. It's not diversity or
educational outcome. It's diversity and educational
outcome. For 30 years in this country --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I think that's what your
friends on the other side are arguing.
MR. GORDON: No. The friends on the other
side are arguing that there's some type of improvement
in educational outcome solely because you sit black
children next to white children.
JUSTICE BREYER: Not an improvement exactly,
but maybe from the Constitution's point of view. That
Constitution wanted, as they said in the Slaughterhouse
cases, to take people who had formerly been slaves and
their children and make them full members of American
society. And part of that was that the State couldn't
insist that they go to separate schools.
Now, the question from a constitutional
point of view that you're being asked is how could that
Constitution which says that this is intolerable, that
segregated school, and insist that the school boards in
Swann and elsewhere take the black children and white
children and integrate them? How could the Constitution
the day that that decree is removed tell the school
board it cannot make that effort any more, it can't do
what it's been doing, and we'll send the children back
to their black schools and their white schools?
That I take it is why the Court in Swann
said explicitly that you could use race as a factor in
the public schools when the school board so chooses.
Now, that's the general question that I think
Justice Ginsburg began and Justice Souter was following
it up. And I would appreciate your response.
MR. GORDON: My response is that you have
those series of cases that say once you've achieved the
unitary status, you know longer get to carve out that
exemption to the Fourteenth Amendment, and if we're
going to carve out these exemptions to the Fourteenth
Amendment, if we're going to say we're going to not
apply Gratz where it's a quota system and we are solely,
without any type of individual holistic review applied
to these kids, then there should be some improvement in
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How would you apply a
holistic review to a kindergartner?
MR. GORDON: Well, of course this system
didn't apply to kindergarten anyhow. But the answer is
it's not. You have to decide.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I can understand an
approach to an applicant for an elite school and so you
judge it on all these merit factors and other factors.
But for a child entering the first grade, I don't
understand this individualized holistic approach. What
else is there other than that the child is of a certain
age and therefore will enter a certain grade?
MR. GORDON: That it would violate your
ruling in Gratz --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I want to know -- you
said that there are alternate, alternative means, so I'm
asking what they are.
MR. GORDON: Out of Hampton, there was no
race-neutral -- race alternative means used. For me, I
would use all these millions of dollars. I would reduce
teacher-student ratio. I would -- I would give
incentive pay to the better teachers. I would more
magnet schools, more traditional schools. We presuppose
that we're going to have bad schools and good schools in
this country. I don't think we can no longer, longer
accept that.
We can no longer accept an achievement gap
of 25 to 30 points by the majority of African American
kids in Jefferson County, Kentucky, and throughout this
country by the fourth grade. Educational outcome is the
only key, the only key to unlock the chains of poverty.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it's not that white
children and black children are no longer sitting
together on the same school benches?
MR. GORDON: Then let's make sure they go to
the better schools. In Jefferson County, Kentucky,
racial politics is involved when we had so much white
flight. African Americans in Jefferson County,
Kentucky, the largest percent go to the worst performing
schools. The lowest percent go to the better performing
schools. That can't be constitutional. That can't be
discriminatory, and that can't be an exemption under the
Fourteenth Amendment and Equal Protection.
I'd like to save a little bit, the remainder
of my time, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
Petitioner's son was denied the opportunity
to transfer from Young Elementary School to Bloom
Elementary School solely on the basis of his race.
JUSTICE STEVENS: General Clement, can I ask
you a question that's prompted really by your argument
in the last case. I wonder about the purity of the
motive that's required. Supposing you had a city like
Chicago with a neighborhood school system and in one
neighborhood there was a school that was 100 percent
African American, both student body and faculty, and up
on the North Side there's a school that's 100 percent
white, both students and faculty. Would it be
permissible for the school board to decide that it would
be healthy for both schools to have five African
American schools in the North Side school and five white
teachers in the South Side school?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Stevens --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And then order that, hire
teachers to do that?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think I'd have to -- I
mean, I think it would depend --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The only purpose is racial
integration.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think if you build into
the hypo that the only purpose was race and then it was
done in a way that made it express that the teachers
were going to be moved, that you were basically going to
have five and five, you were going to have a quota at
the two schools on the basis of race, I would say that
that would be unconstitutional.
I would think, though, that there are many
ways you can accomplish similar objectives without
making it so explicit. And I do think that in this
context, I mean, there is an independent constitutional
value in not having these kind of express racial
classifications drawn.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I understand, and I'm just
wondering whether in your view that independent value
could ever be trumped by the obvious countervailing
value of having some African Americans see some white
teachers and vice versa?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Oh, but I think that's the
point, which is that is an important objective, but I
have little doubt that that can be accomplished without
the kind of five by five quotas.
JUSTICE BREYER: You have doubt -- you have
little doubt. Are you an educational expert? I mean,
the -- it seems to me from what I read, that there is a
terrible problem in the country. The problem is that
there are lots and lots of school districts that are
becoming more and more segregated in fact, and that
school boards all over are struggling with this problem.
And if they knew an easy way, they'd do it.
So I don't know whether this is exactly the
only way to do it or not. I do know courts are not very
good at figuring that out. And I guess that's why the
Court previously has said it is primarily up to the
school district. What's your response?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Whatever it takes.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Breyer, if I could
be clear, though, what I was saying in response to
Justice Stevens' question was really focused not on the
broader problem, but specifically with respect to
faculties. And I think that one is a little easier in
the sense that I don't know of any school districts that
have tried to maintain the kind of express quotas in
teaching that he was indicating. I'm not here to tell
you that this problem is simple to solve. I'm here to
tell you, though, that I think the Constitution provides
an answer.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Just say some. We want
to -- we're going to make a decision there will be some
white teachers and some African-American teachers in the
other. And we're going to do it no matter -- if the
Constitution permits it. And that's our only motive.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Stevens, let
me tell you what I certainly think they could do, which
is to say, look, you know, we don't have any balance in
these two faculties. What we're going to do is we're
going to mix some of them up, we're going to do it in a
way that looks at a variety of factors, including who is
good with young kids, who is good with older kids.
JUSTICE STEVENS: My example is 100 percent
motive to avoid 100 percent segregation.
GENERAL CLEMENT: And I think if what they
end up doing at the end is not only a hundred percent
motive, but a racial classification, then I think runs
afoul of the Constitution.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Just some, any without
violating the Constitution.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Just to be clear, our
answer to the hypothetical a hundred percent motivation,
no racial classification, is that it is still okay.
Now, some members of the Court may disagree with us on
that. But what I would say is it probably doesn't have
that great an import in practice, because although it is
easy to come up with the hypothetical that race is the
absolute and sole motivating factor, I think in this
context in particular, I mean, nobody -- you know,
nobody is trying to do this solely for a race-based
motive. In this context, they also have an educational
goal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General Clement, do
you know how Joshua would have been assigned prior to
the establishment of unitary status in this case?
GENERAL CLEMENT: He would clearly have been
assigned to one school, and one set of schools on the
basis of his race.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't know
whether that would have been the magnet or the so-called
resides school or somewhere else?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, I guess I don't. And
maybe I'm missing something. But I think that -- you
know, the dual school system predated the court ordered
decree, which is part of where we have gotten to with
resides schools and the like. If I can come back to the
facts of this case, I think it's important to recognize
that he was denied transfer to Bloom, even though there
were empty seats available at Bloom school.
So if he had been an African-American, he
would have been allowed to transfer to Bloom. Instead,
he was prevented. And there was an empty seat sitting
there in that school. And that's why I think this case
does prevent a very stark racial quota.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I ask you this, and I
think this applies to the case we have got, as well as
to Justice Stevens' hypothetical. You said in
Justice Stevens' -- in answer to Justice Stevens'
hypothetical, that they could achieve a result,
legitimately achieve a result of racial mixture within
the respective faculties of these schools if they took
other things in addition to race into consideration.
You mentioned ability as teachers and so on.
But at the end of the day, the object of
doing this, which Justice Stevens' hypo assumed, and I
think the object of doing it which your answer assumed,
was the achievement of racial mixture in the faculties.
My question is: Why do thy have to hide the
ball by saying, oh, we're going to consider these other
things, ability to teach, educational credits, whatever
you could come up with when at the beginning and at the
end, the objective is to achieve a racial mix?
Why can't they do that candidly and employ a
criterion that candidly addresses that objective?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Souter,
there are several responses. One is that the
Constitution puts a particular premium on avoiding
express racial classifications.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And it has developed that
concern in cases in which the obvious use of race was to
hurt or to stigmatize. Here, there is stigmatization
going on as between black and white, when we say there
is a value in mixing them up.
Therefore, why should that same concern
about referring to race at all be applied in this case.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Souter, you
may have developed that jurisprudence in cases where it
was clear there was stigma going on, but you have
extended it in Croson and in Adarand across the board.
And I have to say --
JUSTICE SOUTER: We have extended it in
cases in which benefits were being denied. In
Justice Stevens' hypothetical, and so far as I know in
the kindergarten system in these cases, no educational
benefit was being denied.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Nothing was being rationed.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think choices were
being denied. And I think you made the distinction
earlier between an educational -- guarantee of some
educational opportunity and a choice. But --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that is simply another
way -- when you say it is the choice that's being
denied, and that has to be the focus of the analysis,
that is simply another way of saying you may never use
the means of race-conscious distribution to achieve the
educational objective. You're saying the same thing in
a different way.
GENERAL CLEMENT: That may be,
Justice Souter. But what I guess I would say is the
logic of your argument would certainly require
reconsideration of the Gratz case. And this Court in
that context thought that individualized consideration
even if it was going to be very difficult in the context
of the University of Michigan's 25,000 admissions to the
undergraduate program, this Court said individualized
consideration was part of the constitutional guarantee.
JUSTICE SOUTER: In Gratz, the
characteristics of individuals that could be considered
were arguably relevant to a distribution decision.
Here, the sole point is not to achieve a quota by
relaxing other standards. The whole point is to achieve
a value which comes from mixing the races, from
distribution.
And, therefore, why is it appropriate to
look to other things as opposed to looking at that
candidly, if that is a legitimate objective?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Because I think,
Justice Souter, if you think it is an important value to
have a degree of integration in the schools, well, I
think you can take race neutral means that will get you
a degree of integration in the schools. What I think is
troubling, and what happens in cases like this --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you may use those race
neutral means only for the purpose of achieving that
mixture. I take it that's the assumption of your
answer.
GENERAL CLEMENT: That's right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: The objective is fine. The
important thing is simply to hide the ball.
GENERAL CLEMENT: But if you decide that
candor is an affirmative good in the use -- in the race
area, I think what you get is necessarily what you have
here, which is strict racial bands. 50, 15 percent.
That's not a degree of integration. It is a clear
effort to try to get the individual schools to mimic the
overall demographics --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why is -- I'm trying to
find out -- I understand what you think of Gratz. We
can agree or disagree about that. But the overall view
of the Constitution, that interpretation that you have
in your mind, if it really forbids it, no use of race, I
mean, basically -- all right? Think -- go back to
Cooper versus Aaron. Go back to the case where this
Court with paratroopers had to use tremendous means to
get those children into the school. That's because the
society was divided.
Here we have a society, black and white, who
elect school board members who together have voted to
have this form of integration. Why, given that change
in society -- which is a good one -- what -- how can the
Constitution be interpreted in a way that would require
us, the judges, to go in and make them take the black
children out of the school?
See, my objection to your approach to the
Constitution is primarily a practical one.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I understand that,
Justice Breyer. But I think the answer to that is that
the lesson of history in this area is that racial
classifications are not ones where we should just let
local school board officials do what they think is
right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Are you prepared to just
say, all right, they can do it some, just be careful
about it? How far will you go with that?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think everybody concedes
that strict scrutiny is going to apply here.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So you're
saying we'll do it some, just be careful about it?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, we would -- you know,
I think we would have to look at the details of the
plan. That's what narrow tailoring meant. And I think
that's what -- you know, Justice Kennedy made the point
in his opinion in Grutter that the problem with
approving the first blunderbuss opportunity that you see
to use race in a context is that then you deprive the
courts of any role trying to refine matters, and seeing,
maybe the racial situation would be narrowly tailored,
but it is sure not these 50-15 bands.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Judge Kozinski thought the
real problem here was we should not deify strict
scrutiny. That's what's caused all the problems.
GENERAL CLEMENT: And Justice Stevens, he
probably could have cited two of your opinions for that
proposition. But you know, the rest of us do have to
work with --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It is often true that
sometimes doctrines do have unintended consequences when
you push the logic of extremes. There is no doubt about
that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: There's no doubt about
that, but the rest of us do have to work with this
Court's precedents --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And they also have
unintended consequences when this Court ignores them.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Absolutely. And it also
has some real world consequences when we decides we're
not going to apply the normal scrutiny we would to
racial classifications just because we've made some -- I
don't know based on what judgment that in this case, it
is benign, so we can trust the local school officials.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, it isn't that we've
made a judgment, the local school board has made a
judgment which has a lot of experience under both
systems.
GENERAL CLEMENT: There's a lot of
experience in Brown, too, and those were local school
boards, too. And I think the lesson is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do we know the race of the
school board here? I mean, that was not -- how do we
know these are benign school boards? Is it stipulated
that they are benign school boards?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I missed that in the joint
stipulation, Justice Scalia. I would like to say one --
if I could make one point here, which is, I really do
think that it's worth looking at how this operates in
practice. And the fact that it leaves seats effectively
fallow in schools. Because that really marks it as a
quota. And it's interesting, when that same district
court judge --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was that how it worked
under the plan that was forced on the school district?
I thought it was roughly the same plan?
GENERAL CLEMENT: It was, Justice Ginsburg.
But I think there's a difference when you move past
unitary status. It's interesting. In the very case
where the court, Hampton II, where the same district
court found unitary status, he then because the Equal
Protection Clause was not shielded by the decree, had to
apply it to the use of these same racial bands in the
context of magnet schools.
And what did this same district court judge
find there? He found they operated, quote, as a hard
racial quota. Because the effect of these 50-15 bands
was to keep hundreds of seats at Central High School, a
popular magnet school empty, and away from
African-American students because the district wanted to
maintain its predetermined racial balance.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Am I right in thinking
that the government in 2000 opposed terminating this --
the compulsory plan?
GENERAL CLEMENT: You mean the United States
government?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Or the school board? They
actually both opposed, which is something -- shows you
something of the anomalies that you can get from this
situation, which is the school board wanting to continue
its practice of using these racial guidelines actually
opposed the finding of unitary status. I would say,
though --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought it was the
United States?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Yeah, we had some specific
objections in which we thought that two of the green
factors were not satisfied. That argument was rejected
by the district court.
If I can go back to the judge's finding
about the magnet schools, what is so interesting is the
same judge finds the same guidelines to be a hard racial
quota as to the magnet schools, but not as to the
neighborhood schools. Why does he make that
distinction? Because he finds that the neighborhood
schools are basically equal, and therefore, denying a
student an opportunity to attend to one rather than
another was not an injury of constitutional magnitude.
But I would have thought it is far too late
in the day, and the Chief Justice suggested this as
well, to say that just because two schools are basically
equal, you can deny a student the right to attend one,
and assigns one and only one based on his race. Thank
you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
General Clement.
Mr. Mellen?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF FRANCIS J. MELLEN, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. MELLEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case presents a story of a community
that once maintained racially segregated schools, that
desegregated those schools only when a court ordered it,
and that today maintains racially integrated schools
with broad community support.
This case presents a story of a board of
education that replaced a desegregation decree with a
student assignment plan that works, that stopped the
white flight that was the result of the desegregation
decree and has stabilized enrollment in our public
schools. This case presents a success story and it's a
success that was achieved in compliance with this
Court's strict scrutiny test.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does this case present the
story where the meaning of Brown versus Board of
Education is you can never take race out of politics?
MR. MELLEN: I think, Your Honor, that Brown
is very much distinguishable. In Brown, the Topeka
board maintained two systems of schools. And admission
to those schools, admission, not assignment, was based
solely on race. That stigmatized the black children.
It sent the message that the white race was dominant and
superior and that the black race was inferior. That
caused great harm to those black students and this Court
properly remediated it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And this doesn't? I mean,
this which is somehow based on the notion that a school
that is predominantly black or overwhelmingly black
cannot be as good as a school that is predominantly
white or overwhelmingly white? That doesn't send any
message?
MR. MELLEN: The plan, Your Honor, is not
based solely on that supposition. This plan is based on
the supposition that a school that is racially
identifiable, and that would include a white racially
identifiable school, does not provide to the students in
that school the compelling benefits that our board
believes are presented by racial integration.
The compelling benefits, some of which are
the benefits that this Court identified in Grutter, from
the racial diversity that was a byproduct --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're talking about white
flight, you're not talking about black flight. And
what's going on here is makes sure that there are a
certain number of white students or as high a proportion
as you can get. In schools that would be otherwise be
overwhelmingly black. And it seems to me if you are
appealing to stigmatization, that -- that is based on an
assumption that it seems to me is stigmatizing.
MR. MELLEN: This plan -- and the Federal
courts have held for years school districts do have an
interest in avoiding white flight. And As I said, this
plan has prevented -- has stopped white flight and has
stabilized enrollment in our schools.
But this -- this plan was adopted, Your
Honor, for the purpose of providing the compelling
benefits of racial integration, some of which this Court
identified in Grutter, some of which the District Court
found were not present in the University of Michigan Law
School case, but are present in an elementary and
secondary system of schools. For example, the District
Court found that this plan makes our public schools more
competitive and attractive and results in broader
community support for those schools.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I, I think that's probably
true. I think it is also probably true that the people
in your community and the people on your school board
are acting in the utmost good faith. And that what they
have done is going to help the education of many
students.
The question is whether or not we can say
that an insincere school board, people that want to play
the race card, who want to play the race trip, the --
the race chip, that want a system in which they can use
race for political advantage, can do this based on the
color of the individual child's skin. That's what's
involved here.
MR. MELLEN: I don't think that's what is
involved in this case, Your Honor, because the District
Court found that the board's motives were indeed
legitimate and that there was no basis --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm conceding that. The
Constitution assumes that this might not always be the
case. Are we going to look at the sincerity of the
school boards, school by school board, school board
member by school board member?
MR. MELLEN: I don't think that would be
proper for the courts to do that, Your Honor, but the
other issue that's presented by these cases is whether
the use of race is narrowly tailored. And the District
Court found in this case that it was, was for a variety
of reasons. So I think that this case does not, Your
Honor, present the hypothetical that you suggested and
in other cases with different factors --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it, but it presents
the principle that this Court is confronted with. If we
for the first time say that a system that has achieved
unitary status. So that the courts no longer have the
authority or the need to supervise them, can then turn
around and use individual skin color as a basis for
assignment, we've never said that. And that takes us on
a very perilous course.
MR. MELLEN: You've never said it, Your
Honor and the question has never been presented. A
similar question was presented in the University of
Michigan Law School case. And this Court held the use
of a racial classification to satisfy a compelling
interest and in a narrowly tailored manner --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In the university cases
this Court ran as far away as it could from using racial
quotas. It talked about the fact that there was an
individualized assessment. At, at issue was a
university student who could understand the reasons for
being rejected on, on the grounds of race, race being
one criteria. That isn't this case.
MR. MELLEN: That's not this case, Your
Honor, because our board asserts a different compelling
interest. The compelling interest asserted by the
Michigan Law School was viewpoint diversity. A
different kind of -- it's a byproduct of that.
This Court asserts an interest in -- this
board, I'm sorry, asserts an interest in racial
integration and we believe that there are compelling
benefits from racial integration and that this board
provides them to all students, both black and white.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Once again, once again,
one of the rationales for the law school cases was a
First Amendment rationale. And you, and I think
properly so, say that this is, this is not your
interest. I agree with you. But that means that that
case is completely inapplicable to help you.
MR. MELLEN: I don't think it's completely
inapplicable, Your Honor, because this case presents the
same basic doctrinal question that was presented in
Grutter, whether a Government agency can use race as a
classification with a compelling interest with narrow
tailoring. This Court in Grutter identified several
benefits of racial diversity. Some of those benefits
are presented in the elementary and secondary school
context. And we have additional benefits that are
presented by racial integration.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Mellen, here is a
question I should have asked friends on the other side.
But I think it is raised by Justice Kennedy's question,
so let me put it out.
Are there circumstances under which there is
reason to suspect the motivation of school districts
when they come up with a plan in effect to require a
mixing of the races in the schools that is more or less
tailored to the relative percentages in the communities?
Is -- are there circumstances in which that would be
done for malign as opposed to benign purposes?
MR. MELLEN: I think it could be, Your
Honor. And this Court has said --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And what -- give me some,
or give me or an example.
MR. MELLEN: Your Honor, I'm not sure I can
think of one because I come from a community with a long
history of, of not doing that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Easy. Easy. Take a school
district that is overwhelmingly minority. And --
overwhelmingly black, if you will. And a school board
that reflects that. And in which by reason of
residential patterns, the white schools, despite the
same expenditure of money, same level of teaching and
everything else, the white schools are better schools.
And the school board could decide we would
like our race to get into those better white schools.
Not because we want mixing. We just want, want them to
get into those schools.
Wouldn't that be a situation in which the
board could then come up with a -- you know, these good
schools ought to have 80 percent blacks in them? I
would not consider that a benign objective.
MR. MELLEN: There might be, Your Honor,
under those circumstances a compelling interest in doing
that. The question would be whether it is narrowly
tailored. But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think there's a
compelling interest in doing it at all. They're doing
it for a racially selfish reason. They want their
constituency, they want the 80 percent of black
students, to be in the better schools. You consider
that a valid interest, and a non-racial interest?
MR. MELLEN: No. No, Your Honor. Of course
with that explanation, I do not.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you think the school
board in that case would use the clumsy means of racial
integrational mixing as opposed simply to devoting more
money to the black schools?
MR. MELLEN: I would certainly think, Your
Honor, that a wise school board would use other methods
to achieve that result. Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I would think so, too.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why did you say -- in
truth, maybe I missed it. In your response to
Justice Kennedy, I think you said, when he asked, that
this Court has never said that the explicit use of race
by a K through 12 school board was constitutional, and I
thought the Court had explicitly said that in Swann.
MR. MELLEN: I, I --
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought that, that
Justice Powell explicitly said it. I that Chief Justice
Rehnquist had explicitly said it. I thought if you went
back in sense to the slaughterhouse cases, you'll find
in 1872, this Court thought that the primary objective,
the primary objective of that Fourteenth Amendment was
to take people who had been formerly slaves and to bring
them into this society, and that all of phrases of that
amendment should be interpreted with that objective in
mind. I mean, it didn't say that explicitly there, but
it seems explicitly and implicitly this Court has said
that.
MR. MELLEN: Well, I agree, Justice Breyer.
And I misspoke, I used one word incorrectly. I said --
I should have said this Court has not held. I agree
with General Clement that Swann was dictum, but a very
strong dictum. And we do think it applies here.
Dictum.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I think -- I think
we were communicating. Swann was a case where there was
de jure discrimination. Bakke was a university case.
This is a different case.
MR. MELLEN: It is indeed a different case,
Your Honor. We do not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it's, and it's a
troubling case.
MR. MELLEN: We do not contend, Your Honor,
that the purpose of this plan is to remediate past
discrimination against black students. This plan is
intended to provide benefits to both black and white
students.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your arguments do
not depend in any way on the prior de jure segregation?
MR. MELLEN: They do not, Your Honor. We
would agree that we stand on the same footing as the
Seattle district, as a unitary district this case needs
to be measured against whether a board has a compelling
interest and -- or board feels quite strongly that there
is compelling interest for the racial classification
that's employed in --
JUSTICE BREYER: What about the other part?
Because I think the Solicitor General -- I hope, I don't
want to put words in his mouth -- but I think he agrees
that Brown held out the promise of an equal education,
that the country worked for 35 or 40 years to try to get
a degree of integration, and that maintaining it is
important. I think the Government agrees with that.
They think this case goes too far. And in that I think
he's referring to narrow tailoring. It isn't narrowly
tailored enough. So I would appreciate knowing why you
think it is.
MR. MELLEN: We think it is, Your Honor, for
the very reasons that the District Court held it is.
The District Court addressed each of these points
regarding narrow tailoring which this Court identified
in Grutter, looked at them very carefully and concluded
that it is narrowly tailored. One of that issues that's
already been discussed this morning is individual
consideration. We agree with the position that the
Circuit Court took in the Ninth Circuit that in a
situation in which the compelling interest is racial
integration, that it makes no sense to take into account
other background characteristics of students other than
their race.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If it were to become
relevant, would this record show -- this is the school
district -- and this would be in the regime of the
Court-ordered desegregation plan, because you are just
recently emerged from that -- that the school district
has tried means other than race conscious, of race
classification in order to obtain the diversity benefits
you seek?
MR. MELLEN: The school district has, Your
Honor. In fact this plan uses those --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And were those magnet
schools? And could you tell me about that?
MR. MELLEN: Magnet schools, Your Honor.
And with respect to history, Your Honor, it is somewhat
complex, because although the Court ruled in the Hampton
case in 2000 that the degree was dissolved then, the
board honestly felt beginning in 1981 that the decree
had been dissolved. And so the board in 1984, 1991,
1996 made what it thought were voluntary modifications
to the plan.
Beginning in the late 1980s, the board began
to introduce more choice into the system including
magnet schools, magnet programs. The board uses race
neutral lotteries to determine enrollment in some
schools. But the board feels and it feels very strongly
based on conversations that board members and staff
people have had with other school districts that have
tried race-neutral measures including Charlotte
Mecklenburg, Wake county and San Francisco -- that
race-neutral measures alone will not do the job and the
experience in those districts indicates that they will
not do the job.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But your starting place
was the plan that was compulsory, that was forced on the
school district in 1975? That is basically the same
kind of plan?
MR. MELLEN: Well, Your Honor, I would say
that the starting point was that plan. The board has
modified it considerably since then to make assignments
more stable and predictable, to make the use of race
more narrowly tailored. It is in concept the same plan,
because it has some of the features, but the board has
added many features that that plan did not have.
The 1975 desegregation decree was really
quite a blunt instrument and that's why it was so
controversial in the community. That's why there was
massive white flight. This plan, this board has very
wisely modified that plan to make it much more
acceptable to the community so that we stopped the white
flight. We stabilized our enrollment. We have a
community now that very broadly, the public opinion
surveys show, that supports racial integration whereas
in 1975, they were opposed to it, sometimes violently.
This is as I said at the outset a success
story.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What would happen if you
couldn't use this system?
MR. MELLEN: And that would depend, Your
Honor, on what this Court said we could not use.
We do know that four of our schools, magnet
schools are now not subject to racial guidelines because
of the District Court's decision in the Hampton 2 case.
One of those schools, Central High School, is far
outside the racial guidelines. It has a black
enrollment of about 83 percent. At two of those other
magnet schools black enrollment has declined. It's
declined by about by about a third in two of those
schools. And that is only in the space of a few years.
Our school board staff has conducted some
hypothetical scenarios as to what would happen without
the racial guidelines. Some hypothetical scenarios
involve choice. Some involve purely neighborhood
schools. All of those scenarios show substantial
resegregation, particularly in elementary schools.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do any of those study the
possibilities of the system in which you elect to go
into a system where race counts?
MR. MELLEN: Some of those scenarios, Your
Honor, did have some degree of choice.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are they written out
anywhere we can see them? Or are there articles on
this?
MR. MELLEN: They are not in the record in
this case, Your Honor. They were in the record in the
Hampton case, so if you read the Hampton 2 opinion you
will see that the district court included a lengthy
footnote in which he basically summarized those
scenarios.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you say your plan has
the overwhelming support of the community, does
"community" mean those parent who have children in
the schools?
MR. MELLEN: Some of the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me that ought
to be the really -- the people who are the objects of
this experiment. Do they think it's doing --
MR. MELLEN: They do indeed, Your Honor.
Those surveys were surveys by the University of Kentucky
Research Center of parents.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And did the parents'
satisfaction with it break out along racial lines? Or
was it evenly divided?
MR. MELLEN: It was fairly evenly divided,
Your Honor. One of our expert witnesses said that --
well, both of them said that they were quite surprised
that the findings were so positive. One of the expert
witnesses said that unquestionably this is a community
that values diversity.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is that?
MR. MELLEN: That's the testimony of Edward
Kiefer, Your Honor, from the university of Kentucky. He
was responsible for the survey --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And he's talking about the
parents of students in the school?
MR. MELLEN: That's correct, Your Honor.
That's -- there are some other surveys, I believe, that
include the entire community. But I think you'll see in
the record some that are parents only.
I would like, Your Honor, Justice Ginsburg,
to respond very briefly to some of the facts concerning
Joshua, because you asked about that. There is nothing
in the record that says that Ms. Meredith moved into the
district in Florida just when she showed up at
Breckenridge-Franklin. With respect to her appeal, in
fact the litigation had not commenced when she would
have had an opportunity to file an appeal. The
stipulation of facts says that she did not apply for
Joshua for the first grade.
Now, Ms. Bloom -- excuse me. Ms. Meredith
-- and this is not in the record because it took place
after the record was closed -- but Ms. Meredith
reapplied for a transfer after Joshua finished the first
grade. That transfer was initially denied. She
appealed. The transfer was granted and Joshua does now
attend Bloom. I think that's relevant because the
Solicitor General made an argument in his brief that
this plan allows the student to be trapped in a school.
We would certainly not agree that an assignment to any
one of our fine schools could be a trap. But in any
event, students can reapply each year and that has
happened. It happened here in the case of Joshua --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me, how is
race used? Do the administrators have discretion in the
weight they will give to it on a case by case basis?
MR. MELLEN: I don't think exactly, Your
Honor. Race is used, as the district court found,
really as the final factor, a tipping factor. Residence
comes into play. Choice comes into play. Lotteries in
some schools come into play.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure how to ask
the question: Is it used fairly evenly across the board
when it is the tiebreaker?
MR. MELLEN: We don't used the word
"tiebreaker," Your Honor. The record indicates --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: To tip the tipping point,
whatever.
MR. MELLEN: The record indicates that race
would be the dispositive factor in no more than 2 to 3
percent of the choice applications.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That means -- that leads
to the question of why do they need it?
MR. MELLEN: I think they need it, Your
Honor, because it sets a boundary. It defines what
racial integration means. If staff had come to this
board with a plan that said, our goal is racial
integration --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it's symbolic that race
counts?
MR. MELLEN: I don't think so, Your Honor.
I think it simply sets the outer limits within which our
process of choice and other methods of assignment works.
Without that boundary, it could be transgressed one
student at a time.
The guidelines I think are very much like
the little boy in the Dutch story who put his finger in
the dike because a few drops of water were coming out.
He knew it would become a flood eventually if he didn't
do that. We think that is exactly the case here, that
without these guidelines one student at a time could
transgress them and ultimately we would have a
resegregated school system.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Mellen, I've been
looking at Dr. Kiefer's testimony. Is this what you're
referring to: "There was remarkable agreement among
every group in Jefferson County Public Schools about how
desirable having diversity in the schools was"?
MR. MELLEN: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I have no double about
that. I mean, if you're going to ask anybody, you know,
do you prefer integrated schools or would you prefer
lily-white schools, nobody is going to say give me a
lily-white school. Of course nobody's going to say
that.
I was asking whether the parents whose kids
can't go to the schools they want to go to, including
the neighborhood schools, do they like this particular
system of achieving the racial diversity? Is there any
testimony about that?
MR. MELLEN: The great majority do, Your
Honor. And I think if you look at the University of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Black and white alike?
MR. MELLEN: Black and white alike, in large
numbers. No plan, Your Honor, can be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do we know that?
MR. MELLEN: Again, Your Honor, the
University of Kentucky survey, which is in the record --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is in the record?
MR. MELLEN: -- broke it down by race among
parents. It asked whether guidelines were proper. It
asked whether assignment on socioeconomic status would
be preferred. There are a lot of questions in that
survey and I think you might find --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not in your joint
appendix here?
MR. MELLEN: It's not in the joint appendix.
It's an exhibit, I believe, to the stipulation of facts,
Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There were questions
earlier about the status of the particular plaintiff.
You're not challenging standing or raising mootness, are
you?
MR. MELLEN: No, we're not, Your Honor.
We're not challenging standing. We're simply saying
that Ms. Meredith did not suffer undue harm within the
meaning of this Court's decisions and that parents as a
whole and students as a whole do not suffer undue harm.
There have questions in the first case about
an end point. I might address that briefly. We believe
that the use of race in this plan is self-limiting in
several respects. If racially segregated housing in
Jefferson County continues to decline, which it has
somewhat since the 1970s, and the board has reason to
believe that the presence of racially integrated schools
during that period contributed to that -- there are
several amicus briefs that were filed in this case that
set forth research that supports that conclusion. If
racially segregated housing continues to decline and if
this plan meets its purpose of diminishing racial
stereotypes and promoting better cross-racial
understanding throughout the community, we can foresee a
time when this board will not see a reason to use this
plan or may modify it further to make it even less
restrictive.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In a time horizon
longer or shorter than the 25-year time horizon that was
discussed in Grutter?
MR. MELLEN: I can't predict the future,
Your Honor. I can say it could be shorter for another
reason. That is that this plan is inherently subject to
democratic review by elected school board and by the
voters. It could end sooner than that if the board and
the voters change their minds. I can't predict whether
it might end longer than that. I can only say that this
board has a long history of modifying the plan. As I
said, they modified it in 1984, 1991, 1996, 2001. It's
in the very nature of how a board of education works
that they continue to tinker with things.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If the attitude is the
one that this board has taken, then the same reasons
would exist for the plan as long as there is segregation
in housing.
MR. MELLEN: I wouldn't limit that, limit it
to that, Your Honor. I think that an important factor
are racial attitudes in the community. I think that
this board feels that the plan does serve to ameliorate
racial stereotypes, promote cross-racial understanding.
Our community still has a long way to go in that
respect. We do have some racial issues in Jefferson
County. But we believe this plan helps them. And in
the future a board may look at our community, may look
at how racial relations work in our community, and may
well decide that, even though housing is still somewhat
segregated, we can do without this plan or again we can
modify it to make it less restrictive, which in fact the
history of this plan shows that this board has done.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what would this board
have to have in order for it not to be temporally
limited in your opinion? Any plan can be changed in the
future. So why does the fact that this can be changed
in the future make it a plan that has a temporal
limitation?
MR. MELLEN: Well, Your Honor, it does not
have fixed temporal limitation of 25 years or 10 years.
As I said, that's not how school boards operate. But it
is inherently subject to review on a temporal basis
because each time we have a school board election the
plan potentially is in play, and it could be modified at
any time in that sense.
I see that my time is almost up. If there
are no further --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I just. Was there a
petition for a rehearing en banc in this case?
MR. MELLEN: There was, Your Honor, in the
Sixth Circuit, and it was denied.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Were there any votes in
favor of the en banc rehearing?
MR. MELLEN: Your Honor, as I recall the
Sixth Circuit's order, it said that no judge asked for a
rehearing en banc.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: THE COURT: Thank
you, Mr. Mellen.
Mr. Gordon, you have 2 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF TEDDY B. GORDON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GORDON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
First of all, to respond to one of the
questions that was asked, it's very important that it is
equally consistent in the 1992 plan to effectuate or to
prevent white flight that the plan itself was changed to
subjugate African American kids to the worse performing
schools. If you find that equally consistent, then you
have a question of whether or not illegitimate notions
of racial inferiority applied or racial politics applied
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Excuse me. I didn't
understand it.
MR. GORDON: Well, in the '92 plan and from
that point on, which I showed, which was held in the
Hampton plan, in the Hampton case -- in other words, in
the Hampton case I proved, or the facts proved or the
plaintiff proved, that African American kids were denied
entrance into the better schools solely because of race.
Within the vacuum of that case, there was
also proof that showed the largest percent of African
American kids were sent or denigrated or subjugated to
the worse performing schools rather than the best
performing schools. That becomes the question of racial
politics and racial animus, and that's what the '92 plan
did. And what it did to attract -- or prevent white
flight, was have less African American kids go to the
better performing schools on the entire K through 12
setting.
That can't be what this Court wants to carve
out as an exemption to the Equal Protection Clause. The
Equal Protection Clause, that's on neutral parchment
with black ink. There's no percents. There's no box to
check. We can't have this in our school system, to have
another 25 or 30 years in our school system, which will
perpetuate racial isolationism because it does nothing
to stop the achievement gap. There were race-neutral
alternative tracks.
All I can say is that, may this day be the
embryonic beginning of Dr. King's dream, as paraphrased,
that all children are now judged by the content of their
character and their education, not by the color of their
skin.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:01 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
53:25 15:11,15 16:16 24:14 arguments 3:7 52:3
African-Amer... 44:24 45:1 asked 6:4 11:25 28:14 37:15
age 13:11 appeals 5:17 51:23 52:7 bad 13:23
agree 23:21 1:18 47:19 38:7
16:8 45:13 applicable 8:11 assessment ball 20:15 23:11
agrees 39:4,8 applicant 13:6 assign 4:20 51:24
22:2 ALITO 51:1 applications assignment 5:10 barrier 3:15,16
37:3 allowed 3:21 46:9 29:18 30:5 based 26:6 29:2
12:16 allows 45:12 3:23 4:7 6:21 46:21 48:10 31:8 32:10
33:7 alternate 13:15 6:22 7:11 assignments 41:1
20:13 13:15,18 53:16 52:13,13 assigns 29:2 basically 16:3
alternatives applies 5:5 20:2 assumed 20:11 23:24 28:20,25
ameliorate apply 4:14,24 assumes 32:18 basis 15:4 16:5
53:5 22:21 attractive 31:23 2:4,11,14 3:8
14:12 16:16 area 23:14 24:15 5:4 52:4
14:23 49:10 arguing 11:12 available 19:20 34:8 44:16
50:4,6,9,15,20 carefully 39:17 character 53:20 18:17 21:9
34:9,23 50:25 51:1,11 carve 7:18 12:17 characteristics 23:16
38:16 boards 12:2 12:19 53:8 22:15 39:24 clearly 6:9 7:7,9
17:3 26:14,17 case 6:25 7:1,4,7 Charlotte 41:3 19:7
35:12 51:9 10:3 15:7 19:6 Chicago 15:9 2:6 9:9 14:21
board's 32:15 19:18,24 20:2 Chief 3:3,9 6:12 14:22,25 15:5
36:1 46:22 27:7 29:11,16 28:24 29:4,9 18:2,11,17
49:14 box 53:11 29:21,24 31:20 37:13 38:18 19:4,7,13
53:6 boy 46:25 32:14,19 33:1 48:18 49:19 20:21 21:7,17
14:7 21:3 4:4 44:24 36:23 38:6,7,8 child 5:2 13:8,10 24:22 25:1,14
30:6,8,9 Breyer 11:17 38:9,12,22 children 4:20 25:22 26:2,12
31:3 16:22 17:11 39:9 40:16 11:16,16,21 26:19 27:5,23
34:10 23:19 24:14,19 42:12 43:9,10 12:3,4,7 14:7,7 28:1,10 29:5
36:17,25 24:24 37:5,12 45:16,19,19 24:2,10 30:6 38:2
42:14 37:24 39:2 47:3 49:2,10 43:16 53:19 close 8:9
48:1,2 brief 45:11 51:17 52:19,20 child's 32:11 closed 45:6
briefly 44:20 52:23 53:23,24 chip 32:9 closest 5:6
broad 29:15 32:24 33:4,19 45:23 46:9,21 33:10 53:20
broader 17:14 34:12 37:15 choices 21:19 come 18:23
broadly 42:1 caused 6:11 chooses 12:11 35:8,18 36:7
7:23 8:7 10:21 26:13 Central 27:16 Circuit's 51:23 45:23,23
9:13 12:6 29:25 30:2,3 42:13 circumstances coming 47:1
15:14 39:5 certain 13:10,11 35:6,11 36:11 commenced
24:5,17 build 15:25 31:5 cited 25:15 5:16,16 44:25
28:1,4 byproduct 31:1 certainly 10:2 city 15:8 communicating
30:4 34:5 10:12 18:3 claim 6:12 10:9 38:6
32:2,7 22:7 37:1 classification communities
C 45:13 18:13,19 33:17 35:10
35:22 C 2:1 3:1 chains 14:5 34:21 38:25 community
37:2 called 4:4 challenging 40:7 29:11,15 31:24
38:23,24 candidly 20:19 48:20,23 classifications 32:2 35:18
20:20 22:23 championed 7:6 16:12 20:24 41:21,24 42:1
41:1,13 candor 23:13 change 24:6 24:16 26:5 43:15,16 44:7
49:15 constituency 3:20 8:6,12 14:23 19:19 21:13,16
36:17 14:3,10,12 CUSTODIAL 21:20,25 45:8
30:22,24 17:20 18:1,14 course 4:1 7:5 D 52:25
33:17 18:16 20:23 8:10 13:2 D 1:3,21 2:6 3:1 deny 29:1
23:22 24:8,12 33:12 36:20 14:22 denying 28:20
38:23 32:18 47:17 dads 3:12 Department
39:22 constitutional court 1:1,16 damages 6:13 1:22
16:10 22:13 7:16 8:23 9:10 day 8:1,2 12:5 38:19 42:8
constitutionally 15:1 17:8 53:17 deprive 25:7
Constitution's 22:8,12 24:1 38:19 descriptive 10:6
content 53:19 29:10,13 30:9 deal 8:22 desegregation
41:9 18:25 19:2 31:22 32:15 decide 13:4 41:19
49:12 42:9 43:11 26:3 21:8
controversial courts 17:6 25:8 decisions 48:25 difference 27:6
conversations 33:8 declined 42:16 33:4 34:2,5
26:1,3 44:15 47:12 40:4 41:19 49:13
53:22 6:24 degree 23:1,3,16 23:21
16:15 credits 20:16 43:4 discriminate
22:9,13 11:10 13:24 criterion 20:20 democratic discrimination
14:4 16:25 Croson 21:10 49:25 9:24 38:7,15
counts 43:2 49:14 50:16 23:18 14:16
county 1:9 3:4 curiae 1:23 2:7 5:22 15:2 49:21
D.C 1:12,22 9:20 29:20 explanation file 45:1
28:19 E 41:25 42:15,16 explicit 16:9 final 45:22
30:3 earlier 21:21 entering 13:8 explicitly 12:10 37:15 48:12
easier 17:15 53:6 37:22 finding 28:6,14
17:9 35:20,20 equal 7:19 14:17 17:17 20:24 finds 28:16,19
27:3,8 education 1:10 27:9 28:20 extended 21:10 fine 23:10 45:14
28:13 3:5 8:11 29:17 29:1 39:5 53:9 21:12 finger 46:25
32:14 30:1 32:4 39:5 53:10 extremes 25:20 finished 45:7
35:21 50:6 53:20 equally 52:8,11 first 4:14 5:19
39:14 educational ESQ 1:19,21,24 F 5:20,25 7:1,5,5
40:3,5,9 11:6,9,9,15 2:3,6,10,13 fact 6:23 8:23 13:8 25:6 33:7
42:12 14:4 16:23 establishment 10:8 17:2 34:13 45:3,7
44:23 19:2 20:16 19:6 26:23 33:21 49:2 52:6
21:15,21,22 ET 1:10 40:10 44:25 five 15:15,16
35:7 Edward 44:10 46:1 facto 10:9 fixed 51:8
effect 7:13 27:15 event 6:2 45:15 factor 12:10 flight 14:12
31:1 34:4 effects 9:23 24:22 factors 13:7,7 41:25 52:9
40:7 effectuate 52:8 exactly 7:6 18:7 28:12 53:5
47:11,22 effort 12:6 23:17 11:17 17:5 33:4 flood 47:2
either 4:21 6:2 example 6:25 44:20 45:2 44:23
35:19 election 51:11 52:15 faculty 15:11,13 following 12:13
elementary 4:22 exemption 7:18 fairly 44:3 46:1 footing 38:21
15:3,4 31:20 12:18 14:16 faith 32:3 footnote 43:12
25:20,22 53:18 exist 50:10 39:9 42:13 form 24:6
45:21 44:19 50:8 5:25 13:8,11 52:18 I
14:17 35:16 45:19 Gratz 7:9 12:21 hide 20:14 23:11 30:20,21
47:16 13:13 22:8,14 high 27:16 31:5 identified 30:25
29:7 10:20,21 11:23 47:24 history 24:15 ignores 26:1
50:17 53:5 group 47:10 home 6:11 import 18:22
going 8:8 12:19 34:20,22 39:17 14:19 30:2,17 23:11 39:8
51:4,5 17:25 18:5,6,6 22:13 34:18 35:14,17 11:14,17 12:23
21:3,9 guess 17:7 19:13 36:10,20 37:2 inapplicable
14:21,25 18:8,8 23:13 45:21 46:4,13 including 18:7
24:7 30:14 H 46:19 47:12,25 40:22 41:3
17:11 32:3 36:7 Hampton 8:17 48:3,5,17,22 47:20
Gordon 1:19 2:3 10:16 13:17 49:23 50:13 incorrectly
2:13 3:6,7,9 27:8 40:15 51:7,18,22 37:25
21:7,17 4:1,11,15 5:5 42:12 43:10,10 honorable 6:21 independent
22:5,24 5:12,14,21 6:1 52:19,19,20 6:24 10:23 16:10,14
24:13 6:14,17 7:15 hand 3:13 hope 39:3 indicates 41:6
25:1,14 8:4,10,17,21 happen 42:6,20 horizon 49:19 46:4,7
26:2,12 9:16,21 10:2 happened 45:16 49:20 indicating 17:18
27:5,23 10:12,16,20 45:16 hour 4:6 6:11 individual 12:22
29:5 11:1,5,13 happens 23:4 housing 49:5,12 23:17 32:11
39:3 12:15 13:2,12 hard 27:14 50:11,22 33:10 39:19
13:17 14:9 28:16 hundred 18:12 individualized
5:1,9 gotten 19:16 49:1 hundreds 27:16 33:22
government Hazelwood 6:25 hurt 21:2 individuals
8:7,14 27:21,24 34:20 7:4 hypo 16:1 20:11 22:15
13:5 39:8 healthy 15:15 hypothetical inferior 30:8
14:6 governmental hear 3:3 18:18,23 20:3 inferiority 52:13
10:15 held 31:11 33:16 20:5 21:14 inflexibility 6:9
41:8 42:6 grade 5:20,20 38:1 39:5,14 33:3 42:20,21 inflexible 4:25
53:14 16:13,22 17:10 43:5 45:17,25 leads 46:10
32:24 33:22 18:2,9,15 19:4 52:15 legitimate 10:14
14:3,10,12 25:14,18,25 kids 12:23 14:3 level 35:25
49:8 job 41:5,7 28:8,24 29:4,9 53:5 47:17
23:1,3 48:13,15 31:2,25 32:17 Kiefer's 47:8 limitation 51:6,8
24:6 Joshua 1:5 5:22 33:5,19 34:11 kind 16:11,21 limited 51:3
31:17 6:5,11 19:5 35:2,4,15,20 17:17 34:5 limits 46:20
35:1 44:21 45:3,7,9 36:14,22 37:4 41:11 lines 44:1
42:2 45:16 37:5,7,12,13 kindergarten litigation 5:15
JR 1:24 2:10 37:13,24 38:5 4:23 6:10 13:3 5:16 6:5 44:25
judge 13:7 25:11 40:1,11 41:8 kindergartner 16:20,23 17:15
judges 24:9 45:17,25 46:5 know 12:17 local 24:17 26:7
33:18 judgment 26:6,9 47:13 48:1,4,7 17:16 18:4,25 logic 22:7 25:20
26:10 48:13,18 49:19 19:5,10,15 long 35:18 50:4
36:11,15 jure 10:9 38:7 50:8 51:1,16 21:14 25:1,4 50:10,17
38:24 38:19 51:20,25 52:5 25:16 26:6,15 longer 7:18 10:3
39:22 jurisprudence 52:15 53:22 26:17 36:7 12:17 13:24,24
27:7 Justice 1:22 3:3 K 48:4 49:20 50:3
3:9,22 4:1,9,13 K 6:22 7:2 37:9 knowing 39:11 look 18:4 22:22
7:20 8:7,14,19 7:25 8:16 looked 39:17
9:18,21 10:4 Kennedy 8:19 large 48:2 26:22 47:8
14:20,25 15:5 37:7 38:5,11 law 31:19 33:16 lots 17:1,1
meant 25:3 minority 35:21 32:25 33:18 26:7
19:11 Mellen 1:24 mix 10:8 18:6 23:14 34:11,11
28:15 2:10 29:6,7,9 20:18 need 33:9 46:11 ones 24:16
40:11,13 30:2,17 31:10 mixing 21:4 46:12 one's 5:6
42:10 32:13,22 33:13 22:19 35:9 needs 38:22 open 9:19
34:1,17 35:2 36:4,24 neighborhood operate 51:9
36:20 37:1,11 23:7 28:19 42:22 operates 26:22
38:20 39:13 40:19 neutral 23:2,6 42:1 43:10
30:4 42:8 43:3,8,18 41:23 50:5 never 6:21,22 opinions 25:15
44:15 45:20 modify 49:17 33:11,13,14 4:14 15:2
47:24 48:2,5,8,15,22 moms 3:11 nobody's 47:17 opposed 10:17
53:25 mentioned 20:9 motivation O 29:13
45:4,6 48:24 18:10,13 19:2 objection 24:11 outcome 11:6,9
16:10,23 message 30:7,16 mouth 39:4 objective 10:15 outer 46:20
23:24 methods 37:2 move 6:7 27:6 16:19 20:18,20 outset 42:4
27:23 46:21 moved 4:2,3,12 22:3,23 23:10 outside 42:14
37:21 Michigan 31:19 6:7 16:3 44:22 36:9 37:16,17 overall 23:18,21
47:14 33:16 34:4 moves 4:16 37:20 overwhelming
22:11 N objects 43:20 overwhelmingly
22:2 mimic 23:17 narrow 9:12 obvious 16:15 35:21,22
24:1 mind 4:23 23:23 25:3 34:21 21:1
36:23 37:21 39:10,16 odd 8:3 P
46:10,14 minds 50:2 narrowly 25:9 officials 24:17 P 3:1
1:20,23 2:4,8 43:1 principle 33:6 purposes 35:12
52:4 51:12 probably 18:21 put 3:12 9:18
phrases 37:19 Powell 7:6 37:13 32:1 46:25
44:14,18 plaintiff 6:16 26:23 28:5 17:19 25:5,12
48:9,25 48:19 52:21 precedents problems 25:13 Q
39:2 8:15 9:10 25:3 predated 19:15 program 7:16 11:24 12:12
47:21 29:18 30:17,18 27:19 programs 40:23 20:14 32:6
31:10,13,15,22 predict 49:22 prohibited 8:2 33:14,15 34:19
42:24 40:4,10,20 predictable promote 50:16 46:1,11 52:12
46:15 48:3 prefer 47:15,15 proof 52:24 52:7
37:18 50:23,25 51:3 prepared 24:19 properly 30:10 quota 3:17,19
43:20 51:5,12 52:8,9 presence 49:8 34:14 5:8 7:9 12:21
15:10 play 32:7,8 31:19,20 33:3 proposition 22:17 26:25
18:9,10 45:23,23,24 presented 30:23 25:16 27:15 28:17
23:15 51:12 32:24 33:14,15 Protection 7:19 quotas 16:21
42:15 please 3:10 15:1 34:19,24 35:1 14:17 27:10 17:17 33:21
52:24 29:10 presents 29:11 53:9,10 quote 27:14
4:21 16:19 22:17,18 34:18 52:21 R
25:4 26:21 preservation 9:7 provide 30:21 R 3:1
52:10 pointed 8:19 presuppose 34:10 16:1,5 18:23
9:18 13:22 providing 31:16 19:9 20:8 21:1
politics 14:11 31:13 47:10 30:1,6,7,8 32:8
popular 27:17 primarily 17:8 purpose 15:23 36:3 37:8
41:15
45:18,21 26:21,24 41:19 remediated 13:1 49:25 school 3:14,17
48:8 43:20 45:22 30:10 51:10 4:3,5,7,17,17
52:22 reapplied 45:7 removed 12:5 right 7:1,5,6 5:6,7,8 6:6,8
49:24 require 22:7 29:1 13:6 14:8 15:3
9:11,14 reasons 33:2,23 required 8:1 ROBERTS 3:3 15:14,16,17
41:3,5 39:14 50:9 15:8 6:12,15 14:20 17:1,3,9,16
REBUTTAL requirement 17:10 19:4,10 19:8,12,15,20
15:23 recall 51:22 research 43:24 48:18 49:19 24:10,17 26:7
18:13,19 recognize 19:18 49:11 51:25 53:22 26:9,13,16,17
20:6,13 reconsideration resegregated role 25:8 26:18 27:3,16
23:15 22:8 47:6 roughly 27:4 27:17 28:1,4
25:9 record 5:24 40:2 resegregation round 4:5 30:12,14,19,21
27:11,15 43:8,9 44:18 42:24 routinely 5:17 30:22 31:11,20
28:5,16 44:22 45:5,6 residence 5:7 ruled 40:15 32:2,7,20,20
31:1,17 46:4,7 48:6,7 45:22 rules 4:23 32:20,20,21
34:7 reduce 13:19 residential ruling 13:13 33:16 34:4,12
35:1 referring 21:6 35:24 runs 18:13 34:24 35:7,20
38:25 39:10 47:9 resides 19:12,17 RYAN 1:6 35:22 36:2,22
42:2,11 refine 25:8 respect 6:15 37:2,9 40:2,5,9
44:1 reflects 35:23 17:14 40:14 S 41:2,10 42:13
47:22 regarding 39:16 44:24 50:18 S 2:1 3:1 42:19 44:14
50:14,16 regime 40:3 respective 20:7 San 41:4 45:12 47:6,17
52:13 regulations 4:24 respects 49:5 satisfaction 44:1 49:25 51:9,11
53:2,3 rehearing 51:17 respond 44:20 satisfied 3:16 53:12,13
51:21,24 52:6 28:12 schools 3:20
30:19,20 rejected 28:12 1:25 2:11 29:8 save 14:18 9:19,19 11:23
49:5,8 33:24 responding 8:21 saying 17:12 12:8,8,11
relations 50:21 response 12:14 20:15 22:1,3 13:22,22,23,23
47:9 20:6 29:19 48:7,13 31:21,22,24
23:23 remediate 38:14 review 12:22 43:13 40:12,13,23,25
show 40:2 42:2 sooner 50:1 20:11 21:14 42:23
42:23 sorry 7:15 8:20 25:11,14,18 success 29:21,22
45:14,24 showed 44:23 34:7 26:8 51:16,20 42:4
52:18,24 Souter 8:21 9:9 stigma 21:9 suffer 48:24
49:8 shows 28:2 9:14 10:4,13 stigmatization 49:1
53:1 50:25 10:19,24 11:3 21:2 31:8 suggested 28:24
side 11:12,14 11:11 12:13 stigmatize 21:2 33:3
26:4 35:3 21:7,12,18,23 stigmatizing 43:12
similar 16:8 22:6,14,25 31:9 superior 30:8
27:16 simply 21:23 37:4 26:20 45:2 31:24 43:15
sincerity 32:19 specific 28:10 31:13 41:24 49:11
43:6,11 sitting 14:7 17:14 29:21,25 42:5 Supposing 15:8
49:16 19:23 stabilized 29:20 46:25 supposition
situation 10:7 31:14 41:25 strict 23:15 30:18,19
29:12 skin 32:11 33:10 stand 38:21 strongly 38:24 35:17 45:25
50:23 53:21 standards 22:18 40:25 surprised 44:5
18:10 11:19 37:15 48:23 student 15:11 48:6,12
50:10 slaves 11:20 stark 19:25 28:21 29:1,18 surveys 42:2
24:3,4,7 37:19 stated 6:25 students 15:13 Swann 8:23,25
39:23 sole 18:24 22:17 28:9 34:10 36:18 symbolic 46:17
solely 11:15 status 9:2,3,3,6 38:15,17 39:24 system 3:19 4:2
19:1 30:6,18 10:17 12:17 49:1 12:21 13:2
son 3:14 5:11 15:19,23 17:13 submitted 53:23 systems 26:11
32:25 20:16 22:22 tinker 50:7 undergraduate valid 36:19
35:10 50:7 tip 46:5 22:12 value 16:11,14
39:11,18 think 4:11 7:20 tipping 3:19 understand 16:16 21:4
10:21 11:11 45:22 46:5 10:25 11:3 22:19,25
39:10,16 15:21,22,25 Topeka 8:11 23:20 24:13 variety 18:7
23:2,7 17:15,20 18:3 totally 7:10 understanding versa 16:17
30:1 18:11,13,24 tracks 53:16 5:21 49:15 versus 3:4 8:10
37:18 19:14,18,24 traditional 9:19 50:16 23:25 29:25
20:2,12 21:17 13:22 undue 48:24 vice 16:17
23:14,20,24 19:19,22 45:7 25:19 26:1 viewpoint 34:4
44:13 26:22 27:6 transgressed 10:5,6,11,11 violation 8:25
16:2 33:2 34:13,17 trapped 45:12 27:7,9 28:6 voluntary 40:19
17:24,24 35:4,13,18 tremendous 33:8 38:22 voted 24:5
36:14,22 37:1 24:1 United 1:1,16 voters 50:1,2
39:3,4,8,9,9,12 41:3 28:9
44:17 45:10,20 troubling 23:4 31:19 33:15,19 Wake 41:4
3:7 52:3 47:3,25 48:12 true 25:18 32:1 43:23 44:11 want 4:19 7:22
18:3 thinking 27:20 trumped 16:15 unlock 14:5 17:22 32:7,8,9
45:17 third 6:3,18 trust 26:7 unquestionably 36:4,4,4,16,17
thought 11:6 try 23:17 39:6 use 4:8 8:12 wanted 3:11,12
28:23 37:10,12 turn 33:9 23:13,23 24:1 wants 53:8
46:4 42:15,17 36:23 37:2,8 water 47:1
51:25 5:22 8:11,12 49:4,16 16:2 17:4,6
14:19 U uses 40:10,23 18:7 21:24
53:22
50:17 worst 14:13 46:8 52:2
24:25 2006 1:13
13:23 x 1:2,11 14:2 51:8
18:5 53:13
20:15 Y 25,000 22:11
48:22,23 Yeah 28:10 25-year 49:20
year 4:4 45:15 29 2:11
33:11 11:10 31:11 3
14:6,11 51:8,8 53:13 30 11:10 14:2
16:16 young 15:3 18:8 53:13
21:3 35 39:6
29:19
4 1:13 3:23
40 39:6
35:24 05-915 1:8 3:4
38:16 5
48:1 1 50 7:10 23:15
52:9 53:4 1 7:2 50-15 25:10
12:01 53:24 8
9:17 10:22 1872 37:16
52:19 1970s 49:7 9
50:21 41:19 42:3
11:1,2,4 1981 40:17
39:6 1984 40:18 50:5
46:21 1992 52:8
1996 40:19 50:5
2 42:12 43:10
