IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
LONNIE LEE BURTON, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 05-9222
BELINDA STEWART, SUPERINTENDENT, :
STAFFORD CREEK CORRECTIONS CENTER.:
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 7, 2006
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ., Stanford, Cal.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
WILLIAM B. COLLINS, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Olympia, Wash.; on behalf of Respondent.
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
WILLIAM B. COLLINS, ESQ.
On behalf of Respondent 26
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.
On behalf of Respondent 42
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioner 49
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Burton versus Stewart.
Mr. Fisher.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
In Sharp versus Pain, the Ninth Circuit
opinion that first decided the question that's before
you today, the Ninth Circuit said, and I'm quoting:
"The rule of Blakely that the statutory maximum is the
maximum sentence a judge may impose solely on the
basis of the facts reflected in the jury verdict, was
not clear until the Blakely decision itself." The Ninth
Circuit is simply wrong. In this Court's Apprendi
decision it laid down precisely that rule. At page 483
of that decision this Court described the statutory
maximum concept as, quote, "the maximum a defendant
would receive if punished according to the facts
reflected in the jury verdict alone" -- virtually the
identical language.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Fisher, you know,
assuming we read it the way you read it, I've got a
basic problem that doesn't really surface until you get
to the end of the briefs and I wonder if you would
comment on it at the beginning of the argument. That is
-- or I'll put it in the form of a question.
Is the decision which the judge makes here
to sentence consecutively rather than concurrently, a
decision that requires the finding of any fact about the
commission of the crimes themselves or the circumstances
of those crimes or about the defendant's character?
Does the judge have to make or does the
fact -- some fact finder have to make a finding on any
of those subjects -- crimes, circumstances, character of
the defendant?
MR. FISHER: Yes, he does, Justice Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What is that fact?
MR. FISHER: It's precisely the same kind of
fact that the judge had to find in Blakely itself.
Under the Washington, Revised Code of Washington, the
statute, the statute for running sentences consecutively
in the fashion that Mr. Burton's were run consecutively,
refers the judge back to the very same provision that
was at issue in Blakely itself, which is the aggravating
factors provision of Washington, which was formerly
codified at section 390 and is now codified at section
400.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I thought the only fact
that had to be found was that, given the classification
sentencing scheme Washington had, there would be, in
effect, a free crime, no incremental punishment, unless
there were consecutive sentencing. That's not a fact
that falls within any of those categories of crime,
character, or circumstances.
MR. FISHER: That would be a fact, Justice
Souter, but that is not the way the Washington law
works. It is colloquially known as the free crime
aggravator. But in the Washington Supreme Court
decision in Hughes which is cited at the end of our
reply brief the Washington Supreme Court made clear that
to invoke that aggravator a court has to find that
there was extraordinarily serious culpability or
extraordinarily serious harm that accompanies the
multiple offenses.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So it's a misnomer to say
it's a mere free crime criterion? It's free crime plus
some further fact?
MR. FISHER: That's right. And this Court's
decision -- I'm sorry. The Washington Supreme Court
decision in Hughes clearly lays that out. If you have
any doubt about the way the consecutive sentences work
in Washington, I want to give you one other citation, to
a new Washington Court of Appeals decision that
considers a consecutive sentences imposed exactly the same
way that Mr. Burton's was. That is to say, they are run
consecutively based on the clearly too lenient factor.
That case is called State versus Washington and it was
just reported at 143 P.3d 606, 143 P.3d 606. The
Washington Court of Appeals in that case, considering a
sentence just like Mr. Burton's, says that it does
trigger and violate Blakely.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So the extra fact then is a
lot like the sort of heinous, atrocious and cruel
aggravator? I mean, it's comparable to it?
MR. FISHER: Exactly, it's part of the same
list. And as this Court said in Apprendi itself, that
extra culpability, which is one of the ways this
aggravator can be met, is the quintessential type of
element that needs to be proven beyond a reasonable
doubt .
JUSTICE BREYER: When you say extra
culpability, do you mean the nature of the crime?
Suppose there are three crimes all committed at the same
time -- murder, rape, and kidnapping.
They're all very serious crimes. And if you
sentence them consecutively, you will take into account
that there were three. If you sentence them
concurrently, it doesn't matter. The Washington court
says, we're not just looking to the fact that murder or
rape or kidnapping are serious; we're looking to
sentence consecutively if do you more than that. You
have to look to see that the kidnapping was a special
kind of kidnapping.
MR. FISHER: That's right, Justice Breyer.
In section -- the current section is section 589 of
the Washington Code and it says that sentences shall run
concurrently unless the judge makes an extra finding of
exactly the same type the judge is required to find in
Blakely. And if you look at Blakely itself, remember
Blakely involved concurrent sentences. And so what Washington
is doing is saying all sentences should run concurrently
unless there's an extra fact, something about the
additional crimes that would otherwise be running
concurrently, that simply requires the judge to go above
and beyond the ordinary concurrent sentences and punish
those crimes separately.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But could the nature of the
additional crimes themselves satisfy it? In other
words, could the judge say, well, all three -- it might
be one thing if one were serious and the other two were
trivial, but all of these three are very serious. Now,
that's in effect a value judgment, not a finding of
discrete fact. Could that value judgment satisfy the
extraordinary criterion that Washington says there must
be in addition to free crime.
MR. FISHER: No, it couldn't, and the
Washington decision that I've cited to you will help you
with this, because it makes it clear that to trigger an
aggravator to run sentences concurrently, just as under
Blakely itself, there has to be something above and
beyond the elements of the crime or the crimes
themselves. It can't simply be -- I'm sorry. It can't
simply be that there were three crimes committed
and all three of them are very serious.
It has to be something about the crime, the additional
crimes, that takes it above and beyond the ordinary
commission of that crime.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But, Mr. Fisher, even if
it's true that there are other examples out there that
might qualify for that example, it's not true of this
case?
MR. FISHER: I'm not sure I follow, Justice
Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: In this particular case,
there was -- it was necessary to make an additional
finding of fact, even though there may be cases out
there in which you could get consecutive sentences
without an additional finding of fact?
MR. FISHER: You're certainly right that in
this case you needed to have an extra finding of fact.
There are some situations under the Washington Code and
I believe in the majority of other States where it is up
to the judge's discretion whether to run sentences
concurrently, and he could do it for the reason that
Justice Souter described. So what Washington does in
its respondent's brief is it cites these other State
decisions, from other States that simply have different
sentencing systems than we have in Washington.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not sure I
understand that. I mean, we have not held, for example,
that the fact of a prior conviction is something that
has to be submitted to a jury under Blakely. Why, if
you're determining that sentences run consecutively,
isn't that just the same as looking at a simultaneous
conviction and saying they're going to run
consecutively?
MR. FISHER: Under some State systems that
might be the case, Mr. Chief Justice. However, in
Washington the way that the code works is that judges
are directed that for multiple crimes the sentences
shall run consecutively.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you'd have --
MR. FISHER: Unless they make the exact kind
of extra finding, and it refers them to the precise same
statute that was at issue in Blakely itself.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you're saying
that that extra finding can't simply be that this is a
conviction for a particular serious crime that's going
to go unpunished otherwise?
MR. FISHER: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So under this system
if you had a regime where if you're convicted of murder
and you've been convicted of rape before that, you get
an enhanced sentence beyond the normal murder sentence,
that would not contravene Blakely. But if you're
convicted at the same time for rape and murder and those
two sentences run consecutively, you say that that does
violate Blakely.
MR. FISHER: If the judge needs to make an
extra finding beyond the elements of either of those two
crimes to run them consecutively, then it would violate
Blakely.
THE COURT: But we've never held that?
We've never held that consecutive -- that the treatment
of sentences as concurrent or consecutive is covered by
Blakely?
MR. FISHER: You haven't had a case in the
Apprendi-Blakely line of cases dealing with consecutive
sentences. But what you've done is laid down a rule
from the very State that we're dealing with here that
says that if the judge needs to make an extra finding
beyond the elements of the crimes of conviction and
beyond the facts encompassed in the jury's finding of
guilt for those crimes, then those findings need to be
proved to a jury beyond a reasonable doubt. That's why
in this case that line, that rule, is triggered.
The Ninth Circuit of course didn't talk
about any of this. What it said, as I mentioned, is
that it simply took Apprendi to be a purely formalistic
rule that had nothing to do with the facts according to
the jury verdict, but it just had to do with whatever
the State happened to label as the statutory maximum.
In Apprendi this Court said, not once but three times,
that the statutory maximum concept was triggered
according to the facts encompassed in the jury verdict.
And like the Washington courts, the Ninth Circuit simply
ignored that language in this Court's opinion.
Lest there be any doubt about the way that
concept mapped onto this case, this Court said in Apprendi
itself that the relevant inquiry was not one of form but
one of effect: Does the required finding take a
defendant to a higher sentence level than would
otherwise be permissible based on the facts encompassed
in the jury verdict?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Fisher, there's
another potential impediment in this case and I would
like you to comment on it. That is the petition from
the sentence, it was second in time. There was a prior
petition that challenged just the conviction, and under
the governing statute, to have a second petition, you've
got to get permission from the court of appeals and it
has to meet stringent criteria.
How do you get past that? You went out
concentrating on the petition addressed to the sentence
which is a second petition.
MR. FISHER: This is the very first petition
that Mr. Burton has filed against the 1998 judgment. He
did file earlier a petition against the original
judgment of 1994. In the joint appendix at page 34,
that is where that petition is reprinted. He says quite
clearly that he is challenging the 1994 judgment in that
petition, whereas here this is his first petition
against the 1998 judgment.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So did -- then you are
bifurcating the judgment in a criminal case, which is
not the sentence. You are saying there's an earlier
judgment, and looking at it as we would as if it were a
civil case, if you have a determination of liability,
that doesn't give you a final judgment. The judgment
will come at the end of the case when damages are
determined.
MR. FISHER: That's right, Justice Ginsburg.
And if what the State is saying is correct, which is to
say that we don't have any judgment at all until the
sentence is final, then all you get from that is that
Mr. Burton's first petition should have been dismissed
and the court could have gotten it dismissed. But we
submit what you can't do from that is retroactively
change the first petition that he explicitly told the
court was against the 1994 judgment, and that he told
the court in that same filing on JA 35 and JA 40, that
his sentence was still on direct review. You can't
retroactively change that challenge to the 1994 judgment
into one against the 1998 judgment, for two reasons.
One is that if the State is right, the
district court wouldn't have had jurisdiction under that
1998 -- challenge against the 1998 judgment either,
because as Mr. Burton forthrightly told the court, that
sentence was still on direct review. But even if you
get past that, we submit that this Court's Castro
decision simply doesn't allow a court, especially
retroactively, to recharacterize a habeas petition that
the petitioner himself said was against one judgment as
against another.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you think there can
always be two petitions, one -- of sentences on review?
MR. FISHER: No, there can't, Justice
Kennedy. And so what should have happened according to
the state's theory, is that the first petition should,
should simply have been dismissed.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Bit is that also your
theory?
MR. FISHER: I think that's -- this Court
hasn't laid down a solid decision. But I think that's a
better reading.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But are you -- are you
asking us to say that while the sentence is still under
review, there can be no habeas petition filing?
MR. FISHER: Am I asking --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why isn't that up to the
option of the petitioner? He can take his chances or he
can wait.
MR. FISHER: I think that is a fair
characterization, Justice Kennedy. But what Mr. Burton
did is he want to the district court saying I'm
challenging the 1994 judgment. And as I was saying,
under Castro before that gets recharacterized --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm asking if it is your
position whether or not he properly can do that?
MR. FISHER: I don't think so. But I'm just
recognizing that that's a jurisdictional question that
this Court would decide for itself. But assuming that
he can't do that, what the district court would have had
to say is, Mr. Burton, you're not allowed to challenge
the 1994 judgment. And let's assume for the moment he
could have challenged the 1998 judgment. The district
judge would have said, "Now Mr. Burton, you're only
challenging your conviction for the 1994 judgment. You
need to wait until you're ready to challenge your
sentence, and then you can challenge the 1998 judgment."
Presumably -- and this is I think a fair inference
especially from the petition itself as it is reprinted,
since he told the district court that he was challenging
his sentence, if he was told he couldn't bring it at
that time he would have said okay, I will withdraw it
and wait until I can challenge my sentence.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But if the first proceeding
was not in fact jurisdictionally barred, then you would
lose under the second and successive objection in this
case, right?
MR. FISHER: I don't know that we would,
Justice Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why not?
MR. FISHER: Because it is a common rule
that -- this Court hasn't had a case exactly like this,
but the lower courts do all the time; and the Fourth
Circuit case in Taylor which I've cited in the reply
brief is one of them. Where, it is a common practice
for a petitioner to bring one petition against a
judgment and then be partially successful, and then
bring a new petition against something in the new
judgment. And that's essentially what happened here.
And it may --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Aren't those cases in which
the first judgment is complete, he simply does not
attack everything that was a predicate for the first
judgment; and then if there is, in fact, a new trial,
and a new judgment, of course, the habeas possibility
arises again, whereas in this case, the first judgment
was not complete.
MR. FISHER: No, you put your finger on it
exactly. And so, but we still think that, that, either
the court had jurisdiction or it didn't. And if it had
jurisdiction, then it must be -- fall in somehow into
the category that you're talking about.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But that's not necessarily
true. Isn't it also possible if, at the time of the
first judgment the judge could have said, well you really
haven't exhausted your remedies because it is not final
until the whole thing is over. But nevertheless,
because exhaustion is not a jurisdictional matter, I'm
going to go ahead and decide it.
MR. FISHER: Could a district judge have
done that?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
MR. FISHER: I think what would have needed
to have happened here, since Mr. Burton at pages 35 and
40 of the joint appendix, told the district judge, I'm
still challenging my sentence on direct appeal, under
AEDPA and customary comity principles, the judge would
have needed to say, you need either to renounce that
appeal from the State court or renounce this one. You
couldn't do both at the same time.
Mr. Burton, if he had wanted to, I think it
is fair to say, could have gone into district court and
said, I now have a new judgment and I'm going to
challenge my conviction and sentence because I have no
intention of challenging my sentence through State court
proceedings. And perhaps he could have done that. But
that would be a very different situation than what we
have here.
If I can turn back to the, not a new rule
question, another angle at this is not simply to look at
the text of this Court's opinion in Apprendi which we
submit told a State court in this situation all it would
have needed to know, but also perhaps it is helpful to
look behind that and look at the statutes that were in
play in New Jersey and in Washington. And even if you
did that it becomes, we submit, very clear that a
district judge, any reasonable trial judge, that is,
would have known that Apprendi applied here.
What you had in New Jersey was essentially
two statutes. One that said an ordinary commission of a
crime is punishable up to 10 years. And a second
statute that said if you commit that crime with some
kind of extra -- extra bad circumstance, there a hate
crime, then you get -- you can get a higher sentence.
Exactly the same thing was true in
Washington. We had one statute that said this is what
the, this is what the punishment is for the ordinary
commission of this crime. And we had an extra statute
that said, but if you commit that crime with extra bad
circumstances -- and here the only difference was, there
was a list of circumstances, not just a single one --
but if you commit the crime with extra circumstances,
then you can get extra punishment.
And the analogy that the respondents want to
draw between the Washington sentencing system and the
Federal guidelines just simply doesn't hold up.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think Blakely
was not a new rule but Booker was?
MR. FISHER: I think that's fair to say,
Mr. Chief Justice. Because in Blakely all you needed to
do was apply Apprendi which said that if you have two
different statutory thresholds, the pertinent threshold
for Sixth Amendment and Fourteenth Amendment purposes is
the one that cabins the judge's discretion based on the
facts in the jury verdict. To decide Booker this Court
had to take the term statutory maximum and apply that to
a different type of threshold, which was as this Court
put it a court rule or a quasi legislative enactment.
So under -- under the system that this Court
reviewed in Booker, you had only a single true statutory
maximum. And then you had to decide whether the
Apprendi principle ought to be in play for the Federal
sentencing guidelines. And if there is any confusion on
that, a trial judge could have looked at Apprendi itself
where this Court and Justice Thomas's concurrence made
clear that there was unique status of the Federal
sentencing guidelines that made it a more difficult
question.
However, here where you didn't have anything
like that, we had just a simple situation where there
were two statutes, one maximum for the ordinary crime,
and then an additional maximum for the crime being
committed with aggravating circumstances. And so it was
a very clear map line. And that's what this Court said
in Blakely, of course. It said, it didn't break any new
ground in the decision in Blakely. It simply said that,
took the state's argument and rejected it by saying our
precedents on this point are clear. And it just simply
quoted the Apprendi language, that the statutory maximum
for Sixth and Fourteenth Amendment purposes is the
maximum that a defendant may receive based on the facts
and the jury verdict alone.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There were decisions
going the other way.
MR. FISHER: There were lower court
decisions?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. FISHER: Yes, there were. And I think,
if we want to talk about these, it is important first to
be clear about what we are talking about. There were,
there was a Supreme Court of Kansas that had looked to
the relevant language in Apprendi and decided that its
sentencing guidelines system could not stand. And then
you had, on the other side the Supreme Court of
Washington, and the Supreme Court of Oregon, and a
couple of other State intermediate courts, I think some
in unpublished decisions, that had gone the other way.
But I think it is very telling, Justice
Ginsburg, if you want to look at those State supreme --
I'm sorry, those State supreme court and lower court
decisions, because none of them -- not a single one --
quotes Apprendi or even acknowledges the passages in
Apprendi that said the test is not one of form but of
effect. And there's several passages in Apprendi that
said that the statutory maximum was the maximum allowed
based on the facts in the jury verdict. So once you
take those into account, we submit, as the Kansas
Supreme Court realized, there is only one conclusion
that you can reach. The only way those lower courts
were able to come to a contrary decision was simply to
pluck out -- pluck out other sentences of Apprendi and
not acknowledge the rest of the opinion. And of course,
the rest of the opinion where this Court has these
passages, pages 483, 482, are the absolute guts, the
building blocks of the opinion itself. It is where the
Court canvasses the historical rule that was
incorporated into our constitutional system. And so it
is not as though that is some sort of dicta that or
loose language that this Court had in its opinion. It
was the very guts of the holding of Apprendi.
And we submit that, in a Teague analysis
where you are indeed supposed to look to whether a
reasonable jurist would have found something, not just
the fact that they exist, but whether a reasonable
jurist would have reached a given conclusion, once you
take the whole of Apprendi into account, there was only
one conclusion that a reasonable jurist could have come
to.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose that doesn't
make the dissenters in Blakely feel very good.
MR. FISHER: Well, Justice Kennedy, I think,
as I understand the dissents in, in Blakely, the
dissents in Blakely primarily were saying that Apprendi
itself was a bad idea. And that Apprendi really wasn't
dictated by the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments. I see
almost nothing, in fact really nothing in the dissents
of Blakely itself that says taking Apprendi as the law,
we can distinguish it from the facts in this case.
There was nothing of that in the dissents.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Of course you have to show
that the result was dictated by the prior precedent.
That's a strong phrase. We said it in Stringer --
Stringer versus Black. But if it has a new application,
that's -- that's new. Even though the principle is the
same.
MR. FISHER: I think the Stringer test is
helpful because there, of course, this Court said that
one of its prior decisions was not a new rule, because
even though there was a different State sentencing
system that slightly different before the Court in the
subsequent case, the principle from the prior case
dictated only one result. And I think once you go back
to the dissents in Blakely and compare them let's say,
with the dissents in Booker, on the merits that is, in
Booker, I think again it is telling, because the
dissenters in Blakely had nothing to say in terms of a
possible way to distinguish one case from the other;
whereas in Booker, the dissents did point out we don't
have to extend it this far. We can limit to it to true
statutes and not go this far. So there is a difference.
Really what this case, I think one way to
phrase it in terms of what it comes down to, is whether
when this Court lays a decision down like Apprendi, that
has a clear rule and lots of historical, robust
reasoning behind it, saying why we are adopting a
certain rule, whether it is up to the lower courts, in
this case the State courts, to second-guess this Court
and say I don't know if the Court really means what it
says, as Justice Breyer later put it in the Blakely
dissent.
We think that, we submit what this Court
should say is that when we say something is the law,
that lower courts ought to assume that's the law, at
least until we tell them somehow that the law is
different.
If there are no more questions on the new
rule, I will quickly address the watershed argument.
Because if for some reason this Court adopted the
state's view that really all Apprendi was was a highly
formalistic rule about what is a statutory maximum, and
that -- and that just simply labeling, courts could have
evaded it, we think that Blakely itself then has to be
considered a watershed exception -- a watershed rule.
And the reason why is because, is because of an error
that runs throughout the state's brief.
And the state's position is basically that
this can't be watershed because Apprendi and Blakely
deal with circumstances where a defendant has already
been convicted of a crime and all we're considering is
what sentence ought to be imposed. But, of course, that
-- that contravenes the very holding of Apprendi and
Blakely which is to remedy the fact that the defendant
is being sentenced for a greater crime than the jury
actually found him guilty of. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This argument, this
argument assumes that we rule against you on whether or
not it is a new rule.
MR. FISHER: I think that's right, Mr. Chief
Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Don't you have --
don't you have to address AEDPA before we get to that
question?
MR. FISHER: In the watershed realm?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In other words, it
doesn't matter it it's a watershed, I guess it is a
point of argument, but it is not clear that it matters
whether it is a watershed rule if you read AEDPA
2254(d)(1) by its terms.
MR. FISHER: If this Court concluded in the
Whorton case that watershed did not survive AEDPA, then
of course you're right, watershed doesn't -- can't get
us home here. But as this case comes to the Court, as I
understand it, this Court is considering this case in a
posture that it really dealt with in Horn versus Banks
where it said that even post AEDPA, what a court is
supposed to do is conduct what this Court termed a
threshold Teague inquiry as to whether Teague is
satisfied. And of course in Horn, this Court mentioned
the watershed exception itself.
So we think that what this Court should
really do is address that threshold question to the
extent it needs to holistically.
If there are no more questions, I'll reserve
the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Fisher.
Mr. Collins.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM B. COLLINS
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MR. COLLINS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I would like to begin where Justice Ginsburg
began, with the issue of successive petitions. We
believe that the petition before this Court is a
successive petition barred under AEDPA. Now my brother,
Mr. Fisher says that it's not a successive petition
because the first petition challenged the 1994 judgment.
But that is simply not correct as a matter of the facts
of this case.
A new judgment was entered in March of 1998.
That judgment was entered as a result of Mr. Burton's
conviction being affirmed and his sentence being
reversed. So when he was in custody, when he filed his
first petition, he was in custody pursuant to that
amended judgment.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So that is the only
judgment that could be attacked on habeas?
MR. COLLINS: Exactly, Your Honor. So he
has an amended judgment filed in March of 1998. He
files his first petition challenging his conviction
under that petition. Later, in 2002, he files a second
petition challenging his sentence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It doesn't matter --
I'm looking at joint appendix page 34, date of judgment
of conviction, he puts in December 16, 1994.
MR. COLLINS: He does put that in, Your
Honor, but I don't think that's determinative. If you
take a look at page 35, on question 8, they say, did you
appeal from the judgment of conviction? Answer, yes.
If you did appeal, answer the following. And it lays
out the facts that he appealed, that his conviction was
affirmed, that his sentence was reversed, and then a new
judgment is entered in March of 1998.
He is not in custody pursuant to the 1994
judgment. He is in custody --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where does it say a
new judgment was issued in March of '98?
MR. COLLINS: Your Honor, that's in the
joint appendix at page 3, which shows that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, I thought you
meant it was in his petition.
MR. COLLINS: No, no, it wasn't in his
petition, Your Honor, but it doesn't seem -- the fact
that he was looking back at his conviction, original
conviction being 1994, and that's what he wrote down,
doesn't mean that that was the conviction and that was
the judgment under which he was in custody, because it
simply wasn't. The original 1994 judgment no longer
existed because a new judgment had been entered. So
because -- and I don't think -- I think what we disagree
about in this is which judgment, if the first petition
went to the first -- to the 1994 judgment, and the
second petition went to the 1998 judgment, then we would
agree with Mr. Fisher that it is not successive.
On the other hand, I believe I heard him say
that if you agree with us, that the only judgment in
existence at the time he filed his petition was the 1998
judgment. Then he's filed a successive petition with
regard to that judgment, one in December of 1998 dealing
with the conviction; a second in 2002, dealing with the
sentence.
So since it's a successive petition and
Mr. Burton did not go through the gatekeeping function
that AEDPA requires, there is no -- the district court
had no jurisdiction and subsequently, we believe that
this Court does not have jurisdiction.
JUSTICE BREYER: The fact is, we're looking
at page 34, 34 of the joint appendix, and that is the
first petition that was filed; is that right?
MR. COLLINS: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: So you look at it and it
says, filed December 28, and maybe this is what you
said. Then it says date of judgment of conviction,
December 16, 1994. So looking at that, you'd think that
is what he was attacking. Where does it say he's
attacking anything else?
MR. COLLINS: Well, Your Honor, it doesn't
say he's attacking anything else, but the problem with
that is that when he filed this petition, he was not
being confined --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but I imagine there
are tens of thousands off petitions filed in the Federal
system. And I would think that judges when they're
trying to look at those petitions, or the magistrate
looks at them and says what judgment are you attacking,
he has to figure that out often for statute of
limitations purposes, or some other purpose. He'd look
over there, go down and read that line two, and he'd
think yeah, that's the judgment that's being attacked,
unless of course there's some indication that it's
something else.
I've never heard of this before. Is there
any precedent on that where even though the petition
refers to date A, and there's nothing in to suggest
anything other than date A, because it turns out that
there's a different judgment that in fact, he's being
held, which is date B, that the court says oh, you're
attacking date B.
Is there any precedent that says that's how
it's read?
MR. COLLINS: I'm not aware of any
precedent.
JUSTICE BREYER: No. So this might be the
first time. I don't see a reason why you wouldn't read
the petition that's filed in an ordinary way and say the
judgment that's being attacked is the judgment that it
refers to.
MR. COLLINS: Well, Your Honor, I think you
have to say the judgment that's being attacked is the
judgment by which he's being confined. I mean, he --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know what
implication this is going to have for a lot of these
petitions. I don't know one way or the other, but it
might be there are thousands right now in the Federal
court which have date A, and somebody is going to go
back and say no, it is really date B or something. I'm
a little nervous about it. If you're not nervous,
you're the ones in charge.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, Mr. Collins, isn't it
your position that, number one, the only judgment that he
can attack on habeas is the judgment that is extant at the
time of the habeas proceeding, and that is the '92
judgment that follows the resentencing? But he may in
attacking that judgment attack the premise of conviction
which occurred earlier?
MR. COLLINS: Exactly, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And if he chooses to attack
only the earlier conviction which is the premise of the
later judgment, he has simply in effect waived any other
issue. And when he comes in later and tries to raise
the issue that he could have attacked under the '92
judgment, he's in effect trying to split up his habeas,
it's second and successive, and that's why he can't do
it.
MR. COLLINS: That's exactly right, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And further, I
thought you told me that the petition goes on to
indicate that the conviction while affirmed, that the
sentence was reversed, looking at 9(b) on joint appendix
35.
MR. COLLINS: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which in other
words, he details in the petition the subsequent history
that would have resulted in a new judgment.
MR. COLLINS: That's right, Your Honor.
Next I would like to go briefly to the
question that Justice Souter asked about --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I just be sure I
understand one thing about that? So you're saying at
the time he filed the petition on December 28, 1998, he
had already had, the second judgment had already been
entered by the Washington Supreme Court?
MR. COLLINS: It had been entered by the
trial court, Your Honor, so he --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Pursuant to the reversal
of the --
MR. COLLINS: Exactly, Your Honor. That
sentence is on page -- if you look at page 3 of the
joint appendix, that is the second amended judgment
filed in the superior court in Washington on March 16,
1998, and he was confined under the authority of this
judgment.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Of the second judgment?
MR. COLLINS: Of the second judgment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why does it make any less
sense to allow separate habeas challenges to, first, the
conviction, and then the sentence, than it does to allow
separate appeals to this Court from each of those? And
once again under the statute, we entertain appeals only
from final judgment, but you can bring here on
certiorari the judgment of conviction, even though
proceedings for the sentence are still in progress.
MR. COLLINS: Well, Your Honor, I think
we're talking about the habeas corpus statute and there
the Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: A fortiori, we have a lot
more control over habeas corpus, which is an equitable
remedy, than we do over, what is it, 1257, our
jurisdictional statute under certiorari.
Why does it make any more sense for habeas
purposes to insist that he await the final sentence
before he gets review of the premise for that sentence,
namely the conviction?
MR. COLLINS: Your Honor, I'm sorry.
I think that a couple things are being
confused here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.
MR. COLLINS: The first thing is when -- is
this a successive -- is this a successive petition, and
we would say it is, because he filed the first one and
then the second one.
Now the question of whether he can get
relief under the first -- under his first habeas
petition does not depend on the entry of a final
judgment. In fact, under the facts of this case, the
judgment was entered in March of 1998. In December of
1998, he filed his first petition. And in fact, the
first petition was denied in April of 2000 on the
merits, because it had been exhausted, he didn't have to
wait for that, because those claims were exhausted and
because they were ripe, because they -- the factual
predicates had occurred in the trial court, then that
was all that was required for him to bring those claims.
He didn't have to wait for a final judgment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you're saying he can't
later bring any claim about the sentence?
MR. COLLINS: That's because Congress in
AEDPA has declared that you have to bring all of your
claims in your -- at one time, and if you don't, then
your petition should be dismissed as successive, unless
you go through the gatekeeping solution.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So that if the statute
governing our review had an exhaustion requirement and a
second and successive requirement comparable to the
AEDPA requirement, the case that Justice Scalia put
would be exactly like this case?
MR. COLLINS: I believe so, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. COLLINS: So I just briefly want to go,
Justice Souter, to where you started about the
consecutive sentence issue.
We believe that consecutive sentence is
quite different than, from what exists in Blakely and
that, in fact, there aren't really additional findings
of fact. I think you referred to about the crime, about
the circumstances, about the character. In fact, in
this case, the finding of fact entered by the trial
court in order to justify the exceptional sentence --
this is on page 27 of the joint appendix, finding of
fact 18 -- if the court were to sentence the defendant
to a standard range sentence on each count run
concurrently, he would receive the same punishment as if
he had committed only the rape in the first degree.
This would effectively result in the free crimes
of robbery in the first degree and burglary in the first
degree because he would receive no additional penalty
for those crimes. Now --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's -- I keep doing
this. I'm sorry. Is that sufficient, as you understand
it, under the Washington case that your brother cited to
me?
MR. COLLINS: I believe it is, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the law was
that the sentence shall be concurrent unless, and the
unless is that the judge makes an additional finding,
the very same kind of finding that he would make in
determining aggravating factor.
MR. COLLINS: Your Honor, the sentence could
have been run consecutively because of an aggravating
factor. In fact, in this case the trial court judge, in
fact, had three independent and separate reasons for
running the sentence consecutively. Two of those would
be, I think we would say aggravating factors that the
Blakely reasoning would apply to. But the court of
appeals when it considered this case only looked at the
free crimes element to make that decision.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Maybe you can give me just
a little more help on this. The finding number 18 that
you referred to says in substance, if by just sentencing
him on the basis of the jury verdict he won't get --
he'll get a free pass. But it doesn't say the judge
can -- could therefore increase the sentence. It seems
to me there had to be additional findings that justify a
result that he thought would have been a miscarriage of
justice.
MR. COLLINS: No, Your Honor. I don't think
that's right.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You think that just having
pointed out that he would get a pass would have been
sufficient to justify consecutive sentences?
MR. COLLINS: I think it would, and the
State supreme court affirmed this decision.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yeah, but he did make
additional findings. It goes on. In fact, 19 and 20
are additional findings.
MR. COLLINS: Your Honor, I think -- I mean,
I agree with you that he did make additional findings.
But --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It nowhere says they're
unnecessary either.
MR. COLLINS: That's true, Your Honor. But
if you take a look at the court of appeals opinion which
is at page 52 and 53 of the joint appendix, when the
court of appeals looks at the sentence, what the court
of appeals says is, "nonetheless, the sentencing court
concluded that the multiple offender policy alone
justified the exceptional sentence. The fact that the
defendant offender score for rape in the first degree is
16, thus invoking the multiple offense policy of the
Sentencing Reform Act standing alone, is a substantial
and compelling reason and justification for imposing the
exceptional sentence here."
JUSTICE SOUTER: That is to say that that
would have been sufficient.
MR. COLLINS: Exactly.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But in fact that is not
what the trial court premised its decision on, because,
as Justice Stevens points out, it went on in findings
19, 20, and 21 about deliberate cruelty, sophistication
and planning, and so on. Having been through those
findings, the court says, from the foregoing facts the
court now makes the following conclusions of law.
It seems to me as though the trial court was
basing its decision on those foregoing facts as well as
upon finding 18, which was the free crime finding.
MR. COLLINS: Well, I think that the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I guess what I'm saying is
the fact that he might have -- I'm assuming for the sake
of argument that the trial court might on the basis
simply of the free crime conclusion have sentenced
consecutively, is simply not the case that we've got,
because he sentenced consecutively on that basis and on
cruelty, sophistication, and so on.
MR. COLLINS: Well, Your Honor, I believe
that the court of appeals felt that that consecutive
sentence on the free crimes was -- standing alone would
have been sufficient.
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't want to take you
up. Let me just have one on the merits, one. I mean,
the reason I want you to get to the merits, and I put in
my dissent. I was trying as hard as I could to show why
I thought this case was wrong. I start the dissent by
saying that -- what it says, and then I quote the two
sentences that any fact, et cetera, any fact that
increases beyond the prescribed statutory maximum must
be submitted to a jury and prescribed statutory maximum,
again quote, means "solely on the basis of the facts
reflected in the jury verdict." Okay.
Then at the end of the opinion I say:
"Until now I would have thought the Court might have
limited Apprendi so its underlying principle wouldn't
cause so much harm." Now, the next sentence of course I
explain how they might have limited Apprendi, but
somehow that disappeared from the opinion because I
guess I couldn't think of it.
So you're going to tell me now -- I mean, I
didn't say how they might have limited Apprendi and I
couldn't think of how they might have limited Apprendi,
and they read Apprendi to mean what it said. Now, you
tell me the phrase I might have put in but couldn't
think of that would have limited Apprendi?
MR. COLLINS: Well, Your Honor, I think that
you could have said that the definition of "statutory
maximum" is the traditional statutory maximum that was
at issue in Apprendi. And in fact in the Apprendi
decision the Court specifically, I think in response to
Justice O'Connor's dissent, explained that Walton versus
Arizona was still good law. And as you know, in Walton
the jury would find somebody guilty of aggravated first
degree murder, but they could not receive the death
penalty unless the judge made additional findings in a
hearing.
And it seemed to say that the statutory
maximum was death and that in fact the judge's findings
would not take you above that statutory maximum. I
think that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wasn't that overturned in
Ring?
MR. COLLINS: It was overturned in Ring,
Your Honor. But when you had lower court appellate
judges looking at your decision in Apprendi and seeing
the fact that Walton and Apprendi were consistent, it
was logical for them to conclude, as virtually every
single court did except for Kansas, that the definition
of "statutory maximum" was the traditional statutory
maximum that was in Apprendi.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Was it logical for them to
conclude it or were they -- were they expressing the
hope that the Court would draw a distinction which it
had not drawn in the formulation that it gave in
Apprendi? It's one thing to say that if you draw no
further distinctions, Apprendi requires a certain
result. It's another thing to say but maybe they will
draw a distinction and we're going to predict that they
will, and hence not apply Apprendi.
Weren't the other appellate courts to which
you refer engaged in the latter exercise, which I call
the exercise of hope?
MR. COLLINS: I'm not sure that I would
agree with that, Justice Souter, only because as I think
Justice O'Connor explained in her dissent, there are two
ways to read Apprendi, and one of those ways would
result in upholding guideline systems which are now
invalid because of Blakely and Booker, but really quite
different from Apprendi because those systems involve
what you would call guided discretion. That is, in
Apprendi if you wanted the aggravating factor if the
judge found it by a preponderance then the sentence was
enhanced.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, but doesn't that
require drawing a distinction that Apprendi did not
speak to? And isn't it still the case that, I think
Mr. Fisher points out that three times we repeated in
Apprendi the formula about fact, beyond fact found by a
jury on the basis of which, et cetera, the range
increases.
Isn't the distinction which -- and I trust
your recollection here -- that Justice O'Connor had in
mind and that they had in mind a distinction which
simply was not addressed in Apprendi and would have been
something new as opposed to merely an application of
what was implicit in Apprendi?
MR. COLLINS: I believe it definitely would
have been something new, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Collins.
Mr. Roberts?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
If I could begin by addressing the issues
that you were just talking about, there was a
distinction that the Court could have drawn between
Apprendi and Blakely and that reasonable jurists could
have drawn and did draw. One was the formal distinction
that you were discussing before with the State, which
was supported by Justice O'Connor's proposing that as an
interpretation in her dissent and the majority not
responding to that, that that distinction was contrary
to the rule but implausible, but in fact accepting
the -- accepting that it was a plausible distinction and
saying that it still wouldn't have made a difference,
that the Apprendi rule still was important.
The second -- and in addition to that, that
distinction that Justice O'Connor drew there was
consistent with the Apprendi Court's distinction of
Walton. And you have to look at what reasonable jurists
could have interpreted looking at that decision at the
time with those distinctions and what the Court said in
Apprendi.
But in addition to that, there was more than
a formal distinction that could have been drawn between
the system in Apprendi and the Washington guidelines
system. That's the distinction that we proposed in our
amicus brief in Blakely and it rested on the fact that
sentencing guideline systems like Washington try to
channel but not to eliminate the discretion that
sentencing judges have to sentence within the otherwise
applicable limits. And in the Washington system the
sentencing judge retained a significant degree of
discretion that reasonable jurists could have analogized
to traditional sentencing systems that aren't
constrained by Apprendi.
The facts, the facts on which the judge
could rely to go above the guidelines, were not
specified as in Apprendi and as in Ring by the
legislature, but it was a wide open set that enabled the
judge himself or herself to determine what facts the
judge thought could justify a higher sentence; and in
addition, the facts alone didn't trigger the higher
sentence. The judge had to look at those facts and make
the additional determination that those facts rose to
the level of substantial and compelling reasons that
justified the higher sentence.
In that respect, the judge had a degree of
sentencing discretion to decide what facts justified it
and whether it was in fact justified.
Now, of course, this Court rejected those
distinctions in Blakely. But the question is whether a
reasonable jurist could have accepted those distinctions
and drawn a difference, and we submit that they could
have.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Roberts, do you
have a position on whether we have a successive petition
problem here?
MR. ROBERTS: We don't have a position on
that precise, on that particular issue here, because it
can't arise for Federal prisoners. But let me explain
why it can't arise for Federal prisoners because perhaps
that will give the Court some guidance in resolving the
issue. In the Federal system, it's well established
that the conviction and the sentence are part of a
unitary judgment and that that unitary judgment doesn't
become final until the conviction and the sentence have
both been fully adjudicated.
That understanding is reflected in the
language of 28 U.S.C. 2255, which is the statute that
authorizes collateral attacks by Federal prisoners.
That statute authorizes attacks -- what it authorizes is
motions to vacate, set aside, or correct a sentence. So
it's clear from that that it's not authorizing
collateral attacks on a conviction independent of the
attendant sentence. And I think that could shed some
guidance here, because 2255 was intended to be a
parallel and substitute remedy to traditional habeas for
Federal prisoners.
I would also make a point on the other sort
of preliminary issues that were being discussed on the
consecutive sentence issue, that it's not only the fact
that the judge said that the multiple offense policy
standing alone could justify the consecutive sentence
here and that the court of appeals relied on that in
upholding that.
But the court of appeals went further,
because petitioner had made a separate challenge to --
and this is on page 52 and 53 of the joint appendix.
Petitioner made a separate challenge to the other two
aggravating factors. Petitioner argued that the
district court wasn't allowed to rely on -- excuse me,
the trial court couldn't rely on those two other
aggravating factors because he had not relied on them in
the original sentencing and this was a resentencing.
The court of appeals rejected that challenge
and it rejected that challenge because it said the
sentencing court concluded that the multiple offense
policy alone justified the exceptional sentence, and
then on page 53 it said: "The sentencing court did not
rely on the additional aggravating factors for imposing
an exceptional sentence." So I think these --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is that true in fact?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, that is how --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm mean, I'm sure you're
reading correctly, but is that in fact true? Because,
having talked, as I just read out a moment ago, having
spoken about free crimes, aggravating factors, it says,
on the basis of the foregoing facts I now draw the
following conclusions of law.
MR. ROBERTS: The trial court said each of
the three standing alone was sufficient. But what the
court of appeals said is these other two have been
challenged, but these other two are -- we're not going
to deal with this challenge to these other two
factors because they're out of the case. So I think
that this Court has to take the case as coming from --
coming from the Washington courts as if what the courts
essentially said is those other two are not in the case
any more.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So we can treat it in
effect -- and this may be the way to do it -- we can
treat it as the ultimate sentencer was the Washington
appellate court and that's what they said?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, what the Washington
appellate court essentially, they could have said
petitioner is right, those other two aggravating factors
couldn't be relied on, and so we're relying on this the
standing alone. What they chose to do is, we're going
to interpret what the trial court did as relying only on
the one. And that was the basis for responding to that
claim of error, and I do think that the Court has to
take this case as coming on that basis.
If I could turn to the issue of Blakely
retroactivity for a few minutes. In addition to the
points that I made before about why Blakely was a new
rule, I would also submit that Blakely is not a
watershed rule because it's not a bedrock rule that's
essential to a fair trial, and rules are only bedrock if
they approach the fundamental and sweeping importance of
Gideon, and Blakely doesn't have that kind of importance
for three reasons. First, the right to counsel
pervasively affects every aspect of the trial, but
Blakely affects only the procedure for determining the
punishment of defendants who have already been found
guilt beyond a reasonable doubt of all the elements of a
crime.
Second, a felony trial in which the
defendant is denied counsel is inherently unfair, but
it's not inherently unfair to use the preponderance
standard to find facts that determine the extent of
punishment, and in fact the Constitution permits the use
of a preponderance standard to find many facts that have
as much or more impact on punishment as facts covered by
Blakely. Those include facts that trigger mandatory
minimums, facts on which a judge relies to sentence
within a broad statutory range, and even facts on which
a judge relies to sentence above the standard range in
advisory guideline systems.
Third, counsel is so essential to a fair
trial that deprivation of the right can never be
discounted as harmless error. But this Court held in
Recuenco that Blakely errors can be harmless, and in
reaching that holding the Court expressly concluded that
Blakely errors do not necessarily render a criminal
trial fundamentally unfair or an unreliable vehicle for
determining guilt or innocence.
That conclusion seems to strongly suggest
that Blakely is not a bedrock rule essential to a fair
trial.
If the Court has no further questions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Fisher, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Let me say one word on
jurisdiction and then turn to two comments on the
merits. On jurisdiction, I think Mr. Roberts is right
that this rarely happens in the Federal system. It
rarely happens in the State system. We can't find any
other case where a petitioner has gone in naming, as the
State would say, in effect the wrong judgment and
saying: "I'm challenging this judgment."
But what happened here was just that.
Mr. Burton went in and said he was challenging the 1994
judgment. And under this Court's Castro decision, when
a pro se petitioner comes in and says I'm doing one
thing, in that case making a motion for a new trial, it
can't be converted into something else which is a first
habeas petition without advising the petitioner. And
here, not only was he not advised by the trial court but
the State in its own answer, which we attached to our
reply brief, agreed that he could challenge the 1994
conviction, and said that conviction is final, and he
can challenge that judgment, the 1994 judgment.
So it's way too late in the day for the
State to stand up to you now and say this pro se
petitioner should bear the burden of bringing an
improper petition.
On the merits, I don't want to elaborate
beyond simply just telling this Court that if you look
at the Hughes decision and you look at the Washington
decision from the Washington state courts, it is clear
that an extra finding was necessary here, even if the
only aggravator in play is the free crimes are clearly
too lenient factor. Hughes makes it crystal clear that
a judge needs to find, and I'm quoting, "extraordinarily
serious harm or culpability arising from the multiple
offenses." And to the extent that the State stands
before you now and quotes from parts of Mr. Burton's
case where the trial judge did not explicitly make that
finding, that only reinforces the strength of his habeas
petition now, that under Washington state law, the judge
needed to make that kind of an extra finding and the
judge didn't do so.
Let me finally turn to a discussion about
whether this Court's treatment of Walton and Apprendi
could have given a State judge a reasonable basis to
distinguish the system at issue in Blakely. We don't
think it could because this Court didn't simply say in
Apprendi that Walton stands. It explicitly said the
reason why the Arizona capital system as we understand
it is okay is because it's nothing more than a system
that is permissible under Williams against New York.
It's one where on the basis of the jury's
finding of guilt that the death penalty is permissible
without anything else. And so the only disagreement
between the majority and Justice O'Connor's dissent was
as to the way Arizona's system worked, but any judge that
would have looked at Apprendi would have seen, the
majority is telling us that a system is okay so long as
the jury verdict itself allows the ultimate sentence.
That is exactly the kind of system that was
not in place in Washington, so a judge should have full
well realized.
And of course as Justice Ginsburg pointed
out, once it became clear to this Court the way that
Arizona's capital sentencing system functioned, this
Court had little difficulty simply applying the Apprendi rule
and agreeing that that system had to be invalid too.
And just like the Blakely decision itself, not even the
dissenters suggested that Apprendi dictated otherwise.
If this Court has no further questions, I'll
submit the case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Fisher. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:01 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
52:21 36:10,12,16 35:16 37:21 asking 14:15,17 basing 38:17
5:14 6:12,16 22:24 42:14 assume 15:8 48:6 51:16,23
ago 47:5 apply 19:7,12 assumes 25:2 bedrock 48:11
22:7 37:15 41:18 applying 52:12 15:5 38:21 began 26:14
agreeing 52:13 6:14 11:12,16 attached 50:15 behalf 1:16,19
allow 13:24 33:3 19:7,18,20 31:7,10,13 26:10 42:23
44:16 21:11 46:15 22:1,7,14,15 31:17 26:15 28:16
allows 52:5 22:18 23:19 attacking 29:11 29:1 35:4,9
8:13,23 32:21 39:19,21,25 30:9 31:10 42:16
20:3 35:11 Amendment 40:1,2,4,8,8,24 attacks 45:19,20 BELINDA 1:6
36:8 19:9,9 20:11 40:25 41:4,9 45:23 better 14:13
Amendments 41:10,13,20,23 attendant 45:24 beyond 6:17
44:18 22:16 41:25 42:4,7 authority 32:23 7:18 8:9,14
amicus 1:22 42:13,15 43:5 authorizes 10:12,18 11:5
26:2 analogized 44:7 44:9,12 51:15 authorizing 42:7 48:19
analysis 22:2 52:15 await 33:18 bifurcating
50:15 approach 48:13 52:20 Black 22:24
argued 46:14 B 4:17,22 6:9
37:23 39:3 26:9 38:22 bad 18:14,20 22:11,13,14,18
28:25 46:8,10,19 42:22 49:22 22:15 23:9,12,25
35:2 47:11 arises 16:17 Banks 25:20 24:13,18,23
31:25 1:15 Arizona 40:11 26:16 41:22 43:5
appellate 40:23 51:20 based 6:4 12:1 44:1,25 48:7,9
12:4,23 13:1,3 characterizati... 26:8,9,11 27:4 37:24 46:21
52:14 15:23 16:3,5 14:22 27:12,24 28:3 49:12
23:10,11 23:23 25:16,18 9:21,25 10:4,9 31:21 32:3,7 38:23 49:16
41:22 25:19 26:20 19:3,6 25:1,4,6 32:15,19 33:1 conclusions
29:3,7 38:24 39:10 31:23 32:4 36:4,11 37:4,9 19:21
30:14,22 42:5 47:14,15 42:19,25 45:4 37:14,19 38:8 concurrent 7:13
47:17 48:6 49:20 52:18 38:19 39:2 7:18 10:23
24:16 52:17,19,20 chose 48:2 42:16,20 concurrently
50:16 cases 8:24 11:1 Circuit 3:10,12 colloquially 4:6 7:1,10,14
33:7 categories 5:6 18:14 comes 23:18 confined 29:16
category 16:23 circumstances 25:18 31:16 30:21 32:23
41:10 35:13 comity 17:13 consecutive 5:5
13:21 42:8 civil 13:1 8:15 18:11,19 consecutively
15:7,10 challenge 13:16 claim 34:18 48:5 commit 18:13 4:6,19,20 6:4
28:24 13:20 15:7,12 claims 34:12,15 18:20,23 6:24 7:4 9:16
15:13,19 17:20 34:21 committed 6:21 9:19,24 10:15
13:9 47:13 50:16,18 5:2 35:20 38:24,25
51:8 challenged 12:7 clear 3:16 5:13 common 16:2,6 considered
26:18 8:6 18:7 19:22 comparable 24:14 36:18
change 13:12,16 codified 4:24,24 concept 3:20 21:23
9:3,21 character 4:9,12 45:23 conclude 41:1,6 44:9
11:9,22 5:7 35:13 Collins 1:18 2:6 concluded 25:15 contrary 21:16
17:15,18,21 20:2,3 24:20 decide 15:5 17:5 27:13
19:14,15,21 38:18,23 48:20 decided 3:11 48:24
21:1,6,6,14,19 6:21,23 7:16 decision 3:16,18 determining
24:20 25:18,19,21,22 35:21,24 36:19 20:7 21:16 dictated 22:16
10:6 11:5 26:15 28:25 criminal 12:23 37:10 38:10,17 52:15
15:11 29:2 30:8 31:1 49:13 40:9,24 43:19 difference 18:21
26:23 32:14,16,22 criteria 12:10 50:9,25 51:1 23:16 43:13
33:5,12 34:14 criterion 5:19 52:14 45:2
35:15,17 36:13 8:2 decisions 9:10 different 9:10
31:10,14 36:17 37:10,20 cruel 6:11 20:14,17 21:3 17:23 19:8,13
33:4,8 37:22,22,23 cruelty 38:12 21:7 23:4 23:5,6 24:6
45:13,15 38:10,14,15,16 39:1 declared 34:20 30:7 35:10
50:17,17 38:22 39:3,18 crystal 51:4 defendant 3:20 41:23
29:6 44:24 45:11 curiae 1:22 35:17 38:1 direct 13:15,22
46:8,10,15,16 42:23 48:22 17:12
47:9,11,15,22 custody 26:24 48:18 disagree 28:11
50:14,24 51:18 customary definition 40:6 disappeared
16:4 21:2,15 D 35:23 38:1 49:10
20:6 24:12 41:14 42:22 deliberate 38:12 discretion 9:6
22:21 47:16,16 51:1 damages 13:3 denied 34:10 19:10 41:24
24:21 Court's 3:17 date 27:10 29:9 48:22 44:3,7,22
30:1 5:21 11:20 30:5,6,8,9 31:1 Department discussed 46:4
44:24 13:23 18:2 31:2 1:21 discussing 43:7
43:17 50:9 day 50:19 depend 34:6 discussion 51:14
5:11,13 covered 10:23 dealing 11:1,3 49:9 13:10 14:8
6:1,7 49:2 28:20,21 Deputy 1:18 34:22
7:1 10:21 CREEK 1:7 dealt 25:20 described 3:19 dissent 24:1
12:9 crime 5:4,6,10 death 40:13,17 9:8 39:9,10 40:10
5:19,19 6:20 51:24 details 32:5 41:19 43:9
14:11 8:3,9,13,15 December 27:11 determination 52:1
15:5,6 10:6 18:12,13 28:20 29:8,10 13:1 44:18 dissenters 22:11
16:3,21 18:15,19,20,23 32:12 34:8 determinative 23:12 52:15
10:18 11:5 excuse 46:15 40:17,25 42:7 14:16
48:19 exercise 41:15 42:7 43:11 final 13:2,8 17:2
42:4,10 enabled 44:13 exhausted 17:2 47:1,4 48:25 34:16 45:15
43:4,6 enactment 34:11,12 factor 6:4 36:10 50:17
19:14 exhaustion 17:4 36:13 41:25 finally 51:14
encompassed 34:25 51:4 find 4:17 5:14
43:20 engaged 41:15 existed 28:10 36:16 46:14,17 48:24 49:1
45:1 enhanced 10:12 existence 28:18 46:24 47:6,14 50:3 51:5
23:13 entered 26:21 explain 39:21 facts 3:15,21 finding 4:7,11
26:22 27:19 45:9 11:6,13,18 7:10,25 8:24
15:6,9 34:8 35:14 41:19 20:12 21:12 11:4,6,24
17:6,11 entertain 33:6 explicitly 13:12 22:19 26:19 35:14,16 36:8
18:8 entry 34:6 51:9,19 27:17 34:7 36:9,21 38:18
46:15 equitable 33:14 expressing 41:6 38:14,17 39:15 38:18 51:2,10
49:10 extant 31:7 44:17,18,22 findings 11:7
48:19 especially 13:24 extent 26:3 49:1,2,3,4,5 37:13,15 38:11
43:6 ESQ 1:16,18,20 extra 6:10,15,19 fair 14:21 15:14 finger 16:19
2:3,6,9,12 7:10,15 9:3 17:18 19:5 first 3:11 12:14
45:2 essentially 16:10 18:23,24 51:2 falls 5:6 16:13,14,17
5:15,16 51:5 Federal 19:2,18 28:12,13 29:5
exactly 6:2,13 F 50:2 38:1 40:12
21:10 18:16 27:4 4:17 5:1,5,8,20 felony 48:21 Fisher 1:16 2:3
47:20 31:12,21 32:19 6:10 7:2,15 8:1 felt 39:3 2:12 3:5,6,8,24
35:3 38:8 52:6 8:24 9:1,3,14 figure 29:22 4:14,16 5:8,21
16:20 examples 8:17 28:4 29:3 30:7 27:5 28:18,19 10:1,8,17,25
37:18 exception 24:14 34:7,9 35:11 29:5,8,15,18 12:3,14 13:5
35:15 37:25 37:25 38:9,21 files 27:6,7 16:19 17:6,9
20:16,19 46:10 49:19 guilt 11:7 48:19 home 25:18 indicate 31:25
23:2 52:16 49:15 51:24 Honor 27:4,13indication 30:1
26:7 guilty 24:25 27:24 28:4 inference 15:14
28:15 G 40:12 29:6,13 30:19
49:21,22 G 3:1 guts 21:20 22:1 31:12,22 32:3 48:23
52:19 gatekeeping 32:7,16,19 innocence 49:15
47:8 Gideon 48:14 14:16 16:16 37:14,19 39:2
47:7 20:14,18 21:5 34:5 46:1 Horn 25:20,24intermediate
40:20 52:9 hand 28:16 50:25 51:4 interpret 48:3
24:11 given 5:2 22:6 17:10 50:7 idea 22:15 interpreted
28:24 29:24 51:6 impact 49:2 invoke 5:14
34:23 35:6 49:11 12:4 involve 41:23
42:1,7 going 9:18 10:6 heard 28:16 implication 26:14 31:16,17
17:5,19 20:15 30:3 30:23 35:8 40:8 45:8
22:16 47:12 48:2 held 9:13 10:21 48:13,14 issued 27:23
35:21 gotten 13:10 help 8:5 36:21 impose 3:14 J
38:18 governing 12:8 helpful 18:4 imposed 6:2 JA 13:14,14
39:4 34:25 23:3 24:21 JEFFREY 1:16
51:3 greater 24:24 he'll 36:24 imposing 38:4 2:3,12 3:6
45:25 historical 21:22 21:23 29:4 32:1,21
guideline 41:21 history 32:5 increases 39:13 46:12
guidelines 19:2 holding 22:1 incremental 5:4 4:10,17,21
41:10 43:24 44:11 holistically 26:3 36:14 45:23 10:17 11:4
17:1,6 jurist 22:4,6,8 49:20 52:1,9 legislative 19:14 21:6,15 23:22
18:8 45:1 52:18 legislature 24:4 40:23
19:20 jurists 43:5,18 justification 44:13
44:7 38:4 lenient 6:4 51:4 M
42:1 jury 3:15,22 justified 37:25 Lest 11:21 magistrate
9:15 11:8,14 44:20,22,23 let's 15:8 23:9
46:6
12:2 46:22 level 11:25 majority 9:5
51:5,9 19:11 20:13 justify 35:15 44:19
52:1,4
24:24 37:1,8 44:15 liability 13:1 making 50:11
36:23 39:14,16 46:7 limit 23:15 mandatory 49:3
40:24 52:5 K 29:23 mapped 11:22
jury's 11:6 Kansas 20:22 limited 39:19,21 March 26:21
40:17 justice 1:21 3:3 keep 35:25 limits 44:5 32:22 34:8
12:15,17 5:1,8,18 6:10 14:9,14,18,22 29:24 17:4 25:11
6:19 7:7,20 15:1 22:10,12 list 6:14 18:22
27:9
9:8 22:21 little 31:3 36:21 52:21
14:1 9:12,21,25 kidnapping 6:22 52:12 matters 25:12
15:8,9 10:4,9 12:3,22 7:3,5,6 logical 41:1,5 MATTHEW
16:8 13:5 14:3,5,9 kind 4:16 7:6 long 52:4
2:9 42:22
10:1 18:14 longer 28:9 maximum 3:13
17:1,19 15:1,20,25 36:9 48:14 LONNIE 1:3
51:12 52:6 look 7:5,12 18:1 11:15,17 19:12
17:8 19:3,6,21 know 3:24 15:24 18:5,5 21:5
20:2,3
21:4 18:4 23:24 22:3 27:14 20:10,12 21:11
22:10,12,21 30:22,24 40:11 29:7,20,23
24:11
25:1,5,6 known 5:10 18:9 32:20 37:20 39:13,14 40:7
29:9,21 25:10 26:6,11 43:18 44:17 40:7,17,18
30:7,17 26:13 27:2,9 L 50:24,25 41:3,4
27:22 28:1 L 1:16 2:3,12 looked 19:20 mean 6:12,20
29:3,7,17 3:6 49:22 20:22 36:18 9:13 28:7
32:6,13 30:14,22 31:5 label 11:15 52:3 30:21 37:14
31:13,23 32:4 labeling 24:12 looking 7:2,3 39:7,24 40:2
34:7,8 32:9,10,17,25 laid 3:18 11:2 9:17 12:25 47:3
45:14,14 33:2,13,24 14:12 27:10 28:5 means 23:24
34:17,24 35:2 language 3:23 29:3,10 32:1 39:15
16:21,22 36:6,20 37:3,6 21:25 45:18 looks 29:21 meet 12:10
49:25 37:11,17 38:6 late 50:19 37:22 mentioned
38:9,11,20 law 5:9 22:18 loose 21:25 11:11 25:24
17:4 41:5,18,19 38:15 40:11 lot 6:11 30:23 merely 42:14
42:3,11,18,19 47:8 51:11 33:13 merits 23:10
45:4 47:1,3,19 27:16 lower 16:4 20:16 50:1,23
3:16 11:10,19 40:20,22 34:9,10,22 4:16
November 1:10 42:11 43:16 51:11 predicates 34:14
52:1 14:19 16:7 46:4
37:24 occurred 31:11 page 2:2 3:18 petitions 14:4 preponderance
46:6,21 34:14 12:17 27:10,14 26:14 29:18,20 42:1 48:23
offender 37:24 27:25 29:4 30:24 49:1
offense 38:2 37:21 46:12,23 23:18 40:3 39:13,14
46:6,21 pages 17:10 place 52:7 Presumably
49:13 52:4 10:6 45:8 pluck 21:17,17 prior 9:14 12:6
once 11:16 pass 36:24 37:7 point 20:9 23:14 prisoners 45:9
23:8 33:6 21:20 pointed 37:7 pro 50:10,20
18:4 ones 31:4 40:14 51:24 points 38:11 29:14 45:6
51:12 open 44:13 permissible 12:1 42:6 48:9 procedure 48:17
26:3 51:5 11:20 18:2 permission 12:9 38:2 46:6,22 15:20 31:8
49:9 opposed 42:14 pervasively 45:5,7 progress 33:9
oral 1:12 2:2,5,8 petition 12:5,7,8 possible 16:25 proposed 43:25
17:19 order 35:15 12:18,20,20 post 25:21 proved 11:8
18:6,10 ordinary 7:18 13:9,12,25 posture 25:20 proven 6:17
20:6 8:14 18:11,18 14:7,16 15:15 potential 12:4 provision 4:21
23:4 20:2 30:16 16:7,9 26:15 practice 16:6 4:23
25:3 Oregon 21:1 26:16,17,18,25 precedent 22:22 punish 7:18
27:18,23 original 12:16 27:6,7,8 28:2,4 30:4,10,13 punishable
rape 6:22 7:3 15:4 requires 4:7 Ring 40:21,22
35:19 rarely 50:2,3 Recuenco 49:11 resentencing robbery 35:22
49:2 reach 21:15 refer 41:15 31:9 46:18 Roberts 1:20 2:9
29:23 25:13 29:24 30:5,18 Respondent 27:9,22 28:1
30:11,15 40:2 reflected 3:15 1:19,23 2:7,10 31:23 32:4
32:17 reading 14:13 45:17 respondents 45:4,4,7 47:2,9
23:25 ready 15:12 regard 28:20 respondent's 50:1 52:18
35:2 realized 21:14 regime 10:10 9:9 robust 23:20
40:3 52:8 reinforces 51:10 responding rose 44:18
24:10 relevant 11:23 rest 21:18,19 17:25 19:4,14
15:4 18:1 reason 9:7 24:9 relies 49:4,6 41:11,21 48:10,11,11
25:8 24:15 30:15 rely 44:11 46:15 resulted 32:6 49:17 52:12
27:14 38:4 39:8 46:16,24 retained 44:6 rules 48:12
34:4 51:20 relying 48:1,3 retroactively run 4:20 6:3 7:9
reasonable 6:17 remainder 26:5 13:11,16,25 7:14 8:7 9:6,16
49:19 22:5,8 43:5,18 remedies 17:2 48:8 10:19 35:18
44:7 45:1 remedy 24:23 reversal 32:17 36:12
36:17 render 49:13 review 13:15,22 runs 24:16
41:22 36:14 44:19 17:15 34:25 S
REBUTTAL reply 5:13 16:5 Revised 4:18 sake 38:21
40:13 15:15 25:4,17 29:5 10:4 12:24
49:5,6
39:4,20 42:1 51:18 52:12 standing 38:3 strongly 49:16
11:4 12:18 45:13,15,21,24 9:17 47:10 48:2 submit 13:11,23
23:25 46:5,7,22,25 single 18:22 stands 51:7,19 18:3,7 21:13
29:8,9 49:4,6 52:5 19:16 21:7 Stanford 1:16 22:2 24:2 45:2
30:8,10 sentenced 24:24 41:2 start 39:10 48:10 52:17
37:17,23 38:23,25 situation 17:23 started 35:7 submitted 9:15
39:11 sentencer 47:21 18:3 20:1 state 6:5 9:9,20 39:14 52:19,21
50:10 sentences 4:19 situations 9:4 11:3,15 13:6 subsequent 23:7
34:17 7:14,18 8:7,25 22:16 18:3 21:2,5,6 subsequently
9:6,16,23 slightly 23:6 23:5,23 37:10 29:1
18:12 9:11 19:1,19 somebody 31:1 9:5,10 42:23 successful 16:8
28:14,21 19:23 20:24 40:12 state's 14:7 20:8 successive 15:22
32:13,21 23:5 36:22 sophistication 24:10,16,17 26:14,16,17
33:1 37:23 38:3 38:12 39:1 status 19:22 28:15,19,23
35:1 44:2,4,6,8,22 sorry 5:22 8:10 statute 4:19,19 31:19 34:1,1
48:21 46:18,21,23 21:6 33:21 10:3 12:8 34:22 35:1
separate 33:3,5 sort 6:11 21:24 29:22 33:6,11 sufficient 36:1
separately 7:19 Souter 3:24 4:14 45:18,20 47:10
6:23 7:3,23,24 6:10 7:20 9:8 20:2 23:16 49:16
6:8,24,25 show 22:21 39:9 35:25 36:5 24:11 39:13,14 supported 43:8
10:12,12 shows 27:25 38:6,9,20 41:5 40:6,7,16,18 supporting 1:22
12:6,12 side 20:25 41:18 42:3,18 41:3,3 49:5 42:24
13:8,15 significant 44:6 47:1,3,19 Stevens 8:16,21 suppose 6:21
14:15 simple 20:1 speak 42:5 8:22 16:24 22:10
simply 3:17 7:17 special 7:5 17:8 32:10,17 supposed 22:3
8:10,11 9:10 specifically 40:9 32:25 36:20 25:22
24:21 10:5 11:12,19 specified 44:12 37:6,11,17 supreme 1:1,13
27:8,18 13:24 14:8 split 31:18 38:11 5:11,13,22
32:1,20 16:13 18:1 spoken 47:6 Stewart 1:6 3:4 20:22,25 21:1
19:2 20:7,9 STAFFORD 1:7 strength 51:10 21:5,6,14
35:8,9 21:16 24:12 stand 20:24 stringent 12:10 32:14 37:10
26:19 28:9 50:20 Stringer 22:23 sure 8:20 9:12
31:15 38:23,24 standard 35:18 22:24 23:2 32:10 41:17
38:5 42:13 50:24 48:24 49:1,6 strong 22:23 47:3
20:24 50:11 told 13:12,13,21 U W
23:6 things 33:22 15:16,17 17:11 ultimate 47:21 wait 14:20 15:12
43:24,25 think 14:3,11,12 18:3 31:24 52:5 15:19 34:12,16
45:12 14:21 15:3,14 traditional 40:7 underlying waived 31:15
51:17 16:20 17:9,17 41:3 44:8 46:1 39:19 Walton 40:10,11
52:2 19:3,5 20:19 treat 47:19,21 understand 9:13 40:25 43:18
21:2,4 22:12 treatment 10:22 22:13 25:19 51:15,19
44:2 24:2,13 25:4 trial 16:15 18:8 51:20 18:25 20:20
49:7 26:1 27:13 19:20 32:16 understanding 21:5 35:6 39:6
29:10 34:14 35:14 45:17 39:8 50:23
19:12 37:14 38:19 48:16,21 49:9 unitary 45:14,14 Washington 1:9
22:7 39:23 40:1,4,5 49:14,18 50:11 United 1:1,13,22 1:21 4:18,18
37:20 40:9,19 41:18 50:14 51:9 42:23 4:23 5:3,9,11
40:18 42:5 45:24 tries 31:16 unnecessary 5:13,22,25 6:1
48:6 46:25 47:14 trigger 6:9 8:6 37:18 6:5,7 7:1,9,13
33:11 thought 5:1 28:1 true 8:17,18 unreliable 49:14 36:2 43:24
31:24 36:6 16:25 18:16 upholding 41:21 44:2,5 47:16
thousands 29:18 trust 42:10 U.S.C 45:18 wasn't 22:15
three 6:21,25 trying 29:20 V 46:15
50:24 8:12 11:16 Tuesday 1:10 vacate 45:21 24:14,14,18
36:14 42:6 turn 17:25 48:7 value 7:25 8:1 25:9,11,13,16
thresholds 19:8 14:4 18:11 21:12 36:23 23:13,17 30:16
49:20 26:5 28:18 46:13,16 47:11 25:20 40:10 41:20
30:15 31:8 47:12,13,17,25 view 24:10 went 12:11
38:11 32:22 38:2 52 37:21 46:12
50:8 18 35:17 36:21 53 37:21 46:12
29:3 1994 12:17,19
41:12 13:13,16 14:24 6
48:1,2 15:8,11 26:18 606 6:6,6
28:9,13 29:10 7
27:14
26:9 15:9,13 26:21
32:5 20 37:12 38:12
39:19 2254(d)(1) 25:14
2255 45:18,25
50:5 27 35:16
2:4 27:25
29:4,4
4:24
1:5 4
13:14 17:11
400 4:25
18:12 42 2:10
1:14 3:2 482 21:20
52:20 483 3:18 21:20
33:15 49 2:13
6:6,6
27:11 29:10 5
