IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MICHAEL H. BOULWARE, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1509
UNITED STATES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 8, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:52 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JOHN D. CLINE, ESQ., San Francisco, Cal.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
DEANNE E. MAYNARD, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JOHN D. CLINE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
DEANNE E. MAYNARD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 20
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN D. CLINE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:52 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 06-1509, Boulware v. United States.
Mr. Cline.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN D. CLINE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CLINE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Congress placed the phrase "with respect to
its stock" in Section 301(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code to make clear that the taxation rules in Section
301(c) do not apply to corporate payments that a
shareholder receives in a nonshareholder capacity.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I ask you a question
which is going to come up sooner or later? And it's
kind of a threshold question. So, if I may, let me
interrupt you with it now. You emphasize the
significance of the limiting condition "with respect to
the stock." But before you get to that phrase, Section
301 refers to a distribution by the corporation. And my
question is this: Let's assume that we -- we accept
your -- your position that the circuit was wrong in
requiring an offer of proof of intent to return capital.
Isn't it also the case that you would still have an
obligation, if you're going to take advantage of this
section, to offer some evidence with respect to the fact
that there was a corporate distribution involved? And
as I understand it, your evidence is or the Government's
evidence and yours is that, you know, there was
skimming, there was misdirection, et cetera, but there
was no indication, there's no evidence that there was
any distribution, in the normal sense of that word, by a
corporation.
So it seems to me that if you -- if you win
the case in the sense of convincing us that the circuit
was wrong with respect to the specific intent
requirement, you would still be left without a defense
because you have not come forward with any evidence that
indicates a distribution. Am I wrong?
MR. CLINE: Yes, Your Honor, I believe you
are.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I thought you were going to
say that.
(Laughter.)
MR. CLINE: Although I agree that the
question of a distribution is important, and I think
implicit in that question, in that term, although the
courts have not addressed it, is some sort of corporate
action. Where you have a controlling shareholder, as we
do here with Mr. Boulware, who is a 50 percent share
owner, he's the president, he's the founder, he
dominates this company, his action is action on behalf
of the corporation.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it certainly can be,
and there's no question about that, but isn't there some
point of informality or some point, I guess, of
formality or relevance to corporate practice that has to
be reached? In other words, he may keep lousy books, he
may be very sloppy, but directing funds to one's
girlfriend is not the act of a corporation. And it
seems to me that the kind of -- of actions that he took
to get or to direct the payment of moneys could not, by
any stretch of the imagination, be regarded as an act of
this corporation or of any corporation.
MR. CLINE: With respect, Justice Souter,
Justice Souter, I disagree. There are, I've discovered,
hundreds of corporate diversion cases involving a very
similar fact pattern and a very similar fact pattern to
this, where have you a corporation that is really the
creature of one person. It's formed by one person. He
chose the corporate form, but in effect he is the
corporation. That's the case of Mr. Boulware and it's
the case in a lot of these diversion cases, and --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, in this case, he's a
50 percent owner, as I understand it. He formed the
corporation, but isn't 50 percent of the stock owned by
the trust for the love child of him and the girlfriend?
MR. CLINE: It is indeed, although it's
important to keep in mind that the girlfriend, according
to the Government's evidence, received a very large
chunk of this money. So in effect what we have here is
a situation where you not only have a 50 percent
shareholder who dominates the corporation; the other 50
percent -- the trustee for the other 50 percent
shareholder is the recipient of the money and is
certainly knowledgeable about most, if not all, of
what's going on.
But in these circumstances where you have a
close corporation typically run very informally, as this
one was, with one person who dominates it, the courts
have uniformly taken the view that, the Tax Court has
and for that matter the Government has in every case
except this one, that when the controlling dominant
shareholder takes money from his corporation, that's a
distribution by the corporation. And although -- Your
Honor, I had thought about this question myself before
you raised it. The cases don't pause on that issue.
They move directly to the question of whether it's taken
in some other capacity, as compensation, for example, or
as a loan.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, perhaps because --
because the Government might very well be on the other
side of that question, that is the dominant shareholder
takes money from the corporation, gives it to his
girlfriend, and the Government is saying that
corporation had earnings and profits, we want to tax
this as a dividend to you.
MR. CLINE: Well, yes, Justice Ginsburg.
The way this often comes up, the Government usually
takes the opposite position --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. CLINE: -- to what it's taken here. It
usually takes our position, and here's the reason why:
First of all, a lot of times, as in this case, some of
the money that is coming toward the corporation is
intercepted by the controlling shareholder. And the
question then is, was it ever income to the corporation?
Well, of course, the Government wants to say that it was
because they want to tax it twice, at the corporate
level and then again at the individual level. And the
issue there again is one of control. If it's the
controlling shareholder, even though he gets the money
before it ever hits the corporate bank account. It's
considered income to the corporation.
It also comes up when the corporation wants
to claim a theft deduction or embezzlement deduction.
That again is a common fact pattern in these cases. The
corporation -- everything comes to light, the IRS
conducts its investigation, now the corporation wants to
avoid its tax. Sure the individual is going to get
taxed, but it wants to avoid its tax. And so, it claims
that there was a theft or an embezzlement by the
shareholder and it's entitled to a deduction and
shouldn't have to pay tax on that money.
And again, the Government uniformly takes
the position that a controlling shareholder, such as
Mr. Boulware, can't embezzle from his own corporation,
which is essentially the position that we're taking
here.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it may be that he
cannot embezzle in the sense of committing a separate
private act or even a separate, a separate tort that the
corporation could object to. But the question still
remains -- excuse me -- whether the act of, of taking
the money in this unorthodox way could be regarded as a
corporate act within the meaning of the term
"distribution." And I think I understand your point,
but I guess the only point that I'm making is the fact
that it may not qualify as embezzlement, civilly or
criminally, does not necessarily answer the objection
that I'm raising.
MR. CLINE: I agree with that point, Justice
Souter.
But one other point I would emphasize is
that I think if you start to say that an act by the
controlling shareholder, which is Mr. Boulware, does not
constitute a distribution by his corporation, there are
going to be unintended consequences of that. One of
which is that in a situation where a controlling
shareholder such as Mr. Boulware intercepts money coming
into the corporation, you're going to have the
corporation coming in and arguing that that
interception, that taking in of money wasn't an act of
the corporation, and so, there is no income to us. And
I think that's why the courts in a whole series --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That explains why I'm
making the argument and the Government wasn't in its
brief?
MR. CLINE: I think it does.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you did say something
about the interception that -- your argument is that
this corporation had no earnings and profits, so what
the shareholder got was a return of capital. But part
of what was involved was he was taking, I thought,
receipts for goods that customers were -- had paid and
giving them to the girlfriend.
In determining whether that corporation had
any earnings and profits, wouldn't you have to credit
the corporation? In other words, did you prove that
there was no -- that there were no earnings and profits?
You would have to prove that, wouldn't you?
MR. CLINE: The way I believe it would work
with a properly instructed jury in the district court is
as follows: I think Mr. Boulware would have the burden
of coming forward with some evidence that the
corporation did not have earnings or profits and that
his basis exceeded the amount of the diversion. I think
at that point, if he comes forward with some evidence,
and Bok talks about this, Leonard talks about this --
JUSTICE SCALIA: For which purpose you'd
include the receipts?
MR. CLINE: I beg your pardon?
JUSTICE SCALIA: For which purpose you would
include the receipts that he sent to his girlfriend
instead of putting them in the corporate treasury?
MR. CLINE: Your Honor, I believe that is
correct, but I'm not certain. What I can tell you about
earnings and profits and basis as well is this. It is a
very complicated calculation, and I think it would be
hotly disputed in the district court. I would expect
the Government to argue that the company did have
earnings and profits and that Mr. Boulware's basis is
less than he contends it is. I think it would
ultimately be a question of fact for the jury.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I also wanted to know
whether there is in the record the corporation's balance
sheet? It was frankly hard for me to believe that this
was not in excess of basis. You don't usually
capitalize corporations for $10 million. But I don't
have any basis other than just an assumption to make
that observation. Is the corporate balance sheet with
the capital structure in the record?
MR. CLINE: I don't believe so, Your Honor.
But what is in the record, and it's also in the joint
appendix, is the fairly sketchy evidence of both basis
and earnings and profits that was introduced. But there
was not a full presentation of those issues.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was it introduced by the
Government or by the defendant?
MR. CLINE: It came in -- I must say it came
in more or less by happenstance, because neither party
was really looking at the question of earnings and
profits or basis because the trial court had ruled those
out. But, for example, on cross-examination I believe
of Mr. Boulware's accountant -- this is at page 42 of
the joint appendix -- Mr. Boulware's lawyer elicited
that the corporation had not had earnings and profits
during the years in question. That was not explored at
all. But there is that statement in the record.
There is also -- I'm sorry, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not, I'm not sure if
what the Government is maintaining here is so
prejudicial to its position in other cases, which was
the earlier discussion we were having. Here there is
simply nothing on the corporate records to show that
this was a distribution with respect to stock. I don't
care whether this is earnings and profits or in excess
of basis. But there's just no indication of the
distribution with respect to stock, and you have two
shareholders. Under Hawaiian law, can you make a
disproportionate distribution to shareholders so one
person gets capital back and the other doesn't and
there's no redemption of shares?
MR. CLINE: I think it is entirely possible
that under Hawaiian law a minority shareholder or
noncontrolling shareholder who was treated unfairly by
the controlling shareholder might have a cause of action
under State law. But I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That was, that was the
qualification that the Second Circuit made in its
D'Agostino case. It said if there's a violation of
corporate law then our rule doesn't apply.
MR. CLINE: Well, except, Your Honor, that
the way these cases have played out is that there are
numerous cases, dozens of them, where there are minority
shareholders oftentimes unwitting of what the majority
shareholder is using. Those minority shareholders
certainly have rights. They can sue under State law.
They can do any number of things.
But their rights and the possible violation
of their rights -- and I emphasize possible, because no
one has ever established that Mr. Boulware did anything
wrong with respect to anyone -- those don't drive the
Federal tax treatment.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but that's the whole
point. The fact that he doesn't show this as a
distribution indicates that he couldn't do this under
Federal law, so it must be something -- under State law,
so it must be something other than a distribution.
MR. CLINE: I think, Your Honor, that where
the controlling shareholder of the corporation does
something with corporate funds, and in this case
transfers them to himself, I think that's a
distribution. And I think that it is properly treated
under Federal law, under Federal tax law, for purposes
of Federal tax law as a distribution by the corporation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm less concerned with the
word "distribution" in the statute than I am with the
phrase "with respect to its stock" -- "distribution made
by a corporation to a shareholder with respect to its
stock."
Now, the court below held that there had to
be a conscious intent to return capital. Even if I
disagree with that and think that that was wrong, isn't
the Government right that it nonetheless is the burden
to establish that the distribution here was a
distribution with respect to stock, and the distribution
was given to the girlfriend who owns no stock in the
corporation. How does it become a distribution with
respect to stock?
MR. CLINE: Well, Your Honor, that gets back
to where I -- to where I began the argument. The phrase
"with respect to stock" has never received in any case
or any argument, as far as I know, the significance that
the Government is trying to accord it here. What that
phrase -- it was put in the 1954 Code. And the purpose
of putting it in the code was simply to distinguish
transfers to shareholders in a capacity where the
shareholder is effectively returning consideration --
shareholder employees, shareholder vendors, shareholder
creditors --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or girlfriends. I mean,
why doesn't it distinguish a girlfriend as much as it
distinguishes an employee who's receiving back a loan?
MR. CLINE: Because the issue, Your Honor,
is not the recipient of the funds. I mean, the money is
going to be taxed to Mr. Boulware if it's taxable
regardless of where he diverted it. For example, there
are again dozens of these cases where controlling
shareholders divert corporate assets to their family
members, and the issue is whether it's a constructive
dividend to that corporate shareholder. Here the
question, regardless of where Mr. Boulware --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the Government would
say yes?
MR. CLINE: Absolutely. The Government in
every case says yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, they're really --
they're really between a rock and a hard place on this
stuff.
MR. CLINE: Well, because, Your Honor, they
want -- they want the controlling shareholder, the
person in Mr. Boulware's situation, to pay tax. And, of
course in most cases -- in most cases, again, it's to
the Government's advantage to argue the position that
we're arguing here. And the reason is most corporations
have earnings and profits. Most shareholders don't have
enough basis to cover their tax until the Government
wants to hit it at both levels, it wants the corporate
tax and it wants the individual tax. And so, it argues
readily that this is a distribution with respect to
stock.
That phrase was -- was put in the 1954 Code
to distinguish one capacity from another. The
Government has argued that it should receive some sort
of a causal type meaning. There should be a causal
link, that Mr. Boulware should have to establish that he
received the stock because he was a shareholder.
If that's the standard, first of all, it's a
different standard than what the district court and the
Ninth Circuit required Mr. Boulware to meet. So he
ought to have a chance to satisfy the standard.
Second, that standard doesn't necessarily
require any form of intent. There's nothing in the
phrase "with respect to stock" that talks about intent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We don't -- and this
may be the point that you just made, but I want to
clarify it. We don't have to decide whether this
diversion was with respect to stock, because you put
that at issue, and you weren't allowed to make that --
MR. CLINE: Absolutely, Your Honor. What --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose it would
be open on remand for the Government to argue it was not
with respect to stock for the reasons that have come
out, that it was just a diversion?
MR. CLINE: The Government could argue that,
but, Mr. Chief Justice, I have to say I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are pretty sure they
won't.
MR. CLINE: I would be astounded if they
took that position, because it would be so contrary to
the position they take in every other case.
But to get back to your basic point, yes,
Mr. Boulware was asked to meet a standard that no one
defends in this Court. The Government isn't here
defending the intent to have a return of capital
standard. And part of the reason they don't defend it
is it's an impossible concept. You don't know if you
have a return of capital until you know if you have a
dividend. And you don't know that until -- until the
end of the tax year.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the -- the
Government did say that this accountant -- what was his
name, Monango, or something like that?
MR. CLINE: Monago, yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Testified at the trial
that there was no return of capital in the relevant
year.
MR. CLINE: What Mr. Monago testified to was
that there weren't any payments out of the capital
account, and that's undisputed. But that's not the
question.
Those sorts of corporate formalities are not
determinative, or even particularly helpful, in these
constructive dividend types of cases.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, under the
Government's intent test, I suppose if you have a
calendar year and the distribution is made in June, that
the Government could say: What we want to show -- we
want you to show that there was an intent to make a
distribution with respect to stock at that time.
Whether or not it was a dividend, whether or
not it was a return of capital, we won't know until the
end of the year. I suppose they could try to argue
that.
MR. CLINE: That is what they're arguing.
Now, two things about that Justice Kennedy:
First, that's not the standard Mr. Boulware
was required to meet in the district court. The
standard there was intent that it be a return of
capital. And that's a different thing than an intent
that it be with respect to stock.
An intent that it be a return of capital
suggests that you know what a return of capital is. You
know about earnings and profits. You know about basis.
And I can tell you that Mr. Boulware, who was an
unsophisticated man, didn't know any of those things at
the time; and so, of course, he couldn't meet the
standard he was required to meet. If this Court were to
agree with the Government that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You mean to say the
Government can't argue that this -- the Defendant has to
show that it was a distribution with respect to stock
and that that was his intent. Whether or not it was a
dividend, whether or not it was a return of capital, we
wait.
MR. CLINE: I don't think that's the right
standard, but even if this Court decides that it is,
that's not the standard Mr. Boulware was required to
meet in the trial court. He was required to show an
intent that it be a return of capital, and he couldn't
meet that standard.
If this Court were to decide -- and I
suggest it would be the wrong standard, but if this
court were to decide that the correct standard were an
intent that it be with respect to stock, Mr. Boulware
could meet that standard.
He was never given the opportunity to meet
it before, but he could meet that if this Court were to
decide that that was the standard in the sense that he
could certainly show that, to the extent he got this
money personally, he got it because he was a
stockholder. And he knew he was getting it because he
was a stockholder.
But he never had a chance to meet the
standard, because it wasn't the standard that the
Government urged in the trial court or even before the
panel on appeal.
Unless the Court has further questions, I'd
like to reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Cline.
Ms. Maynard.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DEANNE E. MAYNARD
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. MAYNARD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In the Government's view, to make a
sufficient proffer of a return of capital defense a
Defendant must point to some factual evidence to support
three elements:
First, that there was a distribution with
respect to stock. Second, that the corporation lacked
earnings and profits during the relevant tax years.
And, third, that the Defendant had a sufficient basis in
his stock to cover the funds received.
The question before this Court relates to
the first element.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The court below didn't give
him a chance --
MS. MAYNARD: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to establish that. The
court below required him to show an intent to distribute
capital.
MS. MAYNARD: And the Government here
believes that the correct test is the rule of the Ninth
Circuit, Your Honor. The Government believes that
before a defendant may present a return of capital
defense to the jury, there must be some evidence that
the corporation intended, as objectively inferred from
all the facts and circumstances, to make a distribution
with respect to its stock at the time the funds were
taken.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if it turned out that
there were earnings and profits and everything else was
the same, would the Government be taking the position
that the proper test is: Was this a distribution with
respect to stock?
MS. MAYNARD: In -- in every case, Your
Honor, the question about whether or not the Section 301
tax treatment applies, the Government believes that
turns on all the facts and circumstances and that there
must be some facts and circumstances suggesting that it
was a distribution with respect to stock.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose the government --
the corporation is rich with earnings and profits.
Would the Government be saying: Oh, aha. So we have to
go through the motions of first seeing was this a
distribution with respect to stock?
I thought that the idea of was it "a
distribution with respect to stock" refers to was it --
was the corporation -- was there to be any quid pro quo?
That is, the shareholder gets money from the
corporation. Is the shareholder expected to pay it
back, or is it just that it comes out of the corporation
into the shareholder's pocket with no expectation by the
corporation to get it back?
I thought that that's what "with respect to
stock" means instead of "with respect to salary," "with
respect to a loan." That's what I thought was the
understanding of the term. Am I wrong about it?
MS. MAYNARD: That is half of the
understanding of the term. I do think it is, as
Petitioner says, a term of art. There are two parts to
the term of art with respect to stock, Your Honor.
It is, as you say, funds that you receive
without consideration. But it is also funds that you
receive solely because of your status as a shareholder.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that was -- we're just
not on the same page here. That's not what the -- the
decision you're defending said.
The decision you're defending did not say
that it was incumbent on the defendant to show that it
was with respect to stock. They said it was incumbent
on the defendant to show that it was intended to be a
return of capital.
MS. MAYNARD: Well, that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's just a wholly
different issue, and it seems to me the best you can get
out of this case, the way you're arguing it, is a remand
for them to apply the proper test.
MS. MAYNARD: I think the test that I'm
articulating is the Ninth Circuit's test in this
circumstance, Your Honor. In Miller, which is the
genesis of the Ninth Circuit's test, the court said --
and this is on page 545 at 1214 -- "We, therefore,
conclude that whether diverted funds constitute
constructive corporate distributions" -- and that would
include dividends, return of capital, or capital gain --
"depends on the factual circumstances involved in each
case under consideration."
And then it went on to say, before a
defendant could proffer a defense of return of capital,
the taxpayer had to make some demonstration that this --
such distributions were intended to be such a return of
capital --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it depends on what
you mean by that. The Ninth Circuit said, quote, about
what he has to show, that he has to show not merely that
the funds could have been a return of capital, but that
the funds were, in fact, the return of capital "at the
time of transfer."
Then, they go on to say, since there was no
evidence that they were considered, intended or recorded
on the corporate records as a return of capital at the
time they were made, then it isn't a return of capital.
Now, I thought everybody thinks that's
wrong, because you might have an absolute distribution
that absolutely counts as a distribution to every
shareholder in the corporation. And at the time they
all think the company's going to make a billion dollars,
but it just turns out that they have a loss of a billion
dollars, in which case at the end of the tax year that
would count as a return of capital if the basis were
high enough, and it would not count as a dividend. Am I
wrong?
MS. MAYNARD: No. You may not know at the
time the funds are paid whether or not that --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, fine. So if we
do not know, that's the end of the Ninth Circuit test,
isn't it? Because the Ninth Circuit test says: What we
want to do is to look at the books at the time of the
distribution and see if it is entered on those books as
a return of capital. That's how I read it.
MS. MAYNARD: If you -- if you -- it would
be more accurate to say: At the time, was it intended,
as objectively manifested from all the facts and
circumstances, to be a distribution --
JUSTICE BREYER: No. No. It was not. What
they thought at the time they distributed it was
fabulous dividends because we are going to be rich.
MS. MAYNARD: But if --
JUSTICE BREYER: My example was they just
made a little mistake. Instead, the corporation is
close to bankrupt, so there are no earnings or profits.
Is it then a return of capital or not?
MS. MAYNARD: It could be a return of
capital depending on the person's stock.
JUSTICE BREYER: The basis? He has more
than enough basis. He has a $14 trillion basis, okay?
So there is no problem about that.
MS. MAYNARD: But here he -- the defendant
--
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. And so it is a
return of capital. So, therefore, the test is wrong.
MS. MAYNARD: It would be a return -- but
the point, Your Honor, is that the test is whether or
not at the time the funds were taken, the corporation
intended to be making a distribution with respect to its
stock.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, aren't you -- aren't
you saying not that the -- that the test of intent that
the Ninth Circuit used is, in itself, a sufficient test;
but that, rather -- and correct me if I'm wrong, because
I thought this was the basis really of your argument.
I thought the Government, in effect, was
saying in order to treat it as a return of capital, it
is a necessary condition that it be intended to be
treated as a return of capital.
But that is not a sufficient condition,
because if, in fact, it turns out, as in Justice
Breyer's example, that there are no earnings, then under
301 it can't be treated as -- as a dividend. And only
then, under 301, would it be treated as a return of
capital.
So the conditions are, No. 1 necessary
intent; No. 2, a determination at the end of the year
that, in fact, there were no earnings.
Conversely, if at the end of the year there
are profits, even though the first necessary condition,
intent, was satisfied, under 301 that would not be
enough; and the Government would treat it as income.
Isn't that the nub of your position?
MS. MAYNARD: If it were with respect to
stock and there were --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes. Yes.
MS. MAYNARD: -- earning profits, and it was
then income --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I doubt that. Then --
then, you would say, when it is not a criminal
prosecution for failure to pay taxes, so long as
somebody, when they take the money, intended it to be a
return of dividends, it does not become a return of
capital. Are you sure you're willing to live with that
intent requirement?
MS. MAYNARD: If at the time the corporation
made a distribution, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: At the time -- is it
important for the tax treatment that at the time of the
distribution it be intended to be either a return of
capital or dividends? Does that make the difference as
to whether you're going to be able to tax it or not?
MS. MAYNARD: It depends in all cases, in
both criminal and civil cases -- and in that sense the
Government doesn't agree with the Ninth Circuit's
reasoning -- in all cases whether or not something gets
the tax treatment set forth in 301(a) depends on whether
or not it's a distribution with respect to stock.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I'm not -- we are not
talking about distribution.
MS. MAYNARD: Okay, I'm sorry. I
misunderstood your question.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We are talking about the
intent that it be a return of capital or not.
MS. MAYNARD: If it -- - if the
Government -- if it was intended at the time it was paid
out to either be a dividend or return of capital or a
capital gain --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Either one.
MS. MAYNARD: -- that would be enough to
satisfy the -- with respect to stock --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It could be anything at
all. So in other words, there is no preliminary
requirement that you intend that it be a return of
capital. Right. So if the Court of Appeals said that
here, it was wrong.
MS. MAYNARD: I think if the court chooses
to read their test that rigidly, I don't believe that
the Petitioner understood it that way.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well I -- let me -- I just
want to get clear on how you understand it. I gave you
one alternative in which you defend the Ninth Circuit.
Justice Scalia has given you another alternative in
which you don't defend the Ninth Circuit. Which --
which are you going to take?
MS. MAYNARD: I must not understand. There
are three elements. I want to make clear there is an
additional element, Your Honor, to the defense than the
two you laid out.
That there would also -- the taxpayer must
have a sufficient basis in his stock to cover the amount
of the diverted funds for it to be treated as a return
of capital.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I try a third example?
Because I think an example might help.
Let us imagine that the company distributes
$10,000 on June 1 to every shareholder.
Let us imagine that every shareholder has a
basis of a trillion dollars in his stock. There is no
problem about basis. There is no problem about the
nature of the distribution.
Let us imagine they put in the corporate
records on June 1: This is a very valuable corporation;
we are going to make a fortune; and this is a dividend.
They write it down.
Now, unfortunately, four weeks later the
bottom falls out of the market, and it is not a dividend
for the reason that they have no profits that year.
Now, is it not under ordinary tax law a return of
capital?
MS. MAYNARD: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MS. MAYNARD: If --
JUSTICE BREYER: If that -- once you say
yes, then the Ninth Circuit must be wrong because the
Ninth Circuit said we do not look to see what happens.
MS. MAYNARD: If that's how --
JUSTICE BREYER: A month later, we look just
to see how it's characterized by the corporation at the
moment of the transfer.
MS. MAYNARD: If one reads the Ninth
Circuit's test that rigidly --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's what they
said.
MS. MAYNARD: -- perhaps that would be
right. But I believe if one looks back to Miller, you
can see that the Ninth Circuit is talking about whether
or not it was a constructive distribution.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but why talk about
that at all? I mean, on Justice Breyer's third and
simplest example, he is basically saying let Section 301
make the determination, in effect, at the end of the
year, when we know what the actual situation of the
corporation is. If you wait and see, 301 takes care of
it, and you don't have to get into the -- sort of the
metaphysics of intent.
MS. MAYNARD: Well, there is a threshold
requirement to 301 treatment, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes. Distribution with --
distribution with respect to stock.
MS. MAYNARD: Right. And there --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And I think he was assuming
and I'm assuming that -- that that condition is met.
But, in order to meet that condition, you don't have to
have a specific intent that the -- on the part of the
corporation that the distribution either be a return of
capital or that the distribution either be a dividend.
It simply has to be a distribution to this guy because
he is a stockholder.
MS. MAYNARD: That's right, Your Honor. We
agree with that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MS. MAYNARD: If he had testified here that
he believed he was receiving a dividend at the time he
took these funds, we believe that would be sufficient to
meet the threshold requirement.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He wants a chance to argue
that. He was not given a chance to argue that.
MS. MAYNARD: I believe you can tell from
his proffer, Your Honor, that he understood his test was
to show that these were intended to be some sort of
constructive distributions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was there anything in the
tax court at all that used the words as having any
significance for this determination whether there was a
tax evasion here with respect to this stock? Was there
any -- any hint that those -- those words were
controlling?
MS. MAYNARD: In the Ninth Circuit?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In the tax court
originally. Was this a -- this was in the tax court?
MS. MAYNARD: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is a criminal case.
MS. MAYNARD: A criminal case, yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Okay. In the trial court
first.
MS. MAYNARD: In -- in -- the rule has been
clear in the Ninth Circuit since 1976 that you had to
make a showing that there was an intent at the time the
moneys were paid to make a constructive distribution.
So, no, there was no need to go back to
first principles and argue where in the statute that
rule was grounded; but the Government has made this
argument and made it in seeking an en banc prehearing in
D'Agostino, in 1998.
This is not a new argument. When -- when
the issue was reopened and they sought en banc review,
the Government --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Can I can ask you sort of
an elementary, stupid question? What is the
Government's theory as to what this money was? Is it
the theory that it was a dividend or that it was salary?
MS. MAYNARD: The Government's theory of the
case, Your Honor -- but I'd like to step back and
explain it after I tell you what it was. The
Government's theory of the case was that this money was
stolen from the corporation. But in a criminal case, in
order to show tax a deficiency for purposes of tax
evasion or --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So your theory, just to be
sure I understand, it was not salary; it was not a
dividend; it was the proceeds of an embezzlement?
MS. MAYNARD: That was as we argued it to
the jury, Your Honor. But there is no need in -- for
the Government to characterize in a tax -- for the
purposes of a criminal case, this Court's decision in
Holland makes clear that in order to prove the tax
deficiency element of a tax evasion case, or here a
false statement with respect to income for the false
return counts, the Government need prove only two
things:
One, that the Defendant received a
substantial amount of funds that he did not report on
his income taxes.
And, two, that the funds came from a likely
source of taxable income.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It does not have to prove
that it was income.
MS. MAYNARD: It has to prove that it came
from a likely source of taxable income. I mean, to
prove that here, Your Honor --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I just want to be sure I
have the right answer. You do not have to prove that it
was income?
MS. MAYNARD: That is a proof -- that it's
income. We don't have to label what type of income it
is.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's income to him. You
would be taking a different position if you thought you
could attribute it to the corporation and tax the
corporation, too.
MS. MAYNARD: The fact that it's -- it's
income to him. It may or may not be income to the
corporation. We also believe that it was income to the
corporation.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Right. And if you want to
go after the corporation, you are specifically going to
take the position in this guy's case that, in fact, it
was income to the corporation. If there is no income to
the corporation, then you don't care, and that's the
situation you're in here.
MS. MAYNARD: It was income to the
corporation, Your Honor, even here.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it was not profits; it
was not taxable income.
MS. MAYNARD: Yes. It should have been
income to the corporation, and --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It was not taxable income.
MS. MAYNARD: Yes, it should have been.
Yes, Your Honor, it should have been taxable income to
the corporation, income that was coming to the
corporation that he diverted before it hit the corporate
-- just before it hit the corporation's books. In other
instances, he took money from the corporation and put it
to his personal use.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under your response to
Justice Stevens, once you show that it was from a likely
source of income that he received it, it's unreported,
then it's the defendant's burden to go ahead and show
this was a 301 distribution, that I had a basis that
absorbed it, that there were no earnings and profits.
That's all for the defendant.
MS. MAYNARD: The Government retains the
ultimate burden of proof at all times, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the court
didn't let the taxpayer submit evidence. He came
forward and said: Look, there's an issue here despite
the return of capital. I would have thought at that
point the burden shifted to you again. That burden --
having met that burden of production or at least tried
to, the burden would shift to you to show, no, it's not
a return of capital, it's a dividend.
MS. MAYNARD: Here he -- in order to make
the -- to make out a case, to be allowed to present a
defense to the jury, Your Honor, that the funds are
nontaxable, the defense must have some basis in fact.
And here he proffered nothing to show that this was a
dividend or a return of capital at the time it was made.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He said in his
proffer that he would present expert testimony that this
-- the corporation didn't have profits and earnings, and
therefore it was a return of capital. And the district
court said no, you don't get to do that.
MS. MAYNARD: It is -- I think this is, in
his proffer, the relevant portion of it, is in the JA on
page 97.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MS. MAYNARD: And it says: "Alternatively,
the expert will explain that if the moneys were not
loans or advances or if Boulware did not use the moneys
for corporate purposes, then as the controlling
shareholder, the moneys could be deemed a constructive
return" -- "a constructive dividend or return of capital
to Boulware, which may or may not be income, depending
on whether or not HIE" -- the corporation -- "had
earnings and profits for the years when the moneys were
obtained by Boulware."
That's all he proffered, an expert who would
testify that it could have been either dividends,
Justice Breyer, or a return of capital. So he did
realize that he needed to show --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. I mean, the
district court -- the district court said that's not
relevant, it's not relevant whether they could be
classified as dividends. I'm quoting from your brief on
page 8: "It is not relevant whether the funds could
have been classified as a return of capital or a
dividend at the time when they were diverted," because,
he said, what was relevant is -- is the intent, whether
they were in fact treated as return of capital.
MS. MAYNARD: That's right, Your Honor, and
our position is that in both civil and criminal cases
before something can be treated under the tax treatment
in 301(c), it must meet 301(a), which requires that,
under all the facts and circumstances it in fact be a
distribution, either a dividend or return of capital.
And all his proffer testifies -- all his proffer offered
is that it theoretically could be deemed a dividend or
theoretically could be deemed a return of capital.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I think maybe he was simply
getting at the fact that under 301, assuming the
possibilities of non-301 treatment are excluded, under
301 it will be treated either as a dividend or as a
return of capital, depending on the corporate books for
that year, and he wasn't making a proffer at that point
precisely as to what those corporate books would show,
but he was making a proffer that, under 301, it would
either be classified as a dividend or as a return of
capital. And wasn't that enough to -- to get him -- get
him the right to introduce the evidence?
MS. MAYNARD: No, Your Honor. In our view,
301(a), the language with respect to stock, and the
regulations have so interpreted it and the legislative
history makes clear that it was added to the 1954 Code
specifically to show that, before distributions can
receive that treatment. Regardless of what the facts
are about E and P and regardless of what the facts are
about the basis, it had to have been a corporate
distribution with respect to stock.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but if he is
making a profit and it depends upon whether or not
there's adequate earnings or not, isn't he plainly
saying that that means it's with respect to my stock?
Because if he were getting it, for example, as an
employee for consideration, it wouldn't matter whether
there was sufficient earnings or not. But when he says
it depends on whether there's sufficient earnings, it
seems to me that that's clearly notifying you that he's
saying it's with respect to his stock.
MS. MAYNARD: This proffer also has factual
proffers in it, Your Honor, and none of the factual
proffers go to the fact that it was with respect to
stock. The Petitioner testified --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He said -- and it seems to
me that this is enough to put you on notice -- "Boulware
will present further evidence that all of the alleged
unreported income was either a loan or advance or was
used by Boulware for corporate purposes or for the
benefit of HIE."
MS. MAYNARD: He --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, "for corporate
purposes" would include either a return of capital or a
dividend, payment out to shareholders.
MS. MAYNARD: No, Your Honor. No, Your
Honor, it wouldn't. For corporate purposes -- and he
testified here, and he testified as to those three
things. He testified that he thought the moneys were
always corporate moneys. In other words, that he'd been
given them to use them to buy coffee and do other things
that were for the corporation. He testified that,
alternatively, he thought they were loans to him and
that he was going to pay them. And alternatively he
thought that they were corporate advances to him. The
jury was instructed on all those things and rejected
them in convicting him.
But he did not testify that he thought he
was being paid a dividend. He did not testify that he
thought he was being paid a return of capital. And the
reason he proffered an expert is because he doesn't
believe there is this first element of the defense, at
bottom, that the Government believes that there is, and
that in 301(a) the threshold requirement, with respect
to stock -- and if you trace back the civil cases, and
the basis in the D'Agostino rule is based on civil cases
interpreting the old code --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Tell me about the civil
case? There would be a tax deficiency, and wouldn't the
Government have to say what were the elements of the tax
deficiency?
You said in a criminal case they don't have
to characterize it at all. You just say he got -- he
has money on which tax hasn't been paid, and there was a
likely source of income. But now you're in a deficiency
mode, and the Government asserts a deficiency. Doesn't
it have to say what the elements of the deficiency are?
And what would it say in this case?
MS. MAYNARD: Well, in this case the
Government's position at bottom is that he stole these
funds, but that -- but in the criminal case it didn't
need to characterize it.
I think -- and if I can take a common
criminal -- a common civil situation, Your Honor, where
a corporation comes in and tries to deduct a salary that
it pays to a controlling shareholder and/or to, say, the
spouse of the controlling shareholder who is also a
shareholder, and the services that that person has
provided, the corporation has called it a salary and
deducted it as necessary business expenses, and the
Service comes in and says that's -- we're going to
disallow that deduction and then that's litigated in Tax
Court.
In that situation, the Government does often
argue that that -- the excess -- you know, say this
person at home is providing $10,000 in bookkeeping
services to the corporation, when in fact a net value, a
net worth, fair market value of $10,000 of services, but
being paid $500,000, and the corporation is deducting it
as a necessary business expense of $500,000. The issue
in that case will turn on whether or not there was an
intent to compense for services, whether or not the
services are reasonable, and the Government may well
come in and say --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, let's take this
case. Let's take this case and not some hypothetical,
and where -- on the civil side -- the Government is
asserting a deficiency. Just change one thing. The
corporation is rich with earnings and profits. What
would the notice of deficiency say?
MS. MAYNARD: You know, I -- to be honest
with you, Your Honor, I don't know, but the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wouldn't the Government
want to take the position that this is a dividend and
not something else, if that were the case?
MS. MAYNARD: The Government --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If there were earnings
and profits.
MS. MAYNARD: The Government might want to
take that position, Your Honor. On the facts of this
case, the Government's position is that he stole these
funds. But in a hypothetical situation like this case,
if the Government wanted to take a position, it is our
view here and certainly if you adopt the rule that we're
arguing for, that 301(a) -- that there must be -- the
facts and circumstances must suggest that the moneys
were taken out with respect to the stock because of the
person's status as a shareholder.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Ms. Maynard, may I just go
back to your hypothetical for a second? In the closely
held corporation situation you describe where they pay a
huge salary to the wife of the president and they decide
you can't deduct that, that's really a dividend --
that's what the Government normally does in that
situation. And don't they decide it's a dividend
irrespective of the intent of the company making the
distribution?
MS. MAYNARD: Well, in that situation --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So there's no attempt on
the part of them to satisfy with "respect to stock"
requirement?
MS. MAYNARD: Well, the express intent, Your
Honor, is belied by all the facts and circumstances. I
mean, just to be clear, the Government is arguing for an
objective test here -- JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but the
only fact and circumstance in your hypothetical is they
paid them a million dollars when they only earned
$100,000?
MS. MAYNARD: Right.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And it's clearly with
respect to stock --
MS. MAYNARD: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- regardless of intent?
MS. MAYNARD: No, Your Honor. All the facts
and circumstances would show that the expressed intent
was not the actual intent and that the -- what's really
going on -- and that's what you're asking in all these
cases, what's really going on? In what way did this
person get the payment, and why did they get the
payment? Why did the corporation make a payment to this
person?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Surely he is entitled to
try to prove that. And I'm still hung up on your
assertion that he made no proffer on it below.
Here's another portion of the joint
appendix. The expert, his expert, he says, will further
explain that if Boulware used -- this is on page 97,
bottom of 97: "If Boulware used the moneys for
corporate purposes, the moneys were not income to
Boulware. Alternatively, the expert will explain that
if the moneys were not loans or advances or if Boulware
did not use the moneys for corporate purposes, then as
the controlling shareholder, the moneys could be deemed
a constructive dividend or a return of capital to
Boulware, which may or may not be income depending on
whether or not HIE had earnings."
That seems to me presenting the claim that
he asserts he should have been given an opportunity to
present.
MS. MAYNARD: That's the language on which I
rely to show that he's proffered nothing in basis in
facts, Your Honor. In order to present a defense to the
jury --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is a criminal
case. He's presented the argument, but don't you have
the burden of showing as an element of tax deficiency
that what he's proffering there is not true?
MS. MAYNARD: The Government doesn't -- it's
clear under Holland -- have to refute every hypothetical
nontaxable source. The defendant in the Second
Circuit's Leonard decision and in Bok makes this
clear -- there must be some basis on fact. And this is
just an expert proffer. He already knows that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me get something
clear. They wish to introduce evidence. They wish to
introduce evidence. And you say, oh, well, the proffer
is no good because there is no basis, so there was no
evidence. I don't understand that.
MS. MAYNARD: They wish to introduce expert
evidence that it could be deemed, as a legal matter --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, I see.
MS. MAYNARD: They don't have --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you say there was no
other evidence in the record that the expert could use
for that testimony?
MS. MAYNARD: Exactly, Your Honor. In fact,
the Ninth Circuit decision, on Pet. App. 6, makes that
clear. Boulware presented no concrete proof that the
amounts were considered, intended. Or recorded on the
corporate records as a return on capital.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's not right.
He says right here that it may or may not be income
depending on a fact, not an expert's opinion, whether or
not HIE had earnings and profits for the years when the
moneys were obtained by Boulware. That's a question of
fact. You look at the corporate books. You get the
accountant on to testify. It's not an expert's view on
what's legally relevant.
MS. MAYNARD: But that fact goes to the
second element. And what we're disputing is sufficiency
on the first element, which is that it must have been a
corporate distribution with respect to the
corporation's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not totally
relevant if the question he is trying to submit, whether
they are earnings or profits or not, which will affect
its treatment. It's only relevant if it's with respect
to stock.
MS. MAYNARD: Right, Your Honor. And he
presented absolutely no factual basis --
JUSTICE BREYER: But we don't -- we are not
certain on that one, I think, because of the cases he
said before would this be a possible holding. If it was
a distribution in respect to the stock, and if he had
sufficient basis, then if there were no earnings and
profits in the corporation during the year, it would be
treated as a tax deficiency -- no tax deficiency or it
would be a return of capital. Insofar as as the Ninth
Circuit says something to the contrary, it is wrong.
Now, if we remand to decide whether the --
whether he intended to prove and produced enough to show
they didn't have the earnings and profits and also to
consider the question of whether this was a distribution
in respect to stock.
MS. MAYNARD: If you were -- if you are
going to remand, Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: Does the Government have
any objection to what I just said?
MS. MAYNARD: Well, if you're going to
remand, Your Honor, all three elements should be opened.
The Government's view is that he knew that he needed --
that the Ninth Circuit's rule required him to proffer on
the first element, that, in other words, that it was
intended to be a constructive corporate distribution by
somebody, that is any evidence -- this is not a high
burden. He could have testified he thought it was a
constructive distribution intent. Either he could have
testified it was a dividend, or he could have testified
he thought it was a return of capital.
Mr. Monago also testified, Your Honor, that
it was not -- there were no dividends during the
relevant period. So there is testimony in the
Government's case that there were no dividends in the
relevant period and no returns of capital during the
relevant period. And he proffered no basis in fact to
believe that what happened here nor did any of the facts
that suggest what happened here, unlike in our excessive
salary case, Your Honor, where the government books it
as a deductible business expense, and one can infer from
the fact that it's such an unreasonable salary that it
must have been earnings and profits. Here the facts of
record are that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, please --
MS. MAYNARD: There is no way to infer from
the way in which he diverted these funds that these
funds were with respect to stocks.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Maynard.
Mr. Cline, you have four -- ten minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN D. CLINE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CLINE: Your Honor, I just want to make
a few quick points.
The phrase "with respect to stock" was never
discussed in the district court at all. It was never
discussed before the court of appeals panel at all. It
was never the basis in the lower courts for the
Government's position that Mr. Boulware could not assert
a return of capital defense.
The Government's sole argument, from the
time it moved to exclude Mr. Boulware's testimony on
this issue and his evidence on this issue to the time
that it sought to prevent him from getting a jury
instruction on this issue, the Government's only
argument was Miller, and in particular the Miller
requirement that there be an intent, a contemporaneous
intent that the distribution be a return of capital.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even so, no harm no foul,
if, in fact, you hadn't proffered any evidence that
would enable you to meet the -- in respect to stock
requirement. Now, what do you say to the contention
that you hadn't proffered anything?
MR. CLINE: I say several things, Justice
Scalia. First of all, I think there was an adequate
proffer at page 97 of the joint appendix.
Second, at pages 62 through 66 of the joint
appendix, Mr. Boulware specifically invokes Truesdell
and the -- and the D'Agostino no earnings, no profits --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, at 97, are you
saying that the expert would have brought with him
financial records to show earnings and profits and
basis? Because I interpret the Government as saying
there was nothing for him to testify to because there
was no other -- the basic value was not in the record.
MR. CLINE: Justice Kennedy, there actually
is a fair amount of basis data in the record. And I can
quickly refer the Court to the portions of the joint
appendix. There is testimony, for example, that
Mr. Boulware contributed a water company value of
roughly $1.7 million dollars to HIE. That's at joint
appendix 70 through 73, 116 through 23, 147 through 51.
There's evidence that he contributed a
coffee processing and wholesaling business valued at
roughly $1.8 million. That's at joint appendix 123
through 27, 151 through 53.
There was evidence that he spent money on
coffee beans for --
JUSTICE BREYER: But those are different.
Those are whether that's a corporate purpose. I think
the question here is, as I started, I thought that this
expert was going to testify that there were no earnings
and profits in the relevant year. Having read it more
closely, it seems to me that that is not what the expert
is going to testify. Rather, he's going to say if there
were no earnings and profits, then it is a return of
capital if the basis is high enough. He's going to
testify to that legal proposition.
So, my question is, is there any proffer of
evidence here where the taxpayer says I want a chance to
show there were no earnings or profits?
MR. CLINE: Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: Where is it?
MR. CLINE: That's how I read the portion of
the joint appendix at pages 62 through 66 that I
referred to where Mr. Boulware invokes that rule.
Now, the problem here was that at no
point -- from the very beginning, the Government brought
this issue to fore by filing a motion in limine. And
the sole focus of the Government's motion in limine was
the Miller contemporaneous intent rule, and that was the
sole focus of the discussion. That's all anyone talked
about in the district court.
And so, Justice Breyer, the proffer is not
as wholesome as I might hope, but it's clear that
Mr. Boulware sought the opportunity to present earnings
and profits and basic information through expert
testimony.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you recognize that he
would have the burden? If he said this corporation had
no earnings and profits so what I got was a return of
capital, it would be his burden to show that?
MR. CLINE: I think, Justice Ginsburg, that
under the rule in Bok and under the rule that the
parties proceeded under in the district court in this
case, whether or not it's the correct rule, Mr. Boulware
had the burden of producing some evidence, some evidence
of the earnings and profits and the basis issues. Then
the burden of persuasion --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Coming forward, he had
the burden of coming forward?
MR. CLINE: Just the burden of coming
forward with some evidence, even if it's weak evidence
or not credible evidence, just to put the issue in play.
Then the burden of persuasion beyond a reasonable doubt
rests with the Government.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is that
evidence? If he has the burden of coming forward with
it, I assume that means in the proffer. And where is
it?
MR. CLINE: The evidence, Your Honor, is in
the record where I have previously identified.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Breyer's
point is that that isn't directed to that issue. It's
directed to the issue of whether he was using the funds
for a corporate purpose.
MR. CLINE: Actually, Your Honor, it was --
it was -- the evidence that came into the record came
into the record more or less by happenstance because the
district court had prohibited any evidence of return of
capital.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that evidence
came in after the proffer, didn't it?
MR. CLINE: No. It came in throughout the
trial.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, this is a
motion in limine which is before the trial.
MR. CLINE: No. The motion was actually
filed June 30th, which is, I think, the third day of
trial. The issue was litigated continuously throughout
the trial up until, I think, July 11th, which was a day
or two before it ended. This issue came up repeatedly
throughout the trial.
JUSTICE BREYER: So what did happen there?
I've been looking at page 62 through 66. They are
dancing around the issue. It's fair to say that they
wouldn't be having these four pages unless they are
thinking of return of capital as a defense, but they
don't actually say it.
MR. CLINE: Justice Breyer, had the issue
not been limited to the Miller --
JUSTICE BREYER: They would have raised it.
MR. CLINE: I believe that Mr. Boulware
would have presented expert testimony that would, in
fact, have at least put into play the issue of earnings
and profits and basis.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well am I -- am I right
that all he would have to do in order to satisfy that
burden would be this: He would have the option, which I
gather he availed himself of, to show that, in fact, the
-- the funds were loans or non-income to him.
And he would also have had the option to
follow that by putting on the corporate accountant
saying: This guy is a stockholder. It's what the
corporate books show. In fact, that's not in dispute.
No. 2, the corporation didn't have any
profits that year. No. 3, if the money was diverted, if
the money was corporate funds, the only thing left under
301 is to treat it as a return of capital. And if, in
fact, the funds exceeded his basis, to treat it as a
capital gain.
So all he had to do, in effect, to make the
proffer, as I understand it, is to say: If you don't
believe me that this was non-income like a loan, then
all I have to do is to put in the evidence that the
corporation didn't have any -- any profits that year,
and Section 301 will take care of the rest of it.
Because you have to conclude that it's either a return
of capital or a capital gain.
Is that fair? Is that correct?
MR. CLINE: I think that's basically right,
Justice Souter, and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait. Doesn't he
have to show, still show, that it's with respect to
stock?
MR. CLINE: Yes, but --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That one little element:
That he has to show the distribution was not because
this was his girlfriend, but it was with respect to
stock, and the record is -- is that the intent?
JUSTICE SOUTER: But doesn't -- doesn't he
suffice, on a going forward burden, simply to show that
he is a stockholder?
MR. CLINE: I think so, Justice Souter, and
I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I mean I agree with Justice
Scalia, but doesn't he make it at least to the point of
putting the Government to its proof by showing that he
is a stockholder?
MR. CLINE: That he is a stockholder, and
that he did not receive this money in any nonstockholder
capacity.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes.
MR. CLINE: For example, for income or
something like that. And I think the record is probably
adequate as it stands. Now, he was clearly a
stockholder. He would not have received this money had
he not been a stockholder.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's kind of
hard to say it's with respect to stock when the other
stockholder doesn't get any.
MR. CLINE: Chief Justice Roberts, the
cases, again, are uniform -- and we cite them, I think,
at footnote 8 of our reply brief -- that you can have a
constructive distribution even if there are no corporate
formalities, even if it's a disproportionate
distribution, even if other stockholders don't share it.
And, again, that's a position that the Government
argues.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What page in your
brief did you say?
MR. CLINE: I believe it is -- the cases are
cited, I believe, at footnote 8 of our reply brief. Let
me just make sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of your reply brief?
MR. CLINE: It's footnote 3 -- I'm sorry.
It's footnote 3 on page 8, and there is a whole series
of cases. And, again, as far as I know, Mr. Chief
Justice, there is no law to the contrary, and this is a
position that the Government, itself, argues.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The issue is whether the
Government wants to convict more -- more malfeasors or
whether it wants to collect more money, and the latter
obviously prevails in the cases, right?
MR. CLINE: But, Justice Scalia, it seems to
prevail only in this case, and I would be astonished if
counsel argues that the Government views Mr. Boulware as
having stolen this money from the corporation. I would
be astonished if the Government would accept a theft
deduction, if HIE argued for it, when the Government
seeks to collect these -- the corporate income from HIE.
Unless the court has further questions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:52 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
59:6 45:19 asserts 41:25 53:18 55:16 52:21 53:6,16
24:25 51:17 Assistant 1:16 beg 10:18 12:1,2 15:24
amounts 47:8 assume 3:22 began 14:18 50:16
App 47:6 31:24 39:2 2:4,6,9 3:7 5:3 26:5,10 29:25
50:11 astonished believe 4:16 48:21 52:4,17
47:16 1:13 astounded 17:11 11:14,25 29:9 55:4,10,12
appendix 11:16 attempt 44:13 31:7 32:11,15 Breyer's 27:3
9:6,14 51:25 52:20 avoid 8:6,7 56:9 58:7,8 57:24 58:6,8
apply 3:13 13:3 59:5 believes 21:17 brought 51:11
17:4,7 18:20 back 12:18 benefit 40:15 14:11 36:15,20
57:16 argues 16:6 58:4 balance 11:7,12 53:14 53:25 54:3
45:20 23:21 43:24 based 41:15 25:14 36:9 51:24
argument 1:11 51:15 53:7 49:17 55:25
3:3,6 basically 31:12 bottom 30:13 C
28:11 14:20 20:20 basis 10:13,24 45:17 Cal 1:14
57:6 26:21 33:15,17 11:3,9,11,16 Boulware 1:3 calculation
asked 17:15 37:7 39:19 20:2 37:21,25 16:10 57:12
12:18 45:7 48:6 23:25 44:20 14:23 16:9 constitute 9:8
17:17,20 57:23 58:7,13 circumstances 39:15 41:16 24:3
19:2 58:19 6:14 21:22 coffee 40:25 constructive
causal 16:12,12 22:8,9 24:6 51:24 52:3 15:12 18:11
21:15,19 cause 12:23 25:19 38:21 collect 58:18 24:4 31:9
24:5,5,9 certain 10:23 43:25 44:17 59:1 32:18 33:11
48:6 45:4 come 3:16 4:14 37:23,24 45:23
25:5,15 certainly 5:5 cite 57:23 17:5 43:3 49:3,6 57:25
6:12 13:9 20:7 cited 58:8 comes 7:10 8:1,4 contemporane...
27:6,25 43:23 civil 28:10 38:18 10:14 22:21 50:21 53:1
cetera 4:6 41:14,15,17 42:9,15 contends 11:4
30:16 chance 16:18 42:8 43:6 coming 7:16 contention 51:2
36:24 20:11 21:11 civilly 8:25 9:11,13 10:11 continuously
32:13,14 52:15 claim 8:2 46:1 36:7 53:20,21 54:25
change 43:7 claims 8:7 53:22 54:3 contrary 17:12
39:5,10 characterize clarify 16:24 committing 8:17 48:13 58:14
41:9 34:11 41:22 classified 38:11 common 8:3 contributed
47:9 42:6 38:13 39:9 42:7,8 51:20,23
49:8,13 characterized clear 3:12 29:12 company 5:3 control 7:22
52:12 30:25 29:18 33:9 11:2 30:2 controlling 4:25
54:16 Chief 3:3,8 34:13 39:15 44:10 51:20 6:19 7:17,23
56:4,6,14 16:22 17:3,8 44:18 46:13,16 company's 25:2 8:12 9:7,10
20:17,22 36:21 46:19 47:7 compensation 12:23 13:22
56:12 47:10,23 49:22 44:24 57:16 complicated 45:22
54:21 57:19,22 3:5,6,8 4:16,21 concept 17:19 27:10
7:15 13:2 58:5,10,13 5:16 6:4 7:9,13 concerned 14:3 convict 58:17
14:19 59:3 9:3,20 10:8,18 conclude 24:3 convicting 41:6
17:13 child 6:3 10:22 11:14,21 56:13 convincing 4:11
23:21 chooses 29:8 12:20 13:4,21 concrete 47:7 corporate 3:13
25:4 33:4 chose 5:22 14:17 15:6,17 condition 3:19 4:3,24 5:8,18
34:2,3 chunk 6:7 15:22 17:2,7 26:24 27:1,11 5:22 7:20,24
35:19 circuit 3:23 4:11 17:11 18:1,5 31:24,25 8:22 10:21
41:18,21 13:1 16:17 18:22 19:18 conditions 27:7 11:12 12:11
21:18 24:14 20:18 50:3,5,7 conducts 8:5 13:3,23 15:11
25:11,12 26:19 51:4,16 52:17 Congress 3:10 15:13 16:5
46:9 29:13,15 30:21 52:19 53:13,22 conscious 14:9 18:9 24:4,21
53:16 30:22 31:8 54:6,12,19,23 consequences 30:8 36:8
59:4,5 32:25 33:9 55:10,13 56:16 9:9 37:22 39:5,7
8:3 12:9 Circuit's 23:24 57:14,22 58:7 consideration 40:21,24 41:4
15:10 24:1 28:11 58:11,20 14:25 23:8 45:18,21 47:9
18:11 31:3 46:15 close 6:15 26:1 24:7 40:1 47:15,21 49:3
49:1 closely 44:4 52:9 considered 7:25 52:5 54:11
41:14,15 circumstance code 3:12 14:22 24:20 47:8 55:23,25 56:3
59:1 19:21,24 20:1 49:18 determinative 30:7 31:9,20
4:9 5:4,11 21:8,10,14 deduction 8:2,2 determining 33:11 36:16
24:1 29:6,8 8:9 42:16 10:3 38:22 39:20
32:20 33:1,2,6 58:25 difference 28:7 44:11 47:21
36:21 37:14 deemed 37:23 different 16:16 48:8,17 49:3,6
38:9,9 42:17 38:24,25 45:22 19:2 23:20 50:22 56:23
50:10,11 51:18 46:24 35:10 52:4 57:25 58:2
10:3,5,12 53:3,15 54:15 defend 17:18 direct 5:13 distributions
13:22 59:2 29:13,15 directed 54:9,10 24:4,11 32:18
21:4 courts 4:24 6:16 defendant 11:20 directing 5:10 39:16
22:12,18 9:16 50:12 19:13 21:1,6 directly 6:24 district 10:9
Court's 34:12 21:19 23:14,16 disagree 5:17 11:1 16:16
26:14 cover 16:4 21:7 24:9 26:8 14:10 18:25 37:13
30:9,25 29:22 34:18 36:18 disallow 42:16 38:9,9 50:10
32:2 creature 5:21 46:14 discovered 5:17 53:3,15 54:15
35:11,12 credible 53:24 defendant's discussed 50:10 diversion 5:18
credit 10:4 36:15 50:11 5:24 10:13
36:3 creditors 15:2 defending 17:17 discussion 12:10 16:25 17:6
criminal 27:21 23:12,13 53:2 divert 15:11
38:1 28:10 33:4,5 defends 17:16 disproportion... diverted 15:9
42:9,13 34:3,12 38:18 defense 4:13 12:17 58:1 24:3 29:23
43:8 41:21 42:5,8 20:25 21:20 dispute 55:25 36:8 38:14
45:9 46:8 24:9 29:19 disputed 11:1 49:24 56:2
53:10 criminally 9:1 37:6,7 41:11 disputing 47:19 dividend 7:8
58:23 cross-examina... 46:6 50:14 distinguish 15:13 17:21
16:2 customers 10:1 deficiency 34:4 16:10 25:6 27:4
36:9 D 41:24,25 42:1 15:5 32:3,10 33:23
D 1:14 2:3,8 3:1 43:7,9 46:10 distribute 21:14 34:8 37:3,9,24
21:17 dancing 55:6 demonstration 25:21 39:4,9 40:19
53:16 data 51:17 24:10 distributes 30:2 41:8 43:13
day 54:24 55:1 Department distribution 44:7,9 45:23
2:5 20:20 depending 26:4 4:22 6:21 8:23 dividends 24:5
44:6,9 48:14 depends 24:6,13 13:25 14:2,4,5 49:10,12
19:9 decision 23:12 40:3 16:7 18:14,17 30:5 44:21
10:9 11:1 46:15 47:6 despite 36:23 22:3,10,15,17 dominant 6:19
14:8 deduct 42:9 44:7 determination 24:24,25 25:14 7:4
17:16 deducted 42:14 27:8 31:13 25:19 26:15 dominates 5:3
19:10,19 deductible 32:21 28:3,6,14,16 6:9,16
elements 21:2 11:25 15:9 49:14,19 50:25 53:20,21,23
42:1 48:24 29:25 30:1 56:5 foul 50:24
41:15 8:17 exceeded 10:13 38:21 39:17,18 55:7
embezzlement 56:5 43:19,25 44:17 Francisco 1:14
20:20 40:1 excluded 39:3 48:4 23:7,8 24:3,16
employees 15:1 excuse 8:20 failure 27:22 24:17 25:9
10:4,6,12 entirely 12:20 expense 42:24 false 34:15,15 49:24,25 54:10
11:3,17 entitled 8:9 49:18 family 15:11 55:21 56:3,5
12:3,13 45:11 expenses 42:14 far 14:20 58:13 further 20:15
19:6 21:5 ESQ 1:14,16 2:3 expert 37:11,20 Federal 13:15 40:12 45:15
26:1 2:5,8 38:4 41:10 13:19 14:1,1,2 59:2
36:17 essentially 8:14 45:15,15,19 filed 54:24
38:2 establish 14:12 46:17,23 47:3 filing 52:24 G
40:2,3 16:13 21:13 51:11 52:7,9 financial 51:12 G 3:1
45:25 established 53:7 55:14 fine 25:10 gain 24:5 28:24
48:9 13:13 expert's 47:12 first 7:15 16:15 56:6,14
49:20 et 4:6 47:16 18:24 21:3,9 gather 55:20
52:7 evasion 32:22 explain 34:1 22:14 27:11 General 1:17
53:6 34:5,14 37:20 45:16,19 33:7,13 41:11 genesis 24:1
55:15 everybody explains 9:17 47:20 49:2 getting 20:9
31:13 evidence 4:2,4,5 express 44:16 focus 52:25 53:2 Ginsburg 7:2,9
4:7,14 6:6 expressed 45:4 follow 55:23 7:12 9:21
32:2,3 36:22 39:11 F 58:8,11,12 32:19 33:1,4,6
39:4,9 40:12 46:19,20 fabulous 25:22 fore 52:24 41:17 43:4,12
49:6 46:22,24 47:3 fact 4:2 5:19,19 form 5:22 16:20 43:16 53:9,13
49:4 50:17,25 8:3,24 11:5 formalities 18:9 53:20
34:14 53:17,17,23,23 27:2,9 35:13 formality 5:8 6:3,5 7:6 10:2
46:10 53:24 54:3,6 35:19 37:7 formed 5:21 6:1 10:20 14:14
49:2 54:13,15,17 38:16,21 39:2 forth 28:13 15:4 56:24
56:10 40:8 42:21 fortune 30:10 girlfriends 15:3
32:14 33:22,24 34:2 17:2 21:12,18 47:11 57:14 interpret 51:13
46:2 42:4 43:20 22:6 23:6,25 59:1 interpreted
35:18 grounded 33:14 33:3,25 34:10 13:18 interrupt 3:18
40:8 guess 5:7 8:24 35:2,24 36:6 indication 4:7 introduce 39:11
guy 32:4 55:24 36:20 37:6 12:14 46:19,20,23
6:13 8:6 H 42:8 43:11,19 infer 49:18,23 investigation
15:8 H 1:3 44:17 45:3 inferred 21:21 8:5
28:8 half 23:3 46:6 47:5 48:3 informality 5:7 invokes 51:8
30:10 happen 55:4 48:20,24 49:9 informally 6:15 52:21
41:3 happened 49:15 49:17 50:7 information involved 4:3
45:6,7 49:16 54:6,12 53:7 9:25 24:6
52:7 happens 30:22 hope 53:5 Insofar 48:12 involving 5:18
happenstance hotly 11:1 instances 36:10 irrespective
11:22 54:14 huge 44:6 instructed 10:9 44:10
7:3,6,10 Hawaiian 12:16 43:5,21 44:4 intend 29:5 23:20 33:18
8:11 9:18 12:21 44:20 46:13 intended 21:21 36:23 42:24
12:8 hear 3:3 23:16 24:11,20 50:17,17,19
15:15 held 14:8 44:5 I 25:17 26:15,24 52:24 53:24
16:4,11 help 30:1 idea 22:16 27:23 28:6,22 54:9,10,25
helpful 18:10 identified 54:7 32:17 47:8 55:2,6,10,15
19:11,13 HIE 38:1 40:15 imagination 48:15 49:3 58:16
21:16,18 45:25 47:13 5:14 intent 3:24 4:12 issues 11:18
51:21 58:25 imagine 30:2,4,8 14:9 16:20,21 53:18
27:13 59:1 implicit 4:23 17:17 18:13,16
33:14 high 25:6 49:4 important 4:22 19:1,2,4,15,22 J
34:11,16 52:12 6:5 28:5 20:2 21:14 JA 37:16
41:12,19 hint 32:23 impossible 26:18 27:8,12 January 1:9
42:18 history 39:15 17:19 28:1,20 31:17 JOHN 1:14 2:3
hit 16:5 36:8,9 include 10:17,20 32:1 33:10 2:8 3:6 50:5
44:8 hits 7:24 24:5 40:18 38:15 43:1 joint 11:15 12:2
46:12 holding 48:7 income 7:18,25 44:10,16 45:2 45:14 51:6,7
49:17 Holland 34:13 9:15 27:13,19 45:4,5 49:6 51:18,21,25
52:23 46:13 34:15,20,22,24 50:21,22 53:1 52:20
57:8 58:3 home 42:20 35:1,5,7,7,9,14 56:25 July 55:1
honest 43:10 35:14,15,20,20 intercepted 7:17 June 18:14 30:3
Honor 4:16 6:22 35:23 36:1,3,4 interception 30:9 54:24
6:6 16:1 12:6 13:4,21 37:25 40:13 intercepts 9:11 21:20 34:10
41:5 46:7 58:10,14,16,20 light 8:4 Maynard 1:16 Miller 23:25
59:3 limine 52:24,25 2:5 20:19,20 31:7 50:20,20
4:18 5:5 K limited 55:11 22:5 23:3,18 million 11:10
7:2 keep 5:9 6:5 limiting 3:19 23:23 25:8,16 44:21 51:21,25
8:16 9:3 Kennedy 11:6 link 16:13 25:23 26:3,8 mind 6:5
10:16 11:19 12:7,25 litigated 42:16 26:12 27:15,18 minority 12:21
11:6,19 13:16 18:12,23 54:25 28:2,9,17,21 13:6,8
13:16 19:12 36:12 little 25:25 29:1,8,17 minutes 50:3
15:3,15 46:18,25 47:2 56:22 30:17,19,23 misdirection 4:6
16:22 51:10,16 live 27:25 31:2,6,18,22 mistake 25:25
kind 3:17 5:12 loan 7:1 15:5 32:6,9,15,25 misunderstood
57:19 23:1 40:13 33:3,5,8,24 28:18
20:17,22 knew 20:9 48:25 56:9 34:9,25 35:6 mode 41:25
know 4:5 11:6 loans 37:21 41:2 35:13,23 36:2 moment 31:1
23:10,19 14:20 17:19,20 45:20 55:21 36:5,19 37:4 Monago 18:1,5
25:10,20 17:21 18:19 long 27:22 37:15,19 38:17 49:9
26:5,10 19:5,6,6,8 25:8 look 25:13 30:22 39:12 40:6,16 Monango 17:25
27:2,17 25:11 31:14 30:24 36:23 40:20 42:3 money 6:7,11,20
28:4,15 42:19 43:10,11 47:15 43:10,15,18 7:5,16,23 8:10
29:3 58:13 looking 11:23 44:3,12,16,23 8:21 9:11,14
knowledgeable 55:5 45:1,3 46:4,12 15:7 20:8
6:12 looks 31:7 46:23 47:1,5 22:19 27:23
knows 46:17 loss 25:3 47:18 48:3,19 33:22 34:2
32:8,13 lot 5:24 7:15 48:23 49:23 36:10 41:23
33:1,4,6 L lousy 5:9 50:2 52:2 56:2,3
34:6,23 label 35:7 love 6:3 mean 15:3,7 57:11,17 58:18
lacked 21:4 lower 50:12 19:12 24:14 58:23
laid 29:20 31:11 35:1 moneys 5:13
38:6 language 39:13 M 38:8 44:18 33:11 37:20,21
39:1,21 46:4 maintaining 57:6 37:23 38:2
41:17 large 6:6 12:8 meaning 8:22 40:23,24 43:25
Laughter 4:20 majority 13:7 16:12 45:17,18,20,21
law 12:16,21,24 making 8:24 means 22:25 45:22 47:14
46:8 13:3,9,19,19 9:18 26:15 39:24 54:4 month 30:24
47:2 14:1,1,2 30:15 39:6,8,22 meet 16:17 motion 52:24,25
48:5 58:14 44:10 17:15 18:25 54:22,23
49:22 lawyer 12:2 malfeasors 19:9,10,21,23 motions 22:14
left 4:13 56:3 58:17 20:3,4,5,11 move 6:24
legal 46:24 man 19:8 31:25 32:12 moved 50:16
52:13 manifested 38:20 51:1
legally 47:17 25:18 members 15:12 N
legislative 39:14 market 30:13 merely 24:15 N 2:1,1 3:1
Leonard 10:15 42:22 met 31:24 37:1 name 17:25
46:15 matter 1:10 6:18 metaphysics nature 30:7
let's 3:22 43:4,5 40:1 46:24 31:17 necessarily 9:1
58:5 level 7:21,21 59:6 MICHAEL 1:3 16:19
42:14 objectively pages 51:7 52:20 phrase 3:10,20 presented 46:9
21:21 25:18 55:7 14:5,18,22 47:7 48:4
42:6 observation 28:22 33:11 place 15:20 presenting 46:1
obtained 38:3 42:23 44:21 plainly 39:23 44:6
50:9,10 offered 38:23 part 9:24 17:18 49:22 prevent 50:18
oftentimes 13:7 32:1 44:14 pocket 22:22 previously 54:7
23:24 okay 26:6 28:17 18:10 10:14 13:17 pro 22:18
25:11 30:18 32:8 parties 53:15 16:23 17:14 probably 57:15
26:19 33:6 parts 23:5 21:1 26:13 problem 26:7
29:13,15 old 41:16 party 11:22 36:25 39:6 30:6,6 52:22
31:2 once 30:20 pattern 5:19,19 52:23 54:9 proceeded 53:15
32:25 36:13 8:3 57:7 proceeds 34:8
47:6 one's 5:10 pause 6:23 points 50:8 processing
49:1 open 17:4 pay 8:10 15:24 portion 37:16 51:24
opinion 47:12 41:3 44:5 portions 51:18 producing 53:17
20:4 46:2 53:6 40:19 45:8,9,9 7:11,14 8:12 proffer 20:25
option 55:19,22 18:6 17:12,13 22:2 37:11,16 38:23
20:20 percent 5:1 6:1 38:18 42:4 40:6 45:13
56:9 31:25 34:4,13 period 49:11,13 50:13 58:3,15 51:6 52:14
ought 16:18 45:8,10 practice 5:8 46:5 49:14
45:16 51:6 23:5 29:10 presentation 22:12 26:1
30:14 qualify 8:25 23:7,9 39:17 remainder 1:18 2:6 20:21
36:17 question 3:15,17 57:11 20:16 response 36:12
38:2 3:22 4:22,23 received 6:6 remaining 50:4 rest 56:12
47:13 5:6 6:22,24 7:4 14:19 16:14 remains 8:20 rests 54:1
48:10,16 7:18 8:19 11:5 21:7 34:18 remand 17:4 retains 36:19
51:9,12 11:23 12:4 36:14 57:17 23:21 48:14,20 return 3:24 9:24
15:14 18:8 receives 3:14 48:24 14:9 17:17,20
21:8 22:6 receiving 15:5 reopened 33:18 18:3,19 19:1,4
56:2,11 28:18 33:21 32:10 repeatedly 55:2 19:5,16,22
52:6,14 15:7 58:10 23:17 24:5,9
47:7 59:2 record 11:7,13 require 16:20 24:22 25:5,15
quick 50:8 11:15 12:5 required 16:17 26:2,3,11,12
quid 22:18 51:15,17 54:7 19:21 21:14 27:24,24 28:6
quote 24:14 57:15 requirement 29:23 30:15
47:8 31:19 32:12 36:24 37:3,9
R 3:1 24:21 30:9 50:21 51:2 38:6,13,16,22
55:12 redemption requiring 3:24 40:18 41:9
45:12 raising 9:2 12:19 reserve 20:16 45:23 47:9
reached 5:9 refer 51:18 respect 3:10,19 48:12 49:8
14:22 reads 31:2 refute 46:13 14:19 16:7,21 returning 14:25
54:11 realize 38:7 regarded 5:14 16:25 17:5 returns 49:13
37:22 11:23 15:19,20 regardless 15:9 20:2 21:4,23 review 33:18
26:21 44:7 15:14 39:17,18 22:4,10,15,17 rich 22:12 25:22
45:5,7 45:2 22:24,25 23:1 43:8
30:8 17:18 30:14 39:14 27:15 28:14 19:18 25:10
40:11 41:10 rejected 41:5 29:2 31:21 26:10 29:6
55:15 reasonable 43:2 relates 21:8 32:22 34:15 31:7,22 32:6
53:25 relevance 5:8 39:13,20,24 35:4,17 37:18
55:23 reasons 17:5 21:5 37:16 44:1,14,25 44:23 47:10,11
REBUTTAL 38:10,10,12,15 47:21 48:1,8 48:3 55:17
50:5 47:17,24 48:1 48:18 49:25 56:16 58:19
receive 16:11 rely 46:5 Respondent rigidly 29:9 31:3
17:3 40:10,17 45:11 40:19 58:11 34:6,23 35:3
36:21 50:24 51:5 shareholder's sort 4:24 16:11 36:13 44:3,13
38:8 56:18,22 57:7 22:22 31:16 32:17 44:19,24 45:2
46:8 58:16,20 shares 12:19 33:20 stock 3:11,20
49:22 second 13:1 sheet 11:8,12 sorts 18:9 6:2 12:12,15
54:2,8,17 16:19 21:4 shift 37:2 sought 33:18 14:5,7,13,14
57:19,22 44:4 46:14 shifted 36:25 50:18 53:6 14:16,19 16:8
59:3 47:19 51:7 show 12:11 source 34:22 16:14,21,25
31:12 56:12 21:14 23:14,16 Souter 3:15 4:18 21:4,7,23 22:4
41:15 30:25 31:8,15 34:4 36:13,15 8:16 9:4,17 23:6,15 26:4
49:1 46:25 37:2,8 38:7 26:17 27:17 26:16 27:16
53:1,14 seeing 22:14 39:7,16 45:4 29:11 31:10,20 28:14 29:2,22
seeking 33:15 46:5 48:15 31:23 32:8 30:5 31:21
57:2 57:1,4,6,13 44:25 48:2,8
34:7 series 9:16 58:12 significance 35:18 39:16 stockholder
44:6 Service 42:15 3:19 14:20 51:8 20:9,10 32:5
services 42:12 32:21 spent 52:2 55:24 57:3,9
44:14 share 5:1 58:2 14:23 32:4 17:15,18 18:24 stocks 49:25
shareholder 39:1 57:2 19:1,10,19,20 stole 42:4 43:20
31:12 6:11,20 7:4,17 9:10 15:24 20:3,6,12,12 58:23
40:5 7:23 8:9,12 9:7 31:14 35:22 stands 57:16 stretch 5:14
55:24 9:11,24 12:21 42:8,18 43:21 start 9:6 structure 11:13
37:19 13:22 14:6,25 sketchy 11:16 State 12:24 13:9 stupid 33:21
42:15 15:1,1,1,13,23 skimming 4:6 13:19 submit 36:22
47:11 16:14 22:19,20 sloppy 5:10 statement 12:5 47:24
52:15 23:9 25:1 30:3 sole 50:15 52:25 34:15 submitted 59:4
15:3,15 42:10,11,12 solely 23:9 3:4 substantial
17:9 44:2 45:22 Solicitor 1:16 status 23:9 44:2 34:19
23:10 shareholders somebody 27:23 statute 14:4 sue 13:9
27:20 12:16,17 13:7 49:4 33:13 suffice 57:2
13:8 14:24 sooner 3:16 step 33:25 sufficiency
35:11 38:19 thing 19:2 43:7 tort 8:18 U
26:19 42:16 46:10 things 13:10 trace 41:14 ultimately 11:5
29:22 48:11,11 18:23 19:8 transfer 24:18 understand 4:4
40:2,3 taxable 15:8 34:17 40:23,25 31:1 6:1 8:23 29:12
34:22 35:1 41:5 51:4 transfers 13:24 29:17 34:7
49:16 taxation 3:12 9:6,16,20 treasury 10:21 understanding
22:11 29:21 36:22 23:4,23 25:2 27:4,5 29:23 unfairly 12:22
27:25 32:15 34:1 39:1 42:7 48:6 treatment 13:15 uniform 57:23
35:3 58:9 41:17 50:23 51:5 22:7 28:5,13 uniformly 6:17
29:16 23:24 24:1 thinks 24:23 54:25 55:1,3 8:21
42:7 25:11,12 26:11 third 21:6 29:25 tried 37:1 unreasonable
26:13,18,19 31:11 54:24 tries 42:9 49:19
56:12 29:9 31:3 thought 4:18 trillion 26:6 unreported
21:24 testified 18:2,5 22:16,24 23:1 true 46:11 unsophisticated
44:1 32:9 40:9,22 24:23 25:21 Truesdell 51:8 19:8
8:11 49:5,7,7,9 36:24 40:23 trustee 6:10 urged 20:13
testifies 38:23 41:2,4,7,9 49:5 try 18:20 29:25 use 36:11 37:21
52:13 threshold 3:17 Tuesday 1:9 11:9
47:4 49:11 41:13 turned 21:25 V
13:15 53:8 55:14 20:16 21:23 27:2 valuable 30:9
15:24 Thank 20:17 24:18,22 25:1 twice 7:20 value 42:21,22
17:22 50:1 59:3 25:9,13,17,21 two 12:15 18:23 51:15,20
22:7 25:4 theft 8:2,8 58:24 26:14 28:2,4,5 23:5 29:20 valued 51:24
theoretically 28:22 32:10 34:16,21 55:2 vendors 15:1
32:20,22 38:24,25 33:10 37:9 type 16:12 35:7 view 6:17 20:24
34:4,4 theory 33:22,23 38:14 50:16,17 types 18:11 39:12 43:23
33:24 34:2,6 times 7:15 36:20 typically 6:15 47:16 48:25
work 10:8 123 51:25 7
43:12 55:7 39:15 8
16:23 wrong 3:23 4:12 1998 33:16 57:24 58:8,12
25:13 4:15 13:14
35:3 2 9
19:25
43:13,18 2 27:8 56:1 97 37:17 45:16
24:24
52:15 20 2:6 45:17 51:6,10
26:11,20
48:13 23 51:22
16:5,5,6 X
58:17,18 x 1:2,7 3
Y 58:12
39:6,10 18:14,20 25:4 301 3:21 22:6
13:5 48:10 52:8 36:16 39:2,4,8
29:10 56:2,11 56:4,12
49:23,24 years 12:4 21:5 301(a) 3:11
$1.8 51:25 38:20
42:15 42:20,22 42 12:1
47:19 $100,000 44:22
6:8,9,10
51:22
1:5 3:4 545 24:2
10:52 1:12 3:2 62 51:7 52:20
