IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CSX TRANSPORTATION, INC., :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1287
GEORGIA STATE BOARD OF :
EQUALIZATION, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 5, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ., Assistant to the
Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington,
D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioner.
WARREN R. CALVERT, ESQ., Senior Assistant Attorney
General, Atlanta, Ga.; on behalf of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ.,
On behalf of the United States,
supporting the Petitioner 19
WARREN R. CALVERT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 56
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 06-1287, CSX Transportation
v. the Georgia State Board of Equalization.
Mr. Phillips.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. PHILLIPS:: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
Congress in what is now Section 11501(b)(1)
crafted what this Court described as a straightforward
approach to determining whether a State is unlawfully
taxing railroad property. Congress used a precise
formula that is set out in a pictorial form on page 6 of
the Petitioner's brief, and I think it's probably easier
to kind of follow along on that. What basically
Congress said is that the court in making a
determination as to whether there's an illegal tax
considers the assessed value of rail transportation
property as the numerator on the left side of the
fraction, compares that to the true market value of rail
transportation property, and then compares that ratio to
the ratio created by examining the assessed value of
other commercial and industrial property over the true
market value. Fortunately, in this particular case
three out of four of those variables are agreed to by
the parties, so the only issue in this case is what
constitutes the true market value of the rail
transportation property within the meaning of that
statute.
This Court in Burlington Northern first
evaluated the language of this statute and held, in what
I think the Court later would describe as a
straightforward fashion, that 10501(b)(1) declares that
the district court -- for the district court, that it is
necessary for that court to determine what the true
market values of the respective properties are.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it realistic to think
that you can calculate with any degree of precision what
the true market value of CSX's property is? The range
of values that were calculated by both of these experts
are really astonishing, from 12.3 billion to 8.1 billion
for Dickerson, from 9.3 to 5.9 for Tegarden. It's like
$3 or $4 billion doesn't mean anything. What is the --
can this be done with any precision or is it more
realistic just to say that what the district court would
have to do is to figure out whether the State's
calculation is within some reasonable range?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, I think it's pretty clear
that Congress did not adopt that particular formulation.
What Congress tasked the district court with doing was
determining the true market value. And if you look at
footnote 8 of the district court's opinion, I think he
does a fairly interesting job of explaining what that
would normally mean. He says: In an ordinary valuation
case I would take in all of the expert testimony from
the railroad, I would take in all of the expert
testimony of the State, I would evaluate them and I
would come up with a conclusion as to what I think is
the true market value.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And do you want the
district court to in addition determine which
methodology most accurately reflects that true market
value?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, I don't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You want to be able
to challenge the state's chosen methodology for
determining market value?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. I think every facet of
the question of, that goes into the determination of
what is a true market value.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if the, so if the
district court says this methodology, Methodology A,
most accurately yields true market value, that is giving
rise to a Federal rule of determining value, isn't it?
MR. PHILLIPS: No. I think all it says is
that in this particular case under these particular
circumstances that methodology led to what was the true
market value.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I don't see
how it varies based on the particular circumstances. If
he says I think, you know, whatever it is, discounted
value approach is the best way for determining market
value, he's not going to in the next case or the
district court isn't going to be able to say, I think
reproduction cost is the best method. You're going to
establish a Federal rule for what is the best way of
determining market value.
MR. PHILLIPS: Mr. Chief Justice, I think
that's not accurate. I think what will happen is that
the circumstances change every day. Let's just take a
pretty simple example. Let's assume that in year 1 the
district court decides to use discounted cash flow. In
year 2 it turns out that CSX or some other railroad
property is sold, so that you have an actual direct
sales comparison data available to you by which to make
the market value.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That happens, that
happens once every 25 years. If you prevail on a method
that you think is more favorable to railroads before a
particular district court, you're going to cite that
district court in the next case that you've got and you
say: Look a district court's already looked at this and
they said Method A is a better way of determining market
value.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. I'm sure that's true
that we'll cite it, but the reality is that the district
court in the second case is not bound by the decision of
the district court in the first case. And the truth is
every single one of these --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if a district
court says in one case Method A is the best way to get
market value and another district court says Method B
and they both appeal, the court of appeals is going to
have to resolve that conflict, isn't it?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, at the end of the day
the district court's going to make a valuation. It's
going to say that this is the true market value. That
determination is a question of fact and therefore, yes,
the court of appeals will evaluate that to determine
whether or not that fact is clearly erroneous.
JUSTICE ALITO: I think you said that CSX
has properties in 15 States that use the unit method of
calculation.
MR. PHILLIPS: I believe that's correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: So if you challenge all of
those there could be 15 different district court
findings on true market value, and so within each
circuit the court of appeals would have to decide which
district court was correct as a matter of fact?
MR. PHILLIPS: Sure, Justice Alito, that's
exactly what could happen. But the reality is is that
that's exactly what's been going on since the statute
was enacted in 1976. 48 of the 50 States have railroads
that have to be evaluated and, as the AAR's amicus brief
points out, there have been 12 cases on this particular
issue. It is not as though it is cost-free for the
railroads to challenge what the States are doing under
these circumstances. There is no cost shifting or fee
shifting arrangement. And second, you're suing the very
person who's going to be making the decision next year
as to the value of your property.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it's
already been pointed out if the range is a variable of
$4 billion I think it probably is worth their while to
challenge what they think is a low valuation.
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. Well, blissfully, more
often than not it turns out that the overvaluation are
not nearly that stark. But I think that goes to the
core point here, which is that if this Court concludes
like the Eleventh Circuit did, which is that there is no
basis for challenging the methodology, then it would
have been completely within the province of the State of
Georgia to say, we're going to adopt a stock and debt
method, which virtually everybody recognizes is not an
accurate way to determine true market value, that that
number would have been $12.2 billion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if we were to
adopt a different approach which said that you can
challenge the methodology, methodology, when different
methodologies are used, but if the State is using the
same methodology that's their choice? It seems to me
the only other alternative is to have the Federal
judiciary develop a Federal rule about what methodology
has to be used.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I don't think there's
ever a reason why the Federal court has to adopt a
single methodology and I don't think that's what
Congress intended. I think what Congress intended is
what happens in every run of the mine valuation case
that comes up in either State or Federal court, which is
that each side presents its best guess as to what the
true market value is and the district court resolves
those differences and comes out with a number that the
district court believes constitutes the true market
value.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose there are a lot
of valuation cases under the Takings Clause, aren't
there?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, Justice Scalia, there
are.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there a standard Federal
rule for how you evaluate --
MR. PHILLIPS: If you read footnote 8 of the
district court's opinion, the district judge says, if
this were a typical valuation case what I would have
done is I would have listened to the railroad, I would
have listened to the State and I would have made a
judgment as to what I think is the right --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Isn't that how it
works in utility rate regulation? Isn't there in fact a
standard Federal method of determining what rates affect
the taking of property --
MR. PHILLIPS: But that's because there's
usually --which rates affect the taking of property?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, if it's
challenged --
MR. PHILLIPS: Or what the rates ought to
be?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The rate of return
in a public utility.
MR. PHILLIPS: But that's because that's
regulated by a Federal agency that formulates a very
precise approach typically. But there's nothing like
that -- and that approach governs every utility subject
to the jurisdiction of FERC.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I was going to ask this
question. Is it -- would it be permitted for a State to
say that, with respect to utilities and certain
industries, including railroads, we use valuation Method
A, with respect to commercial rental real estate
property we use valuation Method B? Is that permitted?
MR. PHILLIPS: It's permitted for them to
use different methodologies because typically they do.
The reality is they almost never use the same
methodology for determining railroad property as they do
for other commercial and industrial property because the
data that are available for the two are never the same.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So is a large part of the
argument you would make that other utilities are
comparable or not comparable to a railroad?
MR. PHILLIPS: You would make that argument,
but you'd also make an argument as to sort of what data
are available in any particular case to allow a
particular methodology to be used.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose an accounting
journal or some prestigious group of accountants and tax
appraisers came up with a new theory for evaluating
railroad property and it was conceded by all to be
highly accurate. Could they use just that for the
railroad and different methodologies for all other
utilities all over the country?
MR. PHILLIPS: At the end of the day the
test here is purely a results-driven test. It doesn't
tell the State what methodologies to use on either side
of the equation. What it says is at the end of the
process you end up with a ratio between assessed and
true market value for each that's within 5 percent.
THE COURT: Mr. Phillips --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that if had the
Platonic, the ideal valuation method, the State could
use it only if it ended up with the right ratio?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the State can use
any -- the State can assess any way it wants to in
defense of its ultimate outcome.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in the end it has to
have the right ratio.
MR. PHILLIPS: At the outcome it has to have
the right ratio. That's clearly what Congress intended.
I mean, this language could not be more straightforward.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, Congress uses the
word "true market value" and under this hypothetical I
come very close to true market value, and you say it
doesn't work.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, my guess is that the
district judge in that situation would probably say that
that is the true market value. The problem is when you
deviate from that methodology when you're evaluating
commercial and industrial property what happens in that
context? Does that end up with a true market value
that's much higher or lower.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought your -- I
thought your submission was that even if is true market
value for the railroad, the ratio still has to be in
line if the methodology is different.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. Well, at the end of
the day that's right. The question here is the
comparison of assessed to true market value on both
sides of the equation. It doesn't dictate the
methodology for get ting there in either situation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Phillips, could I come
back to this question of whether or not there's going to
be a uniform Federal rule or not. When the district
court makes this finding of what the true market value
is that's a finding of fact, I assume.
MR. PHILLIPS: I believe that is, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it would be reviewed
under a clearly erroneous standard by the court of
appeals?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if there were various
methodologies that were possible and this was one of the
ones that was ballpark at least reasonable, would the
court of appeals have any basis for reversing the, how
could you say it's --
MR. PHILLIPS: More often than not, my
answer would be no, there wouldn't be any basis.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, more often
than not. But in fact it is an ultimate finding of
fact, but it's based on valuation methodology and that's
what's at issue here. No one doubts that the
application of a methodology can be challenged. The
question is whether or not if you start out -- I reached
these facts because I used reproduction costs as my
method of valuation, and your submission is going to be
that vastly overvalues our property and you should use a
different method. That's a legal question. That's not
a method -- question of fact.
MR. PHILLIPS: But the protection that we're
seeking, Justice, to answer Justice Scalia's question,
is to have the independent de novo assessment by the
district court. I mean, that's the real purpose of the
statute, is to provide a Federal forum.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the district
court -- what if there is one methodology that gets you
an answer within 20 percent margin of error, up or down,
and there is another methodology that gives you an
answer with a 5 percent margin of error, up or down?
Can you challenge the application of one of those as
opposed to the other.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it depends on what
you're asking me. Are you talking about how the
district court, or the court of appeals? If it's in the
district court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, of course you
can challenge it.
MR. PHILLIPS: -- because the question for
the district court is not with deference to how the
State is evaluating this issue. The question is for the
district court, de novo, to make a determination of what
the true market value is. But asking on the court of
appeals side, that's a different question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My question -- my
question assumes that the methodology leads to a value
that is either 20 percent higher or lower in one case,
and 5 percent higher or lower in the other case.
MR. PHILLIPS: As I understand the way this
statute applies, this is not a statute that worries
about sort of how you get to the numbers. All this
statute worries about is when you get to a number at the
end of the day, is it within 5 percent of the same
number that you -- the same ratio you would have gotten
using whatever methodology you use on a commercial and
industrial side. If the answer to that is it's more
than 5 percent, then we are entitled to injunctive
relief; and if it's not, then we are not entitled to
injunctive relief. And that's why I think it doesn't
make sense to think about this in the context of --
because you know, there's deference to the way the State
analyzes --
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I approach the same
issue this way? When a State board in this case
determines what method of valuation it is going to use,
what does it consider? What are the reasons that it
chooses method A rather than method B?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, in some ways it's
difficult to know. In this particular case --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, what should the
reasons be?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think they should be
applying the professional standards of appraisal.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, but the professional
standards, I take it, are not simply rules that one can
grab out of thin air depending on one's mood. Doesn't
--
MR. PHILLIPS: Trust me, having read them,
you can't grab them out of thin air.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Doesn't one have to choose
the methodology based on some factual determination on
-- which would support a conclusion that this is a
better methodology for this case and others --
MR. PHILLIPS: To be sure.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- for this case than
others?
MR. PHILLIPS: And Justice Souter, that's
driven largely by what data are available and what do we
know about how these methods have been applied in the
past to value this particular property.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But at the end of the day,
it's a determination which is based upon facts. There
are good reasons in fact to choose method A rather than
method B, right?
MR. PHILLIPS: There is also an element of
judgment.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Would it make sense then
for a reviewing court to review the basis upon which the
methodology was chosen, and if in fact there is a
reasonable basis for choosing methodology A rather than
methodology B, accept it and defer it to that extent?
MR. PHILLIPS: In a different world, that
would make perfect sense. That's an approach Congress
clearly could have embraced. The problem is Congress
didn't do that. Congress said choose the true market
value.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure what his
question is. I think he is talking about reviewing the
district court's judgment on that basis.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm talking about reviewing
the judgment of the State authority in choosing one
method rather than another.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And the answer to
that is that Congress didn't intend to set this up as a
review process of what the State does. Congress
intended for the district court to do what this Court
said in Burlington Northern, make the necessary
determination of the true market value of that property.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But we don't -- we don't
know, there is no way of telling whether there is a
variation, or there isn't a variation under the
congressional formula, unless we first have a formula
for determining what the value -- what the true value of
the railroad property is. We know that can vary. That
can vary depending upon the methodology chosen. The
methodology chosen is dependent upon good facts, to pick
one or the other; and therefore, doesn't the very -- the
very criterion that Congress chose ultimately depend
upon the methodology?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, I don't think so. I
think what the Court said is that -- or what Congress
has said is that the district court can take all of that
into account; but at the end of the day, it is the
district court serving as a check on what the State does
that decides what the true market value. I'd like to
reserve the balance of my time, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Phillips.
Mr. Hallward-Driemeier.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS
AMICUS CURAIE SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the court:
Congress did not, in the 4-R Act, establish
a right to obtain in Federal court administrative review
of State valuations. Rather, it established a Federal
right against State discrimination in which the railroad
could bring a de novo suit in Federal court to vindicate
that right. Justice Alito pointed out the wide range of
value that could be generated by generally accepted
methodologies -- 6 billion to 12.4 billion, in this
case. Clearly, if one were to accept the State's rule
that any reasonable methodology, by which they mean any
methodology that is reasonable in the abstract that may
have been approved by this Court in the 1800's, a State
could hide any variety of discriminations within that
rubric. There would be very little, if any meat to
Federal court review under the 4-R Act.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What if you take my
variation on it, and that is, we don't defer it to the
State's choice in the abstract, i.e. if we -- if there
are 10 methods, as long as it's one of the 10 it's okay?
Rather, if we defer at all, we defer it to the choice
that is made to -- to accept one or the other
methodology, and we look to the reasons that the State
gives for making that choice? Would that take all the
teeth out of the Federal act?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, I think that
it would, to a large extent, undermine the right and
protection that Congress intended. And partly, I think
that the -- Your Honor's question is based on a faulty
premise, and that is that the State uses a single
methodology in carrying out its valuation.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Your point is well taken.
It has a variety, and then it makes some kind of a
judgmental choice as between the results it gets. But
that I guess just makes my question more complicated.
As long as it -- as long as it has good reasons for
selecting, let's say the three competing methodologies
that it uses, and as long as it has a rational -- gives
a rational basis for the ultimate resolution, should we
not or should a court not defer to the choices?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, I think that
to call the weighing of the three evidences of value
that might be generated by cost income, sales methods, a
choice of methodology to which the Federal court is
required to defer is a misnomer, because it really is an
exercise of judgment with respect to the facts of the
case and the reliability of the data available.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But doesn't the judgment
get exercised in determining what facts are good reasons
for selecting this methodology, or this variant of
methodology, for this particular case?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: I think Your Honor
is correct, that the -- because you're pointing out that
really, the choice among methodologies is more a
question of what are the facts on the ground, what is
the reliable, available data that could be used in
generating these different evidences of value. And the
court's role, in our view, is to consider all of the
evidences of value, not just the State's evidence. That
would be the proper approach in a suit for
administrative review -- of administrative determination
by the State, but is a de novo proceeding in which the
court is to consider all evidence of value to determine,
to its own satisfaction, what the true market value of
the railroad is.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even if you don't agree
with Justice Souter's test for the district court review
of the State, might you agree with it as applied to the
court of appeals review of the district court's job?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: I do believe that
the court of appeals review is reviewing a determination
of fact by the district court. There may be subsidiary
questions of the law that the court of appeals would
review. For example --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, are you going to
answer my question, yes or no?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: I do believe --
yes, that the review of the appellate court of the
district court's finding is different than the review of
the district court's review of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't ask whether it was
different. I asked whether a reasonable basis for plain
error -- for clearly erroneous review, by the court of
appeals, begins with assessing whether the methodology
used by the district court is reasonable.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, again, I
don't think that it's fair to assume that the district
court would have used a single methodology. Rather --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, a combination of
methodologies. I'm talking about -- when I say
methodology, I mean even if it uses a combination of
five different ones, okay.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it reasonable? How do
you propose to have the court of appeals review the
district court's selection of methodologies?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, it would be,
as Justice Souter suggested, a question of whether those
methodologies -- whether the evidence in the case
indicated that those methodologies were reliable
indications of value.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- were reasonable? Do
they have to have been the very best?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: It would have to be
reasonable for the court to have relied on them --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it clearly erroneous if
it may not be the very best, but it's ballpark and there
is disagreement as to what the very best would be?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: I do believe that's
true, and that is in the nature of the appellate court's
review of the factual finding by the district court.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question?
I understood you to be arguing that the district court
made an error of law in not receiving evidence of a
different methodology offered by the railroads. And
also, if they conceivably -- if I understood you
correctly, you could send the case back, they could then
receive the evidence and come to precisely the same
conclusion that they already came to. That would be
permissible, wouldn't it?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: It would be
permissible. You're absolutely right, Justice Stephens.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's something not
quite right about that. Wasn't all the evidence
submitted, but the district judge said, I have all the
evidence, but I can't consider. It isn't a question of
introducing new evidence when it goes back. It's a
question of looking at the body of evidence that was
submitted.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That's right. It's
not a question of whether it was excluded, in the sense
that Tegarden wasn't allowed to testify. It was
excluded by the court in its consideration.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Were all of the
values that were arrived at in this case within the
ballpark?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, I -- whether
they are in the ballpark is not the test. Whether they
are indications -- reliable indications of true market
value. True market value is a fact that, as the Court
recognized in Burlington Northern, must be determined by
the Federal court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Were all the
valuations used here reliable indications of true market
value?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, they were --
Respondent argues that they were all reasonable
methodologies. But no, I don't think that it's true
that the true market value of the railroad is either 6
billion or 12 billion. The determination the Federal
court has to decide is what is the true market value.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there is no
way to tell. Everybody agrees we're just making more or
less educated guesses.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: I don't think that
that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And so the district
court has to engage in purely fictional enterprise, and
say yes, all the methodologies give you a range of 6 to
12 billion, but I think the answer is 8.2 billion.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, Your Honor, I
do believe that there are bases upon which one can
distinguish the reliability of the stock and debt method
in this case, and the income that the two parties used
--
JUSTICE ALITO: Would you disagree if had
you 10 totally disinterested experts, not paid by either
side, and they engaged in this, that they would not all
come to the same number, that there would be a range and
probably a fairly significant range?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: There would be a
range. I don't know that it would be a range from 6 to
12 billion. But -- I think --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could the district court
appoint a special master to help her?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, the district
-- as in the Tyler Regional Planning case, the Court
indicated that district courts frequently have to
undertake complicated valuation questions, and they rely
on the testimony of experts. Appointment of a master
might well be permissible. But I want to go back to the
textual indications, that this is a question for the
Federal court. There is no question that the statute
refers to the burden of proof in determining true market
value. In Burlington Northern, the Court recognized
that the allocation of burden of proof demonstrates that
it is a fact to be proved to the Court. In fact, in se,
with respect to true market value of the commercial and
industrial properties, it specifically says that it is
to be proved to the satisfaction of the Court. Now in
Burlington Northern, the Court remarked that it would be
unreasonable to construe the statute to lead to
strikingly different approaches, whether the railroad's
challenge was based on the alleged undervaluation of
other properties or overvaluation of the railroad
property. Now, we know from the statute that the court
is not to defer to any methodology, or amalgam of
methodologies, the State uses in valuing other
commercial and industrial property. Rather, the court
is to look to the best evidence of value, which is sales
data. Now, if the court has sales data available to it
in the case regarding the value of the railroad,
certainly the court should rely on that reliable
information, rather than the State's chosen methodology.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Hallward-Driemeier.
Mr. Calvert.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WARREN R. CALVERT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. CALVERT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the court.
Subsection (b)(1) constitutes a narrow
exception to the normal rule of Federal non-interference
in State tax administration that is designed to prohibit
a specific type of tax discrimination. What CSX
contends here is that Congress meant this
anti-discrimination provision to secure for the
railroads what no other taxpayer to our knowledge
currently has. And that is an -- an absolute right to
come into Federal court, and to have a Federal judge
redetermine the market value of its property for State
property tax purposes in whatever manner the Federal
court finds to be appropriate, without regard to the
State's choice of a reasonable valuation method.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to be what it says
though, isn't it?
MR. CALVERT: Your Honor, I don't think
that's what it plainly says.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the language?
What's the crucial language?
MR. CALVERT: Well, it requires the
comparison of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, it doesn't require --
what it say the district court is supposed to find?
MR. CALVERT: Well, it has to find the
assessed value of the railroad, the true market value of
the railroads --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's supposed to find the
true market value of the railroads. It doesn't seem to
me fuzzy language. District court is to find true
market value.
MR. CALVERT: Well, I think in large part,
the railroad's argument is it places on the one word
"true" and the term "true market value" a weight that it
cannot bear. The complaint that the railroads filed in
this case, and this is confirmed by the legislative
history, acknowledged that the word "true market value"
meant the same as "fair market value" or "market value."
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a very strange way of
saying the district judge is to -- is to ask whether the
State has used one of a number of reasonable methods of
determining the market value. To say, go find the true
market value is a very strange way of saying that, and
that's what you, that's what you're saying it means.
MR. CALVERT: Your Honor, I think if
Congress had said the district court is to find fair
market value or the market value it would seem -- it
would seem less strange. And we think there is going to
be a range -- any case like this as evidenced by the
appraisals -- the appraisal prepared by the railroad's
appraiser, as evidenced by the State's appraiser. There
is going to be a range of possible market values.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why would your position be
any stronger if it used fair market value?
MR. CALVERT: Well, Your Honor I think in
the same way that CSX --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or any weaker?
MR. CALVERT: Well, Your Honor, the way that
the railroad says you have to look for the one value
that's true, I would say that if the statute said "fair
market value" the question is there could be many market
values that are fair.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What do you mean, we have
false "fair market value"? I never heard of such a
thing.
MR. CALVERT: I don't believe so, Your
Honor. But I think -- I think there is a range of
possible market values that can be considered fair.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't the point not that
anyone is denying that there can be a range, that there
-- everybody agrees that there is not here, simply
because there is not one methodology, there is not an
exact science which is operating? But isn't the real
point the point that Justice Scalia made, that when
Congress uses the term "true market value," when it has
a criterion of truth, the one thing that does seem to be
clear is that, if you are looking for truth, you do not
defer to a party in interest? And isn't that the one
point? And if you accept that point, then doesn't it
follow that methodology is up to the assessment of the
district court.
MR. CALVERT: I would say that's true, Your
Honor, but I would say that the statute does not plainly
lead to that result.
JUSTICE SOUTER: How could it say it more
plainly than using the criterion of truth?
MR. CALVERT: Well, again, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Truth -- whatever truth
means, it doesn't mean deferring to a party in interest.
Isn't that correct?
MR. CALVERT: Well, I don't believe, Your
Honor, that it is possible to say with any type of
absolute certainty or precision that one --
JUSTICE SOUTER: We all accept that. The
question is not whether we're talking about rocket
science in valuation. The question is whether we are
deferring to a choice made by the party in interest?
And doesn't the criterion of truth imply that we do not?
MR. CALVERT: No, Your Honor, I don't think
that it does. Again, if the -- if the statute had said
what it easily could have said and what the legislative
history says it could have said and what CSX complaint
in this case acknowledged it could have said, that what
the district court had to find was the market value of
the property.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So Congress in effect was
engaging in Pontius Pilate's exercise, what is truth?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I was expecting you to say,
that what is truth?
(Laughter.)
MR. CALVERT: Your Honor, I would say that
the statute does not plainly require that if a State has
determined the market value of the railroad by correctly
applying a reasonable valuation method, that the statute
an ambiguously allows the taxpayer to come in and
challenge that -- not just the application of that
method but the -- but the methodology itself.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And if you limit it to
the application and not the methodology, then Congress's
overriding goal was there was a problem with
overevaluation of the railroad's property, and Congress
was responding to that problem of overevaluating the
property. But if you limit the challenger to just the
application, then you are not going to have as vigorous
a check on over evaluation as you would have if you
could -- if you could reach back to the methodology.
MR. CALVERT: Your Honor, I think what CSX
would like in this case is to turn the Federal district
court, the judge into a board of equalization who has to
-- who has to consider every -- each and every objection
to each and every decision that the State that is made
in valuing its property.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But what you are saying is
that the -- that the court is simply being turned into a
grade school math teacher who looks to see whether the
sums are added up correctly. That can't be what
Congress had in mind.
MR. CALVERT: Well, no, Your Honor. That's
not our position. In fact, the objections that CSX had
specifically to the State's application of the
discounted cash flow were more than what could be fairly
described as checking the math. It wasn't a situation
where one number had had the decimal point in the wrong
place but there was -- there was days of expert
testimony, for example, regarding whether the State's
use of a 6.3 terminal growth rate in the discounted cash
flow was an appropriate number for this railroad.
JUSTICE SOUTER: In other words, there was
-- there was a contest about the judgment used by the
State in selecting one point of datum in its
calculation, right?
MR. CALVERT: That among other --
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right. If that kind of
judgment -- if it makes sense under the statute to put
that kind of judgment in question, why doesn't it
equally make sense under the statute to put other
questions of judgment such as the selection of the
methodology to which the data point in fact is relevant?
Where do you stop?
MR. CALVERT: Well, we think it is -- the
difference, Your Honor, is, while we believe that a
State should have -- should have the right to choose
among the various reasonable types of valuation methods
that can be used in a case like this --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I know that's why you
think. My question is, if you agree that it's
appropriate under the congressional statute to challenge
one issue of judgment, why isn't it equally appropriate
to challenge other issues of judgment, i.e., selection
of methodology?
MR. CALVERT: Well, because it's one thing
to say that the State can choose the valuation formula;
it's another thing that the State is able to dictate how
you fill in the variables. If a State can say we're
going to use the discounted cash flow analysis but
here's the way we're going to --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Each one, as I understand
it, is a question of judgment about what is appropriate
on the facts of this case, or these kinds of cases.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The trouble is you can't
find a -- it is a line, but it's not a line you can
derive from true market value. I mean, you can do it,
but what in the statute suggests that that's what you
should do?
MR. CALVERT: Well, Your Honor, I believe
what you have to find in the statute, because this is a
limited exception to the rule that Federal courts will
not interfere with the State's administration of its own
tax system, is -- I think you need to find something in
the statute which plainly allows the Federal courts to
get into the minutia of not just the way in which the
discounted cash flow formula has been applied or not the
way in which a stock-and-debt formula has been applied,
but its choice at the -- at the very beginning to use
those methodologies.
JUSTICE BREYER: The reason that they do
that is because none of these methods comes even close
to working out what the company is really worth because,
if we had, we wouldn't be here. We'd be out in Wall
Street. We'd make billions.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So they don't
know, and they use all these different methods sort of
as checks one on the other. Now, the railroad simply
wants to say: Look, you had an expert here and he went
and used a method, and it comes up with a certain
number, but if you look at a few other methods, you'll
see that's an outlier. Okay? Now, why shouldn't it be
able to do that?
MR. CALVERT: Well, I guess -- Your Honor, I
think it's specifically because there is that range of
value, that if Congress had intended to -- that the
district courts would examine each and every decision
made by the States deciding it's going to use this
method --
JUSTICE BREYER: They're not going to do
that. The State has enormous leeway. Anyone who valued
a railroad running through the center of this city, of
what it would be worth if the property were sold on the
private market, you'd get an astronomical number. So
the chances of this number being higher than the sales
value of private property is not great.
So, if you've come in with some method that
puts it higher than that, well, why shouldn't they be
able to come in and say: Look, look what they've got
with this method, which in our opinion is not a fair
method. Now, why not? Because after all, if you're
going to say they can't, then there is no check on the
State working out a method that discriminates, as
Justice Ginsburg said, seriously against the railroads.
MR. CALVERT: Well, I think -- I think the
result of that, Your Honor, is -- is you're going to
have a Federal court setting a Federal standard of
valuation for Georgia.
JUSTICE BREYER: What they're going to do is
they're simply going to let people present the evidence
as you've heard, which will have 15 valuation methods if
they want, all serving each as checks on the other.
There's no single method. So why would you end up with
that result?
MR. CALVERT: Well, Your Honor, that's what
-- that's what CSX is -- is arguing here today, but
that's not what they argued in the district court. They
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought -- I thought
you conceded that that was what it would be, because you
said that the Federal court would be turned into a board
of equalization, and a board of equalization is not
making grand law for setting precedent.
MR. CALVERT: Well, I think, Your Honor,
what CSX asked in this case is that -- they have taken
the position, and I believe they still take it for this
Court, that a stock-and-debt method will never give a
reliable estimate of the value of the railroad. So they
want -- what they want to come out of this litigation is
the State of Georgia cannot use that at all.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think what they want is
to be able to attack the methodology and not be limited
to the application of whatever methodology the State
prefers.
MR. CALVERT: That's correct, Your Honor,
but the point I'm that trying to make is that what they
-- what they want to see come out of this case is the
State of Georgia -- not simply that the State of Georgia
couldn't use the stock-and-debt methodology for this tax
year; they want a ruling that basically says it can't
use it for any year.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I don't think they're
not going to get that from this Court, any more than
they could get it from the Court of Appeals. All the
Court of Appeals can say, it seems to me, is that the
methodology that the district court used was not clearly
erroneous.
I think another district court in a later
year could probably use a different methodology, which
would again be affirmed by the Court of Appeals because
it was not clearly erroneous. We're not -- I don't
think either the Court of Appeals or this Court is
placing any stamp on a particular methodology.
MR. CALVERT: But -- but Your Honor, that is
what they tried to get from the district court in this
case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe they did, but they're
not going to get it here.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question
about your position? Supposing Dickerson had adopted
the stock-and-debt method and taken the $12 million --
$12 billion figure and said that's really a reasonable
basis, and then he ended up with that value. Would you
be able to defend that decision with precisely the same
arguments that you're making today?
MR. CALVERT: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's what --
I'm sorry.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I just wanted to be sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought that would
be part of your reply to Justice Breyer, that you had
five different methodologies here and you chose the
lowest one; and the question really is how many more
methodologies do you have to look at if you're going to
choose the lowest one in each case.
MR. CALVERT: Well, and that is what we did
in this case, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: If it had been -- I'm
sorry -- if it had been Dickerson's methodology at the
last step to choose the highest value, would that be
reasonable?
MR. CALVERT: Again, Your Honor, I think --
I think a State could do that. You're still within the
range of value. I will say this. If the State had done
that in an effort to overvalue the railroads, or to
discriminate against them or to treat them differently
than other taxpayers, I think you might have a problem
under the statute, but I don't think it's a problem
under (b)(1). I think that would be a problem under
(b)(4) which is the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: This State appraiser as I
understand it had never done an appraisal before of --
of this magnitude, right?
MR. CALVERT: No, Your Honor. He's done
well over a thousand appraisals involving the
application of the unit rule. What he had -- what he
had not done before is provide a written narrative
report much like the railroad's appraiser did, but the
valuation work sheets that are attached as part of the
joint exhibit basically set out the calculations. Then
when he did his full appraisal report, it includes
certain narrative materials, certain explanation of the
various methods he used. But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm looking for the
footnote, but I -- I was, I was impressed by what seemed
to me the -- the vast difference in -- in qualifications
and experience of the -- of the State appraiser and of
the expert who was brought in by the railroads at the
trial. And it seemed to me quite absurd to say we have
to defer to -- to this novice in the field, and -- and
not look at the -- at the testimony of -- of someone who
has done a lot of it before.
MR. CALVERT: No. The State's appraiser,
Your Honor, had done, had done well over -- well over a
thousand of these types of appraisals. He has taught in
national schools on these issues. He has published in
State and national journals on these issues, so we
contend that his -- his credentials are --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did you have a response --
did you have a response to that footnote? I didn't --
MR. CALVERT: Yes. We do, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sorry. I must have
skipped that.
MR. CALVERT: We have our own footnote.
JUSTICE SCALIA: A little footnote battle
here, right?
MR. CALVERT: That is footnote 3, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of yours?
MR. CALVERT: Of our brief.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You know, if this
comes down as it probably will in every case, to a
battle of competing experts, are you aware of any other
area where we say that a district court cannot look at
the methodology used by an expert in determining whether
or not to give credence to the expert's opinion?
MR. CALVERT: No, I'm not, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So why should we
create a special rule here for the State?
MR. CALVERT: Well, this is a -- this is a
special statute and again I think what CSX is asking for
this -- for this Court to do is create a special rule
for it which gives it, unique among taxpayers, as far as
we are aware, the right to come into Federal court and
challenge each and every decision that the State has
made in valuing property for property taxes and have the
Federal court redetermine that value.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, if -- I take it to
determine how far you could go with that, I take it
though in your view if the State's appraiser had never
done an appraisal before in his life, if he were plucked
off the street by the State and said, you know,
"appraise the railroad property; we are making you a
State appraiser," on your view the district court could
not look behind that?
MR. CALVERT: Well, the district court could
certainly thoroughly examine the way in which the -- the
reasonable valuation methodologies that the State
selected were applied.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Exactly. But the selection
of the methodology by the guy off the street could not
be examined.
MR. CALVERT: Well -- well, Your Honor, we
think the methodology has to at least be reasonable.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it's -- it's one of
the recognized methodologies.
MR. CALVERT: I think if the State has used
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: It happens to be the one
that gives the highest number. But it's a recognized
methodology and there are certain -- certainly examples
in which that methodology has been used, and I take it
that if the guy off the street picks one of those, and
that's all we know about it, the district court on your
view cannot look behind it.
MR. CALVERT: I'd say that's correct. If
it's a widely used accepted valuation methodology like
the ones the State used in this case, that the question
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's what you have
here. I've looked -- I've looked at your footnote and I
see that indeed Mr. Dickerson did have over 30 years
experience including well over a thousand valuations --
performed under the unit rule; performed under one
method of evaluation, right?
MR. CALVERT: The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the whole issue here is
that that method of valuation, however expert he is at
it, is not proper here. It doesn't work. That there
are other ones that should have been brought to bear.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought both sides
agreed that the unit --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was one of the ones, yes;
but that's not the only one. That's the only one he is
an expert in.
MR. CALVERT: Both sides agree that the unit
rule is appropriate in this case. The question then is
how to -- how to determine what the unit value of the
company was; but there is no dispute in this case that
the unit rule is appropriate. So the appraisals that
the State's appraiser had performed under the unit rule
are exactly the type of appraisals --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it's different
methodologies under the unit rule. He has used -- he
has used different methodologies under --
MR. CALVERT: Than the railroad did.
Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I guess the term
methodology is confusing because you could think it
means unit rule --
MR. CALVERT: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: --or you could think how
under the unit rule, what is the --
MR. CALVERT: That's right, Your Honor. If
I could make -- if I could make one point about the unit
rule and the choice between the unit rule and what we
refer to as the summation approach, the specific dispute
in this case has been between the various methods for
determining what the unit value of the company was for
2002 under the unit rule -- but the argument that CSX is
making in this case would also put -- put into play a
State's most fundamental methodological choice between
the unit rule and the summation approaches, and CSX's
reply brief admits as such.
The railroads had made -- had made such an
argument in the Chesapeake Western case out of the
Fourth Circuit where -- where Virginia's courts had held
that the unit rule was not an appropriate valuation
method under their statutes to arrive at fair market
value, the railroads came in and said under the 4-R Act,
we are entitled to put on proof under the unit rule as
to what our fair market value, that the Federal statute
makes all that open; the district court has to consider
all that evidence. And what the -- and the Fourth
Circuit rejected that argument, but that's the
implication.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if what if the
State elected to use reproduction cost as its valuation
method, which I guess everybody agrees vastly overstates
the value of the railroad?
MR. CALVERT: Well I think the problem, Your
Honor, with reproduction cost is -- is how to -- is how
to accurately account for obsolescence. My
understanding of the objection --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if there are
problems with a particular methodology, the methodology
can be challenged?
MR. CALVERT: It's possible, Your Honor,
that a reproduction cost methodology might -- might so
inadequately deal with the issue of obsolescence that
you just have to say that's not a reasonable
methodology, as applied to railroads.
JUSTICE SOUTER: How could you say it on
your theory?
MR. CALVERT: Pardon me?
JUSTICE SOUTER: How could you say it
consistently with your position here?
MR. CALVERT: Well, I think, Your Honor, the
court is allowed to examine whether you have a --
whether the State has used a reasonable methodology.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then why doesn't the court
have an opportunity or the right to examine whether any
particular methodology is reasonable as applied to this
taxpayer and this kind of property at this time?
MR. CALVERT: Well, I think that goes to the
question of whether you have properly applied a
reasonable valuation method, and there is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I thought -- I thought you
were saying that the reproduction method had such severe
problems associated with it that it simply would not be
a fair methodology to use and at least a reviewing
court, a district court could -- could draw that
conclusion. I thought that was your answer.
MR. CALVERT: Well, I think it depends, Your
Honor, on if you have a reproduction cost method that
you have applied to property that -- property that has
only just recently been purchased, then I don't think
you're going to have a problem with it at all, even --
JUSTICE SOUTER: We are talking about the
railroads like CSX, and I thought your answer was that
a -- a district court could conclude that as applied in
a case like this, that there are so many problems that
it simply would not be a reasonable valuation method.
MR. CALVERT: I -- I think that is possible.
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right. Then well then
how do you draw a line?
MR. CALVERT: Well again, Your Honor, I
think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: If you can do that, why
can't it do what -- what your brother is saying it
should do in this case?
MR. CALVERT: Well, I think, Your Honor,
that in -- in -- in -- again, I don't think that is the
argument they have made in this case.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, let's assume I'm
making that argument now in my question. Why -- why can
you draw the line that you want to draw?
MR. CALVERT: Well again, I think that goes
to whether the application is going to be -- is going to
be reasonable in the particular situation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. And your
argument is that it's not reasonable because it must
overstate the value by a particular percentage or
number.
And I think Justice Souter's question is:
Well, where do you draw the line?
If you say it's not reasonable because it
overstates value by 50 percent, is a methodology that
overstates value by 20 percent reasonable or not --
MR. CALVERT: Well, I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- keeping in mind
all the methodologies here range from 8 -- 6 billion to
12 billion.
MR. CALVERT: And I -- I think, if you
looked at the mid- point of the ranges that each -- each
of the appraisers had, you would have a variation,
maybe, of about 20 percent either way. Again, I
don't think that's going to be determinative as to
whether you've got a reasonable methodology, whether
it's been properly applied, and what that range is. I
think that's the nature of the -- of the appraisal task
that States have.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Calvert, can you tell
me how this thing works, or how it may work in the
future?
Does the State just whip up a number and lay
it on the railroad, or -- or, in fact, is there some
discussion each year between the railroad's experts and
the -- and the State's experts as to what the right
number should be?
MR. CALVERT: What happens, Your Honor, is
that the railroad returns are filed with the State; and
there is a period of time during which the State
examines those returns, takes the evaluation
methodologies that it has selected, applies it to the
data that it has for those particular companies, comes
up with numbers. Those -- that information, typically,
is shared with the railroads.
For them to come back and say: Well, we
think you've used cost of capital that's too low; we
think you've done -- done this; this number really, we
believe, should be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So there is some
give-and-take discussion before the State comes down
firmly and says: Cough up the money?
MR. CALVERT: Typically, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I take it this question
about the unit rule -- I take it Georgia is figuring out
what the entire value of the railroad is throughout the
country. Have other States had to make the same
determination to apply their unit rules?
MR. CALVERT: I'm sorry, Your Honor?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let's say, do Tennessee
and Mississippi have to also apply the unit rule to
value the property of this particular railroad?
MR. CALVERT: I think -- I think the
majority of States that value railroad property use the
unit rule.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is it admissible evidence
to find out what other -- figures other States have come
up with? Because you're all taking the same answer,
aren't you --
MR. CALVERT: I --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- if you all use the unit
rule?
MR. CALVERT: We are, Your Honor, though if
a State is using a different methodology to determine
the unit rule, I think you would probably expect --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What if the evidence shows
that 49 States have come up with a valuation of $5
billion, and you use a method that comes up with $8
billion? Would that be admissible evidence?
MR. CALVERT: I think it probably would be,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And does the record
contain any such evidence in this case? Do we know what
other States have found.
MR. CALVERT: I think the evidence in this
case was that the State of Georgia's unit value, at
least within the southeast States, was -- was the
largest number.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Was the highest?
MR. CALVERT: That's correct.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Doesn't that raise some
suspicion about maybe they have a different approach
than is commonly applied seeking precisely the same
answer to precisely the same question?
MR. CALVERT: Well, Your Honor, I think our
-- our response is that we believe that in 2002 what the
State did was not only to make some changes in its
valuation methodologies, but it also made a fairly
significant change in the income numbers that the State
was using to apply its discounted cash flow analysis.
And specifically what it did: It started
using -- instead of numbers from the regulatory report,
the R-1 report that the railroads filed with the Surface
Transportation Board, it began to use income numbers
from the annual reports to shareholders.
There is a significant difference in those
numbers, and the testimony in this case was that the 47
percent increase that CSX saw in its assessment from
2001 to 2002 was attributable to the difference in the
income numbers that were being used.
I suspect that for many of the other States
that have low numbers for CSX, that they still use
numbers from the regulatory reports as opposed to the
annual reports.
So that's one reason that I believe we've
got -- we had such a larger number for 2002 than many
other States, because our appraiser was looking to the
correct income numbers.
If I could, just in the remaining time that
I've got, I'd like to mention a couple of points. The
CSX has contended that this line between method and
application is simply unworkable; and, therefore, the
Court shouldn't recognize any -- any such distinction
under the statute.
We think there are a couple points where the
lines are clear. One is between the unit rule and the
summation approaches. The brief filed by the
Association of American Railroads acknowledges that
those are two different methods.
It's not -- one could not say that a stock
and debt method is just an application of discounted
cash flow, so there are certain places where those lines
are clear.
We believe the fact that the line may not
always be -- or the boundaries may not always be
perfectly distinct, or that the test may not always be
what it might be easy to describe in the abstract -- it
doesn't mean that the distinction should not be
recognized at all under the statute.
Also, there is the way in which the Eleventh
Circuit formulated the test where the Eleventh Circuit
said a line bar between method and application was
between nonfactual determinations used in constructing
the valuation process, however broad or narrow they
might be.
The Court said that constitutes the method.
Everything else is an application.
The suggestion has been made by the
Solicitor General in their brief that -- that that means
as long as the State can announce or can set out its
valuation rule in general enough terms, make it general
enough, then that will become part of the method and not
part of the application.
I think if the Eleventh Circuit's opinion is
read in context, the Eleventh circuit didn't say that.
Specifically, the Eleventh circuit was
distinct -- was saying -- was rejecting the argument in
that case that only the distinction between the unit
rule and the summation approach is -- was the only
methodological distinction. And the Court was saying:
We think that differences in methodologies include the
stock and debt, the discounted cash flow, and the market
multiples approaches used in this case.
So the Eleventh Circuit did go and consider
the argument that the State had -- should not have used
a 6.3 percent terminal growth rate in the discounted
cash flow analysis even though that it used that in --
in all -- for all public utilities.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Calvert. Mr. Phillips, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I will try to be brief. First of all,
Justice Stevens, in response to your question on the
comparisons between Georgia and other States, on page 22
of our cert petition we pointed out that in the 2006 tax
year Georgia and Florida had adopted unit values of
$11.2 billion and $12.9 billion; whereas, every other
State in those jurisdictions that used the unit value
had an assessment value of $7.1 billion. And the
Respondent State did not question that.
So I mean the reality is there are wide
swings, and it does make a difference what methodology
you do, and it's part of the reason why it's absolutely
critical that the Court should enforce the language of
the statute. As Justice Scalia quite properly
recognizes, it is the true market value.
And this is not a statute like, for
instance, 28 U.S.C. 1254(d)(1) in AEDPA, which says the
Federal courts should defer to any reasonable
determination by the State courts in a judgment Federal
law.
This is a statute that vests the district
court with the exclusive authority to make the
determination of the true market value.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean I assume
that's in the normal context of the adversary process.
In other words, the district court does not necessarily
have to come up with a number independent of what the
parties present to it.
MR. PHILLIPS: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It can decide which
of the presentations is closer to true market value.
MR. PHILLIPS: Absolutely. And that's -- and
that's exactly the point, Mr. Chief Justice. There
isn't any single method that's out there. All we have
are a series of evidences of value, and the district
court needs to be able to evaluate them without regard
to some kind of thumb on the scale of the State, in
favor of the State. And as you asked the question, you
know, is there any other valuation process that would
work this way, the answer was no. And the problem is
that there is nothing in this, in this statute that
remotely suggests that Congress would have wanted to do
anything other than the ordinary or typical valuation in
this context.
Justice Souter, I think you made the point,
which is the one I wanted to make in my opening
statement, which is how is it possible that Congress
recognizes decades of discrimination involving tens or
hundreds of millions of dollars would have said and now
when you get to the point of trying to correct that
discrimination, what are you going to do? Defer to the
entity that's been discriminating for all of those
years. It is at least passing strange, if not
incredible to think that that's what Congress meant.
It is much more sensible to think that
Congress wanted the district court to serve as a serious
check on what the state did. That's what we didn't get
in this case. That's what we are entitled to. I urge
the Court to vacate and to revamp.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Phillips, the case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
36:17 AEDPA 56:20 39:11 54:6 55:17 37:3
38:16 affect 10:18,21 APPEARAN... appropriate Atlanta 1:22
57:14 affirmed 39:9 1:14 28:21 34:5,25 attached 41:9
58:17 agree 22:13,15 24:7 45:10 46:13 Attorney 1:21
agreed 4:2 45:2 14:18 15:10 area 42:19 53:13
57:10 31:4 46:24 33:23 38:17 argues 25:19 56:25
AL 1:7 54:10,21 55:1 37:25 11:19,25 17:17
31:12 26:13 40:13 22:15 35:25 11:21,23,24 aware 42:18
alleged 27:16 36:1 43:19 19:19 28:6 43:4
allow 11:25 48:11,16 50:5 46:20 49:4,6 58:16
applies 16:4 56:1 B
35:23 apply 51:12,15 39:25 16:21 17:23
12:6 ambiguously 32:22 arrive 46:14 back 13:23
47:3 American 54:7 Appointment asked 23:4 38:9 33:9 50:24
32:11 8:11 19:21 appraisal 17:2 asking 15:13,22 ballpark 14:9
53:4 55:21 43:11 50:6 assess 12:20 bar 54:21
46:15 announce 55:4 41:5,25 45:10 12:13 13:19 17:10,21 21:1
35:21 26:7 48:8,15 43:10,14 45:11 56:11 basis 9:3 14:10
22:8,8 57:18 appraisers 12:4 1:21 18:13 21:11
52:8 28:15 approach 3:13 Association 54:7 battle 42:10,18
8:5 14:5,10 22:7 46:2 57:2 began 53:8
2:4,6,9,12 29:19 30:7 Chief 3:3,9 5:12 combination
19:20 28:7 C 32:11 33:11 5:17,23 6:6,15 23:11,13
C 2:1 3:1 34:22 35:12 6:24 7:12 8:19 come 5:10 13:4
24:6 calculated 4:17 40:10,12 42:17 11:1 14:14 26:16 28:18
30:24 calculation 4:24 44:13 45:7,9 15:5,16,24 32:23 37:6,8
34:19 7:25 34:9 46:3,6,11 19:16,22 25:6 38:13,21 43:4
38:10 calculations 48:17 49:1,4 25:15,24 26:4 50:24 51:21
52:25 41:10 52:12,15 53:11 28:3,8 40:2,5 52:6 57:5
54:13 call 21:14 55:12,17 58:11 42:16,23 46:22 comes 9:22,25
9:23 29:4,8,15 30:3 35:12 57:2,8,11 52:7
24:4,5 30:13,16,24 cash 6:19 33:24 58:14 commercial
31:15,20,24 34:4 35:8,25 choice 9:13 3:25 11:12,18
8:21 9:8 35:4,18 36:18 center 37:1 28:22 32:5 commonly
25:22 37:14,24 38:8 cert 56:7 36:2 46:1,7 52:22
26:7,7 38:19 39:13 certain 11:10 choices 21:12 companies
39:22 40:1,11,17 36:14 41:12,12 choose 17:9,22 50:21
52:7 41:4,23 42:6,9 44:6 54:11 18:9 34:20 company 36:6
56:9,9,11 42:12,15,22,25 certainly 27:25 35:5 40:10,15 45:9 46:4
33:12 47:1,8,15,18 8:2,14,22 9:11 chose 19:7 40:7 3:23
53:8 47:25 48:9,19 15:10,17 27:16 chosen 5:18 18:3 comparison
51:17,24 52:2 10:23 14:18 54:20 55:9,10 56:6
37:18 55:24 challenger 33:6 Circuit's 55:8 42:18
capital 50:25 challenging 9:3 circumstances complaint 29:18
46:9 CARTER 1:15 change 6:17 cite 7:2,8 completely 9:4
55:3 56:4 2:3,11 3:7 56:1 53:3 city 37:1 complicated
16:1,2,18,23 checking 33:25 12:25 14:4 24:13
54:16
24:16 45:17 52:19 43:2,4,7,14,16 16:7 17:20 33:25
53:22 58:3 44:9 46:18 19:12 designed 28:12
5:1,2 47:2,9 48:10 57:14 58:9,12 debt 9:5 26:10 25:22 51:12
12:25 50:25 courts 26:25 54:10 55:16 56:22 57:1
18:7,8,9 costs 14:20 35:20,23 36:21decades 58:1 determinations
19:7 cost-free 8:13 46:12 56:21,22decide 8:5 25:23 54:22
20:25 Cough 51:5 court's 5:4 7:4 57:8 determinative
30:4 country 12:8 7:18 10:11 decides 6:19 50:3
32:14 51:11 18:13 22:5,16 19:14 determine 4:12
36:20 couple 53:24 23:1,2,18 24:7deciding 36:22 5:13 7:21 9:7
58:7 54:4 crafted 3:12 decimal 34:1 22:10 43:9
course 15:16 create 42:24 decision 7:9 45:8 52:3
34:25 3:10,12,18 4:7 created 3:24 36:21 39:24 25:13 32:21
24:23 6:11,19 7:2,3,9 criterion 19:7 defend 39:24 determining
46:18 7:10,13,14,15 31:9,19 32:6 defense 12:21 3:13 5:3,19 6:1
7:21 8:3,5,6 critical 56:16 defer 18:5 20:15 6:9,14 7:5
10:1 12:15 CSX 1:3 3:4 21:17 27:19 19:2 21:21
18:2,20,20 37:25 38:9 16:15 deviate 13:9
28:10 19:25 20:3,10 48:15 53:12,16 32:5 39:20 44:17
20:13 21:12,16 53:25 degree 4:15 Dickerson's
22:19,20,25 CURAIE 19:21 27:8 dictate 13:20
55:9 29:7,13 30:4 21:19 22:3 depends 15:12 9:10,11 11:15
31:14 32:12 27:23,23 34:16 48:9 12:7 13:16
24:12 15:3,5,14,15 39:23 27:22 37:19 fact 7:20,22 8:6
36:11 15:19,21 18:13 enforce 56:16 46:19 51:20 10:17 14:1,15
40:7 18:20 19:11,13 engage 26:5 52:5,8,12,14 14:16,24 17:22
52:3 22:14,16,19 engaged 26:15 evidenced 30:7 18:3 22:19
54:8 23:1,2,7,9,18 engaging 32:15 30:9 25:12 27:9,9
26:4,21,23,25 enterprise 26:5 22:4,6 57:13 50:12 54:13
39:5,7,14 entity 58:5 examine 36:21 factual 17:10
33:24 44:9 46:18 3:5 33:12 38:6 examined 43:22 fair 23:9 29:21
35:8,25 48:7,16 56:24 38:6 examines 50:19 30:4,12,18,20
54:10 57:4,13 58:9 equally 34:14 examining 3:24 30:22 31:1
doing 5:2 8:14 35:1 example 6:18 37:9 46:14,17
doubts 14:17 13:20 examples 44:6 fairly 5:5 26:17
1:17 2:5 19:19 14:4 23:5 24:3 35:20 false 30:22
49:7,7,16 error 15:7,9 exclusive 56:25 fashion 4:10
28:13 D.C 1:9,15,19 ESQ 1:15,17,21 32:15 favor 57:16
2:3,5,8,11 exercised 21:21 favorable 7:1
E 2:1 3:1,1 19:24 expect 52:4 9:14,15,18,22
easily 32:9 estate 11:12 experience 13:24 15:4
educated 26:1 ET 1:7 expert 5:7,8 20:13,22 21:16
effort 40:20 7:21 10:9 41:18 42:20 28:11,18,18,20
12:11 13:21 evaluated 4:8 experts 4:17 37:16,16 38:5
55:12,14 26:14 39:11 evaluating 12:4 42:18 50:13,14 56:21,22
elected 46:23 evaluation 33:8 explaining 5:5 FERC 11:7
5:2,4,13 Eleventh 9:2 everybody 9:6 41:12 field 41:20
6:11,19 54:19,20 55:8 25:25 31:4 extent 18:5 figure 4:23
55:9,10,18 46:24 20:24 39:22
8:3,6 embraced 18:8 evidence 22:6,10 figures 51:21
10:1,11 enacted 8:10 23:21 24:11,15 F figuring 51:9
13:7,24 ended 12:18 24:21,23,24,25 facet 5:20 filed 29:18 50:17
54:6 G gotten 16:8 31:20,25 32:7 information
30:4 Ga 1:22 grade 33:18 36:18 37:15,24 16:13
35:14,19 general 1:18,22 grand 38:7 38:8,19 39:13 instance 56:20
51:21 55:3,5,5 great 37:5 40:1,12,17 intend 18:18
23:1 generated 20:5 group 12:3 42:13,22 43:23 9:20 12:25
21:15 growth 34:4 45:24 47:2,8 18:20 20:25
56:4 51:9 56:6,8 guesses 26:1 Honor's 21:1 interfere 35:21
33:1
35:8,25 37:13 38:3,15 Hallward-Dri... 58:1
54:11 1:17 2:5 19:18 I issue 4:3 8:13
give 26:6 38:11 19:19,22 20:23 ideal 12:17 14:17 15:20
gives 15:8 20:21 22:24 23:8,15 implication 44:22 47:10
41:15 44:5 24:18 25:2,9 imply 32:6 42:2
give-and-take 25:18 26:2,8 impressed 41:15 i.e 20:16 35:2
51:4 26:18,23 28:4 inadequately
35:5,25 43:9 55:18 9:21 13:10 includes 41:11 joint 41:10
goal 33:3 44:4 50:16 including 11:11 journal 12:3
24:24 47:25 heard 30:22 income 21:15 judge 10:11 13:7
37:18,19 39:2 history 29:20 23:23 25:11,11 judiciary 9:15
50:3 58:4 21:24 26:8 11:18 13:10 jurisdictions
4:14 5:12 57:11,23 58:14 51:14 4:4,13,16 5:3 17:22,23 18:16
6:6,15 life 43:11 5:11,14,19,22 26:10 28:22
7:12,23 K limit 33:1,6 5:25 6:5,9,14 32:22,25 36:14
9:9 keeping 49:21 limited 35:20 6:23 7:5,14,19 36:23 37:6,9
KENNEDY 38:16 8:4 9:7,24 10:1 37:10,12,22
12:2 11:8,20 12:2 line 13:16 35:14 12:14 13:3,4,8 38:11 39:21
13:2 12:16,22 13:2 35:14 48:21 13:11,14,19,25 44:20,23 46:14
14:3 13:13 30:11,15 49:7,16 53:25 15:22 18:9,22 46:24 48:2,4
15:1 30:21 54:13,21 19:14 22:11 48:10,18 52:7
kind 3:17 21:5 lines 54:5,11 25:11,12,16,21 53:25 54:10,21
17:3 34:11,13 47:24 listened 10:13 25:23 27:6,10 54:25 55:6
57:15 10:14 28:19 29:9,12 57:12
kinds 35:12 litigation 38:13 29:14,17,20,21 methodological
20:4 know 6:8 16:15 little 20:12 29:21,25 30:1 46:7 55:14
21:4,20 16:23 17:18 42:10 30:5,5,10,12 methodologies
18:24 19:3 long 20:17 21:8 30:19,19,22 9:12 11:15
26:19 27:18 21:8,10 55:4 31:1,8 32:12 12:7,11 14:8
24:3,9 34:23 36:11 look 5:3 7:4 32:21 35:15 20:6 21:9 22:1
25:6 42:16 43:12 20:20 27:22 37:3 46:14,17 23:12,18,21,22
26:4 44:9 52:12 30:17 36:13,15 55:16 56:18 25:20 26:6
28:3 57:17 37:8,8 40:9 57:1,9 27:20 36:3
29:2,6 knowledge 41:21 42:19 master 26:22 40:7,9 43:18
30:11 28:16 43:15 44:10 27:2 44:1 45:14,15
31:2 looked 7:4 44:16 materials 41:12 49:22 50:20
L 44:16 49:25 math 33:18,25 53:2 55:15
language 4:8 looking 24:25 matter 1:11 8:6 methodology
34:6 13:1 29:2,3,13 31:10 41:14 58:17 5:14,18,24,24
35:10 56:16 53:21 mean 4:20 5:6 6:4 9:3,11,11
36:4,10 large 11:20 looks 33:18 13:1 15:3 20:8 9:13,15,19
37:13,18 20:24 29:15 lot 10:3 41:22 23:13 30:21 11:17 12:1
39:1 largely 17:17 low 8:22 50:25 31:22 35:15 13:9,16,21
40:2 larger 53:20 53:16 54:17 56:13 14:16,18 15:6
largest 52:17 lower 13:12 16:1 57:2 15:8,25 16:9
42:4,7 Laughter 32:18 16:2 meaning 4:5 17:10,12 18:3
36:9 39:18 lowest 40:8,10 means 30:2 18:4,5 19:4,5,8
law 22:20 24:11 31:22 45:20 20:8,9,20 21:3
38:7 56:23 M 55:3 21:16,22,23
lay 50:11 magnitude 41:3 meant 28:14 23:6,10,13
46:22 lead 27:14 31:17 majority 51:18 29:21 58:7 24:12 27:19
leads 15:25 making 3:18 meat 20:12 28:1 31:5,13
led 6:4 8:17 20:21 mention 53:24 32:25 33:2,9
leeway 36:25 25:25 38:7 method 6:12,25 34:16 35:3
51:3,7,8 left 3:21 39:25 43:13 7:5,13,14,24 38:16,17,23
legal 14:23 46:6 49:6 9:6 10:18 39:5,8,12
legislative 29:19 manner 28:20 11:11,13 12:17 40:14 42:20
56:3,5 32:9 margin 15:7,9 14:21,23,24 43:21,24 44:6
57:2,8 let's 6:17,18 market 3:22 4:1 16:19,21,21 44:7,12 45:19
49:5
non-interfere... 42:21 55:8 party 31:11,22 Pilate's 32:15
48:6 28:11 opportunity 32:5 place 34:2
50:4 normal 28:11 47:22 passing 58:6 places 29:16
56:14 57:3 opposed 15:11 people 37:19 54:11
21:15 Northern 4:7 oral 1:11 2:2 3:7
16:1,2,7 plain 23:4
34:21 18:21 25:13 19:19 28:6 16:11 49:18,19 plainly 29:1
27:7,13 ordinary 5:6 50:2 53:12 31:16,19 32:20
41:13 November 1:10 57:21 55:20 35:23
54:8 novice 41:20 ought 10:24 percentage Planning 26:24
29:24 34:1,5 33:5 44:19,19 45:11 plucked 43:11
numbers 16:5 49:18,19 person 8:17 58:3
objections 33:22 56:6 6:2,15 7:7,17 possible 14:8
47:3,10 Pardon 47:15 10:6,10,20,24 47:8 48:19
once 6:25 8:12 11:25 16:22 17:1,7 39:24 52:22,23
38:11 open 46:18 49:10,13 50:21 56:1,3 57:7,10 premise 21:2
43:10 opening 57:24 51:16 58:15 prepared 30:8
10:11 37:9 partly 20:25 pictorial 3:15 presentations
20:25 railroad 3:14 55:9 Regional 26:24
13:7 55:22 30:17 32:21 21:17 22:1 relevant 34:16
39:8 published 42:1 34:5 36:12 36:6 39:22 reliability 21:19
52:4,9 purchased 37:1 38:12 40:8 51:1 26:10
33:3,5 purely 12:10 46:25 50:12,17 53:19 56:15 23:22 25:11,16
26:5 51:10,16,18 reasonable 4:24 27:25 38:12
48:13 purpose 15:3 railroads 7:1 14:9 18:4 20:8 relied 24:2
purposes 28:20 8:10,14 11:11 20:9 23:4,7,16 relief 16:12,13
46:6,6,16 29:10,12,18 25:19 28:22 remaining 53:23
54:23 Q 47:12 48:15 40:16 43:18,24 remotely 57:20
qualifications 50:23 53:7 47:11,20,23 rental 11:12
question 5:21 railroad's 27:15 49:12,17,19 report 41:8,11
14:23,24 15:1 50:13 16:25 17:22 53:18
15:25 18:12 range 4:16,24 REBUTTAL 6:12 14:20
56:17 23:20 24:9,23 26:16,17,19,19 receive 24:15 48:4,10
27:11,17 27:4,5 30:19 31:3 36:19 recognize 54:2 32:20
4:5 34:24 35:11 50:5 25:13 27:7 requires 29:4
6:21 8:18 39:19 40:8 ranges 49:25 44:1,5 54:18 reserve 19:15
11:13 44:13 45:7 rate 10:17 11:1 recognizes 9:6 resolution 21:11
12:5 48:1 49:6,15 34:4 55:20 56:18 58:1 resolve 7:16
14:22 51:8 52:23 rates 10:18,21 record 52:11 resolves 9:24
18:22 56:5,12 57:16 10:24 redetermine respect 11:10,12
27:18,21 questions 22:20 ratio 3:23,24 28:19 43:7 21:18 27:10
32:13 27:1 34:15 12:13,18,23,25 refer 46:2 respective 4:13
37:2 quite 24:21 13:15 16:8 refers 27:6 Respondent
43:6,6,13 41:19 56:17 rational 21:10 reflects 5:14 25:19 56:12
48:11,11 21:11 regard 28:21 Respondents
R reach 33:9 57:14 1:22 2:9 28:7
56:5 role 22:5 42:10,14 44:15 shows 52:5 specifically
rule 6:1,13 9:15 50:8 51:3,7 12:11 15:23 36:19 53:5
35:20 41:6 school 33:18 45:6 standard 10:8
20:13 51:19 52:1,4 Section 3:11 37:19 38:22 start 14:19
54:5 55:5,13 secure 28:15 48:5,18 54:1 started 53:5
23:1 rules 17:4 51:12 see 6:6 33:18 single 7:11 9:19 state 1:6 3:5,13
24:8 ruling 38:24 36:16 38:21 21:2 23:10 5:9 9:4,12,22
22:18 R-1 53:7 52:22 13:21 33:25 15:20 16:15,18
selected 43:19 49:10 18:15,19 19:13
S 2:1 3:1 selecting 21:9,22 sold 6:21 37:2 21:2 22:9,15
17:23 sales 6:22 21:15 34:8 Solicitor 1:18 27:20 28:12,19
19:25 27:22,23 37:4 selection 23:18 55:3 29:24 32:20
satisfaction 34:15 35:2 sorry 40:3,14 33:14 34:8,20
25:2 22:11 27:12 43:20 42:7 51:13 35:5,6,7 36:25
34:9,11 saw 53:12 send 24:14 sort 11:24 16:5 37:12 38:14,17
36:10 saying 29:23 Senior 1:21 36:11 38:22,22 40:18
42:11 30:1,2 33:16 sense 16:14 18:1 Souter 16:17,24 40:19 41:1,17
44:20 48:4,25 55:11 18:7 25:3 17:3,9,14,16 42:2,24 43:5
47:22 55:14 34:12,14 17:20 18:1,14 43:12,14,18
49:11 says 5:6,24 6:2,8 sensible 58:8 18:23 20:14 44:2,13 46:23
7:13,14 10:11 series 57:13 21:4,20 23:20 47:20 50:11,17
6:6 30:17 32:10 serve 58:9 34:6,11,23 55:4,19 56:10
7:12 8:19 38:24 51:5 serving 19:13 35:10 43:8,20 56:12,22 57:15
10:16,22 56:20 37:21 43:25 44:4 57:16 58:10
14:14 scale 57:15 set 3:15 18:18 47:13,16,21 statement 57:25
Scalia 10:3,6,8 41:10 55:4 48:3,14,20,24 States 1:1,12,19
25:6,15 13:22 14:3,6,7 setting 37:16 49:5 57:23 2:6 7:24 8:10
26:4 18:11 22:13,22 38:7 Souter's 22:14 8:14 19:20
40:2,5 23:3,11,16,24 severe 48:4 49:15 36:22 50:7
46:22 24:3 28:23 shared 50:23 southeast 52:16 51:11,18,21
49:11,21 29:2,6,11,22 shareholders special 26:22 52:6,13,16
57:2,8 31:7 32:16 53:9 42:24 43:1,2 53:15,21 56:6
35:13 39:1,16 sheets 41:9 specific 28:13 state's 4:23 5:18
30:9 suggested 23:20 28:12,13,20 19:9,10 20:23 true 3:22,25 4:4
34:3 suggestion 55:2 35:22 38:23 20:25 21:13,24 4:12,16 5:3,11
41:23 suggests 35:16 56:7 23:9 25:20 5:14,22,25 6:4
45:11 57:20 taxes 43:6 26:2,7,20 7:7,19 8:4 9:7
50:14 suing 8:16 taxing 3:14 28:25 29:15 9:24 10:1
16:4,4,6 summation 46:2 32:23 47:24 30:25 32:7 13:11,14,19,25
46:8 54:6 taxpayers 40:22 33:10 34:18,24 15:22 18:9,22
31:16 55:13 43:3 35:22 36:19 19:2,14 22:11
sums 33:19 teacher 33:18 37:14,14 38:8 24:7 25:11,12
support 17:11 teeth 20:22 38:15 39:1,7 25:16,20,21,23
supporting 1:20 Tegarden 4:19 39:11 40:17,18 27:6,10 29:9
43:1 2:7 19:21 25:4 40:22,23,24 29:12,13,17,17
54:3,18 suppose 10:3 tell 12:11 25:25 43:1,24 44:2 29:20,25 30:18
12:2 50:8 45:19,22 47:1 31:8,15 35:15
supposed 29:7 telling 18:24 47:18,25 48:9 56:18 57:1,9
40:4 sure 7:7 8:7 terminal 34:4 52:9,14,24 try 56:4
17:13 18:11 55:20 54:4 55:8,15 trying 38:20
40:4 terms 55:5 57:23 58:7,8 58:3
Surface 53:7 test 12:10,10 thoroughly turn 33:11
55:16 suspicion 52:21 54:15,20 thought 13:13 38:5
38:11,23 system 35:22 testimony 5:7,9 40:5 45:1 48:3 two 11:19 26:11
27:2 34:3 48:3,8,15 54:8
4:10 13:1 take 5:7,8 6:17 Thank 3:9 19:16 three 4:2 21:9 45:12
58:6 20:14,21 38:10 56:3 58:13,14 thumb 57:15 41:25
44:8 51:8,9 47:14 50:18 53:23 57:21
14:21 talking 15:13 4:14,25 5:4,10 transportation ultimate 12:21
58:15,17 32:3 48:14 6:15,16 7:1,23 4:5 53:8 ultimately 19:7
tasked 5:2 9:17,19,20 trial 41:19 20:24
tax 3:19 12:3 17:1 18:12 trouble 35:13 35:10 41:2
vacate 58:12 56:18 57:1,9 wasn't 24:21 year 6:18,20
7:18 8:22 9:21 valued 36:25 way 6:9,13 7:5 39:8 50:13
14:16,21 16:19 31:1 56:8 18:24 25:25 58:6
45:2,6,8 37:17,20 41:9 variables 4:2 50:2 54:19 $11.2 56:9
43:18 44:12,23 35:7 57:18 $12 39:21,22
46:1 46:13,23 48:2 variant 21:22 ways 16:22 $12.2 9:8
48:18 52:6 variation 18:25 weaker 30:15 $12.9 56:9
53:2 54:23 18:25 20:15 weighing 21:14 $3 4:20
52:4,15 55:5 57:17,21 50:1 weight 29:17 $4 4:20 8:21
55:12 valuations 20:1 varies 6:7 went 36:13 $5 52:6
25:16 44:18 variety 20:11 Western 46:11 $7.1 56:11
19:20 4:1,4,16 5:3,11 various 14:7 we're 9:5 14:25
6:23 7:6,14,19 vary 19:3,4 we've 53:19
10:2 12:14 vastly 14:22 wide 20:4 56:13 1 6:18 28:10
15:25 17:19 view 22:5 43:10 29:20 26:14
18:10,22 19:2 43:14 44:10 words 34:6 57:4 10:04 1:13 3:2
16:9,19 19:2,14 20:5 vigorous 33:7 work 13:5 41:9 10501(b)(1) 4:10
35:8 36:2 21:14 22:4,6 vindicate 20:3 44:24 50:9 11:04 58:16
38:14 22:10,11 23:23 Virginia's 46:12 57:18 11501(b)(1) 3:11
39:8 25:12,12,17,21 virtually 9:6 working 36:6 12 8:12 25:22
48:6 25:23 27:7,10 37:12 26:7,20 49:23
52:7 27:22,24 28:19 W works 10:17 12.3 4:18
29:9,9,12,14 Wall 36:7 50:9 12.4 20:6
23:13 29:25 30:1,5,5 27:3 37:21 worries 16:4,6 15 7:24 8:3
31:8 30:12,17,19,22 38:13,13,15,21 worth 8:21 36:6 37:20
55:22 37:5 38:12 57:20,24 58:9 24:17 36:7 1976 8:10
2
43:7 45:8 46:4 wrong 34:1
2:8 28:6 X 20 15:7 16:1
53:13
46:5 52:25
56:7
1:10
56:6
6:25
2:9 56:20
2:4 42:12
44:17
40:25
19:24 20:13
53:11
8:10
52:6
1:10 12:14
16:2,7,11
4:19
8:10 49:18
2:12
3:15 20:6
26:6,19
34:4 55:20
5:4 10:10
4:18
26:7
4:19
