IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
LAKHDAR BOUMEDIENE, ET :
AL. :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 06-1195
GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT :
OF THE UNITED STATES, ET :
AL.; :
and :
KHALED A. F. AL ODAH, NEXT :
FRIEND OF FAWZI KHALID :
ABDULLAH FAHAD AL ODAH, :
ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 06-1196
UNITED STATES, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, December 5, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:01 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioners.
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 4
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 32
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 72
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:01 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in case 06-1195, Boumediene v. Bush, and
case 06-1196, Al Odah v. United States.
Mr. Waxman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH W. WAXMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Petitioners in these cases have three
things in common. First, all have been confined at
Guantanamo for almost six years, yet not one has ever
had meaningful notice of the factual grounds of
detention or a fair opportunity to dispute those grounds
before a neutral decision-maker.
Two, under the decision below, they have no
prospect of getting that opportunity.
And three, each maintains, as this Court
explained in Rasul, that he is quote "innocent of all
wrongdoing." Now the government contends that these men
are detainable, and the facts of these 37 cases differ,
and it may well that be that an adjudicatory process
that preserves the core features of common law habeas
would reveal perhaps that some of these Petitioners are
lawfully detainable. But limited DTA review of the
structurally flawed CSRT process cannot provide any
reliable examination of the Executive's asserted basis
for detaining these Petitioners, let alone an adequate
substitute for traditional habeas review.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought that we
ruled in the Hamdi case that procedures quite similar to
those under the DTA were adequate for American citizens?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, with respect, Mr. Chief
Justice, what you ruled -- as I understand what the
plurality held in Hamdi was that so long as there was a
process accompanying detention, that provided for
meaningful notice of the factual grounds for detention,
a meaningful opportunity to present evidence in response
to that before a neutral tribunal with the assistance of
counsel, that determination would certainly be entitled
to substantial deference by a habeas court; and we don't
dispute that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that --
MR. WAXMAN: That's not what they got.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So our judgment in
this case depends upon whether we agree with you or the
government that the procedures available under the DTA
are meaningful under Hamdi?
MR. WAXMAN: It -- I think your decision in
this case, the question -- the principal question we
think is presented by the case is whether or not the DTA
review of the CSRT procedures that occurred in this case
adequately substitute for the writ of habeas corpus.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, how could
that be, because the D.C. Circuit never got to that
question? The D.C. Circuit, as I understand it, ruled
that there was no access to habeas, end of case.
So the D.C. Circuit never examined the
procedure under the DTA, did it?
MR. WAXMAN: No. The district court -- the
two district judges sitting in habeas went to the merits
of the case, and Judge Green did evaluate the
procedures. The D.C. Circuit held that the
Constitution, neither the Suspension Clause nor the Due
Process Clause, applies to these people. And therefore
it didn't reach the merits. But --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So shouldn't we, if we
agree with you, that there is authority in the
D.C. Circuit, send it back to them to make that
determination whether habeas being required, this is an
adequate substitute.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, I'm not saying that this
Court couldn't do that. It certainly could do that.
But one of the principal -- the principal guarantee of
habeas corpus through the centuries has been a speedy --
the remedy of speedy release for somebody who is
unlawfully being held in executive detention.
These 37 men have been held in isolation for
6 years, and it is manifest on the record in this case.
There's no doubt about how the CSRT has proceeded.
There is little doubt about the circumscribed nature of
the D.C. Circuit's review. The D.C. Circuit has already
held that the Constitution doesn't apply.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your argument
wouldn't be any different with respect to the
availability of habeas if these people were held for one
day, would it? We don't look at the length of detention
in deciding whether habeas is available, do we?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, I want to give a
qualified disagreement with your hypothetical, because
it's entirely clear that, as I think members of this
Court have indicated and that habeas traditionally
indicates, there may be military exigencies, there may
be a limited time period in which it is inappropriate
for a habeas court to rule. And moreover -- if there --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, let me just
stop you there. Do you want this Court to rule on
whether or not there are military exigencies that
require the holding and detention of these enemy
combatants?
MR. WAXMAN: No, what I was referring to
were sort of the hypothetical of battlefield -- somebody
is captured -- you know -- and the next day or the next
week from the battlefield, does he or she have the right
to -- does a habeas court have constitutional
jurisdiction. Putting aside-
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Putting aside the
battlefield hypothetical, we're talking about
Guantanamo. Your argument is that somebody held one day
in Guantanamo has the right to habeas. So the extent of
detention is irrelevant to your assertion.
MR. WAXMAN: I don't think so, with respect.
I think -- I don't think -- I think it is appropriate
for a habeas -- if the Executive says we have detained
this person, we believe this person is an enemy
combatant who may be lawfully detained under the AUMF,
we have an administrative process that is fair, that
will -- that will determine the facts. You should stay
your hand to allow that procedure to occur. Of course,
that is appropriate, so long as the procedure is
meaningful and speedy. That's what we do in immigration
cases.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But your basic position
has to rest on Guantanamo Bay being just like if we had
the detainees in, say, the Everglades. But do you
concede that if these people had never been brought to
the United States, if the facility were in, say,
Germany, that these detainees would have no access to
habeas, no access to our courts?
MR. WAXMAN: I wouldn't agree with that for
two reasons. First of all, I think these people are in
a place that is even -- that is under even more complete
control and jurisdiction of our national Executive than
they would be in the Everglades, because there are no
Federalism constraints here. Our national government
supplies the only law.
And if they were detained in Germany, the
question would be A, are they being detained by the
United States or by some multinational coalition force
as was the case, for example, in Hirota.
B, are there other laws, or can they invoke
the jurisdiction of another court? And the answer to
that question would depend upon the terms of our --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Who says that -- let's
consider first the basis on which the court of appeals
decided this case.
They decided it -- in Rasul, we had held
that the habeas statute extended to Guantanamo, and that
those people who had filed their suits before the
statute, at least, could bring a suit.
Congress acted. And enacted a new habeas
statute which makes it very clear that the habeas
statute, at least, does not apply to these people in
Guantanamo.
Your assertion here is that there is a
common law constitutional right of habeas corpus that
does not depend upon any statute.
Do you have a single case in the 220 years
of our country or, for that matter, in the five
centuries of the English empire in which habeas was
granted to an alien in a territory that was not under
the sovereign control of either the United States or
England.
MR. WAXMAN: The answer to that is a
resounding yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is -- what are they?
MR. WAXMAN: They are the cases that were
discussed and cited by the majority opinion in Rasul,
and we have -- we have added other ones to them, but
it's showing --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What cases -- what case in
particular do you think in Rasul?
MR. WAXMAN: I think the opinion of two of
the three law lords in the Earl of Crewe, which the
majority cited as In re Sekgome. It is certain -- the
government concedes it was the case in Mwenya. It was
true in the Indian cases. And, in fact, as we point out
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mwenya involved an English
-- an English subject, not an alien.
MR. WAXMAN: Indeed, it did.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The question there is an
alien.
MR. WAXMAN: Indeed, it did, and the
government --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it's totally irrelevant.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, no -- let me take a shot
at convincing you that it's not totally irrelevant. The
Crown Counsel in that case, in his brief, stated
forthrightly that subjecthood or citizenship didn't
matter and, in fact, in the very minority opinion that
the government relies on in its brief here in Earl of
Crewe, Lord Justice Kennedy specifically said that the
citizenship is irrelevant. It isn't and wasn't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: In both of those cases, it
was a citizen, nonetheless. In 220 years of our
history, or five centuries of the -- do you have a
single case in which it was not a citizen of England or
a citizen of the United States in which a common-law
writ of habeas corpus issued to a piece of land that was
not within the sovereign jurisdiction?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, the Court majority in
Rasul cites a case involving the Isle of Jersey, the
Channel Islands. None of those were within the
sovereign courts' --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They were not regarded as
part of the crown's dominion, but they were part of the
crown's sovereign territory.
MR. WAXMAN: I'll take one more chance,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay, try them. I mean,
line them up.
(Laughter.)
MR. WAXMAN: Okay. Here they go. In the
Indian cases -- I mean, first of all, let's say that
citizenship was not a notion at common law. The
question was subjecthood, and subjecthood was a very
ill-defined term that had no fixed parameters, as our
reply brief points out.
Certainly many of the petitioners in the
Indian cases that we cited -- and in fact that Sir John
Chambers decided -- were not Englishmen or people who
would have been otherwise considered --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the cases were decided
under a statute that applied in India, not under --
under the common law.
And the writ did not come from England; the
writ came from English courts in India under a statute.
And we decided that in Rasul. I mean, you want to do
that in Rasul, that's fine. But you are appealing to a
common law right that somehow found its way into our
constitution without, as far as I can discern, a single
case in which the writ ever to a non-citizen.
MR. WAXMAN: Justice Scalia, as Lord
Mansfield explained in the King v. Cowle, and both sides
are citing to it -- even if the writ -- even with
respect to the persons detained outside the English
realm, the relevant question was, is this person under
the subjection of the crown? Not what is the
subjecthood or citizenship of this person? And in fact
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the
relevance to your -- this line of reasoning to the
recent enactment by Congress of section 1005(g), which
says that the base at Guantanamo is not part of the
United States? There is a judgment by the political
branches that we don't exercise sovereignty over the
leasehold, and it seems to me that, if we're going to
adhere to our habeas corpus cases, we would have to
reject that determination.
MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, let me
answer that question directly and then if I may finish
my answer to Justice Scalia.
We don't contend that the United States
exercises sovereignty over Guantanamo Bay. Our
contention is that at common law, sovereignty (a) wasn't
the test, as Lord Mansfield explained, and (b) wasn't a
clear-cut determine -- there weren't clear-cut
sovereignty lines in those days. Our case doesn't
depend on sovereignty. It depends on the fact that,
among other things, the United States exercises --
quote -- "complete jurisdiction and control over this
base." No other law applies.
If our law doesn't apply, it is a law-free
zone.
JUSTICE ALITO: So the answer to
Justice Ginsburg's question, it wouldn't matter where
these detainees were held so long as they are under U.S.
control. If they were held on a U.S. military base
pursuant to a standard treaty with another country, if
they were in Afghanistan or in Iraq, the result would be
the same?
MR. WAXMAN: No, I think, Justice Alito, I
want to be as clear about this as I can be. This is a
particularly easy straightforward case, but in another
place, jurisdiction would depend on the facts and
circumstances, including the nature of an agreement with
the resident sovereign over who exercises control. And
I want to come back to that with the Japan and German
example, because I have read the status of forces
agreements there.
Secondly, even if there technically were
jurisdiction, there might very well be justiciability
issues under the circumstances of the sort that
Justice Kennedy addressed in his concurrence in Rasul;
that is, there may be circumstances and temporal
conditions in which, under the separation of powers, it
would be a -- a court would deem it inappropriate to
exercise that jurisdiction.
And finally, even if it were appropriate to
exercise the jurisdiction, the review of a habeas court
in the mine run of cases would be anything but plenary
because members of enemy armed forces and enemy aliens
within the meaning of the Alien Enemy Act are
detainable. Period. Now, with respect to --
JUSTICE ALITO: What if, in a future war,
many of the soldiers and the opposing Army don't wear
uniforms? What if it's a war like Vietnam and thousands
of prisoners are taken into custody and they are brought
to prisoner-of-war camps in the United States as
occurred during World War II? Every one of them under
your theory could file a habeas petition. Is that
right?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, if they were in the
United States, I think it's clear that they could file a
habeas petition. And, you know, the question about how
Guantanamo relates to that is for this Court. What's
material is that -- I mean we cited to the Court the
Army directives and the Army procedures implementing
Article V of the Geneva Conventions that were used in
Vietnam, which is the only other war we engaged in that
had combatants who weren't in uniforms. They not only
had a hearing that was near the time and near the place
of capture and the right to call witnesses; there's no
evidence that classified information was withheld from
them. And they not only had a right to counsel; the
government provided them counsel, somebody who was their
advocate.
Now, once a determination like that is made,
they may -- if they're detained in the United States --
they may file a habeas petition and the response will be
there is absolutely no reason not to defer to the
adjudication of that tribunal. You have, as I started
with the Chief Justice, you had a fair notice of the
facts, a fair opportunity to challenge them with the
assistance of counsel before a neutral decisionmaker.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So to determine
whether there's jurisdiction, in every case we have to
go through a multi factor analysis to determine if the
United States exercises not sovereignty, which you've
rejected as the touchstone, but sufficient control over
a particular military base? Over the Philippines during
World War II, in Vietnam, and it is going to decide in
some cases whether the control is sufficient and others
whether it isn't?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, I don't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that is a
judgment we the Court would make, not the political
branches who have to deal with the competing
sovereignties in those situations?
MR. WAXMAN: You know, I think -- both sides
try to derive force from the fact that such claims, such
habeas petitions, haven't come forward in floods in the
past.
I think the reason is that, in the past, we
had combat in which -- you know -- I mean in a war of
the conventional sort, soldiers wear uniforms, and more
to the point, the interests of the captured soldier and
the command -- and the capturing officer are aligned.
The captured soldier wants to be treated as a prisoner
of war or released.
The commanding general wants to release
civilians who aren't in the Army or turn them over for
criminal prosecution. That's why, in the Gulf war,
there were 1200 -- roughly, just a few hundred, 1200
Article V field tribunal hearings that were held, of
which almost 900 were released as civilian
non-combatants and the remaining were detained --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, we had 400,000
German prisoners in this country during World War II.
And not a -- you say it's clear in the Vietnam example
that the Chief Justice gave you, it's clear that habeas
would lie. 400,000 of these people. It never occurred
to them.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, first of all, there is
Colepaugh --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And many of them were
civilians, by the way, and not in uniform. Not a single
habeas petition filed.
MR. WAXMAN: There's -- there are Colepaugh,
the Tenth Circuit case and In re: Territo, both of which
we discussed. But more to the point, as I said,
Justice Scalia, there is no doubt that a member of the
German army or somebody who is assisting the German
army -- it would be totally unavailing to file a -- to
file a habeas petition because they are detainable. It
would be like Mr. Ludekey in the United States v.
Ludekey saying --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He claims he wasn't
assisting the German army, just as these people here
claim that they were not attacking U.S. bases.
MR. WAXMAN: They were provided Article V
tribunals that gave them actual notice of the
government's facts and actual opportunity to controvert
it and a determination by military officers who had not
been told that both the commanding general of the
southern command and the Secretary of Defense had
personally reviewed the evidence and determined that
these were enemy combatants; and a habeas court would
simply dismiss.
And a habeas court could simply say whether
we do or don't technically have jurisdiction under
battlefield circumstances or circumstances involving
foreign detainees in a zone of occupation where active
hostilities occur, it is inappropriate under the
separation of powers for us to intervene. But these men
have been held, taken by the United States, thousands of
miles away -- in the case of my six individuals, plucked
from their homes, from their wives and children in
Sarajevo, detained for three months at the United States
request.
JUSTICE ALITO: Your primary position is
that we should order that they be released, is that
correct?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, we've asked that they be
granted habeas relief. We think what that means is that
they should be -- the cases should be returned to the
district courts where their cases are proceeding. The
government has filed its factual returns to the writ.
Judge Green, in the cases pending before her, has
established procedures to protect the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose there had not been
a six-year wait, would it be appropriate then for us
to -- if you prevail -- remand the case to the habeas
court and instruct the habeas court to defer until the
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia has
finished the DTA review proceedings?
MR. WAXMAN: I would argue that the answer
is no for two reasons. The one because there is no
prospect, no prospect that the DTA proceedings will be
conducted with alacrity or certainty; and second of
all --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why should I assume that
the district court in Washington would be any faster
than the court of appeals?
MR. WAXMAN: Here's -- the -- the -- let's
take the cases in front of Judge Green. Judge Leon in
the cases of my client just granted the government's
motion to dismiss. But in all of the cases the
government has filed its factual return under the
procedures, under the long-established habeas procedures
under 2243. It is -- the burden is now on us. She has
already ruled that with respect to secret information or
classified information, here are the safeguards that
will govern, here's how we will work. And it is simply
on us now to adduce and present evidence to try and
over -- to try to shoulder the burden we have.
In the court of appeals, Justice Kennedy,
the government, after two years, has not produced the
record on review in a single case. It has now said --
two years. It has now said that it cannot do so, and
the court of appeals has suggested that what the
government ought to do is hold entirely new CSRT
proceedings.
Now, those proceedings are structurally
flawed. Perhaps this Court could say, look, here's how
it's going to be. First of all, the Constitution does
apply. Second of all, we have to have a hearing in
which the following things occur.
We either in the Court of Appeals under the
All Writs Act or under 28 USC Section 2347C -- the
Petitioners have to have the right to adduce and present
evidence to controvert the government's return which
was -- almost all of the government's evidence was
introduced ex parte, in camera, and with a -- to boot
with a presumption that it is accurate and genuine.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why can't that take place
in the CSRT review proceedings that are pending?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, I don't -- it could if
the military had different procedures to govern the
CSRTs. And our submission is that with respect to these
Petitioners, you've asked to hold aside the six years.
I would say with respect to future detainees, that this
Court could issue a ruling -- well, this Court should
issue a ruling saying for these people if the writ means
anything, the time for experimentation is over. We have
tried and true established procedures. We've got
experienced district judges including a judge who was
the chief judge in the FISA court, who's already
established the rules for maintaining confidentiality of
classified information.
But we are not as a Court saying that there
could not readily be an adequate substitute if the
administrative procedures generated by the Department of
Defense allowed for the process minimums that the Chief
Justice asked me about at the beginning and advocated a
standard that was authorized -- a substantive standard
authorized by the AUMF. DTA review may very well be an
adequate substitute.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is that possible for
your -- let's say your six clients at this point or for
any of the Guantanamo detainees, I guess, because
wouldn't they all run into the problem of -- the
neutrality problem that you raised? The commanding
general, the Secretary of Defense, in effect, have
already said these people belong where they are.
Wouldn't that make it impossible, really, at this stage
of the game to substitute a military procedure?
MR. WAXMAN: I certainly think so. But at a
minimum, Justice Souter, you would have to have the kind
of tribunal that is called for under the uniform code of
military justice.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I understand that.
MR. WAXMAN: Where you don't have the
convening authority exercising command control over the
tribunal officer.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm just wondering whether
assuming you win this case, that would be an appropriate
form of relief. And I'm not sure --
MR. WAXMAN: I don't think it is. I
certainly don't think it would be unless this Court
clarified under the -- I don't know whether this would
fall under the guise of clarification; but specify that
under the circumstances, the deferential review of the
D.C. Circuit in which it presumes accurate and presumes
sufficient -- adequate the evidence which the tribunal
itself presumed accurate would have to fall; that is, a
habeas court would never accord that presumption.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I have a quick question. I
don't want to interfere with his five minutes of
rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll give you your
rebuttal time.
JUSTICE BREYER: Going back to
Justice Scalia's question on the precedent, suppose --
and I'm going to be -- I'd like my mind to be clear on
this. I thought that the question asked was for you to
find an instance where there was no sovereignty of the
country and they issued the writ, and it was turning on
a technical thing. Whether that was how the question
was met or not, what I read here in these different
briefs is in 1759, Lord Mansfield, the case can issue --
a writ of habeas corpus, no doubt the power could issue
it where the place is under the subjection of the crown
of England. Then Lord Sellers in Mwenya said subjection
is fully appropriate to the powers, that's habeas,
irrespective of territorial sovereignty or dominion, in
other words, non-technical.
In our case in Rasul, both the concurring
opinion and the majority opinion say things like the
reach of the writ depends not on formal notions of
territorial sovereignty, but on the practical questions.
Then they both list practical questions.
Now suppose we take that as the definition.
Now, can you find instances where the writ has been
issued by Britain in history to people who were not
citizens and who were not actually held in Britain?
MR. WAXMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: They are --
MR. WAXMAN: I will cite two examples. I
knew that there was one other thing I wanted to try on
Justice Scalia. One is -- and it's referenced in our
footnote -- you know, in 1777 and 1783, Parliament
suspended the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus for
people on the high seas or out of the realm,
specifically directed at U.S. seamen, at American
seamen. And if the writ never extended to American
seamen on the high seas or out of the realm, there would
have been no point in suspending it.
Second of all, the common -- the high
court judges who were administering -- issuing the writ
for the benefit of detainees in India before it became a
sovereign possession were not exercising a statutory
authority, with all due respect to Justice Scalia.
There was a royal charter that granted
those judges the -- all of the common -- the
authority -- common law authorities of the Queen's
bench.
And as the Indian case law explicates,
and Sir John Chambers explains, one of those authorities
was the exercise of the writ of habeas corpus, not
mandamus, outside territories that were no part of the
Realm of England.
Those are the, I think -- I mean there
may be be something in --
JUSTICE BREYER: The Spanish doctor, the
Swedish doctor, the Spanish sailors, the British spy,
they're all in this case.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, in this -- in this
country, In Re Felateau, which was decided only a few
years after the founding, not only was he an enemy
alien; he was granted release under the writ of habeas
corpus because, not being a citizen, he could not be
charged with treason, which was the basis for holding
him.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where -- where was he held?
MR. WAXMAN: I think in Pennsylvania. Maybe
it was --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are you sure he was being
held in Pennsylvania?
MR. WAXMAN: It was the mid-Atlantic.
Excuse me?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you're being held
within the jurisdiction of the United States. I am
still waiting for a single case, other than the Indian
case which you mentioned which was under a statute, a
single case in which an alien that -- in a -- in a
territory not within the Crown, was granted habeas
corpus.
And it's not enough to say there was a
statute that applied on the seas. That's fine. Just
give me one case. There's not a single one in all of
this lengthy history.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, Justice Scalia, you're
asking me to discard the Indian cases, and I've -- I've
mentioned to you the cases that the majority of Indians
in Rasul relied on, the Earl of Crewe and Mwenya. I've
given you the two statutes. I think at this point I
have to plead exhaustion from remedies.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Waxman, this
determination, whether it's sovereignty or subjugation
or control of non-sovereign territory, would, I expect,
have diplomatic consequences. It is, I think, typically
an act of war for one country to assert authority and
control over another country's jurisdiction.
And here we have Section 1005G where
Congress and the President have agreed that Guantanamo
Bay is not part of the United States, and, yet, you
would have this Court issue a ruling saying that it is
subject to the total, complete domination and control,
or whatever the factors are.
What is the reaction of the Cuban government
to be to that?
MR. WAXMAN: My -- I don't think it's in the
record here, but what is in the record are the terms of
the lease. And I don't really take it to be disputed
that Guantanamo is under the complete, utterly
exclusive, jurisdiction and control of the national
government of the United States.
That's in the lease, itself. The courts of
Cuba have so held. They have designated Guantanamo,
quote, "foreign territory" unless and until the United
States in its sole discretion chooses to vacate the
base. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We -- there are --
am I wrong that there are Cuban workers who come on to
the base and work?
MR. WAXMAN: I'm not sure whether there are,
or not, any longer. But unlike -- or if you take --
they are not subject -- and it has never been contended
that they are subject -- to Cuban control with respect
to conduct that is subject to any law of the United
States.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if you have two
of those workers and they get into a fight over
something, one can't sue the other in Cuban courts?
MR. WAXMAN: Absolutely not, and this is the
key difference, I think, going to Justice Alito's
question. Under our established --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What authority --
what authority do you have for that: That such a suit
would not lie in the Cuban court?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, first of all, the terms
of the lease, and, second of all, I -- I don't know that
we cited -- I mean, somebody has cited decisions of the
Cuban Government, the judiciary and its executive, that
they don't exercise any jurisdiction over --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The converse question is:
Could we prosecute a crime committed in Guantanamo by
Cubans? And the answer is yes.
MR. WAXMAN: The answer is certainly yes,
and if I can just make the point about bases elsewhere,
in Germany and Japan, for example, the status of -- this
is the only base, I believe, that -- you know, in
something other than an active war zone, that isn't the
subject of a status-of-forces agreement that very
specifically explicates both the judicial and executive
authority over acts that occur on the base.
And, for example, under our status-of-forces
agreement with Japan, it is entirely clear that if it is
a Japanese citizen or a Japanese national or conduct
that is subject to the laws of Japan, the Japanese
courts have jurisdiction.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're not heartened by
the prospect that the detainees could apply to the Cuban
courts, which would then hand process to the Commanding
General at Guantanamo?
(Laughter.)
MR. WAXMAN: Not particularly. Let's put it
this way: It has not occurred to us yet.
(Laughter).
MR. WAXMAN: I mean, this is in -- this is
in many respects a uniquely straightforward case. I
really didn't mean to be facetious when I said our
national control over Guantanamo is greater than it is
over a place in Kentucky, because there we have -- under
our system of federalism the Federal Government has
limited controls.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought this was
decided in Rasul. That's why I am so puzzled by the
Government's position. I think Justice Kennedy said it
most clearly when he said that, well, in every practical
respect, Guantanamo Bay is U.S. territory; and whatever
Congress recently passed, they can't, as you pointed
out, change the terms of the lease.
MR. WAXMAN: Yes. I think that's right, and
I also think that, although it is correct, as
Justice Scalia pointed out at the outset, that the
decision in Rasul was a decision about the scope of
2241, which has now been amended, and the majority, at
least, rendered a decision on the basis of the statute,
nonetheless, the Court was construing 2241(c)(1), which
is in haec verba with Section 14 of the 1789 act.
There are other provisions of the habeas
statute like the civil war provisions that -- under
which this Court reviews State court convictions and
detentions. But the statute that this Court was
construing in Rasul was identical in language to the one
promulgated in the -- the very first judiciary act of
1789, which this Court has said in Bollman was an
instantiation, a positive enactment of the writ, that
was protected by the Constitution.
And so, while technically, the majority was
issuing a statutory ruling -- and we don't contend
otherwise -- inferentially, its conclusion must extend
to the -- the extent of the writ at common law.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Waxman. We will give you five minutes for rebuttal.
General Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GENERAL PAUL D. CLEMENT,
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
Since this Court's decision in Rasul,
Petitioners' status has been reviewed by a tribunal
modeled on Army Regulation 190-8, and Congress has
passed two statutes addressing Petitioners' rights.
Petitioners now have access to the Article
III courts and have a right to judicial review in the
D.C. Circuit.
That review encompasses preponderance
claims, claims that the military did not follow their
own regulations, and statutory and constitutional
claims.
JUSTICE STEVENS: General Clement, you said
it was modeled after 190-8. Is it identical to 190-8?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Stevens, it is
virtually identical. If you look at pages 50 and 51 of
our brief, you'll see kind of a side-by-side comparison;
and the deviations are ones that, we would submit,
enhance the rights of the detainees in this particular
circumstance.
So they are given a right to a personal
representative, which is not something that Army
Regulation 190-8 provides. They are specifically
provided for the ability to submit documentary evidence.
JUSTICE STEVENS: How is that personal
representative chosen?
GENERAL CLEMENT: The personal
representative is assigned to the individual by the
military.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I mean is that personal
representative also under an obligation to report back
to the military anything that might be unfavorable to
the person he is supposedly representing?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I don't know about
"unfavorable," but I think if there's -- certainly, if
there is material intelligence information, he is to
provide that information.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So he's not -- he is not in
the position of counsel, as we understand the term.
GENERAL CLEMENT: No. We are not trying to
make the point that the personal representative is a
counsel. We're just saying it is something that is
provided above and beyond 190-8 in terms of the
procedure; and there are other particulars as well, like
there is the notice of the charges in the unclassified
summaries that are provided.
Now, there's the complaint on the other side
that the unclassified summaries aren't particular
enough, but it is worth noting that that's something
that is provided here that's not specified by 190-8.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Under 190-8, does the
defendant have a right to counsel?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, they do not, not under
the basic regulations of that. Now, Mr. Waxman
correctly indicated that in a particular instance in
Vietnam, counsel was provided in 190-8 proceedings, but
those are not provided by the basic 190-8 procedures.
And, I think it is worth --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The DTA, see, is
unclear to me, anyway, on this question. You agree that
there is the authority under the DTA, and I assume under
the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in reviewing
those determinations, to order a release?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I -- the way I would
answer that, Mr. Chief Justice, is this: In terms, the
DTA does not provide for an order of release. And we
would certainly have taken the position that, as a first
order, if the D.C. Circuit finds a defect in the CSTR,
we think the proper remedy would be to order a remand
for a new CSTR.
But, certainly, if this Court thinks that
the constitutional line is -- essentially necessitates
that the D.C. Circuit have the authority to order a
release, there is no obstacle to that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: 2243 doesn't specify
the availability of release, either, but it has
certainly been interpreted to authorize that by habeas
courts in this country.
GENERAL CLEMENT: No. And the D.C. Circuit
would have available to it the All Writs Act, and the
D.C. Circuit, in fact, in its Desmoula decision, which
is the decision where the Government has filed an en
banc petition -- that protective order that was issued
there was done pursuant to the All Writs Act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but that --
GENERAL CLEMENT: The D.C. Circuit hasn't
been shy about asserting that authority. And, again, if
that's what was required here, they could use that
authority to order a release.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But doesn't the resort to
the All Writs Act beg the question?
And that is -- I mean the All Writs Act is
there to protect jurisdiction, and the question is
whether there is jurisdiction to release.
And you say there no textual impediment to
it; and, yet, we know -- I forget which brief it was in
-- from one of the briefs the -- the instance of the
prisoner Ali, one of the Chinese -- is it "Uigars"? Is
that how it is pronounced?
GENERAL CLEMENT: "Uigars."
JUSTICE SOUTER: Who was one of what, 12 or
13, who was found not to be an enemy combatant, and the
Government's position there was: Go back and do it
again in front of another tribunal, another panel,
which, in fact, conveniently found that he was.
So the practice of -- of the Government, it
seems to me, has clearly been to deny the right to
release.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I would disagree,
Justice Souter. Let me say a couple of things to that.
One is that I think with respect to the
Uigars, in particular, there was a problem with ordering
release outright. And it is interesting that when Judge
Robertson, the same judge, district court judge, who
decided the Hamdan case, had before him one of the
Uigars in a habeas petition, he recognized that under
habeas he couldn't order release.
And the problem wasn't any kind of inherent
limitation on what he could order in his jurisdiction.
There was just a practical problem, which was --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. It was a practical
problem. But the fact is that the effectiveness of
habeas jurisdiction, for example, in requiring new
trials, and so on, depends upon the ultimate sanction,
which is the authority of the court to let somebody go
if the Government does not comply with a condition.
And the -- the Government practice so far
under the DTA seems quite contrary to that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, again, Justice
Souter, what I would say is simply this: that if what
the Constitution requires to make the DTA to be an
adequate substitute is the power to order release, there
is no obstacle in the text of the DTA to that. And the
All Writs Act is available to allow them to order
release to protect their jurisdiction under the DTA.
And I think that would be a solution to that problem.
Now, I think, more broadly, let me -- let me
say about the DTA and the MCA, it really does represent
the best efforts of the political branches, both
political branches, to try to balance the interest in
providing the detainees in this admittedly unique
situation additional process with the imperative to
successfully prosecute the global war on terror.
JUSTICE BREYER: They get additional
process. The question, I guess, is whether it is an
adequate substitute for having withdrawn the writ of
habeas corpus.
On that question, suppose that you are from
Bosnia, and you are held for six years in Guantanamo,
and the charge is that you helped Al-Qaeda, and you had
your hearing before the CSRT.
And now you go to the D.C. Circuit, and here
is what you say: The CSRT is all wrong. Their
procedures are terrible. But just for purposes of
argument, I concede those procedures are wonderful, and
I also conclude it reached a perfectly good result.
Okay? So you concede it for argument's
sake. But what you want to say is: Judge, I don't care
how good those procedures are. I'm from Bosnia. I've
been here six years. The Constitution of the United
States does not give anyone the right to hold me six
years in Guantanamo without either charging me or
releasing me, in the absence of some special procedure
in Congress for preventive detention.
That's the argument I want to make. I don't
see anything in this CSRT provision that permits me to
make that argument. So I'm asking you: Where can you
make that argument?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I'm not sure that he could
make that argument.
JUSTICE BREYER: Exactly.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I'm not sure he can make
--
JUSTICE BREYER: If he cannot make that
argument, how does this become an equivalent to habeas,
since that happens to be the argument that a large
number of these 305 people would like to make?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Breyer, let
me take it this way, which is, of course, you're getting
to the gravamen of their claim, which is that the DTA
and the review provided in the D.C. Circuit is not an
adequate substitute for habeas review.
And I'll start with the assumption for a
second, which I hope is right, because it seems that
Judge Friendly reached this conclusion -- and it seems
to me the right conclusion -- which is that the base
line is 1789.
And if you compare what these detainees have
under the DTA in terms of judicial review to what would
have been available to them at common law in 1789, it is
not even close.
This is the remarkable liberalization of the
writ, not some retrenchment or suspension of the writ.
These detainees at common law would face not one, but
three obstacles, to getting into court to make these
claims. The first, of course, is the geographical
limits on the reach of the writ. The second, but
equally important, is the line of authority that says
that the writ was simply unavailable to prisoners of
war. And the third problem would be the
well-established common law rule that you can't
controvert the facts as set forth in the return.
So at common law, somebody who took the
incredibly, I think, poor strategic call to concede all
of their legal arguments away and say only: I have a
constitutional claim here to be brought, I don't think
they would have gotten into court with that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But aren't you simply
rearguing Rasul?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Not at all --
JUSTICE SOUTER: We have passed that point;
haven't we?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Not at all,
Justice Souter. And, first of all -- I mean, I take it
your -- your principal objection goes to the
geographical writ point, because I think that the issues
about controverting the facts of the return and the
availability of the writs to prisoners of war is
something that really wasn't -- had any reason to be
before this Court in Rasul.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It -- it -- it wasn't, and
I didn't want to get into the prisoner of war point.
But if you want to get into it, the problem with your
prisoner of war point is the United States is not
treating them as prisoners of war. They have not been
adjudicated prisoners of war, or otherwise, under the
Third Geneva Convention, and that argument on the
Government's part is entirely circular.
GENERAL CLEMENT: With respect, Justice
Souter --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Clement, I
remember in a prior hearing about Guantanamo that the
Government was taking the position firmly that these
detainees were not prisoners of war and, therefore, were
not entitled to the protection of the Geneva
conventions.
So if the Government is maintaining that
position, these people are not prisoners of war, then
the treatment of a prisoner of war is not relevant.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, with respect,
Justice Ginsburg and Justice Souter -- because I think
it gets to the same point -- we are using "prisoner of
war" the way that the common law courts use the term
"prisoner of war."
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is the Geneva Convention
modeled after the Constitution of the United States?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What it means by "prisoner
of war" is the same thing that the Constitution means?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, and -- and -- with
respect, the Framers in 1789 had the benefit of the
three Spanish soldiers and the Schiever case. They
didn't have the benefit of the Geneva Convention.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And the three Spanish
soldiers were -- were ultimately found to be prisoners
of war, And, yet, they had process to get into court.
There was no question of the jurisdiction of an English
court to entertain their claim.
GENERAL CLEMENT: The writ was denied,
Justice Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: The relief was denied.
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, the writ was denied.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That had a hearing under
the writ.
GENERAL CLEMENT: They did not have a
hearing. The writ was --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then how did the court ever
come to the conclusion that, in fact, they were
prisoners of war?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Because it said that -- it
looked at the pleading in the petition. There was no
hearing. It looked at the petition and it said: on
their own showing, they are prisoners of war. They are
denied the writ.
JUSTICE SOUTER: On their -- on their own
showing, but, in fact, the proceeding did not end until
the court had come to that conclusion.
It was not a conclusion that the court
assumed simply on the basis of a Government claim in the
return to the writ.
GENERAL CLEMENT: It didn't even ask for a
return, Justice Souter. I mean -- you know, they
decided the case --
JUSTICE SOUTER: On the basis of a
Government claim formally or informally proffered to the
Court. They -- they came to that conclusion, as you
said, based on the -- on the prisoners' own showing.
But the court certainly -- there is no authority in the
prisoner of war case for saying that if the Government
make as claim that one is a prisoner of war -- contrary
to the Government's prior position, incidentally -- that
that forecloses the possibility of consideration under
the writ -- the petition as filed.
GENERAL CLEMENT: There is authority for
that proposition, Justice Souter. It comes along later
in the World War II cases in Britain. The reason
there's not authority contemporaneous with the 1759
cases is because these courts are operating with the
common-law rule you can't controvert the facts as set
forth in a return. So the petitioners in these cases
wisely didn't make a factual dispute; they made a legal
dispute. And the courts rejected it time and time
again. I thought the Spanish sailors and the Shiver --
I'd like to just offer you that the 1941 authority --
because this question of course, over time, by 1941, the
British courts have relaxed the rule against
controverting the facts of the return, and they
addressed this question about what kind of factual
inquiry is necessary when the government comes back and
says that somebody is an enemy combatant, a prisoner of
war, or, under the Emergency Detention Act of 1939, a
threat to the realm.
And in two cases, Liverridge against
Anderson and Green against Anderson, the law lords, in
1941, say that they are not going to look beyond what
the government has provided in the return. They're not
even, in the Green case, going to ask for an affidavit.
So if you're looking --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, was that because they
were reflecting 1789 practice, or because they were
reflecting the Defense of the Realm Act? I don't know
the answer to that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think it is a pretty
good snapshot of where things were as of 1941.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Unless you can answer my
question, we don't know what the snapshot proves.
GENERAL CLEMENT: They were exercising
habeas jurisdiction.
JUSTICE SOUTER: They were exercising habeas
jurisdiction in a court -- in a polity in which
Parliament is supreme and Parliament had already passed
the Defense of the Realm Act, and I don't -- I mean it.
I don't know the answer to the question I asked you.
But I think unless we have an answer to that, we don't
have a reliable clue as to the understanding of the
English courts at a time that's relevant to our inquiry.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think we do have an
answer, Justice Souter. It is in the Liverridge case,
because there there's a question of interpreting the
Emergency Detention Act. And they basically have a
choice. They can interpret it to allow the detention to
turn exclusively on the subjective belief of the home
secretary, or they can interpret it to reflect an
objective standard. And they choose, over the dissent
of Lord Atkins, they choose purely subject if standard.
So in interpreting a act of Parliament that could have
gone either way they interpreted under the common law
writ to involve no factual inquiry whatsoever. And the
case at common law in 1789 is a fortiori from that
because they would not go beyond the facts as set forth
in the return. And the only response the Petitioners
have to that common law rule is they can point to a
couple of cases where the courts were tempted and did
accede to the temptation to peek beyond the return in
the context of a child custody case or private custody
cases.
But this is a situation --
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought we were here
talking about -- I see that you have a strong argument
and they'll have a strong argument in reply. I think
both are pretty good, how you interpret these cases. I
thought we were talking about what the availability of a
forum in which you can make your argument and they can
make their argument, and that's why I'm back to the
question of this is remedy that's given in the statute
sufficient to allow you to make your argument and their
to make their argument? And what you said was, when I
thought I produced an example of an instance they wanted
to argue quite strongly, and you said no, they couldn't.
Then you said well, neither could they in
England. Well, that I wonder. That's where I'm back
to. After all, England doesn't have a written
constitution. So it is hardly surprising if they
concede everything away in England, they're not going to
be able to make any argument. There's nothing left.
But let's image in England you had a statute and that
statute said the government cannot hold an alien in
Beckawannaland for six years without either charging
them or releasing them. Or except for -- and we have
some very detailed preventive detention. Suppose there
was a statute like that. And then our friends in
England in whatever year conceded every argument but
that one.
Now, are you going to tell me now that the
habeas courts would have said we won't even listen to
your argument?
GENERAL CLEMENT: As Justice Souter pointed
out -- I mean, if you assume that the statute also said
any review for that claim should be in the court of
appeals, not in the traditional --
JUSTICE BREYER: Correct. And you told me
in this statute the court of appeals will not listen to
that argument. And as I read the statute, I agree with
you. Because I can find no place where they could make
that argument since it does not concern how well this
tribunal did, nor does it concern the constitutionality
of the procedures of the tribunal.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Breyer, as I
say, I think that if you accept that there would be some
deference to the ability to bring statutory claims, I
don't know why that deference would be limited to the
substance and not to the forum.
And Congress here has spoken. It has
spoken. The political branch has spoken. They have
struck a balance. They've given these detainees better
rights and access to administrative and judicial review.
Anyone --
JUSTICE ALITO: If the Court holds that the
DTA is not an adequate substitute for habeas, what will
happen? Will these Petitioners then have access to all
of the procedures that normally apply in a habeas
proceeding under 2241? The same right to discovery,
subpoena witnesses, access to classified information,
presence in court?
GENERAL CLEMENT: The government will
certainly take the position that they are not entitled
to those things. Presumably the Petitioners will be
arguing they are entitled to those things.
The answers to those questions will be
unclear because the review provided by the DTA and the
habeas statute, if it is applied in this context, either
way, whatever the vehicle for that judicial review, it
will be unprecedented. And there will be difficult
questions that will need to be worked out, and I don't
understand why --
JUSTICE SCALIA: General Clement, if we had
to either charge or release these people, what would
they be charged with? Waging war against the United
States? Is there a statute that prevents non-citizens
from waging war against the United States and provides
criminal penalties?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Not as such,
Justice Scalia. Now, of course, we might have an
argument as to some of these individuals, that they
engaged in unlawful --
JUSTICE STEVENS: As I understand the
government's position, these people are not in uniform,
so they're not an under the law of war. They have all
committed murder, not just fighting a war. That's your
theory, I think. They are all committed war crimes.
Those that were caught on the battlefield, I mean. I'm
talking about those.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Right, and the ones that
actually killed somebody would have committed murder.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's right. And they
are not prisoners of war under the law of war, because
they were not in uniform.
GENERAL CLEMENT: They don't qualify for
prisoner of war status, but just to be clear I think
certainly when the British cases are talking about --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm talking about common
law. I mean under the law of war, the common law of
war. They were not prisoners of war.
GENERAL CLEMENT: They would not qualify for
prisoner of war status. They're enemy combatants --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Their engaging in war-like
acts would be the crime of murder or the crime of
assault and so forth and so on. That's how I understand
your theory in one of these prosecutions is that not --
GENERAL CLEMENT: That would be our theory
in those cases --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I mean it is your theory?
GENERAL CLEMENT: That would be our theory
in those cases -- and it is our theory in those cases
we've chosen to prosecute --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right.
GENERAL CLEMENT: -- in the military
commissions, but there are other individuals with
respect to whom we don't have the right kind of evidence
in order to go with the full-blown military commission
trial, but we still have the option that this Court
recognized in Kirin and Hamdi and most particularly in
Kirin, not just to try people who are unlawful
combatants for their unlawful combatancy, but also to
hold them as we would hold anybody else who was captured
as preventative detention.
JUSTICE STEVENS: For the duration of
hostilities, if you can show that they are enemies.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think if we can
show that they were enemy combatants, that's exactly
right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And you are operating today
under a broader concept, as I understand it, of "enemy
combatant"?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Than? I'm sorry? Broader
than what?
JUSTICE SOUTER: Than was indeed the case
for example in our early litigation, let alone at the
time of Kirin.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well two things,
Justice Souter. One thing is that with respect to the
definition that the military commissions -- I'm sorry --
that the C-Cert 7 apply, that is a broader definition, I
would quickly add though that with respect to the
majority of individuals -- I mean you have the
Petitioners from Bosnia that Mr. Waxman represents, but
most of these people were seized in Pakistan and
Afghanistan, and so the situation is not that different.
And obviously we would take the position to the extent
you have some concerns about the breadth of the
definition, what this Court -- what the plurality said
in Hamdi in footnote 1 gets it exactly right. The way
to deal with those concerns is in the adjudication of
particular cases which can take place under the DTA or
can take place in habeas.
And again I think the burden --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But how can -- and this
again, maybe I should know the answer to this, but I
don't. How could that be litigated under the DTA?
Doesn't any proceeding under the DTA simply have to
accept the statutory definition?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, it does not. I mean
it's a regulatory --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You mean -- you're saying
if it gets to the court of appeals, they can raise the
constitutional claim that the definition is broader than
constitutionally could be enforced. Is that what you're
saying?
GENERAL CLEMENT: That was in my points,
Justice Souter. So I think that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I didn't understand that
point when you were having your colloquy with
Justice Breyer, either. I thought you were going to
answer to Justice Breyer, that the court of appeals does
have the right to determine whether to the extent the
Constitution and the laws of the United States are
applicable, whether such standards and procedures, such
as CSRT, are -- - to make the determination -- are
consistent with the Constitution --
GENERAL CLEMENT: Yes, Justice --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- that's provided in the
MCA.
GENERAL CLEMENT: It absolutely is. I think
Justice Breyer's hypothetical was cleverly crafted,
though, to take that off the table.
JUSTICE BREYER: It wasn't cleverly
redrafted. I wanted to say that the people I'm thinking
of are not challenging those procedures. What they say
is you could have the best procedure in the world, and
they're totally constitutional -- we'll assume that --
they're assuming it. They're not going to concede it.
They're assuming it.
On that assumption, we still think that
Congress, the President, the Supreme Court under the
law, cannot hold us for six years without either trying
us, releasing us, or maybe confining us under some
special statute involving preventive detention and
danger which has not yet been enacted.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the statute --
JUSTICE BREYER: They are arguing it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the statute talks
about standards. Why can't that question that
Justice Breyer raised be reached by the Court of Appeals
under the CSRT review hearings when it determines the
constitutional adequacy of the standards, or am I
missing something?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think, again, that
Justice Breyer's hypothetical, as I understood it, sort
of assumed away the adequacy of all of the standards and
just said: Putting all of that to one side, I have some
other constitutional claim.
And I'm just not so sure that habeas ever
allowed you to sort of bring every claim that you
possibly wanted to; and I think the -- what I -- the way
I read this Court's Hamdi decision is what was
envisioned on a habeas case in a case where Army
Regulation 190-8, which, of course, the plurality cited,
was complied with. It was in that case: The habeas
petition in court would take that as a starting point,
and that you wouldn't necessarily be able to say: Look,
it was nice that we had that proceeding, but put that to
one side. I have another claim.
I don't think the court, even in habeas,
would have envisioned that that would go forward.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just one more question on
that point: Would the Court of Appeals in -- under the
MCA have the authority to question the constitutionality
of the definition of noncombatant -- of unlawful
combatant?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Absolutely,
Justice Kennedy. That would be available to them in the
D.C. Circuit.
JUSTICE STEVENS: General Clement, I thought
your answer to Justice Breyer -- and maybe I'm missing
something -- would be that there is a third alternative
which he didn't consider, namely: That these are
combatants picked up on the battlefield, and they may be
detained indefinitely without proving they committed a
crime.
And that is your position, I think.
GENERAL CLEMENT: That is our position. I
mean I want to give Justice Breyer's hypothetical its
due. I mean there might be claims that you could have
brought, hypothetical claims that you could have brought
at some level, and that the DTA does --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You have a hypothetical
claim that a particular prisoner says: I was kidnapped
by people who were not in the United States Army and
sold for a bounty. And I am -- I just happened to be
there when I got kidnapped.
And then there is a genuine question of fact
as to whether the fact that they may have been sold in
that manner justifies detention, which is a different
question entirely from whether they committed a
violation under the law of war.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Absolutely,
Justice Stevens. But that question, of course, can be
considered by the D.C. Circuit on review, because
they're specifically entitled to a preponderance review
in the D.C. Circuit. So that's a claim that they
clearly could bring.
They can also bring the statutory and
constitutional claims to the standards and procedures,
and they can make claims that the procedures that are
set forth in the CSRTs are not provided. And I think,
again, if you compare that to what they would have had
at the common law, and you ask the question --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me interrupt again,
and I know your argument. But with respect to those
claims, do you make the argument in your brief that some
evidence is enough to refute that claim, or do you say
it is a preponderance standard?
GENERAL CLEMENT: It's a preponderance
standard, and that's what is set forth in the statute.
And, again, that's something where Congress specifically
got involved in the CSRTs in a way that I think is
different from the Hamdan case and Congress's
involvement with the Military Commissions. In the
Military Commissions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose any
challenges to the adequacy of the standards, or
whatever, are the sort of things that would be raised in
the D.C. Circuit. And we don't know what that's going
to look like yet, because the D.C. Circuit hasn't had an
opportunity to rule on those.
GENERAL CLEMENT: That's exactly right,
Mr. Chief Justice. And that's why, as we say in the
brief -- I mean there's a sense in which this is really
a facial challenge.
I mean, in order for them to prevail with
the argument that DTA review is an inadequate
substitute, they really have to say that it is
inherently an inadequate substitute. That no matter
kind of how many times the D.C. Circuit cuts the
Petitioner a break --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't the main issue the
fact that it has taken six years to have the issue
resolved -- "relevant" --
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I mean --
JUSTICE STEVENS: They say they have
been unlawfully detained for six years from the
beginning. And isn't that delay relevant to the
question of whether they have been provided such a
wonderful set of procedures?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Stevens, I
think the delay is going to be relevant to whether or
not courts should expedite hearings, and the like. But
I don't think it should cloud the basic constitutional
question before this Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The procedures that
are before us under the DTA and the MCA, of course,
weren't available for the whole six-year period, were
they?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, of course not. And I
think it is worth recognizing that Congress legislated
in this area not in year one, and then six years have
gone by. Congress legislated with these particular
procedures and this level of review in years four and
five.
And the fact that they didn't immediately
take effect, I think, is not an accident. It is a
product of the fact that Congress in this area was
providing unprecedented review.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General --
GENERAL CLEMENT: And, of course, when you
do something unprecedented, new questions will arise.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think, to go back to
the beginning, my notion of your position was you never
get to that question: Is the review of these procedures
adequate in the D.C. Circuit, because there is no
authority, period, for the D.C. Circuit to engage -- to
grant what is before us is if the -- our applications
for a writ of habeas corpus.
You say that's out the door. They might
bring some other proceedings. I thought that was your
position.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think that is our
position, Justice Ginsburg. But our position is they
want -- they styled something -- they filed something
called a habeas petition. Congress subsequently has
come in and said: The way we are going to deal with
this is we are going to remove jurisdiction for that
habeas petition, and we're going to allow you to file a
DTA review provision -- a DTA review petition.
Now, their argument is that Congress can't
force that choice on them because this is an inadequate
substitute for habeas. The Suspension Clause applies in
Guantanamo; and therefore, the DTA is effectively
unconstitutional to the extent it prevents us with
proceeding with our habeas petition.
Now, there are a variety of ways this Court
could reject that claim. It seems to me that the most
straightforward way, though, is to simply ask the
question: If the level of review provided by the DTA in
the DTA petition were provided by statute in 1789 or
even 1941, for that matter, would it have been seen as a
liberalization of the writ, or a contraction and
suspension of the writ?
And I think it is very, very clear that if
this statute had passed, if this kind of review was
provided in 1789 or in 1941, it would have been greeted
as a remarkable -- remarkable liberalization of the writ
as it had then been understood.
And I think we are in the situation where
these individuals, for the first time, are really
allowed this kind of access to the court system.
And when that happens, there are going to be
difficult questions. We have difficult questions about
what the record on review is. We have difficult
questions about the extent to which classified
information should come in.
But all of those difficult questions are
going to be waiting for us if we go back to the habeas
courts, because the same kind of issues --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, on that -- and you
just mentioned remedy. Suppose, contrary to what you
hope for, that the Court were to say that this is -- we
have a minute or two.
Suppose they were to say that this is an
unconstitutional suspension of the writ, and that the
remedy here written in the statute is not adequate in
respect to many claims that might be made.
On that assumption, the habeas would lie.
Now, it has been six years, and habeas is supposed to be
speedy.
And, yet, people have serious arguments,
anyway, that they are being held for six years without
even having those arguments heard.
Is there anything in your opinion that this
Court could say by way of remedy that could get the
D.C. Circuit or the others to decide this and the CSRT
claims, there are 305 people to do this quickly within a
period of months rather than six more years? And if so,
what?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I mean, obviously lower
courts take anything this Court says very, very
seriously. So, if this Court makes it clear --
JUSTICE BREYER: Are we faced with this
problem, and I don't want to put you right on the spot,
what approximately would you say in respect to this?
Because it is a serious problem.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I mean -- let me --
if I could, I would answer it as to what this Court
should say about what the D.C. Circuit should do on DTA
review. I prefer to discuss the opinion where we win
rather than the opinion where we lose.
As to that opinion, the courts -- the lower
courts should be instructed to with due cognizance for
the fact these individuals have been detained six years
and this is the process that has been provided in order
to decide whether or not that continuing custody is
lawful, they should expedite this to the greatest extent
possible.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How can we fit your
position when we have no jurisdiction here?
JUSTICE SOUTER: If you win, we never get to
these issues.
GENERAL CLEMENT: With respect if you win --
if we win, you still write an opinion saying that we
win, and that opinion can still say everything --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Our opinion says have a
nice day, everybody.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOUTER: You can't win without
reversing the Court of Appeals.
GENERAL CLEMENT: You can certainly affirm
on alternative grounds.
JUSTICE SOUTER: If we affirmed on
alternative grounds, leaving the court of appeals'
reasoning as it stands, these interesting questions that
you referred to will never arise.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I don't think that's
right, Justice Souter. There is active litigation going
on in the D.C. Circuit over basically these questions
and how this litigation is going to take place. And if
this Court in affirming on -- begrudgingly affirming and
directing the D.C. Circuit to move with all appropriate
dispatch, that's going to be read just as carefully and
taken just as seriously if it's an affirmance than if
it's a vacate or a reversal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that because the
withdrawal of jurisdiction does not apply to review of
the proceedings in the D.C. Circuit that's provided
under the statute? In other words, your argument that
the habeas jurisdiction doesn't extend doesn't reach the
review of the adequacy of the DTA proceedings?
GENERAL CLEMENT: That's exactly right.
That's exactly right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why would they litigate
that adequacy if they have determined in advance that
substantively the individuals who are petitioning have
absolutely no rights?
GENERAL CLEMENT: They hadn't decided that,
Justice Souter. That might have been a problem back in
Rasul. But now whatever the answer to the question of
whether the Constitution provides rights in Guantanamo,
they have rights. They have the statutory right to
preponderance review. They have a statutory right to
have the military follow its own procedures. And they
have lots of arguments in the lower courts trying to
take advantage of those rights that they have.
So there will be a meaningful procedure in
the D.C. Circuit --
JUSTICE SOUTER: At the end of the day, the
only thing, as I understand it, that could possibly be
adjudicated would be the question of formal adherence to
procedure or not. There would never be an adjudication
that ever went to the merits because the merits issue,
as I understand it, is already -- I mean merits of
relief -- have already been prior admitted by the
existing determination of the circuit in this case.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Souter, I'm
not sure that this Court -- I understand your question,
I believe, which is that the D.C. Circuit, I think,
almost unavoidably reading this Court's Rasul decision
and reading it as a statutory rather than a
constitutional holding, has stuck with its circuit
precedent and said that there aren't constitutional
rights here. That is going to be true unless this Court
reverses it in habeas or in the DTA review.
It would seem particularly strange that if
that's the real problem that this Court would somehow
decide, well, you know, we really think the DTA is an
adequate substitute, but the only way we can correct
this other mistake, in our view, that the D.C. Circuit
is laboring under is to rule against the government.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You were arguing that the
question of the adequacy of the substitution should, in
fact, be litigated in a plenary fashion in the Court of
Appeals or the district court for that matter?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No. I think that's the
issue before this Court now. And this Court, for
example --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I thought you said a moment
ago that there were all of these interesting questions
that could be explored if there was a remand?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I'm sorry, Justice Souter,
I may have misspoke.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Maybe I misunderstood you.
GENERAL CLEMENT: The interesting questions
that I think are left on the remand, no matter what, are
issues about whether or not based on the Abraham
declaration that the military followed their own
procedures for assembling the record below, or whether
the military followed its own procedures for providing
exculpatory evidence. Those are all questions that
aren't questions that require the answer to the question
of whether Eisentrager is still good law --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You are talking about in
effect about evidentiary procedural questions?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I mean --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're talking about
taking the statute, Congress's statute that set up this
system with limited review in the D.C. Circuit and
saying that's it. The D.C. Circuit never got to that
question because it said the acts that these people are
trying to bring habeas doesn't exist. The only thing
that they have, the only remedy they have is the one
that Congress provided. And it seems to me the only
question before us is whether there is jurisdiction in
the court of appeals to decide that threshold issue.
They tossed it out and didn't reach -- didn't say one
word about the adequacy of the procedures or of the
things that you're talking about.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think that's right,
Justice Ginsburg. I want to be clear that my position
is that an alternative ground for affirmance, which
would allow this Court to address some of those
questions, is that the D.C. Circuit was right to say
that the DTA review, that the habeas petition should be
dismissed. The reason they were right is because the
DTA is an adequate substitute for habeas.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That would be -- we would
be deciding that as a court of first view because they
didn't decide that? You don't need an adequate
substitute for habeas because you have no right to
habeas.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think that's a fair
observation, but obviously this Court --
JUSTICE STEVENS: General Clement --
GENERAL CLEMENT: In the context -- I mean
this has been fully briefed in, and in the context of
where the Court uses an alternative ground for
affirmance, it would not be a novel situation, I don't
think.
JUSTICE STEVENS: General Clement, your
suggested reason why they're right is quite different
from the reason they actually gave. They did not reach
the question of the adequacy of these procedures.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think that's a fair
point, Justice Stevens, though I would say that really
their reasoning encapsulates one of the three reasons
why at common law they were right.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but they did not
reach this very important part of the whole case. And,
Of course, the substitute procedures here are not nearly
the same as those in our prior cases of where we
sustained the 2255 and district here.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Oh, that's right,
Justice Stevens, but in fairness, in those situations
you were dealing with sort of substitutes for core
habeas under situations where they're was no dispute
that there was a robust right to habeas at common law,
and so here you first deal with the situation of -- all
right, the baseline is, as Judge Friendly suggests,
1789, is this an adequate substitute? And that even if
somehow -- and I don't know how you get past that --
then you I think still might ask the question that this
Court asked in the Felker case, which is, you know,
giving some deference to Congress's ability to shape the
scope of the writ, is there a problem here? I think we
would point the Court to Felker.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And you say those later
cases are not relevant because habeas corpus in the
modern world is much broader than it was in 1789.
That's part of your point?
GENERAL CLEMENT: That is part of our point.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
GENERAL CLEMENT: And we would say, though
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: And the comparison you ask
us to make is between what the habeas writ was in 1789,
not what the comparison to a habeas writ would be today?
GENERAL CLEMENT: We would start with that
proposition, but I think this isn't a case where it's
just 1789 versus today because as I read this -- -
JUSTICE STEVENS: I don't think you would
seriously contend that the procedures set forth in the
statute are equivalent to those afforded under the
habeas writ under today's jurisdiction?
GENERAL CLEMENT: It's a hard question for
me to answer -- -
JUSTICE STEVENS: At least you haven't
argued that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, no, but I mean the
question is, you know, in a different case, sure, there
would be a different habeas. But we don't know sort of
the answer as to what habeas looks like in the context
of enemy combatants detained in a place like Guantanamo,
and we suggest, based on our best reading of Hamdi that,
if there was habeas jurisdiction now, that the
proceeding that would unfold would not be the plenary
habeas that is envisioned by Petitioners but would be a
much more narrowly circumscribed habeas. I would also
point out that, again, it's not just --
JUSTICE STEVENS: On the point I made, I
think that's critical to your argument that the
substitute is adequate.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think that's right. I
would say, though, that our only baseline is not 1789
because, as we read this Court's decision in Rasul,
Rasul is based on the predicate that until 1973 and
Braden's overruling of Ahrens, that the habeas statute
would not have gone to Guantanamo. And unless this
Court is willing to say that there was an inchoate
Suspension Clause violation until 1973 when Braden comes
along, it seems like the tradition in this country too,
based on the immediate custodian rule and the
territorial jurisdiction of the courts, was that habeas
in Guantanamo is a novelty. It's -- 1973 at best.
If I could finish with just bringing the
Court's attention to one thing. This is in an amicus
brief that is in support of us, the Criminal Justice
Legal Foundation brief. But there's sufficiently little
precedence for the Court to rely on, and I want the
Court to have this: The Schiever case, which is one of
the prisoner-of-war cases. There's not -- in the Rasul
case, Justice Stevens, and the parties, we both cited to
volume 97 of English Reporter and the report of the case
by Burrow -- there is in the English Reports an
alternative report of that case, from Kenyon. And the
report of that case which is 96 English Reports 1249 is
actually longer on the law, shorter on the facts, but
longer on the law than the report by Lord Burrow. So I
wanted the court to have that available to them.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
General Clement.
Mr. Waxman, we'll give you five minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH W. WAXMAN.
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. WAXMAN: Thank you, Your Honor.
I want to speak mostly about the adequacy of
the substitute and particularly the question that you
and Justice Kennedy asked about adjudication of the
standard on remand, but just to take first things first,
I don't -- I don't believe I've ever seen the
government's -- the case Liverridge or Green cases cited
by the government before. And I don't know what they
say. But it is absolutely incorrect that DTA review of
the CSRTs is a liberalization of the traditional writ.
As this Court made -- or the King's Bench made clear in
the Bushell's case and all of the commentators including
Sharpe, who both sides are citing as authoritative, here
agree in cases of executive detention, where there
wasn't a trial occurring, the court absolutely could --
the prisoner could controvert the facts of the return in
Schiever and Spanish Citizens -- Spanish Prisoners,
there wasn't an original hearing because the court
issued -- sat as nisi prius court and considered
affidavits of the prisoners and third parties and
determined on the basis of the affidavits that they were
prisoners of war.
But it is absolutely clear that the writ did
extend to the question of "I am not a combatant. I am
not a warrior, number one. And number two, it did go in
non-criminal detentions to the underlying facts of the
detention, and that goes to the point about the standard
that Justice Kennedy asked and the Chief Justice asked.
We agree that, if and when the D.C. Circuit
ever addresses the merits of these cases, and not only
is there no CSR -- complete record on return in any
case, but the government has suggested they proceed five
at a time, and we're now two years running without a
single one -- but there's no doubt that the argument
we're making in Roman numeral 2 of our brief, that the
CSR, the Wolfowitz definition is not authorized
detention under the AUMF, which as this Court in Hamdi
said, incorporates long-established law-of-war
principles and American traditions.
We can raise that claim because they have to
establish that the procedures and standards were
consistent not only with the Constitution but also with
the laws of the United States. And the problem this is
this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That is an argument
that, I gather, both sides agree is available to you
under the DTA before the D.C. Circuit.
MR. WAXMAN: That is absolutely correct.
But what -- what habeas at its core was -- and we're
talking -- I'm happy to live in the world of 1789 now --
is executive detention and not the more modern
innovations where, well, certain procedures weren't
constitutional or whatever, but you have no right to
hold me. The facts won't allow you to hold me. The
D.C. Circuit cannot --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What does that tell you
about the adequacy of the substitute?
MR. WAXMAN: Because the D.C. Circuit --
because the D.C. Circuit is reviewing a record that was
adduced ex parte, in camera, with a presumption to boot
that it is -- that the evidence is both accurate and
complete, and the D.C. Circuit is -- has already said it
will not hear any new evidence and it must apply that
same presumption that that evidence that was heard ex
parte in camera with its own presumption is correct.
And here's -- let me just give you an example of what
difference this makes. You have the unredacted version
of Judge Green's district court opinion. I don't. She
discusses -- she does address the adequacy of the
substitute. And she addresses the case of two
individuals. One is Mr. Ait-Idir, who is my client, and
you have both in her opinion and our brief this truly
Kafka-esque colloquy at his hearing in which he is
accused of associating with a known Al-Qaeda operative,
which he denies, but he can't be told the name.
Mr. Kurnaz is the other Petitioner who is
discussed in her brief. He was a Petitioner in this
Court, but he has since been released by the government
because of the fact that he had what the CSRTs won't
give him, which is a lawyer. He was told, two years
after he was detained -- he's a German permanent
resident -- he was told at his CSRT, as many of these
individuals were not, that he was being held because he
associated with a known terrorist. And he was told the
name.
He was told that he associated with somebody
called Selcook Bilgen who, the government contended, was
(a) a terrorist, who was -- had blown himself up while
Mr. Kurnaz was in detention -- may I simply finish this
account -- while he was in detention and in a suicide
bombing; and all that Mr. Kurnaz could say at his CSRT
where he had no lawyer and had no access to information
was I never had any reason to suspect he was a
terrorist.
Well, when the government, in the habeas
proceedings, filed its factual return in Judge Green's
court, it filed as its factual return the CSRT record.
His counsel saw that accusation. Within 24 hours, his
counsel had affidavits not only from the German
prosecutor but from the supposedly deceased Mr. Bilgen,
who is a resident of Dresden never involved in terrorism
and fully getting on with his life.
That's what -- and that evidence would not
have been allowed in under DTA review. It wouldn't have
been in the CSRT, and it won't come in under DTA review.
And that's why it is inadequate.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Waxman.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:24 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
addressed 15:11 affirmance 64:4 analysis 17:5 arguing 49:8
69:10 addresses 73:10 affirmed 63:18 answer 9:18 argument 1:23
76:16 32:20 Afghanistan 30:2,3 35:5 32:13 38:20
53:23 adequacy 54:20 9:6 34:25 48:8 62:18 64:20 47:4,6,7,15,22
56:21 54:24 57:21 72:19 73:9 66:22 70:7,13 48:1,8,10
72:14,20 64:11,15 66:3 74:1 answers 49:9 49:24 57:9,10
74:3 67:13 68:14 agreed 28:9 anybody 51:15 58:6 60:10
6:22 22:24 agreements 15:7 appealing 13:6 arguments
48:21,25 37:22 38:11 Ait-Idir 75:1 20:17 21:1,14 64:25
61:6 39:22 48:24 Al 1:4,9,11,13 21:18 22:1 argument's
59:20 61:21 1:14,17 4:5 35:2 48:5,7 38:22
adequately 6:4 alien 10:12 11:6 66:5 67:11 16:10,10 18:4
74:16 41:16 65:6 aliens 15:19 applications Article 16:11
31:20 adjudicatory 48:23 applies 6:16 22:13
35:20,24 4:23 Alito's 29:15 14:14 60:12 asked 20:6
37:24 administering allow 8:20 37:24 apply 7:9 10:4 22:13 23:2
26:2 46:6 47:6 60:8 14:15 21:24 24:18 45:23
administrative 67:18 74:9 30:17 49:1 69:9 72:9 73:8
63:23 admitted 65:10 alternative appropriate 39:7
advance 64:15 67:17 68:8 20:14 23:24 assembling
affidavits 72:25 American 5:8 argue 20:19 assertion 8:12
76:15 72:11 bring 10:1 48:15 25:5 26:10,19
b 9:17 14:8 72:16 bringing 71:11 42:17 43:23
24:15 33:21 42:16,18 44:11 46:14,20 52:2
47:4,11 59:17 70:15 71:10 44:21 50:15 65:11 68:20
48:3 54:5 48:20 45:5 46:15,19 53:6 69:15 71:22 72:12,17
base 13:21 14:14 76:5 brought 9:2 76:14,15
29:1,4 30:6,10 Bollman 32:2 56:9,9 8:23 10:18,22
54:8 based 44:2 boot 22:6 74:15 52:21 12:22,25 13:25
66:17 70:15 Bosnia 38:14,24 Burrow 71:20 15:18 17:10
73:17 basic 8:24 34:19 Braden 71:6 C 46:18,21 47:1
basically 46:5 branch 48:19 call 16:15 40:19 52:19 68:22
basis 5:3 9:21 17:15 38:4,5 60:5 75:17 72:12,19 73:10
26:5,8 43:19,24 73:1 break 58:10 74:15,20 centuries 7:1
29:17,18 battlefield 8:3,5 Breyer 24:15 camps 16:1 10:11 11:23
35:1,13 8:9 19:19 50:6 25:15 26:17 capture 16:15 certain 11:1
37:15 56:2 38:9 39:11,14 captured 8:4 74:7
44:3,9 Bay 8:25 14:6 39:18 46:23 17:24 18:1 certainly 5:16
55:17 28:10 31:10 48:6,13 53:13 51:15 6:24 12:21
Beckawannal... 53:14 54:1,15 capturing 17:25 23:15 24:2
73:16 beginning 23:2 Breyer's 53:24 case 4:4,5 5:7,22 44:3 49:6
41:8 begrudgingly brief 11:15,18 7:5 9:16,22 certainty 20:22
64:1 12:20 33:7 10:9,22 11:2 challenge 17:1
35:20 3:6,9 4:8 32:14 58:3 71:13,14 13:9 14:10 challenges 57:21
40:5 72:5 73:15 75:2,7 15:1 17:4 challenging 54:3
59:2 belief 46:7 briefed 68:7 18:22 19:24 Chambers
74:1 believe 8:16 briefs 24:23 20:15 21:16 12:23 26:11
circumscribed clear 7:17 10:3 clue 45:25 42:8 46:12,14
circumstance 18:12,13 24:17 code 23:17 57:7 68:18
15:3,10,12 67:16 72:16 Colepaugh 11:25 44:14
7:10 cited 10:19 11:1 36:22 57:1 75:3 comparison
8:8 13:18 12:22 16:9 clear-cut 14:9,9 Columbia 20:17 33:7 69:21,23
16:25 29:22,22 55:7 Clement 2:4 3:5 combat 17:22 competing
18:13 71:18 72:12 32:12,13,15 combatancy 17:15
23:1 cites 12:4 33:3,5,17,24 51:14 complaint 34:12
28:2 citing 13:12 34:5,18 35:4 combatant 8:17 complete 9:8
72:18 35:19 36:1,15 36:17 44:25 14:13 28:12,19
34:24 citizen 11:22,24 36:24 37:19 51:24 55:19 73:11 74:17
11:25 26:24 39:9,12,18 73:4 complied 55:8
58:2,25 30:13 40:25 41:3,19 combatants 8:1 comply 37:16
72:1 73:8 citizens 5:8 41:21 42:5,12 16:13 19:15 concede 9:2
76:12 25:13 72:22 42:15,24 43:2 50:20 51:14,20 38:20,22 40:19
civilian 18:8 50:8,13,19,25 61:11 76:10 concern 48:10
43:19,25 44:5 55:20,23 56:6 19:13 23:21 conclude 38:21
7:8 55:3,12 56:12 58:1,14,20 18:3 19:12 39:25 40:1
24:6 56:25 57:11 59:4,15 60:2 23:10 30:18 43:8,17,18
35:2,8 60:17 73:20 62:10,17 63:8 commentators 44:1
claims 17:18 63:16,22 64:12 72:17 concurrence
38:17 19:5 32:25,25 64:18 65:12 commission 15:11
55:22 33:2 40:11 66:6,12,15 51:10 concurring 25:5
57:23 48:15 56:8,9 67:1,15 68:3,5 commissions condition 37:16
58:9 57:3,4,10 68:6,11,15,24 51:8 52:7 conditions 15:13
62:6 61:22 62:7 69:17,19,24 57:18,19 conduct 29:9
63:24 clarification 70:6,10,24 committed 30:1 30:13
65:3,11 24:4 72:2 50:4,5,9 56:3 conducted 20:22
clarified 24:3 cleverly 53:24 56:19 confidentiality
73:9 classified 16:16 54:1 common 4:12,24 22:21
21:10 22:22 client 21:4 75:1 10:7 12:17 confined 4:12
28:9 contends 4:21 65:24 74:3,20 60:16 61:6,17 75:9
32:19 contention 14:7 correctly 34:20 62:5,11,12,18 CSTR 35:8,10
48:18 context 46:20 counsel 5:16 63:15,19 64:1 Cuba 28:23
57:15 49:11 68:6,7 11:15 16:17,18 65:13,19,22 Cuban 28:14
60:5 70:13 17:2 18:10 66:4,5,7,7 29:3,8,13,19
67:9 continuing 63:1 34:4,7,17,21 67:11,18,24 29:23 30:17
67:3 60:22 country 10:10 71:5,15,16,25 custodian 71:8
contrary 37:18 14:21 18:11 72:16,20,23,24 custody 15:25
control 9:9 28:6 35:18 75:8 76:2 cuts 58:9
15:4 17:7,10 country's 28:7 13:4 20:9
28:12,20 29:8 46:18 30:15,18 32:22 D 2:4 3:5 4:1
56:23 controls 31:5 39:19 40:11 44:13,17,21 danger 54:13
controvert 44:20 49:23 46:1,18 47:25 day 7:13 8:4,10
40:17 44:14 59:1,4,15 62:11,22,23 days 14:10
7:9 13:8 controverting court 1:1,23 Court's 32:17 60:6 69:4
32:4 41:7 44:22 4:10,19 5:17 55:5 65:15 dealing 69:1
38:25 conveniently 6:11,24 7:18 71:1,12 deceased 76:5
47:13 36:20 7:21,23 8:6 Cowle 13:11 December 1:20
64:21 convening 23:21 9:18,21 12:3 crafted 53:24 decide 17:9 62:6
Convention 15:14,17 16:8 Crewe 10:25 63:1 65:23
10:7 33:1 conventional 19:15,17 20:16 crime 30:1 decided 9:22,23
40:21 17:23 20:16,17,25 50:22,22 56:4 12:23,25 13:5
54:5,20 conventions 21:1,14,18,22 crimes 50:5 26:21 31:7
57:3 16:11 42:1 22:1,15,15,20 criminal 18:5 37:5 43:23
65:17,18 converse 29:25 22:23 24:2,9 49:21 71:13 64:18
convictions 26:2 28:11 critical 70:22 deciding 7:14
55:17 convincing 31:23,24 32:2 13:15 24:25 decision 4:17
core 4:24 69:1 37:4,15 40:10 crown's 12:8,9 31:18 32:17
10:7 12:1 43:17,18 44:1 7:6 21:19 22:9 decisionmaker
25:20 26:12,24 48:4,7,23 49:4 53:18 54:19 decisions 29:22
70:3 59:23 69:14 53:5,14 54:9 76:2,10 4:16
40:9 41:24 discard 27:21 67:22 72:14 enactment
45:11 7:25 8:12 39:4 discussed 10:19 D.C 1:19 2:2,5 32:24
45:1 46:5,6 18:23 75:7 6:6,7,9,14,20 enemies 51:18
54:12 56:18 dismiss 19:16 32:23 35:2,8 15:19,19,20
69:10 74:6 75:19,20 dismissed 67:21 36:1 38:17 36:17 44:25
53:1 determination 5:18 44:16,17 57:24 58:9 enforced 53:7
55:18 5:16 6:21 14:1 69:2 59:20,21 62:6 engage 59:21
16:20 19:11 disputed 28:18 62:19 63:24 engaged 16:12
determinations 20:9,17,25 67:19 73:9 England 10:14
53:15 doctor 26:17,18 E 47:22
14:11 19:14 64:15 33:14 Earl 10:25 11:18 11:5,6 13:4,13
73:1 domination 27:23 42:22 46:1
25:7 54:19 dominion 12:8 easy 15:1 Englishmen
deviations 33:8 25:3 effect 23:11 12:23
74:22 18:24 24:24 effectiveness entirely 7:17
15:21 19:2 57:17 68:12 6:2,10 20:18 66:23 41:25 49:6,8
13:13 difficult 49:13 34:24 35:1,6 22:1 35:16 envisioned 55:6
18:9 61:8,8,9,12 37:18,21,23,25 39:2 46:12 55:14 70:18
56:3 diplomatic 28:5 38:3 39:20 47:18 49:11,17 equally 40:13
62:24 directed 25:22 40:4 48:24 53:13 54:10 equivalent
75:11 directing 64:2 49:10 52:19,24 Emergency 45:1 39:15 70:4
19:20 directly 14:3 58:6 59:1 60:9 empire 10:11 3:8
23:8 disagree 36:24 60:9,13,19,20 en 35:22 essentially 35:12
30:17 disagreement 62:19 64:11 enacted 10:2 establish 73:21
22:18,21 exhaustion 19:10 40:17 40:11 41:4 FRIEND 1:12
27:25 41:7 44:14,22 61:5 67:24 Friendly 39:25
existing 65:11 factual 4:14 five 10:10 11:23 fully 25:2 68:7
expedite 58:22 21:6 44:16,23 59:9 72:3 full-blown 51:10
19:14 experienced FAHAD 1:13 fixed 12:19 22:14
22:4,5 22:19 fair 4:15 8:18 flawed 5:2 21:22
33:14 experimentati... 16:25 17:1 floods 17:19 G
57:11 22:17 68:3,15 follow 32:25 G 4:1
74:16,18 explained 4:20 fairness 68:25 64:24 game 23:14
76:8 13:11 14:8 fall 24:4,8 followed 66:18 gather 74:1
explicates 26:10 fashion 66:4 following 21:25 general 2:4 18:3
52:17 extend 32:7 features 4:24 force 9:15 17:18 32:15 33:3,5
64:12,13 64:10 73:4 Federal 31:4 60:11 33:17,24 34:5
18:12 52:14 53:15 Felker 69:9,12 28:24 39:18 40:25
37:13 60:14 61:10 field 18:7 forget 36:11 41:3,19,21
52:3 66:8 63:2 fight 29:12 form 23:25 42:5,12,15,24
fighting 50:4 formal 25:7 65:6 43:2,5,10,21
facetious 31:1 35:22 44:8 70:3 51:3,7,19,25
9:9 29:23 fact 11:3,17 find 24:19 25:11 fortiori 46:14 55:20,23 56:6
72:19 12:22 13:16 48:9 forum 47:3 56:21 57:13
14:11 17:18 finds 35:8 48:17 58:1,14,20
26:12 56:16,17 58:12 75:19 found 13:7 63:8,16,22
59:10,12 62:24 finished 20:18 36:17,20 42:20 64:12,18 65:12
15:4 factor 17:5 first 4:12 9:7,21 71:14 67:1,15 68:3,5
factors 28:13 12:16 18:16 founding 26:22 68:6,11,15,24
54:6 57:23 grounds 4:14,15 70:5,12,13,16 26:25 65:17
58:21 60:6,7,8 5:13 63:17,19 70:18,19 71:3 holds 48:23
42:10 65:19 8:25 9:24 10:5haec 31:20 Honor 72:6
good 38:21,24 13:21 14:6 Hamdan 37:5 hope 39:24
66:23 28:19,23 30:1 Hamdi 5:7,11 hostilities 19:21
41:6 govern 21:11 38:14 39:2 52:17 55:5 hours 76:3
4:21 5:23 9:11 71:4,10 happen 48:25 7:16 8:3,9
75:11 11:2,11,18 guarantee 6:25 happened 56:14 53:24 54:23
16:18 20:10 guess 23:8 38:10happens 39:16 56:7,9,11
28:14,21 29:23 Gulf 18:5 happy 74:5 I
40:10 36:21 37:16,17 H hear 4:3 74:18 33:4,6
41:23 42:2 habeas 4:24 5:5 heard 62:3 II 16:2 17:9
31:6 44:24 45:6 6:21 7:1,12,14 hearing 16:14 III 32:22
42:6 47:17 49:5 7:18,21 8:6,11 21:24 38:16 ill-defined 12:19
60:3 66:1 72:13 8:15 9:5,24 41:22 43:3,6 image 47:16
73:12 75:8,17 10:2,3,7,11 43:12 72:23 immediate 71:8
government's 15:17 16:3,7 hearings 18:7 59:10
32:11 22:4,5 31:8 18:13,20 19:2 heartened 30:16 8:22
56:7 72:3 36:18 41:18 19:15,17 20:7 held 5:11 6:14 impediment
75:10 44:6 50:2 20:15,16 21:7 7:3,4,9,12 8:10 36:10
47:5 grant 59:22 25:20 26:12,23 18:7 19:23 implementing
granted 10:12 27:14 31:21 25:13 27:2,6,9 16:10
37:15 greater 31:2 45:19 47:25 high 25:21,24 23:13
46:15 greatest 63:2 48:24 49:1,11 26:1 inadequate 58:6
55:14 Green 6:13 52:20 55:2,6,8 Hirota 9:16 58:8 60:11
61:13 20:11 21:3 55:13 59:23 history 11:23 76:11
45:4,7 72:12 60:5,8,12,15 25:12 27:19 inappropriate
24:15,17 greeted 61:1 67:7,20,22 51:15,15 54:10 inchoate 71:5
45:5,7 ground 67:17 68:1,2 69:2,3 74:9,9 incidentally
53:13 68:8 69:14,22,23 holding 7:25 44:6
72:17 interesting 37:3 Jersey 12:4 25:15,18 26:5 73:25 74:11
interests 17:24 26:11 27:20 28:2 justiciability
35:17 46:12 69:5 74:23 33:5,15,20 Kafka-esque
26:10 46:4,11 judges 6:12 35:5,15,25 Kennedy 11:19
interrupt 57:8 22:19 26:2,7 36:5,16,25 15:11 20:13,24
invoke 9:17 judicial 30:9 40:23 41:1,4 53:11,21 54:14
49:24 involvement 32:1 43:3,7,15,22 Kentucky 31:3
52:10 57:18 jurisdiction 8:7 43:24 44:10 Kenyon 71:21
62:24 involving 12:4 9:9,18 12:2 45:9,15,19 key 29:15
75:1,13 19:19 54:12 14:13 15:2,9 46:3,23 48:2,6 KHALED 1:11
irrelevant 8:12 19:18 27:10 49:23 50:1,10 kidnapped
irrespective 30:15 36:8,9 51:6,17,22 killed 50:9
21:9,10 Islands 12:5 42:22 45:18,20 53:10,11,13,14 37:8 44:23
34:1,2 Isle 12:4 60:7 63:5 64:7 53:20,21,24 51:9 58:9
61:11 isolation 7:4 64:10 67:10 54:1,14,15,16 60:25 61:6,14
issue 22:15,16 70:5,16 71:9 54:18,23 55:15 King 13:11
24:20 25:12 10:17,22 11:5 59:14,17 60:3 know 8:4 16:7
issues 15:10 12:7,11,12,25 63:4,6,11,14 25:19 29:21
36:12 63:7 66:17 14:4,17,18,24 64:14,19 65:4 36:11 43:22
issuing 26:2 15:11,22 16:25 65:12 66:2,9 45:11,16,23
J 19:5 20:3,13 68:5,11,16,19 69:7,9 70:11
level 56:10 59:8 64:25 22:16 42:13,14 multinational
Ludekey 19:3,4 member 18:24 9:15
30:20,23 limited 5:1 7:20 11:1 12:3 25:6 65:8,8,9 73:10 name 75:5,15
31:5 48:16 27:22 31:17 met 24:22 narrowly 70:19
12:17 limits 40:12 making 73:15 27:7 28:20 30:13
14:7,14 line 12:13 13:19 mandamus miles 19:24 31:2
26:8,10 35:12 40:2,13 26:13 military 7:19,24 nature 7:7 15:3
32:8 40:5 lines 14:10 manifest 7:5 14:20 17:8 near 16:14,14
list 25:9 manner 56:18 19:11 22:11 nearly 68:21
45:4 listen 47:25 48:7 Mansfield 13:11 23:14,18 32:25 necessarily
litigate 64:14 14:8 24:23 33:19,22 51:7 55:10
litigated 52:24 material 16:9 51:10 52:7 necessary 44:24
54:10 66:4 34:1 57:18,19 64:24 necessitates
57:7 litigation 52:3 matter 1:22 66:18,20 35:12
68:18 63:23,25 10:10 11:17 mind 24:17 need 49:14
71:23,24 little 7:7 71:14 14:18 58:8 mine 15:18 67:25
46:3 72:12 MCA 38:3 53:22 minority 11:17 neutral 4:16
73:23 14:19 mean 12:12,16 minutes 24:11 neutrality 23:10
21:7 73:18 30:24 31:1 misspoke 66:13 59:18 63:6,21
31:12 33:6 45:5 41:4 43:22 misunderstood 75:23 76:6
71:14 Lord 11:19 58:14 62:10,17 74:6 nisi 72:24
23:7 lots 64:25 8:22 65:2 move 64:2 non-combatants
47:16 lower 62:10,22 means 20:7 multi 17:5 18:9
37:11 38:22 13:21 26:13 personal 33:11 30:4 34:6 41:1
ones 10:20 33:8 68:20 69:16,17 34:6 42:7 46:17
operating 44:13 74:20 19:14 68:16 69:12,16
19:9 opinion 10:19 34:13,20 37:2 16:22 18:20 pointed 31:11
10:24 11:17 52:19 56:12 19:2 35:23 31:15 48:2
63:10,11 74:23 15:1 30:21 60:8,9,15,20 political 13:22
57:25 72:25 1:15 2:3 3:4,9 position 8:24
58:5 62:25 22:9 64:16 possession 26:4
original 72:23 27:3,6 Philippines 17:8 possible 23:6
68:4 outset 31:15 12:23 18:14 place 9:8 15:2 65:5
26:13 23:12 25:12,21 24:25 31:3 37:22
30:10 49:17 50:2 63:25 70:14 19:22 25:2
18:14 P 2:2 3:3,8 4:1 54:2 56:13 pleading 43:11 31:9 37:10,11
PAGE 3:2 62:1,7 67:6 please 4:10 practice 36:21
panel 36:19 15:21 59:2,21 66:4 70:17 71:15
Parliament 75:11 52:16 55:7 predicate 71:2
56:24 prius 72:24 product 59:12 pursuant 14:21 raise 53:5 73:20
64:23 private 46:20 proffered 43:25 35:24 raised 23:10
22:3 37:2,8,10,12 pronounced Putting 8:7,8 10:19,23 12:4
54:9 69:11 73:23 44:10 69:25 Q 32:17 40:24
66:25 38:8 51:5 qualify 50:13,19 65:15 71:1,2
24:9 65:2,7 50:24 12:18 13:14 67:12 68:13,20
procedures 5:7 prosecutor 76:5 14:3,18 16:7 reached 38:21
16:10 20:12 20:21,21 30:17 29:16,25 34:25 reaction 28:14
22:18,25 34:22 36:8 37:25 38:13 42:22 48:8 55:5 64:3
48:12 49:1 protection 41:25 45:23 46:4 readily 22:24
54:12 57:3,4 58:19 proves 45:16 55:15,17 56:16 65:16 70:15
64:24 66:19,20 35:6 58:18,24 59:19 really 23:13
41:5 74:7 33:14 34:8,11 66:22 67:6,10 58:7 61:5
68:22 proceeding 20:9 49:10 53:21 73:4 25:21,24 26:14
41:12,14 52:25 55:11 60:19,20 61:1 49:9,14 59:16 rearguing 40:24
60:15 70:17 62:25 64:8 61:8,8,10,12 reason 16:23
proceedings 67:9 63:20,24 66:10 17:21 41:9
56:12 20:18,21 21:20 provides 33:13 66:15,21,22,25 44:11 67:21
21:21 22:9 49:20 64:21 67:19 68:12,13 75:23
40:14 64:8,11 76:1 59:13 66:20 quickly 52:9 63:20 68:17
process 4:23 5:2 proving 56:3 62:7 reasons 9:7
43:9 5:12 6:16 8:18 provision 39:6 quite 5:7 37:18 20:20 68:17
44:2 23:1 30:18 60:9 47:9 68:12 rebuttal 3:7
72:22 38:7,10 42:21 provisions 31:21 quote 4:20 14:13 24:12,14 32:11
73:2 62:25 31:22 28:24 72:4
71:17 47:8 purposes 38:19 R 51:12
rely 71:15 29:8 31:10 reviewing 35:2 run 15:18 23:9
61:9 remand 20:15 42:5,16 51:9 reviews 31:23
73:11 35:9 66:11,16 52:6,9 57:9 right 8:5,11 10:7 S
76:2 72:10 61:22 62:15 13:7 16:4,15 S 3:1 4:1
remedies 27:25 RESPONDENT 33:11 34:17 sailors 26:18
41:22 16:22 46:16 53:15 58:1 sat 72:24
33:13 46:25 retrenchment 68:1,12,18,24 34:7 44:4 53:4
report 33:21 40:8 69:3,5 70:24 53:8 63:9 67:5
Reporter 71:19 40:17 41:7 rights 32:20 13:21 40:13
represent 38:3 46:16,19 72:21 65:1,19 Scalia 9:20
33:12,16,18,21 returned 20:8 5:6,19,21 7:10 11:8,12,21
35:3,6 represents reverses 65:20 29:17 32:10 19:5 25:18
36:4 52:11 reversing 63:15 34:24 35:15,25 26:5 27:2,5,9
37:3,7 request 20:2 review 5:1,5 6:3 57:20 58:25 27:20 31:15
49:17 require 7:25 7:8 15:17 64:6 72:1 42:10,13 49:16
75:8 required 6:21 22:9 23:4 24:5 Robertson 37:4 Scalia's 24:16
54:11 requires 37:21 39:22 40:4 Roman 73:15 71:16 72:22
46:1 75:12 76:6 56:23,24 58:6 rule 7:21,23 seamen 25:22,23
resolved 58:13 59:8,13,19 40:16 44:14,21 25:24
resort 36:5 60:9,9,19,25 46:17 57:25 seas 25:21,24
10:16 64:7,11,23 ruled 5:7,10 6:7 second 20:22
65:10 15:21 21:9 reviewed 19:14 ruling 22:15,16 40:12
46:8 single 10:9 37:11,20 40:23 73:7 33:3,5,15
28:8 18:19 21:16 42:6,19,25 54:17,20,24 50:16,21 51:2
27:11,13,18 43:1,3,7,15,22 57:3,21 73:21 51:6,17 55:23
46:24 Sir 12:22 26:11 45:9,15,19 start 39:23 58:11,15,20
19:22 38:14,25 39:1 sovereign 10:13 13:22 14:5,12 strange 65:21
70:3 61:24 62:2,8 sovereignties 27:10 28:10,21 strongly 47:9
57:5,14 six-year 20:14 sovereignty 39:1 41:14 structurally 5:2
67:3 59:2 13:23 14:6,7 42:11 49:19,20 21:21
snapshot 45:14 14:10,11 17:6 53:16 56:13 stuck 65:17
72:4 sold 56:14,17 28:3 status 15:6 30:5 subject 11:6
44:2 8:3,10 16:18 30:9 33:13 48:3,7,8 49:11 subjugation
44:25 50:9 specify 24:4 60:20,25 61:21 22:12
72:18 sorry 51:25 52:7 speedy 7:1,2 70:4 71:3 submitted 76:14
66:12 8:22 61:25 statutes 27:24 76:16
17:23 54:23 48:19 statutory 26:4 subsequently
37:20 Souter 23:6,16 stage 23:13 57:2 64:22,23 substantial 5:17
suspended 31:12 34:8 46:25 48:14 totally 11:12,14
22:24 suspending terrible 38:19 52:21 53:10,23 touchstone 17:7
37:22 25:25 Territo 18:22 54:8,22 55:4 tradition 71:7
39:22 suspension 6:15 territorial 25:3 55:13 56:5 traditional 5:5
58:7,8 40:8 60:12,23 25:8 71:9 57:5,16 58:21 48:5 72:15
65:24 61:20 71:6 territories 26:13 58:23 59:5,11 traditionally
68:1,21 sustained 68:23 territory 10:12 59:17 60:2,24 7:18
70:23 Swedish 26:18 12:9 27:14 61:4 63:22 traditions 73:19
74:12,25 system 31:4 61:6 28:4,24 31:10 65:14,23 66:6 treason 26:25
T terrorist 75:14 69:8,11,25 treatment 42:4
table 53:25 test 14:8 thinking 54:2 trial 51:11 72:20
24:7 25:10 28:18 Thank 32:9,10 41:17 55:25 16:24 18:7
29:6 39:19 72:1,6 76:12 72:25 23:17,22 24:7
52:14,19,20 50:24,25 51:2 24:18 31:6 48:11,12
73:12 63:25 65:1 25:17 42:14 55:23 59:25 true 11:3 22:18
46:24 47:2 45:14 49:7,8 10:25 20:1 trying 34:5
25:10 talks 54:16 7:17 8:13,14 time 7:20 16:14 turning 24:20
47:20 technical 24:21 8:14,14 9:7 22:17 24:14 two 4:17 6:12
61:16,19 technically 15:8 10:23,24 14:24 44:17,17,20 9:7 10:24
76:5 temporal 15:12 24:1,2 26:15 times 58:9 29:11 32:20
54:9 46:19 28:16 29:15 69:23 70:1 61:18 73:5,13
39:9,12 Tenth 18:22 33:25 34:23 told 19:12 48:6 typically 28:5
65:13 term 12:19 34:4 35:9 37:1 38:1 75:5,10,12,14
42:8 38:2 40:19,21 75:16 U
unlawfully 7:3 72:7 30:3,21,24 58:19
unredacted wants 18:1,3 74:13 76:13 words 25:4 64:9
use 36:3 42:8 17:22 18:2,5 39:19 42:8 workers 29:3,12
utterly 28:19 30:7 31:22 52:17 55:4 18:11 44:11
19:7 25:22 41:8,12,14,15 62:5 65:24 74:5
61:20 42:4,8,9,14,21 wear 15:23 59:5
23:19 34:4 13:11 16:11 49:18,20 50:3 1:20 23:13 55:10
50:1,23 18:7 19:3,8 50:4,5,11,11 week 8:5 76:9
53:11 vacate 28:25 50:14,17,18,18 well-established writ 6:4 12:1
64:5 50:20 56:20 40:16 13:3,4,9,12
vehicle 49:12 warrior 73:5 weren't 14:9 24:20,24 25:7
61:3 version 74:22 Washington 74:7 26:2,12,23
Vietnam 15:24 20:25 54:5 72:3 40:8,8,12,14
50:2,12 view 65:25 37:8 41:9,11 73:13,15 74:4 44:8 46:13
17:23 violation 56:20 Waxman 2:2 3:3 51:5 61:2,20 69:11
4:5 9:3,15 8:13 9:6 10:15 win 23:24 62:20 writs 22:2 35:20
11:25 W 10:18,24 11:7 63:6,8,9,10,14 35:24 36:6,7
14:5,12 W 1:7 4:7 72:4 11:10,13 12:3 wisely 44:16 37:24 41:8
17:6 waging 49:18,20 12:10,15 13:10 withdrawal 64:7 written 47:12
20:1 wait 20:14 14:2,24 16:5 withdrawn 61:21
28:10,21 waiting 27:11 17:12,17 18:16 38:11 wrong 29:3
29:9 61:13 18:21 19:8 withheld 16:16 38:18
41:14 want 7:15,23 20:6,19 21:2 witnesses 16:15 wrongdoing
49:18,20 13:5 14:25 22:10 23:15,20 49:3 4:21
56:13 15:5 24:11 24:1 25:14,16 wives 19:25
38:23 39:5 26:20 27:3,7 Wolfowitz 73:16 X
62:14
11:22
22:13 2 73:15
38:14,25 2007 1:20
47:18 220 10:9 11:22
58:12,16 2241 31:17 49:2
61:24 2241(c)(1) 31:19
2243 21:8 35:15
75:10 2255 68:23
22:2
30:7
305 39:17 62:7
1:6 4:4 32 3:6
1:16 4:5 37 4:22 7:4
4
52:17 4 3:4
1:24 4:2 400,000 18:10
28:8 18:14
13:20
76:15
36:16 5 1:20
18:6,6 50 33:6
71:22 51 33:6
36:17 6
31:20 6 7:5
24:23
7
25:19 7 52:8
25:19 72 3:9
31:20 32:2
42:16 9
46:14 900 18:8
61:1 96 71:22
97 71:19
74:5
32:19 33:4
34:8
45:1
44:19,20
60:21
