IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MICHAEL J. KNIGHT, TRUSTEE :
OF THE WILLIAM L. RUDKIN :
TESTAMENTARY TRUST, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1286
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL :
REVENUE. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 27, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PETER J. RUBIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PETER J. RUBIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PETER J. RUBIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in case 06-1286, Michael Knight,
Trustee, v. the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
Mr. Rubin.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER J. RUBIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. RUBIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The question in this case is the meaning of
a statute that provides that, in arriving at a trust or
estate's adjusted gross income, amounts are allowable in
full if they are -- and I quote here from 26 U.S.C.
section 67(e), which you can find at the bottom of page
3a of the appendix to the blue brief -- "costs which are
paid or incurred in connection with the administration
of the estate or trust and which would not have been
incurred if the property were not held in such trust or
estate."
I'd like to make three broad points.
First, when one applies the judicial tools
of statutory interpretation, the statute can mean only
one thing. Second, "would not" does not mean "could
not." The Commissioner's current reading of the statute
and the Commissioner's previous readings of the statute
are wrong. Indeed, the logic of the Commissioner's
position supports us. It acknowledges the distinctive
nature of trusts and fiduciary obligations. Finally,
our reading makes sense. It is consistent with the
treatment of trusts and estates elsewhere in the Code.
It puts in place an administrable rule that draws a
clear line, and by contrast the Commissioner has
provided no reason at all why Congress would have wanted
to subject the fees at issue here to the 2 percent
floor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think those three points
are certainly what would help me. Could I ask just two
preliminary questions? They don't necessarily have to
do with this case, just to get something straight. I
take it that you couldn't have claimed this deduction
under 162 without getting into an argument that it
should be capitalized and that's why 212 is in the Code?
MR. RUBIN: Well, 212 and 162 are really
sort of two sides of the same coin. 162 is for costs
incurred in a trade or business, and there's no -- the
trust isn't engaged in a trade or business any more than
an individual who invests for the protection of property
is in a trade or business. 212, by contrast -- and the
text of 212 can be found in the governor's -- the
government's brief appendix at 5a -- 212 is about
expenditures for the preservation of property and for
income in that context. So that's why this is a 212,
not a 162.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: My other question is
background only. Perhaps I should ask the government.
Are 162 expenses subject to the 2 percent ceiling?
MR. RUBIN: My recollection is that 162 --
162 expenses are not subject to the -- they're not
miscellaneous itemized deductions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you agree
that as a taxpayer seeking an exception to a general
rule, you have the burden of proof in this case?
MR. RUBIN: No, Your Honor. We think that
-- well, there are really two things built into your
question, Mr. Chief Justice.
First is the question of who bears the
burden of proof in tax cases specifically, and as this
court has made clear, this was litigated below on a
slightly different theory. The government's theory has
changed during the pendency of the litigation. And
below they argued that this was a common expense for
individuals; yet they introduced no evidence of that.
And under the United States v. Janis, this Court's
decision in that case, they can't -- the government is
required to come forward with something before assessing
tax. But in terms of exceptions and rules, we can --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We can't take -- I
guess it's not judicial notice, but we can't assume that
individual investors with several million dollars of
liquid assets might hire investment advisors?
MR. RUBIN: They might hire investment
advisors, Your Honor, but we don't think that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do they usually hire
investment advisors?
MR. RUBIN: I don't think it's clear that
they usually hire investment advisors, but I think the
important point here, in a way, is the premise of your
question, which is that only certain trusts with certain
assets, under a test that looked at what the
Commissioner used to argue, which is commonality or
customariness of a particular expense, only -- the
Commissioner herself now argues that, that this test is
unmanageable because there's difficulty in figuring out
what the denominator of the fraction is. Do you mean
all people? Is it common among everyone, among
taxpayers, among taxpayers with certain assets? Would a
$100,000 trust have to be treated differently than a
million dollar trust? Then there's the question of what
do you mean by "common." You suggested "usually" or
"sometimes," "might." That's not clear either. And
then ultimately there would have to be a trial somewhere
to determine whether costs like this are indeed common
to whatever standard was articulated. And I think this
is why --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess you'd
concede, wouldn't you, that you're not entitled to all
of the investment advice that you receive but perhaps
only that that is related to the trust status? In other
words, if your investment advisor charges you $50,000
and, you know, 10,000 of it is unique to the trust, but
40,000 is the same sort of advice he'd give an
individual, you'd only be able to get the 10,000 outside
of the 2 percent limit?
MR. RUBIN: We think, Your Honor, that all
trust investment fees are distinctive, that what renders
them distinctive and renders them fully deductible under
the statute is that they are incurred as a result of
distinctive fiduciary obligations. We think the statute
draws a line between costs like that, that are incurred
as a result of distinctive fiduciary obligation, which
would include all investment management or advice fees,
and by contrast costs that inhere in ownership of a
particular piece of property and that any owner of that
property would have to pay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't -- I don't
really see that line. I mean, let's -- let's take, you
know, fixing the roof on a house that's in the trust.
Aren't there distinctive trustee obligations with
respect to preservation of property, just as there are
with respect to preservation of financial assets?
MR. RUBIN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think that's a very hard
line to draw.
MR. RUBIN: Yes, Your Honor. I think the
line is -- is actually easier to draw than your question
suggests. I think that fixing a roof on a house might
be a cost that is close to the line. It may be that
some -- for example, if there were an ordinance in the
community that required upkeep of a house, we think that
it would be subject to the 2 percent floor.
The archetypal example of a cost that we
think Congress intended and by this language we believe
Congress rendered subject to the 2 percent floor are the
costs of pass-through entities that might be owned by
the trust or estate. So, for example, if there's an S
corporation and its management incurs an expense, that's
reported back -- because the S corporation has no
independent existence, that's reported back to the
owner, individual or trustee, and is reported as an
administrative expense. It would be subject to the 2
percent floor from the individual who incurred it, and
it would have been incurred, which is the language of
the statute, whether or not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm still --
MR. RUBIN: -- it was held in such trust or
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm still trying to get
back to my original question. I -- I would like to know
what you think is not an expense that's distinctive to
-- to a trust, other than fixing the roof, because you
haven't persuaded me on that.
MR. RUBIN: The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think fixing a roof is
fixing a roof.
MR. RUBIN: The cost of -- not distinctive
costs would be the costs incurred by an S corporation
owned by the trustee.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Anything else?
MR. RUBIN: A condo fee, for example, that
simply essentially runs with the property. Whoever owns
this land is going to have to pay the condo fee.
Required insurance on a vehicle.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't there a trustee
obligation to pay all -- all expenses which if not paid
will -- would cause a depletion of the assets?
MR. RUBIN: It's a question of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can't you say that that's a
trustee response -- I mean, if the criterion is he paid
this money only to discharge an obligation as a trustee,
it seems to me all of his expenses are in that category,
with the possible exception of the S corporations you're
talking about.
MR. RUBIN: Well, Your Honor, the costs are
distinctive in the case of -- of those things that are
caused by fiduciary obligation in the sense that we
describe because that's how they are caused. These
costs are incurred without regard to that fiduciary
obligation. They're paid perhaps because of fiduciary
obligation, but they are incurred through ownership of
the property.
And there is a hint in the text. If you
look at the text, you'll note that costs that are paid
or incurred are deductible. But this asks about whether
they would have been incurred if the property were not
held in such trust or estate.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rubin, you were not
willing to agree with the Chief when he said: Well,
maybe there are some investment expenses that are
special because this is a trust. But there must be some
that any investor would incur. But you say it's got to
be all one way.
MR. RUBIN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. Trustees
cannot under law, and do not, invest as individuals do.
To begin with, they always have to keep their eye on
current, future, contingent and remainder beneficiaries
and treat them with equal fairness.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But they don't have
to hire investment advisors. There is a standard that
they may think they can meet on their own. They may --
you know, it may be an investment advisor that is the
trustee. He doesn't have to hire somebody else.
So it's not something that necessarily
inheres in the nature of the trust.
MR. RUBIN: Whenever a trustee hires an
investment advisor, it is to fulfill this fiduciary
obligation. It is true that there may be a trustee who
is expert in this.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why -- if I could
pause you on that, why is that the case? Let's say it's
a -- the trustee understands perfectly his obligations
under the law. Let's just say he is supposed to
preserve capital and invest conservatively, but he wants
advice on which is the best conservative investment.
You know, is it railroads or is it
utilities? And that's the investment advice he seeks --
just that. He says: I know how I'm supposed to invest
as a fiduciary, but there are options in there, and I
just want advice on the options.
MR. RUBIN: Yes, Your Honor. I think that
that is actually quite a typical situation. The
trustee, of course, knows his or her obligations. It's
his or her inability to figure out how to fulfill them
that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, isn't that
just like an individual investor? If you have an
individual investor with $10 million in liquid assets,
he or she might know what he wants to do, either capital
appreciation or preservation, you know, whatever the
option is, but just wants some advice on how best to go
about that. That sounds exactly like the trustee in our
hypothetical.
MR. RUBIN: Well, Your Honor, there are
unique obligations. Some of these are set out in
Connecticut statutes. This is in our brief at page 7 of
the blue brief. There are ten considerations that
Connecticut law requires trustees to examine, including
things unique to trusts: the nature of the trust, its
duration. The need for liquidity or income versus
capital, which is principal growth versus income, is a
uniquely trustlike concern.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. No. No. You
see, that's my difficulty with your position. It's not
uniquely trust because you certainly have individuals
who may want income rather than capital appreciation or,
you know, preservation of capital. They may have
exactly the same objectives as a trustee. It's not
unique to the trust.
MR. RUBIN: It -- I guess I have two answers
to that, Your Honor. It may, by happenstance, be that
out of the black box of investment advice an individual,
by happenstance, gets the same advice as a trust
somewhere; but it would be by happenstance. The
decisional process leading to obtaining the advice,
incurring the cost, is distinct for trust, and indeed
the advice they receive is distinct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it seems to me that
that just simply couldn't have been Congress's purpose
in passing this statute because now you have a recipe
for avoidance. In most States -- California has a rule
that the trustee has to make prudent business
investments. I assume a great number of businessmen
outside the trust context think that they have their
principal objective of making prudent business
investments. But under your theory all expenses for
that objective would fall within this exclusion. I just
don't think that's what the Congress could possibly have
intended.
MR. RUBIN: Well, Your Honor, to begin with,
there is no risk here of tax avoidance through creation
of a trust. These are non-grantor trusts. There are
substantial costs involved in creating them, but, among
other things, the top bracket of 35 percent --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is that true just in
your case?
MR. RUBIN: No --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Universally, there is
never a danger of tax avoidance? You want us to write
the decision on the assumption that tax avoidance is
never a problem in the creation of a trust?
MR. RUBIN: Well, the Commissioner concedes
at page 37 of her brief that there is no substantial
problem of income- splitting through the use of
non-grantor trusts; and, indeed, throughout --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that true? And I'm
looking at testimony given by J. Roger Mintz in 1986
when this measure was before Congress, and in that
written testimony is the statement: "First, the
treatment of trusts as separate taxpayers with a
separate, graduated rate schedule can cause income to be
taxed at a rate lower than if the grantor had retained
direct ownership of the trust assets or given the assets
outright to the beneficiaries."
So apparently the Treasury was telling the
Congress that there is a problem.
MR. RUBIN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. That
problem was solved in Section 1 of 26 U.S. Code -- and
this is described at page 37 of our brief -- by a
compression of the tax brackets. The 35 percent bracket
kicks in for non-grantor trusts at $10,500. For an
individual it kicks in at $349,000. As a consequence,
there is no incentive to move money into a trust in
order to avoid taxation at a -- at a lower rate.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I am not sure
what you mean by "non-grantor trusts." What is a
"non-grantor trust"?
MR. RUBIN: A non-grantor trust is a real
trust with economic substance. A grantor trust is a
trust in which the grantor retains certain powers, for
example it's revocable, or whatever; and it's treated as
-- people set them up for estate- planning purposes, but
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: Every trust has a grantor,
I assume.
MR. RUBIN: Yes, yes, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So a "non-grantor trust" --
MR. RUBIN: But this is -- I guess this is a
term of art.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- is a trust without any
money.
MR. RUBIN: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: A grantor trust would be
one of those pass-throughs.
MR. RUBIN: Yes. And, indeed, this, I think
-- and part of the answer to Justice Kennedy's question:
The problem of tax avoidance was dealt with in section
67)(c), where entities like that were -- were said to be
treated as pass-through entities with no independent
existence. But trusts and estates were excepted
specifically from that because of this absence of risk
of income-splitting. And, indeed, we think that the --
the structure of the statute, not merely its text, but
the structure of the statute, indicates that this is
what Congress intended.
It's not -- it's not written the way I would
have written it, Your Honor. But none of the other
readings are textually even supportable, and this --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this sort of
elementary question, and it may reveal my stupidity.
But actually sometimes these costs are incurred by
individuals, and sometimes they're not. But -- so that
you would normally think there's going to be a
case-by-case analysis of what happened in the particular
case.
But do I understand correctly that both you
and the government take the position that we should
apply the same rule across the board regardless of the
actual facts?
MR. RUBIN: I wouldn't say "regardless of
the actual facts," Your Honor. But I would say this:
We believe it's a categorical test.
The first of what the Commissioner calls her
textually plausible readings is literally a case-by-case
examination of what would have happened with this
property if it were held by whomever, the beneficiary,
the grantor, it's not clear whom. And, as they
described, Congress can't have meant that. And this
would be an imponderable. How would you ever --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's the most normal
reading of the language, it's a case-by-case test. It
seems to me the -- probably the most unwise reading,
also.
MR. RUBIN: Well, Your Honor, I think -- I
see your point. And I think this is why, if you look at
the structure of Section 67, which treats pass-through
entities but not trusts and estates as presenting a risk
of income-splitting; if you look at the Code more
broadly, which permits deductions by trusts and estates
in many circumstances -- section 68 does; section 154
does -- when they're not permitted by individuals and
especially when you look at the statutory history
here --
Both houses of Congress -- well, this was
preexisting law, I should begin by saying. And then
both houses of Congress passed in the '86 Act this
statute without the second clause.
JUSTICE BREYER: I've read the legislative
history, which shows to me, anyway, precisely no light
whatsoever. It's -- the only relevant sentence, which
is the third sentence, simply repeats the statute. And,
therefore, I thought that what Congress is trying to do
is say, treat trusts like individuals, except in respect
to special expenses.
What are special expenses? Those that
are related to the trust and that an individual wouldn't
have occurred -- incurred. I can't say it much clearly
than that. But I have an absolutely clear idea what it
means. To me it means that if this is an expense that
the trust is saying is special, I would say, would a
reasonable person who did not hold these assets in
trust, would such a person be likely to make that kind
of expenditure?
And if the answer to that question is yes,
well, then I would say it's not a special expense. And
if the answer is no, I would say it was.
And then the IRS and you will come and say
that isn't precise enough. And I'd say the IRS has
plenty of authority in its regs to give lists of
examples which they do in such instances.
Now, I'm posing that, not because I bought
into it, though I'm tempted to, but I'd like to know
what your response is.
MR. RUBIN: Well, Your Honor, I guess my
response is severalfold. To begin with, the statute
doesn't ask what usually happens on the outside or
commonly or customarily, and indeed the Commissioner has
abandoned this reading of the statute precisely because
it presents the kind of imponderables that I was
discussing with the Chief Justice: What is usually
done? Do trusts of different sizes have different
rules? When a trust's assets come below a certain
point, what about that? And most importantly, it's not
in the text of the statute.
Now, the Commissioner concedes the
distinctive nature of trusts. And if you look at the
examples that she gives on page 23 of her brief of what
it is that, that is deductible in full, it's the same as
this: Fiduciary income tax preparation. Well,
people -- many people get income tax preparation for
individual income tax returns. The only difference is
it's a Form 1040 or a Form 1041.
Our case is much further from the line than
that because the investment advice must be tailored to
these, to these rules under Connecticut law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Well, then
let's take that. Let's suppose that the trustee goes to
an investment advisor, doesn't tell him that he is a
trustee, just says, I need to know, I can't decide,
should I invest in Union Pacific or CSX? I'm going to
invest in a railroad; which one do you like better? He
doesn't tell him he's a trustee, gets some advice and
gets a bill. Is that subject to the 2 percent floor,
because presumably the advice has got nothing to do with
fiduciary responsibilities?
MR. RUBIN: If it has nothing to do with
fiduciary responsibilities, Your Honor, we think it
would be a breach of fiduciary obligation to get --
waste the trust money paying for the advice and to act
upon it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, no. It's a
reasonable -- let's say a railroad stock is a reasonable
investment for a trust. He just wants to know which one
is the best one.
MR. RUBIN: We think that this is intended
as a categorical rule. And we think that asking that
question is in furtherance of these unique obligations
and the prudent investor standard, which is not -- this
is a new standard that's developed in the United States
over the next decade or so. It is not merely what a
prudent man would do under the old Harvard College v.
Amory common law test.
Investments that individuals can and do
invest in are not open to trustees who have a series of
rules, some of which are counterintuitive, in fact,
about what they can do. And these are listed at pages 7
to 10 of our brief. But that -- what you're describing
we think is investment advice and if it's properly
obtained it is distinctive.
I should say also in response --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How can it be
distinctive if the advisor doesn't even know that the
person's a trustee?
MR. RUBIN: Well, the question is the
decisional process of the trustee. When the trustee
calls up anyone, the income tax preparer, and says I'd
like to hire you, he doesn't have to say at the moment
of hiring it's for a trust.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, when it's
filled out --
MR. RUBIN: He'll figure it out --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- he knows it's on
Form 1041 rather than 1040.
MR. RUBIN: He will eventually come to know
that the form is different, Your Honor, yes. But I
don't think the subjective knowledge of the person from
whom one gets the advice is the question. The question,
I think, is textually directed to the incurment of the
cost.
And I should say also in part of response to
part of Justice Breyer's question, the statutory history
isn't merely the legislative history. It's the fact
that, despite having just the first prong in it when it
was passed by both houses of Congress, there was a floor
amendment in the Senate on the day that it passed the
Senate that dealt with pass-throughs. The first part of
67(c), and the changes made in the conference committee,
again as the Commissioner acknowledges at page 37 of her
brief, the changes made in conference, including the
addition of this, were to deal precisely with how should
we deal with pass-throughs and trusts, and trust
ownership of pass-throughs --
JUSTICE BREYER: There's nothing that I
could find anywhere that talked about pass-throughs in
respect to the special situation of trusts and estates.
In the first sentence it speaks to it in respect to
individuals. It all makes sense. And what they seem to
be saying is just what I said initially. We do agree
trusts do have a special claim, but only in respect to
special trust expenses. And which are they? They're
the ones an individual wouldn't have incurred.
And I'll put a gloss on it, like we do in
law. I say a reasonable individual. I say wouldn't
reasonably have incurred. And then I leave it up to the
IRS to say which are the expenses that an individual
would likely incur and which ones he wouldn't likely
incur.
Now, that runs throughout tax law, doesn't
it, that kind of list, what's a necessary expenditure,
what isn't. I mean, they do that all the time, don't
they?
MR. RUBIN: Yes, Your Honor. Regulations,
however, have to be both reasonable --
JUSTICE BREYER: Not buying into they're
thing with "could." I mean, that isn't my problem.
MR. RUBIN: Okay. If they drew a list of
what are the distinct trust costs, it would have to
include, if it includes fiduciary, income tax
preparation or, better yet, judicial accounting,
individual duties in the case of guardianships and so
on. This is of the same caliber and at the same level
of generality we think would have to be covered.
JUSTICE ALITO: But have they issued a
regulation drawing up this list at this point?
MR. RUBIN: There's only a proposed
regulation, Your Honor. And we believe that because
their readings are not textually supportable, are
unadministratable and aren't what Congress intended,
that after applying the ordinary tools of statutory
construction, there is only one meaning that this text
can have.
I'd like to respond to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why is it not
administerable? Whether you think it's a faithful
rendition of the statute is one thing, but this is
exactly what Justice Breyer was talking about. It says
these are the things that are special to the trust, and
then these are the things that are not. That's what the
proposed reg does, right?
MR. RUBIN: Yes, Your Honor. It is -- it's
a little bit of a moving target but it does say that.
If those are nonexhaustive lists and the difficulty of
allocating these costs of attributing them to one thing
or another, putting in place systems that trustees that
charge unitary fees, which is what corporate trustees
do, is enormous. And some of this can be seen in the
comments, the public comments to the regulation, some
excerpts of which are included in the appendix to our
reply brief.
But this is not a simple test. And indeed,
the Commissioner essentially concedes that, saying that
she would need to have safe harbors or some other
unprincipled line because of the difficulty.
I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Rubin.
Mr. Miller.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Section 67(e) creates a narrow exception to
the 2 percent floor for costs which would not have not
have been incurred if the property were not held in
trust.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It wasn't narrow in the
beginning, right?
MR. MILLER: Well, that's correct, Your
Honor. The second clause was added in a floor
amendment. Initially Congress had drafted just the
"which are paid" -- "which are incurred or paid in
connection with the administration of the estate or
trust." Then the second clause was added. And that
clause demands that the costs would not have been
incurred if the property were not held --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is somewhat of a
mystery, the wording of that clause. And since it came
in at the very last minute, isn't it appropriate to give
it a limited reading, rather than, in your suggestion,
that this provision that up until the very end read just
administration, "costs paid or incurred in connection
with the administration of the estate or trust,"
period? And then there was this add-on. Why should we
give that an expansive meaning?
MR. MILLER: I think, regardless of the
timing, Your Honor, Congress chose to enact it and that
choice has to be given effect. And I think when you
look at the way that the section as a whole is set up,
67(e), the first introductory clause creates the general
principle that for purposes of this section the adjusted
gross income of an estate shall be computed in the same
manner as in the case of an individual, except that, and
then there is clause one.
So in the context of this section, we have a
general rule and then an exception. And that ought to
be interpreted in light of the usual principle that
exceptions, particularly ambiguous exceptions, should
not be construed so as to swallow up the entirety of the
rule, which is essentially what Petitioner's
interpretation would do.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you think that the
only instances where the expense would not have occurred
are those instances where it could not have occurred?
That doesn't strike me as self-evident.
I mean, I understand why you do it, so that
can you have a nice clear line, which I am all for. But
the line given by your colleague is just as clear. I
don't know why I should accept yours when -- I mean,
"would" just does not mean "could." I mean, would have,
could have, should have, it's -- they're different
words.
MR. MILLER: Well, they are -- they're
certainly different words. We're not suggesting that
they are synonyms. But we are suggesting that there are
contexts in which the word "would" can carry the same
meaning that is also expressed through the word "could."
JUSTICE SCALIA: Give me a context where --
where -- other than this statute, where in common
parlance people use "would" to mean "could."
MR. MILLER: Another example would be if I
were to say that that glass would not hold more than 8
ounces of water, that would mean that it could not hold
more than 8 ounces of water.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I don't think it would
mean that.
JUSTICE BREYER: A glass --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Anything that could not be
done of course would not be done. But that doesn't mean
that the -- that the two words mean the same thing.
MR. MILLER: But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's true that one is
included within the other, but they don't mean the same
thing.
MR. MILLER: Would -- I think that the
unadorned use of the word "would" here --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What could not happen would
not happen, of course. But it doesn't mean that -- the
two concepts are not the same.
MR. MILLER: I think, when -- when you have
the word "would," as we have in this statute, that's not
qualified in any way, it's ambiguous in the sense that
it can mean definitely would not have been incurred,
probably would not have been incurred, customarily,
ordinarily would not have been incurred, which is the
meaning --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You didn't think
much of this argument before the Second Circuit adopted
it, did you? You didn't argue this before the Court of
Appeals?
(Laughter.)
MR. MILLER: We did not argue it before --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you have a
fallback argument.
MR. MILLER: Well, that -- that's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, now might be a
good time to fall back.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Before -- I mean, we have
lots of good examples. I mean, I could have colored my
room at home, painted it with light green plastic, but I
wouldn't have done it. I mean, endless examples.
MR. MILLER: Right. And certainly the
statute also admits of the reading given to it by the
Fourth and Federal Circuits, which is that "would not
have been incurred" means customarily or ordinarily
would not have been incurred by individuals.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we can rush to the
fallback position, is it acceptable to have a test that
says would the expense have been incurred if the
nontrust business wanted to achieve an objective that
the trust wanted to achieve here, fixing the roof?
MR. MILLER: I -- I think that that raises
the question of what is the relevant comparison group
for -- for individuals outside of the trust side of it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I think the structure
of the statute requires us to -- to do that.
MR. MILLER: That's right. And -- and we
would suggest that the relevant comparison is
individuals with -- with similar assets, right, because
it's in the absence of a trust, not if the property did
not exist. So you have to look at an individual who
held those assets outright, and an individual with those
assets trying to achieve those goals might well seek
investment advice.
JUSTICE ALITO: Will, you give as an example
of something that wouldn't fall within the 2 percent
floor the cost of preparing and filing a fiduciary
income tax return. What is the difference between that
and getting fiduciary investment advice?
MR. MILLER: The -- the difference is --
JUSTICE ALITO: Just because it's a
different form that's filled out?
MR. MILLER: What --
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it more expensive to --
to fill out a 1041 than to fill out the 1040?
MR. MILLER: It's more expensive because
it's an additional cost. If an individual were to hold
the property outright, he or she would simply put the
income from that property on his own 1040. If in
addition there is a trust, then the trust has to fill
out a 1041, the trust also has to prepare Form K-1s and
send them out both to the beneficiaries and to the IRS,
showing the beneficiaries' share of the trust income,
and then the individual still has to file a 1040. So
the existence of the trust has created this whole
additional set of filing and reporting obligations.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but it's the
individual who has to file the 1040. What the trustee
is filing is the 1041. And -- and why do you place -- I
was going to ask the same question that Justice Alito
did, and that is why do you place so much significance
either in the label, i.e., it's fiduciary return, or in
the peculiar fact that it is a fiduciary who is filing
that return?
It's a tax return and -- and I think your --
the government's argument is that with respect to -- to
other items that may be disputed, you should regard them
at a fairly general level, i.e., investment advice, not
fiduciary investment advice. But when you come to the
tax return, you don't regard it as a general -- at a
general level; you regard it at a very specific level,
i.e., a fiduciary tax return. It seems to me that the
government with respect to the tax return is doing
exactly what it criticizes the taxpayer for doing with
respect to investment advice. And I don't understand
the distinction.
MR. MILLER: With respect to the tax return,
it's not that it's a fiduciary tax return as opposed to
an individual tax return; it's that it's an extra tax
return that has to be filed.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it's the only tax
return that the fiduciary has to file; isn't that
correct? The fiduciary files that tax return and the
beneficiary files a 1040.
MR. MILLER: That's right, but if the
beneficiary --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the only return the
fiduciary's filing is the 1041; isn't that right?
MR. MILLER: That's the only -- but in that
-- in the system of the beneficiary and the fiduciary
there are two tax returns that have to be filed, whereas
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay; I understand that
that is a factual difference, but I don't understand
what it is that makes that a difference in principle.
MR. MILLER: I think that -- that's an extra
obligation that would not have been incurred in the
absence of the trust. And I think, turning to the case
of investment advice, I think there is really no level
of generality or particularity at which one can look at
investment advice such that there is anything unique
about trust investment advice.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, can't you ask it --
can't -- can't you ask this question pointing towards
something unique: If the individual investor does a
very poor job of managing his investments, all he can
ultimately do is cry about it. But if the trustee does
a very poor job, the trustee is going to get sued. So
that when the trustee asks for an investment advisor's
advice, the trustee is addressing an issue that the
individual does not have. The trustee wants to be
covered. He also, I presume, wants to be a good
trustee. But he is in fact doing something which is, to
use your phrase, in addition to what the individual
investor would do. He is looking out for somebody else
and he is looking out for himself if the investment goes
south. Why isn't that a sufficient difference that is
at least comparable to the difference that you talk
about in the filing of a fiduciary tax return?
MR. MILLER: It's not a difference, because
if the individual invests poorly he'll lose money. And
if the -- and he'll lose his own money. If the
fiduciary invests poorly he may get sued and the measure
of damages in that suit will be the amount of money he
lost. So they're both facing the possibility of losing.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but whether -- whether
he gets socked with damages or not is going to depend in
part whether he is covered by an investment advisor's
bit of advice; and that is -- that is a different item
in the calculus of liability. He is providing for
something that the individual investor does not provide
for or need to provide for.
MR. MILLER: Well, the -- the standard of
conduct that is supposed to govern the fiduciary is the
prudent investor rule, which looks at what a reasonable
prudent individual would do in managing his own money so
I think that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I have the same
problem. You know, I -- it seems to me that it is
entirely reasonable to say only a trustee can seek
investment advice concerning what he should do to
fulfill his responsibilities under the trust. Only a
trustee can do that. A private individual might seek
investment advice as to how he could maximize the income
or -- or the growth of the funds that he has, but
only -- only a trustee seeks advice as to how he can
fulfill his responsibilities under the trust. And you
could say that's distinctive. No individual would do
that because he's not a trustee.
MR. MILLER: But there's no distinction in
that case in the -- in the fee that's charged or in the
advice that's given by the investment advisor. In
either case somebody goes to the advisor and says, I
have the following goals that I want to achieve with
this money. It may be my money; it may be a trust's
money. And the advisor thinks about those goals and
comes up with -- with investment advice. And those
goals --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It may -- it may well be
the same advice, but in -- but in one case it is -- it
is advice sought by and given to a trustee, a unique
kind of advice. In -- in substance, it may turn out to
be the same; but it's not the same advice you're giving
to a private individual. You're saying here's the trust
instrument and here are the objects to be achieved by
the trust instrument and this is the -- the advice that
will best do that. That doesn't happen with an
individual.
MR. MILLER: I mean, but for the fact that
the word "trust" is in there, I think the substance of
the interaction with the investment advisor is exactly
the same.
JUSTICE ALITO: But doesn't your proposed
regulation concede that there is investment advisory
advice that is unique to -- to estates and trusts?
Isn't that what subparagraph C says?
MR. MILLER: No. Subparagraph C has two
lists, both of which are nonexclusive: a list of items
that are unique to trusts and a list of items that are
not unique to trusts. In the list of items that are not
unique to trusts is investing for total return. There
is no type of investment advice --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why that limitation? Why
wouldn't it say just "investment advice," but it's --
investing for total return is more limited?
MR. MILLER: I think perhaps because that's
most obviously the type of advice that is not unique to
trusts. But the -- the proposed regulation does not
identify any kind of advice that is unique to trusts.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It doesn't say it's one
or the other. So it's not so sure, right? It's sure
about advice on investing for total return.
MR. MILLER: And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In other words, the
regulation, the proposed regulation, doesn't answer this
case of investment advice in general as opposed to
advice on investing for total return.
MR. MILLER: You're right that the
regulation in terms of the enumeration in subsection (b)
is silent on the question of other types of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can you really spice up
advice that way? You ask the advisor, say, which --
what percentage of your advice was the advice that went
to maximizing total return and what percentage went to
this other thing? I mean, gee, I don't want to get
courts into trying to figure that out, or private
individuals or financial advisors in trying to figure
that out. That's just a crazy way to run a tax system,
it seems to me.
MR. MILLER: I think that's right, and
that's why I think that the -- despite the fact that
investing for total return is the only example given in
the list, which, again, is described as not exclusive.
I think the best reading of the proposed regulation is
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's not all advice.
That's just some of the advice, right?
MR. MILLER: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, what about the rest of
it? How do you slice up, you know -- now, investment
advisor, tell me what percentage of your advice went to
the total return and what percentage went to other
things. I don't think the investment advisor is going
to be able to tell you.
MR. MILLER: I think the best reading of the
proposed regulation, and perhaps the Service may well
clarify this during the rule-making process, is that all
advice is not unique to trusts because there's no type
of advice that a trustee could seek that an individual
could not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They certainly weren't
sure about it when they drafted this regulation,
proposed regulation.
MR. MILLER: Well, it is -- it's just a
proposal, again, and I think they picked what's perhaps
the most obvious.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in other categories,
they express no such limitation. Custody or management
of property, not qualified. And they -- but when you
get to investing, it has that total return. Everything
else has got maintenance, repair, insurance.
MR. MILLER: That's right. And there's also
a fairly extensive list of nonexclusive -- of nonunique
products or services, and that does not include any
other type of investment advice. So I think what one
can draw the opposite inference from that list, but in
any event, that's something that could be clarified in
the rule-making process.
Returning to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So how does your
customary or commonly incurred test work? Let's say you
have two trusts, one $10 million, the other 10,000. I
think an individual with $10 million might well seek
investment advice, but an individual with only 10,000
might decide it's not worth it. Would you have a
different application of the 2 percent rule for those
two trusts?
MR. MILLER: I think if the test is whether
-- whether the individuals would have -- would commonly
ordinarily incur that cost, I think one might well look
at that because the comparison would be individuals with
similar assets, and, as Your Honor knows, there might be
a difference depending on the size.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How many -- how many
individuals do you need? Let's say it's $3 million in
the trust, and we think maybe 60 percent of people would
hire an investment advisor; 40 percent would think they
can do just as well on their own. Is that customarily
incurred by individuals?
MR. MILLER: I think it might well be enough
that -- for something that the Service could clarify
through --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your answer to both
questions is "might well be," and that's a fairly vague
line when it comes to taxes.
MR. MILLER: The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And whatever line you --
you pick, I guarantee you, trusts are going to break
themselves up into mini-trusts that fall under the line.
I mean people aren't stupid.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or, even worse,
advisors are going to break themselves up into different
advisors. There's going to be somebody who says I'm a
fiduciary advisor whenever a trustee calls, but, I'm a
normal advisor, when it's an individual.
MR. MILLER: I think the difficulty in
applying that test is one of the reasons why we suggest
that the categorical -- the more categorical approach,
which we think is also a permissible reading of the
statute, is the preferable one. But, in either event,
if the test is customarily or ordinarily incurred, it
was Petitioner's obligation in the tax court to show
that they qualified for the exemption from the 2 percent
floor. And so it would be Petitioner's burden to show
that this is a cost not that's customarily or ordinarily
incurred by individuals.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's your best
case for that proposition? Your colleague resisted the
notion that he had the burden and what's your best case
for that?
MR. MILLER: It's not a case, but it's the
rule. Tax Court Rule 142 places the burden of proof on
the taxpayer. Petitioner sites --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I thought that
rule applied to the applicability of individual
exemptions. Here we have a different question. It's
how to read an exception to the general rule. Do you
have a case for a proposition that the taxpayer has the
burden in those cases? You said that in your brief, but
it didn't have a case cite with it.
MR. MILLER: No. We don't have a case, but
the rule is unqualified in terms of its applicability.
It doesn't say only on particular issues. And the case
that Petitioner cites is United States against Janis,
which is about a "naked" assessment, which is far
removed from what we have here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you saying --
MR. MILLER: A "naked" assessment is --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are we saying, as a
question of law, the taxpayer has the burden of proof?
If it isn't a question of proof, it isn't a question of
evidence?
MR. MILLER: No. I was referring to
questions of fact. I understood the question to be if
the legal test turns on the factual question of what is
it, what is customary or ordinary for individuals to
incur, then on that fact, that would be a factual issue.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what would -- that's
why I made the suggestion I had earlier. I was doubtful
about the wisdom of trying to turn this matter into a
purely factual one. And so suppose you said, which
would come to about the same thing, that expenditure
would be incurred in this instance by someone who didn't
hold these assets in trust. What that means is would a
-- an investor not in the trust, not holding it in
trust, reasonably have been, or a reasonable investor
have been likely to make this expenditure? That turns
it into a more quasi-legal question where people -- and
then it's a matter of judgment, which these things do
come down to. That's what judges are there for, to
judge. And thereby we avoid the burden-of-proof
problem. It comes to about the same thing. Is there
any objection to it? What's the reason not to do it?
MR. MILLER: If that is the test, then it's
very easy to apply to the case of investment advice,
because we know that the trustee's obligation is to act
as a reasonable and prudent individual would. And so we
know that if -- to the extent that the trustee seeks
investment advice in pursuance of that obligation --
JUSTICE BREYER: But are you --
MR. MILLER: -- that would --
JUSTICE BREYER: You would be, of course,
exactly right, that there could be trusts, very big
trusts. Children get into fights trying to split up the
assets. Millions is paid on lawyers and investment
advisors to see if each share, figured 14 different
ways, is going to earn this money or that money. And
that kind of thing exists. And there the investment
advisors are likely to be special. So you can't say
investment advice is always special or never special.
Now, again, this seems to me not unknown,
this kind of problem, to the Internal Revenue law, and
therefore there tend to be methods of allowing
exceptions, of putting burdens. I mean, is this case
somehow -- am I wrong about that?
MR. MILLER: I think that to the extent that
you're suggesting that the Service could be -- could
clarify the statute through the use of regulations, we
certainly agree with that. The service has the ability
to resolve some of the ambiguities.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm looking really for a
form of words to write that does not use the word
"could" but which gets at what I think the statute was
after, which is: Let them have this no floor for their
special stuff but not for ordinary stuff that others
would have incurred regardless. I want to know what
form of words. I find it difficult to go beyond the
statute, frankly.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think "would not have
occurred" is pretty good --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- actually.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's right. That's
right.
(Laughter.)
MR. MILLER: The -- the formulation that the
Service has proposed of course is to look at costs that
are unique to --
JUSTICE BREYER: If I reject this word
"could" and "uniqueness," now what form of word should I
write?
MR. MILLER: I think "ordinarily" or
"customarily" is also a permissible interpretation of --
JUSTICE BREYER: If had you to choose
between that and getting the idea of the reasonable
taxpayer who didn't hold this in trust, which would you
choose?
MR. MILLER: I think they are actually very
similar inquiries, because we expect that the reasonable
person is the ordinary person. So I think in practice,
those formulations get you to the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It almost sounds like
ordinary and necessary under 162?
MR. MILLER: Well, ordinary and necessary
under -- I mean here we are talking about -- as
Mr. Rubin said, it's under 212.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: 212. I understand that.
MR. MILLER: It's not in connection with a
trade or business. Ordinary and necessary in that
context means simply that it's a legitimately connected
to the production of income. That's a requirement for
it to be deductible at all.
JUSTICE ALITO: It seems to me the
difficulty is in characterizing the level of generality
at which you describe the cost, not whether it's
ordinary or customary or unique. You run into the same
problem no matter how you do that, but you have to
decide whether you're talking about investment advice or
fiduciary investment advice, tax preparation costs or
fiduciary tax preparation costs. And what is the
formula for making that distinction?
MR. MILLER: I think what the Service is
trying to do in the proposed regulation and what we have
suggested is appropriate is simply a common sense
practical approach to that. And there may be some
difficult cases at the margin. And that's one of the
things that the service will try to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And this must be one.
The Service must think this is one because it was
certain about the tax return. It says tax return that
doesn't get the subject to the 2 percent but only this
kind of investment advice for total return. So that the
Service didn't see this as a clear and certain category.
MR. MILLER: Again, I think what the Service
was doing there was picking out just the most obvious
example. But there simply is no such thing as fiduciary
investment advice that is distinct from --
JUSTICE ALITO: How do we deal with this
problem until there is a regulation? It may be that if
the Service issues a regulation and says that these fall
into one category and these fall into the other, that
would be entitled to a deference. But right now we
don't have a regulation, right? So what do we do?
MR. MILLER: I think what we have suggested
is there are two -- there are a couple of possible
readings of the statute based on the ambiguity in the
word "would." And in the absence of a regulation, we
are not suggesting that the Service's position is
entitled to deference under Chevron. But I think some
deference to the consistent position of the Service
since the statute was enacted that the investment advice
be subject to the 2 percent floor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you the same
question I asked your adversary? Whether you use the
term "could" or "customarily" or whatever you're
formulating, the bottom line, as I understand your
position, is that these costs will never be deductible?
MR. MILLER: They will -- they will be
deductible but they will be subject to the floor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But they will never -- you
would not say some trusts yes, and some trusts no?
MR. MILLER: Well, under -- I mean, if the
test were customarily or ordinarily, it might be the
case that a trust could show that given the nature of
the assets in it, if it were --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would you have to have a
case-by-case analysis of the facts as to whether the
particular advice would have been sought, whether the
advice was by a trustee or by an individual?
MR. MILLER: It's not -- we are not
suggesting that it's at the level of that particular
advice. The question would be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The cost of the advice?
What percentage of the costs incurred by a trust do you
think the investment advice consists of? I mean, it
seems to me the main thing a trustee ordinarily does, at
least if he is a trustee of just cash, is to invest it.
It seems to me his major expense must be getting
financial advice, isn't that right?
MR. MILLER: I don't know the answer to
that. The Service --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, imagine something
else. Guess. What other, what other expense could even
approximate that?
MR. MILLER: One --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And then my follow-up is,
is there any -- I don't care about legislative history
but some of my colleagues do. Is there any -- is there
any indication that Congress thought it was, it was
whacking trusts with this immense new tax with respect
to their major expenditure? I expect it must be their
major expenditure.
MR. MILLER: To take your second question
first, the legislative history is silent on specifically
what Congress's objective was in section 67(e).
JUSTICE SCALIA: The dog didn't bark.
MR. MILLER: But I think -- but I think what
one can infer from legislative history of the '86 Act
and more broadly and from the text of the statute is
that Congress wanted property to be treated the same,
regardless of whether it was held by an individual
outright or held by a trust. So if an individual would
incur certain costs if he held the property outright,
those costs shouldn't be able to escape the 2 percent
floor simply because the property is placed into a
trust. But if the trust -- the existence of the trust
relationship creates some new or additional costs that
would not have existed otherwise, then those are not
subjected to the 2 percent clause.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you know a trust is
sort of like a business. And deductions that an
individual could not take if he were not in a business
are perfectly okay for a business. And I don't know why
trusts wouldn't be treated the same way. A trust has to
get investment advice. True? When it's -- when it's an
individual getting it, you wouldn't allow a deduction,
but a trust is different.
And unless Congress is clearer than this
statute, I -- it seems to me that no individual would
get trust investment advice. Only a trust can get trust
investment advice.
MR. MILLER: Well, individuals could get --
could and do get investment advice that is no different
in substance from the advice the trust might get. And a
trustee might decide that he didn't need investment
advice if the trustee is financially sophisticated and
doesn't need an advisor. To go --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if you get a
bill from the investor advisor, and it's $50,000 and
it's broken up, 30,000 is general stock picking advice,
and 20 percent is specialized fiduciary advice? In
other words, they figure out what good stocks are they
pushing these days and they go down and say, well,
you're a trustee, you can't buy this you can't buy that.
You would -- would you agree that the $20,000 is not
subject to the 2 percent floor but the 30,000 is?
MR. MILLER: Yes. As we acknowledged in our
brief, if the advisor -- or another example would be if
the advisor imposed some extra charge on the fiduciary
accounts for whatever reason, that would be an expense
that an individual going to that same advisor could not
incur or ordinarily would not incur.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the individual who
wanted to maximize income, for example, if the trustee
has to maximize income for some of the life
beneficiaries or something, an individual could seek
that same advice if he wanted that particular result
from the investment, couldn't he?
MR. MILLER: That's right. I understood the
question to refer to the case where the advisor charges
some extra fee because the client is a trust.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I didn't understand it
to be that. I thought it was going to be, you know, the
advisor had to figure out we need so much for the, for
the remainder man and so much for the life beneficiaries
and so forth. You don't think that would be enough?
MR. MILLER: No. No. It wouldn't be.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Miller.
Mr. Rubin, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PETER J. RUBIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. RUBIN: Trust investment advice is
always distinct from the investment advice that's given
to individuals, both because of the demanding legal
obligations specifying certain factors that have to be
taken into account by the trustee in investing and
because of the risk of personal liability.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What do you have to
support that? I resist accepting that broad
proposition, and I don't know where to look or who to
ask in order to determine its -- its truth or falsity.
MR. RUBIN: Well, I think, Your Honor, if
you look at, at our brief, at pages 7 through 10, there
is a discussion of the specific legal factors that are
codified in Connecticut law in the Uniform Prudent
Investor Act, which does not, as the Commissioner
suggested, require people to invest as a prudent
individual, but it's a different standard.
So, for example, safe investments,
conservative investments are not permitted any more in
many circumstances to trustees when an individual could
well engage in that kind of investment. Investment in
areas that the trustee is familiar with is not adequate
to meet this obligation. So the advice really is
tailored as a matter of state law in the trust
instrument in every case to the trust.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it could also be
tailored to an individual with particular circumstances
that are similar to that of the trust. So an individual
could incur it. An individual with the same amount of
money involved probably would incur it.
MR. RUBIN: No trust, Your Honor, has
exactly the same circumstances as a trust, because
trusts always have, by definition, more than one
beneficiary. There is always a remainder beneficiary,
at least. Ordinarily there will be --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So an individual
might have more than one child he wants to provide for
and as far as a remainder, there may be more than one
grandchild. It could be exactly the same -- an
individual could have exactly the same objectives as a
trustee.
MR. RUBIN: The decision process for the
investments will be different in the case of a trustee,
though, than for an individual. And a trust, of course,
could be multigenerational. This trust will probably
last for about a hundred years from the time that it was
initially adopted.
I should also say --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Rubin, is it the advice
that's different or is it -- is it the inquiry that's
different.
MR. RUBIN: Both. The decision -- the
decision to hire the investment advisor is an exercise
of fiduciary judgment taking into account these -- these
factors; and the advice that you're paying for is a
different service that's tailored to the trust. This,
therefore -- the Commissioner acknowledges that -- that
the -- that trusts are distinct. But -- but resists
the -- the analogy between, for example, fiduciary
income tax returns or judicial accountings and other tax
returns.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Rubin, is there a
subcategory of investment advisors who hold themselves
out to be fiduciary investment advisors?
MR. RUBIN: I believe, Your Honor, there may
be specific fees for trust investments that are offered
by firms that -- that provide investment advice.
Whether there are specific advisors who will take only
fiduciary clients, I don't --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Or even those who
advertise themselves as specialists in fiduciary advice?
I never heard of them. Maybe there are.
MR. RUBIN: Well, I think that this actually
points out, Justice Stevens, part of the problem with
the Commissioner's position, which is it relies on
labels. The Commissioner has said it's a common --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: As far as a tax return,
are there accountants this specialize in trust tax
returns as opposed to individual or corporate returns?
MR. RUBIN: Not that I know of, Your Honor.
My sense is that an income tax preparer will be willing
to prepare an income tax return for a fiduciary or an
individual. I see that my time has expired.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Rubin. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
administration 37:16 40:17,18 applies 3:22 avoidance 13:20
administrative advisory 36:8 40:22 a.m 1:16 3:2
55:10 admits 29:22 34:12 12:14 13:5
33:7 53:20 23:7 44:4 46:10 b 37:8
adversary 47:14 50:20 appropriate back 8:23,24 9:9
20:16,18,23 allow 50:1 argue 6:16 29:7 bears 5:17
30:18,23 32:2 allowing 43:23 argued 5:22 behalf 1:18,22
34:25 35:3,5 ambiguity 47:6 2:2,7 3:3,7 believe 8:18
35:13 36:9,16,18,21 amendment 51:22 beneficiaries
38:1,5,12,13 amount 34:8 articulated 7:4 51:15
22:22 54:5 43:20 46:3,4 amounts 3:13 asking 21:5 17:15 32:18,20
49:8 48:3,4,7,8,10 analysis 17:3 assessing 6:1 best 11:24 12:15
48:14 49:25 48:2 assessment 21:3 36:1
33:23 53:22 54:3,15 answers 13:9 15:2,2 18:25 24:3
49:17 advisor 7:10 apparently 15:4 30:17 39:21 big 43:13
21:21 35:11,12 APPEARAN... 47:25 bit 24:25 34:13
50:12,14,23,24 applicability assumption bottom 3:15
54:1 application attributing 25:2 bought 19:10
13:6 51:10 colleague 27:16 conduct 34:18
24:20 5:13,25 10:10 12:10 13:2 come 6:1 19:6 14:22 15:5
29:17 11:20 14:10 19:19 20:10,25 19:21 22:8 16:19 17:17
43:10,12 17:4 20:7 24:4 21:20 22:3,6 32:3 42:17,25 18:8,10,16
27:1 33:7 25:14,19 29:5 comes 35:16 22:18 24:12
35:10,12,19 29:11,14 39:9 40:9 43:2 26:4,20 48:24
14:17 43:5,24 47:24 51:19 52:24 Commissioner 13:18 49:5
20:1 51:10 52:23 53:9 55:7 1:8 3:5 4:8 connected 45:20
22:23 53:16 55:8,9 child 53:10 6:16,18 14:16 Connecticut
41:19 cases 5:18 41:19 Children 43:14 17:12 19:16,24 12:20,22 20:9
52:10 46:11 choice 26:21 22:22 25:10 52:12
48:2 Circuit 29:6 3:25 4:1,2 consequence
40:23,23 53:5 common 5:22 conservatively
categories 38:21 cite 41:20 6:21,25 7:3 11:23
cause 10:1 14:25 claimed 4:16 commonality consistent 4:5
13:21,24 ceiling 5:7 clarify 38:11 commonly consists 48:10
45:19 certain 6:14,14 40:5 44:3 19:16 39:10,18 construction
6:22 15:19 clause 18:11 community 8:15 24:14
49:13 52:2 27:2 49:19 34:2 context 5:3
38:15 18:22 27:15,16 compression contexts 27:24
changes 22:21 clearly 18:21 concede 7:7 36:8 7:23
50:24 15:7 18:2 concerning corporations
Custody 38:22 Department distinctive 4:3 enumeration
19:16 29:2,24 depend 34:11 8:4 9:10,16 equal 11:7
13:15 customariness depletion 10:1 dog 49:6 escape 49:14
30:21 6:17 describe 10:12 doing 32:7,8 especially 18:6
39:19 customary 45:25 33:22 46:20 ESQ 1:18,20 2:3
45:25 39:10 42:11 described 15:8 dollar 6:24 2:5,8
46:1 17:17 37:22 dollars 6:5 essentially 9:21
8:20 D 21:16 drafted 26:4 estate 3:18,20
10:9 D 1:20 2:5 3:1 despite 22:17 38:16 8:21 10:21
14:7 25:17 37:20 draw 8:9,11 15:21 26:6,16
24:1 damages 34:8 determine 7:3 39:5 26:25
26:8 34:11 52:8 drawing 24:8 estates 4:6 16:14
44:22 danger 14:13 developed 21:8 draws 4:7 7:20 18:1,3 23:4
47:17 day 22:19 difference 20:5 drew 23:25 36:9
49:13,14 days 50:18 30:22,24 33:3 duration 12:24 estate's 3:13
deal 22:24,25 33:4 34:1,2,4 duties 24:4 event 39:6 40:25
22:20 19:20,20 22:9 E 42:7
43:12 39:14 46:3 40:17 41:16 earn 43:17 32:8 36:5
53:17 50:10 43:16 50:2,8 easier 8:11 43:13 53:5,12
5:19 14:14 53:15,25 53:24 54:4 economic 15:18 examination
29:7 54:1 differently 6:23 effect 26:21 17:14
decisional 13:14 difficult 44:12 either 7:1 12:13 examine 12:22
34:12 45:22 47:17,19 40:21 45:24 16:24 30:19 37:21
49:17 18:3 49:21 discussing 19:19 engage 52:19 examples 19:9
6:20 46:6 47:9 excerpts 25:7
factual 33:3 32:22 34:3 fully 7:17 20:14 31:19
31:14 faithful 24:18 37:16 48:14 future 11:6 good 29:15,18
fall 14:1 29:15 financially 33:21 44:15
23:18 falsity 52:8 first 3:4,22 5:17 5:12 26:23 government's
49:1 familiar 52:20 14:23 17:12 27:4 32:2,4,5 5:1,20 31:25
far 41:25 53:11 22:17,20 23:5 37:5 41:17 governor's 4:25
Federal 29:23 fixing 8:3,12 generality 24:6 grandchild
8:22 9:1 35:10 51:11 30:5 getting 4:17 grantor 15:1,18
18:23 fees 4:10 7:16,22 floor 4:11 8:16 30:23 45:5 15:19,23 16:7
27:11 25:4 54:14 8:19 9:2 20:17 48:13 50:1 17:16
48:13,18 fiduciary 4:4 22:18 25:22 Ginsburg 10:22 great 13:22
7:19,21 10:11 26:3 30:21 11:3 14:20 green 29:19
10:6,24 12:3 20:3,19 47:12,19 49:15 24:17 25:25 group 30:7
18:18,19 20:21,22 24:2 50:21 26:10 36:17,24 growth 12:25
30:21,23 31:21 following 35:13 37:3 38:15,21 35:4
51:11 32:22 44:21 37:21 47:24 happen 28:20,21
33:22 figuring 6:19 four 51:21 go 12:15 44:12 13:10,12,13
37:20 file 31:13,17 Fourth 29:23 50:12,18 harbors 25:11
32:16 fraction 6:20 goals 30:17 hard 8:8
17:15 19:18 indicates 16:18 14:3 16:19 33:14,24 34:15
26:9 important 6:13 indication 48:24 21:4 24:12 34:19 42:20,21
49:11,12 importantly individual 4:23 interaction 36:5 50:14 52:13
19:22 6:5 7:13 8:25 Internal 1:8 3:5 investors 6:5
22:1 24:2 39:3 24:4 27:1 introduced 5:23 IRS 19:6,7
54:1 included 25:7 30:15,16 31:6 introductory 23:14 31:11
48:22 22:23 35:2,7,23 36:2 21:13 48:12 issues 41:23
income 3:13 5:3 38:13 39:12,13 52:14 46:25
31:6 14:18,25 20:3 43:7 48:4 36:19 37:1,6 itemized 5:10
45:6 20:4,5 21:25 49:11,12,22 37:21 38:24 items 32:1 36:12
24:2 26:25 50:1,4 51:1,3,6 52:3 36:13,14
8:7,10 55:4,5 individuals 5:23 11:9,11,16,24 J 1:3,18 2:3,8
12:5,18 income-splitti... 11:4 13:4 17:1 12:1 13:11 3:7 14:21
14:4 16:16 18:2 18:5,17 21:12 20:8,12 21:2 51:22
17:10,23 incur 11:1 23:15 23:6 29:25 21:17 30:18,23 Janis 5:24 41:24
20:21 23:16 39:19 30:8,13 37:16 32:2,3,9 33:8 job 33:15,17
23:21 42:12 49:13 39:18,20,24 33:10,11,18,25 judge 43:1
26:3 51:2,2 53:2,3 40:3 41:6 34:12,25 35:3 judges 42:25
39:21 incurment 42:11 50:7 35:11,16 36:5 judgment 42:24
53:4 22:12 52:1 36:8,16,18 54:2
55:3 incurred 3:17 infer 49:8 37:5 38:4,7 judicial 3:22 6:4
10:13,15,19,20 inheres 11:14 43:20 46:3,4 3:9 4:12 5:5,11
26:5,9,15 29:1 inquiries 45:9 50:5,6,8,10 9:19,24 10:3
inquiry 53:23 51:8,24,25 10:22 11:3,8
Knight 1:3 3:4 32:5 33:8 main 48:11 methods 43:23
18:12 know 7:11 8:3 45:24 48:6 maintenance Michael 1:3 3:4
20:10,25 9:9 11:11,25 liability 34:14 38:25 Miller 1:20 2:5
22:3,6 12:2,13,14 52:4 major 48:13 25:16,17,19
23:2,23 13:6 19:11 life 51:5,15 49:1,2 26:2,19 27:21
20:13 21:2,21 light 18:13 27:5 making 13:24 28:4,14,18,23
22:8 27:17 29:19 46:6 29:10,13,21
27:10 34:23 38:4 limit 7:14 man 21:10 51:15 30:6,11,24
43:6,8 44:11 limitation 36:17 management 31:2,5 32:11
29:5 48:15 49:20,23 38:22 7:22 8:22 32:19,23 33:5
51:13 52:7 limited 26:13 38:22 34:4,17 35:9
55:3 36:19 managing 33:15 36:3,11,20
knowledge line 4:8 7:20 8:2 34:20 37:2,7,19 38:2
33:2 22:10 8:9,11,13 20:7 manner 27:1 38:9,18 39:1
34:10,22 knows 12:7 22:6 25:12 27:15,16 margin 46:11 39:17 40:4,10
36:7,17 39:21 40:9,11,13 matter 1:14 40:21 41:11,21
37:3,10 K-1s 31:10 47:16 42:15,24 46:2 42:3,8 43:4,11
38:3,15 liquid 6:6 12:12 52:22 55:10 44:1,21 45:2,8
39:9,23 L liquidity 12:24 maximize 35:3 45:14,18 46:7
L 1:4 list 23:18,25 51:4,5 46:19 47:4,18
42:2,4 label 31:21 24:8 36:12,13 maximizing 47:22 48:5,15
43:10,12 labels 54:24 36:14 37:22 37:13 48:20 49:3,7
land 9:22 39:2,5 mean 3:23,24 50:7,22 51:9
45:4 language 8:18 listed 21:15 6:20,25 8:2 51:17,20
9:3 17:20 lists 19:8 25:1 10:4 15:15 million 6:5,24
47:13 Laughter 29:9 36:12 23:19,24 27:14 12:12 39:11,12
48:1,8 29:16 40:15 literally 17:13 27:17,18,18 39:24
49:6 44:20 litigated 5:19 28:3,6,9,12,13 Millions 43:15
50:13 law 11:4,22 litigation 5:21 28:16,21 29:1 mini-trusts
12:22 18:9 little 24:25 29:17,18,20 40:13
53:9 20:9 21:11 logic 4:2 36:3 37:14 Mintz 14:21
54:10,18 23:12,17 42:5 look 10:18 17:24 40:14 43:24 minute 26:12
55:7 43:22 52:12,22 18:2,6 19:25 45:15 47:22 minutes 51:21
5:5 13:17 52:11 looking 14:21 means 18:23,23 15:12 16:5
30:1,9 legislative 18:12 33:24,25 44:6 29:24 42:19 20:23 34:5,6,8
52:5 22:16 48:22 looks 34:19 45:20 34:20 35:14,14
legitimately losing 34:9 measure 14:22 53:3
35:21 11:22 20:11,11 lower 15:1,13 52:21 moving 24:25
43:18,22 21:1 39:10,24 merely 16:17 multigenerati...
52:19 level 24:5 32:2,5 M 21:9 22:16 53:18
ounces 28:6,7 16:8 22:20,25 pick 40:12
10:14,15 11:17 outside 7:13 paying 20:23 piece 7:24
19:25 52:21 owned 8:20 9:18 pendency 5:21 placed 49:15
obligations 4:4 owner 7:24 8:25 people 6:21 places 41:12
12:7,19 21:6 10:15 15:2 28:3 39:25 plastic 29:19
obtained 21:18 owns 9:21 52:14 please 3:10
25:11 obvious 38:20 P 7:14 8:16,19 plenty 19:8
39:24 46:20 P 3:1 9:2 14:8 15:9 point 6:13 17:24
51:14 obviously 36:21 Pacific 20:14 20:17 25:22 19:22 24:8
47:17,20 27:11,12 44:15 12:20 14:17 40:1 41:3 points 3:21 4:12
offered 54:14 15:8 20:1 46:16 47:12 54:22
okay 20:10 pages 21:15 50:21 poorly 34:5,7
39:2 old 21:10 10:4,14,18 38:6 48:9 17:6 30:2 47:8
open 21:13 43:15 49:23 possibility 34:9
15:10 option 12:15 22:15,20 34:12 permits 18:3 powers 15:19
options 12:3,4 54:22 permitted 18:5 practical 46:10
oral 1:14 2:2 3:7 particular 6:17 52:17 practice 45:10
order 15:13 52:8 41:23 48:3,6 19:1 22:10 precisely 18:13
30:4 49:5
proposed 24:9 49:3 51:10 regard 10:13 resolve 44:5
37:4,23 38:10 40:8 42:9 regardless 17:7 18:17 23:4,5,8
12:14 protection 4:23 R 3:1 24:10 25:6 1:22 2:6 25:18
provide 34:15 railroad 20:15 36:8,22 37:4,4 response 10:4
provided 4:9 raises 30:6 46:24,25 47:3 responsibilities
13:24 21:7,10 reading 3:25 4:5 related 7:9 51:7
33:4 52:12,14 26:13 29:22 relationship retains 15:19
purely 42:16 40:24 relevant 18:14 31:21,23,24
53:3,18 purposes 15:21 16:22 17:13 relies 54:23 32:13,14,16,17
15:5,7 pursuance 43:9 real 15:17 51:15 53:7,11 36:15,19 37:1
23:24 pushing 50:18 really 4:19 5:15 remaining 51:21 37:6,13,21
43:2,22 put 23:11 31:7 8:2 33:8 37:10 removed 42:1 38:6,24 46:15
54:22 puts 4:7 44:6 52:21 rendered 8:19 46:15,17 54:25
38:11 43:24 50:25 rendition 24:19 Returning 39:8
53:15 reasonable repair 38:25 returns 20:5
qualified 28:25 23:12,22 34:19 reply 25:8 55:2,2
42:5,6 question 3:11 23:13 42:21 require 52:14 revocable 15:20
5:2 7:24 10:2 16:10,24 2:7 51:22 requirement 30:13 32:19,22
8:5 9:21 19:3 21:6,23 receive 7:8 45:21 36:25 37:7,19
17:15 22:11,11,15 13:16 requires 12:22 38:1 39:1
26:9 30:7 31:19 recipe 13:19 30:10 43:13 44:18,19
31:7,8 33:13 37:9 recollection 5:8 reserve 25:13 47:2,3 48:14
49:10,13 41:16 42:5,6,6 refer 51:10 resist 52:6 51:9
42:9,10,23 referring 42:8 resisted 41:8 risk 14:5 16:15
6:3,9 7:6 runs 9:21 23:17 27:13 slightly 5:20 statute 3:12,23
12:10 rush 30:1 Senate 22:19,20 socked 34:11 3:25 4:1 7:18
20:10,25 send 31:11 Solicitor 1:20 7:19 9:4 13:19
22:3,6 S sense 4:5 10:11 solved 15:7 16:17,18 18:11
29:5,11 S 2:1 3:1 8:21,23 23:6 28:25 somebody 11:12 18:15 19:14,17
39:9,23 9:17 10:7 46:9 55:4 33:24 35:12 19:23 24:19
41:7 safe 25:11 52:16 sentence 18:14 40:18 28:2,24 29:22
50:13 saying 18:9,24 18:15 23:5 somewhat 26:10 30:10 40:25
52:24 23:7 25:10 separate 14:24 sophisticated 44:3,8,13 47:6
55:7 35:23 42:2,4 14:25 50:11 47:11 49:9
30:5 30:3 35:12 40:5 44:2,4,22 sought 35:20 statutory 3:23
3:6,7,9 SCALIA 8:1,8 48:16 54:4 45:12 Stevens 16:23
5:8,14 6:7 9:5,8,14,19,24 services 39:3 SOUTER 31:16 17:19 47:13,20
7:15 8:7 10:3 15:14,23 Service's 47:8 32:15,21 33:2 48:1 54:10,18
9:6,13,16 16:1,4 27:10 set 12:19 15:21 33:12 34:10 54:22
10:2,9,22 28:1,8,11,15 26:22 31:15 south 34:1 stock 21:1 50:15
12:5 28:20 34:22 severalfold speaks 23:5 stocks 50:17
13:9 35:18 37:10,25 19:14 special 10:25 straight 4:15
38:3 40:11 share 31:12 18:18,19,24 strike 27:13
44:14,17 48:8 43:16 19:4 23:4,8,9 structure 16:17
17:9 48:17,21 49:6 show 41:2,4 24:21 43:19,20 16:18 17:25
19:13 49:20 51:3,12 47:24 43:20 44:10 30:9
21:4,23 53:22 showing 31:12 specialists 54:19 stuff 44:10,10
23:21 schedule 14:25 shows 18:13 specialize 55:1 stupid 40:14
24:9,24 second 3:24 side 30:8 specialized stupidity 16:24
45:16 18:11 26:3,7 sides 4:20 50:16 subcategory
29:6 49:3 significance specific 32:5 54:11
53:4,15 section 3:15 31:20 52:11 54:14,16 subject 4:10 5:7
54:10 15:7 16:11 silent 37:9 49:4 specifically 5:18 5:9 8:16,19 9:1
55:3 17:25 18:4,4 similar 30:13 16:15 49:4 20:17 46:16
25:21 26:22,24 39:21 45:9 specifying 52:2 47:12,19 50:21
17:7 17:24 43:16 simply 9:21 splitting 14:18 submitted 55:8
27:4,8 46:18 55:6 13:18 18:15 standard 7:4 55:10
39:15 seek 30:17 34:24 31:7 45:20 11:9 21:7,8 subparagraph
35:2 38:13 46:9,21 49:15 34:17 52:15 36:10,11
39:12 51:6 sites 41:13 state 52:22 subsection 37:8
21:14 seeks 12:1 35:5 23:4 States 1:1,15 35:21 36:4
39:7 seen 25:5 sizes 19:20 21:8 41:24 substantial 14:7
14:13,14 15:9 51:18,19 55:7 55:6 51:11,24 52:22
31:24 32:4,6,7 24:19 25:2 total 36:15,19 trustee 1:3 3:5
47:4 32:15,17,25 42:17 43:2,18 38:6,24 46:17 10:4,5 11:12
34:3 37:17 46:21 48:11 trade 4:21,22,24 11:15,17,21
44:2 46:15,15 48:25 10:10 12:23 Treasury 15:4 13:21 20:11,13
48:6 54:8,8,25 55:1 14:8 24:21,22 treat 11:7 18:17 20:16 21:22,24
42:14 taxation 15:13 46:12 15:20 16:13 33:16,17,18,19
24:11 42:5 45:6 9:10,14 11:10 trial 7:2 48:12 50:10,11
tell 20:12,16 17:2,23,24 49:25 53:16
34:18 telling 15:4 21:17 22:10,12 3:19 4:22 6:23 12:22 21:13
38:16 tend 43:23 28:8,18,23 10:21,25 11:14 trustlike 13:1
test 6:15,18 37:19,20,23 15:12,16,17,18 16:14 18:1,3
30:2 39:12,17,19,25 16:1,4,7 18:20 22:25 23:4,8
54:4 TESTAMEN... 46:14,19 47:4 24:1,21 25:24 43:13,14 47:21
20:11 testimony 14:21 49:7,7 51:16 30:14 31:9,9 49:24 53:6
54:16 14:23 52:9 54:21 31:10,12,14 54:6
45:15 textually 16:22 51:13 47:24 48:9 trying 9:8 18:16
17:13 22:12 three 3:21 4:12 49:12,16,16,16 30:17 37:15,16
28:13,22 41:22 WILLIAM 1:4 1 40,000 7:12
36:11 unwise 17:21 willing 10:23 1 15:7
47:5 upkeep 8:15 55:4 10 21:16 52:10 5
39:4 28:19 33:23 word 27:24,25 39:11,13 51 2:9
20:6 22:7 6
60 39:25
19:15,19 wording 26:11
31:4,10,18 67(e) 3:15 25:21
44:7,12
11:03 55:9 68 18:4
41:12 7
v 1:7 3:5 5:24 worse 40:16
18:4 7 12:20 21:15
4:17,19,20 52:10
32:9 vague 40:8 wouldn't 7:7
45:17 vehicle 9:23 17:9 18:20 5:4,7,8,9 45:13 8
51:12 versus 12:24,25 23:10,12,15 1986 14:21
28:5,7
W 2
49:24
51:17
14:13 35:13 8:16,19 9:1
13:8 51:4,7 47:12 49:14,19
33:10,14 wants 11:23 50:21
36:9,13 12:13,15 21:2 X 20 50:16
33:20,21 53:10 x 1:2,10 2007 1:12
44:23 Washington 212 4:18,19,24
1:11,18,21 Y 4:25 5:1,3
water 28:6,7 $ 25 2:6
21:8 28:25 37:11,17 $10,500 15:10
$100,000 6:23 3
$349,000 15:11 30,000 50:15,21
