IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1646
GINO GONZAGA RODRIQUEZ. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 15, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:07 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Petitioner.
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:07 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in Case 06-1646, United States v. Rodriguez.
Mr. Shanmugam.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
The Armed Career Criminal Act is one of the
Federal Government's most important tools for
incapacitating serial offenders who commit serious
crimes, and, like other Federal recidivism statutes, the
ACCA defines the prior offenses that trigger its
application based partly upon the maximum terms of
imprisonment for those offenses. The question presented
in this case is whether the relevant maximum term of
imprisonment for an offender who was already a repeat
offender is the maximum to which repeat offenders were
subject to that offense.
Alone among the circuits, the Ninth Circuit
held that the relevant maximum for a repeat offender is
instead the maximum to which first-time offenders were
subject, even though that purported maximum would
sometimes be lower than the term that a repeated
offender would actually receive. Because the ACCA
cannot support that counterintuitive and counterfactual
approach, the judgment of the Ninth Circuit should be
reversed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Shanmugam, what is the
government's position as to a person who is not a repeat
offender? He commits the crime for the first-time. Now
the government says there are alternative maximums and
you have to pick whichever maximum is the higher. Why
wouldn't that maximum apply to the person who commits
the crime the first-time?
MR. SHANMUGAM: That is because, Justice
Scalia, we believe that the text of the ACCA naturally
accommodates the possibility that there may be
alternative maximum terms of imprisonment for a given
offense. The provision the ACCA at issue, Section
924(e)(2)(A)(ii), defines a serious drug offense as "a
State drug trafficking offense for which a maximum term
of imprisonment of 10 years or more is prescribed by
law," and we believe that that language is susceptible
to the interpretation that the maximum for a repeat
offender is the maximum to which repeat offenders were
subject and the maximum for a first-time offender is the
maximum to which first-time offenders were subject. And
that is particularly true because Congress --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're adding something to
the elements of the crime and in all of our cases in
this field we look to the elements of the crime.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, to be sure, Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And as far as the elements
are concerned, the maximum sentence for those elements
you say is the sentence that would be imposed upon a
repeat offender.
MR. SHANMUGAM: To be sure, Justice Scalia,
the ACCA speaks of the maximum term of imprisonment for
the offense. But a higher sentence for repeat offenders
is no less a maximum for the offense than the lower
sentence for first-time offenders. This Court's cases
involving challenges to recidivism statutes make that
clear because they have uniformly held that a recidivism
enhancement constitutes a stiffened penalty for an
underlying offense.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You seem to -- you
seem to flinch from the natural consequences of your
position in not looking at the maximum for a particular
offender. For example, you know, under some guidelines,
if he was the ringleader his sentence can be enhanced
beyond what would otherwise be the maximum for a
first-time offender, but you say you don't take that
into consideration.
MR. SHANMUGAM: I don't that we're flinching
from those consequences, Mr. Chief Justice. I think
that it is simply a consequence of the fact that the
statute does speak of the maximum term of imprisonment
for the offense, not for the offender. And, while we
believe --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is that
different from your position here, where it is the fact
that the individual is a recidivist that causes you to
look to a different maximum?
MR. SHANMUGAM: It is because, Mr. Chief
Justice, that we believe that the language of the
statute can be susceptible to the interpretation that
there can be alternative maximum terms of imprisonment
for broad categories of offenders, such as recidivists
and non-recidivists. But we don't think that it can --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that's the reason
you sort of pull back from a more aggressive reading,
because it's not as broad a category?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, it would lead to harsh
results for first-time offenders and we certainly think
that Congress --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but only if
they're subject -- only if they have some characteristic
that had caused the State legislature to give the higher
maximum, such as being the ringleader or some other
enhancement.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, that's correct. But
with regard to the text of the statute, we simply
believe that the text of the statute cannot be stretched
to accommodate the possibility of individualized maximum
terms of imprisonment for every offender based on the
potentially infinite combinations of facts that may
determine an offender's guidelines range. And I think
it's important to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there any statutes
which talk about offender as opposed to "offense" in
this area, do you know?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think probably the
closest analog in the criminal code, Justice Kennedy,
would be the statute that was at issue in RLC. I
believe it's 18 U.S.C. 5037(c)(1)(b), which provided at
the time that the court was construing it that the
maximum -- that the sentence that a juvenile should
receive should be no higher than the maximum that an
adult offender should receive. And the court did
construe that statute to refer to the maximum that an
adult could receive under the guidelines.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, there was also the
statute involved in the LaBonte case, where -- where the
statute said the Sentencing Commission "shall assure
that the sentencing guidelines specify a sentence to a
term of imprisonment at or near the maximum term
authorized for categories of defendants who have certain
types of prior convictions."
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that did focus on the
-- on the nature of the defendant and not on the element
of the crime.
MR. SHANMUGAM: It focused on categories of
offenders and there Congress's concern was obviously
with career offenders. But I think critically in the
LaBonte opinion itself, written by Justice Thomas for
the Court, the Court recognized the possibility that a
statute could establish alternative maximum terms of
imprisonment for recidivist and nonrecidivist offenders.
The Court specifically discussed the Controlled
Substances Act, which does exactly that. Now, to be
sure the language of that statute was somewhat
different, but in our view the critical lesson of
LaBonte is simply that it is possible for a statute to
establish alternative maximums and the statute at issue
here no less than the statute at issue in LaBonte
accommodates that possibility.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it would be easy, of
course, if recidivism were an element of the crime --
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, it would be easier to
accept that if a State --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- for a crime which
includes the act plus the recidivism?
MR. SHANMUGAM: If a State, Justice Scalia
were to essentially define a new crime of drug
trafficking by a recidivist, then to be sure by
definition the maximum sentence for that offense would
be the maximum to which repeat offenders were subject.
But to say one more thing in response to the Chief
Justice's question about guidelines maximums, I do think
that it is critical to remember that Congress enacted
the ACCA in its present form in 1986, well before this
Court's Apprendi jurisprudence took root, and at that
time Congress surely would have conceived of the
relevant maximum as the offense-specific statutory
maximum, and we know that Congress viewed that maximum
as a discrete creature from the relevant guidelines
maximum because in passing the Sentencing Reform Act 2
years earlier, the statute that gave rise to the Federal
guidelines, Congress smoke specifically about statutory
maximums as distinct from guidelines maximums. And
certainly we believe --
JUSTICE ALITO: In light of Apprendi and the
later cases, do you think it's feasible any longer to
draw a distinction between, between statutes that make
recidivism an element of the offense and statutes that
originally conceived of recidivism as a sentencing
factor but now provide for that to be proven to a jury?
MR. SHANMUGAM: One of the virtues of our
approach, Justice Alito, is that the answer is in some
sense the same whether a legislature defines drug
trafficking by a recidivist as a distinct offense or
whether recidivism is simply a sentencing factor that
gives rise to an alternative maximum term of
imprisonment for the underlying offense of drug
trafficking. And our fundamental submission with regard
to the Court's Apprendi line of cases is simply that it
alters nothing with regard to how the ACCA should be
interpreted because, again, Congress was defining
"offense" in 1986 in its colloquial sense as essentially
what the legislature defines the offense to be. And to
be sure, it is a prerequisite for a fact to be an
offense element that it be submitted to the jury, but
all this court did in Apprendi line of cases was
effectively to state a procedural constitutional rule
under which a sentencing factor that raises the
applicable maximum sentence has to be submitted to the
jury.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Shanmugam, I didn't
understand what you said about Congress's intent with
regard to the guidelines when it passed ACCA. You're
saying Congress did not have an eye to the guidelines,
but simply had an eye to the maximum sentence within
which the guidelines were applicable?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes, that's correct. In the
Federal system, that would of course be the statutory
maximum. In some State systems, of course, the
guidelines are themselves statutory and for that reason
we refer to them in our brief as offense-specific
maximums. But the critical point with regard to the
Sentencing Reform Act is that Congress did believe that
there was such a thing as the maximum for the offense,
and indeed in Section 994(r) of Title 28, one of the
provisions of the Sentencing Reform Act, Congress
actually asked the Sentencing Commission to come back
with recommendations to alter those offense-specific
maximums, which we believe is certainly evidence that
Congress viewed that as something distinct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does it matter what was
the sentence actually imposed in the State court? That
is, suppose it is a second offense, but the prosecutor
chooses not to charge as a second offender and so,
although it is in fact the second offense, he is
sentenced in the State court as a first offender. Would
it count under your reading of the Federal statute that
it was a second offense?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Our position, Justice
Ginsburg, is that it would count because the relevant
inquiry is whether the offender was potentially eligible
for an enhanced maximum sentence as a repeat offender as
a substantive matter. That having been said, we
certainly believe that in the mine run of cases a court
applying the ACCA will merely need to resort to the
judgments of conviction or other judicial records in
order to determine the maximum to which the defendant
was actually subject. And this case of course presents
a perfect example of that because the judgments for each
of Respondent's prior convictions made clear that he was
in fact subject to a 10-year maximum sentence as a
repeat offender.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I take it -- supposing
there's a dispute between the prosecutor and the
defendant as to whether in fact he was a recidivist or
not. Is the fact that there was just an argument that
he would be a recidivist enough or does the record have
to establish that he was a recidivist?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, if there were such a
dispute, certainly we believe, first of all, that ACCA
courts would be perfectly competent to resolve those
disputes. They are no different in kind from the sorts
of legal and factual issues --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Shouldn't the mere
existence of a dispute be enough, because then at least
he's potentially subject to being treated as a
recidivist.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, our view, Justice
Stevens, is that once the government comes forward, for
example, with a judgment of conviction that indicates
that the defendant was subject to a 10-year maximum, it
would then be incumbent on the defendant to come forward
with evidence suggesting that that was erroneous to the
extent that a defendant would be permitted to
collaterally challenge that prior sentence at all. But
we do believe that courts can resolve those disputes.
Now, if the Court were to disagree and to
conclude that, for comparable reasons to the reasons
that the Court articulated in Shepard, it would be
difficult for courts to resolve those determinations,
then I suppose that we could live with a rule that said
that the government is limited to judicial records like
a judgment of conviction. But Taylor and Shepard of
course were dealing with a quite different concern, the
concern of how to define the prior offense, and I would
submit that the factual disputes that the Court was
concerned about in Shepard are quite different from
disputes about the applicability of a recidivism
enhancement. Those were disputes about the actual
underlying facts of the underlying substantive offense
itself. And the Court suggested in the plurality
portion of Justice Souter's opinion that resolving those
sorts of factual disputes might raise constitutional
concerns.
But we certainly believe that by virtue of
the rule of Almendarez-Torres, at a minimum the
resolution of factual disputes ancillary to the fact of
a prior conviction fall within the scope of the
Almendarez-Torres rule and present no constitutional
difficulties.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Shanmugam, I take it
that your response to Justice Ginsburg's question would
basically be your response to the argument that the
other side makes, that on your theory a State
misdemeanor can be treated for purposes of the act as --
or a conviction for a State misdemeanor can, with the
recidivism enhancement, be treated as a felony?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes. That issue would
arise, of course, only under the definition of "violent
felony," which sets a one-year trigger rather than the
ten-year trigger that is contained in the definition of
"serious drug offense."
I think that the only point that I would
note is that, with regard to an offense that remains a
misdemeanor, even when it is committed by a repeat
offender, there is a distinct statutory provision which
we cite in our reply brief, 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(20), which
tinkers with the definition of what constitutes a
qualifying offense for purposes of the definition of
"violent felony." It says that if it's a misdemeanor,
the sentence, the applicable sentence, actually has to
be two years or more. But where a State actually says
that when you commit an offense and it becomes a felony
when you are a recidivist, then certainly we think that
there is no problem with treating such an offense as an
ACCA predicate for purposes of the triggering maximum
term of imprisonment.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But if they continue to use
just the State terminology such that they continue to
use the word "misdemeanor" with respect to an offense,
which with the enhancement carries more than a one-year
penalty, then the two-year provision, the two-year
threshold provision, kicks in?
MR. SHANMUGAM: That's absolutely correct,
Justice Souter, and I believe that that was actually the
fact pattern that was presented in the ACCA case that
this Court heard earlier this term, Logan.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes.
MR. SHANMUGAM: And in a footnote in its
opinion, the Court noted this very peculiarity of how
ACCA operates and how you need to have a two-year
maximum rather than a one-year maximum if the State
still treats the offense as a misdemeanor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do all States treat first
convictions from other States -- do they all count for
recidivism qualification if the prior offense was
committed and the conviction was in another State?
MR. SHANMUGAM: States do have somewhat
different rules, Justice Ginsburg, as Respondent
correctly points out, though I would note that many of
the sort of factual and legal issues that would arise
under those different rules arise outside the
drug-trafficking context. Most States' drug-trafficking
recidivism provisions, as least those States that have
adopted the Uniform Controlled Substances Act provision,
operate in a quite straightforward manner because they
essentially sweep in all prior drug offenses.
That having been said, we are unaware of any
ACCA cases that have presented those sorts of
difficulties. And typically what one would find, if one
looked at Respondent's cases, is that most States by now
have fairly clearly defined rules for determining when
an out-of-State conviction qualifies. And so at most,
if it were unclear from the judgment of the prior
conviction whether the prior sentencing court had
determined whether the defendant was subject to the
enhanced maximum as a recidivist, it would be a
relatively easy task for a Federal ACCA court to apply
those largely settled rules in order to make that
determination.
I do want to say one more thing about the
text of the ACCA more generally, and that is that if the
Court, as Justice Scalia had suggested at the outset,
were to conclude that the statute is susceptible to the
interpretation that there can be only a single maximum
term of imprisonment for a given offense, we believe
that it would not necessarily follow that Respondent's
interpretation is correct, and indeed that the more
natural consequence of that interpretation would be that
the relevant maximum is the maximum that any offender
could receive, rather than the maximum that a first-time
offender could receive, and that is because --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Surely not,
Mr. Shanmugam. You were talking about broad categories
earlier. It seemed that the broad category in the
situation you posit would be the normal offender rather
than the recidivist, and that's the one we ought to look
at.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, that might be true as
a numerical matter, though, you know, I suspect that
there are probably more recidivist offenders than one
might think. But I think that the fundamental
difficulty with Respondent's interpretation is the
anomaly that I identified at the outset, namely that
even an offender who actually received a term of
imprisonment of 10 years could be said to have a maximum
of 5 years. And while it is true that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know, but
you began your discussion by saying we had to choose one
maximum. You were accepting that requirement. It seems
to me, if that's the case, it's clear that we ought to
pick the maximum for the particular offense without
considering additional enhancements.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, with respect,
Mr. Chief Justice, I would disagree. I would submit
that if the Court has to choose a single maximum it has
to be the maximum that the worst offender could receive.
As a matter of common sense, when one thinks about the
maximum --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you don't accept
that approach when we're talking about enhancements
under State guidelines. You know, if the normal
sentence is whatever it is, 10 years, and you get an
extra 2 years if you're the ringleader, you say no, you
don't look at that; you just look at the 10 years.
MR. SHANMUGAM: That's correct, and that's
because of the statute's reference to the offense and
not the offender. But my submission is simply that if
the Court thinks that the statute is susceptible to the
interpretation that there has to be one maximum and
indeed if the Court thinks that that interpretation is
compelled, then we would submit that all offenders who
commit an offense for which some offenders could receive
a 10-year sentence would be subject to the ACCA. But we
of course primarily submit that the statute is not only
susceptible to the interpretation that we advance here,
but that it is the better interpretation, namely that a
statute can have alternative maximums. And we certainly
believe that that interpretation is consistent with the
long history and widespread practice of imposing
enhanced penalties on repeat offenders, a practice that
Congress surely was aware of when it enacted this
statute dealing with the problem of recidivism.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Shanmugam, would you
explain to me again why -- why you treat the enhancement
in a State guideline system differently?
MR. SHANMUGAM: It is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me that if you
get an enhancement as a ringleader it's the same thing
as if you get an enhancement because you're a
recidivist. What's the difference?
MR. SHANMUGAM: The difference, Justice
Scalia, is that the statute does speak of maximum terms
of imprisonment for the offense and not the offender,
and, while we certainly believe that the language of the
statute with its reference to "a maximum term of
imprisonment" can naturally accommodate the possibility
of alternative maximums for broad tiers of offenders
such as recidivists and nonrecidivists, we really don't
believe that it can accommodate the possibility of
individualized maximums for every offender.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't think
"ringleader" is a broad tier.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, in a sentencing
guidelines system where being a ringleader may be the
basis for an enhancement, as it is in the Federal
system, the fact remains that an enhancement under a
guidelines system is merely one of many factors that
ultimately determine the offender's guideline sentence.
A guideline sentence is, of course, an individualized
determination made after a court evaluates a panoply of
offender- and offense-specific factors.
JUSTICE STEVENS: How would you treat an
enhancement --
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we believe that such
an enhancement could be subject to our alternative
maximums approach as well, to the extent that the
standard was --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So it's not just
recidivist and non-recidivist. It's some enhancements,
but not all enhancements?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, if a statute is as a
formal matter structured in such a way as to create
broad tiers of punishment for categories of offenders,
then certainly that would seem to be an alternative
maximum term of imprisonment. The guideline systems, of
course, are not structured in that way.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You're depending upon the
guidelines.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Right. Well, that's
correct, and so in Apprendi, of course, I think it was
the fact that the defendant had acted with a biased
purpose, and that form of structuring of statutes was
not unheard of prior to this Court's decision in
Apprendi. And essentially what New Jersey did, as I
recall, in Apprendi was to say that if you unlawfully
possess a firearm your maximum is 10 years.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, I understand, but my
point is I don't think your proposal just has two
categories. There -- it seems there could be multiple
kinds of enhancements that would fit your general
description.
MR. SHANMUGAM: And the relevant question,
Justice Stevens --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It's not just recidivist
versus nonrecidivist.
MR. SHANMUGAM: This case does not present
that issue; and, in light of the history and practice of
imposing heightened penalties on recidivists, an
essentially universal practice as far as we're aware in
the drug-trafficking context, we certainly don't believe
that the Court has to address that issue.
And, in any event, after this Court's
decision in Apprendi, it is certainly true that States
have made modifications to the structure of their
offenses and their sentencing systems such that, with
regard to factors other than recidivism, it may very
well be that as a prospective matter that issue would
not arise very frequently. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, some of them have
simply said, we're going to let the jury decide. We're
going to let the jury make these determinations that
Apprendi says have to be made by the jury. But they're
still -- they're still referred to as sentencing
factors.
MR. SHANMUGAM: That's correct, Justice
Scalia. And, with regard to a State that does that as
Washington, indeed, has done in the wake of this Court's
decision in Blakely, we believe that the relevant
offense and the relevant maximum term of imprisonment
actually remains the same.
And that is simply because where all a State
does is to say that sentencing factors must be submitted
to the jury in order to comply with the constitutional
rule of Apprendi and Blakely, the fact remains that the
State has not redefined the offense. In our view, a
sentencing factor can remain a sentencing factor even if
it is the functional equivalent of an offense element
for Apprendi purposes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me your
argument might be slightly better if the statutory term
was "authorized," not "prescribed." I don't say
"prescribed" could never be used in the sense you mean,
but when you have alternates we usually would use the
word -- alternate possibilities -- usually you'd use the
word "authorize" rather than "prescribe." "Prescribe"
indicates one rule.
MR. SHANMUGAM: I suppose that may be true,
Justice Kennedy, though again the statute spoke about
the maximum term of imprisonment for the offense, which
I think presupposes, at least to some extent, that the
maximum may be higher than the maximum to which a
particular offender is subject.
I think the only thing I would say with
regard to the reference to "prescribed by law" in the
ACCA is that one could naturally understand that phrase
being used by a Congress that was acting in 1986 as
referring to the prescribed statutory maximum.
And, notably, the Ninth Circuit in a case
that we cite in our opening brief, United States v.
Parry, construed that phrase in exactly that manner in
actually holding that, notwithstanding its rule in this
case, the applicable maximum for a defendant sentenced
under a mandatory guidelines system cannot be the
applicable guidelines maximum; It has to be the maximum
for the offense. We believe that the Ninth Circuit
erred only insofar as it thought that that maximum is
the maximum to which first-time offenders were subject,
even for a repeat offender.
Mr. Chief Justice, I'd like to reserve the
balance of my time.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I ask you one question
before you sit down? You mentioned a moment ago what
you saw as the anomaly in the counter-argument, the
anomaly being that someone with the recidivism
enhancement could end up with a ten-year sentence when
the maximum for the offense is five years. But isn't --
isn't the answer to that just as -- as the answer that
you gave to Justice Scalia a moment ago, and that is
simply that the statute speaks in terms of "offense" so
that there is -- there is no anomaly in getting a
ten-year sentence for something which for this purpose
carries a maximum of five?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Souter, an enhanced
penalty for repeat offenders is every bit as much a
penalty for the offense as the lower penalty for
first-time offenders.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's the question
in the case.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, and that is a question
that this Court has answered in a variety of different
contexts dating back almost a hundred years to Graham v.
West Virginia. And we would submit that that principle
is certainly equally applicable here, and a penalty for
a recidivist, while in some sense holding a recidivist
more responsible by virtue of his or her recidivist
status, is every bit as much a penalty for the offense.
And under our alternative maximums approach that can be
the maximum for the underlying offense.
I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Rothfeld.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
There are a number of serious problems with
the government's theory in this case, and I'll start
with this one. It is inconsistent with the statutory
language of ACCA, as is suggested by the R.L.C. and
LaBonte decisions that have been discussed already; and
it cannot be reconciled with the fundamental purpose of
ACCA, which is reflected in that statutory language.
Congress enacted ACCA to target particular
categories of serious offenses. Whether the defendant
is a repeat offender says nothing at all about the
seriousness of the offense that he committed and
therefore tells us nothing about whether that offense
should be treated as an ACCA --
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose the State has two
statutes: Possession of drugs, maximum penalty five
years; possession of drugs by a convicted felon, maximum
-- convicted drug felon, maximum penalty ten years. And
a defendant is convicted under the latter provision.
What would be the maximum penalty for ACCA purposes?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, if that latter
provision includes as an element of the offense that
recidivism, that could be a different situation than we
have here, because the statutory language of ACCA, as
Mr. Shanmugam said, focuses on "offense." Congress said
that an ACCA predicate in the drug context is an offense
for which a maximum penalty of ten years or more is --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, it could be or it
would be?
MR. ROTHFELD: I think that's a difficult
question, Your Honor, which is not the question here. I
suppose I would say the language would suggest that it
would be; that if it is an element to the offense the
defendant has been convicted of an offense that includes
recidivism as an element, that statutory language would
lead us in that direction.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if the maximum penalty
there would be ten years, then what if in this case the
recidivist element had been submitted to a jury and
found by a jury. Would it matter?
MR. ROTHFELD: I would suggest, again, it
depends upon what the element defined by the State
legislature is in creating the offense, because that
follows from the ACCA term of the offense, the
punishment prescribed by law for the offense. That is,
of course, not the question here. And it's --
JUSTICE ALITO: Why should the label matter?
Maybe as to statutes that were passed before Apprendi
and Booker, that at that time it made a difference.
But, going forward, what difference does it make whether
it's labelled as an element of the offense or a
sentencing enhancement that's proven to a jury?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think in the
post-Blakely context one could say something that has to
be proven to a jury is in fact an element of the
offense. The offence may essentially be defined in
terms of the sentencing guidelines elements at that
point.
But I think in figuring what Congress had in
mind when it used the term defining "ACCA serious drug
offense" as "an offense for which a maximum penalty of
ten years is prescribed by law, we have to figure out
what is the offense and what is the penalty prescribed
by law for that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, going back to what
you first said, suppose with your own children: I told
you half an hour ago not to interrupt your sister when
she is doing her homework. This is the second time
you've done it. Wouldn't you, with your own child -- I
would with mine -- think that the second time he did it
was worse behavior than the first time? I just told him
not to.
MR. ROTHFELD: It is a familiar example,
Your Honor.
(Laughter.)
MR. ROTHFELD: And -- and it's absolutely
right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if it's absolutely
right I don't see why we hold Congress to some kind of
weird -- not weird, but more picky standard than we do
with our own children.
MR. ROTHFELD: But the reason for that, Your
Honor, in this context is the language that Congress
chose. It is certainly correct that, generally
speaking, it is thought that repeat offenders should be
subject to a higher punishment, and that there is a --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because their behavior is
worse.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, but I think there is a
distinction between whether the offense itself is a more
serious offense. I mean, the ACCA statutory language
uses the term "serious drug offense." That's part of
the definition That's used in the statutory text.
Congress had in mind punishing through the
ACCA process offenses that have a certain level of
seriousness. And when Congress did that it was
reflecting on what people actually did. That's the
whole context of this Court's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not a more serious
offense when she does it the second time; it's just a
more culpable offender.
MR. ROTHFELD: That is precisely right.
JUSTICE BREYER: That isn't what I tell my
child. I say you behaved worse.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I can't disagree with
that, Your Honor. But this is -- this is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, does the word
"offense" -- I haven't come across it, but does the word
"offense" have some kind of special technical meaning
that doesn't just mean the behavior which calls into
play all kinds of circumstances?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think the Court has
-- has repeatedly recognized the distinction suggested
by Justice Scalia's latest question, which is that there
is a difference between the offense and the offender.
As Mr. Shanmugam said -- and we agree
completely -- ACCA is an offense-specific provision. It
does not focus on the offender. The government would
like to read ACCA as though it made a distinction based
upon different categories of defendants. And it's
interesting that the way in which the question is
presented in their brief and in their question presented
in the petition for certiorari is not in terms of the
ACCA statutory language. It does not ask: What is the
penalty prescribed by law for this offense? It asks:
Could repeat offenders be subjected to an enhanced
penalty of ten years?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Isn't it pertinent,
Mr. Rothfeld, that in trying to decide whether a maximum
term of imprisonment encompasses recidivists, we're
dealing with a statute that itself is directed to
recidivism. You're asking -- you've got three previous
convictions and then you get a particularly harsh
sentence. If recidivism is what you're trying to
address, it would seem to me in deciding what a maximum
term is that it would be natural to assume that they
would take recidivism into consideration in that context
as well.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think not, Your
Honor, because ACCA is a particular kind of recidivism
statute. There are recidivism statutes common in the
States now, with the three strikes regime becoming
ubiquitous, in which all that matters is basically the
number of offenses that were committed. The States
expressly disavow the seriousness of the offenses that
constitute the predicates in those kind of regime.
ACCA is different kind of statute. ACCA was
motivated because Congress was concerned that there was
a small cohort of offenders who are engaging repeatedly
in serious offenses, and Congress had in mind that
people who engaged repeatedly in these especially
threatening, dangerous, harmful offenses, very
destructive to society, they should be segregated for 15
years through the ACCA mandatory minimum.
But Congress was quite clear, and the
statutory language reflects this expressly, that the
predictates have to themselves be serious offenses.
Congress was concerned with what people did.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it just
seems to me that if you have Congress addressing what
they regarded as a very serious problem of recidivism,
they would think that that's a problem that should be
taken into account in determining what maximum sentences
you're subject to under State law.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, they could have done
that. They could -- and that would have been the
statute the government is discussing, one which ties
recidivism into the particular category of the offender
and the penalties to which they are subject.
But Congress did not do that. Congress
focused specifically on the seriousness of each of the
individual predicate offenses. And it had in mind what
people actually did, whether the kinds of offenses they
were committing were serious destructive types of
offenses.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it did use the
language "a maximum term," not "the maximum term," which
would support the government's view that the statute
contemplates more than one maximum.
MR. ROTHFELD: With respect, Your Honor, I
would suggest that's one of the government's odder
arguments. I think that reading any significance to the
use of "the" rather than "the" in this context is quite
peculiar. I would think if a judge, for example, is
pronouncing sentencing he or she is likely to say "I
sentence you to a term of 10 years," not "I sentence you
to the term of 10 years."
Certainly the use of "I sentence you to a
term of 10 years" doesn't suggest some contemplation of
multiple alternative regimes of punishment. So I think
the government, I give them kudos for creativity there,
but I think it's very difficult to read any conscious
choice by Congress in the use of the different article.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the
defendant's own understanding? In connection with one
of these offenses the defendant acknowledged in court,
the crime with which I am charged carries a maximum
sentence of 10 years.
MR. ROTHFELD: I think that there are two
things to say about that, Your Honor. First of all, I
question how seriously anyone took that statement in the
sentencing declaration, because what really mattered in
Washington State was the binding determinant sentencing
guideline, which set a maximum term of 57 months, which
everyone agrees was the highest penalty this defendant
could receive. In fact, it's quite clear that, absent
aggravating circumstances, which are not present in this
case, no one convicted of this defendant's crime could
receive a punishment, recidivist or not, of 10 years,
enough to trigger the ACCA predicate.
So, I question again whether or not anyone
took that terribly seriously. But I think even if one
did, it doesn't answer the question here. There is no
question that there was a recidivism provision which, at
least in some theoretical sense, made the maximum
penalty 10 years. There is also a statutory provision
which defined the crime. And in that -- in that
statutory provision the Washington legislature
specifically associated with conviction of that offense
a five-year maximum penalty. And I think it sort of --
it sort of begs the question to say, as the government
does, well, the fact that there is some possibility out
there of an enhancement that increases the penalty above
10 years, even if that were true, which is not, again
because of the sentencing guidelines in this case, that
sort of begs the question of what is the relevant
offense? Is the relevant offense what you might call
the generic categorical offense of distribution of
Schedule 3, 4, or 5 drugs, the sentence to which anyone
convicted of that crime, anyone who engaged in the
elements of that offense and is found guilty in
Washington State could have been sentenced to, and that
is 5 years.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The government is correct,
though, that when a recidivist is sentenced he is being
punished for the crime, not for his recidivism. So
you -- you can say that the punishment for that defined
crime is 10 years when, when the person who committed
the act is a recidivist, but the act he's being punished
for is the same crime.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, there is no doubt about
that. The defendant here committed this offense and he
is being punished for it, for that offense. But again,
I think that begs the question here: When Congress uses
the term "the punishment prescribed by law for the
offense," what did it have in mind? Did it mean sort of
the generic sense of the offense in the sense of the
offense that anyone commits who is guilty or who commits
the elements of the offense, which is someone who is not
a recidivist. It's entirely -- recidivism is unrelated
to that because recidivism is not an element of this
offense.
So yes, the defendant here committed the
offense. He's being punished for having committed this
offense. But that doesn't answer the question of what
Congress had in mind.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the part I'm not
getting. I mean, that's why it doesn't help your
client. In general, if you did read the word "offense"
as applying just to the act of selling drugs, let's say,
then you go on and it says, for which a maximum term of
10 years or more is prescribed, you'd say, well what is
the maximum term prescribed for the offense of selling
drugs? And the answer would be 10 years. Now, how do
you get out of that?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: You're saying because --
because fewer people are likely to get the 10-year
sentence than get the five-year sentence?
MR. ROTHFELD: No, no, absolutely not, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is -- what is the
distinguishing -- how do you get out of it? I know
you're trying to say this and I'm just not getting it.
MR. ROTHFELD: I look at it from the
perspective that I think Congress looked at it when it
wrote the statutory language here. Congress had in
mind -- as I said to Chief Justice Roberts, Congress had
in mind people who engage in serious offenses. Congress
had in mind what people actually did. It was not
passing a generic -- I think it's quite clear from the
statutory language, it was not passing a generic three
strikes statute. It was focusing on the seriousness of
what people did and what people actually did, what they
were actually convicted of doing.
And I think for that purpose, again the sort
of what you might call the generic or categorical
offense, the offense unrelated to recidivism
enhancements, is what's relevant because that is what
the person actually did. And once you bring recidivism
into the picture, once when the three strikes brings
recidivism into the picture, every drug distribution,
every drug distribution offense, will become a serious
offense within the meaning of that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I guess what you're saying
is that if it's a victimless crime, that the second
offense is no more injurious to the State than the first
was. I'm not sure that's the case. The fact that the
State sees multiple offenders, repeat offenders, in its
community means that they have to spend extra resources
to prevent -- to incarcerate them because they have a
network of distributors, et cetera. They are more
experienced, so they are more dangerous to the State.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, there is no question
that recidivism is regarded as -- as, you know, a bad
thing for a variety of reasons. And that is why
recidivism enhancements have been -- are so common. And
no one, no one disputes that.
The question is when Congress wrote this
statutory language and wrote this particular kind of
recidivism offense in ACCA, it was focusing on what the
defendants actually did. The recidivism enhancement is
entirely unrelated to that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we know it was
focusing on the particular problem of recidivism.
That's what the overarching Federal statute is directed
to.
MR. ROTHFELD: But --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I think,
following up on Justice Kennedy's question, that you
would assume that this Congress thought that recidivists
presented particular problems that were different from
the one particular offense.
MR. ROTHFELD: It is that recidivism
statute, but it is -- again it's a particular kind of
recidivism statute different in character from the
three-strikes kind of statute, different in character
from the -- the drug recidivism statute in Washington
State, which is -- which is to be a player. Those
statutes do not care whether the predicate acts that --
that trigger their application were serious offenses or
not. They simply ask is this -- is this defendant
someone who has been convicted of offenses in the past.
ACCA is not like that. ACCA specifically
targets serious predicate offenses. The -- the
statutory text defines two categories of predicate
offenses: violent felonies, which -- which are a set of
especially dangerous, threatening offenses; and serious
drug offenses, using the term "serious in the text. It
is clear from that Congress had in mind people who were
engaged in acts that are themselves harmful,
destructive, serious acts. Under the government's
application of a recidivism approach, virtually anything
that someone is convicted of having to do with drug
distribution -- handing a single marijuana cigarette to
a friend -- that is a drug distribution offense. In
most States that is punishable by two years, five years
maximum. Under the government's approach that is now,
because it could through the recidivism policy lead to a
10-year --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the flip
side of that hypothetical is somebody selling a ton of
marijuana. It's the same offense as somebody who's done
it and been convicted of it three different times. I
mean, I don't think your hypothetical helps advance the
argument.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, if -- if the crime in
which the individual engaged, selling a ton of
marijuana, is going to be punished by ten years, in
virtually every jurisdiction -- I would suggest in every
jurisdiction -- therefore it's going to be a serious
drug offense within the meaning of ACCA and it's going
to trigger ACCA as a predicate.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Of course, the recidivist
doesn't necessarily be a recidivist because he committed
the same crime three times. He might have done two very
different things under the California three-strike law.
Sometimes very minor crimes push the person over to
qualify as a recidivist.
MR. ROTHFELD: No, that's absolutely --
absolutely correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Rothfeld, apropos of
your answers to Justice -- first to Justice Scalia and
Justice Breyer -- you said that when the -- when the
recidivist is being sentenced he is being sentenced for
the offense of the -- of the drug crime. Isn't it
equally fair or wouldn't it be equally fair to say that
he is being sentenced for two things? He is being
sentenced for the drug crime which is the necessary
condition of the sentence; and he is also being
sentenced for the fact that he is repeating that crime.
Isn't -- isn't it fair to -- to sort of distinguish
between the two, in effect the two factors in the
offense?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- each one of which is
necessary for the -- for the ultimate sentence itself?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I -- I think that
that's right and it is reflective of something that --
discussing earlier with Justice Breyer. The offense
itself is not regarded as a more serious offense when
it's committed by a recidivist. It's because the
recidivist's character as a repeat offender is what
triggers the higher penalty; and in the ACCA context
where Congress was focusing on whether or not this
person was engaging in particular kinds of crimes,
particular kinds of serious crimes, that makes all the
difference.
I -- I return to cases that some members of
the Court were discussing with Mr. Shanmugam, the
LaBonte case. The Government would like to focus on the
status of this defendant as a repeat offender. That's
what triggers in their view the application of ACCA;
because he is a repeat offender he is in a class of
defendants who are subject to higher punishment,
therefore 10-year ACCA trigger.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm not sure the
offense is the same. I think the injury to the State is
compounded by the repetition.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It affects the tone of the
community, the number of law enforcement officers we
have to have, the cost of reincarceration,
rehabilitation, etcetera.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think -- again, I
don't disagree with any of that, as to the consequence
of a repeat offense. My question is whether Congress,
when it used the term serious offense, whether it
thought the offense itself was more serious, as distinct
from punishment that might -- that might be imposed upon
the offender.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's what I'm
addressing. It could be more serious when it's the
second time.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The offense in and of
itself.
MR. ROTHFELD: I think it's -- it's
instructive to look at the statute in the LaBonte case
which was -- which discussed during Mr. Shanmugam's
argument, in which --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Then for double jeopardy
purposes you must look at the second offense as the
offense, not the offender. I mean, the prior conduct is
-- is not being punished as a matter of constitutional
law.
MR. ROTHFELD: No. I -- I think that it's
quite clear in the cases that are -- and we agree by
cases cited by the Government for this proposition --
that when you are sentenced as a recidivist to a higher
penalty you are being punished for the most recent
offense that you were -- that you were --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, if you were
representing a -- a defendant who has two prior
convictions for something that has a sentence of 8
years, and on the third one he is subject to a sentence
of 15 years; and your initial meeting, the first thing
he wants to know is what's the maximum that I'm facing?
Would you tell him it's 8 years or would you tell him
it's 15 years?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I would say that
because you are a recidivist the maximum you are facing
is 15 years. But I would not say that the offense that
you committed is a more serious offense because you are
a repeat offender. And and the LaBonte statute I think
illustrates this very nicely. In the -- in the statute
the Court construed in LaBonte it referred to the
maximum term of imprisonment for specified categories of
defendants; and the Court found that language was
crucial because it showed that Congress contemplated
that there would be different terms of imprisonment for
defendants falling into different categories for the
same offense.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Rothfeld, let's assume
we get into conference and we are having exactly the
same discussion that's been going on for 40 minutes
there. There is one way to read it; there is another
way to read it; there are various reasons to read it one
way, various ways to read it the other way. What do we
do?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I -- I would suggest
that this Court need go no further at that point,
because the rule of lenity would dictate ruling for us.
Absolutely. It's --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you don't have to win
this argument?
MR. ROTHFELD: We do not. I think one way
to consider the case is that there in fact are three
statutes which bear on the question of penalty. There
is the statute that created the crime of conviction,
which created the -- the offense of a distribution of a
schedule of 3, 4, or 5 drugs, and in that statute
specifically associated with the offense is the 5-year
penalty. There is the 10-year, potential 10-year
penalty which is focused -- focus of the Government's
case. There is the Washington State sentencing
guidelines, which were binding, determinate guidelines,
every bit as much part of Washington statutory law as
the recidivism statute --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, the
Government of course responds to your rule of lenity
argument by saying it loses a lot of its force when we
are talking about how -- the degree of sentencing rather
than whether conduct is subject to a criminal sanction
in the first place.
MR. ROTHFELD: They do say that, Your Honor,
and I think that's simply not so. I mean, the Court has
said repeatedly and has applied repeatedly the doctrine
that the rule of lenity applies when the only question
is the length of the sentence; and indeed the R.L.C.
case which the Government has been discussing was a case
which involved only a question of length of the sentence
and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But someone who is,
you know, we are trying to decide whether he is subject
to 20 years in jail or 30 years in jail, invoking the
rule of lenity is a little bit -- it's not the same as
somebody who comes in and says I didn't know this was a
crime at all, because it's so vaguely written.
MR. ROTHFELD: I think the Court has said
consistently that one of the elements supporting the
rule of lenity is the idea that somebody's liberty is
going to be taken away, that Congress should have
spoken, to some degree --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we know -- we
know that someone's liberty is going to be taken away in
a case like this; it's just a question of for how long.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, but -- but it's a
profound difference. I mean, a the conviction of a
felony possession of a gun, the variations in penalty
can be zero. Absent ACCA, you could be sentenced to
probation, maximum of 10 years, as opposed to the
mandatory minimum 15-year sentence under ACCA. That's a
profound deprivation of liberty based upon how -- what
reading you give to these words. So -- and again --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think we have applied the
rule of lenity to sentencing in the past, haven't we?
MR. ROTHFELD: Absolutely. Again we cite a
number of cases in our briefs, the Bifulco case -- but
the R.L.C. case, which both parties have discussed at
some length, is a prime element in which --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It is -- it is a
fundamental verbal embarrassment for your argument that
you would say in a particular case that the maximum to
which someone is subject is say, 5 years, and that
person is in fact sentenced to 15 years. It's just the
-- the words don't fit together under that argument.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I -- I am not
embarrassed by that, Your Honor. Perhaps I, I'm too
resistant to embarrassment. But I --
(Laughter.)
MR. ROTHFELD: -- I think it's -- it's
entirely a question of how you take the congressional
meaning of the term punishment prescribed for the
offense.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but I thought your
position was that the -- the defendant is not, this
defendant is not subject to a maximum of 5 years, but
gets 10. I thought your position was that the offense
within the meaning of the statute should be an offense
which carries a maximum of 5 years, but that this
defendant is in fact subject to a maximum of 10.
MR. ROTHFELD: I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: In other words, you can --
throughout your argument you make, I think properly, the
offense/offender distinction, and isn't that the answer
to the conundrum?
MR. ROTHFELD: That -- that is exactly
right. We think that what Congress had in mind when it
referred to the punishment prescribed by law for the
offense it was referring to the offense, the offense of
conviction; and it never --
JUSTICE ALITO: The offense never -- the
offense also disregards offender characteristics, or
only those offender characteristics that are not
elements of the offense?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well again, that's -- that's
where we started, Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm still not sure what the
line is there.
MR. ROTHFELD: I -- I think if it is an
element of the offense then you would be convicted of an
offense which carried in its weight recidivism, and so I
would say yes, in that circumstance that would be a
different situation than what we have here.
JUSTICE ALITO: It all depends whether it's
labelled an element of the offense by the State
legislature?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think that whether it
actually is an element of the offence -- I mean, in this
case there is no question; everyone agrees it's not in
the offense; the Government concedes that it's not an
element to the offense.
JUSTICE BREYER: So it's bank robbery --
bank robbery, force or threat of force guidelines. If
you have a gun, eight years. If you brandish it, four
more years. If you take, you know, $10 as opposed to
$50, two years, eight years, six years. The statute, by
the way, says a max of 20 years. Now, what's the --
what's -- does this fall within it? Doesn't it? Does
it depend on whether he brandished it? What does it
depend on, in your view?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I'm glad you bring up
the guidelines, Your Honor, because I think that that is
an element that we haven't discussed at some length.
The government's test is what is the penalty that the
defendant actually faced. I mean that's their --
JUSTICE BREYER: Or what he actually faced
-- that, I agree with you, that won't work because of
the guidelines, if they were mandatory. But what
they're saying here is it's right in the statute. You
just look at the statute that has the definition of what
the offense is.
MR. ROTHFELD: Aha, but it's not the
definition of the offense. This statute -- the
definition of the offense is --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm back to the same
question then. I mean which one do we pick?
MR. ROTHFELD: I -- I guess there are two
points here -- the first on the question of the
guidelines. To the extent that the government believes
in its test, which is what is the sentence that the
defendant actually faced, there is no question that the
sentence the defendant actually faced here was 57
months, well below the 10-year ACCA trigger. And the
government does not offer any explanation that I can
understand as to why, if their test applies, one takes
recidivism enhancements into effect, but does not take
guidelines reductions into effect.
JUSTICE BREYER: You see that my question is
going in the exact opposite way. What I am finding hard
is once you distinguish offender and offense
characteristics in the way you do, why not jump to the
max for the offense? And so I'm asking you, how is it
you get out of that? Which is the same question I had
before. I'm not so worried about your case as I am
other cases.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, the way -- the way we
resolve that, Justice Breyer, is what was suggested by
Justice Souter's question. What Congress had in mind
was the offense without the overlay of a recidivism
enhancement, which is not an element of this offense.
One looks at the offense, one looks at the commission of
the elements, if you commit the elements, what does that
subject -- what kind of punishment does that subject you
to? If it's less than 10 years, ACCA does not apply.
If you have to call into the mix enhancements that are
unrelated, that are offender-specific and not
offense-specific, that's falls out because that's not
what Congress had in mind when it referred to
"punishment prescribed by law for the offense."
Again, Congress had in mind a limited series of serious
offenses. It was looking at what people did, whether
they engaged in the kind of serious, harmful,
destructive conduct that was sufficiently bad to trigger
the mandatory 15-year sentence, and if they did not, the
fact that some additional overlay could be used to
enhance their sentence is not what Congress was
concerned about when it listed ACCA predicates.
And, again, I don't want to fall away from
the Sentencing Guidelines point because, as I understood
Mr. Shanmugam's explanation to Justice Scalia as to why
the Guidelines should not apply if enhancement does is
because, well, this is an offender-specific -- an
offense-specific crime, and Congress at the time that it
enacted ACCA had in mind that guidelines in the
statutory regime were different.
But so far as the -- the offense has been
defined by the -- by the statute, the relevant offense
here is the five-year penalty associated with that
offense. And so I think that if one is going to go
beyond that and say we are going to look for things that
are outside of the offense, not in the elements of the
offense, to increase the sentence, as the government
does with the recidivism statute, there is no reason
why, if we are prepared to go outside of the offense
elements, that one wouldn't go to the Guidelines as
well, which have precisely the same effect in the other
way. I mean the government ultimately is asking for --
a one-way ratchet that if it increases the offense
level, that's okay, but if it decreases the punishment
for some reason, that doesn't apply. And we just don't
see any principled basis for that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, no, I thought
their argument was you look at broad categories rather
than individual characteristics. It's not a one-way
ratchet at all.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think, in terms of
discussion of the Guidelines, they suggest that what
matters is whether it is an element of the offense. I
thought that's what Mr. Shanmugam's response was. And
it is not an element of the offense here. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Shanmugam, you
have three minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
There are just two points that I'd like to
make in rebuttal:
The first is that the government believes
that the rule of lenity is inapplicable here for the
simple reason that we believe that the text of the
statute is not susceptible to Respondent's
interpretation. And if the Court concludes that the
statute does permit the interpretation that a given
offense can have only a single maximum term of
imprisonment, we believe that the only logical
conclusion is that that maximum is the maximum that any
offender could receive, not that the maximum -- not that
it is the maximum that some better-positioned subset of
offenders could receive. And while we do believe that
the considerations that underlie the rule of lenity have
less force in this context, and the Court has never
applied the rule of lenity to the ACCA, we ultimately
believe that the fact that the text does not permit
Respondent's interpretation is the end of the inquiry.
The other point that I would just make is
that if this Court were to adopt Respondent's
interpretation, it would have pernicious consequences,
not only for the ACCA, but likely also for a number of
other critically important Federal statutes as well.
With regard to the ACCA itself, both the definition of
"serious drug offense" and the definition of "violent
felony" are framed in terms of the maximum term of
imprisonment for the offense, and at least 28 States and
the Federal Government have drug-trafficking offenses
that would qualify as ACCA predicates for repeat
offenders under the government's interpretation but not
under Respondent's. And with regard to other statutes
similar language appears --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's good or bad,
depending upon whether -- whether your interpretation of
the statute is right or the other side's.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's good to put more
people in jail? I mean, that isn't necessarily what
we're after. We're --
MR. SHANMUGAM: I mean only to highlight the
practical significance of this issue, Justice Scalia,
and again, certainly in enacting a statute that itself
deals with the problem of recidivism, we believe that
Congress would not have wanted to be insensitive to an
offender's past recidivism.
But with regard to other statutes, I want to
note that similar language also appears in the Federal
three-strikes law and in the Controlled Substances Act,
which along with the ACCA, are among the most important
Federal statutes dealing with a problem of recidivism.
And similar language also appears in a number of general
Federal criminal statutes, including RICO and the very
substantive statute at issue here, the felony possession
statute. And if this Court were to adopt the Ninth
Circuit's interpretation, it could potentially lead to
the narrowing of all of those statutes as well. The
Ninth Circuit, alone among the circuits, has adopted
this view that the relevant maximum for an offense must
be the maximum that first-time offenders receive. We
believe that that is erroneous and that the judgment of
the Ninth Circuit should be reversed.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Shanmugam. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:07 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
56:18 52:8 1:14 asks 31:10 22:16 23:9
31:20 56:3 associated 35:5 54:15,19 55:20
37:6 32:20 43:9 14:3 assume 31:21 believes 50:22
45:10 adopt 54:22 applicable 10:24 39:7 44:25 54:4
56:6 11:6 15:11 assure 8:1 better 19:17
5:10 56:9 application 3:15 authorized 8:4 better-positio...
10:15 adult 7:21,23 39:17 40:4 23:22 54:14
12:10,25 advance 19:16 42:14 aware 19:22 beyond 5:23
16:1,6 40:16 applied 46:9 22:15 52:23
17:8,12 aggravating 47:12 54:18 a.m 1:13 3:2 biased 21:22
24:11 34:18 applies 46:10 56:17 Bifulco 47:15
aggressive 6:18 51:3 binding 34:14
28:4
30:1,5 agree 31:1 43:24 51:22 52:14 back 6:18 11:17 bit 25:15 26:2
50:10 53:8 25:22 28:25 45:24 46:18
agrees 34:16 applying 12:10 50:18 Blakely 23:9,15
38:22 49:17 36:21 bad 38:16 52:6 Booker 28:9
40:23 Aha 50:15 Apprendi 9:15 55:10 brandish 49:22
42:5,14 Alito 9:25 10:7 9:25 10:14,21 balance 25:1 brandished 50:2
47:7,9 26:25 27:13,22 21:21,25 22:1 26:5 Breyer 28:25
52:10 28:7 48:24 22:19 23:3,15 bank 49:20,21 29:13,22 30:13
54:18,24 49:4,5,12 23:19 28:8 based 3:15 7:7 30:17 36:18
56:1 Almendarez-... approach 4:3 31:4 47:10 37:3,8 41:10
20:12,15 alternates 23:24 area 7:13 bear 45:15 brief 11:11 15:7
8:24 4:15 6:14 8:15 2:2,7 3:3,6 began 18:14 briefs 47:15
21:6,15 26:3 40:17 43:17 behalf 1:17,18 broad 6:15,19
11:13,16 alters 10:15 47:19,23 48:16 26:9 53:24 20:18 21:14
16:20 analog 7:15 53:11,23 behaved 30:14 53:11
36:21 ancillary 14:12 arguments behavior 29:6
36:16,25 48:17 13:19 12:9,25 13:16 51:23
34:8 characteristic client 36:20 concerns 14:9 46:22
6:24 closest 7:15 conclude 13:18 constitute 32:6
16:1 48:25 49:1 cohort 32:9 concludes 54:8 15:8
22:12 51:9 53:12 collaterally conclusion constitutional
25:19 charge 11:24 13:15 54:12 10:22 14:8,14
27:23 charged 34:8 colloquial 10:17 condition 41:16 23:14 43:21
35:11 CHARLES 1:18 combinations conduct 43:20 construe 7:22
42:12 2:5 26:8 7:8 46:5 52:6 construed 24:16
45:14,22 Chief 3:3,8 5:18 come 11:17 conference 45:1 44:18
47:3 6:2,7,11,17,23 13:12 30:18 Congress 4:25 construing 7:18
9:11 17:23 comes 13:9 6:22 9:13,16 contained 15:1
51:12 18:13,20,25 46:19 9:18,22 10:16 contemplated
24:25 26:6,10 commission 8:1 11:4,13,16,20 44:21
34:4 37:14 commit 3:12 26:19 27:10 33:14
16:24 38:25 39:5 15:13 19:13 28:19 29:14,18 contemplation
42:10 40:12 44:4 51:20 30:4,6 32:8,10 33:24
47:15 46:1,15 47:1 commits 4:7,10 32:15,18,20 context 16:18
47:18 53:10,19 36:9,9 33:5,5 34:3 22:16 27:11
37:23 child 29:4 30:14 16:12 26:22 37:13,14,15 30:8 31:22
17:24 choice 34:3 36:3,14,15 40:1 42:6 43:3 54:17
22:5 choose 18:14,21 41:1 42:3 44:21 46:24 contexts 25:22
31:5 chooses 11:24 44:15 48:20 51:16 continue 15:18
44:19,23 chose 29:19 committing 33:9 52:1,3,9,16 15:19
cigarette 40:6 common 18:23 55:21 Controlled 8:17
33:3 24:14,21 56:9 community 48:4 conundrum
11:19 circumstance competent 13:1 consequence 6:3 39:19 40:5,15
14:10 49:10 completely 31:2 17:19 43:2 49:8
19:18 circumstances comply 23:14 consequences conviction 12:11
21:15 30:21 34:18 compounded 5:19 6:2 54:23 13:10,23 14:13
25:24 cite 15:7 24:15 42:20 consider 45:14 14:21 16:12
33:23 47:14 concedes 49:18 consideration 17:3,5 35:5
cited 43:25 conceived 9:16 5:25 31:22 45:16 47:5
16:10 create 21:13 26:20 27:4,19 12:12 20:24 10:9 11:20
44:6 created 45:16,17 34:7,16 36:3 determined 17:6 15:6 43:5
17:18 creativity 34:1 42:13 44:5 17:2 32:23 29:25 30:23
21:21 creature 9:19 48:8,9,13 50:8 dictate 45:9 31:4 48:17
29:19 crime 4:7,11 5:2 50:24,25 difference 20:6 distinguish
41:7 5:3 8:9 9:1,4,7
44:4 46:1 40:18 41:2,12 34:6,19 8:20 13:2,24 35:14 38:3,4
41:15,17 45:16define 9:7 13:25 14:2 16:14,17 40:6,7 45:17
crimes 3:13 41:4 28:2,16 35:3 31:5 32:7 34:3 38:13
criminal 3:10 defines 3:14 40:15 41:3 doing 29:3 37:21
critical 8:20 39:22 52:18 doubt 36:2
critically 8:12 28:20 difficult 13:20 drug 4:17,18 9:7
12:13 crucial 44:21 14:24 15:1,8,9 difficulties 16:22 27:3,11
14:24 culpable 30:11 30:3 50:13,16 14:15 16:25 28:20 30:2
20:25 50:17 55:1,2 difficulty 18:8 38:3,4 39:14
28:6 D degree 46:4,25 directed 31:16 39:25 40:5,7
46:2 D 3:1 Department 39:2 40:23 41:12,15
8:14 32:12 38:14 depend 50:2,3 disagree 13:17 drugs 27:1,2
10:21 39:24 depending 18:20 30:15 35:15 36:21,25
12:1,9 dating 25:22 21:18 55:11 43:2 45:18
14:1 dealing 13:24 depends 28:2 disavow 32:5 drug-trafficki...
16:2,5 19:23 31:16 49:12 discrete 9:19 16:18,18 22:16
56:2 deprivation discussed 8:17 55:5
19:9,11 deals 55:20 47:10 26:16 43:16 D.C 1:8,16,18
22:17 decide 23:1 description 22:7 47:16 50:6
26:11 31:14 46:16 destructive discussing 33:2 E
34:7 deciding 31:20 32:13 33:9 42:1,11 46:12 E 2:1 3:1,1
44:18,20 decision 21:24 40:3 52:6 discussion 18:14 earlier 9:21 16:2
46:8,21 22:19 23:9 determinant 45:2 53:15 17:25 42:1
decisions 26:16 34:14 dispute 12:19,25 easier 9:2
declaration determinate 13:5 easy 8:25 17:8
decreases 53:7 determination 14:1,3,4,8,12 51:5 53:4
10:14 12:12,20 13:11 determinations disregards eight 49:22,24
22:18 13:12,14 17:6 13:20 23:2 48:25 element 8:8 9:1
30:8 21:22 24:18 determine 7:9 distinct 9:23 10:3,20 23:18
21:10,11 22:6 eye 11:4,5 figure 28:22 friend 40:7
37:25 38:18 figuring 28:19 functional 23:18
47:17 51:4,23 F find 16:25 fundamental
entirely 36:11 faced 50:8,9,24 finding 51:7 10:13 18:7
51:18 38:24 48:4 50:25 firearm 22:2 26:17 47:19
equally 25:24 facing 44:9,13 first 3:4 12:1,25 further 45:8
28:17 equivalent 11:25 12:16,20 34:11 38:8 G
36:10 23:18 12:21 14:12 41:9 44:8 46:6 G 3:1
49:2 erred 24:22 16:1 20:22 50:21 54:4 general 1:16
52:24 erroneous 13:13 21:22 23:15 first-time 3:23 22:6 36:20
56:12 28:15 34:17 4:7,11,23,24 56:3
ESQ 1:15,18 2:3 47:22 48:13 25:17 56:11 generic 35:14
48:1 essentially 9:7 factor 10:5,10 five 25:7,13 27:1 37:23
26:19 21:25 22:15 factors 20:23 five-year 35:6 36:19 37:10
28:16 21:2 22:22 37:5 52:21 GINO 1:6
et 38:13 factual 13:3 flip 40:12 33:11 34:5
evaluates 21:1 16:16 42:12 45:21 14:17
40:2,19 13:13 fall 14:13 50:1 focuses 27:10 given 4:15 17:16
exact 51:7 52:11 focusing 37:19 54:9
24:16 45:1 falls 51:25 42:6 glad 50:4
17:7 12:14 13:10 52:19 follows 28:4 going 23:1,2
25:14 29:8 33:19 feasible 10:1 footnote 16:4 28:10,25 40:20
existence 13:5 Federal 3:11,13 force 46:3 49:21 40:22,23 45:2
7:2 14:4 38:14 17:8 20:21 form 9:14 21:23 51:7 52:22,23
15:21 explain 19:25 39:2 54:25 formal 21:13 GONZAGA 1:6
20:4,5 explanation 55:5,24 56:2,4 forward 13:9,12 good 55:10,14
21:4 51:2 52:13 felon 27:2,3 28:10 government 4:8
25:6 expressly 32:5 felonies 39:23 found 27:25 13:9,22 31:3
35:9 32:16 felony 14:22,25 35:17 44:20 33:2 34:1 35:7
51:18 extent 13:14 15:10,13 47:6 four 49:22 35:20 42:12
21:7 24:6 55:3 56:5 framed 55:3 43:25 46:2,12
19:1 extra 19:4 38:11 field 5:3 22:24 51:2 52:25
54:4 55:5 history 19:20 inconsistent J 35:20 36:18
4:6 26:13 hold 29:14 increase 52:25 55:15 38:25 39:5,6
40:3 holding 24:17 increases 35:9 January 1:9 40:12,25 41:8
45:21 25:25 53:6 jeopardy 43:18 41:9,9,10,22
55:7 homework 29:3 incumbent Jersey 21:25 42:1,18,22
21:16 34:11 37:7 individual 6:9 56:12 47:12,18 48:7
46:7 47:25 33:7 40:19 judgments 48:15,24 49:4
8:2 9:12 hour 29:2 individualized judicial 12:11 50:9,18 51:6
hundred 25:22 7:6 20:16,25 13:22 51:15,16 52:13
hypothetical infinite 7:8 jump 51:9 53:10,19,21
20:20,23 40:13,16 initial 44:8 jurisdiction 54:1 55:10,14
24:19,20 injurious 38:8 40:21,22 55:18 56:15
35:11 I injury 42:19 Justice's 9:12
49:21 idea 46:23 inquiry 12:6 9:15 juvenile 7:19
identified 18:9 54:20 jury 10:5,20,25
52:12,14 illustrates 44:17 insensitive K
53:3,15 important 3:11 55:21 27:24,25 28:12 K 1:15 2:3,8 3:6
56:1 instructive Justice 1:16 3:3 KANNON 1:15
43:6 intent 11:2 5:4,5,9,18 6:2 Kennedy 7:11
52:5 6:14 7:7 8:3,16 19:16,17,19 13:4,8 14:7,16 kicks 15:23
17:16 18:11 55:7,11 56:7 16:3,9,14 30:19 31:25
54:11 55:4 invoking 46:17 21:9,18 22:3,9 kinds 22:6 30:21
7:20 24:7 incarcerate 8:22,23 14:23 27:13,22 28:7 38:16,25 44:9
42:5,16 38:12 22:13,17,23 28:25 29:13,22 46:16,19 47:1
includes 9:5 55:18 56:5 30:9,13,17,24 47:2 49:23
listed 52:10 6:14 7:1,6,19 merely 12:10 nicely 44:17
live 13:21 9:9,10,17,18 mind 28:20 30:4 24:14,21 56:6
42:12 Logan 16:2 9:18,20 10:11 32:10 33:7 56:9,13
44:16,18 logical 54:11 10:24 11:5,9 36:7,17 37:14 nonrecidivist
8:19 longer 10:1 12:16 13:11 48:20 51:16 nonrecidivists
26:15,18 look 5:3 6:10 15:16 16:7,7 52:1,3,17 20:14
18:2 19:5,5 17:7,15,20,20 mine 12:9 29:5 non-recidivist
30:1 37:11 43:15,1917:21 18:11,15 minimum 14:11 21:10
32:16 50:13 52:23 18:17,21,22,24 32:14 47:9 non-recidivists
37:13,18 53:11 19:10 20:8,11 minor 41:4 6:16
44:20 looked 17:1 21:16 22:2 minutes 45:2 normal 18:1
56:3 37:12 23:10 24:5,7,7 53:22 19:2
loses 46:3 27:1,2,3,5,12 mix 51:23 noted 16:5
lower 3:25 5:12 31:14,20 32:23 22:20 24:17
32:24 25:16 33:12,12,14 moment 25:3,9 number 26:12
41:3 34:8,15 35:1,6 months 34:15 32:4 42:23
43:22 M 36:22,24 40:9 51:1 47:15 54:24
48:21 mandatory 44:9,13,19 motivated 32:8 56:3
55:25 24:19 32:14 47:8,20 48:9 multiple 22:5 numerical 18:5
56:7 52:7 54:12,12,13,14 O
28:3 marijuana 40:6 8:22 9:12,23 narrowing 56:8 odder 33:16
49:14 40:14,20 9:23 11:12,19 natural 5:19 offence 28:16
50:6 11:21 12:8 21:7 26:3 naturally 4:13 offender 3:18,19
22:23 27:25 30:20 36:7,19 nature 8:8 4:23 5:8,21,24
54:5,16 28:7 43:21 40:16 43:20 near 8:3 6:5 7:7,12,21
56:18 46:8 47:5 necessarily 11:24 12:1,6,7
maximum 3:15 48:5,11 need 12:10 16:6 24:8,24 26:21
4:18,21,22,23 members 42:10 never 23:23 42:15 43:7,20
48:25 41:12,20 42:1 oral 1:11 2:2 3:6 31:12 34:16 position 4:6 5:20
51:8 42:2,19 43:3,4 26:8 35:2,6,9 42:5 6:8 12:4 48:8
43:5,12,19,20 order 12:12 17:9 44:2 45:15,20 48:10
4:22 45:17,19 48:6 originally 10:4 50:7 52:21 possession 27:1
5:11,13 48:10,11,22,22 ought 18:2,16 people 30:7 27:2 47:6 56:5
8:11 48:22,24,25 outset 17:13 32:11,18 33:8 possibilities
9:10 49:2,8,9,13,18 18:9 37:4,15,16,20 23:25
19:12,13 49:19 50:14,16 outside 16:17 37:20 40:1 possibility 4:14
20:13 50:17 51:8,10 52:24 53:2 52:4 55:15 7:6 8:14,24
24:23 51:17,18,19 out-of-State perfect 12:14 20:12,15 35:8
29:20 52:2,19,20,22 17:3 perfectly 13:1 possible 8:21
32:9 52:24,25 53:2 overarching permit 54:9,19 post-Blakely
54:15 53:6,16,18 39:2 permitted 13:14 28:14
56:11 54:10 55:2,4 overlay 51:17 pernicious potential 45:20
55:22 offenses 3:14,16 person 4:6,10 12:6 13:6 56:7
52:15 26:20 30:5 P 3:1 41:4 42:7 practice 19:20
32:17 33:7,8 panoply 21:1 perspective precisely 30:12
6:5 33:10 34:7 Parry 24:16 37:12 53:4
9:9 10:3,9 37:15 39:17,19 part 30:2 36:18 pertinent 31:13 predicate 15:16
39:21,23,24,25 45:24 petition 31:8 27:11 33:7
52:4 55:5 particular 5:20 Petitioner 1:4 34:21 39:16,21
13:25 offense-specific 18:17 24:8 1:17 2:4,9 3:7 39:22 40:24
15:2,4,9 9:17 11:11,18 26:19 31:25 53:24 predicates 32:6
21:2 31:2 33:3 38:21 phrase 24:11,16 52:10 55:6
17:16 51:25 52:16 39:1,8,9,11 pick 4:9 18:17 predictates
19:7,13 offense/offender 42:7,8 47:20 50:19 32:17
23:10,16 48:17 particularly picky 29:15 prepared 53:2
24:5,21 offer 51:2 4:25 31:18 picture 38:2,3 prerequisite
officers 42:23 parties 47:16 place 46:6 10:19
okay 53:7 partly 3:15 play 30:21 prescribe 24:1,1
once 13:9 38:1,2 passed 11:3 28:8 player 39:15 prescribed 4:19
28:3,4,5 51:8 passing 9:20 please 3:9 26:11 23:22,23 24:10
one-way 53:6,12 37:17,18 plurality 14:6 24:13 28:5,22
29:25 one-year 14:25 pattern 16:1 plus 9:5 28:23 31:10
15:21 16:7 peculiar 33:19 point 11:12 15:3 36:6,23,24
31:10 opening 24:15 peculiarity 16:5 22:4 28:18 48:5,21 52:2
operate 16:21 penalties 19:21 45:8 52:12 present 9:14
36:3,4,7 operates 16:6 22:14 33:4 54:21 14:14 22:12
opinion 8:13 penalty 5:16 points 16:15 34:18
14:7 16:5 15:22 25:15,16 50:21 54:2 presented 3:16
38:4 opposed 7:12 25:16,24 26:2 policy 40:10 16:1,24 31:7,7
39:9 47:8 49:23 27:1,3,5,12,22 portion 14:7 39:8
opposite 51:7 28:21,23 31:10 posit 18:1 presents 12:13
pull 6:18 quite 13:24 14:2 40:4,10 45:25 23:7 24:10
13:15,25 21:14 28:5 raises 10:23 17:7 18:2,6 42:25
16:11,22 29:21 33:25 range 7:9 20:6 21:10 reincarceration
21:24 34:20 35:23 ratchet 53:6,13 22:10 25:25,25 42:24
44:5 36:6 42:16 read 31:4 34:2 26:1 27:24 relatively 17:8
51:21 52:2 45:5 36:11 40:25 9:17,19 12:5
32:21,22 purpose 21:23 47:11 recidivists 6:15 35:13 37:25
55:20 25:12 26:17 really 20:14 20:14 22:14 52:20 56:10
37:22 34:13 31:15 39:7 remain 23:17
15:9,16 23:19 11:10 29:17 recognized 8:14 remains 15:4
push 41:4 reasons 13:18 recommendat... remember 9:13
Q rebuttal 2:7 record 12:22 5:8,11 9:10
16:11 recall 22:1 13:22 19:21 24:24
qualifying 15:9 19:13 34:17,20 reference 19:7 42:15 43:3
12:19 9:12 14:17 received 18:10 referred 23:4 repeated 3:25
25:20 27:16,16 5:14,15 9:1,5 52:1 30:23 32:9,11
31:6,7 34:12 14:22 16:11,19 48:22 repeating 41:17
39:6 43:3 32:1,21 33:3 reflects 32:16 44:5
27:4,7 45:15 46:10,13 34:25 35:22 Reform 9:20 requirement
34:25 47:3 48:4 36:11,12 37:24 11:13,16 18:15
49:17 50:19,21 38:1,3,16,18 regard 7:4 10:13 reserve 24:25
51:15 Rothfeld 1:18 8:25 9:4,6 11:1 41:17 44:1 23:6 24:3
33:15 30:15,22 31:14 35:20 41:9 10:23 11:13,16 Shanmugam's
2:6 16:14 33:15 34:10 55:10,14,18 20:19 22:21 53:17
36:2 37:2,6,11 Scalia's 30:24 23:4,13,17,17 Shepard 13:19
17:1,17 40:18 41:6,8 45:18 34:13,14 35:11 showed 44:21
54:7,20 41:21,24 42:21 scope 14:13 45:22 46:4 side 14:19 40:13
55:8 43:1,11,14,23 second 11:23,24 47:13 52:12 side's 55:12
53:17 47:4,14,24 38:7 43:10,19 serious 3:12 similar 55:9,24
rule 10:22 13:21 sees 38:10 37:15 38:4 11:5 19:8 23:1
30:12 46:2,10,18,23 selling 36:21,24 43:4,5,9 44:15 single 17:15
48:20 47:13 54:5,16 40:13,19 52:3,5 55:2 18:21 40:6
55:12 54:18 sense 10:8,17 seriously 34:12 54:10
19:4 20:4 17:2,9 25:25 35:1 seriousness sit 25:3
ruling 45:9 36:8,8 26:22 30:6 situation 18:1
10:24 11:5,22 sets 14:25 small 32:9
S 2:1 3:1 15:11,11 19:3 Shanmugam society 32:13
18:13,25 sanction 46:5 19:14 20:24,25 1:15 2:3,8 3:5 Solicitor 1:15
31:13 saw 25:4 25:6,12 31:19 3:6,8 4:5,12 somebody 40:13
34:4 saying 11:4 33:21,21,23 5:4,9 6:1,11,20 40:14 46:19
38:25 18:14 37:3 34:9 35:15 7:3,14 8:6,10 somebody's
40:12 38:6 46:3 37:5,5 41:16 9:2,6 10:6 11:1 46:23
46:1,15 50:12 41:23 44:6,7 11:7 12:4,24 someone's 47:2
53:10 says 4:8 15:10 46:11,13 47:9 13:8 14:16,23 somewhat 8:19
56:15 15:12 23:3 50:23,25 52:7 15:24 16:4,13 16:13
36:7 status 26:2 stretched 7:5 suppose 11:23 term 3:17,25
41:18 42:13 strikes 32:2 13:21 24:3 4:18 5:10 6:4
7:4,5,16,22,25 structure 22:20 29:1 15:17 16:2
16:3 8:22,23 9:21 21:13,17 Supreme 1:1,12 20:11 21:16
41:8 12:2 17:14 structuring sure 5:4,9 8:19 23:10,21 24:5
44:25 19:9,15,18,23 21:23 9:8 10:19 38:9 28:4,20 30:2
48:7,15 20:8,11 21:12 subject 3:20,24 42:18 49:5 31:15,21 33:12
31:16 32:1,7 9:10 12:13,16 17:23 19:22 34:15 36:6,22
44:16,17 45:16 32:24 33:4 suspect 18:5 55:3
33:6 35:5 50:16 52:20 48:9,13 51:21 20:20,22,23 terms 3:15 4:15
45:19 53:1 54:7,9 51:21 24:19 6:14 7:7 8:15
39:16 45:15 submitted 10:20 14:16 31:22 text 4:13 7:4,5
10:22 statutory 9:17 Substances 8:18 46:24 47:2 Thank 3:8 26:6
12:1 9:22 11:8,10 16:20 55:25 takes 51:3 26:10 53:18,19
15:12 15:6 23:21 substantive 12:8 talk 7:12 53:20,25 56:14
16:7,12 24:13 26:14,18 14:5 56:5 talking 17:24 56:15
20:1 23:7 27:9,20 30:1,3 sufficiently 52:6 19:1 46:4 theoretical 35:1
26:25 31:9 32:16 suggest 27:17 target 26:19 theory 14:19
32:24 35:2,4 37:13 28:1 33:16,24 targets 39:21 26:13
35:18 37:18 38:21 40:21 45:7 task 17:8 thing 9:11 11:14
39:22 45:24 53:15 Taylor 13:23 17:11 20:4
42:19 52:18 suggested 14:6 technical 30:19 24:9 38:17
49:13 Stevens 12:18 17:13 26:15 tell 30:13 44:10 44:8
16:9,10,13 22:10 40:25 13:13 ten 27:3,12,23 think 6:2,16,21
17:1 43:18 support 4:2 28:22 31:12 7:9,14 8:12
24:15 stiffened 5:16 33:13 40:20 9:12 10:1 15:3
40:8 straightforward supporting ten-year 15:1 15:14 18:7,7
16:21 46:22 25:6,12 20:17 21:21
24:6,9 told 29:1,6 understand 11:2 26:1 X
28:13,19 ton 40:13,19 22:3 24:11 virtues 10:6 x 1:2,7
30:22 tone 42:22 51:3
32:22 tools 3:11 understanding W Y
trafficking 4:18 34:6 wake 23:8 years 4:19 9:21
9:8 10:9,13 understood want 17:11 15:12 18:11,12
36:5 treat 16:9 19:25 52:12 52:11 55:23 19:3,4,5 22:2
21:3 unheard 21:24 wanted 55:21 25:7,22 27:2,3
40:16 treated 13:6 Uniform 16:20 wants 44:9 27:12,23 28:22
42:19 14:20,22 26:24 uniformly 5:15 Washington 1:8 31:12 32:14
treating 15:15 United 1:1,3,12 1:16,18 23:8 33:21,22,24
45:13 treats 16:8 3:4 24:15 34:14 35:4,18 34:9,20 35:2
47:12 trigger 3:14 universal 22:15 39:14 45:22,24 35:10,19,24
14:25 15:1 unlawfully 22:1 way 21:13,17 36:23,25 40:8
50:5 34:21 39:17 unrelated 36:11 31:6 45:3,4,5,5 40:8,20 44:7,8
53:14 40:24 42:17 37:24 38:24 45:13 49:25 44:10,11,14
triggering 15:16 use 15:18,20 53:5 47:21,22 48:9
39:7 24:3 35:10 usually 23:24,25West 25:23
48:7,10 trying 31:14,19 U.S.C 7:17 15:7 We'll 3:3 Z
37:10 46:16 we're 6:1 19:1 zero 47:7
39:24 26:25 34:10 25:22 whichever 4:9 $10 49:23
38:2 41:2,14,19,19 variations 47:6 19:20
41:2 44:5 49:24
53:22 50:20 54:2 38:17 word 15:20 06-1646 1:5 3:4
15:22 16:6 verbal 47:19 30:17,18 36:20
55:25 typically 16:25 victimless 38:7 48:15
26:5 28:9 53:5 54:18 11:20 wouldn't 4:10
30:10 37:4 40:11
52:16 unclear 17:4 15:10 39:23 53:3
14:5,5 virtually 40:4,21 wrote 37:13 10:07 1:13 3:2
1:9 32:13
47:9
7:17 15:7
9:14 10:17
9:20 19:4
46:17 49:25
1:9
2:6
11:15 55:4
2:4 35:15
46:17
35:15 45:18
45:2
18:12 35:15,19
47:21
45:19
2:9
34:15 50:25
44:6,10
15:7
11:15
