IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
REPUBLIC OF THE :
PHILIPPINES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1204
JERRY S. PIMENTEL, :
TEMPORARY ADMINISTRATOR :
OF THE ESTATE OF MARIANO :
J. PIMENTEL, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, March 17, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Petitioner.
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
Petitioner.
ROBERT A. SWIFT, ESQ., Philadelphia, Pa.; on behalf
of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
Curiae, supporting the Petitioner 19
ROBERT A. SWIFT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 06-1204, Republic of the
Philippines v. Pimentel, et al.
Mr. Rothfeld.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
This case concerns a dispute over the
ownership of the property, the Arelma assets, that the
Republic of the Philippines believes were stolen by
Ferdinand Marcos while he served as the Republic's
president. The ownership of this property should be
settled by the courts of the Republic. The Arelma
assets were stolen in the Philippines, from the
Philippine people, by their former president. The
current dispute is between the Republic and certain of
its citizens. There is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just didn't hear you.
You said that this dispute should be settled by --
MR. ROTHFELD: By the courts of the
Republic. The question of ownership of these assets we
believe is a matter as certainty of as the first
impression should be decided in the Republic. As I say,
the assets here were stolen in the Republic, from the
Republic's citizens, by their president. There is
currently a proceeding pending before the Sandiganbayan,
the special Philippine anti-corruption court that has
jurisdiction over matters of this sort, dealing
specifically with the assets that are at issue here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's been pending how
long?
MR. ROTHFELD: It's been pending -- well,
the Republic initially filed a forfeiture petition in
1991 directed at a range of assets related to former
president Marcos. Ultimately, after the assets were
transferred from Switzerland to be held in escrow in the
Philippines, the Philippine Supreme Court in 2003 issued
a judgment relating to those assets because there was
some doubt as to whether that judgment, some question
about whether that judgment specifically addressed the
Arelma assets that are at issue here, the Republic filed
a motion before the Sandiganbayan in 2004 directed
specifically at the assets. The motion has been pending
since that time.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it's from 2004 to
2008?
MR. ROTHFELD: It has been, Your Honor. The
Republic -- that delay cannot be attributed to the
Republic. The Republic has filed five motions with the
Sandiganbayan urging it to expedite its decision. I can
tell you that it has a -- it is a court with a very
substantial docket. The division of the Sandiganbayan
that's considered this, these assets, considered among
many other cases the corruption trial of former
President Joseph Estrada. So I don't think that the
delay can at this point be deemed --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it gets way ahead of
the analysis and probably way ahead of your argument.
At some point I'd like you to address whether or not one
of the equities the Court can consider is the likelihood
of an earlier decision. Let's assume we project out
another 10 years. Does that make a difference? That
may come toward the end of your argument rather than
now, but I'd like it addressed at some point.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I certainly will, Your
Honor. I think it would make sense logically to
consider the issues that we think -- there really are
two related sets of considerations that should go into
the Court's decision as to whether this suit should be
dismissed, which is our submission. One relates to the
Republic's sovereign immunity. The second relates to
kind of a broader set of considerations and I think that
your question goes to those.
So I'll turn first to the sovereign immunity
question. The Republic asserts ownership of these
assets. Its, its submission is that President Marcos
misappropriated them while he served as the president of
the Republic. If that is true, then under Philippine
law these assets at all times were the property of the
Republic.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rothfeld, will you
explain then how it was that the Philippine Government
supported the litigation against Marcos that led to the,
what was it, the $2 billion judgment?
MR. ROTHFELD: That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Said that it had no
objection to that suit. In fact, he thought it was a
good thing for the Philippines that that litigation go
forward. But if the government's position is the
judgment would be uncollectible because all of those
assets belonged to the Philippine Government and not to
Marcos's estate, so the -- that whole litigation would
have been an exercise in futility.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think not, Justice
Ginsburg, and I think that there is in fact no
inconsistency at all. The Republic's position at that
time was that it had no objection to plaintiffs who were
victims of the Marcos regime bringing suit in the United
States and they had no -- the Republic had no objection
to the suit proceeding in this country. Specifically
the issue that was before the court that the Republic
weighed in on was whether the act of state doctrine
would preclude adjudication in the United States. The
Republic's interest was in making clear that the acts of
Marcos were not the acts of the Republic, they were not
official acts that the Republic was prepared to defend.
The Republic did not then and does not now
have any objection to citizens of the Republic
proceeding in the courts of the United States against
the estate of Marcos. The question here is whether or
not these assets are in the estate of Marcos. The
Republic's submission is that these assets belong to the
Republic, that they have never been part of the Marcos
estate, and that therefore these are sort of ships
passing in the night, that there can be proceedings
against the estate in this country or elsewhere.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there anything else in
the estate?
MR. ROTHFELD: There is litigation going on
in the Philippines now before the Sandiganbayan as to
what is in the estate, and I think that one of the
problems, of course, is that, as is true of many corrupt
regimes that have misappropriated state assets,
unraveling it is enormously complicated. There were
dummy corporations, there were smell corporations, which
is one of the reasons that it has taken so long.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, let me ask a slightly
different question from Justice Scalia's. Is it the
position of the Philippine Government that there are any
assets in the estate that the Philippine Government does
not claim?
MR. ROTHFELD: I think that there are some
assets. I will not say that they are very substantial
number of assets. Now, I should say --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Enough assets to satisfy
the claims of the individuals who -- who brought suit in
the United States?
MR. ROTHFELD: No, there are not and there
may never have been.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So the position of the
Philippines, going back to Justice Ginsburg's question,
was we have no objection and in fact I think it was we
support the litigation in the United States, but when it
comes time to collect a judgment we're claiming they
don't get a penny because everything belongs to us. Is
that a fair summary of the Philippines' position?
MR. ROTHFELD: I think that is not an
entirely fair summary, Your Honor. I think -- and
again let me say that there are two separate questions:
One is whether or not, as a matter of principle, the
Philippines objected to its citizens proceeding in the
courts of the United States to condemn the regime of
former President Marcos.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, they weren't just
suing to condemn the regime. They weren't asking for a
declaratory judgment. They were asking for a judgment
in money.
MR. ROTHFELD: That is true, Your Honor.
But the submission -- and the question is whether there
is some inconsistency between what the Republic said
then and what it says now. The submission then was not
that the claimants were entitled to recover assets that
belonged to the Republic. The submission was that
whatever ended up in the Marcos estate --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but we live in a
practical world and if in fact there were no apparent
assets that might satisfy that judgment that the
Philippine Government did not claim, then their -- then
their support of the -- of the earlier litigation was at
the very least in tension with their -- with their
overall position.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think that that --
again, I would respectfully disagree with that. I think
that there was real meaning to the judgment that was
returned here even if there is a dispute as to whether
there are assets in the Marcos estate. There were two
settlements worked out between the Marcos estate and the
claimants, with the blessing of the Republic, that would
have paid a very substantial amount out of assets
recovered from the Marcos -- that were associated with
Marcos, recovered by the Republic, and the Republic sort
of blessed payment of those to the claimants here.
Ultimately that was vetoed by the Sandiganbayan as
inconsistent with Philippine law. But I think that the
executive branch --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then why doesn't the
Republic take the position that, because that was vetoed
for reasons apart from the Republic's discretion, that
the current assets would be an appropriate source of
payment?
MR. ROTHFELD: There have been a number of
efforts in the Philippine Congress, and there is now
pending bills in the Philippine Congress, to compensate
the claimants in amounts equivalent to those
settlements. So I think that that is something that
could happen, but I think it's important to step back
and say, what is the issue before this Court here? And
I think all of these considerations are simply divorced
from the Rule 19 issues.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's one other point
of Philippine law that's unclear from the briefs. The
Respondents say they have no right to intervene in the
proceeding that's going on before the corruption court
and your brief suggests that there is a right to
intervene. What is it? Can they become part of that
litigation or will they not be heard by the corruption
court?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, we quoted the relevant
portion of Philippine law, which is equivalent to our
permissive intervention, which would have permitted the
claimants to seek to intervene in the proceeding of the
Sandiganbayan. In fact --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Seek to intervene, but no
right to intervene?
MR. ROTHFELD: It is not a matter of right;
it is permissive intervention.
I think it's important to bear in mind the
status of the claimants, though, because they're --
their rights are entirely derivative of the Marcos
estate. They don't claim the Arelma assets, which are
the subject of this here before this Court. If the
Marcos estate is held to have no right to those assets,
they have no right at all and they have no rights to be
protected.
So I think it's -- it is important to
retreat to the questions that are actually before this
Court now about the meaning of Rule 19 and its
application in a situation in which there is an absent
sovereign that has asserted its sovereign immunity. And
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you address that?
That is the issue. Sovereign immunity, is this a
question of where a party is just entitled to plead
inconsistent theories? Was this a special appearance?
Why is it that the Philippines can come into court and
say, "we have sovereign immunity, and therefore the suit
must be dismissed"? Would you just address that basic
point?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think that that's --
sovereign immunity and dismissal under Rule 19 are two
different but closely related and essential aspects of
the relief of the Republic. As a matter of the
sovereign immunity, all agree at this point that it
cannot be forced to appear in this proceeding.
But that relief is of little good to the
Republic if the assets are then going to be awarded by a
U.S. court to someone else and they are dissipated and
they're gone forever. And so it's necessary to protect
its interest, its sovereign immunity, to make it -- to
effectuate it -- that the action be dismissed under Rule
19. And I think that it is something which this Court
has recognized that when there is a sovereign that
cannot be brought into the litigation and the
sovereign's interests are going to be substantially
undermined, the sovereign is an indispensable party and
dismissal is essentially automatic. That's what should
have happened here. That's the first mistake that the
district court made. And I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why couldn't -- why
couldn't the Philippines, not having been a party in
this action, pursued whoever did get the assets from
this action --
MR. ROTHFELD: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- in normal
litigation, if they objected to the resolution.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, let me amend your
question in one respect. They were a party and of
course as in their -- in their capacity as a party, they
sought dismissal under Rule 19 as well as dismissal of
themselves on sovereign immunity grounds. But to answer
specifically --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess they weren't
there for the adjudication on the merits.
MR. ROTHFELD: They were not there for the
adjudication of the merits, that's right, because they
had asserted their sovereign immunity.
I think that there -- everyone agrees, the
Ninth Circuit itself acknowledged, that once the assets
here are disbursed to Respondent and to the plaintiff
class, as a practical matter they will be beyond
recapture. There is a class of almost 10,000 people.
And when the assets are gone, to reclaim them, even if
the Sandiganbayan rules next week that Arelma is now and
always has been the property of the Republic, it will be
as a practical matter impossible to get them back.
One suggestion which is made by Respondent
and by some of its amici is that, because the Republic
is not bound here, it could bring an action against the
former stakeholder of these assets, Merrill Lynch.
That, I think, is also clearly an inadequate remedy for
the Republic. There is no guarantee that it would be
able to proceed in such a proceeding sort of
unencumbered by the judgment here. And if what we are
looking for under Rule 19 -- again, there are sort of
two components to this: There is the sovereign immunity
component, which we think is essentially a per se rule
requiring dismissal in circumstances here.
If we get beyond that and we say, under Rule
19 what are the interests that we want to advance, the
principal interest of Rule 19 is that everything gets
accommodated in a single proceeding, that this gets
resolved by the whole, as the Court has described it,
and the only way to accomplish that is dismissal of this
suit. If this action is dismissed, the court's judgment
that the Republic is an indispensable party in
litigation relating to Arelma will be binding on all the
participants to this litigation. That will mean that if
anybody sues the former stakeholder Merrill Lynch in the
future, that action will be dismissed unless or until
the Republic chooses.
JUSTICE ALITO: Would you agree that the
Republic is ultimately not going to be able to collect
these funds unless it sues in the United States and
waives its immunity in that suit? And is that -- is
that relevant to the question of whether it should have
been forced to proceed in this action?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I don't think it's
directly relevant, but I think that if one looks at the
bigger picture, it is true -- if the Republic -- if this
action is dismissed, the Sandiganbayan rules, and let's
say that it rules for the Republic, the Republic becomes
the owner of Arelma. It is then in a position to go to
Merrill Lynch and say: This is our account; give it to
us. If Merrill Lynch declines to do that, it is true
the Republic will have to seek judicial action in the
United States, but at that point it will be seeking to
enforce a judgment of the Sandiganbayan. It -- the
proceeding there will be an enforcement action. And
having -- it being armed with that judgment and having
the Philippine courts, which should be the ones that
resolve this as a matter of first instance, it will be
an entirely different kind of proceeding. And in that
proceeding, unlike this one -- as I said, the other side
says: Well, you know, not to worry here, because you
could sue Merrill Lynch. But that's inconsistent with
the purpose of Rule 19, which is to say --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, is it -- is it
fair to the private claimants here in the United States
to say, wait until the Philippine court renders a
judgment in favor of the Philippines, and then they can
come in and enforce the judgment against Merrill Lynch
or whomever is holding the assets?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think if the
Sandiganbayan rules for the Republic, the assets are the
Republic's assets. The Republic can seek --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, under the
determination of the Philippine court. But the court
here could determine that they're the private claimants'
assets, as it did.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, it did without the
participation of the Philippines.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you just told
me that the Philippines court may judge the opposite
without the participation of the private claimants.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, but the -- but again,
Your Honor, it's important to remember the private
claimants have no claim to the Arelma assets. Their
interest is entirely derivative of the Marcos estate.
The estate --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That seems to me to
be an argument on the merits, rather than with respect
to which case should proceed first.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, it goes, I think, to
the question of whether their claim is one which is
entitled to be heard in the United States. The question
is, when the Sandiganbayan decides this case as between
the two claimants that actually claim ownership of
Arelma, as opposed to derivative rights as to one or the
other of the claimants, that is the way in which it
makes sense to proceed: Have the Sandiganbayan decide
as between these two claimants, the Republic and the
estate. Once that's done, all else follows from that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would the private
claimants be able to undermine the added force of the
judgment in the Philippines, assuming a proceeding is
brought here, on the ground that they were not allowed
to participate in the proceeding in the Philippines?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think -- I would say
probably not, Your Honor, because again their interests
are entirely derivative of the Marcos estate. And so I
think they may be thought to be in privity with the
estate, and therefore, they would not have a sort of
separate right to challenge that. But I think that we
should not anticipate what the future litigation will
look like in the United States.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In privity with the
estate? You're suggesting that the plaintiffs would be
connected to the Marcos family that wants to get these
assets?
MR. ROTHFELD: No, I do not suggest any
connection between them. My only suggestion is that,
because their interest is entirely derivative of the
estate, the estate has an interest in defending its
interest there, and therefore somebody is there
litigating the question.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How much of an interest
does the estate have if it is all going to be claimed by
-- by these private plaintiffs?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, the estate has a -- as
I say, these assets have been moved around or hidden. I
think the estate may well have an interest in keeping
them intact and saying that it does have rights.
But if I may reserve the remainder of my
time, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Rothfeld.
Mr. Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
When a sovereign government cannot be made a
party to a case because of its immunity from suit, that
fact must be given great weight in determining whether
the suit nonetheless may proceed. That is true whether
the absent sovereign is the United States, one of the 50
States, an Indian tribe or, as here, a foreign state.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When you say "great
weight," Mr. Kneedler, then you are not agreeing with
Mr. Rothfeld, who says it's automatic?
MR. KNEEDLER: We believe it would be
dispositive in most cases, we think, only if the
sovereign's interests would be adequately protected by
the judgment or in the rare case that we've identified
in our brief where the sovereign's interests are
adequately protected by another sovereign, in the case
of an Indian tribe being protected by the United States.
But other than that, or where the United
States is in a case against a state, the United States
being the national sovereign, there could be special
circumstances, but we think as a whole, the -- as a
general rule, sovereign immunity controls. And that's
because sovereign immunity represents a fundamental
policy judgment either rooted in the Constitution for
the United States or the States, or judgments of the
legislative branches that the sovereign should not be
required to appear in court.
A contrary rule allowing the suit to proceed
would effectively undermine that rule of immunity and
allow the sovereign's interest to be tried behind its
back.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But suppose a case -- and
you have to do a lot of supposing. Suppose that the
Philippine Government was simply not amenable to the
process of the court, not because of foreign immunity,
but just because it was outside the geographic area
where process ran. It just can't be made a party.
Exactly the same analysis as here?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think that's probably
correct if the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act governs
the service of process under the Act, and if the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I understand, but in my
hypothetical case it's just as if somebody is at the
North Pole and you can't serve them.
MR. KNEEDLER: Right. But if the sovereign
-- if the foreign sovereign can't be sued, I think it's
all the more -- I mean it can't even be reached -- it
may be all the more reason why that interest should be
given weight.
We think the sovereign interest in this case
is particularly compelling for reasons that have already
been stated. The Government of the Philippines claims
that it owns these assets. By contrast, the Respondents
are unsecured judgment creditors. The Government of the
Philippines claims it owns these, these assets, under a
special Philippine statute dating to 1955 that declares
ill-gotten gains gained toward -- during time in office,
forfeit to the government, and it has a strong interest
in having that dispute resolved in its own courts.
As we explain in our brief, the United
States strongly supports that position and that interest
of the United States is strongly supported by the fact
that it is a party to a mutual legal assistance treaty
with the Philippines. Such treaties are common in this
country. There is a comparable treaty between the
Philippines and the Swiss Government which led to the
repatriation from Switzerland to the Philippines of a
large --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Kneedler,
getting back to your previous point, why isn't the
Philippine National -- why don't -- why doesn't the
Philippine National Bank adequately represent the
interest of the Republic? Under Philippine law, as I
understand, any recovery by the bank in this case would
be the property of the Philippines.
MR. KNEEDLER: Because the Philippines --
excuse me. The Philippine National Bank is an escrow
agent. It would have a conflict of interest in
representing the interests of the Government of the
Philippines with respect to its prior claim to the
assets as against the Marcos estate. PNB is holding
these assets in escrow pending the outcome of the very
litigation we are talking about in the Philippines.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they are --
they're certainly subject to Philippine law, and I
understand that there's no dispute that under Philippine
law the assets would be taken from the Philippine
National Bank for the benefit of the government.
MR. KNEEDLER: That's true, but the
interests of the Philippine Government in obtaining --
in having its interest confirmed that it owns these
assets as of the time of the wrongdoing going back to
1972, that interest would not be advanced by PNB because
PNB is holding them in escrow depending -- pending the
outcome of that very dispute between the Marcoses and
the Philippine Government and couldn't be expected to
advance in this case the Government of the Philippines'
interest or claim of ownership to those assets.
One other international agreement I wanted
to mention was the Convention Against Corruption, to
which the United States is a party. And also there is a
statute passed by Congress, 2467, that provides for
forfeiture in the United States of assets that are
deemed to be forfeited pursuant to a foreign proceeding.
So international agreements --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Doesn't that depend on
there being a foreign judgment, which we don't have in
this case?
MR. KNEEDLER: We -- we don't have it yet,
but that -- that reflects the important interest of
having our courts stay their hands pending the outcome
of the proceedings in the Philippines in which that
would be determined.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't it also a
requirement that in that proceeding in the foreign
nation that all claimants would have an opportunity to
be heard, which is not true here?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, what -- what the
statute requires is that the foreign proceedings be in
accordance with due process and that parties claiming an
-- an interest in the property be entitled to be
present. Again, the claimants here do not claim an
interest in the property as an owner.
They are unsecured judgment creditors of the
-- of the Marcos estate, and it -- it might be useful to
think about what is true in the reverse situation, in
the forfeiture proceeding brought by the United States
in U.S. courts against a criminal defendant, for
example. An unsecured creditor of the -- of the
defendant claiming the assets is typically found not
even to have standing to intervene. But if it does
intervene, it would not have a claim superior to that of
the United States because it wouldn't be a bona fide
purchaser of the assets, and it wouldn't be without
knowledge of the illegal conduct.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Kneedler, may I ask
you this question: Would the case be different if there
were secured creditors rather than judgment creditors?
MR. KNEEDLER: In -- in U.S. courts a
secured creditor would get past the standing stage, but
would not -- would not get past the bona fide purchaser
for value without knowledge of the wrongdoing.
In this case it has been clear since 1986,
for example, that the Government of the Philippines has
-- has been seeking the repatriation of Arelma and its
assets.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it's been doing it on
a fairly sporadic basis. If I remember the facts
correctly, first it got a stay with respect to the
disposition of assets, and then the stay expired and the
government didn't do anything about it, and then the
government didn't come into action again until this
particular claim was raised.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I think it --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Maybe -- let me put the --
sort of my response in the form of a question. In
drawing or refusing to draw the conclusion of
"indispensable party," do you claim that a court may or
may not consider the equitable or inequitable behavior
of the government?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- perhaps in an
extreme case, but I -- first of all, I think the courts
of the United States should be very reluctant to deem a
foreign government's conduct inequitable in the sense
that you're describing it. And I think, for the reasons
Mr. Rothfeld said, repatriating these assets is an
extremely complicated thing. But the Philippines
Government sought these assets in -- beginning in 1986,
obtained a freeze order in 1986, again in 1990. It got
a final determination by the district attorney in
Switzerland in 1995, confirmed by the federal court of
Switzerland in 1997, that the assets could be returned.
These assets, the shares, the Arelma shares, however,
were not actually returned until 2000 by the Swiss
Government.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there any explanation
why the freeze that was imposed by a U.S. court in 1987
was simply allowed to lapse?
MR. KNEEDLER: That was the preliminary
injunction and I'm not sure what happened after that.
But I did want -- the proceedings in Switzerland, I did
want to make clear, because there was a suggestion that
the Philippine Government was duplicitous by encouraging
this suit and at the same time seeking the assets. But
as I just pointed out. It has been clear since 1986 and
through a whole series of proceedings in Switzerland and
in the Philippines that the Government of the
Philippines has been claiming all of the Marcos assets,
specifically including the Arelma assets --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, maybe --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- from the very beginning.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, maybe they have been
have been candid about their claims, but they -- in
real-world practical terms, the claim to these assets
and the representation at the same time that it's
appropriate for these people to proceed in the United
States for a money judgment, are at least in some
tension with each other, aren't they?
MR. KNEEDLER: I do not believe so. If we
thought about an analogy at the United States, if the
United States filed a brief in this Court saying that a
former Government official could be sued, did not have
qualified immunity and could be sued in his personal
capacity, or didn't -- or could be sued individually and
the Westfall Act did not protect him, that would in no
way make -- be a representation by the United States
that a judgment against that officer could be satisfied
out of assets of the United States, including assets
that the United States might be seeking to recover
from -- from the defendant.
And we think the Philippine Government is in
essentially the same position. And a finding of
liability in this case -- the judgment does constitute a
finding of liability so that with respect to -- it would
give these Respondents here the ability to go to
Philippine court, to file a claim in the probate
proceedings in the Philippines as these Respondents have
done. So the judgment, even without being satisfied,
serves the Respondents' interests to a great extent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Kneedler.
Mr. Swift.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. SWIFT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. SWIFT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I would like to address as a first point the
issue you raise, which is perhaps seminal to you, and
that is whether there is an adequate alternative remedy
to the human rights victims, either in the United States
or in the Philippines. Our answer is, unequivocally,
there is no remedy.
Let me talk about the Philippines first.
Any forfeiture proceeding in the Philippines is in rem.
Its supreme court has so declared. These assets are in
the United States. There cannot be two jurisdictions
that share in rem assets.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, doesn't the -- maybe
this makes no difference, but doesn't the Philippine
National Bank have the -- whatever they call them, the
share certificates or stock certificates that represent
the Arelma assets at this point?
MR. SWIFT: That's right. Switzerland
confiscated those certificates from a Swiss financier
and transferred them to the Philippines.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. Couldn't they --
couldn't they bring an in rem in the Philippines based
on the presence in the Philippines of those two
certificates?
MR. SWIFT: They can, and that's in fact
what is occurring.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. SWIFT: However, it's also apparent from
the facts in this case that those certificates were
never the property of the Philippine Government, never,
ever. There is absolute clear evidence in this record,
in the joint appendix on that, which makes the whole
issue --
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought the issue in the
Philippines is the question of whether the money that
went into the stock certificates eventually belonged to
the people of the Philippines from the beginning or
belonged to Marcos personally?
MR. SWIFT: Well, that's --
JUSTICE BREYER: And you're saying that
there's no possibility whatsoever that a Philippine
court could say that this money initially belonged to
the people of the Philippines?
MR. SWIFT: They could not say that in a
forfeiture proceeding because --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm saying whether they --
I don't care what the name of the proceeding is. I'm
saying could they decide that?
MR. SWIFT: Yes, sir, absolutely.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, if they
decide that, why should your clients, terribly treated
as they were, get the money ahead of the victims in the
Philippines, who also were terribly treated?
MR. SWIFT: Because the judgment in the
Philippines would not be in rem, Mr. Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought Justice Souter
just answered that. He said that the stock certificates
might be held to belong to the people of the
Philippines, in which case the stock certificates
represent stock in a company that has a claim against
Merrill Lynch, and so they will say, this certificate
belongs to the people of the Philippines; the people of
the Philippines would like you, Merrill Lynch, to pay
back the money that the company gave them initially.
And Merrill Lynch I imagine would pay it. Now that I
think is as I understand it. Is there something wrong
with my understanding?
MR. SWIFT: I think your understanding is
correct in that regard; however, the law both in the
Philippines and in the United States draws a clear
distinction between the ownership of stock and a
corporation's ownership of assets. Certainly Dole v.
Patrickson stands for that proposition.
The -- a judgment rendered as to the
certificates in the Philippines or even as to the assets
would not be in rem. So if that judgment came over to
the United States to be enforced, they would stand in
the same position as any other judgment creditor, not a
judgment creditor with a claim to specific assets, but a
judgment creditor as to a specific amount of money.
Let me answer another question which was
asked --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I would like you to
address -- you seem to put heavy weight on this in rem
characterization. That is a judgment there's a thing.
But our law over the years has come to appreciate that
things do not have rights; people have rights in things.
So we have modified the once rigid notion that the suit
is against a thing, to recognize that it's people's
rights in the thing that count. And your use of that
label seems to forget about all the more recent
understanding.
MR. SWIFT: Justice Ginsburg, I believe
interpleader is, statutory interpleader, is an in rem
nature of a proceeding. In fact, it was the best and
most appropriate and the only proceeding in which all
claimants could be -- their claims could be heard. It's
a shame that the Philippine Government didn't come in,
as it did in twelve other cases it brought in the United
States, including two interpleaders, to say: Yes and
this is our evidence. What it suggests is that they had
no evidence to support it, and they want to be in their
own court. Why do they want to be in their own court?
Because it won't be defended by the Marcoses. And the
very rule that they cited in their reply brief -- and by
the way, the reply brief was the first time in all this
litigation they have ever asserted that the human rights
victims have a remedy by intervening in the
Sandiganbayan in the Philippines. We don't. The rule
that they quote says as to assets in the court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did -- did the district
court in Hawaii or the Ninth Circuit ever decide what
the Petitioners tell us is the basic question, that is
do these assets belong to the Philippine Government
under that 1955 statute, or do they belong to the Marcos
estate? It seemed to me that our courts were just
assuming that the assets belonged to the Marcos estate
and that the plaintiffs in the lawsuit were creditors of
the Marcos estate.
MR. SWIFT: Your Honor is correct that there
was an underlying belief by the court, that the court
accepted as valid the Republic's claim that it owned the
assets, the assets were stolen. But the evidence in the
case, and the two lower courts specifically found on the
basis of that evidence, that these were Marcos assets;
and this finding was made after the completion of
discovery, after a deposition in -- in France.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it didn't say, find,
that: And they belong to the Marcos estate and not the
Philippine Government.
MR. SWIFT: Not the latter part of your
equation. They did not say that they did not belong to
the Philippine Government. By saying they belonged to
Ferdinand Marcos it was sufficient, it was sufficient
evidence.
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't see that finding
in the court of appeals decision. I thought the court
of appeals thought that they belonged -- they couldn't
possibly belong to the Philippine Government or the
people there, because there is no way that the
Philippine Government could win in a suit in New York in
trying to recover them. But the Solicitor General has
provided about two or three ways, in which and so -- and
so have the Petitioners -- and that seems to me the
heart of the issue. They have said: No, no, there are
two or three ways in which the Philippine Government
might well -- it might well ask a court for the money
and the court would say, yes, you're entitled to it.
So that it seems to me, that's the heart of
it. What is your response to that?
MR. SWIFT: I'd like to go through each way
in which they say they can and convince you that they
can't. First, they could proceed in a forfeiture
proceeding in the Philippines. But of course that
wouldn't be in rem, so they couldn't get to first base
as to the assets. As to the share certificates, yes,
but of course that in effect is a nullity because they
never belonged to the Philippine Government. That
aside, we put aside that factual --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Wait a minute. I missed
your last step. If it's an in rem proceeding against
the share certificates what -- what difference does it
make whether they ever belonged to the Philippines?
MR. SWIFT: Because ownership of the share
certificates is not a right to the assets, a per se
right. There would have to be some additional rights.
The assets are ones --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So you're saying an in rem
proceeding against the certificates simply will not
resolve the issue; that's the -- that's the guts of the
answer.
MR. SWIFT: That's correct. The other two,
two types of proceedings, one could be a conversion and
one breach of contract, both of which would be barred by
statute of limitations.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, well, that isn't what
they say. I think, if I understand it, that they say
that were the share certificates in the hands of the
Philippine Government on the ground, that the money used
to create those had been taken from the Philippine
people unlawfully, if that's what they decide, at that
point the owner of the certificates, the government,
would say to Merrill Lynch: We own the company, the
company has the assets; please send us the money. And
Merrill Lynch would do it.
But if Merrill Lynch didn't do it, then they
would file the judgment saying, these are our share
certificates, in the New York court and say, will you
please enforce the judgment. Now, there is something
there that I'm not quite getting and that's why I want
you to respond to the line of happenings that I just
suggested.
MR. SWIFT: Well, an important fact that you
left out was that in the year 2000, when the Philippine
Government through PNB controlled the Arelma
certificates, a request to Merrill Lynch was made. The
request was refused. So if there was a breach it
occurred in the year 2000. Remember, after the
certificates were transferred from Switzerland to the
Philippines the PNB then created a new board of
directors and they went directly to Merrill Lynch.
The whole point of this exercise was, of
course, to circumvent the courts of the United States.
I only learned about the assets in the year 2000 and
then proceeded to try to recover them.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But may I ask you this
question, though. Merrill Lynch refused in the year
2000, but if the proceeding that Justice Breyer has just
been describing takes place and there is a judgment to
the effect that the share certificates are properly held
or the property of the Philippine Government, and the
Philippine Government now makes, or then, makes a new
request to Merrill Lynch, the fact that they made a
request that was refused in 2000, which may be too late
to sue on, isn't going to prevent them from suing on
their present adjudication that they are the true owners
of the share certificates and want the money.
MR. SWIFT: But I believe there is an
important part of the equation that's left out of that
question, and that is the rights of the Philippine
government as the new shareholder will not be any
greater than those of the prior shareholder. The prior
shareholder made a demand and did not receive the money.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. You're saying -- I
think you're saying that the demand would be ineffectual
this time for the same reason it was ineffectual the
last time.
MR. SWIFT: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And the suggestion I
thought that Justice Breyer had made and that I made was
this time they can do something further. They can take
the judgment and go into a United States court and say:
We've got this judgment, there's no question that these
shares and what they represent are ours; so make Merrill
Lynch give us the money. What prevents them from doing
that?
MR. SWIFT: Nothing prevents them from
making the demand. But when they go into court and ask
for that, first of all, Merrill Lynch can do what it did
here, which is to file an interpleader and say: We want
all the claimants to come forth and make the claim.
Then we have a redo.
What we have below is a judgment, a judgment
that we're seeking to enforce and we contend that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the difference in
the redo is that in the second case that's just been
hypothesized, the Philippine government is represented.
We are making these assumptions, and the Philippines
government says: You can make these assumptions, but
they may very well be wrong; we want to be represented
before you make those assumptions.
MR. SWIFT: Well, they had that right in the
year 2000 when they chose to exercise their sovereign
immunity. So, what has changed? They would have to
waive their sovereign immunity to go --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Any party that's beyond
the process of the court has a right to come in. The
question is what happens if they are not there.
MR. SWIFT: Well, they were brought in.
They chose to exit. They then paid for the prosecution
of claims by PNB and Arelma, in effect acting as
surrogate, reflective of a question that was asked
earlier. Then when they were dissatisfied with the
result, they then want to use PNB and Arelma to upset
that pursuant to a Rule 19(b) motion.
JUSTICE BREYER: There is a huge change.
The change would be that they'd a judgment of that
special court over there that this company and the
assets understandably belong to us, not to the Marcoses.
And so this time, they go with that judgment to Merrill
Lynch and say: Give us the money.
And if they -- if they don't -- if Merrill
Lynch says no -- Merrill Lynch might say yes, but you'll
say, no, it belongs to us, so they might not. And if
they don't, then the Philippines are never going to get
the money, unless they bring the lawsuit. And once they
bring the lawsuit, then you have them, because then you
go right into the court in that lawsuit and intervene
and they have waived all their sovereign immunity, et
cetera, they can't get the money.
MR. SWIFT: Then you have a redo of what
they started out this proceeding doing --
JUSTICE BREYER: With a difference.
MR. SWIFT: -- which was judge shopping and
forum shopping. They were -- they were --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But isn't that what --
that's what sovereign immunity means. I mean, they do
have the right to pick their forum. You say I can only
be sued when I consent, so I can consent where I will.
The problem with what you're presenting is
it sounds like, yes, you have sovereign immunity, you
don't have to be part of this lawsuit and it can't
affect your rights, but then when it seems to be
eventual judgment, it's a default judgment effectively
against the Philippines, because they can never get
those assets once they're disbursed. So, it's a -- it's
kind of a deceptive immunity, because by asserting the
immunity they are going to lose their opportunity to
claim these assets.
MR. SWIFT: Well, what Your Honor is
suggesting is that there should be a per se rule under
Rule 19(b). I don't believe it's the role of this Court
to change Rule 19(b).
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not necessarily. I'm
focusing on this situation. There could be others.
MR. SWIFT: Well, then we have two lower
courts that have balanced and weighed all appropriate
factors. There is no suggesting that there are other
factors. They -- I believe that the standard of review
for this Court is whether or not the lower courts
considered the factors and engaged in an appropriate
balancing and weighing --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In making that balancing,
what weight did they give to the sovereign immunity of
the Philippines?
MR. SWIFT: Significant weight. The Ninth
Circuit said it was a powerful factor. And then it went
into other factors, some of which Justice Ginsburg
mentioned: The 22-year delay. They have known about
this for a long time.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that the Ninth
Circuit went on a statute of limitations in New York.
It didn't give the sovereign immunity claim, it seems,
in the end of the day any weight, because it says we
don't have to worry about the Philippines being out of
this case because they would have no claim on the
merits.
MR. SWIFT: Let me pose a different example
to you, Justice Ginsburg, and that is, what if this were
a bankruptcy proceeding and the foreign sovereign said:
Oh, those assets really belong to us, they were stolen,
and we'll decide that in our country.
Now, it could be any country of the world.
Would the U.S. court stand for that? Are U.S. courts
supposed to give away and surrender and be ousted of
their own jurisdiction in in rem actions and farm out
decisions to foreign countries? And in our case we're
not even going to be represented, nor will the Marcoses?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So there might be a
different situation in your hypothetical with respect to
bankruptcy. In effect, there's an administrator against
whom the Philippines could proceed, unlike the situation
here, where you have a class and which the prospect of
the Philippines proceeding later is not realistic.
MR. SWIFT: Well, I submit that the
underlying principle is a solid one, and that is U.S.
courts do have in rem jurisdiction. We have 28 U.S.C.
1655. It's one of the oldest forms of jurisdiction we
have in this country. And we should not be surrendering
that to a foreign sovereign and farming out per decision
decisions about assets. These assets are not
transitory. They have been here 35 years.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but may I ask a sort
of -- maybe it's too elementary a question, but has any
court ever decided the merits of the question whether
the Marcos estate or the Philippine Government owns
these assets?
MR. SWIFT: The lower court -- well, not as
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: It decided there was no
remedy, I understand that. But has it decided the
merits of the basic dispute?
MR. SWIFT: It has, based on evidence, based
on depositions, that these assets belonged to Marcos.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where is that? Then why
were they bothering with the statute of limitations?
Both courts said that the action would be time barred in
New York. But if they made a definitive ruling that the
assets belonged to the Marcos estate and not the
Philippine Government, then that would be preclusive.
MR. SWIFT: I -- are you saying that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I just did not find in
either the district court or the court of appeals an
answer to that basic question: Whose assets are they?
It seemed to me they were assuming the assets belonged
to the estate and not to the Philippine Government, but
they made no specific finding on that issue.
MR. SWIFT: There are a number of findings,
but obviously, because the Philippine Government was not
a party in the case, there was no finding specific to
the Philippine Government. But the finding that they
were -- belonged to Ferdinand Marcos is sufficient. You
do not need the counter-finding that they did not belong
to the Republic.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then you're ignoring
a 1955 law that says anything that belongs to Marcos
that he didn't get legitimately belongs to the
government.
MR. SWIFT: Well, again, that's a forfeiture
issue. The assets have to be in the Philippines, and
there have been many forfeiture proceedings in the
Philippines as to Marcos assets.
To answer a question Justice Kennedy raised
earlier, aren't there other assets, they've have already
recovered over a billion dollars of assets. There is
still hundreds of millions, if not a billion, in the
Philippines.
You know, from the record and what I've
submitted, that we're not able to transfer our American
judgment to the Philippines. The United Nations Human
Rights Committee has even found a violation of
international law by the Republic in preventing us from
doing that. We've had to go to that body. Do we think
that we are going to get justice in a Philippine court
that's never adjudicated human rights violation, much
less our right to the assets? Think how easy it would
be for the Marcoses and the Philippine Government to
simply make a deal as to these assets.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because aren't those
issues that could be addressed when the Philippines
attempt to enforce a judgment they would get in the
Philippines if they do in fact get such a judgment?
MR. SWIFT: Well, then we run into such
issues like the act of state doctrine. And we have --
then we will -- our defense will be undermined because
they will say a U.S. court cannot re-examine those --
that determination. So it's a catch-22 for us. We
proceeded as we were --
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you have -- I mean I
don't see you have a claim there as opposed to the --
the worst that would happen, not necessarily good for
your clients, but the worst that would happen would be
that the assets would be devoted to victims and their
families in the Philippines. I mean, namely to the
Philippine people. So I don't see some kind of
fundamental unfairness here, unless you can point one
out.
MR. SWIFT: Well, I --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean they'll treat you
like another creditor and you have -- but is there some
terrible unfairness going on?
MR. SWIFT: What Your Honor is suggesting is
that a useful approach to this case is to say, well, if
the Philippine Government gets the money, then won't
that benefit everybody? Well, then you have to look at
the characteristic of the country, something I'm very
familiar with but which I don't want to -- I think it
would be inappropriate in this proceeding to talk about.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there -- is there
something special going on, specially unfair, in respect
to the delays where you are treated differently than
other litigants in the Philippines?
MR. SWIFT: Yes. There was purposeful delay
in us being able to transfer our judgment. We are just
in the pleadings stage after 11 years there.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, what does
unfairness have to do with it? I mean the whole
doctrine of sovereign immunity rests upon unfairness.
It says you can't sue the sovereign even if you have a
valid claim. And when we say we will apply the same
doctrine as to foreign sovereigns, it means the same
thing. I'm just not terribly persuaded by the fact that
it has unfair consequences. The doctrine of sovereign
immunity always has unfair consequences. So, unless
you're asking us to abandon the doctrine, the fairness
argument does not persuade me.
MR. SWIFT: Well, I think the issue was
resolved pursuant to 19(b). Unless this Court
determines that there is a per se rule under 19(b), we
weigh factors, and it's the role of this Court to
determine whether or not there was -- the lower courts
did not make a decision based on equity and good
conscience, one of the broadest parameters of
decisionmaking provided by a lower court.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I go back on exactly
that point on the equity to Justice Breyer's last
question? I thought you had given or anticipated his
question in something you said a moment ago, and then
you didn't repeat it, and I may have misunderstood you.
I thought you had told us that the courts of the
Philippines did not recognize, for enforcement purposes
there, the judgment that your clients had obtained in
the United States, and that in effect they, therefore,
if they were going to make a claim on assets in the
Philippines, they would have to start from scratch
again. Is that correct? Did I misunderstand you?
MR. SWIFT: Well, our judgment has not been
enforced. They asked -- initially asked for a filing
fee of $8.4 million. We appealed that, after eight
years and some months. They finally said, yes, the
filing fee is $10. So, it was sent back down where
there was still more delay. I mean, I'm a realist. I
mean, how many years is it going to take?
JUSTICE ALITO: So they just -- they in fact
are obstructing the process --
MR. SWIFT: That's right.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- trying to recognize it?
MR. SWIFT: And the U.N. -- the United
Nations Human Rights Committee has so found.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Let me ask you this: Did
the Philippine Government formally take a position in
raising these obstructive barriers, the $8 million
filing fee, for example?
MR. SWIFT: It did not.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. That was sua sponte
with the court?
MR. SWIFT: It was sua sponte with the --
actually raised with the Marcoses initially, and the
court simply said yes, it's $8.4 million.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't that -- I mean it
sounds shocking, but I thought that in the Philippines,
as in many countries, the filing fee is determined by
what you're asking for. So it would be a percentage of
$2 billion. And if they just did that automatically,
then you say, oh, but, but this -- the filing fee of
that size would mean that the Plaintiffs can't sue. But
that's -- but it wasn't they picked whatever figure,
filing fee, out of a hat; it was a percentage of what
was sought in the litigation right?
MR. SWIFT: That's -- you're correct in your
analysis. The -- except there was another provision of
the fee statute which we went under and which they
ultimately -- the Philippine Supreme Court said that we
were correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, before you
sit down, you haven't mentioned anything about your
argument that the Philippines don't have the right to
raise this. Are you throwing in the towel on that one?
MR. SWIFT: Absolutely not. We think that
argument is definitive. First, on one hand, with regard
to the Philippine Government and its PCGG: They were
not parties to the judgment. Therefore under Karcher,
Marino, Devlin --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the
Philippines National Bank and Arelma were, and of course
they've appealed. And I understand the law to be they
can raise these arguments. We don't have need to have
an independent basis for the Philippines.
MR. SWIFT: That's true, but we've also
pointed out that Arelma and PNB have thrown in the towel
as to the merits. Remember, they're parties that are
separate parties. They had claims on the merits. Their
claims were resolved against them inter se, and so they
no longer have a dog in the fight.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, they do because if
they are able to successfully knock out the judgment,
then they are back to square one. Then they -- they
lost on the merits, but that judgment would be wiped
out.
MR. SWIFT: Well, perhaps under Rule 19(b)
the lower court may still rule that there is a -- a
definitive judgment as to them against other creditors.
And in fact that -- there has been --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If there was no authority
of the court to proceed, then the judgment is -- is as
though it were never made.
MR. SWIFT: Well, that's perhaps one way of
looking at it, Justice Ginsburg. I submit to you that
the -- the decision I would respectfully request you
look at is Horizon Bank and Trust Company versus
Massachusetts, where the same facts occurred. The First
Circuit -- Massachusetts did the same thing the Republic
of the Philippines did here. It did the two-step dance:
We're sovereign, we're indispensable. It was denied by
the lower court. The lower court then, since the United
States was a party and the State didn't have immunity as
to that, it went into the merits determination.
Massachusetts appealed only appealed only the 19(b)
decision. And the Court of Appeals held that because
they had not appealed the merits decision, the same as
here, therefore, there was no longer a live controversy,
and live controversy is a requirement of standing in
this Court, or power to appeal in this Court.
So, in addition, although there isn't a lot
of case law in this Court on this particular point, I
would refer you to the Ashcroft v. Mattis decision
because the same principle was applied there where there
was no appeal permitted to this Court. Finally, the
one thing that I have not really addressed is Merrill
Lynch's interest. The whole nature of "interpleader" is
that the stakeholder should have an adequate remedy.
Merrill Lynch has significant business interests, as do
many banks, many insurance companies, in getting a
resolution. This matter, in itself, has gone on for
eight years. There have been over a dozen appeals in
this particular piece of litigation.
Doesn't -- isn't there a significant
business interest that has to be weighed in that
equation so that Merrill Lynch -- only a stakeholder
will continue to have to defend, defend, defend,
interplead and so forth?
I submit to you that there is a policy
judgment that has to be made by this Court as to the
rules with regard to interpleader and in rem proceedings
and whether this Court is prepared to surrender
jurisdiction to foreign courts to make --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If -- if the proceeding
can't go forward because of sovereign immunity, that
judgment would shield Merrill Lynch from any other
claim. It could say to any other claimant: Sorry, a
binding judgment has been issued saying this matter
can't be settled without the Philippines being in it.
So I don't really get your: Merrill Lynch is going to
be subject to repeated proceedings. They will be armed
with a judgment that says, suit can't go on without the
Philippines being there.
MR. SWIFT: Well, let me -- let me take you
on, on that point. We have one other remedy, and that
is execution. Execution doesn't require joinder of all
parties. It's a singular proceeding that people can
join in, but we would have the right to execute, and you
can bet that that is exactly what we will do.
So, to some extent, what is being argued
here is somewhat besides the point because if that money
goes back to Merrill Lynch, we can, and will, execute on
that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Rothfeld, you have three minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITONER
MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Your Honor.
A couple of points. First of all, there is
no doubt that the Republic has a substantial interest in
the assets that are at stake here. And, therefore, its
sovereign immunity, at least in the context of this
case, should be dispositive and should have led to
dismissal under Rule 19.
There -- this Court in the Provident case
noted that there are certain compelling, substantive
considerations that are dispositive under Rule 19 that
make it unnecessary to consider any other balancing
consideration. Sovereign immunity is one such
consideration. And because the Republic has immunity,
has asserted immunity --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You agree that the Ninth
Circuit gave sovereign immunity great weight in the
balancing?
MR. ROTHFELD: I think it gave it no weight
at all. I think it said that, yes, in theory, sovereign
immunity is entitled to weight. But in this case we are
going to ignore it completely because we believe that if
the Republic appears in New York and asserts its
interests, it will lose under statute of limitation
grounds. That is a completely inappropriate way of
treating it.
Once the sovereign immunity was asserted and
there was a substantial interest in the asset here, as
there undoubtedly was, that should have been the end of
the matter.
The second point is there is no question
that, ultimately, this is a dispute between the Marcos
estate and the Republic. There is no question that the
claims of the Respondents here are entirely derivative
of the Marcos estate; and, therefore, that is something
that has to be decided first: Whether this belongs to
the estate, the Respondents, or the Republic. And that
is a determination that should be made in the courts of
the Philippines.
It is not a question of surrendering the
jurisdiction of U.S. courts. There is a general
consensus that stolen assets, assets stolen by corrupt
leaders, should be returned to the nation of origin, and
determination as to ownership should be made by the
courts of that nation. That's stated on the U.N.
Convention on Corruption to which the U.S. and the
Philippines are a party.
All of the nations that have an interest in
the relevant assets, not only the Republic but the
United States and Switzerland, all agreed that it is
appropriate for the Sandiganbayan to make that
determination as between the Republic and the estate.
If it's ruled for the estate, the Respondent
can attempt to collect as a judgment creditor. If it
goes to the Republic, the Republic can assert its
interest directly with Merrill Lynch as the owner of
Arelma. If Merrill Lynch declines to pay, it can in a
number of ways try to enforce its -- either with the
assistance of the United States according to U.S.
statute, in which case the Sandiganbayan's factual
determinations would be dispositive, or it can bring an
action under -- under New York law. That is the only
way in which there could be a single proceeding that
resolves everybody's interests.
In this proceeding, as all agree, the
Republic is free, for whatever it is actually worth, to
sue Merrill Lynch. That is precisely what Rule 19 is
designed to avoid, duplicative litigation, the
possibility of duplicative liability.
If the Sandiganbayan rules, the Republic
comes here and initiates an action, everybody who has a
claim can be brought into that action. As Justice
Ginsburg noted, there is no possibility that Merrill
Lynch could be subjected to duplicative liability
because this Court's judgment would determine that the
Republic is an indispensable party.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Rothfeld. The case is submitted.
[Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.]
44:14 23:12 anybody 15:11 Ashcroft 51:6 assistance 22:3
50:1 advanced 23:8 apart 10:16 aside 34:24,24 55:8
56:4 agent 22:18 29:18 39:2 47:18,18 assume 5:14
agree 12:21 appealed 47:19 46:20 48:18 33:7 43:15
agreed 54:24 appeals 34:2,3 asserted 12:7 attempt 45:1
23:14 appear 12:22 asserting 40:12 attributed 5:1
ahead 5:10,11 APPEARAN... 3:24 4:2,7,12 automatically
45:4 al 1:10 3:5 appears 53:22 5:6 6:4,7,19 avoid 55:17
14:16 allow 20:20 applied 51:7 9:15,20 10:4,7 56:3
allowed 18:4 apply 46:15 10:17 11:23,25
appreciate 32:1 12:24 13:14 B
25:17
55:11,20 allowing 20:18 approach 45:23 14:6,10,17 back 8:19 10:24
alternative appropriate 16:20,22,23 14:13 20:21
28:17 19:13 14:11 15:9,25 26:12,13,24 bank 22:12,14
amount 10:7 17:10,21 25:10 27:3,4,9,23,23 22:17 23:3
44:25 amounts 10:22 29:7 36:10 31:12,15,19 50:15
analogy 27:15 39:1,4 49:15 32:25 33:4,7 bankruptcy
21:3 49:1 argued 52:18 34:21 35:5,7 banks 51:13
22:12 28:21 31:21 2:2,10 3:3,7 39:9 40:11,14 43:7
44:8 19:11 28:13 42:22 43:4,9 base 34:20
47:2 body 44:18 41:16 42:2 14:25 20:11 55:20
bothering 43:6 51:5 53:6,8,20 36:18 44:16 48:4
49:18 branch 10:13 cases 5:7 20:2 citizens 3:20 4:3 companies
30:2 36:12 certain 3:19 11:23 17:10,17 31:4 35:23,24
2:4,6,9,12 30:5,11,15,20 certainly 5:18 23:13 24:12,22 comparable
19:12 30:21 34:1 22:25 31:12 25:18,23 27:9 22:5
52:25 35:16 36:23 certainty 3:25 28:6 30:25 compelling
27:14 brief 11:7 20:5 30:1,22,24 46:15 47:14 completely
37:8 21:25 27:16 31:15 34:21 52:5 55:21 53:21,24
53:21 32:20,21 35:2,5,9,18,22 claimant 52:5 completion
33:4,5 29:12 39:16,17 cetera 39:20 11:14,21 16:16 26:7
34:4 55:10 challenge 18:11 17:1,7,10,20 component
41:21 bringing 7:1 change 39:6,7 17:22,24 18:2 14:24
broader 5:25 40:18 24:6,12 32:12 components
30:1,3,7 brought 8:14 characteristic claimed 18:25 concerns 3:11
34:3 13:6 18:4 46:1 claiming 8:22 conclusion
35:3 24:17 32:14 characterizati... 24:10,20 27:3 25:22
38:24 55:21 31:25 claims 8:14 condemn 9:5,8
39:14 51:18 2:3,11 3:7 32:12 39:1 26:4
54:10 52:24 49:22,23 54:8 confirmed 23:6
C 2:1 3:1 13:12,17,25 clear 7:7 25:8 confiscated 29:9
38:21 27:19 22:24 28:10,15 clients 30:16 connected 18:16
48:19 17:15,19 19:18 56:1 collect 8:22 conscience 47:3
23:12,23 25:2 Circuit 14:6 16:19 25:17 consequences
42:14 46:1 55:3 24:20 27:25 25:2 41:18
11:1 course 7:25 24:14 25:3,3 defending 18:21 differently 46:6
13:21 34:19,22 33:8 50:7 defense 45:5 directed 4:12,20
court 1:1,15 curiae 1:22 2:7 49:10 50:7 36:16 55:5
11:6,10,24 10:17 delays 46:6 disbursed 14:7
33:11 34:2,2 deceptive 40:12 Deputy 1:20 15:7,12,23
54:20 37:22 38:3,22 30:13,16 33:2 17:11,21 18:8 25:15
40:25 41:24 decided 4:1 described 15:5 53:6,10 55:10
45:6 46:23,25 decides 17:19 designed 55:17 21:24 23:1,10
49:3 50:6,10 5:22 34:2 16:25 26:10 dissatisfied 39:3
33:10 51:3,3,5,8,23 50:14,24,25 54:12,18 55:1 distinction
47:16 51:25 53:8 51:6 determinations 31:11
49:4 courts 3:16,23 decisionmaking 55:10 district 13:11
25:4 26:2 33:6 42:16 determined 24:3 division 5:5
23:15 40:22,25 41:24 declared 28:25 determines docket 5:5
42:12 43:7 declares 21:21 46:24 doctrine 7:5
52:22 54:12,15,19 55:6 19:19 46:18,20
create 35:20 23:19 difference 5:15 37:25 39:22
creditor 24:19 defend 7:9 51:20 38:10 39:23 Dole 31:12
37:9 51:19 exercise 6:21 fight 49:24 former 3:18
equities 5:13 exit 38:25 file 28:6 36:2 14:17 15:11
44:9 ESQ 1:18,20,24 explanation final 26:10 forward 6:17
19:11 essentially 13:9 52:18 financier 29:9 33:14 44:16
39:1 estate 1:9 6:20 extremely 26:7 finding 28:2,4 France 33:17
47:13 7:13,14,17,19 33:16 34:1 free 55:15
9:17 10:4,5 fact 6:15,23 8:20 findings 43:18 fundamental
18:25 19:2,4 36:8 37:3 45:2 26:2 28:17,23 futility 6:21
43:13 33:6,7,9,19 50:8 38:4 49:10 18:12
42:21 43:9,16 factor 41:7 50:16 53:2
55:2 41:1,8 46:25 five 5:2 G 3:1
et 1:10 3:5 39:19 29:19 50:16 follows 17:25 gains 21:22
38:9 45:1 everybody fair 8:24 9:1 15:19 54:15
45:25 55:20 16:16 foreign 19:22 geographic 21:1
55:13 fairness 46:20 23:19,22 24:5 36:5 51:13
47:11 32:16,17 33:13 families 45:14 41:20 42:2,15 6:9,14,23 11:3
32:8 43:10,16,19,21 Horizon 50:15 6:24 9:13 interpleader
40:1 44:3,22 45:24 huge 39:6 inconsistent 32:9,9 38:5
41:8,11 48:6 49:11 human 28:20 10:12 12:12 51:10,24
43:5,12 government's 32:22 44:15,20 16:13 interpleaders
48:15 6:17 26:4 48:4 independent 32:15
50:9,13 governs 21:5 hundreds 44:11 49:18 intervene 11:5,8
55:22 great 19:19,23 hypothesized Indian 19:22 11:14,16,17
39:11 ground 18:4 21:8 42:5 13:8 15:8 32:23
35:19 25:23 50:19 intervention
47:7 53:24 identified 20:4 individually issue 4:7,19 7:4
28:5 guess 13:25 ignoring 43:25 individuals 8:14 28:18 29:23,24
37:22 guts 35:10 illegal 24:25 ineffectual 34:10 35:10
39:10 ill-gotten 21:22 37:15,16 43:17 44:5
44:18 H imagine 31:5 inequitable 46:22
52:3,10 hand 49:10 Immunities 21:5 25:24 26:4 issued 4:15 52:6
55:4 35:18 6:2 12:7,10,14 30:7 31:4 44:25 45:4
12:24 45:11,12 13:23 14:4,23 initiates 55:20 J
15:15 happened 13:10 15:17 19:18 injunction 26:20 J 1:10
23:7 26:20 20:12,13,19,25 instance 16:9 JERRY 1:7
39:15 happenings 36:6 27:18 38:19,20 insurance 51:13 join 52:16
42:3 happens 38:23 39:19 40:2,6 intact 19:5 joinder 52:14
45:21 hat 48:23 40:12,13 41:4 inter 49:23 joint 29:22
47:14,23 Hawaii 33:2 41:13 46:13,19 interest 7:7 13:2 Joseph 5:8
53:21 hear 3:3,21 50:21 52:3 15:3 17:11 judge 17:6 39:24
47:2 17:18 24:7 53:16,20 54:1 19:4 20:20 4:17,18 6:12
8:7,8 heart 34:10,14 11:20 12:3 22:1,13,18 9:20 10:2
19:17 heavy 31:24 17:9 23:25 23:6,8,13,25 14:21 15:7
21:17,19 held 4:14 11:25 36:8 37:9 24:11,13 51:10 16:5,7,18,19
22:6,19 30:23 36:25 imposed 26:17 51:18 53:3 18:3 20:4,14
50:24 impossible 54:2,22 55:5 21:19 23:22
hidden 19:3 14:13 interests 13:7 24:14 25:3
holding 16:20 impression 4:1 15:2 18:7 20:3 27:12,22 28:3
28:1 22:21 23:9 inadequate 20:5 22:19 28:8 30:19
32:13 Honor 4:25 5:19 14:18 23:5 28:9 31:14,16,18,19
9:1,11 17:9 inappropriate 51:12 53:23 31:20,25 36:2
18:7 19:7 46:3 53:24 55:13 36:4,24 37:22
36:10 33:10 37:18 including 27:4 international 37:23 38:8,8
40:15 45:22 27:23 32:15 23:14,20 44:17 39:7,10 40:9,9
42:21 53:1 inconsistency interplead 51:21 44:15 45:1,2
47:12,17 49:14,25 50:9 left 36:9 37:9 35:25 36:1,11 12:5
50:1,3,7 50:13 52:2,22 legal 22:3 36:16,22 37:3 means 40:2
51:23 53:15 55:21 legislative 20:16 37:25 38:4 46:16
55:3 56:1 legitimately 39:11,13,13 mention 23:15
44:2 51:12,19 52:4 mentioned 41:9
Karcher 49:12 liability 28:3,4 55:16,23 merits 14:1,3
5:10 12:9 limitation 53:23 M 49:21,22 50:3
54:15 20:22 21:7 limitations making 7:7 38:3 50:22,25
44:8 43:6 March 1:13 15:11 16:1,2
4:8,23 40:12 45:15 litigants 46:7 4:13 6:4,11 7:1 31:3,5 35:23
6:9,14,22 Kneedler 1:20 litigating 18:23 7:8,13,14,16 35:25 36:1,11
8:5,6,13 2:5 19:10,11 litigation 6:11 9:6,17 10:4,5,8 36:16,22 37:3
9:7,18 19:15,24 20:1 6:16,20 7:22 10:9 11:22,25 37:24 38:4
11:3,16 21:4,10 22:9 8:21 9:22 11:9 17:11 18:8,16 39:10,12,13
13:12,17 22:16 23:4,24 13:6,18 15:9 22:21 24:15 51:9,12,19
15:14 24:8 25:1,4,19 15:10 18:12 27:3 30:3 33:5 52:4,8,20 55:5
17:5 26:1,19 27:6 22:23 32:22 33:7,9,15,19 55:6,16,22
18:1,14 27:14 28:11 48:24 51:16 33:24 42:21 million 47:19
19:8,15 knock 50:1 55:17 43:4,9,22 44:1 48:7,14
20:22 know 16:12 little 12:23 44:7 54:6,9 millions 44:11
22:9,24 44:13 live 9:18 51:1,2 Marcoses 23:10 mind 11:20
24:4 knowledge logically 5:19 32:19 39:9 minute 34:25
24:25 25:7 long 4:9 8:4 42:3 44:22 minutes 52:23
27:5,7 known 41:9 41:10 48:13 misappropria...
29:3 longer 49:24 Marcos's 6:20 6:5 8:1
L 51:1 MARIANO 1:9 missed 34:25
label 32:6 look 18:13 45:25 Marino 49:13 mistake 13:10
31:23 lapse 26:18 50:15 Massachusetts misunderstand
33:1,18 large 22:8 looking 14:22 50:16,17,23 47:16
35:8 late 37:4 50:13 matter 1:14 3:25 misunderstood
36:21,23 law 6:7 10:12 looks 15:21 9:3 11:18 47:9
11:4,12 22:13 lose 40:13 53:23 12:20 14:8,13 modified 32:3
39:6 22:25 23:2 lost 50:3 16:9 51:14 moment 47:8
40:1,19 31:9 32:1 44:1 lot 20:23 51:4 52:6 54:4 56:4 Monday 1:13
44:17 49:16 lower 33:14 matters 4:6 money 9:10
51:5 55:11 40:21,25 42:23 Mattis 51:6 27:12 29:25
lawsuit 33:8 47:1,4 50:6,20 mean 15:10 30:7,17 31:4
39:16,17,18 50:20 21:12 40:2 31:20 34:12
46:4 40:7 Lynch 14:17 45:9,14,19 35:19,24 37:7
47:5,6 leaders 54:17 15:11 16:1,2 46:12 47:22,23 37:13,25 39:11
48:2,5 learned 36:19 16:13,19 31:1 48:15,21 39:16,20 45:24
49:5 led 6:11 22:6 31:3,5 35:23 meaning 10:2 52:19
6:25 7:2,11 54:18 27:11 30:2,8 49:3,11
occurred 36:13 parameters 47:3 11:13,19 22:20,23 23:12
occurring 29:16 33:21 37:9 51:8 27:2,3 28:7,21
29:5 office 21:22 40:7 personal 27:18 28:23,24 29:10
officer 27:22 participants personally 30:3 29:12,13,25
54:22 27:17 participate 18:5 persuaded 30:24 31:2,3
Okay 29:11,17 17:4,7 petition 4:11 34:19 35:3
45:11 oldest 42:13 51:5,16 1:19,23 2:4,7 39:15 40:10
40:11 54:1 parties 24:10 34:9 44:25 45:2,14
34:23 opportunity 52:15 52:25 48:16 49:7,15
40:10 24:6 40:13 party 12:11 13:8 Philadelphia 49:18 50:18
50:11 opposed 17:21 13:13,20,21 1:24 52:7,11 54:13
37:2,11 opposite 17:6 21:2 22:3 4:5,15 6:6,10 pick 40:3
43:8 oral 1:14 2:2 3:7 23:16 25:23 6:19 8:7,8 9:21 picked 48:22
55:11 19:11 28:13 38:21 43:20 10:12,20,21 picture 15:22
53:15 ousted 41:25 passed 23:17 21:21 22:11,12 3:5
43:18 24:13 35:22 PCGG 49:11 34:11,23 35:19 pleadings 46:10
55:5 pending 4:4,8 35:20 36:9 please 3:10
36:10,15 prevents 37:25 properly 36:25 quite 36:5 reflects 23:25
49:20 38:2 property 3:12 quote 32:25 refused 36:12,22
12:16,21 principal 15:3 22:15 24:11,13 refusing 25:22
22:10 principle 9:3 29:20 37:1 R regard 31:9
29:7 42:11 51:7 proposition R 3:1 49:10 51:24
36:17 prior 22:20 31:13 raise 28:18 49:8 regime 7:1 9:5,8
47:6 37:12,12 prosecution 49:17 regimes 8:1
52:13,19 private 16:16 38:25 raised 25:18 related 4:12
17:1,7,9 18:1 prospect 42:8 44:8 48:13 5:21 12:19
privity 18:9,14 27:20 ran 21:2 relating 4:16
problem 40:5 47:4 real 10:2 relief 12:20,23
9:24 19:20 20:18 purchaser 24:24 41:21 51:9 31:16,24 32:9
15:25 27:11 34:18 25:6 52:8 34:20 35:1,8
28:2 42:7 50:10 purpose 16:14 real-world 27:9 42:1,12 51:24
48:6 proceeded 36:20 purposeful 46:8 reason 21:13 remainder 19:6
proceeding 4:4 pursuant 23:19 reasons 8:4 remedy 14:18
27:9 18:3,5 23:19 recapture 14:9 25:13 36:13
39:22 41:20 8:6,19 9:12 recognized 13:5 26:6
52:15 55:12,14 15:18 17:17,18 44:13 22:7 25:10
26:21 27:1 33:3 36:22 36:20 reply 32:20,21
4:3,13 5:8 52:9 43:14 44:8 recovery 22:14 37:24
9:6 process 20:25 47:7,8 54:5,7 redo 38:7,11 representation
42:3 42:5 46:5 52:22 56:1 satisfy 8:13 9:20 shame 32:13
10:1 50:14 rooted 20:14 27:16 30:5,11 34:21 35:2,4
Respondent 2:3,11 3:6,7,9 35:8 36:2 37:7
Respondents 5:18 6:9,13,22 52:6 37:11,12,13
5:1 1:25 2:9 11:5 7:22 8:10,16 says 9:14 16:12 shares 26:13,13
6:3,6,8 21:18 28:5,7,9 8:25 9:11,25 19:25 32:25 37:24
28:14 54:8,11 10:19 11:11,18 38:14 39:13 shield 52:4
9:13,16 response 25:21 12:17 13:16,19 41:14 44:1 ships 7:17
34:15 14:2 15:20 46:14 52:10 shocking 48:16
14:12 rests 46:13 16:21 17:3,8 SCALIA 7:20 shopping 39:24
15:8 result 39:4 17:16 18:6,18 18:24 46:11 39:25
retreat 12:4 19:2,9,25 26:6 Scalia's 8:6 side 16:11
16:3,22 returned 10:3 52:23,24 53:1 scratch 47:15 significant 41:6
17:24 26:12,14 54:17 53:18 56:2 se 14:24 35:5 51:12,17
43:24 reverse 24:16 rule 11:2 12:5 40:16 46:24 simply 11:1
50:17 review 40:24 12:18 13:3,22 49:23 20:24 26:18
re-examine 45:6 14:22,24 15:1 second 5:24 35:9 44:23
right 6:13 11:5,7 15:3 16:14 38:11 54:5 48:14
11:17,18,25 20:12,18,19 secured 25:3,5 single 15:4
12:1 14:3 32:20,24 39:5 see 34:1 45:10 55:12
5:24 6:24 29:8 30:15 46:24 50:5,6 seek 11:14,16 sir 30:14
10:16 35:5,6 38:17 53:7,10 55:16 16:3,23 sit 49:6
33:12 38:22 39:18 ruled 55:2 seeking 16:4 situation 12:6
50:14 48:1,24 49:7 15:23,24 16:22 27:24 38:9 42:5,7
51:2 19:5 28:20 26:4 Solicitor 1:20
rigid 32:3 4:4,20 5:3,5 serve 21:9 somewhat 52:19
2:8 28:13 11:15 14:11 serves 28:9 sort 4:6 7:17
46:23 13:12,17,25 17:19,23 32:24 set 5:25 18:10 25:21
16:15,24 17:5 54:25 55:19 sets 5:21 42:18
22:20 28:10 42:4 satisfied 27:22 settlements 10:5 sounds 40:6
28:4 44:24 49:5,14 28:8 10:23 48:16
10:14 standing 24:21 sua 48:10,12 superior 24:22 T 2:1,1
27:5 25:5 51:2 subject 11:24 support 8:21 take 10:15 37:21
29:3,11 stands 31:13 22:25 52:9 9:22 32:17 47:23 48:6
30:21 start 47:15 subjected 55:23 supported 6:11 52:12
35:8 started 39:22 submission 5:23 22:2 taken 8:4 23:2
37:14,19 state 7:5 8:1 6:4 7:15 9:12 supporting 1:22 35:20
48:5,10 19:22 20:9 9:14,16 2:7 19:14 takes 36:24
12:7,7,10 stated 21:17 50:13 51:22 suppose 20:22 talking 22:23
54:19 submitted 44:14 20:23 tell 5:4 33:3
States 1:1,15,22 56:2,4 supposed 41:25 TEMPORARY
19:17 2:6 7:2,6,12 substantial 5:5 supposing 20:23 1:8
20:6,10 8:15,21 9:5 8:11 10:7 53:3 supreme 1:1,15 tension 9:23
15:16 16:4,16 54:2 4:15 28:25 27:13
17:18 18:13 substantially 49:3 terms 27:9
39:19 19:12,21,22 13:7 sure 26:20 terrible 45:21
41:4,13 20:7,9,9,15,15 substantive 53:9 surrender 41:25 terribly 30:16
42:15 22:1,2 23:16 successfully 51:25 30:18 46:17
23:18 24:17,23 50:1 surrendering Thank 3:9 19:8
52:3 26:3 27:12,15 sue 16:13 37:5 42:14 54:14 28:10 52:22
27:16,21,23,24 46:14 48:21 surrogate 39:2 53:1 56:1
28:20 29:1 55:16 Swift 1:24 2:8 theories 12:12
36:18 37:22 27:17,18,19 29:8,15,18 they'd 39:7
54:24 55:8 sues 15:11,16 31:8 32:8 31:25 32:4,5
21:21 statute 21:21 33:24 43:22 35:4,12 36:8 51:9
46:5 23:17 24:9 suggest 18:18 37:8,18 38:2 things 32:2,2
49:2 53:23 18:15 40:16,23 41:6,18 42:10 7:24 8:10,20
7:3 statutory 32:9 suggestion 43:18 44:4 10:1,12,23,24
27:4 stay 24:1 25:14 14:14 18:19 45:3,18,22 11:1,20 12:3
25:15 26:22 37:19 46:8,22 47:17 12:17 13:4
15:11 stolen 3:13,17 19:18,20 20:18 4:14 22:7 25:19 26:2,5
4:2 33:13 26:24 32:3 26:11,12,21 28:1 31:6,8
strong 21:23 summary 8:24 36:14 54:24 44:18,21 46:2
49:9 10:4 12:18 20:8,9,15 waive 38:20 worry 16:12
14:23 17:20,24 21:25 22:2 waived 39:19 41:15
27:15 33:14 34:8,11 24:23 26:3 want 15:2 26:21 worth 55:15
30:21 35:12,13 40:21 27:11,15,16,21 26:22 32:17,18 wouldn't 24:23
37:20 two-step 50:18 27:23,24 28:20 36:5 37:7 38:5 24:24 34:20
47:7,10 types 35:13 29:1 31:10,17 38:15 39:4 wrong 31:6
typically 24:20 32:14 36:18 46:2 38:15
U 47:13 48:3 wants 18:16 23:7 25:7
19:7 unclear 11:4 35:21 way 5:10,11
23:7 uncollectible unnecessary 15:6 17:22 Y
27:10 6:18 53:11 27:21 32:21 year 36:9,13,19
37:16,17 underlying unraveling 8:2 34:5,16 50:12 36:22 38:18
39:10 33:11 42:11 unsecured 21:19 53:24 55:12 years 5:15 32:1
43:7 undermine 18:2 24:14,19 ways 34:8,11 42:17 46:10
22:14 23:1 45:23 40:22 51:18
35:17 $
49:16 $10 47:21
36:14 U.S 12:25 24:18 weight 19:19,24
$8 48:7
31:7,8 32:7 55:8 went 30:1 36:16 0
15:22 46:19 value 25:7 42:2 44:14 11:04 56:3
19:20 unfairness versus 50:15 50:19,19 1655 42:13
24:7,16 45:16,21 46:12 vetoed 10:11,15 we've 20:4 37:23 17 1:13
49:19 46:13 victims 7:1 44:18 49:19 19 2:7 11:2 12:5
21:21 33:5
23:8
25:8 26:8,9
26:17
26:9
4:12
26:11
26:12
26:14 36:9
38:18
4:15
4:20,23
1:13 4:24
41:9
23:17
2:9 42:12
2:4
42:17
19:21
2:12
