IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JOHN R. SAND & GRAVEL :
COMPANY, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1164
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 6, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JEFFREY K. HAYNES, ESQ., Bloomfield Hills, Michigan.; on
behalf of the Petitioner.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JEFFREY K. HAYNES, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY K. HAYNES, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 49
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in Case 06-1164, John R. Sand & Gravel
Company v. the United States.
Mr. Haynes.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY K. HAYNES
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. HAYNES: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
The plain English reading of Section 2501 of
Title 28, its phrasing compared to the jurisdictional
grants to the Court of Federal Claims, the
contemporaneous legal history of its predecessor, and
this Court's decisions in Irwin and Franconia Associates
compel the conclusion that Section 2501 does not limit
subject matter jurisdiction and should be applied to the
government as an ordinary waivable affirmative defense.
The plain text of Section 2501, which reads
"Every claim of which the United States Court of Federal
Claims has jurisdiction shall be barred unless the
petition thereon is filed within 6 years" after it first
accrues, assumes subject matter jurisdiction, and if it
assumes subject matter jurisdiction it cannot logically
limit subject matter jurisdiction. The statute is
phrased in such a way that the jurisdictional inquiry
precedes the inquiry as to timeliness.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did the prior statutes have
a different structure?
MR. HAYNES: The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We've held this thing is
jurisdictional for a long time. Did the prior statutes
under which we made those holdings have a different
structure?
MR. HAYNES: The 1863 statute prior to the
Tucker Act amendment to the statute had approximately
the same structure, Your Honor, yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are you asking us
to, or you think we have to, to rule in your favor
overrule our decisions in Kendall and Soriano?
MR. HAYNES: Your Honor, we believe that
this Court's decision in Irwin effectively overruled
Soriano. Irwin held that the Title 7 statute of
limitations was subject to equitable tolling, and in
Irwin, the Court had to choose between two lines of
cases, Soriano and Bowen v. City of New York. And it
chose the Bowen line of cases. And so if it repudiated
Soriano -- Soriano of course held that Section 2501 is
jurisdictional.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, Irwin
involved Title 7 and not this 2501. And we hadn't
addressed Title 7 before, but we have addressed 2501
before.
MR. HAYNES: That's correct. But certainly
in Irwin, the Court uses 2501 as an example of a statute
that can be equitably tolled and in --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, in, in the
more recent case of Kontrick -- I'm looking at footnote
8 of that opinion -- it used 2401 as an example of the
jurisdictional bar and 2401 has pretty much the same
language as 2501.
MR. HAYNES: Yes, Section 2401 in the
Federal Tort Claims Act has similar language.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think in Contracts it
was used as an example of a so-called built-in statute
of limitations, one that is thought to bar the right as
well as the remedy.
MR. HAYNES: Well, certainly one could look
at the statute of limitations in 2401 that is within the
section that waives sovereign immunity and say that it
as part of the waiver constitutes a limit on subject
matter jurisdiction. However, Section 2501 standing
alone in the procedural chapter concerning the Court of
Federal Claims is not attached to any particular waiver
contained in chapter 91, which contains the
jurisdictional grants to the Court of Federal Claims.
So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, just, just to
get all the cases out on the table, our more recent
decision in Bowles suggested that there may be a
difference between statutory and rule limitations and
also suggested that the prior history of the
interpretation of a provision was highly relevant.
MR. HAYNES: Yes, Bowles does say that, but
Bowles can be distinguished, I believe, in several ways.
First, Bowles dealt with the notice of claim, notice of
appeal and transferring the jurisdiction from the
district court to the court of appeals. That's not at
issue here because in the statute of limitations, of
course, we aren't dealing with transferring
jurisdiction, we're dealing with the initiation, the
initiation of the claim and which court that claim
belongs in, not transferring jurisdiction from one to
another.
Second, Bowles -- Bowles was very careful in
not mentioning statutes of limitations in, in the
majority opinion. It doesn't mention it at all and I
think that is, that is purposeful. Third --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It said determining when
and under what conditions Federal courts can hear cases
falls within the court's adjudicatory authority -- or
that are within the adjudicatory authority are
jurisdictional, when and under what conditions Federal
courts hear cases. That would be very broad, but it did
say that.
Could not interfere with the plain-text
reading of 2501 once you assume --
JUSTICE ALITO: What kind of language would
we have to find in 2501 in order to conclude that it's
jurisdictional? Would it be necessary for the statute
to say that there is no jurisdiction unless the -- the
claim is filed within a certain period of time?
MR. HAYNES: I think if Congress said that
-- if Congress specifically said that this section, this
statute of limitations, is jurisdictional, that would
end the issue. And as this case -- as this Court said
in the Arbaugh case, if Congress plainly establishes a
statute as jurisdictional, then the court's --
JUSTICE ALITO: Is that necessary? Is there
anything short of that that would be sufficient?
MR. HAYNES: If Section -- if the language
in Section 2501 were attached to the waiver of sovereign
immunity in 1491(a)(1) for this case, that might allow
the Court to find that it's jurisdictional and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then there would be a
built-in limitation, and usually that's not considered
jurisdictional. It would be under the heading of
failure to state a claim; that is, your claim has been
extinguished, so you have no claim to state, as opposed
to the ordinary operation of the statute of limitations
which bars only the remedy, not the right.
MR. HAYNES: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. But
certainly the example -- as the Chief Justice's example
suggested, in 2401, the Federal Tort Claims Act, and
also the statute that's found in the Quiet Title Act
that this Court interpreted in the Block case, Block v.
North Dakota, those statutes of limitations are attached
to the jurisdictional grant in some closer fashion than
2501 is, and so they would more likely to be read to be
a limit on jurisdiction. I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me all of those
factors are a lot more subtle than the mere fact that we
have said that this is jurisdictional for years and
years, it and its predecessor. Why -- why isn't that at
least as persuasive as the -- as the fragile attachments
you're -- you're discussing here or even as the -- as
the, you know, the -- even if the statute said that it's
jurisdictional, we've said in our opinions that to say
it's jurisdictional doesn't mean that it's
jurisdictional necessarily. So I suppose we could say
the same about the statute, couldn't we?
MR. HAYNES: Justice Scalia, I believe that
the Irwin case answers that question because Irwin
certainly undercut Soriano and Soriano relied on the
Kendall-Finn line of cases. Irwin made a choice, and it
chose to say that the statute of limitations in Title 7
and generally other statutes of limitation are presumed
to be equitably tollable, and if they are equitably
tollable they cannot be jurisdictional. 2501 was used
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: It didn't say that. You're
saying that.
MR. HAYNES: Yes, we are saying that. We
think that there is a logic --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Bowles said that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Bowles said if it's
equitably tolled, it's not jurisdictional. If it -- a
provision that is jurisdictional cannot be equitably
tolled.
MR. HAYNES: That's correct. And if it --
if the statute can be equitably tolled, it's not
jurisdictional, and therefore it can be waived and --
and it does not have to be raised sua sponte by the
court, as was done here by the Federal Circuit.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: One member of the court
did think that Irvin -- Irwin overruled Soriano, but
only one member.
MR. HAYNES: Yes, but I think a -- a fair
reading of Irwin, combined with this Court's decision in
Franconia Associates, which construed Section 2501 to
say that it doesn't have a special accrual rule for the
government and that this Court -- or that courts should
apply statutes of limitations against the government as
against private parties --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a pretty risky
business, though, to rely on a dissent in determining
whether a majority overruled the prior precedent or not,
isn't it?
MR. HAYNES: It would be, Your Honor. I'm
not sure which case you're referring to.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Irwin. I thought
that was the one Justice Ginsburg posed to you --
MR. HAYNES: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- where Justice
White in dissent said that Irwin overruled Soriano. But
the majority certainly didn't say that.
MR. HAYNES: No, but -- it did not say that
specifically, but I think if you look at Irwin in the
totality, there is -- I don't think there is a way that
you could look at Irwin and say that it did not overrule
Soriano. At a minimum -- at a minimum, it took out the
theoretical underpinnings for the Soriano line of cases.
Because --
JUSTICE BREYER: How do you suggest we write
the opinion? If you were writing it and then a dissent,
say, or someone or we read in the briefs that here is an
absolute holding of the Supreme Court right on point,
totally clear, says just exactly what the government
says here, and it was codified in 1948, and now we say
the reason, despite that, you win is?
MR. HAYNES: The reason is because, unless
the Congress clearly establishes a statute of
limitations as jurisdictional, unless there is a clear
statement, then statutes of limitations against the
government are to be read --
JUSTICE BREYER: And if somebody says, well,
the Court couldn't have been clearer as to what the
statute meant, and Congress reenacted it in codifying
it. So what do you want?
MR. HAYNES: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, what could be
clearer? Are they supposed to actually -- in the
recodification in 19 -- or is it that the recodification
changed things or what?
MR. HAYNES: No, Justice Breyer, I don't
think the recodification changed the substance of the
statute. However, certainly that argument that
Congress's recodification of this Court's ruling in the
Kendall-Finn line of cases cuts both ways because
following Irwin, issued in -- when the opinion was
issued in 1990, the Congress has had 17 years to look at
that and say no, Section 2501 should not be equitably
tolled. And Congress certainly could say that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it hasn't
recodified 2501 in the past 17 years, has it?
MR. HAYNES: That's correct, Mr. Chief
Justice. However, I think the recodification argument
really -- really is not a telling argument because the
Kendall-Finn line of cases, under Irwin at least, were
wrongly decided when they were decided. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think we do
have to overrule Kendall and Soriano?
MR. HAYNES: I think in order to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or at least say that
we already did in Irwin?
MR. HAYNES: Yes, Your Honor. We believe
that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it just Irwin or a
whole line of cases? There was a time when the
jurisdictional label was used rather frequently. There
is a more recent case that says "jurisdiction" is a word
of many meanings, too many meanings. And I think the
Court has been trying to cut down on the too many
meanings.
MR. HAYNES: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, I agree,
and those cases start with the Kontrick v. Ryan case and
continue through -- and even in the Bowles case, that's
-- that's a species of appellate jurisdiction which --
JUSTICE BREYER: But even all those cases
which you're going back to, what you're talking about, I
think, in those cases is general statements in the case.
The cases themselves, except possibly for that
Franconia, which has a different problem because it was
about accrual, the cases themselves don't involve this
statute. It's simply general statements. I thought,
and I'd like your response, that in this Court's opinion
as in statutes, as in life. When people make general
statements, they don't mean every possible situation in
the universe; rather, there are always circumstances to
which the statement doesn't apply. And so why don't we
just read those statements as incorporating a prior
explicit holding of the Court as inapplicable to that
prior explicit holding? I mean, that's what you'd
normally do with a sentence like that, isn't it?
MR. HAYNES: Perhaps, Justice Breyer. I
think that the rule that we are proposing here is that
once Congress has waived sovereign immunity, absent a
clear statement of Congress to the contrary, a statute
of limitations is not -- does not limit subject matter
jurisdiction. So I think the Court has to look at the
plain language of Section 2501, compared to the
jurisdictional grant here in 1491(a)(1).
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was the rule or the
presumption that you just quoted in effect when Congress
last revised the statute?
MR. HAYNES: No, Justice Kennedy. I think
the presumption was -- was established certainly in
Irwin, which said: We want to cut through these ad hoc
decisions that we have been going through on this
question of equitable tolling. We want to -- we want to
create a general rule that statutes of limitations
generally are presumed to be equitably tolled.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you can -- was
Congress aware of that general rule when it last revised
the statute?
MR. HAYNES: I don't see how that could
happen, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't, either, and
that's why, when you say, well, it's a general rule,
well, your argument tends to lose force because of the
fact that Congress acts against the background of what
this Court has stated.
MR. HAYNES: That may be. However, I don't
think that that general codification or -- or, rather,
the rule of statutory construction that says that the
Congress's codification of the law will then incorporate
this Court's prior decisions, I don't think that can
trump the plain language reading of the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Haynes, isn't it less
radical and, indeed, more in accord with the language of
Irwin to -- to say that what Irwin overruled was not the
whole principle that this statute of limitation is -- is
-- and others that relate to sovereign immunity, is
jurisdictional, but rather the much more limited rule
that -- that statutes of limitations which are
jurisdictional are not subject to equitable tolling?
That's a much more limited point, and -- and
the language of Irwin is a waiver of sovereign immunity
must be unequivocally expressed once Congress has made
such a -- once Congress has made such a waiver, we think
that making the rule of equitable tolling applicable to
suits against the government in the same way that it is
applicable to private suits amounts to little, if any --
little, if any -- broadening of the congressional
waiver.
I don't think one can say that if you expand
the principle to cover the whole -- the whole matter of
whether it's jurisdiction. So why not read Irwin more
moderately to -- to -- if we have to overrule one of two
things, the whole doctrine of the jurisdictional nature
of statutes of limitations in sovereign immunity cases
and the other is simply, oh, yes, there is sovereign
immunity, but can there be equitable tolling, why
shouldn't we adopt the more limited one?
MR. HAYNES: Well, I think, Justice Scalia,
that this Court can adopt a more limited ruling based
upon the rule that I've advanced, and that is if
Congress specifically says that a statute of limitations
shall count as jurisdictional.
And the example I would give, Justice
Scalia, is in the Indian Tucker Act, which is found on
page 9A of the appendix to the blue brief. The Indian
Tucker Act, Section 1505 -- excuse me -- section 1505,
says that claims that accrue to Indians after August 13,
1946, go to the Court of Federal Claims. The Court of
Federal Claims has jurisdiction over those claims.
That is -- and before that date, such Indian
claims went to the Indian Claims Commission. So in 1505
Congress said before a date certain a particular forum
had jurisdiction; and after a date certain another forum
has jurisdiction. That's -- that's a jurisdictional
kind of date that I think is -- is appropriate to look
at here, because once -- once you put an -- you put
accrual language in a statute of limitations, that by
its nature suggests that there may be equitable tolling
or some kind of tolling if you're talking about a claim
accruing, because there may be estoppel, there may be
waivers, there may be discovery issues. So the text of
the statute itself suggests that there is a form of
tolling allowed in the statute.
And if Congress wanted to say that this
statute of limitations goes to the subject matter
jurisdiction of the court, it very well could have said
that. It didn't, however; and so I think Irwin fits
comfortably within the rule that we are suggesting.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's exactly
what I think we said in -- in Arbaugh; and that,
certainly, going forward from that point on, Congress
has more or less specified that it's jurisdictional, or
we're not going to read it that way. But I'm not sure
that was the rule in Irwin and I'm pretty sure it wasn't
the rule in Soriano and Kendall.
MR. HAYNES: Mr. Chief Justice, it certainly
was not the rule in Soriano and Kendall. But our
position is that in Kendall the Court ignored the
legislative history which said, this statute of
limitations that we are inserting into the 1863 Court of
Claims Act should be treated -- should be applied to the
government just as to private parties.
That's precisely the ruling in Franconia
Associates: That once sovereign immunity has been
waived, once -- once there is a waiver of sovereign
immunity, the government is treated like any other
defendant.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I know, but it
seems to me you're arguing that if Kendall came up
today, it would be decided differently, and maybe that's
right.
But the point is it came up 100 years ago
and it was decided, and the question is whether we
should overturn that decision.
MR. HAYNES: I understand. Again, I suggest
that Irwin erased the theoretical underpinnings of the
Kendall-Finn line of cases by saying that a statute
formerly -- which this Court formerly said was
jurisdictional can be subject to equitable tolling, and
if it is subject to equitable tolling it cannot be
jurisdictional because the hallmarks of "jurisdictional"
are strict construction, it can't be waived and
forfeited, and it has to be raised sua sponte. And so
if you take out one of those legs of the statute, I
don't see how it can be held to the jurisdictional.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It did say statutory time
limits -- this is Irwin -- applicable to lawsuits --
well, the sentence about the suits: The rule of
equitable tolling applicable to suits against the
government. It says the rule that was announced is
applicable to the government, the same as with respect
to private parties.
So it's hard to think of what territory
Irwin would cover if it doesn't -- because in all suits,
at least for money against the government, there has to
be a waiver of sovereign immunity.
MR. HAYNES: That's true, Justice Ginsburg.
And -- and Congress has specifically waived sovereign
immunity for the kind of claim involved in this case,
which is, of course, a takings claim.
Once the waiver is accomplished, the
government is treated like any other defendant. That's
certainly what Franconia Associates says, and I think it
is inescapable to say, to -- to conclude other than to
say that Irwin and Franconia have -- have eviscerated
the Kendall-Finn line of cases.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think your
argument is more strongly supported by Irwin than
Franconia. Franconia simply involved an accrual rule,
which doesn't go to what the jurisdictional effect of
the bar on commencing a case is.
The government there was overreaching and
arguing for a special accrual rule, and the Court said
no. That's different than saying whether the actual
time for commencing litigation is jurisdictional or not.
MR. HAYNES: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice, that's
correct. That's what Franconia ruled. However,
Franconia reiterated the Irwin rule, which is that once
sovereign immunity is waived the statute of limitations
applies to the government.
The government in Franconia, as you say, was
pressing a very novel interpretation of the
first-accrued language, and the Court said the
government doesn't get any advantage from that just
because it's the government.
So just because the -- the government is the
defendant doesn't mean that it has that special
advantage once sovereign immunity is waived, as it has
been here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even if -- even if you're
right, couldn't the Federal Circuit say: Well, that's
all very interesting but Day v. McDonough told us that
if we want to raise it on our own -- we don't have to if
it's not jurisdictional; but if we want to, we can.
MR. HAYNES: Justice Ginsburg, I think Day
v. McDonough does not help the government here. Day v.
McDonough said that, yes, in the habeas situation the
district court might raise sua sponte the timeliness of
the claim. What the Court was -- the majority was clear
on this, and the three-member dissent was also crystal
clear on this: That if the government waives the
statute of limitations, the Court would not have -- it
would be an abuse of discretion for the Court to
override that waiver.
So, Day v. McDonough actually helps our
position. Because not only was there a waiver here as
-- but there was, for lack of a better word, a super
waiver, because the government, having raised the
statute of limitations in its pleadings, having moved to
dismiss on the basis of the statute of limitations, then
in special briefing asked by the trial judge here agreed
that the claim was filed timely and conceded that in the
Federal Circuit. They not only waived it, they agreed
that the claim was filed timely.
So, Day v. McDonough, I think, helps our
position and not the government's position. And that
was made emphatically clear by at least eight members of
this Court in Day v. McDonough, the majority and the
three-member dissent.
One other point I'd like to make, and that
is that if this Court holds that the statute of -- that
2501 is jurisdictional, then the judges in the Court of
Federal Claims for every case filed in front of them on
their general jurisdiction docket have to -- will have
to scrutinize the allegations in every complaint to
determine if the complaint is -- has been timely filed.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that -- that assumes
that the government has waived in every case. If it
hasn't waived, I have to do it anyway.
MR. HAYNES: That's correct, Justice
Kennedy. However --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can usually count on
the government to file the canned sovereign immunity
brief.
(Laughter.)
MR. HAYNES: I think that's correct, Justice
Scalia. You can count on the government to file a
canned affirmative defense to the statute of
limitations, too.
But that's true, Justice Kennedy, if the
government has, has waived it then the court doesn't
have to, wouldn't have to do that. If they -- excuse
me, if they raise it, the government doesn't have to --
I'm sorry. If the government raises --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If they, if they raise the
defense --
MR. HAYNES: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- then you're going to
have to determine it anyway, subject to clearly
erroneous findings of fact, as to when the person
entered the property and so forth.
MR. HAYNES: That's correct.
But even if, even if the government were to
agree that the claim was timely filed, the judges would
have to consider it sua sponte in every case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that's
like saying in every diversity case, theoretically, the
court has to scrutinize whether someone who alleges they
are a citizen of Pennsylvania really is. And that's
just not the way it really happens. The question
usually, if not raised by the party, comes up under some
other situation, such as in this case the amicus raised
it.
MR. HAYNES: That's correct. But even if
it's not raised, we think that if the statute is held
jurisdictional, then the courts have to address it sua
sponte.
Unless the Court has further questions, I
reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Haynes.
Mr. Stewart.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In a consistent line of decisions beginning
in 1883, this Court has repeatedly construed the 6-year
filing requirement contained in Section 2501 and its
predecessors as a nonwaivable jurisdictional limit on
the Court of Claim's authority to enter money judgments
against the United States. Congress has recodified the
statute on various occasions and has modified its
language in minor respects. But it has made no change
that could call into question --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Stewart, can I ask you
this question: Do you think the defense of the
equitable tolling would be available under this statute?
MR. STEWART: We don't, Your Honor. In
fact, the Court has held both in Kendall and in Soriano
that equitable tolling is not available.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You don't think Irwin even
changed the equitable tolling rule?
MR. STEWART: We don't. Irwin read in the
way we would read it, established that at least with
respect to statutes that provided for private suits
against both governmental and private defendants, and
perhaps with respect to suits against the government
generally, that there is a presumption of equitable
tolling. But the Court in Irwin recognized that that
presumption could be rebutted. And in both Kendall and
Soriano, the Court had relied on, inter alia, the fact
that the statute listed specific instances in which the
6-year period could be tolled as evidence that there was
no general authority to toll the statutory time limit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that when you're
beyond the seas or something?
MR. STEWART: Beyond the seas or subject to
a legal disability. The original 1863 version of the
statute specified particular disabilities such as
infancy, et cetera.
JUSTICE STEVENS: What do you do with
Justice Rehnquist's sentence: "We think this case
affords us an opportunity to adopt a more general rule
to govern the applicability of equitable tolling suits
against the government"? Is there an implied exception
for Soriano there?
MR. STEWART: I think there are two bases on
which we would distinguish that language. The first is
by its terms Chief Justice Rehnquist's sentence was
addressed to equitable tolling, not to waivibility. And
it's true that the Court in Bowles has linked the two,
but it doesn't appear that the Court in Irwin made that
equation. That is, in the Irwin opinion the Court
recited the fact that both the district court and the
court of appeals had ordered the case dismissed for lack
of jurisdiction, because the filing requirement had not
been met. And the Court said, we think that the statute
is subject to --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand, I think I
understand what you're saying, but I thought that the
government's distinction of Soriano was that was the
general rule for equitable tolling, so it doesn't apply
here, which I think is certainly understandable. But
you're saying it wasn't even a general rule for
equitable tolling?
MR. STEWART: It was at least a general rule
for equitable tolling with respect to statutes like
Title 7 that authorize suit against both the government
and against private defendants. And there has been some
back and forth in the Court since then as to whether the
Irwin language extends more broadly. In Brockamp, the
Court suggested that some private analog is necessary
before the Irwin presumption applies. In Scarborough
versus Principi, the Court seemed to tilt in the
opposite direction.
But part of our point is, even if the Irwin
presumption of equitable tolling extends categorically
to all suits against the government, equitable tolling
is not the same thing as jurisdictionality or
waivibility. The Court in Bowles did link the two, but
in Irwin itself the Court recited the fact that the
lower courts had dismissed for lack of jurisdiction.
And then when the Court concluded that Irwin
had not satisfied the prerequisites for equitable
tolling, the Court simply said: Affirmed.
Now, if the Court had intended in Irwin to
establish not simply that equitable tolling was
potentially available, but that the time limit was not a
jurisdictional bar to begin with, it seems likely the
Court would at least have referred to the idea that the
dismissal should have been for failure --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You know, I don't --
it's -- we've found it difficult enough to figure out
which statutes are jurisdictional and which are not.
And now you want us to say, well, even if it's
jurisdictional, the consequences may be different for
jurisdiction and for equitable tolling and for
waivibility. I mean, it seems to me that's a very
difficult argument.
MR. STEWART: Well, the Court has said both
with respect to Section 2501 and its predecessors and
with respect to statutory time limits for suing the
government generally, that the terms of Congress's
consent to suit define the jurisdiction of the reviewing
court and a time limit for commencing suit is one of
those terms. And I would direct the Court's attention
in particular to United States v. Dalm, which is cited
in our brief on page 23. It was decided less than 9
months before Irwin was decided. And the opinion in
Dalm is suffused with references to the jurisdictional
character of the time limit for commencing suit against
the government.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you certainly would
be mixing categories terribly if you suggested that
something that goes to the court's authority to proceed
in the case can be waived if it's equitable to waive it.
I mean, those two notions are at odds with each other.
MR. STEWART: Obviously, the government was
on the other side in Irwin, so in a sense I'm not the
best person to defend the Court's reasoning. But as
between the reading of Irwin that would create this
anomaly, that there could potentially be a
jurisdictional limit that was nevertheless subject to
equitable tolling, and the argument on the other side
that Irwin sub silentio swept away numerous decisions of
this Court that had recited that the, that the terms of
the government's consent to suit are jurisdictional
limits and a time limit is one of those terms.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what would, what
would Irwin and Franconia that made statements -- when
it's a question of a time limit, they operate against
the government just like they operate against private
parties, to what kind of case would that apply? I mean,
it's been pointed out that 2501 covers a whole slew of
cases, not just takings cases.
MR. STEWART: Well, certainly the kind of
case that the Court was specifically dealing with in
Irwin itself, and it's not an uncommon type of case now,
is one in which Congress has passed a statute that
imposes obligations on private parties and then imposes
like obligations on the government. And the gestalt of
Title 7, once it was amended to add the Federal
Government as a potential defendant and to impose the
substantive obligations on the government, was that the
government was to be dealt with with respect to matters
of employment discrimination in the same way that a
private employer would be in like circumstances, and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose Franconia
would be a case where the Irwin logic not only would but
did apply.
MR. STEWART: Well, in Franconia, the Court
was dealing with a different question. It was what do
the words "first accrues" mean? And it held that the --
it essentially treated the phrase "first accrues" as a
term of art, as one that had appeared in prior statutes
governing suits against other defendants. And so it saw
no reason to believe that Congress intended those words
to mean anything different in Section 2501 than they
meant in other statutes of limitations.
And I guess the other point that I would
make both about Franconia and Irwin is, even if you read
Irwin at its broadest, even if you construe it to mean
that there is a presumption that time limits for suing
the government are nonjurisdictional as well as subject
to tolling, the Court in Irwin still made clear that the
presumption could be rebutted. The presumption is not a
limit on Congress's authority. It's simply an aid to
construction in situations where other tools of
interpretation don't produce a clear result. And here
we would say --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask this question,
Mr. Stewart. Supposing we didn't have any precedent at
all, just the whole -- this is the first time this issue
had arisen, and we have the plain language of this
statute. Would you not read this statute, without any
background, supporting your opponent?
MR. STEWART: We wouldn't read it to -- if
all we had was the text of the statute, we would not
read it to permit waiver. And I should explain why.
The statute is reproduced in pertinent part at page 2 of
the government's brief. And the statute provides "Every
claim of which the United States" -- "Every claim of
which the United States Court of Federal Claims has
jurisdiction shall be barred unless the petition thereon
is filed within 6 years after such claim first accrues."
And looking only at the text of the statute,
the language is categorical. It says every claim that
is filed more than 6 years after accrual shall be
barred. The statute by its terms makes no exception for
cases in which the government fails to raise --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Aren't statutes of
limitations generally more equivocal than that?
MR. STEWART: No. I think often statutes of
limitations are written like that. But my point is in
the end Petitioner's argument really is not a plain
language argument. Petitioner's argument --
JUSTICE STEVENS: When you read the plain
language, you left out the words, "of which the United
States Court of Claims has jurisdiction."
MR. STEWART: I can understand that if you
were looking only at the language of the statute, you
would say -- you might say this is not a jurisdictional
bar because it presumes jurisdiction.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
MR. STEWART: But with respect to the
substantive question presented, namely whether the
United States' failure to make the argument in a timely
way causes it to be waived, the statute doesn't support
Petitioner's position as to that. It is categorical.
It doesn't by its terms carve out an exception for cases
in which the United States fails to raise a --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about -- what about
the rules of the Court of Federal Claims? Rule 8(c)
states that the statute of limitations is an affirmative
defense. And that's in suits against the Government
because that's all the Court of Federal Claims deals
with. So to what would that Rule 8(c) apply?
MR. STEWART: Rule 8(c) says the following
affirmative defenses shall be pled in the responsive
proceeding, and it lists statute of limitations. I
think it could certainly -- it obviously couldn't
supersede the decisions of this Court or even of the
Federal Circuit --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But all those statutes of
limitations would be statutes of limitations operating
against the government.
MR. STEWART: I think the rule basically
tracks, although not precisely tracks, the language of
the -- the parallel Federal Rule of Civil Procedure, and
we would read it simply to mean to the extent this is an
affirmative defense, it should be pleaded initially. It
doesn't say that the defense is waived if not pleaded.
But to return to the point that I was making
earlier, in the end Petitioner's argument is not a plain
language argument. Petitioner's argument is that,
notwithstanding the absence on the face of the statute
of an exception for cases in which the United States
fails to plead the timeliness defense, this Court should
read Section 2501 against the backdrop of a large body
of law holding that statutes of limitations are
generally waivable, and should assume that Congress
intended to incorporate that understanding --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, that isn't -- I don't
think it's quite -- putting the argument as I understand
it, you would say let's look at Irwin, and we read it,
so it's in your mind. Now think of that set of statute
of limitations, the Federal ones, the Government ones,
that are either just as ambiguous as Irwin or even more
ambiguous. Think of that set.
Now, in Irwin the Court says in the absence
of special circumstances that whole set is going to be
interpreted as nonjurisdictional. That's what it says.
So you say, well, what Irwin didn't talk about is
suppose there's a member of that set where previously
the Court had held it was jurisdictional. It doesn't
tell us what to do. Shall we read it as an exception or
shall we not?
And so what they are saying is, don't read
it as an exception. There's no need to do so. Congress
probably never really thought about any of this stuff.
Read it, Irwin, as including that one, too.
So what do you think of that point, whether
it's theirs or not, leaving aside the argument about
whether this particular statute does or does not fall
within that set? Assume it does.
MR. STEWART: Well, I think -- I think this
essentially relates to the point that I was making that,
even if there is a presumption of nonjurisdictionality
announced in Irwin, it's rebuttable and the presumption
is simply an aid to construction.
JUSTICE BREYER: Absolutely right, and then
the question is does the simple fact that we previously
held to the contrary count as a rebuttal? Does Irwin
mean to -- see that's the same question I had before, so
what do you think about that?
MR. STEWART: In our view, yes, it does.
That is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because?
MR. STEWART: It's a little artificial to
talk about what language Congress might or should have
used in light of Irwin to make clear its intent that
this be treated as jurisdictional, when Congress in the
1948 Judicial Code chose to recodify essentially the
same language that had previously been construed to
impose a jurisdictional limit. And the point I was
making before about Petitioner's argument as to imputed
congressional intent -- in the end Petitioner's position
depends on the inference that because there was a body
of law out there saying that statutes of limitations are
ordinarily waivable, Congress should be assumed to have
intended to incorporate that body of law.
And our point is if you're trying to impute
Congress's intent it makes much more sense to assume
that Congress intended to recodify the same reading that
this Court had attached to this particular provision,
not that Congress intended to incorporate a meaning that
the Court had attached to other statutes of limitations
that the Court had specifically distinguished from this
one.
And it's worth emphasizing that the
decisions in Kendall and Finn and De Arnaud can't be
accused of the sort of loose or less than meticulous use
of jurisdictional language that this Court has recently
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you say that
Franconia did use loose language, because although it
dealt with accrual -- when does the claim accrue, and
not when is it cut off -- but it did say, it called 2501
specifically "an unexceptional statute of limitations."
MR. STEWART: It said that it was
unexceptional and it said that many other statutes of
limitations used this language, namely the phrase "first
accrues." But one of the other points that the Court in
Franconia attached significance to was the fact that the
Court of Claims had never given that phrase a broader
reading in Section 2501. That is, the Court cited that
as additional evidence that the phase had not been
understood in this particular statute to bear a meaning
other than it would have in other statutes of
limitations.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And if we looked at the
Court of Federal Claims decisions now, I think they're
spelled out in the opinion. They go both directions.
That is, some say 2501 is jurisdictional, some say it's
not.
MR. STEWART: I think the principal line of
authority in the Federal Circuit says it's
jurisdictional, but what can't be disputed is that this
Court has said over and over that it's jurisdictional,
and the Court has again not used those -- that term in
passing.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, because it said it in
a case -- the issue in the case was whether Franconia
was overruled -- I mean, Soriano was overruled. And
Justice White thought it was. He said so in so many
words. And it's interesting that Justice Rehnquist in
the majority didn't disagree with that. Rather, he
cited Justice White's dissent as part of his description
of why some statutes are different from others, then
comes to the points that we want to adopt a general rule
that applies to all statutes. So it seems to me that
the implicit -- in his opinion he did not disagree with
Justice White's characterization.
MR. STEWART: Well, I think it would be --
again, given the fact in particular that the Court in
Irwin didn't speak explicitly to the question of
jurisdictionality one way or the other, I think it is
not uncommon for a -- a dissenting opinion to make
assertions about the reach of a majority opinion, and
the majority opinion sometimes does and sometimes does
not respond to those.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the interesting part
about this is the discussion of the majority of this
case is part of its development of the fact that we've
got cases all over the lot and we want to adopt a clear
rule to apply across the board. So it's part of the
reasoning of the Court.
MR. STEWART: Well, I -- but I think at most
the Court in Irwin was not trying to adopt a clear rule
across the board; it was trying to adopt a presumption,
while recognizing that Congress could provide in
individual statutes for a rule different from the one
that the presumption would suggest. And again if --
Congress had already been told that the language it was
using would be treated as jurisdictional -- and the
Court in the Kendall line of cases had not simply used
the label jurisdictional; it had said statutes of
limitations governing suits against private parties can
be waived if they're not asserted in a timely fashion,
but the time limit for filing suit against the United
States in the Court of Claims is different. This is a
limit on the Court's authority and the Court is required
to notice it whether it's pleaded by the government or
not.
So I think Congress had been told that it
was already using language that would have the effect of
causing this to be jurisdictional and nonwaivable.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did Congress think that
Rule 8(c) has no range of application? And -- we have
two recent statements saying statutes of limitations
against the government are like statutes against private
parties. But if 2501, which covers all of the cases
over which the Court of Federal Claims has
jurisdiction -- if, if it's for jurisdictional, then I
don't know what cases there would be in which there's a
time limit in a suit against the government that isn't
jurisdictional.
MR. STEWART: I mean -- I think -- I think
you may well be correct, that is perhaps to the extent
the drafters of the rule were doing something other than
simply incorporating the existing language of the
comparable Federal Rule of Civil Procedure. If all they
were saying was if there's a statute of limitations out
there that would function as an affirmative defense in
our cases, in our court, we want it to be pleaded
immediately as it would be in a private civil action.
If that's what they're saying, you may well
be right that the class of cases to which that would
pertain is the null set or something very close to it.
JUSTICE ALITO: Doesn't Mr. Haynes have a
point when he suggested at the end of his argument that
questions about accrual involve much more complicated
factual questions than are usually involved in deciding
whether a court has jurisdiction? So imagine if this
case came up today and the government adhered to its
prior position -- I don't know whether it's still it's
position -- that there had not been a permanent taking
until 1998, would the court -- and none of the events
that happened before 1998 had been brought to the
court's attention -- would the court have to say to the
parties: Well, this is fine; we see that there was a
fence put up in 1998, but now you have to tell us
everything else that's happened on this site going back
10 years to see whether there -- whether the claim might
have accrued at some earlier point.
MR. STEWART: Well, I guess we'd have two or
three responses to that. The first is, at least before
judgment could be entered in favor of the plaintiff, the
court would ultimately have to determine not only that
there was -- had been a taking, but would have to
determine the date on which the taking occurred in order
to award compensation, if nothing else. So this seems
like the kind of question that would ultimately have to
be determined, at least before the plaintiff could be
successful.
The second thing, as was pointed out before,
at least in the majority of cases where there is a
viable limitations argument, the government is going to
plead it, and so asking the court to look beyond this --
JUSTICE ALITO: But what if you didn't think
it was -- it was a good argument. Would you have an
obligation to say, we think there was a permanent fence
put up in 1998 and we agree that there was a taking as
of that point, but we don't think it happened earlier,
but you need to know all of these additional facts?
Would you have an obligation to present that to the
court?
MR. STEWART: It would depend upon the
court's rules. That is, if the court required a
separate statement as to jurisdiction then probably the
advocate would include at least a thumbnail sketch of
the relevant facts. If it was -- if the rules of the
court were such that the advocate didn't have to address
jurisdiction unless he or she was actively contesting
it, then no.
But the -- I guess the more fundamental
point we would make is the speculation as to disruptive
results would carry a lot more force if the government
were asking for a rule that was different from what had
been done in the past. That is, even Petitioner would
concede that, for the great bulk of the country's
history, this rule was treated as jurisdictional, and
Petitioner's argument is simply that that line of
authority was effectively overruled in Irwin in 1990.
And so if in fact treating this limit as a
jurisdictional limit would have the effect of disrupting
litigation in the CFC, we would expect the Petitioner to
have actual evidence to that effect. If we were asking
for a different rule than had been enforced in the past,
then there would be more --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we do know the CFC is
at least confused because they have some cases going one
way and some cases going the other way. And from the
government's point of view, the government can be relied
on to raise the statute of limitations, I suppose, but
aren't there cases where the government would really
like to get the substantive issue settled? So it says,
well, the statute of limitations is arguable, but we'll
concede that the action was timely.
MR. STEWART: I think that's true even as to
cases involving barriers that everyone would concede are
jurisdictional. For instance, there are cases in which
a litigant sues us, and there is great doubt as to his
standing to sue, and it may be an issue that we think is
otherwise framed in an appropriate context, and the
government might feel that it would be to everyone's
benefit to get the issue resolved when -- one way or the
other. But one consequence of treating that as a
jurisdictional barrier is simply that the government
can't always have its way.
So I don't think -- I would think that you
are correct that there might be some instances in which
treatment of this limit as a jurisdictional bar would
not be in the government's interest. But that's not a
basis for holding it to be nonjurisdictional.
Certainly the majority of cases involving
both -- I think, involving both 2501 and other
provisions that impose time limits for suits against the
government, in which the courts have held that the
relevant limit is jurisdictional, typically the
situation arises where the government decides to make an
argument on appeal that it didn't make in the district
court. I think a case like this one, where the
government doesn't argue the point even on appeal and
the court of appeals nevertheless holds that the suit
was untimely, those are the rarity. But we certainly
agree that the logical implication of treating the time
limit as jurisdictional is that the Federal circuit did
the right thing here.
I'd like to say a couple of words about
Bowles. I think Bowles doesn't compel a ruling in the
government's favor, but it does support our position in
various respects. First, as the Chief Justice alluded
to earlier, Bowles emphasized that time limits for
filing notices of appeal had historically been treated
as jurisdictional limits, and the Court said that, given
the choice between calling into question some dicta in
our recent opinions and effectively overruling a century
worth of practice, we think the former option is the
only prudent course.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But, of course, Bowles --
I mean the Court did miss something. Everyone on the
Court did, and that is that the period to file your
notice of appeal was originally not in any statute. It
was in the rule, the FRAP rule. The opinions, both
sides, assumed that the statute came first, and the rule
was adopted to conform to the statute, but in fact it
was just the opposite. It was a rule, a Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure, which can't affect jurisdiction. We
know that. As Congress says rules of procedure don't
affect jurisdiction. So there was the rule, and then
the U.S. Judicial Conference said to Congress, when it
referred the rule to Congress, you might consider a
conforming amendment. And then the statute, after the
rule came into effect, conformed to the rule. So what
the Court, both sides, thought in Bowles -- we just had
it in reverse.
MR. STEWART: I agree that the Court's
opinions didn't note that fact, but I don't think that
fact would or should have affected the treatment of the
statute as jurisdictional. That is, once it was brought
to Congress's attention that there was a potential
conflict or tension between the language of the
jurisdictional statute and the language of the
corresponding Federal rule, Congress had the choice to
make as to which should govern, and if Congress had
wanted a different result from the one that was in the
Federal rule, it could have enacted different language.
I think it would not -- whatever we might privately
think is the level of attention that Congress --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, Congress didn't
think about it at all until the U.S. Judicial Conference
said do this --
MR. STEWART: But --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- and the U.S. Judicial
Conference wasn't thinking that thereby it became
jurisdictional.
MR. STEWART: But my point is that, once
this was brought to Congress's attention, Congress could
have chosen to stick with other language, in which case
I have no doubt that the corresponding rule would have
been amended to fit the statute. Again, whatever
level of attention we might privately think that
Congress devoted to this question, the fact is that
Congress acted as a body, passed a law, it was signed --
passed statutes in both houses. It was signed into law
by the President. And from that point forward, it was a
statutory rule and had to be treated as such. So I
agree that this aspect of the problem wasn't addressed
specifically by the opinions in Bowles, but I don't see
any basis --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was addressed
specifically. It was addressed that the rule -- that
the -- that all of this was statute driven. But the
rule before -- before there was a conforming statute,
you would say, well, then it wasn't jurisdictional,
right?
MR. STEWART: I think to treat it as a
conforming statute suggests that, in some way, Congress
was obligated to do what the advisors told it to do or
was obligated to conform Section 2107(a) to the terms of
the Federal rule, and that's not the case. Congress
could have -- once this matter was brought to its
attention, Congress could have enacted whatever statute
it wanted. It chose to enact a statute that tracked the
preexisting language of the rule, but from that time
forward, the notice of appeal deadline was grounded in
statute, and it was a statutory limit that applied to
Bowles's own notice of appeal. So I don't think there
is a basis for saying the case would or should have come
out differently if the Court had been aware of the
history of the statute's development.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: May I go back to the
answer you gave Justice Stevens when he asked you to
assume that there was no precedent, we're reading this
as an original matter. I thought your answer to him,
correct me if I'm wrong, was that, well, in any event
"shall be barred" means that it can't be waived anyway.
But statute -- I looked up other statutes of
limitations, and other statutes of limitations: "Shall
not be entertained," "may not be commenced," "may not be
brought."
MR. STEWART: My point is, if we were
reading the statute without reference to any precedent
addressing either 2501 itself or statutes of limitations
generally, kind of the pure myopic, literal reading of
the statute, without reference to the legal context,
would suggest that "every" means every, "shall be
barred" means shall be barred, and there is no exception
for cases in which the government fails to raise the
argument in a timely way. And my point is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: My response was all
statute of limitations say that and all statute of
limitations can be waived.
MR. STEWART: And my point is there is no
basis for Petitioner's argument that in inferring
Congress's intent the Court should look to part of the
broader legal context, namely: Decisions of this Court
and others that have dealt with the general treatment of
statutes of limitations, but should ignore the other
part of the legal context, namely: Decisions of this
Court that have said, squarely and unequivocally, this
particular time limit is different.
This particular time limit is nonwaivable
and jurisdictional even though most statutes of
limitations can be waived if they are not asserted in a
timely way.
JUSTICE STEVENS: One last question: We
disagreed on parts of the Irwin opinion, but I take it
you would agree with me that the government was
particularly well represented in that case, wouldn't
you?
(Laughter.)
MR. STEWART: The government could not have
been better represented, Your Honor.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It is hard to
understand how they could have lost the case.
(Laughter.)
MR. STEWART: I had the same reaction
reading the transcript.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Stewart.
Mr. Haynes, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY K. HAYNES
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. HAYNES: With respect, I suggest that
the government won the battle, but lost the war on
Irwin.
This Court over the last few decades has
attempted to bring some coherence to both the questions
of sovereign immunity and subject matter jurisdiction.
And I think that the way the Court has
framed the issues in Irwin to say that there is a
presumption that statutes of limitation are tollable
and, therefore, are not jurisdictional in our view,
tends to show that the Court wants a clear statement
from Congress.
The presumption language says Congress may
at any time say otherwise and make a statute of
limitations jurisdictional. Unless it does so, the
statute of limitations would not affect subject matter
jurisdiction.
My brother makes the argument that Brockamp
rebutted the Irwin presumption, but it's very important
to understand that the Brockamp decision did not speak
in jurisdictional terms. It spoke in a -- a mere matter
of statutory -- not "a mere matter" -- it spoke in terms
of statutory interpretation. It did not speak in
jurisdictional terms.
So Erwin, standing unassailed since that
time, has forced the courts to look at the plain
language of the statute, which is precisely what we
advocate this Court does. Unless the Court has further
questions, thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Haynes. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:02 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
50:25 adopt 16:10,12 23:7 47:17 arisen 31:3
37:19 appeal 6:12 arises 43:20 B
38:9,13,14 43:21,23 44:9 Arnaud 36:5 back 13:11
20:21 appear 26:6 asked 21:19 background
41:22 50:20 appeared 30:9 42:3,12 27:18 32:7
17:5 affirmative 3:18 applicability 48:20 31:13,18 47:17
31:17 22:21 32:18,23 25:23 assertions 38:3 48:3,3
40:6 33:10 39:23 applicable 15:22 Assistant 1:18 barrier 43:8
affords 25:22 application 39:8 10:6 18:7 bars 8:6
31:14 41:12 44:1 applies 20:13 33:20 34:19 basically 33:6
45:7 46:13 27:2 37:20 35:22 47:14 basis 21:18
16:17 alia 25:10 38:10 22:10 bear 36:22
18:4 ALITO 7:8,19 appropriate attached 5:24 beginning 24:10
alleges 23:16 4:11 attachments 24:7 49:17
ambiguous 34:2 argue 43:23 40:14 45:11,19 belongs 6:18
amendment 2:2,7 3:3,7 24:14 25:13 49:4
amicus 23:20 15:1 20:1 24:6 37:6 39:1 42:8 41:8
46:13,16 analog 27:1 31:24,25,25 available 24:21 Bloomfield 1:16
announced 19:8 32:11 33:13,14 24:24 27:17 blue 16:18
anomaly 29:1 35:15 40:5 aware 14:20 body 33:18
19:17 20:4 characterizati... Claim's 24:14 conclude 7:9
13:8 22:6,11 23:13 37:22 class 40:2 19:22
27:9 44:5 23:15,20 25:21 Chief 3:3,9 4:13 clear 11:9,14 concluded 27:12
45:5 26:9 28:20 4:25 5:7 6:3 14:4 21:7,9,25 conclusion 3:16
29:12,16,17 8:8 10:11,17 30:19,23 35:10 conditions 6:25
12:1 43:22 46:4 17:24 18:11 clearly 11:13 45:21,25
14:1 47:1,9 48:25 19:25 20:9 23:7 conflict 45:12
34:25 49:7 50:23,24 23:14 24:3,8 close 40:3 conform 44:21
cases 4:21,22 25:14 26:3 closer 8:13 46:25
28:12 11:3 12:5,15 44:7 49:6,12 codification conforming
12:25 13:7,10 50:22 15:5,7 45:3 46:19,23
39:11,14,24 chosen 46:4 comes 23:19 15:2,20,21
42:16,17,20,25 20:24 21:21 comfortably 17:19 19:16
50:10,12 categorically 34:5 commencing 35:19,23,25
46:3 causes 32:12 citizen 23:17 16:24 45:1,2,14,15
causing 39:6 City 4:21 Company 1:4 45:19,20 46:3
8:11 12:2 25:1 32:3,17,20 42:25 27:25
20:16 21:6,7 D 3:1 37:17 37:17
18:25 25:8,10 26:5,6 Day 20:25 21:3 determining distinguished
34:24 26:7,8,9,11,24 21:4,13,23 6:24 10:12 6:10 36:2
35:13 28:4,9 29:5,16 deadline 47:6 devoted 46:8 43:21
32:3,17,20 29:16 30:6 difference 6:6 docket 22:7
36:17,19,20 36:11 48:13 27:25 30:6,12 doubt 43:2 46:5
39:1,12,24 12:16 18:13,16 45:17 48:17 D.C 1:9,19
44:16,17 45:5 decision 4:17 28:3 earlier 33:13
20:10 48:16 49:21,24 50:12 direction 27:4 44:8
23:10 50:3,20,20 decisions 3:15 directions 37:2 effect 14:10 20:3
39:18 courts 6:25 7:4 4:15 14:15 disabilities 39:5 42:10,12
47:16 10:8 23:24 15:8 24:10 25:18 45:4
46:5 50:18 37:1 48:12,15 disagree 37:16 42:8 44:12
35:2 4:17 7:1,18 defendant 18:10 disagreed 48:23 either 14:24
19:18 39:1 40:14 26:23 30:10 29:25 emphasizing
41:18 45:7 defense 3:18 discussing 8:21 36:4
covers 29:13 24:20 32:19 dismiss 21:18 21:25
5:5,23 6:1 39:11 33:10,11,17 dismissal 27:20 employer 30:1
create 14:17 39:23 dismissed 26:9 employment
8:11 28:25 defenses 32:23 27:11 29:25
10:1,8 crystal 21:8 define 28:8 disputed 37:7 enact 47:4
13:4 cut 13:4 14:14 Department disrupting enacted 45:17
14:6 36:12 1:19 42:10 47:3
16:12,21 cuts 12:5 depend 41:17 disruptive 42:1 enforced 42:13
17:14 depends 35:17 dissent 10:12,21 English 3:11
excuse 16:19 37:6 39:12,21 49:25 goes 17:13 28:19
existing 39:20 45:17 47:1 10:6 13:14 14:15 17:19,21
15:17,22 explain 31:8 41:11 20:14 29:9 42:16,17
17:6 explicit 13:23,24 figure 27:22 30:2,5,15 good 41:10
19:7 explicitly 37:25 file 22:16,20 36:10,18 37:12 govern 25:23
25:1 expressed 15:20 44:17 FRAP 44:19 45:15
26:4 extends 26:25 filed 3:22 7:12 frequently 13:1 governing 30:10
27:6 21:20,22 22:6 front 22:6 38:22
extent 33:9 22:9 23:12 function 39:23 government
29:3 39:18 31:14,17 fundamental 3:18 10:8,9
26:10 38:24 further 24:1 18:5,9 19:8,9
14:18 F 44:9 50:20 19:13,20 20:5
36:18 37:24 26:2 30:7,8 14:17,20,25 25:24 26:22
35:12 44:21 45:8,9 40:21 44:7,20 25:13,22 26:16 28:22 29:11,20
25:3 facts 41:14,21 fit 46:6 generally 9:7 32:19 33:5
fails 31:19 32:15 following 12:6 28:7 31:21 39:15 40:9
42:12 fashion 8:13 former 44:13 13:6 19:4,15 25:5
favor 4:14 40:22 18:21 28:17 29:8 21:24 26:15
Federal 3:13,20 forum 16:25 36:9,25 39:7 42:18 43:13
8:8,8 7:3 8:9 9:25 forward 17:19 45:20,24 46:16 grant 8:13 14:8
16:21,22 20:24 46:11 47:6 give 16:16 grants 3:13 6:1
32:14 29:21 31:12 16:17 27:22 37:24 44:10 great 42:5 43:2
41:25 43:14 infancy 25:19 27:5,10,12,15 8:25 9:9,18,19
41:13 inserting 18:3 38:13 42:8 21:2 22:5
3:6,7,9 4:5 ignored 18:1 intended 27:15 31:2 37:12 32:6 34:9
5:4,12 imagine 40:8 30:11 33:21 42:21 43:3,6 35:11,14 36:7
6:9 7:13 immediately 35:20,23,25 issued 12:6,7 37:3,7,8 38:19
8:7 9:2,13 39:25 intent 35:10,16 issues 17:9 38:21 39:6,13
10:4,15 immunity 5:20 35:22 48:11 49:25 39:16 42:6,10
11:12 7:23 14:3 inter 25:10 43:1,8,12,19
12:1,12 15:14,19 16:7 interest 43:13 J 44:2,10 45:10
13:6 16:9 18:7,9 interesting JEFFREY 1:16 45:13 46:1,20
19:14,17 20:12 20:25 37:15 2:3,8 3:7 49:16 48:19 50:2,7
16:11 20:21 22:16 38:6 John 1:3 3:4 50:13,16
18:18 49:23 interfere 7:6 judge 21:19 jurisdictionality
20:9 implication 44:1 interpretation judges 22:5 27:8 38:1
22:13,19 implicit 37:21 6:8 20:15 23:12 Justice 1:19 3:3
implied 25:24 30:23 50:15 judgment 40:22 3:9 4:3,6,13,25
40:4 important 50:11 interpreted 8:11 judgments 5:7,14 6:3,24
impose 29:22 34:6 24:14 7:8,19,25 8:7
35:14 43:17 involve 13:15 Judicial 35:12 8:16 9:2,11,15
impute 35:21 19:17 20:2 3:17,21,23,24 10:20 11:5,17
23:23 inapplicable involving 42:25 6:16,18 7:11 12:13,17,20,24
30:7 13:23 43:15,16 8:15 13:2,9 13:6,10 14:1,9
35:2 include 41:20 Irvin 10:2 14:6 16:4,22 14:12,19,23,24
including 34:15 Irwin 3:15 4:17 17:1,2,14 22:7 15:10 16:11,16
42:6 16:23,24 16:4 17:15,22 jurisdictional 24:19,25 25:14
Indians 16:20 18:19 19:5,12 3:12 4:1,7,24 25:20,21 26:3
29:8 14:7 15:9,11 17:13 18:3 31:15 32:5 mention 6:22
31:20 15:19 17:5 20:12 21:10,17 loose 36:6,10 mentioning 6:21
33:3 20:16 24:17 21:18 22:22 lose 15:1 mere 8:17 50:13
34:25 26:2,25 31:3 30:13 31:21,23 lost 49:7,19 50:14
36:9,25 31:16,25 32:2 32:18,24 33:4 lot 8:17 38:9 met 26:11
32:5 33:7,14 33:4,19 34:1 42:2 meticulous 36:6
38:6 35:9,13 36:7 35:18 36:1,13 lower 27:11 Michigan 1:16
40:4 41:9 36:10,16 38:18 36:16,24 38:22 mind 33:25
44:7,15 39:5,20 45:12 39:9,22 41:7 M minimum 11:2,2
46:16 45:13,17 46:4 42:19,22 47:19 majority 6:22 minor 24:17
48:6 47:5 50:5,19 47:19,24 48:7 10:13,22 21:7 minutes 49:14
49:6,12 large 33:18 48:8,14,20 22:1 37:16 mixing 28:18
Laughter 22:18 50:7,8 38:3,4,7 41:6 moderately 16:5
lawsuits 19:5 43:17 44:8,10 MALCOLM moved 21:17
17:23,25 left 32:2 11:3 12:5,15 matter 1:12 3:17
24:23 legal 3:14 25:17 12:25 18:20 3:23,24,25 N
36:5 48:1,12,15 19:24 24:10 5:22 14:5 16:3 N 2:1,1 3:1
legislative 18:2 37:5 38:20 17:13 47:2,15 nature 16:6 17:6
12:5,15 let's 33:24 lines 4:20 50:14,25 necessary 7:10
19:24 level 45:19 46:7 link 27:9 matters 29:24 7:19 27:1
light 35:10 listed 25:11 20:25 21:4,5 41:14
limit 3:16,25 lists 32:24 21:13,23 22:1 never 34:14
31:20 5:21 8:15 14:5 literal 47:25 mean 8:24 11:22 36:19
48:6 24:13 25:13 litigant 43:2 13:19,24 20:20 nevertheless
29:12,15 29:2,7,10 42:11 30:7,12,16 New 4:21
47:25 30:21 35:14 little 15:24,25 33:9 35:3 nonjurisdictio...
39:14 42:9,10 43:12 logic 9:14 30:3 44:16 43:14
41:14 43:19 44:2 logical 44:1 meaning 35:25 nonjurisdictio...
44:24 47:7 48:17,18 logically 3:24 36:22 34:22
9:7 15:13 50:1 look 5:18 10:24 13:5 24:13 39:6
14:17 15:16 47:18 34:8 39:2 44:18
7:8,21
24:6 46:9,10 30:14 31:23 38:17 50:1,5
originally 44:18 permit 31:8 points 36:17 16:3
20:5 28:24 posed 10:18 6:7 10:13
overrule 4:15 pertain 40:3 21:14,24,24 30:9 40:10
16:5 petition 3:22 40:10,11 44:6 15:24 18:5
17:4 44:12 31:24,25 32:13 27:17 29:1 46:7
18:7,8,8 overturn 18:17 33:13,14 35:15 practice 44:13 probably 34:14
20:11,21 35:16 42:7 precedent 10:13 41:19
45:10 P 48:10 31:1 47:14,23 problem 13:14
47:2 P 3:1 phase 36:21 precedes 4:2 46:13
parallel 33:8 phrased 4:1 predecessor 39:21 44:23,24
12:6 48:11,15 31:24 32:1 preexisting 47:5 produce 30:23
26:7 particular 5:24 33:13 50:18 prerequisites property 23:9
37:2,21 16:25 25:18 plainly 7:17 27:13 proposing 14:2
48:23 28:11 34:18 plaintiff 40:22 present 41:15 provide 38:15
45:8 37:24 48:17,18 plain-text 7:6 President 46:11 provides 31:10
particularly plead 33:17 41:8 pressing 20:15 provision 6:8
18:5 19:10 pleadings 21:17 presumes 32:7 prudent 44:14
23:17,18 31:24 represented rule 4:14 6:6 22:15,20
18:16 38:11 required 39:1 19:6,8 20:2,6 seas 25:15,16
24:18,20 rebuttable 41:18 20:11 25:1,22 second 6:20 41:5
30:6,25 34:23 requirement 26:16,18,20 section 3:11,16
35:1,3 rebuttal 2:7 24:12 26:10 32:17,21,22 3:19 4:23 5:12
41:2 35:2 49:16 reserve 24:2 33:6,8 37:19 5:20,22 7:14
46:8 rebutted 25:9 resolved 43:6 38:10,13,16 7:21,22 10:6
30:20 50:11 respect 19:9 39:8,19,21 12:8 14:7
49:22 27:10 29:5 28:5,6 29:24 44:19,19,20,22 28:5 30:12
recodification 32:9 49:18 44:22,25 45:2 33:18 36:20
Respondent ruled 20:10 46:14
31:19 38:15 responsive 44:5 26:3
42:19 reenacted 11:19 32:23 Ryan 13:7 separate 41:19
reference 47:23 result 30:23 set 33:25 34:3,5
23:19,20 references 28:14 results 42:2 S 2:1 3:1 settled 42:21
referred 27:19 return 33:12 Sand 1:3 3:4 short 7:20
13:22 relate 15:14 34:25 40:2 39:9,22 40:1 silentio 29:4
17:21 relates 34:21 44:3 46:21 47:9 similar 5:13
30:15 relevant 6:8 risky 10:11 says 11:9,10,17 simple 35:1
32:1 41:21 43:19 ROBERTS 3:3 13:2 15:6 simply 13:16
relied 9:4 25:10 4:13,25 5:7 6:3 16:14,20 19:8 16:8 20:2
42:18 10:11,17,20 19:21 31:16 27:14,16 30:21
15:9 remainder 24:2 17:17 18:11 37:6 42:21 38:20 39:20
35:23 remaining 49:15 19:25 23:14 44:24 50:5 42:7 43:8
47:14,23 remedy 5:17 8:6 24:3 25:14 Scalia 4:3,6 8:16 site 40:17
49:10 repeatedly 27:21 30:2 9:2,11,16 situation 13:19
23:20 state 8:3,4 31:20,22 33:3 18:22,23 23:7 Supreme 1:1,13
stated 15:3 33:4,19 35:18 25:16 26:12 11:8
9:4 states 1:1,7,13 statute's 47:11 29:23 32:10 table 6:4
10:2,21 3:5,20 24:15 statutory 6:6 42:21 take 19:2 48:23
12:18 28:11 31:11,12 15:6 19:4 subtle 8:17 takings 19:18
24:23 32:3,11,15,18 25:13 28:6 successful 41:4 29:14
26:15 33:16 38:25 46:12 47:7 sue 43:3 talk 34:7 35:9
statute 3:25 4:10 50:14,15 sues 43:2 talking 13:11
14:3 8:22 9:1,6,22 32:1,8 37:11 18:18 38:17 tends 15:1 50:3
16:7 11:13,19 12:3 38:6 47:13 48:2 49:18 tension 45:12
18:7,8 13:16 14:4,11 48:22 suggested 6:5,7 term 30:9 37:9
20:12 14:21 15:9,13 Stewart 1:18 2:5 8:9 27:1 28:18 terms 26:3 28:7
22:16 16:14 17:5,10 24:5,6,8,19,22 40:5 28:10 29:5,7
17:11,13 18:2 25:2,16 26:1 suggesting 31:18 32:14
21:18 22:4,21 31:1,6,22 32:4 46:23 terribly 28:18
21:19 25:11,18 26:11 34:20 35:5,8 suit 26:22 28:8,9 text 3:19 17:9
29:18 31:4,4,7 36:14 37:5,23 28:15 29:6 31:7,15
16:14 36:13,22 39:22 46:2,22 47:22 19:6,7,12 25:4 theirs 34:17
29:16 42:19,22 44:18 48:9 49:3,9,13 25:6,23 27:7 theoretical 11:3
46:14 44:20,21 45:3 stick 46:4 30:10 32:19 18:19
45:10,13 46:6 strict 18:25 38:22 43:17 theoretically
47:3,4,7,18,23 structure 4:4,9 supersede 33:1 thereon 3:22
23:13,25 10:9 11:15 sub 29:4 suppose 8:25 16:6
50:17 25:4 26:21 5:21 14:5 supposed 11:23 9:14 10:2,4,24
13:3 timeliness 4:2 45:9 48:13 untimely 43:25 wanted 17:12
14:2,6 21:6 33:17 trial 21:19 use 36:6,10 45:16 47:4
15:5,8 timely 21:20,22 true 19:15 22:23 uses 5:5 wants 50:3
16:2,11 22:9 23:12 26:5 42:24 usually 8:1 war 49:19
32:11 38:23 trump 15:9 22:15 23:19 Washington 1:9
42:23 48:5,21 trying 13:4 40:7 1:19
22:19 Title 3:12 4:18 35:21 38:13,14 U.S 45:1,21,24 wasn't 17:22
24:20,25 5:1,2 8:10 9:6 Tucker 4:11 26:18 45:25
26:1,11 26:22 29:21 16:17,19 V 46:13,20
31:22 today 3:4 18:13 Tuesday 1:10 v 1:6 3:5 4:21 way 4:1 10:25
33:6,23 40:9 two 4:20 16:5 8:11 13:7 15:23 17:21
34:3,16 told 20:25 38:18 26:1,5 27:9 20:25 21:4,4 23:18 25:3
35:4 39:4 46:24 28:21 39:9 21:13,23 22:1 29:25 32:12
38:1 toll 25:13 40:20 28:11 38:1 42:17,17
39:4,7 tollable 9:8,9 type 29:17 various 24:16 43:6,9 46:23
41:9 50:1 typically 43:19 44:7 48:5,21 49:24
42:24 tolled 5:6 9:18 version 25:17 ways 6:10 12:5
9:20,22 12:9 U versus 27:3 went 16:24
44:5,13 14:18 25:12 ultimately 40:23 viable 41:7 we'll 3:3 42:22
tolling 4:19 41:2 view 35:5 42:18 we're 6:16 17:21
47:8 14:16 15:17,22 unassailed 50:2 47:14
16:9 17:6,7,11 50:17 we've 4:6 8:23
13:16 26:16,19,21 underpinnings waive 28:20 White's 37:17
34:14 27:6,7,14,16 11:3 18:19 waived 9:23 37:22
45:5 28:1 29:3 understand 14:3 18:8,25 win 11:11
30:19 18:18 26:13,14 19:16 20:12,21 won 49:19
Tort 5:13 8:9 49:7 50:12 22:24 28:20 words 30:7,11
22:2 totally 11:9 26:17 38:23 47:17 44:4
tracks 33:7,7 33:21 waiver 5:21,24 44:13
19:4 6:12,15,18 unequivocally 19:14,19 21:12 write 11:5
24:2 treat 46:22 15:20 48:16 21:14,16 31:8 writing 11:6
27:17 treated 18:4,9 unexceptional waivers 17:9 written 31:23
29:7 19:20 30:8 36:13,15 waives 5:20 21:9 wrong 47:16
30:17 35:11 38:19 United 1:1,7,13 waivibility 26:4 wrongly 12:16
38:24 42:6 44:9 3:5,20 24:15 27:9 28:2
43:17 46:12 28:11 31:11,12 want 11:20 X
47:5 treating 42:9 32:2,11,15 14:14,16,16 x 1:2,8
50:6 43:7 44:1 33:16 38:24 21:1,2 27:24
treatment 43:12 universe 13:20 37:19 38:9 Y
years 3:22 8:18
12:7,11 47:24
31:14,17 28 3:12
2:4
1:6 3:4 4
2:9
40:18 6
1:14 3:2 6 1:10 3:22
18:15 31:14,17
50:24 6-year 24:11
16:20 25:12
7:23
7
16:19,19 7 4:18 5:1,2 9:6
26:22 29:21
12:7,11 8
4:10 18:3
5:9
32:17,21,22
24:11
11:24
16:21 9
11:10 9 28:12
9A 16:18
12:7 42:8 91 5:25
40:12,13
41:12
31:9
1:10
46:25
28:12
2:6
5:9,10,12
8:9
3:11,16,19
5:1,2,5,11
7:7,9,22
9:9 10:6
14:7
24:12
29:13
33:18
37:3
43:16
