IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ARNOLD M. PRESTON, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1463
ALEX E. FERRER. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, January 14, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JOSEPH D. SCHLEIMER, ESQ., Beverly Hills, Cal.; on
behalf of the Petitioner.
G. ERIC BRUNSTAD, JR., ESQ., Hartford, Conn.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JOSEPH D. SCHLEIMER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
G. ERIC BRUNSTAD, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 21
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JOSEPH D. SCHLEIMER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 06-1463, Preston v. Ferrer.
Mr. Schleimer.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH D. SCHLEIMER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SCHLEIMER: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
It's been a little less than two years since
this Court handed down the decision in Buckeye Check
Cashing Service v. Cardegna. Within nine months after
Buckeye was decided, the California Court of Appeal
issued its decision in this case excising the issue of
validity or legality of a contract from an entire
category of arbitrations, declaring it off limits to
arbitration.
The contract in this case couldn't be more
clear. It states quite specifically that the validity
or legality of the contract shall be arbitrated. So
there was no consideration given to the intent of the
parties.
The Federal Arbitration Act, of course,
applies in this case. There was never really a dispute
about that, because it'S a contract between the citizens
of two States and it was never disputed that the Federal
Arbitration Act would apply.
If left standing, the decision in this case
could result in a multiplicity of State law decisions
and statutes eliminating arbitration in entire classes
of cases through the mere expediency of having it go to
an administrative agency.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, It wouldn't
eliminate it. Your friend on the other side says it the
simply delays it, because you get to arbitrate de novo
after the commissioner's decision.
MR. SCHLEIMER: Well, the assertion that we
get to arbitrate de novo is new in this Court. In the
courts below the parties agreed, and both sides briefed,
the fact that the de novo would be heard by the superior
court, not by the arbitrator. I don't know what -- by
what magical process the Respondent would think that we
would get to arbitrate the de novo, because the statute
on which the court of appeal based its jurisdictional
holding, Labor Code Section 1700.44, that's where the
labor commissioner gets jurisdiction from the same
statute and says the superior court hears the de novo.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I guess I
could let him answer, but I suppose he would say you go
to that court, and you get a motion to compel
arbitration.
MR. SCHLEIMER: Well, we have brought a
motion to compel arbitration, which was denied based on
1700.44.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I couldn't find the order
that the court -- in the record it says that the order
would be -- the court granted a preliminary injunction,
the superior court, and then it said, according to an
order to be entered by the clerk. How long was the
arbitration stayed for? There was an enjoined -- there
was an injunction. What was the term of the injunction?
Just until further order of the court?
MR. SCHLEIMER: The injunction states -- and
I'm implying this, because it doesn't actually state how
long it lasts -- the injunction was requested and it was
granted with just the word "grant." So I interpret it
as meaning that what was granted was what was requested,
and what was requested was an injunction that would last
until the Labor Commissioner determined that she doesn't
have jurisdiction. Now, since the Labor Commissioner
had already determined that she does have jurisdiction,
it's effectively permanent or, as you say,
Justice Kennedy, until the court vacates it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did the Respondent at any
point indicate that after the Labor Commission, Labor
Commissioner, made a determination that they would not
go to superior court for de novo review?
MR. SCHLEIMER: Well, they actually had in a
sense an opportunity to do exactly that and chose not
to. The motion for reconsideration was brought before
the Labor -- before the arbitrator one day before the
injunction hearing. The arbitrator said: Well, it's
inefficient to have parallel proceedings and maybe I can
benefit from the Labor Commissioner's advice in this.
So while retaining his jurisdiction, he said: I'm going
to stay the arbitration until the Labor Commissioner
rules.
Now, at that point the Respondent could have
simply withdrawn the injunction and said, fine, we'll do
it the way the arbitrator says; what the arbitrator
wants, the arbitrator shall get. Instead, the next day
the arbitrator's decision became moot. Now, I think the
arbitrator, acting with an injunction looming the next
day, was proposing in a sense a kind of compromise: You
can both have a little bit of what you want. It's not
unusual in arbitrations for that to happen.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, you may have a
right to go to arbitration under this context, to
proceed at once to arbitration. But could you stop a
parallel proceeding from going on before the Labor
Commission? In other words, your adversary says under
the arbitration contract I'm stuck, I have to arbitrate
at once, but I can go to the Labor Commission; there's
nothing in the Federal Arbitration Act that says I can't
do that.
MR. SCHLEIMER: Justice Ginsburg, I think
that if the motion to compel arbitration had been
granted -- remember there were two motions pending, my
motion to compel arbitration and the Respondent's motion
for an injunction to stop the arbitration.
If the motion to compel arbitration had been
granted, I think that would have been in effect a
mandamus to Judge Ferrer that he had to arbitrate and
not proceed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would have thought you
would -- you would say that when you have a contract
which says that any disputes under this shall be
arbitrated pursuant to the rules of the AAA or whatever,
that that does automatically exclude a parallel
proceeding. Otherwise, provisions like that make no
sense at all; they achieve nothing.
MR. SCHLEIMER: Justice Scalia, I would
certainly agree that it's a breach of the contract to
file a parallel proceeding. The question, of course, is
specific performance.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What do you -- what do you
make, in answering Justice Scalia's question, what do
you make of the fact that this contract included, I
guess, a choice of law provision to the effect that
California law applies, and if California law comes in
so does the jurisdiction of the Labor Commissioner? So
that in effect you have implicitly agreed to take the
Labor Commissioner as well as agreeing to arbitrate, and
the argument is the Labor Commissioner comes first.
MR. SCHLEIMER: Well, Justice Souter, I have
two responses to that. My first is that, since there's
an express agreement to arbitrate validity or legality,
that there is certainly no basis for saying that there's
some implied intent to contradict the express agreement.
The second is that, assuming for a moment
that we have incorporated California law wholesale, and
California has a lot of law, one of the laws that
California has, as set forth in the case I cited,
Qualcomm v. Nokia, a Federal Circuit decision in 2006
under California law, California law has a rule that if
you incorporate the AAA rules into your agreement, you
meet the First Option standard that you have agreed to
arbitrate arbitrability.
Now, if we have incorporated California law,
we have incorporated the law that says the arbitrator's
decision, his initial decision saying I've got
jurisdiction, let's hear some evidence, then that's
incorporated in California law --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you agree that the
question of implicit option of California law is at
issue in the case as it gets to us?
MR. SCHLEIMER: I don't believe that Volt is
properly in the case. If you look at the court of
appeals decision, the decision is based on jurisdiction,
it's not based on intent of the parties. Volt is all
about the intent of the parties that you imply from a
choice of law clause. And if the intent of the parties
is so clearly expressed that we're going to arbitrate a
particular issue, I don't think you even get to an
implied intention.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why isn't that an issue in
the case, unless you're waiving the issue? Wouldn't it
be a question of contract interpretation as to the
meaning of the choice of law provision that should be
decided by the arbitrator? Unless you want to waive
that argument.
MR. SCHLEIMER: I that that Volt should be
rejected. But in the alternative, I think under First
Options it should be remanded to the arbitrator. If
they want to make an argument that we didn't intend to
arbitrate arbitrability, even though California law is
per se on that point in our favor, then you have the
option of remanding that question to the arbitrator.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I have to
confess I've never understood these choice of alaw
provisions. You incorporate California law. I assume
California law is interpreted consistent with Federal
law. If Federal law preempts California law, that's
what you're incorporating. It always struck me as kind
of circular.
MR. SCHLEIMER: Well, I think lawyers do it
reflexively because out of fear that somehow the law in
some other State that they don't know is going to wind
up being the conflict of law --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When you say
California law applies, you don't mean to the exclusion
of Federal law?
MR. SCHLEIMER: Of course not. I mean, if
one incorporates California law, one doesn't incorporate
pre-empted California law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Nor do you mean that
California applies even when it contradicts the express
provisions of your agreement? I mean, the specific
governs of the general?
MR. SCHLEIMER: Absolutely. The Federal
Arbitration Act is all about effectuating the intent of
the parties to expeditiously and privately decide the
issue.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I must say that the Volt
case is written in rather sweeping language that's not
particularly helpful to you. On its facts, I think it's
different because there were other parties, independent
parties in the litigation. Don't you think that's the
best way to distinguish Volt in your case?
MR. SCHLEIMER: Certainly. To that I would
add the observation that under Volt, since there were
parties that were not bound by arbitration, you are
going to have all the expense of the other lawsuits,
anyway. So, you have in terms of the efficiency of the
proceeding, in Volt you were going to have a
multiplication of litigation no matter what you did.
Here that's not true. The only reason we had a
multiplication of litigation is because Judge Ferrer
filed a Labor Commissioner petition and then a Superior
Court lawsuit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, would you
have any problem with a California law that said you can
arbitrate but the arbitrator must allow the Labor
Commissioner to file an amicus brief?
MR. SCHLEIMER: I don't know the Labor
Commissioner has ever attempted that. I wouldn't be
concerned about it. I know --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if it goes on
and says, and you must allow the Labor Commissioner to
appear at the arbitration?
MR. SCHLEIMER: Well, that is what 1700.45
says for talent agents. In 20 years I've never heard of
the Labor Commissioner doing that. But I can't imagine
anyone is going to be awfully concerned about it. I
certainly wouldn't be. If the Labor Commissioner wanted
to attend, they would be welcome. I don't think that's
based on a legal right because my client's a personal
manager and isn't regulated by the talent agency --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, what if it says
you've got to wait for 30 days to allow the Labor
Commissioner to consider whether or not to intervene?
MR. SCHLEIMER: I'm not sure -- I
certainly -- personally, in this case no problem with
that. I don't think that's how it works. The statute
simply requires notice and an opportunity to attend; and
there's no issue in this case as to whether the Labor
Commissioner was deprived of that, because we never got
to that point.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does the Labor
Commissioner have authority to commence proceedings on
his own motion or her own motion?
MR. SCHLEIMER: It's a little bit
complicated.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm sorry that I
asked already.
MR. SCHLEIMER: I have an answer for you.
The Labor Commissioner is considered a peace officer
under California law. They actually have the power to
arrest. At one point many years ago, there was an
arrest of a manager for soliciting and procuring. He
got Jane Wyman a job on a TV show called "Falcon Crest,"
and there was an arrest and there was a criminal statute
at that time. And the legislature responded to this
incident by repealing the criminal statute.
So the only action the legislature has had
since deregulating the managers and taking them out of
the statute entirely was removing the criminal
enforcement power. In terms of the Labor Commissioner's
civil enforcement powers, there are statutes. The first
hundred sections in the labor code do give the Labor
Commissioner certain intervention powers. But, reading
those statutes, they would seem to apply in wage cases
and confiscation of tools, that sort of thing. They
don't really mention -- now would the Labor
Commissioner -- if the Labor Commissioner wanted to
intervene, I think that if you take the penumbra of all
these statutes probably the Labor Commissioner could.
I think, even though there's not in my 20
years handling these cases been a situation where the
Labor Commissioner filed any kind of a civil proceeding,
everybody assumes the Labor Commissioner could seek an
injunction if they wanted to. It just doesn't occur
because they're busy doing things like collecting wages.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could the arbitrator
decide, I know I'm not required to do this but the Labor
Commissioner is the expert and I'd rather wait until the
Labor Commissioner acted before I proceed with the
arbitration?
MR. SCHLEIMER: Well, in a sense, under the
gun of the injunction hearing the next day, that's what
the arbitrator did.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Take out the exception.
The arbitrator just thinks that it would be good to have
the advice of the Labor Commissioner because the
arbitrator is not so familiar with these talent agency
arrangements.
MR. SCHLEIMER: I would certainly protest,
but the arbitrator undoubtedly has the power to wait for
the Labor Commissioner to render an advisory decision.
In a sense that's what the arbitrator did. In a moment
of I think irrational exuberance he talked about the
expertise of the Labor Commissioner.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How was the
arbitrator chosen? Does he or she have any particular
expertise in this area?
MR. SCHLEIMER: Yes. Mr. Bosch has 32 years
as an entertainment lawyer. He knows the Talent Agency
Act considerable better than any of the civil service
lawyers at the Labor Commissioner. That's why I
referred to it as irrational exuberance, because the
Labor Commissioner -- some of them get pretty good and
then they move on to other jobs, and you wind up with
people who hear wage claims.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you go to the superior
court for de novo review, can you ask the superior court
for an order enforcing its decision?
MR. SCHLEIMER: Enforcing the Labor
Commissioner's decision?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you get de novo
review. So do you ask the court for an order -- a
declaratory order, declaring that the person is a talent
agent or is not a talent agent?
MR. SCHLEIMER: Well, that is what Judge
Ferrer asked the superior court to do, was first send
this to the Labor Commissioner. Then specifically the
complaint by Judge Ferrer sought declaratory relief,
that the arbitration is void, the guy is an illegal
talent agent, so he should never be allowed to
arbitrate. That was the declaratory relief that was
sought.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So do you think it would
be within the authority of the superior court to say
this is a judgment binding on the parties and the
arbitration will not proceed, or must proceed
consistently with my order?
MR. SCHLEIMER: Well, absent -- our position
is that that's preemptive, of course. Absent the
arbitration agreement, it would be the superior court
that would decide it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. Well, but if the
Respondent prevails, don't you think that the superior
court has that authority?
MR. SCHLEIMER: If the Respondent prevails
in the Labor Commissioner?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If Respondent prevails in
this case, don't you think that the superior court can
then say that its declaration is final and the
arbitration shall not proceed?
MR. SCHLEIMER: The position I've taken from
the beginning, including in my briefs to the court of
appeals was yes, that if the decision is correct, if
this Court affirms the court of appeals, that the
de novo would go to the superior court. Now, it is a
true de novo; in other words, it's not deferential to
the Labor Commissioner. It's simply a complete
rehearing from scratch of the whole case.
But it has always been my position and it
was until we got to this Court the Respondent's position
that the de novo would go to the superior court.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is it -- I should know
this, but I don't. Imagine that Jones and Smith, civil
engineers, builders, enter into a contract. They have
an arbitration provision suspiciously like this one. It
says we promise to arbitrate everything, any dispute,
including a dispute about whether this agreement is
legal or not itself. They have that. They go to the
arbitrator.
Jones says: You know, Mr. Arbitrator, you
don't know that much about civil engineering, but
there's a judge here who does. So I think what I'm
going to do tomorrow is file a lawsuit in the superior
court in California making the same claims I'm making
here and maybe that judge will decide it first and then
you'll be really helped. Now what stops him from doing
that in the law?
MR. SCHLEIMER: Well, the Federal
Arbitration Act and the California Arbitration --
JUSTICE BREYER: The Federal -- the Federal
Arbitration Act says what that makes it clear he can't
do that?
MR. SCHLEIMER: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I grant you if he
can do it you might as well tear up the Federal
Arbitration Act and throw it out the window. But I just
want to know what is it in the law specifically that
stops him from doing that.
MR. SCHLEIMER: Well, I think in Section 3
would -- there should be a stay of the judicial
proceedings so that the arbitration can proceed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's not positive
Federal law. What stops him from doing it is the
contractual agreement, isn't it, between the parties?
The FAA just says that the State will not set aside that
contractual agreement.
MR. SCHLEIMER: Yes, Justice Scalia. The
obligation comes from the contract.
JUSTICE BREYER: So even though it's not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: When we say we'll arbitrate
all disputes under this contract, it means we'll
arbitrate all disputes under this contract; neither one
of us will go to court.
MR. SCHLEIMER: I think that's doubly so if
you incorporate the rules of the American Arbitration
Association, which provides you with the maximum
breadth.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, but that -- that's
what I'm driving at, and I think that's interesting,
that there's an implicit -- because it doesn't say it
explicitly -- there's an implicit promise not to
undermine this contract by running off to court.
MR. SCHLEIMER: I think it's a covenant of
good faith and fair dealing. If you agree to do it you
should do it.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. And so you
can't -- no case comes to your mind where anybody has
tried that little end run? And --
MR. SCHLEIMER: I think there are a couple
--
JUSTICE BREYER: I agree, I don't see how
they could, but I just want to get to the bottom of it.
MR. SCHLEIMER: I think this entire area of
jurisprudence involves pre-dispute arbitration
agreements and then some party decides it's not to my
advantage and they run to court. That's almost every
case.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I used to teach contract
law, and I am sure that when you say you'll arbitrate,
it means you won't litigate. And even if I didn't ever
teach contract law, it would still be the law.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought Buckeye was --
was such a case, going to court despite the arbitration
agreement.
MR. SCHLEIMER: At -- at the time we were in
the superior court, Buckeye had not yet been decided.
We were -- in December of 2005 was the injunction
hearing, and Buckeye I believe was published in February
of 2006.
I relied on the California case, the
Erickson case, which made Prima Paint the law of
California, and it wasn't persuasive. Then Buckeye was
handed down while we were on appeal. But I certainly,
when I read Buckeye, I said that's my price, because
Prima Paint was about fraud in the inducement. We were
in a situation where we were dealing with an attack on
the legality of the entire contract and I read Buckeye
and said, that's my case.
Mr. Chief Justice, if there's no further
questions, I'd like to reserve my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Brunstad.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF G. ERIC BRUNSTAD, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. BRUNSTAD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The California Talent Agencies Act does not
invalidate the arbitration agreement between Mr. Preston
and Judge Ferrer. At most, it merely postpones
arbitration --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the question is
obvious. The question just follows from what I said.
You were there nodding your head when everybody seems
seemed to agree that the Jones versus Smith, they can't
go run off to court. So you're just about to address
this, and I hope you'll include the answer to the
question, which is if they can't run off to the
Federal -- to the State court judge, the superior court
judge, to get his opinion on the matter, why can they
run off to this man, namely the talent agency expert --
MR. BRUNSTAD: The Labor Commissioner --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- who happens to be an
administrative agency? Why does it matter?
MR. BRUNSTAD: I think to answer your
question, Justice Breyer, it's helpful just to delineate
the procedure of how it's supposed to work. You're
supposed to go to the California Labor Commissioner
first if there's any controversy arising under the
California Talent Agencies Act. That is an exhaustion
of administrative remedies concept that the California
Supreme Court articulated in Styne v Stevens. After the
California Talent Agencies Act has been administered by
the Labor Commissioner, either party has as of right the
ability to take an appeal to the California Superior
Court, at which point all of the California arbitration
rules apply, and a motion to compel arbitration could be
made at that point and arbitration could happen. And
now it's a de novo hearing from the Labor Commissioner's
proceeding, which means under California law, the
Waisbren case and the Buchwald case, that it's as though
the Labor Commissioner proceeding had not happened at
all. The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did you take a position
below? Your friend says that this is brand new up here.
MR. BRUNSTAD: It's not brand new,
Justice Scalia. We never got that far.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did you take that position
below, was the question.
MR. BRUNSTAD: We never took that position
below because we never got that far, Justice Kennedy.
We only got to the point whether we should have a
preliminary injunction so that the Labor Commissioner
could go first. Once the Labor Commissioner --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The arbitrator already
agreed to do that. You didn't need the injunction for
that purpose.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, the motion for the
injunction was filed because the arbitrator initially
denied a stay of arbitration. The arbitrator himself
then reconsidered his ruling a day before the hearing on
the injunction, and the arbitrator said I'd like to hear
from the Labor Commissioner because the Labor
Commissioner is expert.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well -- but if your
position is that we have to preserve the integrity of
the State system, the Labor expert and so forth and the
State builds in to that procedure, de novo review
Superior Court, it seems to me rather difficult for you
to now just say oh, well, the Superior Court doesn't
make any difference.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, Justice Kennedy, I
think that it is important -- this goes back to
Justice Breyer's question. Why is it a de novo
proceeding? Well, in the Sinnamon case, which we cite
in our brief, there are constitutional reasons under the
California's constitution. The Labor Commissioner
doesn't exercise any judicial authority and does not
have the power to finally decide this controversy. The
Labor Commissioner is merely exercising her
administrative power over this dispute because this is
part of a comprehensive regulatory scheme.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would you want this to
happen? Why -- who would imagine such a system in which
you bring it to the Labor Commissioner and you prevent
the matter from being resolved immediately with an
arbitrator. I don't know how long does it take for the
Labor Commissioner? I don't know.
MR. BRUNSTAD: On average 8 months, Justice
Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Eight months. But then
when he's done --
MR. BRUNSTAD: She, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: She. No matter what
happens, you go back to the arbitrator. Who in his
right mind would set up such a system?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, there are valid
reasons. There are very compelling reasons why
California set up this system. California law says if
you're going to act like a talent agent, you're going to
procure employment -- that's the touchstone -- you're
acting as a talent agency, you're supposed to submit
your contracts in advance for pre-approval from the
Labor Commissioner. You're supposed to bring your
disputes there. That's how the Labor Commissioner
learns of disputes. The Labor Commissioner is supposed
to develop this body of law by interpreting it. All --
JUSTICE SCALIA: This person is not a talent
agent.
MR. BRUNSTAD: The is person is a talent
agent, Justice Scalia. He was operating to procure
employment. And the statute says anyone who even
attempts to procure employment is a talent agent, and
that is all that Mr. Preston did.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Normally we say that
those types of disputes are for the arbitrator to
decide. The theory is that the arbitrator can apply the
existing law as well as a court, and if that's the
theory, couldn't the arbitrator apply the existing law
as well as an agency?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Chief Justice Roberts, there
are other things that the Labor Commissioner is invested
with jurisdiction to do. The Labor Commissioner has to
find out about these disputes. How does she find out?
Because parties bring these petitions. This is a great
deterrent for people from violating the California
Talent Agencies Act. It works because the dispute has
to come before her. She knows who the bad apples are.
She knows she can go to get injunctive relief if she
needs to. Her expertise is advanced. She gets to
decide the controversy initially. And it merely
postpones arbitration. And critically, this is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, that may be great as
a means of informing the Labor Commissioner, but it
virtually destroys the value of arbitration --
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, but the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- because the
expeditiousness of arbitration is gone once you start
down the California procedural road. They don't want to
go to arbitration 8 to 12 months later. They want it
now.
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Souter, it's
actually enhanced. It's enhanced for all the reasons
that, when exert brings his or her expertise to bear,
you can get a settlement; you get expedited resolution
the issues get refind. Most parties don't go to
arbitration after this because --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then they probably
shouldn't have agreed to arbitrate, but they did agree
to arbitrate, and they want to arbitrate now. And one
of the points of arbitration is to get the ball rolling
fast, and that cannot be done under the system you are
arguing for.
MR. BRUNSTAD: But, Justice Souter, this is
what they bargained for. They bargained for the
application of California law under the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Did you make that argument
below, that implicitly they have imported the California
labor scheme in as a -- in effect, as a condition
precedent to the arbitration?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Souter, we cited
the Volt case before the California court of appeal.
Now, the other side did not raise --
JUSTICE BREYER: It sounds as if you made
the argument -- well, you say we cited a case.
MR. BRUNSTAD: But, Justice Breyer, they did
not raise the pre-emption argument at all.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. The answer to
Justice Souter's question is no, we didn't raise it
below. Is that right?
MR. BRUNSTAD: We did by responding to their
argument. We did cite Volt. The only other --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you didn't go further
than to decide that case. Is that correct?
MR. BRUNSTAD: We did not go further than to
cite Volt, but let me --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Volt involves a third
party who is not party to the arbitration agreement.
You have a party who is bound nonetheless invoking the
Labor Commission to avoid going immediately to
arbitration. Volt is very clear. It involves a third
party, litigation involving a third party who is not
bound by the arbitration agreement. Here you have only
two parties. They are both bound by the arbitration
agreement. I don't see how you can invoke Volt.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Because Volt simply was about
-- a case about postponing arbitration in favor of
litigation going forward, which has actually had a
greater impact --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Litigation involving a
person who couldn't be brought into the arbitration.
MR. BRUNSTAD: True, but --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It makes sense to say
that piece of it involving a party who can't be before
the arbitrator should be -- should be -- go first. But
here you don't have anybody who isn't bound to go before
the arbitrator. You have no third party.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Except the Labor Commissioner
herself who is supposed to do these administrative
procedures for all kinds of validate and compelling
State court -- State law reasons.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Judgment involved would
have been binding --
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- on the third parties.
You don't -- and you assert that the judgment here
wouldn't be binding at all. It's just because the Labor
Commissioner, he or she, is such an expert on this --
your opponent says she's not at all --
MR. BRUNSTAD: She is, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I imagine that's
highly debatable.
It's a different case where you say you have
to wait for a court decision which will be conclusive as
to many of the people in the case.
MR. BRUNSTAD: But, Justice Scalia, in Volt,
the State court litigation went forward, the related
litigation. It could have res judicata/collateral
estoppel effects on the arbitration. It has even more
of an impact on arbitration --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said something about
that in your brief, and I think that you got it wrong.
You said something about -- that the outcome of the
litigation can have preclusive effect in the
arbitration. But that would be so only if the result
favored the non-party to the litigation, because the
non-party to the litigation cannot be bound by a
judgment that would adversely affect that party's
interest. That party wasn't in the proceeding. It
isn't bound by it. The parties to the litigation are
bound by it, not the non-parties to the litigation.
MR. BRUNSTAD: True, Justice Ginsburg, but
at least it can bind one of the parties and therefore
tie the hands of the arbitrator in the subsequent
proceeding. Here this is not possible. The parties
bargained for this in their agreement when they
bargained for the application of California law.
JUSTICE BREYER: Could California law do
this? I mean could they say, you know, we have a
problem. By the way, this is just a hypothetical. We
think that our judges in the Superior Court don't know
very much about building disputes.
Now, I say it is a hypothetical because, in
fact, Superior Court judges in California are excellent
judges. But California thinks, no, they don't know
enough about it. So here's what we do. We say when
Jones and Smith enter into an arbitration agreement, if
it happens to concern a building dispute, they have to
go to Federal -- they can go to the Superior Court. In
fact, if they want to, if one of them wants to, the
other one doesn't. And everything is delayed while the
Superior Court judge decides all the issues in the case.
And then after they can go back to arbitration, if of
course they still want to. Could California do that?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, if that's what parties
bargained for, that was their agreement. It would be --
JUSTICE BREYER: I've read the agreement,
and I don't quite find their -- here --
MR. BRUNSTAD: But I understand your
hypothetical --
JUSTICE BREYER: In my mind is what they do
is they have the same standard arbitration clause. So
I'm asking not about the parties; I'm asking about
California.
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: No. The answer is no. I
thought so. And so now you explain to me how this is
any different than what I just said, other than
substituting the words "Labor Commissioner" for
"California Superior Court" and substituting the words
"talent dispute" for the words "building dispute."
MR. BRUNSTAD: Because here what the Labor
Commissioner does is not what a court does. "Labor
Commissioner" is not synonymous with "the court" and
cannot be under California's constitution. Here you
have a complete, again, arbitration postponing rule and
nothing more. The arbitrator's hands are not tied in
any way; whereas the arbitrator's hands would be tied if
in fact you had court litigation that was conclusive
between the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. His hypothetical was
that the court decision would just be advisory and the
arbitrator could ignore it.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, that would be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just get, you know, a
knowledgeable person's input.
MR. BRUNSTAD: But, Justice Scalia, that
would be inconsistent with the arbitration clause
itself. Here, however, it is not. Here the parties
bargained for the application of California law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This contract said the same
thing. This contract will be governed by California
law.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would it suck up this
provision that says you have to go to the Superior
Court?
MR. BRUNSTAD: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. I don't think so
either.
MR. BRUNSTAD: But here it would, yes,
because California law requires you to go to the Labor
Commissioner first, not to --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I guess that would be
a question for the arbitrator.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just want to understand
your position. In this case, does the California
provision for de novo review in the Superior Court apply
to stay the arbitration while that aspect of the
proceeding is completed?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Under California law -- it is
California law -- you must go to the labor commissioner
first before you go either to court or the arbitrator.
You must go to the arbitrator second.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: My question was: You go
to the labor commissioner. You also have a de novo
right to go to the superior court.
MR. BRUNSTAD: That is correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the labor
commissioner said something absolutely silly. Wouldn't
you think you would have the right to go to the Superior
Court?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Either side -- either side
can go to the superior court.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it would make no sense
to do that and -- and not to also stay the arbitration.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Justice Kennedy, I think the
problem I'm having with your question is that I think
you are assuming that there's an arbitration in place
while the labor commissioner is going forward.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. Now, we have this
case. We have an arbitration clause.
MR. BRUNSTAD: We do.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The arbitrator is waiting.
You go to the labor commissioner, you go to the superior
court to say enjoin the arbitration while I go to the
labor commissioner.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The labor commissioner
does something silly. Can you not then go to superior
court and get de novo review of that wrong decision of
the labor commissioner before the arbitration starts?
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Kennedy, because
once --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Have you taken that
position consistently in this litigation?
MR. BRUNSTAD: We never got there, Justice
Kennedy. We never got to the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You have taken no position
on it either way?
MR. BRUNSTAD: We took the position that the
superior court should stay the arbitration because you
have to exhaust the administrative remedies first; and,
consistent with the Federal Arbitration Act, Section 2,
there might be grounds for invalidating this Arbitration
Act.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is there any California case
that says that this works this way? That after the
proceeding is finished before the labor commissioner,
the parties have a right to go to arbitration before
there's de novo review in the superior court?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Specifically, Justice Alito,
no. What the California courts have decided is that
there is a de novo right, and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: A de novo right in
Superior Court?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes. But the California
Supreme Court has also said, in construing its own
arbitration act, which is Section 1281, which is
basically the same as Section 2 of the FAA -- said,
look, when we have a right to go to court if you have an
arbitration proceeding, the -- a motion to compel
arbitration must be granted unless, for example, the
arbitration clause is invalid for some reason.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right, you at least
have that additional step. It is -- particularly since
you only have 10 days to appeal from the labor
commissioner, someone who wants to arbitrate has to
appeal, has to go to superior court and get a motion to
compel.
You can't even wait to see if your opponent
goes to superior court and -- well, if he has won, he
wouldn't go into court. But you have to go to the court
to get a motion to compel? You can't just go ahead and
proceed with arbitration.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, the parties could
voluntarily do that. But, yes, if you don't do the de
novo proceeding, then the labor commissioner's decision
becomes binding.
So you must take the step of doing the
notice of appeal and then do a motion to compel.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. You say -- I
thought you said it doesn't become binding. That it is
just advice to the arbitrator. Once you -- once you get
the remand to the arbitrator, it is not binding.
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Scalia. If I
made that impression, I'm sorry. I was mistaken. What
I am saying is that if -- if -- you have a right to take
an appeal to the California Superior Court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. BRUNSTAD: And once you get to the
California Superior Court, then, under Section 1281, you
have a right to move to compel for arbitration, just as
under the Federal Arbitration Act.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But --
MR. BRUNSTAD: If do you not do those
things, if you do not take the appeal, then the labor
commissioner's -- by default, her ruling becomes
binding. So you have to do the appellate process, and
you must file a motion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And if you -- and if
you are successful and get from the superior court an
order to compel arbitration, your opponent can then
appeal it, I assume.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Your opponent can appeal the
decision compelling the arbitration if it were
improperly granted, yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you telling us that
under no circumstance, if you prevail in this case,
would you go to the superior court for de novo review
and -- and, as part of that, stay the arbitration?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Justice Kennedy, if the
arbitration clause is valid and applicable, we will go
to arbitration. That validity and applicability has not
been tested by any court below. For example, are there
grounds --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Let's assume
the arbitration clause is valid.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, we will go to
arbitration.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Even though in this case
you have assumed that that arbitration has to be stayed
for the labor commissioner. So the case does not have
to be stayed, and you would not ask for it to be stayed,
in the superior court?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Labor commissioner goes
first. Then, we go to arbitration. If this Court rules
that the labor commissioner's jurisdiction is preempted,
then we go back to the -- to the lower court. If the
arbitration clause is valid and applicable, we will go
to arbitration. That is correct. Chief Justice
Roberts, you asked a question about the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Brunstad, I'm looking
at the point in which you said this in your brief. You
said you go to the labor commission, and then you go to
the Superior Court. This is page 13 of your brief.
The court is required to grant a motion
compelling arbitration if the parties have executed a
valid and applicable arbitration agreement.
Well, who determines if the parties have
executed a valid and applicable arbitration agreement?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Under First Options here,
were it not unmistakably clear that the parties said
that the arbitrator should decide arbitrability, that
would be for the court to decide.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, we know -- this is
not a mystery in this contract. It says it in the
contract, and it says it under the AAA rules. But you
phrased this in your brief in a way that says, well, if
the parties have executed a valid and applicable
arbitration agreement, that's what the superior court is
going to decide. So it won't grant a motion to compel
unless it determines that the parties have executed the
valid and applicable arbitration agreement.
MR. BRUNSTAD: And what I meant in that
language, Justice Ginsburg, is simply this: For
example, if the arbitration clause were invalid because
the arbitration clause, itself, were, say, fraudulent
or -- for something, then it would not be validate and
applicable; or if the scope of the arbitration clause
were limited in some way, then the scope issue, the
arbitrability issue, is for the court to decide as this
Court decided in First Options.
Here we do not have the unmistakably clear
language that the parties intended that the question of
arbitrability, itself, to be to the arbitrator. So the
court would decide if, in fact, the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Right, this is -- this is
-- actually now we are getting to the bottom of
something here, I think.
Now, I am beginning to understand where you
are coming from; and Volt does offer you considerable
support, as I -- as I agreed.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, Volt,
however, is a case, I take it, in which the stay that
was entered was a stay staying the arbitration pending
the resolution of a judicial dispute that was not
subject to arbitrability.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Therefore, it seems to me
that the question here concerns the meaning of this
contract, and that's where we started.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Does this contract mean
that the parties who entered have promised, one, not
themselves to go to court? Answer: Yes.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Two, not themselves to
bring a proceeding before this administrative agency?
And that's where he says yes, and you say no.
MR. BRUNSTAD: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: And then is the proper
resolution of that to say: Well, you can raise that,
too, before the arbitrator?
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why not?
MR. BRUNSTAD: And this goes to the Chief
Justice's initial question which I have been trying to
get to. And that is when the parties incorporated
California law, what did they incorporate?
Well, in Volt this Court answered: When
they incorporated California law, it was California law;
not California law with a gloss of Federal law, but
California law. And the California Supreme Court in the
Chronus case that we cite says exactly the same thing.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that a question of
contract interpretation --
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- for the arbitrator?
MR. BRUNSTAD: No.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why not?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Because that goes -- because
I think that this Court held that it to be no in Volt.
It said, look, where the -- because that goes to the
applicability, the validity, of the arbitration clause,
itself.
Here we don't have arbitrability, itself.
The First Options standard is not satisfied under this
case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't understand --
so you incorporate California law. I interpret that to
mean substantive law of California.
You say also incorporates -- and this is
what I find peculiar. California law gives you a
procedural right to go to the labor commission. But it
also gives you a procedural right to go to superior
court. And, yet, you acknowledge that the arbitration
agreement, when you say we will arbitrate, forecloses
your using the superior court.
Why doesn't it foreclose your using the
labor commissioner? I don't understand how you slice
the bologna that thin. To me, if it excludes California
procedures, it excludes both the labor commissioner and
the superior court.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Two reasons, Justice Scalia:
First, in the Buckeye case, for example, the
parties specifically selected as their choice of law the
Federal Arbitration Act. Here the parties selected
California law. This is no different than in Volt.
The second reason, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me -- I want to
understand that answer. California law includes the
Superior Court as much as it includes the labor
commissioner.
MR. BRUNSTAD: In Volt, Your Honor, the
specific law that was -- the Court said was selected was
Section 1281 of the California Code of Civil Procedure,
which applies in a California court favoring a court
proceeding because California has this rule that says if
you have arbitration and related litigation, you can
stay --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Related litigation with
someone other than the parties that you bound yourself
to arbitrate with. That involved Stanford and two
companies, Stanford suing two companies or -- in
litigation with two companies with whom it had no
arbitration agreement.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. But
here I think the Court has drawn the proper distinction
between, on the one hand, Volt and, on the other hand,
Doctor's Associates, Mastrobuono, Perry, Allied-Bruce,
all of those cases where the Court has said if it is an
arbitration negating rule, you don't incorporate it,
because that's fundamentally at war with the decision to
arbitrate.
But where it's merely an arbitration
postponing rule, which was the procedural issue in Volt
and the procedural issue here, then we respect that and
say that's not pre-empted, because it's not necessary to
pre-empt.
JUSTICE ALITO: How can we decide this case
on the assumption that this is simply an arbitration
postponing rule when there's no California case that
says that, do you acknowledge?
And a party resisting arbitration could well
argue that the California Code means that you go first
to the Labor Commissioner and then, as the statute says
explicitly, the parties are entitled to a de novo review
before the Superior Court without making any provision
for arbitration. Do you think it is inconceivable the
California courts could interpret the statute to mean
that, that there's no room for arbitration in the -- in
this scheme?
MR. BRUNSTAD: It is inconceivable,
Justice Alito, that the California court would say that
arbitration is not permissible in this case. The
California Supreme Court has reconciled previously in
the Aguilar case, which is 32 Cal. 4th 974. You had two
different provisions of law. One said you had
nonbinding arbitration for fee disputes between
attorneys, and the second was the California Arbitration
Act.
And the California Supreme Court said, as
this Court said, that it will indulge every intent to
give effect to such proceedings, the arbitration
proceedings, in Section 1281. It will harmonize the
statutes and say if you if you have a right to
arbitrate, we will respect that and we will harmonize
the laws so we respect that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So the California Supreme
Court would construct a system in which you get the
advice of this expert, the Labor Commissioner. One of
the parties thinks that this expert's advice is
ridiculous, just absolutely wrong.
Now, California law generally considers the
Superior Court smarter than the Labor Commissioner,
which is why you get de novo review before the Superior
Court.
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No?
MR. BRUNSTAD: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is stupider than the
Labor Commissioner.
(Laughter.)
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Scalia. It is
the California constitutional provision. Under
California's constitution, for better or worse, you
cannot have the Labor Commissioner --
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. I will amend
it. The California Superior Court is ex officio smarter
than the Labor Commissioner, okay? And yet, one of the
parties who thinks the Labor Commissioner is dead wrong
doesn't get a chance to have this advice corrected the
way the California constitution envisions, by the ex
officio smarter Superior Court.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that is the scheme that
the California Supreme Court is going to embed in
California law?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Justice Scalia, bankruptcy
courts cannot enter final decisions, yet we know that
they're expert in bankruptcy law, even though they're
subject to de novo review in the district court.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In this case, the Court of
Appeals, the majority said the fact that the losing
party will have a right to de novo hearing, involving
additional time and money, does not excuse the Defendant
from the legal requirement to exhaust his remedy. And I
think you're preserving the option to go to the Superior
Court, at least the contestability of the arbitration
clause.
MR. BRUNSTAD: But that's the case in every
Federal Arbitration Act case, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that, it seems to me,
makes incorrect your statement in your brief that, oh,
this is just for eight months, so that there's very
little additional time involved because of the de novo
hearing.
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Don't you think that your
statement at page 34 of the brief has to be qualified in
that respect?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Justice Kennedy, if we get to
the Superior Court -- the Labor Commissioner does her
work, and if the parties are not satisfied with it,
either of them has the right to go to the Superior Court
for a de novo hearing and file a motion to compel
arbitration. This would be no different than any other
Arbitration Act case where, when you get to the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you also have the
right to challenge what -- the accuracy of the Labor
Department's finding. That's what both -- all the
judges on the California court agreed with that. So I'm
asking, doesn't that make -- require qualification of
your statement at page 34 that these procedures are
expeditious and informal and do not entail additional
expense or delay? All of --
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Kennedy. Yes.
That is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That does require some
qualification there.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Kennedy, that
is -- that is factually accurate. That is a factually
accurate addition to what we said in our brief.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, do you --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Does it also
require some qualification in you brief where, at page
12, you say Preston clearly and repeatedly sought to
procure employment for Ferrer in the television
industry? Our rules say that you cannot raise matters
for the first time in this Court. And you have no
evidence on that point.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Justice Kennedy, we never got
to an evidentiary hearing in this case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I know you didn't, and
that's why I'm questioning why you put it in your brief.
Doesn't that require some qualification?
MR. BRUNSTAD: It is not in the record,
Justice Kennedy, because there is no factual record in
this case --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Therefore, don't make
factual averments here for the first time.
MR. BRUNSTAD: It's not for the first time,
Justice Kennedy. It was made all the way through the
proceedings below. We never got to an evidentiary
hearing. This case is still at the preliminary stages.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you think, in the
briefs to this Court, you can make factual statements
that are not in the record?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, Justice Kennedy, that
would mean we could make no factual statements to give
the Court any background at all. I think it is
undisputed; it isn't challenged by the other side.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think they do say that
it is disputed. They do dispute that he clearly and
repeatedly sought to procure employment for Ferrer.
That's the whole issue in the case.
MR. BRUNSTAD: It's undisputed, that Mr.
Preston went and arranged the meeting with Judge Ferrer
initially with the folks at ABC.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But they said it is --
they dispute that it is to procure employment.
MR. BRUNSTAD: I think, Justice Kennedy, I
will concede that it is not a matter of evidence, so
that qualification -- I will accept that
qualification --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In that light, on page
43, you say in this case, it is undisputed that Preston
was an unlicensed talent agent and that the contract he
drafted did not meet the requirements of Section 1700.
I thought it is very much disputed whether
he was a talent agent at all. I thought the position
was -- that your opponent is taking is that he was not a
talent agent, that he didn't come under the statute.
MR. BRUNSTAD: It is undisputed,
Justice Ginsburg, that Mr. Preston never had a license.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's not what you
said here. You say it is undisputed that Preston was an
unlicensed talent agent. That's your statement.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Our argument,
Justice Ginsburg, is that he was unlicensed but he was
operating as a talent agent under section -- under the
California Talent Agencies Act.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The latter is disputed.
The latter is vigorously disputed.
MR. BRUNSTAD: That is disputed, Justice
Scalia. And they have disputed that. But it is -- let
me qualify that then, Justice Ginsburg. It's undisputed
that he never had a license.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Could I ask one question
that I just want to be sure I understand your position?
If we had not granted cert, if you had gone to the
administrative agency and the agent had ruled against
you, what would you have next done?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Ruled against us? We would
have filed an appeal to the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: To the court?
MR. BRUNSTAD: To the court, correct. And
then there would have been a motion to compel for
arbitration. That --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That seems to me
completely inconsistent with your argument that
additional time was minimal. And if you have repeated
statements in your brief that require qualifications, if
in your former argument in Marshal, the Court is
concerned with the accuracy of one of your citations,
shouldn't we view with some skepticism what you tell us?
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Kennedy. I think
that all of our citations to the record and all of our
statements about the facts are, in fact, true.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What I just read you,
this one, you said it isn't. You say it is undisputed
that Preston was an unlicensed talent agent. And you
just admitted that that is disputed.
MR. BRUNSTAD: I'm sorry, forgive me,
Justice Ginsburg. It's undisputed that Mr. Preston
never had a license.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's not what you
represented.
MR. BRUNSTAD: It is disputed whether he was
acting as a talent agent or not. I wish to clarify
that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Schleimer, you
have nine minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH D. SCHLEIMER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SCHLEIMER: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
I would disagree that there wasn't an
evidentiary hearing. I don't think the evidence is
considered, but in addition to Mr. Preston's
declaration, I made an offer of proof which is in the
appellant's appendix at page 219. I offered to prove
that the Judge Alex television program is solicited and
procured by an agent of the William Morris Agency. I
had made two attempts to depose Judge Ferrer to prove
that, and I never got the chance. He didn't want to be
deposed.
So, there was a full evidentiary hearing.
The evidence just wasn't considered because the legal
standard that was applied was there's a colorable claim
under the Talent Agencies Act, so you can't arbitrate
until it's resolved.
Now I saw this as being a long trek through
the courts. I don't know when the arbitrator gets to
make his decision. If -- if the Labor Commissioner
rules that the contract is void and then we have a de
novo and the Superior Court does that, and the court of
appeal does it, and then the California Supreme Court
rules the contract is void, does the arbitrator get to
overrule that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Regardless of the -- I now
understand better than I did what I take as a pretty
strong argument. I'm not saying convincing, but strong.
And that would be this: If you go look at
Volt, and in Volt the Court said that the California
Code meant that the individual who'd entered into the
arbitration contract could go and can ask a superior
court to stay an arbitration while some unrelated --
some unrelated -- I mean directly related but not the
same parties -- litigation took place.
The Court didn't in Volt say that that
question of interpreting this contract is for the
arbitrator. I don't know why it didn't. But it didn't.
Now here he's making a parallel argument.
He's saying that the California Code says that people
should first go to that Labor Commissioner and that you
can stay arbitration while that goes on.
Now -- and I say well, why don't you go to
the arbitrator? He says I don't want to go to the
arbitrator on that one, but he points to Volt.
And so the puzzle is this: if the Court in
Volt didn't say this is a matter for the arbitrator,
whether the contract really means that you promise not
to go into court and make a motion to stay, why here is
it a matter for the arbitrator whether you implicitly
promised not to go into court and asked him to stay
pending the outcome of this administrative proceeding?
What do you think about that?
MR. SCHLEIMER: I certainly think that the
arbitrator had jurisdiction to arbitrate arbitrability.
And the reason for that is the Qualcomm case
and the Dream Theater case is a California case cited in
Qualcomm, and that the arbitrator should have decided
all these issues.
I would make this observation. If we -- if
we had gone to the arbitrator and Judge Ferrer had said
look, this contract is illegal, said you don't have
jurisdiction, and I want you to rule you don't have
jurisdiction, the same illegality issue would be a
defense on the merits.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I -- I accept that.
I see a lot of common sense on your side of it. But
imagine I'm writing an opinion in your favor and now I
come to the following paragraph which I have to write:
"Your opponent says that Volt controls here; but that is
wrong because" -- and now fill in the blank for me.
MR. SCHLEIMER: Assuming Volt --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, I'm just saying I have
to write. I see all the common sense of your position.
I -- absolutely. But to get -- you only need one really
good argument. And he's saying whatever the other ones
are, here Breyer or somebody is going to have to write
the words, and Volt is different because -- so I would
like some help on that one.
MR. SCHLEIMER: Because in Volt the contract
was silent, and the Federal Arbitration Act was silent
on the issue that was presented, and State law supplied
the answer. The California Arbitration Act has a number
of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's always the
case. It's always the case that the arbitration is
quiet on this. It is -- the Respondent's position is
that it is absolutely quiet, but it is also absolutely
clear that it is State law.
MR. SCHLEIMER: The contract here, I would
submit, Justice Kennedy, is not quiet because it says
that validity or legality shall be arbitrated. And
that's what we are talking about. So you don't have a
silent contract. You have a contract that speaks to
that question.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure that Volt
would have been different. Volt is -- Volt is written
very broadly, it seems to me, in favor of the
Respondent's position.
MR. SCHLEIMER: Volt was written under the
California Arbitration Act, and speaking as a California
practitioner that had had a lot of cases, you might
notice that the same section in Volt was the basis for
my motion to compel arbitration. See codicil procedure
CC P 1281.2. CC P 1281 is almost identical to Section 2
of the Federal Arbitration Act, but the California
Arbitration Act has a number of provisions where the
Federal Arbitration Act is silent. One of those is
dealing with multi-party litigation where parties are
not bound.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You think Volt would have
come out the same way if -- if in fact, all of the
parties in this other litigation had agreed to
arbitration? You have any doubt --
MR. SCHLEIMER: I think it would have come
out the other way, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah. I do, too.
MR. SCHLEIMER: That's what Volt was all
about, was the fact that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Writing broadly is known as
dictum, isn't it?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose if we write the
case your way, we have to talk about what happens if
this Labor Commissioner had enforcement powers, that
they had the sua sponte right to invoke, and that they
did?
MR. SCHLEIMER: I think the Labor
Commissioner probably does. I think it has to do with
the adjudicatory versus prosecutorial function of an
administrative agency.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this is not a
proceeding brought by the administrative agency.
MR. SCHLEIMER: No.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: An agency like the EEOC
Waffle House.
MR. SCHLEIMER: This is -- this is an --
this is an administrative agency providing an
adjudicatory forum.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is somebody who's
bound by arbitration invoking whatever authority the
Labor Commissioner has, quite different from the Labor
Commissioner commencing a proceeding.
MR. SCHLEIMER: Waffle House was all about
the prosecutorial or administrative power. This
is about the adjudicatory --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, your friend
says that this agency has exactly that power, and the
reason you required these things to go before her, is
that she knows what's going on in the area and, if
appropriate, can take the supervisory authority or
whatever the equivalent of prosecutorial action is.
MR. SCHLEIMER: I think I pointed out in my
papers that nothing stops Judge Ferrer from putting a
dime in the phone, calling the Labor Commissioner and
complaining, saying there's been illegality here. They
may request some evidence at that point. But the point
is that the prosecutorial discretion will be exercised
by the Labor Commissioner acting in an essentially
executive branch function.
Here in our case, all they did was supply a
hearing room and a hearing officer, an adjudicatory
function. That's what the arbitrator is supposed to do,
is adjudicate the case. That's the distinction. And I
see Gilmer as being a situation where there's an attempt
to avoid adjudicating in the agreed forum. And I see
Waffle House as saying that we're not going to hogtie
administrative agencies when they perform the
prosecutorial function, the administrative function.
I guess if there are no further questions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
22:7 59:2 appear 12:5 18:2,2,4,9,14
59:10 35:2 40:24 16:13 17:15 52:18 26:6,9,12,14
45:14 58:6 59:4,5 30:10,21 31:5 apples 26:2 28:15 29:18,19
admitted 51:24 31:6 38:23,25 applicability 29:24 30:21
advanced 26:4 43:17 applicable 37:22 32:12 33:8,25
adversary 7:1 19:23 39:9,13,19 35:1,3,4,9,18
44:9 46:8 Alex 1:6 52:19 applies 3:24 8:5 38:2,4,6,11,14
15:8 18:2 32:6 35:11 41:16,19 apply 4:2 13:22 39:10,13,16,17
21:7 affect 30:2 41:21 44:6,20 22:11 25:16,18 39:19 40:11
24:24 affirms 17:2 Allied-Bruce 33:7 41:25 42:12,23
35:3,5,18 agencies 21:7 43:21 appropriate 43:10,17,23
42:23 22:4,7 26:1 allow 11:23 12:4 58:12 44:1,7,10,15
47:3,19 50:18 53:2 12:15 arbitrability 44:17,21,25
53:2 59:4 allowed 16:3 8:23 10:1 39:3 45:1,5 46:25
56:12 agency 4:7 alternative 9:23 39:21,25 40:13 47:3,18,19
12:13 14:20 amend 46:4 42:2 54:16 51:10 53:18,19
58:20 51:3 52:20 answer 4:24 8:8,12,23 9:13 56:17,18,19,25
58:9 27:17 31:15 16:4 17:14 arbitrations
25:8,10,12 answered 41:11 36:2 42:13 6:6,7,15,15,16
47:7 51:3,23 52:6 anybody 19:15 53:2 54:16 10:3 11:23
51:13 52:20 28:20 arbitrated 3:20 14:9,16,18,20
agree 7:23 9:4 20:18 22:9 3:23 4:2,5 5:1 23:8,9,11
26:23 36:15,23 37:6 6:24 7:2,4,7,9 25:16,18 28:19
58:7 8:22 23:5 53:9 11:12 12:5 32:7 33:4,12
34:8 attempt 59:1 bind 30:7 2:5 21:2,3,5,21 9:5 10:1,6,7,8
39:3 attempted 12:1 binding 16:8 21:24 22:20,24 10:16,19,20,22
41:4,19 attempts 25:12 29:2,6 36:13 23:7,21 24:13 11:22 13:8
52:21 36:17,19 37:8 24:17,21 25:9 17:22 18:2
attend 12:11,20 bit 6:20 13:2 25:20 26:10,16 20:15,17 21:7
58:24 attorneys 45:1 blank 55:7 27:3,10,15,20 22:2,4,5,7,9,10
8:25 32:1 16:7,17 24:2 bologna 42:17 28:22 29:3,9 25:25 26:13
58:2,12 Bosch 15:6 29:15 30:6 27:5,7,11
7:19 40:3 32:8,11,18,22 31:3,13,19
3:3,6 8:9 awfully 12:9 56:21 58:2 35:11,16 36:10 36:23 37:1
21:3 a.m 1:13 3:2 branch 58:21 36:20,25 37:5 41:10,12,12,13
brand 22:19,20 37:14,21 38:3 41:14,14 42:6
51:12,15 B breach 7:23 38:10,17 39:1 42:7,9,17,24
53:14,25 back 23:22 breadth 19:5 39:14 40:8,14 43:2,7,8,9 44:8
24:19 31:2 Breyer 17:10 40:18,22 41:1 44:11,16,20,22
ball 26:25 30:12 31:6,10 46:11,15 47:2 54:18 55:19
46:15,17 40:2,8,9,15,19 48:18,23 49:3 California's
38:16 based 4:19 5:3 Breyer's 23:23 52:5 calling 58:16
9:9,10 12:12 brief 11:24 Buchwald 22:15 Cardegna 3:12
basis 8:13 56:14 38:18,20 39:8 20:7,11,13,17 3:24 4:3 8:18
38:1 believe 9:7 25:24 40:24 28:11 29:12,14
55:8 better 15:8 46:2 brought 5:2 6:5 California 3:13 41:15 42:4,21
48:19,25 27:25 41:15 11:19,24 12:1 31:25 contract 3:15,18
50:3 cited 8:18 27:10 12:4,8,10,16 completed 33:9 3:20,25 7:2,16
27:14 54:18 12:22,25 13:7 completely 7:23 8:3 9:18
57:10 citizens 3:25 13:21,25,25 51:12 17:12 18:21,24
59:8 civil 13:19 14:5 14:2,5,6,11,12 complicated 18:25 19:10
15:8 17:11,19 14:19,24 15:2 13:3 20:2,5,22
43:22 claim 53:1 16:19 17:5 24:6 39:7 40:17,19
claims 15:13 21:21 22:2,8 compromise 41:17 50:4
11:10 37:22 38:2,14 31:23 33:2,11 concerns 40:16 contradict 8:14
14:22 39:16,17,19 33:15,19 34:4 conclusive 29:13 contradicts
54:15 41:25 47:1 34:9,11,13,16 32:3 10:22
55:25 43:4 44:12 confiscation 22:3 24:3 26:5
48:13 49:15 46:3,6,7 47:14 conflict 10:14 53:14
10:4,15 code 4:20 13:20 58:4,16,20 considerable 34:12 38:15
12:3,14 43:7 44:11 commissioner's 15:8 40:6 40:14 51:8
20:24 53:17 54:1 4:11 6:9 13:18 consideration corrected 46:8
25:14 codicil 56:15 15:18 22:13 3:21 counsel 10:4
35:24 collecting 14:8 36:12 37:7 considered 13:7 11:21 21:1
38:15 colorable 53:1 38:12 52:16,25 48:10 59:7
48:10 come 26:2 50:9 common 55:3,10 considers 45:15 couple 19:17
58:8 55:5 56:23 companies consistent 10:7 course 3:23 7:24
57:1 43:15,15,16 35:3 10:18 16:12
10:5 18:21 19:15 7:7,9,11 22:11 16:10 34:20 court 1:1,12 3:9
coming 40:6 35:21 36:4,8 constitution 3:11,13 4:13
38:19 42:10 complaining 35:17 17:8,9,22 19:1
4:21 5:19,20 complaint 16:1 46:25 20:11 21:6,15
23:18,19 33:7,15 34:15 delays 4:10 distinguish 11:9 entail 48:1
27:11 35:10,13,14 delineate 21:25 district 46:18 enter 17:12
29:13,16 36:11 37:19 denied 5:3 23:9 Doctor's 43:21 30:21 46:16
44:13 45:17 Department's doing 12:8 14:8 entered 5:9
46:18,21 47:7 47:22 17:24 18:11,16 40:11,20 53:17
33:7 47:17 53:7 depose 52:21 36:14 entertainment
dead 46:7 deposed 52:23 doubly 19:2 15:7
35:1 dealing 19:12 deprived 12:22 doubt 56:25 entire 3:15 4:5
20:21 56:20 deregulating drafted 50:5 19:21 20:22
debatable 29:11 13:16 drawn 43:19 entirely 13:17
December 20:12 despite 20:8 Dream 54:18 entitled 44:13
decide 11:2 destroys 26:9 driving 19:7 envisions 46:9
39:4,10 14:10 16:14 determination D.C 1:8 equivalent
40:1 17:23 24:3 6:1 58:13
41:11,14 25:16 26:5 determined 5:19 E ERIC 1:17 2:5
42:12,14 27:23 39:3,4 5:21 E 1:6 2:1 3:1,1 21:3
43:3,6,8 39:11,21 40:1 determines EEOC 57:21 Erickson 20:16
44:6 38:24 39:12 effect 7:12 8:4,7 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3
decided 3:13 deterrent 25:25 27:8 29:23 2:5,8
9:20 20:11 develop 25:6 45:5 essentially 58:20
46:5,10 35:12 39:22 dictum 57:7 effectively 5:22 estoppel 29:18
54:19 difference 23:20 effects 29:18 everybody 14:6
decides 19:23 different 11:7 effectuating 21:13
49:8,12 31:1 29:12 31:17 11:1 evidence 9:2
53:8 decision 3:11,14 42:24 44:24 efficiency 11:14 48:17 49:24
4:3,11 6:17 47:18 55:14 eight 24:15 47:6 52:15,25 58:18
54:7,10 8:19 9:1,1,9,9 56:8 58:3 either 22:8 evidentiary
14:24 15:16,18 difficult 23:18 32:24 33:12,22 48:19 49:5
44:16 32:6 34:15 directly 53:20 47:16 ex 46:5,9
53:5 36:12 37:15 disagree 52:14 eliminate 4:9 exactly 6:4
declaration 26:1 30:22 24:25 25:11,12 42:21
52:10 15:21 50:20,21,22 15:17 excludes 42:17
23:10 Defendant disputes 7:17 17:19 exclusion 10:16
6:2 15:15 deferential 17:4 30:16 44:25 26:17 executed 38:22
17:3,4,9 delay 48:2 distinction enjoin 34:10 38:25 39:9,12
23:17,23 delayed 30:25 43:19 58:25 enjoined 5:10 executive 58:21
favor 10:2 28:11 folks 49:20 gives 42:9,11 great 25:24 26:7
favoring 43:8 foreclose 42:15 7:3 15:14 17:3 37:25
10:17,25 18:1 forum 57:25 27:22,24 28:19
21:18 30:23 forward 28:12 31:2 32:20 hand 43:20,20
41:13 42:23 fraud 20:20 33:14,16,20,23 20:18
23:13,16 56:17,19 39:17 35:9,20 36:3,7 hands 30:8 32:1
45:12 fee 44:25 friend 4:9 22:19 36:7,8 37:19 32:2
Ferrer 1:6 3:4 58:8 37:22 38:3,11 happen 6:21
15:24 16:1 function 57:16 40:21 42:10,11 happened 22:16
file 7:24 11:24 43:24 58:10 harmonize 45:6
47:17 20:24 27:22,24 36:6 38:10 Hartford 1:17
fill 55:7 G going 6:10,25 15:13 23:11
find 5:5 25:23 generally 45:15 24:24,24 28:4 22:13 23:10
32:3 42:9 Gilmer 59:1 39:11 46:13 48:19 49:6
46:20 finding 47:22 Ginsburg 6:22 55:13 58:11 52:15,24 58:23
56:23 fine 6:14 7:6 14:9,17 59:3 58:23
finished 35:8 20:7 28:1,14 good 14:18 hears 4:22
15:24 17:23 38:17 39:5,15 governed 32:16 helped 17:24
43:5 incorporate interpreted 10:7 21:18,19 31:1 32:19,23 33:3
59:3 42:6 43:23 intervene 12:16 judges 30:15,18 34:19,21,23
31:9 41:9,12 13:21 29:1,5 30:2 37:4,10,17,21
incorporates invalid 35:23 judicata/collat... 38:1,5,15,17
42:8 39:16 29:17 39:5,15 40:2,8
11:7 invoke 28:9 6:10 8:6 9:2,9 43:18 44:6,20
individual 53:17 invoking 28:3 54:16,24,25 45:25 46:4,11
24:8 20:20 involved 29:1 4:19 47:3,4,9,10,13
55:4 indulge 45:4 43:14 47:7 jurisprudence 47:20 48:3,5,7
28:4 inefficient 6:8 28:1,5 Justice 3:3,9 4:8 48:24 49:1,4,7
informing 26:8 28:14,18 46:21 6:22 7:6,15,22 50:2,11,12,16
initially 23:8 15:10 10:4,15,21 51:7,11,18,21
54:11 injunction 5:7 9:16,17 11:3 12:14,24 13:4 53:12 55:2,9
5:18 6:7,14,18 44:2,3 49:17 15:14,19 16:6 56:22 57:3,6,9
integrity 23:15 J 21:5,11,22,25 Kennedy 5:5,23
intended 39:24 January 1:9 23:4,14,21,23 12:24 13:4
28:22 29:6 learns 25:5 man 21:20 Morris 52:20
31:18,21,22 left 4:3 manager 12:13 motion 4:25 5:3
38:1 33:1,11,15,18 legal 12:12 13:10 6:5 7:7,9,9,11
46:19 34:4,9,11,13 17:16 46:23 managers 13:16 13:1,1 22:11
34:16 35:8 52:25 mandamus 7:13 23:7 35:21
48:3,5,7 36:1,12 37:6 legality 3:15,20 Marshal 51:15 36:3,8,15 37:9
38:7,10,12,19 8:12 20:22 Mastrobuono 38:21 39:11
42:10,16,18 56:3 43:21 47:17 51:9
51:11 43:3 44:12 legislature matter 1:11 54:10 56:15
55:21 45:12,16,23 13:13,15 11:16 21:19,23 motions 7:8
57:9 46:3,6,7 47:14 let's 9:2 38:1 24:10,18 49:24 move 15:12 37:2
54:2 57:11,14 52:2 matters 48:15 11:16,18
12:2 39:15,24 limits 3:16 10:21,23 18:7 56:20
17:10,18 lasts 5:15 litigate 20:4 30:13 40:19 mystery 39:6
18:10 Laughter 20:6 litigation 11:8 42:7 44:16
30:13 45:24 57:8 11:16,18 28:6 49:11 53:20 N
32:9 law 4:4 8:4,5,5 28:12,14 29:16 meaning 5:17 N 2:1,1 3:1
46:16 8:16,17,20,20 29:17,23,25 9:19 40:16 necessary 44:4
53:5,24 8:24,25 9:3,5 30:1,4,5 32:3 means 18:24 need 23:5 55:11
10:7,8,8,8,12 43:16 53:21 26:8 44:11 negating 43:23
58:11 13:8 17:25 13:2 19:16 53:17 10:5 12:7,22
20:3 47:7 meet 8:22 50:5 16:3 22:21,24
25:6,17,18 look 9:8 35:20 mere 4:6 50:11,24 52:2
7:3 27:5 28:25 41:24 53:15 merely 21:9 52:22
11:19 30:11,12 32:14 54:23 24:4 26:5 44:1 new 4:13 22:19
12:4 32:17 33:1,10 looking 38:17 merits 55:1 22:20
33:11 41:10,12 looming 6:18 mind 19:15 nine 3:12 52:9
13:7,18 41:12,13,13,14 losing 46:20 24:20 31:10 nodding 21:13
42:6,7,9,22,24 lot 8:17 55:3 minimal 51:13 Nokia 8:19
43:2,6 44:24 56:13 minutes 52:9 nonbinding
15:2 45:15 46:14,17 lower 38:13 mistaken 36:21 44:25
55:18,25 moment 8:15 non-parties 30:5
17:5 laws 8:17 45:9 M 14:25 non-party 29:25
22:2,8 lawsuit 11:20 M 1:3 Monday 1:9 30:1
23:2 17:21 magical 4:17 money 46:22 Normally 25:14
lawsuits 11:13 majority 46:20 months 3:12 notice 12:20
lawyer 15:7 making 17:22 24:13,15 26:14 36:15 56:14
lawyers 10:11 17:22 44:14 47:6 novo 4:10,13,15
27:8 28:4 15:9 53:25 moot 6:17 4:18,22 6:2
17:3 order 5:5,6,9,12 penumbra 14:1 26:6 price 20:19
22:13 15:16,20,21 people 15:13 postponing Prima 20:16,20
33:7 16:10 37:12 25:25 29:14 28:11 31:25 privately 11:2
34:15 outcome 29:22 54:1 44:2,8 probably 14:2
54:13 perform 59:4 power 13:8,18 26:22 57:15
37:19 overrule 53:11 performance 14:23 24:3,5 problem 11:22
45:17 7:25 58:6,9 12:18 30:14
47:7 P permanent 5:22 powers 13:19,21 34:2
53:8 P 3:1 56:16,16 permissible 57:11 procedural
47:11,25 48:12 Perry 43:21 56:13 44:2,3
52:18 person 15:21 precedent 27:9 procedure 22:1
54:21 7:19,24 53:25 person's 32:10 16:12 47:25
parties 3:22 52:11 preserving 7:20,24 11:15
18:17 25:24 piece 28:18 48:13 49:19 36:12 40:24
26:12 29:4 30:4,7,9 please 3:9 21:6 51:23 52:1 57:19 58:4
36:18,18 31:4,12 32:13 point 5:25 6:13 Preston's 52:16 proceedings 6:8
35:9 36:10 10:2 12:23 pretty 15:11 12:25 18:14
40:20 41:9 48:17 58:18,18 prevails 16:16 37:8
44:13 45:13 points 26:25 prevent 24:9 25:10,12 48:14
37:12,14 53:21 56:20,24 position 16:11 44:22 procured 52:20
55:6 party 19:23 22:8 16:24 17:7,8 pre-approval procuring 13:10
28:21 30:3 23:15 33:6 pre-dispute promise 17:14
46:24 party's 30:2 50:7 51:1 pre-empt 44:5 promised 40:20
42:3 peculiar 42:9 positive 18:15 10:20 44:4 proof 52:17
40:11 54:13 postpones 21:9 27:16 43:19
58:6,13 quite 3:19 31:7 remanded 9:24 responding 21:15,17,20
59:5 58:3 remanding 10:3 27:20 running 19:10
17:13 48:15 render 14:24 33:7 34:15 saw 53:4
33:7 read 20:19,22 repealing 13:14 35:10 37:19 saying 8:13 9:1
46:1 31:6 51:21 repeated 51:13 44:13 45:17 36:22 53:14
44:24 really 3:24 48:13 49:16 ridiculous 45:14 58:17 59:3
13:24 17:24 represented right 6:23 12:12 says 4:9,22 5:6
reconsideration 46:23 road 26:13 56:2 58:9
48:6,12 reconsidered 50:5 4:23 10:4,15 10:21 18:15,20
49:25 23:10 requires 12:20 11:21 12:3,14 18:23 20:2
record 5:6 48:23 33:1 15:3 21:1 22:18,21 24:7
51:19 reserve 20:25 37:10 38:16 25:7,10 29:1,4
9:5,18 10:3 10:12 resolved 24:10 room 44:17 36:24 37:4
Regardless 53:3 58:23 42:5,20,25
23:23 53:12 respect 44:3 rule 8:20 31:25 43:1 45:10,19
33:4,14 regulated 12:13 45:8,9 47:12 43:9,23 44:2,8 45:20,22,25
38:16 regulatory 24:6 responded 54:24 46:4,11,12,15
40:16 rehearing 17:6 13:13 ruled 51:3,5 50:19,22 56:22
50:25 rejected 9:23 Respondent rules 6:12 7:18 57:3,6
56:6 related 29:16 1:18 2:6 4:17 8:21 19:3 Scalia's 8:2
relied 20:15 16:16,18,20 39:7 48:15 27:8 44:18
3:5,6,8 33:22,22 49:13 standing 4:3 submit 25:1 51:1 56:7
5:2,13 6:3 55:3 Stanford 43:14 56:2 suspiciously
8:10 9:7 sides 4:14 43:15 submitted 59:8 17:13
10:11,18 silent 55:17,17 start 26:12 59:10 sweeping 11:5
11:10,25 56:5,19 started 40:17 subsequent 30:8 synonymous
13:2,6 silly 33:19 34:14 starts 34:16 substantive 42:7 31:23
15:6 simply 4:10 6:14 state 4:4 5:14 substituting system 23:16
16:11 12:20 17:5 10:13 18:18 31:18,19 24:8,20,23
18:1 28:10 39:15 21:18 23:16,17 successful 37:11 27:1 45:11
44:7 28:25,25 29:16 suck 32:19
Sinnamon 23:24 55:18,25 suing 43:15 T
52:8,10 situation 14:4 statement 47:5 superior 4:15,22 T 2:1,1
54:15 20:21 59:1 47:11,25 50:14 5:8 6:2 11:19 take 8:7 14:1,17
56:1 skepticism statements 49:8 15:14,15,24 22:9,18,22
57:1,4 51:17 49:11 51:14,20 16:7,13,16,21 24:11 36:14,22
slice 42:16 states 1:1,12 17:3,9,21 37:6 40:10
smarter 45:16 3:19 4:1 5:13 20:11 21:18 53:13 58:12
42:25 soliciting 13:10 statutes 4:5 34:9,14 35:1 15:22 16:3
somebody 55:13 13:19,22 14:2 35:10,15 36:3 21:7,20 22:4,7
35:3,18 sorry 13:4 36:21 stay 6:11 18:13 37:11,19 38:9 25:12 26:1
37:1 51:25 23:9 33:8,25 38:20 39:10 31:20 50:4,7,9
45:6 50:5 sort 13:23 35:1 37:20 42:11,14,19 50:14,17,18
56:14,16 sought 16:1,5 40:10,11 43:11 43:3 44:14 51:23 52:6
55:3,10 Souter 8:1,10 stayed 5:10 38:6 47:16 53:8,18 talked 15:1
59:1,2 9:4 26:7,11,16 38:8,8 supervisory talking 56:4
43:6 Souter's 27:18 Stevens 22:6 supply 58:22 television 48:14
14:14,25 specific 7:25 stops 17:24 33:18 57:9 telling 37:17
33:24 10:23 43:6 18:11,16 58:15 supposed 22:1,2 term 5:11
specifically 3:19 strong 53:14,14 25:1,3,5 28:23 terms 11:14
35:11 42:22 stuck 7:2 Supreme 1:1,12 tested 37:24
stages 49:6 Styne 22:6 41:14 44:22 52:12 59:7
41:15 trying 41:8 view 51:17 Washington 1:8
37:6 two 3:10 4:1 7:8 50:20 30:3 52:14,25 Yeah 57:3
8:11 28:8 violating 25:25 way 6:15 11:9 years 3:10 12:7
9:14,23 43:14,15,16 void 16:2 53:7 34:24 35:7
11:6,8 44:23 52:21 53:10 39:8,20 46:9 0
14:1 types 25:15 Volt 9:7,10,22 49:4 56:23 06-1463 1:5 3:4
15:1 16:6 11:4,9,11,15 57:2,10
17:20 U 27:11,21,25 welcome 12:11 1
19:2,7 undermine 28:1,5,9,10 went 29:16 10 36:1
19:10 29:15 40:6,9 49:19 11:06 1:13 3:2
23:22 understand 31:8 41:11,23 42:24 we'll 3:3 6:14 12 26:14 48:13
30:15 33:5 40:5 42:5 43:5,20 44:2 18:23,24 12:06 59:9
33:20 42:16 43:2 53:16,16,22 we're 9:13 59:3 1281 35:18 37:1
40:4 51:1 53:13 54:6,8 55:6,8 wholesale 8:16 43:7 45:6
43:19 understood 10:5 55:14,16 56:7 William 52:20 56:16
46:24 undisputed 56:8,8,11,14 wind 10:13 1281.2 56:16
49:7,12 49:13,18 50:3 56:22 57:4 15:12 13 38:20
51:18 50:10,13,23 voluntarily window 18:9 14 1:9
54:14,15 51:22 52:1 36:11 wish 52:6 1700 50:5
57:1,14 undoubtedly withdrawn 6:14 1700.44 4:20 5:4
58:14 14:23 W won 36:6 1700.45 12:6
45:13 words 7:1 17:4
50:14,16 51:23 wage 13:22 31:18,19,20 2 35:3,19 56:16
39:2,23 wages 14:8 work 22:1 47:15 2005 20:12
31:16 53:20 wait 12:15 14:11 26:1 35:7 2008 1:9
50:6,7 unusual 6:21 14:23 29:13 worse 46:2 21 2:6
46:22 write 55:5,10,13 32 15:6 44:23
48:16 valid 24:21 9:25 18:10 57:9
38:2,14 19:20 24:7 34 47:11,25
51:13 writing 55:4
39:18 52:22 54:5,24 wrong 29:21
24:13 26:14
44:23
