IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
THE PERMANENT MISSION OF :
INDIA TO THE UNITED :
NATIONS, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 06-134
CITY OF NEW YORK, NEW :
YORK. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 24, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JOHN J.P. HOWLEY, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of
Petitioners.
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioners.
MICHAEL A. CARDOZO, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JOHN J.P. HOWLEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting Petitioners 18
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL A. CARDOZO, ESQ.
On behalf of Respondent 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN J.P. HOWLEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
[10:02 a.m.]
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in case 06-134, The Permanent Mission
of India to the United Nations et al. vs. The City of
New York.
Mr. Howley.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J.P. HOWLEY,
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS
MR. HOWLEY: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court.
These are tax enforcement lawsuits. If
jurisdiction existed, the only issue a court would
decide is whether a tax is owed. This type of case did
not fall within any real property exception to sovereign
immunity before Congress passed the Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act and Section 1605(a)(4) of that act did
not create a new exception where none had otherwise
existed. Congress chose --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course you could say the
same thing if the mission here sold its property to
someone and someone was claiming the right to possess
the property by reason of the sale. And you could come
up and say this is simply, simply a case deciding the,
the ultimate issue of whether the sale occurred or not.
MR. HOWLEY: Uh --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it would clearly come
within the property right exception, wouldn't it? You
-- you don't go one step back to look at the transaction
that created the, the right in real property assuming
the right in real property exists.
MR. HOWLEY: Actually, Justice Scalia, I
believe that if you had a dispute over what happened
with the sale of property that it would fall within the
based upon commercial activities exception in
1605(a)(2).
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's assume that, let's
assume that exception didn't exist.
MR. HOWLEY: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you had nothing but the
real estate exception. You would come in and say this
ultimately relates to not who owns the real estate but
whether there was a proper contract or not. And I --
frankly we wouldn't accept that.
MR. HOWLEY: No. And I think that's a very
different case from what we have here because in that
case the issue for the Court to decide is which of the
parties has the right, has the title in the real
property. That is not in issue here. The City of New
York does not seek title in this property. Their action
is to declare the validity of a tax lien and the issue
in an action to declare the validity of a tax lien is
whether the tax is owed and whether it has been paid.
That is the issue that's presented to the Court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what New York is
seeking is an interest in land and a lien is an interest
in the land. It runs with the land, doesn't it?
MR. HOWLEY: I -- I -- yes. I acknowledge
that there are some similarities between a lien and a
right in property. For example, that it runs with the
land. But there are dissimilarities that are far more
numerous and far more significant. Unlike rights and
property a lien does not give the lien holder any right
to own, access, possess, cross over, collect rents from,
exclude or any other right in the property.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can't he force a sale of
the property to collect the lien?
MR. HOWLEY: This action does not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that this
action does not because of the sovereign immunity. But
-- but we are talking about what the nature of a lien
is. In an ordinary case cannot a lien holder force a
sale of the property so that he can get out the money
represented by his lien?
MR. HOWLEY: Yes. If the lien holder
commences an action to foreclose on the property, then a
consequence of that could be the sale of the property.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, how can he commence
an action to foreclose on the property unless he in any
ordinary sense of the term has an interest in the
property?
MR. HOWLEY: I do not dispute that a lien
holder has an interest, a security interest in the
property. But Congress did not write in Section
1605(a)(4) all interests that are in issue in property.
Congress in fact had the European Convention in front of
it which said rights, interests and obligations in
property. Congress chose language from the European
Convention elsewhere but did not choose that language
here. Congress said only rights in property.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're distinguishing
between rights in property and interests in property? I
would think that every right in property is an interest
in property and vice versa.
MR. HOWLEY: No. I do not believe so,
Justice Scalia. There -- there -- there has to be a
reason why Congress chose language verbatim from the
European Convention in other sections of the statute
such as the counterclaim exception, but in this
exception said we are not taking interest and
obligations from the European Convention, we are only
saying rights. And this Court --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The counterclaim sounds
to me very much like it comes straight out of the
Federal Rules, not out of any convention. It's the same
transaction and occurrence, right?
MR. HOWLEY: Yes. Yes. The, the
counterclaim exception --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, that's exactly what
it says in the Federal Rules about compulsory --
MR. HOWLEY: Yes, but Congress said, in the
House report Congress refers to the European Convention
as the source for the counterclaim exception in the
Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act so Congress said we are
taking this from the European Convention. This -- this
language also --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Congress didn't really say
it. I mean the committee said it to be precise.
MR. HOWLEY: Yes, that's absolutely correct,
Justice.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Good.
JUSTICE BREYER: What was your distinction
between a mortgage and a tax lien?
MR. HOWLEY: I don't think there is a
distinguished, a distinction between a mortgage and a
tax lien.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, so think they can't
enforce mortgage under this? That is to say the bank
can't; it's not an interest of property in mortgage?
MR. HOWLEY: No. But Congress, Congress
passed another exception here, 1605(a)(2) that said
actions based upon commercial activity provide an
exception to sovereign immunity and these exceptions
have to be read together. They have to be read --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's, that's where it's
hard for me because a purchase money mortgage, you sell
the real estate. Ordinary secured interest in mortgage
is secured interest by a lender is normally viewed as an
interest in property, I think. I mean is there, is
there any law anywhere that says that isn't an interest
in property?
MR. HOWLEY: Well, actually there is. In
the, in -- when the United States waived immunity from
suit concerning real property it limited its waivers to
liens and mortgages and not rights in property. And so
there has been distinctions made between mortgage liens
and liens on the one hand and rights in property on the
other.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, on that point in
some jurisdictions and perhaps you can tell me about New
York, I had thought and correct me if I'm wrong, that
tax liens have a superior status to other liens in that
they are an, an interest or an estate in the property as
opposed to an attachment.
Is it not true? And I don't, and I'm not
talking just about order of priority for creditors. I'm
talking about the superiority insofar as being or not
being an interest in property.
MR. HOWLEY: Well, yes. It is superior to
other types of liens.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. HOWLEY: It is an interest, a security
interest in the property, but it is not a right in the
estate of the property, and it doesn't give any type of
the possession and ownership rights that every other
right in property gives.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there New York law to
that effect?
MR. HOWLEY: Yes, there is. And we have
cited it in our brief. The Respondent has attempted to
distinguish it, because a Court of Claims jurisdictional
act was passed that deemed a lien an interest in
property for purposes of jurisdiction in the New York
Court of Claims but the essential nature of a lien is
not, under New York law, a right in the estate.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because I had -- I had
thought that it is an estate in land in at least some
jurisdictions. And Justice Breyer was asking about the
same thing. In other words, there are liens -- there
are liens and liens. There are different kinds of
liens.
MR. HOWLEY: There appears to be in
different jurisdictions, different treatments of liens.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that brings up
the basic question I have, is this a question of State
law or Federal law?
MR. HOWLEY: This is a question of Federal
law. This Court has held --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So even if you have
different rules in different States, there is going to
be one rule under Federal law under 1605(a)(4)?
MR. HOWLEY: Yes, that is correct, Mr. Chief
Justice. And this Court held in Saudi Arabia against
Nelson and Argentina against Weltover that the exception
language -- they are dealing with the commercial
activities exception -- must have the meaning that
Congress understood the restrictive theory of sovereign
immunity to require at the time it passed the statute.
And so when defining what a right in
immovable property in issue means, we have to give that
the meaning that the restrictive theory of sovereign
immunity required at the time in 1976. And in 1976, no
court here in the United States or anywhere in the world
had held that sovereign immunity was abrogated merely by
having a statutory lien on the property.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Had the State Department
taken a position at that point, at the time the Act was
passed?
MR. HOWLEY: There is -- not to my
knowledge. There is vague language in the testimony in
the House report, general language about 1605(a)(4)
relating to real property disputes, but there is not
precise language about whether liens are or liens are
not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was nothing vague
about the State Department's brief in the Englewood
case.
MR. HOWLEY: No, there is not, Justice
Ginsburg. But they lost in Englewood. They lost and
the Englewood Court relied on a D.C. Circuit decision.
And I believe that the Solicitor General will say that
they have reconsidered their position, they have
reconsidered Article 29 of the European Convention,
which they relied on heavily in the Englewood brief.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But anyway, at a time
closer to the passage of the Act, the State Department
was taking the position that a lien was an interest in
land.
MR. HOWLEY: Yes, that is correct. But they
have since decided that that position was wrong.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they just may
be more sympathetic to India and Mongolia than they were
to Libya.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not beyond the realm
of the conceivable, is it?
MR. HOWLEY: It's not beyond the realm of
the conceivable.
JUSTICE BREYER: But I take it there has
never been a case in the history of the world you'll
tell me where a lender or bank or anybody who loaned
money to build an embassy has ever brought a case
against the owner of the embassy, the sovereign, and won
under anything like this exception, because they can't
sue them.
MR. HOWLEY: Not that we're aware of, and
not that we've seen --
JUSTICE BREYER: Ever. And there is none
the other way, where they said you couldn't sue them.
MR. HOWLEY: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So why do people
lend money to build embassies?
MR. HOWLEY: Well, because once you lend
money and you engage in commercial activity, if the
claim is based upon the commercial activity, Congress
had provided a separate section, 1605(a)(2) that
protects the American citizen who has lent money to an
embassy.
JUSTICE BREYER: And how did it work before
1605 was passed, how did they used to build, in the 19th
century, embassies, if you know.
MR. HOWLEY: I don't know about 19th century
embassies. I do know that since the Tate letter, which
predates the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, there has
been a commercial activity exception here in the United
States.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why isn't buying land that
you're not using for your embassy itself, or for the
residence of the ambassador, but buying and occupying
that land which subjects yourself to real estate taxes
on that land, why isn't that a commercial activity?
MR. HOWLEY: Well, this Court held in Saudi
Arabia against Nelson that it's not just engaged in,
related to commercial activity, but the cause of action,
the claim has to be based upon commercial activity.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So the Indian embassy could
own real estate throughout New York City, which it
wouldn't have to pay taxes on? Or if it didn't, nothing
could be done about it?
MR. HOWLEY: It depends on the use they put
that property to.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? No. You're saying,
you're saying it's not a commercial activity. I mean --
MR. HOWLEY: The mere ownership of the land
is not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It depends upon the use,
and the use in this case is not -- is not the embassy
itself or the residence of the ambassador. I mean, they
could use a piece of property for anything.
MR. HOWLEY: As long as it's not commercial
activity, it would not be taxed and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the buying and
occupying of it is commercial activity.
MR. HOWLEY: Well, the buying of it, if the
claim is based upon the buying of the property, under
Saudi Arabia against Nelson, then the commercial
activities exception would apply. But the mere
ownership of the property is not commercial activity.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why isn't it commercial
activity for New York to say, we provide garbage
services, electric services, et cetera.
MR. HOWLEY: Well, separate and apart from
the jurisdictional issue, the Vienna Conventions do say
that if there are fees for services provided, such as
garbage collection, water, those types of services, then
there is no immunity from the fees for those services.
And those fees should be paid. The separate issue of
whether that's commercial activity, it may be. It
doesn't matter whether the city provides a service such
as water, or a private entity provides a service such as
water. That may be commercial activity.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But they pay fees and New
York taxes. Suppose New York doesn't have fees.
Suppose they say, we'll just do this out of our property
tax.
MR. HOWLEY: Well, no, that does not -- on
the substantive issue of whether it's immune under the
Foreign -- under the Vienna Conventions, a tax is
immune. They are immune from a tax, but they're not
immune for a fee for service. That is how the Vienna
Conventions --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And in reality, you will
never get there, because the Vienna Convention deals
with the substantive liability -- you're talking about
jurisdiction. On your theory, you would never get to
the fee for picking up the garbage, because you wouldn't
have any jurisdiction.
MR. HOWLEY: No, Justice Ginsburg, not at
all. That's not my position. Let me make my position
clear. If there is a fee for service provided, such as
garbage collection, or provision of water, that would
fall under the commercial activities exception. But if
there is a tax, unless the activity at issue and the
cause of action at issue is based upon the commercial
activity, there is no jurisdiction. This does not mean
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The commercial activity,
it's applied to that same building that you say can't
be -- it can't be any suit for taxes.
MR. HOWLEY: Yes. There cannot be a suit
for taxes. There could be a suit for specific fees for
services rendered. But --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even -- even if this, the
building were only the mission and the representative,
the minister to the U.N., even then --
MR. HOWLEY: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- the water of a
municipal service, garbage collection, could be charged.
MR. BAKER: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, just as
if the Indian mission went out to a private water
company and said, please supply me with water, the
private water company could sue, based on commercial
activity, to collect for the water it had provided. It
doesn't matter if it's the city.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, it's the city. Not
a private company, the city itself.
MR. HOWLEY: The nature of the activity
doesn't change just because it's the city providing the
water as opposed to a private entity providing the
water. We have to look at the nature of the activity.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, this isn't a
suit for the taxes. I mean, we are not talking about a
suit for the taxes.
MR. HOWLEY: We are here --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We are talking about a
declaration as to the interest in the land.
MR. HOWLEY: No. No, Justice Scalia.
Absolutely not. Joint Appendix page 78 is the city's
amended complaint. And even in their foreclosure claim,
even in their foreclosure claim, what they ask is for a
judgment of foreclosure directing that the Defendant pay
the amount of taxes, interest and other charges due.
They are not asking for an interest in the property.
All this case is about is money. It's not
about rights in the property. And there is a very big
problem with allowing a claim for money to become a
right in property merely by having a local law passed
that converts the claim into a lien. The City of New
York tomorrow could pass a law that said, if you don't
pay your parking tickets, that is automatically
converted into a lien on the property. And then while
we can't sue you for the parking tickets, we have
created a right in your property.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You could easily say
there has to be a relationship to the property itself.
MR. HOWLEY: Well, that's not -- that's not
what the City's position is. The City's position is a
lien is an interest in property and falls within the
statute. And Congress didn't write in the statute
arising out of, related to. It said, rights in the
property are an issue. So if under the City's theory,
if they passed a lien law tomorrow converting all
parking tickets into liens on property, then their
position is they could sue us for parking tickets. And
if there are no further questions, I will reserve the
rest of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Howley.
Mr. Srinivasan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING PETITIONERS
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
An action to determine whether property
taxes are owed is not a case in which rights of
immovable property are an issue, and it's not
transformed into such a case by attaching a lien, and
recharacterizing the case as one to determine the
validity of the lien.
And I'd like to begin by picking up, Justice
Ginsburg, on the question you just asked, because I
think it's very important to emphasize that under
Respondent's lien-based theory, that theory has the
potential largely to eviscerate the other exceptions in
the FSIA in the following sense: Respondent's theory
doesn't turn in any way on the nature or source of the
debt that's secured by the lien.
So under Respondent's view, the fact that
this case involves a debt that arises out of property
taxes is largely beside the point. The load bearing
weight of that theory rests entirely on the supposed
effects of the lien on the property. And so for
example, you could have a case in which a commercial
activity is brought into play, where the plaintiff sues
a foreign sovereign for commercial activity that occurs
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's always brought up to
answer the problem, well, you know -- let me give you a
case in which it obviously is not a commercial activity,
but it seems to me that the -- that the lien interest
has to be honored. Let's suppose that there is an
American who is very friendly to and sympathetic with
the Indian government, and gives them real estate, not a
commercial activity, he gives them real estate in which
to house the employees in -- in their mission.
However, he retains an interest in that real
estate. He retains a lien on the real estate, to have
money paid to him at some point. He is not willing to
give the full amount of the property, but most of it.
And he retains a lien. Now, under your theory, that
lien would not be enforceable, is that right?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, the lien wouldn't
constitute a right in the property, and that's
consistent with what -- the way this Court has always
described liens. As we point out in pages 21 and 22 of
our brief, the Court has said --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Enforceable or not.
MR. SRINIVASAN: The lien would not be
enforceable against a foreign sovereign, because -- at
least with respect to the immovable property.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That seems very strange to
me.
MR. SRINIVASAN: We are only talking about
the immovable property exception. And with respect to
that exception, this Court has expounded that a lien on
land constitutes no property or right in the land
itself. And it said that on more than one occasion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought that the
Department submitted a good brief on this issue, but in
1985. What do you do with all the arguments -- I'm
looking at page 12 of your brief in the Englewood case,
which you argued that these liens were interests in
property. Are those arguments no longer valid?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, we, of course,
reviewed our position in that case, and we have come to
the conclusion that it was incorrect. And in the
Englewood case, that argument was the third argument in
the brief. The first two arguments in the brief were
more along the lines of the Court of Appeals decision.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what about the
argument that it was an interest in property. The brief
was very clear that it is an interest in property, and
that a tax lien is almost sui generis, in that it is an
estate in the property.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I don't --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It survives bona fide --
it survives bona fide purchaser without notice?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The other reasons
you gave, the holder of a lien can bring an action to
enjoin waste, holders of liens are entitled to
compensation if eminent domain is exercised. All of
those reasons are still as valid as they were in 1985.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, let me try to take up
some of those in order. First with respect to the
question of whether holders of a lien are entitled to
compensation in eminent domain, we don't take issue with
the proposition that a lien is property. A lien is
property, but the question under the statute is whether
a lien confers a right in the underlying immovable
property. And so in an eminent domain proceeding it may
just be that just compensation is owed to a lien holder
because to the extent that the eminent domain proceeding
takes that lien there's compensation owed for that
property. But that doesn't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What property is it a right
in if not the immovable property?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, it's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it follows that
immovable property and when the immovable property
disappears the lien disappears. You know, if it's blown
away or flooded, it's now in the Atlantic; the lien is
gone.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA : But otherwise wherever
the property goes the lien follows it. How can you say
that that's not an interest in the property?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I don't think it's a
right in property, Justice Scalia. The lien is a
species of property, of intangible personal property, in
the same sense that a cause of action would be, because
after all what a lien is is essentially at bottom a
claim.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how can the,
how can the lien holder then bring an action to enjoin
waste of the immovable property?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, a lien holder can
bring an action to enjoin waste, but it's important to
understand what interest the lien holder is protecting
in that situation. An action for waste by a lien holder
is to protect the security interest. It's different
from an action for waste by someone who holds a right in
the property. And New York law appears to recognize
this because New York I think has two species of waste
actions, one brought by a security interest holder and
one brought by the holder of property rights. There's a
case, Travelers Insurance, in which the Second Circuit
reviewed New York law in this matter -- it's at 14 F.3d
114 -- and describes how there's two species of waste
actions depending on which sort of plaintiff you have in
issue. And that recognizes that the interest, if you
will, that a lien holder has in the property, is
different from a right in the property.
JUSTICE BREYER: What about paragraph 3 just
after paragraph 2 in the complaint? Paragraph 3 asks
the court to bar and forever foreclose the defendants
from all right, interest, claim, etcetera in the parcel.
Well, what about that? What they're asking, I just
heard it. So what's the answer to that? They seem to
be saying, we have the right to the parcel, you the
defendant have no right to the parcel.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I don't -- you'd have
to ask Respondent's counsel exactly what they mean by
that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I did in part, so he
can answer.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Because Respondents have
repeatedly indicated in this case and in the court of
appeals and in this Court that they can't foreclose on
the property and so they've abandoned any claim for
foreclosure. And a foreclosure action wouldn't result
in the property being deeded to Respondent. It would be
put up for sale and a third party would purchase it. So
I'm not -- I can't tell you exactly what that paragraph
means.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In a very practical way,
you're expressing that right means ownership means
ownership. But the title is certainly impaired by this
lien. India could not turn around and sell it to anyone
without doing something to discharge the, lien right?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the title is certainly
clouded by this lien.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think liens
generally constitute clouds on title, but the fact that
something's a cloud on title doesn't make it a right in
the property. And I could give you one other example.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't have to be a
right in the property. If you look at it from the
owner's point of view, it is a cloud on the owner's
title in the property. It affects the owner's title.
Even if you assert that it doesn't give any title to the
lien holder, it impairs the title of the property owner.
And that's all that's required, as I read the title, in
which rights in immovable property are an issue, and
here the question is whether the, the mission's right to
the property is, is impaired by this lien.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I think our arguments apply
equally both to the lien holder and to the property
owner, Justice Scalia, in the following sense, that with
respect to both of them a lien -- the lien doesn't
affect rights of possession, it doesn't affect the right
to exclude others, which this Court has characterized as
the most fundamental of property rights. It doesn't
affect the right to receive income from the property.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It affects the right to
convey the property free and clear, which is an enormous
right that goes along with the real estate.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, it has a practical
consequence on conveyance because it, as Justice
Ginsburg said, amounts to a cloud on title. But there
are other instruments that result in a cloud on title
but that wouldn't be considered rights in property. One
example would be a contract, a purchase option contract
to purchase property. The holder of a purchase option
wouldn't be considered to have a right in the property
unless and until the option was exercised. At least
that's the general rule, even though the purchase
contract in a sense constitutes a cloud on the title in
the same way that a lien might constitute a lien on the
title.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How long did the United
States take the opposite position and when did it
change?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How long did the United
States adhere to the position that's reflect in the
Englewood brief and when did it change?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I'm not aware that we
took the position before the Englewood brief, so I think
that would be 1985. And I don't think we've had
occasion to revisit that position until this case.
And let me point out with respect to the
Englewood brief, the first two points made in that brief
were along the lines of the court of appeals reasoning
in this case, which was to the effect that a statute
that refers to a right in immovable property encompasses
obligations arising out of immovable property. And
Respondent doesn't attempt to defend that position, but
that's the predicate on which our Englewood brief
rested. And so we think there's good cause for us to
revisit our position from that case.
Now, with respect to the question of whether
a lien establishes rights in property, which is now the
focus of Respondent's argument, I would point out that
in other areas of the law the Court has looked to
questions concerning whether there is a right to exclude
others, whether there is a right to obtain income from
the property, whether there is a right to assert
possession of the property. That's, for example, the
types of considerations this Court takes into account in
the tax area in assessing whether a Federal tax lien can
attach to a property by virtue of the fact that there is
a right to property at stake. And we think the same
sorts of consideration should inform the Court's
assessment of the immovable property exception in this
case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about an easement?
That doesn't involve any of those things. You can't
exclude people and so forth.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, an easement I think
would qualify as a right in property because at least
your standard easement would provide a right of access
to the property by a thoroughfare. And so both sides
would be affected in their use of the property in that
sense.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Mr. Cardozo.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL A. CARDOZO
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. CARDOZO: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
There are three reasons this case puts in
issue rights in immovable property: First, the plain
language of the statute; second, the statute's purpose
and legislative history; and third, international
practice as it existed in 1976.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Cardozo, before you go
any further, I had been under the impression from your
brief that you're not trying to enforce anything
against, against India or against the mission. You just
said you wanted a declaratory judgment that the lien is
a valid lien. But, but here it is in your complaint
you're asking for foreclosure. Which, which is it?
MR. CARDOZO: Justice Scalia, we know that
Section 1610 would preclude us from actually
foreclosing. We're not allowed to do that. There's no
question about that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You just asked for it to
scare them? Was that it?
MR. CARDOZO: No. We do want, as the
discussion preceding me highlighted, we do want to get
in and take what we think is, as a practical matter, is
our property. But we can't. We understand that. So
what we're, what we're saying in our complaint in
paragraph 3, as Justice Breyer pointed out, is we would
like to bar them from holding title. But as we quickly
conceded as soon as we filed the action, we can't
foreclose because of the provisions of Section 1610.
But it doesn't mean that the fact that we can't
foreclose doesn't mean that we don't have a right in
property. Let me give you a very good illustration. If
there is a possessory dispute, someone, an embassy,
rented premises and agreed that if they didn't pay the
rent they would lose their ability to continue to occupy
the premises and they failed to pay rent, that's a title
dispute. The person who rented the property would bring
a suit saying: I have a right to get back into my
property and there is clearly a right in property in
Section 1605. I can't believe that Congress said, that
Congress intended to say, well, you can bring an action
for nonpayment of rent and seek possession except for
1610, that's okay. There's jurisdiction in an action
for rent, but if you want possession of property because
you haven't paid your taxes, and of course you still
can't foreclose, there's no jurisdiction. That doesn't
make any sense.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but they'll say as
was their response to a lot of hypotheticals, the
commercial act exception covers that.
MR. CARDOZO: Your Honor, it may or may not
cover the commercial act exception. And going back to a
question that Justice Breyer asked, there are, there are
cases, not in the United States, but -- and we're citing
some of them in footnote 24 in the red brief -- that
when someone, not the commercial property exception,
someone lent money to, to build an embassy and they
defaulted on the mortgage, the German court said
jurisdiction. It's not a question of enforcement, but
jurisdiction.
The reason for this is if you first look at
the language of the statute, the language of the statute
doesn't say only certain kinds of rights. It says all
rights in property if they're in issue.
We believe that we have a right in the
Indian and Mongolia premises. We --
JUSTICE BREYER: The problem that actually
is bothering me with your side of the case which I find
difficult is, suppose I accept this principle that you
have. All right, it seems to me anything at all can be
reduced to a lien, any judgment, at least certainly slip
and fall cases and you didn't keep the ice up in front
and I want $4 million damages plus 300 million in
punitives and where it is I have a lien against the
embassy here. And I can't think of a distinction once I
go down your road. I mean, he at least has an absolute
distinction which I can see, but once I go down your
road where is the stopping place? What's the principle?
MR. ROBERTS: Let me try, Justice Breyer.
First of all, if there was a judgment on that
hypothetical tort action that you just mentioned, if
there were a judgment you wouldn't have gotten the
judgment in the first place unless you had originally
come within --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm imagining a city or
Belarus or someplace where what they do is they say slip
and fall on ice -- you know, you get a lien against the
property prior to -- okay. I mean, it's easy to imagine
that kind of thing.
MR. ROBERTS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And in a range of subject
matters. So I'm looking to what the stopping place is
once I start down your road.
MR. ROBERTS: And the stopping place I think
is a Federalism concept and a due process concept,
because as this Court has held in a number of cases,
there's a real due process question if liens are created
with no concern about the effect on the defendant. You
have to take a look at the interest of the so-called
plaintiff and you have to find whether there is a
relationship between the lien and the underlying claim.
Now --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why didn't you just say --
you know, if you're worried about the malevolence of
countries to make all sorts of stuff liens, I guess if
they're malevolent enough they can make all sorts of
stuff easements, which, which the other side says is
undoubtedly a property interest. So they could say
that, you know, if you're held liable the court can give
you an easement over the property of, of the defendant
worth so much money. And that would undoubtedly be
enforceable.
MR. CARDOZO: Justice Scalia, they did say
that and certainly if an easement is a right in
property, either because of the hypothetical you just
gave or a traditional easement, there is nothing
different with a tax lien. In fact, a tax lien is a
much greater interest.
JUSTICE BREYER: I still have my question
because I'm not world about malevolence, is that I don't
carry around in my head all of the possible things that
might be liens against property. And so maybe my
imagination is wrong, but I want to know are you are
arguing that every lien against the property is in fact
a right in property which allows a lawsuit, or are you
arguing that there is some distinction between some and
the other. And I noticed that the Restatements and
others are trying to distinguish between whether the
lien in question grows out of the property or it doesn't
grow out of the property, which I find possibly hard to
work with and so I want to know how you see it.
MR. CARDOZO: And what I see, Justice
Breyer, is when you take a look at the cases in this
Court such as Connecticut against Doehr and the other
cases which put limits, the constitutional limits on
liens, of course if a State passed a statute that runs
afoul of the various due process concerns that this
Court has articulated that is certainly one check that
we have.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, let's take the
parking ticket that your colleague raised, that New York
would make a parking ticket a lien, unpaid parking
ticket a lien on all, all property.
MR. CARDOZO: Justice Ginsburg, I think that
would be a hard question, but if it does not run afoul
of the constitutional concerns that I just articulated
and it was a lien applicable not just of course to
foreign sovereigns, but to any unpaid parking ticket --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, yes.
MR. CARDOZO: -- I think that then that
would come within the immovable property exception.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So the only thing they
would have to do I suppose -- you've mentioned the due
process point -- would be to perhaps give a hearing
before the lien was declared and that would be enough?
MR. CARDOZO: I think, I think it certainly
would, Justice Souter, if in fact there was a hearing.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, provided that,
provided notice of hearing was offered, the parking
ticket lien would be in the same position as this lien,
right -- the hearing.
MR. CARDOZO: I think that's right. I think
that's right. And so --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And under New York law
does property, do property tax liens have some superior
status? Are they distinct under New York law from other
liens?
MR. CARDOZO: Well, they're -- as tax liens
you may get into a priority fight in a bankruptcy
context.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Without reference to
priority.
MR. CARDOZO: I don't believe that they
would have any different lien, any different status,
although my colleague corrects me and says that yes, tax
liens -- tax liens do have in certain circumstances a
greater priority. It's hard to think through exactly
where that issue would be.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I had thought they
had a greater priority and that they even survived
purchase from bona fide sellers.
MR. CARDOZO: That certainly, that is
certainly true and a property -- excuse me for
interrupting -- a tax lien would run forever with no
time limit, for example, whereas a mechanics lien has a
statutory time on it. If you got into a dispute about
those two liens obviously the tax lien would have --
would have priority.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask -- may I ask
this question? Suppose another jurisdiction had a tax
system which was just a little different from New York's
and didn't provide for a lien until after a suit had
been brought and there had been a failure to pay or had
to get a judgment first. On that case, that
jurisdiction could not enforce this tax law?
MR. CARDOZO: That is correct, Justice
Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And don't you think it's
sort of a strange way to define a tax immunity, by --
by, by describing the -- the interest in immovable
property?
MR. CARDOZO: Well, we start off with the
statutory language and the statutory language says right
in property. We are not talking about the abstract
right to tax.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But, but the basic issue
in final analysis is whether they have to pay their
taxes, isn't it?
MR. CARDOZO: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The ultimate issue is
whether they have to pay their taxes.
MR. CARDOZO: The ultimate substance --
underlying substantive issue is that but -- and of
course, the State Department even today says these taxes
should be paid. But the jurisdictional issue is whether
there is a right in property. And so if you just -- if
you don't create a lien, if a particular State did not
create a lien, that would not give you the right, which
is what the statute, statutory language says.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know any States that
don't? Isn't it fairly standard? For --
MR. CARDOZO: I believe -- I believe it is
fairly standard, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah.
MR. CARDOZO: I -- there may be one out of
50 States that, that don't say this. I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: May, may I just ask, for a
kind of a footnote kind of question? I mean you
referred again to the text. And if we are going to go
on a very strict reading of the text as I understand it,
you don't have to claim a right in property, you have to
have a claim in -- in which someone's rights in
immovable property are in issue. So whether the, the --
and so long as you create a cloud on the title, however
that cloud is classified, it puts in issue the title of
the named title holder, so that the debates about the
distinction between a lien and easement and so forth is
essentially irrelevant as long as it's a cloud on the
title. If we are going to be that, if we are going to
be literal, isn't that so?
MR. CARDOZO: I, I agree with that. And
here today the right that India and Mongolia claim in
their property is in issue, because we say you do not
have the full right to your property and if this lien
runs long enough, it's going to wipe out the value of
their property completely. And all the statute, the
statute doesn't say as the European Convention says the
foreign sovereign's right in property. The statute says
either -- in effect, either side's right in property.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yeah.
MR. CARDOZO: And I think we can also get a
great deal of help by looking --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The -- the -- the European,
the European treaty looks at it from the other side,
you're saying. It looks at it from the foreign
sovereign side.
MR. CARDOZO: The European Convention
phrased differently looks at it from both sides, Justice
Scalia, which is why they needed the words obligation.
If you look at Article 9 of the European Convention it
first talks about the foreign sovereign's right or
interest in property, and then it says "or the foreign
sovereign's obligations arising out of that property."
That's a different phrase than the FSIA which doesn't
use the word foreign sovereign; it says "its" rights in
property have to be an issue. So you didn't need to
encompass all the language of the European Convention.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would the obligations
arising out of the property in the European Convention
include the obligation to pay taxes, property taxes?
MR. CARDOZO: It would include a controversy
over that absolutely. And let, let me talk about the
international practice because we should take a look at
international practice to -- to guide us.
What was the practice in 1976? Well, first
of all we know that the restatement second and comment
in paragraph 68 says disputes over rights or interest in
property. And the restatement third, which was
concededly a few years after the 1976 adoption of the
statute, makes it perfectly clear. It says it
explicitly. But where did the restatement --
JUSTICE SCALIA: This says what explicitly?
MR. CARDOZO: Says that there is
jurisdiction over tax claim. Section 455 of -- of
restatement third.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Over tax liens or
claims?
MR. CARDOZO: Over tax claims. Excuse me,
Chief -- Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you don't go
that far.
MR. CARDOZO: That -- we don't have to go
that far because we believe we, as a -- we have a right
in property arising from the lien. Now let's look at
the foreign cases before we get to the European
Convention and we cite a number of them in footnote 24.
There is for example the case I referred to in response
to Justice Breyer, a suit over a mortgage. A suit over
a mortgage. It's not the commercial exception; a suit
over a mortgage.
There is a case in England in 1975 which
analyzes broadly what's the meaning of this real
property exception. And that case in England which we
cite says a security interest, a suit over security
interest for a mortgage, there is jurisdiction within
the immovable property exception.
There is a large number of cases. You look
at the Harvard Review of 1932, the status of the law at
that time, extensive review of all the relevant cases,
says the same thing. Then that brings us to the
European Convention which was adopted shortly before the
FSIA and which the State Department told Congress was
consistent with the FSIA.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is this the Vienna
Convention?
MR. CARDOZO: Pardon me? No, the European
Convention.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: European Convention.
MR. CARDOZO: Right. And the European
Convention in Article 9 as I say has a very broad
immovable property exception. I'm not looking just at
the language. I'm looking at what does this convention
reflect as far as international practice was at the
time? And that practice at the time as reflected by the
convention, as reflected by these cases, all say that
there is a very broad immovable property exception that
should cover this kind of dispute.
Now let me make one, one or two final
points. If this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the -- the
convention used language quite different than that was
used by Congress. So I'm not quite sure how that
international practice reflected in or arising out of
the convention is terribly pertinent.
MR. CARDOZO: I'm not, Mr. Chief Justice,
I'm not talking just about the language. I'm talking
about the European, the international practice as
reflected by that convention because the 1976
legislative history of the FSIA says we are trying to
conform United States practice into the, the practice
that is followed internationally. And I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And in some cases
they used language directly from the convention and in
this case they didn't so it seems to me a particularly
ill-advised source for looking for what they were trying
to do.
MR. CARDOZO: Then I would say where did
they get that source from? And that's where I cite the,
first the international cases themselves which reflect
as of 1976 the same philosophy reflected by the European
Convention. There is no question that the wording is
different. I'm not, I'm not disputing that. What I'm
saying is that wording conveys an intent from the
international point of view to have the broad parameters
of an international, of an immovable property exception
and that was consistent with the international cases
that have been decided at that time.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Did their practice draw a
distinction between occupied by the ambassador himself
and property occupied by employees of the embassy?
MR. CARDOZO: As a substantive matter,
Justice Stevens, the answer to that question is of
course yes. Because the Vienna convention in Article 20
-- 23 says that the premises of -- of the mission may
not be, may not be taxed. And then you look at Article
1 to look at what is the meaning of premises of the
mission and they talk about where the business of the
mission is conducted, or where the ambassador resides.
It doesn't talk about the rest of the employees. And
since 1952, the State Department even before the Vienna
convention and subsequent has been advising missions in
New York, it's on their web site today that they must
pay taxes on staff housing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I ask you what, what do
you get out of this case? You've withdrawn your claim
for judgment of foreclosure. What are you going to get
out of it? Declaratory judgment that they owe the
taxes? I'm not sure they have ever contested that they
don't owe taxes.
MR. CARDOZO: Oh yes I think if you look, if
you look at the Petitioners' brief I think they do
contest that they, that they have to pay the tax. But
what we'll get out of this is the following.
First of all, start with the fact that the
statute says you can bring an action in this
jurisdiction even if you can't execute. We have the
State Department telling us, the Solicitor General
telling us in their briefs, footnote 17, that countries
pay lawful taxes. So if we can get, if we can proceed
to judgment and get that, and get that declaration, we
believe based upon what the Solicitor General has said
they will pay their taxes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah, but --
MR. CARDOZO: In addition --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You say he is wrong about a
lot of other stuff.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you believe him
about that?
MR. CARDOZO: And the -- the reason I
believe him about that is that Congress has passed a law
that says if you don't pay your taxes reflected by a
judgment, whatever the amount of that tax is, you're
going to lose 1110 percent of your foreign aid. And so
I believe we are going to get a lot out of that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I -- can I can ask you
to go back for a second to where I'm getting myself into
a muddle here.
I'm still now being very, very literal. I
think you're very literal and you say it says, a case in
which is involved rights to property. And you say, but
this is a right to property in this case; if I win this
case then I have a right to sell that house. Therefore,
I have a right in property.
Now, if that's the reasoning why doesn't
that apply to every case where a State might say if you
win this case you can sell his house? I mean, I can
easily imagine a tort case, a contract case where a
State would say, you win, you can sell their house to
collect the judgment.
MR. CARDOZO: And --
JUSTICE BREYER: So I'm still back in a
different route at where I'm having the problem, which
is a problem of distinguishing in principle between
either your absolute principle, "do it," his absolute
principle, "don't do it," or something in the middle.
MR. CARDOZO: And I think the something in
the middle, Justice Breyer, is if you're talking about a
prejudgment lien which I think is your hypothetical.
It's --
JUSTICE BREYER: The hypothetical was doing
away with the prejudgment lien. I would say the exact
same words apply with just as much force if there is no
prejudgment lien because a suit without a lien the State
were to say, you win this tort claim, you can go sell
this property to collect the judgment, is a suit in
which there is at issue your right to sell his property,
just as there is here.
MR. CARDOZO: But Justice, Justice Breyer,
in that hypothetical, you don't have a right in property
until you win the case.
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you?
MR. CARDOZO: We have, we have a, there is
an in issue today our right to property and I believe
that that is a distinction and I believe also -- and of
critical importance.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait a minute. But
the -- the embassy has rights in it when the case is
brought, even before the final judgment. So you know,
let's give the devil his due. It would be a case in
which rights in immovable property are in issue.
MR. CARDOZO: And if --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You want to look at it from
the embassy side too so --
MR. CARDOZO: Yes. And if you want to look
at it from the embassy side under my theory, their right
-- under my lien their rights are an issue today. And
under Justice Breyer's hypothetical if it meets the
other due process concerns which I think under that
hypothetical would raise a number of interesting ones --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's your big
defense. To do that they would have to do it for
everybody' they would have to do it for Joe Sixpack as
well as for the embassy, right?
MR. CARDOZO: That's right. That's right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is it only the case that
the, that the only instances in which, consistent with
the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act the State could say
you get the house, would be instances of litigation
arising out of commercial activity?
MR. CARDOZO: Yes. That is -- that is --
that is correct. Because it's only in the commercial
activities exception can you execute and then only in
certain limited circumstances --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yeah.
MR. CARDOZO: And you can execute unless the
premises are not being used for the purposes of the
mission.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now -- now I take it you
under New York law and the law of most jurisdictions,
the tax lien becomes a lien against the property before
any judicial proceedings.
MR. CARDOZO: That is correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just because they are
unpaid. And this is probably a question more for them
than for you, but as you understand their position, if
you put a lien on the property for unpaid taxes, are
they entitled to demand its removal?
MR. CARDOZO: Of course they can. And in
fact the Republic of Argentina case --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You mean of course they
can under their view?
MR. CARDOZO: No. They can bring an action
to quiet title. They can bring an action --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. No. No.
MR. CARDOZO: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KENNEY: Excuse me.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can they demand that that
lien be released --
MR. CARDOZO: They can demand it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no.
-- because it violates the Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act? Is it their position that you have no
right at all even to notice a lien against the property?
MR. CARDOZO: Well, I haven't heard their
articulation of that position, but they certainly could
write --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It would seem to me to
follow from what they're saying.
MR. CARDOZO: I think it may. I think they
certainly have a right to ask us to reconsider and make
the various arguments on the merits to us. There are
cases preceding the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act
where a country felt the lien was invalid and brought a
lawsuit.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: My hypothetical is can
they demand that the lien be removed solely because of
the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act.
MR. CARDOZO: They could demand that, but I
don't that the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act answers
the underlying substantive question. You'd have to look
at the Vienna Convention as well as New York law to
answer that question, because all the Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act is talking about is the jurisdictional
issue, not the substantive issue.
And let me just point out that if we, if we
can't bring this lawsuit to have, to try to foreclose or
at least to have a declaration of our rights, this
lawsuit can't be brought anywhere. No place in the
world can New York City have a conclusion as to who owns
this property. That is absolutely inconsistent with the
underlying immovable property exception and the local
action rule, which says that land -- that a sovereign
has a prim evil interest in its land, it has the right
to adjudicate its property.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: With reference to the
offset of foreign aid, could that offset be made under
the controlling statutes just based on your lien, or do
you have to have a judgment first?
MR. CARDOZO: No. The statute talks about a
judgment. It can't just be that.
So finally, even though we cannot execute on
our property -- on the judgment, it has a major impact,
this case has a major impact on what we can do. If we
can't do it there's no other place for our problems to
be resolved. I urge that the decision below be
affirmed. Thank you.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I ask you a question in
your remaining time. With respect to the statute that
authorizes the, the charge against foreign aid, would
that statute have any application except either in a
commercial case or a case like yours?
MR. CARDOZO: Theoretically it would have an
application in a counterclaim situation as well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. CARDOZO: -- Justice Souter. I think
those are the three things. Of course, you don't need
that statute for the commercial exception because you
can execute.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's right. You can go
directly.
MR. CARDOZO: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So in practical terms, with
the possible exception of a counterclaim, the foreign
aid setoff would simply apply to a case like this, then?
MR. CARDOZO: That's right. And Justice
Souter, while certainly the Congress that passed those
statutes was not the Congress that passed the FSIA,
there is, certainly should be an effort to harmonize
what the Congress has done.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I was going to say, if you
deny all the statutes you've got to --
MR. CARDOZO: That is obviously the way to
reconcile these statutes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you do with traffic
tickets? They've built up. You know, there's $100,000
owing in traffic tickets by some embassy. How do you
get a judgment that that is owing?
MR. CARDOZO: You can't get a judgment that
that is owing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you can't use even the
foreign aid gimmick to --
MR. CARDOZO: Not unless, unless the statute
is changed, Justice Scalia, which we have from time to
time tried to persuade Congress to do.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Foreign aid --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Unless New York law
is changed and you pass something saying you get a lien
on property if you have delinquent property, parking
tickets.
MR. CARDOZO: That is right, and that would
get us right back into the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that the
Federal, the 100 percent withholding, relates to taxes?
MR. CARDOZO: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Taxes, not for parking
tickets or anything else.
MR. CARDOZO: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, it
does. It relates to unpaid property, unpaid property
taxes. It doesn't apply to unpaid parking tickets.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Mr. Howley, you have two minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J.P. HOWLEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. HOWLEY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Article 29 of the European Convention
expressly excludes any intent to create an exception for
tax claims. That was the international practice at the
time. What we have here is a bootstrap and I refer to
the Court to its decision in Ministry of Defense of
Republic of Iran against Elahi, where this Court said
that when you have an action to impose a lien, it is
analyzed as an attachment under Section 1609-1610 of the
Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act. And what the Foreign
Sovereign Immunities Act says is you cannot use an
attachment to get jurisdiction where jurisdiction
otherwise does not exist.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you take the position
that it's improper even to notice the property with the
lien?
MR. HOWLEY: Under New York law, yes, and we
have Chief Judge Fulbright for a unanimous --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, let's assume that
you owe the taxes.
MR. HOWLEY: Well, we say that there's no
right to impose the lien because the Vienna Convention
and New York law prohibit the taxation of the property
and you cannot impose the lien to collect something that
you're not entitled to. And this is a dispute that has
historically been resolved through diplomacy, not in the
courts, because the fact is whatever happens in this
case to India and Mongolia is likely to happen to the
United States around the world and that's a foreign
policy question for the State Department to decide.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You mean we'll have to
start paying our taxes around the world?
MR. HOWLEY: I'm afraid so, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that a real problem for
us? I don't think so.
MR. HOWLEY: I am afraid so.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
[Whereupon, at 11:01 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.]
addition 44:18 applicable 34:21 assessment 45:4 46:18,19
54:20 adopted 41:10 applied 16:12 assume 4:12,13 blown 22:25
affect 26:6,6,9 51:14 52:24 Atlantic 23:1 bothering 31:17
39:21 afoul 34:11,19 Arabia 10:18 attaching 19:7 Breyer 7:22 8:2
afraid 54:12,15 13:22 14:20 attachment 9:4 8:10 10:3
aid 45:3 50:11 Argentina 10:19 attempted 9:20 29:25 31:2,16
52:6,10 argued 21:12 50:24 33:18 34:7
allowing 17:25 argument 1:15 aware 12:20 Breyer's 47:7
11:7 12:1 ambassador 3:8 18:24 a.m 1:16 3:2 11:24 20:21
30:24 13:18 14:12 21:17,17,21 54:19 21:9,11,18,18
47:17 43:8,17 27:24 28:23 21:21 27:7,9
53:14,15 American 13:6 arguments back 4:4 30:12 29:9 31:4 44:5
6:1,4 amicus 1:22 2:7 26:2 49:11 52:16 bring 22:4 23:14
16:8 19:1 arises 19:19 BAKER 16:23 23:17 30:11,15
22:4 amount 17:21 arising 18:14 bank 8:3 12:15 44:9 48:17,18
20:14 45:2 27:17 39:12,18 bankruptcy 50:1
24:25 amounts 26:15 40:18 42:7 35:18 brings 10:9 41:9
analysis 37:6 47:19 bar 24:10 30:1 broad 41:19,25
44:9 analyzed 53:13 Article 11:23 based 4:10 8:7 43:3
50:7 analyzes 41:1 39:9 41:19 13:4,24 14:19 broadly 41:1
answer 20:3 43:12,14 53:6 16:8 17:1 brought 12:16
24:4 49:22 34:12,20 basic 10:10 37:5 23:24,25 36:17
14:21 anybody 12:15 49:5 behalf 1:18,22 50:3
47:22 anyway 11:25 asked 19:11 1:24 2:4,7,11 build 12:16 13:1
appeals 21:19 asking 10:3 28:24 53:4 building 16:12
14:7,15 24:23 27:14 17:22 24:12 Belarus 32:10 16:18
APPEARAN... 29:13 believe 4:8 6:20 built 51:25
16:7,9 1:17 asks 24:9 11:21 30:14 business 43:16
17:2,6,9 appears 10:7 assert 25:21 31:14 35:22 buying 13:16,18
cases 31:3,21 citizen 13:6 16:6,8,11 17:1 28:9
34:7,9 city 1:8 3:5 4:24 19:23,25 20:4 considerations
28:22,23 cause 13:23 16:8 city's 17:17 51:7 consistent 20:19
29:7,14 23:10 27:20 18:11,11,15 committee 7:18 41:12 43:5
30:25 century 13:10 claim 13:4,24 company 16:25 47:16
34:6,18 13:11 14:19 17:18,19 17:1,5 constitute 20:18
35:5,11 certain 31:12 17:25 18:2 compensation 25:14 26:24
36:6 35:25 47:23 23:12 24:11,24 22:6,11,16,18 constitutes 21:6
37:1,8 certainly 25:7 32:25 38:5,6 complaint 17:18 26:23
25:11 31:20 38:16 40:8 24:9 29:12,24 constitutional
39:6 33:13 34:12 43:24 46:9 completely 34:9,20
40:7,12 35:5 36:6,7 claiming 3:22 38:20 contest 44:6
41:15,18 49:5,10 51:16 claims 9:21,24 compulsory contested 44:2
43:10 51:18 40:11,12 53:8 7:10 context 35:19
cetera 14:25 classified 38:9 conceded 30:2 continue 30:9
46:1,13 change 17:7 clear 16:4 21:22 concededly 40:3 contract 4:18
47:1,4 27:3,7 26:11 40:4 conceivable 26:18,18,23
changed 52:8,12 clearly 4:2 30:13 12:10,12 45:17
characterized closer 12:1 concept 32:19 controlling
49:4,9 26:7 cloud 25:15,19 32:19 50:12
50:14 charge 50:24 26:15,16,23 concern 32:22 controversy
charged 16:22 38:8,9,12 concerning 8:19 39:20
52:3,7 charges 17:21 clouded 25:12 28:1 convention 6:11
check 34:12 clouds 25:14 concerns 34:11 6:14,23 7:1,5
5:22 12:6 18:21 collect 5:14,17 21:16 50:4 39:6,9,16,18
12:14,16 19:2 21:8 22:3 17:2 45:19 conducted 43:17 40:20 41:10,14
17:23 23:13 28:21,25 46:10 54:3 confers 22:14 41:16,17,19,21
40:10,13,13,14 collection 15:4 conform 42:14 41:24 42:5,8
21:11,15 42:4,9,16 16:5,22 Congress 3:16 42:12,17,25
24:1,22 52:11 53:1,5 come 3:23 4:2 3:19 6:9,11,13 43:12,20 49:21
53:22 54:17 4:16 21:15 6:15,22 7:11 53:6 54:1
29:2 choose 6:14 32:8 34:25 7:12,14,17 8:5 Conventions
36:18 chose 3:19 6:13 comes 7:4 8:5 10:22 13:4 15:2,17,20
41:2 6:22 commence 6:3 18:13 30:14,15 converted 18:5
43:24 Circuit 11:20 commences 6:1 41:11 42:6 converting
24:1 comment 39:25 44:25 51:16,17 18:16
circumstances commercial 51:19 52:9 converts 18:2
35:25 47:23 4:10 8:7 10:20 Connecticut convey 26:11
48:14 cite 40:20 41:3 13:3,4,14,20 34:8 conveyance
51:1,1 42:22 13:23,24 14:7 consequence 6:2 26:14
54:7,18 cited 9:20 14:14,17,20,22 26:14 conveys 43:2
citing 31:3 14:23 15:7,10 consideration correct 7:19 9:1
12:4 D 3:1 11:16 6:16 45:23 27:16
47:21 damages 31:22 depending 24:4 Doehr 34:8 enforce 8:3 29:9
deal 39:1 depends 14:4,10 doing 25:9 46:5 36:19
53:1 debates 38:10 describing draw 43:7 33:11
debt 19:17,19 36:24 due 17:21 32:19 enforcement
7:3,8,13 54:9 19:8 35:2 46:24 engage 13:3
decided 12:5 devil 46:24 47:8 engaged 13:22
deciding 3:24 10:5,8,8,15,15 11:20 41:2
21:14 53:10 36:15 39:13 E 2:1 3:1,1 21:11,17 27:7
34:10,21 declaration 42:5 43:1 easement 28:12 27:9,13,19
43:12 17:15 44:14 45:22 28:15,17 33:9 enjoin 22:5
51:6 50:2 differently 39:7 33:13,15 38:11 23:14,17
4:22 29:11 44:1 diplomacy 54:5 easily 18:8 45:17 entirely 19:21
7:2 9:21,24 declare 5:1,2 directing 17:20 easy 32:12 entitled 22:5,10
11:3 declared 35:4 directly 42:17 effect 9:18 27:15 48:12 54:4
13:21 deeded 25:1 51:10 32:22 38:23 entity 15:9 17:8
20:19,21 deemed 9:22 disappears effects 19:22 equally 26:3
24:10 defaulted 31:7 22:25,25 effort 51:18 ESQ 1:18,20,24
26:7 defend 27:18 discharge 25:9 either 33:14 2:3,6,10,13
28:5 defendant 17:20 discussion 29:21 38:23,23 45:24 essential 9:24
31:7 24:15 32:22 dispute 4:8 6:7 50:25 essentially 23:11
33:8 33:9 30:7,11 36:10 Elahi 53:11 38:12
53:10 defendants 42:1 54:4 electric 14:25 establishes
24:10 disputes 11:12 embassies 13:1 27:23
38:8 52:13 distinction 7:22 43:9 46:22 26:12
demand 48:12 7:25 31:24 47:3,5,13 52:1 et 1:5 3:5 14:25
49:18 38:11 43:8 22:15,17 European 6:11
41:11 43:19 distinguished encompass 40:19 41:10,15
54:9 7:25 39:16 41:17,18 42:11
fact 6:11 19:18 38:2 40:20 16:22 hand 8:22
25:3 failed 30:10 24:10,23 30:3 generis 21:23 34:19 36:1
failure 36:17 30:5,20 50:1 German 31:7 harmonize
25:16 fall 3:15 4:9 29:16 gimmick 52:6 Harvard 41:7
28:4 16:6 31:21 foreclosure Ginsburg 5:5 head 33:20
40:21 32:11 17:18,19,20 7:3,9 11:15,19 hear 3:3
4:3,10,13 far 5:11,12 43:25 16:2,11,17,21 49:4
6:24,25 40:15,17 41:22 foreign 3:16 16:23 17:4 hearing 35:3,6,8
8:6,8 Federal 7:5,10 7:14 13:13 18:8 19:11 35:10
12:18 10:11,12,16 15:17 19:25 25:5,11 26:15 heavily 11:24
14:21 28:6 52:18 20:24 34:22 27:1,5 34:14 held 10:13,18
21:4,5 Federalism 38:22 39:4,10 34:18,23 52:10 11:4 13:21
30:24 32:19 39:11,14 40:19 52:17,20,22 32:20 33:8
34:25 fee 15:19,25 45:3 47:17 give 5:13 9:14 help 39:1
41:2,5 16:4 49:1,12,17,19 10:25 20:3,14 highlighted
43:4 fees 15:3,5,6,11 49:22 50:11,24 25:16,21 30:6 29:21
50:6 15:12 16:15 51:13 52:6,10 33:8 35:3 historically 54:5
53:7 felt 49:13 53:14,14 54:8 37:17 46:24 history 12:14
fight 35:18 36:8 go 4:4 29:7 holder 5:13,22
28:1,14 final 37:6 42:2 38:11 38:3 40:14,16 22:16 23:14,16
48:21 find 31:17 32:24 friendly 20:7 going 10:15 31:1 26:3,19 38:10
50:16 first 3:4 21:18 FSIA 19:15 43:25 45:3,4 holding 30:1
22:9 27:13 39:13 41:11,12 51:20 holds 23:21
32:4,7 36:18 Fulbright 53:22 27:20 30:6 honored 20:6
flooded 23:1 26:8 20:8 45:12,16,18
44:7 4:1,7,14,20 5:8
9:9,12 5:20 8:8,18 23:18,20,24 43:25 44:1,14 34:14,18,23
10:7,12 10:23 11:2,4 24:5,11 32:23 45:2,19 46:10 35:1,6,7,13,20
11:9,18 15:5 36:23 33:7,17 36:24 46:23 50:13,15 36:3,13,20,22
impact 50:17,18 39:11 40:1 50:17 52:2,3 37:5,9,19,22
impaired 25:7 41:3,4 50:8 judicial 48:6 37:23 38:1,24
26:1 interesting 47:9 jurisdiction 39:2,7,17 40:6
16:2 impairs 25:22 interests 6:10,12 3:13 9:23 40:10,13,14,22
17:6 importance 6:17 21:12 15:24 16:1,9 41:13,17 42:4
18:10 46:20 international 30:17,20 31:8 42:9,16 43:7
53:2,3,5 important 19:12 29:5 39:22,23 31:9 36:14,19 43:11,23 44:17
54:12 23:17 41:22 42:7,11 40:8 41:4 44:19,22 45:5
impose 53:12 42:23 43:3,4,5 44:10 53:16,16 45:21 46:2,5
33:14 impression 29:8 internationally 9:21 15:2 47:2,7,10,15
47:7 improper 53:19 42:15 37:14 49:23 47:24 48:3,8
49:15 include 39:19,20 interrupting jurisdictions 48:15,19,21,22
28:2 invalid 49:13 48:4 50:10,22 51:4
54:7 4:22,24 5:1,4 9:11,17 10:1,3 J.P 1:18 2:3,13
16:24 20:8 15:2,6,16 16:7 11:6,15,18,25
19:6 inform 28:9 22:11 24:5 13:25 14:6,10 KENNEDY
21:4 insofar 9:7 25:24 29:3 14:16,23 15:11 8:24 9:11,17
instances 47:16 31:13 36:2 15:21 16:2,11 10:1 14:23
25:24 47:18 37:5,9,12,14 16:17,21,23 15:11 21:20
28:10 instruments 38:7,9,17 17:4,10,14,16 22:1 35:13,20
34:25 26:16 39:15 46:11,18 18:8,21 19:3 36:3 41:13,17
38:7 Insurance 24:1 46:25 47:6 19:10 20:2,22 48:3,8,15,19
intangible 23:9 49:24,24 21:1,8,20 22:1 48:22,25 49:7
46:25 intended 30:15 22:3,20,23 49:15 50:10
intent 43:2 53:7 J 23:4,8,13 24:8 53:18,23
6:5,8,8,18,25 JOHN 1:18 2:3 25:17 26:4,10 kind 32:13 38:2
13:13 8:15 9:3,8,12 Joint 17:17 28:12,21,25 kinds 10:5 31:12
49:2,12 9:13,22 12:2 Judge 53:22 29:7,14,18,25 know 13:10,11
17:15,21,22 judgment 17:20 30:22 31:2,16 13:12 20:3
18:12 20:5,11 29:11 31:20 32:3,9,15 33:2 22:25 29:14
34:5 liability 15:23 limited 8:19 32:12 38:2 municipal 16:22
39:25 liable 33:8 47:23 45:16 48:15
51:25 Libya 12:8 limits 34:9,9 53:23 54:10 N
5:13,17,21,22 27:14 11:1 41:1 named 38:10
6:7 literal 38:14 43:15 Nations 1:5 3:5
12:3 18:2,5,12,16 little 36:15 mechanics 36:9 need 39:15 51:6
19:7,9,17,22 load 19:20 meets 47:7 needed 39:8
17:15 20:5,12,15,16 loaned 12:15 mentioned 32:5 Nelson 10:19
50:7,8 20:17,23 21:5 local 18:1 50:6 35:2 13:22 14:20
7:16 22:12,12,14,16 27:5 38:8,12 merely 11:4 15:22,24
11:10,11 22:18,25 23:1 38:19 18:1 new 1:8,8,18,24
29:4 23:5,8,11,14 longer 21:13 merits 49:11 3:6,18 4:24 5:5
37:2 23:16,18,19 look 4:4 17:9 MICHAEL 1:24 8:25 9:17,23
39:16 24:6 25:8,9,12 25:18 31:10 2:10 28:23 9:25 14:1,24
42:5,10 25:22 26:1,3,5 32:23 34:7 middle 45:25 15:11,12 18:2
26:5,24,24 39:9,22 40:18 46:2 23:22,23 24:2
34:3,16,17,21 looking 21:11 minutes 53:2 53:21 54:2
35:4,9,9,23 32:16 39:1 mission 1:3 3:4 nonpayment
24:2 36:8,9,11,16 41:20,21 42:19 3:21 16:18,24 30:16
35:13,15 37:16,17 38:11 looks 39:3,4,7 20:10 29:10 normally 8:13
41:7 38:18 40:18 lose 30:9 45:3 43:13,16,17 notice 22:2 35:8
48:4,4 46:3,6,8,8 47:6 lost 11:19,19 48:2 49:3 53:19
52:11 48:5,5,11,23 lot 30:23 44:20 missions 43:20 noticed 34:1
54:2 49:3,13,16 45:4 mission's 25:25 number 32:20
50:1,3 54:3 major 50:17,18 17:23,25 20:13 numerous 5:12
10:5,6,8 11:13 malevolent 33:5 31:15 38:16 O
22:5 25:13 29:22 43:10 mortgage 7:23 39:19
34:14 36:11 40:10 14:7,12 16:9 41:4 obtain 28:2
46:24 lien-based 19:13 17:11 24:17 mortgages 8:20 obviously 20:4
limit 36:9 30:4,5 31:25 muddle 45:7 36:11 51:22
paid 5:3 15:6 1:19,23 2:4,8 26:13 29:22 4:9,24,25 5:10
24:9,9 25:3 42:24 41:22,23 42:7 6:18,19 8:4,14
32:12 34:16,16,22 plain 29:3 predates 13:13 18:15,17 19:4
35:8 52:13,20 plaintiff 19:24 predicate 27:19 19:6,19,22
part 24:19 play 19:24 46:3,6,8 21:4,6,13,21
42:18 29:1 43:13,15 48:1 22:21,24,24
pass 18:3 52:12 19:20 20:13,20 principle 31:18 24:7,24 25:1
18:24 passed 3:16 8:6 35:3 43:3 45:25 25:24 26:1,3,8
9:22 10:23 49:25 prior 32:12 26:9,11,17,19
8:12 44:25 51:16,17 42:3 36:4,12 28:8,10,16,18
30:8,10 36:17 12:2,5 16:3,3 probably 48:9 30:18 31:5,13
22:16,18 43:22 44:6,13 21:15 27:2,6,9 20:3 31:16 33:14,21,23,24
26:4 people 12:25 49:2,5 53:18 proceed 44:13 36:25 37:3,15
25:6,7 percent 45:3 5:14 22:15,17 38:20,22,23
perfectly 40:4 26:6 28:4 48:6 39:19 40:2,18
possessory 30:7 34:11 35:3 43:4,9 45:10
pertinent 42:8 potential 19:14 property 3:15 50:5,6,9,17
54:2 raise 47:9 related 13:23 Respondent's 51:9,11,15
range 32:15 relates 4:17 24:17 27:24 rights 5:12 6:12
28:17 8:12,19 11:12 released 48:23 39:25 40:2,5,9 25:24 26:6,8
13:19 14:1 relevant 41:8 Restatements 26:17 27:23
16:4 17:2 26:12 32:21 remaining 50:23 rested 27:20 38:6 39:14
41:1 54:13 53:2 restrictive 10:22 40:1 45:10
26:18,19 45:14 rents 5:14 review 41:7,8 18:21 21:8
36:5 reasons 22:3,7 repeatedly reviewed 21:15 22:3 23:13
receive 26:9 representative 4:6,23 5:10,13 53:1 54:17
48:11 19:8 represented 9:13,16,25 rule 10:16 26:22
19:11 reconsidered 25:23 25:9,15,18,25 34:10 38:19
25:25 11:22,23 reserve 18:19 26:6,9,10,12
29:17 red 31:4 residence 13:18 26:20 27:16 S
32:21 reduced 31:20 14:12 28:1,2,3,8,16 S 2:1 3:1
34:3,19 refer 53:9 resides 43:17 28:17 30:5,12 sale 3:23,25 4:9
38:2 reference 35:20 resolved 50:20 30:13 31:14,19 5:16,23 6:2
43:11 50:10 54:5 33:13,24 35:10 25:2
49:20,22 referred 38:3 respect 20:25 35:11,12 37:2 Saudi 10:18
54:9 40:21 21:4 22:9 26:5 37:4,15,17 13:21 14:20
27:16 Respondent 38:23 39:10 14:7 24:14
42:7,12 Respondents 47:5,13,14,14 says 7:10 8:15
37:2,13 sellers 36:5 sovereign 3:15 status 9:2 35:15 40:23 41:3
38:21,22 sense 6:5 19:15 3:16 5:20 7:14 35:23 41:7 46:8,10
40:1 23:10 26:4,23 8:8 10:22 11:1 statute 6:23 superior 9:2,9
41:3,9 28:20 30:21 11:4 12:17 10:23 18:13,13 35:14
43:13 separate 13:5 13:13 19:25 22:13 27:15 superiority 9:7
45:1,9 15:1,6 20:24 39:5,14 29:4 31:11,11 supply 16:25
53:15 service 15:8,9 47:17 49:1,12 34:10 37:18 supporting 1:23
5:16 services 14:25 50:7 53:14,15 40:4 44:9 suppose 15:12
6:3,16,21 14:25 15:3,4,5 sovereigns 50:14,23,25 15:13 20:6
12:9 16:16 34:22 51:7 52:7 31:18 35:2
14:6 setoff 51:14 sovereign's statutes 50:12 36:14
17:10 shortly 41:10 38:22 39:10,12 51:17,21,23 supposed 19:21
20:2 side 31:17 33:6 so-called 32:23 statute's 29:4 Supreme 1:1,15
21:1 39:3,5 47:3,5 species 23:9,23 statutory 11:5 sure 42:6 44:2
23:4 sides 28:18 39:7 24:3 36:10 37:2,2 survived 36:4
25:17 side's 38:23 specific 16:15 37:18 survives 22:1,2
28:12 significant 5:12 SRI 1:20 2:6 step 4:4 sympathetic
similarities 5:9 18:24 Stevens 36:13 12:7 20:7
33:2,12 simply 3:24,24 Srinivasan 1:20 36:21,22 37:5 system 36:15
51:14 2:6 18:23,24 37:9 43:7,11
40:6 site 43:21 19:2 20:17,23 stopping 32:2,16 T
44:17,19 situation 23:19 21:3,14,25 32:18 T 2:1,1
46:21 51:3 22:8,22 23:3,7 straight 7:4 take 12:13 22:8
51:24 Sixpack 47:12 23:16 24:16,21 strange 21:1 22:11 27:2
54:10 slip 31:20 32:10 25:10,13 26:2 36:23 29:22 32:23
sold 3:21 26:13 27:4,8 strict 38:4 34:7,14 39:22
45:6 11:21 44:11,15 stake 28:8 subject 32:15 takes 22:18 28:5
29:15 someplace 32:10 37:20,22 submitted 21:9 43:18
40:8 something's start 32:17 37:1 54:18,20 talking 5:21 9:6
25:15 44:8 54:11 subsequent 9:7 15:23
48:20 34:10 37:13,16 substantive 46:2 49:23
41:3 sorts 28:9 33:4,5 44:11 45:15,18 43:10 49:20,24 50:14
sounds 7:3 46:8 47:17 sue 12:19,23 Tate 13:12
51:4,5,9,12,16 31:3 37:19,25 17:12 30:12 33:16,16 35:14
51:20 42:14 54:8 36:16 40:22,22 35:17,24,25
26:2 27:9,10 52:1 42:14 54:823:17,19,21,23
37:4 27:20 28:8,15 transaction 4:4 unpaid 34:16,22
29:22 31:24 7:6 48:9,11 52:23
45:2 48:5 32:18 34:18,24 transformed 52:23,24 16:5,21,24,25
35:5,5,11,11 19:7 urge 50:20 17:1,2,8,9
25:5
45:9 46:1,3 treaty 39:3 39:14 52:526:24 36:23
16:13,15 51:5 54:14 true 9:5 36:7 U.N 16:19 web 43:21
third 21:17 25:2 try 22:8 32:3 weight 19:21
30:19 29:5 40:2,9 50:1 V Weltover 10:19
thoroughfare trying 29:9 34:2v 1:7 went 16:24
43:22 28:18 42:13,19 vague 11:10,15 we'll 3:3 15:13
thought 9:1 10:2 Tuesday 1:12 valid 21:13 22:7 44:7 54:10
48:11 21:8 36:3 turn 19:16 25:8 29:12 we're 12:20
52:17 two 21:18 23:23 validity 5:1,2 29:16,24,24
54:11 three 29:2 51:6 24:3 27:13 19:9 31:3
34:17,22 35:9 53:2 various 34:11 27:10
28:21 50:23 52:8,9 37:9,11 54:1 52:18
52:25 53:9 ultimately 4:17 view 19:18 won 12:17
54:16 title 4:23,25 unanimous 25:19 43:3 word 39:14
25:7,11,14,15 53:22 48:16 wording 42:25
25:23 26:15,16 22:14 32:25 violates 49:1 words 10:4 39:8
15:24 30:10 38:8,9 50:6 vs 3:5 work 13:8 34:5
19:13,13 38:10,13 48:18 understand 5:19 world 11:3
20:15 today 37:13 23:18 29:23 W 12:14 33:19
38:16 43:21 38:4 48:10 wait 46:21 50:4 54:8,11
35:1 told 41:11 10:22 waivers 8:19 worth 33:10
tomorrow 18:3 undoubtedly want 29:20,21 wouldn't 4:3,19
51:6 tort 32:5 45:17 United 1:1,4,15 33:22 34:5 20:17 24:25
8:2,14 traditional 8:18 11:3 wanted 29:11 write 6:9 18:13
23:3,7 33:15 13:14 18:25 Washington 49:6
25:13 traffic 51:24 27:1,5 31:3 1:11,21 wrong 9:1 12:5
44:19 17 44:12
2:8
43:19
44:17 39:24 40:3
42:12,24
3:6 4:25
9:1,17,23 2
14:1,24 2 24:9
18:3 20 43:12
24:2 2007 1:12
35:13,15 21 20:20
48:4 22 20:20
50:4 23 43:13
53:21 24 1:12 31:4
40:20
11:23 53:6
300 31:22
1:7 3:4
455 40:8
43:15
1:16 3:2 5
52:18 50 37:25
54:19 53 2:14
45:3
24:3 6
21:11 68 40:1
24:2
13:9 30:14 7
4:11 78 17:17
13:5
3:17 9
10:16 9 39:9 41:19
53:13
29:15 30:3
