IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
FEDERAL EXPRESS :
CORPORATION, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1322
PAUL HOLOWECKI, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 6, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CONNIE L. LENSING, ESQ., Memphis, Tenn.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
DAVID L. ROSE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondents.
TOBY J. HEYTENS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CONNIE L. LENSING, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
DAVID L. ROSE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 29
TOBY J. HEYTENS, ESQ.,
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondents 46
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CONNIE L. LENSING, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 58
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 06-1322, Federal Express Corporation v.
Holowecki.
Ms. Lensing.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CONNIE L. LENSING
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. LENSING: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Congress clearly set out a statutory scheme
in which timely notice and the opportunity for
conciliation are required before an age discrimination
private suit may be brought. While our position is that
reading -- the reading of ADEA Section 626(d) as a whole
shows that "charge" encompasses notice, even if that
definition is too broad and you accept only a content
definition of "charge," it is clear from the structure
of the statute that notice and an opportunity to
conciliate before a lawsuit commences is required.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, EEOC Form 5 is
labelled "Charge." And would it be your position that
if an employee filled out that form and submitted it to
the EEOC, but the EEOC made a mistake and did not notify
the employer, that that would not be a charge?
MS. LENSING: We think the better rule is
that it would not be a charge until notice is given,
because that's the only rule that is faithful to the
statute, that notice is required. But equitable tolling
is available for such a mistake and that's the exact
situation in which equitable tolling should be used, to
rectify a true mistake on the EEOC's part at the time,
rather than what they have been engaging in of late,
which is second-guessing the decision made at the time.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, why don't we do
exactly that here? I mean, you say that the proper
thing to do, now a charge labelled Form 5 has been
filed, is to dismiss this lawsuit; and then we wait 60
days; and the identical lawsuit is reinstated. Why
shouldn't the court simply toll the case and say, now we
have a proper Form 5. The employer didn't get a chance
to engage in settlement. So we hold on to the case and
allow the 60 days to elapse, and then the complaint is
there. Why isn't that the appropriate solution for this
case?
MS. LENSING: Well, Justice Ginsburg, to
begin with, the plaintiff never requested that the court
do that. But in a broader sense, it's not the proper
thing to do because there's a very big difference in
conciliation after notification and before a lawsuit has
been filed. There is -- the emphasis is on let's get
this conciliated, if possible.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you said the same
complaint could be filed at the end of the conciliation.
What difference does it make that you have a piece of
paper there?
What I don't understand is the only effect
of your position -- dismiss the whole thing, 60 days,
start over -- is you're making the plaintiff file an
additional filing fee. The complaint has already been
filed. The filing fee has been paid.
Now, everything would work out just the same
except the plaintiff has to pay a second filing fee. In
the court there are certain inefficiencies if it's first
dismissed and then they have to docket it again. So I
don't see any -- it doesn't seem to make any sense to
me.
MS. LENSING: Well, Congress believed that
notice and a chance to conciliate without a lawsuit was
the proper way for this to be done, and there is a
difference in efforts to conciliate before and after a
lawsuit is filed. And if --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think -- I
think you're right about that. I mean, once the
lawyer's involved and they're in litigation and all
that, they're not going to take conciliation efforts
with the same light as before.
But the question is whether the remedy for
that, which is some unfairness to you, is to throw the
suit out or try to fix it as much as possible, such as
through a stay or dismissing without prejudice or
something.
Why should the Plaintiff -- it's not his
fault that the EEOC didn't notify you. Why should he
suffer the categorical sanction of dismissal simply
because it's a little unfairness to you?
MS. LENSING: I think it could be dismissed
without prejudice. I think that that's fine, because
then you would have an opportunity, as in this case
where there is a proper charge, to have that period of
conciliation, and the plaintiff would not be out
anything other than the filing fee, which the employer
is out a little bit, too, because the employer never got
a prompt notice at the time of the first situation.
But the biggest reason --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why -- why should the --
the filing fee penalty, in effect, go to the plaintiff
when it wasn't the plaintiff's fault?
MS. LENSING: Well, you know, I would submit
that perhaps it is the plaintiff's fault when the
plaintiff does not do everything a plaintiff can to be
sure that a charge is filed. This particular form, for
instance, stated that it is for -- pre-charge counseling
is the purpose, and that it's to determine potential
charges.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I interrupt you to this
extent: As I understand it, if -- your position, if the
plaintiff had filed on Form 5 and the EEOC had done
nothing and the plaintiff then brought suit, you'd be
making the same argument.
MS. LENSING: That is true, and equitable
tolling is available.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that. I
mean, that -- that seems to me a very strange argument.
You say since -- since the EEOC must give notice when a
charge is filed, if it doesn't give notice, no charge
has been filed.
That doesn't make sense. I mean, it's just
like saying, you know, you have a civil rule, a rule of
civil procedure, that says, you know, after a complaint
has been filed there shall be an answer within 60 days.
And if no answer is filed, no complaint has been filed?
MS. LENSING: Well, Justice -- sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, it just doesn't
track.
MS. LENSING: Justice Scalia, I understand
your hesitancy to accept our definition of "charge" as
including notice, but the other view --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So give me another one that
will enable me to rule in your favor?
MS. LENSING: It is -- it is just as true
and the results are just the same if you look at the
statute as a whole and you uphold the sense of the
statute and you understand that the requirement before
bringing a suit, whether or not notice is part of the
definition of "charge." But there is a requirement
under the statute that notice and an effort to
conciliate be made before the suit is brought. So
understanding the statute as a whole and upholding that
purpose, that it's a requirement, an indispensable
prerequisite to a lawsuit, is a different way of getting
to the same result.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. Now, does --
does the person who's filed a proper charge know whether
notice has been given or not? Is a copy of the notice
always given to the filer.
MS. LENSING: I don't know if it always is.
Certainly when it's not given, it is not. But, yes, I
think the person easily can contact or find out from the
EEOC, what is happening with my, what she believes or
may not believe is a charge. In this particular case,
certainly she did within the time limits because she
filed a charge later.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: After she had a lawyer.
But is it -- is it not the practice at the EEOC when
you're dealing with an unrepresented person who files
the intake questionnaire and if the SEC reviewer thinks
that it fits within the statute, that the Form 5 will be
filled out, not by the layperson, but by the EEOC
officer herself?
MS. LENSING: Well, I think that the, the
practice has been so inconsistent and that's part of the
problem. Two field agents in this particular case, one
in '01 and one in '02, because she submitted the
questionnaire twice, two field agents did decide that it
was not a charge and did not treat it as a charge -- no
charge number, no notice. They decided it was not a
charge. And so no Form 5 --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's not the
question. The question I asked is if they decide that
the, what the intake -- the information on the intake
questionnaire fits within the statute so that the claim
can go forward, isn't it the practice not to ask the
layperson to fill out the Form 5, but for the EEOC to do
it itself?
MS. LENSING: I don't believe so, Your
Honor. The website says, for instance, until 2 months
ago -- for 2-1/2 years the Web site, which is probably
the way the agency gets out information to more people
and more employees than any other way, says when the
completed signed Form 5 is received back in the field
office --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, it has to be
signed.
MS. LENSING: Well, this -- right. Received
back in the field office -- in this case, for instance,
both the questionnaire and the charge were filled out by
her, by the, by the employee.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, she filled out hers
after she was already in court and had a lawyer. But I
thought that this statute, as all the statutes EEOC
administers, are designed for claims that are put forth
initially largely by unrepresented people. And the
notion is that the agency should make it as easy as
possible for them to get through the legal process.
MS. LENSING: It -- the form does say, the
form that she filled out, the intake questionnaire, does
say that someone will talk with you after you fill this
out. It does not say that they will fill out the
charge. In our experience the charge is very often
filled out by the employee.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It said it wasn't a charge,
didn't it? Didn't it say that it's not a charge?
MS. LENSING: Yes, it did. Well, it did not
say that this is not a charge, which I think would be a
better practice if it did say that in the future. But
it said the purpose of this is for precharge
counseling --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Precharge counseling.
MS. LENSING: -- and for determination
whether we have jurisdiction over potential charges. So
we think the plain language of the form --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do we know --
perhaps this is a question your friend on the other side
will be able to answer better than you. But do we know
where she got the form, why she filled it out? I
couldn't find in the record whether this was given to
her by someone at the EEOC or whether she downloaded it
from the website or what.
MS. LENSING: We do not know, or I do not
know. It is not in the record. You're correct.
The problem is, is that the practice at EEOC
has been so inconsistent, both the, what they call a
charge, what they recognize as a charge, and their
treatment of documents as a charge. Again, the Web site
clearly says a Form 5 that is signed and completed and
received back in the field office is a charge. That is
when your charge is filed. And yet we have two memos
that went out, one after the Edelman case and one after
the opening brief in this case, to field agents that
say, no, you're supposed to use this manifest intent
test.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I agree completely
with everything you said. I just don't understand your
leap from government incompetence to saying the
plaintiff loses.
MS. LENSING: The plaintiff does not lose.
And that is the difference in this situation and the
Logan case, which the government, I think, and also the
Respondent have cited. The plaintiff does not lose,
because equitable tolling is available. Now, in our
case --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What happens -- what
happens if -- in this case it's not a problem, but I can
imagine it would be in many cases -- - if you have a
300-day or a 180-day problem, you withdraw the
complaint, and then you're out there and the clock keeps
ticking, and you get past the 300 days and you are
totally out. That's why it's important not to follow --
to say, well, it's, it doesn't make any difference, if
we dismiss this complaint, she comes back in 60 days.
Well, but 60 days may be 360 days.
MS. LENSING: Yes, Your Honor. That's where
equitable tolling comes in. That's the purpose of
equitable tolling.
If the situation is that you have missed the
time to file the charge, either the 180 or the 300 days,
equitable tolling saves from you that. In other words,
you can now file the charge.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think
Ms. Kennedy is entitled to equitable tolling in this
case?
MS. LENSING: Ms. Kennedy didn't need
equitable tolling, because in this case she caught the
situation before the time ran and she filed a charge.
The problem in this case is that she chose not to file a
lawsuit based on that charge, and she decided to do that
for quite some time. She did finally get -- you know,
once the charge was filed, the EEOC recognized it as a
charge, they gave notice to us, the employer. They
began the time --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess she,
reasonably or otherwise, thought there already was a
lawsuit.
MS. LENSING: Well, not after the lawsuit
was dismissed, Your Honor. I mean after the lawsuit was
dismissed, she got the right to sue letter and she still
did not bring a lawsuit. She had 90 days from the right
to sue letter and she still did not bring a lawsuit.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wasn't she appealing?
MS. LENSING: Pardon me?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wasn't she appealing the
dismissal?
MS. LENSING: Yes, Your Honor.
But, you know, the equitable tolling is not
needed where you file within the 180 or 300 days. All
you have to do is file a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did you undertake
conciliation efforts after her formal, her filing of the
Form 5 charge?
MS. LENSING: We were in a lawsuit, Your
Honor, and so that sort of changes everything. We
can't, we can't talk to her. We can't -- you know, the
discovery process is what you then would use to
investigate, rather than an informal investigation. And
that never occurred and that's part of the problem here,
because we spent a long, long time on the motion to
dismiss. It was finally dismissed. Then it was on
appeal, and it's still on appeal. So we haven't had
that opportunity, although she is a current employee;
that this has been in litigation, and that changes the
face of conciliation completely.
JUSTICE ALITO: If the employee files an
intake questionnaire but not a Form 5, would you say
that there would be equitable tolling, or would you say
that the employee wouldn't be entitled to equitable
tolling because the employee didn't file the right form?
MS. LENSING: I think that unless she was
relying on the EEOC, and there have been cases like that
in which the EEOC says, the field agent says, that's all
you need to do, this is a charge and notice is going to
issue. If that were -- if there were some evidence of
that in the record, which of course this record is
completely silent. The plaintiff chose to put no
information in about whether she believed, didn't
believe or what she was relying on. But in a situation
where the EEOC misleads her, yes. I would certainly say
no in a situation where the form clearly says that it's
precharge.
JUSTICE ALITO: I don't see much difference
between the substance of these two forms, other than the
fact that the Form 5, I think, requires a listing of the
number of employees that the employer has. What -- they
basically cover the same ground.
MS. LENSING: There is very little
difference, you're exactly right, in the information
requested. The difference is that one is an intake
questionnaire and not a charge, and the other is a
charge. And the EEOC, which we think is a good idea,
has had a multistep process, so that lay people that
come in and say, you know, I have this charge of
discrimination, it happened to me when I was working in
France, they can go through those and say that's not,
that's not a charge, and they can read through them and
not have to process everything as a charge. That's the
reason for the intake questionnaire. But it is simply
giving the information to the EEOC and not a charge, and
must be treated, must be treated differently.
You know, going back, Justice Ginsburg,
because I don't think I ever finished the answer to your
question some time ago. One of the problems with
staying the lawsuit is if that were the answer, then we
would be doing away with presuit notice, because anybody
could go in on an intake questionnaire a year later
because, remember, nothing is happening to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, I don't understand
that, because EEOC is a responsible agency. Congress
has told it: You weed out the people complaining about
something that happened in Paris, and then you give
notice. But the notice obligation -- and I understand
it is EEOC's, not the complainant's. So we would not
expect this agency -- yes, it messed up in this case --
routinely not to give notice, routinely not to engage
the employer in conciliation efforts.
MS. LENSING: But that is the problem. If
you -- they are routinely not giving notice of intake
questionnaires, and they are not supposed to. We agree
with them. And twice this happened. And only 5 years
later after it got to this Court did the EEOC write a
memo and say, oh, those field agents were wrong. But we
need to take the opinion of the EEOC at the time. And
of course this was a very reliable, very justified
opinion of the field agents because it clearly said on
the form it was precharge.
But if you -- if you just say the lawsuit,
that means that anybody that files an intake
questionnaire can come in 2 years later because it's not
being processed, so no notice to sue letter will ever go
out, and so there is no end to the statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the new form,
the EEOC's new form -- I suppose responsive to this case
and others like it -- that says if you don't file any
other administrative complaint, we'll count the intake
questionnaire as the charge?
MS. LENSING: Well, that's -- that's an
interesting form because that means it you come in the
day after the act of discrimination, that form is filled
out; it is neither a complaint nor a charge. Who knows
what it is until 300 days run. So at the end of 300
days, if the -- if the complainant has not filed another
writing, then there -- there can be no prompt notice.
Then it is -- has morphed into a charge; then there can
be no prompt notice to the employer.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If the EEOC treats it as
a charge, then the EEOC is obliged to give notice.
MS. LENSING: But they won't know if it's a
charge until the entire time runs, to know if it's the
only timely filed document, because it says it's only a
charge if you don't file anything else on time. You
have 300 days to do that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where -- where does it
say if you don't file it's only --
MS. LENSING: If it's the only timely
document filed --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MS. LENSING: -- means that no other
document within the time period, which is 300 days.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's the new form.
MS. LENSING: In deferral stage. Yes.
That's the form, yes, Your Honor, the form in footnote
3, I believe, of the EEOC's brief.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And where in the form
that --
MS. LENSING: I'm sorry. Footnote 2, I
think, on page 3.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The new form does say
that, that if no other paper is filed, this can be
treated as a charge?
MS. LENSING: This will be a charge, if no
other timely allegation of discrimination is -- is
filed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't that eliminate the
whole purpose of the -- of the preliminary document, to
weed out those charges that relate to employment in
France?
MS. LENSING: It does. It does completely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It will -- it will be a
charge even if it's in France?
MS. LENSING: Right. It should be. Now, I
think the practical matter is, Justice Scalia, that if
nobody does anything ever -- you don't file suit, you
don't try to rely on it -- they don't give notice and
they don't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think that's right. I
think what it boils down to is it'll be a charge if we
decide to give notice, and it won't be a charge if we
don't decide to give notice.
MS. LENSING: Exactly.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is very nice for the
EEOC, but not --
MS. LENSING: Which can only happen at the
end of a long period of time, which means that the
notice will not be prompt.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, the
Government relied in its brief very heavily on the
Chevron case, saying we should defer to the agency's
regulations, and on the Auer case, saying we defer to
the agency to tell us what its regulations mean. And
you didn't cite either of those cases in your reply
brief. So I wonder what your answer is to that
argument.
MS. LENSING: Well, the -- the regulations
are certainly entitled to deference, and taken as a
whole, the regulations, just as the statutes, require
notice. But what the EEOC's position is, is the
regulations that describe what a charge is are not
enough, and the entire definition is not embodied in the
regulations. You have to go to -- to memos we wrote and
to a compliance manual, which is not in the record and
is not attached to the brief and is not available to
employees or most lawyers, readily.
JUSTICE BREYER: But if they do that why
can't -- and you don't -- if they don't give you the
notice, well, then you can complain, they didn't give us
the notice.
MS. LENSING: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: But if you're not hurt by
it, what difference does it make?
MS. LENSING: Well, I agree if we get the
notice, we cannot complain.
JUSTICE BREYER: And if you don't get it,
you can't complain, if you actually knew about it.
MS. LENSING: I -- I --
JUSTICE BREYER: If you didn't know about
it, then -- then you have a complaint.
MS. LENSING: Justice Breyer, I agree. If,
for instance, a plaintiff gave us the notice and the
EEOC didn't -- didn't file it, I agree, because notice
is the important thing; but that's not what happened.
That is just simply not what happened.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well -- well, then you'd
have the complaint if you didn't, et cetera, but so
what? In other words, if the EEOC wants to have a very
broad definition that turns 90 percent of its --
whatever this thing is called, the statement -- I
forgotten the name, sorry. What's the name of this
document? The intake questionnaire.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Intake questionnaire.
MS. LENSING: Intake questionnaire.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. If it has a broad
definition that says this counts as a charge, so what?
Let it do it. Who's hurt?
MS. LENSING: If they treat it as a charge
and give notice, I have no problem.
JUSTICE BREYER: And if they don't, you
complain about that.
MS. LENSING: Well, where do you -- the
problem is that there no place to complain. You didn't
get notice; you didn't get a chance to conciliate; the
entire --
JUSTICE BREYER: You complain just as you're
doing now, in court. You just the same words, but
instead of using the words as against the word "charge,"
you use those same words you've all said in your
excellent arguments, except you attack the fact you
didn't get the notice, and there you're really hurt. Or
if you're not, it doesn't matter.
MS. LENSING: Exactly. If you're not, it
doesn't matter.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, all right. So what's
wrong with that?
MS. LENSING: Well it's -- it's the
situation where you are hurt that's the problem. The
problem is that we need a better rule that's faithful to
the statute, where notice is given. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you're only --
when you say you're hurt, the only prejudice that you
rely on is the fact that you didn't have an opportunity
to go through prelitigation conciliation.
MS. LENSING: We didn't have prompt notice.
We could not investigate --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But -- but my point
is, you're not alleging prejudice from the lack of
prompt notice. In other words, it's not a situation
where you'd say if we had notice we would have done
this, and that would have prevented everything.
MS. LENSING: Well, we don't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your only prejudice
is the lack of conciliation period.
MS. LENSING: Well, I don't think that's the
only prejudice, and this is what somewhat speculatory
because it did not happen; but generally if you have
prompt notice, particularly without a lawsuit, you can
investigate; and if you don't have prompt notice,
sometimes you have destroyed documents in the regular
course of your business that are helpful to you. That
has happened to us. You have employees who are
witnesses who are gone; you don't know where they are.
You have all sorts of things that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we know whether that's
true in this case?
MS. LENSING: Do I believe that's true in
this case?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we know whether -- I
mean the difference -- what you are suggesting would be
perfectly fine is once the charge was filed, and this is
a lawsuit, and then you would investigate or whatever,
but you would be under exactly the same disadvantage if
the time lapse has meant that employees have left, that
you have -- you have removed evidence as old and
disposable. It wouldn't -- you would -- on your
scenario of what would be the right way to do this
lawsuit, you would be -- you would suffer the same
disabilities in terms of documents and witnesses.
MS. LENSING: That is true. Had -- had
this -- well, the charge, the only timely charge we did
get notice of, and so if there had not been a lawsuit we
could have investigated, and you're a little bit
estopped from the investigation when a lawsuit is
pending because you've got rules of discovery and that
sort of thing. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I thought you
said you were deprived of something else. I mean, the
statute provides for a conciliation process in which you
can talk to the employee and say, you know, what
happened? And you may well be able to satisfy the
employee with -- before -- before she lawyers up.
I think it's a big disadvantage to -- to
have no contact with the employee until there's a lawyer
on the other side, and you can't talk to her
confidentially; you can't make a conciliation notice. I
think that's a considerable disadvantage, and it's --
it's a situation that the statute did not envision.
MS. LENSING: And I agree, Justice Scalia.
I think they did -- the statute did envision it because
it does require prompt notice. That's -- that's exactly
where I was going next, is it's notice for investigation
and the opportunity to conciliate without a lawsuit
pending.
And particularly in this suit and in many
others now, when you have the piggyback situation, a
plaintiff is in a lawsuit and others are attempting to
piggyback off of her charge, she may not at that point
feel that she can conciliate just for her -- herself;
but before suit, that is a very good situation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, as a practical
matter, you can't conciliate after suit anyway. You can
negotiate with the lawyer --
MS. LENSING: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- on the other side.
MS. LENSING: That's absolutely right.
Mr. Chief Justice, I didn't finish the
question you had asked me about deference in the Auer
case. The Auer case is an interpretation of a
regulation, and in this case the regulation says nothing
about manifest intent, and that is just a wholly new
situation that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: How is it -- how is it new?
I thought that you argued for that test in the court of
appeals.
MS. LENSING: Well, in the court of appeals,
as the test had been administered by other courts which
required evidence --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, didn't -- didn't your
brief say that was the appropriate test?
MS. LENSING: Because in that court we were
bound by precedent and that was the test, but we said --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you -- I know you're
bound by precedent, but if you think it's wrong, you can
say it's wrong. And, as I understand, you did not say
it was wrong; you adopted it.
MS. LENSING: Well, we -- the manifest
intent test that we talked about was the one the courts
have used, which is the situation we were talking about,
where equitable tolling should occur. And that is where
you have, in the record, reliance on the EEOC that
you've done everything you need to do and this is a
charge.
That is not the case under the Second
Circuit's ruling, where they just say: Just look at the
document and if you think that she wanted you to file a
charge, that's enough. That's a very different intent
test than the other courts accept.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what is your test?
When is it a charge?
MS. LENSING: When notice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And don't tell me when
notice is given.
MS. LENSING: Yes, sir. Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: My goodness. It's like
saying there's no complaint until an answer is filed.
MS. LENSING: Well -- I'm not -- and that's
what I'm saying --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's just not true.
MS. LENSING: But -- but notice is required
for the suit. So, while a charge may be a charge before
notice is given, and I understand your reluctance to
accept that definition, but --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, only because I'm sane.
(Laughter.)
MS. LENSING: A point well taken.
We still -- we still get to the same place
if you -- if you accept the position that notice is
required in the statute and suit can't be brought.
Maybe there is a minimal charge, but suit cannot be
brought on that minimal charge until notice is given, is
a more sane way to put it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If she had the obligation
to give notice, you would have a much stronger argument,
but the statute places that burden on the EEOC, not on
the lay complainant.
MS. LENSING: The burden is on the EEOC, and
that is why there's equitable tolling. But the
plaintiff needs to demonstrate in the record she's done
everything she can.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But there can't be
equitable tolling unless she has really filed a charge.
So sooner or later -- you cannot run away from it --
you're going to have to give us a definition of what a
charge is.
MS. LENSING: A charge --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're only going to give
her equitable tolling if in fact she's, she's filed a
charge. And you don't give me any -- unless you want to
fall back on the manifest destiny rule or --
(Laughter.)
MS. LENSING: No. A charge needs to clearly
delineate that it's a charge. And I think the EEOC
could do that if they knew they had to live by that, and
then we're perfectly happy with the EEOC defining
"charge" as long as they consistently define it and give
us notice.
Your Honor, I'd like to reserve the rest of
my time if there are no more questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms.
Lensing.
Mr. Rose.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID L. ROSE
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. ROSE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I'd like to make two points initially. And
I'll make them briefly, and I'll try not to re-cover the
ground that's been covered by a number of the questions.
The first major point is that the statute
and the -- well, this has been made sort of -- the
statute and the regulations state that, after a charge
has been filed, the responsibility for sending the
notice and docketing the case is upon the commission.
It's not on the aggrieved individual. The argument that
a petitioner has -- the charging party, excuse me, or
aggrieved individual has a duty to provide notice is
just absolutely flatly inconsistent with the statute, as
Justice Scalia was just stating.
I want to make a second point which ha also
been alluded to by, I think, Justice Breyer and others.
The Petitioner suffered no harm from the fact Ms.
Kennedy filed a Form 283 rather than a Form 5, which is
entitled "Charge," because EEOC did not give prompt
notice to the defendant Federal Express, the Petitioner
here, on May 30th. EEOC did not send the notice of the
filing of the charge until sometime after August 20th,
2002. That is, it was more than 60 days. So that even
though the charge was filed and -- EEOC did absolutely
nothing with it. No notice. And it's in the appendix,
if you look at Joint Appendix 294-296.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is this after the real
charge was filed or what everybody concedes --
MR. ROSE: Form 5.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The charge form.
MR. ROSE: The charge Form 5 was file on --
well, she signed it on the 30th. It may have been filed
a couple of days later. But whatever it was, that was
submitted. I sent it to the EEOC by, I think, FedEx.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But suit was pending at
that time.
(Laughter.)
MR. ROSE: Well, I used FedEx --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's pretty risky.
MR. ROSE: I used FedEx for a record because
I can use their tracking. Some of the tracking
documents are in the joint appendix. I dealt with -- I
dealt with FedEx in the Bost case. I call it Bost. I'm
not sure whether it's "BOSST" or "BOEST." He calls
himself Tony, so I don't know.
In any event --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Answer my question. Was
suit already filed at that point?
MR. ROSE: Yes, sir. Suit had been filed
earlier.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. ROSE: All right, let me address your
question, if I may. There is a period for conciliation.
We have records from the EEOC which we sent copies of to
opposing counsel by e-mail yesterday, and perhaps we
should have done it earlier, that show that something
like 240 -- I may have the wrong number -- over 200
cases that were filed -- charges, excuse me, by EEO --
filed by employees of FedEx with the EEOC. Not one had
been conciliated from 1997 through 2005. Not one.
Zero.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait. I'm sorry. 247
during that whole period?
MR. ROSE: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the only number of
mistakes they have made; is that what you're saying?
MR. ROSE: No. That's the only mistakes
that we know that EEOC made with respect to -- I'm not
saying that all of them should have been served or
anything like that, but there were --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm astounded if that's the
only number of mistakes they made, from 19 --
MR. ROSE: No, no. This is only with
respect to FedEx.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, with respect to FedEx.
MR. ROSE: And it's age claims.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh.
MR. ROSE: That date is -- I had to ask for
it, but it is public, and I checked again yesterday with
counsel for the EEOC, which I'm also representing here
today.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But are you telling us
stuff that's not in the record at all? Why is that
relevant to the argument here?
MR. ROSE: Well, it's relevant because this
is a complaint that was dismissed before any evidence
was taken, and therefore any set of facts that's alleged
in the complaint is assumed to be true for purposes of
its trial B motion. So there was no discovery. We
didn't have a chance to do any discovery. The district
court threw us out on a motion to dismiss. Now, it was
morphed into a summary judgment motion functionally, but
on the very limited topic of what there was.
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the point of these
statistics? To show that conciliation wouldn't have
done any good? Is that what you --
MR. ROSE: Yes. And, furthermore, I cite to
you the fact that since --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I thought conciliation
was an important policy of the EEOC.
MR. ROSE: EEOC does very little within 2
months, Your Honor, of anything, of receipt of the
charge.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you want us to write
an opinion saying, we're not concerned with
conciliation? We just --
MR. ROSE: No. I think conciliation is
important. I think what -- if this is treated as the
charge, as I think it should be, under the definition in
the regulation, it's -- it's in 16 --29 CFR 1626. It's
in 3.6 and 8(b) of that regulation. The original
document is a charge because it identified the
Respondent, identified the kind of discrimination, and
the person signed it. That's all that's needed under
the regulation. That regulation is lawful.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if the person fills out
an intake form, checks the box that says "I do not
consent to have my employer notified"?
MR. ROSE: I think that's a question that's
not presented here, and I think that's a question that
is best -- best left to EEOC. The -- that form says on
it that we don't -- you don't need to let us notify.
There's a footnote or something. We don't -- you don't
need to let us -- you don't need to agree at this stage
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's -- what's wrong with
this? Why don't I -- I mean, I do believe that the
thing either is a charge or isn't a charge before the
EEOC decides whether it's going to give notice or not.
It either is or isn't.
Now, what about this: It is a charge if it
reasonably appears to be a charge, or if you want to say
"manifest intent," that's okay, too.
Now, if you signed a document which -- which
says that it is a prefiling document and the purpose is
to discuss a future charge, it seems to me you know, or
ought to know, that this is not a charge.
And we can't run the system for people who
are either illiterate or don't even have friends who are
literate. We can't run a system that way. So I look at
this, and I say this is not a charge.
MR. ROSE: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, if the EEOC chooses to
give notice, then I guess you could say one that's close
to the boundary line becomes a charge retroactively, and
there is -- there is no harm done. You can have the
counseling, and so forth.
But when you come in with something that
doesn't look like a charge, it seems to me if there is
no notice given and you get into the situation that is
here where the company has been deprived of the
conciliation opportunity, deprived of the opportunity to
preserve evidence and whatnot, it seems to me the fault
should lie on your client, because she filed something
that any reasonable person should know is not a charge.
MR. ROSE: Your Honor, I differ on this. I
think many reasonable persons don't know what a charge
is, particularly if, like Miss Kennedy, she had never
filed a charge before. And just let me complete it if I
may.
She had never filed a charge before. She
had never complained. She had tried to complain
internally, but she had never filed a charge before.
She didn't know what it was. I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Whatever it was, this thing
says it's a precharge document.
MR. ROSE: Your Honor, it says -- if you
look at the two-part form, it's very small writing.
It's at the bottom. It doesn't say it's a precharge
form. It says the purpose of this questionnaire is to
solicit information to enable the Commission to avoid
mistakes.
And then it says routine uses, and it says
potential charges, complaints or allegations, and to
provide counseling --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is where -- you're
reading from where?
MR. ROSE: It's two -- I'm sorry. It's 265,
I believe, (J) 265, it's the two-page printout. And the
handwriting is her handwriting on the top. That's a
Xerox of her handwriting.
Justice Scalia, I would further add that I
-- she was not my client when she filled this out, as
this document makes clear, because she checked the box
"not represented."
By the time I asked her if she had filed a charge,
and she said, oh, yes, I went and got the document from
the EEOC, and I sent it in.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that in the record?
MR. ROSE: No. But -- but it is, Your Honor
-- this is in the complaint, the facts that are supposed
to be alleged. As we said in the complaint, that the
parties had given notice to EEOC of the overall system.
Incidentally, there is another Respondent
named Robertson, who did have a live charge and a right
to sue letter which was running out, which is why we
filed this in May rather than in June or July.
I also -- I think I said that EEOC did not,
in fact, give notice to EEOC -- to FedEx until sometime
after August 20th, which was much more than 60 days from
the filing of the charge. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Rose, I'm having
trouble figuring out -- she not only filed this intake
questionnaire; she also filed a lengthy affidavit.
MR. ROSE: Yes, sir.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where did all this
stuff come from?
MR. ROSE: She had friends who had filed
charges before. She had met with them. Much of this I
can --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did these friends
file charges on intake questionnaires?
MR. ROSE: They had all filled out intake
questionnaires. Many of them had filed charges
thereafter.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: On Form 5.
MR. ROSE: Yes. I mean, there's a whole --
she is from the same station -- she was from the same
station as Mr. Freeman, who filed a suit way back in
1999 with a group of other people. So this language was
around, and the couriers were friends, some of them at
least, and they discussed the matter with each other.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you know why she
signed the intake questionnaire on two different dates?
MR. ROSE: Yes, Your Honor. Because I spoke
to her in January, and I believe it was -- this is not
on the record, but it's compatible with my allegations
in the complaint. This is not on the record, but she --
I -- I never had seen her in person, and I spoke to her,
and she said she had been to EEOC, and she filed it.
And then I called her in January and said --
late January, I think -- did EEOC give you a number? I
didn't know the difference then between a complaint --
between a Form 5 and a Form 283.
It was not something -- I had been
practicing mostly Title VII work, but I had had some age
cases before then. And I didn't know the difference in
the forms.
And I had a form on my computer that I had
people fill out which says "charge," but -- so she -- I
said they must have lost it. Why don't you go down
and -- she said, well, I'll file it again. I said fine.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You were
representing her at that point?
MR. ROSE: By February, I -- I don't think
we had the retainer, but I had talked to her, and I --
and she signed the retainer either in late January or
early February.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you think -- why do
you think they must have lost it? Why did you think
they must have lost it: Because she hadn't been given a
number?
MR. ROSE: Yes. Because it hadn't been
docketed. It's like a clerk. They -- you -- it's
similar to what the courts -- the courts do. They get a
new thing, and they docket it. The problem with EEOC
is, when they get a new thing that's not a Form 5, they
don't docket it. This didn't get docketed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even if they treat it as a
charge, they don't docket it?
MR. ROSE: I don't know when they docketed
the form, the Form 5, that she filed. But the timing
suggests they did not docket it until August, sometime
after August.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I really think the problem
here is the EEOC, rather than anybody else.
MR. ROSE: I think that's exactly right,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It does, indeed, have this
form which says -- which says that its purpose --
information provided on this form will be used by
Commission employees to determine the existence of the
facts relevant to a decision as to whether the
Commission has jurisdiction and to provide such
precharge filing counseling, blah, blah, blah.
All of that, however, is contained as part
of the Privacy Act statement.
MR. ROSE: Exactly.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if the filer is not
interested in keeping any of it confidential, I wouldn't
even read the Privacy Act.
MR. ROSE: Well, she probably didn't, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what kind of an
agency is this?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose they made a mistake
here.
MR. ROSE: I'm sorry, Your Honor?
JUSTICE BREYER: What I think Miss Lensing,
one of her more basic points is this: There is a
statute. And the statute says the EEOC shall send
prompt notice in part to the conciliation. And she
adds, if we get the notice, we also start getting
evidence and preserving it and talking to people. There
are a lot of things they would like to do with that
notice.
MR. ROSE: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, I replied to that,
well, okay, they complain about the lack of notice. But
her response is, sure, they sometimes don't give notice
when they file a charge. That's just a mistake. But if
you start calling these documents charges, well, they
never give notice, so they will never do it. It will be
a big problem, so, therefore, don't call them charges.
Now, I want to know what your answer is to
the first part of what I said. My -- I was assuming
that if the employer is really hurt, there is a statute
and a rule and the statute and the rules say you have to
give notice and if they are hurt by that, they can
complain about it.
MR. ROSE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: But they must make mistakes
in their history when they file charges and didn't give
notice. So what does the law tell us? If you found it
any case ever where the EEOC didn't give the notice, now
the complainant files a lawsuit and it's not the
complainant's fault, her response is work out some kind
of equitable tolling. But there must be law on this,
because this couldn't -- this is a big agency and they
must have sometimes in the past forgotten to give
notice.
MR. ROSE: Oh, it's --
JUSTICE BREYER: What does the law say
happens when they don't give notice?
MR. ROSE: I think the law says that it
could be a defense but it's an affirmative defense and
it's not --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it wouldn't be a
defense. I mean, it's not this complainant's fault.
It's the --
MR. ROSE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: You'd have to work out some
kind of equitable tolling or something. I think she's
right about that. There is no law to your knowledge or
what is there?
MR. ROSE: Well, I'd say the law is, Your
Honor, what the regulation says. The regulation was
adopted in 1983 after notice published in the 1981
regulation says that any document that has, identifies
the employer, essentially respondent, and identifies the
nature, general nature of the charge and is signed is a
document. By the way?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where does that appear?
Where does that appear?
MR. ROSE: It's in all the, it's in the
joint appendix, Your Honor. It's toward the end of the
joint appendix.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: 351?
MR. ROSE: That sounds right. Yes. It's
351 if you look on the 351, three, it says in the middle
there, in the middle of that dense paragraph, it says
that most clearly in six which is on 351.
JUSTICE SCALIA: In its very definition of a
"charge," it says a charge shall be in writing and shall
name the prospective respondent and shall generally --
shall generally allege the discriminatory acts. That's
what it must contain.
MR. ROSE: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't say that
anything that contains that is a charge.
MR. ROSE: Oh, I think it does.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I could write out something
that contains all three of those things. Would that be
a charge?
MR. ROSE: Well, let me -- let me refer you
to the next page, then, Your Honor, which is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. Let's try
something else.
MR. ROSE: -- which is (a) and (b).
"Notwithstanding the provisions of (a) of 8 above of
this section, a charge is sufficient when the Commission
receives from the person making the charge either a
written statement or information reduced to writing by
the Commission that conforms to the requirements of
1626," which I just read on page 351.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I like my cite
better. If you look at 1626.3 on page 351, it says:
'Charge' shall mean a statement filed with the
Commission by, or on behalf of, an aggrieved person
which alleges that the main prospective defendant has
engaged in, or is about to engage in, actions in
violation" --
MR. ROSE: I like that one, too, Your Honor.
(Laughter.)
MR. ROSE: It's the same thing.
JUSTICE ALITO: But if an employee files
something like that and says I don't consent to
notification of the employer, can that be a charge?
MR. ROSE: I think that it -- it really
depends whether the employee has put on top of it -- I
think you need -- I think there is a -- we take the
position that if it meets the definition of 1626.3, or
the other parts of 1626, it is a charge.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then, all intake
questionnaires are a charge, because they all contain
that. I mean that definition is simply inconsistent
with the -- with the agency's assertion that it has
something called an intake questionnaire which does not
constitute a charge unless -- I don't know -- unless
there's manifest whatever it is.
That's inconsistent because all of those
intake questionnaires contain all of that information --
MR. ROSE: Well, I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- set forth in 26.3.
MR. ROSE: I think the last question was
whether if -- if she checked the other box, it would be;
and I think that there is no consistency on what EEOC
has done in that situation.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, there may be none,
but if the -- if the employee indicates by the box
checked that the employee does not want the company to
know that the employee is making whatever this is, this
statement --
MR. ROSE: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- how can it be regarded
as a charge against the employer which sets in effect a
litigation process?
MR. ROSE: Well, I think that's why the
better reading probably, as Your Honor suggests, is that
it's not a charge if that's all the form is, and she
checks only --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you're okay because on
that criterion your -- your client said, yes, you can
tell them?
MR. ROSE: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Rose.
Mr. Heytens.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF TOBY J. HEYTENS
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES
AS AMICUS CURIAE
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
MR. HEYTENS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Heytens, let me tell
you going in that my -- my main concern in this case,
however the decision comes out, is to do something that
will require the EEOC to get its act in order, because
this is nonsense: These regulations that are
contradicted by forms; this failure to give notice, but
it's okay because it's a charge anyway.
This whole situation can be traceable back
to the agency, and I -- whoever ends up bearing the
burden of it, it's the agency's fault, and this scheme
has to be revised.
MR. HEYTENS: The agency absolutely agrees
with that, Your Honor, and the agency has taken a number
of concrete steps, some of which we illustrate in our
brief, to deal with what in reality is a very serious
problem.
I think it is important to point out,
therefore, right at the start, that the problems that
arose in this case are in some measure -- not
exclusively but in some measure -- a reflection of when
it arose.
Ms. Kennedy submitted her form in December
of 2001. That was before the Edelman litigation; and,
most importantly, it was before the February 21st, 2002,
memo that was issued in response to the Edelman
litigation.
Now, some members of the Court may recall
that one of the problems that surfaced at the time of
Edelman was that the agency, or at least some of the
field offices of the agency, had a practice of not
serving notice until after they received a verified Form
5. And the February 21st memo was to say that needs to
stop right now because our statutory obligations require
us to serve notice within 10 days of the charge.
So that happened immediately following the
Edelman litigation, which was, regrettably, after this
case arose.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me.
MR. HEYTENS: Sure.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's within 10 days of
the charge, but that assumes, it seems to me, what's to
be proven. I mean what is the charge?
MR. HEYTENS: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If -- if the prefiling, the
intake thing, is not a charge, there is no problem.
MR. HEYTENS: That's correct, as well,
Justice Scalia, and it's important that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can you not make that not a
charge by saying in bold letters on the top: This is
not a charge. If you want a charge, ask for Form 5?
MR. HEYTENS: Two responses to that, Justice
Scalia:
First of all I think it's important to
understand that, from our perspective, the test is an
objective intent test that looks to the intent of the
employee, not the intent of the EEOC in promulgating a
form.
And the reason that's important --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do the courts have to
struggle with this when the agency could put in bold
letters at the top: This is a charge or this is not a
charge?
Why do Federal district judges have to
inquire into manifest intent from now until doomsday?
MR. HEYTENS: The fundamental source of the
problem, Justice Scalia, is, as this Court has
recognized, the vast majority of people who initiate
EEOC proceedings are lay people who aren't familiar with
the statute.
And the other dilemma is that a great many
of the initial contacts with the EEOC -- the EEOC, as we
set forth in our brief, got 176,000 initial contacts in
fiscal year 2006. Of those, 32,000 of them came in by
mail -- mail from lay people who have no --
JUSTICE BREYER: And the practical problem:
I want to know where do I read what the definition of a
"charge" is in the EEOC rules. The three criteria that
it has certain information in it can't be the rule. It
can't be the rule because we already know that it isn't
a charge if the person says I don't want it to become
public.
So, where do I read the rule that you just
said? That it -- an intake questionnaire that satisfies
these three conditions becomes a charge if it reflects
the manifest intent of the person who files it that it
be a charge.
You said that. That's a pretty modestly
clear rule, except it isn't totally. And they qualify
-- where do I read that?
MR. HEYTENS: Certainly, Justice Breyer.
The definition of "charge" is the one the Chief Justice
cited. It is in 1626.3 of the regulations, and that's
--
JUSTICE BREYER: We use the word there
"manifest intent"?
MR. HEYTENS: The word "manifest intent" is
not set forth expressly there.
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah. Well, I read those
regs, and those regs had a definition that can't
possibly be right as applied to "intake questionnaire,"
because they make it a charge when the person says I
don't want notice. So we know that isn't the thing.
I also know what you just said does sound
like a rule. I just want to know where to read it,
because I don't think you'd refer to a rule of an
agency, though normally we do -- but you don't refer to
a rule that doesn't exist; you don't refer to a rule
that nowhere can be found; you don't refer to a rule
that is internally inconsistent. So, before I defer, I
would just like to know where the clear rule that you
stated can be found.
MR. HEYTENS: Just as a point of
clarification, Justice Breyer, the three requirements
that I believe you just referred to are in 1626.6, which
is the provision of the regulations labeled "Form of
Charges."
We are saying that it's in construction of
1626.3, the definition of "charge." Now, I concede that
the --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I just want to read it
somewhere.
MR. HEYTENS: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: So that if I were not here
having you in front of me, as many people don't have you
in front of them, where I would go to read just what you
said.
MR. HEYTENS: Four places, Justice Breyer:
First of all, you could go to the final rule
as it was promulgated in 1983. There was an issue that
came up when the agency promulgated the final rule that
the definition of "charge" versus the definition of
"complaint," both of which are defined terms in 1626.3,
was ambiguous and unclear.
And in the final rule at Volume 48 of the
Federal Register, page 138, the EEOC stated that one of
the distinctions between a charge and a complaint is
that a complaint is a way for the EEOC to receive
information about allegations of discrimination where
"the party providing the information does not wish to
file a charge."
That was in the final --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is a complaint different
from an intake questionnaire?
MR. HEYTENS: In our view, yes, Justice
Ginsburg. The complaint would include, in a typical
case, an intake questionnaire, but a complaint is
broader. A complaint refers under the regulations to
any way that the EEOC receives information about
discrimination.
The reason that's contained in the Age Act
regulations is because, unlike Title VII, the EEOC
doesn't need a formal charge in order to initiate its
own proceedings.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why should we defer
to an agency regulation when people in the agency hardly
ever follow it?
MR. HEYTENS: Mr. Chief Justice, I think
it's not fair to say that people in the agency very
rarely follow it. We would agree that in certain --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you didn't --
in this case you didn't treat it as a charge, because
you didn't give notice.
MR. HEYTENS: It's true that in this case
the document was not docketed as a charge, and that's
true; we know that. The problem is, because it arose
before Edelman and because it arose before the February
21st, 2002, memo, we simply don't know why it wasn't
treated as a charge.
JUSTICE BREYER: But you said there were
going to be four places. I want to write them down.
MR. HEYTENS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: One is 48 Fed. Reg. 148?
MR. HEYTENS: 48 Federal Register 138,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: 138. Now, the other three.
MR. HEYTENS: Yes, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is that in CFR?
MR. HEYTENS: It is not codified in the CFR.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, okay.
MR. HEYTENS: The second place it is in
section 2.2 (b) of the compliance manual. That language
has been contained since at least 1988, if not sooner,
and it's quoted on page 16 of our brief. The third
place you would look is the February 21st, 2002 memo
which is on the EEOC's Web site. And it's also in the
appendix to our brief, which directs use of the
compliance manual; and it's also the August 13th, 2007
memo, which is also attached to our brief, and what is
also contained on the agency's Web site. So this is not
something --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do we give Chevron
deference to things like your internal compliance manual
and these other memos?
MR. HEYTENS: We certainly do not assert,
Mr. Chief Justice, that the compliance manual gets
Chevron deference. In our view, the compliance manual
represents the agency's considered judgment about the
proper interpretation of its regulations, and is thus
entitled to deference under Auer. The Petitioners don't
allege that our regulations don't get Chevron deference.
The EEOC has clearly been given the authority to issue
regulations dealing with this topic.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Heytens, is it true
that the Form 5 for somebody who's not represented by
counsel is usually done by EEOC itself? Is it that
true?
MR. HEYTENS: In situations where the Form 5
is filled out in the office, Justice Ginsburg, yes,
that's correct. Sometimes people mail in modified Form
5, but official issues where it's done during the office
visit, my understanding is that the typical practice
it's filled out by the EEOC office.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Heytens, what's your
solution for the situation where the EEOC treats it as a
charge, but doesn't give notice, which is what has
happened here? How do you think that should play out?
MR. HEYTENS: In situations where the
employer does not receive notice, Justice Scalia?
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right.
MR. HEYTENS: The first thing we think -- at
that point, Justice Scalia, I think that task is to try
to recreate as well as possible the situation that
should have existed, and the Commission agrees notice
should have been given. So the first thing, as we say
in our brief, the employer should be entitled to a stay
of the litigation for up to 60 days to attempt to intent
to work out, absent discovery requests, absent motions
practices -- the problem -- Justice Scalia, you raised
the problem that at that point, the person probably has
a lawyer and you can't talk to him, but there's really
-- but I think that's conceptually a separate question,
for two reasons. First, they might have had a lawyer
when they filed the charge, in which case the same
problem you discussed would arise; but the flip side is
it they could also be pro se after they filed a lawsuit,
in which case the ex parte bar wouldn't count either.
So I think it's conceptually, although I can see it's
probably related in practice, it's at least conceptually
different.
The second thing we think, and it's been
explored during the oral arguments so far, if the
employer could allege or show some concrete prejudice as
a result of not having received notice, then the
district court should take that into account. But in
this case Federal Express has simply not alleged any
concrete prejudice.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's on the notice
point. Going back to the other, more important point,
your words that I found quite useful are the "manifest
intent," that shows a manifest -- are those words going
to be in these four sources that I look up?
MR. HEYTENS: The precise words manifest?
JUSTICE BREYER: No. I suspect not.
MR. HEYTENS: Well, then --
JUSTICE BREYER: Therefore -- I'm --
MR. HEYTENS: Well, but I would say, Justice
Breyer, the word intend is in fact in the 1983 final
rule; it says where the person "does not intend to file"
--I apologize, Justice Breyer. As I stand here, the
word is "wish," "does not wish to file a charge."
The language in the compliance manual which
is repeated in the memorandum is well, is it states that
you look at whether the submission constitutes a clear
request for the agency to act, which we think, though
not exactly the words manifest --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Just to get one thing
perfectly clear in my mind, does that mean if the intake
questionnaire is checked not consent, that would not be
a charge?
MR. HEYTENS: Mr. Chief Justice, may I ask
-- in our view that if she had checked the box saying do
not disclose for identity, this would not have been a
charge. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Heytens.
Miss Lensing, you have a minute left.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CONNIE L. LENSING,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. LENSING: First of all, in this case the
affidavit attached to the intake questionnaire began --
and this is at Joint Appendix 266 -- with the statement,
"I have been assured of confidentiality by the EEOC."
So it is a confidentiality concern.
Congress determined that there must be an
opportunity for conciliation before a lawsuit was filed.
We never saw the numbers that are not in the record,
that were testified to today, but if 247 charges were
filed against FedEx, in that period of time we had 25
age discrimination cases. So conciliation before a case
does work. And I appreciate those numbers because it --
it just shows that we conciliate, we look into it, but
you can't do it once the lawsuit is filed.
The best rule obviously are the clear forms
that many of you have mentioned today. One can say it's
not a charge. The other one can say it is a charge, and
this could all be a situation where you'd have only rare
occurrences where notice was not given.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do we fix it? You
haven't gotten notice, you haven't had a chance to
conciliate -- how do we fix it?
MS. LENSING: Well, this particular case,
she could -- may I answer?
She could have filed her lawsuit, she had a
charge. She chose not to file a subsequent lawsuit 60
days later. This lawsuit was properly dismissed. The
opportunity to file another lawsuit was there. She
didn't need equitable tolling because she caught it and
she filed a charge, indisputable, and we did get notice
of the charge in July. I think it was filed the very
end of May; we got it in July.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Miss Lensing.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:04 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
59:22 aggrieved 30:5,7 appears 35:2 a.m 1:14 3:2 boundary 35:15
46:21 agree 12:8 17:7 43:17,18 54:16 b 33:9 44:15 Breyer 21:2,7
21:9,16,18 58:12 54:11 21:11,14,16,21
28:3,8 53:14 appreciate 12:2 13:1 30:11 41:7,10
47:9 53:5 Ah 51:3 4:19 26:20 57:4 50:5,20,24
AL 1:7 argued 26:14 bar 56:17 51:3,18,25
56:23 arose 47:24 48:1 3:8 29:19 briefly 29:23
37:12 57:1 asked 9:20 26:8 58:9 bringing 8:10
alleging 23:13 assert 54:24 15:16 19:1 21:24 22:5
alluded 30:11 Assistant 1:20 36:24 38:21 53:2
52:13 assumes 48:21 believed 5:18 7:9 8:13 28:9
47:2 assured 58:13 believes 8:25 burden 28:15,17
53:5 11:15 16:15,17 attached 20:25 58:24 business 24:1
20:15 27:21 54:18 58:11 better 4:1 11:6
42:1 attack 22:20 11:15 23:4 C
17:2 59:8 attempt 56:7 44:23 46:15 C 2:1 3:1
41:5 anybody 16:18 attempting big 4:24 25:8 call 11:23 31:13
47:14,17 17:16 40:11 25:22 41:25 42:15 41:25
48:9,10 anyway 26:2 Auer 20:12 26:8 biggest 6:20 called 21:25
51:11 47:12 26:9 55:4 bit 6:18 24:23 39:1 45:19
53:10,10 apologize 57:15 August 30:17 blah 40:20,20,20 calling 41:23
57:20 appeal 14:24,24 37:20 40:8,9 BOEST 31:14 calls 31:14
47:15 appeals 26:15 authority 55:6 bold 49:4,15 4:20 6:14 9:1
55:2 26:16 available 4:5 BOSST 31:14 9:13 10:11
22:18 24:11,21 20:9 23:6,12 company 35:21 5:19,21 8:13
13:12,14 24:21 25:23 23:18 26:7 46:7 22:14 25:18,24
17:2,21 27:8,12,15 29:15,20 37:22 compatible 26:2 58:22
24:6 28:1,1,10,11 38:1,6,11,18 38:22 59:6
26:9,9,10 28:22,25 29:1 39:13 43:19 complain 21:4 conciliated 5:2
30:4 29:4,7,8,11 44:22 46:23 21:10,12 22:11 32:5
42:11 30:2,14,17,19 47:4 50:21 22:13,16 36:7 conciliation
48:17 30:23,25 31:1 53:9,12,15 41:20 42:6 3:13 4:25 5:4
33:23 34:4,7 54:21,25 58:1 complainant 6:1,16 14:14
57:1 34:23,23 35:1 58:5 59:18 18:5 28:16 15:2 17:4 23:9
59:7 35:2,6,7,11,15 chooses 35:13 42:12 23:19 25:4,11
35:19,25 36:2 chose 13:16 complainant's 31:23 33:15,19
32:3 37:15,21 39:10 Circuit's 27:10 complained 41:13 58:16,20
58:20 40:5 41:22 cite 20:14 33:17 36:7 concrete 47:19
44:24 45:9,14 50:22 complaint 4:18 confidential
53:14 46:16 47:12 claim 9:22 12:22 13:1 confidentiality
15:17 49:4,5,5,16,17 32:21 21:15,22 27:21 confidentially
50:20 50:7,10,14,16 clarification 33:6,8 37:11 25:11
50:21 51:6,23 51:18 37:12 38:23 conforms 44:20
22:14 57:16,25 58:4 clearly 3:11 12:1 complaints CONNIE 1:16
59:5 59:1,1,10,14 15:18 17:13 36:19 2:3,11 3:7 58:8
charges 7:5 55:6 completed 10:6 45:8 57:24
4:2,12 32:3 36:19 client 35:24 37:3 completely 12:8 25:12
7:2,16,16 38:4,7,9 41:23 46:19 15:2,14 19:16 considered 55:2
9:1,3 41:25 42:9 clock 12:22 compliance consistency 46:3
51:21 58:18 close 35:14 20:24 54:11,17 consistently
charging 30:6 codified 54:8 54:22,25 55:1 29:11
checked 32:24 come 16:6 17:17 57:17 constitute 45:20
12:2,3 37:4 46:2,7 18:1 35:18 computer 39:9 constitutes
57:24 58:2 38:2 concede 51:23 57:19
14:15 checks 34:12 comes 13:1,4 concedes 30:23 construction
16:3,4,6 46:17 47:8 conceptually 51:22
Chevron 20:11 commences 3:20 56:12,18,19 contact 8:24
18:3,7 54:21 55:1,5 commission concern 47:7 25:9
Chief 3:3,9 5:23 30:4 36:16 58:14 contacts 50:1,2
11:13 12:8 40:17,19 44:17 concerned 33:25 contain 44:3
22:6,8 13:10,22 14:13 44:20,25 56:4 conciliate 3:20 45:16,23
54:12,19 dates 38:19 dense 43:22 dismiss 4:13 5:8 53:21
days 4:14,18 5:8 deprived 25:3 14:8 8:25 9:5,9,24
18:15,22 30:18 destiny 29:5 dismissing 6:6 16:22 17:9,11
49:1 48:14,20 56:7 determination 24:16 21:18,23 27:6
59:11 11:10 distinctions 28:15,17 29:8
32:25 dealing 9:6 55:7 40:17 district 33:10 30:19 31:4,24
dealt 31:12,13 determined 49:18 56:25 32:4,13,25
35:17 decide 9:15,20 differ 36:1 40:3,5,8 34:24 35:13
40:20 20:1,2 difference 4:24 docketed 39:24 37:8,13,18,19
13:17 12:25 15:20 docketing 30:4 40:1,11 41:12
24:1 45:1 52:22 56:20 36:11 37:4,7 55:6,11,18,20
4:15,22 42:25 16:13 documents EEOC's 4:7
10:15 defer 20:11,12 dilemma 49:25 11:25 23:25 17:1,21 19:1
22:17 51:14 53:9 directs 54:16 24:19 31:12 20:20 54:15
deference 20:18 disabilities 41:23 effect 5:7 6:22
33:11 26:8 54:22 24:19 doing 16:18 46:12
48:7 55:1,4,5 disadvantage 22:17 effort 8:12
56:25 deferral 18:24 24:13 25:8,12 doomsday 49:19 efforts 5:21 6:1
39:25 defined 52:12 discovery 14:19 11:18 either 13:7
49:14 defining 29:10 24:25 33:9,10 duty 30:7 20:14 34:23,25
45:13,17 50:6 58:20 32:1 emphasis 5:1
44:2 easily 8:24 10:13 11:1
46:6,7,8 evidence 15:12 February 39:15 59:14,15 14:15 15:4,7
24:15 26:18 39:18 48:4,12 filer 8:21 40:24 15:18,22 17:14
21:1 41:15 Fed 54:2 17:16 42:12 18:2,23,25,25
32:4 ex 56:17 Federal 1:3 3:4 45:7 50:15 19:2,6 30:13
exact 4:5 30:15 49:18 filing 5:10,11,13 30:13,24,25
6:17,18 16:1 20:3 57:1 30:17 37:21 36:13,15 38:11
15:23 22:23 24:13 FedEx 31:4,8,10 40:20 39:4,4,9 40:2,7
18:8 25:16 40:12,23 31:13 32:4,19 fill 9:24 10:23 40:7,15,16
42:3 57:21 32:20 37:19 10:24 39:10 46:16 48:2,11
45:9 excellent 22:20 58:19 filled 3:23 9:9 49:5,12 51:20
55:24 exclusively fee 5:10,11,13 10:12,14,22 55:10,13,15
47:25 6:17,22 11:1,16 18:2 formal 14:14
32:3 48:18 field 9:13,15 55:14,18 forms 15:21
existence 40:17 48:10 52:21 57:13 forth 10:17
45:2 10:25 14:11,12 15:7 find 8:24 11:17 forward 9:23
22:15 expressly 51:2 38:7 39:12 finished 16:15 57:7
20:18 e-mail 31:25 52:20 57:14,16 29:25 42:2 19:15,18
55:4 59:10,12 49:8 52:8 56:1 Freeman 38:14
F filed 4:13 5:1,4 56:5,13 58:10 friend 11:14
fact 15:22 22:20 7:16,17,21,22 fits 9:8,22 38:3,6,16
12:16 30:12 33:18 12:3 13:15,19 flatly 30:8 functionally
37:19 57:13 18:5,13,19 flip 56:15 33:12
15:5,6 facts 33:7 37:11 19:7,11 24:11 follow 12:24 fundamental
28:18,22 40:18 27:21 28:22 53:11,14 49:20
42:14 failure 47:11 29:3 30:3,13 following 48:15 further 37:2
59:13 fair 53:13 30:19,23 31:2 footnote 18:25 furthermore
fall 29:5 32:4 35:24 forgotten 22:1 future 11:6 35:6
favor 8:5 58:19,23 59:9 11:16 12:1 generally 23:22
government Honor 10:2 13:3 30:7 24:12
great 49:25 18:25 27:19 5:14 24:23
5:3 9:4,19 29:24 36:1,12 37:10 information 14:20 24:24
12:18 group 38:15 38:20 40:13 9:21 10:4 25:17
16:14 guess 13:22 41:3,9 43:8,17 15:15 16:1,12 involved 5:25
17:20 35:14 44:12 45:4 36:16 40:16 issue 15:12 52:9
46:15 47:18 44:19 45:23 55:6
24:5,9 H hurt 21:7 22:7 50:8 52:18,19 issued 48:5
36:21 ha 30:10 22:21 23:3,7 53:3 issues 55:16
55:9 handwriting 42:3,5 initial 50:1,2 it'll 19:25
36:25,25 37:1 initially 10:18
17:3 23:22 idea 16:4 initiate 49:22 J 1:20 2:7 36:24
19:22 happened 16:7 identical 4:14 53:7 46:25
21:3,4 16:24 17:8 identified 34:7,8 inquire 49:19 January 38:21
28:14,24 21:19,20 24:2 identifies 43:10 instance 7:3 39:1,2,17
25:6 48:15 43:11 10:2,11 21:17 joint 30:21
34:24 55:22 identity 58:3 intake 9:7,21,21 31:12 43:17,18
37:19 happening 8:25 illiterate 35:9 10:22 15:4 58:12
41:21,24 16:20 illustrate 47:19 16:2,11,19 judges 49:18
happens 12:18 imagine 12:20 17:6,16,23 judgment 33:12
47:11 12:19 42:20 immediately 22:2,3,4 34:12 55:2
54:21 happy 29:10 48:15 37:23 38:7,8 July 37:17 59:15
harm 30:12 important 12:24 38:19 45:15,19 59:16
11:17 hear 3:3 34:3 47:22 50:13 51:5 jurisdiction
27:18 heavily 20:10 49:2,8,13 57:4 52:23 53:1 11:11 40:19
35:20 helpful 24:1 importantly 57:23 58:11 Justice 1:21 3:3
39:21 hesitancy 8:2 48:4 intend 57:13,14 3:9,21 4:10,21
56:5 59:3 Heytens 1:20 Incidentally intent 12:6 5:3,23 6:21 7:6
47:4,6,17 include 52:25 35:3 49:10,10 8:4,18 9:4,19
17:18 49:6,20 50:20 incompetence 50:25 51:1 11:13 12:8,18
23:9 51:1,17 52:2,7 12:10 56:7 57:6 13:10,22 14:5
52:5,8 52:24 53:12,18 inconsistent interested 40:25 14:7,13 15:3
25:17 54:24 55:9,13 30:8 45:17,22 internal 54:22 17:20 18:9,16
29:2 55:19,23 56:1 51:14 internally 36:8 18:20,23 19:2
47:7 57:8,10,12 indicates 46:6 51:14 19:6,12,17,20
57:4,6 58:1,6 indispensable interpretation 19:24 20:4,9
hold 4:17 indisputable interrupt 7:6 21:16,21 22:3
25:2,14 42:13 43:4 23:23 24:12,18 lie 35:24 26:2 38:17
knew 21:12 29:9 24:22,24 25:18 light 6:2 59:22
27:14,17 know 6:24 7:19 25:22 42:12 limited 33:13 mean 4:11 5:24
28:4 7:20 8:19,22 56:16 58:16,23 limits 9:2 7:14,18,24
29:2 11:13,15,20,21 59:9,10,11,12 line 35:15 14:1 20:13
30:9 13:18 14:10,18 lawyer 9:4 10:15 listing 15:22 24:10 25:3
16:6,14 18:11 25:9 26:3 literate 35:10 34:22 38:12
18:12 21:14 56:11,13 litigation 5:25 42:25 44:24
24:3,5,9 25:5 lawyers 21:1 15:1 46:13 45:17 48:22
33:2,14 26:23 31:15 25:7 48:3,6,16 56:757:23
34:11 32:13 35:6,7 lawyer's 5:25 little 6:11,18 means 17:16
35:13 35:25 36:2,9 lay 16:5 28:16 15:25 24:23 18:1,21 20:7
37:2 38:18 39:3,7 49:23 50:4 33:21 meant 24:14
38:1,6 40:6 42:1 layperson 9:9,24 live 29:9 37:15 measure 47:24
39:13 45:20 46:8 leap 12:10 Logan 12:14 47:25
40:4,10 50:6,9 51:7,8,9 left 24:14 34:16 long 14:22,22 meets 45:13
41:4 51:15 53:20,22 58:7 20:7 29:11 members 48:7
knowledge 43:5 legal 10:20 look 8:7 27:10 memo 17:10
knows 18:3 lengthy 37:24 30:21 35:10,1948:5,12 53:22
Lensing 1:16 2:3 36:13 43:21 54:14,18
L 2:11 3:6,7,9 44:23 54:14 memorandum
L 1:16,18 2:3,5 4:1,21 5:18 57:7,19 58:22 57:18
2:11 3:7 29:18 6:12,24 7:11 looks 49:10 memos 12:3
47:4,6 58:8 7:23 8:1,6,22 lose 12:12,15 20:23 54:23
labeled 51:20 9:11 10:1,10 loses 12:11 Memphis 1:16
labelled 3:22 10:21 11:4,10 lost 39:11,20,21mentioned
4:12 11:20 12:12 lot 41:16 58:25
lack 23:13,19 13:3,13,25 messed 17:2
41:20 14:6,9,16 15:8 M met 38:4
language 11:12 15:25 17:5,25 mail 50:4,4 middle 43:21,22
38:15 54:11 18:11,18,21,24 55:15 mind 57:23
55:8 57:17 19:4,9,16,19 main 45:1 47:7 minimal 28:10
lapse 24:14 20:3,6,17 21:6 major 29:25 28:11
56:2,9 largely 10:18 21:9,13,16 majority 49:22 minute 58:7
late 4:8 39:2,17 22:4,8,12,23 making 5:9 7:10 misleads 15:17
58:1 Laughter 28:5 23:2,10,17,20 44:18 46:8 missed 13:6
59:4,18 29:6 31:7 41:6 24:7,20 25:14 manifest 12:6 mistake 3:24 4:5
30:13 5:19,22 8:16 letter 14:2,4 54:11,17,22,25 months 10:2
36:3 13:17,24,25 17:18 37:16 55:1 57:17 33:22
48:2 55:8 14:1,3,4,16 letters 49:4,16 matter 1:12 morphed 18:7
24:22 25:11,16 55:18 particular 7:2 5:9,13 6:8,16
29:12 official 55:16 23:23 25:20 15:14 21:17
37:19 41:13,14 54:9 party 30:6 52:19 play 55:22
17:11 47:11 48:11,14 old 24:15 pending 24:25 25:23 28:6
27:7 51:7 53:17 once 5:24 13:19 25:19 31:5 29:25 30:10
55:21,24 56:4 24:11 58:23 people 10:4,18 31:18 33:14
53:7 56:24 57:3 opening 12:5 16:5,23 35:8 39:14 47:22
59:3,5,14 opinion 17:11 38:15 39:10 51:17 56:2,10
45:9 opportunity 50:4 52:4 points 29:22
notify 3:24 6:9 14:25 23:8 percent 21:24 policy 33:20
36:3,6,7 44:16 oral 1:12 2:2 3:7 18:22 20:7 possible 5:2 6:5
38:24 November 1:10 29:18 46:25 23:19 31:23 10:20 56:3
58:17 number 9:17 56:22 32:8 58:19 possibly 51:5
19:6 32:2,10,17 original 34:6 9:6 34:9,11 11:11 36:19
40:1 39:2,22 47:18 ought 35:7 35:25 38:24 practical 19:20
numbers 58:17 overall 37:13 44:18,25 50:10 26:1 50:5
4:2,4 5:19 objective 49:10 44:12,21,23 petitioner 1:5,17 practices 56:9
7:15,16 obligation 16:25 52:15 54:13 2:4,12 3:8 30:6 practicing 39:6
28:13 paid 5:11 30:12,15 58:9 precedent 26:22
9:17 obligations paper 5:6 19:7 Petitioners 55:4 26:24
15:11 48:13 paragraph piece 5:5 precharge 11:7
obliged 18:10 43:22 piggyback 25:21 11:9 15:19
18:6 obviously 58:24 Pardon 14:6 25:23 17:14 36:11,14
19:22 occur 27:5 Paris 16:24 place 22:13 28:7 40:20
occurred 14:21 part 4:7 8:10 54:10,14 precise 57:8
occurrences 9:12 14:21 places 28:15 prefiling 35:5
22:9,14 59:3 40:21 41:13 52:7 53:25 48:24
23:5,10 office 10:7,11 42:2 plain 11:12 prejudice 6:6,13
41:13 45:19 50:13 56:24 relied 20:10
57:2 promulgated 51:5 52:23 receives 44:18 reluctance 28:2
promulgating 58:11 recognize 11:24 relying 15:9,16
proper 4:11,16 17:7 38:7,9 13:19 49:22 remember
8:19 55:3 questions 29:14 15:13,13 20:24 removed 24:15
proven 48:22 58:17 represented
provided 40:16 raised 56:9 rectify 4:7 32:25 39:14
public 32:24 44:21 50:6,12 refers 53:2 requests 56:8
46:15 8:15 11:7 13:4reading 3:15,15 regarded 46:11 required 3:13
19:13 35:5 36:22 46:15 Register 52:15 3:20 4:4 26:18
12:19,21 purposes 33:8 reality 47:20 regrettably requirement 8:9
14:21 put 10:17 15:14 really 22:21 48:16 8:11,15
22:9,13 28:12 45:11 28:22 40:10 regs 51:4,4 requirements
40:1,10 49:15 42:3 45:10 regular 23:25 44:20 51:18
47:21 p.m 59:21 56:11 regulation 26:10 requires 15:22
49:21 reason 6:20 26:10 34:5,6 reserve 29:13
53:20 Q 16:11 49:13 34:10,10 43:8 respect 32:13,19
qualify 50:18 53:5 43:8,10 53:10 32:20
48:8 9:20,20 11:14 35:25 36:2 20:12,13,17,19 12:15 34:8
53:8 34:15 46:1 reasons 56:13 51:20 53:2,6 Respondents
16:5,10 questionnaire 2:10 58:8 reinstated 4:14 29:19 47:3
46:13 9:7,15,22 recall 48:7 relate 19:14 response 41:21
20:8 17:17,24 22:2 55:24 40:18 responsibility
22:3,4 36:15 received 10:6,10 reliable 17:12 30:3
30:14 37:24 38:19 12:2 48:11 reliance 27:6 responsible
36:23 37:10,22 15:18 17:22 seen 38:24 situations 55:13
38:12,20 39:15 26:10 34:12,16 41:12 six 43:23
41:18 42:7,18 39:10 40:15,15 7:18 8:8 Solicitor 1:20
44:7,11,15 43:25 44:23 separate 56:12 somebody 55:10
46:1,10,14,21 51:6 57:14 serve 48:14 sooner 28:23
14:2,3 rule 4:1,3 7:19 25:14 26:1,5 51:2 sort 14:17 25:1
16:1 7:19 8:5 23:4 27:14,17,20,24 sets 46:12 30:1
22:25 29:5 42:4 50:8 28:4,21 29:2 settlement 4:17 sorts 24:4
26:4,6 50:9,12,18 30:9,22,25 show 32:1 33:15 sound 51:8
35:12 51:9,10,12,12 31:5,9,17,21 56:23 sounds 43:20
40:12 51:13,15 52:8 32:7,10,16,20 shows 3:16 57:6 source 49:20
43:2,5,20 52:10,14 57:14 32:22 34:21 58:22 sources 57:7
46:10 58:24 35:13 36:10 side 11:14 25:10 SOUTER 6:21
48:13 rules 24:25 42:4 37:2 39:19 26:5 56:15 7:6 26:13,19
55:25 50:7 40:4,10,14,24 signed 10:6,9 26:23 46:5,11
11:13 35:8,10 45:15,25 47:6 39:17 43:12 23:21
13:10,22 running 37:16 48:18,20,24 silent 15:14 spent 14:22
20:9 runs 18:12 49:2,3,7,14,21 similar 39:25 spoke 38:20,24
54:7,9 55:19 simply 4:15 6:10 stage 18:24
37:22 S 55:24,25 56:2 16:11 21:20 34:19
S 2:1 3:1 56:9 59:4 45:17 53:22 stand 57:15
43:19 sanction 6:10 scenario 24:17 57:1 start 5:9 41:14
46:23 sane 28:4,12 scheme 3:11 sir 27:19 31:19 41:23 47:23
54:21 satisfies 50:13 47:15 37:25 state 30:2
59:18 satisfy 25:6 se 56:16 site 10:3 11:25 stated 7:3 51:16
saw 58:17 second 5:13 27:9 situation 4:6 statement 21:25
12:10 20:11,12 56:21 13:6,15 15:16 46:9 58:12
31:1,8 27:21,23 32:11 second-guessing 15:18 23:3,14 states 1:1,13,22
32:14 33:25 4:9 25:13,21,25 2:8 47:1 57:18
49:4 51:22 section 3:15 26:12 27:4 stating 30:9
33:5,17 58:2 44:17 54:11 35:20 46:4 station 38:13,14
34:2,14 says 7:20 10:2,5 see 5:16 15:20 47:13 55:20 statistics 33:15
36:1,12 12:1 15:10,10 56:18 56:3 59:2 statute 3:19 4:4
10:16 supporting 1:23 45:6 48:25 29:14 31:6 try 6:5 19:22
23:5 2:9 47:3 51:7 56:1,5,21 37:6 48:8 29:23 44:13
suppose 17:21 57:22 58:19 56:2
29:25 41:7 things 24:4 timely 3:12 Tuesday 1:10
41:12 supposed 12:6 41:16 44:9 18:13,18 19:10 turns 21:24
42:3,4 17:7 37:11 54:22 24:21 twice 9:15 17:8
Supreme 1:1,13 think 4:1 5:23 timing 40:7 two 9:13,15 12:3
41:18,21 48:19 8:24 9:11 11:5 TOBY 1:20 2:7 36:23 38:19
surfaced 48:8 13:10 15:8,22 today 33:1 58:18 two-page 36:24
T 27:11 29:8 7:12 12:16 U
talked 27:3 45:10,12,12,24 49:4,16 8:14 55:17
31:4 48:2 41:15 51:10 53:12 50:18 6:11
task 56:2 55:22 56:1,2 traceable 47:13 United 1:1,13,22
42:10 46:20 57:20 59:15 tracking 31:11 unrepresented
Tenn 1:16 thought 10:16 40:4 53:16 upholding 8:14
52:12 26:14 33:19 19:8 34:3 22:19 31:11
49:9,10 threw 33:11 55:20 usually 55:11
Thank 29:15 ticking 12:23 tried 36:7 V
19:21 59:17,18 9:2 13:7,15,18 true 4:7 7:11 8:6 vast 49:22
26:2 thing 4:12,24 13:21 14:22 24:6,7,20 verified 48:11
31:5 5:8 21:19,25 16:16 17:11 27:24 33:8 versus 52:11
38:14 25:1 34:23 18:12,14,22 53:18,20 55:9 view 8:3 52:24
35:2 56:17 180-day 12:21 46 2:9
46:7 49:5 write 17:9 33:24 19 32:17 48 52:14 54:2,3
51:7,9 44:8 53:25 1981 43:9
53:25 writing 18:6 1983 43:9 52:9 5
wrong 17:10 1999 38:15 14:15 15:4,22
53:22 27:1 32:2 2 31:1 38:11
24:17 wrote 20:23 19:4 33:21 48:12 49:5
35:10 2-1/2 10:3 55:10,13,16
43:13 X 2.2 54:11 58 2:12
53:3 x 1:2,8 20th 30:17 37:20
2001 48:3 6 1:10
year 16:19 50:3 53:22 54:14 7:21 13:1,2
17:17 2006 50:3 56:7 59:10
240 32:2
9:14
265 36:23,24
9:14
1:6 3:4
1 29 2:6 34:5
51:1 3
59:21
3 2:4 19:1,5
54:17
52:15 54:3,5
22:17,18 148 54:2 30th 30:16 31:2
23:14 300 12:23 13:7
34:5 54:13
14:11 18:4,4
34:5 44:21
