IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
HUMBERTO FIDEL REGALADO :
CUELLAR, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1456
UNITED STATES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, February 25, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JERRY V. BEARD, ESQ., Assistant Federal Public Defender,
Fort Worth, Tex.; on behalf of the Petitioner.
LISA H. SCHERTLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JERRY V. BEARD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
LISA H. SCHERTLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JERRY V. BEARD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument first
today in Case 06-1456, Cuellar versus United States.
Mr. Beard.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JERRY V. BEARD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BEARD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Section 1956, the money laundering statute,
requires an intent to minimize the criminal taint of
unlawful proceeds. But the statute does not criminalize
concealing money's existence. In this case,
Mr. Cuellar's conviction should be reversed for two
reasons. First, while the method of the transportation
involved may have been designed to conceal, the
transportation itself was not. Secondly, while Cuellar
may have in fact concealed money itself, he did not
conceal the nature, source, location, ownership or
control of the unlawful proceeds.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, he certainly
concealed the location. They were secreted in the car,
under the goat hair and everything else. The location
of the money was certainly concealed.
MR. BEARD: Chief Justice, in the broader
sense location was concealed. The point to be taken
here I think is this: An examination of the text itself
reveals particular listed attributes, and location
numbers among them. But what this suggests, the
requirement that there be a design to conceal or to
disguise these particular attributes, necessarily means
a plan, if you will, for those -- excuse me -- for those
attributes to be presented either to law enforcement if
they intercept the money or inject it into legitimate
commerce later. In other words, they'll be observed
later. Location has independent meaning, but it's also
understood within the context of the words that surround
it. All money changes location, whether concealed or
not. Location in this context means more than the
location that the money was found in the car.
JUSTICE BREYER: Maybe I should ask you this
now because you've probably thought about it and I can't
work it out. I don't see any problem with the word
"location." I thought what you would say is it isn't
the transportation in this instance that concealed the
location, it's the method of transportation that sealed
the location.
MR. BEARD: Yes, Justice --
JUSTICE BREYER: And if you read it that
literally, then there is no problem in getting to your
interpretation of the statute, or is there? Because
since you didn't advance that argument, I thought maybe
there's something I've not seen here.
MR. BEARD: No, Justice Breyer; you're
correct. There is a huge difference between the method
of transportation and the transportation itself. And in
this particular case, the difference is certainly
implicated. What we understand the government to be
arguing is that the method of the transportation
signifies the listed attributes. But if that were the
case it would effectively render all transportation of
funds necessarily to be money laundering.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I just ask, what do
you mean by method of transportation in this case? I
mean, that it was in a car or the fact it was wrapped up
in dirty -- in a dirty kind of container, and so forth
and so on?
MR. BEARD: Justice Stevens, what I'm
referring to is certainly that it was in a car, but
there was a secret compartment, goat hair was sprinkled
around to try to throw off drug detection dogs, and
those type of characteristics.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But isn't that all just
evidence that there was a motive to conceal the
ownership?
MR. BEARD: No, I don't think so,
Justice Stevens. What we're looking at here is that the
design of the -- the fact Mr. Cuellar may or may not
have known, for example, who owned -- where the money
was coming from or who owned it, that doesn't go to the
design of the transportation. The design of the
transportation itself is just to get the money to
Mexico. I can say that abstractly, but in this case in
particular because we know from the government's
evidence that what this was was essentially the last leg
of a drug trafficking deal. We know that this was
repayment. So in this particular case at least, the
purpose of this transportation was to get this money
back as repayment money.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If he were a courier
bringing the marijuana into the United States what would
be the crime and the penalty?
MR. BEARD: Justice, if he was bringing --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If he was bringing
marijuana into the United States instead of returning
with the proceeds?
MR. BEARD: Well, presumably, Your Honor, it
would be a drug trafficking crime. But of course, as I
understand your hypothetical, he would possess marijuana
at that time.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But now he possesses
money. And you're not saying this is innocent behavior.
It is criminal behavior, so what is the crime if not
money laundering?
MR. BEARD: We have suggested that
Mr. Cuellar's, liability, liability or culpability, lie
more properly under the bulk cash smuggling statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that requires knowing
that it's illegal to take out more than X amount of
money, and there's nothing that indicates that the
common courier would know anything about such a
provision.
MR. BEARD: Yes, you're correct that it
would require inference as opposed to direct evidence.
This is why in our reply brief, we gave an example of
where the identical type behavior arose, not in Texas
but in Alabama, and in fact the individual pleaded
guilty to bulk cash smuggling.
So I suppose my response would be this. The
same weak inferences that supported the money laundering
conviction in the government's eyes would be the same
inferences that would support the cash smuggling.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we take it that you
concede -- I don't want to say that you concede. If we
take it the government has a strong case under the
smuggling statute, wouldn't it have an equally strong
case under (i) of the statute that we're considering
here, which doesn't require concealing or disguising the
nature, just to avoid a transportation reporting
requirement. That's the same as the smuggling statute.
MR. BEARD: No, I don't think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I know the government
didn't indict under (ii).
MR. BEARD: But I don't think it is the
same, Your Honor, because the cash smuggling, the bulk
cash smuggling statute, speaks to currency and of course
this speaks to transactions. So I think that there
is in fact --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You mean as the proceeds
of an illegal transaction?
MR. BEARD: Well, I'm distinguishing between
currency and transaction because as I understand it at
least transaction might implicate in a banking context,
but cash is cash, if you will. So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it doesn't matter for
purposes of the bulk cash statute that it was illegal.
It could be perfectly lawful money.
MR. BEARD: Yes, Your Honor, absolutely.
That's certainly true.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But why -- why isn't
this transporting to conceal the location or the
ownership in this sense? Suppose you have someone the
police suspect of engaging in drug activities. They
know he sold, you know, so much marijuana or whatever
and got cash back. They think it's there, and they're
going to investigate it, but this fellow comes in and
they transport the proceeds across the border.
Isn't that transportation to conceal the
location or the ownership?
MR. BEARD: As I understand it, Mr. Chief
Justice, if the police are aware of it and then the
flush, if you will, takes the money across, I think
that's -- that's much closer. That's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they think
it's there, but they're not sure, and they -- you know,
that would help them make their case, to find out that
the guy they think sold the drugs has $80,000. So they
get a search warrant or whatever, and it turns out he
doesn't, because it's been transported to conceal the
location or ownership.
MR. BEARD: I would -- no, I think that
the -- if the police were aware, if the police were
aware and the kingpin were aware and put in place some
type of design, if you will, to flush the money and
perhaps to -- to Mexico under the circumstances you
described, then you would be closer to, to having money
laundering liability, although certainly I don't know
that the courier necessarily would.
However, I think it's very important to
consider that the money laundering statute necessarily
contemplates this notion of -- of detection or the money
resurfacing, if you will. And the reason I think that's
important is because it gives a particular meaning to
those listed attributes. If the police were just --
well, in this case, just stumbled upon it, and nothing
was -- had been done and there was no evidence on the
record to suggest that there was going to be anything
done in this case other than repayment, money laundering
liability is simply not going to arise.
Now, I think that --
JUSTICE BREYER: I still don't see why isn't
what the Chief Justice said absolutely right? If you
are transporting this money to get it out of town so the
police can't find it, you're transporting it to conceal
it. That falls right within the statute.
MR. BEARD: I --
JUSTICE BREYER: If you're transporting it
simply to pay some courier somewhere else, you're not
transporting it to conceal it. And if in fact the
transportation is done in a way that conceals it, that's
beside the point because the statute is interested in
transporting it in order to conceal it.
MR. BEARD: I think that --
JUSTICE BREYER: What is wrong with that?
MR. BEARD: I think what's wrong, Your
Honor, is that the -- the statute focuses on the
transportation or some of the other transfers of
transmission and specifically is coupled, if you will,
with this notion of -- of the attributes themselves. I
don't know that it's -- it's simply too broad, in fact,
to say that all transportation's will necessarily incur
the money laundering liability.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- maybe I don't
understand the -- I thought he was helping you, but
maybe --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Were you helping him? I
thought so.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It sounds like he was
making the distinction that didn't the dissenting judge
make between -- the dissenting judge says transporting
to conceal is no good, but concealing to transport is
okay.
MR. BEARD: That -- you're correct, Your
Honor, and that is, I think, a point to be made. The --
Judge Smith below did try to highlight the fact that if
you transport to conceal, then you're beginning to
implicate money laundering liability.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose someone transports
money across a border and is recorded surreptitiously on
tape explaining exactly why the person did it, and the
person says: The reason why I'm transporting this
across the border is because I know that when I get it
to the destination country, that's a place where people
use huge amounts of cash for bank deposits, for
purchases; and, therefore the act of transporting it
from the United States to the other country will
disguise the nature of the cash as drug money.
Would that fall within the statute?
MR. BEARD: No, I don't think so,
Justice Alito, and the reason I don't is because that
-- what you've described implicates potential money
spending, this notion that the money is easier spent.
But without more, money spending would not equate to
money laundering. That's --
JUSTICE ALITO: Why wouldn't that fit the
literal language of the statute? It's a transportation
across the board with the design to conceal the nature,
i.e., that it's drug money, of this money?
MR. BEARD: I'm not sure, Justice, that
you've actually concealed the nature. If the money was
going -- if the money was dirty and going across dirty,
it remained dirty and just happened to be spent. But --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but it doesn't remain
dirty simply because it goes to a place in which the
appearance of this kind of cash does not have the dirty
appearance that it does at home. Why -- why isn't
that the correct answer?
MR. BEARD: I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why doesn't that make it
laundering?
MR. BEARD: Again, I don't know that there
has been -- as I understood the hypothetical, I don't
think that there's been any suggestion of a design to
conceal, the why. You're just taking dirty and you're
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but the design to
conceal -- maybe I misunderstood the hypo, but I thought
the design to conceal was you conceal the dirty
character of the money by taking it to a place and using
it in that place where use of large amounts of cash,
whether for bank deposits or spending in luxury stores,
does not have the dirty implication, the dirty
appearance that it does in the United States.
So, why doesn't that therefore satisfy the
concealment?
MR. BEARD: I -- Justice Souter, I think
that the answer to the question is here. The statute is
designed to take -- or purposed to take these dirty
proceeds, unlawful proceeds, and to cleanse them so as
to prevent their injection into streams of legitimate
commerce.
What you've described as spending is
admittedly spending, but I don't think that the spending
that's -- that you've contemplated there basically
implicates the core concern, if you will. The money --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't have any evidence
like that here anyway, do we? Do we know that this was
going to "Spendy Land" where everybody has a lot of
money? Did we know that?
MR. BEARD: Justice Scalia, what we know,
because the government's evidence established it, is
that the money was being sent back to Mexico to repay
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does everybody have a lot
of money in Mexico? Is that --
MR. BEARD: Well, I would hazard to say no,
of course, but the record --
JUSTICE ALITO: Was there -- was there
evidence about the nature of the Mexican economy?
MR. BEARD: There was. There was, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: What was the evidence?
MR. BEARD: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE ALITO: What was the evidence?
MR. BEARD: The evidence that you just asked
about went to that it was easier to spend money in
Mexico.
JUSTICE ALITO: Wasn't there an expert who
said that Mexico has a cash economy?
MR. BEARD: Yes, yes. And it -- and --
JUSTICE ALITO: And what does that mean?
MR. BEARD: What I take it to mean --
JUSTICE ALITO: Does it mean people can
spend a lot of cash without raising eyebrows?
MR. BEARD: Certainly more than here. That
was what I think that the evidence was offered for. And
the same expert, of course offered, you know,
established -- or the government established through the
same expert that the purpose of this particular
transportation was to complete the transaction, the drug
transaction.
JUSTICE ALITO: In your brief, you argue
that there has to be a design to create the appearance
of legitimate wealth. Are you drawing back now from
that argument?
MR. BEARD: No, and, of course, we are well
aware that those words are not found in the statute, nor
do we suggest that they were. But what we have
suggested is simply that that's, if you will, shorthand
for describing what necessarily occurs if the
attributes, the listed attributes, are obfuscated. That
is the cleansing mechanism.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why would that be so?
Suppose -- I mean, just take -- modify my hypothetical.
What this person says on the tape is: I'm sending this
money across the border because I know that if it --
once it gets there, it will be harder to establish my
ownership of it. People will still know that it's drug
money perhaps, but they -- it will be harder to
establish my ownership of it.
Now, would that fall within the statute?
MR. BEARD: Well, at that point, yes,
because I think --
JUSTICE ALITO: But there wouldn't be an
attempt to create the appearance of legitimate wealth
there then, would there?
MR. BEARD: Well, to the extent that the
individual who has been taped is contemplating the
money's resurfacing, I think that there would be. It
would be not legitimate wealth, though. And perhaps I
need to drive this point home. It would be less dirty.
In other words, there's not a requirement that the dirty
money necessarily be made clean or a description, but
that the dirty money be made less dirty. And that I
think is -- is what we're talking about.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does the statutory purpose
have to be the only purpose or the principal purpose? I
mean, I could conceive that the principal purpose of
this transportation was to give the money back to the
fellow who gave the drugs, to pay the provider of the
drugs. I assume that would be the principal purpose.
But what if you know that when the -- when
the provider of the drugs is paid, he'll be able to
spend this cash easily in Mexico, which has a cash
economy? And let's assume that the latter is enough to
satisfy the purpose requirement of this statute. What
-- what would be the result?
MR. BEARD: If we -- well, Justice Scalia,
if we --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you assume a primary
purpose to pay off the --
MR. BEARD: Right. If we assume that the --
that the latter, as you just said, satisfies the
statute, then you have a conviction.
But we certainly don't assume that, because
that implicates money spending, and money spending
hasn't -- hasn't been held to be money laundering.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even though that wasn't the
real purpose -- I mean, the real purpose was to pay off
this fellow, who otherwise might come to hurt you.
MR. BEARD: Yes, absolutely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But once you do pay him
off, you know that the money is going to be ready
spendable.
MR. BEARD: Well, certainly in this case, we
don't have any evidence that Mr. Cuellar knew any such
thing. If you were to remove it from the confines of
the Cuellar case, I think you -- your hypothetical does
come closer to implicating liability; but that's simply
not what we have here, at least.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Now, what you understand
the language "disguise the nature of the proceeds of
this specified unlawful activity" to mean, does that --
is that satisfied by merely proof that it is proceeds of
unlawful activity? Or do you have to tell that -- what
is the word "nature" talking about?
MR. BEARD: No, Justice Stevens. It would
again, I think, require more. If all that were required
is to show that there was unlawful proceeds --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, that's what it seems
to say. What I'm asking is: What do you think it
means?
MR. BEARD: Well, what I think it means is
that there has to be some -- the transportation or what
have you has to be purposed, designed, to take the
nature and obfuscate it. And this --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But I'm just asking about
the word -- the meaning of the word "nature." What is
the nature, other than the fact it's proceeds of
unlawful activity?
MR. BEARD: That it would -- I think that it
would -- "nature" is perhaps the first and foremost of
the attributes, but I think that it means, that it means
dirty, unclean.
JUSTICE STEVENS: "Dirty" in some sense
other than being proceeds of specified unlawful
activity?
MR. BEARD: Oh, okay. I don't know.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I just don't know what
that means other than that it is proceeds of unlawful --
MR. BEARD: When I have -- when I read the
attributes and contemplate --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm just talking about the
one attribute, "nature."
MR. BEARD: Right.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm trying to understand
what you think that means.
MR. BEARD: I have thought of it as meaning
basically dirty.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Proceeds of unlawful
activity.
MR. BEARD: Proceeds of unlawful activity
are the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It's always dirty.
MR. BEARD: There may be -- well, yes, I see
where you're going. Is there -- what is the independent
meaning of "nature." I think that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why isn't it simply to
change the nature from being drug money to look like
it's apparently innocent? I mean the change of the
nature -- the nature going in is it's always dirty.
It's drug money. And the purpose of the concealment is
to get it converted to some different nature, i.e.,
clean money.
Isn't that what "disguise the nature" means?
MR. BEARD: I don't -- I brook no quarrel
with that. I mean, yes. I'm just -- what I was simply
suggesting --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the verb is not
"transformed." The verb is "disguise" or "conceal."
MR. BEARD: That's true, and the meaning
certainly of "conceal" would be to bring it forward with
maybe no explanation of the taint, if you will. And, of
course, "disguise" would be to maybe create a false
explanation of where the money is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was there a reporting
requirement for -- for this shipment. If he had gone to
the border, would he -- well, then, a lot of what you're
arguing about isn't very important because they could
just indict under (ii).
MR. BEARD: To avoid a transaction-reporting
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: To avoid a
transaction-reporting requirement, and you wouldn't have
to go through all this "nature" thing.
MR. BEARD: Your Honor, as I understand it
he would have a currency-reporting requirement, had he
been going South.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You indicated that there
is such a requirement.
MR. BEARD: A currency-reporting
requirement, yes. I'm not sure that there is a
transaction-reporting requirement. I think that that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, I see.
MR. BEARD: -- may implicate different
considerations.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And if he -- if he didn't
know about the currency-reporting requirement, then he's
not guilty under that statute because it requires
knowledge.
MR. BEARD: Yes, Your Honor, I understand.
And so where we are left is he may not be guilty under
money laundering and perhaps, perhaps not under bulk
cash smuggling. But that in itself does not necessitate
a broadly interpreted understanding of the money
laundering statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If he's not -- if he
doesn't fit into either category, then there's no crime?
MR. BEARD: That's a possibility, yes,
absolutely.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, can I ask
you to go back to Justice Stevens's line of questioning?
If -- do you conceal the nature of proceeds if you
conceal the proceeds?
MR. BEARD: No, and I think that --
Mr. Chief Justice, I think that it's important to
understand, for example, that hiding money is not
necessarily the same thing as -- I mean, concealing
money is not necessarily the same thing as concealing
the location. And I think you could make the same type
of analysis in the other --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that -- that
doesn't seem to follow. I understand the argument with
"nature." In other words, you're not concealing the
nature; it's just not there. But when you're hiding it,
you are concealing the location.
MR. BEARD: Yes. But, again, I think that
the term "location," which is understood in the context
of the words surrounding it, if I take money and hide it
in my --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that gets me
to a question. Several times you've referenced the
attributes. Are you saying that the statute would have
a different meaning if it just said "location"?
MR. BEARD: What I'm suggesting, Chief
Justice, is that if the -- that the statute would have a
particularly different meaning from the one that the
government wants if the attributes just listed existence
of the money. There is a huge difference between hiding
money or hiding the location of the money.
If you just had location by itself, I'd be
making the same argument; but there's a huge difference
between hiding money or hiding the location.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you better
explain that a little more for me.
MR. BEARD: All right, then. If I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because they seem to
me the same.
MR. BEARD: If I -- no. I think that the --
hiding the location suggests that the individual is
contemplating the money resurfacing later, either for
injection into commerce or for -- perhaps if the police
discover it, and they're trying -- the launderer, if you
will, is trying to make sure that the money would
survive that subsequent --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay, so hiding
location assumes it's going to come up later.
MR. BEARD: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And if you just hide
the money, you assume he's just going to leave it
somewhere and forget about it?
MR. BEARD: No. No, Mr. Chief Justice. If
you just hide the money, that would encompass just
hiding money, for example, in the back yard of your
house with -- with -- or in a tin can or under a
mattress or whatever. It's a much broader -- broader
concept.
And I think that that's really what is at
play here because, to the extent that the government is
focusing on the method or -- of the concealment here,
they're -- they're implicating that type of behavior, if
you will, and saying it's sufficient to support a money
laundering conviction.
JUSTICE ALITO: But what if there is a wire
transfer to a bank in another country because that bank
has bank secrecy laws that will make it impossible to
ascertain the location of the money once it is there?
Does that fall within the statute?
MR. BEARD: At this point, no, Justice,
because you haven't suggested that there was any type of
design, any intent to disguise or conceal. You've just
suggested it went to another place. If I sent it to an
account --
JUSTICE ALITO: If that's the purpose. If
the person says, I'm sending this to blank country
because they've got bank secrecy laws there that make it
impossible to find this money once it gets into their
banking system.
MR. BEARD: No.
JUSTICE ALITO: That's not --
MR. BEARD: On those facts, no, I don't
think so. Now, if I were sending money to accounts in
the jurisdiction you've described, and perhaps with a
little bit more, different names on the accounts or what
have you, then I -- then I think a different result.
But if I'm just sending from my account here to my
account there, then no.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you say the same
thing for -- if you just put it in a safe deposit box in
a bank in the Bahamas?
MR. BEARD: I would make the same -- my
answer would be the same without more, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the "more" is
they don't hold it under your name. They hold it under
a numerical account number. Then that changes
everything?
MR. BEARD: It very well may. At least -- I
don't know that it changes everything, but it very well
may lead to a different result. But you just modified
the hypothetical.
What I'm -- what I'm suggesting is that if
you're just putting money in a safety deposit box or
this account or under the mattress or in the hole in the
back yard --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because the police can't
find it in that account even if it is still under your
name. In an account here the police would be able to
find it. In an account in the Cayman Islands, they
won't be able to. Isn't that -- isn't that transporting
it in order to conceal, to conceal it?
MR. BEARD: Justice, no, I don't think so,
and I'll briefly answer and try to come back to you in
rebuttal.
But I think that it's important to
understand the money laundering statute is not a
detection statute. That's not where the focus of the
statute rests.
Mr. Chief Justice, if I can reserve the
balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Beard.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that, so
I hope you will explain it later. It doesn't mean
anything if it's not a detection statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Schertler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA H. SCHERTLER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. SCHERTLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The international concealment money
laundering statute contains no appearance of legitimate
wealth requirement, nor does it demand proof that the
illegal proceeds will be cleansed after they cross the
United States border. Petitioner's construction of the
statute is not supported by its tests and would defeat
its purpose.
What the statute does require is proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant knows that
he has illegal proceeds and that he knows that the
transportation across the border of those known illegal
proceeds is designed in whole or in part to conceal or
disguise one, at least one, of the facts in the statute
about those proceeds. The phrase "designed in whole or
in part" directs a full examination of the plan, of the
way in which the cross-border transportation of these
known illegal proceeds was planned out.
JUSTICE ALITO: Does the word
"transportation" mean the act of transportation across
the border or the method of transportation?
MS. SCHERTLER: The word "transportation"
itself means the carrying of something from one place to
another. The phrase "designed in whole or in part,"
suggests that one should look at the entire plan, the
way that this transportation was conceived or planned
out in the mind, which would include, we would submit,
the method that was -- that was chosen to be used for
this transportation, the individual who was designated
to conduct this transportation of known illegal proceeds
across the United States border, and, yes, reasons for
conducting that transportation as well.
But it is not limited, as Petitioner would
suggest, to just one fact, that being what's going to
happen to the funds after the transportation is over.
JUSTICE BREYER: You go back to
Justice Alito's question. I agree with you that you
could read this as including a prohibition against a
method of transportation which method is to hide the
money. You could. But you could also read it the way
that the question suggests, to refer only to the
transportation. So you transport it physically in order
later to hide it.
Now, the difference between the two is if we
accept yours, which is the broader, this statute
includes everything that has nothing to do with the
common word "money laundering." Any time you hide
something, for whatever reason you hide it, to take it
to pay the couriers, you're money laundering. Any time
you run a gambling operation and the people stick the
money in the wad of their shoe, they're money
laundering.
I mean, why would you think Congress would
want that narrow reading when it can be read to focus
much more closely on money laundering just by reading it
literally for what it says?
MS. SCHERTLER: Your Honor, several
responses to that, to that question.
First of all, what's the purpose -- if we
want to look beyond the words "designed in whole or in
part" in the context of the international money
laundering statute to try to discern what the purpose
was of the statute, the purpose of this statute was to
prevent criminals from taking their proceeds abroad
where they would be outside the reach of all of these
controls that have been set up in the United States in
order to detect illegal proceeds and use those proceeds
to trace back to the crimes and the criminals that
generated them.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But if that's all they were
getting at, they wouldn't have to have this
international component at all, because if you totally
eliminated the "to or through" requirement and you were
able to focus or properly focus solely on the method of
the transportation, et cetera, then you would cover not
only cases in which the concealment ultimately would
take place by crossing a border, but you would pick up
cases in which the concealment would take place even
within the United States; and that would certainly be in
the government's interest.
But if you add, if you say, well, but this
is limited by a to or through requirement, then it
suggests, it seems to me, as Justice Breyer's question
does, that it must -- the statute must be getting at
what happens when it crosses the border as opposed to
the means of crossing.
What's your answer to that?
MS. SCHERTLER: My answer to that, Your
Honor, is that that would have -- that would defeat the
purpose for which this statute was enacted. The -- the
premise of this statute was that once illegal proceeds
are taken abroad, taken outside of the United States
system, we lose control of them, we lose the ability to
find them, and we will have no idea --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that would be -- that
would be equally true and an equally appropriate
objective without the "to or through" requirement in
there. In other words, you don't have to have the "to
or through" requirement in order to give the government
a tool for exactly the purpose that you describe.
MS. SCHERTLER: And there -- there could
have been drafted a statute that was even broader than
this one in that respect. But the way -- the reason
that Congress imposed the "to or through" requirement is
that it knew -- is that that was when law enforcement in
the United States would lose the ability to use ordinary
investigative methods to find the proceeds of illegal
fraud.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then what you're saying, I
suppose, is that the movement of funds, if they're
illegal proceeds, outside of the country is a per se
concealment?
MS. SCHERTLER: No, Your Honor. We do not
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Give me an example of when
you take money outside of the country that's illegal
money --
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- that's not a
concealment?
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes. Let's say you have a
drug dealer who conducts a number of drug transactions
on one side of the border, takes his daily take, puts it
in his pocket or his wallet and crosses the border into
Mexico. Based on that evidence alone, the government
would not be able to show beyond a reasonable doubt that
merely taking those illegal proceeds, known illegal
proceeds, putting them in your pocket, that that was
designed to conceal the location, that there was a
plan --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He puts it in his shoe,
okay. Because it's a lot, he puts it in his shoe.
MS. SCHERTLER: That would --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That would be enough,
wouldn't it?
MS. SCHERTLER: That would -- yes. Your
Honor, that would permit the inference. Now, of course,
ultimately --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What if he gives it to his
brother and says take it across for me, will you?
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, I don't think that
that alone is -- is enough, Your Honor.
What the statute asks is can you find --
JUSTICE SOUTER: If he tells his brother to
put it in his shoe?
(Laughter.)
MS. SCHERTLER: That would -- that would --
that would get close.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why isn't that
enough? If, for example, he's being -- he thinks he's
being watched by law enforcement because they know he's
up to something, but his brother isn't, why isn't that
concealing?
MS. SCHERTLER: With that additional
evidence, absolutely. I think there would be a basis
for a jury to find beyond a reasonable doubt that that
was designed, that that was designed to conceal.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well then, let me back up.
Then let me add this. It seems to me that you're
saying, as you have to say, that any movement of illegal
funds outside the country which is concealed is per se
concealing a relevant attribute?
MS. SCHERTLER: We don't go that far, Your
Honor. As I said --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But if you do.
MS. SCHERTLER: -- you need to find --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think you have to go
that far to make the case you're making.
MS. SCHERTLER: No, not at all. I mean,
what -- Congress could have said every cross-border
transportation of illegal proceeds is covered. And they
did not. What they did was they set up this filter
for the ones --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're always
concealing the control. You're always concealing the
ownership. You're always concealing the location if
it's in your shoe or in the bottom of the car.
MS. SCHERTLER: I don't -- you have -- they
have to find a design to conceal.
JUSTICE BREYER: He purposely puts it in his
shoe, okay.
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's a design. He knows
he's going to do it. So -- and you're saying, I take
it, 100 percent of the time that's illegal. If you're
not saying that, I don't understand what you're saying.
MS. SCHERTLER: No --
JUSTICE BREYER: If you are saying that, I
don't know why they call this statute "Laundering of
Monetary Instruments." Why didn't they call it "shoe
hiding"?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you're basically
confronting face-on the dissent here, which drew a
distinction between transporting to conceal and
concealing to transport. And all you have here is
concealing to transport, and the question is whether
that violates the statute.
I agree with Justice Breyer that if this is
a statute directed at concealing to transport, it's a
funny name for it to think that it's a money laundering
statute.
MS. SCHERTLER: Your Honor, the title of
this statute, "Money Laundering," this is exactly
what -- among the conduct that Congress had in mind when
it enacted and when it confronted money laundering in
1986. It saw money laundering as the variety of ways in
which criminals prevent the detection of their illegal
proceeds and thus are able to profit from their crimes.
It covered a wide range of conduct that included
converting, yes, illegitimate wealth into legitimate
forms through very complex means.
But Congress was also concerned about
criminals taking their proceeds across the border
surreptitiously --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Were they concerned that
this was a 20-year penalty, not what you're talking
about, the person who gets -- who is the drug dealer,
but all that this evidence shows is that we have a
courier. We don't even know if he knows who put the
money in the car. We don't know if he knows the -- who
the person is that he's to deliver the money to.
So on your theory, all you have to prove is
that this defendant drove a car in which illicit money
was hidden in order to get it out of the country. No
grand design. All he is is a courier.
MS. SCHERTLER: He needs to know that part
of the design, part of the plan of that transportation,
was to conceal or disguise --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's a -- that's a lot
of fancy language. All he knows, in fact, if he's just
a courier is that somebody gave him money to take this
car in which drug money is hidden across the border.
MS. SCHERTLER: And the use of that courier
also was part of a design to conceal or disguise the
ownership and control --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not his design. His
design is only -- I mean, he's just a drug courier, and
I think that's what -- that's a problem with your
interpretation of the statute. One can think of the
kingpin having this elaborate plan, and when it gets to
Mexico it's going to go into this bank and that place.
But here the defendant is simply a courier, and on the
government's theory anyone who transports hidden money
to get it out of the country, who drives the car, just
the driver, is a money launderer.
MS. SCHERTLER: Justice Ginsburg, the --
Congress's purpose here was in getting at exactly this
kind of conduct by third parties in particular, because
when you use a third party that violates another purpose
at which the statute is directed: using third parties
to conceal who the true owner in control of the proceeds
is.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I suppose then the brother
should be -- giving the money to the brother should
satisfy the statute.
MS. SCHERTLER: It --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Because if I'm -- if I'm in
the drug business and my -- my brother is an
international social worker or something, I'm certainly
going to conceal when I give it to him and he carries it
across the border.
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes, Justice Souter, that
would be another example of using a third party so that
a -- so that one part of the design of that
transportation is to conceal the ownership and control
of the proceeds.
And in response to Justice Ginsburg's
question, Congress also -- well, in the sentencing
guidelines system now, the guidelines takes account of
whether you have the individual who is also engaged in
the underlying offense or whether you have a third party
who had not been involved in the underlying offense.
But no -- no matter how you see it, this was
precisely the conduct that Congress is getting at. It
saw that the only way to -- to get at crime -- one way
that was very important to it was to get at the money
and in order to get at the money you need to be able to
counteract the ways in which the criminals would prevent
law enforcement from getting at the money.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose the person who set
all this up lives in Mexico and the sole intent of that
person was to bring the money back to him in the place
where he lives? That would -- would that be money
laundering by him, to start out with?
MS. SCHERTLER: If he had designed this
transportation, yes, Your Honor, because the whole --
the design of this transportation was to conceal or
disguise all five of the attributes of these illegal
proceeds.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that a question of --
isn't that a question of his intent?
MS. SCHERTLER: I --
JUSTICE ALITO: It's not the effect of the
design, is it? It's the intent of the design.
MS. SCHERTLER: It -- it is -- what was --
what was the plan? What was the conception? What
decisions were made about why and how we get these
proceeds from point A to point B.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Everybody knows he's a drug
dealer, back in Juarez or wherever he lives in Mexico.
MS. SCHERTLER: But by --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He's famous in town. He's
a well respected man because he's a big drug dealer.
And he has just arranged get the money delivered to him
so that he can spend it. What -- what's concealing
there?
MS. SCHERTLER: And he's arranged it in a
way, if we're assuming the transportation here, so that
his ownership and control of those proceeds will be
disguised --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It won't be disguised.
MS. SCHERTLER: -- during the course of the
transportation by saying, I'm going to select a third
party.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: During the course of
the transportation. That is not what you say in your
brief. I'm looking at page 41 and what you say is: "If
no independent evidence establishes that concealment or
disguising of the pertinent attribute of the proceeds
would occur at the point of destination, then a
factfinder would lack a reasonable basis for inferring
that the transportation was designed to conceal or
disguise."
In other words, in the hypothetical
Justice Scalia just gave -- in other words everybody
knows he's a drug dealer, he spends the money -- there
is no concealment or disguising the pertinent attribute
at the point of destination.
MS. SCHERTLER: That -- the sentence,
Mr. Chief Justice, that you just read is the last in a
series of "if's" that we lay out in our brief, where we
-- where we assert that at any point in the
transportation a jury could find evidence of a design to
conceal or disguise. And that last sentence says if
they haven't found any evidence concerning the means and
the method and the person used for the act of
cross-border transportation, and if in addition there
was no evidence of what would occur at the point of
destination, then there would be no evidence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So there is no money
laundering if they conceal the proceeds in a suitcase
that's in the trunk of the car? Is that enough?
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, that would --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that concealing
the money?
MS. SCHERTLER: If we're talking about just
the attribute of location, use of a suitcase I would say
provides some evidence that there was a design to
conceal the location of those illegal proceeds during --
as part of this cross-border transportation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does use of a
suitcase provide that evidence?
MS. SCHERTLER: I think it would provide
basis for a jury to make --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When I use a
suitcase I'm using it to carry my clothes, not to
conceal them.
MS. SCHERTLER: And if the jury were
presented with testimony that that was the design --
that the only design, the only purpose, the only plan in
using that suitcase was to use it to secure money for
travel, then we would not have met our burden, but based
solely on the circumstances.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, your answer to
Justice Scalia's hypothetical is still not clear to me.
It -- it seems to me your answer should be yes, because
he's concealing the ownership as of the time he goes
across the border, which brings me to my earlier
question, if once it's concealed, the statute is always
-- is always valid.
Then you indicated that oh, well, what
happens at the destination is very important. Then we
had Justice Scalia's hypothetical. I'm not sure where
you came out on that.
MS. SCHERTLER: Oh, our -- let me -- let me
be clear. I think even if one were to hypothesize that
there would be no effort whatsoever to conceal the money
at the point of destination, but a jury could find that
the transportation itself was designed in other
respects -- in its method, in its means -- to conceal or
disguise an attribute of the proceeds, that would be
enough to find that it was designed in whole or in part,
in any part --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So Concealment,
concealment during the transportation is always a
concealment of an attribute under the statute. That has
to be your position.
MS. SCHERTLER: Concealment -- yes. The
only exception that we make would be in the Chief
Justice's example, if the jury were to find that there
was no design to conceal the location, for instance, to
prevent its discovery; it was only -- my only design was
to secure this for transport, like I put my money in my
wallet to do that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you a broader
question, forgetting the text of the statute for just a
minute, because the text is extremely broad. Do you
think the question whether there's an attempt to create
an appearance of legitimate wealth has anything to do
with the analysis? The question presented is whether
there must be such a --
MS. SCHERTLER: The question presented --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And you're arguing that's
totally irrelevant and that -- and also that that
familiar title, "Money Laundering," totally irrelevant?
MS. SCHERTLER: Your Honor, we disagree that
there is any -- there is no appearance of legitimate
wealth requirement in the statute. This --
JUSTICE STEVENS: There is no -- okay.
MS. SCHERTLER: This statute --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And the term "laundering"
really should be totally ignored?
MS. SCHERTLER: The term "laundering" under
-- when it is understood to mean the way Congress meant
it and the way Congress was viewing this conduct is much
broader than Petitioner suggests.
Laundering is the many ways in which
criminals prevent detection of their proceeds. It would
include and Congress certainly had evidence before it --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand you could
find a violation of it, but what I'm really asking you:
Is this just a total wild goose chase? We shouldn't
even consider laundering at all? As I understand your
argument, it's totally irrelevant.
MS. SCHERTLER: The title of the statute
says -- but the terms of the statute are what matter
here.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So it is irrelevant?
MS. SCHERTLER: The terms are plain. But
even if you were to look at the term "laundering," it
would not support Petitioner's argument that that has a
narrow meaning that includes only conduct that creates
an appearance of legitimate wealth.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if this fellow
were driving to Canada would that be a different case,
because Canada does not have the sort of cash economy
we've heard about in Mexico?
MS. SCHERTLER: If the method of
transportation were exactly the same, it would make no
difference, Your Honor. In this case, this -- this
transportation method was designed, a jury could find
beyond a reasonable doubt, to conceal or disguise the
ownership and control of the proceeds through the third
party, and if that were the case and they were going to
Mexico it would be the same. The nature and the
location of the proceeds through the use of this secret
compartment and the goat hair to discuss the scent of
the proceeds from the drug detection dog.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, what if the
fellow says: You know, there are dangerous roads
between here and Mexico. I'm hiding the money so that
if, you know, a gang comes up they don't find it. And
you say: No, we think you're hiding it because it's
illegal proceeds? Is that enough to get to the jury?
MS. SCHERTLER: I think that's enough to get
to the jury, and that would be a jury question, Your
Honor, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just to be clear, you
affirmatively say that concealing to transport is
enough, right?
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes, Your Honor. It's --
that is enough. Concealing to transport when the jury
-- when it is part of the design of the transportation
to conceal the location, nature, source, ownership, or
control, any single one of those things. And all of
those are in here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why do you make
distinctions between methods of concealment? And if the
design is to get the money out of the country, why
should it matter whether you put it in a travel bag, you
put it in the glove compartment, you put it in your
wallet, or you go through this elaborate disguise that
we see here?
What -- if what's important is getting it
beyond the border beyond the reach of law enforcement in
the United States, why should it make a difference how
carefully it is concealed?
MS. SCHERTLER: That need not make a
difference if there is evidence before the jury, if
there is evidence that the ultimate design of the
transportation is to conceal or disguise the proceeds at
the point of destination.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then your only
defense is to go across the border and before you go
across you put all the money in your arms so the people
can see it? That's the way you do it?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Other than that?
MS. SCHERTLER: In that situation, there
would no basis to find concealment or disguise of
location. Now, some of the other attributes may be at
issue if a third party is conducting that
transportation, but location from the method alone. So
the jury would need information about, well, what is the
design, what is the purpose of this cross-border
transportation? They could still find that the
necessary design to conceal or disguise is satisfied by
evidence that the whole purpose here is to get it to
Mexico where it will be turned into legitimate wealth,
for instance.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's transporting to
conceal.
MS. SCHERTLER: That's -- and I, for one --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you're saying this
statute covers both?
MS. SCHERTLER: It covers both, Your Honor.
It asks broadly what was this -- how was this
transportation designed and planned out in whole or in
part? In any part, was it designed to conceal or
disguise? And that would encompass all of the stages
that we are -- that we are discussing.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In your brief, you said
the bulk cash statute would not apply to a courier. Do
you still take that position, that the government's
choice is to indict for money laundering or nothing?
MS. SCHERTLER: The bulk cash -- well,
the bulk -- in this case, there's no evidence in this
record that a bulk cash smuggling statute charge would
have been viable because there's no evidence in this
record that this defendant knew of a currency reporting
requirement and intended to evade it.
Petitioner's argument that the bulk cash
smuggling statute shows that the conduct here was not
intended to be covered by the money laundering statute
is incorrect for the very reason that Justice Kennedy
has identified. The bulk cash smuggling statute could
not have filled a gap in the money laundering statute
for the conduct here because it has always contained a
provision that covers the transportation of known
illegal proceeds across the border to evade a --
reporting requirements.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There's no principle that
all criminal statutes have to cover every -- every bad
act. Maybe Congress has left a gap. I'm willing to
entertain the possibility that this individual,
obviously doing something very bad, doesn't -- falls
between the two stools. He is neither guilty under the
taking currency out of the country statute because he
didn't know of the existence of the statute, and he's
not guilty under one because he was not transporting to
conceal but was concealing to transport. And so there's
a gap. The Justice Department can certainly get that
gap filled readily enough. I don't know why we should
torture either one of the statutes to close it.
MS. SCHERTLER: The plain reading of the
money laundering statute covers this conduct, and
Congress specifically had this conduct in mind. As
Senator Biden said in questioning -- and he became one
of the co-sponsors -- questioning a witness about this:
Isn't it the truth that if we -- if we strengthen all
our domestic controls against money laundering, aren't
the criminals going to resort to physically transporting
their cash out of the United States? This is a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How many co-sponsors
were there?
MS. SCHERTLER: I don't know, Your Honor.
This is part of the core conduct at which
this statute was directed, this international
concealment money laundering statute.
JUSTICE BREYER: How does that show what you
want it to show? I mean, what I just heard you say is
that Senator Biden said if we make it very tough to
launder money in the United States, then criminals will
send their money abroad to be laundered.
MS. SCHERTLER: And --
JUSTICE BREYER: They'll transport it abroad
in order to launder it. How does that help you?
MS. SCHERTLER: They will resort to taking
their money physically out of the United States. And
the Senate report says that this provision was designed
to halt this flow.
JUSTICE BREYER: In order to launder it.
Were they not talking about money laundering?
MS. SCHERTLER: If the premise --
JUSTICE BREYER: Or were they not talking
about it? I'm just going back -- I didn't read Senator
Biden's statement, so I'm just curious.
MS. SCHERTLER: This provision was directed
at preventing the illegal moneys from leaving the
country. It would have made no sense for Congress,
having understood that when money leaves the United
States we have little if any ability to know what
happens to it, to require in the statute proof beyond a
reasonable doubt of what would happen to the money once
it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you're trying to prevent
the money --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you, in response to
one of my hypotheticals, said that it would be relevant
in some cases to show that it was designed to create the
appearance of legitimate wealth. So you put that back
in --
MS. SCHERTLER: If --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you put that back into
play.
MS. SCHERTLER: If we have that evidence,
yes, Your Honor. But to take Petitioner's position that
it would be necessary evidence in every case in which to
prevail under this statute to know of future plans to
launder abroad, when the premise of this statute is that
when the money leaves the country we cannot know what
happens to it, makes no sense.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if --- if that's what
they're concerned about, taking the money out of the
country, why do they have the concealment requirement?
They could have just said, you know, if you take dirty
money out of the country you're guilty.
MS. SCHERTLER: They --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They didn't say that. They
have a concealment -- I can't understand why, if the
money is hidden during the transportation, it's any
worse than when the money is not hidden during the
transportation. It isn't -- it isn't the hiding during
the transportation they're concerned about. The statute
doesn't make any sense that way.
MS. SCHERTLER: I think that it does, Your
Honor.
The Court -- the Congress certainly could
have written it in the broad way that you've suggested.
It's not unlike the way that they wrote section 1957,
which covers broadly all transactions in illegal money.
They chose to not cover everything and to
cover cross-border transportation's where there's
evidence of some intent on the part of that individual
to conceal or disguise. And when you think about it,
they had set up regulatory provisions like the
transaction reporting requirement when there's no
conceal or disguise. There were other controls in place
as, say, the first line of defense against money
laundering to say, $10,000 or more is leaving the
country, we're going to know about it because we have
reporting requirements.
Here the Senate report says that they made
the decision to require evidence of concealment.
"Evidence of concealment of a crime" is what the report
says. And any time one of these attributes of illegal
proceeds is being concealed or disguised, that is
concealing a crime in a way that impairs law enforcement
from finding those proceeds.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask -- may I ask
this question? If the statute did include -- and I know
you think it does not -- a requirement of trying to
create an appearance of legitimate wealth, you would
lose? In this case.
MS. SCHERTLER: I don't think so, Your
Honor, and I would -- I would go back to the evidence
that Justice Alito has pointed out that is in this
record, that there's evidence in this record that --
that the -- by taking the funds to Mexico, they would be
able to be used in a way that would not raise suspicion.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, there's also,
consistent with the evidence, they want to pay the drug
dealer for the drugs. And then a jury -- you can't say
it's clear beyond a reasonable doubt that that was not
what it was going on.
MS. SCHERTLER: There was -- I would not --
I would not disagree with that. I think that we do -- I
see that my red light is on.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't you finish
your answer?
MS. SCHERTLER: Your Honor, there was --
there was evidence in this case that the proceeds were
removed -- this is expert testimony -- removed from the
United States to conceal so as not to go through
reporting requirements, so that the money would not be
identified to U.S. law enforcement. We believe the jury
could also infer that further efforts to conceal and
disguise those proceeds would occur at the point of
destination.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Schertler.
Mr. Beard, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JERRY V. BEARD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BEARD: Justice Scalia, when I left we
were discussing --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I forget what it was that I
didn't understand.
(Laughter.)
MR. BEARD: Happily I've been thinking about
it. Disruption versus detection I had told you, told
the Court that this was not a detection statute as much
as it is a disruption statute.
I think it is important for the Court to
recall that the very broad interpretations that the
government advances today are essentially the very broad
interpretations that the Congress rejected explicitly 20
years ago. The Congress rejected the notion that the
transportation of illicit funds in and of itself created
money laundering liability. And we've discussed that.
I think it's important, Justice Scalia, in
particular, in response to your question to bring this
up, because the Congress recognized that detection would
be harder in rejecting that type of legislation, but
rejected that they did.
The Congress has also shown itself capable
of -- of -- in the 1957 context of taking transactions
involving unlawful proceeds and making those per se
illegal. They could have easily done the same thing in
the transportation context if they had wanted to, but
instead they were looking at the separate behavior that
comprises money laundering. I mean, it is the notion
that you're taking money somewhere else and you're doing
something else and it gives rise to separate liability.
I think the true harm in the government's
interpretation, it basically conflates liability for
money laundering with the underlying offense, because
all of the underlying offenses involve concealment.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask the same basic
question of you? Do you think that this line, "create
an appearance of legitimate wealth" is an essential
element of the offense?
MR. BEARD: It is not an element,
Justice Stevens. As I said, so --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So then your question
presented raised that question, you're walking away from
that question?
MR. BEARD: We have spoken in the question
presented in that broad term, because we think that that
language encapsulates what's taking place.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It is not an essential
element of the offense?
MR. BEARD: It's not an element. But what
is an essential element is the need for the
transportation -- the transportation to be designed to
accomplish the same thing, to obfuscate those
attributes. It's -- and that's -- and therein is the
reason why --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- the same thing,
appearance of legitimate wealth goes to one of the
attributes, the nature of what's being transported. It
doesn't go to all the other attributes.
MR. BEARD: The Congress had identified,
Justice Alito, those particular attributes as being key
to allowing the launderer to inject the money back into
commerce. It may be that nature is implicated more
often, but the Congress chose to list the others because
they felt that those were the particular attributes
that, broadly speaking, allowed for the laundering
process.
This notion of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the evidence is
clear that he knew he was taking it across the border
and it was to pay the drug dealer? Would that suffice?
MR. BEARD: For liability under the statute,
Justice? No, because the purpose there was not to
obscure the attributes. It is simply repayment. It's
the final leg, if you will --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but -- no, no. He
conceals it, in order to pay the drug dealer.
MR. BEARD: Yes. I'm saying that -- I may
have misunderstood. If you are saying Mr. Cuellar were
to know he was paying the drug dealer?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. BEARD: That wouldn't give rise to
laundering, because all you have there basically is
money spending. It's the conduct of the underlying --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's concealing who owns
and controls.
MR. BEARD: No, I don't think so. I think
what you would have under these circumstances is merely
the final step, if you will, in the underlying unlawful
activity.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Beard, can't you give
us something we can get this guy on?
(Laughter.)
MR. BEARD: I'm not comfortable doing that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He's carrying dirty money.
It even smells of drugs.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can't we get him as an
accessory to drug dealing or something? You say he has
to walk?
MR. BEARD: Well, Justice, I'm not
uncomfortable with the notion of him walking, because
I'm not uncomfortable with the notion you brought up
earlier with that there may indeed be a gap. If there
is a gap, then there's a remedy for that. But I think
that if --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The point -- the point
about aiding and abetting something, this money reeks of
marijuana, and that was very puzzling to me. Why this
is the standard operating procedure to take this money
and wrap it in containers that had contained the drug.
So when the police find it, they know it's drug money.
MR. BEARD: Justice, I know that the --
initially the way this went down was the money that was
in his pocket. That's what triggered the -- that's what
they said smelled like raw marijuana. And then
eventually, they found the drug money. And I can't tell
you why they did it this way. But I think that your
question underscores they were concerned not with
obfuscating any attributes, obviously, they were
concerned with getting this money back to repay the
person who had sent the drugs north under the
government's theory.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Beard. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
51:3 25:16,22 28:14 asks 33:13 48:3 37:12 believe 54:12
30:19 53:18 57:1,6 Assistant 1:16 25:20 beyond 28:5
36:4 Alito's 29:7 1:18 based 32:20 30:5 32:21
53:21 allowed 57:11 assume 17:13,17 42:8 34:1 45:13
59:22 amount 7:9 24:17 basically 14:11 53:25
50:10,12 13:22 assuming 40:4 56:3 58:3 50:8
analysis 23:3 attempt 16:22 basis 33:25 Biden's 50:23
18:8 answer 13:9 attribute 20:1 47:11 bit 26:1
33:25 14:4 26:9 27:4 34:7 40:15,23 Beard 1:16 2:3,8 blank 25:17
20:17 19:15,24 23:15 9:21 10:21 28:16 29:1
13:7,8,25 47:12 53:7 12:16 13:1,10 32:18,19 36:9
15:25 16:22 56:24 57:3,4,6 13:13 14:3,17 37:3 38:7
27:23 43:20 57:10,19 59:15 14:23 15:2,5,7 42:14 46:21
51:12 53:14 21:15 16:3,19,24 57:15
49:5 APPEARAN... 9:23,23 16:4 18:12,24 19:5 box 26:6,19
20:8 appropriate 21:3,13,18,23 11:4 29:6
B 22:2,8,16,22 34:25 35:3,8
58:10
2:2,7 3:3,6 5:2 24:21 26:21 54:19,20,22 40:13 41:2
54:20 51:12,15 53:17 58:11,14,21 55:14
56:16 8:21 9:5 12:11 clear 42:11,22 3:22,24 4:1,13 confronted 36:1
29:15 15:11,16 17:16 57:15 42:15 46:23 35:14
43:16 17:16 22:11 close 33:18 53:8 Congress 29:23
45:7 48:9,12 49:15 concealing 3:13 31:24 34:15
52:17 49:24 closer 9:13 10:1 22:25 23:1,6,8 38:14,20 44:10
category 22:15 18:16 33:23 34:7,20 44:11,15 49:5
37:24 3:24 5:7,19 24:14 27:4 41:15 42:13 55:15,18 57:5
38:4 8:24 10:2 comes 9:6 45:23 46:5,8 49:12 57:9
22:10 38:5 44:15 coming 6:5 14:2 20:19 consider 10:5
49:13 52:14 commerce 4:10 25:2 27:22 44:19
cetera 30:20 14:8 24:9 57:8 30:21,23 32:7 considerations
compartment 46:14 47:11 consistent 53:23
34:22 3:25 8:25 9:10 comprises 55:24 conceived 28:21 contains 27:23
37:3 9:14 10:17 conceal 3:16,19 concept 24:24 contemplate
41:13 22:18,23 23:4 4:5 5:24 9:1,8 conception 19:24
40:11 41:1,11 21:4 22:20,21 52:10 59:14,16 contemplating
6:8,12 43:10 45:5,20 28:8 32:24 conduct 28:25 context 4:12,14
8:2 9:16 49:25 54:5,17 34:2,24 35:15 35:25 36:5 8:18 23:10
18:12 59:19 36:24 37:5,22 37:19 38:20 30:6 55:19,22
34:13 choice 48:11 38:6,11 39:8 44:11 45:3 control 3:20
chose 52:18 57:9 40:18 41:5,12 48:19,24 49:17 31:13 34:20
51:19 chosen 28:23 41:20 42:3,23 49:18 50:3 37:6,22 38:11
54:8 circumstances 43:1,12 45:13 58:4 40:5 45:14
9:25 42:9 58:8 46:10 47:2,18 conducting 29:2 46:11
cleanse 14:6 49:12 52:21,24 conducts 32:17 49:22 52:24
cleansing 16:9 concealed 3:18 conflates 56:3 converted 20:20
18:1 25:5 7:3 49:4 52:25 55:15 distinction
13:9 30:13 36:3,9 demand 27:24 45:11 46:22,25 46:14
cross 27:25 deposit 26:6,19 26:1,2,16 45:6 dog 45:19
25:7,17 32:19 13:23 directed 35:20 doing 49:7 55:25
34:6 crossing 30:22 describe 31:20 37:21 50:4,24 58:14
37:15 31:6 described 10:1 directs 28:11 domestic 49:22
49:9 cross-border 12:18 14:9 dirty 5:16,16 doubt 28:5
52:1,3 28:12 34:15 25:25 13:3,3,4,6,7,16 32:21 34:1
41:8,21 47:16 describing 16:7 13:20,24,24 45:13 51:5
10:3,23 3:17 6:3 18:13 6:6 9:24 12:24 20:11,18 52:2 drawing 16:1
37:2 18:15 57:24 13:15,18,20 58:15 drew 35:14
48:9 Cuellar's 3:14 15:25 25:13 disagree 44:2 drive 17:3
15:19 curious 50:23 37:7,8 38:10 discover 24:10 driving 45:6
21:6 33:7 currency 8:11 39:8,15,15 discovery 43:13 drove 36:19
8:17 48:16 41:4,19 42:5,6 discuss 45:18 drug 5:21 6:11
52:14 currency-repo... 46:15 47:1,16 discussing 48:7 12:25 15:22
21:19,23 22:5 47:18 54:23 16:15 20:16,19
D 28:24 12:14 18:19 37:3,8 38:4
48:20 daily 32:18 14:5 19:7 28:8 25:13 28:9 45:19 53:23
52:17 45:21 32:24 34:2,2 39:9 40:19 58:19 59:6,7
dealer 32:17 42:25 43:3 45:13 46:18 drugs 9:17
21:6 40:22 53:24 50:16 51:11 48:6 52:21,24 53:24 58:16
51:11 57:16,22,25 56:22 54:14 59:17
56:7 dealing 58:19 destination disguised 40:6,7 D.C 1:9,19
22:15 defendant 28:5 detect 30:12 disruption 55:3 earlier 42:14
53:6,9 36:19 37:13 detection 5:21 55:5 58:24
et 30:20 eyes 7:21 30:19,19 give 17:11 31:19
49:1 F focusing 25:2 58:2,11
17:17 everybody fact 3:18 5:15 foremost 19:14 56:1
14:15,21 39:20 6:3 7:17 8:13 forget 24:18 giving 37:25
49:15 18:13 32:20 fall 12:15 16:18 forward 21:4 53:17 54:10
40:14 41:4,6,9 falls 10:20 49:7 41:6 59:12 goat 3:23 5:20
44:15 46:25 familiar 44:1 fraud 32:3 goes 13:6 42:13
48:15 51:17,19 fancy 37:1 funds 5:12 29:5
53:17,19,23 February 1:10 53:20 55:11 14:15 18:10
exactly 12:7 fellow 9:6 17:12 further 54:13 24:14,17 29:4
48:6 37:18 45:10 felt 57:10 38:6 40:9
33:21 28:11 filled 48:23 G 3:1 50:22 53:2
46:21 example 6:4 49:14 gambling 29:20 54:1
54:12 7:15 22:24 filter 34:17 gang 45:23 good 11:23
existence 3:13 34:24 41:4 getting 4:25 55:8
15:21 54:9 47:11,17 59:7 46:20 59:16 30:25 37:14
27:15 finish 54:5 6:19 7:1,8 8:20 59:18
explanation 19:14 30:4 22:4,14 26:5 guidelines 38:15
explicitly 55:9 fit 12:22 22:15 37:17 46:13 guilty 7:18 22:6
15:20,20 25:1 flow 50:17 59:2 52:3
eyebrows 15:16 focus 27:8 29:24 38:13
23:21,24 13:24 intended 48:17 5:18,23 6:2,15
hurt 18:7 22:23 27:6 25:13 39:2,12 8:25 9:11,14
51:4,23 42:22 imposed 31:24 interest 30:25 12:5,17,22
16:11 18:15 include 28:22 27:22 30:6,17 14:25 15:4,6
52:7,8 54:12 57:5 40:14 32:2 22:19,23 23:4
29:9,13 ignored 44:8 42:17 involved 3:16 24:4,13,16,19
ii 8:8 21:12 indicates 7:10 38:18 25:6,11,16,22
8:21 27:25 48:11 irrelevant 43:25 27:3,10,12,14
24:7,13 28:6,7,13,25 individual 7:17 44:1,20,24 27:17,20 28:14
35:11 30:12 31:11 16:25 24:7 Islands 26:25 29:6,7 30:15
52:9 32:2,6,11,22 28:24 38:16 issue 47:13 31:3,15 32:4
45:25 inference 7:14 J 34:3,10,12,19
11:6 12:1 55:21 7:22 Juarez 39:21 36:25 37:7,17
21:18 illegitimate 36:6 inferring 40:17 judge 11:21,22 37:24 38:3,8
26:9 30:2 illicit 36:19 information 12:2 38:13 39:1,11
32:8 33:7 55:11 47:15 jurisdiction 39:14,20,23
34:9 impairs 53:9 initially 59:9 25:25 40:7,11,21
39:7 implicate 8:18 inject 4:9 57:7 jury 34:1 41:4 41:1,11,15,22
45:11 12:4 22:2 injection 14:7 41:25 42:4,24 42:1,10,11,19
48:2 implicated 5:8 24:9 43:11 45:12,25 43:5,16,24
51:18 57:8 innocent 7:2 46:2,2,8,25 44:5,7,16,24
53:17 implicates 12:18 20:17 47:15 53:24 45:5,20 46:4
14:12 18:3 instance 4:20 54:12 46:13 47:4,9
48:8 52:2 53:2,12 46:21 53:9 3:23 4:1,3,11 means 4:6,14
49:3,13 57:25 59:7,8 54:12 4:13,14,15,19 19:4,5,15,15
50:6,12 knowing 7:8 lawful 8:22 4:21,22 9:1,9 19:22 20:4,22
51:7 knowledge 22:7 laws 25:8,18 9:20 23:2,8,10 28:18 31:6
known 6:4 28:7 lay 41:2 23:16,22,23,25 36:7 41:6 43:1
53:11,18 28:13,25 32:22 lead 26:16 24:7,14 25:9 meant 44:10
54:5,17 48:25 leave 24:17 32:24 34:21 mechanism 16:9
55:13 knows 28:5,6 leaves 51:2,22 41:18,20 43:12 merely 18:21
35:3 36:15,16 leaving 50:25 45:17 46:10 32:22 58:8
37:1 39:20 53:1 47:12,14 met 42:8
58:1,5 40:22 left 22:9 49:5 look 20:16 28:20 method 3:15
54:22 30:5 45:1 4:21 5:5,9,14
L leg 6:10 57:20 looking 6:2 25:2 28:16,23
21:8,15 56:17 36:6 43:20 15:16 21:10 46:14
22:1 large 13:22 44:3 45:4 33:2 36:25 Mexican 15:1
Laughter 11:16 47:20 51:12 luxury 13:23 Mexico 6:8 9:25
11:19 33:16 53:14 56:8 14:19,22 15:9
43:5 35:12 47:8 57:2 M 15:11 17:16
48:21 55:1 58:13,17 let's 17:17 32:16 making 11:21 32:20 37:12
57:14 launder 50:9,13 liability 7:6,6 23:24 34:13 39:2,21 45:8
58:1,5 50:18 51:21 10:2,14 11:12 55:20 45:16,22 47:20
37:16 57:7 57:17 6:20,24 9:4 35:25 49:18
5:12 7:4,20 light 54:4 matter 1:12 8:20 minute 43:18
48:16 11:12 12:4,21 31:2 46:16 59:22 misunderstood
13:12 18:4 line 22:19 52:25 mattress 24:23 13:19 57:24
8:7 9:4,4 27:7,23 29:17 LISA 1:18 2:5 mean 5:14,15 modify 16:11
10:2 29:19,22,25 27:18 8:14 15:13,14 Monday 1:10
12:9 30:7 35:9,21 list 57:9 15:15 16:11 Monetary 35:10
14:14,16 35:24 36:1,2 listed 4:3 5:10 17:10 18:6,20 money 3:10,18
15:19 39:5 41:12 10:9 16:8 20:17,24 22:25 3:24 4:9,13,15
17:14 44:1,7,9,13,19 23:20 27:15 28:15 5:12 6:4,7,13
19:20,21 45:1 48:11,20 literal 12:23 29:23 34:14 6:14 7:2,4,10
26:15 48:23 49:17,22 literally 4:25 37:8 44:10 7:20 8:22 9:12
35:9 50:5,19 53:1 30:1 50:7 55:24 9:24 10:1,5,6
55:12,24 56:4 little 24:2 26:1 meaning 4:11 10:13,18 11:12
49:10 57:11 58:3 51:3 10:8 19:10 12:4,6,14,18
50:2 law 4:8 31:25 lives 39:2,4,21 20:5,14 21:3 12:19,20,21,25
33:21 38:25 location 3:19,22 23:16,19 45:3 12:25 13:2,3
14:12,16 narrow 29:24 54:14 41:21 43:3,4 30:22,23 37:12
15:8 45:3 occurs 16:7 46:9 48:5,5 39:3 52:24
17:5 nature 3:19 8:4 offense 38:17,18 50:3 52:20 56:17
18:3,3 12:14,24 13:2 56:4,9,19 particular 4:3,6 plain 44:25
20:16 15:1 18:19,23 offenses 56:5 5:7 6:9,12 10:8 49:16
21:7 19:8,10,11,14 offered 15:18,19 15:21 37:19 plan 4:7 28:11
20:1,14,16,18 oh 19:20 22:1 55:14 57:6,10 28:20 32:25
20:18,20,22 42:17,21 particularly 36:23 37:11
24:8 21:17 22:20 okay 11:24 23:19 39:17 42:6
23:6,7 45:16 19:20 24:13 parties 37:19,21 planned 28:13
46:10 57:3,8 33:2 35:1 44:5 party 37:20 38:9 28:21 48:4
27:7,22 necessarily 4:6 once 16:14 18:9 38:17 40:10 plans 51:20
5:12 10:3,5 25:9,19 31:11 45:15 47:13 play 25:1 51:16
30:6 11:11 16:7 42:15 51:5 pay 10:23 17:12 pleaded 7:17
35:21 17:5 22:25 ones 34:18 17:23 18:6,9 please 3:9 27:21
36:1,2 23:1 operating 59:5 29:19 53:23 pocket 32:19,23
necessary 47:18 operation 29:20 57:16,22 59:10
51:19 opposed 7:14 paying 57:25 point 4:1 11:1
38:22,23 necessitate 31:5 penalty 6:17 12:1 16:19
39:3,4 22:11 oral 1:12 2:2 3:6 36:12 17:3 25:11
40:22 need 17:3 34:11 27:18 people 12:10 39:19,19 40:16
42:7 38:23 46:24 order 11:2 27:2 15:15 16:15 40:24 41:3,9
43:14 47:15 56:21 29:12 30:12 29:20 47:6 42:24 47:3
45:22 needs 36:22 31:19 36:20 percent 35:5 54:14 59:2,2
47:6 neither 49:8 38:23 50:13,18 perfectly 8:22 pointed 53:18
north 59:17 57:22 permit 33:7 police 9:3,11,22
50:5 notion 10:6 11:9 ordinary 32:1 person 12:7,8 9:22 10:9,19
12:19 55:10,24 outside 30:10 16:12 25:17 24:9 26:22,24
57:13 58:22,23 31:12 32:6,11 36:13,17 39:1 59:7
number 26:12 34:6 39:3 41:7 position 43:8
55:12,24 32:17 owned 6:4,5 59:17 48:10 51:18
56:4 numbers 4:4 owner 37:22 pertinent 40:15 possess 6:24
58:4,15 numerical 26:12 ownership 3:19 40:23 possesses 7:1
5:25 9:2,9,20 Petitioner 1:5 possibility 22:16
O 16:15,17 34:21 1:17 2:4,9 3:7 49:6
56:23 45:14 46:10 Petitioner's 28:1 premise 31:11
59:15 P phrase 28:10,19 42:5 43:21,23
59:15 30:6 36:22,23 13:6,21,22 prevent 14:7
43:13 48:25 50:16,24 range 36:5 51:10 55:14
51:7 provisions 52:22 raw 59:11 remain 13:5 responses 30:3
purchases 12:12 46:21 remaining 54:19 result 17:19
17:10,13,18,23 41:1 50:22 removed 54:9,9 17:1 24:8
31:20 37:18,20 ready 18:10 repayment 6:12 right 10:17,20
6:21 8:14 purposed 14:5 44:8,17 reply 7:15 rise 56:1 58:2
14:6,6 19:7 reason 10:7 12:8 report 50:16 roads 45:21
19:1 purposely 34:25 12:17 29:18 53:4,6 ROBERTS 3:3
purposes 8:21 31:23 48:21 reporting 8:4 3:21 8:25 9:14
22:20 put 9:23 26:6 56:25 21:8 48:16 22:18 23:4,13
27:25 33:15 36:15 reasonable 28:5 49:2 52:23 24:1,4,13,16
43:14 46:16,17 32:21 34:1 53:3 54:11 26:10 27:12,17
30:9,12 46:17 47:6 40:17 45:13 require 7:14 8:3 33:19 40:11
31:11 51:12,15 51:5 53:25 18:25 28:4 41:11,15,22
puts 32:18 33:1 reasons 3:15 51:4 53:5 42:1 45:5,20
36:4,9 33:2 34:25 29:1 required 18:25 49:25 54:5,17
38:12 putting 26:19 rebuttal 2:7 requirement 4:5 59:19
40:5 32:23 27:5 54:20 8:5 17:4,18 run 29:20
41:12,20 puzzling 59:4 recall 55:7 21:9,16,19,22
44:14 recognized 21:24,25 22:5 S
Q 55:15 27:24 30:18 S 2:1 3:1
49:1 53:8 quarrel 20:23 record 10:12 31:2,17,19,24 safe 26:6
54:8,14 question 14:4 14:24 48:14,16 44:4 48:17 safety 26:19
23:14 29:7,11 53:19,19 52:1,23 53:13 satisfied 18:21
28:4 46:2 53:12 referenced 7:8 22:6 saw 36:2 38:21
55:14 56:7,12 23:14 reserve 27:10 saying 7:2 23:15
59:14 REGALADO 50:14 35:4,6,6,8 40:9
52:22 respects 43:1 16:12 25:17
R 3:1 55:17 1:20 2:6 27:19 41:5 44:22
secure 42:7 situation 47:10 States 1:1,7,13 stores 13:23
43:14 smelled 59:11 3:4 6:16,20 streams 14:7
26:22 see 4:18 10:16 smells 58:16 12:13 13:25 strengthen
33:1,4 20:12 22:1 Smith 12:2 28:1 29:1 49:21
39:20,23 38:19 46:19 smuggling 7:7 30:11,24 31:12 strong 7:25 8:1
46:4 47:7 54:4 7:18,22 8:1,5 32:1 46:22 stumbled 10:10
51:7,24 seen 5:3 8:10,11 22:11 49:24 50:9,15 submit 28:22
54:22,24 select 40:9 48:14,19,22 51:3 54:10 submitted 59:20
58:11,15 Senate 50:16 social 38:5 statute 3:10,12 59:22
53:4 sold 9:4,17 5:1 7:7 8:1,2,5 subsequent
50:8,22 solely 30:19 42:9 10:20 11:1,6 suffice 57:16
27:17,18 25:17,24 26:3 sorry 15:5 18:1 22:6,13 16:5 29:4
28:17 sense 4:1 9:2 sort 45:7 23:15,18 25:10 suggested 7:5
31:8,21 19:17 51:1,23 sounds 11:20 27:7,8,9,16,23 16:6 25:12,14
52:11 source 3:19 28:2,4,9 29:15 52:15
sent 14:19 25:14 46:10 30:7,8,8 31:4 suggesting
34:8,11 59:17 Souter 13:5,11 31:10,11,22 20:25 23:17
35:2 sentence 40:25 13:18 14:3 33:13 35:9,18 26:18
36:22 41:5 30:15 31:15 35:20,22,24 suggestion
38:2,8 sentencing 33:9,14 37:24 37:10,21 38:1 13:15
38:14 38:3,8 42:15 43:7,17 suggests 4:4
separate 55:23 South 21:20 44:4,6,21,22 24:7 28:20
56:1 speaking 57:11 48:1,9,14,19 29:11 31:3
43:9 series 41:2 speaks 8:11,12 48:20,22,23 44:12
44:2,6,9 set 30:11 34:17 specifically 11:8 49:9,10,17 suitcase 41:12
45:9 39:1 52:22 49:18 50:4,5 51:4,20 41:18,23 42:2
shipment 21:9 specified 18:20 51:21 52:10 42:7
48:2 shoe 29:21 33:1 19:18 53:12 55:4,5 support 7:22
49:16 33:2,15 34:22 spend 15:8,16 57:17 25:4 45:2
35:1,10 17:16 40:1 statutes 49:4,15 supported 7:20
51:14,17 shorthand 16:6 spendable 18:11 statutory 17:8 28:2
53:16 show 19:1 32:21 spending 12:19 step 58:9 suppose 7:19 9:2
50:6,7 51:11 12:20 13:23 Stevens 5:13,18 12:5 16:11
shows 36:14 18:3,3 58:4 18:24 19:2,9 39:1 57:14
16:6 18:16 stages 48:6 56:11,12,18 12:6 36:10
23:1 26:6 tool 31:20 41:8,21 42:25 underlying
38:15 8:9,12 9:5,12 44:20 55:11,22 56:22 understand 5:8
tough 50:8 56:22 6:24 8:17 9:10
15:14 17:1,7 18:15 6:23 transporting 9:1 44:16,19 52:6
19:7 18:25 19:3,5 transaction 8:15 10:18,19,22,24 54:25
29:18 19:13,15 20:4 8:17,18 15:22 11:2,22 12:8 understanding
32:11 20:14 21:25 15:23 52:23 12:12 27:1 22:12
33:10 22:22,23 23:2 transactions 35:15 47:22 understood 4:12
37:2 23:9 24:6,25 8:12 32:17 49:11,23 13:14 23:10
51:18 25:24 26:2 52:17 55:19 transports 12:5 44:10 51:2
59:5 27:3,6 29:23 transaction-re... 37:14 United 1:1,7,13
35:21 37:9,10 transfer 25:7 46:16 12:13 13:25
43:19 45:24 transformed true 8:24 21:3 30:11,24 31:12
19:25 53:13,16 54:3 transmission 56:2 49:24 50:9,15
41:17 55:6,13 56:2,7 11:8 trunk 41:13 51:2 54:10
56:16 58:7,7 transport 9:7 truth 49:21 unlawful 3:12
45:1 40:9 45:14 transportation turned 47:20 use 12:11 13:22
47:13 3:15,17 4:20 turns 9:18 30:12 32:1
13:19 20:5 8:4 9:8 10:25 type 5:22 7:16 45:17
59:19 tin 24:22 29:2,5,9,12 ultimately 30:21 valid 42:16
59:18 44:21 36:23 38:11 unclean 19:16 verb 21:1,2
22:25 told 55:3,3 40:12,18 41:4 58:22,23 viable 48:15
wide 36:5 1986 36:2
28:17 29:17 27 2:6
46:18 16:4 17:4 23:6 3
50:7 31:18 40:20,21
4
12:22 16:21
33:5 58:2
29:10 written 52:15
38:21,21 wrong 11:4,5
44:10,11 wrote 52:16
52:11,15
53:9,21 X
x 1:2,8 7:9
Y
27:24 years 55:10
43:20
45:4 $
51:12 $10,000 53:1
56:8 $80,000 9:17
0
1:6 3:4
40:4 100 35:5
53:2 11:04 59:21
