IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CBOCS WEST, INC., :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1431
HEDRICK G. HUMPHRIES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, February 20, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:23 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MICHAEL W. HAWKINS, ESQ., Cincinnati, Ohio; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
CYNTHIA H. HYNDMAN, ESQ., Chicago, Ill.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MICHAEL W. HAWKINS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
CYNTHIA H. HYNDMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.,
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondent 44
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL W. HAWKINS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:23 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in Case 06-1431, CBOCS West v. Humphries.
Mr. Hawkins.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL W. HAWKINS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. HAWKINS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Based on the plain terms of section 1981,
this Court's interpretation of that statute under
Runyon, Patterson, and Domino's Pizza, as well as
Congress' recognition of the distinction between
discrimination and retaliation and this Court's decision
in Burlington Northern, section 1981 does not contain a
separate cause of action for retaliation.
The Court starts with a review of the text
of the statute. Section 1981(a) says that all persons
shall have the right, the same right as is enjoyed by
white citizens to make and enforce contracts. Words
like "the same," "equal," and "like" are all in 1981(a),
and those words all have normal, plain, ordinary
meaning, that is identical. So what section 1981 says
is in the making and enforcing of contracts all persons
shall have identical rights as white citizens.
As we move into this issue --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you see any meaningful
difference between the language of 1981 and 1982 in this
regard?
MR. HAWKINS: Justice Alito, I do, and in
that context section 1981 was amended in 1991, and with
a lot of this Court's precedent in terms of how statutes
are viewed, they all have a life. This section 1981 has
a new life when it was amended in 1981.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that it was
narrowed in 1981?
MR. HAWKINS: I think with respect to this
issue, Your Honor, of retaliation, that it was. And I
say it because of this. In 1991, Congress passed the
1991 Civil Rights Act and in that act they also included
retaliation for 2 U.S.C. 1212. So Congress was
consciously thinking about this issue of retaliation.
They had Patterson that had come before it, they had
West Virginia Hospital that had come before it, saying
you have to have specific terms, you have to deal with
specific issues.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, wasn't the purpose of
the 1991 act to broaden the scope of 1981 rather than
narrow it?
MR. HAWKINS: Your Honor, with respect to
the '91 act, it was supposed to specifically pick up the
post-formation contract issues under Patterson.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is to say it was
designed to overrule Patterson.
MR. HAWKINS: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not overrule. They can't
overrule it, but change the law --
MR. HAWKINS: Well, it didn't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- so that Patterson would
no longer be right.
MR. HAWKINS: It didn't change Patterson. I
believe as Chief Judge Easterbrook said, Patterson has
been cited some 27 times by this Court --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: "EES-ter-brook."
MR. HAWKINS: Or "EAS-ter-brook." I'm
sorry. Thank you, Your Honor.
By this Court, and in that context it is
still good law. What it did was to clarify the issue of
post-formation contracts.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you mean Patterson
would come out the same under 1981 as amended by the
1991 act.
MR. HAWKINS: Yes. I think Patterson would
come out the same, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think Congress would
have been quite amazed at that rule.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think that they would be
astounded.
MR. HAWKINS: No. In the context of the new
post-formation -- excuse me. I understood your question
a little differently, Your Honor. Yes, it would come
out differently if you were dealing with the precise
issue in Patterson.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you saying that
before the 1991 amendment retaliation was included?
MR. HAWKINS: No. I would say, Justice
Ginsburg, that before the 1991 amendment retaliation
wasn't included and it wasn't included after the 1991
amendment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What change did the 1991
amendment make then?
MR. HAWKINS: Well, it wasn't included --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You say it was intended to
change the outcome of Patterson. In what respect? You
say not in the respect of whether retaliation is
included but in what respect then?
MR. HAWKINS: In respect to the
post-formation. Patterson was dealing with those
aspects of just the initial making and enforcing of a
contract, not once you've got the contract established
and in this case employment, what happens, promotions,
demotions, actions of that nature, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand you.
Patterson said that post-formation actions were not
covered, right?
MR. HAWKINS: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Retaliation is one, but
just one of many post-formation actions, right?
MR. HAWKINS: Well Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What other post-formation
actions were there that --
MR. HAWKINS: What other post-formation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What was the post-formation
action that was in action in Patterson?
MR. HAWKINS: Patterson was dealing with the
issue about after you had the relationship could an
employer take an adverse discriminatory action against
the individual, and the Court said no. It was dealing
with a harassment situation. Afterwards you could not
have a cause of action in the post-formation situation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And Congress changed that
and the case we have is also post-formation.
MR. HAWKINS: Well, but Congress changed it
to say that it would include, in subsection 1981(b),
that it would include certain specified post-formation
conduct with respect to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It didn't specify them. I
think your point is probably that it includes the same
post-formation conduct that is prohibited at formation,
which is to say discrimination on the basis of race,
which is not retaliation; right?
MR. HAWKINS: It did not change that, that's
correct, Your Honor. It did not add retaliation.
And so what has taken place with respect to this issue
of discrimination and retaliation and the reason that we
say that it does not exist in section 1981 is Congress
in some 30 statutes we've been able to run across has
specifically included retaliation in provisions where
they so applauded appropriate --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under your view, would
harassment be prohibited by 1981 as amended?
MR. HAWKINS: If it is racial harassment,
meaning the treating of someone differently than a white
citizen because of their race, then it would be. That's
the status issue and that's what was addressed in
Burlington Northern in terms of the distinction that
exists between discrimination and retaliation, one being
based on the individual status, which is really what
section 1981 is focused on.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the term "harassment"
is not included in 1981(b).
MR. HAWKINS: Well, if it's just harassment,
Justice Kennedy, in the abstract -- I'm harassing
somebody because I don't like them -- whether they're
black or white, that wouldn't be actionable under
section 1981. You have to have a focus of "I'm taking
this action against the individual because of the color
of their skin, because of their race."
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why isn't that true here?
Because we're not talking about retaliation in a vacuum;
we're talking about retaliation for complaining about
race discrimination.
MR. HAWKINS: Your Honor, if you have a
situation where -- and I think it's even addressed in
some of the Respondent's brief. And many of the cases
going back in the '70s and '80s that were even cited by
the Seventh Circuit, all deal with situations even where
they were, if you want to call them retaliation, they
were retaliation based on directly the person's color of
their skin. They were this particular supervisor or
this employer is taking this or that action against
somebody because they're a black person. They're not
taking --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What kind of -- what kind
of right to be free from discrimination would there be
if once one complains one can be fired, demoted? That
would not be a very effective right, would it be?
MR. HAWKINS: Well, Your Honor, I mean there
are alternatives for that particular issue. In this
particular case, there was Title VII that fully
protected the Respondent from any form of discrimination
or retaliation. In addition, in the State of Illinois
there are state statutes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But one can say the same
thing for Title VII and, say, the Equal Pay Act. There
are a lot of overlapping antidiscrimination laws. That
doesn't mean that we shrink one because another exists.
MR. HAWKINS: No, but there is precedent for
the fact that where one law does cover a particular
situation, we don't go about removing that impact. So
Title VII clearly does cover this particular situation
of a retaliation, a pure retaliation claim.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why did they -- why did
they proceed under Title VII then? What -- what help --
MR. HAWKINS: Well, they did proceed under
Title VII, and that was dismissed by the Federal court
because he did not pay his proper filing fee on time in
compliance with Title VII requirements.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, that's -- that's
often the case, isn't it? I mean, the argument you just
made could go as well to somebody who uses 1981 to
complain about a racially-based demotion wasn't able to
use Title VII because he filed too late. That's a
typical use of 1981; is it not?
MR. HAWKINS: Well, it can be a use, yes,
Your Honor, that people do use it for that very purpose.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what is the difference
between this case -- you say, well, there's Title VII
and this would erode Title VII. Doesn't it erode Title
VII when I'm complaining about, say, a demotion?
MR. HAWKINS: No, because they can coexist
with respect to those particular issues, and this Court
has recognized that those two statutes can coexist.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does -- does the person who
is retaliated against, that is the person who complained
and is retaliated against, have to be the person who was
discriminated against?
MR. HAWKINS: Well, Your Honor, based on a
reading of Domino's, it would certainly appear that the
individual who is making the complaint to have
protection must be the individual who has the
contractual right, as opposed to complaining about a
third person.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, is your
position that in that situation a retaliation is not
covered by 1981?
MR. HAWKINS: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
that you could argue that it's direct discrimination.
In other words, if you're fired, whatever form the
retaliation takes, that, as Justice Ginsburg suggests,
that that would be on the basis -- basis of race. And I
thought your position, or at least your position could
be narrowed to say it's only when the individual against
whom the retaliation takes place is not the individual
complaining of the direct discrimination that your
position would be pertinent.
MR. HAWKINS: Well, Your Honor, we take the
position that in order to have a retaliation claim under
section 1981, it really has to be a discrimination
claim. You have to be able to show that you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's right.
That's why I thought the person directly discriminated
against would be able to phrase the retaliation claim
certainly as a discrimination claim.
MR. HAWKINS: Well, Your Honor, they can
make -- phrase it however they want to in terms of their
particular complaint, but the issue in terms of the
analysis under the plain text of section 1981 is whether
or not a white person in this situation is being treated
differently with respect to making a similar complaint.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Surely -- surely, you don't
mean what you just said a minute ago, that in order to
have a retaliation claim you must have a discrimination
claim.
MR. HAWKINS: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Surely it's your position
that even when you have a discrimination claim, you
don't have a retaliation claim. I thought it was your
position there are no retaliation claims under this
statute.
MR. HAWKINS: There is no retaliation claim
in the abstract under this statute, period, correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You practice in this --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you say --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- in this area --
MR. HAWKINS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Perhaps you can maybe just
tell me based on your experience: After 1981 was
amended, did 1981(b) supersede Title VII in
run-of-the-mill termination and harassment cases?
MR. HAWKINS: No, Your Honor. In my 32
years of experience of doing labor and employment law,
and particularly in employment law, individuals are not
typically bringing 1981 retaliation claims, where most
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no, not retaliation.
I mean harassment, discharge, et cetera.
MR. HAWKINS: Did we see a big spurt in
those?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. HAWKINS: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why not? There's a longer
statute of limitation. There's no cap on damages.
MR. HAWKINS: From our experience, more and
more people -- there's been a trend to go to State court
because more and more States --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then I have to
refine the hypothetical. I don't want to take too much,
but in Federal court --
MR. HAWKINS: In Federal --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- because it does seem to
me that Congress told us: We don't care if there's an
overlap between 1981 and Title VII, we don't care if
there's a longer statute of limitations, we don't care
if there's no cap an damages; we want 1981 to work. And
that's -- 1981 does apply in a large number of
employment discrimination cases.
MR. HAWKINS: In the Federal system.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And if that's true, then
why do we worry about retaliation? If Congress is not
concerned about it, why should we be?
MR. HAWKINS: Your Honor, in answer to your
question, yes, we've seen more adding on section 1981
claims with Title VII claims in Federal court. So the
answer to that question is yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Of course, it's just for
race claims, and Title VII covers sex, national origin.
MR. HAWKINS: Title VII covers race and
retaliation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: My point is that 1981
would not be available to other categories. It's only
race, right?
MR. HAWKINS: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Any other advantages to
1981? You get attorney's fees in 1981?
MR. HAWKINS: Longer statute of limitations,
similar attorney's fees, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you get that under
Title VII?
MR. HAWKINS: Yes, you do, but it's a longer
statute of limitations, and it's uncapped damages
because of the caps under Title VII that exists.
JUSTICE BREYER: What happens in just a
basic employment case? I'm trying to remember from law
school. Somebody's contract with another man, he's the
employee, and he says -- the employer says: I'm firing
you because you won't help me rob the bank. Or the
employee goes and he finds some money in a wallet or
something on the street, and he says, I'm going to
return it to the rightful owner, and the employer says,
I hate rightful owners, so I'm firing you. Now, when
the employee goes to court, I take it -- my vague
recollection is the employer can't do that.
MR. HAWKINS: Well, it's going to depend
upon the State and --
JUSTICE BREYER: The State law, is there
some kind of policy against that from the State law, he
couldn't do it?
MR. HAWKINS: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, here we have a
Federal statute that says that a black person shall have
the same right to make a contract as a white person.
But if nobody ever can report on that, that they're not,
it's not going to be the same right; it's going to be
zero right. So, why by parity of reasoning wouldn't
this provide for the same kind of thing?
MR. HAWKINS: Well, Justice Breyer, if white
individuals are also terminated for making complaints --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, no. It would make no
difference whether you're a thief in my example, whether
you're good-hearted. It doesn't matter who you are.
You could even be somebody from another country. You
don't have to be American. You could be anything. But
the State law tries to follow out that -- that policy of
not having bank robberies and of returning money to
rightful owners.
Well, here we have a Federal policy, and the
Federal policy is that black people shall be treated the
same as white in respect to making a contract. But were
the law to allow you to fire anybody who complained
about it, then black people wouldn't have that right.
And therefore the policy is that you can't do it under
this statute because otherwise the written policy is
ineffective.
I'm just remembering that from my written --
from my policy arguments that were in contract law.
MR. HAWKINS: Well, Your Honor, I would go
back to the plain, clear terms with their ordinary
meaning, and it says equal rights as white citizens and
it talks about the same and that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Does it say anywhere, by
the way, in that statute that a black person who is
discriminated against can go to court and file a
lawsuit?
MR. HAWKINS: If they have --
JUSTICE BREYER: Does it say that?
MR. HAWKINS: If they are not being treated
--
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Does it say is in
that statute, 1981?
MR. HAWKINS: Does it have the words "you
may go into court for lawsuit"?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, correct.
MR. HAWKINS: No, it does not.
JUSTICE BREYER: No. Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there a Federal common
law? Are we sitting here trying to write a Federal
common law?
MR. HAWKINS: No, we're here dealing dealing
with Federal statutes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So State courts can do
that. They can make it up; can't they?
MR. HAWKINS: State courts develop public
policy. They do.
JUSTICE BREYER: And have we developed a
policy here in creating a right of action under this
1981?
MR. HAWKINS: Rights of action have existed
under Federal statute, that's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Which is the statute that
does -- is there a statute that specifically gives you a
right to sue under 1981? Is there a statute?
MR. HAWKINS: Well, this Court has
established that, particularly with respect to section
1981, that an individual does have a right of action.
JUSTICE BREYER: It has established it.
Yes, that's my point: That the Federal court implied
from the statute a right of action.
Now, if they're implying a right of action
from the statute, why wouldn't courts also imply those
rights of action necessary to make the statute
effective?
MR. HAWKINS: Because this Court in a
variety of cases such as Russello, West Virginia,
University Hospital, Arlington Public School, has said
that we look at the text and we examine the text of the
statute, and unless it is ambiguous -- and I would
certainly submit that words like "same," "like," "equal"
are not ambiguous terms -- that we leave it alone; that
that's --
JUSTICE BREYER: That isn't the word I was
looking for. The word I was looking for in 1981(a) is
the word "and can bring a lawsuit in Federal court." I
don't see that written there.
MR. HAWKINS: It's not in there, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, correct. So we've
implied that. And therefore, if I can imply that, why
can't we imply a lawsuit on behalf of those who need the
lawsuit to make the right effective?
MR. HAWKINS: Because --
JUSTICE BREYER: That was my basic question.
MR. HAWKINS: Well, in response to it, I
would simply say that you have to look to the text as to
how you're trying to apply it, and what you're applying
it to, and this particular statute protects against
different treatment, not specifically with respect to
some other --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Hawkins, don't we have
a whole line of recent cases which say we have set our
face against implying causes of action?
MR. HAWKINS: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: A whole bunch of recent
cases saying we're not going to do that any more.
MR. HAWKINS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We used to do it, but we
said we're not going to do it any more.
MR. HAWKINS: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So why don't you invoke
those?
MR. HAWKINS: Well, I -- we -- we do invoke
those in our brief, and those are all part of what I'm
getting at in terms of -- I mean Arlington School Board
was one of those cases.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We do have those
recent cases, but we also have the Sullivan case
interpreting -- interpreting 1982, which arose under the
prior approach to these questions. And my question for
you is: Under principles of stare decisis, which body
do we follow, the earlier case interpreting 1982 under
the more freewheeling approach to statutory
interpretation or this later body of law that says we're
not going to do that any more?
MR. HAWKINS: Well, Mr. Chief Justice,
particularly since this Court has Runyon, Patterson, and
Domino's interpreting Section 1981, that's what to look
at to interpret section 1981, not Sullivan, which
interprets a different statute. They all --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's a statute that
has the same derivation. They're both from the 1866
Civil Rights Act, and they're both set up the same way.
1982 also says "same" as 1981 does. So wouldn't it be
odd to take these twin measures and say one includes
retaliation and the other doesn't?
Wouldn't Congress, when it revised 1981 in
1991 been aware of Sullivan and expect this Court to
interpret those twin statutes the same way?
MR. HAWKINS: Justice Ginsburg, with all due
respect, I would think not; and the reason is this
Court, when it acted in 1991, had in front of it to look
at Patterson, which was saying, we're going to interpret
Section 1981 in a straightforward, plain-text situation.
In fact, Patterson says in it if the right is not
specifically set forth in section 1981, there is no
relief.
Then after that, you had West Virginia,
which was decided in March of 1991, again taking that
same sort of approach with respect to if it's not in the
statute, we're not going to make it. It may be that
it's a job left for Congress. So they act on those and
pass the law in November of '91.
That's the context. And even in the Jackson
case, in looking back, Justice O'Connor ended up saying
that what we are looking back at is 1972 following 1969.
So in 1991 we're looking at Section 1981 being amended,
and we're looking at Patterson and West Virginia to give
the context.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wouldn't you look at what
Congress was trying to do in the 1991 amendments? That
is, Congress changed the law that this Court had
declared; and the message, the essential message, was
this Court has been too stingy in its interpretation of
Title -- of 1981, so we're going to change it.
MR. HAWKINS: Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it seems to me that
we wouldn't be hearing -- we wouldn't be grasping that
message.
MR. HAWKINS: But, Your Honor, in --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you agree with that?
I don't understand why you agree with that.
MR. HAWKINS: Well, I think that there was
some perspective. I don't personally agree with it, But
I think there was some --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Then don't say "yes." I
mean, it may well be that Congress thought our
interpretation of 1981 was perfectly reasonable, or it
had no idea what our interpretation of 1981 was. But
they know what they wanted to do in -- in 1991. Okay?
MR. HAWKINS: I agree, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's all we know for
sure.
MR. HAWKINS: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That Congress wanted that
disposition. They weren't necessarily disapproving our
prior decision. Is there anything in the statute which
said the Supreme Court made a bad decision, and we're
going to fix it?
MR. HAWKINS: No. There's nothing in that
at all.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There is something to
that effect in the legislative history that explains why
Congress made the amendments it did in 1991.
MR. HAWKINS: And we could have a whole
debate about the legislative history and what --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why not? Because the
legislative history does say, when they passed this,
that the new law will involve a claim, allow them to
make a claim of harassment, discharge, promotion,
transfer, retaliation, and hiring.
MR. HAWKINS: Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: So when they write that in
the House report, isn't that some evidence that they did
look back and see Sullivan, and they did think that in
1982 there's a retaliation action, and therefore in 1981
there is one? Isn't there at least evidence that there
were people in Congress thinking that?
MR. HAWKINS: Yes, that's evidence that
somebody in Congress was thinking that.
JUSTICE BREYER: And that someone --
MR. HAWKINS: But I think if we just use an
analogy with contract law, if we're negotiating a
contract --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did the committee vote on
that committee report?
MR. HAWKINS: No, they did not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So how do you know if
anybody in Congress thought that?
MR. HAWKINS: Well, somebody wrote it in a
report.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It could have been a
teenager who wrote the report.
MR. HAWKINS: It doesn't have any
significance with respect to this legislation. What I'm
saying is I think it works against -- that argument
works against what ended up being in the statute.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I think we're
familiar with that debate. But if we can look -- look
at the statute, if I ask you why isn't this an enjoyment
of a benefit, a privilege or term or a condition of the
contract, is your answer that this was an at-will
contract?
MR. HAWKINS: I think the Seventh Circuit is
saying we're not making the at-will argument in this
case, and that's not where we are going.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MR. HAWKINS: It could be made and it could
be developed.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, because I don't
think that's is a good argument. Why isn't this a
benefit or a privilege that's been denied?
MR. HAWKINS: Whether it -- it may well be a
benefit or a privilege, Your Honor, but it isn't shown
that there's different treatment than a white employee.
I mean just to say, I exercised this benefit and
something happened to me negatively, therefore, I have a
claim under section 1981, that's not where it's going.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Hawkins, is it at all
relevant on the issue that the several courts of appeals
have come out the same way both before the 1991
amendment and since the 1991 amendment, and opinions to
the contrary are pretty scarce? Does that have any
weight in a sort of a stare decisis sense?
MR. HAWKINS: No. Stare decisis applies
when it's the same facts and the same set of law And
this is not the same facts and the same set of law.
This is section 1991, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I know, but even under the
1991 the courts of appeals have been fairly uniform on
the answer to the very issue we're confronting here.
Isn't that true?
MR. HAWKINS: They have, but I would submit,
Your Honor, that they haven't been following the text of
the statute. They have just been relying on Sullivan.
JUSTICE STEVENS: My question is, are they
entitled to give any stare decisis weight to a consensus
among all the courts of appeals both before and after
the 1991 amendment.
MR. HAWKINS: I don't believe the Supreme
Court has to give stare decisis --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Don't have to, but does it
make sense in trying to understand the stability of the
law generally?
MR. HAWKINS: Based on our argument it does
not, Your Honor.
Thank you. I would like to reserve my time,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Hyndman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CYNTHIA H. HYNDMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. HYNDMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
I'd like to address the questions that
Justice Ginsburg and Justice Breyer raised about the
effectiveness of section 1981 if there is no right to
bring an action for retaliation. Section 1981 doesn't
provide any specific remedies or any type of enforcement
mechanism. It can only be enforced through a private
lawsuit. Petitioner's basically asking this Court to
allow an employer to be able to fire an employee who
brought a private lawsuit to enforce his section 1981
rights.
If the Court were to allow employers to do
that, then any employer or contracting party would have
the ability to exempt themselves from section 1981
liability. Take the example of a person who complains
that he was not promoted because of his race in
violation of section 1981. His employer fires him for
making that complaint. If he did not have protection
under section 1981 against retaliation, he would never
have the opportunity to remedy that discriminatory
promotion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a good argument to
Congress. Congress should enact a retaliatory
provision. But the statute says what it says, and what
it says is that there has to be discrimination on the
basis of race. And firing somebody for -- in
retaliation for making a complaint is not firing him on
the basis of race. Indeed, the person making the
complaint may not have been the person who was racially
discriminated against. You would acknowledge that you
couldn't fire -- if retaliations claims lie, you
couldn't fire a white whistleblower who says this
employer has been discriminating against blacks.
Wouldn't that white whistleblower have a cause of action
for being fired?
MS. HYNDMAN: They would in fact have a
cause of action, Justice Scalia. But this Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: On your theory, but that
has nothing to do with the text of the statute, which
requires discrimination on the basis of race. I agree
with you entirely that it would make sense to provide a
cause of action for retaliation, but we don't write
statutes. We read them. And there's nothing in this
statute that says that.
MS. HYNDMAN: This Court held in the Jackson
case that discrimination on the basis -- that
retaliation when there was a complaint about sex
discrimination constituted discrimination on the basis
of sex. So it follows that here under section 1981 if
someone makes a complaint about race discrimination and
they are retaliated against that they are being
discriminated against on the basis of race.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you can say that, but
it doesn't make any sense.
MS. HYNDMAN: Well, that's what the Court
held in Jackson, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It didn't make any sense
then, either.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, if we rule
in your favor, why would anyone ever bring a Title VII
action if they could bring a 1981 action?
MS. HYNDMAN: There's a lot of reasons to
bring a Title VII action, Your Honor. Title VII allows
an employee to go to the EEOC, and the EEOC has a lot of
advantages. And so you can bring both a Title VII and a
section 1981 claim.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right. So if
you bring -- you'd at least bring them both, right,
because --
MS. HYNDMAN: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- 1981 allows you
to get out of the Title VII cap on damages?
MS. HYNDMAN: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or isn't that
rendering Congress' careful -- I mean the 1991
legislation was a careful compromise. In exchange for
the expansions of Title VII, they put caps on the
damages. You would allow them to keep the expansion,
but do away with the caps.
MS. HYNDMAN: Congress said specifically
in -- in the 1991 Civil Rights Act that the damage caps
do not apply if an employee has a right under section
1981 and so --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you're just
begging the question. You're assuming you have the
right that's at issue here today.
MS. HYNDMAN: Well -- and we do have the
right that's at issue here today, because --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When were -- when there
damages, as opposed to back pay, added as a remedy for
Title VII?
MS. HYNDMAN: Title VII damages were added,
compensatory and punitive damages were added, in the
1991 Civil Rights Act.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it wasn't that it was
cut back, as the Chief suggested.
MS. HYNDMAN: That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's the first time ever
Title VII plaintiffs were entitled to get money damages
as distinguished from simply back pay?
MS. HYNDMAN: That's absolutely --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well then, why do
they put the caps in? I mean, I do think that is a
limitation on the remedy they provided. They provided a
damage remedy with a very clear cap and it's not a
particularly generous cap, either.
MS. HYNDMAN: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you would allow
them to completely obliterate that cap under any case
that could be brought under 1981.
MS. HYNDMAN: And Congress clearly made
that -- made that choice.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you say it's clear,
but neither you or the government seems to tell me any
words in this statute. Your argument is that we should
create a cause of action in order to make this
effective. I understand that argument. I think the
Court's cases stand against it, and if you want to --
but it seems to me that you're admitting that nothing in
the words of the statute as amended help you. And the
government -- which as well is an impairment, which I
think is quite wrong because that's not what section (c}
intended for. But that's almost an admission on the
government's part that it can't find any words in
section (b) either.
MS. HYNDMAN: The words in the statute that
provide the basis for this claim is that you are
entitled to the same rights to make and enforce
contracts as white citizens. And this Court has
consistently interpreted that to mean --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that was there
before -- but that was there as of the time of
Patterson.
MS. HYNDMAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So then Congress did
nothing by the amendment to help your case.
MS. HYNDMAN: What the Court did to help our
case was that after Patterson was decided and before the
section -- before the Civil Rights Act of 1991 was
passed, the lower courts had interpreted Patterson to
restrict retaliation claims because they generally
involve post formation conduct. And what Congress made
clear in the -- in the Civil Rights Act of 1991 is that
they wanted to have protection throughout the entire
contractual relationship.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Patterson was not a
retaliation case.
MS. HYNDMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Patterson was a discharge
and harassment case.
MS. HYNDMAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And the words do seem to
cover that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: No. But your point is
that Patterson made a number of lower courts think that
retaliation was no longer a viable cause of action.
MS. HYNDMAN: That's absolutely right,
Justice --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Before Patterson they had
all thought retaliation was a cause of action.
MS. HYNDMAN: They consistently thought
there was a cause of action for retaliation based upon
Sullivan.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But nothing that you
argued so far shows that the words of the statute as
amended, that is to say new subsection (b), help your
case.
MS. HYNDMAN: The words of the statute that
help us establish the cause of action are that it
made -- that Congress made clear that the entire
contractual relationship would be covered from the
beginning of the contractual relationship through the
end, through termination. And coupling that with the
original words of the statute that lower courts had
interpreted to allow a cause of action for retaliation
and with subsection (c), which uses broader language, it
says "impairment by discrimination" -- under this
Court's holding in Jackson --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I do not read subsection
(c) as giving substantive rights. I mean, you can argue
about that. I think you have to talk about (b), and I
think you have a valid point when they say that they're
extending the protection for the life of the contract.
But I still want to know what particular words in
section (b) you rely on? "Benefit"? "Privilege"?
MS. HYNDMAN: Any of those could apply,
Justice Kennedy. But the -- what Congress was
legislating against was this Court's restriction in
Patterson and saying that the rights that are protected
are only those rights at the making of the contract and
the enforcement of the contract. And they expanded the
language to cover the entire contractual relationship.
So that, for example, here where you have a termination
caused by retaliation, then you would have a cause of
action for retaliation under the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess those court of
appeals cases pre-1991 that found there was a
retaliation claim, right, those cases were just wrong as
to whether there was any post-contract claim? Right? I
mean, they were wrong about that. Patterson, in effect,
said you're wrong.
MS. HYNDMAN: Patterson said you were wrong.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So if they were wrong about
whether there's a post-contract claim, why wouldn't they
be wrong about whether there's a retaliation claim?
MS. HYNDMAN: There were --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know why we should
give deference to them on the one point when they've
been proven wrong on the other one.
MS. HYNDMAN: They based that on -- on this
Court's reading in Sullivan. And Sullivan interpreted
the companion statute to section 1981, which was section
1982.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because it's ironic to say
all those cases were wrong when Congress agreed with
them and disagreed with Patterson.
JUSTICE BREYER: But is the rationale of
those cases -- and it's important to get the right
rationale. If I say this and I'm wrong tell me I'm
wrong. And I thought that the heart of it is not that
the retaliated -- the act of retaliation is
discrimination. It isn't. What they say is when the
white man helps the black man from being discriminated
against, it falls within the statute, not because you've
discriminated against the black man, but because if it
didn't fall within the statute it would seriously erode
or destroy the black man's right. That's what it seemed
to me Douglas said in Sullivan.
MS. HYNDMAN: That's correct, Justice
Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: And so then we're looking
very hard in a place for a word that couldn't be there.
MS. HYNDMAN: I would agree with that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that was true in
Sullivan because a property owner who wants to sell is
in a particularly advantageous position to enforce the
rights of the buyer. It's part of his own contract.
And to extend it to the situation we have here is quite
an extension of Sullivan in my view.
MS. HYNDMAN: Well, I would disagree with
that respectfully, Justice Kennedy. I would say here,
when you have the person who was the victim of the
discrimination, who was also, who was complaining about
the discrimination and then gets fired, he's in actually
a better position than the white homeowner was in
Sullivan.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When you agreed with
Justice Breyer that we're looking for a word that
couldn't be there, you said yes, but it is in fact a
word that is there in about 37 other statutes, right?
MS. HYNDMAN: Those statutes --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The word could be
there. I'm not saying whether it has to be there or
not. But it certainly could be there, and it's not
here.
MS. HYNDMAN: The word "retaliation."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MS. HYNDMAN: -- does not appear in -- in
those. There's actually very few Federal statutes where
the actual word "retaliation" appears. But the other
statutes that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But they provide a
specific cause of action for retaliation, correct?
MS. HYNDMAN: They do, but there is no
specific cause of action provided in section 1981 at
all. And this Court has already held that there is a
private cause of action under section 1981, and what
we're asking --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is this -- the
question I asked your friend and I'll ask you as well.
I think you have a case under Sullivan, which
recognized, although it's 1982, this type of action.
But Sullivan would not come out the same way today given
Alexander against Sandoval and our new approach to
statutory interpretation. So if you're concerned about
stare decisis, which body of law do you give effect to,
the Sullivan case or our more recent cases on how to
read statutes?
MS. HYNDMAN: I think you give effect to
Sullivan in this situation, and the reason is because at
the time that Congress was legislating and amending
section 1981, and it was acting against the backdrop of
this Court's jurisprudence, it had Patterson in front of
it, it had -- it knew that Sullivan was still good law.
It knew that this Court had repeatedly directed that
section 1981 and section 1982 be construed similarly;
and Patterson did not address the specific situation
that was in Sullivan, that is whether you could bring a
cause of action for retaliation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, by 1991
our new approach to reading statutes was pretty clearly
established.
MS. HYNDMAN: That's correct. But --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if Congress were
looking at both of those bodies of law, then wouldn't
the normal care be for it to put in a retaliation
provision?
MS. HYNDMAN: If they were legislating on a
clean slate I might agree with that Justice -- Chief
Justice Roberts. But in this situation they were not
legislating on a clean slate. What they were doing was
amended one of the oldest civil rights acts in this
country, the Civil Rights Act of 1866. And given that
they were going to amend that law and they amended it
based upon what this Court had said in Patterson, and I
think under those circumstances it -- they wouldn't
necessarily go and create and write a reticulated
statute such as the modern antidiscrimination statutes
are.
JUSTICE ALITO: You're saying they would
have -- you're saying they would have added an express
retaliation provision in 1981 in 1991 if they had
thought that the mode of reasoning in Sullivan was no
longer sound? Is that what this comes down to?
MS. HYNDMAN: I don't know that that's
necessarily true. I think they -- they legislated
against the backdrop both of Sullivan and the lower
courts' consistent recognition of a cause of action.
JUSTICE ALITO: When you say they legislated
against the backdrop, you're -- are you not relying on
something they didn't do, rather than anything that they
did?
MS. HYNDMAN: I wouldn't necessarily agree
with that, Justice Alito. I would --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The interpretation was
consistent with this -- was it 2005, long after those
other new approach statutes, decisions were on the
books. Jackson was in 2005.
MS. HYNDMAN: That's correct, Justice
Ginsburg; and at that time this Court said that you look
to the language of the statute, and there in Title IX
the language was broad. It was a general ban on
discrimination, such as we have in section 1981 and
section 1982, and in fact the Jackson court relied on
Sullivan and relied on this Court's interpretation of
Sullivan to find that there was a cause of action for
retaliation under Title IX.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What I'm -- what I'm
taking away from the argument is that if I were to write
this opinion in your favor, I would have to say that
it's necessary to imply a cause of action prohibiting
retaliation in order to make these other words
effective. And that seems to me a very limited argument
and a very difficult argument for you to prevail upon,
given the authorities and the approach of the Court that
we've discussed.
MS. HYNDMAN: Well, the Court has already
implied a cause of action and the question is whether --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I understand that, and --
and there certainly is a cause of action as to all the
terms in the contract, but you want to add -- for me to
add a new term. You can't use the existing terms to say
that there is a cause of action other -- that helps your
client, other than that there is a general approach that
there is protection post-contract formation. I would
have to agree with that; and I don't think you can get
out of it impairment.
MS. HYNDMAN: Well, the language in this
statute that guarantees the same rights to make and
enforce contracts by citizens provides that basis, based
on this Court's decision in Jackson.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now you're making
enforcement, as with Patterson.
MS. HYNDMAN: I'm sorry. I didn't hear --
I'm sorry, I didn't hear you, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now you're just talking
about make or enforce and that brings us right back to
where we started.
MS. HYNDMAN: But -- subsection (b) defines
make and enforce more broadly. And that was the purpose
of the language in section 1981(d), that was to make
clear that the terms make and enforce contracts cover
the entire contractual relationship, from the beginning
of the relationship to the end of it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To the extent your
argument relies so heavily on Sullivan, I went back and
read it, and rather than an implied right of action case
it looked to me like a third party standing case.
MS. HYNDMAN: And I know there is some
disagreement about that, but the Court in Jackson found
that -- it did find that Sullivan did stand for the
proposition that there was a cause of action for
retaliation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I think --
that's right. Now I get back to another stare decisis
question. Do I rely on what Sullivan actually said, or
I do I rely on Jackson's reinterpretation of Sullivan?
MS. HYNDMAN: Well, if you look at what
Sullivan actually said, Chief Justice Roberts, I think
you would find that you could read it more expansively
that just a third party standing case. In that case the
white lessor, Mr. Sullivan, had been expelled from the
corporation after he advocated the rights of his black
lessee, Mr. Freeman; and he was allowed under -- the
Court allowed him to bring his action to recover damages
and get injunctive relief, because he himself was
expelled from that corporation. So he was the person
that had an had injury in that circumstance. So I think
that it's not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You agree, though,
that the language in the opinion focuses on it as a
third party standing question.
MS. HYNDMAN: The -- the Court says that
Mr. Sullivan does have standing to bring the action. I
do agree with that, but if you read the entire opinion,
you would see that they also say that Mr. Sullivan had
the right to bring his action for damages and injunctive
relief.
Just to sum up, because this Court in
Sullivan and Jackson has recognized that persons who
themselves were not victims of discrimination must be
protected against retaliation when they advocate the
rights of those victims; otherwise the underlying
discrimination would go unchecked -- we are not asking
the Court to do anything here that they haven't already
done. We are just asking that the victim of the
discrimination here, Mr. Humphries, have the same
protection against retaliation that this Court has
already recognized that his advocate would have. Thank
you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
General Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
This Court has already inferred a private
cause of action under section 1981. So the question
before the Court now is simply the scope of the basic
guarantee in section 1981 and particularly whether it
prohibits retaliation against someone who exercised
their undoubted right to complain about racial
discrimination in a contractual process.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a little more
complicated than that. We inferred that cause of action
in the bad old days, when we were inferring causes of
action all over the place.
Now, the position the Government takes here
is that we should infer this new cause of action to
assist the one that's already on the books. Is the
Government going to be consistent in this position? And
you want us to in the future go back to our prior
practice of readily inferring causes of action that are
not set forth in the -- in the text of this statute?
Is the Government willing to live with that?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, Justice Scalia, we're
not asking to you to go back to the bad old days. But I
think it's important to recognize that we are simply
asking you to interpret the scope of the cause of action
you've already inferred. And I think that's consistent
with the way this Court has approached 1981 cases.
Patterson would be a great example. This Court in
Patterson didn't say, are we going to infer a new cause
of action for harassment? No. This Court interpreted
the basic prohibition of 1981 and said it didn't cover
harassment. We think if you interpret the basic
prohibitions in 1981, it covers retaliation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Patterson was still the bad
old days. When do you think the bad old days ended?
(Laughter.)
GENERAL CLEMENT: Patterson was 1989. I
don't think anybody thinks Patterson was the bad old
days.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I'm sorry. I was
thinking of Sullivan.
GENERAL CLEMENT: The bad old days ended
when you got on the Court, Mr. Justice Scalia.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL CLEMENT: Now, I think the
considerations of precedent as well speak very loudly
here. And Justice Alito asked the question, what would
cause the Court to interpret 1981 and 1982 differently?
And the answer is absolutely nothing. These are two --
these aren't just two closely related statutes that were
codified together.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you asking us to
infer, to find implied in the words a cause of action
against retaliation?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No. We're asking to you
interpret the cause of action that exists --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What words --
GENERAL CLEMENT: -- to include
retaliation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What words in the statute?
And not "impairment" because I don't agree with the
government on that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Okay, Justice Kennedy. I
think part of the disconnect may be, if I could try to
address this, is there are two reasons you might think
that retaliation isn't covered. One reason you might
think retaliation isn't covered is because it's not
discrimination on the basis of race. The other reason
that you might think retaliation is not covered and the
reason that the court of appeals, post-Patterson,
pre-1991, thought that retaliation wasn't covered was
simply that it was post-formation conduct. And as to
that, what is clear is that 1981(b) provides a textual
answer to that. A --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: A third reason is that the
word isn't in the statute.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well -- but neither is the
word "harassment," Justice Kennedy. Neither, frankly,
is the words "discrimination on the basis of race."
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's a benefit,
privilege, and term of the contract --
GENERAL CLEMENT: Is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- to me fairly obvious to
me to include harassment. That was the situation in
Patterson. That's what Congress sought to address.
Retaliation is something quite different.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Sure, but I don't think
there's any doubt since Mr. Humphries was fired that he
no longer enjoys the benefits and privileges of his
contractual relationship. They were clearly interfered
with. His rights under 1981 are clearly implicated. It
would seem to me the only argument that he's not covered
is that he was retaliated -- he was fired, he lost his
contractual relationships not because he was
African-American --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then why were you --
GENERAL CLEMENT: -- but he claimed -- -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- talking about
impairment in your brief?
GENERAL CLEMENT: We were making a slightly
different point, Justice Kennedy, which is we think this
case is a fortiori from the Jackson case in a couple of
respects. First and foremost, we think that a 1982
precedent, if it governs Title IX, ought to a fortiorari
govern 1981.
But the second way we think this case is a
fortiori from Jackson is that the same textual obstacles
are not present here that the Jackson -- that the
Jackson dissenters identified. You know, the Jackson
dissenters didn't say that retaliation isn't a form of
discrimination. They said it's not discrimination on
the basis of sex. And if you look at the text of
1981(a), (b), and (c), you find that it's actually more
capacious language, and you don't have the same problem.
It doesn't say "discrimination on the basis of race."
Now, to be sure, we're not saying that 1981
isn't a race statute; of course it is. But those exact
words don't appear and don't provide a stumbling block.
And if you look at the form that 1981 takes, it doesn't
take the form of an express prohibition of
discrimination on the basis of race; it actually
textually takes the form of a guarantee of equal
treatment. And it seems to me that a guarantee of equal
treatment quite naturally is violated not just by the
basic discrimination but is also violated by retaliating
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, if you have --
GENERAL CLEMENT: -- against someone for
exercising their rights.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you have an
employer who fires everybody who complains about
practices at work, that would not be covered
retaliation?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, you're
right. Judge Easterbrook's hypothetical of the equal
opportunity retaliator I think as a theoretical matter
would not be covered by this statute. But of course I
think it's only an interesting theoretical possibility,
because I rather doubt that employer would have many
employees in practice. I mean, in practice --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think it's
unusual for employers to have a practice that anybody
who alleges that I've committed a violation of Federal
law, I want to get rid of them?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I -- I actually do
think that's unusual, and I do think if an employer -- I
mean, just in looking at the cases that are actually
decided, you don't see that as the nondiscriminatory
defense that many employers resort to. And I think as a
practical matter that's just not the position that
they're taking. And I think as a practical matter
you're going to see that those are covered by the
statute.
You -- Mr. Chief Justice, you also asked
about stare decisis and which cases that this Court
should point to. I think there are a couple reasons why
Sullivan is the precedent that this Court should follow
in this case. First of all, this Court followed it in a
less analogous context just a few terms ago in Jackson.
Second, this Court has a whole line of
cases, including Tillman and Runyon, that treat 1982
cases as binding authority for section 1981 purposes.
So if this Court were to turn its back on Sullivan, I
think it would also be turning its back on cases like --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't have any
doubt that Sullivan would come out differently today
under our current analysis?
GENERAL CLEMENT: It -- I mean, it's hard to
say. I mean, you know, Jackson was just three terms
ago, Mr. Chief Justice, so -- and I don't know how
Jackson would have been decided without the benefit of
Sullivan. I certainly think that the current Court
would be a tougher Court to make the arguments that
carried the day in Sullivan than the Court at the time,
but --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It would be a tougher Court
to make the argument on inferring a cause of action,
period. But I don't know whether it would be a tougher
Court to make the argument that, if there is a cause of
action, it's got to include this, which was your point a
moment ago.
GENERAL CLEMENT: And I think that's a very
fair point, Justice Souter. And I guess I would say
that, just to amplify something my co-counsel said, I
really do think -- I mean, the Jackson Court took the --
the Sullivan case to be something other than a
third-party standing case and to be a case about
retaliation. I really think that that is the correct
reading of the opinion. If you look at the critical
paragraph on page --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The correct reading
of Jackson or of Sullivan?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Of both, but more to the
point, of Sullivan. If you go to page 237 of the
Sullivan opinion, after the Court's disposed of
Freeman's claim the whole discussion of Sullivan's claim
is prefaced with the observation "we turn now to
Sullivan's claim for" expulsion -- "for advocacy on
Freeman's behalf."
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, of course, and you
in your brief bracketed that and just made that
equivalent to retaliation. I don't think it is because
he was arguing that he didn't -- he was himself injured
because he couldn't sell his own property. He has an
interest in his own property. And that just isn't true
in the standard retaliation case of the type we're
discussing.
GENERAL CLEMENT: But, Justice Kennedy, if
that were the only claim that Sullivan could bring,
i.e., if he could only bring the second half of the
leasehold claim that Freeman had, I would agree with
your reading of Sullivan. But what the Court is focused
on is not Sullivan's ability to sue for his inability to
sell to Freeman. They allow him to sue because he was
expelled from the property owner's association after the
fact. Now, why was he expelled from the property
owner's association? Not because of his race; but
because he had advocated on Freeman's behalf. The point
about Sullivan getting to sue for his expulsion from --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But a seller is -- or a
would-be seller is always a built-in advocate for a
buyer if some third person interferes with the contract.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I agree with that, but I
think what's critical is that he was allowed to recover
not just for that injury but for his expulsion from the
property owner's association. And that's not an injury
that was an obvious injury to Freeman at all. But more
to the point, it doesn't really matter if Freeman and
Sullivan can sue for that or just Sullivan. The point
is somebody could sue for Sullivan's expulsion from the
property owner's association. And I don't understand
how that's anything other than a retaliation holding.
And as I said, this Court on a number of occasions has
given 1982 holdings even stare decisis effect, using
those words in Runyon in the 1981 context. And so I
think that's also something that this Court would have
to confront.
JUSTICE ALITO: If we thought --
GENERAL CLEMENT: When --
JUSTICE ALITO: If we thought Sullivan was
incorrectly decided, what should we do? Should we say
we accept it insofar as it interpreted section 1982, but
we don't necessarily have to extend it to 1981, to take
an approach similar to what we did in the recent John R.
Sand & Gravel case? Or do we have to apply the
reasoning in the 1981 case because of the close
relationship between the two provisions?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think you have to apply
its reasoning. That would be consistent with decisions
like Runyon and Tillman that say that you apply 1982
cases and 1981.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Hawkins, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL W. HAWKINS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. HAWKINS: Respondent and the government
and its amicus arguments are more appropriate on the
floor of Congress debating whether or not to amend
section 1981 to include retaliation.
Instead of giving the clear and plain
meaning of the terms and the ordinary and natural
definitions, the Seventh Circuit relied on extrinsic
issues to reach its decision in violation of Article 1
Section 1 of the Constitution. It exercised its will
instead of its judgment in violation of the principles
set forth in Jones versus Bock, where this Court had
said the judge's job is to construe the statute, not to
make it better.
George Washington said in 1790 "I've always
been persuaded that the success of our nation and our
government depends upon the acceptance its people and
that that would depend upon the interpretation and
execution of its laws. Therefore, it is important that
the judicial system should not only be independent in
its operation but as perfect as possible in its
formation." To follow the text of the statute, this
Court's interpretations of section 1981 and the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: This is no longer
Washington, right?
MR. HAWKINS: I understand, Your Honor.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. I didn't know where
he stopped and you began.
(Laughter.)
MR. HAWKINS: The Seventh Circuit's decision
should be reversed. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:20 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
31:16 40:9 amazed 6:1 approach 21:9 authority 51:11
28:6 addition 10:7 19:19,21 38:22 39:14 aware 22:2
56:16 39:10 47:14 amended 4:6,9 42:2 54:18 56:15
46:23
admission 32:21 39:25 40:2 8:14 55:8 35:4,8 42:17
37:9 6:10,12,14,16 argued 34:13 22:19,20 24:19
15:16 30:13 33:9 argument 1:12 42:15,24 43:8
10:10 advocacy 52:22 22:25 24:8 10:25 25:15,24 51:13
22:16 advocate 44:10 American 17:5 26:5 27:14,20 backdrop 39:5
33:12 44:17 53:20 amicus 1:21 2:8 28:19 32:13,15 40:15,18
36:19 advocated 43:16 44:23 55:8 41:12,16,17 bad 24:2 45:11
53:17 amplify 52:8 42:24 44:21 45:22 46:8,9
9:7 52:5 51:16 17:18 51:22 based 3:10 8:23
18:23,25 agree 23:10,11 answer 15:4,7 55:8 9:19 11:18
23:13,20 29:12 25:21 26:25 Arlington 19:17 13:20 27:14
24:20 37:6 39:22 46:23 47:23 21:4 34:10 36:8
29:6,9,14 40:21 42:4 antidiscrimin... arose 21:8 40:3 42:8
43:23 44:3 10:11 40:6 Article 55:14 basic 16:1 20:8
34:4,8 47:10 53:10,22 anybody 17:12 asked 38:18 45:4 46:5,6
agreed 36:13 25:8 46:12 46:21 51:3 49:24
38:11,13 37:20 50:16 asking 28:5 basically 28:5
39:12 Alexander appeals 26:14 38:16 44:12,14 basis 8:5 12:7,7
41:9,14 38:22 26:24 27:7 45:22,24 47:1 28:23,25 29:12
42:1 Alito 4:2,5,10,22 35:20 47:19 47:4 29:18,20,24
43:5,18 40:8,17,22 appear 11:19 aspects 6:24 32:25 42:8
45:3,10 46:21 54:12,14 38:6 49:17 assist 45:15 47:17 48:3
alleges 50:17 APPEARAN... association 49:11,14,20
47:2,5 allow 17:12 1:14 53:14,16,25 began 56:9
24:13 28:6,9 appears 38:8 54:5 begging 31:8
allowed 43:17 apply 14:23 attorney's 15:17 behalf 1:15,17
52:23 broader 34:24 categories 15:13 25:23 55:13 close 54:20
55:6 broadly 42:18 cause 3:16 7:20 Circuit's 56:11 closely 46:24
32:8 32:14 34:4,8 43:21 coexist 11:11,13
35:8 bunch 20:19 35:17 38:11,13 40:4 come 4:18,19
51:20 Burlington 3:15 38:15 39:12 cited 5:13 9:16 5:21,24 6:6
53:21 43:5 45:3,10 17:21 33:2 comes 40:12
17:10,13 34:24 35:3 caused 35:17 33:16 39:25 25:5
36:21,23 49:12 causes 20:17 40:1 common 18:13
43:16 call 9:18 45:11,18 claim 10:17 18:15
39:19 cetera 14:4 52:22 53:8,10 complained
carried 51:23 6:15,19 8:7 claims 13:10 complaining
16:1 21:7,11 23:1 clarify 5:18 complains 10:1
18:3,6 22:19 25:25 Chicago 1:17 clean 39:22,24 28:12 50:5
29:18 32:7 Chief 3:3,8 5:12 clear 17:20 32:3 complaint 11:20
20:3 33:9,11,20,23 11:24 12:3,17 32:11 33:16 12:23 13:1
24:11,16 34:15 38:19,25 21:6,15 27:17 34:18 42:20 28:15,24 29:1
25:17 42:25 43:1,14 27:18,22 30:7 47:22 55:11 29:19,22
27:25 43:14 49:1,1,5 30:15,19,22 clearly 10:16 complaints
37:3,4 51:7 52:10,11 31:7,19,25 32:9 39:14 16:25
52:11 53:5 32:6 37:20,25 48:14,15 completely 32:7
52:25 56:15 39:13,17,22 2:7 44:20,21 10:23
14:24 19:16 43:23 44:19,25 46:11,16,19 45:10
39:11 20:16,20 21:5 50:1,4,8,15 47:4,7,12 48:1 compromise
44:2,5 21:7 32:16 51:3,14,19 48:6,11,21,24 30:24
35:20,21 36:13 52:15 55:2 50:2,8,19 concerned 15:3
34:19,20 35:15 54:7,10 55:17 dealing 6:7,23 46:22 51:15
5:25 48:14,18 19:12 26:14,24 18:16 direct 12:4,11
8:11 contrary 26:17 27:7 33:13 debate 24:10 directed 39:8
15:2 corporation 34:3,22 40:16 25:18 directly 9:19
43:16,20 Court's 3:11,14 debating 55:9 12:18
correct 7:6 8:8 4:7 32:16 35:1 decided 22:13 disagree 37:13
13:13 15:15 35:11 36:9 33:11 50:22 disagreed 36:14
28:20,20 16:16 18:10 39:6 41:8 42:9 51:20 54:15 disagreement
31:3 19:1 20:3,24 52:19 56:3 decision 3:14 43:3
33:8,15 23:5 30:18,21 cover 10:14,16 24:1,2 42:9 disapproving
35:10 32:5 33:7,21 34:1 35:15 55:14 56:11 23:25
39:4,17 33:24 37:2 42:20 46:5 decisions 40:25 discharge 14:4
55:9 38:11 39:16 covered 7:5 12:1 54:23 24:14 33:22
56:13 covers 15:9,10 43:8 51:4 54:8 11:17 12:18
45:16,25 40:1 co-counsel 52:8 defense 50:23 36:21,23
couple 49:1 51:5 create 32:14 deference 36:6 discriminating
34:9 course 15:8 creating 18:23 definitions discrimination
50:11 52:24 53:23 demoted 10:1 9:12,25 10:6
3:17 5:13,17 44:23 11:10 13:4,8 14:24
22:18,23 19:5,9,15,25 2:5 27:20 depend 16:11 44:9,12,15
54:9 21:16 22:2,6 55:23 45:8 47:17
16:2 27:10,23 28:5 D 1:19 2:7 3:1 derivation 21:21 49:14,20,24
17:11,18 28:9 29:9,17 44:21 designed 5:4 discriminatory
30:2 33:2,10 damage 31:4 destroy 36:25 7:17 28:17
35:19 38:14 32:3 develop 18:20 discussed 41:19
41:24 39:8 40:3 41:3 damages 14:10 developed 18:22 discussing 53:6
53:21 41:7,18,20 14:22 15:23 26:3 discussion 52:20
44:13,16 45:1 31:15,16,22 11:7 17:2 disposed 52:19
5:19 33:2 46:17,22 47:19 day 51:23 21:19 26:9 23:25
51:4,6,7,9,12 days 45:11,22 48:10,25 dissenters 49:8
50:16,23 exchange 30:24 favor 30:8 41:13 forth 22:10
13:24,25 14:24 execution 55:24 Federal 10:21 fortiorari 49:3
enact 28:20 exercised 26:10 15:6 16:18 found 35:20
25:16 46:9,16 exercising 50:3 18:14,17 19:1 frankly 48:2
21:17 28:7 33:1 37:9 existed 18:25 50:17 Freeman 43:17
51:15 enforced 28:4 exists 8:22 10:12 fees 15:17,19 54:2
enjoys 48:13 expelled 43:15 29:3,4
34:18 35:15 experience 29:7 37:17 G 1:6 3:1
entirely 29:13 explains 24:7 fires 28:14 50:5 44:21
equal 3:21 10:10 expulsion 52:22 first 31:21 49:2 44:20,25 45:21
39:2 49:21,22 50:9 extend 37:11 fix 24:3 47:4,7,12 48:1
equivalent 53:1 54:17 floor 55:9 48:6,11,21,24
20:6 36:24 extension 37:12 focused 8:24 51:17 52:6,17
41:16 ESQ 1:15,17,19 extent 42:23 53:11 53:7,22 54:13
essential 23:2 follow 17:6 generally 27:13
established 6:25 face 20:17 56:2 generous 32:4
26:9 28:6 et 14:4 29:8 37:22 following 22:20 getting 21:4
31:5 everybody 50:5 41:7 53:15 27:3 53:18
16:3,7,10 exact 49:16 fairly 26:24 48:7 form 10:6 12:5 10:9,24 11:7
examine 19:18 fall 36:24 49:9,18,19,21 12:6 13:16
50:5,13 example 17:2 falls 36:22 formation 8:4 15:8,12 21:20
28:12 35:16 familiar 25:18 33:15 42:3 22:4,24 23:6
happened 26:11 help 10:19 16:4 14:15 50:9 inferred 45:2,10
41:3 happens 7:1 32:18 33:9,10 45:25
36:6 harassing 9:3 helps 36:21 42:1 idea 23:18 45:18 52:1
39:2 harassment hiring 24:15 identical 3:23,25 initial 6:24
54:8 8:25 9:2 13:22 24:12 Ill 1:17 44:5
48:2,8 holdings 54:8 impairment 53:24,25 54:1
17:19,25 hate 16:8 37:18 42:5 47:10 intended 6:18
30:12 Hawkins 1:15 Honor 4:13,25 48:23 32:21
44:12 2:3,11 3:5,6,8 5:5,16,24 6:6 implicated interest 53:4
52:18 4:5,12,25 5:5,8 7:9 8:8 9:13 48:15 interesting
7:9,12,15,23 13:18,23 14:8 42:25 47:2 interferes 53:21
21:14 8:7,17 9:2,13 15:4 17:19 imply 19:12 interpret 21:18
23:4 10:3,13,20 20:2,21,24 20:4,5 41:14 22:3,7 45:24
25:25 11:5,11,18 23:9 26:8,22 implying 19:11 46:6,22 47:5
40:2 12:2,13,21 27:3,15 30:3 20:17 interpretation
46:3 13:6,12,18,23 30:11 33:21 important 36:16 3:11 21:13
14:5,8,11,17 56:6 45:23 55:24 23:3,17,18
39:7 15:15,18,22 19:17 include 7:24,25 41:8 55:23
17:19 18:2,4,8 Humphries 1:6 55:10 56:3
45:13 20:9,15,18,21 Hyndman 1:17 6:21 8:13 9:1 36:9 46:4
47:11 20:24 21:2,15 2:5 27:19,20 includes 8:3 54:16
22:4 23:5,9,12 27:22 29:8,17 21:24 interpreting
24:9,16,23 31:3,10,15,20 incorrectly interprets 21:19
42:13 37:2,6,13,24 11:21 12:9,10 issue 4:1,13,17
47:12,24 48:2 30:24 36:21,23
30:3 28:19 29:9,10 53:7,19 lessee 43:17 matter 1:11 17:3
41:1,7 29:25 30:4,7 kind 9:24,24 lessor 43:15 50:10,24,25
43:3 44:8 30:15,19,22 16:14,23 liability 28:12 54:2 56:16
31:7,12,18,21 knew 39:7,8 lie 29:3 mean 5:20 10:3
31:25 32:6,11 know 23:19,21 life 4:8,9 35:6 10:12,25 13:3
33:4,8,19,22 25:7 26:23 limitation 14:10 14:4 21:4
41:2,11,22 41:4,5 42:6,19 14:21 15:18,22 measures 21:24
4:2,5,10,22 43:7,12,23 large 14:23 48:13 56:4 message 23:2,2
44:19,25 45:9 late 11:3 look 19:18 20:10 23:8
6:2,9,11 45:21 46:8,14 Laughter 30:6 21:17 22:6,24 MICHAEL 1:15
7:2,3,7 46:17,21 47:1 46:10,18 56:7 24:19 25:18,18 2:3,11 3:6 55:5
8:2 47:6,9,12,24 56:10 41:3 43:11 minute 13:3
9:3,9 48:2,4,7,20,22 law 5:7,18 10:14 49:11,18 52:13 minutes 55:3
10:9,18 48:25 50:1,4,8 13:24,25 16:1 looked 43:1 mode 40:11
11:7,14 50:15 51:3,14 16:13,14 17:6 looking 19:24,24 modern 40:6
12:3,6 51:19,25 52:7 17:12,18 18:14 22:19,20,21,22 moment 52:5
13:2,7 52:15,24 53:7 18:15 21:13 37:4,21 39:18 money 16:5 17:7
53:19 54:12,14 22:17 23:1 50:21 31:22
14:3,7,9 55:2 56:4,8,13 24:13 25:2 lost 48:17 morning 3:4
15:1 26:20,21 27:13 lot 4:7 10:11 move 4:1
K 38:24 39:7,18 30:10,12
16:13,17 keep 31:1 40:2 50:18 loudly 46:20 N
17:1,23 Kennedy 5:20 laws 10:11 55:24 lower 33:13 34:3 N 2:1,1 3:1
5:25 7:21 8:15 lawsuit 18:1,9 34:22 40:15 narrow 4:24
8:25 9:3 13:15 19:25 20:5,6 narrowed 4:11
20:3 13:17,19 14:3 28:5,7 M 12:9
14:7,9,14,18 leasehold 53:10 making 3:24 nation 55:21
21:6,15 15:1 32:11 leave 19:21 6:24 11:20 national 15:9
22:4,19 33:4,8,19,22 left 22:16 13:1 16:25 natural 55:12
23:6,10 33:25 34:12 legislated 40:14 17:11 25:24 naturally 49:23
35:2,10 36:12 40:17 28:15,24,25 nature 7:2
37:7,14 41:11 legislating 35:11 35:13 42:10 necessarily
40:5,14 43:24 44:3 pass 22:17 phrase 12:19,22 49:3 51:6
54:17 52:13,19 passed 4:14 pick 5:1 precise 6:7
opportunity Patterson 3:12 place 8:9 12:10 present 49:7
27:20 44:21 22:7,9,22 33:6 plaintiffs 31:22 47:20
34:14 ordinary 3:22 35:23,25 36:14 45:1 prior 21:9 24:1
39:14 17:20 55:12 39:6,10 40:3 point 8:3 15:12 45:17
41:25 origin 15:9 42:11 46:2,3,8 19:9 34:2 35:5 private 28:4,7
46:3 original 34:22 46:11,12 48:9 36:6 48:25 38:15 45:2
outcome 6:19 44:21 53:17 54:2,3 26:6,8 35:8
overlapping 31:13,23 17:6,9,10,14 privileges 48:13
overrule 5:4,6,7 14:12 17:10,13 18:23 problem 49:13
owners 16:8 perfect 56:1 12:8,8,12,14 10:20
54:7 owner's 53:14 period 13:13 37:18 45:13,16 prohibited 8:4
54:5 52:2 50:24 8:16
page 2:2 52:14 28:12,25 29:1 35:22 36:2 prohibitions
52:14 personally 5:2,19 6:5,23 promoted 28:13
23:19 11:12 12:23 23:13 practical 50:24 53:3,4,14,15
56:8 20:12 35:7 persuaded 50:25 53:25 54:5
13:25 19:6 pertinent 12:12 45:18 50:14,14 protected 10:6
29:13 rationale 36:15 relied 41:7,8 11:16 29:23 16:22 17:13
38:10 36:17 55:13 36:19 48:17 18:23 19:4,7
reach 55:14 relief 22:11 retaliating 19:10,11 20:6
39:1 42:25 relies 42:24 retaliation 3:14 26:1,4 28:1
readily 45:18 43:10 4:17 6:10,12 31:9,11,20
40:10 36:9 39:14 40:18 8:10,13,22 36:16,25 37:23
really 8:23 remedies 28:3 10:7,17,17 44:5 45:7 50:9
54:2 31:13 32:2,3 12:14,19 13:4 rightful 16:7,8
42:18 reasonable removing 10:15 28:2,16,24 19:13 21:22
40:11 54:20,23 report 16:20 34:10,23 35:17 35:3,12,13
20:8 2:10 55:5 10:23 40:10 41:10,15 48:15 50:3
27:5 31:8 recognition 3:13 requires 29:12 43:6 44:10,16 rob 16:4
41:21 40:16 reserve 27:16 45:6 46:7 47:3 robberies 17:7
45:3 recognize 45:23 resort 50:23 47:8,15,16,18 Roberts 3:3
recognized respect 4:12,25 47:20 48:10 11:24 12:3,17
44:8,17 8:1,9 11:12 52:12 53:1,5 30:7,15,19,22
48:10 16:10 19:6 20:13 retaliations 29:3 37:20,25 38:5
recover 43:18 22:5,14 25:14 retaliator 50:10 38:10,17 39:13
respectfully retaliatory 39:17,23 42:23
12:7 15:9 43:10 1:18,22 2:6,9 returning 17:7 52:15 55:2
28:13 related 46:24 10:6 27:21 reversed 56:12 56:13
29:12 relationship 44:24 55:7 review 3:17 rule 6:1 30:7
47:17 7:16 33:18 Respondent's revised 22:1 run 8:12
49:14,16 34:19,20 35:15 9:15 rid 50:18 Runyon 3:12
53:16 42:21,22 48:14 response 20:9 right 3:19,19 21:16 51:10
26:12,22 28:1 37:11 39:3,10 States 1:1,12,21 substantive 35:3
29:21 situations 9:17 44:22 sue 19:4 53:12
22:7,19 42:19 45:3,5 9:22 11:1 17:4 18:7 19:1,2,3,4 22:2 24:19
35:12 51:11 54:16 24:24 25:9 19:10,12,13,19 27:4 34:11
40:8,9 55:10,15 56:3 28:23 54:4 20:12 21:19,20 36:9,9 37:1,8
see 4:2 14:5 20:1 Somebody's 22:15 24:1 37:12,19 38:19
50:22 51:1 sorry 5:16 42:12 28:21 29:11,16 39:7,11 40:11
21:13,23 seen 15:5 42:13 46:14 32:13,18,24 40:15 41:8,9
28:21,21 sell 37:8 53:3,13 sort 22:14 26:18 34:13,16,22 42:24 43:4,9
29:4,16 seller 53:19,20 sought 48:9 35:18 36:10,22 43:10,12,15
44:1 sense 26:18 sound 40:12 36:24 40:6 44:2,4,8 46:15
7:2,3 30:1,4 52:7 45:19 47:9,25 51:23 52:10,16
8:2 separate 3:16 speak 46:20 49:16 50:11 52:18,19 53:8
11:14 seriously 36:24 specific 4:20,21 51:2 55:18 53:11,18 54:3
set 20:16 21:22 28:3 38:11,13 56:2 54:3,14
18:13 22:10 26:20,21 39:10 statutes 4:7 8:12 Sullivan's 52:20
20:15,19 45:19 55:17 specifically 5:1 10:8 11:13 52:22 53:12
23:10 Seventh 9:17 8:13 19:3 18:17 22:3 54:4
25:23 55:13 20:13 22:10 29:15 37:23,24 sum 44:7
56:11 31:3 38:7,9 39:1,14 supersede 13:21
29:9,10 sex 15:9 29:19 specified 7:25 40:6,25 46:24 supervisor 9:20
30:4 29:21 49:11 specify 8:2 statutory 21:12 supporting 1:21
36:1,5 show 12:16 spurt 14:5 38:23 2:9 44:24
46:8 shown 26:8 stability 27:12 STEVENS supposed 5:1
56:4 shows 34:13 stand 32:16 43:4 26:13,23 27:5 Supreme 1:1,12
shrink 10:12 standard 53:5 27:11 34:2,7 24:2 27:9
21:4 similar 13:1 52:11 straightforward surely 13:2,2,7
similarly 39:9 26:18,19 27:6 street 16:6 55:25
31:23 45:4,23 43:8 51:4 54:8 submit 19:20 T
4:6,8 sitting 18:14 starts 3:17 submitted 56:14 take 7:17 12:13
9:6 situation 7:19 state 10:7,8 56:16 14:15 16:9
15:5 7:20 9:14 14:12 16:12,13 subsection 7:24 21:24 28:12
21:17,18 10:15,16 11:25 16:14 17:6 34:14,24 35:2 49:19 54:17
49:18,21 39:2 40:4,14 tougher 51:22 50:20 56:5
48:22 46:6,9,12,19 treat 51:10 uses 11:1 34:24 31:18 47:20
50:15,20,20,23 treatment 20:13 v 1:5 3:4 49:5
48:5 51:21 52:6,9 trend 14:12 vague 16:9 weight 26:18
54:10,22 true 9:9 15:1 variety 19:16 went 42:24
34:21 24:22,24 46:15 40:14 53:4 viable 34:4 West 1:3 3:4
thinks 46:12 try 47:13 victim 37:15 4:19 19:16
8:21 43:14,25 47:24 18:14 20:11 victims 44:9,11 We'll 3:3
17:20 53:21 22:25 27:12 view 8:15 37:12 we're 9:10,11
21:4 third-party turn 51:12 52:21 viewed 4:8 18:16 20:20,23
42:20 52:11 turning 51:13 VII 10:5,10,16 21:13 22:7,15
55:12 thought 12:3,8 twin 21:24 22:3 10:19,21,23 22:21,22 23:4
20:10 23:16 25:8 46:24 47:14 13:21 14:20 25:24 26:25
29:11 34:8,9 36:18 54:21 15:6,9,10,21 37:4,21 38:16
49:11 40:11 47:20 type 28:3 38:20 15:24 30:8,11 45:21 47:4
54:12,14 53:5 30:11,13,20,25 49:15 53:5
Tillman 51:10 typically 14:1 violated 49:23 20:3 41:19
31:21 33:5 uncapped 15:23 50:17 55:14,16 white 3:20,25
55:1 39:4 41:3 unchecked Virginia 4:19 8:18 9:5 12:25
56:12,13 51:23 44:12 19:16 22:12,22 16:19,24 17:11
Title 10:5,10,16 44:11 29:4,6 33:2
15:6,9,10,21 54:5 56:6 wallet 16:5 word 19:23,24
6:2 8:3 30:8,11,11,13 undoubted 45:7 14:15,22 32:16 37:23,25 38:4
22:5 30:20,25 31:14 uniform 26:24 35:7 41:24 38:8 47:25
24:19 31:15,22 41:4 United 1:1,12,21 45:17 50:18 48:2
41:10 49:3 2:8 44:22 wanted 23:19,24 words 3:20,22
32:1,15 today 31:9,11 University 33:17 12:5 18:8
32:13,18 1981 3:10,15,23 40:10
33:25 4:3,6,8,9,11,23
5:21 8:11,16 2
41:15 8:24 9:6 11:1,4 2 4:16
48:3 12:1,15,24 20 1:9
54:9 13:20 14:1,20 2005 40:24 41:1
17:13 22:1,8,10,21 3
21:23 23:4,17,18 3 2:4
23:7,7 24:20 26:12 30 8:12
36:2 28:1,2,7,11,14 32 13:23
40:4,21 28:16 29:21 37 37:23
2:9
29:14 36:10 38:13,15
41:12 39:5,9 40:10 5
46:1,5,7,22
49:18 51:11 70s 9:16
54:9,17,20,25
55:10 56:3 8
49:12
42:19
41:7
49:2
51:10 54:8,16
1:5 3:4 54:24
46:11
1991 4:6,14,15
55:14,15 4:23 5:22 6:10
1:13 3:2 6:12,13,15
56:15 22:2,6,13,21
4:16 22:25 23:19
55:20 24:8 26:15,16
21:21 40:1 26:22,24 27:8
22:20 30:23 31:4,17
22:20 33:12,16 39:13
