IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MORGAN STANLEY CAPITAL :
GROUP INC., :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1457
PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT NO. 1 :
OF SNOHOMISH COUNTY, :
WASHINGTON, ET AL.; :
and :
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER :
SERVICE CORPORATION, ET :
AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 06-1462
PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT NO. 1 :
OF SNOHOMISH COUNTY, :
WASHINGTON, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, February 19, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Respondent FERC, in support of Petitioners.
WALTER DELLINGER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Petitioners.
CHRISTOPHER J. WRIGHT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of Respondent FERC,
in support of Petitioners 4
WALTER DELLINGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 15
CHRISTOPHER J. WRIGHT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
WALTER DELLINGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:04 a.m.)
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'll repeat myself. I
didn't have the mike on. The Court will hear argument
in Morgan Stanley Capital Group, Inc., against Snohomish
Public Utility District No. 1, or Public District --
Snohomish County No. 1.
Mr. Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT FERC,
IN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. KNEEDLER: Thank you, Justice Stevens,
and may it please the Court:
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in
this case reasonably denied Respondent's request to
modify the wholesale contracts that the purchasing power
companies had entered into in 2000 and 2001. The
Commission reasonably concluded that Respondents had not
made the requisite showing under the Federal Power Act
and under this Court's decisions in Mobile and Sierra
that modification of the contracts was necessary in the
public interest.
In reaching that conclusion, FERC first drew
on three factors that this Court had identified in
Sierra and found that they were not satisfied. Thus, it
found that Respondents had failed to show that the
contracts would impose financial strain on the
purchasing companies; that it would impose excessive
burdens on the customers; or that they were unduly
discriminatory. But FERC also looked --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But FERC thought it could
live with the Ninth Circuit's decision, because the
government recommended that we deny cert in this case;
isn't that so?
MR. KNEEDLER: That is -- that is correct,
and FERC thought that perhaps the decision could be
limited to the circumstances arising out of the
California energy crisis in the years 2000- 2001, and
that it could channel its concerns about contract
stability through those other factors.
But, nonetheless, FERC believes, as its
decisions make clear and as our position in this Court
makes clear, that the Ninth Circuit's reformulation of
the Mobile-Sierra doctrine or interpretation of the act
was incorrect. And, now that the Court has granted
review, we urge affirmance of FERC's decision in this
case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wasn't it clear to the
government that the Ninth Circuit, which is what, about
10 percent of the country, was going to continue this
interpretation of the act, and that was not a matter of
any consequence to FERC or to the government?
MR. GARRE: It was of consequence, but FERC
still believed it had some interpretive authority after
the decision. Maybe this was a wrong judgment at the
time, but FERC thought that it still had some
interpretive authority under the decision, and that it
could --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But, Mr. Kneedler, this
is a decision, the Ninth Circuit decision, that empowers
FERC. FERC says: Oh, we don't have that authority.
And the Ninth Circuit said: Yes, you do. So this is an
agency arguing that it can't do what the Ninth Circuit
says it can. And why can it not? Because of two
decisions of this Court. Is that right?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, two decisions of this
Court and 50 years of intervening FERC, before that
Federal Power Commission, practice.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait, wait, wait. It
didn't just say the agency may do it. It said the
agency must do it. I don't -- I don't consider "must"
to be an empowerment. I consider that to be a
direction.
MR. KNEEDLER: Right. That -- that is
correct. I mean it, I think -- I took the question to
be that it might give FERC broader flexibility, but at a
very substantial cost to the stability of contracts,
which was the underlying point that this Court stressed
in its decision in Sierra: That the Federal Power Act,
unlike -- and the Natural Gas Act, unlike the Interstate
Commerce Act, contemplates that rates will be set by
contract, or at least can be set by contract; and that
therefore, like in most situations, a party to a
contract cannot unilaterally walk away from that
contract or insist upon its modification because it may
become disadvantageous over time.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought -- let's go
back a step. I thought FERC's position was: We could
not decide as a matter of discretion to do this because
we are limited by those Supreme Court decisions.
MR. GARRE: Well, FERC --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it's not what FERC --
FERC independently interpreting the statute to reach the
conclusion, which it might, to reach the conclusion the
Ninth Circuit did. It's FERC saying: We can't do that
because we have our marching orders from the Supreme
Court.
MR. KNEEDLER: No. I think -- I mean there
are -- there are two interpretive questions here: When
does the public interest standard identified in this
Court's decisions in Mobile and Sierra apply? And then
there is the further question of what is necessary to
satisfy the public interest standard for modifying a
contract.
We think on both points the Commission's
decision in this case reflects an interpretive judgment
that the Court's decision, or the interpretation
reflected in the Court's decision, in Sierra applies
equally in the market-based rate system without any of
the -- either of the two prerequisites that the Ninth
Circuit formulated as a precondition to applying the
public interest standard.
And I would point the Court's attention, in
the joint appendix in the Commission's decision, to
joint appendix 1244 and 1245, repeated again at 1572 and
1573; and also the passage quoted in the Morgan Stanley
brief at page 17, reflects a determination of what the
Commission's longstanding policy has been that,
contracts once entered into, their integrity must be
protected and should not be lightly set aside.
And also, the Commission specifically
rejected at pages 1564 and 1565 of the joint appendix
the prerequisites that the Ninth Circuit came up with in
this case, that there must be an opportunity to
determine whether the rates were within a zone of just
and reasonableness at the time the contracts were
entered into in order for Mobile and Sierra to apply.
Under a market-based rate system, what FERC
does is determine at the outset when an applicant
applies for a market-based tariff whether that company
has market power and if so, whether it's mitigated.
Only in those circumstances is the company granted the
authority to market -- to set prices by the market.
JUSTICE ALITO: What happens if that
approval is given and then a seller enters into
contracts and then it's later discovered that, contrary
to what FERC thought when it granted the approval, the
seller has exercised market power or has otherwise
manipulated the market? Is there any remedy in that
situation?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, what the Commission
determined in this case is that there was -- there was
no manipulation or exercise of market power identified
with respect to these specific contracts. And what the
Commission decided was that the importance of the
integrity of contracts in that circumstance required
that the contract be maintained. If the Respondents had
shown bad faith or something like that in the
connection -- or fraud in connection with the formation
of these particular contracts, that would have been
quite a different matter.
It's also important to note that the
Commission found in this case that there was no
dysfunction in the forward market, which is what we have
here. What was going on is that there was dysfunction
in the spot market in 2000, 2001 for a variety of
reasons, some of them going to market fundamentals such
as a shortage of generation capacity, a shortage of
hydropower.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just so I understand your
answer to Justice Alito's question, the Commission has
retroactive authority to alter the permission to engage
in these contracts only if there is fraud --
MR. KNEEDLER: No it can -- I'm sorry --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- or something similar?
MR. KNEEDLER: Once it has granted
market-based rate authority, FERC can revoke that. And
in fact, companies -- there is a triennial review of
that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Retroactive?
MR. KNEEDLER: Pardon?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Retroactively?
MR. KNEEDLER: No. It would be revoked --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But Justice Alito's
question, I think as I understood it, or at least a
question in my mind that followed upon it, was whether
or not -- what's the basis for any retroactive
revocation of that or --
MR. KNEEDLER: No, it wouldn't be
retroactive. It would be from the date of the complaint
that was filed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would it be a public
interest finding, a finding that because of the market
manipulation by the seller that affected this very
contract, the public interest demands that we not hold
the --
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. In that situation there
is an important public interest in eliminating fraud.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't say fraud. I said
market manipulation.
MR. KNEEDLER: Or market manipulation.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't the remedy for the
finding of market manipulation the abrogation of the
contract, which is a separate process from, from the
revocation of market-based tariff?
MR. KNEEDLER: There are. And this is the
point I was going to make --
JUSTICE SOUTER: The same reason may support
each, but --
MR. KNEEDLER: Right. I was going to make
that point in response to Justice Kennedy's question.
If it turns out that subsequent evidence shows that a
particular company has acquired market-based power, then
FERC can revoke that authority on a going-forward basis
to continue to sell on that basis. And in fact,
companies are required to report any changes in their
circumstances that might affect their market power, and
there is a triennial review of that. But as long ago
the market --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did the companies who
were involved in this case make those reports? I mean,
there was something about during this energy crisis
there was rampant noncompliance with the filing, with
the quarterly report filing.
MR. KNEEDLER: There was, and the Ninth
Circuit found that in the Lockyer decision. But that is
the sort of flaw and market oversight that should be
addressed directly by FERC. It shouldn't be -- it
shouldn't be addressed by collateral attacks on
contracts that were entered into under the regulatory
regime as it existed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kneedler, I'm not
entirely understanding you. Why should the fact that
the seller later acquired market power have anything to
do with whether the initial contract, when he did not
have market power, was a fair one? The contracts are
already down in black and white, his later acquisition
of market power cannot affect --
MR. KNEEDLER: No, that is certainly
correct. I think the question, what concerned the Ninth
Circuit -- actually, the Ninth Circuit wasn't addressing
market power. It was addressing the possibility of
market dysfunction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand. But later
acquisition of market power would result in a
cancellation of the permission for this particular firm
to enter into contracts for the future, but I don't see
why it would affect the past contracts.
MR. KNEEDLER: And we don't think it should,
except to the extent the public interest standard is
met.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Maybe I think I led us into
this, Mr. Kneedler. The situation that I was positing
was a situation in which the power marketer had engaged
in market manipulation in the context of which, at the
time of which, it made this contract. And my suggestion
to you, which I think you took, was that in a situation
like that there would be a basis for public interest
review and abrogation of this contract because of the
market manipulation in fact.
And the market manipulation would also be a
reason to say market power had been acquired. It had
not been mitigated, and hence, the market-based tariff
authority would also be revoked. And that was the, that
was the limit of my question. And I take it your answer
there is it could do each of those things?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. It could revoke the
market-based power going forward. And with respect to
manipulation, especially if there was manipulation
affecting the particular contract, that would be a basis
for finding that the public interest required the
contract to be modified.
If I may, I'd like to reserve the balance of
my time.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler, I do have
one question. It was the position that FERC took in
December of 2000, when it was encouraging the entrance
into the long-term contracts rather than using the spot
market, and in that order FERC said that it would
monitor long-term contracts vigorously for rate
reasonableness and that buyers could challenge rates
through 206 proceedings. What happened to that
position?
MR. KNEEDLER: This is such a challenge, but
what FERC has concluded is that the public interest
standard has to be satisfied in that situation. FERC
encouraged parties to go into the long-term market in
order to diminish the market volatility and it would
frustrate that encouragement of policy --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And how did FERC monitor
the rates vigorously to make sure they were reasonable?
MR. KNEEDLER: There was extensive staff
studies and monitoring in subsequent decisions that are,
that are shown and that are in the joint appendix, in
April -- in January and April and June when FERC came up
with its final program to mitigate the problems in the
spot market.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Dellinger.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WALTER DELLINGER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. DELLINGER: Justice Stevens, good
morning, and may it please the Court:
Justice Ginsburg began by asking whether the
Ninth Circuit decision did not in fact empower rather
than restrict the authority of the Commission. The
answer is that the Ninth Circuit decision fundamentally
precludes the Commission from carrying out what the
Commission believes is essential to its mandate to
assure an abundancy of electrical energy at the lowest
possible cost. And that is to encourage a market-based
approach to recognize that if you're going to have, as
the Commission has said, the kind of investment in the
building of infrastructure to produce energy, people are
going to have to be able to rely upon long-term
contracts.
In this case, what the Ninth Circuit's
decision did is to take away a very important option
that the Commission believes is essential in times of
market volatility and dysfunction. And that is the
option for parties to get out of the spot market and to
enter into a long-term contract of a secure supply.
If the Ninth Circuit's decision stood,
literally parties, buyers and sellers, would both be
precluded from entering into that, because you would
know if there were dysfunction that nothing you could
say in the contract could mean that you could buy power
for the next eight years at $105 at a time, as was the
case here, when the spot market was $300. It would take
away the option. And sellers would know they couldn't
enter into a contract they could rely upon subject only
to being overridden in the public interest, which FERC
does. And that would be very damaging to the very
processes which the Commission has used consistent with
this Court's decision of 50 years ago to encourage
development in this industry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, those decisions are
puzzling transposed to this setting, because in those
decisions it was the seller who had made a bad bargain;
the price was too low; and the seller wanted to get out,
right?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And now we are
transposing that. And one of the main themes I think of
Justice Harlan's decision was this Act was meant to
protect the consumer, to make sure that the consumer
wasn't going to be overcharged. And that runs through
those two 1956 decisions, at a time when there was no
market-based authority, or any such, right?
MR. DELLINGER: Well, yes. Justice
Ginsburg, that is correct. That was a case where a
seller was seeking to get out of a contract that was
paying too low.
But the fundamental purpose -- the Court
recognized even in Justice Harlan's opinion that
maintaining the stability and expectation of contracts
was going to be important to consumers, to buyers as
well as to sellers. In this -- and FERC has adopted
that position.
In this case you have a situation where the
Commission decided that instability in the spot markets
was being partly caused by the fact that the State
regulatory process had discouraged people from entering
into longer term contracts; and FERC said in its 2000
San Diego order, we strongly urge utilities to move
their load to long-term contracts of two years or more.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's the same order
where they said we are going to monitor the rates for
reasonableness.
MR. DELLINGER: That is true. And when they
did indeed undertake a review of this, they decided that
with respect to these contracts there was no evidence of
bad faith. There was no evidence of unfairness. There
was no evidence of duress. There was no evidence of any
market manipulation that affected the contracts
specifically in these long-term cases.
The long-term contracts were part of the
solution or the mitigation of the problem. It was a
long-term contract that allowed the utilities in this
case to get out from under $300 a megawatt prices and to
enter into a contract at $105, in one of the cases.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Can I ask this question?
Assuming there is absolutely no bad faith or fraud or
anything like that, but there is just a general
conclusion that the market was such -- in such turmoil
that there could not be made reasonable or long-term
contracts, because the predicate for that kind of
negotiation just didn't exist. Would that be a basis
for setting aside the contract?
MR. DELLINGER: No; and it's very important
that not be a basis, because if that were the case,
parties would know and parties -- both -- all parties
were aware that there was volatility, and the Commission
had announced that the conditions were conducive to
manipulation of the spot markets. That would mean that
a seller would say to a buyer, we know you would like to
get out of this volatility and get a regular supply
guaranteed at a -- at a much lower price for long term.
We can't enter into that contract, because the fact that
we know there has been this problem in the market means
that our contract won't be upheld.
Now, the Ninth Circuit decision says that
contract terms are not binding if they were influenced
by a dysfunctional market; and that is the very most
important circumstance in which having long-term
contracting is most valuable.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is volatile the same as
dysfunctional?
MR. DELLINGER: Justice Kennedy, I don't
know precisely what the Ninth Circuit means by
dysfunctional. There is volatility. I think the
difference would be is there manipulation, is one
factor; there were a number of factors that caused the
volatility here --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Dellinger, does that
mean that it is your position that no matter how
dysfunctional the market was, just complete turmoil, as
long as the contract was made in good faith without any
fraud or abuse of power, it's a binding contract?
MR. DELLINGER: That is correct, unless --
and this is an important unless -- the Commission
reviews those contract terms and finds that the public
interest necessitates a revision of the contract. They
have that discretion. They have that authority. They
are prepared to and have exercised it, but in -- in this
case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: For example --
MR. DELLINGER: For example --
JUSTICE SCALIA: For example, if the prices
down the road turn out to be so high for the utility,
that the utility would go out of business?
MR. DELLINGER: That is an example that the
Court gave in Mobile and -- and Sierra. But the
Court -- but what the Commission would know is that the
circumstances would have to be rather extraordinary.
Because whenever you were to modify the terms of a
contract that the sellers have been relying upon, the
sellers became buyers. They also went out on the
market. They are buying and selling.
So unraveling all of these buying and
selling would itself be -- would be dysfunctional; but
what sellers would know thereafter is that they couldn't
rely upon the contracts. They would either have to stay
out of that market or they would have to charge a risk
premium, which would raise prices to buyers and
consumers.
So that long run harm of making it less
reliable to engage in contracting would have to be
overcome by a fairly severe showing of what the
short-term harms would be to one particular set of
buyers.
The Commission has made those findings.
They found circumstances where the contracts gave first
priority to commercial uses of power, and at a time of
shortage that meant that residential customers would be
cut off. The Commission ordered that done.
The Commission has been on the job here.
They have -- the process by which they grant
market-based rate authority is an elaborate one. They
get assurances that the sellers lack transmission market
power, generation market power, that there are no
barriers to entry, that if they have transmission
facilities there is open access. They -- any party can
challenge that. And any party in this case, any party
in this case --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said the Commission
is on the job, but one of the pieces of information here
is that the Commission staff said that the dysfunction
in the spot market carried over into the forward market,
such that prices in the forward market were inflated.
MR. DELLINGER: That is correct. But what
the Commission realized is that the parties were aware
of what was going on in the spot market. They were able
to contract on that basis. They could have asked for
what's called a Memphis clause, giving either party the
right to seek modification based on some administrative
determination of what a right price would be at some
later point. They did not. They kept in the clauses
that allowed only joint approaches to the Commission,
and indeed in one contract said that the rates are fixed
and shall remain in effect for the terms of this
agreement. That language is illustrative of how you
could not enter into a long-term contract and assure
that the terms were binding. The fact that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand what
that statement means, anyway. The current dysfunction
carries over into -- into the future market? What does
that mean?
MR. DELLINGER: Right. Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does it mean that because
of the current dysfunction, you can't predict for sure
what the rates are going to be down the road? Of course
it means that. But doesn't a dysfunction always mean
that?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes. Dysfunction --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And isn't that why you
enter into long-term contracts?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes. Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because given the current
dysfunction you have no idea what the price is going to
be down the road.
MR. DELLINGER: That's exactly right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dellinger, wasn't the
staff saying something more than that in that -- in that
report?
MR. DELLINGER: I don't -- I don't know what
you're intimating, but what the conclusion was of the
Commission was, for example, that there was no basis to
support a finding that the Respondents exercised market
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the Commission didn't
-- didn't respond to the staff report, right? Didn't
say anything one way or another about it.
MR. DELLINGER: Well, the Commission
expressly said with respect to the -- to the staff
report that there was no evidence of any manipulation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did they say it with
respect to the staff report? Or -- I thought they
thought the staff report was irrelevant?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes. The aspect of the
staff report that said that forward prices were
influenced by prices in the spot market and that there
had been dysfunction was irrelevant precisely because it
would have been relevant were the Commission making its
own bureaucratic determination of a right price. But
the parties made the determination of the prices that
they wanted to agree to, the terms they wanted to agree
to, and they did so with full knowledge both that they
knew there had been some manipulation, that there was
volatility and that they knew they didn't know, as
Justice Scalia, said the extent of it; and, therefore,
that's precisely why you want to be involved in a
contract that guarantees you today that, no matter what
happens to prices in the next year or next summer, one
of these -- one of these utilities has a guarantee of
power at $105.
I will reserve my time for Mr. Kneedler,
unless there are questions.
No, I'm not. He is going to do a rebuttal,
whatever amount of time we have, Justice Stevens --
JUSTICE STEVENS: All right.
MR. DELLINGER: -- unless there are further
questions.
Thank you.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Wright.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER J. WRIGHT
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS
MR. WRIGHT: Thank you, Justice Stevens, and
may it please the Court:
I'd like to start off by picking up on
Justice Ginsburg's observation that FERC understood
itself to be without discretion here, and add the point
that this is an extremely unusual case where FERC
thought it lacked discretion to apply the statute. In
the briefs, there is now agreement that the just and
reasonable standard applies to all rates under the Act
and couldn't be more clear that the just and reasonable
standard applies. FERC --
JUSTICE ALITO: Among your arguments, and
the arguments of the Respondent, seems to be in some
tension -- seems to me in some tension to FERC's
market-based rate program. Do you -- do you acknowledge
that that is permissible interpretation of the Federal
Power Act or not?
MR. WRIGHT: I -- there is much that we
don't disagree with about the market-based rate program.
I suppose we do think that there are two things that
FERC has to make sure that it does as part of that
program.
First, in -- in approving the market-based
rate program, Judge Douglas Ginsburg said when there is
a competitive market, FERC may rely upon market-based
rates in lieu of cost-of-service regulations. That
makes perfect sense to us, but when there is a
competitive market. So we think a critical part of a
market-based rate program is that there must be an
inquiry into whether or not the market was competitive
when the contract was entered into. Of course, we have
the unusual circumstance here where Professor Kahn and
nine other deregulatory economists wrote a letter in May
2001 saying markets are out of control, this is the
unusual circumstance where FERC should enter a price
cap.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't it -- isn't it a
central requirement of a market-based rate program that
FERC cannot, except perhaps in very limited
circumstances, go back and undo contracts that had been
entered into under that program, based on a
retrospective determination that the rates are not just
and reasonable, in the same sense that FERC would have
applied that term if the utility had simply filed a
tariff?
MR. WRIGHT: Justice Alito, all rates must
be just and reasonable. We are not arguing that FERC
needs to go back to a cost-of-service ratemaking
approach; but an agency that sees just and reasonable
and thinks it's applying a just and reasonable standard,
for 70 years has thought it's either going to do a
cost-of-service approach, or more recently it's going to
rely on the market to make rates just and reasonable,
our modest point is that it can't ignore the market. It
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but I guess this is
what's bothering us. Your point does not seem, at least
to me, to be a modest point, because if I understand
where you're going, you're saying that in a market with
the degree of volatility of this one at the time these
contracts were made, no contract is enforceable. It
will last only so long as -- as one party does not
complain about a disadvantage, and the minute it does,
it's back in front of FERC. And the argument is being
made that in fact a market-based rate cannot be enforced
through contract because the very premise -- i.e., what
you call and what was called a competitive -- Judge
Ginsburg called a competitive market -- was absent.
Isn't that the consequence of what you're arguing?
MR. WRIGHT: Yes. Let me make four points
here, though, that I think make absolutely clear that it
would not set a broad precedent to revisit the contracts
here.
And the four points are first, the
Government acknowledges in its brief at page 16, this
was the worst electricity market crisis in history.
Second --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, how do we know when
we're only in the second worst?
(Laughter.)
MR. WRIGHT: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, but I mean the
problem is --
MR. WRIGHT: No, no --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And I don't see any -- and
I realize that you're giving me limiting principles to
what seems to me in effect a general rule that says no
contracts are enforceable, if they are made during
periods of market volatility, however sensible they may
be given the premise of that volatility.
And your first proposal for a limiting
principle is this is the worst of times, and I don't see
how that's going to help because somebody is always
going to claim, well, these times are -- are almost as
bad.
MR. WRIGHT: Well, Your Honor, of course the
Federal Power Act instructs a Federal agency to ensure
that rates are just and reasonable. A -- the Federal
Power Act --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Look --
MR. WRIGHT: The FERC, FERC needs to grapple
with this.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's a good -- I mean
that's a fine general phrase, but the question is, is it
possible to make an enforceable contract under these
circumstances?
MR. WRIGHT: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I haven't heard a limiting
principle yet. You have three others.
MR. WRIGHT: I have three others. There was
rampant noncompliance with the reporting requirements.
The Government concedes that, too: FERC's market-based
rate program, however well it might work today after
it's been improved, as the Government said in its
opposition to cert, however well it's been improved on
account of the 2005 amendments --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Did these -- did -- did the
Petitioners here -- do you claim that the Petitioners
here were guilty of failure to report?
MR. WRIGHT: Yes. They -- they were not --
they were not complying with the -- we contend that the
reporting requirements that were in effect in 2001 were
inconsistent with the statute and not --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's -- that's a
different issue. That -- that may be that the
Commission was derelict in -- in having a nonstatutory
condition. But did these -- did these Petitioners -- do
you claim, is it a basis for your claim before FERC,
that these Petitioners failed to follow the reporting
requirements that were in effect?
MR. WRIGHT: Our -- our basic argument is
the rates weren't just and reasonable --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's what I thought.
MR. WRIGHT: And the rates weren't just and
reasonable on the day the contracts were signed. And
let me make clear --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, but here I just want
to make sure I understand. You're saying one -- one
limiting principle is the re-examination of contract
might be limited or at least only prompted by a -- a
failure to follow reporting requirements. I can
understand that and that offhand seems to me perfectly
fair. It may not cover this case, but I can understand
that. What are your other two reasons?
MR. WRIGHT: My third is, as Commissioner
Massey stated in his dissent, without contradiction by
the majority, that if the just and reasonable standard
were -- would be applied, these rates would be declared
unlawful, because they were multiples of traditional
prices.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, but that seems to me
consistent with the problem that I have with your
argument. And that is, if you make a contract in a
period of high volatility, and it seems reasonable to
the two parties to come up with a rate that is certainly
a higher rate than anybody would come up with if they
were going through cost-plus-return ratemaking, the
contract is vulnerable. And it seems to me that
Commissioner Massey's argument is consistent with the
conclusion that all those contracts are vulnerable. So
I don't see that as any limiting principle. What's your
fourth one?
MR. WRIGHT: The fourth one is, as Justice
Ginsburg has noted, that FERC said in December 2000,
before all of the contracts at issue were negotiated,
that it would monitor and -- and would -- deems rates
above $74 suspect. All the contracts in here have rates
above that benchmark. So it's the worst crisis in
history; there's rampant noncompliance; rates were
multiples of traditional pricings, and FERC had said it
was going to study these rates closely.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, I can understand --
under your fourth point, I could understand the position
if the argument were this is above $74, and therefore it
is suspect; but the claim you're making, as I understand
it, is a much broader claim. You're saying the entire
contract ought to be abrogated in the public interest,
not merely above 74 but below 74. Isn't that correct?
MR. WRIGHT: Well, I'm sorry, Your Honor.
We want this case to be sent back to FERC.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And when you get there,
you're saying abrogate this contract.
MR. WRIGHT: We are saying reduce the rates,
and --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Are you saying -- have you
at any point said reduce the rates to $74?
MR. WRIGHT: I'm sure different -- there are
many different parties on my side. I'm sure we have
many different theories. Could I tell you what FERC 's
done with respect to the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I will -- I will stop the
cross-examination, but I just wanted to get the four
points.
MR. WRIGHT: I appreciate the
cross-examination. It's helped me get out what I think
our four points --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If -- if your theory
prevails and you go back to the Commission, does the
Morgan Stanley contract, where the lower rate seller
was, does that get reevaluated, too? You reevaluate all
the contracts back down the line?
MR. WRIGHT: Well, I -- does Morgan
Stanley's -- well, Morgan Stanley actually -- a number
of parties in Morgan Stanley's situation chose to file
protective actions, and Morgan Stanley didn't. So I
don't know whether it has waived its rights or not. But
I think FERC ought to grapple with that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me say that,
consistent with your theory, that everybody -- that this
whole unwinding process backs up all the way down to the
original seller?
MR. WRIGHT: Right.
Well, Your Honor, the way these markets
work, there is every reason to think that Morgan Stanley
doesn't have the sort of claim that they have suggested
without telling us they have. And, of course, they know
what their portfolio is.
There is every reason to think they bought
power before the big spike came, and that they bought
power since then, and that they're not -- they're not
buying power at 104 and selling it to Snohomish at 105,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, good for them.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean you're suggesting
they should be punished for that? I don't understand
what -- what follows? I mean --
MR. WRIGHT: We're not, Your Honor, but I
would remind you this is a plain-language case. The
statute requires rates to be just and reasonable. That
-- for 70 years, that's meant something to
administrative agencies. The reason --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But how would you -- how
would you go about determining in this case? You said
it's not the traditional cost of service, return on
investment. So how -- if you prevail, what should FERC
do to determine whether this rate was fair and
reasonable?
MR. WRIGHT: Thank you, Your Honor.
We expect that, ultimately, it will do, or
should do, what it's done with respect to the spot
market. With respect to the spot market, it has
provided relief to parties who bought at the same time.
And what it has done is it has -- it has determined what
it calls a mitigated market clearing price.
It has done this with great elaborate --
elaboration for periods as low as 10 minutes for the
period in 2000 - 2001, when it is now conceded
manipulation raised rates on the spot market. And it
has taken the prices that were paid, and it has -- it
has reduced them to what it calls the "mitigated market
clearing price."
This is -- this is described in painful
detail in the -- in the Ninth Circuit's 2006 CPUC versus
FERC opinion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Didn't your clients know
that the market was chaotic at the time they entered
into this long-term contract? I mean does this come as
a surprise that after the fact, now that you're paying
more than the market price is, you want to kick over a
long-term contract you entered into?
What has changed? Did you not know that the
market was chaotic? Wasn't that the very reason you
entered into the long-term contract.
MR. WRIGHT: Your Honor, we had a sort of a
Henry Ford choice. Any -- we had a choice of a variety
of rates as long as they were unjust and unreasonable.
We didn't have any alternative, because of the market
manipulation, that allowed us to get a just and
reasonable rate on the spot market, on long-term markets
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: You were saying that the
most -- the most reasonable thing for us to do was to
enter into a long-term contract in order to mitigate the
effects of the chaotic spot market. You understood
that.
MR. WRIGHT: In large part, because FERC had
told us they were going to monitor these contracts and
use the $74 benchmark.
JUSTICE SCALIA: In fact, you did very well
under these contracts. Initially, you were even
reselling some of the energy that you got. You got it
at a price so much below what was then the market that
you made a profit by reselling it.
But now that things have changed, you don't
like the long-term contract.
MR. WRIGHT: Your Honor, it's our position
that we have to prove these were just and reasonable on
the day they were entered. And the way these markets
work, local utilities like Snohomish buy energy, and
they always sell a little bit. They're going to lose
153 million over the life of this contract. And it's
always been the life of the contract that FERC has
thought was the -- the real benchmark.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Wright, may I go back
to your answer to Justice Ginsburg's question? She
asked you: What do you want FERC to do if it does what
you want them to do?
And you said: We want them to make the same
kind of adjustments ex post that they made to the spot
prices.
Isn't there one big difference here to --
between readjusting spot prices and rewriting or
abrogating a contract like this?
In the case of adjusting the spot prices, in
effect. What they are saying is: Somebody isn't going
to make the killing that he thought he was making. It
was -- a spot price indicates it was a snap decision.
People were reacting to -- to changes in the market from
hour to hour. And the Commission is going to go back
and say, you know, you're out of luck on the killing you
thought you made.
When, on the other hand, the Commission, in
effect, rewrites or abrogates a contract, it is saying
something very different. It is saying: You may not
engage in long-term reliance on the agreements that you
make. And isn't that a huge difference?
MR. WRIGHT: Your Honor, we think that FERC
could, and it seems clear that it will, distinguish
between the spot market and long-term contracts on these
bases. Our point there is that we probably, if it does,
then have to overcome a hurdle and show that there
wasn't effective competition at the time the long-term
contracts were entered into.
FERC might rationally, once it grapples with
this, decide that that's the way the just and reasonable
standard applies.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but with respect,
doesn't that, in effect, mean -- going back to your
answer to Justice Ginsburg -- that what you really want
is to say there wasn't effective competition.
There wasn't effective competition because
the market was chaotic.
And, therefore, in a chaotic market,
including this one, a long-term contract which later
turns out to be disadvantageous to one side is
unenforceable.
Isn't that what you -- your real answer to
Justice Ginsburg is.
MR. WRIGHT: Well, Your Honor, again, I
don't think we should prevail, and it's not our position
that we prevail, unless we show that we didn't have just
and reasonable alternatives at the time we entered into
the contract. We don't think we can --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but I mean -- that's
where I don't think that, at least with me, helps your
argument. We all know that there is a broad umbrella
standard of justness and reasonableness. One index of
justness is the set of conditions under which the
parties operate. The conditions in this case were
conditions of chaos.
And what the other side is saying, I think,
is: We each tried to make the most reasonable deal we
could, the most advantageous for us that we could, under
these conditions of chaos.
They certainly produced a rate that wouldn't
have been produced in a calm time either by market-based
tariffs or by cost-plus-return ratemaking. But under
the circumstances that we did operate in, this is what
it produced. And we were dealing at arm's length.
Nobody was engaging in fraud, et cetera. So that's
just.
And I think when you say, as you did a
minute ago, there is an overarching obligation or
standard of justness and reasonableness, I think you're
saying that that reasoning that I just tried to outline
is not sufficient reasoning for sustaining the contract.
Now, if I'm wrong, tell me.
If I'm right, it seems to me you're really
saying ditch the contracts if they were entered into in
a period of high volatility.
MR. WRIGHT: Well, Your Honor, let me make
clear what -- what we mean by "chaos" or "high
volatility." We think we have to show that manipulation
was affecting the market. We don't -- we don't think we
are entitled to relief if it was the weather that was
affecting the market. FERC's 2003 staff --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Are you entitled to relief
if there was manipulation, but these people were not
engaging in the manipulation? In other words, they are,
in effect, innocent of the manipulation; but they, as
sellers, are in a chaotic market. Are you entitled to
relief against them under those circumstances?
MR. WRIGHT: We -- we don't think that a
statute that protects consumers and says that consumers
get just and reasonable rates was enacted to prevent --
to overcome contracts only when there is fraud in the
contract.
JUSTICE SOUTER: The trouble is that
justness is a relational category, and you are -- I
think you are saying we don't have to consider justness
to the parties who were doing -- we will assume for the
sake of the question -- the best that they could under
bad circumstances. You are saying justness only goes to
the ultimate retail ratepayer.
MR. WRIGHT: Again, Your Honor, we don't
need the statute. The statute is superfluous insofar as
it affects contracts, and that is its main effect, if it
requires fraud in the negotiation of the contract.
And, again, if Morgan Stanley can show that
it was a victim of manipulation, too, then it is
entitled to relief. There has certainly been some of
that with respect to some of these spot market deals
where there are occasionally intervening parties.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Wright, I really don't
understand why you would -- why you say, you know, if --
if the chaos is due to the weather or maybe, you know,
an Arab oil embargo or whatever, that that's perfectly
okay. But if it's due to manipulation, it's bad. I can
understand if you added manipulation by one of the
parties, by the sellers, that I could understand.
But so long as it's a factor extrinsic to
the parties to the contract, what difference does it
make to the buyer whether the flukishness of the market
is caused by the weather or by manipulation by somebody
other than the seller?
In other words, I think it's not enough to
show manipulation. That's what's going on in the
market. And you're trying to save yourself from it. So
long as it's not manipulation by the seller, I don't see
how you have a -- I don't know -- an equitable case.
MR. WRIGHT: It -- on the equities, if the
local utilities end up bearing the brunt of making bad
judgments about the weather, that's one thing. It's
quite another thing if there is rampant non-compliance,
hiding the fact that there's been massive withholding of
energy, and driving -- and these spikes were not
accidental, by any means. That seems to us to be, you
know, a -- a sort of distinction that the -- that the
law draws all the time.
And let me say the example came --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm still puzzled by your
answer to Justice Scalia. If, say, it is something like
an atom bomb or terrorism or something totally innocent,
where the parties are -- but it causes the same economic
consequence, namely: That the rates are a lot higher
than they otherwise would be, why do you draw the
distinction that he says doesn't make sense?
MR. WRIGHT: Well, I guess the ultimate
distinction is that there isn't somebody making a whole
lot of money on account of market manipulation
somewhere.
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but in each case the
rates would be higher than they otherwise would, and
you'd have to say they're high enough to be no longer
just and reasonable.
MR. WRIGHT: Well, "just and reasonable,"
again, has always -- has traditionally first meant a
sort of cost-of-service inquiry and more recently means
a market inquiry. But, again, a market inquiry doesn't
-- means a competitive market, an effective market, as
Professor Kahn said, not a market totally infected by
manipulation. And then, in any case --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Even if infected by an act
of God, it seems to me the same consequence.
MR. WRIGHT: I guess consumers bear the
brunt of acts of God, but don't -- shouldn't bear the
brunt of market manipulation that was unlawful and now
is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think you could argue
that it should be just the obverse.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Aren't you really arguing
-- no, but aren't you really making the argument that
the notion of justness does have an equitable component
that looks to the source of the trouble; and if the
source of the chaos in the market are the very people
who are trying to make a profit on your contract, that
is a reason to say that that market-based rate is not a
just one, because they created the conditions that gave
them the leverage to get you to make the deal that you
made?
But if they are not guilty of improper
conduct in making it, then, you know, everybody has to
take his lumps. Aren't you saying something like that?
MR. WRIGHT: We don't know because FERC
hasn't looked at it, what -- who Morgan Stanley paid and
what they paid and who made the money here.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but just as a general
premise, in your answer to Justice Scalia weren't you
assuming something like that?
MR. WRIGHT: We certainly think that the
best result would be that whoever was manipulating the
market ought to be the one who ends up getting their
return cut; and that the local utilities and any
innocent middlemen should be made whole, too. That's
fine.
It was brought up earlier in discussing the
market-based rate program sort of what sorts of remedies
were allowed. And let me say that -- well, I think this
came out, but the Enron example shows very well. Enron
got market-based rate authority in 1993. Enron was not
the only player, but was a leading player in the market
manipulation in 2000-2001. FERC didn't get around to
lifting their market-based rate authority until 2003,
and they did it strictly prospectively.
It is a core point of our argument today
that that shouldn't be allowed. And I think the answer
was: Well, market-based rate authority only results in
lifting the market-based rate authority; a 206 action
under the Federal Power Act is where consumers get
relief.
That's right, and we're here to get relief,
and we think that ultimately the parties that
manipulated the market and made too much money on
account of the manipulation ought to -- ought to lose
what they paid; and, certainly, the ratepayers shouldn't
bear the costs; and if there are innocent middlemen they
shouldn't bear the cost, either.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And, to the extent that you
make that argument, that's an answer, sort of, to the
question that I put to you a couple of times: Why, why
isn't your argument anything less broad than the fact
that you can't make a contract in a chaotic market?
And you are, at least as a subset of what
you are saying, telling us that if the contract -- if
the chaos in the market was caused by the impropriety of
one contracting party, that party should not profit from
it. And I understand that answer. That if -- to the
extent that that is your position, it is an answer to my
question.
MR. WRIGHT: Thank you, Your Honor.
And let me remind the Court that one case
that the other side I don't think has acknowledged
sufficiently is this Court's 1974 Texaco decision. That
was a situation where FERC -- well, the Federal Power
Commission attempted -- attempted to do what the other
side is asking this Court to rule today, to essentially
make contracts sacrosanct and not subject to any
challenge.
FERC had told small producers that it
wouldn't -- that they could enter into contracts and
they didn't have to file the contracts, and the
Commission wouldn't review the contracts to see if they
were just and reasonable. This Court very clearly held,
quote, "The Commission lacks authority to place
exclusive reliance on market prices," unquote.
Under this statute, which requires just and
reasonable rates, there must be coexistence between
contracts and a regulatory backstop. And, again, in the
situation here that you helped me review -- the worst
electricity market crisis in history, rampant
non-compliance, rates that were multiples of traditional
levels, and couldn't be justified under anything FERC
has ever called a just and reasonable standard, and FERC
had said it was going to examine a benchmark -- this is
a case that FERC has to go back and explain why, at
least explain why it thinks these rates are just and
reasonable.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just and reasonable when?
MR. WRIGHT: On the day they were made.
JUSTICE SCALIA: On the day they were
agreed to.
MR. WRIGHT: And we think they weren't,
because they were the product of market manipulation
that made all of the rates available --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They were just and
reasonable --
MR. WRIGHT: -- that made all rates unjust
and unreasonable on that date, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But I think -- and here I
want to be clear on this -- you're saying they were not
just and reasonable on the date they were made, number
one, if the market manipulation that caused the chaos
was manipulation by these Petitioners. That at least is
part of your argument.
But I think you're also saying that the
rates were not just and reasonable if they were the
result of market manipulation by others, not these
Petitioners. Am I correct that your argument is broad
enough to encompass the second alternative?
MR. WRIGHT: Absolutely, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
JUSTICE ALITO: And even that argument is
much narrower than what the Ninth Circuit held, isn't
it? The Ninth Circuit just referred to "dysfunction in
the market." They didn't say: And dysfunction means
manipulation by anybody. They seemed to have included
all sorts of other things: The California regulatory
program, the weather, and a number of other factors.
MR. WRIGHT: Your Honor, we certainly agree
that the test can't be dysfunction; that FERC has to
grapple with this issue and give it a concrete meaning.
I'm sure there would be disagreement on
remand as to exactly what it means, and there are lines
to be drawn. But FERC needs to do that. FERC hasn't
done that.
FERC honestly thought -- again, this is an
unusual case. FERC honestly thinks that the public
interest standard, or thought that the public interest
standard, is a completely different animal than the just
and reasonable standard.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you are relying on the
narrowest ground that Justice Souter mentioned, namely,
manipulation by the seller, wasn't it incumbent on you
to demonstrate that there was manipulation by the
seller? Has that been -- has that been established?
MR. WRIGHT: We are relying on both, Your
Honor. We are -- our -- our main argument is that all
rates in the West at this period of time --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because of manipulation by
somebody.
MR. WRIGHT: -- were the result of
manipulation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, didn't the ALJ find
there wasn't manipulation in this market, the forward
market?
MR. WRIGHT: And the ALJ found that the spot
market -- the ALJ found that the spot market
manipulation didn't affect the forward markets. No one
agrees to that today. FERC has disowned it. Morgan
Stanley has disowned it. I'm told that the ALJ has
disowned it.
JUSTICE ALITO: FERC disowned -- did FERC
reject the finding of the ALJ as to manipulation of this
--
MR. WRIGHT: FERC said it was irrelevant.
That was the part of FERC's first order, where it said
it is irrelevant whether the manipulation of the spot
markets affected manipulation in the long-term markets.
That would be relevant only if the just and reasonable
standard applies. Of course, the just and reasonable
standard applies.
One final point. One remarkable aspect of
this case is after FERC said that in its initial order,
Morgan Stanley asked them to reconsider it, and they
said we won't do that. Thank you.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Kneedler, in your
rebuttal, will you address the state of the record with
respect to evidence or findings about possible
manipulation by these Petitioners?
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT FERC,
IN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. On page 1589 of the
joint appendix the Commission said we've reviewed the
staff reports findings in the 100-day discovery, which
were discovery occurring in other proceedings, and found
no evidence to support a finding of market manipulation
that specifically affected the contracts at issue.
It's important to recognize that there were
two separate markets here. There was the spot market,
which had struck in addition to all the weather and all
those things, it had structural problems requiring the
California investor-owned utilities to trade on the spot
market, which contributed to the opportunities for the
manipulation. The dysfunction and manipulation were
tied together in that market, but there was -- the ALJ
found that the long-term market was not dysfunctional.
It was functioning, it operated as it should. Both
parties --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- know that's a premise
in the debate. I find it hard to accept. How could the
two be totally separate? It was the crisis that made it
necessary to engage in the long-term account.
MR. KNEEDLER: FERC has great discretion in
deciding how to apply the public interest standard.
It's not necessary to find that they were absolutely
separate. It's sufficient, though, to say that the
problems in the two separate markets -- the situations
in the two separate markets were very different. And in
the long-term market, FERC concluded it was important to
maintain the integrity of the contracts, indeed, under a
market-based system, as Justice Alito said, more
important now even than at the time of Mobile, because
you can't have a functioning market based-rate system
without confidence that contracts would be upheld.
In that situation, as this Court suggested
in Verizon, you had sophisticated buyers and
sophisticated sellers dealing in a situation in which
both knew that there was chaos in the spot market, that
there was -- there were structural problems there, and
that there were allegations of manipulation. But those
allegations did not carry over to the, to the long-term
market.
JUSTICE SCALIA: May I ask, I am sure you
understand that a finding that there was no
manipulations that affected these contracts is not the
same as a finding that there was no manipulation by
these sellers in the market.
MR. KNEEDLER: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And there is no such
finding that there was no manipulation?
MR. KNEEDLER: That's correct. But what --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And there is no finding
that there was by these sellers.
MR. KNEEDLER: That's correct. And what the
Commission was basically saying is we are treating the
long-term market situation differently. Some of these
sellers may have been engaged in manipulation in the
short-term market, but FERC was trying to draw a
distinction between the spot market and moving forward
and maintaining the integrity of markets in the
long-term where both the buyers and the sellers were
both buyers and sellers typically.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But, in fact, it didn't get
that articulate. The closest it came to answering my
question, I take it, is at the point to which you
referred me in the joint appendix, no effect on these
contracts?
MR. KNEEDLER: That's correct. We don't
think FERC should have to engage in a market-based
evaluation of possible manipulation in order to hold two
parties, two sophisticated parties to their bargain.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, then what do you say
about the standard of justness? In effect, I think
you're saying it doesn't matter whether these particular
Petitioners manipulated the market creating the
conditions under which these contracts were made at a
price which turned out to be much higher than the spot
price would be later, it's irrelevant. That's your
position, isn't it?
MR. KNEEDLER: The manipulation in the spot
market, we think FERC properly concluded, did not have
to be taken into account --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm not talking about what
FERC said. I'm talking about your position. I think
your position is that even if these people -- even if
these people -- Petitioners manipulated and that created
the -- or contributing to creating the market under
which these contracts were made, that is irrelevant in
looking at the contracts --
MR. KNEEDLER: I think that's something that
FERC would have to decide in this case. But I don't
believe a claim of that sort has been made here. I
believe the claim has --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm not asking what claim
has been made. I want to know -- I want to know what
the government's position is. And as I understand the
government's position is that manipulation by these
Petitioners would be irrelevant to a review under the
public interest standard, is that right?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think that's the best way
to read FERC's decision in this case. And I think
that's --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is that the best way to
read the government's position.
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Here and now in this
courtroom.
MR. KNEEDLER: That FERC -- our position is
that FERC was not required in the public interest, which
looks at the market as a whole not just the two parties
to the contract, it looks to the consequences for the
market as a whole in unraveling particular contracts
because there might have been manipulation somewhere
else. We think FERC, recognizing the importance of
integrity of contracts, could decide that it was going
to look no further than the particular contracts at
issue in deciding whether there was market manipulation.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The case is undertaken.
(Whereupon, at 12:05 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
55:14 adjusting 37:16 amount 25:4 45:7,21,23 bad 9:23 17:3
adopted 17:22 37:7 38:16,24 arising 5:12 53:15
13:24 39:15 45:8,21 46:4,5 articulate 53:8 based 22:15
48:7 affirmance 5:21 48:13 37:8 50:12 bases 38:7
agencies 34:18 anyway 22:25 asking 15:18 basic 30:17
6:21 27:10 2:1 aspect 24:9 basis 11:2 12:4,5
45:16 agreed 47:13 31:9 21:24 bearing 42:9
54:1 agreement applies 8:8 9:5 assure 15:24 began 15:18
agreements 38:2 50:8,9 atom 42:20 3:4,7,9,12 4:10
AL 1:9,13,18 25:18 51:18 attempted 46:12 50:19
26:23 27:7 27:11 attention 8:13 believed 6:4
14:2 51:25 approach 16:1 6:11 9:8 10:12 15:23 16:8
ALJ 49:16,19,20 approaches 14:4 15:20 36:15 37:5
17:9 51:9 approval 9:10 21:23 45:2,5,9 best 41:4 44:18
26:3 allegations 52:9 9:12 45:10 46:21 54:19,22
43:15 52:10 approving 26:9 available 47:16 big 34:5 37:13
allowed 18:18 April 15:10,10 aware 19:7 binding 19:17
48:5 34:15,20 37:16 circumstance 31:6,20 consistent 16:23
43:4,14 46:8 26:18,21 8:5,14,18 consumer 17:10
55:12,13 20:24 21:17 12:10 17:21 21:10
42:1 46:2 claim 29:5 30:4 38:9,17,18 7:6
cert 5:8 30:1 clause 22:14 complain 27:24 12:5
17:21 31:16 39:17 clear 5:17,18,23 complete 20:6 7:7,7,9,10 8:4
52:5 41:13 44:17 25:21 28:7 completely 49:1 9:22 11:10,19
45:17 48:16 30:22 38:5 complying 30:7 12:25 13:21,24
challenge 14:21 clearing 35:6,13 43:25 16:16,20 17:16
22:3 clearly 46:20 conceded 35:9 18:18,20 19:3
51:6 changes 12:6 coexistence concluded 4:18 22:22 24:22
47:5 chaos 39:12,16 come 31:16,17 conclusion 4:23 30:25 31:14,19
chaotic 35:18,24 21:18 condition 30:13 37:4,15,25
9:17 6:10,12,13 22:5,7,11,18 consequence 6:2 contracts 4:16
12:11 7:20 8:11,23 23:22,25 24:3 6:3 28:5 42:22 4:21 5:2 7:2
17:15 12:16 13:6,6 24:13 30:12 43:16 8:19 9:1,11,19
18:19 15:19,21 19:16 33:9 37:21,24 consequences 9:21,25 10:13
20:15 19:24 48:10,11 46:12,19,21 55:5 12:20 13:1,12
14:18,20 34:2 50:8 55:9 35:5 doing 41:3
17:20 Court 1:1,24 4:4decided 9:20 determining Douglas 26:10
4:13,24 5:17 17:25 18:10 34:20 draw 42:23 53:2
19:1 5:20 6:15,17 deciding 51:18 development drawn 48:21
23:11 7:3,15,22 55:11 16:25 draws 42:16
28:8 15:17 17:18 decision 5:7,11 Diego 18:4 drew 4:23
30:21 20:22,23 25:13 5:21 6:5,7,10 difference 20:1 driving 42:13
32:1,3 46:8,13,20 6:10 7:4 8:6,7 37:13 38:3 due 41:18,20
36:14,17 52:4 8:8,14 12:16 41:24 duress 18:13
40:6 courtroom 55:1 15:19,21 16:7 different 10:1 dysfunction
41:9 Court's 4:20 8:1 16:12,24 17:9 30:11 32:23,24 10:4,5 13:8
8:7,8,13 16:24 19:16 37:19 32:25 38:1 16:9,15 22:7
51:1,24 46:10 46:10 54:20 49:1 51:22 22:25 23:5,7,9
53:11 cover 31:4 decisions 4:20 differently 23:14 24:12
54:7,8 CPUC 35:15 5:17 6:15,16 52:25 48:11,12,17
created 44:5 7:15 8:1 15:8 diminish 15:3 51:8
creating 53:19 declared 31:9 directly 12:18 19:18,22,25
28:12 32:4 Dellinger 2:5 disadvantageo... D.C 1:20 2:3,5,7
critical 26:14 15:14,16 17:6 disagree 26:5 E
23:5,13 23:3,9,12,16 18:2 economists
13:5 21:19 24:9 25:6 discovery 50:23 EDWIN 2:2 3:3
20:9 cut 21:20 44:20 demands 11:10 50:24 4:9 50:18
32:14 demonstrate discretion 7:14 effect 22:20
52:20,23 D 49:6 20:13 25:16,18 28:23 30:8,16
D 4:1 denied 4:15 51:17 37:17,25 38:15
45:19 date 11:5 47:20 Department 2:3 5:5 53:10,17
27:9,13 47:11,12 26:19 49:23,24,25 effects 36:11
deal 39:14 44:6 derelict 30:12 dissent 31:7 eight 16:17
39:19 52:6 detail 35:15 42:15,24 43:1 22:14 27:12
December 14:17 24:14,15 27:3 District 1:7,16 35:7
29:7 38:12 54:10 determined 9:17 doctrine 5:19 1:11
entering 16:14 explain 47:7,8 25:15,17,22 31:2
enters 9:10 extensive 15:7 27:4,8,25 follows 34:13
40:14,18 41:13 extraordinary 34:22 35:16 forward 10:4
43:25 F 48:21,21,23,24 10:3 12:16
especially 14:9 fact 10:18 12:5 50:3,11,19 50:24 51:10
3:6,8,11 15:19 18:1 53:13,25 54:3 33:3,7
16:8 28:1 35:20 FERC's 5:21 32:9
15:24 et 1:9,12,18 factor 20:2 50:4 54:20 20:8 39:22
36:18 39:22 41:23 file 33:15 46:18 40:23 41:10
42:13 evaluation factors 4:24 filed 11:6 27:5 front 27:25
28:24 everybody 48:15 final 15:11 full 24:17
33:20 44:9 failed 5:1 30:15 50:10 functioning
38:2 24:5 50:16,25 34:23 51:19 17:18
53:13 ex 37:11 fairly 21:13 finding 11:8,8 fundamentally
48:20 18:22 20:7 23:23 50:1,25 fundamentals
example 20:16 Federal 4:14,19 findings 21:16 further 8:2 25:6
18:20 excessive 5:3 FERC 2:4 3:4 firm 13:11
22:22 exclusive 46:22 4:10,23 5:5,6 first 4:23 21:17 G
26:21 exercise 9:18 5:11,16 6:2,3,6 26:9 28:10 G 4:1
46:17 exercised 9:13 6:11,11,17 7:1 29:2 43:9 50:4 GARRE 6:3
9:2 12:20 exist 19:2 9:3,12 10:17 flaw 12:17 Gas 7:5
27:2 existed 12:21 12:4,18 14:16 flexibility 7:1 general 2:2
expect 35:1 14:19,25 15:1 flukishness 18:23 28:23
44:14 granted 5:20 9:7 34:8,14,25 information 53:22 54:7,17
grapple 29:12 39:1 40:8 41:7infrastructure 48:18 51:1
7:12,17 great 35:7 51:17 hour 37:21,21 50:11
14:15 ground 49:4 huge 38:3 Initially 36:17 J
17:1,7 Group 1:4 4:5 hurdle 38:8 innocent 40:17 J 2:7 3:8 25:10
18:6 guarantee 24:24 hydropower 42:20 44:21 January 15:10
23:17,25 guaranteed 10:9 45:18 job 21:21 22:6
26:10 19:12 inquiry 26:16 joint 8:14,15,22
31:25 guarantees I 43:10,11,11 15:9 22:18
38:16,25 24:22 idea 23:14 insist 7:10 50:22 53:10
37:7 42:25 43:17 7:25 9:18 instability 17:25 28:3
H 22:21 9:21 51:24 judgments
happened 14:22 55:8 interest 4:22 June 15:10
27:1,9 24:23 11:13 16:7 11:8,10,13 4:12 5:6,23 6:9
34:20 hard 51:14 17:21 19:4,19 13:15,23 14:11 6:19 7:12,17
47:7 Harlan's 17:9 20:10 51:2,23 14:25 16:21 9:9 10:10,11
11:22,25 hear 4:4 impropriety interpretation 12:10,22 13:9
16:1,4 heard 29:19 46:2 5:19 6:1 8:7 13:17 14:15
18:7 held 46:20 48:10 improved 29:25 26:2 15:5,13,16,18
23:6,14 help 29:4 30:1 interpreting 17:1,7,9,14,19
27:12,13 helped 33:6 47:1 included 48:13 7:18 18:6,21 19:21
29:4,5 helps 39:7 including 38:21 interpretive 6:4 19:23 20:4,16
32:7 Henry 36:2 inconsistent 6:7 7:24 8:6 20:18 22:5,24
37:2,17 hiding 42:12 30:9 Interstate 7:5 23:4,10,13,17
38:15 high 20:19 31:15 incorrect 5:20 intervening 6:17 23:25 24:6,20
47:6 55:9 40:7,9 43:6 incumbent 49:5 41:15 25:4,5,9,12,15
42:22 43:5 7:18 23:21 27:7,17 28:14
34:9 history 28:12 indicates 37:19 34:22 29:14,19 30:3
6:2 28:11 hold 11:10 53:14 infected 43:13 51:6 31:12,24 32:8
honestly 48:23 43:15 involved 12:11 32:17,21 33:2
Honor 29:7 influenced irrelevant 24:8 34:11,19 35:17
52:7 local 37:1 42:9 mandate 15:23 35:18,21,24
40:14,25 know 16:15,19 44:20 manipulated 36:4,6,11,19
42:18,19 19:6,10,14,24 Lockyer 12:16 9:14 45:15 37:20 38:6,19
20:23 21:6 long 12:8 19:12 53:19 54:5 38:20 40:11,13
45:20 23:20 24:19 20:7 21:11 manipulating 40:18 41:14,25
28:14 33:17 27:23 36:3 44:18 42:5 43:2,11
49:3,4 34:2 35:17,23 41:23 42:6 manipulation 43:11,12,12,13
37:22 39:8 longer 18:3 43:6 9:18 11:9,15 43:19 44:2,19
51:13,25 41:17,18 42:7 longstanding 11:16,18 13:20 45:3,15,24
42:15 44:9,11 8:18 13:25 14:1,9,9 46:2,22 47:2
54:2 51:13 54:14,14 long-term 14:18 18:14 19:9 47:15,24 48:4
knowledge 14:20 15:2 20:1 24:5,18 48:12 49:17,18
24:17 16:4,11 18:5 35:10 36:5 49:20,20 50:25
41:1,2,5 lack 21:24 23:11 35:19,22 42:1,4,6 43:2 52:25 53:2,3
53:17 lacked 25:18 35:25 36:6,10 43:14,19 45:4 53:19,25 54:6
Laughter 28:16 52:10,25 53:5 49:17,21 50:1 19:9 26:20
law 42:16 looked 5:5 44:12 51:8,8 52:9,15 49:21 50:6,6
33:8 leading 45:3 looking 54:8 52:19 53:1,14 51:3,21,22
43:21 led 13:17 looks 44:1 55:4 53:24 54:16 53:4
lieu 26:12 33:10 9:13,14,18 26:1,5,9,11,15
4:8,9,12 lifting 45:5,10 luck 37:22 11:15,16,18 29:23 39:18
6:9,16,24 lightly 8:20 lumps 44:10 12:7,9,17,24 44:4,24 45:2,5
9:16 limit 14:5 13:1,3,7,8,10 45:9,10 51:25
limited 5:12 M 13:20,25 14:1 53:13
7:15 26:25 main 17:8 41:9 14:2,19 15:2,3 Massey 31:7
12:15,22 31:1 49:9 15:12 16:9,10 Massey's 31:20
limiting 28:22 maintain 51:24 16:18 18:14,24 massive 42:12
29:2,19 30:25 maintained 9:22 19:14,18 20:6 matter 1:23 6:1
25:1 31:22 maintaining 21:3,8,24,25 7:14 10:1 20:5
line 33:12 17:20 53:4 22:8,8,9,12 24:22 53:18
52:17,20 lines 48:20 majority 31:8 23:1,23 24:11 55:14
53:12,24 literally 16:13 making 21:11 26:11,14,16 mean 6:25 7:23
little 37:2 24:13 32:11 27:14,15,20 12:11 16:16
live 5:7 37:18 42:9 28:4,12,25 19:9 20:5 23:2
34:11,13 Morgan 1:3 4:5 O overcharged 41:19
38:15 8:16 33:10,13 O 3:1 4:1 17:11 period 31:15
40:9 33:14,15,16,25 obligation 39:25 overcome 21:13 35:9 40:7
23:7 morning 15:17 obverse 43:22 16:21 35:8
43:10,12 move 18:4 occasionally oversight 12:17 permissible 26:2
moving 53:3 41:15 permission
34:17 32:6 47:3 offhand 31:3 P 4:1 Petitioner 1:5
Oh 6:11 page 3:2 8:17 Petitioners 1:14
45:18 8:2 51:16,19 38:11 part 18:16 26:7 phrase 29:15
48:21 opinion 17:19 14:10 21:14 34:15
41:10 51:7 16:10,13 19:6 15:17 25:13
35:6,12 Ninth 5:7,18,24 8:24 24:15 31:16 11:22 12:1
20:22 52:1 12:15 13:5,6 16:19 41:3,15,22,24 32:9,22 38:7
16:12 19:16,24 15:14 25:10 51:12 53:15,15 53:9
7:10 12:13 29:22 36:10 50:4,11 party 7:8 22:2,3 policy 8:18 15:4
32:5 53:14 22:3,14 27:23 portfolio 34:3
non-compliance original 33:22 paying 17:17 7:13 14:16,23
45:15 noted 31:25 45:16,16 37:20 40:15 39:2 46:5
18:7 32:2 number 20:2 outset 9:4 percent 5:25 54:15,16,23
33:14 47:23 overarching perfect 26:13 55:2
50:16 pricings 32:6 14:11,25 16:21 ratepayers 9:1 14:21 18:8
principle 29:3 20:11 32:13 45:17 39:9 40:1
6:18 7:4 principles 28:22 punished 34:12 18:7 22:19 reasoning 40:2,3
12:3 priority 21:18 purchasing 4:16 23:6 25:20 reasons 10:7
13:1,3 probably 38:7 5:3 26:12 27:3,7 31:5
problem 18:17 purpose 17:18 27:14 29:9 rebuttal 3:10
16:16 19:14 28:19 put 45:22 30:18,20 31:9 25:3 50:15,18
21:18,25 31:13 puzzled 42:18 32:2,3,5,7,19 recognize 16:1
24:25 problems 15:11 puzzling 17:2 32:22 34:16 51:2
29:8,10 51:5,21 52:8 p.m 55:13 35:10 36:3 recognized
45:11 proceedings 40:22 42:22 17:19
14:22 50:24 Q 43:5 46:24 recognizing
processes 16:23 11:1 12:1 13:5 reach 7:18,19 reconsider
producers 46:16 46:6 53:9 readjusting reduced 35:12
44:15 profit 36:20 quote 46:21 realized 22:11 33:11
44:3 46:3 quoted 8:16 really 38:16 referred 48:11
29:24 44:24 raise 21:9 14:2 33:25 reformulation
prompted 31:1 rampant 12:13 44:4 regime 12:21
23:14 45:6 10:17 14:20 27:14 29:9 regulatory 4:14
26:21 protect 17:10 21:23 26:1,5 30:18,21 31:8 12:20 18:2
protected 8:20 26:10,15,24 31:15 34:16,24 46:25 48:14
37:19 protective 33:16 28:1 29:24 36:6,9,24 reject 50:1
protects 40:21 31:16,17 33:10 38:12 39:4,14 rejected 8:22
21:9 provided 35:4 39:17 44:4,24 46:20,24 47:5 relevant 24:13
24:10,11 public 1:7,16 45:2,5,9,10 47:9,10,18,23 50:7
31:11 4:6,6,22 7:25 ratemaking 48:3 49:2 50:7 reliable 21:12
37:12,14 8:3,12 11:7,10 27:9 31:18 50:8 reliance 38:2
14:8 18:11 re-examination 36:16 41:16 41:11 42:4
41:13 35:2,3 38:14 right 6:15,24 47:10,12,17 21:13
41:14 50:16 11:25 17:5,13 49:3,11,15 shown 9:23 15:9
26:11 Respondent 2:4 23:16 24:1,14 second 28:13,15 side 32:24 38:22
3:4 4:10 25:24 25:5 33:23 48:6 39:13 46:9,13
Respondents 52:17 54:18 see 13:12 28:21 7:4 8:1,8 9:2
Respondent's 23:15 seeking 17:16 simply 27:5
restrict 15:20 runs 17:11 seller 9:10,13 13:22 15:1
44:18 48:4 S 17:3,4,16 46:11 47:1
24:1,5,7 retroactive 46:14 17:22 21:1,2,6 small 46:16
30:5 10:12,20 11:2 sake 41:4 21:24 40:18 snap 37:19
31:2 Retroactively satisfied 4:25 52:22 53:1,5,6 1:17 4:5,7 34:7
retrospective satisfy 8:3 34:7 Solicitor 2:2
14:11 44:20 23:18 26:20 sensible 28:25 37:17 42:1
review 5:21 27:20 30:24 sent 32:16 43:1 49:12
13:24 18:10 36:8 37:17,25 51:3,15,20,21 52:5,6 53:15
30:8,16 54:17 40:2,6 41:2,5 service 1:12 32:15
reviewed 50:22 44:10 46:1 34:21 sort 12:17 34:1
46:23 revision 20:12 52:24 53:18 9:8 21:14 28:8 43:10 44:24
revoke 10:17 Scalia 5:23 6:19 shortage 10:8,8 source 44:1,2
revoked 10:23 13:9 20:16,18 short-term 13:17 27:17
rewrites 37:25 23:13 24:20 show 5:1 38:8 29:11,14,19
32:8,17 33:15 superfluous thing 36:9 42:10 49:23
33:2 start 25:14 41:8 42:11 totally 42:20
37:6 state 18:1 50:15 supply 16:11 things 14:6 26:6 43:13 51:15
39:6 stated 31:7 19:11 36:21 48:14 trade 51:6
43:23 statement 22:25 support 2:4 3:5 51:5 traditional
45:20 States 1:1,24 4:11 11:23 think 6:25 7:23 31:10 32:6
48:8 statute 7:18 23:23 50:20,25 8:5 10:25 13:5 34:21 47:3
50:14 25:18 30:9 suppose 26:6 13:14,17,22 traditionally
54:2 34:16 40:21 Supreme 1:1,24 17:8 19:25 43:9
41:8,8 46:23 7:15,21 26:6,14 28:7 transmission
51:1 Stevens 4:3,12 30:24 32:23,24 39:5,7,13,24 transposing
16:10,18 43:4,15 51:13 sustaining 40:3 45:8,14 46:9 triennial 10:18
19:9 55:12 system 8:9 9:3 47:14,21 48:2 12:8
24:11 stood 16:12 51:25 52:2 53:13,17,25 trouble 40:25
36:6 stop 33:2 54:3,9,19,20 44:1
37:11,14 strain 5:2 T 55:8 true 18:9
38:6 stressed 7:3 T 3:1,1 thinks 27:11 trying 42:5 44:3
49:19,20 strictly 45:6 take 14:5 16:7 47:8 48:24 53:2
51:3,6 strongly 18:4 16:18 44:10 third 31:6 Tuesday 1:21
53:3,21 struck 51:4 53:9 thought 5:6,11 turmoil 18:24
structural 51:5 taken 35:11 54:1 6:6 7:12,13 20:6
17:20 studies 15:8 tariff 9:5 11:20 25:18 27:12 turned 53:21
24:1,4,7 subject 16:20 tariffs 39:19 37:23 48:23,25 two 6:14,16 7:24
40:13 46:14 tell 32:25 40:4 three 4:24 29:20 8:10 17:12
submitted 55:14 telling 34:2 46:1 29:21 18:5 26:6 31:5
13:15 15:8 term 18:3 19:12 time 6:6 7:11 51:21,22 53:14
25:20,22 subset 45:25 27:5 9:1 13:21 53:15 55:4
31:8 substantial 7:2 terms 19:17 14:14 16:17 typically 53:6
39:9 sufficient 40:3 20:11,25 22:20 17:12 21:18
47:5 51:20 22:23 24:16 25:1,4 27:21 U
49:1,2 sufficiently terrorism 42:20 35:4,18 38:9 ultimate 41:6
51:18 46:10 test 48:17 39:4,18 42:16 42:25
54:18 suggested 34:1 Texaco 46:10 49:10 52:1 ultimately 35:1
33:10,14 suggesting 25:12 34:25 29:5 45:22 umbrella 39:8
41:11 34:11 46:7 50:13 today 24:22 underlying 7:3
49:23 suggestion themes 17:8 29:24 45:7 understand
13:21 theories 32:25 46:13 49:22 10:10 13:9
31:3,4 v 1:6,15 47:14 Z 2003 40:13 45:5
valuable 19:20 West 49:10 zone 8:25 2005 30:2
41:17,21 variety 10:6 we're 28:15 2006 35:15
46:4 36:2 34:14 45:13 $ 2008 1:21
54:15 Verizon 52:5 we've 50:22 $105 16:17 206 14:22 45:10
victim 41:12 wholesale 4:16 $300 16:18
25:15 14:20 15:6 42:12 $74 32:3,10,22 4 3:5
volatile 19:21 words 40:16 36:15
19:25 20:3 33:25 37:1 06-1457 1:6 16:24
70 27:12 34:17
1:7,16 4:6,7 74 32:14,14
vulnerable 39:17 46:17,19
25:9,10,12 100-day 50:23
walk 7:9 30:6,17,20 12:05 55:13
3:6,11 15:14 32:19,23 33:5 1245 8:15
35:21 37:8,9 36:23 37:6 1564 8:22
47:20 47:22 54:14,14 40:20 41:7,16 1572 8:15
48:24 24:16,16 33:3 43:17 44:11,17 1589 50:21
1:18,20 2:3,5,7 47:19 48:7,16 17 8:17
17:11 23:17 50:3 1956 17:12
36:25 X 2
37:1 38:12 54:19,22 x 1:2,19 2000 4:17 5:13
44:20 weather 40:12 10:6 14:17
41:18 42:1,10 Y 18:3 31:25
27:5 went 21:2 years 5:13 6:17 2000-2001 45:4
35:9
