IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
VIRGINIA, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1082
DAVID LEE MOORE. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, January 14, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
STEPHEN B. McCULLOUGH, ESQ., Deputy State Solicitor
General, Richmond, Va; on behalf of the Petitioner.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
Petitioner.
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
STEPHEN B. McCULLOUGH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.,
On behalf of the United States,
supporting the Petitioner 17
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
STEPHEN B. McCULLOUGH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in 06-1082, Virginia v. Moore.
Mr. McCullough.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN B. McCULLOUGH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. McCULLOUGH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
This Court has again and again held that an
arrest is constitutionally reasonable if the officers
have probable cause to believe a suspect has committed a
crime. The Court has found that this standard
represents the best compromise between the needs of the
citizens and the duty of the government to combat crime.
While the States are free to build additional procedures
on this constitutional bedrock, when they do so these
additional procedures are matters of State law. They do
not change the constitutional standard.
The Court below erred in substituting this
clear, established, uniform, time-tested standard for a
standard that has none of those virtues.
First, it is undeniable that if State law
can raise the constitutional bar, that it will lead to
widespread differences on the exact same facts, on the
exact same crime, not only across State lines, but also
within a particular jurisdiction.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. McCullough --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If this officer had
complied with the State law, that is he had issued a
summons, then you agree that the exclusionary rule would
apply if he went ahead and searched.
MR. McCULLOUGH: That's correct. If he had
issued a summons, Knowles would apply and the evidence
would be excluded.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So would you explain the
logic to saying that when the police violate State law,
then the evidence can come in; but when they comply with
State law, it can't.
MR. McCULLOUGH: Your Honor, the rationale
of Knowles was that the officer did not engage in any
extended contact with the suspect and that there was no
need to gather evidence.
But where from a constitutional sense there
is a full-fledged arrest, then the particular rationale
of Knowles doesn't apply; and I don't think the -- we're
asking the Court to embrace violations of State law;
we're asking the Court to recognize that when a State
goes above and beyond what the Constitution requires,
that the remedies for those violations should be left to
the States.
And Virginia has provided a number of those
remedies; but here the officer did make a full custodial
arrest.
JUSTICE BREYER: Did you -- excuse me,
sorry, General.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, you say he made a
custodial arrest. Did he search the defendant at the
time of the arrest?
MR. McCULLOUGH: No. There was a
miscommunication between the officers --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And did he search him at
the place of the arrest?
MR. McCULLOUGH: No.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, how can this be
incident to an arrest?
MR. McCULLOUGH: Your Honor, the fact of the
arrest was uncontested, and the law doesn't require --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the search is
unrelated to the arrest, as I understand the facts.
MR. McCULLOUGH: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It took place later in a
different place.
MR. McCULLOUGH: Justice Stevens, the search
was related to the arrest. What happened at the scene
was the officer made a pat-down and assumed the other
officer had conducted the search. When they got to the
hotel, they realized there had been a mix-up. But he
had not yet been taken to the station and booked and so
the rationale supporting the search incident to the
arrest is present.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, why is it present if
he's not -- he searched when he wasn't arrested? I
don't understand. Could they wait a week and do it?
MR. McCULLOUGH: The arrest did not cease at
that point, Your Honor. In United States v. Edwards,
the Court recognized that at times the search will not
proceed immediately upon arrest.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It's an ongoing arrest, is
it?
MR. McCULLOUGH: Well, it's an arrest --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Incident to an ongoing
arrest? That's kind of a new concept.
MR. McCULLOUGH: It's an arrest until he is
released or denied bail. But I would also add that the
timing issue was simply not raised below. And so
there's no reason at this juncture to raise an issue
that the litigants chose not to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. McCullough, the
proposition that you're arguing, does it apply at the
Federal level as well? Suppose -- suppose I think that
my neighbor next door is growing marijuana and I have
probable cause to believe that, all right?
So I go in and search his house; and sure
enough, there is marijuana. And I bring it to the
police's attention, and they eventually arrest him.
Is that lawful search?
MR. McCULLOUGH: If there is State action --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm a State actor, I guess.
You know --
(Laughter.)
MR. McCULLOUGH: If you have State actors --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You know, a Supreme Court
Justice should not be --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- should not be living
next door to somebody growing marijuana. It doesn't
seem right.
MR. McCULLOUGH: That's not a smart
neighbor.
(Laughter.)
MR. McCULLOUGH: If you have State action
and you enter into someone's home, then the Constitution
affords a heightened level of protection. But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't dance around. Is it
-- is it rendered an unreasonable search by the fact
that I'm not a law enforcement officer at all?
MR. McCULLOUGH: I don't think the fact
of -- no. The fact that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So any Federal employee can
go crashing around conducting searches and seizures?
MR. McCULLOUGH: So long --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So long as he has probable
cause?
MR. McCULLOUGH: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's fantastic.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you really think that?
MR. McCULLOUGH: I think if there is State
action, it doesn't matter that you're wearing a badge or
that you've gone through the police academy.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or that you are an
administrative law judge at the, you know, Bureau of
Customs? It doesn't matter?
MR. McCULLOUGH: I think that's right. That
if you have -- if the State --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about a janitor?
You're a janitor, a federally employed janitor.
MR. McCULLOUGH: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: His neighbor is growing
marijuana, and he's just as offended as a Supreme Court
Justice would be. Can he conduct a search?
MR. McCULLOUGH: I think if he's doing it on
behalf of the State, the answer is yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wow.
MR. McCULLOUGH: But in terms of the
Federal-State distinction, Your Honor, I think what
we're advocating for is the uniform standard that this
Court has embraced before, that there should not be a
difference between a Federal officer on a State facility
who is authorized under the Assimilated Crimes Act to
arrest for Virginia laws and a Virginia officer who is a
hundred feet away with making an unconstitutional arrest
under the holding below when --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you agree that
there was no probable cause to arrest, given the State
statute?
MR. McCULLOUGH: Your Honor --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're talking about
probable cause to believe that he committed an offense.
MR. McCULLOUGH: That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But was there probable
cause to arrest?
MR. McCULLOUGH: Well, the State court found
there was no -- none of the exceptions in the statute
applied. But when the Court has used the term "probable
cause to arrest," it has never required a two-step
analysis of, first, probable cause to believe a crime
had been committed, and then probable cause to arrest.
It's always been, in this Court's cases, a single
inquiry: Has there been probable cause?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could he -- could this
officer have gotten a warrant to arrest Moore? Could he
-- is it -- oh, there's an offense going on under
Virginia law, I'm going to check with -- call in to see
if I can get a warrant. Could he have gotten a warrant?
MR. McCULLOUGH: Well, under the facts of
this case he could have, but it would have caused a
prolonged detention of the suspect.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How could he -- how could
he have gotten a warrant to arrest when it's
a nonarrestable offense?
MR. McCULLOUGH: Well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He couldn't -- would a
judge have told this police officer -- they have a
call-in procedure, call the judge. You want to -- you
need to issue a warrant to arrest him for driving with a
suspended license, but that's not an arrestable offense.
MR. McCULLOUGH: Your Honor, it is an
arrestable offense under certain circumstances. And so
the officer is left with each arrest to make a
discretionary call.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did these officers think
this -- those circumstances exist?
MR. McCULLOUGH: The officers did not --
their only testimony was it was their prerogative. And
unfortunately they did not then unpack that explanation
to say why they thought one of the exceptions applied.
What the State argued below and the State
court rejected was that he was alone in a car with this
large angry dog. There was no passenger that he could
switch places with, and so if they write him a summons,
logically, what is he going to do? He doesn't live
anywhere nearby. As soon as they leave the scene, he's
going to get right back in his car and drive away.
Now the State court rejected that, but that
illustrates the fact that under this statute the
officers have to make discretionary calls as to when
these exceptions apply. Is the defendant --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe we could say that in
this, in these unique circumstances, where the officers
could not let the fellow drive off without a license, it
was not unreasonable to arrest him, but in some other
situation where they had no arrest authority it would
be.
MR. McCULLOUGH: Your --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you know, let's
assume that the stop was not based on some, some
deficiency in his license or some deficiency in the
car -- I don't know what else it could be -- like, he
had been going too fast, okay? And it's just a
misdemeanor. He was five miles over the speed limit.
Now, in that situation you couldn't say, as
you've said here, gee, if they just let him go, he'd
still be driving without a license; they had to arrest
him; they had no choice. In that situation, he wouldn't
necessarily be going above the speed limit. Would that
be -- why couldn't you say it was reasonable here, but
it wouldn't be reasonable there?
MR. McCULLOUGH: Well, what we're asking the
Court to do is to let the States regulate this arrest
authority.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If that's the argument
you're making, then don't bring forward the argument
that they couldn't let him go because he'd be in
violation of the law. If you want us to make that
narrow a holding, I guess we can. Is that what you want
us to do?
MR. McCULLOUGH: All we're asking the Court
to do is to affirm the probable cause standard that has
-- without any further balancing, that the balancing has
occurred when --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, you're asking us to
balance. You're asking us to say, after all, in this
case if they hadn't arrested he would have been
violating the law as soon as they let him go.
MR. McCULLOUGH: No, I'm simply explain --
what I was trying to so was to explain that as a matter
of state law these officers have to make these
discretionary calls. If that then becomes the
constitutional standard, that instead of a simple
probable cause finding you have to get into every
discretionary call by the officer, that it -- it
turns actually --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You say this was not
unlawful under Virginia law, then, because of the factor
you brought forth?
MR. McCULLOUGH: No, Your Honor. That was
adversely litigated against us in the State court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't know what
you're talking about a discretionary call. It wasn't a
discretionary call. He couldn't arrest the person.
MR. McCULLOUGH: Well -- but the problem is,
if the standard then becomes a two-step probable cause,
where we have to figure out as a matter of
constitutional law whether the officer guessed right in
terms of one of these exceptions, then every
discretionary judgment in the field becomes the occasion
for constitutional --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But suppose it works
the other way. If Virginia has a law saying you can
arrest anybody you want on our highways, but, you know,
here's what the offenses are, the officers did not have
probable cause to think a crime had been committed, but
it was they had probable cause to arrest, I suppose
under the Respondent's theory that would be all right.
MR. McCULLOUGH: It -- I mean, it certainly
would flow from that. So I think, given the
multitude --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask this question:
You would argue it doesn't matter whether it violated
State or Federal law; it's a question of Federal law on
probable cause. But does the character of the crime for
which the person is being arrested have any relevance to
the question whether the search is reasonable? For
example, supposing he is arrested for a tax offense;
could you go ahead and search him incident to that
arrest?
MR. McCULLOUGH: The search incident to
arrest is a bright-line rule, Your Honor, that this
Court has promulgated in Robinson.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The answer is yes, they
could search?
MR. McCULLOUGH: I'm sorry. Yes, the answer
is yes, that if a crime has been committed the
bright-line rule permits the officer to search the
suspect for officer safety as well as --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Even though the rationale
for the search incident to arrest doesn't apply?
MR. McCULLOUGH: What the -- yes, because
what the Court said in Robinson was: We're not
interested in delving into case-by-case litigation as to
how dangerous this person was and how -- and whether
there was a likelihood of evidence being found --
JUSTICE ALITO: Why would the rationale not
apply in that situation? Are you accepting the
proposition that anybody who's arrested for a tax
offense is not a danger to the arresting officer?
Haven't there been some pretty dangerous people arrested
over the years for tax offenses?
(Laughter.)
MR. McCULLOUGH: I agree with that. I'm
arguing that it's a bright-line rule and that if someone
is arrested for a crime, tax or otherwise, it's not the
nature of the crime --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but you're also
arguing, as I understand it, that the -- that the
search, even in the case of the tax arrest, does fall
within the rationale of search incident to an arrest
because one of those two rationales is officer safety.
Isn't that your point?
MR. McCULLOUGH: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. So you reject the
premise of the question then? The premise of the
question was that the search incident to the arrest in
the tax case is outside the rationale of searches
incident to an arrest; and your position is it's not
outside it.
MR. McCULLOUGH: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. McCULLOUGH: This Court has crafted a
bright-line rule -- it has not distinguished between
types of offenses; it doesn't have to be a violent
offense; it could be a white-collar offense -- that
across the board there is virtue to having this
bright-line rule that permits the officer to search
incident to a lawful arrest. And in Robinson the Court
noted that a lawful arrest is a -- that it met a
constitutionally lawful arrest, one made with probable
cause. This arrest was made with probable cause. The
search incident to the arrest was lawful.
I would ask the Court if I could keep my
remaining time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Dreeben?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The States and the Federal Government may
for a variety of reasons enact restrictions on officer
authority that exceed the requirements of the Fourth
Amendment as this Court has articulated them.
When such State law or Federal law
extra-constitutional restrictions are violated, it is a
matter for the government that enacted them to determine
what remedy appropriately flows from that violation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does the person making the
arrest at least have to have some arrest authority?
MR. DREEBEN: This Court has never --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or will a janitor do the
job? A janitor at the Justice Department becomes imbued
with the mission of the Department and he goes around
arresting people or searching people.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, certainly,
Justice Scalia, such an individual wouldn't have
positive law authority to engage in an arrest.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just as this person here
didn't have positive law authority to engage in an
arrest.
MR. DREEBEN: The question would then be
whether that means that it's automatically a
constitutional violation. I think in some situations
even a governmental official can act in a private
capacity by acting outside the boundaries of that
individual's responsibility.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but he was purporting
to act in an official capacity. And he did, indeed,
give the marijuana to the officials at the Justice
Department.
MR. DREEBEN: And if you assume that the
Court would have two options. It could either
federalize some sort of an amorphous requirement that
there must be law enforcement authority in an official
in order for that official to engage in Fourth Amendment
activity, or it could hold that, what I think is the
more reasonable approach, which is that the bedrock
requirements of the Fourth Amendment protect against
arbitrariness, and the crucial one here is the existence
of probable cause based on the facts to believe that the
individual has violated a law.
If that criteria is met, it is not
constitutionally unreasonable, absent where an
extraordinary intrusion for the individual's liberty or
privacy interests to be compromised. It may be the most
flagrant violation of departmental regulations in the
world, and in that case the department that has those
regulations can take action, just as here Virginia says
if you violate the arrestable offense rule under
Virginia law, the consequence is not to exclude
evidence. Virginia will not exclude evidence under its
own State law for a violation of this provision.
But it does say under State law that a
person can resist an unlawful arrest, The officer can be
sued for engaging in an unlawful arrest under State law,
and that the officer can be fired or disciplined. And
those are the sanctions that the State has chosen to do.
Now, what the Virginia Supreme Court has
done is come along and say, even though you do not
intend this rule to trigger the exclusionary rule under
Virginia law, you have no choice. As a matter of
Federal constitutional law, if Virginia decides to
exceed the constitutional minimum as this Court
announced in Atwater and place additional restrictions
on the arrest authority, it must pay a constitutional
price of having the evidence excluded if that rule is
violated.
At the outset, it's clear that imposing such
a Fourth Amendment rule would do nothing other than
discourage the States from providing additional
restrictions as a matter of their own State's law that
may serve to protect citizen privacy interests above the
floor that this Court has identified as required by the
Fourth Amendment.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If you're right,
Mr. Dreeben, then the Court gave a false signal when it
GVR'd in Lovelace, in the Lovelace case, the person who
was drinking in public, it GVR'd in light of Knowles.
MR. DREEBEN: I don't know that it gave a
false signal, Justice Ginsburg, but a GVR doesn't
indicate this Court's disposition of the merits once all
of the arguments are presented to it. And, admittedly,
I think neither side is able to point to a case that
squarely addressed and conclusively resolved the issue
that's before this Court.
What the Court has done, I think, under
related issues under Fourth Amendment law is announce
pretty clearly that the fact that a State has either
renounced an interest in taking a particular law
enforcement action that it could otherwise
constitutionally take or positively prohibited a law
enforcement action does not mean that the action is
unconstitutional.
As long ago as the Cooper v. California
case, the Court dealt with the situation where an
officer was not authorized to undertake an inventory
search, and the California courts treat it as a
violation of their own law.
This Court said it was still a reasonable
search under the Fourth Amendment; and unless
Respondent -- excuse me, unless -- well, Respondent
concludes that there should be a different Fourth
Amendment rule for searches than procedures, Cooper
stands for the proposition that a violation of State law
does not ipso facto equate to a violation of the Federal
Constitution.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we rule for Respondent
in this case, would we have to reexamine the holding in
California v. Greenwood?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Kennedy.
California v. Greenwood is the next case in the line
where the Court recognized that California had made it
illegal to conduct garbage searches. And you could make
the same argument that Respondent is making here today:
That California had renounced any interest in conducting
garbage searches, therefore there's nothing on the State
side of the line to balance against the individual's
invasion of privacy, and therefore the State should
lose. And this Court held precisely the opposite in
California v. Greenwood, finding that it was
constitutionally reasonable to engage in the garbage
search because there was no federally recognized
expectation of privacy, even though the State had
decided to go further and grant an additional layer of
protection to its citizens.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There could not have been
a warrant -- a grant-- a judge could not have given a
warrant for arrest on these charges.
MR. DREEBEN: I'm venturing a little bit
outside of my expertise under State law, but I think
that that's correct. Because State law provided that
this was not an arrestable offense unless one of the
exceptions to the offense existed.
And I should note that one of the offenses
here -- excuse me -- one of the exceptions here is that
a court of general jurisdiction could have entered an
exemption from the arrestable offense rule and then
officers within that jurisdiction would have been
constitutionally and under State law --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How often and under what
circumstances is that Virginia -- Virginia law rule? I
mean, when does a general district court give permission
for a custodial arrest in a certain class of cases?
MR. DREEBEN: I know that it has done it. I
don't know that there are any restrictions on when it
would do it. The point, I think, of giving the general
courts the authority to do this is that these kinds of
laws are not necessarily enacted, as Respondent posits,
to be supplementary protection for privacy. They do not
necessarily represent a judgment that law enforcement
officers should never bring people in for minor traffic
misdemeanors. They may represent a judgment that law
enforcement officers should be out on the beat policing
more important crimes and it's a waste of social
resources and scarce police resources to have them
bringing people downtown for these kinds of offenses.
In a particular jurisdiction, law
enforcement may make a case that actually it's important
enough to deter various traffic violations and to ensure
that the individuals show up, that officers should have
plenary authority to make arrests.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I should know this, but do
we defer to State law in determining the lawfulness of
the time before arraignment in the context of
confessions, the McNabb-Mallory rule?
MR. DREEBEN: The McNabb-Mallory rule --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Which is Federal.
MR. DREEBEN: -- is uniquely Federal. The
closest analog -- and this may be what Your Honor has in
mind -- is that in the County of Riverside case the
Court set a 48-hour outside limit for when you have to
bring an arrested individual before a magistrate for a
probable cause hearing. Under Respondent's position --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, was there any
indication in that case that if the State had a shorter
period, they would --
MR. DREEBEN: No, and that's precisely, I
think, the point. All of the rules that this Court has
announced under the Fourth Amendment, the search
incident to arrest rule, which is triggered as a
bright-line rule without regard to whether the specifics
of the case support it, under Respondent's theory
Virginia could overrule that by saying officers shall
not conduct a search incident to arrest without a
specific exigency in that case. States could overrule
within their own jurisdictions the Federal rule that
this Court announced in Riverside. It could say that
individuals have to be brought before a magistrate
within 12 hours or they have to be released. And under
Respondent's theory that you absorb State law into the
reasonableness inquiry, this Court's Federal court
decision would be overruled. And most directly here,
Atwater would be overruled with respect to
non-arrestable offenses if Respondent's position is
correct that when the State has said that we don't want
to undertake an arrest for a minor offense, therefore,
there's no longer any State interest in undertaking the
arrest.
The reality is that this Court has balanced
as a matter of Fourth Amendment law what is
constitutionally necessary as a uniform Federal matter
to protect people against arbitrary law enforcement
action, and it's drawn the line at probable cause. And
as this Court said in Whren, absent rare circumstances
when probable cause exists, a search or seizure is
reasonable.
And the kind of rare circumstances that the
Court gave the example of in Whren were heightened
intrusions on individual privacy or liberties such as
surgery to remove evidence or an unannounced entry into
a home. We don't have anything like that here and the
standard Federal rule should govern.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Dreeben.
Mr. Goldstein.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The notion that the proud men who framed the
Constitution would believe it reasonable to go out and
arrest someone for a non-arrestable offense and not only
do that, but having committed that trespass at common
law, to further search them, is I think an extreme
proposition and one that they would not have accepted.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you think they would
accept arresting somebody for not wearing a seat belt?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Your Honor, I do --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me we've
crossed that bridge with Atwater.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, Your Honor, I disagree,
for the reason that -- and there are obviously -- I'm
not here to tell the Court what its own precedents mean.
But Atwater makes quite clear that at common law this
was something that was subject to legislate ive
override, and that's what was reasonable at common law
when the Constitution was framed. And that is,
legislatures sometimes said that you could arrest and
sometimes said that you couldn't.
But two things were undisputable, I think,
and that is when you did arrest illegally that was
unreasonable --
JUSTICE BREYER: The particular illegal
arrest here, to bring this down to earth a little bit,
is I take it they arrested him because he had a
suspended -- he was driving without a good license?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So that Virginia law
says if you stop somebody, arrest him -- if you stop
somebody, you know he doesn't have a license to drive,
you can arrest him if you think he's going to continue
driving? Can't you?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So the policemen
here, according to you and I guess the Virginia court,
made a misjudgment. He thought this guy might still
drive somewhere or he might have thought it or a
policeman in similar circumstances might have thought
it.
So Virginia says if, in fact, policemen, you
stop somebody for suspended -- for driving without a
license, and you make a mistake, you arrest him, we
don't think that's a big deal, because who knows if he's
going to continue to drive. We don't even suspend. We
don't even suspend. We don't even suppress the
evidence. That's Virginia.
So if Virginia isn't going to suppress the
evidence because they think it's not a big deal to make,
for the policeman to make a mistake as to whether a
person who's driving without a license will keep driving
once the policeman goes away, why do you think Thomas
Jefferson and everybody else thought that that was such
a big deal that the evidence had to be suppressed?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: For a few reasons. First,
Virginia does take this quite seriously. The officer
can be fired for violating the statute. That's no small
thing.
The second is I wouldn't assume that
Virginia believes and the Virginia legislature believed
that the evidence would not be suppressed, because for
reasons that I'll explain in a minute the Virginia
legislature was triggering a long line of its court
cases that say if you arrest someone for a
non-arrestable offense, the Fourth Amendment is
violated, and the application of the exclusionary rule
has never been questioned in that context.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought it's
questioned in your footnote 13 in your brief. You seem
to suggest that the exclusionary rule is not at issue in
this case.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's right. I don't
question its application, but neither does Virginia,
Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So - so we should
write an opinion saying we're not saying that it was
correct to -- we're not saying that it was correct to
exclude the evidence in this case?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's -- I think that
that's right. That also happened in California v.
Greenwood, you may recall, Mr. Chief Justice, where
there was some discussion at oral argument about would
we believe the exclusionary rule should be applied here.
That question had not been preserved. That case is on
remand in the California Supreme Court.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the difference
between this and Whren? That is, in Whren the arrest
violated a D.C. regulation that says a plainclothes
officer cannot approach a car except in immediate cases
of immediate danger. And in Whren we said that isn't
such a big deal and we don't think the Fourth Amendment
turns on that kind of triviality.
All right. If it doesn't turn on that kind
of arrest procedure triviality, is how we characterized
it there, how is this any any different?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Whren is different in
several different ways. The first is that that was a
challenge to the stop, not the search incident to
arrest. The claim was that the officers under a local
D.C. Government regulation did not have the power to
make a traffic stop because there was a local regulation
that said if you're not in uniform and if you're not in
a police car, a marked car, you shouldn't make those
traffic stops.
So, it's different on a couple of different
actions. The nature of the constitutional challenge,
the nature of the law that's being evoked, the local
regulation rather than legislation, I think, are the
principal ones.
Here we're dealing with something quite
fundamental, and I haven't gotten to this
Court's precedents applying the common law rule that I
described at the beginning, so if I could do and then
compare Whren. Post -- define the common law, every
since Weeks, which is the first case of this Court to
recognize the search incident arrest exception, all the
way through Di Re, Miller, Johnson, Ker, DeFillippo,
those are five cases that confront the question in this
case, I believe that genuinely confront it; is not
dictum, it is holding.
Those cases confront the question: Can you
have a constitutional search incident to an illegal
arrest? Illegal there not being unconstitutional, but a
violation of State law.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why do you draw a
distinction between something that's prohibited by a
statute, something that's prohibited by a local ordnance
or let's say it's a directive of the police department?
And if it's -- if the arrest is contrary to any of those
things, it's unlawful under State law, is it not?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The court hasn't ever
confronted that question. The places -- the line of
cases that I described were one of two things, Positive
State legislation enacted by the legislature or common
law. It has never dealt with the locality question.
Whren suggests that maybe a local police regulation is
too variable. We would win under either rule.
The -- I think the core reason you would
draw the line at legislation is because this -- the
Fourth Amendment is not just an instrumental thing
designed to do good. It is, as designed, to apply
common law concepts of reasonableness, which was the
foundation --
JUSTICE ALITO: I thought it was your
argument that if the arrest is unlawful under State law
it's an unreasonable search, an unreasonable arrest
under the Fourth Amendment?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's right. And your
question, Justice Alito, is designed to test what I mean
by unlawful in terms of what sources -- the State
constitution, legislation, local police practices.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. It's designed to test
whether you really mean unlawful under State law.
Either you don't mean it, because something that
violates a municipal ordnance is unlawful under State
law, and yet you would not apply your test. So you
could express your test differently, unlawful under
State statutory law.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: If I have conveyed that
impression, I am sorry. I did not intend to. Our rule
is that if it's unlawful. All I'm saying is the Court
could conclude that local police regulations, for
example, are too variable to -- and Whren calls them
"trivialities," so we won't pick them up.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, it says the laws
of the 50 States are pretty variable on this question as
well.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: As are the laws of whether
it's a crime at all, as are under Indianapolis v. Edmund
and lots of other cases where the court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do we have to look
at both of those varieties? Let's say the State has a
rule that, yes, you can arrest people in a way that we
would say you can't, but you don't have to have probable
cause. You just have to -- they're just arrestable.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, as Justice Ginsburg
suggests, you have to have probable cases to arrest.
Cases like Berkemer, Seth --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- is probable cause
to arrest. The State has a law that says you can arrest
in these circumstances whether or not you have probable
cause to believe that a crime has been committed.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I'm sorry. By that phrase I
mean there is a constitutional component. Part of the
constitutional floor is that you have to have sufficient
cause. That's a guarantee of the Fourth Amendment.
This Court's cases make clear you can't go below --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you were
telling us it has to be sufficient cause to arrest, not
sufficient cause to believe that a crime has been
committed.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is necessary but not a
sufficient condition, Mr. Chief Justice. There's
obviously a -- the constitutional floor includes the
element of the -- the degree of proof that's required by
this Court precedents.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it is, as your
friends on the other side put it, you are advocating a
two-step process. There has to be probable cause to
arrest and there has to be probable cause to believe a
crime has been committed?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I view those as the same
thing. We may be just having --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, they're
different here. They had probable cause to believe a
crime has been committed, but you say they didn't have
probable cause to arrest because State law makes it
illegal.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: In that sense, absolutely.
I just wanted to make sure I understood the terminology.
That's correct.
But let me make quite clear that we are
discussing in the first half hour and the second half
hour I think two slightly different things. The first
half hour focused on the constitutionality of the arrest
vel non, which is at issue in Atwater, for example, and
at issue -- not even in Whren, which is just a traffic
stop.
I am focusing on the somewhat different
point. There is a line of cases that deals with the
constitutionality of the search incident to arrest and
it says because at common law you could not search
someone pursuant to an arrest that was a trespass, the
search itself is unconstitutional. So if at the time of
the framing a Federal officer, a Federal marshal, at the
time of the framing had the power to arrest them for
State law offenses, as they still do under the OLC
opinions.
If a Federal marshal had gone up to someone
who's committing a completely trivial offense, Atwater
recognizes there are offenses at common law that are not
arrestable. That would be a trespass and to search the
person incident to that arrest would have violated the
Fourth Amendment, we believe. It would have been
unreasonable. When Mapp applies the Fourth Amendment to
the States, it would have been --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the State
makes a trivial offense arrestable, as in Atwater?
You're suggesting in that situation the common law rule
we have doesn't apply. It's a trivial offense, but it's
made arrestable and therefore it doesn't violate the
Fourth Amendment to search incident to that arrest.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's right. At common law
and under the Fourth Amendment, that's right. You look
to the positive source of authority, which is State law
authority to arrest or a common law authority to arrest.
That would not be unconstitutional. That -- that rule
also make sense as a question of the structure of our
democracy. Remember, it puts in the hands of the
legislature, which can be held responsible for the
decision to make a trivial offense --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what if
the legislature -- this was the hypothetical Mr. Dreeben
posed. What if the legislature says yes, you can arrest
for this offense but you cannot search incident to the
arrest, because we think that's too much of an intrusion
given the fact that it's a relatively trivial offense?
In that case, would our doctrine saying under the Fourth
Amendment you can search incident to a valid arrest be
reversed preempted, preempted by the State law?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No. There are times --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the State can
define the circumstances under which you can have an
arrest, but the State can't define and limit the
consequences of the arrest?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's right. That is --
there are traditions that are rooted in the common law,
that the search incident to arrest here was pursuant to
a trespass at common law that was completely
unreasonable.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't -- isn't the
difficulty with that argument that we -- we have
rejected the, in effect, the trespass rationale; and
what you're telling us now, it seems to me, based on in
effect trespass concepts, is that so far as the Fourth
Amendment is concerned an arrest may constitutionally be
made, but the officer following that arrest may not take
the step of determining whether the individual arrested
has on his person anything that can be used to hurt the
officer like a knife or a gun?
And why should be we draw what seems to
me -- if we scrap, as we have done, the trespass
analogy, why should we make what seems to me at least an
irrational distinction of saying the Fourth Amendment
says it's okay to arrest but it's not okay to protect
yourself after you have arrested? Why should we accept
such a rule?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: This is I think the hardest
question for us, and so if I could have the time to give
you a couple of answers. The first is remember your
instrumental point is that the officer has the person,
they need to protect themselves. We know that is not
itself -- and I'm going to give you a couple of
answers -- that is not itself to make the search
constitutional because everyone agrees that if the
arrest was unconstitutional, then the search,
notwithstanding the exigencies that exist under Chimel
and like cases all the way back, exist. So it's not
enough that the officer has to protect himself. The
reason --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Right. But we're starting
with a different premise.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: We're starting with a
constitutional premise.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. I understand this.
Justice Souter, I understand. I was just trying to get
to your -- what I think is the greatest sort of logical
force: The officer need to protect himself.
Now, to get to the harder case, which is
yours, and that is accept that the arrest is
constitutional. We of course don't do that. We believe
that there isn't a sufficient interest to make it
reasonable, but you posit otherwise. The reason is
given by Justice Powell's concurrence in Robinson, which
is the fundamental search and seizure arrest case, and
he says when the person is lawfully arrested they have
engaged in conduct that they know can subject them to
arrest, they have a reduced expectation of privacy. So
while it's the case that the governmental interest
remains the same -- protect the officer, find the
evidence -- the other side of the Fourth Amendment
balance is fundamentally different, because when a
person has engaged in conduct which they know does not
subject them to arrest they do not have a reduced
expectation of privacy.
This individual had every reason to believe
dating back to the traditions of common law, to positive
State law, that they would not be searched incident to
arrest.
JUSTICE SOUTER: If that -- if that logic is
sound and that logic depends on Justice Powell's use of
the word unlawfully, then it seems to me the -- the only
way to arrest an irrational system would to be conclude
that, in fact, the arrest is not constitutionally
lawful. Because on -- on your logic, you're still left
with the problem that I raised; and a constitutional
arrest in which the officer does not violate the Fourth
Amendment by apprehending the person, and yet the
officer is disabled from protecting himself, if we're
going to have a sensible rule, we've either got to say
the Fourth Amendment allows him to make the search
incident and protect himself, or we've got to have a
rule that says the Fourth Amendment doesn't allow him to
make the search -- make the arrest in the first place.
Otherwise we've got a crazy system.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Can I just correct one
thing? And that is it does not depend on Justice
Powell's use of the word unlawful. I believe to rule
against us, Justice Souter, that you will have to
overrule the line of cases from Di Re to DeFillipo.
Those are on point. Now you may decide --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Don't you think we have
to, if not overrule, at least back away from the holding
in California versus Greenwood?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, Justice Kennedy, and
that's why I focused so much on searches incident to
arrest. There are times when State law is incorporated
into the Fourth Amendment, and everybody agrees that
regulatory searches are; inventory searches are, there
are times when it isn't. And California v Greenwood is
not one and there's a logical reason for it. And that
is that the premise of when you were deciding in a -- in
a trash search, this Court's document looked at two
things. The first is, is there a reasonable expectation
of privacy, and if there is do we balance the interest?
California v Greenwood says there was no reasonable
expectation of privacy because that's evaluated as a
societal matter. I'm focusing on a very narrow question
that doesn't disturb any other doctrines.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about Cooper -- Cooper
v California?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I think Cooper v California
is a very good case for us, because Cooper and all its
progeny say that State law has to authorize and
determine the validity of the inventory search. If you
violate the State regulations on when you conduct an
inventory search, you violated the Fourth Amendment.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can we go back for a
second? Because, the reason I asked my question is I
was thinking about this very differently, and I just
want to have an answer, and I want your best thinking on
this. My thought is that the answer to the question of
whether it violates the Fourth Amendment when a State --
when a person is arrested in violation of State law, the
answer is: it depends. Sometimes yes, sometimes no.
Obviously, if there is no probable cause or if there
wasn't a crime at all, as just defined, the answer is
yes; but then I look at Whren and it says if all that
was at stake was a kind of arrest procedure State law,
herein -- there embodied in a rule, the answer is no.
So I look at this one. And this one it seems to me
there is probable cause; it is a crime; moreover, it is
a crime for which the State permits arrest where the
officer subjectively thinks he's likely to keep driving.
So it seems to me that's maybe much more close to what
we had in Whren.
Now I want you to say -- I want your
comments on what I -- it's hypothetical, my statement,
because I want to get your reaction to that point of
view. I'm not saying I hold it. But I'm putting it
forward so that I can get your reaction and argument.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, I think it is a
terribly difficult rule to administer when you try to
decide, well if this is a law that sometimes allows
arrest and sometimes does not. It is an infinitely more
administrable rule on our side, where we say to the
police officers, you have the power to arrest or not and
that's what determines --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think it is much easier
to administer, to have a uniform Federal standard,
rather than whether or not an officer can arrest in one
county for something and not in another county whether
he has to have a badge or not. Those are the kind of
trivialities we talked about in Whren.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Justice Kennedy,
remember, we have one standard for an officer on the
street, and that is, look -- do, if you're allowed to
arrest, you can arrest, and that's what will determine
the constitutionality of the search incident to arrest.
The Government posits two different standards that
govern the officer's conduct: a Federal one and State
one.
But let me also get to your point, Justice
Kennedy, that you are worried that are all kinds of
these State laws. There's -- you know, are you out of
your jurisdiction , are you wearing a uniform? What we
think that the common law was concerned with, and this
line -- this Court's court line of cases from Di Re to
DeFillipo is a more fundamental judgment. It's like the
judgment whether it's a crime at all. The police power
of the State is most fundamentally, is this a crime, can
we arrest for it, someone for it, so that we will hold
them? And those are the judgments: is its arrestable
or not? And not these other little things that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But under that analysis,
it seems to you we rely on the citizen's expectation of
privacy as the justification. And I think
Justice Kennedy makes a rather strong response to that,
because it's unrealistic to assume that a citizen in
certain counties in Virginia had such an expectation but
did not in other counties, because most citizens don't
know the sophisticated aspects of the Virginia law.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: This is a very -- just as a
court note, there's no other State that has one of these
statutes. Just in terms of your thinking about whether
this is a common practice, we haven't been able to find
any others, and even in Virginia, it's only to a small
body of offenses. But even taking as a given --
Justice Stevens, I think doctrinally, as Justice Powell
says in Robinson, the notion is that people go out into
the world and engage in conduct, and we expect them to
know the law. Sometimes that's an unreasonable
expectation, but it's the only premise that this Court
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, can I get
back to your discussion of Cooper? In Cooper, you said
that if it violates the State law for an inventory
search, then you can't search incident to that. But
that's because it is then not an inventory search. Here
there's no doubt that this was an arrest, whether it
complied with State law or not.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Chief Justice Roberts, I do
disagree. Post-Cooper, in South Dakota v. Opperman,
even if the police officers label it an inventory search
-- the person says, oh, we were just trying to keep
track of everything, so nobody doubts they were really
inventorying things -- the Court has said it's the --
the practice is, the State practice is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but just -- it
gets to -- I mean, if you don't follow the State rules,
it doesn't comply with the rules for an inventory
search. But here you're saying if don't -- you're not
saying if you don't follow the State rules, it's not an
arrest. It's not a lawful arrest. But that's a
different question than whether or not it is an arrest.
Our precedents say if it's an arrest, you can search
incident to the arrest.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, I
disagree. This Court has said many times, and indeed
squarely held in Johnson, where the evidence was
suppressed, that it has to be an arrest that is lawful
under State law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Goldstein, can I bring
you back to Cooper v. California?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which you say is a good
case for you. I don't see how you can say that. This
was a case of a car impounded. The State court had said
that there was no authority to search the car, simply
because it was impounded, and we said the question here
is not whether the search was authorized by State law;
the question is rather whether the search was a
reasonable one under the Fourth Amendment.
Just as a search authorized by State law may
be an unreasonable one under that amendment, so may a
search not expressly authorized by State law be
justified as a constitutional reasonable one. And you
think that helps your case?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Not -- I don't think that
language is relevant for the following reason: What the
Court said in Cooper was that the seizure of the car,
which is analogous to the arrest here, right? They
seized my client's person; they seized the car. The
Court said because the seizure of the car was lawful
under State law, then the search incident to was. And
let me just read to you from Coolidge versus --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even though the State law
did not authorize it.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The State law did not speak
to it either way, but -- it didn't speak to it either
way.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They were assume ing, in
that passage, that the State law did not authorize it,
or otherwise the passage makes no sense.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, I disagree.
In any event, post-Cooper, South Dakota v. Opperman, as
the conversation between the Chief Justice and I was
just explaining, is perfectly clear that the inventory
search has to be authorized pursuant to State
regulation. If after Cooper this is perfectly settled,
there really isn't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, if we
assume, contrary to your footnote 13, that the
exclusionary rule is implicated in this case, could you
explain why, under the Federal Constitution, there
should be imposed on the State an exclusionary rule for
a violation of State law when State law does not impose
an exclusionary rule for the violation of its law?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Assuming the Court decides
that the question was not waived because it wasn't
briefed, the reason is that this Court's exclusionary
rule precedents look to something else, and that is:
Did the evidence follow directly from the
unconstitutional conduct? And here it did.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I guess the
question would be: Why doesn't our jurisprudence on
whether there's an arrest also look to something else,
rather than whether it's permitted or violated under
State law? In other words, the State doesn't -- the
State law does not provide for the exclusionary rule,
but we say the Fourth Amendment does.
Under -- this is not a valid arrest under
State law, but your brothers say under the Fourth
Amendment it is because there's probable cause to
believe a crime has been committed.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, I think
that illustrates the point I am willing to accept, and
that is there are times that State law is relevant under
this Court's doctrines; there are times it isn't. Welsh
v. Wisconsin, for example, is another example where the
Court looks squarely to the State law of whether and how
serious the offense is. My point is that there is a
very particular doctrine that is in play here that deals
with searches incident to arrest.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if Virginia has a
statute that said it's unlawful to arrest for a traffic
violation, but that it is lawful under Virginia law for
an officer to conduct a search incident to any arrest,
whether it's lawful under Virginia law or not? Would we
follow that latter Virginia law?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I don't know. That is the
true answer, because no State has such a law. It would
depend, I think, on whether the arrest itself satisfied
constitutional --
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the difference
between that law and in effect what Virginia has in
place? They say the arrest is unlawful, but they don't
provide for the exclusion of evidence that's obtained as
a result of that arrest under Virginia law.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The reason is I think the
one -- that the Court has never looked to the State law
remedies in Di Re, Miller, Johnson, Ker, and DeFillippo,
and that it looks to what the common law would look to,
which is: Is the arrest legal or not?
I also would repeat what I said to Justice
Breyer, and that is I would not assume that Virginia
believes that the exclusionary rule wouldn't apply
because those precedents trigger the Fourth Amendment.
But, Justice Breyer, I do want to come back
to your question about, okay, Whren. The important
differences are: Remember Whren didn't just say that
things about whether people can be arrested are
trivialities. It's at the core of the Fourth Amendment.
The Court would never say that arrest is a triviality.
What it's talking about is what concerned
Justice Kennedy, and that is the kind of rule in Whren,
which is the guy had to be in a police uniform and
driving around in a marked police cruiser, which could
vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, the Court felt
that was more of a triviality. This is a much more
fundamental statement --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And both arrests are
illegal, but you're saying that there's a difference.
So your bright-line rule now seems to evaporate.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, I don't --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean I'm assuming that
your answer to my question about the badge or the wrong
county and so forth would not result in suppression.
Correct me if I have misinterpreted your argument.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We have proposed two
alternative rules. Fundamentally, that's right. And
that is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's right?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I'm sorry. You're right:
On our core condition, the evidence would not be
suppressed. The reason is that we think the most
fundamental State judgment here is whether this offense
is arrestable. Alternatively, the Court could apply a
rule that just says State officers, if they're allowed
to arrest lawfully, then that will generate a
constitutional search incident to arrest. We would win
under either either rule.
I think the core of our case is a much
simpler rule that simply says if the State has decided
this thing is not arrestable, it obviously doesn't have
an interest in the arrest that would outweigh the
individual's expectation of privacy -- remember search
incident to arrest is an exigency. There is no --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then if you -- do you
accept the proposition then, in some of these minor
cases, the arrest might be valid, then you're whole
argument about the Framers and the trespass and so forth
is wrong.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: To -- that's correct. If we
are going to follow the common law and the rule that is
articulated, I think, in every single
search-incident-to-arrest case, that it has to be a
lawful arrest, that's right. It will take up all of
State arrest law. I'm not trying to hide from that
fact. But the Court has never had a problem with that.
In all of those cases all through time, it has never had
any problem with administerability or anything else with
a rule that simply says to the police officer: If
you're allowed to arrest him, arrest him; if you're not,
you're not, and you can't search him constitutionally.
That is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think your friend
agreed that the cases didn't establish whether our
references to probable cause meant to probable cause to
arrest or probable cause to believe that a crime had
been committed. You don't agree with that? Do you
think that the cases foreclose their position?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I do when it comes to the
search-incident-to-arrest cases. I think two things.
This is my understanding of the Court's precedents. The
Court has said if you have probable cause, you can
arrest. In every case that it has said that, it has
been lawful at State law to arrest -- to arrest. So the
Court has confronted this question when it comes to the
constitutionality of the arrest vel non.
There is a second line of cases that deals
specifically with this search-incident-to-arrest
doctrine, and in every one of those, it has both said it
has to be a lawful arrest. And then in five separate
cases, it has explained what it meant by a "lawful
arrest." And it can't be dictum. The evidence in
Johnson versus the United States was suppressed. It has
to have been the holding of the court.
We think that that is a sensible rule for
two reasons: It is what Framers meant. It cannot be
the case that a Federal marshal, at the time of the
framing, could go and just arrest somebody for a
completely trivial offense -- that was a trespass -- and
then search them. And, second, Justice Powell's
concurrence in Robinson makes a lot of sense. But if
you engage in constitutional --
JUSTICE ALITO: In Johnson, the search was
illegal because they illegally entered the hotel room.
Isn't that right? So it didn't matter what happened
after that point.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is not what the Court
said. The Court was quite clear on this, Justice Alito.
I just don't think there's two ways about it. It was
quite on all five of these cases.
I'm not saying the Court couldn't have
decided the case otherwise. That's true. I think the
Court could have had a different rationale, but the
point is it didn't. All of these cases cite each other.
It's a uniform line of authority. It's not an accident.
It's not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The Court simply said
we're going to use our Federal supervisory power and
incorporate the State law of arrest. If we don't have
another body of law, we're going to do it. It didn't
say it was required to by the Constitution. That's not
the way I read Di Re.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, then -- I don't know
how you pronounce it either, but I do know that Johnson,
Ker, and DeFillippo are cases that are against the
State. They are not supervisory authority cases.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then you have three cases,
not five.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, I disagree.
JUSTICE BREYER: Putting cases aside for the
moment --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean if we reach this
question, you must have lost on the first question. I
mean you win -- if you win on the first question, you
win.
If you -- all right. If you have lost on
the first question, this is not an unreasonable search
-- arrest, rather, under the Fourth Amendment.
And, moreover, it's not enough of a big
deal, so the State makes it suppressible. Otherwise, a
-- and so now we're talking about minor things under
State law that is secondary at the least.
And there, when the policeman make a mistake
about that, the reason we let him search is he might be
hurt, the policeman. There's danger involved.
And so I don't see why at the moment that
rationale wouldn't apply just as strongly with a reason
for it being unlawful under State but not Federal law is
a violation of one of these subsidiary rules whether he,
you know, thought the guy was going to keep driving
under the suspended license or, you know, might be risky
or might not show up.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: May I? There is no claim of
good faith here which could be raised to a Fourth
Amendment argument in a later case. There's absolutely
no mistake. And we don't want to encourage officers to
conduct illegal arrests and search people.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can finish your
answer.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right. Thank
you, Mr. Goldstein.
Mr. McCullough, you have four minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN B. McCULLOUGH
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. McCULLOUGH: Thank you.
First, when counsel says that this is some
kind of a unique Virginia statute, that's wrong. The
brief filed by the ABA shows that all but nine States
have enacted provisions that are similar, that involve
restrictions on their officers' authority, and each of
those has exceptions, and so on and so forth.
So it is not a unique situation. You have
clear rules. Why would you trade them in for a morass?
An arrest is constitutional if the officers have
probable cause to believe a crime has been committed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Any crime at all?
MR. McCULLOUGH: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Any crime at all;
jaywalking, for example?
MR. McCULLOUGH: That's -- that's correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: We would never know about
it if the -- if the misdemeanor, or jaywalking offense,
was not committed in the officer's presence.
MR. McCULLOUGH: That's right. In the case
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's not a problem for
you here, but that is a limitation on what we have held.
MR. McCULLOUGH: That's correct. In
Atwater, a jaywalking arrest is constitutionally
permissible. Atwater did not reach the in-the-presence
question, and it is not presented here because the
offense occurred in the officer's presence. So --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. McCullough, what is
here, for some reason the Commonwealth did not cite
Cooper v. California, which I can't understand unless
you agree with your friend that it has been overruled by
later cases.
MR. McCULLOUGH: No. I think -- we relied
on Greenwood, and so I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand. Why didn't
you cite Cooper v. California?
MR. McCULLOUGH: I don't have an explanation
for that. We certainly think it strongly -- as the
United States points out in their brief, that it
strongly supports our position.
And as the lower courts have noted when
facing a similar argument, you've already held that when
it comes to a search, that under Greenwood and Cooper,
that State-law considerations aren't going to be what
the constitutional inquiry turns on.
Why would you have this incongruity where
that's true in Greenwood and Cooper with a search of a
residence or an automobile but then you have a different
rule when it comes to an arrest? The States have been
handling this problem, but it's an issue of State law.
And the State here has never held, going
back to 1924, that a violation of State law rises to the
level of a constitutional arrest and -- or, excuse me --
that -- let me restate that.
That a violation of State law warrants the
exclusionary rule at the State level. So when the
legislature enacted this, they contemplated that
specific set of remedies.
So, at the end of the day, we just ask the
Court to adhere to its jurisprudence; that the arrest is
constitutional because it is made with probable cause.
There was a violation of state law, but it wasn't a
constitutional problem.
And so we would ask the Court to reverse the
judgment below.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. McCullough, there is
one thing that I was curious about. It is this Virginia
law that allows the custodial arrest pursuant to an
order of a general district court.
MR. McCULLOUGH: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When is that used?
MR. McCULLOUGH: That is used with some
frequency, and we certainly saw an increase in the wake
of the Moore decision. I can't go county by county and
city by city, but it has common currency.
And one example is Portsmouth evidently,
although it is not clear -- we have gotten conflicting
answers. When Mr. Moore was arrested, there is no such
order. But a few miles down the road the City of
Virginia Beach does have such an order.
And this just shows the complexities the
Court would be stepping in where, if Mr. Moore is
arrested in Portsmouth for the exact same crime on the
exact same facts, it is unconstitutional under Moore's
rule.
But he goes a few miles down the road to the
City of Virginia Beach, and the arrest is perfectly
constitutional because the district court has entered
such an order. And it just doesn't make sense, as the
Court noted in Whren, for constitutional provisions to
be so variable.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What would be the basis
of a -- can a district court enter such an order just
because it thinks it's a good idea? Are there any
grounds in --
MR. McCULLOUGH: The statute -- I see my
time has expired. The statute at issue, 46.2-936, does
not really lay out particular criteria. So it is -- and
the issue hasn't been litigated in the Virginia courts
as to the criteria that's required. But it seems to be
broad discretion by the general district judge.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:05 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
59:19 56:20 41:17,19,22 5:4,8,9,13,16 arrestable 10:23
agrees 38:1 55:6 6:10,13,14,16 22:19,24 33:6
ahead 4:7 14:22 37:25 58:17 9:12,13,16,23 43:15 50:15,22
38:17 53:4 1:14 14:7,10,23,25 24:9 27:7 37:9
51:2 allow 39:25 application 15:9 16:3,4,10 37:17 38:23
alternative 50:8 apply 4:7,9,21 22:15 23:5 arrests 23:23
19:10 amendment 32:12 35:21 27:3,6,11,13 17:15 51:8
25:15 17:15 18:22,25 49:9 50:15 27:24 28:20 aside 54:1
20:1,7 36:15 37:7,15 appropriately 36:2,2,10,12 9:11
39:3,20,23,25 17:19 36:15,20,21,24 assume 12:3
49:10,15 54:10 argue 14:16 39:19 40:1,14 assumed 6:1
amicus 1:19 arguing 6:25 42:14,18,25,25 50:3
amorphous argument 1:12 45:6,6,7,8,9,13 Atwater 20:1
analog 24:6 12:18,19 17:6 48:11,13,15,20 34:22 35:11,19
analogy 37:14 29:13 32:1 49:16 50:17,18 authority 11:24
angry 11:11 57:6 51:22 52:4,5,5 23:9,23 36:1,2
55:19 34:6,11 35:15 21:9,21,23,24 12:25 13:12,24 36:19
40:5 48:2 29:16 40:11,17 16:25,25 19:2 56:25
45:23 believed 28:16 45:16 56:19,25 33:6,10,13,17 43:21
47:1 believes 28:16 call 10:10,21 33:20,21 34:5 citizens 3:15
belt 26:14 13:22 41:18,24 48:1 citizen's 43:18
best 3:14 41:13 32:19 52:3 55:24 59:1
big 27:25 28:5 capacity 18:12 caused 10:13 class 23:5
29:22 18:15 cease 6:10 clear 3:21 20:5
55:12 board 16:20 30:9,9 45:20 certainly 14:12 53:4 55:22
40:10 booked 6:4 46:11 58:12 clearly 20:25
44:13 boundaries case 10:13 13:5 challenge 30:4 client's 46:10
49:11 18:12 16:3,11 19:9 30:12 close 42:2
Breyer 5:5 27:5 20:14,20 21:7 change 3:19 closest 24:6
50:4 41:10 49:8,11 24:7,12,19,22 characterized come 4:13 19:21
39:4 brief 28:25 38:16,22 39:1 check 10:10 52:6 57:7,13
55:17 57:3 41:5 45:19,20 Chief 3:3,8 4:3 comments 42:5
50:1 59:17,18 33:19,24 34:3 34:12 48:2
27:6 45:15 30:24 31:2,14 44:19 45:1,10 committing
brothers 47:25 43:10 51:3,13 55:5,8 59:16 26:21,23 30:18
2:4,6,9,12 build 3:16 53:10,21,22,23 19:23 36:2,23,25
9:4 17:7 Bureau 8:18 54:1 56:21 chose 6:23 39:9 43:9 44:3
55:13 case-by-case chosen 19:19 49:5 51:7
10:3 19:2 C 1:21 2:1,8 3:1 cause 3:12 7:3 10:25 11:4,21 Commonwealth
29:14 26:3 8:9 9:16,20,23 23:3 25:16,19 56:18
33:13,21 California 21:6 10:2,3,4,6 27:20 33:12 compare 30:20
36:25 36:21 56:19,25 57:7 52:15 53:3,4,7 15:13,19
considerations 57:11 53:9,13 57:24 dating 39:9
constitution 50:12,20 59:4,7 day 57:23
21:18 26:8,24 16:14 22:18 57:5 59:13 28:10 29:22
53:17 34:17 40:3 20:18 25:3 dealing 30:16
3:17,19,24 56:12 40:20 43:10 52:8
14:1,4 18:10 44:12 47:4 52:2 decide 40:8
30:12 31:3 counties 43:22 crashing 8:6 decided 22:11
39:18 46:4 42:19,19 50:5 4:1 10:3 14:9 47:11
49:17 52:23 55:23 couple 30:11 15:25 32:25 decision 25:4
58:2 59:2,4 course 38:18 34:12 41:19,24 defendant 5:8
43:1 52:7 4:22,23 6:12 55:24,25 56:2 deficiency 12:4
52:22 3:11 16:24 10:1 11:10,16 crimes 9:11 DeFillipo 40:7
23:1 25:13 15:1,11 16:16 criteria 19:4 DeFillippo
24:21 51:17 56:13 17:15,22 18:19 crossed 26:17 53:21
39:5 contact 4:17 19:20,25 20:10 crucial 19:1 define 30:20
43:3 44:8 contemplated 20:13,22,23 cruiser 49:20 36:19,20
48:15 57:21 21:7,11,24 curiae 1:19 17:8 defined 41:19
context 24:1 22:6,23 23:4 curious 58:6 degree 34:1
28:1 26:6,20 27:17 23:5 58:7 denied 6:20
conversation 32:17 33:1 D 18:17 19:9
31:2 conveyed 32:15 44:1,10,24 Dakota 44:20 departmental
52:6 Cooper 21:6,15 46:11 47:11 dance 7:25 depend 40:4
44:13,13 45:16 49:21 50:15 29:21 54:17 depends 39:13
13:13,21,22 E event 46:23 expect 44:8
discussion 29:13 easier 42:16 40:15 39:7 40:21,24
32:5,8 disposition Edwards 6:11 4:18 15:14 50:24
42:25 distinguished 20:25 31:18 39:3 45:12 13:7,8 28:18
district 23:4 46:17,17 50:19 50:12 52:13 explained 52:12
37:9 disturb 41:1 element 34:1 evoked 30:13 46:25
49:4 doctrine 36:14 embrace 4:22 58:22,23 11:7 57:1
48:10 52:10 embraced 9:9 example 14:21 express 32:13
48:6 employee 8:5 34:22 48:7,7 extended 4:17
48:22 dog 11:11 enacted 17:18 exceed 17:14 19:6
doing 9:3 23:10 31:15 19:25 extra-constitu...
doubt 44:17 encourage 55:3 exceptions 9:25 extreme 26:11
30:1,2,3 downtown 23:18 22:20,22 55:20 F
21:2,4
34:11 draw 31:6,20 23:12,15,20 exclude 19:12 facility 9:10
38:8 37:12 25:14 19:13 29:9 facing 57:6
43:2 45:7 drawn 25:15 engage 4:16 excluded 4:10 fact 5:17 8:1,3,4
57:12 Dreeben 1:17 18:4,6,22 22:8 20:3 11:17 20:25
41:12 17:22 18:2,8 engaged 38:24 exclusionary 4:6 39:16 51:12
drinking 20:15 entered 22:23 excuse 5:5 21:13 58:23
45:11 driving 10:22 equate 21:17 22:24 false 20:13,17
53:25 12:10 27:8,14 erred 3:20 exigencies 38:3 fantastic 8:11
42:1 49:20 2:3,5,8,11 50:25 fast 12:6
13:10 29:19 30:6 evaporate 50:1 exists 25:17 21:17 24:4,5
25:3,13 foreclose 51:24 G 3:1 34:8,15 35:24 half 34:19,19,21
35:6,6 forth 13:17 50:5 garbage 21:25 36:17,22 37:19 handling 57:14
42:17 51:4 55:20 22:3,8 38:9,12 40:3 hands 36:5
47:7 forward 12:19 gather 4:18 40:12 41:4 happened 5:25
53:14 42:8 gee 12:9 42:9,22 43:25 29:11 53:1
found 3:13 9:24 general 1:16,17 44:19 45:10,15 harder 38:16
31:24 59:15 48:3,18 49:2 hearing 24:10
Fourth 17:14 genuinely 30:25 51:25 53:3,19 25:20
39:3,19,23,25 give 18:16 23:4 govern 25:24 holding 9:14
49:10,15 54:10 22:14 36:13 3:15 17:12,18 52:15
30:3,21 framed 26:7,24 giving 23:8 governmental Honor 4:15 5:17
37:21 Framers 51:4 go 7:4 8:6 12:9 18:11 39:1 5:21 6:11 8:24
54:5,6 52:17 12:20 13:6 grant 22:11,14 9:7,18 10:24
55:15 framing 35:6,7 14:22 22:11 greatest 38:14 13:18 14:25
53:6,24 free 3:16 41:10 44:7 21:21,23 22:7 29:5
56:20 28:8 58:25 57:7,11 34:21
fundamental 28:1,4 37:24 guarantee 33:17 hurt 37:10 54:17
43:11 49:23 53:14,16 54:22 27:17 47:17 36:9 42:5
48:17 fundamentally Goldstein 1:21 gun 37:11 I
39:4 43:13 2:8 26:2,3,5,15 guy 27:18 49:19 idea 59:8
further 13:1 28:11 29:3,10 GVR 20:17 illegal 21:25
32:4,15,24 34:14 49:25
individuals 8:23 17:23,24 26:5,13,16 42:20 49:18
individual's jaywalking 56:3 28:24 29:6,12 kinds 23:9,18
infinitely 42:12 job 17:24 33:7,10,19,24 know 7:10,13
inquiry 10:6 45:12 49:4 36:8,18 37:2 13:20 14:7
49:12 31:21 37:22 10:21 22:14 40:6,9,12 41:2 37:23 38:24
38:19 39:1 58:4 46:14,19,22,24 Knowles 4:9,16
interested 15:12 43:15 48:12,22 49:7 knows 27:25
14:22 20:9 jurisdiction 4:2 50:2,3,10 51:1 L
15:9 intrusion 19:6 22:23,25 23:19 51:19 52:21,24 label 44:21
36:12 43:8 49:21,21 53:4,13,23 language 46:7
24:17,21 intrusions 25:21 jurisdictions 54:1,4 55:5,8 large 11:11
31:3 invasion 22:5 24:23 55:25 56:2,5 Laughter 7:11
inventory 21:8 jurisprudence 56:10,17,24 7:15,21 8:12
40:16 41:7,9 47:18 57:24 58:5,10 59:6 15:21
40:13 44:14,16,21 Justice 1:18 3:3 59:16 law 3:18,23 4:5
44:15 45:3 46:25 3:8 4:3,4,11 justification 4:12,14,22
46:12 inventorying 5:5,7,12,15,19 43:19 5:18 8:2,18
50:18 44:24 5:22,24 6:7,14 justified 46:4 10:10 12:21
involve 55:18 6:17,24 7:9,13 13:6,9,16 14:1
56:14 8:22,25 9:2,5 42:1 44:22 18:6,21 19:3
irrational 37:15 10:7,15,19 Kennedy 21:19 19:23,24 20:8
issue 6:21,22 12:18 13:3,15 24:4,11 40:9 21:10,16 22:17
57:14 59:11,13 16:8,15 17:4 49:24 50:2,3 25:2,12,14
24:9 21:22 22:13 53:21 31:16,23 32:1
37:9 J 23:2,24 24:4 kind 6:18 25:19 32:9,12,14
34:13 26:25 looks 48:8 49:5 58:5,9,11 10:8 58:13,17
let's 12:2 31:9 lose 22:6 59:10 58:21
36:1,2 33:3 lost 54:5,8 McNabb-Mall... Moore's 58:23
level 7:1,24 lot 52:22 24:2,3 morass 55:22
40:14 57:17,20 lots 33:1 mean 12:2 14:12 multitude 14:14
liberties 25:21 Lovelace 20:14 21:4 23:4 municipal 32:11
43:9,24 liberty 19:6 20:14 26:20 32:5,9
license 10:23 lower 57:5 32:10 33:15 N
46:1 11:22 12:4,10 45:2 50:3 54:4 N 2:1,1 3:1
27:8,12,24 M 54:6 narrow 12:22
47:9,9 28:7 54:23 magistrate 24:9 means 18:9 40:25
light 20:15 24:25 meant 51:21 nature 15:25
likelihood 15:14 making 9:13 52:12,17 30:12,13
limit 12:7,12 12:19 17:20 men 26:7 nearby 11:14
51:7 24:8 36:20 22:1 merits 20:18 necessarily
52:5 limitation 56:11 Mapp 35:16 met 16:23 19:4 12:12 23:10,12
54:14 line 21:23 22:4 marijuana 7:2,5 MICHAEL 1:17 necessary 25:13
57:14,16 25:15 28:19 7:17 9:1 18:16 2:5 17:6 33:23
58:1,7 31:13,20 35:1 marked 30:9 miles 12:7 58:18 need 4:18 10:22
17:1 52:8 53:11 marshal 35:6,10 Miller 30:23 needs 3:14
45:6,13 lines 4:1 52:18 49:4 neighbor 7:2,20
48:14,16 litigants 6:23 matter 1:11 8:15 mind 24:7 8:25
52:5,11 litigated 13:19 8:19 13:8,25 minimum 19:25 neither 20:20
59:13 14:16 17:18 minor 23:13 29:4
little 22:16 27:6 25:12,13 40:25 54:13 23:13 28:23
live 11:13 matters 3:18 minutes 55:10 51:12,13 56:5
43:7 local 30:5,7,13 1:15 2:3,11 3:5 5:11 new 6:18
40:18 9:3,6,18,21,24 misjudgment 28:21
32:7 longer 25:9 13:23 14:12,24 28:6 54:15 notion 26:7 44:7
31:15 41:20,23 42:24 16:7,14,16 mix-up 6:3 38:3
47:14,19 49:5 55:10,12,14 moment 54:2,18 number 5:2
looked 40:20 56:1,4,8,12,17 Monday 1:9
41:18 official 18:11,15 pat-down 6:1 points 57:3 preempted
18:21,22 pay 20:2 police 4:12 8:16 36:16,16
okay 12:6 16:8 23:18 25:14 32:7,18 42:14 44:10
OLC 35:8 perfectly 46:25 policeman 27:20 presence 56:7
15:18 once 20:18 28:8 47:2 59:1 28:6,8 54:15 56:16
19:11 ones 30:15 period 24:13 54:17 present 6:6,7
ongoing 6:14,17 permissible policemen 27:16 presented 20:19
26:9 opinion 29:7 56:14 27:22 56:15
35:11,19 opinions 35:9 permission 23:4 police's 7:6 preserved 29:15
36:7,11 Opperman permits 15:6 policing 23:15 pretty 15:19
48:9 44:20 46:23 16:21 41:25 Portsmouth 20:25 32:22
52:20 opposite 22:6 permitted 47:20 58:15,22 price 20:3
options 18:19 person 13:22 posed 36:10 principal 30:15
16:18 17:6 26:3 17:20 18:5 position 16:12 20:9 22:5,10
23:18 29:13 19:16 20:14 24:10 25:6 23:11 25:21
35:8,12 order 18:22 58:8 28:7 35:14 51:24 57:4 38:25 39:7
58:18,19 59:3 37:10,22 38:23 positive 18:4,6 40:22,24 43:19
6:1,2 8:2 ordnance 31:8 44:22 46:10 39:9 private 18:11
10:8 32:11 Petitioner 1:4 positively 21:3 probable 3:12
11:1 outset 20:5 1:16,20 2:4,7 posits 23:10 7:3 8:8 9:16,20
14:1 outside 16:11,13 2:12 3:7 17:9 43:2 9:22 10:1,3,4,6
16:5 18:12 22:17 55:13 Post 30:20 12:25 13:12,24
17:13 24:8 phrase 33:14 Post-Cooper 14:9,10,18
21:8 outweigh 50:23 pick 32:20 44:20 46:23 16:24,25 19:2
29:20 override 26:23 place 5:13,22,23 Powell 44:6 24:10 25:15,17
37:8,11 overrule 24:20 20:1 40:1 Powell's 38:21 33:5,8,10,12
38:5,15 24:22 40:7,10 48:24 39:13 40:5 34:5,6,11,13
overruled 25:4,5 places 11:12 52:21 41:18,24 48:1
56:20 31:13 power 30:6 35:7 51:21,21,22
51:15 plainclothes 42:14 43:12 52:3 55:24
11:3,5,18 P 3:1 play 48:10 practice 44:3,25 problem 13:23
13:9 PAGE 2:2 please 3:9 17:11 44:25 39:18 51:12,14
22:25 Part 33:15 26:6 practices 32:7 56:10 57:14
particular 4:2 plenary 23:23 precedents 58:2
30:5 4:20 21:1 point 6:11 16:6 26:20 30:18 procedure 10:21
44:21 23:19 27:5 20:20 23:8 34:2 45:8 29:25 41:21
55:3,19 48:10 59:12 24:15 35:1 47:14 49:10 procedures 3:16
passage 46:20 37:22 40:8 52:2 3:18 21:15
45:22,24 47:12 25:3 31:23 remember 36:5 9:21 11:15
54:5,6,9 56:15 REBUTTAL remove 25:22 32:4 35:24,25
28:23,25 recall 29:12 renounced 21:1 46:9 50:8,10
21:16 21:24 22:9 23:14 rises 57:16
51:2 R recognizes represents 3:14 risky 54:23
25:14 17:6 reduced 38:25 required 10:2 24:24
38:5 raise 3:24 6:22 39:6 20:10 34:1 road 58:18,25
39:2,24 raised 6:21 reexamine 53:17 59:14 Roberts 3:3 4:3
23:11 rationale 4:15 regard 24:18 requirements 29:6 32:21
37:4 53:9 30:6,7,14 residence 57:12 36:8,18 44:12
rationales 16:5 regulations 19:8 resolved 20:21 47:4,17 51:19
53:18 40:16 Respondent 38:21 44:7
really 8:13 32:9 11:16 37:4 23:10 26:4 rooted 36:23
47:1 59:12 20:24 14:11 24:10,19 15:6,23 16:17
reason 6:22 relatively 36:13 25:2,6 16:21 19:11,22
46:7 47:13 relevant 46:7 responsible 36:6 24:18,23 25:24
50:13 48:5 restate 57:18 28:22 29:1,14
16:9 12:13,14 14:20 remaining 17:3 20:8 23:7 35:20 36:3
18:8 18:24 21:11 55:11 55:19 37:18 39:22,25
30:24 22:8 25:18 remains 39:2 result 49:1 50:5 40:5 41:22
47:6 5:24 6:2,5,12 separate 52:11 sound 39:13 44:14,18,25
7:4,7 8:1 9:2 serious 48:9 source 36:1 45:2,5,14,20
50:1 14:20,22,24 seriously 28:12 sources 32:6 45:23 46:1,3
15:3,6,9 16:3,4 serve 20:9 Souter 16:1,8,15 46:12,14,16,20
52:16 16:10,21 17:1 set 24:8 57:22 37:2 38:7,10 47:1,8,9,9,21
58:24 21:9,12 22:9 Seth 33:9 38:13 39:12 47:21,22,25
50:8 26:11 30:4,22 shorter 24:12 South 44:20 50:14,16,21
55:22 31:3 32:2 35:2 show 23:22 46:23 51:11 52:5
54:24 speak 46:16,17 53:15,22 54:12
29:7,7,8 46:12 47:1 55:18 57:6 stake 41:21 6:11 12:16
36:14 48:15 50:18,24 simple 13:11 standard 3:13 17:7,12 20:7
42:7 51:17 52:21,24 simpler 50:21 3:19,21,22 9:8 24:22 32:22
49:25 54:9,16 55:4 simply 6:21 13:7 12:25 13:11,24 35:17 52:14
57:7,11 45:21 50:21 25:24 42:17,23 55:17 57:3,13
29:19 39:10 single 10:5 51:8 stands 21:16 State-law 57:8
33:11 searches 8:6 situation 11:24 starting 38:7,10 station 6:4
36:10 16:11 21:15,25 12:8,11 15:16 state 1:15 3:18 statute 9:17,25
38:23 22:3 40:13,16 21:7 35:20 3:23 4:1,5,12 11:17 28:13
40:23 40:16 48:11 55:21 4:14,22,23 7:8 31:8 48:13
44:7,22 searching 18:1 situations 18:10 7:9,12,22 8:14 55:16 59:10,11
51:15 search-incide... slightly 34:20 8:21 9:4,10,16 statutes 44:2
51:9 52:1,9 small 28:13 44:4 9:24 11:9,9,16 statutory 32:14
8:5 second 28:15 social 23:16 17:16 19:14,15 STEPHEN 1:15
34:19 41:11 societal 40:25 19:17,19 20:25 2:3,11 3:6
9:5 52:8,21 Solicitor 1:15,17 21:16 22:3,5 55:12
12:2,18 secondary 54:14 somebody 7:17 22:10,17,18 stepping 58:21
see 10:10 45:19 26:14 27:11,12 23:1,25 24:12 Stevens 5:7,12
18:3 54:18 59:10 27:23 52:19 25:2,7,9 31:5 5:15,19,22,24
26:13 seized 46:10,10 someone's 7:23 31:11,15 32:1 6:7,14,17
32:8 seizure 25:17 somewhat 34:25 32:6,9,11,14 14:15 15:2,8
45:15,18 38:22 46:8,11 soon 11:14 13:6 33:3,11 34:13 43:17 44:6
seizures 8:6 sophisticated 35:8,18 36:1 stop 12:3 27:11
sense 4:19 34:15 43:24 36:16,18,20 27:11,23 30:4
suspect 3:12 44:24 49:14 39:9 5:18
39:6 suspend 28:1,2 8:3,13,14,20 48:13 6:9 16:2 38:12
10:23 27:8,23 14:13 18:10,23 treat 21:9 understanding
switch 11:12 23:8 24:15 35:4,13 36:25 understood
40:2 27:13,25 28:5 52:20 undertake 21:8
T 30:14 31:19 49:10 undertaking
27:7 28:12 40:9 41:4 42:9 trivial 35:11,19 27:2
37:8 51:10 42:16 43:9,19 35:21 36:7,13 unfortunately
talking 9:19 50:13,20 51:8 42:21 49:15 9:8 25:13 30:8
54:13 52:16 53:5,8 29:25 49:16,22 49:19 53:11
15:20,24 16:3 thinking 41:12 57:11 55:16,21
tell 26:20 thinks 42:1 59:8 trying 13:8 United 1:1,12,19
37:5 2:8 26:3 28:8 51:11 52:14 57:3
6:5 17:9 34:16 28:9,24 31:25 29:23 57:9 32:1,6,9,11,13
terribly 42:10 three 53:23 34:20 40:20 unlawfully
45:13 25:25 55:8,14 52:18 59:11 13:24 34:5 43:21
52:14 59:16 times 6:12 36:17 types 16:18 unreasonable
24:19 25:2 48:5,6 U 27:4 32:2,2
31:21 34:9 timing 6:21 25:22 44:9 46:2 54:9
9:1 19:20 58:6 told 10:20 9:13 21:5 31:4 use 39:13 40:5
things 27:2 track 44:23 35:5 36:3 38:2 53:14
19:13,20,23,24 15:11 29:7,8 14 1:9
29:11 23:3,3 24:20 30:16 38:7,10 17 2:7
40:17,23 27:10,17,22 39:21 53:14,16 1924 57:16
44:20 28:3,4,12,16 54:13
29:4 we've 26:16 2
46:23
56:19,25 43:22,24 44:4 39:22,24 40:2 2008 1:9
58:6,19 Whren 25:16,20 3
51:3 3 2:4
59:5 virtues 3:22 32:19 34:23
59:11
52:14 25:7 41:13,13 Wisconsin 48:7
35:22 wanted 34:16 works 14:5
41:8 warrant 10:8,11 world 19:9 44:8
19:3 22:14,15 wouldn't 12:11
28:22 warrants 57:19 12:14 18:3
35:14 Washington 1:8 28:15 49:9
47:20 1:18,21 54:19
44:14 41:19 47:12 write 11:12 29:7
waste 23:16 55:16
38:4 X
18:10
21:10 39:15 46:17,18 x 1:2,7
31:5 53:18
47:9,10 years 15:20
54:21 wearing 8:15
58:1 26:14 43:8
23:21 Weeks 30:21
1:13 3:2
9:12,12 We'll 3:3
59:18
