IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
WYETH, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1249
DIANA LEVINE. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 3, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
Petitioner.
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioner 14
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 06-1249, Wyeth v. Levine.
Mr. Waxman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case concerns conflict pre-emption
under the Supremacy Clause, and the conflict presented
here is stark. Repeatedly over the years, the FDA
approved Phenergan injection as safe and effective under
all the conditions and methods of use described in the
labeling, including what is referred to as "IV push"
injection. Yet a State jury, evaluating the same risk
that the FDA had considered, determined that the precise
labeling that FDA had required Wyeth to use in fact
rendered Phenergan "unreasonably dangerous." That --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just at the outset, I'll
just make one comment. You argue that it's impossible
for Wyeth to comply with the State law and at the same
time the Federal label. As a textual matter, as a
logical matter, I just -- I don't understand that. I
think I could design a label that's completely
consistent and that meets the requirements that the
Respondents wish to urge.
Now, if you want to say that any alteration
of the label violates Federal law, that's something
else. But as a textual matter, as a logical matter, as
a semantic matter, I don't agree with it.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, let me make sure, because
I do think we do agree, and I want to make sure that I'm
understood, Justice Kennedy. I think what you've
articulated is the test which is, is it possible for a
regulated party to comply at the same time with both
Federal law and State law? In other words, could they
use, as they were required by Federal law to do, to use
the precise label that in approving the application in
1998 the FDA required Wyeth to use, and also use the
label that the Vermont jury determined should be used,
and that was stated in the complaint and in the opening
and the closing a statement that you may not, should not
use IV administration or IV push, in other words that
you should contra -- the label should contra-indicate
something --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman --
MR. WAXMAN: -- that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It didn't say -- it
didn't say IV across the board. It said IV push is the
claim, and that was -- as I understand this, the FDA was
aware of the IV use and a certain risk. But did it
ever, ever discreetly consider IV push versus IV
administered the usual way by a drip bag?
MR. WAXMAN: Yes it did, Justice Ginsburg,
and I want to cite you to the portions of the record
that demonstrate that it did. But before I do so, I
just want to underscore a point that I think is clear
from both our brief and the Solicitor General's brief,
which is that isn't the test of preemption in any event.
The question is what did the labeling say and upon what
information was the labeling decision made.
But as to your particular question, there
are -- first of all, there was testimony in the record
from multiple parties, including experts from both
sides, that the FDA was aware of all of the forms of
administration and the risk, including IV push. Their
experts simply disagreed with the judgment that the
labeling requires. But most saliently, the labeling in
this case, which is reproduced, in sort of microscopic
size unfortunately, on the last two pages of the
petitioner appendix and the last two pages of the joint
appendix, have four separate reference that, as we
explained in footnote 11 of our reply brief, only apply
to IV push.
There is a reference to the use of the Tubex
system. That is a direct IV push system. There is a
reference to rigid plungers and small-bore needles.
Again nothing to do with drip. There is a reference to
a maximum rate of administration. Drip is gravity. The
testimony in the case was that an instruction that a
particular rate of administration not be exceeded only
referred to IV push. And finally, there are cautions on
the label about how the ordinary aspiration of blood to
see if its bright or dark, which is only done in the
context of a needle that is being used to push something
into a vein, is not reliable in the context of this case
because Phenergan discolors arterial blood immediately.
So the labeling plainly comprehended and
warned about the specific risks of IV push
administration, and that's not all. There is an
advisory -- an advisory committee in 1976 was asked to
look at precisely the risk of arterial exposure to
Phenergan injection or any other irritant drug that is
administered intravenously and it made specific
recommendations, including recommendations that go
directly to IV push.
JUSTICE ALITO: How could the -- how could
the FDA concluded that IV push was safe and effective
when on the benefit side of this you don't have a
life-saving drug, you have a drug that relieves nausea,
and on the risk side you have the risk of gangrene?
MR. WAXMAN: I mean, there was testimony --
Justice Alito, I can go over the testimony, but there
is -- there was testimony in this very case about those
very circumstances in which direct IV injection is
indicated. And there is also test -- there is also
evidence in the FDA record, including if you look at the
1987 correspondence that the FDA sent to Wyeth in the
context of talking about what warnings had to be
provided. The FDA provided Wyeth 20 citations to 20
medical journals that addressed this problem, and in
footnote 13 of our reply brief we've cited the ones that
specifically address the circumstances in which IV push
administration is an important tool. The point here is,
I think, that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that doesn't answer
the question of was it -- the risk of gangrene and
amputation is there. No matter what benefit there was,
how could the benefit outweigh that substantial risk?
MR. WAXMAN: Justice Ginsburg, this is
labeling that is directed at medical professionals. It
is labeling that is directed at physicians, who have to
be able to determine what method, what pharmaceutical
and what method of administration to use, given the
constellation of risks and benefits that a particular
patient --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The FDA was never
concerned with risks versus benefit?
MR. WAXMAN: The FDA -- well, the FDA
certainly is. And the issue, Justice Kennedy, here is
the FDA has to decide what information to provide to
clinicians so that they can make judgments about what to
use. And it -- what it did here is it provided ample,
lavish warnings about the risk of intra-arterial
injection and exposure of an irritant drug like
Phenergan to arterial blood. It provided in the
labeling to the physicians a cascading hierarchy of
methods of administration. It said intramuscular
injection is the preferred method. It then said with
respect to intravenous injection that it is, as with any
irritant drug, it is usually preferable to inject it
into an IV infusion set that is known to be running
properly, in other words where a line has already been
established into the vein and the IV push occurs into
the line that's already established.
All that information was available to
physicians and the FDA has to understand and does
understand that in labeling to allow medical
professionals to make their judgments, taking options
away from physicians is not always better. It may
not -- it may not even often be better. What the FDA
has to decide in terms of telling physicians what's on
the table and what's off the table and in terms of
what's on the table what the relevant risks are is, is
this ever -- would this ever be medically warranted?
The testimony in this case and in the administrative
record was yes, there are circumstances --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'd like you to
address the distinction between the medical device area
and the drug area because in the medical device area, of
course, you have an express pre-emption clause, while
here in contrast you don't.
MR. WAXMAN: Yes. I mean, I think,
Mr. Chief Justice, you've identified the respect in
which this is difference than the medical device area.
But for the salient purposes, I think the Riegel case
directly points the Court to the nature of the
determination that the FDA makes with respect to class 3
drugs. It goes through the same preclearance process.
As we pointed out in our brief and as I think Justice
Scalia's opinion in Riegel points out, the balancing
time-intensive, data- intensive inquiry for medical
devices was patterned after what is done for drugs, and
it reflects a balancing of risks and benefits of the
particular drug in light of the conditions and methods
of administration prescribed in the labeling.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If that's true you
would have expected the Federal Drug Act to have a
similar express pre-emption provision. And one reason
perhaps that it didn't is that when the Drug Act was
passed you had an established background of State
actions; when the Medical Device Act was passed you
didn't.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, let me address both the
established background of State actions and then the
pre-emption clause difference, if I may. The Respondent
and her amici have identified 97 cases going back 150
years in which tort actions have been brought with
respect to pharmaceuticals. Very few of those cases --
and they are recent -- are implicated by the rule that
the Vermont Supreme Court applied in this case, which is
where a fully informed FDA, informed of all the
information that Wyeth had, approved a labeling
standard, but a court looking at the same evidence can
reach a different conclusion about what is on the label.
The most -- those cases I believe all post-date
Cipollone. Many of them postdate Geier. And by my
count, there are fewer than 20 such cases out of all of
the cases that have been decided and those issues --
that issue had never come up and never could have come
up when Congress enacted the 1938 Act, because it was
only the 1938 Act that established a drug-specific,
preclearance regime, and really in 1962, in which the
FDA was required not just to evaluate safety in terms of
licensing the distribution of the drug, but to balance
safety against effectiveness.
And so the -- the constellation of common
law cases -- I mean, let me just say we are -- we are
not seeking here a rule of field preemption. We are not
seeking to preclude tort remedies for conduct that
violates Federal law.
What we are saying here is -- and this goes,
I think, finally to your point about the express
pre-emption clause -- the presence of expressed
pre-emption clauses or the absence, the presence of a
savings clause or the absence, does not and cannot
affect the operation of conflict pre-emption under the
Federal Constitution.
Now, members of this Court are concerned
about applying a broad, vague, or free-wheeling analysis
of implied conflict pre-emption, but this case is
heartland. A jury was asked to look at the same
information and conclude that the precise language that
the FDA just didn't allow, the FDA required Wyeth to
use, rendered that drug unreasonably unsafe.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it required it
because that is what the FDA had approved as a label.
But as -- excuse me -- as I understand it, the -- the
company, Wyeth, could have gone back to the FDA at any
time and said, either based on experience or just our
rethinking of the data that we have, we think the label
ought to be changed to say "Don't use IV push." Wyeth
could have done that at any time, and it simply didn't
do it.
And the -- the reason I raise this is
because it could have done it at any time, where, going
back to Justice Kennedy's first question, where is the
conflict?
MR. WAXMAN: The liability in this case was
not predicated on the fact that Wyeth didn't go to the
-- remember, the FDA had approved this label two years
before Miss Levine was injured. In approving the label,
it rejected stronger proposed language that Wyeth had
presented. There was nothing that was -- Wyeth was --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But as I understand it,
Wyeth's argument is not this argument. Wyeth is not
saying the reason there is a conflict here is that we
tried to give the kind of warning that the Vermont jury,
in effect, says we should have given and the FDA didn't
allow us to do it, so that, in fact, there is a conflict
between a specific rejection by the FDA of the Vermont
rule and the rule that the Vermont jury applied.
MR. WAXMAN: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: As I understand it, Wyeth's
argument is: Whatever is on the label, in fact, is the
standard of conflict. It doesn't matter whether we
tried or could have tried or didn't try. You simply
look at the label and you look at what the Vermont jury
did; and if there is a -- if there is a difference
between them, there is a conflict. Am I right about
your argument?
MR. WAXMAN: Yes, you are right. We -- we
have both an impossibility form of conflict because, in
the absence of any new information or new analyses of
old information, we could not make the change in advance
of getting approval. And we also have an -- an
objects-and-purposes form of conflict pre-emption
because the Vermont jury decided on the same information
that the labeling that the FDA had approved and required
was unreasonably unsafe.
And we cannot have a world in which the very
day after an intensive process -- the FDA says you may
distribute this drug, but you must use this specific
language -- either, A, manufacturers can just run in and
change the label and ask for permission down the road;
or, B, that a State jury -- let's take the easier case
-- a State legislature or 50 State legislatures can
decide: Because you could have gone back and asked, we
can impose an obligation on you that you must have done
so or must have changed the labeling. That just is
inconsistent with --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, is it -- is it strict
liability or negligence? In other words, are they
saying you must have done so, or are they saying because
you could have done so and didn't you did not conform to
the standard of care?
MR. WAXMAN: Either a negligence theory or a
strict-liability theory would be pre-empted.
May I reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The State law duties on which Respondent's
tort claims are based are pre-empted because they
conflict with the FDA's determination that Phenergan
injection is safe and effective under the conditions of
use recommended or suggested in the labeling.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler, at the
outset, would you clarify something that is central, I
think, to this case? Some of the briefs tell us that
this represents a change of policy on the part of the
FDA, that in fact the FDA once approved and said torts
were -- tort suits were a helpful adjunct to the FDA's
own efforts to protect consumers. They helped because
they prodded manufacturers to -- to disclose risks that
were either unknown or under- evaluated. Was that once
the FDA's policy; and, if so, when did it change?
MR. KNEEDLER: The -- the FDA, to my
knowledge, has never taken the position that -- that, as
a general matter, a manufacturer may change a label
without -- without the existence of new information that
justifies a revision. The Respondents and the amici
relied primarily on some snippets of rule-making
proceedings and things like that in which FDA has
referred to the existence of tort remedies. But we are
not arguing for the proposition that tort remedies are
-- are pre-empted as a general matter.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But when -- when would
there be a tort remedy? What -- what situation would
you envision?
MR. KNEEDLER: As Mr. Waxman mentioned, if
-- if the State standard was the same as the Federal
standard, there wouldn't be any conflict. And, for
example, if -- and not to mention the fact if there was
adulteration of -- of the product or if the -- if the
product in the box was not the same --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if they found out
about new information which would, if properly
considered, alter what the labeling ought to be? Would
there be a tort remedy for the failure to bring that new
information to the attention of --
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the position we are
arguing for here would not cover that situation, but --
but there could be a further situation of pre-emption,
if I could just explain why. I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You mean if you failed to
provide the FDA the new information that you think
negates the provisions on the -- on the label, you still
couldn't be sued?
MR. KNEEDLER: No. If you -- if you failed
to provide it altogether, there would not be a -- a
pre-emption defense if there were -- if your
failure-to-warn claim was based on the new information
that you didn't furnish.
I was -- I was going to identify the
situation where -- and this has come up in the anti-
depressant drug situation, for example, where there is
evolving information. There has been a rule- making
petition, in fact several over the years, to the FDA to
change the labeling to warn against -- to warn about the
possibility of suicidal ideation. And FDA has
rejected that even though it's -- it's new information
arising after the drug was approved. If the information
is brought to the FDA's attention and FDA rejects the
proposed change, then you would you have conflict
pre-emption again. But if the information was never
brought to the FDA's attention in the first place, then
-- then there would -- it would be not inconsistent with
Federal law to have a tort suit based on that. If it's
-- if it's been proposed and rejected, then you're back
with a conflict.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if -- what if you
brought it to the FDA's attention and the FDA just
hasn't acted on it? You would be authorized to change
the label on your own.
MR. KNEEDLER: You would be authorized, but
if FDA then rejects -- rejects the labeling --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand, but in the
interim, you could -- could you be subject to a State
tort suit for not changing the label when -- when you
had the power to do so?
MR. KNEEDLER: I -- if -- if FDA has taken
no action at all, then I think you -- you could be. I
this it's very likely that FDA would have acted by the
-- by the time that -- I mean, I suppose there could be
a window in there before it was approved.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why is that -- why is
that likely, considering the huge number of drugs? I
mean, one figure said that there are 11,000 drugs that
have this approval. Is the FDA really monitoring every
one of those to see if there is some new information
that should change the label?
MR. KNEEDLER: If I could make two points
about that: The first is, as I said, we are not arguing
that there is pre-emption in a situation where there is
new information that is not brought to FDA's attention.
But the second point is that in the 2007
amendments to the Act, Congress recognized the
difficulties with this and gave FDA important new
enforcement tools and resources to go after the problem
of things that arise after a drug is improved --
approved, that has given FDA the authority to direct a
change in the label, which it did not have before.
It has given the FDA the authority to order
new clinical studies, and it has ordered FDA to set up a
data system where it will get electronic notification of
-- of adverse events.
I -- I should point out in the -- in the one
year since these amendments were passed, FDA has, I -- I
think, in 21 instances ordered clinical trials. In four
instances it has ordered a revision of labeling. It has
hired 430 new employees in the Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research to address the post-marketing
situation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why isn't -- why isn't the
fact that some certain number of people are getting
gangrene, why isn't that new information?
MR. KNEEDLER: The risk -- the way FDA --
and this is set forth in the changes being affected
regulation amendment that was --
JUSTICE BREYER: That was all passed long
after the events here took place, I think.
MR. KNEEDLER: But -- but --
JUSTICE BREYER: So at the time, you read
the regulation, I think a person would think that he was
free drug manufacturer if he learned something new to
strengthen -- strengthens the contraindication, put it
in.
MR. KNEEDLER: As FDA explained in 2008,
when it promulgated this regulation, it's been FDA's
long-standing interpretation that only new information
would justify a change.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why wouldn't that be new?
MR. KNEEDLER: New information means new
information about a risk that is greater in severity or
frequency. If you have --
JUSTICE BREYER: If you get a certain number
of cases.
MR. KNEEDLER: There is no claim -- there is
no claim here that either of those -- in the record in
this case, that either of those was true.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's because nobody
brought up this new information point. So if nobody
brought up the new information point at the trial and if
the burden is on the manufacturer to show that it's
pre-empted, isn't that the manufacturer's fault, because
if you simply read the regulation, you wouldn't find any
of all this complicated stuff about certain kinds of new
information.
MR. KNEEDLER: That's a legal question not a
factual. And it was argued to the Vermont --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes it's a legal question.
MR. KNEEDLER: It was argued to the Vermont
Supreme Court, and I don't think -- I don't think that
Respondent -- Respondent has noted that it wasn't
raised, but I don't think it's argued that it's waived.
And I think for the Court to fully address this
situation, I think it would be good to take into account
FDA's -- certainly going forward that is the regulatory
regime --
JUSTICE BREYER: But we are not making an
advisory opinion. We are deciding this case. And this
case here you say new information of a certain kind
would be okay, nobody argued it. You read the reg, and
it doesn't seem to make all these distinctions end of
case. Since the manufacturer has the burden of going
into this, which apparently it didn't do. So, now we
have decided this case, and we go on to the next one.
MR. KNEEDLER: Okay. If I could make just
one further --
JUSTICE BREYER: What's your response to
that?
MR. KNEEDLER: If I could make one further
point about that. And that is the -- this act sets up a
prior approval situation. In other words, Congress
wanted the FDA to look at the drug in advance,
balance -- against benefits as this Court said in
Rutherford, and -- Brown & Williamson, strike a balance
and approve it.
It would be fundamentally inconsistent with
a prior approval system to have a regime in which the
very next day State law could require the manufacturer
to change the very labeling that FDA has struck a
balance --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't understand what
we're talking about here. The new information was not
brought up by either side --
MR. KNEEDLER: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- showing increased
frequency or increased severity?
MR. KNEEDLER: That's correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right?
And supposedly, it was burden of the drug
company to show --
MR. KNEEDLER: No. The drug company says
it's pre-empted, and the only escape hatch from the
preemption is new information.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You agree with -- you
agree with Mr. Waxman that the FDA specifically
addressed the risks and benefits of IV push as opposed
to the risks of arterial exposures?
MR. KNEEDLER: It specifically addressed in
the labeling that the FDA approved, and I think that's
all that needs to be looked at in -- it's just as in
Riegle, where the preemption turns on that device, in
that case, and the labeling that was presented. Here
the preemption turns on the labeling and the drug that
was presented. And FDA regulations prohibit the change
unless there is new information.
If I could make one other point about
Riegle. Riegle does contain an FDA -- an expressed
preemption provision. But the reason why this Court
found preemption in Riegle under that provision is very
instructive here, because as Mr. Waxman pointed out, the
premarket approval process in the two situations are
essentially the same.
And what you had on the one hand was Federal
action having the force of law like under the file rate
doctrine or some administrative determination having the
force of law approving a license or -- or a drug, a
legal prohibition against changing that without new
information. And on the state side, you have a rule of
law under the common law of torts imposing a different
obligation. Those are squarely termed --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're talking about
changing but you can supplement without changing the
label.
MR. KNEEDLER: No -- no, you cannot. Any --
any change in the wording of -- of the label is a change
that requires FDA approval unless it is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can supplement only
when there is new information?
MR. KNEEDLER: When there is new information
and even then, it has to be in the form of a new drug --
a supplemental drug application to the agency.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Kneedler.
Mr. Frederick.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. FREDERICK: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
I'd like to start with regulation 201.80,
which is set forth in an addendum to our brief at 19-A.
The second sentence of which reads: "The labeling shall
be revised -- this is after an applicant, a sponsor has
obtained approval of the drug label -- "it shall be
revised to include a warning as soon as there is
reasonable evidence of an association of a serious risk
with a drug. A causal relationship need not have been
proved."
The testimony at trial established that
Wyeth knew or should have known from at least the '70s
that there was a significance issue concerning IV push
risks.
And, Justice Alito, in answer to your
question --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Those -- those
risks were set forth on the labeling approved by the
FDA. Surely that sentence means it shall be revised to
include a warning as soon, as soon as there is
reasonable evidence of an association of a serious
hazard that the FDA has not considered. And that is not
already addressed on the labeling. I mean to read it
as -- as opening up stuff that's already been considered
by the FDA would -- would -- would make a -- a mush out
of it.
MR. FREDERICK: FDA never considered any
comparative risks of IV push versus IV drip. The
evidence on this was clear. Wyeth had a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about the
various portions of the label in the record that
Mr. Waxman addressed and Mr. Kneedler, representing the
FDA, said they specifically considered IV push risks?
MR. FREDERICK: What the evidence showed was
that FDA certainly was aware that there are different
forms of intravenous administration of drugs, but it
never considered that the risk of IV push so greatly
increased the risks of a catastrophic injury --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they have to.
When they determine that it's safe to use it under those
circumstances that necessarily includes a consideration
of the risk. People can say it's safe for you to walk
down the sidewalk. That doesn't mean there is no risk
that you get hit by lightning or something else. It
just means in evaluating them together, they determine
that it's worth the candle in particular cases where a
physician determines that that's the indicated method.
MR. FREDERICK: Mr. Chief Justice, here
there was no way FDA could have made this determination
because the risks of IV push are so catastrophic
compared to the benefit which the testimony at trial
showed --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you're just
contradicting the label. The fact is they could not
have approved that label unless they made that
determination.
Now, if you're telling me the FDA acted
irresponsible -- irresponsibly, then sue the FDA.
MR. FREDERICK: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the labeling made it
very clear that the preferred method of administering
this medicine was -- was -- was muscular and -- and that
there were serious risks involved in -- in the IV push.
Moreover, your client didn't follow the
labeling or your client's physician didn't follow the
labeling prescription for IV push, did he?
MR. FREDERICK: The testimony at trial
showed that the doctor acted with a standard of care
that was not negligent, and that was based on expert
testimony.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. No. Wait, wait. He
administered a -- a level of the drug that was vastly in
excess of -- of -- of what the labeling said could
safely be used for IV push.
MR. FREDERICK: And the testimony at trial
showed that that had no bearing on her injury,
because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Had no bearing. Are you
serious?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes. It did. The testimony
at trial from Dr. Green disputed that point. Both
courts below rejected that notion.
But the idea that a label is set in stone
for all time misunderstands the way the process works.
When FDA approves a drug with a drug label, it does so
on the basis of small clinical trials with very few,
sometimes as few as a thousand or a couple of thousand
people. And when the drug is marketed and goes to lots
and lots of people that are not healthy, that are in
different conditions, new problems arise. That's why
the general -- the GAO found that over 51 percent of
drugs have adverse drug events not known.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You established that there
were new problems? I mean, if there were new problems,
then -- then they could have simply supplemented the
labeling. But did you establish that there were
problems that had not been considered already by the
FDA?
I mean, the labeling says, you know, that
this is dangerous to use -- use IV push. It made it
very clear that it's dangerous.
MR. FREDERICK: That was not our burden and
that was not how the testimony came in at trial. But as
the amicus brief by Dr. Budhwani, et al. at pages 54
establishes had Wyeth been a reasonably prudent
manufacturer over the years, it would have known that
the risks of IV push so far outweigh any bearing
negligible benefits, that it would have offered a
stronger instruction, it would have moved to revise its
label either with FDA approval or --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It proposed a more
restrictive label to the FDA, didn't it? And the FDA
said, no, you use this label. In other words, it's --
what you're saying was not its call. It was the call of
the FDA.
MR. FREDERICK: Footnote one of the Vermont
Supreme Court's opinion disputes that point, because it
says the label was different. And if you compare what
was submitted to FDA versus what FDA looked at, there
was no reference to IV push risks creating the risk of
catastrophic harm versus negligible, Justice Scalia.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your -- I
thought your theory was that this type of administration
of the drug should not be allowed. The label should not
say here are the risks, here are the benefits. You --
your jury theory was you cannot suggest in the labeling
that physicians should have this available.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, as the jury was
instructed, Mr. Chief Justice, and the evidence came in
at trial, it was -- it was somewhat larger than that in
the sense that a State failure to warn claim doesn't
prescribe particular wording. It simply says that the
existing wording is inadequate. And if the case comes
to this Court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it simply says
that if you go ahead with the label like this, you don't
have to pay $10 million whenever it comes wrong. That's
having the effect, as our case has established, imposing
a limitation on the label.
MR. FREDERICK: But the label itself is not
set in stone, Mr. Chief Justice. Manufacturers change
their labels all the time as new drug risks come in.
And the regulations provide that the manufacturer is
responsible not only for the label, but for monitoring
post-market information.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your case depends
upon us determining that the risk at issue here that was
presented to the jury was a new risk that the FDA did
not consider?
MR. FREDERICK: No. It's not dependent on
that at all, Mr. Chief Justice. It is dependent on a
finding that the manufacturer had a duty of due care and
it didn't live up to that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if it referred to new
drug risks, then, in your preceding sentence, where you
are saying manufacturers change it all the time as new
drug risks become apparent?
MR. FREDERICK: The testimony --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What you mean is whether or
not new drug risks become apparent, they have to change,
right?
MR. FREDERICK: The question is what does
the manufacturer know and when did this manufacturer
know it? And here, the testimony at trial showed that
an antinausea drug called Vistrol -- this is at page 79
of the joint appendix -- caused amputations in two
cases. Pfizer voluntarily removed IV push injection for
that drug. This was information in Wyeth's files; Wyeth
knew this from the 1970s; and yet it did nothing to
change the Phenergan label.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Suppose --
JUSTICE SOUTER: With respect to the
obligation in this case, may I go back to an earlier
question that Justice Scalia asked you? And I -- I --
if you responded to this particular point, I didn't get
it.
He said that he understood that Wyeth had in
fact asked the FDA to modify the label, at least to
strengthen the warning against IV push, and that request
was -- was denied, so that in fact that -- that created
the conflict. What is your response to -- to the
factual basis for that -- for that comment?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, the FDA itself said in
the Solicitor General's brief at page 25 that it was
deemed to be a nonsubstantive change. These were
changes that were being made --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, regardless of what
their, their semantic label was, was there a request at
least to -- to beef up the warning against using IV
push? And if so, did the -- did the FDA reject it and
say no, you can't do that.
MR. FREDERICK: It was a different label and
it was a different strength of warning, but it didn't
have to do with the relative risks and benefits of IV
push versus IV drip.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What would it --
MR. FREDERICK: That was the crucial point.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What would it have said?
MR. FREDERICK: This is set out at footnote
1 of the Vermont Supreme Court opinion, which is set out
in the joint -- in the petition appendix at pages 4a to
5a, and it goes on for two pages. But essentially what
the -- what the comparison was was talking about the
preferability of injecting it through the tubing of an
intravenous infusion set that is known to be functioning
satisfactorily, which would suggest to most medical
practitioners and was it the case in the trial testimony
given by Dr. Green below, that that would suggest an IV
drip, not IV push.
When FDA then rejected it for -- for
nonsubstantive reasons, it went back to the prior
verbiage which is set out at 5a, which simply says if
you put this drug in an artery the concentration can be
such that it will -- it will cause harm.
But our point is that these kinds of risks
come to light frequently with drugs that are on the
market and the need to revise these labels is the duty
of the manufacturer. Section 314. --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you -- you also, to be
clear on it, as I understand it, you do not accept the
position that the FDA puts forward, that the obligation
depends upon the accrual of new information.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, how you --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Any information, new or
old, as I understand it, on your argument raises this
obligation to -- to act.
MR. FREDERICK: I think that the dispute is
-- is what constitutes new information, because we don't
take issue with the notion that new information can be
new analysis of prior submitted data; and what the
amicus brief by Dr. Budhwani et al. Points out is that
there was a lot of unpublished information about the
harms of Phenergan that was known to Wyeth or should
have been known to Wyeth in the '80s and '90s that would
have justified a change under the CEE regulations.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose the record
showed that the FDA clearly considered whether IV push
should be contraindicated and concluded it should not be
and prescribed the label that now appears on the drug;
and then, as some of the other arguments have
referenced, the very day after the FDA made that ruling,
Ms. Levine was injured. Would you still -- would she
still have a claim in your view, a non-pre-empted claim?
MR. FREDERICK: That be pre-empted. And the
reason it would be pre-empted is because the FDA would
have considered and rejected on the basis of the same
information or similar information the very duty that
underlies the State claim.
JUSTICE ALITO: So your argument is -- is
predicated on the existence of new information. If
there was no new information, then the claim is
pre-empted?
MR. FREDERICK: No, it's -- well, it is
not -- I think there are two things to keep analytically
clear. One is can the manufacturer come forward with a
label change on the basis of -- of information that is
assessing the risk or reassessing the risk, and under
the -- under the regulations it's absolutely clear it
can do that before FDA has approved it. It is subject
to FDA disapproval.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and is entitled to
amend the labeling automatically.
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I envision a -- a scheme
under which manufacturers who are worried about jury
liability of -- of the magnitude that occurred in this
case saying, gee, why should we take chances? And every
time there is a jury verdict on some -- on some other --
some other ground not -- not prohibited by the label,
they just add that to the label; and they submit it
to -- to the FDA and the -- and until -- unless and
until the FDA conducts an investigation and disapproves
that label, that labeling change occurs.
How many -- how many -- you mentioned a
number of -- of times that -- that label alterations
are -- are proposed. I mean, this is going to be a
massive operation for the FDA.
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Scalia, that would
promote public safety, because it puts into the hands of
doctors the information that enables them to make
individualized risk determinations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It would not promote public
safety if you believe that the name of this game is
balancing benefits and costs.
MR. FREDERICK: And Congress said --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if you are simply
eliminating certain drugs which people who -- who have
real desperate need for could -- could be benefited by,
you're not benefiting the public.
MR. FREDERICK: No, and in fact that's
contrary to the policy determination Congress made. In
the misbranding provision, which is Section 352(f), it
calls -- that the label is misbranded unless its
labeling bears adequate directions for use and such
adequate warnings against use in those pathological
conditions or by children where its use may be dangerous
to health or against unsafe dosage or methods or
duration of administration or application.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that applies even if
it's approved by the FDA?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes. It's misbranded. And
in the 1979 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying FDA approval
doesn't -- doesn't give you any protection at all?
MR. FREDERICK: It -- it provides you a
basis for marketing your --- your product.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but -- but the
marketing may be a misbranding?
MR. FREDERICK: In -- the FDA itself said so
in 1979 in 44 Federal Register, which we cite in our
brief, that even an original label may be misbranded if
the drug manufacturer subsequently learns that it was
not adequate for the safe use of the drug.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well then, gee, then all of
the qualifications you were making earlier about whether
it's new information or a new assessment, that's
irrelevant.
MR. FREDERICK: No, it's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying whenever it's
unsafe, whatever the FDA has approved, you have a
lawsuit.
MR. FREDERICK: No. What I'm saying is that
the information developed after the original label is
approved, and it is not a floor and a ceiling --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There -- there was nothing
about new information in what you just said. You said
it's misbranded if it's not safe, new information or
not.
MR. FREDERICK: And that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that -- is that -- is
that your position?
MR. FREDERICK: Our position is that the
duty is on the manufacturer to make a safe label, and if
the label is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But getting to Justice
Scalia's point, as I understand your answer to an
earlier question, on the day that the FDA approves the
label, if there is no further information indicating
danger, then any liability that is based upon what the
-- the kind of information that the FDA knew would be
pre-empted. The only time -- you're saying pre-emption
does not occur when there is -- forget the word "new"
for a moment -- when there is further information,
information in addition to what the FDA was told,
whether it's 1,000 years old or discovered yesterday;
and if there is liability predicated on further
information beyond what the FDA was told, then there is
not pre-emption.
Is that a fair statement of your position?
MR. FREDERICK: That's fair, but let me just
make clear that our test would require the FDA to
consider and reject the specific basis on which the
State law --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If that's a fair statement
then you have to retract your -- your earlier assertion
that whenever it's not safe it's misbranded. I mean --
MR. FREDERICK: I'm not going to retract
that, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- which is it? Whenever
it's not safe, it's misbranded, or what you just
responded to Justice Souter?
MR. FREDERICK: The basis -- the basis of
the FDA's approval is on the basis of limited
information, which Congress has said for public safety
reasons -- we are not doing a balancing here; we are
doing this for public safety --
And if the label is not adequate for public
safety it is a misbranded drug.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, but if -- if the
so-called misbranding is determined to be misbranding,
based upon information which was given to the FDA, as I
understand your position, you would admit that there was
pre-emption.
MR. FREDERICK: I -- I think there is
pre-emption, but that does not mean --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. So there --
MR. FREDERICK: Maybe there is no --
JUSTICE SOUTER: In other words, there is
that one exception at least to the broad statement that
you gave in answer to Justice Scalia?
MR. FREDERICK: Let me try to untangle it
this way. The fact that there is pre-emption and you
cannot bring as State law failure-to-warn claim doesn't
mean that the drug isn't misbranded under the Federal
standard the FDA --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the -- but the
misbranding is of no consequence to liability.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, if --
JUSTICE SOUTER: In other words, I think
you're saying if there -- if there would be pre-emption
it may be misbranded, but there cannot be any recovery
in a State tort suit.
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. The -- the
point --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. So misbranding under
those circumstances is a purely theoretical concept.
MR. FREDERICK: In that very hypothetical,
yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. FREDERICK: But the point is that the
failure is that the failure-to-warn claim tracks the
misbranding provision; and if you look at the jury
instructions in this case, the wording is very close to
the wording of the misbranding provision in terms of the
adequacy of the warning that must be provided.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Frederick --
MR. FREDERICK: All State law is doing is
providing a remedy that is absent from Federal law.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Frederick, I'd like to
put the misbranding point to one side and just
concentrate on pre-emption. And I understood you to
agree with Justice Alito that there is a hypothetical
case in which there would be pre-emption, and would you
tell me what particular fact distinguishes your case
from his hypothetical?
MR. FREDERICK: The fact is there was no
consideration and rejection of a stronger IV push
warning. There was no consideration by the FDA of IV
push as a means of administration distinct from other
intravenous forms that would lead to a different kind of
risk-benefit balancing. So with the -- in the case
where there would be pre-emption, FDA would be asked, we
-- we want to put a stronger warning as against this --
FDA says: We don't think there is scientific evidence.
Do not put that warning on the label.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So now, your friends
on the other side said there was specific consideration
of IV push as opposed to simply arterial exposure, and
that that is laid forth in the labeling. So, as I
understood your answer to be, all we have to do is
simply look at the record, and if we think the FDA
considered specifically IV push risks as opposed to
general arterial exposure, then you lose, and if we
determine that they did not, then they lose.
MR. FREDERICK: And the Vermont Supreme
Court was quite emphatic about this, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I don't know
if the Vermont Supreme Court was emphatic about it. I
mean, the record is either -- addresses the FDA -- I'm
more interested in what the FDA was emphatic about, and
they either address IV push separately or they don't.
MR. FREDERICK: And you search in the joint
appendix in vain for communications between Wyeth and
FDA communicating about the particular risks of IV push.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What -- can you turn to
the references that Mr. Waxman and Mr. Kneedler made?
They said oh, yes, IV push was considered discretely
from IV drip bags.
MR. FREDERICK: I will acknowledge that the
references in some instances suggest IV push. There is
no doubt that the FDA knew that IV push was a method of
intravenous administration, but our point is a starker
one, and that is that the FDA never was put to the test
of deciding comparative risks and benefits of IV push
versus IV drip. And it's that point that is crucial,
because the catastrophic risks of IV push are so
dramatic, no reasonable person could have made a safety
determination to allow this drug with its risks when
there are corresponding benefits that create exactly the
same kind of treatment of care for the patient.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, is your argument that
they couldn't have considered these comparative risks,
because if they had, they would have come out
differently; because they didn't come out differently,
we have to infer that they didn't consider it?
MR. FREDERICK: It's two things: One, they
didn't consider it and that's clearly --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, I --
MR. FREDERICK: Second,
JUSTICE SOUTER: Apart from your analysis
that they couldn't have or they would have come out
differently, how did we know that they didn't consider
it?
MR. FREDERICK: There are communications
that went back and forth between the company. These are
set out in the joint appendix. They make no reference
to IV push risks as distinct from --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And do these -- when you
say "communications," do you mean starting with the
original application for approval of the label?
MR. FREDERICK: The original application
actually is not known. It wasn't in Wyeth's files.
This drug was approved in 1955. We don't know where the
original label was, Justice Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So, you are saying all the
correspondence that we do know about, that is extant,
fails to mention comparative risk.
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the label doesn't. I
mean, the label ask discusses the high risk from IV push
and sets forth particular cautions for that -- for that
specific means of administration.
MR. FREDERICK: It does not, Justice Scalia.
The label says -- it's talking about intravenous
administration. It does not distinguish between IV drip
and IV push. And Dr. Matthew testified at trial that,
based on the label, he would not have been able to make
a treatment determination to distinguish between the
two, and that had he had that information, he clearly
would have given this drug to Diana Levine through the
intravenous drip method. The label simply didn't --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we conclude that new
information is the criterion for deciding this case, if
we reject the argument that misbranding at the outset
allows State law to supplement the duty, but that if
there's new information, then the label has to be
changed -- if it that's the line we draw, can this
verdict be sustained?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, I think it can be
sustained on the basis of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And the Vermont court's
opinion?
MR. FREDERICK: I don't think that the
Vermont Supreme Court's opinion totally, because it does
go into the area that you're talking about, Justice
Kennedy, but if I could refer the Court to trial record
testimony, which is set out in the joint appendix and
more elaborately in the trial record itself, which makes
clear that Wyeth knew or should have known about these
comparative risks. It should have had a basis for
changing its label or proposing to FDA a different
label, and that would be sufficient to satisfy the
Federal standards as well as the State duty of due care.
And we think the judgment on that basis could be
sustained.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this: When did
the duty on the part of Wyeth to have a different label
arise, in your view?
MR. FREDERICK: I think it probably arose in
the early '70s when a -- when there was a published --
or there was an incident --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Did it arise before or
after submitting the original drug application?
MR. FREDERICK: A strong argument can be
made that it would have been before the 1970s
application when they were reformatting. These are old
drugs. We don't have evidence from the 1950s that would
have suggested that the original label determination in
1955 would have caused a difference but certainly by the
1970s when -- when Wyeth was reformatting this as an old
drug to comply with new standards, it should have known
and it certainly should have known by the 1990s when
several amputations had occurred from IV push Phenergan,
which were in Wyeth's files. The people who analyzed
these records, you know, were emphatic that Wyeth knew
or should have known by the 1990s. And that was clear
by the testimony of experts that -- that showed the
comparison between Vistrol and Phenergan and on the
basis of the IV push injuries that had occurred that
were nonpublished. They appeared to have been reported
to FDA, but Wyeth never took the trouble to do the
synthesis, to connect the dots between these very
terrible tragedies that had occurred from its drug, to
bring about a labeling change or a modification that
would have saved lives. And that is a failure on the
part of the manufacturer not to comply with its
standards of due care and with the regulations which
require health risk information to be the basis of
modifications to the labeling.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Does that boil down to a
claim that there was new information that was available
between the original approval and the time of the
lawsuit?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, by "original
approval," do you mean 1955 or do you mean in 1998 and
2000?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Either one. But is your
theory really a theory based on new information or new
judgment about old information?
MR. FREDERICK: It would be on the basis, I
think, of both. I think we would be able to establish
that there was a justification on the basis of
information before the reformatted labeling took place,
and that was testimony by Dr. Green at trial on the
basis of Vistrol, the other amputation that had occurred
with Phenergan in 1965.
And the -- the important point here is that
on the basis of new information, if you are going to
conclude that there is a standard that has to be met, I
would urge you to consider two things: One is that the
burden of showing absence of new information is going to
fall on the manufacturer because it is asserting a
pre-emption defense, but the way pre-emption gets argued
in the courts, it is done oftentimes before discovery is
permitted. So, if there is information in the drug
manufacturer's files that would be relevant to a
determination of the breach of duty by the drug
manufacturer, if you decide pre-emption has to be done
before discovery can be done, there would be no way to
get that information.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, to put the burden on
the manufacturer seems to me inconsistent with what 10
States have said, that there is a rebuttable presumption
and inconsistent also with the instructions the jury
received in this case, that you can consider the FDA
label. So, I think, to me, what you say there is not
borne out by what happened in this case or by those
other States' --
MR. FREDERICK: Well, let me -- let me
address that question because your question goes to the
regulatory compliance defense and that is not a
pre-emption defense. It is a defense based on State law
that the manufacturer in fact was not negligent because
it complied with the applicable regulations. In that --
under that scenario, Justice Kennedy, the plaintiff is
going to be able to obtain discovery and make arguments
to the trial court about whether or not that compliance
negated or did not negate negligence. But pre-emption
is a Federal defense that would be asserted typically at
the outset of the lawsuit before information is
obtained. And notably, before 2000, FDA did not have
subpoena power of drug manufacturers. It did not have
the power to force labeling changes. It didn't even
have the power to force drug manufacturers to make
post-marketing studies.
JUSTICE BREYER: The --the part I'm trying
to figure out is this: Suppose it was before trial. I
don't care, before or after. The plaintiff comes in
with a claim. All right. Manufacturer: That's
pre-empted. The claim is that you should have told the
FDA and added something to your label.
Manufacturer: That's preempted. Plaintiff: Well, you
haven't read this reg here. The reg here which has been
in existence since 1965 says that we can go and add
something. I mean you can go and add something to show
a contra indication, and that's the end of it.
Now, in fact, 30 years later, I guess,
without the horrible things happening that Justice
Scalia mentioned, or maybe they did -- I don't know.
But 30 years later the FDA makes another mention of new
information. I take it that's in 1982. That's the
first time that happened.
Now, if I'm right about that, what happens
when no one says a word about that? Of course, if the
manufacturer had said something about that, then maybe
the plaintiff would have said: And it was new. It was
new, but the manufacturer doesn't say a word. Are you
following what I'm saying?
MR. FREDERICK: I'm not totally, Justice
Breyer, I confess, but let me try to address it this
way.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I'm wondering still
what happens. I believe what happened here is that in
the argument in the lower courts, in the trial court,
nobody said anything about the FDA's claim that the
information necessary to just go ahead and change the
label had to be new. Am I right about that?
MR. FREDERICK: You are absolutely right
about that.
JUSTICE BREYER: So what I'm trying to
figure out -- and I don't know if "burden of proof" is
the right word -- where nobody says a word about it, who
wins? If they had said a word about it, you need new
information, maybe the manufacturer -- the plaintiff
could have shown that the manufacturer had new
information.
MR. FREDERICK: I think the duty is always
going to be on the manufacturer, Justice Breyer. The
regulations at 314.80(b) establish that the -- that the
manufacturer has the responsibility to do post-
marketing analysis and post-marketing surveys to
determine the continuing safety of its drugs. If the
manufacturer doesn't do that, it isn't complying with
the Federal regulations which have an ongoing duty on
them.
And so in the case where there is silence, I
would respectfully submit the manufacturer is not
complying with its regulatory duty to ensure that there
is current information about all of the side- effect
risks of its drugs.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Waxman, you have three minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. WAXMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I want to make -- I do want to go to -- make a
preliminary point about all the talk about misbranding
here. The statute has two criminal prohibitions. One
is misbranding, which is the original 1906 reactive
penalty. If the FDA subsequently finds that something
is false or misleading, it CAN come after you for
misbranding. But this case involves the criminal
prohibition against distributing drugs for which there
is not an approved, effective application. And that's
what's at stake here.
Now, the notion that there was any -- any
misunderstanding in the trial court about whether there
was new information or whether there was -- there were
incidents that the FDA didn't know about, or it didn't
evaluate the risk, is just flat wrong. The plaintiff
tried this -- the plaintiff's experts said the FDA knew
about this risk. Wyeth knew about this risk for
decades.
That is what is so wrong. That is why he
stood up and said the FDA doesn't decide this question.
You decide this question. And there was never, ever a
suggestion in the record in this case, nor could there
have been, that Wyeth ever failed to bring every single
adverse-event report to the FDA's attention, every
analysis that it did to the FDA's attention.
And what the record does show is that after
-- between the time of the 1955 approval of the new-drug
application and the 1998 rejection of the SDNA, the
Supplemental New -- SNDA, the Supplemental New Drug
Application, that did have more extensive, stronger
warnings in this case, Wyeth filed five -- and these are
all in the joint appendix -- five supplemental, new-drug
applications, each one asking for more language, more
warnings, about direct IV injection. It's not called
"push." It's IV injection versus drip, which is a
gravity method. And, in fact, Mr. Frederick
says: Well, you know, in this case there could have
been stronger warnings, and that -- and this case wasn't
really about -- the jury wasn't really asked to -- it
didn't really say that the label had to contra indicate
something that the FDA-labeling required.
That is exactly the opposite of what the
trial lawyer told the jury at opening and at closing.
What he said is this was unreasonably unsafe because it
didn't say: Do not use by intravenous administration.
With respect to whether or not the warning
-- the last SNDA which we submitted, which was in 1987
and is reprinted in the joint appendix -- not only is it
an original, but there is a typewritten version that
actually has the text in the type size that one can
actually read. At the summary-judgment stage that the
pre-emption issue was decided -- may I finish my answer?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MR. WAXMAN: Summary judgment was decided at
the -- pre-emption was decided at summary judgment
before trial. So there was no evidence about what was
new or wasn't new. In Ms. Levine's motion for summary
judgment, she uses the word "new" information about
labeling change. And, with respect to the proposed 1987
language, the '88 change that we asked for, she said --
and I'm reading from page 24 of her motion for summary
judgment -- "In 1988, Wyeth drafted changes to the
warning which advised that the use of a free-flowing IV
would ensure adequate dilution and reduce the risk of
arterial injectia. Although not strong enough, this
improved the labeling instruction; if followed, would
have prevented the inadvertent administration of
Phenergan into an artery for the reasons described."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, the case was submitted.)
48:18 4:19 5:17 6:5,7 amicus 1:19 2:6 apply 5:24 asked 6:17
8:14 10:2 33:18 approval 13:17 31:11,15 41:9
13:15 36:10 41:6 amputation 22:2 23:11 asking 52:21
42:14 44:4,7 7:19 47:12 24:1,18 28:22 aspiration 6:9
9:7 23:15 analyses 13:15 47:2 52:15 assertion 38:17
21:22 34:16 17:9 18:7,23 attention 16:12
18:19 28:4 answer 7:17 26:17 34:21 18:17 52:12,13
33:13 adverse-event 25:2 37:23 36:12 37:7,11 authority 18:23
27:5 advised 54:1 53:15 approves 27:22 authorized
21:8 antinausea 31:2 approving 4:14 automatically
agency 24:6 apparent 30:19 area 9:10,11,11 available 8:22
22:19,20 40:24 apparently argue 3:21 aware 5:2,16
al 28:16 33:18 1:14 arguing 15:22
10:10 34:11 40:24 appendix 5:22 2:2,10 3:3,6 back 10:13 12:5
21:3 42:3 allow 8:24 11:25 5:23 31:3 12:22,22 13:6 12:13 14:4
50:2 13:1 42:20 32:13 42:5 13:12 14:18 17:16 31:10
25:10 allows 44:17 52:20 53:11 34:11 42:23 background
alter 16:10 applicable 48:16 44:16 45:21 10:7,11
39:4 altogether 16:22 43:17,18 45:20 arising 17:9 14:15 21:23,24
amend 34:24 45:23 51:22 arose 45:16 22:5
6:20 27:9 amendments 52:21 41:15,20 54:3 39:2 41:8
16:24 24:15 28:16 52:10,19,25 24:12 25:17 49:5
27:6 31:21 33:18 53:1 54:8,9 26:1,10 29:9 comment 3:21
39:8 44:9 36:23 cases 10:13,15 29:16,22 30:3 31:19
48:14 briefs 15:6 10:22,24,25 30:8,13 31:8 committee 6:17
34:8,18 bring 16:11 31:4 51:9,13 53:16 23:19
38:14,24 39:20 46:16 catastrophic 54:7 communicating
44:22 52:11 25:25 26:12 children 36:8 42:6
46:11 broad 11:21 29:8 42:18 Cipollone 10:23 communicatio...
47:7,9 39:16 causal 24:21 circumstances 42:5 43:11,16
brought 10:14 cause 33:1 7:6,14 9:8 26:3 company 12:5
28:19 18:17 20:14,15 cautions 6:8 citations 7:11 comparative
2:4,6,9,12 33:18 Center 19:8 20:10,11 29:18 compared 26:13
14:19 burden 20:16 central 15:5 34:5,5,10,13 comparison
51:12 21:12 22:14 certain 5:2 39:20 40:13 32:15 46:10
50:5 48:3 50:13 21:9 35:24 50:7 completely 3:25
8:4 C 21:5 25:22 clarify 15:5 48:13,19
C 1:21 2:1,8 3:1 46:1,4 class 9:19 complicated
22:21 52:22 15:16 17:6,11 clear 5:8 25:16 4:11 46:3,18
29:12 calls 36:5 17:20 18:13,24 26:23 28:13 complying
35:21 candle 26:8 20:3 22:4 23:4 33:7 34:17,20 50:25 51:5
care 14:12 27:5 23:25,25 30:3 38:13 45:6 comprehended
cascading 8:13 46:16 50:8 client 27:1 concentration
20:4,8 21:12,14 23:2 changing 18:1 53:6 concerns 3:10
21:7 29:20,25 30:8 23:17,22,22 come 11:1,1 conclude 11:24
49:3 31:10 32:19 45:8 17:2 30:4 33:3 44:14 47:16
35:4 40:15,25 Chief 3:3,8 9:9 34:17 42:25 concluded 6:24
9:21 48:7,9 51:3,20 14:16,22 24:7 comes 29:20,24 conclusion
continuing crucial 32:9 9:19 15:1 discovery 47:21
15:2 28:2 contra 4:20 curiae 1:19 2:7 36:3 42:20 discreetly 5:3
49:13 53:3 14:20 44:10 45:25 discretely 42:9
12:14 contraindicati... danger 38:1 26:2,7 41:21 distinct 41:6
13:1,7 19:23 dangerous 3:19 50:24 43:14
contrary 36:3 28:12,13 36:8 determined 3:17 distinction 9:10
16:4 contrast 9:13 dark 6:10 4:16 39:7 distinctions
31:18 contra-indicate data 9:23 12:7 determines 26:9 21:11
21:21 34:25 40:5 24:10 developed 37:10 distinguishes
36:3 43:25 day 13:23 22:3 device 9:10,11 41:1
correspondence 34:3 37:24 9:16 10:8 23:1 distribute 13:24
42:21 14:4 47:25 difference 9:16 distribution
38:14 counsel 14:16 decided 10:25 46:1 doctor 27:5
47:17 51:9 54:7 13:19 21:14 different 10:21 doctors 35:17
count 10:24 53:15,17,18 23:19 25:22 doctrine 23:15
41:4,5,14 course 9:12 42:16 44:15 32:5 41:7 45:8 40:19
25:9,11 court 1:1,12 3:9 deemed 31:22 differently 43:1 dots 46:14
9:18 10:17,20 defense 16:23 43:1,9 doubt 42:13
33:24 11:20 14:23 47:20 48:13,14 difficulties Dr 27:18 28:16
41:19 20:25 21:3,23 48:14,21 18:20 32:20 33:18
23:8 29:21 demonstrate 5:7 dilution 54:2 44:8 47:11
45:3 48:19 Department 18:23 52:22 dramatic 42:19
47:21 50:6 30:12,13 directly 6:22 25:15 32:7,21
44:23 45:1 33:9 disagreed 5:18 44:13 52:23
create 42:21 Deputy 1:17 34:22 8:11,17 9:11
creating 29:7 54:6 35:9 12:1 13:24
criterion 44:15 determination discovered 38:7 22:14,16 23:3
27:9 13:25 14:13 45:24 53:19 29:18 40:13 17:10,13,19
15:12 20:11,12 evolving 17:4 46:17 18:17 20:1
29:11 22:8 28:22 exactly 42:21 failure-to-warn 21:5 38:25
42:1,3 47:4 53:5 16:24 39:20 50:7 52:12,13
32:25 elaborately 45:5 example 16:5 40:13 FDA-labeling
36:24,25 electronic 19:2 17:3 fair 38:11,12,16 53:4
42:20 eliminating exceeded 6:7 fall 47:19 Federal 3:23 4:4
44:12 35:24 exception 39:16 false 51:19 4:12,13 10:4
46:3,15 emphatic 41:23 excess 27:10 far 28:19 11:12,19 16:3
48:24 41:25 42:2 excuse 12:4 25:4 fault 20:17 17:15 23:13
52:17 46:7 existence 15:17 FDA 3:12,17,18 36:22 39:21
25:23 enables 35:17 49:11 6:24 7:8,9,11 48:21 51:1
33:3 enacted 11:2 existing 29:20 8:3,5,5,7,23 fewer 10:24
45:24 enforcement expected 10:4 9:2,19 10:18 field 11:10
51:7,21 18:21 experience 12:6 11:5,25,25 figure 18:10
entitled 34:23 experts 5:15,18 13:2,20,23 file 23:14
35:1 explain 16:16 16:18 17:5,7 files 31:5 43:19
37:20 essentially 23:12 8:11 41:15,20 19:5,14,25 finding 30:14
45:10,14 32:14 exposures 22:22 21:22 22:4,20 finds 51:18
50:19 establish 28:8 express 9:12 22:24 23:4,7 finish 53:15
47:8 50:21 10:5 11:14 24:1 25:6,9,12 first 3:4 5:14
8:21 10:7,11 23:7 26:11,19,20 18:15 49:19
24:23 extant 43:23 27:22 28:10,22 five 52:19,20
38:17 et 28:16 33:18 fact 3:18 12:16 32:22 33:8,24 followed 54:4
14:18 evaluating 3:16 31:15,17 36:2 37:7,24 38:2,6 32:11
51:6 Evaluation 19:9 48:15 49:14 39:22 41:5,9 48:25 49:1
15:2 events 19:3,18 factual 20:22 42:2,6,13,15 form 13:14,18
28:4 31:19 45:8 46:13 24:5
10:20 24:20 52:11 49:17 51:18 25:23 41:7
43:12 21:16,19 37:25 ground 35:6 29:25 37:3,10,13,14
38:5,8 guess 49:14 impossibility 37:25 38:2,5,6
34:17 G H impossible 3:21 44:11,15,18
game 35:20 hands 35:16 54:4 47:6,10,15,18
24:9,10,12 GAO 28:3 happening inadvertent 50:18 51:6
26:10 gee 35:4 37:1 49:15 54:5 52:1 53:21
27:4,12 Geier 10:23 happens 49:20 incident 45:18 informed 10:18
28:14 general 1:17 50:5 incidents 52:2 10:18
30:2 15:16,23 28:3 harm 29:8 33:1 include 24:19 infusion 8:18
41:20 harms 33:20 25:7 32:17
32:4,9 General's 5:9 hatch 22:17 includes 26:3 inject 8:17
33:10,14 31:21 hazard 25:9 including 3:15 injectia 54:3
getting 13:17 health 36:9 5:15,17 6:21 injecting 32:16
36:2 19:12 37:22 46:20 7:8 injection 3:13
Ginsburg 4:22 healthy 28:1 inconsistent 3:16 6:19 7:6
4:24 5:5 7:17 hear 3:3 14:7 17:14 8:11,15,16
7:21 15:4 18:8 heartland 11:23 22:1 48:4,6 15:2 31:4
42:7 helped 15:10 increased 22:10 52:22,23
give 12:24 36:16 helpful 15:9 22:11 25:25 injured 12:18
41:3 given 7:25 12:25 hierarchy 8:13 indicate 53:3 34:4
42:4,11 18:23,25 32:20 high 44:2 indicated 7:7 injuries 46:11
39:8 44:12 hired 19:8 26:9 injury 25:25
44:5,21 go 6:21 7:4 hit 26:6 indicating 37:25 27:13
45:16,21 12:16 18:21 horrible 49:15 indication 49:13 inquiry 9:23
48:11 21:14 29:23 huge 18:9 individualized instances 19:6,7
31:10 45:2 hypothetical 35:18 42:12
49:11,12 50:8 40:9,24 41:2 infer 43:2 instructed 29:16
27:25 32:14 idea 27:20 10:19 11:24 instructions
going 10:13 identified 9:15 15:17 16:9,12 instructive
21:5,12 35:13 identify 17:1 17:8,9,12 intensive 9:23
52:24 implied 11:22 23:18 24:3,4 20:2
greatly 25:24 18:20 47:14 33:11,15,16,19 8:14
41:7 journals 7:12 43:15,21,22 49:16 50:13 34:24 35:10
44:6,13 judgment 5:18 44:1,5,14,23 52:2,25 36:6 41:16
45:11 47:6 45:2,13,19 knowledge 46:16,21 47:10
judgments 8:8 48:3,17 49:3 known 8:18 54:4
jury 3:16 4:16 50:12,20 51:9 32:17 33:20,21 laid 41:16
13:3,9,19 14:2 54:7 46:3,4,8 12:19 13:25
3:8,20 4:9,22 justify 20:3 10:21 12:3,7 4:12,13 11:9
7:4,17,21 8:3,6 K 13:9 14:1 17:15 22:3
12:2,13,21 Kennedy 3:20 17:21 18:1,13 38:15 39:20
30:9 14:22 15:4,24 22:10,13,19 24:18 25:18 48:14
53:15 16:8,17 17:18 23:21 44:14,23 26:16,17 27:20 lawsuit 37:8
5:2,3,3 20:4,8,13,23 12:13 29:23 30:1,2,6 lead 41:7
6:2,8 21:7,17 22:6 kind 12:24 21:9 31:7,15,25 learned 19:22
7:6 22:10,13,19 38:2 41:7 32:4 34:1,18 learns 36:24
8:18,20 23:21 24:2,7 42:22 35:6,7,10,12 legal 20:21,23
22:21 24:13 25:2,4 kinds 20:19 33:2 36:5,23 37:10 23:17
25:15,15 25:17 26:1,10 Kneedler 1:17 37:20,21,25 legislature 14:3
26:12 26:15,22 27:8 2:5 14:17,18 39:4 41:12 legislatures 14:3
27:3,11 27:15 28:5,23 14:22 15:4,14 43:17,21 44:1 let's 14:2
29:7 29:8,9,16,22 16:2,13,21 44:2,6,9,13,18 level 27:9
32:1,6 30:3,8,13,16 17:22 18:3,14 45:8,9,14,25 Levine 1:6 3:4
30:21 31:8,9 19:14,19,25 48:8 49:8 50:9 12:18 34:4
41:4,5 31:11,24 32:8 20:5,10,21,24 53:3 44:12
42:3 32:10 33:6,11 21:15,19 22:9 labeling 3:15,18 Levine's 53:20
33:23 34:11,23 22:12,16,23 5:11,12,19,19 liability 12:15
35:1,15,19,23 23:24 24:4,8 6:14 7:22,23 14:9 35:3 38:1
44:2,7,8 36:11,15,19 25:19 42:8 8:13,24 10:2 38:8 39:24
52:22 37:1,6,12,17 knew 24:24 31:6 10:19 13:20 license 23:16
54:1 37:22,22 38:16 38:2 42:13 14:6 15:3 licensing 11:6
45:6 46:7 52:4 16:10 17:6,23 life-saving 7:1
42:4 40:11,18,21,24 30:25 31:1 25:5,10 26:22 limitation 30:1
45:4 41:13,23,24 41:24 43:9,20 27:2,3,10 28:8 limited 38:25
53:11 42:7,23 43:5,7 43:23 46:7 28:11 29:13 line 8:19,21
3:24 4:5,5,6 51:15,17,20 46:13 52:9 obtain 48:18
11:9 16:17 27:21 20:2,4,5,5,14 47:12
13:9,9 26:5 28:6,11 46:16 22:7,18 23:5 35:10
40:14 30:21 35:13 modifications 23:17 24:3,4,5 offered 28:20
38:18 39:12,21 46:21 28:2,6,6 30:4 oftentimes
44:2 47:2,2 moment 38:5 33:9,11,15,16 oh 42:9
10:8 moved 28:21 49:23,24 50:9 46:2 47:6
37:2 meets 4:1 new-drug 52:15 opening 4:17
19:22 mention 16:5 N 2:1,1 3:1 nonpublished operation 11:18
21:12 43:24 49:17 name 35:20 46:12 35:14
28:18 mentioned 16:2 nature 9:18 nonsubstantive opinion 9:22
35:11 49:16 nausea 7:1 31:22 32:23 21:8 29:4
34:17 met 47:16 necessarily 26:3 non-pre-empted 32:12 44:24
37:20 method 7:24,25 necessary 50:8 34:5 45:1
47:19,25 8:15 26:9,23 need 24:21 33:4 notably 48:23 opposed 22:21
49:6,9 42:13 44:13 35:25 50:15 noted 21:1 41:15,19
50:16 52:24 needle 6:11 notification 19:2 opposite 53:5
methods 3:14 needles 6:3 notion 27:19 options 8:25
8:14 10:1 36:9 needs 22:25 33:16 51:24 oral 1:11 2:2 3:6
15:11 5:20 negated 48:20 number 18:9 order 18:25
35:2 million 29:24 negates 16:19 19:12 20:8 ordered 19:1,6,7
49:1 minutes 51:10 negligence 14:9 35:12 ordinary 6:9
47:23 36:5,13,23 negligent 27:6 O 37:10 43:17,18
50:23 36:4,20 39:7,7 never 8:3 11:1,1 obligation 14:5 ought 12:8
48:22 pharmaceutic... post-date 10:22 pre-empted proposed 12:19
Phenergan 3:13 30:7 20:17 22:17 35:13 53:22
6:13,19 post-marketing 34:6,7,14 38:3 proposing 45:8
51:11 47:13 54:6 power 18:2 3:10 9:12 10:5 protect 15:10
27:2 practitioners 11:18,22 13:18 proved 24:22
32:13,14 8:13,23 9:1,3 preceding 30:17 18:16 38:3,10 16:18,22 30:5
49:3 place 17:13 4:14 11:24 40:2,23,25 7:11 8:9,12
8:1 10:1 plainly 6:14 preclearance 47:25 48:14,20 provides 36:17
29:19 plaintiff 48:17 9:20 11:4 53:15,18 providing 40:20
41:1 49:5,9,23 preclude 11:11 primarily 15:19 provision 10:5
44:3 50:16 52:3 predicated prior 21:21 22:2 23:8,9 36:4
point 5:8 7:15 preemption 18:21 public 35:16,19
19:4 20:14,15 22:18 23:1,3,8 28:6,9 published 45:17
27:18 29:4 preferability 15:20 purposes 9:17
27:25 51:15 preliminary product 16:6,7 12:8 22:21
35:24 pointed 9:21 51:15 36:18 24:25 25:15,20
23:10 premarket professionals 25:24 26:12,25
portions 5:6 prescription 23:17 51:21 41:4,6,15,19
position 15:15 presence 11:15 51:16 42:16,18 43:14
2:4,7,12 37:18,19 38:11 presented 3:11 35:19 52:23
5:22 14:21 39:9 12:20 23:2,4 promulgated put 19:23 32:25
possibility 17:7 30:10 20:1 40:22 41:10,12
postdate 10:23 prevented 54:5 16:9
recommended 32:22 34:8 respect 8:16 9:5,25 15:11
12:13 record 5:6,14 41:4 52:16 31:9 53:9,22 25:5,15,20,25
25:3 7:8 9:8 20:11 rejects 17:10,23 respectfully 26:12,25 28:19
31:11 25:18 33:23 17:23 51:4 29:7,12 30:4
48:12,12 41:18 42:1 relationship responded 30:17,19,22
45:3,5 52:10 24:21 31:12 38:23 32:6 33:2
21:10 referred 3:15 remember responsible 30:6 30:8 31:8
49:10 6:8 15:21 12:17 restrictive 28:24 41:13,24 51:9
30:16 removed 31:4 rethinking 12:7 53:16 54:7
47:5 45:23 46:2 report 52:12 25:6 15:19
reg 21:10 49:10 reported 46:12 revision 15:18 ruling 34:3
23:8 regardless 31:24 25:19 Riegel 9:17,22 running 8:18
regime 11:4 represents 15:7 Riegle 23:1,7,7,9 Rutherford
25:8 Register 36:22 reproduced 22:9,13 30:23
regulated 4:11 5:20 49:6,20 50:9 S
19:21 20:1,18 require 22:3 rigid 6:3 14:18
54:6 regulations 23:4 required 3:18 6:18 7:2,2,18 15:2 26:2,4
34:20 46:19 11:25 12:2 19:14 20:6 38:18,22
51:11 regulatory 21:5 4:1 30:9,10 34:19 35:16,20 39:1
38:14 44:16 Research 19:9 46:20 52:3,5,5 salient 9:17
sent 7:9 17:3 18:16 14:2,3,3,24 45:20
14:10,10 serious 24:20 small-bore 6:3 40:4,19 44:17 sue 26:20
30:18 25:8 26:25 SNDA 52:17 45:10 48:14 sued 16:20
36:15 27:16 53:10 stated 4:17 sufficient 45:9
38:3 set 8:18 19:1,15 snippets 15:19 statement 4:18 suggest 29:13
43:22 24:15 25:5 Solicitor 1:17 38:11,16 39:16 32:18,20 42:12
27:20 30:3 5:9 31:21 States 1:1,12,19 suggested 15:3
28:11 43:13 45:4 soon 24:19 25:7 48:10 suggestion
SETH 1:15 2:3 25:7 statute 51:16 52:10
41:11 2:11 3:6 51:11 sort 5:20 STEVENS suicidal 17:7
49:11,21 sets 21:20 44:3 Souter 12:2,21 40:18,21 45:13 suit 17:15 18:1
52:25 severity 20:6 13:5 14:8 31:9 45:19 46:22 40:4
17:18 show 20:16 33:6,11 37:22 stone 27:20 30:3 summary 53:17
24:2 22:15 49:12 38:23 39:6,13 stood 52:8 53:18,20,24
26:15,22 52:14 39:15,23 40:1 strength 32:5 summary-jud...
28:5 showed 25:21 40:7,11 42:23 strengthen 53:14
29:8 26:14 27:5,13 43:5,7,15,21 19:23 31:16 supplement
31:11 31:1 33:24 43:22 strengthens 23:22 24:2
35:1,15 46:9 so-called 39:7 19:23 44:17
36:11 showing 22:10 specific 6:15,20 strict 14:8 supplemental
37:1 47:18 13:2,24 38:14 strict-liability 24:6 52:17,17
shown 50:17 41:14 44:4 14:14 52:20
side 6:25 7:2 specifically 7:14 strike 21:24 supplemented
44:1,5 22:8 23:18 22:20,23 25:20 strong 45:21 28:7
40:22 41:14 41:19 54:3 supporting 1:19
sides 5:16 squarely 23:20 28:21 41:4,10 suppose 18:6
43:6 simply 5:18 12:9 standards 45:10 subject 17:25 10:17 20:25
28:7 29:19,22 stark 3:12 submit 35:7 41:22,25 45:1
45:12 49:15 29:17 31:1 unpublished Vistrol 31:2
22:2 9:17,21 11:14 48:19 49:4 3:19 12:1
15:6 50:6 51:25 13:21 53:7 W
35:4 33:14 34:16 trouble 46:13 41:10 51:14,14
39:11 40:1 true 10:3 20:12 wanted 21:22
6:1 7:25
23:21 50:19 50:12 13:24 15:3warning 12:24
44:6 thought 29:9,10 Tubex 6:1 24:19 25:7
28:12,12
thousand 27:24 tubing 32:16 31:16 32:1,5
36:6,7,8
14:15 18:6 23:11 31:3 usually 8:178:10 36:7
38:13 38:3 46:24 47:17 51:16 v 1:5 3:4 Washington 1:8
49:19 52:15 type 29:10 53:13 vague 11:21 1:15,18,21
7:3,4,5 9:7 9:23 typically 48:21 vastly 27:9 53:20
26:13 told 38:6,9 49:7 vein 6:12 8:20 Waxman 1:15
53:6 U verbiage 32:24 2:3,11 3:5,6,8
30:20 tool 7:15 underlies 34:10 verdict 35:5 4:7,22,23 5:5
32:19 tools 18:21 underscore 5:8 44:20 7:3,21 8:5 9:14
46:9 tort 10:14 11:11 understand 3:24 Vermont 4:16 10:10 12:15
14:25 15:9,21 5:1 8:23,24 10:17 12:24 13:4,13 14:13
51:8,9 torts 15:8 23:19 39:9 44:23 45:1 51:13 53:17
54:7 totally 45:1 50:1 understood 4:9 version 53:12 way 5:4 19:14
47:5 treatment 42:22 unfortunately 32:7 42:17 48:1 50:3
44:10 5:21 52:23 went 32:23
34:16 26:13 27:4,12 2:6 14:19 violates 4:4 We'll 3:3
yesterday 38:7
50:14,14 06-1249 1:5 3:4 352(f) 36:4
53:21 1
32:12 4a 32:13
40:15
38:7 430 19:8
48:4 44 36:22
1:13 3:2
14:9 5
5:24
28:25
18:10 5a 32:14,24
40:1
7:13 50 14:3
2:7 51 2:12 28:3
10:13 54 28:16
24:15
51:17
11:2,3
79 31:2
45:24
43:20 46:1
8
52:15
11:4
4:15 88 53:23
47:13
10:19
9
12:5,8
31:6 45:22
90s 33:21
25:16 97 10:13
6:17
31:5,14
36:14,22
42:5
49:18
46:2,7
7:9 53:10
52:5,11
53:25
53:25
46:4,8
31:5
4:15 47:2
46:6
7:11,11 10:24
47:3 48:23
24:14
