IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ALICIA G. LIMTIACO, :
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF :
GUAM, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-116
FELIX P. CAMACHO, :
GOVERNOR OF GUAM. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, January 8, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
BETH S. BRINKMANN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
BETH S. BRINKMANN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in case 06-116, Limtiaco versus
Camacho.
Mr. Waxman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case is properly before this Court,
which should reverse under the plain language and
purpose of the Organic Act of Guam. As to jurisdiction,
at the time Congress amended the Organic Act to replace
the certiorari jurisdiction of the Ninth Circuit with
direct review in this Court, the Ninth Circuit had
already granted the writ of certiorari that had been
timely filed and the case had been briefed, argued and
submitted. The amendment said nothing about its
application to pending appeals, and someone had to
decide whether and how it applied to this case. The
Ninth Circuit was the proper body to do that, at least
in the first instance, and until it did, this case was
before that Court within the meaning of Gibbs versus
Wynn.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Waxman, I thought the
Ninth Circuit did decide that question in another case
that was pending, Santos.
MR. WAXMAN: It did decide it in Santos,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why wasn't that the time at
which it was clear that the Ninth Circuit no longer had
jurisdiction?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, for reasons that we
articulate, Your Honor, in a -- I forget the footnote
number, but a footnote in our brief, there are some
important distinctions, although they turned out not to
be dispositive, between the nature and position of this
case and Santos.
But in any event, we know from the Ninth
Circuit that it did not consider it otherwise, because
if the Court will refer to I believe it's page 50a or
51a of the joint appendix, after the Court decided
Santos, it sua sponte issued an order in this case -- it
is on page 51a -- resubmitting this case effective
February 1 to the Ninth Circuit's active consideration.
And shortly thereafter, it filed the order in this case
from that -- in our view, triggered the 2101(c) 90-day
period.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you suggesting that
the test is whether under colorable jurisdiction -- a
hypothetical case, suppose the statute, Federal statute
is very clear that it applies in any case. Would your
argument be the same?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, I wouldn't have the most,
the strongest argument that I have in this case. I
think -- now, the Court's cases are not clear here but
it does seem to me that in the instance as here, where
it isn't just that a party has made some application or
filed a cert petition with a court, but the court has
actually reached out and asserted jurisdiction, surely
anything other than an amendment withdrawing -- that an
active withdrawing -- withdrawing jurisdiction that
requires anything other than merely a ministerial act,
where there can be no possible confusion about what
Congress intended to do, certainly anything short of
that, it lies with the Court to ascertain it. And here
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But if we accept that in
the opinion, what was the phrase you used, colorable
jurisdiction, or -- it's something I made up, I suppose
-- is there some concept that we can refer to or some
phrase that works to -- in order to incorporate your
test that you seem to be suggesting?
MR. WAXMAN: I actually would not embrace
that test. I think that in an instance, Your Honor,
where a court in which, properly had jurisdiction and
affirmatively asserted it and issued -- and I can take
the Court through this -- a series of orders of the
Court, following this 19, the October 19, 2004 enactment
leading up to the decision in Santos and thereafter,
which the Court continued to rule, continued to issue
orders in this case, I think a good argument can be made
that on a theory of constitutional avoidance the court
ought to construe any enactment of Congress, no matter
how pellucid it is, as not constituting a self-effecting
reversal of a preexisting order of the Court in which
the case had been pending per order of the Court.
And so I'm not sure that I would even
embrace a ministerial test concept in the context in
which a case is properly pending in front of a court
which has affirmatively asserted jurisdiction over it.
And indeed here --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Mr. Waxman, may I just ask
this question? I don't understand what the import of
this order on page 51 is. I have it in front of me.
What did that do? Is it anything different immediately
after the order entered than --
MR. WAXMAN: Yes. Yes, Your Honor. And I
think you should -- well, I suppose you could start
anywhere. But let's, maybe it would be as well to start
on 49a of the joint appendix. In December 15 --
remember, the Guam Organic Act was amended I believe
October 30, 19 -- or 2004, and it was silent as to its
effect on cases that had already been filed and were
pending in the Ninth Circuit.
Sua sponte, the Court -- well, actually it
was not sua sponte. Almost two months after Congress
enacted the Organic Act, the respondent in this case,
Governor Camacho filed a motion on December 8 with the
Court renewing a previous motion for the Court to
expedite its resolution in this case. And Governor
Camacho's affidavit in support of that motion is
included in the joint appendix.
In response to the motion, not telling the
Court hey, by the way, it's been nice doing business
with you but we have no further truck with your court
because Congress passed the statute and you are ipso
facto by operation of law no longer in business, the
Ninth Circuit issued the order on page 49a that says no
opinion in this case can issue until the case of Santos
is decided clarifying our continuing certiorari
jurisdiction over decisions from the Guam Supreme Court.
Then turn to page 50a of the joint appendix.
A week later, on December 22, the Court sua sponte
issues an order withdrawing and deferring a ruling in
this case pending the decision in Santos. Santos is
then decided in January. And on February 1, the Court
issues an order in this pending case saying okay, it's
resubmitted to the panel. And shortly thereafter, the
panel issued the order dismissing this case for lack of
jurisdiction, and from that date we filed a timely
petition for certiorari.
Now the contention of the respondent in this
case that the attorney general should immediately upon
enactment of the Organic Act amendment have also filed a
petition with this Court would do one of two things. It
either would have put this Court in the position of
determining the effect of the amendment at the very same
time that the Ninth Circuit was doing so, which is a
state of affairs that this Court has repeatedly
rejected, most notably in Andrews versus Virginia
Railway, or it would have amounted to nothing more than
what this Court has called, quote, "the filing of a
redundant slip of paper."
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, am I wrong? I
thought that the Attorney General of Guam did file cert
in some cases that are pending, or am I wrong on that?
MR. WAXMAN: The attorney -- there were two
cases in which the Guam Supreme Court issued a final --
its own final ruling after the October 30, 2004
amendment of the Organic Act. And in that instance, the
Organic Act was in effect. He filed a petition for a
writ of certiorari in this Court. There were two cases
that were pending in the Ninth Circuit and over which
the Ninth Circuit had granted the writ, this case and
Santos. In Santos, but not in this case, the Court
asked the parties to file supplemental briefs with
respect to the Court's continued jurisdiction, and the
attorney general did so in this case, and it's discussed
in our reply brief.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, going back to
what you just said, isn't a third possibility, the most
likely possibility, that this Court would simply hold
the petition if there were -- if the attorney general
filed a cert petition here while the Ninth Circuit had
not yet disposed of the case, this Court could have just
held it because the Ninth Circuit was likely soon to
dispose of it.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, the attorney general
could have filed a petition for writ of certiorari
before judgment in this Court, you know, at any time
prior to the time that the Ninth Circuit issued its
order dismissing jurisdiction.
This Court has said uniformly outside the
special context of three-judge courts that it will not
require the mere filing of a redundant piece of paper,
to quote the Colville Indian Reservation case, and it
has declined to extend this well, why don't you just
file a notice of appeal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There's no sense in
which it's redundant, though. It would have been the
first piece of paper that this Court would have seen in
the matter.
MR. WAXMAN: Yes. But that is actually what
this Court was referring to in the Colville Indian
Reservation case and other cases in calling it redundant
in the sense that it was identical or effectively
identical to a piece of paper that had invoked the
jurisdiction of another court at the same time.
In the three-judge court context,
Justice Ginsburg, although this Court's jurisdiction to
hear direct appeals in three-judge courts has been
greatly reduced since the 1950s and sixties and early
seventies, there are certain instances that this Court
has realized where it is unclear whether an appeal lies
to a regional court of appeals or to this Court and it
is unavoidable there that you would file a notice of
appeal in both instances; but this is not a situation in
which there was any uncertainty about where the petition
for a writ of certiorari from the Guam Supreme Court's
decision had to be filed. The Organic Act said the
Ninth Circuit had certiorari jurisdiction. The Ninth
Circuit granted the petition in this case and had
assumed authority over it, and so --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But isn't it just the
case -- you've made several arguments, but you have a
case that's lodged in the court of appeals. It's not
simply a petition there. They have accepted it for
review.
MR. WAXMAN: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So in the normal course
when you have a district court decision, a trial court
decision, then you're on appeal and the case is fully
lodged in the court of appeals, it's like the judgment
is suspended until the appellate court is done. So you
have no final judgment that is properly taken anyplace
else until that judgment is entered. I think that's the
essence of your argument, isn't it?
MR. WAXMAN: Yes, and in fact -- I mean,
it's -- I don't think that anything actually turns on
this in the context of this case, but it is quite
significant that at the time -- there has yet never been
any appellate determination of the substantive question
in this case. The Guam Supreme Court considered this as
a court of first instance that original petition was
filed in the Guam Supreme Court.
And the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals at
the time that the attorney general filed the petition
for a writ of certiorari was the only place the attorney
general of Guam could go to get review of this
construction by a territorial court sitting as a trial
court in the first instance of an act of Congress.
JUSTICE ALITO: Does it make any difference
that the review was discretionary in the Ninth Circuit?
What if before the act was passed there was an appeal as
of right to the Ninth Circuit? Wouldn't your argument
be exactly the same?
MR. WAXMAN: It would be exactly the same.
We just think that, given the fact that this is an
instance in which the Ninth Circuit granted the writ of
certiorari and issued both before -- both before the
amendment and after the amendment and both before Santos
and after Santos orders reflecting the fact that it
believed it continued to have authority over this case,
the appropriate outcome in this case is more
straightforward than it might be in some other closer
instances.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Perhaps you should go on
to the merits.
MR. WAXMAN: Thank you.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And on that I have a
preliminary question, because we have a new attorney
general and the question is whether the new attorney
general continues to oppose the legislature and the
governor on this bond issue. Do -- in other words, do
we still have a case or controversy?
MR. WAXMAN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, we do.
I have spoken personally and repeatedly with the
attorney general, who is with me at counsel table, who
has instructed me unequivocally to continue vigorously
to advocate the construction of the Organic Act that
reflected in our petition and in our merits and reply
brief.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I have a more basic
question, whether we had a case or controversy to start
with. This is kind of an intramural dispute between two
Guamanian officials about what Guam's position should be
with respect to the Organic Act and I'm wondering why
that's a justiciable controversy under Article III. The
cases you cited in your petition all involved on its --
only facially intra -- interbranch disputes within the
Federal Government; but the agencies in those cases
always -- were representing a real party in interest.
United States versus ICC, the ICC was actually the
railroad in whose favor the had commission ruled. Why
shouldn't we just let Guam figure out its position on
its own and then when a private party with standing
challenges something then we'll have a case or
controversy.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, this
is actually an a fortiori. If you don't agree with me
and you think that there really wasn't a case or
controversy, then we would respectfully submit the
appropriate resolution would be to dismiss and vacate
the Guam Supreme Court's decision so that the attorney
general --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, no. Guam --
presumably, some state courts issue advisory opinions.
We don't -- that's their business. It's just a question
of whether we have jurisdiction to address the question
in that context.
MR. WAXMAN: Indeed. But here's the
situation here, and this is why I think it's an a
fortiori case. The attorney general and the governor of
Guam are each separately elected. They each have
non-discretionary obligations under Guam law in addition
to their obligation to interpret and enforce the
Constitution and laws of the United States. The
attorney general cannot be removed by, by the governor,
by Guam law, unlike the case in many of these Federal
executive branch intramural disputes; and she is
required by Guam law in any instance in which the
governor and the legislature attempt to borrow money
subject to the full faith and credit of the territory to
certify that such borrowing is lawful. And in this
instance, therefore, she is, as the unremovable elected
chief law enforcement of the territory, she is required
both to properly apply the Federal law that, the Organic
Act that constitutes Guam's constitution and Guam
territorial law which requires her affirmatively to
certify the legality of the proposed buy-in.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except that she is
removable by election, and that is indeed what has
happened. And I understand that one of the issues in
the election was precisely whether this borrowing
authority existed or not. And if that's the case, you
have a new attorney general that presumably as an
original matter would not do what the prior attorney
general did.
MR. WAXMAN: Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it is an intrabranch
dispute that can be resolved by the electorate
essentially.
MR. WAXMAN: There may very -- it may very
well occur. In fact, there either is or imminently will
be a proposed additional borrowing of $123 million
proposed by the governor to the legislature, and that is
going to require this attorney general to ascertain,
presumably prior to the time this Court -- well, I won't
presume, but perhaps before this Court renders a
decision in this case were it to, whether she can or
cannot certify that.
Now, the answer to that question will turn
in the first instance -- and she's not going to be
reelected before then. She can't be removed by the
governor before then. Her position is that if she
ascertains that in the form in which it's enacted that
proposed borrowing implicates, you know, constitutes
debt within the meaning of section 11, she will not sign
that legislation.
And that, it seems to me, during the
campaign -- of course, none of this is in the record --
her position was that she would continue to pursue this
litigation in the Supreme Court, which is why she's
here.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I guess I'm not quite sure
what that means. I mean, it's one thing to say I will
pursue the litigation because it would be a good thing
to have a definitive answer from someone other than the
governor or me. Is it her position at the present time
that the position of her predecessor is correct or not?
MR. WAXMAN: It is her position that if she
were presented tomorrow with a borrowing that would
exceed the debt caps under the position of the attorney
general in this case, she will not sign it because that
constitutes her interpretation of the law.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So she adopts the
interpretation of her predecessor?
MR. WAXMAN: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: I have a question, if I
can, if we should reach the merits of the case --
MR. WAXMAN: I think you should reach the
merits of the case.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know that. That isn't
it. I have a question about -- I have a question about
the merits.
MR. WAXMAN: Okay. I have four reasons why
I think we are correct --
JUSTICE BREYER: I know, but I have a
question I'd like you to go into.
MR. WAXMAN: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: I looked up, my law clerk
has, and found eight States that seem roughly
comparable. Those that go to assessed value, every
single one of them -- and most of them do -- they have
the word like "assessment. The only comparable places
we found are Puerto Rico, Philippines in 1916, and Guam
here which don't use the word "assessment," but use the
words "aggregate taxable value."
All right. Now, what's happened in those
places? We know what's happening in Guam. I can't --
with the Philippines in 1916 and Puerto Rico, there
ought to be some experience there even if we couldn't
find a case how they treated it.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, they -- what's happening
in all those jurisdictions will certainly consume at
least the rest of the balance of my time. The simple
answer is that -- is the following. There are --
looking first at the States, there are States that use
the term "the valuation." There are States that use
"the assessed valuation," "aggregate assessed
valuation," and there are a few States that use "tax
valuation." It is uniformly the case in the States and
elsewhere that the word "assessed" in this context is
understood to refer to the valuation against which the
property tax is based, whether that happens to be a
place where it is full value or a fractional value; but
it is also the case that at the time that the Guam
Supreme -- that the Guam Organic Act was enacted
fractional valuation was a commonplace for purposes of
assessing property tax. Now, in the territories --
JUSTICE BREYER: Try Utah, try Iowa. Try --
MR. WAXMAN: There were three States that we
discussed, Passy is one, Halsey is the other and I can't
remember the name of the other one, where they used --
where the State constitution just said "aggregate
valuation" or "the valuation" and the State supreme
court said: There's no modifier for valuation; that
must mean full value.
There are, conversely, the State supreme
court in Fishburn in the Illinois context and in the
Indiana context where even that formulation, "the
valuation," the State supreme court said: Come on, it
is -- the debt limitation is always calculated --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Mr. Waxman, can I ask you
this, just about Guam, not about the other territories.
Is there anything in the Organic Act that would prevent
Guam from changing the assessed percentage from 35
percent to 100 or 150?
MR. WAXMAN: Absolutely nothing.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So there's no, no limit in
the Organic Act of any real meaning?
MR. WAXMAN: That's -- the limit in the
Organic Act, and it makes it entirely consistent with
all of the other territories that I -- are not that many
and I will explicate -- which is the uniform rule has
been that the basis for valuation of property against
which the debt limitation percentage is multiplied is
the same as the valuation of property against which the
property taxes apply. And in the territories the
Congress has used essentially two formulations: In the
Springer Act it was "assessed value of taxable
property." In Alaska, it was "aggregate taxable value."
In Guam it's "aggregate tax valuation." In Hawaii, it
was "assessed value;" in the Northern Marianas,
"aggregate assessed valuation."
The Philippines, which you mentioned, is a
particularly instructive example because in 1902 and
1905 it was "assessed valuation," but then in 1916 and
1922, it was altered to be "aggregate tax valuation."
And then the Virgin -- Puerto Rico is "aggregate tax
valuation" and the virgin Islands, which we've
discussed, is "aggregate assessed valuation."
Now, the legislative histories of these
provisions, including the Guam provision, are lengthy,
obscure and frankly have been very difficult to obtain
because in many instances the hearings are unreported.
And we have been receiving the legislative history,
particularly the unpublished legislative histories, of
these provisions up to and including Saturday because in
the 11 days over the Christmas holiday in which we did
our reply brief we simply could not get hearing,
transcripts of hearings that were conducted in 1949 in
that Agana, Guam.
But we are prepared to lodge the relevant
provisions with the Court for the Court, and I don't
want to, therefore don't want to make any argument about
it, but I don't want to say that these words --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Please don't.
(Laughter.)
MR. WAXMAN: But the --
JUSTICE BREYER: My question is the
following. In Puerto Rico and in the Philippines after
1916, and in Alaska, were there any instances in which
they issued bonds that exceeded the 10 percent of the
assessed value as opposed to the aggregate market value?
They either did or didn't and that shouldn't be hard to
find out.
MR. WAXMAN: I think that would be hard to
find out, and I don't know. I do know that there is
legislative history with respect to the use of the word
"assessed" and tax in this context both in Puerto Rico
and in the Philippines. I don't know about Alaska.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Just on the merits, the
first thing that the tax authorities have to do is they
have to value the property.
MR. WAXMAN: Correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And they're valuing it for
tax purposes, so that sounds like tax valuation.
MR. WAXMAN: I'm not -- our argument is that
the word "tax valuation" has to have meaning; and the
plainest meaning is the meaning, we respectfully submit,
the most natural meaning of "tax valuation" is the
valuation that is used by Guam for the calculation of
tax.
And that's true not only as a matter of
plain language, but for three other reasons. First of
all, as I indicated, it puts Guam in harmony with the
regime that has existed in every other U.S. territory in
which the value of property against which the debt
limitation rate is assessed is the same as the value of
property against which the tax rate is assessed. And
secondly, or thirdly, that fully accords with the
statutory and legislative history both with respect to
the territories and the states that reflects that it has
always been understood that tax valuation and assessed
valuation are equivalent in this context, and
understanding that furthers Congress's consistent goal
of restraining borrowing by territories.
And finally, interpreting tax to mean full
renders the word tax all but meaningless. I grant you,
Justice Kennedy, that it is possible to come up with a
meaning. It is not a meaning that the Guam Supreme
Court adopted but it is a possible meaning; but the Guam
Supreme Court interprets -- actually said in its
opinion, tax has to mean something. It interpreted tax
not to modify valuation, the word that follows it, but
to modify the word "property," and to read it as taxable
property, which is with all respect plainly wrong.
JUSTICE BREYER: There are big lenders in
the United States and those people don't fool around.
They get opinions. And they lend money to Puerto Rico
or they lend money to some of these places. They're
going to have opinion letters. And those opinion
letters are going to say whether they think in their
opinion this is over reaching to many bonds or not. And
Of course, I would think those opinion letters would say
for Puerto Rico, what the words aggregate tax valuation
mean. They might or might not.
In other words, I'm trying to find ways of
getting the tax.
MR. WAXMAN: Okay. I don't have any such
opinion letters. And I would therefore, much like to
reserve at least a minute for rebuttal. But with
respect --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now Mr. Waxman,
we've taken a fair amount of your time before you got to
the merits. So we'll give you a couple of minutes for
rebuttal. Why don't you answer that.
MR. WAXMAN: Thank you.
With respect to Puerto Rico, Puerto Rico
happens to be a situation which so far as we have been
able to ascertain, the law actually requires that for
purposes of determining valuation for application of the
tax rate, the assessed rate is required to be the actual
value, as is the case in the Virgin Islands. So that
distinction wouldn't exist.
On the other hand, in the Philippines, it is
clear from 1902 on that a system of fractional valuation
was in place. Now, getting -- figuring out what
actually happened in the Philippines way back when, when
it was a territory of the United States, has been
challenging and its may very well be that there is
information; but simply, simply obtaining for example,
the -- the three unpublished hearings with respect to
the Virgin Islands legislation in 1949 has been actually
surprisingly -- surprisingly challenging. If I may
reserve the balance of my time?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Waxman. Ms. Brinkmann?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BETH S. BRINKMANN,
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MS. BRINKMANN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
This case should be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction because the certiorari petition filed in
this Court to review the judgment of the Guam Supreme
Court was untimely. If the Court were nonetheless to
reach the merits of the opinion of the case, the opinion
of the Guam Supreme Court interpreting section 11 of the
Organic Act should be affirmed.
There are three principal reasons supporting
both of these positions. First, on the dismissal:
Dismissal is required, one, because when the Ninth
Circuit was divested of authority to adjudicate the
merits of the case, on October 30th, 2004, this Court
was then the only court that could review that judgment.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Brinkmann, Congress
sometimes withdraws jurisdictions from courts, but while
the case is spending it isn't until the court issues the
order -- there's no automatic dismissal of the case when
Congress passes an act. There is a case lodged in the
court, and that court will follow Congress's directions
and dismiss it. But until it does, its hold final
judgment. The judgment of the Guam Supreme Court is
suspended while it's sub judicata before the Ninth
Circuit, and then when the Ninth Circuit acts, then
there is a trigger. But until there isn't.
MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, we respectfully
disagree. We don't believe that there was any
suspension of the time for filing once the Ninth Circuit
was divested of jurisdiction. This Court as long ago as
the Eisenberg case has recognized that the time for
filing certiorari is suspended so long as a lower court
has jurisdiction to adjudicate the merits of the case.
The Court reinforced that more recently --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if, what if you have
an ambiguous statute where it really is not clear
whether it applies to pending cases or not? What, what
-- you say if it turns out after the fact that it does
apply to pending cases, you are out of time, if you
haven't immediately filed here while the case is still
-- is still pending.
MS. BRINKMANN: No, Your Honor, that is the
situation that the Court confronts in the three-judge
district court cases within in the instances in which
there was a mistake made as to where the appeal should
be taken. And the Court has jurisdiction to decide, the
jurisdiction in those instances has vacated and remanded
the order.
I want to emphasize to this Court that in
the Santos case, Petitioner requested that the Ninth
Circuit remand the order to the Guam Supreme Court, and
in the language of this Court, what that does is it
refreshes the judgment of the Guam Supreme Court so that
it can timely brought here. If Petitioner --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask, would the Ninth
Circuit have had jurisdiction after October 30, 2004 to
vacate the judgment of the Guam Supreme Court and send
the case back?
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes. We believe under the
authority of this Court in those three-judge courts,
that is the solution that this Court has established --
JUSTICE STEVENS: We did that. "We don't
have jurisdiction but we are nevertheless going to enter
the following order, which presumably depends on our
having jurisdiction, that the judgment is vacated,"
assuming it's bad. You agree that the Ninth Circuit
could have done that?
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes, Your Honor. Petitioner
agreed that, he asked for that relief in the Santos
case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Isn't that subject
to gamesmanship? Parties that are out of time in this
Court going to a lower court and saying well, just
vacate and re-enter, and then I can start all over
again? We've discouraged that.
MS. BRINKMANN: We think not, Your Honor.
In the Donovan Ricky Richland case, the Court made clear
you would not vacate it when it was simply a failure to
obey the rules. The Court refused to vacate and remand
in that case, as we point out in our brief. This is a
case such as Justice Scalia was positing where there is
an actual issue of, colorable question of jurisdiction.
The proper course would to be to challenge, and here
Petitioner did not even try to litigate the question,
did not file any brief after Santos came down, never
tried to distinguish this case from Santos. He merely
waited and did not timely pursue the writ of the Guam
Supreme Court, the judgment that was final at that point
in time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you'd say Santos,
then, is -- is -- is the Rubicon? Not the enactment of
the statute, but Santos?
MS. BRINKMANN: No we believe in this
particular instance, particularly on, with the clarity
under Brunner, of the divestiture of the Ninth Circuit
jurisdiction here. This is not a rule of force.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah. Your last argument,
then, is irrelevant. I mean if it's clear, it doesn't
matter what they did before.
MS. BRINKMANN: Well, I'm suggesting in
response to your question, Justice Scalia, that in those
other situations where there may be a question, that
does not put the Petitioner in a situation of not being
able to seek review.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is not this case.
MS. BRINKMANN: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Ninth Circuit would
have been without authority to issue the orders in
Santos under your reasoning. The Ninth Circuit is
powerless because the authority had been transferred by
virtue of the statute to this Court, so the Ninth
Circuit was wrong in any orders it issued.
MS. BRINKMANN: No, Your Honor, the Ninth
Circuit maintained jurisdiction to decide jurisdiction.
And indeed if Petitioner had litigated the question of
jurisdiction they could have brought a writ to the Ninth
Circuit and come to this Court and litigated the
question of jurisdiction. If the Court had found there
was jurisdiction it could have reached the merits. If
the Court had found it was not, there was no
jurisdiction, it would have -- in the three-judge courts
and said no, you need to come directly up from the Guam
Supreme Court with vacate and remand for a fresh
judgment, and then you come to the Guam Supreme Court.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask, how much time
did the Petitioners have after the statute passed? 90
days? Or the interval of 90 days minus whatever had
been run?
MS. BRINKMANN: 90 days Your Honor. We
believe that the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Why would that be so?
MS. BRINKMANN: The timely petition to the
Ninth Circuit and the grant of certiorari would have
suspended the finality of the Guam Supreme Court
judgment. Once Congress in its authority to demarcate
the jurisdictions of the lower Federal courts had passed
that the statute, it was no -- for no court to question
that, was divested jurisdiction at that time. The Guam
Supreme Court judgment was again final and it had 90
days to petition.
I should say there are other cases.
Eisenberg makes clear that time was not suspended when
the court below does not have jurisdiction. The Market
Street Railways case makes clear when as a matter of law
the lower court no longer can act on the case, the time
is no longer suspended. And the Jesse Oil case makes
clear that the party can not rely on a false exercise of
jurisdiction by the lower court.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, in this case if it
was not a false exercise in Santos, why was it a false
exercise here?
MS. BRINKMANN: It was not a false exercise,
Your Honor, until October 30 of 2004. At that time
Congress spoke. And what that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it, it, it was still an
exercise -- it was an exercise in this case of the same
authority that it was purporting to exercise in Santos,
which you conceded. And that is the authority to
determine its own jurisdiction. I presume that
jurisdiction is determined on a case by case basis when
a case has already been accepted by the Court, and as
Justice Ginsburg said is sub judice. So if there was,
if there was jurisdiction to determine jurisdiction in
Santos, I don't see why there wasn't likewise
jurisdiction to determine it here.
MS. BRINKMANN: There was jurisdiction, Your
Honor. Our position is the same in both of those cases.
And indeed if that issue of jurisdiction had been
litigated in this case, Petitioner could have brought a
writ to the Ninth Circuit judgment and litigated
jurisdiction in this case. But if the courts ultimately
determined that there was not jurisdiction, it had --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Once the -- once the Ninth
Circuit determined that it had no longer a continuing
jurisdiction to do anything more than it did, in the
order that finally dismissed this, the other side wasn't
bound to litigate that here.
All the other side is saying is that up to
that point, the court was determining its own
jurisdiction. And therefore it is only when it
determined that its jurisdiction no longer existed, that
the filing period began to run.
So it seems to me that the crucial question
is if it could determine its own jurisdiction in Santos
which you concede, why can't it determine its own
jurisdiction here?
MS. BRINKMANN: It can, Your Honor, but --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't that what it was
doing?
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes, but if it is found
there is no jurisdiction, then the party cannot have
relied on that to suspend --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why -- why can't it?
MS. BRINKMANN: Because this Court's cases
make clear, the Wynn, Eisenberg case --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But those -- those -- are
they -- and you have got me here. The argument here is
that the, that the Ninth Circuit already had taken
jurisdiction in this case. It wasn't a question of
whether to accept it or not.
MS. BRINKMANN: And in those cases, Your
Honor, the courts also -- appellate courts were
undoubtedly exercising jurisdiction in those cases. And
in Eisenberg, for example, it was a request to recall
the remittitur. It took months for the California
Supreme Court to decide that case. And they said yes,
there's a standard where you can do that there -- the
court. We find you don't make it, so we don't have
jurisdiction. They came to this Court and said out of
time. You had to have sought our review timely, from
the final judgment of the California Supreme Court, you
could not wait for that period of time in which the
California Supreme Court decided to not have
jurisdiction.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I --
MS. BRINKMANN: That is a well established
Federal jurisdiction principle.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I guess I'm still at a loss
on the point that for one purpose, the purpose of the
90-day filing period, you're saying that the Ninth
Circuit did not have jurisdiction; but for another
purpose, the determination of whether it had
jurisdiction, you're saying it does have jurisdiction.
Am I misunderstanding your argument?
MS. BRINKMANN: I don't believe so. I think
that's very common --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I don't see how you can
have it both ways.
MS. BRINKMANN: Well this Court has made
clear, for example, in the three-judge district court
cases, that this Court has jurisdiction when an appeal
comes before it, to decide whether or not it has
jurisdiction over that appeal. When parties have made
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: Maybe I should say I don't
know why this Court can have it both ways.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOUTER: Don't, don't we have to
choose one analytical path or the other analytical path?
MS. BRINKMANN: No, Your Honor, I think it
rests in this whole idea that courts have to have
jurisdiction to decide jurisdiction. But when you're --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And then when they decide
they didn't have jurisdiction, then it's retroactive?
That's what your position is?
MS. BRINKMANN: No.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Ninth Circuit has
jurisdiction this whole time. But the day that it
issues its decision dismissing this case, then it is
retroactive back to the date that Congress passed the
statute? That's what you seem to be saying.
MS. BRINKMANN: The divestiture of the
jurisdiction occurred on the date that Congress's
statute went into effect.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if, what if the Ninth
Circuit had incorrectly held that it had jurisdiction?
Would it be the same?
MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, that would have
been the scenario I discussed before, the parties could
have litigated that. If it came to this Court, and the
Court found there was jurisdiction, so be it. We think
it would have been a wrong ruling. And if it came to
this Court and this Court reversed, that is the scenario
we discussed, where in the three-judge district court
when that turns out, the court says we don't have
jurisdiction, you needed to come up through the other
route, we will dismiss, vacate and send back and come
up.
Now I have to urge on the Court there's a
purpose for that. In those cases the party is actively
believing and pursuing the view that jurisdiction
exists. In this case that was not the scenario.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But those cases really
are not on point. Because there was a vast confusion in
the days when there was a three-judge court, do I file a
jurisdictional statement, do I file a cert petition?
Sometimes this Court said we'll treat the jurisdictional
statement as a cert petition. But those existed from
the beginning. Here there's a case lodged in the Court
of Appeals, the Court of Appeals had every basis of
jurisdiction. This was no big shakes about it. It
wasn't, did they file the right paper? And then
Congress does something. And the Court would follow
suit.
It just seems to me very strange to say the
court has jurisdiction to decide whether it has
jurisdiction, but if it decides it doesn't, then the
date of that order is not the critical date, but you go
back to the date that Congress passed the law.
MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, I think that
this Court addressed this scenario, and one of two
things could have happened. As you pointed out during
Petitioner's argument, it would have been an easy thing
to file a protective cert position. This Court is well
familiar, has recognized the appropriate of protective
filings -- certainly in the Federal habeas situation
where there are mixed petitions and we go back in
thought, protective filing within the 90-day period
would have been appropriate. And I urge, particularly
because Petitioner filed a brief within that period in
the Santos case, recognizing that Brunner required that
there was a divestiture of Ninth Circuit jurisdiction as
of the day of the statute enactment.
Even if there had not been that protective
filing, if Petitioner had a colorable jurisdiction
argument and litigated it, this Court has made clear
that once that has been determined adversely, there can
be a vacation and remand back to the Guam Supreme Court
so that judgment can be brought up. I would like to
turn to the merits if I could, Your Honor.
We believe that the well-reasoned opinion of
the Guam Supreme Court should be affirmed for three
reasons. First, the interpretation takes full account
of the text of the statute. As Justice Kennedy was
mentioning before, the purpose of this is to have a debt
limitation that is based on the property in Guam and the
tax valuation of that property in Guam. The tax
valuation is the valuation of the property that is
subject to tax.
This is not an original interpretation of
this provision. In the Superior Court opinion from 1989
that we attached to our brief in opposition, the Guam
Supreme Court came to the same conclusion and
interpretation of this language. We think it is an
eminently reasonable and correct interpretation,
particularly in light of the absence of the word as set.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But don't you know
that your interpretation reads the word tax out of this
statute? I mean your position would be exactly the same
if it just said 10 percent of the value of the property
in Guam.
MS. BRINKMANN: No, Your Honor. That would
include the tax-exempt property. That would be a much
larger number.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's where I'm having
trouble on your side. I can't get very far with a
history of other places. Apparently I can't get there.
Tax doesn't seem to help me very much. So I
thought, well, one thing is clear. What they're trying
to do here is they take out of the box, if you look at
it, take all of the list of property that they don't
tax. I guess a school, maybe some tax exempt business
or something.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now their reason for doing
that must be that those people who they've exempted
entirely by statute are not going to be much help in
paying Guam. Well, if that's true, isn't precisely the
same thing true of the two-thirds of the property that
they don't take into account when they set their taxes?
MS. BRINKMANN: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because?
MS. BRINKMANN: Because that property in
Guam is still securing this debt to a certain degree.
It is property that must be valued for tax purposes.
JUSTICE BREYER: No. It doesn't secure it
one bit if, in fact, the tax statute says you can't take
it into account when you set your taxes. Just as is
true of, let's say, a tax free business of some kind.
Now Guam doesn't have to do that, it could change its
statute, but so could it change its statute in respect
to a school, a university, or whatever the other things
are that are off those tax rolls. You know that, you
know, your answer was circular. That assumes that the
whole property is, but it isn't.
MS. BRINKMANN: Well, Your Honor, as a
matter of textual interpretation as to the tax valuation
of property in Guam, you look at the property in Guam
and then you have to take the tax valuation. You're
taking the property that is subject to tax.
We believe that this is the intent of
Congress also for two reasons, Justice Breyer, that
addressed your issues before about one suggestion that
Guam could change this. The purpose of Congress here
was to set a meaningful debt limit. That is what real
value appraisal value does. It is an economic
determination of currency fact.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, why why does it do
any more than the 35 percent value? That sets a
definite limit.
MS. BRINKMANN: Because that could be
changed at the whim of the legislature, Your Honor, and
the legislature could change that assessment to increase
the debt limit and -- while lowering taxes and altering
any tax liability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: With respect to much
of the tax exempt property, that could be changed by the
legislature as well.
MS. BRINKMANN: But when you're looking to a
bond debt limitation, you're looking at the bond market,
you're looking at investors, the certainty of an
appraisal value, actual real value, and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it doesn't have to be
100 percent. They could change what you call the tax
valuation from 100 percent of the fair value to 150
percent. There's really much less to this case than
meets the eye. I mean, Guam is going to be able to
fiddle with this thing no matter how you come out.
MS. BRINKMANN: We don't believe that was
the intent of Congress.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, whether it was their
intent or not, is it not the case that Guam could say
all property will be valued at 150 percent of its fair
market value and we will then impose a 1 percent real
estate tax instead of the 2 percent, or instead of the
1.5 percent we had before?
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes, they certainly could do
that as a matter of fact. We don't believe that should
alter the debt limitation Congress enacted, and that's
precisely why we believe that the Guam Supreme Court
opinion gives a meaningful interpretation of the purpose
of Congress and gives a real debt limitation that
exactly should be affirmed as exactly the purpose that
Congress intended. And that's why the assessed value
can be so easily manipulated, and is not a reasonable
interpretation.
I also would like to address
Justice Breyer's question about the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, just before you go
there, if I were a bond investor, I would much prefer
issuing bonds if it's the lower value, if it's the
assessed value. I'm just more secure.
MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, the uncertainty,
however, that the debt limitation is a real limitation
that serves the purpose of Congress in order to have
some kind of fiscal responsibility to the Territory is
what is furthered by the real limitation of having a
concrete appraisal full value as a basis for the
calculations.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you do have a
concrete appraisal, but it's just reduced to 35 percent.
MS. BRINKMANN: But that can be changed at
the whim of the legislature without any accountability
to the voters because at the same time that they change
the tax rate and not alter any tax liability.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you say without any
responsibility to the voters. I mean, the voters are
going to know that if the valuation is changed and the
tax rate isn't, their taxes are going up. So I assume
the voters are going to be vigilant to what is going on
and I assume they have telephones and they'll call their
representatives. Why is this -- why do you posit this
sort of failure of representative democracy?
MS. BRINKMANN: Because I assume the tax
rate will be changed, so it's not just -- there's no --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But if the tax rate is
changed, they're going to call twice.
MS. BRINKMANN: No. The tax rate will be
changed to be lower to maintain the same level, so there
would be no -- because the legislature isn't acting to
address any tax liability. They're simply asking to
manipulate the debt limitation, which is very contrary
to the purpose and any meaningful message that debt
limitation --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But they're going to know
this. I mean, they're going to be, if they are
concerned at all about it, they'll be in touch with
their representatives.
MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, of course the
bond issuance here also goes to the Guam legislature and
they are held accountable for that in the political
arena. I would suggest, Your Honor, the question
about -- I agree with petitioner's counsel about the
certainty of determining some of this historical
material is difficult and not precise. But we have gone
back and looked at the contemporaneous statutes in each
of these territorial jurisdictions, and as Mr. Waxman
pointed out, Puerto Rico it turns out actually uses the
actual value, all of them use the actual value.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do they tax on the basis
of the --
MS. BRINKMANN: Yeah.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is a fractional,
this 35 percent. In the other places, do they use as
the -- the value taxed 100 percent of the property --
MS. BRINKMANN: Yeah.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- and then just have a
lower tax rate?
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And what was the
appraisal practice? I mean, in a lot of these
jurisdictions you have appraised value that turns out to
be 30 percent of the actual market value.
MS. BRINKMANN: But here, in the Virgin
Islands and Alaska, Federal law requires that the taxes
be imposed on the actual value. In the Virgin Islands
it said your assessment will be actual value. That's
why the term assessment was used in the Virgin Islands
debt limitation, because that was in a preexisting
Federal statute that required assessment be an actual
value.
JUSTICE BREYER: Which one? You say they've
all used market values?
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, which of the ones
that use it have in fact an assessed value that is a
percentage of market value?
MS. BRINKMANN: None.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, that
doesn't help us then.
MS. BRINKMANN: But I think it does further
the purpose of what Congress was looking to in both the
Virgin Islands and Alaska. The requirement for various
reasons that they impose their tax on the actual value
certainly supports the reasonableness of the
interpretation here, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, we could look at
Hawaii. In Hawaii they use the word assessed value.
They couldn't possibly have wanted it to be market
value, I wouldn't think.
MS. BRINKMANN: But the actual --
JUSTICE BREYER: And in the District of
Columbia -- where are we on this? It's something else
in D.C. They use assessed value in the Virgin Islands.
MS. BRINKMANN: The preexisting law in
Hawaii before it became a territory had tax imposed on
the actual value, and subsequent to the debt limitation,
the territorial law also put it on actual value.
I would suggest, Your Honor, certainly if
there is any debate that there's more than one
interpretation of the Organic Act, that deference should
be afforded to the Guam Supreme Court's interpretation
of that. That is well established under this Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But doesn't it --
who is this provision designed to protect, just the
Guamanian taxpayers or Federal taxpayers more generally?
MS. BRINKMANN: It's the Guamanians, Your
Honor. It is not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If the Guamanian
government runs a deficit, where is the difference made
up from?
MS. BRINKMANN: Most of the income and
revenue on Guam comes from the Federal income tax,
because unlike on the mainland, the Federal income tax
goes to the Guam Treasury rather than the United States
Treasury.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know that any
taxes from Guam are returned to Guam. Are additional
tax revenues given to Guam other than those that are
derived from Guam?
MS. BRINKMANN: Yeah, other financial
relationships with the U.S. Government, yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that if the
Guamanian Treasury runs into difficulty, it's made up
not just by Guamanian taxpayers, but by all Federal
taxpayers?
MS. BRINKMANN: No, Your Honor. That's not
my understanding of the practice. The encouragement of
Congress setting up the independent judiciary and
government of Guam has also included fiscal
responsibility, and part of that are the bond issuance
and the issues that are here before the Court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I cannot imagine that if a
territory of the United States goes belly up, that the
United States is not going to foot the bill. I just
can't imagine that.
MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, we believe here
that the debt limitation is a matter of local concern.
It is the Constitution of Guam. And we are not
suggesting that the Court affirm an erroneous
interpretation at all. This is a more than reasonable
interpretation of a theory, well reasoned opinion by the
Guam Supreme Court. The Guam Supreme Court has support,
it's 17-year old superior court opinion that had reached
the same conclusion. That was the only law out there
that Guamanians had looked to for the interpretation of
those provisions of the Organic Act. It predated the
1993 appraisal. And it took that opinion and did not
simply adopt it, but went through and did a very
detailed analysis of the test of the statute of the
Organic Act, the fact that it did not include the word
assessed, which was used 10 months later by Congress in
the Virgin Islands.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Miss Brinkmann, just to
follow up on Justice Scalia's question, is there any
history of the Federal government having to bail out the
Guam government for bankruptcy or anything close to
that?
MS. BRINKMANN: No, Your Honor, none
whatsoever.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And is there anything in
the record that tells us what kind of a credit rating
Guam has?
MS. BRINKMANN: No, Your Honor, I don't
believe it does.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did this value issue -- I
mean, was the borrowing effective given the controversy
between, the attorney general refused to sign, did that
have any consequences for whether this bond issue went
through?
MS. BRINKMANN: Absolutely, Your Honor.
Because of Petitioner's delay for more than a year and a
half in a court that did not have jurisdiction, these
bonds still have not been able to issue. And Petitioner
responded no. As a practical matter, the bond market
will not support issuance of these bonds until attempts
to undermine their validity have been brought to an end.
And so the Guam government has been doing different
means of financing in a positive manner. The economy of
Guam has returned because of many of the devastating
world events have taken, have passed in time, and the
economy is recovering. The U.S. military is returning
with a very large presence there. But they are still,
my understanding, approximately two years behind in
getting back tax returns.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In that case, you should
want us to exercise jurisdiction, decide it one way or
the other.
MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, we believe that
it should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, the
Guam Supreme Court opinion stands, and we prevail under
that ruling, the Guam Supreme Court's interpretation of
Section 11 of the Organic Act.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Could you tell me whether
the rate of tax is uniform throughout Guam? The rate of
real estate tax. Is it an island-wide tax or is it
local, county?
MS. BRINKMANN: It is an island-wide tax,
Your Honor. Land is taxed at one-quarter of 1 percent
and improvements are taxed at 1 percent.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know why you just
didn't raise your assessed value from 30 percent to 100
percent and reduce the rate of tax accordingly.
MS. BRINKMANN: We don't believe that
Congress intended to inject itself into the workings of
this local territorial tax mechanism. The various
policies --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you still have the
option, and I'm just dying to ask the question not
having anything to do with the case. Why did they do
this? Why did they have -- was it just to make
everybody feel good and they think they're ripping off
the government because they're getting only a 35 percent
value, even though everybody knows they'll just raise
the rate if it changes?
MS. BRINKMANN: That is exactly the kind of
policy decision that the local governing authority makes
about taxes. Actually the Petitioner has a footnote
explaining the origin of fractional tax valuation.
Indeed, it seems to be consistent with some of the
history also that we've seen that there would be
informal adjustments of valuations to take into account
perhaps poverty, or to take into account less
meritorious justifications. And the -- because of the
perception or, I believe petitioner calls it the
political psychology perhaps, of having such a high
rate, that is a policy decision that different taxing
authorities make.
It should not mean that Guam surrenders
two-thirds of its debt limitation. Congress did not use
the word assessed and it's a very difficult argument to
adopt that by failing to use assessed, they limited it
to an assessed value that surrendered two-thirds of the
Guam territorial debt limitation contrary to all --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah, but you talked
about this as the deference we owe to the Guam Supreme
Court. This is a Federal statute, right? This was
passed by Congress.
MS. BRINKMANN: Yes, Your Honor, and in the
Santa Fe case versus Friday, with all due respect,
Petitioner is incorrect that that addressed territorial
laws. That was a provision in the New Mexico Organic
Act that fed up the jurisdiction of district courts that
Congress created in New Mexico. There was a provision
in that Organic Act provision of New Mexico that said
the jurisdiction of those courts was as limited as law.
That passage was interepreted in this Court
in Friday looking at another Federal statute and some
territorial laws. I would direct the Court to the
briefs in the case, that opinion itself was quite brief,
and when you look at the explications of the party, it
simply reinforces that the Court there was construing an
organic act, a Federal statue, and local territorial
statutes, and there directly said that they should defer
to the local understanding of the courts unless it is
clearly wrong. So we urge that that, too, should be --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does that apply to
all the provisions of the Organic Act? I mean, there
are provisions there addressing the jurisdictional issue
that we are considering here as well. Do we defer to
the Guam Supreme Court's view on that?
MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, I see my time is
up, but if you'd like me to respond?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's fine.
MS. BRINKMANN: I think that you could look
to your area of administrative deference, for example,
under Chevron, where you do also defer to the authority
of an agency, the interpretation of an agency. The
determination of its own authority the Court has upheld.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms.
Brinkmann.
Mr. Waxman, we'll give you 3 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. WAXMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I want to direct the Court -- in response to
two questions that were asked of Ms. Brinkmann, I want
to direct the court to two pages of the Guam Supreme
Court's opinion, and I'm going to summarize them for you
now, but for purposes of what's the difference between
in terms of bond holders, the fact that certain property
isn't taxed at all and certain property is only taxed at
35 percent, what's important to note here, and that is
reflected at page 26a of the petition appendix, the tax
roll on Guam includes a valuation of all nontaxable
property. The Guam Supreme Court then has to go back
and say, well, of this approximately 183 million is
exempt. So in Guam, the tax assessor and the Guam
courts are treating property that is wholly exempt from
taxation the same way that it treats the two-thirds of
fair market value that is exempt from application of the
tax rate.
Secondly, in response to Justice Kennedy's
questions about why are we focusing -- why wouldn't bond
holders focus on assessed valuation rather than the rest
and what difference does all of this make, page 18a of
the joint appendix, which is footnote 8 of the Guam
Supreme Court's opinion, which comes in the -- the
portion of the opinion where the court says, look, "tax"
has to mean something; we think it means taxable
property, not tax valuation.
The Guam Supreme Court in its opinion in
footnote 8, quoting from some language from a dissenting
opinion in the Hawaii Supreme Court, says as follows,
and I'm quoting from footnote 8: "It has been argued
that the use of a percentage of assessed value as a
measure of the State debt limit is without
significance," now skipping the rest of the sentence.
"The people that buy the bonds are interested in the
ratio of your debt to your assessed value because, while
all of the tax revenues of the State or the counties
naturally are available for the payment of the debt,
it's been customary for bond holders to look to the real
property tax as their collateral."
That is the authority on which the Guam
Supreme Court relied and it applies to this case and it
explain why the word "assessed" and the word "taxable"
have been construed synonymously and interchangeably in
the legislative history of these territorial statutes
and why assessed value is understood to be usually
fractional value for reasons of political psychology
that Ms. Brinkmann addressed, but even where it's full
value, it is only pursuant to a determination that for
assessment purposes full value should be used.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:08 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
48:21 25:16 26:11 3:19 5:12 8:11 area 52:13 attempt 15:4
55:1 50:19 12:18 argued 3:18 attorney 1:4
48:18 adopt 47:21 analysis 47:22 2:2,5,8 3:3,7 12:4,5 13:3,4
adopts 17:8 Andrews 8:17 22:6 25:2 16:4 17:5
50:19 advocate 13:12 39:16 37:9 51:3 50:25
affairs 8:16 anyplace 11:17 52:21 authority 11:5
affirm 47:12 38:15 Article 13:20 25:16 27:13
6:3,17 15:11 10:24 11:14 ascertain 5:17 31:10,11 50:14
8:11 9:2 37:15 41:15 34:9,11 ascertains 16:13 automatic 25:22
11:2 12:8 afforded 45:24 appeals 3:20 asked 9:8 27:22 available 54:10
13:12,19 Agana 21:5 10:18,22 11:8 52:25 avoidance 6:9
18:25 agencies 13:23 11:15 12:3 asking 43:3 a.m 1:16 3:2
agency 52:15,15 36:8,8 asserted 5:11 54:25
25:12,23 aggregate 18:5 APPEARAN... 6:3,17
19:7 1:17 assessed 17:25 B
45:23
49:15 20:9,10,12,16 appellate 11:16 18:17,17,20 back 9:12 24:17
20:17,19 21:17 11:24 33:5 19:19 20:8,11 27:11 35:3,20
23:19 appendix 4:18 20:12,15,19 36:17,25 37:11
40:19 21:15,24 44:12 applied 3:21 53:18 54:4,8 24:24
44:10 45:5 applies 5:3 54:15,18 bankruptcy
ALICIA 1:3 26:15 54:14 assessing 19:2 48:4
ALITO 12:9 apply 15:9 20:6 assessment 18:2 based 18:22
42:12 40:19 42:5,8 54:22 basis 20:3 31:13
43:3 altering 40:11 appraised 44:9 assume 42:16,18 43:22
51:13 26:14 12:21 14:10 assumed 11:5 beginning 36:7
amended 3:14 36:23 37:2 assumes 39:16 behalf 1:18,20
3:8 briefed 3:18 42:24 9:16 36:4,6,22 29:10,12,15,17
52:22 briefs 9:8 51:22 called 8:19 certain 10:20 29:20 30:11
27:12 1:20 2:6 25:1,2 calls 50:22 certainly 5:16 33:1,24 34:25
30:8 25:4,19 26:5 Camacho 1:8 18:12 36:24 35:9 37:5
37:14 26:20 27:12,21 3:5 7:10 41:9 45:7,21 Circuit's 4:21
41:1,10 28:4,21 29:3,9 Camacho's 7:13 certainty 40:18 circular 39:16
47:9 29:16 30:7,10 campaign 16:18 43:16 cited 13:21
49:11 31:5,19 32:15 caps 17:5 certify 15:6,12 clarifying 7:22
32:18,22 33:4 case 3:4,11,18 16:8 clarity 28:22
39:18 40:8,16 8:2,4,6,10 9:6 26:10 30:11 32:23 34:8
41:22 46:4,9,18,24 14:20 15:1,17 40:1,10,21 collateral 54:12
47:3 47:9 48:1,6,11 16:7 17:6,12 42:11 colorable 5:1,20
53:4 48:18 49:11,20 17:14 18:10,19 changed 40:9,14 28:10 37:8
54:11 50:1,13 51:11 18:24 24:12 42:9,15,22,24 Columbia 45:15
41:23 54:20 25:22,23 26:9 changes 50:12 come 19:14 23:3
54:7 brought 27:7 26:11,18 27:3 changing 19:19 29:20,25 30:2
16:2,14 Brunner 28:23 30:22,23,24 13:15 14:6,13 46:10 53:21
22:25 37:4 31:2,9,13,13 15:8 24:2,25 commission
business 7:16,19 31:14,22,24 25:4 27:24 14:1
19:3 51:12,22 54:14 54:23 17:25 18:2
23:11 C 54:24,25 choose 34:17 concede 32:13
39:4 C 2:1 3:1 cases 5:7 7:5 Christmas 21:2 conceded 31:11
44:19 calculated 19:15 8:23,25 9:4 Circuit 3:15,16 concept 5:22
45:1,9 calculation 10:12 13:21,23 3:22 4:2,7,16 6:15
22:10 26:15,17,22 7:6,20 8:15 9:5 concern 47:10
21:3 California 33:8 34:9 35:23 12:12,16 25:16 47:17
37:3 33:14,16 36:1 26:3,3,7 27:4,9 concrete 42:5,8
51:22 call 40:21 42:18 cert 5:10 8:22 27:19 28:23 conducted 21:4
10:1,16 11:22 25:5,8,9,9,11 D derived 46:17
6:10 7:8 19:12,13 21:23 25:24 26:1,8 date 8:7 35:3,6 detailed 47:22
12:8 20:7 22:23 26:10,12,21,22 36:16,16,17 determination
30:13 continue 13:11 26:24 27:2,4,5 day 35:1 37:6 11:24 33:25
35:3 16:19 27:6,10,13,14 days 21:2 30:5,5 40:4 52:16
39:24 continued 6:7,7 28:1,1,5,7,16 30:7,18 36:3 54:21
41:2,11 9:9 12:20 29:14,20,21,23 debate 45:22 determine 31:12
42:2 continues 13:5 30:1,2,12,15 debt 16:15 17:5 31:16,18 32:12
47:1,24 continuing 7:22 30:17,21,23 19:15 20:4 32:13
51:2,10 32:2 31:1,14 32:7 22:16 37:18 determined
contrary 43:4 33:9,11,12,14 39:6 40:2,11 31:13,25 32:2
25:24 controversy 34:14 35:13,14 42:1 43:4,5 determining
13:7,16,20 35:16,16,17,18 44:16 45:19 8:14 24:10
conversely 36:8,11,14,19 54:5,8,10 devastating 49:2
17:19 22:3 41:12 45:25 decide 3:21 4:2 different 6:22
counsel 13:10 47:16 48:20 29:17 33:9 difficult 20:22
counties 54:9 51:21,24 52:16 36:14 49:9 difficulty 46:21
50:17 couple 24:4 53:22,25 54:2 7:22 8:3 33:16 10:18 51:21
16:14 16:18 23:18 courts 10:1,18 decision 6:6 8:2 directions 25:24
28:11 43:11 14:14 25:20 11:2,13,14 directly 29:25
3:10,11,16,24 30:14 31:24 35:2 50:14,24 disagree 26:6
15:10 5:10,17 6:2,4,5 51:15,18 52:2 declined 10:4 28:3
47:11 6:7,9,12,13,16 53:12 defer 52:1,7,14 discretionary
7:17,23,25 8:3 10:17 11:1 51:8 52:13 discussed 9:10
13:12 8:25 9:4,7,14 45:24 49:14 deficit 46:7 35:12,17
11:8,13,13,15 critical 36:16 delay 48:19 25:15,22
16:6,20 19:9 customary democracy dismissing 8:6
35:2 33:7 50:13 31:3,5 18:15 22:1,13
election 15:14 exceeded 21:16 February 4:21 focusing 53:17
electorate 15:23 exempt 38:20 fed 51:15 36:11 48:2
eminently 38:3 exempted 38:23 30:14 33:20 27:17
16:13 18:25 49:9 48:3 51:9,20 fool 23:12
34:8 enactment 6:5 exist 24:13 feel 50:9 footnote 4:10,11
45:14 6:10 8:11 existed 15:17 FELIX 1:8 50:15 53:20
28:19 37:6 22:15 32:9 fiddle 40:25 54:1,3
30:16 46:25 exists 35:25 figuring 24:16 forget 4:10
35:5 enforcement experience 18:9 10:23 28:13 formulation
15:8 explain 54:15 36:3,4,10,22 19:13
38:22 entered 6:23 50:16 5:10 7:5,10 8:7 20:7
11:18 explicate 20:2 8:11 9:3,16,21 fortiori 14:7,20
erroneous 47:12 26:7,10 32:10 fractional 18:23
35:7 49:18 failing 51:4 financing 49:1 19:10 23:1
events 49:3 42:20 21:21 23:21 54:20,22
32:23 38:7 41:15,15 false 30:25 31:3 12:1,8 16:10 45:3
half 48:20 46:19,24 47:9 informal 50:19
16:3,12 17:1 18:6 24:17 hypothetical 5:2 instance 3:23
9:10,15 granted 3:17 9:6 I 12:1,8,16 15:3
12:4,6 11:4 12:16 18:11 ICC 13:25,25 15:7 16:10
greatly 10:19 happens 18:22 idea 34:19 28:22
Guam 1:5,9 24:8 identical 10:13 instances 10:20
16:4 3:13 7:3,23 hard 21:18,20 10:14 10:24 12:23
48:15 8:22,25 11:1 harmony 22:14 III 13:20 20:23 21:15
49:7 14:22 15:1,3 54:2 immediately instructive
15:10 18:3,7 hear 3:3 10:18 6:22 8:10 20:14
11:6,12 21:5 22:10,14 21:4 24:21 implicates 16:14 intent 39:23
13:2,8 23:4,5 25:8,11 held 9:18 35:9 import 6:20 41:2,4
29:10 26:1 27:4,6,10 43:13 important 4:12 interbranch
34:21,25 28:15 29:25 help 38:16,24 53:6 13:22
43:22,25 30:2,12,16 45:2 impose 41:6 interchangeably
48:13 37:11,15,19,20 hey 7:16 45:6 54:16
48:14 40:1,24 41:4 histories 20:20 improvements interest 13:24
36:16,25 46:15,15,16,17 21:22 22:20 47:23 interpretation
53:9 47:2,11,15,15 38:15 48:3 included 7:14 17:7,9 37:16
51:1,6,8 52:8 holders 53:4,18 including 20:21 45:8,23,24
23:15,16 53:20,25 54:13 holiday 21:2 income 46:9,10 49:14 52:15
28:1 Guamanian Honor 4:10 6:1 46:11 interpreted 23:7
40:24 13:18 46:3,6 6:24 26:5,20 incorporate interpreting
46:21,22 27:21 28:4 5:23 23:1 25:11
43:7,8 Guamanians 29:9,16 30:7 incorrect 51:13 interprets 23:6
53:2 46:4 47:18 31:6,20 32:15 incorrectly 35:9 interval 30:5
15:10 35:11 36:18 independent intrabranch
15:2 jurisdiction 28:25 29:4,8 lack 8:6 42:1,4 43:4,6
44:12 28:10,24 29:17 39:24 40:5,13 law 7:19 14:22 29:20 31:22,23
45:5 29:17,19,21,22 40:20 41:3,20 15:1,3,8,9,11 35:13 37:9
47:25 29:24 30:16,21 41:21 42:7,13 17:7,23 24:9 litigation 16:20
31:16,18,19,21 43:25 44:4,7 44:12 45:17,20 local 47:10
48:23 32:8,9,12,14 45:9,14 46:1,6 lawful 15:6 51:25 52:2
14:14 33:12,17,20,24 48:1,2,8,13 51:21 lodged 11:8,15
29:11 34:1,1,9,11,20 49:8,16,23 leading 6:6 25:23 36:7
48:13,16 34:20,22 35:1 50:5 51:7 52:4 legality 15:12 long 26:8,10
52:6 35:6,9,14,19 52:11,18,23 legislation 16:16 longer 4:7 7:19
8:6,25 36:15 37:5,8 justiciable 13:20 legislative 20:20 32:9
12:17 48:20 49:9,12 justifications 20:24,25 21:22 look 38:18 39:20
29:15 51:15,18 50:21 22:20 54:17 45:9 51:23
25:21 36:4,5 52:6 K 15:4 16:3 40:9 54:11
39:25 jurisdictions Kennedy 4:25 40:10,15 42:10 looked 17:23
18:12 25:20 5:19 6:19 8:21 43:2,12 43:18 47:18
23:3 37:17 lenders 23:11 40:16,17,18
6:19 8:21 9:12 Kennedy's 23:18,24 lot 44:8
53:20 13:2,8,15 14:6 39:11 42:3 liability 40:12 41:23 43:1
15:22 16:22 know 4:15 9:22 lies 5:17 10:21 lowering 40:11
26:1,1 17:8,11,15,20 16:14 17:15,20 light 38:4
17:23 19:3,16 18:7 21:21,21 likewise 31:17 M
30:2,13 19:22 21:10,13 21:24 34:14 limit 19:22,24 mainland 46:11
31:23 21:25 22:4 38:5 39:15,16 40:2,7,11 54:5 maintain 43:1
37:12 23:3,11 24:2 42:15 43:7 limitation 19:15 maintained
13:13 17:12,14 51:17 once 26:7 30:13 outside 9:25
40:17 37:13 4:21 7:6,20 49:21 P 1:8,18 2:3,9
44:10,20 message 43:5 8:15 9:5,6,16
45:11 Mexico 51:14,16 9:18,23 11:3,3
53:14 51:17 12:3,10,12,16 7:21 23:7,15 6:21 7:20,24
15:19 53:10 28:23 29:10,1237:24 41:13 panel 8:5,6
29:2 ministerial 5:14 29:14,16,19 47:14,16,20 paper 8:20 10:2
39:19 6:15 30:11 31:23 49:13 51:22 10:8,14 36:10
41:10 minus 30:5 32:1 33:1,23 53:2,21,22,25 part 47:3
48:22 minute 23:25 34:25 35:8 54:2 particular 28:22
minutes 24:4 37:5 opinions 14:14 particularly
19:10 mistake 26:23 non-discretio...
29:1 misunderstan... 14:22 opposed 21:17 parties 9:8
40:24 34:2 normal 11:12 opposition 27:25 34:11
43:8 mixed 36:25 Northern 20:11 37:25 35:12
48:14 modifier 19:9 notably 8:17 option 50:6 party 5:9 13:24
52:5 modify 23:8,9 note 53:6 oral 1:14 2:2,5 14:3 30:25
Monday 1:12 notice 10:5,23 3:7 25:2 32:19 35:23
19:23 23:13,14 38:12 5:23 6:12,13 passage 51:19
23:4 months 7:8 33:8 6:21,23 7:20 passed 7:18
47:24 O 8:1,4,6 9:24 12:11 30:4,14
43:5 motion 7:10,11 obey 28:7 27:17 32:4 49:3 51:10
multiplied 20:4 obligations orders 6:4,8 Passy 19:5
53:23 N obscure 20:22 organic 3:13,14 paying 38:25
nature 4:13 October 6:5 7:4 19:25 25:12 8:2,4,23 9:5
needed 35:19 31:6 49:15 51:14,17 people 23:12
nevertheless Oil 30:24 original 12:1 21:16 38:8
new 13:3,4 17:22 23:23 ought 6:10 18:9 41:5,6,7,8 42:8
32:7 33:22 presume 16:6 35:23 37:18 ratio 54:8
53:6 36:2 31:12 40:1 41:13,15 reach 17:12,13
20:4 43:20 prevent 19:18 purposes 19:1 reached 5:11
54:4 policies 50:4 previous 7:11 22:5 24:10 29:22 47:16
political 43:13 principle 33:20 54:22 read 23:9
33:15,23 portion 53:22 16:5 pursue 16:19,24 real 13:24 19:23
posit 42:19 private 14:3 28:15 40:2,19 41:6
9:3,15,16 8:13 13:18 properly 3:11 45:20 realized 10:21
10:25 14:2 16:12,19 6:2,16 11:17 puts 22:14 really 14:8
12:1,4 17:1,2,3,5 15:9 26:14 36:1
25:7 31:20 34:23 property 18:22 Q 40:23
36:4 36:22 38:7 19:2 20:3,5,6,9 question 4:2 reason 38:22
53:7 positions 25:14 22:2,16,18 6:20 11:24 reasonable 38:3
3:8 27:3 possibility 9:13 37:20,21 38:8 14:15,16 16:9 reasonableness
28:12 9:14 38:11,19 39:1 17:11,16,16,21 45:7
31:22 possible 5:15 39:5,7,17,20 21:13 28:10,12 reasoned 47:14
48:21 23:3,5 39:20,22 40:14 29:4,5,18,21 reasoning 29:12
51:13 possibly 45:11 41:5 44:2 53:4 30:15 32:11 reasons 4:9
poverty 50:20 53:5,9,12,24 33:2 41:20 17:18 22:13
43:15 practice 44:8 16:2,3,14 questions 52:25 54:19
46:25 protect 46:2 53:17 rebuttal 2:8
20:13 38:25 41:12 provision 20:21 quote 8:19 10:3 recall 33:7
24:14 predated 47:19 37:24 46:2 quoting 54:1,3 receiving 20:24
predecessor 51:14,16,17 recognized 26:9
prefer 41:22 psychology Railway 8:18 record 16:18
38:15 13:3 Puerto 18:3,8 raise 49:24 recovering 49:4
prepared 21:6 20:17 21:14,23 50:11 reduce 49:25
25:5 14:14 15:18 purpose 3:13 49:25 50:12,24 reelected 16:11
request 33:7 34:22 35:3 runs 46:7,21 35:20
16:4 returning 49:4 S 1:20 2:1,6 3:1 separately 14:21
45:5 reversal 6:12 8:2,2 9:7,7 SETH 1:18 2:3
Reservation 11:10 12:6,10 31:3,10,17 seventies 10:20
resolution 7:12 Richland 28:5 32:6 33:23 side 32:4,6
respect 9:9 20:17 21:14,23 39:9 53:22 48:15
30:1 39:13 40:13 12:12 18:6 21:10 26:13 11:23
51:12 36:10 45:1 28:9,18,25 silent 7:4
respond 52:10 ROBERTS 3:3 49:16,23 21:3 24:20,20
respondent 1:21 27:24 38:5 35:16,25 36:19 single 18:1
25:3 46:1,6,14,20 39:14 situation 10:24
29:4 52:24 52:18 54:23 53:16 26:21 29:6
42:3,14 47:3 roughly 17:24 secure 39:8 sixties 10:19
restraining rule 6:7 20:2 see 31:17 34:5 solution 27:14
rests 34:19 ruled 14:1 seek 29:7 sort 42:20
43:10 resubmitting ruling 8:1 9:1 self-effecting sounds 22:5
retroactive run 30:6 32:10 send 27:10 17:8 31:2,8
sua 4:19 7:7,8 47:15,15 49:13 46:11,16 49:7 theory 6:9 47:14
34:5 7:25 49:14 51:8 49:17,18,18,20 thing 16:23,24
40:5 sub 26:2 31:15 52:8 53:1,9,21 49:25 50:3,16 22:1 36:21
43:7 subject 15:5 53:25 54:2,14 53:7,11,15,22 38:17 39:1
54:24 55:1 51:5 taxed 44:2 49:21 12:15 14:8,19
28:2 45:21 suspension 26:7 taxing 50:24 52:12 53:23
5:24 29:3 54:16 46:22,23 thirdly 22:19
47:12 system 24:15 tax-exempt thought 4:1 8:22
14:24 suit 36:12 T 2:1,1 42:18 24:21 25:13
18:15,15 summarize 53:2 table 13:10 tell 49:16 37:15
superior 37:24 take 6:3 38:18 telling 7:15 three-judge
22:21 47:16 38:19 39:2,9 tells 48:9 10:1,16,18
24:18 supplemental 39:21 50:19,20 term 18:16 26:21 27:13
47:6,7 9:8 taken 11:17 24:3 44:15 29:24 34:8
26:14 supporting takes 37:16 15:11 43:19 8:15 9:22,23
29:14 25:13 talked 51:7 45:20 50:3 10:15 11:23
35:4,7 supports 45:7 tax 18:18,22 51:6,13,21,25 12:4 16:5 17:1
38:7 suppose 5:2,21 19:2 20:10,16 54:17 18:13,24 24:3
39:9,13 6:25 20:17 21:23 territories 19:2 24:24 26:7,9
44:17 supreme 1:1,15 22:1,5,5,7,9,11 19:17 20:1,6 26:17 27:25
51:9,20 7:23 8:25 11:1 22:18,22 23:1 22:21,25 28:17 30:3,16
54:17 14:11 16:20 24:11 37:20,20 22:15 24:18 33:13,15 35:1
27:8,15 25:8,11 26:1 39:9,11,15,19 test 5:1,24 6:1 timely 3:18 8:7
48:1,8 27:4,6,10 39:21,22 40:12 6:15 47:22 27:7 28:15
30:12,17 33:9 42:12,12,16,21 textual 39:19 tomorrow 17:4
49:6 52:2 valuation 18:16 45:16 47:25 whatsoever 48:7
18:21 22:22 19:1,8,8,9,14 virtue 29:14 wholly 53:12
23:12 24:18 18:23,23 19:10 1:11,18,20 words 13:6 18:5
university 39:14 21:17,17 22:2 31:17 32:4 workings 50:2
20:25 24:21 38:8 40:3,3,6 Waxman 1:18 world 49:3
15:7 41:6,16,23,24 4:1,4,9 5:5,25 12:12 24:13
35:18 untimely 25:9 44:14,18,23,24 11:11,20 12:14 9:21 11:1 12:5
44:9 upheld 52:16 45:6,10,12,16 13:1,8 14:6,18 12:16 28:15
13:17 20:7 use 18:4,4,15,16 51:5 53:14 18:11 19:4,16 23:10 29:15
39:24 18:18 21:22 54:4,8,18,19 19:21,24 21:12 35:15 52:3
52:25 43:21 44:1,23 54:21,22 21:20 22:3,6 Wynn 3:25
45:10,16 51:2 valued 39:7 41:5 23:23 24:2,6 32:23
53:13 uses 43:20 valuing 22:4 52:20,21,23 X
8:17 13:25 week 7:25 43:24 44:3
41:25 v 1:7 view 4:23 35:24 37:14 year 48:19
30:1 35:20 we'll 3:3 14:4 $
27:18 virgin 20:17,18 52:20 0
1:7 3:4
46:25 validity 48:24 44:13,15 45:5 28:3 50:18
4:21 8:3 41:6 42:8 44:1
50:10 53:6
41:8
21:16 38:8 4
49a 7:2,20
1:16 3:2
19:20 40:21 5
44:2 50a 4:17 7:24
51 6:21
16:15 21:2 51a 4:18,20
49:15 52 2:10
54:25 8
7:2
1:12 7:10
19:20 40:22
54:1,3
47:16 9
53:19 90 30:4,5,7,17
53:10 90-day 4:23
6:5,5 7:4 33:23 37:1
20:14
20:15
18:3,8
21:15
20:16
21:4 24:22
10:19
37:24
47:20
41:7
6:5 7:4 9:1
27:9
1:12
4:23
7:25
2:7
53:7
2:4 52:20
7:4 9:1 27:9
44:10
25:17
19:19 40:6
