IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-1005
EFRAIN SANTOS AND :
BENEDICTO DIAZ :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October, 3, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Petitioner.
TODD G. VARE, ESQ., Indianapolis, Ind.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
TODD G. VARE, ESQ.
On behalf of Respondents 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 48
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in case 06-1005, United States versus Santos.
Mr. Roberts.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Seventh Circuit misconstrued the Federal
money laundering statute by interpreting the term
"proceeds" to mean profits. The statute prohibits the
laundering of all the gross receipts of a crime, not
just its profits. The primary meaning of "proceeds" is
gross receipts, and the statutory context makes clear
that's the meaning Congress intended here. The statute
is structured to prevent criminals from using the fruits
of their crimes to promote or to conceal their illegal
activities. But a profits definition of proceeds would
constrict the statute in ways that can't be squared with
that statutory objective.
Because the word "proceeds" appears in
the introductory section of the statute, those kinds of
restrictions would apply to both concealment and
promotion cases.
For example, the statute wouldn't cover
expense payments that are structured to conceal the
unlawful nature and source of the funds involved. That
means that if an illegal gambling operator recorded the
compensation that he paid his collectors as salary
payments by a legitimate business that he owned, that
that would not be covered under the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where -- so what?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, Congress was trying --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there some rule up there
that says every criminal statute has to cover as much as
possible?
MR. ROBERTS: No, Your Honor. That's not
what we're arguing. What we're arguing is that there is
no reason that Congress wouldn't have covered these
transactions and that they implicate the objectives of
the statute as revealed by its text, just as much as the
transactions that are clearly covered.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think it -- I think it
much more remarkable than that, more extraordinary than
that, that Congress would want to make all -- all
betting operations like this a violation automatically
of two criminal statutes.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I find that sort of, you
know, very strange.
MR. ROBERTS: -- it is certainly true that
illegal gambling and money laundering are going to occur
together, but that isn't a cause for concern. It just
reflects the fact that certain businesses, illegal
businesses like gambling operations, like drug dealing,
frequently generate large amounts of cash and they need
to launder that cash in order to survive and to prosper.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It is hard to see this --
that, just in the sense of laundering, nothing is being
concealed. They're not -- the money that's being paid
to the runners and the collectors, it is an ordinary and
necessary expense of the illegal business.
So I think Justice Scalia was emphasizing
that this is, for the very same conduct two discrete
statutes, one with much heavier penalties. That makes
it odd, too, that the basic gambling statute has a lower
penalty than this money laundering statute, and yet it's
the same conduct that's violating both.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, it's not the same
conduct in that the conduct here, the paying the winners
and paying the collectors is not a required element of
the gambling offense.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh well, I mean -- come on.
Nobody -- nobody runs a gambling operation without
paying off the winners. It's not going to last very
long.
MR. ROBERTS: And, true --
JUSTICE SCALIA: To make the paying off of
the winners a separate crime from running the gambling
operation seems to me quite extraordinary.
MR. ROBERTS: It -- it -- it's true, Your
Honor, that they're not going to last very long.
They're not going to survive. They're not going to
grow. That's because they need to commit money
laundering in different ways to do that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But even if --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me what
happens if there's a -- two bank robbers, the one's with
the get-away car; the other one going into the bank
teller, and the robber that goes into the bank gets
$1,000 and comes out and gives 500 to the get-away guy.
Is that a violation of the statute?
MR. ROBERTS: That is, if the -- if the
payment would promote the continuing -- if they've got a
continuing robbery operation and by paying him he's
going to say, he's saying, you know, keep on continuing
in the operation and let's expand it further.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then under your theory the
employee who gets paid shows up for work the next
morning; and so, of course, under your theory it would
be promotion.
MR. ROBERTS: Your Honor, your question and
a lot of the questions I'm getting, I think express
concern about treating these transactions as promotion
under the statute. But the question --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I would have the same
concern if we were dealing with concealment.
MR. ROBERTS: What I don't --
JUSTICE SOUTER: If the robbery takes place
in a dark alley, is that automatically concealment?
MR. ROBERTS: No, because what needs to be
concealed, what there needs to be is a financial
transaction that's designed, the transaction itself, to
conceal the nature and source of the proceeds.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's going into the alley
instead of doing it out on the --
MR. ROBERTS: I don't think that doing a
robbery in the alley would be a financial transaction --
would be designing a financial transaction to conceal
the unlawful nature and source of the proceeds.
But if I can give you an example of --
JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Roberts, isn't it true
that the problems that are being highlighted are
problems that result from expansive interpretations of
other concepts that are not before us here, expansive
interpretation of promotion, expansive interpretation of
concealment?
The Seventh Circuit in the first appeal in
this case interpreted promotion very broadly. And then,
I guess it felt that it had boxed itself in and that's
what led to this interpretation of proceeds. But if you
interpret those other concepts more narrowly, you don't
have the same kind of overlap.
MR. ROBERTS: I agree with that, Your Honor.
I was going to try to say to Justice Souter's question
before that if you have concerns that these kind of
expense payments should not be treated as promotional
money laundering, the way to address those is not by
adopting a profit construction of proceeds, because that
would do tremendous violence to the statute in other
ways.
And I do think that there are --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the
qualification that Judge Easterbrook made when he said,
at least where the crime is a business-like operation?
He gave the example of gambling, he gave the example of
selling contraband.
And it seems to me that he was narrowing his
definition of proceeds to cases where the crime is not
robbery or a one-time event, but a business-like
operation.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think it's difficult
to interpret the proceeds, the term "proceeds," to mean
something different for business operations than for
other crimes because it's the same word. But even so,
Your Honor, there are other ways --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't you
continue. I'm sorry. I didn't know you weren't done.
MR. ROBERTS: Okay. I'm sorry.
Even so, there are other ways in which a
profits definition just makes no sense under this
statute, besides the numerous concealment transactions
that would be excluded that Congress would have no
reason not to cover. It also would make no sense as
applied to professional money launderers. Those are
people who are hiding money for criminals as a matter of
their business. Because they wouldn't be guilty of
money laundering, even if they knew that they were
concealing money that was generated by a Federal felony,
unless they also knew that the money was profits.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your
answer to the line of questioning that we were having
was that the problem would still be there, even if you
limited this statute to profits. You take the two bank
robbers in Justice Kennedy's hypothetical, the one that
robs the bank, the other in the get-away car. If before
the robber gave the money to the person in the get-away
car, he said, now, you know, I'm keeping $100 because I
had to buy the gun and that was $100, so you only get
400, so it's only the profits that they're splitting,
you'd have the same problem, wouldn't you?
MR. ROBERTS: That's right. That's another
point, Your Honor, that a profits definition itself
isn't going to solve the problem of where the underlying
crime and the money laundering --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It will solve a lot them.
And unless you're willing to come in and say, yes, do it
to us, give us a narrower definition of concealment and
a narrower definition of what's a transaction, but
you're not willing to do that. You're going to stretch
that as broadly as you can.
MR. ROBERTS: It's not going to -- it's
not -- first of all, this case doesn't present the
interpretation of promotion and the Court would be free
to address that in --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Maybe the question
presented doesn't present it -- -
MR. ROBERTS: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But I think the facts of
the case do present it. I mean, it's theoretically
possible we could agree with you on the profits issue,
but nevertheless say this doesn't fit the promotion.
MR. ROBERTS: You certainly could, Your
Honor. But that would not be an alternative ground that
would be appropriate for you to rule on in this case,
because that issue was raised on direct appeal. It was
decided against Respondents by the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand all that, but
we can still do it if it's perfectly obvious that that's
the right way to dispose of the case.
MR. ROBERTS: You can obviously address any
issue that you want to, Your Honor. But the ordinary
rule is that issues that have been decided on direct
review shouldn't be relitigated on collateral attack.
The issue wasn't addressed by either of the courts below
in these collateral proceedings.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wouldn't it be --
MR. ROBERTS: We do submit that it was
resolved correctly in this case, because, as the Seventh
Circuit held and as all the other courts of appeals have
held about promotion, the payments to the winners and
the payments to the collectors encourage the continued
participation of the collectors and encourage the
increased participation by gamblers.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Roberts, the Seventh
Circuit in this case was following a precedent in
another case and it thought that the defendant was would
prevail under its theory.
If this Court should say that that theory,
that it's profits and not proceeds that matter, wouldn't
it be appropriate for us, if we don't decide the
question ourselves, to remand and say, Seventh Circuit,
your precedent was wrong; but you could consider a
question that was not necessary for you to reach because
you had your precedent on the profits issue?
MR. ROBERTS: You could do that, but the
question that I think that is concerning the Court was
resolved by the Seventh Circuit in this very case on
direct appeal. So on direct appeal, the argument was
made by Mr. Santos that these transactions can't count
as promotional money laundering because they're
essential transactions of the business and that they
don't promote the carrying on of the business, and the
court of appeals rejected those arguments.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You might well reject it if
you're going to have a narrow definition of proceeds. I
mean, that rejection was connected with its acceptance
of a narrow definition of proceeds. And if you're
asking us to obliterate the latter, I don't know why it
isn't reasonable to send it back to the Seventh Circuit
and say, well, you still said the same thing if you came
out differently on the proceeds question.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, we certainly would
prefer that you did that than that you interpreted
proceeds to mean profits because of the violence that it
would do to the remainder of the statute, Your Honor.
I was talking about professional money
launderers before and how they wouldn't be guilty of
money laundering if they were concealing money that they
knew that was generated by a crime. And Congress --
there's no reason that Congress would have considered
those professional money launderers to be less culpable
merely because they might be laundering only illicit
receipts.
And It would be very difficult for the
government to prove that professional money launderers
knew that they were laundering profits because they
haven't participated in the predicate crime.
JUSTICE BREYER: I've got that point, but
what is your suggestion as to how to deal with what is
underlying disturbing me and it seems like a lot of
others, if prima facie Congress did not intend that you
launder money where the activity is an essential part of
the underlying crime itself? And there are three ways
of dealing with that:
One is this gross receipts method, which has
the defects you mentioned.
The second is a definition of "promotion"
which says when you promote a crime that's different
from engaging in the crime.
And the third is sentencing; because it's a
real offense sentencing method and where what you've
done is nothing more than the underlying crime, the
sentence should be nothing more than the underlying
crime. I see three ways to get to the same problem, and
you're asking us to decide them piecemeal, yet they're
related. What do I do?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think you decide the
question presented here and you decide that proceeds
means that -- that proceeds means gross receipts,
because that's the only meaning that makes sense with
the statute.
But the sentencing point you make is a very,
very good one, Your Honor. And the fact is that the
Sentencing Guidelines were changed in 2001 to align the
punishment for money laundering when people participate
in the underlying crime much more with the punishment
level for the underlying crime.
And -- you know, in addition, as we know,
the Sentencing Guidelines are advisory, and so courts
could certainly take into account concern about
overlap --
JUSTICE BREYER: But still your answer
leaves me -- and I have no answer to this; I want yours.
I want you to see that I'm in -- at risk here as a judge
of getting whipsawed, that I first decide this case for
you; and the next case, all kinds of arguments appear
that I hadn't thought of; and then the third case,
again. But if I could have them somehow together, I
could look at the least evil way or the most efficient
way of achieving the congressional objective.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think that you can't
have all of them together, Your Honor, unfortunately.
But I do think that we would say that out of the three
that you raised, the best way to deal with concerns
about this would be in the sentencing context.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I find that extraordinary.
You really come in and say yeah, two crimes, assume
Congress meant ordinary gambling crime to carry with it
this other extraordinarily high penalty for the same
activity that involves the gambling, but don't worry
about it, we'll even it out in the sentencing.
I mean -- that's no way to run a railroad.
MR. ROBERTS: It's not -- Your Honor, it's
just not exactly the same activity, because people can
commit gambling without commit money laundering. They
can be guilt of illegal gambling without being guilty of
money laundering --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Straighten that out in the
definition of the crime, rather than in the --
MR. ROBERTS: But they can be -- even under
this definition, Your Honor. In this very case there
were restaurant and tavern owners that permitted the
gambling bets to be taken on their premises because it
increased their -- the patronage of their businesses.
And they were convicted of participating in illegal
gambling operations. They didn't commit money
laundering, because they didn't engage in a financial
transaction that's not an element of the gambling
offense, that involves the proceeds of the offense, and
that's intended either to conceal the proceeds --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- Mr. Roberts -- that the
gambling offense is conducting a gambling business, so
it makes it -- it is not just the gambling itself --
MR. ROBERTS: It is -- but the statute
defines what the three -- the statue defines what the
three elements of the gambling business are, Your Honor.
That it's illegal gambling that's illegal under State
law, that involves 5 or more persons, that it has --
continues for more than 30 days or has more than $2,000
in gross revenues in a day.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What continues? The
business has to continue. You are not engaging in a
gambling business if you're not paying off the winners.
That's all. That's not a good decent honest gambling
business.
(Laughter.)
MR. ROBERTS: The gambling business -- it
might be gambling and fraud, Your Honor. But the
gambling business can continue for more than 30 days
without having paid the winners if they had a lottery
every month, and it was at the end of the month -- they
hadn't paid the winners yet, it would have gone for the
30 days, in a 31-day month without -- without having
paid the winners.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- if your definition
of proceeds is problematic, it is something like an
abstract question you're asking us to answer. If this
-- if we say well, we're not sure this is proceeds but
if it is proceeds, it is defined as gross receipts.
That's an artificial context in which to
address the issue.
MR. ROBERTS: Yes. I think that what
they're asking you to do is to interpret -- and what the
Seventh Circuit has done, is to interpret proceeds in a
way that makes no sense for the statute in order to deal
with these concerns about promotion cases that can be
dealt with in the other ways that Justice Breyer raised.
And there are really four --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Robert, may I go back
to something you said about -- of the options that
Justice Breyer mentioned.
You said the way to handle it is in
sentencing.
Santos was sentenced to 60 months on the
gambling counts and 210 months on the laundering. You
said the statute has been changed. So what would be the
sentence under the statute as it now exists? And this
is vastly disproportionate. 60 months for gambling, and
210 for money laundering.
MR. ROBERTS: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I
probably should know the answer to what the precise
range would be under the guidelines. Now, I don't. But
what I do know is before, the way the guidelines worked
was that the base offense level for a money laundering
crime was not tied to the offense level for the
underlying offense. So it was set I think starting at
23 for promotional money laundering.
But what happened in 2001 is that the
commission changed the rules so that when you -- when
the money laundering involves the person who
participated in the underlying offense and has also done
the money laundering, you start with the offense level
for the underlying offense and then you make some minor
increases depending upon the type and the --
JUSTICE BREYER: I have it in front of me
actually. I was looking at it. And it seems to me what
it assumes is that the underlying offense is different
from the money laundering. And do you have any
rationale at all as to why this individual, if it's true
that he did nothing more than engage in the underlying
offense, why should he receive one day more than 60
months?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, because he does engage
in something more than what he needs to do to be
punished for the underlying offense, and that conduct is
-- and that conduct is -- promotes ongoing crime or can
conceal ongoing crime in ways that are just what
Congress was getting at in the statute. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because gambling under the
definition has the three elements that do not include
paying off the winners. That's what it all represents
--
MR. ROBERTS: Because -- well, that's one
thing, but the other thing is, Your Honor, if I could
talk about the ways that the proceeds definition just
doesn't make sense here. If these expense payments --
the expense payments for instance, the payment of the
salary that Mr. Santos made to Mr. Diaz -- it happens in
this very case, although we didn't prosecute it as
concealment money laundering -- that he recorded those
payments as salary payments by a printing business that
he owned.
And he's doing that to conceal the activity,
to enable it to keep going. And that's just what
Congress was trying to get in the statute. Wouldn't be
covered under a profits definition. If criminals
concealed the gross receipts temporarily until they pay
the expenses -- for instance, if a gambling operator
takes the money that -- his illicit receipts from the
gambling, and he puts it in the bank account of the
printing business. And then later he uses it to pay the
winning betters, he's doing that to hide it so the
gambling operation can keep going. That's what Congress
was trying to get at here. That wouldn't be covered.
That -- that evades detection just as much
as transactions that hide profit.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You are saying it would
not be covered as money laundering, but nevertheless it
would be illegal and be punished as gambling.
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, it would, Your Honor.
But the conduct, the concealment conduct --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And everything they've
done here would be punished as gambling --
MR. ROBERTS: -- the concealment conduct is
additional conduct, and it is what Congress wanted to
get at here, and a profits definition would mean that it
is excluded from the statute.
And it would exclude the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you see the problem
we have is we're not sure that it is within the statute.
So then you're asking us to say how to make the statute
work when we don't think the statute's applicable at
all.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I guess if you don't
think that concealing expense payments should be
covered, if you don't think concealing money that is --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Can you imagine running a
illegal gambling business and advertising your expenses?
I mean, you have got to conceal these --
MR. ROBERTS: It's not a question of
advertising them, Your Honor. It's not a question of
advertising them, but it is a question of taking
additional conduct to conceal them.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But it's not additional
conduct. That's the point.
MR. ROBERTS: It is additional conduct. He
didn't need to record it on the books of the -- on the
books of his printing business.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What if he puts it in a tin
can and buries it in the garden? Is that additional
conduct?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course it is.
MR. ROBERTS: It's additional conduct, but
it's not designed to conceal the unlawful nature --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why isn't it? Do you put
your salary in tin cans in the garden?
MR. ROBERTS: I might like to keep my money
in the cookie jar -- and it's perfectly legitimate
money, Your Honor -- because I don't want when someone
comes into my house that -- for them to steal the cash.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I just don't see how you
can make the distinction you're making, and therefore I
don't see how you can avoid Justice Stevens's problem.
MR. ROBERTS: If he takes the money, Your
Honor, and he structures his payments to his employees
by making them -- or to his suppliers, by making them in
$9,000 increments in order to evade transaction
reporting requirements, that wouldn't be covered either
under this interpretation of the statute.
JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Roberts, isn't it true
that the Seventh Circuit's interpretation of proceeds
doesn't really solve these problems except in the case
of an unprofitable business? In the case of a
profitable illegal enterprise, all of the same problems
exist.
MR. ROBERTS: I think there are many
situations, as the Chief Justice pointed out, in which a
profits definition isn't going to be enough to solve it.
For instance, just a drug dealer accepts payment for the
drugs. If that money exceeds the cost of the business,
it would presumably be profit and without some other
requirement in the statute, it would count as money
laundering. And for instance, when street-level dealers
that are employed by a drug kingpin turn the receipts
over to the kingpin even after they've take out their
share, let's say -- under a profits definition if those
receipts exceeded the costs of the business that would
also be covered as money laundering. So I think it's
very true that the profits definition isn't going to
solve all the problems as well.
That's a -- you know -- another point about
it.
It also means that what we have to prove
profits that that's going to be very difficult for us to
do even in cases that don't involve these expense
payments because criminals often don't keep accounting
records. They certainly don't keep records that are
accurate and complete and decipherable by law
enforcement. And Congress recognized the lack of hard
evidence of criminal profits, and for that reason
Congress provided for the forfeiture of proceeds rather
than profits in the RICO and drug forfeiture statutes.
And there's no reason to think Congress took a different
approach here in the money laundering statute, two years
later, when it used the same term "proceeds."
There's also -- there's the issue of the
uncertainty that would be created by a profits
definition, because it would raise all these questions,
and there are no accounting rules to resolve them.
And even the court below acknowledged that
it's difficult to determine what is and isn't net
income, and that the line between paying expenses and
reinvesting that income is murky.
And I don't think the Court should lightly
assume that Congress intended a definition of an element
of the offense that's going to raise these numerous
issues about the scope of that essential element of the
offense. And the Court is going to have to resolve them
all without any guidance from Congress.
So if I could reserve the reminder of my
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. ROBERTS: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Vare.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF TODD G. VARE
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS
MR. VARE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
Justice Ginsburg, you have suggested
correctly that the only conduct in this case was the
payment of ordinary and necessary expenses of the
business.
Justice Scalia, you correctly suggested that
paying off winners is necessary to every gambling
operation.
Justice Breyer, you have correctly suggested
and stated that the money laundering statute is intended
to punish different conduct, different criminal activity
than the underlying criminal activity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Didn't Justice Alito
correctly suggest that these merger problems would still
persist even under your definition of "proceeds"?
MR. VARE: I think that that is not
necessarily true. The merger problems would -- would
exist except for the "profits definition," certainly on
the facts of these cases -- on this case.
On this case the only facts that were
presented by the Government -- and they have conceded
that they did not present any evidence of profits.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but I mean if
you have a "profits" definition and the enterprise has
profits, all of these problems we've been talking about
in terms of the merger, as I call it, between the money
laundering and the underlying offense would still be
there, right?
MR. VARE: Yes, Your Honor. There would.
There would. And, in fact, Justice Alito also correctly
suggested that the reason why the Scialabba panel
decided the "proceeds" definition is profits was because
of the expansive interpretation and application of the
other aspects of the statute, and that they were left
with essentially no choice.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So why are you urging us to
create two problems, to drag along all of the problems
that you object to with -- with interpreting proceeds to
include simply covering your expenses? You acknowledge
that the problems you point out would continue to exist
if we accept your definition.
On the other hand, I think you have to
acknowledge that accepting your definition creates other
problems of its own, such as the difficulty in every
case of showing that an illegal operation made a profit,
such as the difficulty of deciding what kind of criteria
you use for determining what are the -- what are the
ordinary and necessary expenses of a criminal
enterprise.
Why should we -- why should we choose to get
the worst of both worlds? And why isn't the proper way
to attack the difficulty to focus in on what constitutes
a transaction and what constitutes concealment --
something other than the "proceeds" definition?
MR. VARE: I think you're absolutely
correct, Justice Scalia. And, in fact, in our
opposition to the petition for cert in this case, we
made this very point as to why this was not the right
case to determine all of these issues, and particularly
the burdens that have been presented by the government.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did you argue at any point
that these were not proceeds?
MR. VARE: Yes, Your Honor, we did.
Justice Kennedy, in the briefing in the opposition to
cert and in our response brief, we have set forth
distinct arguments that there are not separate
transactions distinct and different from the underlying
criminal activity.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did you argue that in the
court of appeals?
MR. VARE: That was presented as -- that was
presented as part of the Febus decision as an argument
that those transactions did not constitute distinct and
separate transactions from gambling. That was presented
in the pro se petition and acknowledged by the
government in responding to the pro se petition below.
The government acknowledged that the
question in Febus, the question in Scialabba, the
question in this case on habeas are legally and
factually indistinguishable. And I think Justice
Stevens has suggested that all of this is inherent in
the question presented.
A fair -- it is fairly included because to
look at the statutory context of the word "proceeds" is
necessary for an intelligent resolution of the meaning
of that word as well as how it plays throughout the rest
of the statute.
JUSTICE BREYER: The question is can you
violate the statute by financial transactions which --
have you promoted the crime, when those transactions are
no more than part of the crime itself?
That's basically the question. And I think
Justice Kennedy is asking if, in fact, we wanted to
reach that question, is this a case in which we could do
it, through reargument or in some other way?
MR. VARE: I think that that is a question
that this Court could resolve on the facts of this case,
or --
JUSTICE BREYER: And was it raised in the
court below?
MR. VARE: It was -- it was raised in the
court below as -- as inherent -- well, it was certainly
raised in the Febus, in the direct appeal.
It is inherent in the 2255 petition filed
pro se by my client, Mr. Santos. It was acknowledged by
the government that these issues are not legally or
factually distinguishable.
And again, it is inherent in the question
that's presented. The money laundering statute requires
conducting a financial transaction involving the
proceeds of the specified unlawful activity with the
intent to promote the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I think it is a
stretch so far as the question presented. The question
presented is very clear whether or not it is gross
receipts or net profits. That's what we're asked to
resolve.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not your question
presented.
MR. VARE: Absolutely not, Justice Ginsburg.
It is not our question presented, but we do feel that,
even in answering that question, whether or not it is
net or gross does require looking at the term in
context. And -- and the context, we're not looking at a
different statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I didn't see that
you presented -- a separate question presented in your
opposition.
MR. VARE: We did , Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is that?
MR. VARE: In the -- Mr. Chief Justice --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not at page (ii).
MR. VARE: In Mr. Santos' brief. And the
question presented there was --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Brief in opposition --
MR. VARE: The brief in opposition on the
very first page.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, but I am looking
at the orange one, not the red one. The orange one is
what we have before us when we decide whether or not to
grant certiorari. And there you don't have a different
question presented.
MR. VARE: No, we did not -- in the
opposition to the cert petition we did not present a
different question presented as a question presented.
But we did present the argument --
Mr. Santos did and Mr. Diaz did -- that there were no
separate transactions that promoted the carrying on of
the specified unlawful activity. Rather, all that the
government had presented in this case was merely
conducting the illegal gambling business.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If we adopt your
position, we will have to decide a question like, for
example, if the argument is I didn't have any profits
because I had to pay $10,000 for a hit man to kill
somebody, we would have to have a judicial decision
that, yes, paying hit men is the ordinary and necessary
business expense in carrying out illegal gambling
operations, right?
MR. VARE: I think, Mr. Chief Justice, in
any case you're going to have to look at what the
specified unlawful activity is in the context of a money
laundering prosecution, because that is part of the
context.
And so in this case you have to look at what
is the ordinary conduct of an illegal gambling business.
And I would suggest that paying off a hit man most
likely would not fall into that category. But,
certainly, as many of the Justices, including Justice
Scalia and Justice Stevens and others have suggested,
that when a gambling business pays off its winners, that
is inherent -- that is integral -- to conducting a
gambling business. It is not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's take two
illegal gambling operations that are identical in every
way except that the one pays the runners, you know, $200
a week. The other pays the runners $500 a week. And
the one that pays $500 doesn't make any profits because
he's paying too much to the runners.
The first one, the more successful
operation, you say, can be prosecuted for money
laundering because its has profits. The other one
doesn't. So incompetence is rewarded.
MR. VARE: No, Mr. Chief Justice. I would
say that neither one could be prosecuted for money
laundering because in both situations --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the --
MR. VARE: -- when in both situations the
gambling operator is simply paying off ordinary business
expenses. Just the collectors who are part and parcel
of running the illegal gambling business, they're one of
the participants. And that's part of the illegal
gambling statute, is that you have to have five or more
participants.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I'm focusing on
the question presented -- that was the only question
presented when we considered whether to grant certiorari
by either of the parties, and that focuses solely on the
question of whether "proceeds" is considered gross
revenues or profits.
MR. VARE: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, what I
-- what I believe is the answer to your question is --
is you cannot look at the term "proceeds" in isolation.
And Justice Breyer, you know, suggested that the reason
why we're even here today, arguing about what I believe
is just absurd and unwarranted results on the facts of
this case, is because the courts below -- and the
government has proposed expansive interpretations -- the
courts below have adopted, in some cases and not others,
these expansive interpretations.
JUSTICE ALITO: But this doesn't --
"proceeds" must mean the same thing in every money
laundering case, doesn't it? And every money laundering
case is not based on a gambling business. There are
drug businesses and all sorts of other predicates.
MR. VARE: Well --
JUSTICE ALITO: Can it mean something
different in -- depending on the underlying illegal
activity?
MR. VARE: I think there is certainly a
suggestion, but that this Court itself has made recently
in the Duke Energy case, that a term can have multiple
meanings, multiple shades of meanings, and that will
depend upon the context. So you have to look at the
context and the specified unlawful activity is context.
Now, I'm not suggesting that we adopt a
definition of proceeds as net profits in one case for
one unlawful activity or gross profits for another
unlawful activity or gross receipts for another one.
But the problem that we have presented to us
today is due to the piecemeal construction and
application of this statute and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Vare, you know, I'm --
I'm unwilling to decide the definition of transaction
question in the present case because, frankly, I think
that's a -- in itself, a very difficult question which
we haven't had adequately argued. For example, while I
believe, as I've indicated earlier, that paying off the
winners is -- is an essential part of a gambling
operation, I don't believe that paying off runners
necessarily is. You can have a gambling operation
without runners, can't you? You can --
MR. VARE: You could have --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can -- you can view
that as something beyond the mere -- the mere gambling
crime. I don't -- I don't think you can view that
paying off the winners is beyond the gambling crime, but
I do think having a bunch of runners and paying off each
of them is not necessarily part of gambling.
MR. VARE: Well, you can have a gambling
business without runners per se.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly.
MR. VARE: But you do need, Justice Scalia,
you do need five or more participants. And the courts
below have defined participants as -- as owners or
partners, bartenders, cocktail waitresses, doormen,
employees of the business.
And if those are qualifying participants to
even establish the -- the predicate for an illegal
gambling business, then those participants are most
likely going to get paid, and if they get paid, then
that is simply part of conducting an illegal gambling
business.
I think the fact -- I mean, the fact that
the runner in this case, the bet collector, Mr. Diaz, is
probably -- you know, illustrates best the unwarranted
result in this case. Mr. Diaz did nothing more in this
case than collect wages of about $150 a month or a week,
something along those lines, for simply collecting
debts, and he was convicted of money laundering and
sentenced to 9 years in jail.
Mr. Santos, my client, all he did was pay
winners and pay those bet collectors to collect debts,
and he -- his sentence was nearly quadrupled.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So someone who
simply paid off whoever it is that ships in, you know, a
ton of heroin, you'd say is not guilty then? Same
thing. I mean, you're just paying off the people who
engage in the activities that are necessary for the
continuation and promotion of the illegal enterprise.
MR. VARE: Well, I -- I think in that case,
Mr. Chief Justice, I would -- I would suggest it might
be an incomplete hypothetical, because simply paying the
expenses of a crime or simply buying more drugs is not
in and of itself -- and I think the government has
conceded that in their opening -- that's not in and of
itself money laundering. There has to be a transaction
that is conducted with the intent to promote the
carrying on or separately a transaction that is designed
to conceal the legitimate or the illegitimate source of
-- of the funds received.
So simply receiving proceeds from an
unlawful activity is not enough. And that's clear on
the statutory language. You either have to have some
promotion element or some concealment element.
JUSTICE ALITO: Let me go back to the
question of the definition of "proceeds."
Isn't it very unlikely that Congress would
have wanted -- wanted to adopt the net income definition
in light of the legal issues and the problems of proof
that that would involve?
Let's take the example of an international
drug ring that has assets in a foreign country. They
may have crops. They may have processing plants,
warehouses, trucks, airplanes, et cetera. They ship
millions of dollars of drugs into the United States.
They get millions of dollars in gross revenue here every
year. They hire a professional money launderer to
launder the money here. Now, the Government wants to
prosecute the money -- the person they hired plus
members of the organization.
The person they hired may not know and may
not care whether the money that was being laundered was
profits or not. And how are you going to prove what --
whether this enterprise was a profitable enterprise or
not? They may have -- and they may have enormous gross
revenue, but they may have -- they may have enormous
expenses overseas. They may have bought a lot of
warehouses and equipment. They may have lost a lot of
things because they were raided by the government,
destroyed the factory, killed the plants.
It becomes as impossible situation, and why
would Congress ever have adopted a definition like that?
MR. VARE: Well, Justice Alito, I don't
think it's an impossible situation, number one, and I'll
get to that in a second. To address your first
question, could Congress have intended this to mean
profits knowing that the burdens were so difficult?
To answer that question, then you must look
at what else Congress intended, and there's no question
that Congress intended to punish different conduct than
the underlying criminal activity.
And then you have to look at what Congress
intended to get at when they wanted to fill the gap in
criminal law, when they want wanted to punish crimes
that were not previously punished.
They focused on getting at ill-gotten gains
of criminal enterprises. They focused -- and our
briefs, you know, set forth the statements that are
replete through the debates on the floor, that the
Congress was focused on profits of criminal enterprises.
Congress was not focused on the unprofitable
criminal enterprise because --
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm sure that's true. They
wouldn't be that worried about the unprofitable criminal
enterprises because they wouldn't last very long. But
there's the -- there still is the problem of proof --
MR. VARE: Absolutely, Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- proving that it's
profitable.
MR. VARE: And the proof problem --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not just proving that it's
profitable; proving that the person laundering it knew
that it was profits because that's part of the
definition of the crime, that scienter. And how can you
prove that the fellow knew that it was profits? He
would very rarely know whether it was or wasn't. So he
skips off scot-free free of the laundering crime.
MR. VARE: Well, Justice Scalia, the intent
or the knowledge or the scienter requirement is going to
be present. It's going to be a burden on the government
to prove, no matter what definition of proceeds is.
But in terms of proving profits, the
government is able to prove profits in other criminal
financial transaction-type cases in a number of ways.
They're not limited to a particular accounting method.
They can choose the accounting method that they want.
They're not limited to looking at day after day after
day, week after week after week of financial records.
They can aggregate records that are selected from
particular points in time. And even in --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how do they
know even what the fiscal year of these enterprises is?
I mean let's suppose you have some costs. They have to
buy the poppy field or wherever, but, you know, over 3
years, they're going to make a lot of money. You're
saying you can't prosecute them in year 2?
MR. VARE: No, I'm not saying that at all,
Mr. Chief Justice, and I think my point would be the
government would not even need to look at a fiscal year
to prove profits. They would be able to look at a
period of time and through their extensive search and
seizure efforts --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My point is the
profits may not come in immediately, even though the
underlying activity is exactly the same.
MR. VARE: That may be the case. They may
have a difficult burden of proving profits in the early
stages, but most of these prosecutions practically occur
after a period of time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean what -- what's the
total stage you look at? Suppose it's profitable 1
month and not the next month, and the loss the second
month more than undoes the profits of the first month.
Can you still prosecute them for the profits in the
first month?
MR. VARE: Certainly, based upon the profits
in the first month. They're not limited to that. I
mean --
JUSTICE SCALIA: One day they could pick
then, they have one good day. And they could --
MR. VARE: And they could profit on that one
good day if there are other transactions involved in the
profits.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What about the bank robber
-- there's just one bank robbery. They spend $500 to
each, to people for their airfare and car rental. They
rob the bank. They only get $800. They lost $200.
They then give the $800 to the attorney to please -- or
to somebody to please launder the money. No profits?
MR. VARE: I don't think that that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That would be a very silly
result.
MR. VARE: Well, I -- I don't think that,
under that hypothetical, even the government would
charge those criminals with money laundering.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. They gave it to a
third person to conceal it, $800.
MR. VARE: Well, if there's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: 8,000, 8 million.
MR. VARE: Simply giving money to somebody
else does not meet the concealment and disguisement
element. I mean, there has to be an effort made to
disguise the source of the income as being illegitimate.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Assume that it's proceeds.
Assume that they have a money launderer. Under your
definition there's still no violation?
MR. VARE: I suppose I would say no. And
I'm going to explain why I have to say no, and I'm going
to give you a medical word. The profits construction is
not perfect. There's no question about that.
But we're here today because it's the only
way to resolve the case that came up to this Court based
upon the expansive interpretations of the rest of the
money laundering cases.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well that's -- but
we don't try to solve every case. We look at particular
questions presented. And maybe there's going to be
another case coming up in which the issue of how broadly
you should construe promotion is, or whether you should
have a different definition when the offenses are merged
or not. And we'll confront that when it gets here.
It seems to me that your argument is --
maybe your best argument, but your argument, anyway, is
let's avoid this question because of these other
mistakes that have been made, mistakes which are not
presented to us on the question on which we granted
cert.
MR. VARE: I think, Mr. Chief Justice, I'm
not asking this Court to avoid any question. What I am
saying is that there is a profits construction that if
you apply the traditional rules of statutory
construction, if you look at the text -- the word
itself, "proceeds," does not have a single plain meaning
as gross receipts. It is ambiguous. And it has
multiple shades of meaning depending upon the context.
If you look at the term "proceeds" in
context then, then it will depend upon how one is using
it. If I were selling a house, and I asked somebody on
the street what would be my proceeds from the sale of my
house, in that -- and only in that context, some would
say it is the gross. Some would say it is the net.
Some would say it depends.
Well, it depends upon what? It depends upon
context. That is included in the question presented.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, let's take this
context.
There is, if you are going to go with
profit, a question of what expenses? That's one of the
difficulties of working with a net proceeds, because we
don't know what the expenses that you would deduct, and
the hit man was given as one example. You said no, not
that one. But salaries to the runners, yes.
To figure out what would count to come up
with a net figure is the least difficult, is it not?
MR. VARE: Justice Ginsburg, I think that it
is slightly more difficult in the case the government
has now, which is really no difficulty at all. I think
that it would depend upon the unlawful activity, the
specified unlawful activity, what would be the ordinary
expenses associated with doing that crime.
And lower courts are well equipped and
juries are well equipped to hear evidence, direct and
circumstantial, and make inferences and decide those
issues.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why does it have to be the
ordinary expense of that? I mean, let's assume the
charge is murder, and I happen to use a hit man for the
murder. That's proven and whatnot.
Why -- you mean, that isn't part of the
murder conviction, simply because I could have done it
without a hit man, I could have done it myself?
MR. VARE: No, I don't think so at all,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You think paying the hit
man would be part of the murder transaction?
MR. VARE: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Uh-huh.
MR. VARE: But I don't think that that
necessarily parlays into whether or not it is money
laundering or not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I understand.
MR. VARE: If, for example, the murderer
paid the hit man with money to kill somebody and then
paid -- you know, used proceeds from the insurance
premium that somebody might have been his wife or her
husband, and used the proceeds to pay off the money --
the hit man for the next crime or to reward him or
something else, to carry on the business or used the
insurance proceeds to conceal where they came from, then
I think you could create a hypothetical situation of
money laundering.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought it would
depend on whether or not the insurance proceeds exceeded
how much he had to pay the hit man, right? Let's say
he's not doing it to get the insurance money. It just
so happens he had a $50,000 policy on the victim --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He wanted to kill his wife,
right?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. He just wanted
to commit the murder, not get the money. And so he pays
the hit man $100,000, he gets the $50,000, and then uses
it for all these other activities, you'd say no money
laundering, because no profits?
MR. VARE: If we assume the expansive
interpretations of a transaction promoting the
underlying crime that have been presented in this case
and then we apply the profits definition, that might not
be money laundering. But, the money laundering statute
is not designed to cure that evil. That evil is
punished and punished severely by the murder statute.
It is punished as the underlying crime.
And so in this case, Mr. Santos and
Mr. Diaz -- or Mr. Santos was punished up to the maximum
of five years for running an illegal gambling business.
He didn't do anything else other than run a gambling
business.
And so I think the point is at the end of
the day, there are certainly a lot of hypothetical
situations that suggest a profits construction might
pose some burdens, might not make sense. But if you're
going to look at the burdens on the government in terms
of construing the term "proceeds," then you also must
look at the consequences of accepting the gross receipts
construction. And I think at the outset, nearly every
justice up here suggested -- well, that turns every
illegal gambling business into a money laundering
violation.
The government has no answer to that. Under
their interpretation as applied today, then every
illegal gambling operator will be guilty of money
laundering.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought their
answer was the money laundering statute covers a whole
waterfront of activities besides illegal gambling. And
the question is, what did Congress intend when they
passed the money laundering statute.
This is kind of the tail wagging the dog.
The tail is, well, it presents these problems when
you're talking about gambling operations, but there's a
whole rest of the dog area where it doesn't present a
problem.
MR. VARE: Well, I think what the money
laundering statute was intended to do was punish
different conduct, separate and distinct from the
underlying crime. And that different conduct is
inherent in conducting a financial transaction with the
intent to promote the carrying on of the unlawful
activity.
I do not think that you can parse the
statutory language and only address the term "proceeds"
irrespective of its consequences.
In fact, I think the questions directed to
me as to the harsh consequences on the government
approving profits shows that you have to look at the
term "proceeds" in its context. In its context includes
not only the burdens on the one hand, but it certainly
includes the situation we have here, that every illegal
gambling business is automatic money laundering. And
that is not what money laundering statute was enacted,
it's not what it was written or intended to address.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Vare.
Mr. Roberts, you have four minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ROBERTS: Thank you.
If I could first address the reasons why
this Court should not decide the separate transaction
issue itself in this case.
First of all, it's not the question
presented here which is limited to the meaning of the
statutory term "proceeds." Respondents didn't present
any alternative question in their briefs in opposition.
And, in fact, they don't present an alternative question
presented even in their briefs on the merits. They're
just using the concern about merger as a reason to
decide that proceeds means profit.
The separate transaction issue was decided
against Respondents adversely on direct appeal in the
Febus case, as my brother on the other side
acknowledged. And those kinds of issues that are
decided adversely on direct appeal shouldn't be
relitigated.
The issue wasn't raised in the separate
transaction issue, it wasn't raised in the Section 2255
issues, and wasn't addressed by the courts below in
these collateral proceedings.
At most, we say it should be left open for
another case that presents -- that presents the issue.
Beyond that, if this Court thought that something should
be left open for the court below to address, the court
below could address a range of possible ways to deal
with ensuring a separation, for example, Justice
Stevens's suggestion that an illegal gambling business
under the statute itself entails the payment of winners
and the payment of employees, although we don't think
that it does.
But a profits definition is not the way to
address concerns about overlap for the underlying
offense, because it makes no sense in the broader
context of the statute.
It would create significant uncertainty
about the scope of the statute because of the absence of
accounting rules. It would make proof very difficult as
a general matter because of the absence of those rules
and because criminals often don't keep accounting
records. It would exclude numerous concealment
transactions that Congress had no reason not to cover,
and it would cripple the government's ability to
prosecute professional money launderers, which are
really a significant part of the problem that Congress
was addressing.
If the Court has no further questions, we
would ask that the judgments of the court of appeals be
reversed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon at 12:00 noon, the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
50:25 50:18 26:17 34:16 bunch 35:7
39:7 45:6 adopt 31:11 apply 3:24 43:11 37:5 burdens 27:19
adversely 49:10 approving 48:9 bartenders 5:13 9:5,18
advertising argue 27:20 base 18:21 16:23 17:4,5,7
aggregate 40:4 arguing 4:14,14 basic 5:17 22:5 23:5,12
39:25 airfare 41:16 argument 1:13 behalf 1:18,19 31:10,17,25
50:10,12 airplanes 37:14 2:2,7 3:3,6 2:4,6,9 3:7 32:5,7,23,25
27:2 33:20 34:1 arguments BENEDICTO 48:13 49:25
28:9,11 39:7,8 27:25 best 15:16 35:25 16:11 33:24
49:12 alley 7:11,16,19 artificial 17:22 43:3 business-like
46:7 49:4,5 43:18 bets 16:10 buy 10:5 40:9
ambiguous asking 12:25 betters 20:19 buying 36:18
16:1
25:20,21 answer 9:23 43:9 49:21 C 2:1 3:1
29:20 15:4,5 17:19 aspects 26:18 books 22:4,5 call 26:10
34:3,9 18:18 33:11 assets 37:12 bought 38:2 cans 22:13
37:2 38:13 47:8,13 Assistant 1:16 boxed 8:6 car 6:15 10:2,4
40:20 answering 30:6 associated 44:15 Breyer 13:20 41:16
48:3 anyway 43:3 assume 15:19 15:4 18:4,8 care 37:22
22:1,3,7 49:10,13 assumes 19:9 33:13 carrying 12:19
appeals 11:21 attack 11:15 brief 27:24 31:7,17 36:23
11:12 50:20 attorney 41:18 briefing 27:23 case 3:4 8:5
38:10 appear 15:8 automatic 48:13 briefs 38:23 10:19 11:1,6
APPEARAN... automatically 49:4,6 11:11,20 12:2
15:7,8 43:8 45:22 concealing 9:20 considered court 1:1,13 3:9
16:8 20:6 46:4 47:12 13:10 21:17,18 13:12 33:6,8 10:20 12:5,13
25:12 48:17 50:22 concealment constitute 28:7 12:20 24:17,21
27:4,16 choice 26:19 3:24 7:8,11 8:3 constitutes 24:25 25:10
28:13 choose 27:9 40:1 9:13 10:14 27:11,12 28:4 29:6,9,11
31:9,20 Circuit 3:10 8:4 20:7 21:3,6 constrict 3:20 34:5 42:17
33:16,22 11:21 12:2,8 27:12 37:4 construction 43:9 48:24
34:6,11 12:14 13:1 42:6 50:13 8:15 34:15 49:21,22,22
35:24 18:1 conceded 26:5 42:14 43:10,12 50:19,20
Circuit's 23:3 36:20 46:24 47:4 courts 11:16,21
42:17,21 circumstantial concepts 8:1,8 construe 42:24 15:1 33:16,18
44:11 44:18 concern 5:4 7:5 construing 47:2 35:13 44:16
48:25 clear 3:15 29:24 7:8 15:2 49:7 context 3:15 49:17
50:23 37:2 concerning 15:17 17:22 cover 4:1,11
clearly 4:18 12:13 28:18 30:8,8 9:15 50:14
24:2 26:3 cocktail 35:15 15:16 18:3 34:9,9 43:15 4:18 20:13,21
39:24 collateral 11:15 50:5 43:17,20,24 20:25 21:18
11:17 49:18 conduct 5:15,19 44:1 48:10,10 22:25 23:20
43:7 5:12,22 11:23 25:20 31:25 17:4,11 26:24 created 24:14
13:4 15:2 come 5:24 10:13 conducting continuing 6:20 8:21,25 10:11
26:2 15:19 40:19 16:19 29:19 6:21,22 13:11,19,25
32:3 44:8 31:10 32:6 contraband 14:5,6,9,11,23
41:6 comes 6:17 35:21 48:1 8:23 14:24 15:20
48:11 22:17 confront 43:1 convicted 16:12 16:6 18:22
commission 4:9,15,21 9:14 conviction 44:25 28:25 35:5,6
19:1 16:2,2,13 46:5 20:12,20 21:7 correctly 11:20 46:11,16 47:25
4:5 25:1 37:7 38:7 26:14 15:19 38:19
23:9 25:4 conceal 3:18 4:2 38:25 39:1 costs 23:19 40:8 24:7 25:20,21
26:7 7:15,20 16:17 47:15 50:14,17 counsel 25:4 27:7 28:2
19:19 20:10 congressional 50:22 38:16,19,22,25
31:11,19 21:21,25 22:11 15:12 count 12:16 39:2,4,23
36:24 42:2 connected 12:23 23:14 44:8 criminals 3:17
36:9 45:19 consequences country 37:12 9:17 20:13
40:6,13 concealed 5:11 47:3 48:6,8 counts 18:12 24:3 41:25
42:20 7:13 20:14 consider 12:9 course 7:1 22:9 50:12
27:2 directed 48:7 37:4,4 42:7 evil 15:11 46:14
48:20 39:14,21 42:11 disguisement emphasizing 35:11 40:20
41:9 Department disproportion... employee 6:25 31:13 34:21
46:23 1:17 18:15 employees 22:22 37:11 44:6
49:23 45:23 distinction enacted 48:14 45:23
43:23,23 disturbing enforcement excluded 9:14
detection 20:22 dollars 37:15,16 enormous 37:25 expansive 7:25
30:24 determine 24:18 doormen 35:15 38:1 8:1,2 26:17
34:18 27:18 drag 26:21 ensuring 49:24 33:17,19 42:18
48:24 determining drug 5:6 23:11 entails 50:1 46:9
27:6 23:16 24:9 enterprise 23:6 expense 4:2 5:13
49:9,13 31:6 35:24 drugs 23:12 36:14 37:24,24 21:17 24:2
9:5 14:5 19:9 Duke 34:6 38:22,25 39:5 21:20 24:19
28:1 30:9,25 equipment 38:3 27:7 32:24
difficult 9:3 Easterbrook essential 12:18 extensive 40:16
9:12 10:9 40:22 44:9,11 effort 42:7 essentially 26:19 extraordinary
12:22 50:10 efforts 40:17 establish 35:18 4:20 6:6 15:18
14:4 difficulties 44:4 EFRAIN 1:6 et 37:14
27:15 foreign 37:12 19:20 38:21 37:16,25 43:14 21:2,23 22:16
35:23,23 forfeiture 24:8,9get-away 6:15 43:21 47:3 22:22 26:13
49:5 forth 27:24 6:17 10:2,3 ground 11:5 27:22 30:13
29:6 frankly 34:19 12:1 18:6 guidance 25:1 husband 45:16
fraud 17:10 25:11 30:2,4 guidelines 14:21 hypothetical
frequently 5:7 give 7:22 10:14 guilt 16:3 41:24 45:20
49:11 44:2 illegal 3:18 4:4
G 1:19 2:5 3:1 going 5:3 6:1,8,9 habeas 28:13 16:12,24,24
16:14 17:5,6,9,10,11 44:2 47:1 heavier 5:16 36:24 42:8
29:19 18:12,15 19:21 good 14:20 17:6 held 11:21,22 illicit 13:14
40:3 20:15,17,20 41:10,12 heroin 36:11 20:16
21:1,5,20 government hide 20:19,23 illustrates 35:25
30:21 32:5,7,9,23,25 29:15 31:9 highlighted 7:24 immediately
38:10 33:2,23 34:23 33:17 36:19 hire 37:17 40:19
48:23 34:25 35:4,6,8 37:18 38:4 hired 37:19,21 implicate 4:16
35:9,19,21 39:20,23 40:14 hit 31:14,16 impossible 38:6
gap 38:18 50:15 honest 17:6 included 28:17
39:1 generate 5:7 14:2,16 17:2 11:13 13:7 including 32:3
42:8 42:18 46:10 19:21 20:24 47:17 24:11 25:19
13:5 22:1,6,9,12,18 49:12 31:22 32:16,20
3:11 26:22 25:4,6,9,11,15 23:17 36:21 39:12,17
3:23 26:7,14,20 13:11,18 39:12 45:10,21 46:8
involved 4:3 29:2,8,22 30:2 9:9 10:4 12:25 48:13,14
16:16,25 19:2 31:11,19 32:3 32:10 33:13 leaves 15:5
48:6 34:1,17 35:3 38:23 39:16 49:22
17:23 24:13 39:11,18 40:6 knowledge legitimate 4:6
48:1 42:23 48:25 40:13,18,25 39:19 22:15 36:24
issues 11:14 42:1,4,9,20 L 32:8 37:11
29:15 37:9 44:20 45:3,4,7 language 37:3 44:21 45:24
jail 36:5 50:22 launder 5:8 lightly 24:21
24:22 judge 8:20 15:6 41:19 39:25 40:2
38:11,14 judgments K laundered 37:22 41:7 49:2
47:23 50:20 keep 6:22 20:11 launderer 37:17 line 9:23 24:19
judicial 31:15 20:20 22:14 42:10 lines 36:3
39:18 justice 1:17 3:3 keeping 10:4 13:9,13,17 look 15:11 28:18
3:8 4:8,10,19 Kennedy 6:13 50:16 31:20,24 33:12
6:4,12,13,24 27:20,23 28:3 3:13 5:3,10,18 40:14,15 41:1
18:1 8:11,19 9:8,22 41:14,21 42:1 10:11 12:17 47:1,3 48:9
10:20 11:9,18 12:1 Kennedy's 10:1 14:22 16:2,4 30:7,8,22 40:2
26:17 12:21 13:20 kill 31:14 45:13 16:14 18:12,16 loss 41:2
15:4,18 16:5 46:2 18:21,24 19:2 lost 38:3 41:17
38:2,3 26:1,10 49:7 44:23,25 45:5 obviously 11:12 organization
46:23 merits 49:6 46:5,15 occur 5:3 40:23 37:20
minor 19:5 narrow 12:22,24 18:23 19:3,4,5 owners 16:9
45:1,5 misconstrued 10:15 24:23,25 26:11
3:10 narrowing 8:24 50:6 P
mistakes 43:5,5 narrowly 8:8 offenses 42:25 P 3:1
39:21 5:11,18 6:10 7:21 22:11 Okay 9:10 30:21
8:14 9:16,17 nearly 36:8 47:4 one's 6:14 paid 4:5 5:11
2:3,8 3:6 10:3,11 12:17 34:25 35:8 ongoing 19:18 17:16 35:20,20
13:8,10,10,13 45:9 19:19 36:10 45:13,14
11:1 12:23 18:16,21,24 27:7 28:19 operation 5:25 parlays 45:9
15:24 19:2,4,10 20:7 31:16 36:13 6:6,21,23 8:21 parse 48:4
26:7 20:16,25 21:18 need 5:7 6:10 9:2 20:20 part 13:24 28:6
34:1 22:14,16,21 22:4 35:12,13 25:17 27:4 28:25 31:22
36:12 23:12,14,20 40:14 32:15 34:24,25 32:24 33:1
40:8,25 24:11 25:19 needs 7:12,13 operations 4:22 34:23 35:8,21
42:7 26:10 29:18 19:16 5:6 9:5 16:13 39:13 44:24
31:21 32:15,19 neither 32:19 31:18 32:9 45:5 50:17
28:19 36:21 37:17,18 30:7 34:11 operator 4:4 33:1,3 35:13
49:2 37:19,22 40:10 37:8 43:21 20:15 32:23 35:14,17,19
23:25 45:13,16,21,25 11:3 20:25 27:16,23 30:12 participated
46:5,7,13,13 noon 50:24 30:19,20 31:3 13:19 19:3
months 18:11,12 O 2:1 3:1 22:24 particularly
multiple 34:6,7 15:12 25:13 27:7 partners 35:15
36:6,7 plants 37:13 presumably 47:2 48:5,10 36:14 37:4
38:5 23:13 49:3,8 42:24
17:5 please 3:9 25:10 prevent 3:17 37:13 8:13 12:17
24:19 41:18,19 previously professional 18:24
31:16 plus 37:19 38:20 9:16 13:8,13 proof 37:9 39:6
point 10:9 13:20 prima 13:23 13:17 37:17 39:10 50:10
35:6 14:19 22:2 primary 3:14 50:16 proper 27:10
36:12,17 23:23 26:24 printing 20:8,18 profit 8:15 proposed 33:17
27:17,20 40:13 22:5 20:23 23:13 prosecute 20:6
23:11 pointed 23:9 29:14 44:3 49:8 41:4 50:16
50:1,2 points 40:5 probably 18:18 profitable 23:6 prosecuted
11:22,23 poppy 40:9 problem 9:24 41:1 prosecution
pose 46:25 10:7,10 14:11 profits 3:12,14 31:22
22:22 position 31:12 21:11 22:20 3:19 9:12,21 prosecutions
possible 4:12 34:14 39:6,10 9:25 10:6,9 40:23
46:5 practically problematic 13:6,18 20:13 prove 13:17
12:9,11 7:25 23:4,6,22 24:14 26:2,6,8 40:15
16:1 predicate 13:19 26:21,21,24 31:13 32:12,16 provided 24:8
41:16 35:18 27:3 37:9 33:9 34:11,12 proving 39:8,11
premises 16:10 11:17 49:18 40:15,19,22 38:15,19 47:23
39:12 39:20 47:20 12:22,24 13:3 prohibits 3:12 14:22,23
49:3,5 13:6 14:15,16 promote 3:18 put 22:12
29:13 27:19 28:5,6,8 20:2 23:3 24:8 36:22 48:2 Q
28:16 29:18,23 24:12 25:24 promoted 28:24 quadrupled
2:4,9 3:7 30:11,11,18 27:21 28:18 promotes 19:18 qualification
31:1,4,4,9 33:5 29:20 33:8,12 promoting 8:20
46:11 49:2,6 42:9 43:13,16 7:2,5 8:2,5 8:11 10:22
14:15 REBUTTAL resolve 24:16,25 4:9,13,24 5:2 20:5 29:14
21:22,23 2:7 48:20 29:6 30:1 5:20 6:3,7,19 30:17 31:6
28:12,12 receipts 3:13,15 42:17 7:3,9,12,18,23 36:6 46:17,18
13:15 14:2,16 resolved 11:20 8:10 9:3,8,10 saying 6:22
17:21 20:14,16 12:14 9:22 10:8,18 20:24 40:11,12
30:2,5,6 23:16,19 29:25 Respondent 10:24 11:4,12 43:10
31:1 34:13 43:14 1:20 11:19 12:1,12 says 4:11 14:5
33:5 47:3 Respondents 13:4 14:14 Scalia 4:8,10,19
receive 19:13 2:6 11:8 25:8 15:13,25 16:7 4:25 5:14,24
37:6 received 36:25 49:3,10 16:18,21 17:9 6:4,12 10:12
receiving 37:1 responding 17:24 18:17 12:21 15:18
43:4,6,9 recognized 24:6 28:10 19:15,25 21:2 16:5 17:3
44:3 record 22:4 response 27:24 21:6,16,22 19:21 22:9
49:1,4,5 recorded 4:4 rest 28:20 42:18 22:3,10,14,21 25:15 26:20
records 24:4,4 restaurant 16:9 25:22 26:7 34:17 35:3,11
42:22 red 30:23 result 7:25 36:1 31:11 32:8,21 40:25 41:9
50:19 reflects 5:5 41:22 33:4 36:9 40:6 44:20 45:3,4,7
revealed 4:17 45:22 46:4 Scialabba 26:15
18:4 remainder 13:7 reward 45:17 43:11 50:10,11 35:10
remaining 48:19 rewarded 32:17 run 15:24 46:20 search 40:16
remand 12:8 RICO 24:9 runner 35:24 second 14:4
4:20 26:12 27:17 32:10,11,13 section 3:23
23:4 19:23 robber 6:16 runs 5:25 selected 40:4
50:17 require 30:7 10:3 41:14 selling 8:23
requirement 10:1 S 2:1 3:1 send 13:1
24:7,10 requirements 7:10,19 9:1 salary 4:5 20:5,8 9:15 14:17
33:13 22:25 41:15 22:13 18:2 20:3
50:14 requires 29:18 Robert 18:6 sale 43:19 46:25 50:6
42:21 47:16,23 48:14 sure 17:20 21:12 24:10,21 25:25
41:19 42:5 statutes 4:23 survive 5:8 6:9 29:1,5,22
43:18 45:13,15 5:16 24:9 31:19 34:4,19
sorry 9:9,10 statute's 21:14 T 35:5,7,23
28:8 sort 4:25 3:21 28:18 tail 47:17,18 40:13 41:20,23
31:7 sorts 33:24 37:3 43:11 take 9:25 15:2 43:8 44:10,12
48:24 source 4:3 7:15 48:5 49:3 23:17 32:8 45:2,4,8,20
7:21 36:24 steal 22:17 37:11 43:25 46:22 47:4,22
7:7,10,16 22:6 16:18 20:24 22:21 42:2
Souter's 8:11 28:15 32:4 talking 13:8 12:3 15:9
12:1,8 31:8,21 34:9 49:25 tavern 16:9 49:21
13:1 44:14 Straighten 16:5 tell 6:13 three 13:25
23:3 spend 41:15 strange 5:1 teller 6:16 14:11 15:15
stage 41:1 23:15 term 3:11 9:4 time 25:3 40:5
States 1:1,3,13 50:25 Thank 25:4,5,9 ton 36:11
35:21 statute 3:11,12 32:1 36:16 theoretically 43:11
3:16,20,23 4:1 46:24 11:1 transaction 7:14
42:5 4:7,11,17 5:17 suggested 25:11 theory 6:24 7:1 7:14,19,20
5:18 6:18 7:6 25:15,18 26:15 12:4,5 10:15 16:15
48:12 16:21 18:2,13 suggesting 36:12 36:21,23 45:5
46:24 20:12 21:9,12 suggestion think 4:19,19 49:9,16
50:14 37:2 44:13,14 38:19 40:1 32:5 34:23 06-1005 1:5 3:4
unprofitable 29:2 37:8,8 winning 20:19 1
unwilling 34:18 warehouses work 6:25 21:14
19:11 uses 20:18 46:6 1:17 worlds 27:10 2001 14:21
26:1 wasn't 11:16 worried 39:4 18:25
V 39:16 49:15,16 worry 15:22 2007 1:10
25:6,7,9,25 47:14 9:18 10:7 49:16
31:2,19 3
9:25 27:10 29:4 written 48:15
33:10 3 1:10 2:4 40:9
24:11 32:10 42:17 wrong 12:9
34:4,17 30 17:1,11,15
32:8 50:4
X 31-day 17:15
38:8 8:17 9:7,11 x 1:2,8 4
50:8 42:3,5,12 43:8 49:23 year 37:17 40:7 5
16:25
13:22,25 45:12 46:9 1:10 years 24:11 36:5
6:17
47:22 48:17 week 32:11,11 40:10 46:19
19:3,5,9 vastly 18:15 36:2 40:3,3,3 6
25:21 versus 3:4 $
28:1 victim 46:1 $1,000 6:17
38:16 view 35:3,5 $10,000 31:14
46:11,16 violate 28:23 $100 10:4,5 8
50:5 violating 5:19 $100,000 46:6 8 42:4
21:12
30:8
6:18 42:11 $2,000 17:1
42:16
13:6 $50,000 46:1,6
37:15 W 41:15
22:11 wagging 47:17 42:2
11:22 17:5
31:8,21 waitresses 35:15 $9,000 22:24
want 4:21 11:13 19:23 25:16
22:16 0
