IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
DON ROPER, :
SUPERINTENDENT, POTOSI :
CORRECTIONAL CENTER, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-313
WILLIAM WEAVER. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 21, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ANDREA K. SPILLARS, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,
Jefferson City, Mo.; on behalf of Petitioner.
JOHN H. BLUME, ESQ., Ithaca, N.Y.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ANDREA K. SPILLARS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN H. BLUME, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ANDREA K. SPILLARS, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioner 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
[10:02 a.m.]
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
today in Case 06-313, Roper versus Weaver.
Ms. Spillars.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREA K. SPILLARS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. SPILLARS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
While this Court has laid out a framework
for reviewing prosecutors' closing arguments, the
fairness standard established in Donnelly and Darden is
by its nature a very general standard. Under this
Court's interpretation of AEDPA, the State court should
therefore be provided more leeway in reaching outcomes.
Nevertheless, the Eighth Circuit afforded no deference
to the Missouri Supreme Court's decision. Instead, its
improperly substituted its own evaluation for the
comments, looking at each of them in isolation and
without considering the totality of the proceedings.
That decision was wrong not only because the
court of appeals failed to properly afford deference to
the State court, but because when viewed within the
entire proceedings the prosecutor's closing arguments
did not deprive the Respondent of a fair trial.
Applying AEDPA correctly, the Missouri
Supreme Court decision was well within reason given,
one, the nonspecific standard of fundamental fairness
and the fact that this Court has never applied that
standard to a penalty phase closing argument; and, two,
because, considering the record in the entire
proceedings of this case, the Respondent was not
deprived of fundamental fairness.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we didn't --
haven't applied it to a penalty phase closing argument,
but we've certainly applied the general standard to the
penalty phase.
MS. SPILLARS: That's correct, Your Honor.
And it's certainly is not our argument that it would not
apply to the penalty phase. However, there simply may
be other considerations, because the fundamental
fairness standard essentially answers the question, did
the jury base their verdict on the evidence or did they
base it improperly on the prosecutor's comments.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask one sort of
preliminary question. Supposing the prosecutor
misstated the law in his closing argument. Would that
be reviewable in this Court under AEDPA?
MS. SPILLARS: I think it certainly could
be. In Brown versus Payton there was certainly a
concern about the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you think his argument
here contained any misstatements of the law?
MS. SPILLARS: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You don't.
MS. SPILLARS: To help answer the question,
though, in that context, Donnelly and Darden set down
some general considerations that, while not exclusive,
help provide the post and beams of the fundamental
fairness standard. So even assuming that all of the
statements were improper, those considerations when
applied to this case show that the trial was not
rendered unfair because of the prosecutor's argument.
First, none of the comments misstated the evidence nor
did they misstate the law.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, just on your
assumption, to make your hypothetical clear, you, you
want us to assume that three or four times at least he
violated a constitutional standard?
MS. SPILLARS: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just want to know what
arguendo assumption you are making.
MS. SPILLARS: The assumption is that under
the first tier in Donnelly and Darden that the
statements were improper in the sense that within the
context of the multi-factor kind of considerations,
whether or not they were improper, because obviously --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, they'd be improper
because they -- they were based on an emotional appeal
that's improper?
MS. SPILLARS: It could be improper in the
sense that it was a misstatement of evidence. I don't
know that impropriety would include necessarily
emotional appeal. I mean, the Constitution does not
require a trial devoid of emotion. However, impropriety
under Donnelly and Darden was the first tier of the
multi-tier kind of Fundamental fairness test. So even
assuming that that first tier, that the statements were
improper, they still did not rise to the level of
fundamental unfairness.
Secondly, none of the individual comments
implicated the defendant's rights under the Fifth or
Sixth Amendment, nor were they of the very specific kind
of comments that this Court has found to violate the
Eighth Amendment under Caldwell.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Don't you think the
argument based on the General Patton analogy told the
jurors they had a duty to do what he suggested?
MS. SPILLARS: No, Your Honor. I would
disagree.
JUSTICE STEVENS: What is the relevance of
that argument otherwise?
MS. SPILLARS: I would not -- it was not
particularly relevant. It was probably an inartful
attempt to imply or tell the jury that it was a
difficult decision that they had ahead of them, one that
they might --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you think if he said in
so many words, you have a duty to return the death
penalty, that would have been a misstatement of the law?
MS. SPILLARS: Yes, a duty to return the
death penalty, which certainly is a misstatement of the
law.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And you don't think this
could be so interpreted? You don't think you could
interpret that, that passage, that way?
MS. SPILLARS: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That passage was in the
context of other statements in which I think it's fair
to say that he analogized the role of the juror to the
role of a soldier who has to have the courage and the
duty to kill.
MS. SPILLARS: I think a reasonable
interpretation of those statements could be that the
duty was to make the decision whether or not to impose
the death penalty.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait. Why is it improper
for, for the prosecution to argue that, given the facts
of this case, given the aggravating factors and the lack
of mitigating factors, the brutality of the crime, the
only sensible decision for you ladies and gentlemen of
the jury is the death penalty? That's an improper
argument? Doesn't that amount to saying you have a duty
to come back with the death penalty? Why can't the
prosecution argue that?
MS. SPILLARS: It's certainly not improper
to make statements based on inferences from the
evidence.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, do you think the
Patton argument has anything to do with the evidence? I
mean, the Patton argument -- correct me if I'm wrong,
but I thought the argument that referred to General
Patton was an argument that, number one, talked about
his addressing the troops before battle. And he was
telling the troops that unfortunately it is sometimes
their duty to kill. And he said: Go out there and do
your duty, which I assume any reasonable listener would
say, go out there and kill.
If a prosecutor, as in this case, tells that
story and uses that analogy, it seems to me that the
argument is not an argument based on evidence, but an
argument based upon the situation, the situation of the
jurors vis a vis a capital defendant.
And I would suppose that the reasonable
inference from the argument is that they have a duty to
go out there to kill, to impose the death penalty. That
does not sound to me like an argument based upon the
evidence specific to this defendant and specific to this
case.
Now, am I wrong?
MS. SPILLARS: No, Your Honor. It certainly
was not a statement on the evidence in sense of was it a
discussion of the facts in the case. However, based on
the totality of the entire proceedings, it's clear that
that statement did not render the entire trial unfair
because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand your
concession. Surely, the prosecutor was not telling this
jury that in all capital cases you have to come in with
a death verdict. Surely, although he didn't explicitly
mention the evidence, the underlying premise of his
argument was sometimes when you have a case this bad,
you have to do your duty. Nobody likes to kill, but
just as soldiers sometimes have to do that if that's
their duty, so also jurors, if you really believe that
the evidence is so one-sided in favor of the penalty
that the State is asking for, it's your duty to bring
the death verdict. I don't see anything wrong with
that.
MS. SPILLARS: And Your Honor, to the extent
that I would certainly agree that those arguments based
on the strength of the case were not necessarily --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I suppose your concession
about the duty is based on Chief Justice Stone's opinion
in Viereck, isn't it?
MS. SPILLARS: Well, in the sense that
Viereck was not directly --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Which did involve the very
word "duty."
MS. SPILLARS: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Chief justice Stone's
opinion in Viereck talked about telling the jury that
they have a duty and condemned that. That's probably
why you made the concession, I think.
MS. SPILLARS: I think the concession is
important to get beyond the statements in isolation,
because --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not just in
isolation. Didn't this prosecutor constantly say this
case is not about Weaver, this case is larger than
Weaver. I think several times in the closing the jurors
were told: Think big, think the large picture, don't
think about this individual.
MS. SPILLARS: Yes. However, the jury was
also told that it was their discretion to spare his life
at appendix 275.
JUSTICE BREYER: It is -- I agree with you,
I agree with you that we should look at the whole
picture. When I look at the whole picture -- I've
actually got a little chart that my law clerk prepared.
And what he did, he went through this and looked at a
case called Newlon and it was the same prosecutor. And
the prosecutor was told in that case just what he
shouldn't do. And now if we look what he did in this
case and look what he did in that case and look at the
law, the whole thing, not just little bits, it looks
like he did an awful lot of what he wasn't supposed to
do.
You're not supposed to give an argument that
vouches as the U.S. attorney that I think that this is
what you should do. So in Newlon he says: I'm talking
to you as prosecuting attorney of the county, the top
law enforcement officer. And here he says: I'm the top
law enforcement officer and I decide in which cases we
have the death penalty and not. Worse than Newlon, I
would say.
Then what you're not supposed to do is
you're not supposed to tell them they're like soldiers.
I mean, there's Supreme Court cases that say, don't tell
them you're like a soldier doing duty. At least that's
what all these prosecutors -- a case called Byron versus
the United States. So in Newlon what he says is: I
want to impress on you, this is a war and it's
justifiable to kill in war. Here he says: As in the
movie "Patton" and in the movie George Patton is talking
to his troops because they're going out in battle like
the soldiers. And then he says: And when you're a
soldier, you know what to do when you put your hand in a
pile of goo that a moment before was your best friend's
face; you'll know what to do; and last July this
defendant's face was a pile of goo.
Okay, there we are. I mean, that sounds
pretty emotional. It sounds like a soldier does his
duty and you're doing it.
And then another thing you're not supposed
to do is you're not supposed to tell them it's their
duty to the community. And this is just filled with
instances where you hardly even know that there's a
person called Weaver because he says: What you have to
do here is send a message to the drug lords, send a
message --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Who said he was not
supposed to do these things?
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there's a brief --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, counsel.
Maybe, counsel, if you could answer that question?
MS. SPILLARS: In Newlon, Your Honor, it was
a due process case which the same prosecutor tried, and
it was an Eighth Circuit case. And in that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And is that the law here?
MS. SPILLARS: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's not? Why did they
file -- is this brief wrong, then, the brief of the
former prosecutors giving the propositions that I just
stated and have the Supreme Court case next to each one?
Are they wrong, those prosecutors?
MS. SPILLARS: To the extent that Newlon
sets out those arguments, no, that's not incorrect.
Those arguments were made in Newlon. However, for two
reasons Newlon is distinguishable. In this case there
were curative instructions given to the jury. In Newlon
there were no objections made. So in this case, when
the prosecutor made the statement, for example, that,
I'm the top law enforcement officer, there was an
objection and there was a curative instruction. So it
was not --
JUSTICE BREYER: Was there with the Patton
and the goo?
MS. SPILLARS: There was not an objection --
there was an objection to the Patton, but it was
overruled.
JUSTICE BREYER: Was there a curative
instruction?
MS. SPILLARS: No, there was not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I'm looking
at the quote, the statement, the reference to Patton,
and I have to say I don't read it as imposing a duty.
It says what the prosecutor says is that sometimes
you've got to kill and sometimes you've got to risk
death because it's right. His point is that at some
point, at some times, you have to impose death because
it's right, not because it's your duty as a soldier.
Now, where is the reference to you have this
duty as a soldier in the prosecutor's statements?
MS. SPILLARS: There is none, Your Honor.
And a reasonable interpretation of that comment is that
he was imparting to the jury the duty to make the
decision, not necessarily to impose the death penalty.
JUSTICE BREYER: In Viereck the words were:
"This is war, harsh, cruel, murderous war." And the
prosecutor went on to analogize the jury's duties to the
duties of soldiers and he said: Do your duty. Do you
think that's a lot different than this case?
MS. SPILLARS: Well, I would distinguish
Viereck on two grounds. One, it was not directly a due
process case as this case is raised, because it was
raised under this Court's supervisory powers. Secondly,
in this case there was -- out of the eight separate
comments that the Eighth Circuit found improper, only
three of them were actually objected to, two of which
were sustained and curative instructions were given.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you just -- that's a
bit inconsistent with your point that Newlon is
distinguishable because there were no objections at all
and that was the reason for the court saying this goes
too far to the prosecutor. But now you say when there
are objections --
MS. SPILLARS: In Newlon the jury was never
told to disregard the statements. In our case the jury
was told to disregard the statements.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Certain statements.
There are were many objections made here that were
overruled.
MS. SPILLARS: Correct. There were 12
objections made total. Interestingly, though, the
defense attorney did not raise objections to the
majority of the comments that the Eighth Circuit found
improper. Now, while that's not dispositive, I think
that the defense attorney is certainly in the best
position to judge whether or not a comment prejudices
his client.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: To that extent the two
cases were the same because in Newlon there were no
objections either.
MS. SPILLARS: No objections at all. There
were no objections at all. In our case there were 12
objections, so clearly the defense attorney was on the
mark and was listening for prejudicial comments from the
prosecutor. Of the eight comments that the Eighth
Circuit found objectionable in this case, only three of
them were objected to.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you think --
MR. SPILLARS: So assuming that the defense
attorney was -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There were two cases
cited as involving the same prosecutor? Was it Shurn
also?
MS. SPILLARS: Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that there was a
significant overlap in the three charges in the three
cases. The prosecutor had been told in two of them, you
went too far. In this one, just in terms of what the
prosecutor said in the closing argument, is this less
offensive or would you say they're all on a par?
MS. SPILLARS: I would actually -- if you
compare the three arguments side by side, the
prosecutor's statements were tempered in this case. The
decision -- when he tried this case, it was
approximately five weeks after the district court in
Newlon had come down with the decision.
And there are statements that he made in
Newlon and Shurn that were not in this case. For
example, in Newlon he said this is the worst case ever
and in Shurn he said the same thing. He did he not say
that in this case. So I think from -- if you do a side
by side comparison, his statements were actually
tempered.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you tell us -- as
you know, AEDPA has the decisions of settled precedents
of the Supreme Court and there's the Supreme Court
standard, a very general standard that we can get from
Darden and Donnelly, although we didn't reverse there.
I take it that the counsel for the
Respondent is going to say: Well, this is a Federal
standard, but the Eighth Circuit is entitled to apply
the specificity and the application that it's given to
this, so the Eighth Circuit's entitled to rely on its
cases in reversing.
Do you agree with that?
MS. SPILLARS: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I assume that's what
they're going to tell us.
MS. SPILLARS: No, Your Honor, I would not
agree.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why.
MS. SPILLARS: Clearly, it's not established
law by this Court, and this Court has not specifically
outlined the kind of post and beam that would result in
a reversal in a penalty phase Closing argument.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It says that in the text,
doesn't it, "clearly established by the Supreme Court"?
Is that not in the text of the statute?
MS. SPILLARS: Correct, yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: So those things that are
improper for a prosecutor to make in summing up in the
guilt phase, are they then proper to say, exactly those
things, in a sentencing phase with capital -- with --
you know, capital sentencing?
MS. SPILLARS: Is it the same, the same
arguments in the --
JUSTICE BREYER: There are a number of cases
in this Court that say what a prosecutor can't say,
guilt phase. All of them happen to be guilt phase, I
guess. You can't, you know, vouch. You can't use too
much emotion. You have to focus on what the defendant
did, not on what somebody else did. I mean, there are a
number of things.
Now, do those -- is it fair or not fair to
say that those precedents apply in the capital
sentencing phase, too?
MS. SPILLARS: I think it is fair to say
that. But it is also fair to say that there may be
other considerations that apply in the penalty phase
that don't necessarily apply in the guilt phase.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you this
question about your position: We are trying to find
cases that clearly establish law by decisions of this
Court. Do you include in that group of cases, cases
such as Berger against the United States, and Viereck
against the United States, which were direct review of
Federal cases in which they say there was a denial of
the fair trial, but they're not setting aside State
cases?
Would it be proper for the Court of Appeals
to rely on those cases?
MS. SPILLARS: No. And this is why.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Even though those cases
say in so many words it deprives you of a fair trial.
MS. SPILLARS: No. Because of the very
specific nature of the supervisory powers in those
cases, I don't believe that in the larger context, the
final standards, that we can say that those directly
apply.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If those direct
Federal cases were interpreting the constitutional
provisions directly, they would count as established
law?
MS. SPILLARS: Certainly, yes, Your Honor.
There was also no mechanism in this case for
the jury to apply any of the improper remarks to their
deliberations because they were properly instructed.
Instructions which we presume that they followed. In
this case, the court read the instructions to the jury
before closing arguments, and a copy was also given to
the jury to deliberate with.
Four of those instructions, numbers 21, 28,
26, and 27, told the jury in various forms that it was
their duty, and theirs alone, to render a verdict. The
jury was also told in instructions 23, 24, and 26 that
it was -- that their decision must be within the
confines of the evidence.
And thirdly, within the specific process
laid out for finding ways -- mitigating and aggravating
circumstances. And finally, the last instruction that
the jury heard before closing arguments was that closing
arguments were not evidence.
It is counterintuitive to assume that the
jury disregarded those instructions as a whole and
instead improperly relied on the prosecutor's closing
argument when they declined to find the one aggravating
circumstance that the prosecutor spoke most about.
At appendix 285 is the part of the closing
argument where the prosecutor discussed the aggravating
circumstances. He argued to the jury that all four
applied, but spent most time speaking about number one,
which was that he had killed for money.
However, the jury did not find aggravator
number 1. So the very aggravator that the prosecutor
argued most about to the jury, they did not find.
It's more reasonable to conclude that the
jury made its decision based on the strength of the
evidence and the strong evidence in support of the death
penalty.
Having rejected the misidentification
defense, the jury necessarily found that the respondent
was the passenger who had returned to the woods to shoot
the victim several more times.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I go back to my
question? Because there's a legal question here about
what law we can look to under AEDPA. And actually, of
course, it is a question of whether AEDPA applies, I
suppose. Because actually, wasn't this habeas petition
filed two days before AEDPA was -- there's a footnote in
the red brief that says -- raises that question.
MS. SPILLARS: There was a habeas petition
filed prior to AEDPA, but it was dismissed and he did
not appeal from that. This was filed after AEDPA.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was a slip on the
District Court's part, wasn't it? I mean, that original
petition that was dismissed because he had filed a cert
petition to this Court should not have been dismissed,
it should have been held, in which case the petition
would have been timely and would not have been trumped
by an AEDPA variant.
MS. SPILLARS: However, Your Honor, he did
not appeal from that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, didn't he seek a
COA?
MS. SPILLARS: Yes, he did. However, he did
not appeal --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: This is a pro se prisoner.
He gets his -- all the claims are exhausted, it's
dismissed. And he seeks a COA on that point.
MS. SPILLARS: However, the parties have --
the respondent has not asserted that argument, that
AEDPA does not apply in this case. And for good reason,
because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Certainly didn't say it in
the brief in opposition. And we might not well have
taken the case had that point been raised in the BIL.
MS. SPILLARS: That's correct, Your Honor.
Finally, given the overwhelming evidence --
it supported a finding that the respondent had carried
out an execution style murder for the purpose of
silencing a witness. I'll preserve --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question
before you sit down? In the Viereck opinion, Chief
Justice Stone reversed in that case. And one of the
reasons was the prosecutor indulged in an appeal wholly
irrelevant to any facts or issues in the case, the
purpose and effect of which could only have been to
arouse passion and prejudice. That's part of our
Federal law. Is that law applicable in this case, do
you think?
MS. SPILLARS: Not directly, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, it is either
directly -- it's either yes or no.
MS. SPILLARS: I think certainly this Court
can use --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That rule can be ignored
by State prosecutors?
MS. SPILLARS: Certainly not ignored, Your
Honor. But in the context of fundamental fairness, as
to whether or not that case applies, I would argue that
it does not directly apply.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You have a much more
limited point, as I understand it. Your more limited
point is simply that this is not clearly established law
pronounced by the Supreme Court.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, it is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: In this area of
constitutional violation.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, the question, I
suppose, is whether that is a constitutional rule. It
is established by the Supreme Court of the United
States, an opinion written by Chief Justice Stone a good
many years ago. But you're argument is it is not
applicable to State prosecutors, as I understand it.
MS. SPILLARS: Not necessarily not
applicable to State prosecutors. However, in the
context of fundamental fairness, does it establish a
clear -- a rule in the sense of those kinds of
statements will render a trial fundamentally --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why would it be applicable
to State prosecutors if it is not a rule. I don't
understand that. Is it applicable to a State prosecutor
or not? If a state prosecutor asked you for your
advice, is this opinion applicable. And you tell him
yes or no.
MS. SPILLARS: Certainly, it is something
that State prosecutors should follow in the sense of
what they should say and what they should not say.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But they must follow
because it's the law, right?
MS. SPILLARS: Under the -- it is not the
law in the sense of fundamental fairness. It is
certainly an indication of what --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, where did Chief
Justice Stone get it from?
MS. SPILLARS: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Where did Chief Justice
Stone get it from? Just because of our supervisory
power? I mean, if it's just Federal supervisory power,
then I think you could tell the counsel, he doesn't have
to follow it, it's due process.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't have it both
ways, counsel. I mean, you're really losing me here.
Either it is our supervisory power and therefore the
States don't have to follow it, or it is more than our
supervisory power and the States do have to follow it.
I don't know that there's any way to straddle that.
MS. SPILLARS: Well, I would argue that in
those cases, it is a supervisory power case. And so to
that extent, it's not applicable to this particular
case.
I'll reserve.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Blume?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN H. BLUME
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MR. BLUME: Mr. Chief Justice, may it please
the Court:
As the former prosecutor's brief makes
clear, George "Buzz" Westfall's penalty phase closing
argument in Mr. Weaver's case contained a number of
improper and mutually reinforcing statements which
exploited the authority of his office, analogized the
jury's duties to that of soldiers in war time, injected
extraneous matters into the proceedings, and appealed to
the jurors' passions and prejudice.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I think they
overstated the significance of Viereck. Isn't Viereck
-- does Viereck stand, do you think, for a per se rule
that a prosecutor in a closing argument may never
mention the word soldier? Isn't that a much more
limited -- much more limited holding?
This was a prosecution during World War II
of individuals for failing to register as agents of Nazi
Germany, and the prosecutor said in the guilt phase --
and it wasn't a capital case obviously, in the guilt
phase of closing argument, that just as our soldiers who
are fighting the Japanese on the Bataan Peninsula are
doing their duty for the country, you have a duty to
return a guilty verdict against these individuals.
Now, isn't that very different from saying
that in a capital -- at the capital phase of the trial,
you have a duty to consider something that's very
unpleasant, and it's unpleasant in the same way that
what soldiers have to do in war time is different?
Isn't that very different?
MR. BLUME: I think the historical context
is different, but this was set up in this case by
informing the jurors that we were involved in a war, in
a war on drugs in society. And then he uses the same
story, analogizing jurors' responsibilities to that of
soldiers in a war. I think it is also important to put
that comment in the context in which it occurred. Not
only in the broader context and the repeated -- the
prosecutor repeatedly leveraging the power of his office
behind this, but this came right on the heels of him
saying, I'm the top law enforcement officer in this
county. I decide in which cases we seek the death
penalty.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That was objected to
and the objection was sustained, correct?
MR. BLUME: It was objected to, and the
objection was sustained. That doesn't mean that
comment --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And a curative instruction
given.
MR. BLUME: I agree with that. But that
doesn't mean it's irrelevant for the due process
totality of circumstances analysis. And then he
proceeds from there directly in to the Patton analogy,
and I think if you read that analogy in context, he is
telling them you're soldiers in a war, you have a duty
to kill, I'm like Patton, I'm telling you it's your duty
to kill, go kill.
If you read that logically --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which in that case,
AEDPA says we look to clearly established law by our
U.S. Supreme Court decisions. Which is the clearest
U.S. Supreme Court decision that was violated here?
MR. BLUME: The decision that was violated
was the rule of Darden, Donnelly, and Romano, which is
that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, pick which one
do you think is the most directly applicable.
MR. BLUME: Well, I think Darden established
the rule. This Court applied it to the penalty phase in
Romano, and thus the Darden rule that if a prosecutor's
comments, the totality --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not Romano.
Romano was an introduction of evidence case, right?
MR. BLUME: Yes, but logically, if you have
established a rule for closing arguments, you
established it, you then say it is applicable to the
penalty phase for the admission of evidence, it would be
completely illogical to say it didn't govern penalty
phase closing arguments.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My point is simply
the level of generality at which the guiding principles
were articulated, which helps when you're applying it,
but in determining -- it is the point Judge Bowman in
dissent that when you don't have a case that's close,
that you have more leeway in terms of the deference to
the Court, because it's not a clearly established
precedent of the Supreme Court.
Yes, there are the Jenner cases that
establish the general principles, but the question is
how clearly those were contravened before you can say it
violated clearly established law.
MR. BLUME: That is what this Court's
decisions say, Chief Justice Roberts. I think I want to
make clear that we have two different positions on that.
The first is that any State court decision finding this
argument in its totality based on what happened and
based on the weight of the evidence in this case that
said that didn't render the proceedings fundamentally
unfair would be an unreasonable application of Darden
and Donnelly.
But in addition to that, the Missouri
Supreme Court in this case said the decision was
unreasonable because it failed to consider significant
portions of Mr. Weaver's challenge to this argument. It
did the analysis under a State law abuse of discretion
standard, and it refused to consider or failed to
consider several components of his claim.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you mean, how do
you it failed to consider? I mean, is there an
obligation to respond to every single point that's made?
MR. BLUME: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did they refuse to accept
argument on those points?
MR. BLUME: No. But they -- on the first
point, did they refuse to -- did they fail to consider a
number of the challenges like the Patton analogy, that's
clear. He raised that in his brief. He said this was
something I'm complaining about. They did not consider
it. He raised the point about --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If they did consider it,
you mean they did not respond to that argument in their
opinion.
MR. BLUME: They did not refer to it in
their opinion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't know for sure
that they didn't consider it. I mean, it may be
argument to them. How could they not have considered
it? They must have not considered it important, but
that's a different --
MR. BLUME: He also raised the point about
this is bigger than William Weaver. And that was
improper. And when the State court cited what he said,
they chose to ellipses that out, and didn't even put in
--
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why is that improper?
Is it improper at the penalty phase for a prosecutor to
refer to the concept of deterrence, which by definition
is bigger than the individual whose sentence is being
considered?
MR. BLUME: I don't think this can properly
be considered a deterrence argument. When you say over
and over, this is far more important than William
Weaver, this goes way beyond William Weaver, this is
bigger than William Weaver, this doesn't just pertain to
William Weaver, then you add that in with the number of
comments about you need to give this person the death
penalty --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, could a prosecutor
say, one of the factors you must take into account when
you begin to deliberate is the deterrent purpose of the
death penalty? Deterrence is one of the reasons we have
the death penalty.
MR. BLUME: Uh-huh.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: To teach us. Can he say
that?
MR. BLUME: I think he could say that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So then now we have the
principle that you can talk about deterrence. Now it is
just the way in which he talked about deterrence?
MR. BLUME: No, my point is I don't believe
this is really a deterrence argument. Deterrence is not
a substitute for moral culpability. We allow the
deterrent function of the death penalty as a
justification for it, but you couldn't give the death
penalty to somebody who didn't deserve it under the
State's scheme, in order to further deterrence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: As I recall, he didn't just
say it is bigger than Weaver. He went on to discuss,
you know, the drug gangs. And he says, they're not
going to be affected by the threat of going to prison.
They will be affected by the threat of dying.
It seemed to me he tied it very, very
closely into deterrence. And if you say that deterrence
is okay for him to refer to, I don't know how there's
anything left to your argument about his saying it's
bigger than Weaver.
MR. BLUME: I think the import of this
argument is you should give the person the death penalty
even if you're not sure he deserves it in order to
further the deterrent function of the death penalty.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but you're -- you're
saying look, he can make a general statement that we
have a death penalty in part for its deterrent function,
but he cannot make the argument that you ought to apply
the death penalty in this case solely for deterrent
reasons, i.e., reasons unanchored in the culpability of
this particular defendant.
MR. BLUME: That's correct. Not because,
what this statement did. Especially --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where? Where? Where?
Where? Where does it say that? Where does it say never
mind the facts? Let's, let's give this guy the death
penalty as a Napoleon said, "Por encourage les autres."
You know, he said it didn't matter which, whether the
general was guilty of, of cowardice or not; it would
help to encourage the others to execute him. Where is
there anything like that argument here? I don't see it.
MR. BLUME: I think that us the logical
inference from the six or seven times he says -- in
variety of -- he says this is bigger than William
Weaver. The one thing you've got to understand is this
is far more important than William Weaver; this is, goes
way beyond William Weaver; this does not pertain just to
William Weaver. He says that on six or eight occasions.
And I think you could interpret that -- the logical
interpretation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you let a person who is
as guilty as William Weaver go, you're affecting not
just William Weaver, you're affecting the whole war on
drugs, you're affecting the -- what's wrong with that?
I -- I fail to see any indication here that
he's telling the jury never mind the facts. Never mind
how -- you know -- how horrible you think the crime was.
Never mind all of the instructions that the judge gives
you about aggravating factors and mitigating factors.
Forget all of that. Kill William Weaver because it's
bigger than him.
I -- I just don't -- I just don't see the
argument.
MR. BLUME: Of course, he does actually say
kill him now at another point in there. But I think if
you take those comments, you also look at those in the
context of where he goes on and on about the
consequences; you need to send a message to the drug
dealers, that's a huge theme --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What do you think, go on
and on -- suppose he'd mentioned deterrence six times?
MR. BLUME: I think as long as it is a
blanket sort of statement, that one purpose of the death
penalty is deterrence, that would probably be consistent
with this Court's decisions.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
MR. BLUME: That's not what is happening
here, Justice Kennedy, especially when it is tied in to
that, to send a message and then he also goes on to talk
about the consequences. If you don't sentence this
person to death, then the animals will reign in the
jungle and we can't have that in a civilized society and
there's no point in having jurors, the dope peddlers
prevail. You put all that together, he is telling these
people as the prosecutor in this county. If you don't
give this person the death penalty there will be all
these adverse social consequences.
And you wrap all this up; there is no
conscientious prosecute who could possibly believe that
these statements were proper. No.
This argument is an outlier; it is beyond
the bounds; it contains essentially improper comments in
virtually every category that this Court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So Judge -- Judge
Bowman would be an unreasonable prosecutor? He
dissented; he thought these were not unreasonable on the
basis of on clearly established law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought Judge Bowman
said were it not for AEDPA this case might come out --
in his view this case might have come out differently.
MR. BLUME: Judge Bowman --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The standard is
unreasonable in light of clearly established law.
MR. BLUME: Judge Bowman did say that. But
I believe the essence of his dissent was that, I think
that he made the mistake which the Petitioners made in
the cert petition, and he thought that there was no
clearly established Federal law. A point which is
essentially conceded at this point in the proceedings.
I wanted to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well no, he
specifically recognized there was nothing on all fours
and that there these other generally applicable
decisions and he thought the state courts had broad -- a
broader range when there was no decision on all fours.
MR. BLUME: Well, if I'm -- I'm sorry --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm reading at the
bottom of page 820 in the petition appendix.
MR. BLUME: Well, if I'm wrong about that,
I'm wrong. But even -- I don't think it is also under
Justice O'Connor's opinion in williams versus Taylor,
you don't have to, this doesn't works at the level of
saying well, any one judge is unreasonable. The point
is, it's an objective standard, not is this judge, you
know, somehow out of touch here?
And I think -- so -- I wanted to make one
point before I forge about it, to correct one thing that
Petitioner said. Mr. Weaver filed this prior to the
act. It was dismissed. He did request counsel and a
COA. He did appeal this in the Eighth Circuit in his
first appeal.
He appealed the improper dismissal of his
petition. The district court initially granted the writ
on Batson grounds. He appealed the fact that it should
be -- his case should not be subject to the act --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You have this only in a
footnote in your reply brief. It wasn't raised in the
BIO.
MR. BLUME: It was not raised in the BIO. I
did not represent Mr. Weaver at that time. But I
thought it was my obligation as an officer of the court
to raise this at the earliest possible opportunity.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I ask you, where -- one
of the passages that I thought went a little far where
is he says to the jury, the one thing you've have got to
into your head; this is far more important than William
Weaver. This case goes far beyond William Weaver. This
touches all the dope peddlers and the murderers in the
world. That's the message you have to send. It just
doesn't pertain to William Weaver. It pertains to all
of us, the community. The message -- there are street,
et cetera.
Okay. Now. That struck me, as you argue
this is rather extreme. Its seems to be removing the
attention of the jury from William Weaver and saying you
have a duty to send this man for other reasons. Now --
to execute him.
But where do I find in the U.S. reports the
case or statement that then says this is the kind of
argument the prosecutor cannot make?
MR. BLUME: Okay. Let me -- I want to back
up, and I want to take on the premise of the question.
Which may be a mistake, but I think in determining, the
first part of the Donnelly/Darden standard is you look
at what the prosecutor argued and whether it was
improper.
I don't believe you have to have a United
States Supreme Court case directly on point for
everything the prosecutor said on that. There are
decisions from this Court on a number of things he said.
There are also other touchstones, for example, the
standards on criminal justice which regulate what
prosecutors can say.
Then the way I understand this clearly
established Federal law to work, is you take what the
prosecutor said, you examine that in light of what
happened, what defense counsel did, what the trial judge
did, and the weight of the overall evidence.
And if you believe that the prosecutor's
arguments rendered the proceedings fundamentally unfair,
then there's a violation of the due process clause. I
don't think I have -- you have to show that there's some
Supreme Court case directly on point going to each
particular comment.
JUSTICE BREYER: You were talking --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even -- even the Supreme
Court cases going to the other points, they didn't --
did any of them involve a separate penalty phase? They
were all just in the guilt, guilt phase of a non-capital
case, weren't they?
MR. BLUME: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So that, so that when the
prosecutor was urging particular action, he was urging
the jury to find a person guilty. He was not just
urging them what penalty is better or worse. He was
saying for these reasons you should find the individual
guilty.
That's quite different it seems to me from
the situation in which guilt has already been
established. The trial's done. This person is guilty,
and the only thing they're arguing about is what the
penalty ought to be. I'm not sure that you can
analogize, you know, from the one situation to the other
in determining what kind of argument is proper. Because
in the former situation when the -- if the prosecutor
says this is not just about this defendant, it's about
the whole society, he's urging the jury to find the
person guilty. I mean -- and that's crazy. You don't
find the person guilty in order to stop drug
trafficking.
But you do impose a heavier penalty in order
to do that. So I just don't, don't see the analogy from
the Supreme Court cases you have.
MR. BLUME: Well, I think that, I don't see
any reason why a principle which this Court has
repeatedly reaffirmed that a prosecutor is not supposed
to leverage his opinion and the prestige of his office
behind a particular outcome, would apply any less at the
penalty phase of a capital trial than at the guilt phase
of a capital trial.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's different. Look --
it could -- could -- would defense counsel be able to
argue during the guilt phase of the trial, in an
ordinary trial where there's no separate phase, "ladies
and gentlemen of the jury, this person has a large
family that's dependent on him; he's a miserable wretch.
You shouldn't find him guilt. Is there no mercy in your
heart?"
Would he be allowed to argue that? Of
course not. Can he argue it in a guilt phase? Of
course he can. And it seems to me in determining what
arguments the prosecution can make you have to be guided
by what arguments the defense can make.
The defense can surely come in and say
ladies and gentlemen of the jury, you're being called
upon to kill somebody. Do you realize what a -- what a
difficult, overwhelming thing that is?
And then you say the prosecution can't come
in and say ladies and gentlemen, sometimes if you do
your duty, you have to kill. This is the law here. If
you find the facts this way, that's your duty.
I -- I -- I think you're, you're taking hard
cases very much out of context by applying cases that
relate to the guilt phase, to a very special procedure
that we've set up in capital cases which is called the
guilt -- uh, the penalty phase.
MR. BLUME: Well, I disagree with that, and
to this extent. Can a lawyer in a capital case argue at
the sentencing phase of the capital trial you should not
sentence this person to death because they've had a hard
life? Yes. Of course you can. And why can you do
that? Because according to this Court's cases, that
goes directly to the individual's moral culpability and
whether they deserve the death penalty.
The problem with many of the arguments which
were made in this case is they are fundamentally
inconsistent with the individual's moral blameworthiness
and they can the jury to impose the death penalty in
order to stop larger issues, to stop crime, to protect
society.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To -- to send a
message?
MR. BLUME: To send a message. And if you
don't send a message, chaos will prevail and the animals
will reign in the jungle.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What the defense
lawyer said to the jury in his closing was if you vote
for life, you are sending a message. He said if you
vote for life, you are still doing your duty.
MR. BLUME: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How was that
message -- a different message, I guess, but he can
say send a message, but the prosecutor can't?
MR. BLUME: No. I think the important -- by
the time defense counsel said that, the prosecutor in
his opening statement had already made the send a
message statement about five times. She was trying in
that one limited instance to tackle that and say well,
okay, if you give him life that's a message, too.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So if the prosecution had
not opened the door, that would have been improper? You
overrule -- the judge said counsel, you can't argue
about sending a message for life?
MR. BLUME: I think that would have been
completely within the trial court's discretion.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You -- you think the trial
court could tell the defense counsel that the defense
counsel cannot argue to the jury, ladies and gentlemen
there is nothing more precious than life and that's what
we're asking you to decide here and we want you to
assert the values of this community that we value life?
You can't say that?
MR. BLUME: Maybe. But I think that what
she -- but what she's saying here, though, is directly
responsive. And that is also a factor which this Court
has noted in its decisions.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose that you said
explicitly, the prosecutor -- which he didn't say -- but
you're arguing basically, it is a fair, sort of an
implication, suppose he said there are a lot of drug
dealers around, and he's one of them. And this
sentencing phase isn't about just -- just isn't about
William Weaver. It is about sending a message to the
others.
And if you execute him, even if you think he
shouldn't be executed, you don't think he ever should
be, but, you see, others will think that this is a
message. So do it just to give a message. Even if you
think he never did it. No matter what you think of him,
you think he's the best person in the world. Still
execute him just to send a message.
Now would that violate the Constitution?
MR. BLUME: Of course.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Of course. What case
in the Supreme Court would you look to to show it did?
MR. BLUME: I think it would -- there you
would easily just look to this Court's Eighth Amendment
decisions which say --
JUSTICE BREYER: You don't find any one
where anybody ever had an argument like that.
MR. BLUME: Right. It wouldn't be an -- but
it would be inconsistent with the fundamental
principles --
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah. Ah. So you are saying
we should look not just to -- if we try to look for
exact, identical arguments maybe we'll get into that
problem? Of having to uphold things we all know -- or
is that right? Or what?
MR. BLUME: Well, I think, you know, at some
point, right, you can say well, you don't have a case on
point because no one has said anything so outrageous.
If a prosecutor went up and said look, ladies and
gentlemen, the judge is going to tell you about
aggravating and mitigating circumstances; forget all
that baloney, go in there, you know, put all that out of
your brain, and give him death. I don't think there
would be any question --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The question has been
switched here, Counsel. The question before us is not
whether it was wrong, even if you answer there's plenty
of Supreme Court precedent, even though none on these
particular facts, to convince me that he shouldn't have
said it.
That's not the question before us. The
question before us is whether it violates fundamental
unfairness, whether it's wrong to such an extent that it
invalidates the whole prosecution and -- and sentence.
That's quite a different question. I can
acknowledge, yeah, the prosecutor, you know, shouldn't
do it. But that doesn't lead me to the, automatically
to the conclusion that the Supreme Court jurisprudence
shows that this so violates fundamental unfairness that
the, that the verdict has to be set aside.
MR. BLUME: Well, let me tackle that
head-on. There were a number of improper comments made
in this case. Most, many of them -- a number of them
were objected to and the objection was overruled. Some
of them were not objected to. The only instructions
they got were two curative instructions on two points
and a general evidence, not arguments, instruction.
So nothing was really done in the context to
ameliorate the presence of these comments. And despite
what the Petitioner says, this was not a strong case for
death. The evidence of guilt was circumstantial and
hotly contested. Even the prosecutor in his penalty
phase acknowledged, look, he might be innocent, but kill
him anyway. The State presented no additional evidence
in aggravation of punishment. Mr. Weaver had no prior
record other than a misdemeanor conviction.
There was substantial mitigating evidence
presented regarding his character, his good deeds, and
other things he had done in the community and his
adaptability to confinement.
This was not a strong case for death.
So you take these comments, which were --
they're trying to contrast -- this argument is worse
than Newlon in most respects. It was made five weeks
after he was told that this argument rendered another
trial fundamentally unfair.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your recital was not
a complete picture of the case. This was an
assassination of a witness in a Federal drug
prosecution, with how many shots to the head?
MR. BLUME: I believe there were six.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Six. And the jury
determined unanimously beyond a reasonable doubt that
this was the guy who did it. So you do have to look at
the penalty phase in the context of those facts.
MR. BLUME: I agree. But to say that -- and
they found -- and I'm not suggesting that that's not
part of the totality of the proceedings.
But there's one significant point there that
also I think needs to be taken into account. He was a
witness, but he was also a drug dealer and involved in
the drug trade and was a straw purchaser for these Shurn
families. And in many instances --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, serve him right? I
mean, is that --
MR. BLUME: I'm not suggesting it serves him
right. I'm suggesting that whether juries impose death
often depends in part as well on the moral
blameworthiness or how they perceived the victim. This
was not like witness, an innocent witness. This was
somebody who was involved in that. And that normally
makes it more difficult for the prosecution to obtain a
death sentence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you -- what
should a prosecutor's closing -- penalty phase argument
look like? What are the sorts of things that he should
be talking about?
MR. BLUME: I think in general they stick to
the evidence. They can argue that the nature and
severity of the crime itself warrants the ultimate
punishment and focus on -- the focus of the penalty
phase is supposed to be on the individual's moral
culpability and whether they deserve the death penalty
based on what they did. This argument, most of this
argument I believe, as Justice Breyer suggested, it went
on for pages and there was no mention really in any
substance of William Weaver and what he had done.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think moral
culpability is the only factor that can be mentioned? I
thought you said earlier it was okay for the prosecutor
to refer to deterrence.
MR. BLUME: I don't think it's the only
factor, but I was responding to the question of what
should a prosecutor do and in fact what most
prosecutors do in most cases.
JUSTICE ALITO: Can a prosecutor say that
killing a witness is something that needs to be deterred
and therefore it's important, it's appropriate to impose
the death penalty here in order to send a message of
deterrence? Is that improper?
MR. BLUME: I think something probably like
that would be. But this -- again, this went way beyond
that.
The other thing that you have to look at
here is that then he goes on to say, and if you don't
give him death chaos will reign, society will fall
apart, there's no point in having a death penalty, and
the animals will reign in the jungle and you can't that
have that in a civilized society.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is part of moral
culpability that you take moral instruction from thieves
murderers on the street, as opposed to those higher
standards for which society seeks to aspire? Is that
moral culpability?
MR. BLUME: I'm sorry. I'm not sure --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it moral culpability
for you to take as an example for your behavior the
criminal population?
MR. BLUME: I still -- I'm not trying to be
thick.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're talking about moral
culpability. Is it part of your moral culpability that
you take your values, your instructions, your behavior
from criminals, as opposed to people who uphold the law
in society? Is that part of moral culpability?
MR. BLUME: It might be part of the picture
of what this person is like.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well then, isn't it
relevant what's happening on the streets, etcetera?
MR. BLUME: I don't think it's proper to say
if you don't give this person death then all these other
things which are bad for society are going to happen.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, the
defense argument was not focused on Weaver either. The
defense counsel said it was a vote for life, fight for
it. Always fight for life, always, always. The
argument by the defense wasn't -- and it's hard for me
to imagine in a penalty phase how the arguments wouldn't
extend beyond the particular individuals.
MR. BLUME: But there's beyond and there's
way beyond and there's beyond the pale. And I think if
you look at all these things that were said in this case
-- I have read hundreds of these arguments -- no
conscientious prosecutor could have thought that this
was appropriate.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do you answer the
argument, fight for life, always fight for life? How do
you answer that argument, except by saying: Ladies and
gentlemen, sometimes, sometimes it's your duty to vote
for death? How else would you answer that argument?
MR. BLUME: You could answer it that, look
at what this person did. You look at his crime. We
have the death penalty in this State. In some cases
it's appropriate. It's appropriate in this case. It's
not appropriate to say: I'm the prosecutor, I decide in
which cases we seek death.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Blume, before your
time is up, I want to ask you one other question. I'm
still troubled about whether AEDPA applies. And was it
argued in any court below? Was the question actually
ruled on after an adversarial presentation as to whether
AEDPA applies or does not apply? As I understand it, it
either does or it doesn't and it doesn't matter whether
it was argued. But was it discussed in any of the lower
court decisions?
MR. BLUME: You're talking about on the
basis that he filed before the act?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Two days before the act.
MR. BLUME: He filed before the act. The
district court dismissed and said, believing erroneously
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, I mean in this
proceeding.
MR. BLUME: It was argued in his initial
habeas. It was appealed to the Eighth Circuit, because
the Eighth Circuit initially granted the writ on Batson
grounds. So he appealed it at that point and the Eighth
Circuit said, basically with very little analysis,
determined that AEDPA applied because he had to refile
after the act and AEDPA applied to petitions filed after
the act.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And was that this habeas?
Then he filed a subsequent habeas or what?
MR. BLUME: It was the same habeas
proceeding. It was a continuation of the same. It was
then remanded back to the district court. The district
court granted the writ on this ground and then it went
up on appeal. I don't think he would have been under
any obligation to appeal it again, having sort of gotten
a ruling on that in the same habeas proceeding.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If the Eighth Circuit had
had Lawrence in front it, it would have ruled
differently? Or should it have ruled differently, in
respect to Lawrence?
MR. BLUME: I believe that -- I'm sorry, I
didn't mean to interrupt.
I believe Lawrence makes clear that the
district court made a fundamental mistake in law in
dismissing his petition and should not be --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under Lawrence the Eighth
Circuit would have been wrong?
MR. BLUME: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And if Lawrence had gone
the other way, then it also -- then it would be right.
In other words, whether AEDPA applies really is a
function of our decision in Lawrence?
MR. BLUME: Yes. Lawrence made clear what I
think should have probably been clear beforehand, that
you didn't have to seek cert to this Court in order to
exhaust a petition, but that was the basis of the
district court's ruling.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Blume.
Ms. Spillars, you have four minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREA K. SPILLARS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. SPILLARS: Thank you, Your Honor.
I would like to address two points. First,
it is not clearly established that deterrence arguments
in closing arguments are improper, and for good reason,
particularly because of the strength of this -- the
evidence in this case and the fact that the Respondent
had killed a Federal witness execution-style. To that
extent, as I understand the Respondent's argument, the
deterrence rises or falls on however the prosecutor has
prefaced his deterrence argument, if he says certain
words to mitigate the deterrence argument. However,
trials don't operate in terms of specific words that
must be pre-spoken before an argument can be valid.
Secondly, in response to Justice Kennedy's
question previously, I would advise that prosecutors
should not use some arguments, not necessarily the
deterrence argument, but not that in every instance they
must not use those arguments. This Court's supervisory
role in those kinds of cases allows this Court to turn
should's into must's for Federal prosecutors, but that
is not the case here.
Second -- thirdly, the Viereck case is in a
historical context which we don't have here, and the
Missouri Supreme Court did consider the penalty phase
arguments. At page 237 of the appendix the court
specifically said: "We have reviewed the penalty phase
arguments."
And then at page 235, the Missouri Supreme
Court distinguishes Newlon and says that they do not
rise to the level of the statements made in Newlon. So
to that extent the Missouri State court was not an
unreasonable application of this Court's precedents and
deference should afforded to that State court decision.
For that reason we would ask that this case be reversed.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
[Whereupon, at 11:00 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.]
56:12 28:16 48:11 55:23 24:22 26:14,20 11:20,22 16:1
32:1 49:18 29:8,17 37:10 33:2,16,19,25 46:22
allow 33:3 30:15 56:5 36:13 39:7 awful 11:17
allows 55:17 4:11 5:12 47:23,25 49:5 56:11
53:10
6:18,20 45:14 applies 22:6 54:22 55:6,8,9 back 8:9 22:3
40:25 apply 4:15 17:25 3:24 10:6 baloney 46:7
analysis 28:18 50:3 51:25 55:2,14,16,23 basis 36:19
17:19 43:11 50:13 argue 8:3,10 aside 19:22 battle 8:19
answer 5:6 13:6 24:9 26:7 46:25 12:11
23:6 46:12 52:1,3,5 38:25 41:20 asked 25:7 beam 18:13
36:21 52:6 42:1,2,20 44:4 asking 10:2 beams 5:9
53:9 answers 4:17 44:10 49:9 44:12 behalf 1:18,19
54:10 anybody 45:17 argued 21:14,19 aspire 50:18 2:4,7,10 3:7
appeal 6:4,9 arguendo 5:22 assert 44:13 51:3
53:18,19 argument 1:14 assume 5:18 36:11 37:2
46:6 appealed 26:24 2:2,5,8 3:3,6 8:22 18:6 21:7 39:14 40:1
appeals 3:22 5:2,13 6:22 7:2 6:13 16:18 53:25 54:2
APPEARAN... 8:18 9:1,1,2,5 5:22,23 Berger 19:19
brain 46:8 27:10,22 28:25 25:18,21 26:12 4:5,10,22 11:1
34:19 14:24 18:19 36:21,22 38:7 30:9 36:16,24 21:12 26:19
38:19 19:1 38:15 38:19 39:6,15 37:8,14 43:8 27:4,11 29:16
50:7 40:7 44:19 40:5,12 42:20 43:13,18 48:2 29:20 43:14
45:11,16,21 43:3 45:11 48:7 49:4 49:5 55:2
33:9 22:9 23:9 51:22 52:9 chose 31:24 come 8:9 9:19
34:16 26:18 31:8 55:4,19,20 Circuit 3:16 17:10 36:21,22
38:9 56:7,10,11 13:9 15:9 16:2 42:6,10
48:24 brutality 8:5 20:6,10 26:8 21:11 6:19 15:9 16:2
42:17,24 49:25 46:6 36:14 47:2,9
28:11,16 C 52:8,11 55:17 circumstantial 47:22
30:8 C 2:1 3:1 category 36:15 47:11 community
Caldwell 6:20 CENTER 1:5 cited 16:21 12:22 38:23
called 11:12 cert 22:15 37:4 31:23 44:13 47:19
34:4 12:6,24 42:7 54:14 City 1:18 compare 17:6
35:11,19 42:17 certain 15:21 civilized 36:4 comparison
36:23 capital 9:3,19 55:8 50:14 17:16
18:22,23 19:9 certainly 4:11 claim 30:23 complaining
39:8 27:10,16,16 4:14,24,25 claims 23:2 31:9
41:11 41:16,17 42:17 7:12 8:11 9:11 clause 40:3 complete 48:3
43:10,17 42:20,21 10:6 16:4 clear 5:17 9:14 completely
44:6,15 carried 23:13 20:13 23:8 25:2 26:19 29:19 44:7
case 3:4 4:7 5:12 24:3,7 25:10 30:10 31:8 components
47:1 48:6 8:4,24 9:9,13 25:17 54:2,12,13 30:23
49:8 9:22 10:7,25 cetera 38:24 clearest 29:2 conceded 37:6
50:6,20 10:25 11:12,13 challenge 30:20 clearly 16:12 concept 32:3
51:6,10 11:15,15 12:6 challenges 31:7 18:11,16 19:17 concern 5:1
52:6,12 13:8,9,15,20 chaos 43:11 24:13 29:1 concession 9:18
53:4 13:22 15:3,6,6 50:11 30:2,6,7 36:19 10:8,19,20
54:7 15:8,19 16:11 character 47:18 36:25 37:5 conclude 21:20
16:15 17:7,8 charges 16:25 39:21 55:1 conclusion
23:23 24:9 14:10 20:9 closely 33:14 confinement
23:11 28:10 court's 3:14,17 50:4,11,12 deserves 33:20
51:24 1:5 42:24 44:7 decide 11:24 53:9
36:2,9 counsel 13:5,6 55:16 56:5 52:10 29:24 39:10
25:24 26:2,12 crazy 41:5 4:2 7:6,25 8:6 deterred 50:2
38:1 39:24 crime 8:5 35:4 14:23 17:8,10 deterrence 32:3
41:19 43:22 43:6 49:10 20:25 21:21 32:7,17,24,25
5:8,11 6:1 46:11 51:15 criminal 39:19 30:18 37:12 35:18,21 49:21
56:9 50:23 54:11 56:6 50:5 55:1,7,8,9
32:5 counterintuitive cruel 14:25 19:17 29:2 deterrent 32:16
21:7 culpability 33:3 30:9 35:22 33:4,21,24
4:6 county 11:22 49:13,19 50:16 44:18 45:15 devoid 6:10
35:11 42:2,3 13:25 14:7 defendant 9:3,8 40:20 41:18
20:10 51:13 47:6 defendant's differently
court 1:1,14 3:9 6:17 12:16 36:22 53:23,23
4:2,4,23 6:19 D 3:1 16:12,18 21:25 49:2
20:6 24:8 18:16 19:2,18 29:11 30:15 51:14,15,17 15:5 20:7,11
27:21 19:24 20:18 days 22:8 52:23 deference 3:16 23:25 24:2,10
22:16 24:3,14 dealer 48:16 3:22 30:1 56:6 28:19 29:8
42:15 24:20 26:17 dealers 35:16 definition 32:3 39:15 40:5
48:10 29:2,3,10 30:2 44:23 deliberate 20:20 42:25 44:16
30:3,11,18 death 7:9,12 8:1 32:16 disagree 6:25
38:5,13 39:15 10:3 11:25 20:16 discretion 11:5
44:17 45:12 32:12,17,18 41:23 discussed 21:13
15:24 56:2,4,6 46:8 47:11,21 deserve 33:6 22:15,16 23:3
18:18 courts 37:11 48:22 49:3,13 43:1 49:13 38:1 52:25
42:12,13 43:16 established 3:12 filled 12:22
dying 33:12 24:13,20 29:1 face 12:15,16 finally 21:4
30:2,7 36:19 49:24 55:4 find 19:16 21:10
15:14 earliest 38:14 et 38:24 32:15 35:6,6 45:16
effect 23:21 evaluation 3:18 23:20 34:8 23:13 30:11
38:5 34:20 5:14 6:7 8:13 46:14 48:10 6:11,13 30:11
53:16,16 Eighth 3:16 6:20 8:15 9:1,8,12 fail 31:6 35:2 31:5 38:3
13:9 15:9 16:2 9:21 10:1 21:1 failed 3:22 30:19 39:11 54:25
43:16 18:2 38:2 23:12 29:14,18 failing 27:8 47:24
6:11 either 16:9 24:1 49:9 55:4 19:22 20:3 focused 51:14
29:5 24:2 26:3 exact 45:23 44:21 follow 25:11,13
51:14 52:18 exactly 18:21 fairness 3:12 4:3 25:25 26:4,5
emotion 6:10 example 13:23 6:12 24:8 25:1 footnote 22:8
35:15 34:12 39:4 45:2,8 family 41:23 26:18 41:2
44:22 enforcement executed 45:3 far 15:16 17:2 forms 20:22
11:23,24 13:24 execution 23:14 32:8 34:18 found 6:19 15:9
entire 3:24 4:6 55:5 favor 10:1 48:12
28:17 entitled 17:25 exhausted 23:2 19:21 20:10 21:14 54:20
18:2 explicitly 9:20 23:23 25:23 fours 37:9,12
52:25 exploited 26:22 48:4 55:5,18 friend's 12:14
8:8,21 35:25 extent 10:5 fight 51:15,16 function 33:4,21
9:5,23,25 ESQ 1:17,19 2:3 13:17 16:7 52:2,2 33:24 54:11
2:6,9 26:9 42:20 fighting 27:12 fundamental
essence 37:2 46:18 55:6 file 13:13 4:3,8,16 5:9
essentially 4:17 56:4 filed 22:8,11,12 6:12,15 24:8
45:19 42:25 50:10 harsh 14:25 14:16,23 41:8 instance 43:25
54:3 going 12:11 head 38:18 48:5 43:5 48:22 55:15
30:14 33:11,11 40:5 hear 3:3 imposing 14:12 48:18
43:3 48:1 40:9 46:5 heard 21:5 impress 12:8 instructed 20:16
4:11 5:8 govern 29:19 higher 50:17 32:1,2 36:14 20:17,18,21,24
8:17 granted 38:5 historical 27:21 38:4 39:13 21:8 35:5 47:5
30:5 53:6,17 55:21 44:3 47:2 50:5 47:6 51:3
34:11 ground 53:17 holding 27:6 55:2 Interestingly
49:8 grounds 15:5 Honor 4:13 5:4 improperly 3:18 15:25
42:7,11 guided 42:4 18:5,8 20:13 inartful 7:4 3:14 7:24
46:5 guiding 29:22 22:20 23:11,25include 6:8 14:21 34:22
guilt 18:21 19:3 24:8 54:24 19:18 interpreted 7:15
27:10 40:11,11 hotly 47:12 15:13 43:4 20:10
15:12,21 42:18 47:11 hypothetical indication 25:17 29:14
guilty 27:14 5:17 35:2 invalidates
36:20 34:11,24 40:16 individual 6:16 46:19
34:8 41:6 identical 45:23 40:18 40:10
44:1 45:5 guy 34:8 48:9 ignored 24:5,7 individuals 27:8 involved 27:23
50:11 II 27:7 27:14 51:19 48:16 49:1
H illogical 29:19 individual's involving 16:21
15:11 habeas 22:7,10 imparting 14:22 49:12 28:17
20:19 53:5,12,13,14 implicated 6:17 indulged 23:19 isolation 3:19
28:15 53:20 implication inference 9:5 10:21,24
28:23 happened 30:12 important 10:21 initial 53:4 i.e 34:2
35:17 39:24 28:1 31:19 initially 38:5
happening 32:8 34:18 53:6 J
35:14 hard 42:14,22 50:3 innocent 47:13 Jefferson 1:18
38:19 51:17 impose 7:25 9:6 48:25 Jenner 30:4
24:1,5,11,15 Kennedy's lawyer 42:20 lower 52:19
36:16,16 25:4,13,18,19 kill 7:22 8:21,23lead 46:22 M
37:1 25:21,21 26:1 9:6,23 12:9 leeway 3:15 30:1 majority 16:2
39:24 26:12,16 27:1 14:14 28:22,23 left 33:16 making 5:22
46:5 28:9,14,25 28:23 35:7,12 legal 22:4 man 39:3
50:13 31:11,16 32:1 killing 50:2 level 6:14 29:22 matter 1:13
34:23 35:17,23 41:1 leveraging 28:4 matters 26:24
11:1 37:18 38:8,15 12:13,15,23 44:5,11,13 22:14 25:23
27:23,25 39:19 40:7,8 17:19 18:23 51:15,16 52:2 26:2 28:12,17
40:14 41:18 19:4 26:6 52:2 30:24,25 31:12
10:17 44:2,8,19 34:10 35:4 39:23 48:20 53:2
13:21 45:11,16,21 37:22 40:25 likes 9:23 54:1
15:18,19 46:10 48:2,7 45:24 46:1,7 limited 24:12,12 mechanism
48:19 49:4,15 46:21 27:6,6 43:25 20:14
21:5,8 49:18 50:1,15 listener 8:22 mention 9:21
50:21 51:1,8 L listening 16:13 27:5 49:16
35:3 51:13 52:1,12 lack 8:4 little 11:10,16 mentioned
39:2 52:23 53:2,12 ladies 8:6 41:21 38:16 53:8 35:18 49:19
41:4,22 53:21 54:5,8 42:7,11 44:10 logical 34:14,21 mercy 41:24
43:5,14 54:18 55:12 46:4 52:3 logically 28:24 message 12:25
48:7 56:9 laid 3:10 21:3 29:15 13:1 35:15
justification larger 10:25 look 11:8,9,14 43:9,10,11,15
5:2,5,16 law 4:22 5:3,15 29:1 33:23 44:1,5,25 45:5
6:3,21 7:1 K 7:10,13 11:10 35:13 39:11 45:5,8 50:4
8:2 K 1:17 2:3,9 3:6 11:16,23,24 41:18 45:12,14 mind 34:8 35:3
9:17 10:8 54:22 13:10,24 18:12 45:22,22 46:4 35:3,5
Kennedy 5:16 19:17 20:12 47:13 48:9 minutes 54:20
11:7 5:21 6:3 7:18 22:5 23:23,23 49:6 50:9 misdemeanor
17:18 18:6,10 24:13 25:14,16 51:22 52:6,7 47:16
22:22 23:1 28:6 29:1 30:7 looked 11:11 miserable 41:23
16:7 25:4,13,18,21 30:21 36:19,25 looking 3:19 misidentificati...
32:14,20,23 37:5 39:22 14:10 21:24
18:6,10 35:17,23,25 42:12 51:4 looks 11:16 Missouri 3:17
19:1 38:8 44:2,8 54:3 lords 12:25 4:1 30:17
20:2,9 50:15,21 51:1 Lawrence 53:22 losing 26:2 55:22 56:1,4
51:8 53:21 53:24 54:2,5,8 lot 11:17 15:3 misstate 5:15
3:16 13:24 28:6 55:23 56:1 Peninsula 27:12
7:10,12 11:21,25 12:7 okay 12:17 pale 51:21 perceived 48:24
13:21 15:13,18 39:8 44:1 part 21:12 22:14 32:12 33:19
54:3 17:13 47:24 one-sided 10:1 39:11 48:13,23 40:16,22 41:5
35:6 46:6 non-capital operate 55:10 34:3 40:6,15 52:7
40:11 opinion 10:9,17 41:15 46:14 pertain 32:10
43:4 21:18 26:20 38:14 passage 7:16,18 37:4,15 38:5
49:12,18 31:7 32:11 opposed 50:17 passages 38:16 54:4,15
39:17 47:2,3 51:4 passenger 22:1 Petitioner 1:6
numbers 20:21 opposition 23:9 passion 23:22 1:18 2:4,10 3:7
50:17 16:16 28:9,11 ordinary 41:21 31:7 4:15 18:14,21
objection 13:25 ought 33:25 peddlers 36:5 19:10,13,14
16:12 overlap 16:25 26:19 28:8 48:10 49:5,12
14:23 38:13 53:19 15:23 47:4 33:4,6,19,21 picture 11:2,9,9
21:25 obtain 49:2 overstated 27:2 33:24 34:1,9 48:3 51:6
55:14 obviously 6:2 overwhelming 35:21 36:8 pile 12:14,16
occasions 34:20 O'Connor's 41:8,16 42:18 plenty 46:12
34:7 35:3 office 26:22 28:4 P 49:13 50:4,12 24:12,13 29:21
45:6 41:14 P 3:1 51:18 52:8 29:24 31:1,6
33:1 presume 20:17 prosecution 8:3 31:24 36:6 recital 48:2
36:5 pretty 12:18 8:10 27:7 42:4 46:7 recognized 37:9
prevail 36:6 42:10 44:2 record 4:6 47:16
40:5 43:11 46:19 48:5 Q red 22:9
48:14 previously 49:2 question 4:17,21 refer 31:14 32:3
53:7 55:13 prosecutor 4:21 5:6 13:6 19:16 33:15 49:21
54:25 55:11 10:24 11:12,13 23:16 24:18 14:18
41:12 15:1,16 16:14 46:10,11,16,17 refile 53:9
37:25 47:15 23:19 25:6,7 46:20 register 27:8
28:4 problem 43:2 46:4,21 47:12 23:10 31:8,10 relate 42:16
procedure 42:16 51:24 52:10 raises 22:9 relevant 7:4
53:15,20 prosecutors reaching 3:15 relied 21:9
19:9 3:20,24 4:7 13:14,16 24:6 20:18 28:20,24 remaining 54:21
9:14 26:24 24:23,25 25:5 51:23 remanded 53:16
process 13:8 3:24 4:19 5:13 realize 42:8 20:23 25:3
40:3 29:11 40:1 49:16 54:10 40:2 47:25
24:14 protect 43:6 23:6 41:12 repeatedly 28:4
19:24 36:12 provided 3:15 reasonable 7:23 reply 38:9
propositions purchaser 48:17 23:19 32:17 require 6:10
prosecute 36:11 23:21 32:16 40:18 respect 53:24
3:25 4:7 Romano 29:5,11 52:11 54:14 24:13 29:21 2:9 3:5,6,8
21:25 29:13,14 seeks 23:3 50:18 single 31:1 4:13,24 5:4,6
26:15 Roper 1:3 3:4 send 12:25,25 sit 23:17 5:20,23 6:6,24
rule 24:5,19 35:15 36:1 situation 9:2,2 7:3,11,17,23
29:5,10,11,16 43:8,10,11,20 six 34:15,20 10:11,15,20
53:22,23 50:4 Sixth 6:18 13:17 14:4,9
sense 5:25 6:7 society 27:24 16:23 17:5
S 2:1 3:1 25:2,11,16 50:11,14,18 18:24 19:11
33:16,23 37:20 36:2 42:22 12:13,18 14:17 23:4,11,25
12:7,9,12,24 separate 15:8 28:1,21 spoke 21:11
28:5 56:2 setting 19:22 53:25 37:21 39:11
35:23 SCALIA 8:2 settled 17:19 sort 4:20 35:20 standards 20:7
46:2 9:17 13:2,10 seven 34:15 44:21 53:19 39:19 50:18
54:9 18:15 23:8 severity 49:10 sorts 49:6 state 3:14,23
14:10 46:10 48:19 shows 46:24 speaking 21:15 52:8 56:4,6
26:12 52:1 53:12 Shurn 16:21 special 42:16 stated 13:15
29:7 scheme 33:7 17:12,14 48:17 specific 6:18 9:8 statement 9:12
30:9 se 23:1 27:3 side 17:6,6,15,16 9:8 20:5 21:2 9:15 13:23
37:8 Second 55:20 significance 55:10 14:11 33:23
43:8,13 Secondly 6:16 27:2 specifically 34:5 35:20
48:2,7 15:7 55:12 significant 18:12 37:9 39:6 43:23,24
51:13 see 10:3 34:13 16:25 30:19 55:24 statements 5:11
56:9 35:2,9 41:9,11 48:14 specificity 18:1 5:25 6:13 7:19
14:19 suggested 6:23 48:15 15:3 16:3,17 totality 3:20
49:15 talk 32:24 36:1 17:15 19:11 9:14 28:18
suggesting talked 8:18 23:24 24:3 29:12 30:12
26:21 48:12,21,22 10:17 32:25 25:24 27:1,3 48:13
56:3 summing 18:20 talking 11:21 27:21 28:1,20 touch 37:22
19:19,20 1:4 49:7 51:1 32:6,22 33:18 touchstones
26:4,5 supervisory 52:21 34:14,21 35:4 39:18
15:7 20:5 Taylor 37:18 35:12,17,19 trade 48:17
6:21 7:1 supported 23:13 25:8,24 44:9 43:21 44:6,8 19:22 20:3
10:8,13 suppose 9:4 10:8 46:5 44:15 45:2,3,4 25:3 27:16
19:15 22:7 24:19 telling 8:20 9:18 45:6,6,7,13 39:24 41:16,17
22:3 35:18 44:19,22 10:17 28:21,22 46:1,8 48:15 41:20,21 42:21
24:1,5 supposed 11:17 35:3 36:6 49:8,18,22 44:7,8 48:1
52:12 11:19 12:2,3 tells 8:24 50:6 51:10,21 trials 55:10
53:2 12:20,21 13:3 tempered 17:7 53:18 54:13 trial's 40:22
41:13 49:12 17:17 thirdly 21:2 tried 13:8 17:8
25:19,22 3:17 4:2 12:4 test 6:12 36:18,20 37:4 troubled 52:14
56:1 they'd 6:3 tied 33:13 35:25 two 4:5 13:19
55:3 surely 9:18,20 thing 11:16 27:19 38:12 22:8 30:10
sustained 15:11 34:17 37:24 timely 22:18 54:25
T 2:1,1 39:17 45:24 today 3:4 ultimate 49:10
47:1 51:12,22 11:13 15:19,20 34:2
47:22 50:16,22 7:19,23 8:14 top 11:22,23 underlying 9:21
39:21 15:5 19:19 34:18,19,20,24 40:17 47:23 54 2:10
55:6 23:17 27:2,2,3
35:7 worst 17:13
40:2 view 36:22 38:19,22 39:2 51:18 820 37:15
viewed 3:23 44:25 47:15 wrap 36:10
51:14 wretch 41:23
violated 5:19 Weaver's 26:20 writ 38:5 53:6
violates 46:17Wednesday written 24:21
19:19,20 violation 24:17
39:14 40:3 47:24 13:13,16 35:1
vis 9:3,3 39:25 46:18 54:6
36:17 51:15 52:4 17:2 33:9 X
37:20 vouch 19:4 38:16 46:4 x 1:2,9
vouches 11:20 49:15 50:7
W weren't 40:12 yeah 46:21
41:4 want 5:18,21 we'll 3:3 45:23
30:9 39:8 we're 44:12 0
44:12 06-313 1:7 3:4
we've 4:11 42:17
21:18
war 12:8,9 31:22 32:8,9 10:02 1:15 3:2
26:23 32:10,11 34:16
34:18,19,20,24 12 15:24 16:11
wasn't 11:17 williams 37:18 23 20:24
10:3 34:19 39:21 word 10:14 27:5 27 20:22
27:14 42:13 50:7 words 7:9 14:24 275 11:6
51:21 54:9 20:3 54:10 28 20:21
37:18 Weaver 1:8 3:4 work 39:22
12:24 31:22 world 27:7 3 2:4
14:24 33:9,17 34:17 worse 11:25 5
