IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JOHN F. HINCK, ET UX., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 06-376
UNITED STATES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, April 23, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
THOMAS E. REDDING, ESQ., Houston, Tex; on behalf of the
Petitioner.
JONATHAN L. MARCUS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THOMAS E. REDDING, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JONATHAN L. MARCUS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 22
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS E. REDDING, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 48
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:00 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in case 06-376, Hinck vs. United States.
Mr. Redding.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS E. REDDING
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. REDDING: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Federal Circuit's opinion is simply
wrong. Enactment of Section 6404(h) did not repeal
district court and Court of Federal Claims refund
jurisdiction over interest by the Internal Revenue
Service. Both circuits have found that there was
pre-existing jurisdiction prior to the enactment of
Section 6406(h). Nothing in Section 6404(h) expressly
repeals that jurisdiction, and there are many instances
in the code where Congress when it does intend to
expressly limit jurisdiction, will state that in the
enabling statute. Reference to the tax court, specific
reference to the tax court in 6404(h) was mandated
unnecessary by Section 7442 and the nature of the tax
court. The tax court is only given jurisdiction over
those matters where it is specifically set out in the
tax code.
And the established framework of pay and sue
jurisdiction in the district courts and prepayment
jurisdiction in the tax court is a well established
framework for tax litigation. That has been accepted
and enunciated by this Court as far back as the Flora
opinions. It's a well established pattern of duality of
jurisdiction in the two forums.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But not with respect
to abatement of interest in particular.
MR. REDDING: Not with respect to abatement
of interest, Your Honor, but as a general basis. The
availability of a prepayment forum that was originally
enacted to be complementary to the ability to pay and
sue in order to protect smaller taxpayers, and avoid the
hardships faced by having to pay in full before having
access to refund jurisdiction, and in fact perhaps to
avoid bankruptcy. That is completely consistent with
the way this section is enacted. Section 6404(h) even
includes the limitation that only taxpayers with a net
worth below $2 million or corporations below $7 million
have prepayment access to the tax court. And abatement
by itself is generally a prepayment remedy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's a -- on that
point, Mr. Redding, it seems odd that given this
tripartite system, Congress would want only the tax
court to be restricted in the people who could claim the
abatement, the net worth test applicable in the tax
court on your theory, if there is authority in the
claims court and in the district courts, they're not
limited to the net worth restrictions.
MR. REDDING: That is correct, Your Honor,
but I do believe that it is consistent with the intent
of the formation of the tax court to provide a
prepayment forum to especially avoid hardship and the
potential even of bankruptcy. It's very consistent with
that pattern to say that the larger taxpayer can afford
to pay the tax and sue, whereas the smaller taxpayer may
be in greater need of a prepayment forum. It's also
consistent with imposing the very short limitation
period for bringing an action in the tax court, because
there the government has a very vested interest in being
able to proceed with collection of the tax.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But why would you
not want some -- a larger taxpayer to be able to proceed
in the tax court if you can also proceed in the claims
court?
MR. REDDING: Your Honor, I can't speak to
Congress's reasoning behind that but I can understand
the logic behind saying we're going to create a special
prepayment remedy that allows the smaller taxpayer an
expedited means of resolving these issues without having
to first pay it and sue, whereas the larger taxpayer is
not put into a hardship position, is not inconvenienced
as bad by having to follow the old well established
procedures of pay and sue.
And I will note that 6404(h) does not apply
only to 6404(e)(1), which is the subsection we're coming
under. 6404(h) applies to all of the abatement grounds
under Section 6404. And if we were to repeal
jurisdiction in the district court and the Court of
Federal Claims over all of those provisions, then we
would be completely taking away a remedy that has been
there all along to the larger taxpayers. But to create
a new remedy that is consistent with the pattern that
allows a small taxpayer access to a prepayment forum, I
think is completely consistent with the entire history
of this court. This court meaning the tax court. And
its purpose.
In evaluating two statutes that appear to
either conflict or overlap, I think it is, in reviewing
whatever doctrine you call it, whatever canon you call
it of interpretation, it appears to me that what this
Court has always done is to look to see if the two
statutes can be harmonized rather than seeing if one
supersedes the other. And here considering the
extension of prepayment jurisdiction to the tax court
merely an additional form of prepayment jurisdiction
being granted to the tax court is completely consistent
with the long-standing pattern of pay and sue
jurisdiction in the district courts, prepayment
jurisdiction in the tax court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you have no
basis for an abatement of interest action apart from
6404(h), correct? That is the only place you get the
actual cause of action to sue for abatement of interest?
MR. REDDING: Abatement as a prepayment
remedy, yes, Your Honor. Once the IRS has failed to
abate the interest and you make payment then you have
the normal refund, refund provisions available.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But what would you
cite to, in response to the prior cases that said you
had no cause of action for abasement of interest?
MR. REDDING: Actually Your Honor I don't
believe that's what the cases said. They said you had
no cause of action that could be pursued under
6404(e)(1) but even the seminal cases, Horton -- or
Selman and Horton Homes compared a Section 6404(e)(1)
action to a Section 6404(e)(2) action and basically said
you could have brought a refund claim. If you qualified
under (e)(2) there would have been no impediment to
bringing that as a refund action because there was a
clearly established standard. The (e)(2) provision is a
must standard.
Now, under 6404(h) if it is exclusive over
abatement jurisdiction, then any taxpayer who would have
had access to the courts, for example for an (e)(2)
abatement case, unless they are a small taxpayer they
will be completely denied any remedy whatsoever.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is (e)(2)? Is it
produced in these materials. I got (e)(1); I don't have
(e)(2). I don't really like talking about a section I
don't have in front of me.
MR. REDDING: I believe all of 6404 was in
the appendix but I don't have it in front of me.
Yeah. It's -- it's immediate, in the code section
it's immediately below (e)(1).
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ah.
MR. REDDING: But I mean -- I'm sorry, Your
Honor. That doesn't help you --
(Laughter.)
MR. REDDING: -- where it is in the
materials.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's one thing about this
case I'm sure about.
(Laughter.)
MR. REDDING: I apologize, Your Honor, but I
do not have that. It is in the appendix to the
petition, the entire code section is set out.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that the one that says
interest abated with respect to erroneous refund check?
Or am I reading wrong?
MR. REDDING: Yes, Sir, it is.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the one I'm
looking at just has (e)(1). Did you have a page number?
JUSTICE SOUTER: At page 42 of the appendix,
all -- all there is is a subsection 1.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right.
MR. REDDING: Well, Your Honor, I have the
code section in front of me now but I still do not have
the reference in the appendix. I apologize but I simply
don't have it, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can I go back to
something you just said, that I thought you said that
the people would have no remedy if the tax court -- were
the only forum for abatement claims? And it would be
the exclusive forum but nobody -- it wouldn't deny
access to anyone.
MR. REDDING: Your Honor --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Abatement claim, if you
read this as the Government does, is one place where you
go, and the tax court but everyone who has an abatement
claim could go there. So who's being cut out?
MR. REDDING: Well no, Your Honor, everyone
cannot go there. You can only go there if you're a
taxpayer, an individual taxpayer with a net worth of
less than $2 million.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Oh, yes. But -- yes.
And I had asked you before well doesn't it seem, it
seems strange that Congress would want to limit the
authority of the, of the court where most people go and
have no limit for the wealthier taxpayers.
MR. REDDING: Your Honor, again, my, my view
of that is the Congress intended to limit the special
relief of prepayment jurisdiction to the smaller
taxpayers. But the availability of a pay and sue remedy
was already in existence and continues in existence and
those wealthier taxpayers generally can afford to pay
the liability in full and sue.
A prepayment forum which delays the
collection of the tax to the Government, you know, the
Government has a special interest there in restricting
access to that relief so that it can proceed with
collection. And again, it just makes logical sense that
as to a larger taxpayer the ability to pay and sue
should be a sufficient remedy. Generally speaking --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought Congress was
operating on the assumption that no court could hear an
abatement claim?
MR. REDDING: Your Honor, that comes largely
from the legislative history, the House Committee report
addressing interestingly, subsection (h). And
subsection (h) since it applies only to prepayment
abatement claims specifically, I think then you, then
that legislative history makes sense. Because in that
same page in the legislative history --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, give me a decision
of the claims court or a district court that said courts
have authority to abate the interest before Congress
enacted this legislation?
MR. REDDING: I don't believe there is a
specific case out there that I can cite to you where it
has happened. It is, it is reflected in both Horton
Homes and Selman that that availability existed with
respect to (e)(2) to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it fair to say that
Congress acted on the assumption that there was no right
to the abatement with, and to the payment unless it
enacted the statutes?
MR. REDDING: Your Honor, I don't believe
so. Again, because that legislative history that's
referred to is restricted, the House Committee report is
restricted only to the subsection creating the tax court
prepayment jurisdiction. It is not relevant to the rest
of the amendments to Section 6404. And I note that in
doing so Congress also did not make the restriction on
the $2 million/$7 million net worth relative to the
rights being granted under the other provisions of 6404.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's easy to see why the
only cases you have relate to (e)(2) rather than (e)(1).
(E)(2) which we don't have in the materials, but I have
gotten a copy of it.
And (e)(1) says that the Secretary "may"
abate the assessment of all or any part. And those
cases that denied it said this is discretionary; he
doesn't have to. (E)(2) on the other hand, interest
abated with respect to erroneous refund check, says the
Secretary "shall" abate the assessment. So really,
(e)(2) doesn't -- doesn't do you any good at all with
respect to whether there was a cause of action before
(h) was adopted.
MR. REDDING: Well -- Your Honor, I
respectfully disagree because 6404(h) applies to (e)(2)
as much as it does to (e)(1). And any taxpayer that
would have met the net worth requirements or whether or
not they met the net worth requirements that are now in
H, could have brought a refund suit under (e)(2)
previously.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, sure. But --
but that's just saying, if -- you used to have the
entitlement under (e)(2) and you're saying well, you
could bring cases under (e)(2). But 6404(h) allows you
to bring cases under (e)(1). It would follow a fortiori
that you could bring them for (e)(2) as well, but that
doesn't prove that you could prove them under (e)(1) in
the claims court or the district court.
MR. REDDING: No it does not, Your Honor.
What I'm trying to address is the intent to repeal the
pre-existing jurisdiction, again because 6404(h) does
not apply just to (e)(1), where the might be a question
about whether or not they could have brought the case
previously, although jurisdiction existed. Clearly they
could have brought their case under (e)(2).
JUSTICE SCALIA: I see. What you're say is
that cases that used to be bringable under (e)(2) would
now be bringable only under (h) which would in effect be
an implicit repeal of (e)(2).
MR. REDDING: Of (e)(2) --
JUSTICE SCALIA: At least as far as suits
elsewhere than in the tax court.
MR. REDDING: That's correct. And
additionally limit it solely to the small taxpayer. The
larger taxpayer who had a prior remedy would have none.
JUSTICE BREYER: It seems to apply just to
abuse of discretion.
MR. REDDING: I'm sorry, Your Honor?
JUSTICE BREYER:: Doesn't the new statute
just apply to abuse of discretion?
MR. REDDING: No, Your Honor, it does not.
It creates the standard under which the tax court may
review any interest abatement claim under Section --
JUSTICE BREYER: It says you have
jurisdiction to determine whether it's an abusive
discretion. Maybe I'm reading the wrong place. 6404 --
MR. REDDING: Yes, Your Honor, that is the
standard it applies to.
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. Well that standard
doesn't apply to the (e)(2). It has nothing to do with
it; (e)(2) says if it's a refund, abate, if not, not.
It's not a question of abuse of discretion or not.
MR. REDDING: Well I think it's the standard
on which they are to review the Government's action.
And I believe I cannot cite the case but there are cases
that hold that a violation of law is a per se abuse of
discretion. There are also other subsections --
subsections under 6404 which are made provisions in
other 6404 subsections, which are must provisions.
There are about five different subsections under 6404
that provide for interest abatement.
Again, I come back to the long-established
pattern of having prepayment jurisdiction in the tax
court and postpayment refund jurisdiction in the
district courts and Court of Federal Claims. It's a
well established system, and adding a new prepayment
form of relief into the tax court in no way should be
implied to be a repeal of the long established refund --
pay and sue refund jurisdiction that normally exists.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if you went into
the district court and claimed that the failure to abate
interest was an abuse of discretion, what would you rely
on for the -- for the cause of action?
MR. REDDING: If the failure to abate
interest was an abuse of discretion under (e)(1) you
would rely on (e)(1) for the cause of action. The right
is created by the other subsections of (h) of 6404.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought the prior
cases consistently, consistently said that there was no
judicial review because it was "may abate" and that it
was only with the arrival of 6404(h)(1) that there was a
cause of action for abuse of discretion?
MR. REDDING: Yes, Your Honor, but I believe
what they actually said is that there was jurisdiction
to hear it but there was not a justiciable standard that
could be applied with regard to (e)(1). However, once
Congress came in and says to the tax court you're going
to apply this standard, there is a standard of review.
That now indicates Congress did not intend it to be
solely discretionary, and that the district court or
Court of Federal Claims would look to the general common
law; it would look to precedents, such as the APAA abuse
of discretion standard is consistently used throughout
the court systems in --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you want to look
at 6404(h)(1) saying now we have a standard, but you
don't want the other stuff that goes along with
6404(h)(1), which is it's in the tax court; you got to
have less than ten million, blah, blah, blah?
MR. REDDING: That is correct, Your Honor.
The abuse of discretion standard is a common law
standard which has been carried over into -- into this
statute. But to create a --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it didn't exist
before this statute? I mean, the lower courts as I
understand it said, routinely, yes, you can have
jurisdiction, but have you no claim for relief because
there is no, no law to apply. This is a totally
discretionary matter of the Commissioner's grace. So
Congress perhaps didn't grasp the subtle distinction
between no jurisdiction, and you can walk in the door
but you go out the next door, because there is no
justiciable claim. And it provided peculiarly in the
tax court for relief that was not available anyplace
before?
MR. REDDING: I understand and that's
basically the Fifth Circuit's view, Your Honor. I do
not agree with that view. I think that the Congress was
merely expanding the existing structure of prepayment
jurisdiction for the tax court --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Fifth Circuit -- I
thought the Fifth Circuit went your way.
MR. REDDING: Pardon?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the Fifth
Circuit went your way.
MR. REDDING: It did, Your Honor. I'm
sorry. The Federal Circuit analyzed it as you have. I
do not believe that that is the correct analysis. I
think the Fifth Circuit has this one right. What you
have is a grant of jurisdiction to the United States Tax
Court for a prepayment forum of relief which is
consistent with the existing pattern, and in no other
instance where that has been done has there been an
implied repeal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. -- Mr. Redding, let me
come back to the phantom (e)(2) which we have finally
traced down.
MR. REDDING: I apologize, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I am not sure that (h)
would impliedly repeal (e)(2), because (e)(2) is
mandatory. There isn't any question under (e)(2)
whether there has been an abuse of discretion. There is
no discretion. It is mandatory to the extent that the
Administrative Procedure Act would govern (e)(2), it
would be for a violation of law not for abuse of
discretion.
So when (h) says the tax court shall have
jurisdiction to determine whether the Secretary's
failure to abate interest was an abuse of discretion, I
would take that to apply only to (e)(1), which says the
Secretary may abate and not to (e)(2) which says the
Secretary shall abate. There is no question of -- of
discretion in (e)(2) at all.
MR. REDDING: I understand that argument,
Your Honor. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It was a pretty good
argument, I thought.
(Laughter.)
MR. REDDING: I agree, Your Honor. I would
note to the Court, though, that 6404(d) is also a
may-abate provision which is in the code. 6404(a) is
also a permissive abatement provision, and those
provisions would clearly be covered by it. I, when it
says it may, may review a failure to abate interest
under 6404, I read that as encompassing all of 6404 and
creating their standard for review. I do not review
that as a new standard that applies.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about those other
sections, (c) and (d), which say the Secretary is
authorized? Have there been cases which, which said
that you could sue for, for his failure to make use of
that?
MR. REDDING: Your Honor, I've been able to
find no case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's the same as with (e)?
MR. REDDING: Yes Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: As with (e)(1).
MR. REDDING: Yes, Your Honor. There's no
clearly history of cases.
I would also submit, Your Honor, that
because of the established pattern of pay and sue versus
prepayment jurisdiction and the necessity to make a
specific reference to the tax court in any grant of
jurisdiction in the tax code in order to enable the tax
court to have jurisdiction, that if this is the ruling
of this Court with regard to 6404(h), it is going to
raise a question every time prepayment jurisdiction is
extended to the tax court over any matter as to whether
that somehow now becomes exclusive of the conventional
pay and sue remedy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, there's a
fundamental difference on this particular question
between pay and sue and sue --
MR. REDDING: Prepay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- prepay, because
if you -- in the district court if you're paying and
suing you're not really subject to the accrual of
interest, right?
MR. REDDING: No, Your Honor, that is not
correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If I owe the IRS,
1,000 dollars and they send me a bill and I paid the
1,000 dollars, they've got the money, I don't. So I
don't owe interest on that, do I?
MR. REDDING: Your Honor, may I reflect it
back to the facts in this case. The time period with
respect to which abatement is requested occurs many
years before the IRS ever sent the taxpayer a bill. The
errors and delays complained of in this case occurred
during the course of the partnership level examination
and proceedings. The taxpayer at that time doesn't even
have a notice of what the adjustments are going to be,
let alone what his tax liability is. In a partnership
case, the partnership level determinations are made at
the partnership level. The Government then, without any
further notice to the taxpayer, is free to make the
computation of the taxpayer's liability and send him a
bill.
During the pendency of the proceedings at
the partnership level, there is virtually no way to
tell, except as to what the outside maximum liability
might be if the Government prevails, what your liability
is going to be. And if --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The initial bill
includes the interest?
MR. REDDING: Absolutely, Your Honor, that's
being asked to be relieved of in this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But still, in the
tax court situation it's still accruing?
MR. REDDING: Well, yes. It's accruing
during the course of the tax court proceeding. And
again, even there for an individual if the time period
involved was prior to the assessment the pay, the being
able to pay it and cut off the interest really wouldn't
make sense.
Basically, Your Honor, I believe that, I
believe that this case really rests on what I think the
Fifth Circuit summarized quite well when it says that it
makes more sense in this case to simply believe the
Congress, quote, "simply intended" -- "simply chose to
extend concurrent jurisdiction to the tax court over a
certain class of claims." And that's all it really has
done here. It has implemented and expanded the
conventional jurisdiction of the tax court as a
prepayment forum before you do have to pay the liability
to resolve a dispute with the Internal Revenue Service.
There is no reason, I don't believe, to see
this as a major departure from the existing structure of
pay and sue jurisdiction versus prepayment jurisdiction.
This is just a well established plan that's been in the
code for many, many years.
Mr. Chief Justice, if the Court has no other
questions I would reserve my remaining time for
rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Redding.
Mr. Marcus.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN L. MARCUS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. MARCUS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The court of appeals correctly held that the
tax court has exclusive jurisdiction over actions
challenging interest abatement determinations under
Section 6404(e)(1). The language, structure and history
of the interest abatement review statute supports the
court of appeals' decision as to principles of sovereign
immunity. Under Petitioner's theory the specific
restrictions on the remedy that Congress created may be
avoided by the simple expedient of filing a challenge in
another forum. Nothing in the interest abatement review
statute or this Court's precedent permits that result.
The place to start is the language of the
interest abatement review statute. Section 6404(h)
provides the tax court shall have jurisdiction over an
interest abatement action brought by taxpayers who meet
the net worth limitations set out in another part of the
code and who file their claim within 180 days of the
Secretary's mailing of a final determination not to
abate interest.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If, if the history of this
issue had been such that before the enactment of this
section the courts of appeals were divided or the courts
were divided as to whether or not there was jurisdiction
in the Court of Claims and in the district court, would
your position be different?
MR. MARCUS: No, our position would be the
same. We would first look to the statutory language of
Section 6404(e)(1) and that provision provides that the
Secretary may abate interest when there is an error or
delay committed by an IRS employee in the performance of
a ministerial act, and that "may" language contrasts
with other provisions that have mandatory language that
requires the Secretary to abate. In addition, if you
look at the nature of the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it's, so it's only (h)
that gives any court any jurisdiction at all?
MR. MARCUS: That's correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Even though in our
hypothetical world some courts of general jurisdiction
thought that they did have jurisdiction?
MR. MARCUS: That's correct, Justice
Kennedy. Up until 1986 the IRS didn't even have ability
to abate in these circumstances.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did (h) apply to (e)(2) as
well as to (e)(1)? Does it apply only to discretionary
abatement provisions?
MR. MARCUS: No, it's our position it
applies only to discretionary abatement determinations
by the Secretary. The language -- typically when abuse
of discretion standard is imposed, it presupposes that
the decision being reviewed involves an exercise of
discretion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So what happens with
(e)(2)? You use the pay and sue provisions?
MR. MARCUS: Yes, you could use it, although
it typically comes up when the Government has filed an
action to recover an erroneous refund. It's usually
raised as a defense. But you could bring it that way.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, isn't it an abuse --
isn't it an abuse of discretion for the Secretary to
fail to do what the statute tells him he absolutely
must?
MR. MARCUS: I think as a technical matter,
Justice Kennedy, that's correct. But I don't think
that's the natural way to read the statute, and when the
Congress imposed that abuse of discretion standard it
assumed that the decisions that were being -- that were
subject to review involved the exercise of a discretion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't, I don't even think
it's technically correct. How is it an abuse of
discretion? He has no discretion. He must do it. How
could you say he has abused his discretion? What
discretion?
MR. MARCUS: Well I think some cases --
there is some case law that has said that when there is
an error of law committed by a lower court that can
constitute an abuse of discretion. But in our view
again it's not the natural reading of the standard that
Congress put in. And also, if you look at the
legislative history, Justice Kennedy, you'll see that
Congress was focused on the absence of a judicial remedy
with respect to determinations by the Secretary that
involved an exercise in discretion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But what the cases
said prior to 6404(h) when they asked for interest
abatement was not that we don't have jurisdiction to
consider that claim. They would just say there's no
standard to apply, so it's committed to agency
discretion by law. Then all of a sudden 6404(h) comes
along and gives you a standard, so that removes that
objection. What's wrong with that?
MR. MARCUS: I think that's -- with respect,
I think the Fifth Circuit's reasoning is too clever by
half. The Fifth Circuit basically extracted one piece
of Section 6404(h)'s integrated whole and held that
there now is a refund cause of action that's not subject
to the specific restrictions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's because
of the way that Congress enacted the language. It
doesn't say that the tax court and only the tax court
shall have jurisdiction. It says the tax court shall
have jurisdiction. That is a, in many respects a
preferred forum and they're saying you can bring it
there as well, but it doesn't take away the jurisdiction
that the prior courts had recognized.
MR. MARCUS: Well, I think you need to look
at what the state of the law was when Congress enacted
this provision and think about what Congress would have
wanted to do. If Congress would have wanted to reverse
those decisions that had said there's no cause, no
refund cause of action for interest abatement, they
could have easily referenced the refund statute and said
there is a refund action available. They also could
have specified that the Court of Federal Claims or the
district courts can exercise jurisdiction over interest
abatement issues.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Don't you think it's
kind of strange, though, if you have the interest
abatement is available only for a particular category of
taxpayer and not others?
MR. MARCUS: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you have a net
worth of two million and one dollar you can't get any
interest abatement, but if it's $2 million you can.
MR. MARCUS: I don't think, I don't think
it's anomalous. I think if you consider the concept of
interest under the tax code, the way it works under the
tax code is interest accrues on an unpaid tax liability
from the time the tax is due until the time the tax is
paid. So the amount of underpayment is the amount of
taxpayer is borrowing from the Government. The interest
that accrues on that underpayment is not a penalty; it's
just a charge basically for the time value of money.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right, but you abate
it in some cases, but you don't abate it in the others.
MR. MARCUS: Right. But I think, I think
the idea was that Congress was concerned that some
taxpayers, taxpayers that fall within the net worth
limitations, might be in positions where they are less
positioned to pay the full tax liability up front.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's what I
thought, too. But then your friend explained that in
the initial bill is where the interest is contained in a
lot of these cases and in this case in particular. So
it's not as if you have the opportunity to pay it in
advance to stop the accrual of interest. Just you get
the bill and you find out, you know, you owe a 1,000
dollars and 300 of it is interest.
MR. MARCUS: I don't think that's correct,
Your Honor. The way this is -- the interest that's
abatable is, a taxpayer is in full control of whether
that interest runs or not. If the taxpayer pays his
full tax liability on time, interest doesn't accrue, so
there's no interest to abate.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But he doesn't even know
what his tax liability is, especially in a partnership
situation.
MR. MARCUS: Well, the taxpayer --
JUSTICE SCALIA : He makes the
partnership calculation, it goes to the IRS, and then
they figure out what the tax is. And meanwhile, you
know, the interest is running.
MR. MARCUS: Well, Justice Scalia, first of
all, the taxpayer is in the best position to know what
the tax liability is. If a taxpayer is going to make
certain investments, they should understand what the tax
consequences are.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This is quite a different
argument. You're saying, you know, he should have paid
the full tax in the first place, not he could have paid
the interest that he knew was accruing.
MR. MARCUS: Right. But he could have
prevented that, the abatable interest, from accruing.
This abatable interest doesn't accrue until the taxpayer
receives notice from the IRS that there is a problem
with the return. So the -- in other words, that first
period from the time the underpayment is made until the
IRS notifies the taxpayer, that, that interest is not
subject to abatement. That automatically accrues and
there is no remedy. Congress has created no remedy for
that period, and there's just a period, there's a
provision in section --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I didn't
understand that. Say that again? There's no abatement
for the interest that accrues until you're notified of
what the --
MR. MARCUS: Until you're notified, until
the IRS notifies you that they are looking further at
your return. They might not at that point tell you
precisely how much you owe, but you're on notice that
the IRS is looking into your return further and that you
can at that point make a payment or put down a deposit
that doesn't compromise your ability as a taxpayer to go
into the tax court, but it does stop the accrual of
abatable interest.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you don't know how much
to pay, do you? I mean, when they send you the notice
they don't send a notice that says, we're looking into
this and we think you're going to end up owing $5,000,
do they? They don't give you a figure.
MR. MARCUS: Again, they don't necessarily
tell you exactly how much you owe, but it's the
taxpayers' --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do they name a figure at
all --
MR. MARCUS: They sometimes do.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- when they give you the
initial notice?
MR. MARCUS: They sometimes do, and then at
18 months, at 18 months under subsection (g), under 18
months under a provision that was acted in 1998, the IRS
has to at 18 months tell you how much you owe;
otherwise, the interest cannot continue to accrue after
that 18-month period. But you should -- but it is the
taxpayer's responsibility to know what their tax
liability is.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's true. That's true.
But you can make that argument. That argument, if you
accepted it, would be an argument for having no
amendment to subsection (h) at all.
MR. MARCUS: Right, but that's the idea.
Until 18 -- until 1986 there was no authority at all for
the Secretary to abate, and then Congress gave the
Secretary that authority as a matter of grace in 1986,
to extend this relief to forgive the accrual of
interest. I mean, after this is money --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And the question is, why is
the grace confined to some taxpayers and not to others?
MR. MARCUS: The short answer is because
Congress has said that, said that, and the Congress
decided to impose the net worth limitation.
JUSTICE SOUTER: They've said it if we
accept your view of the exclusivity of the amendment to
(h).
MR. MARCUS: Right. And typically when
Congress imposes restrictions on a remedy this Court
reads that, reads that as an intentional --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, but is there any
other instance in the law? I suppose there probably is,
but what surprised me about that is this: Imagine we
have two citizens and they are identical in every
respect in terms of their claim, they each believe the
government owes them $50,000. They each have
identically strong claims. And Congress passes a law
and says one of you can come into court and the other
can't. Now suppose it said the poor person can't come
into court. Do you think there wouldn't be a
constitutional problem there? Remember, they have the
same claim for the same amount, with the same precise
strength of their argument. But we say rich people can
go in, and we'd say why did you do that? We say poor
people don't have as much stake in society. They don't
have -- now suppose you heard such an argument. How
long would it take you to feel there's a constitutional
problem?
MR. MARCUS: Well, I think there has to be a
rational basis for --
JUSTICE BREYER: No. No. No. The rational
basis is that the poor person doesn't have the stake in
society that a rich one does.
MR. MARCUS: Well, I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's worthless. Okay. Now
I guess, if you can't keep the poor person out for such
a reason then you can't keep the rich person out for
that reason. So you tell me what the rationale is in
keeping the rich person out any more than the poor
person. They have the same claim, same amount, same
cause. The cause, by the way, was that some bureaucrat
in the IRS forgot to send a notice so nobody knew what
was happening. That was the cause. And the reason it
didn't get abated is because a different bureaucrat got
mixed up, okay? Same claims.
MR. MARCUS: Keep in mind, this is -- what
you're talking about is, this is interest that's running
on money that the taxpayer is borrowing from the
Government. This is money that the Government is
legally entitled to as of the date it was originally
due.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah.
MR. MARCUS: And so this is money that the
taxpayer is borrowing. A large net, high net worth
taxpayer can invest that money elsewhere and may well
even make out even better.
JUSTICE BREYER: But at the end of the day,
the claim happens to be interest worth $5,000. The IRS
abused its discretion under the statute in failing to
write a check for $5,000 to both. What we do is we
allow one of them to bring a lawsuit to get the 5,000,
and we say to the other one, you can't bring the lawsuit
to get the 5,000.
Now my question is, what's the basis for
that distinction?
MR. MARCUS: And the rational basis is that
Congress believed that taxpayers of a high net worth,
there would be no hardship, but -- in them not having a
cause of action.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why would there be no
hardship?
MR. MARCUS: Because they can use the money,
invest the money.
JUSTICE BREYER: And so can a poor person.
MR. MARCUS: Well, but they're not as well
positioned as the wealthy taxpayer, so --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The next thing you know,
they will enact a progressive income tax.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: By the way, this has
nothing to do with the progressive income tax. What I
have not seen anywhere is the use of wealth, totally
different from the dollar value of a claim, to shut the
courthouse door. I'm just saying, is there such a case
anywhere, and if there is no such case, then I'd say I
wonder about this assumption. The assumption that the
reason that you cannot keep the courthouse door open to
everyone is because what?
MR. MARCUS: Well, first of all, there are
other examples. There's --
JUSTICE BREYER: What.
MR. MARCUS: This is derived from,
ultimately derived from the Equal Access to Justice Act,
there are attorneys' fees provisions, but also
assistance to taxpayers, and those net worth limitations
apply to --
JUSTICE BREYER: We know, attorneys' fees
you give to poor people more than to rich people. That
makes sense. That has nothing to do with having a
formal rule saying you cannot enter the courthouse.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there a you cannot enter
the courthouse provision here, or is it -- as I
understand your case, it is that it remains
discretionary with the Secretary with respect to people
who have more money, but it is not discretionary with
respect to people who have less money.
MR. MARCUS: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't understand.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So one has a cause of
action and the other doesn't have a cause of action.
And the difference you're making between the two is
you're permitting the Secretary to waive the interest
with respect to the rich. You're requiring him to do it
with respect to the poor. Isn't that the difference?
MR. MARCUS: That's correct. There is an
administrative claim that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Wait. That might be the
answer.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The poor do not have the
incentive or even the ability to defer paying a tax,
where the people that have large bank accounts may, and
investments, may well profit by just paying the interest
to the Government.
MR. MARCUS: That's exactly right. And
Justice Breyer, if you want, if you --
JUSTICE BREYER: Wait. Wait. There are two
separate things. I want to understand this. In other
words, the Secretary does not have the power to abate
the interest in respect to the rich person?
MR. MARCUS: No. He does have the
authority.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's permissive, not
mandatory.
MR. MARCUS: Yeah, the Secretary has the
authority to waive interest.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But he doesn't have --
JUSTICE BREYER: He can do it -- in the
first case with the rich person, he can abuse his
discretion.
MR. MARCUS: With respect to taxpayers who
meet the net worth limitations.
JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, in the one
case Congress has passed a law saying with a poor person
you cannot abuse your discretion, but with a rich person
you can abuse your discretion. That's what the
underlying substantive statute says.
MR. MARCUS: And there's another --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait a minute. They are
not really saying that. They're saying it's totally
within your discretion. You can't possibly abuse your
discretion when you have total discretion. They're just
saying, you know, do it if you want to do it.
MR. MARCUS: That's right. It's a matter of
administrative grace for the Federal taxpayers who
are --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No. The standard of
discretion is the same for the poor and the rich, isn't
it? The only difference is that the poor can get into
court and the rich cannot.
MR. MARCUS: They have an enforceable right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So it's a question of
remedy, not standing.
MR. MARCUS: Right. There's a judicial
remedy in one case and only an administrative remedy in
the other.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is that the poverty line?
MR. MARCUS: And there's another provision
in the tax -- I'm sorry, Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is the net worth of $2
million the poverty line now?
(Laughter.)
MR. MARCUS: Not that I'm aware of.
JUSTICE ALITO: So what is -- so what's the
rationale? This isn't treating the rich and the poor
differently, is it?
MR. MARCUS: It's treating exceedingly high
net worth individuals and corporations differently from
everyone else.
JUSTICE ALITO: Someone with a net worth of
$1.5 million couldn't invest the money in the interim?
MR. MARCUS: They could. Congress chose to
draw the line where it used this provision that was
already in place under the Equal Access to Justice Act.
It referred to that provision --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This was for purposes of
attorneys' fees?
MR. MARCUS: Right, the provision that
applies to attorneys' fees. Congress has also imposed
this provision in a burden shifting provision in the tax
code, Section 7491. If the Court wants to get a better
idea of what Congress's concern for what it called the
average taxpayer, or the smaller taxpayers, it can look
at the legislative history. There was a hearing in
March of 1995 that's cited on page 98 of the
supplemental appendix to the cert petition, and that was
the Court of Federal Claims decision. It's footnote 19.
It refers to a hearing in March 1995. And if you read
through that, you can see where that concern for the --
for average taxpayers and lower net worth taxpayers came
from.
Nothing in Section 6404(h) gives rise to an
inference that Congress intended to establish additional
remedies in the district court and Court of Federal
Claims. To the contrary, this Court has consistently
applied the rule that when Congress creates a specific
remedy, it intends that remedy to be exclusive. That
rule is fully applicable here. Otherwise, the specific
restrictions Congress imposed on the remedy could be
defeated by bringing the claim in a different forum.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wouldn't it have been
simpler if Congress just said the tax court shall have
exclusive jurisdiction, instead of just saying
jurisdiction?
MR. MARCUS: That might have made it
simpler, Justice Ginsburg, but it accomplished the same
result by imposing the specific restrictions that it
did. And again, it would have -- there's another --
there are two other provisions in the tax code where
Congress -- where the tax court effectively has -- one
of the provisions where the tax court has exclusive
jurisdiction under Section 6330(d), where also it
doesn't specify that -- the Congress didn't specify the
tax court has exclusive jurisdiction but it does. And
there's another case where there's an administrative
determination, it doesn't go to the underlying
substantive tax liability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The difference --
the difference is that the district court, the claims
court already has jurisdiction for pay and sue claims,
if you pay the IRS you can sue to get a refund. And so
this isn't as if we're looking at something that says
the tax court has jurisdiction and trying to use that as
a wedge to get other jurisdiction. There's already a
grant of jurisdiction. The problem was, there was no
standard of review for these may abate claims, and all
of a sudden we find in this provision there is a
standard of review, it's abuse of discretion, and that
fills the void. Why can't they just use that?
MR. MARCUS: Well, again, Mr. Chief Justice,
I don't think it was just a matter of not being a
standard of review. I think it was a matter of just
being, of intent by Congress to have this just be a
matter of administrative grace. And again, if you
contrast the language of the different --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I thought what
you had argued before when people would try to seek this
release was that there's no standard of review to hold
the Secretary's exercise of discretion up against.
MR. MARCUS: I think that was one of the
reasons that the Government cited, but I think there was
others as well.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But one thing you
never said was that there was no jurisdiction, because
there is jurisdiction in the district court. If you've
paid money to the IRS and you want it back, you can
bring a refund action.
MR. MARCUS: If you have a legal entitlement
to it, and the point is you didn't have a legal
entitlement to it before. That's what the courts held,
and Congress responded to that, not by saying you do
have a legally entitlement to this through a refund
action, which they easily could have said if they wanted
to reject those prior decisions, but instead they
created a limited remedy in the tax court. I don't see
how you can read that limited remedy in the tax court to
give rise to a broader remedy that doesn't have those
restrictions that Congress imposed on the tax court
remedy.
So it should be -- I think 6404(h) should be
read as an integrated whole and you can't just extract
one piece and then bring that over, as the Fifth Circuit
said, to apply to a refund action. I don't think that's
the proper way to interpret the.
JUSTICE BREYER: I now think maybe I don't
agree on this point that there are different standards,
because it does say in this abuse of discretion. And
indeed that's a normal administrative standard, and so
as you read this you would think that the IRS does not
have any legal power substantively to abuse its
discretion in refusing to bring an abasement in refusing
to bring an abatement -- excuse me, to abate the
interest. So far do you agree?
MR. MARCUS: I'm sorry, Justice Breyer?
That Congress --
JUSTICE BREYER: Once they make clear that
the standard is abuse of discretion, it only makes clear
what's there in the law anyway, that administrative
authorities do not have the authority to abuse their
discretion. Now, sometimes we don't review that in the
courts. That doesn't make it legal. It just means you
can't catch them out in court.
MR. MARCUS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: So there's a standard that
applies to everybody. Then all that this does, to go
back to it is it closes the courthouse door. Now I want
to know what your rationale was for doing that? It had
nothing to do with the standards that applied. It has
to have something to do with why one class of people by
wealth are kept out of court. I think if it were the
other way around it wouldn't last for three seconds, and
the only reason maybe I don't think about it as hard
this way because I think, well, privilege is involved,
etcetera. But when you force me to think about it, I
want to know what the reason so.
MR. MARCUS: Well, I don't think it's right
to characterize it as the closing of the courthouse
door. Congress opened the courthouse door in a limited
fashioning in 1996. That's what happened. There was no
courthouse door opened in --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'll accept that
characterization. Now you give me the reason why we've
opened the courthouse door to individuals who are alike
in every respect but for their net worth? Now give me
that, the same reason? I always want to know what the
specific reason is, the specific rationale and. I'm not
saying there isn't one. I just want to know what it is.
MR. MARCUS: Justice Breyer, I don't know if
I can give you a better one than I gave before. But
it's that high net worth taxpayers are better positioned
to pay their full tax liability up front and to handle
the accumulation of interest in the event that there is
some delay in the processing of their return.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: They're exactly alike but
for their ability to earn interest in different ways.
MR. MARCUS: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I would not concede, as
you seem to have, that the consequence of (h) is simply
to open the door. I think the category of decisions
that are committed to agency discretion by law within
the meaning of the APA are agency decisions as to which
the term "abuse of discretion" makes no sense. There's
no such thing. It is totally committed to agency
discretion. It's only other decisions that are not
committed to agency discretion by law where you -- where
the discretion can be abused. If you look at it that
way, it isn't a matter of closing the door to one
category and opening it to another; it's a matter of
different substantive laws applying to the two, to the
two classes. Anyway, I choose to look at it that way.
You can talk --
MR. MARCUS: That's a fine way of looking at
it, Justice Scalia. The other, the other anomaly the
Fifth Circuit identified was the taxpayer, the taxpayer
seeking a refund having to split off his claims. This
too is not a significant anomaly. The vast majority of
taxpayers seek redetermination of their tax liability in
the tax court and those taxpayers must split their
claims because the interest abatement claim doesn't
ripen until the taxpayer's underlying liability has been
assessed. Moreover, the interest abatement question is
distinct from the taxpayer's underlying liability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can they bring it as
additional claim after they get the final determination?
They start a whole separate action for interest
abatement?
MR. MARCUS: That's -- if they, if they, if
they got relief on their refund claim, if they prevail
on their refund claim there would be no need to do that.
The interest would automatically abate. But if they
were unsuccessful they could still pursue an interest
abatement on the grounds that the IRS committed an error
in delay in performing a material act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it part of the
same proceeding or is it a separate proceeding?
MR. MARCUS: Well, it would be, it would be
a proceeding that would follow the proceeding on the
underlying liability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're making the
claim that it's no big deal that you have to go to the
district court to get your refund and then go to the tax
court to get the interest abatement, which does seem
like a big deal to me. And you say, well, in the tax
court you have to do it separately, too.
MR. MARCUS: It's not as inconvenient --
well, it, it may be inconvenient but it's a necessary
consequence of the exclusive review scheme the Congress
set up. And there is no reason -- to take that policy
concern and have that trump the statutory language and
the regime that Congress clearly established.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And there is no linkage
between the two, with, it's one thing to split a claim
when they have common elements, but the interest
abatement has nothing to do with the substantive
underlying -- substantive liability?
MR. MARCUS: That's correct, Justice
Ginsburg. It involves questions about administrative
problems that might arise during the processing of the
taxpayer's case. A ministerial act, the failure to
transfer a file when a taxpayer moves from one
jurisdiction to another, or after, or notice of
deficiency if the agent just delays in issuing the
notice because he forgot about it and it just sat on his
desk for a couple of days. Those are the kinds of
issues that, that come up in interest abatement
actions.
If the Court has no further questions the
court of appeals should be affirmed. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you
Mr. Marcus.
Mr. Redding, you have four minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS E. REDDING,
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS
MR. REDDING: If I may, there are a couple
of brief points I would like to make. In the
legislative history of the 6404(h) it concludes with the
statement that no inference should be made from that
legislation as to other courts' jurisdiction. I think
that should be taken very seriously. As to the claims
court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Who said that?
MR. REDDING: That's in a House committee
report, Your Honor. As to claim splitting, it is
actually a horrendous problem when you're talking
especially about partnership-related cases. I will note
that there are several hundred cases below waiting the
outcome of this case. As in the Cramer and Weiner
opinions that came out of the Fifth Circuit, the Court
can note that there are claims for interest abatement,
abatement not under 6404, but that interest was
overcharged by applying the penalty rate of interest.
There is a refund claim for the penalty portion of the
interest.
There is also a refund claim that the tax
was assessed outside the statute of limitations; that's
clearly a refund claim. None of those claims would be
encompassed under 6404(h). These taxpayers would have
had to have completely split their claims, asked for an
interest abatement in the tax court for abuse of
discretion on 6404(e)(1).
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the point that
Mr. Marcus just made, that the issue is discrete on
interest abatement, and it involves mishandling within
the Internal Revenue processing, and it's not like other
questions that have to do with the -- with the
intricacies of the Internal Revenue Code --
MR. REDDING: That's only relatively true to
6404(e)(1), Your Honor. But I will note that under
6404(a), where cases are now coming out of the tax court
for the first time, because it now has jurisdiction
under (h), it provides authority for the Commissioner to
abate interest where the IRS has erroneously or
illegally assessed the tax liability after the statute
of limitations runs or whether it's simply an erroneous
assessment. Those claims have nothing to do with
discretion, and they are not really just ancillary to
the tax liability; they arise out of the substantive
challenge to the liability itself. The Woodrall case
that has come out, which is the, I think is the first of
the 6404(a) cases, was an assertion that the
interest had been charged after the tax had been paid.
Now that's not a discretionary abatement; that's an
illegal assessment of interest and that's a 6404(h)
claim now.
Previously it would have been strictly a
refund claim under 16 -- under 1346.
I would also note that in terms of the being
able to pay it to cut off the interest accrual, that in
these cases, these cases that are before the Court, the
F quality -- the document the Government first sent out
proposing adjustments to the partnership level, if you
had computed the liability based on what the
Government's position was, the ultimate tax liability
including interest to any point in time would have been
at least three times the amount that results from the
tax court decision.
It's just ludicrous to say that the taxpayer
should be expected to take whatever the Government's
proposed adjustments are, compute what his maximum
liability may be, and pay it in advance or post a bond
in advance in order to cut off the interest accrual.
That argument just doesn't -- in my mind does not fly,
Your Honor.
This, this Court in Bob Jones University did
address the pay and sue versus prepayment jurisdiction
issue in terms of constitutionality and due process.
And, and basically said that as long as there is a pay
and sue remedy available, the taxpayer has no due
process rights to a prepayment remedy, but that the
Court might have come down differently had there been no
remedy available in terms of pay and sue.
I would also note that both the tax court,
the district courts, the Court of Federal Claims and the
appellate courts have long reviewed other discretionary
acts within the tax code by the Commissioner where no
standard is set forth on an abuse of discretion
standard, such as the authorization of the Commissioner
to abate certain penalties where the taxpayer has sought
an independent appraisal on the overvaluation penalty
under 6659. Those cases have been reviewed for years by
the tax court and by the district courts in refund cases
on an abuse of discretion standard. It is the Federal
common law standard for reviewing an abuse of
discretion.
The determinations in Horton and Selman
Holmes are unique in holding that it's totally
discretionary.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 1:56 p.m., the case in the
above-titled matter was submitted.)
abuse 14:4,7,19 15:24 23:18 12:4 2:2,5,8 3:3,6
15:24 16:9,18 27:14,16 34:24 33:2,20 50:21 29:22 31:21,21
14:18 25:2,12,13,19 42:18 43:3 analyzed 17:19 48:8 51:3
25:23 26:5 46:10 ancillary 50:2 arrival 15:23
37:19,25 38:1 actions 23:5 anomalous 28:4 asked 10:8
23:22 38:6 41:18 48:1 anomaly 45:23 21:19 26:13
43:7,10,17,19 acts 51:16 46:1 49:9
29:7 45:12 49:10 actual 7:10 answer 32:7 assertion 50:6
37:8 51:17,23,24 adding 15:8 36:23 assessed 46:6
43:12 abused 25:25 addition 24:11 anyplace 17:6 49:6,24
49:23 34:14 45:16 additional 7:2 anyway 43:18 assessment
abusive 14:12 40:8 46:9 45:20 12:13,17 21:25
44:16 14:1 APAA 16:9 assistance 35:25
5:2 6:8 31:22 51:6 apologize 9:1,15 assumed 25:20
8:5,7 access 4:16,21 addressing 11:6 18:5 assumption 11:2
10:1 6:15 8:6 9:22 adjustments appeals 23:4,9 11:21 35:16,16
10:22 35:23 21:4 50:17,25 23:25 48:3 attorneys 35:24
15:3 39:14 administrative appear 6:19 36:2 39:17,19
20:24 accomplished 18:11 36:21 APPEARAN... authorities
40:21 38:10,20 41:5 1:14 43:19
24:24 accounts 37:1 41:24 43:8,18 appears 6:22 authority 5:3
26:14 accrual 20:14 47:17 appellate 51:15 10:10 11:13
28:24 30:22 adopted 12:20 appendix 8:14 31:25 32:2
30:7,12 32:3 50:14 advance 28:24 9:2,10,15 40:1 37:11,16 43:19
46:4,6 51:2 51:1,2 applicable 5:2 49:22
47:2 accrue 29:6 30:2 affirmed 48:3 40:13 authorization
48:25 31:16 afford 5:11 applied 16:3 51:18
accrues 28:6,10 10:17 40:11 44:3 authorized
30:7,13 agency 26:16 applies 6:8 11:7 19:12
24:20 21:22 29:24 agent 47:22 19:9 25:1 30:7 46:15
36:25 30:1 agree 17:10 19:1 39:19 43:25 availability 4:12
accumulation 43:6,13 apply 6:6 13:14 10:15 11:18
22:1 act 18:11 24:9 alike 44:18 45:4 16:25 18:17 17:6 27:16,22
35:23 39:14 Alito 38:22,24 24:22,23 26:16 51:9,12
acted 11:21 allow 34:16 applying 45:19 40:5
action 5:15 7:8 13:6 appraisal 51:20 5:9
category 27:22 cited 39:25 42:6 50:5 51:11
18:3 25:11 27:6 12:19 15:15,18 9:24 10:2 11:3 coming 6:7
42:11 34:16,17 42:12 15:24 26:24 14:10 16:24 49:20
43:2,11,12 27:13,14 33:21 17:5 23:20 Commissioner
5:10 bringing 5:15 certain 22:9 40:15 46:4,9 committed 24:8
22:3 brought 7:24 50:4 49:3,5,7 50:10 committee 11:5
28:11 13:1,15,17 challenging 23:6 50:12 12:1 48:18
23:18 characterizati... claimed 15:13 common 16:8,18
34:19 bureaucrat characterize 5:20 6:11 9:20 compared 7:22
33:21,24 44:12 11:8,12 13:10 complained
3:7 C charged 50:7 24:2 27:17 complementary
48:9 c 2:1 3:1 19:11 check 9:5 12:16 32:22 33:25 4:13
11:15,24 29:13 Chief 3:3,8 4:8 41:10,16 45:25 6:12,16 7:3 8:8
15:25 call 6:21,21 5:18 7:7,15 9:8 46:4 48:15,25 49:9
22:3,4,6 called 39:22 13:3 15:12,20 49:7,9 50:1 compromise
32:20 canon 6:21 16:12 20:8,12 51:14 30:21
44:24,25 14:22 19:16 27:25 28:12,19 clearly 8:2 13:16 computed 50:18
28:21 26:3 28:22 48:4 52:5 clever 26:21 concern 39:22
35:14,15 36:8 choose 45:20 closes 44:1 40:4 47:9
cases 7:16,19,21 43:2 45:24 19:3 20:1 conflict 6:20
32:16 13:19 14:22 circuits 3:14 28:5,6 39:21 4:25 10:9,13
34:7,12 15:21 19:12,21 Circuit's 3:10 40:24 49:17 11:1,13,21
35:4,10 26:2,12 28:13 17:9 26:21 51:16 12:5 16:4,6
36:2,13 28:22 48:21,22 circumstances collection 5:17 17:2,10 22:7
37:5,6 49:20 50:6,15 24:21 10:20,23 23:11 25:19
50:15 51:21,22 cite 7:16 11:16 come 15:4 18:3 26:7,9 27:2,10
28:15 correctly 23:4 27:8,18 42:15 35:23 34:20
32:1,8,8 Counsel 52:5 43:21 48:14 desk 47:24 district 3:12 4:2
34:22 couple 47:24 51:14,15,22 determination 5:4 6:10 7:5
39:12,19 48:10 Court's 23:14 23:21 41:6 11:12 13:10
course 20:8 21:2 covered 19:5 46:9 15:7,13 16:7
41:3,23 21:23 Cramer 48:23 determinations 20:13 24:2
43:15 court 1:1,12 3:9 create 5:24 6:13 21:6 23:6 25:1 27:18 40:9
47:7,10 3:12,12,20,21 16:20 26:10 52:1 41:9 42:10
4:21 5:1,3,4,8 23:11 30:8 18:15 divided 23:25
47:7 6:10,10,17,17 creates 14:9 36:16,19 38:14 doctrine 6:21
9:19 10:1,10 creating 12:2 different 15:2 doing 12:5 44:2
12:2 13:10,10 cut 10:2 22:1 33:24 35:13 35:13
15:6,7,9,13 43:6 45:5,19 29:1
6:14 17:6,12,23 d 3:1 19:11 39:8 51:11 35:14,17 44:1
7:3 17:24 18:14 19:2,25 date 34:5 disagree 12:22 44:13,13,15,18
16:10 21:21,23 22:8 days 23:20 discretion 14:4 draw 39:13
22:11,19 23:3 47:24 14:7,13,19,24 duality 4:6
27:3,3,4,17 decision 11:11 18:10,13,16,20 D.C 1:8,18
32:25 38:15 50:22 25:21,24,24,25 E
22:11 50:22 51:5,11 46:18 51:25 13:22 14:17,18
39:8 35:14,17 36:5 denied 8:8 12:14 17:1 24:23 18:17,18,20
16:17 44:13,15,18 Department 50:8 51:15 24:23 25:7
20:17 courts 4:2 5:4 1:18 52:3 48:8
25:17 7:5 8:6 11:12 departure 22:15 dispute 22:13 earn 45:5
29:2 15:7 16:22 deposit 30:20 distinct 46:7 easily 27:15
47:16 23:25,25 24:17 derived 35:22 distinction 17:2 42:18
27:2 exceedingly 47:19 formation 5:8 26:18 40:7
39:7 fair 11:20 forth 51:17 go 9:17 10:1,2,4
23:24 9:21 20:6 23:5 far 4:5 13:23 forum 4:12 5:9 30:21 33:4
41:4 47:7 fashioning 9:21 10:19 46:25 47:1
32:11 Federal 3:10,12 23:13 27:6 going 5:24 16:4
43:12 17:19 27:17 forums 4:7 29:18 31:2
existed 11:18 39:17,19 free 21:8 government
10:16 26:21,22 43:2 9:14 28:18 21:14 25:9
25:10 17:24 22:15 figure 29:14 full 4:15 10:18 34:4,4 37:3
exists 15:11 31:3,7 28:18 29:4,6 42:6 50:16
expanding filed 25:9 fully 40:13 14:21 50:19,24
expected 50:24 fills 41:19 20:9 32:6 38:10
48:21 explained 28:20 find 19:16 28:25 19:25 41:15
3:19 fine 45:22 g 3:1 31:13 grasp 17:2
6:4 8:2 extension 7:1 35:19 37:19 24:17 46:17
19:23 extent 18:10 49:21 50:5,16 generally 4:22 guess 33:16
47:10 extract 43:1 five 15:2 10:17,25
15:19 14:14 15:25 40:22 28:24 29:1,3,5 JONATHAN
24:13 16:17 17:9,18 incentive 36:25 29:6,7,15,24 1:17 2:6 22:25
31:23 18:5,22 19:1 includes 4:19 30:1,2,6,13,23 Jones 51:5
45:8 19:15,18,20,22 21:17 31:16 32:4 judicial 15:22
20:16,22 21:18 including 50:20 34:2,13 36:17 26:9 38:19
48:20 47:5,6 47:25 48:25 8:5 10:14 12:3
11:17 52:1 51:20 49:23 50:7,9 15:5,6,11 16:1
48:18 individual 10:5 interestingly 17:22 18:15
35:1 hypothetical 44:18 Internal 3:13 23:5,17 24:1
I initial 21:16 interpretation 27:18 40:18,19
39:22 instance 17:25 intricacies 49:17 41:14,15 42:9
32:22 integrated 26:23 investments 51:6
illegal 50:9 intend 3:18 16:6 involved 21:25 3:8 4:8,23 5:18
44:25 immediate 8:15 intends 40:12 involves 25:4 9:12,17,24
immunity 23:10 intentional 20:25 24:8,20 13:3,18,23
23:7,23 impediment 32:15 29:13 30:3,6 14:3,6,11,16
39:24 7:25 interest 3:13 4:9 30:16,19 31:14 15:12,20 16:12
implemented 4:11 5:16 7:8 33:22 34:13 16:21 17:13,16
impliedly 18:7 18:16 19:6 49:13 51:7 22:22 23:2,23
7:12,18 imposed 25:3,19 22:1 23:6,8,13 47:25 25:6,12,17,22
9:1,13,16 39:19 40:14 23:16,18,22 issuing 47:22 26:8,12 27:1
10:3,12 42:23 24:7 26:13 27:20,25 28:12
12:21 imposes 32:14 27:14,18,21 J 28:19 29:8,12
14:5,8 imposing 5:14 28:2,5,6,9,21 JOHN 1:3 29:16,21 30:11
31:7,10 24:10 25:2 49:6,25 31:12,24 32:7 49:14
32:5,10 27:2 41:25 limited 5:5 32:13 33:9,14 mixed 33:25
33:11,15 47:9 42:20,21 44:1334:1,8,21 35:2 Monday 1:9
large 34:9 37:1 line 38:22 39:1 35:5,19,22 money 20:20
largely 11:4 39:13 36:12,20 37:4 28:11 32:4
36:2,6 larger 5:11,19 linkage 47:11 37:10,15,21 34:3,4,8,10
6:2,13 10:24 litigation 4:4 38:3,9,16,19 35:2,3 36:10
14:2 logic 5:24 38:23 39:3,7 36:11 39:11
Laughter 8:20 logical 10:23 39:12,18 40:20 42:11
8:25 18:25 long 15:10 33:7 41:20 42:5,13 months 31:13,13
39:4 35:9 39:2 51:8,15 43:14,23 44:11 31:14,15
law 14:23 16:9 long-established 44:23 45:6,22 moves 47:20
41:8 16:18,25 18:12 15:4 46:12,21 47:5
42:1,8 26:3,4,17 long-standing 47:16 48:5 N
27:10 32:17,22 7:4 49:13 N 2:1,1 3:1
45:4 37:24 43:18 look 6:23 16:8,9material 46:18 name 31:7
46:8 45:10,15 51:24 16:12 24:5,12materials 8:10 natural 25:18
47:11 laws 45:19 26:7 27:9 8:22 12:10 26:6
48:4,17 lawsuit 34:16,17 39:23 45:16,20
52:5 legal 42:13,14 looking 9:9 20:5 25:16 24:12
legally 34:5 41:12 45:22 41:21,22,24 necessary 47:6
lot 28:22 45:17,18 52:8 necessity 19:24
35:17 legislative 11:5 ludicrous 50:23 50:25 net 4:19 5:2,5
23:23 48:12 mailing 23:21 30:25 32:4 27:25 28:16
level 21:2,6,7,12 major 22:15 meaning 6:17 32:9 34:9,9,22
26:8 50:17 majority 46:1 45:11 35:25 37:22
45:4 liability 10:18 making 36:16 means 6:1 43:21 38:25 39:8,10
45:1 46:2,5,7 37:14 met 12:24,25 normal 7:14
29:8,15 49:24 50:3,4 40:3 10:6 12:6,6 normally 15:11
30:24 50:18,19 51:1 Marcus 1:17 2:6 16:16 28:1,2 note 6:6 12:4
35:7 limit 3:19 10:9 22:24,25 23:2 39:1,11 19:2 48:21,25
38:8 44:2 10:11,13 14:1 24:4,15,19,25 mind 34:1 51:3 49:19 50:13
limitation 4:19 25:8,16 26:2 ministerial 24:9 51:13
32:9 26:20 27:9,24 47:19 notice 21:4,8
24:5,9
11:10 39:25 46:18 15:6 proceeding
30:5,9,9 31:17 39:1 proceedings
48:21 Petitioner 1:16 5:13,25 6:15 proposing 50:17
pattern 4:6 5:11 Petitioner's 12:3 15:5,8 provide 5:8 15:3
10:15,17,24 14:13 23:15 25:3 19:3,4 24:6
20:7,10 21:25 plan 22:17 prevail 46:13 31:14 36:7
22:25 25:7 28:18,23 point 4:24 30:17 prevented 30:1 39:18,20,20
45:1 50:14 43:6 49:12 13:16 50:11 provisions 6:11
paying 20:13 points 48:11 3:15 13:13 14:25 15:1
11:22 30:20 33:12,16,19 14:2 15:20 40:24 41:1
peculiarly 17:5 36:24 37:24 27:8 42:19 purposes 39:16
49:2,3 51:20 position 6:3 24:3 problem 30:3 put 6:3 26:7
30:18 people 5:1 9:19 50:19 48:20 p.m 1:13 3:2
10:10 33:3,5 positioned 28:18 problems 47:18 52:7
18:8,19 9:13,23 10:3 15:9 16:24 Respondent rights 12:7
32:5 10:12 11:4,15 17:6,23 32:3 1:19 2:7 23:1 51:10
38:17 11:24 12:21 46:13 response 7:16 ripen 46:5
13:11,22,25 relieved 21:19 responsibility rise 40:7 42:22
48:2 15:16,25 16:17 remaining 22:20 rest 12:3 4:8 5:18 7:7,15
17:8,15,18 48:7 restricted 5:1 9:8 13:3 15:12
remedy 4:22 10:21 21:16,20 22:22
34:21 3:21 9:15 38:20 40:12,12 result 23:14 rule 36:5 40:11
44:2,21 referenced 42:22,24 51:9 results 50:21 ruling 20:2
40:3 referred 12:1 Remember 33:1 30:19 45:3 34:2
43:1,9 39:15 removes 26:18 Revenue 3:13 runs 29:5 49:25
26:6 reflect 20:22 13:12,21 15:10 reverse 27:12 S
20:14 7:14,14,24 8:1 report 11:5 12:1 19:6,8,8 23:8 saying 5:24 13:4
38:5 9:5 12:16 13:1 48:19 23:13,16 25:21 13:5 16:13
14:18 15:6,10 requested 20:24 41:16,18,22 27:6 29:22
26:24 27:14,15 12:24,25 47:7 37:24 38:5,5,8
44:7,10 27:16 41:11 requires 24:11 reviewed 25:4 40:18 42:16
42:12,17 43:3 requiring 36:18 51:15,21 44:22
45:25 46:13,14 reserve 22:20 reviewing 6:20 says 9:4 12:12
50:12 51:22 resolving 6:1 rich 33:3,13,17 16:4 18:14,17
48:8 regard 16:3 20:3 12:16,19 20:24 38:13,15 39:5 32:23 38:2
3:5,6,8 relatively 49:18 12:22 31:24 32:13 18:6,23 19:10
5:6,22 release 42:3 respects 27:5 37:4 38:9,16 19:17,19 24:22
8:13 relevant 12:3 responded 38:19 39:18 25:6,22 29:8
46:10,20 specifically 3:24 25:21 26:24 T 2:1,1
35:7 separately 47:4 11:8 30:7 take 18:17 27:7
37:13 seriously 48:15 specified 27:17 submit 19:22 33:7 47:8
38:4 Service 3:14 specify 41:3,3 submitted 52:6 50:24
48:17 22:13 split 45:25 46:3 52:8 taken 48:15
18:18,19 short 5:14 32:7 14:9,15,16,20 14:24,25 15:1 3:23,25 4:3,4
24:7,11 shut 35:13 16:2,5,5,10,13 15:2,19 4:21,25 5:2,8
26:10 significant 46:1 16:18,19 19:8 substantive 38:2 5:12,15,17,20
36:9,17 simple 23:12 19:9 25:3,19 41:7 45:19 6:17 7:1,3,6
simpler 40:17 26:6,16,18 47:14,15 50:3 9:19 10:1,20
23:21 simply 3:10 9:15 41:22 42:3 43:10 14:9 15:5,9
22:6,7,7 45:8 43:8,17,24 subtle 17:2 16:4,15 17:6
4:18 Sir 9:7 standards 43:6 41:17 19:25 20:1,1,5
6:9 7:22 situation 21:21 44:3 sue 4:1,14 5:12 21:5,21,23
8:11,15 29:10 standing 38:18 6:2,5 7:4,10 22:8,11 23:5
12:4 small 6:15 8:7 start 23:15 10:15,18,24 23:17 27:3,3,4
23:7,16 14:1 46:10 15:11 19:13,23 28:5,6,6,7,7,18
24:6 smaller 4:14 state 3:19 27:10 20:7,10,10 29:6,9,14,18
30:10 5:12,25 10:14 statement 48:13 22:16 25:7 29:19,23 30:22
40:7 39:23 States 1:1,6,12 41:10,11 51:6 31:18 35:8,11
society 33:5,13 3:4 17:22 51:9,12 36:25 38:24
22:14 sorry 8:18 14:5 23:14,16 25:14 suit 13:1 41:13 42:20,21
40:4 17:19 38:24 25:18 27:15 suits 13:23 42:23 45:1
43:14 34:14 38:2 summarized 46:2,3 47:1,3
52:1 sovereign 23:9 stop 28:24 30:22 suppose 32:17 6:15 8:5,7 10:5
31:1 special 5:24 strength 33:3 sure 8:24 13:3 21:3,8 27:23
10:13,21 strictly 50:11 18:6 28:9 29:4,5,11
36:4 11:16 19:25 structure 17:11 system 4:25 15:8 30:6,21 34:3,9
23:10 26:25 22:15 23:7 systems 16:11 34:10 35:6
48:14 50:5 18:21 29:19 42:18 X
6:13 2:3,9 3:6 48:8 37:7 Washington 1:8
thought 9:18 unique 52:2 1:18 Y
28:16,16 11:1 15:20 United 1:1,6,12 way 4:18 15:9 Yeah 8:15 32:16
32:6 17:14,16 18:24 3:4 17:22 17:14,17 21:12 34:7 37:15
35:25 24:18 28:20 University 51:5 25:11,18 27:2 years 20:25
38:10 42:1 unnecessary 28:5 29:3 22:18 51:21
40:5,5 three 44:6 50:21 3:22 33:21 35:10
46:2,3 time 20:4,23 unpaid 28:6 43:4 44:6,8 $
21:3,24 22:20 unsuccessful 45:17,20,22 $1.5 39:11
46:5,7 30:5 49:21 use 19:13 25:7,8 wealth 35:12 12:6 28:2
50:20 35:2,12 41:13 44:5 38:25
totally 16:25 UX 1:3 wealthy 35:6 $50,000 32:21
33:18 45:13 52:2 V Weiner 48:23
51:7,12 true 31:20,20 versus 19:23 31:1 41:12 1 8:10,16 9:9,11
48:3,4 trying 13:12 17:10 26:5 Woodrall 50:4 18:17 19:19
41:13 32:11 words 30:4 37:8 24:23
45:13 36:16 37:6 virtually 21:12 world 24:17 1:00 1:13 3:2
40:24 45:19,20 void 41:19 worth 4:20 5:2,5 1:56 52:7
14:20 32:13 W 28:1,16 32:9 18 31:13,13,13
22:4 Wait 36:22 37:6 34:9,13,22 31:15,25
U 37:6 38:4 35:25 37:22 18-month 31:17
ultimate 50:19 waiting 48:22 38:25 39:8,10 180 23:20
ultimately 35:23 waive 36:17 40:5 44:19,25 19 40:2
underlying 38:2 37:16 worthless 33:15 1986 24:20
31:2 41:6 46:5,7,23 walk 17:3 wouldn't 9:21 31:25 32:2
33:9 47:15 want 4:25 5:19 22:1 32:25 1995 39:25 40:3
42:5 underpayment 10:9 16:12,14 40:16 44:6 1996 44:14
43:3,5 28:8,10 30:5 37:5,7 38:8 write 34:15 1998 31:14
44:5,7,8,9 understand 5:23 42:11 44:1,10 wrong 3:11 9:6
2
45:9 16:23 17:8 14:13 26:19
12:9,10 6406(h) 3:16
6659 51:21
7
18:3 7442 3:22
7491 39:21
24:22
9
1:9 98 39:25
2:7
1:9
2:4
29:1
9:10
2:10
34:16,18
41:2
6:9 8:13
14:13
15:1,2
19:7,7
19:3
50:6
19:2
6:7
23:7
49:11,19
7:23
3:11,16
4:18 6:6,8
8:4 12:22
20:3
26:13,17
42:25
49:8
26:23
15:23
