IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF HOME :
BUILDERS, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 06-340
DEFENDERS OF WILDLIFE, ET AL.; :
and :
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-549
DEFENDERS OF WILDLIFE, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 17, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:18 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
ERIC R. GLITZENSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ERIC R. GLITZENSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioners 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:18 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in 06-340, National Association of Home
Builders versus Defenders of Wildlife, and 06-549,
Environmental Protection Agency versus Defenders of
Wildlife.
Mr. Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Section 402(b) of the Clean Water Act
provides that the Environmental Protection Agency shall
approve an application by a State to administer its own
NPDES program unless EPA finds that the state's program
does not satisfy nine criteria that are addressed to
whether the State has the legal authority under State
law to carry forward with the program.
There's no dispute in this case that
Arizona's program satisfies those criteria. The Ninth
Circuit nonetheless set aside EPA's approval of
Arizona's program. The Ninth Circuit held that EPA
could not approve Arizona's application unless it first
insured that there would be in place under Arizona's
administration protections equivalent to those that
would be applicable under Section 7 of the Endangered
Species Act when EPA itself issues permits. That
holding is inconsistent not only with Section 402(b)'s
mandatory directive, it's also inconsistent with Section
7 of the ESA itself.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do we take the case and --
I'll ask the same question to your colleagues from the
other side -- on the assumption that if the nine -- the
factors in the statutes are met, that EPA has no
discretion to withhold the transfer?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. That is our position,
and that I think is clear from Section 402(b). It says
that the administrator shall approve unless he finds
that the state legal authority criteria are not
satisfied. I should also point out that that's
reinforced by 33 U.S.C. 1251(b), which expresses a
strong preference for State protection of waters and in
particular states that it's the policy of Congress that
the states administer the NPDES program.
JUSTICE STEVENS: How long has that been the
government's -- the EPA position? How long has that
been the EPA's interpretation of the statute?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, until 1993 when the
vast majority -- by the time -- by that time the vast
majority of transfers or approvals had already taken
place. There had never been consultation, at least that
we're aware of under Section 7 of the Endangered Species
Act. EPA did consult with the wildlife agencies on six
programs but after the Fifth Circuit -- from then until
-- until this one, but after the Fifth Circuit's
decision in the American Forestry case, EPA never tried
to impose any obligations on a State under Section 7 of
the Endangered Species Act.
What it did is, EPA and the Fish and
Wildlife Service worked out between themselves certain
arrangements by which EPA would look at endangered
species considerations, but it never conditioned the
approval of a State program after the Louisiana program
struck down in the American Forestry decision in 1998,
on the states having in place certain protections. And
in fact, I think EPA would not characterize what it did
even in the Louisiana programs as the sort of condition
that the Fifth Circuit understood.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Has that always been the
EPA's position? Because there's an allegation in one of
the briefs that you changed your position in this Court,
to change the position you took even in the lower courts
at issue. Is that --
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I'm -- there may be two
different things that, referring to it. Section 7
imposes an obligation on Federal agencies in their own
actions not to jeopardize -- or to ensure that their
actions are not likely to jeopardize a species.
Ancillary to that, there is an obligation on Federal
agencies to consult with the fish and wildlife agencies.
As to the consultation obligation, as I mentioned, EPA
has engaged in consultation from 1993 until --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But your position was they
didn't have to?
MR. KNEEDLER: Our position now is that it
did not have to, but -- and more fundamentally our
position is that because the transfer or the approval of
the State application is mandatory if these nine legal
authority criteria are satisfied, EPA could not withhold
approval of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your position is
the consultation is a waste of time?
MR. KNEEDLER: Basically, yes. If in the
end EPA could not disapprove the State's application,
and since consultation is ancillary to the substantive
obligation not to jeopardize --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't there a difference
between denying the application because the Endangered
Species Act hasn't been attended to adequately, and
saying you meet the nine criteria, you're going to get
your application. But then, so it's not just automatic
that the thing becomes the State's domain rather than
the Federal. But isn't there something rather detailed
called a memorandum of agreement that's worked out, and
couldn't the Endangered Species Act concerns be
accommodated that way instead of saying one statute is
out the window, even though EPA in a number of states
has made an accommodation.
Why couldn't the Endangered Species Act
concerns be reflected in that memorandum of agreement?
MR. KNEEDLER: The memorandum, the
memorandum of agreement, is called for under EPA's
regulations as really a procedural mechanism for the EPA
and the State agency to work out the practicalities of
the State's administering the program. They typically
address such things as how the State agency will furnish
EPA draft permits and that sort of thing, time
limitations for EPA to look at, who to contact at the
State agency.
It's essentially procedural in order to
facilitate EPA's continuing oversight role. It's not a
vehicle for EPA to impose substantive obligations coming
from other statutes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but the point is why
can't it be?
MR. KNEEDLER: Because we think that would
been consistent with Section 402(b), which requires,
which requires the EPA to approve the transfer.
Now, if a State agency chooses to cooperate
with Fish and Wildlife Service or NOAA in the Department
of Commerce with respect to species under its
jurisdiction, that is all fine. And I should point
out --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Doesn't the ESA require
something more than voluntary cooperation? I mean, you
quite rightly emphasize the mandatory nature of the
approval under the Clean Water Act. But the Endangered
Species Act mandate seems equally unconditional.
MR. KNEEDLER: It's unconditional with
respect in our view to actions that are within the
agency's discretion or consequences that the agency will
cause. But more fundamentally in response to your
question, Section 7 imposes obligations only on Federal
agencies, not on State agencies. Like 402(b), it is a
federalism-sensitive --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I realize that that's your
point. But doesn't that sort of beg the question?
Because it's not that anyone is suggesting here, I
think, that under the Endangered Species Act the Federal
Government can keep control or that the Federal
Government can in effect provide guarantees of what may
happen in response to some future development proposal.
What I think they're arguing is that when,
when, when the agency gives the approval, it should
require that there be some kind of procedure in place on
the part of the State so that when problems arise the
States will probably respond to them with the same
values in mind that the feds would.
And the question is why cannot the
Endangered Species Act be enforced in that way, to
require, in effect, an advanced mechanism before, in
effect, the whole business is turned over to the States?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, as to the latter, we
don't believe that EPA can condition the transfer. But
let me point out that in 2001 --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I know you say you don't
think they can do it. But the problem is we've got two
statutes each of which is mandatory. And your response
seems to be, well, we'll give full effect to one and we
will ignore the other. And I don't see how that is a
tie breaker. And why do you not have an obligation to
do what you can with respect to the Endangered Species
Act?
MR. KNEEDLER: First of all, with respect to
the Endangered Species Act, the memorandum of agreement
that was entered into in 2001 between EPA and the two
Federal wildlife services does furnish a way in which
after the transfer EPA can take into account endangered
species considerations within the scope of its --
JUSTICE SOUTER: At which point EPA doesn't
have any authority left under the Clean Water Act.
MR. KNEEDLER: No, that's not correct.
Under Section 402(d) EPA has the authority to object to
a State permit. And if the -- but to do so on, based on
a determination that the State permit would not satisfy
the guidelines and requirements of the Clean Water Act.
So if --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That begs the question
because the concern is the enforcement of the Endangered
Species Act.
MR. KNEEDLER: With respect to water quality
issues that might affect an endangered species, EPA
takes the position -- and I think it's correct -- that
EPA can object to a State permit where that permit would
not comply with State water quality standards that are
necessary to protect the endangered species.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why don't they get that in
the memorandum of agreement up front?
MR. KNEEDLER: EPA doesn't need the State's
agreement to object to a State permit. That is
authority --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Maybe it doesn't, but isn't
it the case that if it's in the agreement up front the
odds are better that the State will address it, as
opposed to the State ignoring the problem, requiring EPA
then to take affirmative action to object?
MR. KNEEDLER: And I wanted to get to the
further mechanisms that are in place under EPA
regulations and the memorandum of agreement.
JUSTICE SOUR TER: No, but would you answer
my question first? Isn't it likely that the States are
going to respond or deal with the problem if they have
an obligation in the memorandum of agreement right up
front?
I suppose. But let me, let me, let me
explain what is in place. EPA's regulations require
that a State furnish its draft permits to the public,
but also specifically to the Federal wildlife agencies.
That gives Fish and Wildlife Service an
opportunity to comment about endangered species concerns
that may be raised by the draft permit.
The regulations also require the State
agency to take into account the comments that are
submitted by anyone, including the Fish and Wildlife
Service and NOAA. Those provisions built in allow the
Federal agencies to bring their concerns to the State
agency, and I think there is every reason to believe
that the State agencies will --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is there an obligation on
the part of the State agency to take reasonable action
in response to them, or can the State agency simply sit
there, listen with a tin ear and then do whatever it
wants to?
MR. KNEEDLER: Those regulations do not
because they are procedural. Then what happens if the
State agency does not respond to the concerns raised or
does not remedy the concerns raised by Fish and Wildlife
Service or NOAA, EPA is notified and EPA can then try to
work it out with the State agency, or, failing that, EPA
can object to the State permit if it does not satisfy
the Clean Water Act standards.
And again with respect to water quality,
those standards are set at a level that is necessary to
protect endangered species. So as far as water quality
impacts are concerned, EPA retains complete control
under its ability to object to the permit.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You are in effect saying
that the, that the, that the enforcement of water
quality standards is, in effect, the indirect answer to
the problem that the other side raises? That's the way
it's done?
MR. KNEEDLER: It is. EPA --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except to the extent that a
project may be endangering a species, not by reason of
change in water quality but, for example, by destroying
habitat, constructing a dam or that sort of thing.
MR. KNEEDLER: Upland habitat, if it's water
habitat, water quality standards. EPA has to approve
State water quality standards. It consults with Fish
and Wildlife Service and NOAA in doing so to make sure
endangered species would be protected by the water
quality standards. And then each individual State
permit is measured against those water quality standards
to make sure they comply.
So therefore, with respect to water quality,
Fish and Wildlife Service agreed that the mechanisms I
have just described would take care of any Endangered
Species Act concerns.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you referring to, in
what you just described about the cooperation among the
Federal agencies, to what has been called in their
brief, it's referred to as a coordination agreement?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, the 2001, February 22,
2001, agreement between EPA and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that agreement, I
take it from what you just said, is in full force? EPA
hasn't retreated from that agreement and it will
continue to --
MR. KNEEDLER: That is correct. And some of
the things I described were embodied in EPA regulations
aside from the agreement, including an agreement that
State agencies furnish draft permits to Fish and
Wildlife Service and take into account comments that are
received in return.
Justice Scalia is correct that, that the
impacts that would not be covered by this would be
non-water quality-related impacts on upland habitat.
But in our view that simply reflects the nature of the
Clean Water Act and under 402(b) it is a Clean Water
Act. It deals with water quality, and we do not believe
that EPA is authorized to withhold the approval or
condition the approval of a transfer of permitting
authority to a State on the basis of what the State will
do with respect to upland, upland habitat.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Which is the -- the later
act is the Endangered Species Act?
MR. KNEEDLER: Essentially, the Endangered
Species -- there was a subsequent amendment to 402(b),
but for these purposes -- but --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why doesn't that control?
MR. KNEEDLER: Because it is -- we do not
think it repeals -- it's essentially a repeal by
implication question.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but you can just as
well say that if it does not control then there is an
exception by implication, the exception being based on
the prior act. Neither of them is particularly
satisfactory, but neither answer gives you a reason to
ignore the problem.
MR. KNEEDLER: Beyond that, Section 7 of the
ESA is a generally applicable statute, whereas Section
402(b) speaks specifically and comprehensively to the
question of Federal approval of State programs. We also
think this would be a particularly unlikely candidate
for an exception to that because EPA's approval of the
State program does not result in any immediate
on-the-ground consequences. That would only happen --
or in-the-water consequences. That would only happen if
after the transfer the State agency actually issued,
issued a permit. So what we're talking about is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, but by that very
reasoning you could say that if assurance are required
that the Endangered Species Act is going to be honored,
that does not in and of itself prevent any development
program. Each, in effect, is a kind of mechanism for
dealing with something that may happen in the future.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, if I could go back to
the point I was making earlier, that we think that the
central thrust of the court of appeals' opinion and
Respondent's position here is that EPA could not
transfer the authority unless it and the State together
replicated the sort of protections that were in place
when EPA itself administered the Endangered Species Act.
And as I said, that's inconsistent not only with 402(b),
but with Congress's federalism-sensitive judgment, to
impose the sort of substantive and procedural
administrative requirements in Section 7 of the ESA only
on Federal agencies, not on State agencies.
And let me also stress that this does not
mean that the rest of the ESA is inapplicable once a
permitting program of the State is approved. The
central provision of the ESA, the prohibition against
taking endangered species act and other provisions
against trading in them and importing, exporting, all
those remain applicable. Those are the generally
applicable provisions that prohibit the taking
of endangered species.
JUSTICE BREYER: I understand very well your
argument that if the EPA is going to transfer this, they
transfer it to Arizona and the first thing they say is,
we look at Arizona's laws and they protect everything.
And now we look at our own authority and if they get --
start mucking around with this, we can refuse the
permit. And besides that, we have a memorandum of
understanding and the memorandum of understanding or
whatever it is, agreement or something, is going to be
they're going to pay as much attention as we are. So
they'll pay attention to this, too, and if they don't we
have an enforcement mechanism. So no problem; we are
not putting any species in jeopardy. We satisfy the
standard. I've got that part of the argument. I think
I paraphrased it pretty well.
The part I don't get is then you say,
anyway, we don't have to do any of this because it says
"shall transfer," therefore, it's not discretionary,
it's mandatory. That part I don't get because there are
nine standards there and it seems to me to say that is
rather like saying, well, the ICC used to say you shall
let the railroad build a spur, provided it's in the
public interest, convenience, and necessity.
I mean, are you suddenly saying every
statute that uses the word "shall" is not subject to the
ESA?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I think it would
require a statute by statute evaluation.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, fine.
MR. KNEEDLER: But we think this one is
particularly clear.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, my problem with saying
it's clear is that they have nine criteria. One of the
criteria is you look to five other statutes, which they
have their own criteria and one of those criteria is you
have to be certain that the State will assure the
protection and propagation of a balanced population of
shellfish, fish, and wildlife.
And by the time you get through those nine
criteria, I don't think you'd have to be too imaginative
a lawyer to figure out ways that they involve everything
the ESA involves. So if there ever was an act prefaced
by the word "shall" where the ESA would apply, you would
think it would this be this one, which has to do with
water, environmental protection, nine criteria, many
vague, and they use words like "wildlife," "shellfish,"
et cetera.
MR. KNEEDLER: Several, several responses to
that. Those cross-references -- first of all, 402(b)
looks only to whether the State has the legal report
under State it law. Among other things, it requires a
certification or determination by the attorney general
of the State to establish that the State actually has
the authority to administer.
And the references to, cross-references to
fish and wildlife that come from incorporating other
provisions have to do with the setting of the standards
or setting -- under section 302, which EPA has never
invoked, setting certain supplementary effluent
standards to protect fish and wildlife. Those are the
standards. EPA does not evaluate the state's water
quality standards in deciding whether the State has the
legal authority under 402(b) to administer the program.
JUSTICE ALITO: Of the states to whom a
transfer has been made how many have agreed to comply
with this provision of the Endangered Species Act?
MR. KNEEDLER: I'm not sure. I don't think
--
JUSTICE ALITO: In the memorandum of
agreement with the states to whom transfers have been
made, in some of them, is there not language in which
the State has agreed that we'll consult with Fish and
Wildlife --
MR. KNEEDLER: There was, there was in the
Louisiana memorandum of agreement that was involved in
the Fifth Circuit's American Forestry decision, and it
was that provision that the Fifth Circuit held was
unlawful on two grounds. That, that memorandum of
agreement basically said we're trying to do something
analogous to Section 7 of the ESA when the State is
administering the program; and the Fifth Circuit said
that went beyond EPA's authority by conditioning the
approval on the State putting in place a compensation
arrangement.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You mentioned a whole
string of states, I think, Texas, Florida, Maine were
mentioned as states that -- in connection with the
transfer of the permitting authority had conditions that
made the Endangered Species Act applicable.
MR. KNEEDLER: That's not correct,
Justice -- Justice Ginsburg. What, after the Fifth
Circuit's decision, EPA never tried to impose on a State
an obligation to go forward in the same way that EPA, or
even in a similar way that EPA would under Section 7 of
the Endangered Species Act.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what was done in
Texas, Florida and Maine?
MR. KNEEDLER: They all provided what I've
described to Justice Souter, that -- that the
pre-existing ESA, EPA regulations require that draft
permits be furnished to the, to Fish and Wildlife and to
NOAA, and that they take into account the comments by
Fish and Wildlife and NOAA. That doesn't come from the
memorandum of agreement or -- or -- or EPA's memorandum
of agreement with the states. That's something that
comes from the regulations. Everything else --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So that, would that apply
in this case? Would that apply to Arizona?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. And, and the
biological, the memorandum of agreement in this case
applies to all State-administered programs including
those that were approved by EPA before 1993. This is a
nationwide memorandum of agreement.
And the basis --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Kneedler, may I ask a
question about the memorandum of agreement? That's kind
of a new concept that I have a little difficulty
following.
Is there -- is that, is one of the nine
conditions of approval that the State enter into a
memorandum of agreement?
MR. KNEEDLER: No, it is -- no it is not.
The memorandum of --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is there not a regulation
that issues, that requires the states --
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. There, there's --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What's the statutory
authority for the regulation?
MR. KNEEDLER: 33 U.S.C. 1314(i) allows --
provides -- excuse me -- for EPA to establish
guidelines, basic guidelines, minimum standards for
State programs and -- part of that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What if -- what if the
State just refused to enter into a memorandum of
agreement? Would that, could that be a ground for
refusing to transfer decision?
MR. KNEEDLER: If, if the, if its refusal
was based on an objection to things that are within the,
within the legitimate scope of a memorandum of
agreement. I think that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Just says don't want -- it
just says we don't want to enter into a memorandum of
agreement, period.
MR. KNEEDLER: Yeah. I -- I think -- I
don't think EPA has ever confronted that. But I think
it probably, it probably could be denied, but the
regulations do not -- as I recall -- specifically
condition the approval of the program on the memorandum
of agreement.
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- that require the making
of a memorandum of agreement.
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. I would, I would
hesitate to say that EPA could not -- could not insist
on that, but it's important again to come back to the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But how can that be
consistent with your shall argument?
MR. KNEEDLER: Because there's a separate
authority for the, for the, for EPA to issue guidelines
for minimum, minimum standards for State programs, but
those have to do with -- with communications with EPA
and sort of running a program. And it's not a vehicle
as I said before for EPA to impose new substantive
requirements outside the Clean Water Act on the State.
And that's why if -- that's why if EPA insisted that a
State enter into a memorandum of understanding that
basically said we will, we will act like EPA does under
Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act under the
administration of the program, I think the, I think the
State agency would be entitled to decline to enter into
that agreement. And again that's essentially what the
Fifth Circuit held in the American Forestry case, and to
what extent we agree with the American Forestry
decision.
If I may, I'd like to reserve the balance of
my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Kneedler.
Mr. Glitzenstein?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC R. GLITZENSTEIN,
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court.
I particularly start off with the memorandum
of agreement that was just being discussed, and to, I
think, at least try to clarify an answer, I think, to
Justice Ginsburg's question about compliance with that
memorandum of agreement. If you look at page 260 of the
NAHB appendix that was filed along with the petition,
one of the elements of that memorandum of agreement is
that there would be compliance with Section 7 of the
Endangered Species Act when there were transfer
decisions being made by the EPA. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is this? Would you
--
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: This is page 260.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of --
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Of the NAHB appendix,
which is -- there are two volumes of that appendix,
Justice Scalia. Volume one was pages 1 to 317, which is
the white cover volume, and I can quote from the
paragraph that I was referring to. And it's the first
full paragraph and it reads --
JUSTICE SCALIA: 270 you say?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: 260, I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: 260.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: 260, around.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I got it.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: And it's the first full
paragraph and it says: "EPA's current practice is to
consult with the Services where EPA determines that
approval of a State's or a Tribe's application to
administer the NPDES program may affect federally listed
species." And they actually complied with that
memorandum of agreement in this case when they consulted
in response to the Arizona application.
Now, this memorandum of agreement which
Mr. Kneedler just represented to the Court is continuing
to be complied with, specifically provides the
mechanisms by which the Clean Water Act and the
Endangered Species Act will be reconciled and will be
harmonized. This language was adopted after notice and
comment proceedings. It is reflected not only in the
application and the final decision made in this case,
where once again the EPA said point blank, we are
required to comply with Section 7 of the Endangered
Species Act; but essentially the same understanding of
the Agency's legal duties and how they would be
reconciled was set forth in all these past consultation
decisions that are described in the decisions below and
our brief.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can that be read just to
apply to any, any State permits that -- that violate
Clean Water requirements? As opposed to upland habitat
which -- which might be affected?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: There's certainly there's
nothing in the memorandum of agreement that says that.
But can I just add a critical point on that,
Justice Scalia? The Government's position now is that
it doesn't matter. Their new position in response to
Justice Stevens's question about the change in position,
before the Government came to this Court, they never
previously suggested what they're now saying, which is
that Section 7(A)(2) consultation obligations and the
no-jeopardy prohibition don't apply at all to these
transfer decisions.
So this distinction between aquatic species
and upland species, which may be an interesting one to
explore, we would submit on remand, is not the current
reflection of their position. Their position now is we
could have something causing the extinction of aquatic
species as a result of a pollution impact but we are
under no obligation to even take a look at that under
the seemingly mandatory requirement of Section 7.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, how do you feel --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's not quite
right. They would look at that in the context of
reviewing the permits that are issued by the State
agencies.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Your Honor, and I think
that's where we seem to have a little bit of a
disconnect. The assumption that Mr. Kneedler seems to
be making is the end of the consultation process that
Section 7 requires, not the beginning of it. The
purpose of the consultation process is to avoid
conflicts with other statutory obligations, note to
create them, and indeed as that memorandum of agreement
language suggests, the consultation process has been
used precisely --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, what he's
suggesting is there isn't going to be any impact on any
endangered species until a particular permit is issued
by the State agency, and that those permits are
submitted to the Fish and Wildlife Service for their
review.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: That's correct, Your
Honor. But to go back to the suggestion that I think
Justice Souter made, what the agencies have done in the
past, and this is a situation where we don't have to
speculate about whether the agencies can comply with
those statutes. They have done it. They've worked
these problems out. And what they have done when
they've consulted, if you go back and look at the
underlying consultation documents, they've spelled out
exactly what Your Honor just suggested should be the
approach. They've said, all right, when we issue these
permits under Section 402 -- under 402(b) and do we
exercise our oversight responsibilities under 402(d),
here are the species we are going to pay special
attention to. For example, in the Maine delegation, one
of the principal species of concern was the Atlantic
salmon, which they were concerned about because of
impacts from the aquaculture industry. What they did in
the biological opinion prepared as a consequence of that
consultation was not say, we're not going to let this
transfer go through. They said we have this oversight
ability. We're going to work out with the Fish and
Wildlife Service the mechanism by when those permits
come to our attention, as they must under section
402(d), we will discuss the circumstances and criteria
for objecting to those, we will go to the State under
the following circumstances, and say we think this
permit is going to cause the jeopardy of the species --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What does that have
to do with the -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that those are in
place. As I understood Mr. Kneedler to say that that's
exactly what they, what they continue to do.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Your Honor, and again --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that has nothing to do,
as the Chief was about to say before I interrupted him,
that has nothing to do with, with whether they have to
issue the NPDES authorization.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: And I guess the point I'm
trying to make, Your Honor, is that the Court's
fundamental obligation when it has two statutes that
have shall provisions, is to see if there's a way they
can be reconciled and worked out. And What I'm saying
is that the consultation process has been and should be
precisely the process where those kinds of issues will
be reconciled and that's exactly how this process is
working. So for the Government to come in and say let's
not use the process that 7(a)(2) calls for, in order to
try to avoid the problems, is to really put the cart
before the horse in the most, I think, obvious way
imaginable.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Could I get back to the
memorandum of agreement that you've called our attention
to on page 260? I read that paragraph, and I don't see
anything in it that imposes any obligation whatever on
the State. It is just a description of what -- what EPA
is, is going to do.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The same kind of
consultation with Fish and Wildlife that, that
Mr. Kneedler described to us.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: I think, Your Honor, and
I think that's critical. I think we're making some
assumptions here that, at least on our side, we're not
making. We're not assuming that the outcome of the
consultation process has to be to impose new conditions
on the State. One of the outcomes of the prior
consultation process with Maine, with Texas, for
example, was to spell out how the Service and EPA would
address their post-transfer concerns.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But this is talking about
consultation when the permit is -- the permit
application is issued. Not consultation at the, at the
stage of approving the State plan.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: With all deference, Your
Honor, it says: "The current practice to consult with
the Services where EPA determines that approval of a
State's or Tribe's application to administer the
program. And I think there is concession by the other
side that that in fact was a reflection of what the
practice was. They were consulting on the actual
transfer of the programs, and the reason they were doing
that, Chief Justice Roberts, was to do exactly what Your
Honor is suggesting, that is to work out a mechanism
beforehand, so that when the State permits are being
issued, the agencies would know how to address their
concerns.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the point -- the
point is that it's the issuance of a permit under the
program, whether administered by the Federal Government
or the State government that has the potential for
jeopardizing endangered species. It is not the
administration of the program. And EPA has in place the
procedures to allow them to review the particular
permits, which what is what might jeopardize an
endangered species. And they don't need to leverage
their limited authority, their non-discretionary
authority to approve a transfer, to have that authority
to review the actual act that might jeopardize an
endangered species.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: That's true, Your Honor,
but again I think what the Court may be doing is
assuming that this consultation process is somewhat more
draconian than it frequently turns out to be. If the
only outcome of the consultation process under Section
7(a)(2) is for the Fish and Wildlife Service to reach
some understanding with EPA, it says when these permits
are issued by the states, here are the circumstances
under which you're going to lodge objections, because
we're the expert agency on species. And I think this
record shows what we're talking about.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you -- are you saying
that the consultation does beyond the nine factors that
are listed in the statute?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: No, Your Honor. I think
what we're saying is that consultation goes to the
separate obligation under 7(a)(2) of the Endangered
Species Act to address the impacts on a listed species.
And if I could --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But isn't that beyond the
nine factors?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: I don't think -- I think
what it is is an effort, as there's been discussion
here, to reconcile two obligations, both of which
Congress felt were important. And that's exactly what
the agency has done in other circumstances.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I understand that.
But when they sit down and they have the consultation,
is it proper for the EPA to say now, we're consulting
with you, but only with respect to the nine factors, as
to permits that are issued by the states afterwards, but
then that's something else.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Well, and Your Honor,
just on that point, I found the Government's reply brief
a little bit odd, because I think consistent with the
questioning from Justice Breyer, it acknowledges for the
first time that these factors do encompass some
consideration of wildlife impacts. But putting that to
one side, I think it's very important to compare what
they're arguing now with how they dealt with other
cross-cutting legal obligations. If you look, for
example, at how they dealt with the Indian trust
responsibility -- I'm only bringing this up by way of
analogy, because I think the government's position is,
oh, we're trying to elevate the Endangered Species Act
to some exalted status, and in fact all we're saying on
this administrative record is that's the same status
that they accorded to other cross-cutting legal
obligations.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what is your position
as to the propriety of the EPA's saying what I've said
in my hypothetical instance? If they -- they say we're
going to consult with you but we want to make it clear
we're only talking about the nine factors.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: I think that my argument
is that the Endangered Species Act on its face says that
it prohibits jeopardy or the result of habitat
destruction, critical habitat destruction, for any
agency action that is authorized, funded or carried out.
Our view is that they should first look to the Clean
Water Act criteria and factors. We think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I think you are at
issue with the government on that point.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: We are, Your Honor. What
I will say to you, with all respect, Justice Kennedy,
and the reason I bring up their other legal obligations,
and I think it also reinforces the value of a remand in
this case, so some of the issues raised by the
government's new position would be flushed out in the
administrative process. If you look at joint appendix,
page 203, when Native American tribes wrote to the
agency and said we are concerned about the impact of
this transfer on Native American historic properties and
cultural and religious attributes, the EPA did not write
back and say well, we're sorry, Native American tribes,
that doesn't fall within the nine criteria.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what is -- is
there any limitation? Let's say that EPA says we're all
set to approve this transfer, except OSHA sent us a
letter and they don't like the occupational safety rules
you have at the State environmental agency; so until you
change those rules, or enter a memorandum of agreement
that you're going to change those rules, we're not going
to approve the transfer.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: I think the line, Your
Honor, is whether you've got another crosscutting
obligation --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah, like the OSHA
act. It says, you know, the states should do this, and
they're not doing it. So EPA can leverage their
approval into any area of law?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Again, Your Honor, I
think the first problem is, with that question is that,
I don't mean to be evasive, but I think the problem is
you're assuming the outcome of the analysis, which is
that they'll have to impose some new condition on the
State. With the Native American tribes, they didn't do
that. They didn't impose any condition on the State.
They said we'll have an agreement with the Native
American tribes that when we exercise our oversight
authority, we will look at the impact upon --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But sometimes states
say no. So if they say no, presumably they're going to
have to impose the obligation as a condition of
approval.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Yeah. And what I will
say, Your Honor, is we think that in the past they have
been able to work these problems out. But if they
can't, I think it's important to recognize that Congress
created a mechanism precisely for the very
rare situation where there is --
JUSTICE BREYER: That isn't the -- what I'm
trying to figure out with Justice Kennedy's questions
and your answers is, is there really an issue here? And
I'm beginning to see maybe there is an issue when you
said what are they talking about. Can you -- it's a
cactus. They're kidnapping cactus, as apparently
happens. And if in fact this cactus, if the thing is
transferred to the State, that cactus is going to
disappear. Now that isn't fish. It isn't wildlife. It
isn't water. It's a cactus.
So can you take that into account? Is that
theoretical? I think they're trying to raise this
question of, suppose you know the IRS, that if you mail
a refund check at the time, the person who gets it is
going to use the $500 to destroy the last salamander in
the world. Okay? Now there we are, endangered species.
Does the Act apply to the IRS? I would have thought the
answer's no.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: The answer is no, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: And then I would have
thought the same reasoning is true here, but what the
Act tells you to do is read your existing authority, but
read it in light of informed by the endangered species
objectives language, et cetera.
And now I wonder if with that approach, is
it possible that even the cactus could fall within the
nine criteria? You're not going to depart from them but
you're going to read them generously in light of the
objective of the Endangered Species Act, which is itself
an environmental objective. Now how does that work?
Can you do that? You're an imaginative lawyer. Can you
do it?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Well, I think you can.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. The answer is
you can. Then are you satisfied with this result in
this Court? One, it can be read that way. They're not
going to agree with that. It can be read that way, and
therefore, it applies. The ESA, the Endangered --
Two, that means they consult.
But three, the result of the consultation
here which has been done means there's no real objection
to the transfer, because it's virtually inconceivable
given the weapon that the EPA has, withdrawing permits,
given a memorandum of agreement, given the possibility
of supervision, given the fact that the wildlife service
will object, writing them a letter or a phone call
immediately, given all that stuff, there's simply no
reason to believe that Arizona will fail to protect
endangered species.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: I think that's a good
summary of what has happened with these consultations,
and on the cactus --
JUSTICE BREYER: So what's your view of an
opinion that roughly wrote what I just said?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Well, I think the concern
I would have is that I think it goes beyond what's
necessary here because we're not dealing, everybody
agrees, with some purely ministerial situation like that
one.
I think the other critical factor here, Your
Honor, that we haven't talked about, is the funding of
this program. And it's very interesting when the
government points out, if I can just get across to the
Court I think a critical citation, because the
government says funding is not before us. And the
reason they say that is because it didn't need to be
before us when they took the position that authorization
of the program was sufficient to trigger their
consultation duties. And in a footnote in their reply
brief, they say pay no attention to funding, which is of
course a discretionary activity, because that's
completely separate from the decision to authorize. If
you look at 40 C.F.R. Section 123.23(3), and I
apologize -- this is a response to their reply brief
point so there's not any appendix before the Court --
but it specifically provides that funding opportunities
are part and parcel of the decision to authorize the
program.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know what you're
talking about. Funding of what?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Funding of the NPDES
program carried out by Arizona that had to be approved
in order to allow --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How does the government
fund it?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: They have to -- there's a
-- Section 106 of the Clean Water Act provides the EPA
with an opportunity, and it's certainly not mandatory,
to provide funding to a State. And this is 40
percent Federal -- we're not talking about de minimis
funding. So it's one thing for the State to say well,
it should get the program. It's another thing to say
funding. And just to be clear about this, this is an
argument we're making to reinforce the propriety of
remand in this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you -- you have
other -- let's assume that I disagree with you on
whether they could withhold approval of the NPDES
transfer. Even so, I think you -- the point you're
making now is that apart from that approval, there were
other discretionary actions taken here, one of which is
this funding; and another one of which, I believe, is
whether -- never mind the MOAs, but -- I have it written
down here, one of the other ones. Oh, whether existing
permits would be transferred to State authority or not.
And that is apparently discretionary and can be -- what
do we do about that?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Well, we suggest, Your
Honor -- and I think this goes back to Justice Stevens's
question about the change in position. I think we're in
an odd position in this Court quite frankly because we
have an administrative record where the administrator
conceded a duty to comply with Section 7 of the
Endangered Species Act. We have a new position here
saying they don't. And we think funding and the other
example you came up with is a good reason why a common
sense result in this case is to say we have a change in
position, there are new issues brought to the fore. As
a consequence of that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question
about changing position? Have you agreed and conceded
that the nine statutory criteria are satisfied?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: We have --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You shift back and forth
on that point.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Your Honor, let me be
clear about that. We never conceded that. What
happened --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What is your view now?
Are they or are they not?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: I think that there are
actually arguments that, especially with regard to the
wildlife related parts of the criteria, that are not
satisfied. Let me -- let me try to explain why we
didn't feel it necessary to argue that in the court of
appeals.
JUSTICE BREYER: Before you say why you
didn't argue it, it's exactly that point I sort of
expected you might agree when I though maybe you have
hooks to hang the NSA, the Endangered Species Act on.
But it was the other half, which I think is what
Justice Stevens is saying now. I read through this
record, not completely but pretty well, and I couldn't
find a single thing that would suggest that Arizona
presents any risk to you. And so, what is the risk to
an endangered species that you're actually worried about
there? And you rather -- I didn't think you'd like to
agree with that, but I want to press you to find out
what actually is the problem.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: If I can give Your Honor
some citations to the record, I think it will help
answer that. On page 54 of the joint appendix, the Fish
and Wildlife Service biologists, the expert agency
employees, said that there would be significant effects
to survival and recovery of listed species through a
destruction, degradation and fragmentation of habitats.
They specifically pinpointed the flycatcher, the
southwestern willow flycatcher is a species that could
be devastated. That's at page --
JUSTICE BREYER: And how would that happen?
How would it happen that they would get rid of the
flycatcher in Arizona, considering the fact that they
have laws themselves that protect endangered species,
and that's a bird, and a bird is wildlife; and so if
they decide they want to kill all their flycatchers,
which I would doubt, you could intervene at EPA and stop
them. So how is that actually a problem?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Your Honor, the concern
that they had was that the mechanism that had been used
to protect these wildlife species, and particularly
plant species, which I want to get to in a moment,
because I think actually the concern is even greater
with plants, was that the consultation on federally
issued permits had in effect been used, and this was not
conjectural, they had been used to safeguard
considerable habitat for these species. And if I could
turn actually to the water level, which is I think
actually our best example, and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, that's not enough.
Why wouldn't -- what would lead you to believe that it
wouldn't -- that the same would not happen when the
State issued the permits? I mean, you have to show some
reason why we don't trust Arizona to do what the Federal
government's doing.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Your Honor, it is not a
question of trusting them. I think part of the outcome
of the consultation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well then, you have to
establish jeopardy. You have to establish jeopardy.
And the mere fact that you're giving it to a State which
Congress has been willing to trust with implementing
this law is not enough to show that there's jeopardy.
Prima facie, we would expect Arizona to do the right
thing.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Just as a technical matter,
don't they have to show there's no jeopardy?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Yes, Your Honor. The
burden is on the Agency in the consultation process.
And it's at, as TVA versus Hill makes clear, the benefit
of the doubt is accorded to the species. But, could I
try to answer that question?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: We're not saying we don't
trust the State. And In fact, one of the outcomes of
one these prior consultation processes has been where
it's appropriate, the service works had an agreement
with the State where it says here are our concerns where
the expert Federal agency, we listed these species, you
didn't. Part of it's expertise, not trust. And in
fact, if the State comes back and says we understand,
we'll deal with that problem, that is one aspect of a
consultation process that the government is now saying
we should never have to go through.
On the plants however, Your Honor, there is
a very serious concern. In this respect the service
biologists said we have protected these plants' habitats
through the Section 7 mechanism. The State of Arizona
acknowledges that it has no law or regulation which
forbids the destruction of federally listed plant
species.
Section 9 of the Endangered Species Act,
which Mr. Kneedler brought up and said it was the most
important provision, and I would beg to differ. I think
Sweet Home, both the majority and dissenting opinions
agree that Section 7 -- and Hill -- that Section 7 is
the most important provision. But plant species are not
protected generally by Section 9 of the Endangered
Species Act, the take provision, except when they're on
Federal lands.
So we have a situation where the service
biologists were saying, and this is how I read the
record, and if I can give a couple more citations, page
128 and 139 of the joint appendix. On one plant
species, joint appendix page 436. On the water on both,
they were essentially predicting jeopardy, unless
additional protections could be worked out in this
process.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Jeopardy from the
issuance of a prospective future issuance of a permit by
Arizona if they get the delegated authority. And that
issuance of the permit would be subject to objection and
review by EPA and the Fish and Wildlife Service.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: With regard to the plant,
Your Honor, EPA's position to date has been that they do
not have the authority to protect that plant species
under their Clean Water Act authorities. Now we may
disagree with that, but that is the position they've
taken so far.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The position that
EPA has taken.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: That's correct, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under their
authority.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Under their Clean Water
Act authority, which is what informs their oversight
activities.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So how does it
matter whether they have it or if it's transferred to
Arizona?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Because again, what the
consultation process is designed to accomplish, either
through the funding, discretionary decision that was
made, other mechanisms that can come into play, the idea
behind the consultation on the transfer -- and I think
this is critical to our position -- is to say if we're
not going to be able to protect the species through the
State issuance of the permits and the other authorities
we have, what understanding can we come to, consistent
with our --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand --
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: -- other obligations to
protect the plant species.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that
answer. The Chief Justice is asking, if EPA cannot do
it itself, how is it creating any jeopardy in
transferring the authority to somebody else who can't do
it?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Your Honor, what the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, if you assume that
EPA can't protect these plant species under its
legislation, what harm is there in transferring the
authority to somebody else who can't protect it?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Well, I should just first
say that we disagree with the premise of that question.
In terms of EPA's position, we happen to think that EPA
can protect those kind of plant species, and I think
that's one of the additional bases s for a remand.
But I think the more important answer to
Your Honor's question is that the Fish and Wildlife
Service biologist said in this administrative record
that the loss of those protections was an indirect
effect of the transfer, that because we have used these
protections when we've issued Federal permits to prevent
species like these plant species from going extinction
-- and this was not speculative --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If the EPA can protect the
plants when the permit is under its own jurisdiction,
why can't it use that same basis for objecting when it's
under the State's jurisdiction?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Your Honor, that's an
awfully good question. And in fact we believe that
should have been one of the outcomes of the
consultations.
On the transfer. If one of the results of
the transfer -- and I think this was -- I think what's
happening is that the government has basically assumed
the answer to the consultation before we've gotten to
that point. They've assumed --
JUSTICE ALITO: What's the difference
between Arizona's situation and all the other States
that can issue permits? Are they under legal obligation
to consult?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: I believe that --
JUSTICE ALITO: And where is --
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: It's not the State's
obligation to consult, Your Honor. Just to be clear,
Section 67 imposes no obligation on the State. We
completely agree with that. It imposes an obligation on
a Federal agency.
JUSTICE ALITO: You say it imposes an
obligation on EPA to require the States to consult.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: We don't disagree with
that either, Your Honor. We believe that there are
mechanisms that have been used in past consultations,
especially after the Louisiana decision that came down,
which involve the State not at all, which involve only
the Fish and Wildlife Service and the EPA recognizing
how they would exercise their --
JUSTICE ALITO: I still don't understand the
difference between what you think is going to happen in
Arizona and what is happening in all the other States
that issue permits.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Your Honor, we're not
saying that -- particularly with regard to Texas,
Florida, Oklahoma, Louisiana and other States that have
gone through the consultation process, we're not saying
that anything different should happen. We're saying go
through a full consultation process, agree on mechanisms
that can protect these species.
JUSTICE ALITO: No, in the issuance of a
permit in any of these States, pick any State you like,
what is the difference between what you envision would
happen in Arizona, if Arizona can issue permits, and
what's happening in these other States?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Again, with regard to
consultation with Arizona, all we're asking for and all
we've ever asked for in this case, and this was what the
service biologist said, was use the consultation process
to agree on measures that can be put in place
post-transfer that will prevent the species from going
extinct. That's what happened --
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I ask you to follow up
on that? A few minutes -- I guess your time is getting
short and I'd like to get away from some of the
specifics and back to the general. A minute ago,
Justice Breyer in effect offered you an opinion and he
spelled it out and he said, if I put that in writing is
that what you want? You said, well, it's really more
than we need.
Would you please at this point summarize as
succinctly as you can what you need to win this case?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Well, the narrowest thing
we need is simply a decision that the government changed
its position and the case should be remanded.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, tell me substantively,
what do you want? What substantively do you want at the
end of this case?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Your Honor, what we would
like is a ruling that says that 7(a)(2) imposes
obligations on Federal agencies just like the Clean
Water Act does, that the agency should make a good faith
-- and this is the words of Congress -- "a good faith
effort to use the consultation process provided by
7(a)(2) to devise mechanisms to protect species.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And how will they put those
mechanisms in legal form?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: They would put those
mechanisms in legal form either through memorandum of
agreement, which is what's been used in the past,
separate agreements between EPA and the Fish and
Wildlife Service --
JUSTICE SCALIA: By coercing, by coercing
the States to sign those agreements on pain of not
getting NPDES authority?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: No, Your Honor. In fact
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do they do then? They
just whistle and this comes forth? States don't sign
stuff just, just for the sake of it.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Your Honor, I think part
of this, these agreements, wouldn't have to be signed by
the State at all.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Justice Scalia's got a fair
point. What if the States say, we don't want a
memorandum of agreement? What does the Federal
Government do at that point? Doesn't the Federal
Government at that point say, okay, we're not going to
issue the transfer under Clean Water because we have an
independent obligation under Endangered Species and
there's got to be both or there will be neither? Isn't
that the Federal Government's position?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: At the end of the day I
think it is. And there is an endangered species
committee. Once again --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's your position, not the
Federal Government's position. It's your position of
what the Federal Government's position ought to be,
right?
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: What I was trying to
suggest was -- I think if in the end of the day you look
at all of these opportunities to protect species and you
say there's nothing we can do about it and the State
refuses to cooperate, you have what's called jeopardy or
destruction of critical habitat, and Congress said that
the mechanism for working out the conflict with another
law is the endangered species committee, which we have
not talked about very much. That was Congress's answer.
But what I was trying to suggest was, long
before you get to that point and without imposing a
single obligation on the State, simply using the
authority under 402(d) of the Clean Water Act, which
provides for this oversight opportunity, the service and
the EPA can come to their own understanding as to how
EPA will in fact carry out its post-transfer review of
these. And we think that is, that is an acceptable
answer to the question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. GLITZENSTEIN: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Kneedler, you
have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice:
First, with respect, stepping back and
looking at the legal theory, we think that this case is
really on all fours with the Public Citizen case. In
fact, the court of appeals recognized that the operative
regulation here, the definition of "indirect effect,"
meaning something caused by the agency, is just like the
one in Public Citizen. In Public Citizen this Court
held that where an agency has a mandatory duty and does
not have the ability to control subsequent events, that
the agency cannot be regarded as the legal cause of
whatever effects happen. That is exactly the case here.
Section 402(b) mandates that EPA approve the
State's application. EPA therefore, EPA's decision
therefore is not the legal cause of any effects that
might happen with respect to endangered species.
I should point out that in this Court's
decision in Sweet Home this Court in footnotes 9 and 13
read the other principal provision of the ESA, the take
provision, to incorporation a proximate cause
limitation. We think it follows that the jeopardize
prohibition in Section 7 also incorporates a proximate
cause or here legal cause restriction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kneedler, I hate to eat
up any of your rebuttal time, but would you state
briefly what -- how you would treat these other matters
that were resolved by the agency and that were not
mandatory, its decision to transfer prior certificate
authority to the States, for example, and the other
instance raised by opposing counsel? What if I agree
with you on whether you can deny the NPDES permit, but
I'm concerned about these other actions by the agency
that were discretionary?
MR. KNEEDLER: There has been no challenge
to that, so I'm not in a position to give a definitive
answer. But I believe to the extent it would be
discretionary that Section 7 may well kick in.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Should we remand?
MR. KNEEDLER: No, because there was no
challenge to that. There was no challenge to that
aspect of it. This was a challenge to the transfer of
authority, not ancillary matters addressed under the
agreement.
Also, footnote 18 of the court of appeals
opinion makes clear that Respondents did not challenge
anything to do with funding, which is an entirely
separate administrative determination that there's a
regulatory set of criteria for how funding gets
distributed, it is not dependent on whether the State
has NPDES authority. Section 106 of the Clean Water Act
has a separate funding mechanism for Clean Water Act
authority generally. So funding is simply not, it's
simply not in the case.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And it's in your
discretion -- your distinction to the snail darter case
is that the decision to built the dam is discretionary,
not mandatory?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, and in fact this Court's
decision in Hill can't be understood in any other day
because the Court went out of its way to say that, while
Congress committee reports indicated, for the
appropriations bills, indicated an expectation that the
dam would be built, the Court emphasized the fact that
there was no mandate in the appropriations statute
itself. That would have been --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you mean the executive
can ignore earmarks?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. That part of the
Court's decision would have been unnecessary.
JUSTICE BREYER: What's a mandatory
decision? No, what's a discretionary decision? I mean,
in the sense you're using it. I've never heard of an
agency that could just give out money to whoever they
want, like you or me. There are always criteria. Write
a "shall"; there are always criteria.
MR. KNEEDLER: But there are few statutes
like this, that say the agency shall unless certain
things happen.
JUSTICE BREYER: You mean is it the word
"unless," because here we have nine and they're broad.
Probably with funding we have 32. Maybe with some
others we have 14. But I can't get my mind around --
MR. KNEEDLER: There may be particular
applications of the standard, but that did not deter
this Court in Public Citizen, where the Court applied
the same principle and said where the agency has a
mandatory duty and no discretion it is not the legal
cause. That's the general principle. If there are
other cases where that general principle has to be
applied, there will be time enough for that
consideration to arise.
Another important aspect of Hill is this
Court quoted Representative Dingell, the sponsor of it,
saying that agencies are to take actions within their
power, which suggest that -- and we think it's clear
through the history, as we recite in our brief at pages
27 and 28, from the text of the Act and from the
evolution of Section 7, it was always understood to
apply to situations where the agencies had the existing
authority to take action, not to require them to
countermand statutory directives the way the Department
of Transportation could not countermand statutory
directives in Public Citizen.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:19 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
54:2 actual 31:3,21 42:12 44:7,17 23:19,20 34:18 37:9
57:25 47:22 54:19,24 56:15 analogous 20:3 appropriations
11:5 30:17 agency's 8:17 analysis 35:17 approval 3:22
addressed 3:17 ago 50:15 55:9 8:13 9:5 14:17
adequately 6:25 37:21 41:23 12:25 15:9 20:6 21:18
4:20 19:2,11 49:23 50:9 42:11 44:10 30:24 35:13
administered agreed 13:17 53:2,11 55:3 approvals 5:1
14:9 administering agreement 7:5 answer's 37:1 4:14 8:4 13:9
36:19 7:16 20:4 7:11,13 10:1 anyway 17:15 31:20 35:1,6
45:2 4:1 23:16 11:10,14 13:23 apologize 39:8 approved 16:17
6:25 7:6,10 administrative 14:7 17:7 36:14 40:15 approving 30:21
16:13 33:19 19:18,23 20:2 appeals 16:5 April 1:15
10:1,7 34:17 40:21 21:2,3,8,11,14 41:20 53:22 aquaculture
12:17 47:25 55:14 21:19 22:8,13 55:11 28:15
14:15,16 administrator 22:16,22,24 APPEARAN... aquatic 26:19,23
15:8 4:14 40:21 23:18 24:7,10 1:20 area 35:13
16:9,19 adopted 25:19 24:12 25:12,14 appendix 24:11 argue 41:19,22
19:14 advanced 9:12 26:9 27:14 24:20,21 34:17 arguing 9:4
23:11 affect 10:18 29:25 35:4,21 39:9 42:11 33:12
24:14 25:10 38:3 44:15 45:17,18 argument 1:18
affirmative 11:7 51:14 52:5 applicable 4:2 2:2,5,8 3:3,9
32:15 agencies 5:4 6:2 55:10 15:12 16:21,22 16:25 17:12
34:3,8 6:6,6 8:20,20 agreements 20:12 23:4 24:2 34:2
36:25 11:19 12:2,4 51:15,18 52:1 application 3:15 40:3 53:16
39:21 13:22 14:8 agrees 38:17 3:24 6:14,20 arguments
41:24 16:14,14 27:6 AL 1:4,7,12 6:24 7:2 25:9 41:16
46:5 27:25 28:2 ALITO 19:12 25:13,21 30:20 Arizona 17:1
51:6 31:8 51:5 19:17 48:19,24 30:25 54:6 21:6 25:13
55:17,18 57:11,16 49:5,14,25 applications 38:7 39:16
agency 1:9 3:6 allegation 5:21 57:1 42:3,21 43:17
57:17 7:20 8:5,17 9:5 39:17 applies 21:9 46:19 49:16
40:10 12:12,15 15:20 amendment apply 18:16 21:5 Arizona's 3:21
57:11 23:17 27:20 14:24 21:6 26:5,17 3:23,24,25
48:20 authorization beyond 15:11 candidate 15:15 29:1,8 31:5,10
authorize 39:6 38:15 carried 34:6 44:11 45:22
authorized biological 21:8 carry 3:19 53:9 47:9 53:12,14
57:9 aware 5:3 44:25 45:15 34:15 40:4 20:4 23:19
a.m 1:19 3:2 bit 27:8 33:7 50:24 51:2 19:24 20:15
breaker 9:22 55:20,22 57:23 28:22,24 32:5
back 16:3 23:2 18:2,5 33:8 cases 57:6 citation 38:23
35:17 29:24 34:22 38:12 41:21 54:3,7,12,15 45:16
44:19 50:15 56:12,21 caused 53:24 53:25 57:2,20
balance 23:22 33:6 39:4,8 central 16:5,18 Clean 3:13 8:13
29:25 basically 6:19 broad 56:22 certificate 54:20 52:8 53:6
20:2 23:14 brought 41:2 certification 55:17,18
beg 8:23 45:7 built 12:1 55:23 challenge 55:1,7 49:1 55:12
6:15 10:7 36:12 burden 44:7 change 5:23 coercing 51:17
11:2 begs 10:14 business 9:13 13:6 26:13 51:17
16:7 behalf 1:22,25 35:4,5 40:19 colleagues 4:8
19:2,11 2:4,7,10 3:10 C 41:1 come 19:4 21:1
22:1 24:3 53:17 C 2:1 3:1 changed 5:22 23:2 28:21
31:19,20 believe 9:15 cactus 36:14,14 50:23 29:19 46:23
35:23 12:3 14:16 36:15,16,18 changing 41:5 47:3 53:8
40:14 38:7 40:11 37:10 38:11 characterize comes 21:4
46:4,13 43:14 48:11,23 call 38:5 5:17 44:19 51:23
47:11,17 49:8 55:3 called 7:5,13 check 36:22 coming 7:23
53:6 benefit 44:8 13:22 29:25 Chief 3:3,11 comment 11:21
55:9,17 best 43:12 52:23 6:17 23:24 25:20
57:17 better 11:5 calls 29:20 24:4 27:3,17 comments 11:24
20:25 conditions 20:11 46:24 48:17 courts 5:23 decision 5:7,15
53:1 conflicts 27:13 consultations 56:11 25:21 39:6,11
confronted 38:10 48:13 cover 24:23 46:22 49:10
32:22 36:6 28:5 created 36:7 56:1,11,13,13
Congress's consults 13:10 4:15 6:15 7:1 decline 23:17
49:3 connection continue 14:4 34:8,23 37:11 deference 30:22
consequence continuing 7:22 56:16,17 definitive 55:2
consequences control 9:1 30:10 34:5 42:15
19:13 considerable 54:2 52:24 delegation 28:12
28:2 43:10 convenience crosscutting denied 22:19
consideration 17:21 35:8 deny 54:23
considerations 52:23 33:13,20 depart 37:11
considering 8:11 13:21 18:22 19:3 1:22 8:6 57:18
38:14 23:4 33:7 47:3 correct 10:8,19 26:21 30:23 Deputy 1:21
44:24 constructing 14:5,11 20:13 C.F.R 39:7 described 13:18
34:19 consult 5:4 6:6 counsel 53:12 D 20:22 26:2
19:20 25:8 54:22 57:22 D 3:1 30:8
12:2,12 37:23 48:22 57:18,19 56:5 designed 46:21
13:19 49:1,6 couple 45:16 darter 55:22 destroy 36:23
31:9 consultation 5:2 course 39:5 date 46:3 destroying 13:6
6:7,8,18,21 court 1:1,18 day 52:12,20 destruction 34:5
14:18 28:17 29:16 26:14 31:24 deal 11:13 44:20 detailed 7:4
35:18,20 30:7,13,15,19 37:20 38:23 dealing 16:2 deter 57:1
30:20 31:25 39:9 40:20 38:16 determination
37:24 39:3 54:10 55:11 dealt 33:12,14 55:14
44:14,21 46:21 57:10 deciding 19:10 30:24
11:22 14:8 32:14 33:17 38:2 39:21 28:12 30:16
15:25 duties 25:25 37:7,13,22 47:9,15,20 43:12 54:21
49:15 D.C 1:14,22,24 52:13 53:1 EPA's 3:22 4:23 executive 56:8
54:8 5:21 7:13,22 exercise 28:10
E 2:1 3:1,1 13:5 20:5 21:2 25:7 existing 37:6
EDWIN 1:21 engaged 6:8 ERIC 1:24 2:6 expert 32:7
47:19 effect 9:2,12,13 enter 21:18 22:7 ESA 4:6 8:10 expertise 44:18
9:20 12:23,25 22:15 23:13,17 15:12 16:13,16 explain 11:17
55:22 effluent 19:7 environmental especially 41:16 extent 13:4
effort 32:20 51:8 1:9 3:6,14 49:10 23:20 55:3
39:5 49:8 51:13 37:14 2:6,9 extinction 26:23
46:22 elements 24:12 envision 50:2 essentially 7:21 48:4
55:4,23 elevate 33:17 EPA 3:16,23 4:3 14:23 15:3
embodied 14:6 4:10,22 5:4,7 23:18 25:24 F
55:22 5:3,9,12 6:24 12:14,15,21 evaluation 18:1 43:24 44:13,19
9:11,23 10:1,4 14:6,17 16:6,9 events 54:2 53:9,22 55:25
35:12 13:12,18 14:22 21:10 22:3,18 evolution 57:15 factors 4:10
14:23 15:24 23:1,6,8,10,12 exactly 28:7 32:10,18 33:2
23:15 24:14 30:16,24 31:15 54:4 failing 12:15
8:19,25 9:1 flycatcher 42:16 14:8 46:14,20 47:6 H
11:19 42:17,21 furnished 20:24 47:13,18 48:10 habitat 13:7,8,9
13:22 flycatchers further 11:9 48:23,25 49:7 14:13,20 26:6
16:14 42:24 future 9:3 16:2 49:18 50:5,22 34:4,5 43:10
39:24 follow 50:12 45:23 51:3,12,20,25 52:24
44:17 following 21:16 52:12,19 53:13 habitats 42:15
48:3 28:24 G go 16:3 20:16 44:25
51:5 52:5 follows 54:13 G 3:1 27:24 28:5,18 half 41:25
footnote 39:3 general 1:21 28:23 44:22 hang 41:24
16:11 footnotes 54:10 57:5,6 goes 32:13 38:15 15:18,19 16:2
45:3 force 14:2 16:21 45:11 going 7:1 11:13 47:20 49:15,22
20:4 forth 26:1 41:8 51:19 33:25 35:5,5 happening
23:19 51:23 Ginsburg 6:23 35:25 36:16,23 48:16 49:16
20:16 20:8,14,19 47:1 48:4 happens 12:11
17:1 frequently 32:1 38:6 9:2 26:14 heard 56:14
24:24 front 10:24 11:4 gives 9:5 11:20 29:19 31:12,13 held 3:23 19:25
33:9 34:7 11:15 15:9 34:10 38:22,24 23:19 54:1
47:18 full 9:20 14:2 giving 43:24 39:18 44:21 help 42:10
24:25 25:6 Glitzenstein 48:16 50:23 hesitate 23:1
12:13 fund 39:19 24:4,18,20 government's 56:1 57:9
14:8 fundamental 25:2,4,6 26:8 4:22 26:11 historic 34:20
19:4,8 29:13 27:7,23 29:6 33:6,16 34:16 history 57:13
20:24 fundamentally 29:11 30:5,9 43:18 52:11,16 holding 4:4
27:21 6:12 8:18 30:22 31:23 52:17 Home 1:3 3:4
30:7 funded 34:6 32:12,19 33:5 greater 43:6 45:8 54:10
36:17 funding 38:20 34:2,11 35:7 ground 22:8 Honor 27:7,24
46:1 38:24 39:4,10 35:14 36:3 grounds 20:1 28:7 29:6,12
49:12 39:14,15,23,25 37:2,17 38:9 guarantees 9:2 30:9,23 31:6
32:12 impose 5:8 7:23 49:11,11 15:22 16:24 kind 9:6 16:1
34:11 16:12 20:15 involved 19:23 18:2,5 19:12 21:14 30:6
36:4 23:10 30:13 involves 18:15 19:17 20:8,14 47:21
38:20 35:18,20 36:1 in-the-water 20:14,19,22 kinds 29:17
41:10 imposes 6:2 8:19 15:19 21:5,13,22,25 Kneedler 1:21
43:2,19 30:2 49:2,3,5 IRS 36:21,25 22:6,14,23 2:3,9 3:8,9,11
46:3 51:4 issuance 31:11 23:3,24 24:4,9 4:12,24 5:25
47:13 imposing 53:4 45:23,23,25 24:16,19,22 6:11,19 7:12
49:1,8 inapplicable 47:2 49:25 25:1,3,5 26:4 8:2,15 9:14,25
51:3,20 16:16 issue 5:24 23:6 26:11,13 27:2 10:8,17,25
including 11:25 28:8 29:10 27:3,17,25 11:8 12:10
incorporates 31:8 32:5 33:3 35:10,24 36:9 21:7,13,20,24
43:8,16 48:3 36:10 37:4,18 22:2,10,17,25
56:9 independent J 44:4,11 45:22 55:1,6,25
indicated 56:3,4 54:13 48:6,19,24 35:11 36:21
37:15 48:1 53:23 31:14 50:12,16,25
industry 28:15 28:25 34:4 52:3,3,15 lands 45:13
informs 46:15 44:5 45:19,22 54:16 55:5,21 25:19 27:15
34:19 insisted 23:12 joint 34:17 57:22 law 3:19 18:24
instance 33:24 42:11 45:17,18 35:13 44:1
28:15 insured 3:25 jurisdiction 8:8 keep 9:1 laws 17:2 42:22
33:10 interest 17:21 48:7,9 Kennedy 4:7 lawyer 18:14
26:20 38:21 3:11 4:7,21 33:22 34:9,12 lead 43:14
4:23 7:25 8:10,22 Kennedy's legal 3:18 4:15
33:11 29:8 10:23 11:3,11 kick 55:4 19:11 25:25
45:7,10 intervene 42:25 12:5,23 13:4 kidnapping 33:13,20 34:13
57:9 invoked 19:7 13:20 14:1,11 36:14 48:21 51:11,13
57:4 22:23 27:10 26:9 27:14 56:14 11:14 12:5
mandates 54:5 20:8,10 nine 3:17 4:9 49:1,2,3,6 52:9
6:14 8:12 9:19 met 4:10 18:6,12,18 obligations 5:8
39:22 54:1,20 56:24 33:2 34:1,23 26:16 27:13
matter 1:17 23:7,7 Ninth 3:21,23 51:5
42:14 mean 8:11 16:16 53:15 31:19 odds 11:5
45:3 17:22 35:16 MOAs 40:12 non-water 14:13 offered 50:16
meaning 53:24 mucking 17:4 notified 12:14 Oklahoma
measures 50:9 N 2:1,1 3:1 NPDES 3:16 25:22 52:14
18:7 9:12 16:1 narrowest 50:22 29:10 39:15 on-the-ground
26:25 17:10 28:20 National 1:3 3:4 40:7 51:19 15:18
28:5 31:6 36:7 43:3 nationwide 54:23 55:17 operative 53:22
34:7,17 45:1 52:25 21:11 NSA 41:24 opinion 16:5
39:7 55:18 Native 34:18,20 number 7:8 28:16 38:13
mechanisms 34:22 35:19,21 50:16 55:12
19:23 meet 7:1 41:19 12:22 38:5 11:21 39:22
memorandum necessity 17:21 objecting 28:23 53:7
11:10 31:18 38:25 objection 22:11 26:6
30:15 21:19,21 22:7 never 5:2,7,13 37:14 order 7:21 29:20
45:8 23:13 24:6,10 26:14 40:12 obligation 6:2,5 OSHA 35:1,10
35:17 31:11 45:23,25 41:22 48:18 previously 38:21 39:2,12
48:7 50:1 50:20 52:4,6,7 26:15 39:16 40:1
48:12 permits 4:3 7:18 points 38:22 20:23 15:14 21:9
35:22 27:5,20 28:9 population 54:11 prohibition
53:7 28:20 31:7,17 18:10 principle 57:3,5 16:18 26:17
33:3 38:2 position 4:12,22 57:6 54:14
30:1 permitting 26:11,12,13,22 22:19,19 56:23 18:10
42:11,18 14:18 16:17 26:22 33:16,22 problem 9:18 proper 33:1
20:11 34:16 39:1 11:6,13 13:1 properties 34:20
petition 24:11 41:2,5 46:3,6,8 18:5 35:15,16 propriety 33:23
25:7 Petitioners 1:5 52:16,16,17 problems 9:7 45:23
2:4,10 53:17 55:2 28:4 29:21 protect 10:22
pick 50:1 possible 37:10 procedural 7:14 19:8 38:7
place 3:25 5:2 53:9 procedure 9:6 47:17,21 48:6
39:11 5:16 9:6 11:9 potential 31:13 procedures 49:24 51:9
44:18 11:17 16:8 power 57:12 31:16 52:21
56:10 20:6 29:4 practicalities proceedings protected 13:12
31:16 plan 30:21 practice 25:7 process 27:10,12 protection 1:9
plant 43:5 45:3 30:23 31:3 27:15 29:16,17 3:6,14 4:18
18:4 46:4 47:7,15 29:17 36:7 30:15 31:25 protections 4:1
43:4 47:21 48:4 predicting 45:19 32:2 34:17 5:16 16:8
plants 43:7 prefaced 18:15 44:7,21 45:21 45:20 48:1,3
please 3:12 24:5 prepared 28:16 processes 44:14 provided 17:20
11:1 10:6 16:4 35:25 7:16 15:17 39:10,21 53:7
12:16,22 25:22 26:10 pretty 17:13 16:1,17 19:11 provision 16:18
15:21 29:11 31:10,11 42:2 20:4 22:21 19:14,25 45:7
27:19 33:6 34:10 prevent 15:25 23:9,16 25:10 45:10,12 54:11
raised 11:22 reflection 26:22 9:12 11:17,23 retreated 14:3
19:5 54:22 reflects 14:14 22:23 49:6 review 27:22
raises 13:1 refund 36:22 57:17 31:16,21 46:1
reach 32:3 refuse 17:4 25:23 reviewing 27:5
53:21,25 37:6,7,12,20 refuses 52:23 27:1 right 11:14 18:2
57:2,20 37:21 42:1 refusing 22:9 requirements 27:4 28:8 30:5
51:10,12 really 7:14 regulation 21:22 27:11 Roberts 3:3 6:17
33:10 50:18 53:21 53:23 reserve 23:22 29:1 31:5,10
40:25 43:17 20:23 21:4 12:18 13:16 53:12,14 57:22
reasonable 12:6 22:20 14:20 33:2 role 7:22
14:16 reasoning 15:23 regulatory 34:12 44:24 roughly 38:13
37:5 55:15 53:19 54:8 rules 35:2,4,5
53:16 54:17 reinforced 4:17 11:13 12:12 running 23:9
9:10 received 14:10 related 41:17 1:25 2:7 24:3 S
11:12 recite 57:13 religious 34:21 55:12 s 1:21 2:1,3,9
21:14 recognize 36:6 remain 16:21 Respondent's 3:1,9 47:22
26:13 recognized remaining 53:15 16:6 53:16
36:21 53:22 remand 26:21 response 8:18 safeguard 43:9
41:4 recognizing 34:14 40:4 9:3,19 12:7 safety 35:2
44:10 49:12 47:22 55:5 25:13 26:12 sake 51:24
48:11 reconcile 32:21 remanded 50:24 39:8 salamander
reconciled 25:18 remedy 12:13 responses 18:21 36:23
record 32:8 repeals 15:3 28:10 satisfactory
47:25 39:8 rest 16:16 6:15 37:19
reflected 7:11 25:15 results 48:14 saying 7:1,7
26:15 service 5:11 8:6 sorry 25:2 29:2 51:9 52:9,13 43:16,24 44:13
32:9,13 11:20 12:1,14 34:22 52:21 53:1 44:16,19 45:1
40:24 13:11,17 14:9 sort 5:18 7:18 54:8 47:2 49:2,11
44:12,21 27:21 28:20 8:23 13:7 16:8 specifically 50:1 52:2,22
49:19,21 30:16 32:3 16:12 23:9 11:19 15:13 53:5 54:17
57:11 38:4 42:12 41:22 22:20 25:16 55:16
25:7 46:1 47:25 Souter 7:25 8:10 specifics 50:15 4:19,20 5:16
30:23 49:12 50:8 8:22 9:17 10:6 speculate 28:2 7:8 9:8,13
34:3,25 51:16 53:7 10:14,23 11:3 speculative 48:5 11:12 19:12,18
38:24 services 10:3 12:5,23 14:21 spell 30:16 20:9,10 21:3
51:4 25:8 30:24 15:1,5,22 spelled 28:6 21:23 32:5
24:16,19 26:1 35:1 44:4 50:12,25 sponsor 57:10 48:20 49:6,16
25:1,3,5 55:15 51:10 52:3 spur 17:20 49:20 50:1,4
27:2 setting 19:5,6,7 southwestern stage 30:21 51:18,23 52:4
30:6 shellfish 18:11 42:17 standard 17:12 54:21
39:13,18 18:19 speaks 15:13 57:1 state's 3:16 6:20
43:13,22 shift 41:8 special 28:11 standards 10:21 7:3,16 10:25
short 50:14 species 4:3 5:3,9 12:17,19,25 19:9 25:9
52:15 show 43:16 44:1 5:13 6:4,25 7:6 13:9,10,13,14 30:25 48:9,25
55:5 44:5 7:10 8:7,14,25 17:18 19:5,8,9 54:6
shows 32:8 9:11,23 10:1,5 19:10 22:4 State-adminis...
5:3,8 sign 51:18,23 14:22,24 15:24 4:15,18 5:8,14 15:12 17:23
8:3,19 10:9 signed 52:1 16:9,19,23 6:14 7:15,17 18:1,1 32:11
16:13 significant 17:11 19:14 7:20 8:5,20 9:7 56:6
20:3,17 42:13 20:12,18 23:15 10:10,11,20,21 statutes 4:10
24:13 similar 20:17 24:14 25:11,18 11:1,5,6,18,23 7:24 9:19 18:7
26:16 simply 12:7 25:24 26:19,20 12:2,4,6,7,12 28:3 29:13
28:9 14:14 38:6 26:24 27:19 12:15,16 13:10 56:18
32:2 50:23 53:5 28:11,13,25 13:13 14:8,19 statutory 21:25
40:22 55:19,20 31:14,18,22 14:19 15:14,17 27:13 41:6
single 42:3 53:5 32:7,15,15 15:20 16:7,14 57:18,19
54:5,14 sit 12:7 32:25 33:17 34:3 16:17 18:9,23 stepping 53:19
57:15 situation 28:1 36:24 37:7,13 18:24 19:1,1 Stevens 4:21
36:12 45:14 48:20 41:24 42:5,14 20:6,15 21:18 21:22,25 22:6
39:6 somebody 47:11 46:4 47:1,7,15 31:7,13 35:3 40:18
55:14,18 47:17 47:21 48:4,4 35:19,20 36:16 stop 42:25
taken 5:1 40:10 36:4,6,20 Transportation United 1:1,18
57:23,25 talked 38:20 40:8,18,19,24 tribes 34:18,22 56:11
54:2 talking 15:21 42:10 43:6,11 Tribe's 25:9 14:13,20,20
16:12 34:1 36:13 46:24 47:20,21 tried 5:7 20:15 use 18:19 29:20
39:14,24 47:23 48:15,15 trigger 39:2 36:23 48:8
51:1 tell 50:25 52:13,20 53:10 trust 33:14 uses 17:23
52:20 30:15 49:19 three 37:24 29:21 41:18 vague 18:19
57:12 text 57:14 thrust 16:5 44:10 value 34:14
53:12,13 57:21 time 4:25,25 29:12 33:17 vast 4:25,25
31:6 theoretical 18:12 23:23 53:3 23:9
theory 53:20 50:13 54:17 turn 43:11 44:8
36:15 39:25 today 3:4 TVA 44:8 41:13
14:6 18:24 10:4 14:18 32:21 37:23 volumes 24:21
think 4:13 5:17 17:1,16 19:13
15:3,15 16:4 28:18 31:4,20 8:14,15 33:25 42:7,24
20:9 22:13,17 46:24 48:2,14 16:24 32:24 56:16
23:16 48:15 52:8 44:19 47:5,8 wanted 11:8
20:24 21:1 35:10 36:3 40 39:7,23
27:21 28:20 402 28:9
30:7 32:3 $
3:13 4:13
14:15 33:10 36:17 $500 36:23 8:3,20 14:15
18:18 38:4 41:17 14:24 15:13
23:11 42:12,23 43:4 0
1:6 3:4 16:10 18:22
26:6 46:1 47:24 19:11 28:9
36:18 49:12 51:16 06-549 1:11 3:5
43:11 willing 43:25 1 402(b)'s 4:4
46:5,14 willow 42:17 402(d) 10:9
24:22
52:8 53:6 win 50:21 28:10,22 53:6
1:19 3:2
window 7:8 436 45:18
39:21 55:17
57:24
39:7
13:1 withhold 4:11 53 2:10
4:17
29:14 6:15 14:17 54 42:11
45:17
33:15 40:7
54:10 6
56:2 wonder 37:9
22:2 67 49:2
word 17:23
45:17
56:24 7
1:15 7 4:2,6 5:3,8 6:1
55:11 8:19 15:11
4:24 6:8 16:13 20:3,17
35:21 28:19 31:6
23:15 24:13
36:5 37:14
5:15 25:23 27:1,11
28:17,19 28:3 29:15 40:22 45:1,9,9
45:20 54:14 55:4
9:16 10:2 57:15
33:1 working 29:19 13:24,25
52:25 7(a)(2) 26:16
1:15 29:20 32:3,14
works 44:15 203 34:18
38:16 world 36:24 51:4,9
13:24
40:3,19 worried 42:5 24 2:7 9
46:25 wouldn't 43:14 260 24:10,18
43:15 52:1 9 45:5,11 54:10
30:1
52:7 write 34:21 27 57:14
50:7 writing 38:5 28 57:14
5:4,11 38:13 302 19:6
8:6 10:3 317 24:22
X
56:23
13:11,17 x 1:2,13 33 4:17 22:2
18:11,19
