IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JEFFREY UTTECHT, SUPERINTENDENT, :
WASHINGTON STATE PENITENTIARY, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-413
CAL COBURN BROWN. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 17, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
JOHN J. SAMSON, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,
Olympia, Wash; on behalf of Petitioner.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioner.
SUZANNE LEE ELLIOTT, ESQ., Hartford, Conn; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JOHN J. SAMSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioner 19
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SUZANNE LEE ELLIOTT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN J. SAMSON, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:00 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument next
in 06-413, Uttecht versus Brown.
Mr. Samson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN L. SAMSON,
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. SAMSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court.
The Ninth Circuit's conclusion that
Mr. Brown is entitled to habeas corpus relief should be
reversed for three reasons. First, under Section
2254(3)(16) of the Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death
Penalty Act the trial judge's dismissal of Mr. Deal from
the jury is a finding of fact of substantial impairment
that is presumed correct unless it is rebutted by clear
and convincing evidence. Mr. Brown has not presented
such evidence because the record before the State court
supports the decision to remove Mr. Deal, especially
since the trial judge had the opportunity to observe
Mr. Deal and the defense had no objection to his
removal.
Second, under 2254(d)(2) the State court
decision was based on a reasonable determination of the
facts. Since the finding of fact was correct it is
necessarily reasonable.
And third, under 2254(d)(2), the State court
decision was not contrary to Supreme Court precedent.
Since the trial court applied the correct standard under
Witt and found as fact that Mr. Deal was substantially
impaired and this case is immaterially indistinguishable
from Witt, the State court's decision was a reasonable
application of clearly established Federal law.
Mr. Deal did indicate in the voir dire that
he could impose the death penalty and consider it, but
his other statements created an ambiguity which the
trial judge was in the best position to resolve.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Counsel, may I ask you one
thing, which I have assumed, and I think it is correct,
but I'd like to be sure of it. Is it the case, is it
correct, that prior to the voir dire questions, no one
had given a statement to the venire people of what the
law was with respect to the imposition of the death
penalty; is that correct?
MR. SAMSON: Not exactly, Your Honor. Prior
to the individual voir dire, they were -- there was
instructions given to the jurors. Prior to the filling
out of the questionnaire.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Were they told what the --
I forget how many factors are enumerated under the
Washington law? Were they told what they were?
MR. SAMSON: No, Your Honor, it was more a
general instruction regarding how the system operates.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. SAMSON: In the individual voir dire of
Mr. Deal --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But one piece of
evidence that -- one piece of information that wasn't
given apparently to those jurors, they didn't know about
it, was that life meant life without parole. Because
when he was questioned, he was surprised, he didn't know
that that was the law.
MR. SAMSON: Your Honor, he learned an hour
before his questioning that that was the law. He was
not informed of that -- of tht law when he filled out
his questionnaire. But approximately an hour before the
individual questioning, he was informed of that, and he
indicated that in his questioning that he had just
learned an hour ago.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And how did he learn
that?
MR. SAMSON: He learned that from the
instructions given by the trial judge as well as through
the statements by defense counsel and by the prosecutor.
And the defense counsel reminded Mr. Deal of
the fact that there was life without parole. She asked
him if he can consider both options, death and life
without parole. He said he could. And then defense
counsel asked why do you think the death penalty is
appropriate? And he stated again, as he stated in his
questionnaire, it would be a case where the person was
incorrigible and would reviolate if rereleased.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He gave that as an
example. He didn't say and that's the only circumstance
in which I be willing to vote for the death penalty.
MR. SAMSON: That is correct, Your Honor,
but the prosecutor in viewing Mr. Deal's responses
through the course of the voir dire, the prosecutor
viewed Mr. Deal as saying the only time, or I would have
great difficulty in imposing the death penalty, unless
the person would be released and would be in a position
to -- to reoffend or kill again.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did he say, "for example,"
with regard to the quotation that Justice Ginsburg
mentioned? I didn't recall that he said for example.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He was asked to give an
example. He didn't say for example. But he didn't say
this would be the only situation in which I would vote
for the death penalty.
MR. SAMSON: That is, that is correct. Both
-- both are correct, Your Honors. At Joint Appendix 62,
he was asked for an example of why he believed the death
penalty was appropriate, and he says, "I think if a
person is or would be incorrigible and would reviolate
if released, then it would be appropriate."
And, in fact, the only two examples he ever
gave of when he believed it would be appropriate is when
a defendant wants to die or a defendant would be
released on parole and could kill again. And the
prosecutor specifically asked Mr. Deal, can you think of
an example, or a situation of when you would be able to
impose a death penalty now knowing there is life without
parole, and Mr. Deal at Joint Appendix 71 to 72 said I
would have to give that some thought. Like I said up
until an hour ago I did not realize that life without
parole was --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you agree that if we
grant your position and grant you relief, that it would
be something of an extension over Witt and Darden, in
that the jurors in Witt and Darden had fixed views, that
they were as a matter of conscience opposed to the
penalty?
MR. SAMSON: Your Honor, I would agree that
the statements given by the jurors in Witt and Darden
were not exactly what Mr. Deal said. But I think the
general rule that the deference given to the trial judge
would be the same rule. And we are only asking this
court to apply the rule.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I understand that. But I
do think that the views of this juror, Deal, were
somewhat more equivocal than in the cases I've
mentioned.
MR. SAMSON: They were, Your Honor. There
was not a statement as in Witt and Darden where the
jurors said that they had an opposition to the death
penalty and would have difficulty applying it. That is
correct. The statements were -- were different.
And certainly if the judge viewing a juror
of this type determined that the juror was not impaired,
then that decision would also be entitled to deference.
In fact, an example occurred in this case, Juror Obeso,
the judge -- there was a challenge by the prosecutor.
There was actually an objection by the defense. And the
judge said Mr. Obeso says that he can follow the law and
impose the death penalty and I think he can.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One thing I couldn't
clearly discern from your brief is the significance you
attached to the defendant's, defense failure to object.
How does that enter into our analysis?
MR. SAMSON: Your Honor, there's two points
made from the failure to object. The first is it
explains why there's no evidence, expressed evidence
regarding demeanor or credibility or even an express
statement regarding demeanor or credibility or even an
express statement as to substantial impairment.
The second is that as the Court stated in
Witt, it is a significant factor the court may consider
in its evidence that show the judge acted appropriately.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me on that
point that the State is somewhat surprised and
whipsawed. And I understand that the Washington court
reached the issue. It is not independent State ground.
I take it the prosecutor had some peremptories left?
MR. SAMSON: Yes, Your Honor. The
prosecutor had two.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How late in the process
was -- was Deal considered? Was he one of the early
jurors or one of the late jurors?
MR. SAMSON: He was one of the -- the early
jurors. He was on November 3, which was about five to
six days into the individual voir dire on the death
qualification.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: This was about a 17 day
voir dire?
MR. SAMSON: That is correct, Your Honor.
And --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that cuts a little
bit against the peremptory. I mean, if it was early in
the game the prosecutor might not have exercised the
peremptory.
MR. SAMSON: Well the peremptories were not
exercised until the death qualification and the other
for-cause checks are were done.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, I see. So the whole
jury is -- I see.
MR. SAMSON: Yes, Your Honor. So they, they
completed all the death qualification. And then those
jurors that that remained they had further individual
voir dire, and the defense and the prosecutor then used
their peremptories interchangeably to remove jurors.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I go back to the
Chief's question about the failure to object? I think I
got the impression from Judge Kozinski's opinion that he
thought that the Washington Supreme Court found that
with respect to two out of the three jurors at issue
that there had been a finding that they were
substantially impaired, but with respect to this juror,
that the Washington Supreme Court seemed to rely on the
failure to object as the principal explanation for their
decision.
MR. SAMSON: I would -- I would disagree
with that, Your Honor.
The -- the State Supreme Court on page 171a
of the Petitioner's appendix specifically was citing to
Witt and the rules from Witt. And that includes the
rule that the trial judge's exclusion of a juror
constitutes a finding of fact.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought
Justice Stevens's articulation of Judge Kozinski's
opinion was exactly right but I thought you would in
response cite us to page 208a where the Washington
Supreme Court said that those jurors' views, including
Mr. Deal, would have prevented or substantially impaired
their ability to follow the court's instructions and
abide by their oaths as jurors.
It seems the court of appeals judge
overlooked that.
MR. SAMSON: They did, Your Honor. They
did. And that is a specific finding of fact by the
State Supreme Court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it a finding? It's
listed under "Summary and conclusions." Under
"Findings," I thought under "Findings" the -- the
findings were that he misunderstood the standard. He
said beyond a shadow of a doubt, rather than beyond a
reasonable doubt. And what other finding of fact was
there? Because this one is listed under conclusions.
"From the facts, I conclude that he would be impaired."
But the impairment is the conclusion from what facts?
MR. SAMSON: It is from all the facts that
the State Supreme Court had before it. It's
one-paragraph analysis of Mr. Deal did not lay out all
the facts that were before the court. And the statement
208-A, although it's listed as a conclusion, essentially
constitute a finding of fact. And even if this Court
were to say that is not a finding of fact, it contains
with it the implicit finding of fact.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, aren't we obliged
under AEDPA to give deference to any reasonable
conclusion from the facts?
MR. SAMSON: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So even if it is just a
conclusion, AEDPA still applies to it unless it's a
totally unreasonable conclusion, right?
MR. SAMSON: That's exactly right, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the point stands that
the court of appeals was just incorrect in, in, in not
noting what's there too late. It's just not a fair
summary of what the Washington Supreme Court did.
MR. SAMSON: Yes, Your Honor. The Ninth
Circuit found that the State courts made no Finding of
fact and, as Mr. Brown has essentially admitted in his
response brief, there are two State court findings of
fact, one by the Washington Supreme Court and one by the
trial judge.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is this something
particular under Washington procedure, this summary and
conclusions section at the end of the opinion?
MR. SAMSON: No, Your Honor. I think this
is more just the style of the justice who wrote the
opinion and how he writes his opinions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I take it your position is
that if the State courts had made or had expressed no
conclusion other than the final conclusion that he is
impaired, that that conclusion itself would be entitled
to AEDPA deference if the record could be read to
support it; is that correct?
MR. SAMSON: Yes, Your Honor. Yes, Your
Honor. The AEDPA --
JUSTICE SOUTER: If that's the case, then
AEDPA deference is more than deference, isn't it? AEDPA
deference has reached on your view the conclusion that
if there is any factual support in a record, the
ultimate conclusion of the court will be upheld, whereas
I thought AEDPA deference went to factfinding and to
express conclusions that the court drew.
MR. SAMSON: Your Honor, we're not saying
that there will never be a case where the deference
given to a trial judge and the deference given to a
State court in factual determinations can be overcome.
Certainly, it's hard to think of one, but there can be a
case where that deference could be overcome.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't this perhaps just
such a case? Because this finding by the Supreme Court
of the State is based only on the written record, so it
does not get any benefit of observing the demeanor of
the witness -- I mean, the demeanor of the prospective
juror; isn't that correct.
MR. SAMSON: It is correct the State Supreme
Court --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So if we disagreed and
thought there was not evidence in the written record
that would support that conclusion, we should not give
deference to that appellate court finding.
MR. SAMSON: Your Honor, but the appellate
court finding also was based on the trial court finding
of fact, and the State Supreme Court recognized, as this
Court did in Witt, that deference must be given to the
trial judge, who did have the opportunity to observe the
juror.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the trial judge made no
conclusion about demeanor. He didn't say anything about
demeanor, did he?
MR. SAMSON: No, Your Honor, and neither did
the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: If we're going to get --
that takes -- it seems to me it takes deference yet one
further step. We're saying that even if there is
nothing on the record about demeanor, we are supposed to
assume that a trial judge drew a conclusion based on
demeanor. I mean, that is not deference. I mean,
that's simply imputing fiction.
MR. SAMSON: Your Honor, there's no evidence
on demeanor because the defense counsel did not object.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why is it the defense
counsel's obligation to object? It seems to me that if
the State is objecting, saying I want this juror
removed, and the trial judge is saying, okay, I will
remove him, that there is an obligation to make a
record.
MR. SAMSON: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Wouldn't there be? I guess
my point is if there isn't, then in effect you are
making the defendant responsible for creating a record
to support what the other side asks for.
MR. SAMSON: Your Honor, as this Court
explained in Witt, when there is no objection or no
dispute as to the factual issue in the trial court, the
judge has to reason to elaborate on his finding and
therefore he has no obligation to do so.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that means that the,
that the argument for sustaining the trial judge's
action on the ground that the trial judge could observe
demeanor in effect is the elimination of judicial review
on that subject, because we know that if the venire
person was present in the courtroom and the judge was
present in the courtroom, the judge probably looked at
him, and if that is enough to sustain judicial action on
the grounds that we defer to demeanor then there's no
judicial review at all. I think that's what Judge
Kozinski said.
MR. SAMSON: Your Honor, if there is
absolutely no evidence to support the trial judge's
conclusion in the record --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm talking about demeanor.
I'm talking about demeanor. And there's nothing as I
understand it on the record about demeanor.
MR. SAMSON: Yes, Your Honor. In Marshall
versus Lonberger the Court said there is no requirement
for explicit finding as to credibility.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And if there is no
requirement that there be anything on the record about
demeanor, then there is no judicial review on that point
at all, is there?
MR. SAMSON: Not on demeanor, but there can
be judicial review on the other facts that are presented
in the record.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course there is on
demeanor. I mean, I suppose, to begin with, is it not
the case that the burden is on the habeas applicant to
show that demeanor did not make the difference? It's
the burden on him to show that it was an unreasonable
determination.
MR. SAMSON: It is the burden on him to
present clear and convincing evidence.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And the question --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And secondly, he could
present such evidence if he showed that there was
absolutely no ambiguity in what the person's statements
said, so that demeanor could not have made a difference.
But in a case where the statements are seemingly
contradictory or arguably contradictory, demeanor is
very relevant and it's the burden, it seems to me, of
the Petitioner to show that demeanor wasn't what made
the difference.
And besides which, wasn't there some part of
the record that you referred to where he said "and I
believe him"?
MR. SAMSON: Yes, Your Honor. That's as to
a different juror when there was an objection, and
because there was no objection there was no obligation.
If I may --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is there any way that he
can show that demeanor didn't make a difference when the
record is absolutely silent on demeanor? Is there any
way he can show that?
MR. SAMSON: Your Honor, he could attempt to
bring evidence in a State court collateral -- he
actually filed a motion for reconsideration as to
another juror. He did not do that in this case.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask to be sure I
understand the record, because I did miss something
before. Did the trial judge say in so many words that
Deal's views would have prevented or substantially
impaired his ability to follow the court's instructions
and abide by the rules of the jurors?
MR. SAMSON: The trial judge made no such
express finding because there was no objection raised.
And if I may reserve --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So that's the point of the
absence of objection. That's why he didn't make the
critical finding.
MR. SAMSON: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Because the judge didn't
make the critical finding.
MR. SAMSON: He would have made a finding if
there was an objection.
If I may reserve --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You may reserve the
remainder of your time for rebuttal.
MR. SAMSON: Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Dreeben.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Please finish up the
thought because you're equally well prepared. How do we
know the trial judge would have made that a finding if
there had been an objection?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Stevens, this is a
record in which the trial judge showed that he was
meticulously careful in applying the standard from
Wainwright versus Witt. In the joint appendix, I
believe at pages 7 through 9, there's an extensive
discussion of how the judge is going to apply the Witt
standard evenhandedly. He's going to eliminate those
jurors who are like-biased. He's going to eliminate
those jurors who --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Does that respond to the
possible suggestion that Judge Kozinski made that what
he really did was act on the basis of no objection,
rather than on the basis of a finding that he failed to
make?
MR. DREEBEN: I don't think so,
Justice Stevens, because it's very clear that he told
the parties, if you have any question, if you have any
problem with any of the objections that are made, speak
up and I will intervene and question the juror myself
and clarify it.
And this is a judge who, against the
background of the entire voir dire, clearly was making a
good faith effort to apply the Witt standard. There
were 12 objections by the prosecution to various jurors
that they should be excused for cause because of
inability to apply the law as Washington gives it. The
defense objected, I believe, to seven of those; and the
prosecution lost on five of those occasions.
So the judge basically went with the defense
when the defense spoke up and objected. There were two
jurors that were excused over the defense objection.
The transcript is also in the voir dire on those and it
shows that the defense objected and said these jurors
can apply the standard under the law, and the judge
found that they could not and excused them.
In the case of Juror Deal there is no
absolutely reason to believe that the judge wouldn't
have done exactly the same thing if the defense had
objected.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what is -- I know,
Justice Breyer; just on this point. The defense
actually volunteered "no objection."
MR. DREEBEN: Said "We have no objection."
And I think that this is one of the three significant
legal errors that the Ninth Circuit made in disposing of
this challenge. This Court made clear in Wainwright
versus Witt that the absence of a defense objection is
very critical in assessing whether a judge's implied
finding of bias is to be upheld on appeal. And it's for
the reason that my colleague mentioned in part: If the
judge is not asked to give a fuller explanation, there
is no reason --
JUSTICE BREYER: What has this to do with
the -- aside from the explanation, when I read through
the transcript, as I have, it seemed to me in the
transcript he didn't say a word that suggested he's
against giving the death penalty. He kept saying yeah,
in special circumstances, not always. Then they get
into this thing where he's been thinking of a person who
will in fact commit a crime again. And then it's put to
him directly: Have you thought about that he won't be
committing a crime again if he's in jail the rest of his
life. He says: You're right; I hadn't really thought
it through.
I want to know, thinking it through, could
you consider the death penalty? Do you think under the
conditions where the man would never get out again you
could impose it? Yes, sir.
So you don't think that if parole was an
option, etcetera, repeating it. Death penalty? I could
consider it. Then could you impose it? I could if I
was convinced that was the appropriate measure.
And it's absolutely clear he's not thinking
of the repetition. It is clear he is thinking that it's
some kind of a mean. And I compare that with Witt,
where the person just says no, I can't, and I compared
it with this other case, Gray, and they say it's illegal
to push him off a jury, a woman who is confused, and
finally she says: I think I could.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, I think your
question goes to the heart of the case.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's probably
right.
MR. DREEBEN: But the reason it goes to the
heart of the case, Justice Breyer, is that you and I and
every other appellate lawyer and judge who have looked
at this is dealing with a cold record, but the only
person who actually saw and heard this juror give the
responses was the trial judge.
JUSTICE BREYER: So what is it that he could
have done? Was he shaking, making faces? Was he
shaking his head to indicate he believed the opposite?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: If something like that
happened, isn't a prosecutor of any sense going to say,
I want it noted for the record that the witness while he
said these words was chortling inwardly or something
like that?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Breyer, there
were five separate occasions during Juror Deal's voir
dire in which he expressed either uncertainty or a
misconception about what the death penalty should be
exposed for when measured against Washington law.
And the overarching point that I make before
I talk about those five instances is that this is a
record in which there is confusion and uncertainty about
whether Juror Deal really can adhere to the law. And in
those circumstances, the only judge who can truly
resolve that and determine whether he should be credited
is the trial judge. And this Court has made that point
over and over again in describing its voir dire.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If there is confusion, is
that grounds for excluding him?
MR. DREEBEN: Confusion alone is not. If
it's confusion it must rise to a level of preventing or
impairing the juror's ability to follow the law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But even at this point,
this juror, he doesn't know anything about aggravating
circumstances. He doesn't know about mitigating
circumstances. He hasn't been told what the standards
of -- that it was beyond a reasonable doubt.
And to say that he should be criticized
because when he was asked to give an example he said one
thing and not another, it seems if you just read the
transcript, that there's nothing disqualifying. So as
you said, everything is the weight falls on the
demeanor, which an appellate court can't review.
MR. DREEBEN: I think that that's right,
Justice Ginsburg. It doesn't mean that there is no
judicial review at all, in response to Justice Souter's
question and I think the concern underlying your own.
There has to be fair support in the record for the
conclusion that the trial judge could have resolved the
question of a juror's competence to sit in the way that
he did.
And if you had a record in which everything
that juror said was consistent with complying with State
law, which I don't think this record is, and the
prosecutor objected, and the judge says granted, and
there's no explanation, I think that would be difficult
to uphold, even if it is possible that everyone in the
courtroom knew that the judge was relying on demeanor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is there anything in this
record to indicate that the judge did rely on demeanor?
MR. DREEBEN: What is -- no. There's
nothing explicit. But this Court has said over and over
again that there does not have to be because in this
case, in particular, since there was no objection, the
judge did not elaborate on his reasons at all. But the
Court has gone further in Witt and in Darden and
building on cases like Patton versus Yount, and made
clear that it is implicit in a judge's action in
response to an objection that he has relied on the
totality of the law and his observations.
And here there were two instances during the
defense colloquy in which the juror specifically said
that his example of when the death penalty is
appropriate is a circumstance when somebody is
incorrigible and will reoffend if released. And then
three times during the prosecution's voir dire, he
volunteered, first of all, that it would have to be in
my mind very obvious that the person would reoffend.
And this was a particularly significant answer because
it wasn't given in response to a death penalty question,
it was given in response to whether he could apply the
reasonable doubt standard to the crime.
He again comes back to the reoffend notion
after having State law explained to him again, and said,
could you consider imposing the death penalty, he said I
have to give that some thought.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But he had not been given,
as I understand it, the explanation of what the -- I
keep saying nine factors. Whatever the enumerated State
factors were. He had not been told that at any point,
had he?
MR. DREEBEN: No, but I think the important
point, Justice Souter, is that under Washington law
there were really two alternatives, life without parole
or death.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yeah, but the -- the
questioning was what grounds are you going to look to
make that decision; and he had not been instructed on
Washington law on that at all.
MR. DREEBEN: The concern that I think the
prosecutor had and that the judge accepted is that this
juror's vision of when capital punishment is appropriate
is when somebody will get out and kill again. And under
that analysis, you would never impose capital punishment
under Washington law, because the defendant is never
going to get --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But doesn't it follow that
his limited cases, the views about when the death
penalty is appropriate would translate into views of
whether he could or could not impose the death penalty
if instructed properly by the court?
MR. DREEBEN: Not -- not automatically,
Justice Stevens. I mean, this is an juror --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Doesn't it have to be
automatic in order to justify the result in this case?
MR. DREEBEN: No. What has to be the case,
and this Court in Witt made clear it is not going to
apply an unmistakable certainty requirement, is that the
judge has to conclude that juror's views would prevent
or substantially impair juror in applying the law. And
the judge had to make a call based on what he saw and
what none of us did, of whether this juror's views --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't there a world of
difference, at least it has been my experience in trials
like this of what a juror will do on his own and what he
thinks the law might be, and what is fair, and so forth,
as opposed to what a, the juror will do in response to
proper instructions?
MR. DREEBEN: Yeah.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The jurors mostly are
pretty conscientious.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, they there are. And --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is there any reason to
believe this guy wasn't?
MR. DREEBEN: Well the judge found one. By
excusing him after having --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well -- without -- because
there was no objection.
MR. DREEBEN: Well he made clear, if I may
conclude, he made clear at the outset as I think I did
when I started my presentation, that this record shows a
judge who was conscientiously applying the Witt
standard.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dreeben.
Ms. Elliott.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MS. SUZANNE LEE ELLIOTT,
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MS. ELLIOTT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court.
There were in our view two findings by the
Washington courts here. The first by the trial court is
objectively, an objectively unreasonable determination
of the facts in light of the evidence presented, and
thus the writ should be granted under 50 -- 28 --
2254(d)(2)? And the supreme court's decision -- and
I'll get to a moment to where I think their decision is,
in the record, which conflicts with the State's view of
where that is -- was an unreasonable application of this
Court's controlling precedent in Witt versus
Witherspoon.
And I would direct the Court to, in terms of
the State Supreme Court's finding, to page 173a of the
appendix of the Petition for certiorari. But I would,
of course, first like to start with the actual record in
this case.
In this case, the Washington State trial
court's decision to excuse juror Deal for cause was be
objectively unreasonable based upon the record, because
juror Deal said many times on the record, when presented
with the question of whether or not he could impose the
death penalty under the sketchy view he had of
Washington State's statutory capital punishment scheme,
that he could do so.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's the
beginning of the questioning, isn't it? It is not the
end of it. It is surely not the law that just, whenever
a juror says sure, I'll follow the instructions, that
he's automatically -- has to be seated?
MS. ELLIOTT: No, Your Honor. But it went
beyond that. And at page 73 of the joint appendix, the
very question was put to him by the prosecutor. "Now
that you know that in Washington, if you find the
defendant guilty, you're only going to have two choices,
the death penalty or life in prison without the
possibility of parole, could you still consider under
the appropriate evidence imposing the death penalty?"
And Mr. Deal said, "I could consider it. Yes."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: After several times
saying the only time he would consider it is if the
person is going to reoffend. I mean, if he just gets
the right answer once out of six times and it's the last
time, is the judge required to ignore the prior
colloquy?
MS. ELLIOTT: No, Your Honor, but I don't
think he only said it once out of those times. Judge
Kozinski identified in his opinion six times, and those
are found on the record of proceedings at page 62, at
page 72, and again at page 73. And he was repeatedly
asked, and one time he was asked first I'm going to ask
you if you could consider it -- this is on page 72 and
then I'm going to ask you if you could impose it? Even
if he would never get out.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But look at page --
look at page 262. He says, you know, could -- could
you -- when do you think the death penalty is
appropriate? If the person would reviolate if released.
MS. ELLIOTT: But that is one of, under --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There are others.
MS. ELLIOTT: -- Washington law it's an
appropriate consideration. And that's the -- and then
that was the example he gave, but he didn't say but I'm
never going to do it, if he -- if my only choice is
death or life in prison.
And I think that the State's reading of the
voir dire here actually expands both the objection made
by the prosecutor and the -- the substance of the
colloquy with juror Deal.
JUSTICE ALITO: What do you make of the fact
that twice just before his final statement he's given
exactly the question whether he could -- whether he
impose the death penalty in any situation other than
when the person might get out and kill again, and he --
his answers are at best equivocal. The first time he
says I would have to give that some thought. That's on
72. And then he says I do feel that way if parole is an
option. Without parole as an option I believe in the
death penalty. Which is totally ambiguous. What do you
make of those answers?
MS. ELLIOTT: I make of those answers as
being entirely appropriate under the questions given and
also demonstrating that he's clearly not a juror who is
substantially impaired or whose views would prevent him
from considering the instructions that would be given to
him at the end of this case. If fact include him as a
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the -- what
if the voir dire -- what if the juror said just what he
said on a few occasions, that I would consider it if the
person would reviolate? And that was all. That would
be a basis for excusing him?
MS. ELLIOTT: Under your hypothetical, no.
If, however, he said I will never impose the death
penalty if the only choice is life without and the death
penalty, I think that would be problematic under
Washington law.
But he never said that. That's the reading
the State gives his voir dire but it's not there.
Because that would prevent him from making the decision
that Washington requires.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you -- you -- you
insist that he come out and say in so many words, I am
going to be an unreliable juror. That's -- that's not
the way it happens. And somebody has to evaluate
whether indeed he's shading the truth a little bit and
whether, in fact, he will be impaired in his service.
And some of these -- some of these answers suggest that.
And it, it is not an easy call to simply say well, you
know, unless he comes out and admits yes, I'm going to
be a lousy juror, nobody is going to say that.
MS. ELLIOTT: Well, Your Honor, I agree that
nobody is going to say that, although in other cases, in
other records and other cases cited by the State here,
in fact, trial judges have made records of those kinds
of situations, which are not present here. And in fact,
for example, I believe it was Gray versus Mississippi,
the judge got the feeling that jurors were giving
answers that would get them off the panel.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why was there no
objection if this was so clear? If this fellow had
answered all the questions the way you expect a, a good
juror to answer, why was there no objection when the
State moved to dismiss him?
MS. ELLIOTT: It is not required under
Washington law. And, in fact --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It may well be objected,
there were 12 instances --
MS. ELLIOTT: That is corrected.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- in which the prosecutor
wanted to excuse; in seven of those, there was an
objection.
MS. ELLIOTT: That's correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So he certainly knew how
to object. And you absolutely trap the trial judge here
by not indicating to him that he should make some
further finding. In fact, the -- the -- the lawyer
doesn't just remain silent. He's standing and says I
have no objection.
MS. ELLIOTT: Well the question --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Judge Kozinski thought
the reason there was no objection was that this juror
came across as being pro-death penalty. Isn't that what
he said?
MS. ELLIOTT: That's what he said. I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't go as far
as Judge Kozinski?
(Laughter.)
MS. ELLIOTT: On two points I don't go as
far as Judge Kozinski. One, I believe that actually
there has to be some deference to implicit findings; let
me clarify that, and I know the State has pointed that
out. I think Judge Kozinski's language was a little
loose there. I think he probably agrees with me.
As to the -- the failure to object, first of
all, if the court says, first of all, are there any
objections; now again we have admitted that what he said
was I have no objection. But the -- under Washington
law, the prosecutor, the judge, and the defense attorney
all knew that this issue could be raised for the first
time on appeal.
The prosecutor -- and I'm not saying on
habeas review, but in the trial court, a challenge for
cause, the burden falls on the prosecutor to articulate
a basis.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's fine. But,
but competent counsel knows that getting something
overturned on appeal is a lot harder than getting it
done right the first time. And he also knows that if
you raise an objection, you're more likely get it done
right.
I can't imagine why if he thought this
person was not properly strikeable he would have sat --
indeed not just sat silent but said I have no objection.
It just doesn't make any sense.
MS. ELLIOTT: Well I think he made a
mistake, then.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, he made the same
mistake the judge did. I wonder who else was there that
made the same mistake. I mean, you know, it makes you
think maybe, maybe the judge was right.
MS. ELLIOTT: Well, Your Honor, the only
basis we have for the trial judge's ruling is the
objection made by the prosecutor. And the -- assuming
he incorporated that as the basis for his ruling. What
prosecutor said was that -- he had two rulings. First,
he said I think he's overcome his problem with the
explanation about reasonable doubt. And so that's not
an issue in this case. And he said, and I don't think
he has said anything that overcame this idea that, of he
must kill again before he imposed the death penalty or
be in a position to kill again.
That, it's our position is incorrect,
under -- an incorrect summation of what happened in the
voir dire and, in fact --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where -- where are you
quoting from?
MS. ELLIOTT: I'm quoting from page 675.
Which is Mr. Matthews --
JUSTICE SCALIA: 75 of the --
MS. ELLIOTT: Of the joint appendix. Which
is Mr. Matthews' objection. And the court makes
basically an unadorned grant of objection that for
cause.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And incidentally the court
did not say are there any objections? The court did not
say that.
MS. ELLIOTT: I'm sorry, Your Honor. The
court says -- uh -- the bailiff will excuse you.
Counsel, any challenge to this particular juror? That's
at the bottom of page 64. And then what Mr. Mulligan
says is we have no objection.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but the court didn't
say is there an objection? So you're incorrect.
MS. ELLIOTT: I'm sorry. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now on the that,
just the language you just focused on, on page 75, if
that was correct, you disagree with it, but if if the
court concluded that the juror had not overcome the idea
that he must kill again before imposing the death
penalty, that would be a sufficient basis for excusing
him?
MS. ELLIOTT: Under Washington law, I think
there would be a sufficient basis for excusing juror
Deal if he said I now know what the statutory scheme is,
and only if there's some possibility for release of
Mr. Brown and the opportunity for him to kill again,
would I impose the death penalty.
We know that would prevent him from imposing
Washington's statutory scheme because once finding him
guilty, the juror will never be released again. So the
possibility of release would not be there. And so he
would reject the notion that you must consider
mitigating factors if there's no possibility of release.
We argue in our brief that that's not what
he said. And in fact, Juror Deal was a thinking juror,
a juror who could, in fact, consider all of the options.
We disagree, of course, with the prosecutor's summary
that this concern about recidivism was somehow central
or pivotal to Juror Deal.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You think he could have
imposed the death penalty in this case?
MS. ELLIOTT: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's the harm then in
replacing him, from your standpoint?
MS. ELLIOTT: The harm?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're complaining about
the excusal of a juror who by your own submission would
impose the death penalty. So why am I here?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because you don't know
him.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I would like to hear the
answer.
MS. ELLIOTT: My answer is because it's a
constitutional issue and this juror could also have
considered the mitigating circumstances that would have
been proposed by the -- at that stage that were clearly
on the table for argument in front of the jury at the
penalty phase.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You, according to this
structural error, so you have a death case, and so you
have this kind of error you don't have to prove.
MS. ELLIOTT: Under Gray versus Mississippi,
I don't have to -- Mr. Brown does not have to prove that
it's harmless.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And then you're zeroing
in on this particular juror and the colloquy, but
shouldn't we look at the entire proceeding of the
jurors, including that there were -- what was it --
seven attempts by the prosecutor to have a for cause
excusal?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: There were actually 12, I
think. Weren't there 12 objections by the prosecution?
I was going to ask, we've already destroyed the rebuttal
time of your colleagues, but it seems to me that this is
a large number of challenges by the prosecutor. Can you
comment on that? 12? I mean, the defense objected to
seven, and five objections were sustained.
MS. ELLIOTT: I can't say in the vast
universe of capital cases in Washington whether that's
extraordinary or not.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Thank you.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How many days did this
take?
MS. ELLIOTT: 17, I believe.
JUSTICE SCALIA: 17 days? Less than one a
day. That's pretty good.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah. How many
paraded by? I mean, do we know?
MS. ELLIOTT: I didn't count on a daily
basis, Your Honor. In a quality case in Washington, 17
days is probably pretty average, maybe a little short.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it does seem that
this trial judge was doing a conscientious job. He
granted five of the -- rejected five of the
prosecutor's, and how many of those had been where
defense counsel had objected?
MS. ELLIOTT: I think seven.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He objected in seven and
in five of those --
MS. ELLIOTT: No. He objected to 12, and
seven of those were granted, that's my understanding.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, I'm not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. I think the
prosecution challenged 12 times. There were seven
objections. Five were sustained.
MS. ELLIOTT: Excuse me. I'm sorry, Your
Honor. I misunderstood your question.
So yeah, I don't disagree that this Court
should look at the entire record of voir dire, and I
don't disagree that Judge Martinez is a conscientious
trial judge. The problem in this case is that when he
granted the challenge for cause to this juror, he did
not and he could not find that this juror was
substantially impaired. He could not -- he was not
prevented from following Washington law.
The --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In your view, do we
look at this any differently through AEDPA than if we
were looking at this on direct review?
MS. ELLIOTT: Well, yes. I mean, you have
to view it through the lens of the statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that makes a
difference in the standard of review that we apply in
this case?
MS. ELLIOTT: Well, there is -- prior to the
enactment of AEDPA, there was -- this Court said you
give deference to the trial court's findings. AEDPA
has, of course, codified that deference by saying that
the trial judge has to be objectively unreasonable based
upon the facts developed at the trial court level.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, does that mean
we give a greater degree of deference?
MS. ELLIOTT: I don't think this Court has
said what, on balance, what the difference between the
kind of deference that was required under Witherspoon
is, as laid against the kind of deference now. It's
clear Congress wanted to provide a substantial amount of
deference to the trial court and limited habeas review
of State court decisions. But as Judge Kozinski pointed
out in his opinion in this case, that didn't mean that
they were going to completely eliminate Federal habeas
review.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm just trying to
get a handle on your view as to whether the standard of
review with respect to deference to the State court is
different in this respect than it would be on direct
review?
MS. ELLIOTT: Yes. I think under habeas
review, it's a more substantial review, because we have
to show not only that the findings were unreasonable but
they were objectively unreasonable, which I think is a
different standard than saying you give deference to the
trial court.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask, one of the most
troubling parts about this case is the failure to
object. As I understand, under Washington law, that
doesn't making any difference, the review is exactly the
same as it would have been if there had been an
objection. But under our review as a matter of
constitutional law, should it make a difference?
MS. ELLIOTT: I don't think so. I think
it's one of those peculiarities of Washington law that
you should give respect to, but it is essentially
meaningless in the context of this case, because all the
parties knew this case was going to be reviewed and
reviewed. I mean, there's automatic appellate review.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you have any response
to Justice Kennedy's concern that this really allows for
a mouse trapping of the trial judge who very likely
would have paid less attention to the issue as long as
any counsel doesn't object, just as a realistic way that
this kind of thing is handled?
MS. ELLIOTT: Well, I respect his concerns
about bushwhacking or mouse trapping, but the fact of
the matter is that that's Washington law and the judge
was well aware of it, as were the parties.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, let me put it to you
this way: There's no demeanor finding here. Suppose
the judge had made a demeanor finding. That would be
different, the case would be a different case, wouldn't
it?
MS. ELLIOTT: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And if the objection is
what prevents the demeanor finding, then maybe we should
be able to consider the fact there was no objection,
even though Washington law doesn't require it before we
consider the issue.
MS. ELLIOTT: But there's nothing in the
record that says that the reason that the judge didn't
mention the demeanor, or the prosecutor who made the
objection didn't mention demeanor. Certainly, it seems
to me that if demeanor had been a concern based upon the
answers given by the juror here, and because the
prosecutor had the laboring oar at the trial court to
provide a basis for the challenge for cause, he would
mention it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your
brother made the point that there was a more elaborate
explanation of the trial judge's determinations when
there had been an objection.
MS. ELLIOTT: I do believe that he had a
more lengthy explanation where there were objections.
But whether or not that would have -- there was
something in the demeanor of this particular judge here
that he simply didn't mention, it can't be found here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but he said for one
of the other witnesses, I just don't -- I don't believe
him. And if that had been his problem here, he
presumably would have said the same thing.
MS. ELLIOTT: Well, presumably then, he
would have said that in response to the prosecutor's
objections, which was not that we don't believe that
Juror Deal could be credible.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not if there's no opposing
objection by defense counsel. When there was, and when
part of his reason for granting the motion to strike the
juror was demeanor, he mentioned demeanor.
MS. ELLIOTT: That's correct, and here he
didn't. So I think the assumption was, he was granting
the objection on the basis provided by Mr. Matthews,
which was incorrect both under Washington law and under
the facts developed in the voir dire.
JUSTICE BREYER: The law on this, and you've
read the cases more recent probably -- I've skimmed
through some but not read them all, as I'm sure you
have. And the statement of the law that I want to know,
is it still valid law, is in Witherspoon on 522, Justice
Stewart in the footnote. And what he says in that
footnote is, "the most that can be demanded of a venire
man in this regard is that he be willing to consider,"
and those are his italics, "to consider all of the
penalties provided by State law, and that he not be
irrevocably committed before the trial has begun to vote
against the penalty of death, regardless of the facts
and circumstances that might emerge. If the voir dire
testimony in a given case indicates that venire men were
excluded on any broader basis than this, the defendant's
sentence cannot be carried out." Is that still a valid
statement of the law or has it changed?
MS. ELLIOTT: That is still a valid
statement of the law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of what law?
JUSTICE BREYER: Of Washington law. No,
this is Justice Stewart of the Supreme Court.
MS. ELLIOTT: This Court, which has been
shortened into a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Substantially
impaired.
MS. ELLIOTT: -- substantially impaired
test.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which is a lot
different than irrevocably committed.
MS. ELLIOTT: Well, it's substantially
impaired to prevent or substantially impaired, the
ability. And this juror never --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You would agree that
substantially impaired is not the same as irrevocably
committed?
MS. ELLIOTT: Yes, I would agree, because
you could say I favor the death penalty, as this juror
did, and still sit on the jury.
JUSTICE BREYER: This doesn't say -- that's
one of the things it says. But the other is, "the most
that can be demanded of a venire man is that he be
willing to consider" -- that's the word that's
italicized -- now, is there any -- "and if you exclude
him on a broader ground than that, the death sentence
cannot be carried out". Now, is there anything in any
later case that suggests a change in that respect?
MS. ELLIOTT: No, Your Honor. In fact, the
cases affirm that. And in fact, this juror was
precisely the kind of juror that I think was appropriate
to sit. What he said was, I can consider.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, he said that, but
elsewhere he sort of indicated that he couldn't consider
it unless it were a situation in which this person would
be able to commit the crime again.
MS. ELLIOTT: But none of those statements
indicated he would be prevented from voting for the
death penalty, or that he was substantially impaired
from doing that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They did indicate that
unless that was the situation, he wouldn't consider
imposing the death penalty. I think that's precisely
what they indicated.
MS. ELLIOTT: Well, if it means only that he
would consider the issue of future dangerousness, it
wouldn't prevent him under Washington law. Because
under Washington law, first of all, the presumption is
for life. And second of all, the consideration of
whether or not a person would recidivate is both an
aggravating and a mitigating factor. So the fact that
he's concerned about reoffense is perfectly appropriate.
Where I think he could be prevented is if he
said, if this -- unless this guy is going to be released
in the future, and I don't think that's what he said
here, Your Honor. What he said was, recidivism is
important.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I like recidivate by the
way. I'm going to use it in the opinion. It's a very
useful verb.
JUSTICE STEVENS: If I can get back to my
concern about the failure to object again. Supposing
this defense counsel instead of just saying no
objection, said no objection, I think he's a hanging
juror?
MS. ELLIOTT: I think he's a hanging juror?
JUSTICE STEVENS: In other words, he thought
contrary to the prosecutor, his appraisal of this man
was that he's going to be pro-death penalty, and he let
that be known. Would that make a difference?
MS. ELLIOTT: Well, I think that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I don't think it would
under Washington law. I don't suppose it would.
MS. ELLIOTT: Well, if the juror said -- it
would make a difference under Morgan if the juror said
I'm not going to consider any mitigating factor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, no. The juror just
did what he did, but everybody was evaluating his
demeanor in the courtroom, and defense counsel's
evaluation was to mean I don't want that juror, he's
going to hang my client, and that's what he thought and
he let it come out when he told the judge no objection.
MS. ELLIOTT: Oh.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would that make a
difference?
MS. ELLIOTT: It wouldn't make a difference
under Washington law because it could be raised for the
first time on appeal, yes, if that wasn't what the
record demonstrated.
Did I understand your question?
JUSTICE STEVENS: You did. Do you think it
should make a difference to us if we think that he
didn't really want this guy on the jury?
MS. ELLIOTT: I don't think there's anything
in the record to suggest that, but for lack of his
objection. Because there's no harmless error analysis,
I don't think it can make a difference to this Court,
and because in Washington we have this peculiar rule
which says you don't have to object.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does the fact that this is
structural error, that there's no harmless error
analysis, mean that we should be very careful to give
substance to the rule that there's deference to the
trial judge? And in fact, in the Witt case, we said
that the determination to excuse a juror is based on
determinations of demeanor and credibility that are
within the trial judge's province. We said that.
MS. ELLIOTT: Absolutely. And if there had
been a mention of demeanor on this record, I think this
Court's decision would be easy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What presumes that there
is that judgment made by the district judge, whether or
not it's mentioned? It was not mentioned in Witt.
MS. ELLIOTT: Well, what Judge Kozinski says
about that is if on the record -- you have a cold record
here which demonstrates in our view that the juror is
completely qualified to serve, and nothing about him
would prevent him from serving. And you have no mention
of demeanor by the trial judge, but speculation on the
part of the prosecution, then all substantive evidence
review of juror challenges in capital cases is dead and
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Should defer to Judge
Kozinski's observation or to the Supreme Court in Witt?
MS. ELLIOTT: You should defer to the
Supreme Court's observation in Witt, but only I think if
there's some indication on the record that there is
demeanor. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there's a
third choice which under AEDPA is the Washington State
court decision to which we should defer.
MS. ELLIOTT: The Washington State Supreme
Court decision?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MS. ELLIOTT: The Washington State Supreme
Court decision suffers a different problem, I think,
Your Honor, which is that what the Washington State
Supreme Court said on page 173 was that on voir dire he
indicated he would impose the death penalty where the
defendant, quote, "would reviolate if released," which
is not a correct statement of the law. And in fact,
that is -- the considerations about whether or not
Mr. Brown would reviolate whether in prison or not are
considerations under Washington law in a death penalty
case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: On page 208, though,
the Washington Supreme Court also stated the standard,
as I understand it from Witt, that Mr. Deal's views
would have prevented or substantially impaired his
ability to follow the court's instructions.
MS. ELLIOTT: But -- I agree that there is a
summary that says that. But the substantive basis for
the trial court' decision I think is back at page, as I
said, 173a, where he --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't the number of the
page that you gave telling this is an appeal from a
capital sentence, and there are umpteen challenges made.
So the judge is dealing with Richard Deal in one
paragraph. The defendant raised a host of challenges,
and so there's not perfect consistency with what these
two passages in the opinion. But mustn't we take into
account what this was? It was the defense brought out
every objection they probably could conceive of and they
didn't put particular emphasis on this, so it comes out
this way.
MS. ELLIOTT: Well, if you're -- you mean in
terms of the -- in the trial court? Or in the State
Supreme Court decision?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In the Supreme Court.
Now we're talking about the Washington Supreme Court.
You said they got it wrong because they said in this
paragraph that he got the law you wrong, he made an
incorrect statement of the law because he said he would
impose the death penalty where the defendant would
reviolate if released, which is not a correct statement
of the law.
We don't know exactly what that court meant
by that paragraph, but we do know that the Washington
Supreme Court was basing -- I don't know how many
objections they were dealing with in this opinion, but a
great many.
MS. ELLIOTT: Yes, and so if you then turn
to the end of the opinion, if that's what you're asking,
at 208, there's kind of a summary of their basis for all
of the challenges made by Mr. Brown to all sorts of
things in the case.
There were also challenges to other jurors
as well. And there are separate paragraphs where the
court -- those jurors that are mentioned in the summary
paragraph, where the court then explains the various
reasons why it's upholding the trial judge as to those
jurors as well.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, my point is simply
that where the court is faced with so many challenges,
this particular one, there had been no objection at the
trial. So an appellate court might think we don't want
to spend too much time on that one.
MS. ELLIOTT: That is true. It appears as
though what they did was to, because this is not what
the trial judge said, this is the basis for the
objection by the prosecutor, that they assumed the trial
judge adopted the prosecutor's objection.
In sum, there's nothing in the record that
supports a conclusion here that Juror Deal could not
subordinate his personal views about the death penalty
or that he would frustrate the State's legitimate
purpose in carrying out the State's legitimate interest
in a constitutional capital death penalty scheme. So we
would ask this Court to affirm the opinion of Judge
Kozinski in the Ninth Circuit and grant the writ of
habeas corpus in this case. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Elliott.
Mr. Samson, you have one minute remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. SAMSON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SAMSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
In response to the questions regarding the
Witherspoon language and whether it's still good law,
the Court in Witt essentially said that is no longer the
standard. The standard instead is the substantial
impairment standard, and it is not required to show that
the juror would never impose the death penalty or
automatically vote against it by unmistakable clarity.
And the fact that there were -- in response
to Justice Ginsburg's question, the fact that there were
so many claims presented to the State Supreme Court may
explain in part the summary opinion regarding this
particular issue. AEDPA does not require a perfect
opinion by the State court to survive review. It only
requires reasonableness and an objective standard.
In addition, the arguments presented by
Mr. Brown are essentially: We disagree and the Federal
courts should disagree with the factfinding process done
by the State courts. But the fact that a reviewing
court reviewing the same transcript may reach a
different factual determination is not sufficient. If
the view reached by the State court is supported by
evidence and is -- thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:00 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
26:6 27:9,16 B brief 8:22 13:4
24:14 19:16 32:13 48:4,25 26:15 49:9 bring 18:15
52:23 amount 42:19 appropriately 53:1 broader 46:19
12:7 27:11 approximately 20:20 brother 45:5
56:16 answer 26:11 April 1:10 balance 42:16 Brown 1:7 3:4
39:9,10 argue 38:16 14:12,23 15:12 38:8 39:20
18:12 answers 32:6,11 2:2,5,9,12 3:3 42:11 44:24 56:6
22:21 32:12 33:14,25 3:6 16:9 19:15 51:3 building 25:24
51:6 44:25 29:4 39:14 basically 21:2 burden 17:12,14
50:11 11:9 36:14,16 38:2 C
53:4 aside 22:2 38:5 40:22 C 2:1 3:1
appellate 14:21 assessing 21:21 1:22 2:4,7,11 55:6
13:18,21 54:19 assume 15:12 believe 18:5 carried 46:20
14:2 appendix 7:1,13 assumed 4:14 20:3,25 21:10 47:25
42:8,9 11:4 20:2 54:24 28:16 32:9 carrying 55:5
56:2 29:21 30:13 assuming 36:15 33:23 35:6 case 4:6,15 6:6
48:24 application 4:8 attempt 18:14 believed 7:2,7 17:12,23 18:17
47:13,16 applies 12:18 attorney 1:16 best 4:12 32:6 27:22,23 29:23
apply 8:3 20:4 35:15 beyond 11:25,25 29:24 32:17
20:1 28:2,24 55:22 Breyer 21:14 44:12,12 46:18
54:9 Circuit's 3:10 complaining 47:22 48:5,7 course 6:13
56:14,15 circumstance 39:3 48:15,19 49:24 17:10 29:22
33:19,20 circumstances completely 31:18 48:22 court 1:1,13 3:9
46:6 22:6 24:6,17 42:23 51:15 considerations 3:18,23 4:2,3,4
51:19 24:18 39:12 complying 52:15,17 8:3 9:6,7,11
35:20 cite 11:11 conceive 53:11 39:12 11:12,16,20
40:1 cited 33:20 concern 25:4 considering 12:6,8,10,23
45:2 citing 11:4 27:7 38:20 32:16 12:25 13:4,5
34:15 35:8 concerned 48:25 constitute 12:10 14:25 16:3,5
clarity 55:22 concerns 44:5 constitutes 11:7 17:1 18:15
35:19 27:24 28:21,22 conclusion 3:10 contains 12:11 29:19 35:12,19
41:19 34:2 42:19 12:4,9,15,18 context 43:21 37:8,11,12,15
clearly 4:8 8:22 12:19 13:16,16 contradictory 37:19,25 41:15
39:13 14:20 15:4,12 contrary 4:3 42:21 43:2,10
53:5,7 COBURN 1:7 55:2 controlling 50:20 51:22
codified 42:10 conclusions 29:17 52:4,6,9,11,20
11:8 13:7 colloquy 26:4 confused 23:1 correct 3:16,25 56:3,9,11
19:11,14 31:1,25 39:23 confusion 24:4 4:4,14,16,19 courtroom
29:1,6 come 33:9 50:5 24:10,12,13 6:11,25 7:1 16:13,14 25:15
31:11 comes 26:15 Congress 42:19 8:12 9:25 50:2
32:19 33:16 53:12 Conn 1:22 13:19 14:15,16 courts 13:2,15
37:22 comment 40:8 conscience 7:21 34:14 37:24 29:9 56:7,8
41:24 commit 22:8 conscientious 45:25 52:14 court's 4:7
48:9 28:13 40:25 53:23 11:14 18:22
47:4,8,13 committed 41:17 corrected 34:10 29:13,17,20,25
46:15 47:9,15 conscientiously counsel 4:13 42:9 51:8,24
56:13 committing 28:24 5:24,25 6:4 52:23
52:3 compared 22:24 22:19 26:17 44:3 45:22 credibility 9:3,4
55:8 35:23 44:19 46:12,13 count 40:21 crime 22:8,10
48:9 46:16 47:17,24 24:25 25:15,17 32:20 33:5 elaborate 16:6
52:17 53:22 44:23,24 45:11 46:4,17 52:11 eliminate 20:5,6
4:3,7 8:15 demonstrated directly 22:9 16:11
demonstrates 37:24 38:19 29:3,4,6 30:12
16:1 27:12 1:19 discussion 20:4 37:4,7,14,21
8:9 25:23 53:7,22 destroyed 40:5 dismissal 3:14 39:10,19 40:10
defense 3:21 29:10 51:3 disqualifying 42:15 43:5,18
5:6,25 15:16,17 20:25 14:7 45:6 51:4 doing 40:25 46:22 47:2,6
7:10,13 21:2,3,4,6,11 determine 24:7 48:13 47:10,16 48:2
8:5 9:17 21:14,20 26:4 determined 8:14 doubt 11:25 48:10,18 49:14
12:7 35:15 40:8 developed 42:12 12:1 24:19 49:19,22 50:6
24:5 41:3 45:22 46:4 26:14 36:19 50:9,17 51:6
30:2,20 49:11 50:2 die 7:8 Dreeben 1:18 51:12,23 52:5
38:6,17 53:10 difference 17:13 2:6 19:14,15 52:8,24 53:14
45:20 defer 16:16 17:22 18:2,11 19:18,24 20:13 54:5,21 55:11
55:2 51:21,23 52:4 28:6 42:5,16 21:16 23:3,7 emerge 46:17
54:3 12:14 13:18,23 49:23 50:8,9 25:1,18 26:24 enactment 42:8
23:23 14:5,6,9,21,25 different 8:12 28:11,14,17,21 entire 20:20
15:9,13 35:7 18:7 43:3,9 29:2 39:24 41:16
6:2,4,10 42:18,20 43:2 52:9 56:10 D.C 1:9,19 entitled 3:11
7:2,12 43:9 51:1 differently 8:15 13:17
9:21 degree 42:14 41:25 E enumerated
22:5 demanded difficult 25:13 E 2:1 3:1,1 4:25 26:21
23:25 46:11 47:21 difficulty 6:15 early 9:17,19 equally 19:21
demeanor 9:3,4 8:11 10:3 equivocal 8:6
14:13,14 15:4 dire 4:9,16,21 easy 33:15 51:8 32:6
15:5,11,13,16 5:5 6:13 9:21 effect 15:25 error 39:17,18
32:4 16:11,16,22,23 9:24 10:14 16:11 50:19,24,24
33:1 16:24 17:5,7 20:20 21:5 Effective 3:13 errors 21:18
38:1,9 17:11,13,22,24 23:24 24:9 effort 20:21 especially 3:19
39:5,17 18:1,11,12 26:8 31:23 either 23:24 ESQ 1:16,18,22
explain 56:1 46:4,16 36:17 48:21 12:14 14:20
43:20 26:16 14:7 16:5 five 9:20 21:1 24:21 26:18
56:6 explains 9:2 56:10 23:23 24:3 32:7 42:9,14
explicit 17:2 faith 20:21 24:14 27:14 44:25 46:18
9:2,2,8 express 9:3,5 favor 47:17 footnote 46:10 33:24
15:15 14:3 18:25 Federal 4:8 46:11 go 10:16 35:2,5
17:17,20 expressed 9:2 42:23 56:6 forget 4:25 goes 23:4,7
29:11 13:15 23:24 feel 32:8 forth 28:8 going 15:8 20:4
51:18 extension 7:19 feeling 33:24 for-cause 10:8 20:5,6 23:18
extensive 20:3 fellow 34:2 found 4:5 10:19 27:4,13,24
11:10 40:12 filed 18:16 28:17 31:5 31:9,20 33:10
21:11 filled 5:15 45:12 33:16,17,19
43:14 F filling 4:22 front 39:14 40:5 42:23
faced 54:17 final 13:16 32:2 frustrate 55:4 43:22 49:2,7
7:2 fact 3:15,25 4:5 find 30:15 41:20 further 10:13 good 20:21 34:3
8:16 6:1 7:6 8:16 finding 3:15,25 15:10 25:23 40:18 55:17
26:5 11:7,19 12:1 10:21 11:7,19 34:18 grant 7:18,18
33:23 12:10,11,12 11:21 12:1,10 future 48:19 37:9 55:8
48:24 50:23 34:18 38:11 5:3 8:1 33:23 39:19
37:15 55:23,24 56:8 findings 11:23 Ginsburg 5:7 greater 42:14
51:3 factfinding 14:2 11:23,24 13:4 6:8,19,21 ground 9:12
factor 9:7 48:24 43:7 25:2 34:22 grounds 16:16
38:2,5 factors 4:25 finish 19:20 40:24 41:5,9 guess 15:24
35:19 ignore 30:25 incorporated 44:2,19 48:19 judgment 51:10
43:5 illegal 22:25 36:16 56:2 judicial 16:11
imagine 36:3 incorrect 12:23 italicized 47:23 16:15,17 17:5
8:14 10:22 independent 55:13 15:2,19 18:7
13:17 18:22 indicate 4:9 JEFFREY 1:3 21:9 23:11,23
impairment indicates 46:18 judge 3:20 4:12 33:17 34:4,23
6:11 7:23 49:5 10:13 18:20,24 19:6 48:4 49:13,14
9:14,25 impose 4:10 information 5:8 19:22,25 20:4 49:22,23,25
11:2,18 7:12 8:20 informed 5:15 20:9,19 21:2,7 50:3 51:3,14
13:1 22:16,19 27:11 5:17 21:10,24 23:9 51:19 55:2,21
27:17 30:3 insist 33:9 23:12 24:6,8 jurors 4:22 5:9
15:6 31:9 32:4,25 instances 24:3 25:6,12,15,17 7:20,24 8:10
16:3 38:9 39:5 26:3 34:9 25:22 27:8 9:18,18,20
18:6 52:12 53:22 instructed 27:5 28:1,3,17,24 10:13,15,20
19:5,13 55:21 27:18 30:25 31:3 11:12,15 18:23
31:2 imposed 36:22 instruction 5:3 33:24 34:16,22 20:6,7,22 21:4
36:13 38:23 instructions 35:3,6,9,15 21:6 28:12
40:22 imposing 6:15 4:22 5:23 36:10,12 40:25 33:24 39:25
48:2 26:17 30:19 11:14 18:22 41:17,18 42:11 54:10,12,15
52:10 38:1,10 48:16 28:10 30:10 42:21 44:1,7 juror's 24:14
imposition 4:18 32:16 52:23 44:11,21 45:11 25:7 27:9 28:1
inability 20:24 intervene 20:17 54:25 55:7 47:18 50:16
37:11 irrevocably judge's 3:14 3:8 4:13,24 5:4
9:9,16 K L 27:1 30:17 43:21
10:2,9,16 keep 26:21 L 3:6 31:21 33:1 means 16:8
KENNEDY laboring 45:1 48:22 48:18
7:17 8:4 9:9,16 lack 50:18 light 29:11 meant 5:10
9:23 10:2,9 laid 42:18 like-biased 20:6 53:25
14:10,18 12:22 21:13 language 35:9 limited 27:15 measure 22:20
24:10 34:8,11 37:23 55:17 42:20 measured 24:1
17:3 34:15 37:11,19 large 40:7 listed 11:22 12:2 men 46:18
38:22,25 39:3 late 9:16,18 12:9 mention 44:22
19:2 39:8 40:3,13 12:24 little 10:2 33:12 44:23 45:3,12
41:10 44:9,15 Laughter 35:4 35:9 40:23 51:7,16
20:8 50:23 51:9,21 law 4:8,18 5:1 Lonberger 17:1 mentioned 6:20
21:13,14 Kennedy's 5:12,14,15 long 44:2 8:7 21:23
23:3,5,8 43:25 8:19 20:24 longer 55:18 45:24 51:11,11
kept 22:5 21:7 24:1,5,14 look 27:4 31:11 54:12
25:2 kill 6:17 7:9 25:11 26:2,16 31:12 39:24 meticulously
26:19 27:10 32:5 26:25 27:6,12 41:16,25 20:1
27:3,14 36:22,23 38:1 28:2,8 30:9 looked 16:14 MICHAEL 1:18
28:5 38:8 31:17 33:3 23:9 2:6 19:15
kind 22:23 34:7 35:15 looking 42:1 mind 26:10
30:7,21 39:18 42:17,18 38:4 41:22 loose 35:10 minute 55:12
32:1 44:4 48:4 54:7 43:13,17,19 lost 21:1 misconception
33:8 kinds 33:21 44:7,18 46:3,5 lot 35:24 47:8 23:25
knew 25:15 46:8,9,14,21 lousy 33:17 Mississippi
35:2,22 34:15 35:16 46:23,24,25 33:23 39:19
37:2,6,11 M mistake 36:8,10
48:20,21 49:21
38:22 know 5:9,11 50:10 52:14,17 making 16:1 36:11
39:3,6,8 16:12 19:22 53:20,21,24 20:20 23:14 misunderstood
40:3 21:13 22:13 55:17 33:6 43:14 11:24 41:14
24:16,17 30:15 lawyer 23:9 man 22:15 46:12 mitigating 24:17
41:5,9 31:12 33:16 34:18 47:21 49:16 38:15 39:12
42:4 35:8 36:11 lay 12:7 Marshall 16:25 48:24 49:24
43:11 38:6,10 39:6 learn 5:20 Martinez 41:17 moment 29:14
44:9 40:20 46:8 learned 5:13,19 matter 1:12 7:21 Morgan 49:23
45:4,13 53:25 54:1,2 5:22 43:16 44:7 motion 18:16
46:5,9 knowing 7:12 LEE 1:22 2:10 56:16 45:23
47:1 known 49:18 29:4 Matthews 37:5 mouse 44:1,6
knows 35:23,25 left 9:13 37:8 46:2 moved 34:5
49:6,9 Kozinski 16:18 legal 21:18 mean 10:3 14:14 Mulligan 37:17
20:9 31:4 legitimate 55:4 15:13,13 17:11 mustn't 53:9
34:22 35:3,6 55:5 22:23 25:2
52:2,7 27:20 30:23 N
51:12 lengthy 45:9
53:3,17 55:8 lens 42:3 36:11 40:8,20 N 2:1,1 3:1
55:10,15 Kozinski's level 24:13 42:2,13,22 necessarily 4:1
56:13 10:18 11:9 42:12 43:23 50:3,25 neither 15:6
22:11 meaningless 27:11,12 31:10
32:25 20:22 35:13 options 6:2 43:22 44:8 Petitioner's 11:4
38:12 37:12 40:4,9 38:18 parts 43:12 phase 39:15
55:21 41:12 45:9,19 oral 1:12 2:2,5,9passages 53:9 piece 5:7,8
55:8 objectively outset 28:22 peculiarities 19:20 29:7
15:21 16:7 overcome 14:7,9 4:10,19 6:4,10 24:2,8,15
observation 11:17 22:5,14,18 pointed 35:8
overturned 23:25 26:5,12 42:21
15:16 occasions 21:1 31:5,6,6,8,11 46:16 47:17 possible 20:9
34:16 23:23 32:21 31:12 37:4,17 48:12,16 49:17 25:14
43:13 occurred 8:16 37:23 52:11,19 52:12,17 53:22 precedent 4:3
49:10 Oh 10:9 50:6 53:1,4 55:3,6,21 29:17
okay 5:4 15:20 pages 20:3 PENITENTI... precisely 48:4
once 30:24 31:3 panel 33:25 people 4:17 prepared 19:21
34:8 38:11 paraded 40:20 peremptories present 16:13,14
41:3,5,7 one-paragraph paragraph 53:7 9:13 10:6,15 17:17,20 33:22
16:4 18:7 opinion 10:18 54:11 perfect 53:8 presented 3:17
19:3,9 11:10 13:9,12 parole 5:10 6:1 56:2 17:8 29:11
20:10 31:4 42:22 6:3 7:9,13,16 perfectly 48:25 30:2 55:25
49:7 53:9 54:3 22:17 27:1 person 6:6,16 56:5
26:1 54:6 55:7 56:1 30:18 32:8,9 7:4 16:13 22:7 presumably
31:23 56:3 part 18:3 21:23 22:24 23:11 45:16,17
opinions 13:12 45:23 51:18 26:10 30:23 presumed 3:16
35:14 opportunity 56:1 31:14 32:5,22 presumes 51:9
37:8 3:20 15:1 38:8 particular 13:8 36:4 48:8,23 presumption
opposed 7:21 25:21 37:16 personal 55:3 48:21
44:15,17 28:9 39:23 45:11 person's 17:21 pretty 28:13
45:7,22 opposing 45:21 53:12 54:18 Petition 29:21 40:18,23
49:12,12 opposite 23:15 56:2 Petitioner 1:5 prevent 28:1
53:11 opposition 8:10 particularly 1:17,21 2:4,8 32:15 33:6
option 22:18 26:11 2:14 3:7 18:1 38:10 47:11
41:22 54:24 record 3:18 reoffend 6:17
49:1 prosecutor's R 13:18,25 14:12 26:7,10,15
38:19 41:2 R 1:18 2:6 3:1 14:19 15:11,22 30:23
prospective raise 36:1 17:4,9 18:4,12 repeatedly 31:6
42:7 45:2 reach 56:9 28:23 29:15,22 require 44:18
52:16 46:14 13:24 56:11 41:16 44:21 required 30:25
35:10 pro-death 34:24 24:22 46:6,7 51:13,13,25 55:20
46:6 49:17 reading 31:22 55:1 requirement
punishment 33:4 records 33:20 17:1,4 27:25
41:18 purpose 55:5 realize 7:15 referred 18:4 56:4
52:9 push 23:1 really 20:10 regard 6:19 rereleased 6:7
44:9 53:12 27:1 43:25 regarding 5:3 19:11
21:10,23,25 regardless 46:16 resolved 25:6
qualification 34:23 44:21 rejected 41:1 10:20,22 43:2
qualified 51:15 reasonable 3:24 38:15 48:1
17:18 20:15,17 36:19 31:14 38:12 1:23 2:11 29:5
21:1 32:3 34:21 reasons 3:12 relevant 17:25 26:12,13 28:9
41:11 41:14 50:13 25:22 54:14 relied 26:1 43:24 45:18
55:24 rebuttal 2:12 relief 3:11 7:18 55:16,23
questioning 55:13 relying 25:15 23:12
7:10 27:4 30:8 recall 6:20 remainder rest 22:10
9:13,15 questionnaire recidivate 48:23 19:12 result 27:22
23:18 4:23 5:16 6:6 49:6 remained 10:13 reversed 3:12
27:8 questions 4:16 recidivism remaining 55:12 review 16:11,17
31:24 32:13 34:3 38:20 49:4 reminded 5:25 17:5,8 24:25
35:15,18 55:16 recognized removal 3:22 25:3 35:19
36:15,17 quotation 6:19 14:24 remove 3:19 42:1,5,20,24
44:22 quote 52:13 reconsideration 10:15 15:21 43:2,4,6,6,14
51:19 16:25 17:7,16 seven 20:25 Souter 4:13,24 statement 4:17
18:6,14,24 34:12 40:1,9 5:4 13:14,22 8:9 9:4,5 12:8
55:12,13,15 shading 33:12 16:8,22 17:3 46:23 52:14
32:22 saying 6:14 14:4 23:15 27:3 5:24 7:24 8:12
53:23 15:10,19,20 short 40:23 Souter's 25:3 17:21,23 48:10
13:13 42:10 43:9 17:14 18:1,11 specific 11:19 State's 29:15
23:6 49:11 18:13 43:7 specifically 7:10 30:5 31:22
30:24 says 7:3 8:19 55:20 11:4 26:4 55:4,5
36:2,12 22:11,24 23:2 showed 17:20 speculation statute 42:3
8:21 11:8 34:19 35:12 28:23 spoke 21:3 step 15:10
19:11 37:15,18 44:21 side 16:2 stage 39:13 Stevens 10:16
29:1 46:10 47:20 significance standard 4:4 14:10,18 18:18
31:11 50:22 51:12 8:22 11:24 20:1,5 19:2,6,20,24
32:19 52:25 significant 9:7 20:21 21:7 20:8,14 27:14
37:22 SCALIA 6:18 21:17 26:11 26:14 28:25 27:20,21 28:5
41:24 12:13,17 17:10 silent 18:12 42:5 43:1,9 28:12,15,19
17:19 33:8 34:19 36:5 52:20 55:19,19 43:11,24 49:9
47:4,8,13 34:1 35:22 simply 15:14 55:20 56:4 49:15,20,25
36:9 37:2,6 33:15 45:12 standards 24:18 50:7,14
56:13 40:14,17 45:13 54:16 standing 34:19 Stevens's 11:9
51:1 48:6,14 49:6 sit 25:7 47:18 stands 12:22 47:1
3:5,6,8 13:9 sketchy 30:4 15:19 18:15 submitted 56:14
5:2,5,13 see 10:9,10 skimmed 46:6 25:10 26:16,21 56:16
6:11,25 seemingly 17:23 Solicitor 1:18 29:20,24 33:5 subordinate
8:8,25 sense 23:18 36:6 somebody 26:6 33:20 34:5 55:3
sentence 46:20 27:10 33:11 35:8 42:21 substance 31:24
11:1 47:24 53:5 somewhat 8:6 43:2 46:14 51:1
12:5,16 separate 23:23 9:10 52:3,5,8,10 substantial 3:15
13:1,10 54:11 sorry 37:14,21 53:15 55:25 9:5 42:19 43:6
14:4,16 serve 51:15 41:13 56:3,8,11 55:19
15:6,15 service 33:13 sort 48:7 stated 6:5,5 9:6 substantially
16:3,19 serving 51:16 sorts 54:8 52:20 4:5 10:22
18:21 sure 4:15 18:18 29:14 31:3,13 trapping 44:1,6 43:13 50:13
32:15 30:10 46:7 31:22 33:2 trial 3:14,20 4:4 52:21
47:4,6 surely 30:9 35:9,10 36:7 4:12 5:23 8:1 understanding
surprised 5:11 36:12,18,20 11:6 13:6 14:6 41:8
52:22 9:10 38:4,22 40:4 14:23 15:1,3 United 1:1,13,20
52:25 sustain 16:15 43:5,8,18,18 16:9,10,20 universe 40:11
sustaining 16:9 49:19,20 50:14 24:8 25:6 29:9 unreasonable
2:10 29:4 51:7,24 52:9 34:16 35:19 29:10,16 30:1
13:8 take 9:13 13:14 thought 7:14 51:17 53:1,15 upholding 54:14
52:25 40:15 53:9 10:19 11:8,10 54:14,19,23,24 use 49:7
56:1 takes 15:9,9 11:23 14:2,19 trials 28:6 useful 49:8
talking 16:22,23 26:18 32:7 true 54:21
telling 53:4 45:4 49:15 truth 33:12 v 1:6
14:20 53:15 three 3:12 10:20 Tuesday 1:10 various 20:22
25:5 test 47:7 21:17 26:8 turn 54:5 54:13
19:17 29:1 40:13 30:22,25 31:7 9:15 10:20 16:12 46:11,18
56:12,13 40:6 50:11 27:1 29:8 verb 49:8
49:21 21:11 22:7 times 26:8 30:2 36:17 53:9 20:2 21:20
things 47:20 told 4:24 5:1 U view 13:24 29:8
10:19,23 think 4:14 6:4 26:22 50:5 ultimate 14:1 41:24 42:3
7:3,10,25 8:5 totality 26:2 umpteen 53:5 43:1 51:14
13:5 8:20 10:17 totally 12:19 unadorned 37:9 56:11
13:10 14:8 32:10 uncertainty viewed 6:14
47:1 16:17 20:13 transcript 21:5 23:24 24:4 viewing 6:12
52:5 21:17 22:14,17 22:3,4 24:23 underlying 25:4 8:13
23:2,3 25:1,4 56:9 understand 8:4 views 7:20 8:5
25:11,13 26:24 translate 27:16 9:11 16:24 11:12 18:21
55:25 27:7 28:22 trap 34:16 18:19 26:20 27:15,16 28:1
32:15 Washington's writes 13:12 50 29:12
55:3 38:11 written 14:12,19 522 46:9
6:13 9:21 28:16 50:11 6
10:14 way 18:10,13 X 62 7:1 31:5
21:5 25:7 32:8 x 1:2,8 64 37:17
24:9 33:11 34:3 675 37:4
31:23 44:3,10 49:7 Y
33:5 53:13 yeah 22:5 27:3 7
41:16 weight 24:24 28:11 40:19 7 20:3
52:11 went 14:2 21:2 41:15 71 7:13
26:9 Weren't 40:4 32:8
55:22 we're 14:4 15:8
21:19 46:12 47:22 1:00 1:14 3:2
23:19 29:18 42:17 40:3,4,8 41:7
50:3,16 46:9 55:17 41:11
witness 14:14 17 1:10 9:23
witnesses 45:14 171a 11:3
5:1 9:11 16:4 20:2,4,21
11:11 21:20 22:23 2
13:5,8 25:23 27:24 2:00 56:15
24:1 28:24 29:17 2007 1:10
27:6,12 51:2,11,22,24 208 52:19 54:7
30:5 52:21 55:18 208a 11:11
31:17 woman 23:1 208-A 12:9
34:7 wonder 36:10 2254(d)(2) 3:23
38:4 word 22:4 47:22 4:2 29:13
41:22 words 18:20 2254(3)(16) 3:13
44:7 23:20 33:9 262 31:12
46:3,25 49:15 28 29:12
49:21 world 28:5 29 2:11
52:3 wouldn't 15:24
21:10 44:12 3
53:18 48:15,20 50:9 3 2:4 9:20
writ 29:12 55:8
