IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
TENNESSEE SECONDARY SCHOOL :
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-427
BRENTWOOD ACADEMY. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, April 18, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:22 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MAUREEN MAHONEY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
DAN HIMMELFARB, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Petitioner.
JAMES F. BLUMSTEIN, ESQ., Nashville, Tenn; on behalf of
the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MAUREEN MAHONEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DAN HIMMELFARB, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioner 16
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JAMES F. BLUMSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MAUREEN MAHONEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:22 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in 06-427, Tennessee Secondary School
Athletic Association versus Brentwood Academy.
Ms. Mahoney.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN MAHONEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. MAHONEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
If this Court adheres to its State action
ruling, it should now hold that the TSSAA has broad
discretion to adopt and to enforcement contractual
restrictions on athletic recruiting as a condition of
membership. Under this Court's cases, Brentwood cannot
escape the contractual bargain it's made under the First
Amendment, because the association offered it a
reasonable choice as measured by the three criteria that
this Court has used to identify unconstitutional
conditions.
First, participation in the state
tournaments is entirely voluntary. Second, the
restrictions at issue here are germane to the legitimate
goals of the association. And third, enforcement of the
rule here imposed only a minimal burden on speech of
private concerns.
I would like to turn first to the issue of
voluntariness, because that's a core issue in every case
involving allegedly unconstitutional conditions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you a
preliminary question, Ms. Mahoney?
And that is, we are told that at the time
this issue arose, the practice itself was all right, and
it was all right for one school to invite students from
another school to join the invitee school's practice.
And now I take it that it's no longer permissible, that
one school's, one school's practice, is reserved for its
own students and not -- others are not invited. But if
it was permissible under the association's rules to
invite students from other schools, then why is it
impermissible to talk it up? I mean, you can do it, but
you can't talk about it?
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, actually the
record indicates that it would be permissible to give
the information about the date for the spring practice
to the students who had signed an enrollment contract.
And that's at CAJA-705. It could have been sent in an
enrollment packet, for instance. It could have been
sent just as a schedule.
But instead the problem here was that it was
sent from the coach in a personal solicitation to the
students that really subtly pressured them to come to
practice. This was a form of recruiting. Under
question 3, which is the interpretive guidance for the
recruiting rule, it very expressly says that
coach-initiated contact with students who are enrolled
at another school is not supposed to occur. And so this
fell within the terms of the rule. As the Sixth Circuit
said, it would strain credulity to say that Brentwood
didn't know that it shouldn't have sent this letter.
And their own headmaster acknowledged that it certainly
should have been t kind of thing that they would have
called about before doing it, and he was surprised that
Coach Flatt had not done so.
So I think, Your Honor, that the first point
is that, yes, this information could have been
communicated to the students, but not in this way. And
certainly the association could recognize that this was
still a form of recruiting.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So in speech terms, there
were alternative means to get the message out.
MS. MAHONEY: Absolutely. This was speech
of private concern. It was about the time for football
practice. And there were other ways that that
information could be communicated. But the association
has an interest in having prophylactic rules that
prevent coaches from initiating communications with
students before they started school, because even though
they --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think the briefs are --
I think it's fair to characterize the Respondent's brief
this way, or fair to concentrate on Pickering. It seems
to me that Pickering is the key here, and I took away
that impression from your brief.
If we said that it's commercial speech, I
think that's a little far off the mark. If we said it's
an unconstitutional condition, I'm not sure that helps
either side that much, either.
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, I think Pickering
is really an example of an unconstitutional conditions
analysis just in the employment context. What the Court
really says in a broad group of cases where the
government or the State actor is not exercising
sovereign power, if it's offering a benefit, if it's
using funding to encourage activity, if it is engaging
in a contractual relationship as it does in Umbehr, that
what this court has said in Umbehr very explicitly is
that when the government uses contractual power the
constitutional concerns are not as great.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In Umbehr we said, the
Court said, that in the independent contractor cases the
interests of either party, the government or the
contractor, are not quite so intense as they are with a
public employee. I thought that made sense when I read
it. I'm not so sure it does any more.
MS. MAHONEY: Well, and in fact this Court
said in Umbehr that, even though the interests were what
different, the standards that had been applied in
Connick and Pickering could easily accommodate the
circumstances of dealing with --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I suppose we could
construct a hypothetical where we could say there's a
very strong interest in the contractor. So I'm not sure
that that works as a general theorem.
MS. MAHONEY: But I think that the key from
all the cases, whether we look at Cornelius, which
involves your access to the charitable campaign, or if
we look at or if we look at Lusk and American Library,
which involved access to funding, or Grove, access to
funding, that the strain across these cases is that
you're really looking at is the restriction germane.
What kind of a burden --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about if, what
if the association had a rule that members, school
officials, shall not criticize the decisions of the
association?
MS. MAHONEY: I think then it would be --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's germane. In
other words, you can criticize other things, but if
you're going to join this group we think it's important
for their public stature not to be criticized by
members.
MS. MAHONEY: I think that would probably be
viewed as speech of public concern, and at that point
under Connick balancing you'd have --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There's no more
public concern about when spring practice is. If you
think there should be, you know, two playoff tiers
rather than three and you criticize the association for
that and they say well, you're suspended for a year and
all that.
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, in Connick this
Court said that in assessing whether something is a
issue of public concern you look at not just the topic,
but also the way in which that topic is discussed. And
if what happened was the association decided that it was
going to penalize a member or have a broad rule that
says it would tolerate no criticism and even if
Brentwood had taken an ad out in the paper to talk about
how terrible the association's policies were, I think
this Court could readily find that that was not a
reasonable choice because it would impact --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about
criticizing officials?
MS. MAHONEY: On the field, Your Honor? I
think that the interests in essentially controlling that
kind of speech would always outweigh the interests of an
athlete or a coach in engaging in any kind of speech on
the field.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I mean three
days later, you know, the school -- the coach writes an
editorial saying there were lousy calls in the game last
week.
MS. MAHONEY: I think that would probably be
treated as speech of public concern, which would then
give rise to Connick balancing.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And how would you balance
it?
MS. MAHONEY: What Connick says is you look
at how core is the speech, what's it about?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And how would you
commence?
MS. MAHONEY: Probably find that that not be
a reasonable restriction, that it's probably not germane
to the important educational goals of the association.
But it could -- I mean, I think that what we have here
is the recruiting rule has been applied to speech that's
a private concern that can be delivered in another way;
and the choice to join is entirely voluntary.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Ms. Mahoney, on that point,
can I just take you back to square one for a second?
I'm with you in your explanation that the speech at
issue here probably was fairly understood as being for,
you know, the communication here as being a violation of
the rule. Could you, though, tell me, would it have
been -- I guess I have two questions.
Would it have been a violation of the rule
if the coach had sent the letter to eighth grade
students in the school itself, those who were already
formally enrolled and who might be going out for
football the next fall? And number two, what is exactly
the interest in preventing recruiting, as you describe
it, when the letters are aimed at people who have
already signed, I think you referred to it as, an
enrollment contract? So there's every reason to believe
they're going to be in that school next year.
What is the interest? And would that
interest have supported a ban on letters to the already
enrolled eighth grade kids?
MS. MAHONEY: First, I think that this
letter, which was not sent to Brentwood's own eighth
grade middle school students, probably could have been,
because under the rule those students were not enrolled
at another school. And what is really restricted is
coach-initiated contact with students enrolled at
another school.
This letter was instead sent to student
whose were still enrolled at another school. And the
interest I would --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, so they had signed
up to go to Brentwood. So where does the recruiting
come in?
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, the contracts
weren't binding. We have the contracts in the record at
CAJA-1889. But more importantly, whether it was or not,
the record demonstrates that some student do sign
multiple contracts. Some students do not come. And so
efforts to get, of the coach, to get them to come to
practice, to be with him, to entice them, to give them
his personal home phone number, that's still a form of
recruiting.
In fact, one of the top basketball athletes
in the eighth grade in the city of Nashville in the 1997
was named Jack West Curry. He signed one of these
contracts. He did not ultimately come to Brentwood.
And yet he was exactly the kind of person that still
could have been subject to recruiting if during that
period --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So it boils down to saying
that when they've signed the enrollment contract that's
not the end of the, in effect, the issue.
MS. MAHONEY: No.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And there is a sensible
practical way in which recruiting goes on even among
those who have signed up. Okay.
MS. MAHONEY: It certainly could, and so
there's an interest in stopping that. This Court
certainly has said that even in the commercial speech
area, in Ohralik instance, that it's fineto have
prophylactic rules as long as the rule continues to
advance the interest. The fact that the interest may be
less strong at the point when they sign an enrollment
contract doesn't mean there is still no legitimate
interest.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And what is the
interest behind the anti-recruiting rule?
MS. MAHONEY: Several, Your Honor. This is
a group of individuals involved in an educational
activity in the State of Tennessee, and they have
determined that athletic recruiting is harmful to young
adults, that it puts too much emphasis on athletics,
that it also --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They could have
determined that it's particularly harmful to the public
schools who don't have the option of recruiting while
the private schools do?
MS. MAHONEY: Well, Your Honor, in 1997
there were five violations, five penalties for
violations of the recruiting rule, and four of them were
against public schools, one against a private school.
That's at the transcript at 2705. Public schools have
to bear the burden of these rules because they do try to
recruit.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could the association bar
Brentwood from contacting public school students
altogether?
MS. MAHONEY: About anything? I think again
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: About enrollment. About
enrollment.
MS. MAHONEY: I think, Your Honor, that it
would be hard to say that that is germane, and it would
also put a very large burden on speech if they imposed a
flat contact. They've done nothing of the kind. There
have been --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, like if Brentwood,
let's assume -- I think it's true -- is rather
well-known in the State, and if they send you a
solicitation form to enroll, everybody knows they've got
a great athletic program, so we say you can't solicit
any high school students.
MS. MAHONEY: I think that they haven't done
it. It would certainly be far less reasonable. I
don't -- I think that that would be much more of a
burden on speech.
Here it's undisputed -- I shouldn't say it's
undisputed, but the record certainly establishes, that
academic targeting is not prohibited -- that's in the
transcript at 2202 -- that if Brentwood Academy or any
other school wants to initiate contact for the purpose
of trying to persuade them to come for academics, it's
entirely free to do so. This rule is not designed to in
any way stifle those kinds of communications.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I haven't kept track of
your time, but if we're going to rule for you we have to
reach the due process problem. And at some point after
you finish discussing what you wish to on free speech, I
actually find that a somewhat more difficult issue.
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, if I could just --
one thing I do want to make clear about the
voluntariness of the choice and then I'll turn to due
process, is that, as we set out in our brief, one of the
things that Brentwood and some of its amici have tried
to say is that there simply is no ability to play
scholastic sports in Tennessee if you're not a member of
this association. And it's important to emphasize that
for regular season play, for instance, members of TSSAA
are free to play any non-member schools they want.
It used to be that the association required
approval, which was routinely granted. But in 2005 they
actually changed the rule. It's in the handbook at page
23 on their website.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then that's part of
the trophy, whatever it is when you win at the end of
the year.
MS. MAHONEY: That's right, Your Honor. You
could have -- all that TSSAA does is give the
opportunity to engage in its State tournaments,
post-season competition.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there any other?
MS. MAHONEY: Yes, Your Honor. There is a
Christian Athletic League that has 26 private schools,
that also conducts State tournaments. There are also
State tournaments in other sports, including lacrosse,
swimming, that are not run by TSSAA. And there's
nothing to stop Brentwood, for instance, from trying
form its own league, which is what independent schools
have done in many other States. They also could have
regular season play with TSSAA member schools and have
invitationals. There's no bar on schools attending
those.
If I could quickly turn to Justice Kennedy's
question with respect to the issue of due process. I
think that the analysis is really quite similar. What
occurred here is a contractual agreement to provide
certain kinds of process which actually satisfy the
standards in Laudermill, but in addition Brentwood would
have been able to bring a beach of contract action under
State law if it wanted to allege that it didn't get the
notice that the contract required. And this Court held
in Lujan that you have to take into account the
availability of a State breach of contract action before
jumping to the conclusion that due process rights have
been violated. Yet the Sixth Circuit did not take that
into account.
If I could save the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Mahoney.
Mr. Himmelfarb?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAN HIMMELFARB
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. HIMMELFARB: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The position of the United States is that
the court of appeals applied the wrong standard in
deciding Brentwood's First Amendment claim. This
Court's decisions establish that when the government
offers a benefit that a citizen is free to reject, it
has much greater leeway in regulating speech than when
it exercises its coercive sovereign power. As in cases
where the Government acts as an employer, a contractor,
a property owner, a service provider or a benefactor,
the TSSAA offers a benefit, access to organized athletic
competition, that a school may decline by choosing not
to become a member of the association.
Brentwood's First Amendment challenge to
the TSSAA recruiting rule, therefore, is subject to
deferential review. Deferential First Amendment review
is appropriate in these contexts because the Government
occupies a middle ground when it is not exercising its
sovereign authority. On the one hand the Government
remains the Government no matter what authority it's
exercising -- so it is subject to the restrictions of
the First Amendment.
On the other hand, when the Government acts
in a non-sovereign capacity, its position is comparable
to that of private sector entities and it has to be able
to make the same sorts of decisions that they make. It
has to be able to decide what conduct is acceptable in
its workplace, what activities may take place on its
property, and the uses to which its grant money may be
put.
So the First Amendment can't apply with the
same force as when the Government acts in its sovereign
capacity. For example, a government agency can tell its
employees not to use offensive language with co-workers
or customers, as Justice O'Connor pointed out in her
plurality opinion in Waters versus Churchill, and that
prohibition would not be subject to heightened First
Amendment scrutiny. So, too, an athletic association
can tell the students at its member schools that they
can't use offensive language in dealing with opposing
players or referees, as indeed the TSSAA bylaws in fact
do. This is at page 202 of the joint appendix. And
that prohibition should not be subject to heightened
First Amendment scrutiny either. The same is true of
other rules that govern membership in and define the
character of a voluntary athletic association.
As applied to TSSAA's recruiting rule, the
deferential standard of review is easily satisfied.
Prohibiting the use of undue influence in recruiting or
attempting to secure or retain high school athletes we
think is self-evidently reasonable in light of the
purposes underlying the rule, which include preventing
the exploitation of children and ensuring that sports
remains subordinate to academics.
Prohibiting coaches from contacting students
who have not enrolled at the coach's school is likewise
reasonable. Either because that prohibition can
reasonably be reviewed as an instance of undue influence
itself, or because it is a reasonable prophylactic
measure to prevent the exertion of undue influence.
And finally defining enrollment in the
context of the prohibition on coaches contacting
students to exclude the situation where a student has
somehow announced its intention -- announced his
intention to attend its school, for example, as in this
case by signing an enrollment contract, is reasonable as
well for the reasons Ms. Mahoney mentioned in responding
to Justice Souter's question. Somebody who signs an
enrollment contract may not decide -- may ultimately
decide to attend a different school, and there is
evidence in the record that students sometimes sign
multiple enrollment contracts and sometimes decide to
attend a different school after signing one. This is at
page 240 of the joint appendix and there are additional
citations to the record on page 6 of the reply brief.
In short, while the First Amendment has a
role to play in this case and cases like it, it is a
very limited role. And the recruiting rule easily
satisfies what we think is the appropriately deferential
standard of review that applies in circumstances of this
type. The judgment of the court of appeals should be
reversed.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this, what is
your response to the, one of your earlier questions.
Suppose they sent out a general brochure to all the
graduating grammar school students to -- advertising
that they come up to Brentwood and so forth and so on,
and the rule prohibited that? Would that rule be valid?
MR. HIMMELFARB: I think that would be close
to the line, Justice Stevens. The -- the prohibition on
coach contact we think is an easy case. There are, in
fact, ways that schools can communicate --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But isn't the coach
recruiting just a subcategory of a broader --
MR. HIMMELFARB: No. If it is a brochure
sent out by the school generally and it doesn't target
specific students and it went out to schools generally,
and there was a prohibition on that type of thing, I
think that might very well be a reasonable restriction
on speech. As I say, I think this that's close --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry; you think
it might be a reasonable or unreasonable?
MR. HIMMELFARB: It might be -- well, I
think it's close enough to the line that it could go
either way.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a close call
whether a school can send a brochure to 8th graders that
is not limited to athletics telling them about their
school?
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, the -- in that
situation, I think -- I think it probably would be
unreasonable, Mr. Chief Justice.
The, the -- the methods of -- the
alternative methods of speech here are not all that
different -- that are allowed by the rule here -- are
not all that different from Justice Stevens'
hypothetical. There are a number of ways in which
schools can communicate with prospective students and
their families about athletics at the school, but it's
usually done through intermediaries. And I think as I
say, Justice Stevens' hypothetical is not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the mailing
was limited to people who had signed contracts with --
students, not just football players but everyone who
else had signed enrollment contracts with the school?
General brochure listing all the things you can do at
the school including athletics, including -- you know,
other extracurricular activities? Is that all right?
MR. HIMMELFARB: I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or would it be
unreasonable for the TSSAA to prohibit that?
MR. HIMMELFARB: I think that would be much
more problematic. And I don't -- I don't think that
this rule prohibits that. And I don't think it
prohibits Justice Stevens' example.
What the rule allows is for schools to send
out information about their athletic programs to other
schools to distribute to their students, for example.
It also allows them to send it out to real estate
brokers, to athletic leagues that aren't associated with
the school, to advertise. It allows it to respond to
direct inquiries from students.
But I think Justice Stevens' hypothetical
and your hypothetical, Mr. Chief Justice, are pretty
close to the sorts of things that are allowed by this
recruiting rule. And I do agree with you that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm not asking you about
the school for the rule. I'm trying to figure out
what's the scope of the First Amendment protection.
MR. HIMMELFARB: Right. I -- I -- I think
that if the, if the -- if the recruiting rule -- if
there were a recruiting rule that prohibited those types
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: You do agree at some point
the First Amendment would prohibit some kind of rule.
MR. HIMMELFARB: Of course. There is, we
think there is a reasonableness or germaneness
limitation. The justifications for the rule are mainly
preventing the exploitation of students and ensuring
that academics -- that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is that permissible, in
weighing the -- both sides of the equation to consider
the advantages -- I mean the justifications for the
speech?
MR. HIMMELFARB: Sure. Under -- under a
reasonableness standard, I think it is appropriate to
look at the justifications for the rule and ask whether
if the -- the rule reasonably furthers those interests.
And, and in making that determination --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- justification for the
rule in this case and the justification for the rule
that would prohibit the general solicitation I
described.
MR. HIMMELFARB: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is it the same
justification, but the justification is a little
stronger in one hypo than the other?
MR. HIMMELFARB: Right. I think you, if you
-- if you offered those justifications for banning the
type of speech you suggested, it might very well be that
it would be appropriate to conclude that the rule isn't
reasonably related to those justifications because it
burdens too much speech.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that,
turning to the state action for a moment, one of the
justifications for finding state action that is there is
no other real choice, that they have, other than to --
if they want to play athletics in Tennessee other than
to join this association.
And yet at the opening of your argument, you
said oh, well it's voluntary. So It seems to me that
your speech argument is inconsistent with one of the
justifications for finding state action to begin with.
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, no, I don't think so,
Justice Kennedy. In the types of cases that I mentioned
at the outset, employment cases, funding cases,
property, ownership cases, I mean there's no dispute
that in those cases the Government is a state actor.
When the Government employs people it is a state actor
subject to the First Amendment, but deferential review
is applied to First Amendment challenges because there
is a choice.
And so too here there is a choice for the
reasons mentioned by Ms. Mahoney. There are other
athletic associations that schools can join.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's somewhat
inconsistent with one of the most forceful arguments for
finding state action to begin it, i.e., that you have to
join the school if you really want to compete with most
of the schools. You have to join the association.
MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I think -- I'm not
sure that's true, Justice Kennedy. But I think it's
clear that in this Court's decisions in various areas
applying deferential First Amendment review, when
there's a voluntary relationship between the Government
and the citizen, that is precisely the reason that the
Court applies deferential review.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Himmelfarb.
Mr. Blumstein?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES B. BLUMSTEIN,
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
I represent Brentwood Academy in this civil
rights case.
It's about the regulatory overreaching of
the Tennessee Secondary School Athletic Association,
what we call the TSSAA. The case involves the First
Amendment's interest of the school, its students, its
parents, and the procedural due process interests.
Brentwood was severely punished, and the
punishment is listed in footnote 5 of our brief, for
communicating with its own incoming male students,
informing them of an opportunity, spring football
practice, that the students were authorized to attend
under the TSSAA rules.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did it serve the
suspension or has that been stayed? Was it suspended
from competition for two years? That was the penalty.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did it -- did that take
effect?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: The first year it did take
effect --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: One year --
MR. BLUMSTEIN: And the second year did not
take effect, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the fine has not been
paid. The fine.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Not yet. But we've
recognized that if this turns out to be -- if the TSSAA
position turns out to be vindicated, the school will be
obliged to pay the fine.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Blumstein, there's
one feature of this that I find puzzling. You're making
this a First Amendment case. But you joined an
association that has such, certain rules and when one
joins, one agrees to abide by the rules.
Nothing in the world stops Brentwood from
saying this anti-recruiting rule is a really bad rule,
it is unfair to us; you could have written op ed pieces
about it, the school could have talked about it, the
school could have urged the board of education to drop
it. Nothing stopped you from attacking this rule that
you don't like. But when you signed on, the First
Amendment doesn't give you license not to follow the
rules that you disagree with.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, let me say
that there's a finding, a stipulation that the school
thought it was abiding by the rule. It has no intent to
violate the rule. Intent is not a requirement.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But isn't part of what
you agree to is a organization that has a certain
governance structure, the people in the organization
decide, and then make public to all the members of the
association what the rules are and how they're going to
be interpreted?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, Your Honor, let me
first address, in -- in the appendix to our brief is a
two page -- a two-sentence letter from Joe Marley to
Brentwood Academy. This was in the same year in which
this alleged violation occurred; and in the two-sentence
letter, Ray Marley, the student's father, said it is our
attention for Ray to attend Brentwood Academy in
1997-98, Ray has my consent to participate in the speed
and strength program at Brentwood Academy.
The Association then informed the school
that it was able to allow this young man to come and
lift weights at the school based upon that letter. So
when the school wrote a letter and had contact with the
student, based upon an enrollment contract, they thought
it was an a fortiori circumstance that if they could
have Ray Marley lift weights and be there and contact
the coach, that a much more elaborate contractual
enrollment form with signing of a contract and paying a
$300 deposit would allow them to, in fact, have contact
with the coach.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Blumstein, am I not
correct for purposes of our decision, if you're claiming
constitutional protection, you're claiming that you'd be
constitutionally protected even if you knew in advance
that this particular communication would violate the
rule and even if you did it deliberately? That's what
your constitutional position is, is it not?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, our -- Your Honor, the
significance of the voluntariness --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is it or is it not?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It is.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Yes. I'm sorry. Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So that what really,
you're -- it is sort of a side issue as to whether they
really had adequate notice and so forth, insofar as
we're talking about the First Amendment?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Yes, Your Honor. The
relevance of the signing up and the voluntary
involvement is ultimately whether there's a waiver; and
we don't believe that the requirements of waiver have
either been pled, which is an obligation, it's an
affirmative defense, has not been pled. This has never
been treated as a waiver case. It was not in the very
beginning.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if the state set up two
athletic leagues and one had an anti-recruiting rule and
the other didn't, and they were equally strong, and you
chose to join the one that had the anti-recruiting
league. Would it be a violation of the First Amendment
in your opinion?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: And both are governmental?
Both are governmental, Justice Alito?
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, both are governmental.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, I think if a private
party subjects itself voluntary, voluntarily to a
regulatory program run by the government or which is
attributable to the government, then under cases like
Ibanez, which we emphasize in our brief, that there is
an obligation on the part of the government to apply the
rules fairly, unless there is a waiver of some kind, the
waiver standard is the one that makes a difference. But
I believe in terms of voluntariness, the only difference
is whether there is some kind of a waiver.
In Ibanez where the lawyer, who was also an
accountant, submitted herself to the jurisdiction of the
accounting board, there was nothing requiring her to
submit herself to that jurisdiction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But your claim here is not
that they didn't apply the rules fairly, your claim is
that they applied the rules.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Unconstitutionally.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right. Fairly.
Fairly as they were written. But you say even if they
did apply them fairly, that's no good.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: That's correct,
Justice Scalia. That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I just wanted to be clear
on that.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: But I think perhaps --
JUSTICE ALITO: And even if was purely
voluntary and even if you had two choices but you chose
the -- you chose to join the association with the
anti-recruiting rule, there would be a First Amendment
problem?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Yes, Your Honor. If the
government has a regulatory program providing an
imprimatur, certification, accreditation, and you as an
individual or an entity, private entity, seek that
governmental imprimatur, it's available and you seek
that, then the government must respect your First
Amendment rights.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what if you
decided to offer bonuses to 8th graders, a thousand
dollars -- and of course that's, I assume that's against
the rules in Tennessee -- would you have -- would that
be covered by your First Amendment right?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: No, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why not?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: That would be conduct, Your
Honor. And I think that, again, the problem that we
have here is that the TSSAA has not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's not the
line that we draw elsewhere in the First Amendment.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Between money as an
inducing, an inducement, we would view an inducement or
an incentive as conduct, as opposed to speech,
communication. Here there was no evidence that any
inducement or emolument or promise of future activity
was elicited from the school. The only thing that was
done was sending them a letter informing them about an
activity that was an approved activity.
And I think that for our purposes in
drafting and implementing the undue influence rule, the
association has never recognized the difference between
its authority to regulate speech and its authority to
regulate conduct. And as a result, they've never gone
through a process of figuring out how can they
accommodate their legitimate interest.
We -- our school strongly supports a
recruiting rule that's aimed at barring these kinds of
conducts, Chief Justice, as you've just described. The
problem is that the association, by not recognizing that
the First Amendment enters into the analysis, that they
have not -- never gone through a process of calculating
the cost on speech, as this Court's decisions in cases
like the Lorillard case or the Fox case require that
they do, that they consider the impact on speech. If
you don't agree that there's any difference between
speech and conduct, you don't have to engage in that
kind of a process.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Blumstein, you're
making that distinction. Is there -- if the association
says no school in this association can invite students
enrolled in other schools to its practice, that's okay?
Because that's conduct, right? If this is your
statement, there's nothing to recruit for, because we
don't allow it period.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That would be okay.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: That's correct. We have no
problem with the revised rules that the association has
adopted that does not permit spring practice --
non-matriculated students to participate in spring
practice. That's a regulation of conduct and it doesn't
fall within speech. We think that was the right
solution, not punishing the school in what --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's a little odd, isn't
it, that they could do -- they could take the stronger
measure but not the lesser measure of saying it's
available but we don't want you to broadcast it?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, under the First
Amendment, it is a core principle that speech about
lawful or permitted conduct cannot be punished just
because of the speech. We have a finding of the
district court that the speech was actually beneficial,
it was welcomed by the families and by the children who
received the information. And in fact, it was
effective. The very thing the TSSAA --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But not beneficial to the
system. That's why the organization didn't like it.
And I wanted to come back to something you said just a
minute ago, that there's an obligation under the First
Amendment to weigh the effects of speech. Is there? I
mean, suppose a government organization simply comes out
with a rule that is perfectly fair, and that happens to
give due weight to the fact that it's restricting
speech, but the government organization has frankly
never considered it. They didn't sit down around a
table and say now, look, this is going affect speech,
let's be careful here. They didn't do that. They just
promulgated a perfectly reasonable rule.
Wouldn't we uphold that?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They don't have to consider
the matter, do they? They just have to get it right,
whether they considered it or not.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: I believe that under the
Lorillard case and under this Court's decision in the
Fox case, that there is an obligation to engage in what
is called the careful calculation of cause and benefits.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Certainly. We have to do
that. Certainly we have to do it in assessing whether,
what the government has done is okay. But you're saying
it's invalid unless the government gathers together a
group of people just to shoot the breeze about -- I
don't know of any of our cases that require that.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, Your Honor, there was
in the Lorillard case, the tobacco regulation case, the
Court was specifically critical that the attorney
general of Massachusetts did not consider the cost of
speech, particularly with respect to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I mean, you may
criticize them when they get it -- when it comes out
wrong. Then you can say, when the result is wrong, they
should have considered it. But when it comes out right?
Do you have any case where it comes out right and it's
perfectly reasonable, we say tsk, tsk, oh, but even
though it came out right, they didn't consider speech?
We've never said anything like that.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: But Justice Scalia, in your
opinion in the Fox case, one of the safeguards that was
articulated for speech protection was the need to have a
procedural safeguard. And one of those safeguards was
the development of a careful calculation of benefits and
costs with respect to freedom of speech.
That was the -- that was the case involving
the Tupperware parties on the State University campus of
New York. And one of the protections that was built
into the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's where you had an
approval system where one party would be approved and
another one wouldn't. Of course, in that situation, you
have to engage case by case in making the weighing. But
this is not an approval situation. It's the issuance of
a rule that applies to everybody.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, in addition, there is
an obligation under this Court's decision in the
Thompson case for the government to consider non-speech
alternatives, where to restrict -- and to achieve its
objectives by not regulating speech at all. In the
Thompson case --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Blumstein, it seems to
me that Ms. Mahoney addressed that in response to a
question from me.
I said, in effect, that once a student has
signed an enrollment contract, where is there any
recruiting going on? And she said there is recruiting,
and hence there is an interest in regulating recruiting,
because not everybody who signs these contracts, or on
behalf of whom those contracts are signed, end up going
to the school. So that in fact, there is room for
recruiting right up to the moment that the kid arrives
in the fall and signs on the dotted line.
What is your response to her response?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, the district court
found that the constitutional balance tipped at that
point because the evidence suggested that while that
does happen, it's not a normal occurrence, fewer than 5
percent of cases.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, how many cases have
there got to be before you would recognize the
sufficiency of the asserted state interest?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, I think that once a
family has -- and the evidence in this case established
that all these families had made their educational
choice.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, we know that.
They've signed the contract. So that's where we start.
And you're saying, well, only about 5
percent of them weasel out of it later on and go to some
other school. But why is 5 percent insufficient?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, in this case, the
association allows the underlying practice itself. It
permits the underlying practice.
And so if there's a concern about
recruiting --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So that if the kid comes
and says, look, I'm going to Brentwood next fall and I'd
like to tag along to a spring practice, they say okay.
But that's not recruiting. The school hasn't initiated
it. In this case, the school has initiated it by the
letter. And it does sound like recruiting if you accept
the proposition that the students aren't bound to go to
the school even though their parents signed up and some
of them don't.
So I come back to my question. If taking
your figure -- let's assume that only 5 percent, in
fact, change their minds. Why doesn't -- why isn't
there a legitimate interest in preventing recruiting
within the 5 percent?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: But there's the whole cited
Question 3, Justice Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yeah, but would you answer
my question? Why isn't that enough?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, I think, again, as
long as the association permits this activity and says
there is a risk of recruiting at that activity if the
students are not firmly committed, irrevocably committed
to a place, and that they allow that conduct, then to
allow the -- to bar the -- the school from talking about
or at least mentioning the -- the activity as an
opportunity, then at that point the association if it
wants to protect its interests must act to prohibit the
conduct, not the speech.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. It certainly can do
that. There's no question about it. But it seems to me
that the line that is being drawn is a line between
contact which is initiated by the prospective student
and proselytizing which is initiated by the school. Why
isn't that a reasonable line?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, because -- Ms. Mahoney
cited an example that does not require initiated school
contact. Question 3 prohibits all contact, whether it's
initiated by the school or initiated by the student.
In joint appendix 181 --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's not what we've got
before us.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Yes, we do. She cited
Question 3, and what it says is, no coach -- no. "A
coach may not contact a student or his or her parents
prior to -- "
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. We're still talking
about athletic contact.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Yes, but not necessarily
initiated by the coach. It would be, in fact,
impermissible. Under their interpretation of their own
rules, it would be impermissible for the coach to speak
to people at this practice.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. Maybe that would
present a different kind of problem, but that's not what
we've got here. What we've got here is contact through
speech that was initiated by the coach.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And I am saying that if the
rule generally -- maybe quite imprecisely -- but if it
generally distinguishes between that kind of
proselytizing by a coach, and on the other hand contact
that a kid initiates in the first place, isn't that
roughly a fair line?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, I don't think so,
Justice Souter, because once the association determines
that this activity is legitimate, and authorizes this
with respect to the feeder pattern, so that all public
schools can be --
JUSTICE SOUTER: The activity being tagging
along to spring practice?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Participating in spring
practice. And all the kind of activity that the
association objects to would be permitted if there were
a feeder pattern. And in this case, the kind of
activity that they say they want to isolate the students
from, what you were describing as coach-initiated
contact, all of that is permitted in the feeder pattern.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the answer to that is,
they're not trying to prevent people, at least under
this rule, they're not trying to prevent 8th grade kids
from going to spring practice. They're trying to
prevent coaches from proselytizing kids, and that's the
distinction. Why isn't it a reasonable distinction?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, the proselytization
here was found to be a harmless letter sent just
informing the kids that they had an opportunity. So I
guess it depends on how one characterizes what the
communication is.
We would characterize --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It was a letter from coach.
It was a letter from coach. I mean, that to a young
kid, that is recruiting. That is showing an interest on
the part of the person who's going to decide who plays,
an interest in you.
I think it's entirely reasonable to consider
that recruiting.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: But the letter,
Justice Scalia, went to all students, not just the
athletes. It was not targeted to any particular person.
All 12 students who -- male students who were admitted,
were incoming students, all of those students got the
letter. It wasn't targeted in any type of recruiting
mode. Every student who was admitted and signed the
contract received the letter.
And a 13th student who was admitted but who
did not sign the enrollment contract did not receive the
letter. So that the school was very careful, so that
they --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it fair to say "your
coach"? The letter was signed by your coach, not just
coach.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, these were incoming
students, Justice Ginsburg, and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And did it say, by the way,
everybody got this letter? Did it say that at the
bottom?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Again we think if the
practice itself was problematic, was educationally
unsound, if there was a risk of any of the interests
that were involved, then the association could and did
prohibit participation in that activity.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Weren't all these things
that are being discussed before the factfinder, or was
there some ex parte contact later which was the only
evidence for what we're talking about now? I'm getting
into the due process point.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: The information that was
before the factfinder had to do with, on the due process
point, had to do with a person who was not related to
the school but who had been, it turns out falsely,
accused of offering inducements to students to attend
the school.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I mean, all of these
matters were discussed and there was an opportunity to
reply to all of these matters that we've just been
talking about, correct?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Yes. There was a procedure
in which there was an exchange of letters between the
association and the school, in which the association had
some investigation and then the school had an
opportunity to respond. Yes, Judge Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It doesn't seem to me like
there's a strong case for a flawed hearing for a due
process violation.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: The problem was that the
district court made two findings in this regard that
were very important: That the association misled the
school as to what issues were still open and available;
and that ultimately a matter involving this Bart King
was discussed at the closed after-hearing session,
executive session, and the school had been told that the
Bart King allegations were no longer on the table.
Now, the school did put forward evidence
about one youngster named Jacques Curry who was alleged
to have been recruited by Bart King. Again, Bart King
had no status with the school at all. And they put
Jacques Curry before the hearing panel and the hearing
panel wound up restoring his eligibility.
But it turns out that they, at the trial,
that the association members, or the board of control,
admitted that they considered the Bart King allegations
to enhance the penalty. So it must have been something
beyond Jacques Curry and that the school was never
informed that the Bart King's involvement beyond Jacques
Curry had anything to did with the proceedings.
So the district court found there was
misleading of the school and that they -- the school
never had a chance to respond to the evidence that was
presented by these investigators for the association.
And so therefore they did not have evidence, they were
not aware of evidence, and they didn't have a chance to
respond or to reply to that evidence.
JUSTICE BREYER: What was the evidence?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE BREYER: What was the evidence?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: We don't know what the
evidence was.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, at this late date,
you've had trials. You're saying -- did you ask? With
all these people under oath, haven't you had trials and
everything?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, the evidence suggested
that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Did you ever ask the people
who were at the meeting, what was the evidence you
considered that we haven't had a chance to see?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: And --
JUSTICE BREYER: Did you or not?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And then, and what did they
say?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: The evidence was the notes
that was presented were the notes taken by the
investigators.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So there were
some notes taken by investigators, which did they have
anything new in them you hadn't seen before?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: We hadn't seen, we hadn't
seen them before the hearing.
JUSTICE BREYER: What was in there that you
had not seen before in the notes?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, again I think that
what was -- what was available to the association was --
excuse me --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm asking you: What was
in the notes that were presented to the decisionmaker
that you had not previously seen and therefore had no
opportunity to rebut? What particularly and
specifically? And it's surprising to me that you
hesitate at this very late date if this is a serious
issue.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, we did not know that
those issues were even on the table. The executive
director testified at trial that the issue of Bart King
was no longer on the table, and the notes were not
presented to the --
JUSTICE BREYER: What did it say in the
notes that you, a factual matter or some other, that you
did not have a chance to reply to specifically?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, we learned that the
investigators had not spoken to Mr. King.
JUSTICE BREYER: What you learned was the
investigators had not spoken to Mr. King, and you
previously did not know that, and if you had known that
you would have said to the decisionmaker: The
investigators did not speak to Mr. King. And if you had
said that, how would this case be different?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: What we would have been in a
position to say, Your Honor, was that we want to
understand what your perception, your, the
investigators' perception, is of what Bart King's
relationship to Brentwood Academy is and how -- and what
he is alleged to have done.
We have no control, we had no knowledge, of
anything that Mr. King did, and if any of those
allegations were true the school wanted an opportunity
to disassociate itself.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the other side says,
Mr. Bart King was part of the school and had something
to do with this?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: No --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: I don't believe that they've
taken that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well then, I don't
understand what the relevance of this is.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I thought your claim was
that you had a witness available to testify, but you
didn't put him on because you didn't think they were
going into this issue. That's all.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: This was Mr. King himself
was availability. And he -- and we put him up, offered
him for --
JUSTICE BREYER: But I don't understand what
Mr. King has to do with this if the other side is not
claiming that Mr. King is part of your operation.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: But the association, the
association association witnesses testified at trial,
Justice Breyer, that in fact they -- that they
considered the King allegations. We don't know exactly
what that meant at the trial.
JUSTICE BREYER: Who considered it?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: That the board of control,
the TSSAA board.
JUSTICE BREYER: Did you ask the people on
the board of control, what role did Mr. King play in
your decision?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: And the answer that was
given at trial, and the trial judge found this, was that
he played a role, not in the liable but in the penalty.
JUSTICE BREYER: So that they might have
reduced it ed it from $3,000 to less had they not been
under the mistaken impression that Mr. King had
something to do with you when he did it.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: And specifically to mention
the terms, the length of the probation, is what they
said, the probation.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the probation was --
and the probation, which was for four years?
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: And have you served the
four years.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Well, I believe one year has
been served at this point.
JUSTICE BREYER: So there is three more
years? So if in fact you are correct that they were
under a misapprehension on this matter, then the thing
to do would to be find out if that extra three years had
something to do with this erroneous thing of Mr. King?
It's surprising to me all of this is coming up now, but
there we are. So but that's your specific claim.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: The concern was that the
association had told us, and the district court found
this, that the King allegations were not on the table.
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought it was a
different claim. I thought you were claiming there was
a violation of due process because an investigator spoke
without you present to the board.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And that I would think was
not a violation of the Constitution since it happens
every day of the week in administrative agencies. But
if you want to claim it is, I'll be happy to listen.
And I think in that you're saying the
Administrative Procedures Act is unconstitutional, which
would be a surprising claim to me.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: No, but that we -- that the
disclosure of evidence as a basis of decision and an
opportunity to respond to that evidence in a
disciplinary hearing this Court has held as recently as
the Hamdi case and certainly in Laudermill that that is
an important procedural protection of due process, and
that's what we're seeking in this case as well, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you.
MR. BLUMSTEIN: Again, we think that the
First Amendment framework that exists for regulatory
cases fits this case well. The only difference is
whether or not there's a waiver. We think there's not a
waiver. The Government has claimed that they can define
away First Amendment rights. In our brief we address
that claim. We don't believe that the Government can
define away First Amendment rights, and there is not a
case that they have cited really that supports the
position that the First Amendment should apply
differently in this context, where the Government is
regulating just because it is, the source of authority
is a different source of authority, a non-sovereign
source of authority.
The Southeastern Promotions case, the Ibanez
case, those cases, the Barnett case, and the Fox case,
Justice Scalia's opinion in the Fox case, make it clear
that the source of authority, in that case universities,
is not determinative. The Fox case discussed the
elements of commercial speech and that arose in a
university context, but it's been applied across the
board in all commercial speech cases, regulatory cases,
whether there was sovereign power or, as in the case of
Fox, it was not sovereign power at all.
So we think that the First Amendment
doctrine, the rubric that we've described in our brief,
is the proper one that should be applied in this
circumstance and that there's not a need to carve out a
special exception, which is what the Government is
asking for and what the TSSAA is asking for, to
generally applicable First Amendment doctrine.
This is a case of content-based regulation.
The time, place, and manner defense therefore cannot
work as a defense, and we think therefore, the TSSAA
case collapses under First Amendment.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Mahoney, you have four minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN MAHONEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. MAHONEY: Thank you.
If I could respond to the due process
issues, this is still a very important claim because if
in fact the association has violated civil rights by
failing to give due process Brentwood would still be
entitled to an award of attorney's fees. And I think
it's critical that when an association enters into a
contract and agrees upon procedures, that if those
procedures can -- are not followed, a member of the
association can bring a breach of contract action in
State court.
But Brentwood did not do that. Instead it
tried to constitutionalize this contract dispute and
assert rights under Section 1983.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought it had some
State claims as pendant claims.
MS. MAHONEY: The only State claim they had
as a pendant claim was arbitrary action under State law,
and the district court dismissed that because it found
that the questions were sufficiently novel that he
didn't feel that he should entertain jurisdiction over
it. But they did not assert a breach of contract claim.
And it's important to note that the bylaws
actually provide that a member must be given, quote,
"notice of the charges and an opportunity to present its
case at a hearing." So if they actually did not get
notice of the charges involving Bart King, it would have
been a breach of contract. So that's the first problem,
is that the court of appeals didn't even look at the
fact that they had a contract remedy, just like the
contractor had in Lujan, and they simply weren't taking
advantage of it.
Second, the suggestion that they were not
actually given notice is contradicted by the record.
And it's not issues of credibility. This is just an
ultimate conclusion about whether they had sufficient
notice. And if you look at the record, the exchange of
letters, at JA-205 is the letter that starts by
disclosing the charges, and it specifically discloses
that the association investigators have talked to a
number of middle school students, have talked to a
number of middle school coaches, and details precisely
what those witnesses have said about Bart King.
Now they say, well, we didn't know that Bart
King was still involved by the time we got to the last
hearing. But look in fact what they did. They came to
the hearing. They submitted the affidavit of Bart King.
One of their live witnesses was Jacques Curry and the
only thing he testified about was his relationship with
Bart King.
And then they ran out of time. They ran out
of time. They had Bart King there. They were thinking
about putting him on live. They had had an allotted
period of time. They used it all up without putting --
JUSTICE BREYER: Was there anything at the
trial that came out that the investigator when they were
in the private session said a fact about Bart King of
supreme importance that they didn't know about?
MS. MAHONEY: Absolutely not, Your Honor.
There was absolutely nothing they've said that they
didn't know about.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, didn't one of the
decisionmakers testify that they relied on this --
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, most of them
actually testified that they did not.
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but one did.
MS. MAHONEY: There was one who had
testified --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And did not the district
court find that his testimony was credible?
MS. MAHONEY: He did, Your Honor, and -- but
even if that's true, even if the board did rely on
evidence about Bart King in deciding what penalty ought
to be, how much probation, whatever, that still does not
establish that there was a due process violation because
they had notice that the Bart King issues could be
considered at this trial. They actually submitted
evidence. They submitted Bart King's affidavit and the
record shows that the board said they considered all the
evidence that had been submitted.
And when they -- and the reason they didn't
put him on, they say: "It was our intention to put him
on, but I don't know if you are all interested in
extending for five minutes to hear from Bart King or
not. He's here if you want him." Carter responds "No."
He doesn't say: The King issues aren't on the table.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
We're not going to extend for five minutes.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:24 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
28:17 addition 16:12 alleged 28:11 20:2 28:8 40:2 17:16 18:16,24
56:11 additional 20:2 allegedly 4:4 applied 7:8 10:2 26:6 27:11
51:9 allow 28:17,25 25:4 31:2 32:21 33:4,14
23:13 adheres 3:11 22:23 25:20 36:22 41:11 43:8
14:14 26:3 50:15,18 22:19 38:10 31:1,6 51:13 45:7 46:16
admitted 42:13 alternative 5:21 applying 25:17 48:20,21,21
42:16,18 44:24 21:17 appropriate 50:6 52:23
17:14 advance 12:16 Amendment 20:7 association's
32:25 advantage 54:1 17:19,25 18:9 36:18,21 assume 14:2
23:16 23:2,8 25:3,4 36:18 athlete 9:8
advertising 29:18 30:6 arbitrary 53:12 19:3 42:12
affect 35:1 32:10 33:5 areas 25:16 3:14 12:25
55:22 51:11,13 52:3 2:2,5,9,12 3:3 17:14 18:16,24
44:13 American 7:18 arguments athletics 13:1
24:13 ago 34:19 17:1 arrives 37:14 attacking 27:18
25:11 agree 22:24 23:7 analysis 6:16 articulated 36:9 attempting 19:3
28:2 33:10 16:9 33:5 asking 22:25 attend 19:18,23
16:10 19:17,17 assert 53:8,16 28:13 43:19
32:15,18 53:2 41:16 49:6 assessing 8:18 attention 28:13
39:8,9 aimed 10:18 anti-recruiting 35:14 attorney 35:21
41:4,7 33:2 12:21 27:14 Assistant 1:18 attorney's 52:25
43:9 Alito 30:2,9,10 30:3,5 31:15 associated 22:18 attributable
1:22 2:4,7,11 bonuses 31:25 C 14:8,12 35:13
32:22,22 25:25 37:12 bound 38:20 CAJA-1889 50:24
52:19 breach 16:17 11:15 certification
29:22 30:19 breeze 35:17 calculating 33:6 challenge 17:17
48:15 benefactor 11:11,25 13:15 call 21:9 26:7 45:24 47:7
44:11 beneficial 34:12 16:1,12 20:15 35:12 changed 15:11
48:11 34:16 26:3,10 27:13 calls 9:12 character 18:24
36:11 Brentwood's careful 35:2,12 41:25
26:1,19,22,25 47:5,10 48:1,5 20:5,19 23:24 8:3,11 9:3,10
29:19 30:8,11 49:23 50:8,13 35:10,11,20,20 17:3 21:4,9,15
32:4,6,11 brief 6:6,9 15:2 36:20,25 37:3 25:21 26:1
37:17,25 38:9 briefs 6:5 51:1,6,12,18 children 19:6
43:25 44:8 broader 20:22 cases 3:15 6:17 38:3
47:2,19 45:12,14,20,25 brochure 20:13 7:1,16,20 choices 31:13
53:21 46:2,5,11,15 20:23 21:10 17:11 20:5 choosing 17:15
46:25 47:8,16 22:4 24:23,24,24,25 chose 30:5 31:13
55:1,17 48:4,6,14,20 brokers 22:18 25:1 30:14 31:14
56:3 49:1,6,13,18 built 36:15 33:7 35:18 Christian 15:22
51:12 51:23,25 considered 16:10 28:23 curiae 1:20 2:8
39:10,10 36:2 44:24 54:3 Curry 11:24
48:10 5:17,25 50:14 core 4:3 9:20
communicating constitutional 34:9 D
52:22 26:12 6:24 29:4,8 Cornelius 7:16 D 3:1
communication 37:18 correct 29:3 DAN 1:18 2:6
50:9 communicatio... constitutionally cost 33:7 35:22 46:23
31:9 18:2 contact 5:6 11:5 56:7 dealing 7:10
compete 25:12 13:24 14:15 course 23:9 32:1 18:18
22:23 15:19 17:15 28:25 39:20,25 court 1:1,13 19:22,23,25
10:13 concern 5:23 8:9 43:12 8:18 9:1 12:12 31:25
20:19,21 8:12,19 9:15 contacting 16:15 17:4,6 deciding 17:7
29:1 10:3 38:12 13:15 19:8,15 20:9 25:20 55:17
50:5 content-based 26:2 34:12 decision 29:3
42:3 concerns 4:1 52:10 35:21 37:17 35:10 36:24
6:24 context 6:16 44:9 45:4 50:6 49:5 50:21
41:20 conclusion contexts 17:20 53:23 55:14 46:19 47:13
16:18 54:5 continues 12:15 Court's 3:15 decisionmakers
11:5 41:14 conditions 3:20 16:13,15,17 36:24 17:8 18:4
33:11,17 34:1 53:2,4,7,16,22 credibility 54:4 52:11,12
20:15 34:10 39:11,16 53:24 credible 55:14 deferential
34:18 conducts 15:23 contractor 7:1,3 credulity 5:9 17:19,19 19:1
33:3 7:13 17:12 criteria 3:18 20:7 25:3,17
36:2,3 8:10,17 9:16 contracts 11:13 53:1 define 18:23
9:19 11:14,17,25 criticism 8:23 51:8,11
43:11,22 44:13 effective 34:15 enters 33:5 53:1 exercising 6:18
dismissed 53:13 eighth 10:13,24 entirely 3:22 exists 51:5
53:7 either 6:13,13 42:8 10:7
52:4 distribute 22:16 elements 51:23 equation 23:15 extend 56:8
37:17 44:9 eligibility 44:21 escape 3:16 extra 50:1
doing 5:13 emphasize 15:6 establish 17:8 F
dotted 37:15 employee 7:4 established 38:1 fact 7:6 11:22
13:4 draw 32:10 employer 17:12 14:12 20:20 28:25
due 14:21 15:1 employs 25:2 36:22 37:11 48:22 49:24
32:21 34:23 43:14,16 enforcement evidence 19:24 54:15 55:1
51:6 44:6 50:10,25 3:13,24 32:14 37:19 factfinder 43:11
20:1 D.C 1:9,16,19 33:11 35:11 44:16 45:6,8,9 factual 47:6
40:17 36:20 45:10,11,13,15 failing 52:24
50:9 E engaging 6:20 45:20,23 46:5 fair 6:6,7 34:22
E 2:1 3:1,1 9:8 50:21,22 55:17 41:1 42:22
easily 7:9 19:1 enroll 14:4 ex 43:12 31:1,4,5,6
educational 4:23 10:20 exception 52:7 family 38:1
38:2 13:20 19:14,19 54:6 father 28:12
29:17 27:20 34:23 41:25 47:17 49:18
27:9 41:23 45:4 go 11:11 21:7 Hamdi 50:24 hypothetical
55:14 49:7 50:6 38:7,20 hand 17:22 18:1 7:12 21:20,24
27:23 four 13:9 49:17 goes 12:9 handbook 15:11
49:20 52:16 going 8:5,22 happen 37:20 I
5:15 10:25 15:8 17:9 govern 18:23 13:4 implementing
freedom 36:12 governance 28:3 harmless 41:23 32:20
funding 6:20 government headmaster importance 55:2
23:2,8 7:19,20 24:24 6:18,23 7:2 5:11 important 8:5
26:7 furthers 23:21 17:8,12,20,22 hear 3:3 56:3 9:25 15:6
27:10,19 future 32:15 17:23 18:1,10 hearing 44:6,20 44:10 50:25
29:18 18:11 25:1,2 44:20 46:12 52:22 53:17
31:15,22 G 25:18 30:13,14 50:23 53:20 importantly
33:5 G 3:1 30:16 31:18,22 54:15,16 11:15
40:25 game 9:12 34:21,24 35:15 heightened imposed 3:25
gathers 35:16 35:16 36:25 18:15,21 13:23
general 1:19 51:8,10,14 held 16:15 50:23 imprecisely
7:14 20:13 52:7 helps 6:12 40:22
generally 20:24 31:21 Himmelfarb imprimatur
22:2 23:10 grammar 20:14 25:22 42:14,25
getting 43:13 grant 18:7 hold 3:12 inconsistent
interpretation Jacques 44:17 35:24 36:7,17 30:17,20 33:12
interpreted 28:6 54:17 38:14 39:4,5 41:12
invalid 35:16 2:10 25:24 40:16,21 41:3 16:11 33:2
32:20 investigator join 4:10 8:5 43:2,10,21 47:2,9,11,14
5:16,25 investigators 25:8,12,13 45:16,22 46:1 48:18,19,23
34:14 45:7 46:7,9 30:5 31:14 46:3,8,13,18 49:4,11 50:2,7
47:9,11,14,19 joined 27:10 47:5,10 48:1,5 53:21 54:12,14
invitationals joint 18:20 20:2 48:25 49:3,9 55:1,17,20
41:24 invite 4:9,15 judge 44:4 49:7 50:8,13 51:3 King's 45:2
39:20,21 invitee 4:10 jurisdiction 55:6,10,13 know 5:10 8:13
40:1,1 involved 7:19 30:22,24 53:15 56:7 9:11 10:9 22:5
12:23 43:8 Justice 1:19 3:3 justification 35:18 38:4
15:7 involving 4:4 12:20 13:3,14 47:22
19:11 36:13 44:12 K known 47:12
14:1,19
19:21
56:1 issuance 36:21 21:4,9,15,19 24:12,23 25:9 language 18:12
4:8 8:19 10:8 22:13,21,22,25 26:24 27:1 large 13:23
12:12,16 12:6 14:23 23:7,14,23 43:10,21 44:4 late 45:16 46:23
16:8 29:16 24:3,12,23 44:5 53:9 Laudermill
32:25 46:24 47:2 25:9,15,21 Kennedy's 16:7 16:12 50:24
39:1 48:13 26:1,16,20,24 kept 14:19 law 16:14 53:12
issues 44:11 27:1,2,8,22 key 6:8 7:15 lawful 34:10
23:21 56:5 30:9,10,25 kids 10:24 41:18 16:2 30:6
39:15 i.e 25:11 31:4,8,9,12,24 41:20,24 leagues 22:18
32:5,9 33:3,13 kind 5:12 7:22 30:3
32:25 53:25 45:16 44:17 odd 34:4
41:4 Lusk 7:18 means 5:21 Nashville 1:22 offensive 18:12
28:9,12 2:3,13 3:6,7,9 measured 3:18 need 36:9 52:6 24:7 48:15
32:17 4:6,18 5:22 meeting 45:23 never 29:24 offering 6:19
41:23 6:14 7:6,15 8:2 member 8:22 32:21,23 33:6 43:19
8:8,17 9:5,14 15:5 16:4 34:25 36:6 offers 17:9,14
9:19,23 10:5 17:16 18:17 45:1,6 officials 7:25 9:4
54:7 10:25 11:13 53:3,18 new 36:15 46:10 oh 24:19 36:4
54:7 13:7,17,21 8:7 15:7 28:4 33:25 okay 11:10
15:21 16:23 membership 15:8 35:15 38:16
22:1 36:20 methods 21:16 47:6 30:7 36:8
37:15 42:13 middle 11:2 29:17 53:19,21 opportunity
man 28:17 17:21 54:10,11 54:3,6 55:20 15:18 26:13
manner 52:11 minds 38:25 novel 53:14 39:14 41:24
35:22 misapprehens... O opposing 18:18
47:3 49:25 56:11 mistaken 49:11 objects 41:11 25:24
9:19 43:23 moment 24:13 30:16 34:19 28:2,3 34:17
35:1 MAUREEN 37:14 35:11 36:24 34:21,24
53:23 1:16 2:3,13 3:7 money 18:7 obliged 27:7 organized 17:14
52:18 32:11 occupies 17:21 ought 55:17
22:1 25:2 28:3 10:5 12:17 9:14,23,24 51:18
49:3 43:14,17 49:22 probation 49:14 proper 52:5
39:2 policies 8:25 55:18 18:7 24:25
20:2,3 period 12:3 15:19 53:22 proselytization
33:19 54:23 power 6:19,23 problematic 41:22
40:7 39:8 8:12 11:19 procedures 21:21 39:20
42:6 41:11,15 34:1 38:10,11 proceedings protected 29:5
person 12:1 42:6 38:16 40:15 45:3 protection 23:2
33:25 11:20 precisely 25:19 16:18 26:9 protections
Petitioner 1:5 preliminary 4:6 43:14,16 44:7 provide 16:10
43:9 2:14 3:8 17:2 50:11 53:19 52:24 55:19 provider 17:13
phone 11:20 46:6,19 47:4 28:15 30:13 public 7:4 8:6,9
35:23 6:14 7:9 pretty 22:22 programs 22:15 13:4,10,11,15
pieces 27:15 prevent 6:2 prohibit 22:9 28:4 41:5
play 15:4,7,8 preventing prohibited punishing 34:3
24:16 49:4 23:12 39:1 23:5 26:11
49:8 please 3:10 17:4 10:3 13:6,10 21:1 44:16,19 48:12
26:2 15:22 18:3 prohibits 22:12 48:15 56:1,1
plurality 18:14 55:1 promise 32:15 putting 54:22,23
relevance 29:20 3:23 17:24 23:1,4,5,8,11
19:21 recognized 27:5 rely 55:16 retain 19:3 27:18,24,25
38:23 32:21 remainder reversed 20:10 29:7 30:3
recognizing 16:21 review 17:19,19 31:15 32:20
33:4 remaining 52:17 19:1 20:8 25:3 33:2 34:22
53:14 11:14,16 14:12 19:7 reviewed 19:11 40:22 41:18
recruit 13:13 45:10 47:7 22:6 23:3 24:6 18:23 26:15
13:9 17:18 27:25 26:4 31:23
7:21 11:4 39:1,9 42:5,9 31:22 35:23 7:23 8:3,11 9:3 satisfied 19:1
25:12 42:15 36:12 41:5 9:10 12:20 satisfies 20:7
29:15,17 reduced 49:10 respond 22:19 13:3 15:20 satisfy 16:11
referees 18:19 44:4 45:6,10 16:22 21:4,9 save 16:21
55:25 regard 44:9 Respondent 25:21 31:24 27:14 34:6
14:8 16:4 25:25 56:7 40:21 45:17
regulate 32:22 Respondent's role 20:5,6 49:4 50:17
35:3 32:23 6:6 49:8 says 5:5 6:17
39:22 regulating 17:10 responding room 37:13 8:23 9:19
42:8 37:2,10 51:15 19:20 roughly 41:1 33:15 38:15
35:20 52:10 response 20:12 rubric 52:4 Scalia 30:25
23:21 30:13 31:18 restoring 44:21 7:24 8:22 10:2 35:6,13,24
51:5,25 restrict 37:1 10:10,12 11:3 36:7,17 42:3
related 24:10 restricting 14:17,20 15:11 Scalia's 51:20
52:18 6:21 25:18 9:24 21:2 20:16 21:18 school 1:3 3:4
5:7 6:3 seen 46:10,11,12 situation 19:16 23:17 24:8,11 55:13
9:11 46:14,20 21:14 36:19,21 24:20 32:13,22 stifle 14:18
11:2 self-evidently Sixth 5:8 16:19 33:7,9,11 34:2 stipulation
13:10 19:4 solicit 14:5 34:9,11,12,20 27:23
14:6,15 send 14:3 21:10 solicitation 5:1 34:24 35:1,23 stop 16:1
19:3,9 22:14,17 14:4 23:25 36:5,9,12 37:2 stopped 27:18
20:1 sending 32:17 Solicitor 1:18 39:16 40:19 stopping 12:12
21:10 sense 7:4 solution 34:3 51:23,25 stops 27:13
22:3 sensible 12:8 Somebody speed 28:14 strain 5:9 7:20
23:1 sent 4:22,24 5:1 19:21 spoke 50:10 strength 28:15
26:6,8 5:10 10:13 somewhat 14:23 spoken 47:9,11 strong 7:13
11:1,7 20:13 25:9 sports 15:5,24 12:17 30:4
20:24 41:23 sorry 21:4 24:2 19:6 44:6
33:1,15 serious 46:23 29:14 45:12 spring 4:20 8:12 stronger 24:5
37:13 serve 26:16 sort 29:16 26:13 33:24,25 34:5
served 49:19,22 sorts 18:4 22:23 38:16 41:8,9 strongly 33:1
service 17:13 sound 38:19 41:19 structure 28:3
42:20 session 44:13,14 source 51:15,16 square 10:6 student 11:7,16
44:2 55:1 51:17,21 standard 17:6 19:16 28:20
set 15:2 30:2 Souter 10:5 19:1 20:8 37:7 39:20
45:1,5,5 severely 26:10 11:10 12:4,8 23:19 30:18 40:1,7 42:16
48:2 shoot 35:17 37:4,22 38:4 standards 7:8 42:18
short 20:4 38:14 39:4,5 16:12 students 4:9,13
shows 55:23 40:16,21 41:3 started 6:3 5:17 6:3 10:14
16:2,4 side 6:13 29:16 41:7,16 starts 54:7 11:2,3,5,17
18:17 48:1,18 Souter's 19:21 state 3:11,21 13:15 14:6
21:21 sides 23:15 Southeastern 6:18 12:24 18:17 19:8,16
25:8 sign 11:16 12:17 51:18 14:3 15:18,23 19:24 20:14,25
33:16 19:24 42:19 sovereign 6:19 15:24 16:14,17 21:21 22:2,16
signed 4:21 17:11,22 18:10 24:13,14,21 22:20 23:12
12:5,10 22:1,3 speak 40:14 36:14 37:24 33:15,25 38:20
42:23 specific 20:25 States 1:1,13,20 42:14 43:1,19
54:2 signing 19:19 35:21 46:22 status 44:19 subcategory
26:6 29:20 54:8 Stevens 20:11 subject 12:2
56:9,11 46:9 48:7 20:19 21:2,3,4 48:21,24 49:7 3:19 4:4 6:12
8:24 22:7,10,11,12 55:21 Unconstitutio...
talking 29:18 25:14,15 30:11 trophy 15:14 38:10,11
target 20:24 39:7 41:2 42:8 55:16 understood 10:8
45:20 42:15 48:12 50:13,17 trying 14:16 14:11,12
17:2 telling 21:11 third 3:24 TSSAA 3:12 United 1:1,13,20
Tennessee 1:3 36:25 37:3 16:4 17:14,18 universities
34:21 24:16 26:6 27:24 28:20 26:7,15 27:5 university 36:14
30:19 49:14 thousand 31:25 TSSAA's 18:25 21:5,15 22:9
25:15 testified 47:2 9:10 49:23 36:14 uphold 35:4
testify 48:11 time 4:7 5:23 turning 24:13 19:2
testimony 55:14 52:11 54:14,20 43:18 44:22 usually 21:23
25:21 51:3 tipped 37:18 10:16 26:18 V
theorem 7:14 told 4:7 44:14 two-sentence various 25:16
50:7 things 8:4 15:3 tournaments violate 27:25
22:4,23 43:10 3:22 15:18,23 U 29:6
18:6 9:6,14 10:1,19 14:14 44:12 10:12 28:11
27:1 10:25 13:17,21 treated 9:15 Umbehr 6:21,22 30:6 44:7
14:2,7,9 16:9 29:25 6:25 7:7 50:10,14 55:19
14:3 28:17 42:4
15:1 29:10 42:11
weren't 11:14 $
18:24 West 11:24 $300 28:25
25:18 We'll 3:3
30:12 we're 14:20 0
29:18 40:9 06-427 1:6 3:4
51:1 1
30:17,18 11:24 56:10
51:7,8 12 42:13
52:4
25:12 16 2:8
41:13 18 1:10
50:16 181 40:2
1983 53:8
34:18 1997-98 28:14
workplace 18:6 2
world 27:13 2007 1:10
18:20
36:19 2202 14:14
10:3 12:9 31:5 26 15:22
21:8 wrong 17:6 36:1 2705 13:11
36:1
3 2:4 5:4 39:4,25
Y
26:11 37:20
26:25 28:10 6
49:17,20,24 8
