IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
TELLABS, INC., ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 06-484
MAKOR ISSUES & RIGHTS, :
LTD., ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 28, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C., on behalf of
Petitioners.
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Petitioners.
ARTHUR R. MILLER, ESQ., Cambridge, Mass., on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ.
As amicus curiae, supporting Petitioners 17
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ARTHUR R. MILLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioners 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
[10:02 a.m.]
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in case 06-484, Tellabs, Inc. versus Makor
Issues & Rights.
Mr. Phillips.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
In 1995 Congress acted decisively to curb
abusive private securities litigation. It took the
extraordinary step of rejecting categorically the
traditional rule of notice pleading in complaints that
are filed under the securities laws. Instead it
declared that, and this is at page 2 of our petition,
"The complaint shall state with particularity facts
giving rise to a strong inference that the defendant
acted with the required state of mind."
The fundamental error in the court of
appeals analysis in this case was in writing out of the
statute the strong inference language that Congress
clearly intended to be not only in those statutes, but
obviously applied rigorously.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: At some point during your
argument -- and I know you only have 20 minutes -- will
you tell me whether or not in your view the pleading
standard that the judge must follow is equivalent, is
the same as the instruction that's given to the jury?
Because if it isn't, then the Seventh Amendment argument
may have some more force.
MR. PHILLIPS: I think the answer to the
question is that it does not have to be the same. I
think Congress actually has greater authority in dealing
with pleadings that is distinct from the Seventh
Amendment right, but the Court doesn't need to go that
far in this particular case because I think the
inferences that we are asking the Court to draw from the
record in this case would avoid any --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in writing -- I take
it, so far as the jury, it's just whether it's more
likely than not, preponderance of the evidence.
MR. PHILLIPS: That's what the Court held --
held in Huddleston, yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So your submission is,
maybe not in this case, but insofar as your theory of
the case, that the trial judge can, and in fact must
basically apply a standard of fact -- standard of proof
that's higher than that what the jury would.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it's important as a
standard of allegation, because what we're talking about
here is an analysis of the allegations of the lawyers,
and not any kind of an evidentiary showing by any of the
plaintiffs. So I do think it's removed. I mean, this
Court has really never addressed the issue of the extent
to which the Seventh Amendment extends to pleadings.
And I don't think this is the case in which to take up
that issue because I think it is quite clear that what
at least we're asking for as the appropriate
interpretation of the Reform Act is that you need to
apply -- that you simply follow Matushita and Monsanto,
and that is to force the plaintiffs to demonstrate that
innocent explanations can be set aside. And if you take
that particular approach, which clearly is consistent
with the Seventh Amendment, then it seems to me you --
the Seventh that you followed under the Constitution, is
eliminated.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Phillips, the Seventh
Amendment or not, the question in 12(b)(6) is has the
plaintiff stated a claim, and at the end of the line
it's has the plaintiff proved a claim. But you're
stating two different claims. The claim that must be
stated is a stronger claim than the claim that must be
proved, and I don't know of any other instance where
that is so.
MR. PHILLIPS: I don't know that there are
any other instances in which that's true,
Justice Ginsburg, but I don't think it's a
constitutional problem. I think at the end of the day
the question is, does Congress have the power to enforce
its view of the appropriate way to proceed as a matter
of policy at the pleadings stage, and I think the answer
to that question is yes. But again, you don't have to
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I wasn't asking it as a
matter of constitutional law but I'm thinking, how do
you construe these words, what is it, "strong
inference?" And the words come out of, as I understand
it, a Second Circuit decision. So I would think the
most logical thing is that you'd look at the Second
Circuit decision and say ah, Congress picked up those
words from the Second Circuit decision, then we should
pick up the standards that the Second Circuit applied.
But your definition of strong inference is
quite different from what the Second Circuit's was.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I'm not sure that's 100
percent true. I think the real problem with the Second
Circuit is there's no monolithic Second Circuit rule
that's out there. The Second Circuit applied a number
of cases under its particularity standards under 9(b)
prior to the time Congress adopted the strong inference
standard. Some of them -- I think we would be very
comfortable with the analysis in Shields versus
Citytrust Bank, for instance. The way Judge Jacobs
analyzed the complaint in that case is precisely the way
we're trying to analyze the complaint in this case. So
if you --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Phillips, can I ask
this question?
MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE STEVENS: One of the amicus briefs
talks in terms of the percentages, how likely the
inference, the word strong inference means 50 percent,
30 percent, 60 percent. Do you think the inference has
to be stronger or less strong than the inference of
probable cause in an affidavit for a search warrant to
get access to the privacy of a home and so forth?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think it would have to be
stronger than that, although I don't know how to
translate that into percentages, Justice Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: A civil case would impose
a higher standard for getting discovery in a civil case
than they would for getting access to a citizen's
private papers and the like?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think the use of the
language "strong inference" carries with it a very
significant burden that has to be demonstrated by the
buyer.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: A burden of over 50
percent?
MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, to be sure.
JUSTICE SCALIA: In a criminal case, the
person seeking that action is a government officer who
presumptively is not acting out of selfish motives,
whereas we're talking about private suits and some
private litigants are selfish.
MR. PHILLIPS: Absolutely, Justice Scalia.
And if you read the Securities Industries amicus brief,
it ticks off all of the instances of harm that are
caused by allowing -- too much of the private litigation
is precisely that, which Congress was responding to.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just have to make it
clear. Is the high likelihood, or strong inference, is
greater than more likely than not?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. I believe Congress
would have intended it to be more --
JUSTICE ALITO: Doesn't the -- doesn't the
standard at the pleading stage have to be the same as
the standard at the summary judgment stage? If --
suppose that a certain set of facts is sufficient to
defeat summary judgment. If the plaintiff alleges all
of those facts in the complaint, are you saying that
that complaint could be dismissed even though supporting
those facts at the summary judgment stage would be
enough to defeat a summary judgment motion?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think at the end of the day
I would make that argument. I don't have to make that
argument here because it's clear to me that the same
standards of Matushita and Monsanto that say you have to
exclude innocent explanations would apply at the summary
judgment stage as we're trying to apply at the pleading
stage, so there is no disconnect.
But if I were actually forced into that
position, I think I would take that view, although I
probably would argue first that the standard of
Huddleston ought to be reconsidered, rather than
rejecting clearly what Congress had in mind in 1995 when
it acted to curb the abuses of private securities
litigation.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't the difference
between Matsushita and this particular case at least as
you are presenting this case, the -- the -- focused on
the strength of this exclusion of innocent conduct?
As, as I recall Matsushita, there -- there
had to be at that stage, there had to be evidence from
which one could infer that the -- that the conduct was
not innocent; but you're arguing for something stronger
than that. You're arguing for, in effect, an -- an
ultimate conclusion that excludes innocent conduct. And
aren't you asking for more than just what Matsushita did
at -- at that later stage?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think there may be a slight
semantic difference there, but the truth is at end of
the day all we're asking for the Court to do is to
evaluate the complaint, taking both the positive and the
negative inferences from it, excluding ambiguities,
interpreting them not in favor of the plaintiff, as you
traditionally do, take into account whether there is an
allegation of motive, and say at the end of the day
whether or not that reaches a -- rises to the level of a
strong inference.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But -- but Matsushita as I
recall did not require it to rise beyond the level of a
plausible inference. And I think you're arguing for
something stronger than that. And I think the language
of Congress forces you to do it but I -- I'm just
finding it difficult to conclude -- to equate the
plausibility standard in, in Matsushita with the strong
inference standard here. If you --
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, if I'm going to err on
either side, I obviously prefer that the Court carries
out Congress's intent. We thing you needn't go any
further than Matsushita did in order to reverse the
court of appeals in this particular case.
Obviously there is probably some potential
distance between the two, where you could certainly
interpret the strong inference standard more in the line
the way the United States interprets it, as creating a
high likelihood of scienter. And we don't -- we're
certainly not objecting to that. We're just saying to
the Court that you needn't go that far in order to
decide this case, although obviously we would welcome a
ruling along those lines if the Court's inclined to go
that far.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it fair to say at the
pleading stage it's the equivalent of a clear and
convincing standard, whereas at the end of the road it
would only be more probable than not?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, again, I think it -- I
think it puts an issue -- and we raised this in our
reply brief, whether or not Huddleston should be
reconsidered in light of this sort of basic change in
the way Congress is approaching private securities
litigation. But, so my --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you do --
MR. PHILLIPS: There are a number of ways to
go at it. But if it turned out to be a disconnect, that
would not offend at least my sense of what Congress was
trying to achieve here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah. Well, I don't think
Congress was trying to achieve an alteration in the
ultimate standard, either, in the jury standard. What
it was concerned with is the enormous expense of -- of
discovery. And, and tried to set a high wall to get to
the discovery stage. I don't know why that should have
to affect or should logically affect the standard that
the jury is told to use.
MR. PHILLIPS: All I'm suggesting is that if
the Court were concerned that somehow there is a
disconnect between the pleading standard and the
ultimate standard of proof, the way to resolve that
incongruity -- if it is one -- would to be reconsider
the ultimate standard of proof, not to throw out the
clearly congressionally approved baby as part of that
bath water.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me a little
bit of how -- how this should work in your view? Assume
the CEO makes misstatements as to the earnings report
and the acceptance of one of its new products. Just
assume that.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can we make a strong
inference that a CEO knows what his own earnings reports
are?
MR. PHILLIPS: You mean with a specific
earnings report rather than just simply sort of sales
projections and demand?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can we make a strong
inference that a CEO knows the status of current
earnings --
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, my guess is they --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- when he makes, when he
makes a statement.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think they would have
to make an allegation that the -- that the CEO routinely
is provided with that information rather than simply
assume it. I think it's the same problem you have with
their -- with their allegation that it's common sense
that CEOs will act to protect their own personal self
interest and the overall welfare of the company by
misrepresenting the status of events.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How about just saying that
he knew it?
MR. PHILLIPS: I'm not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just saying that he knew
it. Without saying why they knew that he knew it?
You're saying they have to give a reason why they knew
that he knew it, namely he routinely read these reports?
Suppose they didn't say that. They just said knowing
that the -- that the figures were otherwise, he -- he
set them forth.
MR. PHILLIPS: I don't think that's
sufficient, because it requires for the facts that
particularly show --
JUSTICE BREYER: But suppose it says, which
I think it did say, that Mr. Notebaert typically stayed
on top of the company's financial health by having
weekly conversations with other executives. He had his
hands on the pulse of the company. He saw weekly sales
reports and product -- projection -- production
projections. Now it seems like an allegation that's
very specific.
MR. PHILLIPS: But the -- but the problem
with that allegation, and we're talking about the 6500,
the Titan 6500 product specifically, in that context,
the report is, there's nothing in there that says what
those reports say about the 6500. And remember, this is
a case where the plaintiffs have 27 whistleblowers
inside the company who could provide you with all of the
detail in the world; and yet when it comes time to tell
you what was in the 6500 report that would -- that would
suggest that it's not available, there's not word one in
the allegation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I thought they
alleged at least that for about a year previously in
respect to the 506500 that it was wrong known throughout
the company that the 6500 had been delayed. Don't they
make an allegation like that?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right but that's -- that
being delayed for a year is not the basis for the claim.
The question was is the, is the 6500 being sold; and
that was the allegation. And the answer to that is he
-- I -- he had every reason to believe that, based on
what they've claimed because they've not produced a
report or said that there's anything inside the report
that says to the contrary about that.
Again, it seems to me --
JUSTICE BREYER: The 6500 has long been
delayed. Everyone knows that in the company. So he
knows it's long been delayed.
MR. PHILLIPS: I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: Then what he says is it is
being shipped and delivered. Something like that.
MR. PHILLIPS: But Justice Breyer, that --
that long been delayed period runs all the way back to
1998. And we're talking about events in 2000 and 2001.
So the notion that it's been long delayed says nothing
about what Mr. Notebaert was -- was revealing in March
and April and June of 2001.
It, it could potentially, but it equally, it
couldn't. It's the same problem you get with the 5500,
where the court of appeals specifically said it is quite
plausible that Mr. Notebaert never saw those reports.
Now how you can make that concession and
nevertheless say there is a strong inference that he
acted to deceive, strikes me as absolutely implausible.
JUSTICE BREYER: April '01, he says
everything we can build we are building, and shipping.
The demand is very strong. And then what they say is of
course nobody wanted any of it, it was long delayed, and
they've known that since 1998 and he has his finger on
the pulse of the company.
MR. PHILLIPS: But you -- you --
Justice Breyer, you make a leap there.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh. Yeah.
MR. PHILLIPS: Is that they all knew that.
The point is they knew that it was delayed back in 1999.
What they don't do is tie that in to what he knew in
2001; and that, to me, that's the central point in this
case, is do you require that kind of specificity? And
it seems to me there's no other way to read what
Congress says in this statute than to that. I'd like to
reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you
Mr. Phillips.
Mr. Shanmugam.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAN,
ON BEHALF OF UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING PETITIONERS
MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
While meritorious private actions are an
essential supplement to Government enforcement of the
securities laws, abusive action impose substantial costs
on companies and their shareholders. As a cornerstone
of its effort in the Reform Act to address the problem
of abusive actions, Congress adopted uniform and more
stringent pleading requirements including the strong
inference requirement at issue in this case.
The court of appeals erred by holding that a
plaintiff can satisfy that requirement simply by
alleging facts which an inference of state of mind could
be drawn. The court of appeals thereby misinterpreted
the Reform Act. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you have a
position on Justice Alito's earlier question about
whether the standard at the summary judgment stage is
the same as the standard at the pleading stage?
MR. SHANMUGAM: First of all to be clear,
Mr. Chief Justice, we don't believe that the Court needs
to address that question in this case, because we don't
believe that that sort of disparity would present any
Seventh Amendment concerns. However, if the Court does
believe that any disparity in the degree of probability
required does present Seventh Amendment concerns, we
believe that it is more consistent with Congress's
intent to apply the strong inference requirement at the
proof stage as well as the pleading stage rather than to
water down the strong inference requirement that
Congress adopted at the pleading stage.
And we believe that that requirement does
impose a very high burden. In our view, it requires a
plaintiff to allege facts that give rise to a high
likelihood that the conclusion that the defendant acted
with the necessary date of mind follows from those
allegations.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And by the proof stage you
mean both summary judgment and submission to jury?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think that that is right,
Justice Kennedy. I suppose that if the perceived
constitutional concern is solely regarding the degree of
likelihood that is required, it could be applied simply
at the summary judgment stage; but to the extent that
the Court believes that it is a matter for the jury to
determine whether a given set of facts gives rise to an
inference of the requisite strength then yes, the jury
would need to be instructed in a manner consistent with
the strong --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What would you think about
the following --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I just -- may I just,
very briefly. . Putting aside the constitutional
problem, do you think the standards are the same or
different between the pleading stage and the
constitutional stage -- and the summary judgment stage?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, again, we don't
believe that the Court needs to address that question.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand that. That's
not my question.
MR. SHANMUGAN: And the statute by its terms
only --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It is either a yes or no
question.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think that the
answer is yes if the Court feels it needs to address
that question. And to be sure, the strong inference
standard that Congress adopted was framed only in terms
of the pleading stage. And our view --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- there was a pleading
stage, I would like your clear view on how much that
changes. It has been the understanding that when there
is a 12(b)(6) motion, you look only to the face of the
complaint and you construe the allegations in that
complaint in the light most favorable to the plaintiff.
Is that rule not applied under the
interpretation you are giving us of strong inference?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think that it is,
Justice Ginsburg, to this limited extent. In an
ordinary civil case, the case is governed of course by
Rule 8. And in some sense the rule that the allegations
in the complaint must be construed in the light most
favorable to the plaintiff is really derived from Rule 8
and its requirement that a plaintiff need only provide a
shortened claim statement of the relevant underlying
facts in order to survive a motion to dismiss.
What Congress did in the Reform Act was to
require first of all some degree of particularity in
allegation; but Congress went further than that; and to
the extent that Congress spoke in terms of the
inferences that can be drawn from those allegations, we
do believe that Congress abrogated the background rule
that the allegations must be read in the light most
favorable to the plaintiff, or as some courts have put
it, that all reasonable inferences that can be drawn
from the complaint should be drawn in the plaintiff's
favor.
That clearly is a change on the preexisting
law; and it is a change with regard to the law that
circuits were applying before the enactment of the
Reform Act.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why don't we simply assume
that the read most favorable to the plaintiff rule is
still in place, but that reading it most favorably to
the plaintiff, it must rise to the level of supporting
the strong inference?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I guess, Justice Souter,
that I would wonder what it would mean to say that you
read the allegations in the light most favorable to the
plaintiff. If what it means is that a plaintiff can
simply accumulate reasonable subsidiary inferences in
order to create the strong inference of state of mind
that is ultimately required, then I think I would
disagree that that rule remains in effect. Precisely
because our view is that in applying the strong
inference standard, a court should consider other
possible explanations for the defendant's conduct that
are not foreclosed by the allegations --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, but I was using the
word inference to -- to refer to some reasoning process
based upon what is stated. Not on assumptions favorable
to the plaintiff.
And if inference is to tie -- is, is a term
that is tied to what is alleged, then I don't see any --
any contradiction between reading those allegations most
favorably, but saying the statute in each statute
requires that the -- that the total force of the
inference rise to the level of strength that you speak
of.
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think our only concern,
Justice Souter, would be that where a plaintiff includes
ambiguous allegations in the complaint, a court should
consider the possibility that those ambiguities work to
the defendant's favor as well as working to the
plaintiff's favor. And one concrete example of that in
this case are the allegations that concern the Titan
5500. There are allegations in this case that there was
a study and there were various internal reports that
indicated that demand for that product was declining.
But the complaint does not specifically
allege that that study and those internal reports were
even available at the time the CEO made the alleged --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Shanmugam, could --
could I get you back to -- to your, your assertion of we
don't have to reach in this case the question of whether
the same standard applies at trial as, as at the
pleading stage?
It seems to me a Seventh Amendment claim has
been raised. It's our usual policy to avoid unnecessary
constitutional adjudication. If indeed the two
standards are the same, there's certainly no Seventh
Amendment problem. So why don't we have to first of all
decide, in resolving the Seventh Amendment claim,
whether the two standards are the same?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, that is certainly
correct, Justice Scalia, but in our view, there is no
constitutional problem here. And the reason that there
is no constitutional problem here is in making the
probabilistic determination that is required by the
Reform Act, a court is taking the allegations in the
complaint as true. It is not engaging in any weighing
of the evidence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you're getting to the
merits of the constitutional problem. And we usually
run away from constitutional problems. We don't even
want to consider the merits of it. And we don't have
to, if indeed the two standards are the same.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, to the extent that the
Court views the constitutional issue in this case as
sufficiently substantial to trigger the canon of
constitutional avoidance, then we do believe that the
better view, the view that is more consistent with
Congress's intent, is that if the Court is choosing
between raising the standard at the pre stage and
watering down the standard at the pleadings stage, we
believe that the former is more consistent with
Congress's --
JUSTICE ALITO: Even if there is no Seventh
Amendment problem, what sense would it make to have a
regime that says plaintiff has to plead more than the
plaintiff has to show at summary judgment or prove at
trial.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, Congress was
concerned, Justice Alito, with the problem of abusive
pleading. That much is crystal clear. And as part of
that concern, Congress was concerned that plaintiffs
could readily allege fraud by hindsight, and Congress
may have been concerned that the plaintiff could do so
not only by making a conclusory allegation of state of
mind, but also making a slightly less conclusory
allegation of state of mind by alleging facts that
merely give rise to a reasonable inference of state of
mind.
If Congress hadn't had that concern, it
obviously could have codified the reasonable inference
standard that was then in use by a number of other
courts.
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you think in
writing this opinion? There are a couple of ways. One,
you can find strong inference in terms of some other
words. Two, you could look to history. Or three, you
could just try an example. Say strong inference means
strong inference. Here's an example. This is a
complaint. It meets it, or it doesn't meet it. Which
way, in your opinion, will work best in this case?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Breyer, our primary
concern in this case is with the way that the Court of
Appeals articulated the applicable standard, which we
believe may have pernicious effects in future cases.
And so we certainly believe that it would be appropriate
for the Court to vacate and remand for the Court of
Appeals to apply the correct standard. But just to be
clear --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said the Court of
Appeals to apply it. Could the Court of Appeals
applying the standard that you say is correct come to
the same decision that it came to using a different
verbal formula.
MR. SHANMUGAM: In our view,
Justice Ginsburg, applying the correct standard, the
decision of the Court of Appeals in this case should be
reversed. And if the case were remanded to the Court of
Appeals for application of the standard, we certainly
think that the Court of Appeals should come out the
other way.
JUSTICE BREYER: You had something else to
say in answer to my question, which I would like to
hear.
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think it was just that
point, Justice Breyer, namely, that if the Court
believes that it would be useful to provide guidance to
the lower courts by applying the standard itself in this
case, we do believe that the decision of the Court of
Appeals should be reversed rather than vacated.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is the requisite standard,
knowledge of falsity.
MR. SHANMUGAM: The requisite scienter is
either intent or recklessness, with regard to the
underlying conduct at issue, in effect --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Intent to make a false
statement?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes, that's right. And in
fact, in misstatement cases, that is knowledge of
falsity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you
Mr. Shanmugam.
Mr. Miller.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ARTHUR R. MILLER
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS
MR. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court?
We believe the Seventh Circuit had it right.
We believe that what the Seventh Circuit, and this is in
partial response to you, Justice Breyer, is take more or
less a holistic view of the entirety of the complaint.
The business about the 5500, the business about the 6500
not being available when on December 11, 2000, Notebaert
says it's available, the fact that they weren't shipping
it, they weren't selling it, it didn't work, and the
extensive information from confidential sources that
there were, as one judge once referred to it, accounting
shenanigans going on, designed to shift income into the
fourth quarter of 2000.
We think that when the court looked at that,
it said, looks to us as if there's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do we take judicial notice
that a CEO knows these things and that's the strong
inference.
MR. MILLER: Again, you have confidential
sources in this case, and in the case, Notebaert is
hands on, he's talking to people, he's on the phone all
the time. We're talking about the 5500 --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you agree you have to
have that? You have to have some specific allegation to
show of his knowledge? We can't just infer that?
MR. MILLER: I would think you should be
able to infer it with the CEO. I think the confidential
sources demonstrate in this case, he must have had it,
given his nature, the status of these products, his
day-to-day --
JUSTICE BREYER: The most suspicious thing
in the complaint that I could find was where you say
there's an internal market report, and it revealed
demand for the 5500 was drying up, and revenue would
decline by 400,000,000. Then you date that with in or
about early '01. Now, I think if you knew or had reason
to believe that it was prior to March or April of '01,
you would have said so.
MR. MILLER: If we knew.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, and therefore,
there's quite a good chance here that this report was
written after he made the statements.
What am I supposed to do with that? I mean,
I know what you said. And you said your best. And
that's your best.
MR. MILLER: Yes. This notion of strategic
ambiguity is in a sense humorous, given the obstacles
that a plaintiff has to get the goods, so to speak.
Just think about the investigation efforts that went
into this case. What you do, Justice Breyer, is -- and
I think this is what the Seventh Circuit did -- look at
everything, look at the fact that you have got
confidential sources saying 5500 demand is drying up,
perhaps as early as middle 2000. Parts are not being
ordered. People are going home early. Verizon dropped
25 percent, fourth quarter. Verizon dropped 50 percent
in January.
You're the CEO. You don't know that your
flagship product is drying up? That there's inventory,
that people are going home? That your best customer
doesn't know you anymore?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're arguing the
facts and the inferences. You said the Seventh Circuit
got it right. As I read their articulation of the
standard on page 20A of the petition appendix, it's the
normal standard that would have been applied prior to
the passage of the PSLRA. Could a reasonable person
infer -- Congress passes a law saying they've got to
give rise to a strong inference. Shouldn't that have
changed the standard?
MR. MILLER: We believe two propositions.
Number one, you can't exceed the Seventh Amendment, and
the Seventh Circuit --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't understand
the Seventh Amendment argument here. Congress can
surely articulate the standard that's going to be
applied as a matter of substantive law. If Congress
says, you have to prove by clear and convincing
evidence, that doesn't interfere with the Seventh
Amendment because a jury would be instructed pursuant to
that standard.
MR. MILLER: That is correct, Chief Justice.
But that is not what Congress did. Congress did not
elevate the burden of proof. That is why Mr. Phillips
has asked you to, in effect, to overrule Huddleston.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but Congress just
established an entry qualification for getting into
court.
And there are a lot of entry qualifications.
In diversity cases, you -- if you allege diversity, and
it existed at the outset, that's fine. That doesn't
have to be proved at the end of the case. Indeed even
if you prove the contrary, the case is still validly
there. Congress can establish entry requirements even
when they differ from, or have indeed nothing to do with
the merits that the jury is supposed to decide.
MR. MILLER: I think that is absolutely
correct, and indeed rule 9(b) has been an entry
qualification since 1938. But there are entry
qualifications, and there are entry qualifications.
In this case, in effect, the motion to
dismiss operates as a dispositive motion. It cuts off
the ability to proceed at all, and it does it, if you
listen to the standards being proposed by Petitioner,
and by the United States --
JUSTICE BREYER: What's the difference
between what Justice Scalia was just saying? You can't
come into Federal court unless you have at least
$200,000 damages. Now, you might have been just as much
hurt if you had less, but that would be constitutional.
So here you can't get into Federal court unless you have
a really strong claim, an overwhelming claim that you
have to demonstrate at the beginning.
Now, you might have a good claim, but we're
not going to let you come into Federal court. We only
want those people who are really strong, just as we only
want those people who are really suffering.
MR. MILLER: And did Congress raise the
burden --
JUSTICE BREYER: No. No, not the burden
of -- it's the entry.
MR. MILLER: The entry points you referred
to, the so-called pleas in abatement, to put on my
common law hat, a jurisdiction venue, et cetera, they
may raise issues of fact and Congress, in control of the
Federal courts, can calibrate it any way they want.
But when you are dealing with the core
function of the jury -- and matters of abatement were
never considered to be core functions of the jury -- I
think a whole range of cases starting with Slocum versus
New York Life --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you told
me that Congress could set a high level of burden on
factual issues, and that that wouldn't intrude upon the
Seventh Amendment.
MR. MILLER: I'm distinguishing, Mr. Chief
Justice, between the merits and the entry point.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are you saying that
Congress can not set a fact burden on the merits that is
different than preponderance of the evidence.
MR. MILLER: No. No. No. No. If Congress
wants to change preponderance to clear and convincing,
it can.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you would say that you
could have a beyond reasonable doubt standard that must
be met at the pleading level, but more likely than not
at the jury level?
MR. MILLER: No. That is something I
disagree with. If the substance of the law --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We want to know what the
rule is.
MR. MILLER: I'm not sure it's the rule.
It's what I would advocate. If the substance says
predominance, then to raise the pleading bar on what in
effect is a dispositive motion -- and I don't think it
makes any difference whether it's a JNOV, a directed
verdict, a summary judgment, motion for judgment on the
opening statement -- and you decided all of those cases.
And you protected what Justice Souter referred to in
Markman as the core function of the jury. You have
always said these procedures are okay, as long as it
does not call for the resolution of fact issues, because
that's the core function of the jury.
Now this Court is faced with, in effect,
coming back down that time line to the motion to
dismiss.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If I'm with you so
far, why would you suppose that Congress would create a
different standard on the motion to dismiss than they
meant to apply at the merits standard?
MR. MILLER: I don't think Congress would.
I do not believe Congress ever intended -- it's not in
the statute, it is not in the legislative history, it is
not in any case, Matsushita, Monsanto are unique
antitrust cases, and in both cases, the Court, if you
read the opinions fully, protected the jury function.
They said there was simply nothing beyond the assertions
standing alone when you have competitive and
anticompetitive conduct to protect substantive antitrust
law. That doesn't do it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then what was
Congress trying to do when they said strong inference?
It seems to me that if you think the standards have to
be the same at pleading and at proof, and Congress says
strong inference at pleading, it means you have to show
a strong inference at proof, and that's why there's no
Seventh Amendment problem.
MR. MILLER: What you have to show at proof
is preponderance.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Then it seems to me that
you have the meaning of strong inference and reasonable
inference.
MR. MILLER: Our standard, as proposed, and
we think --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You don't want to answer
yes or no there?
MR. MILLER: -- is reasonable jurors, who
are finders of fact, could find by a preponderance of
the evidence that the defendants acted with scienter.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So you're saying those
words, strong inference, mean essentially the same thing
as reasonable inference.
MR. MILLER: No. You can have lots of
reasonable inferences that don't meet a preponderance
notion.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's true, but imagine a
case where the plaintiff with tremendous candor sets
forth every bit of testimony that's going to be heard on
both sides.
And then you read that document and you
conclude this is the weakest case I've ever heard, but I
do think a reasonable juror could find for the
plaintiff.
And that would be the weak evidence
standard.
And lo and behold, that could be -- you
know, what do we do about that? Because using your do
you send it to a jury test, we could easily imagine
cases where that meets the weak evidence standard, the
weak inference and not the strong inference. And what
I'm driving at is, I don't see a way of avoiding this
Seventh Amendment problem.
MR. MILLER: If --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because they certainly
didn't intend the weak inference standard.
MR. MILLER: If you follow petitioners in
their attempt to deconstruct not simply Rule 8's
construction, but hundreds of years of what this Court
in Jones versus Bock referred to as usual procedural
practices which are not to be lightly departed from, the
historic notion is you look at the complaint and in a
curious way, you have blinders on. You look at the
complaint. You read it in the light favorable to the
pleader. You do not weigh. That is a jury function.
You do not look for exculpatory explanations.
JUSTICE ALITO: How can you assess the
strength of the inference that can be drawn from the
facts alleged in the complaint without considering all
the inferences that could be drawn from those facts? I
just don't understand that argument.
You see somebody -- let's say you saw
somebody today walking east on Pennsylvania Avenue in
the direction of Capitol Hill. Now you -- there's --
you could draw an inference that the person is coming to
the Supreme Court. And if there were no other building
in Washington, that would be a very strong inference.
But don't you also have to consider the inference that
the person is going to the Capitol, the person is going
to the Library of Congress, the person is going to some
other location up here? You have to consider all the
inferences that you can draw from the facts.
MR. MILLER: As the Seventh Circuit did, we
agree, you look at the totality of the complaint.
That's a given.
But there are contrary inferences that
undermine the strength of the plaintiff's inferences.
They weaken it. And they're -- they emanate from the
complaint.
There are other kinds of inferences, let's
call it nonculpability, that don't denigrate the strong
inference which let's assume hypothetically has been
established. They're just side-bar possibilities.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, let's take one
specific example that the petitioners did, and that is
this matter of the channel stuffing. They say here's a
notion, channel stuffing. It could mean goods were
shipped that nobody ever ordered, or it could mean
something different. It could mean discounting and
other incentives to get people to buy. So there's good
channel stuffing and bad channel stuffing, and it sounds
like good cholesterol, bad cholesterol; you can't tell
from the allegations that it's the bad stuffing that's
at issue.
MR. MILLER: The Seventh Circuit reached
that conclusion, I think, by looking at some of the
confidential sources which sort of indicated that there
was channel stuffing in the sense of pushing product out
which was coming back. The head of Verizon complained
about the channel stuffing, so there's reason to believe
that at least some of it is bad. Just enough.
Now, is that in and of itself determinative?
No. Again, I come back to the notion that what the
Seventh Circuit did is look at the 5500, look at the
6500, look at the earnings projections which proved
false, looked at back-dating, channel stuffing. Looked
at all of that and said okay, even if I treat channel
stuffing as weak, I have these other things. And as
Judge Lynch of the First Circuit said, each fact of
scienter is like a brush stroke.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Are you entitled to
consider the brush strokes that are not there as well as
the subsidiary brush strokes that are? In
Justice Alito's example, if the pleadings don't point
out that the Library of Congress and the Capitol are
also up on this hill, is the judge at the motions stage
entitled to consider that?
MR. MILLER: Obviously, if it's something
you can take judicial notice of, then yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. Then that is
engaging in something more than construing the pleadings
most favorably to the plaintiff.
MR. MILLER: But it's within the realm of
what courts have done for the longest of the time. They
look at documents attached. They look at judicial
notice.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What do you think about
that? There are at least some circumstances, then, in
which there this is kind of critical assessment function
that you concede must go on, rather than simply a piling
favorable inference onto favorable inference to see if
it gets to the strong points.
MR. MILLER: I repeat what I said a couple
of minutes ago, Justice Souter. If the negative
depletes the affirmative, if there's a correlation
between them, I can understand that. Maybe it
eliminates that fact. Maybe it reduces that fact.
But when we hear about motive, what does
motive and guidance reduction months after the false
statements have to do with whether the statements were
false, whether the 5500 was --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That is -- that is an
argument for the weight of considering motive rather
than the relevance of the motive consideration per se.
MR. MILLER: I think it is a tough line. I
think this is the kind of line district judges have to
draw. I think if you look at your own precedents like
Anderson versus Liberty Lobby and all of those jury
trial cases, you see the repetition of the notion that
judges do not balance inference chains on a matter going
to the core function of a jury.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But all of those
cases were before the PSLRA where Congress, it seems to
me, established a very different standard. They said
they have to support a strong inference.
MR. MILLER: A strong inference. Not a
conclusive inference.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Strong inference was
not the test that was being applied in Anderson, Liberty
Lobby, in any of those cases.
MR. MILLER: But can't -- but strong
inference, as Justice Ginsburg said much earlier, was
the standard not only in the Second Circuit but in the
First Circuit and in the Third Circuit.
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you think about the
approach -- because I have had some of these cases. And
I see -- I think words, words, words.
And what Congress said was strong inference,
and we're not going to get any further by looking for
some other words. So therefore, take strong inference.
The most helpful thing is take it, look at the
complaint, read it, and then say okay, this is a strong
inference. Or maybe we'd say it isn't. We read it, and
avoid all the other issues. What do you think about
that?
MR. MILLER: Live to fight another day?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. And then on appeal,
we would say, no, it's not a strong inference, or yes,
it is a strong inference.
I mean, I hope we're going to establish some
standards for how you go about determining whether
there's a strong inference or not.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I hope we're going to
recognize that Congress thought it was doing something.
Your argument so far, Professor, doesn't indicate
that Congress --
MR. MILLER: Excuse me.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You indicated that the --
you know, the plaintiff had to do all this
investigation. The whole point of this was that the
defendants were being disadvantaged.
MR. MILLER: Look at the statute in its
entirety. This isn't a statute that just deals with
pleading scienter. Look at the provisions dealing with
the selection of lead representative, which has produced
this incredible shift from '95 to public institutions,
pensions and labor unions. They don't bring frivolous
cases. Look at the control that statute gives over
selection of them with notice provisions to make sure
you've got the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How does that change
how we should read strong inference in the statute? Are
you saying don't worry whether it's a strong inference
or not because labor unions are bringing the cases and
they're not going to bring a frivolous case? No.
Congress said there has to be a strong inference. And
what concerns me is that the very standard that the
Seventh Circuit articulated said simply could a
reasonable person infer. The notion of strong inference
isn't in that standard at all.
MR. MILLER: The notion of strong inference
starting with the Second Circuit doctrine, as used in
many other circuits, was actually a much lower standard
than what we are recommending.
If I believe -- if I think back at
Greenstone, it was reason to believe, or tends to
believe, or circumstantial evidence in Greenstone and in
Burlington Coat.
Under our standard of preponderance, the
ability to find preponderance, you are elevated. You
are also elevated by the preceding subdivision which
requires a level of particularization, never known in
Federal Rule --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Miller, going back
just to the word strong, forgetting the
particularization from it, do you think you can
categorize the strength in percentage terms? They have
to be more than 50 percent? More than probable cause?
We're talking all abstractly here and I find
it easier to think when I think about numbers.
MR. MILLER: I have -- forgive me. I
haven't seen a judicial opinion that says at the 33 and
one-third percentage of probability, I've got to give it
to the jury, because that jury might file for my --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think it's 66 and
two-thirds. I think that is --
(Laughter.)
MR. MILLER: Is that because you never met a
plaintiff you really liked?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE STEVENS: At least we know that in
the probable world --
MR. MILLER: I took a liberty there with the
Justice. I don't think you can ascribe a percentage to
it. I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I think more likely
than not, most people think of 49, 50 percent. Can you
tell us whether strong inference is stronger than more
likely than not?
MR. MILLER: I do not believe it is. I
think --
I think strong inference -- if we're doing
the numbers game -- may actually be 40 percent. If a
district judge is looking, again, I say at the entirety
of discounts --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me just reclaim the
question. Is it stronger or weaker than probable cause
in a criminal context?
MR. MILLER: Oh, I would hope it's stronger.
I would hope it's higher than probable cause.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about clear and
convincing? Is it below clear -- I mean, they are the
only two standards I actually understand. Without
picking a number out of air, is preponderance, I think I
can figure that out. And I guess I can figure out
beyond a reasonable doubt. But other than those, when
you talking about strong, when you talk about clear and
convincing, I have no idea what those things mean.
Do you?
MR. MILLER: And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't think they mean
anything?
MR. MILLER: No, I think they mean what a
district judge honoring his Article III commission
concludes after an intensive evaluation of the entirety
of the complaint, looking for that strong inference,
putting on his sort of motion to dismiss 12(b)(6) hat,
says okay --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just okay?
MR. MILLER: No, I did not mean that. Don't
take me literally on that. For heavens sakes, I'm from
Brooklyn. I'm very colloquial. I'm very sorry about
that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me write that down. We
should not take you literally. All right.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay, you two are
even now.
(Laughter.)
MR. MILLER: Understand, you keep asking,
quite properly obviously, how does strong inference
change anything?
The test we have proposed and the test I
believe the Seventh Circuit applied is not the classic
12(b)(6) have you stated a claim, because we all know at
least traditionally, under notice pleading, you can
march through that.
This test, if you follow that time line
backward, is in effect asking that district judge to
make a decision on looking at the totality of this
complaint, is this case trial worthy? It's a curious
thing. I don't envy district judges who have to do
this.
Is it trial worthy? Why would Congress say,
if a district judge is willing to say under the classic
test, I think it's trial worthy, there's no reason to
believe that Congress wanted to cut that case off.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Trial worthy under
preponderance standard or trial worthy under the strong
inference standard?
MR. MILLER: Oh, I think he is becoming
slightly schizoid, he is saying, I'm looking at strong
inference. I'm looking at the motion to dismiss
structure as it's been, the usual procedure, 200 years,
and I have to make a judgment because Congress was
pushing here. There's no doubt about it.
I have to make a decision on the basis of
what I've got, which is virtually nothing -- let's face
that -- I think -- I think if these allegations are
proven, it is certainly trial worthy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It sounds to me like --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It's not trial worthy, but
rather discovery worthy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry.
Justice Stevens, say it again.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I think the question is
not whether it's trial worthy, it's whether it's worthy
for discovery. That's really what's at issue in this.
MR. MILLER: Well, the realities out there
are they built a wall. They put in all of these
procedural protections and they said no discovery until
you climb the wall. Now what kind of a wall was it?
Was it a Dutch dike or the Berlin Wall? If you look at
that statute, contrary to what Mr. Phillips urges, there
are multiple policies expressed in that statute, one of
which is, private cases are good. Let's just get the
right people to run those private cases. Let's control
them. Let's, let's have a greater threshold, but let's
not throw the baby out with the bath water. Because
everybody seems to agree private cases help.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I want, I want to be fair.
I interpreted your argument -- and please tell me if
this is incorrect -- as indicating that if I think
strong inference is greater, more onerous than more
likely than not, at the pleading stage, I then also have
to say this is the instruction that must be given to the
jury? In order to avoid the, the discontinuity between
the pleading stage and what --
MR. MILLER: The way you state it, Justice,
is something very hard for me to respond to. Congress
did not change the persuasiveness, the proof burden. If
you go through the statute, you will see spots where
they did. Congress knew how to change proof standards.
Congress knew how to change Federal rules.
Congress did not change the proof in private
actions. Congress did not change all of the background
procedure like the background procedure in Jones and --
it is just not there yet. Congress did change a couple
of Federal rules explicitly.
So I, I cannot comprehend how, if the case
reached the jury, you would have to charge above
predominance. And I, I think we've got a stone rolling
downhill to the dismissal point, which is why we have
urged in the brief and why the Seventh Circuit was
concerned as was the Sixth about this jury trial
implication --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, and so I think we
have to reach it, because it can't possibly be you would
instruct the jury you need a strong inference, and it
couldn't possibly be that a predominance standard if
imported into the pleading would always mean a strong
inference. You see, that's -- that's the dilemma. And
I don't see how to remain true to the words of the
statute which are strong inference, without actually
producing a dichotomy. And so either Congress can do it
or it can't, and -- and -- and that's -- and we could
fudge it by just, you know, avoiding it at this moment.
But I don't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Miller, suppose
Congress set up a entirely separate cause of action.
It's caused -- it's called a discovery cause of action,
okay? And it sets forth as the condition for pursuing
that cause of action a standard that your, your
allegation has to be indeed clear and convincing.
Okay?
And then if you win that, you can take
whatever you get out of the discovery and bring a
lawsuit. Would that be unconstitutional?
MR. MILLER: Why do I feel wind whipping
past my ears as I go through a trap door?
(Laughter.)
MR. MILLER: Ironically, ironically, I think
I have to say if Congress, leaving to one side
justiciability problems with the discovery cause of
action, if Congress created a discovery cause of action
it could ascribe to it whatever incidents it wanted
to --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Surely it could prohibit
discovery altogether which it did before they adopt in
1938.
MR. MILLER: That is correct. And I don't
think anybody seriously argues that discovery is a
constitutional right.
The jury trial implications of this new
cause of action are interesting. This Court has
protected post-1791 statutory claims and their right to
jury trial, but you're positing one that wasn't known in
1791, and maybe it could be done without a jury. That's
really a hypothetical.
THE COURT: Thank you, Mr. Miller.
Mr. Phillips, you have four minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS,
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I have to confess I'm -- I'm slightly
perplexed by exactly what the Respondent's position is
in this case so I'm inclined to kind of go back to the
core points that have been raised by the questions from
-- from the Court. And in the first instance, it seems
to me quite clear that the Seventh Circuit did not apply
the strong inference standard. If -- you can compare
the language from the First Circuit circuit that
specifically says it has to be reasonable and strong,
strong has completely fallen out here. I don't see any
way to read it the other way.
I think in response to Justice Breyer's
question, which is how do, how should you write the
opinion, I think the meaningful way to write the opinion
is to be respectful of Justice Scalia's desire to
provide guidance. So I do think you should say, you
have to, as Justice Alito said, review the entirety of
the document and -- and infer both positively and
negatively as you go forward. We know that has to be
true. Almost every court that's dealt with these issues
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then you're doing
away with reading the allegations in the light most
favorable to the plaintiff.
MR. PHILLIPS: Absolutely. Absolutely,
Justice Ginsburg. There's no question that that's --
that that's what Congress had to have meant under these
circumstances. And the best example of that is the CEO
who sells securities during the time period of the class
action. There are dozens of cases in which that
happens. Does it create an inference of scienter? It
might, because it's quite possible that he sold and --
he lied about the stock in order to keep the price up to
sell. It is also possible that he sells only about 1
percent of the stock --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Mr. Phillips, you
don't look at these things one at a time. You look at
them altogether.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, that is --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is the statute all you
had?
MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Ginsburg, I couldn't
disagree with you more about that. That is precisely
what Congress says when -- when it says with
particularity. And when Congress says you have to look
at each defendant. You cannot do --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It says you must plead
the facts with particularity.
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But when one judges the
adequacy of the complaint, one looks at all the facts
pleaded with particularity, not just one.
MR. PHILLIPS: But the strong inference of
scienter is not pled on a group basis. It has to be
pled with respect to each individual defendant. So it's
quite convenient --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, I think that this
case was a good example. There were two defendants and
the court of appeals --
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, there were a lot more
than that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, to take the two
that were at issue in this opinion. The court of
appeals said the CEO, yeah, there's enough there to get
over that threshold. The other guy, no, there wasn't.
So it's not that she's saying what you find
for one, you find for all. She is going at it defendant
by defendant.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I -- I -- I mean, I was
commenting primarily on Professor Miller's decision to
just sort of sweep everything in and say look, back in
1999 and 2000 when the Seventh Circuit itself
specifically said that the knowledge, for instance, of
the 5500 decline didn't happen until March of 2001. So
I was just saying you can't start sweeping everything
in.
But -- and it is true, the court
distinguished between those two individuals; but the
bottom line remains the same. You have to analyze them,
each. And you have to take into account contending
inferences. You have to construe ambiguity contrary
to the plaintiff sometimes --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you do with a
report that you know exists because you had one of these
26 confidential people tell you? But you haven't seen
the report, so you don't have the date on it? And you
won't know that date unless you have access to
discovery. Do you have to assume the date is later
rather than sooner?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think you better make an
allegation with particularity that that date was at a
time when the individual would know that the -- that the
information that he was conveying was -- was wrong. I
don't see how you can infer strongly --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- if the
plaintiff --
MR. PHILLIPS: -- scienter otherwise.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The plaintiff can't know
for sure without seeing the document with a date on it.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the plaintiff can ask
the confidential informant as much as, as he wants about
the information; and if he can't come up with it, that's
the price you pay. That was exactly what Congress said,
is if you cannot make those particular allegations, then
you're out of luck. And it's not as though they give
you one shot for this.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Congress -- Congress used
words, "strong inference." Those words are not
self-defining. One can think of several ways, in fact
the courts of appeals did think of several ways. Why
should we pick your way as opposed to the other ways one
might define them?
MR. PHILLIPS: I could be flip to say it's
the right way. But I think the -- I mean the answer to
the, the answer to why to choose our approach is because
it is consistent with Matsushita and Monsanto and it
will allow, Justice Breyer, to apply it in an
individualized way, in a fashion that will give guidance
to the lower courts. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Phillips. The case is submitted.
[Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.]
advocate 33:12 22:16 51:9 55:20 37:20 54:16
affidavit 7:16 4:11 5:6,15,19 21:24 25:25 22:5
56:1 ago 39:22 30:6,9,14 41:4 55:18 authority 4:9
31:6 ah 6:16 amicus 1:20 2:7 appropriate 5:9 Avenue 37:1
air 45:2 7:11 8:13 17:8 6:6 25:19 avoid 4:14 23:8
24:18 51:20 analyzed 7:5 argue 9:15 49:15
allegation 5:1 40:22 arguing 10:2,3 55:25
15:3 15:12 19:25 argument 1:13 B
24:23,25 28:8 55:17,18 3:7 4:1,5 9:7,8 back 15:25
allegations 5:2 34:13 36:24 40:6 33:24 38:12,16
20:25 21:2,18 34:13 51:1 53:24
20:21 38:6 47:7 52:1 appeal 41:15 Article 45:12 backward 46:12
23:19 55:7 appeals 3:21 articulate 30:10 back-dating
16:11 22:25 24:21 17:20,23 25:17 25:17 42:21 bad 38:4,5,6,14
35:8 30:24 25:21,24,24 articulation balance 17:3
36:22 APPEARAN... 50:9 bar 33:13
52:8 alleges 9:1 1:15 aside 5:13 19:12 based 15:13
24:25 applicable 25:17 asking 4:13 5:9 basic 11:22
19:17,25 allowing 8:15 applied 3:24 46:3,12 basis 15:10 47:5
ambiguities 46:7 assessment beginning 31:22
17:8 27:8 build 16:13 40:12,16,23 cholesterol 38:5 colloquial 45:20
building 16:13 41:4 42:11,17 38:5 come 6:13 25:25
18:5,7,9 burden 8:2,4 categorically circuit 6:14,16 comes 14:25
19:17 18:17 30:18 3:13 6:17,18,23,23 comfortable 7:3
24:5,10 32:3,4,17,23 categorize 43:15 6:24 27:11,12 coming 33:24
26:17 48:14 cause 7:16 43:16 29:10,22 30:7 37:3 38:12
28:21 Burlington 43:6 44:20,23 49:18 37:11 38:8,17 commenting
34:6 business 27:15 49:19,21 50:7 38:22 41:1,2,2 53:23
43:3,4,5 27:15 50:8,18 42:21,25 46:7 commission
46:7,20 buy 38:3 caused 8:15 49:2 51:9,11 45:12
central 16:24 circuits 21:9 32:8
52:6 calibrate 32:10 28:1,11 29:17 circumstances company 13:20
called 49:19 CEOs 13:19 circumstantial 15:19 16:17
34:11 candor 35:16 certainly 11:6 citizen's 7:23 14:12
canon 24:4 11:10 23:10,14 Citytrust 7:4 compare 51:10
case 3:4,21 4:12 change 11:22 31:21,21,23 7:5,6 9:2,3
4:14,21,22 5:7 21:7,8 33:1 46:8 10:10 20:8,9
26:10 7:5,6,21,22 8:7 42:14 46:5 claimed 15:14 20:16 21:5
27:13 9:21,22 11:4 48:14,16,17,18 claims 5:22 22:16,24 23:20
29:9 11:12 14:23 48:19,21 50:19 25:13 27:14
32:4 16:25 17:19 changed 30:4 class 52:7 28:16 36:15,17
36:8 18:6 20:14,14 changes 20:6 classic 46:7,18 36:22 37:12,17
49:5 22:20,21 23:4 channel 37:24 clear 5:8 8:18 41:10 45:14
24:3 25:14,16 37:25 38:4,4 9:8 11:16 18:4 46:14 53:4
31:1,2,10 34:8 Chief 3:3,9 17:4 33:1 44:24,25 51:13
55:24,25 32:20,22 34:1 9:17 12:19 concern 19:1
34:9,9 36:3 51:3 55:23 codified 25:4 12:14 24:18,20
49:3 Congress's 11:2 core 32:11,13 curb 3:11 9:18 22:1,18
42:20 consider 21:25 51:7 17:8 definition 6:19
39:5 correct 23:15 current 13:9 delayed 15:7,10
38:9 considered 50:14 cuts 31:11 delivered 15:23
36:22 40:6 costs 17:14 D 3:1 28:18 29:12
22:1 Constitution 20:14 55:2 demonstrated
34:13 5:16 court 1:1,13 day 6:4 9:6 10:9 8:2
28:3,11 19:15 23:9,16 10:9 11:1,4,11 28:14 Department
38:10 23:17,23,24 12:14 16:7 dealing 4:9 1:19
55:4 24:3,5 31:19 17:11,20,23 32:11 42:7 depletes 39:23
4:9 6:5,16 construction 19:25 21:25 dealt 51:23 designed 27:21
8:16,20 36:12 22:16 23:19 deceive 16:11 desire 51:18
10:21 construe 6:12 24:3,7 25:16 December 27:16 detail 14:25
12:3,6 20:8 54:9 25:20,20,23,24 decide 11:12 determination
18:15 construed 20:16 26:5,6,8,14,17 23:12 31:5 23:18
construing 39:9 27:10,23 30:22 decided 33:17 determinative
24:17,20 contending 54:8 31:17,20,24 decision 6:14,16 38:15
25:3 context 14:20 33:23 34:9 6:17 26:1,5,17 determine 19:5
44:21 36:12 37:4 46:13 47:5 determining
31:3 contradiction 50:18,23 51:8 53:23 41:19
22:9 51:23 53:12,16 decisively 3:11 dichotomy
34:2,5,6 contrary 15:16 54:5 declared 3:16 49:13
37:8 31:2 37:14 courts 21:3 25:6 decline 28:19 differ 31:4
40:16 47:22 54:9 26:16 32:10 54:2 difference 9:20
control 32:9 39:12 55:13,22 declining 22:23 10:8 31:15
46:17,20 42:11 47:25 Court's 11:13 deconstruct 33:15
48:13,16 convenient 53:9 create 21:21 36:11 different 5:22
conversations 34:2 52:9 defeat 9:1,5 6:20 19:14
50:6 14:13 created 50:8 defendant 3:18 26:1 32:24
52:5,22 conveying 54:21 creating 11:8 18:19 52:24 34:3 38:2
55:6,10 convincing criminal 8:7 53:8,20,21 40:17
11:17 30:12 44:21 defendants 35:8 difficult 10:22
45:6 49:22 crystal 24:19 defendant's dilemma 49:10
draw 4:13 37:3 enormous 12:8 exclude 9:10 41:23
52:21 drawn 17:23 entirety 27:14 excluding 10:11 favor 10:12 21:6
36:21,23 45:13 51:20 exculpatory favorable 20:9
dropped 29:14 39:5 Excuse 41:25 21:18 22:5
drying 28:18 31:3,7,8,9 32:5 existed 30:25 52:2
47:11 D.C 1:9,16,19 equally 16:5 explanations Federal 31:17
49:19 equate 10:22 5:13 9:10 22:1 31:20,24 32:10
50:7,8 E equivalent 4:3 36:19 43:11 48:17,22
54:16 E 2:1 3:1,1 11:16 explicitly 48:22 feel 50:2
33:25 40:25 erred 17:20 extends 5:6 fight 41:14
45:15 early 28:20 error 3:20 extensive 27:19 figure 45:3,3
29:13,14 ESQ 1:16,18,22 extent 5:5 19:3 figures 14:5
33:14 easier 43:18 41:18 F 35:7,21 43:8
26:23 30:19 et 1:3,7 32:8 27:17 29:11 fine 30:25
46:12 evaluation 35:7 38:22 first 9:15 18:4
45:12 effort 17:16 events 13:21 facts 3:17 8:25 38:22 41:2
efforts 29:8 16:1 9:2,4 14:8 51:8,11
19:22 26:22 evidence 4:17 19:5 20:20 flip 55:16
55:2 elevated 43:8,9 35:8,23 36:3 53:1,4 36:10 46:11
eliminates 39:25 evidentiary 5:3 fair 11:15 48:4 following 19:10
51:25 enactment 21:9 55:6 false 26:24 force 4:6 5:12
49:20 20:11 held 4:18,19 incidents 50:9 45:14 46:4,23
48:15 50:3 12:9 18:17,18 including 17:18 55:11
30:10 31:24 hill 37:2 39:4 incorrect 48:6 35:13 36:23
34:10 43:12 53:20 34:7 38:10 42:1 information
39:17 good 28:25 holding 17:20 indicating 48:6 13:16 27:19
31:23 38:3,5 holistic 27:14 individual 53:8 54:21 55:5
37:25 Honor 4:19 55:21 inside 14:24
41:7 government 8:8 hope 41:18,21 Industries 8:13 insofar 4:21
51:1 43:5 humorous 29:6 inference 3:18 institutions 42:9
30:21 guidance 26:15 50:22 10:16,19,24 instruction 4:4
11:15 55:21 37:20 16:10 17:19,22 intend 36:9
20:4,13 guy 53:18 18:12,14 19:6 intended 3:23
26:4 I 20:1,11 21:15 8:21 34:6
40:25 H idea 45:6 21:21,25 22:4 intensive 45:13
52:4,14 hands 14:14 III 45:12 22:7,12 25:1,4 intent 11:2
28:5 imagine 35:15 25:9,11,12 18:12 24:7
happen 54:2 36:2 28:2 30:3 26:22,24
55:1 happens 52:9 implausible 34:16,19,20,25 interest 13:20
hard 48:13 16:11 35:1,10,11 interesting
28:17 19:4,6 30:14 46:21 47:9,10 28:9 54:1 limited 20:13
20:11 34:10 36:2,18 49:17 50:11 50:20 46:11 54:7
49:3,7 50:17 52:18,20,25 literally 45:19
42:3 7:11,20,21 8:4 50:7 51:11 11:24
24:3 11:15,25 12:5 K 1:18 2:6 17:7 46:2 50:4 lo 35:25
38:7 12:21 13:2,8 KANNON 1:18 law 6:11 21:8,8 Lobby 40:11,23
53:16 13:12,22,25 2:6 17:7 30:2,11 32:8 location 37:9
33:21 15:22,24 16:12 Kennedy 3:25 laws 3:15 17:14 logically 12:11
51:23 16:19,20 17:4 4:15,20 8:4,17 lawsuit 50:1 long 15:18,20,25
18:1 12:21 13:2,8 lawyers 5:2 16:2,15 33:20
24:12,18 25:7 48:4 37:20,22 47:6 38:18 39:13,13
38:22 26:10,14,19,24 39:17 40:9 48:1,1 42:5,7,11
44:17 27:4,9,13,25 47:20 51:6 level 10:15,18 47:21 52:15,15
46:12,18 28:7,15,24 kinds 37:18 21:14 22:12 52:23 53:24
53:3 30:16,20 31:15 14:1,1,2,3 43:10 38:19,19
18:2 32:21,22 33:3 28:20,23 48:16 44:6 41:7 44:17
19:3,15 33:9,18 34:1 48:17 Library 37:8 45:14 46:13,25
33:16,16 34:15,24 35:4 know 4:1 5:24 39:3 47:1
35:9,15 36:8 6:1 7:19 12:10 lied 52:11 looks 27:24 53:4
43:20 38:24 39:2,8 33:9 36:1 42:2 light 11:22 20:9 lots 35:12
41:3,15,21 54:12,15,20 lightly 36:14 luck 55:8
Miller 1:22 2:9 motives 8:9 39:6 46:4 53:1,5 54:19
31:6 N Oh 8:6 16:20 particularly
46:10 32:2,6,20,25 N 2:1,1 3:1 44:22 46:24 14:9
33:7,11 34:5 nature 28:13 okay 33:20 Parts 29:13
10:5,17 40:8,19,24 needn't 11:2,11 onerous 48:7 37:1
11:3 41:14,25 42:5 needs 18:5 19:17 one-third 43:21 pensions 42:10
55:19 42:24 43:12,19 19:25 opening 33:17 people 28:5
19:4 45:8,11,18 39:22 opinion 25:8,14 32:1 38:3
37:24 46:3,24 47:17 negatively 51:22 43:20 51:17,17 44:10 47:25
56:1 48:12 49:17 never 5:5 16:8 53:16 54:13
mind 3:19 9:17 nevertheless oral 1:12 2:2,5,8 7:13,14,14 8:5
21:17 21:21 24:24,25 new 12:24 32:15 order 11:3,11 44:10,16 52:13
35:10 25:2 50:17 20:20 21:21 percentage
38:1,2 minutes 4:1 nonculpability 48:10 52:11 43:15,21 44:7
44:25 39:22 50:24 37:19 ordered 29:14 percentages
misinterpreted normal 29:25 38:1 7:12,20
53:22 17:23 Notebaert 14:11 ordinary 20:14 period 15:25
misrepresenting 16:3,8 27:16 ought 9:16 52:7
27:2 27:25 39:7,14 overrule 30:19 perplexed 51:5
25:11 12:23 notion 16:2 29:5 31:21 37:3,7,7,8
moment 49:15 35:14 36:15 42:22
9:9 34:8 55:19 number 6:24 page 2:2 3:16 48:14
morning 3:4 45:2 papers 7:24 29:24
33:14,16,24 particular 4:12 1:17,21 2:4,7
45:15 O 5:14 9:21 11:4 2:13 3:8 17:9
32:21,23 47:1 55:7 36:10 37:23
obstacles 29:6
3:6,7,9 pleading 3:14 8:16 21:23 procedural 20:18 26:15
5:18 4:2 8:23 9:11 52:21 36:13 47:19 51:19
7:8,10 11:16 12:15 predominance procedure 47:2 provided 13:16
8:6,12 17:18 18:3,13 33:13 48:25 48:20,20 provisions 42:7
9:6 10:7 18:15 19:14 49:8 procedures 42:12
11:19 20:3,4 23:6 preexisting 21:7 33:20 PSLRA 30:1
13:1,5 24:19 33:5,13 prefer 11:1 proceed 6:6 40:16
34:18,19 42:7 preponderance 31:12 public 42:9
15:9 46:9 48:8,11 4:17 32:24 process 22:4 pulse 14:14
16:18 49:9 33:1 34:23 produced 15:14 16:17
17:5 pleadings 4:10 35:7,13 43:7,8 42:8 pursuant 30:14
47:22 5:6 6:7 24:9 45:2 46:22 producing 49:13 pursuing 49:20
51:1,3 39:2,9 present 18:7,10 product 14:15 pushing 38:11
pleas 32:7 presenting 9:22 14:20 22:23 47:4
please 3:10 presumptively 29:18 38:11 put 21:3 32:7
55:3 17:11 27:10 8:9 production 47:18
48:5 previously 15:5 14:15 puts 11:20
10:12 policies 47:23 7:24 8:10,11 14:16 38:18 30:23 31:9,9
18:18 policy 6:7 23:8 8:15 9:18 proof 4:23 12:16 quarter 27:22
positing 50:20 11:23 17:12 12:18 18:13,22 29:15
position 9:14 47:24,25 48:3 30:18 34:18,20 question 4:8
22:6,15 18:1 51:5 48:18 34:22 48:14,16 5:19 6:5,8 7:9
positive 10:10 probabilistic 48:18 15:11 18:1,6
35:16,22 positively 51:21 23:18 properly 46:4 19:17,19,23
42:2 possibilities probability 18:9 proposed 31:13 20:1 23:4
52:2 37:21 43:21 35:2 46:6 26:11 44:20
55:1 possibility 22:17 probable 7:16 propositions 47:14 51:16
possible 22:1 11:18 43:16 30:5 52:4
24:20 possibly 49:6,8 probably 9:15 34:13 quite 5:8 6:20
37:15 potential 11:5 problem 6:4,22 34:10 50:19 46:4 51:9
power 6:5 16:6 17:16 47:19
pre 24:8 23:17,23 24:13 30:12 31:2 R 1:22 2:9 3:1
40:10 36:6 31:1 38:18 raise 32:2,9
51:7 record 4:14 18:14,16 20:18 34:15 40:15,21 Scalia's 51:18
32:6 33:18 43:10 routinely 13:15 52:9 53:7
21:2,12 17:16,24 20:21 reserve 17:3 20:10,15,15,17 search 7:16
29:23 21:10 23:19 resolution 33:21 21:1,12,23 Second 6:14,15
35:19 regard 21:8 resolve 12:16 31:7 33:10,11 6:17,18,20,22
41:10,11 26:22 resolving 23:12 36:11 43:11 6:23,24 41:1
51:14 regarding 19:1 respect 15:6 rules 48:17,22 42:25
52:1 9:17 respond 48:13 runs 15:25 11:23 17:14
32:1 remaining 50:25 51:5 sakes 45:19 41:5 48:15
47:16 remains 21:23 responding 8:16 sales 13:6 14:14 49:10,11 51:13
54:7 response 27:13 satisfy 17:21 54:22
23:16 remember revealing 16:3 saying 9:2 11:10 seen 43:20 54:13
38:13 14:22 revenue 28:18 13:22,25 14:1 selection 42:8,12
46:19 removed 5:4 reverse 11:3 14:2 22:10 self 13:19
25:1,4 repetition 40:12 review 51:20 31:16 32:22 self-defining
33:4 reply 11:21 right 4:11 13:1 35:9 42:16 55:12
35:6,11 report 12:23 15:9 18:24 46:25 53:19 sell 52:12
42:22 13:6 14:21 27:1,11 29:23 54:3 selling 27:18
51:12 15:1,15,15 41:15 45:23 says 14:10,21 sells 52:7,12
51:1 reports 13:3 Rights 1:6 3:5 24:14 27:17 sense 12:3 13:18
representative 18:18 19:5 45:16 51:12 separate 49:18
required 3:19 road 11:17 23:2,15,22 32:17,23 49:18
21:22 23:18 17:4,25 27:4 41:15 43:23 Seventh 4:5,10
11:22 17:19,21 18:12 32:16,22 34:1 49:17 18:8,10 23:7
24:12 46:25 51:4 4:23 5:1 7:2,22 34:7 42:5,6,11 49:7,9,12
29:10 Slocum 32:14 8:23,24 9:15 42:15 47:22,23 51:10,12,13
30:6,7,9 sold 15:11 52:10 10:23,24 11:7 48:15 49:12 53:6 55:11
32:19 solely 19:1 11:17 12:7,7 52:18 stronger 5:23
36:6 Solicitor 1:18 12:11,15,16,18 statutes 3:23 7:15,19 10:2
38:8,17 somebody 36:25 18:2,3 20:2 statutory 50:19 10:20 44:11,20
46:7 37:1 21:25 23:5 stayed 14:11 44:22
51:9 sooner 54:17 24:8,9 25:5,17 step 3:13 strongly 54:22
sorry 7:10 45:20 25:21,25 26:4 Stevens 7:8,11 structure 47:2
2:6 17:6 sort 11:22 13:6 29:24,25 30:4 19:18,22 34:24 stuffing 37:24
18:4,24 18:7 38:10 30:10,15 33:4 35:4,9 43:12 37:25 38:4,4,6
20:12 45:15 53:24 34:3,4 35:2,24 44:4,19 47:10 38:11,13,19,21
22:14 sounds 38:4 36:3,9 40:17 47:13,14 50:11 subdivision 43:9
24:2 47:9 41:1 42:20,23 stock 52:11,13 submission 4:20
25:15 sources 27:19 43:1,7 46:22 stone 48:25 18:23
28:4,12 29:12 46:23 49:8,21 strategic 29:5 submitted 55:24
38:10 51:10 strength 9:23 56:1
19:20 10:17 21:11,16 6:25 9:9 19:13 36:21 37:15 21:20 39:1
38:24 39:8,15 31:13 34:17 strikes 16:11 33:12
so-called 32:7 48:16 stroke 38:23 17:14 24:4
14:17 28:8 42:25 6:12,19 7:1,13 sufficient 8:25
specifically 17:22 21:21 10:16,23 11:7 sufficiently 24:4
34:19,22 specificity 16:25 22:5 46:8 20:1,11 21:15 suits 8:10
17:21 18:2,3,13,13 11:8 17:8 40:18,19,21,24 support 40:18
21:11,20 18:15,22 19:3 31:14 41:6,8,10,16 supporting 1:21
36:11 19:14,15,15 stating 5:22 41:17,20 42:15 2:7 9:3 17:9
42:21 20:3,5 23:6 status 13:9,21 42:16,19,22,24 21:14
41:9 46:15 17:3 23:1 28:6 ultimate 10:4 9:14 12:22
38:21 45:6 46:11 52:7,15 ultimately 21:22 21:24 23:15
33:11 think 4:7,9,12 Titan 14:20 50:1 27:14
55:2 5:4,7,8 6:3,4,7 22:20 underlying views 24:3
7:18,25 9:6,14 told 12:12 32:16 undermine
19:9,13 tough 40:8 45:1 46:3 want 23:25
10:13 27:23 28:10,11 translate 7:20 unions 42:10,17 wanted 16:15
37:22 28:20 29:8,10 trap 50:3 unique 34:8 46:20 50:9
41:8,9 31:6 32:14 treat 38:20 United 1:1,13,20 wants 33:1 55:4
49:24 33:14 34:5,17 tremendous 11:8 17:8 warrant 7:16
54:8 35:3,21 38:9 35:16 31:14 Washington 1:9
16:1 41:12 43:3,14 46:14,17,19,21 urged 49:2 50:20 53:18
43:17 43:18,18,23,24 46:22 47:8,10 urges 47:22 water 12:20
44:7,8,9,10,14 47:15 49:3 use 7:25 12:12 18:14 48:2
38:5 47:7,7,14 48:6 trigger 24:4 usual 23:8 36:13 11:8,23 12:16
48:5 48:25 49:5 true 6:2,22 47:2 15:25 17:1
50:5,15 51:15 23:20 35:15 usually 23:23 25:14,16 26:9
20:2,24 Third 41:2 trying 7:6 9:11 vacated 26:18 ways 12:1 25:8
43:15 thought 15:4 12:4,6 34:16 validly 31:2 55:12,13,14
three 25:10 two 5:22 11:6 venue 32:8 36:4,9 38:21
27:4 throw 12:18 45:1,25 53:11 Verizon 29:14 weakest 35:20
51:3 48:2 53:15 54:6 29:15 38:12 Wednesday
ticks 8:14 two-thirds versus 3:4 7:3 1:10
Y
9:11 10:9 53:17 30 7:14
14:19 year 15:5,10 33 43:20
28:6 years 36:12 47:2
41:7,18 York 32:15 4
43:17 40 44:16
28:21 50 7:13 8:4
43:13 100 6:21 27:15 28:6,18
25:10 11:03 55:25 40:4 54:2
41:5,5,5 12(b)(6) 5:19
49:11 20:7 45:15 6
46:8 60 7:14
25:14 1791 50:21 14:22 15:1,7
1938 31:8 50:13 15:11,18 27:15
1999 16:22
2 8's 36:11
2 3:16
20 4:1 9
2000 16:1 27:16
25:8 53:25
