IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MICHAEL A. WATSON, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-571
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 9, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10: 05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
KARL J. KOCH, ESQ., Baton Rouge, La.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
DEANNE E. MAYNARD, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KARL J. KOCH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
DEANNE E. MAYNARD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
KARL J. KOCH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 49
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 06-571, Watson v. United
States.
Mr. Koch.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KARL J. KOCH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KOCH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Mr. Watson's receipt of a firearm in
exchange for drugs does not constitute the use of that
firearm as the word "use" is employed by 18 U.S.C.
Section 924(c)(1) for two principal reasons. First,
applying the plain and ordinary meaning of the word
"use," the receipt of a thing is not the use of that
thing. There is no grammatically proper way to say that
someone uses a firearm when all that person does is
receive it.
Second, treating receipt as use under the
statute conflicts with this Court's decision in Bailey
v. United States, which held that use requires active
employment. And I'll address those two points in turn.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you address first
whether receipt of the gun constitutes possession of the
gun?
MR. KOCH: Yes, ma'am. I believe receipt
does constitute possession. However, of course,
possession standing alone under this Court's decision in
Bailey does not constitute use.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But under the statute as
amended, possession is also indictable.
MR. KOCH: Possession in furtherance of the
offense is -- is -- would be indictable. That -- that
was not charged in this particular case. And I would
suggest that the -- that the circumstances of this case
might not call that into -- into play simply because his
possession really was -- was incidental, and it was
following the conclusion of the drug transaction.
So I think -- I question whether the
possession in furtherance would necessarily apply here.
Of course, it was not charged.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm not sure.
I have the same question as Justice Ginsburg. It seems
to me, absent some precedents which narrows this
definition, that that would have been the way to charge
your client. That's not what was charged; that's not
the indictment; that's not what you're arguing. So I
guess the question is more appropriate for the
government.
But, if, following Justice Ginsburg's
question, this covers it, and it seems to me that it
does, then we're not arguing about very much.
MR. KOCH: I understand, Your Honor. My
only point, again, would be, that recognizing that "in
furtherance," at least by the authors of that language,
would suggest it to mean something more than "in
relation to,." I think the question could legitimately
be asked in a -- in a transaction like this, where the
possession basically is what he was attempting to
achieve and did, in fact, achieve, but after the -- at
the end transaction.
I don't -- I can't answer whether or not,
ultimately, that would be -- deemed to be in furtherance
or not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Koch, let's say
that the parties to the transaction are concerned about
avoiding exposure under the money-laundering statute,
and so they got together and said: All right, we are
going to have this deal. What can we use besides money?
And they say: Well, let's use guns, or let's use a gun.
And the seller of the drugs says: Okay. I'm willing to
use that.
Isn't he using the gun in furtherance of the
transaction?
MR. KOCH: I don't believe that the -- that,
given what the -- what this Court has said in Bailey,
that that would constitute active employment still. The
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's being actively
employed as the consideration in the sale.
MR. KOCH: However, the -- from the
standpoint --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not being shot,
but it's still being employed.
MR. KOCH: Yes, sir. From the standpoint of
the -- of the seller -- from the standpoint of the drug
seller, who's ultimately still doing nothing more with
respect to the gun, I think the focus has to be on what
are his activities? He hasn't even come into possession
of it in the example that Your Honor has given.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I think it would
be a natural, grammatical construction to say he's
willing to use the gun for the consideration.
MR. KOCH: Your Honor, I'm not certain that
we would -- that we -- that it could be held in the
absence even there of even possession -- whether or not
that would be enough to constitute the use. That would
be the first question that would occur to me. The --
certainly grammatically, and dealing, of course, with
the facts of this case, grammatically the question on
the table is: When interpreting 18 U.S.C. Section
924(c)(1) giving it, as this Court held in Smith, its
plain and ordinary meaning, the example that was used by
the D.C. Circuit in United States v. Stewart, I thought,
was appropriate, where -- the coffee shop example, where
you have the -- the individual buying the coffee, and
you have the cashier.
The -- the customer doesn't -- the customer
comes in and pays with the dollar. The cashier accepts
the dollar, but the cafeteria isn't using the dollar by
receiving it as payment. It's just receiving it.
Likewise, the customer isn't using the coffee through
the act of receiving it. He's getting it.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if we look at this
transaction, a guns-for-drugs transaction, is there --
can you think of any good reason why Congress would want
to prescribe a 5-year penalty for the person who hands
over the gun, but not any penalty for the person who
receives the gun and hands over the drugs?
MR. KOCH: I do think that there are
distinctions between the two conducts, sir. First of
all, certainly the person that -- that has the gun and
is bringing it into that transaction I would suggest, as
a practical matter presents a different type of risk.
He's got the gun. He's in control of it. He's going to
decide when and if to hand it over and in what condition
it would be when he hands it over, or not to hand it
over at all. So that the --
JUSTICE ALITO: And so that the -- the risk
is Congress was worried that somebody would go to a
transaction like this with a gun originally intending to
trade it for drugs and then when one person gets there,
a person decides to shoot somebody with the gun?
MR. KOCK: I think --
JUSTICE ALITO: And that's why they would
penalize one side of this transaction and not the other?
MR. KOCH: Well, assuming of course it would
-- in Smith the Court held that that is a use within the
term of the statute. I think that the -- looking at --
this does not do violence to this Court's decision in
Bailey. There still has to be some active employment.
The person on the drug end of the transaction is --
really has nothing to do with the gun, doesn't even
possess the gun, which -- before the other party decides
to hand it over.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In Smith, the Court said
that the reason that selling the gun in exchange for
drugs -- what was dangerous about that was the potential
for instantly converting the gun from currency to a
cannon. But here isn't that even all the more of
concern because one who receives the gun can instantly
turn it around and shoot the drug seller?
MR. KOCH: He could if the gun was handed
over in a condition -- first of all, there -- were there
bullets or not? That's going to be up to, at the first
instance, whether he brings them or not, the gun seller.
The gun seller can decide whether to hand it over --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's the same on both
sides. It seems to me in both cases there is a risk of
using the gun. The one who comes in with the gun can
use it; the one who receives the gun can use it.
MR. KOCH: I will -- I will grant Your Honor
there's obviously risk presented by the presence of the
gun potentially by either party. I would suggest that,
as between the two parties, the fellow that shows up
with the gun who's going to decide when and if to hand
it over and in what condition, cocked, uncocked, loaded
or unloaded, et cetera, is in somewhat more control.
All that being said, one still gets back to
the central point, which is, regardless of Congress's
purpose or desires here, they still chose words that had
fairly common meanings, in this case "use." And very --
it's grammatically impossible, I'd suggest, in the
straightforward transaction and trade situation to
suggest that the guy that's receiving the gun is using
it by receiving it, any more than the cashier is using
the dollar that I pay for the cup of coffee with.
JUSTICE ALITO: If the person who hands over
the gun is not a government agent or informant, is there
any doubt that the person who hands over the drugs can
be charged with using the -- the gun under 18 U.S.C.
Section 2(b)? He causes -- the person who hands over
the gun, to do something that is a crime.
MR. KOCH: I do think that there -- that's
an issue that's been raised. I -- I question whether,
when the underlying offense itself is the transaction
and these are the only two parties, whether or not
aiding and abetting liability would be intended to
extend that far, any more than it would be, for example,
to a drug purchaser being charged with aiding and
abetting the distribution of drugs.
Certainly, given the severe penalties
involved, I -- I'm a little uncomfortable with that
being a usage of that statute or usage of the aiding and
abetting statute. I also would point out that the
overwhelming majority of these cases do involve police
informants, practically all of them.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you're relying on the
language of 924. If you look at the language of 2(b),
is there any doubt that this situation would fall
squarely under it? "Whoever willfully causes an act to
be done which if directly performed by him would be an
offense against the United States is punishable as a
principal."
MR. KOCH: That is what that statute says,
sir. There is some jurisprudence, and I'm -- it may be
older in nature -- that deals with two parties to a
transaction and whether or not aiding and abetting
liability can be used, again going back to my drug
purchaser situation. And I question whether or not the
-- the aiding and abetting statute can be used. It
would basically, in the drug context, read out the
possession statute. Every drug buyer could be charged
with distribution as a principal under Section 2. The
-- again, of course that's not charged here, and I've
not -- I've not seen cases where that has been charged.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Subsection (b) is
not charged in the indictment?
MR. KOCH: 18 U.S.C. Section 2 was what I
understood the question to be, Judge. I apologize.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. But that was
not charged in the indictment?
MR. KOCH: No, sir.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Section 2(b)?
MR. KOCH: It was not.
Now, the -- the government's brief concedes
it would not be natural to say that the customer in my
example with the coffee used the coffee. Unless we're
prepared to discard that standard usage of words and
sacrifice it for the purpose that we believe Congress
intended, then I think that the analysis really does
stop there if one's reading the language of the statute
and applying it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Koch, but the
government answers that, a dollar for coffee, by saying
it depends what question you ask. So if you ask was the
coffee part of a beverage transaction, the answer would
be of course yes.
MR. KOCH: One of the problems --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is a gun
transaction.
MR. KOCH: Yes, ma'am. One of the problems
I think that that raises that I see in different
contexts with this is the different ways that the word
"use" is used in an active or passive context. One
might see two people to that transaction and ask, is a
dollar being used in that transaction? And I think that
we would all fairly say yes. But the focus in 924(c) is
on that defendant: Did he use it? Just in the coffee
shop example, did the cashier use the dollar? Or in my
example, did Mr. Watson use the firearm? And I think
that that's -- that's the question that needs to be
asked and when that question is asked in that format,
then the answer I suggest is no.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't remember whether
you ask in your brief as an alternative argument for the
overruling of Smith.
MR. KOCH: I did not raise that in the
briefs, no, ma'am.
With regards to Bailey, which I think
answers to a great extent some of the questions
presented here, Bailey of course held that 924(c)(1)
requires evidence sufficient to show an active
employment of the firearm by the defendant. Mr. Watson
here did not actively employ the firearm. Bailey
narrowed the category of uses that fell within the
statute. To quote Bailey, it said "It's undeniable the
active employment reading of use restricts the scope of
924(c)(1)." That's the jewel of that case. Bailey held
that use requires active employment, not only in general
but by the defendant.
More importantly perhaps to this case,
Bailey held that possession alone is not use, and here
Mr. Watson was trying to achieve possession, but -- and
ultimately when he did get possession, he had it
instantaneously. So looking at it from a temporal
standpoint, first he receives the gun. Before that
point he doesn't have possession, so he doesn't even
rise to the level of Bailey. After that point, all he
did was possess it for an instant, still not enough, I'd
suggest, to qualify as active employment or use under
Bailey, the most recent definition that we have
available.
There's an argument presented by the
government that feeds off of Smith's use of 924(d) which
I wanted to mention briefly. The -- and that is the --
the importation of the definition of the term "use" from
924(d), the forfeiture provision of the statute, into
924(c).
In Smith, the Court held that there were
predicate offenses for 924(d) in which the only way that
the weapon could be used was in a non-weapon use, which
is what the Court was concerned about in the Smith case,
and therefore the Court found, looking at those
predicate offenses that had non-weapon uses only, that
therefore the term "use" as it's employed in 924(d) must
include non-weapon use. That logic, however -- and
that's the argument made by the government -- that
doesn't translate into the situation we have here. It's
addressed, by the way, on page 9 of our reply brief in
some detail. I'll talk about it briefly.
First of all, 924(d) is a forfeiture
provision and the focus there necessarily is on the
firearm, not on the defendant. The language in 924(d)
is, quote, "any firearm or ammunition intended to be
used in one of the predicate offenses." That's compared
with 924(c), which states "any person who during and in
relation to a drug trafficking crime uses or carries a
firearm."
So you have firearm intended to be used on
the one hand, versus a person who uses a firearm. One
might say perhaps that in this transaction a firearm was
used, but not -- that's a different thing from saying
that Mr. Watson used the firearm. It's a passive versus
active formulation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It has to be used by
somebody, some human, and the human in this case is
Mr. Watson.
MR. KOCH: Well, ma'am, I think under Smith
the human that's using the firearm in the transaction is
actually the person that came with the firearm to use it
to purchase drugs. And as -- as Smith said that that
was definitely a use, it wasn't even really contested in
Smith. And so I -- and I'm not contesting for this case
obviously that that person that showed up with the gun
is using the gun to get drugs.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. It wasn't
contested in Smith?
MR. KOCH: I beg your pardon, Judge. I
meant that the Court, in its holding -- I recognize that
it was contested. In its holding, the Court said that
it tended to focus more on the question of whether or
not a nonweapon use would -- would be required. But
the -- certainly as between the two parties in this
transaction, the guy that shows up with the gun trying
to use it to get drugs is certainly making use of it in
a way that, that recipient is not.
The -- in, in Smith, the Court reached the
opinion it did about the meaning of the term "use" only
because there were, there were predicate offenses in
which the only uses available were nonweapons uses. By
contrast, here the predicate offenses that are suggested
to import this definition of "use," there aren't any
predicate offenses in which the only way to commit the
offense is through receipt.
I'll grant you that there are predicate
offenses in which receipt is one of the ways in which
the offense can be committed, but it's not the only way.
And so that logical step can't be made, as it arguably
could have been in Smith.
And finally, unlike the situation in Smith,
here we know that the predicate offenses can't be
interpreted --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Go back over
that.
MR. KOCH: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why couldn't it have been
said in Smith that -- that trading it for drugs was not
the only way in which the offense could have been
committed? Couldn't the same thing have been said in
Smith?
MR. KOCH: In Smith the argument, as I took
it from the opinion, Justice, was that the -- when one
looked at, at the predicates, there were several which
had, according to the opinion, only nonweapon uses. So
if, if it's used or intended to be used in committing
one of those offenses and one looks at those offenses
and there's only nonweapon uses, then so the argument
goes, that means nonweapon uses are part of use.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So the issue in Smith was
weapon versus nonweapon, and that's not what you're
arguing here?
MR. KOCH: That's correct, sir.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The issue here is use
versus nonuse, active employment versus passive receipt?
MR. KOCH: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why isn't it -- why isn't
your argument more directly that the issue here is -- is
nonweapon use by A versus nonweapon use by B? You
represent B and you say B wasn't the one who used it in
a nonweapon sense?
MR. KOCH: I agree that certainly Mr. Watson
didn't use it in any weapons sense. So if there is a
use at all, it would be in a nonweapon sense.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And if you are right,
that's the end of the case.
MR. KOCH: I understand, Your Honor. I
understand what you're saying. I believe you're right.
That is another way. It's not -- it's not the direction
that we went, but that makes sense.
The -- what we focused on was use or not at
the first instance. And Smith having decided that in
that case use and defining it broadly to include a
nonweapon use here, we're getting to the point where
there's no use at all in the first place.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you're not -- as you
said before, you're not arguing for the overruling of
Smith, and therefore, you concede that the other party
to the transaction used the gun.
MR. KOCH: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE SOUTER: In a nonweapon sense.
MR. KOCH: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think you are making his
argument. I think you're -- you're too humble, the
argument you're making.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's really not a bad one.
I mean, you don't --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but what you're
saying is that all Watson did was to receive the gun.
But he agreed to accept the gun as payment.
MR. KOCH: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that in
that sense he used a gun. It wasn't his gun yet, but he
agreed that if the gun would be brought to the scene of
the transaction, that he would accept receipt of it.
MR. KOCH: I would suggest, sir, that the
agreement couldn't rise to the, to the level of active
employment as that term is used in Bailey. In other
words, at that point all he has done is make a statement
that he'll accept something if it's offered. Whereas in
Bailey --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: He says, you get a gun,
you put it in your car, you come to my house, you bring
that gun with you, and I will give you drugs. I think
in a sense he's using the gun. It's through the, the
actions of another that he is doing it to be sure.
MR. KOCH: We -- I would take the position
that he certainly, in a situation like that where he is,
he is not possessing the gun, he is expressing his
intentions or desires with respect to it. But he is not
in a position to do anything more than that. I don't
think that that fits within the definition of "use." I
don't think that if I say that, that I'd like to buy
your house and if you'll sell it to me, that I'm using
the house.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Perhaps. But it seems to
me to unduly constrict the case to say that all he did
was receive it. He did more than that. He agreed in
advance.
MR. KOCH: It is correct that when he --
that although he initially wanted to ask how much the
gun was --
JUSTICE STEVENS: He agreed to let the other
party to the transaction use a gun to pay for the drugs,
the other party to make the use of the gun.
MR. KOCH: Factually what happened was that
he wanted to buy a gun. And then the police officer,
the undercover people said, well, instead of giving
money, we'll take drugs for it, which of course, brought
us within the statute. That's the factual, particular
factual circumstances here.
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you have besides
the linguistic argument? I mean, when I start out, I
can't think of a reason why Congress wouldn't want to
penalize the buyer, not the seller. We are dealing with
a statute that does catch your client, if they had only
charged him with the right part. But no one in his
right mind would ever rely on a ruling in your favor to
actually engage in such a transaction, since it would
violate the statute in 15 different ways. I exaggerate,
but you see the point.
So you have a linguistic argument which
people are -- you're right, I think, in saying it's
awkward but not impossible. And, therefore, awkward but
not impossible; we create an anomaly in the law. I
can't think of a reason why to do it. So what else do
you have?
MR. KOCH: Bailey. I have this Court's
decision in Bailey, Your Honor, namely there that it
can't just be a use. Even if we were to go ahead and
hold our mouths and make that awkward formation and say
what he did was a use, it's still not rising to the
level as Bailey interpreted the term of active
employment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And, of course, you could
say the same thing about Bailey, I suppose. You know,
What was there in Bailey except -- what was the term,
linguistic -- nothing but a linguistic decision.
MR. KOCH: I guess ultimately --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Bailey doesn't make any
more sense either from a policy standpoint.
MR. KOCH: I do think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We sometimes we rely on
linguistics, don't we?
MR. KOCH: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE BREYER: And sometimes we try to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And sometimes the words of
the statute.
MR. KOCH: I do think --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't want to put you in
a whipsaw here.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Sometimes policy seems
relevant, too, to figure out what Congress wanted.
But let me go back to the question I had,
which is do you want to us overturn Smith? Are you
asking that, because I could understand it more easily
if you said, look, both sides of the transaction should
be treated alike, but they should be both outside the
word "use."
MR. KOCH: I do not believe it's necessary
for this Court to overrule Smith in order to rule for
the Petitioner here, because of -- because of the
differences, first of all linguistically; and secondly
because of the reliance on Bailey.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And in answer to my
question, you said you were not urging the overruling of
Smith?
MR. KOCH: That's correct. That being said,
I think that there is, there are arguments that can be
presented, they were presented in Smith, as to whether
one could take one position or the other. But it
doesn't, it doesn't do violence to Smith to hold for the
Petitioner here.
Ultimately, when you look at the Bailey
decision and at the facts of Bailey, and there you have
people riding around with guns in the trunk of their
car, and that's held not to be a use within the statute.
Well, here Watson didn't even do that. He
never had the guns in the first place going into the
transaction. So it seems to me if Bailey --
JUSTICE BREYER: But he receives the gun and
it could have been loaded. And if it was loaded, you
receive a loaded gun, and you're there and you give the
money for the gun and you have the gun and somebody
comes up, maybe you'll shoot him. I mean, that seems
like a risk.
MR. KOCH: Under Bailey, however, if all he
did was receive the gun, hold it in his hand, Bailey
says that's not enough, that's not a use. And, of
course, those are the facts of this case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose he received the
gun, loaded it and said, well, now, let's renegotiate
this transaction?
(Laughter.)
MR. KOCH: As Bailey -- as Bailey thought
very clearly, if he then takes the gun and uses it to
communicate a threat to the other party, then he is
making a use. He is now actively employing it, in this
case, as a threatening item.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But he doesn't brandish
it. He just, he puts it in his pocket and he says:
Let's renegotiate this. What result? Could the
government charge him?
MR. KOCH: Your Honor, I believe if the jury
was to find in that factual scenario that that was --
that he was, in fact, silently making reference to the
gun, then I think that gets you within Bailey. There's
all kinds of things Mr. Watson could do beyond what the
facts of this case are that would turn it, what he did,
into active employment and use. But merely getting it
and putting it -- and holding it, which are the facts in
this record, doesn't -- doesn't rise to the level of use
under Bailey.
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought Bailey involved a
guy, he had the gun in a locked thing in the trunk of
his car, which is a little different from holding it in
your hand.
MR. KOCH: There were -- there were actually
two, two different fact patterns in the consolidated.
One had a gun that was locked up in another room, the
other one had guns in the trunk, with expert testimony
being that that was the typical method of drug dealers
to protect their drugs and things.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If he has a gun in his
hand he is certainly carrying it.
MR. KOCH: He did have the gun in his hand
then he would be carrying it under Muscarello and the
other cases. That's correct. Yes, ma'am.
Recognizing again I just would point out
that whatever condition Mr. Watson had the gun in and --
in this record that's unloaded -- was the choice, not of
Mr. Watson but of the people that brought him the gun.
In this clip fed gun it was up to him whether you give
him a clip or not, without which the gun is useless,
which in this case was the choice of the police officers
as to how they were going to hand it to him.
MR. KOCH: I have no other -- nothing else,
unless there's any questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Koch.
Ms. Maynard.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DEANNE E. MAYNARD
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. MAYNARD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Petitioner used the firearm by accepting it
in exchange for his drugs. In doing so Petitioner used
it during and in relation to a drug trafficking crime.
Although the situation in Smith was different, the
principle of Smith is that use of a firearm as an item
of trade or commerce -- specifically used as the medium
of exchange -- is a use falling within the meaning of
Section 924(C).
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that does not answer
the question use by whom. As I understand it, we are
not really arguing about whether the gun was used in the
transaction; we are arguing about whether the defendant
was the one who used it.
MS. MAYNARD: And the Petitioner did use it
here, Your Honor. In agreeing to take it in exchange
for a certain amount of his drugs --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but I mean, the
problem you, it seems to me you've got that you can't
totally paper over is that that's not usually the way we
talk. I mean, if I buy a car, and pay money for it, I
do not use the car in the transaction. It's what I have
after the transaction is complete; and you, you got that
kind of linguistic problem here, it seems to me.
MS. MAYNARD: If you buy the car, then you
have used the car as an item of trade or commerce during
or in relation to that commercial transaction. We don't
usually talk that way but we do -- and one can --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's enough to say we don't
usually talk that way.
MS. MAYNARD: I don't think so, Your Honor.
As long as --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the end of it. We
don't talk that way. We don't say use a car when you
buy a car.
MS. MAYNARD: Well here, Your Honor, it's
important to put it into statutory context, of course,
and the statutory context asks whether or not one has
used the firearm during or in relation to a drug
trafficking crime, here a drug transaction. And I do --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It adds an additional
element you have to prove but it doesn't answer the
linguistic point.
MS. MAYNARD: I think one can employ use in
a natural way to mean receipt in the way that Petitioner
used the firearm here. The subway system uses tokens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: If you're on the other
side of the transaction, it's perfectly natural to say I
used the gun for the transaction. What is the converse
sentence? I used the gun --
MS. MAYNARD: I used the gun as a medium of
exchange to sell my drugs. Just in the same way that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I didn't use the gun as a
medium of exchange. I accepted the gun as a medium of
exchange. He didn't use it until he got it.
MS. MAYNARD: I believe in any barter
transaction, Your Honor, in particular, where one side
has said as they negotiate it out, I will sell you this
amount of drugs for this particular firearm, then both
have used the gun as the medium of exchange --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if you have --
sorry.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you don't have the
simple sentence. I used the gun to pay for the drugs --
that's easy, but you don't have a simple countervailing
sentence.
MS. MAYNARD: I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose you could say we
used the gun in order to complete the drug transaction.
MS. MAYNARD: And -- and the drug dealer
used the gun as the medium of exchange to complete his
drug sale, and I do think we do sometimes use "use" in
that way, Justice Stevens. The subway system uses
tokens. The metro system.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, let's say --
let's say you have a duel, and each person in the duel
needs to have a weapon. One person has a gun; the other
person has the sword. Would you say the person with the
sword is using the gun in the duel?
MS. MAYNARD: Well in a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because you can't
have a duel without both people having weapons.
MS. MAYNARD: You would have certainly
used --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You wouldn't say
that the person --
MS. MAYNARD: -- the sword as weapon. There
is no exchange there, Your Honor. Here it's crucial,
because you have during your relation to a drug
trafficking crime, which here is the drug exchange, just
like in Smith.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Each person in the
drug exchange brings to the table what they've got. The
one has the drugs; the other brings the gun. That
doesn't mean that the person with the drugs is using the
gun.
MS. MAYNARD: If he agrees to trade his
drugs for the gun as the currency to close the drug
transaction, I believe he has used the gun in the way
that we normally use the word.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the only way you can
make that argument is to define the crime as consisting
of the agreement as opposed to the consummated
transaction.
MS. MAYNARD: No. I think the -- I think
the crime is the taking of the firearm in exchange for
the drugs.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I thought you said a
minute ago that he was using it because he agreed to
accept it.
MS. MAYNARD: I think one could make the
argument, Justice Souter, that an agreement alone is a
use once, one agrees to use the gun as the medium of
exchange to sell one's drugs. The Government is not
pressing that point here today and we don't, and the
Court need not go that far because here Petitioner did
receive the drugs, and the reason that possibly the
agreement line goes too far is the rationale of this
Court's decision in Smith where the Court pointed out
that someone who makes a material misstatement in order
to acquire a gun is clearly not using the gun, but the
Court gave examples of receipt offenses in, in the
forfeiture provisions in Section 924(D) where receipt of
a firearm is a use under the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why wouldn't making
a material misstatement in order to obtain a gun
constitute a use of the gun -- as much as it, the
receipt of the gun constitutes a use of the gun here?
What's the difference between the two situations?
MS. MAYNARD: I think one could make the
argument, Your Honor, as I said, that making material
statement. I'm saying the Court in Smith --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not if you believe Smith.
MS. MAYNARD: I beg your pardon.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not if you believe Smith.
MS. MAYNARD: Because -- and that's why the
Government is drawing the line today at actual receipt,
and that's - that's all that's involved in this case.
The actual taking of the firearm where then you have all
the dangers present with which Congress was concerned,
which is --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes but Justice Breyer
made the very persuasive argument that it doesn't make
sense to treat both sides of the transaction exactly the
same; but isn't it the fact that in many drug
transactions the buyer is not treated the same way as
the seller? It's a crime to sell poison drugs but it
may not be a crime to buy the poison drugs.
MS. MAYNARD: Well, there are two points in
response to that, Your Honor. One is that if the buyer
of drugs buys the distribution quantity, then we do
often treat the buyer as a distributor under the
distribution statute.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But generally speaking
buyers and sellers are not always treated alike in the
criminal law, are they?
MS. MAYNARD: When Congress -- no that's
correct, Your Honor; but in those cases where Congress
uses words, like it does in the distribution statute,
that clearly targets one side or other of the
transaction. But here what the Court is interpreting is
the much broader word, "use," and we know from Section
924(D)'s forfeiture provisions that Congress employed
the word use broadly in Section 924(d) and used it to
include receipt crimes; and Smith cites several examples
of receipt crimes that Smith believed was a use,
including unlicensed receipt of a firearm from out of
State, receipt of a stolen firearm and receipt of a
firearm with an intent to commit a felony; and in
context Congress clearly did use "use" broadly in
Section 924(D). If -- if in response to their argument
in Ponce, their argument about (D)(1), the forfeiture
provisions in (D)(1) and D 3, I do think those
provisions strongly support the Government's argument
here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? There's -- they refer
to crimes in which there has been a receipt but there
has also been a conveyance. Why do you focus on the
receiver rather than the conveyer?
MS. MAYNARD: Because our reading, Justice
Scalia, gives full effect to the provisions that
Congress has carefully chosen to place in (D)(3) and the
Petitioner's reading does not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What are they?
MS. MAYNARD: And if I could explain it. In
(D)(1) -- it's on page 8a of our brief, (D)(1)-- in
924(D)(1) Congress provided two principal ways in which
the Government can forfeit firearms. The first is if an
offense is completed, the Government can forfeit a
firearm that is involved in or used in that offense.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Involved in -- that
broadens that enormously, doesn't it?
MS. MAYNARD: Yes it does, Your Honor; but
that actually strengthens my point.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It cuts the other
way. Congress knows how to say involved in if it wants
to reach that broadly, and it didn't do it under the
provision in which -- pursuant to which Mr. Watson was
indicted.
MS. MAYNARD: Well yes, Your Honor, but if
you allow me to continue on, further on in (D)(1)
Congress used a narrow subset of crimes some of which
include receipt crimes where it only used the word use
and that's the logic to this Court's decision in Smith
and it applies equally here. Further down in (D)(1)
Congress allowed the Government to forfeit firearms
intended to be used in certain very specific listed
crimes, and in other words to forfeit the firearms
before the -- the crime actually is committed. Some of
those crimes include -- receipt crimes -- include the
very receipt crimes listed by this Court in Smith' and
so given that Congress believed that the firearms
intended to be used in purely receipt crimes were
ultimately going to be used by the receipt, Congress
employed the term here very broadly including to receipt
of a firearm.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It could be -- it could
have -- it is intended to be used, not necessarily. As
-- as your opponent pointed out, this section does not
focus on the individual. It focuses on the firearm,
simply for -- for confiscation of the firearm. And,
therefore, it suffices if either side intended it to be
used. It doesn't have to be the recipient who intended
it to be used even though it's a receipt crime. It was
intended to be used by the other side. Wouldn't that
make sense?
MS. MAYNARD: I think if you were to
interpret (d)(3) in that way, Your Honor, you would do
great violence to what Congress intended. If I can
point you to page 10-A of our brief in -- it's (d)(3)
that sets forth very particularly the crimes that
Congress thought the government should be able to
forfeit firearms before the crime occurs.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What page is that?
MS. MAYNARD: It's on the government's gray
brief, 10-A. In (e) of 922 -- this is 924. I'm sorry,
924(d)(3)(E ). It includes any offense described in
section -- and it lists several examples including
922(n). And 922(n) is set forth in the government's
brief on page 2-A, which makes it a crime for someone
under felony indictment to ship, transport, or receive a
firearm.
Now, under Petitioner's reading they would
say: Well, that's fine. That still has meaning. Under
our reading of "use," the government can forfeit
firearms that the person under felony indictment intends
to ship or transport, but cannot forfeit firearms that
the --
JUSTICE BREYER: This is what -- this is
what is bothering me about your side of this case. I
start thinking this is a total fluke. Normally, you
would charge him under "possession in furtherance of,"
which you didn't for reasons I don't know. Or he would
be an accessory, which he isn't here because the other
side was a government agent. So we've got a fluke.
Now, if I accept your linguistic approach, I
don't know what I'm getting into. Imagine an artillery
team. One loads the ammunition; the other pulls the
trigger. We say the team used the ammunition, but the
guy who pulled the trigger by himself didn't.
Think of a baseball team. The pitcher
doesn't use the bat, but the team does.
Now, if I take your linguistic approach,
where am I in respect to other statutes? But if I deny
your linguistic approach on the ground that it's
unnatural to say "use" of the -- the individual used it,
all I've done is create a fluke case because it will
never come up again.
MS. MAYNARD: I don't think that it's --
several responses, Your Honor. I don't think it's
unnatural to use "use" to mean "receipt" when you're
talking about using something as a medium of exchange
during and in relation to a drug trafficking crime.
Because, as I said before, company stores use script.
American stores use dollars. French stores use euros.
We can use the word "use" and then have to wait --
JUSTICE BREYER: But those are all examples
that I used the gun to pay for the item. You don't use
the word "use" when you're the seller. It doesn't fit.
MS. MAYNARD: No, Your Honor. I disagree.
I think when a company store uses script, that means it
accepts script as money from the company employees.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if Congress
passes a statute saying anyone who uses a gun in a crime
of violence gets an additional sentence, the person who
is shot is using the gun in a crime of violence?
MS. MAYNARD: You wouldn't have to go that
far here, Your Honor, because the "use" here is use as a
medium of exchange. So the court need go no further.
And that's another response to Justice Breyer. The
Court need go no further than it did in Smith, which you
-- it doesn't have to -- we have much more than receipt
simpliciter here, Justice Breyer. We have the
negotiated transaction where he received the firearms as
the medium of exchange.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is that a
necessary element of the offense: That the transaction
be negotiated in advance?
MS. MAYNARD: No, Your Honor, if you take it
as the medium of exchange to sell your drugs. He
doesn't dispute that he engaged in a drug trafficking
crime, and he doesn't dispute that he took the gun as
the currency to close that drug deal, and that is a use
within the meaning -- within a natural meaning of "use,"
if it is used as currency.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you saying that the
parties are viewed collectively so that in Justice
Breyer's example the pitcher and the batter used a ball
and a bat. Is that your position? And in this case the
seller and the buyer used drugs and a gun.
MS. MAYNARD: In any bartering exchange,
Justice Kennedy --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, does that fit with
the words of the statute, any person who --
MS. MAYNARD: Any person --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Even though it's a
collective enterprise, you can still focus on one of the
parties and prevail. Is that your position?
MS. MAYNARD: Well, imagine -- imagine a
statute that made it a crime to use United States
currency during and in relation to a drug trafficking
crime. A drug dealer who sold his drugs for cash would
surely be in violation of that statute.
This is no different. The Court has already
held that using the firearm as currency is a violation
of the statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't think -- I
don't see how your hypothetical advances the argument.
I mean, I don't necessarily agree that someone who sells
drugs for currency is using the currency in the
transaction. They are accepting it. It is what they
want. That's not the same as using it.
MS. MAYNARD: No, Your Honor. I think they
are using it as the medium of exchange, which I think
even under the sentence rationale in Smith -- such as --
such as statutes, if you would say: Well, what's the
normally intended use of United States currency? And
that would be as the medium of exchange, and both
parties would be --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's what
weakens your hypothetical. It's not the normal use of
a gun as a medium of exchange.
MS. MAYNARD: Yes, but the Court has already
held that using a gun as the medium of exchange falls
within the statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It held that the
person who does use the gun, which is the natural,
grammatical construction, uses the firearm. That's
quite a bit different than the question of whether
someone who receives it as the consideration is using
the firearm.
MS. MAYNARD: I think the rationale
necessary to the holding in Smith, Your Honor, was that
use of a gun as an item of trade or commerce,
specifically as the medium of exchange, is the "use."
And, in fact, Smith refers several times to an earlier
D.C. Circuit decision in Harris, a per curiam, a public
per curiam, in which two members of this Court were on
the panel, that involved this very fact pattern, where
the -- the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but the argument in
Justice O'Connor's opinion was largely linguistic. The
natural use of the word "use" is to say: I used it to
pay for the gun -- I used it to pay for the drugs,
rather. But you don't have a countervailing sentence
that fits into anything in her opinion, and you haven't
really answered his reliance on the -- on the other
case, which requires active use.
MS. MAYNARD: I think in -- in Bailey, Your
Honor, the Court required a use that makes the gun an
operative factor, a use that changes the circumstances
where both parties are aware the gun is being used.
This is a far cry from Bailey. This is not
locked-up weapons where only one party is aware of their
existence to protect the store of drugs. This gun was
front and center, part and parcel, of the drug
transaction. It was --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was -- Watson
possessed the gun, would you agree with that, in
furtherance of the transaction? Would you say that this
case fits the statute, as amended, so it could have been
charged as possession?
MS. MAYNARD: Yes, Your Honor. That's the
government's position.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why was it -- why wasn't
possession charged here?
MS. MAYNARD: I do not know the specific
circumstances of the charging decision here, Justice
Ginsburg, but in the Fifth Circuit the law was already
clear that this was a use. And, indeed, when Congress
amended the statute post Bailey to expand this Court's
understanding of the meaning of "use," there was no need
to address this particular fact pattern because most of
the circuits had been --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the prosecution would
certainly want to assure the success of the argument;
and if this is clearly possession, why wasn't possession
charged? And does the Department of Justice give any
guidance to prosecutors since the 1988 amendment on what
to charge in these situations?
MS. MAYNARD: I don't know the answer to
that, Your Honor. I don't know the answer to either of
those questions, but I do know that we argued in our
opposition to the cert petition that this question
doesn't have much going-forward significance because of
that new amendment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe they were doubtful
about whether the "possession" thing applies here. I
don't know. Possesses a firearm in furtherance of the
crime -- I mean, the crime has been completed by the
time the -- the person who is receiving the gun has
possession of it.
MS. MAYNARD: I think it's part and parcel
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's hard to say it's in
furtherance of the crime when the crime is over once he
gets it. His possession is not in furtherance of the
crime, it seems to me. It's the other person's
possession that's in furtherance of the crime. He
possesses it so he can turn it over, which is the crime.
But I mean I'm just not all that sure that you have a
hundred percent easy case on the possession point.
MS. MAYNARD: Well, the Petitioner agreed
with you on that, Your Honor, but four circuits have
agreed with the government. On the going-forward basis,
we think we do have a good argument. Here, and in your
hypothetical, imagine the situation where the gun is
turned over first, and then the payment -- and then the
drugs are traded. It would certainly seem that you
possessed it in furtherance there.
I think it is possession in furtherance in
-- in -- because it is the sine qua non of drug
transactions. It's the very part and parcel of drug
transactions. But it does -- this case does matter to
the government because the government has prosecuted
peeople properly, it thinks, under the "use" prong of
the statute. Those people are -- currently stand
convicted; and, as experience proves post-Bailey, if
this Court were to rule against the government here,
that could have an effect on those people's current
incarceration.
If I could get back to my 922(d) point, just
to finish up, which is that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I just -- I
don't understand the significance of the argument you
just made. Are you saying that because some people
might be let out of prison if we correctly construed the
statute, we should read it your way?
MS. MAYNARD: No, Your Honor. Of course if
the Court feels that these people are properly
convicted, then, you know, they can pursue whatever
remedies they may have.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what was your
point referring to the people who were convicted under
this statute --under this construction of the statute?
MS. MAYNARD: That it -- that it is of
ongoing importance to the government, even though as a
prospective matter the government may be able to charge
this conduct under possession and furtherance.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought the
argument you made earlier was that this may not be of
particular ongoing significance because of the
amendment.
MS. MAYNARD: Right, Your Honor. From now
on, the government could charge, if you rule against us
in this case, we believe we can charge this conduct
under possession and furtherance. However, my point is
-- is that we nevertheless care about the result in this
case. We believe that people in this situation have
used a firearm as a medium of exchange during and in
relation to a drug trafficking crime and stand properly
convicted. It was only to make the point that the
government does have an interest in how the Court rules
in this case and that it's not meaningless to us which
prong applies here.
Back to the 922(d)(4) point, the -- under
Petitioner's reading, it would mean that the government
can't forfeit firearms in a situation like someone under
felony indictment ships or transports -- intends to ship
or transform a firearm. Under Petitioner's reading the
Government can forfeit that because they consider that
to be active verbs, but under -- if the person under
felony indictment simply intends to receive a firearm,
the government would have to wait until that person
receives the firearm in order to be able to forfeit it,
and that is -- I suggest that no rational Congress would
have meant that by referring to the provision.
They do point to -- well, if there -- if
there are no further questions, the government believes
that this crime,this -- that the use of the gun in this
manner is a crime, that there's no reason to believe
that Congress would have wanted the defendant in Smith
to stand convicted of this crime but to leave the drug
dealer who ends up with the gun not with the punishment
for this crime.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Something just occurred to
me. When you distinguish the case,our unanimous
opinion requiring active use, you said, well, that --
that gun was in the trunk of a car so -- what if this
gun had been in the trunk of the car also and the guy
said, well, it's now -- that's your gun?
MS. MAYNARD: Whose trunk is it in, Your
Honor?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, they just
transferred ownership in exchange for drugs with -- by
transferring title to a gun that was located in the --
in the trunk of a car.
MS. MAYNARD: If he has constructive
possession of it, Justice Stevens, and he's -- I believe
he would have received it and that would be sufficient.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So it -- it was not
sufficient in -- in Bailey in any case, but it would be
sufficient here because it played a role in the
transaction?
MS. MAYNARD: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you.
MS. MAYNARD: But -- I mean Bailey makes
examples to things that would involve an active
employment including reference to a gun that -- if the
reference to a gun changes the circumstances of the
underlying offense.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But -- but Smith, in
Smith, Justice O'Connor used the illustration turning
currency into a cannon. You can't do that very well if
the gun is in a car, in a locked trunk in a car on the
street. You can't turn the currency, the gun, into a
cannon.
MS. MAYNARD: That's true, Justice Ginsburg,
and if the Court wanted to limit it to "use" means that
you've actually taken possession of it because that --
that's all the government is defending here. That's
what happened in this case. That's what happens in most
of the cases.
I -- I would also like to say in response to
their point about the government sting, that if you look
at the cases in the courts of appeals, there are many
cases where -- that indicate these kinds of trades do
happen in the real world absent government involvement.
For example, in the First Circuit's decision in Cotto,
which is currently pending before the Court, the -- the
person who ultimately came -- became the confidential
informant -- before that the drug deal her sold to her
drugs for guns on 20 separate occasions. So this does
go on --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is -- is there any reason
in such a case, if you lost this case, in the future
could you not just charge, as Justice Alito said, that
they're a principal in the possession by the seller?
MS. MAYNARD: We -- we believe --
JUSTICE BREYER: If the government is not
involved? And if the government's involved on the other
side, I guess you'd have to charge an attempt.
MS. MAYNARD: There is no attempt offense
under Section 924(c), Justice Breyer. You can use a gun
during and in relation to an attempted drug crime, but
you can't attempt to use a gun.
The -- the government believes it could, on
a going-forward basis, charge possession -- oh, you're
asking me about whether we could charge aiding and
abetting going forward. The -- the Seventh Ccircuit has
suggested in Dick that that would be open to the
government to charge. I think that -- and potentially,
even though it wasn't in the indictment here, it could
be read into the indictment. But there are two possible
issues: One that my colleague has pointed out, which is
in some cases where Congress has criminalized one side
of the transaction but not the other. And so that might
be the situation here. The Court --
JUSTICE BREYER: And so your -- your
practical argument then is that there has been
considerable reliance on your interpretation to the
extent that many people have been convicted under it.
How many?
MS. MAYNARD: That I don't know, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: About? About? Have any
rough idea?
MS. MAYNARD: I don't know, Your Honor, but
there are six circuits on our side of the conflict and
-- so it -- it -- I don't know.
If there are no further questions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Maynard. Mr. Koch, you have 4 minute remaining.
REBUTTAL ARBUMENT BY KARL KOCH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KOCH: Thank you, Your Honor.
As -- as I indicated before I don't think
that it's necessary to overrule Smith to rule for the
Petitioner, but if -- if consistency on both sides of
the transaction is desired and certainly something has
to go, I would suggest it ought to be Smith because
otherwise you're stuck with Bailey and with what I
suggest are settled principles of statutory
construction. The -- I think Smith takes -- takes it
about as far as it could go, and you're having to make
-- you have to make a number of linguistic compromises
to get to the Smith result to begin with.
The -- with regard to the -- the charging as
possession or furtherance or not, again it's not before
us, it's not part of this case I would suggest that
Mr. Watson possessed this firearm as a consequence of a
drug transaction rather than in furtherance of a drug
transaction.
I do think, and it's obvious from other
statutes in the neighborhood, that Congress certainly
knows how to say "receive" and "accept" and words of
that nature, if it was its intent to -- to make the
receipt of a weapon or bring that within the ambit of
this -- of this particular statute.
I don't think it's enough to say, as my
opponent does, use as a medium of exchange if it's a
crime for example to use a forged instrument. The guy
who accepts it doesn't use it, I don't think by any
reasonable interpretation. So I think that that -- that
really stretches this farther than it should go.
Lastly, I would point out, and again this is
in our brief around page 9, with respect to this 924(d)
argument, one of the predicate offenses that's used in
924(d) is 922(j), which includes language "it shall be
unlawful for any person to receive, possess, conceal,
store, barter, sell, or dispose of" et cetera. Well,
"possess" is there in 922(j), yet we know from Bailey
that "possess" in and of itself can't be a use. And
that's just one of the reasons why that argument
unfortunately falls apart when one is trying to import
those definitions of use into this statute.
I have nothing further.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Koch.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 10:59 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
11:9 41:16 12:9 beyond 25:1
48:22
43:10,12 appropriate back 9:20 11:10 brandish 24:18
51:17 agreement ARBUMENT 44:4 45:13 22:13,17,20
agrees 30:8,24 argued 42:15 6:2 8:17 13:11 37:13 38:1,4
30:21 aiding 10:14,16 17:23 18:23 13:24 14:5,8 49:6,12
50:17 10:20 11:9,12 26:23,24 19:20,23 21:20 Breyer's 38:19
Alito 7:15 8:5,11 13:7 14:10,24 23:18,23 24:5 35:16,22 36:1
50:24 allow 34:12 19:5,6 21:5,14 25:6,7 41:6,10 briefly 14:12
ambit 50:19 33:7,8,10 ball 38:19 bring 19:25
12:21 American 37:11 arguments basically 5:10 broadens 34:3
ammunition 23:12 11:13 broader 32:23
15:16 15:6 36:19,20 artillery 36:18 basis 43:12 broadly 18:19
19:19 amount 27:3 asked 5:9 13:4,4 48:20 32:25 33:6
25:3 28:20 asking 22:24 bat 36:23 38:20 34:8 35:1
45:19 analysis 12:7 48:21 Baton 1:15 brought 19:16
47:5 anomaly 21:17 asks 27:24 batter 38:19 21:1 25:25
24:16 12:13 13:5 assuming 8:13 behalf 1:15,19 buy 20:10,24
answers 12:11 attempted 48:17 12:6 18:14 21:7 32:7,11
apart 51:11 authors 5:6 28:17 30:10 buyers 32:16
aware 41:9,11 believed 33:2 C
cetera 9:19 51:7 10:3 12:4,4,11 confiscation contexts 12:20
27:7,8,11 47:7 colleague 49:2 conflict 49:15 contrast 16:18
charge 4:21 collective 39:3 conflicts 3:21 control 8:1 9:19
24:21 36:13 collectively Congress 7:17 converse 28:10
42:12 44:20 38:18 8:6 12:6 21:6 converting 8:25
11:14,16,17,19 commerce 26:18 35:15,18 37:19 44:13,16 45:9
9:23 13:20 41:19,23 42:10 commercial 46:4 49:3 correct 17:24
14:19 charging 41:25 27:13 50:16 20:17 23:11
18:12 50:9 commit 16:20 Congress's 9:21 25:21 32:19
20:14 Chief 3:3,9 4:18 33:5 consequence correctly 44:9
25:2 5:16 6:5,9,17 committed 50:12 Cotto 48:1
31:24 11:18,22,25 16:24 17:11 consider 45:18 countervailing
37:3 26:7,11 28:22 34:20 considerable 29:1 41:2
41:5,18 29:11,17,21 committing 49:8 course 4:3,17
45:3,6 30:3 34:6 17:17 consideration 6:25 8:13
46:24 37:19 38:7 common 9:23 6:6,19 40:12 11:16 12:14
48:8,8 39:13 40:1,8 communicate consistency 13:13 21:1
51:15,16 44:6,15,22 24:15 49:25 22:2 24:8
25:21 choice 25:24 37:17,18 consolidated court 1:1,12
47:20,23 26:3 compared 15:7 25:12 3:10 6:2 7:3
49:3 chose 9:22 complete 27:9 constitute 3:12 8:14,22 14:16
13:1 circuits 42:6 compromises 31:14 31:18 32:22
34:18 31:7 32:21 condition 8:2 30:14 8:16 21:20
10:18 client 4:22 21:8 conduct 44:21 16:4,7 42:3
18:8 clip 26:1,2 45:3 contesting 15:25 covers 5:2
25:18 close 30:9 38:14 conducts 7:22 context 11:13 create 21:17
21:7 disagree 37:16 duel 29:12,12,15 7:4,6 10:15
28:1 DEANNE 1:17 dispose 51:7 D.C 1:8,18 7:5 38:19 48:1
2:5 26:9 dispute 38:12,13 40:19 50:23
34:20 decide 8:2 9:8 distinctions 7:22 examples 31:8
36:1 9:17 distinguish 46:9 E 33:1 35:24
decided 18:18 distribution e 1:17 2:1,5 3:1 37:13 47:5
39:6,8 decides 8:9,20 10:17 11:15 3:1 26:9 35:22 exchange 3:12
43:3 decision 3:21 32:12,14,20 earlier 40:18 8:23 26:14,19
45:8 4:4 8:16 21:21 distributor 44:23 27:2 28:13,15
48:17 22:5 23:18 32:13 easily 22:24 28:16,21 29:7
31:5 34:15 doing 6:13 20:3 easy 29:1 43:9 29:24 30:1,4
48:1 dollar 7:10,11 either 9:15 22:8 37:25 38:6,11
deemed 5:14 7:11 10:3 35:8 42:14 38:22 39:20,24
defendant 12:25 12:11,23 13:1 element 28:3 40:3,5,17 45:7
define 30:13 drawing 31:23 employed 3:13 existence 41:12
38:14,16 definitions 28:1 29:5,6,8 employment exposure 5:18
51:12 29:25 30:1,4,9 3:23 6:3 8:17 expressing 20:6
47:11,13 deny 36:25 32:6 37:9 13:15,19,21 extend 10:15
depends 12:12 43:19,20 45:8 25:3 47:6
12:3 desired 50:1 50:13,13 engage 21:11 fact 5:11 24:24
7:20 8:8,24 enormously 40:18,21 42:5
34:12 difference 31:15 20:1,21 21:1 equally 34:16 24:8 25:2,4
35:14,16 differences 23:6 25:16 26:14 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 factual 21:2,3
26:16 39:10 32:8,9,12 evidence 13:14 fall 11:1
direction 18:15 39:16 41:1,12 exaggerate falls 40:5 51:11
focused 18:17 25:17 40:7 gray 35:21 46:12 50:23
45:16,20 15:3 31:9 giving 7:3 20:25 6:19 7:19,20 8:3 10:4,6,8
13:2,15 forward 48:22 9:6,17 11:10 18:25 19:11,12 held 3:22 6:21
15:5,6 found 14:20 23:22 26:4 19:15,15,16,24 7:3 8:14 13:13
four 43:11 34:25 48:22 20:1,2,6,19,21 13:20,24 14:16
French 37:11 going-forward 20:22,24 23:24 23:20 39:11
27:25 front 41:13 42:17 43:12 24:1,2,2,6,10 40:5,8
30:17 full 33:17 48:20 24:14,25 25:8 he'll 19:22
33:3 further 34:12,16 good 7:17 43:13 25:13,17,19,23 hold 21:23 23:15
34:1 37:25 38:2 government 25:25 26:1,2 24:6
36:3 46:1 49:17 4:25 10:5 26:23 28:10,11 holding 16:6,7
40:10,13 51:13 12:11 14:11,24 28:12,14,15,21 25:4,9 40:15
45:7,17 furtherance 4:8 24:21 30:25 28:25 29:5,7 Honor 5:4 6:16
50:12 4:16 5:6,14,24 31:23 33:24,25 29:13,15 30:5 6:20 9:13
42:21 43:3,4,6 36:6,16 43:12 31:7,7,12,13 24:22 27:2,17
36:7,8 43:17,18 44:21 43:22,22 44:1 31:14,14 37:14 27:22 28:18
45:15 45:4 50:10,13 44:19,20 45:2 37:20,22 38:13 29:24 31:17
7:22 9:5,6 46:1 47:18,22 40:16 41:1,7,9 34:11 35:14
15:3 G 47:25 48:12,19 41:12,16 42:23 37:6,16,24
23:6 G 3:1 48:24 43:14 46:2,6 38:10 39:19
33:24 general 1:18 government's 46:11,12,13,18 40:15 41:7,20
48:1 13:21 12:2 33:10 47:6,7,12,13 42:14 43:11
36:18 6:18 40:10 48:5 house 19:25
16:8 4:6,19 8:22 9:9 3:17 6:25 7:1 7:16 human 15:18,18
35:6 12:10,16 13:6 9:24 guy 10:1 16:11 15:21
15:17 23:8 grant 9:13 16:22 25:8 36:21 humble 19:5
40:2 instant 14:6 11:7 Kennedy 19:10 leave 46:5
instantaneously jury 24:22 19:14,24 20:13 legitimately 5:8
Justice 1:18 3:3 24:9,18 29:4 let's 5:16,21,21
50:23 8:11,22 9:9 kinds 25:1 47:24 21:25 25:5
43:14 12:7 15:6,11 11:22,25 12:10 32:23 36:14,18 11:10
35:4,8,9,11,15 15:17 16:3 42:15,21 44:13 limit 47:16
intending 8:7 17:25 18:3,11 51:8 linguistic 21:5
intent 33:5 20:13,20 21:4 Koch 1:15 2:3,8 36:17,24 37:1
intentions 20:7 22:14,17,20 5:4,16 6:1,7,11 linguistically
interpret 35:14 24:18 25:7,17 9:4,13 10:10 linguistics 22:11
49:8 50:25 27:4,15,19 12:1,10,15,18 lists 35:24
33:1 interpreting 7:2 29:11,17,21 17:24 18:2,8 23:25,25 24:1
32:22 30:3,12,19,23 18:13 19:1,3 24:10
47:5 32:3,3,15 20:17,23 21:20 located 46:18
47:6 25:7 31:24 34:2,6 35:3,20 23:3,11 24:5 47:12
36:2 17:21,25 18:4 41:22,25 42:7 look 7:15 10:25
45:16,20 issues 49:2 42:10,19 43:2 L 22:25 23:17
49:1 item 24:17 26:17 44:6,15,22 La 1:15 47:22
37:2 40:16 47:3,9,10,15 10:25,25 12:8 looking 8:15
J 49:6,12,18 largely 40:24 looks 17:18
jewel 13:20 Laughter 19:9
24:16 45:24 needs 13:3 29:13 offered 19:22 panel 40:21
31:11,17 medium 26:18 negotiate 28:19 officer 20:24 paper 27:6
37:8,25 38:6 neighborhood Okay 5:22 pardon 16:5
44:20 40:3,5,17 45:7 never 23:22 37:4 once 30:24 43:3 part 12:13 17:20
50:22 nevertheless one's 12:8 30:25 21:9 41:13
26:8,9,11 mention 14:12 new 42:18 44:24 50:11
merely 25:3 non 43:19 open 48:23 particular 4:10
method 25:15 nonuse 18:1 operative 41:8 21:2 28:18,20
metro 29:10 nonweapon 16:9 opinion 16:15 42:5 44:24
30:8,16 MICHAEL 1:3 17:16,19,20,22 17:14,16 40:24 50:20
31:16,20 mind 21:10 18:5,5,7,10,20 41:3 46:10 particularly
32:10,18 minute 30:20 19:2 opponent 35:5 35:17
34:4 49:19 nonweapons 50:22 parties 5:17
35:13,21 misstatement 16:17 opposed 30:14 9:16 10:13
31:6,12 non-weapon opposition 11:8 16:10
39:1 money 5:20 21:1 14:18,21,23 42:16 38:18 39:4,25
40:4 24:2 27:7 normal 40:2 oral 1:11 2:2 3:7 41:9
41:6,20 37:18 normally 30:11 26:9 party 8:20 9:15
42:13,25 money-launde... 36:12 39:23 order 23:4 29:5 18:24 20:21,22
44:11,18 5:18 number 50:7 31:6,12 45:22 24:15 41:11
46:14,20 morning 3:4 ordinary 3:15 passes 37:20
mouths 21:23 O 7:4 passive 12:21
49:11 Muscarello O 2:1 3:1 originally 8:7 15:15 18:1
25:20 obtain 31:12 ought 50:2 pattern 40:21
13:10 N obviously 9:14 overrule 23:4 patterns 25:12
25:21 N 2:1,1 3:1 16:1 49:24 pay 10:3 20:21
24:3 27:4 narrowed 13:17 occur 6:24 18:23 23:9 37:14 41:1,1
28:6 30:6 narrows 4:20 occurred 46:8 overturn 22:23 payment 7:12
39:15 natural 6:18 occurs 35:19 overwhelming 19:12 43:15
43:8 12:3 28:6,9 October 1:9 10:22 pays 7:10
47:4 38:15 40:9,25 offense 4:9 ownership peeople 43:23
16:15 50:18 16:21,24 17:10 O'Connor 47:10 21:7
36:5 necessarily 4:16 33:25 34:1 O'Connor's penalties 10:18
42:4 15:4 35:4 35:23 38:8 40:24 penalty 7:18,19
necessary 23:3 offenses 14:17 P people 12:22
43:24 45:13,25 47:22 16:16,18,20,22 pulled 36:21 reading 12:8
51:2 17:3 51:4 pulls 36:19 13:19 33:16,19
49:9 pointed 31:5 predicates 17:15 punishable 11:4 36:4,6 45:14
8:8,9 20:24 26:3 13:13 14:10 purely 34:24 41:4 51:1
10:4,6,8 policy 22:8,20 23:13,13 purpose 9:22 reason 7:17 8:23
Ponce 33:8 presents 7:25 12:6 21:6,18 31:3
29:12,13 position 20:4,8 pressing 31:1 pursuant 34:9 46:3 48:7
23:14 38:20 prevail 39:4 pursue 44:13 reasonable
36:7 39:4 41:21 principal 3:14 put 19:25 22:17 50:25
38:25 possess 8:20 11:5,15 33:23 27:23 reasons 3:14
40:9 14:6 51:6,8,9 48:10 puts 24:19 36:14 51:10
45:19,21 possessed 41:16 principle 26:17 putting 25:4 REBUTTAL
51:6 43:17 50:12 principles 50:4 2:7 49:20
2:4,9 3:8 4:3,4,7,8,13,16 prong 43:23 question 4:15,19 31:8,9,14,23
26:13 5:10 6:15,22 45:12 4:24 5:2,8 6:24 33:1,2,3,4,4,13
27:1 11:14 13:24,25 proper 3:17 7:1 10:11 34:14,21,22,24
31:2 14:1,4 36:13 properly 43:23 11:11,21 12:12 34:25 35:1,10
49:21,25 41:19,23 42:9 44:12 45:8 13:3,4 16:8 37:7 38:3
36:4 43:4,6,9,18 43:22 26:22 40:11 receive 3:19
44:21 45:4 prosecution 42:16 19:11 20:15
48:10,20 50:10 prosecutors 26:6 42:15 36:2 45:20
33:18 possibly 31:3 prospective quite 40:11 received 24:9
potentially 9:15 proves 43:25 raise 13:9 23:24 40:12
14:4,5 49:7 15:4 34:9 rational 45:23 7:12,14 10:1,2
19:21 practically 45:24 rationale 31:4 42:23
25:22 10:23 provisions 31:9 39:21 40:14 recipient 16:13
31:1 34:5 precedents 4:20 32:24 33:9,10 reach 34:8 35:9
43:9 predicate 14:17 33:17 reached 16:14 recognize 16:6
45:4,9 14:21 15:7 public 40:19 read 11:13 recognizing 5:5
49:1
18:14 21:9,10 scene 19:16 shot 6:9 37:22 46:4 47:9,10
rising 21:24 Second 3:20 16:11 Solicitor 1:17
9:10,14 24:4 section 3:14 7:2 28:18 32:21 15:18 24:2
27:13,25 29:21 30:3 see 12:19,22 significance 26:21 27:4
37:9 34:6 37:19 21:13 39:14 42:17 44:7,24 28:2 30:12,19
45:8 38:7 39:13 seen 11:17 silently 24:24 30:23
40:1,8 44:6,15 sell 20:11 28:13 simple 28:25 speaking 32:15
49:8 role 46:25 51:7 simply 4:12 35:7 specifically
ruling 21:10 selling 8:23 22:12 standpoint 6:8
sacrifice 12:6 20:2 22:8 32:5 26:16 43:14 State 33:4
41:5 saying 12:11 sentence 28:11 situations 31:15 31:18
36:25 31:18 37:20 41:2 Smith 7:3 8:14 15:8 39:6,23
38:17 44:8 separate 48:5 8:22 13:8 statute 3:21 4:6
2:6 26:10 19:24 24:7,19 sets 35:17 15:23,25 16:4 10:20,21 11:6
38:1 17:8,21,25 Seventh 48:22 17:12,13,21 13:18 14:14
19:4 22:2,7,10 severe 10:18 18:18,24 22:23 21:2,8,12
50:8 34:2 35:3,20 shoot 8:9 9:3 33:1,2 34:15 39:6,9,12 40:6
50:20 suppose 22:3 20:1,9,10 21:6 10:12 11:9 16:10 25:12,12
24:9 29:4 21:15,18 22:9 12:13,17,22,23 31:15 32:10
50:16 sure 4:18 20:3 24:25 27:17 18:25 19:17 49:1
50:4 surely 39:9 30:16,16,22 22:25 23:23 typical 25:15
system 28:7 29:9 37:5,6,17 28:9,10,18 ultimately 5:14
32:3,15 29:10 39:13,19,20 29:5 30:10,15 6:13 14:1 22:6
46:8,16 40:14 41:6 32:5,22 38:5,8 23:17 34:25
47:3 T 42:25 43:13,18 39:17 41:14,17 48:3
51:7 taken 47:17 thought 7:5 46:17 13:18
50:5 30:19 35:18 46:18 20:25
27:14,16,20 threat 24:15 translate 14:25 10:12 47:8
team 36:19,20 time 42:23 45:16 26:22 44:7
14:22 16:15 29:10 trigger 36:20,21 unduly 20:14
22:4 35:1 totally 27:6 trunk 23:19 51:11
49:18,22 51:14 30:8 40:16 47:12 39:6,23
42:20 trafficking 15:9 Tuesday 1:9 25:24
9:15,24 47:5 30:1 37:9 25:2 43:7 37:7
13:5 14:7 think 4:15 5:8 38:12 39:7 47:13 urging 23:9
45:23 6:14,17 7:17 45:8 turned 43:15 usage 10:20,20
7:21 8:10,15 transaction 4:14 turning 47:10 12:5
12:23 13:2,11 7:16,16,24 8:7 9:16 10:13 3:16,20,22 4:5
8:14 V 33:23 2
v 1:5 3:4,22 7:5 weakens 40:2 2 11:15,20
13:1 verbs 45:19 weapon 14:18 2(b) 10:8,25
versus 15:12,15 17:22 29:13,23 11:25
17:22 18:1,1,5 50:19 2-A 36:1
15:22 viewed 38:18 weapons 18:9 20 48:5
16:9,12 violate 21:12 29:18 41:11 2007 1:9
violation 39:9 went 18:16 26 2:6
18:5 39:11 we'll 3:3 21:1
violence 8:16 we're 5:3 12:4 3
23:15 35:15 18:20 3 2:4 33:9,18
37:21,22 we've 36:16 35:14,16
23:2 whipsaw 22:18
24:7,16 W willfully 11:2 4
26:17 wait 37:12 45:21 willing 5:22 6:19 4 49:19
27:1 want 7:17 21:6 word 3:13,15 49 2:9
28:5 22:17,23 39:18 12:20 23:2
29:8 42:8 30:11 32:23,25 5
30:11,24 wanted 14:12 34:14 37:12,15 5-year 7:18
31:10,13 20:18,24 22:21 40:25
32:23,25 46:4 47:16 words 9:22 12:5
34:14 19:21 22:14 8a 33:22
37:2,7 Washington 1:8 32:20 34:19 9
1:18 38:25 50:17 9 1:9 15:1 51:3
wasn't 15:24 world 47:25 922 35:22
38:14 16:3 18:6 worried 8:6 922(d) 44:4
39:6,23 19:15 41:22 wouldn't 21:6 922(d)(4) 45:13
42:9 48:25 29:21 31:11 922(j) 51:5,8
41:5 Watson 1:3 3:4 35:11 37:23 922(n) 35:25,25
42:2,4 13:2,15,25 924 10:25 35:22
46:2,10 15:15,19 18:8 X
48:16,18 19:11 23:21 14:15 15:8
25:1,23,25 26:20 48:16
0
41:15 924(c)(1) 3:14
1:5 3:4 7:3 13:13,20
15:9,12 way 3:17 4:21 1 14:17,22 15:3
17:16 14:17 15:1 15:5 31:9
33:8,9,22,22
24:14 16:13,20,24 32:25 33:7
29:9 17:10 18:15 51:3,5
1:13
37:17,20 27:6,14,16,20 10-A 35:16,22 924(D)'s 32:24
28:6,6,13 29:9 10:05 3:2 924(D)(1) 33:23
34:7 35:14 35:23
21:12
11:20 ways 12:20 11:20
21:12 1988 42:11
