IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JOHN FRANCIS FRY, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-5247
CHERYL K. PLILER, WARDEN. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 20, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
VICTOR S. HALTOM, ESQ., Sacramento, Cal.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
ROSS C. MOODY, ESQ., Deputy Attorney General, San
Francisco, Cal.; on behalf of Respondent.
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
VICTOR S. HALTOM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ROSS C. MOODY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.
On behalf of United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting Respondent 41
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
VICTOR S. HALTOM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in case 06-5247, Fry versus Pliler.
Mr. Haltom.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF VICTOR S. HALTOM
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. HALTOM: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The constitutional error that occurred in
Mr. Fry's third trial is the type of error that can
result in a conviction of an innocent person.
Notwithstanding the nature of the error that occurred in
Mr. Fry's trial, no court has reviewed the effect of
that error or evaluated the effect of that error under
the constitutionally mandated Chapman standard.
Mr. Fry's position is simply that he is
entitled to one bite at the Chapman apple. In the
California Court of Appeals, that State appellate court
should have, but did not, rectify the constitutional
trial error that occurred in this case. Had that court
complied with this Court's precedent, that court would
have first identified the constitutional error that
occurred at trial, namely the chambers error, and
second, reviewed the effect of that error, assessed the
effect of that error under the Chapman test.
The failure of that court to do so, the
unreasonable decision-making of that court, relegated
Mr. Fry to seeking relief in Federal habeas proceedings.
It scarcely seems reasonable --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose he could have
come here on direct.
MR. HALTOM: He could have, Your Honor,
however, he didn't have the right to counsel to come
following his appeal to the State appellate court, and
then after the denial of his petition, it would be a
discretionary review in the California Supreme Court, he
no longer had the right to counsel.
And the fact of the matter is if he had
filed a petition for writ of certiorari following that,
it would have effectively been asking at that stage for
a type of error correction.
It scarcely seems logical that the scope of
the remedy to which Mr. Fry is entitled for the
constitutional violation that he suffered, that that
should be curtailed based upon simply the unreasonable
decision-making of the State appellate court in the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if we're talking
about what -- where is the logic in the result that I
believe you're position produces, which is that a
prisoner who loses in the State court on harmlessness
grounds, because the State court finds it's harmless,
obtains no habeas relief in Federal court unless the
error actually prejudiced him. Whereas if the State
court never reached the harmlessness ground, and erred
on -- or ruled on whether the violation occurred,
whether there was any constitutional violation, then he
would obtain relief if there is merely a reasonable
probability of harm.
Now, you know, why would there -- what does
he care whether -- whether the error below consisted in
an erroneous harmlessness determination or an erroneous
determination that there was no violation? Why should
there be a different standard of review between the two?
MR. HALTOM: Justice Scalia, that's the
point raised in the Solicitor General's amicus brief
here. And in Mr. Fry's case, what happened was that
there was a harmless error analysis conducted, albeit
truncated, by the State appellate court. But it was not
a Chapman analysis. And that failure of the State
appellate court to engage in a Chapman analysis is
contrary to this Court's precedent. It ignores Chapman,
it also would be an attack on --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's assume another
violation, the court erroneously determines --
erroneously -- that there was no constitutional
violation at all. Its error is not with regard to the
harmlessness, but with regard to whether there was a
constitutional violation. Why should there be one
standard of review for one error and a different
standard of review for the other, regardless of whether
the State court conducted Chapman or not?
MR. HALTOM: I don't know that necessarily
there has to be one standard of review for the other --
for one or the other, Your Honor. Our position in this
case is simply following the logic of this Court's
decision in Mitchell versus Esparza, that this Court or
any Federal habeas court needs to consider what the
State appellate court did. You cannot divorce -- there
is the underlying constitutional violation that occurred
in Mr. Fry's trial. Then that error is compounded when
a State appellate court fails to assess the effect of
that error under the Chapman standard.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You could say the same
thing when the State court has erroneously determined
that there was no violation.
In that case, you apply the Kotteakos
standard. I just don't understand the rationale of
applying a higher standard to the other error.
MR. HALTOM: Well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the State court
didn't find that there was error. I thought the State
court said, this was cumulative, I'm not going to let it
in.
MR. HALTOM: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It wasn't until we got
into the Federal court that there was an error found.
As far as the State was concerned, there was no reason
to engage in any kind of harmless error review, Chapman
or not, because there was no error.
MR. HALTOM: That's correct. That's in
pages 94 to 97 of the joint appendix. The State
appellate court concluded there was no error as a matter
of State law in this case. The court also concluded
that there was no constitutional error.
Then in a footnote, footnote 17 on page 97
of the Joint Appendix, the State appellate court stated
in the alternative, effectively, there was no prejudice
that Mr. Fry possibly could have suffered in this case.
However, in making that alternative holding, the State
appellate court, the California court, was applying
what's known as the Watson standard, which as this Court
has repeatedly recognized, is the functional equivalent
of the Kotteakos type standard.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it is that
determination that you are objecting to here. The
harmlessness determination.
MR. HALTOM: I am, Your Honor. Obviously,
we are objecting to the State court's finding of no
underlying substantive constitutional violation, as well
as the State court's determination that there was no --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But for the former, you are
perfectly content with our applying Kotteakos. And for
the latter, however, you say we have to apply Chapman.
I just don't see the logic of that.
MR. HALTOM: Well, first of all, this case,
since it has now been determined in the Federal courts
that there was an underlying constitutional violation,
does not present that question. We do -- and I
understand the position that you are raising,
Justice Scalia, that there is a potential split in the
logic there. I don't think the Court has to resolve
that here.
Some of the lower Federal courts have
determined that now, in light of AEDPA, the Brecht
standard has been completely supplanted. Some courts
have construed this Court's decision in Mitchell versus
is Esparza to lead to that conclusion. And that may
very well be the case. However, I don't think the Court
needs to ultimately address that proposition in this
case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: As I read the
Court's opinion in Brecht, the Brecht standard on
harmlessness is based on the structural consideration
that your under collateral review at that point, rather
than under direct review. You would apply a different
harmlessness standard that doesn't seem to take into
account the fact that it's collateral review rather than
direct.
MR. HALTOM: Certainly, Mr. Chief Justice,
collateral review, as this Court pointed out in Brecht,
can result in a more deferential standard of harmless
error inquiry. The -- those considerations that led
this Court in Brecht to adopt Kotteakos rather than
Chapman apply across-the-board in all habeas cases.
However, a central theme of the Brecht
decision was that there have been Chapman analysis
conducted by the State appellate judiciary --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I guess that's
where maybe we -- is the subject of debate, whether the
central theme in Brecht was, this is collateral review,
and that calls for a different standard, or whether the
central theme was Chapman review had been undertaken,
and therefore, that calls for a different standard.
I'm not sure I agree with you that the
latter is the case.
MR. HALTOM: I agree that it could be -- it
is a debatable point. But the -- to ignore the
circumstance that this Court stressed, I think
undoubtedly stressed in Brecht that there had been that
State appellate review is to basically divorce the
holding in Brecht from the factual context in which that
case -- or out of which that case arose.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The dissenters certainly
thought that that was the consequence, the dissenters in
Brecht. They said that Kotteakos would apply even where
the State court has found that "no violation has
occurred."
MR. HALTOM: That's true, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: In other words, never
approached the harmlessness thing. That's what the
dissenters thought.
MR. HALTOM: The dissenters thought that the
import of Brecht was that it was going to apply
across-the-board in Federal habeas --
JUSTICE BREYER: And I don't think the
majority said the contrary. I mean, I wrote it. I
mean, I don't know -- what counts is what I wrote, not
what I thought. But if you read it, I don't think it
decides this question.
What I wonder, though, is why does the --
how does this case present the issue you want to argue?
I'm -- Justice Ginsburg made me wonder about that. As I
understand it, the trial court said, I'm not going to
let this witness testify, it is cumulative. All right.
And then the appeals court said, well, that wasn't a
mistake. And one reason it wasn't a mistake is that
this witness added nothing. There could no possible
prejudice, says the trial court, when he excluded that
person. That means it was cumulative, that means it did
nothing, and that was the appeals court. So the appeals
court finds no error.
Now, we get over to the Federal court. And
they say, oh, no, this witness added a lot. Well, they
couldn't have thought this witness added a lot to the
point where the constitution is violated unless they
disagreed with that decision of making no possible
difference. Very well. We disagree, send it back. End
of case.
Now, where does it raise all this stuff
about harmless error and -- I mean, when I -- it is hard
for me to get my mind around this issue, because it's so
complicated. How does this case raise it?
MR. HALTOM: Well, I suppose, Your Honor,
because of the fact that the State appellate court
didn't simply state, we find no error, and leave it at
that, but rather, the State appellate court also raised
the point that, in a footnote, in a truncated manner,
that there is no possible --
JUSTICE BREYER: Was that as a reason for
there not being error? Or was it in the context of
saying, well, even if there was a mistake, there was no
possible prejudice. What does the footnote mean, in
your opinion? The second?
MR. HALTOM: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the footnote
number?
MR. HALTOM: It's footnote 17.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. I'll read it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Page what?
MR. HALTOM: It's 97 in the Joint Appendix,
Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you.
JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you. Very helpful.
The other thing which I brought up, so I might as well
get both my questions out, is that years ago I read a
decision by Judge Leventhal that made a big impression
on me. And he was a very good judge. It's in a
different context, it's the same problem.
He said, I originally thought this was the
case dreamed of by law professors, a case where I could
conscientiously say, although I consider the findings
clearly erroneous, so I'd reverse if it were a judge's
decision, nonetheless, there is support and substantial
evidence. And therefore, I affirm it, because it comes
from an agency.
But when I think about it, I don't think
there's substantial evidence either. Okay. In other
words, has there ever been a case in the history of
mankind where you think a judge has actually thought to
himself, after reviewing the record, oh, I think that
this is harmless, so I'll affirm. But I don't think
it's harmless beyond a reasonable doubt, so I'll
reverse.
I mean, I find it very difficult to get
myself in that state of mind, where I think such a thing
is possible.
MR. HALTOM: I agree with you, Your Honor.
It's angels on the pin of a needle, I guess is the
phrase here, and this case may be a case where the
difference between Chapman and Brecht could be of
consequence. If you'd look at the district court's
treatment of this case, at the district court level the
court stated: "Mr. Fry comes close to demonstrating
actionable error," and that court is applying the Brecht
standard. The district court states: "I cannot rule
out prejudice in this case." So seemingly had that
court applied Chapman, Mr. Fry would have prevailed in
the district court.
Likewise, in the Ninth Circuit we have the
dissenting justice concluding that there is prejudice
even under the Brecht standard, and then we have the
panel majority in ruling against Mr. Fry on the
prejudice issue stating that had Pamela Maples'
testimony been admitted that would have substantially
bolstered Mr. Fry's claim of independence. That
statement seems inconsistent with the finding that it is
harmless error under Brecht; and even if it's not
inconsistent it seems that had that court been applying
the Chapman standard, that court would have ruled in
Mr. Fry's --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If I could come back to,
may I ask this question: Is part of your argument that
even under the Brecht standard it was not harmless?
MR. HALTOM: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: This is a case, am I
correct, where there were two, two hung juries and then
a five-week deliberation in this case? And there was a
harmless -- and the testimony of Maples was she had seen
a guy who didn't fit the description do the killing?
MR. HALTOM: Correct, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is that in the
question presented?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It says that if the Brecht
standard applies, does the Petitioner or the State bear
the burden? I guess that's the narrower question, who
has the burden.
MR. HALTOM: Well, the Respondent has
essentially conceded that under O'Neal that they bear
the risk of non-persuasion.
JUSTICE BREYER: But O'Neal, I thought
O'Neal just says that this word "burden of proof" is out
of place when you talk about an appellate judge reading
the record.
MR. HALTOM: I think that that was what the
holding in the majority opinion was, but I think, as
Justice Thomas pointed out in his dissenting opinion,
the effect of that is to allocate the risk of
non-persuasion to the State. And so I think that
that's -- I could be wrong, but it seems to me a
semantic point.
And to Justice Stevens' question, as you
pointed out in your concurrence in Brecht, the Kotteakos
standard which this court adopted in Brecht is an
exacting standard. And in applying that standard, if
you'd look at this case, the Court's decisions,
Sullivan, Kotteakos, say that the focus has to be on the
jury. Here we have a jury in the third trial that
deliberated for 23 court days after 29 court days --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're now arguing
that under Brecht this should not have been harmless; is
that the point you're making?
MR. HALTOM: Yes, Your Honor.
THE COURT: Okay. Now, I didn't hear the
answer to my question. I'm not sure that is in the
question that you presented and on which we granted
cert. It says which standard applies, who bears the
burden. I don't see anything saying is this -- was it
erroneous to conclude that this was harmless under
Brecht.
MR. HALTOM: Well, I believe, number one,
does it matter which standard applies as part of the
question presented? Does it matter which harmless error
standard is implied? My answer to that is no, because
Mr. Fry prevails under either Brecht or Chapman.
And this Court could in this case simply
decide this case on that very narrow question, like many
court do where this issue is raised, this intellectually
challenging issue of what should a habeas court apply,
Brecht or Chapman, when there has been no Chapman
analysis in the State court or when there has been an
objectively unreasonable Chapman analysis in the State
court. Most courts confronted with that issue say, we
don't need to decide the question here because either
the error was plainly harmless under both of those
standards or plainly not harmless under both of these
standards. And I simply recounted the history of the
litigation below in the Federal courts to point out that
this could be a case where that make a difference. It
seems like --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The trouble with reading
that second question that way is that, you know, it
follows from your first question, which speaks in the
generality of cases. It's not speaking to this case.
Your first question presented is, if constitutional
error in a State trial is not recognized by the
judiciary until the case ends up in Federal court, is
the prejudicial impact assessed under the standard set
forth in Chapman or in Brecht? That's the first
question. Very generalized.
Second question: Does it matter which
harmless-error standard is employed? I didn't take that
to mean does it matter in this case which of the two. I
thought it meant, you know, is there any difference
between the two standards? Don't you think that's fair
reading of it.
MR. HALTOM: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You think it means, does it
matter in this case which harmless -- you think that
second sentence means would, would the defendant be
entitled to reversal of the conviction no matter which
harmless error standard is employed? You think that's
what it means?
MR. HALTOM: I think that that is the import
of that portion of the question.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that a question on
which we would be likely to grant cert?
MR. HALTOM: Perhaps not if that was the
only question in and of itself, but perhaps so because,
as I indicated before, as Justice Stevens stressed in
his concurring opinion in Brecht, the Kotteakos standard
is a demanding standard. And look at this case. If the
error in this case can be deemed harmless under any
standard, then what cannot? What is prejudice when
you're looking at the jury and when you have a jury
where nine days into the deliberations at least five of
them voted that Mr. Fry was not guilty. They told the
judge that they were at an impasse. This jury struggled
mightily with this evidence.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would you help me with one
thing I'm not terribly clear about, though. Is it clear
which -- what side the magistrate thought had the burden
of persuasion?
MR. HALTOM: It is not, and it seems as
though, looking at the language that the magistrate
judge utilized in his findings and recommendations, that
he was looking to me, to Mr. Fry, to meet that burden.
And I quoted his language in my brief and to the Ninth
Circuit and I argued to the Ninth Circuit that the
burden of persuasion had been improperly allocated to
Mr. Fry. However, that issue was simply not addressed
in the Ninth Circuit's opinion.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Does your opponent now
concede that the State has the burden?
MR. HALTOM: Yes, Respondent concedes that
their burden -- that it's their burden --
JUSTICE BREYER: How do they say that after
I thought I wrote an opinion for the majority of the
Court which said this concept is not applicable in --
when you're reviewing a record for harmless error. It's
not a question of presenting evidence. What I think it
said is that it's not a question of presentation of
evidence. In such a case, we think it's conceptually
clear for the judge to ask directly, do I the judge
think that the error substantially influenced the
judge's -- the jury's decision? Now, maybe I was wrong,
but I think there was a majority of the Court that
agreed with it.
MR. HALTOM: Yes, Your Honor. And I think
your point, as I understood it, in O'Neal was that it
analytically does not make sense --
JUSTICE BREYER: To talk about burdens of
proof?
MR. HALTOM: -- when the appellate court is
--
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. But that's my basic
question in this case and it's a serious question.
Suppose I think, which I do think, that I as a judge can
conscientiously review a record and decide for myself
whether I think this error of the judge was harmless,
and if I really try I can bring myself to understand
this question. Regardless of what I think, could
another judge, say a State judge, reasonably have
thought the opposite? I can do that mentally.
You try to get me to make more fine
distinctions than that, I cannot do it. I can't. I'm
sorry. I admit it.
Now, if that's the state of mind that I can
get myself into -- and I believe that's true of many
judges -- how do I write words that are realistic in
this area?
MR. HALTOM: I think that that's a question,
Your Honor, that this court has struggled with. As
Justice Scalia pointed out in his concurring opinion in
Dominguez Benitez, that we're talking about with these
harmless error standards ineffable gradations of
probability that are beyond even the judicial mind to
grasp. But I think if we just tie it to the facts of
this case, I think that in the explanation you just gave
that there is no reasonable judge who could look at this
case and conclude --
JUSTICE ALITO: There are many situations in
which an appellate court has to apply a legal standard
to facts in criminal cases and civil cases. In a
criminal case, an issue on appeal could be whether
there's sufficient evidence to support the verdict. Do
you think there's a burden of persuasion on appeal on
all of those issues?
MR. HALTOM: With respect to a standard
sufficiency analysis, no, Justice Alito. It's just a
question for the appellate judge to discern, was there
sufficient evidence in the record reviewing the evidence
in the light most favorable to the prosecution.
JUSTICE ALITO: What's the difference
between that and applying any harmless error standard?
It's exactly the same kind of analysis. It's a
different legal test, but you're applying, you're
applying the law to facts.
MR. HALTOM: I agree. And I don't quarrel
at all with the way that the court described -- said
that looking at the prejudice inquiry or a harmless
error inquiry in the O'Neal case, that it doesn't fit to
look at it in terms of the allocation of burden. I
don't think that this case ultimately turns on that,
except to the extent that the magistrate judge when he
wrote his finding and recommendations that were adopted
by the district court judge did state that he was
looking to Mr. Fry to make the sufficient showing --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you talking about
what's on the bottom of page 181 of the joint appendix?
That was the only place that I found where the
magistrate expressed a view on this. It reads: "The
court does not find that there has been" -- "the court
does find that there has been an insufficient showing.
So that "insufficient showing" means showing by the
Petitioner." Is that what you're relying on?
MR. HALTOM: Yes. That's exactly what I'm
relying on, Your Honor.
So, going back to specifically the facts of
this case, this Court could, as I indicated earlier,
without regard to the thorny Chapman versus Brecht
question, decide this case solely in terms of, under
Brecht, does Mr. Fry prevail; and we look at the nature
of the constitutional violation that occurred.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That wouldn't help
us resolve the conflict in the circuits between which
standard is applicable, though, right?
MR. HALTOM: No, it certainly would not,
Your Honor. And this Court may very well deem that to
be necessary. But I think also that this Court
fashioning a decision which is faithful to the
requirement that -- or the principle that Kotteakos is
an exacting standard, would also be an important
constitutional principle. In a case like this, where
there has been no Chapman review and where the Chapman
court stated that we need a rigorous harmless error
standard in order to safeguard convictions, safeguard
against erroneous convictions where there is a close
question of guilt or innocence, that hasn't happened in
this case and it would be appropriate for this Court to
fashion a rule or holding in this case that would ensure
that that happens.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that would put 2254
out of sync with 2255, where I understand if it's a
Federal conviction then it's always Brecht on
post-conviction relief?
MR. HALTOM: As I understand that question,
the Solicitor General pointed out in the introduction of
its amicus brief that there are some 2255 cases where
there's been an intervening change in the law which
could involve this question of Brecht versus Chapman.
And I've cited in my brief a district court case, United
States versus Monsanto, where the court concluded, in
accordance with the position that I'm advocating, that
it makes no sense for a reviewing court in a habeas
proceeding to apply the Brecht standard blindly without
regard to what was done in prior proceedings, but rather
there's no need for deference, where the -- the big
issue in Brecht, as I understand it, was this Court was
concerned about simply repeating a harmless error
analysis that the State court had already done; and
we're not asking this Court to do that in this case.
The same concern, Justice Ginsburg, holds
over in certain limited 2255 cases.
If I may save the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Haltom.
Mr. Moody.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROSS C. MOODY
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. MOODY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Federal habeas is limited in scope and
purpose. It is not a continuation of the appellate
process. Rather, it is an extraordinary remedy limited
by fundamental concepts of federalism, comity, and State
sovereignty. In Brecht, this court held that the
stringent Chapman standard was inappropriate for use on
collateral review. Instead, in order to strike a proper
balance between State and Federal interests, the actual
prejudice standard of substantial and injurious effect
on the verdict should be used in collateral cases.
Petitioner is asking for an exception to
this rule. He claims that if he did not receive Chapman
review in State court, he should receive it on Federal
habeas. That was not the rule in Brecht and it should
not be adopted by this Court here. The Brecht decision
did not state an exception based on the State standard
used. The key in Brecht was that appropriate balance
between the Federal Government and the State. This
Court has never treated cases where there was not a
state Chapman finding differently from other cases. It
applies Brecht throughout. In the Penry case and in the
O'Neal case there was no Chapman finding in state court,
yet this Court applied Brecht and made no comment about
that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said in your brief
that the remedy, if the Petitioner wants to assure he's
going to get Chapman review someplace, then he should
have sought cert -- direct review from the State court's
conviction. Did you say that?
MR. MOODY: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But realistically, the
likelihood that such a petition would be successful,
passing the problem that the Petitioner is not likely to
have a lawyer, does the likelihood that this Court would
grant cert on such a question is very slim.
MR. MOODY: I agree, the likelihood of the
cert grant in that circumstance is slim but it does not
change the fact that once you come to court under 2254,
you are asking for collateral review. And in collateral
review, it's inappropriate to apply the Chapman
standard.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose you could say
that of all the questions that go into habeas under
2254, that they could have brought up directly but the
chances are their being taken here are negligible?
MR. MOODY: I, I agree with that, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, if the
State court had conducted a Chapman review, erroneously,
how would that be reviewed under Federal habeas? You
would ask under AEDPA whether it was an unreasonable
application of Chapman?
MR. MOODY: Yes, Your Honor. First you
would ask if it was an unreasonable application of
Chapman. If you found that it was not, then the case is
over, there's no need to grant the writ. If you found
that it was, you would proceed and do a Brecht analysis.
And that's what we learned from --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That seems awfully
refined, doesn't it, to do two different analyses? Is
this an -- is this an unreasonable application of
Chapman? And then apply the Brecht standard after
determining that it was an unreasonable application of
Chapman?
MR. MOODY: I don't disagree. I'm merely
trying to make sense of the various decisions in this,
in this arena. There's some tension between the Esparza
decision and other decisions of the Court; and one has
to find a place for AEDPA standard. So we would not
object to simply an application of Brecht which is what
this Court has always done. But as far as it seems to
suggest there may be an interim step.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose we apply Brecht.
This is what I'm having to little trouble with but I'd
appreciate your commenting or straightening this out.
The Ninth Circuit holds two things according to the SG
in the briefs. He states them very well. The first is
let's look at this witness. The testimony was excluded.
Now the Ninth Circuit says that exclusion was
unreasonable of -- an unreasonable application of
clearly established Federal law, because that testimony
of the witness that was excluded was not only material,
it would have substantially bolstered the claim of
innocence. So that's their finding on the merits.
Then they go on to say, but the exclusion
was harmless.
How could both those things be true? How
could it be true that the reason that there was error in
excluding it was that the evidence is so important that
it substantially bolsters the claim of innocence?
That's one thing they say.
But the exclusion was harmless. I just fail
to understand how anyone could think both those things.
But maybe in the context of the case it was possible,
but that's what I'd appreciate your explaining.
MR. MOODY: I think that the explanation is
as follows. When you're analyzing the denial of a
defense type of evidence, a Chambers claim, you first
look to see how it fit into the defense. And that is
what they were doing. You're not looking at the entire
case. You're looking only at the defense.
And so in the sense that something is better
than nothing, adding a twelfth witness instead of eleven
may improve the defense case.
And yet nonetheless, when you move to the
next question, which is, was there a substantial and
injurious effect on the verdict in the case, and now
you're not just looking at the defense, you're looking
at everything that was available to the jury -- it may
be that there was still so much other evidence that it
could overcome whatever increase you received on the
defense.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why is it necessary for us
to try to reconcile those two statements? The Ninth
Circuit may well have been wrong in finding that there
was a violation at all, but we have to assume that, for
purposes of the question that's presented to us. So why
shouldn't we just analyze the harmless error question
independently of what they said about whether there was
a Chambers violation?
MR. MOODY: We would not object to that.
I'm trying to -- I'm trying to assist Justice Breyer in
that perceived imbalance between a finding of a
substance above and then a finding of harmless error
before.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, every time evidence is
excluded on the grounds that it is cumulative, or is the
equivalent of a 403 balancing in Federal Court, there's
not a constitutional error under Chambers and related
cases, is there?
MR. MOODY: Yes. We agree. That's
certainly the law of this Court. And in this, in --
well, let me move on. I'd like to make a couple of
other points.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I go just back to
Justice Breyer's question for a second?
MR. MOODY: Sure.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And I mean, I think your
answer to Justice Breyer was a very good answer as a, as
sort of a general statement. But in -- would you agree
that in this case, if we -- if we do proceed, number
one, to agree with you that Brecht is the standard, and
we then do proceed to apply Brecht here or to determine
whether Brecht was properly applied here, that in this
particular case, the, the record indicates that the case
was so close that there would have to be a finding of
harmful error, or at least it would be impossible to
find harmless error. Even applying Brecht clear.
And you know what I'm getting at. I mean,
five weeks of deliberation. The question after,
whatever it was, two weeks, and four ballots, and so on.
Obviously this -- this case was just to tottering on the
edge. So even if we, if we do get to the point of
applying Brecht, wouldn't it be impossible to say that
he's -- he gets no relief under Brecht?
MR. MOODY: No, I would disagree with that.
You've the sixth court to hear this case. The prior
five have all rejected his claim. And while --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But two or three of those
did it on an improper ground, that you agree with now,
don't you?
MR. MOODY: No, I don't agree with that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: For purposes of argument.
MR. MOODY: For purposes of argument I do.
The district court and the Ninth Circuit both applied
Brecht and found that this was not an error which --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was two to one in the
Ninth Circuit.
MR. MOODY: This is true.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Judge Rawlinson I think
said that using the Brecht standard, that there was
actual prejudice.
MR. MOODY: Yes, she did. There was a
dissent in the Ninth Circuit.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't this the -- I may
have it wrong -- but isn't this the case in which the
witness was unique not cumulative because she was the
only one who was completely disinterested.
MR. MOODY: No. I would disagree with that.
She's been characterized that way. But, and I want to
point out that, I would like to clarify the record in
response to your question, Justice Stevens. You asked
whether or not she saw another man commit the murder.
And counsel appeared to agree with you. That was not
her testimony. Her testimony was that she overheard
someone else confessing to murders that may or may not
have been these murders.
And the -- and this was a very long case.
This case lasted eleven weeks, it involved a hundred
witnesses. You can look at the opinions it produced in
state court and in the district court. They're each 100
pages long. It's not unreasonable to expect the jury to
take a long time to decide that case.
Now there are 25 court days of
deliberations --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Five, five weeks?
MR. MOODY: Five weeks, 25 court days, 24 of
which were taken up with read back. Several -- several
holidays. I mean if you want to go through and look at
it, now --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you know of any other
case in which the jury deliberated for five weeks?
MR. MOODY: I haven't attempted to find one.
It is a long deliberation.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm sure there's an example
somewhere, but I -- I practiced law for over 40 years,
and I never heard of it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: At what point, how many
weeks had gone by when they said they were hung?
MR. MOODY: I believe that was -- I keep,
I've been switching back and forth between calendar days
and court days. So forgive me. I believe that was on
the eighth court day. And at that point, when they
announced they were hung, they selected a new foreperson
and then rolled up their sleeves and went back in and
deliberated the case.
JUSTICE BREYER: So --
MR. MOODY: And after --
JUSTICE BREYER: Go ahead.
MR. MOODY: After they selected the new
foreperson, they asked for 15 read backs, including the
crucial evidence in the case. The ballistics experts.
They asked for that. They asked for the testimony of
the in-custody witness who heard the confession of
Mr. Fry. They asked for Mr. Fry's testimony.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Did they ask for a read
back of Mrs. Maples' testimony?
MR. MOODY: Well, Mrs. Maples' testimony was
not admitted. It was excluded.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Oh, that's right. Of
course.
MR. MOODY: But they did not --
significantly they did not ask for read back of the
witnesses who testified similarly to, to Ms. Maples.
The third party culpability case was basically not
credited by the jury. They did not a read back of those
witnesses.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, maybe, maybe you'd
end up --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, maybe a critical
witness was left out. That argues the other way, I
think.
MR. MOODY: I would encourage the Court to
carefully look at what Ms. Maples was going to say. If
you look in her own words, and I'm quoting: I was just
in and out of the room. I just listened to bits and
pieces of it. And that's at joint appendix 10. This,
this witness may have been Mr. Hurtz's cousin, and not
his ex-girlfriend, or his ex-girlfriend's mother, but
she did not have very much to say about this. She said
she didn't hear the beginning of the statement. She
could not tell you whether it was a serious discussion.
She was in and out of the room. She heard only bits and
pieces.
JUSTICE BREYER: But what she heard was that
they were going to kill, this other person was going to
kill a man and a woman, and it turned out that that was
the crime at issue.
MR. MOODY: With respect, that's not what
she heard.
JUSTICE BREYER: What did she hear?
MR. MOODY: What she heard was a statement
that he had killed a man and a woman. And this was not
immediately after the offense. This is 18 months after
the offense, this is not next day.
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you think -- do you
think, do you think I should do this? I'm still
looking, I'm worried about on the one hand, as you are,
having this Court announce too many six-part tests, and
having a lot of words and it becomes easy to make a
mistake for a judge and then you never finish a
proceeding. I'm worried about that, as are you.
MR. MOODY: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: At the same time, I think
what counts is what the judge does, the reviewing judge.
Not what -- quite what the test says.
So there has to be a conscientious effort to
decide, was there -- was it harmless? Could a
reasonable jurist in California have concluded the
opposite? Okay.
So maybe we should do it in this case. We
simply try ourselves to go through this record, make
that determination to show by example, rather than by
trying to find a form of words.
MR. MOODY: Well, you don't do it very
often. I understand that that's something you could do
if you wanted to. I think that this is just a classic
case where two courts applied the Brecht standard and
reached their conclusions and there's nothing really
remarkable about it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The third party
perpetrator that Maples was going to talk about
according to the prosecution's theory, was Hurtz or
Hearst?
MR. MOODY: Hurtz. Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And there -- there was a
link between Hurtz, there was an acquaintanceship
between Hurtz and the victim?
MR. MOODY: That's right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was that established in
other testimony or would that all have come out just
only through Maples?
MR. MOODY: Actually, I'm thinking about my
answer because I was thinking about Borelli. There were
three third party culpability, potential targets in this
case. And I believe that Hurtz, the testimony of
several of the witness who were admitted did testify of
a link between Cindy Bell and Hurtz.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Otherwise, I mean, they
couldn't have found it was cumulative if -- if that had
not been the case.
MR. MOODY: In order to -- I need to correct
the record on that as well. The trial judge did not
find that this was cumulative. He found a lack of
foundation. What happened was, was Ms. Maples was
offered as a witness --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But -- on appellate review
in California, they found it cumulative, didn't they?
MR. MOODY: The alternative prejudice
holding, the footnote 17, they said it would have been
cumulative.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right. Okay.
MR. MOODY: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And they -- they couldn't
have found that if there hadn't been some evidence on
Hurtz, apart from Maples?
MR. MOODY: Oh, that's right. Yes. There
was, and that's really my point. My point is that 11
third party culpability witnesses were allowed to
testify in this trial. And one was excluded.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How did Hurtz's name enter
into the trial?
MR. MOODY: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why did anybody mention
him?
MR. MOODY: Well, for one thing, he was
called to testify and asked if he killed these people.
Mr. Hurtz testified at this trial. The jury got to see
him, they got to look him in the eye, they got to hear
him on direct, they got to hear him on cross. And they
did not ask for a read back of that testimony.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And if Maples' testimony
had come in, I presume they could have cross-examined
him on the basis of Maples' testimony?
MR. MOODY: Well, he stated he never said he
killed these people. And he, he stated he'd never said
he killed a man and a woman in a car. So it -- it went
to what Maples would have said, and also --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did he say he'd killed
peoples otherwise, or at other times?
(Laughter.)
MR. MOODY: He also denied doing that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but then at that
point in time, Maples, Maples' conviction -- Maples'
testimony becomes, assuming there's a foundation,
becomes more relevant.
MR. MOODY: I would disagree, simply because
she says she didn't hear the conversation well enough to
really give her testimony any true probative value in
the case because she was in and out of the room. She
didn't hear the beginning. She didn't hear the end.
And when she's asked, was it a serious discussion, she
says, I don't know. So this could be -- this could be
something very different --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's classic going to
the weight of the evidence. That goes to the weight,
not the admissibility.
MR. MOODY: Ordinarily I would agree with
that. And if we knew, Your Honor, that he was speaking
about these killings, then certainly it would go to the
weight. But since he was speaking about killings that
she said she didn't know if they were in California, New
Jersey, she didn't know when they occurred, and
therefore -- in California we ask that before you
present third party culpability evidence you tie it to
this crime.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So we don't assume that
he's committed a whole lot of killings, I don't suppose?
MR. MOODY: Well, it's -- he may have
committed other killings, but if did not confess to
committing these killings then there's no probative
value to her testimony.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think the
question of the application of Brecht is included within
the questions presented?
MR. MOODY: No. I briefed it because I was
concerned that the Court might reach it, but I don't
think it is fairly presented.
The only other point that I wanted to make
is that if one accepts Petitioner's rule it will
basically swallow up the Brecht standard and return to a
near wholesale application of Chapman on collateral
review. As Tyson and Trigg pointed out, many, many
times Petitioners come to court and they have a case
where there was no finding of constitutional error in
State court and therefore no Chapman application, but
they're going to assert that in Federal court. And so
if in every one of those cases you apply Chapman, then
you really have reduced application of Brecht.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But on the other side,
State courts say, we don't have, we don't have to bother
in any case with Chapman because when it goes over into
the Federal court they're going to apply Brecht.
MR. MOODY: I don't think we should assume
that the State courts are going to do that. I think
that what -- it's sort of like what we said earlier in
the argument, Your Honor, where not every evidentiary
ruling is a constitutional violation. I would say most
of them are not. And this Court has not drawn a bright
line of exactly where that is. So in many cases, this
is just an erroneous exclusion of evidence at best. And
so, therefore, the State court would not be going to a
Chapman standard because it would not be finding error.
And with that, I'm prepared to submit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Millett?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS
CURIAE, SUPPORTING RESPONDENT
MS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The distinction between collateral review
and direct review is deeply rooted in the law, and what
Petitioner is asking is to have the standard of review
for harmlessness in collateral review become the same
standard as direct review whenever the courts on direct
review got Chapman wrong or unreasonably applied it.
That is the exact same argument Mr. Brecht made in this
Court. He got Chapman review. They cited Chapman.
They didn't cite it here. That's the only difference.
Mr. Brecht came to this Court and said they
unreasonably applied Chapman review and I should get it
again on habeas, and this Court said that there is a
deep difference, a deep distinction, between collateral
review and direct review and that distinction turns upon
the fundamental rule of habeas corpus, and that is not
to sit here as the sixth court on direct review of a
long record where difficult calls were made. It is to
correct fundamental miscarriages of justice, grievous
wrongs that have caused custody in violation of
constitutional --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask two questions
and then you can proceed. One, do you take a position
on who has the burden of persuasion? That's the first
question. And do you have an opinion on proper
application of Brecht in this case?
MS. MILLETT: If I can adopt
Justice Breyer's language from O'Neal and say that this
Court eschewed couching this discussion in terms of
burden of persuasion. We accept O'Neal's holding what
then there is equipoise, which did not what happened in
this case, the tie goes to --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you do agree if it
were in equipoise the State would have the burden?
MS. MILLETT: The tie would go to the
prisoner, yes. Were it in equipoise, because the State
would have the burden the State would lose. I don't
think that's what happened in this case. I think what
Justice Breyer, what this Court said O'Neal said is, the
way you articulated it, instead of burden of proof is
that it's a level of conviction on the part of the court
and what the judge will say in, what the court said in
O'Neal, is, do I think the error substantially
contributed to the jury's verdict? And that is
essentially what the court said here on 181 at the very
bottom when it said "The court doesn't find that there's
an insufficient showing" -- that's the same way of
saying I haven't been persuaded -- that the error
contributed to the verdict. So I don't think that this
case in any sense could turn upon, whether we call it
the burden of persuasion or the proper level of
conviction on the part of the court. This court was not
persuaded and that is all that matters. When the court
is not persuaded and not left in equipoise, the prisoner
loses.
The second question you asked was whether we
have a position on application of Brecht, and we do.
We've laid it out in our brief. We think that in no
sense does this record support the notion, support the
argument, that there was a substantial and injurious
effect when the twelfth out of eleven witnesses was
excluded, talking about third party culpability. And
that requires not just looking at what, in isolation,
what evidence was in there about Mr. Hurtz. There was I
think six or seven witnesses who said they heard him
either say he did it or he was there or he was involved.
But it requires looking at the whole record.
And there were -- the defense here was not a Hurtz
versus Fry. This was a case where the defense did an
excellent job. It was a well defended case, and threw
up a buffet of options for the jury, none of which it
bought on.
In the third trial you had what you didn't
had in the prior trials. You had ballistics evidence
that linked his gun to the crime. You have his own
admission, his own testimony, that he left the house
that night with the gun, with the bullets, and went out
in the truck that was seen at -- a truck of the same
type, that was seen at the crime scene.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I have the same problem
Justice Souter does, in all candor. The jury takes five
weeks to decide the case and there's a fairly
interesting bit of testimony that doesn't get in. And
to say to be totally satisfied it didn't have an
injurious effect on the deliberations is a close
question, I think.
MS. MILLETT: Well, two answers. If it's a
close question, if AEDPA and if Kotteakos and Brecht
mean anything, it's that the close calls go to the State
and are not overturned by the sixth court on review.
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but an equally divided
call goes the other way.
MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE STEVENS: If it's not just a close
call, but if it's equal, it goes the other way.
MS. MILLETT: It is, and no one has thought
this was equal. The two courts -- the three courts, the
California Court of Appeals also said in any event
there's no possible prejudice.
Now, how they could say no possible
prejudice under a State standard and still say, ah, but
it would have affected the verdict under Chapman, is not
something I'm able to understand. So I think you have
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: Neither am I. But I draw a
different conclusion from it from the one you're
drawing.
MS. MILLETT: I guess I misunderstand your
point, because I think when the court said there's no
possible prejudice --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I mean, I cannot accept the
State -- the conclusion that there was no possible
prejudice, on the premises that Justice Stevens a moment
ago and I a moment before sort of put out. I just do
not find that a reasonable conclusion.
MS. MILLETT: Well, again, even if the Court
thinks there may have been some chance, may have been --
you know -- relevant testimony -- this Court can well
disagree and can conclude that this was abuse of
discretion. If it were Federal Rule of Evidence 403,
you could decide this was a an abuse of discretion.
Whether it was unconstitutional, so clearly
unconstitutional as to merit under AEDPA and under
Brecht reversal of the conviction 12 years after the
fact --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the AEDPA
question was out of it because that hasn't been -- there
was no cross-appeal on that question. I thought it was
a given, a given in this case, that the California
courts did not apply or unreasonably applied clearly
established Federal law.
I didn't think that was an issue in the
case. I think we took it on the assumption that it was
such an error.
MS. MILLETT: Again, the Respondents in this
case have not conceded constitutional error, and in
their brief they repeat that. And I think there's a
question whether a court should --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not raised here.
There was no cross-appeal from that.
MS. MILLETT: Well, a Respondent is entitled
to defend on any ground supported by the record. But
even assuming that, we'll assume the error, assumes that
there was an error and one assumes that it was -- which
is hard for me to get to, but one assumes it was clearly
unconstitutional in this close call, the type of call
that's made hundreds of times in every trial, balancing
this, and the combination of lack of foundation and
cumulativeness. It's hard for me to understand when
that rises to the level of unconstitutionality.
But if we assume that it did, you have the
two courts that applied the Brecht standard here. And
the district court decision here is nearly 100 pages
long. It's a very careful, methodical analysis.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's because there were
many, many issues raised.
MS. MILLETT: There's many issues, but also
it was being careful and it was being very methodical.
And it went through this and it went through this
record. That court went through true this record, more
than 5,000 transcript pages, 11 week of trial, more than
100 witnesses. And it was on that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose if we're
going to apply the Brecht standard ourselves, we would
have to do the same thing.
MS. MILLETT: I think that's what this Court
has said.
The other thing I want to get back to is the
question about the length of jury deliberations. Sure,
this was really wrong. Now, they changed forepersons in
midstream and got a reasonable doubt instruction
repeated. Who knows what happened. But what I will not
concede -- I will concede it's long, but I will not
concede that the mere fact of length of deliberations
says anything about if this one particular error in
applying a balancing test substantially affected the
verdict. I think the length of deliberations is so
incredibly speculative.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You will concede it was a
close case, won't you?
MS. MILLETT: I will concede it was, I will
concede it was a difficult case.
JUSTICE STEVENS: If you take five weeks
it's pretty clearly a close case.
MS. MILLETT: That's right. But you know,
the whole the point of federal habeas corpus is that
this is not filling in the gaps in direct review. We're
not going to give you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There's no evidence
or inference that it was close on the alternative
murderer theory, which is the only thing that Maples'
testimony goes to.
MS. MILLETT: That's exactly right. In
fact, if you look at the closing arguments, Mr. Hurtz
has a couple of references in a two-day closing
argument. That was not the centerpiece of his case.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It has to be close on an
alternative murderer. It wasn't suicide. Obviously, if
he didn't do it, somebody else did. So if it's a close
case from the first, it's obviously a close case for the
second.
MS. MILLETT: No, but as to who did it and
whether Hurtz did it or whether -- remember, what the
defense is trying to show is not who did it; it's that
this person didn't do it, and whether it was them or
someone else is what we don't know.
Again, this is Federal habeas corpus before
this Court, and I don't think that the misapplication of
a valid rule of evidence, which is not what this Court
has in Chambers, Holmes, or any of the cases that were
involved, was so -- that simply disallowed the twelfth
out of eleven witnesses on third party culpability is so
clearly erroneous, it was so clearly impacting the
verdict in this case, as to warrant a retrial 15 years
after the crime.
And yes, the jury -- it was close in the
sense that they worked a long hard time. But at the end
of the day, they were unanimous. There's nothing close
about unanimous. And I think it would be the wrong
message to say that a jury that works as hard as this
one did, did the readbacks, culled through this
record --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but we don't know
what they would have done if they had this evidence that
was excluded. That's the problem.
MS. MILLETT: One never knows that in habeas
corpus. But what you do when you look at what they were
focusing on, they were focusing on the two ballistics
experts. They had them read back right next each other.
They made that call. It's their job to do it.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the reason they may
have been doing that is that they may very well have
thought that the evidence indicating third party guilt
was close and perhaps persuasive and what they wanted to
know was whether the evidence going specifically to this
defendant was strong enough to overcome it.
MS. MILLETT: May I answer? One would have
expected at least one readback on third party
culpability instead of three readbacks of Mr. Fry's
testimony which put himself that night with the gun in
the truck, and which he said -- you know -- and
beforehand he agreed he might have said he wanted to
blow them away.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Haltom, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF VICTOR S. HALTOM
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. HALTOM: Thank you. The trial counsel
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Mr. Haltom, before you go
drifting, counsel, into the evidentiary questions in the
case, I have one question. Two cases. A, Hurtz did not
testify at all. B, he did. Is the foundation ruling
any different in the two cases insofar as Maples'
testimony or is it the same? I.e., is there a lesser
showing for foundation if Hurtz did testify?
MR. HALTOM: I think that possibly the
foundation with Hurtz there could be increased. The
jury sought Mr. Hurtz.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, you mean, oh, you mean
more? You have to be more strict for foundation after
Hurtz testified? I was suggesting the opposite.
MR. HALTOM: Well, I was just thinking that
his presence there would be relevant. The jury actually
saw him. They heard a truck driver describing, a
neutral truck driver, describing the actual killer, who
in no way fit the description of Mr. Fry.
Unfortunately, the record doesn't indicate what Mr.
Hurtz looked like, but the jury saw it. And if the jury
saw that that truck driver was describing a man that
looked like Mr. Hurtz, then that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there were all kinds
of infirmities in that truck driver's testimony,
including the time, the timing of the murder.
MR. HALTOM: There were infirmities in his
testimony, Your Honor. However, he came from Missouri,
so maybe he was looking at a Missouri clock. We don't
know. But why would that man make up a story? He has
no axe to grind in this case. And then his testimony is
corroborated by a gentleman who sees him immediately
after it and says: He looked like he had just seen a
ghost, and described seeing a double execution-style
murder. Now --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That was all presented to
the jury, right?
MR. HALTOM: That was all presented to the
jury. However, Ms. Maples' testimony was not, and
counsel did not argue that heavily focused on Mr. Hurtz'
guilt. She certainly did argue it, but the reason that
she didn't is because, as the Court of Appeals, the
California Court of Appeals, said, the other seven
witnesses who said Mr. Hurtz said he had killed the
Bells were all described as having been flimsy witness
who gave contradictory unbelievable testimony.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how strong is
this witness, who didn't even know if it was a serious
conversation, didn't hear the beginning of it, and
didn't -- couldn't tell whether he was talking about
something that happened 10 years before or 2 days
before?
MR. HALTOM: Mr. Chief Justice, she was
extremely strong. Page JA-78 in the joint appendix,
Respondent concedes she was the only unbiased witness
concerning Mr. Hurtz's -- concerning Mr. Hurtz. She
heard this, her cousin, saying he shot a man and a woman
in a parked car, first shooting the woman in the head,
then shooting the man, getting blood all over himself.
That linked up with all the other confessions in this
case. Interlinking confessions just like in Chambers
were deemed to provide adequate assurance of
reliability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:06 a.m. the case in the
above entitled matter was submitted.)
21:24 29:15 21:13,21 25:4 argument 1:12 14:17 22:24
alternative 7:18 apple 3:18 51:20 balance 24:20
10:20 49:12,20 23:7 49:16 balancing 30:5
52:15 41:20 28:7 40:11,19 43:12 44:21 50:25
analysis 5:18,20 42:23 44:4 33:23,25,25 based 4:21 9:4
20:6 16:12,17 25:23 assert 40:24 bear 15:5,9
37:9 announce 35:21 21:13 24:11 assist 29:24 behalf 1:15,18
33:16 30:20 40:25 assume 5:24 24:25 41:20
25:17 30:16,16 37:6 48:11 41:6 47:15,23 believe 4:25
45:10 anybody 38:11 14:14 15:25 assuming 39:7 Bell 37:10
apart 38:3 21:25 22:2,3 47:15 Bells 53:17
22:4 45:20 53:14,15 approached attempted 33:5 21:7
30:8 APPEARAN... 10:16 Attorney 1:17 big 12:22 24:13
31:12 1:14 appropriate available 29:11 bit 45:5
32:11 appeared 32:11 23:20 25:19 awfully 27:11 bite 3:18
43:5 appellate 3:19 area 21:1 axe 53:3 bits 34:23 35:5
5:21 6:14,17 argue 11:2 54:13 blood 54:6
bullets 44:24 29:3,6,9 30:18 9:23 13:21 49:6 50:10,10
22:8 42:21 36:8,15 37:8 25:8,14,22,24 47:18 49:2,6
42:23 43:4,10 40:19,23,25 closing 49:16,17
10:5,7,11 C 43:22 44:16,17 41:4,15 42:4,6 collateral 9:5,8
13:21,25 C 1:17 2:1,6 3:1 45:4 47:1,5,8 42:6,9 45:24 9:11,21 25:9
24:24 49:2,4,6,18,22 characterized 25:12 26:16,16
Cal 1:15,18 49:22 50:11 32:7 40:19 41:24
calendar 33:13 52:1 53:3 54:8 CHERYL 1:6 42:2,11
18:16 California 3:19 54:12,13 Chief 3:3,8 9:2 combination
24:6 4:12 7:21 36:6 cases 9:15 17:14 9:10,19 12:15 47:20
25:7 37:20 39:24 21:14,14 24:4 12:18 15:2 come 4:7,9
40:1 45:20 24:19 25:12,21 16:5 23:5 14:17 26:15
27:9,14 47:1 53:15 25:22 30:7 24:21 25:1 37:3 38:20
30:19 call 43:22 45:14 40:25 41:12 26:25 27:11 40:21
45:17 47:18,18 50:7 52:1,3 40:10 41:17,22 comes 13:5,24
51:2 caused 42:17 48:10 49:11 comity 25:6
40:11,18 called 38:14 centerpiece 51:17 53:19,25 comment 25:25
42:5,8 calls 9:22,24 49:18 54:11 commenting
44:4 42:15 45:11 central 9:16,21 Cindy 37:10 28:2
46:21 candor 45:3 9:23 Circuit 14:5 commit 32:10
48:11 car 38:24 54:5 cert 16:12 18:12 19:9,9 28:3,6 committed 40:5
careful 48:1,5 certain 24:19 32:1 committing 40:8
19:17 carefully 34:21 certainly 9:10 circuits 23:6 completely 8:21
27:25 case 3:4,21 5:17 10:9 23:8 30:9 Circuit's 19:12 32:5
30:16 6:11,22 7:14 39:22 53:13 circumstance complicated
35:7 7:19 8:11,24 certiorari 4:15 10:4 26:14 11:23
36:1 9:1 10:1,8,8 challenging cite 42:7 complied 3:22
11:2,19,23 16:24 cited 24:7 42:6 compounded
13:23 14:2,21 28:25 29:22 claim 14:11 concede 19:14
26:2 16:22 17:9,14 chance 46:14 31:10 49:1,3,4
47:9 17:17,23 18:4 chances 26:22 claims 25:14 conceded 15:9
24:17 25:23,24 5:21,22 6:7,18 clearly 13:3 28:8 conceptually
8:13 17:15 3:22 4:2,3,10 8:22 9:3 13:22decides 10:25
40:14 42:18 47:8 6:7,12,13,14 54:4 11:17 12:22
3:16 7:13,14,17,21 crime 35:10 23:11 25:17
46:16 content 8:8 8:24 9:11,14 45:1 50:12 decisions 16:1
24:8 36:6 12:6,24 28:21 11:9,11,12,13 21:15 decision-maki...
contradictory 14:1,3,4,14,15 cross-appeal deemed 18:18
contrary 5:22 16:21,23,24 cross-examined deep 42:11,11
contributed 19:19 20:2,9 crucial 33:24 defend 47:14
21:4 conversation 22:12,18,18,25 culpability 51:8
9:18 27:1 conviction 3:12 24:7,8,10,14 38:6 40:2 44:9defense 28:25
23:17,18 27:23 30:5,9 37:20,23 deliberated 16:4
14:22 15:1 35:21 40:14,21 41:21 33:6
20:14 correction 4:17 41:11,14,23 custody 42:17 18:21 32:22
13:22 53:4 43:1,11,13,14 D 48:24
counsel 4:9,13 43:25 45:12,20 day 33:15 35:17 18:17
41:17 51:17,22 47:10,25 48:7 days 16:4,4 13:24
54:11 53:14,15 33:13,14 53:23 28:24
couple 30:10 36:15 41:3,7 decide 16:22 1:20
course 34:8 47:2,24 23:2 32:20 described 22:5
5:7 6:1,4 court 1:1,12 3:9 court's 3:22 36:5 45:4 53:6,17
7:15 8:5 3:14,19,19,21 5:22 6:11 8:4,6 46:18 describing
10:10,17,18 eleven 29:5 48:22 explaining
52:16 15:17 50:9 Esparza 6:12 explanation
8:1,2,6 41:24 42:11,12 18:7 ESQ 1:15,17,19 expressed 22:17
distinctions encourage 34:20 2:3,6,9,13 extent 22:10
14:1,4 22:12 ensure 23:21 established 28:8 extremely 54:1
divided 45:13 entitled 3:18 event 45:20 ex-girlfriend's
17:9,24 10:6 47:13 54:14 18:24 19:21,23 eye 38:16
42:7,11 doing 29:2 39:4 equal 45:17,19 21:16,22,22
9:6,22,24 Dominguez 21:5 equipoise 43:3,6 30:3 33:24 fact 4:14 9:8
22:2 double 53:6 43:8 44:1 38:2 39:18 11:25 26:15
39:16 doubt 13:13 equivalent 7:23 40:2 41:13 46:22 48:21
52:3 48:18 30:5 44:11,21 46:17 49:16
drawing 46:4 erroneous 5:12 51:5,7 22:3,24
49:4 dreamed 13:1 16:14 23:18 51:25 fail 28:19
38:17 driver 52:14,15 erroneously exacting 15:25 failure 4:2 5:20
42:3,3 52:19 5:25 6:1,20 23:13 fair 17:25
49:9 driver's 52:22 27:1 exactly 22:1,22 fairly 40:15 45:4
3:15,15,21,23 example 33:7 far 7:8 27:23
31:8 E 2:1 3:1,1 5:4,11,18 6:2,5 excellent 44:17 fashioning
39:9 earlier 22:25 6:16,18,24 7:2 exception 25:13 23:11
41:8 7:7,9,10,13,15 25:18 favorable 21:23
25:11 29:9 18:18 19:20,25 excluding 28:16 23:25 25:3,10
effectively 4:16 22:7 23:16 28:12,19 41:13 28:8 30:5
43:1 effort 36:4 29:20 30:1,6 53:6 46:17 47:3
either 13:8 40:22 41:15 expected 51:10 federalism 25:6
22:18,19 forth 17:19 47:11 48:2 10:20 16:24 42:2
30:25 33:13 52:21 24:10 25:3,16 harmless-error
36:11 found 7:7 10:12 give 39:11 49:10 26:20 27:2 17:22
43:18 22:16 27:7,8 given 47:1,1 42:10,13 49:8 head 54:5
31:18 37:12,16 go 26:20 28:12 50:4,23 hear 3:3 16:9
22:11 foundation 36:9 39:22 2:13 3:5,6,8 38:16,17 39:10
28:11 37:17 39:7 43:7 45:11 4:8 5:15 6:8,25 39:13,13 53:21
30:1 47:20 52:2,5,7 51:24 7:5,11 8:3,11 heard 33:9 34:1
40:22 52:10 goes 39:18 41:4 9:10 10:2,14 35:5,7,12,14
four 31:3 43:4 45:14,17 10:18 11:24 44:12 52:14
Francisco 1:18 going 7:3 10:19 13:18 14:20 Hearst 36:21
19:7,11 22:13 41:5,7,14 22:4,22 23:8 higher 6:24
28:4,25 23:3 34:2 48:11 49:10 24:2,22 51:18 history 13:9
49:22 44:16 52:16 51:7 51:20,22,24 17:7
Fry's 3:11,14,17 good 12:23 52:6,12,24 holding 7:20
52:16 14:11,16 34:2 Government hand 35:20 23:21 37:22
32:23,23 functional 7:23 gradations 21:6 23:19 37:17 holds 24:18 28:3
33:4 fundamental grant 18:12 43:3,10 48:19 holidays 33:1
49:5 25:6 42:13,16 26:12,14 27:8 53:23 Holmes 50:7
24:3 30:17 31:12 47:14 harmful 30:24 21:3 22:23
6:11 generalized 30:4 7:9 9:12 11:21 27:5 39:21
General's 5:16 15:6 46:5 14:19,24 16:6 house 44:23
getting 31:1 53:13 17:6 18:4,7,18 hundreds 47:19
54:6 guilty 18:22 19:20 20:15 hung 14:22
Ginsburg 7:1,6 51:12 23:16 24:15 Hurtz 36:20,22
22:14 23:23 30:1,25 36:5 37:10 38:3,15
54:3 inference 49:12 12:16 22:15 26:2,8,19,25 10:23 17:12,24
54:3 52:22,24 judge 12:22,23 29:24 30:3,12 39:15,24,25
53:4 inquiry 9:13 43:14 37:2,11,19,24 7:24 8:8 9:14
22:19,20 43:19 17:17 45:2,3,13,16 lack 37:16 47:20
16:23 jurist 36:6 47:11 48:2,10 language 19:5,8
31:6 interests 25:10 18:20,20,23 50:20 51:3,17 lasted 32:16
Interlinking 33:4 34:13 53:8,19,25 law 7:14 13:1
introduction 50:13,17 52:8 K 41:25 47:3
26:17 involved 32:16 jury's 20:1 KENNEDY 4:6 learned 27:10
isolation 44:10 3:8 4:6,23 5:15 37:24 38:8,11 left 34:18 44:1
14:9 16:23,24 7:25 8:7,16 9:2 52:9 legal 21:13 22:2
48:3,4 14:6,17,21 39:1 53:16 level 13:23
15:22 16:5 killing 14:25 Leventhal 12:22
Jersey 39:25 19:17 20:7,11 kind 7:9 22:1 26:11,13
34:4,5,11,21 minutes 51:18 nature 3:13 23:3 6:15 10:13
March 1:9 Missouri 52:25 29:15 34:7 38:4 52:9
42:15 7:13 16:17,18 12:7 35:23 37:14 16:9 36:7
50:14 17:21,23 18:4 misunderstand needle 13:19 37:24
21:10 mean 10:22,23 8:22 Neither 46:2 15:16,17 18:16
23:3 28:5 11:21 12:8 moment 46:10 neutral 52:15 19:12,18 21:4
32:17 13:15 17:23 46:11 never 5:5 10:15 42:22
34:21,22 30:15 31:1 Monsanto 24:8 25:21 33:9 opinions 32:17
49:16 33:1 37:11 months 35:16 35:23 38:22,23 opponent 19:13
45:11 46:8 Moody 1:17 2:6 50:23 opposite 20:19
means 11:10,10 26:7,13,23 39:24 options 44:18
22:6,13 meant 17:24 29:23 30:8,14 51:12 3:6 24:24
meet 19:7 31:8,14,16,21 nine 18:21 41:19
44:10,14 mentally 20:19 31:25 32:6,24 Ninth 14:5 19:8 order 23:17 25:9
mention 38:11 33:5,12,20,22 19:9,12 28:3,6 37:14
40:5 merit 46:20 37:5,14,21,25 15:10,19 overcome 29:13
22:10,17 midstream mother 35:1 16:16 30:18 O'Neal 15:9,11
15:16 mightily 18:24 murder 32:10 O 22:7 25:24
20:2 Millett 1:19 2:9 52:23 53:7 O 2:1 3:1 42:25 43:11,15
16:7 42:24 43:7 49:20 29:23
38:24 46:5,13 47:7 32:14 objectively 17:2 P 3:1
53:2 47:13 48:4,13 obtain 5:8 page 2:2 7:16
49:3,7,15,24 N obtains 5:3 12:15 22:15
48:8 22:16 27:21 prepared 41:16 21:23 36:16
point 5:16 9:5 19:22 purposes 29:19 51:1
12:3 15:21 16:11,18 17:15 put 23:23 46:11 readbacks 50:18
37:7 31:5 32:8 53:8,10 reading 15:13
40:2 44:9 33:10,15 38:5 presenting Q 17:11 18:1
51:5,10 38:5 39:6 19:21 quarrel 22:4 reads 22:17
41:19 pointed 9:11 prevail 23:3 15:3,6,22 26:8
24:9 42:20 prisoner 5:1 23:2,19 24:2,6 51:3 53:13
35:8 possible 11:8,17 probability 5:9 29:20 30:13 5:8 13:13
12:4,8 13:17 21:7 31:2 32:9 21:10 36:6
44:1 46:7,9 40:8 44:3 45:8,10 reasonably
21:17 52:6 26:10 45:2 48:16 52:1 REBUTTAL
43:2,23 post-conviction 50:22 questions 12:21 2:12 51:20
37:7 proceeding quite 36:3 recognized 7:23
2:4,14 3:7 precedent 3:22 proceedings 4:4 quoting 34:22 recommendat...
22:21 5:22 24:12 19:6 22:11
26:3,10 prejudice 7:18 process 25:5 R reconcile 29:16
51:21 11:9 12:8 14:2 produced 32:17 R 3:1 record 13:11
22:6 25:11 professors 13:1 raised 5:16 12:2 20:14 21:22
45:21,23 46:7 43:12 48:3 36:9 37:15
prejudicial properly 30:21 Rawlinson 50:19 52:17
24:12 6:5,6,9 7:9 9:5 S 1:15 2:1,3,13 50:14 46:2,8 51:3
10:6 20:14 Sacramento serious 20:12 speaking 17:14
52:13 42:1,2,3,4,6,9 satisfied 45:6 53:15 speculative
31:7 reviewed 3:14 52:18,19 shot 54:4 stage 4:16
24:10 36:2 says 11:9 15:4 43:19 52:5 7:24 8:21 9:3,7
26:3 23:7 34:7 37:1 28:6 36:3 significantly 14:1,7,15,19
49:7,15 51:1 53:5 similarly 34:11 16:12,17,19
9:2,19 12:15 26:19 39:9 50:8 25:18 26:18
16:5 23:5 scene 45:1 situations 21:12 31:23 36:15
27:11 40:10 second 3:25 12:9 sixth 31:9 42:14 42:1,3 45:23
49:11 51:17 30:13 44:3 six-part 35:21 standards 17:6
2:7,11 rolled 33:17 see 8:10 16:13 slim 26:12,14 state 3:19 4:10
19:15 room 34:23 35:5 29:1 38:15 solely 23:2 4:22 5:1,2,4,19
41:21 39:12 seeing 53:6 Solicitor 1:19 5:20 6:7,14,17
54:2 rooted 41:25 seeking 4:4 5:16 24:3 6:20 7:1,2,8,12
24:24 seen 14:24 44:25 someplace 26:4 8:6 9:18 10:6
42:13 46:17 selected 33:16 sort 30:17 41:8 15:5,19 17:1,2
22:12 submitted 54:12 taken 26:22 think 8:17,24 times 39:2 40:21
25:6,10 54:14 32:25 10:4,21,24 47:19
substance 30:1 takes 45:3 13:7,7,10,11 timing 52:23
26:5 substantial 13:4 talk 15:13 20:7 13:12,16 15:15 told 18:22
32:18 13:8 25:11 36:19 15:16,19 17:25 totally 45:6
41:3,7 29:8 44:7 talking 4:23 18:3,4,7,9 tottering 31:4
43:6,8,9 substantially 21:5 22:14 19:21,23,25 transcript 48:8
46:9 14:10 19:25 44:9 53:22 20:2,4,13,13 treated 25:21
23:16 48:23 tell 35:4 53:22 21:8,9,17 22:9 trial 3:11,14,21
substantive 8:5 tension 27:19 23:10 28:20,23 3:24 6:16 11:4
35:3,14 suffered 4:20 43:1 34:19 35:18,19 17:16 37:15
sufficiency test 4:1 22:2 40:10,15 41:6 44:20 47:19
14:1 24:8 sufficient 21:16 testified 34:11 43:15,21 44:5 trials 44:21
41:20 21:22 22:13 38:15 52:11 44:12 45:8,25 Trigg 40:20
15:22 suicide 49:20 14:24 28:5,8 thinking 37:5,6 51:13 52:14,15
19:13 Sullivan 16:2 32:12,12 33:25 52:12 52:19,22
32:2 supplanted 8:21 34:2,4,5 37:3,8 thinks 46:14 true 10:14 20:24
34:3,7,17 support 13:4 38:18,19,21 third 3:11 16:3 28:14,15 31:21
40:4 21:16 44:6,6 39:7,11 40:9 34:12 36:18 39:11 48:7
43:5 supported 47:14 44:23 45:5 37:7 38:6 40:2 truncated 5:19
supporting 1:21 46:15 49:14 44:9,20 50:9 12:3
49:1,5 2:11 41:21 51:12 52:4,22 51:5,10 try 20:16,20
50:20 suppose 4:6 52:25 53:3,11 Thomas 15:17 29:16 36:9
11:24 20:13 53:18 thorny 23:1 trying 27:18
Supreme 1:1,12 24:21 41:17 11:15 12:25 Tuesday 1:9
sure 9:25 16:10 54:11 17:24 19:2,18 turned 35:9
54:1 sync 23:24 thing 6:20 10:16 threw 44:17 14:22 17:23,25
T 2:1,1 38:13 48:12,15 time 24:20 30:3 31:19 36:15
28:25 various 27:18 38:24 44:24 53:23
47:18 verdict 21:16 48:6,6,7
45:24 we're 4:23 21:5 06-5247 1:5 3:4
8:22 23:1 24:6 We've 44:5 10 34:24 53:23
victim 36:25 witness 11:5,8 100 32:18 47:25
2:3,13 3:6 28:9 29:5 32:4 11 38:5 48:8
47:18 violated 11:16 53:20 54:2 15 33:23 50:11
5:6,7,13,25 6:2 34:11,14 38:6 37:22
8:13 10:12 50:9 53:16 181 22:15 43:17
11:4 2
42:17 38:24 54:4,5
23:24 2 53:23
28:20 20 1:9
45:25 W 2007 1:9
want 11:2 32:7 2254 23:23
20:25
35:22
40:16 51:6,14 24:19
WARDEN 1:6 24 2:7 32:24
Washington 1:8 29 16:4
24:7 11:7 49:20 write 20:25
Watson 7:22 wrong 15:20 4
17:2 32:7 34:18 32:3 42:4 403 30:5 46:17
43:12,19 45:14 48:17 50:16 41 2:11
32:19 45:17 52:16 wrongs 42:17
47:2 weeks 31:2,3 19:18 22:11 5,000 48:8
x 1:2,7 9
