IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-562
ATLANTIC RESEARCH CORPORATION. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, April 23, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
OWEN T. ARMSTRONG, JR., ESQ., Milwaukee, Wis; on behalf
of the Respondent.
JAY D. GECK, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Olympia,
Wash; on behalf of Washington, et al., as amici
curiae, supporting the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
OWEN T. ARMSTRONG, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JAY D. GECK, ESQ.
On behalf of Washington, et al., as amici
curiae, supporting the Respondent 44
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 06-562, United States versus
Atlantic Research Corporation.
Mr. Hungar.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS G. HUNGAR
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. HUNGAR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
In Section 113(f) of CERCLA, Congress
created a precisely drawn detailed mechanism for
potentially responsible parties to recover their
response costs from other PRPs. Respondent seeks to
circumvent the limitations that Congress imposed on that
remedy by manufacturing a parallel mechanism for
contribution-like relief under Section 107.
Respondent's theory should be rejected because it
violates fundamental canons of statutory construction,
renders Section 113(f) superfluous, makes a mockery of
the textual limitations enforced by this Court in Cooper
Industries, and would frustrate Congress's clear intent
to encourage settlements with the government in order to
achieve supervised effective cleanups.
Respondent essentially asks this Court to
create a shadow contribution scheme under the guise of
Section 107(a) by borrowing all of the features of the
Section 113(f) remedy except the one that Respondent
can't satisfy, namely the requirement that contribution
be sought only during or following a civil action or
settlement.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Hungar, was this
Court wrong in your view, it wasn't dispositive of the
case in Key Tronic when it said, "Section 107
unquestionably provides a cause of action for private
parties to seek recovery of cleanup costs?"
MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, we agree that
Section 107(a)(1) through (4)(b), subparagraph (b)
creates a cause of action for private parties, in
particular the private parties who are not PRPs, who are
therefore other persons other than the PRPs who are the
subject of that statutory sentence. So we agree in that
sense. We don't think it creates a cause of action for
the particular private parties who are trying to sue in
this case, that is PRPs.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you think that when
the Court says this, it didn't contemplate that PRPs
would be included among private parties?
MR. HUNGAR: Well, in Key Tronic, obviously
the Court was facing a different question so I don't
think it was trying to in any way authoritatively
resolve this issue, as the Court held in Cooper
Industries. But I -- certainly there is language in
Cooper -- excuse me, in Key Tronic that can be read to
suggest that the Court assumed or thought there was some
sort of remedy for PRPs. It's not clear whether it was
referring to contribution or some other remedy. But in
Cooper Industries, the Court made clear that that was
dicta and that's in our view correct, because the Court
in Key Tronic was faced with a different question
altogether.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Who were the PRPs, or who
are the individuals other than PRPs who are likely to,
to avail themselves to the cause of action under Section
7? That's one of the problems I have. I mean, it's got
to be someone other than owners of the land now, owners
of the land then. I mean, who's going to bring these
actions?
MR. HUNGAR: Well, people who are -- who are
excluded by other provisions of Section 107 from the
category of liable parties would be entitled to bring
such an action if they don't --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But can you give me an idea
of generally --
MR. HUNGAR: A city that cleans up a site
and that is not itself --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's not -- you know,
that's not a private party within the meaning of the
quotation.
MR. HUNGAR: No, it is, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Pardon?
MR. HUNGAR: It is, because a city can't sue
under subparagraph (a). Only the State can sue.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it's not the United
States of America, but we wouldn't normally refer to it
as a private party. And -- but I don't mean to get tied
up in that, but can you think of any individuals or
corporations who are not likely to come in to one of the
four categories in 7 who would, who would take advantage
of this?
MR. HUNGAR: Yes, Your Honor. And first of
all, just let me make clear: Subparagraph (b) doesn't
refer to private parties only; it says any other person.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No I realize that. I'm
trying to --
MR. HUNGAR: But with respect to private
parties in particular, any private party who was a
so-called innocent person under the statute, who because
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: No. Those are people who
would have a defense under the later sections of --
subsections of Section 7. They are still people who
would fall within the first four categories.
MR. HUNGAR: I think, Your Honor, that you
have to read the statutory sentence in Section 107(a) as
a whole, and what it says is that the people in these
categories, owners, operators, arrangers and so forth,
collect in the conjunctive, shall be liable for -- and
then under (b), any other necessary cost or response
incurred by any other person.
And that the other provisions of the statute
such as subparagraph (b) with respect to the third party
defense, subparagraph (d), subparagraphs that create --
I mean, I'm sorry, subsections that create various
defenses, what they say is if you satisfy this defense,
you're not liable. You are taken out of the category of
liable parties, the category that is the subject of this
statutory sentence. And therefore in our view, you
become an other person. So people who are able to
satisfy the defenses are other persons, and that's what
the lower courts have held in cases where this has come
up.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you know that when
they go into court. Let's assume they bring the action
and the answer is well, you fall into one of the
categories one through four, and the person says oh, but
I -- I'm not liable because ultimately I will have an
innocent party defense. Would we then have a collateral
trial on the innocent party defense in -- in the cause
of action for, for reimbursement?
MR. HUNGAR: Well, I don't think it's a
collateral trial. It's just one of the issues in the
case.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But I mean if that would be
the first issue, we'd have to try the innocence of the
person who was bringing the action?
MR. HUNGAR: Well, I think the court could
obviously structure the issues as it saw fit but
certainly that would be one the issues in the case, but
again people in that category aren't the only --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well the -- the trouble
with having, I mean the trouble with that approach is
that whatever you, whatever may be the ultimate effect
of subsection (b) is referred to as defenses. And the
way you're using it the so-called defenses would be an
-- an affirmative element in the action for, for, for
cost reimbursement with is just -- and I mean it
certainly at the least would involve a very odd language
usage in the statute.
MR. HUNGAR: Well I don't think so because
what the statute says is people, the people who are the
subject of the sentence shall be liable to other
persons. And if someone by virtue of the statute is
rendered not liable --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you --
MR. HUNGAR: -- they are not in the
subject; they are in the other category.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well you've glided
over the great difficulty which is it doesn't say that
people identified in the statute shall be liable to
other persons. It says they will be liable to, under
certain circumstances, the United States, a State or an
Indian tribe and they are liable for -- for other costs
incurred by any other person. And it just seems that
the most natural reading of that construction is that
the other refers to other than the United States or a
State or an Indian tribe.
MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, that would
certainly be a -- a permissible reading of the statute,
were it not for the other "other." The -- the statute
in subparagraph (b) refers to any, provides a cause of
action or refers, really imposes liability for any
"other" necessary costs. The other necessary costs --
that other, the only other costs that that "other" can
refer to are the costs of governmental entities, the
United States and the States and Indian tribes under
subparagraph (a). So the first other in subparagraph
(b) makes clear that it's not talking about the
subparagraph (a) claims; it's talking about other
claims, because by definition the United States or a
State cannot recover under (b) by virtue of the first
other.
Congress in the development of this
language, the first other was already in the statutory
language. Congress, at the last minute there was a
change, a compromise in order to get the bill passed and
reduce the onerousness of its provisions, and they added
the second other. The only logical explanation and the
only way to give effect to the second other is to
construe it as we do.
JUSTICE ALITO: In the years since CERCLA
was enacted have there been any real cases in which a
party that you would regard as an innocent party has
brought a cost recovery action?
MR. HUNGAR: Yes, sir. And actually there's
an annotation that, that collects the cases. We haven't
done an exhaustive survey, but certainly the annotation
is -- which is at 12 A.L.R. F.2d 161 -- collects a
number of such cases. And the lower courts have
addressed these questions and have, and adjudicated them
so this is not a novel suggestion. And it's one that
has arisen because, because remember, under the well
established law of every circuit that had addressed the
question prior to the Cooper Industries decision, a PRP
could not sue solely under Section 107(a). They had to
sue, they had to comply with the, the Section 113
mechanism, and the courts held that in order to avoid
the disastrous consequences that would ensue if
respondents or the court of appeals --
JUSTICE BREYER: What are -- what are they?
I mean as I read this, I can't get anything out of the
language. I mean the two "others" might just make it
more clear. So we have another Section 113 that talks
about contribution and it says you can get contribution
if there has been a lawsuit, and so forth, or if there
has been a settlement. Fine.
Now the question comes up, well, suppose
there hasn't been a lawsuit or a settlement. Now if we
look at the language here, at least my initial reading
of it, it does not say. It says that they are liable.
These PRPs are liable to this other PRP or person there.
But it doesn't just say explicitly bring a suit, and it
doesn't say explicitly you can't bring a suit.
So I think well, why can't he bring a suit?
If he brings a suit how is the sky to fall? On the
other hand, if you don't let him bring a suit, they say
well, maybe the Government just -- will just stay out of
this. The Government won't enter into settlements
because the Government is a big polluter. And it would
not like to get sued often, so they will stay away from
the settlement and be home free.
So that's what they say on your -- on their
side, I think, primarily. What do you say on your side?
How will the sky fall if in fact they win and they can
bring suits under 107?
MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, the sky will fall
because under that interpretation PRPs can evade the
settlement bar that Congress enacted in order to
encourage settlement, and Congress's clear goal in
providing a contribution remedy and providing an
explicit opportunity for PRPs to sue was to encourage
settlement with the Government. Congress wanted to
reduce litigation, encourage settlement and Government
supervised cleanups, and so it created the settlement
bar in Section 113(f)(2), which, if a PRP settles with
the Government, the United States or a State, settles
for a response cost liability, it then has a
contribution action to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does it work with "or
a State" because I thought that there was some
suggestion that States, they don't want to bother with
the Federal legislation, so they'll say you're okay
under the State legislation. You can't force a State to
-- to take on that responsibility.
MR. HUNGAR: Well, Your Honor in our view
what Section 113(f)(3)(b), the settlement contribution
provision, requires is that a State settle, the parties
settle with the State and resolve its liability to the
State for response costs which is a defined term under
CERCLA.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The States, we have a
brief from the States telling us look, we don't want to
put our money on that kind of thing. We've got very
high-risk sites and we want to spend our resources
making sure those are cleaned up.
MR. HUNGAR: Well, Your Honor, every State
has a voluntary cleanup program which encourages parties
to settle, and under many of those programs there is an
opportunity if they do the settlement to required
standards to obtain a discharge of liability from the
State for response costs. And there is no reason why
those settlement agreements can't be written and they
often are.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, they -- they can.
Of course they can but the States are telling us that
this puts a burden on them that they don't want.
MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, the States already
have these programs in existence. There is no reason
why the settlement language can't be written
appropriately and moreover, in many States, I suspect
most States, the PRPs are required to pay the costs of
the State that it incurs in monitoring and in ensuring
that the settlement agreement is appropriate. The State
of Washington, for example, which is here today, if you
look at the web site of its Department of Ecology, it
has extensive procedures, extensive opportunities for
parties to come to the State, present the information,
obtain a settlement if they want -- if they will pay the
State's costs in monitoring and making sure that what
the PRP is doing is an appropriate cleanup. And that's
what CERCLA should encourage. There are --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, let's just go back
to Justice Breyer's question, because it was I think a
major point of the Eighth Circuit. That is, they said
the United States, the United States is a big polluter,
could avoid its own responsibility by not bringing any
enforcement action and by not settling, and you -- you
said there would be a disincentive for the PRP -- a
disincentive to settlement, but you didn't answer the
question of why wouldn't the United States when it is a
polluter and it would be responsible on this site, to
say well, we are going to, we are not going to settle?
MR. HUNGAR: Well, two -- two responses.
Number one of course, if that happened, there is always
the State option, the States settled thousands of cases.
Number two, that's just not the way it works in
practice. EPA has the enforcement authority with
respect to these private, the private sites that we are
talking about. EPA has no incentive not to do its job
and every incentive to do its job.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, what about the --
what about the statement in the red brief that -- that
there is presently in existence a directive that EPA not
proceed against any Federal agency?
MR. HUNGAR: I -- I think what Your Honor is
referring to is a directive perhaps that requires EPA to
obtain the Attorney General's approval before it will
issue a unilateral administrative order. But that
doesn't apply to Section 107, excuse me, Section 106(1)
consent orders the, the EPA issues. It enters into
numerous settlement agreements in cases implicating
Federal PRPs; we cited a number in our brief and there
are many more, and -- and EPA has a detailed set of
standards. They occupy a hundred pages.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, excuse me. Are cases
that you referred to cases in which EPA has gone against
a -- we'll say a third party polluter, but the
Government is also involved?
MR. HUNGAR: Yes. We cite a number from the
Federal Register.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. Now, has EPA during
the pendency of that directive gone directly against any
Federal agency?
MR. HUNGAR: If Your Honor means filing a
lawsuit the answer is no --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No.
MR. HUNGAR: -- because in our view EPA
can't sue the United States. If Your Honor means, I
mean definitely there are enforcement actions or --
proceeding. The way EPA normally works, just to be
clear, is that when it learns of a site, it learns of a
release of hazardous materials, it does a preliminary
assessment to find out whether this is a problem or not,
whether it's a problem that they should pay attention to
or if they should instead refer to the State. And if
it's of sufficient magnitude that it's for the EPA
rather than the State to deal with, they proceed to
identify all the PRPs they can sent notices to them and
attempt to settle.
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right --
MR. HUNGAR: They always do that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What if, what if one of the
PRPs they so identify is the Department of Defense?
MR. HUNGAR: Yes. They attempt to settle,
they attempt to settle with the Department of Defense as
well as --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do they have to get the
Attorney General's approval before doing that? Before
naming the Department of Defense?
MR. HUNGAR: Well, they wouldn't sue them.
If you mean by sending notice to the Department of
Defense --
JUSTICE SOUTER: However they initiate, I
don't know as a matter of procedure how they initiate
enforcement action --
MR. HUNGAR: They send a letter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's by that letter --
MR. HUNGAR: They send a letter to all
PRPs.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do they need the Attorney
General's approval to send the letter?
MR. HUNGAR: I'm not sure. I don't believe
so, but I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What if, what the
Department of Defense says "nothing doing"? What does
EPA do then?
MR. HUNGAR: They would -- if, if the
private parties are willing to settle and pay, and take
responsibility for their share of the liabilities, EPA
can and will settle with them, regardless.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, what does it do about
the Department of Defense?
MR. HUNGAR: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: In my hypo, the Department
of Defense says you know, we are not talking with you.
MR. HUNGAR: Well, number one the Department
of Defense has additional legal obligations to deal with
hazardous waste even beyond anything EPA can do.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Maybe it does. But let's
just talk about EPA. What does EPA do in the case that,
when Defense stonewalls?
MR. HUNGAR: Just, just to be -- just to
finish my last point, if I may -- which can be enforced
by citizen suits.
But leaving that point aside, if --
ultimately they would go to the Attorney General I
suppose and ask for authority to issue a unilateral
order. But I'm not aware that that problem is a
significant one, and the fact is there are numerous
settlements, and they don't, under -- under -- for
Respondent to have a cause of action, EPA doesn't have
to settle with the Federal PRP; all they have to do is
settle with the private PRP, and if the private PRP is
willing to pay its share, which EPA determines according
to standards about its -- vary, considering various
factors about who contributed what and who caused which
portion of the problem --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And at that point 113 would
kick in --
MR. HUNGAR: Correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- regardless of Defense?
MR. HUNGAR: Correct. And again if EPA
somehow refused to settle, the -- they could settle with
the State. So it's just not -- EPA does not have any
incentive to block cleanups. EPA wants to encourage
cleanups and if the best way to get the cleanup done is
to settle with a private party, then that's what EPA is
going to do.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then why this case --
there's a point that was made by the Eighth Circuit, and
also in the States' brief on page 24, and that is that
the EPA was engaged in settlement negotiations with
Atlantic Research, and then after this Court decided
Cooper Industries that negotiation terminated.
MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, that's not correct.
My understanding is that the negotiations were between,
were -- Atlantic Research brought a claim seeking,
seeking money from essentially the Defense Department,
and my understanding was that the negotiations were only
to settle Atlantic Research's claim whether you call it
a contribution or a cost recovery claim, not an attempt
by Atlantic Research to resolve its liability to the
United States. They were not negotiating with EPA with
respect to EPA's enforcement authority. They are
negotiating with Justice Department lawyers in the
environmental defense section who represent Federal PRP
defendants. They weren't -- they weren't trying to
resolve their liability in order to give rise to a
contribution claim. What they were trying to do was
merely make the United States pay them without first
having resolved their own liability, which is why it
makes no sense for them to be bringing a contribution
claim.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I -- can I go back?
Because I'm trying to, since I do find it so open with
the language, what I'm doing is making what I call the
list of acorns. You say the sky is falling and I want a
comparative list.
MR. HUNGAR: Yes. Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: On their side I have an
acorn, which is if they don't win, EPA and DOD just are
not going to settle these things because they want to
escape us suing them. And you say, are you kidding?
EPA loves to sue.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: And they like to settle.
Don't worry about it. All right.
On your side, you're saying well, you know,
if we don't -- if we don't -- accept your
interpretation, they won't enter into settlements. To
which I guess they will make the same response. Are you
kidding? The EPA loves to sue us and we are frightened
of them and we'll settle.
Okay. So I've got one acorn each side, now
are there other acorns on the Government side; namely
the sky is falling --
MR. HUNGAR: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: What are they? I'd just
like to make the whole list of acorns.
MR. HUNGAR: Well, the first and foremost
way in which the sky is falling is that the court of
appeals approach, Respondent's approach would eviscerate
the settlement bar, because the whole point of the
settlement bar is to give parties an incentive to settle
with the Government knowing that they will be protected
from contribution claims. But if Respondent has a cost
recovery claim under Section 107, the settlement bar
goes out the window. And in fact that's what a number
of the courts of appeals have held in -- in making clear
that Section 113 does govern these claims. EPA has
entered into settlements with literally tens of
thousands of PRPs.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you have to pay the
costs. I mean, isn't that something of a disincentive?
Before you can sue?
MR. HUNGAR: Well, but the claim here is
that the parties want to pay the costs and incur
voluntary cleanup costs anyway. They just don't want to
settle first. So if I'm understanding your question --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. It would be one thing
if you skip away from a settlement without having to pay
any money. But in order to come under, under 9607, they
have to, they have to shell out the money.
MR. HUNGAR: Maybe I'm not understanding.
My point, Your Honor, is that there are tens of
thousands of parties who have already settled, shelling
out some money or not, with the EPA in reliance on the
unanimous view of the courts of appeals that PRPs could
not sue them because the contribution bar protected
them, Section 113(f) would protect them.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how sure are
you -- how sure are you that it doesn't protect them
still?
MR. HUNGAR: Well, Your Honor, what it
applies to is contribution claims, and respondent and
Respondent's amici are very clear that they want is not
a contribution claim because they recognize that the
settlement bar would preclude their claims, but a cost
recovery claim, and Section 113(f)(2) says
"contribution," not "cost recovery." Those are very
clearly --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, when one
responsible party has paid out the cost and is seeking a
cost recovery claim from another responsible party, it's
not too much of a stretch to call it a contribution
claim, is it?
MR. HUNGAR: Well, Your Honor, if you want
to call what the PRP is seeking a contribution claim,
then we submit that it should be governed by the
traditional understanding of contribution and by
Congress's explicit terms defining what it wants
contribution claims to be. Even if you assume that in
some sense Section 107 imposes liability on PRPs to
other PRPs, it doesn't say what to do with that
liability and how you litigate it. Section 113(f) is
how Congress explicitly, carefully addressed that
question and when Congress has done so this Court
normally assumes that what Congress specifically said as
the remedy and delineated as the remedy, including the
limitations thereon, are what apply.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're not worried
about any of that when you're dealing with an innocent
party, the person you say can bring this action under
107(4)(b). Don't all those same concerns and objections
apply in that case as well?
MR. HUNGAR: No, Your Honor, because the
normal rule in American law is that innocent victims get
to sue the people who have injured them for recovery,
but the defendants, the liable parties, don't get to sue
each other except in contribution when it has been made
available.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you don't know,
you don't know, that you're dealing with an innocent
party until the end of the litigation.
MR. HUNGAR: Well, that might be true in
many circumstances, Your Honor. But that doesn't mean
that we don't give someone who can establish they are
innocent party a right to full recovery and someone who
is not an innocent party is relegated to contribution.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you have another
example of an innocent party who can bring an action
under 107(4)(b) other than a governmental subdivision?
MR. HUNGAR: Yes, Your Honor. A party who
qualifies, who can show that under the third party
defense the hazardous release was not due to any, any
fault of their own, and can satisfy the requirements of
that defense.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But they're somehow
affected by the hazardous release.
MR. HUNGAR: I'm sorry?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But they're still
somehow affected by the hazardous release.
MR. HUNGAR: Well, yes. They could be a
subsequent owner, for example, under the bona fide
purchaser exemption or the third party exemption.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But my point is that
subsequent owner, EPA is going to start looking at him
as a PRP, not as an innocent party. In other words,
there is going to have to be an awful lot of litigation
before he can establish that he is not a PRP and is
instead an innocent, innocent party.
MR. HUNGAR: Well, they could also just
resolve it through settlement, Your Honor. And either
they could then proceed with their lawsuit or, if they
want to admit some minimal liability and obtain a
contribution claim, they could proceed in that fashion.
But there are solutions to the problems that have been
identified under our interpretation, but there is no
plausible solution to the problems that their
interpretation produce, including eviscerating the
settlement bar. It's no surprise that some of the
largest polluters in America have lined up in support of
this view, because this will allow them to reopen
settlements and go after parties who thought they had
paid up their liability and obtained settlement
protection by virtue of the Section 113(f) settlement
bar.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The person who settled,
wouldn't that person be protected? Wouldn't the court
say, this person has made a bargain with the EPA and
we're not going to extract any more from them?
MR. HUNGAR: Not if the claim is a cost
recovery claim under Section 107, because section -- the
settlement bar applies only to claims for contribution.
This is Section 113(f)(2), which appears on page 9a of
the appendix to our brief.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but to make the
statute work in harmony, to harmonize 107 with 113, it
seems to me that would be an altogether reasonable
position for a court to take. If someone has settled
and is protected by virtue of that settlement, then when
someone else tries to go after that same person the
court could say: We have to make the statute work and
we're going to honor the settlement.
MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, I submit if the
court were seeking go harmonize Sections 113 and 107 the
way to do it would be to give effect to the limitations
that Congress imposed on PRP remedies, but not merely
the settlement bar, but also the requirement that
actions be brought during or following civil actions and
settlements, and also the statute of limitations, which
the Respondent's theory would also permit them to evade.
If I may, I'd like to reserve the balance of
my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Hungar.
Mr. Armstrong.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF OWEN T. ARMSTRONG, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. ARMSTRONG: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
I would like to address the settlement bar.
One thing that the Court should keep in mind is that a
cost recovery action under 107(a)(4)(B) is an action for
restitution. This is an equitable action. There is no
jury trial under CERCLA. The district court is sitting
as a court of equity. And as Justice Ginsburg just
pointed out, the court is empowered in any case, any
107(a)(4)(B) case, to accord settlement protection to a
settling party as a matter of equity. It may do that
simply as a matter of equity or, as we pointed out in
our brief, it may do so by virtue of a contribution
counterclaim by the settling party.
So the court, a district court, is empowered
to give full protection to any party who has settled so
long as the matters addressed a portion of 107 --
JUSTICE BREYER: How? I'm not so sure
because -- unless you want to stipulate that that
restitution -- if you want us to write in the opinion
that in fact in a 107 action if one of the parties sued
has entered into a settlement he shall have precisely
the same protection from suit as if it were a 113
action. Do you want to say that or not?
MR. ARMSTRONG: Well, Your Honor, I believe
the district court as a matter of equity should accord
in most cases -- now there may be exceptions --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I would worry about
the equity. I just want to know if you want to
stipulate that that's the proper interpretation, because
I could easily imagine a case where your client bought a
beautiful golf course and he wants to turn it into a
golf course. Unfortunately, there's a little mess under
there and he spends $10 million on that. And he says
the real fault is the Union Oil Company and I'm going to
sue them because they're the ones who dumped this and
they've cost me $9 million. And it turns out that Union
through precisely good luck and a brilliant attorney has
settled this very matter for one dollar with EPA.
Barred?
MR. ARMSTRONG: No, Your Honor, it would not
be barred in that case.
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah, that's what I thought,
and that's what he's saying. That's what he's saying,
that's why he has brought his second acorn, because he
said there's a huge difference here. What you will do
is if you get this 107 action you'll argue to the court
as to what's fair, but what 113 says is once you settle
with the Federal Government you're home free.
MR. ARMSTRONG: Well, Your Honor, in your
hypothetical, spending one dollar, there is no question
that the court sitting in equity and also as a matter of
a contribution counterclaim would be entitled to review
the settlement and if that matter is in the matters
addressed, if it has been resolved by the Government --
and I should point out that in a settlement, settlements
are publicly noticed, so parties have an opportunity to
object to any settlement which they feel is unfair. And
presumably our golf course owner would be identified in
that circumstance.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but there's
nothing, there's nothing unnecessarily unfair. It turns
out that the Union Oil Company is bankrupt and in part
of the settlement they agreed to turn over all the
documents listing whoever it was that gave them the
chemicals. And it's a very complicated thing because
we're dealing with people often in these cases that
don't have assets and only limited responsible parties
have the assets. So they're trying to recover what they
can from the others.
MR. ARMSTRONG: That is correct, Your Honor.
That would not be unfair any more than it would be
unfair in a contribution action, in which case the court
is directed to apply principles of equity in allocating
responsibility.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, almost by definition
a settlement is for the full amount that you'd have to
spend without the settlement, almost by definition.
MR. ARMSTRONG: Well, that is correct, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You don't usually settle
for 100 percent of your liability.
MR. ARMSTRONG: That is correct, and I think
Congress did write that into the contribution part of
the statute --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that means that in
every settlement agreement you'd have to engage in this
analysis to see whether or not it was fair.
MR. ARMSTRONG: Well, I believe in every
settlement agreement the court would have to engage in
an analysis as to what matters addressed are for
purposes of the settlement.
JUSTICE BREYER: How are you going to choose
this? Because he is, I think you're -- maybe you're in
a slightly awkward position because the Government is
saying that one of the reasons that you're stuck with
113 is because Congress didn't really want through 107
to give parties like your clients an opportunity to
review for fairness or equitable principles, whatever
you like, the settlements that had taken place with the
defendant in EPA. And that's so we can get people to
settle, among other things. They feel they're home
free.
Now, you have two choices here. I think you
could say, one, well, that's the way it is, we should
have a 107 action and we should review these settlements
for fairness; or two, you could say one of the
principles of fairness is the principle that's written
into 113 about no review, and we're happy with reading
that into 107. So which is it that you would like to
say?
MR. ARMSTRONG: Well, Your Honor, that's
absolutely true, because I think one of the principles
of fairness is to solidify the settlement agreement.
JUSTICE BREYER: When you say that's
absolutely true, you mean absolutely true that you have
that choice, or is it --
MR. ARMSTRONG: I believe that a reviewing
court should in each instance -- if a district court
decides to avoid the settlement, if it says that it's
not fair, I believe that would undercut the finality of
a settlement so long as it's contained within the
matters addressed.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, so then he's
wrong in thinking that the motivating force behind this
action is to permit people to get equitable review of
prior settlements? What you simply want -- and you're
not interested in that; you'll go with no equitable
review of private settlements. Read 113 into it. You
want the right to bring the case where there has no
settlement and Government has done nothing.
MR. ARMSTRONG: That is absolutely correct
in our case, Your Honor, and I think we've stipulated to
that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But to talk about the
other polluter or the other in this case, where the
other polluter is not someone who is going to settle
because it's the Government itself --
MR. ARMSTRONG: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So I don't think you're
in a position to concede anything one way or another
because that's not your case.
MR. ARMSTRONG: That is correct, Your Honor,
because in our case, I think as we have made it quite
clear, all we are seeking in this case is to recover a
proportion of our response costs. We cannot conceive,
because we are not confronted with the issue that has
been posed -- I would not object as a matter of a bright
line rule if the Court were to rule that a settlement is
protected from a back end or a roundabout 107(a)(4)(B)
action in order to disturb a settlement agreement. We
do not have those circumstances in this case, that is
correct. And we are only seeking restitution in our
case. We are seeking an equitable result, a
proportionate share of ARC's response costs.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the
Government's concern that prenups shouldn't go on
unsupervised. That's when EPA brings an enforcement
action, there's a monitor there. When there's a
settlement, then the Government is there. But if you
just go off on your own and do this, you're doing it
unsupervised by any State authority, any Federal
authority, and that could --
MR. ARMSTRONG: Your Honor, I believe in
most cases there is State involvement. There is in the
ARC case, although it is not in the record. We have
entered into a cooperative relationship with the State
in cleaning up the site. And I think in almost every
case a PRP is well advised to bring in experts to make
sure that the cleanup is consistent with the national
contingency plan, because absent that, satisfying that
requirement, the PRP is not entitled to recover any of
its costs. So there is a very demanding requirement
written into CERCLA. The national contingency plan
occupies 9605 and it occupies several hundred pages of
40 C.F.R. part 300.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: As you read the
statute, you're talking about a PRP, but any other
person doesn't have to be a PRP, does it?
MR. ARMSTRONG: No, Your Honor. That is
correct, although --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You could set up a
company that cleans up these sites, right, and go
traveling around the country and clean them up and then
send people a bill and cite your reading of 1074(b),
right?
MR. ARMSTRONG: 107(a)(4)(B) would include
both PRPs and what we might call non-PRPs. I believe
one of the amicus parties studies 364 cases between the
years of 1995 and 2000 and there was one case out of
that 364 that involved precisely your hypothetical, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if we rule in
your favor presumably there will be a lot more, right?
MR. ARMSTRONG: PRPs will certainly be able
to seek cost recovery under 107(a)(4)(B).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about non-PRPs?
MR. ARMSTRONG: There are very few non-PRPs.
The only non-PRPs that I can think of is perhaps the
hypothetical you just advanced, because as has been
pointed out, the so-called innocent adjoining landowner
is a PRP, is a covered person under 107(a)(4)(b), and
only has a defense to liability. And it is absolutely
true that in order to bring an action, according to the
Government, that particular PRP would have to establish
through affirmative action that it's -- that it
satisfies the, the liability exclusion in 107(b). And
that is a very drawn out process. The criteria for
satisfying the defense in 107(b) takes up 2 1/2 pages of
the, of the statute.
So what we are involved in in that case,
Your Honor, is yes, PRPs may bring cost recovery
actions. And I think that was true in 1980 when the
statute was passed. Contrary to the Government's
representation, there are 10 cases holding that actions
may be brought under 107(a)(4)(b) by so-called PRPs
between the time that CERCLA was passed in 1980 and the
amendment to CERCLA in 1986, in October of 1986. Courts
held without exception, without exception, that covered
persons or PRPs indeed do have a right to bring a cost
recovery action under 107(a)(4)(b).
And Congress when it passed 113, was looking
at those cases only that had some doubt about whether
contribution could also be brought. In other words,
whether a party could seek restitution despite the fact
that it was compelled to do a cleanup via a lawsuit.
And some courts found that there was an implied right to
contribution, some found that there was a common law
right, but Congress in 1986 specifically said, we are
only concerned with the implied right to contribution,
given this Court's holding in the Northwest Airlines
case and in Texas Industries. Congress was concerned
that there would be no right to contribution unless it
codified that right, which it did in 1986. And I think
the legislative history makes it quite clear that
Congress did not intend to disturb or to cut back on the
rights that courts had found consistently in that
six-year window between 1980 and 1986, all of which held
that PRPs indeed do have a right to bring cost recovery
actions.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But in -- in response to
your -- going back to your response to Justice Breyer, I
take it the -- the right under -- under 107 was affected
to the extent, or at least you would agree that it was
affected to the extent that if there is a settlement
they are home free and there can't be a 107 action; is
that correct?
MR. ARMSTRONG: That is correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. So it disturbed the
old scheme to that extent.
MR. ARMSTRONG: It did, although most of
these cases I do believe did not involve settlements,
but I think obviously when Congress enacted 113, I think
it certainly wanted to encourage settlements in cases
where there had been an action brought against a PRP.
Obviously I think settlement saves everybody the time
and effort of litigating these matters, and I think for
that reason, in 113 we get contribution protection, we
get the ability to bring a contribution action. So
certainly settlement was a key element of 113 but it was
a key element of that provision, not Section 107. But I
think Congress has made it quite clear to encourage
settlements, if it's in the matters addressed, that
there should be immunity for those parties that are
settling their claims with the Government or a State in
a judicially approved or administratively approved
settlement. So I don't believe --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the
disincentive to settlement? You just said how important
settlement was, or what a good thing it is to encourage
it. But the Government says if you could just clean up
without any order and without making any proposed
settlement, just do it and get back your costs, then
there's a powerful disincentive to settle.
MR. ARMSTRONG: Well, Your Honor, I think
once again, settling is not a disincentive in the sense
that if you do settle, you are deemed -- all of your
costs are deemed to be consistent with the national
contingency plan. You need not be concerned in that
particular case about satisfying the burden of proof
that you have as a PRP that your costs are consistent
with the national contingency plan, which is no easy
matter. The national contingency plan as I stated,
appearing in 40 C.F.R., part 300, occupies a good
hundred pages. It is a very detailed and demanding set
of requirements. So there is a strong incentive, I
still believe, for parties to settle because in such a
case they do not have to establish that there is
consistency with the national contingency plan.
They also obtain immunity from suits,
assuming it's in the matters addressed. Now a party
that voluntarily remediates a site has to worry about
both of these elements. It can be sued. It has no
immunity. It is certainly subject to being sued by
another PRP, by a State, an Indian tribe, or the
Government, regardless of how much or how well it's done
in remediating a site, whereas a settlement gives that
protection to a PRP.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you say there are two
factors which still exert pressure to settle. One is
that you don't have to bear the burden of showing that
you conform with the national contingency plan, and
second, that --
MR. ARMSTRONG: The second factor is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- you insulate yourself
from contribution suits by other people.
MR. ARMSTRONG: That is correct, Your Honor.
That is absolutely correct. Because in cleaning up a
site, you can clean up all or part of a site. That's
what 113(f)(3)(b) states.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you rely at all on -- in
9607(a)(b)? It says any other necessary costs of
response incurred by any other person. Does the word
"any" add anything to your case? Do you think it urges
us to give the broadest possible interpretation to other
person?
MR. ARMSTRONG: I believe it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Other necessary costs?
MR. ARMSTRONG: I believe it does, Your
Honor. I mean, I can't imagine language more broad than
that. I do believe the first use of the word other that
opposing counsel referred to is to make it quite clear
that there can't be a duplication of liability.
Obviously a PRP that is exposed to liability in a case
cannot be required to pay both the Government and the
other party who is cleaning up the site.
And I would say that the second use of the
word other, which has become quite critical in the
Government's argument, the Government I think concedes
that the way the statute initially read in the first
draft omitted the term other and simply read any person.
And the Government says well, the insertion of the word
other prior to the enactment of CERCLA indicates that
what Congress intended was to withdraw from that huge
basket, if you will, all PRPs. Well, that is not the
case at all, because initially the definition section of
person that was contained in the initial draft of CERCLA
did not include the United States. It cross-referenced
the Clean Water Act. So the United States was not a
person within the initial draft.
And the addition of the word other, the
second other in 107(a)(4)(b) was to make it clear.
Otherwise, you're going to have a statute that says the
government can recover under (a)(4)(a) and (a)(4)(b).
So I do believe that the addition of the second word
other simply explained and clarified that the Government
was to bring its action under 107(a)(4)(a), not under
107(a)(4)(b).
And I think as Justice Scalia has mentioned
before, it would be very odd for Congress to have so
drastically changed CERCLA by inserting the word other
without any commentary whatsoever. There was a good
deal of debate about the exclusion of joint and several
liability under CERCLA, about the exclusion of
contribution, and other matters. There was not a
mention made of the addition of the word other preceding
person in 107(a)(4)(b).
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now you say this very
language that's in 107 now had been interpreted
unanimously by the courts?
MR. ARMSTRONG: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So that part of your case
is that, is to say that it's limited by 113 is to say
that there's been an implied repeal.
MR. ARMSTRONG: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Unless all those cases were
wrong.
MR. ARMSTRONG: That is absolutely correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it's not just a
legislative history point you're making, it's not just a
point as to what Congress's expectations were. It's
also -- it's also a point that relates to implicit
repeal.
MR. ARMSTRONG: It would be tantamount to a
repeal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if the Government's
only strong point is that 113 is meant to coerce
settlement, and 113 didn't exist before, then it must be
very clear that previously 107 did give them a cause of
action.
MR. ARMSTRONG: That is absolutely correct.
That logic is impeccable, Your Honor, I believe so.
Because that -- that law was well established and there
was no -- there was no such thing as contribution.
There was no protection prior to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No acorns on the other
side.
MR. ARMSTRONG: No acorns.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask just one
question about your position on the remedial settlement
provision in 113(f)(2)? Do you read it to provide not
only immunity from contribution suits but from any other
litigation whatsoever?
MR. ARMSTRONG: No, Your Honor, it's not any
other litigation whatsoever. I think that it is quite
clear that what (f)(2) does provide is in a settlement,
if a party is seeking under CERCLA -- now when you say
other litigation, I assume you perhaps mean State law,
etcetera. If it's a State law contribution claim, I
believe that provision would afford immunity from a
State law contribution claim, assuming it could be
asserted. Now of course it could not be asserted
against the United States. But I do believe that that
language --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If there were a claim that
didn't really technically qualify as contribution, it
would not, it would not provide a bar.
MR. ARMSTRONG: If it were a CERCLA claim,
Your Honor, under 107(a)(4)(b), it would. However, if
it is not a claim based upon CERCLA, and there are
certainly a myriad of claims that can be brought --
remember, CERCLA is a strict liability provision -- I
don't believe that would bar all lawsuits entirely.
That's correct, Your Honor. If there's nothing further
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thanks,
Mr. Armstrong.
Mr. Geck.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAY D. GECK
ON BEHALF OF WASHINGTON, ET AL., AS AMICI CURIAE
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MR. GECK: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
May it please the Court:
There are more than 400,000 sites across the
country that are contaminated by hazardous wastes. The
amici States recognize that if these sites are to be
cleaned up, it's going to take the work of private
parties. In turn, we recognize that private parties
rely upon cost recovery to obtain their costs and
financial incentives to do the site cleanup. The United
States argument ignores this vast majority of sites that
do not have the opportunity of litigation and do not
have the opportunity of settlement.
I'll turn first to the words "any other
person" where the United States argues that it means
innocent person. The words "innocent person" are found
nowhere in Section 107 of CERCLA. To get there, the
United States borrows from other sections of CERCLA. If
the word other were superfluous -- and we do not think
it is, we do not think that's the right reading -- the
better textual reading here is the natural reading of
Section 107. These are two sections that are
practically twins and if words are known by the company
they keep, you have three parallel structures in each of
these cost recovery sections.
And further, we point out that the
Government's argument leads to an implausible result.
If people have to prove their innocence in order to
qualify for a cost recovery claim, then there would be,
indeed, a possible multiyear trial just in order to
decide whether they had a right to cost recovery. A far
better approach would be not to destroy a cost recovery
claim after that work but to allow those issues, that is
a plaintiff's potential liability under 107, to be
raised as a contribution counterclaim. And that way you
have an incentive for settlement between that private
plaintiff and the defendants, and that way you have
equity being done.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why wouldn't the States
prefer to proceed, to force people to proceed under 113,
so that the States would have, you know, a hand in
deciding how the cleanup should go? I don't -- I don't
quite understand why you're here. I would have thought
that the States' interest would be similar to the
Government's.
MR. GECK: The States recognize that to
proceed under settlement puts a near impossible task.
EPA, of course, can settle very few sites, they have
limited resources, and that's one of the reasons why we
don't have settlements in many cases. And apparently
they sometimes have disincentives for proceeding with a
settlement because it would open the Government to a
contribution claim. The States also have some other
resource limits.
The States in order to go into a settlement,
and this is an important point, the Government is
blurring the State settlement right here. It's
referring to a cost recovery right which the States
could seek under Section 107 of CERCLA, but there's a
great deal of uncertainty as to whether a State
settlement that orders a cleanup would be a resolution
of CERCLA liability, and a Second Circuit case from Con
Edison that's pending before this Court discusses that
at length. Uncertainty does not drive settlement.
You asked a question, Justice Scalia, about
other reasons why there are incentives for settlement,
and I'd point out a third, fourth and fifth one. One,
you do get to settle your claims that the Government is
bringing against you, which is a powerful incentive to
settle, to have peace with the Government in certainty.
And then a further point is that you get no better
remedy necessarily. There is no reason to walk away
from the settlement with the Government, and I don't
believe the Government can point to any examples where
people have walked away from settlements in order to
pursue 107 claims, because 107 doesn't necessarily lead
to a windfall. If you're a liable person or potentially
liable person, you're going to see your defendants raise
your liability and they are going to interpose a
cross-claim under Section 113.
And finally --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that how it
works? They would have to, if you bring a 107 action,
the defendant has to bring his responsive action under
113? Or is it as, I guess your friend had stated
earlier, equitable principles are going to lead to an
allocation of responsibility under 107?
MR. GECK: I would rely first on the textual
basis, that any person can bring a cost recovery claim.
And then the text in Section 113(f)(1) says that any
person sued under Section 107 may bring their
contribution claim against any other person. That would
naturally include even the plaintiff in that claim.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The last sentence of
(f)(1), right?
MR. GECK: The fifth sentence of (f)(1) is
what I was referring to. Any person may seek
contribution from -- and this is at 67a of the petition,
and I believe it's 9a or 11a of the U.S. brief -- any
person may seek contribution from any other person who
is liable or potentially liable under Section 107 during
or following the 107 action. A 113 action supplements
the 107 action that the government is so concerned
about.
Turning then to the question that this would
bypass contribution protection: As a threshold matter,
that is an issue that is rooted in the language of
Section 113(f)(2). It is not a signal as to how to
interpret Section 107 itself, because there are a host
of potential 107 actions that might come to bear that
the United States admits to and those actions could
equally be posed. But more importantly perhaps is that
because any person who does a settlement with the
Government would raise their settlement either as a
defense or as a counterclaim, as my colleague said, the
court would have the authority under 113(f)(1), the
third sentence, there to allocate and apportion
responsibility among all liable persons. And at that
point, if it had been a judicial settlement that would
be very strong evidence that you had paid your
proportionate share to the site.
Furthermore, what the Government is
overlooking is the settlements, there are a number of
checks and balances on settlements. This is not a real
world problem that the Government describing. The
matters addressed, provision of the settlement that the
EPA very carefully crafts, doesn't overreach.
Occasionally it will, but when it does address an entire
cleanup at a site that signals that the EPA is going to
be in control of the cleanup for the remainder of the
site and you're not going to have unknown parties coming
in and entering a site.
To do so would be in fact inconsistent
with the national contingency plan and you would never
make the elements of proving consistency with the
national consistency plan in triggering a 107 right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the meaning of that
last sentence in (f)(1), "Nothing in this subsection
shall diminish the right of any person to bring an
action of contribution in the absence of a civil
action," of a civil action under 9606 or 9607? What are
they referring to.
MR. GECK: Well, it clearly indicates that
there is a savings for other contribution rights that
may exist under other areas of law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: State law?
MR. GECK: State law is certainly a
possibility there and that would of course be a stronger
indicator that you could give a broader reading to
contribution protection under (f)(2) and that's what
several courts have done. But the scope of whether a
State law meets contribution protection has been debated
in the courts and it's of course not before us today.
In the end, the last and most important
point is that the Government's construction not only
bars cost recovery from potentially liable persons even
an innocent person who reads Section 107 would not step
forward. If you touch a site and you begin operating
and moving waste -- and Mr. Chief Justice, your
hypothetical about a do-gooder organization that might
come in and do cleanups. There is a good likelihood
that they would be receiving a counterclaim that would
say that they had operated the site and become a liable
party. And that could litigate for years.
So in the end, in the end of the case, the
United States leaves no incentive for private cost
recovery and there are 400,000 sites that do need
cleanup, and Congress did contemplate there would be two
cause of actions, one under 107 for cost recovery when
people had incurred costs, and the other one would be
for contribution when people had been sued or had
settled their civil suit liability.
If there is no further questions, thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Geck.
(Whereupon, at 10:57 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
Mr. Hungar, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS G. HUNGAR
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. HUNGAR: Mr. Chief Justice:
Justice Souter, in further answer to your
question, EPA can and does send PRP letters to Federal
PRPs without approval from the Justice Department. The
approval is only for a unilateral administrative order
under Section 106.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So the only thing they
would need the Attorney General's approval for would be
institution of suit?
MR. HUNGAR: Or a unilateral administrative
order.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Could they institute suit?
MR. HUNGAR: Well, in our view the EPA can't
sue the Department of Defense because there would be no
justiciable controversy.
With respect to the implied repeal issue
that was discussed, we disagree strongly with the
assertion that there was this unanimous group of ten or
some cases prior to 1986. In fact the cases were
divided, as we explain in our reply brief.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But even if there wasn't,
you wouldn't have your principal argument, which is, you
know, which is that the reason not to interpret 107 the
way your friends on the other side want is that you're
going to destroy the settlement provision of 113, which
didn't use to exist. What argument would you make for
having us read the word "other" in the what seems to me
strange way you want?
MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, the point is that
the settlement bar under their interpretation is either
eviscerated, as Respondents amici argue, or that's the
position that they take, that they want to be able to
sue for cost recovery and evade the settlement bar.
Respondent of course doesn't make that argument because
they don't have to in this case. But unless the Court
imports the settlement bar into cost recovery actions,
there's going to be this huge problem. And if the Court
does import --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're missing my point.
My point is the settlement bar didn't used to exist. So
previously, whether the cases were split or not, there
was -- your best argument for the proposition that
107(a) does not permit suit did not exist.
MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, as I understand the
argument it's that there was this unanimous pre-1986
body of law and it was completely clear and perfectly
understood that there was this cause of action.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Assume it didn't exist.
Assume that body of law didn't exist. But what would
you have argued when somebody came in and said 107, this
provision, includes PRPs? You may have argued -- your
best argument would not have been available.
MR. HUNGAR: But, Your Honor, the point is
it was not clear in 1986 what this language meant and
what the extent of the PRP rights were. Congress
addressed that question. There is not a hint of a
suggestion in the legislative history that Congress was
recognizing a PRP action under 107 independent of
Section 113. Congress spoke to the question of PRPs
suing and the only way it spoke to it explicitly was in
Section 113. When Congress says that, this Court has
said over and over again that when Congress speaks in an
area of uncertainty, as in Fausto, as in Brock against
North Dakota, as in the State of Vermont, is where the
prior asserted right was not clearly established, was
not authoritatively recognized, it's not an implied
repeal question. It's a question of reconciling the
statutes in a way that gives effect to the later
statutes, a more specific statute.
Which as here, Section 113, their
interpretation gives effect to part of it because they
say oh well, let's borrow a settlement bar to make it
all work, but you can't do -- you can't do it that way.
The Court rejected that very same approach in the Rancho
Palos Verdes case from a couple of terms ago.
We agree that you need to borrow the
limitations of Section 113(f). You just need to borrow
all of them, including the one that they can't satisfy,
which is that Congress said for suits by PRPs against
PRPs, just like is normally the case among joint tort
feasors, it's a contribution suit and they have to wait
for a law suit or for a settlement, or some discharge of
the liability. And that also avoids burdening the
courts with the extremely time-consuming and costly and
difficult question of assessing whether the NCP has been
complied with, whether the costs comply with the
national contingency plan. Because if they settled,
then the expert agency has already had a chance to
address that and the court doesn't need to get into it
in anywhere near the same detail. Their approach is a
recipe for burdening the Federal courts with claims that
Congress did not clearly indicate should be there.
If States want to provide contribution
actions that allow these sorts of claims they can, and
many States have done so, including Washington State,
which is here. So parties can bring these claims in
State court if they want to. They can get settlements
from the States if they want to and are willing to pay
the costs. So the burdens that they identify are not
there. Implied repeal does not apply here and because
of the uncertainty, as we indicated at pages 9 through
10 of our reply brief and footnote 5, there was no
unanimous widespread consensus among the Federal courts.
This just hasn't come up very much, and the courts were
divided. I'd also like to address -- thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Hungar. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:02 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
additional 18:12 26:24 ARC's 33:24 Atlantic 1:6 3:5
51:16 49:18 55:8,24 36:12 areas 50:10 attempt 16:24
addressed 10:25 America 6:10 argue 29:16 17:4,5 20:6
33:1 38:7 39:10 23:6 44:15,21 argument 1:12 29:7 52:2
40:2 49:16 53:25 52:25 2:2,5,8,12 3:3 authoritatively
adjoining 35:20 amicus 35:8 3:7 27:18 5:1 54:10
52:4 answer 7:25 arisen 11:2 available 24:16
43:5 38:10 51:21 2:6 27:17,18 avoid 11:7 14:21
admit 25:25 anyway 22:13 27:20 28:19 32:14
5:14,22 advantage 6:14 appeals 11:9 32:6,12 33:1,8 awful 25:19
8:5,11,21 advised 34:13 21:22 22:4,23 33:12 34:8,24 awkward 31:14
10:19 affirmative 8:21 APPEARAN... 35:6,14,17 A.L.R 10:23
14:22 35:25 1:14 37:17,20 38:19 a.m 1:13 3:2
19:1 afford 43:20 appearing 39:3 39:23 40:1,11 51:15 56:2
25:1 agency 15:14 appears 26:20 40:13 42:5,9
55:7 appendix 26:21 42:12,18,25 B
29:16 ago 54:19 applies 23:5 43:7,14 44:3 b 4:13,13 6:17
31:25 agree 4:12,17 26:19 44:12 7:9,12 8:19
33:20 37:13 54:20 apply 15:19 24:5 arrangers 7:7 9:21 10:3,6
35:23,25 agreed 30:8 24:10 30:18 aside 18:20 41:13
37:15,24 agreement 14:8 55:19 asked 47:5 back 14:17
41:16 31:6,9 32:8 apportion 49:7 asks 3:25 20:19 33:19
47:23,24 33:20 approach 8:17 asserted 43:22 37:5,11 38:17
agreements 21:22,22 45:22 43:22 54:9 balance 27:13
53:16 13:22 15:21 54:18 55:9 assertion 52:12 balances 49:14
Ah 29:12 appropriate assessing 55:4 bankrupt 30:7
27:10,10 al 1:21 2:10 appropriately 16:18 21:23,24 22:2
37:9 44:15 14:5 assets 30:12,13 22:24 23:8
49:1 ALITO 10:16 approval 15:17 assume 7:24 26:6,12,19
53:5 allocate 49:7 17:8,21 51:23 23:22 43:18 27:9,22 44:2,8
allocating 30:18 51:24 52:2 53:17,18 52:24 53:2,5,9
11:24 12:1,10 51:15 53:4 34:21 35:1,12 19:16 22:13
2:4,7,10 35:23 36:6,14 cases 7:21 10:17 51:14,20 55:25 47:1 49:19,20
3:8 27:19 37:8 38:3 10:21,24 15:5 choice 32:11 51:8
51:19 41:16 47:23,24 15:21,25 16:1 choices 31:23 cleanups 3:24
31:8 55:15 34:9 35:8 36:9 circuit 11:3 51:1
34:8 bringing 8:11 36:17 37:21,23 14:19 19:20 clear 3:22 5:6,8
37:21 14:21 20:17 42:10 46:15 47:2 6:17 10:3
39:6 47:9 52:13,13 53:10 circumstance 11:13 12:14
brings 11:25 categories 6:14 30:4 16:16 22:4
43:1,20 34:2 7:3,7 8:1 circumstances 23:6 33:14
44:8 broad 40:14 category 5:21 9:12 24:21 37:4 38:6
48:14 broader 50:14 7:16,17 8:15 33:21 40:16 41:11
Brock 54:7 cause 4:10,14,18 cite 16:4 35:4 53:15,23
20:2 27:10 19:1 42:23 citizen 18:19 50:8 54:9
45:7,8 46:24 43:19,21,25 collects 10:21,23
21:6 carefully 24:1 37:23 38:4 23:22 26:19 coming 49:21
28:12,22 49:17 39:13 44:6 38:9 44:6 47:8 commentary
31:12 case 3:4 4:9,20 50:12 47:16 55:10,13 41:21
37:11 8:8,14 18:15 certainty 47:10 55:15 common 36:22
19:21 29:11 30:17 changed 41:20 40:3 41:8 45:13
consistently cooperative court 1:1,12 41:22 46:25
3:19 9:15 3:5 5:9 7:24 8:12 debate 41:22
construe 10:15 6:13 21:21 24:2 decide 45:21
contaminated 30:15,23 31:2 28:1,2,3,9,9,20 deciding 46:7
contemplate 34:25 37:16,17 31:9 32:13,13 deemed 38:21
38:23 contributed 26:17 27:24 22:4,23 36:12 defense 7:1,13
19:6 29:6 35:15 36:21 37:6 7:15 8:3,4 17:3
13:6 20:6,14 48:4 50:21 covered 35:21 25:5,7 35:22
10:8,10 23:5,7,10,15 costly 55:3 crafts 49:17 defenses 7:15,20
24:1 23:18,20,22 costs 3:14 4:11 create 4:1 7:13 8:19,20
27:8 24:15,24 26:1 9:13,23,23,24 7:14 defined 13:9
36:16 26:19 28:7 9:25 13:9,21 created 3:12 defining 23:21
37:1,5 29:22 30:17 14:6,14 22:9 12:19 definitely 16:14
38:6 31:3 36:18,22 22:12,13 33:15 creates 4:14,18 definition 10:5
51:8 36:24 37:2 33:24 34:17 criteria 36:2 30:20,22 41:5
54:1,3,5 38:2,3 39:25 38:17,22,25 critical 40:22 delineated 24:4
55:11 41:24 43:3,12 40:6,12 44:24 cross-claim demanding
23:21 45:25 46:18 counsel 40:16 cross-referenc... Department
48:7,13,15,21 counterclaim 41:7 1:16 14:10
3:17 44:20 39:3 Deputy 1:15,20
controversy course 13:25 D 49:15
50:1 Cooper 3:21 5:2 30:3 43:22 7:13 44:14 destroy 45:22
39:4 drive 47:4 enter 12:3 21:10 27:12 53:2 extent 37:13,14
duplication entering 49:22 evidence 49:10 extremely 55:3
E entities 9:25 eviscerating 50:3,15
16:7 Edison 47:3 15:16,20,23 36:13 52:13
Eighth 14:19 19:15,17,22 41:22,23 32:15
22:9 element 8:21 31:20 34:2 25:15,15 12:9,11
38:4,5 46:13 49:17,19 exert 39:19 falling 20:22
49:25 EPA's 20:9 10:22 far 45:21
32:13 enacted 10:17 31:18 32:20,22 53:9,12,17,18 Fausto 54:7
enactment 41:2 equity 28:2,5,6 15:13 feasors 54:25
14:16 19:15 escape 21:3 expert 55:7 15:14,22 16:5
20:21 enforced 3:21 20:3 explanation 55:10,22
18:18 establish 24:22 10:13 feel 30:2 31:21
engage 31:6,9 et 1:21 2:10 54:4 finally 47:21
10:2,6,9 17:8,21 52:2 38:9,15 39:15 24:21 25:3,23 ignores 45:1
21:20 Ginsburg 4:7,21 40:19,23 41:1 27:4,5 28:19 imagine 28:25
40:15,24 12:24 13:11,24 41:13,15 46:17 29:10,19 30:15 40:14
48:3 14:17 19:19 46:21 47:8,10 30:24 32:6 immunity 38:8
48:17 38:12 governmental 36:6 38:19 impeccable 43:1
24:22 27:7 34:1 36:8 52:23 53:13,22 implicating
45:6 gives 39:16 group 52:12 34:19 39:4 52:10 54:10
glided 9:8 47:25 2:13 3:6,7,9 import 53:7
37:15 26:9 27:2,6 H 6:21 7:4 8:6,12 importantly
goes 22:3 harmonize 15:3,15 16:4,9 27:8
21:2 25:17,19 hazardous 16:17 18:2,8,11,17 impossible
29:4 31:12 25:12 44:20 20:24 21:17,20 incentive 15:9
47:11 41:12 44:22 held 5:2 7:21 23:17 24:11,20 21:24 39:5
47:18,19 48:1 11:7 22:4 25:3,10,13,22 46:1 47:9 51:6
53:6 high-risk 13:14 51:17,18,20 47:6
51:18 govern 22:5 home 12:6 29:18 29:20 35:10,19 including 24:4
government honor 4:12 6:5 55:14
48:3,11 3:23 12:2,3,4 6:16 7:4 9:18 I inconsistent
51:14 12:17,18,21 12:11 13:5,16 idea 5:23 49:23
40:7 interpretation 25:11,16 26:13 42:3 43:24 48:16 49:8
12:12 21:10 26:22 27:15,20 48:22 53:23 50:21 51:3
54:15 30:25 31:5,12 43:8 3:21 24:5 27:7
39:14 involve 8:23 33:25 34:21 36:22 43:2,18 limited 30:12
involvement 40:5,12 41:18 lawsuit 11:15,18 lined 26:7
15:18 18:22 43:25 44:11,17 lawsuits 44:8 listing 30:9
11:4 52:10 48:9 50:2,11 lead 47:16 48:1 litigate 23:25
37:1 issues 8:7,13,14 50:24 51:14,20 leads 45:17 51:4
52:6,15 53:8 leaves 51:6 litigation 12:18
JAY 1:20 2:9 justiciable 52:9 legal 18:12 43:13,15,18
job 15:9,10 K 13:3 little 29:2
27:18 31:5 letter 17:16,17 look 11:19 13:12
10:18 judicially 38:10 5:10 38:4,5 letters 51:22 looking 25:17
jury 28:1 kick 19:9 let's 7:24 14:17 36:16
25:1,18 Justice 1:16 3:3 kidding 21:3,12 18:14 54:16 lot 25:19 35:13
35:20 3:9 4:7,21 5:12 kind 13:13 liabilities 18:4 loves 21:4,12
50:22 5:23 6:2,6,9,19 know 6:2 7:23 liability 9:22 lower 7:21 10:24
10:9,10
monitor 34:3 36:25 46:17 Palos 54:19
28:5,6 morning 3:4 notices 16:23 operators 7:7 Pardon 6:6
29:8,21 motivating novel 11:1 opinion 28:14 part 30:7 31:3
33:17 32:19 number 10:24 opportunities 34:20 39:3
48:21 moving 50:24 15:4,6,22 16:4 14:11 40:3 42:6
56:3 multiyear 45:20 18:11 22:3 opportunity 54:15
31:10 numerous 15:21 30:1 31:17 4:19 6:22
38:1,7 N 18:24 45:2,3 35:24 38:24
41:24 N 2:1,1 3:1 opposing 40:16 parties 3:13
naming 17:9 O option 15:5 4:11,14,15,19
7:14 8:9 34:18 38:22 object 30:2 3:7 27:18 6:22 7:17 13:7
11:11 39:1,2,8,21 33:17 44:14 13:17 14:12
16:14 49:24 50:1 objections 24:9 order 3:23 10:11 18:3 21:24
22:9 55:6 obligations 11:7 12:13 22:12,21 24:14
32:10 natural 9:15 18:12 15:18 18:23 26:9 28:15
43:18 45:11 obtain 13:20 20:13 22:17 30:1,12 31:17
NCP 55:4 25:25 39:9 38:16 45:18,20 44:23,23 49:21
45:5 necessarily obtained 26:10 51:24 52:5 party 6:3,11,22
necessary 7:9 8:13 37:22,25 47:1 10:18,18 16:2
11:7 40:12 Occasionally 50:25 24:8,19,23,24
55:8 occupy 15:24 OWEN 1:18 2:6 39:10 40:20
20:10 odd 8:23 41:19 owner 25:14,17 passed 10:11
22:17,18 North 54:8 ones 29:5 paid 23:13 26:10 9:1,1,10 24:13
Northwest open 20:20 49:10 30:11 31:20
35:4 47:14 49:9 principal 52:16 27:1 33:19 put 13:13
45:18 50:20 52:23 principle 32:2 protection 26:11 puts 14:1 46:12
47:15 53:8,9,22 principles 30:18 28:4,10,17
pointed 28:3,6 31:18 32:2,7 38:2 39:17 Q
53:12 polluters 26:7 private 4:10,14 43:16 44:2 5:10 11:4,17
8:1,11 28:11 6:11,18,21,22 provides 4:10 24:2 29:20
11:21 posed 33:17 15:8,8 18:3 9:21 43:10 47:5
26:13,14 49:2 19:3,3,17 providing 12:15 48:20 51:22
27:2 position 26:25 32:23 44:22,23 12:15 53:25 54:3,11
35:21 31:14 33:10 46:1 51:6 proving 49:25 54:11 55:4
43:10 53:1 problem 16:18 provision 13:7 questions 10:25
42:1 possibility 50:13 16:19 18:23 38:5 43:11,20 51:13
47:17 possible 40:9 19:7 49:15 44:7 49:16 quite 33:13 37:4
48:4,6,7 45:20 53:6 52:19 53:20 38:6 40:16,22
potential 45:24 problems 5:15 provisions 5:20 43:15 46:8
50:4,22 48:25 26:2,4 7:11 10:12 quotation 6:4
9:3,11 47:17 48:16 procedures 12:20 14:15,23 R
49:8 50:21 14:11 19:2,3,3 20:11 R 3:1
powerful 38:18 proceed 15:14 23:18 25:18,20 raise 47:18 49:4
2:4,14 3:8 45:13 proceeding 35:24 37:24 read 5:4 7:5
practice 15:7 16:15 46:16 38:25 39:14,17 11:11 32:23
28:16 29:7 program 13:17 PRPs 3:14 4:15 reading 9:15,19
39:1,2,8 prefer 46:5 proof 38:24 12:12,16 14:6 45:11 50:14
49:24 preliminary proper 28:24 15:22 16:23 reads 50:22
55:6 16:17 proportion 17:3,19 22:7 real 10:17 29:4
44:18 presently 15:13 33:24 49:11 36:10,14 37:8 really 9:22
19:8 presumably proposition 53:20 54:3,23 reason 13:21
21:23 30:3 35:13 53:11 54:24 14:3 38:2
25:16 previously protect 22:25 publicly 30:1 47:12 52:17
42:14,15 42:23 53:10 23:2 purchaser 25:15 reasonable
45:16 pre-1986 53:14 protected 21:25 purposes 31:11 26:24
47:7,11 primarily 12:8 22:24 26:14 pursue 47:16 reasons 31:15
47:6
51:18 54:18 Research's 20:5 reviewing 32:12 54:5
46:11 release 16:17 20:7,13 25:23 36:14,21,23,24 42:2,6,10,13
relegated 24:24 29:24 45:10,21 46:22 46:4 47:5 48:9
relief 3:17 resources 13:14 50:1,4 54:9 53:8,17
48:3 respect 6:21 53:24 37:19
30:13 remaining 51:17 respondent 1:19 9:5,8 23:1,12 29:14 39:22,23
34:16 remedial 43:10 1:22 2:7,11 24:6,17,25 40:21 41:11,14
remediates 3:14,25 4:3 25:8,11,16 47:2
20:6 remediating 27:19 44:16 34:21 35:1,12 3:20 4:2,3,9,13
23:9,10 39:16 53:3 35:16 44:11 5:14,20 7:2,5
24:13,23 remedies 27:8 respondents 47:22 51:14 11:5,6,13
27:24 remedy 3:16 4:3 11:9 52:25 55:25 12:20 13:6
36:6,15 5:6,7 12:15 Respondent's rooted 48:22 15:19,19 20:11
44:24 24:4,4 47:12 3:18 21:22 roundabout 22:2,5,25 23:9
remember 11:2 23:6 27:12 33:19 23:23,25 26:11
48:4 44:7 response 3:14 rule 24:12 33:18 26:18,18,20
51:7,9 rendered 9:4 7:9 12:22 13:9 33:18 35:12 38:5 41:5 45:7
renders 3:20 13:21 21:11 45:12 46:24
42:19 52:10 responses 15:3 satisfies 36:1 50:22 51:25
16:20 reply 52:14 13:4 14:21 7:20 25:6 sections 7:1 27:6
40:16 represent 20:11 48:2 49:8 satisfying 34:15 see 31:7 47:18
46:23 36:9 15:1 23:13,14 saves 37:25 36:19 46:24
50:7 required 13:19 30:12 savings 50:9 48:12,15
requirement 4:4 47:24 saying 21:8 23:13,18 27:6
39:15 requires 13:7 result 33:23 11:14,20 17:25 send 17:16,18
3:5 19:23 20:2 31:18,25 32:3 38:15 40:6 sending 17:11
38:20 53:2,5,9 54:16 six-year 37:7 14:12 15:5 strange 52:22
9:2 48:9 12:3 18:25 12:11 20:22 39:14 43:18,19 strong 39:5
49:7 21:10 22:6 21:16,21 43:21 46:22,25 42:21 49:10
26:9 27:11 slightly 31:14 50:11,12,17 stronger 50:13
32:21,23 37:21 Solicitor 1:15,20 stated 39:2 structure 8:13
16:24 46:15 47:15 solution 26:4 statement 15:12 stuck 31:15
18:3,5 49:13,14 55:16 solutions 26:2 states 1:1,3,12 studies 35:8
settles 12:20,21 somebody 53:19 3:4 6:10 9:12 subdivision 25:2
20:5 settling 14:22 sorry 7:14 25:10 9:16 10:1,1,5 subject 4:17
28:5,8 38:9,20 sort 5:6 12:21 13:1,11 7:17 9:2,7
29:17 shadow 4:1 sorts 55:13 13:12,25 14:2 39:13
31:21 share 18:4 19:4 sought 4:5 14:5,6,20,20 submit 23:19
38:18,21 33:24 49:11 Souter 5:12,23 14:25 15:5 27:5
46:13 shell 22:18 6:2,6,9,19,25 16:13 19:21 submitted 51:16
shelling 22:21 7:23 8:9,16 20:8,15 40:4 56:1,3
26:13,25 showing 39:20 16:11,25 17:2 44:21 45:1,5,8 4:13 6:8,17
29:8 side 12:8,8 17:7,13,17,20 46:4,6,9,11,18 7:12,13 9:21
55:6 20:25 21:8,14 17:24 18:6,9 46:20,23 49:1 10:2,2,4
12:6 52:18 37:10,18 51:21 55:17 7:13
signal 48:23 52:1,6 State's 14:14 subsection 8:19
13:6,19 signals 49:19 so-called 6:23 statute 6:23 7:11 50:3
14:4,8 significant 8:20 35:20 8:24 9:1,3,10 subsections 7:2
15:21 18:24 36:10 9:19,20 26:23 7:14
21:23,24 similar 46:9 speaks 54:6 27:3,11 31:4 subsequent
23:8 simply 28:6 specific 54:13 34:22 36:4,8 25:14,17
26:6,10 32:21 40:25 specifically 24:3 40:24 41:12 sue 4:19 6:7,8
27:1 41:15 36:23 54:13 11:5,6 12:16
28:4 sir 10:20 spend 13:14 statutes 54:12 16:13 17:10
29:23,25 site 5:25 14:10 30:22 54:13 21:4,12 22:10
15:1 16:16 spending 29:20 statutory 3:19 22:24 24:13,14
32:8 34:12 39:11,16 spends 29:3 4:17 7:5,18 29:5 52:8 53:2
40:3,3,20 split 53:10 10:9 sued 12:5 28:15
34:4 44:25 49:11,19 spoke 54:3,4 stay 12:2,5 39:12,13 48:6
38:4 49:21,22 50:23 standards 13:20 step 50:22 51:11
51:3 15:24 19:5 STEVENS sufficient 16:21
42:22 sites 13:14 15:8 start 25:17 30:20,25 43:9 suggest 5:5
45:3 35:2 44:19,21 State 6:8 9:12 43:25 suggestion 11:1
45:1 46:13 9:17 10:6 stipulate 28:13 13:1 54:1
47:1,4,6 51:7 12:21,25 13:3 28:24 suing 21:3 54:4
49:3,4,9 sitting 28:1 13:3,7,8,9,16 stipulated 33:2 suit 11:22,23,24
12:1 term 13:9 40:25 three 45:14 unanimously 19:5
51:12 terminated threshold 48:21 42:4 vary 19:5
53:12 19:24 tied 6:11 uncertainty vast 45:1
55:1 terms 23:21 time 27:14 36:11 46:25 47:4 Verdes 54:19
39:9,25 Texas 37:1 time-consuming undercut 32:15 versus 3:4
54:23 text 48:5 55:3 understand 46:8 victims 24:12
45:9 45:11 48:3 tort 54:24 understanding 7:18 13:5
44:17 51:13,14 traditional 22:19 23:20 26:8 52:7
Thanks 44:11 traveling 35:3 53:16 virtue 9:3 10:6
44:16 thereon 24:5 tribe 9:13,17 Unfortunately voluntarily
22:15 27:23 tribes 10:1 unilateral 15:18 voluntary 13:17
23:1,2 things 21:2 Tronic 4:9,24 Union 29:4,6 W
34:14 31:21 5:4,10 30:7 wait 54:25
12:8 36:7 14:20,20,25 14:1,13 20:22
32:7 33:2,9,13 6:20 20:12,14 44:25 45:5,8 28:13,14,18,23
26:25 36:7 37:3,22 turn 29:1 30:8 unknown 49:21 32:21,24 52:18
44:22 37:22,25 38:1 44:23 45:4 unnecessarily 52:22 53:1
38:6,19 40:8 Turning 48:20 30:6 55:12,16,17
18:10 25:4,15 47:7 32:1 39:18 urges 40:8 Wash 1:21
49:7 45:12 51:8 usage 8:24 Washington 1:8
51:18 ultimate 8:18 usually 30:25 55:14
15:6 52:16 107(a)(1) 4:13 50:15
19:16 write 28:14 31:3 107(a)(4)(a) 2000 35:9
27:7 written 13:22 41:16 2007 1:9
33:10 14:4 32:2 107(a)(4)(b) 23 1:9
45:25 34:18 27:24 28:4 24 19:21
52:18,22 wrong 4:8 32:19 33:19 35:6,15 27 2:7
42:11 35:21 36:10,15
x 1:2,7 107(b) 36:1,3 300 34:20 39:3
Y 25:2
32:3 51:4 11a 48:14 4 4:13 41:13,13
43:13,15 22:5 26:23
0 29:17 31:16 5
55:21
37:22 38:2,4
2:14
10 36:9 55:21 54:3,5,14
106 51:25 54:21 9
45:9 106(1) 15:19 113(f)(1) 48:5 9 55:20
107 3:17 4:9 49:6 9a 26:20 48:14
45:4,6 15:19 22:2 23:9 26:20 9606 50:6
23:23 26:18,23 43:11 48:23 9607 22:17 50:6
27:3 29:16 31:16,25 40:4
45:23 32:4 37:12,15 12 10:23
38:5 42:3,23 161 10:23
47:23 46:24 47:16,16 37:7
39:11 51:9 52:17 1995 35:9
17:10 2
4:2 7:5
