IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
DERRICK KIMBROUGH, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-6330
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 2, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MICHAEL S. NACHMANOFF, ESQ., Federal Public Defender, E.
District of Virginia Alexandria, Va.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MICHAEL S. NACHMANOFF, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 23
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MICHAEL S. NACHMANOFF, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioner 49
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in case 06-6330, Kimbrough versus United States.
Mr. Nachmanoff.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL NACHMANOFF
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. NACHMANOFF: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
Derrick Kimbrough's case is about what a
district court may consider when imposing sentence in
conformity with Section 3553(a).
That statute directs sentencing courts to do
exactly what Judge Jackson did in this case. He
properly calculated and considered the advisory
guideline range, the Sentencing Commission's reports,
Mr. Kimbrough's personal history and background, and the
offense itself, as directed by the statute. He then made
case-specific findings to impose an appropriate
sentence, and he did not make any categorical
determinations.
The Fourth Circuit reversed, applying a
per se rule prohibiting disagreement with the crack
cocaine guideline. The government, on the other hand,
argues that Congress has implicitly directed sentencing
courts to adhere to the crack guidelines.
Both of these positions are wrong.
With respect to the Fourth Circuit, the
Fourth Circuit applied a rigid rule that prohibited any
disagreement with the crack guideline, which is
determined solely by drug type and quantity. They then
prohibited the imposition of any sentence outside the
guideline range, either above it or below it, unless the
court identified facts specific to the defendant or the
offense.
This ruling is inconsistent with the Court's
holdings in Cunningham and Rita, which hold that the
courts must be free to disagree with policies.
Finally, the Fourth Circuit required that
those facts be atypical, which mirrors the exact
language that was excised in 3553(b)(1).
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could the Congress have
mandated the result and the rationale that the Fourth
Circuit used here?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Your Honor, Congress can
certainly speak explicitly through its statutes to
impose further refinements on the penalty structure that
it set out in 841.
Section 841, on its face, does no more than
set mandatory minimums and maximums at two triggering
quantities. If Congress wanted to specify further
triggering quantities which would cabin the discretion
of sentencing courts, they could do so, but they have
not done so and there is no canon of statutory
construction that the government identifies or that I'm
aware of that would justify the notion of the implicit
binding directive.
JUSTICE ALITO: If Congress made a finding
that crack and cocaine are equally dangerous and passed
a statute that said, for sentencing purposes, every
district judge shall treat cases involving these two
substances exactly the same, would there be a Sixth
Amendment problem with that? Or do you think every
district judge gets the right to make that policy
decision individually?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Justice Alito, Congress
certainly can cabin the discretion of judges. But once
they set a floor and a ceiling, pursuant to this Court's
remedial holding in Booker, judges must be free to
consider the entire range of punishment. And Booker
relies on the notion that the Guidelines are now fully
advisory and, therefore, judges without having to
identify specific facts have to have the discretion to
disagree with policies or identify things unique to the
case in order to fashion an appropriate punishment.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What's your answer simply
to the very simple argument that because the floor was
set on the assumption of a 100 to 1 ratio, set by
Congress, that any other sentencing assumption,
regardless of the particular justifications in a given
case, is simply incoherent with the statutory scheme and
for that reason should be regarded as unreasonable?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It is the coherence problem
that is bothering us.
MR. NACHMANOFF: Yes. There are several
answers to that question, Justice Souter. The first is
that this Court has recognized with the same statute
which has the same structure that the government argues
can only logically be understood one way, that with
regard to the weight for LSD in the case of Neal versus
United States, it is perfectly appropriate for there to
be two different methods of calculating weight for
purposes of punishment. The Guidelines calculate weight
based on a presumed weight of the combination of the LSD
and the blotter paper or the carrier medium. And the
statute defines the method for calculating the mandatory
minimum by the combined weight of the LSD and the
blotter paper, regardless of whether it is heavy or
whether it is light.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But is that an argument for
saying, well, in the LSD case, you approved of
incoherence and irrationality, therefore, you want to do
it across the board? I mean, there is still an argument
here on the merits regardless of Neal that there is an
incoherence between the minimum and the kind of
discretion that you're talking about.
MR. NACHMANOFF: Well, Your Honor, I think
what Neal reflects is that there's no implicit binding
policy directive in 841 itself that requires either the
Commission or sentencing courts to follow in lock step
on a graduated proportionate scheme, whatever it is that
Congress decided with respect to two specific triggers
should be the case.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Did we have the cliff
problem in the LSD case?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Yes, Your Honor. The Court
recognized that, in fact, cliffs are the inevitable
results of mandatory minimums.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So we are in the same boat,
then, you say with Neal in that respect, too?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Yes, and Your Honor, if I
could also point out that there really is a myth here
with regard to the 100 to 1 ratio as it stands now and
as the Commission created it in 1987. The 100 to 1
ratio describes the relative weight of crack cocaine and
powder cocaine with regard to the levels in the
sentencing table; so that if you compare, for example,
the 10-year mandatory minimum trigger, 50 grams of
crack, that gets you to a level 32 in the sentencing
table and it requires 5 kilos of powder cocaine or 5,000
grams. That's the 100 to 1 ratio.
And it is true that if one compares the low
end of that table -- 5 kilos to 50 grams, you end up
with the same punishment, or likewise, if you compare
the top of the range, 15 kilos to a 150 grams.
But the way the guidelines have been
written, there are a multitude of ratios that get
applied right now and were applied in the pre-Booker
guidelines scheme.
In other words, 14.9 kilos of powder
compared to 51 grams of crack results in a 292 to 1
ratio. You get the exact same punishment, it is a level
32.
Likewise if you flip it, and you compare 149
grams of crack to 5 kilos of powder cocaine, you are
still within a level 32, and it is a 34 to 1 ratio.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe that was wrong.
Maybe the Sentencing Commission should have, in order to
be faithful to the Congressional determination, should
have done it quite proportionately. I mean, I'm not
hung up on what the Sentencing Commission said. I'm
hung up on what the courts should do now.
MR. NACHMANOFF: I agree, Justice Scalia.
And of course, the Sentencing Commission taken to the
ultimate extreme would have had to have a proportionate
sentencing table by gram or fraction of a gram in order
to preserve the 100 to 1 ratio, which simply points out
in combination with Neal the fact that this was a choice
made by the Commission, a choice, by the way, not
grounded on any empirical evidence or any other reason
other than what 841 originally indicated.
It could have been done differently. It is
done differently with regard to other drugs in 841, such
as LSD or such as marijuana plants, which have a
different method for calculation under the Guidelines as
they do for purposes of mandatory minimums. And, of
course, what that means is that there is no implicit
directive, which is the only rational --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That just goes back to
Justice Scalia's point. There may very well be an
implicit Congressional directive that the Commission did
not follow.
MR. NACHMANOFF: Well -- Your Honor,
Congress has a method --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It did not reject them, you
are saying? So, therefore, in effect, there was a
Congressional ratification?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Well, Congress did not
reject the original table that was created by the
Commission in 1987. That is correct. But Congress also
did not at any time in Section 994, which is where it
has given other explicit directions to the Commission to
fashion guidelines in a particular way, say anything
about how to fashion the punishment for crack cocaine or
any of the other drugs in Section 841.
So Congress understands if it wants to give
further guidance to the Commission how to do it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Nachmanoff, in the
absence of anything further from Congress, and accepting
your argument that there's no -- that the Guidelines did
not have to adopt the ratio that is applicable to the
mandatory minimum, could a district judge then say, I
see that this disparity is untenable, but I think drugs
are a very bad thing, so I'm going to sentence for
powder as high as for crack?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Justice Ginsburg, our rule
certainly contemplates the fact that there may be
circumstances in which district judges may come to
conclusions about the appropriate sentence, taking into
consideration the purposes of sentencing and the
parsimony provision --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if we throw out the
100 to 1, what is the range open to the district
judge -- hundred to one is okay, but I have to use
the -- I'm going to use the crack for both? Or say
there is a difference between the two, so I'm going to
set it at 20 to 1 and another judge 5 to 1.
What is -- are all those reasonable within
the position that you take in this case? Would all
those have to pass muster at the court of appeals level?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Well those certainly are
positions that judges could take. In this particular
case, the judge was presented with information that led
the court to conclude that reducing the sentence for
crack based on the Commission's overwhelming empirical
evidence and penological evidence and the statistical
evidence that was submitted was relevant to the various
factors in 3553(a), in particular the purposes of
sentencing. And that the Guidelines would not be
appropriate and, therefore, a lower sentence would be
appropriate.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if the Fourth Circuit
sees a number of absolutely identical cases exactly like
Mr. Kimbrough's, and it is apparent in one, the
sentencing judge either explicitly or implicitly has
used a 1 to 1, and the next one used 20 to 1, the next
one has used 50 to 1, the next one has used 80 to 1, and
the next one has used 100 to 1, what is it to do under
reasonableness review?
MR. NACHMANOFF: The court of appeals has
been given explicit instruction by this Court that it is
to review all of those sentences under an abuse of
discretion, which means that its job is not to
substitute its judgment for the lower court.
And if those sentencing courts have
articulated reasons and have relied on relevant and
reliable --
JUSTICE ALITO: But the cases are absolutely
identical. Everything is absolutely identical about
them, except for the sentences. Can't introduce any new
variables. What is the court of appeals to do?
This is not a hypothetical situation,
really. This is what courts of appeals who have to see
dozens of these cases have to do. There's a policy
question there. How severely should crack be treated?
What is the substantive review that the court of appeals
is supposed to provide in that situation?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Justice Alito, sentencing
courts now are free to consider the full range of
punishment and to consider the purposes of sentencing in
both issue-specific to the defendant and the offense and
also general policy issues. That is the clear holding
of the Booker remedial opinion and reaffirmed in
Cunningham and in Rita. When judges have that full
discretion to consider the guidelines and follow the
mandates of 3553(a), but then impose a sentence that
meets the purposes of sentencing and is consistent with
the parsimony provision, there may well be judges that
come to different conclusions, as your hypothetical
posits, about what people with similar or even identical
records and identical circumstances may -- may do.
I would say that the reality is in the
lower courts no two cases are alike, and so there are
always reasons for judges to make reasoned distinctions
in imposing sentences, even where, for example, the drug
type and quantity is identical.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I take it your answer
is that all or most of those cases would be affirmed
under reasonableness -- under abuse of discretion
review?
MR. NACHMANOFF: If -- yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: If you were representing
the one who got the 80 to 1 ratio you would file an
amicus brief, no error in judgment?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Well, Justice Souter, if
the court followed the procedural requirements of
3553(a), if the information was subjected to the
adversarial process, and if the court imposed a sentence
consistent with the parsimony clause, it would be hard
to imagine a basis upon which to object.
JUSTICE BREYER: The basis is that that
would be the end of the Guidelines. I mean, that --
every judge has his own view of policy and there is a
vast range. No point having advice -- I mean, fine,
but I don't think this Court said it, and I think that
the test is supposed to be reasonableness, and I think
3553(a) does have a lot of instructions, and one of the
major thrusts is follow the Guidelines. It doesn't make
them mandatory. But they're in there.
All right, so the problem for me is just
what Justice Alito was saying: Is there a path here
between saying, well, judge, leaving everything special
about your case out of it -- we're only talking about a
judge who says there's nothing special about my case --
I disagree with the policy of the commission.
In such a case, is there a choice between
saying that no matter what the commission says, the
court of appeals must insist that their district judges
follow in terms of a policy; and the opposite, which is
to say they don't have to do anything that the
commission says, because the commission is always
choosing among reasonable choices. Very rarely -- maybe
you have one in this case -- but very rarely is it
totally unreasonable.
How do we thread the channel?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Justice Breyer, the Booker
remedial opinion makes it crystal-clear that to avoid
the Sixth Amendment problem with the mandatory
Guidelines, judges must be free to disagree with the
Guidelines.
JUSTICE BREYER: To the extent that it's
reasonable, and where we're talking about individual
cases we've already said, given the history of our legal
system, it's very reasonable to give lots of discretion
to the district judge.
Now we're talking about what's reasonable in
the context of 3553(a); and I don't think Booker says
one way or the other on that, nor I do believe Rita says
one way or the other.
MR. NACHMANOFF: Your Honor, 3553(a) is
driven by the purposes of sentencing.
JUSTICE BREYER: Driven by a Congress that
wrote guidelines; and at the last minute, in a separate
matter that we've taken out and wasn't put in the
initial draft added the word "mandatory." So the
history of 3553(a) is a history of a statute that is
seeking uniformity through guidelines.
At least that's my view of it. And for
purposes of the question, which is an important question
to me, let's assume that.
MR. NACHMANOFF: Well, Your Honor, the
appellate courts still have a role to play and that role
is to ensure that the sentencing courts have followed
the mandate of 3553(a), and that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Indeed, it may be quite
impossible to achieve uniformity through advisory
guidelines, which is why Congress made them mandatory.
(Laughter.)
MR. NACHMANOFF: That very well may be,
Justice Scalia. In -- this Court even in the remedial
opinion in Booker recognized that uniformity as it was
understood in the pre-Booker days would be reduced, and
that there might be more sentences that have different
results --
JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, I'm
assuming now you have not -- you don't have a good
answer to my question. You're saying either we have to
make it unconstitutional, which I don't think they are,
or you have to say anything goes, and that my question
has no answer in your view?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Well, Justice Breyer, your
question certainly is a difficult one. Let me say this:
With regard to uniformity, Congress has the power to
make sentences more uniform. They can do it in a
variety of ways and they have done it where they've
thought it was important. They haven't done it with
regard to the 100 to 1 ratio beyond the mandatory
minimum or the statutory maximum.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you don't say -- you
don't say anything goes. I mean, the hypothetical that
Justice Alito gave is -- is easy, only because Congress
has created the 100 to 1 ratio as presumably reasonable.
If Congress enacted it as a statute, it has to be
reasonable.
So that enables you to say anything from 1
to 1 to 100 to 1 is reasonable. But your position is
not anything goes. It's anything that's reasonable
goes.
MR. NACHMANOFF: That is correct, Justice
Scalia. And --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And is "reasonable"
defined as an appropriate interpretation of
congressional intent, or does "reasonable" mean
something else, like a just sentence? What -- how do we
define "reasonable"?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Well, Your Honor, I think
that that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Whether or not the
commission and then the district judge reasonably
interpret the congressional intent, and if the
commission reasonably interprets the congressional
intent is the district court allowed to disregard that?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Sentencing courts must be
able to disagree with the commission's conclusions about
congressional intent.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Assuming the commission
was reasonable, can they still disagree?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Yes, Your Honor. I think
that is the essence of the Booker remedial holding, that
in order to cure the constitutional problem with
mandatory guidelines, judges must be free to reject,
must be free to reject those guidelines. And in fact
Cunningham makes that clear, that in the California
determinate sentencing area it was the inability of
judges to impose a higher sentence based on the general
objectives of sentencing, as opposed to particular
factors or circumstances in aggravation, that made it
unconstitutional. So whether the commission concluded
that the congressional intent was to import the 100 to 1
ratio or not -- and clearly there is no statutory
construction that can be inferred or understood from 841
by itself. It is not explicit and the government
concedes that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So in your case you ask us
to establish the proposition that in any case, a
sentencing judge must always be free to disregard a
reasonable interpretation of the Commission, a
reasonable interpretation of a congressional statute?
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I interrupt before you
answer. The question isn't whether they can justify a
reasonable. It's whether they can justify not following
one that creates unwarranted disparities within the
meaning of the statute.
MR. NACHMANOFF: That's -- that's correct,
Justice Stevens.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You would go further --
you would go further and -- and submit to us the
proposition that I -- that I just stated?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Well, Your Honor, if -- if
I understood it correctly, the question is whether or
not when the commission concludes this is what Congress
intended --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Reasonably.
MR. NACHMANOFF: -- reasonably -- does it
somehow imbue that particular guideline with some
special binding nature. And my response would be that
the Booker remedial opinion makes it clear that the
Guidelines as a whole must be viewed as advisory. The
government tries to argue that if some Guidelines are
special and are binding, and others are advisory,
there's no Sixth Amendment problem. But that ignores
the fundamental principle of the Booker remedial hearing
-- holding, which is that the Guidelines as a whole must
be advisory and judges must be able to disagree with
them. And of course here is perhaps the paradigmatic
example of a time when the commission's original
guidelines got it wrong, didn't further the purposes of
sentencing; and, of course, they themselves have made
that conclusion, and for sentencing purposes --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- and I take it your
submission is that the district court must be able to
make the determination that the commission's policy is
to be disregarded in every case to come before the
court?
MR. NACHMANOFF: Well, Your Honor, 3553(a)
requires individualized sentencing. There's no question
that judges are required to follow in every case the
mandates of 3553(a) and to calculate the advisory
Guidelines correctly.
Now, there is no reason why judges cannot in
a certain class of cases conclude that the Guideline
gets it wrong; that it overstates the seriousness of the
offense; that it creates an unwarranted disparity; and
that they are going to impose a sentence outside of that
guideline range.
That does not in any way remove the
requirement that they subject every sentencing to the
adversarial process to give the parties the opportunity
to convince them that the guidelines should be followed,
or not followed, or to be reconsidered.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And Mr. Nachmanoff, I
think that you are agreeing, although you don't want to
come right out and say it, with Justice Scalia's point;
that is, anything from a hundred to one down to one to
one is open to the district judge; and within that
range, there is no abuse of discretion.
MR. NACHMANOFF: Your Honor, I certainly
agree that that full range is available to the
sentencing court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Only because Congress has
said 100 to 1. That strikes me as utterly unreasonable.
But if Congress has said it, it can't be unreasonable.
That's what makes that an easy hypothetical, but that
would not be the normal case, that a 100 to 1 disparity
wouldn't be -- would not be unreasonable.
MR. NACHMANOFF: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In any case, your answer
is anything from what Congress has said, down to one to
one, would be a reasonable sentence that would be --
that would pass muster on appeal because it is not an
abuse of discretion.
MR. NACHMANOFF: Well, if I can be clear,
Justice Ginsburg, sentencing courts must have available
to them the full range of punishment as defined by
Congress. And that range, for purposes of 841, are
broad ranges based on triggering quantities at 5 grams
and 50 grams for crack cocaine. Within those ranges, as
long as the court follows the requirements of 3553(a),
considers all the purposes of sentencing, engages in an
individualized sentencing process, and relies on
relevant and reliable information, there would be no
basis under abuse of discretion review to reverse the
sentencing court in that instance.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you've given me a
bunch of hand holds that, quite frankly, are quite easy
for a district judge to say: Here's my laundry list;
and I'm going to go through every one of them; but in
the end I think the ratio should be 20 to 1; and that's
what I'm going to impose.
MR. NACHMANOFF: Well, again, Your Honor,
Congress certainly has the power to cabin that
discretion. They just need to do it explicitly, and
they have not done so.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So -- Congress not having
done that, then the range is open to the district
judges, 100 to 1 to 1 to 1.
MR. NACHMANOFF: That's correct, Your Honor.
If if may reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Nachmanoff. Mr. Dreeben?
ORAL ARGUMENT BY MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the court:
The question in this case is essentially,
can a district court reasonably disagree with the
judgment of Congress concerning the ratio between the
quantity-based sentences for crack and powder.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Dreeben, can I ask a
question right at the outset that is critical for me. I
think this case may well be controlled by the decision
in Neal against the United States, which is not cited in
the government brief and wasn't cited in the blue brief.
But there the Court held that a policy
judgment by Congress fixing mandatory minimums on the
basis of the weight of the carrier rather than the drug
did not justify guidelines based on that ratio -- based
on the same principle -- if that would produce
unwarranted disparities.
And, as I understand the facts of this case,
the Commission has told us actually in some of its
reports that the 100 to 1 ratio does produce unwarranted
disparities. Therefore, we should disregard the entire
guideline as we did in Neal, and the reason the Neal
case is controlling in this case.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Stevens, let me start
with the Neal decision, because I think Neal is
fundamentally unlike this case. In Neal this Court had
to determine whether its prior construction of a
statute, Section 841, survived the Commission's
decision --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But that is a construction
of what Congress intended, and for purposes of decision
we assumed that Congress intended what we held the
statute meant.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Stevens, the only
question presented in Neal was, did the Commission's
weight guideline for LSD require this Court to change
its interpretation of Section 841. And the Court held
no.
There was no question before the Court about
whether the Sentencing Commission had legitimately
adopted a different formula than the mixture or
substance rule that this Court had held governed the
statute.
The LSD guideline was not in play in Neal.
The government never challenged it. Its rationality was
not at issue. All the Court had to hold was that
whatever the Sentencing Commission did --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It does hold that a
guideline that does not conform with a congressional
judgment merely expressed in a mandatory minimum is a
guideline that would survive.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I disagree with that,
Justice Stevens, because no one challenged the guideline
in Neal. There was nothing at issue in the Court to
decide about whether that Guideline was valid. But even
if the Court thought that Neal does involve some sort of
a principle that the Sentencing Commission has greater
freedom to vary from the procedures laid out in a
mandatory minimum sentencing statute, Neal does not
control this case, because there is more data about what
Congress intended the ratio between crack and powder to
be, and because Congress changed the basic, organic
statute that governs the Sentencing Commission's --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but there's also more
data that the Commission has reflected on all this and
still concludes that the 100 to 1 ratio creates an
unwarranted disparity which is contrary to the statute.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, the statute, itself,
Section 841, establishes the ratio of a 100 to 1. When
the Commission first considered creating drug
guidelines --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It establishes the ratio
for mandatory minimum purposes only, is what Neal held.
MR. DREEBEN: Well I disagree with that,
Justice Stevens, and I'm trying to explain why the legal
context is different from the legal context in Neal.
Let me start with a couple of points about
this. First of all, when the Commission promulgated the
drug Guideline initially, it conformed it to the 100 to
1 ratio that existed under the mandatory minimum
sentencing statute, because it recognized -- and these
were the Commission's words -- that a logical and
coherent sentencing scheme required that there be
consistent proportionality throughout the sentencing
process.
When the Commission later studied the
crack-powder ratio and concluded that Congress had
gotten it wrong and, therefore, the Commission, itself,
had gotten it wrong by conforming to what Congress did,
it proposed a Guideline that would have changed the
ratio for Guideline's purposes only to one to one
between crack and powder.
And Congress, for the first time in the
history of its review of Guidelines amendments, rejected
that proposal; and it did so with legislation that made
clear that it believed that if the commission wanted to
come back with something new, it should propose
something that would change both the Guidelines and the
sentencing statutes so that they would continue to work
in tandem -- that it would preserve a higher ratio of
punishment for crack than powder because it believed
that crack was more serious, and that it believed that
any ratio should apply consistently across the
Guidelines and the statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And if -- you're
talking about Public Law 104-38?
MR. DREEBEN: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they also
said, quote, "The sentence imposed for trafficking in
crack cocaine should generally exceed the sentence for
powder cocaine."
MR. DREEBEN: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's fine,
but that's pretty far from 100 to 1. "Generally
exceed," it suggests to me that Congress itself, in
terms -- you are relying on this implicit directive from
Congress. And that's the latest expression of
congressional implicit direction, and it just says
"generally exceed." So, you know, two to one.
MR. DREEBEN: This, Mr. Chief Justice, is
what Congress instructed the Commission to consider in
making recommendations to change the existing state of
the law.
We don't dispute --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well I know, but you
are relying on an implicit directive anyway. So as you
are looking at that vague direction, it seems to me that
their last expression on what they wanted the Commission
to do is more probative than a much older pre-existing
100 to 1 ratio.
MR. DREEBEN: But they have never changed
the 100 to 1 ratio. And what I think is significant
about this statute is what it continues to say, and this
is on page 124-A of the government's brief -- that "the
recommendations concerning an appropriate change to the
ratio that the Commission might believe is warranted
shall apply both to the relevant statutes and to the
Guidelines." This is on the carryover sentence on pages
24-A to 25-A.
And what I think that this reflects is
Congress' recognition that, so long as the mandatory
minimum statutes are pegged at 100 to 1, the Guidelines
need to follow suit. Now if they're going to change,
that's fine. But they should change in a manner that's
consistent so as to avoid unwarranted disparities
between defendants who are governed by the literal
mandatory minimum statute and defendants who are not.
The alternative is you end up with various
serious cliff effects which the Commission itself was
trying to avoid, where a defendant who has 50 grams of
crack is sentenced to a minimum of 10 years. But if you
drop the ratio to one to one, a defendant who has
49.9 grams --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But those are the same
cliff effects that are the product of Neal, precisely
the same.
MR. DREEBEN: But this Court didn't consider
whether those cliff effects were legally valid in Neal
because it had no guideline before it. And I did went
to get to the other point that I think distinguishes the
legal context in Neal from the legal context today, and
that is, in 2003, Congress amended the organic statute
that governs the Sentencing Commission's promulgation of
Guidelines to require that the commission make AUDIO
STARTS its Guidelines consistent with all pertinent
provisions of the United States Code.
At the time of Neal, that statute only
required the commission to be consistent with Title 18
and Title 28, and the drug statute is found in Title 21.
And the legislative evolution of this provision reflects
that there was concern that the commission did not have
to honor --
JUSTICE STEVENS: In response to that
statute, did the commission revise the guideline that
was involved in Neal?
MR. DREEBEN: It did not, and the government
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: Shouldn't it have done it?
MR. DREEBEN: I think it should have, and I
think that the commission's decoupling of its guidelines
from the mandatory minimums that Congress has provided
produces an irrational disconnect between guideline
sentencing and sentencing --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's because of the
cliff. But the cliff is undoubledly a negative, but the
cliff is not as important as sometimes suggested, for
the numbers after all, which relate punishment to
amounts of drug, reflect, (a), more seriousness than
what you have -- I mean more people likely to take it --
but also the role that the person is likely to play in
the organization, high or low, and the likelihood that
he is or this -- these groups of people are big deal
offenders or not, and many other things.
Therefore, a system that really is basically
flat or only rises slowly until you get to the cliff,
and then it again rises slowly to the next rise, is not
an irrational system. It depends on what those other
correlations are. I say that because suppose a judge,
noticing the horrendous effects of this -- that the
commission itself has listed and understanding that
cliffs are not the end-all and the be-all of Guidelines
that are rough correlations, suppose a judge said: My
system, which we have before us, which doesn't have the
absolute numerical progression, is far more reasonable
than the commission's system. There it is. He's
reviewed the commission's policy.
Well, Rita says sometimes courts could. And
so what is the law that forbids the judge from doing
that, at least on occasion?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, as a general
matter, the government accepts that a sentencing judge
can revisit, challenge the Sentencing Commission's
policy determinations as an intrinsic feature of an
advisory guideline system. It's not because we welcome
that result, but because we think that it followed from
this Court's decision in Cunningham and that was
expressly stated in Rita.
But this is not an area where the sentencing
courts would be merely second-guessing a commission
judgment. They would be second-guessing a judgment of
Congress itself.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, because Congress has
nowhere said that you can't have cliffs.
You see, Congress could say, our rough
judgment is that 5 Gs of hard -- of crack really is kind
of a correlation with a medium-level gang, and 50 Gs is
probably a correlation with a fairly high-level gang.
And what has Congress actually thought about this?
Nothing. They never thought about it.
So I can't find an instruction there that
tells the commission that they can't do it this way.
MR. DREEBEN: But, Justice Breyer, the one
time when the commission tried to do that --
JUSTICE BREYER: They wanted to abolish the
whole thing.
MR. DREEBEN: They wanted to make it one to
one, and Congress recognized that that would produce
severe cliffs and said not appropriate; if you want to
change the sentencing statutes and guidelines in tandem,
that's fine, make a recommendation. And so the
government's fundamental position here is that Congress
has made a judgment that until it says otherwise,
sentencing ratios of 100 to 1 are appropriate to reflect
the increased harms of crack.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't your answer also to
Justice Breyer's question the post-Neal amendment to the
statute which in effect says, you know, make your
Guidelines consistent with the statute?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, it --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Quite -- quite apart from
the specific rejection of the proposal they came up
with.
MR. DREEBEN: The two of them work together
in tandem, I think.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? Why? That's my
question. Everyone's assuming that "consistent with the
statute" means a sentencing system that's smooth without
cliffs. And I'm sure every mathematician would agree
with you, but I'm not at all certain that prosecutors
and defendants who have actual experience in this would
agree with you, because there are lots of arguments that
it's perfectly consistent with the objective of the stat
tute to have a few cliffs.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think I want to rely
on what the Sentencing Commission itself did before it
concluded that it disagreed with the 100 to 1 ratio in
the statute. And this is set forward -- forth at page
50A of the same brief, the Kimbrough brief. This was
the commission's original commentary where it explained,
in the first full paragraph, how it set the basic levels
for drug crimes. And it said that it set them because
they were either provided directly by Section 841 of
Title 21 or, quote, "are proportional to the levels
established by statute," and it said, further refinement
of the drug amounts beyond those mandatory minimums was
essential to provide a logical sentencing structure for
drug offenses. And I think what the commission --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's why -- and the
1993 statute that you said, that you referred to, did
indeed require the guidelines to track the -- the
statutory prescriptions for sentencing.
MR. DREEBEN: 2003, I believe.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Pardon me?
MR. DREEBEN: It's 2003.
JUSTICE SCALIA: 2003. Sorry. I misspoke.
But -- but the fact remains that the
Guidelines are only guidelines and that still doesn't--
doesn't convert to an obligation for the district courts
to follow that scheme so long as that scheme is only
reflected in the guidelines. The guidelines themselves
are still just advisory.
MR. DREEBEN: What distinguishes this area,
Justice Scalia, I believe, from other guidelines is that
the backdrop for sentencing for drug crimes is a
mandatory minimum statute that goes directly to the
sentencing court. It's not subject to the commission's
intervention and it's not subject to a district court's
power to disagree with. The sentencing court must use a
100 to 1 ratio in applying the mandatory minimums.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why don't you just
skip the Guidelines and say that the effect of the
sentencing statute is to make it unreasonable for a
sentencing judge -- never mind the Guidelines -- to do
anything other than follow the 100 to 1 prescription
that Congress has established?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I'm happy to do just --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know what the
Guidelines add to -- to your game except another --
another stage.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, if -- if it's sufficient
for the Court that Section 841 itself establishes the
100 to 1 ratio and that's something that's off-limits
for the district courts to disagree with, I'm content.
I think there is additional data that
indicates that Congress vetoed attempts by the
Sentencing Commission to vary from that range and made
it clear that the Guidelines formulations and the
statute worked in tandem, which together expresses a
notion of quantity proportionality tied to the 100 to 1
ratio.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I would say that that
statute reflects Congress's desire that sentencing,
whether it's through the commission or not, be based on
the 100 to 1 ratio.
MR. DREEBEN: And I agree with that, Justice
Scalia. And the upshot of disagreeing with that, which
is what various district courts have done but no court
of appeals has endorsed, is that every district court
could come up with its own ratio and that that ratio
would have to be accepted as reasonable so long as there
is a cogent, logical data support for it. And here --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But is it not true that
that only affects about 20 percent of the crack cocaine
cases, because they say -- maybe I'm wrong on this --
that 80 percent of the sentences are actually fixed by
the mandatory minimum?
MR. DREEBEN: There's a floor in the
mandatory minimum, but I think that there are quite a
few sentences that are above the mandatory minimum and
there are sentences that are below the mandatory
minimum. And in those cases --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I was -- and correct me if
I'm wrong. I was under the impression that 80 percent
of the sentences that are actually imposed are at the
mandatory minimum.
MR. DREEBEN: I didn't get that out of my
attempt to plumb the data, Justice Stevens. The
Sentencing Commission's most recent report has a chart
that didn't, to my mind, break down adequately the
figures so I could answer your question.
But I do think that, even if it's true, even
if 80 percent were at the mandatory minimum, that would
mean that as to those 20 percent that are not governed
by a mandatory minimum, you could have one district
judge say, I'm going to use one to one, like the
commission proposed in 1995. Another could say I'm
going to use five to one, like the commission proposed
in 1997. A third could use 20 to 1, as the commission
proposed in 2002. And each one of those would have a
reasonable --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't this another
alternative? If the district judge concluded, as some
scholars have, that the 100 to 1 ratio itself creates
unwarranted disparities, could not a district judge
sentence by just disregarding the guideline for this
particular substance? And then use just ordinary
principles, what's appropriate sentencing in this case.
MR. DREEBEN: I don't think so, because I
think here we're talking about a matter of statutory
construction. Because the courts of appeals are
reviewing sentences for reasonableness.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You have a conflict in the
statute. One says await the guideline. Another says
avoid unwarranted disparities.
MR. DREEBEN: That wasn't the two statutes I
was thinking of. What I was thinking of is that
Congress itself has said a 100 to 1 disparity --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, Mr. Dreeben,
your office used to argue that when Congress wants to do
something, there's a way to do it. They pass a law
through both houses, then the President signs it.
That's the only way they can give legal effect to their
intent.
Now you are arguing that there's some
binding intent simply because they set mandatory
minimums and mandatory maximums that carry beyond that.
I'm wondering how that's consistent with the positions
the office has taken before.
MR. DREEBEN: Our position here, I think, is
consistent with our view that you read statutes both for
what they say and for what they mean. And here we are
not relying just on Section 841, although I'm certainly
happy if members of the Court believe that 841 alone
dictates a proportionality rule, I'm also relying on the
fact that Congress vetoed the Commission's attempt to
break apart the Guidelines in the sentencing --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We should read a
negative pregnant in the Congress' vetoing of what the
Commission wanted to do?
MR. DREEBEN: At least the Court should do
this much, that when a court of appeals is reviewing for
reasonableness a sentence imposed by a district judge,
the court of appeals should refract the Section 3553(a)
factors through Congress' existing judgment that a 100
to 1 ratio is warranted.
JUSTICE BREYER: If Congress passes a
statute that says the mandatory minimum sentence of
eight years for possessing a 12-inch shotgun unlawfully,
does that mean it wants four years for a 6-inch shotgun?
(Laughter.)
MR. DREEBEN: It doesn't. But, Justice
Breyer, that's, for two different reasons, not an apt
analogy for this. First of all, Congress applied the
100 to 1 ratio at two different points in the sentencing
spectrum.
Then if there was a rational basis for
viewing shotgun culpability as turning on the length of
the barrel, then perhaps there would be a better
analogy. But I think here what Congress was focused on
was the relative culpability of crack offenders and
powder offenders.
JUSTICE BREYER: At the cliff. But, of
course, I've been through -- I hope not being hypnotized
by numbers myself -- that these numbers reflect
underlying realities that are far closer to the shotgun
case than you are prepared to admit.
MR. DREEBEN: No, but I think that Congress
doesn't view the Guidelines quantity determinations as
being independent from its mandatory minimum
determinations. And that's why it vetoed the
Commission's unilateral attempt to impose a one to one
ratio --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And then are you saying
that either the guidelines are out of it and the statute
controls, the ratio is a 100 to 1, or that Congress has,
in effect, made a particular guideline, the one setting
the drug quantity, made that mandatory? That
guideline -- I mean, it sounds to me that if you must
adhere to the 100 to 1, then that's a mandatory
guideline.
MR. DREEBEN: They do come down to the same
thing, Justice Ginsburg, in the sense that the guideline
as it exists today incorporates the 100 to 1 ratio. And
I believe that Congress well understood that it was
preserving a guideline that maintains fidelity and
consistency with its sentencing statute while sending
the Commission back to the drawing board and saying if
we're going to change this scheme, let's change it in a
consistent coherent way. And every district court does
not get the power to say we're going to change what
Congress has prohibited the Commission from changing,
even though we can't change the mandatory minimum
statute.
That is Congress' sentencing policy. We
have to impose that in cases at the mandatory minimum.
But in cases that aren't at the mandatory minimum, the
position of the petitioner is basically district judges
can say to Congress, you're completely wrong. And our
position is that under a sympathetic attempt to
construct reasonableness review that is consistent with
Congressional intent, a district court can't do that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why doesn't
Congress -- why didn't Congress, in fact, do what you
say they implicitly did explicitly? They could impose
the 100 to 1 ratio throughout as opposed to simply as a
minimum and a maximum. And they did not do that.
MR. DREEBEN: Because they had no reason to
do it. Until this Court decided Booker, the Guidelines
were mandatory. And they fully understood by leaving in
place a crack guideline that mirrored the statutory --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Congress has legislated in
this area after Booker. They have not imposed the 100
to 1 ratio throughout the -- other than as a mandatory
minimum and maximum.
MR. DREEBEN: I'm not aware that they have
legislated in this area after Booker, Mr. Chief Justice.
And I think that since all the court of appeals have
agreed with the single position that district courts are
not free to substitute their own ratios for the 100 to 1
ratio, Congress would not have had a great deal of
reason to intervene in this area.
And what this case will tell Congress and
sentencing courts is within an advisory guidelines
regime, can Congress make certain policy judgments and
place certain limits on what a district court can do
that it otherwise would have freedom to do in an
advisory range.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that, as you say, in
effect, makes a certain element mandatory. And why
doesn't that come up against the same Sixth Amendment
judgement that we made in Booker?
MR. DREEBEN: The only requirement, I
believe, that exists under Booker is that judge not in
all cases be required to find a fact in order to exceed
the guidelines range that would be based on the jury
verdict alone or the admission of guilt alone.
Booker did not say that Congress had to
tolerate every single policy judgment that individual
district courts might make to vary upward. For example,
socioeconomic status. If a particular judge felt in my
courtroom college students and white collar
professionals deserve an automatic bump up in their
sentences above what I would give anyone else because
they betrayed the advantages that they have, I think
Congress could come along and say that's not right. We
don't want socioeconomic status to be a variable that
affects how long someone goes to prison.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me that the gap
in your argument is that whatever Congress legislated,
it did not legislate the manner in which you transferred
this 100 to 1 ratio onto the sentencing chart.
And as your opponent points out, it isn't
done proportionally. It could have been done in a lot
of different ways.
MR. DREEBEN: It is done in a logically
proportional manner --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe. But there are other
logically proportional manners of doing it. Why would
the district court be bound to the particular one that
the Sentencing Commission chose?
MR. DREEBEN: The Sentencing Commission at
least started where Congress did.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's fine. I'm granting
that they got a start where Congress did. I'm assuming
that. But why do they have to follow it through the way
the Sentencing Guidelines did?
MR. DREEBEN: I don't think they do have to
follow it through exactly the way the Sentencing
Commission did it, because they don't -- sentencing
courts today which are sentencing under advisory
guidelines need not use exactly the same base offense
levels when they come down to final sentences after
they've considered what the Commission has done. But
what they cannot do, I submit -- and it is more of a
negative -- they cannot say fundamentally the Commission
has pointed this out and Congress has enacted, but the
crack and powder guidelines are way out of whack. I
think that they're wrong.
I think Congress was wrong. And I'm going
to do everything I can to try to eliminate that degree
of disparity. And I may not be able to do everything I
want to. This judge here was limited by the 120 months
that was the mandatory minimum. But essentially, he, as
I read the sentencing transcript, thought it was crazy
for Congress to treat crack and powder differently. For
a judge to say Congress is crazy, I think, is a sort of
textbook example of an unreasonable sentencing factor.
The ultimate sentence will turn on how the
judge applies all of the facts of the case to the
particular --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is it not a fact that this
guideline is also unique in that it was not based on a
history of other similar crimes like all the other --
most of the guidelines were? There's no expert
interpretation of the history of sentencing in this
particular area?
MR. DREEBEN: True. But this is an area
where I don't think Congress chose to rely on the
administrative expertise of the commission. It made its
own policy judgment on crack.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand. This
guideline is pretty much unique in that regard. It is
not based on experience in sentencing in comparable
cases.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, the drug guideline was
based on --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The 100 to 1 ratio is not
based on history?
MR. DREEBEN: No. But entire drug --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Therefore, none of the
sentencing guidelines relating to crack are based on
history.
MR. DREEBEN: They are based on the fact
that Congress made a supervening policy judgment. And
in our system, the policy judgments ultimately
pertaining to sentencing belong to Congress.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So there is really an
entirely different rationale for defending these
guidelines than any other guidelines in the system?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, there are some other
guidelines where Congress has directly intervened, but
my fundamental point here is that so long as Congress
has made a determination that it has not changed, that
it wants 100 to 1 as a mandatory minimum set point,
district courts should not be free to say I think
Congress got it wrong, I'm going to sentence on a
different paradigm. The Commission didn't think that
was appropriate when it promulgated the original drug
guideline, which is why that guideline is not based on
the same sorts of empirical data that other guidelines
might be deemed to be responsive to. But that only
reflected that the Commission in its original guideline
respected that its role was to carry out congressional
policy, not to disagree with or supplant congressional
policy, and so long as the Commission was operating in
that vein -- which I think was correct -- it follows a
fortiori that sentencing courts should do the same
thing.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does the Guidelines
supersede the parsimony provision, because the parsimony
provision is general and the Guidelines -- the ratio is
specific?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I would put it
differently, Justice Kennedy. I would say that Congress
has made a legislative judgment that for crack purposes,
this ratio is what is needed to have a sufficient
sentence, and the Congress that decided that might be
wrong. And if the present-day Congress decides to
change that, a new policy will be established, but I
think that reading the two statutes together, Section
3553(a) and Section 841, produces the conclusion that
this is a legislative judgment of reasonableness; and
even if every judge in the Federal system holds a
different personal view, that doesn't mean that the
statute has validated their position over the one that
Congress expressed in Title 21, in a manner that binds
sentencing courts irrespective of how the Commission
sorts out its policy judgments.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose experience shows
that the ratio is not consistent with the parsimony
provision -- we find that over a course of time?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I don't think that the
Court can interpret Congress in Section 3553(a) to make
unreasonable what Congress did in Section 841. I think
reading all of the statutes together would produce the
conclusion that Congress deemed that this was the way to
achieve the purposes of sentencing.
Crack is more corrosive in the inner cities.
It has different kinds of problems than powder. They
should be addressed in this more severe sentencing
manner, and if that's a policy judgment that warrants
being revisited, the appropriate body to do it is
Congress, not each individual sentencing judge,
formulating his or her own ratio, subject to blanket
affirmance by the court of appeals.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dreeben.
Mr. Nachmanoff, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT BY MICHAEL S. NACHMANOFF
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. NACHMANOFF: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
If I can respond, Justice Stevens, I think
-- you asked about the percentage of cases in crack that
are at the mandatory minimum or near it. I would point
the Court to page 33, footnote 10 of our opening brief.
It is approximately 70 percent or just over that that
hit at the mandatory minimum or just one or two levels
above that.
So the large majority of cases involving
crack cocaine end up being subjected to the mandatory
minimum.
With regard to the Government's argument
regarding Section 994(a) and the fact that direction was
given to the Commission to be consistent with pertinent
statutes, of course, that's reflected in Section 5(g)
which says that mandatory minimums trump the Guidelines,
and the Commission recognizes that and of course
sentencing judges recognize that, and Judge Jackson
recognized it here.
To suggest that Judge Jackson concluded that
Congress was crazy, I think is unfair. What Judge
Jackson did was, in a very reasoned opinion, explained
that the information from the Sentencing Commission,
which has been persuasive not just to Judge Jackson, but
to judges across the country and to many others, was
that the 100 to 1 ratio overstates the seriousness of
the offense, and he understood that Congress had spoken
clearly with regard to mandatory minimums, and he
honored them.
Finally, Mr. Chief Justice, you point out
the heart of the problem with the Government's case.
Congress has not spoken explicitly in the way the
Government suggests. They are --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I was wrong that
they legislated after Booker.
MR. NACHMANOFF: Well, Your Honor, Congress
has failed completely to address this particular
problem, and they have understood since Booker that if
they wanted to address the issue of the discretion that
sentencing courts must have with regard to the advisory
guidelines, they have a way of fixing the problem. They
can change the statute. And so long as they then
require the Government to include in the indictment and
prove to the jury beyond a reasonable doubt the specific
drug type and drug quantity over and above the current
mandatory minimum and maximums, they're free to do that,
and there would no Sixth Amendment problem and there
would no problem with the advisory guidelines.
In other words, right now, the Government
simply alleges that a person engaged in the distribution
of either 5 grams or 50 grams of crack cocaine -- that's
what they have to do to meet the thresholds for the
5-year and the 10-year mandatory minimums -- in
virtually every case the Government will present
evidence or a court will find under relevant conduct
that there was some greater quantity. And if the
Government's theory were to be accepted, those
guidelines would be mandatory, and it would be in direct
conflict with the remedial holding in Booker to require
courts to adhere to that, absent the procedural
protections which are not currently in place.
Judge Jackson did it right in this case. He
imposed a sentence consistent with the parsimony
provision and the purposes of sentencing and all of the
factors in 3553(a).
He imposed a long sentence, 15 years, but he
honored Congress's explicit mandate, and we would ask
the Court to reverse the court of appeals and affirm the
district court.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Nachmanoff. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
45:4 affirmance appellate 16:8 atypical 4:15 be-all 31:14
52:5 aggravation 8:14 40:1 available 21:19 20:2,6 38:23
agreeing 21:13 35:12 aware 5:6 42:13 board 7:4 41:10
21:17 alike 13:14 3:19 5:25 6:17 body 48:20
13:18 14:17 33:1,6 38:5 41:10 16:17 18:15
alternative 49:12 bad 10:20 51:15
amendments 38:17 36:11 43:8 15:7,12,23
amounts 31:1 argument 1:12 basic 25:25 34:8 32:10,20,22
analogy 40:1,7 7:1,4 10:16 41:20 40:10
13:18 16:23 49:4,18 22:18 24:2 brief 13:25
apart 33:13 39:9 assume 16:6 28:24 34:20
appeal 22:6 assuming 16:22 43:6 C 2:1 3:1
16:12 14:24 36:16 assumption 6:3 belong 46:14 calculate 6:19
38:8 39:14,16 6:4 betrayed 43:17 20:24
35:4 42:15 48:23 attempt 37:10 better 40:6 calculated 3:15
44:18 51:24 39:8 40:19 beyond 17:8 calculating 6:18
41:11,11,13,15 27:23,24 36:21 34:7 35:9 24:20 25:24,25
changing 41:14 coherent 26:21 compare 8:3,10 32:25 33:4
6:6,16 7:2 Chief 3:3,8 combination completely 40:1,7,15,23
11:10 23:10,14 27:18 6:20 9:9 41:21 50:18 41:7,14,17,21
14:19,20 27:21 28:1,8 combined 6:23 concedes 19:4 42:1,1,9,18,20
15:4 28:13 38:16 come 10:24 concern 30:9 42:22 43:10,18
20:19 39:10 41:25 13:10 20:19 concerning 43:22 44:10,12
21:25 42:14 48:25 21:14 27:10 23:18 28:23 44:24 45:2,8,9
23:16,22 49:6 50:11,15 36:17 41:4 conclude 11:15 45:21 46:12,14
52:2 43:3,18 44:20 21:2 46:19,20,24
38:5 choice 9:9,10 commentary concluded 18:24 47:17,20,21
42:20 14:22 34:7 26:25 34:4 48:4,11,12,14
50:12 choices 15:3 commission 37:25 50:1 48:21 50:2,8
52:3 choosing 15:3 7:11,25 8:24 concludes 19:22 50:13,17
chose 44:8 45:21 9:2,5,10,22 26:4 congressional
13:14 4:4,14,19 14:21,23 15:2 20:15 47:24 17:24 18:6,7
15:14 11:23 15:2 18:5,7,12 48:14 18:11,25 19:9
36:22 circumstances 18:24 19:8,22 conclusions 25:12 28:6
41:18,19 10:24 13:12 24:7 25:3,10 10:25 13:10 41:24 47:6,7
46:2 49:9 18:23 25:20 26:3,8 18:10 Congress's
cited 23:23,24 26:16,24 27:1 conduct 51:11 36:10 51:23
class 21:2 28:24 29:12 51:15 5:20 12:25
42:22,23 36:5 36:4,11 37:19 conforming 11:1
clearly 19:1 50:9 37:20,21 39:12 27:2 considered 3:15
10:23 29:18,21 30:23 44:9,17,21,23 Congress 3:25 considers 22:15
17:3 30:23,24 31:8 45:22 46:25 4:17,20 5:1,8 consistency 41:9
23:2 40:10 47:5,8 48:5 5:16 6:4 7:13 consistent 13:8
cliffs 7:18 31:14 49:20,23 50:4 9:25 10:4,6,12 14:5 26:22
closer 40:13 18:10 20:12,18 17:14 19:22 38:25 39:3
28:10,23 8:1,2,6,21 26:20 30:1,18 22:11 23:2,5 49:20 51:19
33:2 10:10 22:13 31:18,19,25 23:18 24:1,19 consistently
23:15,17,25 21:4 26:4 38:1 1:19 47:7
25:2,5,9,17,19 crimes 34:9 35:7Deputy 1:18 disagreeing
24:15,18 39:6,13,14,16 crystal-clear deserve 43:15 3:23 4:5
41:12,24 42:6 15:8 desire 36:10 disconnect
48:11,23 49:11 40:8 18:20 discretion 5:2
29:24 43:14 18:19 32:4 46:21 15:15 21:17
courts 3:13 4:1 cure 18:16 determinations 22:7,18 23:3
36:15 38:8 data 25:23 26:3 different 6:18 38:15 45:4
19:15 court's 4:11 decide 25:18 46:16,25 48:2 20:19
27:20,25 5:18 32:4 decided 7:13 48:17 disregarding
47:9 35:10 42:6 47:20 differently 9:13 38:3
5:9 8:1,5,17,21 decision 5:15 47:17 13:15
11:16 12:21 24:19 32:4 direct 51:14 29:23 35:5
25:24 27:5,14 30:18 direction 28:6 51:6
40:11 45:8,23 46:9 defendants 29:9 28:4,14 18:5,8 20:17
49:21,23 47:18 48:16 29:10 33:23 directly 34:10 21:16 22:22
4:9 6:13 crack-powder defending 46:16 directs 3:13 35:10 36:1,15
11:11,15 26:25 define 18:1 disagree 4:13 36:16 37:17,25
crazy 45:7,9 defined 17:23 5:24 14:21 38:2 39:15
14:2,4 50:2 22:10 15:10 18:10,13 41:12,20,24
16:16 created 7:25 defines 6:22 20:10 23:17 42:16,23 43:12
20:17,20 10:5 17:13 degree 45:3 25:15 26:12 44:7 46:23
22:14,19 creates 19:13 Department 35:11 36:1 51:25
23:11,12 empirical 9:11 experience felt 43:13 found 30:7
24:12 11:16 47:3 33:23 46:1 fidelity 41:8 four 39:22
25:15 enables 17:16 48:7 figures 37:13 Fourth 3:22 4:3
27:20 enacted 17:14 expert 45:17 file 13:24 4:4,14,18
28:8,19 44:24 expertise 45:22 final 44:20 11:23
30:14,17 endorsed 36:16 explain 26:13 Finally 4:14 fraction 9:7
32:20,24 end-all 31:14 explained 34:7 50:11 frankly 22:21
34:2 engaged 51:6 50:3 find 32:18 43:7 free 4:13 5:19
35:5 engages 22:15 explicit 10:8 48:9 51:11 12:25 15:10
36:13 ensure 16:9 12:7 19:3 finding 5:8 18:17,18 19:7
37:9 entire 5:20 24:9 51:23 findings 3:19 42:17 46:23
46:7 explicitly 4:21 fine 14:10 28:1 51:2
entirely 46:16 12:1 23:3 42:2 29:7 33:3 freedom 25:21
41:4 equally 5:9 50:13 44:11 42:24
43:5 error 13:25 expressed 25:13 first 6:12 26:8 full 12:25 13:5
ESQ 1:15,18 2:3 48:4 26:16 27:6 21:19 22:10
46:3,7 2:5,8 expresses 36:6 34:8 40:1 34:8
47:16 essence 18:15 expression 28:5 five 37:20 fully 5:21 42:7
49:1 essential 34:14 28:16 fixed 36:23 fundamental
26:8,17 established flip 8:20 24:14 44:23
31:1 34:9 34:12 35:18 F floor 5:18 6:2 further 4:22 5:1
35:7 47:22 face 4:24 36:25 10:13,15 19:17
46:3,7 establishes 26:7 fact 7:18 9:9 focused 40:7 19:18 20:13
51:1,1 26:10 35:24 10:23 18:18 follow 7:11 9:23 34:12
33:19 42:1 43:7 20:23 29:6 G
49:19 44:16 game 35:21
exactly 3:14 51:21 following 19:12 13:3 18:21
38:20 44:16,19 24:6 45:12 47:9 generally 27:23
43:2 example 8:3 failed 50:18 footnote 49:11 28:2,7
31:12 43:12 45:10 faithful 8:25 formula 25:4 10:22 11:3
41:5 Gs 32:13,14 hearing 20:8 13:12,17 43:11 48:21
38:20 guideline 3:16 heavy 6:24 identifies 5:5 20:22 22:16
3:24 4:5,8 20:1 held 23:25 24:20 identify 5:23,24 individually
15:14 24:24 25:7,12 26:11 imagine 14:6 inevitable 7:18
49:20 25:14,16,18 high 10:21 31:4 imbue 20:1 inferred 19:2
29:22 30:12,20 27:13 9:18,22 28:4,6 11:14 14:3
40:24 41:1,3,5 history 3:17 implicitly 3:25 initial 16:1
43:20 41:8 42:8 15:14 16:2,2 12:1 42:2 initially 26:17
21:5 47:2,2,5 46:6,10 important 16:5 insist 14:24
29:6 guidelines 4:1 hit 49:13 17:7 30:24 instance 22:19
41:11 5:21 6:19 8:12 hold 4:12 25:9 impose 3:19 instructed 28:9
45:2 8:15 9:16 10:9 25:11 4:22 13:7 instruction 12:7
10:16 11:20 holding 5:19 18:21 21:5 32:18
37:16 18:18 20:4,5,9 holds 22:21 48:1 27:22 37:7 24:19,20 25:24
5:5 6:14 24:3 26:9 27:7 7:8,17,22 9:24 51:19,22 18:6,8,11,25
20:5 27:11,17 29:1 15:21 16:7 imposing 3:11 38:21,23 41:24
25:8 29:5 30:2,3,18 18:2,14 19:20 13:16 interpret 18:6
31:24 31:14 33:2,11 20:21 21:18 imposition 4:7 48:11
51:5 34:18,25,25 22:2 23:1,8 impossible interpretation
35:3,3,6,14,16 30:10 50:17 16:12 17:23 19:8,9
33:4 39:9 40:16,22 51:23 inability 18:20 interprets 18:7
50:12 42:6,21 43:8 hope 40:11 include 50:24 interrupt 19:10
44:14,19,25 horrendous incoherence 7:3 intervene 42:19
46:17,19 47:3 houses 38:19 incoherent 6:6 46:19
22:12 guilt 43:9 hypnotized 41:6 introduce 12:16
29:13,16 40:11 increased 33:7 involve 25:19
H hypothetical independent involved 30:13
hard 14:5 32:13 I indictment 31:10
6:1,9,12 7:1,15 20:16 47:12,17 likelihood 31:4
38:23,24
9:20,21 10:1 kilos 8:6,9,11,16 limited 45:5
40:17,25
13:18,23 14:1 3:4 34:6 listed 31:13
46:22
15:7 Kimbrough's literal 29:9
50:1,3,5 17:10,12,20,22 kinds 48:17 34:14 36:19
44:4
18:4,12 19:5 know 28:7,13 logically 6:15
10:18 21:21 22:3,9 L 35:2 36:18
12:1 22:20 23:5,10 laid 25:21 43:20 46:20
23:14,20 24:12 language 4:16 47:8 50:23
18:5 24:18,22 25:11 large 49:15 51:22 14:23 15:25
21:16 25:16 26:2,10 latest 28:5 looking 28:15
38:7
31:11,15 26:13 27:18,21 Laughter 16:14 lot 14:13 44:1
35:16 28:1,8,13 39:23 lots 15:15 33:24
38:2 29:17 30:11,16 laundry 22:22 low 8:8 31:4
43:6,13 30:22 31:23 law 27:19 28:11 lower 11:21
48:1 32:10,20,22 31:21 38:18 12:10 13:14
51:2
49:24 33:8,9,13,18 leaving 14:18 LSD 6:16,20,23
51:18 34:16,21,23 42:7 7:2,16 9:15
17:11
31:2
10:24 37:5,10,24 26:13,14 29:24 M 41:1 48:2
13:5,9 38:10,16 39:10 29:24 38:20 maintains 41:8 meaning 19:14
14:24 39:19,24 40:10 legally 29:21 major 14:14 means 9:18 12:9
18:17,21 40:21 41:5,25 legislate 43:23 majority 49:15 33:20
21:1 42:9,14 43:1 legislated 42:9 making 28:10 meant 24:21
41:20 43:21 44:5,11 42:14 43:22 mandate 16:10 medium 6:21
50:6 45:14,24 46:5 50:16 51:23 medium-level
23:18 47:17 48:7,25 legislative 30:8 mandates 13:7 meet 51:8
25:13 49:7,8 50:11 47:18,25 20:24 meets 13:8
33:5 50:15 52:2 legitimately mandatory 4:25 members 39:6
43:11 justifications 25:3 6:22 7:19 8:4 merely 25:13
46:12 6:5 length 40:5 9:17 10:18 32:7
48:19 justify 5:6 19:11 let's 16:6 41:11 14:15 15:9 merits 7:5
46:13 11:11 18:17 24:1 9:16,25
K levels 8:2 34:8 25:13,22 26:11 methods 6:18
4:17 5:8,16 19:5,17,24 light 6:25 35:8,12 36:24 3:6 23:12 49:4
23:11 49:2,4,6 older 28:17 13:9 14:5 29:23 46:20,22
8:4 10:18 nature 20:2 open 11:4 21:16 51:19 pointed 44:24
25:13,22 Neal 6:16 7:5,9 23:6 particular 6:5 points 9:8 26:15
29:5 7:21 9:9 23:23 opening 49:11 10:9 11:13,19 40:2 43:25
35:8 24:10,10,13,13 operating 47:8 18:22 20:1 policies 4:13
37:1,2,4 24:14,23 25:7 opinion 13:4 38:4 40:24 5:24
25:17,19,22 15:8 16:17 43:13 44:7 policy 5:14 7:10
40:17 26:11,14 29:18 20:3 50:3 45:13,19 50:18 12:20 13:3
29:21,24 30:5 opponent 43:25 parties 21:9 14:9,21,25
45:6 30:13 opportunity pass 11:11 22:6 20:18 23:25
49:10,13 near 49:10 21:9 38:18 31:19 32:1
51:2 need 23:3 29:6 opposed 18:22 passed 5:9 41:17 42:22
9:17 24:1 needed 47:19 opposite 14:25 path 14:17 46:12,13 47:7
34:13 negative 30:23 oral 1:11 2:2 3:6 pegged 29:5 47:8,22 48:6
38:24 39:11 44:23 23:12 penalty 4:22 48:19
50:9 never 25:8 28:19 order 5:25 8:24 penological position 11:10
32:17 35:16 9:7 18:16 43:7 11:17 17:17 33:4
numerical 31:17 outset 23:21 personal 3:17 23:19 25:24
2:3,8 3:5 objectives 18:22 49:20 precisely 29:18
4:20 5:16 obligation 35:1 P petitioner 1:4,17 pregnant 39:11
7:8,17 occasion 31:22 P 3:1 2:4,9 3:7 41:20 prepared 40:14
9:4,24 October 1:9 page 2:2 28:22 49:5 prescription
offenders 31:6 34:5 49:11 place 42:8,23 35:17
12:6,24 40:8,9 pages 29:1 51:17 prescriptions
14:1 offense 3:18 paper 6:21,24 plants 9:15 34:19
16:7 4:10 13:2 21:4 paradigm 46:25 play 16:8 25:7 present 51:10
17:2,20 44:19 50:8 paradigmatic 31:3 presented 11:14
offenses 34:15 20:11 please 3:9 23:15 24:23
office 38:17 39:1 paragraph 34:8 plumb 37:10 present-day
21:12,18 off-limits 35:25 Pardon 34:21 point 7:23 9:21 47:21
23:1,8 okay 11:5 parsimony 11:2 14:10 21:14 preserve 9:8
30:1 26:11 27:4 26:4,7,10,18 23:17
proportionality put 15:25 47:16 34:4 35:12,25 13:15 39:25
proportionally Q 40:2,20,23 recognition 29:4
proportionate 22:12 42:18 43:24 recognized 6:13
proportionately 13:17 36:7 48:8,22 50:7 26:19 32:25
25:20 proposal 27:8 51:12 40:4 recognizes
7:16 14:16 prosecutors 23:16,21 24:23 45:7 21:11
18:16 33:22 25:2 33:9,19 reading 47:23 records 13:12
50:12,19 protections 37:13 48:13 reduced 16:18
51:3,4 51:17 quite 9:1 16:11 reaffirmed 13:4 reducing 11:15
34:14 quote 27:22 really 7:23 34:12
34:10 32:13 46:15 4:22
22:16 13:9 30:8 R 1:18 2:5 3:1 21:1 24:10 40:12
47:13,14 48:9 23:12 42:5,19 reflected 26:3
48:13 provisions 30:4 5:20 8:11 11:4 15:3,13,15,17 49:21
27:19 21:6,17,19 17:22,24 18:1 30:8 36:10
8:10,18 10:10 43:8 31:17 36:18 8:2 9:14 17:4,8
27:14 30:25 rarely 15:3,4 reasonableness 50:9,21
6:19 9:17 11:1 ratio 6:3 7:24 14:12 38:9 regarding 49:19
47:1 20:13,15 22:11 17:8,13 19:1 reasonably 18:5 regime 42:22
25:24
1:20 2:6 23:13 saying 7:2 10:2 46:24 47:20 46:22
22:17 reverse 22:18 33:5,10 38:11 37:2,3,7 38:9 shows 48:7
51:11 51:24 38:11 39:20 43:16 44:20 significant
review 12:5,8,22 Scalia 8:23 9:4 3:16,25 5:3,10 signs 38:19
39:14 36:9,14 43:21 13:8 15:22 38:23 42:3
15:8 14:16 21:14 8:15 26:21 22:15,16,19 12:23
18:15 23:21 43:18 35:2,2 41:11 25:3,10,20,22 Sixth 5:12 15:9
51:15 51:5,18 scholars 38:1 26:1,19,21,22 20:7 43:3 51:3
Rita 4:12 13:5 Section 3:12 34:3,14,19 socioeconomic
32:5 24:16,25 26:7 35:16 36:4,10 solely 4:6
34:18 23:10 27:18,21 39:5,16 47:23 39:9 40:2 41:9 Sorry 34:23
51:15 28:1,13 38:16 47:24 48:11,12 41:17 42:21 sort 25:19 45:9
26:21 48:25 50:15 see 10:19 12:19 44:14,16,17,18 sounds 41:1
43:7 52:2 32:12 45:7,10,18 Souter 6:1,9,12
43:5 47:6 sees 11:24 47:10 48:5,15 10:1 13:23
22:14 32:12 sense 41:5 50:4,21 51:20 42:9 43:1
20:22 10:22 25:5 4:7 10:20,25 serious 27:15 special 14:18,20
18:21 21:5 31:1 50:7 7:13 33:14
44:12 strikes 21:22 46:13,17 48:1 thinking 38:14 two 4:25 5:11
35:9,10 48:22 take 11:10,13 thread 15:6 type 4:6 13:17
6:17 23:23 49:16 31:2 thresholds 51:8
submission taken 9:5 15:25 throw 11:3 U
6:13,22 submitted 11:18 27:19 38:7 23:9 27:6 30:5 unconstitutio...
17:14 52:3,5 tandem 27:13 32:21 48:9 16:24 18:24
24:16 substance 25:5 33:2,17 36:6 Title 30:6,7,7 underlying
25:6,22 38:4 tell 42:20 34:11 48:4 40:13
substances 5:12 tells 32:19 today 29:24 41:6 understand 24:6
28:21 substantive terms 14:25 44:18 45:24
30:5 12:22 28:4 told 24:7 understanding
33:10 substitute 12:10 test 14:12 tolerate 43:11 31:13
34:5 42:17 textbook 45:10 top 8:11 understands
35:8 sufficient 35:23 Thank 23:10 totally 15:5 10:12
36:6,10 47:19 48:24,25 49:6 track 34:18 understood 6:15
39:20 suggest 50:1 52:1,2 trafficking 16:18 19:2,21
41:9,16 suggested 30:24 theory 51:13 27:22 41:7 42:7 50:8
50:23 suggests 28:3 thing 10:20 transcript 45:7 50:19
28:25 suit 29:6 47:11 43:23 30:23
33:2 supersede 47:13 things 5:24 31:6 treat 5:11 45:8 unfair 50:2
39:3 supervening think 5:13 7:8 treated 12:21 uniform 17:5
48:13 46:12 10:19 14:11,11 tried 32:21 uniformity 16:3
supplant 47:7 14:12 15:18 tries 20:5 16:12,17 17:4
19:1 suppose 31:11 21:13 22:24 triggering 4:25 unique 5:24
38:7 31:15 48:7 23:22 24:13 5:2 22:12 45:15,25
supposed 12:23 28:20 29:3,23 triggers 7:13 United 1:1,6,12
23:20 sure 33:21 36:2 37:1,14 trump 49:22 unlawfully
survive 25:14 38:6,7 39:2 try 45:3 39:21
26:2 survived 24:16 40:7,15 42:15 trying 26:13 unreasonable
29:17 sympathetic 43:17 44:15 29:13 6:7 15:5 21:22
22:1 wanted 5:1 27:9 37:6 41:21 42:3,10,17 3553(b)(1) 4:16
45:10 28:16 32:22,24 45:1,2 46:24 43:24 46:5,22
39:12 50:20 47:21 50:15 50:7 4
21:4 46:22 X 12-inch 39:21
26:5 warranted x 1:2,7 12:06 52:4 5
38:2,12 28:24 39:18 120 45:5 5 8:6,9,21 11:8
wasn't 15:25 15 8:11 51:22 5,000 8:6
5-year 51:9
44:19 23:24 38:13 150 8:11
1:5 3:4 50 8:4,9 12:3
10:9 1987 7:25 10:6 22:13 29:13
32:14 51:7
9:8 51 8:17
ways 17:6 44:2 2 1:9
21:22,25
23:7,7,7 70 49:12
26:4,7,18
33:6 34:4
36:15 We'll 3:3 34:20,22,23 36:23 37:6,15
37:21
15:13,17 38:7 21 30:7 34:11 9:12,14 10:11
39:18
41:2,6
46:5,22
29:14 49:11
38:25 292 8:17
8:4 51:9
6:3 7:24,25 3
9:8 11:4 3 2:4
39:3 16:21 26:20 994(a) 49:19
17:8,13 32 8:5,19,22
48:2 51:5 17:17 18:25 33 49:11
21:3 38:15 39:17
34:2 27:1,2 36:22 39:16 47:24
45:5 40:2,23 41:2,6 48:11 51:21
