IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-694
MICHAEL WILLIAMS :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 30, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
RICHARD J. DIAZ, ESQ., Coral Gables, Fla.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
RICHARD J. DIAZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in case 06-694, United States v.
Williams.
General Clement.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
This Court has made clear that speech
proposing an unlawful transaction is not protected by
the First Amendment.
And speech that falsely proposes an unlawful
transaction is likewise unprotected.
The statute at issue here properly construed
does no more than prohibit efforts to offer or solicit
materials that are contraband and then prevents somebody
from turning around after soliciting or offering
contraband and suggesting that the materials either did
not exist or were not contraband after all. The statute
does not prohibit truthful speech about lawful
materials.
Accordingly, the court of appeals erred in
striking the statute down on its face.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if I could start
with one of the more compelling hypotheticals on the
other side. Let's say I'm a movie reviewer. I write a
review saying this is an awful movie. It portrays child
pornography. Aren't I presenting information in a way
that would cause others to believe that the movie
contains child pornography, and wouldn't that be covered
by the statute?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, we do
not think that would be covered by the statute. We
don't think that that would involve -- in the first
point, we don't think it would involve presentation or
promotion of the movie in the meaning of this statute.
We think those terms are really limited to
efforts to make the product available to the market.
And I think if you read those terms in
conjunction with each other, they are all directed at
efforts to make the product available to the market.
Now, so if the person whose actually
distributing the film wants to try to market it as
actual child pornography, then I suppose that would come
within the ambit of the statute. But a movie reviewer
does not have anything to worry about in the first
instance because I don't think that would come within
the term --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the distributor
attaches the movie review. It's in amazon.com, and then
it has the movie review.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Again, Justice Kennedy, it
might be conceptually possible for somebody to market,
let's say a mainstream movie, on the basis of a --
either their own statement or an attached review, that
misrepresents the nature of the movie and makes a claim
for the movie, that it's actual child pornography. I
suppose in that unusual circumstance, it would be
covered. But I guess it would be equally possible for
somebody to take one of the countless mainstream movies
that portrays a murder on screen, and say this is
actually a snuff film. There's actually -- this was a
snuff film. This was an actual murder. Now, somebody
who did that would be clearly misrepresenting the film.
I don't think they would turn around if somebody tried
to do something about that false or misleading speech
and be able to defend on that speech because it would be
clearly false and misleading speech.
And I think what is important here is if the
underlying movie is not child pornography, then truthful
efforts to promote that movie won't be captured.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Supposing the underlying
movie is a depiction of atrocities being committed in
some foreign country, in a war zone or something, by
soldiers who rape young kids. And so it comes within
the literal terms of the statute. And if one said I'd
like to take a look at this movie, wouldn't that be
covered by the statute?
GENERAL CLEMENT: If the movie itself comes
within the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The movie itself would be
pictures of soldiers raping young kids.
GENERAL CLEMENT: And if it were done in a
sufficiently graphic way, that it was captured --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If the news -- I'm
thinking of the news reel -- somebody makes as exhibit
at a war crimes trial, or something like that -- sees
this actually happening. Now, as I understand the
language of the statute, if the person who had that film
described it to someone he wanted to send it to, he
would violate the statute.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Stevens,
there's -- I guess there's an anterior problem, which is
if the depiction were sufficiently graphic --
JUSTICE STEVENS: They are.
GENERAL CLEMENT: The person that would have
that film would be in possession of child pornography,
which itself would be a problem under the statute. He's
in the possession of it.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Depiction of a war crime
taking place? He saw that on camera -- that would be a
crime?
GENERAL CLEMENT: And that might be an
example where, starting with the basic prohibition on
the possession of child pornography, that might be a
situation where there was a valid as-applied challenge.
And that also might be a situation where there would be
a valid as-applied challenge to the pandering and
solicitation provision. But I think the proper way to
analyze that is to ask first whether or not something is
covered by the basic prohibition.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You do agree I guess that
there are some -- there would be some valid as-applied
challenges to this statute.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I agree, and I think in
theory, at least, there may be valid as-applied
challenges to the underlying prohibition. And this
Court of course in Ferber recognized that possibility in
upholding the basic prohibition on the promotion of
child pornography in that context.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Ferber confined the
meaning of child pornography to, I think, the greater
extent than this statute does. It talks about artistic
value, but this -- there were several examples given in
the briefs. One was this film depicts 12 year old child
having sexual relations with an old man. Now that
statement could be perceived as this film shows child
pornography.
Just that statement. But it's a truthful
statement about Lolita, is it not?
GENERAL CLEMENT: It is, Justice Ginsburg
but I think in context that would not be something that
comes within the ambit of the statute. And again, if
you start with the proposition that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why not? If you say --
if you say, 12 year old child -- this film shows a 12
year old child, and it doesn't tell you that the person
who's playing a 12 year old is a young adult?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I understand that, Justice
Ginsburg. What I would say is this statute in order to
apply, at least the way we interpret it, requires both
an objective and a subjective component. And so you
would have to have a situation where that promotion of
the movie objectively would lead somebody to believe
that you're marketing in a manner that portrays it as
actual child pornography. Now I think what you've just
said right there would probably fail at the objective
test because I think particularly when you start talking
about it being a motion picture and the like, the
natural assumption -- let's say it's a mainstream motion
picture, is going to be oh, that's just actors, it's
probably adult actors, or a body double or something. I
don't think that comes within the statute.
The other thing that's required, of course,
is a subjective component -- specific intent is the way
that we would read the statute. And clearly the person
who's marketing Lolita itself and wants people to go see
it in a mainstream box office does not have the intent
to convey to people that this is actual, forbidden child
pornography.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well what if an individual
received actual child pornography in the mail that had
not been solicited. And he calls the chief of police in
town and says I just opened my mail, and this envelope
is full of child porn. And he's right. I mean, there
are no body doubles. This is the real thing in here.
He has presented child pornography to that
chief of police and he's violated the statute, hasn't
he?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Souter, I would
say that the better answer is no, that he has not. Now
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: You say no, but you say no
because we won't enforce it that way. But the -- but
the objective component and the subjective component in
my example are both satisfied.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Souter, I would
say no for a more fundamental reason, which is I think
you have to read two provisions of the statute here in
pari materia. And the other provision I think that is
relevant is the affirmative defense that's in subsection
(d) of the statute, which is at 6a of the appendix to
our opening gray brief. And that provides an
affirmative defense in the situation where somebody is
in possession of child pornography.
Now, the first problem the person who gets
child pornography in the mail has is that the statute --
the bans of possession would apply. Now, there's an
affirmative defense. The affirmative defense is
specific to possession, but one of the things that's a
prerequisite to qualify for the affirmative defense,
which is in (d)(2)(B) is that you have to afford that
material -- you have to afford the agency, the law
enforcement agency, access to the material. Now --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's -- that's fine, but
before you get to that point, you have -- there's still
an indictable offense. You don't prevent -- you don't
present affirmative defenses until you're already
indicted.
GENERAL CLEMENT: You're right, Justice
Souter, but that is a problem both for the prohibition
on possession and it is not a unique problem for the
pandering solicitation provision. And I don't think the
fact that you might have to if -- in that situation, you
might have to actually present your affirmative defense
in some case is a reason to strike a ban on possession
as overbroad. But the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the ban on possession
is not the real problem because, under a normal
possession statute, you would indeed have a problem not
merely in terms of -- that could be raised not merely by
affirmative defense but as an element of the statute.
If the possession is merely a matter of happenstance,
there's an intent problem and presumably there's no --
there's no offense. There's no knowing offense in
acquiring material for the possession.
But in the pandering statute, what we've got
here is there is -- as you put it earlier, there is an
understanding which happens to be correct, objectively
correct, that there is child porn, and there is a very
clear intent to convey that message by way of presenting
this material to a third party, in this case the police.
So I think this is not merely comparable to the problem
of haphazard possession.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Souter, let
me try two responses. One is I do think you have a
problem even in possession because once you get it in
the mail, your possession of it is knowing. And that is
precisely why Congress included this affirmative defense
in the statute. The second thing I would say though is
again, we have to read these statutes in pari materia,
and if one of the ways you qualify for the affirmative
defense is you afford access to law enforcement agency
of the material, I don't think that which is a
prerequisite for qualifying for the affirmative defense
can be independently prohibited --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if --
GENERAL CLEMENT: -- by the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if you call up your
neighbor and say God, I got this disgusting child porn
in the mail?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well -- and, again, I
think if you did no more than that, I don't know that
you would necessarily be covered by the statute, but if
you said I got this disgusting child pornography in the
mail, it's clearly unlawful, here take a look, I mean I
suppose that is covered by the statute. But that
doesn't seem like a natural reaction.
JUSTICE BREYER: Indeed, it is covered by
the statute because I read your brief as saying that the
statute applies only in instances where either you're
trying to sell it or trade it. That is what you're
trying -- now it seems to me a different matter if it's
covering only -- covering as well instances where
somebody's simply showing it to someone else to show him
what he got in the mail. Well, I'd appreciate clarity
on that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Breyer, I think
that we would take the position that even if you are
presenting the material, making it available, but you're
not charging for it, you're not exchanging it, you're
just offering it for free, here's a quick free look,
it's still covered by the statute.
JUSTICE BREYER: If that's covered by the
statute, what you're going to do then is suddenly
criminalize what could be an awful lot of activity that
goes on in schools all over the place and somebody
has -- they think it's funny, and maybe it isn't funny,
but they think it is and it's kind of school-boy
behavior, and they're showing this stuff around, not
totally certain what it is. Suddenly that can become a
Federal crime. Seems like quite an extension. And I
thought you'd written your way out of that problem, and
now I think you haven't.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Breyer, I
mean, you know, I think you could certainly interpret
the statute to write around that problem if you wanted
to, but I do think the most natural reading of the terms
"promotes, distributes, presents, and advertises" is to
capture not just somebody who is making that available
to the market for sale or for barter, but also somebody
who says look, I have child pornography, I want to get
you interested in this, this is the real stuff, here
take a look.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's a very
different thing. I read your brief the same way Justice
Breyer did and particularly footnote 4 of the reply
brief, which I understood to be giving "presents," for
example in this statute, a promotional meaning in light
of the other words around it, "advertises, promotes" and
simply telling your -- you know, your neighbor, I got
this, what should I do about it, isn't promotional. It
may be in a technical term "presents," but it's not
promotional.
And, again, I understood your brief to
suggest that you have to interpret all of those words in
an advertising, soliciting sense.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Mr. Chief Justice,
here -- I mean I think my first cut at drawing the line
would to be say it's not a problem to say, can you
believe what I got in the mail, and talk to your
neighbor about it, describe it.
On the other hand, I do think you're
presenting the materials if you say, I got this in the
mail, look at this, isn't this disgusting, this is
clearly child pornography.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then take it as
that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: If you think though --
JUSTICE BREYER: Take it as that. I would
say looking and presenting to schoolmates dirty pictures
is a fairly common adolescent and post-adolescent
activity. And I would suspect a very high-level
percentage of that class of people don't examine too
carefully what the age of the individuals depicted is,
and many might misrepresent what that age is. So this
sounds like a statute that has enormous reach, whereas
previously I thought it hadn't.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Breyer, if
you think that's the difference between expanding this
statute in some enormous way and not, then I would
invite you to have a more restrictive view of
"presents." And we certainly want you to interpret the
statute in a way that renders it not overbroad. And, of
course, this Court has made clear on a number of
occasions that, before you get to the overbreadth
analysis, you are applying the early constructions to
make sure that the statute if possible --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But --
GENERAL CLEMENT: -- is construed to be
constitutional. But if I could just -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I just wanted to clarify
the footnote to which the Chief referred, that footnote
4 in your reply brief. It says, to the contrary, the
government's brief expressly acknowledges that the
statute's proscription encompasses noncommercial speech.
So I think Justice Breyer's suggestion that
you said in your brief, that the statute is limited to
commercial speech, is something that you -- say, no,
that's not so; we say it encompasses noncommercial
speech.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I
think there may be a distinction to be drawn. We
certainly don't think that it's limited to commercial
speech if by "commercial speech" you mean only efforts
to buy or sell or even only efforts to barter. Because
we think that somebody who sort of systematically is
operating a web site where they are giving away child
pornography and advertising it as such would be clearly
covered by the statute.
So, to the extent that the distinction
between commercial and noncommercial is at the line
where you would say you're giving it away gratis, we
think that's still covered. Now, I gather that maybe
Justice Breyer had a different conception in mind, that
you really have the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My understanding was
not that it was limited to commercial speech. That was
clear from the footnote that I cited. But that
"presents" was limited to promotional activity. It's
one thing to present and say either whether to law
enforcement or your neighbor; it's another thing to
promote the child pornography. And I thought your brief
was adopting a limited construction of words like
"presents" that would cover only promotional activity.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, in fairness,
Mr. Chief Justice, I think we had a slightly broader
conception of "presents." What we were thinking that
"presents" means is really when you are not just sort
of -- you know -- in some abstract way talking about
presenting the material, but you're actually furnishing
the material to somebody else.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, General Clement, is
there --
GENERAL CLEMENT: And --
JUSTICE ALITO: Is there anything to suggest
that some of these hypotheticals, where people get child
pornography unsolicited in the mail or that kids at
school are showing each other not just dirty pictures
but actual child pornography, are situations that occur
with any frequency in the real world?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Not at all, Justice Alito,
and I think that's an important point with respect to
Justice Breyer's hypothetical. I mean you have to
remember that the materials that we're talking about
here are in the main materials that are unlawful even to
possess. And it is also true that the -- in the wake of
Ferber, a pretty good job was done of getting these
materials out of the real world. So the kind of
pictures that are --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. I
lost -- in your answer, I lost a negative or something.
Are you saying that this type of activity frequently
occurs or infrequently occurs?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Infrequently occurs --
especially in the real world, which is to say when
pictures or magazines are being handed around from
adolescent to adolescent, there is really no reason in
the world to suspect that what's being handed from
adolescent to adolescent is child pornography as opposed
to adult pornography -- Playboy and that sort of thing.
Because the truth of the matter is in the
wake of Ferber, a pretty good job has been done in
stamping out child pornography in the real world. It
has moved, unfortunately, on to the Internet. And, in
that context, when people are promoting it as actual
child pornography or soliciting it as actual child
pornography --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The universe of child
pornography includes activities of 17-year olds.
GENERAL CLEMENT: It does, Justice Stevens,
but so, too, for the basic prohibition. And I think
what's important here is there may be some definitional,
you know, questions. Or you may have a view that there
are applications of the statute that would be
unconstitutional.
But what's important, I think, is that this
pandering and solicitation provision doesn't add some
new definition, some more aggressive definition. It
simply picks up the notion of the basic definition of
child pornography, and it says that if you're taking
materials and you are offering them to the market as
actual child pornography, if you are soliciting actual
child pornography, then the government can go after the
direct acts of solicitation and offering and -- and --
prosecute those acts without --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even though -- even
though what you are, in fact, showing or presenting does
not fit the definition? Even if what you're showing --
you say, have I got some hot child porn and here it is,
and the "it" is -- is -- an adult pretending to be a
child, or a virtual image.
So the -- the problem is not an accurate
representation that this is hardcore porn, and it is,
but saying, have I got the real stuff, but what you
present is not at all the real stuff.
GENERAL CLEMENT: That's right, Justice
Ginsburg. If the scienter requirements are satisfied
and I'm consciously trying to get you to believe that
even though I have something that for some technical
reason is not the real thing, what I'm offering you is
the real thing, the statute does target that. But that
seems to me to not be a First Amendment problem.
It seems to be a natural consequence of
Congress taking the Court's advice in Free Speech
Coalition and moving from a prohibition on materials
that had been pandered to the actual acts of pandering
and solicitation themselves.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And is that your answer to
the -- all of the hypotheticals that are put forth in
the Coalition for Free Speech, the Catholic Bishops, the
advertisement in amazon.com or Netflix, then?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kennedy, we
think that all those hypotheticals are taken out with
more than one reason. I mean, I think from the Catholic
Bishops --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's -- pardon me.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Sure.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's assume for the
moment that there are minors, so that the content aspect
of it is film.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Oh --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That there are real minors
in some of these things.
GENERAL CLEMENT: But are there real minors
engaging in forbidden activity?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Actual child pornography?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, if the underlying
material is actually child pornography, then you may be
in a different situation. All of the hypotheticals in
that brief were with materials -- the underlying
materials were not child pornography.
And I think that's an important distinction,
because if you're taking a movie like "Traffic" or
"American Beauty," which is not child pornography --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
GENERAL CLEMENT: -- and you're simply
truthfully promoting it, you have nothing to worry about
with this statute.
Now, if you took something -- I also think
that the Catholic Bishop situation isn't covered,
because that is not promoting, presenting and
distributing --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If one had a hand held
video at a school or something like that?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I mean, again -- I
mean, if you had a hand held video and the video itself
was child pornography, and then you got that on the
Internet or otherwise and decided you wanted to promote
that, I mean would be covered by the statute. But --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: There are two things that
you -- that all of us have to work with here. One is
the scienter component here. Is that overly broad,
vague, and so forth? The other is the content.
And my concern is the same as that indicated
by Justice Stevens at the outset. There are some
terrible practices in the child-trafficking area where
children are held in brothels for the most debased of
acts. There are abuses in prisons, abuses in schools.
If there are videotapes showing those
things, it seems to me that the statute is -- that
they're clearly covered by the statute, and maybe even a
killing of a little girl in public might be sadistic.
Assume that that's covered by the statute.
Is there anything in the "presents" and the
"promotes" language in the scienter component of the
statute that gives some protection to these materials?
Is it just as-applied? Is that what we have to do?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Here is how I would try to
analyze it, Justice Kennedy, which is I would say that
there would be an as- applied challenge there because
the basic prohibition on child pornography that would
apply to the underlying materials, there would be an
as-applied exception to that. And therefore, the
pandering and the solicitation of that would be equally
outside the constitutional --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So we want the public to
see this to show them how bad it is, and that is
permitted under the statute, because it is not
"presenting"?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I mean there would be
another way to try to get at that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I agree with you that we
have different motives.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I'm not sure that the
statute covers that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, there might be a way
in which the statute could cover it, and it would be, as
follows, which basically is if I'm going to portray that
as material that is -- and I'm going to portray it only
in a way that makes it clear that I have a valid
as-applied challenge, then I'm not sure I would be
satisfying the objective and the subjective scienter
requirements for that statute. Because it would be
clear that, although I was presenting it as visual
depictions of children who had that happen to them, I
was presenting it exclusively for its scientific,
artistic, literary value. And, therefore, in a sense, I
was building my as-applied challenge into the way I was
marketing it. I think you could --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, you have a
problem not just with the presenting, not just with the
pandering of it. You have a problem with the mere
possession of it. You have to find some exception for
that anyway. You have to find some as- applied
challenge exception for the mere possession of it, even
if you don't pander it.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia,
that's exactly right. And that's why I would think the
logical way to proceed would be you would find an
as-applied exception to the basic prohibition. And
then, naturally, that would apply to the pandering
provision.
I was only sort of suggesting, if pressed,
that in some ways it might actually be easier to find a
way to get that outside the statute with respect to the
pandering and solicitation provision than for the
possession for this.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But how would you do it in
the case -- you mentioned that if there is not actual
child porn shown, and there is a truthful or honest
statement about it, that there is nothing to worry
about.
But what about the movie reviewer who is
reviewing the latest re-release or something of the
"Lolita" film and says this depicts sexual activity with
a minor?
That statement is true. It would be taken
by some naive people as saying boy, this is what it
shows, the real thing. That is a truthful statement.
And yet, it would still fall within the prohibition of
the statute.
As I understand your position, the only way
that statement would be truthful in a way that would
excuse would be if the reviewer said this depicts sexual
activity with a minor, but of course the actor wasn't
really a minor. Isn't that correct?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, that is not correct,
Justice Souter. And I would say that that hypothetical
is outside the ambit of the statute for two reasons.
First of all, I don't think that the movie
reviewer is promoting or presenting the underlying
materials. They would be out for that reason.
I also think they would be out because, when
you started applying the objective and the subjective
requirements of the statute, you would not find either
of them satisfied with respect to that.
If I know you're talking about a mainstream
movie, and you say it depicts sex with a minor, I'm not
going to naturally think that comes within the ambit of
the statute, that it is actual child pornography within
the meaning of the statute.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What if you are 17 years
old and you haven't gone to law school and you haven't
read these cases? You may very well assume that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: With respect, Justice
Souter, that's why I think it is important to have both
an objective and a subjective requirement. And I think
the objective requirement alone would take that out.
If I could reserve the remainder of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do we use a seven year old
for the objective requirement?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, I wouldn't think so.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We would use a --
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think we would use a
reasonable person. That's why --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- reasonable adult, I had
thought.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Exactly, and that's why I
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: Wouldn't we use -- wouldn't
we use a reasonable personal of the sort who goes to
movies?
GENERAL CLEMENT: That would be fine,
Justice Souter, and if --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I would suppose my 17 year
old, non- law-school graduate would be within the ambit
of the reasonable class.
GENERAL CLEMENT: And I would submit that
even a 17 year old, non-law student would know that
movies depict things that don't actually happen. When
they see a murder on screen, that's not actually a
murder. And so I think they would understand that
that's a movie. It's not child pornography.
If I may reserve the remainder of my time.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You could -- just one
question. You mentioned a film, "Traffic," which I did
not see, but one of the briefs said there was an actual
17 year old playing that part.
But you said that wouldn't be -- that
wouldn't fit.
GENERAL CLEMENT: "Traffic" is not child
pornography. I understand that the actress was 17 at
the time of the film, but we don't think that comes
within the ambit of the basic prohibition on child
pornography, because we think that simulated sexual
activity has to be interpreted with enough subtlety that
it doesn't capture that. And that's the position --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the statute says
simulated.
GENERAL CLEMENT: It does. But so does the
statute in Ferber. And we don't think that introduced
any overbreadth or vagueness that was fatal. This
statute here just picks up on that definition. It
doesn't add to it.
If I may reserve --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Clement.
Mr. Diaz.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD J. DIAZ
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MR. DIAZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The pandering provision of the PROTECT Act
carries a 5-year mandatory minimum prison term and a
possible 20-year prison term, has no affirmative defense
provision. It is unconstitutionally vague and
overbroad, because on its face it captures protected
speech about materials. And it captures speech about
materials that may not even in fact exist.
The language "in a manner that reflects the
belief, or that is intended to cause another to
believe," does not sufficiently define prohibited
conduct giving law enforcement unfettered discretion to
subjectively enforce the statute.
In essence, as the Eleventh Circuit held,
the determination does not rest on what materials
contain, but rather on how someone conveys his or her
impression about what the materials convey. In other
words, this statute, in short, punishes thought,
beliefs, expressions, and opinions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there's a
difference, isn't there, between beliefs and thoughts
about -- what, the legality of a particular type of
pornography or something like that, and a factual
matter? I thought this was child pornography? Saying
this regulates thoughts and beliefs, those are two quite
different questions, aren't they?
MR. DIAZ: Yes, it is, Mr. Chief Justice.
And one of the problems with the statute, and just
another example of what we've been talking about here --
amazon.com and Netflix -- there's also, for example, a
series of photography that we've seen nationwide by
famous photographers of minors or children,
photographers of child modeling agencies --
JUSTICE BREYER: But none of those -- I
mean, we've gone through this with the Solicitor
General. He went through every example in his brief
that you've been able to produce, and he said they
aren't caught by the statute. What's wrong with what he
said? Why isn't that so?
MR. DIAZ: If --
JUSTICE BREYER: Photographers, for example.
That's not child pornography. And if it was, they would
have to act -- if it is child pornography under Ferber,
it isn't protected. If it isn't child pornography under
Ferber, well, then there's no problem. Okay. That's
their view of the photographers. And the same with
Amazon, the same with Netflix.
MR. DIAZ: Correct. The problem is if I
were to take anything such as the CNN video of an actual
sexually explicit conduct involving a minor, or if I
were to take any of these films, if I were to start an
Internet blog and say, look, this film contains sexual
conduct of a minor, and I think we should do something
about this, I think we should form a coalition or I
think we should boycott it. And I am conveying the
belief. I am intending to make you believe that what
those materials contain, albeit what they really have or
what they really are, is illegal.
JUSTICE BREYER: Problem with Ferber, you
said. Same problem.
MR. DIAZ: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE BREYER: So what's your response to
what he said? It is the -- with possession. You
possess these materials. What you are trying to do is
take them to the police and stop them. Under Ferber, is
that protected or not? If it is protected, as I think
it would be, so is it here.
MR. DIAZ: I do not think it would be
protected.
JUSTICE BREYER: Then under Ferber he's
going to go right to jail because he has them. I would
think it would be protected. I can't imagine somebody
who collects, on these sites where they are molesting
children, material to prevent children being molested
and presents it to the proper authority is going to be
prosecuted under the New York statute in Ferber.
MR. DIAZ: If the material substantively
violates the statute, then the mere possession of them
is illegal. And there is a defense under the possession
part of the statute for presenting them to the police
within a certain amount of time and within a certain
manner of your conduct.
What we're talking about here is not the
possession of the materials. We're talking about the
expression about what the materials contain. Even if
you're wrong about it, even if you're mistaken, even if
you're lying about it, even if you're bragging about it,
the traditional prankster, as Senator Leahy said in the
congressional report, one of the things we're concerned
about with the statute is that it could capture people
who are expressing salacious thoughts.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or just good honest liars,
right? I had thought that the purpose of the First
Amendment was to protect speech that had some value, and
that the reason obscenity is excluded entirely from
First Amendment protection is that it has no redeeming
social value.
What social value do you find in being able
to lie about the content of what you're offering to
somebody else? You say somehow if you're lying about
it, oh, well, then the First Amendment protects that. I
would think if you're lying about it, it is clearer than
ever the First Amendment doesn't protect it. There is
no social value in protecting lies.
MR. DIAZ: One of the problems with the
issue of social value and lying is that we don't put
people in jail for 5 mandatory minimum years or 20 years
in prison for simply lying. We simply don't do that. I
agree with Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it depends on what
they're lying about. If they're lying about the value
of what they're selling, you know, it's fraud.
MR. DIAZ: And I agree with Your Honor --
Justice Scalia, that we have a slew of State statutes
particularly in the area of consumer fraud. If I
pretend to have something that's illegal and offer it to
you or promote it to you or advertise it to you, and I
have nothing, then that person can and should be
punished, but not for -- not under this statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Tell me what social value
are we protecting here, by protecting the lie about
whether this thing that really isn't child pornography
is? What -- why would we want to protect that?
MR. DIAZ: We necessarily do not want to
protect that. But we don't punish it with a 5 to
20-year prison sentence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are you complaining about
the degree of the penalty?
MR. DIAZ: It is not just the degree of the
penalty. The statute doesn't just cover liars, Justice
Scalia. It also covers people who are mistaken. It
covers exaggeration. It covers puffing.
For example, if I have a legitimate clean
videotape that I want to duplicate, I may be violating
trademark or other patent laws or whatnot, but I want to
take this and I want to sell it in the marketplace over
the Internet. And I exaggerate by the words that I
choose to use in promoting that tape for commercial
purpose, for example, and I'm exaggerating.
That person if they market the materials in
a way that causes the potential buyers to believe that
what it has is illegal, even if I'm just puffing or
bragging, the car salesman in a car sales situation, we
don't like it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's an
entirely different thing to say that this car is a great
car and it turns out not to be a great car, and to say
what you have is either -- is not -- is child
pornography when, in fact, it's not. Those are two
different things.
MR. DIAZ: I think it could be very -- in
the real world I think it is very easy for a person to
puff about what materials contain that are lawful to
possess, such as Titanic, Lolita or American Beauty.
And all you would have to say is, put a trailer on it
and say that this is hot graphic teen sex, and you're
puffing about what it really is. We know -- you know it
really isn't.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The statute has an
objective component. To the objective observer, it must
reasonably cause them to believe that it's actually
child pornography. So that -- that would be -- that
would prevent sort of the vague puffery that you're
talking about from being covered while still covering
something that satisfies both the subjective and
objective test.
MR. DIAZ: Mr. Chief Justice, I think that
if a person listens to or hears somebody describe
Titanic, Lolita, American Beauty or any of the films of
the like as hot graphic teen sex, I think a reasonable
ordinary person could believe that what is being
portrayed is proscribed material, even if it doesn't
exist, or even if it exists and is protected under
Ferber.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You seem to think we are
punishing the lying. I don't read the statute as
punishing the lying.
MR. DIAZ: No, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You'd be punished even if
it were true. What is being punished is the pandering.
You are the one that's bringing in the lying example.
You say, my goodness, even if the pandering is a lie,
pandering is pandering. And I don't see why there is
some special protection against pandering when in
addition to pandering, you're lying.
Maybe you ought to get extra penalty.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: But, in fact, the statute
does not provide extra penalty. It just provides a
penalty for pandering. And I don't know why it's a good
defense to that to say, oh, I was actually lying. I
mean --
MR. DIAZ: I don't think -- I think the
statute covers people who brag, people who puff, people
who tell the truth, who --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about "present"?
The word "pandering" itself is not used in the statute.
It uses a lot of words, "promote" and "advertise" --
well, maybe that's just redundant. I guess that would
be the government's position -- but "present,"
"distribute" -- what else?
JUSTICE SCALIA: All of those verbs only
become pandering when they are attached to explicit
sexual material. When you promote explicit sex, you are
pandering. I mean, the word pandering does have a
sexual connotation. I -- I think -- I had thought it
was accepted that we have here a statute that's directed
against pandering.
MR. DIAZ: But the problem with the statute,
while it does capture pandering and illegal conduct, it
goes beyond that and captures a slew of innocent conduct
which we discussed this morning in the examples --
JUSTICE ALITO: What would you say is the
best realistic example that you can provide to show that
this is overbroad?
MR. DIAZ: The best and realistic example
would be any person, not necessarily amazon.com or
Netflix, it could be a private citizen. It could be a
religious leader of a religious group, regardless of
what type of religion we're talking about.
It could be any of those people --
JUSTICE ALITO: Doing -- doing what?
MR. DIAZ: Who look at the -- the Nan Goldin
pictures, who look at Lolita, Traffic and all of these
other movies and harbor a belief that it is obscene,
which is one of the two types of materials that's
proscribed.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose we did this? What
would you think about an opinion, and why, which says
the following? We take every one of those examples and
all the ones listed here and put them in appendix A, and
the opinion says this is the Solicitor General's
interpretation of the statute, as amended, say with the
word presentment, which comes out of promotion infer,
and we think under that interpretation of the statute,
none of these things, nor anything like them, could be
prosecuted.
And if so understood, we can find no
example, at least none not present in Ferber itself,
where this would be overbroad. Therefore, it is
constitutional. I'm not saying that is my view. I am
saying simply I want to know your opinion about what
would be wrong with such an opinion.
MR. DIAZ: My opinion, Justice Breyer, is
that could be done. We could put a dozen or two dozen
or three dozen, an exponential number of examples, that
would be excluded. Essentially we would be writing an
affirmative defense into the statute or an absolute
defense that would prohibit even the prosecution. The
concern that that raises for me, in answer to Your
Honor's question, is you're still going to have a
chilling on free speech. There are still going to be
people out there who are not covered by one of these
examples who we haven't thought of, and that person is
going to be afraid to express opinions.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I suppose if we were
going to do that it would be simpler and maybe prudent
for us to reexamine our overbreadth rule. Your client
here falls within none of these examples. He was
convicted of having what everyone recognizes as not only
child pornography but involving a very small child. And
he knew what it was. And he -- and he conveyed that
belief.
Given the fact that it would appear that
child pornography is a growing problem, a serious
problem on the Internet, maybe we should examine the
overbreadth rule and just say that your client cannot
make this challenge.
MR. DIAZ: The Court can certainly do that,
Justice Kennedy. Essentially, though, I think what the
Court would be doing would be taking the four areas of
speech that have been taken out of the First Amendment
protection, which is defamation, the fighting words
under Brandenburg, Miller, which is obscenity, and the
additional extension of Ferber. Now what we would be
doing is carving yet another area of speech out of the
First Amendment, and we're just going to continue
chipping it away and chipping it away.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. I don't think
that is responsive to Justice Kennedy's point. You
wouldn't be carving it out of the First Amendment. You
would be saying we're going to treat this area like
other areas, which would say that whoever is challenging
it has to show that they're a problematic case.
In other words, your client is relying -- he
didn't produce Lolita. You're relying on the effect on
other people, and that is what our overbreadth doctrine
allows, if there's a substantial amount of speech that's
protected. And what I understood the question to
suggest is that we would wait basically for as-applied
challenges when Lolita is being prosecuted and we would
hear from them, but not in your case.
MR. DIAZ: That certainly could be done,
Mr. Chief Justice. Again, and as I suggested earlier,
the problem with that is that we're not talking about
anything less than a criminal statute, a criminal
statute that implicates the First Amendment, freedom and
thought which this Court since its very existence has
said we have to honor and respect, even if people are
thinking about nasty or dirty things.
That's what this country is based upon, and
the grave concern if we're going to do it on an
as-applied challenge, is people who might be afraid to
express their views about whether this is or is not
obscene. It's is the parent of a neighborhood group who
see a movie and wants to tell everybody about it and
say, look --
JUSTICE ALITO: Here we have -- we have one
statute that covers advertising, promoting, presenting,
distributing, and soliciting. Suppose that all of those
activities were not lumped together in one statute, and
there was a separate provision for each, and suppose
that the Court were to conclude that there is a problem
with one of them. Let's say promotes or presents.
Would all of the others fall as well, under
the overbreadth doctrine, if they were set out in
separate statutory provisions?
MR. DIAZ: I believe that that would more
narrowly tailor the statute, but I don't believe,
Justice Alito, that it would solve the problem of
chilling speech.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but isn't the problem
the problem of your answer to Justice Breyer's
hypothetical. He said, you know, what if we have this
appendix and we list -- I forget what he said, three
dozen examples that the Solicitor General says wouldn't
be covered and that sounds fine to us. Your answer was
well, there would still be some examples not covered.
But isn't -- isn't the answer to that that
there would be some conceivable overbreadth, I suppose,
no matter what the appendix said? Somewhere out there
there would be an example not covered that would be the
basis for an as-applied challenge, but there wouldn't be
substantial overbreadth. And isn't that the case? That
if Justice Breyer's hypo were in fact the decision of
this case, there wouldn't be a fair argument that there
is any substantial overbreadth left to the statute,
isn't that so?
MR. DIAZ: That -- it could be, and that
would depend. I agree with Your Honor, Justice Souter,
that we have this world or this universe of overbroad
speech, and the appendix would shrink it and make it
narrower.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And rewrite -- and
essentially rewriting the law, and that's my question
about this technique that Justice Breyer has proposed.
This Court is not generally in the business of writing
appendices that say well, the statute couldn't apply in
this situation, and it couldn't apply and as long as we
put those contours around it. Certainly the Court could
write an opinion that would inform Congress why this
particular statute as written is overbroad, and explain
what kind of statute wouldn't be overbroad.
But for the Court itself, I think that
that -- I don't know any instance in which we have
provided that kind of appendix that said things that are
like Traffic, they're okay, and things that are like
something else are not okay. I don't know.
MR. DIAZ: With respect, my initial response
to Justice Breyer's suggestion, if you will, was the
same as Your Honor, Justice Ginsburg. I don't know that
creating an appendix of examples is going to cure the
problem. I do concede that it would lessen the problem.
We would -- we would --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would it lessen? I
assume whatever you put in an appendix, saying all these
other situations that are not before us are not covered.
Isn't that the most blatant dictum? But -- but -- and,
of course, we're not bound in later cases by our dicta.
But come to think of it, I guess the whole doctrine of
overbreadth rests upon dictum, doesn't it? It -- it
rests upon our determination in this case, which
involves somebody who undoubtedly was selling child
porn, and a horrible kind of child porn -- we say in
this case, oh, we can -- we can contemplate other cases,
where we would not hold the person guilty. That is all
dictum, too, isn't it?
So I guess the whole doctrine is -- is based
on dictum. So we may as well put it in all an appendix.
Let's put our dictum in an appendix. I agree.
MR. DIAZ: In answer to Your Honor's
question or comment --
(Laughter.)
MR. DIAZ: -- the -- I agree that the issue
of overbreadth is something where we're looking at
boundaries. And that's really what I think the Court
does in a situation of overbreadth analysis. You look
at the boundaries. How much -- how far we've gone
outside of the boundaries of what is protected.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it's the
boundary between what is -- what should be protected in
relation to what's unprotected.
So what's the ratio between legitimate films
like Lolita and illegitimate child pornography? In
other words, is, in fact, the protected material
substantial in relation to the law's legitimate sweep?
MR. DIAZ: The problem is we don't have an
empirical answer, a mathematic answer to that question.
What we do know is that films like Lolita, American
Beauty, and whatnot, which if presented in a certain way
can bring people under the coverage of the statute, have
received acclaim around the world, I mean all sorts of
academy awards. They're seen time and time again.
They're seen on Netflix. They're seen on cable TV. To
this day, some of these movies have been around for 30
years.
JUSTICE BREYER: Of course, the point of the
-- the point of the appendix, which unfortunately has
the failing of many charming metaphors, is that it has
acquired a life of its own.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: It distracts from the
question. But it -- as I read the Solicitor General's
interpretation of the statute, and amended it, taking
the word "presentment" from its context in Ferber, where
it was part of the definition of promotion, I thought
that was the appendix. At least, that's my hypothetical
question. And so whether you like appendices or don't
like appendices, you could focus on why isn't it the
appendix I'm talking about?
He's filled it with qualifications using the
words "knowingly, reasonable," and a context that if it
is not purely commercial, as I understood, is at least
commercial plus a few things such as bartering.
That was really my question, and you've come
back to American Beauty and so forth, and if there's one
thing I think his definition keeps out of this
discussion, it is American Beauty and Traffic, because I
don't see under his interpretation how anyone could
conceivably be prosecuted even if he's talking to a
group who have never seen a movie. That isn't a
reasonable group of people. So what is your response to
what he said?
MR. DIAZ: My response, Justice Breyer, is
that if you take the word "present" and you give it the
meaning that it was given in Ferber, you make the
statute narrower. You make it -- bring it into more of
a constitutionally acceptable realm, but I respectfully
do not believe that it cures the entire problem, and my
basis for saying that the question of Justice Souter of
the Solicitor General. You know -- the concern is, when
you don't have lawyers who understand these
hypertechnical meanings that the Court is going to give
and the interpretations we're going to put on them --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't the answer to
that you may still have some overbreadth left, but it's
not substantial? Most 17 year olds are, in fact, going
to realize that the real thing is not going on in, you
know, the Lolita movie. And if we accept that as a
factual proposition, which was the Solicitor General's
answer, and if we also accept, not by way of appendix
but way of rationale in the opinion, that these various
activities have got to be given an essentially
commercial or quasi-commercial character, so that they
don't pick up the conversations with the neighbor, then
that's simply a matter of statutory interpretation that
could be part of our rationale. If we accept the
factual proposition about what reasonable viewers are
likely to know, and we engage in that kind of
interpretation following the Solicitor General's view of
how this serial list of activities should be construed,
don't we eliminate the possibility -- wouldn't we
eliminate the possibility of substantial overbreadth?
Some things may get by. There may still be legitimate
applied challenges, but substantial overbreadth, would
that be left?
MR. DIAZ: I think it would, but concededly
to a lesser degree, because once you make it clear as to
what matters are not covered by the statute, it makes it
easier for people to conform their conduct and their
words accordingly. The concern that I have is that it
still chills a -- it still chills free speech. If a
person looks at an appendix or looks at the rationale in
the Court's opinion in this case --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It can, but can you give me
an example of a class of activities that would not be,
in effect, insulated from indictment by these two steps
in the opinion, that would be of substantial character?
MR. DIAZ: Certainly, and I go back to the
question of Justice Breyer which is adolescents, 17 year
olds, 18 year olds, who like to look at these types of
materials and one of them could simply say to another
over the Internet, you know, do you think we can get
some hardcore child porn? He's soliciting child porn
from another person, and that individual, that 17 year
old kid, who's fantasizing or experimenting with his own
sexuality, can go to jail for 5 to 20 years. And we see
that in everyday America, in high schools around the
country.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we see them getting
prosecuted in any state?
MR. DIAZ: If he's soliciting materials
under sub (i) or sub (ii) of the statute, of the
pandering provision of the statute, yes. That person
can be prohibited. Excuse me, that person can be
prosecuted.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I asked you have there
been such cases? A lot of states have pandering laws
now, and is the case that you posit a case that has
occurred in any of those states?
MR. DIAZ: Your Honor, I cannot cite a
specific example, but I can certainly tell Your Honor
this -- prosecutions from 1997 to 2004 have increased
over 452 percent. The conviction rate --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Maybe that's because the
quantity of material has increased.
MR. DIAZ: Exactly. And the conviction rate
is 99.6 percent. And --
JUSTICE ALITO: And if one person says to
another, can we get some child pornography, how is that
solicitation?
MR. DIAZ: "Can you get me."
JUSTICE ALITO: Oh, "can you get me."
MR. DIAZ: "Can you get me."
JUSTICE ALITO: And you think that's
protected by the First Amendment? Asking someone for
child pornography is protected?
MR. DIAZ: First of all, it may not be
protected by the First Amendment, but it shouldn't be
captured by this statute, which puts that 17 year old in
jail for 5 to 20 years.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The only thing that
limits the statute is the First Amendment. What else --
you say it may not be covered by the First Amendment.
What else gives you a right to challenge the statute?
MR. DIAZ: I don't think that it is
necessarily not covered by the First Amendment. I think
certainly the First Amendment -- and this Court has
held, that we protect salacious thoughts, salacious
ideas.
JUSTICE ALITO: But it's not thought at that
point. It's a request to obtain contraband, which fuels
the production of the contraband. Is it protected by
the First Amendment or not, soliciting child
pornography?
MR. DIAZ: I think the First Amendment is
implied, but I don't think it becomes criminal conduct
until you get to either an attempt, solicitation, or a
conspiracy. You have to do more than just say I would
like to get it or can you get it for me, to be guilty of
the statute.
JUSTICE ALITO: To fall -- to fall under the
statute or to be protected by the First Amendment or not
protected by the First Amendment?
MR. DIAZ: Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: Which is it?
MR. DIAZ: To fall within the protection of
the First Amendment. And another example that comes to
mind is a person has material which they believe is
child pornography. They give it to somebody else, such
as Lolita, for an opinion and they present to it that
person. One of the biggest problems or one of the
biggest -- the verb that's most objectionable in the
statute is "present," because it does not have to have
any commercial requirement.
JUSTICE ALITO: I mean the model penal code
has a general prohibition of soliciting illegal
activities. Are you saying that that's -- that
provision violates the First Amendment? Because it's
just words?
MR. DIAZ: Solicitation is a crime in and of
itself, and talking about or expressing a desire to
obtain is not -- doesn't quite go to the level of
solicitation or intent, where there has to be a
proximity in time, in immediacy, and a certain
geographical proximity between the words and the comment
that you intend.
JUSTICE ALITO: But I thought the word in
the statute is "solicit."
MR. DIAZ: Well, there's "solicit" and
there's also "present." It works in both directions.
JUSTICE ALITO: If you're asking somebody
for child pornography, you're not presenting child
pornography.
MR. DIAZ: Correct. I agree.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Diaz.
General Clement, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
GENERAL CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
Overbreadth, as this court has reminded us
any number of times, is strong medicine, and that is
why, even in the First Amendment context, as-applied
challenges remain the basic building blocks of
adjudication. Rejection of this overbreadth challenge
here does not mean that the courts will not be open to
here as-applied challenges going forward. Of course,
the Respondent here has no claim that the statute is
unconstitutional as applied to him.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can we reject the
overbreadth challenge here and still leave an
overbreadth doctrine for some other cases? I'm not sure
how we could do that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think you could,
Justice Kennedy. You could -- I mean the burden here is
on the challenger who doesn't say that the statute's
unconstitutional as-applied to them to show substantial
overbreadth in absolute terms and relative to the
statute's legitimate sweep. And it's interesting that
neither Respondent nor the court of appeals ever engaged
in that latter inquiry. And that's a critical inquiry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How is it different it
would be strange to trust out the document -- the
doctrine as I -- as I understand it is what we relied on
when we had the predecessor to this statute before.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Ginsburg I'm not
urging that you get rid of overbreadth doctrine once and
for all -- probably be in the government's interest. I
am simply saying that if you apply overbreadth analyses,
the way it supposed to be applied it's not satisfied
here. It's not just enough for you to envision a couple
of hypotheticals. It has to be the overbreadth has to
be substantial relative to the legitimate sweep of the
statute. This Court in Virginia against Hicks said
faulted the lower court opinion because it had no
analyses whatsoever of valid versus invalid
applications. The proportionality aspect of this courts
overbreadth jurisprudence was ignored entirely. That
could be verbatim the holding of this case. The 11
circuit did engage in that relative analysis. When my
brother was asked for empirical evidence about the
comparison he said he didn't have any. With all due
respect, I think that's fatal to his case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How did that occur in --
free speech coalition.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think, in the way I
would explain that is I didn't think you get -- you
found there was such absolute overbreadth that you
didn't even reach the proportionality inquiry. In any
invent Hicks was decided afterwards, and I think Hicks
makes very clear that you have to have both absolute and
relative. I would say one last thing, though. This is
first and foremost you start with the facts of this case
and the facts of this case I think caution against
reading the word presents out of the statute or reading
it unduly narrowly.
The gravamen of the pandering here was not
just the offer of pictures of this individual and his
daughter, but was his claim that I can post these actual
images of child pornography on this group site because
I'm for real and I'm not an undercover agent. Now that
seems to be within the epicenter of the statute but it's
not for profit. It was doing it to establish his bona
fide. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you general
the case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:01 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted .)
adolescent amazon.com 47:6 48:3 a.m 1:13 3:2
55:6 18:25,25 30:10 37:22 19:15 53:25
54:11,14 48:10 26:8,18 27:20 24:23 47:20 B 10:17
37:3 32:24 33:1,6,8 applying 16:2 16:21
advertises 14:4 50:4,7,8,14,16 area 22:24 33:20 basic 7:4,11,19
41:14 American 22:2 2:2,7 3:3 29:3 basically 24:7
47:8,16 12:4,7,10 29:9 analyses 53:17 asking 49:21 35:9,24 45:5
51:13 39:3 53:24 52:2 46:6,8
17:10,15 12:8 44:17 54:3 53:25 2:4,6,9 29:4
21:16 afraid 39:10 analyze 7:10 assume 21:9 52:11
26:4 41:8 23:12 23:6 26:23 behavior 13:20
age 15:15,16 answer 9:21 43:21 belief 29:15
23:1 aggressive 19:19 anterior 6:18 25:4 40:20 believe 4:4 8:19
8:21 9:9 23:25 33:14,18 appeals 3:22 52:16,20 53:5 29:16 31:11
18:5 19:6 42:20 44:10,14 53:8 atrocities 5:23 34:21 35:16
52:5 appear 39:19 attached 5:5 36:1 41:23,24
21:18 albeit 31:12 APPEARAN... 37:8 46:19 51:4
26:19 Alito 17:23 18:1 1:14 attaches 4:25 best 37:19,21
31:4 18:7 37:18 appendices 43:3 attempt 50:18 better 9:21
38:2 41:13,25 45:23,24 authority 32:5 beyond 37:16
28:16 32:20 48:8 54:3 collects 32:3
35:1,2,2 28:25 29:5,25 54:22 comment 44:12
carries 29:8 35:14,22 40:9 clarity 13:6 commercial
case 3:4 11:6,22 52:7,12 55:3 27:21 48:6 17:2,8 34:18
15:7,10 25:13 40:14,22 child 4:2,5,19 clean 34:13 46:3,4 47:9
17:5 42:14,16 44:2 5:7,20 6:22 7:5 clear 3:9 11:21 51:10
31:14 44:5 48:4 49:4 7:20,22,25 8:2 15:25 17:9 committed 5:23
38:8 49:4 54:2,6,16 8:11,12,21 9:9 24:9,13 47:23 common 15:12
43:1 54:17 55:4,5 9:12,15,17 54:14 comparable
46:14 cases 26:23 10:10,12 11:20 clearer 33:7 11:23
43:24 44:5 12:15,20 14:7 clearly 5:14,18 comparison
42:3,15 Catholic 21:1,5 17:13 18:2,5 16:24 23:4 compelling 3:25
22:8 18:25 19:4,7,7 Clement 1:15 complaining
cause 4:4 29:15 20:5,7 21:18 5:2 6:4,8,17,21 component 8:17
35:16 21:21,24 22:2 7:3,15 8:6,14 9:5,25,25
21:23 causes 34:21 22:15 23:14 9:20 10:2,25 22:20 23:8
caution 54:17 25:14 26:19 11:25 12:13,17 35:15
challenge 7:6,8 52:3,3 54:23 24:2,5 25:1 17:18
32:12 50:12,13 43:22 47:24 Department directions 52:1
47:25 contrary 16:9 50:4,7 1:16 dirty 15:11 18:4
conversations covering 13:4,4 depend 42:20 41:5
43:6 conveyed 39:17 36:24 41:14 depiction 5:23 disgusting 12:15
conveys 29:21 crime 6:25 7:2 depictions 24:14 distinction
conviction 49:9 crimes 6:12 25:19 26:3,17 21:25
Coral 1:18 50:17 35:23 distribute 37:6
26:5,6 31:3 13:16 desire 51:17 distributing
countless 5:10 cure 43:17 29:20 44:2 41:15
41:6 48:19 cut 14:24 29:2,3,5 30:7 doctrine 40:17
23:18 course 7:18 9:4 D 31:23 32:7 44:8 52:25
15:25 24:19 d 1:15 2:3,8 3:1 33:10,18 34:4 53:12,15
45:12 52:20 daughter 54:22 36:8,23 37:14 doing 38:2,2
3:9,22 7:18 debased 22:25 39:24 40:23 double 9:2
39:24 40:1 54:13 43:14 44:11,14 dozen 38:25,25
47:16 43:9 44:16 defamation 40:3 47:22 48:9,22 drawing 14:24
32:15 53:23 10:14,14,16 50:25 51:2,16 duplicate 34:14
courts 52:19 11:5,12 12:4,8 51:25 52:5,7 D.C 1:8,16
Court's 20:20 32:9 36:21 dictum 43:23 E
cover 17:15 24:6 defenses 10:23 difference 15:20 earlier 11:18
33:4 coverage 45:6 definition 19:19 different 13:3 early 16:2
45:20 5:9 6:3 7:11 28:22 45:21 21:22 24:1 47:25
52:16 12:19,22,24 46:7 30:6 35:1,5 easy 35:7
5:21 27:12 49:12 expressing fighting 40:3 20:20 21:1
exaggerate 32:21 51:17 filled 46:1 39:7 48:2 54:8
17:11 exaggerating 32:15 5:13,14 6:14 frequency 18:6
35:3 34:19 expressions 6:22 7:25 8:2 frequently
exaggeration 29:24 8:11 21:11 18:18
example 7:4 extent 7:23 17:1 44:23 45:4 10:3
30:9,10,16,21 25:3,8 26:14 furnishing
37:19,21 38:19 face 3:23 29:11 fine 10:20 27:17
49:7 51:3 29:13 35:4 first 3:4,11 4:9 G 3:1
12:8 37:17 38:10 42:15 44:25 10:11 14:24 gather 17:4
29:17 39:1,9,14 42:6 47:2 20:18 26:9 GEN 1:15 2:3,8
exception 23:16 factual 30:3 40:2,7,11 41:2 general 1:15 3:6
excluded 32:25 fair 42:16 51:3,14 52:16 9:20 10:2,25
54:1 24:15 fall 25:24 41:20 Fla 1:18 15:9,19 16:5
36:3 famous 30:12 footnote 14:12 21:18,20 22:4
15:20 fatal 28:21 54:6 foreign 5:24 27:12,17,22
42:25 explain 43:7 Ferber 7:18,21 form 31:9 51:12 52:8,12
54:10 18:13 19:3 forth 20:25 53:2,14 54:9
exponential 32:6 36:4 found 54:11 General's 38:12
grave 41:7 horrible 44:4 48:15 54:21 44:14
great 35:1,2 35:25 15:15 J
16:4 group 37:24 46:23 inform 43:6 jail 32:1 33:12
20:2 41:10 46:11,12 hypo 42:15 information 4:3 48:17 50:1
28:4,17 54:23 hypothetical infrequently job 18:13 19:3
42:24 growing 39:20 18:9 26:7 42:4 18:19,20 jurisprudence
48:20 guess 5:9 6:18 45:22 initial 43:14 54:1
50:2 7:12 37:4 hypotheticals innocent 37:16 Justice 1:16 3:3
54:7 43:25 44:8 3:25 18:2 inquiry 53:9,9 3:7,24 4:7,24
51:5 43:10 7:12,21 8:6,10
47:8 hand 15:3 22:11 ideas 50:10 insulated 48:7 9:23 10:2,20
17:3 haphazard illegal 31:13 intending 31:11 13:8,14,25
11:24 32:9 33:21 intent 9:5,8 14:10,11,23
48:9,17 27:24 51:12 interest 53:16 16:4,7,12,17
happening 6:13 illegitimate interested 14:8 17:5,7,17,23
11:13 images 54:23 22:16 31:7 20:12,24 21:3
26:18 hardcore 20:9 immediacy 48:13 21:19 22:3,11
39:6,7 48:14 51:20 interpret 8:16 22:18,23 23:12
40:7 hear 3:3 40:22 implicates 41:2 14:1,21 15:23 23:19,25 24:3
41:7 hears 35:23 implied 50:17 interpretation 24:19 25:1,12
46:23,24 held 22:11,14,25 important 5:19 38:13,15 45:19 26:7,21,24
52:20 29:19 50:9 18:8 19:13,17 46:9 47:11,15 27:4,7,10,14
36:20 high 48:18 29:22 interpreted 29:25 30:7,14
holding 54:2 increased 49:8 28:20 33:15,19,25
37:5 32:22 independently invent 54:13 35:14,22 36:5
honor 33:14,18 12:11 invite 15:22 36:8,9,18 37:1
52:6 indicted 10:24 involving 31:5 40:9,10,24
44:13 45:16 38:4 40:16,21 materia 10:5 merely 11:11,11
law 10:18 12:8 44:24 45:4 12:6 11:13,23
17:11 26:22 47:4 51:6 material 10:18 message 11:21
50:2,11 29:17 42:25 long 43:4 10:19 11:16,22 metaphors
51:1,11 lawful 3:20 35:8 look 6:2 12:21 12:9 13:10 45:14
52:2,7 laws 34:15 49:3 13:12 14:7,9 17:21,22 21:21 MICHAEL 1:6
53:3 lawyers 46:22 15:5 31:7 38:3 24:8 32:4,7 Miller 40:4
54:7 law's 45:1 38:4 41:12 36:2 37:9 mind 17:5 51:4
law-school 44:17 48:11 44:25 49:11 minimum 29:8
looking 15:11 51:4 33:12
20:24 21:3 leave 52:24 lot 13:16 37:3 19:22 20:21 minors 21:10,13
left 42:17 47:1 49:3 21:23,24 23:9 21:15 30:12
22:3,11 47:21 lower 53:23 23:15 26:11 minutes 52:8
23:12,19 legality 30:2 lumped 41:16 29:12,13,20,22 misleading 5:16
24:3 legitimate 34:13 lying 32:17 33:5 31:12,19 32:14 5:18
52:23 44:23 45:1 33:7,11,13,16 32:15 34:20 misrepresent
47:19 53:7,21 33:16 36:6,7 35:8 38:6 15:16
lesser 47:23 mathematic 5:14
44:10 18:22 11:13 13:3 mistaken 32:16
43:8,11 lie 33:4 34:1 12:21 13:6 55:6 modeling 30:13
47:14 36:12 15:1,5 18:3 matters 47:24 molested 32:4
17:20 light 14:14 5:10 8:25 9:8 18:9 21:5 morning 3:4
26:16 likewise 3:13 26:16 22:13,14,17 37:17
33:17 limited 4:12 making 13:10 23:23 30:15 motion 8:24,25
36:20 16:13,19 17:8 14:5 36:22 37:10 motives 24:1
42:4 17:10,14 man 8:1 45:7 51:11 moved 19:5
limits 50:3 mandatory 29:8 52:19 53:3 movie 4:1,2,4,11
46:21 line 14:24 17:2 33:12 meaning 4:11 4:20,25 5:1,4,6
48:13 list 42:5 47:16 manner 8:20 7:22 14:14 5:7,20,21,23
listens 35:23 market 4:13,16 meanings 46:23 22:1 25:17
29:14 Lolita 8:5 9:7 marketplace mere 24:21,24 27:16,24 38:5
28:1 objective 8:17 opinion 38:9,12 54:20 31:1
9:25 38:22,23,24 pardon 21:7 photography
obscene 38:5 opposed 18:25 43:7 pictures 6:7
obscenity 32:25 29:3 8:23 14:12 18:22 38:4
obtain 50:12 ought 36:16 patent 34:15 Playboy 19:1
14:3 occasions 16:1 outside 23:18 2:8 52:10 28:7
occur 18:5 54:7 25:9 26:8 penal 51:11 please 3:8 29:6
occurs 18:19,19 overbreadth 36:16,19,20 point 4:10 10:21
34:4 offense 10:22 41:21 42:10,14 19:6 25:22 police 9:13,18
50:7 11:15,15 42:17 44:1,15 32:20 33:12 11:22 31:20
15:2 offering 3:17 52:24,25 53:6 39:8 40:17 12:15 20:5,9
47:10 13:12 19:22,25 53:15,17,20 41:4,8 45:6 25:14 44:4,4
office 9:8 overbroad 11:7 perceived 8:2 pornography
31:2 44:5 49:18 42:21 43:7,8 15:14 8:3,21 9:10,12
45:9 okay 30:25 overly 22:20 permitted 23:21 9:17 10:10,12
17:2 49:25 pandered 20:22 37:22 39:9 19:24 21:18,21
52:15 ones 38:11 29:7 36:10,12 Petitioner 1:4 30:24 34:2
50:15 15:4,11 17:21 proceed 25:3 prosecuted 32:6 36:9,10
52:3,4 20:3 22:9 produce 30:17 38:17 40:21 punishes 29:23
23:22 24:13,15 40:16 46:10 48:21 punishing 36:6
8:20 presentment profit 55:1 prosecutions 34:19
28:16 14:18 15:23 prohibited 32:24 33:8 38:11,25 43:5
17:10,15,18,19 12:11 29:16 34:3,5 50:9 43:21 44:9,10
35:9 41:19 54:18 prohibition 7:4 29:11 30:24 puts 49:25
7:5 10:10 presumably 11:1 19:12 32:2 36:3 Q
11:2 11:14 20:21 23:14 40:19 44:19,21 qualifications
pretend 33:21 25:4,24 28:13 44:25 49:21,22 46:1
12:2 pretending 20:6 51:12 49:24 50:13,23 qualify 10:16
24:22,24 pretty 18:13 promote 5:21 50:24 12:7
31:18 19:3 17:13 22:16 protecting 33:9 qualifying 12:10
prevent 10:22 33:22 37:3,9 34:1,1 quantity 49:11
prevents 3:16 14:15 23:8 33:1 36:14 47:9
29:9 15:18 promoting 19:6 protects 33:6 39:6 40:19
prisons 23:1 promotion 4:11 provided 43:11 46:5,20 48:10
11:10,14,23 proper 7:9 32:5 29:7,10 41:17
12:10 14:2,25 20:8 proportionality provisions 10:4 R 3:1
17:11 30:25 31:3,14 proposed 43:1 proximity 51:20 raises 39:5
37:1,5 31:15 37:14 proposes 3:12 51:21 rape 5:25
46:15 39:20,21 40:25 proposing 3:10 prudent 39:12 raping 6:7
52:1 41:18,25 42:2 proposition 8:9 public 23:5,19 rate 49:9,12
45:2 46:19 proscribed 36:2 puffery 35:18 rationale 47:7
40:14 proscription 35:12 reach 15:17
13:10 33:10 51:7 prosecute 20:1 punished 33:24 reaction 12:23
12:6,25 regulates 30:5 responses 12:1 25:22 30:4 separate 41:17
26:23 reject 52:23 responsive 38:21,22 40:12 41:22
45:18 Rejection 52:18 40:10 43:21 46:20 serial 47:16
45:1 restrictive 15:22 says 9:14 14:7 serious 39:20
18:6,14 relative 53:6,21 review 4:2,25 25:19 28:17 seven 27:4
19:4 54:3,15 5:1,5 38:9,12 42:6 sex 26:17 35:11
relevant 10:6 reviewer 4:1,20 49:14 35:25 37:9
25:23 relied 53:12 25:17 26:3,10 Scalia 12:12,14 sexual 8:1 25:19
47:3 religion 37:25 reviewing 25:18 24:19 25:1 26:3 28:14
religious 37:24 rewrite 42:24 27:4,7,10 31:7 37:9,11
relying 40:15,16 re-release 25:18 33:25 34:7,11 sexually 31:5
18:23 28:3 rid 53:15 school 18:4 37:19 40:14
31:12,13 remaining 52:9 right 8:22 9:15 22:12 26:22 53:5
35:12,13 remember 10:25 15:7 schoolmates showing 13:5,20
46:5 18:10 20:12 22:3 15:11 18:4 20:3,4
20:16 reply 14:12 16:9 ROBERTS 3:3 school-boy shows 8:2,11
26:11 report 32:19 3:24 14:10 13:19 25:23
representation 17:7 18:16 scienter 20:13 shrink 42:22
request 50:12 34:25 35:14 24:11 simpler 39:12
46:2,12 required 9:4 40:9 44:20 scientific 24:15 simply 13:5
requirement 52:7 55:3 screen 5:11 14:16 19:20
requirements second 12:5 38:22 47:11
52:10 requires 8:16 sadistic 23:5 36:13 41:11 28:18
28:3,24 50:9,9 seen 30:11 45:8 site 16:23 54:23
41:4 43:14 salesman 34:23 sell 13:2 16:21 8:18 10:9 11:4
1:19 2:6 29:4 satisfying 24:11 send 6:15 43:22
5:16,17,18 43:3,7,8 45:6 13:21 tape 34:18
20:20 21:1 49:25 50:3,5 suggest 14:21 20:15
19:18,25 39:7 40:2,6,18 51:24 52:21 suggested 40:24 teen 35:11,25
23:17 42:1,22 48:2 53:13,22 54:18 suggesting 3:18 tell 8:12 33:25
49:16 54:8 54:25 25:7 36:25 41:11
51:16,19 stamping 19:4 statutes 12:6 suggestion 49:7
19:7,23 started 26:13 53:4,7 5:8 12:22 29:8,9
48:14,22 starting 7:4 statutory 41:22 27:19 38:8 terms 4:12,14
51:12 state 33:19 47:11 39:11 41:15,17 6:1 11:11 14:3
38:12 statement 5:5 Stevens 5:22 6:6 supposed 53:18 terrible 22:24
45:18 8:2,4,5 25:15 6:10,17,20,25 Supposing 5:22 test 8:23 35:21
47:5,15 25:21,23 26:2 7:12 19:9,11 Supreme 1:1,12 Thank 28:25
statute 3:14,19 strange 53:11 suspect 15:13 theory 7:16
8:19 10:9 3:23 4:6,8,11 strike 11:6 18:24 thing 9:4,16
14:5,6 4:20 6:1,3,14 striking 3:23 sweep 45:1 53:7 12:5 14:11
17:22 6:16,23 7:14 strong 52:15 53:21 17:11,12 19:1
33:5 7:23 8:8,15 9:3 student 27:23 systematically 20:16,17 25:23
44:3 9:6,18 10:4,7 stuff 13:20 14:8 16:22 34:2 35:1 46:7
52:2 10:12 11:10,12 20:10,11 47:3 50:2
12:19,22,25 subjective 8:17 T 2:1,1 things 10:15
25:7 15:21,24 16:3 35:20 12:21 13:9 32:19 35:5
35:18 16:13,25 19:15 subjectively 14:9 15:7,10 38:16 41:5
24:4,6,12 25:9 submitted 55:4 46:15 think 4:8,9,10
10:2,20 26:19,20 28:17 subsection 10:6 40:2 5:15,19 7:9,15
28:20,22 29:18 substantial talk 15:1 7:22 8:7,21,23
26:7,21 29:23 30:8,18 40:18 42:14,17 talking 8:23 9:3 10:3,5 11:3
27:14,18 32:6,8,10,20 45:1 47:2,18 17:20 18:10 11:23 12:1,9
42:2,20 33:24 34:10 47:20 48:8 26:16 30:9 12:18 13:8,18
48:5 35:14 36:6,18 53:5,21 32:13,14 35:19 13:19,24 14:1
17:4 Traffic 22:1 8:14 26:1 28:1 versus 53:24
18:8 28:5,10 38:4 28:11 46:22 video 22:12,14
21:4 43:12 46:8 53:12 22:14 31:4
22:7 trailer 35:10 understanding videotape 34:14
25:2 transaction 3:10 11:19 17:7 videotapes 23:2
3:13 understood view 15:2237:25 40:7,12
28:1 treat 40:12 14:13,20 38:18 19:14 31:1
41:7
trial 6:12 40:19 46:3 38:21 47:15
44:15
tried 5:15 undoubtedly viewers 47:13
32:2 true 18:12 25:21 44:3 views 41:9
35:6,7,22 36:10 unduly 54:19 violate 6:16
44:18
36:5,23 trust 53:11 unfettered violated 9:18
37:11 truth 19:2 36:25 29:17 violates 32:8
39:25 truthful 3:20 unfortunately 51:14 whatsoever
43:9,25 5:20 8:4 25:14 19:5 45:13 violating 34:14
46:7 25:23 26:2 unique 11:2 Virginia 53:22
48:13 truthfully 22:5 United 1:1,3,12 virtual 20:7
50:6,7 try 4:18 12:1 3:4 visual 24:13
45:20
53:2 23:11,24 universe 19:9 46:15 51:23
trying 13:2,3 42:21 W 54:18
20:14 31:19 unlawful 3:10 wait 40:20 words 14:15,21
41:5 turn 5:15 18:11 want 14:7 15:23 34:17 37:3
17:13 TV 45:9 unsolicited 18:3 38:22 51:15,21
29:23 two 10:4 12:1 unusual 5:8 wanted 6:15 work 22:19
32:23 22:18 26:8 upholding 7:19 14:2 16:7 works 52:1
39:9 30:5 35:4 38:6 urging 53:15 22:16 world 18:6,14
45:21 38:25 48:7 use 27:4,7,8,14 wants 4:18 9:7 18:21,24 19:4
51:23 type 18:18 30:2 27:15 34:18 41:11 35:7 42:21
50:9 types 38:6 48:11 6:25 worry 4:21 22:5
U v 1:5 3:4 1:16 wouldn't 4:5 6:2
45:8,8 19:16 52:22 29:10 35:18 way 4:3 6:9 7:9 28:8,9 40:11
53:5 vagueness 28:21 8:16 9:5,24 42:6,13,16
21:20,23 23:15 verb 51:8 47:6,7 53:18 43:7
understand 6:13 verbs 37:7 ways 12:7 25:8 32:16 38:23
27:4
28:7
48:10,11 5 33:12 34:5
49:25 48:17 50:1
45:11 52 2:9
50:1 6
9
49:13
1:5 3:4
1:13 3:2
54:2
55:5
7:25 8:11,11
26:21 27:19
28:7,11
48:10,15
19:10
48:11
49:8
10:17
33:12 48:17
29:9
49:8
1:9
2:6
2:4
