IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE :
CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT OF :
THE CITY OF NEW YORK, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-637
TOM F., ON BEHALF OF :
GILBERT F., A MINOR CHILD.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, October 1, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:55 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
LEONARD J. KOERNER, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
PAUL G. GARDEPHE, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of
Respondent.
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
LEONARD J. KOERNER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL G. GARDEPHE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 25
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting Respondents 43
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
LEONARD J. KOERNER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:55 a.m.)
We'll hear argument next in Case 06-637,
Board of Education of the City School District of the
City of New York versus Tom F.
Mr. Koerner.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LEONARD KOERNER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KOERNER: Mr. Chief Justice, and members
of the Court. In 1985 when this Court decided the
Burlington decision, it based -- it based it based on
the broad remedial clause set forth in 20 U.S.C. 1415,
which allowed an impartial hearing officer, a state
review officer, or the court, itself, to grant relief
where appropriate.
In so doing, it noted that there was no
other substantive section which touched and concerned
the issue before the Court, and that is whether an
individual can voluntarily remove a child and seek
tuition reimbursement before the conclusion of the
administrative and court remedies.
It made a point of noting that it felt it
was gleaning the congressional intent; and, had Congress
known that the administrative and court process would be
protracted, it would have provided a process which would
allow the child to be removed.
Similarly, in the sequel, the Carter case,
the Court made the other -- the same conclusion. It
noted that, although the primary responsibilities to
educate the child in a public school, least restrictive
environment, there would be occasions when you would
place that child outside, having been in the school
system.
1412, which was the eligibility section
during this period, was very truncated. It did not
provide a lot of conversation concerning the
relationship of public and private schools within the
IDEA. It provided that you had to provide the child who
demanded it a FAPE, a free appropriate education. If
you couldn't do that, the public school had to then pay
for the tuition. It was silent though on the
relationship between the private schools where the child
voluntary removes.
In 1997 the IDEA was codified, and for the
first time the specific section was inserted dealing
with the relationship of children and private schools.
Indeed, 20 U.S.C. 1412(a)(10) -- just the beginning,
just that paragraph, says "children placed in private
schools" and the structure was detailed. Subdivision
(A) dealt with the relationshiop of the private schools
with the public system generally and noted that, in that
particular case, while the children would be entitled to
some small amount of Federal funding, they would not be
entitled in private school to a free appropriate public
education.
We also noted that if a parent was
dissatisfied with the service plan, they'd have to seek
relief administratively. They would not be entitled to
an impartial due process or a court review. It was a
recognition that children who are placed in private
school were entitled to much lesser services than
children placed in public school.
Subdivision (B) dealt with the situation
when children were not placed in public school but the
local district consented that they could not provide a
free appropriate public education. As a consequence, in
those cases and in only those cases, since the public
would then be supervising and directing the private
school, they would be responsible for the tuition.
Sub (C) is the issue now before this Court.
Sub (C) is entitled Children Placed in Private School,
Payment and Where the Local Education Aagency Did Not
Consent. And that particular section is broken down
again into three parts. The first part says, if a child
is offered FAPE, that is, a child is given a program
which is adequate, you cannot get reimbursement if you
remove your child during any time but in this case
during the pendency of the administrative and the court
process.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, do you
agree that if we conclude the language is ambiguous, we
should defer to the Secretary's interpretation in the
comments accompanying the regulations?
MR. KOERNER: The answer is no because the
Secretary's interpretation on the note in common and the
letter submitted to the educational consultant is
inconsistent with its own Federal regulation. Its
Federal reguation, titled Children Placed in Private
Schools When FAPE Is at Issue, also requires that you
previously receive --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It just mirrors the
statute --
MR. KOERNER: That's exactly -- it does.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then --
MR. KOERNER: But the note --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Assuming we would
think the statutory language is ambiguous, we are likely
to think the same language in the regulation is
ambiguous.
MR. KOERNER: Well, Chief Justice, if it's
ambiguous and we ought to at least discuss the nature of
the ambiguity, then that ambiguity under the spending
clause should redound to the benefit of the local
education district as well, for if it does not set forth
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, which -- which
prevails, Chevron deference or spending clause
presumption?
MR. KOERNER: Well, the Chevron deference
requires notes and comments which are persuasive and
analyzed. There is absolutely no analysis in the note
and comment in this case. All it says conclusively is
that the decisions of this Court in Burlington and
Carter create an independent obligation separate and
distinct from the statute. It doesn't explain why the
specific language of the statute should not be
incorporated in the Burlington court. And --
JUSTICE ALITO: If Gilbert F. had attended
the public school for 11 days, would this case come out
differently, in your view?
MR. KOERNER: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE ALITO: If the student here had
attended the public school for let's say 11 days before
being transferred to the public -- to the private
school, would your, would your arguments still fly?
MR. KOERNER: No. If the -- if the child
attends a public school and receives special education
and related services --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You've added something to
the question, though, didn't you?
MR. KOERNER: No, I don't think so.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Attending public school and
receiving --
MR. KOERNER: I -- I thought, I'm sorry --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that was my
assumption. Let's say he attends public school in a
special education class for 11 days. His parents think
the public -- the placement that's proposed, the IEP
that's proposed by the school is inadequate, and they
turn out to be correct, and they want to send their
child to the private school, but they understand this
argument based on the statutory language, so they say
all right, we are going to put him in the public school
special education class for 11 days, so -- we've already
got the placement in the private school all lined up at
the end of the 11 days. He goes one day, we give
notice; we take him out and we put him in the private
school; then they are entitled to reimbursement subject
under your argument.
MR. KOERNER: That -- that would satisfy the
statutory definition, but when it went before the
impartial officer, or the State review officer, there
would be a very compelling argument that there was a
lack of cooperation, because it's not just that you're
in the system, but that you articulate the problems that
you have with the public placement.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it depends on
the particular circumstances. I mean, if the parent is
able to show look, the school district is being very
unreasonable here; it's clear he is going to need more
than the services they were going to offer, well that
wouldn't have --
MR. KOERNER. Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- run afoul of any
of the other provisions.
MR. KOERNER: My only comment, Chief
Justice, was that yes, that would satisfy the statutory
section as long as the notice was given in triple I, but
we would then have an argument in the individual case
that the parent was not cooperating. So for the purpose
of this case, where they come into the system even for a
minimum period and give the appropriate notice under
triple I, yes, that would -- it would be satisfied.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why would Congress
ever have wanted to adopt a scheme like that? What
possible purpose is served by simply requiring the
student to be in a placement that is by definition not
providing a -- not providing FAPE for this very short
period of time? It makes no sense whatsoever.
MR. KOERNER: The reason Congress wanted to
provide it is the reason that this Court discussed in
Burlington. The upset of this Court in Burlington was
that it was an extremely protracted process. The child
there was subject to a very long impartial hearing and
State review and court review --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So that enabled the
parent to remove the child immediately and risk that --
MR. KOERNER: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- the public education
would be found inadequate.
MR. KOERNER: But the reason --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But all that section does
is to repeat the Burlington scenario. It says, it
codifies what the Court held. The Court didn't say
anything in Burlington about the situation where the
child was never in public education.
MR. KOERNER: That's correct, but it's a
statute of limitations. It says that you must receive
special education and related services. There is no --
there is no exception to the condition -- if you look at
the particular statute when they refer to "may," they
are only talking about the relief that a court or
impartial hearing officer or State review officer can
grant. They are not talking about the predicate, you
must be in the system.
Now you asked, Justice Alito, why do they
have to be in the system, and the reason is Congress
thought that if you're in the system and you have a
vested interest in the system, that because of all the
processes that are there, including mediation, including
a modified IEP, that it would increase the numbers of
people in terms of cooperation who want to participate
in the system.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought it wasn't that.
I thought it was simply Congress figured that there are
probably a lot of people in New York City, in Manhattan
in particular, who are going to send their kids to
private school, no matter what, and they can get special
services in private school, but what the heck, if we can
get $30,000 from the city to pay for it, that's fine.
In other words, this was meant to be an
option for people who wanted to go to the public schools
but couldn't go to the public schools because they
couldn't get the private services there, but it was
never meant to be an option for people who had no desire
to go to public schools at all anyway, and --
MR. KOERNER: I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and without this
condition, somebody, I think the plaintiff here was
never in the public school, was he?
MR. KOERNER: That's correct. He never had
any contact with the public school at all except to
request a free appropriate public education.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are there not children --
I think there was a brief on behalf of the Autism
Society that says many school systems simply do not have
the facilities to attend to the needs of these children?
MR. KOERNER: Yes, but you don't know that
until you've actually been subjected to the process
itself. Indeed in Schaffer, you, this Court said that
you had to presume that the officials in the department
of education of a local school district are going to do
their job. Their job is to try to find an appropriate
IEP. If it turns out that it's insufficient, of course
you can then litigate.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are there not cases where
school districts have said from day one, look, we don't
have facilities to handle this type of disability?
MR. KOERNER: But if we don't -- if the
public schools district does not have the facilities,
then it will consent to a private placement to deal with
the particular problem it cannot deal with. We are only
talking about cases where the school system believes it
can deal with an individual problem and at the very
least if the person's child comes into the system, they
will have the opportunity to work with the parent and
try to work out a situation. In -- as this Court is
well aware, the primary obligation is to find a public
education for this child, and if from day one you assume
that the individual education plan is defective, not
only is it inconsistent with Schaffer, it's inconsistent
with the whole statutory scheme which is set up to try
to work cooperatively. Indeed --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But isn't it true that
the parent will never be reimbursed? Let's take the
parent that Justice Scalia has hypothesized, will never
get one penny of that tuition unless that parent carries
the burden -- the parent would have the burden of
showing that there was no appropriate public education?
MR. KOERNER: The parent in this case can
never get reimbursed because they don't meet the
predicate which is that their child had to previously --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not the question I
asked.
MR. KOERNER: Oh I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I said that the parent --
let's assume that the parent never sends the child to
public school, nonetheless seeks reimbursement. In
order to get reimbursement that parent would have to
show, would have bear the burden of showing that there
is no appropriate public education available; is that
not true?
MR. KOERNER: Yes. You mean assuming the
statute does not apply?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but that is -- but the
parent would not have to show that the parent would have
used that available public remedy --
MR. KOERNER: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- if it were there?
MR. KOERNER: And Congress could have
concluded that the parent you're referring to who placed
that child immediately in a private school, and who may
not have an interest in obtaining a public school
education for that child, may not be as cooperative and
as collaborative as someone who has a child in the
system, to work out an individual education plan because
of some of these --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then the conclusion would
be that that parent hasn't met the heavy burden of
showing that there is no appropriate public education.
MR. KOERNER: But the problem is, if you go
to an impartial hearing officer as in this case, and you
have a child that's been in a private school for a
number of years and is doing very well, and the private
school special ed teacher comes in and highlights all
the successes of the kid, and then the New York City
Department of Education comes in with is profit plan
which is based on speculation, because the child has
never been in the system, is it so unreasonable for
Congress to conclude as a matter of statutory, explicit
language that the child should go into the system so
that at least with respect to your burden there's at
least a participatory program where they try to help the
child get an individual education.
JUSTICE ALITO: If Congress's purpose really
was what you -- what you suggest and what I think
Justice Scalia's question suggests, that there was a
desire to make parents who really had no interest in the
public school system give the public schools a chance,
why is it that, even as you read the statute, there's no
requirement that the child remain in the public school
system for any significant period of time? It's just
pro forma.
MR. KOERNER: Indeed, Justice Alito.
Congress in this case got it completely right because
not only did they put in the explicit language, they
also put in a time period because they understood that
this Court had ruled in a number of cases that its upset
was with the protracted period that a family has to have
a child in the system. But by having a notice provision
and by thereby ensuring a parent that by giving notice
and specifically articulating the reason why the plan is
deficient and giving the school district an opportunity
to cure the problem, everybody would understand 10 days
later that they can leave. So the very problem that you
highlighted in Burlington and Carter is no longer a
problem under the explicit legislation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think they may --
they may well have to stay longer than 10 days to either
realize that the program is inadequate or to feel
comfortable that they'll be able to establish that on
the record. It's pretty hard to say something's not
working after only on 10 days.
MR. KOERNER: Chief Judge, you're absolutely
right. And that is why I say that would be based on an
individual determination. All the statute says is come
into the system. What happens after that, if you give
your notice as was raised in a hypothetical, that would
go to whether or not there was the duty to cooperate
which was fulfilled, which also is a requirement for
this particular section for reimbursement.
It's not just that you are in a program and
private school is providing appropriate service and then
you have an IEP that may not provide the free
appropriate public education, but you also have to show
you cooperated with the program because the whole
primary purpose of the program is to provide a public
education.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, to be fair, this
provision doesn't just apply to the rich person who
wants New York City to pay 30,000 of his tuition to a
private school. It also applies to somebody who is
already in public school, and the program offered by the
-- by the city is patently inadequate. You are
compelling the parent nonethe less to put the kid in a
program that anybody would see will -- will not meet the
needs.
MR. KOERNER: That is correct, but your --
first of all, Congress could weigh the balance between
that particular problem and the need to give the school
district an opportunity to try to provide a program, but
it does run contrary to this Court's discussion in
Schaffer which presumes that the school district is
going try to accommodate the child, try to provide the
needs of the child.
In effect, I think all of these questions
are based on the assumption that the plan is going to be
automatically deficient. I don't believe there's any
foundation this Court has indicated there's no
foundation. That's why it said in Schaffer that the
parent has the ultimate burden of persuasion because it
presumed that the plan -- if you accept that principle,
which has already been articulated and you accept the
fact that specialists on the Board of Education have --
are going to try to adjust to this kid's needs, then
having the kid in the system even for a short while is
something that Congress could determine. And indeed
that's what the language says.
Now, we recognize that there is an absurd
argument, but it was difficult for us to understand how
it would be absurd to require this when indeed it would
solve the problems of Burlington and Carter because it
makes sure that if a parent doesn't want to stay for a
protracted period, it doesn't have to stay and then they
can litigate later. As Judge Alito noted, it would be
as little as 10 days.
I mean some arguments -- some of the
arguments I should at least mention that the other side
has made: The chief -- in the Second Circuit, the
argument was that there was an ambiguity because the
word "only"0 wasn't used. So if I may use the example
that an individual may be eligible for welfare
recipients -- welfare benefits if that individual
previously received food stamps, the argument would be,
well, that's a little ambiguous because you didn't say
"only received food stamps." Of course, the condition
doesn't have to have "only" and it probably undermines a
lot of statutes that Congress has passed. The language
is very, very clear.
The second argument that is made both by the
Solicitor General and Respondent is that there's been an
-- implied repeals of this Court's decisions in
Burlington and Carter. But an implied repeal is when
you have two statutes that are specific and the latest
specific statute is inconsistent with the earlier
specific statute. These courts' decisions were based on
a general remedy provision and, more importantly, this
statute encompassed what this Court held because it
provided that you can remove your child once in the
system and the notice provision provides that you don't
have to be in the system very long.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is there any suggestion in
the reasoning in the Burlington case that it was limited
to a situation in which the student had been receiving
public school special education?
MR. KOERNER: No. But it was a holding
where the student was in fact receiving special
education. The next case, of course, would have been
one where the -- now, a more interesting question would
have been raised if you had (iii) and not (ii). If you
only had the notice provision where Congress
contemplates you have to be in the system to give
notice, and I came to this Court and I said, under
(iii), Congress has really contemplated you have to at
least be in the system for a short amount of time. You
didn't have (ii), which clarifies exactly what Congress
said, and this Court would have to then consider whether
or not (iii), by itself, would be -- would create enough
of an ambiguity in its (inaudible) decisions or whether
or not (iii) could be enforced without referring to (ii)
because why do you give notice?
Think about the result in this case. For
someone in the system, they have to give notice and an
opportunity to cure, and the IEP can be modified. If
you're not in the system and you never had any interest
in the system and you sought tuition reimbursement, you
would have less of a bureaucratic process. There would
be a preverse incentive to stay outside the system. You
wouldn't have to give notice. You would just have to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, I don't think
that's true, because the problem would be you would go
to the hearing to see if you were getting the adequate
education and you would have -- you would essentially
have to make a facial challenge rather than an
as-applied one, and the school would say, well, you
didn't give us a chance; we were going to do this and we
were going to do that. So it would be a heavier burden
to carry. The parents would have a heavier burden.
MR. KOERNER: But that would --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- if they did --
MR. KOERNER: But that would be an
individual determination, Chief Judge. What I'm saying
though, for everybody in the system, it doesn't depend
on an impartial hearing. You have to give notice
before you get to the next step. If you're outside the
system, you don't have to participate in any process
other than to seek at an impartial hearing the right to
get reimbursement. So that actually there's less
bureaucratic processes outside the system, and there's
and incentive (1) not to cooperate and (2) just to
marshal all your arguments in the impartial hearing and
hopefullyl you're going to prevail and get the payment
for the private education; whereas, if you're in the
system --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, my suggestion is
still that it would be easier to prevail at the
impartial hearing, if you can say, look, we tried, it
didn't work, as opposed to saying, we never even tried.
MR. KOERNER: Except for --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If I were the
impartial hearing examiner, I would think that that's a
harder burden for the parents to carry if they didn't
even try. The school's going to come in and say, here's
what we would have done if you'd given us a chance and
you didn't give us a chance.
MR. KOERNER: But there is a dynamic at
these hearings that, if you come in and that you're in a
private school and you show that your child is doing
well in the private school, and we come in with a
theoretical plan that has never been implemented, there
is going to be a dynamic with the impartial hearing
officer who will tilt towards keeping the child --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What is the basis for
saying that, when the one thing that the statute is very
clear on is that the starting premise of any
reimbursement claim is that an appropriate public
education is not available? That wouldn't concentrate,
testing that wouldn't concentrate on what the private
school is doing but what the public school could do.
MR. KOERNER: You're right, Justice
Ginsburg. I was only commenting on the dynamic. Of
course, we would try to show it, but we can't show it
based on -- any actual interaction with the child. We
can't show we observed the child in the school and tried
to make the following modifications.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you don't have the
burden; the parents do.
MR. KOERNER: Yes. That is the technical
relationship. That's right. I'm talking more about --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The parent would presumably
cover themselves, look it, he's getting X,Y -- X, Y, and
Z in the private school and you're going to give him Z;
Z is not going to be enough. And the burden on you
would be upon you to say, oh, we think Z is enough.
MR. KOERNER: That's correct. But, of
course, what we're saying has no actual practice.
But all this is separate and distinct from
the language of Congress. And unless that language is
observed, it does require that you have to previously
receive special education related services.
JUSTICE BREYER: What about an exception if,
in fact, the school district admits that they can't do
anything for this child?
MR. KOERNER: Well, then, Your Honor, that
comes under Section B of the same section, 20 U.S.C.
1412(a)(10)(B), where the school district does not
believe it can provide the service, then it will consent
to a private school and will give reimbursement because
that will be the equivalent of the free appropriate
public education. We are just talking about cases where
there has not yet been -- where the school believes they
can provide it. The parent and the child disagree.
Now, there are two other arguments that I
want to address. One, recognizing that the language
seems to support the petitioner's position. They argue
that, in fact, they did get special education and
related services because for the years 1997 and 1998 and
1998-1999, we settled with them and we did pay the
tuition. But Paragraph 17 of each of those agreements
specifically provided that the settlement was not to
create any admission for future applications.
And as this Court is aware, both under the
Federal Rules of Evidence in its decisions in Arizona v.
Colorado and the U.S. First International Building
Company, if you settle, it has no probative value. All
you do is settle the specific claim. You don't settle
the legal issue.
The second argument they make is, well, we
have got an IEP. An IEP is a proposal of how we would
service the child. And that IEP would constitute a
special education and related service. But an IEP which
the parent rejects could never be a special education
related system. You have to be in the system receiving
it.
And indeed, in Section 1414 of U.S.C., it
specifically provides if you reject the IEP, you've
waived any right to a free and appropriate public
education. So once you do that, it ends the discussion.
I have a few minutes and I'm going to
reserve that time for a possible reply.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Koerner.
Mr. Gardephe.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL G. GARDEPHE,
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT
MR. GARDEPHE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court.
When a child with a learning disability has
been denied a free and appropriate public education,
which is what happened here, IDEA authorizes an award of
private school tuition reimbursement, whether or not the
child previously receives special education related
services under the authority of a public agency. The
Board's argument that it can both deny space and remain
not liable for private school tuition reimbursement is
not compatible with the statute or with this Court's
jurisprudence. 1412(a)(10)(C)(ii) did not overrule
Burlington and did not impose the Hobson's choice in
that case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What did it do, then? What
meaning do you give to it?
MR. GARDEPHE: Your Honor, Congress was
focused on the public school context. And the language
in (C)(ii), which refers to previously received, is
intended as a setup for (C)(iii). When you get to
(C)(iii), you get the notice requirements. That's what
Congress had in mind. That's why the reference is
there.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that.
It makes it very clear it is, it is (ii) which
authorizes the enrollment in a private school and
payment for that. And it is prefaced with a condition:
If the parents of a child with a disability who
previously received special education and related
services under the authority of the public agency,
enroll the child in a private -- the implication is if
there were parent of a child who was not so enrolled,
this provision does not apply. So then you fall back on
the fact that the old provision covered in our cases
would have applied but that makes this meaningless.
I mean if you say that our prior cases
overrode that limitation, then what purpose does the
limitation serve?
MR. GARDEPHE: Your Honor, the first
question is whether that is intended to be exclusive.
And I don't think it was, because the "only if" language
is not there. And the "only if" language is actually
used in IDEA in multiple places. And Congress knew how
to say only if it intended, if it intended --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where else does it say that
the city will pay for the cost of a private education
except there? That's the only place it says it. And
part of the requirements for getting it is that the
child was receiving service at a public institution.
MR. GARDEPHE: Your Honor, Congress did not
intend that exclusive language. If it had, it would
have used the "only if" language.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then why didn't Congress
adequately give the equivalent of what you call the
"only if" language when it began (iii) by saying the
cost of reimbursement described in clause two? The
reimbursement described in clause two is described in
terms of the clause that Justice Scalia is zeroing in
on.
MR. GARDEPHE: Because, Your Honor, the
context is public school. That is the situation that
Congress was seeking to address, and that's why you
have --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm sorry. I'm just not
getting this. Can you rephrase that?
MR. GARDEPHE: Yes. If you look at
(C)(iii), Your Honor, it obviously repeatedly refers to
prior to the removal of a child from the public school.
So Congress was clearly focused on and it was intending
to give guidance to the courts in their equitable -- in
exercising their equitable powers. So in the context of
a child who was in public school, these are the types of
notice and cooperation things the court should take into
consideration.
The question, Your Honor, is whether they
intended this to be the exclusive vehicle by which
tuition reimbursement could be obtained? And the answer
to that, Your Honor, is no. And the reason why the
answer is no is because there is no "only if" language.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you read --
hypothesize two statutes: One, the statute before the
phrase "who previously received special education" was
added and the statute after? You read both of those
statutes the same way; right?
MR. GARDEPHE: No, Your Honor, I don't.
Because the question is, does that language serve any
purpose? And my answer to that, the language in
(C)(ii), "previously had received," yes, it serves the
purpose. The purpose is it gives factual context for
what comes in (C)(iii).
The other thing I would like to say --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't understand.
You read "who previously received special education
services," and you say that includes who previously did
not receive special education services.
MR. GARDEPHE: No. What I'm saying is that
that provides the context for what follows in (C)(iii).
The context it provides is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There would be no
reason for Congress to put that language in if the same
right to reimbursement existed if the child had not
previously received special education services.
MR. GARDEPHE: No, Your Honor. The point of
that language is to provide the backdrop for (C)(iii)
where Congress did intend to give guidance to courts in
the exercise of the equitable --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because your friend
reads that the exact opposite way and says, since
(C)(iii) only makes sense if the child is in the public
school, that that's a limitation on how you should read
(C)(ii).
MR. GARDEPHE: I understand that, Your
Honor. But the question is whether -- it really boils
down to if Congress intends to address the full --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In that case, isn't
it pertinent that the title to (C)(ii) says
"Reimbursement for Private School Placement"? It
doesn't say reimbursement for private school placement
when the child previously attended public school.
MR. GARDEPHE: But, Your Honor, (C)(ii) is
not exhaustive. Let me give an example.
I'm sure this Court would agree that the
requirement, the second requirement in Burlington that
the private placement has to be appropriate is the law
in this land. And (C)(ii) doesn't set forth that
requirement. (C)(ii) does not set forth that
requirement. And what that says to me is that (C)(ii)
was never intended by Congress to be exhaustive.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That just means that
(C)(ii) doesn't address the entire universe of issues
that might arise. But that doesn't mean that it doesn't
address exactly what its title says, "Reimbursement for
Private School Placement."
MR. GARDEPHE: Your Honor, I believe it's
probative on the issue of whether Congress intended
(C)(ii) to set forth the requirements for private school
tuition reimbursement and all the factual context in
which that could be rendered.
I do want to address one point, which is
that did Congress deal with this issue later? That is
to say, in terms of the notice factors that it set forth
in (C)(iii), which I have argued to you applied to
parents whose children have been in public school. The
answer to that question, Your Honor, is, yes, they did.
They addressed it in 1415(f)(1)(B), which require the
2004 amendments to IDEA.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is that set
forth?
MR. GARDEPHE: 1415(f)(1)(B) -- I'm sorry,
Your Honor, it's not in the appendix to the solicitor
general's brief. But at 1415(f)(1)(B), Your Honor, what
that provision requires is that parents, prior to a due
process hearing, must meet with the IEP team, they must
meet with the school district, they must lay out their
complaints about the IEP, and the statute provides give
the school district an opportunity to resolve the
complaint.
So Congress did not deal with the full
waterfront in the 1997 amendments. It returned to this
issue in 2004 and imposed those notice and cooperation
requirements that, as I've argued to you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Were those
provisions at issue when this dispute arose? They are
the 2004 amendments --
MR. GARDEPHE: These were 2004 amendments,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You haven't identified the
statutory provision that you think provides the
authority for the payment in this case.
MR. GARDEPHE: Your Honor, I believe it
begins with 1400(d)(1)(A) and 1412(A)(1); both of which
impose the requirement on school districts to make
available the free and appropriate public education for
the child. I believe it begins there. It then
continues to 1415 (i)(2)(C)(3), which is the provision
that grants courts to -- sorry, grants such relief as
the court determines is appropriate. There is no
evidence either in the 1997 amendments or in its
legislative history that there was an intent to appeal
or override that remedy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose it's how
broadly you read legislative history. I thought there
was a statement by Representative Castle that this would
limit the payments that school districts had to make.
MR. GARDEPHE: Yes, Your Honor, and I think
with respect to the children in the public school
system, if you read (C)(3) -- and again these are
permissive -- but if (C)(3) is applied, then I think
Representative Castle's comments make perfect sense
because they provide for certain notice obligations.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So when it comes to
reimbursement of tuition, the parents who never place
their child in the public school are in better shape
than the parent who place their child in public school
and then want to remove him.
MR. GARDEPHE: No, Your Honor. And the
reason for that is, there was case law preceding the
1997 amendments that imposed reasonableness
reasonableness and cooperation requirements on parents
even before the 1997 amendments came into effect. As I
did mention, after 2004 those requirements were now
statutory, but the reality is as a matter of case law,
it was already very clear in 1997 that if you didn't
give notice to the school district, if you didn't
cooperate in the formation of an IEP, you were not going
to get tuition reimbursement. And of course that flows
directly from, in particular, Carter's statement that
the reimbursement remedy is subject to equitable
considerations.
So it has always been the law that if a
parent does not cooperate, does not give notice, does
not cooperate in the formation of an IEP, that they will
not get -- or that the court has the discretion to deny
the tuition reimbursement remedy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But cooperation does
not require sending the child to the public school.
MR. GARDEPHE: No, Your Honor. I think it's
clear that Congress never intended, to quote Justice
Scalia, that parents would be required to place their
child in a patently inappropriate placement in order to
qualify for tuition reimbursement, and to address
Justice Alito's point, Your Honor, we don't know --
whether it's 10 days or 11 days or 1 day -- we don't
know. We can draw some guidance, I suppose, from the
ten- day requirement in (C)(3), but that's by no means
clear. The parents can give notice ten days before the
school day begins -- a school year began -- that they
find the placement inappropriate. So this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well in my case they
would note have received any benefits, under the terms
of the statute.
MR. GARDEPHE: But Your Honor, it highlights
that if they can place the child in for one day, this is
an utterly meaningless provision that Congress never
could have intended to require because it serves no
purpose. And that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's why your
friend says it serves the purpose of helping to make
clear that the public school is -- whether it is or is
not able to provide the appropriate public education. I
mean, why would Congress have put the phrase in there --
even if it was describing as you say the most common
situation -- why would it put the phrase in there if it
doesn't serve that purpose at least?
MR. GARDEPHE: Let me give an example that
highlights my point. I place my child in the
kindergarten in public school for one day. I then
satisfy the statute, previously have received special
education-related services. Five years later I can
still rely on that. Ten years later, I can still rely
on that. It's a talisman. It can't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What you're saying
is it's not a very significant hurdle, but it is going
to be a hurdle in some cases.
MR. GARDEPHE: It doesn't serve any useful
purpose, Your Honor, and if it doesn't serve any useful
purpose there is no reason to believe that Congress
intended it to have that effect.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The useful purpose
it serves is allow the school district to show what it
can do in ten days, as opposed to a mere theoretical
statement, it allows some actual concrete practice to
see if the plan that the public school has developed is
going to work or not going to work, that the impartial
hearing examiner can evaluate in a more concrete
setting.
MR. GARDEPHE: This Court has addressed that
balance in Burlington, and the answer was no, the
statute does not require that parents place their child
in an inappropriate place.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But then the whole
point is the statute was then amended after Burlington.
So to say what Burlington interpreted, it don't seem to
me to be very compelling on the question of what the
amended statute provided.
MR. GARDEPHE: But again, Your Honor, there
is no evidence in that amendment that it was intended to
be exclusive or intended to be exhaustive of the
circumstances and factual context.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure I agree -- Im
not sure I would agree with you that you could get
special services which --in third grade and then come
back 10 years later and get private school tuition. I
would really read this as saying if the parents of a
child who previously received special education under
the authority, enroll the child in a public elementary
school -- I think that there has to be a temporal
connection between the prior receipt and the enrollment.
I don't think you can go back 10 years.
MR. GARDEPHE: Let me go back --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't have to read it
that way, anyway.
MR. GARDEPHE: Let me address that, Your Honor.
What that would mean, then, I suppose, is that parents
would be required each year to put their child in a
public school for some period of time to qualify, and
then place their kid in private school if they didn't --
and then you're talking about a disruption --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Once you're in the private
school reimbursement you're in the private school
reimbursement, but you can't get into it 10 years later.
Anyway, that issue is not -- not before us today.
I don't understand you assertion that
somehow this would amount to repeal by implication. The
provision of 1415 -- what is it, (b), (b)(3) -- it seems
to me is just like a provision for, for a court's
exercise of its equitable powers. "Shall grant such
relief as the court determines is appropriate" -- if a
court had granted some equitable relief in one case, and
then there is a statute that's passed which renders that
equitable relief no longer appropriate, I wouldn't say
that that -- that that amounts to a repeal by
implication. It's just that what is appropriate depends
upon the remainder of the statue, and as it exists at
the time that the relief is sought.
MR. GARDEPHE: The point we are trying to
make, Your Honor, is that in light of Burlington, which
obviously Congress had knowledge of when it enacted the
1997 amendments, is it credible to believe that they
would have restricted, limited, overruled the holding of
Burlington, and never said a word about it?
JUSTICE BREYER: But they have (b). What
about (b)?
See look, there are two situations.
Situation (a) is that the school district thinks they
can give them a good education, adequate. Then he
should go and try it out, and if by the way the school
district just can't do it, then (b). So what's been
wrong with that scheme? Why doesn't that cover the
waterfront?
MR. GARDEPHE: There is no evidence that
Congress intended a tryout period.
JUSTICE BREYER: Just the language -- the
language.
MR. GARDEPHE: It's not just language.
JUSTICE BREYER: The language plus the fact
that nobody can think of a reason for putting that in
there, unless that's the --
MR. GARDEPHE: And it's the context that
flows from Burlington, where the Congress was aware that
this Court --
JUSTICE BREYER: But my question was what
about (b)? My question was not to argue with you. My
question was, why doesn't (b) take care of the examples
of absurd situations, law situations that you've
mentioned?
MR. GARDEPHE: I'm sorry, I'm not
understanding B, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: The case where the school
district just can't do it.
MR. GARDEPHE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: If they just can't do it
then their job is to put the kid in a district --
MR. GARDEPHE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- in a place that can do
it. And if their argument, which is your case, is it
they object to the facility, then have an argument about
that, about whether it should be this private school or
that private school. That's what it seems to me your
case is about, and that's why I think B.
MR. GARDEPHE: In a perfect world, Your
Honor, school districts who are confronted with a
situation would always make the decision to place the
child in private schools at public expense, but
unfortunately there are disagreements between school
districts and parents about what is appropriate, and
then sometimes school districts don't do what they are
supposed to do under the statute and in fact the city's
interpretation here would incentivize school districts
not to provide services because if they never provided
services they wouldn't be liable for the reimbursement.
Again, this can't be what Congress intended.
I did want to back up my assertion about the
only --
JUSTICE BREYER: (b), that's my question,
(b). I thought you were right. Until I heard that.
Then I suddenly hear no, that don't worry about it,
judge, is what I heard, because in the situation where
the school district has not provided there is another
section of the statute that takes care of the child.
That's what I want to hear your response to.
MR. GARDEPHE: Your Honor, that relies on
the good faith of the school district. (b) relies on,
(a)(10)(B) and B relies on the good faith of the school
district to make a determination that they can't provide
the services. That's not always going to happen. There
may be -- there may be a disagreement about whether they
can provide the services or not between the school
district and the parents.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have review
before the impartial hearing examiner about that alleged
bad faith, correct?
MR. GARDEPHE: Pardon me?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have reviewed
before the Hearing Examiner that alleged bad faith on
the part of the school district.
MR. GARDEPHE: Yes, Your Honor. Obviously,
the parents contend both that the plan was not
appropriate, and that it wasn't offered in good faith.
But I -- I did want to back up my assertion on the "only
if" language and -- and recite some statutory
references. Because I believe it stems very clearly
from the statute when you go through the provisions.
"Only if" or "only" are used in many, many
places 1415(f) (3)(E )(ii), 1414(a)(1)(C)ii,
1411(b)(1)(A ), 1401(19)(C), 1415(k)(4)(C) in the '98
version of the statute, 1413 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Bingo. You got me on that.
MR. GARDEPHE: The point is, Your Honor,
that Congress knew how to say "only if." They didn't do
that here, because they had no intention of creating an
exclusive remedy.
And this Court said in Winkelman that courts
should be cautious in reading into the statute an
implicit limitation, and this limitation goes to what
the Court also said in Winkelman is the primary mandate.
Finally, Your Honor --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And what was that
primary mandate?
MR. GARDEPHE: The primary mandate was to
provide or -- or make available a free and appropriate
public education to every child with learning
disabilities.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There is no issue of
mainstreaming in this case at all; right?
MR. GARDEPHE: There is not, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Neither of the
options are mainstream options?
MR. GARDEPHE: That's correct, Your Honor,
and that's at Second Circuit Appendix 168.
The school district here said tnat the
child's disabilities could not be addressed in a
mainstream setting, so there is no mainstream issue
here.
Finally, Your Honors, when Congress here
chose to carve out populations of children, it did that
in a very, very direct way. It did that in
1412(a)(1)(B) where it lays out very limited exceptions
for children who do not receive the guarantee with
respect to a free and appropriate public education.
The limitation is very, very clear. It's
very, very limited to certain age groups where it would
be inconsistent with state law, or there is an
incarcerated child. But there is no other place that
Congress carved out populations of children other than
in 1412(a)((1)((B), and there is no reason to believe
that Congress intended in a backdoor fashion to carve
out the populations of children, some of which were
mentioned in the argument of my adversary.
Congress was aware --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You know, it -- I'm
sorry.
MR. GARDEPHE: Your Honor, my time is up.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is mine. Thank
you, Mr. Gardephe.
MR. GARDEPHE: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Garre.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE
SUPPORTING RESPONDENT
MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Petitioner takes the position that a school
district may both refuse to provide a child with a
disability with an appropriate public placement and
refuse to pay for an appropriate private placement.
This Court has twice before considered and
twice before unanimously rejected --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, he hasn't -- he hasn't
said that.
MR. GARRE: I think he does in the sense,
Your Honor, Justice Scalia, that the -- the school
district can take the position, even if the IET that is
proposed is inadequate and it's adjudicated to be
inadequate, because the Schaffer presumption that was
brought up earlier does not apply in this case. Because
we are talking about situations where a parent can prove
that the placement was inadequate. In that situation
the parent cannot qualify for reimbursement unless it
subjects his child to the inappropriate placement.
This Court rejected that rationale in clear
and unambiguous terms in the Burlington case. Justice
Rehnquist put it in that case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Under a different statute.
MR. GARRE: Under a different statute but
interpreting the fundamental requirement of the statute
that all children with disabilities are entitled to a
free and appropriate public education. But that
requirement didn't change, and this is what Justice
Rehnquist --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are interpreting some
very general language: "Shall grant such relief as the
court determines is appropriate."
MR. GARRE: The -- the part of the
Burlington case I'm referring to Justice Scalia is the
interpretation of the fundamental requirement of
providing free and appropriate public education. And
what Justice Rehnquist said there -- and the unanimous
Court agreed -- is forcing a parent to choose between
subjecting his child to inadequate public placement or
paying for private placement deprives the parent of his
right to a free and appropriate public education.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So does the
10-business-days notice requirement for people who are
in public schools also violate Burlington, because for
10 business days they are going to be subject to an
inappropriate education?
MR. GARRE: The way the 10-business-days
requirement works in practice is that all of the IEPs --
virtually all of them are proposed towards the end of
the school year; and, typically, the parent is submitted
the proposed IEP during the summer. And it's at that
point that they have to make a decision whether to
litigate that, put their child in a private school, or
put them into a public school.
So the 10 business days in practice is not
going to require the child to go into the inadequate
placement. That was true in the fact pattern --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So in a situation
where it's not in the summer, where they say, well,
let's see how it works, and then they go to the public
school, I would have thought your argument also would
say it's not -- they don't have to give notice of 10
business days because in Burlington you said you don't
-- you have to make available the tuition reimbursement.
They passed a statute imposing a limitation on that, 10
business days.
MR. GARRE: And we don't -- we don't dispute
that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't dispute
that limitation. You dispute the other one, though,
which says they have to have previously received
special-education services.
MR. GARRE: In order -- in order to qualify
for reimbursment in that provision which is -- which is
followed by the provision describing in more concrete
detail the circumstances that courts ought to take into
account in determining whether reimbursement is
appropriate.
And if I can explain the way we read Section
1412(a)(10)((C), the first part of that subsection is
Subsection (C)(i). That hasn't come up during the
argument today. It is barely mentioned in Petitioner's
brief. That subsection -- it is on page 5a in the
appendix to the Gray brief, lays down the general rule
-- the rule that tells school districts when they don't
have to worry about paying reimbursement. And that is
when they provide a free, a public -- an appropriate
public education in the first place.
That -- that is consistent with Burlington
and Carter, and that lays down the general rule. School
districts that provide an appropriate placement don't
have to worry about reimbursement.
Subsection (C)(ii) then goes on to identify
a particular fact pattern which also happens to be the
most common situation in which reimbursement claims are
presented to the courts. And Congress in that
situation, along with Subsections (3) and (4), provided
the courts with more concrete guidance in determining
how to exercise their discretion in that situation.
The legislative history supports that
interpretation. On pages 25 to 29 of the National
Disability Rights Network brief they explain how
Congress in the legislative history indicates that they
were focused on case law applying this Court's decision
in Burlington and Carter where the students were already
enrolled in public school.
There is no indication whatsoever at all in
the legislative record that anybody had in mind scaling
back the fundamental mandate of the statute for school
districts to provide a free and appropriate public
education for every child.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Anywhere? I thought
Representative Castle said that this would result on
easing the burden on the school districts to pay
tuitions.
MR. GARRE: And it would, Your Honor,
insofar as we are dealing with flushing out the
requirements for students enrolled in public school.
But there is no indication that Congress meant to scale
back this Court's interpretation of the act's
fundamental mandate to provide a free and appropriate
public education.
Petitioner's give-it-a-try rationale just
doesn't fit to advance its argument before this Court.
It doesn't fit to the extent that Petitioner is
suggesting that you have to give public school a try,
because it's clear that the -- their interpretation
would apply to students in public school, as well as
private school. It would apply to all students entering
the special education system, including the student
who's been enrolled in public school from kindergarten
to 11th grade.
If he hasn't previously received
special-education or related services, then, under
Petitioner's view, if he's offered a grossly inadequate
plan, he has to be subjected to that plan in order for
his parents to qualify. And Petitioner's interpretation
doesn't require the parents to give the proposed
placement at issue a try. All it requires is that they
show that they received previous special-education
services at some point in the past.
And that's the way it worked in Burlington;
that's the way it worked in Carter; and that's the way
it works in most of the cases. Students are already in
the special education system, and they are proposed an
IET at some point typically during the summer. And the
parents at that time say this IET is inadequate for my
child, and I want to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's no problem. I
mean both sides agree that you can move to a private
school if that's so; right?
MR. GARRE: If you have previously received
special- education services. But my point, Justice
Scalia, is under Petitioner's -- the way they read the
statute, you don't have to give the proposed placement
at issue a try. So to the extent that this Court
thinks, or Petitioner is arguing, that Congress wanted
to make sure that we could better evaluate whether or
not this proposed placement proposed placement is going
to work for this child. That doesn't fit with the
statutory language because in practice the students --
all they have to show is that they received services at
some point in the past and if they have they can go into
private school and seek reimbursement. It doesn't
require a student to be subjected to the inadequate plan
unless you happen to be the student who is enrolled in
public school or enrolled in private school and you're
entering the special education system. At that point
then, Petitioner's interpretation requires the parents
to enroll their child who has already been determined to
have a learning disability in a plan that is inadequate,
and we think that is an untenable result.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the whole point
is you don't necessarily know it's inadequate until
later in time. Right? The school board thinks it is
adequate.
MR. GARRE: That's true, Your Honor. But
two points about that -- first, parents who do enroll
their children in private school at their own financial
risk. And as Justice Scalia pointed out in his
concurring and dissenting opinion in Winkelman, there
are particular incentives against bringing frivolous
reimbursement claims in this context.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except those -- there are a
lot of parents who are going to send their parents to
private school, no matter what. They are well-heeled
and this is just an opportunity to have New York City
pay $30,000 of it.
MR. GARRE: And Justice Scalia -- two points
on that, first the statute provides in clear and
unambiguous terms that all children with disabilities
are entitled to a free and appropriate education. The
child find requirement, which Section 1412 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even the child who would
turn down the adequate education provided by the public
schools. I don't think that was the intent of the
statute.
MR. GARRE: And I agree with you on that,
Justice Scalia, and that's why the way that school
districts can avoid reimbursement is to offer an
adequate placement in the first place. That's what
Section 1412(a)(10)(C)(i) provides. It lays down the
general rule. School district today talks about we need
to have collaboration, we need to have cooperation
during the IEP process. They hold all the cards during
that process. And if they want to avoid reimbursement
they should do what this Court said in the Carter case,
that's provide the student with a free, appropriate
public education.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If they don't have an
adequate placement, they should not have to pay the
freight for people who would not be coming to public
school any way. That's what this provision prevents.
MR. GARRE: I disagree with that, Your
Honor. I think that's inconsistent with the statutory
mandate to provide a free and appropriate education for
all children with disabilities. I would say though, and
I want to be clear on this -- even though appearance of
students in private school or in public school who
haven't previously received special education or related
services qualify for reimbursement under our
interpretation of the statute. It doesn't mean that
they are entitled to reimbursement. In the situations
Your Honor may have in mind, where the parents genuinely
aren't complying in good faith or genuinely aren't
interested in sending their kids to public school, they
only want to try to gain the system -- in those
hypothetical situations, courts have equitable
discretion to deny reimbursement claims, and they have
denied those reimbursement claims.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Garre. Mr. Koerner, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LEONARD J. KOERNER
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. KOERNER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
First, this particular provision, as the Chief Justice
noted, is called payment for private school placements
where they don't have the consent of the local
education. Any reasonable reading of that is that it's
all encompassing. And any person who has to apply has
to satisfy those provisions. Second, this statute did
not overrule Burlington or Carter. In those cases the
children were already receiving special services. Now
it could be in a future case someone would speak to
extend those cases, but Congress has now spoken to make
sure that Burlington and Carter go no further than you
have previously held. Third, there is an assumption
that the program is going to be defective from day one.
But that's contrary to this Court's decision in Schaffer
which presumes the good faith of the individuals who
propose in program. And that is the heart of the entire
case. Fourth, let's assume, for example, that someone
can create an ambiguity in this case. Citing the
Arlington case, in which you placed yourself in the
position of the local education officer, when you look
at this particular section -- and particularly C double
2 -- double i and triple i. Would you, in that
position, understand that it doesn't really mean what it
says, that previously received special education
services was only meant to cover the people already in
the system and was not intended to cover people outside
the system. That isn't what it says. More importantly,
the ambiguity is clearly not obvious. So how would a
local officer who has to understand whether or not to
place the funds at risk know whether or not in complying
with this particular situation, it was explicit or
implicit?
JUSTICE ALITO: During the period between
Burlington and the enactment of this statute, would you
have any doubt about your potential obligation to
reimburse a parent -- during the period of Burlington
and the enactment of the statute, would the school board
have had doubt about its potential liability for
reimbursement, in a situation like this?
MR. KOERNER: I think so. I think, because
of Burlington and Carter, where the children were
already in the system, this would be the next step.
Would we have presented to you the fact that you
shouldn't expand it? Probably. Would I know what you
would conclude? No, but the statute eliminated that
entire discussion. It is clear. But again, there is a
very big spending clause -- as I mentioned in my earlier
presentation, if it's so ambiguous that you can read out
a specific provision, how can that ambiguity not go down
to the benefit of the city through it's local education
system?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought this statute
was also premised on Section 5 of the 14th Amendment, in
which case it wouldn't have spending clause notice
argument.
MR. KOERNER: No, the -- this is just a
grant provision, Your Honor. It's not premised on any
constitutional provision. It's a grant where funds are
provided to the local education district, and in return
they agree to comply with all the conditions set forth
in the IDEA. There are no constitutional limits. Thank
you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Koerner. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:55 a.m. the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
51:25 55:23 42:20 47:11 articulate 9:5 back 26:23
56:4 agreements 24:16 articulating 40:13 41:15
Alito 7:18,22 31:7 33:3 asked 11:6 backdoor 43:12
15:15,24 18:20 apply 14:9 17:10 assertion 37:18 bad 41:7,10
alleged 41:6,10 applying 48:6 14:2 54:5 barely 47:9
allowed 3:13 3:15 4:14 5:4 14:8 3:11 8:17 15:8
18:25 20:14 14:6,25 17:3,5 as-applied 21:5 basis 22:18
30:4,20 19:5 55:11 37:23 38:1,3 Attending 8:7 beginning 4:22
31:4 amended 36:12 40:6 41:14 attends 8:2,11 begins 32:11,14
37:8 36:15 42:11 43:5 authority 25:23 34:17
42:22 36:17 55:16 45:13,18 47:5 37:1 1:24 2:4,7,10
38:16 31:11,24 32:4 48:23 51:19 25:20 26:16 25:15 43:25
52:3 32:5,18 33:13 52:10,18 Autism 12:10 53:12
33:15 38:9 argue 24:10 automatically believe 18:3
2:10 43:25 argued 31:7 available 14:6 32:10,14 35:22
20:10 37:19 arguing 50:9 32:13 42:11 43:11
6:3 analyzed 7:11 3:7 8:17,24 9:3 award 25:20 benefit 7:3
28:17,19 29:2 19:4,10 24:23 24:17 39:5 benefits 19:3
55:18 B Bingo 41:23
39:1 cards 52:7 16:13,19 18:24 53:21 55:4 comfortable
care 39:9 40:20 20:25 21:10,12 child's 42:22 16:16
carries 13:17 21:25 22:5 choice 26:3 coming 52:14
47:10,11 Carter 4:2 7:14 29:7,14,22 chose 43:1 9:16
16:11 18:17 30:5,19 31:12 Circuit 18:24 commenting
15:12 case 3:3 4:2 5:2 50:25 53:8,13 51:14 55:13 compelling 9:3
21:7,8 6:2 7:12,19 53:14 56:1 city's 40:8 17:15 36:14
23:7,13 9:19,21 13:20 child 1:9 3:19 claim 22:21 complaint 31:22
15:2,25 19:23 4:1,5,7,13,17 24:21 complaints
21:19 30:5 32:9 8:16 10:8,12 51:10 53:6,7 completely
10:7,7 37:24 39:14,21 13:22 14:2,17 class 8:12,19 comply 55:23
16:11 39:25 42:15 14:19,20 15:3 clause 3:12 7:3,7 complying 53:2
19:13,23 44:17,23,24 15:8,11,14,21 27:21,22,23 54:18
30:13 45:11 48:6 16:5 17:24,25 55:10,17 concentrate
52:9 53:22 19:19 22:13,17 clear 9:10 19:9 22:22,23
39:5 54:5,6,7 55:17 23:3,4,23 24:7 22:20 26:15 concerned 3:17
45:11,21 56:2,3 24:25 25:18,22 33:18 34:8,16 concerning 4:11
47:16 cases 5:17,17 26:18,21,22 35:4 43:6 conclude 6:6
49:19 12:21 13:3 27:14 28:8,12 44:22 49:4 15:10 55:8
54:22 16:3 24:5 29:16,24 30:9 51:17 52:20 concluded 14:16
55:4 26:24 27:1 32:14 33:8,9 55:9 conclusion 3:20
53:20,23 35:11 36:9,25 41:17 54:16 conclusively
26:9,10 cautious 42:4 45:16 46:5,8 52:6 concurring 51:8
28:7 certain 33:5 48:13 49:25 collaborative condition 10:25
43:7 50:12,22 51:20 14:20 12:4 19:6
30:1,6 challenge 21:4 51:21 Colorado 24:19 26:17
chance 15:19 children 4:21,23 come 7:19 9:21 conditions 55:23
31:1,7 21:6 22:9,10 5:2,10,12,14 16:21 22:8,12 confronted 40:2
33:2,3 change 45:5 5:21 6:13 12:9 22:14 36:22 Congress 3:23
47:7,8 Chevron 7:7,9 12:12 31:8 47:8 9:24 10:5 11:7
14:15 36:19 39:4 50:8 52:9 defective 13:10 directly 33:22
17:19 51:10 courts 19:16 54:1 disabilities
19:8 continues 32:15 28:10 29:20 defer 6:7 42:13,22 45:3
contrary 17:22 32:16 42:3 deference 7:7,9 51:18 52:19
26:7,12 54:2 47:3,23,25 deficient 16:8 disability 12:23
conversation 53:5 18:3 25:18 26:18
29:15 4:11 court's 17:22 definition 9:1 44:6 48:4
30:4,18 cooperate 16:24 19:12 26:1 10:2 50:23
31:5,23 21:20 33:20 37:21 48:6,22 demanded 4:14 disagree 24:7
35:6 34:1,2 54:2 denied 25:19 52:16
38:8,22 cooperated 17:6 cover 23:11 53:7 disagreement
40:12 cooperating 38:19 54:13,14deny 25:24 34:3 41:2
42:25 9:20 covered 26:24 53:6 disagreements
cooperation 9:4 create 7:14 department 40:5
48:5,21 11:12 28:13 20:13 24:16 1:23 12:16 discretion 34:3
53:23 31:25 33:14 54:6 15:7 48:1 53:6
cooperative credible 38:9 depends 9:7 discussed 10:6
cooperatively curiae 1:24 2:11deprives 45:17 25:8 55:9
24:2 10:13,22 12:6 D 27:22,22 disruption
14:13 17:18 D 3:1 describing 35:7 37:13
cost 27:11,21 34:17,23 35:12 15:18 distinct 7:15
17:9 19:6 20:3 8:12,19,21 determination 5:15 7:4 9:9
court 1:1,15 18:21 34:13,13 40:25 17:21,23 23:22
10:19,19 11:2 31:5,23 32:17 37:23 40:25 41:4,11
24:17 25:17 decided 3:10 developed 36:3 32:12,24 40:2
32:17 34:3 40:3 46:4 48:6 45:1 47:18 48:12,16
29:4 44:3,8,22 45:9 19:12,16 20:14 direct 43:2 22:13,24
31:2 45:15 49:1 24:18 directing 5:18 double 54:9,10
effect 18:1 33:15 evaluate 36:5 26:24 39:1 31:6,13 55:23
23:1 eligibility 4:9 32:18 36:17 31:2 36:19 free 4:14 5:4,16
enactment examiner 22:6 fall 26:23 47:14 48:12,23
55:10 encompassed example 19:1 FAPE 4:14 5:25 freight 52:14
4:14 5:5,16 enroll 26:21 exceptions 43:3 felt 3:22 fundamental
7:4 8:2,12 37:1 50:22 exclusive 27:5 figured 11:15 45:2,12 48:11
10:14,21 51:5 27:16 28:16 Finally 42:7,25 48:23
12:8,17 enrolled 26:22 36:18 42:2 financial 51:6 funding 5:3
48:8,20 49:8 exercise 29:21 find 12:18 13:8 funds 54:18
50:18,19 37:22 48:1 34:18 51:20 55:21
17:5,8 enrollment exercising 28:11 fine 11:20 further 53:24
19:25 26:16 37:3 exhaustive first 4:20 5:24 future 24:16
21:3,23 ensuring 16:6 30:11,18 36:18 17:19 24:19 53:22
23:20 entering 49:6 existed 29:16 27:4 47:7,15
25:1,2 50:20 exists 38:4 51:5,17 52:3 G
entire 30:20 expand 55:7 53:14 G 1:20,22 2:6,9
27:11 54:4 55:9 expense 40:4 fit 49:1,2 50:12 3:1 25:14
29:8,10 entitled 5:2,4,8 explain 7:15 Five 35:14 43:24
32:13 5:11,21 8:23 47:6 48:4 flows 33:21 39:5 gain 53:4
36:25 45:3 51:19 explicit 15:10 flushing 48:19 Gardephe 1:20
42:12 52:25 16:1,12 54:19 fly 7:25 2:6 25:13,14
45:4,13 environment extend 53:23 focused 26:8 25:16 26:7
47:15 4:6 extent 49:2 50:8 28:9 48:6 27:4,15,25
49:7 equitable 28:10 extremely 10:8 followed 47:2 28:6,25 29:11
50:5,20 28:11 29:21 following 23:5 29:18 30:2,10
52:11 33:23 37:22,24 F follows 29:12 30:24 31:14
53:17 38:1 53:5 F 1:8,9 3:5 7:18 food 19:4,6 32:5,10,25
55:13 equivalent 24:4 facial 21:4 forcing 45:15 33:11 34:7,22
27:19 facilities 12:12 forma 15:23 35:10,20 36:7
2:3,6,9,13 facility 39:22 34:2 38:6,21,25
41:8 15:1,11 16:24 hear 3:3 40:17 hurdle 35:18,19 implicit 42:5
42:10 21:1 37:4,5 40:21 hypothesize 54:20
43:18 38:17 41:18 heard 40:16,18 28:21 implied 19:12
46:8,12 50:15 hearing 3:13 hypothesized 19:13
44:2 goes 8:21 42:5 21:2,14,17,21 hypothetical 19:17 54:15
45:1,10 47:20 22:2,6,16 16:23 53:5 impose 26:3
46:19,25 going 8:18 9:10 31:18 36:5 32:12
50:4 9:11 11:17 41:6,10 I imposed 31:25
12:17 17:24 hearings 22:12 IDEA 4:13,19 33:13
53:9 18:2,10 21:6,7 heart 54:4 25:20 27:8 imposing 46:17
45:8 23:12,13 25:9 heavy 14:24 identified 32:7 10:15 16:15
52:5 33:20 35:18 heck 11:19 identify 47:20 17:14 44:15,16
27:13 good 38:16 highlighted 31:18,20 33:20 34:10,18 36:10
40:23,24 41:14 16:11 34:2 46:3 52:7 44:21 45:23
12:9 49:9 history 32:19,22 49:24 43:9
13:14,23 grant 3:14 11:4 48:2,5 ii 20:5,11,15 incentive 20:23
22:18 37:22 45:8 Hobson's 26:3 26:9,15 29:3 21:20
55:15 55:20,21 hold 52:7 30:1,6,10,15 incentives 51:9
16:22 grants 32:16,16 38:10 31:1 41:20 includes 29:9
20:7,16 Gray 47:11 Honor 23:24 47:20 including 11:10
21:6 GREGORY 26:7 27:4,15 iii 20:5,9,13,15 11:10 49:7
22:10 1:22 2:9 43:24 27:25 28:7,15 26:10,11 27:20 inconsistent
24:3 grossly 49:12 28:18,25 29:18 28:7 29:5,12 6:12 13:11,11
27:19 groups 43:7 30:3,10,24 29:19,24 31:7 19:15 43:8
29:20 guarantee 43:4 31:9,15,16 Im 36:20 52:17
31:20 guidance 28:10 32:6,10,25 immediately incorporated
34:1,16 29:20 34:14 33:11 34:7,12 10:12 14:17 7:17
38:16 47:25 34:22 35:21 impartial 3:13 increase 11:11
49:3,15 36:16 37:8 5:9 9:2 10:9 independent
H 38:7 39:13 11:3 15:2 7:14
happen 41:1 41:24 42:7,16 22:2,6,16 36:4 indicates 48:5
happens 16:22 51:4 52:17 22:15 individual 3:19
J 1:18 2:3,13 55:15 56:1 45:8 50:13 longer 16:11,14
40:18 39:18 lays 43:3 47:11 lot 4:11 11:16
26:2 kid's 18:10 learning 25:18
28:16 6:5,16,19,21 35:12 49:8 leave 16:10 mainstream
34:8 6:25 7:6,18,22 knew 27:8 41:25 legal 24:22 42:18,23,23
35:23 8:4,7,10 9:7,14 know 12:13 legislation 16:12 mainstreaming
38:22 9:17,24 10:11 34:12,14 43:16 legislative 32:19 42:15
43:12 10:14,17 11:6 51:1 54:18 32:22 48:2,5 mandate 42:6,9
11:14 12:3,9 55:7 48:10 42:10 48:11,23
51:23 15:17,24 16:13 2:3,13 3:6,7,9 lesser 5:11 marshal 21:21
15:18 23:6,10,21 10:5,13,16,22 46:12 54:5 56:4
25:11,16 26:5 12:2,6,13,24 liability 55:1 mean 9:8 14:8
30:5,19 31:12 17:18 20:1 limit 32:24 52:24 54:11
40:9 34:5,8,12,19 22:11,25 23:8 29:25 42:5,5 meaningless
48:3,22 35:2,17,24 23:15,24 25:12 43:6 46:17,22 26:25 34:24
50:21 36:11,20 37:6 53:9,11,13 limitations means 30:19
37:14 38:12,23 55:3,19 56:2 10:23 34:15
39:20 40:15 L 38:10 43:3,7 48:21 54:13
42:14,17 43:16 land 30:15 lined 8:20 meet 13:21
24:22 44:10,13,23,25 6:23 7:16 8:17 18:20 46:5 members 3:9
31:5,25 45:5,7,11,14 15:11 16:1 little 18:21 19:5 mention 18:23
37:17 45:19 46:10,21 18:13 19:8 local 5:15,22 7:3 33:16
49:16 48:14 50:1,5 23:18,18 24:9 12:17 53:16 mentioned
50:25 51:7,11 26:8 27:6,7,16 54:8,17 55:13 39:11 43:14
53:8,13 29:1,2,15,19 long 9:18 10:9 mere 36:1
41:16
53:1 20:16,18,24 opposed 22:3 41:13 49:14,15 10:4 15:22
46:14 55:17 oral 1:14 2:2,5,8 41:11 45:10 person 17:10
16:3 order 14:4 34:10 11:12 21:16 persuasion 18:6
N.Y 1:18,20 ought 7:1 47:3 15:13 pertinent 30:6
obtaining 14:18 P 3:1 37:25 46:17 place 4:7 27:12
18:10 obviously 28:7 pages 48:3 34:10 35:11 36:9,10
12:5,6 offer 9:11 52:2 parent 5:6 9:8 25:14 54:18
offered 5:25 9:20 10:12 pay 4:15 11:20 placed 4:23 5:10
15:9 17:13 41:14 13:6,15,16,17 17:11 24:13 5:12,14,21
22:3,15 49:12 13:18,20 14:1 27:11 44:7 6:13 14:16
30:18 officer 3:13,14 14:2,4,11,11 48:16 51:15 54:7
34:8,24 9:2,2 11:3,3 14:16,24 16:6 52:13 placement 8:13
40:10 15:2 22:17 17:15 18:6,18 paying 45:17 8:20 9:6 10:2
11:16 15:6 officials 12:16 25:2 26:22 payment 5:22 30:23 34:10,18
51:14 oh 13:25 20:25 33:9 34:1 21:22 26:17 44:6,7,19,21
34:20 once 19:19 25:8 54:24 pendency 6:3 50:7,11,11
18:20 only"0 19:1 15:18 21:8 people 11:12,16 placements
opinion 51:8 22:7 23:7 11:22,25 45:20 53:15
16:5,6,23 17:21 20:19 34:16 36:9,24 40:1 plaintiff 12:4
15:7 presumption probably 11:16 provides 19:20 purpose 9:20
18:2,7 7:8 44:16 19:7 55:7 25:6 29:12,13 10:1 15:15
36:3 pretty 16:17 probative 24:20 31:20 32:8 17:7 27:2 29:2
49:13,13 prevail 21:22 30:25 51:17 52:4 29:4,4 35:1,3,9
22:1 problem 13:2,4 providing 10:3,3 35:21,22,24
prevents 52:15 16:12 17:20 provision 16:5 16:2 17:15
34:12 previously 6:15 18:17 31:17 32:8,15 44:24 46:5,6
36:12 13:22 19:4 process 3:24,25 34:24 37:20,21 putting 39:2
41:24 23:19 25:22 5:9 6:4 10:8 47:1,2 52:15
49:18,23 26:9,19 28:22 12:14 20:22 53:14 55:12,20 Q
29:3,8,9,17 21:16 31:18 55:21 qualify 34:11
52:22 53:25 profit 15:7 public 4:5,12,15 question 8:5
54:8 primary 4:4 15:13 16:15 5:17 7:19,23 20:4 27:5
13:8 17:7 42:6 17:2,6,7,13,16 7:24 8:2,7,11 28:15 29:1
principle 18:7 proposal 24:24 10:14,21 11:22 36:14 39:7,8,9
31:17 37:3 proposed 8:13 12:8,25 13:8 questions 18:1
4:21,23,25 5:4 46:1,3 49:15 14:12,18,25
45:25 6:13 7:24 8:16 50:11 17:5,7,13 R 3:1
50:13 8:20,22 11:18 protracted 3:25 19:25 22:21,24 raised 16:23
17:3,12 21:23 prove 44:18 27:14 28:1,8 48:25
26:21 27:11 24:2,7 29:19 34:6 35:4,5,12 33:2 36:24
31:1 36:23 40:10,25 41:3 40:4 42:12 55:11
39:23,24 40:4 47:14,18 48:12 45:13,16,18,21 53:17
46:5 49:6 50:2 provided 3:25 47:15 48:8,12 reality 33:17
54:11
16:7 6:23 25:24 49:16 50:21 36:11 41:5,9
29:15 regulations 6:8 remainder 38:4 requiring 10:1 42:8,14,17
35:22 Rehnquist 44:24 remaining 53:10 reserve 25:10 43:16,20,23
43:11 45:6,14 remedial 3:12 resolve 31:21 46:10,21 48:14
reimbursed remedy 14:12 33:1 43:5 56:1
reimbursement 33:23 34:4 1:21 19:11 52:5
53:11 20:21 21:18 remove 3:19 6:2 1:25 2:7,11 run 9:14 17:22
23:20 27:22 28:17 removed 4:1 4:4 S 2:1 3:1
43:4 29:16 30:7,8 removes 4:18 responsible 5:19 satisfied 9:23
28:22 33:7,21,23 renders 37:25 restrictive 4:5 35:13 53:19
34:4,11 37:15 repeal 19:13 result 20:17 saying 21:12
35:13 37:16 40:11 37:19 38:2 48:15 50:24 22:3,19 23:16
46:23 44:20 46:16 repeals 19:12 return 55:22 27:20 29:11
50:4 47:4,13,19,22 repeat 10:18 returned 31:24 35:17 36:24
52:22 50:16 51:10 repeatedly 28:7 review 3:14 5:9 says 4:23 5:24
52:2,8,23,25 rephrase 28:5 9:2 10:10,10 7:12 10:18,23
reimbursment Representative reviewed 41:9 18:13 27:12
20:2 reject 25:6 48:15 right 8:18 15:25 30:22 35:3
27:14 rejected 44:9,22 request 12:8 16:20 21:17 46:23 54:12,15
rejects 25:2 require 18:16 22:25 23:9 scale 48:21
relationshiop 37:10 Rights 48:4 27:23 34:9
relationship 15:21 16:25 54:18 41:23 44:10,13
45:11 38:5 45:8 26:11 27:13 28:20 29:7,14 scaling 48:10
44:16 6:14 11:22,23 26:20 29:9,10 small 5:3 10:10 11:3
12:1,25 15:19 29:17 35:14 Society 12:11 43:8
38:19 51:23 41:1,3 46:24 19:11 31:15 33:22 36:2
5:4,11 second 18:24 50:14 52:23 somebody 12:4 2:10 43:25
19:10 24:23 53:21 54:13 17:12 statue 38:4
8:2 30:13 42:20 set 3:12 7:4 something's statute 6:17 7:15
53:19 13:12 30:15,16 16:17 7:16 10:23
9:9 Secretary's 6:7 31:1,6,12 sorry 7:21 8:9 11:1 14:9
12:5 6:10 55:23 13:25 28:4 15:20 16:21
section 3:17 4:9 setting 36:6 31:14 32:16 19:15,16,18
14:3,17 4:20 5:23 9:18 42:23 39:12 43:17 22:19 26:1
15:3,5 10:17 17:1 settle 24:20,21 sought 20:21 28:21,23 31:20
16:8 23:25,25 25:5 24:21 38:5 34:21 35:13
40:20 47:6 settled 24:13 SOUTER 27:18 36:9,12,15
19:25 51:20 52:4 settlement 24:15 28:4 37:25 40:8,20
22:13,14 54:9 55:16 setup 26:10 space 25:24 41:18,22 42:4
23:4 see 17:16 21:2 shape 33:8 speak 53:22 44:25 45:1,2
24:1 36:3 38:14 short 10:3 18:11 special 8:2,12,19 46:17 48:11
25:21 46:12 20:10 10:24 11:18 50:7 51:17,24
26:8,16 seek 3:19 5:7 show 9:9 14:5 15:5 19:25 52:24 53:19
21:17 50:16 14:11 17:5 20:2 23:20 54:22,25 55:8
30:7,8,9 seeking 28:2 22:13 23:2,2,4 24:11 25:1,2 55:15
31:1,8 seeks 14:3 35:25 49:17 25:22 26:19 statutes 19:8,14
32:12 send 8:15 11:17 50:14 28:22 29:8,10 28:21,24
33:1,8,9 51:12 showing 13:19 29:17 35:13 statutory 6:22
34:6,17 sending 34:6 14:5,25 36:22,25 49:7 8:17 9:1,17
35:4,12 53:3 side 18:23 49:22 50:5,20 13:12 15:10
36:3,23 sends 14:2 sides 50:2 52:22 53:21 32:8 33:17
sense 10:4 29:24 significant 54:12 41:16 50:13
38:15,17 33:4 44:12 15:22 35:18 specialists 18:9 52:17
separate 7:14 silent 4:16 special-educat... stay 16:14 18:18
23:17 Similarly 4:2 46:24 49:11,17 18:19 20:23
41:3 sequel 4:2 simply 10:1 specific 4:20 stems 41:17
42:21 serve 27:3 29:1 11:15 12:11 7:16 19:14,15 step 21:15 55:5
46:2,5 35:9,20,21 situation 5:13 19:16 24:21 STEVENS 32:7
47:12 served 10:1 10:20 13:7 55:12 structure 4:24
48:8,11 serves 29:3 19:24 28:1 specifically 16:7 student 7:22
49:3 34:25 35:3,25 35:8 38:15 24:15 25:6 10:2 19:24
50:3 service 5:7 17:3 40:3,18 44:19 speculation 15:8 20:2 49:7
24:2,25 25:1 46:10 47:22,24 spending 7:2,7 50:17,18 52:10
52:1 27:14 48:1 54:19 55:10,17 students 48:7,20
services 5:11 8:3 55:2 spoken 53:23 49:5,6,21
54:25 9:11 10:24 situations 38:14 stamps 19:4,6 50:13 52:21
24:12 25:23 52:25 53:5 state 3:13 9:2 Subdivision
5:13 49:22 50:20 52:17 55:3,3 46:16 V
33:23 55:5,14 50:9 51:2 turn 8:15 51:22 value 24:20
systems 12:11 third 36:22 turns 12:19 vehicle 28:16
50:17 T thought 8:9 11:8 two 19:14 24:8 versus 3:5
56:2,4 44:14 47:3 three 5:24 53:9 types 28:12 virtually 46:1
talisman 35:16 time 4:20 6:2 49:23 voluntary 4:18
13:3 23:9 24:5 16:2 20:10 U W
21:25 temporal 37:2 today 37:17 47:9 44:9 53:4
terms 11:12 touched 3:17 understand 8:16 50:9
44:1 testing 22:23 54:10 54:11,17 wasn't 11:14
37:9 44:2 53:8,13 truncated 4:10 understood 16:2 31:24 38:20
50:10 they'd 5:7 18:10 22:8 2:10 43:25 47:6 49:19,20
thing 22:19 29:6 23:2 38:17 universe 30:20 49:20 50:6
11:5,7,8 think 6:22,23 53:4 9:10 15:9 weigh 17:19
13:3,5 8:6,12 12:2,4 trying 38:6 untenable 50:24 welfare 19:2,3
15:9,11 12:10 15:16 tryout 38:22 upset 10:7 16:3 well-heeled
16:5 16:13 18:1 tuition 3:20 4:16 use 19:1 51:13
18:11 20:17,25 22:6 5:19 13:17 useful 35:20,21 went 9:1
20:7 23:14 27:6 17:11 20:21 35:24 We'll 3:3
32:8,25 33:3 24:14 25:21,25 utterly 34:24 we're 23:16
21:13,16 34:7 37:2,4 28:17 31:2 U.S 24:19 we've 8:19
25:3 39:2,25 44:12 33:7,21 34:4 U.S.C 3:12 4:22 whatsoever 10:4
33:2 49:7 50:24 51:23 34:11 36:23 23:25 25:5 48:9
51:8 34:13 43:11 1985 3:10
22:3 40:24 45:22 38:9
50:12 46:7,14,17 1998 24:12
45:20,24
49:21 8:19,21 34:13 54:10
14th 55:16 2004 31:11,25
22:22,23 32:11 2007 1:12
40:11 1401(19)(C) 25 2:7 48:3
41:21 29 48:3
3
47:24
4:22
4 47:24
36:23 24:1
5
5 55:16
11:16 15:6 5a 47:10
53 2:14
51:14 52:4
25:5 98 41:21
1415(f) 41:20
31:10,14,16
1:7 3:3 1415(k)(4)(C)
168 42:20
1:12 21:20 17 24:14
