IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
OFFICE OF SENATOR MARK :
DAYTON, :
Appellant :
v. : No. 06-618
BRAD HANSON. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 24, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
JEAN M. MANNING, ESQ., Senate Chief Counsel for
employment, Washington D.C.; on behalf of
Appellant.
RICHARD A. SALZMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Appellee.
THOMAS E. CABALLERO, ESQ., Assistant Senate Legal
Counsel, Washington, D.C.; for United States Senate,
as amicus curiae, supporting Appellee.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JEAN M. MANNING, ESQ.
On behalf of the Appellant 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
RICHARD A. SALZMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of Appellee 31
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS E. CABALLERO, ESQ.,
On behalf of the United States Senate,
as amicus curiae, supporting Appellee 46
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JEAN M. MANNING, ESQ.
On behalf of the Appellant 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
[1:00 p.m.]
JUSTICE STEVENS: We will hear argument in
No. 06-618, the Office of Senator Mark Dayton against
Brad Hanson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEAN M. MANNING
ON BEHALF OF APPELLANT
MS. MANNING: Justice Stevens and may it
please the Court:
If I may, I would like to quickly frame the
merits of the case and then turn to the jurisdictional
issue. In United States vs. Gravel this Court
recognized that members of Congress have to delegate
some of their legislative authority to employees and
these employees are a second self to the member. They
are performing some of the legislative duties the member
himself would otherwise perform. Therefore, they are an
integral part of the legislative process of the member's
office. For that reason, the member must have absolute
trust and confidence that these employees are in fact
performing as his second self, and to do that the member
has to have complete discretion in selecting who these
employees are and in managing them.
If a court oversees a member's selection of
these employees and his management of these employees,
then the court and not the member is managing part of
his legislative process and that is a violation of the
Speech or Debate Clause because the purpose of the
clause is to ensure that the legislative process will be
performed independently. Now --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you think -- do you
think that we owe any special measure of respect to the
Congress, that is most intimately concerned with the
Speech or Debate Clause, with their view that this is,
this legislation is compatible with that clause?
MS. MANNING: I do not, Justice Ginsburg.
This Court has never deferred to Congress with respect
to its interpretation and in fact has disagreed with
Congress, for example, in the Gravel case. But the
other reason is that the Congress of course is a
political body and because of that it will make
decisions that are politically expedient at times, which
means that over time their decisions can change, while
the Court is uniquely designed and intended to decide
cases on something other than what is politically
expedient. This is especially important when we are
dealing with the Constitution and interpreting the
Constitution.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what we are involved
with in this case is Congress subjecting itself to the
laws that govern all other employers.
MS. MANNING: It did, Justice Ginsburg,
subject itself, but it also in Section 413 recognized
that there may be Speech or Debate Clause issues and
maybe not all of these cases can be adjudicated in a
court. Not that they can't be adjudicated, but maybe
not in a court. So while subjecting itself to the law
and doing the best it could to do that, it also cannot
trump the Constitution.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is what the statute
says, and so how could the statute possibly be
unconstitutional?
MS. MANNING: We are not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, the Constitution --
I mean, the statute has within itself a Speech or Debate
Clause exception. Now, I guess you can argue that a
lower court might not accurately provide the Speech or
Debate Clause protection that is due, but that, that
doesn't meet, it seems to me, the, the jurisdictional
requirement that, that the constitutionality of the
statute be called into question.
MS. MANNING: Well, Justice Scalia, we are
not arguing that the statute is unconstitutional.
Rather, it's an as-applied argument. What we are
arguing is that the issue that was before the circuit
court was whether the application of Section 408 to this
particular case -- and of course 408 is what gives the
Court jurisdiction -- whether applying that to this case
violates the Constitution.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that doesn't comply
with Section 412, which says that an appeal may be taken
directly to the Supreme Court from "any interlocutory or
final judgment decree of order of court upon the
constitutionality of any provision of the Act." Now,
and as-applied challenge is not a challenge to the
constitutionality of the provision.
MS. MANNING: Justice Scalia, in the United
States versus Eichman, that statute at issue there had
statutory direct appeal language that was exactly the
language of 412.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't there a further
problem here, though, that the order of the district
court gave no explanation? We have no way of knowing
exactly why the court ruled the way it did, and for that
reason the appeal, the review, was that the original
appeal was taken properly to the court of appeals, so
that we are here not on appellate jurisdiction, but cert
jurisdiction, if at all.
MS. MANNING: I believe that you can take
appellate jurisdiction of this case because, as I was
saying, in United --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, there'S no direct
appeal. We have appellate jurisdiction only if there's
a direct appeal and there's no direct appeal. This is
coming from the court of appeals.
MS. MANNING: Oh, Section 412 provides
direct appeal from either court, unlike the Flag
Protection Act direct appeal language, which must be
from the district court. Section 412 doesn't limit it
to an appeal from the district court. It can be either
one.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What pages are the text of
412 set out on? You're going to have to help me here.
MS. MANNING: I'm sorry. With respect to --
it's at the jurisdictional statement at page 65a. And
the direct appellate language that was at issue in the
Flag Protection Act did limit the appeal to appeals from
the district court. But Section 412 is different from
that. It doesn't --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why wasn't the ruling
of the district court a ruling upon the
constitutionality of the statute as applied? As I
understand it, you moved to dismiss the case on the
ground that an individual performing the duties that
Mr. Dayton performed cannot sue a member of Congress for
employment discrimination and the district court denied
that. Why isn't that a ruling on the constitutionality
of the, of the statute as applied?
MS. MANNING: Well, Justice Alito, the
argument we made was that to reach that decision there
were a couple of sub-arguments the court had to reach.
We had argued that, number one, is there a waiver of
sovereign immunity? If not, then is an employee who
meets the I'll call the duties test that we've set out
in our brief, is that employee's claim jurisdictionally
barred from court review, and if so does Mr. Hanson meet
that duties test? Now, the court could have decided
that Mr. Hanson doesn't meet the duties test, therefore
we never have to reach the constitutional issue, and
that would have been a decision on his duties, not on
the Constitution.
JUSTICE ALITO: Was there a dispute about
the nature of his duties?
MS. MANNING: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE ALITO: Not how you characterize his
duties, but what his duties actually were. Was there a
dispute about that?
MS. MANNING: He did not dispute his duties.
What he disputed was -- what he said was that of the
duties we set forth in the affidavit -- and that was
Mr. Kimball's declaration, which is at the
jurisdictional statement at 66a -- he said that they
represent only 5 percent of his legislative duties over
the course of his employment. Well, of course, we're
not setting forth every jurisdictional duty he had over
the course of his employment. So he --
JUSTICE ALITO: But didn't the district
court rule that somebody performing those duties can
constitutionally be tried -- bring suit, and it doesn't,
and it doesn't violate the Speech or Debate Clause? So
I don't see how that's not a ruling on the
constitutionality of the statute as applied.
MS. MANNING: No, Justice Alito, the court
didn't rule that. The court just gave us a minute
order, and there's a possibility that it ruled that, but
there is a possibility that it just said it doesn't
matter what test you're telling me, counsel, because
this particular employee doesn't meet your test to begin
with. So I'm saying, the court could have said, I'm
saying he doesn't meet --
JUSTICE BREYER: Don't you agree with
Justice Scalia -- Justice Alito? Don't you agree with
Justice Alito? I thought he's saying it's a ruling on
constitutionality.
MS. MANNING: It is a -- not the district
court ruling. Not the district court. The appellate
court, yes. I'm sorry, Justice Breyer. The appellate
court, yes; the district court, no, because the district
court was merely a minute order. And it's a possibility
that it could have been unconstitutional and a
possibility it could not.
JUSTICE BREYER: I see.
JUSTICE SCALIA: My problem is, it's
extraordinary. We have very few direct appeal cases any
more and I, I am loathe to read Section 412 as embracing
a decision by a court that a particular use of this
statute was unconstitutional. You say it was, the
statute was unconstitutional as applied. That's sloppy
language. It really means that this application of the
statute or the use of the statute for this purpose was
unconstitutional.
I think that's something different from
saying that it was an order of the court upon the
constitutionality of any provision. Which provision of
this Act has been held to be unconstitutional?
MS. MANNING: Section 408 as applied to this
case is unconstitutional.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which -- but it hasn't been
held to be unconstitutional. It's perfectly
constitutional. You're just saying it can't be used in
this particular case.
MS. MANNING: Well, when Congress --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, read the language.
It says "The constitutionality of any provision of this
act," not "the constitutionality of the application of
any provision of this act."
MS. MANNING: Yes, and in United States
versus Eichman, Justice Scalia, the very same language
was at issue.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What is that citation? I
was looking for that. Is that cited in your brief?
MS. MANNING: Yes, United States versus
Eichman is cited at the Appellant's reply brief at page
1.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Thank you.
MS. MANNING: And the statutory section is
18 U.S.C. Section 700(d), and the direct appeal language
is exactly the same, "upon the constitutionality of a
provision of this act." And this Court accepted direct
appeal when the issue was whether the application of the
Flag Protection Act was unconstitutional. In any event,
even if this Court were not to take jurisdiction --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But in the flag case the
whole statute was either valid or not. There weren't
different applications, were there?
MS. MANNING: Counsel argued both, but this
Court did not deal with both. This Court actually took
direct appeal just on the as-applied argument. Counsel
argued the statute was unconstitutional and the second
argument was --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You mean we held that the
statute was constitutional on its face?
MS. MANNING: What the Court held was --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'll look at Eichman, but
it's not my recollection of the case, that the whole,
the essence of the duty imposed by, under the statute
was held.
MS. MANNING: It was the application in that
particular situation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but there's always
an application or there's no case.
MS. MANNING: Well, the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Absent some declaratory
judgment provision.
JUSTICE STEVENS: We simply didn't rule hold
was a right to burn flags in some cases and not others.
MS. MANNING: Well, there were questions
that the parties raised. One was, is the statute
unconstitutional altogether. And the Court didn't even
touch that. Instead the second argument they raised was
well, is it constitutional -- unconstitutional, rather,
as applied on these facts? And that is what the Court
took the case on, that was what allowed direct
jurisdiction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what had the lower
court held? It isn't a question of what we held; it's a
question of what the lower court had held. Had the
lower court held that it was unconstitutional?
MS. MANNING: I'm sorry, Justice Scalia, I
don't remember what the lower court held in that case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, but that can mean
-- you can always dispose of a, of a facial challenge by
just saying we don't have to reach the facial question;
we can decide it on an as applied question. But in
order to get here in the first place, it has to be a
challenge to the constitutionality of a provision of the
Act.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And in we recite that the
district court held the Act unconstitutional as applied
to appellees and dismissed the charges.
MS. MANNING: Right. Unconstitutional as
applied so it was an as applied argument. And now when
the Court wants a statute to mean that it's only an
unconstitutional interpretation as opposed to a
constitutional interpretation, the Court -- I'm sorry,
Congress makes that distinction. So for example in 28
U.S.C. Section 1257, which was a direct appeals statute,
and has since been repealed, in that statute Congress
did say that there is direct appeal when the statute is
found to be constitutional, or when the statute is found
to be unconstitutional. But it used -- Congress, that
is, used the vague language, more vague and general
language in Section 412, which is just upon the
constitutionality. In any event --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I realize, before you leave
that I realize that on a jurisdictional issue like that
we have an obligation to raise it ourselves. But I'm --
I'm -- I'm curious, was -- was jurisdiction contested in
that case?
MS. MANNING: Not that I recall in the
Eichman case. Not that I recall.
JUSTICE SOUTER:
MS. MANNING: Okay. In any case, this Court
should accept the petition, take this case on a petition
for writ because the decision of the court of appeals
was upon a question of Federal law that is an important
question.
Moving to my Speech or Debate Clause
argument, with respect to Speech or Debate Clause, this
Court has held that all acts that are within the
legitimate legislative sphere are protected by Speech or
Debate Clause immunity. And the Court has defined what
is inside that sphere as anything that is part of the
due functioning of the legislative process. And when an
employee is an alter ego, that is, a second self of a
member, that employee by definition is actually
performing part of the member's job. He is performing
legislative acts so he is in this sphere. He is doing
something that is part of the due functioning of the
legislative process. He is in that sphere.
JUSTICE BREYER: What does he do? I mean I
looked at what he does in 74, 75, 76a. He seems to
spend a lot of time moving furniture. He lists that
twice. He runs the office. And he represents, he is
out in the local office somewhere and he talks to
constituents. I mean, he doesn't even appear in the
Senate office except very rarely in which case he is
doing casework. So I guess if he is included in that, I
mean so is a full-time furniture mover.
MS. MANNING: Justice Breyer, he did
significantly more than that. First --
JUSTICE BREYER: I have the whole list here.
What here suggests, he ever -- he doesn't even write a
statement for the floor. There is nothing here that
suggests one word of anything he did ever went to a
committee meeting, to a floor of the Senate, anything.
MS. MANNING: Oh, Justice --
JUSTICE BREYER: What?
MS. MANNING: Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: What are the words?
MS. MANNING: Actually in the Kimball
declaration, which is at jurisdictional statement 66a,
and the self evaluation of Mr. Hanson which is attached
thereto as a jurisdictional statement at 78a, and this
is his self evaluation and Mr. Kimball, his supervisor
at the time telling what he had done, he being
Mr. Hanson.
Some of the things Mr. Hanson did was he did
talk to constituents, but remember of course the member
is in D.C.; he is supposed to be representing people in
the State. The very people who have contact with --
JUSTICE BREYER: I agree with that one. I
just said he doesn't do anything that gets to the floor
of the Senate, that gets to a committee report, that
gets to a committee hearing. Now what in there -- and
you said it was not contested, so I guess the best
source if it's not contested is his affidavit.
MS. MANNING: Justice Breyer actually he did
both of those. He for example, when talking to the
constituents realized that there was a problem with
respect to ambulance reimbursement for health care. He
went to the Senator and said we've got a problem here in
the State, and the constituents have identified it. He
then said to the Senator, I think you should draft
legislation on this and I think you should have a
committee hearing on this. Both of which the Senator
did. Mr. Hanson drafted that legislation. He --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh. Where does it say
that? He drafted legislation that was then introduced?
MS. MANNING: Yes, he did. He drafted --
JUSTICE BREYER: Where does it say that?
MS. MANNING: That is in the Kimball
declaration which is jurisdictional statements at page
66a. And he also prepared the witnesses for the
hearings. Justice -- I'm sorry, Senator Dayton had the
hearing on the health care issue, and Mr. Hanson
identified the witnesses for that, prepared them, wrote
the questions for the hearing and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, he didn't do
exclusively that stuff anyway. We can certainly all
agree on that. And why isn't it sufficient that when
any of those issues are, his activities in any of those
capacities are sought to be introduced into evidence,
anyone tries to contradict them, then you can bring in
your Speech or Debate Clause objection?
MS. MANNING: Because it is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is the whole suit
precluded?
MS. MANNING: The whole suit is precluded
because when you have as we do an employee who is in
this legislative sphere, that the Court has identified,
he is in that sphere because he is performing
legislative acts. So a member who decides, you know, I
don't want him in my legislative duties anymore, my
sphere, I'm pulling him out. Taking him out, when the
member takes him out of that process, he has done
something -- he being the member -- that is also part of
the functioning of the legislative process, which is the
test.
So the termination itself is part of the
functioning of the legislative process which is the test
for a legislative act. And therefore this case is
predicated on a legislative act. That is, the
termination. And in Doe V. McMillan this Court stated
that a case that is predicated on a legislative cannot
be adjudicated.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm puzzled. Firing
somebody is a legislative act?
MS. MANNING: I'm sorry, Justice Stevens?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Firing someone is a
legislative act?
MS. MANNING: Firing not anyone is a
legislative act, but firing your second self is a
legislative act. And the reason for that is that you
are doing something that is part of your legislative
process. You created a hole in your legislative
process; you have taken out an employee who is your
second self. This is your second self. And you've
decided, you know, I think my legislative process is
going to work better with him gone.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's part of -- how many
second selves would there be?
(Laughter.)
MS. MANNING: I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: On the Senator's staff?
MS. MANNING: I'm sorry. I still didn't
hear.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many second selves?
Of -- what universe are you covering? Who is not a
second self, who works in a Senator's office?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe he was the 23rd self.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think you have to figure
out when he was hired.
MS. MANNING: Well, in Gravel, in United
States vs. Gravel, this Court stated not only do you
have second selves, but you must -- members must
delegate and redelegate and redelegate authority. That
implies there are a lot of second selves. It's not one
person. So there can be --
JUSTICE BREYER: What's wrong with this? I
found what you're talking about here. It says in
paragraph 13, contrary to what he says in his own
evaluation, that Senator Dayton's staff, including
Mr. Hanson -- that's a little uncertain, what they mean
by that -- introduced a bill and drafted it. Okay? And
then on paragraph 14 they say on November 15th, 2001,
Mr. Hanson -- just as you said -- planned a Senate
Government Affairs Committee meeting, selected hearing
witnesses and prepared questions.
Now suppose that we did as the court, lower
court wanted to do, say let's just see if that becomes
relevant. Because it's possible, given his other tasks
that those two incidents, one on November 15th and the
other, whenever help he gave to the drafting, had
nothing to do with his being fired and nobody claims
that. So what they said is let's wait and see if that
becomes relevant. Now what's wrong with that solution?
MS. MANNING: What's wrong with that
solution is that when a member, as I was explaining in
response to Justice Stevens' questions, when a member
has a second self who is in the legislative process and
the member says you know, I'm pulling him out of the
process because he doesn't perform well, he -- I don't
think he is my second self, that termination for
whatever reason is part of the process because the
member has changed the process.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Let's make an
absurd case out of it which I'm trying to do a little
bit to get you to focus on it. Let's suppose he got
fired because he didn't move the furniture properly.
MS. MANNING: The -- it is a whole employee.
When he is removed from the process for whatever reason,
he is gone from the process so that is part of the
functioning of the process. If I may give an example,
let's say that the Senator is at Union Station and he is
buying a gift for someone and he hears someone making
very derogatory statements to the cashier, and he turns
around and lo and behold, this is his legislative
director. And he says I can't have this person as my
second self; I don't talk to individuals that way; this
has nothing to do with my legislative process but this
is a second self and he is not my second self and I pull
him out of the process.
That has affected his legislative process.
He now has a hole in this sphere, this legislative
sphere. The person is gone. That is a part of his
legislative process. He didn't matter, why he is gone.
He is gone.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Isn't that a -- can you
give me examples of cases where that Act applies?
MS. MANNING: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you give me instances
in which employees of an the office of a Senator are
covered by these obligations and cannot invoke the
Speech or Debate Clause? What's the classic example
where you can't invoke the Speech or Debate Clause?
MS. MANNING: Where you cannot invoke the
Speech or Debate Clause.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yeah.
MS. MANNING: Was that the question, or can?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. Because it seems to
me that your argument just completely eviscerates the
intent of the Congress in passing this Act.
MS. MANNING: If I may answer the second
question first, approximately 75 percent of the people
who are covered by this Act, the employees who are
covered by this Act are not employed by members of
Congress or committees. Now those employees for the
most part -- and not all of them, because some of those
employees do work on the floor, but for the most part --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, except the Act
itself has a provision for office of Senators.
MS. MANNING: And those employees --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And so it seems to me
you're giving no effect to that. You say there is a
hole in the process the minute the furniture mover is
gone?
MS. MANNING: No, Justice Kennedy, those
employees -- first of all some of those employees can
sue. For example the Court has said that writing news
releases or newsletters to constituents, this is in the
Brewster case, are not, that is not a legislative act.
So if we have an employee in a member's office like the
deputy press secretary who does those kind of things,
that person is not performing legislative acts. But in
addition to that these employees still have a -- a
forum; their forum is the Office of Compliance, which is
unique to the Congressional Accountability Act. And the
Office of Compliance has cases heard before retired
judges; the employees get the same remedies as they
would in court. It is the same procedure except that it
is an expedited procedure and it is a confidential
procedure.
So these employees are, it's not that they
can't sue; it's that they cannot sue in Federal court.
JUSTICE ALITO: If this statute --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Wouldn't they get into --
no, you.
JUSTICE ALITO: If this statute was set up
so that the defendant here was the Senate, as opposed to
the office of a Senator, would you still say that this
suit couldn't go forward?
MS. MANNING: With respect to the abatement
issue, I would -- this is with respect to the abatement
issue -- I would say that the case would not be abated,
because the defendant would still exist. But with
respect to the Speech or Debate Clause issue I would say
it could not still go forward, and the reason for that
is the immunity is, as this Court stated in Gravel, is
not like a badge that attaches to different people and
different entities. It's an expression of a policy,
which means that whenever a case is going to infringe
into this legislative sphere, irrespective of who the
defendant is, then the case could not be adjudicated in
a Federal court.
And so for example in Eastland versus
Servicemen's Fund this Court stated that a committee of
the Senate is covered by the Speech or Debate Clause.
And in Tenney although that was a State case, the Court
did apply the Speech or Debate Clause jurisprudence.
The Court there said that a committee of the State is
covered by the Speech or Debate Clause and the case
would be dismissed.
And then in Doe vs. McMillan, in that case
there was a consultant to Congress and he was sued.
There was functionaries of Congress that did not work
for a member, did not work for a committee and the Court
held in that case that if those, if the consultant and
the functionaries were performing duties that were
within this legislative sphere, the Speech or Debate
Clause clause applies and the case was dismissed.
JUSTICE ALITO: In what sense would the
member be called to answer under those circumstances, if
the member isn't a defendant and has no financial
liability and is able to invoke the clause as an
evidentiary privilege? In what sense would the Speech
or Debate Clause be applicable?
MS. MANNING: In the scenario where the
Congress is the defendant?
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes.
MS. MANNING: Well, what we are arguing is
that the termination itself, the termination itself is a
legislative act because the termination itself is part
of the due functioning of the legislative process. And
in Doe V. McMillan the Court stated that when a case is
predicated on a legislative act, court jurisdiction is
barred. Now also in answer to your question it doesn't
matter who the defendant is. The member, let's say
Congress was --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well why doesn't it matter
who the defendant is? Because I don't, this so-called
office of Senator Mark Dayton is a construct that I
understand, and there is no immunity problem there. But
if, if that office is gone now and getting to your
hypothesis, if the, if -- if the true party is the
Senate of the United States, has there been any
unequivocal waiver of immunity with respect to the
entire Senator or the Senate of the United States as an
institution?
MS. MANNING: No Justice Ginsburg, there has
been no waiver --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm Justice Souter.
MS. MANNING: I'm sorry. Justice Souter,
sorry. Justice Souter --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You're very flattering.
(Laughter.)
MS. MANNING: Sorry. Justice Souter, sorry,
Justice Souter.
There has been no waiver for the Senate as a
defendant. Section 1408 of the CAA which of course
gives the Court jurisdiction --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but I was just going
to say if this case continues we've got to accept the
proposition that the Office of Senator Mark Dayton is
still a, some kind of an entity that has got to be
accorded reality by the judiciary, right.
MS. MANNING: That is correct, because --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And how do we do it? I
mean, you've said -- I don't want to go too far with a
metaphor, but you spoke a moment ago of there being sort
of a, what did you say, a hole or a space in the
legislative sphere when somebody is fired. In the
sphere at the moment is totally empty. The Senator's
gone. Everybody knows that this, this office of Senator
Mark Dayton is a totally fictional construct. And in
reality, as you point out, the money is going to come
out of the Senate or some Senate fund. If we allow this
to go forward, we've got to face the reality that it's
the Senate which is the defendant and there hasn't been
a waiver of immunity.
MS. MANNING: I agree with that, Justice
Souter. There is no defendant that exists any more.
The only defendant in the CAA, and the language is very
express, is the employing office and the employing
office is defined in Section 1301(9) as, for purposes of
this case, "the personal office of a member of
Congress." And there is no member of Congress --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but at this point
that's silly. There's no Senator. There's no office in
any sense.
MS. MANNING: I agree with you that there is
no defendant any more. This defendant has ceased to
exist and this case has abated. There is no successor
and when there is no successor there are not two
adversarial parties in the case. There's no case or
controversy, case is moot, and the case should be
dismissed on that basis alone.
Why -- the Court does not even have to reach
the jurisdictional issue with respect to the Speech or
Debate Clause because this case became moot in January
when the function of the office, which was solely to
support Senator Dayton -- when there was no Senator
Dayton there was no office of Senator Dayton. There is
no defendant that is extant in this case and therefore
the case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There's never an office. I
mean, I think the office is just a fictional construct
anyway. So what you say now has nothing to do with
whether, whether this current Senator has, has departed
from the scene. Even if he were still on the scene,
there still wouldn't be any such thing as that office.
It's just a fiction, and it would always be a suit
against Congress, and so you say none of these suits can
ever be brought.
MS. MANNING: Justice Scalia, it is not just
a fiction. The office --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why isn't it a waiver of
sovereign immunity when you set up a suit that envisions
a suit which will be paid off by the Senate? Why isn't
that a waiver of sovereign immunity?
MS. MANNING: It is, Justice Scalia, a
waiver of sovereign immunity that has a condition on it.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is it unequivocal?
MS. MANNING: It is unequivocal --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I mean, when it's done on
the basis of this fiction, is that what we should accept
as an unequivocal waiver?
MS. MANNING: Well, first, I disagree with
the premise in that I don't think it is a fiction that
this office never existed. The office, the personal
office of a member of Congress -- members of Congress
didn't work out in the hallway before the CAA was
passed. There was always a personal office of a member
of Congress. So in that sense it is not a fiction.
I would like to reserve the balance of my
time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: A physical, a physical
office, yes. I mean, they didn't work in the hallway.
But their staff salary was not paid out of their, quote,
"office." It was paid out of the Senate.
MS. MANNING: Well, actually the structure
doesn't support that. The Senate, within the Senate,
each member does pay the salary, sets the salary. We
can have legislative directors and do have legislative
directors in two different offices, different salaries,
different numbers of paid days, different number of
annual leave days.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Setting it is quite
different from paying it.
MS. MANNING: It is paid for --
JUSTICE SCALIA : The Senator sets it and
the Senate pays it.
MS. MANNING: Justice Scalia, actually the
Senate is given an appropriation and all of his salaries
must be paid from the appropriation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. The Senate puts a
limit on how much money it will spend for a particular
Senator. That's all that amounts to. It doesn't hand
him the money. It's still the Senate's money, isn't it?
And what the Senate says is each office will have so
much of a call upon our fund and no more.
MS. MANNING: It is the appropriated fund
for the Senator and the Senator is the one who pays the
fund.
If I may, I'd like to reserve the rest of my
time.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Salzman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD A. SALZMAN
ON BEHALF OF APPELLEE
MR. SALZMAN: Justice Stevens and may it
please the Court:
The motion to dismiss in this case raised a
single issue, the issue of absolute immunity; more
specifically, whether the employing office created by
Congress as the defendant in these kinds of cases can be
sued by a member of a Senator or a House of
Representatives staff. The Dayton office argues that a
Senator's personnel decisions are always a legislative
act that are always absolutely immunized by the Speech
or Debate Clause. That argument is untenable and it was
rejected by every one of the eight judges of the D.C.
Circuit en banc.
This case doesn't involve any administrative
acts. Mr. Hanson didn't work on Capitol Hill. He was
in the Minnesota office. His, the nature of his claim
is that he was a valued employee until he became ill and
disclosed his illness and need for surgery, at which
point he was fired. Senator Dayton's office first says
that they were not even aware, that Senator Dayton was
unaware of the need for surgery at the time he made the
decision to fire Mr. Hanson, and then says that the
reason for the firing was Mr. Hanson's work on a classic
constituent service.
This case presents exactly the hypothetical
that Justice Breyer was asking about. Although
Mr. Hanson had a very small, he says 5 percent of his
duties, that were in some way related to the legislative
process, no one contends, not Mr. Kimball, not Senator
Dayton's office, that that had anything to do with the
reason for his firing. In fact, the only evidence in
the record, in this record so far, is that on that small
amount of work that Mr. Hanson did with respect to
ambulance legislation, he did a, quote unquote, "great
job."
JUSTICE SCALIA: The other side's contention
is that the firing is itself a legislative act and so
when you challenge the firing you are challenging the
legislative act. What do you say to that?
MR. SALZMAN: We say that's absolutely wrong
Justice Scalia, that is absolutely wrong. The reason is
that this Court has said that conduct that is related to
the legislative process, that may in fact be important
to the legislative process, is not itself a part of the
legislative process. That is the fundamental holding of
Brewster. And this Court has found that some actions
that affect an employee, for example in the Bogan case,
where a decision that resulted in the termination of a
person was clearly legislative in nature because it was
made in a legislative proceeding, it was voted upon by
the legislators, and it was based upon either budgetary
or policy determinations.
That is a legislative act. But this Court
in Bogan specifically distinguished that circumstance
from a classic personnel action firing such as happened
to Mr. Hanson here. There was no legislative act
involved in Mr. Hanson's firing. He was just fired.
The reason for the firing is at issue in this case. A
jury can sort out issues like whether or not Senator
Dayton had notice of the need for surgery, whether or
not Mr. Hanson's performance of classic constituent
services was bad or good, as we contend.
But none of that involves legislative
activity as this Court has described it under the speech
or debate act. So our contention is that the only issue
in this case is absolute immunity and there is no
absolute immunity in this case. This case does not
involve a legislative act, as Judge Randolph below and
all of the judges below recognized.
JUSTICE STEVENS: What if his dissent -- or
defense, rather, to the charge is that he was very
inefficient in giving me help in legislative hearings
and so forth, or words of that kind which might be
arguably a legislative act, and that Speech or Debate
Clause forbids inquiry into the quality of his
performing those duties?
MR. SALZMAN: Justice Stevens, certainly the
Speech or Debate Clause does incorporate -- I'm sorry.
The Congressional Accountability Act does incorporate
the Speech or Debate Clause with respect to the
evidentiary privilege and that is clear from Section
413. In that instance, district courts will have to
deal with the proffered evidence on a case-by-case
basis. Obviously, the context matters with respect to
any evidentiary privilege.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But maybe the Senator
might argue that this is all privileged: It's the
reason I fired him, but I can't go into it because I
don't want to invade my own privilege not to discuss
matters that are covered by the immunity.
MR. SALZMAN: Well, Justice Stevens, again
if the reason for the firing would shed light if the
district court would show that the allowing the evidence
that is proffered in would so intrude upon a real
legislative act, then the district court can excise that
evidence from the case. It either can be taken out, as
in the Helstoski case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's the test for
intruding? If it would chill his exercise of the
function in future cases, or if it requires him to talk
about legislative decisions, or what?
MR. SALZMAN: I think, as this Court has
described it, Justice Kennedy, if it would compel the
Senator to testify about his motives for legislation or
for a legislative act, then a district court could
decide that that evidence would not come in. The firing
itself, however, is not a legislative act and the
motivation behind the firing is not precluded by the
Speech or Debate Clause.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What if it required him to
say how he allocated his resources, that he allocate his
resources 10 percent to foreign affairs issues, 50
percent to health care issues? Would that involve is --
is that a Speech or Debate Clause problem?
MR. SALZMAN: I don't believe that it would,
be Justice Kennedy. I don't think that that would
intrude so much on his goals with respect to a
particular piece of legislation or with respect to a
general legislative agenda. I'm not sure I would see
that his testifying about how he has allocated money in
the office, for example, would be anything other than
testimony about an administrative decision.
If he were -- for example, if a plaintiff
certainly attempted to introduce evidence in a case
about a speech that the Senator gave on the floor of the
Senate in which he was accused of making maybe a bigoted
or a sexist remark, Section 413 would clearly preclude
that. And there may be circumstance, for example, where
if a plaintiff wanted to introduce a draft of the speech
or a draft of legislation, that a court, district court,
could in those circumstances say that that intrudes so
much on a true legislative act that the court could
preclude that testimony from going in.
We don't believe that in the, in the run of
these cases, that will be difficult for the district
courts to handle.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That doesn't quite capture
the problem that I'm having. It's not that the
plaintiff can't inquire. Usually they can't. But my
thought is that the defendant cannot put in his own
defense without waiving the privilege that would
otherwise be applicable. So he's sort of in a dilemma.
Either I give up my constitutional right not to talk
about this stuff or I've got to waive that right in
order to give a full explanation of why I discharged the
plaintiff.
MR. SALZMAN: Understood, Justice Stevens.
I think that in most cases that will not present a
dilemma. Even if the Senator's explanation is, I
assigned a real legislative aide to research a piece of
legislation and I was dissatisfied for whatever reason,
suppose the reason is that the aide simply didn't turn
in the memo that that he was assigned to do. The
Senator testifying about, I gave an assignment to this
person, the due date was September 1st, I never got it
or he was late or it was riddled with errors --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Or he just wrote a lousy
memo. In order to demonstrate it's lousy, I've got to
talk about legislative matters.
MR. SALZMAN: If that is truly the situation
and if a district court assessing, once all of the
information is presented to the district court, that
requiring the Senator in that circumstance to discuss
really his legislative goals, we think that maybe that
evidence would not be permitted. Now, the, this court
has recognized --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Even if the Senator did
not have a defense?
MR. SALZMAN: Well, in Brewster, Your Honor,
this Court recognized that there may be situations where
the court permits an indictment to go forward, in which
the indictment itself and the proof that the prosecutor
will be presenting does not so intrude on the
legislative process that it would be precluded but that
the Defendant may decide that in order to explain the
accusation he needs to rely on legislative acts. And
the court recognized that that may be the situation that
the Senator is in. I believe the Third Circuit in a
decision written by Justice Alito, the McDade case,
talks about that circumstance, where the Senator at that
point can choose to put in his explanation and be
subject to cross-examination simply with respect to that
explanation, but that the prosecution is not precluded
in its entirety. And certainly that's what we are
talking about here.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but what if the
Senator doesn't want to put it in? I mean, what if he
does not want to waive the privilege? Is his only
choice in effect to sit moot and lose the case?
MR. SALZMAN: Well, if he chooses to sit
moot and if the evidence --
JUSTICE SOUTER: "Mute" I guess I should
have said.
MR. SALZMAN: Mute, I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes.
MR. SALZMAN: If he chooses to stay silent,
then perhaps the case just goes forward without an
explanation. The defendant --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, why don't, why
doesn't that -- why doesn't being placed in that dilemma
in effect implicate the clause, and why can't he invoke
the clause as a basis for dismissal?
MR. SALZMAN: Well, Judge Randolph below
thought that there may be circumstances where the
evidence is so, all of the evidence is so bound up in a
legislative act that the case might not go forward. We
respectfully disagree with that. We think that that
will rarely be the circumstance. But this is the system
that Congress set up and Congress created the system in
a, in a careful way. The defendant is not the member.
The member faces no financial liability whatsoever from
a finding of discrimination or unlawful behavior.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, yes, so far as the
member's immediate financial concern, they took care of
it. But I'm not sure about the careful way. They in
effect said, you know, if this gets into Speech or
Debate Clause issues they prevail. And that kind of
just leaves us with no solution for the problem that
Justice Stevens raised and that I'm concerning with,
unless there's, there's going to be an automatic
dismissal when the member says, look, I cannot respond
to this without getting into, into acts within the
legislative process which are privileged.
Unless you want to recognize that as kind of
an absolute defense upon its invocation, I don't see how
we get out of the problem.
MR. CABALLERO: Well, Justice Souter, our
argument is that the decision itself is certainly not a
legislative act, and the most -- and that is in
accordance with this Court's view of the judicial
privilege in Forrester that the decision itself is not a
judicial act. The reasons behind the decision in the
legislative context could be shielded by the evidentiary
privilege, but we think there's a clear difference
between the employees performing a duty that is related
to the legislative process being different than a
legislative act itself.
It may be that in some rare circumstances
the Senator in order to fully defend himself feels the
need to actually testify about real legislative acts,
such as votes on something or his conduct in a committee
proceeding. But his assessment of an employee's
performance, just as Judge White's assessment in the
Forrester case of Miss Forrester's performance, is not
legislative activity. It may be activity that is
important to the legislative process. It may provide
for a sound legislative arena, just as in the judicial
sphere. But when this Court found unanimous,
unanimously that when Judge White was assessing the
performance of Miss Forrester in the judicial context
and deciding, I don't think she did a good job on
delegated judicial functions, that's not a judicial act.
And we would say the same with respect to a legislative
act, so --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That would go for a
stenographer in a committee hearing?
MR. SALZMAN: Yes, Your Honor, and I believe
that's the Browning case, that the D.C. Circuit
originally had found would be considered a legislative
act. And we do believe that, yes, the assessment by
the, whoever supervised Miss Browning that her
performance was inadequate is not itself a legislative
activity. Miss Browning's performance obviously was
involved, was closely tied to the legislative process
because she was a stenographer at hearings. If the
committee, if the committee decided in a committee
proceeding and took a vote that they were not going to
use stenographers any more and Miss Browning had brought
a challenge with respect to that, alleging that it was
focused personally on her and racially motivated, then
we think a legislative immunity might apply as it did in
the Bogan case.
But absent that, it's our belief that an
assessment of an employee's performance, even if the
employee is performing duties that are related to the
legislative process, is not itself a legislative act.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it could or couldn't
be. I mean, I mean if the legislator, the Senator,
says, I think relevant to my dismissal of this
individual is the individual's performance that revealed
itself in a speech or debate that I gave in the House,
and if that's relevant, then why isn't that the end of
the case, they can't bring it?
MR. SALZMAN: Justice Breyer, I think that
that is one of the rare circumstances where the, the
Senator's assessment of the performance is very tied up
with a legislative act.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, all he'd have to say
is it's relevant to my decision to fire the person.
Now, surely a jury or whoever -- it's probably a jury
matter, I guess, on this -- is entitled to take that
into account. If it's something the jury is entitled to
take into account, you are questioning what that Senator
did in the speech or debate and you are questioning it
in another place, namely, a court.
MR. SALZMAN: You are, Justice Breyer. The
employee's performance, we believe, of the speech
writing would not be considered a legislative act. This
Court said in Gravel that there is a difference between
a legislative act which goes on in a committee
proceeding and preparation for that proceeding, and the
employee's performance getting the Senator ready to give
his speech would not itself be considered a legislative
act, but in that circumstance the district court might
say that because the Senator's explanation is so clearly
tied to a real legislative act, a speech that he
actually gave on the floor of the Congress, perhaps that
might be a circumstance where judge Randolph's view that
that case could not go forward might apply.
That's not this case. This case deals with
threshold immunity issues, where the Senator's office is
saying that any personnel decision that it engages in is
by definition a legislative act if it relates to anybody
who works in their office. And Congress clearly was not
of that view. It defined every employee of the Senate,
including those who worked in a Senator's office, to be
a covered employee and all covered employees under
Section 408 have the right to go to court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Have any cases gone
through a district court on the merits under this Act?
MR. SALZMAN: I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Have any cases under this
Act gone to a district court to judgment on the merits?
MR. SALZMAN: No, Justice Ginsburg. The
closest -- my understanding is the closest we have
gotten is the companion case in this case, the Fields
case, is scheduled for trial in October and it is my
understanding that they have gone through some discovery
in that case. I don't believe that there have been any,
any cases under the Congressional Accountability Act in
court, that have made it past that.
If there are no further questions --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I have one question. The
Appellants here were the ones that appealed to the court
of appeals? Did they appeal from the district court?
MR. SALZMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But under 1291, the United
States Court of Appeals does not have jurisdiction where
direct review may be had in the Supreme Court. So it
seems to me that their position contradicts their own
basis for jurisdiction here. Do you agree with that?
MR. SALZMAN: Not entirely, Justice Kennedy.
We do -- we had thought that initially and then upon
reflection it seemed to us that because the minute order
of the district -- because the order of the district
court was a minute order that did not explain its
reasoning, perhaps there was some ambiguity about
whether he was simply finding that Mr. Hanson had so
little contact with the legislative process that, that
the case should go forward or whether he was in essence
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but my point is that
the Appellants are telling us that this is appealable
here directly, but if that's so they shouldn't have gone
to court of appeals, they shouldn't have gone to the
court of appeals; they're untimely when they come here.
MR. SALZMAN: That is our understanding of
the way it generally works. We believe that the GYRA
statute, which was the predecessor to the Congressional
Accountability Act, may have permitted appeals directly
from the court of appeals to this court. So there
appears to be some ambiguity. When we first responded
with respect to the appeal, we did argue that if Senator
Dayton's office wanted to appeal directly they needed to
do that two years ago when the district court had ruled.
Upon further research, we were not sure that that was
correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Salzman.
Mr. Caballero.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS E. CABALLERO
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES SENATE
AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING APPELLEE
MR. CABALLERO: Justice Stevens and may it
please the Court:
We agree that there is no jurisdiction in
this Court under Section 412. But I first would like to
correct one of the answers regarding cases under this
Congressional Accountability Act.
Two cases have been finally adjudicated by
the district courts. One was two cases against offices
of members or committees where an employee worked for a
member. One of those involved a finding that it was
outside the limitations in the statute. The other case
was a summary judgment finding of an employee who was a
legislative employee of the Committee on Ways and Means
and the Court found that the dismissal there was on an
allowable ground under the statute and there was no
violation of the employee's rights.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And there's no jurisdiction
under 412 because?
MR. CABALLERO: Because, as we said in our
brief, the decision of the court of appeals was a
decision on the scope of the Speech or Debate Clause as
that clause is preserved in Section 413 of the act and
therefore there would be no appeal under Section 412.
If the court does go to the merits in this
matter, I think it's important to effectuate Congress'
intent in enacting the statute along with its concerns
with the Speech or Debate Clause. The Speech or Debate
Clause provides senators and representatives with a
constitutional privilege that is critical to securing
the independence of the legislative branch in our system
of government.
Certainly, Congress is the institution that
has the greatest interest in and is most sensitive to
maintaining a robust speech or debate privilege under
this Court's precedence. In enacting the Congressional
Accountability Act, however, Congress concluded that it
could provide its own employees with the same employment
law protections that it had already provided Executive
Branch employees and private sector employees, including
the critical right of action for victims of illegal
discrimination to bring suit in the Federal court; and
that a suit under the Act would not infringe upon the
Speech or Debate Clause.
Congress relied on this Court's own
precedent in making that determination. Under the
Speech or Debate Clause, this Court has made clear that
the clause is robust, protects activities outside of
just speech and debate on the floor of either House, but
that it shouldn't be extended beyond what is necessary
to preserve the independence of the legislative process.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can we go back a step. I
just -- you said this is appealable and your reason for
it being appealable was because the statute itself --
you said it was not appealable and the reason not is
because the statute itself said that this has to be
applied consistent with the Speech or Debate Clause?
MR. CABALLERO: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's your reason. So I
take it, what about the reason that's been given, that
this is an as-applied challenge instead of on its face?
What about that as a reason for it not being appealable?
MR. CABALLERO: Well, that is an application
of Section 412, the preservation of Speech or Debate
Clause in the statute.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no, I'm not asking
about the argument you are making. I want to ask about
an argument you aren't making, that the reason -- I'll
ask about the one you are making in a second. The
reason I want to know about -- I want to know about the
other possible reason for not being appealed, namely
that this is as applied and not on its face. They don't
strike down any provision. What's your view about that
one?
MR. CABALLERO: Our view is that that is
correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: That is correct. And what
you do about this case, what is it, Eichman?
MR. CABALLERO: The Eichman case they cited.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In Eichman, I was able to
get out the district court and the last part of the
district court, the last line of the district court, it
says the law under which these three -- let me begin
again -- the law under which these three defendants have
been prosecuted is unconstitutional, which seems to me
to contradict what Appellant's counsel told us about
what happened in the district court.
MR. CABALLERO: I think that's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It wouldn't matter anyway,
because our prior decisions that do not explicitly refer
to jurisdictional questions are not authority on
jurisdiction.
MR. CABALLERO: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We have that firm rule:
When we take a case and don't get into the
jurisdictional question, it is not precedent for the
fact -- -
MR. CABALLERO: For a finding of
jurisdiction later, that's correct.
I would say --
JUSTICE BREYER: So then a holding of a
district court in your opinion, the holdings say,
imaginary, is that no one who actually works in an
office of a Senator and who ever worked on any matter
having to do with legislation falls within this Act
because that would violate the speech and debate clause.
That would be quite major in its implication. But
you're saying there is no appeal on that because it's as
applied.
MR. CABALLERO: Right. Based on the court
of appeals decision, I would say the two arguments as
applied in the preservation of Section 413 aren't wholly
separate.
JUSTICE BREYER: Does that mean if I go to
your argument -- I mean, the problem with your argument
it seems to me is that that leaves no room for this
appellate provision at law, because the only reason that
anything is likely to be unconstitutional in this area,
at least 99 percent of it, would be Speech or Debate
Clause violation. So in that interpretation of the
statute there is no direct appeal, or hardly ever.
MR. CABALLERO: Well, there was a lot of
discussion in the legislative history about the
separation of powers generally.
JUSTICE ALITO: We were told that 75 percent
of the employees who were covered by the Act do not work
for an individual member. So how could, how could a
provision to be facially unconstitutional under the
Speech or Debate Clause?
MR. CABALLERO: Well, I think the provision
wasn't held facially unconstitutional.
JUSTICE ALITO: What could it possibly be?
And if it couldn't possibly be then what did Congress
have in mind when it provided it for an interlocutory
appeal from a ruling on the constitutionality of the
statute.
MR. CABALLERO: Again, there was major
debate in the Congress over whether or not the provision
of judicial hearing of suits over congressional
employment decisions, separate from the Speech or Debate
Clause, just a separation of powers concern of having
the judiciary oversee the workings of Congress, and
there was a concern about that separation of powers
issue, which would be a facial issue. Can you hear any
suits by employees of Congress who are employed in a
separate branch?
And that was where this provision has life,
and is meant to protect the ability for a litigant to
bring it before this Court immediately; it would be a
facial challenge.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. That, that may make
sense. I, I wondered why -- why they would provide for
an appeal on constitutionality if they had in mind the
Speech or Debate Clause stuff, when the legislation
itself says that nothing herein shall be deemed a
violation of speech.
MR. CABALLERO: Right. It preserves a
member's -- exactly. It preserves a member's speech or
debate.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah.
MR. CABALLERO: And when Congress did
provide these rights under the statute, it was very
important for the Congress under the previous regime
affecting the Senate, employees had employment
protections and they had administrative processes that
they could go to. But they lacked a judicial right.
And Congress made a specific decision that providing
that right of action was an important employment law
protection employees needed.
And again it relied on this Court's
decisions both under the Speech or Debate Clause as to
the scope of the clause and under Forrester where this
Court held that a judge's employment decision as to an
employee who did judicial duties was not a judicial act,
did -- achieve absolute immunity. It was a -- it was an
administrative act, an employment act.
And similarly here what is brought before
the courts is an employment act. Again this case is
before the Court on a motion to dismiss. There has been
no discovery. There has been no litigation over the
claims involved. There is just a question presented
does the Speech or Debate Clause bar the jurisdiction of
Federal courts when a legislative, an employee with any
legislative duties brings a suit under the Act? And I
think the question, the answer to that question has to
be no.
Indeed in the case here, you could have
litigation over whether the Senator knew of the alleged
disability. That's one of the disputes that's been laid
out in the pleadings, whether that was the basis for
the, for the decision to terminate the employee.
These are all the types of issues that play
out in district courts. District courts receive
evidence. They make these judgments; they see the
specific context and they make specific rulings. To try
to decide in the abstract how you would apply an
employment law case with the Speech or Debate Clause in
an evidentiary sense is very difficult. And that's why
a more full record would be necessary. But to decide
the question on appeal, I think the Court can easily
decide if these cases go forward.
One last point I would like to make is to
address the issue of the existence of the office. It's
not a mere creation of the Act. Senators have personal
offices. Those offices incur liabilities or
obligations. They buy paper; they make contracts and
the like. When a Senator leaves office, the employing
office still has to pay the bills that were incurred
when the Senator was in office. And the Senate allows
employing offices under the approval of the former
member to submit the vouchers and receive payment. The
employing office has life afterwards.
Similarly here, if it incurs an employment
liability it has life sufficient to litigate whether or
not that liability exists and a judgment will be paid
under Government funds under the Act.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it will -- the money is
simply Senate money.
MR. CABALLERO: Yes. The money is an
appropriation of Senate -- and under the fund, the money
is an appropriation for the specific fund under the Act
for paying judgements in these cases.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But none of those funds
are, as I understand it, are somehow subtracted from or
contributed by the funds of individual senatorial
offices while a Senator is in office. I am assuming
that those, that there is a separate appropriation for
the payment of -- of any such judgment, is that correct?
MR. CABALLERO: Under the Act there is.
Congress decided to not have any personal liability for
a member to shield them from that, and also not to
require the member's office in cases such as illegal
discrimination cases, to pay the awards or judgments.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. In the real world
then at this point isn't the Senate the -- the party?
MR. CABALLERO: Perhaps it's a party in
interest, but I would say again that the named party is
not a party without any life except under the Act.
I thank the Court.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Ms. Manning, you have
about a minute left.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT BY JEAN M. MANNING,
ON BEHALF OF APPELLANT
MS. MANNING: There are four instances in
which the Court has found that jurisdiction is barred in
Speech or Debate Clause cases. The first is when the
case is predicated on a legislative act. The second is
when the case cannot, that is cannot be adjudicated
without questioning a legislative act or the motive for
the act. And the third is when the member will be made
to answer in terms of his defense for a legislative act.
This goes to the question that Justice
Stevens asked. In Gravel the Court made it clear that
if the member is made to answer in his defense for a
legislative act, that violates the Speech or Debate
Clause. Under the, these types of cases the member
does, would have to come forward and explain a
legislative act: that is, why did I terminate this
employee?
That is the explanation, because the
termination itself is a legislative act, he is being
questioned about a legislative act.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right. I have one -- one
question. Could the Senate direct you to pay this
judgment?
MS. MANNING: Direct me -- I'm sorry. Me
personally?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Direct your office to --
to do that.
MS. MANNING: To pay the judgment?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because it -- suppose they
thought there was liability and if you say yes, then I
need to know why you and counsel who just addressed this
are on different sides of the case, if you're both
representing the Senate.
MS. MANNING: They cannot direct us to pay.
It of course comes out of the Treasury fund and the
Senate has had absolutely no control or involvement at
all for 12 years in any of these cases. They do not
know --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could it, if it chose?
MS. MANNING: Well, I believe that it cannot
because the defendant in this case is the employing
office.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right.
MS. MANNING: So for that reason the Senate
has never, doesn't even know the cases exist. Doesn't
know that we are negotiating settlement. Doesn't review
settlement agreements. Is not involved in strategy. In
fact the CAA in Section 403 states that the, that the
mediation and then the counseling in the case is
strictly confidential. The Senate cannot even know that
they are happening. Only the employing office can know.
In no sense has the Senate been the defendant. If the
Senate has been defendant --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Ms. Manning --
MS. MANNING: Where this they been for
twelve years? They have not been in these cases for
twelve years.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Ms. Manning.
The case is submitted.
MS. MANNING: Thank you.
(Whereupon, at 2:02 p.m., the case in the
above-titled matter was submitted.)
41:20 42:11,22 aide 37:10,12 49:2 approximately
43:23 44:5,8 8:20 9:7,13,22 7:17 14:2,20 April 1:10
51:7 53:5,7,7,9 alleged 53:19 appear 15:16 argue 5:16
55:2,10,19 allocate 35:21 1:15 argued 8:7 12:1
56:14,17,18 36:5 Appellant 1:5 argues 31:18
34:1,2 47:22 52:24 allowable 46:22 55:24 25:22
53:6 actions 33:6 allowed 13:3 Appellants argument 1:13
33:1 48:4 allows 54:15 Appellant's 3:6 5:24 8:5
activity 33:24 alter 15:5 11:13 49:17 12:3,5,25
29:17 31:25 38:11 ambulance 17:1 Appellee 1:20 48:23,24 50:21
34:14 adjudicated 5:5 amounts 30:24 37:2 asking 32:11
45:20 5:6 18:21 annual 30:13 application 6:1 48:22
47:18 24:20 46:14 answer 22:20 10:14 11:5,20 assessing 37:21
31:24 36:7 answers 46:12 11:25 41:3,20 42:9
11:5,6 affairs 20:14 28:24 49:20 13:22 48:13 assignment
13:17 35:22 appeal 6:6,14,20 49:3 50:15,18 37:14
18:17,18 affect 33:7 6:21 7:3,4,4,7 applies 22:6 Assistant 1:21
19:1,3,4 affidavit 8:25 7:8,10,17 10:9 25:12 assuming 55:7
16:22 11:17,20 12:3 apply 25:1 42:6 as-applied 5:24
agenda 36:4 14:4 44:20 43:19 54:2 6:10 12:3
26:2 ago 27:11 45:25 45:23,24 47:5 applying 6:3 48:17
32:22,24 agree 9:21,22 50:14 51:2,16 appropriated attached 16:8
16:17 17:21 52:9 54:6 31:3 attaches 24:16
35:5 27:22 28:7 appealable appropriation attempted 36:9
36:17 45:1 46:10 45:13 48:9,10 30:20,21 55:1 authority 3:14
49:22 33:6 38:4 care 17:1,16 38:19 40:13 31:21 34:10,13
4:25 6:2,3,25 32:23 42:4 48:3,4,13,21
56:1 bring 9:9 17:24 26:1 27:4 28:2 charges 13:20 36:12 43:15,24
52:5 28:12,16,20,21 chill 35:9 closest 44:10,10
34:19 brought 29:5 33:7,18 34:1,2 choose 38:16 35:16 45:16
45:1 42:3 53:8 34:2 35:6,7 chooses 38:25 56:13
Browning 41:18 36:9 38:14,24 39:6 comes 57:8
3:7 Browning's 41:18 42:7,18 circuit 5:25 committee 16:1
46:6 41:23 43:19,20,20 31:23 38:13 16:19,20 17:6
budgetary 33:11 44:11,11,12,14 41:18 20:14 24:23
36:19 C 57:22 58:7,9 circumstances 22:24 46:16
41:17,20 C 2:1 3:1 cases 4:20 5:5 25:14 36:16 companion
44:14 CAA 27:1,24 10:9 12:21 39:14 40:23 44:11
57:13 29:23 57:21 22:6 23:20 42:20 compatible 4:10
call 8:9 31:2 34:18 5:4,16,18 9:10 concerned 4:8
Capitol 31:25 certainly 17:20 25:1,3,12,12 condition 29:13
9:9 8:11,12 9:8,13 38:17 10:11 14:20
57:23 consultant 25:6 10:18 11:19,22 curious 14:13 40:17 42:24
contact 16:16 13:2,6,7,8,10 50:17 52:23
7:25 11:2 45:9 13:19,23,25 D 53:4,22
22:19 contend 33:22 14:18,20,25 D 3:1 decisions 4:17
25:6,7 contends 32:14 15:2 18:6,19 date 37:15 4:18 31:19
26:5 contention 20:1,16,17 days 30:12,13 35:11 49:21
29:4,22 32:21 33:25 23:11,22 24:1 Dayton 1:4 3:4 51:21 53:2
31:16 contested 14:13 24:15,21,23,25 7:25 17:15 declaration 9:1
43:17 16:21,22 25:2,8 26:1,2 26:8 27:5,16 16:7 17:13
47:7,14 context 34:19 27:2 28:14 28:18,19,19 declaratory
48:1 40:18 41:10 31:12 33:2,6 31:18 32:5 12:18
54:1 33:13,24 35:3 33:20 decree 6:8
continues 27:4 35:5,12,15 Dayton's 20:9 deemed 52:11
contracts 54:12 36:15,15,17 32:4,15 45:24 defend 40:24
34:14 49:17 38:5,6,12 41:8 dealing 4:22 24:12,20 25:15
45:19 contradicts 43:5,9,14 44:3 deals 43:20 25:20 26:4,7
47:17 44:25 44:5,8,16,19 debate 4:3,9 5:4 27:1,20,23,24
contrary 20:8 44:20,23,24 5:15,18 9:10 28:8,8,20
43:8,13 55:6 45:21,25 46:9 17:25 22:11,12 38:10 39:8,20
28:12 49:12,13,13,18 28:16 31:21 49:15
16:14,25 46:2,12 48:14 53:4,10 54:6 34:15 35:19,24 37:1 38:3
23:12 49:7,8,19,24 55:20 56:1,9 40:2 42:16 40:10 56:7,10
5:9,14 counsel 1:16,22 36:21 46:15 47:16,25 48:3 defined 15:2
8:16 9:17 12:1,3 53:9,14,24,24 48:5,13,20 28:1 43:25
10:25 counseling 47:17 48:1 51:19,21 52:10 43:23
13:1,25 57:22 53:1 52:15 53:2,13 delegate 3:13
37:3 couple 8:6 covered 22:10 54:3 56:2,11 20:3
course 4:15 6:2 22:22,23 24:24 decide 4:19 delegated 41:12
6:9,11 27:1 57:8 44:2,2 51:7 38:10 54:2,5,7 37:18
8:2 9:12 court 1:1,13 3:9 covering 19:19 decided 8:12 denied 8:1
10:19 3:12,24 4:1,12 created 19:6 19:9 42:1 departed 28:25
4:19 5:6,7,17 31:15 39:19 55:11 deputy 23:15
14:9 6:1,3,7,8,18,19 creation 54:10 decides 18:8 derogatory
52:9 6:21 7:5,7,9,10 critical 47:11,22 deciding 41:11 21:18
40:6 42:14 1:22 16:15 27:25,25 31:15 23:11 24:22
25:4,12 28:13 E employment exception 5:16
dispute 8:17,22 3:1 46:5 47:19 51:21 exclusively
disputed 8:24 Eastland 24:22 53:7,9 54:3,19 Executive 47:20
11:25 dissatisfied 39:11 40:1 en 31:23 exist 24:12 28:9
30:11 37:11 effectuate 47:7 enacting 47:8,17 57:18
dissent 34:5 ego 15:5 engages 43:22 existed 29:21
57:5 distinction 14:1 Eichman 6:13 ensure 4:4 existence 54:9
33:14 14:16 49:9,10 entirely 45:2 54:21
7:10,18,21 8:1 eight 31:22 entities 24:17 4:21
10:9 13:19 34:17 11:24 33:11 entity 27:6 explain 38:10
12:3 35:3,5,15 35:6 37:3 48:5 envisions 29:9 45:6 56:13
14:2,4 36:15,20 37:21 embracing errors 37:16 explaining
51:2 37:22 43:14 10:10 especially 4:21 20:25
44:5,8,20 45:5 employed 22:23 ESQ 1:16,19,21 explanation
45:5,25 46:15 52:1 2:3,6,9,13 6:18 37:5,9
50:8 53:24,24 9:18 15:5,6 45:10 43:15 56:16
doing 5:8 15:8 32:2 33:7 event 11:21 14:9 expression
36:15 46:20 53:5,14 evidence 17:23 extended 48:6
25:25 37:15 22:24 23:1,4 evidentiary face 12:7 27:19
39:22 8:18,21,21,23 44:2 47:19,21 eviscerates facial 13:12,13
55:14 8:25 9:3,8 18:9 47:21 51:7 22:18 51:25 52:6
34:11 42:10 employee's 8:10 11:18 32:10 fact 3:20 4:13
53:10 40:20 employers 5:1 14:1 16:24 facts 13:2
Forrester 40:16 51:5 16:21 39:2 50:7
47:23 Forrester's 41:4 40:7 43:12 GYRA 45:18 hole 19:6 22:1
forth 8:25 9:5 gift 21:17 23:7 27:12
forward 24:8,14 19:14,15,18 30:4 49:7
39:7,16 43:19 44:4,6,7,9 handle 36:21 42:16 48:5
56:1 gives 6:2 27:2 32:18 33:16 I
46:17,19 frame 3:10 go 24:8,14 27:10 Hanson's 32:8 17:17 18:6
full 37:5 54:5 27:19 34:23 33:17,21 ill 32:2
27:13 function 28:17 44:3 45:10 happening illness 32:3
33:17 35:10 47:6 48:8 57:24 imaginary 50:9
functionaries 50:20 52:22 health 17:1,16 immediate
32:8,16 functioning 15:4 goals 36:2 37:24 hear 3:3 19:17 immediately
33:15 15:9 18:13,16 goes 39:7 43:10 51:25 52:5
35:2 21:15 25:25 56:8 heard 23:20 immunity 8:8
functions 41:12 going 7:13 19:10 hearing 16:20 15:2 24:15
23:10 55:1,2 57:8 42:2 51:20 31:14 34:1,2
32:4 fundamental good 33:22 hearings 17:15 34:25 42:6
46:11 33:5 41:11 34:7 41:25 43:21 53:6
funds 54:22 55:4 gotten 44:11 hears 21:17 immunized
furniture 15:13 government 12:6,8,12 13:6 implicate 39:11
23:1 44:17 46:1 4:14 19:25 help 7:13 20:20 important 4:21
43:17 future 35:10 20:1 24:15 34:7 14:21 33:3
43:9 56:9 Helstoski 35:7 41:6 47:7
47:21 introduce 36:9 55:3 12:20 13:5,9 35:13,20 36:1
introduced 17:9 31:22 34:4 14:17 15:11,20 45:12 49:11
48:7 intruding 35:9 55:9 56:21 19:11,14,15,18 Kimball's 9:1
invocation judgments 21:1,8 22:5,8 34:8 40:2,9
invoke 22:10,12 judicial 40:15 23:5,9 24:2,3,5 knew 53:19
51:8 39:11 41:12,12 51:20 26:16,18,18,19 21:3 40:1 49:1
involve 31:24 52:22 53:5,5 26:20,21,23,24 49:1 57:4,11
involved 4:24 51:23 28:22 29:6,8 knowing 6:18
46:17 53:12 6:22,23,25 7:3 30:3,14,17,19
57:9 27:2 44:23 34:5,12,21 laid 53:20
irrespective 49:23 50:5 36:1,22 37:7 6:15 7:8,16
31:14,14 33:18 50:2 44:22 45:2,12 law 5:7 14:21
54:9 8:10 48:15,22 49:8 50:23 52:24
53:23 42:25 43:2 54:23 55:4,15 30:13
J 4:11,24 5:2,10 56:24 57:2,12 50:22 54:13
51:15 JEAN 1:16 2:3 6:16 7:2,12,20 Legal 1:21
13:24,25 job 15:7 32:20 9:13,21,22,22 Kennedy 11:10 17:5,7,9 32:19
41:11 9:23 10:2,7,8 11:15 12:6,9 35:14 36:3,15
50:11 limit 7:9,17 11:2,7,12,16 meet 5:19 8:11 motivated 42:5
30:23 12:1,8,13,17 8:13 9:18,20 motivation
4:2,4 46:18 14:15,18 15:20 20:14 motive 56:5
15:1,4,8,10 line 49:13 16:2,4,6,23 meets 8:9 motives 35:14
list 15:22 17:10,12 18:1 member 3:15,16 move 21:11
lists 15:13 18:4,24 19:2 3:19,21 4:1 moved 7:23
litigant 52:4 19:14,16,25 7:25 15:6 mover 15:19
litigate 54:20 20:24 21:12 16:14 18:8,11 23:7
23:13 litigation 53:11 22:7,13,16,20 18:12 20:25 moving 14:23
24:19 53:19 23:4,9 24:9 21:1,3,7 25:8 15:13
little 20:10 21:9 25:19,22 26:16 25:14,15 26:4 Mute 39:2,4
27:13 45:9 26:19,23 27:8 28:2,3 29:22
31:19 lo 21:19 27:22 28:7 29:24 30:9 N
loathe 10:10 29:6,12,15,19 31:17 39:20,21 N 2:1,1 3:1
local 15:15 30:7,16,19 40:6 46:17 named 55:18
look 12:9 40:6 31:3 55:21,23 51:8 54:17 nature 8:18 32:1
35:5 looked 15:12 55:25 56:22 55:12 56:6,10 33:9
looking 11:11 57:1,7,13,17 56:12 necessary 48:6
37:10 lose 38:24 58:2,3,6,8 members 3:13 54:5
38:9 lot 15:13 20:4 Mark 1:3 3:4 20:2 22:23 need 32:3,6
39:16 51:3 26:8 27:5,16 29:22 46:16 33:20 40:25
lousy 37:17,18 matter 1:12 9:17 member's 3:18 57:4
41:5 lower 5:17 13:5 22:3 26:4,6 3:24 15:7 needed 45:24
13:7,8,10 43:1 47:7 23:14 39:24 52:25
42:6 20:16 49:20 50:10 52:14,14 55:13 needs 38:11
58:10 memo 37:13,18 negotiating
M matters 34:19 mere 54:10 57:19
45:9 M 1:16 2:3,13 34:25 37:19 merely 10:4 never 4:12 8:14
47:12 3:6 55:23 McDade 38:14 merits 3:11 44:5 28:22 29:21
51:4 maintaining McMillan 18:19 44:8 47:6 37:15 57:18
56:3 47:16 25:5 26:1 metaphor 27:11 news 23:11
major 50:13 mean 5:14,15 mind 51:15 52:9 newsletters
51:18 11:3 12:6 Minnesota 32:1 23:12
3:25 30:4 38:22 27:14 30:12
managing 3:23 42:13,13 50:20 money 27:17 numbers 30:12
54:20,21 2:3,13 3:6,8 10:14 24:18 54:25 55:1 O 2:1 3:1
57:3 4:11 5:2,13,22 46:20 moot 28:12,16 objection 17:25
55:19 8:4,19,23 9:13 measure 4:7 motion 31:13 obligations
page 2:2 7:15 43:7,12 9:16 10:4,6 privileged 34:22
paid 29:10 30:5 performing 3:16 possibly 5:11 problem 6:17
22:9 30:6,12,16,21 3:21 7:24 9:8 51:13,14 10:8 16:25
54:21 15:7,7 18:7 powers 51:5,22 17:2 26:9
26:8,10 paper 54:12 23:16 25:10 51:24 35:24 36:23
paragraph 20:8 34:11 40:20 precedence 40:3,11 50:21
20:12 42:10 47:17 procedure 23:22
29:2 part 3:18 4:1 permits 38:6 precedent 48:2 23:23,24
15:3,7,9 18:12 permitted 37:25 50:2 proceeding
30:4,6 18:15 19:5,11 45:20 preclude 36:12 33:10 41:2
21:6,14 22:2 person 20:5 36:18 42:2 43:11,11
36:6 22:25 23:1 21:20 22:2 precluded 18:3 process 3:18 4:2
44:1 25:24 33:4 23:16 33:9 18:4 35:18 4:4 15:4,10
50:10 49:12 37:15 42:24 38:9,18 18:11,13,16
particular 6:2 personal 28:2 predecessor 19:6,7,9 21:2,4
55:7,13 9:18 10:11 29:21,24 54:10 45:19 21:6,7,13,14
57:15,24 11:1 12:14 55:11 predicated 21:15,22,24,25
54:11,11 parties 12:23 56:23 56:3 25:25 32:14
55:7 28:11 personnel 31:19 premise 29:20 33:3,4,5 38:9
55:15 passed 29:24 14:19 prepared 17:14 45:9 48:7
paying 30:15 plaintiff 36:8,14 presenting 38:8 properly 6:21
31:9 46:5 payment 54:17 planned 20:13 preservation proposition 27:5
10:4,18 pays 30:18 31:4 pleadings 53:21 preserve 48:7 49:16
37:5,18 people 16:15,16 please 3:9 31:12 preserved 47:4 prosecution
40:24 22:21 24:16 46:9 preserves 52:13 38:18
percent 9:3 point 27:17 28:4 52:14 prosecutor 38:7
perfectly 10:24 policy 24:17 prior 49:21 7:8,17 11:21
41:3,4 4:20 37:1 38:23 protects 48:4
R 38:12 reserve 30:1 rulings 54:1
racially 42:5 12:10 resources 35:21 runs 15:14
54:5 respect 4:7,12 S
11:4 39:13 refer 49:21 24:13 26:13 30:20
12:19 Randolph's reflection 45:4 28:15 32:18 salary 30:5,9,9
23:3 43:18 regarding 46:12 34:15,19 36:2 Salzman 1:19
50:23 rare 40:23 42:20 regime 52:19 36:3 38:17 2:6 31:8,9,11
rarely 15:17 reimbursement 41:13 42:4 32:25 34:12
39:18 17:1 45:23 35:1,12,25
read 10:10 11:3 33:2 40:20 respond 40:6 39:13 41:17
real 35:4 37:10 relates 43:23 45:22 44:6,9,21 45:2
reality 27:7,17 20:23 42:14,17 resulted 33:8 9:20,23 10:18
really 10:14 remark 36:12 44:24 57:19 11:4 20:7,8
remedies 23:21 RICHARD 1:19 21:3,20 31:1
32:8,16 33:1 repealed 14:3 13:21 21:8 Scalia 5:10,14
22:16 33:18 34:23 reply 11:13 27:7 30:22 5:22 6:5,12
26:3 35:2 37:11,12 report 16:19 37:3,4 44:3 9:22 10:8,23
50:2 48:9,11,15,16 represent 9:3 47:22 50:16 11:3,8 13:5,9
48:18,24 49:1 representatives 52:13,22,24 13:11 17:19
56:8,20 49:2 50:23 31:18 47:10 56:19 57:16 18:2 19:21,23
reasoning 45:7 16:15 57:6 52:18 29:12 30:3,14
56:5 REBUTTAL 15:14 48:4 32:21 33:1
20:15 recall 14:15,16 required 35:20 rule 9:8,14 52:16
44:17 receive 53:24 requirement 12:20 49:25 scenario 25:19
54:17 5:20 ruled 6:19 9:15 scene 29:1,1
50:13 recognized 3:13 research 37:10 8:2 9:11,23 second 3:15,21
20:9 21:16 shield 55:12 54:23 55:4,15 17:13 21:18
20:2,4 22:9 24:7 26:8 shielded 40:18 sovereign 8:8 states 1:1,13,22
26:14 27:5,15 show 35:3 29:9,11,13 2:10 3:12 6:13
22:20 28:5,18,18,19 sides 57:5 so-called 26:7 11:7,12 20:1
56:3 28:25 30:17,24 side's 32:21 space 27:12 26:12,14 44:23
10:10 34:21 35:14 silent 39:6 54:1,1 55:2 statute 5:10,11
11:16,17 36:10 37:14,23 silly 28:5 specifically 5:15,21,23
27:1 38:2,13,15,22 similarly 53:8 31:15 33:14 6:13 7:22 8:3
34:16 40:24 42:13 54:19 speech 4:3,9 5:4 9:12 10:12,13
44:3 43:3,12 45:23 simply 12:20 5:15,17 9:10 10:15,15 11:24
47:4,5 50:10 53:19 37:12 38:17 14:23,24 15:1 12:4,7,11,23
50:18 54:13,15 55:7 45:8 54:24 17:25 22:11,12 13:23 14:2,3,4
senatorial 55:6 single 31:14 22:14 24:13,24 14:5 24:2,5
36:4 19:20 27:14 situations 38:5 34:15 35:19,24 52:18
53:25 31:19 37:9 sloppy 10:13 36:10,14 40:1 statutory 6:14
19:3,8 52:8 54:4 somebody 9:8 50:12,25 51:10 stenographers
57:25 18:23 27:13 51:21 52:10,12 42:3
sensitive 47:15 sorry 7:14 8:19 52:14 53:2,13 step 48:8
separate 50:19 10:2 13:9,25 54:3 56:2,11 Stevens 3:3,8
55:8 19:14,16 22:7 30:23 18:22,24,25
2:10 51:22,24 34:13 39:4 15:10 18:6,7 31:11 34:5,12
16:1,19 September 44:6 56:22 18:10 22:1,2 34:21 35:1
24:6,24 37:15 sort 27:11 33:19 24:19 25:11 36:22 37:7,17
service 32:9 37:2 27:13,14 41:8 38:2 40:4 46:3
Servicemen's sought 17:23 spoke 27:11 46:8 55:21
30:6,8,8 24:23 sound 41:7 staff 19:15 20:9 56:9 58:2,6
services 33:22 source 16:22 30:5 31:18 strategy 57:20
36:11 set 7:13 8:9,25 Souter 6:16 7:2 State 16:16 17:3 strictly 57:23
46:6 24:5 29:9 7:12 14:10,17 24:25 25:2 strike 49:4
54:15,24 39:19 24:3 26:6,18 stated 18:19 structure 30:7
56:20 sets 30:9,17 26:18,19,20,21 20:1 24:15,23 stuff 17:20 37:4
setting 9:5 30:14 26:23,24 27:3 26:1 52:10
58:1 settlement 57:19 27:23 28:4 statement 7:15 subject 5:3
shed 35:2 40:12 46:24 statements 5:7
19:7 35:6 third 38:13 56:6 10:22,24 11:21 56:11
35:10 37:3,19 thought 9:23 14:6 49:16 52:12
20:7 38:20 45:3 57:3 understand 7:23 voted 33:10
38:15 threshold 43:21 understanding vouchers 54:17
16:11 45:13 time 4:18 15:13 37:7
terminate 53:22 31:7 32:6 26:13 29:14,15 wait 20:22
29:3,9,10 termination told 49:17 51:6 Union 21:16 38:23
53:15 18:15,19 21:5 totally 27:14,16 unique 23:19 waiver 8:7 26:13
33:8 56:17 Treasury 57:8 United 1:1,13,22 29:8,11,13,18
9:17,18 18:14 tries 17:24 19:25 26:12,14 34:24 38:22,23
testify 35:14 truly 37:20 universe 19:19 49:1,1
testifying 36:5 trust 3:20 unquote 32:19 36:14 45:24
46:7 testimony 36:7 trying 21:9 untimely 45:16 Washington 1:9
37:12 text 7:12 turn 3:11 37:12 42:3 wasn't 7:20
thank 11:15 turns 21:18 Usually 36:24 51:12
44:24 thereto 16:9 two 20:19 28:10 39:20,25 45:18
things 16:13 46:14,15 50:17 v 1:6 18:19 26:1 went 15:25 17:2
10:17 17:4,5 valued 32:2 we've 8:9 17:2
28:23 29:20 unanimous 41:8 11:12 24:22 whatsoever
36:1 unanimously victims 47:22 39:21
43:1,3 47:7 49:19 unconstitutio... violate 9:10 witnesses 17:14
20:15 13 20:8 78a 16:9
29:23 18 11:17
31:25
51:7 2
50:10 2001 20:12
45:18 24 1:10
28 14:1
49:20 3 2:4
57:21
6:1,2 10:21
6:6,15 7:6,9
32:25
10:10
46:11,25
48:20
5:3 34:17
2:11
5 9:3 32:12
58:4,5 55 2:14
6
1:6 3:4 65a 7:15
9:2 16:7
17:14
11:14
37:15 7
1:14 3:2 700(d) 11:17
35:22 74 15:12
57:10 75 15:12 22:21
14:2 51:6
44:22 76a 15:12
