IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
WASHINGTON STATE GRANGE, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-713
WASHINGTON STATE :
REPUBLICAN PARTY, ET AL.; :
and :
WASHINGTON, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 06-730
WASHINGTON STATE :
REPUBLICAN PARTY, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, October 1, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ROBERT M. McKENNA ESQ., Attorney General, Olympia,
Wash.; on behalf of Petitioners.
JOHN J. WHITE, JR., ESQ., Kirkland, Wash.; on
behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ROBERT M. McKENNA, ESQ.,
On behalf of Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JOHN J. WHITE, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of Respondents 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ROBERT M. McKENNA, ESQ.
On behalf of Petitioners 47
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in case 06-713, Washington State Grange v.
Washington State Republican Party et al., consolidated
with 06-730, Washington v. Washington State Republican
Party et al.
General McKenna.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT M. McKENNA
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. McKENNA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In adopting Initiative 872, Washington's
voters followed this Court's guidance in California
Democratic Party v. Jones. They adopted a top-two
election system. By so doing the voters eliminated the
crucial constitutional defect of a partisan blanket
primary because in the top-two system the voters are no
longer selecting the party's nominees for the November
election. The Ninth Circuit nonetheless ruled that
Initiative 872 is unconstitutional, holding that
allowing each candidate to state his or her personal
party preference on the ballot would create the
appearance of association between a political party and
candidate.
The Ninth Circuit is wrong for at least two
reasons. First, the Ninth Circuit's appearance-
of-association conclusion assumes that top-two ballots
will look the same as ballots under a party nominating
election system. They will not. The top-two ballot --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can you give us
assurance that they will not? I take it we don't -- we
haven't had an election under this system, so we don't
know what the ballots are going to look like.
MR. McKENNA: Yes, Your Honor. That's
correct. We have not had an election, and the secretary
of state was enjoined by the district court before
having the opportunity to promulgate the regulations
governing the ballot after 872's adoption.
However, Your Honor, we may look to the
declaration of candidacy form, which the secretary of
state did have the opportunity to promulgate, which
appears in the corrected joint appendix at pages
592-593. And what we see there, Your Honor, Mr. Chief
Justice, is that, unlike the old declaration of
candidacy form, we have the candidates declaring
themselves as a candidate for the office of blank, and
instead of saying that they're a candidate of a party,
they say -- that you have an opportunity to check off
the box that my party preference is blank or I'm -- I am
an independent candidate; or, under Initiative 872, if
they check neither box, that will be left blank on the
ballot.
JUSTICE ALITO: But you say that the purpose
of allowing a candidate to declare a preference is
simply to convey useful information to voters, but once
you decided, once the State decided, that the ballot was
not going to indicate party affiliation, why do you
limit candidates to the names of parties? Why don't you
allow them to pick some other phrase that better
expresses their point of view? Somebody may want to
say, I'm the pro-environment candidate, or I'm the
no-new-taxes candidate. Why do you limit them to saying
Democrat, Republican, Libertarian, et cetera?
MR. McKENNA: Your Honor, the voters could
have chosen to allow candidates to include other
information. In fact, in the State's earliest days
candidates were given five words they could use for
whatever expression they wished. But the voters chose
to allow an expression of party preference, which the
State is allowed to do. The State is not required to
allow the ballot to be a form -- forum for political
expression, but the State is allowed to do so and has
chosen to do in this way.
JUSTICE ALITO: What is that and wasn't the
purpose that was offered by the proponent of the
initiative to try to get around the decision in Jones,
to change the system as little as possible?
MR. McKENNA: No, Your Honor, because there
is an immense difference between the top-two system and
the system that replaces the old blanket nominating
primary. The immense difference is of course that the
first stage of this two-stage general election process
is no longer being used to select the nominees of the
parties, which was identified as the one characteristic
in Jones --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Justice Alito can defend
his own question, but he asked whether or not the Grange
stated that this was the purpose.
MR. McKENNA: Well, the Grange was --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And then you -- you didn't
quite answer that question. You said, oh no, and you
gave an explanation. But just as a matter of the
historical record --
MR. McKENNA: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- Justice Alito's
question was accurate with respect to the proponent's
position, was it not?
MR. McKENNA: Yes, Your Honor, but the
Grange also said in the voters' pamphlet statement,
quote, "This system has all the characteristics of a
partisan blanket primary save the constitutionally
crucial one: Primary voters are not choosing a
primary's nominee." That's Joint Appendix 79.
So, yes, they were campaigning for it, but I
believe that the relevant State purpose or regulatory
interest in allowing an expression of party preference
is the same as we see referenced in Tashjian and in
Anderson v. Celebrezze.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if it's your
position that the parties are not really injured or
affected by this, and the parties' position is that they
are, who should we believe? I mean, it's hard for you
to tell the parties that they don't know what's in their
best interest.
MR. McKENNA: Your Honor, this is a facial
challenge. All the major cases underlying this one were
as-applied challenges. The parties were able to bring
in, in all those cases, evidence. There is no evidence
in the record that the parties will be harmed by the
expression of party preference.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We know what -- what it's
going to be like. We don't know the exact phrasing on
the ballot, but we do know that a candidate is allowed
to associate himself with a party, but a party is not
allowed to disociate itself from the candidate.
I am less concerned about the fact that the
candidate can't say I'm the -- I'm the no-taxes
candidate, than I am about the fact that he can
associate himself with the Republican Party or the
Democratic Party on the ballot and that party has no
opportunity on the ballot to say, we have nothing to do
with this person. That it seems to me is a great
disadvantage to the parties.
MR. McKENNA: Justice Scalia, there may be
an association in the dictionary sense, in the same way
that a candidate who expressed a preference for one
public policy versus another may be associated. But in
the constitutional sense, this Court has found that
there is a forced association only when the objecting
party is compelled to speak it or when the objecting
party is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not talking about a
First Amendment forced association. I'm talking about
an association for purposes of making this a fair
election at which the parties have an opportunity to
nominate and support their own candidates. And what
this system creates is a ballot in which an individual
can associate himself with the Republican Party, but on
the ballot the Republican Party is unable to dissociate
itself from that candidate.
MR. McKENNA: Your Honor, I would refer the
Justices to pages 2 and 3 of the Grange yellow brief
where two sample ballots are laid out that incorporate
the language from the declaration of candidacy
regulations.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are you telling us
that that's what the ballots are going to look like?
MR. McKENNA: Yes, Your Honor. I believe
this is what the ballots will look like. And -- and
until the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You have two choices and
I think there's another one on page 12, is there not?
So are you representing, General McKenna, that one of
these will be what the State of Washington ballot will
look like?
MR. McKENNA: Justice Ginsburg, these are
two examples of what the ballot is likely to look like,
although it's frankly also likely to have even more
information stating the difference between expressing a
preference and expressing a formal association.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Will, will it say whether
the party that is preferred likes this candidate?
MR. McKENNA: It will say, Your Honor, if
you would look to the sample --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think you can say yes or
no to that. Will it say whether the party for which he
expresses a preference claims or disclaims him?
MR. McKENNA: It will stay that it is not a
statement by the political party identifying that
candidate.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Please answer yes or no.
Will it say whether the party for which he has expressed
a preference claims or disavows him?
MR. McKENNA: It will not, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: General, as I understand it
the parties are now free to come up with any scheme they
want to for selecting an official candidate.
MR. McKENNA: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Let's assume the Democratic
Party decides to have a State convention. If the law in
Washington provided that the nominee selected by that
convention could state on the ballot not merely a
preference for Democrats, but a statement that, I am the
nominee of the Democratic Party, your position in this
case I take it would be exactly the same.
MR. McKENNA: Yes, Your Honor, it would.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask this question.
Is there anything in the State law that would prevent
you from requiring a candidate to be a member of the
party whose preference he states?
MR. McKENNA: There would not be, Justice
Stevens, no.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And under the -- under the
court's, holding it would be equally unconstitutional if
he did that, I suppose.
MR. McKENNA: Your Honor, it would be
equally constitutional if we prevented someone, yes,
sir, from expressing a party preference or affiliation.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Indeed, there's -- I'm
sorry. Go ahead.
JUSTICE ALITO: Will the ballots necessarily
be the same in every county?
MR. McKENNA: Yes, Your Honor, because they
will be promulgated under regulations established by the
State secretary of state.
JUSTICE ALITO: Some of the counties have
paper ballots, some of the counties have -- is that
correct?
MR. McKENNA: Yes, Your Honor. But in
Washington State nearly all voters vote by mail now. So
they -- over 90 percent of voters and eventually nearly
100 percent of voters will be voting by mail and will
receive the same ballot form, with the same ballot
instructions and explanations as in the samples that
I've showed you.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is -- Iis there any, what
should I say, truth investigation by the State of
Washington? Suppose a candidate who has been a Democrat
all his life, has run for office as a Democrat, agrees
with all the positions of the Democratic Party, chooses
to state on the ballot: I prefer the Republican Party.
That's okay?
MR. McKENNA: Yes, Your Honor. I would
refer you, Justice Scalia to JA-415. Section 9.5(5) of
Initiative 872 requires the candidate to sign a
notarized declaration, quote, "stating that the
information provided on the form is true." So they are
signing declarations -- a declaration which is notarized
saying that everything that they have put on the form is
true.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess -- how can you say
it's false?
MR. McKENNA: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If he thinks he prefers it,
I guess he prefers it, even though it's contrary to his
entire life.
MR. McKENNA: Yes, Justice Scalia, it is
expression of preference. It is a subjective
expression. It would be difficult to disprove.
However, if a candidate were to -- let's say the
chairman of the State Republican Party filed a
declaration of candidacy and said, I prefer the
Democratic Party. The Democratic Party would have many
opportunities to object. And you know, the ballot is
not even the most important source of information that
voters have, as this Court has recognized in Tashjian
and Celebrezze. So there would be many opportunities.
If there is a concern about false
statements, Your Honor, it seems to me the correct
approach is to provide for more speech, not to limit the
speech of all the candidates by refusing to permit them
to express their preferences.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is there any evidence, any
historical evidence, that any candidate has ever done
what Justice Scalia suggests?
MR. McKENNA: No, Your Honor. I'm not
aware of any specific instance.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There just hasn't
been an election under this, under this law, right?
MR. McKENNA: Correct Mr. Chief Justice. We
have not had a chance to even hold an election.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, there is evidence
that, in other States, those who preached racial hatred
have tried to associate themselves with a particular
party, much to the concern of that party, and I see
nothing in your position that would prevent that.
MR. McKENNA: Justice Kennedy, the
candidates will be expressing a preference, this is true
if they wish to. But there will be many -- first of
all, that is not compelled speech by the party; and
secondly, it is not compelling the party to accept that
person as a member, as a member. As the emergency rules
for the declaration and as a sample ballot show, we'll
be very explicit in explaining to the voters that
someone claiming a preference, it's not a statement by
the party that they're claiming the person as a member
or a formal association.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And is the remedy for the
party, you said, to have more speech for the party, to
say that this is not their candidate, etcetera?
MR. McKENNA: Yes, Your Honor, that is
exactly what --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But this Court has said
that parties could be strictly limited in the amount of
moneys they spend to endorse a particular candidate.
MR. McKENNA: But there will be many
opportunities --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't think the law can
have it both ways.
MR. McKENNA: Your Honor, if I can use an
example that might help illustrate our point. Imagine
that Mr. Dale from the Boy Scouts v. Dale case moved to
Washington State and wanted to run for office, and
imagine that, instead of saying party preference, the
voters had said, well, you can choose to list any
organization for which you have a preference, a
political organization or another; and that Mr. Dale
decided to express a preference for the Boy Scouts.
Mr. Dale would be exercising his own speech, but that
would not be the same thing as compelling speech by the
Boy Scouts. Nor would he be compelling --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Nobody is voting for
Mr. Dale perhaps on the misimpression that he is
affiliated with the Boy Scouts, and that's what
undermines the Boy Scouts' associational rights. People
are going to think he's associated with the Boy Scouts
even though they may want to disassociate themselves
with him.
MR. McKENNA: Allowing -- Mr. Chief Justice,
allowing Mr. Dale to say he has a preference for the Boy
Scouts I don't think can reasonably be confused with him
claiming that he is a member, particularly when as
applied --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you agree that if
it were that way, in other words if the ballot looked
like the ballot on page 1 of the Grange reply brief,
that that would be unconstitutional?
MR. McKENNA: Yes, Your Honor, it would be
harder to argue from our side. But Your Honor, the
Ninth Circuit only assumed that the ballot would look
like the ballot on page 1 of the Grange yellow brief.
They assumed that the ballot would look exactly like the
ballot in a nominating primary, and our point here is
that it will not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do these preference
statements continue under the general election?
MR. McKENNA: Yes, Your Honor, they do.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can you change
between the primary and the general election? Can you
say my preferred party is the Republican Party, so you
get more Republican votes to get you over the hump so
you are one of the two, and then in the general election
say, my preference is the Democratic Party, because
there are more Democratic voters?
MR. McKENNA: No, Mr. Chief Justice. State
law would not permit that.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why can't you do that,
if the purpose is to provide accurate information about
a candidate's position. Suppose the candidate prefers
one party at the time of the primary and then something
happens. The issues change. The person -- the
candidate says: Well, now my preference is really for
the other party. I was close before and I've swung over
to the other side. If that's accurate information about
where the candidate stands at the time of the general
election, why can't that be put on the ballot, unless
you're trying to indicate affiliation rather than really
preference?
MR. McKENNA: Justice Alito, the State could
have chosen to allow people to change their preference
expression. But the State did not and the State is not
required to do so.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're saying --
your argument is that they have a First Amendment right
to put their preference on the ballot, but somehow when
the general election comes along that First Amendment
right evaporates.
MR. McKENNA: There is also -- Mr. Chief
Justice, there is also an important practical
consideration here. And the Court has recognized the
State has regulatory practical interests --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General McKenna, may I
ask you at that point --
MR. McKENNA: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- if that's a correct
statement of your position.
I didn't understand you to take the position
that a candidate has a constitutional right to state on
the ballot. The State of Washington has chosen to give
the candidate that option, but is -- I have not read
anything in your brief that suggests that a candidate
has a right to do so.
MR. McKENNA: You're correct, Justice
Ginsburg. I did not mean to suggest that candidates
have a constitutional right to have any information on
the ballot like an expression of party preference. And
I was about to say, there is a very important practical
reason to require candidates to decide what their
preference will be listed as and to keep it the same.
The reason is that we have to have time to print the
ballots and produce the ballots in time to send out 3
weeks before the election, when over 90 percent of
voters begin voting by mail.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you did say that it
is unlikely voters will be mistaken, that they will
mistakenly consider a statement of party preference to
be the equivalent of a party endorsement. You did say
that, and on what basis are you predicting that the
statement of preference will not be confused with a
statement of endorsement?
MR. McKENNA: On two bases, Justice
Ginsburg. The first basis is that, as we've shown with
the sample ballots from the Grange brief, the State will
be extremely explicit in stating that the candidate's
claim of preference or statement of preference is not
the party's statement that the candidate is a member,
endorsee, nominee, or what have you.
The second basis is I think just the general
basis this Court has recognized in Tasjian and in
Anderson v. Cellebreze, where the Court expressed a
greater faith in the ability of individual voters to
inform themselves beyond just the balance. There are so
many other sources of information.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think it's enough
that -- that there's no claim of party endorsement.
There is a claim of associating himself with the party,
and if he associates himself with the party it seems to
me the party should be able to disassociate itself from
him. And I think it harms the party not to permit that.
MR. McKENNA: No, Justice Scalia, I
respectfully disagree. This is not an association in
the constitutional sense. It is merely an expression of
preference, which we -- which Initiative 872 in its open
language and which the ballot will carefully distinguish
from claiming a formal association.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you know any Democrats
who go around saying I prefer the Democratic Party who
do not regard themselves and register themselves as
Democrats? I mean, in the real world I don't know
that -- I don't know whether this is fatal to your case,
but in the real world, it seems to me the distinction
you're drawing is simply not drawn.
MR. McKENNA: Your Honor, I think it's
helpful to think of the expression of party preference
as a subset of party affiliation. In other words,
someone might be a party affiliate --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's helpful to your case,
but, going back to my question, do you know any people
who go around saying, well, you know, I really prefer
the Democrats; I'm a Republican myself? I mean that,
that doesn't happen.
MR. McKENNA: Well, the example of Senator
Lieberman comes to mind, where he said I really prefer
the Democrats and I'm running as an independent.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOUTER: There's always one.
But seriously, as a systemic matter, do you
really think that's -- that's a distinction that anyone
would recognize?
MR. McKENNA: I think that we are permitted
to allow people to express their preference. Many of
these people who do so would be independents, I think.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but that isn't
responsive to my question. Do you really think that
that distinction is a distinction which is accepted as a
working way of thinking in this world?
MR. McKENNA: Yes. Yes, I do, Justice
Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You really do?
MR. McKENNA: In Washington State over 40
percent of the voters, for example, identify themselves
by -- as independents. Keeping in mind we have no party
registration in Washington State, over 40 percent of
voters when asked say I'm an independent; I may -- and
that does not mean they may not prefer one party over
the other, they may not generally vote for one party or
the other, but they think of themselves as independent.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it means that they --
they will prefer the candidate of one party or another,
assuming they vote and there's no independent candidate
running. But it seems to me that the very declaration,
the very assumption of status as an independent says, I
don't as a systemic matter prefer one party to the
other; a pox on both their houses.
MR. McKENNA: Justice Souter, it may also
mean that I choose not to formally affiliate with the
party, even though I prefer that party's policies,
goals. You look at the independent --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It could. But do you
really think, again, in the real world, that that's why
people register themselves as independents?
MR. McKENNA: We have no registration in
Washington State, Justice Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, however the statement
is made.
MR. McKENNA: There have been a number of
cases where individuals have run -- have run for office
as independents and then have chosen to, you know,
attend the caucus meetings of the Democratic Party, for
example. So, yes, it does happen. And the point is
that people are allowed to do this, but they're not
required to.
JUSTICE SCALIA: General McKenna, I'm
interested in how this new system meshes with the
otherwise quite partisan nature of Washington's election
laws. For example, the major political parties have a
certain -- certain benefits that are not given to minor
parties, and the major parties are determined on the
basis of obtaining more than a certain percentage, I
think it's 5 percent, in a statewide election. How are
you going to figure out whether the Republican Party
has, has gotten more than 5 percent when all you have is
somebody who expresses a preference for the Republican
Party, although he's not really a Republican?
MR. McKENNA: Your Honor, as legal counsel
for the State we've analyzed that question, and have
concluded that unless and until the legislature chooses
to alter the statute to harmonize at a practical level,
the way that we will apply that statute is to count the
votes of the party cast for the party's official
nominee. The person who has been identified the party
through their separate nominating process, for example,
through a convention, that person will be identified.
And they will campaign as "the nominee." They will
explain that to the voters in every way possible, and we
will count the votes cast for that person in calculating
whether the 5 percent threshold has been met.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I was going to ask the
counsel for the Respondents, and you can answer as well,
can you explain to me briefly the existing structure for
the Republican Party, the Democratic Party, to say
Mr. Smith is our nominee?
MR. McKENNA: Well, the Initiative 872,
Justice Kennedy, repealed the old State law which
required the parties to use the State primary to select
their nominees. And Initiative 872, in fact, is silent
on the procedures the parties will follow. So they are
left as they were back in the early days of statehood to
decide for themselves how to designate their nominees.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And they have not devised a
structure that we know of?
MR. McKENNA: No. Actually, Your Honor,
they have. In fact, the Republican Party after
Initiative 872 was adopted and before it was enjoined
adopted rules and procedures for holding nominating
conventions.
And they also, for example, adopted a rule,
which is Rule 5, that they said that if an incumbent
runs and receives 66 percent of the support at the
nominating convention, no other Republican can go onto
the ballot. This is their claim. No other Republican
can go onto the first stage ballot and claim to be a
Republican. That is their assertion. Only that one
person can go on with the "R" after his name -- an idea
that we basically reject if it means that no one else
can even express a preference for the Republican Party.
But we agree that only one candidate will be
allowed to truthfully claim that he or she is the
nominee of the party if the party has gone through a
nominating process of its own.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But may not claim that on
the ballot itself?
MR. McKENNA: Correct, Justice Souter.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They're not allowed
to split the ballot in their preference, are they, say I
prefer one party on domestic issues, I prefer the other
party's position on foreign affairs?
MR. McKENNA: No, Mr. Chief Justice, they
are not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: One of the briefs says that
the Republicans -- I think the Republicans or the
Democrats checked with the, with the State election
officials who said that there's no provision for
convention, for nomination by convention.
MR. McKENNA: Justice Scalia, they did not
check with the State officials. They cite in the record
letters from a couple of county auditors. But the
county auditors have no independent authority. They
operate under the secretary of state's rules.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So they can-- they can
conduct conventions if they wish?
MR. McKENNA: Yes, sir, Justice Scalia, they
may.
I would just like to close this part of my
argument, if I may, by pointing out that in our view the
voters have adopted a top-two election system which
vindicates both the rights of the parties and the
people. The parties can select their standardbearers
without any State interference, adopting their own
nomination process.
And the people are not limited to candidates
selected by the parties. They have more choice, which
is a value that was validated in the Jones decision,
albeit holding that you can't do that with nonmembers
selecting the party's nominees.
The parties, though, argue that no candidate
can even state an expression of party preference, cannot
make an expression of party preference on the ballot
without the party's consent. Taken to its logical
conclusion, the parties are really claiming they have a
First Amendment right to require the State to place a
single candidate of their choosing on the ballot.
If you look at the joint appendix, page
13 --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But clearly, it's
just like a trademark case. I mean, they're claiming
their people are going to be confused. They are going
to think this person is affiliated with the Democratic
or Republican Party when they may, in fact, not be at
all.
MR. McKENNA: Mr. Chief Justice, they make
that claim without the benefit of any evidence. The
Ninth Circuit and the district court and the parties
simply assume this will happen, and they assume, for
example, that ballot looks just like the old nominating
primary ballot, when, in fact, as we've shown, it
clearly will not. And, of course, we don't believe
trademark law applies here in this case, although I can
address that if you wish.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I didn't suggest it
would be a trademark violation. I think I said it was
just like the same analysis. And I don't know why you
would give greater protection to the makers of products
than you give to people in the political process.
MR. McKENNA: They deserve protection, of
course, Mr. Chief Justice. The question is whether or
not merely allowing someone to express their party
preference somehow will mislead the voters. This Court
has shown more faith in the voters than that.
I'll reserve the balance of my time. Thank
you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. White.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. WHITE, JR.
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS
MR. WHITE: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
Candidates are the party's messengers to win
over the public on the important issues of the day.
Initiative 872 converts the established right of
political parties to select their messengers into a mere
right to endorse.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What do you -- what do you
say about the fact that you have a right to select and
designate an official candidate and it's independent of
this ballot procedures?
MR. WHITE: As the secretary of state
pointed out -- and this is at JA-363 -- the secretary of
state indicated the State would pay no attention to the
party's nominating conventions and instead would
continue to allow candidates to use party labels just as
they had in the primary before.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. If the rationale in
Jones was that the defect was that the association,
political association, was being adulterated by the
method of, of the use of ballots, to select what was an
official nominee, that problem does not exist here.
MR. WHITE: It does, it does, Your Honor.
And it does in the manner that this -- the candidates
who were selected at the Initiative 872, the modified
blanket primary, are going to be carrying the party's
standard in the general election.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You're saying in practical
terms, this is a nomination, even though there may be a
separate official nomination that nobody pays attention
to?
MR. WHITE: Absolutely, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then why is one party going
to the trouble of establishing a convention system to
make nominations?
MR. WHITE: We adopted -- the Republican
Party, the Democratic Party and the Libertarian Party
all adopted rules governing nomination of our candidates
by convention. We corresponded with all of the county
auditors who would be conducting partisan elections in
2005, and we received identical letters from all four of
them indicating that they had consulted with the
Secretary of State and that the initiative contemplated
no partisan nomination process separate and apart from
the primary. The Secretary of State received copies of
those letters; the Secretary of State's public
statements with respect to those letters was that they
would pay no attention to the nominating process.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, they will pay no
attention, I take it, in the sense that there will be
nothing indicating an official nomination on the ballot
itself. But as I -- I am also assuming that the parties
through a convention, or whatever other scheme they can
come up with, can -- can designate an official nominee
quite independently of this ballot. And if they do so
designate, they can campaign on that person's behalf.
The person in campaigning can say, I am the official
nominee of the X party. And those facts are true,
aren't they?
MR. WHITE: They are, Your Honor, but that
converts the right to nominate to a mere right to
endorse, and this Court has recognized that the ability
to endorse a candidate is no substitute --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You're saying that a right
to nominate has to be a right to exclude everyone from
the ballot except the nominee -- everyone from the
ballot under that banner, from the nominee.
MR. WHITE: To be -- to be a meaningful
right to nominate, yes, Your Honor. It --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where does that right
come from? I thought in Jones, the Court had said if
you had just a blanket primary, with no indication of
party affiliation, that that would be constitutional.
And if that's so, then parties don't have any right to
have a candidate.
MR. WHITE: I'm not suggesting that the
parties have a constitutional right to place their party
name on a truly nonpartisan ballot, and I think what the
Jones Court was hypothesizing was the true nonpartisan
primary where there are no party identifications. Our
objection is not to a -- necessarily to a nonpartisan
ballot. It's to a partisan ballot where the State is
going to put someone else on that ballot using our
party's name and competing against our nominee under --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you would have no
objection if this - everything was the same, except no
party affiliation were shown.
MR. WHITE: That --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That would be
constitutional?
MR. WHITE: That would not violate our First
Amendment rights, Your Honor. Washington --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question?
It's hypothetical, I suppose, but supposing the statute
further provided that a candidate may not designate a
preference unless he has been a registered member of
that party for at least a year, and otherwise the
statute is exactly how it is now. Would that be
constitutional?
MR. WHITE: No, Your Honor, because the
State is still then resolving what is an internal
factional fight between real Republicans using a blanket
ballot where voters from rival parties are able to
determine --
JUSTICE STEVENS: In my hypothesis the
person is a real Republican. He is just not the one
selected as the candidate.
MR. WHITE: That's correct, Your Honor, but
then the blanket is still selecting which Republican
advances to the general election.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well then, it's not just a
rhetorical flourish. It's true; when the State says
that you take the position that you are entitled to say
on the ballot who your nominee is, that has to be a
correct statement of your position given this statute
and given the issues presented to us here.
MR. WHITE: I'm -- I'm not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or is that just somewhat
hyperbolic? It seems to me he is right based on your --
on the position you're now stating.
MR. WHITE: The political parties have the
right to nominate their candidate and restrict the use
of the party name to candidates who have been authorized
to use that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't understand you to
say that you have a right to a partisan process in which
your -- only your nominee is shown. I thought you're
saying that if it is a process in which party
affiliation is shown, then your endorsed candidate
should be set aside somehow.
MR. WHITE: That, that -- that is our -- is
our position, Justice Scalia. We are not suggesting we
have a right to a partisan process. Washington's
constitution makes its legislative elections a partisan
process, but once the State has decided to use partisan
identification as the sole information that's presented
on the ballot, it is telling the voters that this is the
most important thing for you to be considering when you
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: Even if the information is
by statute true, in my hypothetical he must be a member,
but still you make the same objections.
MR. WHITE: Yes, Your Honor. As this Court
pointed out in Jones with the comparison of the Mario
Cuomo/Edward Koch race, it is for the political parties
to be able to resolve that internal party competition.
Initiative 872 still uses blank --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You're stating to suppress
information. So the plaintiff says there is nothing to
prevent the nominee or the convention from publicizing
widely the fact that the convention picked me as their
standard bearer. The fact that some other member of the
party gets his name on the ballot doesn't prevent the
public from being informed about the truth, does it?
MR. WHITE: Perhaps I misunderstood your
question, Justice Stevens. The Republican Party would
not prevent the unsuccessful candidate from running in
the election. He could run --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It would prevent him from
running and saying he is a Republican.
MR. WHITE: On -- having him listed on the
ballot where the State is indicating that that is the
most important information to consider, the partisan
affiliation, and the State has hypothesized through the
Grange reply brief that there are all these other
possible formulations to ballot. However, before the
Ninth Circuit, in the State's petition appendix at page
24a, the Ninth Circuit squarely put to the State's
attorney the question: How would candidates be
designated on the ballot where you had two Republicans
who had competed against each other in the party's
nominating process, and one had been selected; and a
third candidate who had absolutely no affiliation with
the party also entered the race. And the State told the
Ninth Circuit yes, they would be identified identically
on the ballot.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose there were an
empirical study that Washington voters know about this
system, and that 80 percent of the Washington voters
know that the party has not endorsed any one of these --
all of these candidates. That it's just say a statement
of preference, that that's all it means; the voters know
this. Is your position the same?
MR. WHITE: Yes, Your Honor. The notion
that disclaimers are necessary, and the State indicates
that they will spend a million dollars to try to clear
this up, is evidence of the confusion that's likely to
occur. But even if the State does come forward and put
all these disclaimers and preferences on, what the State
is essentially doing on the ballot is masking who the
Republican Party's nominee is by the presence of other
candidates --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but my submission,
or my hypothetical and it's just a hypothetical, is that
no one is misled by this.
MR. WHITE: Do we know --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Accept the hypothetical as
true. Then what's the injury?
MR. WHITE: The interest then is that you
still have two Republican-identified candidates who are
purporting to carry the party's message to the voters,
and the voters are resolving that intra-party
competition.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you have, for
example, a disclaimer, it seems to me that undermines
your argument that they are successfully, anyway,
purporting to carry the party's message.
MR. WHITE: Well, if you have the
disclaimer, Your Honor, and the statements that this
doesn't really mean anything, then you would come to the
question of what legitimate State interest is being
advanced by having someone put Republican on the ballot
as their party preference, when it in fact means
nothing; it does not mean they are associated with the
party. It does not mean --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does one associate --
this one -- I think General McKenna told us that in the
State of Washington people do not register membership in
one party or the other, so how does the Republican Party
determine who is a Republican?
MR. WHITE: At -- do you mean a legitimate
Republican candidate? Or --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, who do you consider a
member of the party? If you say I am a Republican in
the State of Washington, what does that mean? It
doesn't mean I registered Republican because Washington
doesn't register people by party.
MR. WHITE: The three political parties each
have different definitions and ways to become -- ways to
become affiliated with the party. Under the Republican
Party rules if you identify yourself to the Republican
Party that yes, I am a Republican, you attend our caucus
and convention system, you contribute funds to the
party, you can be a member of the Republican Party. The
Libertarians --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Any one of those,
contributing funds is enough? You don't have to go to
the convention if you are --
MR. WHITE: You don't have to go to the
convention, but there is also a difference there between
being a rank-and-file member and being a spokesman of
the party. I'd like to turn to the Libertarians,
though, for instance. The Libertarians require you to
sign a membership application and all members of the
Libertarian Party in Washington must sign a pledge that
they oppose the use of force in the resolution of
political disputes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Libertarians have a
lot more rules than the other parties.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOUTER: You -- you have identified
-- in the course of your argument, you've identified two
separate problems with the -- with the scheme as you see
it. One is, as you put it, that it masks the identity
of an official nominee, and the other is that it in
effect allows competition on the ballot by a person
under the same party banner with the official nominee.
MR. WHITE: Yes. After the party has
already resolved its internal disputes and determined
who its spokesman will be, the State allows --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Right.
MR. WHITE: -- any candidate to appropriate
the name and compete against our nominee.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I -- I -- no, I understand
that to be your position, but my question is, and I
realize there is a certain awkwardness to this, but we
-- we've got to face it: If the masking of the identity
of the candidate is the real flaw, then the -- the
hypothetical that was included in the -- in Jones, in
the dictum, of the -- of the party that -- of the ballot
that has no party identification whatsoever, that would
equally be bad, wouldn't it?
MR. WHITE: No, Your Honor, because what it
is, in this instance, Initiative 872 is a partisan
primary that would mask the identity of the party
nominee.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But if it's the masking
that's the problem, the -- the nominee is going to be
just as well masked on the ballot or better masked on
the ballot that allows no statement of preference at
all.
MR. WHITE: No, Justice --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And -- and I'm not saying
that that's fatally your case, but I mean it's -- it's
something we need to be careful about when we're doing
our thinking, and that's why I'm pressing you on it.
MR. WHITE: Well -- and I think it's -- it's
the masking in the context of a partisan system. The
State may elect to have nonpartisan offices, and many
local offices throughout the West are nonpartisan.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But if -- but if it's just
masking in a partisan system, then it seems to me you're
making the same argument that you make when you say, by
allowing statements of preference, we obscure the
character of the official nominee and in effect allow
somebody to have a -- a second shot at -- at getting
Republican support as a Republican.
It seems to me that if it's masking in a
partisan ballot that's the real problem, there's only
one objection and the objection is not so much the
masking as it is the submergence of the official
nomination by allowing competition under the party's
name by another candidate. Isn't that fair to say?
MR. WHITE: I -- I think, Justice Souter,
that it -- that it is two separate inquiries. First you
have the difficulty that as a practical matter these
candidates will be identified as Republican nominees or
Republican candidates, but even if the State were able
to posit sufficient disclaimers and caveats, that the
State has shown no valid interest in allowing a
candidate to use the name --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, but don't you think
it's relevant information? Wouldn't a voter like to
know whether a person preferred the Democrats or the
Republicans?
MR. WHITE: Well, it's -- it's relevant
information, Justice Stevens, only to the extent that it
connects the candidate.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Only if true.
MR. WHITE: To -- to the extent it connects
the candidate to the political party and its positions
on the issues. And as the State points out in its reply
brief --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask this question:
This is a facial challenge, is it not?
MR. WHITE: Yes, it is, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And what exactly -- what
relief did the district court grant? Did he enjoin the
entire blanket primary or just the designation of
parties?
MR. WHITE: The district court enjoined the
entirety of Initiative 872 because it determined that
the party preference provisions of Initiative 872 were
not severable under Washington State's test for
severability.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you think that was the
narrowest relief he could have granted to avoid the
constitutional difficulty that you see?
MR. WHITE: I -- I think that was the -- I
think that was the appropriate, and it is a narrow
relief. The court looked at the structure of the
initiative, the connection of the party preference, and
the party preference provisions permeate Initiative 872,
and determined that severability was not appropriate.
Yes, I do, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you think it would be
administerable if it was severed, if the preference
provision was just deleted?
MR. WHITE: I'm not -- I'm not sure that it
would, Your Honor. I'm not sure that it would because
-- and what the State and the Grange argued below is
that -- they actually argued for severance because that
would then convert Initiative 872 into a truly
nonpartisan primary, but that's not what was on the
ballot. If you take a look at -- it's JA 400.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm confused about the
difference between a facial challenge and an as-applied
challenge. On the one hand, it's very helpful to you.
There's no evidence out there that this has ever -- this
has ever been a problem, so you've got to attack it
right away, but then you have this relief that basically
enjoins the whole -- whole procedure.
MR. WHITE: Well, the Court asked General
McKenna a question during his argument about whether the
problem had ever occurred with a false-flag candidate
capturing a party's name on the ballot. It has not
under Initiative 872 because it was enjoined before
being effective. But at page JA 239 there's testimony
that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but it also seems
highly improbable if you have a nominee as a result of a
convention, everybody reads the newspapers, they know
who the Republican nominee is, that there's going to be
such confusion that everybody thinks it's one or two of
the other people who also put an R after their name.
The likelihood of massive confusion seems highly
improbable to me. I mean you -- you have your own
convention where you nominate the Republican nominee,
your preferred candidate, and that's publicized
generally throughout the State, and you're concerned
that somebody going into the ballot box won't -- won't
understand what's been going on.
MR. WHITE: Your Honor, it's -- the State
has indicated that our nominee, the unsuccessful nominee
and the false-flag candidate would all be listed on the
ballot identically. The --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But, again, the ballot's
not the only information available to voters when they
go into the polls.
MR. WHITE: No, but it's the only
information presented to the -- the voters at the
critical moment when they're casting their ballot, and
as this Court has noted in -- with respect to term
limits or provision of truthful information regarding
race on a ballot, a State cannot put its thumbs on the
electoral scales by favoring one group of candidates
over another.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose you could say the
same thing about the candidates' party preferences.
They can make that known to the voters in the newspapers
when they run.
MR. WHITE: That's -- that's exactly the
case, Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't have the Republican
Party endorsement, but I prefer the Republican Party.
MR. WHITE: And with respect to the
importance of party designations and party information
on the ballot, last term the Chief Justice, in Wisconsin
Right to Life, ordered a study that showed that 85
percent of voters couldn't name a single candidate for
the United States House of Representatives in their own
district, but the -- the voters know the political
parties. The political parties spent, in our case, a
century and a half and, in the Democratic Party's case,
200 years developing a message and developing a set of
principles with which the parties are associated, and --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What would be the validity
or the invalidity, in your view, of a scheme which said
that the ballot has one candidate who says, Smith,
Republican nominee, and the other candidates -- other
candidates say, Republican preference?
MR. WHITE: I think the question there, Your
Honor, is what is the legitimate interest of the State
in putting that information on the ballot? At -- their
reply brief at page 6, the State says an independent who
does share the views of either the Republican or
Democratic Party may prefer the Republican Party. That
preference may be because that independent is running in
a district that's 70 percent Republican. And the
question is, what is the legitimate interest of the
State in providing that information that says, I prefer
the Republican Party, where it connotes no connotation,
no --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You -- you can't answer my
question? You can't hypothesize any legitimate State
interest for doing that?
MR. WHITE: I -- I cannot, Your Honor,
because either -- if there is legitimate State interest,
the interest is in providing information about that
candidate's positions and linkages to the Republican
Party by saying, my preference is Republican because I
believe what the Republicans are, whether that candidate
is David Duke, in the Republican case, or in the case of
the Democrats, a Lyndon LaRouche candidate.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, when the Court
writes this opinion, what's the fairest statement of the
State's interest in this requirement? What do you think
is the fairest statement of the State's interest?
MR. WHITE: I think the fairest -- the
fairest statement of the State interest would be that
the State has no interest in creating the impression of
false associations or allowing opportunistic candidates
to appropriate the political party --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You think there's no
legitimate interest? It's -- it's an unfair question, I
suppose.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought you said the
State's interest was to -- to do what we disapproved in
Jones without seeming to do what we disapproved in
Jones.
MR. WHITE: That -- that would be an
acceptable phrasing of the State's interest as well,
Justice Scalia.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm going to ask the
State the same question.
MR. WHITE: If there are no further
questions, Initiative 872 is unconstitutional and the
judgment of the lower court should be affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. White.
General McKenna, you have 4 minutes
relating.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT McKENNA
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS.
MR. McKENNA: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
First of all, Justice Kennedy, the State's
interest is what we have said it is all along. It is to
convey some information on the ballot in the same way
that the party label does. I have noticed that the
political parties have never objected to having their
nominees listed on the ballot as -- you know, as such.
In this case it's an expression of party
preference, to be sure, and nothing more than that; and
there is useful information which is conveyed. We are
not required to allow it, but the voters have chosen to
allow it.
JUSTICE ALITO: Can I ask you to clarify
something you said during your initial argument? I
understood you to say that the sample ballot on page 1
of the Grange reply would be unconstitutional.
MR. McKENNA: No, Your Honor. I did not say
that it would be unconstitutional. I said that that
would be a different argument. It might be a more
difficult argument. The Ninth Circuit assumed that that
is what the ballot would look like, even though there
was not basis for the Ninth Circuit reaching that
conclusion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe I'm wrong. I
thought you did say it would be unconstitutional.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I did, too.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And could you --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You should have said that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean how would you
defend that? I mean --
MR. McKENNA: Well, I would defend it, Your
Honor, by saying that this is a facial challenge. Let's
apply it. And if there is evidence --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we are
assuming it is applied in the way that is shown on the
Grange reply brief at page 1. If it were applied in
that way, would that be unconstitutional? It just says
R or D.
MR. McKENNA: It would -- it could be
unconstitutional, Mr. Chief Justice, if there were
evidence that the voters were misled or confused.
Mr. Chief Justice, this is an excellent
opportunity to point out that the letter after the name,
whether it's the letter as on page one of the Grange
ballot or an expression of party preference on pages two
and three, is not the only information on the ballot.
As we've shown in the samples, there will be
lots of other information on the ballot which clearly
distinguishes the expression of party preference.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't it also true that,
by hypothesis, there will be other candidates beside the
one R and the one D? If there aren't at least two R's
and two D's, there is no problem.
MR. McKENNA: In the scenario or the ballot
on page 1, Justice Stevens, I believe that what would
happen is the Secretary of State would still provide the
additional language. If that additional language is not
provided, if it were just that bare ballot with no
explanatory language, then, yes, it would be much harder
to defend as being constitutional. But that, in fact,
is not the way it's going to work.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But my point is there
could never be a ballot just like this, what your
opponents are talking about, because there are always
going to be at least two or three R's and two or three
D's. And the sample shows there is only one, which must
then be the party chosen -- I mean the nominee chosen at
the convention.
MR. McKENNA: But the key here, Your Honor,
is that even under the ballot on page one, what is not
happening under top- two is that the nominee of the
party is not being selected. That's not happening any
more. And in Jones the Court said that the top-two is
the same in all characteristics save one, which is the
result of the nominee not being selected.
And that is exactly what is happening under
top-two: The nominee is not being selected; and, as
applied, we are going to be providing lots of other
information on the ballot to make it very clear what the
expression "party preference" means.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does the State have a
legitimate interest in weakening the influence of
political parties?
MR. McKENNA: No, Your Honor, it does not.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we found that that was
the necessary effect of this ballot measure, then would
it be invalid?
MR. McKENNA: I think Your Honor you would
have to find there is a severe burden on the parties and
subject the provision to party presence to strict
scrutiny. It would be receiver -- Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If the state has no
legitimate interest it's going to fail any level of
scrutiny.
MR. McKENNA: It has legitimate interest
indicating something about party on the ballot. This,
the same legitimate interest that occurs in a nominating
primary where the, where the party, where all the
candidates who have filed under that office are going to
miss the party in terms of conveying our -- on the
question of receiveribility I think Washington law
applies here the McGowan three-part test which is
paralleled under Federal severability and booker simply
states that an act or statute is not unconstitutional no
its entirety unless it's believed the voters would not
have passed one without the other or unless the
validation party to accomplish the legislative purposes
clearly understands in this case the main purpose was to
preserve choice. It was called the People's Choice
Initiative. Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, general.
The case is submitted.
(Wherupon, at 10:53 a.m. the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
al 1:7,9,13 3:5,7 51:5 assurance 4:7 44:11,22 45:2
33:24 Alito 5:4,25 6:12 48:11 42:10 48:23,24 49:1
11:14,19 16:25 approach 13:13 attack 42:13 49:7,11,16,23
51:17 Alito's 6:21 38:15 41:18,22 37:10 ballots 4:3,4,9
5:22 17:13 argue 16:7 29:8 30:1,3 11:20 18:19,19
39:23 47:14,15 argued 42:4,5 34:22 ballot's 43:15
7:24 8:1 22:19 2:2,5,8 3:3,9 25:21 29:18 38:10
5:5 7:7 15:22 39:21 42:17 available 43:16 bases 19:4
39:22 40:5,13 aside 33:8 aware 13:20 42:14
39:8 assertion 24:21 a.m 1:20 3:2 47:25
17:17,19 36:19 B 2:4,7,10 3:10
amount 14:22 15:19 36:17 bad 38:25 believe 7:6,13
29:14,16 analysis 27:15 44:19 balance 19:15 9:9 27:10
Anderson 7:9 associating ballot 3:23 4:5 believed 51:8
10:7 23:22 8:11,15,19,20 8:25 9:15,18 best 7:15
3:24 4:2 15:18 18:7,14 20:2 blanket 3:17 6:6
37:8 1:21 46:5 25:8 26:16,20 32:5,12 41:7
17:10 appendix 4:18 27:7,7 30:4,8,19,20 box 4:25 5:2
31:1,15 7:4 26:21 assumed 16:8,10 31:6,10,10,11 43:9
34:17 34:20 47:23 32:6,17 33:15 Boy 15:5,11,14
application assumes 4:3 34:6,15,19,23 15:17,18,19,23
41:1 44:24 46:5 Chief 3:3,11 4:6 36:13 33:12
48:14 49:4 51:2 4:19 9:7 13:21 comes 17:19 constitutional
15:5 20:8,15 47:4 48:2,5,7 competed 34:24 contemplated
47:11 51:11,15 51:12,12 33:24 36:6 28:19
30:10 cases 7:17,19 choose 15:8 22:4 concern 13:11 contribute
9:5 13:5 cast 23:13,19 23:10 concerned 8:2 contributing
4:22,23 caucus 22:17 26:20 concluded 23:10 convention
37:10 chose 5:19 conclusion 4:3 10:17,19 23:16
8:1,3,4,12 caveats 40:12 chosen 5:16,24 26:18 48:1 24:18 25:17,17
10:6,14 Celebrezze 7:9 17:13 18:7 conduct 25:24 29:12,17 30:6
12:6,13 13:10 22:16 47:14 conducting 34:3,4 37:11
14:18 Cellebreze 49:20,20 29:18 37:16,18 42:25
17:2,5,8 19:13 Circuit 3:20 4:1 confused 15:24 43:6 49:21
19:9 century 44:17 16:8 27:6 19:2 26:25 conventions
24:25 certain 22:25,25 34:20,21 35:3 42:9 48:19 24:14 25:24
28:13 23:2 38:19 47:23,25 confusion 35:15 28:18
31:3,23 cetera 5:14 Circuit's 4:2 43:2,4 convert 42:6
33:7 chairman 13:4 cite 25:19 connection converts 28:8
35:1 challenge 7:17 claim 19:8,18,19 41:20 30:14
38:15,21 41:3 42:10,11 24:19,20 25:1 connects 40:21 convey 5:6 47:7
48:10 25:4 27:5 40:23 conveyed 47:13
43:7,13 challenges 7:18 claiming 14:13 connotation conveying 51:3
45:20 chance 13:24 14:14 15:25 45:10 copies 29:23
change 6:3 20:3 26:18,24 connotes 45:10 correct 4:11
8:22 character 39:23 clarify 47:16 consider 18:24 13:12,23 18:3
14:6 characteristic clear 35:14 50:7 34:16 37:1 18:11 25:6
26:9 6:10 clearly 26:23 consideration 32:11,18
29:2 characteristics 27:10 49:1 17:23 corrected 4:18
33:1 7:1 50:2 51:11 considering corresponded
35:9,20 check 4:24 5:2 close 17:6 26:2 33:16 29:17
40:10,11 25:19 come 10:13 30:7 consolidated 3:5 counsel 23:8,22
44:2,23 checked 25:15 30:24 35:16 constitution count 23:12,19
declaring 4:21 41:16 4:5,8,11 6:8 etcetera 14:18
29:17 28:22 8:9 16:14,17,20 17:20
38:5 definitions 37:7 46:11,12 25:15 26:4 42:25 43:2
4:12 8:14 Democrat 5:14 15:20 19:21 34:11 13:16,17,25
14:21 12:6,7 disavows 10:9 elections 29:18 27:5 35:15
19:12,13 Democratic disclaimer 36:8 33:12 42:12 48:11,19
28:5 3:15 8:6 10:16 36:12 electoral 43:24 exact 7:23
31:7 10:21 12:8 disclaimers eliminated 3:16 exactly 10:22
41:6,9 13:6,6 16:21 35:13,17 40:12 emergency 14:20 16:10
42:16 16:22 20:5 disclaims 10:3 14:10 32:1 41:5 44:5
45:23 22:17 23:24 disociate 8:1 empirical 35:6 50:4
50:1 27:1 29:15 disprove 13:2 endorse 14:23 example 15:4
Democrats 38:12 endorsed 33:7 22:18,24 23:15
31:23 district 4:12 enjoined 4:12 exist 28:25
44:10 dollars 35:14 entire 12:24 explanation
developing D's 49:6,19 equally 11:7,10 49:12
33:13 devised 24:8 equivalent 19:7
difference 6:5,7 earliest 5:17 2:6,9 24:24 27:20
9:5 12:14 42:10 effect 38:9 39:23 established 10:8 19:13
13:5 different 37:7 50:14 11:17 28:8 expresses 5:11
21:24 47:22 effective 42:21 establishing 10:3 23:6
47:23 elect 39:17 et 1:7,9,13 3:5,7 9:21 11:11
flourish 32:15 given 5:18 22:25 hatred 14:1 38:22
7:7,21 followed 3:14 go 11:13 20:5,17 help 15:4 I
17:14 force 37:24 24:18,20,22 helpful 20:12,15 idea 24:22
19:25 forced 8:15,19 37:15,17 43:17 42:11 identical 29:19
26:15,16 foreign 25:10 goals 22:6 highly 42:24 identically 35:3
48:23 form 4:16,21 going 4:9 5:8 43:4 43:14
50:8 5:22 12:1,15 7:23 9:8 15:19 historical 6:19 identification
20:3 29:11 31:11 holding 3:21 31:8
48:10 forum 5:22 gotten 23:5 4:19 5:15 6:4 identify 21:14
27:2,9 found 8:14 29:16 9:24 10:10,15 identifying 10:5
34:4,5 50:13 Grange 1:3 3:4 10:23 11:9,16 identity 38:7,20
49:13 four 29:19 6:13,15,25 9:3 11:22 12:11,21 39:3
great 8:8 32:3,11 33:21 44:10
G 3:1 27:16 39:1 41:4,23 17:22 18:15
46:5 6:8 9:14 10:12 guess 12:19,23 45:1,15 47:20 34:16
17:8,19,25 50:12,16,19 improbable
14:7 9:17 17:25 hard 7:13 hypothesized 25:21 28:13
19:5 18:3,12,22 harder 16:7 34:17 45:3,6
26:19 19:5 30:23 49:12 hypothesizing independently
40:8 31:13,17 36:19 harmed 7:20 31:7 30:8
37:1,14 harmonize hypothetical independents
46:3,4,8,11,15 14:5,16,21 32:14,21 35:5 48:10
50:23,25 16:2,13,16,23 45:12,23 46:7 50:21
34:15 interference 18:11,22 19:4 key 49:22 37:23
26:7 19:17,23 20:4 Kirkland 1:24 Libertarians
intra-party 36:5 22:3,7,11,12 13:7 20:4,7,8 Lieberman
invalidity 44:21 24:2,8 25:4,6,7 24:9 27:15 life 12:7,24
9:20 28:7 32:19 27:25 28:4,11 known 44:3 limit 5:9,13
13:8 40:25 28:21 29:6,11 Koch 33:23 13:13
18:13 30:2,17,23 limited 14:22
33:14,18 J 31:13,17,21 L 26:9
40:16 J 1:24 2:6 28:2 32:8,14,21 label 47:8 limits 43:22
43:16,19 JA 42:8,21 33:3,10,18 labels 28:19 linkages 45:18
44:10 JA-363 28:16 34:1,9,12 35:5 laid 9:4 list 15:8
47:7 JA-415 12:12 35:21,25 36:7 language 9:5 listed 18:17
48:24 JOHN 1:24 2:6 36:19 37:1,14 20:2 49:10,10 34:14 43:13
50:7 28:2 38:1,4,14,17 49:12 47:10
5:1 6:2 6:11 26:11 42:9,23 43:15 law 10:17 11:1 longer 3:19 6:9
20:1 28:22 30:24 44:1,6,7,11,20 13:22 15:1 look 4:4,9,15 9:8
28:8 31:7 33:22 45:12,23 46:7 16:24 24:2 9:10,16,18,25
33:25 38:22 46:12,13 46:10,16,18,23 27:11 51:4 16:8,10 22:6
41:10,11 50:1 47:4,5,16 48:2 laws 22:24 26:21 42:8
42:6 JR 1:24 2:6 28:2 48:4,5,6,7,12 left 5:2 24:6 47:24
46:21 judgment 46:22 48:18,20 49:3 legal 23:8 looked 16:3
Justice 3:3,11 49:8,15 50:9 legislative 33:12 41:19
39:2 9:17,22 10:1,7 K 36:24 45:1,8 Lyndon 45:22
10:25 11:4,6 Keeping 21:15 50:10,21,23,25 M
40:13 12:4,12,19,22 13:25 14:5,16 letters 25:20 mail 11:23,25
12:25 13:16,18 14:21 15:1 29:19,24,25 18:21
23:1 43:5 48:7,8 moved 15:5 25:2 28:25 15:6 22:15
30:21 N 2:1,1 3:1 33:5 34:3 official 10:14
39:5,16 member 11:2 48:21 50:3,5 25:19
40:1,4 14:10,10,14 names 5:9 nominees 3:19 of-association
22:1 37:19 nearly 11:23,24 nonmembers 12:10 28:21
51:17 members 37:22 necessarily 26:12 old 4:20 6:6 24:2
2:3,9 3:8 mere 28:9 30:14 50:14 39:18 42:7 once 5:6,7 33:13
4:10 merely 10:19 need 39:13 notarized 12:14 open 20:1
6:4,15,20 19:25 27:20 neither 5:2 12:16 operate 25:22
7:16 8:10 meshes 22:22 never 47:9 49:16 noted 43:21 opinion 45:24
message 36:4,10 new 22:22 noticed 47:8 opponents 49:17
44:18 newspapers notion 35:12 opportunistic
messengers 28:6 42:25 44:3 November 3:19 46:5
28:9 Ninth 3:20 4:1,2 no-new-taxes opportunities
14:5 met 23:20 16:8 27:6 5:13 13:7,10 14:25
15:3 method 28:24 34:20,21 35:3 no-taxes 8:3 opportunity
16:6,15 million 35:14 47:23,25 number 22:14 4:13,17,24 8:7
17:12,21 mind 20:21 nominate 8:22 8:21 48:21
18:2,11 21:15 30:14,18,22 O oppose 37:24
20:11 minor 22:25 32:25 43:6 O 2:1 3:1 option 18:8
21:3,10 minutes 46:25 nominating 4:4 object 13:7 oral 1:18 2:2,5
22:3,10 misimpression 6:6 16:11 objected 47:9 3:9 28:2
23:8 15:16 23:15 24:13,18 objecting 8:15 ordered 44:12
25:6 mislead 27:21 25:3 27:8 8:16 organization
misled 35:23 28:18 30:1 objection 31:9 15:9,10
36:20 48:19 34:25 50:25 31:14 40:3,3
46:25 mistaken 18:23 nomination objections 33:20 P
48:9 mistakenly 25:17 26:8 obscure 39:22 P 3:1
49:7,22 18:24 29:7,8,16,22 obtaining 23:2 page 2:2 9:13
misunderstood 30:4 40:5 occur 35:16 16:4,9 26:21
21:18 modified 29:3 29:13 occurs 50:25 45:3 47:18
26:24 moment 43:20 nominee 7:4 October 1:16 48:14,22 49:8
21:15,18,19,22 35:7 44:13 47:9 50:11 13:15 35:17
23:7,13,14,24 percentage 23:2 posit 40:12 preferred 9:23
31:1,5,8,15,25 14:14 17:4 33:10 35:11 50:18
34:9 35:2,8 24:22 27:1 positions 12:8 33:14 43:19
37:2,5,8,9,10 38:9 40:17 possible 6:3 pressing 39:14
8:9,21 37:12,12,20,23 personal 3:22 23:18 34:19 prevent 11:1
14:22 38:10,11,23,24 person's 30:9 pox 22:2 14:4 34:3,6,10
23:1,1 39:3 40:24 petition 34:20 practical 17:22 34:12
26:5,6 41:11,20,21 Petitioner 1:4 17:24 18:15 prevented 11:10
44:2,8,8,10,10 Petitioners 1:10 23:11 29:6 primary 3:18
28:9 30:5 45:5,5,10,19 1:23 2:4,10 40:9 6:7 7:2,3 16:11
32:6,24 46:6 47:8,11 3:10 47:3 preached 14:1 16:17 17:3
37:6 48:23 49:2,20 phrase 5:10 predicting 19:1 24:3 27:9
41:8 49:25 50:8,18 phrasing 7:23 prefer 12:9 13:5 28:20 29:4,23
50:24 51:1,3 46:15 20:5,17,21 30:25 31:8
50:11,17 51:10 pick 5:10 21:18,22 22:1 39:3 41:7 42:7
22:23 19:9 22:5 place 26:19 31:5 44:8 45:5,9 primary's 7:4
31:10 23:13 25:10 plaintiff 34:2 preference 3:23 principles 44:19
26:13,17 28:6 please 3:12 10:7 4:25 5:5,20 7:7 print 18:18
39:2,16 28:18 29:4 28:5 7:21 8:12 9:21 problem 28:25
40:2 31:12 34:24 pledge 37:23 10:3,9,20 11:3 39:6 40:2
40:5 42:19 16:11 18:1 14:6,13 15:7,9 problems 38:6
5:8 44:17 22:18 48:21 15:11,23 16:13 procedure 42:15
7:7,21,25 passed 51:9 49:15 16:21 17:5,11 procedures 24:5
8:5,6,6,16 pay 28:17 30:1,2 pointed 28:16 17:13,18 18:14 24:13 28:14
pays 29:8 33:22 18:17,24 19:2 process 6:8
10:2,5,8 people 15:18 pointing 26:3 19:8,8 20:1,12 23:15 25:3
11:3 17:13 20:16 points 40:25 21:4 23:6 26:8 27:17
12:8,9 21:4,5 22:9,19 policies 22:5 24:24 25:8 29:22 30:1
14:3,3 26:6,9,25 policy 8:13 26:15,16 27:21 33:4,6,11,13
27:17 36:21 political 3:24 31:24 35:10 34:25
15:7 37:5 43:3 5:22 10:5 36:16 39:8,22 produce 18:19
People's 51:12 15:10 22:24 41:11,20,21,25 products 27:16
18:14 percent 11:24 27:17 28:9,23 44:24 45:6,19 promulgate
19:18 11:25 18:20 32:24 33:23 47:12 48:23 4:13,17
21:14,16 23:3 37:6,25 40:24 49:2 50:8 promulgated
23:5,20 24:17 44:15,16 46:6 preferences 11:17
30:8 regarding 43:22 34:23 40:18 ROBERTS 3:3
22:9 36:21 Republican-id... 15:15 16:2,13
49:9 R 3:1 24:22 43:3 registered 31:24 require 18:16 25:7 26:23
31:23 race 33:23 35:2 registration required 5:21 38:1 46:23
43:23 21:16 22:10 17:15 22:20 48:2,5,7,12
50:6 rank-and-file 9:6 11:17 requirement rule 24:15,16
43:22 rationale 28:21 17:24 requires 12:13 rules 14:10
reaching 47:25 reject 24:23 requiring 11:2 24:13 25:22
reads 42:25 relevant 7:6 resolution 37:24 38:2
32:5,9 38:21 relief 41:6,15,19 resolved 38:12 22:15,15 34:11
34:7 realize 38:19 remedy 14:16 36:5 running 20:22
23:7 26:18 40:25 45:3 respectfully R's 49:5,18
7:6 17:1 reason 18:16,18 Representatives Respondents S
reasonably 44:14 1:25 2:7 23:22 S 2:1 3:1
reasons 4:2 9:14 responsive 21:7 14:11 19:6
31:11 2:8 47:2 1:13 3:5,6 5:14 result 42:24 samples 12:2
35:16 receive 12:1 8:5,24,25 12:9 50:3 48:25
38:7 received 29:19 13:4 16:18,19 rhetorical 32:15 save 7:2 50:2
29:23 20:18 23:4,6,7 right 10:11 saying 4:23 5:13
10:25 recognize 21:2 34:13 35:19 30:17,18,22,23 39:11 45:19
21:7 recognized 13:9 36:15,22,23,25 31:2,5 32:22 48:10
27:19 17:23 19:12 37:2,4,8,9,10 32:25 33:4,11 says 17:5 21:25
34:9,22 30:15 37:12 39:25,25 38:14 42:14 25:13 32:15
38:18 record 6:19 7:20 40:10,11 43:1 44:12 34:2 44:22
42:17 25:19 43:6 44:7,8,23 rights 15:18 45:3,9 48:15
45:8,13 refer 9:2 12:12 44:24 45:4,5,7 26:5 31:20 scales 43:24
51:4 referenced 7:8 45:10,18,19,21 rival 32:6 Scalia 7:22 8:10
9:22 10:1 set 33:8 44:18 speak 8:16 statement 6:25 submission
12:4 severability specific 13:20 10:5,20 14:13 35:21
41:13,22 51:6 speech 13:13,14 18:4,24 19:2,3 submitted 51:15
19:17,23 severable 41:12 14:8,17 15:12 19:8,9 22:12 51:17
24:8 severance 42:5 15:13 32:18 35:9 subset 20:13
severe 50:17 spend 14:23 39:8 45:24 substitute 30:16
44:1,7 severed 41:25 35:14 46:1,3 successfully
48:4 share 45:4 spent 44:16 statements 36:9
shot 39:24 split 25:8 13:12 16:14 sufficient 40:12
38:6 44:12 squarely 34:21 states 1:1,19 suggesting 31:4
shown 19:5 27:9 stage 6:8 24:20 11:3 14:1 33:10
33:5,7 40:13 34:5 statewide 23:3 18:9
48:13,25 standardbear... state's 5:17 support 8:22
side 16:7 17:7 stands 17:8 34:20,21 41:12 suppose 11:8
37:23 3:4,5,6,22 4:12 46:15 47:5 31:22 35:5
11:18 simply 5:6 20:10 10:17,19 11:1 32:23 34:1 suppress 34:1
28:15,16 27:7 51:6 11:18,18,23 status 21:25 Supreme 1:1,19
single 26:20 12:5,9 13:4 statute 23:11,12 sure 42:2,3
44:13 15:6 16:23 31:22 32:1,18 47:12
41:16 44:22 21:13,16 22:11 Stevens 6:12,16 4:5,8 6:3,5,6
28:9,12 somebody 5:11 25:15,19 26:7 11:5,6,12 26:4 29:12
23:6 39:24 26:15,19 28:15 13:16 31:21 35:7 37:11
29:3 somewhat 32:21 29:23 31:10 34:1,9,12 systemic 20:25
34:25 sorry 11:13 32:4,15 33:13 40:15,20,22 22:1
50:3,5 source 13:8 34:15,17 35:2 41:2,5,14,24
26:13 Souter 10:12,16 36:14,21 37:3 49:3,8,15 T 2:1,1
10:24 20:4,15 38:13 39:17 strict 50:18 take 4:7 10:22
30:3 25:4,6 28:11 45:13,16 46:3 study 35:6 44:12 talking 8:18,19
38:6 30:2,17 38:4 50:9,20 subjective 13:1 Tashjian 7:8
38:14,17 39:5 stated 6:14 submergence 13:9
true 12:15,18 37:24 40:14 3:5,6,6 9:15 widely 34:4
47:4 truly 31:6 42:6 v 1:5,11 3:4,6,15 36:21 37:3,4 wished 5:19
truth 12:5 34:7 7:9 15:5 19:13 37:23 41:12 words 5:18 16:3
44:2 truthfully 25:1 validated 26:11 Washington's work 49:14
trying 17:10 validity 44:20 33:11 world 20:7,9
turn 37:20 value 26:11 wasn't 5:25 21:9 22:8
21:1 two 4:1 9:4,12 versus 8:13 way 5:24 8:11 wouldn't 38:25
9:18 16:20 view 5:11 26:3 16:3 21:9 40:16
23:3 19:4 34:23 44:21 23:12,18 47:7 writes 45:24
27:1,14 36:3 38:5 40:8 views 45:4 48:13,15 49:14 wrong 4:1 48:2
36:20 43:2 48:23 vindicates 26:5 ways 15:2 37:7,7
40:7,15 49:5,6,18,18 violate 31:19 weakening X
49:24 violation 27:14 50:10 x 1:2,14 30:11
45:25 two-stage 6:8 vote 11:23 21:19 weeks 18:20
50:16 21:23 West 39:18 Y
U voter 40:16 we'll 3:3 14:11 year 31:25
unconstitutio... 3:18 5:6,15,19 we've 19:5 23:9 yellow 9:3 16:9
47:19,21 11:24,25 13:9 0
48:25
14:12 15:8 06-713 1:5 3:4
16:22 18:21,23 06-730 1:11 3:6
46:10 underlying 7:17 19:14 21:14,17 Wherupon 1
undermines 23:18 26:4 51:16 1 1:16 16:4,9
understand 33:15 35:6,7 28:1,2,4,15 49:8
27:23 51:11 votes 16:19 33:9,21 34:8 13 26:22
6:5 26:4 44:14 W 39:15 40:7,19 2005 29:19
unsuccessful want 5:11 10:14 40:23 41:4,9 2007 1:16
34:21
2:7
2:4 9:3 18:19
46:25
21:13,16
42:8
2:10
23:3,5,20
4:19
45:3
24:17
45:7
7:4
35:7
44:12
3:13,21 5:1
20:1
28:8
33:25
41:10,11
42:6,20
4:14
12:12
11:24 18:20
