IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
STEPHEN DANFORTH, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-8273
MINNESOTA. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October 31, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:01 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
BENJAMIN J. BUTLER, ESQ., Assistant Minnesota State
Public Defender, Minneapolis, Minn.; on behalf of the
Petitioner.
PATRICK C. DIAMOND, ESQ., Deputy County Attorney,
Minneapolis, Minn.; on behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
BENJAMIN J. BUTLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
PATRICK C. DIAMOND, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 30
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
BENJAMIN J. BUTLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:01 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Danforth v. Minnesota.
Mr. Butler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN J. BUTLER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BUTLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In this case, the Minnesota Supreme Court
held that this Court had prevented it from deciding for
itself which State prisoners can go into Minnesota State
courts to raise Federal constitutional challenges to
their conviction. This is incorrect.
A State court is free to fashion -- the
State courts are free to fashion their own jurisprudence
as to who may raise a Federal constitutional question in
State court in the context that if you hear State courts
and State legislatures can make their own policy
decisions about the costs and benefits of allowing State
prisoners to challenge their otherwise final convictions
based on new rules of Federal constitutional criminal --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I propose if the
State of Minnesota really cared about this, it could
have its own confrontation rule. Does it have a
confrontation rule?
MR. BUTLER: The State constitution, Justice
Kennedy, has a confrontation clause. Its jurisprudence
on the confrontation clause, its own, is identical to
this Court's jurisprudence. So, yes, theoretically, a
Petitioner could always go in and make a State court
challenge to his State court conviction. The question
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That means the State isn't
necessarily tied in knots. It has the option to do
substantively what it chooses.
MR. BUTLER: The question in this case, Your
Honor, I think, is that whether -- is the question of
whether it has to. Yes, a State prisoner can make a
State court challenge to his conviction. The question
is, does he have to? In this case, Mr. Danforth
challenges his conviction under the Federal
Constitution.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, page 2 of your reply
brief, the yellow brief, you take issue with the State,
and you say the State is wrong if there is a decision
either way on the confrontation clause and it's
questionable under Federal law, we can review it. I can
concede that's right, but that doesn't get you home.
That's the problem.
MR. BUTLER: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That is the problem.
You're now creating a regime in which State courts are
reaching questions that we said ought not to be reached
for final convictions.
MR. BUTLER: Your Honor --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that was the basis on
which we decided Crawford.
MR. BUTLER: Your Honor, it's simply a
regime under which the State court, as it can in any
number of other contexts, can choose to consider the
merits of a litigant's claim. The Federal question --
the Federal question here is -- well, there are two. In
this case, it's whether Federal law prevents the State
court from hearing it, but the substantive Federal
question is whether Mr. Danforth's conviction violates
the confrontation clause.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you think that our
holding in Teague was that it did, but we're not going
to let you out of jail?
MR. BUTLER: I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You think that's really
what we said in Teague, that even though your
constitutional rights were violated, we're going to
foreclose the remedy of habeas corpus? I -- I find it
difficult to believe that that -- you know, any
responsible court could make such a determination.
MR. BUTLER: Your Honor, what the Teague
Court did was set up a procedural and a prudential limit
on a defense available for the State in the particular
form of habeas corpus.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That issue is not a
necessary part of your case at all, but you don't have
to suggest that you could depart. You could do less
than Teague. For example, Griffith. You can accept
that as a given because it doesn't touch your case.
Isn't that so?
MR. BUTLER: That's correct, Your Honor.
Griffith sets forth, as we see it, the minimum
requirements of Federal law, that a new rule must be
applied to all cases that were pending when the new rule
is announced. That's what the Federal Constitution
requires.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Federal rules
don't have minimums and maximums. They have a rule.
And as Justice Kennedy pointed out, you can have a State
rule under the State constitution that goes further. It
seems to me that the States' determination to apply
Crawford retroactively must be based on a disagreement
with this Court's Teague analysis, which refers back to
the substantive elements of Crawford. So, in other
words, the disagreement at bottom is a disagreement
about how to read the substantive requirements of
Crawford.
MR. BUTLER: Respectfully, Mr. Chief
Justice, I don't think that's necessarily true. I think
the disagreement, if there is one, is with this Court's
policy decision in Teague to -- that the Court announced
in Teague as to whether to allow such challenges.
There's no disagreement as to the substance of Crawford
or to the substance of the Sixth Amendment. Nobody has
ever reached that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how do you --
I understand your point. Teague has both elements to
it. But if you're applying Teague, there are certain
exceptions that are based on exactly what the underlying
right is, what the Crawford right is. Is it a watershed
rule? Is it something else? And the court makes a
determination as a matter of Federal law on those
points. And what you're arguing for is discretion in
the State to disagree with those substantive
determinations.
MR. BUTLER: What we're arguing for,
Mr. Chief Justice, is discretion in the State to
disagree with the general policy rule that a court will
not consider a new rule when considering the validity of
a conviction on, in Teague's case, habeas or on
collateral review.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's a general policy
rule, but it may well, as in the Crawford case, as a
good example, have affected this Court's initial
determination to strike off in a new direction. We did
so knowing that there's a possibility that we wouldn't
upset final convictions.
MR. BUTLER: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I think it is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- to that effect.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it not a substantive
determination of Federal law when you say that this
constitutional change that we're making in this case or
that we have made in a past case is not retroactive?
That means there was no constitutional violation in the
past prior to the announcement of this case, and what
the State -- what you want the State court to be able to
say is yes, there is a Federal constitutional violation
for which we're going to give a remedy in habeas.
MR. BUTLER: I think, Justice Scalia and
Justice Kennedy, if I could address your points in turn,
on Justice Scalia's question about whether there was or
was not a constitutional violation, if the Court is
really holding that there was -- that something -- that
there was no constitutional violation at the time
Petitioner's conviction became final or at the time
Mr. Bockting's conviction became final in the habeas
case, then what the Court is really holding is that
Crawford didn't just interpret the confrontation clause;
it somehow changed the confrontation clause, that the
confrontation clause meant -- that the confrontation
clause said one thing at one point and now says
something else.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think that's exactly what
Crawford means, and I think that's exactly what
happened. That's what it means, whether it's a new
rule. What does a new rule mean? It means it didn't
used to be the rule, but it is the rule after this case.
Now, you can argue, and there are many
originalists who would agree with you, that there
shouldn't be such a thing as a new rule, but once you've
-- once you've agreed that there can be new rules, if
this Court says this is a new rule, we acknowledge it
wasn't the rule before, but it's new, it will not have
retroactive effect, it seems to me that the State would
be contradicting that ruling by saying oh, in our view
the law used to be exactly what you say it newly is.
MR. BUTLER: But the question, Your Honor --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But your basic position is
that we should not be making new law. We should be --
we might have misinterpreted the law over the years,
but, basically, this Court has no power to change the
text of the Constitution or its meaning. I guess
Justice Scalia's position is we have all that power in
the world.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: My position is we have
asserted all that power in the world.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there is -- there is
-- it's not as though we have a new rule, and we apply
it from this day forward. Crawford is retroactive at
least for cases that are not yet final. When they were
on trial, Crawford wasn't there, but maybe somewhere
toward the end of the appellate process, lo and behold,
they can take advantage of it.
So it's a question of where you want to cut
it off. And at one time, didn't this Court cut it off
in a different place?
MR. BUTLER: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, it did.
In fact, for centuries everything this Court did was
always retroactive, as the Court knows.
And then we got the Linkletter balancing
test, and then later on we got Griffith and Teague, and
the Court has refined, usually through the scope of
Federal habeas corpus --
JUSTICE ALITO: And during the period
between Linkletter and Griffith, did the State -- if the
Supreme Court said that a decision was not retroactive,
did State supreme courts feel free to apply it
retroactively?
MR. BUTLER: It -- there -- there doesn't
seem to be any case law on that point, Your Honor, that
I'm aware of. State courts usually, as they do today,
usually followed this Court's retroactivity decision.
But it is unclear whether they thought they had to or
whether they just chose to. The question --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can a State -- can
they pick -- can a State pick and choose? Can it say
that we are going to allow Crawford claims to be applied
retroactively, but other claims, we're not going to?
MR. BUTLER: I think, when it -- if you
consider, Mr. Chief Justice, that the Teague rule is a
procedural rule about who gets to make what claims, then
I think the answer to your question is yes. The State
court could say --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, and if you
think that the Teague rule is an assessment of the
substantive -- part of the substantive constitutional
interpretation, an assessment about what the impact of
Crawford is versus other decisions, then I guess they
couldn't, right?
MR. BUTLER: Well, it depends on the impact
in what -- in what setting, Your Honor. It -- the --
the Teague rule -- and Teague, itself, and every case
this Court has ever -- in which this Court has ever
considered Teague, has come from one procedural posture:
Federal habeas corpus review of State court convictions.
It is over that posture that this Court
exercises both supervisory power and control to
interpret the various Federal habeas statutes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, even -- even outside
of the habeas context, we -- we decided a case, Hudson
v. Walker, one or two terms ago. It was a no-knock
case. We said that, even if there is a no-knock
violation, the exclusionary rule does not apply. This
would be too costly an extension of the exclusionary
rule and would bring the -- would make the Fourth
Amendment a disruptive force.
Under your view, I take it, the State, even
in -- in its trial proceedings subject to direct review,
could disagree with that and take a Federal concept,
no-knock, and then apply the exclusionary rule, thereby
forcing us to make the -- to draw the very lines that we
said we ought not to draw in Hudson.
MR. BUTLER: No, Your Honor.
First of all, what Hudson -- the Hudson case
asked was whether exclusion of evidence was required
under the Fourth Amendment when the violation of the
Fourth Amendment was a no-knock violation.
The word "required" appears throughout the
opinion in Hudson, and the answer was no, it doesn't.
The Fourth Amendment doesn't require exclusion of
evidence.
But there was no suggestion in -- in Hudson
that the State court could not then say, here is a
Fourth Amendment violation. We need to come up with
what the remedy is. The Constitution doesn't require us
to suppress the evidence, so we are -- we either choose
not to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but you agree with
me, then, that under your position, the State could
apply an exclusionary rule.
MR. BUTLER: Yes, Your Honor, it could under
State law. And if --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Based on the
distinction between right and remedy, a distinction that
is -- that in countless areas of the law we -- we have
said is -- is an ephemeral one?
MR. BUTLER: Well, the -- that is not based
on that distinction. That is one way to look at it,
Mr. Chief Justice, that in -- in the Hudson context, it
is definitely a question of right and remedy.
There's no question in Hudson that the
defendant's Fourth Amendment rights were violated. The
question is what remedy is required by the Constitution.
Here, Mr. Danforth wants the Minnesota State
Court to consider whether his constitutional rights were
violated. It did not hold that they were not. It held
that it could not consider the merits of his claim
because of Teague.
And in other settings this Court, in its
other limitations on the availability of habeas corpus,
has described these prudential rules like Teague as
gateway claims.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Butler, let me -- this
is a habeas case, but I assume the same issue could come
up in a -- in a direct appeal to the State Supreme
Court. Is it your position that in a direct appeal, the
State can determine to be retroactive constitutional
rights that we have said are not retroactive, on direct
appeal, now, not habeas?
MR. BUTLER: As long, Justice Scalia, as the
State acknowledges that it is using State law to do so,
that it is -- that it is not mismanaging this Court's
retroactivity jurisprudence. In other words, as long as
it doesn't think, well, we -- we must do this.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If it bases its decision on
the Federal Constitution, and we have said that this
Federal constitutional rule is not retroactive, what --
what do they say on a direct appeal?
MR. BUTLER: On a -- on a direct --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And my next question is
going to be whatever they say, when it comes up to us,
what do we do?
MR. BUTLER: It would -- it would depend on
the facts of the case, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm -- I'm confused on
this one, because I thought it was part of our
retroactivity jurisprudence that the States must apply
that new rule while the case is still in the pipeline,
while it is on direct appeal, not that they -- well,
they just may, but they absolutely must apply it
retroactively. I thought that's what Griffith said.
MR. BUTLER: That is, Your Honor, what
Griffith says, and that's -- that's what -- that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: My case was not in the
pipeline. The prosecution began after our new decision.
Okay? And it comes up to the State Supreme Court. Can
the State Supreme Court, despite the fact that we've
said the decision is not retroactive, make it
retroactive? And your answer is yes?
MR. BUTLER: My answer is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Habeas or not?
MR. BUTLER: My answer, Your Honor, is that
if the -- the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If it comes up after --
if the prosecution is after the Federal decision, of
course, the decision has to apply.
MR. BUTLER: Yes, I think that's correct,
Justice Ginsburg. The decision would apply. If the
prosecution starts after this Court announces a new rule
and then says that it is not retroactive -- when you
announce that it is not retroactive, it is not
retroactive to cases that are already final.
If the case hasn't even begun yet, then, of
course -- then, yes, then the new rule would apply.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does your -- does
your approach apply to legislative enactment's as well?
Let's say Congress passes a law and it provides as
particular remedy, and it says this remedy shall not be
retroactive but only apply in new cases.
Can the State say well, we think it ought to
apply to old cases, pending cases on habeas, or
whatever, and so we are going to apply this
retroactively, even though Congress said it's only
prospective?
MR. BUTLER: I think that's a -- that's a
somewhat different question, Your Honor, and it would --
it would depend on if -- if Congress passed a law that
said no State court shall apply retroactively something
or other --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. They just
say here's a new remedy, maybe a glance and exclusionary
remedy in cases where we have held one isn't required --
can the State allow that retroactively, even though
Congress -- a Federal remedy, even though Congress has
said this Federal remedy is only prospective?
MR. BUTLER: In the past, Your -- I think --
I think the short answer to your question, Mr. Chief
Justice, is yes. And I think the reason it can is
because, if you look at, for example -- if this is a
question of remedy, then I -- then the State courts have
all the power to grant more remedies, to grant more
expansive --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, your reliance
on this ancient distinction between right and remedy --
I mean if Congress says you don't have a remedy if it's
retroactive, it's hard to say what kind of right you
have.
MR. BUTLER: If, Your Honor -- think about
the -- the tax cases, for example, American Trucking and
McKesson, the case -- the companion case. In both of
those cases, especially McKesson, the Court held that
where there has been a violation of somebody's
constitutional rights and the -- and the State owes that
person some sort of a remedy, then the State can give
whatever remedy the minimum requirements of the Federal
Constitution or Federal law are, but can also go
further.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure, as a matter of
State law.
MR. BUTLER: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But here you are
arguing in favor of retro-application of Federal law.
There is no issue -- as Justice Kennedy pointed out, you
can have a State confrontation clause and do whatever
you want with it. But you are relying on the Federal
provision.
MR. BUTLER: What -- what we are relying on
-- we are relying, Mr. Chief Justice, on the substance
of the Sixth Amendment, yes. That is the substantive
claim Mr. Danforth makes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No. But you are also
relying, as I understand it, on State common law, in
effect. And you are saying, that so long as the State
common law does not give less by way of remedy and
relief than the Federal decision requires, the State is
free, as a matter of State remedial common law, to do
more. That's your point, isn't it?
MR. BUTLER: That is absolutely my point,
Justice Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You are saying that,
ultimately, the State's choice in this case rests upon a
choice of State common law about procedure leading to
remedy.
MR. BUTLER: It is not even just State
common law, Justice Souter. It is state statutory law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. No. I would
have thought the very least Teague is, is Federal common
lawful. In other words, this is the Federal law of
remedies. I think it is more than that. I think it is
substantive constitutional -- substantive Federal
constitutional law. But it's at least Federal common
law, and doesn't Federal common law preempt State common
law.
MR. BUTLER: Only, Mr. Chief Justice, if the
Federal interest is so strong as to outweigh all of the
State court interests. And when it comes to the
remedial question of does this person have a right to go
to State court and challenge his conviction, that is
quintessentially the matter of State law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That always assumes that
that's a remedial question, and that the question is not
was the Constitution violated at the time this act
occurred. That -- if that's the question, then you
acknowledge that the State can't change the situation.
MR. BUTLER: That's true, Justice Scalia.
That if this Court -- if Teague is a rule that says what
the Constitution was at a particular time, then it is
much harder for us, we would probably have to make a
State law claim.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if you can say -- it
is a little odd that the State executive can say, yes,
as far as we're concerned, we like the new law, or what
was always the law but the Court wasn't perceptive
enough to see that, we like it, so we're not going to
raise Teague. It would be an anomaly, would it not,
that the executive of the State is not bound by Teague,
but the courts are?
MR. BUTLER: That's correct, Justice
Ginsburg. And that's -- the waiver doctrine about
Teague shows why Teague is not a decision about what the
law was.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume that the State
executive can do that with respect to any Federal law
that it's authorized to implement, simply choose not to,
couldn't it? That's prosecutorial discretion.
MR. BUTLER: No, Justice Scalia,
respectfully, I don't think that's true. If the law at
the time of Mr. Danforth's conviction became final said
there's no confrontation violation, and we go to State
court or Federal habeas court, for that matter, and the
State chooses to say we don't want to apply Teague,
we'll take him on on his Crawford claim. That, under a
view that the law has changed, that allows the State
executive branch through waiver or even worse, through
procedural default, inaction, to change the substance of
Federal law.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You want us to write an
opinion which begins with the sentence, "This Court has
no interest in the extent to which its constitutional
decisions upset final judgments"?
MR. BUTLER: No, Justice Kennedy, I don't
think that's what the opinion should start with. I
don't necessarily think that that's true. I don't know
that there's no interest in much of anything in this
case.
When you weigh and balance the interests,
however, the interests of the State courts in
controlling access to their courthouse doors, in
reviewing that their own judgments -- I mean, Teague
gets back to a comity decision. Whatever Teague is is
based almost not exclusively but primarily on comity and
respect for State courts. Federal courts are not --
JUSTICE ALITO: If Crawford had been a
decision of the Minnesota Supreme Court, is it clear
what retroactivity rule they would have applied?
MR. BUTLER: No, Justice Alito, it's not.
The State court has used in the past the Linkletter
balancing test. It's also used something akin to
Teague. And then in this case, they held for Federal
rules they have to use Teague.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Butler, if as you say
Teague is, in effect, a comity rule, then what is your
answer, in effect, to Justice Scalia's point that we
make a decision when we come down with a substantive
legal judgment about the Constitution, we make a
decision as to whether the rule is retroactive or not?
And he says that if you look at Teague as simply, in
effect, a comity decision, that's inconsistent with the
determination that we have made, because if you say
okay, we as a State will apply it earlier than the Feds
say we have to, you, in effect, are changing the
substantive determination that we have made, that the
decision is not retroactive.
What is the retroactivity analysis that
underlies your comity analysis of Teague?
MR. BUTLER: The retroactivity analysis,
Your Honor, when this Court makes a decision is that, as
Justice Ginsburg suggested earlier, Griffith. The Court
says when it makes a new rule, when it announces what it
believes to be a new rule, that it knows that it will
apply to a certain group of cases.
It doesn't know -- it can't know anything
more than that, because the Court doesn't exercise
control over other courts --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Alright, but let's be more
specific. What does it know about retroactive
application under Griffith?
MR. BUTLER: That it will apply.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And it will apply to some
cases that depend upon facts and have eventuated from
trials that are --
MR. BUTLER: -- that are already finished.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Right. So that there's is
going to be some retroactivity?
MR. BUTLER: Yes, absolutely.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And if there is going to be
some retroactivity, then I take it your position has got
to be and is our substantive decisions are not so much
retroactive or non-retroactive, but retroactively
applied, to some extent, and not retroactively applied
to others, and a State is free to apply it more
retroactively than ours. Is that the nutshell?
MR. BUTLER: That is the gravamen of our
argument, Justice Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So your answer to Justice
Scalia is, I take it, not that the decision is
retroactive or not, but there is a decision about the
degree to which applications will be retroactive or not?
That is what underlies your case?
MR. BUTLER: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Then do you think the State
is free to decide how and when and whether it will,
quote, apply? I mean, simply to separate the law from
the application of the law seems to me no answer at all.
Is there any other area where you say well,
yes, there was a Supreme Court decision; but whether to
apply that decision is up to the State?
JUSTICE STEVENS: You're overlooking what I
understand to be the basic distinction you're drawing.
I know the Chief Justice has cast doubt on it. But I
think there is a basic distinction between rights and
remedies.
And you're holding -- I understand your
position to be that the remedy may not be retroactive,
even though the decision itself can assume that there
would have been a violation from the beginning of the
Constitution today we may have misinterpreted before.
But if there is a violation of the right, then there's a
decision about what kind of remedy shall be imposed.
And you can say we will not impose a remedy
for past wrongs, even though we must impose them in the
future and we can let other states decide whether to
post a remedy or not. And that's totally consistent
with the holding that the violation is always
retroactive, but the remedy may not be.
MR. BUTLER: I think that's correct, Justice
Stevens. When you talk about remedy --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- it is the other
way around which makes it problematic. You are going to
say the remedy is retroactive even if there's no right.
You're going to say where we have decided that there is
no remedy and, therefore, if you have a right, it's -- I
don't know what you get out of it -- you want to say,
no, there is a remedy.
MR. BUTLER: What I want to say, Mr. Chief
Justice, is that if there is a violation of the test of
the Sixth Amendment confrontation clause, this Court
decides what remedies are required, what remedies for
certain people and perhaps for other people what
remedies are not required. Justice Harlan in Mackey
called it the body responsible for defining the scope of
the -- what he called the writ, in other places, the
adjudicatory process.
In this case it's State post-conviction
review. It is that body that decides whether there
shall be either a remedy, you want to call it a remedy
for the violation, you want to call it who decides
whether the decision shall be applied retroactively, as
opposed to whether it is retroactive. It is the
group -- it is whoever is controlling the adjudicatory
process.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's subject to the
floor, that the floor that this Court sets, it must be
retroactive to a certain extent.
MR. BUTLER: That's correct, Justice
Ginsburg. Subject to the floor, it is then up to the
governing body to decide how much protection to give.
And that gets back to Justice Stevens's point -- the
States can always choose to give either -- you can call
it a greater remedy, you can call it a larger
retroactive application, as long as the substance of
Federal law doesn't change, then it is a State question.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It is the same as the
question of whether to apply the exclusionary rule.
MR. BUTLER: It is.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That was a remedial
decision. Everybody agreed the knock and announce
business was a violation. The only question was on
remedy. And there are lots of rights that -- for which
there's no remedy. Look at all our implied cause of
action cases, you will find many, many examples of that.
MR. BUTLER: In habeas corpus as well,
Justice Stevens. If you file your habeas petition one
day late, no remedy. If you don't preserve the issue in
the trial court, no remedy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you have to
argue, and this is why I think the distinction has been
rejected in so many other areas of the law, you have to
argue that the remedy question is totally separate from
an analysis of the right. Because otherwise, you are
saying the State courts have the right to disagree with
our determination of what the Federal right is. If you
think the remedy, the question of remedy draws some
substance from what the right is, which I would have
thought is obviously the case, then it seems to me
you're asserting a power on the basis of the State court
to overturn our Federal law determinations.
MR. BUTLER: We are not asserting, Mr. Chief
Justice, that the State court has the ability to
disagree with this Court's interpretation of the Federal
Constitution.
What we are asserting is that the State
courts and the State legislatures have the ability to
decide who can come into State court and what claims the
State court can listen to.
And I want to -- before I -- my time, I
wanted to address -- Justice Kennedy had a concern
earlier about knowing the scope of the application of a
right when you announce a substantive decision.
And the answer to that, I believe, is that
the court -- not only does it already know it's going to
go -- it will apply to anything pending on direct
review, but that -- that -- that question is much more
complicated than it seems. Different States have
different time lines for when something is pending on
direct review. How long it takes an appeal to pass
through the State court process? What requirements of
the defendant are there?
In Minnesota it takes about 15 months to run
a direct appeal. And so a defendant can sit there for
15 months and know that he's probably going to get the
benefit of any decision this Court announces. In
another State it might take two years. In another State
it might take six months. There's different groups of
defendants -- even under the Griffith standard, we
already don't have the sort of uniformity that the
Respondent thinks is so -- thinks is so important in
this area.
There's always -- things are always left to
the matter of State courts to -- to decide -- to have
their own procedural rules and decide how best to use
their adjudicatory processes, and all this Court can do
is announce the best Federal rules it thinks the
Constitution supports, have some idea of what the
minimum requirements of those rules are going to be; and
then it is up to the State courts to decide what other
remedies to give for the violations that -- if this
Court holds something is a violation, then it is up to
the State courts to decide as a minimum who it will
apply to.
If there are no further questions, I'll
reserve my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you -- thank
you, Mr. Butler.
Mr. Diamond.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICK C. DIAMOND
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. DIAMOND: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Federal law controls the retroactivity or
non-retroactivity of new constitutional rulings. This
Court determines the constitutional requirements --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you, just at the
outset, when you use the term retroactivity, are you
saying there was no violation of the Constitution before
the decision, or there just is no remedy for it?
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I think in this --
this Court has made it clear in the retroactivity area
that retroactivity is a question of the substantive
constitutional standard that will applies to a specific
defendant. I think the Court's cases from Payne,
Griffith, Yates --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- one of the cases where
the line is drawn when the expiration of the direct
review has passed. Is it your view that at that
particular point in time a constitutional violation
either exists or it does not exist? It's not a remedy
question?
MR. DIAMOND: That's correct, Your Honor. I
don't believe this is a matter of remedy. This Court,
for example, in Reynoldsville Casket wrote that Teague
itself is not a limitation on remedy. What it is, is a
limitation on the principle of retroactivity itself.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is part of that because of
what's involved in expectations? That's the Smith case,
where we said the determination of whether a
constitutional decision is retroactive Is every bit as
much a question of Federal law as the decision of the
substantive right itself. We said that in Smith.
MR. DIAMOND: Yes, Your Honor, and the point
is that the substantive rights and retroactivity are not
two different things.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And here the
expectation -- in Smith it was the expectation of people
in the private sector. Here the expectation is one of
finality of judgments.
MR. DIAMOND: Exactly, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then how do you -- how do
you reconcile that answer with the point that your
brother made just before he sat down, and that is,
taking standard Griffith analysis, the application of a
so-called new rule is going to vary depending on how
long it takes a person on direct appeal to get through
the State court system?
And it seems to me that that is inconsistent
with your view that there has got to be one rule with
respect to the date of application as a matter of
substantive Federal law, because we know for a fact
that, depending how long it takes to get through the
State appellate system on direct review, the new rule
may be applied and it may not be applied.
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, two points: First
of all, I think Griffith is very clear, that finality is
that point. Griffith is very clear, and it defines
finality as that point when the direct appellate process
has run, and this Court -- and the opportunity to
petition this Court for review is over. Secondly, Banks
II, a retroactivity case from this Court, says that it's
up to the Federal courts to define finality. Remember
in Banks II there was a question of whether the
Pennsylvania courts passing on waiver requirements
somehow destroyed the finality of --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I understand your -- your
point about finality, and finality has a well-known
operative effect. But one operative effect when the
Federal courts have defined finality and have said it is
not final until -- a case is not final until direct
review is over -- one consequence of that is that a
substantive Federal rule will be applied to an
individual in one State whose crime and whose trial
procedure is different in time from that of a defendant
in another State.
So that the consequence is that the
substantive rule will apply to some people who acted on
date X and it will not apply to some people who acted on
date X; and that, it seems to me, is inconsistent with
your answer to Justice Stevens's question.
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, given the varied
proceedings at the State level, that -- that is
inevitable no matter what time this Court --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And if it is inevitable, I
don't see how you can answer Justice Stevens's question
the way you did.
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, the point in
Griffith is that in terms of uniformity, this is -- in
terms of providing similarly situated people, the best
the Court can do in this area is to cut -- to make the
point at finality --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And the finality point in
effect establishes a way of calculating the application
of a rule in any given State in any given case, but it
will not result in the uniform application of the rule.
Isn't that correct?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, that's correct. You
have to say that's correct.
(Laughter.)
MR. DIAMOND: And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But I think you can also
explain that the reason it's correct is the Court
probably would have liked to say yes, we're making up a
new rule; the Constitution didn't use to say this; and
this rule will apply from now on to all actions taken by
individuals from now on. But then, you know, Justice
Harlan says my goodness, you're going to give relief to
this individual and not give relief to other individuals
who are making the same claim and already have cases
pending? You have to treat them equally. So we will
make an equitable exception for that.
But basically, the existence of that
exception does not prove that the Court was not
purporting to make a substantive rule. There's an
exception to the application of that substantive rule
for pending cases, which is totally understandable.
MR. DIAMOND: Which, Your Honor, is Griffith
and is defined by Federal law.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Can you give me an example
of a case in which this Court candidly said, we're
announcing a new rule which was not the law before?
Aren't we always interpreting what we thought the intent
of the framers was from the beginning, even though we
may have gotten it before? What is your best example of
a new rule, in the sense it's a different rule of law as
opposed to a different remedy? See, all these equitable
considerations go to the remedy. But the notion we can
make up a new rule of law at will strikes me as a very
dramatic departure from what I understand the rule of
law to require.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm really glad to hear
that.
(Laughter.)
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I think the
point -- this isn't Blackstone -- Blackstone is not the
only view here. The point is that finality is -- is not
a competing concern, but the point --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Finality is a condition
for fashioning the right remedy. There's no doubt.
Everything you say is necessary for treating litigants
in a -- in a fair manner. But that all goes to remedy,
not to the violation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't we call it a new
rule in Teague?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- expectations as being
questions of remedy?
MR. DIAMOND: Excuse me, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that your
-- your answer to Justice Souter's question earlier
should be that there is uniformity. Some States are
fast, some are slow, but in the end there is a final
judgment which is a settled expectation, and the
substance of the law honors settled expectations, which
is finality.
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor -- and that point
is -- the point of finality is a recognized point of
what is necessary for the integrity of judicial
decision-making.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's sort of like
defining order as random order, isn't it?
MR. DIAMOND: I disagree, Your Honor. I
think that as Justice Harlan said in the -- in the
Williams and Mackey dissents, there is -- a decision
that is always subject to revision is really the
functional equivalent of no decision at all. It's what
makes judicial decisions judicial.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And -- and the concern is a
concern not so much.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And the concern is not so
much a concern not so much for the defendant here but
for the States, isn't it? We don't want -- we think
there is -- there is an important value implicit in
habeas, and one of those values is that there be a limit
to the degree to which we are going to upset the settled
expectations of the States. Isn't that right?
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, the State's
interest here can be vindicated by the State by applying
State law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not the point. I
thought that Teague was driven not by some abstract
notion about finality, but the intrusion on State
decision-making. Here was State that had conducted an
entire process that appeared to be in line with what the
Federal law then appeared to be. And then the State is
told by some Federal habeas court, State, you've got to
do it all over again, because you didn't -- you didn't
predict that we were going to interpret the Constitution
differently. I thought that the really motivating idea
of Teague was it addressed the Federal forum and said,
Federal forum, don't step on the States' toes, don't
make them redo trials that have long since been over.
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I'm here
representing the State of Minnesota, and the intrusion
that I'm concerned about in this case is a State court
judge adopting some Federal optional -- sort of Federal
requirement, and applying it as opposed to using State
law that can be reviewed and overturned and for which
that State court judge is accountable to the citizenry
of the State.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I must say I have
serious problems with your position in that regard.
If you were not to prevail in this case
and -- or, pardon me, if the Petitioner were to prevail
in this case, and there were a ruling on what Crawford
means, or doesn't mean, we could review it. I think the
Petitioner is absolutely right on that point.
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I think that it's
difficult. If you look at, for example, the recent case
in Minnesota, Krasky, dealing with essentially the same
evidence that's at issue in this case, if the State was
adopting Krasky as some State standard, then this Court
wouldn't be in a position to review it. If it's
adopting Krasky as a -- as the Federal standard, then
the question is, how is it that the State is adopting
something as a matter of the Federal Constitution that
is not a Federal constitutional requirement?
JUSTICE BREYER: The question I have is, to
go back, you said two separate things. One is you say
the question here is a matter of Federal law. I'll give
you that. It's a matter of Federal law.
But the question is, what's the content of
the Federal law? Does the Federal law say to the States
-- State, in a collateral review proceeding, you want to
apply Crawford retroactively to people whose convictions
were long ago, do it, we don't care?
And a lot of Teague says that should be the
Federal rule, if it's called a Federal rule.
But then you said a different thing, in
answer to Justice Stevens. The different thing was but
the substantive rule of Crawford only takes effect as of
the day of Crawford and into the future.
Now, on that position, or take any other
date you want as one year earlier or whatever you're
going to pick there, if you're right about that, you
win.
But how could you be right about what I call
there a metaphysical point? Because on the metaphysics,
as Justice Souter just pointed out, imagine three people
who have three identical trials each one year before
Crawford. The first person is called Crawford, and he
wins.
The second person is called Smith, and he's
delayed forever in the appeals process.
And the third person is called Jones, and he
get a quick appeal, convicted, in jail at the time of
Crawford.
Now we know that the first two Crawford
applies to, but metaphysically, if the law of Crawford
was the law at the time of the first two trials, why
wasn't it the law in terms of what the rights are in
respect to the third person whose trial was held at
precisely the same time?
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, the point I think
is that this is a point that Griffith makes, that when
your conviction becomes final, that your stake -- if I
can call it that -- in changes in the law come to a
close.
JUSTICE BREYER: I agree with that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are saying
metaphysically this Court has no power to enunciate new
constitutional rules metaphysically, but we have done
so, and Teague is full of references to new rules. "We
therefore hold that implicit in the retroactivity
approach we adopt today is the principle that habeas
corpus cannot be used as vehicle to create new
constitutional rules of criminal procedure unless those
rules would be applied retroactively to all defendants."
The opinion is full of new rules.
So -- so, you know, we have violated
metaphysics already. Having violated it, in adopting
new constitutional rules, why should it be any surprise
that we also violated it in the application of those
rules? There should be no surprise at all. Don't get
hung up on metaphysics, Mr. Turner.
JUSTICE STEVENS: In Crawford itself, it
seems there was quite a bit of attention given to
history long before the original interpretation of the
clause. I guess that was unnecessary because we were
making up new rules. Is that the --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: You've adopted Justice
Scalia's approach through your silence, and I'd ask you
whether -- whether -- whether there isn't just a simpler
explanation that doesn't require us to go into Spinonza,
Immanuel Kant, or even Aristotle. And the simpler
explanation would be simply what Justice Stevens started
with, that Teague is about remedies, and that we assume
that the law was the law at the time of Crawford's
trial, at the time of Smith's trial, and at the time of
Jones' trial.
But Jones is knocked out because he went to
habeas. And that's what Teague is about. Habeas. And,
therefore, if the State wants to apply Crawford
retroactively, let everybody out of jail, that's their
problem. Or their virtue. That's up to them.
That's where Justice Stevens started, and
that's what I would like to hear an answer to.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You wouldn't want to say
that, Mr. Turner, because that would place you in the
position of saying what we are telling people in these
Teague cases is oh, yes, the Constitution was violated,
but we don't want to hear about it. I mean that's the
alternative, to acknowledge that the Constitution is
violated in all of these Teague cases, some of them
being capital cases, and we nonetheless say well, too
bad, it's on habeas.
I'd like to think that's not what we're
doing, that what we're saying is, this is a new
constitutional rule, there was no constitutional
violation before, and that's why we're letting it stand.
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think you're
handling these questions very well.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was not a question
addressed to you, Mr. Diamond.
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I think that, in
terms of Teague as a remedial limitation, first of all,
I don't think this Court's retroactivity jurisprudence
at all supports that notion.
I also think, for example, while certainly
not directly at issue in the habeas area, in construing
habeas, this Court said that Teague was not so much
about a standard of review as it was about the standard
that applies itself. And so I think it's very difficult
to square the notion of Teague as a remedial limitation
with this Court's retroactivity jurisprudence.
It's also difficult to square it with the
explicit rejection of that notion in American Trucking
and in Harper and Reynoldsville Casket.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You do recognize, though,
that one of the propelling forces behind Teague and why
we changed from the Linkletter regime was respect for
State courts' processes and the resistance to the heavy
hand of Federal habeas courts telling States what to do.
It seems a little ironic then if you take an
opinion that was driven by the Feds staying out of the
State courts' territory to say oh, no, we're going to
tell you that it's not -- we control when we want to.
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, certainly that was
one of the things that was going on in Teague. But,
respectfully, I think the question -- it's every bit as
intrusive on the State process when a State court judge
applies a new Federal rule to overturn a conviction, as
it is when a Federal court judge does the same thing.
In other words, those comity concerns apply
regardless of forum.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Isn't what you are saying
is that the concern in Teague was not only with State
court processes, but with settled expectations of those
who are involved in the criminal system, particularly
victims who are entitled at some point to rely on a
conviction being final?
MR. DIAMOND: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We don't usually think of
just of settled expectations as being questions of
remedy. We consider those as being questions of
substance.
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I think if you
look at Justice Harlan's writing in Teague about the
post-conviction -- what should be the rule for
post-conviction, you see he lays out very eloquently
what those concerns are in terms of finality and
uniformity in the post-conviction arena. And what I'm
saying is that those concerns -- certainly comity is a
concern; but those other concerns in terms of finality
and allocation of judicial scarce criminal justice
resources and what kind of a trial are you going to have
11 years after the fact, is it going to be more fair
than the trial that occurred in the first place, all of
those -- apply.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- State executives can
upset all those expectations. The State executive says
I want this -- the issue -- the substantive issue in
this case settled, so I'm not going to raise Teague.
And so Crawford is going to be retroactive because I say
so. It is a bit of an anomaly that the prosecutor has
that power but not the State court itself.
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, first of all, I
think the State court is in a business -- is in a
different role in terms of enforcing the constitutional
rights in that situation. In fact, as it relates to the
constitutional right, it is difficult to see what State
interest a judge should be vindicating at that point.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It is also difficult to
see what Federal interest is vindicated when the State
says we know we have to respect this -- call it what you
want -- new precedent in cases still in the pipeline,
and we don't have to if the case has reached a final
judgment. But "not required to" doesn't say "can't,
even if you want to."
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, that brings me
back to the point where I started, which is that the
Constitution doesn't -- remember, we're using the
Federal Constitution here as authority to do something
that, for example, in this case the Minnesota Court
would be otherwise unable to do.
This defendant never raised the State law
claim. Under -- never had -- this defendant never
raised his State confrontation rights. So in this
proceeding, the Minnesota Court would bar him from
raising his confrontation --
JUSTICE BREYER: Let me take the other point
here, which is Justice Scalia's, which I think I
understand now. Imagine that the Crawford begins to
take effect as of the day of decision. No law like
Crawford before. But for practical reasons and reasons
having to do with courts, we let certain people take
advantage of it. We let person A take advantage of it,
Mr. Crawford. We let person B take advantage of it, who
is on direct appeal. We don't let people in habeas take
advantage of it.
Why don't we let the State take advantage of
it in its collateral proceedings if the State wants to,
for reasons of federalism, for reasons they can do what
they want, for reasons if it is going to be the law in
the future any way?
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, my point is that
the State can take -- the State can do that as a matter
of State law. The problem is with allowing the State to
extend the Federal standards here, is that the Federal
standards under Teague and under Griffith, but mainly
Griffith and Wharton together in this case, defines what
the constitutional requirement -- what constitutional
standard this --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask another sort of
basic question? The Teague rule is a Federal rule --
the Teague ruling. What is your understanding of the
source of that rule? Is it the Court's power to
announce, make Federal common law? Or is it a
constitutionally mandated rule?
I will give you one other decision, cover it
all at once.
And if it were not a judge-made rule, and
rather, it was a statute and it goes beyond regulating
Federal habeas corpus proceedings and effects State
court proceedings, what provision in the Constitution
would have given Congress the authority to enact such a
statute?
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, let me --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Interpreting it the way
you interpret it.
MR. DIAMOND: Let me try the first question,
and then we will see where we go. I think the source
of -- the authority for Teague is, frankly, the same
source for authority as it is for Griffith, and as the
same source of authority as in Griffith. Griffith talks
about -- the best I can do for that is Griffith talks
about it being grounded on basic norms of constitutional
adjudication and the integrity of the judicial decision
making.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Which qualifies for the
Federal system. Where is the authority to regulate the
State system come from?
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I disagree in
terms of that that all applies only in the Federal
system. If you look at, for example, the civil cases,
American Trucking, Reynoldsville, and Harper, they
talked about that same basic norms of constitutional
adjudication applying in the State forum as well.
I'm sorry. There was a second part to your
question which was in terms of Congress being able to
amend or modify Teague in some fashion?
JUSTICE STEVENS: No. Where would Congress
get the authority to require State courts to follow the
rule, the interpretation of Teague that you're advancing
in this Court, that they may not go beyond the decisions
of this Court? What under the Federal Constitution
authorizes the Federal government, either judges or
Congress, to tell State courts that they cannot do what
your opponent argues they should able to do?
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I don't believe
that that's what's going on in the Federal habeas
statute. I think this Court has said that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I agree when you are
talking about what Federal court can do -- administering
a Federal habeas corpus. I have no problem. I'm asking
where does the Federal authority to tell State courts
they cannot do what your opponent says they should be
free to do?
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I guess my source
of confusion with your question is I don't understand
Teague is a rule from Congress. I understand Teague is
a rule of this Court in terms -- describing what the
Constitution -- what constitutional standard applies to
what defendant.
JUSTICE STEVENS: In Federal habeas corpus
proceedings, yes.
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, that's where the
point of agreement is. I think Teague does many things,
but one of the things Teague does -- and, frankly, not
just Teague, the whole retroactivity jurisprudence of
this Court, Griffith and Teague together set up a
coherent whole. Griffith treats finality. Teague
post-finality. And the process of this Court saying,
you this defendant enjoy this substantive Federal right,
you this defendant enjoy this substantive Federal right
that was active at the time your conviction became
final --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The protection of this
Court. What -- why can't they provide more protection?
What Federal rule prevents that?
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I think what --
the problem with it is in the constitutional design
itself. In terms of the Constitution provides
requirements. You don't have to get into Teague.
Griffith and Wharton together, Wharton saying Teague
exceptions don't apply to Crawford, those two cases
together basically say the State's requirement to
provide this new constitutional rule ended when this
defendant's conviction became final.
At that point, that is the constitutional
requirement. The constitutional design then is that
States are not free as a matter of Federal authority to
exceed that requirement. They may not rely on Federal
authority to do that. Just the same -- they can
certainly do it as a matter of their own authority. But
the Constitution, for example, this defendant having
waived his State claims, having not raised them, the
Constitution doesn't allow the State of Minnesota --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Suppose it is a knock and
announce violation. They don't want to apply an
exclusionary rule. Can they apply a remedy that will
fire any officer who does this? Or will they say, no,
you can't do that, because it goes beyond what the
Federal Constitution requires?
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I think that if
that remedy is grounded in State laws, the State of
Minnesota could certainly do that. But I don't think
they can rely on the Federal Constitution to fire any
officer who does that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could a -- could a State
say: We know that Federal habeas, the Fourth Amendment,
is out. Stone v. Powell says when it's -- when you
go through the direct process, that's the end of your
raising a search-and-seizure claim.
Could a State say: Well, we know the Fourth
Amendment is binding on us under the Federal
Constitution, but we think that we should extend the
Fourth Amendment, right, not only to cases on direct
review but to collateral review as well?
Federal habeas courts can't do it, but could
States?
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I think the answer
to that is probably yes, and the reason is different,
though. The reason is the States -- we're not changing
the rights that the person is entitled to.
What we are -- what you're changing -- that
is -- that is the remedy-and-right question again. And
-- and what I'm saying is that what Teague -- Griffith
and Lorton together say that this person's
constitutional right, the right that he had, was fixed
when his conviction became final, as opposed to the case
where you -- that you're postulating, which is the
question of, yes, the State's going to recognize the
Fourth Amendment right in its post-conviction -- does
the right -- the content of the right, itself, is not
changed in that instance.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Diamond, let me ask you
a question. Let me ask you a question which is totally
off the point of the Federal Constitution, I guess.
That is, if Minnesota really wants the rule that you
want it to have, its legislature can provide that that
will be the rule, can't it?
The Minnesota legislature can pass a statute
saying nobody gets more than Teague allows.
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I don't think the
Minnesota legislature could -- could go into the
pre-finality area. In other words, the Minnesota
legislature --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Can the Minnesota
legislature say: Look, the -- the Supreme Court of the
United States has -- has come down with some rules. We
won't characterize them as minimums or anything else.
We'll just say it's a set of rules. It's called Teague,
and Teague is going to be the law for the application of
Federal rights in Minnesota State courts. Is -- can the
Minnesota legislature do that?
MR. DIAMOND: Your Honor, I think, in that
instance, the Minnesota legislature -- I see my time is
up, but I think in that instance the Minnesota
legislature is -- is providing the minimum that the
Constitution requires. So the answer to --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So the answer is yes.
MR. DIAMOND: -- that is yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Diamond.
Mr. Butler, you have a minute remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN J. BUTLER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BUTLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Two quick points in my -- in my one minute:
On finality, the State court can weigh the
costs and benefits of upsetting the finality of its own
conviction, convictions rendered in State court and
appeals rendered in State court.
It can decide, as several States have, that
the interests in full adjudication of constitutional
claims outweigh the interest in finality.
The question in Teague was whether the
Federal court could decide that for the States, and the
answer is no. But the States can decide that for
themselves.
On Justice Souter's point about what -- or
somebody's point about what the source of authority was,
Mr. Diamond said it was basic norms of constitutional
adjudication, and that is the phrase used in Griffith.
That phrase is a minimum. The basic norms
of constitutional adjudication require the following:
They require application of new rules to pending cases,
even though the conduct had already -- had already
happened.
They don't require anything more than that,
and we're not here asking the Court to hold that they
do. We're simply asking the Court -- I see my time is
up.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't you finish
your sentence.
MR. BUTLER: We are simply asking the Court
to hold that if the State wishes to go beyond the
minimum, they are free to do so.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Butler.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
55:5 allocation 44:19 28:21,25 31:23 30:13 33:17 back 6:25 22:5
23:25 17:13 50:22 appeals 39:20 areas 13:25 45:20
allowing 3:20 53:24 27:18 bad 42:8
alternative 42:5 appears 13:8 arguing 7:20,23 bar 46:3
20:9 42:5 Amendment 32:5,10 argument 1:12 7:16 13:23
13:6,7,10,14 23:17 24:19 24:9 30:1 bases 15:5
23:4,5,6 27:20 24:13 asserting 28:1,3 began 15:25
ancient 17:24 11:17 22:10 assessment 34:25
54:1 27:7 28:14 32:6,6,24 Assistant 1:15 46:7
29:13 47:7 40:19 assume 14:19 begun 16:18
29:12 announced 6:17 39:25 43:2,21 41:14 2:4,6,9 3:7
announcement apply 6:23 10:13 attention 41:3 behold 10:17
29:2 16:24 17:1,2,8 48:5,17 49:5 believes 23:10
announcing 21:11 22:25 50:16,18,19 benefit 29:2
45:4 27:4 28:17 authorizes BENJAMIN
answer 11:22 29:20 33:4,5 48:21 1:15 2:3,8 3:6
49:2 24:10,19 28:15 44:23 50:10,24 available 6:5 33:16 35:1
51:2 33:20 certainly 42:23 clause 4:3,4,22 confused 15:15
call 26:11,12,24 43:17 44:17 5:17 9:6,7,8,9 confusion 49:9
45:4 45:14 4:7,15 20:3 clear 22:9 30:13 17:25 47:15
39:4,17,19,21 4:17 7:9 close 40:9 49:10
41:8 4:16 5:14 6:8 changes 40:8 28:9 40:8 48:6 35:4
6:11 8:2,5,15 changing 23:1 52:25 considered 12:9
18:5,5 19:11 11:15,20,24 common 19:2,4 14:8 15:6
3:5,6,8 4:2 24:14 26:9 16:20 17:10,17 19:21,22,22 22:20 25:7
5:1,6,9,21 27:25 31:5 17:23 18:13,16 47:7 28:6 29:14
7:5,23 32:13,22 33:21 18:23 19:16,24 companion 18:5 30:10 34:6
9:25 34:22 37:21 24:25 25:18,25 competing 37:14 38:17
11:9,19 38:4,6,10,12 27:16 28:3 35:14 42:3,5 45:21
13:3,21 45:2,16,23 29:23 30:3 complicated 45:22 47:14
46:25 52:5 42:14 53:14,19 28:19 48:20 49:12
55:3,4 54:20 55:1 concede 4:24 50:7,20,22
17:5 cases 6:16 10:15 choice 19:11,12 concept 12:24 51:3,7,16
18:3,15 16:17,24 17:1 choose 5:11 concern 28:12 52:13 53:10
19:8,14 17:1,12 18:4,6 11:16 13:16 35:14 36:19,20 constitutional
20:10,23 23:11,20 27:11 21:4 26:24 36:21,22 44:1 3:13,17,22
22:11 30:16,18 34:11 chooses 4:11 44:18 5:24 8:15,17
23:6,18 34:18 42:3,6,7 21:11 concerned 20:17 8:20,25 9:2
24:8 45:15 48:9 chose 11:14 37:21 12:1 14:10,22
25:16,25 50:10 51:17 citizenry 37:25 concerns 43:23 15:7 18:8
27:5,12 54:13 civil 48:9 44:15,17,18 19:20,21 21:19
29:24 Casket 31:1 claim 5:12 14:12 condition 35:15 30:6,7,15,21
43:7 18:25 20:14 conduct 54:14 31:7 38:18
55:2 cast 24:25 21:12 34:11 conducted 37:9 40:13,18,23
23:11 26:4,19 28:9 50:21 18:19 21:9 50:6,12,14,15
54:1,9,12 5:15 6:2,4 7:8 43:4 47:6 15:5,25 16:3 31:22 32:4
8:25 9:5,20 Crawford 5:8 19:5 20:25 Deputy 1:18
11:2,6,23 12:8 7:17 8:5 9:6,12 22:23 23:3,7 describing
13:13 14:10,14 12:3 21:12 25:5,9 26:13 design 50:6,15
14:4 16:14 17:8 39:7,8,17,17 29:2 30:11 destroyed 32:17
21:18 22:9,12 46:7,9,12 47:9 48:2 8:14 22:24
43:16 24:21 26:2,18 Crawford's 12:3 21:20 31:6
28:10,16,22 create 40:17 48:19 7:22 28:2
5:16 32:13 33:10,17 40:18 44:3,19 defendant 28:23 2:5 29:25 30:1
9:3,4 20:3 34:4,15,22 cut 10:19,20 28:25 30:16 30:3,12,24
40:7 37:12,21,25 33:17 33:1 36:22 31:10,17 32:7
44:5 38:13 40:12 45:25 46:1 33:8,14 34:2
50:13 42:25 43:20,22 D 49:13,23,24 34:19 35:11,24
53:23 44:2 45:5,7,23 D 3:1 50:20 36:7,13 37:3
8:9 12:10 48:19,20 49:1 3:4 4:16 14:9 40:19 40:5 42:13,18
53:23 49:3,11,20,22 18:25 defendant's 42:19 43:17
12:10 53:21,23,24 21:8 Defender 1:16 45:19 46:20
27:12 54:4,17,18,22 date 32:2 33:5,6 defense 6:5 47:17,20 48:7
47:13 courthouse 22:3 39:10 define 32:14 48:24 49:8,16
courts 3:13,16 day 10:14 27:14 defined 32:21 50:5 51:4,21
20:23 11:11 17:20 dealing 38:11 defines 32:9 53:12,15 54:9
25:16 20:22 22:2,7,7 decide 24:17 46:25 different 10:21
30:24 23:14 27:21 25:12 26:22 defining 26:6 17:6 28:19,20
28:8 29:10,16 28:9 29:10,11 36:12 29:4 31:12
29:19 32:14,16 29:16,19 53:25 definitely 14:5 33:1 35:2,3
15:2 28:5 decision 4:21 17:7 23:20 45:10,12
5:10 30:16 42:21 7:8 11:6,12 depending direct 12:23
either 4:22 exceptions 7:16 48:15 40:7 44:5
13:16 26:11,24 50:10 fashioning 45:16 50:1,13
30:22 48:21 exclusion 13:5 35:16 52:5
31:23 elements 7:1,14 13:10 fast 36:3 finality 31:16
eloquently exclusionary favor 18:17 32:8,10,14,17
51:12,17 44:14 12:18,19,25 Federal 3:13,17 32:19,19,21
27:21 ended 50:12 Excuse 35:24 7:19 8:14,20 49:21 53:21,22
36:13 enforcing 45:8 executive 20:16 11:3 12:10,13 54:2
enjoy 49:23,24 20:21 21:3,14 12:24 15:6,7 find 5:25 27:11
7:2,2,7,10entitled 44:4 executives 44:24 18:10,11,17,20 finished 23:22
21:5 enunciate 40:12 exercises 12:12 19:21,22,25 first 3:4 13:4
14:3 35:3 expansive 17:22 29:13 30:5 47:20
24:24 equivalent expectation 31:8 32:3,14 fixed 52:4
27:17 36:17 31:14,14,15 32:21,24 34:20 floor 26:18,18
establishes 44:8,25 39:4 43:12,21 force 12:21
13:16 38:12 51:16 50:17 51:3,7 forum 37:16,17
extent 21:19 52:13 53:4 forward 10:14
28:13 31:1 34:21 fact 10:23 16:2 Feds 22:25 51:17 52:8
39:10 35:1 38:10 32:3 44:21 43:14 framers 34:25
22:17,18 48:9 50:20 facts 15:14 file 27:13 49:18
23:1 examples 27:11 23:20 final 3:21 5:5 free 3:15,16
33:20 exceed 50:17 fair 35:18 44:21 8:9 9:3,4 10:15 11:7 19:6 24:6
46:8 exception 34:13 far 20:17 16:17 21:8,20 24:17 49:7
44:21 45:2,3 happened 9:13 34:24 47:18
29:21 good 8:6 harder 20:13 identical 4:4 intrusive 43:20
46:19 gotten 35:1 34:9 36:14 II 32:13,15 44:3
15:15 Griffith 6:10,14 heavy 43:11 40:15 J
20:15 11:1,5 15:21 held 3:11 14:11 implied 27:10 J 1:15 2:3,8 3:6
23:8 15:23 23:8,17 17:12 18:6 important 29:7 53:17
37:6 29:5 30:17 22:14 40:3 36:24 jail 5:20 39:22
43:8 31:21 32:8,9 history 41:4 impose 25:10,11 41:21
45:12 33:15 34:19 hold 14:11 40:15 imposed 25:9 Jones 39:21
40:6 46:24,25 54:17,23 inaction 21:15 41:17,18
26:22,24 49:20,21 50:9 9:5 25:3,14 22:23 31:25 43:20,22 45:11
34:9,10 52:2 54:10 holds 29:18 33:6 judges 48:21
38:21 grounded 48:1 home 4:24 incorrect 3:14 judge-made
51:5 Honor 4:13 5:6 individual 32:25 47:11
41:3 26:15 11:10 12:6 individuals 34:8 36:4 45:17
groups 29:4 13:3,21 15:14 34:10 judgments
20:2 31:10,17 32:7 instance 52:10 36:18 44:19
28:17 H 33:8,14 34:19 53:7,8 48:2
38:20 habeas 5:25 6:6 35:11,24 36:7 integrity 36:9 jurisprudence
47:21 8:2,21 9:4 11:3 36:13 37:3,19 48:2 3:16 4:3,5 15:3
51:12 12:10,13,15 38:9 40:5 intent 34:24 15:17 42:21
54:23 14:15,19,24 42:13,19 43:17 interest 19:25 43:4 49:19
51:2 21:10 27:12,13 45:19 46:20 45:11,13 54:2 4:2,9,19 5:2,7
11:17,18 40:16 41:19,19 49:8,16 50:5 22:1,2 54:1 6:21 7:6,13,24
17:2 42:8,24,25 51:4,21 52:19 interpret 9:6 8:4,11,12,13
23:24 43:12 46:13 53:6 12:13 37:14 8:22,23,24
25:19,21 47:13 48:25 honors 36:5 47:19 9:11 10:1,6,9
29:1,15 49:4,14 51:10 Hudson 12:15 interpretation 10:12,22 11:4
34:9 51:19 13:2,4,4,9,12 12:2 28:5 41:4 11:15,20,24
39:11 hand 43:12 14:4,6 48:18 12:14 13:18,23
35:22,25 36:21 38:21,22,24,24 lot 39:3 Minnesota 1:6
38:2 43:25 39:25 40:1,2,8 lots 27:9 1:15 3:4,10,12
44:7 41:15,15 45:25 3:24 14:9 22:9
kind 18:1 25:9 46:8,18,22 M 28:24 37:20
44:20 47:7 53:3 Mackey 26:5 38:11 45:23
knock 27:7 lawful 19:18 36:15 46:3 50:22
20:5 50:23 laws 51:5 making 8:15 51:6 52:14,17
knocked 41:18 lays 44:14 10:2 34:5,11 52:20,21,23
knots 4:10 leading 19:12 41:6 48:3 53:4,5,7,8
know 6:1 21:23 left 29:9 mandated 47:8 minute 53:16,20
23:12,12,16 legal 22:20 manner 35:18 misinterpreted
24:25 25:23 legislative 16:21 matter 1:11 7:19 10:3 25:7
28:16 29:1 legislature 18:13 19:6 mismanaging
26:1 32:3 34:8 52:15,17,20,22 20:4 21:10 15:2
39:24 40:21 52:24 53:5,7,9 29:10 30:25 modify 48:15
45:14 51:10,14
29:23 knowing 8:8 28:8 38:17,21,22 29:1,4
31:4 28:13 letting 42:12 46:21 50:16,19 morning 3:4
32:18 knows 10:24 let's 16:22 23:15 55:5 motivating
23:10 level 33:9 maximums 6:20 37:15
34:3,8 Krasky 38:11,13liked 34:5 McKesson 18:5
35:8,15 38:15 limit 6:4 36:25 18:6 N
limitation 31:2,3 mean 9:14 17:25 N 2:1,1 3:1
L 42:20 43:3 22:4 24:18 necessarily 4:10
37:6 larger 26:25 limitations 38:7 42:4 7:6 21:23
39:6 late 27:14 14:15 meaning 10:5 necessary 6:8
40:10,11 Laughter 10:8 line 30:19 37:10 means 4:9 8:17 35:17 36:9
10:11 34:1 lines 13:1 28:20 9:12,13,14 need 13:14
42:14,17 35:10 41:7 Linkletter 10:25 38:7 never 45:25 46:1
44:7 42:16 11:5 22:12 meant 9:8 46:1
law 4:23 5:14 43:10 merits 5:12 new 3:22 6:15
46:5,6 6:15 7:19 8:14 listen 28:10 14:12 6:16 8:1,7 9:13
48:4 9:24 10:2,3 litigants 35:17 metaphysical 9:14,18,19,20
49:2,14 11:10 13:22,25 litigant's 5:12 39:14 9:21 10:2,13
51:9 15:1 16:22 little 20:16 metaphysically 15:18,25 16:14
53:11 17:7 18:11,14 43:13 39:25 40:12,13 16:19,24 17:11
18:17 19:2,4,6 lo 10:17 metaphysics 20:17 23:9,10
55:1 19:12,15,15,18 long 14:25 15:3 39:14 40:22 30:6 31:22
19:3 27:1 41:1 32:5 34:6,23
5:2,7 27:18 28:2 look 14:3 17:19 minimums 6:20 42:10 43:21
8:4,12,23 30:5 31:8 32:3 22:22 27:10 53:1 45:15 50:12
13:18 34:20,23 35:2 38:10 44:12 Minn 1:16,19 54:13
21:17,21 35:5,7 36:5 48:9 52:24 Minneapolis newly 9:24
31:4,13 37:5,11,24 Lorton 52:3 1:16,19 non-retroactive
outset 30:9 46:11,12 51:24 post-conviction proceedings
outweigh 19:25 petition 27:13 44:16 52:8 46:16 47:13,14
overlooking Petitioner 1:4 49:22 process 10:17
43:3,6 overturn 28:2 4:6 38:5,8 power 10:4,6,10 32:10 37:10
13:7 overturned Petitioner's 9:3 28:1 40:12 49:22 51:12
precedent 45:15 propelling 43:9
part 6:8 12:1 places 26:7 prevail 38:4,5 prosecutorial
30:21 30:21 31:10,19 52:21 50:2,3
passed 17:7 36:7,8,8 37:6 prior 8:18 provides 16:22
passes 16:22 40:5,6 44:4 prisoners 3:12 providing 33:16
40:20 PATRICK 1:18 46:20 49:17 private 31:15 provision 18:21
2:5 30:1 50:14 52:13 probably 20:13 47:14
pending 6:16 pointed 6:21 51:22 14:16
34:12,18 54:13 points 7:20 8:23 5:2 41:22 purporting
37:23 32:16 policy 3:19 7:8 50:6
people 26:4,4 7:25 8:4 problematic Q
perceptive 38:14 39:9 11:21 12:9 5:12,13,16
39:21 40:3 posture 12:9,11 38:25 46:3 20:2,6,6,8 27:2
30:14,23 redo 37:18 32:14 45:21 24:12,13 25:4 25:1 27:9
32:15 references 40:14 rendered 53:23 25:15,20 26:14 31:11 40:2
36:1 refers 6:25 53:24 26:19 27:1 45:9 46:2
refined 11:2 reply 4:19 31:7 45:3 51:24 53:4
43:19 regard 38:3 representing retroactively ROBERTS 3:3
48:14 regardless 43:24 37:20 6:24 11:8,18 6:19 7:13
52:1,7,12 regime 5:3,10 require 13:10,15 15:21 17:3,8 11:15,24 13:23
54:3 43:10 35:7 41:11 17:13 24:4,5,7 16:20 17:10,23
regulating 47:12 54:16 40:19 41:21 25:18 27:16
35:23 rejection 43:6 14:8 17:12 11:12 15:3,17 53:14 54:20
44:8,9 relates 45:9 26:3,5 45:17 22:10 23:4,6 55:1
relief 19:5 34:9 37:23 38:18 30:5,9,13,14 rule 3:25 4:1
rely 44:4 50:17 50:17 40:15 42:21 7:18,25 8:1,5
19:2 28:22 29:15 18:17 10:13 11:20,21
45:2 42:20 43:3 19:5 51:3 32:5,12,23 16:19 20:11
50:21 19:19 25:2 reserve 29:22 43:1 51:18,18 23:9,10 27:4
41:14 resources 44:20 reviewing 22:4 32:24 33:4,21
14:5,8 16:23 43:10 45:14 31:1 43:7 35:2,2,5,6,21
35:8 19:4,13 25:4,9 1:19 2:6 29:7 13:24 14:5 48:18 49:10,11
37:15 25:10,13,15,17 30:2 17:24 18:1 50:4,12,25
25:20,22,24 responsible 6:2 20:2 23:23 52:14,16
51:22,23 27:9,10,14,15 rests 19:11 27:20,21,22,24 9:19 14:16
30:11,22,25 retroactive 8:16 35:16 37:2 29:15 40:13,14
53:17 35:18,23 44:9 11:6 14:22,23 45:10 49:23,24 40:25 41:6
remedy-and-r... 16:16,17,24 52:9,9 54:13
27:21 sets 6:14 26:18 so-called 31:22 37:5,8,9,11,12 strong 19:25
40:11 setting 12:6 specific 23:16 37:20,21,23,25 subject 12:23
43:25 settings 14:14 30:15 38:1,12,13,16 26:17,21 36:16
49:22 settled 36:4,5 Spinonza 41:11 38:25 41:20 submitted 55:3
52:2,18 37:1 44:2,8 square 43:3,5 43:11,15,20,20 55:5
16:15,23 short 17:17 stand 42:12 45:5,7,10,13 7:11 18:23
20:11 shows 20:25 standard 29:5 45:25 46:2,15 21:15 27:1,24
23:9 silence 41:9 30:15 31:21 46:16,21,21,22 36:5 44:10
34:9 similarly 33:16 38:13,15 43:1 46:22 47:13 substantive 5:15
44:25 simpler 41:10 43:1 47:2 48:6,12,17,22 7:1,3,21 8:13
49:6 41:12 49:12 49:5 50:21,22 12:1,1 18:24
simply 5:9 21:4 standards 46:23 51:5,5,9,14 19:20,20 22:19
41:13 54:18,22 start 21:22 54:23 28:14 30:14
10:9 sit 28:25 started 41:13,23 states 1:1,12 31:9,11 32:3
15:5 situated 33:16 45:20 6:23 15:17 32:24 33:4
16:6 situation 20:9 starts 16:14 25:12 26:24 34:16,17 39:7
21:2,6 45:9 state 1:15 3:12 28:19 36:2,23 45:1 49:23,24
33:24 six 29:4 3:12,15,16,18 37:2,17 38:24 substantively
35:8,20 Sixth 7:11 18:24 3:18,19,20,24 43:12 50:16 4:11
41:25 26:2 4:2,6,7,9,14,15 51:20,23 52:25 suggest 6:9
22:18 Smith 31:5,9,14 5:14 6:5,21,22 State's 19:11 suggestion
46:6 39:19 7:21,24 8:19 37:3 50:11 13:12
18:7 54:8 11:22 12:10,22 49:1 52:17 supports 29:14
sorry 48:13 14:9,20,22 statutory 19:15 Suppose 50:23
36:11 37:22 16:25 17:8,13 step 37:17 supreme 1:1,12
35:3 54:8 19:15,22 20:1 27:3,6,13 30:8 52:24
45:10,13 Souter 19:1,9,10 20:3,4,9,14,16 30:18 34:21 Sure 18:13
53:7 19:15 22:16 20:21 21:2,9 35:15 39:6 surprise 40:23
23:15,19,23 21:11,13 22:2 41:2,13,23 40:25
44:3 48:5 term 30:9 three 39:15,16 24:14 14:7,11 20:7
terms 12:16 tied 4:10 underlying 7:16 40:21,22,24
40:2 time 9:2,3 10:20 understand 7:14 42:3,6
21:12 territory 43:15 39:22 40:1,4 49:10 12:18 13:6,7
29:3,4 test 11:1 22:13 41:15,16,16 understandable 13:14 18:7
43:13 26:1 49:25 53:7 34:18 21:9 25:6,8,14
text 10:5 54:18 understanding 26:1,12 27:8
thank 29:23,23 today 11:11 25:7 47:5 29:18 30:10,21
32:4 theoretically 4:5 told 37:12 33:15 36:2 violations 29:17
thing 9:9,18 totally 25:13 44:16 virtue 41:22
7:8,9 8:11,22 9:11 trial 10:16 12:23 upsetting 53:22 want 8:19 10:19
11:1 9:12 11:19,22 27:15 32:25 use 22:15 29:11 18:20 21:11,17
12:7 11:25 15:4 40:3 41:16,16 30:9 34:6 25:23,25 26:11
14:13 16:12,25 17:5 41:17 44:20,22 usually 11:2,11 26:12 28:11
19:17 17:16,17,18 trials 23:21 11:12 44:7 36:23 38:25
18:3 19:19,19 37:18 39:16 39:10 41:25
21:11 21:7,22,23 40:1 V 42:4 43:16
24:16 25:1,16 Trucking 18:4 v 1:5 3:4 12:16 45:1,15,18
23:5 27:17,23 30:12 43:6 48:10 51:11 46:18 50:24
35:21 30:16 32:8 true 7:6 20:10 validity 8:1 52:15
39:3 34:3 35:11 21:7,23 value 36:24 wanted 28:12
41:14,19 36:14,23 38:7 try 47:20 values 36:25 wants 14:9
38:9 40:5 42:9 turn 8:23 varied 33:8 41:20 46:16
44:1 42:14,19,21,23 Turner 41:1 various 12:13 52:14
45:2 43:2,19 44:7 42:1 vary 31:22 Washington 1:8
47:4,5 44:11 45:7 two 5:13 12:16 vehicle 40:17 wasn't 9:21
48:15,18 46:6 47:21 29:3 31:12 versus 12:3 10:16 20:18
49:1,17 50:5 32:7 38:20 victims 44:4 40:2
51:4,6,16,21 39:24 40:1 view 9:23 12:22 watershed 7:17
52:2,18 52:19 53:6,8 50:10 53:20 21:13 30:20 way 4:22 14:3
54:3 thinks 29:7,7,13 32:1 35:13 19:4 25:19
15:16,21 19:17 unable 45:24 vindicating Wednesday 1:9
37:7,15 underlies 23:5 violated 5:24 53:21
11 44:21
8:15,21 2 4:19
20:17,19 2007 1:9
42:9
43:15 3
51:23 3 2:4
30 2:6
2:9
43:23
41:25
1:5
