IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
SAFECO INSURANCE :
COMPANY OF AMERICA, ET :
AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 06-84
CHARLES BURR, ET AL.; :
and :
GEICO GENERAL INSURANCE :
COMPANY, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 06-100
AJENE EDO. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 16, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MAUREEN E. MAHONEY, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the
Petitioners.
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Petitioners.
SCOTT A. SHORR, Portland, Ore.; on behalf of the
Respondents.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MAUREEN E. MAHONEY
On behalf of the Petitioners 4
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PATRICIA A. MILLETT
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting Petitioners 18
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SCOTT A. SHORR
On behalf of the Respondents 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MAUREEN E. MAHONEY
On behalf of Petitioners 48
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in 06-84, Safeco Insurance Company
versus Burr, and 06-100, GEICO General Insurance Company
versus Edo.
Ms. Mahoney.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN E. MAHONEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MS. MAHONEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I'd like to turn first to the Ninth
Circuit's interpretation of the term "willfully" and its
determination that the case had to be remanded for
further proceedings to permit an opportunity to explore
Petitioners' communications with their counsel. We ask
this Court to find that there is no necessity for any
such inquiry for waivers of attorney-client privilege
because summary judgment should have been affirmed in
this case.
Petitioners and their counsel, if you think
about what communications you might find, they could not
have known anything more about these statutory issues of
first impression than the district court did. It's
questions of law. And if the district court's opinion
does not reflect reckless disregard for the law, for the
reading of the statute, then it would be inappropriate
to characterize Petitioners' adoption of the very same
views as either a knowing or reckless violation of the,
of the FCRA.
The first -- the Ninth Circuit nevertheless
reached a contrary conclusion, and said it was time to
go ahead and look at privileged communications if the
Petitioners wanted to defend the case, because they made
self-interpretive errors about the meaning of willfully.
And the first is that they read willfully in
this setting to mean recklessly, and relied on several
cases where this Court has read the term willfully in
civil statutes to mean recklessly.
But this Court has said repeatedly that the
word willfully is contextual, that you have to look at
all of the sections of the statute to see how it's used
to determine whether it means with knowledge that your
conduct violates the law, or whether reckless violations
are sufficient. And in this particular statute, unlike
the other three that were at issue, Congress has used
the term willfully in other sections of the law to mean,
as Plaintiffs concede, that the Defendant knows that
their conduct violates the Act.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's also used in the
phrase "knowing and willfully." That appears in several
other parts of the statute, and that wouldn't make any
sense if the only meaning of willful is knowing.
MS. MAHONEY: Well, it actually says
"willfully and knowingly --"
JUSTICE SCALIA: In one formulation or
another, but it combines the two words, knowing and
willful.
MS. MAHONEY: Well, this Court, though, has
held that willfully and knowingly, when that phrase is
used together, it's been discussed in a number of cases
including Dixon recently, that it means -- willfully
means knowledge that the conduct violates the law, and
knowingly means knowledge of the relevant facts. And
that would make perfect sense in this setting, and so
the term willfully when, again, used --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You mean willfully alone?
MS. MAHONEY: It --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where -- where it -- where
it means what you think it means, which is knowingly,
that does not mean knowing the facts? If you mistake
the facts and are laboring under a misimpression of the
facts, you have nonetheless willfully violated the law?
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, in Ratzlaf, the
phrase was willfully, not willfully and knowingly, and
the Court held that it meant that you knew that your
conduct violated the law. And that seems to be the most
reasonable reading here because if you look, there are
also sections of Section 1681n that refer to knowing
conduct, and that would require the conclusion that
Congress used willfully in this section to mean a -- a
less -- a more -- a less culpable mens rea than
knowingly. And that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that if you're
the CEO of your company, and a lawyer -- Federal counsel
comes in and says we've got a real issue under the Fair
Credit Reporting Act, I need to brief you on that, we
need to make an important decision about whether we are
complying, you say I don't want to hear about it, I
don't want to know about it. That would not be
willfully violating the statute?
MS. MAHONEY: Well, under -- some cases have
suggested that there could be a willful blindness
instruction that would govern whether you define that as
knowing or not. Certainly --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it doesn't have
to be actual knowledge?
MS. MAHONEY: I think that the best reading
of knowingly is actual knowledge or something that is,
that is everything but, you know, that really is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How about reckless
disregard?
MS. MAHONEY: Well, conscious disregard is a
recklessness standard, and even if the Ninth Circuit
correctly determined that this should be interpreted as
a recklessness standard, this Court has defined
recklessness to mean that it has to be conscious
disregard, actual knowledge of a high risk of, of -- of
harm or in this case illegality. And in these
circumstances, you can't say that there was a high risk
of illegality because what the district court found is
that the Petitioners' interpretations of the statute
were actually not only reasonable, but correct, and
having --
JUSTICE ALITO: Since the term knowingly or
knowing appears in two places in 1681n, can't we infer
from that that willfully in that provision also means
something different?
MS. MAHONEY: I think the way it's used, it
says knowing, knowingly that they did not have a
permissible purpose. Permissible purpose, that may not
be knowledge of the law, it just may be knowledge that
your purpose wasn't permissible. And even if they were
using it --
JUSTICE ALITO: I thought the statute says
what the permissible purposes are.
MS. MAHONEY: It does, but it doesn't
necessarily mean that the individual knew precisely what
the statute said. Because for instance, users are told
what the permissible purposes are when they get a credit
report from, from a credit agency. But more
importantly, Your Honor, I think that the use of the
term knowingly there can also be explained.
If you look at Section 1681h, it actually
provides that certain tort actions cannot proceed unless
there is a willful intent to injure, except as provided
in Section 1681n, and they are the same kinds of actions
that are carved out in 1681n.
And so I think it was to make clear, I think
it was to make clear that you didn't have to have a
willful intent to injure. So even if they meant it to
be interchangeable with a knowing violation of the law
there, I think there was a reason for it, it wasn't just
surplusage. It was to clarify that they didn't have to
have a willful intent to violate.
JUSTICE BREYER: Would you say it's all
right to use the model penal code definition of
reckless, which is basically what you -- taking it here,
you would have to consciously disregard a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that the action is unlawful?
MS. MAHONEY: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: If you come across anything
that would use that, I mean "reckless" itself is
unclear. The model penal code tried to clarify it based
on this Court's opinions primarily.
MS. MAHONEY: But I think you can look to
the way this Court described recklessness in Farmer vs.
Brennan as well, though, as well as --
JUSTICE BREYER: What's the difference?
MS. MAHONEY: The difference is just, there
is two forms of recklessness. One which says that if
the risk is sufficiently high, if a person should have
known, you could be -- you could be liable. But that
the form of recklessness that Congress presumably used
here in this setting, where there is the potential for
very punitive sanctions, was what is referred to --
Farmer versus Brennan calls it "criminal," the criminal
recklessness standard.
And that means that not only do you have to
have an objectively high risk of illegality, but you
must be actually conscious of that risk. But in this
case, you don't even need to get to the issue of
consciousness.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you said there is no
way they couldn't have been conscious of the risk here.
I mean, after all, that's why they went to lawyers.
They know there's risk that this is unlawful.
MS. MAHONEY: The question is --
JUSTICE BREYER: But consciousness, I mean,
maybe it should come in in the standard, but I don't
know that that would help you.
MS. MAHONEY: I think the issue of conscious
-- the risk, though, it has to be a high risk. And if
it is a reasonable interpretation of the statute, or
even if it is an interpretation of the statute that is
fairly debatable, that you have a fair chance of
success, then how can you say that is a high risk of
illegality, so high that we should say that Congress
wanted to sanction you for taking that position?
And for saying that, you know, you shouldn't
be permitted to adopt a compliance program if there was
a fair ground for believing that it was lawful. And
here what the Ninth Circuit did --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose there is a fair
ground for believing it was lawful. Lawyers are in
disagreement, but in fact, I believe the lawyers who say
it is unlawful, and I nonetheless go ahead and do it.
Is that a willful violation?
MS. MAHONEY: I don't, I don't think so,
Your Honor, if, in fact, it was a fair ground for -- -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But I think I'm violating.
MS. MAHONEY: I don't -- yes. But you
couldn't know you were violating it, and because if it
really is a fair ground for litigation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm a better lawyer than my
advisors.
(Laughter.)
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, I think if it's an
area where the law is truly unsettled. And here an
issue of first impression, a lawyer's assessment that
you may lose is inherently predictive. These are not
true or false answers when there is almost nothing to go
on.
And so in that area, it's much like what
this Court did in Screws, where it said that this was a
case involving a willful violation of, or interference
with rights secured by -- by Federal law. And what the
Court says, well, it's not just any bad purpose that
Congress had in mind, it is a bad purpose to defy
announced rules of law. They have to be, there has to
be sufficient clarity in the law to say that there was a
high risk of illegality that you could disregard.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would you look to the
subjective intent of the actor at all?
MS. MAHONEY: Only --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or would you just look to
the outcome and say, well, you know, it was a close
question, so even if the actor indeed thought he was in
violation, it was a close question; it's okay?
MS. MAHONEY: I don't think you would look
at the intent until you found that there -- there was no
reasonable ground or at least no, no -- no fair ground
for debate about the question. And at that point, Your
Honor, if there was an objectively high risk of
illegality, then you do have to ask, what were they
consciously aware of; what did they do?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I must say that -- that is
not the normal meaning of willful, willfully violating
the law.
MS. MAHONEY: Well, I think in Screws --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're changing it to mean
willfully, willfully and blatantly violating the law.
MS. MAHONEY: I don't think so.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, if I know that what
I'm doing is in violation of the law, even if it's a
close question, it seems to me I am willfully violating
the law.
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, Screws says you
can't know the unknowable. And if the law, if it's
really, truly an issue of first impression, you may
think you're violating the law, but you -- you can't
know the unknowable. And that's why this setting is so
important, because you can't, you know, put -- impose
sanctions. Here we're talking about the potential for
an industry facing billions of dollars without any
actual harm to -- to individuals. And that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it really billions?
How many of these have been certified as class actions?
MS. MAHONEY: I believe that there are two
certified class actions. But many -- there are many
cases pending and it could be billions of dollars, Your
Honor. Certainly if the classes are certified, and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you, would you, as
representative of the insurers, would you have a sound
objection to class action certification in these cases?
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, I'm sure there
would be some bases to resist. But classes have been
certified, so I --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And gone to, gone to
judgment?
MS. MAHONEY: I do not believe any have gone
to judgment, but I don't, I don't -- I think that the
point is that if you allow a thousand dollar penalty or
the potential for a thousand dollar penalty for every
consumer who didn't get a notice, simply because they
may have gotten a better price if they had even better
credit, across the country, if you interpret the statute
that way, and then you can say you can get this thousand
dollar, what is in essence a penalty, and you multiply
that by the number of consumers, then you certainly have
the potential for very, very substantial liability.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's a question how many
will sue for a thousand dollars, given the litigation
costs.
MS. MAHONEY: Well, given that these are
proceeding as class actions, the answer is there is
plenty on the line to incentivize plaintiffs' attorneys
to bring these class actions, and they have been
brought, and this is a class action. There are two
class actions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They haven't -- neither
has been certified, has it?
MS. MAHONEY: No, it has not. They are
putative class actions, Your Honor. But I, but I think
that whether it's a class action or not, we have to look
at what did, what did Congress presumably have in mind
when it authorized these kinds of penalties and punitive
damages based on a willful violation in a technical area
where there is no potential for harm? And certainly --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I have just two, two
questions on, on willful and then -- because you may
want to talk about the other issue in the case. First,
you began by saying that here a district judge has come
to the contrary conclusion; by definition, it can't be
reckless. Do you have any authority, where we -- for
that proposition, where we have said that?
MS. MAHONEY: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We find all the time that
a right is not clearly established under AEDPA, and so
forth -- and disregard what I just said. That's my
first question.
And the second is willfully, as Screws
itself makes very clear, it is interpreted differently
in the criminal context than it is in the civil context.
MS. MAHONEY: Except Screws, Your Honor,
actually says that it was adopting a criminal
recklessness standard, not a knowing standard, but a
reckless standard. And that is the same standard that
has been applied in the civil cases that use willfully
in the punitive damages context.
So I think it's exactly the same standard in
that Screws does say that the, you can't have, it can't
just be a bad purpose, that it has to have been a bad
purpose to violate clearly defined rules. And this
Court has said in various contexts in the, in the
qualified immunity area that picking the losing side
does not mean that your conduct was objectively, you
know, wrongful.
And that's really -- I think that there is
great significance to the district court's ruling. I'm
not saying that in every case, it would absolutely be
dispositive. I think you have to look at what was the,
you know, the clarity of the law, what was the reasoning
of the district court. But what the Ninth Circuit did
is that it, in essence, said that you can't rely on
creative but unlikely answers to issues of first
impression.
Well, if an administration official goes to
a lawyer in the administration and asks about a course
of conduct, and is told, well, it's completely an issue
of first impression, there is probably a 40 percent
chance of success, do you say it's reckless to proceed
on that basis?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, just because
an issue is one of first impression doesn't mean there's
a high degree of uncertainty. The statute may be
clearly addressed to that issue. It hasn't come up
before.
MS. MAHONEY: Absolutely, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: First impression.
MS. MAHONEY: It certainly -- this Court has
made clear that if the language of the statute is very
plain, then, of course, that can be noticed, that can be
adequate warning. But certainly this statute doesn't
satisfy that standard. Congress didn't provide the
benchmarks that you have to use for comparison to
determine whether there has been an increase in a charge
or whether there has been an adverse action based on the
consumer report. You need benchmarks to answer those
questions, and there aren't any regulations and there
were no cases.
If I could save the balance of my time for
rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Ms. Millett.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Court of Appeals correctly concluded
that willfulness in the civil context, as is used here,
includes a reckless disregard component or a
recklessness component. That is what this Court has
held in a number of cases that have similar uses of
willfulness focused on a departure from the law, have
held. Thurston, Richland Shoe and Hazen Paper are the
three that have been most discussed in the case, in the
papers here.
But where the Ninth Circuit misstepped here
was in the application of that standard. And in
particular, we agreed with Petitioners that when it
concluded that a creative but unlikely position
constitutes recklessness, it erred. Recklessness speaks
an extreme deviation from an ordinary standard of care.
It requires that the defendant act in the face of or
fail to act --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It is a subjective
standard or an objective standard?
MS. MILLETT: It has both in this context.
It is, I think, first and foremost, an objective
component, because there is -- this is a civil case.
It's not purely subjective. And that objective
component is very important because that is what makes
the act or inaction reckless, and that is the risk.
There has to be an objectively high and obvious risk.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So if the potential
liability, as in these cases, is huge, then you have to
be even more careful because there is liability so
great. So is it the greater the liability -- the
greater chance of recklessness, the greater the
potential liability?
MS. MILLETT: No, to the extent you're
talking about dollar liability, I don't think that's
true. I do think it's fair to say that in recklessness
generally in the tort law, the more serious an injury
that could result, can -- we'll tolerate less risk. If
the risk is causing serious bodily injury or death to
somebody, we'll -- the law will tolerate a lesser degree
of risk than it will if, if it's simply causing, you
know, a delay in something or a sort of paper injury or
maybe even a dollar injury.
And it's not set. It's a variable
calculation. So in that sense, it is. I don't think
that when we talk about a high and objective risk in
this context, we are talking about the dollars that a,
that a company would have to pay, although I'm sure they
are interested in hearing about that from their lawyers.
What we are talking about here -- and this
is a very unusual statute the way it's written -- the
liability itself, not just the damages, but the
liability itself turns upon the extent of departure from
law. You have to -- there is no recovery here like
there is in almost -- or commonly in Federal statutes
for just a violation. That isn't it.
You have to show either a willful violation
or a negligent violation, and that requires a
determination not only that the defendants violated the
law, but a determination as to how much, how far, how
many standard deviations from correct their position was
and that is an objective determination.
Once an objectively high risk has been found
by a court, then -- then the case can shift to looking
into subjective things. I think a plaintiff would be
entitled, once an objectively high and obvious risk has
been found by the court, to rely on that, and allow a
jury to, or a judge, whoever is deciding the case, to
infer the existence of willfulness from that. And
that's often when defendants -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I also ask, do you
agree with the Petitioner on the meaning of adverse
action?
MS. MILLETT: No, we agree with Respondents
on the meaning of adverse action.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Correct me if I'm
wrong. You think if I have an insurance policy, I'm
paying a certain rate, they look at my credit report and
they say, you know, good news, we're going to lower your
rates, that's an adverse action because they might have
lowered the rates even further if they had notified me
about the credit report and there were some errors in
it?
MS. MILLETT: Right. It's a complicated
answer, in part because that assumes that you have an
existing account and you're not an initial account here.
And when you have an existing account, there's a
definition of adverse action for insurance provisions,
but in iv there is a separate, there's another
definition, and this is on, on page -- sorry. Excuse
me. On page 3A of the appendix to our brief, iv under
big I -- I'm sorry, there's a lot of provisions -- talks
about reviewing an existing account, and it
cross-referenced another provision which talks about
reviewing an account for purposes of termination. And
that would include, in our view, not only completely
canceling it, but terminating the existing and charging
you more for allowing you now to pay a new rate. So
which would govern in that particular context is a
little bit harder.
But it could, and here's logically why,
because I think the understanding of "increase" that's
at issue here is one that's very basic to the operation
of this statute, and that is, did the content of your
information in your credit report, if it had been
better, could you have had a better rate or a better
deal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MS. MILLETT: So have you been hit in the
pocketbook.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if they lower, if
they lower the rates, you still say that that fits the
meaning of adverse action because they might have
lowered them further if the information hadn't been
erroneous?
MS. MILLETT: It could have, and here -- in
this sense, it could be: In the same way that I, sort
of the flip side, but in my office, if everybody in the
hallway gets a 5 percent salary increase and I only get
a 1 percent salary increase, I am certainly better off,
but if the reason I got a lesser increase is because of
my gender or because of my credit report, it's an
adverse action. So the fact that you're doing somewhat
better doesn't mean --
JUSTICE BREYER: That isn't how the statute
defines it.
MS. MILLETT: Excuse me?
JUSTICE BREYER: The statute says an adverse
action is an increase in a charge for -- in connection
with underwriting.
MS. MILLETT: But it also --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what it says. And
then it says an increase is -- and if you take an
adverse action, i.e., if you increase it, and your
increase is based in whole or in part on information
contained in a consumer report, you have to send the
thing. How did you get -- in your example, there was no
increase. I mean, in a charge. In your salary, it's a
decrease in the salary. Same thing.
MS. MILLETT: The definition again on 3A
includes not just increase, but includes an unfavorable
change in the terms. And so it's not settled whether --
JUSTICE BREYER: You mean unfavorable change
in terms, unfavorable change in terms.
MS. MILLETT: Exactly.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, suppose you don't
have, you don't have any terms because you never did it
before. There's no change in terms.
MS. MILLETT: If you're a new customer --
and again, I want to reiterate that, how this applies to
existing accounts is complicated --
JUSTICE BREYER: You mean those words
"change in terms" refer to rates, in other words?
That's a rather odd way to refer to it. In one place,
you refer to an "increase"; in the other place, you'd
refer to it as a "change in terms." That's sort of an
odd way to write a statute.
MS. MILLETT: Well, you can have a change in
terms that is not necessarily an increase. It could be
you will no longer be entitled to a free rental car when
your car is in for repair for some reason. That's not
an increase.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, I understand that.
But what we're after is this. Everybody has a credit
report, just about. You put it in and you give people
the best possible rate conceivable, and now, how do you
know that maybe there could have still been a better
rate? And it can't be that the statute intends you to
send out notices in such circumstances or you'd have to
send notices whenever you read a credit report. Now, I
think that's, I've overstated slightly, but that's
basically the argument. So what's your response?
MS. MILLETT: And Justice Breyer, my
response is that if the content of the information in
your credit report would have made you -- had it been
better information you'd have gotten a better rate, a
better result, your pocketbook wouldn't have been hit as
hard, you have a dollars and cents injury because of the
content of the information, then you had an adverse
action.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, so your response is
just to repeat my question and say that's right?
MS. MILLETT: No. If I could continue on
that, if I could add on, if I could add on, the way
insurance companies work is they don't have 3 million
customers and 3 million rates. They have ranges and
most of them will have a top tier. They may have
specialized things for employees, but putting aside a
specialized category, there's a top range and they will
tell you, as they say in the briefs, that 10 to 15
percent of people fit in there. So they know what the
best rate is. They know what the next, above average
rate, the standard rate.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do you fit, how do you
fit that within the language of the statute? Is it, I
fail -- you're a first- time customer and I fail to give
you a, you know, a break that maybe you could have had.
Is it a denial or cancellation of insurance? No. Is it
an increase in, an increase in any charge for insurance?
Is it a reduction or other adverse or unfavorable change
in the terms of coverage or in the amount of any
insurance? I find it hard to shoehorn your case into
that language.
MS. MILLETT: Well, to begin with, that may
be why Petitioners' position here certainly was not
reckless and the Ninth Circuit erred. But we do think
that the statutory language read as a whole supports
this. It could be a denial of a particular term in an
insurance contract. But you have to look at -- it's
important to understand you look --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I read the term as, as one
of the Justices here does, not referring to the rate.
The earlier part refers to the rate. An increase in any
charge for, that's the rate. And then it speaks of
change in the terms of coverage. I mean, that is, you
know, whether it covers hurricanes, or in the amount of
the insurance, whether you're insured for --
MS. MILLETT: Or it could be a reduction in
the terms. I mean, these things are statutory
construction issues to be litigated, and the important
issue here -- and they are presented in this case.
They're to be litigated and the important issue is that
when there is fair debate about these issues insurance
companies will not be held to be willfully violating the
statute if they got the answer wrong.
But I think on the, on the substantive
question, it's important to read "adverse action" in
light of, if I could just finish the sentence, in light
of the definition of when a notice is required to be
issued, which turns upon the content of the information
in the report.
Thank you.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is where?
MS. MILLETT: And that's on page 6a on our
appendix.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Shorr.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT A. SHORR
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. SHORR: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
When Congress intended to require a knowing
violation of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, it expressly
said so. It did not do so in connection with the claims
here under Section 1681n(a)(1)(A). In each instance
where Congress wanted to allow -- to require a higher
mens rea, it said so and did so in connection with
liability that was greater. They required knowing mens
rea for the criminal provision. They required knowing
mens rea to obtain the even higher statutory damages
that are available under the act.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What do you say to the
argument from drafting history that looks at the history
both of little n and little o and it points out that as
originally, in the original bill, little o providing for
the actual damages required a finding of gross
negligence? Little n used the word "willful" just as it
does now, suggesting that willful would not include
gross negligence or something close to gross negligence
like recklessness. Then in, then in o, they changed the
standard from gross negligence to mere negligence, but
they made no change in n, which suggests that n stayed
whatever it always was, and if the argument from
contrast was that n probably meant knowing rather than
reckless, it stayed knowing even when the standard was
changed to negligence in o. What do you say to that
argument?
MR. SHORR: Justice Souther, I think the
only thing we can say about that is Congress reduced the
culpability for the actual damages from gross negligence
to negligence. I don't think that tells us much about
willful means, what willful means as a separate matter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the fact that they had
originally drafted n as it is, in contrast to the
original o, does tell us, doesn't it, something about
what they had in mind in n. And they must have had
something in mind, probably had in mind, something in n
which was a standard higher than gross negligence.
MR. SHORR: No, Justice Souter, I suggest
that what you can infer from that is that, if anything,
is perhaps Congress wanted to move, make clear that
under o the actual damages aren't close to willful or
reckless, so they reduced gross negligence to negligence
in that circumstance. But that still doesn't tell us
separately what "willful" meant, and of course "willful"
had been interpreted by this Court in similar cases
involving similar statutes to mean a knowing or reckless
disregard. And I respectfully disagree with --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I mean, there's no
question it has been and that is sort of the usual
reading in the civil context. But we also keep
repeating, you know, "willful" is a word of many
meanings and you always look to the context. And here
the argument is that if you look to the context of the,
of the two statutory sections right up next to each
other, you can draw a, an inference about what "willful"
means.
MR. SHORR: I think if anything, Justice
Souter, here the context should be the actual statutory
terms used, and in Section 1681n(b) they expressly
required the knowing standard and that's a knowing
violation of the law, as Justice Alito's question seemed
to draw out, a knowing impermissible purpose. And the
statute directly defines what a permissible purpose is
under this law.
So that reference to knowing could not refer
to a knowing, knowing the facts. And of course, willful
in some sense always includes some knowledge of the
factual circumstances.
In addition, the logical structure of the
act -- as I mentioned, we had negligence and actual
damages. We have a reckless standard, a knowing or
reckless standard for certain statutory damages, but
then an even higher level for the criminal and higher
statutory penalty provisions. And as I started to say,
a willful, knowing, reckless standard is entirely
consistent with how this Court has interpreted the term
in similar civil statutes that were in fact passed about
the same time the Hazen Paper case and Thurston and
McLaughlin cases interpreting the ADA and the FLSA and
other similar cases.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, even if
you're right about the standard, how can you suggest
that it's willful here when you have no judicial
construction, you have no administrative construction,
you have the statutory language that at least the
questions this morning have suggested is not perfectly
clear? How can you suggest that the action of the
companies on this case even under your standard was
willful?
MR. SHORR: Mr. Chief Justice, of course we
believe and the statute is in fact clear, you do not
need further interpretation by the Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if we don't agree
with you on that, you would lose on the application of
the willfulness standard?
MR. SHORR: If you don't agree with us --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In other words,
your, your, your conclusion that this was a willful
violation depends upon your assertion that the statute
is perfectly clear?
MR. SHORR: I think that there is a level of
objective component that the statute at least has to be
understood by a reasonable person at some level using
standard statutory construction. But that isn't to
suggest that the statute needs to be interpreted by a
higher court or even a district court for counsel to get
guidance. And of course, in this case, there was no
guidance supporting Respondents -- excuse me -- no
guidance supporting Petitioners', defendants', position.
In fact, the only guidance supported our position,
including guidance from the FTC.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're talking about
the Ball letter?
MR. SHORR: I am talking about the Ball
letter.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That wasn't even
binding on the commission, so why would that be regarded
as authoritative?
MR. SHORR: It was not, and we are not
suggesting it is, although it's entitled to Chevron
deference. But if you get past the minimal level of
objective standard, the question becomes what indicia
and markers were out there that would have guided this
company as to whether there was a high risk that they
were violating the act. And certainly the Ball letter,
which was sent by the staff specifically to address this
exact question and to guide insurance companies, gave
notice and it said charging anyone a higher amount than
the best available rate based on their credit score was
an adverse action. And in addition, there was --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, how could that be? I
mean I agree that the statute is clear, but I think it's
clear the other way. That is, if you look at the
language, as you've just heard, if you look at the
purpose it's very hard to reconcile with the purpose an
instance where a person has continuous accidents. He's
a reckless driver. His insurance company puts him in
just a category below the bottom and they read his
credit report and they discover, despite his faults, he
always pays his bills on time. So they increase it, not
to the top category, but they give him a much better
deal. And you're saying this statute means that what I
just described is an adverse action based on a credit
report?
MR. SHORR: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Okay. And then if
you're going to say yes, I want to hear why yes, and
then in light of the following: The little boy who says
wolf. You're probably puzzled what I mean by that. I
mean that if you're right in that interpretation, there
will be tens of millions of notices going out and
they'll have the same effect on the public that these
privacy notices have today. We get them every day,
dozens of them, and they go right in the wastebasket,
because they will become meaningless because to an
average person that notice will not mean that he better
look at his credit report. It will mean throw it in the
wastebasket.
All right, now I've got the purpose, I've
got the language, and I have what I think of as common
sense. Now, you explain why it's obvious the opposite.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is a different
question. We've been talking about willful up to now.
MR. SHORR: Yes, and this is the adverse
action question.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You haven't addressed
adverse action at all.
MR. SHORR: And I'm happy to do so now.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. But, was there
anything further on willful? You said that the statute
was clear enough and you had the FTC informal advice,
but now we know that courts have divided on this
question, right? On --
MR. SHORR: Divided in the sense -- well,
the Ninth Circuit of course overturned the district
court's ruling so there's no current division, but if
that's what you mean, yes, Your Honor.
In a -- I guess I'll address quickly your
question. There's additional guidance provided by the
FTC that was subject to formal rulemaking and that was
16 CFR, I believe it's Part 601 Appendix C, and in that
instance the FTC, again subject to formal notice and
comment of rulemaking, said that the statute is defined
very broadly and it includes any action that can even be
considered to have a negative impact. And that plays in
the subjective aspect as well, but addressing your
question, Justice Breyer, first on the statutory
language --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's pretty sloppy
lawyering, don't you think, any action that even be
considered to have -- wow. This is a standard?
MR. SHORR: That was --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Any action that can even be
considered to have a negative impact.
MR. SHORR: That was guidance, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This is guidance?
MR. SHORR: That was guidance. That was
guidance to provide in the context of reading this
statute, it should be read broadly.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you know, I would tell
my CEO ignore that, that it's meaningless.
MR. SHORR: In addition, the CEO would have
the guidance provided by the Ball letter.
But again addressing your question, Justice
Breyer, an increase based on credit, if we had let's say
an increase based on race, someone goes in and has a
product to buy and there's the best rate, and they
charge someone else based on their race a higher rate,
certainly that's an increase based on credit. There's
only one best rate.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But this is not an
antidiscrimination provision. It doesn't say anyone who
discriminates in the setting of race has to send out
letters. It requires an adverse action. It requires an
increase in the charge.
MR. SHORR: And Your Honor, I was only using
that example to try and explain the statutory language.
JUSTICE BREYER: It doesn't explain it
because if you have an increase in the charge based on
race, of course that's an increase based on race.
MR. SHORR: Well, here we have --
JUSTICE BREYER: And if you refuse to give a
person the best rate, and lower his rate but not the
best rate, based on race, that is not an increase based
on race. That is discrimination based on race.
MR. SHORR: You're charging someone more
based on credit.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's true, and it's a
discrimination, but you didn't increase the rate. You
decreased it.
MR. SHORR: I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: It's still a
discrimination, it's still unlawful.
MR. SHORR: Applying it to credit, a natural
definition that is charging someone more than you charge
others is an increase.
JUSTICE ALITO: When you say more, in order
for there to be an adverse action there has to be an
increase or an unfavorable change. And when you have an
initial application you have to figure out what is the
baseline in order to determine whether there has been an
increase or an adverse action. And you and the
Solicitor General just assert that the baseline in that
situation is the best possible rate that you can get,
but I don't understand where that comes from.
MR. SHORR: Because charging someone more
than someone else who qualifies for that better rate
based on their credit, is increasing them, charging them
more, but it's also evident from the statutory purpose,
which I think was a question you asked --
JUSTICE BREYER: Let me look at the
language. Go back to give me -- because in ordinary
English, which I hope I speak, it is not an increase,
but maybe there is a technical term in the technical
language of commercial law or in FTC law where the word
increase means decrease. And if you -- is there
anything you want -- no. It's a serious question, at
least if you want to cite me to some authority that uses
this word increase in the way you just suggested.
MR. SHORR: We believe that it's a standard
dictionary definition, to charge someone more for
insurance than they would otherwise qualify for is
increasing their charge.
JUSTICE BREYER: Which dictionary shall I
look at?
MR. SHORR: I think we can look at any
dictionary. I don't have a cite, Your Honor, but --
JUSTICE SOUTER: They're making this
argument, and I think you got close to it a minute ago
when you alluded to statutory purpose. I think this is
what's behind, and you tell me if I'm wrong. One
purpose of the statute is to alert a consumer that the
consumer's credit report may contain errors which are
doing the consumer some kind of damage.
MR. SHORR: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And you want this consumer
alerted so the consumer can ask to see the report and
correct it if possible.
MR. SHORR: That's exactly right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Reading the adverse action
the way you read it, it would give the consumer or
consumers a tip-off in the maximum number of cases. In
every case in which the consumer might have done better
if the credit report had assumed different facts, on
your reading theoretically, the consumer is going to say
I want to look at that report and correct it if it's
wrong. But isn't the fallacy of that argument the
fallacy of saying because that is one object of the
statute, every term within the statute has got to be
read in a way that maximizes the effectuation of that
object? And the trouble that we're having on the bench
is that discrimination and increase are different terms.
Increase says the rate actually goes up from a baseline
that the consumer previously had, whereas discrimination
does not. And your reading in effect, increase to mean
discrimination in order to maximize the likelihood that
the consumer will look at the report, isn't that the
basis of your argument?
MR. SHORR: I think it has to be an increase
based on some aspect, but the only way to give effect to
that statutory purpose is an increase above what you
would otherwise qualify for had you had better credit
and of course --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, that's a way to give
every conceivable effect to that policy. But the
statute in drafting adverse, or drafting the terms of
adverse action, may very well have said we don't want to
give every conceivable effect to this purpose because if
we do, we'll get into the situation that Justice Breyer
described. Everybody will be getting notices and the
notices will be meaningless.
MR. SHORR: I don't think the notice is
problematic because you're alerting the consumer to
check that the information that the insurance company
expressly relied on to increase your charge --
JUSTICE SOUTER: To set the charge. I mean,
that's circular. To set the charge that it gives you.
MR. SHORR: I don't think you need a prior
charge to suffer an increase. If I walk into a candy
store and I've never purchased that candy before but the
best price that day is 5 cents but they say we're going
to charge you 10 cents, I've certainly suffered an
increase.
JUSTICE BREYER: By that you're talking
linguistically, but I am interested in the purpose. So
I looked up on the Internet approximately what percent
of the people have the best credit score and that's
about 1 percent. So 99 percent of the public doesn't
have the best possible credit score. Now I take it that
means that you could in fact, if it's even roughly
right, have 99 percent or a little less or even perhaps
a little more when they look at that report that, since
it's not perfect in 99 percent of the cases, it's quite
possible that they won't get the best conceivable rate
which might be reserved for just perfect people. And if
that's so, in 99 percent of the cases they'll send out
notices. And that's why I asked my question about the
boy who calls wolf. What will happen if 99 percent of
the people who apply for insurance or any other thing
get notices? I suspect that this is only intuitive,
that the notices are more likely to go into the
wastebasket than they are if there was really a
decrease. Now, do you have any light you can shed on
that?
MR. SHORR: Sure. The -- as an initial
matter, it's not the perfect credit that is the
standard, it's whatever would qualify you for GEICO's
best rate. And that's a much broader standard. We
don't know the exact amounts but if you look at GEICO JA
6768, they have fairly broad tiers, maybe five or six.
And of course not everyone is going to get the notice.
If your driving record totally eliminates -- if you have
great credit but your driving record eliminates the
possibility that you qualify for the better rate, you
wouldn't get notice in that circumstance either. But
the key to the notice is, if I have very good credit but
the information that the insurance company looks at is
incorrect, I will be charged more based on incorrect
information without ever having the opportunity to tell
the insurance company or whoever is collecting that
information for them, you've charged me the wrong amount
and I in fact qualify for that better rate.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Don't you have that
right independently, though, every year to look at a
copy of your credit report?
MR. SHORR: Well, what's significant here,
that has been added to the statute in the last two
years. But since 1970, Congress's concern is giving
notice at a critical time, when the insurance company
tells you we are relying on it and we may have taken an
adverse action.
I wanted to also mention, here it's not just
an increase. There's also been a denial, and that
Mr. Edo applied for insurance from GEICO, and was denied
insurance with the stand-alone company GEICO General, so
that is also an adverse action under the act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When you say you
look at the increase with respect to the best credit
rate, why is that? Why wouldn't you look at it relative
to say the average insured who walks in the door?
MR. SHORR: Because that -- GEICO's
argument, and I think that's what they want, presumes
they're looking at accurate credit information. And the
problem is, Congress has always told that there is
significant inadequacy in the credit information. I
think it's cited in the National Consumer Law Center
brief. In 1996, Congress was told that the error rate
in consumer information was 50 percent and there was a
20 percent serious error in the rates. Under GEICO's
interpretation --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't understand
what pertinence that has to my question which is, why do
you get to pick the best credit report as the baseline
from which you would measure your hypothetical increase?
MR. SHORR: Because under GEICO's theory of
the statute you may never get notice, even though you're
being charged more for insurance based on inaccurate
information, as long as you're not charge -- your charge
doesn't move below average. So a lot of people who are
in fact intended to be protected under this act will not
be protected until their charge goes below average, even
though the insurance company is continuing to charge
them more based on inaccurate information.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why do we -- how do we know
that they were intended to be protected in this way by
getting this notice? That's the issue in the case.
MR. SHORR: Because going through the
statute and the increase based on credit, and then the
notice will give them the opportunity to check. Since
the consumer here is the -- it's a system of checks and
balances, and unless you give this consumer the
opportunity to check that they are in fact using the
correct information, it wasn't mistaken, it wasn't
driven down by identity theft, you can continue to
charge people more --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. So that's --
MR. SHORR: -- based on inaccurate
information.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Your basic argument is the
statute, the definitions of adverse action have got to
be read in a way that maximizes the occasion upon which
a consumer will get a notice that may lead that consumer
to ask to see his credit report. That's your basic
premise?
MR. SHORR: Both based on the premise and
purpose of statute, yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right.
MR. SHORR: Briefly addressing the
application of the standard to the facts in this case,
we do think it's appropriate to remand for further
consideration in light of some new developments. GEICO
has just recently produced documents to us that
addressly -- directly address the question of scienter
here, so if there's -- if you go past a minimum
threshold --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I've read your reference
to those documents. Explain why you think that's so
important.
MR. SHORR: Because those documents directly
address the subject of standard here, that GEICO was
reckless or understood their --
JUSTICE STEVENS: How do those documents
shed any light on recklessness? I didn't see that.
MR. SHORR: I'm sorry, Your Honor?
JUSTICE STEVENS: How do the documents that
you describe shed any light on the extent of their
recklessness, if any?
MR. SHORR: I want to be careful, because I
had presented -- I asked to lodge them with the Court
and I can quote them if necessary, but within those
documents there is direct evidence that GEICO
interpreted the statute exactly how we do, that not
putting someone in the best tier based on credit --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Who's GEICO? I
mean, you're talking about particular lawyers at a
particular level, an ongoing debate about what this law
means. If you get one lawyer who says, you know, I
think you could read it this way, does that mean that
GEICO reads it that way?
MR. SHORR: No, Your Honor. In this
instance, this document involves top level GEICO
executives. And with respect to the advice of counsel
issue, frankly it's a red herring. We have never asked
to compel the Defendants in either of these cases or any
of the cases we're involved in, to waive their
privilege. They've got the right, of course, to offer
advice of counsel as an affirmative -- as a defense in
this case, but we don't believe it's necessary to prove
our case to even reach what the counsel said. We
believe we can prove our case based on the documents and
subjective intent alone.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I still don't really
understand this part of the case very much. Assume that
a lawyer writes a letter saying you read it two or three
different ways, read the statute, it's very ambiguous,
and we think the government's reading is the better
reading. And the executives think about it and they say
no, we don't think that's right. Has that proved
reckless disregard?
MR. SHORR: If the statute was clear and the
guidance --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If the statute's clear.
And of course, Miss Mahoney said the district judge
thought it was clear, but the other way.
MR. SHORR: And with respect to the district
court, we believe the district court here clearly erred,
as the Ninth Circuit found. And the guidance -- that
opinion certainly didn't precede the conduct that's at
issue here. The only guidance, again, available at the
time supported our reading of the statute. There was no
guidance from and court or from the FTC, or from
anywhere that would have supported Defendants'
interpretation at that time. So that's another aspect
of inquiry, the subjective intent of the Defendants.
If there are no other questions?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Mahoney, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN E. MAHONEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MS. MAHONEY: If I could start by just
responding to the issue of the new document, I just want
to emphasize that this document was created by people
who weren't lawyers. It was done before GEICO even
started using credit to price insurance. They were --
said they were brainstorming about what the statute
might mean. And I would point the Court to the
supplemental excerpt of records at 504 where when GEICO
implemented the policy that we're talking about here,
the -- they said that the intent was that we would send
to the people who were supposed to get the adverse
action notice. With the early systems development we
didn't have the ability to identify whether they were
supposed to receive the notice or not; that was because
they had not yet developed the way to do with what they
call the neutral, where they compare how the applicant
would have done if they hadn't taken credit, hadn't
taken credit into account at all. And this is a
procedure that's required actually in most States in
order to ensure that those who don't want to allow
access to credit reports or who don't have a sufficient
credit history are not treated adversely in the meaning
of those State laws, and that means worse than the
average loss ratio. So there's nothing in this record,
even if you take into account the documents they're
talking about, to suggest that there was somehow a
knowing or deliberate intent to try to violate the law.
With respect to a few of the factual or --
issues that came up, Safeco estimates that approximately
80 percent of all consumers that they are selling new
insurance to now have to get notice under the standards
established by the Ninth Circuit.
With respect to who can qualify for the top
tier of credit, it's only, at least at GEICO,
approximately 10 percent. So 90 percent of the
consumers would not qualify for that.
And the statute very plainly does not
prohibit differential treatment based on persons with
better credit, nor do State laws. And so the analogy as
to race discrimination simply don't hold water, because
there Congress has told you what the baseline is, you
can't treat any person of a different race in a
different way, and that's not true under this statute.
And instead, it's quite reasonable, as GEICO has
concluded, to simply say look, if we wouldn't -- if
we're treating you worse than we would have treated you
if we ever looked at your credit report, worse than if
you had an average loss ratio for this criteria, we'll
send you the notice.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why did they use credit
reports? Is it just a hedge against late premiums and
the cost of late premiums, or does it bear on risk
factors generally?
MS. MAHONEY: Well, generally there are
about 15 factors that they look at to try to come up
with a prediction of loss ratio, and someone who has a
good credit history is generally regarded as
responsible, and responsible people tend to make less
claims. And so, again, it's just one factor of 15
though.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yeah. May I ask this
question? The reading of the statute in subsection i
about, in the charges for insurance advice, seems to
favor your view. But subsection ii about denial of
employment really seems to read in favor of the
government's reading.
MS. MAHONEY: Well actually, I think that
when you factor in employment, it has -- it has the
opposite effect. Because what happens here is if you're
using employment verification reports, consumer reports
about employment, there are all kinds of consumer
reports. How do you tell who had the optimal employment
history? How could the baseline be the best employment
history possible?
JUSTICE STEVENS: No. But my point is, it
seems to me that getting a lesser salary, it just seems
like the first applicant would be an adverse employment
action under subparagraph ii, just -- do you see what
I'm trying to say?
MS. MAHONEY: That if you -- that in other
words, if you gave someone a lower salary --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It adversely affects any
current or prospective employee. Now the language in i
isn't, it doesn't read that way. But the thing that's
troubling me is whether you should interpret i in the
light of what ii seems to say.
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, I think that if
GEICO in this example, if you actually pay them less
because you looked at their credit report, then GEICO
would concede that that is in fact an adverse action.
So I don't think it's inconsistent at all.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Miss Mahoney. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 10:59 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matters was submitted.)
52:5 addressing allow 14:23 4:8 18:16 based 10:4
45:13 49:4 29:7,11 30:13 24:3 33:14
49:2 17:13,14 47:10 aside 26:6 38:8 40:10
administrative AMERICA 1:4 asked 38:10 42:18 44:7,13
adoption 5:3 42:21 40:10 48:3 baseline 38:1,3
31:5 adverse 18:8 amounts 42:9 assert 38:3 40:3 44:3
43:11 21:15,18,23 analogy 49:23 assertion 32:9 49:25 51:7
22:6 23:6,16 announced assessment bases 14:17
15:14,20 25:22 26:18 answer 15:11 Assistant 2:1 45:8
21:16,18 27:20 33:15 18:9 22:3 Assume 47:8 basically 9:23
22:6 34:3,24 35:2 27:18 assumed 39:19 25:15
36:24 37:23 answers 12:12 assumes 22:3 basis 17:18 40:8
25:23 38:2 39:15 17:11 attorneys 15:12 bear 50:11
31:22 40:16,17 43:6 antidiscrimin... attorney-client began 16:3
34:3,25 43:11 45:5 36:22 4:18 behalf 1:23 2:3
48:20 51:11,24 Appeals 18:20 authoritative 2:5 3:3,6,10,13
37:23 adversely 49:6 APPEARAN... 33:3 4:9 18:17 28:8
39:15 51:16 1:22 authority 16:5 48:9
43:6,11 advice 35:6 appears 6:1 8:16 38:18 believe 11:21
48:21 46:22 47:2 appendix 22:9 authorized 14:9,21 32:1
50:22 28:3 35:16 15:22 35:16 38:20
15:11 AEDPA 16:9 51:11 33:14 47:24 believing 11:17
affirmative 47:2 application 19:5 average 26:10 11:20
14:6 28:25 ago 39:4 applied 16:19 50:7 18:6,9
30:1,18 agree 21:15,17 43:9 aware 13:11 best 7:23 25:9
32:3,6 33:17 applies 24:18 a.m 1:21 4:2 26:10 33:14
36:12 alert 39:7 approximately bad 12:18,19 44:3 46:13
22:24,24 C 47:23 19:4 26:24 common 34:20
23:13,17 C 4:1 35:16 certification 35:10 47:22 commonly
calculation 14:15 49:16 20:23
38:7 20:13 certified 14:8,10 Circuit's 4:13 communicatio...
40:12 call 48:25 14:12,18 15:17 circular 41:2 4:16,22 5:8
47:11 calls 10:17 41:23 CFR 35:16 circumstance companies 26:3
canceling 22:15 chance 11:11 30:3 42:15 27:17 31:23
car 25:3,4 25:1 26:18 cite 38:18 39:2 20:16 33:9,22
27:14 31:13,23 37:20 38:21,23 17:8 11:16
47:3,4,5,8 52:3 44:12,25 15:19,20 complying 7:14
11:4 cases 5:13 6:11 42:21 44:7 clear 9:14,15 18:22,23 19:16
7:17 14:11,15 charges 50:22 16:13 18:2 19:18 32:12
16:19 18:11,24 charging 22:15 29:25 31:22 concede 5:23
19:22 30:5 33:13 37:11,20 32:1,10 33:17 51:24
34:6 31:14,15 39:17 38:6,8 33:18 35:6 conceivable
36:15 41:18,21 46:24 CHARLES 1:8 47:15,17,19 25:9 40:15,18
46:25 check 40:24 clearly 16:9,24 41:19
40:19 category 26:7 44:19,22 17:22 47:21 concern 43:3
33:23 34:1 checks 44:20 close 13:2,4,21 concluded 18:20
Center 43:21 Chief 4:3,10 7:9 code 9:22 10:4 conclusion 5:7
certainly 7:20 43:12 44:1 comment 35:18 11:13 12:19
41:7 11:18 17:9 33:2 49:25
28:13,16 copy 42:25 34:3,17 36:15 defendant 5:23 38:24 39:2
11:7 10:1 21:4,19 38:8 39:8,19 defendants 21:2 10:10
correctly 8:5 42:6,13,16,25 46:24 48:2,4 34:22 39:19
11:4 cost 50:11 44:3,18 45:8 deference 33:6 50:1,2
counsel 4:16,21 49:1,2,5,6,18 defined 8:6 49:22
36:1,4 28:5 31:16 50:16 51:23 defines 23:19 16:13
31:19,19 course 17:14 criteria 50:7 24:8 27:22 disagree 30:7
18:3 30:4 31:1 critical 43:4 37:20 38:21 disagreement
24:4 39:7 35:10 37:5 22:12 defy 12:19 discover 33:24
40:13 42:11 culpability degree 17:21 discriminates
40:4 47:1,18 29:14 20:8 36:23
43:21 court 1:1,20 culpable 7:7 delay 20:10 discrimination
44:20,21 4:11,17,24 curiae 2:3 3:7 deliberate 49:11 37:10,14,18
51:4,5 5:13,15 6:9 7:1 current 35:11 denial 26:16 40:2,4,6 49:24
49:14,20 12:15,18 16:25 customer 24:17 50:23 19:2
27:23 32:2,16,16 D 4:1 depends 32:9 18:22 30:7
18:21 48:1,16 damages 15:23 described 10:7 district 4:24,25
20:15 courts 35:7 16:20 20:20 34:3 40:20 8:11 16:3 17:5
30:10,12 court's 4:25 28:19,25 29:14 despite 33:24 17:9 32:16
36:8 10:5 17:5 30:1 31:6,7 determination 35:10 47:18,20
covers 27:9 debatable 11:11 determined 8:5 Dixon 6:12
creative 17:11 27:16 46:16 development 48:11,12
credit 7:12 9:5,6 decision 7:13 developments 45:17,22,24
39:9 erroneous 23:8 factor 50:18 formulation 6:6 38:12 42:1
20:3,11 errors 5:10 factors 50:12,14 found 8:11 13:6 goes 17:13 36:16
20:15 essence 15:4 6:23 31:1 four 48:7 going 21:22 34:7
17:10 39:19 45:14 frankly 46:23 34:11 39:20
everybody fair 7:11 11:11 further 4:15 gotten 15:1
48:8 example 24:5 Farmer 10:7,17 45:16,25 46:11 19:25 28:17
23:20 32:18 Federal 7:10 GEICO's 42:7 ground 11:17,20
47:12 figure 37:25 gender 23:15 13:7,7
existence 21:12 find 4:17,22 General 1:10 guess 35:13
22:11,15 24:19 finding 28:25 43:10 32:18,19,20,21
46:24 37:2,3 45:22 first 4:4,12,24 50:12,13,16 36:8,13 47:16
explore 4:15 13:25 16:2,11 44:16 51:10 guide 33:12
30:19 40:25 19:15 26:14 14:7,13,19
51:2,4,5 five 42:10 34:1 37:7 happens 51:3
F flip 23:11 38:12 39:16 happy 35:3
33:5 31:12 32:1,20 form 10:14 giving 43:3 15:24
10:20 11:13 37:24 38:2,13 49:15 50:22 17:11 27:13,16
immunity 17:1 40:3,5,9,11,25 43:15 iv 22:7,9
19:1 implemented independently intent 9:11,16 January 1:17
48:18 42:24 9:20 12:24 judge 16:3 21:11
11:8 45:23 industry 14:5 9:17 judicial 31:18
12:22 importantly 9:7 infer 8:16 21:12 interested 20:17 jury 21:11
17:21 impose 14:3 29:24 41:10 Justice 2:2 4:3
20:14 impression 4:24 inference 30:15 interference 4:10 5:25 6:6
33:9 12:10 13:25 informal 35:6 12:16 6:17,19 7:9,21
31:8,8 inaccurate 44:7 22:23 23:7 interpret 15:2 10:2,9,24 11:4
33:13 44:13 45:2 24:3 25:17,19 51:19 11:19 12:1,5
inaction 19:19 25:22 27:23 interpretation 12:23 13:1,12
50:16 43:20 42:21 43:18,20 32:2 34:10 14:13,19 15:7
inappropriate 43:23 44:8,13 43:25 48:3 15:16,25 16:8
11:25 include 22:14 37:25 42:5 16:13 30:5 23:4,18,21,25
13:9,23 29:2 injure 9:11,16 31:11 32:15 24:11,14,20
15:19 includes 18:22 injury 20:5,7,10 46:12 25:6,16,24
17:24 24:9,9 31:2 20:11 25:21 interpreting 26:12 27:4
36:5 35:19 inquiry 4:18 31:14 28:1,4,5,9,21
39:2,10 including 6:12 48:4 intuitive 41:25 29:12,17,23
51:21 32:21 instance 9:4 involved 46:25 30:8,17,21
inconsistent 28:14 33:21 involves 46:21 31:16,25 32:3
22:20 23:12,13 22:6 26:3,16 12:10 13:25 36:21 37:3,7
24:1 26:17,20 27:2 16:2 17:15,20 37:13,17,22
47:7 language 18:2 45:16 46:3,6 Mahoney 1:23 meanings 30:12
48:6 26:13,21,25 51:20 3:2,12 4:7,8,10 means 5:18 6:12
51:9 31:20 33:19 likelihood 40:6 6:4,9,18,24 6:13,14,20,20
52:2 34:20 35:23 line 15:12 7:17,23 8:3,19 8:17 10:19
41:10 11:3,7,24 12:2 34:2 38:16
16:8 5:22 6:13,23 15:8 15:10,18 16:7 29:8 30:4
7:2 8:22 9:17 little 22:18 16:15 17:24 measure 44:4
17:8 18:25 lodge 46:9 51:21 52:3 mentioned 31:5
12:3 38:15 43:21 long 44:8 matter 1:19 18:15,16,18
46:16 49:11 longer 25:3 29:16 42:6 19:14 20:2
17:3,8 lawful 11:17,20 look 5:8,16 7:3 matters 52:5 21:17 22:2
21:22 laws 49:7,23 9:9 10:6 12:23 MAUREEN 23:2,9,20,24
26:9,10 lawyer 7:10 12:5 13:1,5 15:20 1:23 3:2,12 4:8 24:8,13,17
27:9 17:14 46:17 17:7 21:21 48:8 25:1,16 26:1
35:7 47:9 27:2,3 30:12 maximize 40:6 26:22 27:11
42:9 lawyering 35:25 30:13 33:18,19 maximizes 28:2
46:17 lawyers 11:1,20 34:17 38:11,25 39:25 45:6 million 26:3,4
7:4,20 46:15 48:13 41:17 42:9,24 McLaughlin mind 12:19
9:17 lawyer's 12:10 43:13,14 50:4 31:14 15:21 29:20,21
28:11,17 lead 45:7 50:14 mean 5:12,14,22 29:21
29:8,9 lesser 20:8 23:14 looked 41:11 6:17,21 7:6 8:7 minimal 33:6
51:10 50:6 51:23 9:3 10:3 11:1,4 minimum 45:19
31:1,1,6 letter 32:23,25 looking 21:7 13:16,19 17:2 minute 39:4
49:11 33:10 36:13 43:18 17:20 23:17 minutes 48:7
letters 36:24 42:17 27:8,12 30:6,8 6:22
8:15,20 let's 36:15 lose 12:11 32:4 33:17 34:9,10 misstepped 19:4
level 31:8 32:11 losing 17:1 34:16,17 35:12 mistake 6:21
7:22 46:16,21 lot 22:10 44:9 46:15,18 48:16 model 9:22 10:4
8:8,22,22 liability 15:6 lower 21:22 23:4 meaning 5:10 morning 4:4
19:22,23,24 23:5 37:8 6:3 13:13 31:21
28:17 lowered 21:24 49:6 multiply 15:4
42:1 ordinary 19:9 43:23,24 49:14 19:7 21:4
notified 21:24 38:12 49:19,19 26:23 32:19,20
originally 28:24 32:10 41:14,19 51:8
o 4:1 28:23,24 outcome 13:2 8:21,23 9:1,5 14:4,24 15:6
18:9 object 39:23 overturned permitted 11:16 precede 47:23
41:3 40:1 35:10 person 10:12 precisely 9:3
19:15,17 20:14 P 4:1 50:1 premise 45:9,10
33:7 28:2 pertinence 44:2 50:11
objectively paper 19:1 Petitioner 21:15 presented 27:14
31:5 10:20 13:9 20:10 31:13 Petitioners 1:6 46:9
46:23 21:9 34:21 particular 5:20 32:19 48:9 previously 40:4
48:11 offer 47:1 parts 6:2 picking 17:1 primarily 10:5
office 23:11 passed 31:12 place 24:22,23 prior 41:3
11:18 17:9 34:6 45:1 pay 20:16 22:16 plainly 49:21 47:1
26:24 once 21:6,9 51:22 plaintiff 21:8 privileged 5:8
47:22 ongoing 46:16 paying 21:21 plaintiffs 5:23 probably 17:16
operation 22:21 pays 33:25 15:12 29:8,21 34:9
33:13 opinions 10:5 penalty 14:23,24 18:19 28:10 40:23
35:17 opportunity 15:4 31:9 plenty 15:12 procedure 49:3
42:11,15 4:15 42:19 pending 14:11 pocketbook proceed 9:10
43:4 44:19,22 people 25:8 26:9 23:3 25:20 17:17
opposite 34:21 41:12,20,24 point 13:8 14:23 proceeding
48:21,23 51:3 44:9,25 48:12 48:16 51:9 15:11
50:8 optimal 51:6 48:20 50:17 points 28:23 proceedings
40:20 order 37:22 38:1 41:11,13,13,16 Portland 2:5 product 36:17
41:22,25 40:6 49:4 41:18,21,23 position 11:14 program 11:16
15:7 16:11 47:9,10 50:24 27:11 require 7:5
30:9,21 33:7 reading 5:2 7:3 24:22,23,24 required 27:22
41:22 44:2 47:25 50:21,25 referred 10:16 21:1 36:24,24
36:13 questions 4:25 real 7:11 refers 27:6 resist 14:17
28:18 quite 41:18 50:3 50:24 50:16 respectfully
quote 46:10 reason 9:18 regulations 30:7
31:9 R reasonable 7:3 reiterate 24:18 2:6 3:10 18:17
race 36:16,18,23 32:13 50:3 relevant 6:14 32:18
16:20 49:24 50:1 rebuttal 3:11 40:25 48:11
12:18,19 22:24 25:9,11 8:1 9:23 10:3 remand 45:15 50:17,17
30:22 25:19 26:10,11 16:5,18 17:17 remanded 4:14 result 20:6
33:20,20 26:11 27:5,6,7 18:22 19:19 rental 25:3 25:20
38:9 33:14 36:17,18 26:24 29:9 repair 25:4 reviewing 22:11
40:11 36:20 37:8,8,9 30:2,6 31:6,7 repeat 25:25 22:13
41:10 37:14 38:4,7 31:10 33:22 repeatedly 5:15 Richland 19:1
40:3 41:19 46:1 47:14 repeating 30:11 right 9:22 16:9
43:14,22 5:14 21:21,25 22:23 25:25 30:14
50:15 19:25 20:4 39:12,19,21 47:1,13
42:7,14 25:13 26:25 red 46:23 reports 49:5 20:7,9,14 21:6
33:9 35:24 36:3,6 Shorr 2:5 3:9 45:1,4,12 47:10,15,25
36:10 28:6,7,9 29:12 Souther 29:12 48:15 49:21
17:19 score 33:14 31:25 32:6,11 speaks 19:8 27:7 statutes 5:14
18:14 41:12,14 32:24 33:4 specialized 26:6 20:23 30:6
23:1,4 SCOTT 2:5 3:9 34:5,24 35:3,9 26:7 31:12
31:16 28:7 36:2,5,7,12 specifically statute's 47:17
33:1 Screws 12:15 37:1,6,11,16 33:11 statutory 4:23
42:23 13:15,23 16:12 37:19 38:6,20 staff 33:11 26:25 27:12
44:1 16:15,22 39:1,10,14 standard 8:4,6 28:19 30:14,18
48:6 second 16:12 40:9,22 41:3 10:18 11:5 31:7,9,20
section 7:4,6 9:9 42:5 43:1,16 16:17,17,18,18 32:14 35:22
sections 5:17,22 46:4,8,20 21:4 26:11 stayed 29:6,9
secured 12:17 show 20:25 30:20 31:6,7 19:12,21 21:14
45:8 46:3 significance 32:5,14 33:7 47:7,17 50:20
17:5 36:1 38:20 51:9,16
send 24:4 25:12 30:5,6 31:12 stand-alone 45:25
51:10 41:21 48:19 simply 14:25 start 48:10 19:12,17 21:8
50:8 20:9 49:24 started 31:9 35:21 47:6
31:2 34:21 40:19 States 1:1,20 2:3 52:5
17:6 34:2 separate 22:7 Solicitor 2:1 8:25 9:4 11:9 50:21,23
47:9 29:16 38:3 11:10 15:2 substantial 9:24
10:11 serious 20:5,7 somewhat 23:16 20:19 22:22 substantive
13:23 38:17 43:24 sorry 21:13 22:8 23:18,21 24:25 27:19
23:21,25 set 20:12 41:1,2 22:10 46:4 25:11 26:13 success 11:12
34:8 40:3 setting 5:12 6:15 sort 20:10 23:10 27:18 30:23 17:17
10:15 14:2 24:24 30:9 32:1,9,12,15 sue 15:8
8:1 settled 24:10 Souter 28:21 35:5,18 36:9 suffered 41:7
12:1,5 shed 42:3 46:3,6 29:17,23 30:8 39:7,24,24 sufficient 5:20
13:1,12 shift 21:7 30:18 39:3,11 40:16 43:2 12:21 49:5
26:12 Shoe 19:1 39:15 40:14 44:6,18 45:5 sufficiently
28:1,4 shoehorn 26:20 41:1 44:14 45:11 46:12 10:12
32:15 tens 34:11 51:1,21,25 10:11 14:9 violate 9:20
term 4:13 5:13 thought 8:25 15:14,25,25 16:24 49:11
38:19 9:8 27:1,4 thousand 14:23 47:9 21:2
39:24 three 5:21 19:2 U 6:13
22:13 Thurston 19:1 understand 25:6 27:17 33:10
48:2 24:12,15,16,21 tier 26:5 46:13 47:8 9:17 11:23
32:18,19 26:19 27:8,12 tiers 42:10 22:20 15:23 20:24,25
27:25 28:4,5 31:13 33:25 underwriting violations 5:19
theft 44:24 48:3 unfavorable
theory 44:5 told 9:4 17:15 United 1:1,20 waivers 4:18
tort 9:10 20:5 13:24 14:2 34:7 38:17,18
9:14,14,18 treated 49:6 unsettled 12:9 48:11 49:4
12:1,8 13:5,15 treating 50:5 use 9:7,22 10:3 11:14 28:15
17:4,7 19:15 trouble 40:1 users 9:4 Washington
34:23 20:3,4,13 21:8 troubling 51:19 uses 18:24 38:18 1:16,23 2:2
46:15 21:20 22:20 true 12:12 20:4 usual 30:9 wasn't 8:23 9:18
49:10 25:14 26:24 37:13 50:2 33:1 44:23,23
33:17 34:20 50:14 variable 20:12 water 49:24
36:10 38:10 39:1,4,5 Tuesday 1:17 verification 51:4 10:25 15:3
42:19 40:9,22 41:3 turn 4:12 versus 4:5,6 20:19 23:10
43:17,21 45:15 turns 20:21 10:17 24:22,25 26:2
40:10 25:20 42:15 3A 22:9 24:8
44:15 43:14 50:4
46:18,19 wow 36:1 4
48:24 write 24:25 4 3:3
51:18 writes 47:9 40 17:16
50:7 wrongful 17:3 50 43:23
40:1 41:6 X
48:18
28:2
9:11,16 year 42:24
11:23 80 49:14
13:13 0
16:1 9
1:13 4:5
29:1,2 90 49:19
1:7 4:4
30:1 99 41:13,16,18
1 41:21,23
1 23:13 41:13
34:23 10 26:8 41:7
49:19
10:59 52:4
6:1,5,10 15 26:8 50:14,18
16 1:17 35:16
7:6,16 1681h 9:9
13:13,17 1681n 7:4 8:16
16:12 9:12,13
27:17 1681n(a)(1)(A)
21:12 1681n(b) 30:19
18 3:7
38:15,19
32:7 20 43:24
2007 1:17
3
