IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
METROPOLITAN LIFE, :
INSURANCE COMPANY, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 06-923
WANDA GLENN. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, April 23, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:10 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
AMY K. POSNER, ESQ., Long Island City, N.Y.; on behalf
of the Petitioners.
E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
AMY K. POSNER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondent 43
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
AMY K. POSNER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:10 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in Case 06-923, Metropolitan Life Insurance
versus Glenn.
Miss Posner.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF AMY K. POSNER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MS. POSNER: Thank you. Mr. Chief Justice
and may it please the Court:
For two reasons, the Sixth Circuit was wrong
to hold that a company that is an ERISA claim fiduciary
and that separately funds the plan's liabilities must
always be deemed to be operating under a conflict of
interest that changes the employer's designated
arbitrary and capricious standard of review under its
plan document. And the first reason is one that we're
on common ground with and that is, as this Court
recognized in Pegram v. Herdrich, ERISA explicitly
authorizes companies like MetLife to fulfill both
fiduciary and nonfiduciary functions as long as it does
not in actuality commingle those functions. The mere
fact that the potentiality of conflict is inherent in
all of these commonplace dual arrangements in ERISA
welfare benefit plans is not enough on its own to
displace the employer's designated abuse of discretion
standard of review.
And secondly --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but neither, neither
does the fact that there may be dual capacities
eliminate the fact that there are contrary tugs on the,
the individual or the, or the organization that has the
dual responsibilities, and there's no reason that the
law should be blind to that.
MS. POSNER: No, Your Honor, it should not
be blind. And as Firestone recognized, though, if in
fact there is a, an entity that is in actuality
conflicted, a claim administrator, then that conflict
doesn't change the standard of review.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you mean by --
let's get straight by what we mean by "in actuality
conflicted." Isn't the fiduciary who has a financial
interest in actuality conflicted?
MS. POSNER: We're using the words --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And aren't we talking in
this case always about fiduciaries who are in actuality
conflicted.
MS. POSNER: No, Your Honor. We are using
these terms to designate in actuality a conflicted
fiduciary is one that has been infected or the decision
was infected by the conflict.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. That's, that's a
conflicted fiduciary who allows the conflict to warp its
judgment. But the conflict exists whether you, whether
you give it effect or not.
MS. POSNER: Yes, that's right, Your Honor.
There is a conflict that we're saying is a potential
conflict.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So let's call that a
conflicted fiduciary, somebody who has two loyalties,
whether or not he allows the one loyalty to distort his
judgment.
MS. POSNER: Yes. And as this Court
recognized in Firestone, Your Honor, when there is an
actual conflict, that's --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let me follow up on
Justice Scalia's question because I think your brief
really goes astray on that. Think of the many
situations like the remainderman who is the trustee. He
has to look out for the interests of the live tenant,
but he's going to keep all the rest, so maybe he wants
to be economical. That's not saying that he is. So
I've always understood that the term "conflicting
interests" means just that; you have conflicting
interests. It doesn't mean that you necessarily slide
over into misconduct. And I think that if you would
keep that separation in mind, is there a conflicting
interest? Yes, there is. Has the trustee in fact
slipped and taken unfair advantage because of the
conflicting interests?
MS. POSNER: That's exactly the distinction
that we are making by using actual and potential or, as
this Court said, possible and actual in Firestone. And
where that slip occurs in trust law or in ERISA and it
infects the decision, the Firestone court --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does it have to be just
the specific decisions? Suppose that the company does
not have clear rules of, what do you call them,
firewalls between the profit side and the claims
processing side. Would that be enough to cause a
greater, more searching standard of review, say de novo?
MS. POSNER: I don't think it would ever
result in a de novo review. I think what it is is a
factor that should be weighed with all the other factors
that go to the actual benefits decision.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So then you're saying, A,
the fact that there is a potential conflict is not
enough; B, the fact that there are no procedures in the
company to ensure that the conflict doesn't affect the
judgment, that is not enough either.
MS. POSNER: No. I'm not saying that. I'm
saying that if --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm positing. Does the
fiduciary at least have the, the burden of production to
show that it has established clear lines of demarcation,
firewalls, whatever you call them, within the company?
Does it have at least that obligation going forward?
MS. POSNER: No, Your Honor, it does not,
and as the United States --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well then, I don't know
what effect you're giving to the fact, as the earlier
questions have indicated, that there is a structural
conflict.
MS. POSNER: That's a structural conflict
that ERISA anticipates and, as the United States said in
its brief to this court in Pegram v. Herdrich, that
ERISA tolerates this dual role and this level of
conflict in order to keep these plans that are so vital
in our country's economic interests in underlying the
employee's well-being --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You want us to write an
opinion to say that it's irrelevant that a company does
not have procedures to insulate the profit section from
the claims processing section? I'll use those terms.
MS. POSNER: No, Justice Kennedy, absolutely
not. But what we are saying is that if there were such
a fiduciary that factor must be weighed, but it doesn't
change the abuse of discretion standard.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How does that work?
I don't understand. You go through, you've got a
decision, whatever, it's a health insurance decision
that this procedure -- to determine that this procedure
is not covered under the, the plan, that the fiduciary
has the discretion to make that determination. But you
say, aha, he's got a conflict of interest, so that's a
factor we take into account. Well, how does -- what
does that mean?
MS. POSNER: It means again, remembering
that these are claims under 29 U.S.C. 1132(a)(1)(B) for
benefits due under the terms of the plan, it's very
important that the courts remember to look at the terms
of those plans --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right, you've
got two cases, one where the person does not have a
conflict of interest under a particular plan, the other
where he does. It's the same decision: We're not going
to cover this procedure. How is the review different in
each of those cases as a practical matter?
MS. POSNER: As, as in trust law -- and if
you look at the cases in trust law, what the court needs
to look at when the settlor, here the employer,
designates the discretionary authority under the terms
of the trust or the plan is that that conflict comes
into play if it seems that it's been breached. But you
also have to remember exactly what the purpose of the
trust is, and so you need to protect the employer's
interest in having benefits paid in meritorious cases
and not paid in nonmeritorious cases.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess I don't see
an answer to my question yet. How does the review
differ as a functional matter? He says he looks at it
and says, well, normally that would be within the
discretion, but I've got to remember he's got a
conflict, so I'm going to determine that this particular
procedure should be covered because of the conflict.
MS. POSNER: It remains in the discretion
because this Court said that that freedom of contract
that's so important to ERISA, to keep the benefits, the
employers interested in offering benefits --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you're saying it
doesn't make any difference. You say you should take it
into account, but if it was a reasoned decision, which
is the test whether or not he's a fiduciary, if it's a
reasoned decision the fact that he's a fiduciary makes
no difference, right? Isn't that what you're saying?
MS. POSNER: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It does make a decision
then. What was a reasoned decision for someone who
doesn't have a conflict becomes an unreasoned decision
simply by reason of the fact that he has a conflict?
MS. POSNER: Certainly not. Again, it must
be a factor that's weighed with the other factors.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's exactly my question.
MS. POSNER: Yes --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm going to let you answer
this question --
MS. POSNER: And I --
JUSTICE BREYER: But I want you to work mine
in if you can. The problem that I'm having is what to
say in the opinion. Now, could I say this? Firestone,
yes, that's the way to put it as a standard. You can
also teach through example. So I look at this case, I
say: You want to know what that means, read the court
of appeals opinion; it's perfect. Okay? So I've got
Firestone -- my opinion so far is two words:
"Firestone, perfect." Okay? Now, what do you want me
to say other than that?
MS. POSNER: In this case -- and this case I
think presents a very narrow question for the Court, and
that is where there is the dual role inherent in the
plan but no evidence whatsoever that it infected the
decision, if it must be given weight in answer to the
Court's second question, then --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then you come to the
end of the line. You have to prove that the authority
was misused. And as I understand the Sixth Circuit's
decision, what those judges were doing, they say we're
going to look at this with some skepticism because of
the conflict. And let me give you a concrete example.
This woman got Social Security disability benefits and
she did it at the suggestion of MetLife is; that so?
MS. POSNER: She actually applied herself.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But she got a lawyer that
they recommended that she have.
MS. POSNER: MetLife recommended a lawyer to
her and also said she could use her own lawyer, which
was consistent with the plan design.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the point is they
came to her and said: Get Social Security disability
benefits. Now, to get those she would have to show that
she is totally and permanently disabled.
MS. POSNER: Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So here is a company that
says: Tell the U.S. government that you are totally and
permanently disabled, but -- and then we'll recoup all
that money that we paid out to you; but then when we get
a chance to look, look it over, we'll say you're not
disabled. Why isn't it appropriate to regard just that
set of circumstances with suspicion?
MS. POSNER: Because, Your Honor, at the
time that that letter was written to the Respondent here
in October of 2000, in fact MetLife had granted her
benefits. And the action of helping an employee perfect
their entitlement to Social Security is in fact not a
conflict at all. It's a fiduciary obligation under the
terms of a plan and it helps the employee as well.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, I'm not questioning
that at all.
MS. POSNER: When --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That sounds fine. It's a
question of why, after helping her tell the government
that she was totally disabled, they, after the initial
two-year period, turned around and said she's not.
MS. POSNER: The -- the reason is -- and
it's unfortunate that often Social Security makes the
same decision that the plan fiduciary has made two years
earlier, and the government is looking backwards at
certain evidence that may not be before the ERISA plan
fiduciary. The ERISA plan fiduciary at that two-year
point is looking at that evidence at that time and at a
change in the terms of the plan.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Posner, it seems to me
that that ought to be looked at with suspicion, whether
or not the person making the decision has a conflict. I
mean that smells bad or doesn't smell bad, as you say,
either way.
MS. POSNER: Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I am still -- listen, I
know that we're responsible for this because we said it
in Firestone. We said that a conflict of interest
should be weighed as a factor. If that means anything,
it seems to me it means that sometimes that weight will
make the difference. So at least sometimes -- but
you're not willing to admit that -- at least sometimes
you would say, oh, yes, this is a reasonable decision
and had this decision been made by a fiduciary without a
conflict, it would be perfectly okay because it's
reasonable. That's the test. However, since this
fiduciary has a conflict, what was a reasonable
decision, whoof, the added weight, it becomes an
unreasonable decision.
MS. POSNER: I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that what you mean by
giving it some weight?
MS. POSNER: Yes, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You do.
MS. POSNER: But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So a perfectly reasonable
decision becomes unreasonable simply because you have a
conflict?
MS. POSNER: It depends on how close that
reasonable decision is to the line, and in this case the
decision was not one that this mere dual-role conflict,
the lowest level of conflict that can exist, can push
that reasonable decision over. And I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, let's assume -- let's
assume that I'm reviewing it, and I -- I don't find it
as clear as you do, and I'm on the fence. Being on the
fence, may I take into consideration the fact that there
was a conflict of interest?
MS. POSNER: You -- I think under Firestone
you have to take that into account.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And therefore I will say,
okay, I wouldn't know for sure how to go in this case,
but I see the conflict of interest and that's enough to
make me say more probably than not there was a
reflection of the self-interest of the provider, rather
than the interest of the -- of the insured here; and,
therefore, I'm going to find that the -- that the
conflict did disadvantage the person insured. That
would be, I take it on your view, a reasonable
application of Firestone.
MS. POSNER: Again, depending upon how these
things weigh.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I just told you.
MS. POSNER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I just told you how it
weighed. I'm sitting on the fence. I'm not sure what
to do. I take into consideration the fact that there is
conflicting interest here; and, therefore, I conclude
that the conflicting interest is the reason for the
decision and I hold against the company. Is that a
misapplication of Firestone?
MS. POSNER: No, it would not be. But --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
JUSTICE ALITO: But that's not the argument
that I understood you to make in your brief. Is that a
change from the position you took in your brief?
MS. POSNER: No, Your Honor, I don't believe
it is. The brief acknowledges that there are various
conflicts that exist here. The conflict that ERISA
tolerates and recognizes as being everyday, ordinary
practice that is absolutely necessary for the employee
benefits of this country to remain vital, and that is --
JUSTICE ALITO: Could I just get this clear?
I thought your position in your brief was that there has
to be a demonstration that the conflict had an effect on
the decision before there is any departure from the
standard abuse of discretion --
MS. POSNER: That's correct, Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- the standard of review.
MS. POSNER: And I took Justice Souter's
hypothetical to mean that there had been a conflict that
seriously weighed on his view.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No. My hypothetical is the
hypothetical of the person making the decision. I put
myself in that person's position and I'm saying I can
think of reasons that might result in concluding that
this was a reasonable decision, period. And I can think
of reasons that might result in concluding that, in
fact, this was a decision that had been made against the
interest of the insured because the person making the
decision itself had an interest in it.
I'm not sure which way to go, but I now take
into consideration the fact that there was this
conflicting interest in the person or the organization
that made the decision, and for that reason, I am going
to -- I'm going to break the tie, and I'm going to
conclude that the conflict was to the disadvantage of
the insured. I'm going to rule against the company. I
understood that you said that would be a proper
application of Firestone. Is that still your answer?
MS. POSNER: I think that that could be.
The problem with all of these cases and when you look at
them --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, why wouldn't it be?
MS. POSNER: Well, again, we're looking at
conflict as if it's the only factor here, and when we
look at these cases --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No. In my hypothetical,
I've taken into --
MS. POSNER: You're saying that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- factors that say the
company was right, factors that say the company is
wrong. I'm not sure which. They seem evenly balanced
to me, until I take into consideration the fact that
there was conflicting interest, and I say that's enough
to tip it. And it does tip it, and I rule against the
company.
MS. POSNER: I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And am I right or wrong
under Firestone?
MS. POSNER: Again, I think that it's very
important to look at the employer's plan and this
employer specifically.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That may be, but what's the
answer to my question?
MS. POSNER: The answer is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Am I right or wrong?
MS. POSNER: The answer is you could be
right or you could be wrong, but it's --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That is not going to --
MS. POSNER: -- so important --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's not going to help
the appellate court, my friends here who have to review
my decision. They want to know whether I was right or
wrong.
MS. POSNER: These matters are so
fact-specific.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, let's take these
facts.
MS. POSNER: Okay, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: As the trier -- I mean
ERISA, yes, it certainly says you can be both the plan
administrator and the payor, but all it says is that
that's permissible. But it also provides for review of
those decisions, judicial review in court. And here is,
say, a district court is looking at it and says: I
don't understand why the company didn't look at the
doctor's explanation and put such heavy weight on a
checkmark. And I also don't understand the suggestion
that she is totally disabled to the government and then
saying, well, she's really not, in this very close time
frame. So it might be okay and it might not.
I am in equipoise about this case, not the
terms of the plan but the decision that was made to deny
her benefits. So which way do I call it? That's the
question that Justice Souter posed, and you seem not to
want to face up to it and answer it.
MS. POSNER: Your Honor, the problem with
the hypothetical as you just stated is that you've taken
the employer's contract out of the calculation, and that
the employer has the right to determine its own plan and
design those plans as they see fit in order to keep
these vital economic safety nets available, affordable
and capable of providing a safety net to the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does that bear on
making a determination that the --
MS. POSNER: Because --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- employee -- that the
plan administrator has to make: Is this person disabled
and is she not?
MS. POSNER: You can't make that
determination, Justice Ginsburg, out of the context of
the plan design. This plan design says that Social
Security can be -- can be an offset, estimated or -- or
received.
It says that the plan administrator or the
fiduciary not only has discretionary authority to
determine eligibility for benefits and to construe the
terms of the plan, but that its decision may not be
overturned unless arbitrary and capricious.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, Justice
Souter's question and Justice Alito's question highlight
for me what I think is the central issue. Justice
Souter had asked you whether the conflict comes into
play, you know, when it's a tie. And you're right on
the fence, and you say, well, the conflict's a factor,
so it tips over in the employee's favor.
Justice Alito's question asked you whether
or not the conflict has to play a role in the decision.
I don't know how that would be, but let's say, for
example, the insurance company is doing well and so they
say, well, we allow coverage for this procedure. All of
a sudden, the insurance company looks like it's not
doing so well, it's not going to meet the quarterly
targets or whatever, so it says, well, we're no longer
going to allow coverage for that procedure. In other
words, it is the conflict itself that affects which way
it comes out.
Now, which is right: Justice Souter's case
in which the conflict tips the scales, no matter what
the reason is; or Justice Alito's case where the
conflict plays a role in the decision process?
MS. POSNER: We believe that it's the
Justice Alito hypothetical, where it does play a role.
Where it doesn't play a role, it should have -- our
first answer -- our answer to the first question is it
should have no weight. However, I understand that we've
moved beyond that to the second question.
JUSTICE ALITO: But the problem with that is
the Court needs to know what the standard of review is
before it gets to the merits. And how is the Court
going to know whether conflicting interests played a
role in the outcome of a particular benefits
determination without looking at the merits of the case
unless there is going to be a lot of discovery about
internal processes at MetLife and how you treat the
people who -- who gets promoted among the benefits
administrators and all of that? And that's what I don't
understand about that position.
MS. POSNER: No -- yes, Justice Alito, and I
think you hit the nail on the head there. The merits of
the case must certainly be scrutinized, and they can be
scrutinized for an abuse of discretion. And that's the
important issue. It's scrutinizing the merits of the
case, whether or not the medical and vocational
information supports the decision.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes. But as I understand
your brief, you say the conflict of interest is only
relevant if it affected the decision. But how does the
plaintiff prove that it affected? What sort of evidence
would go to that issue?
MS. POSNER: There are cases, Your Honor,
where can you see that, for instance, when you look at
the medical evidence, that the administrator shows in
its claim file, which, unlike any other area of the law,
the whole process is transparent under ERISA; and there
may really not be any evidence that's supporting it, or
so little that it's hard to understand how that
fiduciary could possibly have reached that decision.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, you're just saying
that the plaintiff has to have an overwhelming case. I
don't think you'd need the conflict-of-interest point in
that kind of case.
MS. POSNER: That's actually the standard,
though, Justice Stevens, in trust law also. Because
when you read these cases and you look at the examples
in the Restatement, when the trustee has an acknowledged
conflict and the settlor nevertheless vests in that
trustee discretionary authority, then in order for a
court to displace that trustee's judgment the court must
find that the trustee actually acted from conflict and
in controverse -- in contraverdia -- oh, my goodness --
and did not follow the terms of the plan.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, I can understand
that in normal trust situations, but it's hard for me to
understand how you're going to prove an insurance
company's particular claim adjustment was really
motivated by a conflict of interest rather than thinking
the claim wasn't valid.
MS. POSNER: That is a problem, but the fact
of the matter is that you -- you read the cases and the
files, as I'm sure you have, and it's apparent that
there are -- let me use Post v. Hartford as an example,
if I may. In Post v. Hartford there is a majority
opinion that overruled the Hartford's discretion based
merely on minor irregularities.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where, where is this
decision from that you're --
MS. POSNER: Post v. Hartford, Your Honor,
is at 501 Fed. 3d 154. It's the case that -- it's a
Third Circuit case from 2007 that the Respondent very
heavily relies upon, and it's a glaring example of
what's gone wrong in the analysis here, because in Post
v. Hartford there's a majority opinion that overruled
the Hartford's discretion based on minor irregularities,
what it called as minor irregularities, merely because
they existed.
The dissenting judge looked at the medicals
and, even under the Third Circuit's heightened scrutiny,
which automatically it applies to insurance companies
regardless of the situation, that justice said the
medical -- that judge, sorry -- said that the medical
evidence very clearly supported the Hartford's decision.
And what we are hoping will come out of
this, Your Honors, is that in fashioning what should
happen in these cases, that the fact that these are
claims for benefits under the terms of the plan must
really be important, not just minor irregularities and
whether this was done right or that was done right.
That's -- that's a cause of action under -- under
1132(a)(2), and the Respondents are relying very heavily
on the replacement of the fiduciary, of the trustee.
That's not the issue here. That's an (a)(2)
claim under 1109 where you could replace the fiduciary.
Here we are talking about were these benefits properly
denied or not?
And if there are no further questions, Your
Honor --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's one feature of
this that I don't understand. It was referred to very
swiftly in Judge Merritt's separate opinion. He said at
one point there was a proposal by MetLife that they give
this woman a trial run at a sedentary job to see if she
could do it. And he said that that made a lot of sense
to him, and it was MetLife's proposal, but then it got
withdrawn. Could you clarify what that was?
MS. POSNER: Yes. I believe, Justice
Ginsburg, that Judge Merritt was looking at a provision
of the plan that -- actually, I'll tell you where it is.
It's at 170a of the joint appendix. And that provision
allows rehabilitative employment for a disabled person.
In early 2002, MetLife did refer the file to a
vocational rehabilitation specialist to determine
whether or not the Respondent was eligible for that.
In doing that, a letter was sent to the
treating physician, Dr. Patel, asking specifically what
she could do in an eight-hour day; could she do
full-time sedentary work; and if there were any physical
barriers. And that's that March 12th, 2002, letter --
it was not a form -- which he filled out and said in an
eight-hour day she could sit for eight hours; she could
stand for four hours; and she could walk for two hours;
that she could do full-time, sedentary work, and that
there were no physical barriers otherwise blocking her
ability to do that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then why did MetLife
withdraw that proposal?
MS. POSNER: Well, there was no proposal,
Your Honor, but it was given to a rehabilitation
specialist to work that up to see if she was disabled
and eligible for rehabilitative employment, because her
treating physician responded to that inquiry by saying
she could do sedentary work, she retained that physical
capacity, which was consistent with what he said in
January of '02 and again in June of '02. That provision
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: My question was not what
Dr. Patel said, but how did that proposal get dropped?
MS. POSNER: There was no proposal, Your
Honor. There is a provision in the plan -- it's at 170a
of the joint appendix -- which allows for rehabilitative
employment for disabled people who may have the physical
capacity to do work they were not doing before.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MS. POSNER: Thank you very much, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Rosenkranz.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
This Court got it right in Firestone when it
said, of course a conflict must be weighed. There's no
reason for this Court to overrode its well-reasoned and
unanimous conclusion which --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Dictum.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: It was dictum, Your Honor,
but it was very well-considered dictum because --
(Laughter.)
MR. ROSENKRANZ: -- the only issue before
the Court so far as the parties thought was what is the
effect of this dual role that Firestone had? And this
Court did not answer that question, but that's what the
parties were arguing about.
So this Court correctly discerned the rule
from trust law. It correctly discerned and balanced
ERISA's policies and, if anything --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What I don't like about the
dictum is I don't know what it means.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think it's lovely to say
weigh it as a factor, it gets the case off our docket
and it's fine. But what does it mean?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does it mean that a
perfectly reasonable decision that is within the
discretion -- I mean this plan says that MetLife will
have -- knowing that it will have the conflict, that
they will make the decisions and so long as they are not
arbitrary, they are valid.
Now, let's take a perfectly reasonable
decision. It is not arbitrary. Does giving weight to
the existence of the conflict which the settlor of the
plan expected to exist, does giving weight to that mean
that what was reasonable becomes unreasonable?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, the answer --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If it doesn't mean that,
then it means nothing.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Absolutely, Your Honor.
The answer is yes in many circumstances. And the beauty
of the Court's invocation of trust law is that trust law
answers the question. Trust law says that when you have
a fiduciary with a conflict, you apply especially
careful scrutiny.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but trust law
doesn't take into account what we have said repeatedly
in our ERISA decisions, which is we want to encourage
people to set up ERISA plans. And that has affected the
standards that we've adopted, for example, that we even
allow a conflict of interest like this to exist.
And it seems to me that your position is
going to hurt beneficiaries under ERISA plans because
people are going to say, as they're perfectly free to
do -- people, the employers, are going to say, as they
are perfectly free to do, you know, I'm just not going
to do it; if we're going to have judges looking at these
claims decisions on a de novo basis, who knows how much
it'll end up costing me, so I'm not going to set up
these plans.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, I understand,
and this Court considered that in Firestone, the
litigation cost and the added administrative costs, and
this Court concluded en route to de novo review that the
1132(a)(1)(B) remedy is so infused with the interests of
ensuring that the beneficiaries get their benefits due,
that that is the interest that the courts weigh most in
determining the standard of review.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you -- which
position do you adopt? It was only posed as
hypothetical, so I don't mean to attribute the position
to you; but the Justice Souter hypothetical or the
Justice Alito hypothetical?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, the answer is
both. They can happen under both circumstances --
circumstances. But let me explain why. What trust law
does is to say we apply especially careful scrutiny.
And the scrutiny has to be consonant with the purpose of
the scrutiny, which is to ensure that the conflicted
fiduciary does not end up subconsciously or consciously
tilting the scale.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that sounds
like the Justice Alito hypothetical. In other words,
the extra scrutiny has to be consonant with the purpose.
The purpose is to protect against the conflict. So if
the scrutiny doesn't reveal that the conflict played a
role, then it's -- then it's not an abuse of discretion.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: No, Your Honor, because
what trust law says is that you apply especially careful
scrutiny, which entails two things. The first thing is
what this Court called keeping the judicial eye peeled
for conflict of interest in Rush. So that's an
examination of the record of the decisionmaking process.
You kick the tires, you test the judgments, as the Sixth
Circuit did in this case, and you ask yourself, is this
the work of an unbiased fiduciary?
The second thing is to imagine a zone of
reasonableness within which a reasonably prudent trustee
might land and then say to yourself at the outer limits
of the zone of reasonableness, we will accept the
judgment of an unconflicted fiduciary because there is
no reason for us to suspect that he reached that result
because of the bias. For a conflicted fiduciary you can
contract that zone of reasonableness.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Trust law doesn't say.
Trust law does not establish a different standard of
judicial review for the conflicted trustee.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, it absolutely
does, and the 26 law professors in the amicus brief that
they filed with this Court explain exactly --
JUSTICE BREYER: But I don't know what to
look to in trust law. I mean, all that's happened here,
every life insurance -- every company, every life
insurance company has the kind of conflict that you're
talking about. Every company has the kind of conflict
you're talking about. And an automobile company might
make shoddy merchandise so it can make more money in the
short run.
How does trust law keep that kind of
conflict? Now, it can't be and it isn't, because I've
looked it up, I think, that trust law says that every
distribution by a trustee whose own fee depends on the
size of the trust is conflicted.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Absolutely --
JUSTICE BREYER: I doubt, since banks are
trustees, I doubt but I'm not sure here -- -
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that banks are
trustees -- suppose you were to say, look, the bank has
an interest in maximizing the amount of money in its
account and therefore every decision of a distribution
of such trustee is subject to some special thing.
Now, the problem for me in this case is what
in trust law do I analogize it to, not -- I don't doubt
for a second the 26 law professors, et cetera -- though
I do really sometimes, but not in this case.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: The -- the -- so what do I
look to? And where I ended up was I'd like an answer to
what I asked the other side. I ended up, I can't do
better than Firestone, I ought to write two words in
this opinion, and the standard, perfect; from the
opinion below, perfect. You want to know what I mean,
read the opinion below. Okay?
Now, what's your view on all of that?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: So let me break it down and
first turn to the premise. It is simply not correct
that every employer is conflicted.
JUSTICE BREYER: I overstated.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: Take the examples that I
gave. It's an ordinary insurance policy.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Okay. But the bank
example, Your Honor, that is not a pressure, which is
kind of a business pressure, that trust law recognizes
as a conflict of interest. Trust law acknowledges that
trustees are often, almost always, in the business of
administering trusts, and they don't -- they make their
money by doing the job well. The big difference is we
are talking here about a direct impact on the bottom
line.
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's, you see, their
point. Their point is this is just an ordinary
insurance company, an ordinary policy, and it's really
like a bank that's a trustee that in fact takes money
that hasn't been distributed and puts it on its own
account. They make money for that, from that. So there
is a conflict.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: You have that kind of
conflict.
What do you say about that?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Justice Breyer, it's just
wrong under trust law and it's wrong under the facts, as
everyone knows them to be in the insurance industry.
The insurance industry makes its money on the
differential between the premiums that it charges and
the payouts in claims.
JUSTICE BREYER: The bank makes its money by
putting money in an account, paying interest and lending
it at more money.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: But -- So let me give an
example from real life. MetLife, for example, shells
out $14 billion a year in ERISA covered claims. If it
denies one out of a hundred claims improperly, we are
talking about $140 million.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, and Chase Manhattan
bank has $14 trillion in trust accounts, and if they
just put in for three days money into an
interest-bearing account and lend it out for five
minutes, they will make $1 billion. Okay. You see,
they are finding these kinds of conflicts everywhere.
And that's what I'm asking you.
What I think if I were to add something I'd
say, look at this carefully, judge, look at it
carefully; but if all you find is an ordinary insurance
company doing ordinary work and there is no ground for
suspicion, proceed to step two. What about that?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Well, Your Honor, the first
thing to say is that -- if that is, in fact, an
authorized transaction, that would fall under the
self-dealing rules of trust law, and trust law
self-dealing rules are situations in which the set law
has actually suspended the duty of loyalty of the
trustee -- that's correct -- of the trustee.
That is absolutely impermissible under
ERISA. You cannot suspend the duty of loyalty under
ERISA. There is a clear provision about that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. -- Mr. Rosenkranz. I
think you set up basically three different kinds of
scenarios. And I want to set -- I want to put them into
my own words and -- and have you tell me whether I
understand your -- your point correctly.
Scenario number one is the case -- in each
of these scenarios, we have the same relationship
between the -- in effect, the trustee and -- and the
beneficiary that we have here. There -- there is a --
there is a built-in conflict. We don't know what its
effect is.
In scenario number one, the -- the evidence
is that the person making the benefits decision says
let's let this person suffer so that we can keep the
money. That is the easy case.
Scenario number two --
MR. ROSENKRANZ: I'm sorry, Your Honor, says
that explicitly in the claim file?
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's right, the -- the
e-mail shows up.
In -- in case number two, there -- there is
what you referred to as a decision within the zone of
reasonableness, but instead of being sort of in the core
of the center of the zone of reasonableness, it's close
to the edge. A decisionmaker could look at that
decision and say if there is no reason to be suspicious
about it, it's still within the zone of reasonableness,
and I don't think there is a conflict.
But if the decisionmaker knows that there is
this kind of structural conflict, the decisionmaker can
say look, I wasn't born yesterday; the reason it's so
close to the edge is that they were giving way to their
own self-interest in the conflict, and I'm going to
decide for the beneficiary and against the company.
Case number three is the case of the person
right on the fence, the decisionmaker. The
decisionmaker says, I've -- I've looked at everything
there is to look at and I cannot decide for sure what
this is, whether it was a legitimate decision or a
conflicted one in the -- in the decisionmaker's favor,
unless I take into consideration the fact that there is
this structural conflict.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, the
decisionmaker here is the court reviewing? Or --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No the decisionmaker is the
person who made the beneficiary -- the benefits
decision. And if I take into consideration the
structural conflict, that gives the decision to the
beneficiary and against the company.
Now, in case number two, it's close but
the -- but the fact of the conflict is regarded as,
itself, as substantive evidence and it -- it results in
a decision for the beneficiary.
In case number three, the evidence is in
equipoise, and to get off equipoise, the conflict rule
is taken as the tiebreaker.
My understanding is that your view is the
proper way to consider the conflict under Firestone is,
as I did in my hypo, in both case number two and case
number three. Am I correct?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: To consider it, yes, Your
Honor, but --
JUSTICE SOUTER: In other words, when we
take -- it is taken as substantive evidence to -- to get
us out of the zone of reasonableness in case number two.
It breaks the tie in case number three.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: No, Your Honor, absolutely
not. In case number two, if you are right at the edge
of the zone of reasonableness and there is nothing else
in the record to raise suspicions about the process by
which the decisionmaker got there --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But -- but the record has
the structural context.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor, except for
that what would appear to be at a -- right at the outer
bounds of reasonableness for an unconflicted fiduciary
could knock you over the fence, to use Your Honor's
earlier analogy, for a conflicted fiduciary.
Definitely not for scenario two. If the
decisionmaker is correct in the judgment of the court,
"Gee, I don't know where to go, this is really close,"
well, within the zone of reasonableness, in fact, in
Your Honor's hypothetical, you're right at the -- the
target center of the zone of reasonableness, then no, a
court would absolutely not hold --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No. But in my hypothetical
you weren't at the center of the zone of reasonable; you
were close to the edge.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Number three. In number
three, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Number three Honor we can't
make up our mind.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: But the decisionmaker, you
said, Your Honor, in number three, could not make up its
mind.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's right.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: And if the -- and if the
court confirms yes; the decisionmaker was right that
this was really close; you're right at the target center
of the zone of reasonableness and the conflict of
interest doesn't push you over. The only thing that the
conflict of interest could do there is the judicial eye
becomes peeled for other evidence of conflict which
would end up --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So -- so you -- I guess you
are saying it may be considered as substantive evidence
but it is not a process tiebreaker?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, let me rephrase
it. What I'm saying is two things. The first is
especially careful scrutiny, just in the abstract,
stepping back from the hypothetical, means that you
focus really carefully on the process by which the
decision was made, as the Sixth Circuit did in this
case. "This is strange, they are completely ignoring
this evidence. They are cherry picking. They are doing
about-faces." That's one.
Secondly, if you are at the target center of
the zone of reasonableness, and none of those procedural
irregularities have arisen, to be sure that the district
court reviewing would affirm that judgment --
JUSTICE ALITO: How does a reviewing court
know how far it can go from the outer boundary of the
zone of reasonableness when there is a conflicting
interest? Is it always -- and I don't know how thin you
can slice these standards of review. Is it always,
let's say 90 percent of the way to the outer boundary;
or sometimes it would be 80 percent; sometimes it would
be 70 percent?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, I --
JUSTICE ALITO: Does it work like that
depending on the facts of the case?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor, and that's
where the Court can't calibrate. What the Court can do
is provide very clear guidance to the lower courts.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And what would -- how
would you verbalize it?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: I --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because everybody talks
about yes, it's a factor, it's a relevant factor. But
if you are writing an opinion to give clear instructions
to the district judges who are the first-instance
judicial decisionmakers, what do you tell them?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: I would say first and
foremost -- I would say three things to the district
courts. Number one, this is not just some form of
arbitrary and capricious agency review with just a
little bit more bite. This is reasonableness review
under trust law, which is very, very different.
Number two, the judicial eye is peeled, as
this Court said in Rush, for conflict of interest. Kick
the tires. Here are seven, eight, nine illustrations of
the sorts of things that lower courts should be on the
lookout for as they are trying to discern whether the
conflict tainted the result.
Number three, if -- if you are at the outer
bounds of reasonableness for an unconflicted trustee,
you can contract that zone of reasonableness because you
don't -- when -- when an unconflicted trustee is right
at the outer edge, there is no reason to suspect his
motive.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose that the insurance
company shows or may be required to show, at least by
the burden of production, that it has established
firewalls, very careful procedures, written regulations
that claims administrators are not to consult with the
people that set policy and prices. Does that suffice to
permit, simply, abuse of discretion review?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: No, Your Honor. It would
be a factor --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that there is nothing
the fiduciary can do in order to avoid intrusive --
highly -- a high degree of scrutiny in review of every
close case?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Well, Your Honor, first,
just to be clear, we are talking about still a
deferential standard. It's just not as deferential as
it would otherwise be.
Absolutely. An insurer can come in and say,
look, we've created all these procedures; they have
mitigated the conflict, but it can never get --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that all insurance
company claims adjustors have less deferential review
than independent claims administrators?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor, unless the
insurance company comes in and can demonstrate in a case
that we've never heard of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You want us to institute
an industrywide rule differentiating insurance companies
from other --
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, one very
important thing to say about that is that under trust
law, an authorized conflict.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, is there an example
in trust law where, say, a bank's a trustee and they
self-insure in some area? Is there ever a case in trust
law that found that to be a conflict.
MR. ROSENKRANZ: I don't understand the
hypothetical, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I mean, you can
easily transpose this to other -- trusts are run by
banks often that are trustees. They're huge, and they
might self-insure in simple -- in certain circumstances,
in which case you reproduce something like the conflict
that's at issue here. And so --
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: And I think that -- my
guess, but I don't know. That's why I'm so nervous. Is
there any example where that kind of thing has ever been
held to be a conflict of interest?
MR. ROSENKRANZ: Only where what the bank is
doing is engaging in self-dealing that -- of the sort
that's authorized. Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Saharsky.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MS. SAHARSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Court should not turn a blind eye to the
conflict of interest that exists when an administrator
both evaluates and pays claims. Instead, an
administrator's discretionary decisions should be
reviewed for reasonableness where the conflict of
interest is considered as a factor. And what that means
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We've heard a lot of
talk about judicial eyes today, but it doesn't -- it
makes it sound as if abuse-of-discretion review is
nothing, and with the added factor you want to look more
closely. Courts undertaking abuse-of-discretion review
don't do it blindly. They look at it. It's just a
question of whether they give deference on the judgment
calls. And I'm still not -- I still don't understand
how the added factor or, in your case, the added seven
factors affects that issue of deference.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, we agree with the point
you're making, that the question in all of these cases
is the reasonableness, where there's a discretionary
clause, is the reasonableness of the administrator's
determination. That is the ultimate inquiry, and there
are any number of other facts and circumstances that
could suggest that the decision is unreasonable.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And --
MS. SAHARSKY: And one fact --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you say that one of the
things that can make it unreasonable is the mere fact
that there exists this -- this conflict.
MS. SAHARSKY: The conflict of interest.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That renders what is a
perfectly reasonable decision unreasonable. I --
MS. SAHARSKY: In very close cases.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that.
In very -- what kind of a standard is that, "in very
close cases"? How is -- how are you going to review a
court? I mean, give it some weight in very close cases?
It slops over. This is not a standard. I don't know --
I don't know what you're telling the courts to do.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, this is a standard that
comes from trust law, the reasonableness standard, and
this Court has recognized similar standards in all
different areas of the law where they've talked about --
where you've talked about reasonableness and abuse of
discretion review --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't mind
reasonableness and I don't mind abuse of discretion.
But you're telling me that even when the reasonableness
standard is met, if there is this conflict, if it's
close -- how close is close? You -- suddenly it flops
over the edge. I mean, you know, close to the out --
it's -- it's beautiful art, but I don't understand how
it turns into law.
MS. SAHARSKY: In every case, the court
would need to make a decision about reasonableness, and
in the cases where there is a conflict of interest that
needs to be weighed what the court would do is take a
close look at the administrator's rationale --
JUSTICE BREYER: Then what analogy? I agree
with your basic point. If I encapsulate it, you may or
may not agree with my encapsulation. This reminds me a
lot of the argument between Learned Hand and Felix
Frankfurter under what "substantial evidence" meant.
And like Learned Hand, your side, I think, or the first
argument, wants to find an absolute standard, a perfect
analogy, which Frankfurter said you can't do. Very
well.
What's worrying me is what is the analogy?
Because you're not saying it's just conflict-of-interest
law. You are analogizing it to a trustee who himself is
a remainderman. And it's at that point that I begin to
get off this boat because I'm not sure that's the right
analogy.
Now, you've looked through lots of cases.
Your colleague knows it better than you, and he hasn't
come up with something that's a better analogy. But do
you see what's bothering me? So, therefore I'm back
where I started: Two-sentence, two-word opinion. We
did our best in Firestone and this decision below is a
good illustration of how to do it. What can you add to
what I just said?
MS. SAHARSKY: First of all, this Court
should say that Firestone correctly set out the
framework for the de novo default standard of review and
what should happen in the case of a discretionary
determination where the plan confers discretion --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why --
MS. SAHARSKY: -- that review should be
under the trust law standard.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If we look at Firestone,
it's rather laconic. It's just says -- it says,
ordinarily, if you don't have this discretionary
authority, it's de novo review. And then -- this is on
page 115. It says if the fiduciary has discretionary
authority to determine eligibility benefits, then it's
not de novo. And what more does it say? I don't see
that it says anything more than that.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, both on pages 111 and
on 115, this Court was looking to the law of trusts.
There's a more extensive discussion on page 111, where
it says, for example, "If the trustee is given power to
construe disputed or doubtful terms, in such
circumstances the trustee's interpretation will not be
disturbed if reasonable." And then on page 115, using
that abuse of discretion reasonableness standard, the
Court said "If there is a benefit plan that gives
discretion to an administrator that is operating under a
conflict, the conflict must be weighed as a factor."
And Firestone told this Court to look to
trust law and trust law -- we think the best examples
there are the situations of a trustee who is also a
beneficiary or a trustee who is also a remainderman.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose an insurance
company -- I'll just repeat my earlier question -- has
done the best that it can do to have a firewall,
independence and so forth. Does that bear on whether or
not the less deferential standard of review is invoked?
MS. SAHARSKY: The standard of review would
be the same, which is review for reasonableness, but --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it makes no difference
what -- it makes no difference what the policies of the
companies are insofar as the standard of review?
MS. SAHARSKY: The standard of review is the
same, but the outcome could be different in that case
because what the insurance company did should be taken
into account when the court is making a judgment call,
the same kind of judgment call that courts have made in
equity cases for years.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: This --
MS. SAHARSKY: But --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: This bears upon the
question Justice Breyer asked, which we never could get
completely answered. Can you tell me what the Sixth
Circuit did wrong here?
MS. SAHARSKY: The Sixth Circuit correctly
determined that there needed to be greater scrutiny to
-- to the claims determination in this case. We would
quarrel with the Sixth Circuit's analysis calling that
abuse of -- or, I'm sorry, arbitrary and capricious
review because we don't think that that analogy to
administrative law makes sense. But what the Sixth
Circuit did was correct in this. There were a number of
factors here, for example the Social Security
determination, MetLife's participation in that, that has
suggested that this decision was unreasonable and could
not be upheld. Conflict of interest was a factor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think you're at all
saying that it's the same standard of review. You keep
saying that, and your friend said it, but it's not the
same standard of review. You say it's still the
reasonableness standard of review, but then you say,
however, the mere fact of the existence of the conflict
does at the edges make unreasonable what used to be
reasonable. That is a different standard of review. It
means you are not using a single reasonableness standard
of review. You're arguing for a second standard of
review that is so vague I don't know what it means. Why
not just say that the district court, when there is a
conflict of this sort, has to spend two more hours
considering the case?
(Laughter.)
MS. SAHARSKY: We think that the answer --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There's a clear rule, you
know.
MS. SAHARSKY: We think that the answer
comes from trust law. We think that the answer comes
from trust law, and these are judgment calls that courts
need to make --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But under trust law
--
MS. SAHARSKY: -- about whether a decision
was reasonable.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- we don't have --
we don't have an established policy of encouraging
people to establish trusts. We do have reflected in our
decisions an established policy of encouraging people to
set up ERISA plans.
MS. SAHARSKY: That's true, but that's
balanced against the strict fiduciary duties in ERISA,
that in cases of a conflict of interest suggests that
the plan administrator's determination needs to get
additional scrutiny. I understand that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right. Here are two
ways you could do it. You've spoken of reasonableness
analysis. By "reasonableness analysis," I mean and I
assume you mean that the person who is judging the
action taken says: Here are the good reasons on one
side that support the action; and here are the reasons
on the other side that in fact are critical of it,
suggest that it was wrong. Which one of these sets of
reasons is the strongest? That's what I sort of mean by
"reasonableness analysis." All right.
There are two ways that the structural
conflict could be taken into consideration in
reasonableness analysis. One is it could be taken into
consideration during this -- we'll call it the step one
process. We put the structural conflict on the -- on
the side of the scale that weighs against affirming the
decision. A second way to do it would be to go through
reasonableness analysis leaving the conflict aside for
the moment, and say, on regular reasonableness analysis,
do the reasons support the decision predominantly or do
they go against it, and let it go at that. But when
that kind of "reasonableness" analysis results in
something close to equipoise, then we take the
structural conflict into consideration; and that's what,
in effect, sort of breaks the tie.
Which of those models do we use? Do we use
the structural conflict as a reason in the step one
weighing, or do we use the structural conflict as a
tiebreaker.
MS. SAHARSKY: The structural conflict
should be used in the weighing although, for the
purposes of your hypothetical, I see the answer as being
the same in both situations that you posited. That the
conflict of interest would only make a difference in
close cases, yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's a question of when you
use it; and on the first hypothetical, you may not have
to use it at all.
On the second hypothetical, you have to use
it because you can't make a decision any other way. So
you're saying: Use it at step one as one of the
substantive reasons in your weighing analysis?
MS. SAHARSKY: That, we think, would be more
consistent with purposes --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if you're going to do
that, you have to tell me how much it weighs. You see,
if you use it in step two when things are in equipoise,
it doesn't matter how much it weighs. It's enough if it
weighs a feather. In the equipoise case you come out
the other way.
But if you're going to use it in the first
structural system to determine, you know, how much each
side -- I have to know its weight. And there is no
indication whatever as to what its weight is. It's
really up to the district judge, I guess, to decide how
much weight he is going to give to the fact that there
is this conflict.
MS. SAHARSKY: Can I answer the question?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MS. SAHARSKY: I think the problem with this
inquiry is that reasonableness does not have
mathematical standards. It's a determination that the
court needs to make weighing all of the facts and
circumstances.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not weighing
reasonableness. I'm weighing that factor of the
conflict. That's what you ask us to weigh.
MS. SAHARSKY: I think that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not reasonableness.
MS. SAHARSKY: The conflict is one of many
factors like the Social Security Administration's
determination and how it was treated in this case that
suggests that the plan administrator's determination was
unreasonable. I can't tell you that it weighs 10
percent or 20 percent in every case. It is something
that the Court has to take into account.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Then you should only use it
as a tiebreaker, I suggest, if you can tell me.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MS. SAHARSKY: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Miss Posner, you
have one minute remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF AMY K. POSNER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MS. POSNER: Thank you Your Honor. On
question one, I think it's important to know that the
zone of reasonableness and the size of the field is set
forth by the employer when it designates discretionary
authority and says that the standard of review is an
arbitrary and capricious one in court, which is the same
in ERISA as an abuse-of-discretion standard.
And the -- and the fact that's common and
known to the employer in setting forth that standard,
that there is this dual role, shouldn't change that
analysis at all, nor should it come into play in any
significant way whatsoever in these decisions. But
on question two, if there is a conflict that influence,
that's not what the employer was anticipating. And so
it -- it changes the size of the permissible field. And
to get to Justice Scalia's point, the actual conflict
there does matter because it changes the size of the
field. It's not what the employer was intending in its
plan. Now, if -- also on question two, if you view this
as a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What did you just say? I
don't understand that. The conflict was intended by the
employer. He appointed the --
MS. POSNER: Yes. The dual-role conflict
that everybody knows exists --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was intended by the --
MS. POSNER: -- was absolutely intended on.
Question one, we are saying at that point it doesn't
change the size of the field; it doesn't change the zone
of reasonableness; and, therefore, it should have no
effect.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
MS. POSNER: Thank you, Your Honors.
(Whereupon, at 11:13 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
administrative 47:2,5 49:19 15:16 26:25 26:1
56:6 administrator 49:17 51:14,14 54:19 24:2
28:16 22:11 44:6 55:6 3:24 basis 29:9
35:7 48:11 answer 9:10 art 46:6 bear 19:17
42:12 administrators 10:10 11:2 aside 52:4 48:20
21:20 41:24 17:2 18:2,3,5 asked 20:11,15 bears 49:10
21:25 44:8,25 46:12 29:25 32:15 34:19 behalf 1:16,18
42:1 51:10 54:9 50:16,19,20 Assistant 1:20 1:22 2:4,6,8,12
46:1 admit 13:14 52:18 53:19 assume 14:11,12 3:8 27:1 43:25
49:18 adopt 29:21 answered 49:12 51:15 54:20
55:2 advantage 6:4 anticipates 7:15 attribute 29:22 21:5 25:9
14:17 affirming 52:2 apparent 23:14 47:22,24 54:25 beneficiary
32:7 affordable appeals 10:19 authorized 35:2 35:18 36:18
34:6,16 19:15 appear 38:9 43:1,21 37:5,8,12
54:12 agency 41:5 APPEARAN... authorizes 3:20 48:16
aha 8:10 appendix 25:12 automobile benefits 6:20
33:7 Alito 15:16,25 application 15:2 available 19:15 11:10,20 12:8
51:16,17 30:9 40:5,14 applies 24:7 56:5 24:14,22 29:17
30:15 B 47:24
55:11
29:2 appropriate back 39:20 47:6 48:19
allows 5:3,11 12:3 backwards better 32:17
44:15,20 31:10 44:1 20:7 28:7,9 balanced 17:15 bias 31:4
amount 32:6 41:5 49:18 27:18 51:8 big 33:10
26:20 13:1 15:18 42:7 45:12,15 8:10,20 9:3,14
34:22 39:21 Chief 3:3,9 8:4 53:10 55:6 21:2,4 22:5,25
10:17,23,23 26:21,24 27:2 20:25 42:19 28:5,10,20
22:2,18,20 44:3,12 50:23 common 3:18 31:21 33:7,19
30:21 32:9,12 54:15,17 56:2 commonplace 36:12,14,17
31:12 36:19,19 37:9 23:23 30:21 companies 3:20 37:17 39:9,11
37:13,18,18,24 39:22 49:13,14 24:7 42:22 39:12 41:9,13
37:25 38:2 49:21 49:1 42:14 43:1,5
43:2,8 39:23 40:15 Circuit's 11:6 company 1:4 43:12,18 44:6
46:13 42:7,19 43:4 24:6 49:17 3:12 6:12,24 44:9 45:8,9
43:12 44:20 circumstances 7:6,22 11:23 46:3,10 48:12
49:3,16 50:14 30:1,2 43:11 17:14,14,19 50:6,13 51:9
22:5 53:10 54:8,11 45:2 48:7 18:24 20:18,20 51:23 52:1,4
56:3,5 53:25 31:14,15,16,17 52:10,13,14,16
22:9,23 23:13 22:12 23:9,11 41:21 42:16,19 55:17,19
claims 6:14 7:24 company's 23:9 4:17,18,22,24
cause 6:15 24:17 42:16,17 44:7 16:24 38:12
49:5,6 40:1 clause 44:25 16:13,15 15:10,11 16:21
central 20:10 clear 6:13 7:5 conclusion 27:7 17:17 21:14
43:11 35:9 40:18,24 confers 47:15 conflicts 15:21
6:8,10 7:16 12:21 13:4,15 deny 19:6 11:25 12:3,17
15:9 10:18,24 18:10 14:4,7,8,10 1:21 26:7,19
17:16 18:22,23 21:12 15:12 16:3,11 departure 16:3 disadvantage
37:6 21:13 23:2,2 16:14,16,18,22 depending 15:3 14:25 16:24
52:10 27:3,4,6,13,15 18:11 19:6 40:15 discern 41:12
39:15 30:17 31:11 22:3,6,16 31:23 27:18
37:3 38:14,19 23:20 24:10 design 11:17 discovery 21:17
40:17 41:9 35:22 36:6,10 designate 4:24 8:3,9 9:13,16
53:5 45:21 46:8,11 37:12 39:22 4:1 23:17 24:2
48:13 49:5 47:8 49:24 54:24 42:1 45:24
54:12 55:1 53:1 8:9 19:18,24 48:9,11
41:4,11 44:16 36:21 37:3,4 51:10 53:23 44:8,24 47:14
31:5 50:21 decisionmakers determine 8:7 discussion 48:4
Court's 11:3 41:1 9:14 19:13 displace 4:1
coverage 20:19 decisionmaking determined dissenting 24:5
covered 8:8 9:15decisions 6:12 determining distort 5:11
32:23 critical 51:18 55:7 27:10,21 distribution
37:19 curiae 1:22 2:9 deemed 3:14 differ 9:11 31:23 32:7
49:21 44:1 default 47:13 difference 9:21 district 18:23
35:14 D 44:21 33:10 48:24,25 50:12 53:16
49:14 D 3:1 deferential 52:20 disturbed 48:8
43:22 47:25 demarcation 7:5 differential 34:3 20:21 25:17
56:2 decide 36:18,22 demonstrate differentiating 26:20 33:10
10:25 55:4,9,13,18 evenly 17:15 7:11 9:24 10:5 12:10,21,24,24
55:5 employers 9:19 everybody 12:7,9 14:14 13:16,19 20:4
employer's 3:15 everyday 15:22 17:16 23:12 28:20 30:6,22
26:25 encapsulation 10:8 31:11 8:11 10:7 filed 31:11
38:12 encourage 28:24 30:19 20:13 27:24 filled 25:22
encouraging example 10:17 40:23,23 42:3 financial 4:17
ensuring 29:17 49:22 10:7 17:13,14 fine 12:15 27:25
41:18 entity 4:12 exist 14:9 15:21 facts 18:16 10:15,20,21
equipoise 19:5 28:11 29:2 33:25 40:15 13:10 14:16
27:14 equity 49:7 50:6 18:14 29:13 32:17
52:11 ERISA 3:12,19 exists 5:4 44:6 fall 35:2 37:17 47:8,12
3:24 6:9 7:15 45:8 55:20 far 10:20 27:13 47:19 48:13
12:23,24 15:21 explain 30:2 fashioning firewalls 6:14
28:24,25 29:4 explanation favor 20:14 first 3:4,17 21:8
ERISA's 27:19 36:2 feature 25:1 39:18 41:2
30:3,15 39:19 extra 30:10 fee 31:23 47:11 52:23
15:23 establish 31:7 eyes 44:13 15:8 20:13 40:25
51:4 e-mail 36:4 36:20 38:11 fit 19:14
41:22 51:3,5 F fiduciary 3:12 flops 46:4
55:4 14:19 16:19 held 43:18 52:25 3:4 8:6 20:18
10:10 11:8 high 42:6 41:10 48:17 49:4
16:23,25 18:7 highly 42:6 impact 33:11 14:25 16:17,25
goodness 23:4 18:17 19:10 54:22 8:20 9:7 13:10
19:2 26:23 27:9,22 independence 16:18,21 17:17
31:9 32:3 33:5 42:17 32:6 33:7 34:6
42:18,24 43:7 42:22 interested 9:19
18:15 H 43:14,21 54:21 infected 4:25 5:1 interests 5:20,24
19:17,20 Hand 46:16,18 Honors 24:12 11:1 5:25 6:5 7:19
23:19 happen 24:13 56:4 infects 6:10 21:14 29:16
26:3 30:1 47:14 Honor's 38:11 influence 55:8 interest-bearing
40:19,22 happened 31:13 38:17 information 34:16
hard 22:15 23:7 hoping 24:11 22:3 internal 21:18
34:8 23:16,21 24:1 25:24 50:13 inherent 3:23 48:7
44:18 Hartford's huge 43:10 10:25 intrusive 42:5
53:17 23:17 24:2,10 hundred 34:11 initial 12:17 invocation
health 8:6 hypo 37:18 45:1 53:22 invoked 48:21
40:3 16:10 17:6,10 42:4,15,21 lawyer 11:13,15 looks 9:11 20:20
24:20 20:8,8,9,10,15 kind 22:20 leaving 52:4 lovely 27:23
43:13 21:1,3,6,11,22 31:15,16,20 legitimate 36:23 lower 40:18
22:4,17,22 33:6,21 36:14 lend 34:16 41:11
26:3,14 49:6 52:8 letter 12:6 25:17 loyalties 5:10
30:8,9 31:6,12 13:9 14:19 35:23 40:10 majority 23:16
26:25 33:2,13,21,24 21:12,14 27:21 liabilities 3:13 making 6:7 13:4
34:21 36:3 37:4,22 32:19 35:19 31:14 34:9 35:22 44:23
38:6,20,25 38:15 40:6,8 limits 30:25 49:5
40:14,19,22 46:5 50:11,18 33:12 34:13
23:2 31:2 43:15,22 44:3 known 55:4 litigation 29:14 53:23
40:4 44:12 45:4,6 knows 29:9 34:1 little 22:15 41:6 matter 1:12 8:23
49:5,6 45:10,13,25 36:13 47:4 live 5:20 9:11 21:2
46:13 47:16,19 55:20 long 1:16 3:21 23:13 53:9
49:10,11 50:1 L longer 20:22 matters 18:13
31:8 51:12 52:22 land 30:25 8:25 9:1 10:17 32:6
41:1,8 53:6,20 54:1,5 Laughter 27:11 11:8 12:2,2 mean 4:15,16
54:13,15,17 32:13 50:15 17:4,9,24 5:25 8:12 13:5
4:4,15,20 27:18 28:18,18 34:21,21 36:9 28:2,4,11,14
K 28:19,22 30:2 36:15,22 42:13 29:22 31:13
7:3,10 K 1:16 2:3,11 30:15 31:6,7 44:15,17 46:12 32:19 43:8
8:4,18 3:7 54:19 31:10,13,20,22 47:19 48:13 45:16 46:5
10:2,8 keep 5:21 6:2 32:10,11 33:6 looked 13:3 24:5 51:14,15,20
11:4 7:18 9:18 33:7,25 35:3,3 31:22 36:21 means 5:24 8:13
19:14 31:20 35:4 41:7 43:1 47:3 10:18 13:11,12
13:2 35:23 50:2 43:3,5 45:20 looking 12:22,25 27:21 28:15
keeping 30:17 45:22 46:7,24 17:7 18:23 39:20 44:10
Kennedy 6:11 47:18 48:3,14 21:16 25:10 50:9,11
6:21 7:3,10,21 48:14 49:20 29:8 48:3 meant 46:17
16:5,6,7 7:25 41:20 50:20,21,23 lookout 41:12 medical 22:2,11
N October 12:7 pages 48:2 54:20
necessarily 5:25 okay 10:19,21 particular 8:20 26:9
50:6 need 9:6 22:19 15:15 18:17 23:9 plaintiff 22:7,18
needed 49:15 33:1,4 34:17 Patel 25:18 8:20 9:3 11:1
22:1 53:24 opinion 7:22 payor 18:20 17:24 18:19
12:7 never 42:14,20 47:7 Pegram 3:19 28:4,11 47:15
25:4,14 49:11 oral 1:12 2:2 3:7 7:16 48:10 51:10
28:4 34:9 nevertheless 26:25 43:24 people 21:19 54:9 55:14
New 1:18 23:1 42:5 29:5,6 41:25 8:17 19:14
3:4 2:7 43:24 ordinary 15:22 percent 40:10 51:6
46:1 3:21 organization 4:7 perfect 10:19,21 20:16 21:6,7
normal 23:7 32:17 perfectly 13:17 30:12
47:22,25 40:6,10 41:14 16:14 point 11:18
32:6 45:2 49:21 overturned 20:7 14:25 16:11,17 48:25
N.Y 1:16,18 overwhelming 16:21 19:21 policy 33:3,15
22:18 25:13 35:22,23 41:25 51:3,5
O 36:19 37:5 posed 19:8
21:21 procedure 8:7,7 Q reasonableness 25:15 26:6
8:22 9:15 quarrel 49:17 30:24 31:1,5 rehabilitative
3:6,7,9 procedures 6:23 question 5:17 37:24 38:3,10 relationship
5:6 7:23 41:23 9:10 10:8,11 38:16,18 39:9 35:16
6:6,17 7:1 42:13 10:24 11:3 40:2,7 41:6,15 relevant 22:6
8:13 proceed 34:24 12:16 18:2 41:16 44:9,24 40:23
9:16 10:1 process 21:4 19:8 20:9,9,15 44:25 45:20,23 relies 23:24
22:13 30:19 21:8,10 26:14 46:1,2,9 48:9 relying 24:18
38:4 39:16,21 27:15 28:19 48:23 50:5,9 remain 15:24
52:1 44:18,23 48:18 51:13,14,21,24 remainderman
processes 21:18 49:11 52:22 52:4,5,8 53:22 5:19 46:25
15:3 processing 6:15 53:19 54:22 54:2,5,23 48:16
7:24 55:8,14,23 55:25 remaining 54:18
17:3,7 production 7:4 questioning reasonably remains 9:16
41:22 12:12 30:24 remedy 29:16
professors 31:10 questions 7:12 reasoned 9:22 remember 8:16
32:11 24:24 9:24 10:3 9:5,13
22:9 profit 6:14 7:23 reasons 3:11 remembering
23:12,21 promoted 21:19 R 16:13,15 51:16 8:13
26:5,16 proper 17:1 R 3:1 51:17,20 52:6 reminds 46:15
54:17,19 37:17 raise 38:4 53:3 renders 45:10
55:19,22 properly 24:22 rationale 46:12 REBUTTAL repeat 48:18
proposal 25:4,7 reached 22:16 2:10 54:19 repeatedly
prove 11:5 22:7 32:20 45:21 replacement
provide 40:18 really 5:18 19:3 15:22 33:6 reproduce 43:12
35:9 10:5 12:19 refer 25:14 25:16 27:1
19:10 18:25 34:15 16:14 28:3,8 regular 52:5 Restatement
23:12 35:12 52:1 28:12 38:21 regulations 22:24
53:21 puts 33:17 45:11 48:8 41:23 result 6:18
28:13,16 29:12 28:19 30:15 see 9:9 14:20 sitting 15:8
31:9,25 32:3 36:1,21 47:20 25:5 26:7 situations 5:19
6:16,18 36:1 37:2,20 scale 30:7 52:2 self-dealing 35:3 30:20 39:22
9:10 16:6 38:1,8,23 39:2 scales 21:2 35:4 43:20 49:12,14,17,20
39:6,17 40:13 Scalia 4:15,20 self-insure 43:4 size 31:24 54:23
29:15,19 40:16,21 41:2 5:2,9 9:20 10:2 43:11 55:10,12,24
40:9 41:5 42:2,8,18,24 13:2,7,8,23,25 self-interest skepticism 11:8
42:1,6,16 43:6,14,19 14:1,3 27:8,20 14:22 36:17 slice 40:9
45:15 route 29:15 27:23 28:2,14 sense 25:6 49:20 slide 5:25
47:13,17 rule 16:25 17:18 31:6 45:4,6,10 sent 25:17 slip 6:9
48:21,22 27:17 37:14 45:13,25 50:1 separate 25:3 slipped 6:4
49:1,2 42:22 50:17 50:17 53:6 separately 3:13 slops 45:17
50:2,4,5 rules 6:13 35:3,4 54:1,5,13 separation 6:2 smell 13:5
run 25:5 31:19 55:16,21 seriously 16:9 smells 13:5
43:9 Scalia's 5:17 set 12:4 28:25 Social 11:10,19
40:4,5 S 35:21,25 38:13 47:12 51:6 Solicitor 1:20
17:14,21 safety 19:15,16 35:16 sets 51:19 sorry 24:9 36:1
Saharsky 1:20 scrutinized setting 55:4 49:18
20:12 2:7 43:23,24 21:24,25 settlor 9:1 22:25 sort 22:7 36:7
24:16,16 44:3,22 45:5,9 scrutinizing 28:10 43:20 50:13
36:3,20 45:12,19 46:8 22:1 seven 41:10 51:20 52:11
39:5 47:11,17 48:2 scrutiny 24:6 44:20 sorts 41:11
41:17 48:22 49:2,9 28:21 30:3,4,5 shells 34:9 sound 44:14
51:12,21 49:14 50:16,19 30:10,12,16 shoddy 31:18 sounds 12:15
9:9 20:8 52:16 53:4,19 49:15 51:11 show 7:5 11:20 Souter 4:4 14:11
28:22 53:21 54:4,6 searching 6:16 41:21 14:18 15:5,7
30:8 54:16 second 11:3 shows 22:11 15:15 16:10
44:12 saying 5:7,22 21:10 30:23 36:4 41:21 17:6,10,13,21
51:2 6:21 7:1,2 8:1 32:11 50:10 side 6:14,15 18:1,4,7,9 19:8
54:15,17 9:20,25 16:12 52:3,25 32:16 46:18 20:11 29:23
17:12 19:3 secondly 4:3 51:17,18 52:2 35:10 36:3
21:4,6,7 39:15,18 46:23 section 7:23,24 significant 55:7 38:20,25 39:5
27:14 50:2,3 53:2 Security 11:10 similar 45:21 39:14 51:12
55:5 55:23 11:19 12:9,20 simple 43:11 52:22
2:5 26:24 11:24 18:19,20 54:7 32:23 42:1 20:9 21:1
27:2,9 18:23 19:25 sedentary 25:5 single 50:9 special 32:8
28:1 20:3,22 28:4 25:20,25 26:10 sit 25:23 specialist 25:15
substantial 15:9 16:19 30:16 39:18 22:13
25:18 37:11,23 39:15 36:25 37:6,23 think 5:17,18 treated 54:8
6:16 8:3 suffice 41:25 49:4 51:16,23 20:10 21:23 trillion 34:14
16:4,6 suggest 45:3 51:24 22:19 27:23 true 51:7
22:21 51:19 54:14 takes 33:16 31:22 34:20 trust 6:9 8:24,25
31:7 suggested 49:24 talk 44:13 35:11 36:12 9:3,6 22:22
42:10 suggestion talked 45:22,23 43:15 46:18 23:7 27:18
11:11 19:1 talking 4:20 48:14 49:19 28:18,18,19,22
47:13 suggests 51:9 24:22 31:16,17 50:1,16,19,20 30:2,15 31:6,7
48:9,21 54:9 33:11 34:12 53:4,21 54:4 31:13,20,22,24
49:1,2 support 51:17 42:9 54:22 32:10 33:6,7
52:6 talks 40:22 thinking 23:10 33:25 34:14
55:2,4 supported 24:10 target 38:18 Third 23:23 35:3,3 41:7
45:21 2:9 22:14 44:2 targets 20:22 thought 16:1 45:20 47:18
supports 22:3 teach 10:17 27:13 48:14,14 50:20
7:9,15 Supreme 1:1,13 53:7 54:10,14 38:23,24,25 24:19 30:24
sure 14:19 15:8 telling 45:18 39:3 41:3,14 31:8,23 32:8
53:2,8 23:14 32:2 tenant 5:20 37:25 52:11 35:17 41:15,17
23:6 suspect 31:3 8:15,16 9:2 52:15 54:14 trustees 32:2,5
36:14 suspicions 38:4 Thank 3:9 26:21 tires 30:20 41:10 trying 41:12
38:7 suspicious 36:10 26:22 43:21,22 today 3:4 44:13 tugs 4:6
52:1,10 swiftly 25:3 54:15,16,21 told 15:5,7 turn 32:23 44:5
system 53:13 56:2,4 48:13 turned 12:18
thin 40:8 tolerates 7:17 turns 46:7
T 2:1,1 32:8 35:1 totally 11:21,24 8:19 10:20
14:14,17 15:1 things 15:4 transparent 34:24 35:25
37:9,18 upheld 49:25 ways 51:13,22 work 8:4 10:13 111 48:2,4
38:2,13 use 7:24 11:16 Wednesday 25:20,25 26:7 1132(a)(1)(B)
41:8 23:15 38:11 1:10 26:10,20 30:22 8:14 29:16
51:12,22 52:12,12,14,23weigh 15:4 34:23 40:14 1132(a)(2) 24:18
55:8,14 52:24,25 53:2 27:24 29:18 worrying 46:22 115 47:23 48:3,8
U.S 11:24 weighed 6:19 17:6 154 23:22
V 46:11 48:12 written 12:6
38:10 verbalize 40:20 13:12,20,24 2008 1:10
versus 3:5 18:25 21:9 X 23 1:10
18:24 32:21 37:16 welfare 3:25 Y 29 8:14
21:9,21 55:14 well-being 7:20 year 34:10
23:6,8 vital 7:18 15:24 well-considered years 12:21 49:7 3
29:12 19:15 27:10 yesterday 36:15 3 2:4
43:6 vocational 22:2 well-reasoned York 1:18 3d 23:22
45:13 25:15 27:6
51:11 Z 4
W zone 30:23 31:1 43 2:9
51:25 5
WANDA 1:7 37:24 38:3,16
8:21 11:7 54 2:12
17:1 10:18,21 18:11 40:2,7 41:16
17:7
29:8 7
32:19 35:12,12 we've 21:9 29:1
$14 34:10,14
55:7 80 40:11
7:9,15 Washington 1:9 willing 13:14 0 9
1:21 withdraw 26:4 90 40:10
26:12,12
14:4 36:15 woman 11:10
45:3,7 way 10:16 13:6 25:5 1
49:24 16:19 19:7 words 4:19 10 54:10
54:10 20:24 36:16 10:20 20:24 10:10 1:14 3:2
52:3 53:1,11 35:13 37:22 1109 24:21
