IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
QUANTA COMPUTER, INC., :
ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 06-937
LG ELECTRONICS, INC. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 16, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:16 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Petitioners.
THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
Petitioners.
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
supporting the Petitioners 16
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:16 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in Case 06-937, Quanta Computer v. LG
Electronics.
Ms. Mahoney.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN E. MAHONEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MS. MAHONEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Under this Court's exhaustion cases,
exhaustion has always been triggered when two criteria
have been satisfied and the district court properly
dismissed these claims because it found that they were
satisfied here on the undisputed facts. The first is
that there must be an authorized sale under the patent
that was allegedly infringed. That's never been in
dispute in this case. The Federal Circuit recognized
that Intel was authorized to sell these components under
the system and method patents at issue in the case that
have been allegedly infringed.
And the second criteria is that the article
sold must be one that falls within the protection of the
patent that was allegedly infringed, here the system and
method patents. But as Univis holds, that test doesn't
apply simply to articles that would directly infringe
the patent, because the law with contributory
infringement standards provides that protection to the
patent owner also to articles that would contributorily
infringe. In other words --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Ms. Mahoney, can I just
get one thing straight in my mind. Which transaction
triggered the exhaustion doctrine in your judgment, the
general license to Intel or the sale by Intel to Quanta.
MS. MAHONEY: I think they work in
combination here, Your Honor, because once the sale
was -- once the license was entered into with Intel and
once unrestricted rights were given to make, use and
sell components that would infringe, otherwise infringe
these patents, there was really nothing else that could
happen --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Was the license
unrestricted? That's one of the reasons I asked the
question. Wasn't there a use restriction on the resale?
MS. MAHONEY: Well, there was -- what there
was, the sale was authorized. The sale was authorized.
What --
JUSTICE STEVENS: On the condition that it
be sold to someone who would not use it on non-Intel
products.
MS. MAHONEY: I don't think that's what the
lower courts found and I don't think that's what the
argument has ever been, Your Honor. I think this is
just like Bobbs-Merrill. There is a -- this Court has
recognized that there is a difference between actually
conditioning the seller's authority to sell to someone
who's going to use it for some prohibited purpose, and
that would be a case like General Talking Pictures,
where it says, you do not have authority to sell to
someone who's going to use it for the home market. But
Bobbs-Merrill says if what you do instead -- it was a
copyright case that was applied in Motion Picture
Patents. If what you do instead is you give them
authority to sell, you don't say you'll be in breach if
you sell it to somebody who's going to sell books at
below the retail price I've specified, if instead what
you do is say, you have to agree you'll give them notice
that the -- that the owner of the invention, or in that
case the copyright, is not agreeing to your use of these
books or sale of these books at below a certain price,
that doesn't count. There's still an authorized sale,
that when -- that you can't -- that the patent owner
can't try to retain part of the monopoly right to sell.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if that's true
then this case really isn't a big deal at all. It just
depends on exactly how you word the contract when the
patentee sells it to a purchaser. You can word it -- in
other words, you can word it in such a way that the
patentee's rights extend further downstream and you're
saying all this case turns on is whether the wording
here was correct or not.
MS. MAHONEY: Well, the wording hasn't been
in dispute, but a lot of important things turn on it,
because of course if Intel didn't have the authority to
make these sales, it would be liable for contributory
infringement. And undoubtedly when Intel decided how
much to pay for this license it cared deeply about
whether it was going to be exposed to that liability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I understand
your position to -- to acknowledge that they could have
structured the sale to Intel in such a way as to achieve
the same result that you're saying is so bad under the
patent laws.
MS. MAHONEY: I don't think so, Your Honor.
Once they have an authorized sale, then the results are
different, because if there has been an authorized sale
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I give you a specific
example? I think the Chief has something on this order
in mind. Could the patentee say to the licensee, to the
Intel, that, I license you to sell only to buyers who
have a license from the patentee? Could -- could the
licensee be limited in that way?
MS. MAHONEY: They could do that, and let me
explain the consequences of doing that. If Intel then
under those circumstances sold to a buyer who did not
have a license, Intel would be liable for contributory
infringement because it wouldn't be an authorized sale,
and the buyer would be liable for infringement because
it didn't acquire the goods through an authorized sale.
If the buyer instead has the license, has obtained the
license from the patentowner, then there has been an
authorized sale and any remedies that the owner of the
patent would have against the buyer would be those found
in contract, because the triggering line under this
Court's cases is has there been an authorized sale? And
this makes perfect sense because --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But explain to me --
perhaps I should ask Mr. Phillips this question -- but
why isn't it done that way? The way -- if the patentee
wants to maintain control further down the line, why
doesn't the patentee just limit the licensee to selling
to people who are licensed?
MS. MAHONEY: Presumably because in this
circumstance -- it's not in the record -- but presumably
Intel wouldn't agree to these terms unless it in fact
was given authority to sell, no matter how it was going
to be used, because otherwise it would still be on the
hook for liability. And -- and presumably they could
have done something that would have required an
agreement with -- you know, between -- only sell to
someone with an agreement. But for whatever reason the
parties didn't negotiate that term. Perhaps Intel
wasn't willing to do it that way.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the parties are
unwilling to spell out exactly how this is going to work
out in their contract, and each side, it prefers to take
their chances on how the Federal Circuit's going to
rule. It's easier to sell these things if they're not
encumbered by these additional license requirements and
the manufacturer presumably gets a lot more, but there's
a lot of uncertainty, uncertainty that could have been
cured by how the contract was drafted, and people prefer
to live with that uncertainty and litigate rather than
clear it up in the contract.
MS. MAHONEY: Well, I think that this
Court's ruling would certainly make things clear, but I
think that the language of the contract recognizes that
the -- specifically says that, notwithstanding anything
to the contrary, the ordinary operation of patent
exhaustion is supposed to apply here. In other words, I
think Intel knew --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Fine, and the person
who wrote that provision knows that the question of how
the patent-exhaustion doctrine applies is the subject of
great confusion, so much confusion that the Supreme
Court's going to have to decide it, and yet they put
that in there rather than spelling out in the contract
exactly which they had in mind, whether or not you could
impose these further restrictions or couldn't.
MS. MAHONEY: But, Your Honor, I think that
under this Court's decision in Univis Lens, as the
district court recognized, the answer in this case is
actually quite clear what the patent-exhaustion doctrine
would require. And the reason it's clear --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it wasn't
clear to the Federal Circuit, I guess.
MS. MAHONEY: It wasn't clear to the Federal
Circuit, but it was clear to the district court, showing
that the idea that somehow it was absolutely known to
everybody what the outcome of this issue would be is not
correct. The district court, I think correctly,
understood that Univis Lens was the controlling case.
Of course, the Federal Circuit didn't even cite it. But
the district court found that the Univis Lens standard
was satisfied because these components were necessarily
manufactured in a manner that satisfied, that included
the functionality of the system and method patents at
issue here. At 30a, the district court looks to LGE's
own claim charts and says that their own allegations
show that they were manufactured in a way that met many
of the limitations of the claims.
In addition, at 67 of the petition appendix,
she says that by attaching the components, the Intel
chips, to the -- the other generic wires and memory, it
necessarily caused these products to infringe. And, at
46, she says, "Failure to follow Intel's design
specifications would render the computers inoperable."
So, this is a case where there's just no
question that if LGE's allegations are correct these
products would have contributorily infringed. So Intel
knew that in order to avoid potential liability to -- to
LGE, that it had to get full authority to sell, and it
did. And there's never been any dispute about that.
Instead, there's simply the Federal Circuit's view that
even if you have an authorized sale, that the
patentowner is nevertheless allowed to say, okay, I
authorize the seller to sell it to anybody, but I want
to retain the right to control the use of the -- of the
buyer. And that's exactly what this Court's cases have
always said, with the exception of A.B. Dick, cannot be
done because the whole point of the exhaustion doctrine
is to demarcate the line between where the monopoly
power to control rights to use and sell end and where
any rights under contract must begin.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, there's one --
there's one more wrinkle that you don't expressly advert
to and that is the argument that what is in issue here
are the -- are the systems and methods patents, rather
than the -- the equipment component patents.
MS. MAHONEY: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And that with respect to
the equipment component patents nothing is being
retained, but with respect to the systems and method
patents nothing was being granted. What is your answer
to that answer to your argument?
MS. MAHONEY: It's completely inconsistent
with the way the case has been litigated from the outset
as well as the terms of the contract. At page 5 of the
petition appendix, the Federal Circuit acknowledges that
Intel had full authority to sell these components under
all of the patents, including the system and method
patents. If it didn't have authority to manufacture and
sell under the system and method patents, it would be
potentially liable for contributory infringement. And
in fact LGE has acknowledged in its brief in footnote 7
that Intel isn't potentially liable for contributory
infringement under the terms of this agreement.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So the answer simply is
that that the argument rests upon a mistake of fact
which has not been challenged in the record?
MS. MAHONEY: It absolutely has not.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes.
MS. MAHONEY: The component patents are not
at issue here at all. And the idea that you couldn't
have one patent on a component and another patent on a
system where the component would contributorily infringe
is nonsensical. These components had thousands of
patents on them. And certainly the argument isn't that
by authorizing the sale of the component all of the
owner's rights are released in that. If, instead, there
had been a sale of a component where a patent owner
says, I'll authorize you to sell my -- my -- that
component under my component patent, but if you sell it
under my system patent -- I'm not giving you authority
to sell it under my system patent, so if you sell it,
I'm going to sue you for infringement, that didn't
happen here, and it's never been litigated in that way.
Instead, that first criteria of the
authorized sale has plainly been satisfied, and the only
question in this case has been whether or not this
satisfied the contributory infringement standard that
Univis Lens uses to define what articles --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Ms. Mahoney, I understand
that's really the way it's been litigated, but I have to
confess I was puzzled by the court of appeals' statement
that the granting of the license constituted a sale for
exhaustion purposes, and they cited the Masonite case
for that proposition, but it doesn't seem to me to
support that proposition.
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, I think all that
that really is saying is that at a point when you enter
into -- a patentowner enters into an unrestricted
license to make, use, and sell with a manufacturer, then
at that point any articles that are manufactured under
that license, effectively the patent's been exhausted.
But I think it's easier to --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It's not exhausted by the
manufacturer, is it?
MS. MAHONEY: No. For contributorily
infringing --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It's exhausted under this
view by the licensee's sale of an article that it
manufactured pursuant to the license.
MS. MAHONEY: But -- right, manufactured
pursuant --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And it seems to think
there's no distinction between the sale itself and the
basic underlying license, whereas I had thought for
years that there was recognized a distinction between
those two transactions.
MS. MAHONEY: Well, I think that it just
means that once you have that transaction any sales that
occur for those articles under that license are going to
be exhausted by definition. But, you know, we have
certainly focused on the sale of the articles to Quanta
from Intel, and I think, you know, it makes sense to
look at it that way.
And, as indicated, there really is -- there
have been arguments that somehow this deprives the
patentowner of the right to collect its full royalty,
but that doesn't make any sense. Because if you -- if
you look at the rights that are afforded under
contributory infringement, what Congress has done in
Section 271(c) and what this Court had done before was
to say that if you are the owner of a system patent or a
method patent, you can go ahead and collect your royalty
when someone sells a product that will contributorily
infringe.
In other words, your -- your product is
sufficiently -- your patent is sufficiently embodied in
those contributorily infringing products that it's
appropriate for you to collect your royalty there.
That's exactly what happened in this case. LGE did get
its royalty from Intel, did give them authority to sell
products which would otherwise contributorily infringe,
and now what it's seeking to do is to say, despite the
authorized sale, despite the fact it would
contributorily infringe, we want to collect another
royalty from the buyer of the product that can't use it
for any other purpose. Why? Well, because we have --
we had them sent a notice that said we wanted to do
that.
Under this Court's cases, that is completely
impermissible. In two cases in particular, Motion
Picture Patents, they tried to do the exact same thing.
And in the Millinger case the patentowner said that it
had never gotten paid for the extension rights under its
patent. And this Court said: Nope; once you've sold
the article, that's the royalty you get.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I see your white light is
on. I have just one question. Are there cases where
some downstream restrictions on use might be necessary
to prevent the patent from becoming worthless, i.e., in
the biological area for replication of seeds in
agriculture and so forth?
MS. MAHONEY: Well, what we're -- exhaustion
is triggered when -- with respect to the rights to
control and use. Rights to make are treated
differently.
Univis, of course, though, holds that when
you're talking about the sale of a contributorily
infringing product, you're really talking about the
right to -- to make it, to use it, to complete the --
complete the article. But I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought Univis was one
of your principal cases.
MS. MAHONEY: It is, absolutely. It holds
-- in other words, what Univis holds is that when you
have an article that is uncompleted -- it's not finished
-- as in this case, by the -- the sale will -- will
mean, by definition, that you can use it to complete the
article.
I'd like to reserve the remainder of my
time. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Mahoney.
Mr. Hungar?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS G. HUNGAR
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
MR. HUNGAR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
For 150 years this Court has held that an
authorized sale removes the particular item sold from
the protection of the patent laws. The court below
erroneously transformed that patent-exhaustion doctrine
from a definitional principle that delimits the scope of
the patent grant into an optional default assumption
that can be discarded at the whim of the patentee.
If the rationale of the court of appeals were correct,
this Court's decisions in cases like Univis, Motion
Picture Patents, Straus, Bauer and Boston Store would
have to have gone the other way, because in each of
those cases this Court held that the exhaustion
principle overrode express restrictions that the
patentee had attempted to impose on after-sale use or
resale by an authorized purchaser.
This Court should follow its precedents and
reaffirm the principle that the patent-exhaustion
doctrine precludes a patentee from employing the patent
law to enforce post-sale restrictions on use or resale
by authorized purchasers, that is --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Hungar, is there a
reason why Congress codified this doctrine in the
Copyright Act, but not in the Patent Act?
MR. HUNGAR: We -- there's nothing in the
legislative record that would explain that, Your Honor.
Presumably it's because Congress wanted to specify
particular limits, which Section 109 of the Copyright
Act does. It wanted to specify particular limits to
define the scope of the doctrine in the copyright
context in a way that it has not sought -- found it
necessary to do in the patent area.
But there's no legislative history about
this. I mean, this Court has said that the 1952 act
codified, recodified, and readopted, reaffirmed, the
principles of the Court's cases on infringement
generally. Obviously --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the PTO didn't take
any position on whether it should be codified?
MR. HUNGAR: I'm not aware of anything in
the legislative history of the 1952 codification on the
subject of the patent exhaustion doctrine one way or the
other; but, obviously, Congress did not express any
dissatisfaction with it.
It did change certain aspects of patent law,
but it did not attempt in any way to override or change
the effect of the first-sale doctrine, which under this
Court's cases has been perfectly clear for well over a
century and has the effect we've suggested.
And we submit that, although the Respondent
essentially ignores or runs away from the rationale of
the court of appeals, we submit it's important for this
Court to explicitly address and explicitly reject the
Federal Circuit's misunderstanding of the
patent-exhaustion doctrine, its view that a patentee can
essentially override it simply by attaching a notice to
the article that has been sold in an authorized sale.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Although you think
it can be overridden simply by providing in the contract
that the same rights and remedies would be available?
MR. HUNGAR: No, Your Honor. I mean, it
depends a little bit on what contract we're talking
about and what it says. It is true, as Justice Stevens
indicated, it has always been true, that this Court has
deemed a license under a patent to be different from a
sale of a particular article under a patent. It is the
sale of the article that exhausts. The license does not
-- exhaustion doesn't -- isn't relevant at the mere
licensing stage.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A mere license can
prevent the application of the patent-exhaustion
doctrine?
MR. HUNGAR: Well, only at the -- only at
the level of the licensee. That is, if it is true, as
Ms. Mahoney said, if the -- if LG here had given a
restricted license that restricted the right to sell,
that said you can only sell in these instances, and if
Intel then sold outside those permitted instances, that
would be patent infringement.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And it would be
patent infringement by the use of the product by the
people that Intel sold to?
MR. HUNGAR: Yes, because it was an
unauthorized sale.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That would sound
like your friend on the other side, the Respondent, had
actually won in this case.
MR. HUNGAR: Well, that's right. If this
had been an authorized sale -- I mean an unauthorized
sale, they would win. But, of course, it's been
accepted throughout the case, and the court of appeals
explicitly said at page 5A, and it's been undisputed,
that Intel had the right to sell these items to these
Petitioners.
They had the right to sell. It was not
infringing. And if it's not "infringing," by
definition, it's an "authorized" sale. It's authorized
under the patent explicitly by the license agreement.
JUSTICE BREYER: But you couldn't put in --
you are authorized to sell the bicycle pedals that I
have patented only if you impose a restriction that will
tell the bicycle user that he must send me a check for
$15 in addition to whatever he pays you. That sounds
unlawful under contract law.
MR. HUNGAR: Well, it might be lawful. You
could certainly do what, in fact, I think some of the
seed companies --
JUSTICE BREYER: Or you are going to have --
I mean, there's a doctrine that you cannot impose
equitable servitude's upon chattel.
MR. HUNGAR: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's a contract law
doctrine.
MR. HUNGAR: It would not be enforceable as
a matter of patent law against the authorized purchaser.
If -- if the licensee does what the licensee is
obligated to do, it imposes the -- it attaches the
notice or it requires the --
JUSTICE BREYER: My thought is that the
reason that these things are important and you can't
just draft your way around them is because there are
antitrust doctrines, there are contract-law doctrines,
that also limit in significant ways what you can and
cannot write into a contract.
MR. HUNGAR: That's exactly right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think that's
an important question. I understood the argument at
page 16 of your brief to say that the patent-exhaustion
doctrine doesn't apply in that situation and that you,
therefore, can't have the rights and remedies under
patent law.
You told me earlier that if the person to
whom Intel sells the product uses it contrary to the
license stipulation, they would be liable for patent
infringement.
Your answer to Justice Breyer suggests to me
that you're saying only that they're liable to -- for
contract infringement, and that's a very big difference.
MR. HUNGAR: Well -- but, Your Honor, it all
goes back to the question: Was there an authorized sale
of the article at issue? If the sale is authorized, if
what the licensee --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sale from whom to
whom?
MR. HUNGAR: The sale from the licensee to
the purchaser. The license is not a sale -- is not a
sale for purposes of the patent exhaustion. I think
that the Federal Circuit was just wrong in saying that,
because what the patent-exhaustion doctrine talks about
is the sale of an article. All the cases say the sale
of the particular article removes that article from the
-- from the patent monopoly.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But what you --
well, but what you say in your brief is that in the
situation we're talking about the licensee stands in the
shoes of the patentee. Now, if that's right it seems to
me that you're telling me that the patent remedies are
available and not simply contractual remedies.
MR. HUNGAR: No. What we're saying is this.
If -- if the licensee has a restricted license, that is
its right to sell is restricted, it can only sell on
Mondays and not on Tuesdays --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well --
MR. HUNGAR: -- and it sells on a Tuesday.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, or, more
pertinently, it can only sell if the person they sell to
agrees not to use the product in a certain way.
MR. HUNGAR: Fine. If they have that
restriction and they sell and they do not -- they do not
obtain the contractual promise of the party that they
are obligated to obtain, they're violating the terms of
their right to sell. It's patent infringement by the
seller, and if the buyer uses it it's patent
infringement by them as well.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Exactly. That's the
critical point. You're telling me that if the buyer, in
other words, the kind of third person in this chain,
uses the patented article in a way that is contrary to
the license that was given to the second person in the
chain, then he is liable for contributory infringement
under the patent laws and not, as I understood you to
answer to Justice Breyer, only under contract law.
MR. HUNGAR: Yes, because --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you sue under
patent law or just contract law?
MR. HUNGAR: If -- in your hypothetical, as
I understand it, it's an unauthorized sale. The
licensee does not have the right to sell under the
patent in those circumstances, and therefore the
exhaustion principle does not apply.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But not every infringement
of the license is necessarily an unauthorized sale.
MR. HUNGAR: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So there could be a
restriction in the license which is not a restriction on
sale and that could be violated. And the exhaustion
doctrine would still apply, and you might have remedies
in some another theory, i.e., contract.
MR. HUNGAR: That's correct. That's
correct. Likewise, what happens in the real world is
the patentee, if the patentee wants to restrict what
people can do downstream, they say to the licensee, you
can only sell if you obtain a contractual promise from
the purchaser.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Are you saying that this
case would come out differently if instead of just
requiring a notice that the -- the item should only be
used on Intel products, that had been a condition of the
license. If the license itself said you may manufacture
and sell to only people who agree to use the product
exclusively with Intel products?
MR. HUNGAR: Yes. In if those
circumstances, if Quanta had -- if that -- if that
license condition --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So the key fact in this
case is it was just a requirement of giving notice
rather than a condition in the license?
MR. HUNGAR: But let me be clear. The key
distinction is between an authorized sale and an
unauthorized sale. So if there is an authorized sale,
that is, Intel --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand that.
MR. HUNGAR: Well, I think I haven't been
clear, because I want to make sure that that the
consequences are clear --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The big key is what is an
authorized sale? And I'm asking you if the -- if the
license agreement to the -- to Intel had said you may
only sell to people who agree to use the products on the
patentee's products, that then would -- and they did
otherwise, they didn't get -- then it would not have
been an authorized sale?
MR. HUNGAR: Correct, and it would be patent
infringement. But if they sold and the purchaser did
agree, they did enforce that requirement, they did
require the purchaser to sign a promise -- may I finish,
Your Honor -- to promise to limit the use and the
purchaser then violated that promise, the point is that
would be a breach of contract but it would not be patent
infringement because the sale was authorized, the patent
monopoly ends and only contract principles control
thereafter.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Hungar.
Mr. Phillips.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Justice Souter, I want to go to your
question, because, frankly, I think it is the key to the
entirety of this case. And that is, what is the "it"
that we are talking about? And what's absolutely
critical here is, yes, there was -- you know, this is
the first sale doctrine. It's easy to call it
patent-exhaustion, but the truth is it's the first sale
doctrine.
And the question is, what was sold here?
And the only sale that was involved here was the
chipsets. And there is a completely separate patent
that deals with the rest of the system and that deals
with the method. And nothing -- and this is the key
point of this. The exhaustion doctrine only goes as far
as the sale.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but there's
nothing to do with these chipsets other than use them in
the computers. I mean, you don't put them on your
shelf. They're not good for anything other than using
in the computer. So saying there's a separate patent
for how you use them with the other systems doesn't seem
to be very significant.
MR. PHILLIPS: It would be -- and that's why
you would ordinarily -- you don't deal with this as an
exhaustion issue. That's why you would deal with this
as an implied licensing issue.
The assumption would be, in the absence of
clear evidence to the contrary, that if I'm selling you
something that only has a single use and that's in a
separate patent, that you in fact are being licensed to
go and use it that way. But what's absolutely critical
in this case is that both the district court and the
court of appeals specifically rejected the notion that
there was any implied license. And it's important to
realize this.
Even as we approach this case, we didn't sue
for any of the activities that predated when the other
side received its notice. We sued only for the
activities post notice. Why? Because at that stage it
was absolutely clear that there was no implied license
any longer and there's no basis for expanding the
exhaustion doctrine to try to fill that void.
The exhaustion doctrine ought to be retained
as a very narrow first sale doctrine, because it doesn't
have any congressional support or approval at this
point. It is a logical way of proceeding. It protects
people against being surprised when they purchase a
particular product. But to go beyond that and to say
that simply because that sale, that particular product
is, quote, an "essential feature" of a separate patent
and therefore you have now exhausted the rights to that
second patent seems to me a stretch that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there's a reason, I
guess, that would be so. Imagine that I want to buy
some bicycle pedals, so I go to the bicycle shop. These
are fabulous pedals. The inventor has licensed somebody
to make them, and he sold them to the shop, make and
sell them. He sold them to the shop. I go buy the
pedals. I put it in my bicycle. I start pedaling down
the road.
Now, we don't want 19 patent inspectors
chasing me or all of the other companies and there are
many doctrines in the law designed to stop that. One is
the equitable servitudes on chattel. Another is the
exhaustion of a patent. And now you talk about implied
license.
I would say, why does it make that much
difference? What we're talking about here is whether
after those pedals are sold to me under an agreement
that the patent -- you know, you have a right to sell
them to me -- why can't I look at this as saying that
patent is exhausted, the patent on the pedals and the
patent for those bicycles insofar as that patent for the
bicycles says I have a patent on inserting the pedal
into a bicycle.
Call it exhaustion, call it implied license.
Who cares?
MR. PHILLIPS: I don't have any problem with
your hypothetical because it's not this case. Your
hypothetical deals with the situation of what would have
happened if you had bought the chip. Would we be in a
position to say, even though you bought the chip, we
nevertheless want to retain some right to come out -- to
come after you claiming we still have a patent in that
chip? And the answer is no. We exhausted -- that was
exhausted by the sale of the chip.
The question is if you buy a pedal, can you
then take that pedal that was designed for a bicycle,
put it into a Stair Master --
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah, but I thought --
MR. PHILLIPS: -- patent in the Stair
Master --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Of course, I think
the answer to that is no, probably no, but, but, but,
but. Now you can clarify this because I may be off on a
wrong track. I thought we're talking about using the
sold item in those mechanisms which account for
virtually almost the only logical use of the sold item.
Thus, if you took the bicycle blanks -- not the bicycle
blanks; they are eyeglass blanks. I'm mixed up between
bicycles and eyeglasses, there we are.
But if you took the eyeglass blanks and you
use them for the purpose of growing plants instead of
inserting them into eyeglasses, I guess we'd have had a
different case.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And I take it here they are
using those chips in those mechanisms that the chips are
almost exclusively designed for and there isn't much
else to use them for. Am I right or wrong?
MR. PHILLIPS: That is true. But the -- but
the point here is that that's not the relevant
distinction. It's not whether or not this is in some
sense an essential use. What this Court said in Univis
is that this would be a very -- that would have been a
very different case if there had been a separate patent
on the grinding and finishing of those lenses. And that
is precisely our case. There is a separate patent when
you take those components and you then put them into our
separate system.
And from my perspective, Your Honor, the
better way to analyze this is not as a question of
exhaustion. Let's keep the exhaustion doctrine where it
fits. It's a first sale component. You buy it, you
exhaust. Let's use the implied licensing as the
mechanism for dealing with related patents.
But the beauty of that in this case,
obviously, is that -- is that the implied license in
this case the courts below have flatly said doesn't
exist. And it goes to the point that you made, Justice
Breyer, as well when you said, you know, I buy this and
I sort of assume that I'm going to be able to use it in
a particular way. These -- this is a $10 billion
company that at the time they bought these components,
these chips, received explicit and specific notice that
the one thing they could not do was use these chips to
build new systems and then sell those systems,
obviously, beyond -- you know, under a completely
separate patent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Phillips.
MR. PHILLIPS: So it's not as though they
didn't know what they were getting when they bought it.
They bought cheap chips and turned them into $2,000
laptops because they didn't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Phillips?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What in the world
does clause 3.8 of the license mean? It says,
"notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
agreement, the parties agree that nothing herein shall
in any way limit or alter the effect of patent
exhaustion that would otherwise apply when a party
hereto sells any of its licensed products."
In other words, the patent exhaustion
doctrine may not apply for all the reasons that we've
been talking about, but it applies in the way it would
apply if we just sold these licensed products. That
seems to me to give away everything you're talking
about.
MR. PHILLIPS: No. Because that -- that
depends on the scope of the patent exhaustion doctrine.
If the patent exhaustion doctrine is limited to the sale
of the specific product -- let's for instance assume for
a moment that what in fact happened was that Intel sold
the system, rather than the chips. Then that would --
that would exhaust the patent doctrine.
Now, you know, the question is -- and here
there is a disconnect in some respects between the
Mallinckrodt decision in the Federal Circuit and some of
this Court's previous decisions on to the extent to
which you can condition a sale, and I think in some ways
that language may have been given up what rights we
might have been able to assert under Mallinckrodt on a
somewhat broader basis. But I don't think it can be
read any further than that, and it certainly -- and the
key to this is it certainly doesn't in any way waive our
rights, you know, as an implied license matter, because
that's -- specifically what both the district court and
the court of appeals held is there is no implied license
in this particular context, and so therefore for them to
prevail they have to expand the patent exhaustion
doctrine or the first sale doctrine beyond the first
sale; and that I submit to you is something that's
simply not appropriate.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Am I correct in
understanding that you do not defend the Mallinckrodt
decision?
MR. PHILLIPS: I do not defend the
Mallinckrodt decision, Justice Stevens, and clearly I
don't believe I have to. All I need to do is have this
Court recognize that the central limiting feature of
Univis was the fact that it was all one patent and that
all you were doing was fulfilling the rights that had
been provided for you in that single patent, and that
that that's fundamentally -- and that the Court
recognized that if there were a separate patent involved
and you were trying to enforce those rights, that would
be a completely different matter.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand you also do
not challenge the proposition that the sale by the
licensee in this case should be treated as a first sale.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, the chip.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
MR. PHILLIPS: Absolutely. There's no
question about that. We have never challenged that, and
I think the point I made earlier is also valid. We
didn't challenge their use, their otherwise infringement
of our system until we gave them notice; and at that
point we said there is no implied license, because I do
think, Mr. Chief Justice, it's a fair point, and it's
the same point Justice Breyer made, which is, look, if
you buy something and you think this is your normal
assumption that you're going to use it in a particular
way, that ought to be protected. I think that's
ordinary kind of contract expectation rules. But the
point here is that the language of this notice could not
have been plainer to anyone --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, now if it should
be protected -- and here I'm not sure I'm understanding
it, so correct me. Let's suppose we have this contract.
So everything is identical except we've got my bicycle
example in here because I'm more comfortable with that.
I know how to ride a bicycle and I don't know how to
work the chips. So what I do --
MR. PHILLIPS: Me too.
JUSTICE BREYER: But you see the analogy I'm
making.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: So what I do I go to the
shop and I buy this, this mechanism with the pedals on
it, and then I insert it in my bicycle. Now, actually I
need help in doing that, but I do it. Okay. Now I
start pedaling off, and now what is it for all these
things here that would stop that original inventor from
catching me and hauling me into court, and say, what
you've done, Breyer, is you've put my -- my mechanism
here in this bicycle and I happen to have a patent on
the system. And now you start talking to me about,
well, the patent was exhausted on the bicycle --
MR. PHILLIPS: Pedal.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- pedals, but not on the
system.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And you agree that
shouldn't happen.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: But if I follow you and I
write an opinion just for you, what stops it from
happening?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, in that -- in that
particular context, in the absence of relatively clear
notice, I think it would be quite reasonable to
potentially find that there was an implied license to
use it under those circumstances.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What --
JUSTICE BREYER: Then why isn't it in your
case?
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm sorry. No. I didn't
mean to interrupt you. It's your --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why doesn't it mean that?
Why isn't it in your case equally?
MR. PHILLIPS: Because the courts below
specifically analyzed whether there was -- -
JUSTICE BREYER: You mean that they just got
it all wrong? You mean it should be that they got it
wrong?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, no. They got it right
because there was very specific and explicit notice
provided to the purchaser at the time of the purchase
that, while this clearly gives you the right to use this
particular product, what it doesn't give you the right
--
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, so if I go in the
bicycle shop, I go in the bicycle shop and I buy the
pedals and then they give me, you know, one of these
pieces of paper that has all of the 42,000 words on it
and there in these 42,000 words it says, and now you are
put on notice that once you put it in your bicycle and
you pedal away, they're going to get you and you're
going to be hauled into Patent Court, then -- then
that's okay?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, Justice Breyer, we can
quarrel about sort of the nature of the notice and what
notice is adequate to do that, but the basic point here,
which I think is indisputable, is that, one, the notice
here is quite clear. It's one page. It's very
specific. These are very sophisticated parties and they
understood that they were not obtaining an implied
license by purchasing the chips rather than going out
and purchasing the systems.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. But assuming a
simple notice, the answer to his bicycle hypo is yes,
they can chase me down the road.
MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, to be sure. If I have
separate patent on the bicycle, I'm entitled to stop
people from using that particular bicycle. Now,
generally speaking, to be sure, you don't go after the
consumers because most people who are in the business of
manufacturing don't develop a really good following by
suing their ultimate consumers. So what you do is you
find the people who are in the middle, the middle spot,
who are actually doing the manufacturing and who are in
fact violating the patent, and that's who you go after.
And in this context --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's other --
MR. PHILLIPS: Precisely -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is the reason that there's
no implied license here, one, because you got the
notice, or two, because the component has uses in other
kinds of methods than the patented method?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think the better answer is
one, because they had clear notice.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You think the notice on
that to defeat the implied --
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. I think there is an
argument as to whether there might be non-infringing
uses. We disagree about that. But I think the better
argument is one.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The court below did not
rely on the fact that there might be non-infringing
uses, did it?
MR. PHILLIPS: No. The court below did not
rely on that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It relied on the notice.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, right. Well, I mean,
the court of appeals had a much -- it was a much easier
case, frankly --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It seems to be kind of an
unusual answer to the implied license argument, because
normally it doesn't depend on what the patentee decides
to say somewhere down - down the line. That's kind of
an unusual reason for not finding an implied license, I
think.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean I think the
district court just said, look, that -- you know,
ordinarily you would say, if you're buying something
with the understanding that you're going to -- that its
primary or maybe exclusive use will be in a particular
way, that that would be a reasonable implied -- you
could imply a license by those facts alone. Then the
question is whether or not that implication has in some
sense been clearly overridden by the conduct of the
parties under the circumstances.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's subsequent
conduct. If the implied license occurred, it didn't
occur at the time of the sale; and it couldn't be -- it
couldn't be negated at the time of the sale. If it
occurred, it occurred at the time of the license, right,
from the patentee of the patent at stake.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And once he received
-- and once the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And there was no such
notice there. There was no such statement there that
this does not -- you don't have the right to sell this
for its normal uses?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, but every -- every sale
after --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah, but the horse is out
of the barn.
MR. PHILLIPS: No, no, but that just means
that the patent --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- I mean if both
parties -- if both parties agree to that notice, I guess
that would be something else. Did both parties agree to
that notice?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, you mean both Intel and
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, yes. Both Intel and --
and Quanta clearly agreed -- I mean, both Intel and and
LG clearly agreed to that, if that's what you're asking
about. But the -- but the point here is that the notice
was prior to the sale.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but that -- that
doesn't matter to me. What matters to me is whether it
was prior to the license. If there was an implied
license here, it occurred at the time that the --
MR. PHILLIPS: Of the sale.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. No.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, when else -- an implied
license clearly can't extend to the ultimate purchaser
until the ultimate purchaser gives something.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You give the licensee --
you implicitly give the licensee the right to permit the
people to whom he sells the product to use the license.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's given to the
licensee surely.
MR. PHILLIPS: But we clearly didn't do
that. That -- I mean that -- the two court rulings
clearly resolved that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Unless it's implicit,
unless it's implicit when you sell a -- a bicycle pedal
that can only be used in bicycles.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. But if I say at the
time, but you cannot use it in a bicycle because it has
a separate patent, and therefore" --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did you say that?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, that's exactly what the
notice says.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's what the
notice says.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the notice. That's
later. That's downstream. That's after the license.
That's at the time of the sale.
MR. PHILLIPS: But that goes to clear -- I
mean, but that goes to the clear understanding -- I mean
the question is -- if the question is did Intel have the
right to sell the system as a system, the answer is yes.
It was licensed to do that. But it didn't sell the
system as a system. It sold the components of the
system. And then the question is, does it have as a
consequence of that some kind of an implied license to
do this? And the courts below both specifically held
no.
And I think the other thing about this,
Justice Scalia, is that this was not an issue in this
case. Both courts below held that that's not the
question presented. In order for the Petitioner in this
case to prevail, they have to demonstrate that this is
an exhaustion concept.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, because they're saying
--
MR. PHILLIPS: That's the question presented
in the petition.
JUSTICE SOUTER: They're saying the reason
they have done so is that the following distinction is
significant. There's a distinction between a license
that says you can't sell this unless certain conditions
are satisfied and, on the other hand, a license that
says you can sell this, but if you sell it to a buyer
who is described by conditions A and B, you've got to
tell the buyer that we're going to make a claim against
A and B. And the ones -- in the first example, there is
a limit to the right to sell. In the second example,
there is no limit on the right to sell, but there's a
warning about what we're going to do if you do sell
under certain conditions. And I think they're saying
that unless you have a contract of the former sort which
limits your right to sell, then when you do sell,
exhaustion applies and whatever you may do against the
ultimate buyer is -- is a contract problem or what-not,
but it's not -- it's not a matter of patent.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, and the problem --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Number one, do you think I
am being correct in characterizing, describing the
distinction they make?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think so.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And B, if I am, why isn't
that distinction an answer to your argument?
MR. PHILLIPS: Because, because it ignores
the fact that there are separate patents involved in
this case. There is no question that -- there is an
issue. I mean I don't think there's a question that --
you know, as to how far you can go down the road in
trying to condition a particular sale. I thought this
Court may have resolved this already. Mallinckrodt
leaves that issue open, but that's not -- that's not the
question.
The issue here is if I sell to you, Justice
Souter, a particular chip, whether I condition it or
not, I think that's -- to me that's unenforceable. But
the question is, can you then take that chip and use it
to violate a separate patent? And the reason you know
that it's not exhaustion --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No. I understand where
you're going. So then what you're saying, I guess, is
that the real issue does not involve this distinction
between a --
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- a limited right and a
right --
MR. PHILLIPS: Exactly.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- to go after people
later.
MR. PHILLIPS: That's not the issue in this
case.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What it -- what it involves
is the statement that they make that if you license the
manufacture, use, and sale of a particular component and
that particular component has only one reasonable use --
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- then you have
necessarily licensed them to sell with that ultimate use
in mind, and when you do -- when you license them to
sell, the patent-exhaustion doctrine attaches to any
patent right that you may have, whether you call it
system --
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- or whether you call it
component.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And you are saying that
argument is no good because that, in fact, is an implied
license argument, and there were findings that there was
no implied license.
MR. PHILLIPS: That's --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So I understand your
position.
MR. PHILLIPS: That is correct, Justice
Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. PHILLIPS: And let me further --
JUSTICE BREYER: Then explain -- now this
you might know because it's just following up on what
Justice Souter said better than I did. I think from
these briefs I've gotten the impression that at least
some people think that where you invent a component,
say, like the bicycle pedals, and it really has only one
use, which is to go into a bicycle, it's the easiest
thing in the world to get a patent not just on that
component but to also get a patent on the system, which
is called handlebars, body, and pedals.
And since that's just a drafting question,
all that we would do by finding in your favor is to
destroy the exhaustion doctrine, because all that would
happen, if it hasn't happened already, is these
brilliant patent lawyers, and they don't even -- they
can be great patent lawyers, not just fine lawyers, and
just draft it the way I said and that's the end of the
exhaustion doctrine. And that's why it is preferable to
say it is exhausted. What is exhausted? One, the
patent on this component and, two, the patent on any
system involving this component where that system is the
only reasonable use of the component, rather than using
the terminology "implied license."
Now, I think that's an argument that's being
made in some of these briefs, and if so I'd like to you
reply.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think that clearly
understates the role of the PTO in granting a separate
patent. I mean, this is not -- these are not things you
pick up at the corner drugstore. You have to justify
them. And if you look at Section 282, "a patent shall
be presumed valid," each claim shall be presumed valid
independently of the validity of other claims. And
there's an independence that's embedded in this entire
scheme. If it's true that the PTO has in fact granted
patent rights on something that's fundamentally not
different from the other -- from some other patent, the
solution to that is a validity challenge. And candidly,
I think that's exactly what all of those arguments are
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then --
MR. PHILLIPS: -- is patent validity
challenges.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That argument didn't
prevail last year in the KSR case, right? I mean, we're
-- we've had experience with the Patent Office where it
tends to grant patents a lot more liberally than we
would enforce under the patent law.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, but all -- I'm not --
I'm not particularly criticizing the PTO. What I'm
saying is that the statutory scheme presumes that there
is a separateness when a patent is issued and, therefore
-- and which is why -- again, the first -- there's no
reason to go to an expansion of the first-sale doctrine
in order to deal with the kinds of problems you have
here because in general -- in general you can deal with
it as a matter of implied license, but that issue has
been resolved adverse to the other side in this case,
and there's no reason to sort of fill in that void.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Phillips, when you say
that was resolved adversely, you say there was a finding
of no implied license.
MR. PHILLIPS: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was that a finding of no
implied license from LGE to Intel or no implied license
from Intel to the buyers?
MR. PHILLIPS: From Intel to the buyers.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Phillips --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that the crucial -- is
that the crucial step?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. That's -- that's the
critical component of this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If that --
MR. PHILLIPS: The buyer would have to
assert exhaustion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If that was an implied
license from LGE to Intel, then Intel would have
authority to sell -- to sell these things for their --
for their use.
MR. PHILLIPS: To be sure, Intel has the
authority to sell these things, and it has the authority
to sell -- it depends on what the things are. It has
the authority to sell the chips. It has the authority
to sell the systems, but what it doesn't have the
authority to do is to allow somebody downstream to take
the chips and put them into the separately patented
systems, and the -- and the people downstream know that
they don't have that entitlement.
Justice Souter, to me the patent-exhaustion
doctrine is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think the exhaustion, if
Intel got -- if Intel got -- I'm sorry. Yes, if Intel
got an implied license to the system from LGE when it
sold those products, it seems to me the exhaustion
doctrine would take hold and would -- would apply to
that implied license just as it applied to the -- to the
license of the chips.
MR. PHILLIPS: I think the answer to that is
it shouldn't, that the exhaustion doctrine should be
retained as a first-sale doctrine alone. That's the way
it's always been understood for 150 years. And to
expand it this way is to undermine the rights of -- in
the separate patents.
And now I'll try to make the point I wanted
to make to Justice Souter. Read the reply brief: A
sale authorized by one patentee does not exhaust patents
held by a different patentee. So we wouldn't even be in
this case if it turned out that we didn't just -- we
didn't happen to have all of these rights in the first
place. I mean, if they bought the chips and if Wang had
held on to some portion of the system patent in this
case, there is no question that Wang would have the full
opportunity -- that sale didn't exhaust their rights in
that patent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the way you
achieve that result is to condition the sale. What
you're trying to do is expand what you get under a
condition to what you get under a notice. And the
reason that troubles me is because if you had imposed a
condition on the sale, Intel wouldn't have paid you as
much for it. But you say, all right, we'll take the
money because -- additional money because there's no
condition, but we want to achieve the same result
because of the notice.
MR. PHILLIPS: I mean there can't -- there's
no serious basis for doubting what Intel knew precisely
what it was getting in this. It was getting peace on
both sides of the aisle in terms of litigation, and it
knew that there were separate patents here and that when
it sold the chips it would certainly be entitled to
assume that there would be exhaustion. That's the
provision you read. But when it sells the chips, it
didn't know and it specifically gave notice that it
recognized that that doesn't remotely say what the right
answer is with respect to the systems and with respect
to the methods. And that to me, Mr. Chief Justice, is
the fundamental distinction.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they're happy
with that because the notice says you can't -- you can
only use this with Intel products. So they're happy
with that solution as well.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, that's part of the
reason why it was negotiated in that way. But I mean
that is -- so far as I know, there is no particular
issue by reference to that particular limitation.
The reality is if we entered into the same
agreement with AMD, which is one of the other
chipmakers, I am sure they would ask for the same
restriction on it: That you could only do it with AMD
products, as well. I mean that doesn't have anything to
do with the nature of the underlying problem that we are
confronting in this particular context.
It seems to me the fundamental issue here is
they have a limited right when they purchase that
product. They didn't get the right to make other
products. They didn't get the right to breach or
infringe a completely separate patent. And that is the
basis on which the judgment of the Court of Appeals,
which is all that is before the Court, should be
affirmed.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Before you sit down, to
what extent do you think the Court of Appeals has
already adopted your theory of the case?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean they recognized
specifically that these are completely separate. That
the claims that are at issue here are different from the
amounts that were -- from the products that were, in
fact, purchased. So the elements, the constituent
elements, they have clearly embraced. The conclusion,
they have clearly not embraced.
JUSTICE STEVENS: They did not get your
theory of the case out of my reading of their opinion.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, my --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't the difference
between "conditional sale" and "limited sale" -- you are
saying they used the word "conditional." You are saying
it was a "limited sale" that only -- a "limited
license." It only licensed Patents A and B and not
Patents C and D.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, what I was actually
saying is that if you read the language in 4a and 5a
where it says: The patents asserted by LGE do not cover
the products licensed to, or sold by, Intel. They have
to be combined with additional components. And then in
5a they say: Notably, the sale involved a component of
the inserted, patented invention, not the entire
patented system.
So they recognize, to my mind, what are the
predicate factual bases from which I say the "exhaustion
doctrine" shouldn't have been -- shouldn't have been
triggered. But, to be sure, they -- they -- it was a
much easier task for them because they -- as far as they
are concerned, all kinds of conditions are permissible.
And we don't need that in order to win this case. I'm
not asking the Court to embrace that particular
approach.
If there are no other questions, I would ask
you to affirm the decision.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Phillips. Ms. Mahoney, you have four minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN E. MAHONEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MS. MAHONEY: I'd like to start by
emphasizing what counsel did not say. He never said
that Intel lacked the authority under the system and
method patents to sell these components. He never said
that. In fact, he said that Intel was released. Why
were they released? This would have been contributory
infringement, otherwise.
The reason they were released was because
they had the authority under this license to sell these
components under the system patent. And that's what the
Federal Circuit acknowledged, and that's what the
district court recognized, and it's never been in
dispute.
Their position is simply that, despite that,
despite express authority to sell these under that
patent -- not just under some other patent, under the
patents at issue here -- that they can enforce
conditions on post-sale use. And that's what this Court
has never allowed.
Univis is on all fours. They say, well,
that just involved a single patent. Well, as far as
this case is concerned, it just involves a single
patent, too. The whole issue here is whether or not
Quanta's taking of the components and combining them
with some generic things like wires and memory
necessarily infringed under LGE's allegations.
And the district court found that they
would, and that's not in dispute. And what that means
is that, just as in Univis where you had -- the court
finds there were really two products there. It finds
there were two different commodities, the lens blank and
the finished lens.
It says under Miller, the Miller/Tydings
Act, these are two different commodities, and the patent
was only on the finished lens. But, in order to make
that finished lens, you had to -- you had to make a lens
blank that would embody many of the limitations of the
claim. That's exactly what the district court found
happened here.
For this, when Intel manufactured these
chips, the microprocessors and the chipsets, it
manufactured them in a way that embodied many of the
limitations of the system and method patents that are at
issue here. So, as in the language of Univis, there
they said, well, we are dealing with a product that is
being manufactured in multiple stages.
And during that first stage, while it's true
it wasn't -- it didn't directly infringe because the
lens blank wasn't the patented product, they,
nevertheless, practiced the patent in part. Why?
Because they -- they -- some of the -- while
manufacturing it, they have met some of the limitations
of the claim.
And they said when that lens blank was sold,
that it exhausted the rights of the patent owner to
enforce any conditions, any type of conditions on use or
resale after that sale. And it didn't have to rely on
implied license because of the exhaustion doctrine.
Once there is an authorized sale of a product that is
protected by the patent that covered that final finished
product, exhaustion is triggered.
That's exactly what we have here. And they
said, oh, but you could disclaim that with an agreement.
Well, in Univis there was an agreement. The
purchaser of that lens blank specifically agreed by
contract that it would only use it in certain ways and
only charge certain prices. So they expressly
disclaimed, you know, the idea that they were -- that
they couldn't use it in those ways. And, nevertheless,
this Court found exhaustion.
When the district court found no "implied
license," all the court was saying was, well, under the
Federal Circuit precedent "implied license" is an
"equitable doctrine."
I see my time is finished. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms.
Mahoney. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:16 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
58:12 agrees 23:20 33:4,7,9 50:25 10:18 11:21,23 better 31:24
Ah 30:17 55:1 50:8,11,11,13 beyond 28:25
16:13 aisle 52:8 15:3 34:11 55:17,23 bicycle 21:3,5
28:8,17 AL 1:4 approval 28:22 authorize 10:23 29:7,7,11 30:2
allegations 10:5 area 15:25 18:10 12:18 30:15 31:1,1
52:3 allow 50:15 12:5,14 16:24 7:8,10,13,16 38:23 42:20,23
56:2 39:18,20 40:6 15:8 17:6,19 bicycles 29:25
55:19 AMD 53:2,4 48:4,24 55:7 20:17,25,25 42:21
17:1 14:15 48:19 22:19 25:22,23 26:4
analyze 31:24 16:10,15,18 authorizing bit 19:15
answer 9:13 22:19 23:3,4,4 available 19:13 57:7,12,23
22:14 24:10 articles 4:1,4 avoid 10:17 31:4
54:14 39:13 40:6 14:11 A.B 11:1 5:4,11
26:7,13 appendix 10:8 17:10 28:4 basis 28:18 34:1 24:10 29:5
36:21 11:20 35:15 52:6 53:13 30:17,20 31:9
application attaches 21:20 Bauer 17:14 32:8 35:13,20
applied 5:12 attaching 10:9 becoming 15:24 36:21,24 37:8
51:10 10:25 15:14,15 chip 30:8,9,12 42:16,18 48:7 concerned 54:23
32:1,8 century 19:2 32:13,20 33:17 15:3,9 51:21,23,25
36:7 certain 5:20 36:1 38:16 combination 52:3
18:23 23:20 50:13,16 51:2 4:11 conditional 54:5
10:25 57:25 56:24 combining 56:7 conditioning 5:6
24:1,4 certainly 8:22 chipsets 27:13 come 25:9 30:10 conditions 44:6
12:14 14:11 27:19 56:24 30:11 44:9,15 54:23
21:9 34:2,3 Circuit 3:18 comfortable 56:1 57:14,14
chain 24:5,8 11:20 23:1 commodities 40:22
58:6 companies confronting
chances 8:13 7:25 16:10,17 18:1,5,21
26:24 chase 38:20 cited 13:8 11:10,13 12:9 7:5 26:3
chattel 21:13 48:12 56:21 12:19,19 32:1 53:23
9:13,23 29:16 57:11 39:11 46:7,8 constituted 13:7
11:18 cheap 32:20 claiming 30:11 46:18 47:10,14 consumers
15:4,17 check 21:5 claims 3:14 10:7 47:25 48:1,2 38:25 39:2
20:15,19 Chief 3:3,9 5:24 48:13 53:21 50:2 54:15 context 18:9
27:5 6:14,24 8:10 clarify 30:22 components 34:7 37:3 39:6
30:6 9:3,16 16:21 clause 32:25 3:19 4:14 10:1 53:7
17:3 19:11,23 clear 8:20,22 10:9 11:21 contract 6:1
35:3 20:8,13 22:4 9:14,15,17,18 12:13 31:21 7:15 8:12,18
40:4 22:21 23:6,16 9:19 19:1 32:11 43:13 8:20,23 9:8
45:5 23:18 24:3,12 25:21 26:2,3 54:14 55:12,18 11:5,19 19:12
48:25 26:21 27:1,18 28:5,17 37:3 56:7 19:15 21:7,15
50:2 32:17,22,24 38:13 39:14 computer 1:3 22:2,16 24:10
53:18 35:12 43:3 43:8,9 3:4 27:22 24:13 25:1
56:5 48:21,24 49:23 clearly 34:16 computers 26:17,19 35:17
51:20 52:16,18 37:22 40:19 10:13 27:20 35:22 44:16,19
34:5,6,18,22 defeat 39:16 dispute 3:18 6:8 E 1:16 2:1,3,11
25:6 39:21,24 40:3 define 13:3 18:8 56:11 earlier 22:10
45:9 53:13,14 16:17 20:25 18:22 easier 8:14
24:6 55:20 56:1,10 delimits 17:9 14:5 25:22 54:22
33:1 56:12,21 58:3 demarcate 11:3 31:15 44:4,5 easiest 47:12
10:16 courts 5:2 32:6 43:22 52:17 effect 18:25 19:2
13:20 37:14 43:16,20 Department district 3:13 33:3
15:2,6,9 Court's 3:11 1:19 9:13,19,22,25 effectively 13:16
7:16 8:22 9:7 depend 40:7 10:4 28:9 34:5 Electronics 1:7
6:10 7:7 15:14 17:13 19:15 33:13 56:10,21 58:4 elements 53:23
12:2 18:14 19:1 50:12 doctrine 4:8 9:5 53:24
14:19 33:22 deprives 14:15 9:14 11:2 17:8 embedded 48:14
55:14 cover 54:12 Deputy 1:18 17:22 18:1,8 embodied 15:1
11:4 criteria 3:12,22 describing 19:25 21:12,16 embody 56:20
26:19 12:24 44:23 22:7 23:2 embrace 54:25
18:2,6,8 criticizing 49:5 30:15 31:11 28:21 31:25 emphasizing
17:12 curiae 1:20 17:1 destroy 47:18 47:18,23 49:9 17:22
25:2,3 develop 39:1 50:20,25 51:4 encumbered
34:12 D Dick 11:1 51:5 54:20 8:15
44:23 D 3:1 54:9 difference 5:5 57:16 58:7 ends 26:19
49:18 deal 5:25 28:1,2 22:16 29:20 doctrines 21:25 enforce 17:23
20:18 30:7 51:12 53:21 downstream 6:4 21:17
decide 9:7 56:14,17 15:23 25:5 enter 13:12
5:4 decides 40:7 25:9 draft 21:24 53:1
decision 9:12 directly 4:1 57:6 47:22 enters 13:13
13:6 33:21 34:14,16 disagree 39:19 drafted 8:18 entire 48:14
15:19 55:3 discarded 17:11 drafting 47:16 54:16
decisions 17:13 disclaim 57:21 drugstore 48:10 entirety 27:5
18:12 33:22 disclaimed 58:1 D.C 1:9,16,19 entitled 38:22
deemed 19:18 disconnect 1:22 52:10
27:2 deeply 6:12 33:20 entitlement
31:16 default 17:10 dismissed 3:14 E 50:18
52:11 54:19 56:4 fours 56:3 goes 22:18 27:16
58:7 exhausts 19:20 feature 29:2 40:4 going 5:7,10,15
expand 34:8 Federal 3:18 fulfilling 34:20 9:7 12:22 14:9
expanding 9:24 10:20 14:16 51:17 35:15 38:6,7
expansion 49:9 23:1 33:21 10:3 44:10,14 45:19
35:17 fill 28:19 49:14 52:17 53:8 46:21
10:25 15:4 explicitly 19:6,6 finds 56:13,13 G 48:15
24:3 43:1 20:20 21:1 fine 9:3 23:21 G 1:18,22 2:5,8 granting 13:7
48:19 exposed 6:13 47:21 3:1 16:24 48:8
57:20 express 17:17 finish 26:14 26:24 great 9:6 47:21
44:11,12 expressly 11:7 56:15,18,19 5:8 49:11,11 growing 31:5
31:11 extent 33:22 12:24 27:8,9 56:8
51:11,18 eyeglass 31:2,4 34:9,9 35:3 52:7,7 hand 44:7
14:10 31:6 51:14 57:5 6:23 7:18 47:15
30:12 first-sale 18:25 17:25 18:16 happen 4:16
36:16 F 49:9 51:5 give 5:13,17 12:23 36:14,22
57:13 fabulous 29:8 fits 32:1 6:23 15:5 47:19 51:14
4:8 9:1 15:8 21:9 focused 14:11 38:2 42:10,11 30:8 33:16
13:8 16:2 25:18 28:7 follow 10:12 given 4:13 8:2 47:19 56:22
18:20 33:16 34:19 17:20 36:24 20:3 24:7 happening 37:1
22:25 39:5,22 45:4 following 39:1 33:24 42:14 happens 25:3
27:16 46:21 48:15 44:4 47:7 gives 37:22 42:9 happy 52:18,20
53:23 55:13 footnote 12:1 giving 12:20 hauled 38:7
30:3 facts 3:15 40:17 former 44:16 25:19 hauling 36:12
33:4 factual 54:19 forth 16:1 go 14:22 27:3 hear 3:3
Failure 10:12 found 3:14 5:2 28:8,25 29:7 held 17:5,16
43:23 fair 35:12 7:14 9:25 18:9 29:10 36:6 34:6 43:16,20
45:17 falls 3:23 56:10,21 58:3 37:25 38:1,24 51:12,16
46:21,23 48:3 insert 36:8 issued 49:7 48:24 49:15,19
9:11 57:16 58:4,6 31:6 items 20:21 51:10,20 52:16
18:4 imply 40:17 insofar 29:25 i.e 15:24 25:1 52:18 53:16
22:17 important 6:8 inspectors 29:13 54:1,4 55:4
31:23 19:5 21:23 instance 33:15 J 58:9
22:5 28:11 instances 20:5,6 January 1:10 justify 48:10
17:3 imposes 21:20 9:2 10:9,16 3:9 4:6,17,23 KENNEDY
18:3,18 impression 47:9 11:21 12:2 5:24 6:14,23 15:21 16:11
20:1,11 included 10:2 14:12 15:5 7:18 8:10 9:3 key 25:18,21
21:8,14 including 11:22 20:6,10,21 9:16 11:6,12 26:4 27:4,15
22:3,17 inconsistent 22:11 25:11,14 12:4,8 13:4,18 34:3
23:12,17 11:17 25:24 26:6 13:22 14:2 kind 24:5 35:17
24:11,14 independence 33:16 41:18,21 15:21 16:11,21 40:5,8 43:15
25:2,15 48:14 41:22 43:10 17:3,25 18:16 kinds 39:12
26:1,11 independently 49:20,21,22 19:11,16,23 49:10 54:23
48:13 50:7,7,10,22 20:8,13 21:2 knew 9:2 10:17
30:6,7 indisputable 55:11,13 56:23 23:6,16,18 14:12 27:7
Intel's 10:12 24:3,10,12,19 29:22 32:8,15
12:12 14:24 invention 5:18 27:1,3,18 29:5 38:2 40:12
infringed 3:17 36:11 34:12,16 35:1 58:1
infringement 34:23 45:4 36:24 37:7,8 KSR 48:25
11:25 12:3,22 involves 46:5 38:9,18 39:7,9 L
18:14 20:7,9 involving 48:1 40:5,21 41:4 language 8:23
29:17 26:12,18 35:9 12:10 22:19 42:19,25 43:3 laptops 32:21
32:2,5 55:15 28:2,3 43:19 43:5,19,24 law 4:2 17:23
21:7,15
22:9 40:17,22,25 longer 28:18 1:16 2:3,11 3:7 money 52:2,2
42:3,4,8,12 look 14:13,18 55:7 monopoly 5:23
49:3 43:6,15 44:5,7 29:23 35:13 mean 16:17 11:3 23:5
49:20,20 50:7 lot 6:8 8:16,17 27:20 32:25 15:15 17:13
54:8 55:17 lower 5:2 40:2,11 41:14
28:7 29:8 33:5 Mahoney 1:16 48:9,25 51:15 narrow 28:21
56:14,15 46:11 54:8,13 4:6,10,20 5:1 53:19 53:6
licensee 6:25 7:3 6:7,19 7:4,24 means 14:8 necessarily 10:1
7:22 20:2 8:21 9:11,18 41:12 56:11 10:11 24:20
35:22 24:16 25:5 13:20,25 14:7 mechanisms 18:10
licensee's 13:23 58:10 56:8 negated 40:24
49:20 28:3 32:2 making 36:4 met 10:6 57:10 negotiated
54:12 light 15:21 Mallinckrodt method 3:20,25 52:23
limit 7:22 22:1 34:16 45:9 11:24 14:22 12:23 15:18
44:12,13 manufacture 55:12 57:1 55:20 56:2
12:2 limitations 10:7 46:7 39:12 52:16 10:22 30:10
24:8 56:20 57:1,10 manufactured microprocess... 57:8 58:2
7:1,2,7,11 53:9 54:5,7,7 56:25 57:4 Miller 56:16 12:13
8:15 13:7 limiting 34:18 manufacturer Miller/Tydings non-infringing
limits 18:6,7 8:16 13:14,19 56:16 39:18,22
19:18 44:17 manufacturing Millinger 15:17 non-Intel 4:24
20:4 line 7:15,21 11:3 39:1,4 57:10 mind 4:7 6:25 Nope 15:19
22:12,24 40:8 market 5:10 9:9 46:12 normal 35:14
24:7,20 litigate 8:19 Masonite 13:8 54:18 41:7
25:12,12 litigated 11:18 Master 30:16,19 minutes 55:5 normally 40:7
26:6 12:23 13:5 matter 1:12 8:2 mistake 12:5 Notably 54:15
29:18 litigation 52:8 21:18 34:4,25 misunderstan... notice 5:17
32:5,25 little 19:15 42:2 44:20 19:7 15:12 19:9
35:11 live 8:19 49:12 58:12 mixed 31:2 21:21 25:10,19
38:16 logical 28:23 matters 42:2 moment 33:16 28:15,16 32:12
40:6,9 30:25 MAUREEN Mondays 23:15 35:10,18 37:4
38:5,10 ordinarily 28:1 patent 3:16,24 patentowner 31:23
40:13 4:2,4 5:22 6:18 7:12 10:22 pertinently
ordinary 8:25 7:14 8:25 13:13 14:16 23:19
41:5,15 35:17 12:11,11,17,19 15:17 petition 10:8
43:2 original 36:11 12:20,21 14:21 patents 3:20,25 11:20 44:2
51:23 ought 28:20 14:22 15:1,19 4:15 5:13 10:3 Petitioner 43:21
35:16 15:24 17:7,10 11:9,10,13,15 Petitioners 1:5
33:1 outside 20:6 19:19 20:7,9 17:14 32:3 20:22 55:8
40:19 22:12,25 23:5 51:11 52:9 7:19 26:23,24
owner 4:4 5:18 27:13,22 28:7 patent-exhaus... 33:12 34:15
12:17 14:21 29:22,24,24,25 19:8,24 22:6 36:17,20,23
32:5,15 P 33:13,14,18 pays 21:6 40:2,11 41:2,8
42:4 20:20 22:6 38:22 39:5 36:17 38:6 42:22 43:1,8
57:21 paper 38:3 46:14 47:13,14 36:10 46:3,9,16,19
47:4 57:8 48:9,11,16,17 29:8,11,21,24 48:7,22 49:4
14:8 17:6 18:6,7 51:16,19 53:12 47:11,15 50:1,4,10 51:3
38:5 19:19 23:4 55:18,24,24 people 7:23 8:18 52:5,22 53:19
57:17 28:25 29:1 56:4,6,17 57:8 20:10 25:5,13 54:3,10 55:5
52:24,25 53:7 57:7 perfect 7:17 pieces 38:3
particularly 7:2,20,22 permissible plainer 35:19
26:24 33:2 38:14 25:4 40:7 41:1 permitted 20:6 please 3:10 17:4
49:10 41:16 patentee's 6:4 23:19 24:5,7 point 11:2 13:12
56:18 party 23:23 33:4 26:8 perspective 13:15 24:4
27:16 principal 16:12 48:15 49:5 38:13 reject 19:6
31:14 principle 17:9 purchase 28:24 quote 29:2rejected 28:10
35:8,11 17:17,21 24:18 37:21 53:9 related 32:3
principles 18:14 purchased R relatively 37:3
41:24 26:19 53:23 R 3:1 released 12:16
prior 41:25 42:3 purchaser 6:2 rationale 17:12 55:13,14,16
30:9 44:19,21 53:6 26:12,14,16 52:12 54:11 relied 40:1
55:22 problems 49:10 37:21 42:8,9 reading 54:2 rely 39:22,25
product 14:23 17:24 reaffirmed 16:19
12:2 22:11 23:20 purpose 5:7 reality 53:1 19:13 22:8
25:13 28:25 15:11 31:5 realize 28:12 23:10,11 24:25
products 4:25 put 9:7 21:2 reason 8:7 9:15 replication
52:6 15:6 25:11,14 30:16 31:21 29:5 39:9 40:9 reply 48:6 51:10
promise 23:23 Quanta 1:3 3:4 48:2 requirements
properly 3:13 Quanta's 56:7 REBUTTAL requiring 25:10
8:4,16 13:10 35:2 question 4:19 received 28:15 17:19,23 57:15
protected 35:16 7:19 9:4 10:15 32:12 41:2 reserve 16:19
protection 3:23 22:5,18 27:4 recognize 34:18 45:9 49:13,16
48:25 provided 34:21 35:7 40:18 5:5 9:13 14:5 respects 33:20
provides 4:3 44:1 45:5,6,11 53:19 55:20 1:23 2:9 19:3
5:24 6:14 8:10 54:5,5,7,15 13:14 15:5 side 8:12 20:14
23:22 19:11,23 20:8 sales 6:10 14:8 21:3 23:14,14 sides 52:8
53:4 20:13 22:4,21 satisfied 3:13,15 23:19,19,22,25 sign 26:14
17:17,23 24:3,12 26:21 13:2 44:7 26:7 29:10,22 27:24 44:5
52:3 48:21,24 49:23 23:1,12 25:8 44:6,8,8,12,13 12:4 19:9,12
30:10 royalty 14:16,22 49:6 54:6,6,11 50:13,14 55:12 34:21 56:4,5
51:5 rule 8:14 says 5:9,11 8:24 seller 10:23 24:1 situation 22:7
14:16 rulings 42:17 30:1 32:25 sells 6:2 14:23 7:6 15:19 17:6
20:4,16 runs 19:4 38:4 43:2,4 22:11 23:17 19:10 20:6,10
22:3 44:6,8 52:19 33:5 42:12 26:12 27:11
S 54:12 56:16 52:12 29:9,10,21
29:22 S 2:1 3:1 Scalia 40:21 send 21:5 30:24,25 33:9
31:8,12 sale 3:16 4:9,11 41:4,10,14,20 sense 7:17 14:12 33:16 43:13
36:5 4:21,21 5:20 42:1,6,10,14 14:17 31:16 50:24 52:10
37:19 5:21 6:16,20 42:19,25 43:5 40:19 54:13 57:12
39:17 6:21 7:8,10,13 43:19 49:15,19 sent 15:12 Solicitor 1:18
41:2 7:16 10:21 49:24 50:3,6 separate 27:13 solution 48:18
42:11,13 12:15,17,25 50:21 27:22 28:7 52:21
43:11 13:7,23 14:3 scheme 48:15 29:2 31:18,20 somebody 5:15
14:11 15:8 49:6 31:22 32:16 29:8 50:15
16:7,16 17:6 scope 17:9 18:8 34:23 38:22 somewhat 34:1
19:10,19,20 33:13 42:24 45:4,16 sophisticated
49:4 20:12,17,18,25 second 3:22 24:7 48:8 51:8 52:9 38:14
53:9 22:18,19,21,23 29:4 44:12 53:12,20 sorry 37:10 39:8
22:24,25 23:3 Section 14:20 separately 50:16 50:22
12:16 24:24 25:22,23 see 15:21 36:3 49:7 44:16 49:14
15:18 25:23 26:5,10 58:8 serious 52:6 sought 18:9
19:13 26:18 27:8,9 seed 21:10 servitudes 29:16 sound 20:13
29:3 27:12,17 28:21 seeds 15:25 servitude's sounds 21:6
34:4,20 29:1 30:13 seeking 15:7 21:13 Souter 11:6,12
48:16 32:1 33:14,23 sell 3:19 4:14 shelf 27:21 12:4,8 24:19
34:9,10 35:2,3 5:6,9,14,15,15 shoes 23:9 24:22 27:3
40:23,24 41:8 5:23 7:1 8:2,6 shop 29:7,9,10 37:7,10 38:18
45:7 43:7 45:8 46:7 11:4,21,24 show 10:6 45:1,13,18,23
47:3 stop 29:15 36:11 54:17 55:11,18 5:3 6:19,24 19:17 20:2
50:19 38:22 57:1 8:21,23 9:2,11 31:13 48:15
54:4 stops 36:25 systems 11:9,14 9:22 13:11,17 57:5
33:15 Straus 17:14 52:15 21:9 22:4,25 51:9
38:14 stretch 29:4 26:1 27:4 trying 34:24
34:5 subject 9:5 T 2:1,1 34:1 35:8,12 Tuesday 23:17
43:16 18:20 take 8:12 18:16 35:14,16 37:4 Tuesdays 23:15
53:20 submit 19:3,5 30:15 31:9,21 38:12 39:13,15 turn 6:8
34:10 45:15 50:15,25 39:17,19 40:10 turned 32:20
58:12 talk 29:17 44:15,22,25 turns 6:5
57:5 15:1 task 54:22 2:5 16:24 U
28:22 term 8:8 time 16:20 32:11 20:12,17 24:15
55:9 supposed 9:1 12:3 23:24 today 3:4 uncompleted
46:6 9:6 test 3:25 track 30:23 underlying 14:4
16:25 38:21,24 50:10 17:3 26:21 14:8 undermine 51:7
13:4,18 system 3:20,24 53:18 54:2 17:8 45:18 46:25
14:2 10:3 11:22,24 thing 4:7 15:16 treated 16:4 understanding
25:8,18 12:12,20,21 32:13 43:18 35:3 34:13 35:21
26:4 14:21 27:14 47:13 tried 15:16 40:14 43:9
35:1 31:22 33:17 things 6:8 8:14 triggered 3:12 understates
39:7,9,15 35:10 36:15,19 8:22 21:23 4:8 16:3 54:21 48:8
40:1,5 43:11,11,13,13 36:11 48:9 57:19 understood 9:23
54:1 43:14 46:15 50:8,11,12 triggering 7:15 22:5 24:9
50:23 51:16 think 4:10 5:1,2 true 5:24 19:16 undisputed 3:15
48:18,22 30:23 44:10,14 1
13:23 19:8 we've 19:2 33:7 109 18:6
violated 24:24 what-not 44:19 150 17:5 51:6
16:25 violating 23:24 white 15:21 19 29:13
13:3 virtually 30:25 win 20:18 54:24
void 28:19 49:14 wires 10:10 56:8 2
31:16 won 20:15 2008 1:10
56:3,12 W word 6:1,2,3 26 2:9
waive 34:3 54:6 271(c) 14:20
13:13 26:2 27:3 29:6 9:1 14:25 3
18:5,7 51:9 36:1
11:4 wants 7:21 25:4 world 25:3 4
15:10,23 warning 44:14 32:24 47:13 4a 54:11
Washington 1:9 worthless 15:24 42,000 38:3,4
20:9 1:16,19,22 wouldn't 7:8 8:1 46 10:12
25:13 wasn't 4:19 8:9 51:12,25
57:6,7 5
27:19 wrinkle 11:7
28:6,8 way 6:3,16 7:3 write 22:2 36:25 5 11:19
31:5,12 7:20,20 8:9 wrong 23:1 5a 20:20 54:11
32:2,9 10:6 11:18 30:23 31:12 54:15
35:9,15 12:23 13:5 37:17,18 55 2:12
40:15 14:13 17:15 wrote 9:4 6
45:15 18:9,20,24
23:20 X 67 10:8
48:2 24:6 28:8,23 x 1:2,8 7
52:20 31:24 32:10 7 12:1
57:14,24 33:3,8 34:3 Y
35:16 40:16 Yeah 41:10
39:11 56:25 51:6
41:7 ways 22:1 33:23
58:2 $
we're 16:2 19:15 0
1:6 3:4
