IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ABDUS-SHAHID M.S. ALI :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 06-9130
FEDERAL BUREAU OF :
PRISONS, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, October 29, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:08 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JEAN-CLAUDE ANDRE, ESQ., Los Angeles, Cal.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JEAN-CLAUDE ANDRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JEAN-CLAUDE ANDRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:08 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in case 069130 Ali versus Federal Bureau of
Prisons.
Mr. Andre.
MR. ANDRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the court:
The text of Section 26 (a)(c)Federal court
claims act establishes -- provision underlying purpose
confirm that Congress did not intend the provision to
broadly bar all claims arising out of all the tensions
of all property by all law enforcement officers. As in
any statutory construction case we need to of course
begin with the text, and with respect to the text in
this case, we believe that the statutory language is
simply no different than the statutory at issue at
Circuit City v. Adams. Circuit City v. Adams this court
applied a ejusdem generis to limit a sweepingly broad
residual phrase that is meaningfully indistinguishable
from the "any other law enforcement phrase" at issue
here. In particular, in Circuit City the court was
asked what kinds of employment contracts were exempted
from the mandates of the Federal Arbitration Act. The
particular provision at issue in that case 9 U.S.C.
Section 1 exempted from the act's coverage any and I
quote contracts of employment of sea men, railroad
employees or any other class of workers engaged in
foreign or interstate commerce. That residual phrase
read in isolation is broad and sweeping on its face it
certainly would appear to apply not only to
transportation workers, but also to retail store clerks
like the Respondent in Circuit City, none the less under
a ejusdem generis, this court limited that residual
phrase to just to transportation workers.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose there is a
difference between a sufficient laundry list in a
residual phrase and example in a residual phrase. In
Circuit City you have a couple of examples -- seamen,
railroad workers -- here it's just a customs or excise
worker. I regard customs and excise as kind of the same
thing. So why isn't it more like the cases where we've
said you have an example in a residual phrase; the
example is not limiting.
MR. ANDRE: Well, first of all, Your Honor,
if I could point out that if the Government had made the
argument that you have to have a list, and I think under
the Government's interpretation you had to have at least
three items, two specific and one general. In Norfolk
-- Norfolk and Western Railway, this Court says that
need not be the case. There the Court said that you
could have a singular general term preceded by a
singular specific term. So it's our position that --
that even if you were to read this statute as -- as
possessing only two items, that you could still apply
ejusdem generis, but we don't read the statute that way.
We believe that the statute actually contains a list of
three items, and that Congress to save itself a couple
words, decided to say "any officer of customs or excise,
or any other law enforcement officer," instead of saying
the more wordy version, "any officer of customs, any
officer of excise or any other law enforcement officer."
I don't think we can fault Congress for its pick in that
scenario.
To get back to the residual phrase, the "any
other law enforcement officer phrase" here, ripped from
its moorings, as we believe the Government is trying to
do, would certainly seem to apply to all law enforcement
officers, including Bureau of Prisons officials which by
statute are law enforcement officers. But Section
2680(c) contains a number of contextual cues that
Congress didn't have general law enforcement functions
in mind when it passed the provision. It had customs
and tax functions in mind. In particular, the detention
clause preserves sovereign immunity for the detention of
goods and merchandise by any officer of customs or
excise.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, not just goods
or merchandise. Goods, merchandise or other property.
And does other property include any type of property?
MR. ANDRE: We believe it does, and we
believe that when Congress added that language it was
simply Congress's sensible recognition that customs and
tax officers will detain or seize cash and real property
which wouldn't be covered or wouldn't be subsumed under
goods and merchandise.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So "goods and
merchandise or other property" are just examples, and
then a residual phrase that includes everything; but
"customs or excise or any other law enforcement
officer," that's subject to ejusdem generis - all in the
same sentence.
MR. ANDRE: Well, we actually don't think --
or I guess I cannot necessarily agree with the first
part of what you just said, Mr. Chief Justice. We don't
believe that -- that other property necessarily, or that
"goods and merchandise and other property," the goods
and merchandise are examples of "other property." We
think in that situation, goods and merchandise refer
specifically to goods and merchandise as -- as explained
historically in the United States Code, which are, you
know, more movable things other than cash, tangible
items other than cash, and "other property" then covers
cash and real property.
Excuse me. Getting back to the contextual
cues in this case, in addition to the four contained in
the detention clause itself, the assessment clause
contains four additional contextual cues. It preserves
sovereign immunity for the assessment of any tax or the
collection of any customs duty, and because we have this
great quantity of contextual cues in a very short
statutory provision, we believe that we would also
prevail under an application of the Noscitur a sociis
canon, that this Court most recently applied two terms
ago in Dolan v. Postal Service. In that case what was
at issue is whether the term "negligent transmission" in
Section 2680(b) of the Federal Tort Claims Act reached
all negligent transmissions, in particular a parcel left
on the foot of someone's front door that causes them a
fall injury, or instead, it was limited by its
antecedent contextual cues, namely -- I'm sorry --
namely, loss and miscarriage, which would tend to
indicate that Congress intended really only to preserve
sovereign immunity for instances in which delivery was
untimely or went to the wrong location. The Court again
sensibly looked past the superficially broad negligent
transmission language and instead said no, we have to
read it in context; and in context Congress did not
intend us to just pluck those two words out of the
dictionary and apply a dictionary meaning.
In fact, in that case, the Government
implored this Court to apply dictionary definitions to
negligence and transmission, and that's essentially what
the Government is trying to ask this Court to do here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, what do you do
about the later -- the later statute that makes an
exception to the exception?
MR. ANDRE: We don't believe that that
changes -- we don't believe that changes the meaning of
the detention cause at all beyond the small change that
Congress made.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean it clearly, the
exception to the exception says that -- that the
exception is applicable to any claim based on injury or
loss of goods or merchandise, if among other
requirements, the property was seized for the purpose of
forfeiture under any provision of Federal law providing
for the forfeiture of property.
Now that's more than customs and tax -- any
provision of Federal law.
MR. ANDRE: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you need that
exception to the exception if the exception doesn't
cover anything except customs and tax in the first
place?
MR. ANDRE: Well, we believe that the fact
that Congress decided to not only preserve the detention
clause, but also mimic its language in the exception to
the exception, means that Congress intended to kind of
bring forward the -- of course -- original meaning as of
1946 of that clause. But I think to get what you're
asking me, the Government's position, that because the
exception to the exception references any provision of
forfeiture -- the Government's suggestion that that
somehow broadens the scope of the statute is misplaced.
Customs and tax officers regularly apply
other forfeiture statutes, and in particular the one
they use a lot is 21 U.S.C. 881. That's the general
civil forfeiture statute. And so in many cases they
will bring a forfeiture action under either their
agency's specific forfeiture provision, or the general
21 U.S.C. 881. And so when Congress included that
language saying any provision of forfeiture, it was
simply Congress's sensible recognition that they don't
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: They didn't -- they didn't
need that if indeed it covered all seizures by -- by
customs and tax officers and nobody else. If that's all
it -- it covered, what -- you know, this doesn't achieve
anything. The purpose of under any provision of Federal
law. It seems to me that that envisions seizure under
laws other than tax and customs. Now you're saying
there is one, one such law that tax and customs officers
sometimes use?
MR. ANDRE: There may be more, I was giving
you an example, but the one that I gave you, 21 U.S.C.
881, is the one most frequently used. It is the general
forfeiture provision. It's kind of the backbone of all
forfeitures, and so in many cases officers bring
forfeiture actions not only either -- either under their
own agency forfeiture provision or the general.
Sometimes they bring them under both. But the point is
that's a meaty statute there, and I -- I assume that
Congress wanted to make clear that if a customs or tax
officer were to bring a forfeiture proceeding under that
meaty provision, and maybe some other ones that they
would use from time to time, that the exception to the
exception would still work here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What work does it do? What
work under your interpretation does that later provision
do, if property was seized for the purpose of forfeiture
under any provision of Federal law providing for the
forfeiture of property?
MR. ANDRE: Under our interpretation, if a
customs or tax officer or another law enforcement
officer acting in a custom or tax capacity detains
property and injures it -- and it doesn't matter under
which forfeiture law they detain the property --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. ANDRE: -- and the plaintiff is
ultimately successful, I'm sorry, I guess -- yes, the
plaintiff is ultimately successful in defeating the
Government's claim for forfeiture, then they can sue
under the FTCA for the damage to their property.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Andre, it may be that
things would fall into place easier if you would give us
an example or examples of instances in which any other
law enforcement officer would be engaged in detaining
property in -- in the course of enforcing customs or
excise laws. If we can understand that, then we are
going to have a better sense of how the exception might
work. Can you give me an example of the other law
enforcement officer engaged in customs excise?
MR. ANDRE: Sure. The best example that
comes to mind is pre-9/11 before the merger of the INS
and the Border Patrol -- or I'm sorry, the Customs
Bureau -- under the Department of Homeland Security.
When you drove across the border before 9/11 more often
than not you would see a gentleman or a woman in a green
jump suit. They were INS. But not only were they
asking you questions about your immigration status and
checking to see if you had ID; they were also asking
about what you were bringing in -- for example, oh, do
you have more than two bottles of liquor? Because
you're only allowed to bring in two. And if you said
yes, they would direct you over to secondary inspection,
and even there in secondary inspection certainly
sometimes there may have been officers in blue suits,
the customs enforcement officers. But more often than
not, they were still officers in green suits, INS
officers. And there they're taking this extra property
from you because they believe you are not supposed to
have it, and then sending you on your way.
There are many task forces in many other
instances in which officers can overlap or share
functions, postal inspectors working with the customs
enforcement agencies to keep --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did you say IRS officers,
because they would be covered? It's tax and customs.
MR. ANDRE: Right. We believe IRS officers
are expressly covered, but, for example, when the FBI is
conducting an investigation with the IRS into fraud and
other tax issues, then we believe that those FBI agents
would be covered.
So we don't believe it's hard at all to find
a number of examples of where other law enforcement
officers are assisting tax and customs officers,
standing in the shoes of tax and customs officers, or
just doing something sufficiently akin to what tax and
customs officers do. And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You gave an example in
your brief that didn't seem to fit. I mean you spoke of
a DEA agent who was searching for narcotics, and that
sounds to me like what DEA agents do. They were not
auxiliary to a customs officer.
MR. ANDRE: That's correct, Justice
Ginsburg. That's the Formula One case out of the Second
Circuit. And the reason why we relied on that case is
because the DEA agents were opening up a shipping
container that had not yet been opened since it came
from overseas.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they were doing it
for their primary business, which was to detect
narcotics.
MR. ANDRE: That's right. And we again
reference that case because we wanted to offer the Court
a broad construction or make sure the Court was
comfortable in knowing that we were comfortable with the
"other law enforcement officer" phrase being read
broadly to reach any -- you know, any loose tax or
customs function.
If the Court wants to construe that phrase
more narrowly, we still win this case, and we have no
problem if the Court wants to do that. But we think
that, given that the residual phrase of the detention
clause starts out with the word "any," the way to give
-- to give credence to Congress's use of that word is to
then construe the phrase as reaching conduct such as the
conduct in the Formula One case.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could we interpret the term
"law enforcement" -- "any other law enforcement officer"
to be limited to those law enforcement officers whose
duties generally include the detention of goods?
MR. ANDRE: Well, I don't think so, Justice
Alito, because we weren't really prepared to debate what
exactly "detention" means. In fact, we didn't petition
on that issue, and my client didn't press it below. But
we were just intuitively thinking -- I don't think the
word "detention" does much work for us here, at least in
--
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why doesn't it? It's
not clear to me. Maybe this is not within the question,
but why were your client's goods detained? "Detention"
seems to connote holding the goods against the wishes of
the owner, and that wasn't the situation here. He gave
those goods -- he gave them to the Bureau of Prisons
officer for the purpose of having them sent on to his
new prison.
MR. ANDRE: I agree. I should have been
more clear.
We don't believe that the word "detention"
necessarily sheds a lot of light on how you construe
what "other law enforcement officer" means, but
certainly, yeah, we believe that if the detention issue
were alive in this case, we have a very strong case,
because there's a very passive kind of bailment here, as
you referenced, where our -- my client was, you know,
told to leave his property with a receiving/discharge
clerk and go to a new institution, and the property was
going to follow him along. There was no seizure. There
was no investigation.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you don't think that
concept sheds light on what Congress had in mind when it
referred to any other Federal law enforcement officer?
MR. ANDRE: I -- I don't, but I don't want
to resist you too much either. You know, if the Court
would like us to reach that issue, we'd be happy to
brief if the Court wanted to issue an order akin to the
one it issued last term in U.S. v. Resendiz-Ponce.
And I think to get more directly to what
you're saying, whatever Congress intended as far as
other law enforcement officers, the fact that we have a
case here where, again, there is this very passive
bailment by a Bureau of Prisons receiving/discharge
clerk, I think exemplifies how the government's
construction of the statute is too broad. And I think
that might be what you were trying to tease out of me
there.
And to get back to the government's
construction, we believe that their construction would
render a number of words in this statute superfluous,
which is sort of our third textual reason for reading
the statute our way. The detention clause contains a
total of 22 words. Under the government's construction
it would simply read: "Any detention of any property by
any law enforcement officer." Fourteen words would be
excised right out of the statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But, I mean that's
always true when you have an example and a more general
phrase. And yet our cases indicate that we often read
the language that way.
In other words, it's giving you, perhaps,
the most common example in which you're going to have a
detention of goods, but it's not limiting it to those
officers.
MR. ANDRE: Well, there certainly are some
cases that would appear to go both ways, although I
think if you take a look at the cases cited by the
government, those cases involve pretty -- I realize we
have an unclear, bizarre statute here as well, but those
are pretty bizarre statutes the government is relying on
where the Court has, and more often than not, it has
also been as an alternative statement, you could even
say possibly dicta, where the Court has said, oh,
Congress can give examples.
But more often than not, the Court applies
the ejustem generis canon and the noscitur a sociis
canon to confine or limit a superficially broad residual
phrase. And if that weren't the case, then Gutierrez v.
Ada would have come out the other way, Dolan v. Postal
Service, of course, Circuit City.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but S.D. Marine
wouldn't have come out the other way.
MR. ANDRE: That's true.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Was that an obscure
statute in S.D. Marine?
MR. ANDRE: I'm sorry. I'm not that
familiar with the statute that we have in that case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Doesn't the word, as
your brother argues, doesn't "any" cut against you? If
they intended the other law enforcement officer to be
limited to similar to customs or excise, it seems to me
they wouldn't have thrown in "any other law enforcement
officer."
MR. ANDRE: Well, as kind of a practical
matter, we don't think that when you have a statute like
this, the word "any" really does a lot of work. I mean
if you had taken out the word "any" and instead
pluralized the word "officer," I don't think the statute
really would work any differently.
But even taking -- taking as true this
Court's oft-repeated statement that "any" is evidence of
expansive meaning by Congress, we believe our
construction is faithful to that, because we are willing
to bring in to our construction of the statute some of
these other law enforcement officers who may be
performing their ordinary functions, such as DEA
officers, enforcement of drug laws, but they are doing
it akin to customs laws.
And again, the Court need not adopt that
construction for us to prevail in this case. But that's
how we believe that our construction is faithful to the
word "any" to the extent that in this statute it's
relevant at all.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask, following up on
Justice Alito's question, has there ever been a debate
in earlier stages in this litigation as to whether this
was a detention?
MR. ANDRE: No, there was not.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Because if it were not a
detention, then you'd win.
MR. ANDRE: Absolutely.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm just wondering why you
didn't make the argument somewhere along the line.
MR. ANDRE: Well, my client was pro se in
the Court of Appeals, and he didn't raise it there. And
to be -- again, we didn't think that the issue of
whether a detention had to be a seizure, something more
forceful, or whether it was so broad as to include more
of a passive bailment like we have here, we didn't
believe that that issue had percolated enough in the
courts of appeals to warrant petitioning on. So we
figured we'd fight this fight here today.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But it is clear -- there
are so many exceptions from exceptions from exceptions,
that you get a little mixed up, but I am clear, am I
not, that if it were not a detention, you would win?
MR. ANDRE: Absolutely.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Everybody agrees.
MR. ANDRE: If there was not a detention or
if the BOP guard was not an any other law enforcement,
we would win under either two of those independent
analyses.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And is it also not clear
that under the government's -- I guess I should ask
them, but I got it right in front of me now -- if you
deleted the words "officer of customs or exercise or any
other," if you just took those words out of the statute,
it would then mean exactly what the government contends
it means?
MR. ANDRE: That's exactly right. And
that's why we believe that the rule against superfluity
is another reason why our construction is more faithful
to Congress's intent in this case.
As I mentioned at the outset, we also
believe that the legislative history underlying purposes
for this particular provision support our reading. In
particular, I realize the legislative history is pretty
sparse, but in particular, there were six congressional
committee reports issued by Congress after the detention
clause was expanded to essentially its current form.
And in all six of those reports, Congress
conspicuously omitted to make any reference to the fact
that this phrase could possibly reach the detentions of
all property by all law enforcement officers.
Now, we're not suggesting that this case is
at all like Arlington v. Murphy, for example, where we
are going to have legislative history try to overrule a
clear statutory text. I think it's pretty clear that
this text is ambiguous, and so legislative history is
relevant to give that text meaning.
And so the reason why we focus here on those
particular committee reports is, as the Court of Appeals
has stated, the committee reports are the most helpful
form of legislative history because when many members of
Congress go up to vote, they haven't parsed particular
provisions in the text; they rely on the committee
reports, the reports prepared by the committee that
marked up and presented the language to the floor. And
so, if when all those members --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the President
doesn't rely on those when he signs the statute into
law.
MR. ANDRE: No. That's true, Your Honor.
But when those members typically go up to the floor and
vote, they oftentimes don't parse the language. They
rely on the committee reports.
And so if the government's construction were
correct here, essentially what you would have is all of
those members' votes being overridden because they
couldn't possibly have known -- unless they took the
time to parse the text and we all know that a lot of
times they don't -- they wouldn't possibly know that
there'd be any chance whatsoever that this phrase could
broadly reach the detention of property by all law
enforcement officers. Even putting that kind of
legislative history argument aside, I think we're -- our
strongest footing, when we talk about how our
construction is faithful to Congress's underlying
purpose for this particular provision, on three
occasions, this Court has either suggested or expressly
stated that the purpose for this particular provision
was to avoid the creation of a redundant federally
funded remedy. As we explain in our opening brief,
there was a pre-existing federally funded remedy only
for the negligent conduct of tax and customs officers.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does that still exist
after the Westfall Act?
MR. ANDRE: Well, we believe it would if --
well, actually that's a very good question. I'm not
sure.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because now, the -- there
wouldn't be -- the United States would be substituted --
MR. ANDRE: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- for the agent's
abuses.
MR. ANDRE: Right, but then in that
situation, once the United States substituted, they
could seek dismissal because the Westfall Act doesn't
override any exceptions to the FTCA. So, yes, Justice
Ginsburg, in that particular case, if you're dealing
with an officer of customs or tax or another law
enforcement acting in that capacity, and they were sued
personally for the negligent handling of property, the
government could certify they're acting within the scope
of their employment, step into the case, and then move
to dismiss under this provision, under 2680(c).
But, historically, there was -- before the
Westfall Act, there was a pre-existing federally funded
remedy for only officers acting in a tax or customs
capacity or customs or tax officers by name. And so it
would be inconsistent with Congress's underlying purpose
to avoid creating a duplicative remedy to apply its
provisions so broadly because Congress wanted to provide
a cause of action for claims against law enforcement
officers other than those against whom a cause of action
was already available.
JUSTICE ALITO: How do we know -- how do we
know that that's the only purpose of this exception?
MR. ANDRE: Well, as I mentioned, this Court
suggested in Kosak that that was the only only purpose,
but then in Hatzlachh and in Gutierrez v. Martinez, this
Court twice stated that that was the only purpose, and
the Court did so for good reason. Again, although the
legislative history is sparse, the only statements
whatsoever in the legislative record about the purpose
for this particular provision was that Congress was
intending to avoid creating a duplicative remedy.
JUSTICE ALITO: This is all based on Judge
Holtzoff's testimony? That's the basis for the
conclusion that this is the only purpose for this
exception?
MR. ANDRE: And it's also based on the
testimony of Colonel O.R. McGuire, who is general
counsel for the Comptroller General. And it wasn't just
Judge -- well, Judge Holtzoff was probably the architect
of the detention clause and maybe this entire provision.
It was the Comptroller General's Office, and Judge
Holtzoff who jointly were responsible for preparing tort
claims legislation. So, essentially, of the two people
who were most relevant to the preparation of the FTCA,
and granted we're talking 15 years before its actual
enactment, but two people who were most important for
preparing this tort claims legislation, they both agreed
that the only purpose for this particular provision was
to avoid creating a redundant remedy.
I'd like to save the rest of my time for
rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Andre. Mr. Shanmugam.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON SHANMUGAM
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
Section 2680(c) preserves the government's
immunity against tort claims concerning the detention of
property by any law enforcement officer. That reading
is consistent not only with the plain language of the
statute but also with Congress's underlying policy
objectives in creating the FTCA's exception.
Petitioner effectively asks this Court to engraft
language on to the statute by adding the amorphous
limitation "acting in a customs or tax capacity" to the
unambiguous statutory phrase "any other law enforcement
officer."
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Shanmugam, may I ask
you -- this goes to your ambiguity point. May I ask you
this question? If Congress wanted to cover all law
officers, the only reason for mentioning the customs and
excise people would be to make it very clear that they
were within that category of all law enforcement
officers, and I take it that's basically what you're
saying.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes, I think that's correct
with one caveat, Justice Souter, and I don't mean to
quibble, but I think that this is important. I think
when one looks at the evolution of the statute, it may
very well have that when Judge Holtzoff drafted the
relevant statutory language, he started with customs or
excise officers because the British bill that was
apparently the model for the detention of property
clause --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Right.
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- used that phrase, and he
may then have decided to expand it to other law
enforcement officers simply because he concluded that
there was no basis for treating other law enforcement
officers differently.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But wouldn't --
MR. SHANMUGAM: So --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But wouldn't the way to do
that would have made it at least clearer that that's
what Congress or what he had in mind and what Congress
was getting at would have been to provide that the --
that the exception referred to law enforcement officers
including an officer or customs of excise? In other
words, they would have made it clear that at that point,
the old historical customs and excise rule was sort of
the tail on the dog, and the dog was law enforcement
officers. Instead, however, the order is exactly
different. On what your reading is -- on your reading,
what is now the tail of the dog comes first, and the
general clause "law enforcement officer" comes second.
MR. SHANMUGAM: I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So, number one, it is less
clear and it really raises the question: Weren't they
trying to get simply at law enforcement officers who
were doing the customs and excise function? So my
question is, why doesn't the order of the words cut
against you by putting, on your theory, the tail of the
dog before the dog?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Souter, it is
certainly true that Congress could have written that
statute that way and indeed could have omitted the
customs or excise officers entirely, and that certainly
would be a clearer statute in the sense that I don't
think that Mr. Andre would be here if we had a statute
that simply referred to any law enforcement officer.
But the United States Code is replete with
provisions that fit this model, that start with specific
examples and then contain a general residual clause.
And, indeed, even the Constitution has similar
provisions. To take one concrete example that we cite
among the many examples in footnote 11 of our brief, the
Extradition Clause in Article IV of the Constitution
refers to extradition for treason, felonies, and other
crimes, and there is no doubt that the framers could
have simply referred to crimes, but they cited those
examples. As this Court held in a case way back when,
Kentucky v. Denyson, the reason that Congress used those
examples was for emphasis to make clear that political
crimes such as treason and other felonies that would
qualify as political crimes were covered.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's also --
MR. SHANMUGAM: So --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's also not entirely
clear what -- whether it's a tail or not. It depends on
what the dog is. If you can -- if you were trying to
identify the most common instances, especially at the
time this provision was enacted, the most common
instances in which property was detained by the
government, I mean you know, later -- later forfeiture
provisions are numerous, but at that time I think they
were relatively few. I think the dog would have been --
would have been customs and excise officers. And the
"or other officers" would have picked up probably very
little real -- real instances of property detention.
MR.SHANMUGAM: Assuming for present
purposes, Justice Scalia, that the dog here is any
officer of customs or excise, I think that the critical
point is that the tail was indeed smaller than it would
be today because customs and excise officers were among
the most important federal law enforcement officers.
JUSTICE STEVENS: If you --
MR. SHANMUGAM: You know --
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but -- but a short
time ago you said there was no basis for distinguishing
between excise officers and all other law enforcement
officers. But there was indeed a basis for it, namely
that there was an alternative remedy for people
specifically named in the statute, which is not true of
all other officers. It's true now, but it wasn't then.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we believe, first of
all, that if one looks at this Court's decision in
Kosak, the Court did not in any way suggest that the
availability of alternative remedies was the sole
purpose --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm not suggesting that,
but that is a reason for drawing a distinction between
all others and this particular claim.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Stevens, it
certainly was one of Congress's primary purposes in
creating the exceptions generally, but we do believe
that our interpretation of the statute serves that
purpose, albeit to a lesser extent perhaps than it
serves the other congressional purposes, but that was --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It didn't serve that
purpose before 2000.
MR.SHANMUGAM: It did serve that purpose,
Justice Stevens, because there was an alternative
remedy, albeit one that was not federally funded and
that was a common-law action against a law enforcement
officer in his personal capacity for negligence.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why wasn't it federally
funded? I thought there was a provision for
indemnification.
MR.SHANMUGAM: There was a provision for
indemnification for revenue officers and other officers
essentially acting in a revenue capacity, I believe that
the exact statutory language was "collectors and other
revenue officers" -- and that indemnification provision,
to be sure, would not have applied to garden variety law
enforcement officers.
But in looking at the availability of
alternative remedies, this Court has never suggested
that whether that congressional purpose is served
somehow turns on whether the money came directly from an
officer or whether it came from the Federal fisc. And
Petitioner in his reply brief cites Dolan for that
proposition but whether the alternative remedy was
federally funded was simply not at issue in Dolan. At
most the Court concluded that the alternative remedy
available there was insufficient.
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you actually have any
information about the early 1940s, about who was a
Federal law enforcement officer? I think the FBI, the
Bureau of Prisons -- there were a lot of people being
detained. There were goods that were having to do with
contraband, foreign goods, maybe domestic, things you
weren't supposed to have, food stamps. Illegal
rations -- OPA -- I mean, you know, there were, you were
only supposed to have so much food.
Have we any notion who other law enforcement
officers might have applied to at that time?
MR. SHANMUGAM: It's very difficult to
quantify, Justice Breyer, but I do think we have some
sense historically of the state of play at various law
enforcement agencies; and the FBI was in a relatively
nascent stage in 1946. I think the FBI dates from
approximately the turn of the 20th century. Certainly
the Bureau of Prisons, while it existed, was detaining
far fewer people than it does now.
JUSTICE BREYER: I think the FBI had quite a
big job in World War II.
MR. SHANMUGAM: It did. To be sure, but
there were not --
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought there were
thousands and thousands and thousands of FBI people.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I don't --
JUSTICE BREYER: So do we know? I'm getting
from you that you don't know and I don't know. Is that
right?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yeah. I don't have exact
numbers. I attempted to find them out. But --
JUSTICE BREYER: We don't even have a
ballpark.
MR. SHANMUGAM: I can't offer you a
ballpark, but I think what I can say, and this accords
with observations that various members of this Court
have made over the years, is that there were simply far
fewer Federal criminal provisions then than there are
now, and I think that that is one of the reasons why
we've really seen an explosion in the number of these
cases as time has gone on, while the FTCA --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, well that might be.
But I'm sitting in Congress, I read this statute, I
think maybe they were talking about customs people and
the like. Now, there is this other word in there,
that's true. So we look up, where does the other word
come from? The other word comes from Judge Holtzoff.
He explained it, we don't have to guess. We can read
his explanation. His explanation comes in a paragraph
having to do with customs and excise, and beginning
with, I'm talking about customs and excise, and the
additional proviso as special reference, where they use
this phrase, and then he says it's all supposed to be
like the Crown Proceedings Committee in England in 1927,
which in fact had nothing to do with anybody but customs
and excise.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do the members of Congress
who voted on this language, when it was presented to
them, did they even know who Judge Holtzoff was?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, they may very well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did he testify to this
effect before one of the committees?
MR. SHANMUGAM: He did testify before one of
the committees. He did not address this specific issue,
but as this Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: 15 years before it was
passed, right?
MR. SHANMUGAM: 15 years before it was
passed, Judge Holtzoff wrote this report, and as both
the majority and Justice Stevens in his dissenting
opinion in Kosak observed, there was no evidence that
this report was even introduced into the legislative
record.
JUSTICE BREYER: So -- so if it was not -- I
mean, I would suspect at that time Judge Holtzoff was a
pretty well known person in the legal community and I
would suspected if we are guessing at such a thing that
quite a few did know who he was. And I suspect that
when Congress passes a technical bill, they are
interested in the views of the Department of Justice and
these were those views.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes. I want to --
JUSTICE BREYER: So if we are going to play
a magic game that we don't pay attention to what sheds
light on it, fine, then we don't, but I would.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, Justice Breyer, I
wanted simply to make the point that in the pantheon of
legislative history sources for those members of the
Court who are interested in legislative history, we
recognized that the Holtzoff report should not be
afforded great weight. But that having been said, I
want to address directly the language you cite from the
Holtzoff report, because I believe that that language if
anything supports our position, and not Petitioners,
because in the relevant sentence of the Holtzoff report,
Judge Holtzoff wrote that the additional proviso,
meaning the detention of property clause, has special
reference to the detention of imported goods in
appraisers' warehouses or customs houses as well as
seizures by law enforcement officials, Internal Revenue
officers and the like. Now Petitioner --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there any
legislative history about what Judge Holtzoff meant by
that?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, one could make the
argument that that legislative history is itself
ambiguous; and indeed the D.C. Circuit in adopting
Petitioner's construction itself acknowledged that at
best, the legislative history was as unclear as the
statute.
All I mean to suggest is that Petitioner
does not have available to him any sort of ejusdem
generis argument in construing that sentence.
JUSTICE BREYER: But I think in reading
that, I think that's a good point. My actual reading of
it, of that paragraph 2, is that it's not free of
ambiguity. I completely agree with you. And if I read
through it, then I'm making up my mind as a judge, well,
how do I feel about what these words likely show and how
people in Congress would have interpreted that kind of
reference or statement in testimony by a person who
thought this? Free of ambiguity, I agree with you, it
isn't. But it might cut somewhat more in favor of the
Petitioners than the Respondents.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think, Justice
Breyer, with all respect, that this is not a case in
which very much of a conclusion can be drawn from the
legislative history one way or another. We have this
language from the Holtzoff report which I admit, you
know, could be susceptible to the same sorts of
arguments that Petitioner is making with regard to what
we feel is the unambiguous language of the statute. But
other than that the only thing that my friend has Mr.
Andre has cited are these summaries in various
congressional reports which essentially summarize in
shorthand, often in a single sentence, all of the
proposed exceptions in the FTCA; and none of those
summaries so much as refers to the "and any other law
enforcement officer" language at all. In fact, some of
the summaries on which Petitioner relies do not even
cite the detention of property exception at all.
So this is, in our view, a case in which at
most, the legislative history is simply silent. And we
are left, I think, and indeed we should start with the
text of the statute, and we have the unambiguous phrase
"or any other law enforcement officer" in this case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You have a difference
with Mr. Andre on the extent to which other law
enforcement officers assist customs and revenue agents.
In your brief you say that's a rare occurrence. And
Mr. Andre says oh no, it's quite common. So which is
it?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we do believe that it
is a rare occurrence, but in some sense, Justice
Ginsburg, I think that the answer to that question
depends on exactly what it is that Petitioner means when
he says that an officer is acting in a customs or tax
capacity. And with the Court's leave, I'd like to offer
at least three possible explanations for what that means
and then explain why each of them would be an erroneous
interpretation for this Court to adopt, and each of
these three explanations I should add, appear at various
points in Petitioner's brief.
The first is that an officer is acting in a
customs or tax capacity when the officer is actually
acting in a revenue collecting capacity. And we believe
that if the Court were to adopt that limitation, there
really are no actual cases of which we are aware that
would fall within that language. And indeed, it would
cast some doubt on the meaning of the preceding phrase
"any officer of customs or excise" because one might
very well wonder whether under Petitioner's construction
that phrase should also be limited to a revenue
collecting capacity.
The second possible explanation is that an
officer is acting in a customs or tax capacity when the
officer is more generally acting to enforce the customs
or tax laws, that is to say, the provisions of Title 19
or 26 of the United States Code. But we believe that
that interpretation, too, would suffer from the same two
deficiencies that I've already identified and would also
suffer from a third, namely, to the extent that
Petitioner relies for his noscitur a sociis argument on
the assessment of taxes clause, that limitation would
actually sweep more broadly than the mere assessment of
taxes.
So the third possible interpretation and the
one that we're left with, I think, is that an officer is
acting in a customs or tax capacity whenever the officer
is actually performing a function that is performed by
customs or excise Internal Revenue officers. But if
anything, that limitation would exclude only a very
small number of cases apart from cases in the prison
context such as this one, because as Petitioner himself
recognizes, customs officers have virtually plenary
authority to enforce the criminal provisions of the
United States Code.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are all customs and excise
officers law enforcement officers?
MR. SHANMUGAM: All customs officers, by
statute, have law- enforcement authority, and that is
under, I believe, 19 U.S.C. 1589(a).
Now, to be sure, there are people employed
by the Customs Service, now ICE and CBP components of
the Department of Homeland Security, who wouldn't
qualify as customs officers.
There are secretaries and other people
employed there that don't that statutory definition.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are there other
circumstances in which, let's say, goods are being
shipped into the country, and the -- the shipment is
detained by someone who is not a law-enforcement
officer, at least under the definition in subsection
(h), someone who has the power to execute searches,
seize evidence, and make arrests?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think they typically would
be, and I'm not aware of any examples in which they
would not be, because customs officers are the vast
majority of people who are employed by the various
customs-related agencies.
And the same is true, I would note, with
regard to Internal Revenue officers. One of the
oddities of this statute is that Judge Holtzoff, rather
than using the known term "Internal Revenue Officer,"
actually used this phrase "officer of excise," seemingly
borrowing from the British bill.
And we believe that, at most, that phrase
would have to refer to an Internal Revenue officer
acting in an excise- collecting capacity. But, to the
extent that "excise officer" has a narrower meaning than
"Internal Revenue officer," we believe that that
actually supports our construction, because it would
have been quite peculiar for Judge Holtzoff and Congress
to have referred only to an excise officer and not to an
Internal Revenue officer if they had meant to limit the
residual phrase "any other law-enforcement officer" to
officers acting in a customs or tax capacity.
JUSTICE BREYER: Have you -- have you found
any -- any research on that? I mean I think that's a
very interesting point that -- that -- have you found
any book I could look at or report that -- that would
cast some light on whether at that time, 1946, the
phrase "other law enforcement officers" referred to a
large number of people who had a lot of different tasks
that had not much to do with customs or excise?
If so, this would be an odd way of sneaking
them into the bill. That's who it would look like.
On the other hand, if there were just a few
of them, well, then, the bill, at worst, is a little bit
more than somebody might have thought; and it would
appear perfectly normal to a legislator. So is -- is
there anything to look at?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I wish that I could point to
such a book, Justice Breyer. I know that, in doing my
own research, what I did was simply to go on the
Internet and go to the website's of various Federal
law-enforcement agencies and try to get a sense of when
they were established.
But, unfortunately, as I said earlier, I was
just unable to obtain any numbers as to how much
officers these various agencies had, and the like.
But I think that, more broadly, certainly
Congress knew what the phrase "any other law enforcement
officer" meant. And Judge Holtzoff proposed this
language in what would become the bill that was
introduced in December of 1931.
The FTCA was, of course, ultimately enacted
in 1946, and I think that one of the difficulties in
attempting to look to this legislative history, which,
as I say, we believe is silent, is that you're talking
about, you know, a number of Congresses over many years.
And, to be sure, this Court has looked to
these same legislative history sources in prior
decisions construing the FTCA. But, you know, I do
think that we are left with the plain language here.
And we are also left with Congress's underlying policy
objectives, and I do want to say a word about the other
two policy objectives on which this court relied in
Kosak which --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Shanmugam, before you
get into policy, may I just suggest that there is a
possible fourth category, really. You had mentioned
three, and one -- a fourth possibility might be
"law-enforcement officer," in a very broad sense of the
term, but one who is simply providing, let's say,
protective service in aid ultimately of the revenue
laws.
And the reason I have thought of this is
that this sort of situation went on in my -- my native
State in this past month, in which the United States
Marshal Service, which at the time all of these statutes
were enacted was a fairly large agency, took control of
some real estate in -- in New Hampshire which had been
the property, or was the property, of tax protesters.
And they -- they held custody of that. They
took control of that real estate for about a week to
make sure that there were no booby traps and bombs that
-- that would -- that would blow up the IRS people when
they went in there to enforce their tax liens.
That would be an example of "law-enforcement
officer" in a very broad sense. It could cover the
Marshal service, the FBI, and whatnot; and, yet, the --
and No. 2, they would be exercising, you know, typical
law-enforcement functions, protective functions. And,
yet, they would be doing so in -- in aid of -- of the
tax or the revenue laws.
That would be a plausible reason for -- for
sticking in the general phrase, and it would be a
plausible reading of the phrase, wouldn't it?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, Justice Souter, I
think, with no disrespect to the good law-enforcement
officers of New Hampshire, that these cases come up far
more rarely in the Federal context, because both customs
officers and Internal Revenue officers are
law-enforcement officers who have, I think, quite a
refined capability. They carry weapons, and they are, I
think, usually very well prepared to kill if --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do IRS agents have -- have
expertise in -- bomb detection and dismantling?
MR. SHANMUGAM: There certainly might very
well be cases in which they would feel the need to call
in the FBI or other law- enforcement agencies. But I do
think that it is telling that in the 60-year history of
the FTCA there don't appear to be any cases that fall
into that category.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, there don't seem to
be many cases because -- I mean that's why we've got
this one at this point.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, there are quite a few
cases more generally. I think that there are something
in the neighborhood of 17 prior decisions in the courts
of appeals alone involving these fact patterns or
similar ones.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Over what period of time?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Over the 60-year period of
the enactment of the FTCA.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I mean that's not --
that's not a deluge of litigation. I mean it seems to
me there is reason to assume that no matter what reading
we give it, there is a plausible reading that can come
up that -- that confines the actual application of the
"other law-enforcement officer" fairly narrowly.
MR. SHANMUGAM: But our fundamental
submission, Justice Souter, is that there is no good
textual reason for confining the phrase "any other
law-enforcement officer," because that phrase, in our
view, is unambiguous.
And, notably, Petitioner in his brief and at
oral argument does not directly contend that there is
any ambiguity in that phrase, itself. And this Court
has noted, in applying both the noscitur a sociis and
the ejusdem generis canons of construction, that where
the relevant phrase to which a limiting construction is
being applied is itself unambiguous, that that is the
end of the inquiry.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but the question of
what is -- what is ambiguous or not is -- is a question
of context. And if you take the phrase "law-enforcement
officer," and you say is that ambiguous, and you say
well, gee, no.
But if you stick it in this particular
statute and it happens to follow these specific
references to tax gatherers and tax and excise laws,
then it seems to me it's fair to say it does become
ambiguous, because it gives rise to a reasonable
question.
Were they just getting at law-enforcement
officers who were performing these kinds of functions,
or did they really mean it as broadly as the phrase in
real isolation would have meant? That's ambiguity, and
that's what we've got here.
MR. SHANMUGAM: I don't believe that that's
correct, Justice Souter, and the reason that I don't
believe that that is correct is because this Court has
suggested that the starting point is the relevant phrase
that is being interpreted.
And here we have the phrase "any other law
enforcement- officer."
JUSTICE SOUTER: But then you are saying,
don't read the statute as a whole. That argument, in
effect, is saying isolate the phrase -- and we don't do
that.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, no, Justice Souter. I
think that where the phrase is unambiguous, this Court
has suggested that the inquiry is at an end, and, to
take an example --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I agree with you. And if I
make the assumption that it's unambiguous, your argument
is unassailable. But if I don't make that assumption,
then your argument risks circularity.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, let me --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And my suggestion is that
it is the context that makes your argument a tough sell.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Let me try to explain to you
why you should make that assumption, and it is because
Congress here used the word "any."
And this Court has repeatedly noted that
where Congress uses the word "any," it is substantial
evidence that Congress intends a phrase to be construed
broadly. And this Court has specifically refused to
apply the ejusdem generis canon to phrases introduced by
the word "any" on precisely the ground I cite, namely,
because they conclude that that phrase is unambiguous.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you are talking about
the use of the word "any" all by itself. Here it says
"any officer or customs or excise or other" -- "or
other," and you would just take those words out of the
statute.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we wouldn't be taking
the words out of the statute, because we do believe --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you believe they add
nothing to the text of the statute.
MR. SHANMUGAM: They add nothing to the text
of the statute in the sense that Congress could have
written the statute to refer to any law-enforcement
officer. That is certainly true. That is also true
with regard to all of the statutes and constitutional
provisions that we cite in footnote 11 of our brief.
And, indeed, in some sense, it would be true with regard
to Petitioner's proposed construction insofar as
Congress could easily have written a statute that simply
referred to any law-enforcement officer acting in a
customs or tax capacity.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There are two "anys" here.
I'm not sure that --
MR. SHANMUGAM: I'm certainly referring to
the "any" that modifies "any other law enforcement
officer."
JUSTICE SCALIA: Any other. So it says any
goods by any officer of customs or excise, or if it just
had said "other law enforcement officer," you might --
you might disregard the force of any because it was way
back there.
MR. SHANMUGAM: That's right. And contrary
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: But if they repeat "or any
other law enforcement" --
MR. SHANMUGAM: That's right. And contrary
to Mr. Andre's submission, this Court has made precisely
that point in Harrison v. PPG Industries, in which the
Court was construing a similar phrase that referred to
"any other final action by an EPA administrator." And
that came after a series of specific final actions to
which the statute referred. And the Court actually
said, in so many words, it might be different if the
word "any" were omitted, but we believe that the
inclusion of "any" renders that phrase unambiguous.
And I would note as well, Justice Souter,
that in your dissenting opinion to be sure in Circuit
City in footnote 2, you cited all of these very cases on
which I'm relying now in support of your proffered
construction of the statute.
JUSTICE SOUTER: They were on point for my
dissent. I know.
(Laughter.)
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think -- I would
respectfully submit that they are on point to our
construction as well. But I do want to say a word about
the underlying policy objectives here --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I know your time is
running out, but I would like you also to say a word
about what remedy, if any, does Ali have when you're
saying he had his prayer rug and Koran, and the
government lost them and he didn't get any compensation?
Does he have any remedy?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Sure, Justice Ginsburg. And
the answer is, yes, that he does. He does have an
administrative remedy.
And I'd like to say just a couple of things
about the available administrative remedies.
First of all, any claimant who claims that a
Federal agency, including a Federal law enforcement
agency negligently damaged his or her property, would
have a claim under 31 U.S.C. 3723 for up to $1,000.
That statute, which we cite in a footnote, I believe in
our brief, would cover the vast majority of claims
involving the Bureau of Prisons.
There's actually another Federal statute, 31
U.S.C. 3724, which provides a further remedy against the
Department of Justice for up to $50,000 for personal
injury or property damage caused by a law enforcement
officer. And critically, that statute expressly makes
clear that it applies where the FTCA does not. And so
that administrative remedy would be fully available.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there's no court --
there's no court role in that process.
MR. SHANMUGAM: There is no court role in
that process, but the Bureau of Prisons routinely
processes these administrative claims. As we note in
our brief, there were 12,000 such claims over the last
three years. The Bureau of Prisons has procedures for
processing those claims. It paid out something in the
neighborhood of 1,100 of those claims.
And there's no reason to think that the
Bureau of Prisons would alter those procedures if the
Court were to hold in this case that there is no
judicial remedy. Indeed, the Bureau of Prisons has paid
out on such claims even in circuits that have adopted
our interpretation.
I do want to say just a word about the
underlying policy considerations, because to the extent
that members of the Court feel that the statute is
ambiguous, we believe that they strongly support our
construction.
In Kosak, this Court analyzed two other
policy considerations in addition to the avoidance of
duplicative remedies: First, protecting important
government functions from the threat of suit; and
second, avoiding exposure to fraudulent claims. And we
believe that those concerns are particularly implicated
in the prison context which constitutes the mine run of
cases in this area. Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Shanmugam.
Mr. Andre, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEAN-CLAUDE ANDRE
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER
MR. ANDRE: I'd like to first address the
government's resistance to making any concession that
the statute is ambiguous. First of all, if the
statutory language in this case was so clear, then so
must the statutory language in Circuit City. The
language had started out with the words "any other," and
clearly then were followed by words that have a very
plain meaning out of context, "any worker engaged in
interstate or foreign commerce."
We just don't believe that the government's
position that the statute is unambiguous can be squared
with that case. Nor do we think as a factual matter
that the statute is unambiguous.
In particular, we think it would have been
strange for this Court in Kosak to go out of its way in
a footnote and expressly decline to resolve today's
question presented if the detention of property clause,
in particular the "law enforcement officer" phrase, had
only one clear meaning.
And then on top of that, as we noted in our
reply brief, five courts of appeals have adopted our
construction; two other circuit judges have written
separately. The total is 16 circuit judges that have
found our position to be credible, found the statute to
be ambiguous, applied the canons of construction that we
are urging the Court to apply today, and then resolved
the case in our favor
So if, if the statute is truly unambiguous,
then those 16 circuit judges not only got this issue
wrong, they got it very wrong.
Justice Breyer, I unfortunately don't have an
example either of what other types of law enforcement
officers were out there at the time of the FTCA's
enactment, but I do have one example, and that would be
the Elliott Ness and the Al Capone investigation.
Elliott Ness was in charge of running a group
of -- in charge of supervising a group of government
agents who were part of the Department of Justice, even
though Elliott Ness himself was a treasury agent. And
they were all trying enforce the Volstead Act, but -- to
get Al Capone on charges of income tax evasion. And so
we believe that that's a nice example from the early
1930s when Judge Holtzoff drafted this language that
shows that you could have a revenue officer working
with -- in fact, supervising other law enforcement
officers, and they are all really doing the same thing.
As far as the policy considerations are
concerned, we believe that the government's reliance on
the two other general purposes for the FTCA exceptions
just prove too much. Pretty much any governmental
function is important. And so the government in every
brief they filed on this issue below and in pretty much
every FTCA exception case that we've seen has come in
and said, oh, but our interests are served by these two
other purposes, and therefore, this statutory exemption
has to be construed narrowly.
Again, as a factual matter, we don't think that
their concerns are really all that well founded, in any
event. True, there were 12,000 administrative claims filed
by Federal prisoners over the last three years. But as we
pointed out in footnote 12 of our cert petition, there
were only 16 cases filed in all of 2006 by Federal
prisoners under this statute.
settlement process is working, and that also Federal
prisoners are just not bringing suit and there is a very
good reason for. That it's the Federal filing fee.
That's $455. My client's claim in this case is $177.
Prisoners don't evaluate whether to sue based
on some sophisticated reading of sovereign immunity
doctrines and ambiguous statutory text. They, you know,
they think about their wallet. They make $2.50 a day,
and it's just not worth it for them to risk --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wouldn't they have IFP
status?
MR. ANDRE: Even if a prisoner gets IFP
status, they still have to pay the full filing fee. The
IFP status only allows them to pay in installments. So
it's debited off their account. So they still make a
very real calculation when they decide whether to sue
based on how much is at stake and how much is it going
to cost me.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Here there wasn't that
much at stake.
MR. ANDRE: That's correct. There was $177
at stake and so perhaps my client shouldn't have sued
because it didn't make a lot of sense, although he also
did file the suit a couple years earlier when the filing
fee was lower. But in our experience, prisoners they
are not going to typically sue for these kinds of
claims. This is nothing like the Prison Litigation
Reform Act problem we had in Jones V. Bock, where there
are 24,000 cases coming before the Federal courts every
year. That's just not something we envisioned.
So we don't think that adopting any one of
the four constructions discussed are debated between my
friend and Justice Souter would somehow open up the
floodgates here and lead to a lot of prisoners suing
under this particular provision. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Andre. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:08 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
37:24 38:5 51:16 52:8 applies 17:16 authority 39:9
56:7 53:1 amorphous apply 4:6 5:5,18 auxiliary 13:15
20:3 55:24 analyses 20:8 23:23 47:14 31:4
43:5 50:10,11 11:10,15,24 32:5 25:6
23:9,19 agent 13:13 14:19 15:9,25 3:24 avoiding 51:22
55:21 53:19 17:6,24 18:2 architect 24:21 aware 38:6 40:5
13:19 37:12 19:15 20:3,5 argues 18:5
53:18 20:16 21:24 argument 1:13 B
30:24
38:2,4 agent's 23:5 22:24 23:4,7 2:2,7 3:3 4:22 back 5:15 7:5
39:2 ago 7:15 29:17 24:5,18 25:10 19:14 22:12 16:14 28:14
48:10 agree 6:19 15:9 28:2 36:22 25:11 35:19 48:21
24:1 agreed 25:4 52:4,6 55:5,14 45:12 46:18 bailment 15:16
49:5 agrees 20:4 56:5 47:1,3,6 52:4 16:9 19:20
akin 13:9 16:3 Angeles 1:16 36:19 32:23
45:4 Al 1:7 53:15,21 50:5 Arlington 21:7 based 8:19
24:14 39:11,22 apparently asking 9:12 12:6 26:22 29:17,19
allows 55:7 44:20 53:1 38:22,23 52:5
35:9 alternative 37:25 41:14 Assistant 1:18 5:17 6:6,7,21
52:6 30:1,15 31:5 APPEARAN... assume 10:18 9:6 12:17,25
51:2 ambiguity 26:2 applicable 8:19 Assuming 29:8 15:14 16:15
36:5,10 45:13 application 7:13 assumption 47:1 18:18 19:2,21
ambiguous applied 3:19 attempted 32:19 29:23 30:8,24
37:16 40:14 37:5,9 51:9 circuits 51:11 55:15
39:15 broad 3:19 4:5 52:9,17 53:7 circularity 47:3 client's 15:3
42:8 8:1 14:2 16:11 54:8,22 56:5,6 circumstances 54:22
47:23 17:18 19:19 cases 4:17 9:19 39:23 Code 7:1 28:4
49:9 42:22 43:14 10:14 16:25 cite 28:8 35:5 38:17 39:10
51:16,23 broadens 9:15 17:7,8,9 33:4 37:4 47:15 collecting 38:4
53:22 broadly 3:12 38:6 39:6,6 48:6 50:13 38:12 40:17
14:5 22:10 43:25 44:9,12 cited 17:8 28:13 collection 7:10
41:10,12 5:19 12:2 15:6 category 26:6 civil 9:19 comes 11:25
16:9 31:17 42:20 44:13 claim 8:19 11:13 27:12,13 33:10
53:5 32:5 41:25 16:18 21:1 common 17:3
23:13,21 25:23 chance 22:9 35:10 38:22 30:17
33:5 30:18,24 37:21 change 8:15 52:22 community
38:3,4,12,14 changes 8:14,14 clear 10:19 15:2 34:14
41:1 39:2 40:17,25 charge 53:16,17 15:10 19:24 compensation
53:11 48:11 charges 53:21 20:1,9 21:9,9 50:2
28:9 53:21 Chief 3:3,7 4:11 28:16,22 50:21 components
37:13 carry 44:4 6:3,12,20 52:9,24 39:17
45:11 case 3:4,14,16 16:23 17:22,25 clearer 27:2 Comptroller
50:14 3:25 5:1 7:6,15 18:4 21:21 28:1 24:20,23
53:1 54:7 8:6 13:17,18 25:9,13 35:15 clearly 8:17 concept 15:23
15:15,15 16:8 circuit 3:18,18 clerk 15:19 concerning
18:20 17:19 18:3 3:22 4:8,14 16:10 25:16
21:6 23:11,16 35:20 49:12 client 14:22 54:13
3:14 14:2 11:19 17:21 cues 5:21 7:6,8 December 42:4
36:15 18:19,20 19:1 court 1:1,13 3:8 current 21:1 decided 5:9 9:7
22:21 38:10 40:20 7:25 8:7,9 14:1 customs 4:15,16 decisions 42:12
6:7 15:12 29:25 31:5,12 13:8,10,15 40:1
8:3,16 9:7 construed 47:12 32:24 34:3 14:6 18:7,24 definitions 8:7
10:19 54:11 35:2 37:24 20:12 22:21 deleted 20:12
16:6 construing 36:1 38:5 42:10,16 23:12,20,21 delivery 7:24
18:18 42:12 49:4 45:13 46:12,22 25:23 26:4,14 deluge 45:1
21:2,16 contain 28:6 47:10,13 49:2 27:6,8,18,25 Denyson 28:15
24:12 contained 7:6 49:4,7 50:23 29:5,10,12 Department
27:3,3,23 container 13:20 50:24,25 51:9 33:7,13,14,18 1:19 12:2
33:6,20 contains 5:7,21 51:15,18 52:20 35:12 37:12,20 34:18 39:18
36:8 7:8 16:18 53:6 38:3,9,14,15 50:18 53:18
42:1 contend 45:12 courts 19:22 39:2,4,8,11,13 depends 28:22
contends 20:14 44:19 53:1 39:17,19 40:6 37:19
context 8:3,3 55:22 40:25 41:8 detain 6:9 11:8
30:11 51:24 52:13 cover 9:4 26:3 customs-related 39:25
36:23 contextual 5:21 43:14 50:14 40:8 detaining 11:18
14:12 contraband covered 6:10 36:11 detains 11:6
22:14 31:19 10:2,4 12:24 c)Federal 3:9 detect 13:23
25:19 contracts 3:23 13:1,4 28:18 detection 44:7
42:14 4:2 covers 7:3 D detention 5:24
54:2 control 43:5,9 30:8 50:19 14:21,24 15:3
46:11,12 55:14 credible 53:4 day 55:1 19:8,11,18
counsel 8:10 28:17,18 13:19 18:22 22:10 24:22
country 39:24 39:9 debate 14:20 29:7 35:10,11
duplicative 11:18,23 12:14 event 54:14 exclude 39:5
51:20 14:4,16,16,17 evidence 18:17 execute 40:2
41:7 duty 7:10 16:21 18:6,8 47:12 16:10
D.C 1:9,19 18:21,23 20:6 evolution 26:12 exempted 3:23
26:23 23:13,25 25:17 32:18 exemption
35:5 early 31:15 31:3,16,23 4:19 10:11 existed 32:6
53:22 32:3 35:13 11:17,22,24 expand 26:20
effect 33:25 42:1 44:10 21:7 28:8 experience
ejusdem 3:19 England 33:17 40:5 explanation
47:14 entirely 27:25 9:3,3,3,8,9,13 37:22,25
28:23 53:19 55:23 25:20 27:5 expressly 13:1
emphasis 28:16 envisions 10:6 37:4 54:8 22:16 50:20
27:18 39:21 40:7 erroneous 37:23 19:25,25,25 extent 19:3
43:18 employees 4:3 especially 28:24 23:10 30:8 30:10 37:11
employment ESQ 1:16,18 2:3 36:25 54:4 38:20 40:18
31:9,11 enacted 28:25 essentially 8:8 5:9,12 6:2,15 extra 12:16
enforce 38:15 established 29:10,12,18 F
53:20 establishes 3:10 38:9 39:4,11 fact 8:6 9:6
33:18 find 13:5 32:19 fourth 42:20,21 54:4 23:15 29:2
44:20 fine 34:23 framers 28:12 generally 14:18 50:2 51:21
first 4:20 6:19 fraud 13:2 30:8 38:15 53:17 54:6
29:23 38:2 51:22 General's 24:23 54:5
20:18 fit 13:12 28:5 friend 36:21 47:14 16:19 20:10
five 53:1 56:1 gentleman 12:4 22:3 25:15
44:12 floor 21:19,25 FTCA 11:14 32:15 46:5 granted 25:2
54:2 45:25 42:5,12 44:12 22:22 23:2,5 ground 47:15
32:3,4,8 foot 7:19 53:13 55:12 20:10 33:11
43:15 footing 22:13 full 55:6 give 11:16,22 guessing 34:15
footnote 28:9 fully 50:22 14:11,12 17:15 Gutierrez 17:19
7:17 8:22 50:13 52:21 27:18 39:3 given 14:10
10:5 11:2 54:16 54:6 gives 46:3 H
29:13 force 48:20 functions 5:22 giving 10:10 h 40:2
33:1 forceful 19:19 5:24 12:21 17:2 Hampshire 43:6
44:1 forces 12:19 18:22 43:17,17 go 15:19 17:7 43:25
foreign 4:4 46:6 51:21 21:16,25 41:18 hand 41:11
31:19 52:14 fundamental 41:19 52:20 handling 23:14
forfeiture 8:22 45:6 goes 26:2 happens 45:25
23:19 9:19,20,21,23 23:19 30:16,20 15:20 17:3 hard 13:5
31:11 10:13,15,16,20 31:11 21:8 34:21 Harrison 49:3
29:2 good 22:25 24:9 hear 3:3
10:14 G 3:1 45:7 54:21 helpful 21:14
Formula 13:17 garden 31:2 6:12,22,22,24 historically 7:1
55:25 24:19,20 27:13 4:21 5:17 8:6,9 37:6 42:7,11
26:13 indicate 7:23 interpreted 36:8 Justice 1:19 3:3 18:10 22:11
34:7 16:25 46:14 3:7 4:11 6:3,12 36:8
35:3,6,8 indistinguisha... interstate 4:4 6:20 8:10,17 kinds 3:23 46:6
36:17 3:20 52:14 9:2 10:1,24 55:19
42:2 Industries 49:3 introduced 11:9,15 12:23 knew 42:1
information 34:10 42:4 13:11,16,22 know 7:2 10:4
injury 7:20 8:19 investigation 17:22,25 18:4 24:3,4 29:2,15
inquiry 45:18 53:15 19:24 20:4,9 32:16 33:22
28:24 29:1,7 15:14 16:2,3 34:4,8,12,18 52:20
25:16 insufficient 34:2 53:9 54:7 36:2,13 37:10 L
31:13 issued 16:4 37:17 39:11,22 language 3:16
intended 7:23 issues 13:3 43:23 44:6,14 17:1 21:19
29:13 intends 47:12 IV 28:10 46:21,25 47:5 33:21 35:5,6
54:6 intent 20:19 47:17,24 48:12 36:17,20 37:2
19:19 interesting 41:3 1:16 2:3,8 52:4 50:18,23 52:1 53:23
50:10 40:16,19,23 judge 24:14,21 K law 3:13,21 5:10
interpretation 36:6 40:11,21 keep 12:22 11:2,5,8,18,22
15:13 light 15:12,23 Martinez 24:7 minutes 52:3 new 15:8,19
16:7,21 34:23 41:5 matter 1:12 11:7 miscarriage 43:6,25
20:6 limit 3:19 17:18 18:11 45:2 7:22 nice 53:22
22:10 40:23 52:17 54:12 misplaced 9:15 Norfolk 4:24,25
25:17 limitation 25:23 56:7 mixed 20:1 normal 41:14
26:3,6 38:5,22 39:5 McGuire 24:19 model 26:16 noscitur 7:13
27:5 limited 4:9 7:20mean 8:17 13:12 28:5 17:17 38:21
14:17 18:7 16:23 18:12 modifies 48:15 45:14
29:13,18 38:11 20:14 26:10 Monday 1:10 notably 45:11
31:2,16 limiting 4:19 29:2 31:21 money 31:7 note 40:9 49:11
32:2 17:4 45:16 34:13 35:24 month 43:3 51:2
37:1,9 line 19:14 41:2 44:15,25 moorings 5:17 noted 45:14
39:12,14 liquor 12:9 45:1 46:7 movable 7:2 47:10 52:25
42:1 list 4:12,22 5:7meaning 8:5,14 move 23:16 notion 31:23
46:15 litigation 19:7 9:10 18:18 MR.SHANM... number 5:21
45:1 55:20 21:11 35:10 29:8 30:14,22 13:6 16:16
52:23 little 20:1 29:7 38:8 40:18 Murphy 21:7 27:15 33:3
41:12 52:13,24 M.S 1:3 39:6 41:7 42:9
38:16 look 17:8 33:9 3:20 N 41:23
43:19 41:4,10,15 means 9:9 14:21 N 2:1,1 3:1 numerous 29:3
42:7 15:13 20:15 name 23:21
40:24 looking 31:4 meant 35:16 narcotics 13:13 O 2:1 3:1
42:22 looks 26:12 40:23 42:2 13:24 objectives 25:20
29:24 46:8 narrower 40:18 42:15,16 49:22
45:5,9,21 loose 14:5 meaty 10:18,21 narrowly 14:8 obscure 17:25
48:3,10 Los 1:16 members 21:15 45:5 54:11 observations
lot 9:18 15:12 35:1 51:15 necessarily 6:19 obtain 41:23
42:13,14 31:17 41:7 mentioned need 3:14 5:1 occurrence
mentioning 26:4 negligence 8:8 odd 41:9
21:8,10 magic 34:22 6:1,4,4,11,13 negligent 7:16 offer 14:1 32:22
22:12 majority 34:8 6:22,23,24,25 7:18 8:1 22:21 37:21
34:10 40:7 50:14 8:20 23:14 Office 24:23
making 36:6,19 mere 38:23 negligently officer 5:9,10,11
36:16 52:7 merger 11:25 50:11 5:12,12,16 6:1
42:7,11 mandates 3:24 mimic 9:8 neighborhood 6:16 10:20
20:12 omitted 21:3 passed 5:23 34:5 4:4,10,13,13 possessing 5:5
25:17,25 27:24 49:9 34:7 4:18 5:15,16 possibility 42:21
28:3 once 23:8 passes 34:17 6:14 14:4,7,10 possible 37:22
30:18 ones 10:21 44:21 passive 15:16 14:13 16:25 38:13,25 42:20
37:2,9 OPA 31:21 16:8 19:20 17:19 21:4 possibly 17:14
38:2,3,9 open 56:1 Patrol 12:1 22:9 25:24 21:4 22:6,8
39:1 opened 13:20 patterns 44:20 26:19 33:16 postal 7:15
40:1,12 opening 13:19 pay 34:22 55:6,7 37:8 38:8,11 12:21 17:20
22:19 peculiar 40:21 40:13,15,24 power 40:2
opinion 34:9 people 24:25 41:6 42:1 PPG 49:3
43:14 49:12 25:3 26:5 43:21,22 45:8 practical 18:10
oral 1:12 2:2 29:20 31:17 45:9,13,16,21 prayer 50:1
47:19 25:11 45:12 32:7,13 33:7 46:7,13,15,19 preceded 5:2
order 16:3 27:10 36:8 39:16,20 46:22 47:12,16 preceding 38:8
50:20 27:19 40:7 41:7 49:4,10 52:23 precisely 47:15
53:24 ordinary 18:22 43:11 phrases 47:14 49:2
6:9 outset 20:20 19:21 picked 29:6 25:1
10:3,8,14 overlap 12:20 perfectly 41:14 place 9:5 11:16 prepared 14:20
overridden 22:5 performed 39:3 plain 25:18 21:18 44:5
override 23:10 performing 42:13 52:13 preparing 24:24
overrule 21:8 18:22 39:3 plaintiff 11:10 25:4
16:7 overseas 13:21 46:6 11:12 present 29:8
18:21,23 owner 15:5 period 44:22,23 plausible 43:20 presented 21:19
22:11,21 O.R 24:19 person 34:14 43:22 45:3 33:21 52:22
24:1 36:9 play 32:2 34:21 preserve 7:23
P personal 30:18 please 3:8 25:14 9:7
27:5,10 P 3:1 50:18 plenary 39:8 preserves 5:25
29:5 PAGE 2:2 personally pluck 8:4 7:8 25:15
paid 51:5,10 23:14 pluralized 18:14 President 21:21
30:23 pantheon 34:25 petition 14:21 point 4:21 10:17 press 14:22
31:1,3 paragraph 54:16 26:2 27:7 pretty 17:9,11
35:14 33:12 36:4 Petitioner 1:4 29:11 34:25 20:23 21:9
39:4,8 parcel 7:18 1:17 2:4,9 36:3 41:3,16 34:14 54:5,7
parse 22:1,7 25:21 31:9 44:16 46:13 prevail 7:13
parsed 21:16 35:14,24 36:19 49:3,16,20 19:1
43:25 part 6:20 53:18 37:3,19 38:21 pointed 54:16 pre-existing
46:6 particular 3:22 39:7 45:11 points 38:1 22:20 23:19
54:1 3:25 5:24 7:18 52:5 policy 25:19 pre-9/11 11:25
20:24 21:13,16 36:12 49:22 51:14,19 30:7
30:5 45:24 48:8 28:18 prison 15:8 39:6
54:9 particularly 19:22 35:7 52:16 prisoner 55:5
providing 8:22 37:14 40:21 receiving/disc... remaining 52:3
56:2 11:2 42:23 44:3,17 15:18 16:9 remedies 30:1
15:6 16:9 3:11,25 5:23 9:24 51:20
32:6 7:12 8:22,25 R recognized 35:3 remedy 22:19
51:1,4,8 9:13,21,23 R 3:1 recognizes 39:8 22:20 23:20,23
10:5,13,16,21 railroad 4:2,15 record 24:11 24:13 25:6
23:17 24:12,22 raises 27:16 22:18 25:6 50:3,6,17,22
30:20,22 31:1 rarely 44:1 48:3 render 16:16
provisions 21:17 reach 14:5 16:2 21:3 33:15 repeat 48:24
29:3 33:1 reached 7:17 referenced 47:10
48:6 read 4:5 5:4,6 references 9:13 reply 31:9 53:1
54:19 35:9 16:25 33:6,11 referred 15:24 35:3,6,8 36:17
24:11,16 25:5 36:3 43:22 refers 28:11 36:23
7:3,4 30:2,10,13,14 45:2,3 54:24 37:1 requirements
11:1,3 31:6 real 6:9 7:4 29:7 refined 44:4 8:21
purposes 20:21 29:7 43:6,9 Reform 55:21 research 41:2,18
15:18,19 29:9 30:7,11 46:8 55:9 refused 47:13 Resendiz-Ponce
21:5 54:4,10 realize 17:9 regard 4:16 16:4
23:14 putting 22:11 20:23 36:19 40:10 residual 3:20
26:16 27:20 really 7:23 48:5,7 4:4,9,13,13,18
35:10 p.m 56:6 14:20 18:12,15 regularly 9:16 5:15 6:14
43:7,7 27:16 33:3 relatively 29:4 14:10 17:18
52:22 Q 38:6 42:20 32:3 28:6 40:24
48:8 39:19 reason 13:18 21:11 25:1 resistance 52:7
quantity 7:11 21:12 24:9 45:16 46:13 resolved 53:6
26:3 27:16,19 45:2,8 46:11 42:16 respectfully
quibble 26:11 rebuttal 2:7 relying 17:11 1:20 2:6 25:12
29:9 33:20,24 served 31:6 54:9 42:23 48:9 spoke 13:12
31:1 scope 9:15 23:15 42:24 43:4,15 situation 6:24 stake 55:10,13
37:12 se 19:15 settlement 54:19 15:5 23:8 43:2 55:15
39:4 sea 4:2 Shanmugam six 20:24 21:2 stamps 31:20
seamen 4:14 1:18 2:5 25:10 small 8:15 39:6 standing 13:8
42:24 searches 40:2 25:11,13 26:1 smaller 29:11 start 28:5 37:7
44:2 searching 13:13 26:9,19,25 sneaking 41:9 started 26:14
second 13:17 27:14,22 28:20 sociis 7:13 17:17 52:11
16:22 51:22 31:25 32:10,14 sole 30:1 starts 14:11
23:4 secondary 12:11 32:18,22 33:23 Solicitor 1:18 state 32:2 43:3
26:18 12:12 34:1,6,20,24 somebody 41:13 stated 21:14
34:5 secretaries 35:18 36:13 someone's 7:19 22:17 24:8
49:1 39:20 37:16 39:13 somewhat 36:11 statement 17:13
6:3,12 see 12:4,7 48:14,22 49:1 35:25 43:2 38:17 39:10
17:22,25 seek 23:9 49:19 50:4,25 sorts 36:18 43:3
21:21 seemingly 40:13 52:2 sounds 13:14 status 12:6 55:4
35:15 seen 33:3 54:8 share 12:20 sources 35:1 55:6,7
56:4 seize 6:9 40:3 sheds 15:12,23 42:11 statute 5:4,6,7
sending 12:18 shorthand 36:24 46:17,21,25 21:22 25:19,22
16:6 26:8 sensible 6:8 9:24 28:7 44:21 24:10 40:11 45:25
50:1 sensibly 8:1 49:4 special 33:15 46:18 47:21,23
37:14,20 sentence 6:17 9:24 16:20 specific 4:24 5:3 49:7,15 50:13
48:17 35:8 36:1,24 26:21 27:17 9:21 28:5 34:2 50:16,20 51:15
10:1,24 series 49:6 32:25 34:25 specifically 6:25 53:4,8 54:18
43:4 suggesting 21:6 take 17:8 26:7 theory 27:20 today 19:23
30:3 28:8 45:21 thing 4:17 34:15 29:12 53:6
7:12 47:5 taken 18:13 things 7:2 11:16 told 15:18
25:24 suing 56:2 talk 22:13 31:19 50:7 top 52:25
30:25 suit 12:5 51:21 talking 25:2 think 4:22 5:13 tort 7:17 24:24
52:9,10 54:20 55:17 33:7,14 42:8 6:18,24 9:11 25:4,16
suits 12:13,15 47:17 14:9,19,23 total 16:19 53:3
20:4 summarize tasks 41:7 18:11,14 19:17 7:16 8:2,8
29:14,16 36:23 tax 5:24 6:9 7:9 21:9 22:12 transmissions
superficially 8:1 8:24 9:4,16 26:9,11,11 7:18
47:17,24 17:18 10:3,7,8,19 28:2 29:3,4,10 transportation
40:20 taxes 38:22,24 54:12 55:1,24 48:4,7 54:14
31:20,22 33:16 telling 44:11 38:20,25 47:7
23:1 31:2 term 5:2,3 7:16 41:13 43:1 28:23 53:20
42:10 43:10 40:12 42:23 32:13,13 turns 31:7
susceptible 34:1 22:15 37:22,25 7:14 8:4 12:9
suspect 34:13,16 24:19 36:9 54:15 24:25 25:3
sweep 38:23 21:9,10,11,17 time 10:22,22 48:12 51:18
42:19 T 45:8 43:4 44:22 typically 21:25
31:5 tail 27:9,12,20 25:13 51:25 times 22:8
42:5,24 vast 40:6 50:14 31:20 worth 55:2 16 53:3,9 54:17
36:20 view 37:5 45:10 23:9,19 18:8 22:8 23:3 1927 33:17
45:10,17 views 34:18,19 We'll 3:3 26:24 27:1 1930s 53:23
47:1,16 virtually 39:8 we're 21:6 22:12 39:18 43:22 1931 42:4
52:16,18 Volstead 53:20 25:2 39:1 47:22 55:3 1940s 31:15
vote 21:16 22:1 we've 4:17 33:3 written 27:23 1946 9:11 32:4
votes 22:5 54:8 wrong 7:25
22:14
25:19 34:20 35:5 win 14:8 19:11 x 1:2,8 2000 30:13
49:22 42:15 49:21 20:2,7 2006 54:17
wish 41:16 Y 2007 1:10
yeah 15:14
16:3 woman 12:4 32:18 22 16:19
year 55:23
wondering years 25:2 32:25 25 2:6
53:11 34:4,6 42:9
23:3,8 28:4 55:17
39:10 warehouses 14:24 15:11 2680(c) 5:21
35:12 18:4,12,13,14 23:17 25:15
$177 54:22 3
33:15 49:21,24 51:13
29:22 $2.50 55:1 31 50:12,16
words 5:9 8:4
55:12 $455 54:22 3723 50:12
5
28:14 52 2:9
10:11 52:11,12 069130 3:4
50:12,17 29:25 36:16 wordy 5:11 6
48:20 work 10:23,24 1 60-year 44:11
16:4 weapons 44:4 worker 4:16 11 28:9 48:6 8
21:7 website's 41:19 52:13 11:08 1:14 3:2 881 9:18,22
28:15 week 43:9 workers 4:3,7 12 54:16 10:12
55:21 weight 35:4 4:10,15 12,000 51:3
12:3
