IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, :
Appellant :
v. : No. 06-969
WISCONSIN RIGHT TO LIFE, INC. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
SENATOR JOHN McCAIN, ET AL., :
Appellants :
v. : No. 06-970
WISCONSIN RIGHT TO LIFE, INC. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, April 25, 2007
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:14 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of
Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Appellant
in No. 06-969.
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C., on behalf of the
Appellants in No. 06-970.
JAMES BOPP, JR., ESQ., Terre Haute, Ind, on behalf of
the Appellee.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., on behalf of the
Appellant in No. 06-969 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., on behalf of the
Appellants in No. 06-970 20
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JAMES BOPP, JR., ESQ.,
On behalf of the Appellee 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., on behalf of the
Appellant in No. 06-969 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:14 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 06-969, Federal Election
Commission versus Wisconsin Right to Life, and Case
06-970, Senator McCain versus Wisconsin Right to Life.
General Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF APPELLANT FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
In McConnell against FEC this Court upheld
Title II's restrictions on electioneering communications
by unions and corporations against facial attack. In
doing so, this Court reviewed a voluminous record and
concluded that the vast majority of the ads that had
been run in previous cycles and came within the
statutory definition could constitutionally be regulated
by Congress. Accordingly, this Court rejected the
overbreadth challenge and upheld the statute on it face.
To be sure, the last time this case was before the Court
the Court made clear that nothing in McConnell
foreclosed an opportunity for as-applied challenges to
the statute and the Court remanded the case for that
purpose. But to be consistent with McConnell's
overbreadth decision, any as-applied challenge cannot
have the effect of calling into question a substantial
percentage of the statute's applications. Yet the
district court's decision below has precisely that
forbidden effect.
There is nothing atypical about the three
ads that are before this Court. Indeed, they closely
resemble the Jane Doe hypothetical ads that this Court
identified at page 127 as the prototype of ads that,
although they took the form of issue ads, nonetheless
were functionally equivalent to express advocacy.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe we were wrong last
time.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, I
don't think you were wrong, and I suppose that obviously
you thought the rest of the Court was wrong in
McConnell, and if the Court wants to reconsider that
decision -- I mean, that's an option the Court can take
in the appropriate case.
I would suggest that this is not the
appropriate case for a number of reasons, not the least
of which is that I think it was briefed in this case
really as something of an afterthought, not as a
principal focus of the briefing. In the McConnell case
this Court, as you well remember, had an unbelievably
exhaustive record before it in making a judgment about
the facial constitutionality of the law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we didn't have a
concrete case such as this one, in which the assertions
of the other side are very appealing as far as the
rights of citizens to band together for an issue ad,
even an issue ad that names somebody who's up for
election within, within 90 days. We didn't that have
appealing case before us. Now that we have it before us
and now that you tell us that this is a typical case,
maybe we were wrong about the overbreadth challenge
before.
GENERAL CLEMENT: With respect, I don't
think you were. And although you didn't have this case
before you, you had many, many concrete cases before you
that are really indistinguishable from this case. You
had the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How are we supposed
to decide whether this case -- if you think it's
important to our resolution, how are we supposed to
decide whether this particular case is typical or not?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I guess it's hard
for me to say how you would decide whether it's typical.
I'm not sure that's the question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think it's very
hard to determine. Therefore, I think it's hard to
determine in the abstract whether its inconsistent with
the conclusion in McConnell that a vast majority of the
cases would not be covered or if it's inconsistent with
it.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Mr. Chief Justice,
let me try to come at it this way, which is to say I
would have thought that if you're not going to overturn
McConnell, you're just going to apply it and say, well,
what kind of as-applied challenges are left, I would
have thought that what you would have in mind is ads
that had an identifiable characteristic that marked them
as being outside of the mainstream and somehow different
from most of the ads. And so --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That gets back to my
same question: How do we know that this is or is not
outside the mainstream. We have just the three ads that
are at issue here. It's not as if we have a survey of
all the ads that are run during the blackout periods in
particular election cycles. How do we tell whether this
is within the mainstream or not?
GENERAL CLEMENT: One strong indicator that
these are in the mainstream is how close they are to the
Jane Doe hypothetical that this Court identified as the
prototype of the kind of ads that, although they took
the form of issue ads, they looked like issue ads, they
really were indistinguishable from and the functional
equivalent of express advocacy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Clement, that
Jane Doe ad was in the record last time. They were
others, weren't there, the issue ads?
GENERAL CLEMENT: There were hundreds. I
mean, as you well remember, there were hundreds of ads
in the record. And this Court was able to draw
conclusions about them both by looking at some of the
specifics, but also looking at the forest, if you will.
One of the things they recognized, for example, is that
these ads weren't turning up uniformly wherever issues
were being debated. These ads turning up in the close
elections, in the close races. And there was --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, the Court
in McConnell used the term, as you've used it this
morning, "vast majority." What is that? Is 70 percent
a vast majority, so that 30 percent of the ads are going
to be outside of that and would be candidates for this
as-applied challenge?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, no, Mr. Chief Justice,
because the Court used "vast majority," and I mean, that
could mean 70 percent, it could mean 80 percent, it
could mean 90 percent. Equally importantly, on page 207
of the opinion, when it was specifically addressing
overbreadth, it made the argument, it made the
conclusion, that both in absolute and relative terms
this statute was not substantially overbroad.
And it seems to me then at a minimum for any
as-applied challenge to be consistent with that
overbreadth determination, it can't have the effect of
opening up the statute wide open such that on a going
forward basis the majority, certainly a substantial
number, percentage, inconsistent with an overbreadth
holding, of the ads that would be run by unions and
corporations within the last 60 days of the election
would qualify for the exception. That just seems
inconsistent with the overbreadth holding.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, did that statement
refer only to issue ads, or did it refer to all ads?
GENERAL CLEMENT: It referred to all ads
that would come within the statutory prohibition.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right, and here we are
dealing with a subset of all ads and that is issue ads.
So that statement doesn't necessarily speak to whether,
you know, a vast majority of all issue ads have to be --
GENERAL CLEMENT: But with respect,
Justice Scalia, there were so many issue ads in the
record in McConnell that if issue ads were an
appropriate category for as-applied challenges, it would
have been impossible for this Court to reject the
overbreadth burden.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know if that's so.
So long as that statement applied to the totality of
ads, many of which were ads just directed at defeating
particular candidates, I don't see how you can see that
we're bound by that statement.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, the
only other obvious candidate that we could carve out
would be express advocacy. And the Court was clear in
footnote 18 of the opinion what percentage that was, 4
to 5 percent. So as to the 95 percent of the ads that
didn't engage in express advocacy, this Court still had
no difficulty concluding that the vast majority of them
were within Congress' conception of the purposes of the4
statute --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Everything that is not
express advocacy is an issue ad? The world is divided
into express advocacy and issue ads?
GENERAL CLEMENT: That's one way to divide
it. You're using the term "issue ad."
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wouldn't divide it that
way. I would think there are a lot of express advocacy
ads. I think there are a lot of non-express advocacy
ads that are not issue ads.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Scalia, you're use
the term "issue ad" as if it's self-defining. I don't
view it that way. And I mean, even Appellee has tried
to narrow it to grassroots lobbying. Now, of course
there's a problem with the grassroots lobbying argument
and that is it was made to this Court in McConnell, and
at that time the nature of the argument wasn't, oh,
grassroots lobbying, that's a sort of idiosyncratic or
atypical application that would give rise to a narrow
as-applied exception.
No, the argument there, and a great
illustration is Appellee's national affiliate, National
Right to Life. At pages 6 and 7 of the reply brief in
McConnell, they argued about grassroots lobbying and
said, boy, this statute applies to grassroots lobbying,
therefore it's substantially overbroad.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're suggesting
the district court decision is not consistent with
McConnell. But it seems that your approach today is
inconsistent with our decision last year that you can
have as-applied challenges. You're suggesting that if
we allow this as-applied challenge to go forward that we
have to facially strike down the section.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Oh, Mr. Chief Justice, I'm
not saying that. My point is that not all as-applied
challenges are created equal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So tell me what one,
an ad that would succeed in an as-applied challenge
looks like, or what the standard would be that we would
apply in a way that you think would not call into
question the decision in McConnell about Section 203?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, let me give you a
couple of as -- I mean, look, my job is to defend the
constitutionality of the statute on its face and as
applied. So I'm not suggesting that any of these
as-applied challenges would necessarily success or I
wouldn't be up here trying to make some argument in
defense of the statute.
But let me give you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What you're saying,
though, is if this as-applied challenge succeeds you're
saying the only way we can do that is if we think that
the statute is facially unconstitutional. I'm just
trying to see if there's a way of --
GENERAL CLEMENT: Sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- approaching this
as-applied challenge in a way that doesn't require us to
revisit that prior --
GENERAL CLEMENT: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't your case, with
me at least, for you to tell us that it is your job to
say that no as-applied challenge will suffice.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well then, let me give you
an --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, that doesn't
inspire me with confidence in what you're telling us.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Let me give you some
inspirational as-applied challenges that would be better
as-applied challenges than this one. A challenge by a
501(c)(3) corporation that has difficulty separating up
a separate segregated fund. Much better as-applied
challenge. The challenge that was brought in the Maine
case that you have before you in another -- in another
petition or another appeal, that was a challenge to an
ad that was run in an unopposed primary. That starts to
sound like a pretty good as-applied challenge.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. There is -- there is a
claim here that there -- that there was difficulty in
setting, setting up a fund in time to do what had to be
done with respect to this issue, which was a distinctive
issue that had come up and they said we didn't have time
to set up a - a - a - a separate PAC that, that would
effectively meet the problem. Why isn't that
distinctive enough?
GENERAL CLEMENT: With respect,
Justice Scalia, it would be a better case if that were
the claim. There's no doubt that appellee has a, a PAC,
a separate segregated fund. To their claim isn't that
they didn't have one. Their claim is it was underfunded
vis a vis what it would cost to fund these ads. But
that itself is clearly a conscious decision, because if
you look at how much money they had in their PAC in
2000, they had 155,000 or something like that in their
PAC. Plenty to pay for this ad. This time around they
had 13,000. Now why is that? It's pretty clear from
the record that they shifted their emphasis not to
getting money for their PAC, but to get money in their
general corporate treasury to fund these ads. And so
they raised 300 million dollars in corporate funds. But
that's not hat doesn't make this a good as-applied
challenge.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can I, can I
understand you to suggest we ought to draw a distinction
in as-applied challenges between a 501(c)(3)
organization and a corporation?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That is not a
501(3)(3) corporation?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think, I think a
501(c)(3) corporation has a much better as-applied
challenge if they can bring it. And that's the
as-applied challenge that's sort of been discussed in
some of the amicus briefs. The problem is Appellee is
not in a position to do that, because they are a
501(c)(4) corporation. Another example of a better
challenge would be the Chief Justice's hypothetical from
the earlier argument which would be a corporation that
runs a series of ads and then wants to continue to run
them during the election cycle.
Well, that's not guilty this case, but it
well could be. The filibuster issue isn't something
that came like a bolt out of the blue on the eve of the
election. Throughout 2003, there were filibusters in
the Senate on a pretty regular basis.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We all -- we all know --
maybe -- I think, I think it's accepted, that the public
only tunes in to the political dialogue shortly before
the election. That's the time in which you -- in which
you reach the public. So the fact that the filibuster
has been going on for a long time is -- I don't think
answers the question as to how speech can be the most
effective.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kennedy, I
don't see -- you may be right that certainly people do
tend to focus on issues in the context of an election.
But I think the record in this case does not bear out
the conclusion that people only care about them at those
times or that groups don't bother running ads at other
times. I mean if you look at the 2005 time frame, the
record reflects that a number of groups, not Appellee,
but a number of groups had issue ads addressing the
filibuster issue. And what's interesting about that to
me is if you look at joint appendix 45 and 46 for the
examples they were able to do it in terms of tag line,
"Earth, call the Senate." And if, if Appellee had run
those same ads which would capture the issue, then they
wouldn't even have come within the statute. So it does
illustrate both that this is an issue that drew enough
public interest to generate ads at different time
periods, not just in the reelection context, and even
when did it that, it was possible to engage on the issue
without coming within the confines of the statute. So
it just seems like --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are, are there frequent
issues -- instances in the political process, do you
think, in which the public runs an ad against a, a
candidate knowing the candidate is probably going to win
anyway, he or she is from a safe district, or it's very
difficult. But they want to run the ad anyway in order
to affect his conduct or her conduct once they're
reelected, so that they'll take a different position, a
second look.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Kennedy --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It -- it seems to me
logically that's possible. I just don't know if that,
if that happens very often.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Kennedy, it's
certainly possible. I don't think it's common, though.
And the reason I say that is just to go back to the
record in McConnell, the one thing the record there made
pretty clear is when you got to the period 60 days
before the election, these ads were not being ran in a
way that would have some random distribution that you
might expect if they were just interested in the issues
or just interested uniformly in all reelections. These
ads were really concentrated in the close districts. I
mean one of the lines that stick out in my mind from the
record is in trying to fund money for these so-called
issue ads, the Club for Growth executives said "we need
money for these issue ads because they make all the
difference in close elections."
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well now -- but -- yes, it
may make the difference in a close election but it is
also, it is also likely to be more effective with regard
to the Senator that you -- whose vote you want on the
issue. Are you, are you going to waste your, waste your
money in, in those districts where the Senator is not
going to vote the way you want no matter what? The
situation you pose is precisely the one where you would
want your issue ad to run.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, if
your point is that there may be an interest in trying to
leverage the upcoming election to get somebody's
attention --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course.
GENERAL CLEMENT: -- I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: To get the Senator's
attention.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Sure.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The Senator who is, who is
at risk is likely, is likely to listen. The Senator who
has a safe seat is not.
GENERAL CLEMENT: No doubt that's true. But
I think it also implicates the, the interests of
Congress in the statute that this Court recognized and
upheld on its face. When, when the whole point is,
we're not just interested in this issue in the abstract,
and we're not running this issue just because there's a
pending vote in Congress; we're interested in running
this ad because it's a pretty effective vehicle both to
defeat this candidate's reelection chances, but if we
don't succeed on that maybe we'll convince him to change
his mind.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't tell which of the
two they had in mind. Whether they wanted the Senator
defeated or they wanted to put enough pressure on the
Senator that he would change his vote with regard to the
filibuster. I would think that the latter is more
likely the motive than the former. And why do you
assume the worst?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well -- I don't know, the
fact that by the time they ran these ads Senator
Feingold voted 20 times out of 20 to filibuster suggests
to me that they probably concluded that the best to get
a Wisconsin Senator who wouldn't filibuster was to
change senators not to change to change Senator
Feingold's mind.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The relevance of this
same group having a poll strongly opposed Feingold every
time he ran for election. It's no secret that they were
opposed to his candidacy.
GENERAL CLEMENT: No. That's absolutely
right, Justice Ginsburg. And obviously the statute
itself in its bright line test doesn't make you get into
those kind of inquiries. But if their claim, if they
come into court and say well, we had a pure heart; we
didn't have an intent to affect the election --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But this is -- this is the
First Amendment. We don't make people guess whether
their speech is going to be allowed by Big Brother or
not. If you are going to cut off the speech, there
ought to be a clear line. Not whether -- whether I, I
had ads against Feingold in the past or whether Feingold
voted 20 times against this or, or half of the time
against this. It seems to me you need a clear First
Amendment line. And you're not giving us any.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Sure I am, Justice Scalia.
I'm giving you the statute, on its face, which couldn't
be clearer. If you want to have as-applied exceptions,
if you want to go down the road, to quote the Chief
Justice in dissent in MCFL, of creating "barely
adumbrated exceptions," you may inject some vagueness.
Now that may be necessary. And there may be as-applied
challenges out there that do the trick without creating
vagueness. But I don't think this is the one. And just
because the first as-applied challenge you see is a
problematic one doesn't mean this aren't better
as-applied challenges out there.
If I could reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
General Clement.
Mr. Waxman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN,
ON BEHALF OF APPELLANTS SENATOR JOHN McCAIN, ET AL.
MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court.
I'd like to -- I'd like to address three
points that came up at the earlier part of the argument.
First of all, I'd like to, I think just with respect
correct a premise of one of Justice Scalia's questions.
Then I would like to address the two questions that I
think I heard the Chief Justice ask, which is how do we
know that the this is an atypical ad, and what would the
standard -- what standard would a court apply in
adjudicating as-applied challenges?
And then finally, assuming there's time
permitting I'd like to address the question of why we
shouldn't revisit McConnell which I think was posed both
by the Chief Justice and by Justice Scalia.
First, as to the premise, Justice Scalia,
and it relates to what the predicate was of the now
famous vast majority reference. I'm quoting from --
it's entirely clear from this Court's opinion and I
believe it's on page 207 that the referent was issue
ads. In fact, what this Court said was the precise
percentage of issue ads that clearly identified a
candidate and were aired during those relatively brief
pre-election time spans but had no electioneering
purpose is a matter of dispute between the parties and
among the judges on the district court. Nevertheless,
the "vast majority" of ads clearly had such a purpose.
Chief Justice ROBERTS: Is that, is that
your test, if it has any electioneering purpose?
MR. WAXMAN: We think the test is whether or
not it is as this Court indicated, I think, whether it's
the functional equivalent of express advocacy. It
doesn't use the magic words but does it have the same
effect, that is, the test that this Court should -- not
this Court, a district court adjudicating an as-applied
challenge that is based on the content of the ad not the
sort of as-applied challenge brought in MCFL or Brown
versus the Socialist Workers Parties that relate to the
nature of the speaker, but one that's based on the
content requires the challenger to show okay, in a
context of a statute that is facially valid and can
constitutionally be applied to the vast majority of ads
that are covered by the definition of electioneering
communications, he needs to come in and show that with
respect to this ad, it has characteristics such that no
reasonable voter could view it as promoting, attacking,
supporting or opposing a candidate.
Chief Justice ROBERTS: Do we, do we usually
place the burden when we're applying strict scrutiny
under the First Amendment on the challenger to prove
that they're allowed to speak, as opposed to the
Government to prove -- to carry the burden that they can
censor the speech?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, you -- I think the rule
is quite clear that you never do that. This strict
scrutiny clearly applies here. But in the context of
a -- the application of a statute that has already been
upheld as facially constitutional in the vast majority
of applications, the Government doesn't have the burden
of reconvincing the district court the -- what the --
the very things that the Supreme Court has already
decided.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That vast majority thing,
is that a -- was that the holding of the case? I mean
--
MR. WAXMAN: It --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Every -- every -- every
word that we it uttered in that prior case is law? I
mean, what if -- am I free to think -- is the lower
court free to think that maybe it is really not the vast
majority? But just because we said vast majority, it is
like writing it into the statute?
MR. WAXMAN: It's -- well, we would have an
awful lot of laws if everything you wrote constituted
law and a holding.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah.
MR. WAXMAN: But that statement and a
statement that follows shortly after it on the following
page were essential to this Court's decision that
applying the strictest possible scrutiny, this law was
very narrowly tailored.
JUSTICE ALITO: But the test as to any ad is
whether any reasonable person could view the ad as -- as
an electioneering ad?
MR. WAXMAN: I think -- well, an
electioneering ad, Justice Alito, I think puts too much
of a burden on it.
JUSTICE ALITO: Any reasonable person could
view it as what?
MR. WAXMAN: I think that what a district
court would say is could a reasonable voter in the
targeted electorate have understood that this ad was in
part promoting, attacking, supporting, or opposing?
The, The acronym is PASO.
JUSTICE ALITO: The same group has long had
ads on a particular issue, and let's say a particular
candidate's position on the issue is very well known to
people who pay attention to public affairs. And let's
say we're in the black out period and now important vote
is coming up on Congress on that very issue. If the
group continues to run the ad on that issue, that -- a
reasonable person could view that as, as saying
something about the election, couldn't it? Couldn't
that person?
MR. WAXMAN: I, I would think so. If it --
JUSTICE ALITO: That would be prohibited?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, it would depend, as your
question suggests, on the context in which the ad is
run. Now I want to make two points with respect to your
inquiry. Number one, as this Court has reiterated,
we're not talking about a ban here. Any one of these
ads can be run so long as it is funded the same way that
the election law requires them all to be funded. That
is, with money that --
JUSTICE ALITO: What do you -- what do you
make -- what do you make of the fact that there are so
many advocacy groups that say this is really
impractical?
MR. WAXMAN: I -- I love it. And I'm going
to give you the ACLU as an example because many -- their
brief is quite powerful. They and the other amici who
provide a growing table of amicus briefs every time this
issue comes up, have never, ever, brought their own
as-applied challenge, although those these groups are
not shy to litigate when they think important rights are
in effect. They have been in the three years since this
Court decided McConnell, and in the year since this
Court made clear what I think we had assumed, which is
this statute is -- it is open season on as-applied
challenges. There have been precisely two as as-applied
challenges brought, both brought by the counsel in this
case. The ACLU's brief which is as representative as
any other says look at these ads that we've been running
about really important issues: The war in Iraq,
Guantanamo, etcetera, etcetera, here is the text of the
ad. If we had put onto a tag line of that ad, please
call Senator so and so and tell him no, we wouldn't be
allowed to do it.
Well, you know what? With one exception
that I'll explain in a minute, in its 90-year history,
the ACLU has never -- way before Bickler was passed,
even outside the 60-day period, they never put that line
on. And you know why? It's because they have pledged
to their members and to the public that they will not
engage in electioneering of any sort. They are
completely nonpartisan and they don't ever want to be
understood to the contrary, and so they never utter
those words.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think it's an
important part of their exercise of First Amendment
rights to petition their senators and congressmen, and
to urge others to -- as in these ads -- contact your
senators, contact your congressmen. Just because the
ACLU doesn't do that doesn't seem particularly pertinent
to me.
MR. WAXMAN: Well, though, I mean, I think
it does demonstrate a few things. First of all, it is
entirely possible, as this Court reiterated in
McConnell, for the exact same message or an equally
effective message to be given at any particular time.
If the ACLU or the National Rifle Association or any of
the other groups that never wants to actually bring an
as-applied challenge but always wants to say oh no, no,
no, this is horrible, wants to run an ad, as this
Court has -- they can establish a separate segregated
fund. And if they come in and convince a court that
that's impractical or impossible, maybe they get an
as-applied challenge.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is this true of the NRA
also? Is it the case that they have never targeted, so
to speak, a particular legislator?
MR. WAXMAN: I don't think anybody would
claim that. Even the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think they would
either. Why pick on the ACLU?
MR. WAXMAN: I'm not -- I wasn't -- I don't
mean to pick on the ACLU. I think highly of both
organizations and many of the amici that are arrayed
against me. The point is that I use the ACLU as an
example because the reason they never put, they never
name a congressman is because they don't want their ads
to be perceived as breaking faith with what they tell
the public.
As for the NRA, the NRA actually did bring a
challenge against the FEC in the D.C. Circuit and said,
"we don't really qualify under MCFL because we take some
corporate funds, but it's de minimis and we think that's
what the Supreme Court had in mind. You know what?
They won. But they can't take yes for an answer. They
want to establish that this law is facially
unconstitutional. And that does go to the point I
think, if I may, as to why -- well, it -- why you
shouldn't reexamine McConnell for first principles.
But let me just say in response to your very
first question, Mr. Chief Justice, that the reason that
we know that this ad is typical is, as this Court
created, articulated the paradigm of an electioneering
communication, the test in the Jane Doe example, and
this case is materially indistinguishable from the Jane
Doe ad. That is one that, quote, "condemns Jane Doe's
record on a particular issue before exhorting viewers to
call Jane Doe." Here we've got an ad that denounced
the, quote, "group of Senators who had filibustered
judicial nominees" -- may I finish my sentence?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Please.
MR. WAXMAN: The only thing that
distinguishes that statement from Jane Doe is knowing
that Senator Feingold was part of that group, and
reasonable listeners in the context of the ad itself and
the web site would certainly have known that. Thank
you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Waxman.
Mr. Bopp?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES BOPP, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLEE
MR. BOPP: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
I think the Government's problem here is
that they are repudiating the very studies and expert
witness testimony that this Court relied upon in
recognizing a distinction between sham issue ads and
genuine issue ads. That was a methodology that the
Government created and this Court relied upon. Now they
are converting genuine issue ads which they identified
in the record through their expert testimony and their
studies. These ads are contained in the joint appendix
on pages 159 to 167.
Their expert based upon their studies
testified that these were genuine issue ads. Now they
refused to state, as they do here, refused to state a
test to determine what's a genuine ad. So we are left
trying to comply with this law and mount the as-applied
challenges that this Court said is available to us to
look at these ads and determine what essential features
there are of these ads. And as I will explain further
later, these are grassroots lobbying ads of the type not
like Jane Doe or yellow tail, but as -- but exactly the
type of the PBA ad, for instance, which we have focused
on, which is on page 166 of the joint appendix. So in
these studies, and these experts, they only looked at
the text of these ads to determine whether they were
genuine or sham.
There was no testimony about the subjective
intent of the speaker. There was no testimony about the
particular groups who ran these ads on whether or not
their PAC was supporting a particular candidate. No
expert in McConnell speculated about the possible effect
of any particular ad to determine whether it was genuine
or sham.
JUSTICE BREYER: How could you tell? I
rather liked the one --
MR. BOPP: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE BREYER: I rather liked the one we
had before about Senator Faircloth, and his ad was,
Senator Faircloth is against the trial lawyers and their
efforts to increase liability laws, so write him. Now,
testimony all over the place. That is the advocacy
candidate ad of the century. And you couldn't possibly
know that without having known that one of the parties
had spent millions trying to paint Faircloth's opponent,
Senator Edwards, as the creature of the trial lawyers,
that anyone -- that anyone in North Carolina knew it.
So they read those words and they understand precisely
what's at stake. They're saying vote against Edwards,
vote for Faircloth. You just tell me how anyone could
know such a thing without looking at the context.
MR. BOPP: There was no testimony in
McConnell that that ad, it -- for those that determined
whether or not it was sham or genuine, that ad was sham
or genuine, there was no testimony, no reference --
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought people offered to
bring in such facts as -- there was a web site address
here. It says, indeed oddly, don't phone the Senator.
Go look at the web site. And if you look at that web
site, it says defeat him, defeat him, defeat him. I
mean, that sounds as if they have defeat in mind.
So certainly, there are about four or five
things which they said to look at outside the four
corners. So I'm not certain what it is in the law that
says that you only look to the four corners. I mean, I
read the opinion below. Did you read it, by the way,
the 1,000-page opinion? I bet you did, the 1,000-page
opinion of the district court?
MR. BOPP: I did indeed.
JUSTICE BREYER: Good. Then you know like I
know, and it took me a week, and it probably took you
less, but you know what that record was like in the
case, don't you?
MR. BOPP: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Thousands and thousands of
pages that as I read it, I drew one conclusion. The one
conclusion was if there's a law, and it's a good law
under the Constitution, if it is, that corporations and
labor unions cannot give money to political campaigns.
And if it is true, as it is true, that what political
campaigns are about now is television. And if it is
true, as it is true, that these are the single lion's
share, the single best way to get somebody defeated or
elected, then if you open the gates and say corporations
and rich givers or whatever can contribute by writing
these ads and paying for them, forget the first two
premises. Forget the rule that says corporations can't
contribute.
Now, I put all that in front of you. It
seems to me what you're asking for is for us to overturn
McConnell and to say either in practice or in theory,
McCain-Feingold campaign finance law is
unconstitutional.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are asking for that
among other things, aren't you?
MR. BOPP: Well, if there's no workable test
--
JUSTICE BREYER: And you are asking for
nothing else.
MR. BOPP: If there is no workable test that
is reasonably ascertainable by small grassroots
organizations that separates genuine issue ads from sham
issue ads -- this Court in Ashcroft said you cannot
throw out the protected speech in order to target
unprotected speech. And the line of argumentation that
the Government is presenting simply ignores the fact
that at least we have a dilemma, we have Congress in
session during the blackout periods, voting on items.
And we have in the First Amendment one of the four
indispensable freedoms, your right to petition the
Government.
JUSTICE BREYER: I agree with you it's
exactly as Justice Scalia said. If we agree with you in
this case, good-bye McCain-Feingold. Maybe we should do
it up front. That's what you advocate. Very well.
Would you address that? Why should this Court only a
year or two after it upholds McCain-Feingold, accept a
position that either in fact or in theory overturns that
case?
MR. BOPP: Because facial upholdings can
only be sustained constitutionally if as-applied
challenges are adequate to protect the protected speech.
And this case demonstrates that that is probably
impossible. It is certainly demonstrating that when the
Government has changed its criteria, it is using
criteria that it rejected previously now to say genuine
issue ads which we asked this Court to rely upon in
their testimony and studies as genuine issue ads, that
they are repudiating those.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you say that those
issue ads are inconsistent with the Government's
position here?
MR. BOPP: Well, because they --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You haven't explained that.
You're just --
MR. BOPP: Yes. The Wisconsin Right to Life
ads are in every material respect indistinguishable from
these six grassroots lobbying ads.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You're taking this because,
in effect on a four corners facial criterion.
MR. BOPP: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But one of the issues in
this case is whether that is an appropriate methodology,
so will you address that?
MR. BOPP: Well, this Court has consistently
rejected the idea of looking to, you know, outside the
message of the speaker such as subjective intent or --
JUSTICE SOUTER: We're not talking about
subjective intent here. We're talking about what
Justice Breyer raised a moment ago.
That is, we are looking for the public
political context in which the ad is run. He gave the
example of the Faircloth Edwards ads. Anyone in North
Carolina knew what they meant. Someone in Idaho or New
Hampshire probably did not, because they did not know
the context.
Your argument, seems to me is, ignore the
context. And my question is, why should we ignore --
why should we do that?
MR. BOPP: Well, that test that has been
articulated by the Government would invite ads to be
prohibited based upon the varied understandings of the
listener, and that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But doesn't any
communication depend upon the understanding of the
listener? Can we even sensibly talk about what a
statement means or an advertisement means without
understanding the context in terms of the listener's
understanding?
MR. BOPP: You do that all the time based
upon the -- the test is, what do the words say? What
does the ad say? What does the speech say?
JUSTICE SOUTER: No. The question is, what
do the words mean.
MR. BOPP: Yes, what do they mean.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And it is impossible to
know what the words mean without knowing the context in
which they are spoken.
JUSTICE SCALIA: When they put these
exhibits, were those exhibits complete with context?
MR. BOPP: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't think so. They
just -- just like the ads were.
MR. BOPP: There were two huge big studies
on -- two in '98 and 2000, and there was absolutely no
testimony about the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: My question is, why should
we ignore the context? How can we tell what something
means without the context?
MR. BOPP: Well, there is relevant context,
such as the person named, the incumbent is a candidate.
That would be a relevant context. It is broadcast
within 60 days of a general election, in which he is a
candidate as well as a voting member of the Senate.
That would be context.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that -- those don't go
to meaning in the sense of, for example, the Faircloth
Edwards example does. Why should we ignore the aspects
of context which determine meaning, i.e., the
understanding that a listener would have?
MR. BOPP: Because it simply -- it would
prohibit all speech because no one would know in advance
whether or not there would be --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You mean the people in
North Carolina were unaware of the Edwards position,
they were unaware of the distinction between Faircloth
and Edwards?
MR. BOPP: I have no idea.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Of course they knew that.
MR. BOPP: I have no idea.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Of course they knew that.
And just as presumably, you knew the position of Senator
Feingold in these advertisements, and the people in the
state knew because of your other -- because of your
other public statements.
MR. BOPP: Because of one or two press
releases?
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why should those things be
ignored?
MR. BOPP: There's absolutely no evidence
that anyone in Wisconsin knew his position on the
filibuster.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You think they're dumb?
MR. BOPP: No.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You have a web site. You
have a web site that calls their attention, and you
think nobody's going to it?
MR. BOPP: But we can't run the ads, we
can't --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Nobody's paying attention
to what the Senator is doing?
MR. BOPP: If we can't run the ads, we can't
draw peoples attention to the web site.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You think the only source
of information about Senator Feingold is your
advertisement?
MR. BOPP: No, but I don't --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then if your advertisement
is not the sole source of information, then why do you
assume that no one in Wisconsin knows what the senator
has been doing when he votes.
MR. BOPP: Look, polls show that a majority
of the people don't even know who the Vice President of
the United States is. So to suggest that they know a
particular position --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So your position is that we
ignore context because no one -- because the voters
aren't smart enough to have a context?
MR. BOPP: No, that we be allowed to speak
so we can give that information to the voters.
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's, that's the
point, because where I get into my chain. You have an
argument. I'm not denying that. I understand it. But
it's sort for me deja vu all over again. We've heard
it.
MR. BOPP: Yes, but you said --
JUSTICE BREYER: And what happened before --
either you can distinguish this, which I don't see how
frankly, or you're back into the chain, and if you want
to say one more thing about the chain, I didn't draw it
to the final ending there, if I take most of the ads --
and that's what that Kollar-Kotelly opinion is about.
That's what that 1,000-page record is about. That's
what the 10,000 pages of testimony were about. That's
what McCain-Feingold was about, and all those witnesses.
They said in today's world these are the kinds of ads
people run just to defeat people. And then they said,
moreover, most of the campaign money goes on them. And
then they said, moreover, if you let corporations and
labor unions contribute to these, well, then they can
contribute to the campaign. And the only thing I left
out before was, if you're prepared to say the
Constitution the Constitution requires us to let
corporations and unions buy these kinds of ads, well,
how could it be constitutional to have a statute that
forbids them to contribute directly to the candidate,
something that's been in existence only since I guess
1904? But how could that be constitutional if they can
just give this money directly? Why can't they give this
same money to the candidate?
MR. BOPP: Well, because of your decision in
Beaumont, which creates a distinction between
contributions and independent speech, and this is
independent speech.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's pretty easy to tell
whether you're giving money to the money to the
candidate or not, isn't it?
MR. BOPP: Very readily.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a fairly bright line
that you don't have to worry about stepping over the
wrong side of it.
MR. BOPP: That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Whereas this one,
especially if you adopt a context determination that
requires a 1,000-page district court opinion, who knows.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right? I mean,
1,000 is what we have here, is we happen to have three
criteria, absolutely clear: Does it mix the candidate?
Does it run within 30 or 60 days before the election?
And is it targeted to an electorate? Now, that's clear.
Now, if you're prepared to say that's
unclear, I don't understand it, you don't need a
1,000-page record about that. All you need is a record
where you have your organization to come in and show how
yours is significant different from the mine run of
cases. What's the problem?
MR. BOPP: The problem is you're not giving
force to the other conclusion of all three district
court judges that there were genuine issue ads.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, yes. Yes, I see you
could distinguish.
MR. BOPP: And that these ads, you know,
fall under a different line of cases. First National
Bank versus Bellotti has held that corporate efforts to
influence Legislative and Executive Branch officials --
-
JUSTICE STEVENS: Are you trying to convince
us the purpose of these ads was to convince Senator
Feingold to change his position on filibusters?
MR. BOPP: It was indeed. It was to lobby
him about the upcoming vote.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you think they had much
chance? Do you think that was a realistic goal?
MR. BOPP: Yes, as it turns out, because in
2006 we ran the same sort of anti-filibuster ads and
Senator Kohl, now up for reelection, changed his
position on the filibuster. So these things happen. In
other words, people -- people's positions are affected
by grassroots lobbying, and at least people should have
the opportunity to engage in grassroots lobbying.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that called democracy?
MR. BOPP: We are hopeful, Your Honor. And
that our part -- our system of self government is based
upon the self- government of the people and their
ability to influence the actions of governmental
officials.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Bopp, your
argument that McConnell's facial holding should be
overturned appears on page 62 of your brief. I take it
you have at least 61 page arguing that your as-applied
challenge can succeed without overturning McConnell's
position?
MR. BOPP: Yes. Yes, we have, which would
require the adoption of a reasonably ascertainable test,
one that people would not be subject to three years of
litigation, scorched earth litigation tactics, intrusive
discovery into every aspect of their organization for
decades. It would have to be clear, simple, and
objective and be able to be implemented on short notice,
because things pop up, like the filibuster of a Supreme
Court nominee in January of 2006.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's your test? Their
test is fuzzy, I agree with you. What's yours? Do you
have a clear one that does not invalidate the whole
statute?
MR. BOPP: Well, based on their evidence in
McConnell and these grassroots, and these genuine issue
ads, I think there are three key or essential features
of those ads that we are satisfied would protect
grassroots lobbying and genuine issue ads. The first is
based upon the content of the communication, they focus
on a current legislative matter, take a position on it,
urge people to contact them, their congressmen and
senators, to take a particular action or position.
Secondly --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That says what's good.
What is your test for what's bad?
MR. BOPP: Second, the ads do not mention an
election, candidacy, political party, challenger, or the
official character, qualifications, or fitness for
office. That was the key link the district court found,
that these ads not, as Buckley said -- and of course
McConnell was litigated under Buckley -- is that they
were not unambiguously candidate- related.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's -- give us the third
one. I want to go back to --
MR. BOPP: The third one is, as long as the
ad meets this pattern, that the fact that the ad -- ours
does not -- but the fact that the ad mentions the name,
the position of a public official on an issue and
praises or criticizes him or her for that does not
affect its genuineness.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. May I go back to
your second criterion? It seems to me your second
criterion is simply the injection of magic words back
again. You're saying if we don't use certain magic
words it's okay. That's a magic words test.
You're not looking for any particular word.
You're looking for the meaning and breadth of the, of
the item.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, but you said if we
don't mention the election and the candidacy of this
person for this election, that is one of the
sufficient -- one of the conditions with the other three
which would be sufficient to justify the, on First
Amendment grounds, justify running the ad. That seems
to me simply to be reinjecting magic words in a negative
form.
MR. BOPP: Well, in a much more expansive
and comprehensive test which looks to three features of
the ad. But in any event, you look at the words all the
time. Is it fighting words? You look at what are the
words, what are they saying?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We look at fighting words
in a context.
MR. BOPP: And I think we have a relatively
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's one thing to say
something in a bikers bar and another thing in the --
MR. BOPP: And I think we have a relevant
context.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there many cases where
we look just at the words?
MR. BOPP: Well, you certainly have in --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You can't shout "Fire" in
a crowded theater; it has to be a crowded theater.
MR. BOPP: Well, relevant context, that
there is an election upcoming, so it's within 60 days.
The person's a candidate. These are relevant -- and for
that matter, whether the is a current Legislative Branch
matter or likely to arise in the near future.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Bopp, you do not have
to establish, do you, that the test you propose will get
at every bad ad, that it will be sure to get at every ad
that is not a genuine issue ad?
Is that the burden on you?
MR. BOPP: I don't believe so, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought when we're
dealing with the first amendment we give wide scope to
the principle that it is, it is better to allow, you
know, some bad speech than it is, in the effort to get
rid of that bad speech, to eliminate any good speech
that is justified.
So even if there is something that might
sneak through that does achieve what Congress didn't
want to achieve, the answer in the First Amendment is
that's too bad. There's some stuff you just can't get
at. There's a lot of bad speech that is allowed all the
time because you can't get at it without suppressing the
good speech.
MR. BOPP: I think that's the standard.
JUSTICE BREYER: In fact this isn't the
First Amendment totally on one side. Isn't this, isn't
this a case where the courts held that there are very
significant constitutional interests on both sides of
the equation, which is what makes this kind of thing
difficult. Isn't that so?
MR. BOPP: And so giving meaning to one side
was upholding it facially. Now your job is to give
meaning to the other side, which is genuine issue ads
that are to be protected as applied.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm just suggesting why a
pure First Amendment test doesn't necessarily answer the
question and why we've upheld McCain-Feingold.
MR. BOPP: But even if you use balancing,
you've already used it. You upheld it on its face,
because you said the vast majority were shams. At the
same time, you said there were genuine issue ads. You
reserved the question of whether or not the interest is
sufficient, the governmental interest is sufficient, to
prohibit genuine issue ads in footnote 88. You know,
they refuse to give the test. They refuse to tell us
what is the standard.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But your test, as I
understand it, is the test to determine whether you fall
within this sort of heartland of the statute which we
upheld on facial challenge. Yours is a test where
exclusion from the facial rule; isn't that correct?
That's -- that was why you were giving the answer to
Justice Scalia that you gave?
MR. BOPP: I did --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What you're saying: I have
three criteria and if I satisfy those criteria, then
the, then the facial validity of the statute is not an
answer to my claim. That's basically what you're
saying.
MR. BOPP: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And of course, if you
success in that you're saying, okay, the Government then
has the burden of satisfying strict scrutiny. That's
the reason for your test, isn't it, to get you out of
McCain-Feingold -- I mean, to get you out of the holding
in McConnell?
MR. BOPP: We're not trying to get out of
the holding in McConnell.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Sure. You're saying this
is an applied challenge which is different in some
relevant respects, so that the facial holding in
McConnell shouldn't apply to us, it shouldn't bar,
shouldn't justify the Government barring our ad. Isn't
that your logic?
JUSTICE SCALIA: You could say yes to that,
I think.
MR. BOPP: Thank you.
But the -- we're trying to -- actually --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You want to go further than
that, I know. But that's your first step.
MR. BOPP: No, our first --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's what you were
getting at.
MR. BOPP: Our first step is we want to give
meaning to the promise of McConnell that there were
genuine issue ads that could be protected by as-applied
challenge.
JUSTICE SOUTER: The way to do that is say,
there's something different about my case from the case
which was taken as typical in upholding statute against
facial challenge.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He fears the Greeks even
when they bear gifts.
(Laughter.)
MR. BOPP: Yes, we have. We have
demonstrated how these ads are materially identical to
the genuine issue ads this Government presented to this
Court and you relied upon that representation. We have
demonstrated why and their experts have agreed that the
Yellowtail ad, the Jane Doe ad, is completely different
than our ad. Their experts say that our ads are
grassroots lobbying ads.
Now, we are faced with a change in position
of the Government. I mean, in McConnell the Government
said naming a candidate is critical. Now their experts
say it doesn't matter if you name a candidate or not,
any genuine issue, any ad, can influence an election if
you mention an issue.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But your, your principle
concern at this point is getting yourself out from the
holding of McConnell, in other words, by saying we have
a case which was not the typical case in McConnell,
that's why it's an as-applied challenge and that's why
this is a new ball game. And I take it your principle
argument for that in criticizing the Government's
position is that the Government didn't use to say that
there's something significant or something insignificant
about naming the candidate, and now they do.
That it seems to me -- if I understand your
argument -- goes back to this context argument or not.
Because the argument that's being made is, in context we
know perfectly well what's going on.
MR. BOPP: I just think that misrepresents
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: You're saying you shouldn't
look at the context.
MR. BOPP: I think that simply misstates the
effect of this ad. If anybody wanted to influence an
election with this ad, this was the most remote,
attenuated, speculative way.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then why did you refer them
to the web site? There's nothing remote or speculative
about what happens when they look at the web site.
MR. BOPP: And that has been also misstated
in the briefing here. There was absolutely nothing on
the web site about anything other than the filibuster
issue. There was nothing about the PAC or what the PAC
was doing. It was all about the filibuster.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Anything about Senator
Feingold?
MR. BOPP: Well, of course. It was about
Senator Feingold's position. It was, the one change --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Did the web site indicate
the -- the Wisconsin Right to Life's position on Senator
Feingold?
MR. BOPP: Only on the filibuster, yes. It
identified -- the ads don't, the website does --
identified the position of Senator Feingold on the
filibuster and criticizes him for that.
Now, if that is to be -- you know, number
one, the whole First Amendment was adopted to allow --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's part of the context,
isn't it? In other words, you're supplying some --
MR. BOPP: No.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- context for the ad.
You're saying, if you want to know the context in which
we're saying this, look at the website.
MR. BOPP: No. We don't believe that that's
part of the context.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You don't believe that's
what you are doing.
MR. BOPP: But see, the FEC doesn't even
regulate what's on the Internet. You can do anything
you want on the Internet
JUSTICE SOUTER: The FEC doesn't regulate
anything else in the broader political context except
what the statute allows. My point is, it seems to me
you are referring to context. Why therefore is it
illegitimate for a court to look to context?
MR. BOPP: We have not referred to context.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. BOPP: We are not importing in our
analysis --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask a rather basic
question? Do you agree that the Constitution permits
Congress to pass a statute that prohibits your using
electioneering ads that use magic words?
MR. BOPP: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would it also prohibit you
from using -- urging everyone to look to a web site that
used the same magic words?
MR. BOPP: Would it?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
MR. BOPP: Perhaps, yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So that if your web site
used the magic words, then your ads would be -- could be
regulated.
MR. BOPP: You're talking about the
constitutionality of the Federal statute that
incorporates the cited to website. You know, perhaps.
But that's much different than a constitutional standard
on what this Court is going to look to. We have no
notice of this.
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but you would agree
the statute could be validly applied to an ad that says
look at this website, and the web site then uses the
magic words?
MR. BOPP: Perhaps. I'm not certain of
that. And I'm sorry that I don't have a considered
response to that question.
But that is much different than what we are
faced with. We are faced with ad hoc criteria that is
being used by the Government. They reject examining
subjective intent because it's unworkable. Now they
want to examine subjective intent. They disclaim to
this Court and Justice Scalia's question about, well,
anything that might influence an election, can we
regulate it? They said no. Well now they are claiming
that, that anything that might influence an election --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, do you believe that
the First Amendment would not be violated by an ad that
was the functional equivalent of one that contained
magic words?
MR. BOPP: Well, I disagree with that
holding of --
JUSTICE STEVENS: There might be an
upholdable constitutional difference between two ads
that convey the same message.
MR. BOPP: Well, I don't believe they have
the same functional --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If they're the functional
equivalent, by hypothesis, they convey the same message.
MR. BOPP: Well, Your Honor, I lost that
argument in this Court. So you know, I'm not trying to
relitigate McConnell. I'm trying to give meaning to
McConnell. I mean, you talked about genuine issue, as
this Court did. Their experts identified genuine issue
ads. They said, as this Court said in Wisconsin Right
to Life I, as-applied challenges can be brought. And so
we're trying to give meaning to that, that there --
JUSTICE BREYER: The theory is that the ad
itself on the web site, in your opinion, would have been
okay? You turn to the web site three months before the
election. It says 16 times out of 16 in the past two
years, Feingold and Kohl have voted to filibuster
certain of the President's nominees. Feingold and Kohl
are putting politics into the court system, creating
gridlock and costing taxpayers money. Now three months
before the election you put -- write that in your ad.
Now, is that in your opinion constitutionally protected,
gets it out of McCain-Feingold?
MR. BOPP: In the -- as a broadcast ad?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. What you did, suppose
instead of what you ran, you know, in a broadcast ad.
MR. BOPP: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: You think that is
protected?
MR. BOPP: Yes. Because whether you praise
or criticize a Government official's action in office
has nothing to do with whether it falls under the First
Amendment's protection of petitioning. In fact that's
what, you know, the kind of information -- we didn't do
that. But that's the kind of information that's very
relevant to the constituent's effort to petition.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Bopp.
General Clement, you have two minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF APPELLANT FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
GENERAL CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice. Just a few points in rebuttal. First, I would
like to stress the virtue of as-applied challenges. You
might wonder in the abstract, wasn't there a problem
with the statute that applies to a group running a
series of ads and then one of them falls in the period.
But then you look at an as-applied challenge and you see
that didn't happen here. In fact, the opposite did.
This issue was percolating since March of 2003. These
ads were run some 500 days after the first filibuster
vote. Both before and after Senator Feingold's
reelection cycle, they addressed this --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does that go to their
meaning or to the intent of -- is that what governs?
It's the intent of the person who puts it on? I thought
-- I thought you were focusing on the meaning of it,
what it conveys to the public.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Scalia, if you're
looking for an as-applied challenge that's going to
identify a genuine issue ad, I would think that it would
go somewhat to intent. And I would think the
reason that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's new to me. I
thought you were asking us to look at the meaning. What
does it mean to the --
GENERAL CLEMENT: No. Our position is
slightly different than intervenors on that point. And
I think the reason that the series of ads hypothetical
is beguiling is because it suggests that because they
run the same issue ad all the time, they must be
interested in the issue, not the election, and the
opposite is true here.
They run ads about this issue, they run --
they have communications about this issue outside of the
period of Senator Feingold's reelection. They don't
rely on broadcast ads. They rely on e-alerts when it's
not during the election cycle. But when it's during the
election cycle, all of a sudden they start running
broadcast ads. And I think it shows what the timing
suggests. The timing here suggests an intent to
influence the election, not an intent to engage on the
issue.
JUSTICE ALITO: How long will the blackout
period be during the upcoming year for the presidential
candidates?
MR. BOPP: Well, I think that in various
places it will be 30 days before the primary and then
obviously 60 days before the general.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It could be as long as 200
days; isn't that correct.
MR. BOPP: Not in any one place. And if
there's an argument, though, that because of the way the
various broadcast media affect Manchester, New
Hampshire, that's a great as-applied challenge. The
virtue of as-applied challenges are that you get a
concrete record and you don't have to speculate, wow,
you know, is it possible to address the filibuster --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You have to speculate
before you try to put the ad on.
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, you don't.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You have to speculate
whether the Court is going to say well, since you're in
the zone of three different radio stations or television
stations, a different rule applies. Doesn't the person
who wants to speak have to speculate, roll the dice?
GENERAL CLEMENT: No, they don't, Justice
Scalia, and one of the arguments that's made to try to
suggest that there should be a reconsideration of
McConnell is, as-applied checks don't work. How can you
say that? In the two cases that have been brought,
there were preliminary injunction proceedings that were
completed before the blackout period began. So in that
case, bring your preliminary injunction if you have a
question.
But the virtue of as-applied challenges, and
the last thing I'll say, is the virtue of as-applied
challenges, they're not all created equal. Just because
this as-applied challenge fails doesn't mean the statute
isn't open to them.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:16 a.m., the case in the
above-titled action was submitted.)
address 20:9,13 advance 36:24 47:22 argued 10:15
33:13 34:16 35:14 38:8,10 anti-filibuster argument 1:16
addressed 56:10 37:10 anybody 27:3 3:8 8:2 10:6,8
36:7 adequate 33:19 9:20,24,25 16:1 28:21 35:4
40:20 adjudicating 21:13 24:23 appeal 12:15 38:25 42:10
20:17 21:16 30:14 appealing 5:5,9 50:4,9,9,10
56:2 adopted 51:15 affairs 24:4 1:18 57:25
27:6 7:1,6,8,13,14 4:23 Appellants 1:9 arrayed 27:9
7:19 8:11,16 ago 34:22 1:23 2:7 20:6 articulated 28:3
59:6 10:1,1 13:6,14 agreed 49:13 28:22 Ashcroft 32:25
10:3 11:4 16:21,22 18:14 Alito 23:13,17 29:8,21 32:20 56:22
13:10 19:10 21:2,3,8 23:19 24:1,12 application aspect 42:19
16:1 21:23 24:2,18 24:21 57:16 10:10 22:13 aspects 36:20
18:2 25:14 26:8 allow 10:23 46:2 applications 4:3 assertions 5:4
21:17 27:12 29:3,4,6 51:15 22:15 Association
23:13,14 29:8,11,16,17 allowed 19:7 applied 9:5 26:17
29:18,23 30:2 22:7 25:19 11:11 21:23 assume 18:12
25:17 32:8,24,25 38:21 46:10 46:23 48:9 38:12
26:20 33:24,25 34:3 allows 52:6 53:9 assumed 25:9
34:9,10,25 amendment applies 10:16 assuming 20:18
30:5 35:8 36:5 19:6,13 22:6 22:12 56:3 as-applied 3:23
37:25 38:4 26:6 33:6 58:12 4:1 6:10 7:21
34:24 39:8,13,21 44:18 46:1,8 apply 6:9 11:6 8:6 9:1 10:11
43:25,25 41:6,9,15,22 46:15,25 51:15 20:16 48:11 10:22,23 11:1
43:5,6,7,15,19 53:25 applying 22:5 11:4,12,17,23
46:22 47:5,8 Amendment's 23:11 12:3,9,10,12
49:14,14 48:25 49:10,11 55:15 approach 10:20 12:17 13:16,20
50:17 49:15,16 51:11 amici 25:2 27:9 approaching 14:1,3 19:16
51:19 52:16,25 54:6 amicus 14:4 11:22 19:20,23,25
54:17 56:4,8 25:3 appropriate 20:17 21:16,18
beguiling 57:2 52:21,23 53:2 C censor 22:9
29:14 behalf 1:20,22 53:12 54:3,8 C 2:1 3:1 century 30:15
42:12 1:24 2:3,6,10 54:12 55:6,9 call 11:6 15:11 certain 31:11
50:2 2:12 3:9 20:6 55:12,19 57:19 25:18 28:8 44:8 53:12
56:1,5 28:22 55:23 57:24 called 42:3 54:25
58:2,3 believe 21:1 bother 15:4 calling 4:2 certainly 8:9
45:24 51:22,24 bound 9:8 calls 37:23 14:25 16:10
53:24 54:8 boy 10:16 campaign 32:14 28:16 31:9
bet 31:14 breadth 44:11 32:3 39:7
24:4 13:2 14:1,6 Breyer 30:7,10 43:16 44:14 4:1 5:11 7:21
38:2,5 19:24 46:2 31:3,17,22 candidate 9:10 8:6 10:23 11:4
big 19:7 36:6 34:22 38:23 22:3 30:3,15 12:10,13,13,15
20:15 black 24:5 41:7 46:14,24 40:2,9,20 14:2,3,7 19:23
blue 14:13 briefed 4:22 9:7 57:18 48:9 49:1,5
43:23 30:9,24 31:16 bright 19:1 care 15:3 21:21 22:6
50:9 31:21 32:18,22 40:11 Carolina 30:19 43:16
34:13,17 35:7 27:15 31:4 carry 22:8 6:10 9:1 10:22
35:9,17 45:3,7,11,14 Brown 21:18 33:20 34:15 18:18,18,18
43:3,8 45:19,24 46:13 Buckley 43:19 46:16 49:3,3 41:16 49:17
closely 4:7 congressman contribute 32:7 28:2,24 29:2,5
6:6,15 12:22 15:13 26:7,9 43:10 contributions 34:17 40:17
10:18 19:3 21:25 conscious 13:7 40:5 41:6 42:23
11:3,16 26:22 41:1 considered converting 29:6 43:18 49:12
13:18,23 comes 25:4 53:13 convey 54:7,11 52:8 53:6,20
19:17 coming 15:18 consistent 3:25 conveys 56:15 54:13,16,17
24:6 8:6 10:19 convince 18:4 55:1 58:10
22:4 26:5 Commission 1:3 consistently 26:22 41:14,15 courts 46:16
3:5,9 55:23 34:17 corners 31:11 court's 4:4
55:19,24 common 16:10 constituent's 31:12 34:12 20:25 23:10
communication 55:18 corporate 13:14 covered 6:4
19:2 57:7 constitutional 14:1,6,8 creates 40:4
47:22 complete 36:2 22:14 39:22,25 corporations creating 19:18
16:13 49:14 constitutionali... 39:16,21 criteria 33:22,23
20:25 comply 29:14 5:2 11:10 53:3 correct 20:12 40:20 47:20,20
25:9 comprehensive constitutionally 47:15 57:23 53:16
42:20 44:22 3:18 21:23 cost 13:6 criterion 34:12
concentrated 33:18 55:4 costing 55:2 44:6,7
22:12 concern 49:24 contained 29:8 couple 11:9 criticizes 44:3
3:7,8,10 18:16 content 21:17,21 17:12 37:6,8 criticizing 50:4
5:13,22 concluding 9:15 43:8 43:19 47:25 crowded 45:13
7:4,7,22 conclusion 6:3 context 15:1,16 51:5 45:13
9:9,21 8:3 15:3 31:23 21:22 22:12 court 1:1,16 current 43:9
11:8 31:24 41:5 24:14 28:15 3:11,12,15,19 45:17
12:4 conclusions 7:10 30:23 34:24 3:21,22,24 4:7 cut 19:8
13:1,22 concrete 5:4,15 35:3,5,15,24 4:8,16,17,18 cycle 14:10
14:24 58:4 36:2,10,11,12 4:25 6:24 7:9 56:10 57:10,11
17:8,13 condemns 28:6 36:14,17,21 7:16,23 9:2,11 cycles 3:17 6:20
18:13 conditions 44:16 38:19,20 40:16 9:14 10:7,19
19:14 conduct 16:2,2 45:2,8,14 50:9 17:22 19:3 D
55:20,22 confidence 12:7 50:10,15 51:16 20:8,16 21:2,7 D 1:19 2:3,12
56:16,24 confines 15:18 51:19,20,23 21:12,15,16,16 3:1,8 55:22
Congress 3:19 52:5,7,8,9 22:16,17 23:1 days 5:8 8:12
16:18,23 18:1 24:6 33:4 continues 24:7 25:8,9 26:14 40:21 45:15
57:20,21 30:25 28:4,6,8,13 24:9,19 36:15 examine 53:19
dialogue 14:18 29:19 49:14 40:21 43:16 examining
16:25 54:6 38:13 51:2,25 53:21,23 54:23 14:6 25:1
49:3,14 53:5 draw 7:9 13:19 3:13 21:5,10 exception 8:13
58:11,12 drew 15:14 26:1 28:3 exceptions
10:19,21 46:19 dumb 37:20 elections 7:15 exclusion 47:15
13:7 difficulty 9:15 D.C 1:13,20,22 16:23 Executive 41:12
40:3 12:11,19 27:16 electorate 23:23 executives 16:21
39:14 directed 9:6 E eliminate 46:4 exhaustive 5:1
40:1 earlier 14:8 engage 9:14 exhorting 28:7
dispute 21:6 Edwards 30:18 equal 11:2 58:25 30:4
37:3 40:4 21:15 25:7 equivalent 4:11 explain 25:21
12:25 50:17 54:11 explained 34:6
41:8 17:1 18:2 ESQ 1:19,22,24 9:11,14,19,20
28:13 effectively 12:24 essential 23:10 e-alerts 57:9
10:19 15:25 either 27:6 ET 1:8 20:6 17:23 19:15
23:21 31:15 39:5 25:16 faced 49:17
40:16 43:18 election 1:3 3:4 event 44:23 facial 3:14 5:2
17:4 8:12 14:10,14 43:3 42:10 47:14,15
36:21 divide 9:21,23 14:19 15:1 exact 26:15 47:21 48:10
divided 9:19 16:14,25 17:10 exactly 29:19 49:5
21:22 filibusters 14:14 front 32:11 49:11,21 54:15 42:7 47:7
27:21 41:16 33:12 54:16 56:18 Government's
final 39:8 functional 7:2 genuineness 28:25 34:3
24:22 finance 32:14 54:10 getting 13:13 governs 56:12
43:25 finish 28:10 functionally 48:22 49:24 grassroots 10:5
46:14 Fire 45:12 4:11 gifts 49:7 10:6,9,15,16
56:6 first 3:4 19:6,12 fund 12:12,20 Ginsburg 7:4 29:18 32:23
34:25 32:8 33:6 funds 13:15 25:1 32:1 Greeks 49:6
37:3 41:10 43:7 27:18 38:22 40:1,1 gridlock 55:2
46:15,25 48:19 48:18 47:9 48:23 group 18:21
44:22 focusing 56:14 55:22 31:6 36:18 25:16
follows 23:9 3:10 4:14 5:13 48:18 56:11,19 39:24
53:3 55:23 47:8 7:7,22 8:17,23 goes 39:15 50:9
19:10,10 forbids 39:23 11:8,21,25 8:8 14:21 half 19:11
37:10 force 41:5 12:4,8 13:1,14 15:24 17:3,5 Hampshire 35:2
41:16 foreclosed 3:23 13:22,25 14:24 19:7,8 24:25 58:2
forest 7:11 16:5,9 17:8,13 37:24 50:11 happen 40:19
forget 32:8,9 17:16,20 18:13 53:6 56:17 41:24 56:6
56:9 57:8 44:20 20:3 36:15 good 12:17 happens 16:8
forward 8:9 56:24 57:21 43:13 46:4,12 hard 5:22 6:1,1
15:8 found 43:18 generate 15:15 government Haute 1:24
four 31:9,10,12 genuine 29:4,6 22:8,15 29:5 hear 3:3
41:24 33:6 34:12 29:11,13,24 33:3,8,22 35:8 heard 20:14
50:25 frame 15:5 30:5 31:1,2 42:5,6 48:1,12 39:1
frankly 39:6 32:24 33:23,25 49:11,18,18 heart 19:3
56:8 free 22:25 23:1 41:6 43:4,7 50:5 53:17 heartland 47:13
freedoms 33:7 45:22 46:22 55:13 held 41:11 46:16
23:6 35:23 17:9 47:6,7 7:5 28:4,5,6,8 39:4 40:7,11
48:4,7 impractical interested 16:16 28:13 29:19 40:15,18 41:7
49:25 24:24 26:23 16:17 17:24 49:14 41:14,19 42:3
inconsistent 6:2 18:1 57:4 January 42:23 42:9,24 43:13
54:12 10:21 34:3 interests 17:21 46:21 45:1,5,9,12,19
Ind 1:24 invalidate 43:1 judges 21:7 41:6 51:7,16,19,24
14:7 57:1 40:5,6 Iraq 25:15 judicial 28:10 52:22,24 53:8
33:7 9:22 10:1,3 8:15,19,24 9:4 57:16,22 58:6
21:3 29:6 influence 41:12 17:3,7,24,25 12:6,18 13:2 justify 44:17,18
54:16 42:7 49:21 21:1,3 24:2,3,6 13:18,23 14:16 48:12
information 32:24,25 33:24 17:8,12,14,17 Kennedy 14:16
38:19 55:16,17 41:6 43:4,7 19:5,14,18 16:5,6,9 42:3
insignificant 57:7,15 26:25 27:5 knew 30:19 35:1
inspirational 15:22 16:16 30:7,10 31:3 know 6:16 8:22
25:6,15 instance 29:20 items 33:5 34:2,6,11,14 25:20,24 27:19
instances 15:22 i.e 36:21 34:20,22 35:11 28:2 30:16,23
34:19,21 53:18 J 36:4,9,18 37:1 34:18 35:2,24
38:15,16 lion's 32:4 mainstream 26:12 27:8 40:1,2,8,8 55:2
46:3 47:8 listen 17:18 6:13,17,21,23 31:8,12 35:21 months 54:22
50:11 listener 35:10,13 majority 3:16 35:22,24 37:1 55:2
53:4 36:22 6:3 7:18,19,23 40:18 48:4 morning 3:4
55:8,16 listeners 28:15 8:9,22 9:15 49:18 54:15 7:18
listener's 35:15 20:24 21:8,23 56:23 59:1 motive 18:11
35:24 litigated 43:20 23:2 38:14 36:21 44:11
30:16 42:18 making 5:1 54:14,19 56:12 N 2:1,1 3:1
lobbying 10:5,6 58:1 means 35:14,14 49:20
29:18 34:10 marked 6:12 meant 35:1 names 5:7
49:16 materially 28:5 meet 12:24 50:7
24:19 look 11:9 13:8 3:6 20:6 mentions 44:1 nature 10:8
29:14 15:5,9 16:4 McCain-Fein... message 26:15 21:20
25:14 29:16 32:14 33:11,14 26:16 34:19 near 45:18
31:6,6,10,12 39:12 47:1 54:7,11 necessarily 8:21
50:22 51:21 3:22 4:17,24 million 13:15 need 16:21
53:10 56:5,22 10:7,15,20 mind 6:11 16:19 needs 21:25
45:17 looking 7:10,11 20:20 25:8 27:19 31:8 never 22:11 25:4
34:8 46:10 54:14,15 58:17 misrepresents new 35:1 50:3
love 24:25 McConnell's 50:12 56:21 58:1
25:17,23 magic 21:14 mean 4:18 7:8 moment 34:22 nominees 28:10
40:11 44:7,8,9,19 7:23,24,24,25 money 13:8,13 54:25
52:16,20,25 10:4 11:9 12:6 13:13 16:20,22 nonpartisan
opposite 56:6 particular 5:21 24:8,10 36:13 16:7,10 23:11
37:2 option 4:18 26:16 27:2 58:12 58:5
3:8 20:5 28:21 38:17 43:11 pertinent 26:10 powerful 25:2
organization particularly 26:7 33:7 praise 55:12
15:6,7 42:19 parties 21:6,19 petitioning precise 21:2
51:14 organizations 30:16 55:15 precisely 4:4
32:24 party 43:16 phone 31:5 17:6 25:11
57:21 57:7 2:12 3:8 55:22 25:17 28:11,24 20:22
overbroad 8:4 pending 18:1 17:23 27:10,22 presented 49:11
overturn 6:8 15:3 19:6 24:4 52:6 56:25 President 38:15
overturned 38:15 39:14,14 24:15 55:25 57:17
42:13 peoples 38:5 34:24 43:16 press 37:13
48:1 perceived 27:13 politics 55:1 presumably
54:22 P percent 7:18,19 poll 18:21 37:9
59:2 PAC 12:23 13:3 percentage 4:3 pose 17:6 16:13 18:2
31:13,14 page 2:2 4:9 perfectly 50:11 16:3 24:3 previously
39:9 7:25 21:1 period 16:13 33:15 34:4 33:23
54:21 23:10 29:21 24:5 25:23 37:2,9,18 pre-election
42:11,12 56:4 57:8,17 38:17,18 41:16 21:5
42:2 paint 30:17 15:16 33:5 49:17 50:5 principal 4:24
22:7 part 20:10 23:24 permitting 56:24 49:23 50:3
42:5 51:16,23 person 23:14,19 possible 15:17 prior 11:24
puts 23:17 56:13 reasonably 44:19 22:1 24:15
31:18 reasons 4:21 26:14 respects 48:10
35:2 Q rebuttal 2:11 reject 9:2 53:17 response 27:25
14:4 43:17 recognized 7:12 33:23 34:18 rest 4:16
41:3,4 qualify 8:13 17:22 relate 21:19 restrictions 3:13
27:17 recognizing related 43:21 reviewed 3:15
5:24 6:16 11:7 reconsider 4:17 relative 8:3 20:20
24:14 28:1 58:16 45:3 rid 46:4
52:18 53:14,20 58:22 record 3:15 5:1 relevant 36:12 3:6 8:19 10:14
35:9 20:13 13:12 15:2,6 45:16 48:10 33:7 34:8
reelected 16:3 rely 33:24 57:9 rise 10:10
races 7:15 56:10 57:8 remanded 3:24 ROBERTS 3:3
46:23 raised 13:15 16:17 7:8 7:16 10:18
55:4,11 34:22 reexamine remote 50:18,21 11:3,16,22
41:22 55:8 50:20 49:12 28:11,18 42:9
24:4 31:13,13,23 referred 8:17 29:1 34:1 47:15 58:12
27:14 readily 40:10 52:9 require 11:23 run 3:17 6:19
37:12 realistic 41:20 referring 52:7 42:16 8:11 12:16
56:15 really 4:23 5:16 reflects 15:6 requires 21:21 14:9 15:11
27:17 regard 17:1 18:9 resemble 4:8 34:24 37:25
reason 16:11 regular 14:15 reserve 20:1 38:4 39:14
27:11 57:1 regulated 3:18 respect 5:13 running 15:4
36:1 reasonable 22:2 53:1 8:23 12:21 17:25 18:1
58:7 23:14,19,22 reinjecting 13:1 20:11 25:14 44:18
28:15
57:11 43:15 44:6,6 setting 12:20,20 21:18 26:1 state 29:12,12
24:8 12:12 13:4 shout 45:12 37:15,20,22 stations 58:11
44:8,25 26:21 show 21:21,25 38:2,6,10,18 58:12
48:1 self 42:5,6 38:14 41:1 43:22 44:5,13 statute 3:20,24
49:25 self-defining shows 57:12 47:11,19,25 8:4,8 9:17
51:20,21 10:3 shy 25:6 48:8,18,21 10:16 11:10,14
32:9 15:11 36:16 46:15,20,22 50:20 51:3,7 17:22 18:25
53:9 senator 1:8 3:6 sides 46:17 51:16,19,24 19:15 21:22
17:2,4,17,18 significant 41:2 52:4,10 22:13 23:3
8:15,19,24 18:18 20:6 simple 42:20 spans 21:5 43:2 47:13,21
25:18 28:14 simply 33:3 speak 8:21 22:7 49:4 52:6,15
12:1,6,18 30:11,12,18 36:23 44:7,19 27:2 38:21 53:3,9 56:3
16:24 31:5 37:9 38:3 50:16 58:13 59:1
38:7,12 41:15 single 32:4,5 speaker 21:20 statute's 4:3
19:5,14 41:23 51:3,6,8 site 28:16 31:4,6 30:1 34:19 statutory 3:18
22:19 51:12 56:9 31:7 37:22,23 specifically 8:1 8:18
23:7 57:8 38:5 50:21,22 specifics 7:11 step 48:19,23
27:5 senators 18:18 50:25 51:7 speculate 58:4,6 stepping 40:12
33:10 26:7,9 28:9 52:19,24 53:10 58:9,13 STEVENS
36:1,4 43:11 54:21,22 speculated 30:4 41:14,19 52:13
Senator's 17:14 situation 17:6 speculative 52:18,22,24
43:13 sense 36:19 six 34:10 50:19,21 53:8,24 54:5
47:17 sensibly 35:13 slightly 56:25 speech 14:22 54:10
49:6 sentence 28:10 small 32:23 19:7,8 22:9 stick 16:19
separate 12:12 smart 38:20 33:1,2,19 stress 56:1
58:6,9 12:23 13:4 sneak 46:7 35:19 36:24 strict 22:5,11
26:21 Socialist 21:19 40:5,6 46:3,4,4 48:2
separating Solicitor 1:19 spent 30:17 strike 10:24
48:2 session 33:5 17:10 20:16,16 46:13 29:10,22 33:25
53:18 T 2:1,1 39:11 31:22 36:6,7 37:13
table 25:3 text 25:16 29:23 three 4:6 6:17 54:6,23 55:20
tag 15:10 25:17 28:16,18,23 40:19 41:5 type 29:18,20
take 4:18 16:3 theater 45:13,13 54:22 55:2 50:1
10:17 33:15 54:20 throw 33:1 U
43:9,11
42:13 taken 49:4 thing 16:12 7:5 10:8 12:20 43:21
talking 24:17 45:5,6 46:18 15:15 18:14,22 4:25
47:7,7 27:1 40:22 31:10 32:17 44:24 46:11 32:15
38:16 television 32:3 42:22 times 15:4,5 13:5
58:11 think 4:15,22 18:15 19:11 understand
11:11 11:3 12:2 18:6 9:24,25 11:6 timing 57:12,13 38:25 40:24
25:18 27:13 11:18 13:22,25 Title 3:13 47:12 50:8
57:2,13 40:7 47:9 14:21 15:2,23 today's 39:13 35:12,15,16
telling 12:7 16:10 17:13,21 totality 9:5 36:22
30:3 10:3 21:11,12 22:10 trial 30:12,18 understood
35:15 23:17,21 24:11 tried 10:4 uniformly 7:13
test 19:1 21:10 27:3,5,8,18,23 32:2,2,4,4 57:5 unions 3:14 8:11
28:4 29:13 37:20,24 38:6 trying 11:13,20 United 1:1,16
27:19 35:18 42:16,24 45:3,7 46:13 29:14 30:17 unopposed
42:25 43:14 48:15 50:12,16 41:14 48:6,17 12:16
17:16 46:25 47:9,11 57:1,12,19 tunes 14:18 33:2
45:21 47:12,14 48:3 third 43:22,24 turn 54:22 unworkable
testified 29:11 thought 4:16 6:8 turning 7:13,14 53:18
22:14 3:15 web 28:16 31:4 world 9:19 159 29:9
vote 17:2,5 18:1 31:6,6 37:22 39:13 16 54:23,23
56:9 51:7 52:19,24 wouldn't 9:23 18 9:12
19:11 54:24 website 51:11,21 18:17 25:18
44:8 36:16 weren't 7:6,13 wrong 4:12,15 2000 13:9 36:7
50:5 vu 39:1 we'll 3:3 18:4 4:16 5:11 2003 14:14 56:7
we're 9:8 17:24 40:13 2005 15:5
39:6 54:19 207 7:25 21:1
wanted 18:7,8 win 15:24 33:14 57:17 3
Washington Z 4
wasn't 10:8 27:7 45 15:9
9:15 56:2 46 15:9
21:8,23 waste 17:3,3 word 22:24 5
3:4
23:1 Waxman 1:22 44:10 06-970 1:10,23 5 9:13
47:4 2:6 20:4,5,7 words 21:14 2:7 3:6 500 56:8
41:11 24:11,13,25 41:25 44:7,9,9 1,000 40:19 501(c)(4) 14:6
24:8 way 6:7 9:21,24 51:17 52:16,20 40:17,25
25:22 31:13 workable 32:18 127 4:9 36:15 40:21
25:23
42:12
42:11
10:14
7:18,24
7:24
47:8
5:8 7:25
25:21
9:13
36:7
