IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
LISA FITZGERALD, ET VIR. :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 07-1125
BARNSTABLE SCHOOL :
COMMITTEE, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, December 2, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:09 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Petitioners.
KAY H. HODGE, ESQ., Boston, Mass.; on behalf of the
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
KAY H. HODGE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:09 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 07-1125, Fitzgerald v. Barnstable
School Committee.
Mr. Rothfeld.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you. If it please the
Court:
The court of appeals in this case -- excuse
me, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could you raise the
podium?
MR. ROTHFELD: Actually, I have never used
this before, so it's a learning experience for me, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's enough.
MR. ROTHFELD: Okay.
JUSTICE STEVENS: We can't see you.
MR. ROTHFIELD: That -- that may be an
advantage, Your Honor.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we can hear you.
MR. ROTHFELD: If -- if I should modify it,
please -- please let me know.
The court of appeals in this case made two
fundamental and separate errors, each of which should
require reversal of its decision. First, all agree that
the question whether Title IX precludes the use of
Section 1983 to enforce the Constitution is a matter of
congressional intent. Yet, the court of appeals
entirely disregarded all of the ordinary indicia of
congressional intent: The statutory text, the statutory
background structure and evolution, the unquestioned
legislative purpose.
Each of these considerations points
conclusively towards a single outcome: Congress did not
mean Title IX to preclude the use of Section 1983 to
enforce the Constitution.
Second, rather than consider any of this
direct and compelling evidence of what Congress actually
had in mind in Title IX, the court of appeals applied
what it thought to be a presumption that the
availability of Title IX's implied right of action to
enforce Title IX's own statutory prohibition of gender
discrimination somehow should be taken to mean that
Congress meant to preclude the use of Section 1983 to
enforce constitutional rules against discrimination.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, there is --
there is a little bit of an air of unreality about all
this, because, of course, Congress didn't provide a
cause of action in Title IX to start with. And the
reason they don't have all these limitations and
restrictions is because they didn't put in the cause of
action.
We implied it from the statute, and so it
seems kind of awkward to say: Well, there are no
limitations, as I said, when there was no cause of
action.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I -- I guess there --
there are a number of points that I -- I can make in
response to that, Your Honor. First of all, I think
what -- what you say is absolutely right. Congress did
not expressly provide a cause of action in Title IX.
And so since -- since the question in a
preclusion case, the question whether or not Congress
meant to preclude the use of Section 1983, is whether
there is a clear indication of congressional intent to
do so, that there -- as a matter of definition, that
can't be present here. But -- but before --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe the question ought to
be whether this Court intended to have the Title IX
action which it invented preclude 1983. Why don't we
look to the intent of this Court?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I -- I think not, Your
Honor. I think that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you agree that this
Court invented the cause of action?
MR. ROTHFELD: No, I -- I don't agree with
that. I -- I do think -- and -- and I -- this is not my
principal point, but I do think it's quite clear that if
we are talking about what is the clear intent of
Congress regarding preclusion of use of Section 1983,
that the Congress did not expressly create a -- a
private right of action at all bears very significantly
on that.
I don't at all disagree that Congress
intended and expected that the courts would recognize
the right of action under -- under Title IX. But
Congress actually in Title IX specifically I think
addressed the preclusion question that we have here.
There is a clear statutory test that answers
the question in this case in -- in several respects.
First of all, when Congress enacted Title IX, it
specifically provided that -- it specifically
contemplated that there would be continued, private
constitutional litigation challenging -- to end
discrimination.
It specifically authorized the attorney
general to intervene in private litigation "whenever" --
and I am here quoting from the text of the statute --
"whenever suit is initiated in any court of the United
States to assert rights, deprivation of equal
protection, under the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution on account of sex."
Congress, therefore, specifically
contemplated when it enacted Title IX that there would
be -- there would, in fact, be constitutional litigation
challenging gender discrimination on account of sex.
And Congress surely knew that that litigation would
proceed under Section 1983. Respondents --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did we rely on that
provision in implying the right of action under Title
IX?
MR. ROTHFELD: The -- the Court did not. I
mean there, the -- the Court looked at what it took to
be the general -- the manifest congressional intent when
-- when it enacted Title IX. But it did not
specifically rely on -- on that legislation. The
legislation, of course, goes to whether or not Section
1983 suits were available, not whether there is a Title
IX implied right of action available.
And, as I say, in that -- in that
legislative language Congress made expressly clear that
it intended -- and intended actually to facilitate by
allowing the attorney general to intervene in --
continued Section 1983 litigation to enforce allegations
of -- of gender discrimination.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rothfeld, I follow
your argument entirely, and then in the civil rights
area there are a lot of overlapping statutes. You can
sue under Title VII. It doesn't take away your right
under 1981.
But in this case, as we get down to what
this case is about, we have a determination by a court
that the school district acted reasonably in relation to
these complaints. And then you say: But we have
constitutional claim. A constitutional claim requires
you to show deliberate, intentional conduct if it's an
individual; if you are talking about an institution,
some kind of not just one incident, but a custom, a
pattern.
What, when you get down to the merits, is
different about those? In other words, is it on the
wrong track to talk about precluding a statute? Instead
of talking about just plain old issue preclusion, what
is different about 1983?
Yes, you have two claims; but if you lose
under IX, you are going to lose under 1983 as well.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, that -- that is right,
Your Honor, to the extent that the claims are identical
and that they have actually been adjudicated.
The -- the First Circuit in this case
resolved the Title IX claim focusing on deliberate
indifference in response to the peer-on-peer sexual
harassment. To the extent that there is a federal
constitutional claim growing out of that conduct of the
same sort and to the extent that the elements of that
claim are identical, then we agree that at that point
that would be precluded. But we think that there is
more to this case than that one issue that has been
resolved.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What more? What more is
alleged in the complaint? I thought the complaint just
spoke about deliberate indifference.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I -- I guess there are
-- are two points in -- in response to that, Your Honor.
First of all, I think that the complaint can be taken to
allege in addition more generic --
(Banging sound.)
MR. ROTHFELD: I hope I am not responsible
for that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will give you an
extra ten seconds.
MR. ROTHFELD: And I -- I assure you I will
-- I will use them, Your Honor.
The -- the complaint, we think, should be
taken also to be generally in response to complaints of
-- of misconduct by individuals within the school, but
in --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Spell that out -- spell
that out practically. I know you used --
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think -- for example,
Your Honor, we think that one thing that -- that could
be developed and explored further is disparate treatment
of complaints; for example, the treatment of
complaints of bullying by boys more favorably perhaps
than by girls, believing testimony of boys rather than
believing testimony of girls.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there was no
allegation at all of that kind in this complaint.
MR. ROTHFELD: I -- I -- I agree that that
was not set out specifically in the complaint. The
complaint did say in a -- in a general sense that
Jacqueline Fitzgerald was denied equal access to the
benefits of education. It says that the discrimination
she suffered included but was not limited to sexual
harassment. It asked for relief, injunctive relief, to
bar unconstitutional treatment not only of Jacqueline
Fitzgerald but of all female students in the school,
which I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, could you have
brought a claim that they didn't let the female students
play hockey under your complaint? I mean, that's
additional discrimination.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: Didn't it have to be
related to the particular facts?
MR. ROTHFELD: Yes, that's right. I
think --
JUSTICE BREYER: And you talked about you
wanted some additional discovery. What? What is it
that you could go to a district judge now and say,
Judge, I have a basis here for asking for discovery on a
different but related theory? What words would you use?
What would you write in that request?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, there are a number of
points I should make in response to that, Your Honor. I
think one is, just as a general matter, we think that
that's something -- this entire set of questions are
things that are better resolved by the courts of
appeals -- on -- the court of appeals on remand. I
think that there are -- there are unresolved
constitutional --
JUSTICE BREYER: The reason I ask is
obviously if this case happens to be a case in which,
because of the finding that there was no intentional
discrimination and the school board behaved properly,
that if that's the finding and therefore you have no
claim under 1983 in respect to that, it becomes very
theoretical to say that they went too far and said you
might have no other 1983 claim because you would have
some other 1983 claim, but we should dismiss this as
improvidently granted and wait until somebody does this
again.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, certainly -- I --
certainly, I understand that suggestion, Justice Breyer.
And let me give you two responses to that. First a
specific response to why it could happen on remand.
This is not a theoretical possibility. There was
actually discovery that was requested concerning
additional complaints, concerning additional
disciplinary action against other students, concerning
requests for bus monitors, as to which could have been
developed that there was disparate treatment as to
those. The Respondents declined --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I still don't follow.
What disparate treatment? Did you have to have that
they treated girl's complaints one way and boy's
complaints another way?
MR. ROTHFELD: That -- that would be one way
in which --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And as far as this record
shows, there has just been this one incident of
harassment.
MR. ROTHFELD: Again, Your Honor, I think
one of the problems is that this case sort of went off
the tracks at the earliest possible stage, at the -- at
the time this motion for dismissal was granted. And it
could have developed in quite a different way.
For example, discovery was requested on
these subjects that I -- that I mentioned to Justice
Breyer, which -- which could have been used to develop
that, in fact, requests by boys were treated more
favorably than requests by girls; complaints by boys
were responded to more -- more favor --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that request here in the
record?
MR. ROTHFELD: Excuse me, Your Honor?
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that request here?
MR. ROTHFELD: The discovery request?
JUSTICE BREYER: Do I have the request in
the joint -- in the a -- do I have it in the appendix
here?
MR. ROTHFELD: No. No. It --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, we don't have it in
front of us?
MR. ROTHFELD: You do not have it in front
of you. But I can tell you that the request was made,
the Respondents declined to respond it to it for, among
other reasons, the -- their assertion that it would not
lead to the discovery of relevant evidence or admissible
evidence. After the 1983 conclusion ruling, and because
of the conclusion ruling, that was not followed up
because it would have been futile to try to develop
additional argumentation in that -- in that direction.
Had the case not hopped the track at this
point, if the complaint could have amended -- could have
been amended, additional individual defendants could
have been added, the case could have gone on in quite a
different direction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Rothfeld, we were -- we
were warned about all these problems in the brief in
opposition, weren't we?
MR. ROTHFELD: That is correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Didn't that focus almost
entirely upon the fact that there is no 1983 cause of
action anyway?
MR. ROTHFELD: That is exactly --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And we nonetheless
granted -- granted cert?
MR. ROTHFELD: Precisely the same arguments
that were made in almost identical language in the brief
in opposition are now being made as an argument as to
why this Court should decide the merits of the 1983
claim or dismiss as improvidently granted.
The Court -- I don't presume to tell the
Court what it was thinking when it granted review of the
case, but it did presumably reject those arguments at
that point, and there is no reason that they are any
additional basis now.
JUSTICE STEVENS: What I understand, Mr.
Rothfeld, that if you win on the question presented, you
would agree that the -- the arguments the other side
makes on this, on whether there's a cause of action
under equal protection and so forth, that would remain
open on remand?
MR. ROTHFELD: Absolutely.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And you may still lose the
lawsuit even if you win here?
MR. ROTHFELD: That is -- that is absolutely
correct. The constitutional arguments were made on the
merits to the district court and to the court of
appeals. They were not addressed by either. Those
courts cut it short and threw the case out on conclusion
grounds.
And I -- I think the way in which the court
of appeals decided the case actually suggests that it
was of the view that there was more to the case than
simply the Title IX claims that had been rejected,
because one would have thought that if the court of
appeals was of the view that there is nothing to the
case beyond the Title IX peer-on-peer harassment claim
that has been reject, it would have ended its discussion
at that point. It would have said: We reject your
Title IX claim; there is nothing more to your 1983
constitutional claim; that's the end of the matter.
But it didn't do that. It decided the Title
IX claim on the merits, rejecting it. And it then
separately went on to address the Section 1983
constitutional claim and said: We are not going to
address those merits at all; we are going to say that
those claims are precluded as a matter of per se Title
IX law, that Title IX is preclusive. And, therefore,
one would think that the court of appeals had it in mind
that there was more that could have been decided about
the merits --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we find that out on
remand.
MR. ROTHFELD: And we'll find that out on
remand.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What you're saying is
they made a basic legal error.
MR. ROTHFELD: That's --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You may have a losing
case under 1983, but let the First Circuit decide that?
MR. ROTHFELD: That -- that is absolutely
correct. That is our --
JUSTICE BREYER: How do we know that the
First Circuit wasn't just thinking about the facts of
this case in front of it when it said that there's no
1983 action. I mean, they didn't think there was no
1983 action for search and seizure. They must have had
some idea of what the limitations of their saying no --
no -- no 1983 action was. So why do we know that they
went beyond what they had in front of them in this case?
I'm not saying they didn't? I am just wanting to know
what we -- how we know that?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I -- I think one of the
problems is, of course, we don't know for sure what --
what they were thinking, and therefore, it makes sense
to think that this Court, in the regular course of its
practice could decide the question presented and to send
the case back down to the lower courts --
JUSTICE BREYER: But you see, the question
presented, I guess is -- I'm trying to get the exact
words, but it's whether the Title IX replaces the --
what is it, it's whether -- I'm sorry. You have it
right in front of you there.
MR. ROTHFELD: Whether Title IX precludes
the assertion of constitutional claims for gender
discrimination in schools under section 1983. The --
the -- the reason that I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: You think they're --
they're referring to all of Title IX, no matter what the
claims, whether they are overlapping or not?
MR. ROTHFELD: I think that that is the
language that the First Circuit uses. The First Circuit
says, in so many words, that Title IX is the exclusive
avenue for the assertion of claims of gender
discrimination arising out of -- arising from schools.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, because they were
relying on case where we did say that a very detailed
scheme was pre-emptive?
MR. ROTHFELD: They were relying on one case
in which the Court said that, in Smith v. Robinson, the
only time in 140 years that Section 1983 has been on the
books that this Court has ever said that Congress meant
to preclude its use to enforce a particular
constitutional right. And I think --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It did that because if
you could use 1983, then the very elaborate mechanism
that Congress had set up, who would use it?
MR. ROTHFELD: That's -- that's absolutely
right. But I -- I -- I add parenthetically that
Congress promptly responded to the Court's decision in
Smith by restoring the remedy --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Just on that one issue on
attorneys' fees.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think that the
language used is actually broader in the -- in the --
legislation. But that, as I said, is a parenthetical
point.
I -- I think that something that we have
here which was not present in Smith at all -- and as you
said, Justice Ginsburg, it is absolutely right that
there was a much more elaborate, involved administrative
remedial scheme in the statute considered there, there
is nothing remotely like that in Title IX. But before
you could even get to that point, there is this
expressed evidence in the statutory text of Title IX
that Congress did not mean to preclude. This is Section
1983.
First there is the provision that I
mentioned regarding the attorney general, which -- which
expressly contemplates there will be continued Section
1983 constitutional gender discrimination after the
enactment of Title IX. I think that in and of itself
was positive and tells the Court all it needs to know.
But beyond -- there is -- there is more.
Beyond that, there is the language of the
antidiscrimination provisions of Title IX, which was
borrowed directly, is identical to the language of Title
VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Congress dropped
the phrase "race, color and national origin" that
appears in Title VI and substituted "sex" in Title IX.
And, so, the Court has recognized that
Congress expected and intended that Title IX would be
interpreted just as -- as had been Title VI.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Have there been any
decisions on Title VI and 1983?
MR. ROTHFELD: There -- there had been a
myriad of such decisions. There had been, as we cite in
our brief, as the American Bar Association cites in its
amicus brief supporting us, the American Civil Liberties
Union cites in its brief, there have been almost two
dozen cases decided before the enactment of Title IX in
which courts allowed the simultaneous assertion of
statutory discrimination claims under Title VI and
section 1983 discrimination claims under Title IX.
There had not been a single suggestion by any decision
that there might possibly be preclusion. And so, at the
time that Congress used the language of Title IX, it
knew that that language had been uniformly, widely
construed across the country to allow the simultaneous
assertion of those claims, not the preclusion of Section
1983 claims for discrimination.
And so it's when Congress -- when
legislative language has been the subject of judicial
construction, as the Court has said many times, and
Congress repeats that language in a new statute, its
expectation and intention is that the judicial
construction is going to be taken as well.
And so that I think that is also dispositive
of the question in this case, because the Congress chose
language that it necessarily knew had been understood
not to preclude the use of Section 1983.
And I will mention as well, just to throw in
the suspenders along with the belt, an additional
consideration that the court of appeals ignored here was
the manifest legislative purpose of section -- of Title
IX, which was to expand and strengthen protections
against discrimination in schools.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, of course,
Title IX is Spending Clause legislation, and that, under
our precedents, imposes certain limitations on how we
interpret it that would not be applicable under Section
1983.
MR. ROTHFELD: Absolutely correct. And I
think that there are --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the point is
that that would then allow 1983 actions to circumvent
those limitations on the Title IX remedy.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I -- I think not, for a
couple of reasons, Your Honor. First, as I say, there
is this direct evidence of what Congress had in mind.
It specifically referred to constitutional litigation
under the Fourteenth Amendment when it enacted Title IX,
and, therefore, by definition it could not have been
concerned about evasion in that sense. But I think that
their -- "evasion" is not the word to use here because,
on the one hand, there are statutory rights created by
Title IX; on the other, there are pre-existing
constitutional rights.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And those constitutional
rights have negated -- I think it might be -- it's at
least arguable that it would be harder to win a 1983
case, given that, as to the individual, you have
qualified immunity, and, as to the institution, you have
to show a custom or practice.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, the only availability
for individual liability is under the Constitution,
because Title IX, at least as construed by the lower
courts, does not permit suits directly against the
individual, only against the institution, which I think
is a significant distinction between the two and
supports the argument that Congress could not have
intended to preclude because, as the Court has
recognized repeatedly, the availability of individual
liability greatly adds to the deterrence, the effect of
deterring constitutional violations.
And the suggestion that, when Congress
enacted Title IX it would have -- meant to have the
perverse effect of allowing a school, by accepting
federal funds, to insulate school policymakers from any
personal statutory liability, you know, for even the
most blatant and obvious acts of unconstitutional sex
discrimination, would turn Title IX on its head. It's
inconceivable that Congress could have had that in mind
when it enacted a statute that was clearly designed to
expand and strength protections against sex
discrimination.
I'll make sort of two additional points,
Your Honor. As I suggest, I think the direct evidence
in the statutory text, as well as the legislative
purpose, is dispositive here and the Court need not go
beyond that to answer the question here. That leaves
the question of how the court of appeals got the matter
so far wrong. And I think that the reason that they did
is, ignoring the text, they applied what they thought to
be a presumption derived from this Court's decision in
cases like Smith v. Robinson and the Palos Verdes case
that the creation of a new statutory right and a new
statutory remedy necessarily reflects a congressional
intent to preclude the use of Section 1983 to enforce
overlapping constitutional remedies. There has never
been such a presumption.
The Court has said repeatedly, I think, as
was suggested earlier in the discussion, that when
Congress creates new statutory rights and new statutory
remedies, they are presumed to overlap with and to
supplement existing statutory rights and remedies,
unless the two are positively repugnant to one another,
unless they are inconsistent and can't be reconciled.
That certainly is not the case here. The Section 1983
constitutional claims and Title IX supplement and
complement each other. The two statutes are by no means
coterminous in who can be sued.
The Court has certainly never presumed that
the creation of any statutory right or statutory remedy
bars the use of Section 1983 to enforce the
Constitution, as suggested by Justice Ginsburg's
question. The Court has only once in well more than a
century that Section 1983 has been on the books held
that availability of the constitutional remedy had been
precluded. As I say, Congress promptly responded by
providing that remedy.
The Palos Verdes decision, which was the
fulcrum of the court of appeals decision, I think
suggests what's wrong with its analysis. Palos Verdes
involved a new statutory right, a new statutory action
to enforce that right. The statutory action was limited
in significant respects, and the Court concluded, as a
matter of common sense, that one could infer from that
situation Congress intended that the new right with the
new remedial system would be exclusive, otherwise
plaintiffs could immediately go to court and render that
system a dead letter.
But, as Justice Scalia pointed out in his
opinion for the Court, that remedy had no effect
whatsoever on section 1983. It meant that Congress had
placed the new remedy outside of section 1983's remedial
framework, but that claims that were available prior to
the existence of that new right, prior to the creation
of that new right, remained available under section
1983. And that is exactly the situation that we have
here. Plaintiffs are not trying to allege a new
statutory right that is outside the section 1983's
remedial framework; instead, they are asserting
fundamental, pre-existing constitutional rights.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I take it they don't
have to bring these actions together. They can sue
under Title IX; if they lose, then they can start a
whole new lawsuit under 1983?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think that to the
extent -- as was suggested by Justice Ginsburg's point
in questioning, to the extent that the claims are the
same, then they would preclude it. If the 1983 has the
same elements, the same cause of action, it --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It would be a different
claim, but there would be issue preclusion.
MR. ROTHFELD: Issue preclusion. That's
right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even if you have
different -- I guess would you have a different set of
defendants, right? You would have the school in the
Title IX case, the individuals in the 1983 action?
MR. ROTHFELD: I think, to the extent that
the suit was initially brought against the school under
Title IX for a type of claim that could have been
brought as a parallel claim against the individual under
section 1983, and the Title IX claim was rejected, to
the extent that the elements are the same, presumably
there would be a defense of collateral estoppel.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the official -- it's
the plaintiff who would be precluded.
MR. ROTHFELD: That's right. That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the plaintiff has had
a full and fair opportunity to argue those issues.
MR. ROTHFELD: That's exactly correct.
If the Court has no further questions, Your
Honor --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Hodge, we will
hear from you on behalf of the Barnstable School
Committee.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KAY H. HODGE
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MS. HODGE: Thank you. Mr. Chief Justice,
may it please the Court:
Title IX provides for sex discrimination and
provides a remedy for sex discrimination in a broader
category of circumstances than the Equal Protection
Clause. Therefore, having Title IX preclude section
1983 Equal Protection claims does not deny petitioners
in this or any other case availability --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you go over that
again? I didn't understand it. You said Title IX
provides --
MS. HODGE: Title IX --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- against sex
discrimination than the Constitution does.
MS. HODGE: Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Explain that to me.
MS. HODGE: The Title IX prohibits
discrimination on the basis of sex. The Equal
Protection Clause or section 1983 and the Equal
Protection Clause require that additional intentional
discrimination that this Court found in Personnel
Administrator of Massachusetts v. Feeney. We would
suggest to the Court that Title IX actually covers a
broad range of circumstances that may not involve that
very specific intent required to perfect a
constitutional violation. And clearly -- if you look at
the cases, the cases clearly involve a variety of
instances which would not be sufficient under, say, a
constitutional evaluation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Give me an example.
MS. HODGE: An example would be the
situation such as this particular situation. We are
told this is a case of peer-on-peer, student-on-student
harassment. In this situation, the standard as decided
by this Court in Davis is deliberate indifference.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And what would the
standard be under 1983?
MS. HODGE: The standard under 1983 is also
deliberate indifference, but it requires then that the
deliberate indifference be shown to be not just the act
of a school administrator who does not do what they
should do in order to pursue a particular complaint;
but, rather, there needs to be the specific intent to
discriminate or -- or specific intent to choose boys
over girls or girls over boys in that decisionmaking
process.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but if you lose under
-- under Title IX, a fortiori, you would lose under the
Constitution, I would think.
MS. HODGE: I -- I believe -- and that is,
in essence, the position that the Barnstable School
Committee and Superintendent Debra are arguing in this
case; that is, that because deliberate indifference is
the standard that is applicable both under Title IX and
also under the Constitution, that it is -- it is --
having lost the issue of deliberate indifference before
the First Circuit, that finding of the First Circuit
precludes any further controversy between the parties in
this case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they didn't go on the
issue of preclusion. If they had done that, it would be
a different case. They said that Title IX is preemptive
of 1983. And they cited the cases where -- like Smith
against Robinson where that is what the Court held.
MS. HODGE: I believe, Your Honor, that we
have a situation in which you have both claim
preclusion -- both preclusion under Smith v. Robinson as
well as issue preclusion, which makes it somewhat
complicated. But I would suggest in this case under
these circumstances, because the issue was deliberate
indifference and because there was a finding both as a
legal matter as well as a factual matter of deliberate
indifference, that essentially the two sort of collapsed
into one.
With regard to Smith, I would point out that
under the Smith theory constitutional claims can be
precluded if the -- under the statute under review it
has comprehensive, remedial schemes. And we would argue
that there is a comprehensive remedial scheme, and that
this Court has, in fact, sort of found that and even
added to it in the development -- have found that
Congress intended to add to the remedial scheme an
implied right of action.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- you must, I
think, recognize that the elaborate scheme that Congress
set up under the Education of the Handicapped Act is
quite different from what this Court did. It just said
there is a private right -- right of action. There is
an implied private right of action.
It didn't set up any administrative
mechanism. It didn't set up any regime for going to --
to an agency first and then coming to the court, none of
that.
MS. HODGE: There is not. But I would
suggest that that is appropriate under the
circumstances. And I would also suggest that there is,
in fact, an administrative scheme. The regulations
that, in fact -- that have been promulgated by the
Office of Civil Rights and the Department of Education,
in fact, have a number of prerequisites and
requirements. They impose upon --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You are not arguing
that the agency regulations have the effect of
precluding the 1983 action.
MS. HODGE: No. I mean we are not arguing
-- we are arguing that some of those steps are
illustrations of sort of a -- the -- the scheme that was
created. But there is a remedial -- the -- the remedial
scheme leads to the potential loss of federal funding --
of --
JUSTICE BREYER: Are you saying -- are you
-- is this what you are saying: We imagine that we have
a institution that is receiving Federal assistance,
okay? And we also imagine that somebody is claiming
that on the basis of gender they have been excluded from
participating in, or denied the benefit of, or have been
subject to discrimination.
Are you saying that it is impossible for
anyone to imagine a circumstance in which it would be
held the defendant did not violate Title IX, but in
which the court held it did violate the Equal Protection
Clause? There is no such circumstance; no one can
imagine one. Is that what you are saying?
MS. HODGE: Your Honor, what I am saying is
I cannot imagine one. And I don't believe --
JUSTICE BREYER: You cannot imagine one.
And you think no one can imagine one. So the obvious
question on rebuttal is, since we have limited it to
that universe, it would be the other side must imagine
one?
MS. HODGE: I believe that that is true.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's simple.
MS. HODGE: And I would point out that in
response to the Petitioners' argument today, they have
attempted to suggest that there may be some issues that
were not discovered; that were not, in fact, fully
reviewed by the court below.
And I suggest that the First Circuit did, in
fact, look at specifically that issue. And the First
Circuit said in their decision that, in looking at the
equal protection claim in particular, that the
petitioners offer -- or in that case, they offer, the
plaintiffs offer -- no theory of liability under the
equal protection clause other than the defendants'
supposed failure to take adequate actions to prevent
and/or remediate the peer-on-peer harassment that
Jacqueline experienced.
And I suggest to you that that is exactly
the issue that -- that that is exactly the issue. The
issue is whether or not, if you look at the complaint,
the claim that is being brought under Title IX and the
claim that is being brought under Section 1983 in the
Constitution are virtually identical, which is a second
problem of the Smith test: If there is a comprehensive
remedial scheme. Again, it's a remedial scheme.
And, second, the question is: Are the
claims virtually identical? And I would suggest to you
that the First Circuit found that they were virtually
identical. And I would suggest that that is what leads
to preclusion.
Now, that doesn't mean that there aren't
other claims that could be made with regard to others.
But for the institution, it -- I -- the -- it is very
important. Congress established this particular scheme
under Section 19 -- under Title IX, and it would be our
view that Congress specifically and intentionally
focused -- fixed the responsibility for sex
discrimination on the institution and on the
institutional recipient of Federal financial assistance.
And that if you were to allow Section 1983
claims, that enforcement would not be nearly as
equitable. We would point out that it's obvious, but it
is important to consider that recipients of Federal
financial assistance include not only municipalities
that include public schools; they include State entities
which under this Court's decision -- under this Court's
prior decision in Wills versus Michigan are not subject
to suit under Section 1983 and private entities that are
not subject to 1983 at all.
JUSTICE BREYER: Does a disparate-impact
claim violate section -- Title IX?
MS. HODGE: There -- there --it is not 100
percent clear except for the following, and I would
suggest this: Title IX prohibits discrimination. If it
were determined that a policy or other practice led to a
denial of equal access to the benefits in -- in -- and
participatory activities of an individual student based
on their gender, I believe it is covered; and I believe
it is discrimination; and I believe it is prohibited.
And the fact of the matter is, though, that
under the law as developed by this Court and the Equal
Protection Cause, the fact of the matter is that it
would not cover disparate impact, because this Court has
held that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you have any case in
all of Title IX that -- that fits that abstract picture
that you have just described? I mean you have to have a
pattern and practice of what -- a pattern and practice
of discrimination -- to get -- to get under the
Constitution or under 1983?
You have to have deliberate indifference to
what: To the gender harassment, to the gender
discrimination? So can you describe to me that --
anything, any Title IX case, that has a disparate
impact? We really didn't want a Feeney type of case.
We really didn't want this to happen but we had a test,
and it came out that way.
MS. HODGE: Well, I believe --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you describe a Title
IX case that's like Feeney in that respect where we
didn't want this diverse impact to occur; we really
didn't want it at all, but it happened?
MS. HODGE: I believe that the fact that it
happened is sufficient discrimination to come under
Title IX. I would point out to Your Honor that the
Cannon case, in fact, involved essentially the -- a
disparate-impact type case. It dealt with admissions
policies and the effect of the admissions policies on
individuals.
And, consequently, I believe that it is not
ethereal. It is quite real. But the difference is that
the question becomes one of whether or not an
individual, based on their gender, is being denied the
benefits of, and participation in, available --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: On the basis of gender.
MS. HODGE: On the basis of gender -- on the
basis of gender, but I don't believe the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And Feeney says it wasn't
on the basis of gender. It was on the basis that she
wasn't a veteran.
MS. HODGE: But you see, I believe that the
impact, which would have been an individual would not
have been allowed to participate, may be an additive
factual conclusion which would go to the general
discrimination issue. The position that -- the argument
we are making to this Court includes the fact that since
Title IX is as broad, if not broader, and I would
suggest the following through a visual picture.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there is -- you are
leaving out something quite glaring in that respect.
For example, single sex schools, military academies,
admissions to elementary and high schools, are not
covered by Title IX.
MS. HODGE: Oh, you are absolutely correct,
Your Honor, and under those circumstances, we would
suggest that as this Court found in Mississippi v Hogan,
that those institutions would then be subject to section
1983 review, but on the highly constitutional standard
which requires intentional discrimination; and second of
all, we believe that that is -- that Mississippi is an
illustration of the reason why the argument of
Petitioner regarding 2000h of Title IX, which deals with
the fact that -- that when they passed Title IX, they
also reserve the opportunity for the Attorney General to
become involved in a case under 1983, that the intention
of that language was not necessarily to preserve 1983 in
cases against recipients who are in fact covered, but it
would have been to reserve the right of the Attorney
General to -- to intervene in cases in which either the
institution was not covered -- because you are
absolutely right, there are institutions which are not
covered -- and as you decided in Mississippi v Hogan,
they would be subject to section 1983; and/or
individuals that the First Circuit recognized might,
because they -- if they are -- if they are State actors,
that is not the case you have here, which was
peer-on-peer harassment -- but if you is had a situation
where for example, a teacher or an administrator was in
fact the alleged harasser, that a 1983 could be brought
against the individual, and indeed the Attorney General
could intervene in those cases.
JUSTICE BREYER: If it's an individual,
under Title IX you can't bring the suit.
MS. HODGE: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But you could
under 1983?
MS. HODGE: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MS. HODGE: But --
JUSTICE BREYER: So your point then is --
and that's why I have had trouble with this case -- is
that if you look at the First Circuit opinion, it sort
of seems to say, "if there is a difference, of course
you can have a 1983 suit, but if there is no difference,
you can't." I mean, everybody here seems to agree to
that, I guess.
So I'm not certain what to do, because Selya
started his opinion by saying this isn't a case where
Title IX doesn't apply; it does apply; they have the
funding; but he doesn't talk about the exemptions and he
doesn't really talk about the -- a difference between
suing an institution and suing an individual. So maybe
what we should say is, maybe he meant it, but he didn't
say it.
MS. HODGE: Well, I would argue -- I would
argue to the Court that I would hope that this Court
would take -- would affirm the First Circuit opinion,
but I would say to -- to -- to Your Honor the following:
that with regard to the individual defendant in this
case, who is the superintendent of schools, who as we
argue, the question presented only deals with the
institutional recipient; but nevertheless the First
Circuit found that the individual was acting only in
their official capacity.
And once again, that -- that issue is not
before this Court. And having decided that they were
acting in the individual's official capacity, we would
argue therefore that the individual would not be sued,
because the claim and all of the facts --
JUSTICE BREYER: So you were saying if it's
an individual acting in his official capacity, you
cannot sue him under Title IX?
MS. HODGE: To the -- yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Okay.
MS. HODGE: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Then their answer to that
which is now say, look, we want to sue an individual in
his official capacity; that's why we want to bring our
1983 suit. And then you reply, but there are bars here
of collateral estoppel. Claim preclusion, whatever it
is.
MS. HODGE: Issue preclusion.
JUSTICE BREYER: They all have new names.
(Laughter.)
MS. HODGE: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: The -- the -- okay, so
that's your argument.
So why don't we just send it back, say
that's right; this suit is not precluded by 1983;
indeed, that's the only place can you bring it; it's not
precluded by Title IX, and now court, you go decide
whether claim preclusion exists, or whatever they call
it. Collateral estoppel, or -- you understand what I
mean.
MS. HODGE: Your Honor, I believe that they
did decide that in the language I did quote to you just
a moment ago from the First Circuit opinion, which is
found at the appendix 23a or the decision. Essentially
they are -- they are saying that -- that there was --
that because no theory of liability was offered other
than this, that there isn't any further claim available.
With regard to sending this case back, we
argue, based upon the deliberative difference standard,
which I think is indisputably -- the standard falls
under Title IX, and the standard under the Equal
Protection Clause -- that that deliberative difference
standard and -- and the fact the First Circuit found
that -- that there was -- that the Barnstable School
Committee acted reasonably and without deliberative
difference, precludes -- there is no issue in
controversy anymore.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yet the other side says
that there may be, and I don't know why we ought to get
into that. Why can't we just send it back and let them
figure that out? And -- and -- and decide what we took
this case to decide, namely, the split that now exists
in the Federal courts over whether Title IX precludes
the use of 1983. That is an important question. It's
why we took the case. Why can't we decide that issue
and then for all these loose ends, send it back to the
court of appeals?
MS. HODGE: Because there must be an issue
in controversy for this Court to send any -- there must
be an issue in controversy here and also --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He says there is an issue
in controversy, that's good enough for me.
(Laughter.)
MS. HODGE: Well -- well, with all due
respect, I would suggest that what you have to look at
is the complaint, and you have to look at the argument,
you know, what was in fact argued. And I would
suggest --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- I'm sorry, so
you seem to be saying that they were right, that 1983
actions are not always precluded, depending on whether
there is a difference in the issues that are presented
or whatever.
So you should never say that Title IX
precludes an action under 1983. In fact, you should say
that sometimes the issues that are litigated under Title
IX may result in the fact that you don't have
available -- you don't get relief under 1983, but there
is still a cause of action.
MS. HODGE: I don't -- I don't believe that
that is -- that that -- that that should -- that should
be the result of your decisionmaking.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's kind of odd to
say that -- as I understand what you are saying, you are
saying that whenever there is issue preclusion, the
consequence is that 1983 is precluded in the sense that
actions were precluded in Smith. Well why -- I guess
I've gotten -- maybe I am repeating the question. Why
do we have to decide that, and we would just say there
is a 1983 action, but you may not be able to pursue it,
I guess is the way to put it, if your claims are
precluded or the issues result in the fact that you
don't recover.
MS. HODGE: I -- I believe that that would
be satisfactory. From our point of view because we
believe the issue preclusion applies that would be
satisfactory because we --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- but that doesn't
cover the situation in which a plaintiff says, I don't
want to proceed under Title IX; I want to proceed first
under 1983. Then there is going to be no question about
whether 1983 is -- is unavailable because of issue
preclusion. He is starting with 1983.
MS. HODGE: There is no question, but in
those circumstances then as to an institution --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is your position on
that --
MS. HODGE: Our position is that as a
recipient of Federal -- if the institution involved is a
recipient of Federal financial assistance who is covered
by Title IX --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't proceed under
1983.
MS. HODGE: Cannot proceed under 1983.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you are disagreeing.
MS. HODGE: Yes, we are. Yes, we are
disagreeing, and I would suggest that the difficulty
that this Court is having, or at least as I experience
it, the difficulty with regard to issue preclusion and
claim preclusion turns in this case on the fact that
this perhaps being a peer-on-peer harassment case --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't it quite clear we
can forget about issue preclusion and assume as
Justice Scalia did, the client brought an action under
1983 and did not rely on Title IX at all, and just sued
the school board, you would say he can't do that?
MS. HODGE: Correct. Correct.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And that's your issue,
whether that's right or wrong. We don't have to talk
about issue -- issue preclusion to decide that issue.
MS. HODGE: That is correct, except that as
we argue -- what we have argued before the Court is that
under Smith the question is, is there a comprehensive
remedial scheme, and we would argue that there is; but
then have you to determine whether the claims are
virtually identical; and we would argue that here the
claims are virtually identical.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wouldn't your reasoning
apply to, say, a race discrimination case in employment?
We have got title VII and you have 1981. Title VII has
a lot of accoutrements, a lot of text to go through;
1981 is plain and simple. So therefore, title VII ought
to preempt 1981, right? So you -- in the area of race
discrimination and employment, title VII would end any
access to 1981. It would be the same kind of argument,
wouldn't it?
MS. HODGE: I believe that -- that there is
that argument, but to be honest, I'm not in a position
right now to reflect on exactly -- I believe that that
would be certainly the direction, however, there are
unique aspects of race. And I believe that that is yet
another basis on which I would quarrel with the
Petitioner with regard to suggesting that Title VI
and -- and Title IX ought to be treated exactly the
same. The history of sex discrimination versus race
discrimination are quite different in scope.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What does that have to
got to do with what you are arguing is that if you have
an elaborate mechanism, which you said you have under
Title IX, I think that is debatable? But that was
certainly the picture in Smith, and it's the picture in
Title VII, Title VII versus 1981. That -- that fits
your -- the -- your description, Title VII and 1981,
much better than Title IX and 1983, I think.
MS. HODGE: I guess I -- I don't agree. It
is our -- it is our view that 19 -- that in this
particular instance -- and I -- and I think I may have
misspoken if the view is, is that it's the
administrative schemes that get compared. I -- I
believe under Smith, the issue is whether or not there
is a comprehensive remedial scheme, and here you have
the remedy -- both an administrative remedy as well as a
private right of action, which we would argue should
preclude the 1983 claims.
Moreover, we would also look with regard to
the fact that this is a constitutional claim to the --
to Bivens -- to the line of cases under Bivens which we
cite in our brief, the fact that when Congress provides
a remedy for a particular area -- in a particular area,
that that remedy can preclude an independent action
which even is based on the Constitution. And we would
suggest that that would be -- that that is something
that we would urge this Court to consider --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's because
we're still in the business of implying rights of action
under Bivens. And it's different to say -- you know, if
you say we are applying it, but as soon as Congress does
something, we are not going to do that. That's quite
different than construing a provision like 1983 which
Congress has enacted.
MS. HODGE: Well, that is correct, except
that this Court has, in fact, applied its preclusion
doctrine by looking at whether or not Congress has made
any statement in the statute, then if you want to take
it statute to statute, then what you would be looking at
is you would be looking at essentially Rancho Palos
Verdes. And as -- as this Court did in -- when it
decided Rancho Palos Verdes, it remanded for
consideration communities of equity, which is a Title IX
case for reconsideration by, I believe it's the Eighth
Circuit under the Rancho Palos Verdes decision.
And while that case ultimately did not come
back to this Court, but the circuit court determined
that it treated -- it treated the issue differently, and
we would argue that that is a part of this split, and
that that is -- and that is not the appropriate
resolution.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was no
constitutional claim in -- what was it -- Palos Verdes.
MS. HODGE: Exactly. There was no
constitutional claim in Rancho Palos Verdes. However,
this Court did cite Smith and did cite Smith in its
decision and -- and favorably so. But moreover, we
would argue that -- the question is really a different
-- comparing a statute to statute, which is Title IX to
section 1983. Congress allowed for actions in 1983,
Congress allows for actions under Title IX, or whether
or not you are looking at the issue of Title IX versus a
constitutional claim.
Now, I want to just make the point that
preclusion makes sense. Congress really did put the
focus in Title IX on the institution, and Congress is
also seeking to have equity of enforcement.
Further, as set for in the amici in support
of the Respondents' position, we would point out that if
section 1983 claims are not precluded, that it would
require the expenditure of funds by -- by recipients of
federal financial assistance on a variety of issues that
are totally unnecessary including qualified immunity.
And on the peer-on-peer harassment case, I
think it's very important to focus on what this case is.
It is a peer-on-peer, student-on-student harassment
where, what you would have is, if you were going to
allow additional claims under section 1983 against the
institution, it would -- it would intrude and interfere
with the school's processes of disciplining students.
And I would also suggest that it might also
interfere in the classic manner in which --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask you one sort of
anomaly that keeps running through my mind in this case.
If you have two school boards, one of -- two schools,
state schools, one gets federal funds and the other does
not, does this preclude -- no 1983 remedy against one,
but there is a 1983 remedy against the other, that's
your view, isn't it?
MS. HODGE: It is exactly our view because
the recipients would be subject to the remedial scheme
set forth in Title IX.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is it anomalous to think
it --
MS. HODGE: I don't think anomalous. I
believe the reverse is anomalous, because what you would
be suggesting if you do not preclude section 1983, you
would suggest that the recipient could have both the
1983 and a Title IX, whereas the nonrecipient would have
just section 1983.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would it prove the same
facts in both cases? I mean, the case of it would
involve the same evidence, same alleged wrongdoing, and
then one case you can rely on 1983 and the other you
can't?
MS. HODGE: I believe under those
circumstances, Justice Stevens, that what we would be
talking about would be the situation where a -- under
Title IX there is -- there's actually an easier path to
recovery, if you will, because it does not require the
specific intent required by Massachusetts v. Feeney,
which we believe sets a slightly higher -- a bar and a
higher level of intentionality.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you just said
that a deliberate indifference under both statutes,
under 1983 and Title IX.
MS. HODGE: Your Honor, it is -- deliberate
indifference is the standard. However, in order to
prove a constitutional violation, you must also have the
specific intent for invidious discrimination that we --
that this Court has not imposed and did not impose in
Davis for violations of peer -- for peer-on-peer
harassment cases.
So, while the discrimination needs to be
intentional under Title IX, it is not required that
there be the specific intent to favor one over the other
or one protected status over the other.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then you wouldn't have
gender discrimination.
MS. HODGE: But you -- excuse me, I'm sorry.
You would have gender discrimination if you have a
typical -- in the peer-on-peer harassment cases, the
question is whether or not the institution was or was
not deliberately indifferent in the manner in which it
responds. In -- in a deliberate indifference --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Response to what?
Response --
MS. HODGE: To a complaint about sexual
harassment. If the institution fails to respond
appropriately, the lower courts have found that that can
be gender discrimination under Title IX. They do not in
any way look to ensure that -- look to determine whether
or not there is that specific invidious discrimination
that we would argue this Court has imposed in its cases
under the Equal Protection Clause.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you wouldn't have --
if you work for a municipality and your boss has been
harassing you, you would not have a case under 1983?
MS. HODGE: If you were a municipality and
your boss was harassing you, in a school setting by a
recipient of federal financial assistance?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You were saying the
constitutional standard is different, so I am just
giving you a case. It could be a school, it could be
another municipal employment.
MS. HODGE: You would need to have the
specific intent, invidious intent that we believe is an
additional element and a much harder element to prove in
that situation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms.
Hodge. Mr. Rothfeld, you have five minutes, remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Your Honor. I
will try not to use my extra ten seconds.
Two principal points. First on the proper
disposition of this case. The First Circuit's holding,
and I'm reading from 24a of the petition appendix: the
comprehensiveness of Title IX's remedial scheme
indicates Congress saw Title IX solely as vindicating
the constitutional right to be free from gender
discrimination perpetrated by educational institutions;
it follows that the plaintiff's equal protection claims
are precluded.
That was not a holding that had to do with
claim preclusion, issue preclusion, title estoppel; it's
a holding that constitutional claims simply cannot go
forward. So there were constitutional claims were
advanced below, argued to both courts, that have not
been discussed by any court at any point, and I think
the proper disposition here is, the most regular course
in a case of this sort to is decide the question
presented, send the case back.
It certainly is not the case -- it's a
commonplace that the Court has threshold questions that
are presented to it. There are remaining issues that
have to be resolved on remand, it's certainly not the
Court's usual practice to decide whether or not
plaintiffs can -- can prevail on those claims on remand
before deciding the threshold question on which cert was
granted. I think that's the appropriate approach for
the Court to take here.
On the merits, very quickly. Again I think
we have to -- the gold standard of evidence as to
preclusion, we have expressed statutory text that deals
with it. Learned colleague suggested that the Attorney
General intervention provision somehow limited the cases
involving claims by schools that do not accept Federal
funds are somehow not subject to Title IX. That is not
the language of the provision. The provision says
whenever -- whenever it is claimed, it is initiated, in
a court of the United States asserting deprivation of
rights essentially on account of sex, the Attorney
General can intervene. Clearly Congress had it in mind
that there would be such claims, and this was enacted as
part of -- Title IX was enacted as part of the statute
that creates rights against discrimination by schools
receiving Federal funds. It makes no sense to suggest
that Congress --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, does that provision
apply only when there is a Title IX cause of action?
MR. ROTHFELD: No. No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh well, if it doesn't,
then it -- then it has validity whether or not you agree
with your position.
MR. ROTHFELD: That's true but I think it
answers the preclusion question that it suggests that
Congress has it in mind that there would in fact be
section 1983 constitutional litigation involving gender
discrimination.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They thought only in cases
where there is no Title IX action.
MR. ROTHFELD: They said whenever there is a
claim of unconstitutional gender discrimination. I
think it's a blanket suggestion Congress made --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, you don't think they
mean whether there is a valid claim? Even when there is
a claim that isn't allowed under the law?
MR. ROTHFELD: I am suggesting that the
language says that whenever a claim of gender
discrimination is advanced under the Constitution, the
Attorney General can intervene. I think what we can
draw from that is Congress imagined, it said there would
be constitutional litigation involving gender
discrimination after they enacted the law. And because
that provision was added to the law as part of Title IX,
Congress surely contemplated that these suits would
involve gender discrimination involving schools.
The other sort of clear textual indication
which again, again my learned colleague has not really
discussed, is the Title VI history of enforcement prior
to the enactment of Title IX, which would absolutely --
that there are almost two such dozen decisions, which
this Court incorporated into the canon, which suggests
it is not only appropriate, it's realistic to think that
when Congress was aware of at the time it enacted Title
IX. Those decisions clearly indicated there was no
preclusion. The language of Title VI and Title IX is
identical. There can be no doubt, I think, that
Congress would have had it in mind, which, if it is not
appropriate in this context as well.
One final, very quick point. This is an
implied right of action; to suggest that Congress meant
to preclude the use of the Constitution to enforce --
preclude section 1983 to enforce the Constitution while
leaving it to the courts to imply the alternative
remedy, to devise the contours on and the limitations on
that remedy, would require -- hypothesize a remarkable
leap of faith on the part of Congress.
It also would require the most extravagant
and speculative reading of Title IX, to understand that
it's not only to include private rights of action but to
preclude the assertion of express rights of action
created by Congress by a language in another statute.
If there are no further questions, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:10 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
56:25 14:12,15 15:12 56:11 appropriately 38:3,15 54:1,8
17:8 28:15 49:8 14:15 area 8:7 45:17 attorneys 19:10
22:5 52:13 Amendment 7:5 47:3,3 authorized 6:25
38:6 additive 37:3 22:14 arguable 22:23 availability 4:20
address 16:16 American 20:20 argue 27:10 23:2,10 25:6
45:19 adjudicated 9:3 38:8 argued 42:16 avenue 18:16
19:18 31:10,17 49:23,25 50:1 arguing 29:22 awkward 5:8
administrator answer 24:3 46:7
29:11 40:11 argument 1:13 B
38:13 answers 6:18 2:2,7 3:4,7 8:6 back 17:25
36:12,13 37:12 20:8 37:5,21 40:22 53:13
6:4 55:11 anyway 14:24 52:17 4:10
7:14 advantage 3:22 appeals 3:11 4:2 argumentation Banging 9:21
12:19 affirm 39:17 4:7,18 11:23 14:12 bar 10:25 20:20
15:16 agency 31:12,23 11:23 15:25 arguments 15:3 50:17
ago 41:7 16:4,8,21 15:10,15,23 Barnstable 1:6
26:15 agree 4:4 6:3,5 21:21 24:4 arising 18:17,17 3:4 27:17
31:3,8,9 9:10 10:18 25:10 42:6 asked 10:24 29:21 41:18
42:24 15:15 39:5 APPEARAN... asking 11:15 bars 25:2 40:14
44:23 46:14 54:19 1:15 aspects 45:25 based 35:7
47:4,9 air 5:1 appears 20:12 assert 7:4 36:18 41:13
55:2 AL 1:7 appendix 13:24 asserting 26:5 47:5
allegation 10:17 41:8 52:23 54:7 basic 17:4
33:15 allege 9:20 26:3 29:24 18:7,16 20:24 15:12 28:13
43:11 alleged 9:15 applied 4:18 21:7 56:18 32:10 36:20,21
38:14 50:8 24:6 47:16 assistance 32:8 36:22,24,24
55:16 allowing 8:2 appropriate assure 10:1 behaved 12:4
32:20 47:2 38:2,4,16 47:1 circumvent 22:8 colleague 54:1
35:8,8,9 bring 26:8 38:18 50:7 51:3,12 cite 20:19 47:2 55:20
40:13,25 51:24 54:2 48:11,11 color 20:11
41:5 broad 28:19 55:1 cited 30:8 come 36:9 48:1
37:7 category 27:25 cites 20:20,22 coming 31:12
broader 19:12 cause 5:3,5,9,15 civil 8:6 20:10 Committee 1:7
47:24 27:24 37:7 6:4 14:23 20:21 31:19 3:5 27:18
brought 11:4 15:16 26:15 claim 8:14,14 29:22 41:19
26:25 27:2 35:12 43:3 9:5,8,10 11:4 common 25:15
44:23 century 25:5 16:9,12,13,15 53:15
36:19 certainly 12:12 35:1 40:4,15 comparing
C 2:1 3:1 45:24 46:10 46:25 48:8,10 compelling 4:17
20:6,7 Cannon 36:11 challenging 6:23 55:4,7,8,10 9:15,19 10:3
canon 55:24 7:10 claimed 54:6 10:17,19,20
12:2,2 13:8 26:7,20 27:14 25:24 26:13 12:18,25 13:1
17:12,17,25 47:8 52:15 43:15 45:9,11 24:23
29:14 30:14 33:12 17:11 18:14,14 clause 22:1 28:1 45:7 46:20
35:15,24,25 30:2,2 33:8,10 28:14,15 32:17 comprehensiv...
12:1,13 39:1,8,20 41:17 47:25 clear 5:19 6:7,8 concerning
41:12 42:1,4 48:2 6:18 7:25 35:3 12:17,18,19
17:10 44:19,20 45:13 Circuit's 52:22 44:21 55:19 concluded 25:14
32:6 47:24 48:1 circumstance clearly 23:21 conclusion 14:9
33:2 49:4,5,14 50:7 32:14,17 28:21,22 54:9 14:10 16:1
38:17,20 50:9 52:3,9,22 circumstances 56:2 37:4
40:5 53:12,13,14 27:25 28:19 client 44:23 conclusively
56:23,24 30:15 31:16 collapsed 30:18 4:13
5:2,14 28:21,24 30:21 21:21 23:9 deals 37:22 32:11 36:18
6:9,10,13 37:18 46:25 24:2,4,14,25 39:21 53:25 deny 28:2
7:7,11 48:8,10,18 25:4,10,14,18 dealt 36:12 Department
18:24 50:24 52:8 25:21 27:12,22 debatable 46:9 31:19
53:1,7,8 54:24 28:16,18 29:5 Debra 29:22 depending
21:4 55:14 30:9,25 31:7 December 1:10 42:20
construction 31:12 32:16 decide 15:6 17:7 deprivation 7:4
23:8,13 21:11,14 33:7 35:11,13 17:24 41:1,6 54:7
24:16 construed 21:6 37:6,16 39:16 41:25 42:1,4 derived 24:7
23:4 39:16 40:1 43:13 45:4 describe 35:23
34:9,11 construing 41:1 42:6,8 53:12,18 36:4
47:13 44:17 45:6 decided 16:4,14 described 35:17
contemplated 47:7,16,21 16:22 20:23 description
54:9,14 6:22 7:8 55:17 48:2,2,11 51:1 29:4 38:7 40:1 46:12
55:5,13 contemplates 51:24 53:10,15 47:22 designed 23:21
56:1,5,8 20:2 53:22 54:7 deciding 53:20 detailed 18:19
context 56:6 55:24 decision 4:4 determination
5:19 7:18 8:3 20:2 11:22 16:1 25:9,10 33:10 determine 45:9
contours 56:12 17:25 20:24 34:21,22 41:8 51:22
30:3 41:21 51:20 53:9 decisionmaking 48:2
correct 14:21 Court's 19:7 decisions 20:17 23:11
47:7 22:5 27:11 53:18 56:2 develop 13:14
47:23 38:19,22 45:1 43:23 14:6 developed 10:11
coterminous 37:13 38:2,5,7 39:19 35:11
counsel 4:25 covers 28:18 14:15 26:22 31:1
7:6 23:3 country 21:6 created 22:18 defense 27:5 difference 36:16
28:9 couple 22:11 32:3 56:19 definition 5:20 39:3,4,11
33:23 course 5:2 7:21 creates 24:16 22:15 41:13,16,20
47:5 17:21,23 21:25 54:12 deliberate 8:15 42:21
56:9,10 39:3 53:11 creation 24:9 9:5,16 29:5,9 different 8:20
6:23 7:9 3:10,11 4:2,7 custom 8:17 30:15,17 35:21 13:11 14:17
9:8 4:18 5:23,25 23:1 50:20,22 51:15 26:16,21,21
15:23 6:4 7:3,16,17 cut 16:1 deliberately 30:7 31:7 46:5
18:7 8:11 11:23 51:14 47:10,13 48:13
20:3 15:6,8,9,24,24 D deliberative 52:8
16:3,7,21 D 3:1 41:13,16,19 differently 48:3
24:12,22 17:23 18:22,24 Davis 29:5 51:2 denial 35:6 difficulty 44:16
disparate-imp... 7:19 22:14 everybody 39:5 27:4
23:25 disposition 54:10,11 55:15 14:8,9 19:22 extravagant
45:24 dispositive enactment 20:4 50:8 53:24
disregarded 4:8 ended 16:10 exact 18:2 facilitate 8:1
11:14 15:24 4:21,24 8:3 33:18,19 45:23 31:17,18,20
doctrine 47:17 25:2,13 56:9 49:20 35:12 36:8,11
dozen 20:23 enforcement 13:12 28:25 38:14 41:17
12:17 dropped 20:10 ensure 51:22 excluded 32:10 46:25 47:2,16
14:8 due 42:13 entire 11:21 exclusive 18:15 54:23
14:23 excuse 3:11 40:4 50:7
6:24 E 2:1 3:1,1 equal 7:4 10:21 exemptions 37:4
8:4 10:22 earlier 24:15 15:17 27:25 39:10 fails 51:19
12:4 18:8 earliest 13:9 28:2,13,14 existence 25:25 failure 33:15
20:3,25 easier 50:14 32:16 33:11,14 existing 24:18 fair 27:10
education 10:22 35:6,11 41:15 exists 41:2 42:1
27:23
51:25 53:3 expand 21:23 falls 41:14
28:9,13 educational equitable 34:17 23:22 far 12:7 13:4
32:12 53:2 equity 47:23 expectation 24:5
35:4,9 effect 23:11,15 48:22 21:13
36:9
31:23 error 17:4 expected 6:14 favorably 10:13
45:13 36:13 errors 4:3 20:14 13:16 48:12
46:4,5 Eighth 47:24 ESQ 1:16,18 2:3 expenditure federal 9:7
51:4,9 either 15:25 2:5,8 49:1
32:4,8
essence 29:21 experience 3:16 34:14,18 42:2
54:12,25 elaborate 19:3 essentially 30:18 44:17
49:2,16
31:5 36:11 41:8 experienced 52:6 54:3,13
element 52:13 established 34:9 Explain 28:11 35:25 36:5,23
elementary 40:15 41:3 express 56:18 fees 19:10
elements 9:9 ET 1:3,7 53:25 figure 41:25
35:13 45:13,18 52:10 28:24 extent 9:2,7,9 34:19 44:9
enacted 6:20 7:8 evasion 22:16,17 26:12,13,24 49:2 52:6
funding 32:4 13:16 29:15,15 51:19 hope 9:22 39:16
9:4,19 funds 23:16 49:1 give 9:24 12:14 52:13 hypothesize
17:7,11 49:16 54:4,13 28:25 head 23:19 56:13
19:25
30:2,2 27:12 30:3 giving 52:9 27:17 I
33:8,9 41:11 48:23 glaring 37:10 held 25:5 30:9 idea 17:15
38:9 39:2 56:20 go 11:14 24:2 32:15,16 35:14
41:7
43:24 30:5 37:4 41:1 higher 50:17,18 33:23 34:2,4
G 45:15 53:7 highly 37:18 45:10,11 56:4
10:21 11:1 7:10 8:4 18:7 16:18 21:14 hockey 11:5 illustration
49:5 36:21,22,24 good 42:11 29:1,8,20 imagine 32:7,9
39:18 11:20 20:1 grounds 16:2 40:8,10,17,20 immunity 22:25
generally 10:4 39:6 43:11,15 45:5,21 46:14 implied 4:20 5:7
31:1 10:7,16 12:23 H 1:18 2:5 27:19 52:4,11,16 implying 7:14
37:16 13:4 16:24 hand 22:18 Hogan 37:16 47:9
41:8,17 17:3,6 18:18 Handicapped 38:7 important 34:9
19:2,9,17 31:6 holding 52:22 34:18 42:3
26:16 27:6,9 36:1 honest 45:22 impose 31:21
26:5 29:6 30:5 31:4 happens 12:2 3:22 5:13 6:2 imposed 51:1,24
18:5 45:12 46:6 harassment 9:7 22:11 23:25 32:13
institution 8:16 50:8 55:18 48:14,16,17,21 44:11,14,21,23
56:17 32:8 34:8,13 25:12 36:11 50:21 51:5,21 47:8 48:7
34:14 39:22 19:9 26:17,18 IX's 4:20,21 55:1,6 56:22
37:17 38:6 33:9,19,19,20 K
insulate 23:16 40:17 41:20 Jacqueline 27:19
6:14 8:1,1 43:9,20 44:1 joint 13:24 KENNEDY 6:3
5:25 6:8 7:18 issues 27:10 Justice 3:3,13 knew 7:11 21:5
29:5,9,10 50:25 51:6 53:16 7:13 8:5 9:14 17:10,16,18,19
30:1,16 52:12,12 IX 4:5,14,18 5:3 9:24 10:7,16 17:21 20:5
35:21 intention 21:13 5:15,23 6:15 11:3,8,12 12:1 23:17 41:23
51:15 37:25 6:16,20 7:8,15 12:13,23 13:4 42:16 47:10
12:3 28:15 9:5 16:6,9,12 14:2,18,22 L
intentionality 18:3,6,11,15 16:24 17:3,6 15:4 18:14
22:24 intentionally 20:8,12,14,23 18:18 19:2,9 21:4,5,10,12
27:2 34:11 21:1,4,23 22:1 19:17 20:16 21:17 38:1
36:18 interfere 49:9 22:9,14,19 21:25 22:7,21 41:6 54:5
38:15,17 49:12 23:4,14,19 25:3,20 26:7 55:10 56:3,19
interpret 22:3 24:22 26:9,23 26:12,16,20 Laughter 3:23
interpreted 27:1,3,23 28:1 27:6,9,14,16 40:19 42:12
36:14 intervene 7:1 29:18,24 30:7 28:11,25 29:6 55:8,15,16
8:2 38:4,16 32:15 33:21 29:17 30:5 lawsuit 15:21
intervention 35:16,24 36:5 32:21 33:2 lead 14:8
6:4 41:15 42:2,23 38:23,25 40:5 55:20
M moment 41:7 official 27:6 participate 37:3
19:13 manner 49:12 municipalities 55:6 36:19
51:14 34:19 okay 3:19 32:9 participatory
21:10,22 Massachusetts 52:2,4 40:21 particular 11:9
28:17 50:16 myriad 20:19 old 8:22 18:25 29:2,12
11:20
33:13 24:4 25:15 names 40:18 39:2,8,17 41:7 passed 37:23
30:17,17 35:10 national 20:11 opportunity path 50:14
22:2,9 7:17 11:3,5 21:17 24:10 14:20 15:5 peer 51:2
17:13 19:23 38:1 oral 1:12 2:2 3:7 peer-on-peer
32:23 35:17 39:5 needs 20:5 29:13 order 29:12 33:16 38:12
41:4 50:7 55:7 51:4 50:23 44:20 49:4,6
8:3 56:8 39:22 46:3 perpetrated
54:24 mechanism 19:3 new 21:12 24:9 outcome 4:13 53:2
31:11 46:8 24:9,16,16 outside 25:23 personal 23:17
39:2 13:13 20:1 26:3,10 40:18 overlapping 8:7 petition 52:23
42:14,15 merits 8:19 15:6 nonrecipient 18:12 24:12 Petitioner 37:22
51:22,22 15:24 16:15,18 50:4 46:2
53:23
military 37:11 PAGE 2:2 28:2 33:4,12
O Palos 24:8 25:9 52:18
54:9,23 32:22 34:17
26:9 56:5 parallel 27:2 37:8 46:10,10
obviously 12:2 parenthetical place 40:25
Office 31:19 56:14 26:3 33:13
56:18 18:20 provision 7:14 race 20:11 45:13
40:24 41:1 52:21 provisions 20:8 47:22,25 48:10
15:11 53:4 private 6:11,22 21:22 24:2 56:16
19:14,21 precludes 4:5 7:1 31:8,9 pursue 29:12 real 36:16
26:12 18:6 30:3 34:23 46:22 43:14 realistic 55:25
33:3 41:20 42:2,24 56:17 put 5:5 43:15 really 35:25
36:10 precluding 8:21 problem 33:24 48:20 36:1,6 39:11
43:19 31:24 problems 13:8 p.m 56:24 48:13,20 55:20
53:10 preclusion 5:17 14:19 17:21 reason 5:4 12:1
6:9,17 8:22 proceed 7:12 Q 15:11 18:9
11:19 30:12,13 34:5 process 29:16 quarrel 46:1 41:19
52:21 40:15,17 41:2 processes 49:10 question 4:5 reasoning 45:12
48:20 53:6,6 35:4 21:16 24:3,4 32:23 52:17
44:5,7 56:3 25:7 34:1 36:17 54:13
48:24 preclusive 16:20 promulgated 39:21 42:3 recipient 34:14
preempt 45:17 31:18 43:12,25 44:3 39:22 44:8,9
35:5,18 53:13,16 35:12 41:16 quick 56:7 reconciled 24:20
53:18 preserve 38:1 51:25 53:3 quickly 53:23 reconsideration
5:18,24 presumed 24:17 52:13 44:21 46:5 recovery 50:15
19:23 24:25 provide 5:2,15 47:12 referred 22:13
23:9 presumption provided 6:21 quote 41:6 referring 18:11
26:14 4:19 24:7,13 provides 27:23 quoting 7:2 reflect 45:23
46:23 prevail 53:19 27:24 28:6 reflects 24:10
49:17 prevent 33:15 47:2 R regard 30:20
56:9,10 pre-emptive providing 25:8 R 3:1 34:7 39:19
44:18 47:3,4 49:17 responds 51:15 Rothfeld 1:16 55:6
49:18 56:12,13 response 5:13 2:3,8 3:6,7,9 scheme 18:20
37:22 render 25:18 11:19 12:15 5:11 6:1,5 7:16 31:2,5,17 32:2
repeating 43:12 responsibility 11:10,18 12:12 46:20 49:21
replaces 18:3 responsible 9:22 14:1,4,18,21 schemes 30:23
repugnant restrictions 5:5 15:19,22 17:1 school 1:6 3:5
request 11:17 reversal 4:4 18:13,21 19:5 12:4 23:15,16
13:15,16 6:11,15 7:14 54:17,21 55:3 21:24 34:20
50:9 28:15 49:1 11:10 18:5 ROTHFIELD 49:15,16 54:3
31:21 27:8 31:3,8,8,9 search 17:14
15:18 29:9 37:19 40:24 42:19 S 2:1 3:1 33:23 34:1
17:2 reserve 37:24 45:3,17,23 satisfactory 37:19
38:3 46:22 53:1 43:19,21 seconds 9:25
11:22 53:17 20:10 22:18,20 17:18 32:6,7 4:23 5:18 6:9
26:5 36:5 37:10 26:6 31:19 39:8 40:5 41:9 16:16 18:8,23
31:2 42:14 47:9 54:8,12 42:19 43:8,9 19:23 20:2
33:25 respects 6:19 56:17,18 52:7 21:1,7,18,22
45:8 25:14 ROBERTS 3:3 says 10:22 18:15 22:3 24:11,21
49:21 respond 14:6 4:25 7:13 9:24 36:23 41:22 25:2,5,22,23
51:19 21:25 22:7 42:10 43:23 26:1,4 27:3
25:7 42:18 43:7 14:18,22 15:1 35:1 37:17
24:10 1:19 2:6 7:12 56:22 42:10 43:22 49:8 50:2,5
12:22 14:6 Robinson 18:22 44:5,11,14,23 54:24 56:10
46:21,21 27:20 48:24 24:8 30:9,12 54:15,18 55:1 see 3:20 18:1
43:23 50:13 38:10 49:16 sued 24:24 40:3 T
41:24 30:8,12,20,21 statute 5:7 7:2 suggest 23:25 taken 4:22 9:19
53:13 33:24 43:11 8:21 19:19 28:18 30:14 10:4 21:14
22:16 solely 52:25 47:19 48:14,14 35:4 37:8,16 talked 11:12
43:10 somebody 12:10 54:11 56:19 42:14,17 44:16 talking 6:8 8:16
54:13 32:9 statutes 8:7 47:6 49:11 8:22 50:13
26:21 51:10 19:22 20:25 25:3 26:12 ten 9:25 52:20
sort 9:9 13:8 22:18 23:17 54:1 test 6:18 33:24
49:22 23:24 30:18,25 24:1,9,10,16 suggesting 46:2 36:1
27:23 sound 9:21 steps 32:1 23:13 55:5 19:22 24:1,6
28:8,13 specific 12:15 Stevens 3:18,20 suggests 16:4 45:15 53:25
37:11 28:20 29:13,14 15:13,20 29:17 25:11 54:22 textual 55:19
54:8 50:16,25 51:6 44:21 45:2 55:24 Thank 3:9 27:14
specifically 6:16 50:12 suit 7:3 26:25 52:19 56:22
56:16 students 11:1,4 29:22 39:20 thing 10:10
Spending 22:1 student-on-st... 24:18,22 think 5:13 6:1,2
spoke 9:16 subject 21:10 supporting 9:19 10:3,9,10
standard 29:4,7 37:17 38:8 supports 23:8 11:20,24 13:7
21:6 50:23 52:8 submitted 56:23 sure 17:21 18:10,13 19:1
start 5:3 26:9 substituted 55:17 21:15 22:6,10
29:2,2,4 starting 44:2 sue 8:8 26:8 21:20 23:25 24:5,14
38:12 state 34:20 40:7,12 system 25:17,19 25:10 26:11,24
31:5 46:2,3,9,11,11 56:16 34:11 43:19 22:23
41:14 46:12,13 47:23 understood 46:15,17 49:19 word 22:17
48:14,16,17,21 21:17 49:20 words 8:20
49:22 50:4,14 uniformly 21:5 VII 8:8 45:14,14 11:16 18:3,15
50:21 51:5,21 Union 20:22 45:16,18 46:11 work 52:2
55:5,6 52:24,25 53:6 unique 45:25 46:11,12 wouldn't 45:12
56:4 54:4,11,16 United 1:1,13 vindicating 45:20 51:8
56:1,3,3,16 universe 32:24 violate 32:15,16 write 11:17
16:7 24:6 told 29:3 49:3 violation 28:21 25:11 45:3
55:1 totally 49:3 unquestioned 50:24 wrongdoing
tracks 13:9 unreality 5:1 51:2
56:1 treatment 10:11 use 4:5,14,23 45:11 Y
5:3,15,23 trouble 39:1 19:3,4 21:18 W
7:8 true 33:1 54:21 22:17 24:11
8:8 try 14:11 52:20 25:2 42:3 want 35:25 36:1 1
16:6,9,12 trying 18:2 26:3 52:20 56:9 36:6,7 40:12
35:2
Tuesday 1:10 uses 18:14 40:13 43:24,24
1:14 3:2
turn 23:19 usual 53:18 47:18 48:19
56:24
20:4 turns 44:19 wanted 11:13
two 4:2 8:24 wanting 17:18
34:10 46:15
9:18 12:14 v 1:5 3:4 18:22 warned 14:19
20:10
21:1,4 20:22 23:7,24 24:8 28:17 Washington 1:9
8:9 45:14
22:1,9 24:19,23 30:18 30:12 37:16 1:16
23:4 49:15,15 52:21 38:7 50:16 wasn't 17:11
24:22 55:23 valid 55:7 36:23,25
4:6,14,23
27:1,3 type 27:1 35:25 validity 54:19 way 12:25 13:1
6:9
28:1,5,7 36:12 variety 28:22 13:2,11 16:3
8:3,23
29:18 typical 51:12 49:2 36:2 43:15
12:6,8,9
30:7 Verdes 24:8 51:22
33:21 25:9,11 47:21 went 12:7 13:8
17:7
35:1,4 ultimately 48:1 47:22,25 48:8 16:16 17:17
36:4 unavailable 48:10 weren't 14:20
19:3
37:7,13 44:1 versus 34:22 we'll 17:1
20:3,17
38:18 unconstitutio... 46:4,11 48:17 we're 47:9
22:4
40:7 41:1 10:25 23:18 veteran 36:25 whatsoever
24:11
42:2,23 55:4 VI 20:10,12,15 25:22
25:2,5
43:24 understand 20:17,25 46:2 widely 21:5
26:2,10
45:14 12:13 15:13 55:21 56:3 Wills 34:22
27:3
28:5 41:3 43:8 view 16:5,8 win 15:14,21
29:7,8
31:24
34:15,23
35:20
38:1
40:14,24
46:13,23
48:15,15
49:8,17
50:2,4,5
52:3
56:10
25:23
1:10
37:22
1:10
41:8
52:23
2:6
2:4
2:9
