IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-1410
NAVAJO NATION. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, February 23, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GEN. EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Acting Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GEN. EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 19
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GEN. EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 47
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first today in Case 07-1410, United States v.
Navajo Nation.
General Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
GEN. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
Six years ago this Court rejected the Navajo
Nation's claim for damages in connection with the same
action that is before the Court here, the Secretary's
approval of amendments to the tribe's mineral lease in
the mid-1980s. The Court held there that in order for
the United States to be held liable under the Tucker Act
or the Indian Tucker Act, the claimant must specify at
the threshold a specific rights-creating or
duty-imposing statutory or regulatory prescription that
the government has allegedly violated.
The Court found no warrant in any relevant
statute or regulation to impose liability on the United
States. In particular, the Court concluded that the
approval of the royalty rates in the tribe's lease was
governed by the Indian Mineral Leasing Act of 1938, or
IMLA. Looking at IMLA's framework, the Court held that
there was no, quote, "textual basis," close quote, in
any pertinent statutory or regulatory provision that
required the Secretary to insist that the tribe
negotiate for a higher rate.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it said
"pertinent or relevant," but surely that's limited to
the statutory provisions that we examined in the case.
GEN. KNEEDLER: But I think the way to look
at it is what the Court said, that it found no warrant
in any relevant statute or regulation, and it discussed
not just IMLA but several other statutes which -- which
did have to do with the economic -- excuse me -- the
economic terms of leases, but --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the question --
GEN. KNEEDLER: -- didn't govern.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the question
presented, General Kneedler, was limited to IMLA, to the
Mineral Leasing Act.
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was the government's
question presented.
GEN. KNEEDLER: Two things about that. The
government's question presented was that the Court could
not find the United States liable or -- was whether the
Court could find the United States liable without
finding a violation of IMLA. And therefore, the premise
of the question was, without finding a violation of
IMLA, the United States could not be liable, and the
Court found no violation of IMLA.
But beyond that, the tribe's principal
submission in this Court was that the United States had
control through a network of statutes, including the
ones they rely on here. But the Court also itself on
page 30 of its brief in that case identified the
relevant statute as being IMLA and the other two that
this Court discussed and the general introduction to the
Rehabilitation Act.
So I think the structure of the Court's
opinion, looking at the way the tribe serves it up, the
Court said there has to be a specific violation of a --
of a statutory regulatory prescription. The Court found
that the relevant one was IMLA, and it found no
violation. And therefore -- and the Court also said the
tribe's claim, not simply arguments made in favor of the
claim, must fail.
But if the Court concludes that its prior
decision did not absolutely foreclose the litigation, we
think it's clear that the framework that this Court
announced in -- or reaffirmed in Navajo 1 itself does
foreclose the claim here. As I said, the Court
concluded that IMLA is the statute that governs the
approval of royalty terms in coal leases.
On remand, the Federal Circuit relied on two
other statutes addressing other subjects, the Surface
Mining Reclamation and Control Act, which has to do with
the regulation of environmental issues and matters that
may arise in connection with a coal lease, and the
Hopi-Navajo Rehabilitation Act of 1950, which set in
motion a general governmental program to rehabilitate
and improve the economic life of the Navajo and Hopi
Indians.
But neither of those statutes had anything
to do with the approval of the economic terms of coal
leases. That was governed by IMLA. So the fact that
the Federal Circuit on remand held the United States
liable on the basis of two statutes that have nothing to
do with coal leasing, minus the statute that did have
something to do with coal leasing, in our view shows how
far the Federal Circuit has strayed from this Court's
teachings.
But beyond that, we think it's a fortiori
that the court of appeals erred in its alternative
holding, which was that the United States could be held
liable on the basis of general common law principles.
The Tucker Act and the Indian Tucker Act provide that
the United States may be liable only for a violation of
an act of Congress or a regulation. And it was for that
reason that this Court stated in Navajo -- in the Navajo
1 case that there has to be a violation of a specific
statutory or regulatory provision.
Even as a general matter, under this Court's
jurisprudence, there is only a very limited role for
Federal common law, but that is especially so when what
we are talking about here is liability for damages under
a waiver of sovereign immunity, and the usual sovereign
immunity principles have to cast considerable doubt on
that. Only an act of Congress or a regulation adopted
pursuant to congressionally conferred authority can
provide for the payment of money out of the Federal
Treasury under our Constitution.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there cases in the
courts of appeals where Indian tribes litigate with the
Secretary and claim an abuse of discretion for the way
in which the Secretary performs the duties with respect
to Indian lands?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Under the Administrative
Procedure Act, there could be -- there could be claims
brought, but those would not be for money damages.
They're --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I recognize that, but
I want to know, is there a body of law in the Federal
Circuit that generally recognizes that the -- that the
Secretary has a fiduciary obligation that's enforceable
as a matter of administrative law?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Not in the Federal Circuit,
to my knowledge, because -- because the Administrative
Procedure Act --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I meant all of the
circuits.
GEN. KNEEDLER: Yes. No -- in the -- under
the Administrative Procedure Act -- I'm not -- just like
any party could claim -- could challenge what was done
by the Department taking particular administrative
action. And I think there -- I think that was what --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what I was asking
was whether there was some doctrine that the -- that the
trustee -- that the Secretary acts in a capacity, a
fiduciary capacity as a trustee. If that doctrine were
out there, then that might be the basis for saying that
it's a sufficient foundation for a money damages. I was
just asking, is that doctrine there?
GEN. KNEEDLER: No, not -- not in the way
you put it. But there are cases that certainly talk
about this, that the Secretary has trust
responsibilities. But there are a lot of ways in which
that concept can be used. It can be used in a political
sense in that the United States Government, through
treaties or a general sense of moral responsibility,
should look out for the Indians, and in the day-to-day
administration of Indian affairs, to contemplate a trust
responsibility is simply to mean that the United States
has a special relationship and should deal in that
manner.
And under the Administrative Procedure Act,
if there is -- if there is an action the United States
takes under a statute that governs Indian affairs, that
would be -- that would be subject to judicial review
under the general principles, is it arbitrary and
capricious under normal principles, does substantial
evidence sustain the determination?
But, particularly in a suit for money
damages under the -- under the Tucker Act and where
Congress has said there has to be a violation of a
money-mandating statute or regulation, general common
law principles do not suffice. As I said, for money
damages, only Congress or an executive agency under --
acting pursuant to congressional authority under the
Constitution can provide for the payment of -- of money
out of the Federal Treasury.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I -- this may be a
purely academic distinction, but you talked in terms of
liability. Are you suggesting that the trust principles
do not set a standard to which the Secretary is bound,
or simply that they don't constitute a waiver of
sovereign immunity?
GEN. KNEEDLER: I think it's really both.
The general trust principles, at least -- at least again
under Tucker Act jurisprudence, general trust principles
are not what establish the Secretary's duties. It's the
acts of Congress that impose duties on the Secretary in
this area as in any other, or regulations the Secretary
has prescribed under it.
Now under this Court's jurisprudence, the
Court has said that the notion of trust is relevant at
the second stage of the analysis. The first stage is
the threshold requirement that there be a specific
statute or regulation that imposes duties or rights. If
the Court finds that, then at the second stage, as this
Court has held in Mitchell 2 and indicated in Navajo as
well, that may be relevant to determine whether those
specific duty-imposing statutes in turn also impose
monetary liability on the United States for violation.
JUSTICE ALITO: Under both IMLA and the
Rehabilitation Act, leases have to be approved by the
Secretary. Doesn't that impose a duty on the Secretary?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well, what the Court said in
Navajo specifically with respect to IMLA, the Secretary,
yes, does have to approve it, but the Court specifically
rejected the proposition that there was any basis for
liability stemming from the Secretary's approval of the
lease.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, under the
Rehabilitation Act, if it applied to this lease, what
would the Secretary's duty be?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Section 5 of the
Rehabilitation Act for approval of leases is essentially
the same as IMLA. It provides for the Secretary to
approve the lease. But, as this Court held in IMLA --
or in Navajo 1, the theory of IMLA is not to have the
Secretary be responsible or to take the lead in leasing
tribal lands for coal purposes. It's the tribe, subject
to the approval, and the Court concluded it would be
inconsistent with that arrangement for the Secretary to
second-guess the determinations that the secretary had
made. And the Court -- the argument was made there and
expressly rejected that the Secretary was required to
insist that the tribe negotiate a higher amount when it
renegotiated the lease.
JUSTICE ALITO: The Secretary has to apply
some standard, presumably. What is it?
GEN. KNEEDLER: What -- what the secretary
has adopted -- has done is by regulation, is to say that
-- that there is a minimum that the tribe cannot go
below. At the time -- at the time of the renegotiation
of this lease in 1987, from 1984 to 1987, there was a
minimum of 10 percent or 10 cents per ton. The tribe
was getting 37.5 cents per ton. This lease was
renegotiated in connection with a clause in the lease
that allowed adjustments for reasonable rates, which is
not the same thing as maximizing the tribe's -- the
tribe's revenues, so the Secretary had a regulation at
the time of 10 cents per ton. The Secretary now has a
regulation that says the minimum royalty rate will be
12.5 percent, which, as Court pointed out in Navajo 1,
is the standard royalty rate for Federal and tribal
leases throughout the United States.
Now, what is significant, in further
response to your question, is that regulation states
that that minimum rate is 12.5 percent unless the
Secretary determines that a lower rate would be in the
best interest of the Indians. So the way this works
then, the way the Secretary has implemented it, it's
basically up to the tribe to negotiate something at or
above the minimum. If it's below the minimum that the
Secretary's prescribed, the Secretary has to make a
judgment that that going lower, maybe because of a
geological conditions or whatever, is in the best
interest of the Indians. And that is -- that is borne
out --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that in IMLA or is that
in the Rehabilitation Act?
GEN. KNEEDLER: That's in IMLA. That's an
IMLA regulation. The general regulations that implement
the Rehabilitation Act have a similar provision. They
don't talk about royalties, which I think is telling
because royalties have to do with coal leases. They
talk about -- they require it be a fair rental for
property, not a maximum rental but a fair rental. And
then it has the same sort of thing, that if it's going
to be below the fair market value it has to be in the
best interest of the Indians.
And I think it's instructive that I know
there's been an argument that this lease is governed by
-- by the Rehabilitation Act rather than IMLA, and
notwithstanding what this Court held in Navajo 1 six
years ago, but in 1999 when Secretary Babbitt, who
joined the brief arguing this is covered by the
Rehabilitation Act, approved the amendments to the lease
in 1999, he approved it under the IMLA regulations and
he specifically said that because the minimum royalty
rate is 12.5 percent -- he is quoting the applicable
regulation -- "I do not have to decide whether the
royalty rate is in the best interest of the Indians."
He went on to say: "But I think it is."
So secretary Babbitt's approval of those
amendments really explains the way the Secretary has
implemented the statutory scheme, and we think that's
certainly well within the Secretary's discretion under a
statute that did not impose any limitations. With
respect to the Rehabilitation Act, the general leasing
provision of that act, as we've explained in our brief,
does not apply to mineral leases. That continued to be
governed by IMLA after 1950. But even if it did, there
is nothing in section 5 that imposes any more specific
duties with respect to royalty terms or any other terms
than IMLA itself. Section 5 has to do with surface --
leases for surface users, business purposes basically.
And that was put in there because at the time there was
no provision for long-term leases if somebody wanted to
bring a surface commercial venture onto a reservation.
But the last sentence of section 5 of the --
of the act on page 171a of the petition appendix says
that: "Nothing contained in section 5 shall affect the
authority" -- "shall be construed to repeal or affect
the authority under any other act of Congress." So
section -- and the other act of Congress here is IMLA.
I think it's also -- I think it's also
instructive to point out not only did this Court hold
the last time around that the lease was governed by
IMLA, that was the tribe's position in this case. Its
proposed findings of fact indeed in the Court of Federal
Claims, pages 524 and 525 of the joint appendix, said
the lease was governed by IMLA.
But the textual dispositive point is that
the lease couldn't have been entered into under the
Rehabilitation Act. The lease in this case provided
that the lease would be for a term of 10 years and then
subject to a further extension for as long as minerals
are produced in paying quantities. That precise
language is repeated in the lease, which shows that it
was under IMLA.
Under section 5 of the Rehabilitation Act,
the lease could only be for an initial term of 25 years
and then a further term of 25 more years. It wouldn't
have allowed for this sort of lease here and indeed,
because the initial lease term here was 10 years and
then could have only been 25 more years under the Rehab
Act, this lease would have had to expire in 1999, and
yet it was amended at that time and continues in effect
and mining continues under it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The other side says that
certain standard provisions in the IMLA leases did not
exist in this lease. Is that accurate?
GEN. KNEEDLER: No. Well, they said -- I
think -- the only thing I think they say along those
lines is that -- has to do with the form of the lease.
JUSTICE SCALIA: With the forms?
GEN. KNEEDLER: The form on which the lease
is used. I think what they said is there were several
provisions that appear in regulations under general
statutes that are related to leases. One has to do with
the property can't be used for unlawful purposes, and
I'm forgetting what the second one was. But it wouldn't
be unusual that the Secretary might borrow or a tribe
might borrow provisions from other leases and put them
in this lease.
This is -- again, IMLA provides for
negotiation. So the parties are free to put in
particular provisions of lease. So that the fact that
there might be things that would parallel what were in
the other leases we don't think is really dispositive.
Also, the other significant thing is that
the lease itself incorporates or refers to by reference
the IMLA regulations. So even if somehow the lease were
thought to be governed by Section 5, even though that
wasn't what it was issued under, the IMLA regulations
would control, and this Court already held in Navajo 1
that those IMLA regulations, which are in the lease, do
not impose any -- did not impose any -- did not impose
any duty on the Secretary with respect to the approval,
approval of the lease.
I should also point out that when the -- we
cite this in our briefs, that at the time the lease
amendments were approved in 1987 the Solicitor's Office
did a legal review of the propriety of the lease
amendments and that legal review expressly says that the
lease was entered into under IMLA.
So I think the circumstances are really
overwhelming that it was entered into under IMLA and
that the Rehabilitation Act lease provision does not
have anything to do with this lease. And the more
general emanation from the Rehabilitation Act that the
tribe seeks to rely on here are too general and short.
The Rehabilitation Act was enacted in 1950 in
recognition that the plight of the Navajo and Hopi was
very serious, and Congress undertook to study resources
and put in the infrastructure and that sort of thing,
and part of it was to have programs -- excuse me --
studies to determine what the tribe's coal resources
were, and that was done, and this lease grew out of
that. But that doesn't mean that it was in any way
governed by the Rehabilitation Act.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Kneedler, the
last time -- the last time around, we remanded for
further proceedings consistent with our opinion. Would
you advocate a different bottom line this time?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Yes. I would -- I would
suggest that this case be reversed. I mean this -- this
concerns a -- outright and with directions to dismiss
the complaint. This -- this controversy arose in the
mid-1980's. The litigation has been going on since
1993, and it's been -- this is now the second time that
it's been -- that it's been to this Court.
And we think in doing so that the -- that
the Court should reiterate the analytical framework that
it put forward in -- in its decision the last time
around so that there will be no mistaking the way these
cases are to be handled in the Federal circuit in the
future by requiring that the threshold, a -- as I said,
a specific statutory or regulatory provision that
imposes duties and not in particular looking at general
notions of common law that -- that might arise out of --
out of some sort of -- some sort of factual control.
The last thing I wanted to say is that the
Federal circuit also relied on the Surface Mining
Reclamation and Control Act. And that -- and that, as I
said, has to do with environmental issues in connection
with -- with Indian leases. The Federal circuit relied
on a provision that says that the -- that the Secretary
should include in any Indian leases additional
provisions that were proposed by the tribe. But that's
additional provisions in addition to other environmental
provisions extending from the statute that had to be in
the lease. It was -- it was just quite a stretch for
the -- for the court to conclude that that somehow
controlled the economic terms of the leases.
If there are no further questions, I will
reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Phillips.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
I think I would like to start with Justice
Alito's question because he said: Doesn't Section 5 of
the Rehabilitation Act specifically require the
Secretary to approve this lease? And Mr. Kneedler
conceded that it does. And so then the question is:
Doesn't that create some kind of a duty? And it seems
to me clearly it does, just as the Court I think
implicitly said in Navajo 1, the difference between
Navajo 1 and Navajo 2 being that this Court then went on
to examine IMLA, the Indian Mineral Leasing Act.
It concluded that IMLA very specifically for
the entirety of native Americans and for the entirety of
Indian mineral leasing had a preference to ensure that
the Indian tribes themselves would -- would attain a
certain self sufficiency. And it essentially advocated
the responsibility of having to deal with individual
negotiations and allowed it for the tribes to take over.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But, Mr. Phillips, I'm
looking at the last paragraph, and it says: We have no
warrant from any relevant statute or regulation, et
cetera. So it wasn't limited to IMLA. Do you think
that was just carelessness on the Court's part?
MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, I would -- I would never
assume that, Justice Ginsburg. I -- I think -- I think
the operative term here is "relevant." And that is that
the Court for purposes of analyzing the question
presented and disposing of it evaluated not only IMLA
but the other two provisions that the -- that the
government and the Court felt needed to be disposed of
at that point.
The Court didn't address the alternative
arguments under either Macrow or the Rehabilitation Act.
To be sure, they were argued. But I -- I have seen many
instances in which alternative arguments were made, and
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand your
answer. If you say that those were not relevant and,
therefore, they were not covered --
MR. PHILLIPS: Not relevant to the question
presented, which is the proper interpretation of the --
the Indian Mineral Leasing Act. And, indeed, if you
look at the other two provisions, the opinion of the
Court analyzing them through the -- through the prism of
the Indian Mineral Leasing Act, it says those don't add
to the Indian Mineral Leasing Act.
Our argument here is that Section 5 of the
Rehabilitation Act provides a wholly independent basis
on which there is a duty imposed, but that duty is then
implemented in the regulations that are identified in
the -- in the Secretary's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: In the Rehabilitation Act,
the requirements for approval of lease, is -- is that
applicable to mineral leases?
MR. PHILLIPS: Is that applicable to mineral
leases?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. PHILLIPS: Absolutely, it's applicable
to mineral leases. The -- the language of the statute
is "business leases, including those for the development
of mineral resources." So clearly it applies to Indian
mineral leases, but --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Where is
the specific reference to mineral leases, mineral
resources?
MR. PHILLIPS: Mineral resources.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It says "resources."
I don't remember it saying "mineral resources."
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, the development of the
"resources" for the Navajo and Hopi Indians.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a big
difference, don't you think?
MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry. The development
for utilization of natural resources.
But the basic point there is, at least as I
read section 5, what it's saying is that it grants broad
leasing authority. The Solicitor General is absolutely
right about that. But that authority extends to certain
kinds of mineral leasing.
And that says -- and that's an authority and
it's important to recognize this. Because while it is
true for the run-of-the-mill Native Americans who are --
who are engaged in mineral leasing it may make sense to
say: Look, we -- we are going to take a hands-off
approach for the most part. We are going to set a
minimum ceiling or a minimum floor and above that you
negotiate as hard as you want.
But the -- but the Navajo were in a
fundamentally different position in 1950 when this
legislation was enacted. The -- the median education on
that -- on that reservation was less than one year of
education.
The resources were $400 per year annual
income. This was a tribe in horrible condition. And so
it would make perfect sense for Congress to say: Look,
for -- for most tribes we want to go ahead and have the
approval be based with the -- with the Secretary taking
a hands-off approach above a certain minimum, but when
you deal with the Navajo --
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it your -- is it your
position that it would be -- that it -- it is not lawful
for coal on the Navajo Reservation to be leased under
IMLA, that the lease would have to be solely under
section 5 of the Rehabilitation --
MR. PHILLIPS: No, I don't think it would
have to be solely under it. I -- I think that's a -- a
false dichotomy. I don't think this is an either/or
proposition. I think there are parts of IMLA that can
reasonably be applied here, and -- and section 5
specifically says no authority from other statutes,
which would include IMLA, is meant to be superseded by
the passage of section 5. So I think there is a rule.
And I think that the lease -- if you read the
lease on its face -- Justice Scalia asked the question:
Does this lease conform to the form lease that you get
under IMLA? The answer is clearly not.
This is a mix and match between some
provisions, it seems to me, that clearly provides
additional protection for the Navajo and other
provisions that --
JUSTICE ALITO: But the lease -- the lease
doesn't follow the -- the requirements of section 5 of
the Rehabilitation Act in -- in respect to its term.
But what is your -- is it your position that in entering
into a lease the tribe has the authority to decide that
we want this to be under IMLA; we want this to be under
the Rehabilitation Act? When it comes up to the
Secretary for approval, does the Secretary have the
authority to say, I'm going to approve this under IMLA;
I'm going to approve it under section 5?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think the Secretary has to
approve it under both of those provisions. It is just
that IMLA in this particular context would impose a
10-cent minimum over time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you do about the
fact that the term of this lease would -- would not be
permitted under the Rehabilitation Act?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think it would be permitted
under the Rehabilitation Act because the last sentence
of section 5 specifically says that this is not meant to
limit any other authority provided under any other
statute. And since IMLA provides additional time and
durational protections for the tribes under these
circumstances, that provision would definitely allow you
to use IMLA's time limits rather than the Rehabilitation
Act.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. Explain to me the --
the relevant scope of IMLA and the Rehab Act. The --
the argument that you made, that you just made, makes
perfect sense if the Rehab Act applies to some kinds of
-- of leases or contracts that the -- that the IMLA does
not.
And yet I -- I thought you were saying a
little bit earlier that the Rehab Act applies to all
mineral leasing, because that would be the development
of the natural resource. And if that is so, then there
seems to be a pretty clear conflict, even on your own
argument, between the term provisions in the Rehab Act
and the term provisions of IMLA with respect to -- to
mineral leases. How do -- how do we get out of that
problem for you?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. I think the -- the key
distinction is to look at the -- at who is being
regulated, and under the Rehabilitation act it's the
Navajo and the Hopi. And -- and Congress said, look, we
are going to take special care to protect and to try to
put them into a position where they can even just catch
up to other Native Americans.
And so it seems to me that there is --
that's a special protection with a special duty, and
that duty is enforced through the 162 regulations.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it's a special
protection and special duty that applies to every one of
the mineral leases, including this one, that the Navajo
may be involved in.
MR. PHILLIPS: Correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So I -- what -- maybe --
maybe I missed the point, but would you go back to
justice Scalia's question: How is it that there is not
a conflict here between this lease and the Rehab Act?
MR. PHILLIPS: Because the last section
under section 5 says that, notwithstanding anything
else, this provision doesn't preclude -- doesn't --
doesn't limit the authority that would otherwise exist.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that, in effect -- but
that, in effect, is saying this -- this provision will
never apply to a mineral lease with the Navajo or the
Hopi. I mean, you are reading it right out of the act
with respect to these two tribes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is all that the
Rehabilitation Act -- I'm sorry.
MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry, it's because the
provision applies to a lot of other leases, too. Are
you asking when the 20 or 10 and 10.
JUSTICE SOUTER: With respect -- my point is
with respect to every mineral lease of the Hopi and the
Navajo, you are saying the term provision never applies.
Am I correct --
MR. PHILLIPS: No, I understand. Right. I
have the answer your question which is this provision in
section 5 applies not just to mineral lease, it applies
to all business site leasing.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it only applies to
those two tribes. And there is something very, very
strange, it seems to me, in saying that the -- that the
kind of -- the saving sentence at the end of section 5
reads its very term limit provisions out of every -- out
of every possible application for mineral lease by these
two tribes. And that's what you are saying.
MR. PHILLIPS: But -- but -- but the
important distinction -- and I hope I can articulate
this -- is that section 5 applies beyond mineral leases.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I realize that.
MR. PHILLIPS: So that all -- so the time
limitation of 10 years and 10 years, if you bring a
barber shop, you want to build a barber shop on those
lands, you want to lease the space in order to do that,
you would be subject to the section 5 time limitations,
unless for some reason there is another authorization
somewhere.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. But that, in effect,
means that -- and I don't want to overdo your barber
shop analysis or example, but that, in effect, says --
MR. PHILLIPS: I need a haircut.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- on -- on trivial lease
contracts there are term limits, but on the ones that
really count, where the real money is, doesn't apply at
all.
MR. PHILLIPS: There is a -- way beyond that
there is an entire defense plant on the Navajo tribe --
on the Navajo reservation right now that would obviously
be subject to precisely these same limitations. So it's
not just trivial, it's all business lease citing that is
covered why that.
So it seems to me not at all unreasonable to
think that Congress, in its -- in its very protective
effort here under section 5 would say, here are all the
leases that you are allowed to enter into. You have
broad leasing authority, we are going to protect you
against overreaching by restricting how long you can go,
but if there are other provisions of law that allow
these to be modified in a particular area, we will allow
those to be modified in that way.
And in this context, what that last sentence
would, in my mind, say is there is no reason to try
and -- to say that IMLA or the Rehabilitation Act. It
seems to me much more sensible to say that Congress
would have intended multiple protections for the Navajo.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Let's assume that, and I --
I -- I think your argument is well taken. But assuming
that, don't we also have to assume that the stress in
IMLA on placing primary responsibility on the tribes,
not on the Secretary should, in fact, also be imported
to the application of the Rehab Act as you say it should
be applied.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. But you see I don't
think that's an authority. I would say -- I would not
read --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What's not an authority?
MR. PHILLIPS: The notion that the Navajo
tribe would be in a position to better -- to better --
to -- I'm sorry, to achieve self-sufficiency.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. You made a good
argument a few moments ago for the fact that it would
have been at least at one time inappropriate to thrust
that responsibility on the Navajo, but there was no
Navajo exception in IMLA. That responsibility was
thrust on the Navajo --
MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sure there isn't --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- and this Court
recognized that.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. But that's exactly
why the Navajo Rehabilitation Act of 1950 does modify
IMLA.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: With respect to that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Expired --
MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- the opinion in the
last time around not only contained the statement that I
read before, that is, any relevant statute, but in the
very beginning it says, "We hold the tribe's claim for
compensation from the federal government failed," and
there is a well known distinction between a claim at
issue and attributing to the Court that kind of
carelessness for saying that the claim is barred as
distinguished from an issue, the issue being IMLA. I
think the Court was conscious of that distinction when
it used the word that the claim failed, not just the
issue.
MR. PHILLIPS: Obviously, Justice Ginsburg,
you are in a much better position to judge what was
intended here. On the other hand, my experience with
the Court generally is that when you analyze a case,
that you analyze it in terms of the specific question
that is presented, and if you are posing to go beyond
the question presented, you say so expressly, not simply
by the use of the word "claim" or "argument."
So while I recognize that the Court -- that
the government has an argument to be made that has
pre-decided that, I think, frankly, one, the Court
didn't decide this issue; and two, the Court should
decide the question that was presented here as to the
scope of section 5, because it's obviously of
extraordinary importance to not only section 5 but also
to section 8 as well.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Phillips, the
government says that by the time this lease was
executed, the Rehabilitation Act was a dead letter.
That it was meant to stimulate economic activity on the
Navajo reservation, and there were funds appropriated
for that purpose and that all had been played out by the
time this lease was entered into.
Is there something wrong with that?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yeah, the government's wrong
about that. I believe -- the program itself is for the
overall rehabilitation of the Navajo and the Hopi.
There are a series of projects that the -- where the
statute says such programs shall include the following
projects. It doesn't say it's limited to the following
projects, and those projects have been set out over
time.
But the program itself is not limited that
way and more fundamentally, it is completely
inconsistent with that kind of time limitation on the
statute overall. Congress would have repealed certain
sections of this act, sections 9 and 10 after the
10-year period that expired if the statute didn't have
any continuing implication.
It also would have meant that the leasing
protections in section 5 had expired after 10 years,
which seems to me quite inconsistent with the overall
purpose here to accomplish that. So I think the
temporal argument doesn't get the government
particularly far.
I would like to take a second to talk about
sort what I think is an important distinction between
635 and other provisions, which is that 634(a) imposes a
duty that the Secretary's brief, I think, evidently sets
out, that duty means that you have to make sure there is
fair market value, that those are reasonable rates, and
that was not done. So that's the violation that took
place.
Then the question is, is there a
money-generating, money-mandating obligation imposed
here. And there it seems to be the distinction between
635(a), which said nothing about liability, and 635(b)
and (c), which expressly -- expressly excludes the
possibility of liability, suggests clearly why 635(a)
ought to be viewed by this Court as a sufficient -- as
creating a fair inference, is what the Court said in
Mitchell two, a fair inference under these particular
circumstances.
The other issue that we have put on the
table that the government didn't actually address in its
opening, although I have to suspect --
JUSTICE BREYER: So you are saying that
635(a) creates an inference that 635(c) creates a
fiduciary duty?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, 635(a) creates the
fiduciary duties. The juxtaposition of (a) to (b) and
(c) demonstrates that that duty is a money-mandating or
rights-creating duty that's enforceable under the Indian
Tucker Act, Justice Breyer.
The other duty, it seems to me, that the
Secretary breached there is the duty embedded in section
8 of this statute, which requires him to make
disclosures as part of this program. And the one thing
that is absolutely clear that the Court of Federal
Claims --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the part that I'm
not getting. You are saying -- the question, I guess,
basically is, does the language of 635(a) that says with
the approval of the Secretary, the Indians can, among
other things, for business purposes lease the land.
Right? That's what it says?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And then --
JUSTICE BREYER: And that doesn't seem much
different from the IMLA, to tell you the truth, to me.
It doesn't seem different at all. But now you are
saying, no, it's really different because look at (b)
and (c), that's your basic argument?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: I look at (b) and (c) and
it says -- when you lease something under (b) and (c)
which is not (a) -- (b) and (c) -- you have to have this
all supervision, and so forth, or it has to be at a fair
value, something like that; is that right?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it doesn't -- it
doesn't --
JUSTICE BREYER: (B) and (c) say that land is
owned in fee but, let's see -- what is -- sorry, I don't
want to delay you on this. I thought that (b) and (c),
you were saying, create an obligation -- create more of
a trust obligation.
MR. PHILLIPS: No, just to read (b) which
unfortunately isn't reproduced I don't think in any of
the papers, but it says notwithstanding any other
provision of law, land owned in fee simple by the Navajo
may be leased, sold or otherwise disposed of by the sole
authority of the tribal council in any manner that a
similar land in this State is situated may be leased,
sold or otherwise disposed of by other private land
owners, and the -- such disposition shall create no
liability on the part of the United States.
JUSTICE BREYER: So why does that -- why
does that mean that this Act creates a trust
relationship?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, that -- the -- the trust
relationship doesn't come out of the PNC; the money
creating component of it, it seems to me comes, out of
PNC. The trust relationship comes from the fact that
the entirety of the statute was enacted to implement the
treaties, that these are all lands that are held in
trust, and that -- and that there is a specific duty
embedded in (a) that requires that the Secretary approve
what is otherwise basically controlled as a trust
arrangement, and that is implemented through regulations
that require the Secretary to do this under a fair
market value standard.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, give me an -- an
instance in the statute that is in opposition brief of
the orange brief at page 5. Give me an example of why
the last clause "and such disposition shall create no
liability on the part of the United States," what
contingency was that directed to if not the one that is
before us?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, that's for the sale of
fee simple lands, so you are dealing with a very
different set of -- of circumstances. Which is talking
about -- it's aimed clearly at a different set of
properties that were being held and therefore they said,
when you engage in leases for that kind of property,
there is no liability.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But your -- your argument
is that simply because there isn't that kind of an
exclusion in (a), there must have been an intent to
permit liability.
MR. PHILLIPS: A fair inference, I think is
all I have to demonstrate --
JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you, but now what of
course is at the back of my mind is I'm trying to see,
if this -- is this statute stronger for you than the
statute we already considered? And I start with some
suspicion, because I think if it is a stronger statute
for you, you would have argued it the last time. So I
wonder why you didn't.
MR. PHILLIPS: I wasn't here then.
JUSTICE BREYER: So somebody thought maybe
it was a weaker statute, so -- but I will put that
suspicion aside.
MR. PHILLIPS: Can I ask you --
JUSTICE BREYER: So anyhow that's the
fundamental question in my mind. I look at the language
and so forth, but the language doesn't seem any stronger
for you, at least at first blush.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. There's two -- there
are two answers; I was being facetious as to why we
didn't push this argument the last time. It was largely
because the Federal Circuit concluded the last time
based on IMLA alone that there was in fact a sufficient
right-creating provision. And therefore we depended --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So did you, Mr. Phillips.
Last time around you acknowledged that the Peabody lease
was governed only by IMLA. That -- those words were
from your brief last time around.
MR. PHILLIPS: I don't know if those were
from the brief. I know there was a statement of
undisputed facts in the first round of litigation. But
there is no question in the Court -- if we are right,
that the Court remanded to -- from consideration
consistent with this. We then went down upon remand
from the Federal Circuit; we took additional discovery;
and we obtained the information that we got. And also,
remember, the United States' brief in the Ninth Circuit
specifically says that this was approved pursuant to the
Rehabilitation Act --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I thought -- you are
really saying that you were wrong in make that
concession.
MR. PHILLIPS: That was an overstatement,
there's no question. Based on what we knew at the time,
we thought it was in fact an IMLA lease, but in truth --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In -- IMLA --
MR. PHILLIPS: -- is it's not IMLA, anyway.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it is the statute
that seems most closely on point, because it's the only
one that talks about mineral leases exclusively.
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, but this is the only one
that deals specifically with the Navajo Reservation and
deals with leasing for business purposes for the
development of resources. And so while I -- I agree
with you in one sense, the other one has a -- some
superficial closeness here. It seems to me that the
closer one is actually the provision that deals with
this specific reservation and this specific type of a
lease arrangement.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you knew all of
that -- that's not -- that's not something you
discovered on remand. You knew all that before.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, we -- we obtained
additional information, certainly, you know. We have
the Udall declaration that specifically said that when
he negotiated this lease he negotiated it as the
centerpiece of the Navajo-Hopi Rehabilitation Act of
1950.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that affidavit
was before or after our decision the first time around?
MR. PHILLIPS: It was after the first time
around. I mean, there is no question that if we had won
the first time around, we would have stood by that
statement, but having lost it --
(Laughter.)
MR. PHILLIPS: -- there is a tendency to
focus the mind elsewhere, and we did. But the reality
is that if you look at the parties, the -- Secretary
Udall specifically says this was adopted pursuant to the
Rehabilitation Act. Peabody Coal Company in briefing in
the Arizona courts has specifically said that this was
approved under the Rehabilitation Act, and the United
States Government itself in briefing in other courts has
said that this was approved pursuant to the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You bring in Federal
officials to testify years after the fact as to what
basis they acted earlier? That's very strange to me. I
don't know what -- what motive Secretary Udall has today
that might induce him to say that.
MR. PHILLIPS: Obviously --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If there was some statement
at the time, I could understand it, but bringing him in
how many years after -- 40 years after?
MR. PHILLIPS: He has a good memory,
Justice Scalia.
(Laughter.)
MR. PHILLIPS: No, Justice Scalia, I
understand that, but the -- the bottom line here is, the
question is, is this, you know -- is it absolutely clear
that this is exclusively an IMLA lease? And the answer
to that is there is a lot of evidence that suggests no.
It's not in the form of IMLA; there are a lot from other
statements that say yes, and more fundamentally it seems
to me is the Court should not view it as an either/or
proposition. It could be adopted under IMLA or it could
be adopted separately. So the section 8 argument --
JUSTICE ALITO: I thought that your argument
earlier was that all leases of mineral rights on the
Navajo-Hopi land are governed by the Rehabilitation Act,
and it's not a factual question as to which statute
anybody chose at the time of the negotiation of the
lease. But recently, in the last few minutes, you seem
to be arguing that it was a factual issue that was --
that was unearthed only through later discovery.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I don't know that it's
a factual question; it is that candidly, we obviously
focused more on IMLA because the Federal Circuit --
first of all, the Court of Federal Claims in the first
go-around adopted IMLA as the test and just said you
lose because you don't have an IMLA lease here; and we
had argued here that it's not just an IMLA lease. Then
we went to the Federal Circuit and we won on the grounds
that it was an IMLA controlled error and we should
prevail on that basis. When it was sent back down and
we obviously didn't have IMLA available, since the
Federal Circuit specifically precluded us from any
further reliance on IMLA, we looked at the other
provisions; we tried to understand their context, and
then that -- all I'm trying to do is explain why it is
that we would suddenly focus more on the Navajo act, not
to say that you couldn't read the statute and say it
would necessarily apply in that circumstance.
JUSTICE BREYER: That isn't really my
question, because I've tried to erase from my mind any
suspicion about why you did or didn't argue it last
time; and looking at it straight afresh, I think when
the Court of Claims got this back, as any judge would,
the first thing they do is look at the words of the old
statute, look at the words of the new statute, and try
to figure out if the new statute that you cited is
somehow more supportive of your claim than the old one
was.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So what have we got
here in that respect? What we seem to have is two later
provisions that say the government shall have no
liability when it enters into leases. I mean, maybe
that helps you, but at the moment, I am slightly
escaping it. And then I guess there is some regs that
were promulgated after the lease was entered into and
seem on their face to deal with other matters. Okay,
now, what am I missing?
MR. PHILLIPS: I'm not sure I understand the
last part about --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well the regs you didn't
emphasize, so forget them. If you don't want to rely on
them we won't.
The -- but I've looked for everything I
could find that would support you on this basis --
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and there you are, so I
want to you add something to explain --
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I would go back to
Justice Alito's first question that was posed to Mr.
Kneedler, which was is this provision has a duty --
because it has an approval requirement; and the answer
is yes, this Court in Navajo I looked further at IMLA,
at that specific statute, and concluded that that
statute overall had a very significant limitation
embedded in that duty; and the question is, is there
anything in the Rehabilitation Act that has that same
limitation?
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MR. PHILLIPS: And my answer to that is no,
there is nothing in it; and contrary to the overall
intent of IMLA, which was to guarantee self-sufficiency,
the overall intent of this statute was to allow the
Navajo to come somewhere in the area of those standards.
In addition to that, I do think there are regulations
that do require the Secretary to invoke a fair market
value assessment of the rates that are embedded in this
lease, and that he did not -- he clearly did not do
that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even if you are
right about the duty-creating aspect, what -- talk a
little about the money-mandating aspect, the second
stage of the analysis under Navajo I.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I -- I think the key to
that is -- is sort of two-fold. One, I think when you
-- in the absence of some clear statement in this
statute akin to the one that existed in IMLA, that
reduces the duty of the United States, that the Court
ought to then simply examine this against the background
of the trust principles and say you have a duty; you
ought to exercise your duty consistent with your role as
a trustee; and you ought to -- you ought to be acting in
the best interests of the Navajo Nation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before we find a
waiver of sovereign immunity opening up the Treasury of
the United States, we usually insist on something a
little more specific than general trust principles.
MR. PHILLIPS: And then the second -- I
mean, if you are not prepared to accept the general
trust principles, although, again, they go through the
context of a specific imposed duty that -- that 635(a)
has in the first instance. But even if you want to go
beyond that, then I go to 635(b) and (c), where Congress
clearly seems to have in mind the possibility of not
having liability imposed in certain circumstances and
yet left 635(a) there without a similar protection for
the United States, which, again, may not be the
compelled inference, but it certainly seems to me to
create a fair inference.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's not how
the Secretary reads 635. Isn't he entitled to Chevron
deference?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, unless you are saying
that -- I don't know what context Mr. Chief Justice was
talking about. I mean -- but to be sure, lawyers don't
want to read it that way because they are in litigation
right now. But I don't see anything in the statutory
scheme or in the regulatory scheme that would say that.
And certainly, if you go back and look at the
Secretary's brief, in their analysis of the regulatory
scheme, the -- let me see if I can find this -- page 25
to 26, where they point out that there was a gap where
-- where the Secretary did not exclude mineral leasing
from the 635 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What did Secretary Udall
think about this?
MR. PHILLIPS: He's fully on board, Justice
Scalia.
(Laughter.)
MR. PHILLIPS: It's not in the brief.
I'll just conclude with the section (a)
argument, which is to recognize that the Secretary did
owe a duty of candor and disclosure embedded in section
(a). That program did not end. That disclosure
responsibility did not end. What the measure of damages
for that breach of duty is a question that obviously is
still open on remand. But the notion that the Secretary
can behave the way the Secretary did in this case, which
is to know that he was not going to take personal
jurisdiction over the final decision, command that no
decision be made, leave the Navajo in a state of
distress under those circumstances, force them to
negotiate with one hand tied behind their back at a
minimum, and then handed up an agreement that was half
what the fair market value would have been for the
quality of coal is an outrage, and the Court ought to
allow the damages action to go forward.
If there are no further questions, I urge
the Court to affirm.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Phillips.
Mr. Kneedler, you have nine minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
GEN. KNEEDLER: First, Mr. Chief Justice,
with respect to the text of section 5, it doesn't -- it
doesn't by any means suggest that it covers mineral
leases. The pertinent phrase is that they -- that the
tribe or members of the tribe "may lease" -- "with the
approval of the Secretary, may lease for various
religious, recreational, or business purposes, including
the development" of utilization -- "or utilization of
natural resources in connection with the operations
under those leases." It's not a free-standing mineral
lease or resource lease provision. It says, "including"
and "in connection with operations under such leases,"
referring back to business leases or the other things
there. So I think, on its face, it doesn't suggest it
covers mineral leases.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that --
GEN. KNEEDLER: But --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it says "the
development or utilization of natural resources."
GEN. KNEEDLER: "In connection with
operations under such leases." And -- and what's above,
a recitation of things that don't include mineral
leases. It's educational, recreational, and business
leases. And as we explained, there are specific --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, why isn't it a
public purpose to develop Indian minerals? That
benefits the Indians and whole country.
GEN. KNEEDLER: It says "business"
purposes," and as such --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, it says "public."
GEN. KNEEDLER: "For public, religious" --
"public" would be like for a school, if a State was
going to put a school on or something, but -- but the --
but as we explain in our brief, there was a specific
reason why Congress enacted this. There was a gap in
the authority to lease for these types of purposes at
the time this was enacted.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And why didn't --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, even if -- if I may
have just one minute, Justice Souter.
If you get revenue from the natural
resources, why isn't that a public, religious,
educational purpose? They get revenue from leasing.
GEN. KNEEDLER: The -- the example would be
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just -- I just think you
give too cramped a reading to section 5.
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well, the example would be,
if you -- for example, if you were going to use water --
this is a Navajo reservation -- if you needed water for
a business and sink a well, you would be utilizing or
developing the natural resources in connection with a
surface lease. But -- but the last section of -- the
last sentence of section 5 says, "Nothing in this
section shall be construed to repeal or affect the
authority under other provisions." And it's the other
provision that is IMLA. The regulations --
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I just supplement
Justice Kennedy's question? Why can't the development
of the mineral leases be regarded as an adjunct to a
business enterprise?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I mean business purposes.
I --
GEN. KNEEDLER: I -- I suppose they could,
but in -- in the terminology, mineral leasing, as we
explain in our brief -- that the categories of leasing
that are -- have always been handled differently.
"Mineral leasing" is the term that is used for minerals.
Business, grazing, farming -- we explain this in our
brief, that those are different. The regulations that
were utilized to implement section 5 had never included
specific provisions for mineral leases. They have
always been under other -- other provisions.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do the regs specifically
address the scope of business purposes?
GEN. KNEEDLER: They -- they -- not beyond
basically repeating them, but the -- but they, for
example, talk about rental value, which is not the way
you describe mineral leases, which are -- which are
royalties, not rental value.
If I could also address the argument about
sections (b) and (c), sections (b) and (c) of this Act
provide -- first of all, were enacted after section (a),
so I don't think much of an inference could be drawn.
But there are situations -- special types of conveyances
that the tribe was going to make: One was for fee land
that it was -- that it was transferring. There would be
no reason to think the United States should be liable
for that, for what it did with the tribe did with its
own fee land, and Congress wanted to make sure of that.
The other was that the tribe could convey trust land to
municipalities and that sort of thing, and what the
statute says thereafter the United States won't be
liable. The United States was just making sure it was
washing its hands of it.
Under section (a), we aren't saying that
there could be no lease under which it could conceivably
be for a business purpose in which the United States
could be liable. If there was a regulation establishing
a minimum floor and the lease terms went below that,
then that might be a circumstance in which liability
could be imposed.
But otherwise, Justice Breyer is completely
correct: This statute on its face imposes no more of a
duty on the Secretary with respect to the approval of
whatever leases are covered than IMLA imposed on the
Secretary with with respect to -- with respect to
mineral leases.
And -- and another important point is, as
this Court pointed out in the Cotton Petroleum and
Montana v. Blackfeet Tribe, the IMLA was enacted to
bring uniformity to mineral leasing. And the notion
that Congress would have implicitly wanted to
specifically carve the Navajo and Hopi out of that
general authorization and that preexisting set of
regulations and cover it by -- by a provision like this
we think is just not consistent with the way Congress
has dealt with mineral leases over the -- over the
years.
I also just wanted to come back to this idea
of -- of imposing liability on the basis of the common
law, because the example of what the Federal Circuit did
in this case, with all respect to that court, we think
strayed so far from what this Court laid down in Navajo
I, that it's important for this Court, however it thinks
it disposed of this case before, to make clear that
liability cannot be imposed unless, as this Court said
in Navajo, there is -- there is a specific
rights-creating or duty-imposing language in the statute
itself. The theory that has been adopted in some lower
courts -- Federal circuit court decisions, which you can
look at -- a hodgepodge of statutes, one dealing with
environmental concerns, one dealing with rights-of-way,
one dealing with this -- add them all up and say the
United States has control and, therefore, out of that
sort of bucket of statutes, you can impose trust
responsibilities. That's fundamentally inconsistent
with the Tucker Act, which requires that the liability
be based on the statutes themselves, and you have to
look at each statute and each regulation that governs
the United States in Indian affairs in the same way,
under the Tucker Act, you would look at the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: General Kneedler --
GEN. KNEEDLER: -- United States elsewhere
to decide whether it was --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Can I ask one question? I
probably should have asked earlier. But there is no
dispute as the case comes to us. I know the government
has taken the position that there was no breach of
trust. But do we -- we do have to decide it on the
assumption that there was a breach of trust that caused
all this damage?
GEN. KNEEDLER: No, no. I think that's not
at all correct. With respect to the approval of the
lease terms in 1987 -- under a provision that provided
for "reasonable" lease adjustments, the Secretary
approved leases negotiated by the tribe at 12.5 percent.
The tribe entered into two other leases at the very same
time, although not the subject of this case, for 12.5
percent. That's the standard royalty rate. And the
tribe got other benefits from this as a package. With
respect to the arguments about what the Secretary did on
-- on appeal, it's even clearer that all this
information about the Secretary meeting with Peabody's
lobbyist, it was before the Court before, and the Court
found no violation of any statute or regulation. But
it's even clearer on remand, as we point out on page 22
of our reply brief, that the tribe was fully aware that
the Secretary was not going to -- had -- had said the
appeal was not going to be acted on and had sent the
parties back to negotiations. In fact, when Chairman
Zah of the tribe opened the negotiations on August 30 of
1985, he said, "It appears that the Secretary wants us
to take another shot at negotiating the lease." He knew
what --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not sure that's
responsive to justice Stevens's question. I mean, you
are arguing the merits, but those haven't been decided.
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well, what the -- what the
Court of Federal Claims said along those lines was a
legal conclusion, not a factual conclusion. And the --
the facts as described are really what they were before
when the Court found no violation.
And -- and as we say, it's clear factually
on remand that the tribe knew. But again, that was just
-- it's not a factual determination that has to be taken
as true. For one thing, it was summary judgment, not
factual findings. But it does -- it was just a legal
conclusion. And at that, it was the sort of legal
conclusion drawn from general notions of fiduciary
responsibility, nothing that has been channeled or
embodied or codified in a statute or regulation.
And we think to unleash the law to regulate
the day-to-day operations of a vast agency, like the
Interior Department, which has to operate by statutes
and regulations would be -- under Vermont Yankee and
this Court's other jurisprudence, would be -- would be
unwarranted for the courts to do and especially in a
waiver of sovereign immunity under the -- under the
Tucker Act to impose damages liability for the violation
of a procedural regulation. And, of course, the Court
pointed out the last time that there was no prohibition
against ex parte contracts for this sort of informal
adjudication, as there isn't across -- across the board
for government -- government activities.
If there are no further questions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, general,
the case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
56:1 52:25 allegedly 3:20 24:3 29:24 21:2,4 54:3
34:12 additional 19:6 47:7 27:12,16,20,20 arrangement
19:8 24:13 allowed 12:10 27:22 28:6 11:19 36:11
adjunct 49:25 14:7 17:10,12 approval 3:14 aspect 44:16,17
5:13 6:6,9 12:10 53:22 23:1 26:12 11:6,12,18 44:12
administration amount 11:23 14:6 17:6,7 assume 20:19
9:10,18 9:6 analysis 10:16 21:22 23:16 29:18,20
11:9 administrative 28:17 44:18 24:22 34:17 assuming 29:19
13:7,10 7:22 8:5,7,12 46:5 43:22 47:21 assumption
14:11 8:14 9:10 analytical 18:16 51:21 53:20 53:17
15:1 adopted 7:13 analyze 31:12 approve 11:4,14 attain 20:9
12:3 40:10 31:13 19:24 24:23,24 attributing 31:3
41:11,12,25 analyzing 20:21 25:1 36:9 August 54:13
19:2,23 52:21 21:13 approved 10:25 authority 7:14
21:2,11 advocate 18:7 announced 5:25 13:24,25 17:10 9:23 14:25
advocated 20:10 annual 23:12 38:19 40:13,15 15:1 22:21,22
25:6 affairs 9:6,12 answer 21:7 53:23 22:24 24:4,19
53:7 24:10 27:19 arbitrary 9:14 24:23 25:10
26:2,8 affect 14:24,25 41:6 43:22 area 10:12 29:11 27:3 29:8 30:1
27:7,10 49:20 44:5 44:9 30:3 35:19
30:17 affidavit 39:25 answers 38:1 argue 42:16 49:1,21
34:7 affirm 47:9 anybody 41:17 argued 21:3 authorization
38:20 afresh 42:17 anyway 39:3 37:14 42:2 28:13 52:6
40:11,13 agency 9:22 appeal 54:4,11 arguing 13:23 available 42:6
42:11 55:10 appeals 6:23 41:19 54:19 aware 54:9
50:23 ago 3:11 13:22 7:18 argument 1:12 a.m 1:13 3:2
55:16 30:8 appear 16:11 2:2,7 3:4,7 55:25
aimed 36:24 appendix 14:23 29:19 30:8 35:4,9,11,14
47:7 ALITO 10:24 applicable 14:2 34:25 37:3 Babbitt 13:22
42:5,18 bottom 18:7 carelessness circuits 8:10 common 6:25
46:4 41:4 20:17 31:4 circumstance 7:9 9:20 18:23
48:3 bound 10:4 CARTER 1:18 42:13 51:17 52:12
54:12 breach 46:21 2:5 19:17 circumstances Company 40:11
breached 34:9 case 3:4 4:8 5:10 33:21 36:23 compensation
35:2,9,24 37:9 46:23 52:14,17 cited 42:21 completely
53:5 44:4 51:19 cases 7:17 8:24 5:21 6:1 7:19 conceded 19:25
14:12 33:7 cast 7:12 31:2,4,7,16 51:13
34:16 38:11,18 46:5 categories 50:7 claimant 3:17 concerns 18:10
50:18 46:15 48:24 caused 53:17 claims 7:23 15:8 52:24
11:5 briefing 40:11 centerpiece 42:18 54:21 38:23
40:18 40:14 39:23 clause 12:9 conclude 19:11
43:15 briefs 17:9 cents 12:7,8,13 36:17 46:16
bring 14:21 28:9 certain 16:3 clear 5:24 26:1 concluded 3:23
3:8 broad 22:20 45:15 54:25 concludes 5:22
47:15 29:8 certainly 8:24 clearer 54:4,8 conclusion
business 14:18 Chairman 54:12 45:14 conditions 13:3
14:4 29:2 34:18 channeled 55:7 closely 39:5 conflict 26:1,24
39:9 47:22 Chevron 45:21 closeness 39:12 conform 24:9
49:16 50:1,3 10:1 19:15,19 coal 6:3,8,14,18 9:19,22 10:11
31:14 39:16,25 44:15 13:12 17:25 23:14 26:9
50:17 C 45:4,20,24 23:21 40:11 29:5,16 32:19
candor 46:18 19:1,4 38:3,16 36:4,5 53:14 7:14
count 28:21 creating 33:19 determine 10:21 31:5
55:17 D 12:21 8:22
3:10,11,13,15 damage 53:18 developing doubt 7:12
4:24 5:1,5,7,9 7:10,24 8:21 development 55:6
45:1 5:22,24 6:1,23 47:7 55:16 25:24 39:10 25:12
7:4 10:15,19 day-to-day 9:5 47:23 48:9 duties 7:20
9:24 12:15 13:21 deal 9:8 20:11 difference 20:3 34:4
18:14,16 19:11 dealing 36:22 different 18:7 17:6 20:1
20:21,24 21:1 deals 39:8,9,13 34:24 36:23,24 26:15,17 33:7
42:9 31:19,20 33:18 24:19 31:20,21 directed 36:19 43:21 44:1,23
33:19 34:12 53:11,16 directions 18:10 44:25 45:1,11
41:24 42:18 decision 5:23 46:19 duty-creating
52:15,16,18,22 decisions 52:22 discovered 3:19 10:22
55:17 39:21 discovery 38:16 D.C 1:8,16,18
55:19 40:12,14 52:22 deference 45:22 discretion 7:19 E
18:24 6:20 7:7 10:14 demonstrate 5:12 40:18 41:14
53:1 20:17 55:13 37:8 dismiss 18:10 53:13
42:4 covered 13:23 34:5 35:18,21 52:17 4:14 6:11,14
51:22 1:16 8:14 disposition education 23:9
cramped 49:12 describe 50:20 15:10 16:22 48:13 49:8
51:20 35:12,12,22 determination distinction 10:2 2:3,8 3:7 47:14
36:17 45:19 9:16 55:2 26:7 28:5 31:2 effect 15:25 27:4
evaluated 20:22 48:4 51:20 55:4 55:22
41:7 fact 6:15 15:7 first 3:4 10:16
25:5
44:1,12 ex 55:19 29:22 30:8 40:1,2,4 41:24 G 1:18 2:5 3:1
exactly 30:16 36:5 38:4 39:1 41:24 42:19 19:17
examined 4:8 54:23 floor 23:5 51:16 3:7,9 4:9,16,20
36:6 36:16 49:9,13 41:16,19,22 focused 41:23 8:11,23 10:7
49:2 49:14 50:19 54:22 55:2,4 follow 24:16 11:2,11 12:2
52:2 52:13 factually 54:25 following 32:12 13:8 16:5,9
exclude 46:8 failed 31:1,7 force 47:2 48:7,10,18,21
32:6 executed 32:2 far 6:20 33:3 forms 16:8 9:20 10:8,9
53:24 executive 9:22 52:15 forth 35:5 37:23 13:9 14:11
expire 15:24 8:6 9:25 12:16 54:24 generally 8:3
19:3,8 explain 25:16 34:12 38:3,16 5:24 18:16 getting 12:8
42:10 43:18 40:16 41:23,24 frankly 31:19 34:15
17:12 31:15 fiduciary 8:4,19 37:22 give 36:14,16
extending 19:9 figure 42:21 23:8 32:17 go 12:4 23:15
extension 15:14 find 4:25 5:1 funds 32:4 31:14 43:19
23:3,4 11:14 13:21 55:15 7:1,18,21 9:6 41:19
26:10
36:7,25 implement 13:9 9:12 19:4,6 issued 17:2
46:24 helps 43:4 36:6 50:12 20:5,8,9 21:11 issues 6:7 19:3
49:14 higher 4:5 11:23 implemented 21:14,15 22:5
54:10,11 hodgepodge 12:23 14:8 34:6 48:16 J
13:19 hope 28:5 implicitly 20:3 14:4 22:14 42:18
15:5,9 Hopi 6:11 17:21 52:4 34:17 48:17 judgment 13:2
18:3 38:8 22:14 26:9 importance indicated 10:20 55:3
27:7,15 32:10 31:23 individual 20:11 judicial 9:13
9:3 20:24 Hopi-Navajo 28:5 33:5 inference 33:19 46:25
32:1 6:9 51:25 52:16 33:20 34:1
40:14
53:14 impose 3:22 50:25 55:13
I 10:11,22 11:1 informal 55:19 justice 1:16 3:3
identified 5:10 25:2 53:2 38:17 39:20 4:21 7:17 8:1,9
10:1,24
32:8
6:2,15 10:24 51:18,22 52:18 initial 15:19,22 19:15,19,21
13:6,8,9,20,25 14:15 18:22 45:6 21:21 22:1,7
24:5 32:12 31:11 30:3,7,14,19
42:1,2,4,6,8 inconsistent interpretation 38:21 39:2,4
52:2 incorporates 5:12 41:13 42:14,25
47:10,16 L leases 4:14 6:3 limit 25:10 27:3 35:19
laid 52:15 6:15 10:25 28:1 market 13:16
land 34:18 35:9 11:12 12:17 limitation 28:9 33:9 36:13
50:3,15 35:17,20,21 13:12 14:13,18 32:18 43:25 44:11 47:5
53:9,12 41:15 51:2,6,7 14:20 16:3,12 44:3 match 24:11
55:23 lands 7:21 11:17 16:16,22 19:4 limitations matter 1:11 7:7
language 15:16 21:25 22:3,4,6 29:1 matters 6:7 43:7
34:16 22:8 25:20 limited 4:7,18 maximizing
52:20
8:1,9,16 Laughter 40:6 39:6 41:14 limits 25:14 mean 9:7 18:2,9
48:6,8 41:2 46:14 43:3 47:19,25 28:20 27:7 35:25
49:4 law 6:25 7:9 8:2 48:2,3,5,11,13 line 18:7 41:4 40:3 43:3 45:9
8:5 9:21 18:23 48:14 49:25 lines 16:7 54:21 45:25 50:3
52:13 55:9 51:24 52:9 litigation 5:23 means 28:16
32:18 lead 11:16 4:19 6:18,19 little 25:23 25:9 32:3,23
lease 3:14,24 6:8 11:16 14:11 44:17 45:7 measure 46:20
12:6,8,9 13:19 21:14,15 22:21 long 15:14 29:9 meeting 54:5
3:6,7,9 15:11,12,13,16 25:24 27:21 look 4:9 9:5 memory 40:25
15:19,21,22,24 29:8 32:23 21:12 23:3,14 merits 54:19
7:22 8:6 16:4,7,9,17,20 39:9 46:8 49:8 26:7,9 34:24 mid-1980s 3:15
10:7 16:24,25 17:4 50:6,7,9 52:3 35:2 37:22 mid-1980's
12:2 17:7,9,11,13 leave 47:1 40:9 42:19,20 18:12
16:5,9 17:16,17 18:1 left 45:16 46:4 52:23 mind 29:14
19:24 19:10,24 21:22 legal 17:11,12 53:6,8 37:10,22 40:8
47:12,14 23:22 24:7,8,9 54:22 55:4,5 looked 42:8 42:15 45:14
48:7,10 24:9,15,15,19 legislation 23:9 43:14,23 mineral 3:14,25
49:9 25:5 26:24 letter 32:2 looking 4:1 5:15 4:19 14:13
50:2,5 27:6,15,20 let's 29:18 35:10 18:22 20:14 20:5,8 21:11
53:9,10 28:2,11,19 liability 3:22 42:17 21:14,15,23,24
54:20 29:2 32:1,6 7:10 10:3,23 lose 42:1 22:3,5,6,8,8,10
54:15 38:7 39:1,15 35:23 36:18 lot 9:1 27:12 25:24 26:4,18
39:22 41:6,18 37:2,6 43:3 41:7,8 27:6,15,20
39:20 44:13 47:20,21 52:12,18 53:4 52:21 41:14 46:8
41:5,21 48:1,1 49:1,18 55:16 47:18,25 48:5
46:24 liable 3:16 4:25 M 48:12 49:25
53:21
53:22 54:15 5:1,4 6:17,25 Macrow 21:2 50:6,9,13,20
50:9 native 20:7 23:1 normal 9:15 ought 33:18 payment 7:15
natural 22:18 30:4 46:22 47:6 Peabody 38:7
23:5,5,17 25:25 47:24 52:3 outrage 47:6 40:11
47:4 48:9 49:6,17 notions 18:23 outright 18:10 Peabody's 54:5
Navajo 1:6 3:5 55:6 overall 32:10,19 percent 12:7,15
7:4,4 10:20 13:21 27:1 44:6,8 53:23 54:1
23:7,18,21 O 2:1 3:1 overstatement period 32:21
30:17 32:4,10 obviously 28:25 owned 35:10,17 pertinent 4:3,7
44:9,18 45:3 46:21 P Petitioner 1:4
9:17,21 need 28:18 44:4 papers 35:16 21:24 22:2,10
28:21 needed 20:24 old 42:19,22 paragraph 22:13,17 23:24
49:15 ones 5:9 28:20 20:14 24:25 25:7
11:23 12:24 opened 54:13 part 17:24 20:17 27:11,18 28:4
33:13 negotiated 45:5 35:23 36:18 29:25 30:4,13
44:17 39:22,22 53:23 operate 55:11 43:10 30:16,21 31:9
neither 6:13 30:22 9:17 33:3 40:7,21,25
nine 47:12 orange 36:16 passage 24:6 47:11
9:21 10:3,8,9 16:18 21:17 12:19 19:22,25 reasonably 24:3
20:25 private 35:21 14:12,20 17:16 31:21 33:12 Reclamation 6:6
26:22 probably 53:13 18:21 19:5 34:15 37:22 19:2
39:5 problem 26:5 25:13 27:2,5 38:13,25 40:3 recognition
51:25 procedural 27:12,16,19 41:5,16,22 17:21
55:17 35:17 38:5 42:15 43:20 recognize 8:1
55:18 8:8,12 9:10 48:1 49:22 49:24 53:12 46:17
24:18 32:9,16 34:11 21:12 24:12,14 32:25 47:22 48:13
30:5 46:19 25:1 26:2,3 quote 4:2,2 reduces 44:23
53:15 programs 17:24 28:1 29:10 quoting 14:2 reference 16:24
prohibition 49:21 50:13,14 R referring 48:3
13:1 19:7 48:19 49:1 49:12 13:9 14:3
5:17 24:2 41:11 pursuant 7:14 reaffirmed 5:25 53:6 54:7 55:8
20:22 protect 26:10 40:10,15 reality 40:8 regulations
31:14,15 29:8 push 38:2 realize 28:7 10:12 13:9,25
protection 24:13 put 8:24 14:19 really 10:7 14:7 16:11,25 17:2
protections 18:17 26:11 28:21 34:24 26:15 36:11
5:17 7:6 22:12 38:18 52:14 53:20 13:12 50:21 45:8
46:3,5 renegotiated 54:3 royalty 3:24 6:3 second-guess
renegotiation 1:19 2:6 19:18 14:4,16 54:1 secretary 4:4
29:23 12:5 response 12:19 rule 24:6 7:19,20 8:4,18
13:14 50:19,21 9:1 53:3 23:1 10:12 11:1,1,3
6:9 10:25 49:20 9:4,7 20:11 S 11:22,25 12:2
13:7 repealed 32:19 29:21 30:10,11 S 1:15 2:1,3,8 12:12,13,21,23
repeated 15:16 46:20 55:7 3:1,7 47:14 13:1,22 14:6,7
15:12,18 repeating 50:18 responsible sale 36:21 16:15 17:6
reply 54:9 11:16 saving 27:25 19:5,24 23:16
19:23 reproduced responsive saying 8:20 24:22,22,25
35:15 54:18 22:12,20 25:22 29:22 34:9,17
24:17,21 require 13:13 restricting 29:9 27:5,16,24 36:9,12 40:9
26:8 19:23 36:12 revenue 49:6,8 28:3 31:4 40:19 44:11
29:15 44:11 revenues 12:12 33:25 34:15,24 45:21 46:8,10
32:2,10 required 4:4 reversed 18:9 35:12 38:22 46:17,22,23
39:23 11:22 review 9:13 45:23 51:12 47:21 51:21,23
41:15 requirement 17:11,12 says 12:14 14:23 53:22 54:3,5
10:17 43:22 right 22:22 27:7 16:2 17:12 54:10,14
requires 34:10 34:19,20 35:1 24:4 25:9 27:1 13:1 14:9
reservation 43:16 44:16 34:19 35:3,16 section 11:11
5:11,18 28:25 32:4 rights 10:18 48:1,8,18,20 15:2,18 17:1
20:15 39:8,14 49:15 41:14 49:19 51:9 19:22 21:16
21:7,9 reserve 19:14 rights-creating Scalia 13:6 16:2 22:20 23:23
30:24 resource 25:25 3:18 34:6 16:8 21:6,21 24:3,6,16,24
49:7 22:10,11,12,14 right-creating 41:1,3 46:10 31:22,23,24
39:10 47:24 ROBERTS 3:3 Scalia's 26:23 41:12 46:16,18
39:18 11:3 14:11,16 39:16,25 44:15 school 48:22,23 50:24 51:12
54:8 17:6 24:17 45:4,20 47:10 scope 25:17 sections 32:20
26:3 27:8,14 54:17 55:23 31:22 50:16 32:20 50:23,23
43:1 47:17 round 38:12 16:14 18:13 37:10 46:2,6
44:7 37:17 37:12 stood 40:4 33:8 43:9
25:19 27:10,11 30:6 48:22 strange 27:24 54:17
30:21 35:10 stated 7:4 40:18 surely 4:7
27:25 51:8 53:2 55:5 statements 41:9 stretch 19:10 suspect 33:24
49:19 55:19 states 1:1,3,12 stronger 37:11 suspicion 37:13
36:23,24 49:3,5,23 50:3 38:18 40:14 11:17 15:14 table 33:23
50:15 44:23 45:6,17 28:12 29:1 take 11:16 20:12
55:15 statute 3:22 4:11 submission 5:7 54:15
51:1 20:15 22:3 suddenly 42:11 talk 8:24 13:11
16:23 10:22 14:15 34:10 36:6,15 20:10 talked 10:2
18:21 22:8 37:11,12,13,18 sufficient 8:21 talking 7:10
45:16 39:14,14 43:24 42:12,20,20,21 suggest 18:9 talks 39:6
48:24 50:13 44:22 51:9,20 suggesting 10:3 tell 34:22
31:15 specifically 11:3 54:7 55:8 41:7 temporal 33:2
44:24 11:4 14:1 statutes 4:12 5:8 suit 9:17 tendency 40:7
19:12 threshold 3:18 true 23:1 55:3 5:1,4,7 6:16,24
55:15
51:16 10:17 18:20 trust 8:25 9:6 7:2 9:3,7,11
thrust 30:9,12 10:3,8,9,15 10:23 12:1724:20,20 28:10
18:13,17 19:14 53:17 53:1,7,10 18:25 51:6
47:10 28:8,12 30:9 45:2 unleash 55:9
30:23 32:1,6 truth 34:22 39:1 unreasonable
38:2,3,7,9,25 42:20 unusual 16:15
16:6,23 41:17 42:17 42:10 55:14 1:16,18
18:25 49:2 53:25 Tucker 3:16,17 urge 47:8 wasn't 17:2
42:19 55:18 7:1,1 9:18 10:9 use 25:14 31:16
37:16
55:3 today 3:4 40:19 34:7 53:4,8 49:14 water 49:14,15
34:18 transferring turn 10:22 usual 7:11 7:19 8:23
51:3 two 4:23 5:11 usually 45:6 12:22,23 14:7
28:23
6:22 8:15 9:25 45:5 21:12 27:8,23 47:23,23 48:9
32:17
10:7 treaties 9:4 36:7 28:3 31:20 utilized 50:12
50:19
14:5 tribal 11:17 33:20 37:25 utilizing 49:16
53:7
15:3,3 12:16 35:19 38:1 43:1 ways 9:1
tribe 4:4 5:15 53:24 V weaker 37:18
18:15 11:17,23 12:4 two-fold 44:20 v 1:5 3:4 52:2 went 14:5 20:4
20:2,16 12:7,24 16:15 type 39:14 value 13:16 33:9 38:15 42:3
22:16 17:19 19:7 types 49:1 51:1 35:6 36:13 51:16
24:1 23:13 24:19 44:12 47:5 we've 14:12
28:24 30:5 U 50:19,21 wholly 21:17
26:6 29:5 47:20,20 51:2 Udall 39:21 various 47:21 won 40:3 42:3
30:1 51:5,7 52:2 40:10,19 46:10 vast 55:10 wonder 37:15
33:1,5 53:23,24 54:2 understand 21:6 venture 14:21 word 31:7,16
35:15 54:9,13 55:1 27:18 40:23 Vermont 55:12 words 38:8
42:17 tribes 7:18 20:9 41:4 42:9 43:9 view 6:19 41:10 42:19,20
20:12 23:15 undertook viewed 33:18 works 12:22
48:4 25:12 27:8,23 17:22 violated 3:20 wouldn't 15:20
50:25 28:3 29:21 undisputed violation 5:2,3,5 16:14
52:8,14 tribe's 3:14,24 38:12 5:16,19 7:2,5 wrong 32:7,8
55:9 5:6,20 12:11 unearthed 41:20 9:19 10:23 38:22
35:11 tried 42:9,15 uniformity 52:3 x 1:2,7
38:21 trivial 28:19 United 1:1,3,12 W
41:13 29:2 3:4,16,22 4:25 waiver 7:11 10:5 Y
23 1:9
28:9,9 25 15:19,20,23
40:17,24 46:6
52:10 26 46:7
5:10 54:13
40 40:24
1:5 3:4 47 2:9
5
5:25 7:5 11:15 5 11:11 14:15,17
13:21 14:22,24 15:18
20:3,4 17:1 19:22
12:7,7,13 21:16 22:20
27:13 23:23 24:3,6
28:9,9 24:16,24 25:9
27:1,20,25
25:3 28:6,12 29:6
32:21 31:22,23 32:24
1:13 3:2 36:16 47:17
55:25 49:12,19 50:12
12:15,20 524 15:8
53:23,25 525 15:8
26:15
14:23 6
2:6 634(a) 33:6
3:25 635 33:6 45:21
6:9 14:14 46:9
23:8 635(a) 33:15,17
39:24 34:1,3,16
12:6 45:11,16
54:14 635(b) 33:15
12:6,6 45:13
53:21 635(c) 34:1
18:13
13:22,25 8
8 31:24 34:10
