IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
EDMUND BOYLE, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-1309
UNITED STATES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 14, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:16 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MARC FERNICH, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
ANTHONY YANG, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MARC FERNICH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ANTHONY YANG, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MARC FERNICH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:16 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument in Case 07-1309, Boyle v. United States.
Mr. Fernich.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARC FERNICH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FERNICH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
This is a case about a defendant's right to
an independent jury determination of each essential
element of a RICO offense, specifically a pattern of
racketeering and a separate enterprise that is more than
just a duplication of the pattern.
To keep the elements apart, ensure their
distinct consideration, and give the enterprise
independent meaning, juries must be instructed, as in
the Seventh Circuit and elsewhere, that an "enterprise"
requires a structure separate from the commission of the
predicate acts forming the pattern.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Fernich --
MR. FERNICH: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- are we talking just
about the instruction to the jury? I know you think
that the instruction given here was incorrect. But is
it just a question of charge error or are you saying
that there was insufficient evidence of enterprise for
this case to go to the jury?
MR. FERNICH: I am not suggesting, Your
Honor, that there was insufficient evidence of -- of
enterprise to go to the jury. My primary point is with
respect to the charge. We do contend --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're saying if a proper
charge had been given, this jury on this evidence still
could have convicted the defendant?
MR. FERNICH: We contend, to be sure, that
the evidence was legally insufficient under Rule 29.
But we are pressing principally the first -- the jury-
argument claim here in this Court. We do contend that
the evidence was legally insufficient.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did you make that -- did
you make that objection in the trial court?
MR. FERNICH: Yes, we did, and we preserved
it in the court of appeals as well. And there was, as
Your Honor knows, no published opinion with respect to
either issue, so both issues are preserved.
Now, Your Honor, under the Second Circuit
rule that functionally conflates the two elements, that
is enterprise and pattern, the jury in this case was not
so instructed as to the need for an enterprise with an
existence separate and apart from the racketeering acts
forming the pattern. For that reason we contend that
the judgment below must be vacated.
JUSTICE ALITO: The -- the error was the
failure to give the instruction that appears on page 95
of the joint appendix? Is that the error that you are
complaining about?
MR. FERNICH: Not merely so, Justice Alito.
That is why the entire relevant excerpts from the jury
charge are included in the joint appendix. We objected
to the entirety of the charge, in addition to requesting
specific language of our own. To be sure, the principal
error of which we complain in this Court is the failure
of that instruction anywhere to require, as this Court
required in the United States v Turkette, and as 18
U.S.C. 1962(c) itself requires, an entity with a
structure separate and apart from the pattern of
racketeering.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what do you mean by
that precisely? Suppose you have a group of people, the
ringleader goes and gets a safecracker, he gets a
wheelman, and so forth, all the people he needs for the
crime; and he says we are going to call this the -- the
Brinks Job Group, okay? We are the Brinks Job Group.
But that's the only thing that he has put the group
together in order to do. But it's still a group. He
calls it a group and he gets all these guys together and
they -- they meet and have lunch together, and do a lot
of stuff together.
Would that meet your -- your condition of a
separate association from the predicate acts?
MR. FERNICH: To be sure, we would contend
that it would be a question in the first instance for a
properly instructed jury, but without more on the
hypothetical that Your Honor has posited, the answer to
that question is no. There is no ongoing decisional
apparatus, no continuing directional mechanism.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except insofar as it is
directed to the Brinks job.
MR. FERNICH: Except the degree of
organization, I should say, inherent in each individual
predicate act.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you -- you imported --
I'm looking at your quotation from Turkette, at page 5
of your brief. It doesn't seem to me conclusive of your
point. In order to answer Justice Scalia, you had to
interpolate, to add various words. You had to say --
you said an ongoing organization with directions or
something to that effect. That is not what Turkette
says. Turkette says "as proven by evidence of an
ongoing organization, formal or informal, that is
continuing." That's all it says.
MR. FERNICH: To be sure, Your Honor, we
don't contend that Turkette is directly controlling of
the issue and we go through a lengthy textual exegesis
in our brief of why we think that implicit in the
factors of ongoing organization and continuing unit is a
structure requirement. But what Turkette did
unequivocally say is that there must be an entity
existing separate and apart from the pattern of
racketeering activity. There was no such instruction
given in this case -- and the word "entity," which
appears in section 1961(4) itself and appears twice in
the Turkette decision, surely connotes an ascertainable
structure with an existence separate and apart from the
pattern of racketeering.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What does "structure"
mean? I think you said it doesn't mean that this has to
be an organization with a president, a treasurer; it
doesn't mean that.
MR. FERNICH: It could mean that in an
appropriate case, Your Honor. It surely would be
probative --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What is -- what is the
minimum to qualify as having a structure?
MR. FERNICH: The minimum is a separate,
ongoing, continuing existence apart from the commission
of the predicate acts themselves, and the members
necessary to commit those predicate acts, because that
by definition, I should say, is the pattern of
racketeering activity; and moreover, it is also inherent
in any criminal conspiracy that extends over time.
To be more specific, the bare minimum
requisites for a structure would be: an ongoing
directional mechanism; a continuing decisional-making
unit -- decisionmaking unit, I should say -- and some
sort of coherent existence between the commission of the
racketeering acts themselves. Those are the main
ingredients.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So all you have to
do, to pick up on Justice Scalia's hypothetical, is just
not the Brinks job, but you have to have one more crime,
and that's it; then everything you've talked about is
satisfied?
MR. FERNICH: No, that is, respectfully, not
what we contend, although in an appropriate case it is
conceivable that a properly instructed jury may find
structure on those facts. The point that we are
conveying here is that this is principally a jury
question, and a jury that is properly instructed will
make findings, presumably, as to what the -- whether the
structure was extant, and those findings would command
substantial deference on appeal, as they do in the
circuits that have applied a structure requirement; and
it would be a relatively easy task for an appellate
court to defer to the jury's findings in such a case.
There is a --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The jury -- the words
that you asked for, what was it? "Ascertainable
structural hierarchy." And suppose the judge gets
questions from the jury: "Your Honor, what do you mean
by ascertainable structural hierarchy?"
MR. FERNICH: I'm -- I'm sorry,
Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Those are the words that
you wanted the judge to include in the charge --
MR. FERNICH: To be sure.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- and it's your
requested charge, as to say to have an enterprise you
need to have -- the group has to have an ascertainable
structural hierarchy. Those are the three words in your
requested charge.
MR. FERNICH: Well, respectfully, Your
Honor, it goes beyond that, because the end of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But those -- but you did
ask for those.
MR. FERNICH: I did, and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And now I'm asking you,
what does that mean? The judge gives your charge, the
jury is puzzled: Your Honor, we don't understand what
you mean by "ascertainable structural hierarchy"; would
you please tell us specifically?
MR. FERNICH: Yes, Your Honor. First of
all, the charge that we are asking for specifically is a
charge that is given in the Seventh and Eighth Circuits
which says a structure separate from the commission of
the predicate acts themselves. If a jury were puzzled,
in that instance the judge could, as spelled out in
pages 31 through 35 of our reply brief, give examples,
any number of examples that have been spelled out by the
lower courts in -- that have adopted a structure
requirement.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And some of those
examples it seems are present here. One you gave was
longevity, well, this has been going on for 10 years;
another was a unique way of operating, and they are
specialists in deposit boxes and they have look-out
people and they have people who actually break into the
bank, and they have a certain amount of skill.
So we have longevity, modus operandi, and a
division of labor. They have some people being their
lookouts and other people doing other things. So I was
looking at your list in the reply brief, and it seems to
me that this organization, this association of
individuals, has some of those characteristics.
MR. FERNICH: Your Honor, first of all, to
get right down to the nitty-gritty of the verdict in the
case, it's important to focus on what the jury actually
found. The enterprise as charged was a 10-year
enterprise. There were three predicate acts found by
the jury ranging in date from late December of 1998
through early January of 1999. So the longevity aspect
is certainly something that we dispute here.
Again, to answer Your Honor, to go back to
the beginning of our argument, to be sure the thrust of
our argument in this Court is directed to the jury
instruction in this case. It may be conceivable, we
don't for a minute concede that the evidence was legally
sufficient under rule 29. That said, had a jury been
properly instructed and made such a finding, i.e., to
find a separately structured enterprise, that would be a
finding that would command significant deference, and
I'd be hard-pressed --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why do you need a
hierarchy? Why do you need a boss? Why can't it be a
democratic mob? I mean, there is no boss and they agree
that all of their decisions will be taken unanimously?
MR. FERNICH: We don't contend before this
Court that it must be hierarchical per se. Certainly --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's what you
requested. Isn't -- isn't that the instruction you
requested?
MR. FERNICH: On the facts of this case,
consistent with the examples that are spelled out
comprehensively in both the opening brief and the reply
brief, that is the one that we focused on. But to be
sure -- to be sure, I also objected to the charge as
given in its entirety. In this Court we don't press the
contention that a hierarchical structure -- hierarchical
structure is an irreducible minimum. We do --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you couldn't, could
you, because the -- an organization can consist of an
individual. And it seems to me that all of the
requirements that you have been specifying would in an
individual case be met simply by showing that there was
-- there was an individual in business who had a brain.
MR. FERNICH: An individual, Your Honor, is
-- is a legal entity under the first clause of 1961(4).
It means a sole proprietorship in this context. And an
individual, a legal entity, as set forth in the first
clause of 1961(4), by definition --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, but, if I set up a
newsstand, it's a sole proprietorship and that's all I
have to do. And if I have a functioning brain, I have a
decisionmaking mechanism. I remember from day-to-day
what I did, so I have continuity. And -- and it seems
to me that all of these requirements are -- are
virtually satisfied as a matter of course by an
individual who engages in any kind of business that
might have interstate-commerce implications.
MR. FERNICH: And that is not an absurd
result. It is a -- and it is a result that squares with
the primary purpose of the statute as enacted, which was
to prevent the subversion and infiltration of legitimate
business by criminal elements.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Oh, absolutely. But it
seems to me that it -- it puts you in sort of a -- a
difficult position to -- to be calling for or -- or
requiring jury instructions that call for, as necessary
conditions, findings of structure, continuity, decision-
making, capacity and so on, when in fact on -- on at
least one variety of enterprise, these conditions are --
are met virtually automatically simply by having
somebody doing business in any way.
MR. FERNICH: To be sure, Your Honor, we are
only calling -- and the problem only arises in the
context of an association-in-fact enterprise. The great
weight of authority and the plain language of 1961(4)
does not define an individual as an association-in-fact
enterprise. And it does not square with the plain
language of the statute to call an individual an
association-in-fact enterprise. And, moreover, doing so
would create a whole set of other problems,
distinctly --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Oh, I agree, but an
individual can be an -- an enterprise.
MR. FERNICH: A legal enterprise.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And -- and an association,
in fact, can be an enterprise. And if we accept those
two propositions, then I think you've got a tough row to
hoe in saying that any enterprise which is not an
individual has got to have all the formal
characteristics that you talk about, given the fact that
those characteristics are automatically satisfied by an
individual.
MR. FERNICH: We don't -- we don't press
that contention, Your Honor. We specifically press it
for the phrase "any union or group of individuals
associated in fact, although not a legal entity." The
"individual" portion appears in the first clause of the
statute. The distinctness problem simply does not arise
in the context of a legal-entity enterprise.
And it's important to note, as this Court
said in Salinas -- recognized in Salinas ---virtually
every criminal prosecution that is brought under 1962(c)
is brought against an illicit association-in-fact
enterprise. The -- the scenario of an individual being
an association-in-fact enterprise, I don't think it's a
valid association-in-fact enterprise as a matter of law.
There is a line of cases from the Seventh Circuit that
says it's not.
And this structural problem, having a
structure that is distinct from the pattern of
racketeering activities so that the two elements, I
should say, are kept separate and apart, only arises in
the context of an association-in-fact enterprise, which
is, of course, a very, very wide swath.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would it include, let's
say, a street gang? How about -- this may be before
your time, but "The Lavender Hill Mob"?
MR. FERNICH: I'm sorry, Your Honor?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Alec Guiness movie,
"The Lavender Hill Mob."
MR. FERNICH: Oh, well, certainly we don't
have any quarrel with the proposition of street gangs,
and many of them are cited in our briefs. The great
preponderance of typical RICO prosecutions are
hierarchical, drug-type street gangs which have
regimented structures. And again, to answer
Justice Scalia's question, we don't contend that that is
a strict necessity, but certainly they are not going to
have a problem establishing a structured enterprise with
a regimented drug gang.
JUSTICE ALITO: If hierarchy is not
required, then I'm not clear what more -- what you think
needs to be shown beyond the fact that there was an
association in fact and whatever continuity needs to be
shown in order to establish the pattern. What -- what
needs to be shown beyond that?
MR. FERNICH: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE ALITO: What needs to be charged to
the jury that they must find beyond that?
MR. FERNICH: We contend that they must be
charged that there has to be a structure separate from
the commission of the predicate acts themselves. The
Seventh and Eighth Circuits use pattern jury
instructions that give that precise charge. And there
has been, to my knowledge, no reported difficulties --
JUSTICE ALITO: But What does that mean?
MR. FERNICH: It means -- and -- and I would
take the test most prominently from Your Honor's own
home circuit as spelled out in the Riccobene case: A --
an ongoing decisional-making apparatus to guide the
affairs of the enterprise, a directional mechanism.
The Third Circuit in Riccobene said an
overseeing, clearinghouse and coordination function, and
-- and a cohesive existence between predicate acts.
JUSTICE ALITO: I -- I just --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Basically, you described
this -- this gang. One -- one person is a guard. The
other person brings the hook to pull the -- the box off.
Another person scouts it out. Another person's got the
scanner. It seems to me to fit precisely what you have
just described.
MR. FERNICH: The gang has no structure
aside from that which is a necessary incident to the
commission of each racketeering act. We don't contend
there has to be a formal organization, but there is no
evidence of any continuing, ongoing organization other
than that when they get together to commit the predicate
crimes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Isn't it pretty clear that
if the -- the person who is supposed to be the lookout
doesn't perform his job, he is not going to be included
in that next heist?
MR. FERNICH: There is no evidence of that
in the record to my knowledge, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't there a record that
this is a more or less steady group that hangs out
together, except when one of them gets caught and put in
jail, and then they replace him with someone? But this
is -- this was explained as a group that meets regularly
in the Brooklyn Social Club?
MR. FERNICH: Your Honor, the testimony
about the Brooklyn Social Club is -- is a little bit
overdrawn, I would say. And I would direct the Court to
pages 58 and 74 through 75 of the joint appendix, and
this is the testimony of the witness Gerard Bellafiore,
whose testimony, by the way, is the only testimony we
know for a fact that the jury credited. Quote: "Just a
club to hang out in, not for any type of anything."
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But one of the members
owned the club, right?
MR. FERNICH: Yes. That -- that's true.
But that -- there is no evidence in the record that they
would do anything other than, for example -- and this is
not in the record -- for example, shoot pool at the
club. And -- and Bellafiore himself was careful to
qualify it in that way so that he wasn't gilding the
lily.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose you have a gang that
gets together every Friday afternoon and by democratic
means they decide what crime they are going to commit
that weekend. And they are multi-talented so they --
they look at the whole list of RICO predicates, and they
choose a different one each -- you know, each weekend to
commit. And they do that over some period of time, and
in doing that they perform different roles at different
times. Is -- is that an enterprise?
MR. FERNICH: It sounds to me like a jury
could -- if they are having regular Friday meetings and
they are using sophisticated means to canvas the RICO
statute with a degree of complexity and sophistication
to figure out what they are going to do or maybe even
try to evade the statute, it probably --
JUSTICE ALITO: We will take that part out
of it. They don't look at the statute. They just --
whatever crime comes to somebody's mind. They -- they
want to commit a crime every weekend to -- to make some
money. But it is a different thing, done by different
means, different roles.
MR. FERNICH: If the jury --
JUSTICE ALITO: Does that have an
ascertainable structure?
MR. FERNICH: If the jury were properly
instructed that there had to be a structure separate and
apart from just that which is inherent in the commission
of each act, a properly instructed jury probably could
well find the requirements satisfied on -- on the
hypothetical that Your Honor has posited.
The cases say -- the cases out of the
Seventh Circuit say it is not a high hurdle. They say
it's a low hurdle, and there has to be some structure,
but not much -- not much to distinguish between --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what structure would
there be there? What characteristics of that group
would satisfy the structural requirement?
MR. FERNICH: The ongoing existence, the
regular meetings, and the degree of sophistication
employed. And it implies that they are not just sort of
getting together on an impromptu basis as opportunities
arise, but they are sitting around on a regular basis
for a -- a continuing period of time and planning things
out. What are we going to do this weekend? What are we
going to do next weekend?
Let's twist the hypothetical a little bit.
Maybe they project our three or four weeks ahead of
time. That's what RICO is -- is getting after, some
kind of sophistication, some kind of coordination. This
is the crux of the statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about during the
period that this man -- what was his name, Mangia --
MR. FERNICH: Mangiavillano, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. When he was running
the show, it seems that he was a leader, and that the --
and that the group wasn't quite as democratic before he
got sent to prison.
MR. FERNICH: Your Honor, the testimony in
the record is that -- again, what was found by the jury
here. The testimony is that Mangiavillano and Boyle and
Bellafiore never committed any crimes together. It is
-- it is very extensively briefed in -- in the lower
court. The Second Circuit never addressed it. There is
a long multiple-conspiracies argument. We are not going
to get into that in this Court.
The fact is that Mangiavillano had nothing
to do, nothing to do with the bank burglaries found in
this case. There were three burglaries found as RICO --
I shouldn't say "burglaries" --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That wasn't what I meant.
MR. FERNICH: Okay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I meant, would the
organization, as it was described to exist at the time
Mangiavillano was there, would that have satisfied the
definition of "structure" because it had a leader?
MR. FERNICH: It may have at that point, but
there was no evidence -- and -- and because it's outside
of the time frame of what the jury has found, there is a
lot more diversity in the criminality that was alleged
during that period.
A properly instructed jury may have found
that there was an enterprise existing at that time,
Although I'm not even sure a jury could so find under
Turkette because the core of the membership changed very
dramatically over a period of time. But the leadership
would be one -- to be sure, leadership is something that
a jury could take into account and could permissibly
find if they were properly instructed. On the facts of
this case, I cannot answer that question definitively.
JUSTICE BREYER: Could you try something out
in your mind, and maybe you can't react to it. I'm
trying to figure out how the structure requirement, what
to say, and a thought was occurring to me which I am not
wedded to, I would like some reactions to it: Is to say
that there is a structure means that among this
association of people there must be rules,
understandings, or behavior that tend to keep the
association together over time, other than those which
would be essential to allow them to commit the
particular crimes at issue.
MR. FERNICH: Certainly the defense would
take a ruling like that, but what --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I know, but I'm
trying to work out in my mind, is that a sensible thing
to say? The trouble with the word "structure" is
everything in the universe has a structure, and so it's
awfully vague? I'm trying to make it a little bit more
specific.
MR. FERNICH: A structure -- the structure I
don't think entails necessarily rules, regulations, et
cetera. I don't think the word "structure" --
JUSTICE BREYER: That isn't what I said. I
said: Rules, understandings, forms of behavior that
tend to keep the association together over time, other
than those rules, understandings and associations and
behaviors that would be necessary -- "necessary" meant
strongly -- to commit the particular crimes at issue.
MR. FERNICH: Is Your Honor's question is
that a sensible definition of "structure"?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. FERNICH: Yes, it is a sensible
definition of "structure."
And if there are no further questions, I
would like to reserve the rest of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Fernich.
Mr. Yang.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY YANG
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. YANG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
An association-in-fact enterprise need not
have an ascertainable structure distinct from the
predicate act of racketeering committed by one of its
associates, whatever that means. RICO's statutory text,
its surrounding context, and this Court's construction
of the statute show that RICO's definition of
"enterprise" is broad and contains no such limitation.
Petitioner's primary argument, that the term
"enterprise" is rendered superfluous and merges with the
charged pattern of racketeering acts, is wrong for at
least three reasons: First, it's wrong as a formal
matter. The enterprise is a group of individuals. The
pattern is a series of acts. Second, it fails to
account for the fact that the relevant pattern of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait, wait, wait, wait,
wait. I assume that he was responding to the argument
that you can establish the enterprise from the mere
existence of the pattern of the acts, from the separate
acts. And if indeed it takes nothing more than the acts
to constitute the enterprise, it seems to me he has a
point.
MR. YANG: That goes to my second reason.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, so we'll forget about
your first one.
MR. YANG: Well, let me go to -- which I
think it addresses the second reason. It's distinct as
a formal matter, which is that have you to have find a
group of individuals versus a series of facts. You can
infer the group from their actions, just as can you
infer, you know, a relationship between individuals by
the way they act together. But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So --
MR. YANG: My first point is a formal one.
The second point goes straight to the statute: That the
relevant pattern of racketeering acts that is at issue
in RICO -- this is 1962(c) -- is a pattern of acts
committed by an individual defendant, not a group. In
fact, in H.J. this Court explained that the premise that
the pattern has to be performed by a group or an
association -- this is at page 244 of the Court's
opinion there -- was wrong and that the pattern can be
fully the work of an individual acting alone.
It's also wrong because an enterprise
remains wholly distinct and pertinent in numerous RICO
contexts under the government's interpretation.
JUSTICE BREYER: When you say "individual,"
the first part of the definition of "enterprise" speaks
about any individual partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
MR. YANG: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: So then, I've read
somewhere that people feel that where that individual is
involved, the individual is acting as an -- a legal
entity such as a sole proprietorship. Is that right?
MR. YANG: An individual can be an
enterprise as a sole proprietorship, if that's the
question.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm talking about a legal
entity. And in the second clause, what we are talking
about here, specifically, it is "a corporation, a union,
or a group of individuals associated in fact although
not a legal entity."
MR. YANG: That's correct. I think there
may be some miscommunication on my part. I would direct
the Court to page 5a of the appendix which reproduces
section 1962(c). It states: "It shall be unlawful for
any person" -- it doesn't say "group," "enterprise" or
an "association" -- "that is employed or associated with
an enterprise" --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What appendix? Not the
joint appendix?
MR. YANG: Excuse me. The appendix to our
brief. I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.
MR. YANG: The gray brief. So what's
relevant for purposes of showing an element of a 1962(c)
violation is that the defendant alone, perhaps with
others, but the element is the defendant has to commit a
pattern of racketeering. There are other elements. For
instance, the defendant has to do so in a manner that
participates in the conduct of the affairs of the
enterprise. But, of course, that embraces a wholly
distinct concept, that is the enterprise.
Now, in many cases, as you have here, the
pattern of racketeering activity of this defendant is
proved by evidence that that defendant was also working
in concert with others. And so in that case, the
pattern element, which, again, is the individual's
pattern of acts, is proved by the same type of evidence
that would prove the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So then you'd have
an easy time before the jury. And same thing with
respect to the individual. All that's saying is that
when you are dealing with one person, it's pretty easy
to prove that he, you know, directs himself or, you
know, has an ongoing plan, but that doesn't mean that
it's not a separate element that the jury should have to
find.
MR. YANG: We don't say that it's not a
separate element, and we also don't say that a pattern
necessarily would --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you say that
it's not distinct from the underlying offenses.
MR. YANG: No, I don't believe so. I think
what we have said is that the evidence regarding the
pattern of activity allows the jury to infer the
existence of an enterprise because an enterprise --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But they don't have
to be separately instructed that they have to find that,
do they?
MR. YANG: No, they do. And in fact the
jury can --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the
instruction that the Seventh Circuit and the Eighth
Circuit give that you don't think is necessary?
MR. YANG: The instruction is pertaining to
an ascertainable structure distinct from the pattern of
racketeering. Here you still have to show an
enterprise, and the jury may not infer an enterprise
from the pattern, but certainly it's open to the jury.
When that pattern -- again, a pattern is an individual's
conduct -- but when that pattern is shown through
evidence that the individual is acting with others over
a long period of time -- to either establish that it's a
pattern of racketeering activity, if that same evidence
not only shows that the individual committed a pattern
of racketeering activity, but it was done in concert
with others and that the -- that evidence shows that a
group of individuals had associated in fact for the
common purpose of engaging in criminal conduct.
JUSTICE ALITO: Would you agree there could
be a situation in which an individual engages in a
pattern of racketeering activity together with other
people and yet is not participating in the affairs of an
enterprise through the pattern of racketeering activity?
MR. YANG: Well, I think that's the case
that we gave -- an example that we gave in our brief,
which is saying an individual commits a very long string
of bank burglaries and -- actually, make it robberies.
Robbery is a predicate act; burglary is not. Bank
burglaries with individuals, but each time he does it,
it's with a different group of individuals. There you
-- the individual would be established -- you could
establish a pattern from, say, the relatedness of the
crimes to an M.O. or a -- and in the long continuous
string of crimes, more than a few months, perhaps years.
But it would not establish an enterprise.
JUSTICE ALITO: And what is -- why would it
not? What --
MR. YANG: Because there would be -- you
would --
JUSTICE ALITO: What's lacking there?
MR. YANG: What would show is that the
individual is not working in concert with others to
achieve an end. There's no parallel identity between
any two of the crimes except for the individual acting
alone.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought an
individual -- I thought an individual could be the
enterprise?
MR. YANG: One -- he could be --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: An independent
contractor rather than an employee.
MR. YANG: He could be an enterprise but not
one -- when an individual acts an alone as an
enterprise, the individual is not liability for
racketeering acts under 1962(c) under this Court's
decision in Cedric Kushner, because there's a
requirement in 1962(c) that the individual has to be
employed by or associated with the enterprise. And this
Court has explained that you have to have some
distinctiveness between the enterprise itself and the
individual.
So with respect to the individual, there
would be no -- there might be an enterprise. It is
conceivable that he could be deemed an enterprise, but
not one that has any relevance for RICO purposes under
1962(c).
JUSTICE ALITO: What if he has a list of 25
people who may, on various occasions, want to
participate with him in bank robberies? So whenever he
gets the urge to commit a bank robbery, he gets out his
rolodex and he picks one or more of them and calls them
up and they commit the bank robbery?
MR. YANG: I guess it's unlikely that the
government, if that were the only fact, could show an
enterprise. If there was some additional evidence that
the individuals had gotten together and said, yeah, you
know what, call me, let's work together, when I'm
available call me, but it just happens he never called
me twice.
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the element, then,
that is missing?
MR. YANG: Well, what's required under this
Court's decision in Turkette, which we think flows
directly from the language, any group of individuals
associated in fact, is that the group of persons must be
associated together for a common purpose of engaging in
a course of conduct. And that could be shown, as
Turkette explained, by evidence of some kind of ongoing
organization, formal or informal, that -- whose
associates function as an ongoing unit.
And in order to prove through one's actions
with others that there is an entity -- some agreement
and continuing unit behind it, you are going to have to
show some identity in the group. If there is no
identity except for one person, it would be very
difficult to show an enterprise.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why -- I guess that's where
I'm losing the argument. Why is it difficult?
MR. YANG: It would be difficult to prove an
association in fact. I'm sorry. It would be difficult
to prove an association in fact of more than one person
as the enterprise in that context, because it would be
difficult to show that that person had joined with
others for the common purpose of engaging in a course of
common conduct. It would just be a series of distinct
crimes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then why don't you dispense
with the association-in-fact category and simply go with
the individual?
MR. YANG: That was my answer to the Chief
Justice's question, because under 1962(c), there has to
be distinctiveness in that context.
JUSTICE BREYER: Two people -- two people
walk along the street and know each other, suppose
that's the example, and one of them says I have a great
idea. Let's go in and take some money out of the post
office. The other says, what happens if a policeman
comes? The first one says, we'll bribe him. Okay.
Then they do it. That's it. Period.
Now, of course that's illegal. But is RICO
supposed to catch that?
MR. YANG: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is it that keeps them
out of it?
MR. YANG: Well, RICO requires, among other
things, a pattern of racketeering.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, here we have two --
two -- two related crimes.
MR. YANG: Well, they can be related, but
under this Court's decision in H.J. you also have to
show continuing criminal conduct.
JUSTICE BREYER: There was between the two.
MR. YANG: Well, no. That has a particular
meaning under H.J., which is that it has to extend over
an extended period of time.
JUSTICE BREYER: That is the bribery. What
happens if three months from now the postal inspector
comes to catch us, we will bribe him.
MR. YANG: Well, again, I'm not sure that
that would meet the continuing aspect, either because
it's a threat of continuing activity or because it would
satisfy the closing continuity.
JUSTICE BREYER: You are quite right, I
agree with you that these are different efforts to try
to catch the same problem. And the problem is that I
don't think anyone sees that the simple conspiracy in
carrying out of two criminal offenses by several people
together without more -- without something more should
violate RICO. I think your answer to that would be you
agree with that, but tell me if you don't.
And then if you do agree with it, the very
difficult problem is to figure out how to get the people
to clearly show a pattern or not.
MR. YANG: I think I agree with that
proposition. But what needs to be shown is that there
needs to be an enterprise. Sometimes the enterprise in
cases are lawful enterprises; sometimes in cases it
involves an unlawful organization or unlawful
association in fact, like we have here. And that is
shown -- the statutory requirement, as explained in
Turkette, is simply that this group of people associate
together for a common purpose of engaging in a course of
conduct.
Now, when you have a long -- a series, like
we have here of racketeer -- of crimes. These sets of
crimes went on for almost a decade, involved dozens and
dozens of bank heists.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In fact, your friend
said that the period the jury found was just a couple of
months.
MR. YANG: Yes, that concerns the predicate
acts of racketeering. This is -- this raises another
important issue, which is, the group largely was
committing bank burglaries. Those are not predicate
acts. The predicate acts here under RICO involve the
interstate transportation of stolen funds. There were
three of those that were charged as the predicate act,
and the jury found those to constitute a pattern.
But what this group of individuals were
doing, is they were associating in fact for a very long
period of time, committing dozens of bank -- bank
burglaries, and did so sometimes with the interstate
transportation -- that's what brought --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and were they shown
to the jury, all of those bank burglaries?
MR. YANG: Oh, there were many things shown
to the jury.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it is not at issue in
this case whether -- whether the entity can be --
MR. YANG: I have to say --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- derived simply from the
predicate acts?
MR. YANG: I have to say I'm a little
perplexed at this stage in the litigation based -- how
we got here based on the objection that was made to the
district court. The objection that was made, which was
a J.A. 95, was that there was an ascertainable
structural hierarchy which seems to be abandoned at this
point, distinct from the charged predicated acts of
racketeering, that was repeated at 103, 108, and 109.
And then there was also an objection that the entity has
to have a particular or formed structure, and that has
been abandoned and also inconsistent with Turkette,
which recognized that this could be an informal
association.
And, in fact, there was not an objection to
the entire charge. Counsel at page J.A. 97, after --
when the court explained that it was going to address
his proposed charge at J.A. 95 said, you know, I have
some specific objections to the charges written, and
then went through them, and raising those two objections
as we've just discussed here.
So, we've kind of evolved in terms of what
this case is all about. And even if the Petitioner were
right, I don't think he could prevail, even under the
charge he wants in this case.
But let me turn to a few anomalies with
respect to Petitioner's interpretation of a structure.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Before you do that, Mr.
Yang, could you give us a sense, if you know it, about
the practical results of the different formulas that --
there are at least three formulas, I take it that the
different circuits have approved. In the result of the
RICO prosecution, does it really make a difference which
one of these is charged or do they could out the same
way, anyway?
MR. YANG: It will make a difference in some
cases. There is a case called Bagaric that this Court
cited in its National Organization for Women Against
Scheidler. In there, there was a -- the -- involved a
group of Croation nationalists, loosely knit, who agreed
to promote their anti-Yugoslavian through a series of
acts they committed over a series of years, extortion,
murder, bombings. There was no structure, it would be
very difficult to fit into the ascertainable structure
distinct from the predicate act of racketeering that
Petitioner espouses.
There are other cases involving loosely knit
gangs such as neighborhood thugs. The Nascimento case
involved a neighborhood group of thugs that protected
each other, and that was their common -- common bonding
element through killing rivals or intimidating
witnesses. There's no hierarchy there. There were no
colors, no initiation rights. But this went on for over
a long period of time.
But beyond the classic cases that might fall
outside RICO, if the Court were to adopt an
ascertainable structure requirement, I think as
Petitioner's laundry list of -- of examples -- unless
my -- his reply brief illustrates, that is going to
involve a long course of case-by-case adjudication.
JUSTICE BREYER: What did you think -- what
did you think of the -- probably not much of it, but
what did you think of my effort there? And I am trying
to point out, as you see, I am open to anything that
will deal with what I think of as a functional problem
and the functional problem is exhibited by that Posner
example I gave you or by two investment companies that
decide, what we will do is we will issue a letter that
is going to be shown to two different people; that is
their only association; or maybe 100 people, but they
know who they are, and they are going to be shown this
letter over a period of five or 10 years, and someone
later comes back and says there is a false statement in
the letter. Well, they shouldn't issue a false
statement, but is that RICO?
I mean, so -- so the object -- the object is
to find a way of not overextending RICO where there is
nothing there but a conspiracy to commit two crimes.
Pattern is one help. The pattern is pretty vague, so
all the courts but one have come along, I take it, with
this other help, which is playing on the word structure.
Now you have heard what I said as a weak
effort to try to do something. What is your best effort
to do something to deal with the problem? Or what's
wrong with my effort? Whatever you want to say.
MR. YANG: Let me first address what is your
underlying concern, that there is a problem. Turkette
addressed that; Turkette addressed that it doesn't
matter that the evidence used to establish these
separate elements may in case of --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's different.
That's -- of course the same evidence can establish two
separate elements.
MR. YANG: The --
JUSTICE BREYER: The problem will be
conflating the elements so that every single case that
you have the first set, you also have the second set.
MR. YANG: That problem does not exist as
well, because the relevant pattern of racketeering
activity that is the element of the crime is something
committed by individuals.
For instance, let's take a group of
individuals who commit a long string, of, for instance,
burglaries, they do so over a series of years. Bank
burglary is not a predicate act of racketeering; it's a
wholly criminal organization; all they do is commit bank
burglaries. One individual is given the money at the
end of the -- of each burglary. What we would have
there is a RICO violation after the individual, because
the individual, the element is that the individual has
transported the money in interstate transportation -- or
across State lines, and that is a RICO predicate; but
the other things that the group was doing, those are not
RICO predicates.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no.
MR. YANG: So the -- so the element, it
doesn't change, if the individual then does it with some
other people -- let's say he brings his buddy along, two
of them do it, that just shows the evidence necessary to
show that the individual -- the evidence showed that the
individual committed a pattern of racketeering, also
happens to show he did it with a group, but it's the
evidence, not the element. The element of the crime in
section 1962(c) always turns on the defendant.
JUSTICE BREYER: Always, in a case where you
sue the investment company because of their one letter
used four times, it's the act of the individual. In the
case that Posner used, it's always the act of the
individual. There's always a criminal act of an
individual.
MR. YANG: But if you have --
JUSTICE BREYER: And he has to be
associated, however, with an enterprise for it to fall
within RICO, and there also has to be a pattern.
MR. YANG: If we take --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's going back --
MR. YANG: -- my hypothetical with the
individual transporting the money alone across State
lines, you have a pattern. If you just looked at that,
individual taking money across State lines, by himself,
that doesn't establish enterprise. What would -- so the
pattern exists independently.
What would show the enterprise is the fact
that the evidence might also show that he is doing it
with other people. That would show that he -- the
element that is, that he is committing a pattern of
racketeering activity and he is doing it in concert with
others, but that goes to the separate element of
enterprise. That is --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's right, and our
problem is he is doing it with one other person whom he
met once, and they agreed to do it, and it's a common
law conspiracy; and now suddenly he has done it twice
with another person who helped him and they said they
would do it, and now we have RICO; and my belief is --
which you may not agree with -- that that common
garden-variety conspiracy to say, rob a bank and then
transport the money a few months later, that that's all
that's at issue. That shouldn't be within RICO.
MR. YANG: Let me --
JUSTICE BREYER: You might come back and
tell me it should be.
MR. YANG: Let me try to approach that in
two separate ways. One, Turkette in footnote 5 was very
clear. The Court explained even if the pattern of
racketeering activity and the enterprise are established
the same way, it doesn't matter, if enterprise has
function -- some function, there is no such thing as, in
other words, partial superfluidities of an element, or
partial superfluidity of a word.
Secondly, the concern about conspiracy
exists in any conspiracy. Conspiracy is an inchoate
act. You are liable for conspiracy as soon as you made
the agreement, and under 371 commit an overt act or
under RICO conspiracy agree to all the necessary
elements of a substantive RICO offense.
Congress has -- and not only that, you can
be charged for conspiracy and charged for completing the
conspiracy as separate crimes. That's the normal rule.
That's the normal rule here. You can be charged for a
conspiracy to commit RICO offenses, and RICO offenses,
the pattern element I don't think can be overestimated
here.
The pattern element is where RICO has --
plus the list of predicate acts of racketeering -- is
really where RICO gets most of its limiting structure,
and I think the Court recognized that in H.J.
It's the pattern which requires related
criminal acts that can be related in a number of ways,
and the -- the Court gave kind of a list of that in
H.J., which I think I won't go through now, but as well
as continuity, and that could be long-term criminal
activity, not just a single or two, but long-term
criminal activity, or the threat of criminal activity.
Interestingly enough --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I am -- I am really
confused now. I don't -- I am not sure I know what your
answer to the question presented is, which is quite
simply must an association-in-fact enterprise under RICO
have some ascertainable structure beyond that inherent
in the commission of predicate crimes by its members and
associates?
And you -- your answer is no?
MR. YANG: No. I mean, I guess it depends
on what you mean -- ascertainable structure --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. YANG: It's very -- I have to say it's
difficult for me to understand what is being proposed by
the other side, particularly once you have lost
hierarchy. Hierarchy is something which is an
understandable term.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. YANG: But if you are talking about
structure, structure could mean relationship between
individuals that enable them to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right, right.
MR. YANG: -- commit their crimes. If that's
the case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. YANG: -- I don't see why a jury cannot
infer from the fact that over a long period of time the
alleged members of this group have operated as a unit
and have committed acts of racketeering, from that
coordinating conduct that you were not able to infer
that they had a means of acting as a group.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but you would have to
tell the jury -- you would have to tell the jury you
would have to find it. Of course the jury can find it,
but the issue is must the jury be told that it has to
find it? I think he's conceding --
MR. YANG: Must the jury --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Be told it's not enough,
ladies and gentlemen of the jury, for you to find that
these predicate acts occurred; you must find -- and you
can find it just from the predicate acts, if you think
the evidence will justify that -- you must find an
organization separate from the mere commission of the
predicate acts.
MR. YANG: What does that mean?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know.
(Laughter.)
MR. YANG: Because Turkette makes very clear
that an association-in-fact enterprise can exist for
wholly criminal acts. So if for instance, take a few
hypotheticals. Let's say a group forms for the basis of
committing just only predicate acts of racketeering,
they do that. Nothing else, just predicate acts, over a
10-year period.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. YANG: All right? One formulation of
petitioners is you have to look at the charged pattern
of racketeering acts, presumably because then the jury
has to find the charged pattern and then that has to be
distinct from the enterprise. If that is the case --
let's say there is 100 predicate acts of racketeering.
All that does is say that the government has to show 99
and leave the last one uncharged. That makes no sense.
To the extent that Petitioners say that
okay, there has got to be some -- something other than
racketeering activity, take for instance, the group that
does wholly legal, but does criminal non-racketeering
acts as well as racketeering acts; that's in fact this
case. Bank robberies and -- excuse me, bank burglaries,
which is not a predicate act, and interstate
transportation of funds. It would be wholly anomalous
to exclude a group that only did bank robberies, which
are predicate acts, but include a group that was only
partially racketeering but wholly criminal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not at all; not at
all. That would make a lot of sense, because RICO is
not intended just to bring in the crimes. They are look
for something else. They are looking for an
organization that is involved in these types of things.
MR. YANG: But there is nothing -- there's
-- in order to find an organization, you are not going
to see any more from criminal acts that are not
racketeering versus criminal acts that are. Both of
them show --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but you -- you
would instruct the jury that if these three thefts that
are covered by RICO occurred over a period of a year,
and they involved lookouts and scanners and so forth,
you may infer from these acts an enterprise as defined
by the statute?
MR. YANG: They might.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You would allow that
instruction?
MR. YANG: You -- yes, but there would have
to be more. You have to explain what would be necessary
to show an enterprise. And in fact the -- the
appendix to the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Where -- where in your
briefs or in the materials do we find the definition of
what the enterprise is, other than in the statute, other
than the terms of the statute itself?
MR. YANG: I believe page 17.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, in other -- what
do I refer to in order to supplement the instruction
that I just noted -- that I just suggested?
MR. YANG: Page 17 of our brief reiterates
the standard, I believe it's Turkette, it comes from
Turkette and in the appendix to petition -- or excuse
me, to the joint appendix, the charge is at pages 111
through 113. That's the charge.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's at the bottom of
111 where it said you can look to see what it does and
make the inference rather than have -- I forget -- an
abstract analysis?
MR. YANG: But it goes on to say that you
must -- the government must prove that there is an
ongoing organization with some similar framework, formal
and informal, for carrying out its objectives and
various members and associations of the association
function as a continuing unit to achieve a common
objective.
The government must prove that in every
case. In this case, this is not in the J.A., but it is
in the court of appeals appendix at page 8770, the
district court specifically charged the jury that they
must find five separate elements of a RICO offense,
including the existence of an enterprise as one; two,
that the enterprise engaged in or its activity affected
interstate or foreign commerce; three, that the
defendant was associated in it.
Eventually you get down to five, that the
defendant knowingly participated in the conduct of the
affairs of the enterprise through a pattern of
racketeering.
So the district court explained you have to
define an enterprise. And to find an enterprise, what's
a necessary element, it said you may infer an enterprise
from what the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You say enterprise.
I mean, the objection is that the enterprise is no
different than the various predicate acts.
MR. YANG: It is different in the sense that
you can have a series of predicate acts without an
enterprise, you can have an enterprise without a series
of predicate acts. Now what, the objection seems to be
ultimately that the evidence needs to show the predicate
acts of racketeering may also prove that the enterprise
exists, because when you show predicate acts of a
defendant, which is the only element, he doesn't have to
work in concert with others to commit the predicate acts
of racketeering, but when you show the predicate acts
with evidence that individual is acting with others, you
can also show that they have -- there is an association
in fact of individuals who joined together to pursue a
common course of conduct. Thank you, Your Honors.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you Mr. Yang.
Mr. Fernich, you have four minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MARC FERNICH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FERNICH: Thank you, Your Honor.
Very briefly, nobody disputes the
proposition that a properly instructed jury would be
able to find that racketeering acts committed by an
individual is a distinct element from the
association-in-fact enterprise. The government is
absolutely right and we agree on that score. The
problem is the lower courts have misread Turkette. They
are not focusing on the pattern of activity committed by
the individual; they have -- and the instruction as
Justice Kennedy himself quoted in this case encapsulate
it -- encapsulates the problem.
Comments -- and this is at the bottom of
J.A. 1111. Common sense suggests that the existence of
an association in fact is oftentimes more readily proven
by what it does -- it does, not rather than what an
individual member does -- rather than by abstract
analysis of its structure.
So it only raises a further vagueness
problem. We agree that patterns of racketeering
activity are properly committed by individuals. If you
are going to define the enterprise solely or principally
by virtue of the pattern, whose pattern would you define
it by? It doesn't even make any sense. And in
Turkette, it -- with respect to what occurred in
Turkette -- and this is at page 5 of my brief, the
latter -- and this is a quote from Turkette, and it is
referring to a pattern: "The latter is proved by
evidence of the requisite number of acts of racketeering
committed by the participants in the enterprise."
We agree in the abstract that a properly
instructed jury, that the pattern and the enterprise are
totally different things. The problem is it's a giant
circular argued by the government. Juries are not being
properly instructed in that regard, and that only
compounds the vagueness of the statute.
The second point I would like to make: the
government presses its principal definition of an
enterprise in its brief, and what I hear here from the
government is its common purpose. Common purpose. And
I would like to direct the Court to the Salinas opinion
which discussed RICO conspiracy. It's at 522 U.S. --
well, I will give you the -- let's try 118 S. Court 477.
It looks like common purpose is the hallmark
of a conspiracy. This is in the discussion of a
conspiracy: "We rejected argument X because it would
erode the common law principle that so long as they
share a common purpose, conspirators are liable for the
acts of their co-conspirators, which is the Pinkerton
doctrine which collapses 1962(c) into a general
conspiracy statute, if you are going to define an
enterprise principally by virtue of its common purpose.
My second point.
As far as the claim that somehow we didn't
object sufficiently to a charge, I am not going to
address that in any depth. I would just direct the
Court to pages 97 through 109 of the joint appendix. It
-- it spells out exactly what we objected to, and we
objected to virtually every sentence of the instruction
that defines or purports to define an
association-in-fact enterprise.
As far as the definition of the enterprise,
we would certainly agree with Justice Breyer's
formulation that something to differentiate it as a
long-term, goal-directed, decisionmaking apparatus that
continues in the intervals between the predicate acts
would do it, but we contend that structure is largely,
it's a plain English word, it's not
antidisestablishmentarianism or something like that; the
jury should be instructed as in the Seventh and Eighth
Circuits that there has got to be a structure separate
from the pattern. If the jury has questions, we have
lots of faith in district judges, as Justice Ginsburg
pointed out; that if the jury comes back with a question
the judge could list examples tailored to the
appropriate case.
And I just want to hit the common -- the
purpose underlying RICO here. It's very significant in
my view that bank burglaries are not in fact RICO
predicate acts, and if you were to look -- if this Court
were to look at my court of appeals brief in this case,
bank burglary is not a RICO predicate act for a reason.
Congress made the judgment that bank burglaries are
adequately handled by the States, that the States can
prosecute them. And the reason why the three bank
burglaries had to be addressed up as interstate
transportation of stolen money is this is not really a
case in which RICO is properly invoked.
It's fully briefed in my court of appeals
submission. These are State crimes that a State is
perfectly capable -- capable of handling on its own.
And unless there are any further questions, I would
waive any further rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
the case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:17 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
46:21,21 47:1 analysis 48:17 50:12 52:9
51:6 arises 14:1 B
54:10 50:1,3,4,17 anomalous ascertainable 41:20 42:20
53:4,18 answer 6:10,21 10:6 19:24 Bagaric 37:21
addition 5:11 22:14 33:3 36:15 38:3,16 21:17 29:20,21
addressed 21:13 antidisestablis... asking 10:3,9 42:16 46:22,22
addresses 25:7 anti-Yugoslav... 34:8 53:21,23
24:9 53:22 anyway 37:19 associate 35:4 based 36:12,13
29:21 adjudication apart 3:15 5:1 associated 14:24 Basically 17:9
38:4 38:19 5:17 7:10,15 26:17,24 29:10 basis 20:16,17
41:11,12 adopt 38:15 8:2 15:15 20:2 31:1 32:3,4 46:4
43:7,8 adopted 10:16 apparatus 6:12 41:17 49:8 beginning 11:15
53:20 affairs 17:4 17:3 53:3 associates 24:10 behalf 1:15,19
29:4 49:11 appeals 4:19 associating 24:4 50:13
45:9 afternoon 19:2 49:2 53:19 35:23 behavior 22:22
agree 12:1 14:10 54:2 association 6:6 23:13
34:19,22 42:15 1:14 16:12 22:21,23 belief 42:14
28:12 agreed 37:24 appellate 9:5 32:19 35:2 Bellafiore 18:13
42:11 appendix 5:6,10 36:23 39:4 18:23 21:11
40:9 42:6 agreement 18:12 26:21 48:22 50:6 best 39:17
44:2,3,3 32:10 43:8 27:1,2,3 47:25 51:3 beyond 9:24
49:6 ahead 20:22 48:11,12 49:2 associations 16:11,14,17
51:9 Alec 15:22 52:20 23:15 48:22 38:14 44:9
10:12 16:16,24 17:8 approach 42:22 14:2,4,7 15:6,8 23:7
16:20 19:1,16,23 appropriate 15:9,16 24:7 bombings 38:2
24:16,19 20:10 29:12 7:22 8:21 33:1 44:8 46:2 bonding 38:9
30:4,8 31:10 53:14 50:19 52:24 boss 11:25 12:1
27:20 31:23 approved 37:16 assume 24:22 bottom 48:14
35:15 alleged 22:4 argued 51:22 authority 14:3 51:1
36:10 45:6 argument 1:12 automatically box 17:11
38:1 allow 22:24 2:2,7 3:4,6 13:23 14:19 boxes 10:22
45:7 47:20 4:14 11:15,16 available 31:21 Boyle 1:3 3:4
C changed 22:9 club 18:8,10,16 companies 39:1
called 31:21 charge 4:1,7,9 collapses 52:13 completing
33:6 37:21 5:10,11 9:16 colors 38:12 43:12
calling 13:18 9:19,22 10:4,9 come 39:14 complexity
38:20 14:1 10:10 12:12 42:20 19:13
40:4,24 calls 6:2 31:14 16:22 36:25 comes 19:18 compounds
canvas 19:12 37:2,9 48:12 33:11 34:6 51:24
capable 54:4,4 48:13 52:18 39:7 48:10 comprehensiv...
11:3 case 3:4,10 4:3 43:14 46:10,12 commerce 49:7 8:22 11:17
27:4 4:24 7:12,22 49:3 commission 31:7
29:18 8:21 9:6 11:8 charges 37:3 3:19 8:2,12 concept 27:14
48:9 11:17 12:8,20 Chief 3:3,8 8:15 10:11 16:20 concern 39:21
52:2 17:2 21:18 23:25 24:5 17:17 20:2 43:5
22:14 27:18 27:22 28:8,14 44:10 45:21 concerns 35:14
37:7,9,21 38:7 33:3 35:11 17:20 19:3,7 29:8 30:10
53:14,19 54:1 15:10 17:2,5 43:15 45:1 13:22
8:17 cases 15:10 20:6 28:20,21 commits 29:19 29:3,11 32:5
38:6,14 37:16 53:9 25:18 29:7 49:10 50:8
38:19 cited 16:1 37:22 41:5 45:7 conflating 40:5
29:20 category 33:1 clause 12:23 committing 53:21
35:17,25 caught 18:5 13:1 14:25 35:17,24 42:5 connotes 7:14
40:13,16 Cedric 30:24 26:15 46:5 consideration
53:17,21 certain 10:24 clear 16:10 common 29:11 3:16
certainly 11:13 17:22 42:24 32:4,22,23 consist 12:17
53:20 16:6 23:1 29:1 clearinghouse 42:11,15 48:23 conspiracy 8:7
cetera 23:11 clearly 34:21 52:3,7,10,11 42:12,16 43:5
52:5 course 13:8 47:11 degree 6:15 25:7,25 27:14
15:17 27:13 criminality 22:4 19:13 20:14 28:9,23 32:23
35:5 38:19 crux 20:25 19:2 21:6 46:13 50:18
50:8 D 1:18 31:3 33:5
4:14,17,19 date 11:11 deposit 10:22 distinctness
5:2 6:7 15:3 18:11 dealing 27:25 described 17:9 district 36:14
8:21 12:3 21:13,15 24:6 decade 35:9 17:14 21:23 49:3,13 53:11
17:17 25:19 26:21 December 11:11 determination diversity 22:4
31:2 36:14 decide 19:3 39:2 3:11 division 11:1
14:22 42:24 43:21,24 13:20 30:24 37:20 doing 11:2 13:24
15:2,16 52:6,20 53:18 decisional 6:11 19:8,20,20,21 35:23 40:22
32:20 53:19 54:2 decisional-ma... 29:23 34:12 42:3,6,10
courts 10:16 8:10 17:3 37:14,16 39:3 dozens 35:9,10
8:2,10 32:1 33:23 deemed 31:7 53:2 drug 16:8
20:18 covered 47:15 defendant 4:10 difficult 13:18 drug-type 16:3
33:24 co-conspirators 25:18 27:8,9 32:14,16,17,18 duplication 3:14
48:23 52:12 27:11,16,17 32:21 34:20 D.C 1:8,18
16:12 credited 18:15 50:2 difficulties E
44:1 crime 5:23 8:17 defendant's 16:23 E 2:1 3:1,1
crimes 17:21 defer 9:6 directed 6:14 27:25
39:12 43:13 52:14,23 directly 7:4 32:2 efforts 34:12
20:24 47:5 54:3 defines 52:23 discussed 37:5 16:21 28:20
29:11 33:24 23:19,22 24:12 dispense 32:25 34:8
44:1,3,3 46:3 definitively distinct 3:16 28:6 31:23
41:7,7 44:8 46:2,13 51:17 31:17 32:3,18 findings 9:1,2,6
43:3,16 47:17,24 48:3 evolved 37:6 32:19 35:2,11 13:20
49:15 49:5,6,11,14 exactly 52:21 35:23 36:24 first 4:13 6:8
49:14,15,17,18 example 18:21 42:2 45:5 10:8 11:6
13:15 50:19 51:10,18 33:8 39:1 50:7 51:3 24:17 25:5,14
27:10 51:20 52:2,15 examples 10:14 53:17 26:3 33:11
40:2,5 52:24,25 10:15,19 12:9 factors 7:7 39:20 40:6
49:4 enterprises 38:17 53:13 facts 8:23 12:8 fit 17:13 38:3
31:1 entirety 5:11 excuse 27:3 failure 5:5,13 focus 11:8
26:15,18 32:10 46:2 feel 26:8 forget 25:4
erode 52:10 7:15 8:2,12 2:8 3:5,6,8,21 formal 7:1 14:17
espouses 38:5 49:5 51:2 7:21 8:1,20 48:20
35:5 2:5,8 22:7 10:2,8 11:6 forming 3:20
4:2,6 30:3 39:23 25:19 31:2 17:15 18:1,9 37:15
9:19 40:1 41:25 32:6 35:3 37:1 18:19 19:10,22 formulation
established 42:24 49:13 19:25 20:13 46:9 53:2
14:2,5,7 29:24 42:25 extant 9:2 21:3,8,21 22:1 forth 5:22 12:25
establishing extend 34:2 23:1,9,18,21 47:16
16:7 extended 34:3 24:1 50:10,12 found 11:9,10
17:4 19:9 et 23:10 extends 8:7 50:14 21:9,17,18
24:7,13 evade 19:15 extensively figure 19:14 22:3,6 35:12
Eventually 49:9 21:12 22:17 34:20 35:21
26:3 evidence 4:2,5,9 extent 46:17 find 8:22 11:21 four 20:22 41:11
4:12,15 6:25 extortion 38:1 16:17 20:4 50:10
28:13 11:18 17:19 22:8,13 25:8 frame 22:3
18:1,20 22:2 F 28:4,15 39:11 framework
30:3,16 27:17,20 28:11 fact 13:21 14:14 45:12,12,14,17 48:20
31:1 29:4,6,9 31:18 14:18,24 16:11 45:18,19,20 Friday 19:2,11
32:6 39:23 16:12 18:15 46:12 47:9 friend 35:11
34:24 40:1 41:3,4,7 21:16 24:20 48:2 49:4,14 fully 25:23 54:2
41:17,25 42:3 45:20 25:19 26:17 50:17 function 17:6
43:1 49:24 50:5 28:17 29:10 finding 11:20,22 32:8 43:2,2
53:3 hang 18:16 I individuals 11:5
25:3,15 42:7 happens 31:21 identity 30:11 25:9,11 26:17
going 5:23 10:20 41:6 illegal 33:13 31:19 32:2
20:20 21:14 hear 3:3 52:2 implications 51:9
54:5,6 38:18 39:3,5 heist 17:25 implicit 7:6 27:19 29:2
47:9 heists 35:10 implies 20:15 infer 25:10,11
19:1 31:17 46:15 12:4,14,14 impromptu inference 48:16
38:7 51:22 52:1,3 hierarchy 9:10 inchoate 43:6 13:14
26:1 11:25 16:9 include 9:16 32:7 36:22
great 14:2 16:1 44:19,19 included 5:10 ingredients 8:14
4:8,16 25:9,10,18,20 4:20,22 6:10 3:11,17 30:18 10:13 27:11
9:8,14 26:17,23 29:10 7:3,22 9:11,24 independently 40:11,12 46:3
29:23 32:2,3 10:5,8 11:6,14 42:1 46:19
15:18 32:12 35:4,16 12:22 13:25 individual 6:16 instruct 47:14
18:3,17 35:22 37:24 14:22 15:21 12:18,20,21,22 instructed 3:17
38:8 40:11,22 16:15 18:2,9 12:25 13:9 4:25 6:9 8:22
53:11 41:6 45:6,9 20:5 21:3,8 14:4,6,11,17 8:25 11:20
16:22 47:1 Honors 50:8 25:18,23 26:2 28:15 50:16
37:13 guard 17:10 Honor's 17:1 26:4,8,9,11 51:20,23 53:8
guess 31:16 23:18 27:24 29:4,7 instruction 3:24
10:10 guide 17:3 hurdle 20:7,8 30:10,12,15,15 7:11 11:17
14:18 Guiness 15:22 hypothetical 30:21,22,25 12:6 28:20,22
guys 6:2 6:10 8:16 20:5 31:4,5 33:2 47:21 48:7
25:6 hallmark 52:7 46:4 41:14,22,24 13:19 16:22
43:25 handled 53:22 H.J 25:19 33:23 50:5,18,23 insufficient 4:2
judgment 5:3 32:25 33:6,16 L little 18:10
37:11 51:22 36:2,6,9 37:12ladies 45:17 long 21:14 29:5
40:20 4:6,9,13,24 5:9 40:4,24 41:9 14:3,6 32:2 35:7,23 38:13
49:7 6:9 8:22,24,25 41:16,20 42:9 largely 35:16 38:19 40:12
9:8,11 10:5,12 42:20 44:5,15 53:5 45:5 52:10
13:19 16:17,21 45:10,16,24 Laughter 45:25 10:25 11:12
21:9 22:3,6,8 48:14 49:17 15:23 look 19:5,17
28:3,12,18,25 53:11 54:7 52:10 48:15 53:18,19
45:11,12,13,15 J.A 36:15,25 leadership 11:3 47:6
37:23 47:14 49:3 leave 46:16 lookouts 11:2
47:7,16 50:16 51:20 K legal 12:23,25 47:16
3:8,21,23 4:8 Kennedy 6:18 legally 4:12,15 38:6
23:17 6:13,18,21 47:20 48:1,6 legal-entity 15:2 lost 44:18
35:16 7:17,24 8:15 48:14 50:24 legitimate 13:14 lot 6:3 22:4 47:4
39:2,8 8:16 9:8,14,15 kept 15:15 lengthy 7:5 lots 53:11
45:13 9:18,25 10:3 killing 38:10 letter 39:2,6,8 low 20:8
14:10,13 37:6 43:24 31:20 33:9 lunch 6:3
18:17 19:1,16 25:11 28:1,2 liable 43:7 52:11 making 13:21
17:24 21:1,4,20,22 37:2,13 39:5 limitation 24:13 Mangia 21:2
23:20,25 24:5 knowingly line 15:10 21:3,10,16,24
27:2 26:2,7,14 27:1 knowledge 41:23,24 MARC 1:15 2:3
52:20 27:5,22 28:8 16:23 18:2 list 11:3 19:5 2:8 3:6 50:12
24:18 mob 12:1 15:20 46:20 operandi 10:25 participants
39:23 15:23 normal 43:13,14 operated 45:6 51:18
54:10 modus 10:25 note 15:3 operating 10:21 participate
33:9 40:16,20 number 10:15 25:22 52:4 participated
10:4,6 41:22,24 42:17 43:23 51:17 opportunities 49:10
16:24 53:25 numerous 25:25 20:16 participates
39:10 months 30:2 N.Y 1:15 oral 1:11 2:2 3:6 27:12
34:5 35:13 24:3 participating
48:6 42:17 O order 6:1,21 29:15
movie 15:22 O 2:1 3:1 16:13 32:9 particular 22:25
21:14 52:18 organization 36:20
19:3,12 19:4 12:12 52:21,22 7:19 11:4 44:18
22:20 murder 38:2 objection 4:17 12:17 17:18,19 partnership
45:9 M.O 30:1 36:13,14,19,24 21:23 32:7 26:4
N objections 37:3 40:15 45:21 3:20 4:24 5:2
13:5 17:4 name 21:2 objective 48:24 outside 22:2 8:5 15:13
National 37:22 occurred 45:18 18:11 25:16,17,20,22
44:10 23:10 28:7 43:10 49:4 39:11 29:14,16,25
48:22 necessary 8:4 offenses 28:9 overseeing 17:6 33:19 34:21
23:16,16 28:21 office 33:10 owned 18:18 40:8 41:5,18
47:23 49:15 Oh 13:16 14:10 P 42:24 43:16,18
needs 5:22 16:11 33:11 46:18 26:21 36:25 53:10
23:4 34:23,24 49:24 44:18 51:14 people 5:20,22
12:15 38:7,8 ongoing 6:11,23 18:12 48:12 11:2 22:21
newsstand 13:3 48:20 26:20 39:3,4 41:2
38:23 51:25 presumably 9:1 prosecute 53:23
pointed 53:12 pretty 17:22 15:5 37:17 R 3:1
21:2 pool 18:22 prevail 37:8 16:2 racketeering
29:5 portion 14:25 prevent 13:14 protected 38:8 3:13 5:1,18
34:3 posited 6:10 primary 4:6 prove 27:21 7:11,16 8:6,13
38:13 20:5 13:13 24:14 28:1 32:9,17 15:14 17:17
45:5 46:7 position 13:18 principal 5:12 32:19 48:19,25 24:9,16 25:16
Posner 38:25 52:1 49:25 27:10,16 28:24
post 33:9 8:24 51:10 51:16 30:23 33:19
40:8,14
26:23
32:13,19 precisely 5:20 probably 19:15 pull 17:11 43:19 45:7
42:10,13 17:13 20:3 38:21 purports 52:23 46:5,11,14,19
16:20 17:7,20 34:13,13,20 52:11,15 53:16 raises 35:15
2:4,9 3:7 40:14,21 43:19 51:8,21 put 5:25 18:5 react 22:16
38:5 44:10 45:18,19 problems 14:8 puts 13:17 reactions 22:19
45:22 46:5,6 project 20:22 puzzled 10:5,12 read 26:7
17:1 really 37:17
37:11 53:18,20 proper 4:8 qualify 7:25 53:25
predicated properly 6:9 18:24 reason 5:2 25:3
16:2 proposed 37:2 44:7 53:12 36:22 43:21
president 7:19 propositions 44:7 regard 51:23
requiring 13:19 robbery 29:21 scanner 17:13 share 52:11
requisites 8:9 ROBERTS 3:3 scenario 15:7 show 21:5 24:12
27:24 31:5 28:19 30:14,18 scouts 17:12 32:21 33:24
Respondent roles 19:8,21 25:3,7,15 50:1,4,6
responding row 14:15 51:25 52:16 showing 12:20
44:23 rest 23:24 11:19 43:13,14 section 7:13 shown 16:11,13
25:16 Riccobene 17:2 running 21:4 sees 34:14 39:3,5
40:8 17:5 sense 37:13 shows 29:7,9
38:18 40:21,23 41:18 13:8 14:19 5:1,17 6:6 7:10 13:23 15:1
43:20 44:8 34:10 20:1 24:24 single 40:5 44:2
12:6,7 52:5 53:16,17 14:16 27:24 40:2 42:7,23 situation 29:13
31:25 right 3:10 11:7 15:11 33:8,10 28:15 26:10,12
10:17 27:5 34:11 Scalia 5:19 6:13 32:23 35:7 Solicitor 1:17
22:17 37:8 42:9 6:21 11:24 37:25 38:1 somebody 13:24
35:3 44:21,25,25 12:5 24:21 40:13 49:21,22 somebody's
46:8,9 50:20 25:4,13 27:1,5 set 12:25 13:2 19:18
13:7 ringleader 5:21 44:15,21,25 sets 35:8 sophisticated
rivals 38:10 45:3,10,16,24 Seventh 3:18 19:12
33:18 robberies 29:20 Scalia's 8:16 16:21 20:7 19:13 20:14,24
31:12 46:22,25 16:5 28:20 53:8 sorry 9:13 15:21
32:18 strongly 23:17 24:15 thefts 47:14 53:25
9:12,21 10:6 48:7 23:4 27:23 40:20
14:10 structure 3:19 supposed 17:23 20:18 33:19 treasurer 7:19
32:15,25 5:17 7:8,15,17 33:14 36:4 40:22 trial 4:17
37:3 15:13 16:19 11:15 12:12,12 15:8 16:10 34:12 39:17
14:22 20:1,8,10 34:7 44:6 26:19 28:10,21 trying 22:17
49:3 21:25 22:17,20 surely 7:14,22 29:17 32:1 23:4,7 38:22
17:2 28:23 36:20 swath 15:17 38:21,22,24 7:8,14 22:9
54:3 11:21 16:7 33:9 37:15 three 9:21 11:10 turns 41:8
structures 16:4 39:14 40:11 20:22 21:18 twice 7:13 31:22
5:15 26:22 submitted 54:8 takes 24:25 47:14 49:7 two 4:23 14:15
54:10 talk 14:18 53:23 15:14 30:12
15:1 substantive talking 3:23 thugs 38:7,8 33:21,25 34:15
43:10 26:14,15 44:22 time 8:7 15:20 37:4 39:1,3,12
24:12 subversion task 9:5 19:7 20:18,23 40:1 41:2
47:18 13:14 tell 10:7 34:18 21:23 22:3,7 42:23 44:2
51:24 suddenly 42:12 42:21 45:11,11 22:10,23 23:14 49:5
sue 41:10 tend 22:22 23:14 23:24 27:23 type 18:16 27:20
sufficiently 44:20 35:24 38:13 typical 16:2
suggesting 4:4 testimony 18:9 told 45:13,16 ultimately 49:24
33:7 43:3 text 24:10 transport 42:17 uncharged
40:12 superfluous 50:8,9,14 54:7 40:20 46:24 39:21 53:16
wait 24:21,21,21 30:10 11:16 1:13 3:2
waive 54:6 wrong 24:16,17 1111 51:2 8770 49:2
23:13,15 118 52:6 9
39:19 37:2
53:15 x 1:2,7 52:9 14 1:9
wants 37:9 18 5:15
45:6 25:14 26:6,11 14:3
21:6,20 1962(c) 5:16
5:15 18:14,24 25:12 26:22 27:7
39:11 31:25 32:17
33:3,15,18,22 52:13
20:19,20 44:13,16,22
47:22 48:5,9
48:18 49:20 3
50:9 3 2:4
48:22 38:1 39:6
40:13 4
47:2
0
43:4 53:6 10-year 11:9 522 52:5
58 18:12
52:22 9:15,21 43:3 100 39:4 46:14
36:18
31:20 50:3 74 18:12
36:18
