IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
HAWAII, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 07-1372
OFFICE OF HAWAIIAN :
AFFAIRS, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, February 25, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:10 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GEN. MARK J. BENNETT, ESQ., Attorney General, Honolulu,
Haw.; on behalf of the Petitioners.
WILLIAM M. JAY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington,
D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioners.
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ., Washington, D.C., on behalf
of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GEN. MARK J. BENNETT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
WILLIAM M. JAY, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioners 18
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GEN. MARK J. BENNETT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:10 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in case 07-1372, Hawaii
versus the Office of Hawaiian Affairs.
General Bennett.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. MARK J. BENNETT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. BENNETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
A 1993 congressional apology resolution did
not alter Hawaii's right to transfer its public lands or
repeal, by implication, prior congressional enactments
that it extinguish all competing claims to those lands.
It was, as its sponsor said at the time, a simple
apology, and no more.
The lands in question were the former Crown
and government lands of the Kingdom of Hawaii. The
Republic of Hawaii was the successor in interest and
ownership to those lands and was recognized as such by
the United States. The 1898 Newlands Resolution of
Annexation recited that the Republic of Hawaii was
ceding the absolute fee ownership of those lands to the
United States, and that that cession was accepted,
ratified and confirmed. Once the United States Congress
so acted, all competing claims to title were
extinguished, and under precedent going back almost
200 years, the determinations by Congress to accept the
cession were final and conclusive on any court.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Excuse me. Does that
proposition settle the question whether your opponents
have equitable interest in the lands?
MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, what the
Respondents have contended from day one in this case is
that they have a property right in this -- in the land,
and the Newlands Resolution conclusively settled that
question. There is no property interest that could have
competed with the United States as perfect title. That
perfect title was passed to the State of Hawaii in 1959
through the 1959 Hawaii Admission Act.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But would the state of
Hawaii, under Hawaii law, be entitled to take the
position, if it so chose, that as the new owner of the
lands, it has a special duty as a trustee that some
other owner might not?
MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, the Admission Act
gives the State the right to manage and dispose of the
lands according to State law. So the political branches
certainly have the right to decide which lands they are
going to use for which of the five purposes --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then -- then it's just
a question of whether the Hawaiian Supreme Court --
assuming that it made the decision that I hypothetically
stated -- whether the Hawaiian Supreme Court, as opposed
to Hawaiian legislature, could make the determination of
whether or not there is some special trust obligation
imposed on the State of Hawaii by reason of its own
duties.
MR. BENNETT: But, Your Honor, in this case
what Respondents urged was that the Apology Resolution
changed the legal landscape and commanded the State to
hold these lands possibly in perpetuity without
alienation. The Hawaii Supreme Court specifically found
that the Apology Resolution dictated the results here,
that plaintiffs claims did not even arise until the
Apology Resolution was signed into law by President
Clinton. In addition, the plaintiffs -- the Respondents
urged upon the Hawaii Supreme Court a property right, a
property and ownership interest in these lands. Even if
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But, General Bennett, if
I understand correctly, looking to your question
presented, the only thing before us is the effect of the
Apology Resolution. The question presented doesn't say
anything about the Admissions Act or the Newlands
Resolution. So shouldn't we just stick to the question
as you presented it? Whatever the picture is, does the
Apology Resolution have any substantive effect?
MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, that certainly is
one question before the Court, but we believe fairly
included in that question is the issue of the nature of
the State sovereign authority. The question presented
talks about whether the Apology Resolution changed in
any way the State's sovereign authority, and that
question -- certainly interior and predicate to an
intelligent resolution of that question is the nature of
the State sovereign.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why is it necessary? Why
isn't it sufficient just to say that this resolution has
no substantive effect, period, and then remand to the
Hawaii Supreme Court?
MR. BENNETT: Because, Your Honor, the
Hawaii Supreme Court's decision also rests on a premise
foreclosed by Federal law, that is that there are
competing claims to title. As late as page 18 of the
red brief, Respondents even say now that Native
Hawaiians are entitled to these lands as a matter of
property law, but they do not say anywhere in the red
brief how that property law claim arises or how that
property law claim could survive the Newlands
Resolution, the Hawaii Organic Act, or the Admission
Act.
JUSTICE SOUTER: General, the difficulty I
have is that not only do they not say, so the Supreme
Court of Hawaii didn't say so either. And it seems to
me that we would be well advised to make sure that we
understand the reasoning of the Supreme Court of Hawaii
before we start talking about the relationship between
the various Federal statutes and whatever this claim may
be. I simply don't understand the claim myself.
I do understand your point, because I think
this much is clear from the Hawaiian opinion: That they
think the Apology Resolution seriously affects the
claim. That we can deal with, but once we get out of
that, the -- the whole case seems murky to me. Am I
missing something?
MR. BENNETT: Well, Your Honor, the Hawaii
Supreme Court, at page 69a of the appendix for the
petition, says that this was a claim seeking an
injunction -- injunctive relief with regard to property
rights. At page 87a of the petition appendix, the
Hawaii Supreme Court said there are questions regarding
the title to the State's ceded lands.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There -- there may well
be, but then the Hawaii Supreme Court chose its grounds,
and it said at one point the resolution dictates the
preservation of the ceded lands. At another place it
said that Federal law provides the basis for its
decision and that State trust law is interwoven with
that Federal law. It also said that Federal law grounds
the decision and provides the governing legal standards.
Now, they could not have been clearer. They
repeated at least five times that their decision rested
on the resolution, that everything turned on that
resolution having substantive effect. That's why they
said that their decision was driven by Federal law. And
I don't know why we shouldn't take the Hawaii Supreme
Court at its word repeated so many times.
MR. BENNETT: Well, Your Honor, we believe
that Respondents' attempt to trivialize this Court's
jurisdiction -- they say, for example, in the brief in
opposition that even if this Court were to reverse, the
Hawaii Supreme Court will simply reinstate the exact
same decision, and presumably they would press upon the
court the exact parameters they've pressed for 14 years
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We don't --
MR. BENNETT: -- that is --
JUSTICE BENNETT: We don't know that for
sure. It may well be, but there is a large -- large
difference, and if they're relying on Federal ground
that insulates them from any checks by the Hawaii
polity, but if they are forced to rely on State law,
then it's up to the people of Hawaii whether they like
it or not. They could change the State statutory law,
equitable notion, constitutional law. But by doing what
the Hawaii Supreme Court did, they have taken the case
out of the realm of State law, subject to the political
check, put it on Federal grounds.
So I think that that's what -- the issue
properly before this Court, and not anything about the
interpretation of the Admissions Act, which -- if it's
implicit in your question, it's a little hard to see.
Ordinarily, if a party wants us to address the effects
of a piece of legislation, they will mention that in the
question presented.
MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, I agree that this
decision clearly rests on Federal grounds, but we would
also suggest that the question presented talks about
whether the State's sovereign authority is stripped, and
the State's sovereign authority, we would submit, is
clear.
The United States had perfect title. The
State of Hawaii succeeded to the United States perfect
title. Respondents do not suggest that anywhere in
their pleadings why that is not so, or why they continue
to press even with this Court this property right claim
to these lands. And so we would suggest that it would
be prudent for the Court to address what we believe is
the fairly included question of the nature of the
State's sovereign authority, especially as it would
appear to be entirely not subject to contravention by
the Respondents.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm not sure it
would be prudent when the great bulk of the opinion is
based on the Apology Resolution. And I -- I certainly
do think you have a powerful argument if the Apology
Resolution presents us with a Federal question. But the
more far-reaching question -- I just inferred --
suggests -- might not even be very specifically within
the question presented, and even if it's fairly
embraced, you used the word "prudent." It seems prudent
for us to confine our decision to the effect of the
Apology Resolution and whether or not the Hawaiian
Supreme Court got that part of that right.
MR. BENNETT: Well, with -- with respect,
Your Honor, the Court could limit its ruling, but in a
case that has been gone on for 14 years and which, in
virtually every pleading, the Respondents have filed
they have asserted essentially that the State lacks
title to these lands because the United States lacked
title, the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii was
illegal, and that's the precise reason for 14 years the
State has either been through an injunction or, as a
practical matter, not been able to alienate its lands,
that this Court certainly has the ability for a question
that we believe --
JUSTICE ALITO: If the Apology Resolution is
put aside, I'm not quite sure what is left, other than
State-law issues.
MR. BENNETT: Well, what's left --
JUSTICE ALITO: You could -- would there be
anything to prevent the Hawaiian legislature from
passing a law that says, we have absolute -- we have
title to these lands, but we are going to impose a
five-year moratorium on any transfer of these lands
because we want to promote a reconciliation process?
MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, certainly under
the terms of the Admission Act, the authority given the
political branches for the management and disposition of
the lands is broad and would run up against only the
Federal common law of trust that the Ninth Circuit says
governs --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that's not what the
Hawaiian Supreme Court said. I am reading from page 98a
of the petition appendix, the concluding portion of the
opinion. "We hold, number one, that the Apology
Resolution and related state legislation give rise to
the state's fiduciary duty."
The only Federal statute mentioned is the
Apology Resolution, and the rest of their reasoning
seems to rest upon some kind of State equity law or
trust law. Now, that trust law may ultimately be
inconsistent with prior Federal acts, but the only --
the only thing they are disclosing right now is -- aside
from the Apology Resolution, seems to be State trust
law.
MR. BENNETT: Well, Your Honor, the Hawaii
Supreme Court did say that this is an injunction based
on property rights. The Hawaii Supreme Court did say --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But trust law is based on
somebody's property rights. We don't know whether they
are talking about legal rights or equitable rights, and
that's consistent with the statement I just read to you.
MR. BENNETT: Well, Your Honor, at page 85-A
of the appendix to the petition the Court said that the
Congress recognized that native Hawaiians had
unrelinquished claims to the ceded lands. And as a
result of that recognition the Apology Resolution
dictated the entry of this injunction.
We believe that clearly that is not so, but
that this idea of unrelinquished claims is an
unrelinquished property-right claim. This is what was
urged upon the Hawaii Supreme Court at every stage.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But, General, I think --
with respect, I still don't know what the position of
the Hawaiian Supreme Court is going to be if this Court
rules that the Apology Resolution does not support the
proposition that you just read.
I don't know whether at that point the
Hawaiian Supreme Court is going to say, okay, all we
have got left to deal with now is State trust law, or
whether they've got to pull another rabbit out of the
hat and say, but there is -- there is some kind of -- of
prior -- there is some kind of a -- a claim against
which prior Federal law could not prevail.
I don't know. And I -- that's -- that's why
it seems to me, to -- to say the least, imprudent to
wade into it at this point. The one thing we know that
seems to have been significant to their decision is the
Apology Resolution. And I think we would be wise to
stick to that.
MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, what our response
would be is a simple one: That the issue of the State's
title would in our view be undisputed. The United
States's title is perfect and indisputable, and the
State's title is perfect and indisputable. And this
Court has said that one of the functions in -- in cases
where respondents claim an adequate and independent
State-law ground is to remand the case by disabusing the
State court of incorrect notions of what Federal law
either permits or requires.
JUSTICE ALITO: A point on which both you
and your adversaries seem to agree is that the Apology
Resolution really is not critical to the decision of the
Hawaii Supreme Court. Because if you thought that
simply taking the Apology Resolution off the books would
provide an acceptable outcome from your point of view,
you would be happy with our deciding just that narrow
question. And your opponent explicitly says that the
apology resolution wasn't critical to the decision of
the Hawaii Supreme Court; isn't that true?
MR. BENNETT: Yes, Your Honor, and they have
not asked this court to affirm.
JUSTICE ALITO: And isn't it true that you
don't think that just saying the Apology Resolution did
not change anything would be insufficient?
MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, because it seems
to us clear that both the respondents and Hawaii Supreme
Court believe that there are property-right claims that
the Native Hawaiians have. And we believe those
property-right claims are clearly inconsistent with
Federal law, the Newlands Resolution, and the Admission
Act, and that there is no reason for this Court not to
reach such a clear claim.
JUSTICE BREYER: But they don't say that --
there is nothing in the Resolution and nothing in the --
does anything in the Court's opinion or the Resolution
say that the claims are valid? We all know they have
claims. They have been making claims. Is there
anything in any document I have that says the claims are
valid claims? Maybe they are valid, and maybe they are
not.
MR. BENNETT: The -- the only thing is the
position of the Respondents who assert --
JUSTICE BREYER: Of course, they think they
are valid.
MR. BENNETT: But I mean --
JUSTICE BREYER: So -- so since you have
normally one group thinks they are valid; another group
thinks they are invalid. Well, here we are. Let them
fight it out.
And all we can say is that this Resolution
of the Apology doesn't really say who's right. And if
Hawaii wants to give some more money, or whatever they
want to do, to the Native Hawaiians, that's their
affair. What's the -- what's the problem?
MR. BENNETT: Well, Your Honor, it is
certainly true that the Apology Resolution does not as
Respondents state recognize the validity of any claims,
but federal law forecloses the validity of any claims.
And we believe that that is a question that is fairly
included interior to the question of whether the
Resolution stripped Hawaii of its sovereign authority.
It's only natural for the Court to declare what we
believe is the indisputable proposition that Hawaii's
sovereign authority is based on --
JUSTICE BREYER: Could the Hawaiian
Legislature pass a law saying that the Native Hawaiians
have claims? Those claims, because of the Federal 1950
-- whatever it is -- are not valid any more. But that
was pretty unfair to them. And, therefore, what we
think we should do is the following. And then they pass
a whole lot of things that they think would be
appropriate to do in light of what I just said. What
stops that?
MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, the -- legislature
has wide discretion in managing and disposing of the
assets.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the legislature, if
they had wanted to -- as I understand the Admission Act,
it lists five purposes to any one purpose. And the
legislature, if it so chose, could say, we want this
property -- the proceeds from this property to be for
the exclusive betterment of the conditions of the Native
Hawaiians. They could. It would be up to the
legislature to give it all to the Native Hawaiians.
MR. BENNETT: That would not violate the
Admission Act, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that would not?
MR. BENNETT: That would not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would it violate the
Admission Act if the legislature had not said -- said we
are giving it to them because we want to, because we
think it's a good idea. No, we are giving it to them
because we think they have a right to it.
MR. BENNETT: Your Honor-
JUSTICE SCALIA: And we feel that we must
give it to them because it's theirs.
MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would that violate the
Admission Act?
MR. BENNETT: The legislature believed that
it bettered the condition of Native Hawaiians to provide
proceeds from land to the Native Hawaiians. The
Admission Act gives them that ability to do it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did you answer my question
just then?
MR. BENNETT: Yes. I'd -- I'd like to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Please, let me put my
question again. Let's assume that the legislature does
not say, we want to give it to the Native Hawaiians
because we like the Native Hawaiians or because we think
they deserve it; but, rather, we think we have to give
it to the Native Hawaiians because it's theirs.
MR. BENNETT: I think that would be contrary
to Federal law, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think it would be.
MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, if I -- if I may
reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Jay.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM M. JAY
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
MR. JAY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Three binding Federal laws make clear that
the State of Hawaii has absolute fee title to the lands
in the Federal trust and also has the power to sell
those lands for the purposes Congress set out in the
trust instrument.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you think on
the question-presented issue? Are all of the Federal
laws on which the Hawaii Supreme Court relied to say
there was a cloud on the title before the court.
MR. JAY: We think that they have been in
the case from the beginning, and they -- they were
clearly pressed in the State supreme court. And we
think they are fairly encompassed in the question
presented partly because, as General Bennett said, the
-- the questions referenced to the State's sovereign
authority, which necessarily includes consideration of
the act which made Hawaii a sovereign state, the
Admissions Act, is -- is a necessary antecedent to the
resolution of that question.
But also the admission in the Apology
Resolution, itself, in the preamble on which the
Respondents rely extensively goes into great detail
about the Newlands Resolution and the cession of
absolute fee and ownership by the Republic of Hawaii to
the United States.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I don't see where this
law -- where those laws get us. The -- the argument
that is made on the other side is that the Native
Hawaiians have a moral claim to these lands, not that
they have a property-right claim to the lands.
And if the State of Hawaii, acting through
any branch of its government -- and that is not a matter
of concern to us -- says they have a moral claim to the
land and, therefore, there should not be any land
transfers for some period of time, what's inconsistent
with Federal law in their doing that?
MR. JAY: Let me answer that in two steps,
Justice Alito. The first step is that the State's
supreme court permanent injunction, although Respondents
are now saying that the claims on which -- the claims on
which -- they state are moral in nature, but a permanent
injunction is a legal obligation and enforceable by
contempt.
So the State supreme court, by effectively
locking up the lands for an indeterminant period of
time, has treated them as -- as legally valid and has
entered relief that is legal in nature.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is -- is it the function of
the Hawaiian Supreme Court to declare moral obligations?
MR. JAY: Well, Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would there be any problem
-- certainly there is noted the legislature deems there
to be a moral obligation and gives the land away on that
basis. But do you -- do you think there -- there might
be some democracy problem if -- if the Supreme Court of
Hawaii goes around pronouncing moral obligations and --
and giving away land on that basis?
MR. JAY: Well, Justice Scalia I guess the
second half to my answer to Justice Alito as well, which
is that the State supreme court is not free as a matter
of State trust law or otherwise to formulate obligations
that don't relate to the State's obligation as trustee
of the Federal trust --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But isn't it perfectly
clear that's a question of State law?
MR. JAY: I don't think so, Justice Stevens,
because that State law has to comply with the
limitations set out in section 5(f)of the Admissions
Act. To be sure, the political branches operating as
trustee of the trust have broad discretion to allocate
lands within and among the five purposes set out in
section 5(f).
But what the State can't do and what in
particular the State courts can't do in the name of
formulating State trust law is to rely on considerations
that are all together outside the trust. In this case,
any consideration of the unrelinquished claims of the
Native Hawaiians would not be based on their status as
one of the beneficiaries of the trust.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Are you saying that the
State court couldn't do it but the legislature could?
MR. JAY: I'm saying the -- the -- no,
Justice Stevens. The State court can't rely, nor, I
think, could the State legislature --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Could the legislature do
it?
MR. JAY: The legislature could determine
that the wisest use of the lands today, the way that
would best further -- promote the welfare of Native
Hawaiians today would be not to sell it. The
legislature certainly could do that and then could enact
a moratorium that was consistent with that view.
But what it can't do is treat it -- and this
is the question Justice Scalia asked at the end of
General Bennett's presentation -- what the State is not
free to do is, based on claims by Native Hawaiians, not
as beneficiaries of the section 5(f) trust, but based on
considerations that arose before the Admissions Act was
ever enacted, based on -- based on their status as
competing claimants to the title of the land, give them
an equitable, moral, or otherwise claim to lock up the
use of the land.
The theory that the Respondents advanced in
the state Supreme Court under the name of trust law is
that a trustee may not, in furtherance of a trust,
engage in an illegal act. And that is on Joint Appendix
141A to 143A and other places in the record. And the
illegal act they contemplate is the continued ownership
of the lands by the State of Hawaii. So, the State
cannot, in ostensible furtherance of the federal trust,
rely on State law principles that presume the illegality
of the federal trust or the illegality --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The State power -- the
State legislative power to act depends on the validity
of its reasoning.
MR. JAY: Well, Justice Stevens, the
State -- the State has given authority to act for
particular purposes. And so, the purpose of the -- of
the -- for which the State acts is necessarily relevant.
The State can't act for a purpose that is not --
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the position that
it's -- it is imposing a moratorium on land transfers
because it thinks this is the best way to promote the
interests of the Native Hawaiians, and part of their
thinking is that there was an inequity done when
absolute title was transferred to the United States and
then to the State of Hawaii? Would that be a violation
of federal law?
MR. JAY: I think, Justice Alito, that if
the state made that determination with respect to the
classic Native Hawaiians who are defined in the
Admissions Act as -- as one of the present day
beneficiaries of the trust, and determined that it
was -- that that was the best way to act for the
betterment of Native Hawaiians, which is a permissible
trust purpose, that that would be permissible.
But for the State to act on considerations
that are wholly extrinsic to the trust, to treat the
native -- the claims of Native Hawaiians as valid, even
though they are -- and to assume a duty to the Native
Hawaiians that has nothing to do with the State's
obligations as trustee of the section 5(f) trust, we
think that would be impermissible.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that doesn't seem to be
what the Supreme Court of Hawaii has done. The Supreme
Court of Hawaii, in effect, has said the land is tied up
until these people who are currently negotiating, the
State, the Native Hawaiians and -- what is it, the
United Church of Christ, all come to a -- in effect, a
resolution and a reconciliation.
Whatever that means, it does not sound to me
as though it is the recognition of a legal title claim
or indeed the validity so far as courts are concerned
with validity of any claim the Native Hawaiians are
making. They are just saying, no more land transfers
until these people sit down and make up their
differences.
Isn't that all the court is saying at this
point?
MR. JAY: Well, the court said,
Justice Souter, that there is a fiduciary obligation not
to make these land transfers at any time until this
indeterminate point in the future which reconciliation
is achieved.
But to say -- to say that that -- that they
are not thereby pronouncing on the validity of the
title, I think that is inconsistent with the Newlands
Resolution.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't the fact that you and
I are having this exchange a pretty good indication that
we don't know what they meant exactly by that? The only
thing we can be sure of is that that thought the Apology
Resolution had some legal significance. They said, you
know, it's required after the Apology Resolution.
We can say you are right or you are wrong,
and I think we know what -- what we are talking about.
But to go beyond that, it seems to me, that we are
wading into an argument that you and I can't settle
here.
MR. JAY: Well, I wholly agree,
Justice Souter, that the State supreme court thought
that the Apology Resolution had significance and that
the Apology Resolution --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: More than significance.
I am reading the sentence that immediately follows the
one that General Bennett brought to our attention on
page 85A. It says, "Accordingly, the Apology Resolution
dictates that the ceded lands should be preserved
pending a reconciliation between the United States and
the Native Hawaiian people."
It is very fear language, dictates. And
that's why I am really puzzled as how this Court has any
business wading into any question other than telling the
Hawaii Supreme Court either their right about what the
resolution dictates or they are wrong, and they are
wrong because it's a nice apology but it's without
substantive effect.
MR. JAY: Well, I certainly agree,
Justice Ginsburg, that the State supreme court thought
the Apology Resolution dictated the entry of the
injunction, and the -- also on page 85A the State
supreme court says that the Apology Resolution gives
rises to the -- to a fiduciary duty to Native Hawaiians.
And it is -- it is that principle that the
State supreme court was able to find a fiduciary duty
and impose it on the State's trusteeship obligation,
even though that fiduciary duty arises outside the
section 5(f) trust. And that is why we think that the
scope of the State -- of the State's obligation as
trustee is within the Court's review at this stage.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Jay.
MR. JAY: Thank you, Mr. Chief justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Shanmugam?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
The only issue properly presented in this
case is whether the Hawaii Supreme Court concluded that
the Apology Resolution created an affirmative federal
obligation not to sell ceded land. In our view, it did
not.
The Hawaii Supreme Court held only that the
sale of ceded lands would breach the State's fiduciary
duty to Native Hawaiians under State law. And it relied
on the Apology Resolution only for its recognition that
Native Hawaiians have claims to the ceded lands that are
currently being addressed through the political process.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, they relied on
federal law to create the fiduciary obligation. So if
we think that federal law did not create the fiduciary
obligation, what should we do?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Then the Court should vacate
and remand. But we believe the better interpretation of
the Hawaii Supreme Court's opinion is that it believed
that the source of the fiduciary duty at issue was State
law and not Federal law. To be sure --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All Federal law?
All Federal law? In other words, not simply the Apology
Resolution but the other Federal provisions?
MR. SHANMUGAM: As the source for fiduciary
duty?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think
those -- yes.
MR. SHANMUGAM: The source for the fiduciary
duty, according to the Hawaii Supreme Court, was State
law. To the extent that the Hawaii Supreme Court --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Shanmugam, on page 99,
the State supreme court is saying, inasmuch as the
Apology Resolution and related State legislation give
rise to a fiduciary duty. They are saying the Apology
Resolution did so, too, not only State law.
MR. SHANMUGAM: They did say at various
points in the opinion that the Apology Resolution,
together with State law, gave rise to the fiduciary
duty.
But I think that if one looks at the
critical portion of the Hawaii Supreme Court's opinion
on pages 31A to 32A, where the Hawaii Supreme Court
actually discusses the relevance of the Apology
Resolution, the Court makes clear that it is relying on
it only for the acknowledgment that Native Hawaiians
have unresolved claims.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then how to you explain
the language, over and over again, I won't repeat it,
but they said this resolution of ours is dictated by,
compelled by, the Apology Resolution? Without the
Apology Resolution it would be an entirely different
case. And now you seem to be taking what the Hawaii
Supreme Court put as the necessary link, the Apology
Resolution, before that this would have been impossible,
and you are treating it now as sort of window dressing,
icing on the cake, really didn't matter.
But we would disrespect the Hawaii Supreme
Court if we didn't take them at their word and say --
using words such as "dictated," "compelled." You -- you
are treating this as sort of just part of the
atmosphere.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, it was more than mere
window dressing, Justice Ginsburg. The apology
resolution really did confirm the factual predicate for
Respondent's State law claim. And I do mean to
emphasize that these have been State law claims from the
outset. If you take a look at the original complaint in
this case, which is found in the Joint Appendix at pages
34a to 36a, the only source of law on which we rely for
the counts at issue here was article 12, section 4 --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's what you relied on
but it's not what the Hawaii Supreme Court relied on,
and I would repeat the point I made in the prior
argument: what's worrisome about this is they are
fastening on a piece of Federal legislation and said, we
are compelled to do this because of Federal law. What
that does is it removes it from the Hawaii political
process.
If they left Federal law out of it, and they
said truly this decision rests on State law, we think
that the title belongs with the Native Hawaiians, then
they have to answer to the policy; and here the Hawaii
Supreme Court insulates themselves by using the Federal
law as a crutch.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Let me -- let me be clear
about this, Justice Ginsburg, if the Hawaii Supreme
Court's opinion is read to construe the Apology
Resolution as creating some affirmative duty or
obligation as a matter of Federal law, we agree that
that would be erroneous. And if the Court --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you agree that there
would be a Federal question if the Hawaiian Supreme
Court said the Apology Resolution dictates our results?
MR. SHANMUGAM: No, because we believe that
read in context, Justice Kennedy, that that statement is
consistent with our theory of the Hawaii Supreme Court's
reliance on the Apology Resolution. So --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why doesn't the Hawaii
Supreme Court's reliance upon Hawaiian law to establish
that there is some property right on the part of these
native Hawaiians -- why doesn't that conflict with
Federal law?
MR. SHANMUGAM: The Hawaii Supreme Court
relied on Hawaii law only for the existence of the
fiduciary duty and that fiduciary duty has repeatedly
been recognized by the Hawaii Supreme Court. That duty
gives Native Hawaiians an equitable or beneficial
interest in the plan.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't care what you call
it; it's a property interest.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: As I read the Federal law,
it extinguished all property rights in these lands; the
lands were transferred to the Federal Government; and
the Federal Government transferred them in absolute fee
without any encumbrances to the State of Hawaii. Now if
you are telling me the Hawaii Supreme Court is now
finding as a matter of State law that there is a
property interest on the part of the Native Hawaiians --
I don't care what you call it, equitable or whatever --
it seems to me that is flat contradiction of Federal
law, and probably is an issue that we ought to address
in this opinion.
MR. SHANMUGAM: There are two separate
issues, Justice Scalia. The first is what was the
source for the injunction in this case. And the source
of the injunction was Respondent's instant claim for
breach of fiduciary duty. Now to be sure, we were
arguing that there would be a breach of the fiduciary
duty to Native Hawaiians precisely because Native
Hawaiians have underlying claim to the land. It's those
underlying claims that trigger all of these additional
Federal issues that Petitioners are now seeking to
inject into the case.
But I think that the critical point for
purposes of this Court's review at this stage is that in
the Hawaii Supreme Court, we freely and repeatedly
conceded that any underlying claims to ceded lands would
be nonjusticiable. That much was clear as a matter of
State law.
JUSTICE BREYER: You concede -- you concede
that the Apology Resolution does not say that the
Hawaiian people's claims are valid.
MR. SHANMUGAM: The Apology Resolution --
JUSTICE BREYER: Does it say that? Yes or
no.
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- does not directly speak
to the merits of any underlying claims.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, so if that's so, do
you object to a three-sentence pro curiam opinion in
this case where we say, to the extent that the Hawaiian
Supreme Court could be read to suggest that the Apology
Resolution either resolved or cast a cloud, legally
speaking, on the title of the trust land, or suggested
in any way that land be enjoined -- the sale be
enjoined, the Court made a mistake; and insofar as it is
resting on State law, that's up to them.
MR. SHANMUGAM: I -- I think so, with one
caveat and I don't mean to quibble --
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you think your draft --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You would object to
that?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think we would acquiesce
in that with one small quibble, which is that I think
the issue being debated here is not whether the Hawaii
Supreme Court relied on the Apology Resolution as
creating some cloud on title. Precisely because we
conceded below that the underlying claims were
nonjusticiable, the Hawaii Supreme Court did not opine
on the merits of those underlying claims. The only
issue is whether the Hawaii Supreme Court believed that
the Apology Resolution created a fiduciary obligation to
essentially preserve and protect the ceded lands, until
those underlying --
JUSTICE BREYER: How could it have done
that? I mean, I didn't see anything in here that
suggests anything like that. That is to suggest that
the Apology Resolution created an obligation on the part
of the State courts to enjoin sales until everything was
worked out. Now I have read this Apology Resolution
about six times, and I certainly didn't see anything
like that.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes. And we agree that the
Apology Resolution could not be read to create some
affirmative duty not to sell the ceded lands.
JUSTICE BREYER: You agree that the Apology
Resolution does not say who's right about the claim?
MR. SHANMUGAM: No. There are various --ere
are various findings in the Apology Resolution that
could potentially be relevant to the ultimate
disposition of the land.
JUSTICE BREYER: Like what?
MR. SHANMUGAM: It is, after all,
significant that Congress --
JUSTICE BREYER: What?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Congress expressed its
support for the reconciliation process, Justice Breyer,
and that would provide an obvious boost in the Hawaii
legislature for the ultimate resolution of those claims;
and it's really for that reason, to get back to
Justice Ginsburg's question, and we feel it's important-
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If -- if you took Federal
law, the Apology Resolution, out of the picture, the
Hawaii Supreme Court could reach the result that it
reached and then we might have questions about its
consistency with the Admissions Act and the Newlands
Resolution; but as Justice Breyer said, if we disabuse
them of the notion that there is any Federal compulsion
here, then the rest is to be sorted out. We wouldn't
have to say that they have a claim under State law, just
not address it.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes. I think that's it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the political process
question I think is really bothersome, that the Hawaii
Supreme Court chose to use this Federal crutch. It
seems a very weak reed.
MR. SHANMUGAM: And it's for that reason,
Justice Ginsburg, that we freely concede that if the
Hawaii Supreme Court had relied on the Apology
Resolution as creating some Federal duty, that would be
problematic. That would be not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about the
Newlands Resolution and Admission Act and the Organic
Law, do you acknowledge that if the Hawaii Supreme Court
relied on those, that also would be inappropriate?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, it's hard to say
because it would depend on how they relied on them, but
I think that the critical point --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They relied on them
the same way you say they relied on the Apology
Resolution, to give rise to a fiduciary responsibility
under State law.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I don't think that a
Federal act could be read as creating a fiduciary duty
not to sell the ceded lands. So I think I would concede
that that would be problematic as well. But I think
that the question before the Court according to
Petitioners is whether an injunction, even if that
injunction were framed solely in terms of State law,
might itself contravene the Newlands Resolution by
virtue of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you would have no
-- just to carry on the opinion-drafting process, you
would have no objection to an opinion that said no
source of Federal law gave rise to a duty under State
law, fiduciary or otherwise; that any further
proceedings on remand should be based solely on State
law?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think that that is
right in the sense that we certainly think that the
Hawaii Supreme Court in the first place intended to rely
on a State law of fiduciary duty. And we would
certainly have no problem with and indeed would welcome
a remand that afforded the Hawaii Supreme Court an
opportunity to do what we think they did in the first
place.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They do nothing at all?
Could I get back to Justice Breyer's three-sentence pro
curiam, where we just say to the extent that the Supreme
Court of Hawaii relied upon the Apology Resolution as
creating any -- any property entitlement in the
Hawaiians, it was in error. Okay, we send it back to
the Hawaiian Supreme Court and the Hawaii Supreme Court
smiles, and doesn't do a blessed thing. Leaves --
leaves the injunction against any distribution of the
land in effect. What -- what happens then?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I don't think they
would do that, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't?
MR. SHANMUGAM: On remand, I think that they
would consider the issue of whether the injunction could
be granted on State law, which after ball was the basis
of our complaint from day one in this case. And there
is certainly language --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not if we said "to the
extent that." I mean, if we said it is -- it's grounded
on the proposition that the Apology Resolution creates
property rights, and that's wrong; then they have to do
something.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, presumably --
JUSTICE SCALIA: To the extent that it may
be grounded on that, we take no position on whether it's
grounded on that or not --
MR. SHANMUGAM: Presumably, Justice
Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA. -- why would that require
any action on their part?
MR. SHANMUGAM: If the Court were to write
that opinion, I assume the last line of the opinion
would be to vacate and remand, and that would eliminate
the injunction and so the Hawaii Supreme Court would
have the case once again; and at that point the Hawaii
Supreme Court could clarify that the source of fiduciary
duty at issue was State law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not simply a
question of the source of the fiduciary duty. It,
presumably, in the course of saying what the Apology
Resolution, the Newlands Act, the Organic Act, and the
Admission Act had to say, we may well say something to
the effect that, because it conveyed perfect title, it's
inconsistent with the cloud of that title, under a
fiduciary obligation created by State law or anything
else.
MR. SHANMUGAM: And if the Hawaii Supreme
Court on remand, Mr. Chief Justice, addressed the merits
of any underlying legal claims, then the Court could
review the decision, and at that point it might have a
sense of, for instance, what those legal claims actually
are.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if we told them
that these various Federal resolutions, including the
Apology Resolution, conveyed title to the State in a
particular way that precluded the burdening of the
State's title on the basis of Federal law, then they
would have to find a basis under State law that was not
inconsistent with the Federal law's conveying of perfect
title.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, that is presumably
always true, but, you know, I think for purposes of the
current posture of the current case, Mr. Chief Justice,
the only Federal issue that is before the Court is the
question of whether the Apology Resolution was the
source of the underlying obligation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And do you think --
MR. SHANMUGAM: Petitioners did not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you think that that
resolution is distinguishable in any way from the
apology that the United States made to the people of
Japanese ancestry who were interned after World War II?
The United States did say -- it was -- I think it was an
executive order by President Ford that, in no uncertain
terms, stated that the United States made a dreadful
error and there was never reason for rounding these
people up and putting them in interment camps.
Did -- is there any difference? And that,
as I understand it, had no substantive effect until
Congress passed legislation providing for compensation.
MR. SHANMUGAM: The -- the Apology
Resolution in this case does not speak directly to the
merits of any underlying claims. What does do is
recognize that the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii
was illegal, apologized for the Federal Government's
involvement in that overthrow, and, in the operative
provision of the resolution, expresses support for the
reconciliation process. And it is that expression of
support on which the Hawaii Supreme Court critically
relied here in informing its application of State law.
JUSTICE BREYER: If I said that -- just in
the opinion -- and said just what you said, and nothing
else about the resolution, say we don't see any other
way in which the resolution could have supported this,
would that -- is that okay with you?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes, that would be okay,
Justice Breyer, and I do think that it would be
important for this Court to make clear that to the
extent that the Hawaii Supreme Court, in any subsequent
remand, relies on the Apology Resolution only for what
are essentially factual findings, its acknowledgment
that Native Hawaiians have unrelinquished claims, which
is undoubtedly true as a factual matter -- I don't hear
petitioners to suggest otherwise -- and its recognition
that there is an ongoing reconciliation process, that is
entirely proper. And the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But then it would
also have to just -- the opinion we're drafting would go
further, I suppose, and since we are interpreting all
these Federal provisions, it may not be sufficient to
say that it did not create this obligation and the
Hawaiian Supreme Court was wrong to do that, but that it
precluded the creation under State law of this type of
obligation.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And if the Hawaiian
Supreme Court wants to create, under State law, a
particular type of fiduciary obligation grounded on the
status of the land prior to admission, then it has to
run -- under the Supremacy Clause, it has to be
consistent with the Federal provisions.
MR. SHANMUGAM: But the Hawaii Supreme
Court, in the opinion under review, did not ground that
duty on any judgment about the validity of the original
conveyance of title --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I'm not saying
they did. That's the first question. I'm not saying
they grounded it on Federal law; I'm saying we would
have to determine whether Federal law precluded the
grounding of the fiduciary duty under the status of the
land prior to admission.
MR. SHANMUGAM: But I do think,
Mr. Chief Justice, that that is an entirely discrete
question from the question presented, and it's entirely
discrete precisely because this argument concerning the
Newlands Resolution could have arisen, even if the
injunction were, as we believe it was, unambiguously
based solely on State law with nary a reference to the
Apology Resolution.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Native Hawaiians --
MR. SHANMUGAM: And it is precisely --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Native Hawaiians --
they do get 20 percent of the proceeds, correct?
MR. SHANMUGAM: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And what -- that comes
out of Hawaii legislation?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes, that's right. It comes
out of -- I think it's Hawaii statute 10-13.5, and as a
matter of State law they get 20 percent of the revenue
from the ceded-lands trust, though the amount of that
revenue has itself been the subject of protracted and
unresolved litigation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The -- the $5.5 million
figure, is that the subject of litigation?
MR. SHANMUGAM: The valuation of the
Leiali'i parcel was challenged in this litigation, and
it remains pending before the trial court.
But, I think, more broadly the important
point is that to the extent that the injunction in this
case was based on the lack of resolution of underlying
claims in the State political process, the Hawaii
legislature could readily resolve those claims without
in any way casting any doubt on the validity of the
original conveyance of lands to the Federal Government.
JUSTICE BREYER: It also, I guess, has a --
there -- in the Admission Resolution, it set up a trust.
They hold it in trust, and there are five purposes in
the trust, and only one of those relates to the Native
Hawaiians. Now, I know from the newspapers -- I don't
know the merits of it -- but the trust that has been set
up is the subject of controversy continuously.
So what I don't see -- and I hope we don't
have to get into this -- is what the relation between
the trust principles as enacted in the legislature is
and the trust principles set forth in the Admissions
Resolution. Is there any law going to anything like
that?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, now -- but let me say
something about that, because you think that it is
relevant to our interpretation of the Hawaii Supreme
Court's opinion. What State of Hawaii did, with article
12, section 4 of the Hawaii Constitution, was
essentially to say that, while the State does have some
discretion to use the assets in the section 5(f)
ceded-lands trust for any of the stated purposes, the
State owes a particularly high duty to Native Hawaiians.
The Hawaii Supreme Court has so construed
article 12, section 4, in other cases involving the
ceded-lands trust. And, at page 39a of its opinion in
this case, the Hawaii Supreme Court plainly relied on
that provision as a source of its fiduciary duty, the
fiduciary duty that we believe was at issue in this
case. The opinion does not cite that provision in so
many words, but it refers to the Hawaii Constitution in
a case construing that provision.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is the court the trustee?
MR. SHANMUGAM: The State is the trustee.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The State is the trustee.
So I assume it would be up to the State officers to
decide to what extent the obligation to the Hawaiians,
among the five obligations, should be given precedence.
Is the Supreme Court of Hawaii directing the State
officers to give it precedence?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, article 12, section 4,
we would respectfully submit, Justice Scalia -- it does
place Native Hawaiians in something of a privileged
position vis-a-vis the other beneficiaries. And in
construing article 12, section 4, the Hawaii Supreme
Court was doing, albeit in a somewhat unusual context,
what courts do every day, which is essentially to
evaluate whether the trustee is acting consistent with
the trustee's obligations under the terms of the trust.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And saying that the trustee
must direct it primarily to -- to that among the five
ends.
MR. SHANMUGAM: All that the Hawaii Supreme
Court said was, in light of the very realistic prospect
that lands may be returned to Native Hawaiians as part
of the reconciliation process that Congress recognized
in the Apology Resolution, it would constitute a breach
of fiduciary duty to sell those lands for another trust
purpose, for the simple reason that once those lands are
gone, they are gone forever. And that is entirely
consistent with the general principle of trust law, that
a trustee in exercising its discretion --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And all this comes from the
fact that Congress made reference to and approved a
so-called reconciliation process?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, Congress did support
that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So in -- in perpetuam, this
land can't be transferred because Congress approved the
this reconciliation process?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Only until the claims of the
Native Hawaiians are resolved. And what is clear --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I see.
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- regardless of the degree
of the reliance on the Apology Resolution, Justice
Scalia, is that the Hawaii legislature has substantial
discretion to act and to act in a way that essentially
vacates the terms of the injunction. So if the Hawaii
legislature either says, we're going to reach a
definitive solution of the underlying claims of the
Native Hawaiians by giving them land or additional
monetary compensation, or the Hawaii Supreme Court
determines that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or denying it to them?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Or denying it to them. Then
presumably, according to the terms of the injunction, it
would no longer have any force. So the Hawaii
Legislature remains empowered to act in such a way as to
get out from under the terms of the injunction to the
extent they are restrictive.
I would note, however, parenthetically, that
immediately after this litigation was commenced the
Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources imposed
a unilateral moratorium on the sale of ceded lands.
That moratorium, as an executive matter, has remained in
effect during the 14-year pendency of this litigation
even during the considerable period between the trial
court's ruling in favor of the Petitioners and Hawaii
Supreme Court's ruling in our favor.
So there doesn't seem to be any great
impetus on the part of the State to sell the ceded
lands. Indeed, Governor Lingle, one of the Petitioners
in this case, has recently and repeatedly made
statements to the effect that the State has no intention
to sell ceded lands.
And if that is really the State's position
-- and I would be very interested in my friend's,
General Bennett's, views on the matter, then it would
seem that there really is no case or controversy before
this Court at all. Because if the State has no
intention to sell ceded lands and the sale of ceded
lands was the instigating event for this litigation,
there would not necessarily be any real dispute between
the parties.
I -- I want to say just, you know, one more
word --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the decision of
the Hawaii Supreme Court would then be vacated.
MR. SHANMUGAM: The petition would be
dismissed under Munnsingwear.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under Munnsingwear.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what is --
MR. SHANMUGAM: If there is, in fact,
mootness. And if there were -- if the State -- if the
State had not intention to sell ceded lands, presumably
the underlying dispute would be moot.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't quite understand.
You mean -- you mean a Federal court can enjoin the sale
of my house, and there is nothing I can do about it
inasmuch as I do not have any present intention of
selling my house --
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, if --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- except to live under
that injunction.
MR. SHANMUGAM: If a Federal court enjoins
you from selling your house without any underlying legal
authority for doing so, presumably that injunction would
be invalid. But the critical point here --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you say there is no
controversy, so I -- I cannot get its validity
adjudicated, right?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, here the lawsuit was
commenced by Respondents, because Respondents believed
that the State was going to imminently sell the Leiali'i
parcel. That was the triggering event for this
litigation.
It now appears at -- at least possible that
the State has no intention to sell even that parcel. If
that was true --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think that -- I
don't think that the State has to have an immediate
intention to sell any particular piece of land in order
to object to an injunction against any sale of land by
the State in the future. I -- I don't think it has to
wait until it -- it wants to sell a particular plot.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, it just -- it merely
suggests that the -- that there is no longer an
underlying dispute, Justice Scalia. Because, again --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But there is. The State
says that I am free to sell the land, and -- and the
Court says, no, you are not. Isn't that a dispute?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I -- I think that
there is -- you know, that there was a case or
controversy as this case came to the Court in the
Article III sense precisely because there was a dispute
between the parties about --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your whole case rests on a
cloud on the title in favor of your clients. But you --
you ignore the cloud on the title that has been entered
against the State.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, first of all, our
whole theory has never been that there is a cloud on the
title. To be sure, we have maintained at various points
in this litigation that Native Hawaiians do have
potentially valid legal claims, as well as moral and
political claims, to the underlying land.
But we have never argued that the injunction
in this case should be based on some assessment of the
existence or validity of legal claims. To the contrary,
we have consistently taken the position -- and this is
clear from our briefs in support of the Hawaii Supreme
Court -- that any such underlying claims would be
nonjusticiable.
And for that reason all we were seeking was
an injunction to protect these lands until those claims
could be resolved through the political process. That
was all we were conceding below, and the Hawaii
Legislature again could readily resolve those underlying
claims without in any way casting doubt on the validity
of the Newlands Resolution or any other Federal
enactment that purports to recognize absolute title --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can I --
MR. SHANMUGAM: -- to ceded lands.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can I go back to your --
your suggestion that this is a moot case because the
government -- because the -- the governor agrees with
your position. But wasn't a lot of money already sunk
into developing this area of Maui for desperately needed
housing?
MR. SHANMUGAM: A lot of money was sunk into
this parcel, at least according to the record below.
And the State would remain free at a minimum to proceed
with the development by simply entering into long-term
leases instead of the sale of these parcels of land.
Indeed, that appears to be some suggestion that that is
what the State would do in the event that this Court
does not vacate the injunction.
And so -- and, indeed, in the State of
Hawaii it is not uncommon for land to be transferred by
means of such long-term leases. So it isn't as if the
State would be barred from engaging in any development
whatsoever. The terms of the injunction simply prohibit
the sale of these lands.
And, again, the State's executive has been
operating under an effective moratorium on the sale of
ceded lands of its own volition during the pendency of
this litigation, which suggests at a minimum, regardless
of the jurisdictional implications, that there is no
great burden on the State from this injunction, which,
again, by its terms lasts only as long as the State
legislature acts.
And I would add one additional point on that
score, which is that to the extent that we believe that
the Hawaii Supreme Court's decision rested on a
fiduciary duty under State law, the State would, of
course, be free to amend its constitution in order to
make clear that the State's fiduciary duty to Native
Hawaiians does not run to the extent of requiring this
injunction. But this -- there has been no effort to do
that, and I would submit, as a political matter, it
would be highly unlikely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Shanmugam, you -- you
didn't raise in -- in your opposition to the petition
the -- the question of mootness.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, the governor's
statements about the lack of an intention to sell ceded
lands were only made literally in the days before we
filed our brief. We do refer to them in a footnote in
our merits brief, and I think that that would be
sufficient to preserve the issue.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you don't have to
preserve it. I mean it's -- it's an issue of Article
III jurisdiction, so we would have to look into it on
our -- on our own. But it does suggest that it is not a
very strong string to your bow, if I may put it that
way.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I would submit that
even if the Court does not believe that this rises to
the level of jurisdictional import, that it is at least
significant in assessing the substantiality of the
burden on the State. That the State through its highest
representative appears to be suggesting that the State
has no present need to alienate any of these lands.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Shanmugam, just
as a matter of curiosity, do you know what percentage of
the Hawaiian population is comprised of Native
Hawaiians?
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think the most recent
figures from the 2000 census are that there are
something like 1.2 million people in the State of
Hawaii. And of that number something like 240,000
identify themselves as Native Hawaiians in the way that
that phrase is currently defined under State law.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General Bennett, you have a minute remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. MARK J. BENNETT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. BENNETT: Thank you, Your Honor.
It is undisputed that Respondents asserted a
property-interest claim. That any property-interest
claim is, in fact, inconsistent with Federal law. That
the State has perfect title to these lands, and that
there is no possible reason why this Court should not
disabuse the State court of the incorrect notion that
the State lacks perfect title.
On the mootness issue, the ASARCO versus
Kadish case makes clear that the injunction that has
been entered is a present injury. But, in addition, the
governor, who does not control all of the State lands --
there are a variety of independent agencies that do --
talked about sale but not transfer or exchange, which
are other things that are forbidden by this court's --
the State court's -- injunction. But ASARCO clearly
sets out that we have an injury.
But, again, what -- the basis of the State
court's decision is a property-right interest. It is
now undisputed by counsel that such a property-right
interest is absolutely inconsistent with Federal law,
and there is no reason why in this 14-year-old
litigation this Court should not make clear the simple
and indisputed fact that, pursuant to the Newlands
Resolution, the Organic Act and the Admission Act, that
the State has perfect title.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, general.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:10 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled mattered was submitted.)
56:9 admission 4:15 20:10 21:7 10:12 18:18 based 10:11
18:25 15:3 17:1,9,13 antecedent 27:12 30:14 22:1,19,20,22
23:24 17:22 18:1 19:16 43:7 55:3 22:22 37:12
52:2 19:18 36:13 apologized 41:7 arisen 43:8 43:10 44:7
Admissions 5:25 10:11,12,19 45:3,10 46:1,5 55:22
44:22 15:24 16:4 aside 11:9 12:10 3:8 18:19
41:23 adversaries 14:9 26:5,6,10,19 22:17 believe 6:5 8:14
9:12 Affairs 1:7 3:5 28:24 29:2,8 55:6 16:7,11 28:7
15:4 affirm 14:19 29:15,16,18 assessing 54:11 31:9 43:9
affirmative 30:3 31:2,8,12 assessment 45:14 53:9
19:15,16 27:18 31:3 33:7,9,17 34:6 51:14 54:9
22:21 34:25 34:12,18,20,24 assets 16:24 believed 17:23
afforded 37:19 35:1,4,18 36:9 45:6 28:8 34:11
24:5,7 agencies 55:17 36:20 37:25 Assistant 1:18 50:4
35:21 agree 9:17 14:9 38:17 39:12 assume 18:6 belongs 30:21
39:13 26:3,21 31:4,6 40:2,12,18 24:13 39:4 beneficial 31:22
47:12 34:23 35:1 41:3,22 43:11 45:21 beneficiaries
56:4 agrees 52:7 46:17 47:10 assuming 5:3 22:2,20 24:6
AL 1:3,7 appear 10:7 atmosphere 46:4
Alito 11:8,12 appendix 7:18 authority 6:7,9 8:14,23,24
23:19 24:2 application 19:14 23:15 12:20 13:23
53:8 alter 3:12 appropriate a.m 1:14 3:2 15:18 16:3,22
32:12 amicus 1:20 2:6 approved 46:24 17:23 18:4,11
47:4 B 18:14 19:12
case 3:4 4:9 5:9 27:9,10,11,15 29:9 30:25 conclusively
14:5 19:9 34:1 36:12,19 47:7 51:17 condition 17:24
38:13 39:7 43:5 49:2,6,8 clearly 9:18 13:1 confirmed 3:25
cases 14:3 45:10 Circuit 11:22 51:4,5,8 congressional
21:17 caveat 33:24 10:2 13:3,15 commanded 48:7
46:17 12:23 26:11 20:3,6 22:24 commenced 19:14 21:25
16:13 33:3 34:13,25 30:5 32:17,21 common 11:22 21:23 22:21
36:25 48:4,11 35:2,25 55:7,8 compelled 29:15 24:10
35:1,7 48:15,21,21 claimants 22:23 29:24 30:16 consistency
49:11 52:4 claims 3:14 4:1 compensation 35:21
44:12 53:2,22 5:15 6:20 41:2 47:17 consistent 12:19
53:24,25 ceding 3:23 15:10,10,11,12 4:1 6:20 22:23 consistently
6:4,10 10:11 22:19 24:12 comply 21:15 constitution
cession 3:24 4:4 39:21,23 41:5 concede 33:6,6 construed 45:9
32:7 33:2,17 curiosity 54:16 determines draft 33:25
34:11 35:19 40:10 developing 52:9 dreadful 40:22
37:16,19,25 28:1 54:24 52:14,22 30:3
41:11,20,21 D 3:1 29:14,24 duty 4:19 12:4
48:19 45:18,24 46:6 days 53:23 31:8 28:19,24 29:4
46:14 47:17 deal 7:14 13:12 difference 9:1 31:3,20,20,21
44:11 49:21 50:22,25 decide 4:24 differences 25:5 36:10,24 37:10
54:9 55:10,11 deciding 14:14 difficulty 7:3 42:21 43:2
53:12 28:8 29:6 31:2 53:10 55:23 disabusing 14:5 effect 5:23 6:3
4:4 5:2,4 45:3 48:8,9 20:22 discrete 43:5,7 10:18 24:19,22
6:5,16 53:10 55:19,20 deems 20:25 discretion 16:23 26:20 38:6
55:23 defined 24:4 21:18 45:6 39:15 41:1
create 28:3,4 54:24 46:22 47:12 48:6,14
10:2,4 34:24 42:8,14 definitive 47:15 discusses 29:8 effective 53:1
11:6 created 27:18 degree 47:9 dismissed 49:5 effectively 20:17
12:14,15 34:12,18 39:17 democracy 21:3 dispose 4:22 effects 9:14
13:4,7,7 creates 38:17 denying 47:19 disposing 16:23 effort 53:15
14:3,6 creating 31:3 47:20 disposition either 7:5 11:4
34:7 36:10,24 Department 11:20 35:6 14:7 26:17
16:10 38:1 1:19 48:3 dispute 48:23 33:18 47:14
19:6,7 creation 42:10 depend 36:17 49:12 50:19,22 eliminate 39:5
20:12,17 critical 14:10,16 depends 23:12 51:1 embraced 10:17
21:3,8 29:6 32:25 deserve 18:9 disrespect 29:22 emphasize 30:6
23:2 36:18 49:24 desperately 52:9 distinguishable empowered
25:6 critically 41:11 detail 19:20 40:17 47:23
26:4,15 Crown 3:17 determination distribution enact 22:14
crutch 30:24 5:5 24:3 38:5 enacted 22:22
36:5 determinations document 15:11 44:21
curiae 1:21 2:7 4:3 doing 9:6 20:9 enactment 52:2
18:20 determine 22:10 46:6 49:23 enactments 3:13
exchange 25:18 13:16 14:6 46:11 16:25 26:7,22
exclusive 17:5 18:12,24 19:1 flat 32:11 31:1 35:17
48:5 52:25 24:1 27:18 footnote 53:24 43:17,25 52:3
explain 29:12 31:4,7,17 32:2 Ford 40:21 give 12:3 15:25
expressed 35:11 35:17,23 36:5 forecloses 16:6 22:23 28:23
55:15 41:10 41:7 42:7,18 formulate 21:9 23:15 45:23
42:3 extent 28:20 52:1 55:8,25 forth 44:22 31:22
46:20 33:16 37:24 fee 3:23 18:25 found 5:13 30:8 giving 17:14,15
44:6 45:22 feel 17:18 35:16 free 21:8 22:19 go 25:25 42:5
extinguished 4:2 27:22 28:3,4,9 freely 33:2 36:8 going 4:2,25
12:18 extrinsic 24:11 29:3 31:20,20 function 20:21 44:23 47:14
31:22 32:18,19 34:12 functions 14:3 50:5
F 36:21,24 37:11 further 22:12 good 17:15
19:11 figures 54:20 G Government's
41:23 far-reaching final 4:4 GEN 1:16 2:3 governor 48:12
46:7 10:14 find 27:3 40:5 2:11 3:7 55:3 52:7 55:16
fastening 30:15 finding 32:8 general 1:16,19 governor's
federal 6:19 7:9 42:24 51:7 48:18 55:2 19:20 48:10
46:13 47:11,13 14:18,23 16:3 inasmuch 28:22 insulates 9:2
42:15 48:8 49:3 17:20 18:12,14 included 6:6 intelligent 6:11
51:17,23 52:20 55:5 10:5 16:8 intended 37:16
9:9,18 3:5 5:2,4,5 49:22 inconsistent 50:9,13 53:22
16:13 5:3 40:6 55:8,25 31:23,25 32:9
18:8,10 20:2 illegal 11:3 23:4 indication 25:18 9:12 28:7 45:2
22:1,13,19 23:6 41:7 indisputable interpreting
6:16 23:22 24:4,8 illegality 23:9,10 14:1,2 16:11 42:6
7:1,5,7,17 24:12,14,21 immediate indisputed 56:3 interwoven 8:4
8:12 25:2 27:1,23 50:12 inequity 23:23 invalid 15:21
9:2,4,7,24 27:25 29:10 immediately inferred 10:14 49:24
12:13,15 30:21 31:16,22 26:8 48:2 informing 41:12 involvement
14:11,17 32:9,20,21 imminently 50:5 inject 32:24 41:8
15:25 38:2 41:24 impermissible injunction 7:20 involving 45:10
18:25 43:12,14 44:16 24:16 11:4 12:14,25 issue 6:6 9:10
45:8,22 46:3 impetus 48:11 20:12,15 26:24 13:24 19:5
21:4 23:7 46:15 47:7,16 implication 3:13 32:16,17 37:3 27:16 28:9
24:18,19 51:10 53:14 implications 37:4 38:5,11 30:10 32:12
27:17,21 54:18,23 53:4 39:6 43:9 44:6 34:5,11 38:11
Hawaii's 3:12 implicit 9:13 47:13,21,24 39:9 40:11
16:11 import 54:10 49:20,23 50:14 45:14 54:1,3
hear 3:3 41:25 important 35:16 51:13,21 52:18 55:13
held 27:21 41:20 44:5 52:23 53:5,15 issues 11:10
32:6 high 45:8 impose 11:15 55:14,20 32:15,23
33:2 34:5 highest 54:12 27:4 injunctive 7:20
35:13 highly 53:17 imposed 5:7 injury 55:15,21 J
36:4,9 hold 5:12 12:2 48:3 insofar 33:21 J 1:16 2:3,11 3:7
37:16,19 44:14 imposing 23:20 instance 39:23 55:3
38:3 Honolulu 1:16 impossible instant 32:17 Japanese 40:19
41:6 Honor 4:8,21 29:19 instigating Jay 1:18 2:5
42:19 5:9 6:4,17 7:17 imprudent 48:22 18:17,18,22
44:8 8:14 9:17 13:18 instrument 19:3 19:8 20:10,23
10:22 11:18 inappropriate insufficient 21:6,14 22:5
46:5 12:13,20 13:23 36:15 14:22 22:10 23:14
25:8 26:3 49:2,6,8,13,19 7:23 8:2 10:3 42:10,14,25 literally 53:23
27:9,10 49:25 50:11,19 11:1,5,15,16 43:1,10,21 litigation 43:24
54:4 56:6 21:19 22:11 laws 18:24 19:6 56:2
54:10 K 27:22,25 32:3 lawsuit 50:3 live 49:19
4:5,16 5:1 Kadish 55:14 34:13,25 36:25 leases 52:15,21 locking 20:18
6:13 7:3 KANNON 1:22 44:11 46:15,18 leaves 38:4,5 long 53:6
8:22,24 2:8 27:12 46:19 48:4,12 left 11:9,11 longer 47:22
11:8,12 Kennedy 4:16 48:15,21,22 13:12 30:19 50:18
12:16 5:1 10:9 31:6 49:11 51:21 legal 5:11 8:6 long-term 52:14
14:8,20 31:10 51:3 52:4,24 53:2 12:18 20:15,20 52:21
kind 12:7 13:14 53:23 54:14 24:25 25:21 look 30:7 54:4
17:10 13:15 55:9,16 39:21,23 49:22 looking 5:22
Kingdom 3:18 landscape 5:11 51:11,15 looks 29:5
11:2 41:6 language 26:14 legally 20:19 lot 16:19 52:8,11
19:4,24 know 8:12,24 29:13 38:14 33:18
12:17 13:6,10 large 8:25,25 legislation 9:15 M
13:17,19 15:9 lasts 53:6 12:3 28:23 M 1:18 2:5
25:19,22,24 late 6:20 30:15 41:2 18:18
40:9 44:16,17 law 4:17,23 5:16 43:18 maintained 51:9
25:9 48:25 50:24 6:19,23,24,25 legislative 23:12 making 15:10
26:4,7 54:16 8:3,4,5,5,11 legislature 5:5 25:3
27:9,10 9:3,5,6,8 11:14 11:13 16:14,22 manage 4:22
28:2 L 11:22 12:7,8,8 16:25 17:3,7 management
lack 44:7 53:22 12:12,16 13:12 17:13,23 18:6 11:20
30:3,11 lacked 11:1 13:16 14:6 20:25 22:4,7,8 managing 16:23
lacks 10:25 15:3 16:6,14 22:10,14 35:14 MARK 1:16 2:3
32:2,15 55:12 18:12 19:25 44:9,21 47:11 2:11 3:7 55:3
land 4:10 17:25 20:9 21:9,13 47:14,23 51:24 matter 1:12 6:22
35:1,7 20:7,7 21:1,5 21:15,23 23:2 53:7 11:5 20:5 21:8
22:23,25 23:20 23:9 24:1 Leiali'i 44:3 29:21 31:4
36:3,8 24:19 25:3,10 27:23 28:3,4 50:5 32:8 33:4
37:7 27:19 32:21 28:10,10,11,12 Let's 18:6 41:25 43:21
38:8 33:19,20 35:6 28:20,25 29:3 level 54:10 48:5,18 53:16
38:6 42:16 30:5,6,9,16,19 light 16:20 54:16
43:3 47:4,16 30:20,24 31:4 46:14 mattered 56:9
48:3 50:13,14 31:14,17,19 limit 10:22 Maui 52:9
42:4 50:21 51:12 32:2,8,12 33:5 limitations mean 15:18 30:5
43:5 52:15,20 33:22 35:18,25 21:16 33:24 34:16
lands 3:12,14,17 36:14,22 37:4 line 39:4 38:16 49:14,14
45:18,20 3:18,20,23 4:7 37:10,11,13,17 Lingle 48:12 54:3
4:19,23,24 38:12 39:9,17 link 29:18 means 24:24
5:12,19 6:22 40:4,5 41:12 lists 17:2 52:21
39:20 45:8 46:3,15 20:15 21:1,10 56:4 pendency 48:6
44:17 47:7,16 51:10 25:9 27:4,7,19 original 30:7 53:2
53:13 54:17,23 28:3,5 31:4 42:21 44:11 pending 26:12
48:3 40:13 42:8,11 ought 32:12 people 9:4 24:20
10:5 20:14,20 obligations outset 30:7 40:18,24 54:21
need 54:14 officers 45:21,25 owner 4:18,20 perfect 4:13,14
55:13 24:20 41:17,18 19:22 23:6 55:9,12 56:5
21:1,4 51:13 P period 6:15 20:8
46:19
51:11 new 4:18 ongoing 42:2 P 3:1 20:18 48:7
22:15 4:11 5:25 6:25 53:1 7:18,21 11:25 20:12,14
48:4,5 15:3 19:21 operative 41:8 12:20 26:10,24 permissible 24:8
25:15 35:21 opine 34:9 28:21 45:11 24:9
52:1 56:3 15:8 28:8 29:2 parcel 44:3 50:6 perpetuity 5:12
32:13 33:15 parcels 52:15 12:1,21 49:4
39:4,4
15:1 note 48:1 opponents 4:6 48:11 48:8,12 55:4
17:5,7 noted 20:25 opportunity particular 21:22 phrase 54:24
18:7 notion 9:6 35:23 37:20 23:16 40:3 picture 6:2
20:1 55:11 opposed 5:4 42:15 50:13,16 35:18
notions 14:6 opposition 8:17 particularly piece 9:15 30:15
24:4,8 number 12:2 53:19 45:8 50:13
54:22 oral 1:12 2:2 3:7 parties 48:24 place 8:2 37:16
46:3 precedence 13:15,16 30:13 protect 34:13 53:20
precisely 32:20 probably 32:12 provide 14:13 19:5
27:15 predicate 6:10 36:11 37:1 45:13,15,17 R
14:8 present 24:5 37:12 prudent 10:4,10 raise 53:19
25:7,11 49:16 54:14 proceeds 17:4 10:17,17 ratified 3:25
32:25 55:15 17:25 43:15 public 3:12 reach 15:5 35:19
39:7,22 presentation process 11:17 pull 13:13 47:14
49:24 22:18 28:1 30:18 purports 52:2 reached 35:20
presented 5:23 35:12 36:3 purpose 17:2 read 12:19 13:9
11:20 43:6 51:22 17:2 19:2 readily 44:9
28:1 presents 10:13 prohibit 52:23 21:19 23:16 51:24
36:3 preservation 8:2 promote 11:17 33:1 40:9 reading 11:25
51:12,22 preserve 34:13 22:12 23:21 44:14 45:7 26:8
54:1,3 pronouncing pursuant 56:3 real 48:23
40:21 properly 9:11 54:6 15:24 26:15
pressed 8:20 property 4:10 puzzled 26:15 35:15 36:4
15:15 presumably 6:23,24,25 Q realm 9:8
38:22 8:19 38:20,24 7:20 10:2 question 3:17 reason 5:7 11:3
48:16 39:12 40:8 12:15,17 17:4 4:6,12 5:2,22 15:4 35:15
52:8 47:21 49:11,23 17:4 31:15,25 5:24 6:1,5,6,7 36:7 40:23
pretty 16:17 property-inte... 9:16,19 10:5 55:10 56:1
primarily 46:11 15:2 20:3 19:11,17 21:13 18:15 55:3
46:21 proposition 4:6 31:7 35:16 recognition
52:2 23:9 30:9 28:25 29:2,9 results 5:14 31:8 22:3,5 25:3,6
31:21 relying 9:1 29:9 30:4 31:3,8,12 revenue 43:21 42:23,24,25
remain 52:13 33:7,9,18 34:6 43:23 46:10
24:23 18:15 35:2,4,14,18 review 27:8 33:1 11:22 14:15
26:12 remained 48:5 35:22 36:10,13 39:22 42:20 15:11 20:6
41:10 remaining 55:2 36:21 37:5,25 right 3:12 4:10 26:10,25 47:14
46:16,25 remains 44:4 38:17 39:13 4:22,24 5:18 50:21,22
47:23 40:2,12,17 10:2,20 12:10 Scalia 17:10,12
14:5 28:7 41:22 43:8,11 25:23 26:17 18:5,13 20:21
repeat 29:13 resolve 44:9 12:15,17,18,18 38:25 39:1
repeated 8:8,13 resolved 33:18 rise 12:3 28:24 46:10,23 47:3
54:13 respectfully 18:16 19:4 scope 27:7
required 25:22 5:10,17 6:21 39:10,25 42:4 22:20 24:15
45:2 5:14,16,24 6:1 50:4,4 55:6 ruling 10:22 44:19 47:8
47:10 7:13 8:1,9,10 30:5 32:17 run 11:21 42:17 32:23 51:20
28:2 11:8 12:3,6,11 responsibility 27:19 34:25
31:19 12:24 13:8,21 36:21 S 36:25 46:18
36:9,15 14:10,12,16,21 rest 12:6,7 35:24 S 2:1 3:1 48:11,15,21
15:3,7,8,23 rested 8:8 53:10 sale 27:22 33:20 49:11 50:5,9
41:12 16:4,9 19:17 resting 33:22 48:4,21 49:14 50:13,16,21
19:19,21 24:23 restrictive 47:25 50:14 52:15,24 53:22
22:6 27:24 28:13,23 35:19 16:14 20:13 39:23 51:1
44:13,17 43:10 23:15,15,17,18 48:16 52:25 suggesting
Solicitor 1:18 23:25 24:3,10 53:13 54:13
2:8 27:11 sort 29:20,25 29:3 30:5,6,20 statute 12:5 53:3
28:6 sorted 35:24 32:6,8 33:5,22 43:20 sunk 52:8,11
sound 24:24 34:19 35:25 statutes 7:9 support 13:8
30:2,25 source 28:9,14 36:22 37:4,10 statutory 9:5 35:12 41:9,11
32:1 28:18 30:9 37:12,17 38:12 step 20:11 47:1 51:17
33:9,12 32:16,16 37:10 39:9,17 40:2,5 steps 20:10 supported 41:16
34:3,23 39:8,11 40:13 41:12 42:10,14 Stevens 4:5 supporting 1:21
36:2 45:13 43:10,21 44:8 21:12,14 22:3 2:7 18:21
Souter 7:3 11:24 45:3,5,8,19,20 22:6,8 23:11 suppose 42:6
38:7,10 12:16 13:5 45:21,24 48:11 23:14 Supremacy
39:3 24:17 25:9,17 48:14,20 49:10 stick 6:1 13:22 42:17
40:8,15 26:4 28:21 49:11 50:5,9 stops 16:21 supreme 1:1,13
42:12 sovereign 6:7,9 50:12,15,20 string 54:6 5:2,4,13,18
43:4,13 6:12 9:20,21 51:6 52:13,17 stripped 9:20 6:16,18 7:4,7
44:2 10:6 16:9,12 52:19,22 53:5 16:9 7:18,22,25
45:19 19:13,15 53:6,11,11 strong 54:6 8:12,18 9:7
47:1,6 so-called 46:25 54:12,12,13,21 subject 9:8 10:7 10:20 11:25
49:4,7 speak 33:12 54:24 55:9,11 43:23 44:1,18 12:14,15 13:4
41:4 55:12,16,20,22 submit 9:21 13:7,11 14:11
speaking 33:19 56:5 46:2 53:16 14:17,24 19:6
52:4,11 special 4:19 5:6 stated 5:4 40:22 54:8 19:10 20:12,17
54:8 specifically 5:13 45:7 submitted 56:7 20:22 21:3,8
10:15 statement 12:19 56:9 23:2 24:18,18
26:5,7 standards 8:6 States 1:1,13,20 47:11 29:6,7,18,22
35:9 state 4:14,16,22 4:13 9:23,24 54:11 31:7,11,14,18
4:23 5:7,11 6:7 11:1 18:19 substantive 6:3 31:21 32:7
46:19 9:8,24 10:25 26:12 40:18,20 26:20 41:1 34:11 35:19
11:4 12:3,7,11 40:22 succeeded 9:24 36:5,9,14
28:12 16:5 18:25 state's 6:9 7:23 sufficient 6:14 38:3,3 39:6,8
52:14,23 19:10,15 20:4 9:20,21 10:6 42:7 54:1 39:19 41:11,21
19:4,8,11 21:2 47:4 52:20 52:20 33:8 51:11
47:17 21:14 22:7 transfers 20:8 underlying validity 16:5,6
49:3 24:2,16 25:15 23:20 25:3,10 32:21,22 33:3 23:12 25:1,2
53:10 25:24 27:6 treat 22:16 33:13 34:8,10 25:14 42:21
11:9 30:20 32:25 treated 20:19 40:13 41:5 51:15,25
25:20 33:23,25 34:3 treating 29:20 44:7 47:15 valuation 44:2
32:18 34:4 36:2,4,18 29:25 49:12,22 50:19 variety 55:17
36:23,25 37:1 trial 44:4 48:7 51:12,18,24 various 7:9 29:1
40:9 triggering 50:6 7:7,10,11 17:1 51:9
30:7 50:11,12,15,23 41:25 50:10 undoubtedly 27:19
53:25 54:19 truly 30:20 41:25 views 48:18
25:24 thought 14:11 19:1,3 21:9,11 2:6 3:21,24,25 virtually 10:24
three-sentence 23:8,10 24:6,9 18:19 19:23 volition 53:2
40:22 tied 24:19 33:19 43:22 26:12 40:18,20 W
47:13,21 time 3:15 18:15 44:13,14,15,17 40:22 wade 13:19
52:23 20:8,19 25:10 44:21,22 45:7 wading 26:1,16
times 8:8,13 45:11 46:9,18 wait 50:16
13:2,3
41:24
title 4:1,13,14 trustee 4:19 unresolved 17:3,14 18:7
55:1,5 6:20 7:23 9:23 21:10,18 23:3 29:11 43:2448:25
9:25 11:1,2,15 24:15 27:8 wanted 17:1
18:25 19:7 46:8,10,22 13:4 15:25 42:14
51:8 24:25 25:15 trustee's 46:9 22:25 36:5War 40:19
15:14 34:7 39:15,16 two 20:10 32:14 1:19,22
38:4 40:2,4,7 42:22 type 42:10,15 V wasn't 14:16
55:9,12 56:5 U vacate 28:6 39:5 way 6:9 22:11
10:12 told 39:25 ultimately 12:8 vacated 49:3 33:20 36:20
14:21 transfer 3:12 unambiguously vacates 47:13 40:3,17 41:16
16:18,19 11:16 55:18 43:9 valid 15:9,12,12 44:10 47:12,23
18:8 transferred uncertain 40:21 15:17,20 16:16 51:25 54:7,23
23:24 32:4,5 uncommon 20:19 24:12 weak 36:6
46:1,5
141A 23:5
18 2:7 6:20
18:18 1959 4:14,15
49:1 2000 54:20
45:16 240,000 54:22
3
38:18 34a 30:9
36a 30:9
45:11
30:10 45:4,10
11:3 5
21:20 22:20
21:16
55 2:12
1:5 3:4
69a 7:18
54:21
43:20 8
1:14 3:2 85A 26:10,24
56:8 85-A 12:20
