IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MICHAEL A. KNOWLES, :
WARDEN, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-1315
ALEXANDRE MIRZAYANCE. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 13, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:01 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
STEVEN E. MERCER, ESQ., Deputy Attorney General, Los
Angeles, Cal.; on behalf of the Petitioner.
CHARLES M. SEVILLA, ESQ., San Diego, Cal.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
STEVEN E. MERCER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
CHARLES M. SEVILLA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
STEVEN E. MERCER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:01 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument this afternoon in Case 07-1315, Knowles v.
Mirzayance.
Mr. Mercer.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN E. MERCER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MERCER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Under the deferential review required by the
ADPA, Mr. Mirzayance was not entitled to Federal habeas
corpus relief on his ineffective counsel claim because
the State court adjudication of that claim was not
contrary to, nor an unreasonable application of, the
clearly established Strickland test. And because the
Strickland rule is a general one, the California Supreme
Court had wide latitude in resolving that claim.
In this case, the Ninth Circuit applied
something different from Strickland, finding that Wager
was duty-bound to present a State law affirmative
defense because no other defenses were said to be
available at that time and because it merely might have
worked. But even the Ninth Circuit conceded that this
Court has never announced such a test. And as in --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: At some point during the
oral argument, and perhaps at the beginning because it
is the beginning inquiry: When there is an evidentiary
hearing, how does the standard for the court of appeals
differ than when there has been no evidentiary hearing?
MR. MERCER: Well, I think it depends on
whether the Federal habeas court is doing a section
2254(d) analysis. The fact is that section 2254(d), for
example, doesn't speak to denying a claim on the merits,
even if it's unexhausted. So, in theory, a Federal
habeas court could perhaps accept new evidence that the
State court never had before it in order to deny relief.
But we cannot envision a situation where it would ever
be efficacious to hold a hearing in light of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, let me put it --
MR. MERCER: -- a --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me put it this way:
We're the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, let's
assume. What effect do we give to what the district
court did, and how would that -- how would the case be
different than if we were simply reviewing the same
situation and it came from the State court? What's the
difference?
MR. MERCER: Well, there shouldn't be a
difference.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We just pretend the
hearing didn't happen?
MR. MERCER: Well, I would say that in
virtually every case it, in fact, is a meaningless
distraction from what the State court did based on the
record presented it, and here's why. Because if the
State court made a reasonable adjudication of the merits
of the claim based on the State court record, then even
holding a hearing wouldn't make any difference because
relief would still be precluded under 2254(d).
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do we look to the Federal
court evidentiary hearing as part of the analysis to
determine whether what the State court did was
reasonable? And you -- and you have -- you have thought
about this, and obviously the problem is, since the
California appellate courts didn't see the hearing, this
is an artificial exercise, and you know the problem.
MR. MERCER: Well, I think, again, the only
question that matters is the 2254(d) question that says
that relief shall not be granted unless that State court
adjudication based on the State court record presented
was unreasonable, and here is why.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I guess it could be
-- it could be if we have an opinion that makes it clear
that you -- you must grant an evidentiary hearing in --
in certain cases. And if the State court did not grant
an evidentiary hearing, I guess you could say that that
was contrary to established Supreme Court law, couldn't
you?
MR. MERCER: Perhaps, and -- and under
extremely rare cases that may --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But unless -- unless there
is a Supreme Court requirement that there be an
evidentiary hearing, I don't see how holding an
evidentiary hearing could show that the State court
decision, which was legitimately held without an
evidentiary hearing, was contrary to our opinions. I
don't see how you can do that.
MR. MERCER: Well, I agree, Justice Scalia,
and this Court said in Holland v. Jackson that the
pertinent question is what the State court had in front
of it. And the reason here is simple: That it is
unfair to find that the State courts made an
unreasonable application of law based on facts that they
didn't have. So --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did at any point -- did
the State at any point challenge the correctness, the
propriety, of holding the Federal evidentiary hearing?
MR. MERCER: Yes, Justice Kennedy. Mr.
Mirzayance raised --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And if so, is that before
us?
MR. MERCER: I don't think so. We -- we
disagreed that there should have been an evidentiary
hearing in the first place, and we argued that below.
It's our position that there should not have been an
evidentiary hearing in the first place.
It's our position that, frankly, this was a
straightforward, routine Strickland case that was
uncomplicated, properly adjudicated by the district
court when they first reached it in 2001 without a
hearing, and that the Ninth Circuit has come at this
matter with a -- a chestful of monkey wrenches in the
sense that they should not have ordered the evidentiary
hearing in the first place, and then when they did, they
should not have disregarded the very factfinding that
they ordered be done.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- so then -- so then
we do look at the facts. I don't want to take up your
or the Court's time on this any more, but I remain
puzzled, I have to tell you, about what to do with this
hearing. I went through it at great length. It's very
careful factfinding, really.
MR. MERCER: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I -- I just don't know
how to fit that with the standard when I look at the --
the reasonableness of the -- of the State court
decision.
MR. MERCER: Well, I don't think it changed
the standard because 2254 simply requires an
adjudication on the merits, and we have that here.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, would you -- would
you agree just as a general rule that unless we find --
unless there is some rule under which we can conclude
that the State court should have held a hearing, that
there is no occasion to have a Federal evidentiary
hearing?
MR. MERCER: Yes, I would agree with that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That would be the general
proposition.
MR. MERCER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. MERCER: And I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would that -- would
that principle have to be clearly established by one of
our decisions?
MR. MERCER: I think that question is
unclear, Mr. Chief Justice, because this Court did
recently say in Landrigan that the decision to hold an
evidentiary hearing remains within the sound discretion
of the district court, but in the same sentence said
that that discretion was circumscribed by the ADPA.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why should we hold a
hearing ourselves in the -- in the hypothetical
situation that Justice Souter mentioned? Why shouldn't
we just reverse the State courts for not having held an
evidentiary hearing? Remand it to them, let them hold
it, and let -- let them make the factual determination
on the basis of that, after which we would -- we would
apply the rather strict 2254 standard to -- to the
result of that hearing?
MR. MERCER: Well, if a petitioner or a
State prisoner was somehow precluded from developing
facts in the State court and should have had an
evidentiary hearing under this Court's clearly
established law, then that would be the correct
solution.
Here, however, we have a fully developed
State court record.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I understand that. So
your -- your answer to Justice Souter would -- would not
be that -- that you can conduct a hearing if the State
should have conducted a hearing? What you should do if
the State should have conducted a hearing is send it
back for the hearing.
MR. MERCER: That is correct. The point
here under the ADPA -- and I think it is Congress's
clear intent -- is that all of these claims are to be
funneled through the State courts first. And Congress
has entrusted the State courts to be the primary and
first interpreters and enforcers of Federal
constitutional law for State prisoners' claims. And as
this Court has said many times, including in Sawyer v.
Smith, they're co-equals to the Federal courts in doing
so.
So what should have happened in this case we
contend is what the district court first did when
confronted with the claim in 2001. And that is you
assess the facts and claims as presented to the State
court and then decide whether it would be reasonable to
reject the claim under either prong of Strickland. And
as this Court said in Strickland itself, the easiest and
most direct way to answer that question is through the
prejudice prong here.
We have to remember the reality of this case
that for an affirmative defense of insanity, or NGI
under California law, Attorney Wager bore the burden of
proving by a preponderance of the evidence that his
client did not know the difference between right and
wrong when he committed this crime.
And every bit of Mirzayance's own deeds and
words show that he did. Before the killing itself, he
closed the curtains and waited until he was alone with
the victim before entering her room with a gun in his
pocket and the silent weapon drawn. He struck with the
silent weapon, delivering fatal blows, resorting to the
gun only when she screamed and struggled, and then
immediately collected the shell casings, turned off the
lights, collected the knife, went back to his apartment
where he showered, disposed of the bloody clothes,
concocted a false alibi message on the machine -- excuse
me -- and then, overcome with guilt at the wrongfulness
of his conduct, he calls his friend and says: "I messed
up big-time." And that's at page 120 of the State
reporter's transcript.
And then, further acknowledging both the
legal and moral wrongfulness of his actions, he turns
himself in to the police. He says: "I did a murder."
When they asked him how he felt about it, he said: "I
felt very guilty, very bad for what I've done. That's
why I turned myself in."
JUSTICE SOUTER: Was -- was -- is all of
this factual material in the -- in the documents
submitted with the habeas, with the State habeas and the
response to the State habeas?
MR. MERCER: All of this was in the State
trial transcript, so, yes, Justice Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What -- what did they do?
Did they submit the trial transcript with the -- in --
with the response to the habeas petition at the State?
In other words, how did it get in front of the State
court, is all I want to know.
MR. MERCER: It was a direct appeal to the
California Court of Appeals with a concurrently filed
habeas petition.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Ah, okay.
MR. MERCER: Yes, okay.
So he was faced with that. And then on the
flip side, there was not a shred of evidence that Mr.
Mirzayance ever thought that doing what he did was
legally or morally right. So given all that, given the
extensive effort to cover his tracks and his own
admissions about the wrongfulness of his conduct, it was
not reasonably probable under Strickland for this jury
to believe that he somehow did not know.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about getting another
jury? That was -- one of the reasons that counsel gave
why he, counsel, was withdrawing the NGI plea was the
jury had just found -- rejected the second-degree murder
charge and found that he had acted deliberately with
premeditation. But couldn't -- because the first jury
had -- in the guilt phase, couldn't the attorney have
requested a brand new jury to hear the NGI plea?
MR. MERCER: Mr. Wager did not believe that
he had grounds to do so in this case. And the district
court first addressed that opinion at the petition
appendix H in a footnote -- I believe it was footnote
21, but I don't have that in front of me right now --
where the district court talked about the standards for
getting a new jury and that under Penal Code, California
Penal Code 1026, you had to show some cause to the trial
court why this jury could not fairly address the claim.
Wager felt that he had no basis to do that at this time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Mercer -- Mr. Mercer, I
guess we could resolve the case by saying if there was
any error it was harmless, but we didn't take the case
for that. That wouldn't be very helpful to the bar,
would it? I mean, I thought that the important issue
here is -- is the one you've been discussing, whether --
whether, in fact, you're bound to stick with the facts
that were -- were adjudicated by the State.
MR. MERCER: I agree with you, Justice
Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So let's not do that, then.
Let's -- let's decide something.
MR. MERCER: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Good.
MR. MERCER: Well, I'm confident that, you
know, as this Court addressed in Strickland itself, the
claim fails for lack of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if -- if the
Profitt -- the Fifth Circuit -- Profitt, the Fifth
Circuit case, applies in the Ninth, Ninth Circuit, and I
would think it would, just as the magistrate judge
thought that it would, then that would be -- present a
very close case and it would probably require reversal
of the State court, wouldn't you think, if the Profitt
rule applied? What is it, the "all or" -- not "all or
nothing" --
MR. MERCER: "Nothing to lose."
JUSTICE KENNEDY: "Nothing to lose."
MR. MERCER: Well, if -- we agree that
nothing to lose, in fact, was what happened here, as in
Profitt. The dissent recognized it, the District Court
recognized it, and I think you're right that this case
smacks of application of something like a "nothing to
lose" type rule. And perhaps it's announced in Profitt,
but it surely has not been clearly established by this
Court in any decision, and that pre-AEDPA Profitt
decision from the Fifth Circuit certainly did not compel
the California court or any other State court to apply a
"nothing to lose" rule on Strickland performance.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, isn't that --
the fundamental question is what level of generality you
look to determine what law has been clearly established?
Certainly Strickland is clearly established.
MR. MERCER: Certainly.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But as far as I can
tell, the "nothing to lose" issue has not been addressed
by us and is not clearly established. So why do we look
at it at the latter level of generality as opposed to
the former?
MR. MERCER: Well, certainly this Court
could indeed take a more narrow view of what is clearly
established law. We agree that Strickland here covers
the vast majority of ineffectiveness cases. But
certainly, this Court has never squarely addressed such
an issue before, and certainly, this Court has never
announced that test to bind the States to resolve this
claim.
I think that the fallback position is,
absent a clear answer from this Court, as stated in Van
Patten, absent a clear answer, the State courts are left
with a very general Strickland principle, and as this
Court stated in Yarborough v. Alvarado, the more general
the rule, the more leeway the States have in deciding
cases on a case-by-case basis.
So certainly we feel that Wager's decision
was patently reasonable under a traditional Strickland
analysis. We're not asking for anything different.
Now --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think -- I
guess it's not open to us to issue a decision on the
"nothing to lose" question or we don't have to. It's
the only -- the way we have to decide the case is to
determine whether the Ninth Circuit's determination on
the "nothing to lose" question was clearly established
by one of our cases.
MR. MERCER: That's correct, Mr. Chief
Justice. And I think this comes back to our original
point, that the only dispositive question here that
really matters is where -- when the State court
adjudicates --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask you this
question. Supposing we were convinced, and I'm not
suggesting we should be on the record, but supposing we
were convinced that only the dumbest, untrained lawyer
in the world could have failed to advance this defense,
and that therefore I would have no doubt about it as an
original proposition that he was incompetent under
Strickland -- under the general Strickland standard.
Would we be permitted to say that in the case, or would
we have to say, well, this particular kind of attorney
error has never been addressed before, and therefore, we
can't look at it?
MR. MERCER: Well, I think that because this
Court has never even addressed conduct anything like
this by an attorney --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But isn't it true that
there's a whole host of counsel errors that could
violate Strickland? But do you have to find one that we
have addressed before before a Federal court can apply
and say Strickland was violated?
MR. MERCER: I don't think you need one on
all fours, exact fact patterns. That would be
unworkable. What you do need to do is give the courts a
clear answer to the question, and generally --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would it be -- wouldn't it
be a clear answer in this case to say this was a
terrible lawyer, and therefore Strickland -- Strickland
applies? Or could you say, we don't care how bad the
lawyer was, Strickland -- we haven't adjudicated this
precise set of facts before, so that's the end of the
ball game?
MR. MERCER: This Court could say you
haven't adjudicated this --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is that what you're asking
us to do?
MR. MERCER: We're not asking you to say
that a decision like this could never be unreasonable.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Oh, okay.
MR. MERCER: Okay? We're asking that this
Court continue its Strickland jurisprudence that says
the Constitution makes one general requirement and, as
stated in Roe v. Flores-Ortega, that requirement is that
counsel make reasonable choices.
So certainly, there could be a situation
where counsel flipped a coin or made an arbitrary
decision or made an unreasonable decision --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why is it, then -- if we
say that and if Profitt is inconsistent with that, do we
then remand or do we say on this record clearly it was
reasonable? Obviously you want us to do the latter, I
take it?
MR. MERCER: Well, I don't frankly think
this case necessarily should be remanded back to the
Ninth Circuit. They've had it three times already. But
I think that the writ needs to be denied under a
traditional Strickland analysis, and --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Don't we have to go --
don't we have to say that this was reasonable?
MR. MERCER: No. I think what this Court
simply needs to say is that it was not objectively
unreasonable --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Of course.
MR. MERCER: -- for the California courts to
come out the other way.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't understand
why you keep talking about Strickland. We sent this
case back to the Ninth Circuit for further consideration
in light of Carey v. Musladin. In that case we said
that the grant of relief was unreasonable because of the
lack of holdings from this Court regarding the
potentially prejudicial effect of spectators' courtroom
conduct of the kind involved here, which seems to me a
much narrower focus on the level of generality than
Strickland.
I would have thought you would have said --
maybe you are saying -- that because we don't have a
precedent from this Court rejecting the "nothing to
lose" case, that that should be the end of it.
MR. MERCER: Well, I did not make such an
aggressive argument to this Court that a decision like
this could never be unreasonable, but certainly there is
no case from this Court that has announced such a
standard. So --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. The issue is
not whether it's unreasonable or not. The issue is
whether it's an unreasonable application of -- of
clearly established Supreme Court law.
MR. MERCER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Reasonableness or
unreasonableness is out of the question. You -- you
first just have to look to Supreme Court law and say, is
it conceivably an unreasonable application of that. And
the -- and the answer to that is we -- we haven't
decided the question of whether this is reasonable or
unreasonable, and therefore, it cannot possibly be an
unreasonable application of Supreme Court law.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's his argument, not
the one you've been making.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right. That seems
to me --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You say the standard is
Strickland.
MR. MERCER: Well, what I say is that this
Court has held that Strickland generally applies to
almost all ineffective counsel cases. And certainly
this Court has stated it applies in specific type issues
of conduct. For example, counsel has a duty to conduct
a reasonable investigation; counsel has a duty to
consult his client about filing an appeal. But Justice
Scalia is absolutely right, this Court has never said
anything remotely like the rule applied by the Ninth
Circuit here.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, they didn't. But
what we're going to discover, I suspect, when we
actually dig into this record, which is pretty
extensive, are two things. The first is the California
Court of Appeals does not seem to have dealt with the
particular issue in front of us. They talked about a
due process issue at the end of their paragraph, they
have talked about things that are close to it, but they
nowhere say expressly how they are deciding the question
of whether there was ineffective assistance of counsel
for the reason that he didn't put on this insanity
defense. That's going to be our first problem.
Then I looked to see, I got the record out
to see, if he raised it, and he didn't. So we have the
fact that they didn't talk about it, and then we have
the fact that of course the Supreme Court of California
says just one word, "Denied."
Then when we discover round two in the Ninth
Circuit, we are going to discover some language which
says: We are not relying on this rule, there is no such
rule, as a rule of you have to make a defense as a last
resort. Here's what they say. Instead of that we say,
forget about that, we were wrong the first time, we
assume. "Where the State court has provided an
adjudication on the merits, that is, it did say denied,
but has not explained its underlying reasoning or held
an evidentiary hearing, we conduct an independent review
of the record to determine the State court's final
resolution of the case, whether it was reasonable or
unreasonable."
So they say: We did conduct that record
independent review. And our conclusion is that it was
unreasonable, okay? Nothing to do with any special rule
here or anything. We just think it was unreasonable.
All right; now, what are we supposed to do
with this?
MR. MERCER: I think this Court needs to
give full deference to the adjudication of the State
courts.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is that deference
going to be? I take it what it would be is that the
person, the defendant, would have in his petition --
which we don't actually have -- would have said the
facts are thus and so, and since they had no hearing,
they would have to take those facts as being thus and
so.
MR. MERCER: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: And then we would have to
say, was it unreasonable of them on the facts as they
might have taken them most favorable to the defendant.
Is that what we're supposed to do? Is it unreasonable
of them to conclude for the State's favor in light of
reading these facts as most possible favorable for the
defendant? Is that what we should do?
MR. MERCER: Correct, yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. MERCER: And that's the situation and
the circumstance outlined by the California Supreme
Court in People v. Duvall, and it's a case and a
procedure designed for judicial economy --
JUSTICE BREYER: Then we have to reach this
hearing issue because we have to say, insofar as the
hearing reached a different result, we should ignore it
for the reason that the statute tells us to consider the
reasonableness of the State court's decision in light of
the facts on the record before it.
MR. MERCER: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: So we have to reach a huge
number of issues which we've never decided.
MR. MERCER: I actually think that that
issue is not really properly before this Court.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then how are we
supposed to do it? That's why I raised it.
MR. MERCER: Based on the State court
adjudication, a straightforward analysis under 2254(d)
of the California Supreme Court's legal resolution of
this claim.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We should treat the
district court proceeding as though it had never
happened on the ground that the Ninth Circuit never
should have remanded it to the district court, and we
just take it as though we had a 2254 petition from the
State supreme court in the district court. And then the
district court doesn't conduct any hearing; it just
applies the standard. So that the whole thing about
clearly erroneous at the district court, that -- that
should be out of the case.
MR. MERCER: That is our primary contention,
yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then if we get to that
point, I think your argument is as follows. I'm not
sure. I want you to tell me.
If the State court adjudication was -- was
contrary to what Justice Stevens' hypo suggested might
be the "total fool" rule, in other words no one but a
complete nincompoop would have failed to -- to press
forward with this defense, then we can decide the case
simply under Strickland, because Strickland
unreasonableness is certainly going to cover the total
fool case.
But if we have something less egregious than
the total fool case, then we've got to look for more
precise Supreme Court precedent, and that's what gets us
into the Musladin or Musladin rule.
MR. MERCER: Correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And if we get to the
Musladin sort of level of generality, we do not have any
determination from this Court, any clearly established
law from this Court, that would indicate that the State
court's adjudication or determination was unreasonable
here.
MR. MERCER: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is that your road map?
MR. MERCER: Yes, it is.
And if there are no further questions, I
would like to reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Sevilla.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES M. SEVILLA
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. SEVILLA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I would like to begin by addressing the
so-called "nothing to lose" rule, which is a fiction
attributed to Profitt v. Waldron, which -- it does not
say that in Profitt v. Waldron. It's a fiction
attributed to the Ninth Circuit, because the Ninth
Circuit not only did not say that; they rejected the
idea that they were relying on a "nothing to lose" rule.
The Ninth Circuit applied -- well, I might also add that
in a case called Lowery v. Lewis, which is cited at the
Petitioner's appendix for cert 94, the Ninth Circuit
specifically and in no uncertain terms said it rejected
a "nothing to lose" rule.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you reject it as
well, I take it --
MR. SEVILLA: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS -- and concede it is
an improper -- it is not a basis for ineffective
assistance that somebody did not pursue a "nothing to
lose" case argument?
MR. SEVILLA: It -- essentially, because
it's an irrelevant concern because the decision has to
be made on whether counsel's decision, as he faced the
trial facts, was objectively reasonable.
Now, in that calculus if there is nothing to
lose by going forward, if there is a great benefit to
achieve by going forward, if he's got a credible
defense, as it was determined by the district court at
the evidentiary hearing on insanity, then it's
objectively unreasonable on the morning of trial on the
way to court, to, out of a sense of despair or
hopelessness, subjectively speaking, to decide that:
I'm going to jettison this defense that's been prepared
over the year. There was --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well I -- I don't
under -- I didn't follow that answer. You're saying if
he does have nothing to lose, it is objectively
unreasonable for him not to go ahead with it?
MR. SEVILLA: I'm saying that's one of the
factors. I'm not saying that's the sole factor,
because, as the case that I cited, Lowery, there was a
motion to suppress which attorneys were making in this
case. They all lost, and his -- the client in that case
argued, well, there was nothing to lose in presenting
this motion to suppress, and the Ninth Circuit said:
That's not the rule; it's under the circumstances
whether the performance is objectively unreasonable, so
we need to take into consideration the compete --
competing factors.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So we have to look
at this counsel's performance under Strickland, I guess,
and determine whether it was objectively unreasonable in
light of Strickland filtered through Yarborough?
MR. SEVILLA: Correct. And in -- in that
regard, the State has argued --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that precisely what we
have to decide? Or wouldn't it be whether it would be
unreasonable for the State court not to come to that
conclusion, which is one step removed?
MR. SEVILLA: It would be one step removed
were it not for the fact that there was an evidentiary
hearing which resolved facts that should have been
resolved in the State court. Appellant filed a separate
petition in the court of appeal in California, filed the
same petition in the California Supreme Court, asked --
first argued up front that this was unreasonable
performance under Strickland, and then said if the court
disagrees, then it ought to be remanded to a referee for
fact development.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so the usual test
that the State court has to be affirmed unless it's
unreasonable application of Supreme Court law is altered
when the State court has not had an evidentiary hearing
that the Federal habeas court believes should have been
held?
MR. SEVILLA: And holds it. But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do you get that out of
the statute? I don't understand it; it makes no --
MR. SEVILLA: Well, there's a hole in the
statute, there's no question about it, under 2254(d)(1).
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. SEVILLA: When you have the -- the
statute requiring the application of, or nonapplication
of law contrary to the United States Supreme Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. SEVILLA: -- or an unreasonable
application thereof, what happens when that issue really
cannot be decided without an evidentiary hearing under
Strickland?
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but you're saying --
the need for the evidentiary hearing, as I understand
it, was raised by you in the following way. You said to
the California Supreme Court: There is on the face of
the papers filed here a violation of Strickland and a --
or a misapplication of Strickland in -- in the way the
California trial court came out; but if you do not find
a facial violation of Strickland based on these papers,
then you should remand for an evidentiary hearing. And
it doesn't seem to me that that follows at all.
If there's no Strickland error, that seems
to me a -- a -- an odd premise to say you ought to
remand for a hearing. Aren't you under an obligation to
specify factual issues that -- specifically that need to
be developed, before you would make out a case for
saying they were in error in not holding the evidentiary
hearing?
MR. SEVILLA: Well, we argued that because
Mr. Wager, defense counsel, presented a declaration
which was contradicted by other declarations as to the
reason he gave up this defense, we argued it was
objectively unreasonable if the court -- the State court
took all of the intendants in favor of our declaration
and Mr. Wager did not really address the reasons for
giving up the defense, he just said, I felt it was
hopeless.
It took the evidentiary hearing to determine
why he felt it was hopeless. So we argued that on the
face of it it is Strickland error. If the court
disagrees, then we're entitled to an evidentiary hearing
to determine --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you're saying that you
specified the evidentiary issues that you wanted to
develop?
MR. SEVILLA: What we specified is why his
rationale was unreasonable.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, with that, I'm just
asking you --
MR. SEVILLA: And we --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm asking you -- I'm
throwing you a softball.
MR. SEVILLA: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Are you saying that that
was, in effect, an adequate way to tell the California
Supreme Court that these are the issues that we want to
develop in an evidentiary hearing that aren't
sufficiently developed in the documents? Is that your
position?
MR. SEVILLA: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: But there is no hole in the
statute. What it says to do, quite explicitly, is it
says that you have to see whether the State court
decision was unreasonable in light of the evidence
presented in the State court. So it tells us what to
do. It says, look at the evidence in the State court,
and like any other instance where there is no hearing,
every day of the week, judges refuse to give a hearing.
Now, when they do that, they have to assume the facts in
favor of the losing party. So the question is, assuming
the facts in favor of your client, was the decision that
he loses unreasonable?
MR. SEVILLA: We argued yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And you said yes. Is there
any finding on that in the Federal court? No.
MR. SEVILLA: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, that's --
that's why I don't know how to proceed because it seems
to me to decide that question just as I said it. When I
said it, I don't think what I said is clear in the law
of this statute. There are two sides to it. We just
had a case where there were many briefs on this
question. So I'm slightly uncertain what to do.
MR. SEVILLA: Was that Bell v. Kelly?
JUSTICE BREYER: That's a good one.
MR. SEVILLA: I think it was, and the Court
dismissed as improvidently granted, and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. What do you
rely on for the proposition that if -- if you deny a
hearing, all of the facts for which the hearing was
demanded have to be assumed in favor of the party who
asked for the hearing?
MR. SEVILLA: That's California law.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the law of the
Federal Government, I would have thought.
MR. SEVILLA: That is --
JUSTICE BREYER: It's summary judgment law.
MR. SEVILLA: In order to deny relief, one
has to -- the court has to presume the adequacy of the
showing, or the truth of the showing made by the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but that can't be.
What if I deny the hearing because there are ample facts
that show what the situation was, and a hearing would in
my view be absolutely redundant? And therefore all of
the facts that support the other side have to be washed
out simply because I've denied a hearing?
MR. SEVILLA: No. We're not making any
claim that there has to be a hearing in every Federal
case when there is an argument that could be deemed on
its face cumulative evidence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wasn't addressing that.
I was addressing the proposition that when you deny a
hearing, all of the facts for which you demanded the
hearing have to be assumed in your favor. I -- it seems
to be --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's my fault. I'm
referring by shorthand to a Rule 56 summary judgment
type standard. All those facts are assumed on your side
in which they're material, and there has to be in the
evidence a reasonable basis for dispute.
MR. SEVILLA: I --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's my mistaken refusal
to -- I should have said Rule 56.
MR. SEVILLA: Well, it's -- it also is
California law, and I believe it is habeas corpus law,
that when the petitioner files a petition and attaches
declarations, in order to deny those, assuming that the
truth of those declarations is presumed in order to
evaluate the prima facie case -- for example, in this
case, in Strickland, that if that can't be resolved
without a hearing, the hearing should be held. And the
court of appeal on the first go-around held exactly
that. The court said there are competing reasons here
why the defense counsel waived this defense on the
morning --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, talking
about -- in Strickland -- right here. In Strickland, we
said that if a decision by counsel is made upon, quote,
"thorough investigation," it is, quote, "virtually
unchallengeable." Now, which of these facts in the
Petitioner's brief is wrong: That Wager retained eight
expert doctors to evaluate Mirzayance's mental health;
he retained jury consultants; he conducted a mock trial
in which he presented mental health defenses to two
juries; he hired a private investigator to interview
friends and associates; he consulted with Mirzayance's
parents and their attorneys; he discussed the case with
a retained expert doctor after decision and his
co-counsel?
Now, that sounds like pretty thorough
investigation of the defense you say he should have
raised.
MR. SEVILLA: Well, there are a couple of
problems with -- all of that is true. I might quibble
with one, but what -- Mr. Wager was operating under a
fundamental misunderstanding of California law. All of
that was ready to go, to present. He had a great not-
guilty-by-reason-of-insanity case supported by lay
testimony, childhood history, and these psychiatric
opinions of very formidable experts. But he had a
fundamental error that was only revealed at the
evidentiary hearing in the understanding of California
law. He said -- and he said this six times at the
evidentiary hearing -- he said that when a jury has
found the defendant has maturely and meaningfully
deliberated, that that means they found the equivalent
of wrongfulness. That is absolutely wrong. He was
quoting from a statute that was repealed in 1982, when
California had a major revision of its statutes and
moved mental health concepts --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So all the points
that your friend began with, which shows his conscious
deliberation, his knowledge not only about how to go
about killing somebody, but also guilt, the recognition
of the wrongfulness of what he had done -- all that
under California law doesn't enter into a consideration
of insanity?
MR. SEVILLA: Surely it enters into the
consideration, and every one of the experts considered
precisely that evidence, which was for the most part
after-the-fact evidence. And as the State's doctor --
and, again, this came out at the evidentiary hearing
because it's certainly not discovered in the State
doctor's report that was submitted. The State doctor,
Dr. Anderson, stated at the trial in Federal court that,
yes, he was aware of the consciousness-of-guilt evidence
that came about mostly after the event, but that did not
speak to his intent, his mental state at the time of the
offense. And he stated, which was a great surprise in
the Federal evidentiary hearing, that he believed Mr.
Mirzayance was, because of the psychosis, feeling that
he was justified --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand that,
but counsel here at the time retained eight expert
doctors to evaluate his mental health. He conducted the
mock jury trial. He interviewed the parents. He hired
an investigator to interview friends. What you're
saying is, well, here's -- if he had hired a ninth
expert, he might have come out differently. That sounds
like a thorough investigation under Strickland.
MR. SEVILLA: It was a thorough
investigation. But this case -- this Court has said, in
Terry Williams, counsel has a duty to investigate and
proffer mitigation evidence in a capital case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So isn't that --
aren't you back to the "nothing to lose" argument? He
conducted this investigation, which under Strickland we
said makes the decision virtually unchallengeable, and
you're saying, well, he has an obligation to proffer it.
MR. SEVILLA: He had an obligation to
proffer it because he was operating on a fundamental
misunderstanding of California law.
JUSTICE ALITO: You say that repeatedly, but
what is there to show that he misunderstood, that he
misunderstood California law, as opposed to making a
practical calculation about how juries would look at
this evidence, having found -- having heard the evidence
of premeditation and having found premeditation, even
though that doesn't decide the NGI issue, as a matter of
law. As a practical matter, it makes it quite unlikely
that they're going to accept the NGI defense. Where --
and you say that repeatedly.
MR. SEVILLA: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Where in the record does it
show that he misunderstood the law, as opposed to making
a practical evaluation of what the jury was likely to
do?
MR. SEVILLA: Well, I will -- I could rattle
off page numbers from where he said that the jury
finding of premeditation and deliberation was the
functional equivalent of a finding of sanity. That is
absolutely not true. Here's the quote --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: He didn't use the word
"functional equivalent" in the portions I read. Maybe
you can correct me if I'm wrong about that.
MR. SEVILLA: He did not say "the functional
equivalent." He said --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And he told the trial
judge, "I've got an uphill" --
MR. SEVILLA: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- almost perpendicular.
And he had -- each and every one of those experts in
their affidavits, in their reports, had said that he
didn't have deliberation or premeditation. They were
getting ready for that. And he felt that this would be
devastating cross-examination material because the jury
had already found the opposite -- they had already
disbelieved the expert on this point.
Now, it's true, it's true, that knowledge of
wrongfulness is probably slightly more extensive than
premeditation. But based on the defense that he was
going to present -- he didn't know what he was doing at
this time -- he had a very, very difficult obstacle to
overcome.
MR. SEVILLA: Well, that -- that's a
challenge that faces every criminal defense attorney in
-- a case when you have a -- a credible defense like
this. There -- there are going to be challenges to that
by vigorous, trained prosecutors.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't there something on
the other side? You seem to present this as a case, but
counsel did a careful job, and then he lost faith. He
lost hope, and so he acted irrationally.
But wasn't there on the other side
consideration of the sentence that he was going to get,
and might not a -- a lawyer perfectly rationally think:
If I give up this defense, it is just going to waste
everybody's time. The judge is going to give me the
benefit of -- of having done that in the sentence, in
giving a lower sentence, in giving -- making the
sentences on the multiple offenses concurrent rather
than consecutive.
MR. SEVILLA: Well, if there had been a
tactical purpose such as that, that would have been an
interesting fact to add to the calculus here, but he
absolutely denied there was any benefit.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, maybe -- maybe he
did, but when we come to judge prejudice, don't we have
to judge prejudice by considering exactly what Justice
Ginsburg just said? In other words, our standard, the
-- the standard -- No. 1, the standard for Strickland
prejudice is -- is an objective -- I mean the standard
for -- for -- of -- of performance is an objective
standard. And the standard for prejudice has got to be
an objective standard, too.
And even though he said, I didn't do this
for tactical reasons, if a -- if a sound lawyer would
have entertained exactly the tactical reason that
Justice Ginsburg just outlined, isn't that crucial to
the determination of prejudice?
MR. SEVILLA: Well, it -- it may well be if
there was a --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, shouldn't that be?
MR. SEVILLA: -- if there was a possibility
that there could be any difference whatsoever at
sentencing. But he testified, well, what was going to
happen to Mr. Mirzayance if he were to -- he was going
to get 25 or 29 to life, which is exactly what happened.
So there was no --
JUSTICE SOUTER: How did he know that?
MR. SEVILLA: How did he know that? Because
if you -- he had already been convicted of first-degree
murder, which --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but the judge hadn't
sentenced him yet.
MR. SEVILLA: Correct, but under California
law there is a mandatory prison sentence for the use of
a gun, so -- and the sentence for first-degree murder is
25 to life.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you are saying the
judge had no discretion whatsoever?
MR. SEVILLA: That is correct. So,
therefore --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Twenty-five -- 25, 26, 27,
28, he has 25 years worth of discretion, doesn't he?
MR. SEVILLA: No, no. It's a minimum
mandatory 25 to life.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But couldn't he also give
life. He could also give the maximum, which was life,
couldn't he, or am I wrong?
MR. SEVILLA: He -- he could give 25 to --
the -- the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You are saying the terms of
the sentence had to be 25 to life?
MR. SEVILLA: Correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So there was no discretion
on the trial judge's part.
MR. SEVILLA: Correct. Correct. And this
-- the defense counsel said as much when answering the
question as to whether there was any possible benefit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So he's got nothing
to lose?
MR. SEVILLA: He's got nothing to lose and
something to gain. There was no benefit in taking the
-- the action that he took in waiving this defense,
which was credible. He was prepared to present it until
the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess that gets me
back to what -- what I thought the case was postured in,
which is whether or not a case from this Court clearly
establishes when you have nothing to lose, you've got to
go ahead and present the defense, or it's a violation of
Strickland. And what case is that?
MR. SEVILLA: There is no case that this
Court has so pronounced. And we are not arguing for
that standard, nor should we have to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I -- I
understood your responses to the various questions here
to, in effect, be arguing for that standard. You are
saying, look, he was going to get the same sentence
anyway. You know, all -- all your answers sound to me
like nothing to lose.
MR. SEVILLA: Well, they're all part of the
calculus of reasonable performance. Certainly, the fact
that there is nothing to lose, that he is going to get
an automatic 25-year minimum sentence, that he is -- on
the other hand, he's got a credible defense for which
there is absolutely no benefit in giving up, and -- and
then he decides for reasons --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He made a
determination -- he made a determination after a
thorough investigation of the various points I went
through with you earlier that it was not a credible
defense. Now, maybe that was reasonable or
unreasonable, but it doesn't seem to me to be -- under
Strickland we said it is virtually unchallengeable, and
it doesn't seem to me to be objectively unreasonable in
light of clearly established law from this Court.
MR. SEVILLA: Well, the -- the -- this Court
has said that errors of misunderstanding -- well, the
Court has said that failure to fact-investigate can be a
basis for objectively unreasonable performance. The
same is true with failure to legally investigate what's
the law governing your case.
And he stated on six occasions that the fact
that the jury, quote, "had already found Mirzayance
guilty of first-degree murder," and, whether they knew
it or not, under the facts of this case legally sane,
well, then, the question is: Well, how do you make that
determination? By the way, he said the equivalent of
that six times during the year.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't -- I didn't take
that to mean under California law, since the jury found
the one, it has to find the other. He wasn't making
that argument. He was saying any jury that found that
this was done intentionally, that this was done, you
know, with -- with planning, with -- with cover-up and
what not, that jury is not going to find that he was
crazy. That's all he was saying, and -- and that seems
to me entirely reasonable.
MR. SEVILLA: Well -- well, I -- that might
be the case if he did not misunderstand California law.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it's hard for me to
believe that he didn't. He -- he has tried a hundred
cases. He had moot or mock -- mock trials where he was
asking the experts these questions with the co-counsel.
And you want us to say that he didn't understand the
law? And there is no -- there is no finding to that
effect. There's no finding to that effect: That he did
not understand the law by the magistrate.
MR. SEVILLA: Well, the circuit --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: By the magistrate, there
was no finding to that effect.
MR. SEVILLA: That's correct, because the
magistrate did really not make a finding on prong one.
The -- the magistrate misapprehended the intention of
the circuit's first remand by thinking that it had
mandated a nothing-to-lose rule. And if there was
nothing to lose, it was prong one ineffectiveness, so
there was no need to make a finding. So we're left
without a finding.
But the circuit on -- on its second and
third opinion noted that his concept of premeditation
and deliberation as having mental-health concepts was
wrong because of the 1982 amendment to the statutes,
which removed many of the mental-health concepts and --
and put them over into the insanity phase. And so when
he said to the court at the hearing, Mr. Mirzayance --
after the jury found him maturely and meaningfully
deliberated, that's language that was eliminated in --
in 1982, and that is the mental-health concept.
And -- and this point is very important to
this argument. When he was arguing to the jury, he said
he can't premeditate and deliberate because he's
mentally ill. He's mentally diseased. And he was cut
off by the prosecutor and the court who gave an
instruction that said -- 853 of the trial transcript,
saying the fact that Mr. Mirzayance may have deliberated
for irrational reasons brought on by mental disease is
not a defense to this case. His reasons can be
irrational in deliberating.
And that should have tipped him off that
this jury was precluded from taking the psychiatric
testimony -- the psychological testimony of the one
witness at the guilt phase and -- and deeming that a
negation of any ability to win on a wrongfulness
standard. And -- and I might also add --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But they didn't -- they
didn't strike the experts' testimony. The experts
testified at some length, the -- the psychiatrist.
MR. SEVILLA: He did.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that was relevant to
premeditation and deliberation, and the jury did
consider what the mental health expert said.
MR. SEVILLA: They did consider what he
said, but they were precluded from channeling that into
a defense to premedication and deliberation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what about -- what do
you do with the last sentence of the supreme -- of the
California Court of Appeals' opinion? "None of the
exculpatory evidence defendant recites, including
evidence of his mental disorder, was reasonably likely
to persuade a jury that defendant did not premeditate
and deliberate the killing." And from that they
conclude that there is no reasonable probability that,
but for the errors, a different verdict would have been
reached, i.e., that it does not satisfy the second part
of Strickland.
MR. SEVILLA: And -- and you were reading
from the California Court of Appeals --
JUSTICE BREYER: I was just reading from the
California court of Appeals. Because I look at that. I
think when I go back and see what was the evidence in
front of them, I am going to find all of these -- all of
these things. Not the last part by the way, not -- not
the part about the counsel admitting he was wrong or
whatever this argument we are having. We won't find
that, but we'll find everything else there.
And so they're using that as the basis to
say there was no prejudice, and now I guess that the
Ninth Circuit and the Federal courts would have to defer
to that finding on prejudice. Now, what's your response
to that?
MR. SEVILLA: Well, the California Court of
Appeals did not have before them the evidence that came
in by way of petition, which was all of the psychiatric
opinions of the forensic psychiatrists who gave
declarations saying that Mr. Mirzayance was insane at
the time of the homicide. That is not within the court
of appeal opinion because the court of appeal opinion is
on the four corners of the record, and this was
collateral to that.
So any statement along those lines did not
encompass the most powerful evidence that was presented,
which would have been all of the psychiatric opinion
testimony about his mental state at the time of the
offense.
And then, of course, we know that at the
federal evidentiary hearing, this defense was found
credible, and one of the state doctors came over to the
defense side and testified that Mirzayance did not
understand wrongfulness at the time of the homicide
because of the psychosis. And this doctor made an
error, and its clear from the record at the evidentiary
hearing, he had an error in his understanding of the NGI
test in California. He thought if you met prong one you
understood the nature and quality of the act, you were
sane, and he never went to wrongfulness.
But when he was asked by the State at this
hearing, well, what about his ability to understand
wrongfulness, and the doctor said he didn't understand
wrongfulness.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Please correct me if I'm
wrong, but as a general rule psychiatrists don't --
don't testify as to the ultimate standard. They testify
as to the condition and -- and the symptoms of -- of the
defendant, and then the jury makes that conclusion.
MR. SEVILLA: In California in 1982, there
was a statutory amendment which prohibited forensic
experts from testifying to opinions at the guilt phase,
so that -- on legal issues like premeditation,
deliberation, so they could not, Dr. Satz could not
testify at the guilt phase on premeditation and
deliberation. At the insanity phase, they absolutely
can testify as to whether he was sane or not.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Had Wager ever
represented a defendant who pled NGI?
MR. SEVILLA: No. He testified this was his
first NGI defense.
Speaking to -- I think, Justice Kennedy, you
raised the issue about couldn't these -- in the
prejudice calculus, couldn't these psychiatrists have
been impeached with the fact that they found no
premeditation and deliberation? Well, California
statute under Penal Code section 28 prohibits their
opinion on premeditation and deliberation at the guilt
phase where the issue is premeditation and deliberation.
So, I can't understand how a court would let in their
opinions on premeditation and deliberation when there's
a totally separate issue of insanity at the insanity
phase.
It's -- if it's irrelevant or prohibited at
the guilt phase, where premeditation is the issue, it's
surely going to be irrelevant at the NGI phase, where
it's not an issue, and we have a totally different
standard. As the courts of California have said, one
can be guilty of first degree murder and be insane.
That's -- that's clear.
So, in this case, we have an attorney who,
for whatever reasons, based on a subjective sense of
hopelessness, gave up his client's only and best
defense, a defense that was found credible at the
federal evidentiary hearing. Once -- once that defense
is found credible, that bespeaks of the unreasonableness
of counsel giving it up. It's a credible defense, it's
the only defense available to him, and counsel gave it
up for no tactical benefit.
There was no upside to this. There was a
clear downside to it, because it consigned his client to
29 years to life as opposed to the possibility of
treatment in a mental hospital, and potentially, upon
the restoration of sanity, potential relief -- release
if he could prove his restoration.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Has he served his time so
far in a regular institution?
MR. SEVILLA: Yes, he has. He is in Mule
Creek State Prison just south of Stockton, California,
and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that the special -- he
made a request for a particular prison. Is that the
one?
MR. SEVILLA: I don't think so. I don't
believe -- I think at the sentencing hearing, the trial
judge did not do anything special except sentence him to
prison? Although both -- in terms of the bona fides of
his disease, both the prosecutor and the judge at the
time of the sentencing said he was clearly a mentally
diseased person. So that -- this -- this bespeaks back
to the credibility of the defense which was established
by the mental disease evidence which stemmed from
childhood.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. SEVILLA: Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Mercer, you have
four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN E. MERCER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MERCER: Just a couple of points I would
like to make briefly to clarify a couple things.
First off, there was no finding that
Attorney Wager misunderstood California law or somehow
was under the impression that a finding of first degree
murder was legally precluded a finding of NGI. He
argued at the State trial that there's no question that
an insane person can deliberate, and surely while the
jury's verdict was as devastating under the facts of
this case, he didn't close up his books and go home.
He told the trial judge, we need to reassess
this, I need to decide who I'm going to call, I need to
consult with my doctors and my co-counsel and decide
what we're going to do.
And as the district court found here, and as
Wager stated in the State court declaration, there was
no final decision made until the morning of trial when
the parents expressed a profound reluctance to assist
their son. And this was, in fact, his first NGI
defense, but as Mirzayance's family attorney stated in
his State court declaration, Attorney Wager was a
ten-year expert on mental health and sanity issues with
the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office. He had
tried more than a hundred trials. He was the expert.
He had done his homework here. He knew what he had to
present. He did not make a rash decision. He consulted
with co-counsel, and concluded reasonably under his
professional valuation that the defense could not meet
its affirmative burden of proof here.
The second thing I would like to clarify on
Justice Ginsburg's point, there was some sentencing
discretion left here. It's correct that Wager in
hindsight said, well, perhaps there was nothing to lose.
But he argued to the sentencing judge the very fact that
his client knew the wrongfulness of his actions and was
so remorseful should entitle him to a lesser sentence on
the weapons enhancement.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What discretion did the
judge have?
MR. MERCER: The -- that the -- the
sentencing judge could have imposed a high, middle or
low-term for the weapons enhancement. The underlying
sentence was 25 to life, my friend is correct, it's set
by statute. But he had discretion on sentence
enhancement, and he was convinced that Mirzayance was
remorseful, and gave him a mid-term instead of a
high-term, despite the fact.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there was also
something about the revocation? There were three
revocations involved, I thought, two years on each.
MR. MERCER: I don't believe that's correct.
I think it was a straightforward 25 years to life
sentence plus a weapons enhancement of four years added
on.
JUSTICE BREYER: You keep saying 29 years.
Is it 29 years or is that just a misprint --
MR. MERCER: It's -- the aggregate sentence
is 25 -- excuse me. The aggregate sentence is 29 years
to life. It's 25 years to life for the first degree
murder, plus four years for the weapons enhancement in
this term, a mid-term, because Wager successfully argued
that his client was remorseful.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What would he have
gotten in the high term?
MR. MERCER: I believe that it was -- I
believe that it was six years as opposed to four. It
may have been eight as opposed to four. I don't know.
That's not discussed in the State court record.
And finally, Mr. Mirzayance concedes that
"nothing to lose" would be an inappropriate new rule by
this Court. He no longer calls it that. He doesn't --
he disagrees with the dissent view on this. What he
calls it is this: This is the rule, in his own
description, at page 30 of his brief, how the Ninth
Circuit granted relief here. Excuse me, I see my time
is expired.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't you --
MR. MERCER: That the decision fairly read
states only that counsel has a duty to present
substantial viable defense where there was an objective
prospect for success and no strategic or other benefit
abandoning it. This Court has never held such a rule to
bind the states.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:02 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
advance 16:23 appeals 4:4,18 assistance 21:15 believe 12:20
affirmative 3:21 47:5,15,17 associates 35:1 44:24 51:18
55:19 affirmed 28:22 APPEARAN... 22:4 31:24 believed 36:20
33:9 36:11 appellate 5:16 assuming 31:25 benefit 27:2
38:12 aggregate 54:14 appendix 13:7 34:7 39:24 40:6
43:13 54:15 26:12 attaches 34:6 42:10,14 43:13
aggressive 19:23 application 3:15 attorney 1:16 51:2 55:13
Ah 12:11 applied 3:19 53:2,3 big-time 11:14
ALEXANDRE applies 14:8 Attorney's 53:5 bit 11:1
ALITO 37:18 apply 9:10 15:1 automatic 43:11 bona 51:20
altered 28:23 arbitrary 18:13 51:1 bore 10:22
49:14 30:8,11,18 B BREYER 21:6
15:9,17 analysis 4:8 5:12 53:16 54:18 16:15 18:21 23:16,23 24:2
16:5 18:24 arguing 42:25 19:10 37:11 31:16 32:4,7
Anderson 36:15 argument 1:13 51:23 33:21 34:2
13:21 14:22 15:19 26:21 33:14 based 5:5,8,21 briefs 32:12
18:1 19:25 37:11 44:15 6:19 24:4 brought 46:9
10:18 15:22,23 52:6 50:20 53:11
asked 11:19 16:2 26:19 C
5:7,21 8:6
24:5 answering 42:9 28:16 32:22 33:25 44:2 C 2:1 3:1
25:15 answers 43:6 49:4 47:24 Cal 1:17,18
apartment 11:9 18:4,7 31:3,5 beginning 4:2,3 37:21
43:9 50:2 case-by-case 23:13 27:25 34:13 40:9
10:22 casings 11:8 27:22 concede 26:18 Constitution
13:10 cause 13:11 cited 26:11 conceded 3:24 18:9
19:6 21:9 cert 26:12 27:17 concedes 55:1 constitutional
23:13 certain 6:1 claim 3:13,14,18 conceivably 10:7
28:15,16 certainly 14:25 4:9 5:8 10:13 20:10 consult 21:2
31:9 15:6,7,13,17 10:16 13:12 concept 45:18 52:20
34:5 15:18 16:3 14:5 15:20 46:1 consultants
18:12 19:24 24:7 33:13 concepts 35:25 34:23
37:17,20 20:23 25:4 claims 10:3,7,14 45:19,21 consulted 35:1
44:13,22 36:13 43:9 clarify 52:9 concern 26:23 53:8
challenge 6:22 53:12 conclude 8:9 contend 10:12
49:1,13 39:11 clear 5:24 10:3 23:7 47:10 contention
51:12 challenges 39:13 15:22,23 17:17 concluded 53:9 24:18
changed 8:4 17:19 32:10 conclusion continue 18:8
2:5 25:24 9:15 14:23 concurrent 40:1 6:3,12 24:24
16:7,14 19:8 25:13 42:20 conduct 9:22 16:22 54:2
7:9 10:11 28:1 34:16 27:19 32:1 20:25,25 22:7 correct 9:16
13:5,15 36:1,23 37:10 51:4 53:17 22:11 24:14 10:1 16:14
14:8,11 42:11,18 43:2 54:19 conducted 9:23 23:2,10,22
16:10 43:15 52:2,4 client's 50:21 9:24 34:23 25:10 28:5
18:21 54:20 55:9,16 close 14:11 36:25 37:12 38:15 41:11,17
childhood 35:14 21:13 52:17 confident 14:3 42:5,8,8 45:9
23:14 52:1 closed 11:3 confronted 49:8 53:14,25
25:2,5,7 choices 18:11 clothes 11:10 10:13 54:8
27:17 circuit 3:19,24 Code 13:10,11 Congress 10:4 correctness 6:22
30:5 4:18 7:12 14:7 50:5 Congress's 10:2 counsel 3:13
33:14 14:8,8,25 coin 18:13 conscious 36:2 12:22,23 17:10
35:2 18:22 19:10 collateral 48:12 consciousness... 18:11,13 20:23
37:7,9 21:5,24 24:10 collected 11:8,9 36:16 20:25 21:1,15
42:19 26:7,8,10,12 come 7:12 19:7 consecutive 40:2 25:22 30:9
27:21 45:6,17 28:9 37:4 40:8 consider 23:19 34:14,16,18
48:1 55:7 comes 16:15 46:24,25 36:24 37:8
50:19 circuit's 16:11 committed consideration 39:17 42:9
55:17,18 45:12 10:25 19:10 27:24 47:21 50:25
16:2,13 9:2 compete 27:24 considered 36:9 55:11,16
44:25 circumstance competing considering counsel's 26:24
courts 5:16 6:18 decision 6:11 deliberate 46:4 Diego 1:18
15:23 17:16 14:25 16:3,8 deliberated difference 4:23
48:18 48:1 50:16 19:23 23:20 46:8 40:25
9:15 22:8 32:1 34:18 12:25 4:21 16:5
23:20 24:6 35:3 37:13 deliberating 23:18 47:11
5:5,7,8 25:15 52:24 53:8 46:11 50:15
cover 12:17 25:4 55:10 deliberation differently 37:4
covers 15:15 decisions 8:21 36:3 38:10,24 difficult 39:8
7:11 8:2 cover-up 44:17 declaration 30:9 45:19 46:23 dig 21:8
9:1,14 co-counsel 35:4 30:13 52:23 47:2 49:17,19 direct 10:18
10:8,12 45:1 52:20 53:3 50:4,6,7,9 12:8
12:7 53:9 declarations delivering 11:6 disagreed 7:4
13:6,9,12 co-equals 10:9 30:10 34:7,8 demanded disagrees 28:19
crazy 44:19 48:8 32:21 33:18 30:20 55:4
credibility 51:24 deeds 11:1 denied 18:23 disbelieved 39:3
credible 27:3 deemed 33:14 21:22 22:5 discover 21:7,23
17:7,12 39:12 42:16 deeming 46:15 33:11 40:6 21:24
18:8 43:12,18 48:20 defendant 22:22 deny 4:12 32:19 discovered
50:22,24,25 23:5,9 35:20 33:3,7,17 34:7 36:13
20:5,9 Creek 51:12 47:6,8 49:12 denying 4:9 discretion 8:25
crime 10:25 49:22 depends 4:6 9:2 41:16,20
criminal 39:11 defense 3:22 Deputy 1:16 42:6 53:14,20
23:14 cross-examina... 10:21 16:23 description 55:6 54:1
39:1 21:17 22:1 designed 23:15 discussed 35:2
crucial 40:19 25:2 27:4,9 despair 27:7 54:25
cumulative 30:9,11,15 despite 54:4 discussing 13:19
27:4,7 33:15 34:14,14 35:6 determination disease 46:9
curtains 11:3 38:1 39:6,11 9:8 16:11 51:21,25
cut 46:5 39:12,22 42:9 25:13,15 40:20 diseased 46:5
29:10,19 42:15,22 43:12 43:16,16 44:10 51:23
30:12,12 D 43:19 46:10 determine 5:13 dismissed 32:17
31:10,18 D 3:1 47:2 48:19,21 15:5 16:11 disorder 47:7
32:5 day 31:23 49:24 50:22,22 22:8 28:3 disposed 11:10
33:4 dealt 21:10 50:23,25 51:1 30:17,21 dispositive
36:15 decide 10:15 51:24 53:2,10 determined 27:4 16:16
42:20,25 13:25 16:10 55:12 devastating 39:1 dispute 33:25
44:1 25:2 27:8 28:8 defenses 3:22 52:16 disregarded
46:6 32:9 37:24 34:24 develop 30:24 7:16
52:19,20 defer 48:1 31:11 dissent 14:19
50:8 decided 20:12 deference 22:18 developed 9:18 55:4
53:3 23:24 29:14 22:20 30:5 31:12 distraction 5:5
55:3,14 decides 43:14 deferential 3:11 developing 9:13 district 4:19
21:14 52:12 54:16 28:20 13:5,9 14:19
enhancement 51:25 facial 29:23 32:5,25 33:13
27:4 53:19,24 54:2 evidentiary 4:3 facie 34:9 36:15,20 48:1
53:5 54:10,17 4:5 5:12,25 6:2 fact 4:8 5:4 48:19 50:23
48:23 entering 11:4 7:4,7,14 8:11 17:15 21:20,21 feeling 36:21
enters 36:8 8:25 9:7,15 28:12,20 40:5 felt 11:19,20
48:20 40:18 28:12,24 29:14 50:3 53:1,16 38:25
entirely 44:20 29:17,24 30:6 54:4 fiction 26:4,6
31:12 30:20 36:12,20 48:19 factor 27:16 filed 12:9 28:14
39:7 envision 4:13 exact 17:15 facts 6:19 7:19 files 34:6
55:11 errors 17:10 20:2 32:18 34:20 44:8 47:22,23
ESQ 1:16,18 2:3 exercise 5:17 factual 9:8 32:5 38:10,11
52:6 15:10,15 16:12 36:9 38:22 failure 44:1,3 13:6 20:9 21:9
43:4 45:4 evaluate 34:9,22 explicitly 31:17 false 11:11 53:1 54:16
36:25 expressed 52:25 family 53:2 first-degree
54:24 evidence 4:11 31:25 32:1,21 Flores-Ortega
33:25 36:10,11 33:15 federal 3:12 4:7 follow 27:12
37:22 47:6,7 26:24 8:11 10:6,9 follows 24:21
25:12 13:15 16:8 33:18,19 34:11 11:8
13:10 38:25 36:4 46:15 50:23 51:18 imposed 53:23
24:8 39:15 50:13 9:6 20:22 22:6 52:12
37:22 51:14 54:5 44:7 50:17 55:14 improvidently
39:2 Ginsburg's guilty-by-reas...helpful 13:17 32:17
53:13 35:13 high 53:23 54:21 inappropriate
48:19 give 4:19 17:16 gun 11:4,7 41:13 high-term 54:4 55:2
22:18 31:23 hindsight 53:15 including 10:8
39:22,23 41:23 H hired 34:25 37:1 47:6
given 12:16,16 habeas 3:12 4:7 history 35:14 16:25
50:25 28:25 34:5 holding 5:9 6:9 independent
53:25 35:12 36:3 happen 5:2 41:2 holdings 19:13 indicate 25:14
52:17 14:18 24:10 hole 29:5 31:16 20:23 21:15
21:11 22:21 25:4 happens 29:13 home 52:17 ineffectiveness
47:19 27:2,3,9 38:1 hard 44:23 homework 53:7 15:16 45:14
47:19 50:14 46:24 53:4 hope 39:18 insanity 10:21
35:11,16 good 14:2 32:15 heard 37:22 30:18 36:7 45:22
gotten 54:21 hearing 4:4,5,14 hopelessness 49:19 50:10,10
25:20 32:25 7:5,7,12,15,22 host 17:10 institution 51:10
8:8,14 great 7:22 27:2 29:14,17,24 I intentionally
17:1 35:12 36:19 30:3,7,17,20 idea 26:9 44:16
33:22 41:9,15,19,23 9:16 10:7,22 37:21 43:5
juries 34:25 43:2,15 44:12 20:14 25:14 looked 21:18
jurisprudence 46:18,22 47:3 32:10,23,24 lose 14:15,16,18
jury 12:19,22,24 49:25 51:9,14 35:11,18 36:6 16:9,12 19:21
34:19 34:23 35:19 53:20 54:5,12 38:5 41:12 27:2,13,20
37:5,7,12 37:1 38:6,9 54:20 55:9,16 43:23 44:4,13 37:11 42:12,13
39:1 44:6,13 justified 36:22 44:22 45:3,5 42:21 43:7,10
37:2 46:3,13,23 K lawyer 16:22 55:2
jury's 52:16 Kelly 32:14 40:17 losing 31:25
4:15,17 5:1,11 4:17 5:1,11 leeway 16:1 39:18
6:24 7:1,18,25 7:25 14:6,16 53:14 Lowery 26:11
8:23 9:3,5,20 38:13,18,21 49:16 low-term 53:24
16:8 12:2,3,11,21 45:7 46:18,22 44:3,8 52:13 M
21:11 13:14,22,24 49:8,25 51:9 legitimately M 1:18 2:5
23:17 14:2,6,16 15:3 killing 11:2 36:4 6:11 25:24
29:13 15:8 16:7,15 47:9 length 7:22 machine 11:11
50:1,7 16:19 17:9,18 kind 17:3 19:15 46:20 magistrate 14:9
18:2,6,15,25 knew 44:7 53:7 lesser 53:18 45:5,7,10,11
30:4,23 20:15,17,19 knife 11:9 13:25,25 majority 15:16
49:16 21:2,6 22:20 know 5:17 7:25 level 15:4,11 making 20:16
23:3,11,16,23 10:24 12:7,20 19:16 25:12 27:18 33:12
41:5,6 43:6 life 41:3,14,22 39:25 44:14
40:8,9 32:24 33:2,6 L lights 11:9 matter 1:12 7:13
51:19 33:16,21 34:2 lack 14:5 19:13 lines 48:13 37:24,25 55:19
52:18 34:16 36:1,23 Landrigan 8:24 longer 55:3 matters 5:19
37:10,18 38:4 language 21:24 look 5:11 7:19 16:17
mid-term 54:3 25:9,9,12 O 16:25
44:13 43:11 N 2:1,1 3:1 40:13,15 55:12 outlined 23:13
45:24 Mirzayance 1:7 narrower 19:16 26:25 27:6,13 overcome 11:12
36:18,25 48:8,21 54:2 27:24 29:17 37:14,15 page 2:2 11:14
47:7 55:1 30:4 45:15 obstacle 39:8 38:9 55:6
51:6,25 Mirzayance's 52:18,19,19 obviously 5:15 papers 29:20,23
11:1 34:22 needs 18:23 19:3 18:18 paragraph
misapplication negation 46:16 occasions 44:5 parents 35:2
46:1 misapprehend... 15:17,18 17:4 offense 36:19 part 5:12 36:10
3:6,7,9 4:6 mistaken 34:2 23:24 24:9,10 Office 53:5 particular 17:3
5:3,18 misunderstand 49:3 55:14 Oh 18:6 21:11 51:15
7:3 44:22 new 4:11 13:3 okay 8:17 12:11 party 31:25
8:4,13,16 misunderstan... 13:10 55:2 12:12 14:1 32:21
9:12 35:11 37:17 NGI 10:21 12:23 18:6,7 22:13 patently 16:4
12:1,8,12 43:25 13:3 37:24 31:15 Patten 15:23
misunderstood 38:1 48:25 once 50:23,23 patterns 17:15
37:19,20 38:5 49:22,24 50:14 open 16:8 Penal 13:10,11
16:14 52:11 52:13 53:1 operating 35:10 50:5
mitigation 37:9 nincompoop 37:16 People 23:14
19:2 mock 34:23 37:1 25:1 opinion 5:24 perfectly 39:21
20:6 44:25,25 ninth 3:19,24 13:6 45:18 performance
22:17 monkey 7:13 4:18 7:12 14:8 47:5 48:10,10 15:2 27:23
moot 44:25 14:8 16:11 48:15 50:6 28:2,18 40:13
24:4,18 moral 11:17 18:22 19:10 opinions 6:12 43:9 44:2
morally 12:16 21:4,23 24:10 35:15 48:7 permitted 17:2
53:22 morning 27:6 26:7,7,10,12 49:15 50:9 perpendicular
34:15 52:24 27:21 37:3 opposed 15:11 38:21
motion 27:18,21 48:1 55:6 37:20 38:5 person 22:22
22:5 multiple 40:1 noted 45:18 oral 1:12 2:2 3:7 pertinent 6:16
3:8 9:12 47:1 52:13 prisoner 9:13 48:6,15 rattle 38:8
52:7 prejudice 10:19 prisoners 10:7 psychiatrist reach 23:16,23
34:21 40:20 47:25 probability psychiatrists 23:18 47:12
46:15 prejudicial probable 12:19 psychological 55:10
19:14 probably 14:11 46:14 reading 23:8
premedication 39:5 psychosis 36:21 47:14,16
13:1 37:23,23 proceed 32:8 21:16 45:22 16:17 24:1
10:1 premise 30:2 proffer 37:9,14 Q 30:11 40:18
24:21 prepared 27:9 37:16 quality 49:2 reasonable 5:7
46:2 42:16 Profitt 14:7,7,12 question 5:19,19 5:14 10:15
preponderance 14:19,22,24 6:16 8:22 16:4 18:11,18
52:8 present 3:21 profound 52:25 16:9,12,16,20 21:1 22:9
31:13 55:11 prong 10:16,19 42:10 44:9 reasonableness
10:14 30:9 pronounced questions 25:20 reasonably
48:14 proof 53:11 quibble 35:9 53:9
51:6 presumed 34:8 33:17 quoting 35:23 46:9,10 50:20
38:6 pre-AEDPA 51:21 R 3:1 2:7 52:6
prima 34:9 39:14 21:19 24:3 recognition 36:4
24:18 prove 51:8 50:1 14:19,20
15:24 proving 10:23 rash 53:8 9:19 16:21
46:13 51:12,15,20 35:14 46:13 rationally 39:21 22:8,11 23:21
48:11,24 reports 38:23 32:7 34:17 Scalia 5:23 6:7 37:6,15 38:3,8
represented road 25:18 6:14 9:3,20 38:16,20 39:10
reserve 25:21 Roe 18:10 second-degree shorthand 33:22
24:6 round 21:23 section 4:7,8 13:11 33:8
19:12 resolving 3:18 22:1,1,13 send 9:24 shred 12:14
51:7 55:7 resort 22:2 24:25 25:9 sense 7:14 27:7 side 12:14 33:10
Respondent 27:22 33:22 sent 19:9 48:21
12:5 48:2 41:12,13 42:4 simple 6:17
51:8 San 1:18 54:1,10,14,15 33:11
29:24 34:23 35:3 51:7 53:4 51:18,22 53:13 six 35:18 44:5
45:12 36:24 satisfy 47:12 53:16,23 44:11 54:23
28:19 reversal 14:11 Sawyer 10:8 50:10 39:5
review 3:11 22:7 19:19 27:12,15 set 17:23 53:25 Smith 10:9
54:3,19 reviewing 4:21 30:6,22 31:8 25:23,24 26:1 sole 27:16
45:21 revocations 54:7 44:15,19 46:8 29:8,12 30:8 36:4
38:2 14:20 20:17 11:18 18:8 32:14,16,23 sound 8:25
28:14,22,24 29:21,23 30:1 suspect 21:7 think 4:6 5:18
11:22 31:21 36:13,14 34:17 37:5,12 10:2 14:9,12
36:18 48:16,20 40:11 42:23 T 14:20 15:21
25:11,18 49:4 51:12 43:21 47:13 T 2:1,1 16:7,15 17:6
30:22 52:14,23 53:3 strict 9:10 tactical 40:4,17 17:14 18:20,23
54:25 strike 46:19 40:18 51:2 19:2 22:14,17
41:5,9 stated 15:22,25 struck 11:5 take 7:19 13:16 23:25 24:21
53:20 18:10 20:24 struggled 11:7 15:14 18:19 32:10,16 39:21
15:19 16:1 submitted 11:24 talk 21:20 thorough 34:19
State's 23:7 substantial 21:11,13 43:17
30:4 29:4,6,9 31:17 successfully tell 7:21 15:9 14:10 19:18
50:5 54:1 sufficiently tells 23:19 31:20 49:1 54:7
9:10 17:1 step 28:10,11 summary 33:2 terrible 17:20 25:21 36:18,24
24:15 STEVEN 1:16 33:22 Terry 37:8 39:8,23 48:9
40:10,11 2:3,8 3:7 52:6 support 33:10 test 3:16,25 48:16,22 51:9
Stevens 16:19 supported 35:13 15:19 28:21 51:22 55:7
43:1,4 17:9,18 18:2,6 supposed 22:15 49:1 times 10:8 18:22
49:10 20:15,19 24:24 23:6 24:3 testified 41:1 35:18 44:11
stick 13:20 supposing 16:20 46:20 48:21 tipped 46:12
5:5,7,8 7:9 24:5 54:9 27:21 49:18,20 25:7
6:1 strategic 55:13 supreme 1:1,13 testifying 49:15 totally 50:10,15
Strickland 3:16 3:17 6:3,8 20:5 testimony 35:14 tracks 12:17
9:6,13 3:17,20 7:9 20:9,14 21:21 46:14,14,19 traditional 16:4
10:16,17 12:19 23:13 24:6,13 48:16 18:24
14:4 15:2,6,15 25:8 28:16,23 Thank 25:22 trained 39:14
15:24 16:4 29:10,19 31:10 52:2,3 55:16 transcript 11:15
13:21 17:1,1,11,13 47:4 theory 4:10 12:2,4 46:7
15:1,23 17:20,20,22 sure 24:22 thereof 29:13 treat 24:8
22:4,8 18:8,24 19:9 surely 14:23 thing 24:15 treatment 51:6
23:20 19:17 20:20,22 36:8 50:14 53:12 trial 12:2,4
25:3,3 28:2,4 52:15 things 21:9,13 13:11 26:25
28:6,9 28:18 29:15,20 surprise 36:19 47:20 52:9 27:6 29:22
36:15 29:10 43:21 withdrawing 1982 35:23
38:18 unreasonable 12:23 45:20 46:1
46:7 3:15 5:22 6:19 W witness 46:15 49:13
52:14,18 18:5,14 19:4 Wager 3:20 word 21:22
19:12,24 20:3 10:22 13:4,13 38:13 2
39:4,4 27:6,14,23 53:14 54:18 world 16:23 21 13:8
28:3,9,17,23 Wager's 16:3 worth 41:20 2254 8:5 9:10
50:24 18:18 24:22 wrong 10:25 41:19,20,22
34:24 unworkable wanted 30:23 35:22 38:15 54:9,15,16
17:16 WARDEN 1:4 41:25 45:20 25-year 43:11
upside 51:3 Washington 1:9 wrongfulness 27 41:19
v 1:6 3:4 6:15 16:10 19:7 53:17 3
37:13 18:10 19:11 31:9 44:10 X 30 55:6
23:14 26:5,6 47:20 48:6 x 1:2,8
Van 15:22 53:24 54:10,17 Yarborough 56 33:22 34:3
vast 15:16 went 7:22 11:9
29:4,17 52:16 we'll 47:23 54:7,9,10,12 9
45:2,5 viable 55:12 we're 4:18 16:5 54:13,15,16,17
26:12
49:5,6 victim 11:4 18:4,7 21:7 54:23
view 15:14 33:9 23:6 30:20
48:25 vigorous 39:14 52:21 07-1315 1:6 3:4
violated 17:13 whatsoever
40:11
1:14 3:2
29:23 42:22 wide 3:18
13:11
11:14
1:10
