IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
BURLINGTON NORTHERN AND :
SANTA FE RAILWAY :
COMPANY, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 07-1601
UNITED STATES, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
and
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
SHELL OIL COMPANY, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-1607
UNITED STATES, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, February 24, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:15 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of
the Petitioner in No. 07-1607.
MAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioners in No. 07-1601.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner in No. 07-1607 4
MAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners in No. 07-1601 18
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner in No. 07-1607 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:15 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in case 07-1601, Burlington
Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company et al. v. United
States.
Ms. Sullivan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
IN NO. 07-1607
MS. SULLIVAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The court of appeals in this case untethered
CERCLA liability for response costs from the plain
statutory language of CERCLA section 107(a)(3), and in
so doing also imposed potentially crippling liability on
entities with only the most attenuated connection to any
harm. 107(a)(3), which is reprinted in the petition
appendix in 1607 on page 266a, provides that among the
potentially responsible parties under CERCLA are
so-called arrangers; that is, those persons who by
contract, agreement, or otherwise arranged for disposal
of hazardous substances.
The paradigmatic case, of course, would be a
generator of hazardous waste calls up "Waste Co." and
asks Waste Co. to take those substances to a landfill or
to otherwise dispose of them. Where CERCLA does not
define a statutory term -- and there's no definition of
"arrange" -- this Court has long said, for example in
United States against Bestfoods, that we look to the
ordinary meaning of the language, and the plain meaning,
the ordinary meaning, of "arrange for" is to make plans
or preparations to do something. The ordinary meaning
of the word "for" is to refer to a purpose or goal. And
the ordinary meaning of "to dispose" is to discard or to
throw away. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if your shipper
here knew that every time he delivered one of these
truckloads of the chemical, one-third of it would end up
on the ground and seeping through the ground, and no
doubt about it, he knew that, and yet they kept sending
it? Wouldn't that be arranging for the disposal of at
least a third of the shipment?
MS. SULLIVAN: No, Your Honor. That's not
our facts, of course, but even if there -- there had
been knowledge here, knowledge is not sufficient to give
rise to the specific intent required by the statute.
Just as in the criminal law, we wouldn't infer in a
specific intent case that one is presumed to know the
natural consequences of one's acts. What is required
here is an actual plan to dispose. And --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose that it's
Shell's truck -- that isn't this case, but suppose it's
Shell's truck, and every time they make a delivery the
driver catches the waste in a can, four or five gallons,
and dumps it in the creek. Is Shell liable there under
the statute?
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Kennedy, Shell might
well be liable there, but not under 107(a)(3), rather
under 107(a)(2).
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, hasn't it arranged
for the disposal of the --
MS. SULLIVAN: You wouldn't reach arranger
liability there, Your Honor, because as in the Amcast
case, when Judge Posner said the truck is a facility,
the truck would be a facility that Shell owns or
operates in that instance. But in this case, of course,
Shell was hiring independent contractor truckers to ship
the waste.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm -- I'm not sure
that I agree with your answer. Can you give me an
example under this statute where Shell might be an
arranger -- give me some hypothetical in which Shell
would be an arranger?
MS. SULLIVAN: Well, Your Honor, we believe
under arranger liability shell would never be an
arranger here. The only thing --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What if Shell went out of
business and it had some stuff left in the tanks? At
that point, they might very well hire somebody to do
exactly what you're saying.
MS. SULLIVAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That would be an eccentric
situation, but it could happen.
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Souter, if Shell had
residual waste product that it was seeking to dispose,
then the natural reading of 107(a)(3) would apply
because that would be waste product.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why isn't that the case in
my hypothetical -- it's just a hypothetical -- where the
driver catches the five gallons that spills out of the
hose every week and dumps it in the creek?
MS. SULLIVAN: Your Honor --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's really the same as
the question you answered Justice Souter, and that's an
arranger under (3).
MS. SULLIVAN: Your Honor, the key
difference in the two hypotheticals that you've posed is
that Shell is the owner and operator of the disposal of
waste there, and therefore it would be a 107(a)(2) case,
not an arranger case. The arranger liability is
designed for --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Sullivan, would it be
altogether different if, instead of the FOB destination
term, Shell continued as owner of the product until it
had gone from the hose or whatever delivers it, so that
there is no transfer of ownership until the delivery is
complete?
MS. SULLIVAN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, that
would be a different case. That would be a case like
the so-called formulator cases, of which United States
against Aceto from the 8th Circuit is paradigmatic. And
in that case the key is that the company arranging --
the company was held liable for arranging to dispose of
waste where it owned the product throughout a
manufacturing process, sent it out to a formulator, but
got it back as its own product, knowing that inherent in
the formulation process was the creation of waste
material. So Shell would have been the owner of the
waste.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The problem I have with
that line you're pursuing is the FOB destination term is
an eminently fixable connection, and CERCLA is -- can be
a punishing statute, but the one thing that was not
intended was for the parties to arrange themselves out
of arranger liability by providing neatly that the
moment the product reaches a destination there's no
continuing responsibility on the part of the seller.
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Ginsburg, that is
correct with respect to arranging for the disposal of
waste. One couldn't evade one's responsibility for
arranging for the disposal of waste products. If you're
shipping sludge or discarded materials or spent battery
casings or waste oil, if you're shipping waste then you
can't get out of your obligations by simply arranging
for someone else to collect the waste FOB destination.
But the difference here is that this is not a waste
case. This is a --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Isn't it waste when it
spills? You deliver -- you're supposed to deliver 100
gallons, 5 gallons spills; isn't that waste?
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Kennedy, it only
matters for 107(a)(3) if we arrange for it to spill.
And as Judge Posner said in Amcast, no one arranges for
an accident except in the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: They know that --
hypothetical. They know that in the course of delivery
you're always going to spill about five gallons. That's
waste.
MS. SULLIVAN: Well, Justice Kennedy, the
district court found in this case that Shell had
knowledge of spills at the site of the bulk unloading.
These were minute spills, only 80 gallons, 80 gallons a
year out of 123,000, or .07 percent.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All I'm talking about is
just a hypothetical definition of waste.
MS. SULLIVAN: Your Honor, even if the
spills are waste, the key for arranger liability, the
key for arranger liability is that you arrange for
spills.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we were talking about
waste, and I just wanted to get your agreement -- maybe
you won't agree -- that when the product is delivered
and 5 percent of it spills, that is waste, and we can
talk about the other parts of it later.
MS. SULLIVAN: Your Honor, the statute
CERCLA, by cross-reference to the Solid Waste Disposal
Act, does include spills and leaks as possible waste,
and the natural application of that definition would be
to spills or leaks in a waste disposal. If a landfill
operator spills or leaks waste, then obviously that's
waste. But even if you treat drips of a useful product
-- and there's no dispute here that the D-D shipped to
the agricultural facility was a useful product, shipped
for commercial use for application in the fields. Even
if you view it as a spill of that product if a little
bit falls out of the hose upon delivery at the bulk
storage tank, it does not entail that Shell was an
arranger for the disposal of hazardous waste.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if Shell had a choice
between two companies to do the delivery. One would
deliver it with no spillage whatsoever, but the other
would deliver it with a certain amount, a small amount
of spillage. And Shell chose the latter because it was
cheaper. Would it not be arranging under those
circumstances?
MS. SULLIVAN: It might well be because
there would be an economic benefit to Shell from the
arrangement for shipment in the leaky truck. That would
be quite a different case from this one. There was no
economic benefit to Shell from the leaks here. In fact,
Shell did everything possible, so far as the record
shows, to prevent spills.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But I thought your
definition of -- of disposal implied the disposition of
something whose use had, in effect, been exhausted, so
that I would have thought your answer to Justice Alito's
question would have been different because even in the
case in which they hired a sloppy delivery, they're not
getting rid or the deliverer is not necessarily getting
rid of a product whose use has been exhausted.
MS. SULLIVAN: That is correct, Your Honor.
We believe the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would have thought you
would have similarly answered Justice Kennedy's question
differently and would have said that just because
something's wasted doesn't mean that it is waste. I
mean, you may waste part of what is delivered, but what
is spilled is -- it doesn't seem to me to be waste.
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Kennedy and Justice
Souter an easy way to hold this case and to reverse the
court of appeals would be simply to hold that when a
useful product is spilled it is not waste. And the
cross-reference to the Solid Waste Disposal Act would
support that interpretation because in 42 U.S.C. Section
6903(3) Congress defined "hazardous waste" as that
material which is discarded. It analogize it to sludge.
This is not a case about sludge or waste material.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your argument
assumes a sharp distinction between useful product and
waste. Yet it's quite common to talk about there being
waste associated with a useful product. When you use up
so much of this, there's going to be a certain
percentage of waste.
MS. SULLIVAN: Correct, Your Honor. But the
-- so even if you don't draw the line simply at the
useful product-waste distinction, we still do not
qualify as an arranger under 1007(a)(3) because we did
not arrange for the spill, we did not arrange for the
waste.
The government relies on facts in the record
to suggest that we had some special knowledge or special
responsibility, and of course the government's argument
that mere knowledge of a third-party's spills would
create arranger liability would disrupt commerce across
a range of industries. It would mean that the chlorine
company is liable when the pool supply store spills a
few drops of chlorine and the place becomes a facility.
It would mean that the maker of perchloroethylene is
liable when the dry cleaning establishment spills dry
cleaning fluid near the dry cleaning machine, even if
they had nothing to do with it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's making it too
easy for you. It would mean all of those people would
be liable when in the course of delivering stuff they
know there's going to be a certain amount that's going
to spill, and even, perhaps the Justice Alito
hypothetical, they could have easily chose the truck
that causes more spill rather than the one that causes
less. It's not simply here's the product, we're gone,
see you later, and all of a sudden there's a spill.
MS. SULLIVAN: Your Honor, there's no
suggestion in the record here that we're in Justice
Alito's example. The district court found that spills
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, i know. But
I'm trying to reach the extent of your argument. So in
that type of a case would there be arranger liability?
MS. SULLIVAN: There -- we believe there
would not be because spilling a useful product while
it's being delivered should not count as waste. But
even if you treated that as waste within the meaning of
the statute or even if you treated that as a discard of
a hazardous substance, there still should not be
arranger liability based on mere knowledge. There has
to be knowledge of a third party's spills.
The difference from Justice Alito's example
is that Shell there would be invested in the spillage as
part of its own economic transaction, as in formulator
cases, where you send a material out to a manufacturer
intending for it, expecting for it to spill in the
process, you know you're going to get 98 percent back.
That's not this case. Shell sought here, as most
routine commercial sellers and shippers do, to get a
third-party truck to take all of the stuff to B&B and
have it used for its commercial application as pesticide
in the field. There was no built-in here, no effort to
build in here any benefit for Shell in the leaky truck,
Quite distinguishing Justice Alito's example. The
government --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, one benefit would
be avoiding CERCLA liability through a means other than
what I call the fixable connection. Is this the first
occasion on which Shell because of its sales of D-D has
been charged with CERCLA liability? Is this a case of
first impression, or have there been other instances in
which Shell did very much the same thing, delivered the
D-D FOB destination?
MS. SULLIVAN: Your Honor, this is the first
and only case in the nation that has held that arranger
liability applies to a mere sale of a useful product
because a third-party purchaser after acquiring
possession and control spilled the product. So there's
no other case I am aware of in which it's been
adjudicated that there is any liability under these
facts.
But the key distinction here is that even if
you don't distinguish between the useful product and
waste and even if you go with Justice Kennedy's idea
that spilling a useful product could be waste, it still
is not arranging for the disposal of that substance
unless there's an intent to dispose. Here Shell wanted
every drop of D-D to be safely placed in the bulk
storage tank.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Ms. Sullivan, can I
interrupt you? Because I'm still puzzled by your answer
to Justice Alito. Are you conceding that if in this
case Shell had an alternative carrier who would not have
spilled a bit, that then there would be liability?
MS. SULLIVAN: No, we are not, Justice
Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I thought you did in your
answer to Justice Alito. Why wouldn't that be? Explain
your answer a little more fully?
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Stevens, we concede
that if there is a waste product that leaves Shell and
Shell deliberately arranges for a leaky carrier, there
would be no issue. That would be 107(a)(3). Even if --
and we concede there might be a possible case in which
Shell deliberately chooses to send a useful product in a
way that it leaks. It puts the product into leaky
containers when it leaves the shop. Then there might be
some case in which you might attribute knowledge, infer
intent from knowledge.
But this is not that case because here the
transfer to the third party -- the transfer to the third
party occurs at tender of delivery under ordinary UCC
principles. The -- the transfer to the third-party
purchaser occurs, and that's when the spillage occurs.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought there was as
part of this picture that Shell had a manual which told
its purchasers how to handle this material, and that
Shell was well aware that B&B was not following the
precautions laid out in the manual.
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Ginsburg, two points:
The manual comes out only in 1978, and a Shell
representative visits the site only in 1979. That
leaves 19 years of liability unaccounted for on that
period.
But, more important, it would be terribly
impractical and terribly perverse in relation to the
purposes of the environmental laws that Congress passed
to penalize a manufacturer for telling a third-party
purchaser how to handle a product more safely. So to
use the manual issued in 1978 or the inspection in 1979
as evidence that Shell knew there were spills and,
therefore, was an arranger would be perverse in relation
to the environmental statutes.
If there are no further questions, I would
like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Mahoney.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN E. MAHONEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
IN NO. 07-1601
MS. MAHONEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I would like to start with section 912 of
the Restatement because I think it really helps to
demonstrate that the trial court fully understood and
properly applied the common law standards that govern
the determination of apportionment in a pollution case.
That section provides that when a party bears the burden
of proof, they have to establish the extent of harm and
the amount of money with, quote, "as much certainty as
the nature of the tort and circumstances permit," end
quote.
At the time that CERCLA was adopted in 1980,
common law courts for more than a century had been using
that standard to apportion damages and harm in pollution
cases based on essentially rough estimates because the
nature of the tort, pollution, and the circumstances
don't allow for the kind of precision that we might
require in some other settings such as proof of -- of
fault, for instance.
And the United States, they say that the
district court departed from those common-law standards,
but it's telling: They don't cite a single common-law
case decided before CERCLA in their entire brief. If
you were to look at section 840(e) of the Restatement,
which governs nuisance cases and apportionment -- it's
an application of the section 433(a) standards -- they
cite -- the Restatement cites approximately 50 cases. I
don't think there's a single one where a court denied
apportionment for a nuisance for a harm such as this one
that is theoretically capable of apportionment.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This court -- - this
court, Ms. Mahoney, didn't deny apportionment.
Apportionment was never requested. The court said:
"I'm going to have to figure this out on my own." In
fact, the court deplored the parties for following what
he called a "scorched-earth tactic."
So the apportionment is not something that
has been denied to the PRPs in this case. It's
something that the court thought was proper and fair,
but it didn't deny any request made by parties, isn't
that so?
MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, in note 16 of the
Ninth Circuit's opinion it actually rejects that
argument by the government and says that apportionment
was pled throughout the case; that the government was on
notice. That's note 16. The trial court very
specifically rejected the government's claims of waiver
saying, yes, apportionment was at issue here throughout
the case, both in terms of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you point to me the
part of the district court opinion that conflicts with
the part that I remember so well? He is saying, this is
a really tough assignment; I have to figure it out.
MS. MAHONEY: Oh, he does say that, Your
Honor. But what he says is that the theory of
apportionment that was offered by the railroad, the
argument that it made -- they offered an expert -- that
gave substantial precision about how to allocate harm
among the different chemicals on the site -- he doesn't
accept that approach. He accepts a different approach.
But at 252(a) he says -- he confirms --
there is, quote, "considerable evidence of the relative
levels of activities and number of releases on the two
parcels" that allow him to find a basis of -- for making
a reasonable estimate of the apportionment, which was
his responsibility as the factfinder. In addition, Your
Honor --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it -- is it a judge's
responsibility, no matter what evidence may be in the
record from which one could make a finding, when a
finding hasn't been sought?
MS. MAHONEY: Well, Your Honor, the finding
of apportionment was sought. The trial court -- and,
again, note 16 of the -- of the Ninth Circuit's opinion
makes clear -- and the government doesn't say otherwise
-- that the railroads had requested apportionment. The
issue was whether or not they had argued the precise
theory, and the factfinder certainly has the authority
to choose the theory that it thinks best approximates
what is a reasonable estimate.
And in fact, Your Honor, the theory that the
trial court seized upon was actually suggested by the
government's own expert on cross-examination in the
transcript at -- at 4077 to '78.
And in addition, Your Honor, when it was
time for closing argument, which was September 28th,
1999, at the very beginning of the transcript, page 4,
the trial court said to the government -- it said to the
parties at the beginning of the closing argument, here's
what I want to know about. I want you to address
yourselves to whether or not I can apportion this harm
based upon the relative area on the site and the
relative time. He put the government on notice.
When the findings of fact came out, Your
Honor, the government could have filed a motion to amend
under Rule 52. They in fact filed a motion. They could
have asked to submit additional evidence if they somehow
thought that this had been unfair. They didn't do that.
Shell did it for other reasons, but the government
elected not to.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I suppose the district
court, if it wanted additional evidence, could have
said, I want additional evidence on this point.
MS. MAHONEY: It absolutely could have. And
so that argument of waiver was rejected by two courts
below, both by the district court in denying the motion
to amend -- it granted it in certain respects, but
rejected waiver, and then by the Ninth Circuit --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -- what if
you have a situation where it's clear under
apportionment one party is liable for one-tenth and the
other is liable for nine-tenths, but one-tenth is enough
to pollute the -- the water. Do you have apportionment
in that situation?
MS. MAHONEY: It depends, but generally yes.
And the reason, if it, as here -- the cost of the remedy
is driven by the mass of the contamination -- and it was
undisputed that that was the case here -- then the costs
have gone up based upon the aggregate harm.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I assume it's
not a linear, if that's the right word, progression,
because once you've got to start a clean-up, you've got
to start a clean-up, whether it's, you know, caused by
one-tenth or -- or nine-tenths.
MS. MAHONEY: But it's that the whole cost
-- the question under apportionment is: Are all of the
damages attributable to the harm that was caused by the
defendant? And if they're not, then apportionment is
appropriate. And here --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that hasn't been --
that hasn't been the position of most courts under
CERCLA. I thought they -- I thought that there had been
relatively few cases where apportionment, when
requested, was even allowed because the theory is the
act provides for contribution. One PRP can go after
another, but the party who shouldn't be left holding the
bag is the public, the innocent victims of the
pollution.
MS. MAHONEY: Well, Your Honor, under -- the
government has acknowledged that the apportionment
standards from the Restatement apply under the -- under
CERCLA. And cases, as I indicated, the cases under
840(e) almost always allowed apportionment for
pollution, even though it meant that a farmer or a
rancher or a grower was left holding with harm that was
caused by another defendant. But the law has always
said you can't impose damages on a defendant that had no
causal responsibility.
Here what we're talking about, under the
Ninth Circuit's holding, that they -- they didn't
question the district court's factfinding at 248a that
it is indisputable that the overwhelming majority of
hazardous substances were released by B&B on its own
parcel, on its own land, not on the railroad's land.
Its own operations on its own --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought -- I thought --
and tell me if my recollection of the facts is
incorrect, that the -- the newer parcel that enabled B&B
to expand its operation, the waste went into a pond,
what was called South, that was on the other side, that
was on the original B&B parcel. So you had the waste
flowing from one part to the other.
MS. MAHONEY: The trial court found that it
was plausible that some leakage, some spills on the
railroad parcel, during the 13 years of the lease made
it into the groundwater by traveling nearly two football
fields in an area that hardly has any rain, but said
that 9 percent was the maximum of damages that could
possibly be attributable to this.
What the Ninth Circuit really says is that,
even though B&B began dumping thousands of gallons of
chemical rinsate in 1960, which was 36 years before this
case was filed, 15 years before the lease was ever
entered into, that all of that harm that was caused by
B&B has to be paid by the railroads, because they can't
-- that's almost $40 million now -- because they can't
prove with precision whether their share of the damages
might be zero or one million or nine million.
And so what, in essence, the Ninth Circuit
did was said that because there weren't adequate records
to prove what amount of dumping was going on in 1960
when there wouldn't have been any reason to keep those
records, that as a default matter 100 percent of the
harm has to be allocated by the railroads, even though
it's not -- they didn't question the district court's
finding that it's indisputable that the overwhelming
majority was by B&B on its own land. And the court has
to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about the issue
of insolvency? You have talked about the Restatements.
There's the comment H to one of the Restatement
provisions that says you don't apportion if one of the
other parties is insolvent.
MS. MAHONEY: Actually, that's -- Your
Honor, what it actually says is that the district court
in exceptional cases may deny apportionment due to
insolvency. And here the district court at 248a found
this was not such a case, exercised its discretion to
say no.
And in addition, Your Honor, there are no
cases cited in that section of the Restatement where
this was actually done. And the Third Restatement in
section 28, comment C, says that that comment was
actually inconsistent with section 433(a) principles.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Stewart.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, may it
please the Court:
If I could begin with the issue of arranger
liability. The Ninth Circuit distinguished what it
referred to as the useful product cases and made it
clear that it would not impose arranger liability on
Shell simply under the theory that Shell had sold a
useful product that was later disposed of in a way that
contaminated the environment.
Rather, the Court of Appeals and the
district court emphasized both that Shell had control
over the delivery process and that Shell knew that, as
the district court put it, leaks and spills were
inherent in the chosen method.
JUSTICE BREYER: How does that differ from
you using your printer, there's an ink cartridge and you
replace them after a while, and mine has a little thing
attached that says don't put it in your ordinary garbage
bin because it's dangerous or whatever it is, put it in
this envelope and do something?
Now, I'm sure that HP makes those and knows
that several million people won't do it. They will
throw it in the garbage bin, and they ship to it me.
All right. Are they now arrangers?
MR. STEWART: No, I don't think they
would -- they -- I don't think they would be arrangers
for the disposal.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because?
MR. STEWART: Because even though they might
foresee that in some --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, some? No, probably
millions. I don't know anybody who does put it in the
right garbage can.
(Laughter.)
MR. STEWART: But -- first, I think under
ordinary tort law principles a seller's knowledge that a
certain percentage of its product would be misused would
not be sufficient to give rise to liability --
JUSTICE BREYER: Then how is that then
different from Shell? Shell here knows that to some
degree their people are going to spill this. And, of
course, shell arranged the transport. And in my
imaginary hypothetical -- I don't really know -- so does
HP.
MR. STEWART: There are two differences.
The first is that while HP might know that some
percentage of its customers would dispose of the
material improperly, here the district court found that
Shell knew that spills and leaks occurred with every
delivery. And the second --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, now maybe HP knows
that there is a particularly bad customer like Breyer
who --
(Laughter.)
-- because I foolishly admitted at dinner
that I dispose of them all improperly. Now are they
Shell?
MR. STEWART: The second difference here is
that Shell arranged for the delivery and controlled the
circumstances under which the delivery would be made.
That is, Shell hired the common carrier and Shell
required that B&B have bulk storage facilities so that
the D-D would have to be pumped from the delivery truck
into the bulk storage.
JUSTICE BREYER: So then, suddenly if HP, in
fact, uses -- I guess they lease -- you know, they have
a common carrier, imagine -- or suppose it's car
batteries, same problem. They have their own trucks,
and they -- or they use Fed Ex; I don't know. And they,
in fact, put in an instruction, which says: Really do
it; really put it in the special now.
MR. STEWART: Again, at a certain point,
once the product has been used by the customer --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm trying to find that
point. And what I have found you so far to say from the
briefs is that what Shell here did -- I'm not saying it
easy -- but what they did was they arranged the
transport, that seems to me to be common, and they put
some instructions in which said the right way to dispose
of it. Well, doesn't everybody do that?
MR. STEWART: No, because the fact
circumstance here was not that Shell or the common
carrier transferred control of the D-D to B&B with
instructions as to how it was to be used at a later
date, and the customer then violated those instructions.
The fact pattern here is that the spills occurred during
the process of delivery.
And to return to Justice Alito's
hypothetical, you asked what if Shell deliberately chose
a particular delivery company that it knew would result
in spills, but did so for economic advantage, that's
exactly the case here. That is, at a prior time the D-D
had been shipped to B&B's facility in sealed drums, so
whatever the possibility that it might be misused later,
it wouldn't be spilled or leaked during the process of
delivery and transfer. But Shell decided that it was to
its economic advantage to require bulk storage of D-D.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. You say in the
process of delivery. I thought that this material
became the property of the buyer when the truck arrived.
Are you saying it only -- it only became the property of
the buyer when it was unloaded from the truck?
MR. STEWART: The district court
specifically declined to make a finding there. That
is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What does "FOB" normally
mean?
MR. STEWART: It says "FOB delivery or place
of delivery." And the district court found that B&B
acquired what it called stewardship over the property at
the time that the truck entered the premises, but that
it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think -- I think it's
something of a misdescription to say that this spillage
is occurring in the course of delivery.
MR. STEWART: But the district court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think as far as Shell was
concerned, delivery had been made when the truck pulled
up.
MR. STEWART: Well, the district court
specifically declined to find -- to make a finding as to
who owned the D-D at the time it was spilled.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're making it.
MR. STEWART: We don't think that our
argument is dependent upon the question of ownership,
because Shell undeniably had ownership and possession of
the D-D at the time the arrangement was made, and --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Independent of the time of
control.
JUSTICE BREYER: Independent but not at the
time of the spill.
MR. STEWART: That's correct. But that
would be true in the paradigmatic arranger case, where
one company has generated waste and hires a hauler to
pick it up and take it away. Those parties could easily
provide by contract that title would pass to the hauler
at the time the garbage --
JUSTICE BREYER: Then in your view what it
is is a company arranges with a transporter for disposal
when the company knows that the transporter on arrival
may spill some of the product?
MR. STEWART: It's more than --
JUSTICE BREYER: I guess then every oil
company -- well, I mean, every liquid product company in
the United States is going to be -- fall within that
because a lot of people do spill things.
MR. STEWART: Knowledge might well be
sufficient, but here we have more than knowledge, we
have control.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But why do we -- I mean, do
we have control? Shell says to its buyer, see that the
delivery is made in the following way, so it doesn't
spill all over the place. If Shell did control, it
wouldn't have to say that to the buyer. In effect it
could either order the buyer, as a condition of receipt
of the product, or it could require that as part of the
-- its terms with the - with the deliverer. It seems to
me that the way Shell has set it up indicates that
control has passed to somebody else at the time that the
spigot starts going in the tank.
MR. STEWART: Well, as Ms. Sullivan said,
the instructions were given in 1978, fairly far into the
period of contamination. But Even before that date
Shell had control in the sense that it required bulk
storage on the B&B facility.
JUSTICE SOUTER: He says, we won't sell you
to unless you -- you -- you have these tanks, correct?
MR. STEWART: And its contract with the
common carrier required that the common carrier have
particular equipment for pumping the D-D out of the
truck and into the bulk storage facility.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, so what is your -- no
question, those are -- those are terms of their
willingness to deal. But what is your basis for saying
that when the truck pulls up and they -- the hose is
turned on to deliver, that at that point Shell is
controlling the process?
MR. STEWART: They have -- they have control
of the process in the sense of defining the way it is to
be done. You're correct that the actual process of
unloading is being done by employees of the common
carrier and employees of B&B rather than employees of
Shell. But again, the whole point of arranger liability
is to not allow the people who set in motion the process
that culminates in disposal to get off the hook.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So you don't -- but maybe
you do claim, I'm not sure -- that Shell actually could,
in effect get damages from its deliverer as a result of
the -- the deliverer's incidental spillage. Is that
your position?
MR. STEWART: That is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That is, that the spillage
is a breach of the contract between the transporter and
Shell?
MR. STEWART: Well, I think if -- if Shell
had pursued such a cause of action, then the delivery
company might well have argued that these -- this was
foreseeable and that there was --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But do you have any basis
for saying that if it had pursued that course of action,
Shell would have succeeded?
MR. STEWART: No. And --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then why is Shell in
control?
MR. STEWART: I mean, that's my point.
Shell would not have succeeded in such a suit, because
the delivery company would have argued successfully this
was known to be an inherent consequence of the delivery
process that Shell has chosen.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, yes, but you're
saying that the delivery company would have had a
defense, but you are -- are saying that Shell would have
had at least a theoretical right under its actual
contract with the deliverer to assert the -- the control
over the manner of delivery that would have prevented
the spill; is that what you're saying?
MR. STEWART: Well, it certainly insisted by
contract on the use of the pumping equipment of -- to
pump the D-D from the truck into the bulk storage
facility. And that was --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's the only way they
could do it if the buyer did have bulk storage, isn't
that correct?
MR. STEWART: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. STEWART: So -- and to use an analogy --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask, is it essential
to your theory that Shell had title to the material
until delivery?
MR. STEWART: It's not essential to our
theory. That is, the point of the arranger liability
provision is to get at situations in which one person
sets in motion a --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What if it were a fungible
product and the purchaser just agreed to take either
some product of this -- this quantity and quality and so
forth, but they could substitute other -- other goods
from another source? Would Shell still be liable?
MR. STEWART: I mean, I guess I would have
to know more about the hypothetical in -- as to the
circumstances in which the disposal occurred.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, Shell gave all the
same instructions they gave here, but they just didn't
insist that it be their product rather than somebody
else's, another oil company's product.
MR. STEWART: I guess I just -- I don't
really understand the hypothetical, because I don't
understand the situation in which Shell would be
indifferent as to whether its product was being bought
or the product of a competitor was being bought.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Stewart, could I go
back to a -- we have been arguing about details. Can I
go back to the -- to the broader question? What is your
best response to the argument that Ms. Sullivan makes
that "arrange for disposal" implies something
significantly different from "arrange for transfer,"
"arrange for release," "arrange for delivery" -- that
the -- that the combination of arrangement as an
intentional act and disposal, as opposed to one of these
-- these other processes, implies that the, in effect,
the use of the product intended has become exhausted and
that one in getting rid of waste as distinct from merely
wasting something. What is -- what is your best answer
to that?
MR. STEWART: We agree that the term
"arrange for" connotes intentionality, and we think it's
satisfied here because Shell intentionally set in motion
the process of delivery. It insisted upon the delivery
being done in a particular fashion, and it knew that
spills and leaks were inherent in that process. To use
an analogy --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But if we're not arguing
about that, what you are arguing about, then, is the --
is the implication of disposal, as opposed to a more
neutral term like transfer or delivery or what-not.
What's your answer to that?
MR. STEWART: The further point I would make
is that the term "disposal" is specifically defined to
include spilling and leaking.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Oh, but those are certainly
ways in which disposal can occur, as I -- I think came
out in the argument. If the -- if Waste Management
spills things along the highway on the way to the dump,
it may be leakage, but a disposal is going on because in
fact it is a way of getting rid of something that no
longer has any use.
So I -- I can -- I don't think the -- the
inclusion of leakage within the definition answers the
question whether disposal is something different from
transfer.
MR. STEWART: To use a couple of analogies,
I think if I know that my car leaks oil whenever it's
operated and I choose to drive it on the public highway,
I think I could naturally be said to have intentionally
discharged oil onto the highway. It may be --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well you have discharged,
but you -- the question is whether it's disposal.
MR. STEWART: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: "Discharge" is a more
neutral term.
MR. STEWART: Well again, the term
"disposal" is specifically defined to include spilling
and leaking. You're right that one --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but I mean, that --
that -- that begs the question. Because in the course
of disposing, in the sense that she argues for, there
can be leakage.
MR. STEWART: That's true, but --
JUSTICE SOUTER: The question is disposal
versus transfer or some more neutral term.
MR. STEWART: If you had a situation, for
instance, where the trash company was hauling waste and
intended to dispose of it in a more classic sense by
dumping it at a landfill, but along the way the truck
leaked, and some of the items spilled out --
JUSTICE SOUTER: When?
MR. STEWART: -- I think everybody
acknowledges that there is disposal there, and I think
we would also say that a company that contracted with
that trash hauler, knowing that the vehicle tended to
leak trash on -- on every delivery, could be said to
have arranged for not only the ultimate disposal, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: No that's at that point,
because I think you're focusing on the word. You don't
use the word "for" disposal, and I think that is the key
word, and the question is intention versus purpose.
So that in your trash hauler case, it seems
to work pretty well for me that when we say that that
trash truck of course intended in the sense that it was
its purpose to dispose of the trash when it got to the
dump, but the leakage along the way, it was not its
purpose.
So how do we deal with that? The statute
tells us that they are an owner of a facility or a
vessel that leaks, and therefore they are liable that
way. Now, that seems to work.
So we get your example. What doesn't seem
to work is when you import the notion of intention in
the sense of knowing that to the arranger provision,
because at that point I don't see how -- and I have to
buy that to get your argument. At that point I do not
see how you get every thing of Clorox on the shelf on
the shelf in the supermarket and don't put Clorox right
in the arranger provision and lots of other companies
that shouldn't be held as arrangers. That's my problem.
Are you following that?
MR. STEWART: I am following that, but I
think that the court of appeals dealt with this and
said: Our holding does not suggest that every
manufacturer of a useful product is liable down the road
if the customer ultimately disposes of it --
JUSTICE BREYER: It does say that, but my
problem is I can't find in the distinctions that they
made useful distinctions that will do that. It will say
"many," but it won't say, for example, the car battery
manufacturer who sends his car batteries out in his own
trucks to places where people will get them, and he
knows that they're not going to do it properly no matter
how hard he tries.
Well, he's not an arranger. He didn't
arrange the transport for disposal; he arranged the
transport for sale.
MR. STEWART: I mean, I think in a sense the
argument for liability there would depend in part on an
assumption that people will systematically violate the
law, like it would be an easy thing for the Court to say
we will not assume and we will not impose liability on
the basis of the assumption that battery customers will
systematically violate the law.
But the second thing that would be missing
in that hypothetical, even if the battery manufacturer
were assumed to know that every one of his customers
would dispose of them ultimately in an improper way, is
that the battery manufacturer would not be in control of
that process.
The manufacturer's control over the use of
the batteries and their ultimate disposal would be
severed once he turned them over, and that was not the
case here. And again I think to return to the purposes
of the arranger liability provision, the operator
liability provision deals very well with the people who
undertake the actual disposal, but Congress evidently
thought that that was not enough.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is Shell liable
because it -- it knew of the transportation
arrangements?
MR. STEWART: I think it is a combination of
knowledge and control. Knowledge might be sufficient,
but knowledge and control together form a basis for
arranger liability. Again, if I know that the
particular common carrier uses a truck, to use a variant
of my earlier hypothetical, if I know that a particular
common carrier uses a truck that leaks oil whenever it's
operated on the highway and I contract with that carrier
and ask it to haul goods, I think I can naturally be
said to have arranged for the discharge of oil on --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but you -- in that
case, you have knowledge but you don't have control
because you're using a common carrier.
MR. STEWART: I have -- I have control in
the sense that I have deliberately selected a mode of
delivery, a particular common --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then you mean simply
control over your own choice process?
MR. STEWART: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Not control over the
behavior of your hauler?
MR. STEWART: Not -- not control in the
sense of using my own personnel to drive the truck.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Whether you have -- you
might have knowledge that one chemical broker is more
careless than another in the way the product was
ultimately sold, I don't see why your theory doesn't
make the seller liable as an arranger if it knows or
ought to know that at some point in the distribution
process there is likely to be spillage which will enter
the waters of the United States. I think that's what
your argument implies. I just don't see that in the
statute.
MR. STEWART: Again, because here Shell had
control over the very aspect of the process that
resulted in spills and leaks.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You mean it could have --
could have adopted some other means?
MR. STEWART: Not only --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's all you mean by
having control over it.
MR. STEWART: Not only that it could have
adopted some other means, but that it insisted upon the
particular means --
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. So all you're
requiring is knowledge that using this means will --
will result in a spill. I don't think knowledge alone
is enough for -- I think you need purpose. If you
arrange for disposal, I think you have to have a
purpose. It -- it has to be your object to have the oil
leaking along the highway as you go. Merely knowing
that it's going to be leaking, I mean, there may be some
other way under the statute that you can find liability
on the part of the shipper, but not, it seems to me, on
the -- on the ground that the shipper arranged for this
leak. He didn't want the leak. He knew it was
happening, but that was not the object of the transport.
MR. STEWART: Clearly, if the Court reads
the term "arrange for" to require purpose, we lose in
this case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.
MR. STEWART: -- because that was not the
purpose of the transaction. But here there was both
knowledge and control.
And in terms of fairness to Shell, I think
it is worth noting that in the typical arranger setting,
where a person asks a trash hauler to come pick up my
trash and deposit it in an appropriate place, that the
arranger's ultimate liability may be determined very
substantially by steps that the hauler takes afterwards;
that is, if the arranger believes that the trash is
going to be disposed of safely, but in fact the hauler
dumps it in a way that will contaminate the environment.
The arranger was --
JUSTICE ALITO: Can I ask you a question
about your argument that the Petitioners waived their
apportionment argument? Aren't there many pages of the
district court record in which the parties address
apportionment? For example, in the government's
response to the Petitioners' apportionment argument,
don't you have more than 20 pages of findings of fact
and conclusions of law on the issue of apportionment?
MR. STEWART: We haven't used the word
"waiver" in our brief and -- but we concede that the
railroads and Shell, at least in a cursory way, raised
the issue of apportionment at trial, and the Ninth
Circuit found that was sufficient to preserve it. In
our view, this is like any case in which a party with
the burden of proof on a particular issue asserts that a
particular proposition is true but fails to introduce
sufficient evidence to carry its burden. You wouldn't
speak of that as waiver, but it's still a failure of the
party to come forward with enough to carry the day. And
you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: On the question of
apportionment, is it really your position that because
of the precision you would require, that if there's a
big fight over whether it's 10 percent responsibility or
30 percent and there's no way to tell, that if the
parties said, look, we'll take 40 percent, that that's
no good?
MR. STEWART: No, I think that would be an
acceptable approach. I think that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Isn't that what
happened here? I mean, whatever -- I guess the
railroads said 6 percent, and the district court said,
well, just to be on the safe side, we'll give them 9
percent.
MR. STEWART: Well, I guess we would have
two responses. The first is, although the district
court certainly believed that he was -- the district
judge believed he was building in a margin of safety, in
our view it's still speculative as to whether the
railroad's share of the contamination exceeded or was
less than 9 percent.
But the more fundamental point is the one
that you raised in one of your questions; that is, the
ultimate harm to the government in a practical sense is
the incurrence of response costs, and in general that's
the way that damages are measured in a CERCLA case. You
don't ask, what threat -- what was the degree of public
-- of threat to the public safety that was posed by the
contamination? You ask, how much did it cost to clean
it up? And it --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you dispute what Ms.
Mahoney said, that it costs a great deal more to clean
up some of the other chemicals than the ones that the
railroad was responsible for?
MR. STEWART: Well, I think -- I don't think
that the record kind of establishes the relative costs
of different contaminants. What I understood Ms.
Mahoney to say --
JUSTICE ALITO: The volume, the volume.
MR. STEWART: What I understood her to say
was that the cost of the remedial action is proportional
to the mass of chemicals to be removed, and we do
dispute that proposition. The railroad's expert, Dr.
Kalinowski testified about the remedial action that the
government at that time was contemplating, and it was
what was referred to as "a pump-and-treat system," where
water would be pumped out of the aquifer and it would be
treated with granular-activated carbon, or GAC, and that
was a method of removing the contaminants so that the
water could be pumped back in. And Dr. Kalinowski said
the amount of GAC that would be needed to implement that
remedy would be proportional to the mass of the
chemicals involved, but that the crucial point for these
purposes is the treatment with GAC is only a small
portion of the pump-and-treat remedy; that is, it's
essential to drill wells, pump the water out, then treat
it, and then under the prior remedial approach, pump it
back in. And then --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that still
doesn't address the question, if you have varying
degrees of whatever you want to call it -- fault or
causal relationship -- that that's a sensible way to
apportion the liability.
MR. STEWART: I think the first preliminary
point is there's no reason to think that the cost of the
remedy as a whole would be proportional to the mass of
the contaminants because you have very substantial fixed
costs, but the other point I would make is this is where
the insolvency of B&B really seems to us to become
crucial because, if you had all solvent defendants and
the evidence showed that the remedy the government
implemented would have been more or less the same if it
had only been 10 percent of the contamination, 30
percent of the contamination, or 100 percent of the
contamination, that so much of the costs were fixed
costs that reducing the volume was really not going to
affect the cost in any meaningful way -- if you had all
solvent defendants, it might still be the case that
dividing the costs up in proportion to the contamination
they caused would do rough justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what -- what
about Ms. Mahoney's three answers, when I asked that
question of her?
MR. STEWART: Well, I believe her first
answer was the cost of the remedy would be proportional
to the amount of contamination, which we disagree with,
and we don't think Dr. Kalinowski's testimony bears that
out, because all he said was the amount of
granular-activated carbon that would be necessary is
proportional to the mass of contaminants. And that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: She also said that
the Restatement comment h that you rely on cites no
cases, and the Third Restatement backs away from that
comment.
MR. STEWART: Well, as to the first point,
the comment h, you're right, doesn't cite cases, and it
does say that this -- the insolvency of the defendant
need not prevent apportionment, only that it would
provide a basis for doing so in exceptional cases. But
in our view, the exceptional case would be one in which
the ultimate determination was that the cost of the
remedy, the amount of the relevant harm, would be more
or less the same even if only one defendants's
contamination were at issue, that it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you don't think
that the insolvency should prevent apportionment if you
have a situation where a party is 1 percent responsible
and the 99 percent responsible party is insolvent?
MR. STEWART: Well, we would say even as to
10 or 20 percent, if it were established that the remedy
the government would have been required to implement,
had the only source of contamination been leakage on the
railroad parcel -- if it were established that the
government could have cleaned that up at 10 percent or
20 percent of the cost of the remedy that was actually
chosen, then there might be a sound basis for
apportionment despite the insolvency of B&B.
But our big point is, at the very least, the
government should not be left holding the bag for costs
that it would have been required to incur if the
railroad parcel had been the only source of
contamination, because --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And what do we have
in the way of findings on that question?
MR. STEWART: We don't have findings either
way. That is, the district court framed the relevant
inquiry as what percentage of the contamination was
attributable to the railroad parcel, to the
Shell-controlled deliveries, and to the B&B parcel. But
it made no finding one way or the other as to what the
cost of the remedy would have been if only the -- the
only source of contamination had been the railroad
parcel.
And certainly the -- the primary equitable
thrust of the argument on the other side is it's unfair
to make us pay for somebody else's contamination. But
to the extent that the government would have been
required to implement a remedy this costly or even 60
percent this costly had the railroads or Shell been the
only source of contamination, by imposing at least that
amount of liability, we're not asking for them to pay
for B&B's contamination. We're simply asking for them
to pay for the response costs that their own --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But is that right?
I mean doesn't it -- aren't you challenging the whole
basis for apportionment? I mean there is -- I don't
think when you're apportioning responsibility, you
allocate whether or not the actors independently caused
the harm. I thought the assumption was, yes,
everybody's -- all of this group has contributed to the
harm, but now we're going to apportion their
responsibility.
MR. STEWART: Well, indeed, the second
restatement says as a categorical matter that if either
of two causes would have been independently sufficient
to bring about the result, then there's joint and
several liability. The example that the restatement
gives is two merging fires that destroyed a building.
And so I think it is established in -- in
the second restatement that the -- there is no
apportionment if either of two causes would have brought
about the -- the feared harm.
With -- with respect to the third
restatement, I would say that at least in the case of --
you're -- you're right. There is no exact counterpart
to comment (h) in the third restatement. But at least
as to indivisible harms -- and I think this is
potentially an indivisible harm that the government
would have been required to undertake more or less the
same response action regardless of the source of
contamination.
At least as to individual harms, the third
restatement gives a variety of approaches that a local
jurisdiction could take. There's joint and several
liability, pure several liability, and then there are
several permutations. And the third restatement is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that a finding? Do we
have to take it as a given that this was an indivisible
harm?
MR. STEWART: I don't know that -- I think
you should take it as a given because it was the
defendant's burden to prove different divisibility. But
I think if you don't regard the defendants as having the
burden, I don't think there is an evidentiary basis for
feeling confident one way or the other as to whether the
harm was indivisible. But with respect to --
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the basis for
thinking that every little detail in the latest
restatement, including comments, is binding in a CERCLA
case?
MR. STEWART: I don't think so, and this
Court in Norfolk and Western -- it was dealing with a
different statute, but it said when you're looking at
the restatement, it's more important what the state of
the law was when Congress enacted the statute rather
than what the common-law principles are now. And as
we've said in our brief, we think for that reason the
second restatement is the more crucial document.
But if you were to look at the third
restatement, one of the things you would find is that
the drafters, as to indivisible harms, identified a
variety of approaches that a local jurisdiction could
take -- expressly decline to choose a preferred one
among them, but said the most important determinant in
choosing between them is how will the risk that a
particular defendant be insolvent will be allocated.
So the drafters of the third restatement
certainly didn't treat insolvency as a factor that
should be ignored in citing questions of an
apportionability.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I -- may I just ask
one question about the -- the situation of -- of these
two potentially responsible parties? They are the only
ones left, right? Because B&B is bankrupt, and there's
nobody else that has been identified.
MR. STEWART: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it's only those two.
And one question about the arranger liability -- well,
first on the apportionment. Assuming we don't accept
your entire position, would a remand so that proof could
be put in by both sides focusing on the issue of
apportionment be appropriate? You questioned the
district, even -- even if apportionment were possible,
you questioned how he arrived at it.
MR. STEWART: I guess that's true. To the
argument that I've just been sketching out, that -- that
the crucial question is what response costs the
government would have been required to bear if -- if
only the railroad parcel's contamination had been at
issue, our argument is that the -- the railroads failed
to prove divisibility. But another option would be to
remand for factual proceedings to address that question.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And is it true, as Ms.
Sullivan said, that there is no other arranger case like
this one where the, quote, "arranger" is the seller of a
product?
MR. STEWART: I think there is no "arranger"
case going in either direction that is on all fours with
this one where there is the sale of a useful product
during the course of a delivery that the seller arranged
-- that the seller controlled.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Sullivan, we will give you five minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
IN NO. 07-1607
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Ms. Sullivan, just on the
apportionment point, do you agree that it is your burden
to show that this is a divisible harm, and can you tell
me how you showed that?
MS. SULLIVAN: Yes, Justice Kennedy. The --
there is no dispute in this case that this was a
divisible harm. Mr. Stewart answered Justice Scalia's
question incorrectly.
The district court found and the circuit
court also found -- the circuit court's finding is on
page 36-A of the Petitioner's appendix -- that there is
no dispute that the harm here is divisible; that is,
there -- the -- the harm here is capable of
apportionment. That is not disputed before this Court.
What is disputed is whether at the second
stage of analysis the railroads and Shell met our burden
-- and we agree it is our burden under restatement
principles -- of showing the -- the quantum of division,
the reasonable basis for how the shares were allocated
by the District Court. And Justice Alito is correct.
There are meticulous findings, 20 pages of findings,
based on record evidence from the government's witnesses
and from the extensive expert testimony that both Shell
and the railroads put in that went to the apportionment
issue. Shell argued --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not sure I know
what it means to say it's a divisible harm.
MS. SULLIVAN: It's capable of
apportionment. The restatement suggests in the cases
applying this -- it says you ask at the first stage: Is
the harm capable of apportionment as a matter of law?
And then as a matter of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that means that
whatever percentage of responsibility the parties have,
that's the percentage of cost that they --
MS. SULLIVAN: They should bear. But then
they -- it's up to the parties to prove a reasonable
basis for apportionment. But both Shell and the
railroads did argue, Justice Ginsburg -- put into
evidence and argued at the district court that there
should be apportionment --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So does that mean
that, let's say, the -- how does that work when it costs
$2 million to sort of start a clean-up, no matter who,
and then, you know, the more stuff there is, the extra
million it is? Is that -- is -- is the initial cost a
divisible harm?
MS. SULLIVAN: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, the
district court here was conservative. It allocated all
of the costs, fixed and specific, to the parties. So
the conservative estimate of six percent for Shell, nine
percent for the railroads, was based on the heroic
assumption that a few drops spilled two football fields
away of a volatile substance that evaporates twice as
fast as water would be picked up by a rainfall that
could happen at the relevant quantities only once every
ten years according to our expert, once every seven
years according to the government's expert -- on the
heroic assumption that all of those drips reached the
pond which created a single plume of contamination.
Assuming that, then we award six percent or nine percent
of liability.
But the point is there was record evidence,
Justice Ginsburg -- and there is no need for a remand on
this. There was ample evidence for which the six
percent and the nine percent could be -- we -- and we
didn't object and say we --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not normally how
-- when -- when someone has a burden of proof, it's a
burden of coming forward. And the one thing that we do
know from this district judge is he's saying, I was left
largely to make it up. What he -- the components of his
allocation did not come from -- yes, there is some
evidence in the record. But ordinarily when you talk
about a party who has a burden of proof, we don't mean
they put in a piece here and a piece there and left it
to the district judge to figure out.
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Ginsburg, there is no
question that both the railroads and Shell argued for
zero percent liability. But the same evidence that we
put in and the proposed findings of fact -- for example,
if you want to look at Docket Nos. 1317 and 1318,
Shell's proposed findings of fact did suggest a basis
for apportionment. So we met our burden of production
as well as proof. But the -- to return to the question
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm really concerned about
the time and the white light, but I'm -- I'm not sure
you answered the Chief Justice's hypothetical about $2
million, which is an initial clean-up that has to be
expended no matter how large the -- the spill was. How
did you discharge your burden of proof to show that that
is not the case here or that that is divisible?
MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Kennedy, here -- and
I refer you to the Petitioner's appendix at page -- I'm
sorry, to the joint appendix at page 288, to the expert
Kalinouski who described it as a single mass removal
scheme.
This is not a case like a toxic soup case in
a landfill with 238 different chemicals that require
different extraction procedures. This is a case in
which two chemicals reached the ground water and were to
be removed by a single mass extraction scheme, a single
-- what the expert called at joint appendix 288 a mass
removal scheme. It was not disputed or argued on appeal
that there was a single remediation process. So this is
a simple case in which we are relying --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, we don't suppose that
that cost -- that single thing cost $2 million, and you
will have to hire that $2 million machine even if there
is one drop. So for the cost of that machine it
couldn't matter if your client put in one drop and
nobody else put in any, or the others put in 40 billion
drops. Can you allocate it? It would seem fair to
allocate it, but I guess maybe in the restatement there
is some law somewhere saying you can't, because it's
just one single cost that takes place regardless.
What's the state of the law on that? How do you --
MS. SULLIVAN: May I answer? A reasonable
basis is all that's required. A practical approximation
is appropriate here. Here the court did not distinguish
between fixed capital costs and operating costs that
might matter in a different case. But the key point
here is that you should affirm as a matter of Federal
common law that restatement 433(a) provides only a
demand for a reasonable basis and not exactitude. Thank
you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:19 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted)
60:23 10:24 12:12 26:25 approximation 35:21 40:5,10
16:7,13 45:2 1:22 area 21:23 24:23 45:1 54:14
allocate 20:14 19:7 argues 38:22 arranges 9:19
allocated 25:15 applies 15:16 37:13,14 arranging 5:17
36:24 allow 18:23 21:22 25:23 14:7 18:3 arrival 32:5
52:16 allowed 23:15 apportionabili... 21:17,20 22:11 54:20
41:23 9:19 18:12 19:6,10 54:22 55:1,15 aspect 43:12
26:6 amount 11:8,8 19:25 20:4,12 8:25 9:18 10:9 asserts 45:16
25:12 47:22 22:17,19 23:7 36:21,22,22 associated 12:22
48:6 55:3 51:12 26:2 45:4,6,7,9 44:11 41:8
analogize 12:17 52:7 54:15,18 29:17 39:13 Assuming 54:15
analysis 56:8 57:5,8 59:1 arrangement 41:9 51:20
11:22 16:6,13 20:16 46:5 36:23 attached 27:8
55:19 59:6 23:10 44:20 7:21 8:1,1 9:1 attribute 16:23
answers 38:4 54:18 60:13 10:8,9 11:4 authority 21:9
best 21:10 36:19 29:23 30:24 60:15,21,22 23:1 25:20
Bestfoods 5:5 50:13,25 54:10 18:21 19:6,8 46:6 48:5 49:2
47:21 binding 53:10 C 56:21 57:15 59:6
bit 11:2 16:9 C 3:1 4:1 26:9 casings 9:9 60:20
21:23 39:14 40:18 56:5,20,23 24:2 25:5 49:1 chooses 16:20
56:14 59:25 capital 60:14 51:19 choosing 54:1
brief 19:4 45:11 car 29:7 38:8 causes 13:24,24 chose 11:9 13:23
34:14 briefs 29:16 carbon 47:19 century 18:19 chosen 27:4
42:5 bring 52:2 49:10 CERCLA 4:14 34:24 50:12
50:12 broader 36:18 careless 43:3 4:15,20 5:2 circuit 8:12
53:5,8 broker 43:2 carrier 16:8,17 8:23 10:17 22:14 25:1,10
57:5 brought 52:7 29:1,7,23 33:9 15:7,10 18:18 26:19 45:14
60:12,18 build 15:3 33:9,22 42:7,9 19:4 23:13,23 56:1,2
41:18 52:4 carry 45:18,20 certain 11:8 21:5 24:6
41:9,12 bulk 10:2 11:2 case 4:4,13,24 22:13 28:2 29:22
16:3 29:2,4 5:24 6:3,15,17 29:12 circumstances
53:5 55:19 14:23 15:10,15 certainty 18:15 cites 19:8 49:13
3:4,6,8,11 59:9 19:4,19 20:1,5 charged 15:10 claims 20:3
18:4 26:15 Burlington 1:3 22:24 25:4 cheaper 11:10 classic 39:4
4:4 26:4 30:7 chemical 5:14 clean 46:25 47:3
14:9 49:5 buyer 30:15,17 44:12 45:15 47:4,13,24 13:16,16
35:12 49:21 52:10 Chief 4:3,11 57:11 59:7
42:3 17:17 41:23 31:19 32:14,16 19:14,16,20 deal 33:14 39:24
58:15 connection 4:17 33:18 34:19 21:19 22:8,12 dealing 53:13
49:13 34:23 43:12,18 44:16 30:18,24 31:6 30:11
52:12 consequences controlled 28:24 31:10 40:14 decline 53:24
14:24 considerable correct 7:7 9:5 56:1,2,6,12 defendant 23:9
20:18 12:2,25 31:22 57:7,16 60:13 24:2,3 49:18
29:1 16:22 35:14 54:12 22:11 23:12 defendants
contaminants 56:12 court's 24:7 48:16,24 53:4
42:7 47:8,20 48:13 cost 22:22 23:6 25:16 56:2 defendants's
49:11 46:25 47:12 create 13:10 49:24
contaminate 48:11,23 49:6 created 58:2 defendant's
53:17 contaminated 51:2 57:2,13 creek 6:6 7:17 defense 35:2
contamination costly 51:9,10 crippling 4:16 defined 12:16
8:13,14 46:16,25 48:19 46:21 47:3,7 21:14 defining 33:19
30:5 48:20,21,25 48:14,21,22,25 cross-reference definition 5:3
32:4,5,9 49:7,25 50:8 50:15 51:14 10:17 12:14 10:6,19 11:20
34:12,22 50:18,23 51:3 54:23 57:10,17 crucial 47:24 38:4
39:3,10 51:7,11,13 60:14,14 48:16 53:19 degree 28:6
58:2 26:12 55:13 culminates degrees 48:7
47:16 count 14:11 cursory 45:12 16:17,20 30:4
contract 4:22 couple 38:7 customers 28:12 11:7,8 33:16
45:11 35:4,8 42:10 6:17 9:22 13:8 10:13 12:8
contractor 6:18 38:21 39:20 damages 18:20 32:22 34:3
44:21 disposition 54:3 else's 36:10 51:7
11:2,6,24 28:10 59:22 driver 6:5 7:16 enabled 24:14
27:2 different 8:4,10 disrupt 13:10 drop 16:3 60:3,4 enacted 53:16
11:15,23 20:15 distinct 37:2 drops 13:13 entail 11:3
30:2,5,11 20:16 28:5 distinction 57:20 60:6 enter 43:7
36:21 38:5 12:20 13:2 drums 30:8 entered 25:5
32:17 47:8 53:3,14 15:22 dry 13:15,15,16 31:1
59:17,18 60:15 distinctions due 26:2 entire 19:4
differently 12:6 40:19,20 dump 37:24 54:16
37:8,8 dinner 28:20 distinguish 39:22 entities 4:17
39:12 direction 55:9 15:23 60:13 dumping 25:2 envelope 27:10
55:11 disagree 49:7 distinguished 25:12 39:5 environment
discarded 9:8 15:4 D-D 10:23 15:9 17:17,23
42:12 59:9 district 10:1 30:12 31:12,17 equitable 51:5
9:5,7 10:17,20 31:10 45:5 4:1 18:3 essentially 18:21
9:2,11 44:1 55:24 56:4,19 30:6,12 estimates 18:21
dispose 5:2,10 57:14 59:10 effect 11:21 et 1:5,8,15 4:5
disposed 26:23 doubt 5:16 35:25 50:21 29:20 39:8
49:22 disposes 40:17 49:8 55:9 51:21
22:3 21:12,25 22:2 45:8 50:20,21 fundamental 42:11
45:18
56:13,13 58:23 46:18 govern 18:11
56:14 30:1 38:1 58:25 fungible 35:24 government
58:5,7,16 44:24 45:8 fires 52:4 further 17:24 13:6 15:5
58:23,25 first 4:4 15:8,11 37:18 19:25 20:1
14:4,17 failed 55:1 fixed 48:13,21 10:3,3 25:2 13:8 20:3
40:3,21 fails 45:17 57:17 60:14 garbage 27:8,13 21:14 45:6
52:3 failure 45:19 flowing 24:18 27:23 32:2 56:14 57:25
fair 19:20 60:6 fluid 13:16 general 2:2 governs 19:6
fall 32:10 focusing 39:15 generated 31:24 47:19 49:10
far 11:17 29:15 following 17:8 getting 11:25,25 ground 5:15,15
37:1 fashion 37:9 foolishly 28:20 8:21 9:4 15:6 24:22
47:14 February 1:18 34:13 58:10,20 46:11 54:21
57:24,25 Fed 29:9 form 42:5 give 5:21 6:21 60:7
51:8 fight 45:25 forward 45:20 go 15:24 23:16 happen 7:9
filed 22:1,2 25:4 24:19 26:3 going 9:23 12:23 happening 44:9
13:13 25:17 30:19 fours 55:9 44:4,24 48:22 22:25 23:8
33:5,11 31:11 51:1 framed 50:22 51:22 55:9 24:1 25:5,15
39:25 52:23 56:2 fully 16:14 good 46:3 46:20 49:23
53:7 6:23 7:15,15 incorrect 24:14 33:2 36:8 14:6,17 15:4,6
56:4 9:22 10:6 incorrectly intended 8:25 15:24 16:5,7
13:23 28:8 55:25 37:1 39:4,20 16:10,12,13,15
30:4 36:5,12 incur 50:16 intending 14:21 17:5,10 18:1,6
59:6 46:21 16:2,24 22:7,15 23:1
39:11,18 independently intentional 27:5,18,21
44:19,22 I 51:19 52:1 36:24 28:4,16 29:5
idea 15:24 indicated 23:23 intentionality 29:14 30:3,13
11:4 ignored 54:5 36:14 37:7 38:10 32:3,8,15 33:6
14:14 imaginary 28:8 indisputable interpretation 33:12 34:1,7
imagine 29:7 24:8 25:17 12:15 34:14,18,25
51:9 52:14,24 53:7 invested 14:18 37:13,21 38:12
implication infer 5:23 16:23 21:8 25:20 41:25 42:13,19
42:10 implied 11:20 27:4 34:23 45:16 49:25 43:17,22 44:13
implies 36:20,25 37:10 54:17 55:1 45:2,22 46:6
40:15 imposed 4:16 insisted 35:7 59:13,21 56:12,18,25
imposing 51:11 37:8 43:20 judge 6:15 9:19 57:6,9,15 58:6
7:7,18,22 17:16 25:21 26:3 judge's 20:24 59:11,25 60:20
12:2 impression 48:15 49:18 jurisdiction Justice's 59:6
14:2 15:11 50:2,13 54:4 52:20 53:23
19:23 improper 41:14 insolvent 25:24 justice 2:3 4:3 K
21:3 improperly 50:4 54:2 4:11 5:12 6:2,8 Kalinouski
22:1 28:13,21 inspection 17:20 6:11,20 7:3,8 59:14
26:1,6 incidental 34:4 instance 6:17 7:10,14,19,20 Kalinowski
33:15 including 53:10 instruction 10:5,11 11:5 49:8
29:5 inconsistent instructions 12:5,10,10,19 1:23 3:3,10 4:8
7:14 25:18 13:10 14:8,15maker 13:14 meaning 5:6,6,7
9:14,17 landfill 5:1 15:7,10,16,20making 13:18 5:8,10 14:12
10:5 10:20 39:5 16:9 17:13 20:20 31:13 meaningful
12:10 59:17 26:19,21 28:3MALCOLM 48:23
41:25 language 4:15 33:23 35:21 2:2 3:7 26:14 means 15:7
55:18,22 5:6 41:5,8,21,22 Management 43:15,20,21,23
large 59:8 42:6 44:5,21 37:23 56:19,25
latest 53:9 52:3,21,21 manual 17:6,9 measured 46:22
15:22 law 5:23 18:11 13:12,15,20 14:20 17:18 merely 37:2
60:15 18:19 24:2 22:17,18 36:3 40:16,22 41:12 44:3
27:2 56:23 60:8,10 light 59:5 41:17 method 27:4
30:5 60:17 line 8:22 13:1 manufacturing 47:20
42:1 44:8 laws 17:17 linear 23:2 8:16 meticulous
13:21 44:8 little 11:1 16:14
21:21 leakage 24:20 27:7 53:9 47:13,23 48:12 27:12 57:11,13
27:22 37:25 38:4,23 local 52:19 49:11 59:14,20 59:7 60:1,2
29:6,9 39:22 50:8 53:23 59:21 millions 27:22
38:8 leaked 30:10 long 5:4 material 8:19 mine 27:7
42:6,8 39:6 longer 38:2 12:17,18 14:20 minute 10:3
53:1 leaking 37:20 look 5:5 19:5 17:7 28:13 minutes 55:14
57:12 38:19 44:3,4 46:2 53:20 30:14 35:18 misdescription
leaks 10:18,20 58:24 materials 9:8 31:4
40:5 16:21 27:3 lose 44:11 20:25 25:14 misused 28:2
28:14 37:10 lot 32:11 40:24 51:25 30:9
10:2 13:7 43:13 59:8 60:4,15 moment 9:2
14:15,16 leaky 11:14 15:3 M 60:16,23 money 18:15
28:1 16:17,21 M 1:23 3:3,10 matters 9:18 morning 4:4
42:4 lease 24:21 25:4 4:8 55:15 MAUREEN motion 22:1,2
43:2 29:6 machine 13:16 1:25 3:5 18:3 22:12 33:24
44:16 leaves 16:16,22 60:2,3 maximum 24:24 35:23 37:7
32:5 24:1 50:15 19:13,23 20:10 13:19 30:22 N 3:1,1 4:1
43:5 54:10 58:13,18 21:3 22:10,21 32:9,15 34:20 nation 15:15
occasion 15:9 31:12 party's 14:16 picture 17:6
offered 20:12,13 penalize 17:18 places 40:23
58:6 oil 1:12 9:9 32:8 page 3:2 4:19 32:11 33:24 plans 5:7
39:1 Okay 33:12 pages 45:4,8 14:22 24:24 26:17
one's 5:25 9:6 31:23 51:10 57:18,19 33:16,23 34:20
23:5 22:18 23:5 24:17,21 50:9 percentage 39:14 40:6,7
22:14 operated 38:9 51:4 50:23 57:1,2 47:24 48:11,14
25:1,10 42:10 parcels 20:20 perchloroethy... 49:16 50:14
45:13 operates 6:17 parcel's 54:25 13:14 55:19 58:5
operations 20:7,8 24:18 permit 18:16 pollute 22:19
operator 7:24 44:6 52:22 18:20,22 23:19
20:7 21:5 42:7,8,18 personnel 42:25 pool 13:12
37:15 54:2 perverse 17:16 posed 7:23
order 32:20 8:25 19:16,21 Petitioner 1:13 54:16
17:2 27:8 46:2 54:9 57:1 Petitioners 1:6 possession 15:18
overwhelming 18:13 22:17 59:12 11:17 16:19
52:14 12:20,22 13:25 PRP 23:16 33:13 36:18 reason 22:22
14:10 15:16,18 PRPs 19:19 38:5,13,21,25 25:13 48:11
16:20,21 17:19 38:9 46:23,24 48:6 49:4 reasonable
29:13 32:6,9 pulls 33:15 54:23 55:3,25 56:11 57:4
25:8 36:15 37:1 pumped 29:3 54:18,20 REBUTTAL
40:16 43:3 47:18,21 questions 17:24 3:9 55:15
products 9:7 pump-and-treat 12:21 15:4 24:13
progression purchaser 15:17 45:5 47:7
50:2 59:9 39:17,21,23 50:9,17,24 refer 5:9 59:12
28:1 property 30:15 41:20 47:25 46:8 51:10 regardless 52:16
56:10 30:16,25 pursued 34:11 55:1 56:8,16 60:9
40:11,19 49:6,11 29:11,18 40:9 rain 24:23 17:22
58:25 57:6 58:18,23 raised 45:12 48:8
45:17 47:14 puts 16:21 rancher 24:1 21:23,24 47:7
27:2 53:3 55:2 57:4 reach 6:13 14:7 release 36:22
provide 32:1 Q reached 58:1 released 24:9
49:20 qualify 13:3 59:19 releases 20:19
37:8,10 provides 4:19 quality 36:1 reaches 9:2 relevant 49:23
42:20 18:13 23:16 quantities 57:23 reading 7:12 50:22 57:23
59:23 60:17 quantity 36:1 reads 44:10 relies 13:6
9:2 40:5,10 41:21 11:23 12:5 29:10,11 36:12 remand 54:16
41:22 23:7 24:7 45:23 48:15,22 55:3 58:6
48:3 responsible 4:20 routine 14:24 seeping 5:15 33:23 34:2,9
54:9 selected 42:17 34:24 35:2,18
48:1,12 18:9 19:5,8 S 3:1 4:1 seller 9:3 43:5 41:25 43:11
49:6,23 23:22 25:22 safe 46:9 55:6,11,12 44:17 45:12
51:2,9 26:7,8 49:13 safely 16:3 sellers 14:24 51:10 56:8,15
52:19,22 53:10 sale 15:16 41:3 16:20 Shell's 6:3,4
54:3 56:9,21 sales 15:9 sends 40:22 Shell-controlled
result 30:5 34:3 20:8 29:16 42:17,25 46:20 11:14
23:15 41:20 59:2 says 19:25 20:11 21:17 44:6,7
32:21 rid 11:25 12:1 26:1,9 27:8 37:7 shipping 9:8,9
45:24 37:2 38:1 29:10 30:23 sets 35:23 shop 16:22
right 23:2 27:14 32:16 33:6 setting 44:18 show 55:20 59:9
29:2 33:4 35:3 38:19 SCALIA 12:4 seven 57:24 55:21
50:7,16 40:9 43:22 30:13,21 31:3 severed 41:19 showing 56:10
52:15 44:13 49:17 31:7,13 37:12 share 25:8 46:16 shows 11:18
60:12 51:15 52:11 43:14,17,22 shares 56:11 side 24:16 46:9
road 40:16 scorched-earth 7:1,3,10,24 8:5 similarly 12:5
3:8 26:15 13:18 14:6 second 28:15,23 11:17 14:18,23 12:12 13:1,25
45:7 23:1 25:20 52:6 53:19 16:8,16,17,20 51:13
51:14 26:12 45:22 56:7 17:6,8,11,21 single 19:3,9
54:23 46:6 48:5 49:2 section 4:15 22:5 26:22,22 58:2 59:14,20
13:8 56:18,25 57:9 26:10 29:1,1,16,22 site 10:2 17:12
24:4 60:20 see 14:1 32:16 30:4,11 31:7 20:15 21:23
51:18,23 rough 18:21 40:6,8 43:4,9 31:16 32:16,18 situation 7:9
36:13 30:19 31:11 6:22 8:24 substance 14:14 supposed 9:15
50:3 54:8 37:19 38:18 10:16 14:13 16:1 57:21 Supreme 1:1,20
11:1 13:4,22 steps 44:22 44:22 41:6,10
59:8 30:25 34:22 take 5:1 14:25
36:9 31:4 34:4,7 27:15,19,25 sufficient 5:21 53:2,24
43:7 28:10,23 29:12 28:3 32:13 takes 44:22 60:9
15:18 16:9 31:6,10,14,22 52:1 58:16
37:20 35:14,16,20 suggestion 14:3 tank 11:3 16:4
51:3,11 10:10,14,18,20 39:2,8 40:13 3:3,10 4:7,8,11 55:20
10:21 11:18 41:4 42:3,16 5:19 6:8,13,25 telling 17:18
11:19 14:4,16 17:21 43:16,19 44:10 8:3,9 9:4,17,25 tells 39:25
32:15 24:20 27:3 44:14 45:10 10:7,16 11:12 ten 57:24
34:1,7 28:14 30:1,6 46:4,11 47:6 12:2,10,25
43:13 47:11 48:10 14:2,9 15:14 tender 17:2
36:16 stage 56:8,22 49:5,16 50:5 16:5,10,15
38:12
standards 18:11 53:1,12 54:12 36:19 55:5,14 38:16,17 39:1
42:13,19 19:2,7 23:22 54:21 55:8,24 55:15,18,22 44:11
start 18:8 23:3,4 storage 11:3 56:20 57:3,15 terms 20:5
state 53:15 35:9,12 supermarket terribly 17:15
1:20 4:6 5:5 14:25 57:12 support 12:15 testimony 49:8
32:10 43:8 submitted 60:21 22:7 29:7 Thank 18:1
24:12 30:14 21:4,13,19 understood volume 47:10,10
threat 46:23,24 truck 6:3,4,15 52:15 W
throw 5:11 13:23 14:25 22:24 waiver 20:3
26:22 27:13 15:3 29:3 unfair 22:4 51:6 22:11,14 45:11
43:4 thrust 51:6 30:15,17 31:1 United 1:1,8,15 45:19
27:7 17:25 18:18 35:9 39:5,20 8:11 19:1 22:9 44:8 48:7
41:7,11 21:17,24 30:7 42:7,9,25 32:10 43:8 58:24
60:1 31:1,12,17,18 truckers 6:18 unloaded 30:17 wanted 10:12
53:21 47:16 59:5 trucks 29:8 33:21 Washington
told 17:6 true 31:23 38:24 use 10:25 11:21
37:6,22 28:1 55:4 29:9 35:8,16
8:15
39:8
toxic 59:16 29:14 39:16 41:17 9:9,11,12,14
41:4,20 transaction Tuesday 1:18 42:7 9:16,24 10:6,8
43:8 14:19 44:15 turned 33:16 useful 10:22,24
44:1
46:4,5 21:18 twice 57:21 13:2 14:10
12:7,8,9
48:10
49:8 17:1,1,3 30:11 17:10 20:19 16:20 26:20,23 12:21,22,24
51:18 36:21 37:16 22:11 24:22 40:16,20 55:10 13:5 14:11,12
53:1,4 38:6 39:1 28:10 46:12 uses 29:6 42:7,9
16:16
29:23 54:13 57:20 37:2,23 39:3
26:8 transportation variety 52:19 47:18,21 48:2
52:9,12 42:1 U 53:23 57:22 59:19
53:20 transporter UCC 17:2 varying 48:6 waters 43:8
32:4,5 34:8 ultimate 39:13 vehicle 39:11 way 12:11 16:21
15:17 39:18,20,21 46:20 49:22 vessel 40:1 32:17,23 33:19
44:19,20,23 ultimately 40:17 victims 23:18 35:11 37:24
treat 10:22 48:2 unaccounted 45:15 46:15 40:2 41:14
12:4 treated 14:12,13 undeniably violate 41:6,10 45:12 46:1,22
17:5 47:19 31:16 violated 29:25 48:8,23 50:20
22:4 treatment 47:25
24:12
07-1607 1:14,24 288 59:13,21
37:13 1 50:3 36 25:3
10 45:25 48:19 36-A 56:3
1:21 4:2
107(a)(2) 6:10 42 12:15
4:18 6:9 7:12 5
9:18 16:18 5 9:16 10:14
57:10 123,000 10:4 52 22:2
6:13 1318 58:24 6
25:13 15 25:4 6 46:8
32:19 16 19:23 20:2 60 51:9
21:5 6903(3) 12:16
4:19
25:3,12
17:11,20
25:3,4 1980 18:18 840(e) 19:5
1999 21:18 23:24
9
45:8 50:6,11 9 24:24 46:9,17
59:17 99 50:4
24 1:18
20:17
