IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
KEITH HAYWOOD, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-10374
CURTIS DROWN, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, December 3, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JASON E. MURTAGH, ESQ., Philadelphia, Penn.; on behalf
of the Petitioner.
BARBARA D. UNDERWOOD, ESQ., Solicitor General, New York,
N.Y.; on behalf of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JASON E. MURTAGH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
BARBARA D. UNDERWOOD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JASON E. MURTAGH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 07-10374, Haywood v. Drown.
Mr. Murtagh.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JASON E. MURTAGH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MURTAGH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In a 4-3 decision, the New York Court of
Appeals affirmed Correction Law Section 24, which
prohibits Petitioner from bringing a Section 1983 claim
for money damages in any court of the State of New York.
Instead, that statute relegates Mr. Haywood
and anyone else seeking money damages under section 1983
to either bring their case in Federal court or to accept
what the New York legislature has deemed a State law
alternative. That State law alternative does not allow
Mr. Haywood to sue the prison guards who violated his
civil rights; instead he can only sue the State. It
provides for no punitive damages, it provides for no
attorneys' fees; a shortened 90-day notice of claim
provision, 30 days shorter than what this Court found
violative in Felder; and provides for no right to jury
trial.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It does provide for a
waiver of sovereign immunity and says that the State
will respond in damages. It might be -- I'm not sure --
that many prisoners would prefer this. They have got a
solvent -- I hope they're solvent -- defendant.
(Laughter.)
MR. MURTAGH: Your Honor, it is true that
the State has waived sovereign immunity for claims
brought in the Court of Claims under that State law.
But, Your Honor, they haven't waived sovereign immunity
for punitive damages or for attorneys' fees, both of
which are remedies that are specifically available to
Petitioners, to plaintiffs, in section 1983 actions.
This State law alternative, even if it
didn't independently violate the supremacy clause by
substituting New York's judgment for that of Congress,
would not actually be a real alternative for Mr. Haywood
or for anyone else who wanted to bring a suit against
prison officials.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, we can just mark
that place in the record. It -- it does seem to me that
there is some real benefits to the prisoners under --
under the New York scheme. It's -- many counsel may
think it's preferable than to sue under 1983.
MR. MURTAGH: Your Honor -- Your Honor,
there may be -- reasonable minds I think could differ, I
think, about whether it's preferable to have the State
as a solvent entity or the -- or the prison employee as
a defendant. But I think there's two important points
on that.
Number one, in their briefing, the
Respondents have argued that they will indemnify State
employees regardless of where the case is brought. If
the State has already agreed to provide indemnification,
then you don't need the State as a defendant simply to
be solvent. The State has already --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, except in --
they said except in cases where the guards are acting
outside the scope of their employment.
MR. MURTAGH: Yes, Your Honor. Under
Correction Law Section 24, if the guard is acting
outside the scope of the employment, then the case can
be brought in New York's courts of general jurisdiction.
The important point here, Your Honors, is
there are two separate related reasons that this law is
unconstitutional. The first is because New York's
legislature has redefined the remedies available under
section 1983, they have, in effect, substituted their
judgment about what constitutes good policy for
Congress's judgment.
In this particular case, Mr. Haywood or any
other plaintiff in New York State, could bring a section
1983 claim in State court, but only if he agrees to give
up his right to seek money damages.
Congress determined, in setting forth the
purpose and the effect of section 1983, that plaintiffs
ought to be entitled to both money damages and equitable
damages.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He can still get that in
Federal court, can't he?
MR. MURTAGH: Your Honor, it's --
Justice Scalia it's absolutely true that Mr. Haywood
could bring his case in Federal court and would be
entitled to all the remedies available under section
1983 had he brought it in Federal court. But that issue
is not dispositive in this case. And the reason it's
not dispositive is that in the whole line of cases that
this Court has considered where it has required States
to hear actions as long as they hear similar or
analogous actions, a Federal forum was available in each
of those cases as well.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess there's a
difference. I mean, obviously Felder is significant
help to you. But I suppose it's a difference to say
they've redefined the cause of action under Federal law
and said they are just not going to hear it at all. It
may seem paradoxical, but the latter may be from a
constitutional point of view the sounder
characterization, because it's obviously not the
responsibility or the authority of States to say, well,
this is how the Federal law is going to be applied.
But it might be their -- their -- within
their authority to say, look, this is what our State
court system provides and if you don't like it for a
Federal claim, you have always got the Federal courts.
MR. MURTAGH: Your Honor, under this Court's
decisions not only in Felder but going back to Martinez,
this Court has said that -- that it hasn't decided
whether a State is required to create a court to hear
Federal claims. And I don't think the Court needs to
reach that issue in this case, because New York has
already established courts of general jurisdiction, its
supreme court, the trial level court, that are competent
to hear these cases.
These courts regularly hear common law tort
cases, they regularly hear section 1983 --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah, but `they are
not really or at least you can view it as they are not
discriminating against the Federal cause of action,
because they don't allow the State cause of action of
the sort you want to pursue either.
MR. MURTAGH: Your Honor, that seems to be
the crux of the Respondents' argument. And I think the
fundamental problem with that argument is that, although
New York specifically exempts prison -- cases against
prison officials, that's not enough. And the reason
it's not enough is that if you can merely invoke the
word "jurisdiction," as this Court pointed out in
Howlett, the mere -- the force of the Supremacy Clause
is not so weak that it can be evaded by the mere mention
of the word "jurisdiction."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's --
that's true. And Howlett does say that. But as we've
pointed out on many occasions, "jurisdiction" is a term
that covers a lot of different things. And at some
point something starts to look jurisdictional, which is,
look, we're not going to hear your case at all. In
other areas, even if they call it jurisdictional, it
really doesn't seem that way, such as, well, you've got
to give this much notice or you've got to -- you know,
maybe those things aren't really jurisdictional. But
saying you can't bring the case at all strikes me as
really jurisdictional.
MR. MURTAGH: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, I
think there are a couple of points on that. The first
is that in the cases where this Court has found that
there was a neutral jurisdictional rule, Herb v.
Pitcairn, Douglas, Mayfield, and then later in
Johnson v. Frankell, in every single one of those cases
the underlying rule of jurisdiction did not speak to the
identity of the parties and did not address the
underlying substance of the claim. Those were rules
that simply talked about how a case could move through
the courts.
For example, in Douglas neither party was a
resident of the State of New York and the New York court
said: If you're not residents, you can't come in and
use our courts.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not how it moves
through the courts. That is, you don't have a forum.
That sounds to me like a jurisdictional ruling. Those
cases that say, our courts don't sit to hear cases where
the parties are nonresidents, both sides; our courts
don't sit to hear cases about accidents that happened in
Timbuktu, those sound like, we don't offer a forum for
that type of case, as distinguished from here, where New
York does have a forum, it just won't kind of give one
kind of relief.
MR. MURTAGH: Justice Ginsburg, I think -- I
think that that is exactly right. The point here is
that in -- in -- in Douglas, where the court did not --
where the New York courts did not allow any party --
where both parties were nonresidents of New York they
wouldn't hear the case, that applied regardless of the
identity of the employee. It didn't matter whether the
defendant was an employee of the State of New York or
not.
And it also applied regardless of what the
underlying substantive claim was. It didn't matter
whether it was a tort action or a contract action or
anything else. If you weren't in New York, if you
weren't a resident of New York, you couldn't take
advantage of its -- of its courts.
And in -- in Herb v. Pitcairn, where you had
the situation where there was a -- there was a railroad
accident brought in one county court in Illinois, it
should have been brought in a different county court,
the Court went -- went out of its way to say the State
of Illinois has provided other forums, other State
courts where you could have brought this case.
And if the State, for example, in the
present case had said, Mr. Haywood, you filed this case
in Wyoming County Supreme Court and it really should
have been brought down in Syracuse, that would be a
neutral rule of jurisdiction. It just dictates where
the case ought to be brought.
By contrast, what New York has done here is
that they have absolutely forbidden anyone to seek money
damages against a prison official. And the reason that
they did that, as conceded in the Respondents' briefing,
is because they don't want prison officials to be
distracted from their duties. They don't want prison
officials to have to face the fear of vexatious
lawsuits.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the -- the New
York legislature said, you have a choice, you can bring
a 1983 suit or you can bring this sort of suit against
the State, and the State will respond to damages, but
you can't do both. Can they do that?
MR. MURTAGH: No, Your Honor, I don't think
they could. Once the State -- this Court's
jurisprudence teaches us that once a court -- once a
State opens its courts to hear analogous State law
claims, it cannot then close its doors selectively to
Federal claims.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What Justice Kennedy has
asked you: Say, you could have this Federal claim, but
we are going to offer you a substitute under New York
law, which the Federal authority could not force us to
do, because it's a State waiving its sovereign immunity.
MR. MURTAGH: I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg;
certainly the State of New York could offer a State law
alternative in addition to section 1983.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no, I said in the
alternative.
MR. MURTAGH: Okay. I don't believe,
Justice Kennedy, that -- that New York could force a
plaintiff to give up the right to sue section -- sue
under section 1983 if the courts are otherwise open to
tort actions in similar circumstances.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Now, suppose
they do it -- they say -- we are just talking about the
State courts: you can't bring both types in State
courts. You can still have your Federal cause of action
in the Federal court, and we will also give our cause of
action where the State's law is violated, but not both
in the New York courts.
MR. MURTAGH: No, Justice Kennedy. Once --
once New York establishes courts of general jurisdiction
that are competent to hear these kinds of cases, it
can't close its doors to section 1983 claims for money
damages.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's okay for the State
to say, we don't want any tort actions in our courts?
That would be all right?
MR. MURTAGH: Yes, Justice Scalia. It
seems --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's strange. Why -- but
it can't do the lesser thing of saying, we don't want
this particular type of tort action. One is
jurisdictional -- you would say it's jurisdictional,
right? And this one is not jurisdictional, just because
it's narrower? It's still directed to the type of
action.
MR. MURTAGH: Justice Scalia, I think the
distinction is -- relates to the relative power of
Congress and the States. Once Congress has spoken and
has provided a Federal cause of action, that becomes New
York law. And New York, as long as it has a court, is
required to enforce that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but not if New York
said, we don't want any tort actions. What about if New
York says, we don't want any -- uh -- personal injury
tort actions? Would that be enough, or is that too
narrow? And I'm going to narrow it down after that
until I get down to your case.
(Laughter.)
MR. MURTAGH: Justice Scalia, I -- I am not
sure exactly where the line is in terms of the analogy.
I think this case is very far on the other side. In
other words, because New York State here -- even here, a
section 1983 claim, this isn't a situation where they
say, we have a court that's not competent to hear
section 1983 claims. They simply say: We're not going
to allow them to hear section 1983 claims for money
damages where there is a prison official who's -- who is
the defendant.
If the defendant here, Justice Scalia, were
a police officer who had engaged in the same conduct,
New York State courts would have to hear that case. So
this is not the sort of thing --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that. I just
don't understand -- you acknowledge it's okay if it's
jurisdictional; and you acknowledge that it is
jurisdictional if you don't allow any tort actions. I
just don't know what makes this to be
non-jurisdictional. I don't know.
MR. MURTAGH: I think it -- intellectually,
Justice Scalia, it seems to me that the distinction is
that -- that there has to be a point at which you do
respect the relative authority of the State and the
Federal Governments. By saying that a State may -- we
are not going to require that a State establish a court
to hear a whole kind of action that they otherwise
wouldn't hear, that's providing some deference to the
authority of the State, as the Respondents point out,
part of the core sovereignty of the State, to establish
their courts and to run their courts.
By contrast, once they have done that, once
they provided that court system, then the power balance
shifts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if this were at
the beginning of whenever New York was establishing a
court system, and they said from the outset, look, we
are not going to hear these types of cases, then this
would be okay?
MR. MURTAGH: Your Honor, I think under this
Court's jurisprudence that would -- if the State of New
York said we are not going to hear any kind of tort
action, regardless of whether it's Federal or State, and
it doesn't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, that's
mixing the two points. Your point I understand it --
MR. MURTAGH: Okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- is that once the
court has opened it up to a particular type of claim,
they can't say, say no more. So if they are setting
up -- obviously we are not going to go back to whenever
the New York State courts was established. But if they
suddenly said, we are going to revise our court system
or - or modernize it, and from now on we are not going
to do this?
MR. MURTAGH: As long as -- as long as the
withdrawal of jurisdiction was across all analogous
State law claims as well as the Federal claim, then,
yes. I mean, we could discuss whether that would be a
good idea or not, but I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, we would discuss what
is analogous.
MR. MURTAGH: Yes, and that's -- that's a
very good point, Justice Scalia; and this Court has told
us as litigants what it thinks are analogous claims. In
Felder, this Court said an analogous claim for purposes
of section 1983 is a common law tort. That's the thing
that's most like a section 1983 claim. So the real
question here is does New York State provide courts that
can hear common law tort claims? There is no dispute in
this case that they do.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Now, why can't New York
take the position, we want to be realistic about these
suits? New York has provided that it is going to --
it's going to pick up the tab. If you sue a
correctional officer, New York is going to pick up the
tab.
So -- so we are going to channel this suit
to the court, the one court in the State that deals with
the State, the sovereign, paying money, the court of
claims. So all they are doing is recognizing the
reality that this is a suit against New York, not the
correctional officer because it won't cost the
correctional officer a dime; New York is going to
provide counsel and is going to pay any judgment.
So really where this case belongs is in the
court that hears claims against the State of New York.
MR. MURTAGH: Justice Ginsburg, the problem
with that analysis, I think, is that in the court of
claims there are all sorts of other limitations.
This -- this notion that this is simply a
substitute claim and that it's just as good enough, I
think really is a red herring in this case; because what
has happened here is not that New York has created a
separate court with specialized expertise that knows how
to try these cases, which it probably could do under
this Court's jurisprudence. Rather, what it has done is
it's required you to sue the State instead of the
individual, and then put a whole host of limitations on
the sort of relief that you can seek, and on the way
that you can bring your case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's done exactly
what the Federal system has done. So that if you have a
money claim against -- that is going to be against the
Federal Government, here's what you do: You go to the
Court of Claims, you have to go to the Court of Claims;
and in that court all sorts of special rules apply about
notice and other things.
MR. MURTAGH: And that is absolutely true,
Justice Roberts, if the claim initially were a claim
against the State. But of course section 1983 doesn't
provide for a claim against the State. In Will v.
Michigan this Court held that the State is not a person
for purposes of section 1983, and so the only way you
can have a section 1983 claim --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but in the
Federal system if you sue a Federal official or a
postman and in fact in reality it's going to be a claim
against the United States, that has to go to the Court
of Claims, too.
MR. MURTAGH: And Your Honor, that is
absolutely something that Congress can decide to do with
respect to Federal law, and New York can decide with
respect to State law to do whatever it wants in terms of
setting up where those claims can go.
What New York cannot do is to impose that
policy judgment on the Federal claim, because Congress
has already determined --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess my point is
that there's nothing fishy about what New York has done
here. Which leads me to think, well, maybe it's not
really discrimination against the Federal claim, it's a
rational way to handle claims against the State
treasury, just as the Federal system is a rational way
to handle claims against the Federal treasury.
MR. MURTAGH: Regardless of how rational an
idea this is or how good an idea this is, for this Court
to adopt a rule that says that once a State disagrees
with Congress about how people ought to be liable under
a Federal remedy would require this Court in essence to
say that the rationale of several of your previous cases
could be undone. And I think this Court pointed out in
Howlett that if all you had to do was say, our courts
won't have jurisdiction over a certain category of
claims that -- the Wisconsin legislature in Felder could
have said: Our courts shall have no jurisdiction unless
there is 120-day notice of claim provided.
The courts in Martinez in California -- the
California legislature could have said, our State courts
will have no jurisdiction --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that just goes
back to our previous colloquy about what jurisdiction is
and what it means. I mean, are you saying that if we
look at this and we decide yes, this does really look
like jurisdiction in the real sense, rather than just a
jurisdictional label -- if we do that, then you lose?
MR. MURTAGH: I think that if this Court
found that this were a jurisdiction -- a neutral rule of
jurisdiction that constituted a valid excuse, that, yes,
that would probably -- that would probably undermine my
argument significantly.
I think to get there, Chief Justice, you
would have to -- you would have to sort of engage in
some interesting thinking which I haven't gotten my mind
around, to be quite honest. The -- what this Court said
in Howlett is, when we talk about jurisdiction, when we
talk about what constitutes jurisdiction, we are talking
about whether there is power over the subject matter and
power over the parties involved. And I don't think the
Respondents in this case even argue that the New York
supreme courts don't have the power over the parties
here or don't have competence over this kind of subject
matter.
This case doesn't have any of the
attributes, this rule, this correctional law section 24,
doesn't have any of the attributes of a neutral
procedural rule --
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't jurisdiction whatever
the legislature says it is? Do you think there is some
sort of -- you know, a Platonic ideal of jurisdiction
versus non-jurisdiction, and that's what we apply here?
MR. MURTAGH: Justice Alito, I think that
jurisdiction -- that to determine whether a rule is
jurisdictional requires that this Court look at the
purpose and the effect of the underlying statute. And
if all a State has to do is say it's jurisdictional and
if jurisdiction is whatever the State says it is, then
that means that, going back to Felder and Martinez and
some of those cases, a State could -- could evade this
Court's rulings merely by reframing the statutes in the
words of jurisdiction.
JUSTICE ALITO: So what is the -- what is
the standard for determining whether it's jurisdictional
or not?
MR. MURTAGH: Well, Justice Alito, the --
the important points, I think, come out of Felder: That
it is a neutral rule that is applicable to all cases and
that is not concerned with the underlying substance of
the claim. So, for example, when we go back to the old
cases, Douglas, Mayfield, Herb v. Pitcairn, this Court
was looking at situations where there were rules that
applied everywhere.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you have acknowledged
that it would be okay and would be a jurisdictional rule
if the court -- if the State courts did not entertain
tort actions. That's a rule that goes to the substance
of the claim, isn't it?
MR. MURTAGH: Well, Your Honor, it goes to
the substance of the claim, but it applies generally
across all claims. It's not -- it's not picking and
choosing. It's not targeted towards a specific --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, it's picking and
choosing tort claims.
MR. MURTAGH: Well, it's picking and
choosing tort claims as opposed, I suppose, to contract
claims.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. MURTAGH: But it's not, Your Honor,
saying: We're going to accept this kind of tort claim
but not that kind of tort claim. We're going to allow
to you sue a police officer who beats you up, but you
can't sue a corrections officer who beats you up.
That's the real difference, I think.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there something you add
-- you add to your statement of your rule? A neutral
rule not related to substance, but related to the
administration of the courts?
MR. MURTAGH: Yes, Justice Breyer. I think
that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Don't just be agreeable to
be agreeable. Do cases actually say that?
MR. MURTAGH: I think, Your Honor -- I'd
have to get the exact language from Felder, but I think
that it is a neutral rule regarding the administration
of the courts that is unrelated to the underlying
substance of the matter or the nature of the parties.
Your Honors, the most recent -- going on a
little bit about this jurisdictional issue -- the most
recent case that held that there was a neutral rule of
judicial administration, a neutral procedural rule, was
Johnson v. Fankell. And this Court will recall that, in
that case, Idaho had a rule that required that there be
a final judgment before an intermediate -- before an
appeal could be taken from that.
This Court allowed Idaho to impose that rule
on a section 1983 claim because the defendants there had
argued that they were entitled to qualified immunity.
They lost at the trial level. They then sought an
interlocutory appeal. And this Court said certainly
Idaho can set forth the ways in which you take appeal
from any kind of a case, and, more importantly, this is
not a rule that is targeted at civil rights claims and
in fact may lead to over-enforcement of civil rights
claims because it prevents a defendant from getting out
of the case very early.
That's the kind of case where there's a
neutral rule. That's not what we have here.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You are being generous
when you said that we would recall -- at least that I
would recall the case. Is it Idaho, did you say, or
Johnson?
MR. MURTAGH: In Johnson v. Fankell, I
believe --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It was Johnson. I thought
you said Idaho.
MR. MURTAGH: Yes. I'm sorry, Your Honor.
I just said that the Idaho courts were involved in that
one.
Your Honor, the approach that's urged by the
Respondents in this -- in this case really would dictate
different results, as I mentioned. You'd wind up -- in
Felder and in Martinez, the courts could just use the
word "jurisdiction." And actually, even if you go back
to three of this Court's earlier cases, Mondou in 1912,
McKnett in 1934, Testa v. Katt in 1947 -- in Testa v.
Katt, this Court required Connecticut to hear an
Emergency Price Control Act even though Connecticut
regularly refused to hear cases that they thought were
penal in nature. And what this Court said was: You
hear analogous claims; you have to hear the Emergency
Price Control Act.
Now, if this Court were to adopt a rule that
the State could simply say, we have no jurisdiction over
certain categories of claims, then in Testa, Connecticut
could simply have said: We are not going to have
jurisdiction over any case seeking penal or punitive
types of damages. That would require that we really
undo a lot of this Court's jurisprudence.
If there are no further questions at this
point, I would reserve my time, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Murtagh.
Ms. Underwood.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BARBARA D. UNDERWOOD
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MS. UNDERWOOD: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
The Federal Constitution permits State
courts to hear Federal claims, but it does not require a
State to hear them so long as the State does not
discriminate against Federal claims in comparison with
similar State claims.
New York's statute fully satisfies that
requirement. New York courts cannot hear damage actions
against prison officials for conduct in the scope of
their employment. And it doesn't matter whether State
or Federal law is the basis for the claim.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Ms. Underwood, if that's
going to be the criterion, that they exclude a State
cause of action as readily as they exclude a Federal
cause of action, then isn't the State always going to
win every case in which there is an issue like this one?
Because unless the State is so blatantly discriminatory
or so blatantly inadvertent as to leave a cause of
action of its own making on the books, when it says, "We
won't hear the Federal one," what you posit is always
going to be the case. And if that's -- if the rule is
that as long as there is no State action comparable to
the Federal action that is disallowed, the State wins,
in practical terms the State always wins.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, that's not so. This
Court has in fact invalidated statutes and found
discrimination. There were -- three of the early FELA
-- two FELA cases and the Testa case itself. In Testa,
contrary to what was just suggested, the Court -- this
Court found discrimination. When Rhode Island said that
it wasn't going to hear the emergency price control
penal statute --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose a State
extends --
MS. UNDERWOOD: -- the Court --
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose a State extends
sovereign immunity to a broad class of State employees
with reference to State law claims. Would that mean
that the State could close its courts to all 1983
actions --
MS. UNDERWOOD: No. Immunity --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- against those same
defendants?
MS. UNDERWOOD: No. Immunity and
jurisdiction are really quite different. They both have
the result that the defendant loses.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what if they phrase it
in terms of jurisdiction? There is no jurisdiction in
courts of New York to hear any intentional tort action
against a correctional official for action taken during
the performance of the correctional officer's duties.
Do they then close the New York courts completely to
1983 actions against correctional officials?
MS. UNDERWOOD: If they not only used the
word "jurisdiction" but gave the rule jurisdictional
effect -- that is to say, a jurisdictional bar is one
that can't be waived by the defendants, whereas immunity
can be waived. So it protects courts, not defendants.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Underwood, there is a
feature of this case, even assuming that you were right
about -- New York has not withdrawn jurisdiction from
its courts over a 1983 claim; it has simply limited,
taken away, one mode of relief. That is, you can sue a
correctional official for declaratory relief, you could
sue for injunctive relief. All New York has taken away
is one mode of relief. That's not jurisdictional unless
you say that every element of damages is jurisdictional.
New York allows this type of claim in their
courts. We are talking about jurisdiction over the
person? Yes, they have jurisdiction over the
correctional official's person. Subject matter --
subject matter is a 1983 case? Yes. All they are
cutting off is one form of relief.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, it's not just any form
of relief. It's not just, for instance, the type of
damages. The difference between law and equity has a
long tradition in this country. They are really two
different actions, an action for injunctive relief or an
action for damages. The courts now hear them together.
But what New York has said is it has no jurisdiction --
its courts have no jurisdiction against -- over damage
actions against corrections officials.
And as I was saying earlier, jurisdiction is
different from immunity, both because it can't be waived
-- so it's about courts, not the defendants -- because
it -- because a dismissal won't bar litigating the
matter in Federal court. A dismissal -- an immunity
would result in a judgment --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Practically --
practically, hasn't what New York has done is to confer
on its correctional officers absolute immunity, not
merely qualified immunity? So if you want to be
realistic about what is the effect of New York's law, it
says you are going to be subject to equitable relief,
declaratory relief, but as far as money is concerned,
you are absolutely immune.
MS. UNDERWOOD: I don't think it's immunity.
I think it's a refusal to hear the case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What's the difference
of -- practically?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Practically --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't the -- isn't the
practical effect -- if you tried to explain to
correctional officers what is your exposure, you would
say: You have absolute immunity from anything that's
going to try to reach into your pocket.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Not at all. This is like a
forced removal, is what it really is.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They're -- they are liable
in Federal court.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Yes, that's exactly correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They're certainly not
immune in Federal court.
MS. UNDERWOOD: They are fully liable in
Federal court. That's where these cases are being
brought right now. Congress has never expressed any
policy for mandating that they be brought in State
court, because even if these cases could have been
brought in the first place in State courts, the Federal
-- the State defendant could remove it to Federal court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the theory was
that in our Federal system, Federal law is State law,
too? That is the highest law for a State. Federal law
by virtue of the Supremacy Clause is State law; and
sometimes Congress creates an exclusive Federal
jurisdiction over certain types of claims. But if
Congress doesn't do that, the assumption is there is
concurrent jurisdiction.
MS. UNDERWOOD: That's correct. But that's
if the Court is open to the case. The Fender case, the
line of cases that Petitioner has been pointing to, is
simply not applicable here where the State opens its
courts to the cases. If the State were hearing damage
actions against corrections officers, it couldn't give
them immunity.
JUSTICE BREYER: But what is the neutral
reason related to the administration of courts that
leads the State to close its door to a damage suit under
1983 against correctional officers?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- taking as the assumption
exactly what Justice Ginsburg said. I mean, I can't
find any reason that's neutral and administrative other
than what Justice Ginsburg said, which is neither:
namely New York does not like 1983 actions for damages
against correctional officers. What other reason is
there?
MS. UNDERWOOD: First of all, these -- this
-- I would like to correct an observation. This -- this
is not aimed only or even principally at 1983 actions.
This law does predate the -- not the enactment of 1983,
but the proliferation, the use -- the widespread use of
1983; and in fact it affects a great many State cases.
It's not only --
JUSTICE BREYER: But Testa v Katt was a case
in which the Court found that the State allows some
State action that are analogous to the Federal action
and you can't discriminate against a Federal action.
MS. UNDERWOOD: That's true.
JUSTICE BREYER: This is not that case.
This is a case where the State doesn't allow -- doesn't
allow -- damage actions like the Federal action --
MS. UNDERWOOD: If --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and this Court has not
decided to my knowledge how we apply the basic rule in
such a situation. So I would think that the way we
would apply it is take the standard and ask the State,
what is the neutral administrative-related reason?
Because what they are saying is, if you look at this,
from an administrative point of view, it's that
red-haired, one-eyed man with a limp.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Prisons are large
institutions in rural counties that generate a vast
amount of litigation. This particular prisoner was in a
prison in a rural county like Wyoming County that had I
think 3,000 or so prisoners in it, and the litigation
generated by the prisons isn't just actions by
prisoners. This statute doesn't apply only to actions
against -- by prisoners. It also applies to actions by
prison employees against other prison employees --
actions by anybody against a -- corrections officials.
So it's all the vast forms of litigation, principally
but not exclusively prisoner complaints, that arise out
of prisons.
That is a very large and burdensome amount
of litigation, unlike litigation against State police,
which some have said is comparable, which is dispersed
all over the State. This is concentrated where the
large prisons are; and it is a reasonable decision -- a
neutral reason, if you will -- for the State to decide
to take those actions out of the courts of general
jurisdiction, to take actions -- damage actions arising
out of the prisons out of the courts of general
jurisdiction, where it would be concentrated in a few
counties where the large prisons are.
JUSTICE SCALIA: General Underwood, your
friend on the other side acknowledges that if New York
states closed its courts to tort actions, that would be
okay. But I don't see how closing your courts to tort
actions has any administrative -- particular
administrative rationale behind it, do you?
MS. UNDERWOOD: No, and I don't believe that
this Court's cases about jurisdiction, as distinguished
from its cases about case handling rules, require that
kind of neutral administrative feature.
I only was suggesting that there exists such
an explanation for this rule; but in fact, this Court
has treated quite differently cases about case handling,
and that makes sense. Because if you hear a claim -- if
the State hear a claim and then impose even a
nondiscriminatory -- but it's certainly a discriminatory
rule that tends to defeat the claim, the State might
induce plaintiffs to bring their claims in State court
and then lose them under disadvantageous procedures.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose that the State of
New York said that in suits against corrections --
against the corrections department, against the State,
there should be no damages awarded to a prisoner in
excess of $3,000; and then the --
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- and then 1980 -- and
then the prisoner tries to bring a 1983 suit in State
court.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would the case -- would
the analysis be just the same?
MS. UNDERWOOD: No, I don't think the
analysis would be the same. I think once the State
opens its doors to a damage action against corrections
officials, the question would be -- the answer might or
might not come out the same way, but I think it probably
would come out differently.
The -- the question would be, does that
procedural rule -- there are two questions: Is it
discriminatory? You're saying -- your hypothetical is
that it's not discriminatory as between State and
Federal, and the second question would be does it
undermine the Federal cause -- does it undermine the
Federal claim?
And so in Martinez, when this Court said
State immunities can't apply to Federal 1983 actions,
only Federal immunities can apply, the Court was careful
to observe that California had opened its courts to this
case and had an immunity, whereas --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In my hypothetical, do you
think it undermines the Federal claims?
MS. UNDERWOOD: No. I think it could be
argued, I think it would be argued that limiting damages
undermines a Federal action that is meant to bar courts
from interpretation --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But why can't it be argued
here that Congress has an important mechanism in holding
prison officials -- prison correctional officers --
personally liable, so that they are themselves aware
that they have a constitutional obligation that is
enforceable against them, and New York has taken this
away?
Now you may -- we may argue that if the
State responds in damages, the prisoner is better off;
but Congress has not made that judgment. Congress has
made the judgment that the correctional officer himself
or herself should be responsible.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, I don't believe
Congress has made that judgment. So that I -- and
that's my answer to why I don't think this undermines
the Federal cause --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, it has made that
judgment. That's the whole purpose of 1983.
MS. UNDERWOOD: No, the purpose of 1983 is
to -- actually was two things. It's to provide a
Federal forum and it was to provide compensation for
these torts, and I believe that these --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He's still responsible,
right? I mean --
MS. UNDERWOOD: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He's still responsible.
MS. UNDERWOOD: I think there is no Federal
policy --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, the correctional
officer, under the scheme we are talking about, is not
responsible in damages.
MS. UNDERWOOD: He is responsible to exactly
the same degree as he would be, were he sued personally,
because New York indemnifies him and there is no
requirement -- Congress has never shown any objection to
indemnification.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- does your case turn
on whether or not there is an indemnification agreement?
MS. UNDERWOOD: I don't know that our case
turns on whether --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I shouldn't think so.
That hasn't been your argument so far.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, what I'm saying is to
the extent -- I don't believe we need to -- if you think
that we need to -- that there may be a conflict with a
Federal policy, I think the statute stands because it's
nondiscriminatory and jurisdictional. But if there is a
question, it's not a question of whether -- yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Just you ask an offshoot
of Justice Kennedy's question. Supposing you had a
statute that said in railroad cases there should be no
damage -- railroad tort cases, brought by employees of
railroads, there was no damage judgment in excess of
$10,000, in State court? Would that be okay?
MS. UNDERWOOD: No, I don't think so, for
the same reason I don't think -- that is, if you have a
tort remedy that the State is hearing than a limit on
recovering that goes -- that is inconsistent with
congressional policy is not permitted. But if the State
were to say we won't hear any tort cases or we won't
hear any tort cases involving railroads or we won't hear
any tort cases --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you think --
consistently with our FELA cases it could have a rule
that no tort -- no tort cases may be brought by railroad
employees against the railroad in a State court.
MS. UNDERWOOD: State or Federal. There is
nothing in your FELA cases that says that as long as the
State is closing its doors equally. And there are, of
course, political reasons --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, they shouldn't have
closed the Federal doors under the FELA. They surely
could bring the suit under Federal.
MS. UNDERWOOD: No, but -- but --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you are saying they
could -- as opposed to State courts, the suits against
railroads where the damage gets -- over $10,000?
MS. UNDERWOOD: No, I don't think they could
put the damage requirement on, because then they would
be --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But they could totally
close it?
MS. UNDERWOOD: They could totally close the
doors, and I think that's different. That is not
hearing the case, and in closing -- closing the doors of
the court evenhandedly to State and Federal cases. That
is -- that is --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If you leave the door open
to suits against every other possible defendant except
railroads? I mean, it seems to me your hardest case is
really the FELA cases here.
MS. UNDERWOOD: I think the FELA cases, some
of which were -- some exclusions were upheld and some of
which were struck down, support our position, because
they only strike down exclusions of jurisdiction where
there is a discrimination, where the Court finds a
discrimination between the Federal and State claim.
In Mondou, Connecticut was hearing suits
against railroads under State law. It was even hearing
suits against railroads under other States' law that
imposed -- liability, but it was refusing to hear only
suits under Federal law. And that's why the Court
struck it down.
Similarly, in McKnett and in Testa, in each
case this Court struck down in limitation on the
ground -- not that the State had an absolute obligation
to hear the Federal claim, but that it had an
obligation, if it was going to exclude jurisdiction, to
exclude it evenhandedly.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that in Testa
the State said we are evenhanded, we don't bring -- we
don't allow penal actions to be -- to be brought on the
civil side of our court?
MS. UNDERWOOD: But what -- but what this
Court pointed to in Testa was that while they said that,
they did, in fact, hear pun -- double damage actions,
which is what this was. It was penal in a sense not of
being a criminal, but as being a double damage -- a
multiple damage action.
And what the Court said was because Rhode
Island does hear double damage actions arising under its
own law and under the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act,
essentially the rational they gave for excluding the
Emergency Press Control Act had been proven false and
must -- unless as the only explanation unwillingness to
enforce the emergency press control.
JUSTICE BREYER: So what you have now is you
have one reason, I think, would be clearly wrong; I
think, I assume that. But if the State closed their
doors to this kind of suit because they say we think our
correctional officers should be immune from damages, now
we know they can get money under the Federal law, but we
want nothing to do with this. That, I think, would be
discrimination against the suit if that were their
reason.
Now, there is a neutral reason, and it's
demonstrated, and it is, well, you see, there are just
too many -- there are just too many lawsuits by
prisoners against prison officials. And we don't want
all that business in that court, and here's how we deal
with it.
One, we take away their cause of action,
that's what we do under State law, and then we -- the
feds -- we throw them back to Fed court? Without --
MS. UNDERWOOD: Or -- or we offer them a
court of claims.
JUSTICE BREYER: You don't offer them a
court of claims, because what you offer in the court of
claims is an action against the State. And you can say
that isn't a big deal because after all, most of these
really are actions against the State anyway, because
they get compensated.
Okay, so if I treat that as neutral, I have
one bad reason and one good reason. And how do I know
which is which? That is, is it really true that there
are a lot of suits brought in State courts in places
with prisons under 1983 for damages rather than Federal
courts? I don't know what the numbers are? Have you
looked them up at all?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, they aren't -- this is
what I can tell you. I think 1983, they are -- I mean,
suits against --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- 1983 actions, but maybe
they bring them mostly in Federal court.
MS. UNDERWOOD: They do bring them in
Federal court.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So one way to test
this out would be the following: If we had numbers and
knew, you know, about how many State -- how many damage
actions against prisoners were being brought in State
courts in districts that have prisons there, and then we
saw how much New York was really hurting and then we
asked another question, maybe there is some Federal
security actions, you see, where there is no State
comparable action and we found out, well, the State lets
them bring these actions in State court. So, there are
ways of dealing with this empirically. Have you any
sense of it?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, what I can tell you is
that there are a great many State law -- I can't tell
you numbers -- a great many State law actions against
corrections officers. They are either in the court of
claims or they are in Federal court because this statute
says that the courts have no jurisdiction over the
damage actions, and it doesn't matter whether they are
1983 or state law. But there are a great many -- I
mean, it says to -- read them.
The State law actions -- there are many
state law actions that can't be constitutionally
characterized. There is all kinds of, you know,
damaging loss to property, medical malpractice,
negligence, failure to protect from harm, things that --
many things that the prisoners bring suits against that
are not constitutional. They aren't in the Supreme
Court. They would be if you struck this statute down.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's not really that they
are not the Supreme Court, but the -- the damages are
limited, aren't they, because in the court of claims, as
I understand it or under the statute, there can't be any
punitive damages? Whereas if it were a straight 1983
action in the State supreme court, punitive damages
would -- would be a possibility.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, there are two things
to say about punitive damages. One is that, yes --
there are three things -- there are no punitive damages
in the court of claims. Punitive damages, of course,
are available in Federal court, which is fully available
to these plaintiffs and is where they normally are if
they think they have a punitive damage claim.
It is also case that actions outside the
scope of employment are not covered by this statute.
JUSTICE SOUTER: They could be brought into
the state supreme court --
MS. UNDERWOOD: They could be brought into
the state court.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- which is a -- which is
one of your jurisdictional problems because the --
the -- in effect, New York is saying the most -- the
most egregious class of cases, the cases in which the
correctional officers are not only doing some actionable
but something outside the scope of their duty, well, we
will hear them, they are fine. And we will provide
punitive damages for them.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Which -- which makes it a
little tough to say that in the less egregious cases
there is a -- that the -- that the exclusion of the less
egregious cases is a jurisdictional exclusion as
distinct from an exclusion based upon policy about how
less egregious cases ought to be handled.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, it is a
jurisdiction -- it is framed as jurisdictional, it is
treated as jurisdictional. The New York courts say --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but aren't you simply
saying, look, we go around calling it jurisdictional.
And -- and my point was, that isn't it difficult, isn't
it, in fact, inappropriate to call it jurisdictional
when you have a class of the most egregious cases under
1983 which the State supreme courts hear, and there is,
nonetheless, a second class of cases, also 1983 -- they
simply happen to be less egregious -- that they don't
hear? Isn't it difficult, using jurisdictional in the
normal sense of the term, to say that is a
jurisdictional distinction?
MS. UNDERWOOD: No, because what the
jurisdictional bar is for damage actions against
correctional officers where actions is the scope of
their employment -- and the New York courts don't just
say it's jurisdictional. They give it the effect of a
jurisdictional bar.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What if the New York
legislature passed a statute saying the -- the State
court supreme court will not have jurisdiction over 1983
actions for -- for harm committed on Wednesday, would
you say that that was a jurisdictional rule?
MS. UNDERWOOD: I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I will answer the question
for you, if you want.
MS. UNDERWOOD: I think it would be hard
to --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You wouldn't have.
MS. UNDERWOOD: -- to find a rationale for
it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even if it were, it would
be discriminatory and invalid, right?
MS. UNDERWOOD: I was going to say, I don't
think that its flaw is that it's not juris -- it's
jurisdictional. The flaw is it's irrational.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or discriminatory. It's
picking on --
MS. UNDERWOOD: Or as between -- as between
places, yes. But --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Would you say it was
jurisdictional so long as the Supreme Court said -- or
so long as the State legislature said, no State or
Federal actions for -- for -- for Wednesday damages?
Would you call that jurisdictional?
MS. UNDERWOOD: I would call it very
strange.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You might call it crazy
outside of court, but the one thing you wouldn't do is
walk in a court and say it's jurisdictional.
And the -- my -- the point I am getting at
is, the finer the comb that -- that -- that keeps the
certain class of case out, the less plausible it is to
say that this is a jurisdictional kind of criterion
sense of it?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, what I can tell you is
that there are a great many State-law -- I can't tell
you the numbers. There are a great many State-law
actions against corrections officers.
They are either in the Court of Claims, or
they are in Federal courts because this statute says
that the courts have no jurisdiction over the damage
actions. And it doesn't matter whether they are 1983 or
State law. But there are a great many -- I mean it
says, to read them, that State-law actions -- there are
many State-law actions that can't be constitutionally
characterized.
There is all kinds of, you know, damage and
loss to property, medical malpractice, negligence,
failure to protect from harm, things that -- many things
that the prisoners bring suits against that are not
constitutional. They aren't in the Supreme Court. They
would be if you struck the statute down.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's not really that they
are in the Supreme Court, but the -- the damages are
limited, aren't they? Because in the Court of Claims,
as I understand it, or under the statute, there can't be
any punitive damages; whereas, if it were a straight
1983 action in the State supreme court, punitive damages
would -- would be a possibility.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, there are two things
to say about punitive damages: One is that, yes, that
-- there are three things. There are no punitive
damages in the Court of Claims. Punitive damages are,
of course, available in Federal court, which is fully
available to these plaintiffs and is where they normally
are, especially if they think they have a punitive-
damage claim.
It is also the case that actions outside the
scope of employment are not covered by this statute.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, they could be brought
into the State supreme court.
MS. UNDERWOOD: They could be brought into
the State supreme court.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Which is one of your
jurisdictional problems because the -- the -- in effect,
New York is saying the -- the most -- the most egregious
class of cases, the cases in which the correctional
officers are not only doing something actionable but
something that is either outside the scope of their
duty, but we will hear them. They are fine, and we will
provide punitive damages for them.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, I think the rationale
for that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Which makes it a little
tough to say that in the less egregious cases there is a
-- that the -- that the exclusion of the lesser cases is
a jurisdictional exclusion as -- as distinct from a --
an exclusion based upon policy about how less egregious
cases ought to be handled.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, it is a jurisdictional
-- it is framed as jurisdictional, and it is treated as
jurisdictional. The New York courts say --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but aren't you simply
saying: Look, we go around calling it jurisdictional.
And -- and my point was that isn't it difficult -- isn't
it, in fact, inappropriate to call it jurisdictional
when you have a class of the most egregious cases under
1983 which the State supreme courts hear. And there is,
nonetheless, a second class of cases, also 1983, that
simply happen to be less egregious that they won't hear.
Isn't it difficult, using "jurisdictional" in the normal
sense of the term, to say that is a jurisdictional
distinction?
MS. UNDERWOOD: No, because what the
jurisdictional bar is for damage actions against
corrections officers who are acting in the scope of
their employment. And the New York courts don't just
say it's jurisdictional. They give it the effect of the
jurisdictional bar.
JUSTICE SOUTER: When has the New York
legislature passed a statute saying that the -- the new
-- the State supreme court will not have jurisdiction
over 1983 actions for -- for harm committed on
Wednesday? Would you say that that was a jurisdictional
rule?
MS. UNDERWOOD: I think -- I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I will answer the question
for you, if you want. You -- you wouldn't have --
MS. UNDERWOOD: I am just trying to find a
rationale for it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even if it were, it would
be discriminatory and invalid, right?
MS. UNDERWOOD: I was going to say I don't
think that its flaw is that it's not -- it's
jurisdictional. The flaw is that it's irrational.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or discriminatory.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Or discriminatory, yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Would you say it was
jurisdictional so long as the -- the Supreme Court said
-- so long as the State Legislature said no -- no state
or Federal actions for -- for Wednesday damages? Would
you call that "jurisdictional"?
MS. UNDERWOOD: I would call it very strange
jurisdictional --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You might call it crazy
outside of court, but the one thing you wouldn't do is
walk into a court and say it's jurisdictional. And my
-- the -- the point that I am getting at is: The finer
the comb that -- that keeps the certain class of case
out, the less plausible it is to say that this is a
jurisdictional kind of criterion at work here.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, in --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And that's what I -- that's
why I keep getting at the point that when -- when you
lay in some 1983 actions, the worst ones, the ones with
the highest potential damages, but you say, well, the --
the less awful ones, the ones that may be within scope
of employment, they can't come in, it seems to me that
the -- that the teeth on the comb are getting rather
fine. And in terms of our normal usage in -- in
applying this criterion, it -- it is not plausibly
jurisdictional.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, unlike the Wednesday
case, our -- our statute is rational, because it takes
out of the courts of general jurisdiction the cases that
are most numerous and that are most appropriately
indemnified by the State. But it leaves in the courts
of general jurisdiction the ones that are less numerous
and that are not appropriately indemnified or turned
into actions against the State. So it's rational unlike
the Wednesday cases.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: One of the concerns I have
in this case is the scope of employment is often
litigated, and it would seem to me that the State of New
York might routinely say, oh, this is not within the
scope of employment.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, there is a body of
cases that are quite generous --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Which -- which means that
this is a very difficult distinction and is a further
burden on the 1983 ride.
MS. UNDERWOOD: The law of the State of New
York is relatively clear on this. The kinds of cases
that are outside the scope of employment are prisoner
rapes and things that are done by corrections officers
that do not in any way further the -- the objective.
They are simply --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think that's a rather
routine defense. But why are they -- why are they left
in the supreme court?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Because they are not
appropriately -- because the State doesn't want to take
responsibility -- when the State statute takes them from
the supreme court, then actions on such matters can be
brought against the State in the court of claims. And
the state is not taking responsibility for those cases
and will not indemnify them.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: When was this statute
first enacted?
MS. UNDERWOOD: Well, the statute was first
enacted in -- in about 1947, or so.
JUSTICE: And then you say they were not --
that 1982 is on the books, but, gee, it wasn't -- it
wasn't --
MS. UNDERWOOD: It was not -- it was nothing
--
JUSTICE: It pretty clearly was not aimed at
defeating Federal actions.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Correct. It was not aimed
at defeating Federal actions. It was aimed at just --
at -- at managing the --
JUSTICE: It had not even been held then
that State Farm was available for 1983 actions.
MS. UNDERWOOD: That's correct.
JUSTICE: Yes.
MS. UNDERWOOD: That's correct.
JUSTICE: Can I -
MS. UNDERWOOD: The rise of Federal 1983
actions came subsequently and -- and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that's an important
factor, I would think. Let me ask another question. It
-- it's a standard rule of international law that no
State will enforce the penal laws of another State. I
assume the Federal Government could not -- maybe I am
wrong to assert this, but could the Federal Government
require New York to prosecute federal crimes?
MS. UNDERWOOD: I don't know the answer to
that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't, either, but I
think it can't. I think it can't, probably. Then my
next question is going to be: Why aren't punitive
damages penal laws as well? And if that's the same
principle, maybe there's no big deal about New York
excluding penal damages --
MS. UNDERWOOD: There may be, but there is
no --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: 1983 does not -- correct
me if I am wrong -- does not allow punitive damages
against a State, does it?
MS. UNDERWOOD: 1983 does not allow any
liability. 1983 has been construed not -- the State
isn't a person; it can't be a defendant.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Not -- if I got that
right, not in Monell.
MS. UNDERWOOD: The State in Monell --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Even in Monell -- even in
Monell there is no punitive damages against the State,
which is another reason you -- you were discriminating
against the employee here -- against the prisoner.
Because the prisoner could get punitive damages against
the correctional officer but not against the State in
either court.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Where he can -- where he can
bring his 1983 action, he can get punitive damages. The
State has closed its door to damage actions, 1983 or
otherwise.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In neither court can you
get -- and correct me if I am wrong -- punitive damages
against the State, which never --
MS. UNDERWOOD: He can get damages -- under
1983 he can get damages against --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: He can under Monell.
MS. UNDERWOOD: Not against -- no, not --
not against the State.
JUSTICE STEVENS: In county --
MS. UNDERWOOD: Yes. In fact, what I was
going to say is that one of the things that shows there
is no congressional policy focused only on individuals
is that municipalities and other government entities are
proper defendants. The State is not. Likely, the
government -- the Federal policy was -- found by this
Court in construing 1983 for not making the State a
defendant was not that that would undermine deterrent
and that it was preferable to sue individuals, but that
there was some reluctance -- concern about power or
wisdom of -- of imposing liability on the States.
And, in fact, that is what this Court said
in Monell and Will about why the State is not a person.
So I don't think 1983 is fairly read as embracing a
congressional judgment that it's better to have
liability against individuals, better from the
plaintiffs' point of view, than against the State.
But the way this works is it is, in effect,
a mandatory removal. And since Congress has no
objection and has not prohibited removal the way it did
in FELA cases, it's hard to see how the congressional
policy is frustrated by this mandatory removal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Murtagh, you have four minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JASON E. MURTAGH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MURTAGH: Mr. Chief Justice, just very
briefly, General Underwood just mentioned that -- that
this could be analyzed as a mandatory removal statute.
But the distinction, Your Honors, is that what New York
State does when it removes these cases to Federal court
is it uses an avenue that is provided by Congress. And,
certainly, if Congress wants to provide for removal to
Federal court, Congress can do that.
What the State cannot do is come in and
interpose its policy judgment over and above what
Congress has decided with respect to Federal claims.
Very quickly, I would like to address the
second point. General Underwood pointed out that there
are a lot of large prisons in rural counties in New York
State; and, therefore, there are a lot of cases that
might be brought in those courts. There is no dispute
in this case, Your Honors, that if New York wanted to
have a statute that said those cases will be transferred
to the less busy courts of our State, that would be
okay. That would be a neutral rule of judicial
administration related to the operation of the courts
that is unrelated to the substance or the identity of
the parties.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In that same act they
might rescind the -- the laws allowing the State to
respond in damages, in which case you won't obtain very
much.
MR. MURTAGH: Well -- well, Your Honor, my
client can't bring his Section 1983 claim in any State
court because he can't bring it against the employees,
because Correctional Law Section 24 keeps him out of the
supreme court. And he can't sue the you State in the
court of claims because in Will v. Michigan this Court
said the State is not a person. So he simply cannot
bring his Federal action in any State court if he wants
money damages.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I find it hard to regard
this as a non-neutral law when it was put on the books
before there were any of these 1983 actions.
MR. MURTAGH: Well, Justice Scalia, the --
the very first iteration of this law was in 1947. The
law was actually amended -- and it is discussed in -- in
the joint appendix and there is some in the beginning of
our brief -- in the early 1970's after there were a
significant number of -- of Section 1983 claims that had
begun to be filed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was there any substantive
change from what the original enactment to the amendment
-- the one that's currently enforced?
MR. MURTAGH: Justice Ginsburg, I don't
recall whether there were any. We actually researched
the legislative history and had a bit of difficulty
going back that far. I don't recall whether there were
a lot of substantive changes or not, quite honestly.
This is a statute, though, that the -- that
the New York Legislature has -- has dealt with over the
years.
One of the important things is that in the
1970's -- and I apologize for not having the exact date
-- the New York Legislature said that the purpose of
this was to provide immunity to corrections officials.
And as we pointed out in our briefing, there is a bill
currently pending before the New York Legislature that
says we want to extend the same immunity that we provide
to prison officials to employees of the Office of --
JUSTICE BREYER: They are saying -- they are
also saying there is a neutral reason. The neutral
reason is the State sees there are just too many cases
in which prisoners are suing correctional officials.
So then they say: Here's what we are going
to do about it. First, under State law, we will wipe
out all the suits and give them instead an action
against the State. But we know there are still some
Federal cases about the same thing. So what we are
going to do is we are going to say bring them in Federal
court. Why bring them in State court? So now we've
dealt with our administrative problem.
So that's their neutral administrative
reason. Now, people would like to bring 1983 actions
still in State or Federal court. It may be more
convenient. They get attorneys' fees, and the
attorneys' fees you don't get under the State law. So
why isn't -- or why is -- I guess that's the question
for me: Is this an adequate, neutral, administrative
reason or not?
MR. MURTAGH: No, Justice Breyer. The --
the reason that is given in this particular case, if you
-- if you go through the Respondent's briefing, the
reason that is given is that there -- is that this
statute exists because there are lots of frivolous,
vexatious lawsuits.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, forget all of the
characterizations. If we could look into the motive,
maybe we would have a different view. But all we have
is the statute on the books. And, as in many cases, the
people who are charged with defending those statutes
think of very good reasons which are very plausible that
could have motivated the people involved, and they have
come up with the one that you have heard. Now, what's
-- what's wrong with that one?
MR. MURTAGH: And I'm sorry, Justice Breyer.
The reason?
JUSTICE BREYER: The reason is, you see,
there are so many cases in which the person is suing --
the prisoner is suing the prison official that our
courts are clogged. So what we are going to do is:
One, give the prisoners a good remedy under State law in
a different court; and, two, close our doors to the
comparable Federal case.
MR. MURTAGH: Justice Breyer, the answer is
that the State can certainly do that with respect to the
State-law claims.
What it can't do is try to shuttle Federal
claims off to the Federal courts and close its doors for
a hearing on similar State claims.
Your Honors, thank you for your time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
61:22 41:19 42:6,13 31:24 23:19 35:16,16basic 32:8
43:3,6,7 44:3 3:18 4:14,17 argument 1:12 beats 22:18,19
3:4,6 8:3
18:6,19 46:19 47:9,13 amended 58:19 8:4 20:8 25:16 58:20
47:15,16 48:14 amendment 37:10 57:1 begun 58:23
52:6 53:5,19 amount 32:17 40:14 2:4,6,9 3:7
add 22:21,22 16:12,13 25:2 assume 40:22 36:6,15 37:12
address 9:6 analogy 13:24 assuming 28:3 benefits 4:22
adequate 60:11 34:19,21 30:20 31:9 56:16,17
58:1 22:24 23:6,12 answer 34:23 4:11 60:8,9 bill 59:14
administrative 50:13 54:13 20:23 blatantly 26:10
10:10,10 33:18,19,23 anybody 32:24 11:24 14:21 body 52:13
13:5 60:4,5,11 anyway 41:19 15:1 books 26:12
14:24 administrativ... apologize 59:11 available 4:12 53:14 58:15
26:7,8 32:11 appeal 23:16,21 5:22 6:14,20 60:22
adopt 19:10 23:22 43:25,25 48:10Breyer 22:21,25
28:21 25:4 Appeals 3:11 48:11 53:24 23:2 31:4,9,23
31:25,25 advantage 10:13 APPEARAN... avenue 57:8 32:3,7 40:20
34:22 affirmed 3:11 1:14 awarded 34:11 41:15 42:6,10
40:12 agreeable 23:2,3 appendix 58:20 aware 35:22 59:18 60:13,19
42:18 agreed 5:9 applicable 21:19 awful 51:18 61:3,5,12
48:4 agreement 37:6 30:25 a.m 1:13 3:2 brief 58:21
58:12 agrees 6:3 applied 7:6 10:4 briefing 5:6 11:5
AL 1:6 32:22 19:24 21:10,21 bring 3:16 4:18
12:10 21:14,17 27:1 32:8,10,21 59:5 11:11,12 12:13
13:17,19 27:4,10,15 35:9,10 bad 41:22 17:23 34:6,15
22:3 allow 3:18 7:25 applying 51:22 balance 15:5 38:16 40:4
27:8,21 10:2 14:5,15 approach 24:16 bar 27:24 29:4 42:7,8,19
31:2 22:17 32:4,5 appropriately 35:17 45:14,18 43:11 47:21
32:5 40:5 54:24 52:2,5 53:3 50:1,5 55:15 58:6,7
55:1 areas 8:18 BARBARA 1:17 58:12 60:2,3,6
allowed 23:17 argue 20:17 2:5 25:16 bringing 3:12
6:15 cases 5:13 6:17 Chief 3:3,8 5:12 class 27:5 44:12 concentrated
6:21 7:19,21 6:22 7:22 8:12 45:6,8 47:3 33:6,12
30:9,10 8:5 9:1,4,17,17 8:24 15:7,17 48:23 49:18,20 concern 56:11
37:20 9:19 12:20 15:20 17:24 51:10 concerned 21:20
40:5 15:10 17:18 18:13 19:1,23 clause 4:15 8:9 29:13
42:13 19:13 21:11,19 20:9 25:12,13 30:17 concerns 52:8
48:16 21:22 23:3 25:19 56:24 clear 52:19 concurrent
53:6 24:21,25 26:21 57:3 61:19 clearly 40:21 30:21
30:8,11,24 choice 11:11 53:18 conduct 14:9
37:19,20 38:3 circumstances close 11:19 conflict 37:13
23:25 40:6 39:1 61:10,16 18:19,24 19:11
35:11 52:1,7,14,19 14:2 15:21 closing 33:17 57:8,9,10,13
57:7,17,20 17:14 18:1,7,7 colloquy 19:24 38:2 56:4,16
51:3,4,6 59:20 60:1,22 18:9,12,15,24 comb 47:2 51:10 56:22
categories 25:6 22:4,6,16,17 come 9:12 21:18 Connecticut
6:1,13,16 7:25 12:14,15 34:5 35:7 committed considered 6:18
8:17,22 13:13 26:7,8 39:15,25 44:2 45:22 50:9 consistently
10:4,20 26:11 35:6 48:13 58:6 common 7:20 38:7
11:1 36:9 41:10 claims 4:8,9 16:14,17 constituted 20:6
14:10 certain 19:16 7:15 11:19,20 comparable constitutes 5:24
17:8,15 25:6 30:19 12:21 14:4,5 26:15 33:5 20:14
20:17,21 47:3 51:10 16:5,12,17 42:18 61:11 Constitution
certainly 12:2 17:3,9,12 18:3 comparison 25:20
23:21 30:5 18:3,17,22 25:23 constitutional
26:9,14 34:4 57:9 19:5,7,17 22:7 compensated 7:3 35:23
28:3,15 61:13 22:10,12,13 41:20 43:12 47:22
30:23,23 change 58:25 23:24 24:1 compensation constitutionally
32:3,4 changes 59:6 25:2,6,21,23 36:14 43:7 47:16
34:1,18 channel 16:25 25:24 27:6 competence construed 55:2
37:5,7 characterizati... 30:19 34:6 20:19 construing 56:8
44:3 7:4 35:14 41:14,16 competent 7:18 contract 10:10
48:14 characterizati... 41:17 43:1,16 12:20 14:3 22:12
52:9 60:20 43:24 47:10 complaints 33:1 contrary 26:22
58:3 characterized 48:1,9 53:6 completely contrast 11:2
10:16,17,18,23 23:7 24:14,19 44:2 45:14 defendants
26:24 13:14 14:3,23 27:7,17,20 50:1 55:16 28:1 29:3 56:6
15:5,9,21,25 28:1,5,12,22 damages 3:13 defending 60:23
53:20,25 19:9,12,14 35:11,17 38:19 25:9 28:10,19 demonstrated
55:19 20:4,12 21:6 41:24 42:1,14 28:22 31:13 41:5
23:13,17,21 47:11,12 49:13 36:2,24 40:24 34:10
17:5,6 25:19 26:19,22 52:1,3 57:18 43:19,22,23,24 determined 6:5
27:18,19 26:23 27:3 57:21,23 61:8 44:16 46:19 18:25
28:7,14 29:5 30:3,6,8 61:16 47:25 48:3,4,7 determining
31:7 30:11,13,23 Court's 7:11 48:9,9 49:2 21:15
35:21 31:24 32:7 11:16 15:13 51:2,17 54:18 deterrent 56:9
40:24 33:25 34:6,16 17:19 21:12 54:20,24 55:8 dictate 24:17
45:15 35:8,10 37:22 24:21 25:10 55:11,15,19,21 dictates 10:25
55:12 38:9 39:4,14 33:21 55:22 58:3,13 differ 5:1
59:21 39:20,23 40:6 covered 44:4 damaging 43:9 difference 6:23
28:25 41:12,14,16,16 covers 8:15 days 3:23 28:19 29:17
32:24 42:7,9,19,25 crazy 46:23 51:6deal 41:8,18 different 8:15
43:1,13,15,16 create 7:14 54:19 10:17 24:18
47:9 43:19,24,25 created 17:16 dealing 42:20 27:13 28:21
52:21 44:6,8 45:21 creates 30:18 deals 17:1 29:2 39:2
45:21 46:17,24 crimes 54:12 dealt 59:8 60:4 60:21 61:10
61:19 48:10,17,19 47:4 51:12,22 20:1 33:8 difficult 45:4,10
57:16 53:1,5,6 55:13 currently 59:1 32:8 57:13 difficulty 59:4
32:18,18 58:10,10,12 cutting 28:16 decisions 7:12 disadvantageo...
60:3,3,7 61:10 declaratory 34:7
43:24 9:15,17,18 25:16 defeat 34:5 26:16
10:2,13,20 damage 26:1 defeating 53:19 discriminate
12:14,17,19,24 32:5 33:10 defendant 4:5 discriminating
6:3,10,13 14:10 15:3,3 34:22 37:20,21 5:4,10 10:6 7:24 55:9
7:9,13 15:24 16:16 38:20,22 40:9 14:7,8 24:1 discrimination
19:15,18,20,21 40:11,12,14 27:14 30:13 19:4 26:20,23
9:1,11 10:1 20:18 22:2,24 42:12 43:3 39:7 55:3 56:9 39:14,15 41:2
34:4 effect 5:23 6:6 23:19 exempts 8:5 26:13,16 29:5
46:8,12 21:7 27:24 entity 5:3 exists 33:24 30:3,6,8,12,13
29:11,21 44:11 equally 38:12 60:17 30:15,15,16,18
49:6,9,18,21 2:5,8 expressed 30:9 39:4,15,20,25
42:25 47:10 essentially 40:16 extends 27:2,4 42:7,9,16 43:1
55:13 15:2 47:11 48:10
14:19 embracing 15:24 face 11:8 54:4,10,11,12
49:24 56:15 establishes fact 18:15 23:25 56:7 57:7,10
57:6 emergency 12:19 26:19 31:21 57:13 58:12
33:21 26:24 40:17,19 15:8 45:5 49:17 61:15,16
10:5,6 55:10 evenhanded 47:20 FELA 26:20,21
27:5 32:23,23 evenhandedly fairly 56:15 39:9,10 56:22
34:22 58:7 59:17 exact 23:5 59:11 Fankell 23:13 7:12 16:13
39:2 employment exactly 9:25 24:9 19:17 21:10,18
40:23 5:14,17 26:3 13:24 17:24 far 13:25 29:13 23:5 24:19
44:4 45:16 30:4 31:10 37:10 59:5 Fender 30:23
51:19 52:9,12 example 9:10 fear 11:8 final 23:15
21:22 enacted 53:10 excess 34:12 33:23 50:15 58:14
31:19 58:25 40:1,2 6:10,13,15,20 51:21
57:1 engage 20:10 exclusions 39:11 16:5 17:25 fishy 19:2
entertain 22:2 exclusive 30:18 18:24 19:4,6,7 50:20,21
29:7,17,20 guess 6:22 19:1 21:22 35:20 54:6
36:14 50:4 59:24 handling 33:22 honestly 59:6
26:19,23 go 15:23 18:2,3 49:21 7:11 8:2 11:15
42:18 18:16,22 21:21 happened 9:19 15:12 18:18 45:5 49:17
24:20 45:3 17:16 22:5,15 23:4
22:5 38:1 hardest 39:8 23:9 57:6,195:9 37:4,6
48:10 16:25 17:6,7 6:1,12 10:22 hurting 42:15 53:8
22:16,17 23:9 7:1,14,19,20 35:3,13 4:15
26:24 29:12,24 9:19 10:4 I individuals 56:4
46:9 11:18 12:20 Idaho 23:14,17 56:10,17
7:17 16:11 17:14 26:1,13,24 identity 9:6 10:5 injury 13:18
33:9,11 19:9 41:22 27:17 28:22 57:24 instance 28:18
52:1,4 60:24 61:9 29:16 34:2,3 Illinois 10:16,19 institutions
57:4,15 gotten 20:11 38:3,4,4 39:19 immune 29:14 32:16
14:22 hearing 31:1 4:10 11:25 interesting
51:9,15 42:23,24 43:4 39:17 61:17 27:12,25 29:2 interlocutory
47:7,8,14 hears 17:9 29:5,9,10,15 23:21
25:5,8 27:13 23:2 24:5,11 52:24 53:9 58:8,15,18,19
28:4,12,13,23 26:5 27:1,4,10 55:18,23 58:1
33:12,21 39:13 30:2,5,14 31:4 kind 9:22,23
44:25 45:21 32:3,7 33:14 20:19 22:16,17
52:1,4 35:13,19 36:10 33:23 40:23
60:25 9:2,16 13:6,6,7 38:6,14,18,24 47:18 52:19
23:10 27:23,24 43:14 44:5,9 14:17 21:2 5:22 11:11
44:10,21,25 45:25 46:4,7 41:22 42:1,12
46:18
26:9 45:14,17,18,23 47:24 48:16,20 54:13 59:25 59:12,15
48:21 50:13,17,22,24 knows 17:17level 7:18 23:20
3:6 57:1 50:1,4,5,10,21 53:13,18,23 label 20:3 liable 19:11 30:2
24:8,9 51:12,23 55:4,7,18,23 language 23:5 limit 37:25
jurisprudence 56:1,24 57:3 large 32:15 33:3 limitation 39:23
17:7 jury 3:24 60:19 61:3,5 13:22 limited 28:5
23:15 Justice 3:3,8 4:1 61:12,19 law 3:11,17,18 43:16 48:1
36:3,4,7 4:20 5:12 6:9 4:9,14 5:16,20 limiting 35:16
37:21 6:12,22 7:22 K 6:25 7:6,20 limp 32:14
57:12 8:12,24 9:14 Katt 24:22,23 11:18,24 12:2 line 6:17 13:24
11:21 12:1,4,7 keep 51:15 16:5,14,17 litigants 16:12
7:17 8:8 13:23 14:8,12 KEITH 1:3 28:19 29:11 litigation 32:17
9:5 14:19 15:7,17 Kennedy 4:1,20 30:15,15,16,16 32:19,25 33:4
12:19 15:20 16:8,11 11:10,21 12:4 30:17 31:19 33:4
19:16,18 16:19 17:10,24 12:7,11,18 39:17,18,20 little 23:10
20:2 18:7,13 19:1 24:5,11 34:8 40:15,25 41:11 44:19 49:5
19:23 20:9,25 34:14,18 35:13 42:23,24 43:4 long 6:19 13:14
21:2,5,9 21:4,14,17,25 35:19 36:10,22 43:6,7 47:14 16:3,3 25:22
24:20 22:9,14,21,25 37:5,9 52:8,15 52:18 54:8 26:15 28:20
51:1 47:14 15:12,19 16:3 18:20,23 19:2 31:17
20:1,1 21:10 52:15 18:6,18 19:8 26:1 27:17,20 obtain 58:3
32:12 meant 35:17 20:4 21:4,17 28:4,8,11,23 obviously 6:23
49:15 mechanism 22:5,11,15,25 29:8,11 31:13 7:4 15:23
35:20 23:4 24:9,13 33:15 34:9 occasions 8:14
57:16,17 21:12 29:10 narrow 13:20,20 59:8,12,15 36:23 55:12
Michigan 18:10 narrower 13:8 nondiscrimin... officers 29:9,22
mixing 15:18 negligence 21:3 48:24 50:2
47:19 modernize 16:1 neither 9:10 14:17 officer's 27:19
55:8,23 56:14 21:19 22:22 49:22 51:21 61:7
57:5 6:4,7 11:3 24:4 31:4,11 48:11 11:6,8 26:2
21:10 29:13 40:25 59:19,19 60:5 notion 17:13 35:21 41:7
35:8 58:13 60:11 number 5:6 59:13,17,21
20:15,20 motive 60:20 55:20 numbers 42:1 offshoot 37:17
26:3 move 9:8 new 1:17 3:10 42:11,24 47:8 oh 52:11
29:5 moves 9:14 3:13,17 4:16 numerous 52:2 okay 12:6,23
47:13 multiple 40:12 4:23 5:18,21 52:4 14:13 15:11,19
municipalities 6:2 7:16 8:5 N.Y 1:18 22:1 33:17
2:3,8 3:5,6,8 11:2,10,23 O 2:1 3:1 old 21:21
6:11 7:11 8:2 13:13,14,16,17 56:21 11:17 12:18,19
27:6 11:15 12:1,6 15:13,24 16:16 obligation 35:23 15:20 19:10
36:17 12:18 13:1,10 16:19,21,23 39:24 40:1 34:21
42:4 43:5 13:23 14:18 17:4,6,9,16 observation ones 51:16,16,18
52:4 people 19:11 56:18 57:15 5:3 8:5,6 11:4 57:9 59:13,16
27:19 57:15 59:14 32:23 35:21,21 16:21 19:19
permitted 38:2 points 5:4 8:25 61:7 provides 3:21,21
34:22 28:13,14 55:3 police 14:9 33:1 34:11,15 providing 14:25
personal 13:18 18:24 30:10 prisoners 4:4,22 punitive 3:21
35:22 37:1 38:2 44:22 41:7 42:13 43:18,19,22,23
44:23 3:12 30:24 political 38:13 prisons 32:15,20 49:2 54:17,24
57:2 posit 26:13 33:2,7,11,13 55:8,11,15,19
46:24 1:15 possibility 43:20 probably 17:18 59:12
51:7 phrase 27:15 48:5 20:7,7 34:24 purposes 16:13
pick 16:22,23 possible 39:7 54:16 18:11
22:11 46:13 potential 51:17 17:10 60:4 put 17:21 38:22
15:21 plaintiffs 4:13 predate 31:19 56:21 34:23 35:1,5
33:18 6:6 34:6 44:1 prefer 4:4 prohibits 3:12 37:16,16,18
48:11 56:18 preferable 4:24 proliferation 42:16 45:25
20:16,18 plausible 47:3 present 10:22 proper 56:6 60:10
57:25 51:11 60:24 press 40:17,19 property 43:9 questions 25:11
pocket 29:24 previous 19:13 protect 43:10 quite 20:12
40:5,10 16:11 19:1 principally provide 4:1 5:9 R
25:12 32:13 31:18 32:25 16:16 17:7 R 3:1
24:7 59:3,5 33:22 54:12 rise 54:4 12:23 13:1,3
39:8 17:3 7:14 13:15 6:22 7:22 8:12 14:8,12,19
record 4:21 17:20 23:14 15:7,17,20 16:8,11 21:25
51:25 redefined 5:22 26:1 37:3 56:24 61:19 46:7,12 50:17
6:25 38:22 routine 52:25 50:22 54:6,15
46:5 32:14 rescind 58:2 rule 9:2,5 10:25 scheme 4:23
50:16 reference 27:6 researched 59:3 19:10 20:5,22 36:23
refused 24:25 10:12 23:6,11,12,14 45:15 48:15,25
20:2 regarding 23:6 18:20,21 57:13 27:23 32:8 second 35:5 45:8
regardless 5:8 61:13 33:25 34:5 49:20 57:15
19:8 11:13 58:3 45:23 50:11 3:15 4:13 5:16
7:21 24:25 1:18 2:6 5:7 rules 9:7 18:4 7:21 12:3,8,9
10:23 22:23,23 31:5 20:17 24:17 ruling 9:16 16:14,15 18:8
19:4 57:23 25:17 rulings 21:12 18:11,12 20:22
24:17 relates 13:11 Respondent's run 15:3 23:18 58:6,8
27:13 relative 13:11 60:15 rural 32:16,18 58:22
30:1 14:21 responds 36:2 57:16 security 42:17
41:19,23 relatively 52:19 responsibility see 33:17 41:5
43:14 relegates 3:14 7:5 53:4,7 S 42:17 56:22
relief 9:23 17:22 responsible 36:5 S 2:1 3:1 61:5
31:5,11 28:18,21 29:12 result 27:14 saw 42:15 17:22
32:11 29:13 29:6 saying 8:22 13:4 seeking 3:15
37:24 reluctance results 24:18 14:22 19:25 25:8
41:3,4 56:11 revise 15:25 22:16 29:1 sees 59:20
55:9 remedies 4:12 Rhode 26:23 32:12 35:3 selectively 11:19
60:6 5:22 6:14 40:13 37:11 38:18 sense 20:2 34:2
remedy 19:12 ride 52:17 44:11 45:3,20 40:10 42:21
37:25 61:9 right 3:24 6:4 48:22 49:15 45:11 47:5
56:20,21,23 12:25 13:7 says 4:2 13:18 separate 5:20
60:24 remove 30:13 36:17 46:8 26:12 29:12 set 23:22
57:1 require 14:23 rights 3:20 47:11,15 59:16 18:22
special 18:4 42:23,24 43:4 strikes 8:22 22:12 27:1,4
specific 22:8 46:18,18 47:14 47:23 37:18
8:5 49:19 50:8 28:14,15 29:12 8:9 30:17
25:24 standard 21:15 52:10,18 53:3 61:22 7:18 10:23
32:10 54:8 53:4,6,7,24 subsequently 20:18 43:12,15
17:13 starts 8:16 55:20,25 56:6 21:20 22:3,6 47:22,25 48:4
28:5 state 3:13,17,18 56:8,14,18 22:23 23:8 48:17,19 49:19
45:2,9 3:20 4:2,8,9,14 57:7,11,17,21 57:24 50:8,25 53:1,5
52:23 5:2,7,9,10,11 58:2,6,9,11,12 substantive 10:9 58:9
6:2,3 7:8,14,25 59:20,23,25 58:24 59:6 sure 4:3 13:24
32:9 11:25 12:2,2 states 1:1,12 substituting 15:9,25 17:25
15:13,15,24 State's 12:16 12:8,8 16:22 T
17:9,20 18:8,9 47:15,16 61:14 22:18,19 28:6 tab 16:22,24
17:22 19:10,21 21:8 25:25 26:25 58:9 23:22 32:10
21:2 21:9,11 22:2 32:21 37:14,19 sued 37:1 33:9,10 41:10
44:5,9 31:1,6,21,24 59:7 60:17,22 11:12 16:25 talked 9:8
45:2,19 31:25 32:4,10 statutes 21:12 17:4 31:6 talking 12:12
46:4,16 33:4,6,8 34:3,5 26:19 60:23 34:15 38:16 20:14 28:12
47:24 34:6,8,10,15 STEVENS 40:23 41:2 36:23
49:5 34:21 35:4,9 37:17 38:6,14 suits 16:21 34:9 targeted 22:8
50:6,13 36:2 37:22,25 38:18,24 39:6 38:19 39:7,16 23:24
54:16 56:15 turns 37:8 49:3,11,25 29:2
thinks 16:12 35:2 36:13 52:13,18 53:2 walk 46:25 51:8
26:17 24:25 30:14 61:10 54:2,4,13,21 12:24 13:4,17
51:21 40:3 type 9:21 13:5,8 55:1,6,14,21 13:18 16:20
26:21,21 48:8 15:10 25:9 undo 25:10 53:3 59:16
39:22 throw 41:12 30:19 undone 19:14 wanted 4:18
Timbuktu 9:20 United 1:1,12 57:19
61:18,19 told 16:11 uh 13:18 unrelated 23:7 57:9 58:12
46:24 13:17,19 14:15 underlying 9:5,7 40:18 53:14,15
60:1 15:14 16:14,17 10:9 21:7,20 upheld 39:11 way 8:19 10:18
36:13 22:17 27:17 undermine 20:7 usage 51:21 19:5,6 32:9
33:16,17 37:20 35:6,6 56:9 use 9:13 24:19 34:24 42:10
48:6 37:25 38:3,4,5 undermines 31:20,20 52:22 56:19,21
52:21 38:8,8 35:14,17 36:8 uses 57:8 ways 23:22
59:10 torts 36:15 understand 42:20
7:15 8:3,25 39:1 43:17 48:2 v 1:5 3:4 9:2,4 Wednesday 1:9
11:15 tough 44:19 Underwood 10:14 18:9 45:22 46:19
14:18 49:6 1:17 2:5 25:15 21:22 23:13 50:10 51:2,24
16:7 tradition 28:20 25:16,18 26:5 24:9,22,22 52:7
19:3 transferred 26:18 27:3,9 31:23 58:10 went 10:18,18
20:4,9 57:20 27:12,22 28:2 valid 20:6 weren't 10:11
21:1,4 treasury 19:6,7 28:17 29:15,19 vast 32:16,25 10:12
22:20,25 treat 41:21 29:25 30:4,7 versus 21:3 we're 8:17 14:4
29:15 treated 34:1 30:22 31:8,16 vexatious 11:8 22:16,17
32:9,19 45:1 49:12 32:2,6,15 60:18 we've 8:13 60:3
trial 3:25 7:18 33:14,20 34:13 view 7:3,23 widespread
35:14,15 23:20 34:17,20 35:15 32:13 56:18 31:20
36:8,20 tried 29:21 36:6,12,18,20 60:21 win 26:9
tries 34:15 36:25 37:7,11 violate 4:15 wind 24:18
38:6,21 true 4:7 6:12 37:23 38:10,17 violated 3:19 wins 26:16,17
40:21 8:13 18:6 32:2 38:21 39:1,10 12:16 wipe 59:23
41:1 41:23 40:7 41:13 violative 3:24 Wisconsin 19:17
44:2 try 17:18 29:24 42:3,8,22 virtue 30:17 wisdom 56:12
46:2,10 61:15 43:21 44:7,17 withdrawal 16:4
27:23 York's 4:16 5:18 24 3:11 5:16
29:11 25 2:6
46:4,24 $3,000 34:12 30 3:23
51:7
55:19 07-10374 1:5 3:4 4-3 3:10
1
1:13 3:2 57 2:9
61:21
24:22
4:23 1980 34:14
7:16 8:5 1982 53:14
1983 3:12,15
4:13,24 5:23
6:3,6,15 7:21
11:12 12:3,9
12:21 14:2,4,5
15:8 16:14,15 18:8
16:16 18:11,12 23:18
27:7,21 28:5
28:15 31:7,13
19:2 31:18,19,21
26:1 34:15 35:9
28:4 36:11,12 41:25
42:4,6 43:4,18
31:13 45:7,8,21
34:9 47:13 48:4
37:2 49:19,20 50:9
44:11 51:16 52:17
53:24 54:4,23
49:13 55:1,2,15,16
52:11 55:22 56:8,15
54:12,19 58:6,16,22
