IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JOHNNIE CORLEY, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-10441
UNITED STATES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 21, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:14 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DAVID L. McCOLGIN, ESQ., Assistant Federal Defender,
Philadelphia, PA.; on behalf of the Petitioner.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DAVID L. McCOLGIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID L. McCOLGIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 48
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:14 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first today in Case 07-10441, Corley v. United
States.
Mr. McColgin.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID L. McCOLGIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. McCOLGIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
FBI agents delayed presenting Mr. Corley to
a Federal magistrate judge in order to obtain his two
confessions. The admissibility of these two confessions
depends on an issue of statutory interpretation: The
interpretation of 3501(c), together with the
McNabb-Mallory rule and the right of prompt presentment.
Now, there's two critical issues I would
like to address. The first is that 3501(c) as it's
written by Congress leaves the McNabb-Mallory rule in
place outside the six-hour time limitation. And the
second is that the Government's interpretation, under
which 3501(c) is merely a voluntariness safe harbor, is
unfaithful to the text and the structure of the statute.
Turning to the first point, subsection (c)
modifies McNabb-Mallory, but does not eliminate it. The
exact text of the statute here is crucial. And for the
Court's convenience, on page 7 of the yellow brief the
operative language of the text of the statute is set
out.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Before we -- before we
get to the statute, McNabb-Mallory are exercises of this
Court's supervisory authority over the lower courts?
MR. McCOLGIN: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And they were both
pre-Miranda decisions, when now the defendant is told of
his right to remain silent. Whatever Congress put in
1301 -- 3501, this Court could say, well, McNabb-Mallory
are no longer viable cases in light of Miranda.
MR. McCOLGIN: This Court could, but for
several prudential reasons this Court should not,
overturn McNabb and Mallory and should not find them to
be no longer valid considerations. First of all -- or
no longer valid precedents.
First of all, the Solicitor General's Office
has not asked that McNabb and Mallory be overturned.
Second of all, the parties have not briefed
that issue. It has been briefed instead as a statutory
interpretation issue.
Thirdly, Congress through 3501(c) structured
the statute on the existing precedent of McNabb and
Mallory, and at this point for the Court to pull McNabb
and Mallory out from underneath that structure would
cause that structure to basically collapse. It depends,
the six-hour time limitation, depends on the existence
of McNabb-Mallory outside that six-hour time period.
Congress can revisit this issue at any time.
Their hands are not tied. Congress could choose to
change 3501(c) so that it no longer provides for McNabb-
Mallory outside the six-hour time period. But that's a
decision for Congress and this Court, I would suggest
respectfully, should respect the prerogatives and the
policy choice that Congress has already made.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you arguing that the
language in subsection (c) codifies the McNabb-Mallory
rule?
MR. McCOLGIN: I am arguing that the exact
language, whether it is "codification" or "leaves
intact," doesn't matter. What it does is --
JUSTICE ALITO: There is a very big
difference, isn't there, between saying we are codifying
this rule, we're making it a statutory requirement, and
saying, assuming that this supervisory rule that was
adopted by the Supreme Court remains in place, we are
creating an exception to it? Which of those two things
does subsection (c) do?
MR. McCOLGIN: Your Honor, it does the
latter. It leaves McNabb-Mallory in place. However,
the language of the statute uses the phrase "time
limitation" in the proviso. "Time limitation" implies
more than we're just not just touching McNabb-Mallory
for the time being. It depends -- the statute depends
on McNabb-Mallory to create the time limitation, because
without McNabb-Mallory there is no limitation. After
the six hours nothing else happens unless McNabb-Mallory
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it would be
consistent with the second purpose that you gave to say
that there's a six-hour safe harbor, whatever term you
want to call it, and beyond six hours the Court is free
to reexamine its supervisory rule in light of what
Congress has provided in (a) and (b) of the statute.
MR. McCOLGIN: Well, but again, the language
of the statute is "time limitation." That's strong
language for Congress to use and it indicates that
Congress intended to limit the taking of confessions to
those first six hours. There is no limitation without
McNabb-Mallory in effect.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It is a little bit odd to
say that Congress has built a statute around a
supervisory rule, but taken away the authority of this
Court to reexamine the supervisory rule.
MR. McCOLGIN: I am not actually saying that
Congress has taken away the authority of the Court. I
am saying as a prudential manner, since Congress can
address this on its own and since it structured the
statute on the foundation of McNabb-Mallory, it would be
best for this Court to leave up to Congress that policy
choice.
Congress chose in 1968 to leave of
McNabb-Mallory protection against presentment delay in
place after six hours. It was a compromise, and it was
the appropriate compromise, because what it did was it
cut out the first six hours during which there had been
the most problems with the application of
McNabb-Mallory. The six-hour time limitation
effectively lowers the social cost of this rule of this
rule of inadmissibility while maintaining the deterrent
effect of McNabb-Mallory outside the six hours.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you were trying to
get to page 7 of your yellow brief?
MR. McCOLGIN: Yes, Your Honor. On page 7 I
set out the operative language of the statute. And what
the statute actually provides is that a confession shall
not be inadmissible solely because of delay if such
confession is found by the trial judge to have been made
voluntarily and made within six hours of arrest. Now,
the phrase "inadmissible solely because of delay" is
clearly a reference to the McNabb-Mallory rule because
that is exactly what McNabb-Mallory does. It renders
the confession inadmissible solely because of delay if
the delay in presentment was unreasonable.
So what the statute is providing on its face
is that a confession shall not be subject to the
McNabb-Mallory rule if it is voluntarily given and made
within six hours. The six-hour provision means that
McNabb-Mallory is in effect outside of the six hours.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or it may just mean
that the confessions beyond six hours may be excluded
solely because of delay. In other words, if the judge
says, look, I don't want to hear about all this other
stuff, it's just too long, he can't do that beyond the
six hours, but he can within the six hours.
MR. McCOLGIN: Within the six hours he
cannot exclude solely because of delay, even a voluntary
statement. That is the McNabb-Mallory principle,
inadmissible solely because of delay. So what it's
saying is that McNabb-Mallory does not apply within the
six hours.
Now the government's interpretation is that
this is simply a voluntariness safe harbor, and what
they do is they read the word "inadmissible" as being
synonymous with the word "involuntary." But the text of
the statute shows that those two terms are not
synonymous, because the text of the statute says that in
order for a confession to be admissible it must be
voluntary and made within six hours.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, they have that textual
problem, but you have at least an equally big textual
problem, because you want to read the first sentence of
subsection (a) completely out of the statute based on
some supposition about what Congress was intending to
do. So really, if you live by the text you die by the
text. I don't see how you are going to succeed with a
subsection (c) textual analysis if you're going to
disregard the text of subsection (a).
MR. McCOLGIN: Your Honor, we don't
disregard the text of subsection (a). Instead, we just
apply the principle that a general provision, if it
conflicts with a specific provision, the specific
controls over the general. What we have in subsection
(a) is a general statement that voluntary statements are
admissible. But if we read that the way the government
does, as making admissible every voluntary statement,
then that would make subsection (c) completely
superfluous.
JUSTICE ALITO: And if you read subsection
(c) the way you do, it makes subsection (a) mean
something quite different from what it says literally.
MR. McCOLGIN: No, it simply establishes an
exception in the area of delay. This is the way
statutes work. When there is a conflict between a
general provision and a specific one, the specific must
control over the general. If it worked the other way
around, it would render the specific superfluous. So
this has happened in statutes in numerous case. In 1983
versus 2254, it was held that 2254 as a specific
provision controls over 1983. So this is an accepted
principle of statutory interpretation.
JUSTICE ALITO: What you're -- you are not
arguing that there is a specific provision that controls
a general provision. You are arguing that an arguable
negative inference from an arguably more specific
provision reads new language into the text of a specific
provision. That's what you are arguing, isn't it?
MR. McCOLGIN: With respect, no, Your Honor.
We are not making the negative inference argument that
the government suggests we are making in the first part
of their brief. Instead, we are making the argument
that subsection (c) was constructed on the existing
precedent of McNabb and Mallory, which already
established a rule of inadmissibility. Subsection (c)
then just carves out the first six hours from that. So
it's not creating a rule of inadmissibility by negative
inference. Rather it's just recognizing that a rule of
inadmissibility already exists in the case law and the
purpose of this statute was to simply carve out from the
first six hours the McNabb-Mallory rule.
The government --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why can't you argue that
what happens when you are not within the safe harbor is
simply that the time period cannot alone govern, all
right, but it can still be part of the list of things
that can be taken into account in determining
voluntariness under (b). Why doesn't that reconcile the
two provisions?
MR. McCOLGIN: That, again, is the
government's interpretation. But it requires a
rewriting. It requires reading "inadmissible" as
"involuntary" to interpret all of subsection(c) as a
voluntariness safe harbor. But Congress used the word
inadmissible deliberately. That's a reference to the
McNabb-Mallory rule. McNabb-Mallory did not render
confessions voluntary or involuntary based on delay. It
rendered them inadmissible. So that language is
crucial. This cannot be read as a voluntariness safe
harbor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But admissibility is
defined in 3501 itself. (A) says that it shall be
admissible in evidence if it is voluntarily given; and
(b) says what factors will be taken into account in
determining whether it's voluntarily given.
MR. McCOLGIN: Yes, Your Honor. And (c)
makes clear that, at least for purposes of subsection
(c), voluntariness is not enough for admissibility,
because it says on its face that in order --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I agree with that. It is
not alone enough.
MR. McCOLGIN: So the two terms --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So if you are outside of
that safe harbor you cannot rely upon the time alone.
But why can't you rely on the time plus the other
factors?
MR. McCOLGIN: Your Honor, because the
effect is again to allow for a confession to be
inadmissible solely based on delay if it's outside of
the six hours.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not being admissible
solely on the basis -- I'm sorry. Delay is not the only
factor being considered in making the inadmissibility
call. Delay is one of the things; whereas, within the
safe harbor delay can't be taken into account at all.
MR. McCOLGIN: Well, what the Congress said
was that delay alone cannot be a basis for
inadmissibility within six hours.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. McCOLGIN: That leaves in place
McNabb-Mallory, under which delay alone is a basis for
inadmissibility.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. It -- it leaves it in
effect only if you ignore (a) and (b). (A) says that
it's admissible if it's voluntary --
MR. McCOLGIN: But that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and (b) says it's
voluntary if you take into account the five factors, one
of which is the period of time before arraignment.
MR. McCOLGIN: Your Honor, that depends.
The premise of that depends on the argument that
"inadmissibility" is synonymous with "involuntariness"
for purposes of subsection (c), and "admissibility" is
synonymous with "voluntariness," but they are not
synonymous as used in subsection (c).
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they are synonymous as
used in (a).
MR. McCOLGIN: Well, subsection -- as used
in subsection --
JUSTICE SCALIA: (A) says that if it's --
it's admissible if it's voluntary.
MR. McCOLGIN: Yes, Your Honor. However, as
used in subsection (c), that should control, because the
word "inadmissibility" is being used in that very same
sentence. Since the very same sentence makes clear that
voluntariness is not enough for admissibility, it's
clear that those two terms are not synonymous.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is it your position
that the McNabb-Mallory rule serves purposes other than
to ensure the voluntariness of the statement?
MR. McCOLGIN: Yes, it protects --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's what you're
trying to reach here?
MR. McCOLGIN: Yes, Your Honor. It protects
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But if that's true, then
why is it that we would suppress the confession if it's
completely voluntary? I mean, what's the link between
some other end that's being served by McNabb-Mallory --
MR. McCOLGIN: It's protecting --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- something other than
voluntariness and suppressing the confession?
MR. McCOLGIN: It's protecting the right of
prompt presentment. McNabb-Mallory was meant to prevent
the exploitation of delay in presentment as a means of
obtaining a confession.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But why do we want to
avoid delay in presentment? What reason do we give?
And I assume there are reasons that -- to contact family
and so forth -- other than voluntariness.
MR. McCOLGIN: Well, voluntariness is
certainly a part of it. But it's in addition, because
there's rights that attach at presentment that allow a
defendant to make a much more informed decision as to
whether --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What do those rights have
to do with a confession that is conceded, for our
analytic purposes, to be voluntary?
MR. McCOLGIN: Because the confession itself
was obtained through exploitation of the delay. During
a period of custody -- before presentment the defendant
was just in the hands of the zealous police officers who
have actually arrested him. It's a fundamental
principle of our justice system that that period should
be as short as reasonably possible because during that
period, as time goes on, the effect of the delay is to
increase the inherently coercive power of that uncertain
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you need fundamental
principles when you have got Rule 5 of the Rules of
Criminal Procedure? Don't they say that an arrestee
shall be taken before a magistrate without unreasonable
delay?
MR. McCOLGIN: Exactly, Your Honor. It's
the right under 5(a) to prompt presentment that is being
protected.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But all you are doing is
trying to have an enforcement mechanism for this by the
wholly unrelated remedy of suppressing the confession if
it's voluntary. If it's not voluntary, of course, it's
related.
MR. McCOLGIN: Well, the purpose of
McNabb-Mallory was actually to cut the line a bit short
of having to actually make a voluntariness
determination. It's a recognition that, even if the
statement is voluntary, that still there are inherent
coercive pressures that develop during a period of
presentment -- of presentment delay, and that that
period of time should be as short as possible so that
that coercive nature, the coercive nature of the
interrogation, doesn't cause the person to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you are saying a
confession can be coercive and still voluntary?
MR. McCOLGIN: It's -- yes, Your Honor. Not
in the sense that it's a coerced confession. I'm not
arguing that this was involuntary. Instead, I'm arguing
that McNabb-Mallory intends to avoid the voluntariness
requirement by establishing a prophylactic rule, so that
a presentment needs to be made as soon as reasonably
possible after the arrest so that that delay cannot be
exploited as a means of obtaining a confession. It both
protects the right to prompt presentment and it also --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you this: What
other remedy, other than suppression of the confession
made after six hours, is there available to the
defendants to enforce the interest in prompt
presentment?
MR. McCOLGIN: There is no other remedy
available. In fact, the message that an affirmance in
this case would send to law enforcement is that delay
for the purpose of interrogation is permissible and that
the right of prompt presentment is unenforceable.
Without McNabb-Mallory, this becomes an empty right.
There is no other remedy. And that's why particularly
where the delay is purposeful, as we have in this case
--
JUSTICE ALITO: Why would that be the case?
The confession could still be suppressed on grounds of
involuntariness?
MR. McCOLGIN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Your argument is you don't
trust district judges to make accurate determinations as
to whether the confession is voluntary or not. You need
-- you need a rule that takes that out of their hands.
MR. McCOLGIN: It's not that we don't trust
them. It's that delay for the purpose of interrogation
should not be pushed to that limit; that delay for the
purpose of interrogation should not be permitted. The
delay, particularly where it's for that express purpose,
even if the defendant cannot show that it rose to the
level of involuntariness, still it's exploitation of
delay. It's a violation of the right to prompt
presentment, and that violation of the right to prompt
presentment under McNabb-Mallory renders that confession
--
JUSTICE ALITO: What's the purpose of the
requirement of prompt presentment?
MR. McCOLGIN: The purpose of the right of
prompt presentment is several-fold.
First of all, it's because there are
inherent coercive characteristics that develop during a
period of custody, and a person, once arrested, should
be presented to a neutral magistrate so that the neutral
magistrate can both assign counsel, give an opportunity
for consultation with counsel, and can also inform the
person of his rights, address bail, and issues such as
that. So the right of prompt presentment is considered
fundamental. It's considered a basic right, a basic
statutory right in our system.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. McColgin, what do you
do with the problem that the proviso only makes a delay
longer than six hours nondestructive of the
admissibility of the confession if the delay beyond six
hours "is found by the trial judge to be reasonable
considering the means of transportation and the distance
to be traveled to the nearest available magistrate judge
or other officer."
I can think of a lot of reasons why you
can't do it within six hours other than the means of
transportation and the distance to be traveled.
MR. McCOLGIN: We have to remember, Your
Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You see, if you take the
government's position that it really doesn't matter, it
gets thrown back into (b), and you can take all those
factors into account, and the ultimate question is
whether the confession was reasonable.
But if you take your position, the defendant
automatically walks, or at least his confession is
automatically thrown out, and the only exception made is
if the means of transportation and the distance to be
traveled made six hours impracticable.
MR. McCOLGIN: No, Your Honor, that's not
our position. Our position is that the first question
is did the confession fall within that six-hour time
period?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. McCOLGIN: Or longer, depending on
transportation, means of transportation. For that
determination of whether it falls within the exclusion
period, only means of transportation or distance is
considered, but once the confession is outside that
period, then McNabb-Mallory applies and the confession
may still be admissible if the delay was necessary. And
for those purposes, once we are determining whether
McNabb-Mallory requires inadmissibility, the court can
consider, for example, emergency hospital treatment or
unavailability of the magistrate. So all of those
factors can and do get considered once we get into the
determination of whether McNabb-Mallory requires
exclusion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that certainly is a
very back-door way of doing it, isn't it?
MR. McCOLGIN: Not at all, Your Honor,
because once we look at the structure of the statute
what it's doing is carving out the first six hours from
McNabb-Mallory. So the determination of whether we are
in that carve-out period is limited to transportation
and distance, but once we are outside of it, we just
apply McNabb-Mallory, and that's McNabb-Mallory as it
has developed in the case law, which includes all of
these other considerations.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But why -- why was it
appropriate to have a special rule for transportation?
In other words, everything that is covered by the
transportation proviso would, on your theory would on
your theory have been subject to consideration under
McNabb-Mallory anyway. So why did they simply have a
six-hour rule and leave any exceptions, transportation,
unavailability of magistrate, medical emergency,
whatever, to -- to the leeway that McNabb-Mallory
allows?
MR. McCOLGIN: Because the first question,
again, is just whether to exclude the confession
altogether from the McNabb-Mallory determination. And
for those purposes, they -- some Senators from larger
States where there's greater distances to travel wanted
to make sure that there was an exception for
transportation and distance.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So basically -- I don't
mean this disparagingly, but basically the answer is
politics. Somebody from a State thought of it and
nobody else said, well, gee, let's pile on some other
provisos. It's as simple as that in your view?
MR. McCOLGIN: Exactly, Your Honor. There
was very little comment on it added at the -- at the
last minute. The Scott Amendment had just included the
six-hour provision, but then the proviso was added on
the floor at the very last minute.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I see.
MR. McCOLGIN: Your Honor, the government
also relies on 402 as a basis for arguing that
McNabb-Mallory has been basically overturned by
Congress. Rule 402, however, clearly does not apply
here. The advisory notes -- the advisory committee
notes make clear that Rule 402 was never intended to
overturn McNabb-Mallory. In fact, the advisory
committee identified McNabb-Mallory as a rule of
inadmissibility that was meant to stay in place even
after the implementation of Rule 402.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: At least one time limit
that has been complied with -- and that's the Fourth
Amendment, how long you can keep somebody seized without
taking them before a magistrate -- there is no violation
of that time period, is there?
MR. McCOLGIN: That's correct, Your Honor,
the McLaughlin principle that less than 48 hours is
presumptively reasonable. However, Congress in -- in
3501(c) chose to set a six-hour time period for the
taking of confessions and to leave McNabb-Mallory in
place outside that time period.
I would suggest that Congress struck an
appropriate balance at that time, keeping McNabb-Mallory
in place for the more extreme types of delay, but
eliminating it from the shorter periods of delay. And,
in doing so, Congress struck an appropriate balance, and
I would suggest that this Court should respect the
balance that Congress has struck. Unless there is any
further questions, I would ask that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I just have one question.
Do you think the -- that the D.C. Circuit -- the statute
pertaining to the District of Columbia is relevant?
MR. McCOLGIN: As legislative history, yes,
Your Honor, because the 3501(c) was modeled on the D.C.
legislation, which established clearly a three-hour time
period. And the legislative history for that was very
clear that they intended to leave McNabb-Mallory in
effect outside that time period.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. McCOLGIN: No further questions? Thank
you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Dreeben.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
It's important in this case to go back and
look at the original Rule of Exclusion that this Court
developed in the McNabb case in 1943 and then reiterated
in the Mallory case in 1957. Both of those cases
considered a pre-Miranda regime in which there was no
constitutional law that required that a suspect be
advised of his rights.
Under Rule 5 of the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure and under statutes that preceded it
that were in effect at the time of McNabb, the only way
to ensure that a suspect was informed of his rights to
silence and counsel was to bring him before a
magistrate, and the magistrate would advise him of those
rights. This Court in McNabb and Mallory thus fashioned
a judicial rule of evidence, an exclusionary rule under
the Court's supervisory power not as an effectuation of
something that Congress specifically intended but of its
own force as a way to backstop the Rule 5 requirement.
In the government's view, two acts that came
subsequently to McNabb and Mallory, section 3501 and
Rule 402 of the Federal Rules --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me just ask before you
get to those, Mr. Dreeben: Other than the McNabb-
Mallory Rule, what was available as a sanction for
violations of the rule of prompt presentment?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Stevens, I am not sure
that there is any evidentiary sanction.
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, not -- apart from an
evidentiary sanction.
MR. DREEBEN: None has risen in the case law
that I can point Your Honor to. I think the primary
safeguard of the enforcement of Rule 5 is the obligation
that is placed on the government and on government
agents to comply with rules of criminal procedure that
are valid.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So at the time that
Mallory and McNabb were decided the Court thought that
an extra rule was necessary to give the government an
incentive to comply with prompt-presentment
requirements. The very same factors are still at work
today, aren't they?
MR. DREEBEN: No, I don't think that they
are, Justice Stevens, because the -- the critical thing
that the Court was doing in Mallory and McNabb was
trying to come up with a way to ensure that suspects
were advised of their rights to protect against abuses
in the interrogation process. And the Court's ultimate
constitutional solution to that lay years in the future.
It came in the form of Miranda.
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but I am not -- we are
not talking about a constitutional problem but a rule
problem encouraging compliance with the -- the -- with
the rule that requires prompt presentment.
MR. DREEBEN: I think that what the Court
was after-
JUSTICE STEVENS: I say that to the extent
-- to the extent that was a motivating factor in McNabb,
it seems to me that it would be precisely the same
motivating factor in McNabb.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think that it was not
the sole motivating factor in McNabb.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Not the sole, but it was a
motivating factor. And it would have equal strength
today as then.
MR. DREEBEN: No, I would not agree that it
would have equal strength.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Dreeben, wouldn't --
wouldn't you still have this disincentive which --
wouldn't you still have this disincentive, which is
considerable? If you -- if you exceed the time limit,
it may be taken into account in determining that the
confession was involuntary.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, certainly, Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that enough of a
disincentive? If you delay too long, that delay is one
of the factors to be taken into account in deciding
whether the confession was voluntary.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, excessive delay can be a
-- it is by statute a factor that will be taken into
account in determining --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what about Rule 5?
And Rule 5 doesn't say a word about voluntary. It says
unnecessary delay -- shall be brought before a
magistrate without unnecessary delay. So whatever the
balancing there may be in 3501, I think what you're
saying is that Rule 5(a), which just says bring
theoretically before a magistrate without unreasonable
delay, that that has no teeth; that that is effectively
unenforceable.
MR. DREEBEN: I think it is unenforceable by
the exclusion of a confession that results from what a
court concludes is unnecessary delay. And I think that
that is true for two reasons, by virtue of congressional
action and rulemaking action. And I think that as an
additional actor this Court, which struck that
supervisory powered balance in a pre-Miranda era, would
do well to consider whether the factors that motivated
it to suppress confessions in McNabb and Mallory should
still be evaluated the same way today.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But isn't your -- I'm
sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Rule 5 is about
unnecessary delay, and here we have a case, if I
remember the facts right, where the officer said, yes,
the reason we didn't bring him before a magistrate
sooner is because we wanted to get a confession from
him.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Ginsburg, what
happened in this case is that the suspect was given his
Miranda rights and waived them and agreed to give a
confession. There are three circuits and the D.C. local
court which all have concluded that a waiver of Miranda
rights waives the right to prompt presentment. So the
question of whether there was in fact unnecessary delay
that would constitute a violation of Rule 5 has not been
litigated in this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I must be losing the thread
of the argument. It seems to me that McNabb and Mallory
only provide punishment for excessive delay where there
has been a confession. Isn't that right?
MR. DREEBEN: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And so long as the length
of the -- the delay can still be considered as one of
the elements in determining that the confession -- that
the confession is involuntary, there is still a degree
of incentive based upon only the confession. Now, it --
it may not be as high a degree -- that it is
automatically excluded -- but the police are going to
have to consider that any confession they may get within
that period of excessive delay may be challengeable.
MR. DREEBEN: It is certainly challengeable
on voluntariness grounds. Now, the Court's motive-
JUSTICE STEVENS: It is still true they have
everything to gain and nothing to lose by continuing to
interrogate.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, they do have something
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: If they don't get the
confession within six hours, they haven't got it. So if
they continue on, their only purpose is to try to get a
voluntary confession.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Stevens, to the
extent that it is correct that a waiver of Miranda
rights waives the prompt presentment right and prevents
an objection based on whatever survives of
McNabb-Mallory, the officers are doing nothing wrong if
they obtain a valid Miranda waiver; and this was just
not a factor that the Court had on the horizon when it
decided McNabb and Mallory.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't there a -- a new
factor now that the Court has decided Miranda? And
you've argued that we should regard this in the
post-Miranda light, but I think there is at least one
way of doing that that cuts against the government's
argument and I would like your response to that.
That is that in the post-Miranda world in
practical terms, if a -- if a court in considering a
suppression motion finds that the Miranda warnings were
given and that after they were given this individual
said, okay, I'll talk, that is in practical terms the
end of the issue. The notion that there is a -- an
independent voluntariness concern is pretty much theory,
not practice.
Given what I think is the, kind of the
real-world effect of Miranda -- say the magic words, get
the defendant to say, I'll talk, that's it -- doesn't it
make sense to have a further safeguard in something like
the six-hour rule understood as preserving
McNabb-Mallory after the six hours?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Souter, I think
that is purely a question of policy of whether there
should be such a strong exclusionary rule that mandates
the barring from admission into evidence of a purely
voluntary confession where there's no dispute about its
voluntariness because the officers delayed beyond six
hours.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I agree with you; it
is an issue of policy. But I thought your whole
argument for considering this as a post-Miranda case was
in effect a -- a policy context in which you wanted us
to decide this.
MR. DREEBEN: It's a policy context that I
think Congress has decided in two different enactments,
and I think that if this Court were to reach it as a
matter of policy, it should revisit the balance that it
reached in McNabb-Mallory because of the changed legal
context. But this is a case about section 3501 and
about Federal Rule of Evidence 402.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I knew you were going to
get to 3501 eventually.
MR. DREEBEN: I am glad that I have finally
reached it.
(Laughter)
MR. DREEBEN: Section 3501 on its face says
nothing about excluding any evidence. What it says is
that in section (a) voluntary confessions are
admissible. In section (b) it says that in determining
voluntariness, a court will consider a variety of
factors under the totality of the circumstances,
including prearraignment delay. Then in subsection (c),
it attacks more directly the McNabb-Mallory rule. And
as originally formulated it would have wiped out
McNabb-Mallory altogether; there is no dispute about
that. After the bill was introduced there was a
modification of it on the floor of the Senate in which a
six-hour limitation was put in.
Now, the effect of that six hours is to say
that within six hours after the arrest delay by itself
can never be an exclusive grounds for suppression; it
just can't. And to that extent it overrules
McNabb-Mallory to the extent that McNabb-Mallory would
have allowed less than six hours of delay to serve as a
basis for suppressing evidence. Outside of six hours,
it does not say that evidence is suppressed. It simply
leaves that determination to other sources of law.
In the government's view, the primary source
of law that controls the answer to that question is
subsection (a), which says that voluntary confessions
are admissible, and I believe that, as Justice --
JUSTICE SOUTER: If that is the answer, why
do we need (c) -- I mean, why did Congress need (c) at
all?
MR. DREEBEN: Congress never needed (c); (c)
in the government's view was always superfluous, even at
the time when it directly said delays shall never be the
grounds for suppressing a confession. There was already
a provision in (a) that said voluntary confessions are
admissible and it was well understood that
McNabb-Mallory -- and this Court was very explicit on
the point -- excluded totally voluntary confessions.
So if this Court has nothing before it but
the text of the statute, subsection (a) makes voluntary
confessions admissible, and the only way that Petitioner
can get around that is to say that section 3501(c)
carved something out of subsection (a).
JUSTICE STEVENS: But if it doesn't, Mr.
Dreeben, what do the words "time limitation" mean in the
proviso?
MR. DREEBEN: That's the limitation on a --
the period during which a court cannot rely exclusively
on delay within the meaning of the statute. It simply
-- it carves out six hours from McNabb-Mallory plus
reasonable transportation delays, and it leaves the
six-hour -- after the six-hour period to other sources
of law.
Now, one source of law -- and this is where
Petitioner looks -- would be McNabb-Mallory. But
McNabb-Mallory is not a constitutional rule of decision.
This Court has been clear, most recently in the
Sanchez-Llamas decision, that it is a rule of
supervisory power created by this Court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You are really asking the
Court to overrule McNabb-Mallory, because you say
Congress provided six hours, no McNabb-Mallory, but
after six hours the test is voluntariness -- only
voluntariness. So there's nothing left under the
government's view of McNabb-Mallory.
MR. DREEBEN: That's correct, but the
modification, Justice Ginsburg, is that I think Congress
has displaced McNabb-Mallory. It obviously cannot
overrule a decision of this Court, but it can prescribe
a rule of law that takes precedence over a decision of
this Court that rests on its supervisory power.
Petitioner does not contend that
McNabb-Mallory was an interpretation of Rule 5 of the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, and I don't think
that he could do that. This Court was explicit that the
predecessor statute that existed before Rule 5 and
provided the prompt presentment requirement did not
address the issue of remedy.
And it's notable I think that in the
preliminary draft of the Rules of Criminal Procedure a
rule of exclusion was explicitly provided. The rule
would have said: "No statement made by a defendant in
response to interrogation by an officer or agent of the
government shall be admissible in evidence against him
if the interrogation occurs while the defendant was held
in custody in violation of this rule."
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the -- what if the
other reasons apply? I take it the words
"self-incriminating statement" in (e) means any adverse
evidence?
MR. DREEBEN: I think that's right,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now, there are a lot
of reasons we exclude evidence. You know, I mean -- it
might, for example, might not in the circumstance be
worth the confusion. It might not in the circumstance
be worth the time. It might violate -- I don't know,
there is like a whole -- there are many reasons.
So in your opinion, does section (a) mean to
set aside all the reasons? In other words, if for some
other reason this particular piece of self-incriminating
evidence, adverse evidence obtained after 30 hours,
violated the admission, violated some totally different
rule of evidence, as your opinion does (a) mean, judge,
it doesn't matter if it's triple hearsay or it doesn't
matter if it violates some authentication requirement,
it doesn't matter if it violates, you know, it has to be
relevant, pertinent, not a waste of time -- it doesn't
matter; admit it?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, of course it doesn't
mean that.
MR. DREEBEN: If the --
JUSTICE BREYER: So if it doesn't mean that,
then why does it mean that we should ignore this other
rule of evidence contained in Rule 5 of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, that's precisely my
point, Justice Breyer. The other rules that might
permit exclusion of a voluntary confession in the Rules
of Evidence are explicit, or they are there because the
courts interpreted that rule to require it. That's not
what happened in McNabb-Mallory, and I don't think
that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there are -- there
are, in other words, as you have heard, a number of
things that can happen when you hold a person, let's say
for 40 hours for 29. I mean, one thing that happens is
he doesn't learn how he gets out on bail. Another thing
he happens, he doesn't learn exactly what the charge is
against him. Another thing -- they are all listed in,
in Rule 5.
And -- and when you have an exclusionary
rule, you enforce not only what you are talking about,
which I understand, which is the voluntariness part, but
you also enforce all these other things that happen when
you bring a person before a magistrate and don't keep
him for 70 hours or something.
So why should we interpret (a) as setting
those other things aside and requiring us to overturn
McNabb and Mallory?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, McNabb and Mallory are
not constitutional decisions of this Court.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, of course not.
MR. DREEBEN: They were attempts to
effectuate a particular policy choice. That policy
choice was one that Congress was free to revisit, and I
submit it did revisit in two different provisions, one
in 3501(a) and the other in Federal Rule of Evidence
402.
JUSTICE BREYER: Did it say anything in the
legislative history, which interests me, that the
purpose of (a) is to overturn Mallory and McNabb?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Breyer, and I will
concede to you the legislative history on the point that
section (a) was considered to overrule Miranda and
subsection (c) was addressed to McNabb-Mallory.
JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Dreeben, Justice Breyer
suggested that there are rules of evidence other than
those based on the Constitution or McNabb-Mallory that
might result in the exclusion of a confession. Maybe
there are such rules, but I'm trying to think of them.
I can't think of what they might be. Certainly it's not
hearsay. Is it ever going to be ruled to be irrelevant?
Is it common for a confession to be excluded under Rule
403? Are there rules that would --
MR. DREEBEN: I think in theory Rule 403 is
such a rule. Rule 16, which requires discovery
obligations, contains its own authorization for an
exclusionary rule. And my answer to Justice Breyer on
those rules is that they are explicitly provided by
Congress. The difference in a Rule 5 --
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you familiar with cases
in which a defendant's confession has been excluded
under -- under 403?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Alito.
JUSTICE BREYER: I wasn't focusing on the
word "confession." I was focusing on the words in (e),
which were "any self-incriminating statement." And
that's why I asked you if you interpreted that to
include anything that the individual said after, say,
29 hours that might turn out to be adverse to that
defendant's interests. And your answer to that was yes.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And I think you are right.
I think we agree on that.
So, if the defendant said, if you look under
the rock you will find the writing such-and-such, it
might not be authenticated for that particular writing.
There are many reasons. It might be triple hearsay,
what he says. I mean, you know, there are a variety of
things, aren't there? Maybe I am wrong.
MR. DREEBEN: I think the general principle
is what the Court ought to be focused on here. And the
general principle is, yes, if there is some specific
provision that should be together with subsection (a) --
JUSTICE BREYER: The reason I brought that
up is not to be technical. The reason I brought it up
is to point out that there are many, many words that a
person could utter in confinement under 30 hours, which
in a variety of ways could stab him in the back without
it having anything to do with Miranda, without it having
anything to do with coerced confession.
And similarly, there are many reasons for
bringing him forward that have nothing to do with
either. And therefore, I wonder if all those reasons
could support retaining McNabb-Mallory, a matter about
which Congress said nothing.
MR. DREEBEN: I think it would be quite
extraordinary for the Court to decide to revive its
supervisory power decisions in McNabb and Mallory. They
clearly were aimed at the problem of incommunicado
detention with a suspect who did not know his Miranda
rights.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Dreeben, I tend to
think that what we should be focusing on is the language
of 3501. Can I bring you back to that? What I do not
understand about your argument is the following: The
six -- the six-hour safe harbor applies only when the
confession is made voluntarily, right?
I would think that the proviso likewise
assumes voluntariness. That is, the time limitation
contained in this subsection, it's a time limitation
applicable to voluntary confessions. And it says that
time limitation shall not apply in any case in which the
delay in bringing the person is beyond six hours is
found by the trial judge to be reasonable.
I think you have already voluntariness
assumed in the proviso, but you want us to go back and
re -- reconsider voluntariness under (a). I just don't
think that's -- that's a fair way to read it.
MR. DREEBEN: I think the statute, as we
read it, contains some overlap in voluntariness
requirement, and we interpret the voluntariness
reference in subsection (c) to really mean otherwise
voluntary; in other words, not to be deemed involuntary
solely on the basis of delay, but otherwise voluntary.
And in that sense section 3501(c) does
contain --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I am reading it that
way, too. Otherwise voluntary is in the safe harbor.
MR. DREEBEN: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Then when you have a
proviso, which refers to the time limitation contained
in this subsection, it's a time limitation upon
voluntary confessions.
MR. DREEBEN: It's a -- it's a limitation on
the time during which a judge may not rely on delay
alone to find a confession inadmissible. That's all
subsection (c) does. It says, judge, you may not find
the confession to be inadmissible solely because of
delay if it's within six hours plus reasonable
transportation delays.
And our interpretation of that language is
that the inadmissibility as you mentioned,
Justice Scalia, refers back to subsection (a), which
speaks about confessions that are admissible if they are
voluntarily given.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then why didn't the statute
say, instead of saying inadmissible, shall not be found
involuntary solely by reasons of delay. Because it
seems to me that your argument twain the two.
MR. DREEBEN: It is, and I think the reason
that it was written that way, Justice Souter, is it was
a direct attempt to make clear that McNabb-Mallory shall
not operate in the six-hour period after arrests and
before presentment.
It was an attempt to displace McNabb-Mallory
explicitly. Originally it was to displace it
altogether. As it ended up being written, it displaced
it for six hours. And our submission is that you read
the rest of the statute to determine what happens to
confessions that are taken outside of six hours. And I
would recognize that this makes subsection (c) in
certain respects unnecessary to achieve the result that
voluntariness controls.
But the most that Petitioner argues and he
made it very clear today, the most that he argues is
that section 3501(c) leaves McNabb-Mallory to live
another day for confessions outside of six hours. And
if that is true, then the government's position is that
Congress, in 1975 in Rule 402 of the Federal Rules of
Evidence provided the bases on which relevant evidence
can be excluded. And it listed four sources and they
are the Constitution, an act of Congress, a rule of
evidence, or -- and this is the relevant one -- other
rules prescribed by the Supreme Court pursuant to
statutory authority.
And what Congress meant by that were rules
that this Court promulgates pursuant to Rules Enabling
Act authority. It did not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's Rule 5.
MR. DREEBEN: No. Rule 5 it certainly
prescribed pursuant to Rules Enabling Act authority,
although it was originally enacted by Congress. But
Rule 5 contains no exclusionary rule.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And as you have said
without the exclusionary rule, Rule 5(a) has no teeth at
all. And I agree with that. It says -- it's a straight
out command, no unnecessary delay. And isn't the reason
for 5(a) exactly what happened here? This was a case
where the police officers were trying to admit that the
sole reason that they didn't bring Corley before a
magistrate properly was to extract a confession.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Ginsburg --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's exactly what
McNabb-Mallory was trying to --
MR. DREEBEN: There is a crucial difference
between this Court deciding that there is a command in
the Rules of Criminal Procedure and we as a court are
going to back it up by an enforcement mechanism, which
is the supervisory power route, and Congress saying what
we intend is that a violation of this rule produced
inadmissibility of a confession. Congress has never
said the latter. This Court, in promulgating rules of
evidence, have never said the latter.
And what that leaves the Court with is the
option of persisting in McNabb-Mallory as a supervisory
powers decision or following the text of Rule 402 of the
Federal Rules of Evidence, which says that there isn't
any authority to say that relevant evidence is out of
the case simply because of the Court's views on
supervisory powers --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Dreeben, do you think
the Rule 402 argument is strong enough to prevail even
section -- the statute that has never been enacted?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, I do, Justice Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The statute was really
unnecessary to overrule McNabb-Mallory, in your view?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Congress focused on the
problem of confessions in section 3501 and it dealt with
McNabb-Mallory in section 3501(c). We submit that the
text of the statute provides an answer to McNabb-Mallory
in section 3501(a).
JUSTICE STEVENS: But it is superfluous and
unnecessary answer if your interpretation of the rules
is correct?
MR. DREEBEN: It came many years before,
Justice Stevens. In 1968 when Congress reacted to this
Court's Miranda decision and to McNabb-Mallory, it
passed section 3501. Rule 402 is a very general rule
that says the policy of the federal courts is that we
are not going to have evidence rules made any more by
case-by-case decision by the Supreme Court. We are
going to have them promulgated in a code of Federal
rules, and if the Court wants to change them, it can do
that through the revisory committee process, and it
would be open to Congress at any point, which has
superior ability to gather facts and to survey the
impact of whether there is a pattern of violations of
rule 5 that warrants the very strong --
JUSTICE STEVENS: We could never acknowledge
or recognize a new privilege, then, for example --
MR. DREEBEN: No.
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- psychiatrists or
something like that?
MR. DREEBEN: No, I think the Court did that
and quite properly did it, Justice Stevens, because rule
502 of the Federal Rules of Evidence -- 501 or 502 says
that principles of privilege shall be developed in light
of reason and experience, and so it was a specific grant
to this Court of the authority to do that.
But beyond that Congress did not intend that
the Court use supervisory powers to exclude relevant
evidence. There is a rulemaking process; if the bench
and bar want to get together and conclude as they did
not conclude in 1943 -- this is the point I was trying
to make to Justice Breyer -- in 1943 after this Court's
decision in McNabb, there was explicit consideration of
an exclusionary rule provision in rule 5; it engendered
enormous controversy; it was rejected; it was taken out
of the rule and it was never promulgated.
So McNabb-Mallory exists not by virtue of
the rulemaking process but by virtue of a supervisory
decision of this Court more than half a century ago in
an entirely different legal climate, in a climate where
the costs of excluding a reliable, probative confession
were not balanced against the benefits, if any, to be
achieved by enforcing of a prompt present requirement
through exclusion.
Since that time this Court's Miranda
jurisprudence has made it far more inappropriate for the
Court to conclude that the enforcement of a rule-based
mechanism which serves as a prophylactic to protect
voluntariness should now result in exclusion of a
confession when rule 501 says voluntary confessions come
in and section -- and rule 402 says that relevant
evidence comes in unless excluded by four sources --
not-
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there any indication
of the rules advisory committee, any of their notes,
that 402 was meant to overturn McNabb-Mallory?
MR. DREEBEN: No, I -- Justice Ginsburg, the
rules advisory committee notes I think reflect an
expectation that McNabb-Mallory was the law. Our
submission is that the text of 402 is simply
inconsistent with that, because it is quite explicit in
limiting the sources of rules that can bar the admission
of admissible evidence; and the phrase that is in 402,
which is on page 29 of our brief, is "rules prescribed
by the Supreme Court pursuant to statutory authority."
Now the advisory committee drafters may have
thought that that subsumed rule 5, but I think that is a
legal question for this Court, and the correct answer to
that is McNabb-Mallory is a rule of supervisory power,
not a rule promulgated by this Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Dreeben.
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. McColgin, you
have four minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID L. McCOLGIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. McCOLGIN: Thank you, Your Honor.
Rule 402 as it was enacted clearly was not
intended to overturn existing rules of inadmissibility
such as McNabb-Mallory. We know that because the
advisory committee notes specifically identify it as a
rule of inadmissibility that would survive after rule
402. It was --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it may not
have been intended to do that but doesn't its language
on its face cover that?
MR. McCOLGIN: Not at all, because it was
statutorily based and it was viewed as being statutorily
based, because it was it was based on the existing
statutes at the time of McNabb which were seen as
precluding presentment delay. And then after the
enactment of -- of rule 5, it was seen as based on that
as well.
After -- in 1968 Mallory was also seen as
being incorporated into 3501(c) which is clear from the
citation in the advisory note to both Mallory and
3501(c). So it was viewed when it was enacted as
leaving in place McNabb-Mallory, because McNabb-Mallory
was viewed as being pursuant to statutory authority --
pursuant to statutory authority because it was enforcing
statutory rights.
So rule 402 clearly does not in any way
overturn McNabb-Mallory.
I would like to address very quickly the
Miranda issue and note that you know, certainly,
although Miranda came into effect after McNabb-Mallory,
Miranda itself in rule 32 notes that the existence of
the Miranda warnings should not be seen as a basis for
disregarding the rights under McNabb and Mallory and the
importance of that exclusionary rule. So Miranda itself
recognized that it was still important to have a
protection against presentment delay, and I think the
facts of this case illustrate that very well.
We have in this case a flagrant and
deliberate violation of the right of prompt presentment,
where the agents admitted freely that they delayed the
presentment in order to obtain the confession. If --
again, if the Third Circuit were to be affirmed in this
case, it would be telling law enforcement around the
country that that sort of flagrant conduct is
permissible.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that --
that sort of flagrant conduct would not be an issue if
it had been done within six hours, right? Assuming it
was a voluntary confession?
MR. McCOLGIN: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The purpose of the
law enforcement officers, if it's voluntary, is
irrelevant under six hours.
MR. McCOLGIN: As long as it is under six
hours, that's correct, there is no problem; and that's
because within six hours there is no delay. Congress
has determined that anything less than six hours is not
within --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, doesn't it
seem odd that the focus on flagrant conduct at 6:01 as
being as important as you are emphasizing, but not --
but totally irrelevant at 5:59?
MR. McCOLGIN: There has to be line-drawing
in this sort of case, so when you get close to the line,
you may have results that are dramatically different.
In this case we are far outside the line. The second
confession was 26 and a half hours after the arrest; and
as I have noted and as this Court has noted, it was a
deliberate delay for the purpose of obtaining the
confessions.
Where we have such purposeful delay,
Congress left McNabb-Mallory in place to address
precisely such flagrant conduct.
JUSTICE ALITO: Can you waive the right, the
5(a) right?
MR. McCOLGIN: Yes, Your Honor, as long as
it is waived within the six-hour time period, and as
long as it is an expressed waiver of a right to prompt
presentment, it can be waived. In this case, of course,
there was no waiver; there wasn't even a Miranda waiver
until well -- well after the six hours.
If there is no further questions, thank you,
Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:14 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
51:24 49:7 argue 11:9 authorization bench 46:14
13:1,14 agent 35:7 10:15,16,19 29:10 8:13,16 19:9
27:3,8 agents 3:11 17:2,2 22:13 available 17:11 31:7 40:25
25:16 50:2 argument 1:12 17:15 19:12 46:12
agreed 28:17 31:11 40:17 35:17 36:9,10
35:2 altogether 21:21 arrestee 16:2 backstop 24:25 27:18 28:12
51:9 32:10 42:19 arrests 42:15 back-door 20:24 37:11 40:16
12:2,9 analysis 9:14 asked 4:20 39:4 23:14 28:3 brought 27:15
14:7 analytic 15:14 asking 34:9 31:17 39:21,22
answer 22:2 assign 18:25 balanced 47:2 built 6:24
39:7 assume 15:5 bar 46:15 47:22 C
12:4
13:11 45:7,10 48:3 assumed 41:3 barring 31:5 c 2:1 3:1,24 5:14
20:15 anyway 21:14 assumes 40:21 based 9:10 5:25 9:14,24
33:1,10 apart 25:10 assuming 5:22 11:23 12:20 10:2,24 11:1
35:8 APPEARAN... 50:10 29:8 30:2 38:9 12:7,9 13:19
47:23 1:14 attach 15:9 48:24,25,25 13:21 14:4
47:22 application 7:14 attempt 42:14 bases 43:7 38:6 41:9,24
39:6 35:12 40:24 authentication 13:7 22:13 carves 11:2
23:9,12 6:25 7:3 43:12 behalf 1:16,18 carving 21:2
17:16,21 34:6 42:14 12:19 14:18,23 27:25 convenience 4:2
21:7 43:2 49:6 15:2,13,15 consider 20:18 Corley 1:3 3:4
clearly 8:3 22:15 16:10,24 17:1 28:4 29:11 3:11 44:2
28:10,16 23:21 40:11 17:7,10,24 32:5 correct 4:8 23:2
31:11,19 48:14 49:13 18:4,15 19:9 considerable 29:3,25 34:15
43:25 climate 46:25,25 19:23,25 20:6 27:2 45:11 48:3
49:24,25 close 51:1 20:13,14 21:20 consideration 50:12,17
51:1,3,16 code 45:19 27:4,9,23 21:13 46:18 cost 7:16
codification 28:13,18 29:2 considerations costs 47:1
codifies 5:14 29:23 31:6 considered 19:1 23:25
coerced 17:1 38:10,14,23 20:13,20 24:12 country 50:6
27:5 collapse 5:3 confessions 3:13 consistent 6:12 3:10 4:12,14
38:12 Columbia 23:18 3:13 6:20 8:13 constitute 28:22 4:15 5:1,10,23
49:16 come 26:2 47:10 11:23 23:6 Constitution 6:14 7:1,3,7
command 43:24 33:9,12,15 constitutional 24:7,9,21
comment 22:7 42:6,22 43:4 34:5 37:17 27:24 28:2,19
47:15,18 48:1 confinement consultation 33:11,13,22
24:3,6 completely 9:10 conflicts 9:19 contain 41:13 39:18 40:9
50:8 9:24 14:19 confusion 35:20 contained 36:15 43:11,14 44:8
51:21 compliance 26:9 Congress 3:19 40:22 41:18 44:9,14,16
comply 25:16,21 5:10,12 6:16 41:7 43:20 46:11,13,24
conceded 15:13 22:15 23:4,8 continue 29:22 45:16
46:16 47:7 34:11,16 37:21 control 10:8 29:14 44:21
concludes 27:24 43:6,9,13,19 controls 9:20 47:5
8:21 10:5 develop 16:18 28:15 29:3,13 enactment 49:3
25:16 12:25 13:1,3,7 developed 21:7 31:14,23 32:1 31:15
35:4 15:1,4,16,22 24:10 46:9 33:5,19,21 encouraging
16:4,19 17:6 die 9:12 34:15 35:15 26:9
18:8,10,13 38:21 44:7 37:16,19 38:3 enforce 17:12
44:7 23:10,11 27:7 31:15 36:2 39:8,17 40:8 enforcement
35:10 27:20,24 28:10 51:2 41:21 42:12 25:14 44:10
33:23 33:7 45:12 46:3,6 49:11
3:7 48:11 51:6,8 disparagingly ensure 14:11
42:2 displaced 34:17 effect 6:22 7:18 equally 9:8
31:15 51:6 dispute 31:6 13:10 15:22 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3
11:21 disregard 9:15 30:22 31:12 established 11:1
34:5,7 1:18 disregarding effectively 7:16 establishes 10:4
44:18 depending 20:9 49:20 27:20 establishing
46:18 depends 3:14 distance 19:11 effectuate 37:20 17:4
5:3,4 6:6,6 19:16 20:2,12 effectuation evaluated 28:6
40:10 Deputy 1:17 distances 21:23 either 40:5 evidence 12:4
18:11 16:16 20:11,21 doing 16:8 20:24 eliminating 35:8,14,18
30:23 21:3,21 32:22 21:2 23:12 23:11 36:1,1,3,15,20
39:11 determinations 26:1 30:3,11 emergency 37:23 38:8
determine 42:21 drafters 48:1 emphasizing 44:15,19,20
39:7 50:19 51:2 empty 17:19 47:12,23
37:4 46:18 47:21 41:23,24 9:18,20,21 43:25
44:5 explicitly 35:5 finds 30:15 10:7,8,16 happens 6:9
46:2 exploitation 4:17,19 6:21 General's 4:19 42:21
20:1 express 18:10 20:5 21:2,19 27:13 28:9,15 11:10,20 12:1
expressed 51:15 five 13:14 34:9,16 43:16 12:15 13:1
29:25 32:17,18 50:6,9,22 47:14,17 hear 3:3 8:15
extract 44:3 floor 22:10 25:20 28:17 hearsay 36:4
35:18 40:9 focus 50:22 28:16 30:16,16 held 10:11 35:9
extreme 23:10 focused 39:18 30:21 42:7 high 29:9
33:12 F focusing 39:1,2 go 24:8 41:3 38:1,4
43:8 face 8:7 12:10 40:15 goes 15:22 hold 37:1
32:1 48:22 following 40:17 going 9:13,14 Honor 4:8 6:1
28:21 force 24:25 38:13 44:10 10:20 12:7,18
24:9 26:14,16,18,20 formulated 32:9 govern 11:11 16:5,25 18:1
35:5 27:11 30:5,8 forth 15:6 government 19:18 20:4,25
38:10 factors 12:5,17 forward 40:4 9:22 10:22 22:6,12 23:2
13:14 19:22 found 7:25 11:8 22:12 23:20 24:2
31:4 27:8 28:4 32:6 42:9 35:8 51:13,20
38:19 facts 28:11 foundation 7:6 government's horizon 30:5
46:19 45:23 49:24 four 43:8 47:12 3:21 8:24 hospital 20:18
fair 41:5 48:10 11:17 19:20 hours 6:9,14,21
familiar 38:22 freely 50:2 34:14 43:5 8:17,18,23 9:6
FBI 3:11 24:1 30:24 29:14 32:16 20:3 21:2 23:3
48:15,25 3:12 24:15 future 26:5 32:14,15,19,20
37:23 43:6 G 3:1 hands 5:7 15:18 39:6,24 40:25
46:8 gather 45:23 happen 37:1,10 43:4 50:10,15
indicates 6:19 41:10 42:10 38:7,7,19,22
13:6,9
33:25
inform 19:1 49:16 50:9 44:23 45:1,2,9
18:22 January 1:9 50:13,21 51:11
48:3
intend 44:12 8:14 19:10,12 K 23:22 38:1,4
50:23 intended 6:20 41:24 37:11 let's 22:4 37:1
24:24 48:15,21 judicial 24:22 KENNEDY light 4:13 6:15
11:1,3,5 intends 17:3 47:6 14:9,13,17,22 likewise 40:20
13:4,8 interest 17:12 justice 1:18 3:3 15:3,12 16:8 limit 6:20 18:8
14:5 interests 38:1 3:9 4:5,9 5:13 16:23 22:22 27:2
22:20 39:7 5:19 6:11,23 kind 30:21 limitation 3:20
44:13 interpret 11:19 7:19 8:12 9:7 knew 31:21 5:4 6:4,4,7,8
37:13 41:8 10:1,14 11:9 know 35:18,21 6:18,21 7:15
8:2,5,21 3:14,15,21 13:5,9,13,22 40:12 48:16 40:21,22,24
11:18,21 4:23 8:24 14:1,9,13,17 49:16 41:18,19,21
12:20 10:13 11:17 14:22 15:3,12 limited 21:4
42:9 34:22 42:3 15:20,25 16:8 L limiting 47:22
interpreted 18:2,17 19:6 48:11 line-drawing
interrogate 21:9 22:1,11 5:14,17 6:3,17 link 14:19
introduced 28:9,15,24 Laughter 31:25 live 9:12 43:3
involuntariness 30:7 31:2,9,21 21:7 24:13 long 8:16 22:24
18:12 34:16 35:11,16 34:2,3,19 50:16 51:13,15
27:4 29:7 37:18,25 38:3 learn 37:3,4 20:9
39:11 16:13,25 17:14 49:14,17 51:9 necessary 20:15 50:14
meaning 33:23 10:21 11:3 operate 42:15
18:24,25 McNabb 4:16 35:13 44:13,15,25 36:3
20:19 4:20,25 5:1,8 meant 14:25 46:1,21 opportunity
22:25 10:25 24:10,17 22:20 43:13 new 10:18 30:7 18:25
27:16 24:21 25:2,5 47:16 46:2 option 44:17
28:12 25:19 26:1,14 mechanism 16:9 nondestructive oral 1:11 2:2 3:7
44:3 26:16,18 28:5 44:10 47:8 19:8 24:4
37:15,16 38:2 mentioned 42:4 note 49:7,16 12:10 50:3
10:21,22 49:1,20 message 17:15 notes 22:16,17 originally 32:9
12:24 McNabb-Mall... MICHAEL 1:17 47:15,18 48:17 42:18 43:19
10:25 4:12 5:5,14 6:2 minute 22:8,10 notion 30:18 outside 3:20 5:5
25:2 6:5,7,8,9,22 minutes 48:10 number 36:25 5:9 7:18 8:11
26:1 7:6,10,15,18 Miranda 4:13 numerous 10:10 12:14,20 20:13
30:6 8:3,4,9,11,20 26:6 28:17,19 21:5 23:7,24
38:2 8:22 11:7,22 29:25 30:4,8 O 32:20 42:22
49:5,7 11:22 13:7 30:15,22 38:5 O 2:1 3:1 43:4 51:3
14:10,20,25 40:1,12 45:14 objection 30:2 overlap 41:7
31:17 21:14,17,21 modeled 23:20 obtain 3:12 30:4 overrules 32:17
40:6 22:14,18,19 modification 50:3 overturn 4:16
23:6,9,23 30:3 32:12 34:16 obtained 15:16 22:18 37:14
2:3,8 3:6 32:10,18,18 motion 30:15 obtaining 15:2 48:15 49:14
4:8,14 33:11,24 34:4 motivated 28:4 17:7 51:6 overturned 4:20
6:1,17 7:2 34:5,10,11,14 motivating obviously 34:17 22:14
8:18 9:16 34:17,22 36:22 26:14,16,18,20 occurs 35:9
11:16 38:6,9 40:6 motive 29:14 odd 6:23 50:22 P
42:14,17 43:3 Office 4:19 P 3:1
44:6,17 45:3,6 N officer 19:13 PA 1:16
14:3,12 45:7,14 46:22 N 2:1,1 3:1 28:11 35:7 page 2:2 4:2
47:16,19 48:4 nature 16:21,21 officers 15:18 7:20,21 47:24
37:9 42:1 5:11 24:16 25:16 33:9 39:20
39:13 25:13 33:12 prescribed 36:16 44:9 provisions 11:15
18:10 39:23 45:22 present 47:3 45:21 46:14,23 proviso 6:4 19:7
13:15 31:3,10,12,14 14:25 15:1,4,9 18:13,14,18,20 prudential 4:15
31:17 37:20,20 15:17 16:6,19 19:3 25:7 7:4
18:23
16:19 17:5,8 26:10 28:20 psychiatrists
politics 22:3 17:13,18 18:14 30:1 35:1 47:3 46:4
23:1,5,7 position 14:9 18:15,18,20 50:1 51:15 pull 5:1
29:12
20:5 19:3 25:7 prompt-prese... punishment
34:1 20:5 43:5 26:10 28:20 25:21 29:1
51:14 possible 15:21 30:1 35:1 promulgated purely 31:3,5
50:7 30:10,13 31:11 preserving promulgates 17:17 18:7,9
19:2 powered 28:3 pretty 30:19 46:7 17:21 51:8
39:24
46:13 prevent 14:25 17:4 47:8 13:19 14:10
30:17 pre-Miranda 47:8 21:22
2:4,9 3:8 32:7 primary 25:13 14:24 49:10,11
34:4,21 preceded 24:16 32:23 protection 7:10 pushed 18:8
48:12 precedence principle 8:20 49:23 put 4:11 32:13
precedent 4:25 15:20 23:3 14:15 17:8 Q
precedents 4:18 principles 16:1 provided 6:16 20:5 21:19
7:11 13:6 predecessor problem 9:8,9 7:23 45:7 questions 23:15
23:7,10 34:25 19:7 26:8,9 providing 8:7 24:1 51:19
51:9 preliminary 40:11 45:5 provision 8:10 quickly 49:15
reference 8:3 respects 42:24 14:10 16:1 41:15
refers 41:18 1:19 2:6 24:5 21:10,15 22:15 30:24
reflect 47:18 35:7 24:9,15,22,22 34:7
11:25 reiterated 24:10 result 38:10 26:10 27:13,14 saying 5:20,22
42:20 rejected 46:20 42:24 47:9 27:18 28:9,22 7:2,4 8:22
relevant 23:18 51:2 32:8 34:5,7,19 42:9 44:11
34:9 47:11 37:21,22 36:15,15,21 13:10,13 14:1
45:2 reliable 47:1 revisory 45:21 37:6,8,23 27:14,18 32:1
rely 12:15,16 rewriting 11:18 38:19,21 43:6 39:15 40:23
35:25 remain 4:11 11:12 13:5 43:20,22,22 44:19 45:16
42:12 remains 5:23 14:24 16:6 44:12,18,24 46:8 47:10,11
44:2 remedy 16:10 17:8,18,19 45:15,15,25 Scalia 11:9 12:2
17:10,14,20 18:13,14,19 46:7,19,19,21 12:11,14,22
23:4 remember 28:11,20 29:2 48:4,5,14,18 14:1 19:6,19
41:1 19:17 28:11 30:1 35:15 48:18 49:3,13 20:8,23 26:24
render 10:9 39:9 40:19 49:18,21 27:6 28:7,24
17:5 rendered 11:24 51:11,12,15 rulemaking 40:14 41:14,17
19:14 18:15 19:2 24:14,18 rules 16:1 24:15 Scott 22:8
35:12,18 require 36:21 24:21 26:3 25:3,16 34:23 second 3:21 4:21
39:14 required 24:13 28:17,20 30:1 35:4 36:16,18 6:12 51:3
42:10 requirement 40:13 49:12,20 36:19 38:8,11 section 25:2
48:11 18:18 24:25 ROBERTS 3:3 43:11,13,14,18 33:16 35:23
47:3 24:3 48:6,9,20 45:10,17,20 43:3 44:25
25:22 51:21 47:22,24 48:15 47:11
11:18 20:17,21 rose 18:11 22:11
38:17 route 44:11 S seen 49:1,3,5,19
requiring 37:14 rule 3:16,19 S 2:1 3:1 seized 22:24
51:14 9:4,10 11:6 9:24 10:1,2,24 survive 48:18
sole 26:18,19 27:11 33:14,23 13:19,21,24,25 suspect 24:13,18
12:20,23 41:11 statutes 10:6,10 41:9,19,24 9:4 13:18,20
Solicitor 1:17 statutorily subsection(c) system 15:20
somebody 22:3 4:22 5:21 25:2 T
soon 17:5 43:12 47:25 succeed 9:13 take 13:14 19:19
21:14
33:23 22:11 30:7 46:1,4,7 superior 45:23 37:8
47:20 31:2,9 33:2 straight 43:23 supervisory 4:7 technical 39:22
8:1
special 21:10 strong 6:18 31:4 34:8,20 40:10
9:6
12:21 10:7,7,9,11,15 struck 23:8,12 46:13,23 48:4 term 6:13
17:11 10:17,18 39:19 23:14 28:2 support 40:6 terms 9:3 12:13
20:3 46:10 structure 3:23 supposition 9:11 14:8 30:14,17
29:21 specifically 5:2,3 21:1 suppress 14:18 test 34:12
32:14 24:24 48:17 structured 4:24 28:5
34:11,12 State 22:3 stuff 8:16 17:24 32:21
10:18
42:1
43:4 9:21,23 14:11 21:13 14:23 16:10
47:20
35:6,13 submission 32:20 33:8 textual 9:7,8,14
51:18 39:3 42:20 47:20 suppression thank 3:9 23:25
6:13 States 1:1,6,12 45:6 32:16 51:19,21
8:10 20:6 3:5 21:23 submitted 51:22 Supreme 1:1,12 theoretically
41:18,19,22 20:19 21:16 46:22,23 warrants 45:25
38:16 51:14 underneath 5:2 8:9 12:4,6 1:18
28:6 40:17 voluntariness 51:17
12:25 told 4:10 30:25 33:10 11:14,20,25 way 9:22 10:2,5
totality 32:6 unenforceable 12:9 13:20 10:8 20:24
totally 33:12 17:18 27:21,22 14:7,11,23 24:17,25 26:2
25:13,24 touching 6:5 United 1:1,6,12 17:3 29:14 33:15 41:5,15
27:17 transportation 3:4 30:19 31:7 42:13 49:13
28:1 19:11,16 20:2 unnecessary 32:5 34:12,13 ways 39:25
31:2
27:15,16,24 37:9 40:21 Wednesday 1:9
34:16 21:4,10,12,15 28:10,21 42:24 41:2,4,7,8 we're 5:21 6:5
35:3,15 21:25 33:25 43:24 45:3,10 42:25 47:9 wholly 16:10
38:11,12 42:2 unreasonable voluntary 8:19 wiped 32:9
39:9,10 travel 21:23 8:6 16:3 27:19 9:6,21,23 wonder 40:5
40:8,15 traveled 19:12 unrelated 16:10 11:23 13:11,14 word 9:1,2
41:2,5,6 19:16 20:3 use 6:19 46:13 14:2,19 15:14 11:20 14:5
44:23 treatment 20:18 uses 6:3 16:11,11,17,24 27:14 39:2
47:18 trial 7:25 19:10 utter 39:24 18:4 27:9,14 words 8:14
49:23 41:1 29:23 31:6 21:11 30:22
31:10 trust 18:3,6 25:17 30:4 41:15,20 47:10 work 10:6 25:22
try 29:22 variety 32:5 50:11,14 worked 10:8
44:1,6 46:16 view 22:5 25:1 waived 28:17 26:25 27:1
Turning 3:24 34:14 45:3 waiver 28:19 written 3:19
6:3,4,6,7 5:24 9:3 11:15 views 44:21 waives 28:20 39:16
7:15 12:13 14:8 violate 35:21 30:1
12:15,16 25:1 27:25 violated 36:2,2 walks 19:25 X
15:22 31:15 37:22 violates 36:5,6 want 6:14 8:15 x 1:2,7
20:6 42:11 violation 18:13 9:9 15:3 41:3
23:1,5,7 types 23:10 18:14 22:25 46:15 Y
28:22 35:10 wanted 21:23 years 26:5 45:12
25:18 U 44:12 50:1 28:13 31:12 yellow 4:2 7:20
33:7,19 ultimate 19:22 violations 25:7 wants 45:20
45:24 warnings 30:15 Z
36:7
45:15 47:11,16
1:5 3:4 47:20,23 48:14
49:13
403 38:15,16,24
1:13 3:2 48 2:9 23:3
51:23
4:12 5
38:17 5 16:1 24:15,25
24:10 25:14 27:13,14
28:9,22 34:22
24:11 34:25 36:15
7:9 45:13 37:6 38:21
43:16,17,20
43:6 45:25 46:19
10:10,12 48:2 49:3
16:6 27:18
43:22,25 51:12
1:9 5:59 50:24
1:9 501 46:8 47:10
10:11,11 502 46:8,8
2:6
51:4 6
37:2 39:6 6:01 50:22
7 4:2 7:20,21
2:4 70 37:12
36:1 39:24
49:18
4:12 12:3
27:17
32:1
45:5,15
37:23
3:15,18
4:24 5:8
33:16
43:3
49:6,8
37:2
22:13,15,17
25:3
37:24
44:18,24
