IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-1059
EURODIF S.A., ET AL.; :
and :
USEC INC., ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 07-1078
EURODIF S.A., ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 4, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner in No.
07-1059.
H. BARTOW FARR, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioners in No. 07-1078.
CAITLIN J. HALLIGAN, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of
the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner in No. 07-1059 3
H. BARTOW FARR, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners in No. 07-1078 17
CAITLIN J. HALLIGAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner in No. 07-1059 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 07-1059, United States v. Eurodif
and 07-1058, USEC v. Eurodif.
Mr. Stewart.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
IN NO. 07-1059
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
The question presented in this case is
whether the provision of enriched uranium under
separative work unit or SWU contracts is covered by the
Federal antidumping duty law. The resolution of that
question turns on whether the performance of SWU
contracts results in merchandise being sold in the
United States. The Department of Commerce, which is the
Federal agency entrusted by Congress with the
administration of the antidumping duty law, concluded
after an extensive investigation that SWU contracts do
result in sales of enriched uranium. That determination
was reasonable and should be sustained by this Court.
Now, the fundamental bargain in a SWU
contract is that the customer, the utility, provides a
combination of feedstock or feed uranium plus cash, and
receives in return a specified quantity and assay of
enriched uranium, and by "assay" I mean the percentage
of weight of U-235 within the final product. Now, the
customer has discretion to choose among varying
combinations of feedstock and cash in order to complete
the transaction for a particular quantity and assay of
enriched uranium; but the enricher has its own
discretion. That is, having received the consideration
paid by the utility, the enricher is free to make its
own determination based on economic considerations as to
the relative proportions of feedstocks and SWUs that
should be used to make a given quantity of enriched
uranium.
So the overall -- the character of the
overall transaction is comfortably characterized as a
sale, because it involves the acquisition by the utility
of a product, merchandise, that it didn't own at the
outset of the transaction in exchange for consideration.
JUSTICE BREYER: I can imagine you could
have a grain mill and they have lots and lots of grain
absolute identical one to the other. And the farmer
takes his grain up and they operate on it, and then he
drives away with the grain, milled. Now, it may make no
difference to anybody whether the identical molecules
are the same; and I think in such a case you'd say they
are processing it; they are not buying and selling it.
MR. STEWART: Well, indeed, as we've
explained in our opening brief, at common law the
distinction between a bailment and a sale in that type
of circumstance depended upon whether the miller or the
equivalent processor was under an obligation to return
the very same thing in processed form. And if that
was --
JUSTICE BREYER: You are saying if we have
that, in fact, if the -- if the exact situation, if some
farmers up in North Dakota send their grain just to be
milled -- it's their grain -- up in Canada, and they
come back, and it -- you know, it may not be the
identical molecule, but it's identically the same; they
have done this for 100 years -- now suddenly this -- the
Commerce Department is going to say, that's a sale, and
the antidumping statutes apply?
MR. STEWART: We are saying that Commerce
could treat it as a sale. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, would it or not?
MR. STEWART: I think Commerce in that
hypothetical -- again, if we were talking about grain
being provided by the customer to a miller overseas --
overseas, and then the finished product being brought
back into this country, I think the logic of the
Commerce determination here would suggest that it would
be a sale.
JUSTICE BREYER: I agree with you, and I
just wonder, what I would like to know, is if any
businessman involved in any of these or related things
before this decision of the Commerce Department would
have thought that that is how the Commerce Department
would have treated such a transaction?
MR. STEWART: Well, I don't think that
Commerce had before this incident dealt with exactly
this type of situation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but common law would
have treated it that way, you say?
MR. STEWART: Common law would have treated
it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's pretty good
authority.
MR. STEWART: It certainly suggests that
Commerce could permissibly treat it as a sale.
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know. I'm
asking -- the question is the same as the last case, to
me: Not whether they could have done it; sure they
could have done it. My question is based on my question
of whether they had a rule that any reasonable person
would have thought that is how they treated it --
MR. STEWART: I --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because after all, you have
three precedents in related areas, not the direct area
but in related areas, that suggest that they wouldn't
have treated the millers that way.
MR. STEWART: I'm not sure exactly which
precedents you mean. If -- the one that is -- the
administrative determination that is cited most
frequently is SRAMS from Taiwan, in which the design
house provided, I believe it was a design mask to the
foundry, and the foundry manufactured the finished
equipment and in concluding that it was the design house
rather than the foundry that was properly treated as the
producer of the goods, the Commerce Department relied in
part on the fact that the design house had intellectual
property rights in the design mask.
JUSTICE BREYER: You know what, I'm thinking
of those things, they're something called "tollers." I
don't know exactly what tollers are. They seem to be
like people who give haircuts. They're sort of
servicers of some kind. They're talking about tollers
and -- and subcontractors. And that is a related area.
MR. STEWART: That's correct. And the SRAMs
cases is one of the toller or subcontractor cases. And
the Department of Commerce relied in part on the fact
that the design house had intellectual property rights
in the design mask. So it was not fungible property, it
was not an input that the foundry could have gotten from
another source.
The other thing we would say about the grain
hypothetical is that when you hear about the farmer
providing grain to the miller or the utilities providing
feedstock to the enrichers, it may conjure up images of
a tangible good that is in the physical possession of
the farmer or the utility that is then physically
transferred to the enricher. In the case of the miller
that is correct.
But the way that a utility provides
feedstock to an enricher is not by taking physical
possession of the feedstock and then by transporting it.
Rather, the utility simply makes financial arrangements
with the supplier of feedstock, basically cuts a check
or transfers funds --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Stewart, can I ask a
question about the scope of discretion involved here?
Assume the facts were not exactly as they are here, it
is not a fungible product, but that each shipment was
separately identified and each shipment was processed as
a different batch in France and then sent back. That I
assume would not normally be treated as a sale of goods?
MR. STEWART: Well, I think that Commerce's
determination suggests, without squarely holding, that
it would treat that as a sale of goods because it would
involve substantial transformation of the original item.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's really what I
wanted to ask you. Even if the facts were more extreme,
just as in the example I gave, do you think the Commerce
Department would have discretion to treat that as a sale
of goods?
MR. STEWART: We do. And I think it's
important, to carry on with the thought I was sketching
out previously about the way in which the raw materials
are provided to the enricher.
If you imagine my buying a suit from a
tailor, and the tailor says: The price is $600; $300 of
that accounts for the cost of the cloth; $300 is the
labor that's involved in sewing it into a suit.
Clearly, that's a sale of merchandise, even though the
price has been broken up --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But then supposing they
send the suit back to a different person for
alterations, and they say, well, this is part of the
sale, so we want to treat it as a sale of goods?
MR. STEWART: Well, the alterations would
just be a finishing process and that wouldn't involve
substantial --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What is the difference
between that and what we've got here?
MR. STEWART: But the point I was going to
make about the suit, and it applies equally to the
uranium enrichment process, is if I say to my tailor,
rather than I pay you $600 and you pay your cloth
supplier $300, how about I just give you $300 and I will
give $300 to your cloth supplier, and it will amount to
the same thing in the end, because you won't have to pay
for the cloth? If the tailor accepts that arrangement,
the economic substance is exactly the same. And it
would seem strange to say that it's a sale if I just pay
$600 to the tailor, but it's not a sale if I break down
the cost in the way that I've described.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could you articulate
precisely what your test is, because you have been going
back and forth between whether the raw materials are
fungible and whether there is a fundamental
transformation in the product? So, how would you merge
those two in an articulable test so that business people
can know when they are going to be subject to this
regime and when they were not?
MR. STEWART: I think that the Commerce
determination -- that Commerce did not purport to either
promulgate a regulation or announce a test that
precisely defined the term "sale". I think the thrust
of the Commerce Department's determination was that
substantial transformation was enough, but that the case
was much easier by virtue of the fact that the
producer -- the enricher dealt with fungible goods and
also had substantial discretion to decide how much of
the feedstock would be used vis-a-vis --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You would say your
ultimate touchstone is whether there is substantial
transformation, and whether it's a raw material or
discretion, those go into that determination?
MR. STEWART: That's correct, although it
would certainly be appropriate for this Court if it
didn't want to address the situation in which only
substantial transformation was present, to say that at
least when both circumstances were present there was a
sale.
And again, to distinguish this somewhat from
the miller hypothetical, the miller in making grain into
flour may have discretion as to which individual grains
to use for a particular batch of flour, but it won't
typically have discretion as to what weight of grain
will be used to make what weight of flour. And the
enricher has that discretion as well; that is, to
produce a particular quantity and assay of enriched
uranium, the enricher can either use more feedstock and
fewer SWU's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's a SWU? You lost me
on the SWU. What's a SWU?
MR. STEWART: A SWU is a unit of work and
it's work in the sense of output; that is, it is the
work necessary to separate out a particular quantity of
enriched uranium --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you put in more time
with the uranium, with the same amount of 235, if you
put in more time you can get out more?
MR. STEWART: That's right. The amount
of -- the separation process or the enrichment process
involves a separation of the original feedstock into the
enriched uranium and what is referred to as the tails,
which is the residue or the depleted uranium.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sure you're
prepared for a wide variety of hypotheticals. What
about a diamond? You have a chunk of rock that contains
a diamond. You send it to Antwerp and they carve it
away into something that, I guess you could say it's
been substantially transformed. It's not just a rock.
It's now a glittering diamond. Is that covered by --
MR. STEWART: I'm not sure whether Commerce
would treat that as substantial transformation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Neither am I, and
it's kind of -- it's sort of a bit of a concern. It's a
fluctuating test that is hard to determine how it's
going to be applied in a wide variety of cases.
MR. STEWART: Now, in this case -- in this
particular case, Commerce noted that there was no
dispute among the parties that the enrichment process
did result in substantial transformation. So that --
that uncertainly is not present here.
But I agree that there is a gray area with
respect to substantial transformation that isn't present
when you are trying to answer the question: Is the
customer getting back the same thing in modified form or
is he getting back a different thing? That is, although
the contracts between the utility and the enricher deem
the enriched uranium to have been produced with the
customer's own feedstock, everybody acknowledges that
that is not the fact in the real world.
And so, what the customer receives back is
not like your diamond hypothetical, in which he receives
an improved version of the original product. It is as
though you had a diamond company that said, we need
inventory all the time, and we're prepared to work out
an arrangement where if you send us a raw diamond plus
cash, we will send you back a different cut diamond.
That would be a sale, regardless of whether there was
substantial transformation, because you would have
payment of consideration for a product that you
indisputably didn't own at the outset.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Stewart, we're
reviewing a decision of the Federal Circuit. And the
Federal Circuit relied dominantly on the Florida Power
case in which the same issue was presented, albeit under
a different statute.
But I -- reading that Florida Power, where
the Federal Circuit adopted the Government's position,
the Government's position then was that this very same
transaction involved the rendition of services and not a
sale of goods.
Does the Government have a distinction
between those two cases, or are you now saying in
hindsight you realized that the position that you took
before the Federal Circuit in the early case was wrong?
MR. STEWART: I don't think we have
disavowed the position we took in the Florida Power &
Light case. Now, in all candor, I would have to say the
question of the Contract Disputes -- Disputes Act's
applicability to SWU contracts is of a lot less interest
to the Federal Government now than it was then, because
the reason that arose in a case involving the Federal
Government was that at that time USEC was a Government
instrumentality and we were representing USEC in its
governmental incarnation.
Now that USEC has been privatized, the
Federal Circuit is unlikely to confront the question
whether the Contract Disputes Act applies to this sort
of, because these are not -- this is not a Federal
entity, in any event.
The reason that we think the two cases are
reconcilable is that the Contract Disputes Act, as its
name implies, is a statute that governs the resolution
of disputes between contracting parties. And in that
situation, it's much more appropriate to look to the
form of the parties' arrangement. And the court -- the
Federal Circuit in Florida Power and Light placed a lot
of emphasis on the fact that the contract was styled as
one for enrichment services. And that is an appropriate
consideration to take into account when you are
resolving disputes between the contracting parties, but
when the whole purpose of the antidumping statute is to
prevent contracting parties from entering into
arrangements that are mutually beneficial to themselves,
but that would and unfairly disadvantage domestic
competitors, it was appropriate for Commerce to look
behind the form of the contract and to look at physical
and economic reality.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But isn't it correct that
the universe of transactions that is the subject of this
Act is sales? Is that not right? Rather than service
contracts.
MR. STEWART: Well, it is true that the
antidumping statute requires that merchandise be sold in
the United States, and we don't contend that the statute
applies to price discrimination in services like
insurance or banking.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But do you -- do you
contend the word "sold" is an ambiguous term, requires
construction by a particular agency?
MR. STEWART: It is ambiguous at the
margins; that is, the classic arrangement, the classic
sale is an exchange of --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you think Congress
intended the ambiguity to be resolved by an agency
rather than judges applying the rules of common law and
the rules of sales law generally?
MR. STEWART: Yes, and I think this is a
statute that has been around for, I believe, close to
90 years now; and in order for it to remain efficacious
in this area, Commerce has to be able to adapt its
principles to new forms of transactions. Again, that
doesn't mean that Commerce's discretion is limitless,
but it has some discretion at the margins.
If I may, I would like to reserve the
balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Stewart.
Mr. Farr.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF H. BARTOW FARR
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
IN NO. 07-1078
MR. FARR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I would submit, as the questions this
morning have indicated, one of the difficulties in this
case, obviously, is this is the kind of transaction that
can be thought about reasonably enough in different
ways. It is possible to look at this very narrow set of
circumstances where a customer is providing raw
materials of the kind that the producer uses to make a
good, and to say in that circumstance we could look at
it as the customer providing two kinds of consideration
for the good it's receiving; or we could look at it, as
the Respondents do and as the Federal Circuit did, as
saying, the other way to look at it is this is
essentially the customer receiving a service on its own
goods.
Now it seems to me to begin with, the
question that is before the Court properly is whether
Commerce, which is undoubtedly the agency charged with
enforcing this statute, has adopted a reasonable view
when it's taken one of those two positions.
JUSTICE BREYER: What -- what do we do about
the question that is bothering me? Maybe at some
point -- maybe it's not a relevant question -- but I
will assume for the sake of argument Commerce does have
the power to classify it either way.
What is bothering me, and maybe that's not
in this case, is that as the -- as your brother lawyer
just said, this statute has been around for 90 years.
There has been trillions of dollars worth of foreign
commerce during that time. Yet I don't find cited here
any instance in which Commerce ever before said that
when you have title to a good, and you send it abroad,
for even a big change in it, and then it comes back,
that that is a sale.
Now, I might -- I don't know all the
Commerce cases; maybe they did. But what I found here
is like a blank on that side, and on the other side the
tolling cases, Florida Power & Light, the pizza case, to
the point where I thought, if I was a lawyer advising a
client, and that client said if I keep title to the
good, am I home free, I would have to say, yes, you are.
MR. FARR: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now that's the -- the
question I want responded to in the legal context of,
has Commerce made a significant change in its policy?
MR. FARR: Several things about that,
Justice Breyer. First of all, as we have indicated in
our brief, Commerce did have a policy prior to the
tolling regulation, where it did treat these kinds of
transactions as sales of goods.
JUSTICE BREYER: And I read -- at what page
do I find all these cases?
MR. FARR: That is in our brief. I'm sorry,
I don't have --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, roughly. I'll find
it. I will find it.
MR. FARR: But it's in --
JUSTICE BREYER: But I will see a lot of
cases where --
MR. FARR: Where we discuss Commerce's
tolling precedent. And then it went and it essentially
decided that what it had done in that precedent, it
wanted to reexamine that, because it thought in the end
what was happening in all of those cases is there was a
resale of the merchandise; and it thought it would be a
better practice to focus on that sale of the merchandise
for purposes of applying the statute.
When it did that, however, it found it had
created a loophole in the case where there wasn't a
further sale. So it has gone back to that. So at least
in terms of the precedent, Commerce has been on
different sides of that, but they have been wrestling
with exactly the problem that I outlined at the
beginning, which is dealing with a question that
essentially has no ready answer to it and trying to pick
among the plausible answers that were available to it.
Secondly, just about the specific situation
here, I don't believe that there is any chance that the
utilities and the enricher in this case could claim
unfair surprise or unjust reliance; because they say in
their own briefs, they did not set their transactions up
in this way in order to try to comply with prior
decisions of Commerce.
They say -- they make a point in their brief
in saying we have perfectly innocent intentions here,
that they set their transactions up purely for
historical and commercial reasons.
So -- now, the other question that
Justice Breyer raises is about the cases, and
Justice Ginsburg I think mentioned earlier the Florida
Power & Light decision. And again, Florida Power &
Light is a case in which there is no agency that is
before the Court.
So at that point there is no question of
Chevron deference, no question of whether this is a
reasonable position; all that the Court had to decide
was, given the possible choices, which did it think was
the better choice under those circumstances? And
particularly I think it's important in that case, is the
Federal Circuit said, this is a case that doesn't fall
readily into either of the two categories. So it went
ahead and had to decide it on its own.
But it seems to me that when you say in a
case with an agency involved, and the agency has made
one determination, that a case could fall within either
of categories -- of categories --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Farr, are there
earlier cases that applied Chevron deference to the
Commerce's determination of what a sale is?
MR. FARR: No, there are not, Your Honor,
that I am aware of. But --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You agree that the Chevron
case is not a substantial evidence case?
MR. FARR: I do think so, although I must
say the line between the two is not enormously clear to
me, to be honest. But -- but the fact is if I were
trying to figure out where on the side of the line it
goes, it seems to me that this is a case in which you
are talking about the application of a legal standard to
a particular set of circumstances. I mean, in Chevron,
you have the situation, is a certain kind of facility a
stationary source or whatever? I mean that -- you could
say, well, that is a factual question in some way, but
it seems to me ultimately the better way to think about
it is Commerce's responsibility is to interpret the law
in the light of cases that come up.
I mean, an agency does not -- is not
expected by Congress just to sit back and imagine all
the possible situations that could be a sale of
merchandise. I think what the agency is supposed to do
is, confronted with the circumstance in a particular
transaction, to apply its judgment on the statutory
language and say, yes, we do think this is a sale of
merchandise or no, we don't.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If we are to defer
to the agency's interpretation, what -- how would you
phrase its interpretation, apart from "this is a sale"?
MR. FARR: Well, I think -- the narrowest
interpretation, and it seems to me the one that is most
readily dealt with is, to say, in a situation where a
customer provides raw material that is the type of, but
not the precise raw material, used by a manufacturer to
make the good that it then delivers to the customer, in
that situation, we are going to treat the manufacturer
as having made a sale of that good for the consideration
of the cash and the raw material.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it doesn't matter
whether there is a substantial transformation or not?
MR. FARR: I think it does,
Mr. Chief Justice, in this sense, that we are talking
about the sale of the merchandise and that is a new
good. So the substantial transformation is essentially
what moves the ball from -- from being the -- the raw
material supplied by the customer to something
different. And the question would be in this case,
could Commerce reasonably think that the manufacturer
had sufficient control over the new good to be deemed
the owner of that?
And I think it's important to look, if you
look at the -- there are two different commodities that
are being talked about in the case of this transaction:
One is the feedstock, the raw material; the other is the
LEU. And the idea that the Respondents posit is, well,
this is just a service performed on our material. All
we are doing is getting our material back after a
service has been performed on it.
But as everybody agrees, as a matter of
fact, that is simply not so. They are not getting their
material back with a service performed on it. They are
getting a product that has been produced, manufactured,
from raw material that is fungible and in the general
inventory of the manufacturer. And in that case, it
seems to me, Commerce can say, we are going to disregard
the fiction of the parties' contracts that say this
really is made from our material, and say we are going
to look at the actual nature of the transaction. And in
the actual nature of the transaction, as I said, it is
not made from their material.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that -- so that
is the critical factor, whether it's made from their
material, regardless of whether there is a
transformation? If the domestic entity provides wood,
wooden two-by-fours, and the foreign entity coats it in
a certain way, but they can use any two-by-fours, they
are indistinguishable, you would say in that case
there's still -- that's still subject to Commerce's
position?
MR. FARR: No, I don't think Commerce would
say that. I am to some extent speaking for them here.
But I think what Commerce would say is, when you have a
fungible raw material in substantial transformation
without --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's got to be
both?
MR. FARR: I think that Commerce would say,
if you have both, that clearly can be regarded as a sale
of merchandise, and we will regard it as a sale of
merchandise. On the other hand, if you only have
substantial transformation but not fungibility, then I
believe Commerce would say, even in that situation,
because it's ultimately the effect on the domestic
competitor is exactly the same, we would retain the
discretion to treat even that as a sale of merchandise.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would you --
MR. FARR: I would emphasize that's not the
case.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would you do that if you
thought it was clear as a matter of common law or under
the Uniform Sales Act, or something like that, that it
was not a sale?
MR. FARR: I think because of the different
circumstances, under the common law, for example, I
should make very clear -- but I should make first my
answer to you, Justice Stevens. Under the common law,
the particular transaction we were dealing with here,
where it is not made from the identical material, is
clearly a sale under the common law. But if you -- if
Commerce were going to say, in a situation where it is
made from the identical material, we want to depart from
the common law, I think they would have to justify that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Under common law, you
don't need deference.
MR. FARR: Pardon me?
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm sorry. If it were
clearly a sale under common law, you wouldn't need to
rely on deference.
MR. FARR: Well, in the end, I think, in the
commercial setting, there is a reasonable chance, not
necessarily certain because you do have the UCC and you
have the possibility, in those situations, the courts
might say, in a commercial setting, we are going to pay
more attention to the parties' efforts to structure
their contracts in a particular way, so that between
them, we are going to treat the contract differently.
All our position is, is that Commerce, in applying the
antidumping law to protect a third party doesn't have to
observe the fictions in the parties' contract.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. FARR: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Halligan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CAITLIN J. HALLIGAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MS. HALLIGAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I would like to start with Justice Breyer's
question about the way in which the Department of
Commerce has treated transactions for the processing of
goods and the uncertainty that their position in this
case will cause, not just in this industry but across
industries.
As you suggested, Justice Breyer -- you
referred to -- the Department of Commerce has treated
processors who are called "tollers", in the language
that Commerce uses, as performing a service. And the
transaction for the sale of that service has not been
treated as a cognizable sale under the antidumping law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And those have been cases
where the very same product is returned with value
added, right?
MS. HALLIGAN: Not necessarily. Sometimes
that is the case, Your Honor, but not always. For
example, in the Taiwan Semiconductors case, which Mr.
Stewart referred to and which is cited in our brief,
what the U.S. company provided was simply a design to
for a chip. The Taiwanese company, which was the
processor in the case according to the Department of
Commerce, manufactured the chip, provided the silica,
used the design of the U.S. company, but no raw
materials at all. The Department of Commerce, in its
explanation as to why it treated the sale for purposes
of the antidumping law as the eventual sale by the U.S.
company and did not and could not treat the sale by the
processor as a cognizable sale, explained that the
statute itself requires Commerce to compare the U.S.
price, which is called the export price, the price at
which a good is sold or imported into the United States,
with the price at which the product is sold in the
company's home market. And because a processor does not
and cannot either provide all the essential components
of the product, because it's only providing the
processing service and not the raw materials, and
because it does not and cannot set the price at which
the product is sold in the United States, it is
therefore not the appropriate sale to look at that in
terms of the antidumping statute. That's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you do about
the substance versus formality question? I mean, if you
do have fungible raw materials, why should it make a
difference whether the domestic company supplies those
to the foreign company or simply says -- gives them
money and says, buy them yourselves? And in the latter
case, you would say that's a sale, and in the former
case you would say it's not a sale?
MS. HALLIGAN: First of all, the Department
of Commerce has not until this case suggested that
fungibility of goods might make some sort of a
difference. In fact, in one of the cases that we cite
regarding flanges which were, according to the
Department of Commerce, fungible, they concluded that
the processing service there was not the cognizable
sale, the downstream sale of that product was.
But more importantly it doesn't change the
substance of the deal between the two parties. What the
utilities come to the table with is cash, and they
provide the feed. It is fungible as a matter of its
physical properties. It is a gas. And when the feed is
put into the gaseous diffusion chamber, which is the
large installation that the enricher uses to concentrate
the two different molecular isotopes, it takes a month
for the gas to work its way through this plant. The
enricher cannot feasibly segregate different lots of
feed, just like you can't with a grain elevator.
The analogy would be, with respect to a
grain elevator, you would have to run in one farmer's
bag of feed, run it all the way through the elevator and
through the mill, and wait until the product comes out
at the end, and then run another farmer's bag of feed
through. That's economically impractical and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, old mills used to do
that. The farmer used to take his harvest to the mill,
and it would be ground right there while he was waiting.
MS. HALLIGAN: But -- but there is nothing
about the economic transaction that requires that it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's absolutely true.
MS. HALLIGAN: -- that happen, and more
importantly, the enrichers don't end up at the end of
the day with any feed. They are also --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Your brief constantly
assumes that there has been no sale, that throughout the
entire transaction, the utility owned what ultimately
becomes the rods, as though it was indeed the same
feedstock that produced the rod that was ultimately
delivered. And that is simply not true. There is a
change -- there is a change of ownership. The feedstock
that somebody else put into the mix is now transferred
to the -- to the electric utility.
MS. HALLIGAN: It may be the same molecules;
it may not be. There is no way to know or to tell. And
there is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's exactly right. You
don't know. So, you had cannot say that there has been
no transfer of ownership.
MS. HALLIGAN: Respectfully, Your Honor, I
disagree. If you look at the contracts, and the
substance squares with the contracts because, at the end
of this transaction, what the enricher walks away with
is cash and what the utilities walk away with are the
same number of uranium molecules that they came to that
plant with.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, we've got the same
molecules. I mean, when you are talking about whether
there has been a transfer of ownership or a transfer of
title, you are talking about molecules; you are not
talking about whether you ended up the same in, you
know, in monetary terms. You are talk about whether you
have the same thing that you delivered to the person
overseas. And you don't, or at least you can't say that
you do.
MS. HALLIGAN: You can't say for sure
because the gas molecules can't be segregated that way.
I think that you need to look at two things:
I think that you need to look at what each of the
parties to the transaction come to the table with and
what they walk away with. And with respect to the
utilities, they come to the table with uranium. It's a
very expensive commodity. The contracts are clear that
they hold title to it through the process until such
time as they take possession of the concentrated
uranium. It is clear from the contracts that there is
an intent to maintain a continuous stream of ownership.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That makes no sense, what
you just said. That contract makes no sense. They hold
title to it until they get the uranium rods, right?
MS. HALLIGAN: No, they hold title to it
until -- just to provide a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Most of it is back
overseas. It's still mixed with the other fungible U
235.
MS. HALLIGAN: Your Honor, the contracts
provide several things. First of all, they provide that
the utilities will deliver their feed within a certain
number of days prior to the date on which they will have
the concentrated uranium product provided to them. It's
60 to 90 days, depending on the contract.
So, pursuant to the contract, they deliver
the uranium feed. The utilities run it through their
system. And at the end of that diffusion process, they
take the concentrated isotopes out and they provide that
to the utility. The enrichers don't receive any amount
of feed that they can then take on to the open market.
By distinction, if you look at a used car
sale, for example, which is an analogy the government
uses. If I want to trade my car in, I come to the
dealer and I bring with me two pieces of consideration.
I bring the used car, which is payment in time and I
bring cash. I walk away with my wallet a little bit
lighter and a new car, and the used car dealer has cash,
but also has an item that he can then go out onto the
market and sell.
That does not occur here.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's only -- that's only
true because apparently they use up all the feed that
they get. If, in fact, they found a way to manufacture
to enrich more efficiently so that some feed was left
over, I presume you would not be here arguing that they
could not sell that feed on the open market even after
they had delivered the enriched uranium to the buyer?
MS. HALLIGAN: The price terms of the
contract provide only for the utilities to pay for the
amount of energy that is expended.
I would distinguish this from another kind
of contract per uranium feed, which we don't contest is
covered by the antidumping laws. There is a very small
percentage of concentrated uranium, of low enriched
uranium that is sold pursuant to what the parties call
an enriched uranium product contract, an EDP contract.
That sort of a contract is one in which the enricher
goes out into the market procures feed and performs a
processing service. The utility comes to the enricher,
pays them cash and walks away with the product.
By comparison, in these contracts, the
utilities are providing something that is very valuable.
The feed company --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yeah, but why are they
providing something that is very valuable that, in fact,
could not be obtained by the enricher on the open market
if those were the contract terms? The enricher buys it
in the -- in the -- I forget the acronym in the case
that you just described -- and we don't know -- we have
no reason to believe the enricher couldn't go out on the
market and buy it if, in fact, the utility didn't supply
the feed.
MS. HALLIGAN: Those are very different
kinds of contracts, though, Your Honor.
The contract in which the enricher simply
provides some amount of enriched uranium for a price and
procures the feed, which is a sliver of the total
contracts -- it's 5 percent even for USEC -- is one in
which the enricher is bearing the cost of the feed and
the risk of those price fluctuations.
The reasons that the contracts are
predominantly, almost exclusively structured as services
contracts by distinction is that the utilities choose to
manage the process of procuring fuel themselves.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Sure. They would rather
manage the risk of price fluctuation than, in effect,
pay the premium that the processor would have to charge
in order to hedge against price fluctuation --
MS. HALLIGAN: That's right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's why they are doing
that.
MS. HALLIGAN: And so, they go out into the
market and procure the feed pursuant to whatever
arrangements they have with their feed suppliers. By
comparison, all they are coming to the enricher for is
the service of concentrating that positional isotope
into the assay --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That is a way of looking at
it. But another way of looking at it is because they
choose to, in effect, take the risk of price fluctuation
as preferable to paying a higher ultimate price, they
are simply, for that reason, choosing to pay both in
cash and in a -- a valuable commodity, i.e., unenriched
uranium. You can look at it either way.
MS. HALLIGAN: They are. But they are
choosing to pay two completely different entities in two
unrelated and two unlinked transactions. So, it
doesn't -- we are not disagreeing that there is a
transaction for feed that the uranium -- that the
utilities engage in to procure their feed. There has to
be. But that is not part of the distinct services
contracts for processing only, which is all that the
Department of Commerce is looking to shoehorn into this
statute here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Halligan, try this
hypothetical, and it really gives you the benefit of the
doubt. Let's assume a department store buys raw wool
from some sheep herder, sends it overseas. And it's
worth $1,000, this raw wool. It is processed, spun and
knitted into sweaters, and then shipped back to the
department store. The sweaters, all made from the same
wool, not even fungible, so that's why this is even
better than your example -- the sweaters when they come
back, are worth not $1,000, but $20,000.
Do you think it would be unreasonable for
the Commerce Department to treat that as a sale of
sweaters by the European knitting wool or -- or home
knitters who did the sweaters?
MS. HALLIGAN: It would be perfectly
appropriate for the Department of Commerce to do what it
has done in the past, which is to treat the sale of the
sweater by the U.S. companies for $20,000 as the
cognizable sale.
The only thing that makes this case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Say it again?
MS. HALLIGAN: In your hypothetical --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm talking about the --
I'm talking about the sale from the European mills to
the American department store.
MS. HALLIGAN: That would be a processing
transaction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: A processing transaction.
It has changed a value of $1,000 into a value of -- what
did I say -- $20,000? And that's just processing?
MS. HALLIGAN: Let me give you an example of
what the Department of Commerce has looked at. They --
they looked at the processing of pasta. And the --
there the manufacturer came to a company -- this is a
place called Certain Pasta from Italy -- it's referenced
in the brief -- the company came to the processor with
wheat and presumably whatever other products went into
the pasta, some milk or eggs. The pasta was processed
and made into pasta from the wheat and given back to the
U.S. company.
The Department of Commerce concluded that
the appropriate sales target was not the making of the
pasta, the processing of the pasta, but the downstream
sale of the pasta in the United States.
And that is what the statute requires.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They said there was no
sale.
MS. HALLIGAN: They said that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: When the pasta was
imported, there was no sale into the United States.
MS. HALLIGAN: No, they said that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's what we are
talking about here.
MS. HALLIGAN: We don't disagree, Your
Honor, that there is a product that comes into the
United States, it's low enriched uranium. But the
statute doesn't target the importation of products. And
in that way it is distinct from the companion statute,
the countervailing duty statute. What this statute, the
antidumping statute, covers is the sale of merchandise
into the United States.
That means that you have to have merchandise
as distinct from services, but by comparison to
countervailing duty statute covers both, which is part
of how we know that Congress means that distinction
tolls. And you have to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Get back to your pasta
case. Was the holding of that case that there was no
sale into the United States?
MS. HALLIGAN: The question before Commerce
was which transaction is the appropriate transaction for
us to treat as -- as the one that establishes the price
all over the United States.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a different issue.
We are not talking here about which transaction
establishes the price. We are talking simply about
whether there was a sale into the United States.
MS. HALLIGAN: It turns on the same issue,
Your Honor, and here's why. In all of these processing
cases that the Department of Commerce has looked at,
they have explained that the reason why the cognizable
sale is the sale of the finished product in the United
States, the pasta, the sweater, or whatever it may be,
is because the statute gets at price discrimination.
And it instructs the Department to look at the price at
which the product is sold in the United States.
The price for the weaving of the sweaters,
even if it does add the sort of value that you are
talking about, is not the price at which the product is
sold, nor does it reflect all of the components of the
transaction, because there is some components that the
wool request. So to determine whether there is price
discrimination, you have to look apples to apples at
which the product is sold in the United States.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, wait. Suppose these
knitting mills in my example, in fact, are selling their
sweaters for a much higher price in Europe. Instead of
$20,000 for this batch of wool, in Europe they are
selling it for $40,000. And they nonetheless sell the
wool back into the United States for only $20,000.
You are telling me that that transaction
doesn't -- doesn't count for purposes of our antidumping
law?
MS. HALLIGAN: To the extent that it may --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That you have to look at
the price at which the department store then sells to
individuals?
MS. HALLIGAN: That's right. Because that's
what the statute is intended to capture. The statute
was enacted --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the department store is
not dumping. It's -- it's the knitting mills that are
dumping.
MS. HALLIGAN: But the question, Your Honor,
is -- is the price at which the product is sold in the
United States. Section 1677(a) defines "export price"
and "constructed export price" as the price at which the
subject merchandise is first sold in the United States.
And that is what you have to look at.
It may certainly be true that you may be
able to sell a product at less than its fair value to
the extent that you are obtaining processing services at
a price lower than what you could obtain them in a
foreign country. But the -- the bottom line is you have
to look at what the statute explicitly instructs, at the
price at which the subject merchandise is sold in the
United States.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. And accepting that,
you -- you have to begin the whole thing, however, with
a sale, with a sale into the United States, right?
MS. HALLIGAN: A sale and I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I thought this is --
this is what you say fails in this case. That is the
link of the chain that doesn't exist. You say there is
no sale in the United States.
MS. HALLIGAN: There is an importation of
LEU into the United States by the utilities. The
utilities consume that fuel in their reactors. They do
not sell it onward as the company would sell a sweater
or would sell a pasta or would sell Rya rugs. That is
something that makes this case somewhat different and --
JUSTICE BREYER: That is pretty important.
Tell me -- this is a hard area, obviously. But the --
imagine -- think of all the toller cases that they've
had.
Now -- now, is this right: That in every
one of those cases there were two companies, A and B;
and in every one of those cases A sells a finished
product into the United States. And also A sends the
product to B to have some major thing done on it. In
every one of those cases the Commerce Department could
say: We can take A as a Respondent; i.e. we think A
might violate the law, because maybe it's an Italian
company, or we think B might violate the law. Is that
true of all those cases?
MS. HALLIGAN: It is true.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, if it's
true of all those cases, then I think what the opposite
position is, what Mr. Farr said, I think -- I think, you
know, I will -- he will say: Look at page 40 and 41 of
their brief. When I look at those pages, I am going to
see a lot of cases. And I bet, when I look them up,
those Commerce cases are all going to use the word
"substantial transformation." And he will say: You
see, that's what they did here.
Then he's going to add -- I don't mean to
put words in his mouth if the words are wrong, but --
but he's going to add: Look at those tolling cases.
Those are all cases where Commerce had a choice of which
to consider the sale. It could have considered the sale
from the processor A to -- to B to A, the sale if it
wanted to; or it could have considered the sale into the
United States if it had wanted to, to be the sale for
purposes of calculating the price.
And so in choosing between those two, either
of which it could have chosen, it chose the latter sale,
the final sale, because that's how they could calculate
the price.
But in your case there is no such person A,
because the utilities are not people who could be
respondents. I mean they are not in the same position.
There is no sale onwards that they could choose. So we
will go to the other guy, the party -- the person who
does the processing. Are you following what I am
saying?
MS. HALLIGAN: Yes. And then it starts an
invidious --
JUSTICE BREYER: And what is the answer to
that?
MS. HALLIGAN: And here is why that's not
sufficient. It's the problem of the tail wagging the
dog, right? What the United States is saying is that
because in this single circumstance we do not have a
downstream sale of pasta, or a sweater, or whatever the
item might be, and we can't go after that transaction,
that, therefore, we are asking this Court to sign off on
essentially rewriting the statute.
The statute refers to a sale of merchandise.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. But, remember, they
are saying in the tolling cases, in my words: Hey, we
could have gone after the processor if we wanted --
MS. HALLIGAN: But that's --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- if there had been a
substantial transformation, because the key to this
concept of "sale" is the word "substantial"
transformation.
MS. HALLIGAN: Two responses, Your Honor:
First of all, the statute doesn't allow
that, and I would recommend to the court the remand
response that Commerce provided in the Taiwan
semiconductor case.
JUSTICE BREYER: In which --
MS. HALLIGAN: The Taiwan semiconductor case
which is cited in the brief. It explains why the
definition of "export price" and "constructed export
price" means you can't go after a processing
transaction.
Secondly, in order to find for the
government here and reverse the Federal circuit, you
would effectively have to agree with the government's
position that processing services where they are part of
the manufacturing operation somehow are within the terms
of the statute. And so that would mean that the
government can say in this case that because there's no
downstream sale that it can capture, it will choose to
go after the processing transaction. But there is no
way to gauge down the road whether it will make the same
choice. And here --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What does -- what does the
government do with respect to these other transactions
where, indeed, the utility does not provide the feed
uranium but just pays for, you know, getting -- getting
the rods?
MS. HALLIGAN: In those cases --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is no down -- you
know, there is no domestic sale there, either. Is it
conceivable that there, therefore, can be no dumping in
such a case?
MS. HALLIGAN: No. Those cases -- we -- we
do not disagree -- are a sale of merchandise because the
utility is paying for the entire commodity.
What -- that is a substantial transformation
point, Justice Breyer. I would like to -- to return to
that.
There are many processing transactions which
involve some kind of substantial transformation where
you have a product like wheat and you turn it into
something else like pasta, or wool and you turn it into
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't it true that in all
of those cases there is no transfer of ownership of the
basic product? And here -- and I am not sure you have
really addressed it --it is a fungible product, and you
are assuming you can't tell whether -- when it is in
process or whether it is one party's or the other's.
But if you could tell and you had some way
of identifying just which one here, but they wouldn't
care because they are all equally valuable, and if it
developed that it was actually a third party's product
that was being processed, then there would be a transfer
of ownership, and there clearly would be a sale. Isn't
that true?
MS. HALLIGAN: I think not, Your Honor,
certainly not for the same reasons that you would have
that in -- in a grain elevator. If the enricher goes
out and purchases the feed and holds title to that feed
while it is enriching it, then, yes, there would be a
transfer of ownership.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you have the same
contract you've got here, but you are able to identify
that, in fact, there is a difference in the -- in the
commodity that -- that -- at least not a different raw
material that was sent to France and returned. It is
just a substitute. It seems to me that -- in that
context, within the meaning of your argument, that there
would have been the transfer of title to that -- that
commodity.
MS. HALLIGAN: First of all, you can't tell
-- and I don't think there is any -- any dispute as to
that fact. But, secondly, if you look at the common law
of --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, isn't it true, if
you can't tell, the odds are that there is some product
the title to which has been transferred?
MS. HALLIGAN: No, I -- I think you
certainly can't tell what molecules come out the other
end. I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can't we assume -- let's
assume that there is.
MS. HALLIGAN: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Assume that there are --
are two sources for the uranium, A and B, and it goes to
the enricher. A gives it; B gives it. A ends up with
B's uranium. Justice Stevens is saying at some point
there is a transfer of title.
MS. HALLIGAN: And that's -- that's the
operative premise that I am disagreeing with, with all
due respect.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. We are asking you to
accept that hypothetical, so we can --
MS. HALLIGAN: I mean the legal -- the legal
consequences is -- is what I am --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you saying the utility
doesn't have title to what was formerly B's uranium?
MS. HALLIGAN: The utility holds title to a
discreet amount of feed uranium. It's in -- I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The enrichment is done.
It's back in the United States. The utility says: This
is my uranium. I have title. Do you dispute that?
MS. HALLIGAN: No, not at all.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How does he get the title
from -- to the uranium that was formerly B's uranium?
MS. HALLIGAN: Because --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: At what point did that
title transfer?
MS. HALLIGAN: It -- maybe the useful
analogy is money -- is money in the bank, Your Honor.
If I take $100 and I bring it to the bank, ten 10's, and
I take away five 20's, I may not have the same dollar
bills that I brought to the bank, but I don't think
anyone would argue that, somehow, the bank takes title
to my money. I retain ownership of that, and there is
nothing in the contract which suggests that there is any
change of ownership that is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't -- you
don't retain ownership of that. And if you go to the
bank and say: Show me my money, they are not going to
say: Well, here's your money. They -- they have title
to it. They own it, and you have a claim against the
bank to what you gave them.
MS. HALLIGAN: But the bank could not hold
title to that as against me if I came and tried to take
the money out of my safe deposit box, nor could the
farmers at the -- at the grain elevator be told that
they -- they don't have title to the grain.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any point in time
from the time that the -- the processors get ahold of
the uranium until the time it leaves their control that
if they went bankrupt, anyone other than the utility
could get ahold of the product?
MS. HALLIGAN: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: No. Okay.
MS. HALLIGAN: And let me clarify this
because it's an important issue. These are very
expensive, offshore transactions that the utilities
engage in in order to purchase a feed. It is a very
valuable commodity. So what is critical to the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but if they go
bankrupt because -- I mean let's say they don't have all
the uranium. They have got five people who shipped them
uranium, and they have only got enough for four. Each
of the five can't say: I'm entitled to get mine back.
MS. HALLIGAN: But -- but the system doesn't
operate that way, Your Honor. The contracts provide
that the utilities have to deliver feed. And it's a
very different sort of business that the utilities are
engaged in, to go out into the market and make bets
based on the price fluctuations for uranium and procure
that uranium.
The enrichers are not in that business, and
so there would be no economic reason or any reason
provided for in the contracts for them to proceed that
way.
I would like to touch briefly, if I can, on
the purpose of the statute, because the government
relies very strongly on this notion that somehow the
processors' sales have to cognizable in order to further
the antidumping statute.
This law is not a boundless license to
protect domestic industry from any competition. There
are other statutes that are are written much more
broadly in the trade laws; for example, the
countervailing duties law, the safeguards law which
allows the Department of Commerce to impose quotas or
tariffs on the import -- not the sale but the import of
any goods, statutes regarding the protection of
intellect0ual property rights, all of which are cited in
the -- in the briefs.
So the notion that somehow to protect the
integrity of the statute you need to rewrite it to allow
them to address processing sales exclusively is really
not -- not well-founded.
Finally, with respect to the loophole
question that the government has relied on, I think it's
important to focus on what is specifically at issue
here. The government initially argued that it was
critical to address this case and these particular
transactions because of concerns about agreements with
the Russians.
That has been addressed as to U.S. concedes
in its -- legislation that has been implemented by
Congress. The government has consistently in court and
in its decisions -- not just in the Contract Disputes
Act that you referenced Justice Ginsburg, but in other
cases regarding the UCC which relates to the sale of
goods, the government has said: These very kinds of
contracts for the processing of uranium are contracts
for services. They are not covered by statutes that
reach the sale of goods or the disposal of property.
There is nothing that has changed with
regard to the statute or with regard to these kinds of
transactions; and, accordingly, we would ask you to
affirm the Federal Circuit. If there are no other
questions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms.
Halligan. Mr. Stewart, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
IN NO. 07-1059
MR. STEWART: Thank you.
One of the things Ms. Halligan said, and I
think it's really a central theme of their brief, is
that utilities come to the enricher for services and not
for goods. And to understand what it is that utilities
acquire, I think it may be helpful to ask: Under what
circumstances would the utility have a valid breach-of-
contract right?
And it is very clear that the enricher's
obligation under the contract is to deliver a specified
quantity and assay of enriched uranium at a specified
time and place. And if the enricher complies with that
obligation, it doesn't matter that the enricher decided
to -- what they call in the industry -- "overfeed"; that
is, use more feed staff stock and fewer SWU's to produce
the final product.
And the utility in that circumstance
couldn't file a breach-of-contract claim by saying: I
paid for more SWU's than I actually received. Because
what the utility had contracted for was a given product.
The second thing -- and I think the
corollary to that is -- it's potentially misleading to
say that every contract is either one for merchandise or
one for services, especially when you are contracting to
acquire ownership of a commodity that doesn't exist at
the time the contract is formed. The only way you are
going to get to your ultimate objective is for somebody
to create it. And that can generally be described as a
service, but it still results in the sale of goods.
With respect to the used-car analogy, I
understood Ms. Halligan to acknowledge that -- that that
would be a sale even though the consideration paid by
the customer is partly in cash and partly in kind. And
if the customer and the car dealership characterize
their contract as one for car-refurbishment services and
said that the new car the customer receives shall be
deemed to be the used car that it traded in in
refurbished form, nobody would contend that that deeming
quality should be controlling.
Now here the -- the falseness of the
proposition that it's the same feedstock is less
apparent, but it's equally the case that the utility
doesn't receive back its original feedstock.
And finally the perspective of tolling
regulation in cases, Commerce has essentially said three
things:
First, we were dealing with a separate
question; that is, who is the producer, which sale is
relevant, and not whether the goods are covered at all.
Second, they said in those situations the
tollee was exercising much more control over the
ultimate process than is the case here where the
utilities don't manufacture anything. They simply pay
for one of the inputs.
And, finally, Commerce said that if at some
level of abstraction there is a tension or contradiction
between what we said previously and what we decide
today, then what we decide today controls. And Commerce
is entitled to make that determination.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Stewart. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:07 p.m. the case was
submitted.)
agrees 24:5 15:8 16:11 43:8 48:4,5 bit 13:4 33:9
ahold 49:24 50:2 applying 16:21 8:25 9:22 bothering 18:10
American 37:12 argued 51:23 balance 17:6 7:3,18 18:9
12:12,14 33:2 argument 1:16 bank 49:4,5,7,8 19:21 21:2
52:6 announce 11:2 arose 15:2 bargain 3:24 Breyer's 27:8
15:22 16:9 articulable batch 8:25 11:23 briefs 20:19
28:9,23 34:1 articulate 10:17 bearing 35:2 bring 33:7,8,9
51:5 48:11 behalf 1:20,22 broadly 51:9
anybody 4:25 12:2 35:20 3:8 17:11 27:5 brother 18:15
apparent 54:14 assume 8:22 9:1 believe 7:11 49:7
18:6 1:18 assuming 46:16 benefit 36:14 6:6
apples 40:5,5 attention 26:20 bet 42:24 buy 29:4 34:19
applicability authority 6:18 bets 50:19 buyer 33:20
45:7 applied 13:6 a.m 1:17 3:2 36:21 36:15
27:20 50:10 52:17 29:13 37:6 common 5:4
27:4 43:5,6 44:12 43:6 45:15 4:6 47:17
cash 4:1,6 14:2 35:23 43:19 33:6 36:21 companion
28:13 34:8 36:1 54:5 36:4 43:12 30:4 34:7 28:2,3,6,10
categories 21:14 chose 43:13 38:17 29:2,3 34:11
certain 22:9 14:20 15:7,17 commerce 3:18 28:16
54:6,8,9 32:19 37:22 45:6 52:15 6:7,8,11,20 comparison
chamber 29:20 circumstances 18:18,19,24 competitor
8:12 11:5 26:16 21:11 22:8 20:21 23:19 competitors
14:10 change 18:21 25:25 53:4 24:11 25:1,3,8 16:1
15:2 19:8 29:15 cite 29:10 25:13 26:6,23 complete 4:6
18:15 30:22,22 49:11 cited 7:9 18:18 27:10,15,17 completely 36:4
20:7,17 changed 37:16 28:1 45:1 28:5,7,12 29:8 complies 53:9
52:12 51:14 29:12 36:11,24 comply 20:20
22:1,1,6 character 4:15 claim 20:17 37:3,19 38:3 components
24:10 characterize 49:16 53:15 39:7,17 42:13 28:17 40:2,3
25:19 54:6 clarify 50:5 42:25 43:6 concedes 52:2
characterized classic 16:17,17 44:22 51:11 conceivable
29:5,6,8 4:16 classify 18:13 54:17 55:2,5 45:24
37:7 charge 35:10 clear 22:3 25:21 Commerce's 9:2 concentrate
41:20 charged 18:6 26:1 32:4,7 17:3 19:23 29:21
43:16 check 8:18 53:6 21:22 22:13 concentrated
45:11 Chevron 21:8 clearly 9:19 25:9 24:24 32:6,21 33:1
51:24 21:21,25 22:8 26:5,13 46:23 commercial 34:2
55:8 Chief 3:3,10 client 19:3,3 20:25 26:16,19 concentrating
10:17 11:10 close 16:24 commodities 35:19
14:18 17:7,13 22:23 10:10,12 commodity 32:4 concern 13:4
18:24 23:10,13 24:17 coats 24:21 36:1 46:3 47:9 concerns 51:25
25:6 27:1,3,6 cognizable 47:14 50:9 concluded 3:20
38:3 contracting 50:9 51:24 depart 26:7 26:22
3:17,21 13:17 18:2 23:4,6,17 27:9,15 28:4,7 32:25
22:16 24:12 26:21 customer's 36:15,19,24 disadvantage
52:4 31:7,8 32:4,7 13:19 37:3,12,19 15:25
50:16,24 52:9 51:11 disagreeing 36:6
14:5 55:3 Dakota 5:12 depended 5:6 14:22
17:23 control 23:20 date 32:20 depending discreet 48:18
33:7 54:4 49:25 54:23 day 30:15 32:22 discretion 4:5,9
54:11 deal 29:16 deposit 49:20 11:13,22,24
corollary 53:19 dealership 54:6 described 10:16 25:16
8:13 11:14 26:3 54:19 design 7:10,11 16:11 39:21
45:2 35:2 decide 11:8 21:9 determination disposal 52:11
count 40:14 decided 19:25 7:9 9:3 11:1,4 47:16 48:21
54:10 country 6:1 decisions 20:21 40:4 disregard 24:11
3:11,23 11:15 deemed 23:20 12:22,25 13:22 distinction 5:5
15:8,12 27:7 44:8,21 defer 22:23 10:3 29:2,10 distinguish
16:2 52:4 deference 21:8 47:8 11:20 33:24
32:10 courts 26:18 21:21 26:10,14 different 8:25 dog 44:4
33:22 covered 3:14 defined 11:3 9:22 13:16 doing 24:3 35:13
34:4,4,5 12:25 34:1 defines 41:3 14:2,11 17:18 dollar 49:6
47:7 52:10 54:21 definition 45:2 20:10 23:18,23 dollars 18:17
52:5 covers 38:22 deliver 32:19,23 25:24 29:22,24 domestic 15:25
39:1 50:17 53:7 34:21 36:4 24:20 25:14
create 53:25 delivered 30:21 39:11 42:3 29:2 45:23
critical 24:18 delivers 23:6 differently dominantly 14:9
38:5 engage 36:8 19:24 20:13 40:16 41:9 feedstock 4:1,6
45:12 50:8 23:15 44:9 extreme 9:7 8:9,15,16,18
45:24 enrich 33:17 ET 1:6,8,11 fact 5:11 7:16 54:15
39:1 12:2,10,17 Europe 40:9,10 24:6 29:10 fiction 24:12
37:11 40:8 47:8,17 figure 22:5
16:3 34:5,7,14,15 exactly 6:11 7:7 falseness 54:12 find 18:18 19:15
50:23 34:18,23 35:2 7:20 8:22 farmer 4:22 8:7 19:18,19 45:5
48:5 53:1,9,10 25:15 31:3 farmers 5:12 7:12 39:19
50:22 33:5 36:21 Farr 1:22 2:5 first 19:10 26:1
enrichment 10:7 exchange 4:19 19:23 21:20,23 47:15 54:19
21:14,18 46:3 exist 41:21 feasibly 29:24 14:22 15:17
36:2 entities 36:4 53:22 Federal 3:15,19 19:1 21:3,4
45:23 entitled 50:14 expected 22:16 14:8,9,13,20 flour 11:22,23
55:6 expended 33:23 15:1,2,7,9,17 11:25
47:2 entrusted 3:19 explained 5:4 feed 4:1 29:18 35:11,23
equally 10:6 28:11 39:18 29:19,25 30:3 fluctuations
equivalent 5:7 28:8 33:17,19,25 following 43:21
16:2 give 7:21 10:9 30:2 47:2 holds 47:3 48:17 impose 51:11
10:10 37:18 49:21,22 home 19:4 28:16 impractical 30:6
glittering 12:25 guy 43:20 32:17 34:22 indicated 17:16
33:16 45:3,13 49:13 haircuts 7:21 50:16 indistinguisha...
8:4 goes 22:6 34:6 2:7 27:3,4,6,23 7:16 8:2 individual 11:22
10:18,23 13:6 32:12,17 33:21 13:22 36:14 industries 27:13
10:20 53:24 39:15 40:16,20 I input 8:4
29:9 19:4 23:6,8,15 44:2,14,19,25 5:15 26:4,7 29:21
11:7 goods 7:15 9:1,4 47:15,22 48:2 identified 8:24 instructs 39:22
25:4 29:1 9:10,24 11:7 48:8,13,17,22 identify 47:7 41:12
32:15 14:16 18:3 48:25 49:3,18 identifying instrumentality
46:15 19:13 27:11 50:3,5,15 46:19 15:4
52:8,11 53:2 hand 25:11 imagine 4:20 integrity 51:17
happen 30:13 9:15 22:16 intellectual 7:16
33:5 45:6,11 hear 3:3 8:7 implies 15:13 intended 16:20
15:5 Hey 44:12 42:4 50:6 interest 14:25
14:13,14 45:7 40:9 importantly interpretation
45:19 grain 4:21,21,23 historical 20:25 importation inventory 13:25
4:24 5:12,13 hold 32:5,10,12 38:19 41:23 24:10
35:21 36:13 large 29:21 loophole 20:7 53:10
39:4,11 40:7 16:22 22:13 lot 14:25 15:17 22:15 28:25
9:18 41:19 42:4,19 26:5,8,9,13,24 lots 4:21,21 45:10 48:13
21:17 43:25 44:11,15 27:19 28:9 29:24 50:11
46:5,12 47:6 47:17 51:6,10 lower 41:10 means 38:24
49:23 50:4,10 19:2 major 42:12 3:17 4:18 9:19
50:6 justify 26:8 left 33:17 38:4 22:18,22 23:14
legal 19:7 22:7 MALCOLM 25:10,11,16
21:25 47:25 50:11 manufacture merge 10:21
49:1 level 55:3 manufactured mill 4:21 30:4,8
5:10,21 kinds 17:23 limitless 17:3 45:9 40:8,24
19:12 34:22 line 22:3,5 41:11 margins 16:17 mine 50:14
8:20 9:6 52:8,13 link 41:21 17:4 minutes 52:18
10:3,17 knitted 36:18 little 33:9 market 28:16 misleading
12:5,11 knitters 37:1 logic 6:1 33:3,12,19 53:19
13:3 knitting 36:25 look 15:15 16:1 34:6,14,19 mix 30:23
16:4,13 40:8,24 16:2 17:19,22 35:16 50:19 mixed 32:15
17:7,13 know 5:14 6:5 17:24 18:1 mask 7:11,17 modified 13:15
19:6,10 6:21 7:18,20 23:22,23 24:14 8:3 molecular 29:22
10:23 18:23 28:22 31:7,24 material 11:12 molecule 5:15
31:1,4,18 31:25 33:4 23:4,5,9,17,25 molecules 4:25
23:10,13 34:17 39:2 36:2 39:22 24:2,3,7,9,13 30:25 31:11,14
25:6,17 42:22 45:19,23 40:5,17 41:6 24:16,19 25:4 31:16,23 47:23
26:2,9 41:12 42:22,23 26:4,7 47:10 monetary 31:18
27:1,3,6 L 42:24 43:5 materials 9:13 money 29:4 49:4
L 1:19 2:3,10 47:17 10:19 17:21 49:4,9,14,15
30:7,12 3:7 52:20 looked 37:19,20 28:7,19 29:1 49:20
31:3,13 labor 9:18 39:17 matter 1:15 month 29:22
33:14 language 22:21 looking 35:21,22 23:10 24:5 morning 17:16
27:23 order 4:6 16:25 party 26:24 pick 20:13 premise 48:9
31:24 original 9:5 pasta 37:20,22 place 37:22 53:9 13:25
51:17 12:16 13:23 37:25,25 38:1 placed 15:17 present 11:17,18
33:10 outlined 20:11 44:6 46:10 plausible 20:14 14:10
output 12:8 pay 10:8,8,11,14 please 3:11 presumably
owned 30:18 33:8 policy 19:8,11 price 9:16,20
34:2 45:8 40:1,4,9,18
paid 4:10 53:16 24:4,7 possible 17:19 20:20 32:20
45:8 6:20 14:22 15:17 process 10:1,7
54:24 38:19 Q 6:25 18:7 21:9 14:9 51:21
36:17 11:2 quantity 4:2,7 reasonably rely 26:14
46:22 properly 7:14 4:13 12:2,9 17:18 23:19 remain 16:25
28:19 properties 29:19 question 3:12,16 35:4 47:1 remand 44:21
34:7 property 7:17 6:22,24,24 REBUTTAL remember
37:13,15 8:2,3 51:14 8:21 13:14 2:9 52:20 44:11
38:5 52:11 14:24 15:7 receive 33:2 rendition 14:15
41:9 proportions 18:5,10,11 54:15 representing
45:3,8 4:12 19:7 20:12 received 4:9 15:4
46:7 proposition 21:1,7,8 22:11 53:16 request 40:4
52:9 54:13 23:18 27:9 receives 4:2 requires 16:9,14
51:7,16 41:1 51:21 receiving 17:24 38:7
37:23 protection 51:13 54:20 18:2 resale 20:3
44:13 provide 28:17 questions 17:15 recommend reserve 17:5
49:24 32:18 33:1,22 quotas 51:11 reconcilable resolution 3:15
45:18 50:16 15:12 15:13
50:20 7:11 9:14 28:2 R 3:1 referenced resolving 15:21
44:22 50:24 raw 9:13 10:19 referred 12:17 30:1 32:2
24:20 34:24 23:16,25 24:9 reflect 40:2 Respectfully
30:20 17:20,23 28:18 29:1 36:15,17 54:10 responded 19:7
17:21 provision 3:13 reach 52:11 52:13,13 42:14
purchase 50:8 reactors 41:25 regarded 25:9 respondents
8:23 purely 20:24 readily 21:14 51:13 52:7 24:1 27:5
13:23 purport 11:1 23:3 regardless 14:3 43:18
24:8 purpose 15:22 reading 14:12 24:19 response 44:22
28:15,18 51:2 ready 20:13 regime 10:24 responses 44:19
29:14 purposes 20:5 real 13:20 regulation 11:2 responsibility
32:21 28:8 40:14 reality 16:3 19:12 54:17 22:13
38:17 43:11 realized 14:19 related 6:6 7:4,5 result 3:22
40:1 pursuant 32:23 really 9:6 24:13 7:23 13:10
41:2,8 34:3 35:16 36:14 46:15 relates 52:7 results 3:17 54:1
46:9 put 12:11,13 51:18 52:25 relative 4:12 retain 25:15
29:20 30:23 reason 15:2,11 relevant 18:11 49:9,13
50:2 43:4 34:18 35:25 54:21 return 4:2 5:7
p.m 55:9 39:18 50:23,23 reliance 20:18 46:5
11:19 14:3,16 secondly 20:15 setting 26:16,19 source 8:5 22:10
30:9 26:5,13 27:18 segregated 50:12 specific 20:15
32:11 27:19 28:8,9 31:23 shoehorn 36:11 specifically
40:20 28:10,11,22 sell 33:12,19 Show 49:14 51:22
42:8,19 29:5,6,14,14 40:11 41:8 side 18:25,25 specified 4:2
53:5 30:17 33:5 42:1,1,2,2 22:5 53:7,8
37:11 38:6,9 40:11 sign 44:8 squarely 9:3
11:10 43:7,7,8,9,10 Semiconductors 28:2 29:3 standard 22:7
13:3 43:13,14,19 27:25 30:21 34:23 start 27:8
22:23 44:6,10,17 send 5:12 9:22 35:25 39:13 starts 43:23
24:17 45:12,23 46:2 12:22 14:1,2 54:25 States 1:1,3,16
27:1,3 46:23 51:12 18:20 single 44:5 3:4,18 16:10
49:12 52:7,11 54:1,4 sends 36:16 sit 22:16 28:14,21 38:6
52:17 54:20 42:11 situation 5:11 38:12,18,23
sales 3:22 16:6 sense 12:8 23:13 6:12 11:16 39:6,10,14,20
saying 5:10,19 54:19 situations 22:17 43:10 44:4
48:20 18:2 24:2,4,7 16:14 28:14,15 18:16 20:5
30:7,12 35:19 54:1 41:2,5,13 38:21,22 39:1
39:4,11 40:7 38:25 41:9 42:3 52:13
6:3,20 9:1 scope 8:21 set 17:19 20:19 sort 7:21 13:4 statutory 22:20
second 53:18 20:24 22:8 15:8 29:9 34:5 Stevens 8:20 9:6
11:3 54:22 28:20 39:25 50:18 9:21 10:3 16:4
21:20 12:24 table 29:17 32:1 41:16 42:12 tollee 54:23
26:2 substitute 47:11 32:3 53:18 toller 7:25 42:6
46:12 suddenly 5:16 tail 44:3 things 6:6 7:19 tollers 7:19,20
48:6 sufficient 23:20 tailor 9:16,16 19:9 31:24 7:22 27:16
3:6,7,10 suggest 6:2 7:5 tails 12:17 54:18 19:24 43:5
6:10 suggested 27:14 Taiwan 7:10 think 5:1,22 6:1 44:12 54:16
7:2,7 29:8 27:25 44:22,25 6:10 9:2,8,11 tolls 39:3
8:20 9:2 suggests 6:19 Taiwanese 28:3 10:25 11:3 total 34:25
10:5 9:3 49:10 take 15:20 30:8 14:21 15:11 touch 51:1
11:14 suit 9:15,18,22 32:6 33:1,3 16:19,23 21:3 touchstone
13:1,7 10:6 35:23 42:14 21:10,12 22:2 11:11
16:8 supplied 23:17 49:5,6,19 22:12,18,21 trade 33:6 51:9
17:8 supplier 8:18 taken 18:8 23:1,12,19,22 traded 54:9
52:18,20 10:9,10 takes 4:23 29:22 25:1,3,8,24 transaction 4:7
55:8 suppliers 35:17 49:8 26:8,15 31:24 4:16,19 6:9
40:18,23 Suppose 40:7 talking 5:23 42:21,21 46:25 24:14,15 26:3
surprise 20:18 tariffs 51:12 9:12 17:18 16:5 17:2
sweater 37:5 46:16,18 47:15 25:21 41:19 27:10 36:5
24:24 44:6 telling 40:13 54:17 50:7 51:25
sweaters 36:18 ten 49:5 thrust 11:3 52:14
40:9 terms 20:9 17:6 18:18 47:5,13 48:7
29:16 3:24 12:5,6,6,7 33:21 34:15 49:23,24,25 transferred 8:12
14:25 45:9 53:9,23 30:23 47:21
11:5,8,11 SWU's 12:4 11:2 13:5 31:16 32:5,11 transformation
13:2,10 53:12,16 Thank 17:7 27:1 32:12 47:3,13 9:5 10:21 11:5
14:4 system 32:25 27:2 52:17,23 47:21 48:7,16 11:12,17 13:2
23:11,15 50:15 55:7 48:17,21,23 13:10,13 14:4
43:1 S.A 1:6,11 theme 52:25 49:2,8,15,19 23:11,15 24:20
46:4 thing 5:8 8:6 49:22 25:4,12 43:1
T 10:11 13:15,16 today 55:5,5 44:16,18 46:4
25:14 30:18,20 USEC 1:8 3:5 wagging 44:3 42:25 44:17
13:11 used-car 54:2 waiting 30:9 44:12
13:2 27:11 uses 17:21 27:17 33:9 12:8,9 13:25
23:7 understand 53:2 29:21 33:6 walks 31:9 34:8 29:23
26:22 understood 54:3 utilities 8:8 wallet 33:9 world 13:20
36:24 undoubtedly 20:17 29:17 want 9:24 11:16 worth 18:17
39:9 18:6 31:10 32:3,19 19:7 26:7 33:6 36:17,22
7:1,6,14 unfair 20:18 34:10 35:6 43:9,10 44:13 10:1 26:13
27:10,15 unfairly 15:25 36:8 41:24,25 Washington 46:19
28:8 Uniform 25:22 43:17 50:7,17 1:13,20,22 wrestling 20:10
33:15 28:14,21 38:6 4:17 8:11,14 10:16 18:1,13
42:17,18 38:12,18,23 8:17 13:17 X
22:11,12
46:12,24 39:6,10,14,19 30:18,24 33:2 24:22 26:21 x 1:2,12
39:23 40:6,12 34:7,19 45:18 27:9 29:23
31:1,23 Yeah 34:12
22:5 43:10 44:4 53:4,14,17 years 5:16 16:25
38:20 18:16
53:23
17:23 unreasonable weight 4:4 11:24
21:14 36:23 11:25
23:23 unrelated 36:5 well-founded
31:24 uranium 3:13 51:19
36:4,4,5 3:22 4:1,3,8,14 went 19:24
36:1 40:12
43:12 10:7 12:3,10 21:14 37:24
50:9 $300 9:16,17
48:4 12:12,17,18 50:1
39:25 we've 5:3 10:4 $40,000 40:11
32:3,7,11,21
$600 9:16 10:8
34:2,3,4,24 wheat 37:24
48:4,6 varying 4:5 wide 12:20 13:6
version 13:23 wonder 6:5 07-1059 1:5,21
1:10,23
53:24 use 11:23 12:3 virtue 11:6 36:20,25 40:4 2:6 17:12
24:22 33:15 vis-a-vis 11:9 40:10,12 46:10
49:5
5:16
1:17 3:2
55:9
41:3
2:6
49:6
1:14
12:12 32:16
2:8
2:4
1:14
42:22
42:22
35:1
2:11
32:22
16:25 18:16
