IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JESSE JAY MONTEJO, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-1529
LOUISIANA. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 13, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:14 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Petitioner.
KATHRYN W. LANDRY, ESQ., Baton Rouge, La.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
KATHRYN W. LANDRY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:14 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 07-1529, Montejo v.
Louisiana.
Mr. Verrilli.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The question in this case is whether
Petitioner Montejo should be denied the Sixth Amendment
protections of Michigan v. Jackson because he silently
acquiesced in the appointment of counsel at his initial
hearing, rather than affirmatively accepting the
appointment. The Louisiana Supreme Court believed that
an affirmative acceptance was required to trigger
Jackson and therefore upheld the admission of a
confession elicited during police-initiated
interrogation after Montejo's Sixth Amendment right had
attached and after a lawyer had been appointed to
represent him.
If Jackson applies, that confession should
not have been admitted, and Jackson should apply because
nothing in this Court's precedents or, frankly, in
common sense supports a rule that affords less Sixth
Amendment protection to defendants who are automatically
appointed counsel at initial hearings than to defendants
who are appointed counsel after a request for
counsel has --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that the
rationale of Jackson was that the confession is simply
deemed to be coerced if the defendant has expressed --
has expressed -- his desire to have counsel present or
even to be represented by counsel. It isn't clear that,
which is already a stretch, to assume that simply
because I said, you know, I would like to have counsel,
if the police continue to say, well, come on, won't you
talk to us -- it's already a stretch to say it's
automatically coerced.
But now you're saying, even if the defendant
has never expressed even a desire to be represented by
counsel but has simply had counsel appointed, in fact
even if he doesn't know about the appointment of
counsel, the -- his confession is automatically deemed
to be coerced. That seems to me quite, even more
extravagant than Jackson.
MR. VERRILLI: Well, I don't -- without
taking up at the moment the question whether Jackson was
extravagant, it does seem to me, Your Honor, that your
question does get to the heart of the matter. In a
situation like Jackson, the defendant requested counsel
and that was deemed to be an election of the right to
rely on counsel, not merely at the initial hearing but
for all purposes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. Right. What has he
elected here?
MR. VERRILLI: And the question here, it
seems to me, Your Honor, is what does one do when a
defendant is automatically appointed counsel? There are
two options: One is to treat that defendant as having
elected the right to rely on counsel, and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? Why would one do
that?
MR. VERRILLI: And the other option is to
deem that the defendant has decided to go it alone.
Those are the two possibilities here, and it seems to me
that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry to
interrupt, but isn't there a third, which is that you
just don't assume anything and you wait to see if he
makes -- says, "I want to talk to my lawyer," or he
could well say, "You've told me," as was the case here,
"I have a right to a lawyer, I don't have to say
anything, I want to talk some more, I don't -- okay,
there's a lawyer, fine, I want to talk without my
lawyer, I want to waive my right to counsel." Which he
can do.
MR. VERRILLI: I think the problem, Mr.
Chief Justice, is that in the -- it is an either/or
choice because, if you -- if the defendant is deemed to
have elected to rely on counsel on the basis of the
appointment, then the police may not initiate
interrogation. It's only if the defendant --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. If you
prevail and you say silence constitutes saying "I want
to talk to my lawyer," that's right. I'm saying that's
a false, a false alternative.
MR. VERRILLI: Well, I don't think so. I
think if the police initiate interrogation after a
lawyer has been automatically appointed, then that
interrogation either has to be deemed to be in violation
of the rule of Jackson or not, and that seems to me to
depend on how you characterize what happens in the
course of an automatic appointment. If you --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Verrilli, the
defendant himself could say, "Police, I'd like to talk
to you." That would be okay. But this is police
initiation.
MR. VERRILLI: That's absolutely the
critical point, Justice Ginsburg. This is a limited
rule, and the free choice of the defendant to initiate a
conversation with the authorities is always present.
The question is, what do we do in an automatic
appointment situation? And this is a significant
question because -- and I would refer the Court to the
appendix, to the amicus brief of the National Legal Aid
and Defender Association, which I think is a helpful
reference here. It goes through each State, and what it
shows is that approximately half the States have
procedures in which, as a matter of course, the
defendant is asked at the hearing whether he or she
wants counsel, and if the defendant says yes, then we're
in a Jackson situation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just want to make sure I
understood your answer to Justice Ginsburg's question.
Assume a lawyer is appointed. The defendant says, "Yes,
I want my lawyer." He's in the jail cell. The
policeman walks by, he says, "I have a lawyer, but I
want to talk to you now." Can the police talk to him?
MR. VERRILLI: Yes, if he initiates.
Initiation is the key. Initiation --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Well, then it
seems to me that the Miranda protections give you all --
or, the Miranda rules give you all the protection you
need.
MR. VERRILLI: I don't think so, Justice
Kennedy. A couple things. First of all, it seems to me
that to reach that conclusion that the Court really
would have to overrule what is a key holding in Jackson,
and I don't think that that would be appropriate to do
in this case for a whole host of reasons.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm wondering if
there is some further rule, could the prosecutor talk to
the defendant if the defendant was in the cell and the
prosecutor walked by, saying, "I know you have an
attorney, but I would like to talk to you"? Could the
prosecutor do that consistently with the Sixth
Amendment?
MR. VERRILLI: Yes. It depends on
initiation. It depends on who initiates.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Really? The lawyer --
MR. VERRILLI: If the defendant --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The lawyer can talk to a
client for another lawyer?
MR. VERRILLI: Well, if the -- if the
defendant initiates, then the defendant is -- then the
bar of Jackson doesn't apply. That's the rule, but the
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, again, if that's --
if that's the principle that you're operating on and
that you'd concede, then I think the Miranda warnings
would suffice to give all the protection you need.
MR. VERRILLI: I don't -- apart from the
question of whether you can reach that result without
overruling the core holding of Jackson here, it does
seem to me, with all due respect, we don't agree with
that because, on the one hand, we do think that free
choice is preserved in the existing regime and, on the
other, hand we don't think Miranda can give you all the
protection you need.
And I think a good illustration of that is
this Court's decision in the Moran case. Now, recall in
Moran, that was an interrogation that occurred before
the defendant's Sixth Amendment rights had attached, and
the -- and the police -- and the defendant had a lawyer
in that case. His sister had hired a lawyer for him.
The lawyer was trying to reach him. The police kept him
away, kept the lawyer away from the defendant. The
Court held that, in the Fifth Amendment context, because
the Sixth Amendment right had not attached, that the
Miranda warnings sufficed to guarantee the reliability
of the confession.
But the Court was very quick to point out,
and then reiterated this again in Patterson, that in the
Sixth Amendment context that would be a violation
because it's an interference with the relationship
between the defendant and his lawyer, and the ability of
the defendant to rely on the lawyer. And that's the
key.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is that, whether or not
the defendant initiates the contact. I mean, in civil
matters, it's contrary to the ethics of the bar to
interrogate the party on the other side when you know he
has a lawyer, and that would be the case even if he
initiated it. You wouldn't think of negotiating with
him without consulting the other lawyer, saying, "Can I
talk to your client?" So that doesn't stretch over to
this, to this situation.
We're not applying bar ethical rules. We're
applying, supposedly, a rule that determines when a
confession is coerced. All right? That's what we're
doing here.
MR. VERRILLI: Well, what the -- we're
applying -- the question here is whether defendants in
this category, the category that Mr. Montejo is in,
automatic appointment, are entitled to the same Sixth
Amendment protection as defendants who are in the
category of -- who are brought to trial in States where
they -- you have this colloquy as part of the initial
hearing where the defendant is asked.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why couldn't we solve your
practical problem that we don't know in many States
whether the defendant accepted appointment or not, by
simply saying it is not enough to simply accept
appointment of counsel; you must have requested counsel.
To merely say, "Oh, that's great, you appointed me
counsel" --
MR. VERRILLI: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You must have requested it.
And that would be in accord with the holding of Michigan
v. Jackson and would solve all of your -- all of your
practical problems.
MR. VERRILLI: Well, two things, Your Honor.
First, it seems to me that what the dispute here is is
whether there is a principled basis for treating these
two categories of defendants differently, the defendants
who are brought to hearings in States where the
procedures require that they be asked and defendants who
are brought to hearing in States where they are
automatically appointed counsel without a showing of
indigency -- upon a showing of indigency. And I don't
-- I think with respect to the question of practical
problems going forward, sure, if all States -- if the
States in that second category were to conform their
practices such that the defendants were asked and had
the opportunity to say yes, indeed, I want counsel, then
I suppose the problem would be solved. But you really
get to the same place by holding, as we submit the Court
really should hold, that when -- when you have an
automatic appointment, unless there is some reason to
think the defendant is rejecting it, that Jackson kicks
in and that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What happens under Michigan
v. Jackson if I have never requested counsel? I've
never asked the court to appoint counsel, but I've gone
out and hired counsel of my own, right?
MR. VERRILLI: Sure. I think it's quite
clear that the rule of Michigan against Jackson applies,
and that's because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it clear from Michigan
v. Jackson itself, or --
MR. VERRILLI: Well, from cases applying it,
because in that situation the person is deemed to assert
the right to counsel by hiring a lawyer, just as by
asking, and the question here is when you have an
automatic appointment why should you treat that category
of defendants any differently for purposes of applying
the Jackson rule?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Verrilli, do I
understand correctly that the scenario here was the
defendant, uncounseled, was taken before a judicial
officer who read him rather standard information, one
piece of information was, I'm appointing a lawyer for
you? Was there any opportunity for the defendant to say
anything at that hearing?
MR. VERRILLI: And that's the whole problem
here, Justice Ginsburg. All we have is a one-page
minute order which reflects that counsel was appointed.
It doesn't reflect anything about a colloquy because in
the normal course there's not -- there's no occasion for
the colloquy. You come in, you get your lawyer, a
decision about bail is made, and you move on, and the
next person comes in and that happens.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He didn't get -- he
didn't in fact get a lawyer. I thought he was told that
the public defender --
MR. VERRILLI: The Office of Indigent
Counsel is appointed to represents you.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Right, and the actual
lawyer didn't show up until later.
MR. VERRILLI: Right. The way the process
works is -- it's not in the record, but the way the
process works in this judicial district is there is a
legal assistant there who takes the names of people who
need lawyers and then immediately -- and the public
defender service in this district is a contract service.
They're private attorneys who contract out to do it.
And then the legal assistant immediately calls, tells
the lawyers, well, here is who you are representing.
Now, in a case like this one, which is a
capital case, there was of course a great sense of
urgency. There are only two lawyers in this district
who are qualified to represent capital defendants. They
got called immediately. Recall what happened here was
that this hearing took place in the morning and Mr.
Montejo gets taken back to the jail and very soon after
he arrives he gets checked back out by these officers
again and taken out in the squad car where he is kept
for six hours, and in the meantime essentially while
he's going out the back door, while he's being taken out
the back door with the police, his lawyer is coming in
the front door and raising holy heck about the fact that
his client's not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the rule
you're asking for would apply across the board. How
would it apply in a case where the defendant is given
Miranda warnings, says, thank you, I don't want to talk
to my lawyer, I want to talk to you. He's talking to
the police. All of a sudden they bring a note in and
say: They've appointed a lawyer. The police says: I
just got a note; you've been appointed a lawyer. Do you
want to keep talking?
You would say that's a violation, right?
And then he says yes and continues to talk.
MR. VERRILLI: If the police initiated the
interrogation, yes, because I think it gets to the heart
of the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a violation,
even though he knows that if he wanted a lawyer he could
request one, he knows one's been appointed for him, and
he's been warned that if he doesn't want to talk without
a lawyer he doesn't have to, and he's in the middle of a
conversation that he initiated, and the police says, do
you want to keep talking? That's a violation?
MR. VERRILLI: I'm sorry, Mr. Chief Justice.
If the defendant initiated the conversation --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Early on, before the
lawyer was appointed, he's given Miranda warnings and he
says: I want to talk. He's talking. They say: Now,
we just got the word; a lawyer has been appointed; do
you want to keep talking? He says yes. That's a
violation?
MR. VERRILLI: If the police initiated the
interrogation, it's a violation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm trying to
-- which stage are you talking about, before the lawyer
was appointed or after? I'm telling you before he was
appointed, the police did not initiate the conversation.
They told him he didn't have to talk. He says: I want
to talk. Now, you're saying it counts as initiating the
interrogation if they say: You've got a lawyer; do you
want to keep talking?
MR. VERRILLI: No, I think that in that
situation the defendant has initiated and then you've
got the kind of free choice that the law respects, and
that's where the line is drawn here. But that is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is he -- where
is the initiation? Is it when he says, yes, I want to
keep talking, after being told -- asked do you want to
keep talking? Or is it way back at the beginning?
MR. VERRILLI: It's at the outset.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: At the outset.
MR. VERRILLI: At the outset, it seems to
me. He has initiated. He exercises free choice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Isn't that what
happened here? He had been given his Miranda warnings,
right?
MR. VERRILLI: No, it isn't what happened
here at all. In fact, it seems to me the opposite, the
opposite thing happened here. For one thing, as a
factual matter he was told by the police on September
10th that he didn't have a lawyer, despite the fact that
one had been appointed for him in the morning. That was
his testimony.
Now, I recognize that there is a factual
issue here that is not resolved, but the Louisiana
Supreme Court did not discredit that testimony. It
acknowledged it. What it said was -- and I think this
points up, Justice Kennedy, what the problem is with
relying solely on Miranda -- that even in that
situation, even if it's true that the police officers
told him on September 10th that he did not have a
lawyer, that that wouldn't rise to the level of a
problem that would cause a Fifth Amendment issue under
Miranda because of the facts of Moran. And it seems to
me that's exactly the problem there, that that means in
fact, if we apply Moran that way, that the police could
deliberately tell him incorrectly that he didn't have a
lawyer when he did.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But wouldn't that be a
Miranda problem?
MR. VERRILLI: Well, I don't -- well, Moran
says no.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Miranda.
MR. VERRILLI: Well, Moran says that a
Miranda waiver is valid despite that kind of deception.
That's the problem here, it seems to me. It does get to
the difference. In the Fifth Amendment context, the
right to have a lawyer there is a prophylactic
protection against a coerced self-incrimination in the
setting of custodial interrogation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You think, given Moran,
that there was no Miranda violation here?
MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think it would be
hard, given Moran, to say that there was. And that
points up the problem. The essence of this right is the
right to rely on the assistance of counsel at critical
stages and interrogation is a critical stage.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Verrilli, is it part
of your assumption that at the time the police were
doing the interrogating that they knew he had been
appointed a lawyer?
MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think that's a bit
complicated, Justice Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's why I'm interested
in your comment.
MR. VERRILLI: But here's my best way to
work through the facts. Detective Hall, the only
officer who testified, testified that he was not aware.
The State court credited that and we don't take issue
with it. The problem is that this is a police precinct
that has, I don't know, maybe 10, 12 officers in it.
They have a capital murder suspect in there. He was
taken by the police to the hearing. The police were
present at the hearing that morning. He was taken back
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you presume -- do you
argue that we should presume that the entire police
force is aware of what happened in court?
MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think -- I think
under Jackson, Justice Stevens, they are charged with
the knowledge. And I think it's important that they
have to be charged with the knowledge, because otherwise
there is all kinds of room for manipulation and
deception. And I do think that's a big part of the
problem here, that -- and I also think it's important to
point out as a factual matter the one detective who did
testify, Detective Hall, testified very carefully. He
testified that he asked the defendant when he went to
see him whether he had been contacted by counsel or
whether his family had gotten him a lawyer, and of
course neither of those things was true. He was
indigent, his family hadn't gotten him a lawyer, and he
hadn't yet been contacted by counsel. He didn't ask
him: Did you have a lawyer appointed for you?
JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Verrilli, do you think
that Michigan v. Jackson is immune from being reexamined
at this point?
MR. VERRILLI: I think it ought not be
reexamined here, Justice Alito, for several reasons.
One, the Respondent has not asked for it. Two, there's
a special justification that has to be shown to overrule
it, as Dickerson says, in the Miranda context, and this
is quite parallel.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if we were no longer
to adhere to that rule on issues of constitutional
criminal procedure?
MR. VERRILLI: I think it's quite important
that the Court do so, and there was a strong consensus
in Dickerson that the Court do so. I think there's a
real problem. This is not something that should be done
lightly based on four pages of discussion in one amicus
brief. There's a very sharp dividing line in the law
between the Fifth Amendment and the Sixth Amendment
here, and it applies in numerous areas.
It's true, for example, with respect to
lineups. You can have an uncounseled lineup before the
Sixth Amendment right attaches, you can't after. You
can have an uncounseled psychiatric examination before
it attaches, you can't after. You can engage in
surreptitious interrogation of a suspect before the
Fifth Amendment -- before the Sixth Amendment right
attaches; you can't after. Certain kinds of
arraignments have to be done in the presence of counsel.
So it seems to me you would be destabilizing
a whole significant area of law without very much
consideration here were you to say that in this context
we're going to just say that the Fifth Amendment and the
Sixth Amendment operate in an equivalent manner.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We wouldn't be saying that.
We would just be saying that it is unrealistic to think
that a confession is coerced simply because the police
initiated the conversation so long as he said: Okay,
I'll speak without my counsel present. That's all we --
I don't see how it would infect any of these other
areas. It would just say that's -- that's one bridge
too far. This is prophylaxis on prophylaxis.
MR. VERRILLI: You would be overruling
Jackson in that regard.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's true, but not much
else.
MR. VERRILLI: And in a case in which it
seems to me manifestly not appropriate to do so, given
the lack of consideration given to this by the
Respondent --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a different
question.
MR. VERRILLI: And -- well, this is serious
business. You are going to overrule a precedent that's
been in place for more than 20 years, that provides a
very clear bright-line rule for the police to -- to
manage their affairs with not the slightest showing that
this rule is presenting any practical problems in its
administration out there in the field. Nobody has even
argued that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, Mr. Verrilli, you
have spoken of -- of overruling a bright line, but I
think there is something else that would be involved in
the overruling. And I -- I haven't pulled Jackson back
out since I came on the bench, so this is where you've
got to help me out.
There is a -- there is a difference between
the way you are phrasing the Sixth Amendment right and
the way, for example, Justice Scalia has phrased it in
his question. Justice Scalia has phrased it in terms of
determining what is a coerced confession. You have
phrased it in your argument in terms of saying a right
to rely upon counsel, which is a much broader concept.
Does Jackson support the notion that he
simply has a right to rely upon counsel? I think that
is your principal argument here because that would be
the argument that supports your claim that there
shouldn't be a distinction between a case in which the
State simply appoints counsel without being asked and a
case in which he actually asks for counsel. That would
be a nice way of rationalizing that distinction.
Isn't it the case that you understand
Jackson to be a broader rule than a merely no-coercion
rule? And, number two, if that is so, then overruling
Jackson would, as I take it, in your view be more than
simply substituting a -- a one bright-line coercion rule
for a different bright-line coercion rule. So what are
your responses to those two questions?
MR. VERRILLI: That is absolutely correct,
Justice Souter. The text of the Sixth Amendment
provides that the -- the accused shall have the right to
the assistance of counsel. The essence of the right is
the right to rely on the lawyer at critical stages of
the proceeding.
And what Jackson says is that that right
deserves a very significant measure of protection, and
we are going to assume that once a defendant asserts it,
the defendant wants the -- wants the assistance of
counsel through every critical stage of the proceeding.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You have to assume that his
voluntary relinquishment of it is somehow coerced. I
mean there -- there is no way around that. The man has
said: I know I have counsel, but that's okay; I'll talk
anyway. And you say: So long as the police have
initiated that conversation, we will deem it to be
coerced. You can't get around the coercion aspect of --
of this matter. But that question is whether that is at
all realistic.
MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think -- I think the
facts of this case make it quite clear that it's a very
serious risk. Here you have a situation in which a
defendant who, after all, even before his right attached
has been subjected to very, very aggressive tactics that
the Louisiana Supreme Court recognized presented even a
close case even -- even under the Fifth Amendment.
Then he -- he finally has a 72-hour hearing.
He gets a lawyer appointed. As soon as he gets back,
they take him out in a squad car for six or seven hours,
at the end of which he produces a -- an apology-letter
confession written on a pad with a pen given to him by
the police officers and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Again, you are
arguing the facts of a particular case, and we are
looking at a rule that is going to apply across the
board. In a particular case, as you say, the Louisiana
Supreme Court said this almost violated his Fifth
Amendment right. There are protections against the
actual coercion, which it seems to me you're arguing.
As I understood Justice Scalia's question, he says:
Don't you have to assume that there is coercion even in
the mildest case, not the most extreme one, but the
mildest one?
MR. VERRILLI: No, you have -- what you have
is a right to rely on the assistance of your lawyer, and
you have -- and -- and it's critical. A good example of
why it's critical --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A right that you can
relinquish, a right that you can waive, and all that's
being suggested is that it is not totally determinative
whether the police say: Do you want to keep talking, or
if the defendant says: I want to keep talking.
MR. VERRILLI: But Jackson drew a clear
line. It did so because -- and the Court has said -- it
was a -- a prophylactic rule, but it's a prophylactic
rule that represents -- reflects the centrality of -- of
the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right, and whether
or --
MR. VERRILLI: -- criminal process.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- whether or not
your -- your dialogue with my colleagues about
overruling Jackson -- putting that to one side, what you
are arguing is an extension of Jackson from the context
in which it arose to this context.
MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think two -- two
points on that, Mr. Chief Justice: First, I think it
would actually break new ground for this Court to hold
that the defendant who has a lawyer isn't entitled to
the protection of Jackson. This Court has never held
that. And every time it has addressed the issue, it
said the opposite. Admittedly in dictum, but in
Patterson and Moran it said the opposite. So that is
what is really breaking new ground, it seems to me.
And second, the only way to treat these two
categories of people differently is to come up with a
principled distinction for why the right should apply
differently to one than the other, and I submit that
none has been offered.
I would like to reserve the balance of my
time. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Landry.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KATHRYN W. LANDRY
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. LANDRY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The generous prophylactic rule of Michigan
v. Jackson which imputed a defendant's request for
counsel in one forum, i.e., his arraignment, to another
forum of post-attachment custodial interrogation should
not be expanded in this case to a defendant who has done
nothing whatsoever to make such a request.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did he have an
opportunity to do it at the so-called 72-hour hearing?
Was there any -- did the judicial officer ever ask him
anything about whether he wanted counsel, whether he
accepted counsel? Was there any colloquy between them
at all?
MS. LANDRY: Not that I'm aware of, Justice
Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And is that standard
operating procedure at these 72-hour hearings: That the
-- the defendant, who is there uncounseled is -- is just
standing there, and the judicial officer says: I'm
appointing counsel for you, and he goes on to the next
thing he's telling him?
MS. LANDRY: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that how it operates?
MS. LANDRY: Yes, Your Honor, that is how it
operates.
But I think one of the fallacies of
Petitioner's argument is that it leads to the conclusion
that this defendant had to make that choice at that
moment at that hearing, and that is not what we have
asserted either in the Louisiana Supreme Court or at
this Court.
Our position is he needs to make a request.
Whether the request is made in the court proceeding,
which Jackson said he can make it in the court
proceeding and it applies thereafter to critical stages,
which would include custodial interrogation, but in this
case after they approached him again, there's no request
at the hearing --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did anybody ever tell him
he needed to request? I mean, he had just been told by
a judicial officer: I'm appointing counsel for you.
He's not counseled at that point. How does he know
that, in order to protect his right to counsel, he has
to make some kind of an affirmative assertion? He's
just been told he's got one.
MS. LANDRY: Because subsequently, when the
police approached him, again there being no request
prior to this that prohibited them from approaching him,
they provided him with his Miranda rights, which
Patterson says is sufficient in the context of a
custodial interrogation that takes place
post-attachment.
They provided him with his rights, which
included the right to counsel, and he then waived those
rights. In fact, this particular defendant on seven
occasions, three of which -- four of which were
pre-attachment and three of which were post-attachment,
was given his rights, including the right to counsel,
and each of those seven times waived in writing those
rights.
Our position is what he needed to do for
Jackson is make some sort of request or some sort of
positive assertion that he was asserting his request for
counsel.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I would have no problem
at all with the argument you are making if someone had
told him that he needed to do that. But he didn't have
a judge to tell him that; he didn't have a lawyer to
tell him that; and the police certainly didn't tell him
that.
MS. LANDRY: No, but when the police did
approach him after that 72-hour hearing, they advised
him again of his rights, including his right to counsel,
and asked him if he wished to waive those rights.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Excuse me. They advised
him, you say, of his right to counsel. If they gave him
the standard Miranda warning, what they said was: You
have the right to have a counsel appointed. They didn't
say: You have a lawyer who has been appointed. And, in
fact, his testimony at least is that they told him the
opposite. But if all they did was give him the Miranda
warning, they certainly were not informing him of his
Sixth Amendment right or his Sixth Amendment status.
MS. LANDRY: I would respectfully disagree,
Your Honor, because in Patterson the Court said that the
Miranda rights were sufficient to apprise a defendant of
his post-attachment Sixth Amendment rights. Did they
tell him you have a lawyer appointed? No. In fact,
Detective Hall testified that he was not aware of the
72-hour hearing or the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's very puzzling.
This is an experienced police officer. The 72-hour
hearing is required in every case where defendant is in
State custody. So how could an experienced police
officer not know? Somebody, by the way, who knew this
man had been kept until -- even more than 72 hours. And
he testifies -- it's true that Detective Hall testified:
I didn't know that he appointed -- had been appointed a
lawyer. The very same day that he got to the 72-hour
hearing a day late, how could he not have known?
MS. LANDRY: I can't answer that question.
I can only answer the question that all of the officers
testified that they were not aware that counsel had been
appointed for the defendant that morning.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, of course, they know
-- it's a death case -- that counsel is going to be
appoint -- or it's a murder case -- that counsel is
going to be appointed. Everybody knows that except this
defendant. He doesn't know; of course he doesn't know.
MS. LANDRY: I understand. They testified
that they weren't aware that counsel had not been
appointed that morning.
JUSTICE BREYER: Just to clarify in my mind.
Case one, the defendant has no lawyer. He is -- they
give him Miranda warning. He says: I don't want a
lawyer. Okay. Now, do you want to speak against
yourself? Yes, he says, I do. Sorry, strike -- he
says: No, I don't; I don't want to say anything, but I
don't want a lawyer.
Six hours later the policemen say to him:
Are you really sure that you don't want to speak? He
says: Well, maybe I will, and he makes a full
absolutely voluntary decision. That's okay under the
Constitution, right?
MS. LANDRY: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now, it's the same
case, except this time he says: I have a lawyer; I
hired him yesterday. Now the policeman cannot say, are
you sure? Is that correct?
MS. LANDRY: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the law. So, the
law is -- and the reason for that second is because once
you have a lawyer, police communicate through the
lawyer. Isn't that the reason, basically? I just
always thought that was the reason. Once a person has a
lawyer, another lawyer communicates through the lawyer.
They don't go and talk to the client. I thought that
was the kind of rationale for it. Maybe I'm wrong.
MS. LANDRY: No, I don't think that you're
wrong. I think that is part of the rationale. What
Jackson is trying to do was to deter --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now, if the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I think it's --
I think it's wrong. I think it's common ground that so
long as he says, even though I have a lawyer, I'll talk
to you, that's okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not talking about that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's not okay in
civil cases, but it's perfectly okay here.
JUSTICE BREYER: I was trying to give a
hypothetical and my hypothetical is a different one than
you were just told. In my hypothetical the person has a
lawyer, and I thought where he has a lawyer the police
are not allowed to go and ask him questions about
whether he wants to waive. Of course, he can volunteer
it. Am I right about that?
MS. LANDRY: Yes, but I also thought that
your hypothetical included the fact that he told the
police that he had a lawyer, I retained one yesterday,
which I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's correct, that's
correct.
MS. LANDRY: -- which I think goes further.
JUSTICE BREYER: Correct.
MS. LANDRY: To me that connotes under
Jackson --
JUSTICE BREYER: Correct, that's the
conundrum of the case. Now I understand it. The
conundrum of this case is he didn't tell the police, I
have a lawyer. He had one.
Now, if he had hired one and not told the
police, it would be the same result as we just said,
wouldn't it? If he had one but didn't tell the police,
the police could not initiate questioning; am I right or
wrong? All I'm driving at is shouldn't the result here
be the same?
MS. LANDRY: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: The same whether you hired
the lawyer or the same whether the lawyer was appointed?
At least that's what's in my head. And if you can show
me that you want the same result in both cases, that
would go a long way towards convincing me.
MS. LANDRY: I would disagree with your last
hypothetical because if a defendant goes out and hires a
lawyer but never says anything to the police, he makes
no request, no statement to them regarding the lawyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: He tells some of the
police. Some of the police know. It just happens that
these particular ones don't.
MS. LANDRY: I think if he voices to the
police some type of positive affirmation -- I have a
lawyer, I got a lawyer yesterday -- to me that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me just interrupt.
Isn't it perfectly realistic to presume that the police
knew at the 72-hour hearing he was appointed a lawyer?
MS. LANDRY: Well, I don't know that you can
presume that. I mean, you would be overriding the
testimony of the officers.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But it happens in 99
percent of the cases, I think, in a capital case. And
surely, the police should be presumed to know what the
normal procedure is.
MS. LANDRY: And in this case, even if you
presumed that they knew that he had a lawyer, I still
don't think it overrides the key issue in Jackson as I
see it, which is his request for counsel, some type of
affirmation or statement or action to the police that he
wants to deal through his counsel.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that doesn't go to the
issue in this case. The issue in this case, as I
understand it, is not that he lost because he failed to
make a request. He lost because he failed to make it
affirmatively clear that he accepted the appointment of
the lawyer who had, in fact, been appointed for him as
he had been told. That's not a request.
As I understand it, under the -- under the
State court ruling, if he had stood at the 72-hour
hearing and the court had said, we're appointing the X
office to defend you, and he had said, great, that would
have changed the result in this case; isn't that
correct?
MS. LANDRY: Yes, I think so.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So the issue is not
request. The issue is acceptance. That's what it
seems -- just to get my point, that's what seems to me
to be the acute point of several of the questions you
have been asked. Why -- we're not talking about
requests. Why should it make a constitutional
difference whether the man stands in a Tennessee
courtroom and simply stands silent when they said,
you've got a lawyer --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Louisiana.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- as distinct from a case
where they say you have got a lawyer, and he says,
that's fine?
MS. LANDRY: Well, I would disagree with the
characterization. As I see the case, the question is
Jackson turned on the fact that that defendant had asked
for, had requested the help of a lawyer. Patterson said
so. Patterson said Jackson turned on --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but in this very
case, if there had been a court reporter present --
present, and if the record showed that this defendant
said, thank you, I would like to be represented, then he
would have been protected, right?
MS. LANDRY: I think he would have under
Jackson.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Louisiana does not -- does
not provide a transcript of all these hearings, does it?
MS. LANDRY: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So what would -- what
should we presume to be the general practice that
happened, that most of them say, no, I don't want one or
most of them will say, thank you?
MS. LANDRY: Well, probably in most cases
nothing is said. But, again -- and that goes back to my
earlier point, the police then approached -- I mean, the
defendant could have said something at the hearing, but
presuming nothing was said --
JUSTICE STEVENS: He had no -- no way of
knowing that being silent would produce a different
result than saying, yes, I'm happy with the lawyer.
Does the uncounseled defendant have any way to know
that? Does the routine require the judge to tell him,
you have got a lawyer, but he's not going to be
available unless you say you want him?
MS. LANDRY: No, because I think
subsequently if he doesn't say anything when the police
approach him, they tell him he has the right to counsel,
and at that point he can exercise that right and say, I
want a lawyer, I don't want to talk to you without a
lawyer.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Landry, I don't really
understand what you're arguing here. I thought you were
saying there has to be a request in your response to
Justice Souter, but then you accept as sufficient his
merely saying thank you. That's not a request.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did the Louisiana Supreme
Court say there has to be a request? I thought they
said there had to be some action, affirmative act of
acceptance.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what I thought, too.
But you were saying there had to be a request. You
abandon that? There doesn't have to be a request?
MS. LANDRY: No, I think there does have to
be a request --
JUSTICE SCALIA: "Thank you" is not a
request.
MS. LANDRY: I'm sorry, I didn't finish
my --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You're not merely defending
the State court here. You're asking for a -- in effect,
a different rule from that which the State court
applied.
MS. LANDRY: No, we believe that the State
court was correct when it held that some type of
positive affirmation -- and that to me is the whole
question --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then are you equating
positive affirmation with request for a lawyer?
MS. LANDRY: Yes. I think there has to be
some action --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then on your -- then on
your theory, this individual's Sixth Amendment right
would not have attached if he had stood in the courtroom
and said, thank you very much, that's great.
MS. LANDRY: Well, whether the Sixth
Amendment right attached I think is a different issue
from whether the Jackson rule applies to then bar any
police-initiated conversation with him, and the issue I
think in this case is whether or not his silence -- the
Petitioner has argued that the mere appointment of
counsel with nothing further by this defendant
constituted the request necessary under Jackson to
invoke the rule.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: One of my concerns is that
Jackson is a formality, but you're arguing for a
formality on top of a formality. I don't know what
functional purpose is served by your position that he
has to request the lawyer at the arraignment, especially
when he's not versed in the law, he's in this stressful
situation, and you require a formalistic request on the
part of the defendant? It just makes no sense to me.
MS. LANDRY: But Your Honor, I'm not
requiring a formalized request on the part of the
defendant at the hearing.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, you're requiring some
kind of ritualistic phrase to indicate that he -- that
he accepts the appointment.
MS. LANDRY: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That he requests the
appointment.
MS. LANDRY: No, sir. I believe that he can
remain silent, but later, just as in this case, the
police approach him; under Patterson they give him his
rights, which include right to counsel. At that point
he can request and invoke, and then Jackson becomes
applicable because he has made a request.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understood you to
concede that if he had made that request at the 72-hour
hearing, the outcome of this case would be different.
MS. LANDRY: Yes, because Jackson says he
can make the request --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The key time is did he
make the request at the hearing, not at the time he was
confronted by the officers.
MS. LANDRY: I was just saying he can make
it either time. The fallacy of their argument is that
he has to make it --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But it's sufficient
protection for him if you presume, as is true in most
States, that he did make the request, then you would
lose. You would argue against such a presumption, I
know, but if we did indulge that presumption, the case
would be over.
MS. LANDRY: Clearly I would argue against
any such presumption; that's the whole reason -- the key
to Jackson was --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, I didn't
understand you to be doing that. I thought your
position was once there's a request, there's a request,
and that's enough.
MS. LANDRY: Yes, I do.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you're also arguing, it
seems to me, that a request -- well, you're -- I think
you're arguing two different things. On the one hand,
you're arguing that a request is necessary, and yet on
the other hand, I understood you to concede in answer to
a question from me that if he had stood in the courtroom
in Tennessee, having been told that counsel was
appointed for him and had said, yes, thank you, I accept
that lawyer, that that would have been sufficient to
satisfy Jackson, and that would have made the difference
in this case.
Those are two different positions.
MS. LANDRY: Well, but I think the question
boils down to whether or not the latter hypothetical,
"yes, I want one," whether that is enough to constitute
the request under Jackson.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, so far as I
understand it, and you correct me if I'm wrong, but as I
understand it, what the State Supreme Court said was not
that he had to make a request, "I want a lawyer," but
simply that he had to indicate in some way that he
accepted the appointment of the lawyer which he had been
told had been appointed for him; and that is a different
situation from Jackson.
So if -- if you are saying, yes, if he had
said "thank you, I accept the lawyer," that would have
been enough, then that in effect is -- is maintaining
the position that the State court took; but if you're
saying something more, that he had to say then or later
on, "I want a lawyer," then I think you're going beyond
the case that we have in front of us. Am I wrong?
MS. LANDRY: No, you're not wrong.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So I -- I suppose
what the dialogue simply establishes is that like in any
situation there's going to be factual issues about
what's a request or not. I mean, he could say, the
court says I'm appointing Johnson, and he says,
"Johnson? Is that the best you can do?" And the
question is, is that accepting Johnson or not? He says
is that the best you can do? Maybe it is, maybe it's
not. I mean, but the point is whether or not you
establish a rule that requires some request, and in the
odd case there will be a debate about what's a request
or not, but the issue is the general rule.
MS. LANDRY: Yes, Your Honor, that's
correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't -- I don't --
I agree with Justice Souter. I -- acceptance is
something different from a request. As I read the --
the State court's opinion, it was setting up a sort of
offer and acceptance scenario. The State was offering
him counsel, said, "I appoint counsel," but it was
ineffective until he says yes, "I accept counsel,"
whereupon, you know, he's lawyered up, but he isn't
lawyered up until he says "I accept," and that's
something quite different from -- from requesting
counsel.
MS. LANDRY: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, are you -- are you
standing on the -- on the State court's analysis or not?
MS. LANDRY: Yes, Your Honor, and I think
the State court analysis comes from -- well, it came
from the Fifth Circuit case of Montoya which was very
similar factually, and the Fifth Circuit relied on the
Court's opinion in Patterson, and I believe cited a
footnote from Patterson that refers to, you know,
affirmative acceptance of the appointment of counsel.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But this is still an
artificial framework, because we know that in this case
he has to have a lawyer under Gideon unless he waives it
after being fully advised. You couldn't rely just on --
on the failure to make a request not to proceed with a
trial lawyer. Of course he's going to have a lawyer
unless after he very, very careful colloquy from the
district judge or the trial judge, declines.
So it seems to me that this -- this whole
framework here is quite artificial. Now, I do think
there's a Miranda problem here, if we accept his -- the
defendant's testimony that the police told him, "oh no,
you don't have a lawyer." I know there's a factual
issue on that. And I -- I think the counsel for the
Petitioner may not be quite correct in Moran v Burbine.
I didn't have time to talk with him about that. There
there was no misleading; they just didn't tell him that
he had a lawyer. Here, assuming his version of the
facts is correct, they told him, "oh, no, you don't have
a lawyer," they affirmatively misled him, and it seems
to me that's a Miranda problem, if it's true, and that
Miranda is completely sufficient to protect his rights.
MS. LANDRY: But also, if I can address that
factual issue, because I think it is important in the
context here, because the question presented to this
Court, the assignment of error at the Louisiana Supreme
Court was only premised on the fact that counsel was
appointed.
There was never any argument -- they bring
up the factual issues about, well, the defendant
testified at trial that he told them he had a lawyer,
and the officers testified he didn't, to make it appear
there's a factual issue there; but if you look back at
the proceedings in this case, the motion to suppress,
which is at the Joint Appendix page 6, never alleged any
of those issues. It only alleged that his statements
were not free and voluntary.
Then the suppression hearing comes. Now,
most of the effort at the suppression hearing was toward
the videotape which is not at issue here, but the
argument by the defendant's counsel on this issue was
merely what exactly it is here, that the mere
appointment of counsel was sufficient to trigger
Jackson, and therefore everything after that should not
have been admitted.
There was never any testimony at the
suppression hearing by the defendant or anyone else that
he had been -- that he told the officers, "I've been
appointed counsel," "I think I've been appointed
counsel," "I think I might have a lawyer."
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's just that everything
after -- as far as I understand, the only piece of
evidence we're talking about is his condolence letter to
the widow which amounted to a confession of guilt.
MS. LANDRY: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There is no other.
Because all of the Mirandized free 72-hour hearing, all
that is not in contest; all of that came in.
MS. LANDRY: That's correct, it's just
the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I ask -- I'm getting a
different idea from what you're arguing. I want to try
it on you and see what your response is. It's simply
this, that there's something backwards about this case,
and what's backwards is this, that when they're talking
about a prophylactic rule in Jackson, what they're
thinking of is the following: Everyone agrees that when
a person really has a counsel, at that point, unlike the
Miranda point, the police cannot talk to him further,
though he can initiate.
Now, everyone agreeing, what do we do with a
case where a person doesn't have a lawyer, but he
requests one? Now, in such a circumstance, we're going
to treat it as if he had one. That's the prophylactic
part. But here's a case where he really has one. So it
doesn't fall outside Jackson. It falls within the basic
assumption of Jackson, that the difference between
having a lawyer and not having a lawyer is, if you have
a lawyer, the police can initiate nothing. You can't
talk to him.
Now, if that's right, your case -- I mean,
I'm afraid, their side, for your point of view, is a
fortiori for Jackson, not the borderline of Jackson.
Now, explain to me why I've got it wrong.
MS. LANDRY: Because, in our case and in the
case where there's just counsel appointed, again I go
back to the issue, there's no request; there's no
positive action by the defendant constituting a request
in indicating that he's requesting a lawyer, which was
the basis of the ruling in Jackson. It was -- and
Patterson later said, Jackson turned on the fact that
that defendant had asked for a lawyer.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, isn't the prophylactic
aspect of Jackson not what Justice Breyer just said, but
the rule that a person who has a lawyer is thereafter
incapable of waiving the assistance of the lawyer if the
person wishes to speak with the police and the police
happen to initiate the conversation? You could have a
defendant who's the most experienced criminal defense
attorney in the world, who knows everything there is to
know about trial tactics, who has a lawyer and decides
it's in my best interest now to speak to the police.
They happen to initiate it. But Jackson has a
prophylactic rule that says even in that situation, it
can't be done. That's the prophylactic aspect of
Jackson, isn't it?
MS. LANDRY: Well, I would disagree --
JUSTICE BREYER: Accept that, for argument's
sake. Accept that, and then same -- same question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, why don't
you answer Justice Alito's question?
MS. LANDRY: I was going to say that I
disagree to the -- to the extent that I think part of
the basis of Jackson was wanting to deter police from
badgering a defendant into waiving a right that he had
already asserted. That was the crux, it seemed to me,
of Jackson, that this defendant had asserted his right
to counsel at the arraignment. They then approached him
later. And the Court found that that was a form of
police badgering to then approach him after he had made
the request for counsel. And I believe that that's one
of the differentiations in this case, where we talk
about whether there's a request for counsel.
JUSTICE BREYER: Interesting. I think this
is very interesting to me because I'm learning a lot.
Suppose -- Let's assume Justice Alito is absolutely
right and that when you have a counsel, that's what
you've done and that's the reason why you don't talk to
the police, or at least they can't initiate. Fine.
Take that as the rationale, and now apply it to this
case. Since he has a lawyer, whether he said yes, no,
maybe, "I accept" or not, it would have nothing to do
with it. The same rationale would apply or would it?
MS. LANDRY: No, I don't think it would.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because?
MS. LANDRY: Because, again, the appointment
of counsel, as in this case, was an action taken by the
State. There was no action by this defendant asserting
or requesting counsel. This was a State action: We're
appointing counsel for you. It's a pro forma thing that
goes on, and then subsequently they go through the
paperwork to determine whether he's qualified --
JUSTICE BREYER: I see.
MS. LANDRY: -- to receive indigent counsel.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask you: If the
case had gone to trial without any intermediate
proceeding -- they just show up for the day of trial --
and there's no record of whether he accepted the lawyer
earlier, would the State judge start out with the
presumption that Faretta would apply and he's going on
his own, or would they start out with the assumption
that he is going to have a lawyer?
MS. LANDRY: No, Your Honor, because,
obviously, just as Patterson discussed, the waiver issue
is much different when you're talking about a defendant
proceeding through a legal proceeding representing
himself than it is in the context here.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So you're drawing a
distinction between this -- the kind of proceeding
that's involved? He doesn't really need help on
deciding whether to confess, but he does need help if
they go to trial?
MS. LANDRY: Well, it's not that he doesn't
need help, but he's advised of his right to counsel and
can voluntarily choose, exercise his own free will,
whether he wants counsel or not.
JUSTICE STEVENS: There's an irony in this
case that Justice Kennedy put a finger on earlier: If
there were a civil case, whether you could go talk to a
lawyer -- a client, rather, who was represented by a
lawyer, the answer would be quite clear: You could not,
as a matter of professional ethics.
MS. LANDRY: Right, and I think that that's
true of the --
JUSTICE STEVEN: And the Constitution gives
less protection than the -- than the professional ethics
does.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, the usual legal
rule is that silence implies consent, right? Read the
prosecution of Thomas More. That's the legal rule. So
why shouldn't we assume consent just from the fact that
he stood silent?
MS. LANDRY: Because, again, in Jackson, the
assertion or the request for counsel is what implies to
the police that this defendant does not want to deal
with the police on his own, that he wishes to only
communicate through counsel. And the Sixth Amendment
right that attached and his right to counsel is just
that: It's a right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Landry, you're trying
to explain your position, let's assume, to an
intelligent layperson, and the first example is, in many
States at the equivalent of the 72-hour hearing, the
defendant is told: The court is prepared to appoint a
lawyer for you. Would you like us to appoint a lawyer?
And the defendant will say yes. So he will have made
the request for a lawyer. And then there are States
like Louisiana where this is a rapid-fire proceeding,
and the defendant isn't asked any questions, he isn't
asked to agree or disagree, and he doesn't have any
lawyer there to assist him.
So you are essentially asking the Court to
make a distinction between defendants in the same
position, both uncounseled, both not knowledgeable in
the law, but the one who has the good fortune to be in a
State where the judge tells the defendant, "You have a
right to have a lawyer. Would you like me to appoint
one?" And then this procedure. Shouldn't defendant's
rights turn on that distinction in the State law?
MS. LANDRY: Yes, because the police then
approach him under Patterson, give him his rights, which
includes the right to counsel. He has every right to
then exercise his free will, if he didn't do so at the
hearing, and invoke his right to counsel.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MS. LANDRY: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Verrilli, you
have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. VERRILLI: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
A couple points of clarification, if I
might: Counsel for Respondent has made the suggestion
that the only facts that are before you are the facts
that were in the suppression hearing, rather than the
facts that were subsequently adduced at trial when Mr.
Montejo testified that he told them he didn't want to go
with them and he thought he had a lawyer and was told he
didn't. That's not correct as a matter of Louisiana
law. The citation there is State v. Green, 655 Southern
2d 272, where it's quite clear as a matter of Louisiana
law that the supreme court evaluates the entire record.
It's not clear as a matter of federal law. That was one
of the holdings of Arizona against Fulminante. Now, we
cited that case for harmless error purposes, not this
purpose, but --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But, Mr. Verrilli --
MR. VERRILLI: -- but quite clear --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- you just struck two
chords: One, harmless error; the other, that this
defendant testified at his trial. We have held that a
defendant's statements, although he wasn't given his
Jackson right, can come in by way of impeachment if he
testifies. So in this defendant's case, even if we
accept everything you say, the -- that condolence letter
could have been used for impeachment purposes.
MR. VERRILLI: Yes. We don't contest that,
Justice Ginsburg. Of course, it wasn't used for
impeachment purposes; it was used in fact as substantive
evidence, and there was no limiting instruction to let
the jury know that it could only be considered for that
limited purpose. And I don't think that suffices even
remotely to overcome the harmless error problem here.
The second point of clarification, it does
seem to me clear, both from pages 14 and 15 of
Respondent's brief and Respondent's argument here today
and in particular the citation to the Montoya case in
the Fifth Circuit, they are not advocating a request
rule; they are advocating a request or assertion rule.
In fact, the very passage in Montoya to which
Respondent's counsel adverts -- it says there doesn't
have to be a request so long as there is an assertion.
And that's the principle they're advocating.
It just doesn't make any sense as a sensible dividing
line between categories of defendants who are protected
by Jackson and those who aren't for the reasons that we
have discussed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Verrilli, I don't
understand your response to Justice Ginsburg. I mean,
it seems to me, if this thing was going to come in
anyway, how could you possibly say it was harmful and
not harmless error?
MR. VERRILLI: Well, it would come --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What difference does it
make whether it's introduced in the case in chief or
whether it's introduced to refute the defendant's
assertion that he didn't do it?
MR. VERRILLI: Well, if it's introduced in
the case in chief, it's substantive evidence on which
the prosecution relied or can rely to establish the
case. It's very much like Fulminante in that regard.
There were two confessions, one admissible, the other
inadmissible. And it was the self-reinforcing character
of the two that made it not a harmless error for
Fulminante. We really have the same thing.
But, if I could, I would like to get back,
Justice Kennedy, to the Moran case. I do think, with
all due respect, there was an element of deception in
Moran that was sanctioned as consistent with Miranda.
Two things happened there: The police informed Moran's
lawyer that they -- incorrectly, falsely -- that they
weren't going to interrogate him, but they also failed
to inform Moran that he had a lawyer, and the lawyer was
standing out there. And that's fully as much of a
deception as telling somebody he doesn't have a lawyer
when he does, or withholding information that made a big
difference for Sixth Amendment purposes, which is why
the Court in Moran drew that line very sharply and said,
for Fifth Amendment purposes, the Sixth Amendment right
hasn't attached, there isn't an interference with the
attorney-client relationship, but the very same thing
would be forbidden under the Sixth Amendment.
And Patterson says exactly the same thing.
In Patterson, again -- just to conclude, Justice Breyer
-- drew the line exactly where Your Honor's hypothetical
drew it. What Patterson says is that, if a defendant
does not have a lawyer, we operate one way; when a
defendant has a lawyer, a different set of rules kick
in. And then, it says, indeed the different rules kick
in even if a defendant requests a lawyer, making clear
that the point of extending to request was to put
defendants who have asked for lawyers but don't have
them yet in the same position as defendants who have
lawyers, not to give them a superior Sixth Amendment
protection.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Verrilli.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:15 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
57:3 advocating anyway 24:5 12:6,22 35:14 artificial 44:9,17
31:24 affairs 22:8 apart 9:4 42:11 44:7 11:19 12:1,11
affirmation apology-letter 45:25 49:18 16:15 19:20
42:15 38:23 39:1 appear 45:14 apprise 30:12 29:25 36:3,14
44:18 affirmative 3:17 APPEARAN... approach 29:23 47:24 52:6,7
49:14 28:20 38:6 1:14 37:20 40:11 56:19
44:7 appendix 7:7 49:2 52:18 asking 12:21
38:7 3:15 35:14 applicable 40:14 28:13,23 37:8 52:9
44:7 45:2 applied 38:20 48:25 asks 23:6
35:14 afraid 47:14 12:14 20:21 28:24 48:12
50:5 aggressive 24:14 28:11 39:10 appropriate 8:6 assert 12:19
52:7 14:21,22 17:18 approximately 48:23,24
47:25 49:8 12:23 argue 19:9 41:4 54:16,19 55:9
47:20 alternative 6:13 appointed 3:21 arguing 24:24 assistance 18:13
Amendment 4:3,4,18 5:10 25:4 26:4 23:18,24 25:10
8:14 9:15,20 11:21 13:9,19 41:15,17,18 assistant 13:25
30:9,9,13 39:5 31:13 34:5,21 45:11,23 53:1 51:13,23
56:4,6,6,9,21 42:12 45:10 argument's assumption
amounted 46:11 27:21 28:17 arose 26:5 attached 3:21
44:2 49:22 27:5 39:21 39:6,9 51:20
2:4,6,9 3:8 carefully 19:19 chief 3:3,9 5:19 colloquy 10:25
believe 38:21 8:7 9:13,17 15:9,16,18 44:14
believed 3:16 14:22 21:23 24:23 25:13,23 26:16 53:25
43:5 48:9 25:7 27:7 48:17 52:22,24 44:2 45:20
10:22 12:6 bit 18:19 33:19,20 35:1 choice 6:6 7:2 common 4:1
board 14:21 35:4,11,11,21 9:9 16:11,20 32:20
5:10 boils 42:3 39:12 40:10,17 choose 50:22 32:9 51:19
11:21 borderline 41:5,25 42:20 chords 53:22 communicates
27:15 breaking 26:14 47:4,7,13,17 circumstance complicated
31:4,12 Breyer 31:14 47:18 49:4,13 47:5 18:20
33:1,12,15,18 51:1 53:17 54:14 40:16 41:19
46:18 54:1,14 55:7 cited 44:5 53:17 concept 22:24
bridge 21:17 cases 12:18 claim 23:3 conclusion 8:4
16:16 54:13 35:1 37:6 53:4 54:11 condolence
22:15 bright 22:13 categories 11:17 clarify 31:14 46:10 54:2
37:7 bright-line 22:7 26:16 54:22 clear 4:10 12:14 confess 50:18
47:19 23:12,13 category 10:21 12:16 22:7 confession 3:19
bring 14:25 10:21,24 11:25 24:11 25:18 3:23 4:7,20
broader 22:24 cause 17:15 53:13,15,20 21:13 22:22
brought 10:24 centrality 25:21 Clearly 41:7 confessions
changed 35:21 close 24:16 40:22
48:21 capital 14:7,9 6:19 coercion 23:12 consideration
7:13 11:6,6,8 44:2 45:8,9 8:22 9:16,19 19:18,19 30:15
13:9,19 18:13 courtroom 36:6 14:22 15:17 48:21
23:1,5,6,18,25 9:13 43:15,25 25:17 26:9 determine 49:24
51:7 27:5,12,13,21 credited 19:1 29:6 30:12,19 10:16
36:4 29:9,15,24 25:25 48:6 34:10 36:14,19 22:22
40:12 41:21 28:11 47:20,24 48:6 20:16
44:7,21 45:9 custodial 18:7 50:12 51:17 difference 18:4
18:4 20:9 46:7,25 47:18 29:2 53:23 56:13,15 41:24 47:9
26:4,5 48:17,25 49:3 custody 30:20 56:17 55:6 56:4
45:7 49:5,9,19,21 defendants 4:2,3 different 22:2
49:22 50:1,21 D 10:20,23 11:17 23:13 33:2
counts 16:6 debate 43:8 9:15 27:4 differentiations
15:14,17 course 6:20 7:11 19:16 55:20 52:15 53:24 differently
21:14 13:11 14:7 56:2 54:1 55:8 11:17 12:23
39:11 19:23 31:6,10 decided 5:16 defender 7:8 26:16,18
33:6 44:13 decides 48:8 13:17 14:2 disagree 30:10
33:12 9:20,24 12:4 declines 44:15 17:19 discussed 50:11
12:11 17:8 deem 5:16 24:6 denied 3:12 54:24
38:22 19:1,10 20:15 deemed 4:8,20 depend 6:19 discussion 20:18
43:11 20:16 24:15 5:3 6:6,17 depends 8:15,16 dispute 11:15
45:1 25:2,19 26:8 12:19 deserves 23:22 distinct 36:9
53:11 26:10 27:2 defend 35:20 desire 4:9,17 distinction 23:4
36:18 38:5,18 5:16 6:6,9,22 destabilizing district 13:24
5:2 38:19,22 42:8 7:2,12,13,17 21:6 14:2,8 44:15
essentially 14:15 51:13 54:6,17 formalized 40:1 56:21
41:11 establish 43:7 18:24 24:11,24 fortune 52:12 15:19 16:22
3:7 53:1 establishes factual 17:2,6 forward 11:24 21:25 24:21
ethical 10:15 44:20 45:6,12 four 20:18 29:7 gives 51:7
Everybody 31:9 55:24 frankly 3:25 49:23 50:19
56:10,12 fallacy 40:24 52:20 37:7 49:23
22:20 25:11 family 19:22,24 fully 44:11 56:1 24:25 31:7,9
32:19 Faretta 50:7 functional 39:20 48:19 50:7,9
exercises 16:20 Fifth 9:20 17:15 47:1 52:12
experienced 25:2 44:3,4 G 3:1 35:20 39:7
extending 56:18 finish 38:15 Ginsburg 6:21
extent 48:20 11:15 26:7 13:15,20 27:9 half 7:10
51:25 extreme 25:7 footnote 44:6 30:17 36:8 hand 9:8,10
54:10 F force 19:10 51:22 53:19,21 happen 48:5,10
fact 4:18 13:16 form 49:1 54:5 55:1 happened 14:10
30:6,14 33:9 39:23 9:10 30:7 55:22
13:14 50:10 infect 21:16 40:13 52:21 3:7 53:1
Honor's 56:12 inform 55:25 involved 22:14 judge 29:19
54:10 hypothetical initial 3:14 4:3 35:6,11,11,24 jury 54:8
33:2,2,3,9 5:4 10:25 35:25 39:9,11 Justice 3:3,9 4:6
11:1,20 I 48:10 49:11 issues 20:12 8:17,19,25
14:11 idea 46:19 initiated 10:11 42:25 45:12,18 10:6 11:2,10
24:17 illustration 9:12 15:6,14,17,24 i.e 27:5 12:9,16,25
28:5,14 immediately 16:10,20 21:14 13:8,15,20
30:16,19 14:1,4,10 24:6 J 14:20 15:9,16
34:21 immune 20:3 initiates 7:21 Jackson 3:13,18 15:18 16:1,13
37:9 impeachment 8:16,22 10:7 3:23,24 4:7,22 16:18,21 17:10
53:25 54:3,6 initiating 16:6 4:24 5:2 6:18 17:21,25 18:8
46:4 implies 51:11,16 initiation 6:24 7:14 8:5,23 9:6 18:15,20,21
51:25 important 19:13 7:22,22 8:16 11:12 12:7,10 19:8,12 20:2,6
53:7 19:17 20:14 16:14 12:14,17,24 20:11 21:11,21
27:18 imputed 27:4 intelligent 51:24 21:20 22:15,25 23:16 24:1,23
inadmissible interest 48:9 23:9,11,21 25:5,13,23
53:23 40:12 interference 32:17 33:17 30:1,17 31:6
33:9 intermediate 36:23 39:10,15 32:18,19,23,24
33:22 29:24 55:24 42:13 46:1,23 35:10,24 36:8
incorrectly interrogating 47:8,9,15,15 36:9,17,24
12:4 indigency 11:22 16:7 18:7,14 jail 7:18 14:12 41:1,10,15
27:25 individual's 34:19 Johnson 43:2,3 46:18 47:25
37:1 39:5 introduced 55:7 43:4 48:1,15,17,18
43:10 indulge 41:5 55:8,10 Joint 45:17 49:6,8,17,25
46:12 ineffective 43:18 invoke 39:16 JR 1:15 2:3,8 50:2,15,24,25
19:13,14 15:21 16:2,7 54:22 56:5,12 23:9 38:3,17
53:3 knowledgeable 17:3,14,20 lineup 20:23 45:24
54:5 52:11 18:5,18 19:22 lineups 20:23 Michigan 3:13
55:1,6 known 31:1 19:24 20:1 long 21:14 24:5 11:11 12:9,14
56:11,24 knows 15:10,11 23:19 24:18 32:21 34:8 12:16 20:3
29:19 30:5,14 longer 20:11 middle 15:13
2:5 26:24 Landry 1:17 2:5 32:21 33:4,4 lost 35:12,13 minutes 52:25
27:15,23,25 34:5,11,12,18 Louisiana 1:6 7:25 9:2,10,22
28:22 29:22 34:18,21 35:5 3:5,16 17:7 14:23 15:19
8:3,8,17 32:1,6,15 33:8 36:15 37:13,16 28:6 36:8,24 17:22,25 18:2
17:10 33:14,16 34:3 37:22,23 39:1 38:4 45:8 52:5 18:9 20:9
18:8 34:9,16,22 39:21 41:23 53:11,13 28:25 30:3,7
39:17 35:4,23 36:12 42:9,11,15,19 30:12 31:16
44:8 36:22 37:1,6 44:10,13,13,20 M 44:18 45:3,4
55:19 37:18,24 38:11 44:25 45:2,13 maintaining 47:1 55:21
30:22 39:8,25 40:6,9 47:10,11,21,24 making 29:17 46:14
35:6 41:14 42:2,21 50:5,9 51:2,3 man 24:3 30:22 44:24
41:8 43:10,23 44:1 52:2,2,4,8,14 36:5 misled 45:2
32:14 50:10,20 51:5 lawyered 43:19 manipulation 3:12 10:21
50:16 51:15,22 52:17 43:20 19:15 14:12 53:9
34:21 law 16:11 20:19 layperson 51:24 7:11 17:2 54:14,17
21:7 32:7,8 leads 28:3 19:18 24:8 Moran 9:13,14
10:9 11:3 53:12,14,15 legal 7:7 13:25 53:15 57:3 18:1,8,11
24:4 lawyer 3:21 5:22 14:4 50:13 matters 10:8 26:13 44:22
30:21,24 5:24 6:1,2,12 51:10,12 mean 10:7 24:3 55:19,21,25
6:16 7:17,18 letter 46:10 54:2 28:16 34:23 56:5
35:2 7:19 8:17,19 let's 49:8 51:23 37:8 43:1,6 Moran's 55:22
39:19 8:20 9:16,17 level 17:14 47:13 55:1 morning 3:4
43:19 9:18,19 10:3,4 lightly 20:18 means 17:17 14:11 17:4
48:8 10:10,12 12:20 limited 7:1 54:9 measure 23:22 19:6 31:5,13
13:4,12,16,21 limiting 54:7 mere 39:13 motion 45:16
officers 14:13 overruling 9:6 phrasing 22:19 positive 29:14
19:3 21:19 22:13,15 piece 13:4 46:9 34:17 38:23
okay 5:25 6:23 page 2:2 45:17 28:18 36:1,2 27:6 29:3,8
50:17,18 31:17,24 32:2 54:12 43:6 46:25 practical 11:3
32:18,22,24,25 paperwork 47:1,14 54:11 11:13,23 22:9
once 23:23 32:8 parallel 20:10 points 17:10 practices 12:1
one's 15:11 39:24 40:1 police 4:13 6:8 precinct 19:2
26:10 56:14 25:1 29:6 14:17,25 15:1 presence 21:5
45:11,17 operates 27:24 34:15 54:14 15:6,14,24 present 4:9 7:3
28:1 party 10:9 16:4 17:2,12 19:6 21:15
44:5 30:11 36:15,16 24:5,22 25:16 presenting 22:9
opposite 16:25 56:13 33:24,25 34:11 41:2
overriding Petitioner's 28:3 41:12 42:17 prior 28:24
27:11,20 overrule 8:5 phrased 22:20 56:20 pro 49:22
30:18,21 20:8 22:5 22:21,23 positions 42:1 probably 37:6
12:3 13:7 41:2 51:8 R 3:1 reiterated 9:25 requested 5:2
56:22 raising 14:18 rejecting 12:7 11:6,10 12:10
19:2 protections 3:13 rapid-fire 52:5 relationship 36:15
20:17 7:24 25:3 rationale 4:7 10:2 56:8 requesting
44:18 provide 36:25 32:14,16 49:12 reliability 9:22 43:21 47:21
54:10 provided 28:25 49:15 relied 44:4 49:21
22:9 provides 22:6 23:7 relinquish 25:14 40:7 47:5
35:3 psychiatric read 13:3 43:14 24:2 require 11:19
20:25 51:11 rely 5:4,12 6:7 37:15 39:23
14:1 realistic 24:9 22:24 23:1,19 30:19
28:9 53:18 54:9 12:3,5 26:14 relying 17:11 reserve 26:20
50:4,13 purposes 5:5 31:22 37:24 remain 40:10 resolved 17:7
52:5 12:23 53:17 46:25 47:7 remaining 52:25 respect 9:7
put 50:25 56:18 reason 12:6 32:8 reporter 36:18 55:20
puzzling 30:17 49:10 14:9 30:10
49:24 2:7 53:1 representing 22:1 26:25
4:24 5:1,8 7:4 receive 50:1 represents Respondent's
25:20,20 10:20 11:23 recognized request 4:4 response 38:1
46:23 12:21 22:3,21 24:15 15:11 27:4,8 46:20 55:1
48:11 24:8 25:5 31:2 record 13:23 28:8,9,13,16 responses 23:14
31:3 36:13 36:19 50:5 28:23 29:13,14 result 9:5 33:23
42:2 43:4 45:7 reexamined 35:16,25 38:1 37:13
55:12 questioning refer 7:6 38:14 39:1,15 right 3:20 5:3,6
questions 23:14 refers 44:6 40:13,14,16,19 6:10,12 7:23
quick 9:24 reflects 13:9 41:12,16,18 12:12,20 13:20
20:10,14 24:11 refute 55:8 43:14 44:12 16:23 18:5,12
9:3,11 51:3 53:13,20 55:13 49:5 51:16 21:3 22:19,23
18:6 regarding 34:12 52:4 54:15,16 23:1,17,18,19
24:13 47:22 49:25 17:12 24:12 standing 27:20
self-incrimina... 39:23 42:13,25 43:25 56:1
26:17 S 18:6 48:11 stands 36:5,6
29:5,9 S 2:1 3:1 self-reinforcing six 14:15 24:19 start 50:6,8
30:2,4,9 sake 48:16 55:15 31:21 State 7:9 19:1
33:7,25 sanctioned sense 4:1 14:7 Sixth 3:12,20 23:5 30:20
37:20,21 55:21 39:24 54:21 4:1 8:13 9:15 35:18 38:18,19
40:12 satisfy 41:24 sensible 54:21 9:21 10:1,22 38:21 42:8,17
48:22,24 saying 4:16 6:11 September 17:2 20:20,24 21:3 43:15,16,25
50:21 6:12 8:11 17:13 21:10 22:19 44:2 49:20,21
10:12 11:5 serious 22:4 23:16 30:9,9 50:6 52:13,16
52:14,19 16:6 21:11,12 24:12 30:13 39:5,8 53:12
53:25 22:23 37:13 served 39:20 51:19 56:4,6,9 statement 34:12
38:1,3,9 40:23 service 14:2,2 56:21 35:8
29:4,6,9 says 5:22 7:13 setting 18:7 solely 17:11 45:18 53:24
7:17,19 14:23 43:15 solve 11:2,12 States 1:1,12
40:12 15:1,5,14,20 seven 24:19 29:6 solved 12:3 7:10 10:24
52:16,18 15:22 16:5,14 29:10 somebody 30:21 11:3,18,20,24
6:10 31:19,23 32:3 showed 36:19 31:18 38:15 Stevens 18:15
15:9,18 32:21 34:11 showing 11:21 sort 29:13,13 18:20,21 19:8
36:10 40:18 11:22 22:8 43:15 19:12 34:19,25
25:13,23 43:2,2,4,18,20 shown 20:8 Souter 22:12 36:17,24 37:2
41:10 48:11 54:18 shows 7:10 23:16 30:1 37:11 40:15,20
48:17 56:10,13,16 side 10:9 26:3 35:10,24 36:9 41:1 50:2,15
56:24 Scalia 4:6 5:6,13 47:14 38:2,17,25 50:24
10:16 32:19,24 37:24 silent 36:6 37:12 speak 21:15 10:13
14:20 38:8,13 43:12 40:10 51:14 31:17,22 48:4 strike 31:18
22:7,9 43:24 51:10 silently 3:13 48:9 strong 20:15
54:25 55:6 similar 44:4 special 20:8 struck 53:21
25:20,21 Scalia's 25:5 simply 4:7,11,18 spoken 22:13 subjected 24:14
38:19 scenario 13:1 11:5,5 21:13 squad 14:14 submit 12:4
43:7 43:16 23:1,5,12 36:6 24:19 26:18
46:23 second 11:25 42:10,24 46:20 stage 16:2 18:14 submitted 57:1
51:11 26:15 32:8 sir 32:1 40:9 23:25 57:3
54:16,16 54:11 sister 9:17 stages 18:14 subsequently
21:16 35:7 7:14 10:14 standard 13:3 49:23 53:8
19:6 49:19 theory 39:5 told 5:23 13:16 52:11
talk 4:14 5:22 27:22 49:22 17:13 28:16,21 23:8 31:11
38:2 16:6 24:4 think 6:4,14,15 52:1 53:9,10 25:5 40:15
45:4
37:22 7:8 8:2,6 9:2,8 top 39:19 41:19
44:23 47:1,12 9:10,12 10:11 totally 25:15 United 1:1,12
36:3 46:10,22 20:14,16 21:12 44:15 45:13
49:8 tell 17:19 28:15 24:10,10 26:6 53:8,23 v 1:5 3:4,13
30:14 33:20,24 32:15,16,19,20 45:25 20:3 27:4
46:4 27:22 56:2 35:23 36:22 30:23 41:2 Verrilli 1:15 2:3
tells 14:4 34:13 37:18 38:11 45:3 51:6 2:8 3:6,7,9
17:8 Tennessee 36:5 41:16 42:2,19 trying 9:18 16:1 6:14,21,25
25:2 41:21 44:1,17,21 32:17 33:1 7:21 8:2,15,18
38:4 42:8 terms 22:21,23 45:6 46:6,7 51:22 8:21 9:4 10:19
53:14 testified 18:25 48:20 49:6,16 Tuesday 1:9 11:9,14 12:13
31:22 30:15,23 31:4 55:19 turned 36:14,16 13:18,22 15:6
31:11 45:13,14 thinking 46:24 47:23 15:16,24 16:9
54:1 thought 4:6 20:7 23:10,14 18:15,19,23
testimony 17:5,8 33:4,8 37:25 41:17 42:1 20:14 21:19,23
34:24 38:5,8 41:11 53:21 55:14,16 22:4,12 23:15
26:21,22 36:20 26:21 32:3 53:19,20 54:4
49:12 39:7 41:22 44:23 uncounseled 56:25
20:23,25 versed 39:22
19:5
56:23,24 today 54:13 27:19 37:14 version 44:25
14:23 15:19 Y
15:4,9,15 1:15
34:18
18:9
16:16 17:18 1
19:3
45:19 23:7 24:3
17:3,13
1:13 3:2
37:11,14
53:25
13 1:9
33:6 we're 7:13 10:15 2
36:3 46:10 2009 1:9
7:15,18 51:18
12:2 withholding 5
15:3 56:3 53 2:9
31:16
37:4,17 world 48:7
42:4 wouldn't 10:11
46:19
21:11 72 30:22
53:9 33:24 72-hour 24:17
written 24:21 30:16,18,25
46:14
33:6
51:25
50:23 47:16
