IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-1090
JORDAN BEATY, ET AL.; :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
and
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 08-539
ROBERT SIMON, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, April 20, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JONATHAN S. FRANKLIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Petitioners.
DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Petitioners.
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JONATHAN S. FRANKLIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 4
DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioners 16
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 23
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JONATHAN S. FRANKLIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 07-1090, Republic of
Iraq v. Beaty, and the consolidated case.
Mr. Franklin.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN S. FRANKLIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FRANKLIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Acting with express statutory authority and
in furtherance of important foreign policies following
the fall of the Saddam Hussein regime, the President
made inapplicable with respect to Iraq all provisions of
law that had applied to countries that sponsored
terrorism.
Under the plain language of the statute,
those provisions included former section 1605(a)(7),
which was a provision of law that applied only to such
countries. Because section 1605(a)(7) was made
inapplicable as to Iraq effective on the President's
determination, it cannot now serve as the applicable
statutory basis for abrogation of Iraq's foreign
sovereign immunity and therefore subject matter
jurisdiction in this case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Franklin, even if you
are right about that, the legislation was an emergency
measure with a sunset. It was revived for 1 year, but
then no more. So, didn't this suspension of Iraq's lack
of immunity -- didn't the immunity come back? Didn't
the bar to immunity come back again once the emergency
law sunsetted?
MR. FRANKLIN: No, Your Honor. The language
of the sunset provision to which you are referring
states only that the authorities contained in the
section would expire. That means the authorities to the
President given to him to act. Congress did not say
that the effect of what the President had done would be
nullified once his authority to act had expired.
And it's important to recognize that the
President not only made inapplicable provisions of law
addressed to state nations that had sponsored terrorism,
but he also suspended the Iraq Sanctions Act under the
same authority. The Iraq Sanctions Act has never been
repealed.
So, if it were correct that the -- that the
-- everything that the President had done became
nullified upon the expiration of his authority to act,
then the Iraq Sanctions Act would not only currently be
in effect today, but would have been in effect since
September 30th, 2005. And if there's -- that is not
what Congress intended. The Iraq Sanctions Act has a
huge panoply of sanctions, both dependent on and
independent of the legislative determination of Iraq as
a state sponsor of terrorism.
But if there's any question about this, when
Congress acted again, the same Congress acted in 2003 to
extend the expiration date, Congress -- the -- when that
Congress acted, the legislative history said quite
expressly that the extension was not necessary to extend
what the President had already done, because that had
already happened and that was permanent. But it was
necessary according to Congress for other reasons.
So both because of the plain language of the
sunset provision and because of what Congress
subsequently did in 2003 to extend it, as well as the
interpretation of the United States on this point, the
President's actions didn't sunset. It was emergency
legislation to be sure, but the emergency was to give
the President the authorities. We were at war at that
time and our foreign policy was changing 180 degrees
almost overnight away from penalizing the government of
Saddam Hussein as a state sponsor of terrorism, as an
outlaw regime, and immediately towards helping the
people of Iraq.
And Congress gave the President the broad
catch-all authority to, if he deemed it appropriate, to
relieve the people of Iraq from all, not just some, of
the very onerous restrictions and disabilities that had
applied to them as a result of the prior regime's
support for terrorism.
The President did this in exercise of his
foreign policy judgment in order that the people of Iraq
could better rebuild their country and establish a new
democratic government that would in fact prove to become
one of the United States' most trusted allies in a
region that has not always had very many of them.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what do you make of
the fact that in -- in 2008 Congress said that that was
never its intention, it was never its intention for the
President to have the authority to -- to do this?
MR. FRANKLIN: Two things, Justice Alito:
The -- the first point is that this was not the Congress
that acted in 2003. This was a subsequent Congress.
And that statement occurred almost 5 years after the
legislation had been enacted and almost 3 years after
the President's authority to act had expired. As such,
that statement is nothing more than subsequent
legislative history that cannot be determinative in
deciding whether the President acted validly in 2003.
That determination should be judged according to the
statute that was in front of the President when he
acted.
But if there's any question at all in the
Court's mind about the application of that provision,
the President waived it. He waived its application as
to Iraq. It is important to remember that the President
would not sign the version of the NDAA that just had
that provision in it. He vetoed the bill. He vetoed it
only because of its effect that it might have on Iraq,
and he would not sign a replacement until he was given
the authority to waive any and all of the provisions of
section 1083 to the extent they may affect Iraq. So if
that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Including -- including
the provision that repealed 1605(a)(7). So that would
be revived?
MR. FRANKLIN: Well, we don't agree with
that, Your Honor, because we think that the scope of the
waiver would have been to make inapplicable or to waive
application of extant provisions of law to the extent
they might affect Iraq. The President wasn't given the
additional power to reenact statutes, to put a repealed
statute back on the book. The waiver was just like the
EWSAA waiver, where the President was authorized to
waiver with respect to Iraq existing privileges --
existing provisions of law. But again, to the extent
there is any question about that, Title 1, U.S.C.
section 108 answers that conclusively. That section
provides that even if Congress itself had repealed
section 1083 in its entirety, that would not bring
section 1605(a)(7), which had been repealed by that
section. And that is the plain language of 1 U.S.C.
108. Obviously the President by exercising a blanket
waiver authority can't have a better or more effective
ability to bring back into existence expired statutes
than Congress itself could have done.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Because technically it's
just suspension, it's not -- it's not reenactment. I
suppose you could say a suspension is a partial revival,
but the provision doesn't exactly fit, does it?
MR. FRANKLIN: Well, we are talking here
about a waiver applied to a repeal. I think the
temporal point here is that the repeal happened
effective upon the President's signature of the NDAA, on
January 20, 2008. That was already done. The repeal
happened. At that point, section 1605(a)(7) no longer
existed. It was not in the U.S. Code.
The President was authorized then
subsequently to waive existing provisions of law. And
here I think that this -- to allow the President to
re-enact statutes according to a waiver authority is
contrary I think to 1 U.S.C. section 108, but also
common sense as well. He was -- he was allowed to --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I agree.
MR. FRANKLIN: Okay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we have any other
instance in which a jurisdictional provision is
withdrawn applicable to pending cases without Congress
having mentioned the jurisdictional provision at all?
MR. FRANKLIN: Well, I think the closest
analogy that I can give you, Your Honor, is in fact the
precise circumstances we have here, and that is the
doctrine of foreign sovereign immunity. Prior to the
Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976, determinations
upon foreign sovereign immunity were made by the
executive, and they had the effect, as the Court stated
in the Republic of Mexico case and the Ex parte Peru, of
requiring the courts to, quote, "surrender their
jurisdiction," even if it had previously attached.
So here we have the precise situation that
had always happened. It had always been this way prior
to the FSIA. The President had always been able to make
determinations on foreign sovereign immunity that would
have the immediate effect of divesting the courts of
their ability to hear cases. Now, there were of course
jurisdictional provisions at the time that conferred
jurisdiction over foreign sovereigns, and the Court had
no trouble -- and this was 150 years of practice, dating
from Chief Justice Marshall's first recognition of
sovereign immunity up until the Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act.
So this is actually not any different really
than what had occurred before. We have also cited
numerous or several examples of jurisdictional statute
that do depend on executive determination. So there's
really nothing particularly unusual about that as well.
I would like to turn at this point, if I
might, just briefly to our alternative argument in case
the Court might find it relevant. This is an
alternative argument. It's not one that the Court needs
to reach, but it is certainly another basis for reaching
the same result in this case. And that is the simple
fact in 2008 section 1605(a)(7), regardless of what the
President had done previously to it, was repealed. And
it was not just repealed, but it was repealed with a
simultaneous bestowal of a replacement jurisdictional
provision that encompassed every single pending claim
that was then pending at the time.
So this is the classic example of a
jurisdictional repeal that applies to all cases.
Congress didn't just repeal a statute, but it gave
another provision that encompassed every pending claim
and allowed every single pending plaintiff to be able to
refile their cases.
Now, to be sure, the plaintiffs against Iraq
were not able to exercise their ability under the new
statute -- that is 28 U.S.C. section 1605(A) -- but the
only reason they were not allowed to do that was the
President's waiver, and the President's waiver was
expressly made applicable both to pending cases and to
preexisting claims.
So, for both of those reasons the
alternative ground is also one that warrants reversal.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Were there judgments,
outstanding judgments that had become final -- judgments
outstanding against Iraq, that were not challenged on
appeal?
MR. FRANKLIN: There is at least two that I
am aware of, two default judgments. They are cited in
our brief. And the effective ability of those default
judgment creditors, as it were, to execute on those
judgments would depend on the application of the new
statutes that Congress enacted about judgment execution.
Those are not at issue in this case. But the answer to
your question is yes, there were at least two judgments
that I am aware of that were default judgments where
Iraq had not appeared and did not contest the case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you're not claiming
that those could be reopened?
MR. FRANKLIN: We are not claiming in this
-- in this proceeding they could be reopened. We're
actually not claiming -- we haven't claimed in any
proceeding that they can be reopened. But there is a
serious question as to whether or not the plaintiffs
would be able to execute in the United States on those
judgments. Also, they are default judgments and so they
are subject to all of the usual rules to the extent
about reopening default judgments, not on the grounds of
this sovereign immunity issue, but on the normal grounds
of reopening of default judgments. So, to the extent
there are such bases, I don't want to give up on those.
But we are not -- we are not making -- this
argument's immunity argument today applies to these
pending cases and the ability of courts to enter
judgments, not to existing default judgments, but the
execution on those judgments may well be affected by the
arguments we are making today.
In the final analysis, I think this -- this
is a case that turns ultimately on the President's
exercise of his foreign affairs powers as delegated to
him by Congress. The Court has traditionally given the
executive a fair amount of leeway and deference in this
field. In this case I think that's particularly
appropriate, given that these foreign policies are among
the most significant facing the United States today.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I take it your
argument would be no different if this involved some
other area. It doesn't depend upon the deference under
the foreign affairs --
MR. FRANKLIN: No, it doesn't depend on it,
but I do think it's important to recognize that the
President was acting in that -- in that field when he
made these determinations, and to also recognize that
these determinations -- the foreign policy of the United
States has not changed. It is still towards supporting
the people of Iraq and it's supporting the ability of
the people to rebuild their country and also their new
democratic government, and all of those policies would
be thwarted or seriously disrupted if the Court were to
hold that Iraq's sovereign immunity has been abrogated
in these cases.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I also gather that the
ability of the President or the United States to seek
some compensation from Iraq through diplomatic channels
on behalf of these plaintiffs is not affected at all by
this outcome, right?
MR. FRANKLIN: Absolutely not, Your Honor.
That is the way that these kinds of claims have always
been addressed in the past and these are the way that
these kinds of claims, particularly between friendly
allies, ought to be addressed. And I would think that
in this instance the Court in its Republic of Peru case
probably said it best and I'm just going to quote from
the last page of our brief. The Court said: "Our
national interest will be better served in such cases if
the wrongs to suitors involving our relations with a
friendly foreign power are righted through diplomatic
negotiations rather than the compulsions of judicial
proceedings."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That is before the
Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, right?
MR. FRANKLIN: That is true, but this case
involve the doctrine of foreign immunity and it embodies
the same concerns of reciprocity that were at issue
then.
If I might, I would like to reserve the
remainder of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Hallward-Driemeier.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
EWSAA section 1503 authorized the President
to make inapplicable with respect to Iraq any provision
of law that applies to countries that have sponsored
terrorism. The terrorism exception to the Foreign
Sovereign Immunities Act falls squarely within the plain
language of that authority. But if there were any
question about that, certainly the President's exercise
of his authority under that statute would be entitled to
deference.
Even if one were to add the atextual
additional limitation that the Acree court majority
tried to, that it only encompassed statutes that would
stand as an obstacle to the funding of the Iraqi regime
in the aftermath of removing the Hussein government,
still the President's memorandum to Congress makes clear
his determination that the threat of billions of dollars
of judgments against Iraq and the seizure or freezing of
their assets by attachment constituted an immediate
threat to the foreign policy interests of the United
States and our critical foreign policy goals in Iraq.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought we were just
told that because there -- of the limitations on
enforcement, the -- there would be no realistic threat
to the Iraqi assets in the United States because the
judgment creditor wouldn't have access to them.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That is because of
the authorities that the President exercised under the
second proviso of 1503. There are exceptions to the
immunity of foreign states with respect to attachment.
There is one that specifically applies to countries that
have been designated as having sponsored terrorism, and
that exception as well was rendered inapplicable to Iraq
pursuant to this same authority.
And so, again, it is essential to the
government's foreign policy interests in Iraq that these
judgments, the ability to attach Iraqi assets -- in
fact, at the time, in the summer of 2003, there were
plaintiffs that were running around trying to attach the
very assets, the very bundles of cash, that the United
States Government was attempting to shift to Iraq in
order to pay immediate needs in -- in Iraq in the
immediate aftermath of having removed the Hussein
regime. These critical foreign policy goals would have
been frustrated had the President not been able to make
our Foreign Sovereign Immunity Law conform to our
foreign policy.
And, of course, the Court in Altmann
recognized that foreign sovereign immunity is an
expression of our present foreign policy interests.
That has always been the case. And although Congress
can establish the general rule, and did in the FSIA,
section 1503 recognizes that there had perhaps never
been as dramatic a transformation in our foreign policy
with respect to a country as happened in the spring of
2003, whereas there had been a whole panoply of
sanctions and other provisions of law that had applied
to Iraq because of the Hussein regime's sponsorship of
terrorism. On a -- on a dime, our policy shifted
180 degrees, and we became intensely concerned in the
success of the new Iraqi regime.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is -- is all of this -- I
won't say academic, but it ultimately doesn't matter if
the D.C. Circuit was right in the Acree case in saying,
well, 1605(a)(7) allowed suit against Iraq, but there's
no cause of action.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: No, Your Honor.
The judgment in the Acree case dismissing the claims for
failure to state a claim was because counsel in that
particular suit was unable to identify a source of law
for their claim. The D.C. Circuit has correctly held
that Federal law did not at that time provide a cause of
action under 1605(a)(7), and counsel was unable when
pressed at oral argument to identify the source of law.
But numerous district court judgments exist
where the courts have upheld the availability of
transitory tort under the law of the forum State, under
the law of the residence of the plaintiff, or under the
law of the -- of the place where the wrong occurred to
provide a cause of action. So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where the wrong occurred
would have been Iraq.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That's right. And
-- and, of course, the courts have to apply a choice of
law analysis. As I said, a number of these judgments
apply the law of the forum State where the plaintiff
resided. The United States has expressed its view that
there are constitutional limitations on the ability of a
State to project its substantive law to a tort that
occurs abroad, but -- but those issues have not yet I
don't think have been resolved by the D.C. Circuit, at
least.
So plaintiffs have successfully obtained
judgments in suits brought under 1605(a)(7). And there
were billions of dollars in claims that were asserted
against Iraq. And -- and, as I said, plaintiffs were
actively going and trying to seek the actual money that
the United States was trying to transfer over to Iraq to
pay immediate costs of the reconstruction.
But this does not mean -- and I think
Justice Scalia's question was critical here. It does
not mean that the plaintiffs are left without any
remedy, rather that these plaintiffs have been put on
the same footing as any other claimant against a foreign
state that is not on the very small list of designated
state sponsors of terrorism. Their claims are subject
to state-to-state diplomatic resolution. And, in fact,
there have been discussions -- there are ongoing
discussions -- to establish a framework for resolving
the claims against the Hussein regime.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wouldn't any such
settlement have to take into account that Iraqi -- the
Iraqi people themselves were the most numerous and
probably the worst victims of the terror?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, Your Honor, I
think that -- that that is one consideration. The
United Nations has established a mechanism for funding
many of the victims of the Hussein regime. And -- and
-- but the United States would have the obligation to
represent the interests of the United States citizens
that were injured. But, as -- as Your Honor's question
points out, there are a lot of considerations that go
into the diplomatic or state-to-state resolution of the
claim beyond those that would be available to a court to
consider in just adjudicating the particular plaintiff's
claims. And that is why these have historically been
reserved for diplomatic resolution. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you don't
doubt, in absence of the waiver, that this is a claim
that could proceed under the Foreign Sovereign Immunity
Act?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: No. No, I don't.
And -- and Congress has established as a means to deter
further acts of terrorism by states that have been so
designated --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that claim could
--
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: -- the abrogation
of immunity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Putting aside the
waiver, that claim could proceed despite the fact that
there has been a change in the governing authority in
Iraq?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That's right. The
-- the general rule that Congress established in
1605(a)(7) was that the jurisdiction of the courts would
continue for any claim that arose from acts committed
while the state was designated. But the authority that
the President was given in 1503 was to render those
statutes immediately inapplicable to Iraq. And, of
course, it would not be inapplicable to Iraq to hold
that today a court would have jurisdiction over Iraq and
authority to enter a judgment against Iraq pursuant to
1605(a)(7). It would be application of that statute.
So the only way that one can give full
effect to the plain language of the statute, "make
inapplicable," is to say that as soon as the President
exercised that authority, 1605(a)(7) became
inapplicable, unavailable, as the basis of exercising
jurisdiction over Iraq.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said that there
should be deference to what the executive did because of
his role in foreign affairs. But in the Foreign
Sovereign Immunities Act, Congress deliberately withdrew
what had been the executive's traditional authority and
said: President, no more; we are going to set rules of
how sovereign immunity will operate.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That is true. And
in 1503, Congress restored to the President in a sense a
very small portion of the authority he had previously
exercised before the FSIA's adoption. 1605(a)(7) on its
own terms turns on determinations by the executive.
It's a statute that can be turned on and turned off by
designating or de-designating a country. It has a
particular temporal consequence, the rule that -- that
the Chief Justice alluded to.
In 1503, the Congress gave the President a
different authority to turn that statute off, the
authority to make it inapplicable only with respect to
one country, Iraq, and in the context of the most
dramatic transformation of foreign relations that --
that could transpire.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Goldstein.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The Court will want to have available to it
the blue brief for the Petitioners and Joint Appendix
Volume 2, which together reproduce the statutes that are
relevant to this case. And I do want to talk about the
text of the statutes.
And the point that I'm going to make from
the text of the statutes is that the Solicitor General
just correctly described to you what it was that
Congress was trying to accomplish when he said that the
structure of 1605 -- 1605(a)(7) of the Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act says if you are the victim of torture by
a nation designated as a state sponsor of terror and
that designation changes so that you are no longer on
that list, then you still have a cause of action under
the FSIA. The fact that the country changes its ways
and gets de-designated doesn't change that result.
Now, what the Solicitor General says is that
Congress changed that rule in 1503 and that's the debate
in this case: Did Congress when it said that the
President may make inapplicable various statutes which
they say include section 1605(a)(7), did it change the
basic rule about what the effect of a designation and a
rescindment of a designation was, or instead was it
giving the President a special power to remove the
designation?
If all it was doing was giving the power to
the President to immediately rescind Iraq's designation
as a terrorist state, if it was a more modest power
rather than effectively writing into 1605(a)(7) "except
for Iraq," if it's just a power about rescindment, then
the rule of 1605(a)(7) that the Solicitor General just
cited to you, that changing somebody's designation
doesn't affect their liability, would apply here. So
just put it in terms --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why would -- why would
Congress have wanted to make that distinction?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Let's -- let me take you to
the reason, and that is in Joint Appendix Volume 2.
Section 620A of the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act is
reproduced at 344. And this is the way that a
country -- that a statute relating to torture and
terrorism is made applicable and made inapplicable under
ordinary processes to a nation.
So to explain it to you, right now Syria,
Iran, and Sudan, this statute applies to them. It is
inapplicable to Libya and North Korea. And the reason
is that Libya and North Korea were originally designated
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a long section. Which
part of the section --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I am going to take you
straight to the text. I am giving you the overview
right now.
So, they were de-designated. It works in
two parts. A is the prohibition. This is how you get
designated. Prohibition. The United States shall
not --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. Where are you?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sorry. I'm at 344, and I'm
in A, prohibition.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay, this is how you get
designated: "Prohibition. The United States shall not
provide any assistance under this Act" -- this is our
principal foreign aid statute -- "the Agricultural
Trade, Development, and Assistance Act of 1954, the
Peace Corps Act, or the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945
to any country" -- and here's how you get designated "if
the Secretary of State determines that the government of
that country has repeatedly provided support for acts of
international terrorism." So we've designated Syria,
Iran, Sudan.
Now, that designation can be rescinded and
that's usually what happens. But there are important
restrictions on the rescindment that gave rise to the
enactment of section 1503, and they are in C, recision.
The Congress limited the President's ability to
immediately rescind the designation: "A determination
made by the Secretary of State under subsection A not --
may not be rescinded unless" -- and there are two rules.
It can happen in one of two ways. The first is you get
a new government: "A, there has been a fundamental
change in the leadership and policies of the government
concerned." Or number 2, the old government changes its
ways. That's 2A: "The government concerned has not
provided any support for international terrorism during
the preceding 6-month period.
So here's the dilemma and, Justice Souter,
this is the complete explanation for why Congress gave
the President the power it did in section 1503.
Remember when the EWSAA is enacted there is a whole
discussion in the first 30 minutes about the new regime.
There was no new regime. There was a discussion about
how the Saddam Hussein regime had been toppled. No, it
hadn't.
When the EWSAA had been enacted -- was
enacted, Baghdad had fallen seven days earlier. There
was no new Iraqi government. We would not recognize an
Iraqi government until June of 2004.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there may have
not been a new one, but there certainly was not the old
one either.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. But, Mr. Chief
Justice, I'm making a very particular point, and that is
that the President lacked the power under this statute
that I have just cited to you, 620A -- and it is also
the statute that is cited in 1503 -- the President
lacked the power at that time because there was no new
government and there wasn't a change in policy in the
old government.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But there's nothing better
settled -- well, perhaps that's broad. It is very well
settled that the President is the one to determine who
is the lawful and legitimate government that he would
deal with.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's all that was
happening here. And it's not just a question of one
against the other. It's a question of what government
has survived.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Exactly right --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that is under -- and
under the law something that has always been committed
to the very large discretion of the President.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I couldn't agree with you
more, Justice Kennedy. And here's the relevant point.
In the spring of 2003 when Congress enacted this
statute, we had not recognized a new Iraqi government.
We did that in June of 2004. So my point is, and I
think this is very clear from the history, Congress
enacted section 1503 of the EWSAA because the President
was powerless under the existing state of the law to
rescind Iraq's designation as a terrorist state. That's
what --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it was -- the text of
it was not limited to rescinding that designation. I
mean, that's the problem, it seems to me.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Well, let's go to the
text, if we could. And that is in the blue brief. It's
in the appendix to the blue brief. And it's at 4A. And
it's the second proviso, of course, and it appears seven
lines down.
"Provided further, that the President may
make inapplicable" -- that's the language that we are
going to focus on, Justice Souter -- "make inapplicable
with respect to Iraq" -- and then it identifies the
statute -- "section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act
of 1961 or any provision of law that applies to
countries that have supported terrorism."
Now, we are putting aside the debate of
whether section 1605(a)(7) is such a law. We are
assuming it is and you say it, Justice Souter, but he is
given the power to make inapplicable section 1605(a)(7).
He isn't just given the power to rescind the
designation.
And the question just -- the term "make
inapplicable" doesn't appear in this context anywhere
else in the U.S. Code. We have to figure out what it
means. And the way that laws that apply to countries
that have supported terrorism apply or are rendered
inapplicable, there is a method in the U.S. Code for how
they are made applicable and inapplicable.
So, to return to my examples. If you were
to ask the United States or Mr. Franklin -- so this
statutory scheme of laws -- sanctions that apply to
nations that support terrorism applies to Syria, to
Iran, it applies to Sudan. It is inapplicable to Libya,
North Korea, Guinea-Bissau, Britain, France. How is it
that they apply to some and not others? It's through
designation. That's the process for taking something
that applies and make it inapplicable. And I can give
you a lot of other --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this statute
specifically short-circuits that process. It says the
President may at once make inapplicable. The very
purpose of it is that the normal process is going to
take time, and therefore it's being replaced with an
emergency measure that becomes effective immediately.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, the de-designation
becomes effective immediately. What -- the distinction
that I am drawing is that there is a strong version of
the words "make inapplicable," and there is a more
modest version of the words "make inapplicable."
Iraq and the United States say that when he
made it inapplicable he in effect essentially wrote it
out of the U.S. Code or wrote in the exception that says
"except for Iraq." We say that "make inapplicable" in
this context is a term of art that deals with
designation and rescindment. And that process is all
that Congress was trying to do, was to allow the
President to immediately --
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right. Let's -- let's
assume --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- for the sake of argument
that the reasons for -- otherwise the reasons for and
against the point you've just made are evenly balanced.
We are on the fence. Don't we resolve this -- shouldn't
we resolve this in favor of the President's position,
simply because in the absence of the statutes that we're
talking about, starting with the Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act, the President would have had under the
foreign policy power of Presidents the authority to stop
suits like this dead in the water simply by taking the
position that that should be the result? So that if in
doubt, shouldn't we construe these statutes consistently
with the traditional foreign policy authority of the
President, in which case we get off the fence and we go
in the way of the Petitioners rather than your way?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I would say, no, because
that regime, as was indicated in the first 30 minutes,
has been profoundly changed by the enactment of the
FSIA. We adopted a different --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it's been profoundly
changed if we accept your argument. I mean, at the
moment the question is whether it has been profoundly
changed or not. We've got a statutory mess. And in a
case in which the statutes are seemingly subject to --
to -- to arguments either way, why don't we go with
tradition?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Well, I do want to
come to whether we are in equipoise in just a second. I
do think the fact that Congress changed the model so
that we don't use, in effect, the Tape Memorandum model.
Second, remember, Justice Souter, that this
isn't a return to that model. What used to happen
before the FSIA is the President would come into court
and say I think that this nation has immunity and the
court would decide on the basis of that case by case.
But it was the President making the determination, case
by case. This is something unknown. This is very
different, if I could just explain how on their --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but the President,
quite apart from the immunity designation, the President
had the authority to compromise suits.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, fine, and if that is
espousal power continues to exist, then the President
can attempt to exercise it.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I don't know whether it
continues to exist or not for the sake of this argument,
and I'm not -- I'm not making that point for the sake of
this argument. I'm simply saying that if it is
otherwise unclear, given that that power was
traditionally enjoyed by the President, why do we not
construe the -- or resolve the equipoise if it gets to
that point, in the President's favor rather than your
favor?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. So the -- two
reasons, the first is this is not an attempt at
espousal, unlike Dames & Moore and cases like that.
Remember the President hasn't set up some sort of
mechanism for resolving these claims. He is simply
saying that they are --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, he hasn't set it up
because he thinks he has got the authority under this
statute or had the authority under this statute.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Souter, it wouldn't
work like that. If the President were engaging in an
act of espousal then he would have set up some mechanism
for resolving the claims.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Oh, I -- I quite agree with
that.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: So can I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So I suppose the first step
in that direction is to stop the suit that's going on
now.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, the President
purported to do that nine -- excuse me, five or six
years ago and if he were going to set up a mechanism, I
think he would have.
But can I just then just come to the premise
of whether we are --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why -- why shouldn't
we treat this -- yes, the Foreign Sovereign Immunities
Act said Congress is setting the rules. But why doesn't
this emergency measure effectively restore to the
President under these special circumstances the power
that he once had? Congress ceding back to the
President back to the President for the purposes of
dealing with Iraq, the authority -- the control
authority he once had?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. So let's -- if I
could accept the premise that -- and not try to combat
the premise of what we would do in the case of
equipoise, let me turn to the question of what statute
really means and why we shouldn't be in equipoise. The
Court generally has not assumed that emergency
appropriations measures issues, particular their
provisos, changed the jurisdiction of the Federal
courts, much less give the President the power to change
the jurisdiction of the Federal courts. And it has in
related context taken language like "any provision" and
said well, we are looking for a clear statement of law
by Congress to make sure it has confronted this
situation.
When it attempts to -- when the argument on
the other side is that the Congress has passed a law
that shifts the balance of power between Congress and
the legislature and the executive in cases like
Atascadero, in cases like Raygor, Will, these are all
cases that had said statutes that said "any," and the
Court said well, because this a -- a relatively strange
thing to provide in the proviso to an appropriations
measure, for example, we would ask that there be a clear
statement. So that would be one reason that we are not
in equipoise.
JUSTICE ALITO: But as a practical matter,
isn't this closely associated with appropriations and
with foreign aid? The issue is billions of dollars were
going to be needed to reconstruct Iraq in -- in the wake
of the war and the money could be provided directly by
the United States through foreign assistance, which is
part of the thrust of -- of this provision, certainly.
And the argument is that this is closely related to it,
because it freed up other money that would be used for
reconstruction. So why is there anything odd about this
being in an appropriations provision?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Because this -- well,
because what Congress was doing was confronting an
emergency. There is not a breath, in either the
President's transmittal of the statute, the legislative
history of the statute, or anything else that says that
Congress was dealing with the sort of medium to
long-term health of the Iraqi population or the Iraqi
government or the Iraqi economy. It didn't -- one thing
you would have expected if that was Congress's intent is
that Congress would have dealt with Iraq's debts, Saddam
Hussein's debts, and would you also suspect that this
wouldn't sunset, which is the eighth proviso that hasn't
been discussed never much.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why does it say then
any other provision of law? You know, Congress could
have explained its more narrow purpose in a few words.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And I mean, just to add to
that --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It said under 620A of
Foreign Assistance or any other provision of law.
Clearly they are going beyond, it seems to me, the --
the premise which your argument rests on, the argument
that you've just made.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Oh, Justice Souter, I don't
think that that -- let me, if I could take the
two points in turn. In cases like Atascadero, Will,
Raygor, it's the same language; it's "any." And the
Court has said we require a plain statement when
Congress is going to do something that would change the
balance in the relationship between the branches of the
government or between the Federal and State governments.
And Justice Souter, we don't deny it goes
beyond section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act; it
goes to other things that involve aid to the Iraqi
government. What it doesn't do is reach pending --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. Fine. But there is
no textual basis for drawing the line once you get
beyond 620A at the point you want to draw it.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I actually do disagree and
believe you can logically look at the statute -- in the
sense that the word "any" means "every," that is true.
But if you look at what Congress was trying to
accomplish, it was much more focused on questions of the
immediate economic impact of the need to begin
reconstruction in Iraq right away.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Goldstein, could I ask
this question? You are reading into it the exception,
of the words "any other provision of law." And I can
understand your argument one of two ways, and I want to
be sure which. Are you saying it means any other
provision of the law, except those that affect the
jurisdiction of courts? Or are you saying any other
provisions of law that relate to foreign assistance?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I am saying that except for
those that relate to jurisdiction, because that is the
kind of thing that you would expect Congress to deal
with correctly.
The answer to Justice Ginsburg's question in
the first 30 minutes is has this Court ever confronted a
statute and construed it to remove the jurisdiction of
the Federal courts without expressly saying so, is no.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can you -- I would like to
follow up on Justice Stevens's question. Think of three
categories, A is the category which you could see that
other questions of law apply to. B, is this case, and
C, is the other -- other things -- other things that it
might apply to, but in your opinion it would be absurd
to apply them to that. All right, what's in category C?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: If it's anything, it would
be the export of military hardware. In the immediate
wake of the fall of Baghdad, when there is no new
government, right? There is no replacement regime. If
you read "any" to mean literally "every" then you could
ship munitions, nuclear materials and the like when
there is no state there and it's silly to think that
Congress intended that. Its reasons for enacting the
statute had to be --
JUSTICE BREYER: Wait, wait. After Saddam
Hussein falls --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and we have a new
government --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: We don't have a new
government.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yo mean some period of
days, or something?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Who's paying for these
shipments? I mean, is that a real problem when there is
nobody over there to pay for them? You are worried
about -- about armaments producers shipping -- shipping
goods when there is nobody who has ordered them and is
going to pay for them? I mean, that's absurd.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, it's not -- it's not
entirely clear there is still a government in Iraq.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right, is there any one
other than that?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: No. Okay.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I think -- I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: So basically, basically
your reading --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- is the word "any other"
does apply to any other.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Except your case.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And possibly this thing for
a couple of days.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that isn't exactly an
absurd result then, to say "any other" really means any
other including this case.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Justice Breyer, in --
the same point was made in cases like Atascadero and
Raygor. "Any" means "every" except for the States. In
that example.
But can I just make quite clear, we have two
lines of argument. And I think it's important to
recognize that. We have the debate over what any other
means and does that include section 1605(a)(7). That's
what we have been discussing here, and the idea that any
means every, and Congress spoke broadly and so that's
what we have.
But we have the other incredibly important
arguments of what it means to make a sanction
inapplicable. Which is separate and independent of that
point, and the question of whether the statutes sunset
as the Acree court did. And I want to return First to
those point of what it is to make inapplicable a statute
that applies to nations that have supported terrorism.
And I want to return to the statutory text and explain
why our more modest reading of "make inapplicable" is
the right one.
So the statutory text again is at 4a. Here
are, I think, the strong statutory indications that we
are right, that what Congress was trying to do was to
allow the President to immediately de-designate Iraq as
a terrorist state. First, there is a direct parallel
between the language "a statute that applies to
countries that have supported terrorism" and the
directive that the President can make it inapplicable.
That tells you, look at how it is that these statutes
apply in the first place, and the linguistic term of art
is to do the reverse. Take something that applies and
make it inapplicable.
And something that applies to an -- statutes
apply to countries that have supported terrorism under
American law only in one way, through designation. And
what happens is that the President was allowed to
rescind it.
The second textual reason for our more
modest reading of make inapplicable is reference to
section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act. So we know
one thing: even if we debate and disagree, Justice
Breyer, about what any means in this context, we know
the Congress told the President he could immediately
make inapplicable section 620A.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why did -- why did he need
the statute to do that? In other words if the President
had the power to designate in the first place, normally
that assumes the power to -- to rescind the designation.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's exactly right, but
that's the point. When I took you to the text of 620A,
which was at 344 of the joint appendix volume 2,
Justice Souter, he didn't have the power to do it right
away. Remember, Baghdad falls; there is no new
government; and the old government hasn't changed its
ways. So he lacks the power to remove the designation.
And I can prove that to you. It wasn't until there was
a new government that the President actually did
formally rescind the designation pursuant to the Foreign
Assistance Act. It wasn't until 2004. After --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's -- that's
just a belt-and-suspenders act. I mean, he -- he has
the authority here, and he -- although it may look
difficult, he has to envision there may be people who
challenge that -- his interpretation of the law. So
there's the other provision that will make it
inapplicable under that as well.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I -- I disagree, but we will
accept that. Mr. Chief Justice, my point isn't, hey,
look, he himself acknowledged that he needed to exercise
his de-designation power. My point is different, and
that is the fact that he didn't do this under the
Foreign Assistance Act until 2004 is a strong indication
that he couldn't do it before. If he could have done it
before, he would have.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And it may also be an
indication that he thought he had effectively
accomplished what he wanted by -- by acting under this
statute, and therefore he had other fish to fry.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I -- I don't understand,
Justice Souter, why he would in 2004, after a new
government is recognized, suddenly decide to
de-designate Iraq. There wasn't any -- the only --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I -- I don't know, either.
I mean, I can't -- I can't read minds, but there is an
interpretation that is quite possible consistent with
the text of this statute, that he thought that by acting
under 1503, he had done everything that he needed to do.
Why he had at some subsequent time said, well, you know,
I'll -- I'll use belt as well as suspenders, I don't
know. But it would be consistent with the assumption
that he had the authority here.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, it -- I agree it would
be consistent with the assumption that he had the
authority here. That's -- I'm not trying to negative
that. What I'm trying to say is that the authority
under 620A -- the fact that he exercised it in 2004 is a
strong indication that that's -- it's not the only
possible reading, but it's a strong indication that
that's when he thought he got the power. The --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But, Mr. Goldstein,
before you finish your argument, I'd like to know what
you think about the claim for relief. The D.C. Circuit
said this is a mere jurisdictional provision, and it
doesn't provide a private right of action; the new
statute does, but that doesn't apply to Iraq. So, what
was the source of the claim -- what is the source of
these plaintiffs' claim for relief?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The Solicitor General has it
right. Post-Acree, these claims -- these types of
claims were pleaded principally as State-law claims, and
that has been recognized as providing a substantive
cause of action.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Which -- which State law?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The State law generally of
the home State of the plaintiffs.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So that -- by that
reasoning, people all over the world could sue the
United States in their courts alleging that the United
States has engaged in cruel and inhuman treatment with
respect to their nationals. The same theory would apply
-- use the law of the state where the national comes
from. So, it could be Iraq, could be Belgium, could be
Yemen -- any place. So -- but the claim you are saying
exists would be a kind of universal one, if it's -- the
United States could use it, any other place in the world
could, too.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, that is clear -- well,
in -- in terms of whether or not a foreign country would
look to our law and say, well, we're just doing the same
thing as you do, that would arise from -- also from new
section 1605A.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No. Looking to their own
law.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, I understand,
Justice Ginsburg. Section -- for example, section
1605A, the statute that's created by the 2008 NDAA,
creates an affirmative U.S. cause of action. There is
always going to be an underlying domestic cause of
action that underlies the FSIA, whether it's State law
or instead it's Federal law. That is a -- a debate
about whether the FSIA is a good statute or not, but
it's one that Congress has resolved --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, no. I mean, it's
also a debate as to whether the call on that question
should be a Federal one or a State one, whether -- there
are all sorts of conditions attached to the -- the suits
that are allowed under 620A. And you are saying that,
even without those conditions, any State -- Oklahoma --
can decide Americans can -- can sue foreign countries.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Justice Scalia, the --
the source of the underlying cause of action is not
presented by this case. The D.C. Circuit has resolved
that question in our favor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I know, but we have been
talking about it --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- for a couple of minutes,
so we --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. I'm here to talk
about what you want to talk about, and all I'm --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't start this.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I did, and you can --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: All right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You can go back to your
jurisdiction argument.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Maybe I can finish
it. The -- the -- I had said that I also wanted to
continue with the text, on the question of what it is to
"make inapplicable." I pointed out how it is that all
of these statutes are applied and made inapplicable. I
also want to draw the contrast between the two operative
powers that are given to the President. At the
beginning, the statute says the President may suspend
the application of any provision of the Iraq Sanctions
Act, which is the kind of power that they are talking
about, essentially to lift the statute; whereas, the
term of art, we think, "make inapplicable" in the
context of these statutes is the narrow power to
de-designate the state as a state sponsor of terror.
But let me just return, if I can --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If I could just
pause --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- for a moment.
The -- the President in exercising this
waiver purported to act not only under the statute but
under the Constitution as well. So if we were to accept
your argument, we would have to decide whether or not he
had the power under the Constitution.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I don't think the question
is presented here. It could have been an argument that
was made, but I don't believe it's presented by this
case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's not
presented because your friends on the other side think
the -- on a narrower ground, that the statute applies.
But if we agree with you and disagree with that, it
seems to me that he has an argument -- the President has
the argument that he has this authority under the
Constitution.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I agree he has that
argument; he just hasn't made it in -- in this case --
in his -- in the Iraq's -- Iraq hasn't made it in the
cert petition, I should say, in the question on this
Court -- on which this Court granted certiorari.
I think to decide the debate, Justice
Souter, of whether we're in equipoise here and the
debate about whether or not the power was grand or
instead more modest, we have to resolve the -- the
question of what it is that Congress intended to do in
this proviso to this emergency appropriations measure.
Was it confronting a very specific moment in time at
which Baghdad had just fallen and we needed to get
emergency -- emergency aid to Iraq? Or was it, instead,
fundamentally changing our policy, making Iraq an ally
despite the fact that there wasn't even an Iraqi
government there? Was he given -- was Congress giving
the power to the President to immunize Iraq permanently
from liability under the FSIA, which doesn't even exist
with respect to our closest allies, Britain and France?
That is a significant over-reading of what --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why -- why do you say
"permanently"?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Because --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Just under -- just under
this statute, if he makes inapplicable, he can rescind
the action that made it inapplicable.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I don't understand how,
Justice Souter. The -- the powers of the President
expired. This statute sunset. Their whole point is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well -- no, but during the
period in which the statute is applicable, I don't know
of any reason why he cannot change his designation of
inapplicability. So that the argument of a permanent
change in the foreign policy of the United States or the
-- or the powers relating to the foreign policy of the
United States doesn't seem to me a legitimate argument.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's fine while it was in
effect, but it's not anymore. Their point is that they
permanently made the FSIA -- the -- section 620A of the
Foreign Assistance Act in 2008 and 2009 inapplicable,
and that would be incredibly unusual. Why would we give
that power with respect to Iraq when we don't to our
very closest allies? Remember the statute expired, and
they say it's still in effect. That's their answer to
the sunset. It makes no sense at all.
The only thing that makes sense is to read
it in its context of being a modest attempt to deal with
an immediate problem. And section 1605(a)(7) says what
happens when you deal with that immediate problem. If
you change the designation of a state -- if they become
an ally, if they change their ways -- they are still
liable for the acts of torture they committed while they
were designated.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think -- I think what
they say is that the designation remains in effect. I
don't think they say that the power to undesignate
disappears.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I don't understand --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'd be -- well, I'll ask
them, but I'd be surprised if it's --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Let me -- let me ask the
same question with respect to the new statute, the
"capital A" statute.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Would there be -- and I
just -- I don't know the answer to this. Would there be
authority under the "capital A" statute to undo the
designation?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No. That -- that entire
provision was waived with respect to Iraq. And we're --
take section 620A --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. He waived it, but
the question is whether he would have had the authority
to undesignate or -- or to rescind the designation of
inapplicability if he had wished to exercise the
authority under the "capital A" statute.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I have no -- I'm not aware
of any provision of the 2008 NDAA that would have given
the President any such power. They say that on the day
the President exercised his -- his powers that the
Foreign Assistance Act, section 620A, became
inapplicable to Iraq, that sanction, and that that
inapplicability survived the sunset of the statute in
2005. How it would come back -- how it would come back
and continue to apply in Iraq in the case of a regime
change in Iraq, I have no idea at all.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Congress could pass a
law.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Franklin, you have 5 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN S. FRANKLIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FRANKLIN: Thank you, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You want to clarify this
last part --
MR. FRANKLIN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- we have just been
discussing?
MR. FRANKLIN: It is not the position of the
Government of Iraq that in the very hypothetical
instance in which something would change that they could
not be redesignated. We believe they could be
redesignated. We believe that is also the position of
the United States. When we say "permanent," we mean as
opposed to just temporary. And I might add it is our
position that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought you'd say that.
MR. FRANKLIN: It is our position that it
will be permanent because the Government of Iraq is now
a very strong ally of the United States in the fight
against terrorism, not a sponsor of it.
Just a few other points based on the
argument that just occurred. They are interpreting the
statute apparently now to say that the President only
had the power to rescind the -- the previous
designations, but that's not what the statute says. If
that's what Congress had meant, they would have done
that. They said "make inapplicable." And their entire
case depends on that statute being applicable today
because it serves as the abrogation of Iraq's sovereign
immunity, and it serves as the predicate for subject
matter jurisdiction.
It cannot be both applicable and having been
made inapplicable.
The other point that was mentioned -- and
also I would also say in this regard that our foreign
policy towards Iraq is different than our foreign policy
towards other former state-sponsored terrorism. Libya,
for example, was taken off the list, but there was an
express requirement that Libya answer to the claims that
were before it. And, of course, that was because the --
the government that sponsored that terrorism, the -- the
Khadafi Government, was still in power.
Here we had gone into the country with U.S.
military force aided by our allies, and we have ousted
the regime, and we were seeking to support Iraq in its
efforts to rebuild.
There was a point about the de-designation
that was done in 2004. The Secretary of State -- and it
is cited on page 25 in the blue brief. The Secretary of
State said in the de-designation that it was largely
symbolic or perhaps a belt and suspenders, but he said
it was largely symbolic in light of the prior EWSAA
determination. However -- and this is relevant to
something else that occurred. The de-designation was
also necessary to allow military exports to Iraq because
under the proviso 3 of the EWSAA, military exports were
specifically exempted from the President's authority.
That also shows that Congress knew how to
make exceptions to the President's power when it wanted
to.
And, finally, I would say that we do agree
with the analysis that Justice Souter has -- has
posited, and that is that this involves a lesser power
than the President could have exercised on his own
authority to -- to completely espouse the claims. It,
therefore, fits entirely within what is normally done in
these kinds of cases.
And, Justice Ginsburg, it is also the
position of the Government of Iraq that Iraqi victims
ought to be included in any state-to-state diplomatic
negotiations. But that is a matter for the two
governments to resolve between themselves, and that is
one of the reasons why these kinds of claims have always
been resolved in that manner in the past. They are
reciprocal, bilateral concerns that affect two very
close allies. Those governments ought to be negotiating
and resolving those claims, whatever claims there are on
both sides, between the two of them.
If there are no further questions, thank
you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
13:20 action 18:21 42:1 55:1 17:11 25:13 38:15 42:17
17:17 19:3,10 24:7 allowed 10:4 29:16 30:9,10 43:11,24 50:19
26:20 45:6,14 46:14 12:4,9 18:20 30:14 41:19 52:10
13:11 50:5 alluded 23:6 48:24 assume 31:11
actions 6:18 ally 49:18 51:5 apply 19:14,16 assumed 35:5
56:5 acts 21:14 22:2 alternative 30:12 39:2,4,5 assuming 29:20
53:25 53:10 Americans 47:1 14:5 35:18 37:13
16:17 16:3 35:6,21 36:1 atextual 16:16
adjudicating analysis 13:24 area 14:9 46:23
48:15 adoption 23:1 38:20 50:23 11:14,16 13:19 attempt 33:6,17
affect 8:13,22 anymore 50:17 32:8 33:8,10 17:21
55:21 apparently 37:9,9 38:11 authorities 5:10
aftermath 16:20 appear 29:25 49:1,2,5 50:12 5:14,19,23 7:2
41:17 ago 34:12 1:21 53:18 9:10 10:2
6:2 28:18 34:4 appears 29:9 13:23 32:12 21:22 22:3,8
10:15 44:19 48:25 appendix 23:20 41:14 22:13,20,25
15:17 49:4 55:7 25:6 29:8 43:3 argument's 23:8,9 31:21
21:11 Agricultural applicable 4:22 13:19 31:25 33:3,23
24:4 26:8 10:9 12:11 armaments 40:3 33:24 34:23,24
26:7,9,10 aid 26:8 36:2 25:10 30:5 arose 22:2 43:14 44:18,21
29:15 37:21 49:17 50:10 53:24 art 31:6 42:7 44:22 49:2
34:2,18 aided 54:15 54:3 48:5 51:21 52:2,5
42:17 AL 1:6,10,13 application 8:5 aside 21:20 55:3,11
Alito 7:13,17 8:6,21 12:23 29:18 authorized 8:25
50:19 35:25 22:9 48:2 asserted 19:25 9:24 16:7
alleging 45:20 applied 4:15,19 assets 16:24 availability 19:6
8:3 49:23 50:22 47:23 assistance 26:7 23:19
52:6 blanket 9:9 35:17,18,19 circumstances compromise
29:8 54:20 55:13 cited 11:9 12:20 compulsions
34:21,22 39:15,18,23 cause 18:21 19:2 18:24 19:1 55:21
52:13,13 40:8,11,13,16 19:10 24:7 21:4,9,16,21 conclusively 9:4
43:5 41:2 42:19 47:3 45:25 46:25
brief 12:21 ceding 34:21 claimant 20:9 conferred 11:2
29:7,8 54:20 certainly 11:17 claiming 13:4,6 confronted
bundles 17:20 24:9,14 27:1 55:11,19,23,23 10:9 12:2,24
32:22 C 37:16 50:11,13 classic 11:25 18:6 21:13,25
C 2:2 3:1,8 4:1 51:4,5 52:15 clear 16:21 22:19,24 23:7
3:4,6,9,12 capital 51:17,21 32:10,16 35:7 close 55:22 31:8 32:16
15:1 16:2 52:5 43:6 closely 36:1,7 34:18,21 35:12
52:22 case 4:4,5,25 changes 24:6,8 closest 10:11 35:15,16 36:12
53:7,8 14:4 15:8,18 24:25 49:18 30:4 31:4 39:13 41:11,25
32:1,11,22,22 14:7 15:16,24 32:15,20 34:14 53:22 55:4
28:4 48:21 49:5 43:12,20 48:9 28:16 51:6 23:5
56:3,4 56:2 compensation consideration
course 11:1 18:3 42:18 46:17,21 determination discussing 41:10
29:9 54:11 debts 36:20,21 11:11 16:22 discussion 27:10
11:3,15,16 48:16 49:9 determinations 20:13,14
49:3 15:10 16:6,17 deemed 7:2 14:15 23:2 18:23
22:7 23:18,19 13:2,12,14,16 7:24 distinction 25:4
35:20 37:15 deference 14:3,9 determines district 19:5
31:6 22:1 35:8,9 deliberately 42:1 44:9 48:7 36:12 46:6
42:19 38:14,23 45:20 22:19 de-designated dollars 16:22
51:1 Court's 8:5 democratic 7:10 24:9 25:22 19:25 36:2
52:14 creates 46:14 deny 37:19 23:4 doubt 21:9
16:3 designated 54:7 47:24
38:19 21:15 22:3 dilemma 27:6 37:24
19:3 Dames 33:18 51:7 14:25 15:13 19:21 45:4
52:19 date 6:8 designating 23:4 20:12 21:3,7 47:4
dating 11:4 designation 24:6 55:16
16:9 days 27:15 24:25 26:16,21 direction 34:8 E 3:1 4:1,1
29:17 39:24 40:22 29:1,4,23 directive 42:5 earlier 27:15
42:4,11 dead 31:22 30:13 31:7 directly 36:4 economic 38:6
deal 28:8 38:18 33:2 42:12,25 disabilities 7:4 economy 36:18
18:10 dealing 34:23 51:4,9,22 52:3 42:18 43:19 8:10 10:17,25
24:8 36:16 designations 48:25 22:11 24:15
26:11,13 deals 31:6 53:21 disappears 31:3 32:17
54:14 dealt 36:20 despite 21:21 51:11 50:17,23 51:9
12:21 48:4 exist 19:5 33:5,8 fallen 27:15 25:7 26:8
establish 7:9 49:22 49:16 29:15 31:19,21
44:3 established existence 9:11 43:5 36:2,5 37:7,20
36:13 EWSAA 8:25 expect 38:18 35:7,9 37:18 50:19 52:10
16:7 27:9,14 expected 36:19 38:23 46:17,22 54:6,7
30:21 Ex 10:18 expire 5:11 fight 53:15 54:8
35:5 exactly 9:16 expired 5:14 figure 30:1 forum 19:7,16
49:14,17 28:14 40:24 7:22 9:11 50:8 final 12:16 framework
43:1 50:22 13:24 20:14
27:9,14 35:22 41:5 32:25 41:20 find 11:15 49:23
28:20,24 46:12 54:9 explained 37:1 fine 33:4 37:23 Franklin 1:22
32:5 exception 16:10 export 39:7 first 4:4 7:18 9:17 10:6,11
12:3 38:9 Export-Import 27:10 32:4 14:11 15:3,18
exceptions 17:9 26:10 33:17 34:7 30:7 52:20,21
excuse 34:11 54:10 42:2,7,24 53:13
11:11 14:3 extend 6:8,10,16 focused 38:5 frustrated 17:25
35:17 extent 8:13,21 following 4:12 FSIA 10:23 18:7
35:3,4 14:1 16:13 fact 7:10,14 10:15,16,24 full 22:10
49:10 33:6 43:21 10:12 11:19 11:3,6 14:1,5 fundamental
exercised 17:8 21:21 24:8 15:17,19 16:10 fundamentally
55:10 failure 18:24 18:2,4,5,9 20:9 20:22
28:9,14,18 Hallward-Dri... 10:25 16:24 include 24:14
30:22 1:24 3:5 15:25 17:22,23 20:4 41:9
17:7
23:25 37:11 38:1,8 happen 26:24 24:20 26:21 incredibly 41:13
45:10 38:16 39:6,17 32:19 30:21,23 31:9 50:20
40:12,15,18,20 9:19,22 10:22 Immunities 41:15
10:7 43:1,19 44:6 happening 15:17 16:11 indication 43:24
13:4 44:19 45:2,10 28:11 22:19 24:4 44:3,24,25
18:17 45:16 46:4,11 happens 26:17 25:7 31:20 indications
20:16 47:2,8,11,16 42:13 51:3 34:17 41:24
30:16 47:19 48:11,18 hardware 39:7 immunity 4:24 inhuman 45:21
45:2,15 49:4 50:2,6,16 health 36:17 5:5,5,6 10:14 injured 21:1
46:9,12 51:12,18,23 hear 4:3 11:1 10:16,24 11:6 instance 10:8
52:16 52:6 held 19:1 13:15,19 14:21 15:8 53:6
good 46:18 helping 6:24 15:19 17:10 intended 6:2
governing 21:22 historically 21:6 21:19 22:22 intensely 18:15
22:10 6:22 7:10 28:23 36:15 54:1 intention 7:15
35:8 14:19 16:20 hold 14:21 22:6 immunize 49:21 7:15
17:21 26:12,25 home 45:17 impact 38:6 interest 15:11
14:2,5 28:2,3,7,12,21 10:12 15:3 5:15 8:7 14:12 17:16 18:5
29:21,22 36:18 37:18,22 18:22 20:20 26:17 41:7,13 20:25
47:25 39:9,19,21 52:23 56:1 inapplicability international
52:7 40:7 43:6,6,9 Honor's 21:1 50:12 52:4,12 26:14 27:4
49:20 53:5,14 54:12 Hussein 4:13 4:14,21 5:16 6:17 43:16
47:17 governments 17:23 18:13 17:13 22:5,6 interpreting
23:24 grand 49:11 hypothetical 30:4,5,10,14 involved 14:8
29:13 granted 49:8 53:5 30:18,25 31:1 involves 55:9
34:8,12 ground 12:14 31:3,5 41:15 involving 15:12
37:8,16 48:24 I 41:18,21 42:5 Iran 25:13 26:15
46:15 grounds 13:14 idea 41:10 52:15 42:9,16,21 30:10
23:14,15 Guinea-Bissau identify 18:25 48:5 50:4,5,19 4:14,21 5:18
25:5,19 30:11 19:4 52:11 53:23 5:19,24 6:2,4
7:3,8 8:7 12:22,24 17:6 40:24 41:2 5:16 8:21 9:2 logically 38:2
9:1 18:23 22:8 42:18,22 43:4 9:25 16:9 18:1 long 25:17
13:3
16:8 12:15,16,16,20 44:7,10 45:2 19:4,7,8,9,15 long-term 36:17
17:1,13 12:23 13:1,2 45:15,18 46:9 19:16,19 28:16 look 38:2,4 42:6
13:12,12,14,16 46:12,20 47:2 28:25 29:16,19 43:14,21 46:6
19:12 13:21,21,22 47:6,9,13,15 35:11,15 36:25 looking 35:11
21:23 16:23 17:17 47:17 48:9,12 37:7 38:10,13 46:9
48:22 49:9,25 38:15 39:2 lot 21:2 30:15
24:23 judicial 15:14 50:3,7,9 51:8 42:12 43:16
31:2,5 June 27:17 51:13,15,19 45:15,16,23 M
36:3 28:22 52:1,16,19,24 46:6,10,16,17 majority 16:17
40:7 42:1 jurisdiction 53:2,12 55:8 52:17 making 13:18
45:7,24 4:25 10:20 55:14 56:2 lawful 28:7 13:23 27:22
49:6,17 11:3 22:1,7,15 laws 30:2,8 32:23 33:9
50:21 35:7,9 38:14 K leadership 27:1 49:18
52:11,14 38:17,22 47:18 Kennedy 28:4 leeway 14:3 manner 55:20
53:5,14 54:2 28:10,15,19 left 20:7
55:1
10:8,10 11:2 kind 38:18 46:1 6:19 7:21 matter 1:18 4:24
18:16 45:5 kinds 15:4,6 7:24 36:14
55:17
27:16
28:21 7:13,17 8:15 knew 55:4 35:17
10:5,7 know 33:7 36:25 legitimate 28:7 29:5 32:8 37:3
49:19 11:5 12:15 42:17,19 44:10 50:15 39:10,23 40:1
13:4 14:7,23 44:15,17 45:3 lesser 55:9 40:5 43:13
24:20 17:2 18:17 51:20 31:10,10 34:25 53:9
36:20 19:11 20:6,16 Korea 25:14,15 liability 25:1 means 5:11
53:25 21:8,16,20 30:11 49:22 21:13 30:2
15:20 23:17 25:3,17 L Libya 25:14,15 40:25 41:4,9
26:1,4 27:6,18 lack 5:4 30:10 54:8,10 41:11,14 42:19
28:15,19 29:3 28:1 light 54:23 measure 5:3
30:16 lacks 43:7 limitation 16:17 30:21 34:19
34:7,16 35:25 29:12 35:10 29:4 20:22 33:20
3:3,11 4:7 37:11,19,23 large 28:17 lines 29:10 41:7 medium 36:16
38:8,20,24,25 largely 54:21,23 linguistic 42:7 memorandum
55:1,2 negotiations 46:25 15:6 please 4:10 16:6
38:21 36:23 30:18 34:21,24 pause 48:10 23:24 27:22
52:20 new 7:9 12:7,23 37:24 pay 17:22 20:4 28:19,22 31:15
26:25 27:10,11 ongoing 20:13 paying 39:25 41:3,16,18
41:21 28:21 39:8,18 operative 47:24 penalizing 6:22 50:8,17 54:5
49:12 39:20 43:5,9 opinion 39:4 pending 10:9 54:18
44:7 45:6 46:7 opposed 53:10 11:23,24 12:3 pointed 47:22
49:15 nine 34:11 16:1 19:4 37:22 37:13 53:17
normally 42:24 ordered 40:4 20:18 43:15 policy 6:21 7:8
numerous 11:10 outstanding Peru 10:18 15:8 36:17
32:21 O overview 25:20 Petitioners 1:11 position 31:17
obligation 20:24 49:24 3:12 4:8 16:4 53:11,13 55:15
30:9 Obviously 9:9 P 4:1 place 19:9 42:7 possibly 40:21
occurred 7:20 page 3:2 15:10 42:24 45:25 Post-Acree
52:7 53:18 54:25 panoply 6:3 plain 4:17 6:14 power 8:23
55:1 odd 36:9 parallel 42:2 22:11 37:15 24:21,23 27:8
44:14 Okay 10:6 26:1 parte 10:18 plaintiffs 12:6 33:5,11 34:20
26:4,5 29:6 partial 9:15 13:10 15:1 35:8,16 42:24
43:4,7 Presidents provides 9:5 39:2 55:25 reconstruction
45:1 31:21 providing 45:13 quite 6:9 33:2 20:4 36:9 38:7
President's 4:21 provision 4:19 34:4 41:6 redesignated
50:21 6:18 7:22 9:20 5:9 6:15 8:5,9 44:12 53:7,8
52:8 12:10,10 13:25 8:16 9:16 10:8 quote 10:19 15:9 reenact 8:23
54:13 16:13,21 26:20 10:10 11:23 reenactment
31:17 33:14 12:3 16:8 R 9:14
50:7,14 previous 53:20 37:7 38:10,13 37:14 41:4 refile 12:5
previously 43:17 45:5 reach 11:17 regard 54:6
10:22 54:23 38:15 42:16 44:25 39:9 52:14
37:9 privileges 9:1 29:9 35:21 realistic 17:4 regime's 7:5
problem 29:5 provisos 35:7 reason 12:9 25:6 relate 38:15,17
proceed 21:10 48:14 42:15 50:11 36:7
7:1,7 21:21 purpose 30:19 reasoning 45:19 relating 25:9
8:2,6,7 proceeding 13:7 37:1 reasons 6:13 50:14
9:9,24 13:9 purposes 34:22 12:13 31:14,14 relations 15:12
11:20 proceedings pursuant 17:14 33:17 39:13 23:11
16:7 15:15 22:8 43:10 55:19 relationship
22:4 process 30:13,17 put 8:23 20:8 rebuild 7:9 37:17
30:19 31:7 25:2 14:18 54:17 relatively 35:20
24:13,17 processes 25:11 putting 21:20 rebuttal 3:10 relevant 11:15
27:8,23 producers 40:3 29:18 15:23 52:21 23:22 28:19
28:6,17 profoundly 32:5 reciprocal 55:21 54:24
29:11 32:7,9 Q reciprocity relief 45:4,9
31:9,20 prohibition question 6:6 8:4 15:20 relieve 7:3
25:23,24 26:3 9:3 13:1,10 recision 26:19 remainder
26:6 16:13 20:6 recognition 11:5 15:23
project 19:19 21:1 28:11,12 recognize 5:15 remaining 52:20
35:8 prove 7:10 43:8 29:24 32:9 14:12,14 27:16 remains 51:9
provide 19:2,10 35:3 38:9,20 41:8 remedy 20:8
43:9 26:7 35:21 38:25 41:16 recognized 18:4 remember 8:7
48:1,13 45:6 46:21 47:5,21 28:21 44:8 27:9 32:18
50:7 provided 26:13 48:18 49:7,13 45:13 33:19 43:5
53:19 27:4 29:11 51:16 52:2 recognizes 18:8 50:22
36:4 questions 38:5 reconstruct 36:3 remove 24:17
43:7 21:3,7 21:8,16,20 Secretary 26:12 sign 8:8,11
46:19 47:4 role 22:18 11:19 12:8 SIMON 1:13
resolving 20:14 23:5 24:11,15 24:14 25:7,17 simply 31:18,22
55:23 rules 13:13 27:8 28:24 simultaneous
12:1,2 16:8 17:10 34:18 37:20 41:9 single 11:23
9:5,7 29:14 45:22 46:12,12 50:18 situation 10:21
49:23 50:21 S 51:2,25 52:10 35:13
Respondents 4:1,7 52:21 seek 14:24 20:2 small 20:10
11:22 restored 22:24 36:20 39:15 seizure 16:23 24:10,24 45:10
restrictions 7:4 sake 31:13 33:8 sense 10:4 22:24 somebody's
24:9 31:23 sanctions 5:18 serious 13:10 sort 33:19 36:16
10:18 15:8 return 30:6 18:12 30:8 serve 4:22 source 18:25
reversal 12:14 33:10,21 38:12 54:1 Souter 9:13 10:5
29:1,22 revived 5:3 8:17 says 24:4,10 setting 34:18 29:20 31:10,13
43:10 re-enact 10:2 30:17 31:4 settled 28:5,6 32:7,18 33:1,7
52:3 right 5:2 15:2,17 36:15 48:1 settlement 20:17 33:22,25 34:4
18:19 19:13 51:2 53:21 seven 27:15 29:9 34:7 37:3,6,11
28:14 31:10 25:17 36:24 shifted 18:14 43:4 44:2,7,10
26:18 43:1,4 45:6,11 51:8,13 52:24 shipments 40:1 51:19 52:1
47:16 53:2,12 shipping 40:3,3 55:8
22:19,22 17:21 19:17 Stevens's 38:25 3:7 14:16,17 terror 20:19
25:7 20:3,24,25 stop 31:21 34:8 16:4 24:5 48:7
34:17 21:14 25:24 straight 25:20 suppose 9:15 terrorism 4:16
26:6 30:7 31:2 strange 35:20 34:7 5:17 6:5,23 7:6
50:13,15 53:9 44:24,25 53:15 35:12 38:12 21:14 25:10
30:17 state-sponsored 13:13 20:11 surrender 10:19 41:19 42:4,11
54:8 32:11 54:1 survived 28:13 53:16 54:8,12
48:7 55:16 subsection suspend 48:1 text 23:23,25
statute 4:17 8:2 26:22 suspended 5:18 25:20 29:3,7
16:9 12:2,8 16:14 7:23 44:15 44:16 54:22 44:13 47:21
54:12 22:9,11 23:3,8 subsequently suspension 5:4 textual 37:24
29:15 30:16 19:19 45:13 54:23 23:13 52:19,23
36:14,15 38:2 successfully 26:14 30:9 theory 45:22
19:7,16 50:4,8,10,22 suit 18:20,25 37:12 42:8 37:21 39:3,3
20:10,11 51:16,17,21 34:8 51:25 think 8:19 9:18
24:5,21 52:5,12 53:19 suitors 15:12 taken 35:10 54:9 10:1,3,11
28:25 53:21,24 suits 19:24 talk 23:22 47:11 13:24 14:4,12
37:18 statutes 8:23 31:22 33:3 47:12 15:7 19:21
42:2 9:11 10:2 46:23 talking 9:17 20:5,21 28:23
12:24 16:18 summer 17:18 31:19 47:7 32:16,21 34:13
22:5 23:21,23 sunset 5:3,9 48:3 37:12 38:25
51:4 23:25 24:13 6:15,18 36:22 Tape 32:17 39:12 40:12,12
31:18,24 32:11 41:16 50:8,24 technically 9:13 41:7,24 45:4
35:11,23 48:6 support 7:6 23:5 thinks 33:23
statutory 4:11 26:13 27:4 temporary THOMAS 2:2
5:10 6:17 32:10 41:20,23 supported 29:17 term 29:24 31:6 thought 17:2
13:11 41:24 30:3 41:19 42:7 48:5 44:3,13 45:1
step 34:7 42:4,11 terms 23:2 25:2 53:12
17:1,5,10 STEVENS 38:8 supporting 2:1 46:5 threat 16:22,25
two 7:17 12:19 U.S 9:23 30:1,4 way 10:22 15:4 1 5:3 9:3,8 10:3
15:23 47:24 55:17,21 27:3 38:11 11:03 56:4
19:2 55:24 V 43:7 51:5 150 11:4
30:20 types 45:11 v 1:5,12 4:5 we're 13:7 31:18 1503 16:7 17:9
49:15 validly 7:25 46:6 49:10 18:8 22:4,24
14:6 18:18 30:24 31:1 32:10 28:24 44:14
53:24 unable 18:25 vetoed 8:9,9 wished 52:4 16 3:7
51:6 underlies 46:16 volume 23:21 31:1 37:1 4:20 8:16 9:7
31:25 38:11 44:6 wait 39:15,15 world 45:19 24:3,14,22,24
33:12 51:12 9:25 worried 40:2 51:2
23:11 undo 51:21 waiver 8:20,24 20:16 33:25 1954 26:9
13:11 14:6,15 21:9,21 48:14 wrong 19:9,11
50:13,15 53:9 wanted 25:4 Y 7:25 17:18
24:2 unusual 11:12 warrants 12:14 Yemen 45:25 44:7,23 54:19
38:4 50:20 Washington Yo 39:23 2005 6:1 52:13
44:21,22 upheld 19:6 1:15,22,24 2:2 2008 7:14 9:21
46:2 43:8,11 44:9 07-1090 1:5 4:4 50:19 52:7
37:13
54:20
12:8
7:21 55:2
27:10 32:4
6:1
25:8 26:2
3:4
29:8 41:23
7:20 52:20
3:12
27:5
25:7 27:24
37:6,20
42:17,21
44:23
50:18
52:10
