IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
INDIANA, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-208
AHMAD EDWARDS. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 26, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
THOMAS M. FISHER, ESQ., Solicitor General, Indianapolis,
Ind.; on behalf of the Petitioner.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
Petitioner.
MARK T. STANCIL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THOMAS M. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
Curiae, supporting the Petitioner 18
MARK T. STANCIL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS M. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in Case 07-208, Indiana versus Edwards.
Mr. Fisher.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS M. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The trial court was justified in requiring a
higher level of competency for self-representation in
order to prevent the trial of Ahmad Edwards from
descending into a farce. Indeed, self-representation
where a defendant cannot communicate coherently with the
jury or the court would defeat the very autonomy
interests that the Court ventured to protect in Faretta.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But why is it necessary to
have a special rule in order to prevent the trial from
descending into a farce? Why couldn't you simply apply
the same rule of competency that you apply for whether
the defendant can be tried, and then if in fact his
self-representation begins to turn the trial into a
farce surely the court would have the power to prohibit
his further self-representation. Certainly, turning a
trial into a farce is a basis for the court's action;
no?
MR. FISHER: Well, I certainly hope so. And
I think on the record we've got here the trial court did
not need to wait for that to happen. If the trial had
begun with Mr. Edwards representing himself with the
jury present, and the trial had then become so unwieldy
and so farcical and such a mockery that he had -- his
right of self-representation had to be overridden, I
think there would have been a problem, a possible
problem of taint with the jury. I think that the court
was justified, having seen Mr. Edwards in court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The problem with taint
would be his own fault. I can't imagine that he would
success on appeal claiming he tainted the jury. And the
advantage of waiting is that by waiting to see if in
fact he will turn the trial into a farce you avoid the
risk of depriving him of his right to represent himself,
which is certainly a very important constitutional
right. Why didn't you wait to see whether he's going to
be able to pull it off or not?
MR. FISHER: I don't think that
Mr. Edwards's sort of waiver by conduct in that context
is the only thing to consider. I think that the State's
interests in having a proceeding that proceeds smoothly
without episodes that render the proceedings potentially
a mockery also are strong.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: As you understand the
Respondent's position -- and perhaps the question is
better addressed to the Respondent. But as you
understand their position, would they accept
Justice Scalia's formulation of what the rule ought to
be or the formulation that his question proposed?
MR. FISHER: You know, it's not clear to me
that they would. It seems to me that their position is
much more focused on the metes and bounds of what
Faretta specifically recognized, which was requiring the
defendant to comply with the rules and if there is a
disorderly kind of behavior that would be sufficient.
But I don't read their position to be that someone who
is lacking in communications skills and coherent
communications skills even on the record in the trial
would be someone whose right of self-representation
could be overridden.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What would happen if
you started out with pro se representation and then the
trial turned into a farce? Start over again, but he
would have to accept counsel at that point?
MR. FISHER: Well, it seems to me that we're
in a world here where we don't really know what the
precise rules would be because of the lack of clarity
for the trial courts. So I don't want to tell you
exactly what the Indiana courts would do, but I would
imagine that a trial judge would be faced with a
decision based on how long the trial has gone on, what
the level of complexity of the trial is, what the level
of farce or taint could be for the jury.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, there must be
precedents. I'm sure under the old rule, if I can
recall it the old rule, where you have a single standard
for both the right to be tried -- the -- the ability to
be tried and the right to represent yourself, there must
have been instances in which the person who was
representing himself was unable to cope and the trial
was -- was turning into a farce. There must have been
instances. What did they do?
MR. FISHER: Well, I think in the cases
where this happened, whether it's because the trial was
turned into a farce or because the defendant was
excluded from the courtroom, as in Illinois v. Allen, I
think the trial often proceeds.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Proceeds, that's what I
thought.
MR. FISHER: But I guess what I'm suggests
is that there is always going to be the possibility in
terms of a discretionary judgment call, whether it's a
systematic rule or whether it's something up to the
trial judge, that the court may decide that in interest
of fairness, that the -- you know -- all the -- all
that's gone on needs to be restarted, particularly if it
hasn't gone on very far. I don't mean to suggest a rule
in that regard. I'm suggesting --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is your test that
you're going to apply ex ante? Whether he's able to
coherently --
MR. FISHER: Oh, the test.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, what's the test?
MR. FISHER: Well, the rule that we are
suggesting -- and again let it caution that this is not
a rule adopted by the Indiana Supreme Court yet -- is
That it is within the State's authority to override this
right where the defendant cannot communicate coherently
with the court or the jury.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Cannot communicate
coherently? I sometimes -- I sometimes think that the
lawyers cannot communicate coherently.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's really a vague test,
isn't it?
MR. FISHER: I don't think it's any worse in
terms of vagueness than what we deal with in Dusky.
Now, Dusky talks about a reasonable level of
understanding and a reasonable ability to assist the
lawyer.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let me give you a
concrete illustration that was brought up by the other
side. If you have this coherent expression test, what
happens to the person who has a bad speech impediment?
Or someone who needs -- who isn't conversant in the
English language? Are they -- automatically the right
of self representation is automatically ruled out?
MR. FISHER: No. I think that in
circumstances such as those, there is another level of
analysis, which is whether there's some sort of
accommodation that can be made that would allow the
representation, self-representation, to proceed by means
of -- whether it's an interpreter or another means of
communication.
But What we're dealing with with Ahmad
Edwards is someone whose thought processes so
decompensate and become so disorganized that it's not --
it's not a matter of having an interpreter to carry out
his instructions. It's a matter of having someone who
can actually formulate a coherent defense and
communicate that to the court and to the jury.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your standard of
coherent communication, you would not require the
defendant, for example, to understand the hearsay rule,
or other things of that sort?
MR. FISHER: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, even if you
don't, I mean, how is he going to effectively
participate in the trial? Does he have to know, for
example, that he has the right and understand that he
has the right to cross-examine witnesses?
MR. FISHER: We're not asking to get into
that kind of level of detailed knowledge. All we're
suggesting is that once the defendant has made the
choices that are forced upon him essentially by the
trial, i.e., the decision to represent himself and the
decision whether to present a defense or not, that he
can actually carry that out; whatever it is that he
wants to do within the rules of the court, that he has
the capability of effectuating that. And that's the
problem Ahmad Edwards had.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But surely his total
ignorance of all of the trial rules, the hearsay rule
and the other details of conducting a trial, is a great
disadvantage. But we allow him to toss that away so
long as he knows he's tossing it away. That the judge
instructs him: You're ill-advised to proceed on your
own; you're not a lawyer; this is, you know, a
complicated process; are you sure you want to represent
yourself? And if he says yes, we say, well, you know,
you've brought it on yourself.
Why can't we say the same thing about his
supposed inability to communicate effectively, unless
and until he turns the trial into a farce?
MR. FISHER: Well, we can, but we need not,
I think is the point. And it's because there's a world
of difference between lack of legal knowledge and the
inability to relay a kind of coherent message that any
person, lawyer or not, of ordinary kind of mental
ability, capacity, would be able to formulate. I think
that there are substantial doubts about whether somebody
like Ahmad Edwards could convey to the jury that, in
fact, what he wants to present is, for example,
self-defense.
What we're talking about here is that he may
be thinking that and that may be something that Faretta
entitles him to want to pursue on his own, but we're
concerned that he couldn't in front of a jury
communicate that that's what he was trying to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if he -- what
if he wants to communicate not self-defense, but that,
you know, Martians did it? Is he -- and he can
coherently communicate that. There won't be any doubt
on the judge's part or the jury that he thinks Martians
did it? Would that qualify?
MR. FISHER: Well, I think we're getting
hopefully not into an area where there would be
legitimate questions about underlying Dusky competency.
I mean, it seems to me in that circumstance you could
have that level of concern as well. And then, beyond
that, if someone is using a sort of insanity
demonstration in the context of the trial, it seems to
me the court could fall back on not this rule, but on
the rule that there has to be a defense that's within
the bounds of the rules of the court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I mean, I'm
trying to find some level that is above competency. I
mean, there are people who believe in Martians, but
above competence to stand trial, but also that would
still be coherently communicated, but would show that
it's a ridiculous defense that's not going to be
effective in representing himself.
MR. FISHER: Well, I do think there's a line
that can be drawn between a ridiculous defense that's
within the bounds of sort of relevance and possibility,
such as, you know, a very ill-advised self-defense
theory, and the idea that the Martians did it, which I
think raises substantial questions as to Dusky
competency as well.
Now, I think that even looking at the
Court's later cases after Faretta, if we look at
Martinez and McKaskle, we see the same sense of
balancing that is what we're advocating here. I think
that McKaskle, recognizing that is a role sometimes for
standby counsel and that it is to be limited, is
something that starts down this road. And we're not
talking about a rule here I think that would threaten
the underlying decision that Faretta protects. We're
talking about a rule that is simply designed to let a
trial court ensure that the decisions that the defendant
makes are going to effectuate --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you think -- there is
always a concern in these cases whether or not we're
going to be creating more inefficiencies for the
judicial system; that is to say, the trial judge was
incorrect in ruling that the trial was becoming a farce.
I suppose you've weighed that cost against the benefits
of the rule. And what are the benefits of the rule,
that the trial is quicker, that the appeal is clearer?
MR. FISHER: Well, I think the benefits of
the rule, first and foremost, is that the State has and
the judicial system has greater certainty that there was
a fair trial, that the adversarial process played out in
a way that gave the jury, you know, a meaningful
decision to make, and also that it conveys to the public
that this is a reliable system.
Now, you're very right. This may introduce
inefficiencies, and we don't know what the Indiana
Supreme Court would make of that in its role as the
supervising court for the Indiana -- for the Indiana
courts.
But I think that what courts have an
impression of, including the Indiana Supreme Court, is
that they're not allowed to undertake that balance, that
Godinez and Faretta combine to preclude that option, and
that's what we want the Court to clear up, to say that
they do have that option.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you think your rule
would create an incentive for trial judges in close
cases to always deny self-representation? Because
certainly most trials proceed more efficiently and less
trouble for the judge if you have a lawyer there.
MR. FISHER: Well, I think that they're --
trial courts are always going to be concerned about
going too far and being reversed on those grounds. So
it seems to me that the same kinds of concerns that they
deal with when they're making an evaluation of Dusky
competency and making, you know, evaluation of whether a
waiver is known and voluntary, those kinds of incentives
would kind of be the same here in terms of not wanting
to go too far.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What would the standard of
review be? I'm a reviewing court. The judge has not
allowed this person to represent himself. What's the
standard of review? Abuse of discretion or what?
MR. FISHER: I think so. I think it would
be something very --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Abuse of discretion?
MR. FISHER: -- very much akin to what we
look at with Dusky. Whether there are factual
determinations may be reviewed for clear error, but the
overall judgment is essentially an abuse of discretion,
a deferential kind of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I assume if there is
error it would be structural error --
MR. FISHER: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: There would be no room for
harmless error analysis.
MR. FISHER: I agree with that.
JUSTICE ALITO: If the State's objective is
to make sure that there is a reasonably fair trial or
something that resembles a fair trial, isn't that going
to result in the denial of self-representation in a
great number of cases?
MR. FISHER: Well, I think that -- we're not
suggesting a rule that is unlimited in that regard. The
concern for fair trial is something that I think in a
lot of other Sixth Amendment contexts has some leeway,
but it also has limits. In the Wheat case, for example,
where the Court overrode the choice of -- first choice
paid counsel in view of conflicts of interest and the
fairness questions those raised, I don't think the Court
has been terribly concerned that interest runs wild and
that it overrides that right.
JUSTICE ALITO: If it is the case, as a lot
of people believe, that it is very -- it's the rare case
in which a lay defendant can adequately represent
himself or herself, then where do you draw the line?
MR. FISHER: Well, again, I think that there
is a qualitative, a real -- a sort of realistic line to
be drawn between someone who maybe has bad ideas and bad
judgments and someone who just cannot communicate what
those judgments are. In other words, someone who is
unable, particularly in an unstructured, stressful
environment, to communicate what it is that their
message is to the jury, to the judge --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in either case,
there's a farce.
MR. FISHER: Well, I think that there --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: A very rational highly
competent person might want to make the trial a farce.
Why should that case be any different than where the
person does so because he's incompetent?
MR. FISHER: Because I think that the -- the
kinds of decisions that someone would make that would
be -- I think even if well-communicated, would
demonstrating a farcical trial, would threaten the Dusky
competency standard. They would -- they would raise
questions in that regard. Now, if someone just had a
bad notion of what it is to defend themselves and what
idea they're trying to present to the jury, I don't
think, if that is communicated coherently, that that
presents the same concerns of a farcical trial that we
have with Ahmad Edwards.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The State's interests are
the same. If the highly competent person deliberately
wants to make a shambles out of the proceeding, the
State's interests are the same. Now, there are certain
options available. They can exclude him from the
courtroom or something, but --
MR. FISHER: Well, again, I think that there
are limits on what we're arguing, and I think that --
that the Wheat case demonstrates how there can be
flexibility here in terms of pursuing these fairness
interests without overriding completely the
self-representation interests -- or, I'm sorry, the
Sixth Amendment interests of a larger set of defendants.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Fisher, are you
making essentially a "we know it when we see it"
argument? Because you're not talking about some
abstract notion of what would be an abuse of discretion,
but you have in your brief -- you have at pages 15 and
16 -- some examples, concrete examples of this
defendant. And you could say when it gets to that
level, you don't have to wait to see how it's going to
play out. If this is how this man speaks and thinks,
how could a jury be exposed to it? It would be
gibberish.
MR. FISHER: Right. And I think that you
don't really have an unwieldy standard here any more
than with respect to Dusky when you're looking at
evaluations of statements and other things that the
defendant might have made.
If I may, I'd like to reserve the remainder
of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Dreeben.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
There are instances in the trial courts,
particularly with respect to mentally ill defendants,
where a defendant may have the degree of rational
understanding to satisfy the relatively low standard of
competence established in Dusky and reaffirmed
thereafter, but not have the capability of carrying out
the tasks that are needed to be performed in order to
try a case without it degenerating into a farce.
And I think, as Justice Scalia pointed out,
it would be well within the power of the trial court at
the time that that occurred to terminate
self-representation in order to further the State's
strong and important interest in fairness and the
appearance of fairness.
The question is whether a judge can also
make that decision ex ante before the trial has begun
and insist that the defendant be represented through
counsel.
We think the answer is that a State or the
Federal Government would have a sufficient interest in
terminating self- representation or in denying a motion
for self-representation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And what's your test, the
same test: Inability to communicate no matter how
idiotic? I mean this man is living in a fantasy world.
He understands that he's on trial, but his whole world
is just -- he not only believes in Martians, he thinks
we are all Martians, or something like that.
I mean --
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why pick on just the
ability to communicate? It seems to me there are a lot
of defects that can turn the trial into a farce.
MR. DREEBEN: We agree with that,
Justice Scalia. And our view is that the Court should
not necessarily resolve this by adopting a specific test
that focuses on the ability to communicate, but should,
instead, look at whether the State has a sufficient
interest that would be served by denying self-
representation.
The defendant's lack of ability to
communicate can certainly serve that interest. There
may be instances in which the defendant lacks the memory
to be able to remember from day to day what happened in
the trial; and if you were called upon to perform all
the myriad tasks of trial counsel, he would break down.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you worry at all that if
we adopt a separate test for the ability to represent
yourself, that the inevitable effect will be for the
test for being able to be tried to become less and less
rigorous?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: After all, there's no harm
done so long as the person can't -- is not allowed to
represent himself.
I think there may be some value in linking
the two, so that -- so that the court knows that if he
finds the individual capable of being tried, he may have
to begin a trial with this individual representing
himself.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Scalia, I think
that the tests serve different purposes. The competency
threshold, as the Court has noted, is a minimal
threshold. It is designed to ferret out whether the
defendant has the minimal degree of rational
understanding to assist his counsel and to understand
what's happening.
And he then, if he wants to waive counsel,
has to have a knowing and intelligent waiver, which
means he has to understand what he's doing. But those
inquiries don't focus on whether he, in fact, could
carry out the substantially more demanding task, both
mentally and as far as the ability to communicate goes,
of presenting a case to the jury during a trial.
There are many examples of mentally ill
defendants whose world views may be substantially skewed
in many respects, but the competency threshold focuses
on whether they can understand the case in front of
them. For example, if you have a defendant who is on
trial for making certain specific threats against
identified people, he may have the ability to understand
what the charge is and to assist counsel in whether he
said those things and what he intended by them, even if
his world view in many respects is extremely skewed; he
has paranoid delusions; and his ability to communicate
coherently on his own is very diminished.
And that is why the competency threshold
does not fully address the very important interest that
a State has in presenting to the world that the trial is
a fair one.
This has both the dimension of actual
fairness as well as perceived fairness because if the
public sees the spectacle of a mentally ill defendant,
who may well be able to cooperate with counsel and with
the assistance of counsel get through a trial, attempt
to communicate to the jury on his own in a very
delusional way, it really casts the justice system into
disrepute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If it gets to be bad, the
court can terminate it and say, you know, you can't
represent yourself. We're going to bring in counsel.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Scalia, I think
under existing law that could not be done if the
Respondent's view of Faretta is adopted as an absolute
rule.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure, it could be done if
the trial is, indeed, turning into a farce.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think it depends on
what you mean by "turning into a farce." It is
well-established now that if the defendant actually
obstructs the proceeding, stands up out of order,
disregards the judge's procedural rulings and in --
violates the decorum of the courtroom,
self-representation can be terminated. And that, I
think, is an important fact that establishes that the
Faretta right is not an absolute right. But here
we're talking about turning it into a farce in a
different way. For example, in Colin Ferguson's trial
for murder in New York, he got up, and he told the jury
in his opening statement: I've been charged with 93
counts because it is the year 1993. If it were the year
1928, I would have been charged with 28 counts.
And that doesn't violate the decorum of the
room, but it really casts doubt on what is the State
doing here: Putting somebody on trial, having them
represent themselves with no lawyer, when that's the
mental ability that they have to understand what's going
on.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question:
Do you think the inability to speak English would be a
factor that the judge could take into account in making
this judgment?
MR. DREEBEN: No, I don't think so,
Justice Stevens. I think a translator could deal with a
non-English-speaking defendant. I think a defendant
with a speech impediment can be assisted in other ways.
We actually think that the Court could
approach this case by looking at the most acute phase of
this problem, in our view and experience, which is a
defendant who is mentally ill. Because then you have a
concrete connection, particularly with serious mental
illness, between the defendant's diagnosed state and the
abilities and capacities that he may have when he takes
the floor as his own lawyer.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could we have a rule that
even if you are highly competent, if you make the trial
into a farce, you forfeit your Faretta right?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, you certainly could,
Justice Kennedy. And I think that that would be an
important step in the right direction.
I think in cases where the judge has, as he
did in this case, a very firm foundation for
understanding that this defendant could not present a
coherent defense to the jury and, if allowed to
represent himself, would create a potential shambles --
not that the trial couldn't go forward in the sense
there would nobody courtroom decorum, but in the sense
that what the defendant would say to the jury would make
no sense.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why not just change
the rule about what you can do, once the trial is under
way? You say sometimes it's not a farce. It's just
that this person is obviously incapable of making a
coherent defense. Why not wait to see?
What I object to in the proposal is making
these judgments ex ante on the basis of -- I don't know
-- psychological testing or past behavior or anything
else.
Give it a try. The person wants to
represent himself. It's his constitutional right. If,
indeed, it turns out that this is turning into a sham,
fine, bring in a lawyer to represent him.
But doing it beforehand on the basis of your
prediction as to what the trial is going to turn into
seems to me not to give enough respect to an
individual's desire to represent himself.
MR. DREEBEN: I think to force the State to
have the train wreck occur, when the evidence is very
firm and reliable that it will occur, infringes the
State's interests in starting the trial from the
beginning in a coherent and orderly way and not
basically subjecting the defendant to the risk of an
unfair trial based on the defendant's own incompetence.
And this record is about as good as you are
going to get on that. The defendant's communications,
which are in the jury -- which are in the joint appendix
and which Justice Ginsburg has mentioned and they are
reproduced in the Petitioner's brief, show that although
the psychiatrists ultimately concluded that he could
work with his lawyer, when you put him on his own and
ask him to articulate anything to the judge, which he
did in great extent, it made no sense whatsoever.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And these were
communications made to the judge before the trial
started?
MR. DREEBEN: That's correct. And this
judge had also seen the defendant firsthand during the
first trial. There had been years of competency
proceedings. With the aid of medication, the defendant
was brought to an extent where he was competent to
assist his counsel. But that in no way gave him the
competency to actually carry out the trial. And this
judge, I think, did the responsible thing. Rather than
allow the defendant to sort of allow himself to commit
State-assisted suicide by going before a trial in a way
that had no capacity of producing a result that would
truly be regarded as fair, the judge said: I'm not
going to do it; I'm going to terminate
self-representation because I think that's in the best
interest of justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dreeben.
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Stancil.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK T. STANCIL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. STANCIL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The expressed premise of the Sixth Amendment
and of our adversarial system generally is that the
defense belongs to the accused and not to the State.
The defendant has the choice whether to exercise a
particular constitutional right or, as in Godinez, to
present no defense whatsoever. Eliminating the right of
self-representation based on concerns about a
defendant's courtroom ability violates that fundamental
principle. And importantly, the accused does not
surrender that control over his defense simply because
the State's judgment is that he'd be better served by
proceeding through counsel.
To the contrary, a lawyer may speak for his
client, not because he needs counsel, but only because
he has consented to the representation. And the
proposals that the State and the United States have
offered here are fundamentally inconsistent with that
bedrock principle of the Sixth Amendment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you argue that
the State has no interest to be considered in this
calculus? In other words, it is solely the interest of
the defendant in representing himself and that the State
has no interest in ensuring a credible process?
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. Faretta
expressly contemplated that in footnote 46. The Court
recognized the limitations on the right of
self-representation, to include the rules of courtroom
procedure, decorum, and standby counsel. Those are
perfectly adequate and indeed, when correctly enforced,
more than adequate to protect against the kind
of concern --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but an
individual doesn't have to know and appreciate the rules
of courtroom procedure to be judged competent to stand
trial.
MR. STANCIL: Correct. But he's held to
them if he makes the decision to proceed. And that's
the fundamental premise of this case, is that a
defendant who --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that's
suggesting to me that you give no weight to the State
interest. In other words, so long as he's held to those
rules, that's basing your determination solely on his
interest and no weight given to the State's interest in
ensuring that you have a trial where people are
observing the rules.
MR. STANCIL: Two responses, Your Honor.
First, the State's interest in fairness is -- I think
is -- assumes the question, if you will, or begs the
question, what is fair. Under the Sixth Amendment a
trial is fair if you have the choice whether to pursue a
certain right.
So in Godinez, for example, this Court
concluded that it was fundamentally fair for the
defendant to sit silent and to -- not to be held to any
higher competency determination for waiving his right to
counsel and proceeding pro se. This was in a capital
case no less. So, I think the State's concern that it
doesn't appear to be fair if the defendant isn't somehow
held to a higher standard of competency is -- is wrong.
The --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can I ask the
-- it's really the flip side of the question
Justice Scalia asked. Why shouldn't we be concerned
that if you have the same standard that trial courts are
going to elevate the competency showing beyond what
really is required?
In other words, if they have to have the
same standard, they don't want a proceeding where you've
got someone who -- you know, whatever the standard is --
is not going to be as competent or reasonably
represented as he would by a lawyer, so they're more
likely to find the person incompetent to stand trial in
the first place?
These are addressed to two different,
entirely different questions. And rather than having a
problem with merging the standards which results in one
of them being cheated, why don't we have two different
standards?
MR. STANCIL: Well, I assume you're speaking
about competency to stand trial under Dusky?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. STANCIL: Well, first of all, the States
have that option. That's clear. So, if the States are
concerned about the effects of this rule, that's always
been their choice. Certainly they're free to do so.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought your argument
is it's not a choice, that there is only one standard,
either you're competent or you're not competent? That
is, I thought your position is competency is a unitary
notion and your opponent's position is, no, there are
shades of competency.
MR. STANCIL: Justice Ginsburg, we're
speaking about the competency to stand trial. And I
think that was judge -- the Chief Justice's question.
JUSTICE SCALIA: When you say they have
their choice, you meant they have the choice of
elevating the standard that applies to the competency to
stand trial if they wish?
MR. STANCIL: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well then, why don't
they have the choice of elevating the standard for
ability to represent themselves in a coherent way at
trial?
MR. STANCIL: Because --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's what
understood Godinez to say, that you certainly don't have
to elevate your standard, but I didn't understand it to
say you can't.
MR. STANCIL: Because the Sixth Amendment
says once you get to the adversarial proceeding in
court, the State cannot cross to the other side of the
courtroom and second guess the defendant's decision.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it actually
doesn't say that.
MR. STANCIL: Well, with respect, Your
Honor, every Sixth Amendment decision that I'm aware of
does not let the court, in the name of second guessing
the defendant, whether a decision would benefit the
defendant come in and say: Well, for example, you may
not want to take the stand in your own defense, because,
well, look at you; you've got unsightly tattoos that
this jury may find offensive. The State cannot come in
and say: Well, this trial would be a farce if you take
the stand and so you're not competent to exercise that
right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me that
both sides are kind of raising these, taking the
arguments to extremes and they don't have to do that.
If you -- if you accept the fact that there can be a
higher standard than competency to stand trial, that
doesn't mean that the judge can say you can't make the
decision if you have tattoos.
MR. STANCIL: The logic I believe is the
same. They say the appearance of this is so unsightly
that we wouldn't -- that we can't allow it to go
forward. And I just don't think that logic has any
place in the Sixth Amendment.
To come back, if I may, to the statement in
Godinez, in Roman III of Godinez, it doesn't mean that
States are free to sever competency to stand trial from
the right of self-representation and raise one and not
the other. What it says is that States are free to
elaborate upon the standards for -- elaborate on the
Dusky standard, and it cites Medina, which is a case
about competency to stand trial. I think what it
contemplates, and quite sensibly, is if somebody comes
in and wants to self-represent and there are indicia
that that's a particularly bad decision, that you may
want to ask more questions to determine is he Dusky
competent, because that's what Dusky is about. It is
about decision-making.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this is a trial judge
who has a very practical, immediate concern. And he's
not looking at Dusky, not looking at Peretz. He says:
I have found that Mr. Edwards is able to stand trial
with the assistance of an attorney. I never made any
finding that he was -- that he was competent if he
didn't have that aid. I never found that he was
competent to defend himself. He's competent, but only
if he has a lawyer who is running the show.
That was the finding that the trial judge
made: That's my finding. Are you tell me to make that
finding I have to say that he's not competent to stand
trial?
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. That finding
is the essence of his legal error. He says: You are
Dusky competent, you have the decision-making capacity
to stand trial and in particular to exercise your other
rights, to plead guilty, to waive a trial by jury, to
take the stand in your own defense. But he says:
Because you lack these courtroom abilities, you're not
-- you're not competent somehow to exercise this
additional right.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you disagree with the
point that's made by the American Psychiatric
Association that competency is not a unitary concept,
that a person can be competent to assist an attorney at
trial but not competent to make all of the decisions and
perform in some minimally reasonable way the various
tasks that have to be performed during the course of a
trial?
MR. STANCIL: As a legal matter, yes. As a
medical matter, I'm in no position to challenge --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why shouldn't the law track
medicine? I mean, we're not -- we're interested in a
person having a fair trial.
MR. STANCIL: That might have been a fair
argument before Godinez, where the APA and other medical
organizations advanced this exact argument, and the
Court said -- and if you'll indulge me, I'd like to
quote -- it said that: "While it is undeniable that in
most criminal prosecutions defendants could be
better" -- "could better defend with counsel's guidance
than by their own unskilled efforts, a criminal
defendant's ability to represent himself has no bearing
upon his competence to choose self" --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I didn't think this
case has been decided by prior precedent. I thought
there was some opening here. Going back to what I think
I said in Martinez and Justice Kennedy said, we were --
I was interested in, and perhaps he was, in a few
empirical facts, because we'd heard lots of complaints
from trial judges who said this makes no sense at all.
Very disturbed people are being deprived and end up in
prison because they're disturbed rather than because
there guilty.
Now, I wanted to know the facts. And it
seemed to me we have a excellent, really fabulous --
that this has happened, and Professor Hashimoto seems to
have gone and written, done research, which we have in
front of us. As I read that research, I first learned
that actually the pro se defendants don't do a bad job
of defending themselves. And by and large, they do
surprisingly well. And so perhaps that eliminates some
of the concern.
But the other thing that it tells me is that
there is a small subclass of pro se defendants who may
in fact do badly. And we have in front of us one of
those individuals and that, therefore, a rule which
permitted a State to deal with this subclass of
disturbed people who want to represent themselves, who
could communicate with counsel, but can't communicate
with anybody else, that if we focus on that subclass and
accept the State's argument here, interestingly enough,
we've gone a long way to deal with a serious practical
problem, and we've advanced the cause of seeing that
individuals have a fair trial.
So I'd like you to comment on that, and that
was my reaction after reading that study.
MR. STANCIL: I'm not sure where to start,
Your Honor, but if I could, I'll start with the
practical problem.
It's been suggested here that there are --
there are no ways for trial judges to deal with trials
that may descend into farce, for example. I think
that's incorrect. Take for example the rules of
courtroom procedure. If a defendant stands up, a pro se
defendant, stands up and says something that's
irrelevant or prejudicial or argumentative in some way
that violates the very strict rules of courtroom
procedure, the State need only stand up and say,
objection; objection sustained; inquiry terminated. So
the idea that we're going to be listening to 20 or 30
minutes or hours of rants is I think overblown. Courts
have that tool.
Moreover, there's the additional tool of
standby counsel. So we're not talking about a road that
you have -- once you're committed to you're stuck with.
The court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you're
putting a heavy burden on the State to say, all right,
now -- and the prosecution -- to say, now we've got to
look out for what this guy is going to say, and now
we've got to appoint standby counsel. And I'm not sure
how your response deals with the guy who says: I was
indicted for 93 counts because it's 1993. I mean, is
the prosecutor supposed to stand up then and say:
Objection, that's ridiculous?
MR. STANCIL: Well, one, certainly the
State's rule has nothing to say about that either. I
mean, that's a perfectly lucid communication. Two, I
think the answer is yes. If he -- if he makes any
opening statement that the evidence will not support --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, that the State
has to incur these extra burdens?
MR. STANCIL: I don't think that's much more
of a burden than they do when they're facing a defense
lawyer.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you've presumed in
your answer to Justice Breyer -- I don't know if you
fully answered all of the questions he raised -- that
this defendant would immediately obey the objection.
That doesn't happen.
MR. STANCIL: And that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: They don't communicate.
It's two ships passing in the night or in the case of
some defendants about five ships passing in the night.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So -- so you're presuming
something that that's -- that's just inconsistent with
the reality. And you answered Justice Alito's question
to say well, it's a legal matter; if it's a medical
matter I don't comment. But it's a practical matter;
it's a commonsense matter. We know what goes on, and
what goes on is very costly to the State and to the
fairness of the trial.
MR. STANCIL: Justice Kennedy, the tool is
right in front of the Court in Illinois versus Allen.
If the defendant does not obey your direction, you have
to warn him; and if he continues in his disruptive
behavior or disobeying the court, you can take away his
Sixth Amendment right. In Illinois versus Allen, I
think it is very crucial --
JUSTICE BREYER: Your response to that, as
it was to me, I take it to be: Well, focusing on this
subclass, the judge has other ways of dealing with the
problem. My thought about that is, first, I don't know.
Maybe the damage is done by that point before the jury
or elsewhere.
And my second thought is, because I'm not
certain about whether your answer is right or wrong, nor
are any of us really, this is a perfect instance where
the States should experiment.
MR. STANCIL: Except that, Your Honor, it
undermines the fundamental premise of the Sixth
Amendment, which is it's his defense. So, for
example --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are there any psychiatric
studies that show how accurate psychiatric studies are?
(Laughter.)
MR. STANCIL: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that estimate, for
example, how accurately one can predict whether a
particular defendant will indeed be able to defend
himself?
MR. STANCIL: Not to my knowledge,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't think so.
MR. STANCIL: I believe the APA acknowledges
in its brief that there's not a lot of literature about
--
JUSTICE BREYER: There isn't on this, but of
course part of the job of being a psychiatrist or a
psychologist or a doctor is continuously to evaluate the
accuracy of studies. So if it's a general question, I
guess the question is of course there are.
MR. STANCIL: But. Well -- but -- but the
path to -- to a resolution that doesn't offend the Sixth
Amendment is to make the record. So, for example --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But Mr. Stancil, I mean,
you say make the record. You said a moment ago, have
standby counsel who can take over. It seems to me that
the -- that the trouble with these proposals is that by
the time the record is made, if by that you mean
courtroom performance, or by the time standby counsel is
required to take over, the damage is done.
And it -- it seems to me that a trial judge
in those situations who says, okay, I declare at this
point that the trial has become so farcical it cannot go
on like this, the trial judge at that point is -- has
got a damaged product in the part of the trial that has
already taken place. And the tough question, I think,
is not whether he can simply tell standby counsel to
take over, but whether anyone can take over without
declaring a mistrial at that point. And the cost of
mistrial is a cost in addition to the cost that the
State has been arguing for, that it should not be
regarded in the public eye as the sponsor of farces.
What do you say to the problem of the
likelihood that a mistrial is going to be the cost of
correcting or switching over once the -- once the damage
has been proven?
MR. STANCIL: Extraordinarily remote, for
two reasons. First, I think what trial courts probably
need is encouragement to enforce these rules against pro
se defendants that are -- that are at their disposal.
So an opinion from this Court that says, reaffirms,
you've got Illinois versus Allen and you don't have to
let it go on for 30 minutes. You can, you know, nip it
in the bud and you've got the rules of evidence and
rules of the procedure.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well -- suppose
the judge, the trial judge, says: Mr. Stancil, please
turn to page 15 of the blue brief. I have had
considerable communication with this defendant. Read
what it says there. Do I have to wait for this to be
repeated in the courtroom? "Listen to this case, the
foundations of my cause. The Criminal Rule 4. Court's
territory, acknowledged May 29, 2001, abandoned for the
young American citizen to bring a permissive
intervention acting as the forces to predict my future
disgrace by the court to motion young Americans to
gather against crime."
Now, that's not an isolated incident. This
record is full of that kind of statement coming from
this defendant.
MR. STANCIL: Justice Ginsburg, I'm very
glad you brought that up, because it illustrates two
problems with this -- with the armchair psychiatry that
the State is urging here.
First, this letter actually follows on the
heels of a motion that Ahmad Edwards filed under Indiana
Rule 4(c) that says under 4(c) you have to try him
within a year of charging, and I have been tried, I've
been sitting in confinement.
So when he says "Listen to this case, the
foundations of my cause, the Criminal Rule 4," that came
to the judge. I bet good money the judge knew what that
meant. Now, there are other things around it that I
grant you are problematic.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, take the rest of
the paragraph.
MR. STANCIL: Yes, but -- and if I may --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You have to stop. I
mean, you have given a reason that this might make
sense.
MR. STANCIL: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the judge says: Does
that means I have to sit here and every time he makes a
statement like that explain to the jury what he meant?
Then I'm becoming involved myself in a -- in a
consulting role, not as an impartial judge of this case
anymore, but as a kind of a facilitator of the
defendant.
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. If I may, two
points. First, to back up a step, we have no idea,
because the record is silent on this, whether when
Mr. Edwards wrote this he was continuing to take his
medication and receive therapy.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What difference does it
make?
MR. STANCIL: Because that's the reason --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Because the trial judge has
got a problem, and it doesn't matter whether he was on
medication or not on medication. He was saying things
like the things Justice Ginsburg has just read.
MR. STANCIL: Justice Souter, this defendant
was rendered competent to stand trial only by
psychiatric medication; and before taking away the right
that is -- that is inherent in the Sixth Amendment, the
judge has to make a record: Is he still competent to
stand trial or did he not take his medication this week
and that's why, that's why he slipped into incoherence?
If you try to square these communications
with Dr. Sena's report, the report that rendered him
competent to stand trial, it's irreconcilable. Dr.
Sena --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, a great -- frankly, a
great deal of psychiatric testimony is irreconcilable
with the facts. Psychiatric testimony can be found for
either side of any issue in cases like this.
MR. STANCIL: If that's -- if that's the
case, Justice Souter, then there may be an error in the
application of Dusky. But -- but once you're over the
Dusky hurdle that says he's lucid enough to understand
what's going on and to make the fundamental --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Stancil, can I ask
this question: Do you agree that at a certain point in
the trial it could become a farce and the judge could
declare a mistrial for this reason?
MR. STANCIL: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: If he did so, he's going
to have a second trial. Could he decide before the
second trial starts that the man has to have a lawyer or
could the man still demand the right to self-represent?
He's had to proceed -- he spoke to the one -- you know,
one mistrial. It seems to me that under your position
he'd have the right to a second bite at the apple.
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. There would
be a record in open court of his --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you've got a record
in open court here.
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor, with respect,
we do not. We have inconsistent pleadings.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, assume he had a
record in open court before the trial started that was
just as persuasive as events going sour during a trial.
MR. STANCIL: Well, again, I respectfully
submit that is not this case. But if you did have it, I
think you still have to give him the chance, assuming
he's Dusky-competent and he makes this waiver knowingly
and intelligently, to stand up in court and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't just have a
record in open court. You have the experience of a
trial in the past.
MR. STANCIL: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's more than just the
stuff that was on the record. You've had the experience
of a trial.
MR. STANCIL: As Justice Brennan's
concurring opinion in Illinois versus Allen explains,
that sort of misconduct can't --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, Allen was a
disruptive conduct case, where he was yelling and he was
put out of the court.
That's quite different from a defendant who
pretends to comply with the order of the court and then
repeatedly takes everything off track time after time.
That was not Allen and I don't think you can cite Allen
for the problem that most of these cases present.
MR. STANCIL: I respectfully disagree,
Justice Kennedy. Something is disrespectful toward the
court if it's a repeated violation of the court's
direction to keep it on track. And at the same time the
defendant is the one, I think it's not to be lost, that
suffers the prejudice from these concerns.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, there's a difference
between disrespectful and disruptive. And the Allen
case was disruptive. I mean, he was shouting, he was
yelling. Everything had to stop. That just doesn't
apply to the case we have here. It's inapplicable.
MR. STANCIL: Well, I agree that Mr. Edwards
-- the record is clear that he was certainly respectful
toward the court. But I think a far more limited
intrusion on the Sixth Amendment would to be say, if you
can't -- if you can't get something out that is
comprehensible, that's akin to an Illinois versus Allen
disruption; and after a certain record, it can be
revoked like the Sixth Amendment right at issue in
Allen.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did the trial judge in
this case cite the findings and the observations he made
during the competency hearing in open court as -- for
the support of the ruling?
MR. STANCIL: He referred seriatim to a list
of reports that he had considered.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What about the competency
hearing that was held in open court with the defendant?
MR. STANCIL: The -- it's my understanding
that the most recent, the actual hearing where he was
rendered competent, did not have a hearing with it.
There was a report from Dr. Sena dated July, '04, and on
that basis he was -- I believe there was an
order rendering --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this one other
question: Do you think the Faretta right includes a
right to have no standby counsel?
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. McKaskle made
that clear, and it was -- and in fact Faretta makes that
clear, as well, that the State can protect its interests
by having somebody right behind ready to stand in. And
I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you concede that if
the trial is not disruptive, the mere fact that this
fellow is making an incompetent defense or, indeed, may
be making no sense is justification for terminating the
trial? I mean, this person can plead guilty if he
wishes and that's perfectly okay. Can he not take the
lesser step of putting forward an incompetent defense?
The State is still going to have to plead --
to prove beyond a reasonable doubt before the case goes
to the jury that he committed the crime that he's
accused of, beyond a reasonable doubt. And I don't know
why the mere fact that his defense is incompetent or
even is making no sense would justify -- if that's what
he wants to do instead of pleading guilty, that's, it
seems to me, what the right of an individual consists
of.
MR. STANCIL: Justice Scalia, let me make it
clear that -- I don't know if I've made a concession
here. My response was in response to Justice Kennedy's
question about whether Allen is a fit here. I suggested
and -- and I do believe that at least expanding Allen to
encompass "incoherence" to mean "disrespect" would be a
lesser offense than throwing the baby out with the
bathwater.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. STANCIL: But if I may just return to
this fundamental --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Your position is it has to
be disruptive. If it's not disruptive, even if he's
making no sense, that's his choice, right?
MR. STANCIL: Yes. However, to be clear,
the court can cut him off. So if I -- if a pro se
defendant stands up and says, the men from Mar -- you
know, in his opening argument says, the men from Mars
told me to do this, objection sustained. The court may
do it sua sponte and cut it off. Here we're talking
about seconds, not minutes --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Of course, one way to
control these defendants is to say: Mr. Defendant, if
you persist in this irrelevant line of inquiry, the
court is going to consider whether or not you are
competent under the Indiana standard to conduct your
self-defense. That would get his attention.
MR. STANCIL: It would certainly be
preferable to what happened here, although I think it
still -- I think it still has the problem analytically
of being inconsistent with the nature of the Sixth
Amendment. But --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Stancil, I'm not sure
that I'm following your argument, Because if I
understand your most recent answers to these questions,
it is no longer your position that an individual who is
not disruptive, but merely incoherent and making the
trial farcical by his incoherent responses or actions --
it is no longer your position that an individual who is
merely incoherent could be forced in the midst a trial,
after this has been demonstrated, to accept standby
counsel to manage the trial. And, yet a moment ago I
thought that was one of the fail-safe devices that you
were arguing for.
MR. STANCIL: I think -- let me be perfectly
precise. I think it has to get to the Illinois versus
Allen point of being --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So to the disruptive point?
MR. STANCIL: No. If I may, Your Honor,
this is what Illinois versus Allen says, and I think
this will elucidate the distinction: "It has to be so
disorderly, disruptive, and disrespectful to the court
that his trial cannot go forward." So what Illinois
versus Allen says, we can't have somebody sitting here
that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Somebody who is totally
polite to the Court, who does not scream and yell, who
talks only when he is allowed to talk, but talks total
and complete nonsense, can never be replaced, in your
view, by a standby counsel in the middle of the trial
after this has been shown to be the way he's acting;
isn't that correct?
MR. STANCIL: I believe we're dealing with
-- two responses.
JUSTICE SOUTER: How about "yes" or "no"?
(Laughter.)
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. But I believe
we are dealing with a null set, because somebody who
can't say these things isn't Dusky-competent and hasn't
made a knowing and intelligent waiver. If he can't get
two words out to the jury -- and here Mr. Edwards, if
you read the oral colloquy --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, now you're falling
back on the very psychiatric evaluation in the first
part of the trial that you disparage in the second.
MR. STANCIL: No, Justice Kennedy. The
Dusky analysis is well settled, and there's a lot of --
there's a lot of research that goes into that. He was
rendered Dusky-competent to make these decisions. But
the idea that there's a defendant out there who has this
rational understanding and enough decision-making
capacity under Dusky to plead guilty and to waive any
number of his constitutional rights is the same
defendant who turns and says complete gibberish to --
JUSTICE SOUTER: In your judgment, was the
Dusky determination in this case erroneous?
Should he have been held incompetent to
stand trial because of the nonsensical things that
Justice Ginsburg just read?
MR. STANCIL: I think the record -- on the
current state of the record, yes, because his --
JUSTICE SOUTER: He should have been found
incompetent.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except, as you say, we
don't know whether he was on his medication or not.
MR. STANCIL: Correct. This defendant was
rendered competent after, I think, four and a half years
of intense -- after a finding of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I still don't know your
"yes" or "no" answer. Do you say he should have been
found incompetent or that he should have been competent
based on your present assessment of the record?
MR. STANCIL: I believe it comes and goes.
There were times when he was and times when he was not.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was he competent to stand
trial, in your view as you now understand this record?
MR. STANCIL: At the time of trial, yes, he
was. He made, I think, lucid statements to the judge.
If I may, the judge asked him at his first trial, well,
what about voir dire? He says, voir dire, that's how
you screen out jurors. You get ten charges apiece or
ten strikes apiece. That's perfectly correct. He is
asked how you admit a videotape into evidence.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: There are all kinds of
nuts who could get 90 percent on the bar exam.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Stancil, you do agree
that the basic precedent on which you rely, Faretta, you
would be -- you are asking for an extension of it
because that case starts out with a defendant who is
described as literate, competent, understanding.
MR. STANCIL: No, Justice Ginsburg. And, if
I may explain, that selection from Faretta refers to
whether his waiver of counsel was knowing and
intelligent. It does not refer to whether he is
competent to exercise the right.
To the contrary, Faretta specifically
contemplates that unskilled, illiterate and those of
-- and I quote -- "feeble intellect" will exercise this
right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And was there anything in
the record showing that he had, that Faretta had, mental
delusions, mental disease?
MR. STANCIL: Not that I'm aware of, but in
Godinez there was. This was a defendant who essentially
volunteered out of depression -- volunteered for the
death penalty. He waived counsel, pled guilty, and sat
silent at the defense table, refusing to put on any
mitigating evidence while the State sought the death
penalty.
And this Court held that is not
fundamentally unfair because he had had the choice --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the judicial posture
there was a little different. It was a question of what
the State had to do, not what the State could do.
MR. STANCIL: Correct, Justice Ginsburg.
But the reasoning that the State urges here is precisely
the reason -- reasoning that was rejected in Godinez.
They said, well, he's not able enough to perform -- this
is what the defendant said -- I'm not able enough to
perform these tasks, so you shouldn't have let me do it.
And this Court said -- again if I -- pardon for
repeating myself. If I may --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your thought.
MR. STANCIL: A criminal defendant's ability
to represent himself has no bearing upon his competence
for self-representation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Stancil.
Mr. Fisher, you have four minutes remaining.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Fisher, what if the
defendant here promised to sit silent during the trial
as the defendant did in Godinez? Would that be -- would
that render everything okay?
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS M. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Well, I think the defendant in
Godinez was pleading guilty. I think here if you have a
defendant where it might create a different question if
there was some reliable that evidence that that might be
true. But it would be hard to imagine that if a trial
court would have to take the defendant's word for it
entirely, that he would sit silent.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But, he could certainly sit
silent. Having decided to represent himself, he could,
if he wished, just sit silent.
MR. FISHER: I think it does present a
different situation if the defendant sits silent and
relies only on the reasonable doubt instruction than to
have a defendant who is going to present an actual
defense.
Here I think you have got a defendant who,
while competent at the time of trial, the day before, a
few days before trial wrote a letter to the court
saying: Dear Judge Hawkins, I want to extend the court
power for training for this enormously wide defense to
exercise also U.S. continent five as it becomes more
advanced parts differently to structure First Amendment.
Trial to do your best old man to isolate the young boy
in me at this.
So I think we have got a clear example of
someone who could communicate with counsel as the Sena
report indicated.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe he writes badly.
MR. FISHER: Well, no. I think even in the
statements in open court you have got a lack of
coherence and lack of understanding. And counsel was
there, I think, to usher through some of those
statements that made system somewhat comprehensible.
But there's, I think, every reason for the court to look
at these writings and to also fall back on what he had
seen in open court to come to the conclusion that this
was somebody who couldn't be relied phenomenon
communicate coherently.
I think relying on the Allen standard is a
mistake for the additional reason in addition to not
specifically covering this kind of scenario, it also
might then lead to circumstances where trial courts are
tightening up the Allen standard for all defendants
whose wish to represent themselves.
So even when you don't have concerns about
this kind of competency, the courts are going to be in a
position where they look at this Court's precedent and
say, oh, we're supposed to enforce Allen strictly and we
have got a rules violation, so therefore, we have to
override the self-representation request. And I think
that that's probably not what the Court would want to do
just to provide that as a vehicle for dealing with
dependents such as Ahmad Edwards.
Now, I think it is also important to bear in
mind that -- that we can speak about fairness in trial
and the appearance of fairness in trial and not be
speaking, strictly speaking about due process, about the
Due Process Clause. And that's the point of the wheat
case. We don't have to think that the State's concerns
for fairness are limited by the Due Process Clause. We
can acknowledge that there are other circumstances that
courts -- that trial courts in states can take into
account when they are dealing with Sixth Amendment
rights. And there, of course, it was the Sixth
Amendment right --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How fair does a trial seem
to the public where the defendant stands up and says,
Your Honor, I want to represent myself? I do not want
this attorney. I want to defend myself. And the judge
said, sit down, we have a psychological evaluation of
you. You can't represent yourself.
How fair does that seem to the public?
MR. FISHER: I think it -- I think many in
the public would think that that was fair. That, in
fact, the court is taking care of a defendant in those
circumstances.
Now, that is counterbalanced by the Faretta
right. But I think courts -- State courts and State
systems should be in the position of taking into
consideration what they think appears fair in that kind
of circumstance.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I take it standard
competency principles laid down by this Court require
that the defendant be present and that he testify if
requested. And the trial judge must question that
defendant when competency comes up in the presence of
the court.
MR. FISHER: Right. And I think there are
opportunities, then, to be concerned about competency
based on psychiatric reports that could lead to a Dusky
determination in addition to determination that we're
seeking.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Fisher. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m. , the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
addition 40:21 15:6 17:5 appreciate 28:7
58:20 26:25 27:17 approach 23:19 B
additional 33:23 28:24 31:9,16 area 11:5 baby 48:20
19:13,18 address 21:19 39:6 40:4 arguing 16:25 32:13 34:24
20:4 addressed 5:4 43:20 46:20,24 40:22 50:7 43:6 51:12
29:24 49:20 56:1 argument 1:12 56:14
27:7 31:2 adequate 28:3,4 57:17,19 2:2,10 3:3,6 bad 8:7 15:19,19
54:18 adequately American 33:25 17:8 18:1 16:13 22:5
19:25 admit 53:1 Americans 34:13,14 35:24 badly 35:18 56:7
21:25 adopt 20:4 41:22 49:6,22 55:3 balance 13:12
39:14 adopted 7:14 amicus 1:19 2:6 argumentative balancing 12:6
22:10 18:3 36:14 bar 53:3
58:25 advanced 34:14 14:21 51:15 armchair 42:4 27:6 52:15
advantage 4:15 49:18 asked 29:13 basic 53:6
17:9 advocating 12:6 52:13 assessment basis 3:25 24:22
35:24 agree 14:22 38:6 assist 8:2 20:22 bathwater 48:21
19:15 44:13 answers 49:23 21:13 26:7 bear 57:8
Ahmad 1:6 3:12 24:22 assistance 22:1 54:19
10:15 16:17 anymore 43:3 assisted 23:17 43:1
ALITO 14:23 appeal 4:14 assumes 28:23 begs 28:23
Alito's 38:6 appear 29:8 attempt 22:1 behalf 1:16,18
38:17 41:8 18:20 32:9 attorney 33:6 3:7 18:2 26:22
46:4,13,22,25 APPEARAN... authority 7:15 behavior 5:13
50:13,17 56:18 appears 58:9 8:9,10 believe 11:16
allow 8:14 9:23 apple 44:23 available 16:22 39:19 47:13
17:1 18:14 54:17,21 58:22 36:23 48:7 complete 50:22
34:23 38:1 31:1 49:2 54:5 3:14 7:16,18 complicated
48:6,8 43:2 44:8 45:9 choose 34:21 10:22,24 11:1 comply 5:12
57:13 58:23,24 8:12 56:21 35:22,22 37:25 concede 47:23
38:19 casts 22:3 23:5 claiming 4:14 8:17 9:1 37:11 35:15
cause 36:1 41:18 clarity 5:25 41:15 concerned 10:21
39:20 caution 7:13 clear 5:8 13:14 5:15,16 25:16 29:13 30:9
certain 16:21 14:14 30:8 25:25 43:24 58:18
39:1 44:13 48:15 49:3 11:17 18:11 16:16 27:6
26:6 42:3 certainly 3:24 clearer 12:22 competency 57:13
46:18 coherent 5:15 20:18 21:8,18 29:3
charged 23:1,3 21:17 56:17 58:18 conduct 4:22
33:17 Chief 3:3,8 5:19 come 31:19,22 29:20 30:13,13 42:10
8:25 9:5 10:23 32:13 56:15 31:24 32:25 conflicts 15:9
26:8 28:6,14 29:11 comment 36:3 47:11 49:14 consider 4:23
22:7 26:7 13:9,10,22 55:13 57:21 58:4,13
29:6 35:22 36:19 41:4 9:14,15 12:11 defendants 17:5
40:7,10,18 57:16 58:7,7 28:11 31:12,16 34:17 35:12,17
47:6 53:12,25 56:5 12:4 41:18 decisions 12:13 49:11 56:22
25:1 27:4 counterbalanc... create 13:17 decision-maki... 25:14,16 27:7
58:6 24:11 55:7 33:1,17 51:19 31:12 34:20
course 34:5 crime 41:23 declaring 40:20 defense 8:23
53:16 49:10 57:18 criminal 34:17 8:20 11:22 24:10,20
3:10,15,16,23 42:12 54:18 23:4 24:13 33:20 37:17
15:8,10 18:6 18:3 39:14 57:23 degenerating
20:13,19 22:6 cut 49:4,8 3:21 5:12 6:18 degree 18:9
27:24 29:2 D 12:13 15:15 deliberately
30:24 49:4,7,13 55:21 26:10 27:3,21 demonstrated
50:25 50:15,20 54:4 days 55:22 28:13 29:4,8 50:4
54:9 54:15 55:10,22 deal 7:25 13:25 31:18,19 36:12 demonstrates
courtroom 6:19 38:21 51:1,6 43:4,17 46:1 demonstration
15:9 28:1,8 31:12 Dear 55:23 51:22 52:9 deny 13:18
18:24 33:21 36:12,15 death 53:25 54:2 53:8,23 54:13 denying 19:2,20
40:10 41:17 decide 7:2 44:18 54:25 55:1,5,7 Department
22:1 courts 6:1,2 decided 34:23 55:16,18,20 1:18
disorderly 5:13 33:4,17 44:9 enforced 28:3 29:2 31:19
disregards ensuring 27:22 excellent 35:8
disrespect 48:19 Edwards 1:6 3:4 55:11 exercise 27:3
29:5 disruptive 38:15 46:17 51:9 erroneous 51:24 48:18
58:20,20 45:24 46:13,14 57:7 error 14:14,18 experience
49:25 50:11,15 effect 20:5 44:8 experiment 39:3
46:12 doctor 39:24 effectuate 12:14 14:15 17:7 expressed 26:25
22:24 25:4 9:18 established expressly 27:24
30:2 doubt 11:1 23:5 efficiently 13:19 18:11 extend 55:23
54:7 55:7 48:6,8 55:17 efforts 34:19 establishes extension 53:7
doubts 10:14 either 15:25 22:21 extent 25:23
drawn 11:22 32:18 13:25 14:1 41:3
46:9 2:5 17:25 18:1 elevating 30:22 17:20 eye 40:23
20:8,17 22:8 eliminates 35:14 evidence 25:9 F
24:4 25:8 26:2 27:5 53:1 54:2 55:8 faced 6:3
17:9 due 57:11,12,14 empirical 35:2 24:22 facing 37:17
11:6 12:1 48:19 exactly 6:2 10:16 21:2
47:19,24 fellow 47:25 focusing 38:20 getting 11:4 greater 12:25
58:4 Ferguson's following 49:22 gibberish 17:16 grounds 13:23
15:5 finding 33:7,11 foremost 12:24 42:19,23 43:16 35:6 48:2,11
26:13 33:12,13,15 forfeit 24:3 52:2 53:5,10 51:20 53:25
29:3 52:11 formulate 8:23 53:19 54:6,9 55:6
34:11,12 findings 47:2 10:13 give 8:4 24:25 guy 37:3,5
57:20 finds 20:14 formulation 5:6 25:6 28:15
fine 25:3 5:7 45:10 H
17:2 firm 24:8 25:10 32:11 48:4 42:20 happen 4:4 5:19
21:23 first 3:4 12:24 50:16 glad 42:3 37:23
28:22 15:8 26:4 found 33:5,8 go 14:4 24:12 happened 6:17
57:9,10 28:22 29:23 44:5 52:5,14 32:10 40:14 19:25 35:9
30:7 35:11 foundation 24:8 41:9 50:16 49:17
21:4 firsthand 26:3 free 30:10 32:15 55:1,6 harm 20:9
Fisher 1:15 2:3 32:17 goes 21:4 38:9 harmless 14:21
4:16 5:21 4:2,21 5:8,23 35:11,18 38:13 51:16 52:16 Hawkins 55:23
10:7 6:16,23 7:10 full 41:25 going 4:19 6:24 hear 3:3
16:1,4 7:12,24 8:11 fully 21:19 7:8 9:6 11:19 heard 35:2
19:14 9:4,10 10:8 37:21 12:14,17 13:22 hearing 47:3,8
11:4,21 12:23 fundamental 13:23 14:25 47:10,11
31:23 13:21 14:9,12 27:7 28:12 17:13 22:7 hearsay 9:2,21
44:14 14:19,22 15:3 39:5 44:11 23:8 25:5,16 heavy 37:1
40:14 54:23,24 55:3 27:16 29:3 36:18 37:3 29:4,9 47:8
55:5,15 56:8 54:5 40:25 44:11,17 51:25 54:4
10:19 fit 48:17 18:18 49:13 55:18 29:9 32:5
13:13 five 38:2 55:25 future 41:21 56:25 highly 16:3,19
24:3 flexibility 17:2 good 25:15 24:2
47:16,19 flip 29:12 G 42:13 Honor 27:23
floor 23:25 G 3:1 Government 28:21 31:16
focus 21:2 35:23 gather 41:23 19:1 33:15 36:6
57:22 incapable 24:19 inquiries 21:2 isolated 41:24 justice 1:18 3:3
43:6 43:23 48:19 19:24 9:24 12:18 14:23 15:13,25
incoherent instruction 13:20 14:6 16:3,18 17:6
51:25 52:6,14 51:8 53:13 41:13,13 42:13 25:24 26:16,17
41:8 27:16 38:5 45:12 43:13,21 44:14 28:6,14 29:11
46:22 45:4 49:19 intended 21:14 47:1 52:21,22 29:13 30:6,11
incorrect 12:19 intense 52:11 55:23 57:23 30:17,20,25
13:8,11 42:7 28:16,18,18,22 22:18 39:8,12,17,18
Indianapolis 35:1 14:15 23:13 41:12 42:2,16
indicia 32:22 interests 3:16 15:20,21 24:22 44:3,8,12,17
20:15 28:7 47:20 July 47:12 46:12 47:1,7
21:19 50:2 8:21 jury 3:15 4:6,10 48:16,22,25
24:6 individuals intervention 4:14 6:6 7:17 49:10,21 50:11
35:19 36:2 41:21 8:24 10:15,21 50:19 51:3,11
25:7 intrusion 46:20 15:24 16:14 52:5,7,12,18
inefficiencies irreconcilable 22:2,25 24:10 54:6,9,17,21
23:11 inevitable 20:5 irrelevant 36:14 31:22 33:19 56:7 57:20
inherent 43:20 isolate 56:2 48:7 51:9 Justice's 30:19
20:13 42:11 Martinez 12:5 midst 50:3
L literate 53:9 matter 1:11 8:21 minimal 20:19
33:21 little 54:7 34:8 38:7,8,8,9 minimally 34:4
14:17,20 laid 58:12 20:10 28:16 mean 7:5 9:6 misconduct
16:3,18 language 8:9 35:25 11:7,14,16 45:22
25:24 large 35:13 longer 49:24 19:6,10 22:15 mistake 56:19
37:19,25 larger 17:5 50:2 32:6,14 34:10 mistrial 40:20
45:1 Laughter 7:21 look 12:4 14:13 37:6,11 40:5,9 40:21,25 44:15
46:7,12 38:3 39:10 19:19 31:21 42:20 46:14 44:22
49:10 51:4 53:4 37:3 56:13 48:2,19 mitigating 54:2
52:12 law 22:9 34:9 57:1 meaningful 13:2 mockery 4:7 5:1
53:2 lawyer 8:3 10:1 looking 12:3 means 8:15,16 moment 40:6
10:12 13:20 17:19 23:19 21:1 42:24 50:5
25:21 27:12 lost 46:10 42:14,25 motion 19:2
14:3 37:18 44:19 39:20 51:15,16 38:7 murder 22:25
28:4 lawyers 7:20 lots 35:2 medication 26:5 myriad 20:2
41:25 lay 15:15 low 18:10 43:9,15,15,19
56:20,25 lead 56:21 58:19 lucid 37:11 43:22 52:8 N
learned 35:11 44:10 52:21 medicine 34:10 N 2:1,1 3:1
53:2 legal 10:10 M memory 19:24 nature 49:19
10:1,3,25 legitimate 11:6 making 13:25 23:8,22 53:20 necessary 3:17
13:2,6 lesser 48:4,20 14:1 17:7 53:21 need 4:4 10:8
17:7 22:6 letter 42:6 55:22 21:11 23:12 mentally 18:8 36:16 41:5
28:7 level 3:11 6:5,5 24:19,21 47:25 21:4,6,24 needed 18:13
35:7 8:1,12 9:11 48:1,10 49:2 23:21 needs 7:4 8:8
38:9,22 11:8,15 17:13 49:25 mentioned 27:13
44:21 likelihood 40:25 man 17:14 19:6 25:18 never 33:6,8
49:6 limitations 44:19,20 56:2 mere 47:24 48:9 50:22
27:25 manage 50:5 merely 49:25 New 22:25
53:12 46:19 57:14 March 1:9 merging 30:1 nip 41:9
line 11:21 15:16 26:21 15:24 nonsensical 52:1
39:16 linking 20:12 Martians 10:25 MICHAEL 1:17 23:16
30:15 options 16:22 28:19 35:4,21 point 5:22 10:9 presenting 21:5
51:10 Peretz 33:4 44:13 50:10,11 presumed 37:19
22:17 perfectly 28:3 pointed 18:15 pretends 46:2
organizations 34:4 54:12,14 5:14 30:14,15 principles 58:12
37:8,22 overall 14:15 performed 50:2 57:1 58:8 pro 5:20 29:6
overblown 18:13 34:5 possibility 6:24 35:12,17 36:12
5:18 permitted 35:20 posture 54:6 57:5
paragraph 55:4 50:9 procedure 28:2
36:23 pardon 54:15 phase 23:19 predict 39:13 proceed 8:15
44:9 part 11:2 39:23 phenomenon 41:21 9:25 13:19
47:3,8 participate 9:7 pick 19:12 preferable proceeding 4:24
particular 27:4 place 29:23 49:17 16:20 22:17
37:13 particularly 7:4 play 17:14 prejudicial 31:10
15:22 18:8 played 13:1 36:14 proceedings
parts 56:1 48:5 51:20 28:12 39:5 proceeds 4:24
path 40:3 55:6 present 4:6 9:15 process 10:2
54:3 please 3:9 18:6 24:9 27:5 46:5 57:11,12,14
39:25 40:1,17 reasonable 8:1,2 render 4:25 55:2 respect 17:19
55:7 58:14 reasonably 51:17 52:10 respectful 46:18
12:1 15:10 reasoning 54:10 repeated 41:17 45:8 46:6
47:20 49:23 REBUTTAL repeating 54:16 1:22 2:9 5:4
39:8,9 R recognizing represent 4:17 responses 28:21
44:4,5 R 1:17 2:5 3:1 12:7 6:11 9:14 10:2 50:1 51:2
58:19 18:1 record 4:3 5:16 14:7 15:15 responsible 26:9
32:16 41:25 43:7,21 23:7 24:11 restarted 7:4
37:21 45:14,18 46:18 34:20 35:21 26:12
57:24 rants 36:19 refer 53:13 representation reversed 13:23
rational 16:3 refers 53:11 19:2,21 27:14 reviewed 14:14
40:23 51:19 regard 7:6 15:4 18:23 29:21 revoked 46:24
58:1,3 reaction 36:4 16:12 representing 4:5 ridiculous 11:19
reading 36:4 relatively 18:10 25:19 7:16 8:9 9:8,9
18:11 reliable 13:4 require 9:1 24:3,6 25:1
48:4 real 15:18 relied 56:16 required 29:16 29:5 31:25
43:19 S 2:1 3:1 self 8:10 19:2,20 side 8:6 29:12 44:3,8 49:21
46:24 sat 53:25 34:21 31:11 44:6 50:11,19 51:3
satisfy 18:10 self-defense sides 32:2 51:23 52:5
49:2 saying 43:15 10:17,24 11:24 silent 29:4 43:7 speak 23:11
57:19 55:23 49:15 54:1,25 55:11 27:12 57:9
says 10:3 31:10 self-represent 55:13,14,16 speaking 30:4
57:18 33:20 36:13 self-represent... 12:12 27:9 speaks 17:14
8:25 9:5 50:13,17 51:22 19:3 22:20 55:14 57:24 53:15 56:20
11:14 52:23 57:21 26:15 27:6 sits 55:16 spectacle 21:24
26:17,20 Scalia 3:17 4:12 28:1 32:16 sitting 42:10 speech 8:7 23:17
28:6,14 6:7,21 7:7,11 54:20 57:4 50:17 spoke 44:21
30:6,25 7:18,22 9:20 Sena 44:2 47:12 situation 55:16 sponsor 40:23
32:1 14:5,11 18:15 56:5 situations 40:13 sponte 49:8
37:14 19:4,11,12,16 Sena's 43:25 Sixth 15:6 17:5 square 43:24
58:22 20:3,9,17 22:5 sense 12:5 24:12 26:25 27:17 Stancil 1:21 2:8
29:13 30:20 35:3 42:21 32:12 38:17 27:23 28:10,21
7:1,5,12 52:7 54:24 seriatim 47:5 skewed 21:7,15 36:5 37:9,16
9:2,21 55:12 56:7 serious 23:22 skills 5:15,16 37:24 38:12
12:10 57:20 35:25 slipped 43:23 39:4,11,16,19
Scalia's 5:6 serve 19:23 small 35:17 40:2,5 41:3,13
15:4 scenario 56:20 20:18 smoothly 4:24 42:2,18,22
24:1,17 scream 50:20 served 19:20 solely 27:20 43:5,12,17
35:19 screen 52:24 27:10 28:17 44:7,12,16,24
41:18 se 5:20 29:6 set 17:5 51:6 Solicitor 1:15,17 45:3,8,16,20
35:12,17 36:12 settled 51:15 somebody 10:14 46:6,17 47:5,9
11:13 38:25 44:18,19 sham 25:2 51:6 56:16 50:8,12 51:1,5
44:23 51:13 shambles 16:20 somewhat 56:12 51:14 52:3,9
41:5 seconds 49:9 24:11 sorry 17:4 52:16,20 53:5
57:3 see 4:15,19 12:5 ships 38:1,2 sort 4:22 8:13 53:10,22 54:9
seeing 36:1 show 11:18 15:18 26:10 stand 11:17 28:8
44:1 30:7,8 32:15 48:17 taken 40:17 4:21,23 6:16
47:21 32:17 39:3 suggesting 7:6 takes 23:24 46:3 6:20 7:19,24
57:16 7:13 9:12 15:4 talk 50:21 8:11 10:9,13
14:5,8 14:23 16:18,21 suggests 6:23 12:10,12 17:8 12:6,10,15,23
17:18 18:18 25:11 suicide 26:11 22:23 36:22 13:10,16,21
29:9,14 27:10 28:18,22 supervising 13:8 49:8 14:9,9 15:3,5
30:12 29:7 35:24 support 37:13 talks 8:1 50:21 15:10,17 16:2
31:1,7 37:10 57:13 47:4 50:21 16:7,9,15,24
49:14 State-assisted supporting 1:19 task 21:3 16:25 17:17
58:11 26:11 2:7 18:4 tasks 18:13 20:2 18:15,25 20:8
32:18 48:4 41:12 tattoos 31:21 22:14,21 23:11
36:22 23:10,15 44:12 37:7 57:2 tell 6:1 33:12 24:5,7 25:8
40:7,10 44:17 45:5 Supreme 1:1,12 40:18 26:9,15 28:22
47:17 47:15 7:14 13:7,11 tells 35:16 29:7 30:19
stop 42:19 46:15 sure 6:8 10:2 ten 52:24,25 32:11,20 34:22
49:5 strict 36:15 36:5 37:4 22:6 26:14 37:12,16 38:18
strictly 57:2,11 49:21 terminated 39:18 40:17
45:6 structural 14:18 35:14 19:2 48:1 47:16,22 49:17
studies 39:9,9 49:7 terribly 15:11 52:21 55:5,6
19:19 study 36:4 system 12:18,25 test 7:7,10,11,22 56:8,11,13,18
23:5,23 stuff 45:18 13:4 22:3 27:1 8:6 19:4,5,17 57:4,8,13 58:2
27:2,15 sua 49:8 56:12 20:4,6 58:2,3,7,9,17
28:15 subclass 35:17 systematic 7:1 testify 58:13 thinking 10:19
35:20 35:20,23 38:21 systems 58:8 testimony 44:4,5 thinks 11:2
37:1,14 subjecting 25:13 testing 24:23 17:14 19:8
40:22 submit 45:9 T tests 20:18 THOMAS 1:15
47:20 submitted 58:23 T 1:21 2:1,1,8 Thank 17:24 2:3,11 3:6 55:3
52:4 54:2 58:25 26:21 26:17,19 54:21 thought 6:22
58:7 substantial table 54:1 58:22 8:19 30:11,14
10:14 12:1 taint 4:10,12 6:6 theory 11:25 34:23 38:22,25
37:13 21:3,7 take 23:12 31:20 thing 4:23 10:5 threaten 12:10
42:25 success 4:14 31:23 33:20 26:9 35:16 16:10
52:21 sufficient 5:13 40:7,11,19,19 21:14 42:14 threshold 20:19
19:1,19 42:16 43:8,22 43:15,16 51:7 20:20 21:8,18
18:2 27:15 suggested 36:8 57:16 58:11 think 4:3,9,10 tightening 56:22
42:24 43:18,22 44:1 39:5 videotape 53:1 35:25 36:14
52:20 44:14,18,19 understand 5:2 view 15:9 19:16 49:10 50:24
45:6,7,15,19 5:5 9:2,8 20:22 21:15 22:10 ways 23:17 36:9
55:9,21,22 8:2 18:10 violates 22:19 weight 28:15,18
42:9 undertake 13:12 53:24,24 9:10,11 10:18
4:3,4,6 try 18:14 24:25 United 1:1,12,19 41:16 34:10,10 36:18
5:16,21 42:8 43:24 2:6 18:2 27:15 waiting 4:15,15 36:22 49:8
trying 10:22 unlimited 15:4 waive 20:24 51:1 57:2
7:2 9:7,14 11:15 16:14 unsightly 31:21 33:19 51:20 58:20
10:7 turn 3:22 4:16 32:9 waived 53:25 we've 4:3 35:25
12:13 19:14 25:5 unskilled 34:19 waiver 4:22 14:2 36:1 37:2,4
41:14 53:16 20:25 45:11 whatsoever
turned 5:21 6:18 unstructured 51:8 53:12 25:23 27:5
15:5 turning 3:24 15:22 waiving 29:5 wheat 15:7 17:1
6:14 22:13,15 unwieldy 4:6 want 6:1 10:2,20 57:12
22:23 25:2 17:18 13:14 16:4 wide 55:24
20:1,2 turns 10:7 25:2 urges 54:10 29:18 31:20 wild 15:11
21:5,11 51:22 urging 42:5 32:24 35:21 wish 30:23
22:1,13 two 20:13 28:21 usher 56:11 55:23 57:5,22 56:23
23:6 29:24 30:2 U.S 55:25 57:22,23 wished 55:14
37:11 38:1 wanted 35:7 wishes 48:3
41:4 42:3 43:5 V wanting 14:3 witnesses 9:9
28:9 51:2,9 v 1:5 6:19 wants 9:17 word 55:10
29:14 vague 7:22 10:16,24 16:20 words 15:21
30:5,18 U vagueness 7:25 20:24 24:25 27:20 28:16
31:3,23 ultimately 25:20 value 20:12 32:22 48:11 29:17 51:9
unable 6:13 various 34:4 warn 38:15 work 25:21
15:22 vehicle 57:6 Washington 1:8 world 5:24 10:9
34:3 undeniable ventured 3:16 1:18,21 19:6,7 21:7,15
35:3 34:16 versus 3:4 38:13 way 13:2 22:3 21:20
38:11 underlying 11:6 38:17 41:8 22:24 24:18 worry 20:3
12:11 45:21 46:22 25:12 26:7,11 worse 7:24
9
53:3
47:12
1:5 3:4
1:13 3:2
58:24
17:10 41:14
17:11
2:7
23:3
23:2 37:6
36:18
41:19
1:9
1:9 2:9
23:3
41:19
2:4
36:18 41:9
