IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, :
ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 07-290
DICK ANTHONY HELLER. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 18, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
WALTER DELLINGER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Petitioners.
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the United States, as amicus curiae.
ALAN GURA, ESQ., Alexandria, Va.; on behalf of the
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
WALTER DELLINGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
as amicus curiae 27
ALAN GURA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 48
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
WALTER DELLINGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 81
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument today in Case 07-290, District of Columbia
versus Heller.
Mr. Dellinger.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WALTER DELLINGER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. DELLINGER: Good morning, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
The Second Amendment was a direct response
to concern over Article I, Section 8 of the
Constitution, which gave the new national Congress the
surprising, perhaps even the shocking, power to
organize, arm, and presumably disarm the State militias.
What is at issue this morning is the scope and nature of
the individual right protected by the resulting
amendment and the first text to consider is the phrase
protecting a right to keep and bear arms. In the
debates over the Second Amendment, every person who used
the phrase "bear arms" used it to refer to the use of
arms in connection with militia service and when Madison
introduced the amendment in the first Congress, he
exactly equated the phrase "bearing arms" with, quote,
"rendering military service." We know this from the
inclusion in his draft of a clause exempting those with
religious scruples. His clause says "The right of the
people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed, a
well armed and well regulated militia being the best
security of a free country, but no person religiously
scrupulous of bearing arms shall be compelled to render
military service in person."
And even if the language of keeping and
bearing arms were ambiguous, the amendment's first
clause confirms that the right is militia-related.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you're right,
Mr. Dellinger, it's certainly an odd way in the Second
Amendment to phrase the operative provision. If it is
limited to State militias, why would they say "the right
of the people"? In other words, why wouldn't they say
"state militias have the right to keep arms"?
MR. DELLINGER: Mr. Chief Justice, I believe
that the phrase "the people" and the phrase "the
militia" were really in -- in sync with each other. You
will see references in the debates of, the Federalist
Farmer uses the phrase "the people are the militia, the
militia are the people."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if that's right,
doesn't that cut against you? If the militia included
all the people, doesn't the preamble that you rely on
not really restrict the right much at all? It includes
all the people.
MR. DELLINGER: Yes, I do believe it
includes all the people in the sense of
Verdugo-Urquidez, all those who are part of the polity.
What -- what defines the amendment is the scope and
nature of the right that the people have. It's, it is a
right to participate in the common defense and you have
a right invocable in court if a Federal regulation
interferes with your right to train for or whatever the
militia has established. So that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: One of the concerns,
Mr. Dellinger, of the framers, was not to establish a
practice of amending the Constitution and its important
provisions, and it seems to me that there is an
interpretation of the Second Amendment differing from
that of the district court and in Miller and not
advanced particularly in the red brief, but that
conforms the two clauses and in effect delinks them.
The first clause I submit can be read consistently with
the purpose I've indicated of simply reaffirming the
existence and the importance of the militia clause.
Those were very important clauses. As you've indicated,
they're in Article I and Article II. And so in effect
the amendment says we reaffirm the right to have a
militia, we've established it, but in addition, there is
a right to bear arms. Can you comment on that?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And this makes, it does --
I think you're write right in the brief to say that the
preface shouldn't be extraneous. This means it's not
extraneous. The Constitution reaffirms the rights,
reaffirm several principles: The right of the people to
peaceably assemble, the right to be secure in their
homes, the Tenth Amendment reaffirms the rights, and
this is simply a reaffirmation of the militia clause.
MR. DELLINGER: Justice Kennedy, I think any
interpretation that delinks the two clauses as if they
were dealing with related but nonetheless different
subject matters has that to count against it, and what
you don't see in the debates over the Second Amendment
are references to, in those debates, the use of weapons
for personal purposes. What you see is the clause that,
that literally transposes to this: "Because a well
regulated militia is necessary to the security of a free
State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms
shall not be" --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well the subject is "arms"
in both clauses, as I've suggested is the common
subject, and they're closely related.
MR. DELLINGER: I think, as this Court
unanimously held in Miller, or at least noted in
Miller -- I'll leave aside the debate. The court
unanimously said in Miller that the Second Amendment
must be interpreted in light of its obvious purpose to
ensure the continuation and render possible the
effectiveness of the military forces.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't see how there's
any, any, any contradiction between reading the second
clause as a -- as a personal guarantee and reading the
first one as assuring the existence of a militia, not
necessarily a State-managed militia because the militia
that resisted the British was not State- managed. But
why isn't it perfectly plausible, indeed reasonable, to
assume that since the framers knew that the way militias
were destroyed by tyrants in the past was not by passing
a law against militias, but by taking away the people's
weapons -- that was the way militias were destroyed.
The two clauses go together beautifully: Since we need
a militia, the right of the people to keep and bear arms
shall not be infringed.
MR. DELLINGER: Yes, but once you assume
that the clause is designed to protect the militia, it
-- surely it's the militia that decides whether personal
possession is necessary. I mean, Miller -- what makes
no sense is for Miller to require the arm to be
militia-related if the right is not, and the key phrase
is "bear arms." If people --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, do you think the
clause, the second clause, the operative clause, is
related to something other than the militia?
MR. DELLINGER: No. I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Well, then --
MR. DELLINGER: -- the second clause, the
phrase "keep and bear arms," when "bear arms" is
referred to -- is referred to in a military context,
that is so that even if you left aside --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It had nothing to do with
the concern of the remote settler to defend himself and
his family against hostile Indian tribes and outlaws,
wolves and bears and grizzlies and things like that?
MR. DELLINGER: That is not the discourse
that is part of the Second Amendment. And when you read
the debates, the congressional debates, the only use of
the phrase "keep and bear arms" is a military phrase,
and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Blackstone thought it was
important. Blackstone thought it was important. He
thought the right of self-defense was inherent, and the
framers were devoted to Blackstone. Joseph Story, the
first commentator on the Constitution and a member of
this Court, thought it was a personal guarantee.
MR. DELLINGER: When Blackstone speaks of
the personal guarantee, he describes it as one of the
use of weapons, a common law right. And if we're
constitutionalizing the Blackstonian common law right,
he speaks of a right that is subject to due restrictions
and applies to, quote "such weapons, such as are allowed
by law." So Blackstone builds in the kind of
reasonableness of the regulation that the District of
Columbia has. Now, the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that may be
true, but that concedes your main point that there is an
individual right and gets to the separate question of
whether the regulations at issue here are reasonable.
MR. DELLINGER: I don't dispute, Mr. Chief
Justice, that the Second Amendment is positive law that
a litigant can invoke in court if a State were to decide
after recent events that it couldn't rely upon the
Federal Government in natural disasters and wanted to
have a State-only militia and wanted to have everybody
trained in the use of a weapon, a Federal law that
interfered with that would be a law that could be
challenged in court by, by an individual. I mean, I
think the better --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dellinger --
MR. DELLINGER: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- short of that, just to
get your position clear, short of reactivating State
militias, on your reading does the Second Amendment have
any effect today as a restraint on legislation?
MR. DELLINGER: It would, Justice Ginsburg,
if the State had a militia and had attributes of the
militia contrary to a Federal law. And if it didn't --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it doesn't, as far as
I know.
MR. DELLINGER: As far as I know, today it
doesn't. And I'm not -- and the Respondents make that,
that argument that the amendment is without a use. But
you don't make up a new use for an amendment whose
prohibitions aren't being violated. I mean --
JUSTICE ALITO: Your argument is that its
purpose was to prevent the disarming of the organized
militia, isn't that correct?
MR. DELLINGER: That is correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: And if that was the purpose,
then how could they -- how could the Framers of the
Second Amendment have thought that it would achieve that
person, because Congress has virtually plenary power
over the militia under the militia clauses?
MR. DELLINGER: That is because, I think,
Justice Alito, that those who wanted to retake State
authority over the militia didn't get everything they
wanted. Madison actually did this somewhat reluctantly
and wanted to maintain national control.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They got nothing at all,
not everything they wanted. They got nothing at all.
So long as it was up to the Federal Government to
regulate the militia and to assure that they were armed,
the Federal Government could, could disband the State
militias.
MR. DELLINGER: Yes, but if -- well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So what, what was the
function served by the Second Amendment as far as the
militia is concerned?
MR. DELLINGER: It is by no means clear that
the Federal Government could abolish the State militia.
It may be presupposed by the Article I, Section 8,
clauses 15 and 16, and by the Second Amendment that the
States may have a militia. That issue has been left
open as to whether you could do that, and it can be
called into Federal service but only in particular
circumstances.
Now I think the better argument for the
other side, if, if there is to be a militia relatedness
aspect of the Second Amendment, as we think clear from
all of its terms, then Heller's proposed use of a
handgun has no connection of any kind to the
preservation or efficiency of a militia and therefore
the case is over.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but your
reading of the militia clause, the militia clause
specifically reserves concern rights to the States by
its terms. And as I understand your reading, you would
be saying the Second Amendment was designed to take away
or expand upon the rights that are reserved, rather than
simply guaranteeing what rights were understood to be
implicit in the Constitution itself.
MR. DELLINGER: I'm not sure I followed the,
the question exactly, but --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the militia
clause, Article I, Section 8, says certain rights are
reserved to the States with respect to the militia. And
yet you're telling us now that this was a very important
right that ensured that they kept arms, but it wasn't
listed in the rights that were reserved in the militia
clause.
MR. DELLINGER: The debate over the militia
clause -- what is shocking about the militia clauses is
that this is a, a new national government that for the
first time has the power to create a standing army of
professionals. The militia were people who came from
the people themselves, put down their weapons of trade.
The States were devoted to the ides of their militia of
volunteers, and of all the powers granted to the Federal
Government one of the most surprising was to say that
Congress shall have the power to organize, arm, and
discipline the militia and to -- even though the
officers could be appointed by the State, the discipline
had to be according to Congress. And this was -- this
caused a tremendous negative reaction to the proposed
Constitution.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the Second -- the
Second Amendment doesn't repeal that. You don't take
the position that Congress no longer has the power to
organize, arm, and discipline the militia, do you?
MR. DELLINGER: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it was supplementing
it. And my question is, the question before us, is how
and to what extent did it supplement it. And in my view
it supplemented it by saying there's a general right to
bear arms quite without reference to the militia either
way.
MR. DELLINGER: It restricted in our view
the authority of the Federal Government to interfere
with the arming of the militia by the States. And the
word that caused the most focus was to "arm" and that is
to disarm.
Now, what I think is happening is that two
different rights are being put together. One was a
textual right to protect the militia. I think the
better argument for the -- for the other side, for
Mr. Heller, is that the amendment's purpose is militia
protective, but it was overinclusive in the way that
several of you have suggested, and that is that, as the
court below said, preserving the individual right,
presumably to have guns for personal use, was the best
way to ensure that the militia could serve when called.
But that right, this right of personal
liberty, the Blackstonian right, is an unregulated right
to whatever arm, wherever kept, however you want to
store it, and for the purposes an individual decides,
that is a libertarian ideal. It's not the text of the
Second Amendment, which is expressly about the security
of the State; it's about well-regulated militias, not
unregulated individual license, as is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So what you are -- what you
are saying is that the individual has a right to
challenge a Federal law which in effect would disarm the
militia and make it impossible for the militia to
perform those functions that militias function. Isn't
that the nub of what you're saying?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes. That is correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. DELLINGER: And if the Court --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May ask this question,
Mr. Dellinger? To what extent do you think the similar
provisions in State constitutions that were adopted more
or less at the same time are relevant to our inquiry?
MR. DELLINGER: I think they are highly
relevant to your inquiry because now 42 States have
adopted constitutional provisions.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm not talking about
those.
MR. DELLINGER: You're talking about at the
time.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm talking about the
contemporaneous actions of the States, before or at the
time of the adoption of the Second Amendment.
MR. DELLINGER: I think that the -- the
State amendments are generally written in different --
in different terms. If you're going to protect the kind
of right that is -- that is being spoken of here,
different from the militia right, the plain language to
do it would be "Congress or the States shall pass no law
abridging the right of any person to possess weapons for
personal use." And that's not the right that is created
here.
One of the troublesome aspects of viewing
this as a right of personal use is that that is the kind
of fundamental liberty interest that would create a real
potential for disruption. Once you unmoor it from -- or
untether it from its connection to the protection of the
State militia, you have the kind of right that could
easily be restrictions on State and local governments
and --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, there's no question
that the English struggled with how to work this. You
couldn't conceal a gun and you also couldn't carry it,
but yet you had a right to have it.
Let me ask you this: Do you think the
Second Amendment is more restrictive or more expansive
of the right than the English Bill of Rights in 1689?
MR. DELLINGER: I think it doesn't address
the same subject matter as the English Bill of Rights.
I think it's related to the use of weapons as part of
the civic duty of participating in the common defense,
and it's -- and it's -- it's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think that would be more
restrictive.
MR. DELLINGER: That -- that could well --
the answer then would be --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well isn't it -- isn't it
more restrictive in the sense that the English Bill of
Rights was a guarantee against the crown, and it did not
preclude Parliament from passing a statute that would
regulate and perhaps limit --
MR. DELLINGER: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Here there is some
guarantee against what Congress can do.
MR. DELLINGER: Parliament could regulate.
And Blackstone appears to approve of precisely the kinds
of regulations here. Now --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The Bill of Rights only
protected the rights of protestants.
MR. DELLINGER: This is correct.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And it was suitable to
their conditions then as allowed by law, so it was -- it
was a group right and much more limited.
MR. DELLINGER: I think that is -- that's
correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And as I recall the
legislation against Scottish highlanders and against --
against Roman Catholics did use the term -- forbade them
to keep and bear arms, and they weren't just talking
about their joining militias; they were talking about
whether they could have arms.
MR. DELLINGER: Well, the different kind of
right that you're talking about, to take this to the
question of -- of what the standard ought to be for
applying this, even if this extended beyond a
militia-based right, if it did, it sounds more like the
part of an expansive public or personal -- an expansive
personal liberty right, and if it -- if it is, I think
you ought to consider the effect on the 42 States who
have been getting along fine with State constitutional
provisions that do expressly protect an individual right
of -- of weapons for personal use, but in those States,
they have adopted a reasonableness standard that has
allowed them to sustain sensible regulation of dangerous
weapons. And if you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is -- what is
reasonable about a total ban on possession?
MR. DELLINGER: What is reasonable about a
total ban on possession is that it's a ban only an the
possession of one kind of weapon, of handguns, that's
been considered especially -- especially dangerous. The
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if you have a law
that prohibits the possession of books, it's all right
if you allow the possession of newspapers?
MR. DELLINGER: No, it's not, and the
difference is quite clear. If -- if you -- there is no
limit to the public discourse. If there is an
individual right to guns for personal use, it's to carry
out a purpose, like protecting the home. You could not,
for example, say that no one may have more than 50
books. But a law that said no one may possess more than
50 guns would -- would in fact be I think quite
reasonable.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The regulation --
the regulation at issue here is not one that goes to the
number of guns. It goes to the specific type. And I
understood your argument to be in your brief that
because rifles and shotguns are not banned to the staple
extent as handguns, it's all right to ban handguns.
MR. DELLINGER: That is correct because
there is no showing in this case that rifles and
handguns are not fully satisfactory to carry out the
purposes. And what -- and what the court below says
about -- about the elimination of this --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The purposes of what?
MR. DELLINGER: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You said there is no
showing that rifles and handguns. I think you meant
rifles and other guns.
MR. DELLINGER: Yes, I'm sorry. Rifles and
handguns.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is necessary for the
purpose of what? What is the purpose?
MR. DELLINGER: The purpose -- if the
purpose -- if we are shifting and if we assume for a
moment arguendo that you believe this is a right
unconnected to the militia, then the purpose would be,
say, defense of the home. And where the government
here, where the -- where the correct standard has been
applied, which is where a State or the district has
carefully balanced the considerations of gun ownership
and public safety, has eliminated one weapon, the court
below has an absolutist standard that cannot be
sustained. The court below says that once it is
determined that handguns are, quote, "arms," unquote,
referred to in the Second Amendment, it is not open to
the District to ban them. And that doesn't promote the
security of a free State.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But wasn't there a leeway
for some weapon prohibition? Let me ask you, in
relation to the States that do have guarantees of the
right to possess a weapon at home: Do some of those
States say there are certain kinds of guns that you
can't have, like machine guns?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes. And here what the
opinion below would do instead -- would -- it's hard to
see on the opinion below why machine guns or
armor-piercing bullets or other dangerous weapons
wouldn't be categorically protected --
JUSTICE BREYER: Could you go back to the --
MR. DELLINGER: -- in those States --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If I could just have one
follow-on on Justice Ginsburg real quick. Do those
States -- Justice Ginsburg asked -- - that distinguish
among weapons, State constitutional provisions do not do
so?
MR. DELLINGER: No, it's not in the text of
the State constitutional provision; it's in their --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's in interpretation.
MR. DELLINGER: -- reasonable application.
And here, the question is how has the balance been
struck? The District allows law-abiding citizens to
have functioning firearms in the home. From the time it
was introduced in 1976, it has been the consistent
position that you're entitled to have a functioning
firearm. At issue is the one type of weapon --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Dellinger, let's come
back to your description of the opinion below as
allowing armor-piercing bullets and machine guns. I
didn't read it that way. I thought the opinion below
said it had to be the kind of weapon that was common for
the people --
MR. DELLINGER: That is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that is common for the
people to have. And I don't know -- I don't know that a
lot of people have machine guns or armor-piercing
bullets. I think that's quite unusual. But having a
pistol is not unusual.
MR. DELLINGER: The number of machine guns,
I believe, is in excess of a hundred thousand that are
out there now, that are --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How many people in the
country?
MR. DELLINGER: Well, there are 300 million,
but whether that's common or not, but the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think it's common.
MR. DELLINGER: But it's the -- the court
protects weapons suitable for military use that are
lineal descendants. I don't know why an improved bullet
wouldn't be covered, unless you adopt the kind of
reasonableness standard that we suggest, where you look
to the fact that -- and I don't -- some people think
machine guns are more dangerous than handguns -- they
shoot a lot of people at once -- but a handgun is
concealable and movable. It can be taken into schools,
into buses, into government office buildings, and that
is the particular danger it poses in a densely populated
urban area.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm not sure
that it's accurate to say the opinion below allowed
those. The law that the opinion, the court below, was
confronted with was a total ban, so that was the only
law they considered.
If the District passes a ban on machine guns
or whatever, then that law -- that law would be
considered by the court and perhaps would be upheld as
reasonable. But the only law they had before them was a
total ban.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or a law on the carrying of
concealed weapons, which would include pistols, of
course.
MR. DELLINGER: Let me fight back on the
notion that it's a -- it's a total ban. It's not as if
every kind of weapon is useful.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are you allowed to
carry the weapons that are allowed? I read the "carry
clause" to apply without qualification. So while you
say you might be able to have a shotgun in the home, you
can't carry it to get there.
MR. DELLINGER: No. You can -- you can with
a proper license. The District has made it clear that
there is no doubt that it interprets its laws to allow a
functioning gun. And to say that something is a total
ban when you own only one particular kind of weapon
would apply to a machine gun if it were or came into
common use and --
JUSTICE ALITO: But even if you have -- even
if you have a rifle or a shotgun in your home, doesn't
the code prevent you from loading it and unlocking it
except when it's being used for lawful, recreational
purposes within the District of Columbia? So even if
you have the gun, under this code provision it doesn't
seem as if you could use it for the defense of your
home.
MR. DELLINGER: That is not the city's
position, and we have no dispute with the other side on
the point of what the right answer should be.
It is a universal or near universal rule of
criminal law that there is a self-defense exception. It
goes without saying. We have no argument whatsoever
with the notion that you may load and have a weapon
ready when you need to use it for self- defense.
I'm going to reserve the remainder of my
time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't you
remain, Mr. Dellinger. We'll make sure you have
rebuttal.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because I did interrupt
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: I just wondered if you
could say in a minute. One possibility is that the
amendment gives nothing more than a right to the State
to raise a militia. A second possibility is that it
gives an individual right to a person, but for the
purpose of allowing people to have guns to form a
militia. Assume the second. If you assume the second,
I wanted you to respond if you -- unless you have done
so fully already, to what was the Chief Justice's
question of why, on the second assumption, this ban on
handguns, not the other part, of the District of
Columbia, a total ban, why is that a reasonable
regulation viewed in terms of the purposes as I
described them?
MR. DELLINGER: It's a reasonable regulation
for two kinds of reasons.
First, in order -- the amendment speaks of a
well-regulated militia. Perhaps it's the case that
having everybody have whatever gun they want of whatever
kind would advance a well- regulated militia, but
perhaps not. But, in any event --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It means "well trained,"
doesn't it?
MR. DELLINGER: When you -- when you have
one --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't "well regulated"
mean "well trained"? It doesn't mean -- it doesn't mean
"massively regulated." It means "well trained."
MR. DELLINGER: Well, every -- every phrase
of the amendment, like "well regulated," "security of
the State," is something different than a -- a
libertarian right. Here you have, I think, a fully --
on this, particularly on a facial challenge, there is no
showing that rifles and shotguns are not fully available
for all of the purposes of defense.
There is no indication that the District
militia is an entity that needs individuals to have
their own handguns. You -- you -- there is a step that
is -- that is missing here. The well-regulated militia
is not necessarily about everyone having a gun. A
militia may decide to organize -- be organized that way,
in which case you would have a different notion.
But here, I think, when you come down to
apply this case, if you look at about five factors, that
other weapons are allowed, important regulatory
interests of these particularly dangerous weapons are --
is clearly a significant regulatory, and important
regulatory, interest. In two respects this is removed
from the core of the amendment. Even if it is not
limited to militia service, even in the court below, no
one doubts that that was, as the court below said, the
most salient objective.
So this is in the penumbra or the periphery,
not the core. It was undoubtedly aimed principally, if
not exclusively, at national legislation which displaced
the laws in all of the States, rural as well as urban.
Here you've got local legislation responsive
to local needs, and this is local legislation in the
seat of the government where Congress, which was created
in order to protect the security of the national
government, and where it would be extraordinary to
assume that this is the one place that you're not going
to incorporate it, the one area in the United States
where no government, free of restrictions of the Second
Amendment, could control dangerous weapons.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dellinger.
General Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The Second Amendment to the Constitution, as
its text indicates, guarantees an individual right that
does not depend on eligibility for or service in the
militia.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you a
preliminary question. Do you think it has the same
meaning that it would have if it omitted the
introductory clause referring to militia?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I don't think so, Justice
Stevens, because we don't take the position that the
preamble plays no role in interpreting the amendment.
And we would point to this court's decision in Miller,
for example, as an example of where the preamble can
play a role in determining the scope --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So you think some weight
should be given to the clause. And also, the other
question I wanted to ask you is: Does the right to keep
and bear arms define one or two rights?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Oh, I suppose it probably
does define two rights that are closely related.
JUSTICE STEVENS: There's a right to keep
arms and a right to bear arms?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think that's the better
view, and a number of State courts that have interpreted
analogous provisions have distinguished between the two
rights and looked at them differently.
And, obviously, the term "keep" is a word
that I think is something of an embarrassment for an
effort to try to imbue every term in the operative text
with an exclusively military connotation because that is
not one that really has an exclusive military
connotation. As Justice Scalia pointed out, "keep" was
precisely the word that authorities used in statutes
designed specifically to disarm individuals.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It doesn't means all. It
doesn't mean -- "keep," on your reading, at least if
it's consistent with Miller, keep and bear some arms,
but not all arms.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Absolutely, Justice
Ginsburg, and just -- I mean, to give you a clear
example, we would take the position that the kind of
plastic guns or guns that are specifically designed to
evade metal detectors that are prohibited by Federal law
are not "arms" within the meaning of the Second
Amendment and are not protected at all.
And that would be the way we would say that
you should analyze that provision of Federal law, as
those are not even arms within the provisions of the
Second Amendment.
I think to make the same argument about
machine guns would be a much more difficult argument, to
say the least, given that they are the standard-issue
weapon for today's armed forces and the State-organized
militia.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So in your view this
amendment has nothing to do with the right of people
living in the wilderness to protect themselves, despite
maybe an attempt by the Federal Government, which is
what the Second Amendment applies to, to take away their
weapons?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kennedy, I
wouldn't say that it has no application there. As I
say, I think the term "arms," especially if Miller is
going to continue to be the law, is influenced by the
preamble. But the way we would look at it --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I agree that Miller is
consistent with what you've just said, but it seems to
me Miller, which kind of ends abruptly as an opinion
writing anyway, is just insufficient to subscribe -- to
describe the interests that must have been foremost in
the framers' minds when they were concerned about guns
being taken away from the people who needed them for
their defense.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kennedy, we
would analyze it this way, which is we would say that
probably the thing that was foremost in the framers'
minds was a concern that the militia not be disarmed
such that it would be maintained as a viable option to
the standing army. But especially when you remember, as
Justice Alito pointed out, that the Constitution in
Article I, Section 8, clauses 15 and 16, the militia
clauses, as unamended, gave the Federal power -- the
Federal authorities virtually plenary authority to deal
with the organization and regulation of the militia.
The most obvious way that you could protect the militia
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: Not plenary authority.
Not plenary authority.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Except for that which is
reserved in --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Who appoints the officers?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Yes -- no, absolutely.
There is something reserved in clause 16.
But let me just say, if the Second Amendment
had the meaning that the District of Columbia ascribes
to it, one would certainly think that James Madison,
when he proposed the Second Amendment would have
proposed it as an amendment to Article I, Section 8,
clause 16.
He didn't. He proposed it as an amendment
to Article I, Section 9, which encapsulates the
individual rights to be free from bills of retainder and
ex post facto clauses.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you think he was guided
at all by the contemporaneous provisions in State
constitutions?
MR. DELLINGER: I am sure he was influenced
by that, although I think, honestly --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And how many of them
protected an individual right? Just two, right?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think -- I think
Pennsylvania and Vermont are the ones that most
obviously protected.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And the others quite
clearly went in the other direction, did they not?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I don't know about
quite clearly. The textual indication in the State
amendments that probably most obviously goes in the
other direction is the phrase "keep and bear arms for
the common defense." And, of course, there was a
proposal during the debate over the Second Amendment to
add exactly those words to the Second Amendment, and
that proposal was defeated, which does --
JUSTICE STEVENS: There was also a proposal
to make it clear there was an individual right, which
was also rejected.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I'm sorry, Justice
Stevens. Which aspect of that did you have in mind?
JUSTICE STEVENS: The Pennsylvania proposal.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Oh, but I don't think that
ever made it to the floor of the House or the Senate
that I'm aware of. And I think that this happened at
the actual Senate floor. There was a proposal to add
the words "in the common defense," and that was
rejected. I mean, but --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You think Madison was
guided by the experience and the expressions of the
right in English law, including the Bill of Rights of
1689?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I do, Justice Kennedy, and
I think in that regard it is telling that -- I mean,
there are a variety of provisions in our Bill of Rights
that were borrowed from the English Bill of Rights. Two
very principal ones are the right to petition the
government and the right to keep and bear arms. I don't
think it's an accident --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If we're going back to
the English Bill of Rights, it was always understood to
be subject to the control and limitation and restriction
of Parliament. And I don't think there's any doubt
about that. And that's what we're talking about here,
are legislative restrictions.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I
think you could say the same thing for every provision
of the English Bill of Rights. And obviously, when
those were translated over to our system you had to make
adjustment for --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't there one
difference? Not every provision of the English Bill of
Rights had an express reference to permission by law,
which is a reference to parliamentary authority. So
that there -- there -- there was a peculiar recognition
of parliamentary legislative authority on this subject.
GENERAL CLEMENT: That's exactly right,
Justice Souter. And the way I counted it, I only found
three provisions in the English Bill of Rights that had
a comparable reference to Parliament.
JUSTICE STEVENS: This provision has the
additional limitation to "suitable to their conditions,"
and a large number of people were not permitted to have
arms.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Again, that is also true
and is also relatively unique to this amendment. And if
I get to the point in the argument where I talk about
why we think that something less than strict scrutiny is
appropriate, I think I would point precisely to those
elements of the English Bill of Rights as being
relevant.
But what I was about to say is I think what
is highly relevant in considering the threshold question
of whether there's an individual right here at all is
that the parallel provisions in the English Bill of
Rights that were borrowed over included the right to
petition and the right to keep and bear arms. Both of
those appear with specific parallel references to the
people. They are both rights that are given to the
people.
And as this Court has made clear in
Verdugo-Urquidez, that's a reference that
appears throughout the Bill of Rights as a reference to
the entire citizenry.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I go back to another
point, which is to the same point, and that is
consistent with your emphasis on the people was your
emphasis a moment ago on the distinction between keeping
and bearing arms. The "keep" part sounds in your, in
your mind at least, to speak of an individual right not
necessarily limited by, by the exigencies of military
service.
My question is, if that is correct and
"keep" should be read as, in effect, an independent
guarantee, then what is served by the phrase "and bear"?
In other words, if the people can keep them and they
have them there for use in the militia as well as to
hunt deer, why do we -- why do we have to have a further
reference in there to a right to bear as well as to keep
arms? And my point is it sounds to me as though "keep
and bear" forms one phrase rather than two. But I want
to know what your answer is to that.
GENERAL CLEMENT: The way I would read it,
Justice Souter, is that "keep" is really talking about
private possession in the home. And the way that I
would look at it is in order to exercise, for example,
an opportunity to hunt, that you would need to bear the
arms as well. And I would point you -- I think it's a
useful point --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But wait a minute. You're
not saying that if somebody goes hunting deer he is
bearing arms, or are you?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I would say that and so
would Madison and so would Jefferson, I would submit.
They use --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Somebody going out to -- in
the eighteenth century, someone going out to hunt a deer
would have thought of themselves as bearing arms? I
mean, is that the way they talk?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I will grant you
this, that "bear arms" in its unmodified form is most
naturally understood to have a military context. But I
think the burden of the argument on the other side is to
make it have an exclusively military context. And as a
number of the briefs have pointed out, that's not borne
out by the framing sources.
In one place, although it's not bearing
arms, it's bearing a gun, I think it's highly relevant
that Madison and Jefferson with respect to this hunting
bill that Jefferson wrote and Madison proposed,
specifically used in the hunting context the phrase
"bear a gun," and so I do think in that context --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it's "arms" that has
the kind of the military -- the martial connotation, I
would have thought.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wasn't -- wasn't it the
case that the banning of arms on the part of the
Scottish highlanders and of Catholics in England used
the term, forbade them to "bear arms"? It didn't mean
that could just not join militias; it meant they
couldn't carry arms.
GENERAL CLEMENT: And again, I think various
phrases were, were used. I also think that some of the
disarmament provisions specifically used the word
"keep." And so I think there is some independent
meaning there, which is one point.
And then I do think that, even in the
context of bearing arms, I will grant you that "arms"
has a military connotation and I think Miller would
certainly support that, but I don't think it's an
exclusively military connotation.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Not only Miller, but the
Massachusetts declaration. "The right to keep and bear
arms for the common defense" is what is the normal
reading of it.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Oh, absolutely. And I
grant you if this, if the Second Amendment said "keep
and bear arms for the common defense" this would be a
different case. But --
JUSTICE STEVENS: --- the right to keep and
bear -- I'm sorry. It's one right to keep and bear, not
two rights, to keep and to bear.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I mean it's -- it's
my friends from the District that are emphasizing that
no word in the Constitution is surplusage. So I would
say that in a context like this you might want to focus
both on "keep" and on "bear arms."
JUSTICE SOUTER: And you want to talk about
the standard, and your light's on.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL CLEMENT: Okay. I would like to
talk about the standard and my light is indeed on, so
let me do that.
I think there are several reasons why a
standard as we suggest in our brief rather than strict
scrutiny is an appropriate standard to be applied in
evaluating these laws. I think first and foremost, as
our colloquy earlier indicated, there is -- the right to
bear arms was a preexisting right. The Second Amendment
talks about "the right to bear arms," not just "a right
to bear arms." And that preexisting always coexisted
with reasonable regulations of firearms.
And as you pointed out, Justice Souter, to
be sure when you're making the translation from the
English Bill of Rights you always have to deal with
parliamentary supremacy. But it is very striking that,
as Justice Stevens said, the right was conditioned on
the conditions, which I think meant what class you were,
and also subject expressly to the Parliament, the laws
of Parliament.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The freedom of speech that
was referred to in the Constitution was also "the"
freedom of speech, which referred to the pre-existing
freedom of speech. And there were indeed some
restrictions on that such as libel that you were not
allowed to do. And yet we've never held that simply
because it was pre-existing and that there were some
regulations upon it, that we would not use strict
scrutiny. We certainly apply it to freedom of speech,
don't we?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Scalia, let me
make two related points. One, even in the First
Amendment context, this Court has recognized -- and I
point you to the Court's opinion in Robertson against
Baldwin, which makes this point as to both the First and
the Second Amendment. This Court has recognized that
there are certain pre-existing exceptions that are so
well established that you don't really even view them as
Second Amendment or First Amendment infringement.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Like libel.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Like libel, and I would
say like laws barring felons from possessing handguns.
I don't think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or would you say like
protecting yourself against intruders in the home?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, that gets to the
self-defense component and I don't know that I ever got
a chance to fully answer your question on that, Justice
Kennedy, which is we would say, notwithstanding the fact
that the preamble makes it clear that the preeminent
motive was related to ensuring that the militia remained
a viable option vis-a-vis the standing army, the
operative text is not so limited. And I think in that
regard it's worth emphasizing that the framers knew
exactly how to condition a right on militia service,
because they did it with respect to the grand jury
clause, and they didn't do it with respect to the Second
Amendment.
JUSTICE ALITO: If the amendment is intended
at least, in part to protect the right to self-defense
in the home, how could the District code provision
survive under any standard of review where they totally
ban the possession of the type of weapon that's most
commonly used for self-defense, and even as to long guns
and shotguns they require, at least what the code says
without adding a supposed gloss that might be produced
in a subsequent case, that even as to long guns and
shotguns they have to be unloaded and disassembled or
locked at all times, even presumably if someone is
breaking into the home?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Alito, let
me answer the question in two parts if I can, because I
think the analysis of the trigger lock provision may
well be different than the analysis of the other
provisions.
With respect to the trigger lock provision,
we think that there is a substantial argument that once
this Court clarifies what the constitutional standard
is, that there ought to be an opportunity for the
District of Columbia to urge its construction, which
would allow for a relatively robust self-defense
exception to the trigger lock provision. And this Court
could very well, applying Ashwan to prevent --
principles allow for that kind of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that.
What would that be -- that you can, if you have time,
when you hear somebody crawling in your -- your bedroom
window, you can run to your gun, unlock it, load it and
then fire? Is that going to be the exception?
GENERAL CLEMENT: If that's going to be the
exception, it could clearly be inadequate. And I think
that -- I mean the District of Columbia can speak to
this, but it seems to me that if, for example, the
police were executing a warrant at evening and had cause
for doing it at evening and saw somebody with a loaded
gun on their night stand, no children present without a
trigger lock, it seems to me that that would be a good
test case to decide whether or not their construction
would provide for an exception to the trigger lock
provision in that case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can I interrupt for a
minute?
GENERAL CLEMENT: If it did, I think then
the statute might well be constitutional. If it didn't,
in my view, it probably wouldn't be.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There is a lot of talk
about standards and stop words like strict scrutiny.
Does it make a practical difference whether we take your
standard or the strict scrutiny that was in the D.C.
Circuit's opinion? And specifically there is a whole
panoply of Federal laws restricting gun possession.
Would any of them be jeopardized under your standard?
And the same question with the District scrutiny, does
it make any difference?
GENERAL CLEMENT: In our view it makes a
world of difference, Justice Ginsburg, because we
certainly take the position, as we have since
consistently since 2001, that the Federal firearm
statutes can be defended as constitutional, and that
would be consistent with this kind of intermediate
scrutiny standard that we propose. If you apply strict
scrutiny, I think that the result would be quite
different, unfortunately.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, these various
phrases under the different standards that are proposed,
"compelling interest," "significant interest," "narrowly
tailored," none of them appear in the Constitution; and
I wonder why in this case we have to articulate an
all-encompassing standard. Isn't it enough to determine
the scope of the existing right that the amendment
refers to, look at the various regulations that were
available at the time, including you can't take the gun
to the marketplace and all that, and determine how
these -- how this restriction and the scope of this
right looks in relation to those?
I'm not sure why we have to articulate some
very intricate standard. I mean, these standards that
apply in the First Amendment just kind of developed over
the years as sort of baggage that the First Amendment
picked up. But I don't know why when we are starting
afresh, we would try to articulate a whole standard that
would apply in every case?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Mr. Chief Justice,
let me say a couple of things about that, which is to
say that if this Court were to decide this case and make
conclusively clear that it really was focused very
narrowly on this case and it was in some respects
applying a sui generis test, we think that would be an
improvement over the court of appeals opinion, which is
subject to more than one reading, but as Justice
Ginsburg's question just said, it's certainly
susceptible to a reading that it embodies strict
scrutiny. In fact --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, it did. It said
it's just like the First Amendment. First Amendment has
exceptions, but strict scrutiny applies. It says strict
scrutiny applies here too.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that opinion also, it
didn't use the militia prologue to say it's only the
kind of weapons that would be useful in militia, and
that are commonly -- commonly held today. Is there any
Federal exclusion of weapons that applies to weapons
that are commonly held today? I don't know what you're
worried about. Machine guns, what else? Armored
bullets, what else?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, I
think our principal concern based on the parts of the
court of appeals opinion that seemed to adopt a very
categorical rule were with respect to machine guns,
because I do think that it is difficult -- I don't want
to foreclose the possibility of the Government, Federal
Government making the argument some day -- but I think
it is more than a little difficult to say that the one
arm that's not protected by the Second Amendment is that
which is the standard issue armament for the National
Guard, and that's what the machine gun is.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But this law didn't
involve a restriction on machine guns. It involved an
absolute ban. It involved an absolute carry
prohibition. Why would you think that the opinion
striking down an absolute ban would also apply to a
narrow one -- narrower one directed solely to machine
guns?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think, Mr. Chief
Justice, why one might worry about that is one might
read the language of page 53a of the opinion as
reproduced in the petition appendix that says once it is
an arm, then it is not open to the District to ban it.
Now, it seems to me that the District is not
strictly a complete ban because it exempts pre-1976
handguns. The Federal ban on machine guns is not,
strictly speaking, a ban, because it exempts pre --
pre-law machine guns, and there is something like
160,000 of those.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that passage doesn't
mean once it's an arm in the dictionary definition of
arms. Once it's an arm in the specialized sense that
the opinion referred to it, which is -- which is the
type of a weapon that was used in militia, and it is --
it is nowadays commonly held.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you read it that way, I
don't see why you have a problem.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I -- I hope that you
read it that way. But I would also say that I think
that whatever the definition that the lower court
opinion employed, I do think it's going to be difficult
over time to sustain the notion -- I mean, the Court of
Appeals also talked about lineal descendants. And it
does seem to me that, you know, just as this Court would
apply the Fourth Amendment to something like heat
imagery, I don't see why this Court wouldn't allow the
Second Amendment to have the same kind of scope, and
then I do think that reasonably machine guns come within
the term "arms."
Now, if this Court wants to say that they
don't -- I mean -- I mean -- we'd obviously welcome that
in our -- in our obligation to defend the
constitutionality of acts of Congress.
The one other thing I would say is that this
is an opinion that is susceptible of different readings.
It's interesting that Respondents' amici have different
characterizations of it. The Goldwater Institute calls
it strict scrutiny; the State of Texas calls it
reasonable -- reasonableness review.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Gura.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALAN GURA
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. GURA: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
All 50 states allow law-abiding citizens to
defend themselves and their families in their homes with
ordinary functional firearms including handguns. Now,
I'd like to respond to one point that was raised lately
by the General --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Talk a little slower; I'm
not following you.
MR. GURA: Okay. I'd like to respond --
certainly, Justice Scalia. I'd like to respond to the
point about the -- the District of Columbia's position
over the years with respect to the functional firearms
ban.
The Petitioners have had two opportunities
to urge courts to adopt this so-called self-defense
exception which they construed in the amendment. The
first opportunity came in 1978 in McIntosh versus
Washington, where the petitioners urged the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia to uphold the law
because it was irrational in their view to prohibit
self-defense in the home with firearms. They deemed it
to be too dangerous, and this was a legitimate policy
choice of the City Council, and they actually prevailed
in that view.
The second opportunity that the Petitioners
had to urge this sort of self-defense construction was
actually in this case in the district court. We had a
motion for summary judgment and we made certain factual
allegations in this motion, and on page 70a of the joint
appendix we see portions of our statement of undisputed
material facts. Fact number 29, which was conceded by
the District of Columbia, reads: The defendants
prohibit the possession of lawfully owned firearms for
self-defense within the home, even in instances when
self-defense would be lawful by other means under
District of Columbia law. The citation for that is a
functional firearms ban, and that point was conceded.
Certainly the idea that people can guess as
to when it is that they might render the firearm
operational is -- is not a one that the Court should
accept, because a person who hears a noise, a person who
perhaps is living in a neighborhood where there has been
a spate of violent crimes, has no idea of when the
District of Columbia would permit her to render the
firearm operational. And, in fact, there is a
prosecution history not under this specific provision,
but certainly other under gun prohibition -- laws that
we are challenging here today to prosecute people for
the possession or for the carrying of a prohibited
firearm even when the police ruled the shooting has been
lawful self-defense.
JUSTICE BREYER: You're saying that this is
unreasonable, and that really is my question because I'd
like you to assume two things with me, which you
probably don't agree with, and I may not agree with
them, either.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: But I just want you to
assume them for the purpose of the question. All right.
Assume that the -- that there is an
individual right, but the purpose of that right is to
maintain a citizen army; call it a militia; that that's
the basic purpose. So it informs what's reasonable and
what isn't reasonable.
Assume -- and this is favorable to you but
not as favorable as you'd like -- assume that we are
going to decide whether something is proportionate or
apply an intermediate standard in light of the purpose.
All right.
Now, focus on the handgun ban. As I read
these 80 briefs -- and they were very good, I mean
really good and informative on both sides -- and I'm
trying to boil down the statistics where there is
disagreement, and roughly what I get -- and don't
quarrel with this too much; it's very rough -- that
80,000 to 100,000 people every year in the United States
are either killed or wounded in gun-related homicides or
crimes or accidents or suicides, but suicide is more
questionable. That's why I say 80,000 to 100,000.
In the District, I guess the number is
somewhere around 200 to 300 dead; and maybe, if it's
similar, 1,500 to 2,000 people wounded. All right.
Now, in light of that, why isn't a ban on
handguns, while allowing the use of rifles and muskets,
a reasonable or a proportionate response on behalf of
the District of Columbia?
MR. GURA: Because, Your Honor, for the same
reason it was offered by numerous military officers at
the highest levels of the U.S. military in all branches
of service writing in two briefs, they agree with us
that the handgun ban serves to weaken America's military
preparedness. Because when people have handguns --
handguns are military arms, they are not just civilian
arms -- they are better prepared and able to use them.
And, certainly, when they join the military forces, they
are issued handguns.
And so if we assume that the sort of
military purpose to the Second Amendment is an
individual right, then the handgun ban, as noted by our
military amici, would impede that.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I didn't read -- I
read the two military briefs as focusing on the nature
of the right, which was quite a pretty good argument
there that the nature of the right is to maintain a
citizen Army.
And to maintain that potential today, the
closest we come is to say that there is a right for
people to understand weapons, to know how to use them,
to practice with them. And they can do that, you see,
with their rifles. They can go to gun ranges, I guess,
in neighboring States.
But does that make it unreasonable for a
city with a very high crime rate, assuming that the
objective is what the military people say, to keep us
ready for the draft, if necessary, is it unreasonable
for a city with that high crime rate to say no handguns
here?
JUSTICE SCALIA: You want to say yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, why?
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's your answer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you want to say yes,
that's correct, but I want to hear what the reasoning is
because there is a big crime problem. I'm simply
getting you to focus on that.
MR. GURA: The answer is yes, as Justice
Scalia noted, and it's unreasonable, and it actually
fails any standard of review that might be offered under
such a construction of individual rights because
proficiency with handguns, as recognized as a matter of
judicial notice by the First Circuit in Cases back in
1942 -- that was a handgun case where the First Circuit
examined the restriction on the carrying of the
30-caliber revolver. And the First Circuit accepted, as
a matter of judicial notice, that proficiency in use and
familiarity with the handgun at issue would be one that
would further a militia purpose. And so --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask this question:
In answering yes, do you attach any significance to the
reference to the militia in the Second Amendment?
MR. GURA: Yes, I do, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You think that is -- to
understand the amendment, you must pay some attention to
the militia requirement?
MR. GURA: Yes, Your Honor, we must --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So a conscientious
objector who likes to hunt deer for food, you would say,
has no rights under the Second Amendment. He is not
going to be part of the militia. He is not going to be
part of the common defense, but he still wants to bear
arms. You would say that he doesn't have any rights
under this amendment?
MR. GURA: No, Your Honor. I think that the
militia clause informs the purpose -- informs a purpose.
It gives us some guidepost as to how we look at the
Second Amendment, but it's not the exclusive purpose of
the Second Amendment. Certainly, the Founders cared
very much about --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it a limitation? Is
it any limitation on the legislature? Is the first
clause any limitation on the legislature?
MR. GURA: It is a limitation to one extent,
Your Honor, the extent recognized in Miller where the
Miller Court asked whether or not a particular type of
arm that's at issue is one that people may individually
possess. It looked to the militia clause and,
therefore, adopted a militia purpose as one of the two
prongs of Miller.
And so, certainly, if there were -- if the
Court were to continue Miller -- and Miller was the only
guidance that the lower court had, certainly, as to what
arms are protected or unprotected by the Second
Amendment. And yet --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If it limits the kinds of
arms to be appropriate to a militia, why does it not
also limit the kind of people who may have arms?
MR. GURA: It does not eliminate the kind of
people, Your Honor, because the Second Amendment is the
right of the people. And it would certainly be an odd
right that we would have against the Congress, if
Congress could then redefine people out of that right.
Congress could tomorrow declare that nobody is in a
militia, and then nobody would have the right against
the government.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If you were thinking of
"the people," what those words meant when the Second
Amendment was adopted, it was males between the ages of
what -- 17 and 45? People who were over 45 had no --
they didn't serve in the militia.
MR. GURA: Well, certainly, there were many
people who were not eligible for militia duty, or not
subject to militia service, who nevertheless were
expected to, and oftentimes did, in fact, have guns.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which shows that maybe
you're being unrealistic in thinking that the second
clause is not broader than the first. It's not at all
uncommon for a legislative provision or a constitutional
provision to go further than is necessary for the
principal purpose involved.
The principal purpose here is the militia,
but the -- but the second clause goes beyond the militia
and says the right of the people to keep and bear arms.
Now, you may say the kind of arms is colored
by the militia. But it speaks of the right of the
people. So why not acknowledge that it's -- it's
broader than the first clause?
MR. GURA: Well, we do acknowledge that,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then why have the first
clause? I mean what is it doing -- I mean what help is
it going to be?
MR. GURA: Well, it was a way in which to
remind us -- the Framers certainly felt that a militia
was very important to the preservation of liberty. The
Framers had just fought a revolutionary war that relied
heavily on militia forces, and so they wanted to honor
that and remind us as to the purpose -- one purpose, not
the exclusive purpose, but a purpose -- of preserving
the right --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could it also be simply to
reaffirm that the provisions in the main text of the
Constitution remain intact?
MR. GURA: That's correct, Your Honor. In
fact, that view was taken by William Rawle in his 1828
treatise, view of the Constitution. Rawle was, of
course, a ratifier of the Second Amendment. He sat in
the Pennsylvania Assembly in 1790. And if you look at
his description of the Second Amendment, he bifurcates
it. First, he discusses the militia clause, and he
lavishes some qualified praise on it. And then --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you were about to tell
us before the course of the questioning began about the
other purposes that the amendment served. I'm -- I want
to know whether or not, in your view, the operative
clause of the amendment protects, or was designed to
protect in an earlier time, the settler in the
wilderness and his right to have a gun against some
conceivable Federal enactment which would prohibit him
from having any guns?
MR. GURA: Oh, yes. Yes, Justice Kennedy.
The right of the people to keep and bear arms was
derived from Blackstone. It was derived from the
common-law English right which the Founders wanted to
expand.
In fact, the chapter in which Blackstone
discusses this in his treatise, his fifth auxiliary
right to arms, is entitled --
JUSTICE BREYER: That brings me back to the
question because Blackstone describes it as a right to
keep and bear arms "under law." And since he uses the
words "under law," he clearly foresees reasonable
regulation of that right. And so does the case not
hinge on, even given all your views, on whether it is or
is not a reasonable or slightly tougher standard thing
to do to ban the handgun, while leaving you free to use
other weapons?
I mean, I notice that the militia statute,
the first one, spoke of people coming to report, in
1790, or whenever, with their rifles, with their
muskets, but only the officers were to bring pistols.
So that, to me, suggests they didn't see pistols as
crucial even then, let alone now.
MR. GURA: Well, certainly they saw --
JUSTICE BREYER: What's your response to the
question?
MR. GURA: Well, my response is that the
government can ban arms that are not appropriate for
civilian use. There is no question of that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That are not appropriate
to --
MR. GURA: That are not appropriate to
civilian use.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: For example?
MR. GURA: For example, I think machine
guns: It's difficult to imagine a construction of
Miller, or a construction of the lower court's opinion,
that would sanction machine guns or the plastic,
undetectable handguns that the Solicitor General spoke
of.
The fact is that this Court's Miller test
was the only guidance that we had below, and I think it
was applied faithfully. Once a weapon is, first of all,
an "arm" under the dictionary definition -- and Webster
has a very useful one -- then you look to see whether
it's an arm that is meant to be protected under the
Second Amendment, and we apply the two-pronged Miller
test. And usually one would imagine if an arm fails the
Miller test because it's not appropriate for common
civilian applications --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why wouldn't the
machine gun qualify? General Clement told us that's
standard issue in the military.
MR. GURA: But it's not an arm of the type
that people might be expected to possess commonly in
ordinary use. That's the other aspect of Miller.
Miller spoke about the militia as encompassing the
notion that people would bring with them arms of the
kind in common use supplied by themselves. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there any
parallel --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: At this time -- I would
just like to follow up on what you said, because if you
were right that it was at that time, yes; but that's not
what Miller says. It says that the gun in question
there was not one that at this time -- this time, the
time of the Miller decision -- has a reasonable
relationship to the preservation or efficiency of a
well-regulated militia. So it's talking about this
time.
MR. GURA: That's correct. The time frame
that the Court must address is always the present. The
framers wished to preserve the right to keep and bear
arms. They wished to preserve the ability of people to
act as militia, and so there was certainly no plan for,
say, a technical obsolescence.
However, the fact is that Miller spoke very
strongly about the fact that people were expected to
bring arms supplied by themselves of the kind in common
use at the time. So if in this time people do not have,
or are not recognized by any court to have, a common
application for, say, a machine gun or a rocket launcher
or some other sort of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there any
parallel at the time that the amendment was adopted to
the machine gun? In other words, I understand your
point to be that, although that's useful in modern
military service, it's not something civilians possess.
Was there anything like that at the time of the
adoption, or were the civilian arms exactly the same as
the ones you'd use in the military?
MR. GURA: At the time that -- even at the
time Miller was decided, the civilian arms were pretty
much the sort that were used in the military. However,
it's hard to imagine how a machine gun could be a
"lineal descendent," to use the D.C. Circuit's wording,
of anything that existed back in 1791, if we want to
look to the framing era. Machine guns --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that
Miller, as we're discussing it now, and the whole idea
that the militia clause has a major effect in
interpreting the operative clause is both overinclusive
and underinclusive. I would have to agree with Justice
Ginsburg that a machine gun is probably more related to
the militia now than a pistol is. But that -- that
seems to me to be allowing the militia clause to make no
sense out of the operative clause in present-day
circumstances.
MR. GURA: Your Honor, even within the
militia understanding, the understanding of the militia
was always that people would bring whatever they had
with them in civilian life. So if a machine gun, even
though it may be a wonderful --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: My point is: Why is that
of any real relevance to the situation that faces the
homeowner today?
MR. GURA: It's only of relevance if the
Court wishes to continue reading the militia clause as
informing the type of weapon which is protected.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you're being
faithful to Miller. I suggest that Miller may be
deficient.
MR. GURA: I agree with Your Honor, and
certainly in our brief we suggest that the militia
emphasis of Miller is not useful as a limiting principle
to the type of arms that may be -- that may be
permitted. Because, on the one hand, there's a great
deal of weaponry that might be wonderful for military
duty but is not appropriate for common civilian use,
which would not be protected even under the Miller
test's first prong.
And, on the other hand, everything that
civilians today might wish to have in ordinary common
use -- handguns, rifles, and shotguns -- are militarily
useful weapons.
So we de-emphasize the military aspects of
Miller as being ultimately not very useful guidance for
courts. And the better guidance would be to emphasize
the commonsense rule that I think judges would have
really no trouble applying, and we do this all the time
in constitutional law: To simply make a decision as to
whether or not whichever arm comes up at issue is an arm
of the kind that you could really reasonably expect
civilians to have.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why -- now, when say "keep"
and "bear," I mean you are -- I think you're on to
something here. Because you say let's use our common
sense and see what would be the equivalent today. Fine.
If we know that at the time, in 1789,
Massachusetts had a law that said you cannot keep loaded
firearms in the house, right, and you have to keep all
of the bullets and everything and all of the powder
upstairs, why did they have that law? To stop fires
because it's dangerous? They didn't have fire
departments. Now we do -- or they weren't as good.
We now have police departments, and the
crime wave might be said similar to what were fires
then. And, therefore, applying the similar kind of
thing, you say: Fine, just as you could keep pistols
loaded but not -- not loaded. You had to keep powder
upstairs because of the risk of fire. So today,
roughly, you can say no handguns in the city because of
the risk of crime.
Things change. But we give in both
instances, then and now, leeway to the city and States
to work out what's reasonable in light of their
problems. Would that be a way of approaching it?
MR. GURA: The legislature has a great deal
of leeway in regulating firearms. There is no dispute
about that. However, I wouldn't draw a complete analogy
between the Boston fire ordinances that Your Honor notes
and the functional firearms ban.
First, even the Boston firearms ordinances
did not include handguns actually. At the time the word
"firearm" was not understood to include pistols.
General Gage's inventory of weapons seized from the
Americans in Boston included some 1800 or so firearms
and then 634 pistols. Nowhere in the Boston code do we
see a prohibition on keeping loaded pistols in the home.
And certainly the idea that -- that self-defense is a
harm is one that is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Not self-defense being the
harm. And I agree with you that this, the firearm
analogy, floats up there, but it isn't going to decide
this case, the Massachusetts statute. I agree with you
about that.
What you've suddenly given me the idea of
doing, which I'm testing, is to focus not just on what
the kind of weapon is -- don't just look to see whether
it's a cannon or a machine gun, but look to see what the
purpose of this regulation is, and does it make sense in
terms of having the possibility of people trained in
firearms?
Let's look at those military briefs. Let's
say that the generals have it right, there is some kind
of right to keep trained in the use of firearms subject
to regulation. We have regulation worried about crime,
back to my first question.
MR. GURA: Well, back to Your Honor's first
question, we don't agree that the military purpose is
the exclusive purpose of the Second Amendment. And we
also don't agree that it could be a reasonable
regulation or under any standard of review to prohibit
people from having functional firearms in their own home
for purposes of self-defense.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't even agree that
Massachusetts was subject to the Second Amendment.
MR. GURA: Well, originally it was not. But
what we've seen with the Fourteenth Amendment, and we've
seen --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the time we're talking
about, the firearms in the home ordinance, when was
that?
MR. GURA: 1783 I believe was the statute.
JUSTICE STEVENS: How do you explain the
fact that you include self-defense, but only two States,
Pennsylvania and Vermont, did refer to self-defense as a
permissible justification and all of the others referred
to common defense or defense of the State, and in the
Articles of Confederation and the Constitution itself
there is no reference to self-defense?
MR. GURA: Your Honor, the State courts
interpreting those provisions that you reference had a
different interpretation. For example, in 1895
Massachusetts --
JUSTICE STEVENS: 1895. I'm talking about
contemporaneous with the adoption of the Second
Amendment.
MR. GURA: Well, at the time we haven't seen
State court decisions from exactly that era.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Just the text of the State
constitutional provisions, two of them refer to
self-defense. The rest refer only to common defense; is
that not correct?
MR. GURA: On their literal text, yes. But
judges did not interpret them that way, for example in
North Carolina --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand that judicial
interpretation sometimes is controlling and sometimes is
not. But the text itself does draw a distinction, just
as the Second Amendment does. It doesn't mention
self-defense.
MR. GURA: While it might not mention
self-defense, it was clear that the demands that the
States made at the ratifying conventions were for an
individual right, and Madison was interested in --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, if you look at the
individual rights I suppose you start back in 1689, the
Declaration of Rights in England. And the seventh
provision that they talked about said that: "The
subjects which are protestants may have arms for their
defense suitable to their conditions and as allowed by
law." Now do you think the term "suitable to their
conditions" limited the number of people who had access
to arms for self-defense?
MR. GURA: It was in England, but that was
criticized by the framers. St. George Tucker's edition
of Blackstone --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So you think that the
Second Amendment is a departure from the provision in
the Declaration of Rights in England?
MR. GURA: It's quite clearly an expansion
upon it.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So that's not really
your -- you would not confine the right the way the
English did then.
MR. GURA: I think the common law of England
is a guide, and it's always a useful guide because
that's where the -- where we -- where we look to, to
interpret --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's useful for such
purposes as what "keep and bear arms" means and things
of that sort.
MR. GURA: It certainly is, Your Honor. And
it's also useful to see how --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They certainly didn't want
to preserve the kind of militia that America had, which
was a militia separate from the state, separate from the
government, which enabled the revolt against the
British.
MR. GURA: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is there any -- is there
any record evidence that the anti-Federalist objections
to the Constitution that ultimately resulted in the
Second Amendment were premised on any failure to
recognize an individual right of self-defense or hunting
or whatnot, as distinct from being premised on concern
about the power of the national government and the
militia clauses in Article 1?
MR. GURA: Yes, Justice Souter. If we look
to, for example, the -- the demands of the Pennsylvania
minority, the anti-Federalists there were extremely
influential. They couched their demands in unmistakably
self-defense terms. In fact, they added a provision --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but they didn't -- they
didn't limit it to self-defense. I mean, what provoked
it, as I understand it, was concern about the militia
clauses, and here I mean you're certainly correct. I
agree with you. Pennsylvania went beyond that. It
was -- it was one of three States, as I understand, that
did go beyond it. But the provocation for getting into
the subject, as I understand it, was, in each instance
including Pennsylvania, concern over the national
government's power over militias under Article 1.
MR. GURA: Justice Souter, we wouldn't see
the history that way. Certainly there is agreement that
the militia clauses in the Constitution were
controversial. And there were separate amendments that
were proposed and always rejected that would have
addressed that explicitly. In fact, if we look at
Virginia's proposals, it's agreed by the Petitioners
that Virginia was the model for the Bill of Rights and
specifically, of course, for the Second Amendment.
We saw one set of proposed amendments from
Virginia entitled Bill of Rights, and the Second
Amendment language comes from paragraph 17 of that Bill
of Rights. And then we see a list of other amendments,
and then we have the 11th proposed amendment, which
speaks exactly to the -- reverting control over the
militia back to the -- back to the States.
Now, there is no reason to suppose that
Virginia would have made the same demand twice, that
they would have, like all the other demands, it had
separate "keep and bear arms" provisions and separate
militia provisions, that people were being duplicative
for no reason. The fact is that the militia concerns
were heard and they were voted down, and the Second
Amendment concerns were the ones that the Federalists
were easily agreeable to because the right to keep and
bear arms by individuals was not controversial, it would
not have altered the structure of our Constitution, and
so those were agreed to quite readily.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why isn't the
trigger-lock provisions that are at issue here, why
aren't they similar to the various provisions that
Justice Breyer mentioned like the gunpowder restriction?
In other words, for reasons of domestic safety, they
said you can't store the gunpowder anywhere but on the
top floor. Why isn't the modern trigger-lock provision
similar to those?
MR. GURA: Well, it's not similar because
the modern trigger-lock provisions are aimed squarely at
self-defense in the home. There is no risk today that
the kind of powder we use --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there is
always a risk that the children will get up and grab the
firearm and use it for some purpose other than what the
Second Amendment was designed to protect.
MR. GURA: Oddly enough, a child can access
a firearm stored consistently with the District's law,
that is, a firearm which is disassembled and unloaded,
nothing would prevent a child --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, right. But, I
mean, you don't necessarily expect a young child to be
able to reassemble the pistol.
MR. GURA: That's true, Your Honor.
However, better safe storage approach is the one used by
the majority of jurisdictions, I believe, that do have
such laws, which is to require safe storage, for
example, in a safe. And that is a reasonable
limitation. It's a strict scrutiny limitation.
Whatever standard of view we may wish to apply, I think,
would encompass a safe storage provision.
But this is not a safe storage provision
because we have specific exceptions that allow you to
actually use the firearm in recreational shooting and
also in a place of business. And we have litigation
history from Washington, D.C., that tells us that we are
not supposed to have an operable firearm for purposes of
self-defense because they simply do not trust people to
defend themselves in our home. And -- and self-defense
is the heart of the Second Amendment right. That is
what Blackstone was getting at when he spoke of the
fifth auxiliary right to arms, because it protected the
right of personal preservation.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You say that the right of
self-defense was the heart of the Second Amendment, in
your view. Strangely that some provisions suggested
that and were not accepted by the authors of the Second
Amendment.
MR. GURA: Which provisions were those,
Justice Stevens?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Pennsylvania.
MR. GURA: Well, Pennsylvania's provision
was certainly influential. Remember, Madison was trying
to mollify the anti-Federalists' concerns. The Second
Amendment is clearly addressed to Pennsylvania and New
Hampshire and New York and all these other States that
were demanding a right to keep and bear arms, and there
was always understood to be an individual right because
that is the way in which the right that was violated by
the British in the war of revolution that occurred not
too long ago. And --
I'm finished.
JUSTICE BREYER: Thinking of your exchange
with the Chief Justice and think of the trigger lock in
your view and what the question was, do you want -- I
don't know how well trigger locks work or not -- but do
you want thousands of judges all over the United States
to be deciding that kind of question rather than the
city councils and the legislatures that have decided it
in the context of passing laws? I mean, isn't there an
issue here and a problem with respect to having courts
make the kinds of decisions about who is right or not in
that trigger-lock argument?
MR. GURA: When a fundamental right is at
stake, there is a role for judicial review, Your Honor.
We are not going to see a thousand judges review such
laws because Washington, D.C.'s is the only example of
it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If it's a fundamental
right, what about licensing? One piece -- we've talked
about trigger locks, we've talked about the ban on
handguns, but there is also a requirement that there be
a license for possession of a handgun. Assuming you're
right on the first question, that you couldn't flatly
ban handguns, what about a requirement that you obtain a
license to carry -- to have a handgun?
MR. GURA: Justice Ginsburg, that would
depend on the licensing law itself. We don't have a
problem with the concept of licensing so long as it's
done --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about this very law?
If you take out the ban -- there is a law on the books.
It's one of the ones that you challenged. It's section
22-4504(a). Wouldn't that be okay -- would that be
okay? It says that you have to have a license to carry.
MR. GURA: So long as the licensing law is
not enforced in an arbitrary and capricious manner, so
long as there are some hopefully objective standards and
hopefully some process for --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It just says -- it says
you have to get a license if you want to possess a gun.
What kind of standard? It just says you have to have a
license.
MR. GURA: Well, the government could set
reasonable standards for that, Your Honor. The
government could require, for example, knowledge of the
State's use of force laws. They can require some sort
of vision test. They could require, perhaps,
demonstrated competency. And those are the types of
things that we sometimes see; background checks, of
course. Those are going to be reasonable licensing
requirements.
However, if the license requirement is we
only wanted to give licenses to people who look a
certain way or depends on how we feel or if the
licensing office is only open Thursdays at 3:00 in the
morning -- I mean, it all depends on the implementation.
And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about -- what
about age limits -- you've got to be over 18 or you've
got to be over 21 to get a license?
MR. GURA: Well, certainly the
age-of-majority issue is -- is an appropriate one. I
don't think there is a problem with requiring a majority
age 18 and then 21 for --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is the age limit
necessarily the same nationwide? Maybe 16 in Wyoming
makes more sense but 21 in the District.
MR. GURA: Courts would have to examine
those at some point. The government would have to look
at the circumstances it confronted and enact, up to some
point, an age limit. I think it would be very difficult
to have an age limit that goes beyond 21, because that's
the majority age for most things in the United States.
And, in fact, we have the voting rights cases from the
late '60s where --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question?
Are you, in effect, reading the amendment to say that
the right shall not be unreasonably infringed instead of
shall not be infringed?
MR. GURA: There is that inherent aspect to
every right in the Constitution.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So we can -- consistent
with your view, we can simply read this: "It shall not
be unreasonably infringed"?
MR. GURA: Well, yes, Your Honor, to some
extent, except the word "unreasonable" is the one that
troubles us because we don't know what this unreasonable
standard looks like.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You wouldn't put it that
way. You would just say it is not being infringed if
reasonable limitations are placed upon it.
MR. GURA: That's another way to look at it,
Your Honor. Certainly --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- you would define
"reasonable" in light of the restrictions that existed
at the time the amendment was adopted.
MR. GURA: Those restrictions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You know, you can't
take it into the marketplace was one restriction. So
that would be -- we are talking about lineal descendents
of the arms but presumably there are lineal descendents
of the restrictions as well.
MR. GURA: Framing our practices would
inform the kind of restrictions that would be accepted.
But even beyond that, they also inform the contours of
the right. In the Fifth Circuit, for example, we have
the Emerson decision now for seven years, and the way
that that court has examined the Second Amendment when
they get these felon and possession bans and drug addict
and possession challenges, what they say is, these
people simply are outside the right, as historically
understood in our country. And that's a very important
aspect to remember, that the Second Amendment is part of
our common law tradition, and we look to framing our
practices in traditional understandings of that right to
see both the reasonableness of the restrictions that are
available as well as the contours.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Can we also look to current
conditions like current crime statistics?
MR. GURA: To some extent, Your Honor, but
we have certainly --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, can they consider the
extent of the murder rate in Washington, D.C., using
handguns?
MR. GURA: If we were to consider the extent
of the murder rate with handguns, the law would not
survive any type of review, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All the more reason to
allow a homeowner to have a handgun.
MR. GURA: Absolutely, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Whose judgment is that
to --
JUSTICE SOUTER: The question is whether
they may consider those statistics, and I take it your
answer is yes?
MR. GURA: Well, those statistics might be
considered in some way, the fact is that at some point
there is a role for judicial review. And you can't just
grab at statistics -- and some of the statistics that
were used here are very weak, and studies that have been
rejected by the National Academy of Sciences repeatedly.
I mean, we don't really have -- it's hard to say that
those laws --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But I think -- I don't want
you to misunderstand my question. My question is that
by looking to the statistics, I'm not suggesting that
there is only sort of one reasonable response to them.
I want to know whether -- whether the policymakers may
look to them; and I take it your answer is yes?
MR. GURA: To some degree, yes, policymakers
have to be informed by what's going on in order to make
policy. However, there are constitutional limitations
enforced by courts that are going to limit those
policies. And when you have a ban which bans 40 percent
of all weapons that are the type of weapons used by
civilians, 80 percent of all self-defense occurs with
handguns; when you have that kind of ban, functional
firearms ban, these are extreme measures --
JUSTICE SOUTER: They may be. I just want
to make sure you're not making the argument that because
there was not a comparable homicide rate, or for that
matter, a comparable need for self-defense from handgun
use in 1792, that there -- 1790 -- that therefore, the
statistics of today may not be considered? You're not
making that argument?
MR. GURA: No, Your Honor, the fact is that
we can always debate these things, but the object of the
Bill of Rights is to remove certain judgments from the
legislature, because we can make policy arguments,
normative arguments about many provisions of the
Constitution. But to make those arguments and say,
well, we've decided as a matter of policy that the right
to keep and bear arms is no longer a good idea and,
therefore, we are going to have restrictions that
violate that stricture in the Bill of Rights, that
shouldn't pass judicial review. At some point you have
to go to Article 5 if you think that the Constitution is
impractical.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But Just to be clear --
and I don't want to misstate your position, but my
understanding, I at least inferred that you would
consider it reasonable to ban shipment of machine guns
and sawed-off shotguns in interstate commerce?
MR. GURA: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And how about a State
university wants to ban students having arms in the
dormitory?
MR. GURA: Certainly that creates some sort
of an evidentiary record. Conceivably that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's the bare fact.
That's what -- a State regulation prohibits students
from having arms on campus.
MR. GURA: We would have to do --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You'd have to think about
that.
MR. GURA: -- some fact finding. It's
something that might be doable, but again, that's so far
from what we have here. We have here a ban on all guns,
for all people, in all homes, at all times in the
Nation's capital. That questionably is too broad and
too sweeping under any level of review.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Gura.
Mr. Dellinger, 10 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WALTER DELLINGER,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. DELLINGER: Mr. Chief Justice, I want to
address first why this law is reasonable and should be
sustained, and why the judgement below has to be
reversed, however, whatever position you take on the
theories of the amendment. And in defending the eminent
reasonableness and careful balance of this law, I need
to start with the trigger law, about which Justice Alito
asked.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, before you
start with it, how many minutes does it take to remove a
trigger lock and load a gun? Because both the gun has
to be unloaded; it has to have a trigger lock under the
District laws.
MR. DELLINGER: Those are alternatives, Mr.
Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, disassembled --
MR. DELLINGER: Just a trigger lock.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In either case it
has to be unloaded, correct?
MR. DELLINGER: There are some versions of
the trigger lock that allow you to put the trigger lock
on and then load the gun. But the piece that goes in
the trigger mechanism, even someone as clumsy as I could
remove it and effect it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the law, as I
understand it, says that the gun has to be unloaded. So
under your hypothetical, I assume that would violate the
District's law if the gun is still loaded.
MR. DELLINGER: You know, it's a question of
where you put the parenthesis. I read that as
disassembled and unloaded or under a trigger lock, and
that's the, that's the way the District --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So how long does it
take? If your interpretation is correct, how long does
it take to remove the trigger lock and make the gun
operable.
MR. DELLINGER: You -- you place a trigger
lock on and it has -- the version I have, a few -- you
can buy them at 17th Street Hardware -- has a code, like
a three-digit code. You turn to the code and you pull
it apart. That's all it takes. Even -- it took me 3
seconds.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You turn on, you turn on
the lamp next to your bed so you can -- you can turn the
knob at 3-22-95, and so somebody --
MR. DELLINGER: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it like that? Is
it a numerical code?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes, you can have one with a
numerical code.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So then you turn on
the lamp, you pick up your reading glasses --
(Laughter.)
MR. DELLINGER: Let me tell you. That's
right. Let me tell you why at the end of the day this
doesn't -- this doesn't matter, for two reasons. The
lesson --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It may not matter,
but I'd like some idea about how long it takes.
MR. DELLINGER: It took me 3 seconds. I'm
not kidding. It's -- it's not that difficult to do it.
That was in daylight.
The other version is just a loop that goes
through the chamber with a simple key. You have the key
and put it together. Now, of course if you're going --
if you want to have your weapon loaded and assembled,
that's a different matter.
But here's where I want to address the
trigger lock. Here's why it doesn't matter for the
handgun law. The District believes that what is
important here is the ban on handguns. And it also
believes that you're entitled to have a functional,
usable weapon for self-defense in the home, and that's
why this is a very proportionate law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if
proportionate, in other words you're saying your
interest is allowing self-defense in the home --
MR. DELLINGER: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does it really make
sense to say the best self-defense arm is a rifle, as
opposed to a pistol?
MR. DELLINGER: It is -- there has been no
showing here that a rifle or a shotgun is inadequate for
the purposes of self-defense in this facial challenge.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is there anything to show
that the District Council ever considered the issue of
self-defense? That -- because they banned handguns and
they had this provision on the trigger lock which -- and
the issue -- my question with the trigger lock doesn't
have to do with whether trigger locks are generally a
good idea. It's whether you're ever allowed to take it
off for purposes of defense. There's no -- is there
anything to show that the -- that the council actually
considered what sort of weapon is appropriate for
self-defense?
MR. DELLINGER: There are decisions in the
District of Columbia about the right of self-defense
that apply to this. But here's the most important
point. It cannot affect the validity of the handgun
law. If you disagree with us that my statements are not
sufficient to say that we believe that the law should be
read, given the self-defense compulsion, to allow
whatever use makes it functional, if you don't agree
with that and if you think there's a controversy on this
point, because we believe you should have a functional
firearm available in the home of law-abiding citizens
who wish one, if we are wrong about that and the trigger
lock is invalid, that has no effect on the handgun ban.
That is to say, the trigger lock applies to
all weapons. If it's valid and it means what they say
it does, none of the weapons would work. We don't need
a handgun; it's unusable. If it's invalid or if it has
the construction we believe, it cannot possibly affect
the handgun law. If you strike down the trigger lock
law, you're throwing us in the briar patch where we
think it's where we're happy to be if all we have to do
is to make clear in the trigger lock law what we have
said here today, that it's, it's available for
self-defense.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a related
point. Do you understand the ban -- the carry ban to
apply if you carry the firearm from one room in the
house to another?
MR. DELLINGER: That only applies if it's --
if it's unregistered. Now, you can't register a
handgun, you can't carry a handgun, but that's because
its both -- its possession is prohibited. That is to
say you can't carry marijuana or heroin from one room to
the other either, because you can't use it at all, I
think.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is the -- why is
the D.C. law phrased in those terms? In other words, if
you can't have a handgun at all, why do you have a
separate provision saying that you can't carry it
anywhere?
MR. DELLINGER: Well, it's -- it's -- the
carry provision, you cannot carry unregistered firearms.
That's just a general requirement, that firearms be
registered. You're not allowed to register handguns is
the mechanism by which they are prohibited.
Now, here is -- to address your question
about why a ban is unreasonable, the one thing we know
the Second Amendment is not about is it's not about the
interest of collectors. Some people collect guns the
way they do stamps, and if that were what the amendment
were about then prohibiting someone from having a
particular type of gun would prevent them from
completing the set. But the notion --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why isn't that
covered by the provision that you have the right to keep
arms?
MR. DELLINGER: Well, the word "keep" would
encompass -- "keep" can encompass every use of an arm,
and that's why it provides no limit at all, unless you
read it in combination with "keep and bear" and that in
combination with "well-regulated militia."
JUSTICE SCALIA: You mean you can't have any
more arms than you would need to take with you to the
militia? You can't have a -- you can't have a -- you
know, a turkey gun and a duck gun and a 30.06 and a 270
and -- you know, different -- different hunting guns for
different --
MR. DELLINGER: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't do that? I mean
a State could say you don't --
MR. DELLINGER: Of course you could do that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can have to have a 12
gauge and that's it.
MR. DELLINGER: And like the District that
allows that, as every State does. There are --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- at least to me the
question is, what would be the constitutional basis for
insisting on Justice Scalia's suggestion that you need a
number of guns? You have argued, it seems to me, that
the District or a government could prohibit just what he
said, unless you needed one to take to the militia.
MR. DELLINGER: I do not know why that would
pass the reasonableness scrutiny, but this law would
because a powerful, overwhelming case could be made that
you're eliminating the one type of weapon -- this law is
-- is designed only for the weapon that is concealable
and movable, that can be taken into schools and onto the
Metro, can be easily stolen and transmitted among --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm asking about the
constitutional standard you apply to a hypothetical
statute which would prohibit the guns Justice Scalia
described. What is your position as to the validity of
such a hypothetical law?
MR. DELLINGER: You would apply this
standard. You would ask whether the ban is one that's
carefully balanced considerations of gun ownership and
public safety. I don't see how, once we are in the land
where you -- where there is a right, there is a far
weaker case if there is any need for public safety to --
to limit the number of guns one has. Here there is an
overwhelming case and we are talking about local
legislation.
I know, Justice Kennedy, that you would be
concerned about a national government which sets a
single standard for rural and urban areas, for East and
West, North and South. Here you have legislation that
is adopted by a group of citizens in the District,
operating under the authority of Congress, but it is
local legislation. And if it's still good law, that
States and local governments across the country can
strike these balances, as they have, it would be deeply
ironic to preclude the District of Columbia as being the
only place that could enact legislation free of the
strictures of the Second Amendment.
And when you ask about the statistics, what
is critical here is not to apply the kind of categorical
standard the court below did or a kind of strict
scrutiny that would strike this law down. This is an
area, unlike areas where government regulation is
presumptively illegitimate, this text contemplates
regulation of inherently dangerous weapons. And where
the battle -- the great battle over methodology, to
which Justice Breyer replied, in these briefs --
indicates that this is the kind of right -- where you
have disputes among experts, it's a kind of right where
even if you recognize it, deference needs to be given to
the legislative resolution rather than have courts try
to decide how best to resolve the statistical and
methodological debates.
Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dellinger.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:43 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
adoption 15:19 allows 21:19 15:21 32:22 45:19 86:9,24
91:5 advanced 5:18 44:10 4:9 14:8 44:2,19,23
age 76:3,8,9,15 ambiguous 4:9 amici 48:4 52:13 86:22 89:10,14
38:17 ages 55:24 amendment 28:2 applying 18:6
age-of-majority 3:11,18,20,23 analogous 29:4 42:14 45:4
77:23 62:4,24 65:9 11:14,19 12:1 31:4 approaching
69:25 86:3 14:19 15:19 24:19 36:13 appropriate
71:18 31:23 32:1,2,4 69:9 arbitrary 75:5
82:2 42:12,15 47:19 57:15,20,22 35:19 30:4,5 35:3
87:16 48:15 72:16 59:23 61:11 appendix 46:19 37:9 42:8 46:4
86:2 67:17 68:11 application 74:6 80:4,9
17:18 18:15 70:19 71:4,24 61:8 arguments
49:3 27:1 40:7 68:3 73:13 76:21 60:1 arm 3:15 8:1
46:6,20 Articles 66:21 B 35:13 36:6,10 37:16 39:21
55:2 articulate 44:9 back 21:7,25 36:12,18 37:7 70:13,16,17
44:17,22 23:19 34:1 37:18,25 38:14 80:12,19
63:18,18 ascribes 31:24 35:21 53:18 38:19,22,22,23 bills 32:6
88:3 Ashwan 42:14 58:10 61:23 39:3,15,16,17 Blackstone 8:22
55:1 82:8 background 63:22 68:23 58:11 68:9
22:1,8 78:7 82:6 bearing 3:24 4:6 boil 51:11
4:3,6,9,16 63:12 89:16 36:23 37:4,13 19:8 74:25
7:20 assemble 6:9 balances 90:6 37:14 38:9 borne 37:11
assembled 84:16 Baldwin 40:16 bears 8:16 borrowed 33:22
13:22 Assembly 57:14 ban 18:18,20,20 beautifully 7:19 35:12
18:2 assume 7:15,22 19:16 20:19 bed 83:19 Boston 64:22,24
28:22 20:7 25:13,13 23:9,11,15,20 bedroom 42:18 65:3,4
27:18 50:17,22 24:6 25:16,18 began 57:19 branches 52:2
30:2,17 50:23 51:3,4 41:19 46:11,13 behalf 1:16,19 breaking 42:1
33:24 52:10 83:2 46:20,22,23,24 1:21 2:4,6,9,12 Breyer 21:7
35:13,25 assuming 53:1 49:1,25 51:8 3:8 28:1 48:12 25:6,7 50:15
74:16 51:21 52:4,12 51:23 81:25 50:21 52:14
assumption 58:17 59:4 believe 4:17 5:3 53:7,9 58:10
38:2 25:16 64:23 74:14,18 20:8 22:12 59:1 63:21
assure 11:9 74:25 79:23 66:15 72:9 65:8 71:12
assuring 7:11 80:1,2 81:1,5 86:1,5,13 73:21 78:25
52:6,7 attach 54:1 81:17 84:21 believes 84:20 90:18
55:9,12 attempt 30:12 86:8,21,21 84:22 briar 86:15
56:14,15 attention 54:5 87:17 89:15 best 4:4 14:12 brief 5:18 6:5
59:4 attributes 10:8 banned 19:15 85:5 90:23 19:14 39:11
61:5 authorities 85:12 better 9:25 62:25
63:2 29:12 31:12 banning 37:23 11:24 14:7 briefs 37:11
authority 11:3 bans 78:3 79:23 29:2 52:7 51:9 52:3,15
71:6 13:25 31:12,16 bare 81:9 63:14 72:8 65:20 90:18
73:15 31:17 34:15,17 barring 40:23 beyond 18:6 bring 58:22 60:9
80:17 90:3 based 45:24 56:13 69:25 61:5 62:12
88:1,8 authors 73:5 basic 51:1 70:2 76:16 brings 58:10
50:25 72:25 battle 90:17,17 bifurcates 57:15 69:6 73:18
available 26:15 bear 3:19,21 4:3 big 53:11 broad 81:19
11:18 86:6,18 8:10,10,20 17:4,14 33:17 buildings 23:3
31:10 aware 33:11 13:22 17:25 33:21,22 34:2 builds 9:9
69:15 a.m 1:14 3:2 28:22 29:1,16 34:9,13,20 bullet 22:21
80:21 91:4 32:23 33:24 35:6,11,19 bullets 21:5 22:1
45:22 37:24 73:22 76:2,9 55:3 56:8,13 colloquy 39:14
cause 42:25 77:13,17 81:22 56:18,22 57:16 colored 56:15
40:18 86:20 87:6,24 10:25 11:19 49:20,24 50:7
40:10 43:23 71:22 12:1 19:3 24:3 combination
76:5 77:12 citation 49:24 Clement 1:18 commentator
23:23,23 26:14 85:9 citizenry 35:20 29:2,18 30:15 common 5:8
38:2 challenged 9:24 citizens 21:19 31:3,18,21 6:24 9:5,6
74:19 75:1 48:15 86:6 32:15,20 33:6 16:22 22:3,6
86:21,22 challenges 78:4 90:2 33:9,19 34:7 22:17,18 24:8
challenging city 49:11 53:1,4 34:18 35:1 32:24 33:13
53:20 chamber 84:14 city's 24:17 38:3,17,24 59:25 60:10
25:24 change 64:15 civilian 52:6 41:2 42:2,21 63:23 66:20
37:23 chapter 58:7 59:5,9 60:1 43:9,21 44:24 67:9 68:18
41:23 characterizati... 61:16,19 62:13 45:14,23 46:16 78:8
44:9,23 48:5 63:5 47:8,11 48:9 commonly
49:15 checks 75:18 civilians 61:14 60:3 41:20 45:18,18
58:14 Chief 3:3,9 4:11 63:9,20 79:25 closely 6:25 45:20 47:7
82:18 4:17,23 9:12 clarifies 42:9 28:24 60:6
9:16 12:6,16 class 39:24 closest 52:20 commonsense
18:17,24 19:11 clause 4:1,2,10 clumsy 82:23 63:15
25:15 27:22 6:18 7:10,23 41:17,21 65:4 58:5
46:9,16 48:8 12:7,17,22,24 83:25 34:21 80:5,6
60:11 61:10 31:22 32:3 collect 87:19 compelling 44:7
55:17,18,19 constitutionali... 85:11,18 critical 90:11
congressional constitutions count 6:15 crown 17:5
connection 3:22 construction country 4:5 curiae 1:20 2:7
89:6 conscientious contemplates 32:24 57:13,19
18:10 78:16,19 15:18 32:9 court 1:1,13 27:25
20:13 89:16 37:8,10,17,18 14:11 15:5 18:15,22 21:5
18:22 23:10,13 40:14 74:3 22:19 23:8,13 49:10 64:5
12:8 31:6 considering 55:7 62:19 42:9,13 45:1,5 daylight 84:12
69:13,23 35:9 contours 77:24 45:25 47:13,15 dead 51:19
consistent 21:21 78:11 47:17,19,23 deal 31:12 39:21
89:24 35:23 44:1 7:9 50:3 55:1,7,8 dealing 6:14
73:12
72:1 70:20 courts 29:3 49:3 4:20 6:16,17
9:1 12:13 controversial 79:22 90:22 26:22 43:4
39:24 31:9 39:1 40:3 controversy 40:15 59:13,17
90:23
78:13
57:9,12 86:4 covered 22:22 decided 61:19
70:8 71:7 67:21 crawling 42:18 decides 7:24
43:10,25 56:9 36:4 53:10 crime 53:1,4,11 78:1
10:24 79:21 88:22 67:10 69:7,24 78:13
85:21
82:19 83:9 crimes 50:6 declaration
17:10 constitutionali... couched 69:19 51:16 38:14 67:25
48:1 48:1 council 49:11 criminal 24:21 68:12
54:9 32:11 81:23,24 determine 44:10 disasters 9:20 67:16
48:16 84:4,10 85:3,7 20:17 13:16 due 9:7
85:21 86:24 determining discourse 8:17 duplicative 71:1
88:16,19 89:2 developed 44:19 discusses 57:16 63:5
20:10 73:15 63:12 dispute 9:16 78:17 87:7
26:16
32:24 69:17,19 70:24 dictionary 47:3 disputes 90:20 E
38:15,19 demonstrated 59:20 disruption 16:7 E 2:1 3:1,1
66:20,20 75:17 difference 19:3 distinct 69:13 earlier 39:14
68:3 densely 23:4 34:13 43:14,20 distinction 57:23
Department 43:22 35:24 67:16 easily 16:10 71:5
departure 68:11 26:12,23 38:20 29:4 effect 5:19,24
59:20 depends 75:23 84:17 88:11,11 20:12,19 21:19 62:2 76:21
descendants differing 5:16 31:24 38:25 efficiency 12:4
3:6,7,9 descendent 46:2,5 47:14 43:19 46:20,21
5:3,13
59:12 76:15 48:24 49:7,15 eighteenth 37:3
7:1,22 descendents 84:11 49:20,24 50:7
9:3,16
direct 3:11 51:18,24 76:11 50:19 51:15
describe 30:24 directed 46:14 82:13 83:7
87:4
13:17 89:12 32:23 88:19,25 90:2 eligibility 28:7
15:3,5,7 describes 9:4 disagree 85:25 90:7 eligible 56:3
58:11 disagreement District's 72:1 eliminate 55:14
17:1,8 description 51:12 83:3 eliminated
21:25 57:15 disarm 3:15 doable 81:16
19:2
20:2 12:10 29:13,21 disarmament 65:14 elimination
21:2,8,14 57:22 71:24 38:5 domestic 71:13 19:21
22:5 89:6 disarmed 31:6 dormitory 81:6
63:1 6:1 40:19 46:24 69:20 70:11 71:23 72:1,2
evade 29:22 exigencies 36:2 79:6 80:10 86:22
41:10 39:13 77:14 facto 32:7 39:18 48:17,25
everybody 9:21 58:6 failure 69:11 87:12,13
evidence 69:9 expansive 16:17 faithfully 59:19 first 3:18,23 4:9
88:3,3 ex 32:7 expect 63:19 53:23 13:1 25:23
12:15 33:1 expected 56:5 family 8:15 40:20 44:19,20
70:20 33:16 89:18 54:22 56:8,18
68:7,12 examined 53:20 explain 66:16 favorable 51:3,4 58:20 59:19
78:2 explicitly 70:11 Federal 5:9 9:20 63:7 64:24
17:4 28:17,17 29:20 expressions 11:10,17,22 82:2
34:2 36:17 42:24 33:16 13:5,25 14:24 five 26:25
59:10,11 66:25 expressly 14:19 29:22 30:1,12 flatly 74:17
39:21 67:12 69:17 18:12 39:25 31:11,12 43:17 floats 65:10
68:17 72:11 74:10 extended 18:6 43:24 45:19 floor 33:10,12
70:16 40:18 45:12 extraordinary felons 40:23 focusing 52:15
72:16 27:17 felt 56:25 follow 60:14
exclusive 29:10 F finding 81:15 food 54:9
30:17 exclusively fact 19:9 22:24 finished 73:20 force 75:15
27:11 29:9 41:5 45:9 fire 42:20 64:5 forces 7:7 30:7
57:3 53:24 56:10 given 28:20 30:6 70:5 23:11 25:12
39:13 G 3:1 90:21 grant 37:6 38:9 45:21 46:1,10
28:3,13,23 56:10 70:2 90:2 gun-related
31:3,18,21 goes 19:12,13 9:2,4 17:5,10 Gura 1:21 2:8
8:25 36:14,24 37:6 84:13 guarantees 55:14 56:2,19
30:25 38:3,17,24 going 15:22 20:23 28:6 56:24 57:10
41:10 39:7 40:12,22 24:25 27:18 Guard 46:8 58:2,25 59:3,8
57:2 41:2 42:2,21 30:18 34:1 guess 50:1 51:18 59:11 60:5,22
68:8 43:9,21 44:24 37:2,3 42:20 52:23 61:18 62:10,18
77:22 47:8,11 48:8,9 51:5 54:11,11 59:18 63:13,14 65:25 66:9,15
48:19 59:15 56:23 65:10 guide 68:19,19 66:23 67:5,11
27:20 87:13 79:20,22 80:18 33:16 68:18,25 69:7
58:17 generally 15:21 84:15 guidepost 54:17 69:16 70:6
85:15 Goldwater 48:5 gun 16:14 20:13 71:17,25 72:7
generis 45:4 51:9,10 52:16 25:25 26:21 74:20 75:4,12
26:13,15 53:12 70:2 government 46:8 50:10 78:14,19,24
72:24 9:20 11:8,10 52:23 57:24 79:5,19 80:10
10:7,10 20:21 13:6,25 20:10 61:12,21 62:5 81:22
49:25 29:14,19 34:1 27:20 30:12 75:9 82:11,11 H
66:5 34:7 43:7,12 33:24 46:3,4 82:22 83:1,3 Hampshire
84:22 43:22 45:10 55:21 59:4 83:10 87:22 73:14
54:21 55:22 69:5,14 75:12 88:10,10 89:16 hand 63:3,8
24:5 62:5 74:12,20 88:25 89:24 71:12,14 23:1 51:8 52:4
74:7,12 give 29:19 64:15 16:10 90:5 20:25 21:1,4 78:23 80:6
20:24 21:20 illegitimate 9:14,24 14:11 interested 67:22
23:25 24:10,16 90:15 14:17,21,23 interesting 48:4
42:1 49:9,22 imagine 59:12 25:11 28:6 30:24
22:25 65:5 66:5,13 59:24 61:21 32:6,14 33:4 interfere 13:25
26:19 71:19 72:22 imbue 29:8 35:10 36:1 interfered 9:23
46:23 84:23 85:2 impede 52:13 50:24 52:12 interferes 5:10
51:22 86:6 implementation 53:16 67:22,24 intermediate
53:4 homeowner 75:25 69:12 73:16 44:1 51:6
59:15 62:17 78:23 implicit 12:13 individually interpret 67:12
64:13,25 homes 6:10 importance 5:22 55:2 68:21
78:18 48:16 81:18 important 5:14 individuals interpretation
80:1 homicide 80:5 5:23 8:23,23 26:18 29:13 5:16 6:13
85:12 homicides 51:15 12:19 27:1,3 71:6 21:16 66:25
honestly 32:12 57:1 78:6 inferred 80:25 67:15 83:9
62:24 64:22 80:22 inform 77:23,24 66:24
78:14,21,24 inadequate informing 62:20 interstate 81:2
47:7 64:2 86:23 includes 5:1,4 40:20 invalid 86:8,12
hunt 36:9,18 44:13 48:17 76:24 invocable 5:9
37:24 Indian 8:15 Institute 48:5 issue 3:16 9:15
37:14 idea 50:1,6 62:1 5:23 39:14 30:23 21:23 46:7
72:19 ides 13:4 32:21 27:4 44:7,7 76:6 85:11,14
31:16,20 32:8 88:14,17,21,23 18:3,21 22:3 9:17,22,23
33:6,8,15,19 90:18,25 91:1 24:6 26:1 15:25 17:18
39:4,19 K 56:15 60:10 33:17 34:14
73:25 40:21,25 41:4 6:21 7:20 8:10 64:9 65:15,21 58:12,13 63:17
41:15 42:2,16 8:20 17:25 69:3 71:20 64:1,4 68:4,18
44:5,24 45:6 29:11,15,16 77:23 80:1 74:25 75:4
46:9,17 47:2,9 35:13,25 36:5 kinds 17:12 82:7,25 83:3
67:14 48:23 50:15,21 38:6,14,18,21 55:11 74:5 86:1,14,15,17
79:7 52:14 53:6,7,8 38:22,23 39:3 knew 7:15 41:10 87:7 89:3,5,13
53:9,13,25 53:2 56:14 knob 83:20 90:4,13
55:11,22 56:6 63:21 64:1,2 10:12 22:7,7 49:23 50:14
4:11,17 59:10 60:2,11 71:5 73:15 44:21 45:20 39:13,25 40:23
5:12 6:4 60:13 61:10,25 80:17 87:25 47:17 52:21 43:17 50:10
7:8 8:4 62:4,15,21 88:2,3,5 57:21 63:25 72:10 74:3,10
9:12 63:21 65:8 keeping 4:8 73:24 77:6,17 75:15 79:12
10:1,3,7 66:7,12,16 35:24 65:5 79:17 83:4 82:13
67:2,7,14,23 Kennedy 5:12 87:17 88:10,11 law-abiding
12:6 68:10,15,22 6:4,12,23 8:4,8 89:2,23 21:19 48:15
13:13,18 69:2,8,16,21 8:13 13:13,18 knowledge 86:6
15:4,6 70:6 71:9,12 16:12,24 19:22 75:14 leave 7:3
16:12 71:21 72:4 19:24 20:4 leaving 58:17
21:9 25:5 30:9 L leeway 20:21
17:3,9
74:12,20,24 30:15,20 31:3 lamp 83:19 84:2 64:16,20
19:11 75:8 76:2,9,20 33:15,19 40:25 land 89:17 left 8:12 11:20
20:4 77:1,8,13,17 41:5 57:7,18 language 4:8 legislation 10:6
21:7,9 78:12,16,22,25 58:2 59:6 15:24 46:18 17:23 27:11,13
79:2,13 80:3 61:25 62:15,21 70:17 27:14 89:22
80:23 81:4,9 80:23 88:21 large 34:24 90:1,4,8
81:13,22 82:1 89:9,23 late 76:19 legislative 34:6
25:2,5,6,7 82:7,9,15,16 kept 12:20 14:16 lately 48:18 34:17 56:9
27:22 82:18,25 83:8 key 8:2 84:14,14 Laughter 39:6 90:22
83:18,22 84:1 kidding 84:11 50:20 84:3 legislature
64:19 list 70:18 lot 22:8 23:1 84:17,19 91:5 60:4 61:14,17
listed 12:21 43:12 matters 6:15 61:20 63:4,12
little 46:5 48:20 machine 21:1,4 33:20 37:5,25 6:20 7:11,12
26:13 64:11,11 65:5 46:23,25 47:21 63:22 69:22,24 11:20,25 12:4
18:9 57:1 loading 24:11 61:8,12,21,24 75:25 79:11 12:21,23,24
74:16,19 27:13,14,14 81:1 meaning 28:11 14:1,6,8,13,25
89:21 90:4,5 Madison 3:22 29:23 31:24 14:25 15:24
lock 42:4,7,13 11:4 31:25 38:7 16:9 20:9
75:4 82:21 83:6,10 73:11 49:23 68:23 27:6 28:8,12
83:13 84:19 main 9:13 57:8 86:10 30:8 31:6,10
64:17 locked 41:25 maintained 31:7 55:23 59:22 45:17 47:6
locks 73:24 major 62:2 measures 80:2 50:25 53:24
69:22 74:22 75:4,6 46:4 80:4,9 mention 67:17 56:16,25 57:3
83:8,9 84:9 males 55:24 67:19 57:16 58:19
88:4 longer 13:15 managed 7:13 mentioned 60:8,20 61:1
80:17 manner 75:5 71:12 62:2,6,7,11,11
54:21,22 30:19 36:17 marijuana 87:3 methodological 69:4,15,23
72:12 44:12 54:17 marketplace 90:24 70:8,21 71:1,2
57:14 59:21 44:14 77:18 methodology 88:6,9 89:1
79:21 65:20 67:23 Massachusetts Metro 89:8 4:14,16 7:15
27:6 70:11 75:22 65:11 66:8 military 3:25 11:11 14:20
41:9 68:5 76:13 77:11 67:1 4:7 7:7 8:11,20 15:1 18:1 38:1
61:22 looks 44:16 77:7 16:20 53:17,22 52:1,2,4,6,8,11 militia-related
loop 84:13 80:6,16 84:6,8 52:13,15 53:2 4:10 8:2
8:1 11:5 12:25 notice 53:18,22 Oh 28:23 33:9 ordinary 48:17
29:16 27:11,16 46:7 58:19 38:17 58:2 60:7 63:9
69:14 70:4 notion 23:20 okay 15:4 39:7 organization
54:25 79:10 89:24 24:23 26:23 48:22 75:2,3 31:13
nationwide 47:15 60:9 omitted 28:11 organize 3:15
76:10 87:23 once 7:22 16:7 13:7,16 26:22
Nation's 81:19 notwithstandi... 20:16 23:1 organized 10:18
62:1 natural 9:20 41:5 42:8 46:19 26:22
63:1 naturally 37:8 nowadays 47:7 47:3,4 59:19 originally 66:9
nature 3:16 5:7 nub 15:2 89:17 ought 18:5,10
26:21 36:2 49:19 51:18 open 11:21 overinclusive
43:8 7:25 20:4 53:3 numerical 83:23 operable 72:20 89:4,21
need 7:19 24:24 numerous 52:1 operating 90:3 ownership
needed 31:1 object 80:11 8:5 29:8 41:9 P 3:1
27:14 90:21 53:2 75:6 21:25 22:2 panoply 43:17
50:5 obsolescence 45:5,15,25 parallel 35:11
52:24 obtain 74:18 47:14 48:3 61:11
new 3:13 10:15 32:17,22 34:9 opportunity 39:25 40:1
newspapers occurred 73:18 49:5,13 34:15,17 39:22
night 43:2 odd 4:12 55:16 option 31:7 41:8 16:21 18:8
53:14 58:22 ordinances particular 11:22
24:6 55:1 87:19 37:13 72:18 19:8 20:24 premised 69:11
people's 7:17 83:12 90:8 55:3 60:6 69:13
26:14 79:25 plain 15:24 possessing 40:23 preparedness
perfectly 7:14 plan 61:1 possession 7:25 52:5
permissible plausible 7:14 41:19 43:17 present-day
74:3 permit 50:7 48:14 possibility 25:8 60:19 73:1
person 3:20 4:5 point 9:13 24:19 possible 7:6 preserving
33:8 14:12,14 16:2 48:24 49:25 powder 64:3,11 presumptively
66:18 16:5 18:8,9,13 61:13 62:15 71:20 90:15
70:4 19:5 73:1 76:13,15 79:6 power 3:14 presupposed
petition 33:23 80:20 85:24 10:24 13:1,7 11:18
petitioners 1:5 pointed 29:11 69:14 70:5 61:19
5:2 70:12 81:25 points 40:13 practical 43:14 24:11 42:14
6:8,21 phrase 3:18,21 police 42:25 practice 5:14 72:3 87:22
8:3 13:2,3 3:24 4:13,18 50:13 64:7 52:22 pre-existing
4:18,21 8:2,10 policies 79:23 practices 77:22 40:4,8,18
25:12 8:20,20 26:10 policy 49:10 78:9 pre-law 46:25
31:1 32:23 36:6,12 79:21 80:13,16 praise 57:17 pre-1976 46:22
35:15,16 37:17 policymakers pre 46:24 principal 33:23
36:7 phrased 87:7 79:17,19 preamble 4:25 45:24 56:11,12
51:14 phrases 38:4 polity 5:5 28:15,17 30:19 principally
52:5,21 44:6 populated 23:4 41:6 27:10
55:2,13 pick 84:2 portions 49:18 precisely 17:12 principle 63:1
picked 44:21 poses 23:4 29:12 35:5 principles 6:8
56:3,14 piece 74:13 position 10:4 preclude 17:6 42:15
58:3,20 82:22 13:15 21:22 90:7 private 36:16
61:4 pistol 22:10 62:6 24:18 28:14 preeminent 41:6 probably 28:23
62:12 72:6 85:6 29:20 43:23 preexisting 31:5 32:22
66:5 pistols 23:17 48:24 80:24 39:15,17 43:11 50:18
71:1 58:22,23 64:10 82:4 89:12 preface 6:6 62:5
75:22 65:1,4,5 positive 9:17 preliminary problem 47:10
81:18 place 27:18 possess 16:1 28:10 53:11 74:4,22
71:24 20:5,6,7,9 quite 13:22 19:3 29:10 36:15
59:22 62:20 56:11,12 57:4 quote 3:24 9:8 reason 52:1
protecting 3:19 66:1,2 71:23 78:22
66:4 protection 16:8 14:17 19:20,22 R 3:1 9:15 18:18,19
89:11 protective 14:9 24:13 25:19 raise 25:10 19:10 21:17
50:12 57:22 66:6 68:23 ranges 52:23 39:18 48:7
protestants 72:20 85:9,17 rate 53:1,4 51:1,2,23
provide 43:5 77:8 82:21 ratifier 57:13 64:17 66:3
46:12 provision 4:13 Rawle 57:11,12 77:10,14 79:16
65:5 21:15 24:14 Q reaction 13:11 81:1 82:2
34:22 41:17 23:24 10:4 9:10 18:14
50:9 56:9,10 qualify 60:3 22:2 23:23 78:10 82:6
84:24 21:12 29:4 35:9 36:4 41:4 10:5 12:7,9 84:6
30:2 32:9 42:3 43:19 29:15 38:16 reassemble 72:6
35:11 38:5 53:25 58:11 76:21 84:2 25:1,4 81:24
32:1,2,4 71:11,18 73:4 76:20 79:2,14 53:3 recognize 69:12
44:6 73:7 80:14 79:14 83:4 reaffirm 5:25 90:21
provocation 85:14 87:16 6:8 57:8 recognized
public 18:8 19:4 51:17 reaffirming record 69:9 81:8
15:22 pull 83:15 81:19 reaffirms 6:7,10 24:12 72:17
27:16 purpose 5:21 questioning real 16:6 21:10 red 5:18
31:14 7:5 10:18,21 57:19 62:16 redefine 55:18
57:23 14:8 19:6 20:5 quick 21:10 really 4:19 5:1 refer 3:21 66:18
60:19 31:22 48:7 53:15 57:24 58:3,5,9
42:12 resisted 7:13 78:21 79:7 60:24 64:2
36:10 relevance 62:16 resolution 90:22 80:20 81:20 65:21,22 67:22
66:22,24 62:18 resolve 90:23 revolt 69:5 68:16 69:12
35:14 35:7,9 37:14 37:15 41:12,13 revolutionary 72:25 73:1,2
40:3,4 religious 4:2 48:25 74:4 revolver 53:21 74:5,7,13,17
66:19 religiously 4:5 respects 27:4 rifle 24:10 85:5 76:22,25 77:25
57:9 Respondent 26:15 51:22 90:19,20
24:25 Respondents 63:10 12:8,11,12,17
73:11 78:7 51:23 59:1,3 4:23 5:1,7,8,9 17:14,15 28:22
26:1,7,9 57:4 responsive 6:9,21 7:20 8:2 32:6 33:17,21
remote 8:14 27:13 8:8,24 9:5,6,7 33:22 34:2,9
18:15 removed 27:4 restrict 5:1 14:14,14,15,15 38:23 39:21
25:19 render 4:6 7:6 restricted 13:24 14:23 15:23,24 53:16 54:10,13
31:13 50:2,7 restricting 16:1,2,5,9,15 67:24,25 68:12
65:17,23 rendering 3:25 43:17 16:18 17:19 70:13,16,18
66:4 repeal 13:14 restriction 34:3 18:4,7,9,12,25 76:18 80:12,19
90:14,16 repeatedly 44:15 46:10 19:5,16 20:8 risk 64:12,14
39:18 replied 90:18 77:18 25:9,11 26:13 ROBERTS 3:3
44:12 report 58:20 restrictions 9:7 28:6,21,25 4:11,23 9:12
46:19 34:6 40:6 32:14,14 33:4 18:24 19:11
79:10 41:21 72:10 78:10 80:18 34:18 35:10,12 27:22 44:5
16:21 requirement 16:25 17:4 38:14,21,22 54:8 60:11
40:13 54:6 74:15,18 result 44:3 39:14,15,16,16 61:10 71:9,21
62:5 75:21 87:13 resulted 69:10 39:23 41:11,16 72:4 76:2,9
requirements resulting 3:17 44:11,16 50:22 77:13,17 81:22
requiring 76:7 retake 11:2 51:20 52:12,16 83:8,22 84:1,8
reserved 12:11 reverting 70:20 55:17,18,20 86:20 87:6,24
26:3,7 29:11 54:18,19 55:9 86:2,19 significance
79:7 47:9 48:20,23 67:3,17 68:11 63:24 65:17 similar 15:7
88:7,14,17 90:9 70:25 87:9 12:12 40:7
Scalia's 88:23 84:10 served 11:14 63:17 72:21
scope 3:16 5:6 75:1 4:7 11:22 27:6 slightly 58:16
44:11,15 secure 6:9 28:7 36:3 slower 48:20
scruples 4:2 see 4:20 6:16,18 87:23 somebody 36:22
89:17,19 scrutiny 35:4 47:19 49:18 settler 8:14 43:1 83:20
72:12 89:3 74:9 75:18 shipment 81:1 52:10 61:9,20
seat 27:15 seen 66:10,11 12:24 79:16 81:7
14:23 7:4,9 8:5,9,18 self 24:24 72:17 35:25 36:11
24:22 9:17 10:5,23 self-defense short 10:3,4 sources 37:12
50:15 11:14,19 12:1 8:24 24:21 shotgun 23:25 Souter 14:22
87:9 12:10 13:13,14 41:3,16,20 24:10 85:8 15:4 17:3,9
19:20 16:17 20:18 49:14,22,23 26:15 41:21,24 36:15,21 37:2
41:21 25:10,13,13,16 50:14 65:6,8 63:10 81:2 37:19 39:4,19
46:19 27:20 28:5 66:6,17,18,22 show 85:10,18 56:21 69:8,16
60:16,16 29:23 30:3,13 67:9,18,20 showing 19:18 69:21 70:6
31:23 32:1,25 68:6 69:12,20 19:25 26:15 78:12,16 79:2
33:1 38:18 69:22 71:19 85:8 79:13 80:3
17:22 41:13 46:6 79:25 80:6 side 11:25 14:7 so-called 49:3
22:6,14 47:20 49:13 84:23 85:2,5,9 24:18 37:9 spate 50:6
state 3:15 4:14 step 26:19 70:3 80:4
56:16 11:2,10,17 28:9,14,19,25 36:25 surprising 3:14
13:9 14:20 31:16,20 32:8 submitted 91:3 13:6
50:9 20:12,20 21:12 38:13,21 39:23 subsequent susceptible 45:8
21:15 25:9 53:25 54:4 41:23 48:3
37:17 32:9,21 48:6 67:2,7,14,23 suddenly 65:13 47:15
43:16 66:20,23 67:6 68:10,15 73:2 sufficient 86:1 sustained 20:16
67:7 69:4 81:4 73:8,9 76:20 suggest 22:23 82:3
statement 49:18 stolen 89:8 suggested 6:24 sync 4:19
60:8 85:25 storage 72:8,10 suggesting
72:24 states 1:1,13,20 72:14,15 79:15 T
20:11,15 51:14 52:24 40:9 43:13,15 22:20 34:23 79:3,18 82:4
39:5,8 64:16 66:17 44:2 45:8,12 68:3,4
83:9,10
41:18
70:1,21 45:12 48:6 summary 49:16 85:16 88:8
43:15,18 73:14,25 76:17 72:12 90:12 supplement 89:1
90:5 strictly 46:22,24 13:20 taken 23:2 31:1
51:6 State's 75:15 stricture 80:19 supplemented 57:11 89:7
58:16 State-managed strictures 90:9 13:21 takes 83:16 84:9
66:4 7:12 strike 86:14 supplementing talk 35:3 37:5
75:10 State-only 9:21 90:6,13 13:18 39:4,8 43:12
89:10,15 State-organized striking 39:22 supplied 60:10 48:20
90:12 30:7 46:13 61:5 talked 47:16
74:13,14
75:6
78:13 79:3,5,8 structure 71:7 67:24 70:22 15:17 17:25
90:10 students 81:5,10 72:20 36:15 60:20
41:8 43:10 58:19 subject 6:15,23 39:22 77:19 89:21
statutes 29:12 45:6 56:4 25:3 32:11 tell 57:18 84:4,5
29:7 30:4,17 times 41:25 trouble 63:16 unconnected
30:17 34:4,8 35:4,5,8 50:11 52:19 true 9:13 35:1 understand 12:9
47:22 36:19 37:9,14 62:17 63:9,24 72:7 42:16 52:21
37:18 38:3,4,6 64:12 71:19 trust 72:21 54:5 61:12
25:19 39:10,13,24 today's 30:7 90:22 70:1,3 83:1
69:20 40:24 41:9 told 60:3 trying 51:11 86:21
42:4,8,22 43:9 tomorrow 55:19 73:11 understanding
46:2,4,12,16 total 18:18,20 Tuesday 1:10 understandings
47:12,14,21 23:9,15,20 turkey 88:10 78:9
28:6 76:7,15 79:13 tradition 78:8 7:19 14:4 undetectable
41:9 57:8 80:21 81:13 traditional 78:9 25:22 27:4 59:15
86:4,16 87:5 train 5:10 28:22,24 29:4 undisputed
thinking 55:22 trained 9:22 32:14 33:22 49:18
thought 8:22,23 65:22 40:13 42:3 27:10
22:2 37:4,21 translation 52:3,15 55:4 44:4
90:25 thousand 22:12 39:20 66:17 67:8 unique 35:2
74:9 transmitted 84:6 United 1:1,13,20
58:16 three-digit treatise 57:12 type 19:13 21:23 76:17
87:17 83:15 58:8 41:19 47:6 universal 24:20
50:17 throwing 86:15 13:11 62:20 63:2 university 81:5
68:23 Thursdays tribes 8:15 78:21 79:24 unloaded 41:24
76:17 75:24 trigger 42:4,7 87:22 89:5 72:2 82:12,19
time 13:1 15:9 42:13 43:3,5 types 75:17 83:1,6
9:25 11:1 25:1 42:17 82:7,11,12,17 unlocking 24:11
12:1 44:13 47:15 82:21,21,23 U unmistakably
15:7,10 57:23 60:13,15 83:6,10,12 ultimately 63:13 69:19
16:16,19 60:17,17,18,21 84:19 85:13,14 69:10 unmodified 37:7
17:20 60:22 61:6,6 85:15 86:7,9 unamended unmoor 16:7
19:9,25 61:11,15,18,19 86:14,17 31:11 unprotected
63:16,25 64:25 trigger-lock unanimously 55:9
28:10 66:12 67:5 71:10,15,18 7:2,4 unquote 20:17
52:25 2:3,11 3:7 22:3 23:21 wished 60:24,25
77:5,6 V 81:24 24:6,23 30:7 wishes 62:19
v 1:6 want 14:16 41:19 47:6 wolves 8:16
77:3 valid 86:10 39:2,4 46:2 65:15 84:16,23 wondered 25:7
87:12 89:12 53:10 57:20 weaponry 63:4 63:4
various 38:3 73:23,25 75:9 7:18 9:5,8 13:3 29:12 38:5
89:25 versions 82:20 75:22 65:2 79:24,24 71:13 85:1
viable 31:7 41:8 54:12 81:5 Webster 59:20 work 16:13
9:5,22 49:8,12 57:11 1:16,19 49:6 14:20 25:24 worried 45:21
12:2 57:12,21 72:13 72:19 74:10 26:20 60:20 65:23
16:2,5 73:4,23 77:2 78:17 88:6 worry 46:17
17:24 viewed 25:19 wasn't 12:20 went 32:19 worth 41:10
19:5 viewing 16:4 20:21 37:22,22 69:25 wouldn't 4:15
24:8,15 views 58:15 wave 64:8 weren't 17:25 21:6 22:22
36:8 violate 80:19 way 4:12 7:15 64:6 30:16 43:11
40:9 83:2 7:18 13:23 West 90:1 47:19 60:2
51:22 violated 10:16 14:9,13 22:2 We'll 25:3 64:21 70:6
53:22 73:17 26:22 29:25 we're 9:5 34:1,5 75:2 77:8
59:5,9 violent 50:6 30:19 31:4,14 62:1 66:12 wounded 51:15
61:6 Virginia 70:13 34:19 36:14,16 86:16 51:20
63:5 70:16,23 37:5 47:9,12 we've 6:1 40:7 write 6:5
65:22 Virginia's 70:12 56:24 64:18 66:10,10 74:13 writing 30:23
72:17 virtually 10:24 67:12 68:16 74:14 80:16 52:3
80:7 31:12 70:7 73:17 whatnot 69:13 written 15:21
87:4 88:3 vision 75:16 75:23 77:9,11 whatsoever wrong 86:7
45:17 volunteers 13:5 87:20 whichever 63:18 Wyoming 76:10
61:13 voted 71:3 weak 79:9 wilderness
voting 76:18 weaken 52:4 30:11 57:24 X
69:1 weaker 89:19 William 57:11 x 1:2,8
78:1 27 2:7
3
1:6 3:4 3 2:4 83:16
3-22-95 83:20
69:15 70:5 3:00 75:24
51:20 30-caliber 53:21
81:23 30.06 88:10
1:14 3:2 300 22:16 51:19
51:14
4
70:19 40 79:23
91:4 42 15:11 18:10
88:17 45 55:25,25
11:19 31:10 48 2:9
11:19 31:10
32:3
5 80:21
47:1 50 19:7,9 48:15
16:18 53a 46:18
67:24 6
55:25 70:17 60s 76:19
83:14 634 65:4
66:15
63:25 7
57:14 70a 49:17
80:7
61:23 8
80:7 8 3:12 11:18
1:10 76:3,8 12:17 31:10
65:3 32:2
57:11 80 51:9 79:25
66:25 67:2 80,000 51:14,17
53:19 81 2:12
21:21
49:5 9
32:5
51:20
51:19
43:24
