IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
WILLIAM CRAWFORD, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 07-21
MARION COUNTY ELECTION :
BOARD, ET AL.; :
and :
INDIANA DEMOCRATIC PARTY, :
ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 07-25
TODD ROKITA, INDIANA :
SECRETARY OF STATE, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 9, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioners.
THOMAS M. FISHER, ESQ., Solicitor General, Indianapolis,
Ind.; on behalf of the Respondents.
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
THOMAS M. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 31
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States,
supporting the Respondents 51
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 62
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in Case 07-21 and 07-25, Crawford v. Marion
County Election Board and Indiana Democratic Party v.
Secretary Rokita.
Mr. Smith.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SMITH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case involves a law that directly
burdens our most fundamental right, the right to vote.
Those Indiana voters who lack the identification now
required by the new photo ID law must overcome
substantial practical and financial burdens before they
can continue to exercise their constitutional right.
Now, the State says that those burdens are justified by
the need to stamp out the scourge of voter impersonation
fraud at the polls, but this Court has made clear many
times that such a justification should not just be
accepted at face value, but instead it should be
scrutinized to assure that the claimed State interest is
both real and sufficiently weighty to justify the burden
being imposed on constitutional rights.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Before -- before we get to
that, can we talk about standing a little? Who are
the -- who are the complainants here?
MR. SMITH: There are many plaintiffs, Your
Honor, including the ones that the courts below found
have standing, the Democratic Party.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Courts below are sometimes
wrong.
MR. SMITH: Yes, Your Honor, absolutely, and
especially when I'm a petitioner I agree with you on
that. But in this case, Your Honor, the Democratic
Party was found to have standing correctly, I believe,
on at least two grounds, associational standing as well
as what you might call haven standing, the
organizational interest being impaired by virtue of this
law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, they still have to
identify individuals who are members. Now, what does it
take to be a member of the Democratic Party here?
MR. SMITH: Your Honor, in Indiana you
become a member of the Democratic Party by participating
in party affairs. They did identify members who are
activists, who are poll workers, and that's why the
district court said that as, as to the equal protection
claim those people were sufficient to satisfy
associational standing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought -- I thought they
took the position that anybody who voted or intended to
vote Democratic is a member of the Democratic Party.
MR. SMITH: Well, there are different
degrees of membership, different ways to become a
member, as this Court has recognized --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there any way in which
you can say -- and I thought this was the theory of
associational standing -- that this individual has
voluntarily given this organization the right to
represent that person for particular purposes?
MR. SMITH: There is no formal method of
induction as you would have in the Elk's Club or
something, Your Honor. But there clearly are methods by
which you become a participant in the affairs of the
party. For example, to vote in the primary you have to
aver that you have either supported Democratic
candidates in the last election or intend to in a future
election.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that doesn't mean that
I'm willing to have the Democratic Party represent me
for all sorts of purposes. And these people can bring
their own individual challenges. I mean, I'm not
questioning their ability to do it. But, but why is the
Democratic Party their representative?
MR. SMITH: Because they have -- the
Democratic Party is an association of people joined
together to elect candidates of a particular kind and
those people include many people who are burdened by
this law. This seems to be the absolutely
quintessential case for associational standing, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: As I understand it, though,
Mr. Smith, the trial court didn't rely on, simply on the
associational standing of the Democratic Party, did it?
MR. SMITH: No, that's correct, Your Honor.
Well, the court of appeals relied as well on Havens
Realty and said that the organizational interests of the
party are being impaired by virtue of the fact that this
is putting a burden on them achieving their goal, the
Democratic Party's goal, of electing its candidates.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And is doing so by forcing
them to get people properly identified.
MR. SMITH: Extend resources getting people,
get their identification. It's very much like the
Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority case which we
cited in our brief, which involved a nonprofit
organization aimed at trying to keep the noise level
down at National Airport that was impaired by an
unconstitutional statute in that case as well.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That organization had
members. I mean, you did join that organization.
MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And they identified members
who would be, who would be annoyed by the noise.
MR. SMITH: I'd note, Your Honor, that in
the Hunt case itself there were no members. The Court
said it doesn't really matter because the State agency
that had associational standing in Hunt functioned for
all purposes as the representatives of those, of those
apple farmers, but there was no formal membership
organization, no members per se at all. But the Court
said that shouldn't make a difference because there's
really no actual functional difference between the two
situations. I would certainly submit --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just think it's hard to
confine your rationale if you say that any association
could sue. If it says, you know, there are people that
if they knew what we were doing, if they knew this
problem they would really want us to sue on their
behalf, I don't know if I'm going to confine your
rationale.
MR. SMITH: Well Your Honor, the thing that
confines the rationale is it has to be something that
relates as well to the purpose of the organization, of
the association, the reason why these people are bound
together as a group, and that is of course to get people
to vote and vote to support -- support the goals of the
organization, support the candidates, the nominees of
the organization.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We can limit your
standing argument to -- I guess it's based on the
affidavits of Ms. Holland and Ms. Smith, the one who is
a clerk for the Democratic Party and the other who is a
judge for the Democratic Party. We don't have to agree
with you that anybody who votes, might vote Democratic,
is enough to give you standing.
MR. SMITH: But we also have other people in
the record, Your Honor -- for example, Theresa Clemente,
others who are active poll workers, activists in the
party, who -- had been polled and found that they didn't
have IDs and that they would be burdened by the
difficulty of getting IDs. So that that -- there is
specific standing evidence in there of specific people
who, much more than just your average voter, are active
in party affairs. They may not have a -- be
card-carrying members of the Democratic Party, but they
are as much a part of the Democratic Party as anybody
possibly could be, who were identified in response to
interrogatories, about 9 or 10 of them, and were found
to be satisfactory for purposes of standing by the
district court on the equal protection claim.
Now, in addition I would note as I suggested
to Justice Souter, you don't have to go to the
associational standing because the Democratic Party
clearly is injured in its own right as an organization.
Now, if I could turn to the merits then, the
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Even in its own
right, it has to identify somebody that's a member or
not.
MR. SMITH: No. When it's in its own right
the association, the organization, is injured, Your
Honor. Now, the question -- if what you're suggesting,
is there enough evidence here that people are actually
being prevented from voting?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly, Democrats in
particular, I suppose.
MR. SMITH: A great deal of evidence in the
record of the burdens that are imposed on people who try
to comply with this law and continue exercising their
constitutional right to vote.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I understood
Judge Barker to say that you had not come up with a
single instance of somebody who was denied the right to
vote because they didn't have a photo ID.
MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, the record in
this case was made when an election had not yet
happened. So that comment, while it was certainly made,
I don't quite understand its significance. This case
was brought to try to prevent an irreparable loss of
constitutional rights in advance of the implementation
of this law. I think it had been used in two little
towns in '05, Montezuma, Indiana, but other than that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So elections were
conducted under this law?
MR. SMITH: I'm not even -- there were a
couple of hundred people that had voted under the law,
but nobody else had yet, at that point. Now, the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, did you have anybody
who said, I don't have a voter ID?
MR. SMITH: Yes, we did, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I plan to come in this next
election, I plan to vote, and I don't have a voter ID
card?
MR. SMITH: Yes, we did, Your Honor. That's
the 9 or 10 people who came from the poll worker survey.
There was also a considerable amount of testimony about
other people who said they wanted to vote, who spoke to
many of the other plaintiffs, Mr. Crawford, the NAACP
chapter. There's a lot of other plaintiffs who also
submitted evidence of people saying: I don't have an
ID, I'm not going to be able to get one, I'm not going
to be able to vote.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But why -- and
they're not going to be able to get one even though the
State will provide them with one if they don't have one,
subject to some identification?
MR. SMITH: Yes, Your Honor. But what the
State did in 2002 was it ratcheted up the difficulty of
getting one by requiring for the first time that you
have an original certified birth certificate that you
paid for and that -- and then you have to go through the
hoops of what kind of identification you need for that.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, is it your position
that a State can't require any form of identification
and can only require a signature, or would some lesser
form of identification than Indiana has required be
constitutional?
MR. SMITH: Your Honor, it may well be
possible that there's certain situations that it could
require it. Each case is a balancing test. As the
Court said in Timmons, you have to make hard judgments
on the specific facts of each case and identify both the
State interest being served, the incremental State
interest being served, and the degree of the burdens.
JUSTICE ALITO: What was the answer to my
question? Is any form of voter identification beyond a
signature permissible or not?
MR. SMITH: If it's readily available and
not especially burdensome and there is some reason to
think that it is preventing a fraud of some sort,
serving some --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But clearly you answer all
of those questions that you've just posed, that you've
just responded with, "no". So then your answer to
Justice Alito should be no.
MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, it is true --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Although that leads to the
next question, is whether or not there are ways in which
the -- the central purpose of this law can be preserved
but it could be less stringent. But I'd like you to
respond to both of those things.
MR. SMITH: Well, it is certainly true that,
in fact, there is no evidence in this record of any
significant amount of fraud that is still occurring with
the existing system of voter identification.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That wasn't -- that wasn't
the problem I had with your answer to that question.
You posed a number of questions to Justice Alito, or a
number of responses, but to each one of those your own
answer in the brief was no, and therefore your question
-- the answer to Justice Alito's question should be no,
there is no system that you know of that can impose a
photo ID.
MR. SMITH: I think -- I think that the
current system works just fine. So if there's any
degree of burden being imposed on the voter by some
additional identification requirement, then I would say
it's unconstitutional.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Smith --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your answer is no.
MR. SMITH: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- suppose at the time of
registration there was a photograph taken right in the
registration place and on the spot they gave you an ID
with that photo, and everybody who registers would get
one and there isn't any question of paying money to get
a birth certificate. Would that be satisfactory? Ir
that -- if you could make a photographic ID universally
available, you would still have the problem of the
religious objectors, but wouldn't everybody else be
covered?
MR. SMITH: If you had a world in which that
were true, Your Honor, I think that would be potentially
constitutional. That's a very different world than the
one we live in, and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That would be
potentially constitutional?
MR. SMITH: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So we should
ignore your religious objection argument in this case?
MR. SMITH: Well, I was assuming that we
would make some additional exemptions for particular
people with those kinds of problems, if people can't
have one. If the question is, if everybody has a photo
ID in their pocket is it constitutional to require them
to show them at the voting booth, the answer to that I
think is yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, do we know that that
religious exemption won't be made?
MR. SMITH: Excuse me, Your Honor?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do we know that that
religious exemption won't be made? Nobody's asserted
it.
MR. SMITH: No, I'm not -- I'm not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no. I mean in this
case. In this case you're claiming there's a problem
for people who, for religious reasons, don't want to
have their photograph taken. Do we know that if that's
the reason that they assert, I can't get the photograph,
the State will say you can't vote?
MR. SMITH: I must be misunderstanding. We
have every reason to think that they will let them vote.
The only problem with that exemption, like the indigency
exception, is that it's kind of gratuitively burdensome
in that you have to go down to the county seat to vote
every time; you can't vote in your polling place because
you have to fill out this affidavit every time you vote.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you could, you could
do it twice. You could make the two trips, one to your
local place and one to the distant place.
MR. SMITH: Either way, your real voting
place is going to be the county clerk's office in the
county seat, forever. That's -- it's not that they
won't do it; it's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how far away
is the furthest county seat for somebody in the county,
MR. SMITH: I don't know the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: County seats aren't
very far for people in Indiana.
MR. SMITH: No. If you're an indigent
person, Your Honor, in Lake County, in Gary, Indiana,
you'd have to take the bus 17 miles down to Crown Point
to vote every time you want to vote. And if you're
indigent that's a significant burden, and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not a burden if you're
not indigent?
MR. SMITH: Well, it's -- it's less of a
burden, Your Honor, considerably less of a burden. You
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: 17 miles is 17 miles for
the rich and the poor.
MR. SMITH: -- public transportation,
because the person presumably has no access to an
automobile because they don't have a driver's license
and they're indigent and they're living in Gary,
Indiana.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We have -- the
record shows that fewer than 1 percent of people in
Indiana don't have a photo ID.
MR. SMITH: That is not what the record
shows, Your Honor, and it's not what the district court
said. I think it's -- it would be really a travesty if
this Court decided the case on that assumption. What
the district court said is if you compare the voting age
population in the census to the total number of driver's
licenses and IDs that have been issued, you get that
disparity of 43,000 or 1 percent, but what the district
court went on to say is this is probably not accurate
because the total of licenses and IDs includes all the
people who have died and left the State and their
licenses are still unexpired.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, so do the
voting rolls. I thought the district court found 41 --
MR. SMITH: No, no. The population --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Smith.
MR. SMITH: So sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- 41.4 percent of
the people on the voting rolls in Indiana were either
dead or they were duplicate entries.
MR. SMITH: But she wasn't looking at the
voting rolls. She was comparing population in the
census as of 2005 with the driver's license records.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you take issue
with the 41.4 percent figure for bad entries on the
voting registration rolls?
MR. SMITH: No, I have no reason to -- it
may have gotten better now. They apparently have
instituted a lot of efforts in the last 3 years to make
it better, but --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And this is one of
them, I suppose, requiring photo ID?
MR. SMITH: No, I was referring to actually
cleaning up the voter rolls in compliance with the
consent decree they signed with the United States.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, don't you
think if you have the voter rolls with a significant
number of bad registrants, either dead or duplicates,
that that presents a significant potential for fraud?
MR. SMITH: I suppose. I don't know if I
can say significant. The situation has existed for now
a number of years, and the salient fact here is that
there's not a single recorded example of voter
impersonation fraud.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's because
it's less of an issue. If somebody wins an election by
500,000 votes, you may not be terribly worried if some
percentage were cast by fraud, but you might look to the
future and realize there could be a closer election and
there -- it's a type of fraud that, because it's fraud,
it's hard to detect.
MR. SMITH: No, it's actually not, Your
Honor. It's the type of fraud that the Elections
Commission said -- found is unlikely, the most unlikely,
because it's not that hard to detect. When you're going
into the polls and saying, I'm Joe Smith, you're dealing
with a neighborhood person who knows a lot of people who
are there, you have to match that person's signature.
And if that person shows up later on to vote --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the problem with
the duplicate entries is there may be two entries for
John Smith because John Smith has moved and the voter
registration hasn't been updated. So all you need is
somebody else to go in and say: I'm John Smith, this is
my address. And later in the day somebody else comes in
and says: I'm John Smith and this is my address. And
because they're duplicates it's really difficult to
check.
MR. SMITH: Well, the duplicates,
presumably, are in two different places, right. So they
would vote in two different places.
But if -- what the -- the fraudfeasor
doesn't know is where the real John Smith is going to
vote. So if he goes in and votes in one place and says,
well, I'm going to -- I expect he's going to go in the
other place, sooner or later, if you had any significant
amount of this kind of fraud occurring, people would be
coming in and saying I can't vote. Somebody says I
already voted.
It's not happening and, indeed, every single
indication in this record is that the evidence of this
kind of fraud occurring, to call it scant is to
overstate it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The people who are dead or
have moved away would certainly not be objecting.
MR. SMITH: No, Your Honor. I was talking
about the disparity between the number of people in the
voting-age population and the number of licenses and
saying you can't assume it's only a one percent
differential. It's actually more like an eight or nine
percent differential.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wasn't talking about
that. I was talking about whether there is a genuine
threat of fraud which the State is moving to eliminate
--
MR. SMITH: The question is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and your assertion that,
you know, it's not much of a problem because the person
whom you're impersonating would find out about it. I
mean -- but that's certainly not the case for people who
have moved away or people, you know, the people in the
graveyards that are still on the rolls.
MR. SMITH: It's certainly possible that
someone could commit this kind of a crime.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'd say likely.
MR. SMITH: Well, one of the things that
makes it less likely is if you try to actually affect an
election you need to sway a lot of votes. And in order
to do that this way you'd have to have 100 or 200 or 500
co-conspirators, each of them assigned an identity,
learning the signature of that person, and --
JUSTICE BREYER: You don't really -- I mean,
that's what I wonder if there is no such evidence. How
could you get evidence? It used to be common maybe
urban legends, but of political bosses voting whole
graveyards of dead people. All right. Now, that would
be almost impossible to catch, I think. Someone walks
in, saying: I'm Joe Smith. He doesn't say: I'm Joe
Smith dead. He says, I'm Joe Smith, and he signs
something. And the poll worker looks at it and the
signature looks very weird.
Well, what's the poll worker supposed to do?
He's not going to go disrupt the election. And is there
going to be a policeman there to follow this person
home? Of course not.
So that's their claim. Their claim is that
we have a lot of anecdotes and there is a certain kind
of fraud that you really just can't catch at the poll.
MR. SMITH: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, what's your response
to that? Because that's their argument on the other
side.
MR. SMITH: First of all, on the point of
the anecdotes, I would encourage you to look at the
Brennan Center brief.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know there are arguments
on both sides. But at the heart of this is what was
Judge Posner's claim and others that this isn't the kind
of fraud that you can just dismiss and say it never
happens because the person would walk into the poll
later and try to vote. What they are talking about is
what Justice Scalia was talking about, and I'm simply
trying to focus your answer on that part of the
question.
MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, many kinds of
fraud do get caught, and they are no more easily
detected than this kind of fraud to be detected. But
this kind of fraud is not being caught. No one has been
punished for this kind of fraud in living memory in this
country. This is not --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, they say that's
because you can't catch it.
MR. SMITH: Well, but Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: How would you catch it,
which is my question.
MR. SMITH: First of all -- first of all,
you talk about deterring it. You deter it by the
signature match, by having to have the same age, by
having to get past people who know a lot of the people
in the precinct, and by having very severe criminal
penalties. And then you have --
JUSTICE ALITO: If this is not a problem at
all, how do you account for the fact that the Commission
on Federal Election Reform that was co-chaired by former
President Carter and former Secretary of State Baker
recommended a voter ID requirement, and many other
countries around the world have voter ID requirements?
MR. SMITH: What they recommended, Your
Honor, is exactly what Justice Ginsburg anticipated,
which is get everybody the cards, and then we'll be like
Europe, and everything will work really fine, and it'll
actually help the poor to have these IDs for a lot of
other purposes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: As I understand, they
were going to have some years in between when their
proposal was enacted, and they were going to have a
mobile unit going around to all the neighborhoods, lots
of advertising, because a premise of that Carter-Baker
report was that everybody would easily and costlessly
get this photo ID.
MR. SMITH: I would encourage the Court to
refer to the Democratic Party Exhibit 18, which is an
article by Carter, President Carter, and Secretary
Baker, following on their report, saying, look, there's
a problem here; that 12 percent of the voting age
population of this country doesn't have a license; we
did not recommend this being a mandatory thing until we
get those licenses in those people's hands.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why would they even
require that if it's not any problem at all? Doesn't it
at least show that it is a problem of some dimension,
maybe not as severe as Indiana claims, but there would
be no need for any sort of photo ID problem,
requirement, if there were no problem whatsoever. Isn't
that true?
MR. SMITH: Some States don't have signature
matches. There may have been a minimal amount of
additional benefit in some States from having that
added. That was a decision they ultimately made, with
some dissents.
The reality, though, is if you do it not
their way, but the Indiana way, which is to say you need
an ID, we're not going to help you get it, in fact we're
going to ratchet up the requirements for making you get
it, and we're going to charge you money for it, then
what you have is a very different system. Then you have
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They help you get
it. They say if you don't have an ID we'll give you
one. If you don't have a photo ID, come in and we'll
give you one.
MR. SMITH: But what the record shows is
that 60 percent of the time, when people go in and ask
for one, they get sent home, because they don't have the
right documentation because the rules --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What documentation
did President Carter and Secretary Baker propose to
require for their photo IDs?
MR. SMITH: Your Honor, I think they were
very strong on having this birth certificate
requirement, as well. So they -- they were talking
about the real ID law and that sort of thing. So I'm
not specific about what the report says on that, but
they certainly thought there should be -- obviously, in
the wake of 9/11 there is some concern about giving out
these things too readily. So I'm reasonably sure they
supported a birth certificate requirement as well.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if you concede that
some kind of voter ID requirement is appropriate, the
problem that I have is where you draw the line on a
record like this where there's nothing to quantify in
any way the extent of the problem or the extent of the
burden, how many people will actually be prevented from
voting or significantly burdened from voting as a result
of the requirement? How do we tell whether this is on
one side of the line or the other side of the line?
MR. SMITH: Well, it is a difficult area of
the law for you for that reason, Justice Alito. But if
you like at Timmons what it says is there's no litmus
test, there's no escaping the hard judgments. This is
the area where the courts have to be not too deferential
even though there are hard judgment calls about matters
of degree, because this is an area where the concern is
that the Legislative Branch and the Executive Branch are
going to abuse their power to regulate the electoral
process to find subtle ways to skew the outcome on
election day.
As John Hard Ely says, this is an area where
judicial review is the most important, the most
legitimate. And so you can't shy away from that even
though there are difficult matters of balancing involved
and --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you're telling us
that, you know, we've got to be careful and it's
difficult. But Justice Alito's question is: What are
we supposed to look at, how are we supposed to do it?
MR. SMITH: You are supposed to look at how
difficult it is to get the ID, what assistance is
provided or not being provided, how much it costs.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Let's get down -- let's get
down to the question of quantification, which is one of
the issues that he raised. What's your response to the
issue that there is no quantification of the actual
burden measured by the number of voters who are going to
be adversely affected? What's the answer to that?
MR. SMITH: The answer is that there's
plenty of evidence in the record about the number of
people in this country who don't have IDs.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, let's talk about
Indiana. What have you got -- what is -- what is your
best argument for Indiana?
MR. SMITH: The best argument for Indiana is
if you take the district court's 43,000 figure and you
adjust it for the two factors, death and departure, that
I mentioned before, the number becomes more like 400,000
people in the State of Indiana who lack IDs and are of
voting age, eligible -- voting age population people.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And how many of them are
going to suffer from an unreasonable denial of an
opportunity to get the ID which the State will provide
through the Bureau of Motor Vehicles? How do we
quantify that?
MR. SMITH: It is obviously for each person
a different matter of degree. The burdens here are
along a whole spectrum because some people don't have a
birth certificate, some people have -- don't have a
birth certificate, but they have money. Some people
don't have a birth certificate and they don't have
money.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I know that. That's
why it's a tough issue. But how do -- how are we going
to -- how is a court going to arrive at some kind of a
bottom line judgment on this issue?
MR. SMITH: Well, because you -- you
basically have to take into account all of those
factors: How many people are potentially affected; how
difficult it is; how similar it is to, say, a poll tax,
for example, and say -- and then look at what purpose is
being served here. Is there any real incremental
benefit to anything by --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, that's on -- that's
on the other side of the issue.
MR. SMITH: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But walk -- walk us through
-- if you were writing the opinion and what you wanted
to put in the opinion was a reasonable estimate of the
number of people who are going to be substantially
burdened in having -- who do not now have the
identification, substantially burdened in getting it.
What approximate number would you arrive at and how
would you -- how would you get to it?
MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, I would say of
that 400,000 voting age people, probably about half of
them are registered voters. It stands to reason that
most of them are lower income people, and that
therefore, the burden even of having to pay for the
birth certificate is a significant one. That -- so that
a very substantial portion of that 200,000 people in
order --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Smith, is there
anything in the record about the extent to which the
political parties help people get their IDs, as they
sometimes drive them to the polls for voting and so
forth, the part they play in this process?
MR. SMITH: I'm not aware of anything, Your
Honor. This is a fairly new law at the time this record
was being put together in 2005. But certainly, the
parties --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't it fair to presume
that the parties would play a role in helping people get
registered and getting to the polls?
MR. SMITH: But, you know, what there is in
the record, Your Honor, is the testimony from the
Lafayette Urban Ministry, which helps the needy in
Lafayette, Indiana. They had 150 people come to them
and say: We want your help to get IDs. A year later,
less than 75 had succeeded because they found themselves
caught in this Catch-22, where they went to get a birth
certificate, they didn't have a driver's license, they
didn't have the other kinds of very narrowly specified
IDs they needed, and so they were basically in this
bureaucratic maze, and they couldn't get out of it even
with the kind of assistance you're imagining, Your
Honor.
If I might reserve the balance of my time
for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Smith.
Mr. Fisher.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS M. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. FISHER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
There is no evidence in the record of any
kind suggesting that 400,000 people in Indiana lack this
form of identification. The only evidence in the
record --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I take it you accept the
figure of, what, about 50,000, to be further discounted
by those who might vote absentee and so on?
MR. FISHER: We've never had a problem. In
fact, that data was submitted by the plaintiffs. It
came from the Bureau of Motor Vehicles and was matched
against census data.
I don't think there's ever been any dispute
about the accuracy of the record. Now, the judge did
acknowledge that there might be some outliers one
direction or another, but those cannot possibly account
for 10 times the number.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, I just want to -- I
just want to know what your figure. Mr. Smith was
starting with 400 and then getting it down 2 and so on.
And my recollection in the red brief is that you said,
all right, let's take the 43,000 figure. I forget what
you discounted it for, but it got it down to 25,000.
Some of those would be able to vote absentee, but
this -- I take it you're conceding that, at least
subject to some discount, there are probably about
25,000 people who may be affected by this adversely. Is
that clear?
MR. FISHER: Well, I think we would say that
that's the number -- that's the number that could
conceivably be inconvenienced by this law. Now, to put
that in perspective, I think you have to compare it, for
example, to the number of people who are not registered
to vote, because there again that's an incidental
burden. That is something that inconveniences some
people.
And we're talking about 35 times more -- in
terms of a percentage, we're talking about 66.8 percent
or so of the population that reports being registered to
vote, far short of the percentage based on the
calculations of the district court or anything in the
ballpark of that that don't have photo identification.
So we're talking about an infinitesimal portion of the
electorate that could even be, conceivably be burdened
by this.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, isn't that a little
bit of a stretch, too, when you say "infinitesimal"? I
mean, if you take your two-thirds figure and so on,
isn't it fair to say that you're probably going to get
down to something like 10,000 people or 10,000 plus who
are going to be affected in the sense that they're going
to have to scurry around if, if they're going to get the
appropriate ID?
MR. FISHER: And at that level, you're
talking about less than a half a percent of the total
electorate. This is -- this is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. But 10 -- isn't the
concern over 10,000 voters a sufficiently substantial
concern to -- to be considered as something more than
merely de minimis and is something that should count in
a facial challenge?
MR. FISHER: Well, if that's going to be the
case, then you're going to have a big problem with voter
registration, which is a far bigger problem for more
voters. That is a procedure that the Court has long
accepted, has endorsed multiple times, and yet continues
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, we haven't
endorsed -- I mean, correct me if I'm wrong, but we
haven't endorsed a registration procedure that would
require as much documentation and as much travel as --
as the -- as this voter ID procedure would have.
MR. FISHER: The point I'm making is that if
we're going to look at the percent conceivably burdened
by the law, then voter registration is called into
question. And I don't think that the Democratic Party
argues against that. I think in their reply brief they
accepted that that's a possible response.
Now, it's also terribly significant that we
don't have anybody in front of this Court in this case
who's injured by this law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And why, why can't the
people injured by this law appear themselves and say the
law can't be applied to us? You seem to accept that a
facial challenge is appropriate here. Why is -- some
different kind of a facial challenge. I thought in the
usual facial challenge you have to show that there is no
situation in which the law cannot be constitutionally
applied.
MR. FISHER: I agree with that. I don't
think that that -- that we take any issue with that
notion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Then why are we arguing
about whether there is one half of one percent of the
electorate who may be adversely affected and as to whom
it might be unconstitutional? That one half of one
percent, if and when it is sought to be applied to them,
have a cause of action to say you can't apply it to me.
But why -- what precedent is there for knocking down
this entire law on a facial challenge when I think
everybody agrees that in the vast majority of cases it
doesn't impose a significant hardship?
MR. FISHER: None. I think that that's
exactly the point. That's why we argue there's no
standing.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You agree that if you're
going to take the -- if this Court takes the Salerno
standard, there can never be a facial challenge to a
registration requirement, a voter ID requirement. In
other words, it's not merely that this facial challenge
would be knocked out; there never could be one.
MR. FISHER: Well, I'm not sure that's the
case. And if you look back at Marston, the voter
registration --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Salerno says unless there
are no cases, the facial challenge is inappropriate.
And that -- in the real world that will never be true
with respect to a -- a voter ID law, will it?
MR. FISHER: Well, I hope not. But I think
that the Court has shown --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It never will be true, will
it?
MR. FISHER: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It never be -- if that's
going to be the standard, there will never be a facial
challenge.
MR. FISHER: I'm not sure that that's
terribly significant, because if you have an as-applied
challenge --
JUSTICE SOUTER: There never will be there
one, will there?
MR. FISHER: As to an as-applied challenge?
I don't know why not.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, as to a pre-enforcement
facial challenge to a law like this.
MR. FISHER: I think it could be
pre-enforcement and as-applied in a way that could have
ultimately --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but I want you to
answer my question.
MR. FISHER: I'm sorry. Yes, I think that's
true.
JUSTICE SOUTER: We're not going to have
facial challenges here, are we?
MR. FISHER: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does that scare you,
Mr. Fisher, that there can't be a facial challenge?
MR. FISHER: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, every facial
challenge is an immense dictum on the part of this
Court, isn't it?
MR. FISHER: I think that's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This Court is sitting back
and looking at the ceiling and saying, oh, we can
envision not the case before us, but other cases. Maybe
it's one half of one percent or maybe it's 45 percent,
who knows. But we can imagine cases in which this law
could be unconstitutional, and therefore, the whole law
is unconstitutional. That's not ordinarily the way
courts behave, is it?
MR. FISHER: I should hope not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, we've done that in the
First Amendment area.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That is not the case that
you are confronting.
MR. FISHER: That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I mean, the reason they
are bringing a facial challenge is because the horse is
going to be out of the barn. They will have the
election, and just what they are afraid of could happen,
that the result will be skewed in favor of the opposite
party, because there are people who have not been able
to vote. So, if you're going to talk about what is the
impact of this, they are in this bind after the
election -- well -- they've always -- already lost that
one.
Now, there is something in the briefs that
happened after this case was instituted, but we know
from Marion County that there were 34 people who were
not able to have a vote counted. And of those 34, only
two ended up qualifying after the fact. So, we know
that in that one particular county, most of the people
who were unable to satisfy the requirement initially
ended up not satisfying it.
Is that -- I mean that's not hypothetical.
That's real. But it does give you some confirmation
that it isn't mere speculation that there are going to
be many people who will not -- whose vote will not
count.
MR. FISHER: With respect, Your Honor, for
all we know, those may have been fraudulent ballots. It
may well be the case that all 32 did not show up to
validate their votes are fraudulent.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's the same board that
said in all our experience, in all of our memory, there
has never been an impersonator.
MR. FISHER: And that goes back to how we
would know, because without an ID check, it's impossible
to detect this kind of fraud.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if you're worried
about fraud --
MR. FISHER: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: If you're worried about
fraud, what I don't understand, and I'd like to track it
through with you, is the registration system. As I read
the Indiana voter registration application, all a person
has to do to register is to write in, enclose a utility
bill that has his name and address, and if he doesn't
have a photo ID, he can write the four numbers of his
Social Security; and if he doesn't have that either he
doesn't have to do anything, and they will give him a
number -- and you mail it in. And you're registered.
So all a person who have to do if he wants
to be fraudulent is make out a fraud one of those, and
he has a photo ID; he can go to the polls. So my
question to you is this: given that system of
registration, focusing on the issue before us, why don't
you just say and we'll give to you -- you put on -- if
you don't have a photo ID, we'll give you one. Now
there it would not stand as an obstacle; that apparently
is what Georgia has done. And it doesn't require people
to go out and spend $10 or $5 or something digging up
their birth certificate, which if you tried to do, is
quite a job for many people.
And therefore, you'd have all the things you
want. All you would do is with the 43,000 people who
don't have the IDs, you'd say we'll get you one. No big
deal. You have a photo machine there when they come in
to register; they have to go down; you take a picture of
them and you hand it to them. And I would think that
that less restrictive way would satisfy your anti-fraud
interests far better than the way you've chosen, but I
leave my judgment out of it. I just would like you to
talk through why that isn't a less restrictive way,
which is far better in achieving your anti-fraud
interests, or at least as good.
MR. FISHER: Well, because I think we want
to have an idea that has some integrity to it. I mean,
this is a balancing test that the legislature itself
went through, which is to say they wanted to adopt a
form of identification that might be effective and has
been proven effective and has been accepted the world
over as the standard form of identification. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: We are going to give -- all
we are doing is, we will give you the photo. It has
nothing to do with validity. That photo proves that
Mr. Smith who comes in and asks for it is the same
Mr. Smith who registered to vote. And that's all your
system does in the first place. So what is the answer
to that?
MR. FISHER: I think again that we, on the
front end part of it is we are hamstrung on how we can
regulate voter registration, in part by the National
Voter Registration Act. Let me just make that part of
it clear.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not arguing about that.
I'm saying your whole -- I'll repeat it once more. I'm
saying your whole system is a system designed to assure
that the person at the voting booth is the same as the
person who registers. I accept that, absolutely right.
And I'm simply saying given that, why didn't you say
Mr. Proto -- Mr. Likely, like to register: "Come in.
If you don't have a photo ID, we will give you one."
Now, what's the objection to that?
MR. FISHER: I think in part it's the
administrative apparatus. I mean, we are buying into --
right now into a system that already exists, and in fact
with voter registration at the DMV as it's required, in
many ways that is what you have. You go to the DMV
anyway for other things.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose you -- you have
your photograph taken when you register. You're really
an out of state person, you go in and register, you make
up an address, you come in, you have your photograph
taken; it proves that you were the person that
registers. It doesn't prove that you were the person
that lives at that address, or that you are of such and
such an age and whatnot, which the -- the means of
identification that you require would show, wouldn't it?
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you don't -- you don't
have the photo identification required at registration,
do you?
MR. FISHER: No, we don't. That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't, can you?
MR. FISHER: I think there are problems with
that. That -- that was a different battle --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And even so is, there
anything that prohibits the State from confirming the
validity of the registration at the polling place?
MR. FISHER: No. I think that's the main
point here, which is it's at that point where the ballot
is being cast, which is where we want identification,
and where we want to --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Why wouldn't you have the
same from in being sure the registration is correct? I
don't understand that.
MR. FISHER: Well, we -- well, I think we
may very well, but I think the policy --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Why wouldn't you require
photo ID then?
MR. FISHER: Well, I think the policy struck
nationally, under the motor voter, is to have an easy
registration system, so that it may be problematic to
introduce additional limits.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is it the policy to have
it tougher to vote than to register? That doesn't make
sense to me.
MR. FISHER: Well, I think the theory is
easy --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The national policy it to
make it both easy to register and easy to vote.
MR. FISHER: Well, and tough to cheat,
hopefully, is the backside of that, which is what the
idea is trying to do.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Fisher, you make
-- rely on the argument that 40 percent of the
registrants -- or not registrants, the people on the --
yes, registrants -- on the voter list are -- are not
accurate. That argument is a little difficult to -- to
take because what you're saying is we do such a lousy
job on registration that we should be able to do a --
have a more stringent voting requirement. Why do you do
such a lousy job on registration?
MR. FISHER: Well, I think that -- that part
of the responsibility there does lie again with the
National Voter Registration Act which limits how we may
maintain those lists. The problem has grown since --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you were
sued by the Federal Government because you did such a
bad job.
MR. FISHER: There may be -- there's part of
it is the responsibility on our end, but part of it is
also the -- the hoops we have to jump through pursuant
to the National Voter Registration Act, and we've got a
situation unfortunately where with inflated voter lists,
with reports of fraud around the country, the General
Assembly is generally concerned about voter confidence
and the legitimacy of elections, and that's precisely
what this law is trying to target. Trying to reassure
voters --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does Indiana stack up
against other States in the inflation of the voter
rolls?
MR. FISHER: We are among the most inflated.
I can't give you precise ranking but the expert that we
brought forward said we are among the most inflated.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you are under a
consent decree to do something about that?
MR. FISHER: That's right, and we are taking
those steps. Now I think it's important to bear in mind
that -- that the parties to the consent decree at the
State level, while they can't identify individuals who
have -- have dormant registrations, and they can send
those names, names that can be canceled to the local
authorities, the local authorities are under no -- no
responsibility under the consent decree or otherwise to
-- to cancel those. And in fact the expert report that
we had indicated that there were a number -- in 1998, I
think -- a number of duplicates and decedent
registrations that were sent to the local authorities,
only 30 percent of which were canceled.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, are you making the
argument that you can place a heavier burden on voters
to identify themselves because your State officials
refuse to follow the law?
MR. FISHER: Well, I think it's part of it,
is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I think that's the argument
you were just making.
MR. FISHER: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Even when we identify the
duplicates, the local officials are still leaving them
in the polls. I mean, surely you're not going to rest
your case on that, are you?
MR. FISHER: Well, I think the larger point
is that when we've got a situation where there is an
obvious gap in security at the polls, where the public
expects to show ID -- and -- as they would in any
ordinary, everyday situation -- that is going to create
a lack of confidence, particularly when combined with
what we have ended up with.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you're still making the
argument that there's a lack of confidence because our
local officials won't cull the rolls of dead voters.
MR. FISHER: Not explicitly. That is true;
that's part of the argument, but the other part is that
there is a reasonable and obvious step to take to ensure
that there is no fraud at the polls.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Maybe there is a
reasonable, obvious step you can take to make your
officials obey the law when you tell them how to do it.
MR. FISHER: Well, we are limited even at
that by the NVRA.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Now wait a minute. Are you
telling me that you are limited by some Federal statute
from preventing local officials -- I'm sorry, from
forcing local officials to take the action to cull the
rolls of dead voters, when you have identified those
dead voters for them?
MR. FISHER: No, I'm not saying that, but I
am saying --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then -- then it's Indiana's
responsibility to cull those rolls. Right?
MR. FISHER: Consistent with the NVRA, yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's not a legitimate
argument to say we can put a heavier burden on
identifying -- on voters to identify themselves because
our officials are being contumacious. You don't rest on
that argument?
MR. FISHER: No, not at all.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, good. I thought you
were.
MR. FISHER: No, that's not my theory. But
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: One aspect of your system
-- I know your time is about to expire -- but it seems
to me that every indigent person in -- who doesn't have
a photo ID is put to a burden that the mass of voters
are not put to -- that is either the two-step process
and not going to my local precinct, but having to go to
the county courthouse. That burden is on every indigent
person who doesn't have a photo ID, so we are not
speculating about numbers. That would be true for every
indigent person who doesn't have photo ID, right?
MR. FISHER: Who -- right, and who would
have to pay a fee to get -- to get the ID.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And for nonindigent people.
I mean, there may be --
MR. FISHER: Well, that's right. Anybody
who --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Some very well-to-do
elderly, you don't drive, and they are in the same
position.
MR. FISHER: Well, and who can also vote
absentee without ID. But anybody who forgets their
identification on election day, for example, would have
to go through the same process, where they would cast a
provisional ballot and then have to return to the clerk
with in 10 days.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, they can go home
and get the identification and go back to their
precinct; that's what the indigent can't do.
MR. FISHER: Or a nonindigent person who
doesn't have ID but then needs to go to the DMV.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we thought that the
birth certificate requirement for indigent people was --
was burdensome, are there any States that have
alternates to birth certificates? Do neighbors come in
and testify that this is the person? And I was going to
ask the Petitioners' counsel if there's some areas where
this statute -- where the central purpose and the
central function of this statute can be preserved but
there can be some reasonable alternatives for people who
have difficulty?
MR. FISHER: Well, let me do point out one
category where there are some reasonable alternatives.
With respect -- in Indiana -- with respect to the
elderly who can swear that they were never issued a
birth certificate, there is an alternate means of
identification, but that's the only category.
The other thing we run into is the REAL ID
Act. If Indiana wants to have an identification card
that can be acceptable in Federal facilities, it's going
to have to have minimal criteria for issuing those photo
identifications. And so I think with respect to that,
it would not be permissible to get around a birth
certificate, which is kind of a foundational document.
I mean there are alternatives, such as a passport, but I
don't -- you know, I don't mean to suggest that that's
necessarily going to be easier than it is to get a birth
certificate. It's just that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't you need a birth
certificate to get a passport?
MR. FISHER: Well, that's what I mean.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. So maybe that's
unconstitutional too.
(Laughter.)
MR. FISHER: Yes. And it -- it's worth
bearing in mind that this form of identification is
necessary to do so many everyday activities, and it's
not as if the State of Indiana went out and created an
entirely new system to impose on the entire electorate,
that everybody would have to start from square one. The
vast majority of voters are already in compliance with
this law, and the decision of the General Assembly, that
it is a reasonable step to take for a measure of
election security to bring the State's voting system
into the 21st century and to require the same photo
identification that you have to show typically to get on
an airplane, to get into many Federal courthouses, is a
reasonable step in the right direction to preserve voter
confidence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Fisher.
MR. FISHER: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
Any system of voting that involves
registrations or precincts will necessarily require some
mechanism for ascertaining a voter's identity.
Accordingly Petitioners cannot take issue that the
constitutionality of some mechanism for ascertaining
voter ID. And I take it from today's argument that they
would concede the constitutionality of a signature match
requirement. Likewise, nobody can really dispute the
proposition that a government-issued photo ID is an
awfully good way of verifying someone's identity.
So the dispute really boils down to, in a
system where the States can legitimately ask for some
kind of basis to ascertain ID, can they insist on a
particularly good one, the photo ID? And we would
suggest that there's nothing in the First or Fourteenth
Amendments that precludes that from happening.
Now, with respect to the nature of this
challenge, I think one thing that's very evident from
the questions is this was a challenge that was brought
to the statute on its face and was brought before there
was any enforcement of the statute or any significant
enforcement of the statute. Now, I would respectfully
suggest that there's a better way to test the
constitutionality of these statutes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Before you do that,
General Clement, I'd like to you to concentrate on the
one group of people where I think you can make a facial
challenge and may not all speculating, and that's the
indigent people who can't get -- don't have the photo
ID. They don't drive, and they can't get up the money
to get the birth certificate or whatever else. They do
have a burden that, it seems to me, the State could
easily eliminate if they want those people to vote, and
that is to say okay, do the affidavit, the whole thing
in your local precinct; we'll make it easy for you and
not send you away, send you off to the county courthouse
to get it validated. Why -- why, if you really wanted
people to vote, wouldn't you do it that way?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I
mean I can understand that you're concerned with that
aspect of the statute and the fact that you can't
execute an indigency affidavit in the polling place. I
don't know why that's a basis for a facial challenge
though. In particular, I think if you look at the
Plaintiffs, the individual members, if they are members
of the Indiana party that have been identified, they've
certainly identified people who do not have the ID
currently. I'm not sure that they were specific as to
whether they were indigent or not. I'm not sure the
individuals, the nine individuals, were really parsed
out that way. And I would think the far better way to
go about dealing with that issue is to take as a
starting point -- I mean you pointed out that there were
32 provisional ballots cast in the Marion County
election. Now, I gather from the State that's something
like 0.02 percent of the ballots cast. So it suggests
that this is not a monumental problem, but those 32
provisional ballots seem to me to be 32 possible
plaintiffs with a much more concrete case --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I'm --
GENERAL CLEMENT: -- than anything we have
before us.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Just on -- just on that
one class of people.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Sure.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's not going to
change after the election. I mean here is a group of
people who are being put to a burden of going someplace
else. And my only question is, why couldn't the system
make it easy for them if we really want to help America
to vote, all Americans, and say we'll do it in the local
precinct, somebody will be there to help you fill out
the affidavit, instead of doing it in a way that's
really going to discourage people from voting?
GENERAL CLEMENT: And, Justice Ginsburg, I
mean I see your concern, and I think if we had an
as-applied challenge that wasn't this kind of grab bag
challenge that looks at all the various different
classes of people that might be adversely affected, if
we had a challenge that focused on that particular
issue, I would imagine -- I don't know for sure -- I
would imagine that the State would probably put on some
evidence that says, look, there's a reason we did it
that way; we piggybacked on the general provisional
ballot provisions and what we decided is that, if we had
people executing indigency affidavits at the polling
place, it would add to the lines as the the polls.
JUSTICE SOUTER: They didn't make that
argument now. I mean we don't have to wait until after
an election to hear that, any more than we have to wait
until after an election to identify the voters that
Justice Ginsburg has.
GENERAL CLEMENT: But with respect, Justice
Souter, I mean that's not the way this challenge
proceeded. I mean there was a challenge to everything
under the sun, to the whole sort of -- this statute ab
initio, and it wasn't something that really put the
State on notice that that was the nub of the dispute and
would put evidence in the record that might join the
issue.
And again I would say, of course, if there
were that kind of as-applied challenge, one of the
virtues of it would be that the remedy at the end of the
day would not be to strike the statute down on its face,
but it would be an injunction consistent with the
teaching of this Court in Nayot that said, look, you
need to have -- you need to be enjoined to offer the
affidavits at the polling place --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That would be a --
GENERAL CLEMENT: -- because --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That would be a virtue, but
one of the vices would be that it would be after the
election and the entire matter would be academic for
another 2 years, until another 2 years had passed.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I don't think so. I
mean, at this point, like I said -- I mean we have these
32 potential plaintiffs.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The provisional ballots
would be counted, I assume.
GENERAL CLEMENT: What's that?
JUSTICE SCALIA: The provisional ballots
would be counted. The ones that were unconstitutionally
prevented from voting -- those claims would be counted.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, if the claim could
be brought in sufficient time, I suppose it would.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And if we assume that
everyone who has a decent claim under this Act went
through the hoops to get the provisional ballot at the
-- wherever the county office is and --
GENERAL CLEMENT: Sure.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- that's an assumption
which need not necessarily be made.
GENERAL CLEMENT: But, conversely, nowhere
is it -- nowhere is it a rational assumption that all 32
of these individuals has a great claim. It may be that
some of them are people who just forgot their ID --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, I'm not
concentrating --
GENERAL CLEMENT: -- and for those people I
don't think they have much of a claim.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I was trying to deal with
this one category of person, and the State -- it was
addressed, and the State said, well, we can't do it that
way because that will lead to congestion at the polling
place. But it seems to me that that is powerfully hard
to reconcile with the claim that there are so few of
these people it's not really a problem. If there are so
few of them, then I don't understand why they should be
put to the burden of going someplace other than the
polling place.
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I
mean I think there's a rationale justification for that
which is that, you know, if -- especially if there are
only a handful of these people, is do you really want to
instruct every poll worker at every precinct on how to
deal with this unusual situation or do you want to say,
you know, that's sort of an outlying situation, let's
instruct one poll worker at the county elections office
how to deal with it?
Now, at the end of the day, you may not be
persuaded that that's the way to do it. I think that's
a reasonable argument, but an as-applied challenge could
focus like a laser beam on those particular voters and
those challenges. You could have particular indigent
voters in front of you.
And it seems to me that that's the
preferable way to adjudicate this kind of claims, and I
think what this Court could do is this Court could
reject the facial challenge that is before it here that
leave open the possibility of that as-applied challenge,
or one could certainly imagine a veteran who has a
Federal photo ID without an expiration date who comes
into court and says, look, it's irrational to make me go
get a different form of ID. That as-applied challenge
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we did that, I assume
challenges could be made in advance of the election.
GENERAL CLEMENT: I don't see any reason why
they couldn't be. I mean it might depend a little bit
on the nature of the challenge.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And presumably the
challenges could be adjudicated. You have 10 days to go
down to the courthouse when you file a provisional
ballot, and if it turns out the election was decided by
three votes and there are 30 provisional ballots,
presumably the challenge can be brought at that point as
well.
GENERAL CLEMENT: That is true, and there is
a provision for judicial review under Indiana law, of
the provisional ballots, if there's an ongoing dispute.
But I also take the point that some of this could be
taken care of well in advance of the election, which is
actually, I think, a very healthy way to deal with
election disputes. And so my hypothetical veteran with
the card, he has got the card in his wallet right now,
or her wallet right now. They can go get --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is it not unrealistic to
assume it would be easier to file a lawsuit and go off
with the burden of litigation rather than go back to get
the second affidavit? If you're challenging two
affidavits, you know, to have a Federal case over it
seems a little bit improbable.
GENERAL CLEMENT: You know, it may be,
Justice Stevens, that it's easier to get somebody to
help you out with the Federal case than it is with the
second -- with the second affidavit. I don't know. I
mean, you know, I think if you look around where there
have been these laws --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Things called class
actions, right?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Yes. I think, if you look
where there have been these laws, there have been -- the
one observed phenomenon definitely is litigation.
So I do think that these claims will be
brought. I just really think that in choosing the mode
of litigation, you know, Justice Kennedy for the Court
in the partial-birth case said that as-applied
challenges are the basic building block of adjudication.
And this seems like a particularly
appropriate case to apply that lesson, because I can
imagine there --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think there
is standing in this case to bring the facial challenge?
GENERAL CLEMENT: I think it's a close
question, Mr. Chief Justice. I would say that I think
there is standing. I think the standing that exists
here is the standing to represent the nine or so
individuals that are addressed specifically on pages 49a
and 51a of the district court opinion. Those are
individuals who do not have photo IDs.
I think that as to the membership issue,
boy, if the Indiana Democratic Party has any members,
its probably these individuals, because they are poll
workers and active in the parties.
And what I would say about those
individuals, though, is that it is telling that the only
individuals they have been able to identify who don't
have photo IDs also happen to be elderly individuals who
can, by right, vote by absentee ballot.
Now, that's not to say -- and I would -- I
would concede there is a legally protected interest in
voting in person sufficient to cross the Article III
threshold. But I think, when you are looking for the
real world impact, it is telling that the people they
have been able to identify do have a ready mechanism
available to them.
JUSTICE STEVENS: If you look at the real
world impact and you ask whether the Democratic Party
has standing to challenge the law, is it relevant that
the State legislature is split entirely on party lines?
GENERAL CLEMENT: May I answer the question?
You know, I don't think that's relevant in this -- I
would hate to think that a party line vote would
necessarily give the other party standing as a general
rule.
I don't think that you would adopt that, and
this goes out of the record, of course, to a recent
study. But the one study that's been done actually
shows that the Democratic Party did well in the 2006
elections, and turnout went up a little bit.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But don't you think it's
fair to infer that this law does have an adverse impact
on the Democrats that is different from its impact on
the Republicans?
GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, again, if I could
answer, I mean I would just say that, you know, if this
was a cleverly designed mechanism by the Republican
Party to disadvantage the Democratic Party, at least in
2006 it looks like it went pretty far awry from their
perspective.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General
Clement. Mr. Smith, three minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SMITH: Thank you, Your Honor.
Let me start by addressing the question of
what reasonable alternatives there are to the strict law
that we are dealing with here. This is the most strict
law in the country. And what you have when you look at
the range of laws that are out there in other States is
a very different set of responses that occur when a
voter shows up without an ID in hand.
In Michigan and several other States, for
example, the response is to say: All right, we are
going to make you fill out an affidavit attesting to who
you are, and that you are a registered voter; that you
live in this precinct; and we'll let you go ahead and
vote a regular ballot.
That in those States they -- they consider
that a sufficient safeguard while looking at the IDs of
all the people who have the IDs.
In Florida they have a different approach,
which is to let you vote a provisional ballot, and then
what they do is they judge your signature match later on
in exactly the same process that's used for absentee
ballots.
We have a lot of information in this record
about why it's okay to have absentee ballots allowed
without an ID in Indiana, and they say, well, we have
these specialized committees that know how to do
signature matches; and they are trained; and so we get
thousands of these absentee ballots in. But we can very
carefully scrutinize them.
You could do very easily do exactly the same
thing with respect to the provisional ballots cast by
people who show up without their ID without --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Who do you do with
illiterates who don't have a signature? Do you match
"Xs," or what?
MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Aren't there going to be
problems under any system you imagine?
MR. SMITH: Yes, there are; and it's this
Court's job under the Burdick line of cases to weigh the
benefits and the burdens and come out with the
appropriate decision about whether the legislature went
too hard -- far.
Let me talk a little bit about this facial
versus as-applied approach. To paraphrase King Lear:
That way lies madness, Your Honor. This Court has never
looked at these issues on an as-applied basis.
The Burdick test, in its very nature, is
about facial weighing of systemic benefits and burdens
from the particular rule. And there is a reason for
that, because the concern is systemic; that the burdens
that are being imposed, a whole range of them depending
on the kind of people involved and their particular
circumstances, will have an effect on the outcome of the
election overall.
Imagine, if you will, what it would be like
to try to have all these class actions being brought,
some by the people who don't have IDs, some by the
people who have IDs but don't have enough money. You
would have to figure out exactly how much money people
are allowed to have in order to be in this exempt class.
The courts would then be creating exempt
classes, trying to decide whether the legislature would
have wanted an exemption drawn or not. The whole thing
would be a complete and utter morass. And, ultimately,
even if you did carve out an exception for indigent
people or for some other group of people, you ultimately
would leave untouched the real problem, which is the
concern that even for people who are relatively --
suffer relatively minor inconvenience, maybe one percent
of them are not going to show up and vote.
And that's exactly what the legislature may
have been trying to accomplish here. So that is not the
way the jurisprudence in this area ever looks at it.
Nobody applied the poll -- nobody challenged the poll
tax as-applied.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You want us to invalidate
a statute on the ground that it's a minor inconvenience
to a small percentage of voters?
MR. SMITH: That it imposes a range of
burdens on people from quite severe to less severe, and
those burdens vastly outweigh the -- any incremental
state interest that is being served, Your Honor.
That's our -- our analysis, and I think it's
certainly completely consistent with every decision
right up through Klingman a couple of years ago. That's
the test that this Court applies.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You said it serves
no purpose. What if we determine that it does serve a
purpose in preventing fraud. How are we supposed to
weigh that against your asserted burden on the right to
vote?
MR. SMITH: Well, you have to make some
judgment about the incremental, additional benefit above
what's already been in place for decades, and it worked
extremely effectively, Your Honor. And, obviously, you
do the balancing. I'm just the advocate here. But it
seems to me you have to say is there any real benefit
here compared to these burdens?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if you want to talk
about increments, why shouldn't we also ask whether our
judgment does more harm than good; whether -- whether
the remedy for -- for the inconvenience to a small
number of people is to wash away the whole statute,
which in most of its applications is perfectly okay?
Why don't we do that weighing of benefits and burdens of
increments versus needs?
MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, I think the
number of people who are adversely affected is part of
the analysis. But if you come in and you come to the
conclusion that there is essentially no real,
significant benefit from making all of these other
people who have IDs show them, then the balance comes
out that you throw the law out. That's the way the
analysis works.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Smith. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:07 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
38:17,25 address 20:7,8 airplane 51:10 49:5 ascertain 52:10
61:9,17 40:3 42:19,22 Airport 7:25 anyway 42:15 ascertaining
67:15 60:25 AL 1:3,7,10,14 apparently asks 41:17
61:11 62:23 13:13 14:1 appeals 7:13 53:13
adjudicate 24:4 25:6 appear 35:2 Assembly 45:7
42:5 adjudicated Alito's 14:4 1:21 assert 16:2
42:5 adjust 28:16 alternate 50:4 67:1 assigned 22:2
41:12 adopt 41:10 49:23 50:1,13 applies 66:8 association 7:3
58:24 59:14 38:8 approach 63:14 5:13 6:1,10 7:7
32:10 adversely 28:7 52:13 appropriate assume 21:6
advertising 54:18 64:13 assuming 15:9
advocate 66:18 51:19 30:2 17:21 57:3,6
9:22 13:22 20:19 27:15 38:8 as-applied 36:22
50:7 affidavit 16:10 analysis 66:5 areas 49:20 55:24 58:9,17
53:6,14 54:20 67:6,11 argue 35:23 58:21 60:14
63:7 23:1 arguing 35:12 attesting 63:7
55:8 56:5 answer 13:3,10 argument 1:19 45:25,25 46:5
afraid 38:15 14:4,13 15:14 9:8 15:8 22:23 automobile
25:2 28:19,19 37:9 41:19 44:11,14 46:8 available 13:6
67:8 56:22 59:8 cards 24:12 11:5 13:20
49:11 better 18:20,22 7:16 14:9 17:2 careful 27:21 66:6
41:2,5 52:20 17:3,6,6 26:25 carefully 63:25 certificate 12:13
big 34:7 40:22 48:16 53:4 Carter-Baker 31:6 40:18
bind 38:19 burdened 7:5 case 4:4,12 5:11 certificates
14:20 26:12,19 29:25 30:1 11:4,6 12:23 certified 12:13
41:9 31:5 40:18 burdens 4:13,16 15:24 17:21 35:4,5,6,19
49:16,18 50:4 4:18 10:21 21:17 34:7,24 36:2,4,10,20
55:7 53:3 64:12,20,22 38:9,23 39:12 37:17,20 38:13
59:6 bit 33:16 59:1 66:2,3,20 67:2 46:19 54:6 52:15,16,25
63:10,15 59:24 62:7 burdensome 59:23 60:2,14 53:15 54:24,25
56:15 block 60:15 49:17 67:14 58:9,16,17,21
59:7,12 board 1:7 4:5 Burdick 64:11 cases 35:20 59:2,8 60:20
39:14 64:19 36:10 37:25 61:21
boils 52:8 Bureau 28:23 38:2 64:11 challenged
Branch 27:11,11 C category 50:1,5 change 54:14
64:18 BREYER 22:4 calculations caught 23:13,15 charge 25:22
3:4,6,8,12 34:21 cancel 46:2 Center 23:2 12:6 15:4,7
8:22 31:18 briefs 38:22 canceled 45:24 central 13:17 16:18,21 17:15
62:21 bring 6:23 51:7 46:6 49:21,22 18:5,8,10,16
25:25 11:19 26:2 46:25 47:3 45:6 63:1 Crown 16:25
31:14,19 31:2 40:23 51:12 county 1:6 4:5 cull 47:4,17,23
51:13 42:7,19 49:18 confine 8:18,22 16:8,15,16,19 curiae 2:3 51:19
59:3 64:12 67:6,6 confines 8:25 16:19,21,24 current 14:8
62:18 comes 20:7 confirmation 38:24 39:2 currently 53:20
67:12 41:17 58:19 39:6 48:16 53:8
Commission congestion course 9:3 22:17 data 32:4,6
23:5 committees 45:18,21 46:1 4:11,20 5:24 49:6 56:1 58:7
57:7 63:22 consider 63:11 6:7 7:10,13 8:8 days 49:9 59:4
common 22:6 considerable 8:13 10:3 de 34:4
58:14 comparing considered 34:3 31:20 33:10 deal 10:20 40:23
18:14 consistent 47:24 34:9,24 36:1 57:13 58:3,6
5:3 constitutional 51:22 56:3 dealing 19:23
51:4 constitutionali... courthouse decedent 46:4
concede 26:20 constitutionally 59:5 decide 65:9
conceding 32:19 continue 4:17 51:10 55:7 59:6
53:11 conceivably 10:22 courts 5:5,7 decision 25:16
32:25 33:13 continues 34:10 27:8 38:5 65:8 51:5 64:13
56:7,12 34:18 contumacious court's 28:15 66:6
57:2 concentrate 48:3 64:11 decree 19:2
52:23 conversely 57:5 covered 14:24 45:18,21 46:1
59:10,25 concentrating correct 7:12 co-chaired 24:6 deferential 27:8
61:23 57:10 34:13 43:15 co-conspirators definitely 60:10
concern 26:17 correctly 5:12 22:2 degree 13:2 14:9
61:4,20 discourage 44:6,6 53:7 52:18,19 Executive 27:11
54:21 54:17 enjoined 56:4 exempt 65:7,8
62:10 disparity 17:25 effective 41:11 entire 35:19 15:17,20 16:6
dissents 25:17 19:5 40:5 equal 5:24 10:3 existed 19:8
district 5:24 elderly 49:2 especially 5:10 exists 42:12
17:25 18:6 elect 7:4 ESQ 1:22,24 2:1 expect 20:17
61:1 election 1:6 4:5 essentially 67:7 experience
41:15 54:20 55:12,13 56:10 51:3 Extend 7:20
20:12,13 draw 26:22 59:16 65:1 50:25 30:13
29:1 drawn 65:10 elections 11:11 evidence 9:20 extremely 66:17
43:6 drive 30:15 49:2 19:20 45:8 10:16,20 12:3
58:21 53:2 58:5 62:7 13:21 20:23 F
63:3,14 driver's 17:12 electoral 27:12 22:5,6 28:9 face 4:22 52:17
31:6 33:25 35:14 55:21 facial 34:5 35:4
20:3 eligible 28:19 exactly 10:18 36:4,10,19
44:14 duplicates 19:5 eliminate 21:11 24:11 35:23 37:4,13,17,19
49:24 46:17 Elk's 6:14 65:6,18 53:15 58:16
E 3:1 4:1,1 encourage 23:1 49:6 63:6 19:9 24:5
easily 23:13 47:1 Excuse 10:10 46:2 53:13
easy 43:22 44:4 enforcement executing 55:8 facts 12:25
50:19,23 51:14 function 49:22 62:1 great 10:20 57:7
34:8 41:2 focus 23:10 fundamental giving 26:17 group 9:3 52:24
53:23 58:10 4:13 go 10:5 12:14 54:14 65:13
64:14 focused 55:2 further 32:1 16:8 20:6,17 grown 44:22
47:15 following 25:1 49:7,10,11,14 half 30:5 33:24
51:10 forcing 7:18 G 53:24 58:20 35:13,15 38:1
59:23 47:17 G 4:1 59:4,18,20,21 hamstrung
forever 16:16 gap 46:22 63:9 41:22
32:1,13 form 12:17,19 GEN 2:1 3:7 62:4 happen 38:15
33:17 13:4 31:23 51:17 going 8:22 12:4 61:10
41:11,13 50:24 general 1:24 2:1 12:4,7 16:15 happened 11:5
former 24:6,7 53:11 54:8,12 24:17,18,19 20:22 52:13
23:23,23 19:21 31:4 60:8,21 61:23 34:6,7,18 36:1 64:14
41:19 foundational 62:1,12,18 36:19 37:12 hardship 35:21
50:12 generally 45:7 38:14,18 39:7 harm 66:23
Fourteenth Georgia 40:16 48:15 49:19 haven 5:14
33:23 52:12 getting 7:20 50:8,15 54:13 Havens 7:13
35:9 fraud 4:20 13:8 9:19 12:12 54:15,21 57:21 healthy 59:15
36:6,13 13:22 19:6,11 30:1,23 32:14 63:7 64:8 hear 4:3 55:12
37:1 19:15,17,17,20 Ginsburg 14:12 65:17 heart 23:4
20:19,24 21:11 14:15 16:11 good 41:6 48:6 heavier 46:8
38:6 22:20 23:6,13 24:11,16 38:9 52:7,11 66:23 48:1
39:10,17 23:14,15,16 38:12 39:14 gotten 18:20 help 24:14 25:20
41:7,21 39:19,21,24 45:11,17 48:10 Government 25:25 30:14
43:3,5 40:9 45:6 47:8 49:10 52:22 44:24 31:3 54:17,19
66:11 53:11 54:7,10 government-is... 60:2
fraudfeasor 54:13,22 55:14 52:6 helping 30:22
20:14 57:9,13,23 grab 54:24 helps 31:1
fraudulent give 9:13 26:1,3 gratuitively Holland 9:9
39:11,13 40:9 39:6 40:6,13 16:7 home 22:17 26:6
front 34:24 40:14 41:14,15 graveyards 49:10
6:15 7:8 4:14 7:21 12:9 impersonator Indianapolis 10:1
8:4,7,24 12:15,17,19 39:16 1:24 introduce 43:24
10:15 13:4,23 14:10 implementation Indiana's 47:22 invalidate 65:23
30:1 31:23 11:8 indicated 46:3 involved 7:23
13:14 33:11 41:11,13 important 27:16 indication 20:23 27:18 64:24
15:1,6 42:24 43:1,12 45:20 indigency 16:6 involves 4:12
16:24 49:6,11 50:5,7 impose 14:5 53:14 55:8 51:23
19:20 50:24 51:9 35:21 51:2 indigent 16:23 Ir 14:20
22:21 identifications imposed 4:25 17:2,4,13 irrational 58:20
24:11 50:10 10:21 14:9 48:12,16,19 irreparable 11:7
30:4,18 identified 7:19 64:23 49:12,16 53:1 issue 18:16
31:11 8:5 9:25 47:18 imposes 66:1 53:21 58:11 19:13 28:5
62:22 53:18,19 impossible 22:9 65:12 29:8,10,19
66:4 identify 5:18,22 39:18 individual 6:10 35:10 40:12
67:4 10:11 12:25 improbable 6:24 53:17 52:1 53:24
56:25 48:2 55:13 inappropriate 45:22 53:22,22 issued 17:24
59:16 24:14 26:10 inconvenience inflated 45:5,14 J
30:14 65:16,24 66:24 45:16 January 1:17
12:4 63:13 65:4,5 inconveniences 63:19 Joe 19:23 22:10
67:9 33:4 initially 39:3 22:10,11
17:17 ignore 15:8 incremental initio 55:19 John 20:4,4,6,8
24:8,9 III 61:14 13:1 29:16 injunction 56:2 20:15 27:15
25:10,20 illiterates 64:5 66:3,15 injured 10:7,14 join 8:3 55:21
imagine 38:2 increments 34:25 35:2 joined 7:3
28:22 55:3,4 58:18 66:22 67:3 insist 52:10 judge 9:11 10:25
34:16 60:18 64:9 Ind 1:25 instance 11:1 23:5 32:8
39:18 65:2 Indiana 1:9,13 instituted 18:21 63:16
imagining 31:10 4:5,14 5:20 38:23 judgment 27:9
43:20 immense 37:20 11:10 12:19 instruct 58:2,5 29:10 41:3
48:13,17 impact 38:19 16:22,24 17:14 integrity 41:8 66:15,23
49:5 61:16,20 62:9 17:17 18:11 intend 6:19 judgments
50:6 62:10 25:9,19 28:12 intended 6:3 12:24 27:7
impaired 5:15 28:13,14,18 interest 4:23 judicial 27:16
57:8 7:15,25 31:2,22 40:1 5:15 13:1,2 59:11
63:4 impersonating 45:11 50:2,7 61:13 66:4 jump 45:3
64:3 21:16 51:1 53:18 interests 7:14 jurisprudence
5:1,7,17 58:23 59:3,19 59:23,25 60:3 47:25 29:15 34:18
7:9,18 60:1,6,13,19 60:4,13 61:24 legitimately 36:7 53:16
9:7 60:22 61:19 62:13 63:22 52:9 55:5 56:3
62:8,18 64:4,8 knows 19:24 lesser 12:18 58:20 60:4,8
65:23 66:9,21 38:2 lesson 60:17 61:19 63:1
13:3 67:12 let's 28:2,2,11 looked 64:18
justification L 32:16 58:4 looking 18:13
4:21 57:24 lack 4:14 28:18 level 7:24 33:23 37:24 61:15
15:4,7 justified 4:18 31:22 46:25 45:22 63:12
justify 4:24 47:3 license 17:12 looks 22:12,13
Lafayette 31:1,2 18:15 25:3 54:25 62:16
18:5 K Lake 16:24 31:6 65:20
keep 7:24 larger 46:20 licenses 17:24 loss 11:7
20:2 Kennedy 8:17 laser 58:10 18:2,4 21:5 lost 38:20
13:10,15,24 Laughter 50:22 25:5 lot 12:2 18:21
23:3,9 14:13 43:7 law 4:12,15 5:16 lie 44:20 19:24 21:25
24:4 49:15 58:23 7:6 10:22 11:9 lies 64:17 22:19 24:1,14
25:6 60:13 65:23 11:12,14 13:17 Likewise 52:5 63:19
26:8,20 kind 7:4 12:15 26:14 27:5 limit 9:7 lots 24:19
16:7 20:19,24 30:18 32:25 limited 47:12,15 lousy 44:15,18
21:21 22:19 34:19,25 35:2 limits 43:24 lower 30:7
23:5,14,15,16 35:3,7,19 44:21
31:14 26:21 29:9 36:12 37:4 line 26:22 27:3,3 M
32:12 31:10,22 35:5 38:2,3 45:9 29:10 61:25 M 1:22,24 3:3,5
34:1,12 39:19 50:12 46:10 47:11 64:11 3:11 4:8 31:17
52:10 54:24 51:5 59:11 lines 55:9 61:22 62:20
55:24 58:14 61:21 62:9,24 list 44:13 machine 40:23
64:24 63:1 67:10 lists 44:22 45:5 madness 64:17
kinds 15:11 laws 60:5,9 63:2 litigation 59:21 mail 40:7
23:12 31:7 lawsuit 59:20 60:10,13 main 43:10
King 64:16 lead 57:16 litmus 27:6 maintain 44:22
42:1,16 Klingman 66:7 leads 13:15 little 5:2 11:9 majority 35:20
43:4,7 knew 8:20,20 Lear 64:16 33:15 44:14 51:4
knocked 36:5 learning 22:3 59:1,24 62:7 making 25:21
knocking 35:18 leave 41:3 58:17 64:15 34:17 46:7,14
46:7 know 8:19,22 65:14 live 15:3 63:9 47:2 67:8
47:2 14:5 15:16,19 leaving 46:17 lives 42:22 mandatory 25:4
16:1,20 19:7 left 18:3 living 17:13 Marion 1:6 4:4
20:15 21:15,18 legally 61:13 23:16 38:24 54:1
23:3 24:1 legends 22:7 local 16:13 Marston 36:7
51:13 27:21 29:7 Legislative 45:24,25 46:5 mass 48:13
52:22 30:24 32:13 27:11 46:17 47:4,16 match 19:25
54:7,10 37:2 38:23 legislature 41:9 47:17 48:15 23:25 52:4
55:10 39:1,11,18 61:22 64:13 53:7 54:18 63:16 64:5
56:6 48:11 50:14 65:9,18 long 34:9 matched 32:5
53:15 55:3 legitimacy 45:8 look 19:15 23:1 matches 25:14
Michigan 63:5 necessary 50:25 objecting 21:2 64:25
56:10 17:8 20:5 21:25 42:9 outlying 58:4
mind 45:20 25:10,19 50:17 objectors 14:23 outweigh 66:3
15:23 minimis 34:4 needy 31:1 47:7,10
22:4 Ministry 31:1 neighborhood obviously 26:16 P
34:13 minor 65:16,24 19:24 28:25 66:17 P 4:1
38:12 minute 47:14 neighborhoods occur 63:3 PAGE 3:2
41:8 minutes 62:19 24:19 occurring 13:22 pages 60:25
46:18 misunderstan... neighbors 49:18 20:19,24 paid 12:14
50:13,14 16:4 never 23:6 32:3 offer 56:4 paraphrase
53:12,25 mobile 24:19 36:2,5,11,15 office 16:15 57:1 64:16
55:11 mode 60:12 36:18,19,24 58:5 parsed 53:22
56:13 money 14:19 39:16 50:3 officials 46:9,17 part 9:24 23:10
57:24 25:22 29:4,6 64:17 47:4,11,16,17 30:16 37:20
60:4 53:2 65:5,6 new 4:15 30:18 48:3 41:22,23,24
Montezuma 51:2 oh 37:24 42:10 44:19
monumental 60:24 34:1 37:15 47:6,6 67:5
52:2 32:5 43:22 nonindigent ones 5:5 56:19 participating
62:14 moved 20:4 21:2 48:22 49:13 ongoing 59:12 5:21
10:11 moving 21:11 note 8:7 10:4 opinion 29:22 7:4 10:19
8:3,5,8,13 notion 35:11 opportunity 53:16 55:2
53:17,17 N nub 55:20 28:22 58:10,11 64:21
N 3:1,1 4:1 number 14:1,2 opposite 38:16 64:24
61:3 name 40:3 21:4,5 28:6,9 31:17 51:17 46:25 52:11
narrowly 31:7 30:2 32:11,24 30:11 65:7 parties 30:14,20
41:23 44:5,21 40:7 46:3,4 ordinary 46:24 61:6
nature 52:14 48:18 8:13 9:1,5,6 6:4,17,22 7:1,3
57:4 62:1 obey 47:11 outcome 27:13 38:17 53:18
26:5 33:7,24 photographic 30:15,23 40:10 presumably
34:18 35:13,16 14:21 46:18,22 47:8 17:11 20:12
percentage place 14:17 16:9 17:23 18:7,14 prevent 11:7
4:8 65:25 20:16,18 41:19 28:19 33:8 26:25 56:20
62:20 perfectly 67:1 43:9 46:8 portion 30:10 preventing 13:8
19:24 20:1 plaintiffs 5:4 12:16 49:3 probably 18:1
9:2,3,14 21:15 22:3,16 12:1,2 32:4 Posner's 23:5 30:5 32:20
10:16,21 23:7 28:25 53:17 54:6 possibility 58:17 33:18 55:4
40:1,8 42:4,5 56:14 possible 12:22 61:5
15:11,11 42:18,20,21 plan 11:19,20 21:20 34:22 problem 8:21
16:22 48:12,17,19 play 30:16,22 54:5 13:25 14:22
18:3,11 49:13,19 57:14 please 4:11 possibly 9:25 15:24 16:6
20:19 61:14 31:20 51:22 32:10 20:2 21:15
person's 19:25 plenty 28:9 potential 19:6 24:4 25:2,7,8
22:8 perspective 33:1 plus 33:19 56:14 25:10,11 26:22
26:5,25 62:17 pocket 15:13 potentially 15:1 26:24 32:3
persuaded 58:8 point 11:15 15:5 29:13 34:7,8 44:22
petitioner 5:10 16:25 22:25 power 27:12 54:4 57:19
Petitioners 1:4 34:17 35:23 powerfully 65:14
31:2,22 1:11,23 3:4,12 43:11,11 46:20 57:17 problematic
33:2,5 4:9 49:20 52:1 49:25 53:25 practical 4:16 43:23
35:2 62:21 56:13 59:8,13 precedent 35:18 problems 15:11
39:2 phenomenon pointed 53:25 precinct 24:2 43:5 64:9
40:16,19 60:10 policeman 22:16 48:15 49:12 procedure 34:9
44:12 photo 4:15 11:2 policy 43:18,21 53:7 54:19 34:14,16
49:16,23 14:6,18 15:12 43:25 44:5 58:2 63:9 proceeded 55:17
53:1,5 17:17 18:24 political 22:7 precincts 51:24 process 27:13
54:11 24:22 25:10 30:14 precise 45:15 30:16 48:14
55:1 26:2,10 33:11 poll 5:23 9:16 precisely 45:8 49:7 63:17
57:8,11 40:4,10,14,23 11:23 22:12,14 precludes 52:13 prohibits 43:8
58:1 41:15,16 42:8 22:20 23:7 preferable properly 7:19
63:13 43:1,20 48:13 29:14 58:2,5 58:14 proposal 24:18
65:4,5 48:17,19 50:9 61:5 65:21,21 premise 24:20 propose 26:9
51:8 52:6,11 polled 9:17 presents 19:6 proposition 52:6
67:5,9 53:1 58:19 polling 16:9 preserve 51:11 protected 61:13
18:10,17 14:16 16:1,2 57:16,22 President 24:7 Proto 42:7
25:2 42:17,19 polls 4:20 19:23 24:25 26:9 prove 42:21
quintessentialreasonably 44:16,18,21 14:10 24:8
quite 11:6 40:19
55:6 R 4:1 recognized 6:7 regulate 27:12 requirements
raised 28:4 recollection 41:23 24:9 25:21
range 63:2 32:15 reject 58:16 requiring 12:12
64:2 64:23 66:1 recommend relates 9:1 18:24
ratcheted 12:11 24:8,10 relevant 61:21 respect 36:12
29:15 8:23,25 57:24 10:21 11:3 religious 14:23 55:15 64:2
66:10,11 read 39:25 13:21 17:16,18 15:8,17,20,25 respectfully
8:11 10:2 26:18 28:9 30:13,18 remedy 55:25 respond 13:19
ready 61:17 30:25 31:21,24 66:24 responded
40:13 29:16 36:11 recorded 19:10 report 24:21 1:25 2:4 3:6,9
39:6 50:6 records 18:15 25:1 26:15 31:18 51:20
55:4,19 61:16,19 65:14 red 32:15 46:2 response 9:25
57:21 66:19 67:7 refer 24:24 reports 33:8 22:22 28:4
42:17 52:5,8 44:1,6 representatives 46:1 47:23
54:21 55:19 30:23 33:2,8 Republican restrictive 41:1
60:12 63:8 Republicans result 27:1
Realty 7:14 registers 14:18 62:11 38:16
21:13 reason 9:2 13:7 42:5,21 require 12:17,18 return 49:8
27:22 16:2,5 18:19 registrants 19:5 12:23 15:13 review 27:16
34:20 27:5 30:6 44:12,12,13 25:7 26:10 59:11
40:11 38:12 55:5 registration 34:15 40:16 rich 17:9
60:22 58:25 64:21 14:16,17 18:18 42:24 43:19 right 4:13,13,17
62:23 reasonable 20:5 34:8,14 51:8,24 6:11 10:7,11
49:23 50:1 39:25 40:1,12 12:19 42:13 14:16 20:12
26:7 25:1 37:24 serving 13:9 skew 27:13 39:22 47:16
32:16 42:2,3,6 44:15 set 63:3 skewed 38:16 sort 13:8 25:10
37:14,22 47:20,21 severe 24:2 25:9 small 65:25 26:14 55:18
42:5,12 says 4:18 8:19 66:2,2 66:24 58:4
45:19 20:8,16,20 short 33:9 Smith 1:22 3:3 sorts 6:23
48:19,20 22:11 26:15 show 15:14 25:8 3:11 4:7,8,10 sought 35:16
51:11 27:6,15 36:9 35:6 39:12 5:4,9,20 6:5,13 Souter 7:9,18
60:7 55:5 58:20 42:24 46:23 7:2,10,12,20 10:5 27:20
63:6 Scalia 5:1,7,17 51:9 64:3 8:4,7,24 9:9,14 28:2,11,20
6:2,8,21 8:2,5 65:17 67:9 10:13,20 11:3 29:7,18,21
10:24 15:23 17:3,8 20:1 26:4 62:6 13:14,20 14:7 35:25 36:9,15
12:6 21:1,9,14,22 63:4 14:12,14,25 36:18,24 37:3
16:18 23:9 35:1,12 shy 27:17 15:6,9,18,22 37:8,12,15
17:15 37:16,19,23 side 22:24 27:3 16:4,14,20,23 46:7,13,16
38:7 42:16 27:3 29:19 17:5,10,18 47:2,9,14,22
19:3,12 43:4 44:5 sides 23:4 18:7,8,9,13,19 47:25 48:6
25:25 48:22 49:1 signature 12:18 18:25 19:7,19 55:10,16 56:6
31:14 50:17,20 56:15 13:5 19:25 19:23 20:4,4,6 56:8,23 57:3
51:13 56:18 60:6 22:3,13 23:25 20:8,11,15 specialized
59:3 64:4,8 66:21 25:13 52:4 21:3,13,20,23 63:22
62:18 scant 20:24 63:16,23 64:5 22:10,11,11,21 specific 9:20,20
67:12 scare 37:16 signed 19:2 22:25 23:12,20 12:25 26:15
19:1,4 scurry 33:21 13:22 17:2 28:14,25 29:11 specified 31:7
45:13 se 8:13 19:4,6,8 20:18 29:20 30:4,12 spectrum 29:2
seat 16:8,16,19 30:9 34:23 30:17,24 31:15 speculating
14:20 53:8 sitting 37:23 20:20 54:19 standard 36:2
sent 26:6 46:5 35:7 45:5 someone's 52:7 standing 5:2,6
20:20 29:16 66:4 situations 8:16 sooner 20:18 8:10 9:8,13,20
22:10 serves 66:9 12:22 sorry 18:9 37:10 10:2,6 35:24
submit 8:16 14:5,8 25:23 Thank 31:14 throw 67:10
62:1 submitted 12:3 39:25 40:11 51:13,15 62:18 time 12:12 14:15
substantially 51:23 52:9 Theresa 9:15 56:22
8:9 12:8 subtle 27:13 systemic 64:20 26:14 50:6 33:6 34:10
13:1 succeeded 31:4 64:22 52:15 53:6 Timmons 12:24
16:3 18:3 sue 8:19,21 64:2 65:10 27:6
24:7 sued 44:24 T things 13:19 today 4:4
42:18 suffer 28:21 T 3:1,1 21:23 26:18 today's 52:3
45:22 65:16 take 5:19 16:25 40:20 42:15 TODD 1:13
51:1 53:4 sufficient 5:25 18:16 28:15 60:6 total 17:23 18:2
55:4,20 56:22 61:14 29:12 31:25 think 8:17 11:9 33:24
61:22 63:12 32:16,19 33:17 13:8 14:7,7 tough 29:8 44:7
sufficiently 4:24 35:10 36:1 15:1,15 16:5 tougher 44:1
19:2 25:13 suggest 50:14 47:7,10,17 22:9 26:11 track 39:24
45:12 52:12,20 51:6 52:1,3 32:7,23 33:1 trained 63:23
51:18 suggested 10:4 53:24 59:13 34:20,21 35:10 transportation
63:2,5,11 suggesting taken 14:16 16:1 35:19,22 36:13 17:10
52:17 sun 55:18 talk 5:2 23:24 42:10 43:5,10 trial 7:10
53:13 support 9:4,4,5 28:11 38:18 43:17,18,21 tried 40:18
56:1 supported 6:18 41:4 64:15 44:3,19 45:20 trips 16:12
66:25 26:19 66:21 46:4,11,13,20 true 13:14,20
suppose 10:19 26:13 33:6,7 56:12 57:12,24 47:5 48:18
42:25 56:22 tax 29:14 65:22 60:19,21,22,23 21:24 23:8
supposed 22:14 teaching 56:3 61:3,15,24,25 65:3
60:1 27:23,23,24 tell 27:2 47:11 62:3,8 66:5 trying 7:24
62:8 66:11 telling 27:20 67:4 23:10 44:9
55:3 57:2 test 12:23 27:7 35:5 44:23 turns 59:6
system 13:23 30:25 threshold 61:15 28:16 39:1
validated 53:9 voters 4:14 28:6 18:13 21:9 worked 66:16
value 4:22 47:4,18,19 22:1 25:19,19 58:5
65:11,13 verifying 52:7 20:16 21:25 58:8,14 59:15 15:2 24:9
14:11 veteran 58:18 15:14 16:14 ways 6:6 13:16 worried 19:14
38:3,4 59:16 17:22 18:6,11 27:13 42:14 39:20,23
vices 56:9 18:14,18 22:7 Wednesday worth 50:23
56:8 28:19,19 30:5 weigh 64:11 42:24 43:14,19
24:16 voluntarily 6:11 44:17 51:7,23 weighing 64:20 write 40:2,4
43:16 vote 4:13 6:4,17 54:21 56:20 67:2 writing 29:22
57:20 9:4,4,12 10:23 61:14 weighty 4:24 wrong 5:8 34:13
12:5 16:3,5,8,9 well-to-do 49:1 X
23:8 32:2,18 55:12 56:24 62:7,16
3:8 19:2 41:18 44:1,6 29:21 26:1,2 40:13 years 18:21 19:9
49:4 53:5,10 walks 22:9 40:14,22 53:7 24:17 56:11,11
63:10,15 65:17 want 8:21 15:25 we're 25:20,20
25:22 33:6,7
32:12,13 37:8 $10 40:17
37:12
voter 4:19 9:21 43:12,13 53:5 we've 27:21 32:3 0
13:23 14:9 65:23 66:21 46:21 05 11:10
1:16,22 2:2 wonder 22:5 32:11 34:1
500,000 19:14
1:20 4:2 51 3:9
22:1 51a 61:1
67:14
25:2 6
31:2 60 26:5
16:25 17:8,8 62 3:12
24:24 66.8 33:7
46:3
75 31:4
32:14 56:11,11
22:1 9
30:10 9 1:17 10:1
12:11 11:23
18:15 9/11 26:17
62:6,16
1:17
51:8
32:17,21
3:4 18:21
46:6 59:7
3:6
39:12 54:1,4
56:14
38:24,25
33:6
44:11
32:14
28:17
31:22
18:6
18:10,17
17:25
32:16
38:1
60:25
32:1
22:1
