IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF :
REVENUE, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-312
PICCADILLY CAFETERIAS, INC. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 26, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SCOTT D. MAKAR, ESQ., Solicitor General, Tallahassee,
Fla.; on behalf of the Petitioner.
G. ERIC BRUNSTAD, JR., ESQ., Hartford, Conn.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
SCOTT D. MAKAR, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
G. ERIC BRUNSTAD, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SCOTT D. MAKAR, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 07-312, Florida Department of Revenue
versus Piccadilly Cafeterias.
Mr. Makar.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT D. MAKAR
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MAKAR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The virtues of reading Congress' grant of
the stamp tax exemption, 1146(c), to only
post-confirmation transfers is threefold. First, it's
faithful to the language of the statute, which requires
that there be a plan confirmed, as the courts in NVR and
Hechinger have held, and draws a simple bright-line test
at the point of confirmation, at which point the
bankruptcy judge has the power to grant that tax
exemption.
It's also based upon the principle that
taxation exemption statutes, which this is a case
involving one, must be narrowly construed if they are to
stay under principles of federalism. It also avoids the
intrusion into the State's tax system, keeping in mind
the important fact that approximately three-quarters of
these Chapter 11 cases never get to plan confirmation.
Instead, in three quarters of the cases you have, as in
Lamie and in the Hartford case, you may have a case
convert to Chapter 7 or have it be dismissed.
So a pre-confirmation tax exemption granted
by the bankruptcy judge at any point prior to
confirmation --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't understand that.
If it's never confirmed, then I guess the tax is okay,
isn't it?
MR. MAKAR: Well, Justice Breyer, what
happens in these situations is that a -- for example, a
363 sale order where the property is being sold, in that
order there is an exemption granted by the bankruptcy
judge.
JUSTICE BREYER: But so what? Isn't that --
I mean, I assume that's totally illegal, that you get --
I thought we're talking about this provision where
everybody agrees that it has to be under a plan
confirmed under section 1129. So if there's no plan
confirmed, I don't know how you would fall within this
exemption.
MR. MAKAR: Well, that's our point exactly,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. If it's your point
exactly, then I guess I must agree with that. I'll hear
from the other side. Except I thought your point was it
makes it difference whether the transfer takes place
before the plan is confirmed or after. So I may be just
confused about that.
MR. MAKAR: Well, what happens in these
situations before confirmation where there is a 363
order that transfers, that the bankruptcy court then
says this is entitled to an exemption, at that point in
time the State of Florida or whatever State is denied
the revenue that would otherwise --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, no, I'm asking you
this. You then concede -- let me for my own point of
view; forget what the -- maybe I'm confused about the
facts or maybe I'm not. But let's suppose there is a
plan and it is confirmed. The transfer, however, took
place a month earlier where a private group of creditors
came together, every creditor, with the debtor and they
worked out a sale tomorrow, and they transferred the
assets tomorrow. Four months later, the plan that
includes every word of that goes before the bankruptcy
judge, the bankruptcy judge thoroughly understands the
situation, and he says: I confirm the plan.
Now, under those -- in that circumstance, I
guess you now are -- are you prepared to concede that
Florida cannot tax?
MR. MAKAR: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Of course not. So then --
then the fact that there is no plan seems to me
irrelevant, that situation, from the present case.
So now let's look at this case, where there
is a plan and it is confirmed. My question, going back
to what I thought the facts are, is this: Imagine the
situation I've just described -- thorough investigation
later by the bankruptcy judge; plan including it is
confirmed. And you say if the transfer took place first
you can assert your tax, but if the transfer took place
second, after the plan, you can't.
And my question, if I'm right on my
assumption, is I'd like you to provide a reason why any
human being, a reasonable human being, would want to
make that distinction?
Why would anyone want to say we want to give
all the money to the creditors and not let Florida get
some if it takes place, the transfer, after the
confirmation, but would think differently about it and
would want Florida to get some if the transfer takes
place before the confirmation, which confirmation
describes everything in depth, is thoroughly
investigated, et cetera? What reason could there be for
such a distinction?
MR. MAKAR: Well, two things,
Justice Breyer. First of all, the Bankruptcy Code speak
in terms of a -- 1146(c) speaks in terms of a "plan
confirmed."
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not speaking of the
language for the moment. I want you to forget about the
language and assume the language is ambiguous. That's a
different question. My question is, assuming that the
language is ambiguous, as every lower court has found,
assuming that, however, is there any reason why a
reasonable human being would make this distinction?
That's my question. And there may be an answer, but I
want to know what answer is.
MR. MAKAR: Sure. In this context --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you could say this
was Congress, right?
MR. MAKAR: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE BREYER: That is not an answer.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I would appreciate an
answer to the question.
MR. MAKAR: Well, Justice Breyer, I think
the practical reason is Congress has created a
structured Bankruptcy Code, in which there is a plan
confirmation process structure that Congress has
provided here. And in this particular case, and in
perhaps the hypothetical, this was done outside the plan
confirmation process. In other words, this sale was
done even before a plan was even filed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose one of the
reasons would be how far do you go back? I mean, you go
back three years and say, well, you know, the bankruptcy
judge can say, part of what I'm confirming is the sale
that took place three years ago, so you can file for a
refund, I guess.
MR. MAKAR: Well, that's the fundamental
problem we have.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the problem? If
that's the problem, I thought that there had to be a
filing for bankruptcy before any of this kicks in.
MR. MAKAR: Well, there certainly is. There
has to be a filing for --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Then the answer
can't be you could go back 50 years. The answer would
have to be you go back until the filing for bankruptcy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why does there
have to be -- there has to be a filing for bankruptcy
before you get a plan confirmed, but I didn't understand
that to be the threshold before -- what does that mean,
there has to be a filing for bankruptcy? That the
confirmation of the plan can't go back before that?
MR. MAKAR: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It goes back before
then in a lot of cases to look for preferential
transfers and things like that.
MR. MAKAR: Well, sure, but here what we
have is the language of the statute, 1146(c), is keyed
in to a key event, which is plan confirmation, the plan
confirmed. The authority for the bankruptcy judge to
grant the tax --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your
answer to Justice Breyer was saying there's another key
event and that's the filing of the petition for
bankruptcy.
MR. MAKAR: Well, that has -- I don't see
that as having any relevance as to the authority of the
bankruptcy judge to grant the tax exemption. The
question I understood was how far back can can you go?
And our position on that is opening this up to
pre-confirmation transfers creates all sorts of
problems.
JUSTICE BREYER: What? That's what I want
to know. And I'll add a qualification. I'd say I would
read into this a context, and the context is the whole
section that gives the exemption from the State law only
kicks in when you file for bankruptcy.
So, I -- now, it's my question. I guess I
could make the hypothetical the the way I want to make
it, and the way I want to make it is that this section
applies once it kicks in, the bankruptcy filing, and it
does not distinguish between the pre- and the
post-confirmation, you know, where the confirmation
takes place after the transfer or the transfer after the
confirmation.
You're arguing to the contrary. And what I
want to know is what reason there is? Do I have to
repeat the question?
MR. MAKAR: No. No.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the reason? That's
what I want you to focus on, for making that
distinction.
MR. MAKAR: Well, as I understand the
question, Justice Breyer, you're concerned about the
pre-confirmation transfer that ultimately gets wrapped
into a plan that's ultimately confirmed and why
shouldn't that be occurring? Our position --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what the whole case
is about.
MR. MAKAR: Right. And that's the language
of the statute in our view provides that the authority
flows from the confirmed plan.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He wants a reason why that
might be. Do you know many instances in which Congress
has set up a system in which you cannot determine
whether a State tax is valid or invalid until some
future event at an indeterminate time which may be three
years later? Is that customary --
MR. MAKAR: No, in fact --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- for someone not to know
whether the tax is payable or not for sure until three
years later?
MR. MAKAR: No, that's exactly our argument.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that a good reason?
MR. MAKAR: That's our argument, which is
that it is -- is not narrowly construing the statute.
It's broadly construing it, as the Eleventh Circuit
found --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's another
assumption then that was in Justice Breyer's question
about, well, you have to have the petition, the
bankruptcy petition. But in this very case wasn't the
sale -- wasn't the basic arrangement made the day before
the petition was filed?
MR. MAKAR: Right. This appears to be one
of those so-called pre-packaged plans where it was
arranged and was sort of put together outside a formal
plan confirmation process. Under the Bankruptcy Code,
typically there's the filing of the petition --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Absolutely.
MR. MAKAR: -- and filing of the plan --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You were asked, and I
think tried to answer and never got your answer out, and
I'd like to hear: What is it you were saying about
cases in which pre-confirmation transfers are made and
the tax exemption is made? Did you start to tell us
that you might never recover the tax later on? Or what
kind of a problem does it create?
MR. MAKAR: That's precisely my point. In
three-quarters of these cases approximately, these
exemptions can be given.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but then the question
is, can you nevertheless, in an untimely fashion,
eventually get the tax imposed and the tax collected?
MR. MAKAR: Possibly. If it's in escrow,
possibly. It takes a tremendous amount of monitoring in
these cases. There's a problem with notice. The State
doesn't get notice.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there also instances
-- and, again, I'm interested in Justice Breyer's
question and Justice Stevens's question, the practical
reasons that might have prompted the statute to be drawn
in the way that you say it's been drawn. Are there also
instances where a transaction goes through and is later
unwound, is later set aside? So that the tax has to be
refunded?
MR. MAKAR: Yes. I mean, that could be a
possibility. That's our position, that this is sort of
turning this into a refund statute, perhaps in some
instances, by allowing all these pre-confirmation
transfers to be eligible for the exemption, keeping in
mind that this whole question in this case is: Are
preconfirmation transfers ever eligible? We don't think
they -- that they are because, as the courts in NVR and
Hechinger said, the natural, simple, bright-line test is
if you get to plan confirmation, if you've gone through
the process that Congress has established, and you get a
plan confirmed, then the transfer of the security --
this is not a securities case -- but the transfer of the
property has at that point been exempt from the tax.
So in our view, the purpose of the statute
would be thwarted by allowing all these pre-confirmation
exemptions. As I say, in 25 percent of the cases
perhaps you will get the plan confirmed, and perhaps --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I'm not
sure I understand the practical consequences of your
position. I assume that if you're right, people who
have an interest in buying the bankrupt business will
wait or have to wait until after confirmation of the
plan, because the tax liability is going to save them a
lot of money. Is it going to work in that case?
MR. MAKAR: Work in the sense that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, will the
effect of your plan be that it will discourage people
who come along and want to buy a bankrupt business?
MR. MAKAR: No. I think we have to put this
in context. What we have is a Chapter 11
reorganization. And then Chapter 7 of course is
liquidation, which is typically where the assets of the
company would be liquidated and sold off, and you have a
trustee. Here we have a different context. This
reorganization -- Congress established this
reorganization process.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But are you not -- are
you questioning -- what I understand to be the case,
it's not at all uncommon for a Chapter 11 these days to
have the 363(b) sale of property, then have some kind of
global settlement, and then distribute all the assets,
never have any kind of reorganization. And I didn't
understand that it was necessary to kick the case over
into Chapter 7.
Aren't there many cases filed under Chapter
11 that end up with no reorganization?
MR. MAKAR: There are a number. There are a
number. And I'm not sure exactly the number, but it's a
small but growing percentage in which the debtors are
taking advantage of Chapter 11 to liquidate rather than
go through Chapter 7. And there's reasons for that. It
may be that the debtor in possession of the company has
greater control than a trustee would and so forth.
Our point is that this is -- in this
liquidation context, it's basically trying to hammer a
Chapter 7 peg into a Chapter 11 hole, because what is
happening here is the tax exemption that Congress has
set up here, which should be narrowly construed in favor
of the State, is being broadly expanded. In fact, what
the Eleventh Circuit did below --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What harm is done? Could
you tell us in just a few words, what's the harm?
That's what Justice Breyer's concerned about.
MR. MAKAR: Well, the harm, Justice Scalia,
is that in these instances -- as I said, in cases where
he exemption is being granted unjustifiably, the State
has to expend resources on litigation. And there is now
a new test, and there has -- it is going back to court,
and there is --
JUSTICE BREYER: And it's not the
litigation. What you've said so far is, at least as I
have taken it in, that the practical harm is the
following: There will be a certain number of transfers
that take place after the filing, but before the actual
confirmation; and in respect to those transfers, the
State is left in a position of uncertainty.
You don't know if you can assert your tax or
not assert your tax until that transfer is later
confirmed as part of the confirmed plan or not.
That's what I take it as you're having said.
And then I think I'll hear in a minute somebody say, but
that kind of uncertainty is rife in the tax laws. It
often occurs that a taxing authority is not certain
about how to characterize a transaction until later
events take place which are part of, or related to, the
transaction; and the IRS and all the State tax
departments survive.
So if I'm right in guessing that, discuss.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: That's all I can say.
MR. MAKAR: The notice provision is one.
The State may not get notice. For example in NVR,
there's 5,000-and-something transfers of property that
happened in the State of Florida that we never get
notice of to object to them. If it is in a 363 context,
we probably don't get notice because we don't own the
property that is being transferred.
All this pre-confirmation effort and
expenditure of resources on -- the State has to monitor
these --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about the solvency of
the person who has tentatively been declared exempt from
your tax; so, therefore, you can't go get him right
away? This is not the ordinary citizen. This is
somebody who is on the edge of bankruptcy. You would
normally want to get your money out of him as soon as
possible before he squanders what is left, right?
MR. MAKAR: Well, I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And would it -- would it
not happen with some frequency that, even though you
could have collected the tax three years earlier, by the
time it turns out for sure that there's never going to
be a Chapter 11 confirmation --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't the tax imposed on
the purchaser, not the bankrupt's estate?
MR. MAKAR: I'm sorry, sir?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't the tax imposed on
the purchaser, rather than the bankrupt's estate?
MR. MAKAR: Under -- under Florida law it is
imposed upon the transaction and is repaid by the buyer
or the seller. But on the question here --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What I don't understand
about the -- how the Florida system works, I thought you
don't get -- you don't get the transfer recorded until
you pay the tax. I thought that's what Florida law was.
MR. MAKAR: That's correct. But here what
is happening is with the pre-confirmation orders that
are coming out with regularity, those are being used to
prevent the taxes from being paid and the recordation
of --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why can't you just say
that? Why can't you say, you want to record this
taxation, pay the tax. And when you come in later,
because it was confirmed, show us the paper. We'll give
you the money back.
How does that interfere with -- with
anything?
MR. MAKAR: Well, it becomes an
administrative burden.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why is it an administrative
burden? The burden is entirely on the people who want
their money back. They come in. They file a piece of
paper. It says Federal bankruptcy judge signed, plan
confirmed, and it would take, I guess, a few minutes to
read through it to see they're telling the truth, which
you always have the problem in a tax, and then you give
them their money back.
MR. MAKAR: Well, again, what is happening
with these orders being granted, sometimes the State
doesn't even know about it, and sometimes --
JUSTICE BREYER: Of course, you can't file
it if they don't tell the State. So if they're not
going to tell you, they're not going to have their
transfer recorded.
I mean, look, we're going into this, and on
the other side, of course, there is the following
consideration: That there are creditors who are owed a
lot of money; and all these creditors are in a room; and
they think, if I can sell these assets tomorrow, I'm
going to get a lot more money than I will if I have to
wait for six months. That's why we want to go through
with this.
Now isn't that an important bankruptcy
interest, to make the creditors more whole?
MR. MAKAR: Well, the State of Florida
doesn't want to stand in the way of -- nor do the other
States -- in the way of maximizing the value of the
estate.
And in the situation here we're talking
about a very small tax. It's only imposed in this
limited context as to when a confirmation plan comes out
in Chapter 11.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Makar, you were going
to address, I take it, the assumption that
Justice Breyer has asked you to make, which is that the
language here is ambiguous. And your position is, I
take it, that "confirmed" means "confirmed"?
MR. MAKAR: Well, absolutely. I don't
concede away our first argument. I think it's very
powerful, which is that the language of the statute,
itself, put in the context of this Chapter 11
confirmation process, read in its context, which is from
the post-confirmation section, powerfully supports the
position that this is a post-confirmation transfer
exemption.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't understand
why this is a big deal. Assuming that was news to me,
that this only arises after the filing of a bankruptcy
petition, and you are looking forward to confirmation of
the plan, this tax only applies at the transfer of
title.
Why don't you just get your deal together
and just say, well, the closing is going to be the day
after confirmation of the bankruptcy plan?
MR. MAKAR: Well -- and then --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that's when you
transfer title, and that's when you have to pay the
stamp tax.
MR. MAKAR: Well, that, in the ordinary
course of things, is what the statute envisions.
That's, of course, not what happened here, but that's
the ordinary course. And this exemption --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sometimes don't they want
the transfer to be effective whether or not there is a
later confirmation? I thought that that was the
assumption here: That some of these transfers they want
to be effective whether or not a confirmation occurs
later.
MR. MAKAR: Well, and that's what happens in
some of these cases that are transferred to Chapter 7 or
dismissed, where they get the tax exemption and then get
out of the Chapter 11 whirl, having gotten the tax
exemption, leaving the State to have to unravel what has
been done.
That's the beauty and simplicity of the
bright-line rule of Hechinger and NVR, which is that the
language of the statute says post -- it says confirmed
plan. So it is at that point that the authority of the
bankruptcy judge to grant the exemption -- the exemption
exists and, thereby, makes it self-executing in the
sense that the plan is confirmed. The order of
confirmation provides the authority for the exemption;
and from that point forward it works with -- with
simplicity. It is a very straightforward application of
the statute.
And it's the most natural reading of the
statute, as well. So I don't want the Court to at all
feel as if I'm conceding ground on the language of the
statute or the structure of the code and how it applies
here.
What I'm -- where I think there may be some
confusion is simply that in these three-quarters of the
cases these exemptions are being granted, and it is a
problem for the States to have to go out there and to
track them down and figure out what's going on in these
cases and try to unravel the exemption. So it is in
that regard that I -- if one of the exemptions --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I just ask this
question? I guess this has been the rule in Florida for
awhile. There's a problem, and has the problem been
that you actually don't get the money? Or is it an
administrative problem, keeping track of things and
finding out whether or not you are entitled to it?
MR. MAKAR: Justice Stevens, it could be
both. I think it could that be we don't know about it,
so we don't get the money. It gets filed, and then we
don't -- the order is filed with the clerk of court,
and, therefore, the money isn't received --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Are there any studies
showing how much money you've actually lost by this
practice?
MR. MAKAR: No. We've looked at it to see
if there's any data. There's nothing that I can give to
you with any reliability. I would say, anecdotally,
that it is in the low millions rather than the --
obviously the stamp tax in the State of Florida has been
in the billions of dollars overall; but that's not the
issue here. So -- but it is quite a few millions of
dollars that we believe is --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Did I understand you
correctly? You say you have, in fact, lost millions of
dollars from the failure to get access under this rule?
MR. MAKAR: Anecdotally, yes. As I said,
this is in conversations with the Department of Revenue
and so forth. There's just no hard data. That's one of
the problems in this area, since -- I did provide the
Court with some data about the number of plans that are
confirmed versus dismissed, and so forth, and the number
of filings. We have about a thousand --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It would seem to me that,
normally, because you do require recording, that there
would be -- it wouldn't be all that difficult to keep
track of all these cases in which there had been
transferred pre-confirmation transfers. And if you did
you have some filed in the computer that had them all
there, as soon as the -- if the confirmation did not
occur, you could just go ahead and send out the bills.
MR. MAKAR: Well, that system does not
exist. I don't know how difficult it would be. I would
suspect -- things sound simple sometimes in theory, and
then in practice they become very difficult in a State
as populous as --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I guess your point is
that, as a whole, the virtue of the stamp tax is that it
is virtually automatic on recording, and you don't have
to send out notices, and so forth.
MR. MAKAR: Well, absolutely. And --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The whole point of the
stamp tax.
MR. MAKAR: Absolutely, and it makes it at
that point in time certain. And the virtue, again, of
this bright-line rule is that it provides certainty,
predictability, and -- and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How long does it
typically take from the filing of the petition to
confirmation of the bankruptcy plan?
MR. MAKAR: Mr. Chief Justice, the study I
cited to the Court about the number of cases it could
be -- has data in there. It looks to be -- it
was 4,000, or something along this line. It looks to be
like the average is about -- I think it is around 450 to
600 days. I would have to pull the data and look real
closely. But that's on average. Some can be very
quick; some can take longer, depending on
the complexity.
A pre-packaged plan like the one we have
before us here, it's not clear here why they couldn't
have had the plan confirmed before the transfer. This
wasn't a perishable commodity or things along those
lines. But there is not a whole lot of data.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is it -- another question
I had: Is it not true that even under your rule there
will be a number of cases that, even though it was clear
that the transaction was after the confirmation, there's
an issue as to whether it was under the plan?
MR. MAKAR: That issue could actually arise;
and that was the Jacoby case that, in our view, sort of
spawned a lot of the problems here.
There may be some issues arising
post-confirmation. We concede that. That -- but that's
going to be less often than if we have the range of
pre-confirmation. Because if we have the range of
pre-confirmation transfers now being subject to
litigation, it's going to be at least multiples of -- in
terms of the burden on the State.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I had one question as to
operation of the tax in Florida.
Suppose a transaction -- there's no
bankruptcy. A transaction is completed. Stamps are
paid. There is then a suit to rescind the transaction
on the ground of fraud or mistake. Do you get your
money back from the stamp tax?
MR. MAKAR: There is a refund mechanism for
certain situations. I'm not sure if that one would be
covered, but I believe it would be. There are -- there
are some me mechanisms to get a refund back under the
State's systems.
If there are no further questions, I will
reserve my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Brunstad.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC BRUNDSTAD, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. BRUNSTAD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The scarcest and most precious commodity in
a Chapter 11 case is cash. Without cash, you cannot
even get to confirmation.
The way in which most debtors generate the
cash necessary to get to confirmation, to pay all of the
things that have to be paid in cash on confirmation is
through asset sales.
In fact, this tax exemption is more
important for pre-confirmation transfers to the
confirmation process than post-confirmation transfers.
Here in this case, if you look at the joint
appendix page 127, you can see the things that had to be
paid on confirmation of this plan, including
administrative expenses.
In section 1129, Congress set forth the rule
that certain things have to be paid in cash. Every
dollar that is spent to pay a stamp tax cannot be used
to pay employee claims, cannot be used to pay for goods
and services the debtor desperately needs to reorganize,
and cannot be offered to creditors to get their vote in
favor of the plan.
There is no reason, no reasonable reason why
Congress would have wanted to allow the exemption for a
thousand-dollar transfer that occurs after confirmation,
but not to a ten-million-dollar transfer that occurs
just prior to confirmation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because you don't know
whether that second one will ever be a sale under a
plan, which is what the code requires. It has to be a
transfer under a plan. And when it occurs, you don't
know whether it is going to be an under plan or not.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, Justice Scalia, I think
that depends on how you define the term "under." And,
getting back to your prior question --
JUSTICE SCALIA: At the time it occurs it
doesn't matter how you define the term. There is no way
at the time it occurs to say that this is a transfer
under a plan. There hasn't been a confirmed plan.
MR. BRUNSTAD: There has not been a
confirmed plan, but there is often --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It requires under a plan
confirmed.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, it requires that there
be a plan confirmed. Now, it doesn't say "confirmed
plan." Where Congress intended to foreclose discussion,
it says --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It says "a plan confirmed."
How do you know at the time the transfer is made whether
it is under a plan confirmed?
MR. BRUNSTAD: You don't necessarily know,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't at all know.
JUSTICE SOUTER: In fact, you do know, I
presume, on the statistics that the odds are three to
one against there being a confirmed plan.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Souter, but that
underscores how difficult it is to confirm plans in
Chapter 7, why Congress wanted to make it easier by
providing this tax relief. You need cash to confirm.
For example, the administrative expenses --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I am -- I don't quite
follow the leap you just made.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, the whole purpose of
1146(a) is tax relief. It is tax relief to provide more
dollars for other Chapter 11 purposes. You cannot
confirm a plan without hard, cold cash.
In the LTD bankruptcy, the administrative
expenses that had to be paid in full prior to the
effective date of the plan were north of $200 million.
This really makes a difference. This is a live,
flesh-and-blood problem.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought, Mr. Brunstad,
that the question was asked: So the State is not going
to get its tax at the time of the asset transfer,
because the cash is needed to eventually have a plan
that works. So the State doesn't get its tax.
And then it turns out that there is no plan;
that the case is dismissed. What happens then? Florida
has to get back -- at that point gets the tax that it
wanted up front?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Justice Ginsburg, the
practice is to escrow the funds so they will be
available as an administrative expense if it turns out
there is no confirmed plan.
In addition, this is no different than any
other asset sale in bankruptcy where if the tax
exemption is not allowed, they claim it as an
administrative expense.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They are all paid up
front, but they are put into escrow. Is that what you
are telling me?
MR. BRUNSTAD: That is the practice,
Justice Ginsburg. And the reason why Florida is never
harmed is because the procedures are the same whether it
is a Chapter 11 case or Chapter 7. They have to come to
the bankruptcy court and file a request for payment of
this kind of tax anyway.
JUSTICE BREYER: So there is no case, to
your knowledge -- not millions of dollars, but there is
no case, to your knowledge, where, in fact, people
transferred the assets; they thought there would be a
plan confirmed; there was no plan confirmed; and then
the State was not paid?
MR. BRUNSTAD: None that I'm aware of,
Justice Breyer. And here is why that shouldn't happen.
It is theoretically possible, but here is why that
should not happen.
Because when the -- a transfer is made under
section 360(c) -- excuse me, 363 -- the transfers are
made free and clear of all claims in interest. That's
what section 363 provides.
If the State wants to get its tax, in the
ordinary course it comes into the bankruptcy court
anyway, just as Florida did in this case, to file a
request for payment of the tax.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You would have no reason to
know the answer to that question. You are not the
State.
The State has told us that millions of
dollars have been lost in taxes not recovered.
MR. BRUNSTAD: That's because the exemption
applies, Justice Scalia. The courts apply this
exemption in Chapter 11. It is only applied in Chapter
11, not Chapter 7.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't it odd that the --
isn't it odd that the Congress would have required, we
will assume, this escrow procedure when the odds are
three to one against the non-taxability?
It seems to me that just as matter of simple
efficiency, they would not have required this elaborate
procedure when the odds are that the procedure would be
to no avail to the bankruptcy State -- the State.
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Souter, because
the purpose of Chapter 11, as we know, is to facilitate
reorganization, rehabilitation, saving jobs. It is very
difficult. Congress understood it would be difficult.
That's why it made Chapter 11 more liberal than former
Chapter 10 under the Bankruptcy Act of 1898. That's why
we have this tax relief, to provide more dollars that
are available to make that process actually work. This
is a real flesh-and-blood problem.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it often the
case -- and I don't know, but is it often the case that
the people who are engaged in one these asset purchases
are, in fact, the creditors themselves? In other words,
they are owed a lot of money and said, well, let's --
basically, let's take over the business and run it
ourselves?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Sometimes, Chief Justice
Roberts, but not often. And the reason why we have
these asset sales quickly in bankruptcy, think of the
warehouse of the bananas. If you file bankruptcy, you
have got to sell those bananas right away. You can't
wait for months and months and months until the plan is
confirmed, because there's nothing left to sell.
Here we have a business which we call the
melting ice cube. It an operating business with
employees, but we've got to get it into the hands of
somebody with capital quickly. Otherwise, this business
is going to be -- shut its doors. All of those people
will be let go. That's why we had a quick sale here:
To preserve value, to preserve jobs.
We couldn't wait until the plan-confirmation
process played out. And, in fact, there could not have
been a confirmed plan without the sale because the
creditors were fighting too hard about who was going to
get what. We had to have the sale first, and we had to
do it quickly to maximize the value, preserve the
business, save the jobs.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I assume that
the creditors have an interest in that as well. I don't
know how -- I mean, they are the ones who could move
quickly to get the confirmation of the plan, because
they are the ones whose interests have to be addressed
before the plan can be confirmed.
So wouldn't they have an interest in the
melting bananas, or whatever?
(Laughter.)
MR. BRUNSTAD: Chief Justice Roberts, the
answer to that question is that the creditors have
diverse interests. Secure creditors often want to
liquidate quickly. They want to get their collateral
liquidated because they may be paid in full out of that.
That may leave nothing for the unsecured creditors, the
tort victims, the employees who have wage claims, the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
In order for there to be cash for those
entities, a more negotiated sale or a different process
might have to be followed. That's what happened in this
case. There was enough to pay the secured creditors in
full and give a 45 to 50 percent distribution to
unsecured creditors, including the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation.
JUSTICE ALITO: You say the test is whether
it is instrumental. A transfer has to be instrumental
to the plan, is that correct?
MR. BRUNSTAD: That is a standard that we
offer, Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: That is different from
"necessary"?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, it is. It is -- it is
more open.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what does it mean?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, basically, Justice
Alito, it encompasses almost any pre-confirmation
transfer. It's a wide open standard. I want to be up
front about that. You could say -- you could use a
dictionary definition of under in accordance with, it's
about the same. It would cover all of pre-petition --
I'm sorry -- the pre-confirmation transfers where you
ultimately have a confirmed plan, because all of them
will be generating cash that make confirmation possible.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand your
arguments about the desirability. How do you squeeze it
into the statutory language?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, a couple --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under a plan and
you're suggesting that it's under the plan before there
is a plan.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, the standard -- the
test at 1146(a) requires that there be a plan confirmed
under section 1129. So we have three parts of the
statute. We have an incident of transfer, that's
undisputed. We do in this case have a plan confirmed
under section 1129. And we do, in fact, have a stamp
tax. The question --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You missed the crucial --
the crucial part. The transfer has to be under a plan
confirmed. I mean, that's the troublesome language.
The transfer has to be under a plan confirmed.
MR. BRUNSTAD: But we know, Justice Scalia,
that in -- where the same language is used, in section
365(g), it cannot possibly mean post-confirmation
events. It cannot possibly. Because section 365(g)
addresses assumptions or rejections of executory
contracts under a plan confirmed under Chapter 11. That
cannot happen post confirmation because, as this Court
said properly in Bildisco, assumption or rejection must
occur prior to confirmation of a plan.
So the same language used elsewhere in the
statute, exactly the same, cannot possibly mean
post-confirmation. It must mean something else. And we
think it means a transfer that occurs either before or
after confirmation as long as you have a confirmed plan.
Now, it's also critical that where Congress
intended to foreclose the debate to require that there
be a plan first, such as in section 1142(b) or section
511(b), Congress said "under a confirmed plan." You
cannot insert a verb between confirmed and plan, where
it's confirmed plan.
In this section, Congress -- in 1146(a),
Congress said plan confirmed under section 1129. Does
that mean plan that has been confirmed, plan that may be
confirmed, plan that is confirmed? It's ambiguous.
It's ambiguous.
Again, in section 1142(b), Congress
expressly dealt with transfers under a plan -- under a
confirmed plan. And in context, that distinct language
means there was a plan first, and then it authorizes
parties under the plan to make the transfers that are
authorized under the confirmed plan.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is it relevant, as your
friend on the other side pointed out, that the
particular section in question occurs within the statute
under the general heading of "Post-Confirmation
Matters"?
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Souter. And
here's why. We know, for example, in section
1145(c)(2), which is also part of subchapter 3, that
expressly applies to an exemption for sales of
securities between the petition date and the
confirmation date.
In addition, section 1146(b) itself allows
for requests for determination of the tax effects of the
plan before the confirmation date. So we know for a
fact that the rules in subpart 3, some of them apply to
pre-confirmation periods, requests, and exemptions.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't the -- isn't the
normal reading, if we're going to give any weight to the
placement in the statute at all -- and I think we're
entitled to give some, that unless there is the kind of
clarity that you've just been describing in these two
exceptions, that, in fact, the placement there indicates
that it is dealing with a post-confirmation matter?
MR. BRUNSTAD: I think it is entitled to
some weight, Justice Souter, but I think it is
completely undercut by some of the very provisions of
subchapter 3 by their terms apply to pre-confirmation
events.
Similarly, some the provisions of subchapter
2, section 1127(b) applies expressly to
post-confirmation matters. Congress was not consistent
in placement -- placing things exclusively under one
heading or another.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Brunstad, there's an
aspect of the way this looks that I don't understand,
and you're an expert in this area. Perhaps you can
explain it to me.
You have one of these 363(b) sales of
property, and then you have a global settlement with the
creditors. What function does the plan serve after you
have all that? The assets have been sold. The
creditors have made a settlement. There's going to be
no reorganization; whatever there is, is going to be
distributed.
What is the function of having a plan after
all that confirmed? I know one purpose of it is that
you avoid paying the stamp tax. But is there any other
purpose once you have already settled that the sale is
made, the creditors agree on how it's going to
be divided up? What is the function that the plan
serves?
MR. BRUNSTAD: That's an excellent question,
Justice Ginsburg. The answer is, I think, important.
And there is an excellent answer, and that is, whereas
Chapter 7 liquidations are sort of off-the-rack, Chapter
11 liquidations are custom-made. The plan is
custom-made and tailored to the particular assets and
circumstances of the particular case.
The assets that were sold in this case was
not all the assets to be sold, Justice Ginsburg. That
often happens. And this plan provides for the orderly
liquidation in a specific way of the assets that
weren't, in fact, sold.
There also are all kinds of claims that have
to be resolved and dealt with. This plan, in a
customized way, dealt with with the resolution of those
claims -- the PBGC liabilities, tort liabilities, all
different kinds of liabilities and concerns -- in a much
more efficient and tailor-made way than could have
happened if the case had been converted to an
off-the-rack Chapter 7 case.
There is a test which the lawyers and the
courts apply as to whether we should stay in Chapter 11
when the situation has been that most of the assets have
been sold or whether we should convert to Chapter 7, and
that is whether it's in the best interests of the
creditors and the best interests of the estate to stay
in the Chapter 11.
That test was met here. It was clearly in
the best interest to stay in the Chapter 11, because we
got that customized procedure: A plan administrator who
was appointed subsequently who is continuing to
liquidate assets and distribute the proceeds. We have
all kinds of benefits.
Now, it is not possible to confirm a Chapter
11 plan simply to escape tax liabilities. Section 1129
says you cannot confirm a plan if the primary purpose is
to escape tax liabilities. So there is a protection for
the State there as well.
Here, of course, the primary purpose of
confirming the plan was not just to he avoid tax
liabilities. It was to do all these other
administrative things in a custom-made way.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is the section you
mentioned earlier that uses "under" in a sense that
clearly applies to pre-confirmation?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Section 365(g),
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm looking for it, and I
can't --
MR. BRUNSTAD: We quote it in part on page
38 of our brief. And it is quoted in part on page 17 of
the Petitioner's brief.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did you make that argument
there?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes. Yes, Justice Scalia.
On pages 38 and -- 37, 38, and 39, we specifically talk
about section 365(g)(1), and we cite the Bildisco case
and specifically made the point --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How does that provision
read? Do you have it quoted here?
MR. BRUNSTAD: I do, Justice Scalia. Let me
quote it for you exactly. Section 365(g) deals with
what the effect of a rejection -- I'm sorry -- effect of
breaching an executory contract is. And there are two
subparts, 365(g)(1), which provides: "If such contract
or lease has not been assumed under this section or" --
here's the language that is the same -- "under a plan
confirmed under Chapter 11."
So, if the contract or lease has not been
assumed or -- under this section, section 365, or under
a plan confirmed under Chapter 11, then the breach is
basically deemed to have existed just immediately prior
to the filing of the bankruptcy case.
It is exactly the same language. And it is
also in (g)(2), the same language is used yet again.
It cannot be the case that the election to
assume or reject an executory contract can occur
post-confirmation. It cannot. Why? Because, as this
Court explained in Bildisco, the assumption or rejection
must occur prior to confirmation, up until the point of
confirmation, is the language this Court used. The
lower court decision, the TWA case, et cetera, all say
exactly the same thing. And there's an important reason
for that.
The standard for assumption or rejection,
even if it is elected in a plan, is you have to satisfy
section 365. And that has to be done through a court
order, through a court proceeding that has to occur
essentially before the court actually confirms the plan.
So the same language used --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why? Why?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Because the debtor has to
elect -- the debtor has to make a decision before
confirmation so we know what's going to happen to the
property, and so the creditor can timely final a claim
if it is going to be rejection, because the creditor
does not file a claim for rejection damages for
rejection of the contract until the assumption or
rejection is determined. That particular thing is
postponed.
But we must know that prior to confirmation
because we have to know how to treat the creditor's
claim; if we have to pay that creditor significant
money, what's going to happen to the property. For
example, Justice Souter, suppose it is a contract to
purchase a Boeing 767 for $600 million. The debtor
might file for bankruptcy, one of the airlines files for
bankruptcy and might have to decide whether to honor
that obligation or to reject that obligation, assume it
or reject. We need to have that information. We need
to know if the debtor is going to have to pay that $600
million before confirmation. We can't wait until after
because it's too important to the plan. It's too
important in dealing with the asset.
That's why all the courts, including this
one, have said you must make the assumption-or-rejection
election up until confirmation, never after. So it
can't be the case that the specific language "under a
plan confirmed under Chapter 11" as used in section 365
refers to post-confirmation, but that is in fact the
same language used in section 1146.
Now, contrast that with the language used in
sections 1142(b) or 511(b), which talks about a
"confirmed plan." And, in context, that language
clearly means a plan comes first. Congress could have
used that same formulation in section 1146(a); it chose
not to. And under Russello and the other precedents of
this Court's canons of construction, we should give that
semantic choice its deference. And, again, there's a
reason. So a statute --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your argument there
is that "under a plan confirmed" means something
different than "under a confirmed plan"?
MR. BRUNSTAD: In context, yes, Chief
Justice Roberts. And if you look at section 1142(b), I
think you can -- you can actually see in context why
that so clearly means -- that so clearly means the plan
comes first and then is confirmed. But again, it's
different language that is used.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you -- do you
agree with the proposition that you only go back so far
as the filing of the petition? Well, what in your
argument suggests that that's a logical stopping point?
It seems to me that if you don't take the date of
confirmation, I don't know why all of your policy
arguments wouldn't cause you to go back further.
MR. BRUNSTAD: By statute, Chief Justice
Roberts, section 103 provides that the provisions of
Chapter 11, in Chapter 11, including section 1146, apply
only in a Chapter 11 case. There is no case --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but we've
already shown a willingness to abandon that type of
limitation with "under a plan confirmed." So, you know,
the consideration of the prior transfer is going to take
place in the context of a bankruptcy case.
MR. BRUNSTAD: The only sections that apply
basically to pre-bankruptcy, pre-petition matters, are
the avoidance powers in section, for example, the
preference actions in section 547, the fraudulent
transfer provisions in section 548. Those things
expressly apply to pre-bankruptcy events, and they say,
before the -- "90 days before the commencement of the
case," those kinds of things. When Congress wanted to
reach back before the petition date, it used very
specific terms of the art, very specific authorization.
Nothing like that appears anywhere in
section 1146(a), and for good reason. It's very clear,
and every court to have looked at this has so held, that
1146(a) does not apply before the case is commenced.
And that makes sense because the purpose is to give tax
relief to facilitate the Chapter 11 process. You want
to have cash available --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me just ask this. As
a practical matter does the judge, the bankruptcy judge,
enter some kind of an order approving the transfer, even
though it's pre-confirmation, an order to establish the
tax exemption?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Stevens. In
fact, that has to happen.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So it would have to be
after the filing of the bankruptcy proceeding.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Stevens, it
must. And under section 363, the Bankruptcy Court must
approve sales like this on notice to creditors, which
would include the State. And here, in fact, what
happened is consistent with what happens in almost every
bankruptcy case. Because the State has an interest, a
taxing interest, in the transfer, the State will get
notice, which Florida gave here. They have an
opportunity to come and object if they wish to, which
they did here.
There are actually more protections for the
State for pre-confirmation transfers than
post-confirmation transfers. After the confirmation of
the plan, the Bankruptcy Court's work is essentially
done, and then you're just out in the world under the
plan and the debtor is making sales and transfers.
There isn't the opportunity for the State to come in and
actually object to things as there is pre-confirmation.
So here the State actually has more
protections for the pre-confirmation sale --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do you know
whether to pay the tax or not? I mean, you know that
the bankruptcy petition has been filed, but you really
don't know whether there's going to be a plan confirmed
under Chapter 11. How do you know whether to pay or
not?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, for example --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I assume there are
penalties if you don't pay on time.
MR. BRUNSTAD: There's a very practical
reason for that question, Chief Justice Roberts, and
that is in this case the Bankruptcy Court specifically
determined in his order, judge in his order, that the
exemption would apply. So that was determined in the
order. Of course --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But this doesn't
happen for some time down the road, right?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Up to, I guess -- we
were told up to 400 days.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, you can't have a sale
until the Bankruptcy Court approves it. In the process
of approval, the Bankruptcy Court was asked and made the
determination that 1146(a) would apply. Now, what
happens then is the State can come in and has the right
to file a request for payment of administrative expense
and the funds are escrowed, because if in fact there
ends up not being a confirmed Chapter 11 plan, then the
State is entitled to its tax, and the money is then paid
to the State, its request for payment of administrative
expenses is allowed, and it gets is money. But this can
make --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's always escrowed? Is
that --
MR. BRUNSTAD: It's not always escrowed,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that a uniform practice?
MR. BRUNSTAD: That is the practice, but
it's not uniform because in some cases there's no need
for an escrow. There are some cases in which we know
there's going to be enough cash available that the State
will be paid, so we don't need that safety. But the
State can always ask for it, and if the State asks for
it I'm almost certain in most cases it will get it.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it relevant that this is
a tax-exemption provision?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, I think it's relevant
in the sense that Congress was clearly intending here to
grant tax relief to Chapter 11 debtors to facilitate the
Chapter 11 process. It's not a tax exemption, Justice
Alito, in the sense of, for example, an exemption to a
revenue-raising provision. In other words, you could
have a State statute that says: The purpose of the
statute is to raise taxes and we'll create exemptions.
That's one context. And there it might make sense to
say: Well, look, while the overall purpose of the
statute is to raise revenue, we might construe the
exceptions to that purpose narrowly.
Here the purpose of Chapter 11 is to
facilitate the Chapter 11 process. So I think we
construe this revenue-raising -- I'm sorry -- this tax
relief measure consistent with that overall purpose.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why shouldn't we look to
see how it was in the Internal Revenue Code with respect
to the Federal State tax exemption? That I think leaves
no room for argument. This case might be argued either
way about does it apply to preconfirmed plan asset
transfers? But as I understand it, this section 4382(b)
was limited to post-confirmation transfers, that is
transfers made within five years after confirmation of
the plan.
MR. BRUNSTAD: That's the limitation that
the United States wanted to add to section 267 of the
Bankruptcy Act of 1898. Congress did not grant the
United States' request. The United States said this is
administratively too difficult to administer, and
Congress rejected that testimony from the representative
of the Treasury and enacted section 267 over the
objection of the United States.
Now, the United States after the Excise Tax
Reduction Act, I think of 1965, does not really have
many excise taxes. And so the testimony of the
Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Code -- Revenue
Service in 1978, when the Bankruptcy Code was being
adopted, was that the United States doesn't really care
about stamp taxes. It really didn't have a position on
it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what was -- what
did section -- I'm not talking about -- you mentioned
267. 42 -- 4382(b), what did that say?
MR. BRUNSTAD: I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Section -- 26 U.S.C.
4382(b).
MR. BRUNSTAD: 4382(b)?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Was that the revenue
provisions --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was in the 1954
Code. I'm not talking about 1898.
MR. BRUNSTAD: That one I'm not certain of,
Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that said that
the tax exemption was limited to transfers
post-confirmation.
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Ginsburg. There
the three -- the history of the development of the
statute is section 77(b)(F) and then went to section 267
and then went to section 1146. That's the direct --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Maybe you can straighten
me out, because where I get this from is the brief for
the State, and it's at page 17, mentions the
now-repealed 4382(b).
MR. BRUNSTAD: That may, Justice Ginsburg,
have been a mirror provision. Before 1938, the
tax-exemption provisions under the Bankruptcy Code were
mirrored. There was a provision in the Bankruptcy Act
in section 77(b)(F). There were also mirroring
provisions under the bankruptcy -- under the Internal
Revenue Code. Those were eliminated and instead we just
have section 267 under the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, which
dealt with the exemption in bankruptcy.
Justice Ginsburg, I think that, going back
to your earlier point, I think it's important to
underscore that the context of this case is different
from other contexts in which the discussion of how we
should construe a tax exemption applies. I think the
Court here should apply the analysis that it applied in
Dolan, where the Court was considering application of a
similar canon of narrow construction, and the Court
said: Well, in construing the Federal Tort Claims Act,
in juxtaposition to this concept that we construe
waivers of sovereign immunity narrowly, we don't apply
that because that would basically run afoul of the
purpose of the Federal Tort Claims Act provisions.
The same thing here. The proper rule of
resolution where we have an ambiguous statute is to look
to the purpose of the statute, and the purpose here is
to make Chapter 11 easier by granting tax relief. And I
think that, consistent with that purpose, the Court
should construe section 1146(a) --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Could I?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Scalia?
JUSTICE SCALIA: You know, we've said in
other opinions no -- no statute pursues its purposes at
all costs. And the limitations contained in a statute
are as much a part of its purpose as the broad purpose
that you just mentioned. I mean, if a -- if a "plan
confirmed" means a plan confirmed, that limitation is
part of the purpose no less than the broad purpose that
you express.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, that -- that's true in
general, Justice Scalia, but if Congress had really
wanted to narrow the purpose here to post-confirmation,
it would have surely used the temporal limitations it
used, for example in section 1127, where the Court said
before -- the Congress said before confirmation you do
this; after confirmation you do that. That is a -- that
is a standard legislative technique used throughout the
Bankruptcy Code that was not used in section 8.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe, but "under a plan
confirmed" seems under normal interpretation of language
to me to mean under a plan that has been confirmed.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, I think, Your Honor, as
the Court stated in Ardestani, quote, "The word 'under'
has many dictionary definitions, and we must draw its
meaning from its context," close quote. And under
Robinson, the Court looked to, where there was an
ambiguous statute, the purpose as the way to resolve the
ambiguity, and I submit that should happen here.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Brunstad.
Mr. Makar, you have five minutes remaining,
and during those five minutes I hope you'll give an
answer if you have one to the 365(g)(1) argument that
your friend has made.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT D. MAKAR
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MAKAR: Sure, I'm be glad to, Mr. Chief
Justice.
365(g) here speaks in terms of a rejection
of an executory contract --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that spelled out
somewhere in the -- is its text somewhere in these
materials?
MR. MAKAR: The full text? I'm sorry; it'
not.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's on page 38, the last
line, the next to the last line.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not the full, not the full
section, though.
JUSTICE BREYER: The red brief.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just little snippets of it.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. MAKAR: This provision 365(g) says the
rejection of an executory contract constitutes a breach
of such contractual relief if the contractual relief is
not under a section under a plan. What that means is
that it's deemed rejected if, at the time of plan
confirmation -- not before, but at the time of plan
confirmation. If it's not in the plan, it's deemed a
rejection, rejected. That's merely a -- an instrument
to say when the contract is -- is deemed rejected. If
it's in the plan it's not rejected. If it's not in the
plan -- it doesn't get --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I'm sorry.
Doesn't the rejection have to take place prior to the
plan being confirmed?
MR. MAKAR: It says the rejection --
JUSTICE BREYER: Does it or doesn't it?
Prior to in your opinion or not prior to?
MR. MAKAR: Rejection may occur before that,
but the -- is referring to -- rejection in an executory
contract constitutes a breech, the -- when it is a
breach. And it's only determined -- determined to be a
breach --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm sorry. I don't
understand how that would work. I have a contract with
Boeing for $500 million. I decide to reject it.
Now if that breach doesn't occur until the
plan is confirmed, how does the trust -- how does
bankruptcy judge know how to treat Boeing as a creditor?
MR. MAKAR: Well, at the point of -- the
statute speaks in terms of the point of plan
confirmation.
JUSTICE BREYER: I understand that. But I'm
sorry -- doesn't the plan which its confirmed have a
list of the creditors and how they are treated?
MR. MAKAR: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. How do we write
the plan if, in fact, no breach has occurred and he
hasn't become a creditor until the plan is, in fact,
confirmed?
MR. MAKAR: Well, I'm not sure I am
following. But I think the language of the statute here
is in a different context, which is saying that the
rejection is -- constitutes a breach but gas not been
assumed, and at that point it has not been assumed, but
at the point of confirmation --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I can understand -- just
taking a quick look at 365(g), why it serves a different
purpose and a different function.
But the Respondent's point was, you have to
interpret "under" differently under your view, under
365, than under the statute at issue.
Do you agree with that?
MR. MAKAR: No. No. Because under a plan
confirmed in 365(g) relates to point of confirmation or
beyond, and we believe under 1146(c) or under 1146(a,
Congress has readopted it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your argument is
that you don't have a rejection of the executory conduct
-- contract -- until the plan is confirmed? That's
what Congress --
MR. MAKAR: That's what -- I'm sorry yes.
That's -- at that point. That doesn't undermine the
argument that under a plan confirmed, 1146(c) means at
the point of confirmation or beyond.
The most natural reading of 1146(c) is to
provide this post-confirmation transfer exemption. No
one is contesting that. That's the natural reading of
the -- of the statute.
And the point here of there being more
protection and, for example, is simply not the case.
The State is not on notice ob many of these transfers as
an MVR. Those were transfers that were outside the
ordinary course of business. We would give not notice
of that. And in the ordinary course of 363 practice,
parties that have an interest in the property -- the
State doesn't- -- do not get notice of that proceeding.
So that -- this notion that there's more protection in
pre-confirmation than post-confirmation is just
unsupportable.
In -- in conclusion, Your Honors, this is a
tax exemption statute, and under this Court's principles
it should be narrowly construed. It shouldn't be
expanded to this pre-confirmation transfers with all the
problems it creates, in the three quarters of cases that
don't get confirmed, and have all these intrusions upon
them, but -- local governments in their collection of
the stamp tax. For that reason we ask the Eleventh
Circuit be reversed. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
59:1 37:7 53:1 54:8 26:24 41:17 22:4 46:22 47:1,9
24:19,22 analysis 52:17 50:6 54:15,17 46:4 48:13 50:14,24
52:6,10 answer 7:13,14 35:16 45:10 authorizes bankrupt's
7:19,22 8:19 arises 20:20 37:11 17:22,25
anyway 30:24 art 46:4 49:6 42:11 45:21
46:5 asks 49:8 aware 31:6 26:25 54:18
22:24 application 22:6 assert 6:12 16:9 a.m 1:14 3:2 26:17 57:14
29:12,19 52:18 16:10 Benefit 34:13,19
41:6
52:17 30:13 32:21 back 6:7 8:7,8 best 40:14,15,18
20:22 22:11 assets 5:20 9:19 15:25 big 20:19
38:18 41:9 31:3 39:4,20 26:14,18 28:11 41:21 42:18
57:11 50:7 52:17,22 43:23 47:23 14:10 55:11 56:5,6
49:10 approves 48:12 assumption 6:15 8:21,23 9:1,10 4:16,25 5:12
approving 46:14 11:20 20:6 9:15,18 10:2,6 6:3 7:3,6,19,21
Ardestani 54:4 assumptions 19:20 20:20 10:19 16:2,22
argued 50:6 assumption-o... 26:11 29:19 20:7 30:25
56:7 call 33:8 29:10,17 30:22 41:9 44:14 58:14
canon 52:19 30:22 31:25,25 45:1,1 49:13 conduct 57:17
15:20 capital 33:11 36:13 39:18,18 close 54:6 29:9,11,18
55:7 case 3:4,21 4:3,3 40:18,23 42:7 closing 20:25 confirmation
21:23 11:22 13:12,19 45:13,13,14 22:11 28:6 6:21,23,23 8:1
14:6,20,25 46:10 47:20 50:4,23,24 8:4 9:2,9 10:8
31:2,16 32:20 characterize cold 29:18 16:7 17:20
36:1 39:21,22 Chief 3:3,9 8:6 collected 12:19 21:1,12,14
26:23 27:1 42:12,15,21 13:25 14:8 collection 58:20 25:21 27:5,7,8
44:7 45:14,14 20:18 21:3 come 14:10 27:12,15 28:1
45:19 46:2,8 25:1,4 26:22 18:15,24 30:22 28:3 33:25
31:6 47:1 48:2 50:6 27:1 32:19 47:4,12 48:15 35:14 36:14,16
32:10 52:14 58:4,24 33:1,22 34:6 comes 20:3 36:21 37:24
34:6,24 58:25 35:15,19 44:20 31:15 44:14 38:2 42:19,20
cases 4:1,2 9:5 44:23 45:4,11 45:2 43:8,15 44:1,6
37:19 12:10,15,22 45:15 47:16,23 coming 18:10 45:9 47:8
39:15 13:23 15:2,22 48:1,6,9 54:11 commenced 50:10 53:21,22
21:17 22:15,18 54:19 57:16 46:8 55:15,16 56:15
44:23 24:5 25:5,20 58:23 commencement 57:4,13,23
46:17 49:4,5,9 58:18 choice 44:18 46:1 confirmed 3:15
47:22,25 cash 27:4,4,7,8 chose 44:15 Commissioner 4:9,20,21 5:4
27:18 29:11,18 Circuit 11:17 50:23 5:16 6:7,11 7:5
50:12 30:2 34:14 15:17 58:22 commodity 8:24 9:10
35:14 46:11 circumstance 25:16 27:3 10:21 11:2
52:3 49:6 5:24 company 14:15 13:18,24 16:11
54:3 cause 45:10 circumstances 15:9 16:11 18:16
certain 16:5,15 39:21 completed 26:11 19:1 20:9,9
26:7 27:18 49:9 cited 25:5 38:14 23:25 25:15
33:8,9 certainly 8:17 claim 30:14 43:9 25:12 28:21,24 29:1
58:7 certainty 24:24 43:11,17 computer 24:7 29:7 30:11
52:24 concept 52:21 36:25 37:1,2,4
21:19 27:4 clearly 40:17 conclusion 45:2,17 47:19
53:13,13 9:25,25 14:12 42:18,20,21 45:8 46:3 43:13 48:3,4
55:23 14:16 15:12 43:1,2,3 46:7 day 11:23 20:25 56:5,5
17:2 20:3,13 46:22 48:2,12 days 14:21 25:9 development
20:14 37:10 48:13 52:17,18 46:1 48:10 51:21
44:13,23,25 52:19 53:4,20 deal 20:19,24 dictionary 35:10
52:14 54:6 courts 3:15 44:3 difference 5:3
8:1 contract 42:3,4 cover 35:11 debtor 5:18 15:9 40:6 44:22
13:17 42:8,16 43:12 covered 26:17 27:21 43:6,7 45:3 52:14
15:14 43:19 54:22 create 12:13 43:20,25 47:11 57:1,6,7
28:22 55:11,18 56:4 49:19 debtors 15:6 differently 6:21
32:3,13 56:8 57:18 created 7:24 27:6 49:14 57:9
37:3 contracts 36:13 creates 9:21 decide 43:22 difficult 24:4,11
38:19 contractual 58:18 56:9 24:13 29:9
46:2 55:12,12 creditor 5:18 decision 42:21 32:13,13 50:16
50:14,17 contrary 10:11 43:9,10,17 43:7 direct 51:23
57:15 contrast 44:11 56:12,22 declared 17:9 discourage 14:9
control 15:10 creditors 5:17 deemed 42:11 discuss 16:20
convert 4:4 32:22 33:18,23 define 28:10,13 dismissed 4:4
45:18 converted 40:8 34:19 39:3,5 definitions 54:5 30:5
34:13,20 46:23 56:18 Department 1:3 distinction 6:17
50:2 34:23 critical 36:22 departments distinguish 10:7
correctly 23:18 crucial 36:4,5 16:19 distribute 14:23
56:4 counsel 13:25 customary 11:8 25:11 distributed 39:7
26:22 58:23 customized 40:4 depends 28:10 distribution
52:19 course 6:3 14:13 custom-made described 6:9 diverse 34:8
52:16,21 21:9 31:15 describing 38:9 Dolan 52:18
41:3 48:5 58:7 D desirability dollar 27:19
58:16 court 1:1,13 3:7 54:17 desperately 23:19 29:17
52:20 15:25 22:9 data 23:10,22,24 determination doors 33:12
41:8 48:23,25 13:11 15:14,23 failure 23:19 23:13 26:9
ESQ 1:16,18 2:3 20:17 21:9,18 faithful 3:14 30:5,20 31:16
essentially 43:3 22:18 27:10,25 far 8:7 9:19 16:3 flows 11:2
established 48:4 49:15,16 favor 15:15 followed 34:16
29:21 estate 17:22,25 52:11,16 57:25 Federal 18:25 19:13 56:25
36:11 38:16 exist 24:11 file 8:10 10:2 formulation
exactly 4:23 5:1 expend 15:24 filed 8:5 11:24 forward 20:21
58:21 36:18 42:1,13 17:6 24:7 47:18 found 7:10
45:22 47:22 expert 38:24 16:6 20:20 45:23
excellent 39:15 express 53:15 filings 24:1 friend 37:15
38:8,12 excuse 31:11 46:10 49:14,25 37:11 44:14 39:13 57:7
executory 36:12 fact 3:25 6:4 45:2 fundamental
57:17 29:5 31:2 Fla 1:17 further 26:20
58:20 hear 3:3 5:1 instrumental 4:11,16,25
53:17 49:14 50:14 13:15 21:23 36:23 8:6,14,19,22
22:15 hole 15:13 19:21 31:12 11:3,10,14,19
18:4 ground 22:10 Honors 58:14 58:9 13:1,25 14:8
30:8,16 26:13 hope 54:14 interested 12:25 14:19 15:18,20
38:22 group 5:17 human 6:16,16 interests 34:1,8 15:21 16:2,22
50:3 growing 15:6 7:12 40:14,15 17:8,16,21,24
Guaranty 34:13 hypothetical 8:3 interfere 18:18 18:4,13,22
34:20 10:4 Internal 50:4,23 19:8 20:5,7,18
guess 4:9 5:1,25 52:8 21:3,10 22:20
23:10 22:21 24:15 ice 33:9 interpretation 24:15,20 25:1
38:6,8 48:9 illegal 4:17 54:1 25:4,18 26:8
46:9 guessing 16:20 Imagine 6:8 intrusion 3:24 26:22 27:1
58:7 immediately intrusions 58:19 28:4,9,12,18
31:7,9 36:14 39:16 42:22 6:9 32:2,10,19
15:8 48:7 54:9 imposed 12:19 irrelevant 6:5 34:21,25 35:1
19:18 happened 17:1 17:21,24 18:2 IRS 16:18 35:5,6,15,19
24:9 21:8 34:16 20:2 issue 23:15 36:4,8 37:14
45:5,10 40:8 46:25 incident 35:25 25:22,23 57:10 37:19 38:5,13
15:14 18:9 includes 5:21 41:7,11,12,17
17:19 happens 4:12 27:15 34:19 Jacoby 25:24 43:5,19 44:20
5:6 21:16 30:5 44:4 45:13 jobs 32:12 33:14 44:24 45:4,11
22:17 39:24 46:25 indeterminate 33:21 45:15 46:12,17
28:8 48:15 11:7 joint 27:13 46:19,21 47:16
33:12,18 hard 23:22 indicates 38:10 JR 1:18 2:5 47:23 48:1,6,9
39:5,6,12 29:18 33:18 information 26:24 48:23 49:1,2
harm 15:18,19 43:24 judge 3:18 4:6 49:10,15 50:3
47:19 15:21 16:4 insert 37:1 4:15 5:22,22 51:3,6,7,10,13
52:12 harmed 30:21 instances 11:4 6:10 8:9 9:10 51:16,17,20,24
53:6,7 7:7,8,8,10 9:8 16:3 26:6 56:2,13,19,24 minute 16:13
10:25 20:8,12 little 55:8 57:12,20 minutes 19:1
21:24 22:10 live 29:22 making 10:16 54:13,14
35:17 36:6,9 local 58:20 47:11 mirror 52:4
56:7,16 36:17 37:10 logical 45:7 March 1:10 mirrored 52:6
57:5,16 42:6,13,14,20 long 25:1 36:21 materials 54:25 mirroring 52:7
43:4 44:7,10 longer 25:11 matter 1:12 missed 36:4
54:1 56:25 19:12 25:9 38:11 46:13 moment 7:7
22:24 lawyers 40:10 54:7 maximizing 26:14 32:23
24:15,20 lease 42:5,8 41:12 mean 4:17 7:16 monitor 17:6
57:5 leave 34:11 looks 25:6,7 8:7,25 13:7 monitoring
legislative 53:23 19:15,17 25:17 53:12 54:2 move 33:24
16:14 32:23,24 low 23:12 means 20:9 MVR 58:6
38:8 liabilities 40:5,5 lower 7:10 42:21 36:20 37:11
40:6,24 41:1,5 44:14,21 45:1 N
liberal 32:14 Makar 1:16 2:3 55:13 57:22 narrow 52:19
9:24 10:8 50:12 53:13 4:11,23 5:6 6:2 mechanism narrowly 3:22
11:4,10 limitations 7:2,15,18,23 26:15 11:16 15:15
19:7 23:2 53:10,19 8:12,17 9:3,7 mechanisms 49:23 52:22
28:4,8 limited 20:3 9:16 10:14,18 26:18 58:16
29:2,4,5 50:9 51:18 10:25 11:9,13 melting 33:9 natural 13:15
32:11,20 line 25:7 55:4,4 11:15,25 12:6 34:4 22:8 57:24
36:8 lines 25:17 12:14,20 13:7 mentioned 41:8 58:1
38:2 liquidate 15:7 14:7,11 15:4 51:4 53:12 necessarily 29:2
43:8,15 34:9 40:21 15:21 16:23 mentions 52:1 necessary 14:25
45:9 liquidated 14:15 17:15,23 18:1 merely 55:17 27:7 35:2
47:16,17 34:10 18:8,20 19:5 met 40:17 need 29:11
49:5 liquidation 19:22 20:5,10 million 29:21 43:24,24 49:4
56:12 14:14 15:12 21:2,6,16 23:1 43:20 44:1 49:7
liquidations 24:19,22 25:4 millions 23:12 needs 27:21
25:23 26:15 23:15,18 31:1 negotiated
14:24 odds 29:6 32:4,8 paper 18:16,25 piece 18:24 56:11,14,17,21
30:20 offer 34:25 part 8:9 16:11 place 5:3,17 56:22 57:12,18
offered 27:22 16:17 36:5 6:11,12,20,23 57:22
39:18 40:9 53:11,14 16:17 45:19 29:9
ones 33:24 34:1 parties 37:12 placing 38:20 please 3:10 27:2
opening 9:20 parts 35:24 4:20 5:4,16,20 4:6,23,25 5:2,9
operation 26:9 27:7,19,20,20 6:13 7:4,25 8:3 13:20 15:11
17:2 opportunity payable 11:11 12:3,6 13:16 30:6 41:22
46:23 47:4,12 paying 39:10 13:18,24 14:5 42:19 45:7
58:5,7,10 oral 1:12 2:2 3:7 payment 30:23 14:9 16:11 52:13 56:13,14
34:14 43:2 penalties 47:24 27:15,23 28:6 policy 45:9
23:24,25 48:3,5 34:19 28:17,18,21,22 position 9:20
orderly 39:24 people 14:2,9 28:24 29:1,7 10:22 13:8
21:23 ordinary 17:11 32:21 33:12 30:4,11 31:4,4 20:16 51:1
31:15 percent 13:23 33:6,17,25 possession 15:9
49:21 50:2 25:16 37:1,2,4,5,5,6 possibly 12:20
11:21,22,24 39:3,8,13,19 post 21:24 36:14
43:2 page 2:2 27:14 45:6 46:3 42:6,10,25 3:13 10:8
41:14,15 52:1 47:18 43:3 44:2,8,13 20:15,16 26:2
28:1,2,7 27:8,15,18 Petitioner's 50:7,11 53:12 47:8 50:9
36:20 29:20 30:16 41:16 53:13,25 54:2 51:19 53:18
31:5 34:10 Piccadilly 1:7 55:13,14,15,16 57:25 58:12
58:15 provides 11:1 29:25 31:19 record 18:14
14:1 16:4 36:16 42:11,19 42:4 45:12 48:1 recorded 18:6
47:25 43:15 45:18 providing 29:11 questioning 19:11
30:9,19 private 5:17 16:23 41:23 questions 26:20 24:17
58:8 probably 17:3 49:11,17 52:4 quick 25:11 recover 12:12
19:3 22:16,22 38:17 45:12,24 33:20,25 34:9 Reduction 50:21
23:23 25:25 purchase 43:20 54:4,6 26:15,18
procedure 32:4 17:25 regard 22:19
procedures purpose 13:21 R 3:1 rehabilitation
proceeding 43:2 39:9,11 40:25 range 26:3,4 reject 42:16
14:18 20:14 53:14,14,18 22:8 38:6 42:2,18,24
49:15,25 pursues 53:9 really 29:22 56:3 57:2,17
9:21 10:20 proper 52:25 20:13 30:17 51:1 53:17 related 16:17
13:10,22 properly 36:15 p.m 58:25 reason 6:15,25 relates 57:13
18:9 24:6 property 4:13 7:11,24 10:12 relevance 9:17
27:11 13:20 14:22 Q 10:15 11:3,14 relevant 37:14
38:4 16:25 17:4 qualification 27:24,24 30:20 49:10,12
41:9 39:2 43:9,18 9:24 31:18 33:2 reliability 23:11
47:7,13 58:9 quarters 4:2 42:22 44:19 relief 29:11,16
58:12,17 proposition 45:5 58:18 46:6 48:1 29:16 32:16
25:13 58:4,11 7:9,9,13,22 reasonable 6:16 50:2 53:3
45:21 47:15 10:19 11:20 reasons 8:7 13:2 remaining 54:13
23:23 29:16 13:12 18:3 rebuttal 2:7 14:13,17,18,24
32:12 Roberts 3:3 8:6 17:8,16 20:5 send 24:9,18 17:12 33:11
8:22 9:4,12 21:10 28:4,9 sense 14:7 22:3 soon 17:13 24:8
20:18 21:3 29:3,4 31:18 49:13,16,20 35:12 42:2
44:20,24 45:4 48:23 49:1,2 Service 50:24 sort 12:2 13:8
48:16,20 47:23 48:1,6,9 54:23 55:5,8 set 11:5 13:5 sorts 9:21
54:11 57:16 scarcest 27:3 15:15 27:17 sound 24:12
room 19:15 50:6 second 6:13 28:5 39:2,5 37:19 38:5,13
25:19 27:17 27:17 31:11,13 shown 45:16 so-called 12:1
52:25 35:24 36:2,9 shut 33:12 spawned 25:25
40:24 41:7,10 significant 56:14
sale 4:13 5:19 45:12,13,22,23 simple 3:16 41:20,22 48:2
14:22 28:5 50:8,13,18 32:6 spent 27:19
2:6 26:25 33:19 34:15 51:23 52:7,10 22:6 squeeze 35:16
48:11 55:6,13 40:24 58:4 23:13 24:16,21
23:21 37:22 39:1 45:20 situation 5:23 36:2 39:10
50:4,23 46:23 47:11 Secure 34:8 6:5,9 20:1 51:1 58:21
51:11 satisfy 42:25 secured 34:17 40:12 Stamps 26:11
save 14:5 33:21 securities 13:19 situations 4:12 stand 19:23
50:1 saying 9:13 12:9 security 13:18 six 19:18 35:8,22 42:24
11:25 28:23,24 40:25 self-executing 39:4,22,23 10:1 11:6
16:20 49:18 55:10,24 22:2 40:1,13 12:22 15:16,23
33:5 Scalia 7:16 sell 19:16 33:5,7 Solicitor 1:16 16:8,18,24
56:20 10:23 11:3,10 seller 18:3 solvency 17:8 17:1,6 19:6,9
24:13 structured 7:25 talking 4:18 28:2 thousand-dollar
29:25 studies 23:6 20:1 51:4,14 term 28:10,13 28:1
31:5,14 study 25:4 talks 44:12 terms 7:4,4 26:7 three 4:2 8:8,10
32:9 subchapter Tallahassee 38:15 46:4 11:7,11 17:18
41:2 37:21 38:15,17 1:16 54:21 56:14 29:6 32:5
47:1,2,7 subject 26:5 tax 3:12,18,24 test 3:16 13:15 35:24 51:21
48:15 submit 54:9 4:5,9 6:1,12 15:25 34:21 58:18
49:6 submitted 58:24 9:11,18 11:6 35:23 40:10,17 threefold 3:13
50:5 59:1 11:11 12:11,12 testimony 50:17 three-quarters
58:5,10 subpart 38:3 12:19,19 13:5 50:22 3:25 12:15
22:16 40:20 16:14,18 17:10 54:10,11 58:22 thwarted 13:22
suggesting 17:18,21,24 58:23 time 5:10 11:7
35:20 18:7,15 19:3 theoretically 17:19 24:23
suit 26:12 21:18,19 23:13 theory 24:12 28:25 30:1
13:2,9 26:10 43:19 29:11,16,16 things 7:2 9:6 timely 43:9
20:12 Supreme 1:1,13 30:1,3,6,13,24 21:7 22:24 title 20:23 21:4
22:7,9 sure 7:15 9:7 31:14,17 32:16 24:12 25:16 told 31:21 48:10
35:25 11:11 14:1 36:3 38:1 27:8,14,18 tomorrow 5:19
37:16 15:5 17:19 39:10 40:24 38:20 41:6 5:20 19:16
44:19 26:16 54:19 41:1,4 46:9,16 45:24 46:2 tort 34:12 40:5
49:18,19 56:19,24 47:17 48:19 47:13 52:20,24
51:22 surely 53:19 49:14,15 50:1 think 6:21 7:23 totally 4:17
survive 16:19 50:5,20 51:18 12:8 13:13 track 22:17,24
56:14,25 suspect 24:12 52:16 53:3 14:11 16:13 24:5
58:2,15 system 3:24 11:5 58:15,21 19:16 20:11 transaction 13:4
T 31:22 49:19 38:13 39:16 transfer 5:3,16
17:21,24 tailored 39:20 taxing 16:15 50:5,21 52:12 10:9,9,20
23:1,6 tailor-made 47:2 52:13,16 53:4 13:18,19 16:10
24:2 40:7 tax-exemption 54:3 56:25 18:6 19:11
46:12,17 take 16:6,12,17 49:11 52:5 thorough 6:9 20:16,22 21:4
19:1 20:6,9 technique 53:23 thoroughly 5:22 21:11 25:15
6:22 10:9 temporal 53:19 29:24 31:3 45:18,24 46:14
talk 41:20 ten-million-do... thousand 24:1 transferred 5:19
21:17 undermine virtually 24:17 wide 35:8 45:13,13,14
31:3 57:21 virtue 24:16,23 willingness 46:10 47:20
9:6,21 52:14 vote 27:22 wish 47:4 49:24,25 53:3
13:11,13 underscores word 5:21 54:4 11:06 1:14 3:2
29:9 W words 8:4 15:19 1127 53:20
24:6 understand 4:8 wage 34:12 32:22 49:17 1127(b) 38:18
27:11,12 8:24 10:18 wait 14:4,4 work 14:6,7 1129 4:20 27:17
35:12 14:1,20,25 19:18 33:6,15 32:17 47:9 35:24 36:2
47:7,8 18:4 20:18 44:1 56:8 37:4 40:24
50:8,9 23:17 35:15 waivers 52:22 worked 5:19 1142(b) 36:24
51:18 38:23 50:8 want 6:16,18,18 works 18:5 22:5 37:8 44:12,24
56:8,16 57:5 6:22 7:7,14 30:3 1145(c)(2) 37:21
understood 9:19 17:13 18:14,23 34:3 45:10 1146(a 57:14
uniform 49:2,4 34:8,9 35:8 44:15 46:6,8
50:20,25 29:10 30:7 1146(c) 3:12 7:4
22:18 31:14 50:10 127 27:14
$500 56:9
unwound 13:5 19:23,24 27:6 0 1954 51:13
1:6 3:4
U.S.C 51:7 41:6 50:7 54:8 1
32:15
45:12
25:2 v 1:6 weight 38:6,13 11 4:1 14:12,21 2008 1:10
20:4,13
35:13 verb 37:1 49:19 29:17 30:22 51:5,22 52:10
victims 34:12 20:1 38:6,7 3
36:13
40:11,16
13:21 25:24 45:15 53:8 38:15
42:7
44:8
4:13 5:7
31:11,13 8
58:8 8 53:24
14:22
9
42:9 43:1 90 46:1
57:10
36:10,11
42:1
55:10
41:21
54:15
41:20
41:15,20,20
41:20
25:7
48:10
51:5
50:8
52:2
34:18
25:8
8:20 34:18
36:25
2:9
45:23
45:24
25:9
4:4 14:13 15:1
21:17
30:22
39:18
43:20
51:22
