IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
PLAINS COMMERCE BANK, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-411
LONG FAMILY LAND AND :
CATTLE COMPANY, INC., :
ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, April 14, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:07 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAUL A. BANKER, ESQ., Minneapolis, Minn.; on behalf
of the Petitioner.
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Respondents.
CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PAUL A. BANKER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 25
CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
Curiae, supporting the Respondents 44
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL A. BANKER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:07 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case No. 07-411, Plains Commerce
Bank versus Long Family Land and Cattle Company.
Mr. Banker.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL A. BANKER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BANKER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Tribes lack inherent sovereign power over
nonmembers. This court in the Montana decision
recognized two narrow exceptions based on the underlying
principles of protecting tribal self-government and
controlling internal relations. Neither of those
exceptions applies here.
The question today is whether the tribal
court possessed adjudicatory jurisdiction to hear the
Longs' discrimination claim against the nonmember bank.
It did not. There was no qualifying consensual
relationship here of the qualifying kind. There was --
adjudication is not another means of regulating
nonmember defendant conduct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We've said that regulation
does include regulation by adjudication for purposes of
-- of Federal pre-emption laws. Why would it -- why
would it be different for -- for Indian law.
MR. BANKER: Well, I think the reason that
it would be different for Indian law is the way that it
bears on the nonmember defendants' rights. The -- if
you look at what Montana was based on and the underlying
principles, I think it is important to recognize that
nonmember defendants in tribal court, finding themselves
there to adjudicate, that is something that I think was
contemplated by the second exception, but not the first
exception.
The reason that I think that is that in
carving out two exceptions --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, I understand, but I'm
just talking about the first one now. You say it is not
-- it is not regulation, right, under the first? And
that's -- that's the only point I'm addressing. Why
should regulation through a process of adjudication not
be considered regulation for purposes of our Indian law
where -- whereas, we have made clear in several cases
that it does constitute regulation for purposes of
Federal pre-emption under statutes that pre-empt state
regulation?
MR. BANKER: I think that it is different in
the tribal-law context because in articulating the --
the first exception when the Court said: Regulate
nonmember conduct through other means, if the Court had
meant to say "adjudication," I think the court could
have articulated that there. And I think it's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We could have said the same
thing about the Congress. Congress just said -- just
said "regulation," and we interpreted that term to
include common-law adjudication.
MR. BANKER: When I look at the -- you know,
at the -- and compare the language in the first Montana
exception of regulation to the language in the
Constitution under the Indian Commerce Clause, I see a
parallel there between saying that, you know, there are
certain types of legislative authority that tribes may
exercise over nonmembers versus exercising the power of
the courts.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, are you saying that
the -- that the regulatory authority could be broader
than the adjudicatory authority?
MR. BANKER: I think that has been well
established: That the regulatory --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you give any example
of that? I mean, I found that rather surprising your
brief. The Montana -- a clear case that Montana talks
about is tax, the imposition of a tax. Well, if a
jurisdiction has authority to tax, then surely it has
authority to sue to collect that tax. So I am not aware
of a case where a State or tribe or nation has authority
to regulate, to legislate, but lacks authority to
enforce that regulation. And if you have an example of
that, I would appreciate being enlightened.
MR. BANKER: Well, I think that there's a
tension between what the Court said in the Strate case,
where it said, presumptively, if there is the power to
regulate, then there is presumptively the power to
adjudicate. That, I believe, was called into question
by the second footnote in the Nevada versus Hicks
decision, which questioned, in my mind, whether or not
there was any adjudicatory power at all. And I think
that is the question that the Court has to determine, is
whether --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was the regulation
that was authorized but unenforceable in the courts? I
don't recall -- Montana -- Hicks having said anything on
that subject.
MR. BANKER: Well, there was a -- the footnote
number 2 in Hicks at least called into question about
whether or not -- you know, I think it's been made clear
by the Court's opinions that -- that adjudicatory
authority is certainly no broader than legislative
authority. The question raised by the second footnote
in the Hicks opinion, in my mind, is whether or not
adjudicatory authority exists at all in the first
exception.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what is a tribe
supposed to do? Let's say there is a gas station on the
reservation. The tribe has a tax. Anybody doing
business -- it's, you know, 1 percent of gross proceeds.
And at the end of the year the gas station owner says,
well, I'm just not going to pay it. What do they do
then?
MR. BANKER: Well, I think that there is a
difference between situations where there is a clear
ability to regulate and where you would move to enforce
that regulation and a situation where you are
adjudicating, you know, separate claims under the common
law of the tribe.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think there
would be -- there would be tribal-court jurisdiction in
the case I hypothesized?
MR. BANKER: I don't think so. I think the
nature of the first exception is a consensual
relationship. And I think if there is going to be an
ability to regulate in the first instance, then the
regulation needs to be clearly consented to.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your case, your
entire case, is based on whether or not there's consent
to dealing with the tribe by the nonmember?
MR. BANKER: Well, I think it goes further
than that. If I could -- you know, in your example of
the taxation, if there was clear consent to be taxed --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Who would consent to be
taxed? I mean the tax is --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's being imposed. But,
say, at the gas station, they don't ask you when you
drive up: Now do you consent to the tax?
MR. BANKER: Well, but by engaging in commerce
on the reservation and by, you know -- and this Court
has addressed it in a number of taxation decisions
regarding Indian law, the -- there is a quid pro quo for
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's different from
consent. You can say I don't consent as loudly as you
like and as often as you like, and you still have to pay
the tax.
MR. BANKER: But that -- you know, in the
taxation context, I think that is the price of doing
business.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but if that kind of
implicit consent applies in the tax context, I don't see
why in theory it doesn't apply in the situation we've
got here.
MR. BANKER: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: If somebody is going to do
business with the tribe, with tribal members, in a way
that affects the tribe on the reservation, it makes just
as much sense to say, well, they implicitly consent not
to discriminate against tribal members because of their
Indian status.
MR. BANKER: I think it is, you know, that
consent under the first Montana exception can't be
implicit. I think it needs to be explicit.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I thought it was
implicit in the tax situation, as you responded to
Justice Ginsburg's question.
MR. BANKER: Well, I think we need to be
specific about the taxation context. You know, I don't
think that any taxation context would carry with it
implicit consent.
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right. Let me take
another example, the other explicit example from
Montana, which mentioned taxing and licensing. Are you
saying that if a -- in any particular activity, say,
running a filling station or advertising oneself as a
certified mechanic in the -- at the filling station on
the reservation, and the tribe says, well, we are going
to license mechanics to make sure they are competent.
Are you saying that there has got to be an explicit
agreement to the licensing in order for the tribe to
enforce its licensing restriction against somebody who
goes to work for that gas station?
MR. BANKER: I mean in that situation, if the
tribe said, here is the licensing that we are going to
impose on you for being a mechanic, and the mechanic
then went to work at that gas station, knowing about
that licensing requirement, I mean, that is -- that is
the sort of actual --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. Then, that's --
that's implicit consent then, isn't it?
MR. BANKER: I think it comes --
JUSTICE SOUTER: He doesn't sign a document
saying "I consent"; he just goes to work. And your
answer says, okay, that's enough to catch him on
licensing. In Justice Ginsburg's example, if they
started doing business, that's enough to catch them on
taxation. And if that is so, why isn't tribal dealing
sufficient in effect to supply an implicit consent not
to discriminate?
MR. BANKER: Well, I don't know that I would
-- I would disagree that -- I would say that those
examples of consent of the licensing of the taxation are
much closer to being actual consent. I'm not saying by
"actual consent" that there needs to be a written
document that says --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't really mean "actual
consent" by "actual consent," right?
(Laughter.)
MR. BANKER: Well, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe you should use a
different term, like "implicit consent," maybe.
(Laughter.)
MR. BANKER: The -- I think that there has to
be a line drawn.
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right. Why draw the line
where you want to draw it? We've got a line in which
the -- I'll put a blank, the "X" consent -- what did we
want -- whatever adjective we want suffices for taxation
and it suffices for licensing. Why doesn't it suffice
for nondiscrimination? Why do we draw the line where
you want it drawn?
MR. BANKER: The reason where we would draw
the line where I want to drawn it is that, you know, the
discrimination claim that was made here ultimately
turned out to be based on tribal common law. It arose
out of this -- the dealings, the contractual dealings,
between the bank and a nonmember corporation. It is
important for a nonmember to know where tribal
jurisdiction attaches or doesn't attach. And it is not
possible to predict when a common law, tribal -- for an
outsider to determine when a tribal common-law
discrimination claim is going to attach as a form of
regulation --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, so one of your answers to
an earlier question suggests the same point that you now
seem to be making, although I don't -- I don't recall it
from your brief. Apparently you think that it would be
different if this antidiscrimination law of the tribe
had been set forth in a tribal ordinance. Is that
right? Would you say your client could have been held
to it if it had been written, rather than simply a -- a
portion of tribal common law?
MR. BANKER: If it had been a tribal
antidiscrimination statute, there would have at least
been the possibility of notice and the possibility of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not what I asked.
That's not what I asked. I asked whether you would
acknowledge that your client could be bound if it had
been written.
MR. BANKER: I think what is required to bind
a nonmember to tribal law is clear consent, and merely
knowing about the tribal antidiscrimination --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that doesn't make any
difference. We shouldn't place any weight on the fact
that this was a common-law regulation, rather than
regulation by a statute or ordinance. You can't have it
both ways. It either makes a difference or it doesn't
make a difference.
MR. BANKER: I -- I think that it does make a
difference.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you just told me it
didn't.
MR. BANKER: I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You just told me that even
if it were written down, you would still need what you
think is express consent.
MR. BANKER: I think that that provides the
clearest guidance for when tribal jurisdiction attaches
or doesn't.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, do you recognize
that the bank was on notice, at least that it was a Federal
requirement that when you deal with individual Indians
or what this loan company was, it was an organization of
Indians -- that's what the Federal law calls it -- there
is a duty of fair dealing? The Federal law requires
that. Isn't that so?
MR. BANKER: That is so, but, you know,
we're not here to, you know -- the Federal courts don't
provide a substantive review on the merits. Another
side to the story about the merits of the
discrimination.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's not -- it's not
uncommon that a State would adopt a Federal standard as
its -- as its own on a question of civil rights. A
State might stay, well, we choose to construe our human
rights law in accord with the Federal -- Federal law?
MR. BANKER: No. That's, that's not
uncommon. But I think it's important to focus on the
background about, out of which this discrimination claim
arose. And, you, know it began in the first instance
with the bank, a nonmember, entering into a contract
with a South Dakota corporation. And the South Dakota
corporation, the Long Family Land and Cattle Company, is
not a tribal member, cannot be --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it is an organization
of Indians?
MR. BANKER: It is closely held by tribal
members. And it is organized for the purpose of
facilitating Bureau of Indian Affairs loan --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can a State distinguish
when it grants a corporation status between non- Indian
and Indian corporations.
MR. BANKER: I don't believe so.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you incorporate under
tribal law.
MR. BANKER: You cannot incorporate under
tribal law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wasn't part of the
transaction the obtaining of back-up liability on the
part of the individual Indians who, who owned the
corporation? Didn't they guarantee the loan?
MR. BANKER: You have to be specific about
the loan guarantees and the contracts that we are
talking about. Before 1996, before the loan contracts
that are at issue here, there were lending relationships
and loan guarantees that were made. And after 1996,
when additional loans were made, there were personal
guarantees that were made. There was no attempt ever to
enforce those personal guarantees, but they were part of
the record.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but it does give the
whole thing a decided flavor of dealing with, with
Indians on the reservation. You're dealing with a
corporation that, that's majority owned or entirely
owned. Is it majority or entirely?
MR. BANKER: I believe it is certainly 51
percent.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. BANKER: There is a question about
whether it's more.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And then you get guarantees
from, on reservation Indians. It smells like dealing
with Indians on the reservation to me. Of course, this
certainty that you're -- that you're asking, your client
could have obtained that certainly by inserting a choice
of law provision providing that any disputes would be
resolved somewhere else, couldn't it?
MR. BANKER: There is no question that this
whole question would have been avoided had there been a
choice of forum selection that placed the dispute
resolution squarely in South Dakota courts. In the
absence of that, in the silence of that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: In the absence of that, why
should we bend over backwards to give something that has
the smell of dealing with the Indians any other name?
Your clients can fully protect themselves by a choice of
forum provision.
MR. BANKER: I think that in the face of
silence in the contract, the general rule controls
rather than its exceptions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, your clients
could they fully protect themselves. What if the tribe
sought to enforce tribal law against them, can they
bring that claim in State court?
MR. BANKER: If the tribe or if the tribal
members sought to enforce that?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. Well, just
like this and there was a choice of forum provision,
says, well, you've got to bring this in State court. I
thought there were restrictions on whether or not tribal
law can be enforced in State courts.
MR. BANKER: Well, I think it's the question
of who the plaintiff is if the Long Family Land and
Cattle Company, the South Dakota corporation, had had a
contract with the bank that said your forum for dispute
resolution is South Dakota courts, and the Long Family
Land and Cattle Company had commenced an action in South
Dakota courts, I think the dispute could have been
resolved there.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even if it -- well,
that's if it's a contract claim. What if it's a
discrimination or Indian common law claim arising out of
the contractual relationship?
MR. BANKER: That's a more difficult
question. You know, there was -- it isn't part of the
question presented, but there was a dispute in the
underlying tribal court about the nature of the
discrimination claim, whether it rose under Federal law
or what was its underlying basis. That was resolved in
favor of it being a tribal law claim.
As I understand the tribal court of appeals'
explanation of that on an underlying basis that there is
little difference between the tribal law claim and the
underlying Federal discrimination law.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it a contract claim?
MR. BANKER: Is it a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it a contract claim?
Was -- was -- was the claim a claim for discrimination
in contracting so that it was part of the contract
claim.
MR. BANKER: No. I believe that the
discrimination --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a freestanding tort
action, is that what it was?
MR. BANKER: It is a freestanding tort
action.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would the -- would the
jurisdiction issue be any different if it were a
contract claim? Supposing your client -- they had
brought suit against your client claiming a breach of
contract, would there have been tribal court
jurisdiction?
MR. BANKER: Well, we have to look at, you
know, who were the contracting parties. The contracting
parties were the bank on the one hand and the Long
Family Land and Cattle Company on the other. So the
individual tribal members I don't believe would have had
a breach of contract.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, we would assume that
the corporation had a breach of contract claim, could
they have sued in tribal court?
MR. BANKER: I don't think that the Long
Family and Cattle Company appropriately was a plaintiff
in tribal court to sue on breach of contract.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did they --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The question isn't whether
that was an appropriate plaintiff. Do you think the
tribal court would have had jurisdiction of such a
contract claim?
MR. BANKER: I don't think so without some
sort of consent to hearing that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that the
bank -- I thought that the Long Company was a plaintiff
in the tribal court?
MR. BANKER: The Long Company was a
plaintiff in the tribal court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And as I understand it,
the Long Company asserted, along with the individuals,
contract claims?
MR. BANKER: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the Long Company did
not make a tort claim?
MR. BANKER: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So why isn't this
judgment, even if you're right about the individuals in
the tort claim, why isn't this judgment good at least as
to the contract claim, which are not challenging and
which runs to the benefit of the Long Company which has
nothing to do with the tort claim that you are
challenging?
MR. BANKER: Because of the way that the
case was tried. If you look at the general verdict form
at page 192 -- 191 and 192 in the joint appendix, you'll
see that the jury -- the tribal court jury was asked
interrogatories about liability: Liability for
contract, liability for discrimination.
When they got to question 6 on page 192, the
question was asked of the jury if you answered "yes" to
question four for the other liability questions, four
being the discrimination claim, then award damages. And
so the jury awarded $750,000 of undifferentiated
damages. Whether it was for contract, whether it was
for tort is not for us to now second-guess. There was a
general award of damages. And the jury was instructed
that they could award damages for breach -- for
discrimination.
So, you know, that is a feature of how the
case was tried. It is a feature of the way that the
jury returned its verdict. And at this point it's
impossible to know -- the $750,000 that was ultimately
awarded was far less than what the Longs were asking for
for breach of contract, and they didn't say they were
not asking for damages for discrimination in the
tribal -- in the tribal court.
So for this Court to say now that there was
no jurisdiction over the discrimination claim would
basically invalidate that underlying judgment.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Banker, you several
times have raised a point which seems to me to go to the
nature of the first exception in Montana on an issue we
haven't discussed yet, and I want to get clear on it.
You have emphasized consistently through your argument
the need for consent whether we call it actual,
explicit, some kind of consent to at least the
regulatory jurisdiction upon which a judicial
jurisdiction is premised. And my understanding is that
that's not what -- I don't have Montana in front of me,
but my understanding is that that is not what Montana,
in effect said with respect to the -- to the first
exception. As I recall what the court said in Montana
it was that there may be situations in which a nonmember
enters into a consensual relationship with the tribe or
tribal members, and as a result of that consensual
relationship, it then would be appropriate to recognize
jurisdiction, for example, to tax regulatory
jurisdiction.
My understanding is that the consent that
Montana was talking about was not a consent to the
specific jurisdiction whether it be regulatory or
adjudicatory, but rather consent to some kind of, or a
consent forming some kind of a relationship that would
make it appropriate for the tribe to assert regulatory
jurisdiction. So that the consent does not have to
relate to jurisdiction as such. Am I -- if that is
correct, then your argument for consent seems to me to
miss the point. But maybe I'm missing the point of --
of Montana. What is your response to that?
MR. BANKER: Well, what Montana said, the
actual language of Montana said a tribe may regulate
through taxation, licensing or other means the
activities of nonmembers who enter consensual
relationships with the tribe or its members, through
commercial dealings, contracts, leases or other
arrangements.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the consensual
relationship is what you just said, contracts, leases or
other commercial. So the consent is to the commercial
relationship.
MR. BANKER: Well, I mean, my interpretation
of that is -- I mean, Montana in its first exception
meant that the consent was in the consensual
relationship, then any business dealings with the tribe
or its members would result in tribal ability to
regulate, and that hasn't been the case, as this Court
has, you know, decided --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the point of my
question was do you agree that there -- within the --
the description of the exception in Montana, that there
need not be a consent, either to the regulation or to an
adjudicatory jurisdiction to enforce the regulation?
MR. BANKER: Not in the actual language of
Montana, but in reading Strate and in reading Hicks and
in reading Atkinson Trading Company, that is my
interpretation of the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So you're saying the
Montana exception has been modified by later cases.
MR. BANKER: That is correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Certainly not in Strate,
which you quoted before as saying if you have
jurisdiction to regulate, then have you jurisdiction to
enforce the regulation.
MR. BANKER: True, but I think Strate is an
important part of that history.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I thought that your
argument was that the general principle that was adopted
in Montana is the tribal jurisdiction extends only to
those things that are necessary to protect tribal
self-government or to control internal relations, and
that merely entering into consensual commercial
transactions doesn't fall within that, but if one were
to consent to the jurisdiction of the tribal courts,
then that would be an additional basis for jurisdiction.
I thought that was what your argument was.
MR. BANKER: I believe that's correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But if that's your argument
what's left of the first exception?
MR. BANKER: Well, what's left of the first
exception is certainly a tribal ability to regulate, and
perhaps that's all.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So the first -- but as I
understand it the first exception would have no
independent application unless the second exception were
met -- were satisfied, i.e., there was a tribal need
based on self-government, economic self-protection and
so on which, which would in effect validate the tribe's
attempt to regulate, which seems in effect to say that
everything turns on the second exception, not the first.
MR. BANKER: Well, I think the first
exception could still have meaning, in the sense that it
grants the tribe the ability to regulate. The question
really is how far does that ability go and how far does
it stretch. I don't think that it stretches to
adjudication, and I further don't think it stretches to
adjudication of nonconsensual tort claims.
If there are no further questions I'd like
to reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Mr. Frederick.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. FREDERICK: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
I'd like to address both standing and the
merits, but because there are some additional wrinkles
on the standing question in light of how it was briefed
in the reply brief, I'd like to make three brief points
on the merits before addressing standing.
First, the bank engaged in a seven-year
business relationship with the Longs, knowing that they
were Indians and deriving substantial commercial
benefits from the Longs' tribal status through the BIA
loan guarantees. Second, the bank has not challenged
tribal court jurisdiction over the breach of contract
claim or the bad faith claim, which are the core claims
in the case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, they said they
don't need to because they said if they win on their
claim, then their whole case --
MR. FREDERICK: And I'll address that,
Justice Ginsburg, on the general verdict point, which is
there is actually some law of this which I would like to
describe for the Court my understanding of. My third
point, though, is that both the district court and the
Eighth Circuit below found significant that the bank had
conceded tribal court jurisdiction in its motion for
summary judgment on its counterclaim, and they found
that concession to be important to note, and both courts
below found the Indian character of the Long family
company to be notable as well. Under this Court's two
court rule, those fact findings are entitled to
significant respect.
Now, as to the standing question Justice
Ginsburg, let me get to your point on the general
verdict. This is ultimately a question of tribal
procedural law, how the tribal court would treat
vacature of a claim deemed to be an invalid claim.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where do I look that
up in tribal law?
MR. FREDERICK: Mr. Chief Justice, under
tribal law number 1, the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe has
adopted the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure for
procedure in the tribal courts, and under Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure 49, there are provisions for special
verdicts and general verdicts, and Rule 49(a)(3)
provides that if no specific objection is made to a fact
or finding requested by the jury, it is waived. The
bank here did not make a specific objection to the
general interrogatory number 6, therefore, they may be
deemed to have waived their objection to having the
damages collected.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry; I don't
understand. I'm looking at joint appendix 191 to 192.
You have special interrogatories, including number 6 but
also number 4 and then they have damages. And it's not
clear whether those damages are based on the finding of
liability under 4 or 6.
MR. FREDERICK: That's my point, Mr. Chief
Justice. In the trial transcript which is contained at
roughly pages 555 through 562 of the tribal court
record, there was colloquy on how these special
interrogatories were to be framed. The bank objected to
number 4, the discrimination count on the ground that a
company cannot be discriminated against, only
individuals can be discriminated against. That
objection was sustained, and so special interrogatory 4
was written as you see it in the joint appendix. The
bank did not object to the general verdict question on
damages, so the law on Rule 49(a)(3) would be that
special verdict is deemed to be waived, and now there is
some --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There is no objection --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait. They are, they are
not objecting to a -- to a general verdict. They are
objecting to the fact that in their view, one of the
elements of that -- of that general verdict is based
upon what they assert is an invalid claim in the -- in
the Indian court.
MR. FREDERICK: Precisely so, Justice
Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know that they
waive that when they when -- when they allow a general
verdict to go.
MR. FREDERICK: The way cases say general
verdicts should be deemed, if there is an invalid claim,
there are competing views about what to do with that
when the damages awarded is treated as a general
verdict. There is a circuit split on the question of
what you do when there has not been a specific objection
preserved and there is a general verdict and one invalid
claim and evidence that supports a valid claim.
Now recall, they don't challenge the breach
of contract claim. Our brief points out how the
evidence supports damages for breach of contract. Now
Judge Kozinski in the Ninth Circuit in a case called
McCord v. Maguire 83 F 2d 1271 says that this waiver
rule means that their ability to challenge the general
verdict would be waived and they would be forced to live
with the verdict if evidence supports it. Under that
rule --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If evidence supports any
one of the claims contained in the general rule.
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. That's
correct. The First Circuit in a case called Gillespie
versus Sears Roebuck, 386 F3d 21 takes the position that
if you have not filed your objection you have not waived
it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Who wrote that? You
gave us the benefit of the author of the Ninth Circuit,
but not the First.
MR. FREDERICK: Chief Judge -- I was about
to say that. They are both very fine opinions; they --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're not asking us to
resolve that circuit split in this case.
MR. FREDERICK: No. What I'm saying is that
the tribal court, which would be looking to Federal law
to resolve the effect of a supposed tainted claim -- if
you were to conclude that a discrimination complaint is
a tainted claim -- would have to evaluate what effect
that has on the final judgment. And because there is a
circuit conflict on that question, unfortunately, I
cannot give you a definitive answer as to how the tribal
court would resolve that.
My point, though, is that if this Court
concludes that there is a redressibility problem in this
case, which we would submit, respectfully, there is, the
appropriate course would be to vacate and remand for the
lower courts to certify the question to the tribal court
of appeals or to make some further inquiry into the law
to determine how --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The tribal court of appeals
would have to be finding Federal law. It wouldn't be
Indian law; it would be Federal law.
MR. FREDERICK: It is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You say they have adopted
the Federal rules. So whatever the Federal law -- in
other words, we would ask them to answer the question
that you don't want us to answer.
MR. FREDERICK: No. I've asked you to go
with the Ninth Circuit Court because that is what I
think is the court rule. But, Justice Scalia, any time
a different jurisdiction incorporates some law into its
own system, it is opining as a matter of Cheyenne River
Sioux Tribe law. And, as Cohen's Indian law treatise
points out, tribal courts would not look not only to
Federal sources but also to State courts, too. The rule
in South Dakota follows the general verdict rule in
which --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And, presumably,
tribal -- whatever tribal precedent there may be, as
well.
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct although we
have not been able to find precedent --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, neither could
-- and neither could anybody, right? I mean if anybody
could find it, you could. It's because it's not
published anywhere, right?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, there are published
decisions. This Court -- this is a question of first
impression.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Certainly, your reliance
upon the Federal rules doesn't impress me as much as it
did when you first told me about it, because apparently
the Federal rules mean whatever the tribal courts say
they mean; is that right?
MR. FREDERICK: No. I think, Justice
Scalia, the Court would look at the various sources of
law --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And come to its own
decision as to what they mean.
MR. FREDERICK: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One of the points
you mentioned earlier is that this is an Indian
corporation, and that's a concept I don't understand.
If Justices Scalia and Alito form a corporation, is that
an Italian corporation?
(Laughter.)
MR. FREDERICK: I would like to beg the
indulgence of the Court in not answering that question
specifically.
(Laughter.)
MR. FREDERICK: My point --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And do we get special loan
guarantees?
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand the
concept of a minority-owned or an Indian-owned
corporation, but the point here is you are trying to say
that the corporation is a member of the tribe. And I
just don't know. And I certainly don't think the State,
when it incorporated this entity, said: You're a
different type of corporation than every other; you're
an Indian corporation.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, to the contrary,
Mr. Chief Justice. There is a State supreme court case
on point called Pourier, which we cited in our brief,
which says that a majority-owned corporation under South
Dakota State law shall be treated as a member of that
tribe for the tax purposes that were at issue in that
case. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How would a normal
-- I guess a non-Indian or non-Italian or non-Irish --
corporation dealing with the Long Family Land and Cattle
Company know that it was an Indian corporation --
MR. FREDERICK: Well, I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- putting apart the
particulars in this case?
MR. FREDERICK: Mr. Chief Justice, let me
step back and say I'm not here to advocate that there
can be different racial characteristics of corporations.
What is anomalous about this case and the way the BIA
has set up this program is that the BIA establishes
principles of Indian identity so that it can determine
whether it satisfies congressional mandates for Indian
financing.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know the BIA
says that. But if you're a bank and somebody comes in
and says: I'm a corporation; I would like a loan, is
the bank supposed to start asking questions about
whether there are Indian shareholders, and how many, and
all of that?
MR. FREDERICK: Banks typically do require
lots of documentation, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So they should have
a check box on their loan application that says: Are
you an Indian?
MR. FREDERICK: The difference here,
Mr. Chief Justice, is that the bank required BIA loan
guarantees as a condition of making the loans.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm asking you
about: In a general case, let's say they don't require
BIA loan guarantees. They require, just as in this
case, collateral.
MR. FREDERICK: They did not. They required
more, and that's the important point. The facts
actually matter.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I am sure the
facts here matter. I have a hypothetical question. A
bank dealing with an Indian-owned corporation, how are
they supposed to find out, or may they find out, whether
it's an Indian-owned corporation, particularly when
under your approach, when they do form that contract,
they are subjecting themselves to tribal-court
jurisdiction?
MR. FREDERICK: I would acknowledge that
when there are no BIA loan guarantees required, a bank
may or may not know of the identity of the owners of the
corporation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And do they subject
themselves to tribal-court jurisdiction because they are
dealing with, as you call it, an Indian corporation?
MR. FREDERICK: Without further facts, no.
Here, though, the bank required the BIA loan. It went
on to the reservation to scrutinize the collateral. It
required personal guarantees from the tribal members.
It got collateral in guarantees on the personal effects
and chattels.
It knew that the corporation was doing all
of its business on tribal trust lands. It went into the
tribal headquarters to determine that the tribe was
comfortable with the various loan arrangements. It
enlisted the assistance of tribal financial officers to
ensure that the cash flow would be a sufficient --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that if the bank
had two -- two different types of loans, in one
situation the corporation comes to the bank. It is an
Indian corporation, if there is such a thing; and the
bank deals with it, although it doesn't know that. In
the other situation are the facts, as you suggest here;
and the -- dealing through the normal, collateral
consequences and operations of a contract with a bank,
they want to know the collateral, and all of that, that
constitutes consent, but a commercial relationship with
a member does not.
MR. FREDERICK: I think, in general,
Mr. Chief Justice, I would agree with that hypothetical.
But here, if you took away the BIA loan piece, I think
the facts very strongly point to the bank knowing it was
engaging in a consensual relationship with Indians
because it went on tribal trust lands. It involves the
officers of the tribe for effectuating the loan.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there are many facts
here that are favorable to your position, but I would
appreciate it if you could articulate the rule of law
that you would like us to adopt in this case, the
general principle that you would like -- the general
rule that you would like us to adopt.
MR. FREDERICK: Justice Alito I don't think
I can improve on the language that's in Montana in its
first exception, itself, which is that there are
consensual relations that are licensing of commercial --
JUSTICE ALITO: Can that be the case: Any
consensual relationship between a member of the tribe
and a nonmember is subject to the jurisdiction of the
tribal courts?
MR. FREDERICK: No. I think that the Strate
case imposed a nexus requirement. I think the liability
has to arise out of that consensual relationship, which
it clearly does here.
JUSTICE ALITO: So an Indian goes to a bank
off the reservation and asks for a loan and gets the
loan. That contract is subject to the jurisdiction of
the tribal courts?
MR. FREDERICK: No. I don't think
necessarily any loan. I think I answered Mr. Chief
Justice's question to the effect that any kind of
general loan of that nature would not necessarily give
rise to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it has to be a known
-- a known consensual relationship, for one thing.
Wouldn't you add that requirement.
MR. FREDERICK: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. So the Indian
goes to the bank and says: I'm an Indian. Give me a
loan. The bank gives him a loan. That's subject to the
jurisdiction of the tribal courts?
MR. FREDERICK: No. I think, Justice Alito,
that there are very fine gradations in the facts. And
we are not asking for an articulation of a general rule
of the kind of sweeping effect that the Petitioners are
asking for.
We are asking for a straightforward
application of Montana 1 on facts here that developed
over a substantial number of years.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, isn't it necessary for
there to be some kind of clear notice? Somebody puts an
ad in the newspaper to sell a used car. Someone shows
up to purchase the used car. He purchases the used car
and says: And, by the way, I'm an Indian. That is
subject to the jurisdiction of the tribal courts?
MR. FREDERICK: I don't think that
necessarily would give rise to the kind of consensual
relationship that Montana was speaking about.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why not? What's
missing there?
MR. FREDERICK: I think what's missing is
the longevity of a relationship, the degree to which the
cause of action arose out of the answering of that ad.
I mean one of the features of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's an odd sort of
basis on which to predicate jurisdiction. We usually --
when you're dealing with jurisdiction, we usually look
for a bright-line rule.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, I think that the
necessary concomitant of having tribes with their
elements of sovereignty residing within States and
within the United States is to have somewhat less
bright-line features to some of these jurisdictional
principles. Our submission here is that the facts --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You said earlier --
I am sorry. You said earlier that this was a
straightforward application of Montana?
MR. FREDERICK: Given the facts that are
present in this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, given the
facts. But isn't it true that this would be the first
case in which we have asserted or allowed Indian tribal
jurisdiction to be asserted over a nonmember?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, it would although the
court in National Farmers and in Iowa Mutual could have
disposed of the case simply on a bright-line-rule basis
but rejected that very notion.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you think it's inherent
in Montana exception number 1, that an Indian tribal
court in the course of adjudicating commercial dealings
has the capacity to elaborate common law?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes. And -- and I don't
think --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: To elaborate tribal
common law.
MR. FREDERICK: That's how I understood your
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Tribal common law?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes, that's how I understood
Justice Kennedy's question. You know, and it is the
same --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you think that's
necessary for regulating consensual relationships?
MR. FREDERICK: I think that, yes, it can
be. I mean the -- I thought I heard the Petitioner
acknowledge today that if the discrimination rule had
been written down, that that would be perfectly fine to
put everybody on notice. These principles of
discrimination here are --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He backed off on that. I
pressed the point and --
(Laughter.)
MR. FREDERICK: Well, my -- my mission here
is that the bank did not avail itself of any of the
procedures in Rule 12 to clarify the source of the law,
to move to dismiss the discrimination claim, to move for
summary judgment on the discrimination claim.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about -- what
about their point that, under our system, governing is
based on the consent of the governed, and in this case
the bank has no role to play in the nature or
establishment of the court to which they are being
subjected?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, in this particular
case, Your Honor, this bank has availed itself
purposefully of tribal courts on at least 14 occasions.
This would be the 15th case. These are set out in the
tribe's brief, the amicus brief, footnotes 27, 28, and
29.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, and I suppose --
MR. FREDERICK: This is not a stranger to
the tribal court, Mr. Chief Justice.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose it were the
first occasion? I mean, what's the rule? That doesn't
help me.
MR. FREDERICK: My point is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In other words, if you go
-- if you make a mistake 14 times, you're bound to 15?
That's kind of an estoppel.
MR. FREDERICK: No, I'm saying that the
availment of the tribal court is what creates the
jurisdiction. I'm saying it responds to the point that
the bank can hardly claim surprise. They know how to
deal with tribal law and tribal procedures. They could
have asked the nonmember judge who presided over this
trial to clarify how the discrimination would be done.
In the tribal transcript, the colloquy on discrimination
was rather straightforward as to treating members in a
fair way as compared to treating nonmembers. These are
not difficult concepts in the law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Frederick, before you
finish, I would like for to you give your best answer to
a lurking, underlying concern, and that is the the Chief
Justice brought up the outsider subjected to courts
where the outsider has no vote. That happens when you
sued in a State that's not your own, but there is the
right to remove and also at the end of the line is this
Court. And I think in the case of the tribal courts,
neither of those exist. There's no -- you can't remove
to a State or Federal court, and this Court has no
review authority over a tribal court's judgment.
MR. FREDERICK: I have two suggested
responses to that, Justice Ginsburg. One is that, when
a tribal court judgment needs to be enforced, it can be
brought in State court, and South Dakota follows the
comity rule, which means that it has to satisfy certain
requirements of fairness, adherence to basic principles,
and the law before a State -- the State court will
enforce the tribal court judgment. Under national --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not the same faith and
credit that it would give to a sister State judgment?
MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. It's not
full faith and credit; it's comity. And that comity
provides for a substantive review while enforcing the
judgment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what if the
tribal law has certain cultural principles such as
fairness and equity of a sort that aren't recognized
under Federal or State law in this type of contractual
relationship? Does that preclude the State court from
giving comity or not?
MR. FREDERICK: The way the South Dakota
statute is worded, Mr. Chief Justice, unfortunately, I
can't give you a direct answer to that because it
involves a panoply of issues whether State law deems the
final judgment ultimately to be a fair one and -- and,
importantly, when this Court recognized the
jurisdictional point as giving rise to Federal
jurisdiction in National Farmers, I would submit it also
perhaps created the avenue for the enforcement of
judgments to be brought in Federal court as well. I
don't understand why a jurisdictional challenge and a
challenge to the enforcement of a judgment could not
give rise to the same Federal question jurisdiction
recognized in National Farmers.
So I think there are two avenues to be in
State or Federal court when enforcing a judgment in
tribal court that heretofore for have not fully been
explored, certainly not by any decisions of this Court.
If the Court has no further questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Frederick.
Mr. Gannon.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CURTIS E. GANNON
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
MR. GANNON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the court:
This court's Montana framework confirms that
Indian tribes can, in some circumstances, exercise
legitimate authority over nonmembers and nonmember land
on their reservations. Unlike what has happened in the
criminal context, the political branches have not acted
to divest tribes generally of civil jurisdiction over
nonmembers. Both before and after Montana was decided,
Congress and this Court have repeatedly articulated the
firm Federal policy of encouraging tribal
self-government and have recognized that tribal justice
systems are an essential part of tribal governments.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that may be; it
depends on what you mean by "tribal." I mean, it
certainly would be rational to say that all disputes
between members of the tribe can be resolved
authoritatively by the tribal court, but it's quite a
different thing to say that a dispute between a
nonmember of the tribe and a member of the tribe can go
to the tribal court. It's sort of the analogue to being
home fried in a foreign State. It's -- is pretty close.
MR. GANNON: Well, Justice Scalia, that's of
course true, that there is a difference, but the Montana
framework recognizes that the political branches have
not completely divested tribes of their jurisdiction
over nonmembers in circumstances like this. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you agree with
your friend Mr. Frederick that Montana did not address
jurisdiction over a nonmember and that this would be the
first case in which we'd recognize such jurisdiction?
MR. GANNON: Well, it did not specifically
address any previous cases involving jurisdiction over a
nonmember defendant who is hailed into Federal court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Defendant, yes.
MR. GANNON: But I think it is -- it is the
case that it clearly recognized a consensual
relationship that is established before the lawsuit
begins is what provides for regulatory jurisdiction in
some of the cases and adjudicatory jurisdiction, as is
now clear from Strate and the Court's subsequent
decisions.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In your view, does
jurisdiction follow all regulatory authority? If it's
within regulatory authority, then is it your position
that there is necessarily jurisdiction to enforce in a
tribal court --
MR. GANNON: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- in civil cases?
MR. GANNON: Well, in Iowa Mutual, this
Court did state that tribal courts are best qualified to
interpret and apply tribal law. And so --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In your position, is
regulatory jurisdiction concomitant with civil judicial
jurisdiction in the tribal court?
MR. GANNON: Generally, yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What happens if the
bank deals with a corporation that is not an Indian
corporation, and then that -- the shareholders of that
corporation sell their shares to Indians?
MR. GANNON: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does the bank now
have a consensual relationship with an Indian
corporation?
MR. GANNON: Well, I think, Mr. Chief
Justice, to expand upon the discussion that you were
having with Mr. Frederick, that the consensual
relationship that's necessary to establish jurisdiction
in the sense of Montana's first exception requires not
only that there be a consensual relationship with a
member, and which we do think that implicit in that is
some knowledge at least objective knowledge that you
knew you were dealing with a tribal member. And so if
the conceptual relationship were established and with
somebody who was not a nonmember who subsequently ended
up through sales of shares to become a member, we don't
think that that ex post facto development would effect
the establishment of the original relationship.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You would add on the
reservation? I mean --
MR. GANNON: Yes, absolutely, Justice
Scalia. That is something --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If he walks into some town
in South Dakota, the mere fact that you know he's an
Indian -- it has to be on the reservation.
MR. GANNON: Absolutely, Justice Scalia, and
that follows directly from the terms in Montana itself
because Montana says that the exceptions are are about
instances of, quote, "civil jurisdiction over
non-Indians on the reservation." And that's an
important factor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the only
reason -- the only reason the bank is on the reservation
is because the land was collateral, right?
MR. GANNON: The only reason --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They didn't want to
buy land on a reservation; they wanted to make a loan
and get the interest or whatever, and it just turned out
that the Indians defaulted, and therefore they were left
with a land on a reservation. Is that consensual?
MR. GANNON: Well, everything about this
transaction is related to the reservation. To be sure,
part of it dealt with the land on the reservation, but
the rest of the ranch's operations, including places
where the bank possessed collateral and security
interest in personal property, were on tribal grazing
land.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if it's a
different -- the Indian -- the corporation is owned by
members on the reservation, the collateral they put up
is off the reservation, is there consensual dealings
with the corporation then?
MR. GANNON: Well, the thing that's key
here, I believe, is that the subject of the contract was
intimately connected with the reservation itself, and
that's why it comes within Montana's discussion of civil
jurisdiction.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but the subject
of the contract is loan to a corporation owned by
Indians on the reservation. The collateral put up is
other land that the corporation owns or the individuals
own off the reservation. Jurisdiction or not.
MR. GANNON: Without any further facts, no,
I don't think that would be enough to establish
jurisdiction. What's important here is that the subject
of the contract was actually on the reservation, and
that's why it comes in --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess, what I
meant, what do you mean by the subject of the contract?
MR. GANNON: Well, the loan here was for
specific purposes. It was for -- I mean, there were a
lot of specific terms in which the bank dictated lots of
practices on the ranch, and it knew everything about the
way the operation was being conducted or required
express approval for individual purchases and things
like that. And so, this is not an instance where a
member is engaging in business off the reservation.
And indeed in Blaze Construction the court
addressed a case in which there was a member-owned
corporation that was doing business on a different
reservation, and the parties conceded there that that
would not be considered to be a member for purposes of
Montana -- that was actually a taxation case, but it
would not be considered a member for purposes of these
exceptions.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Am I correct that the
collateral here, the land, the land that was collateral
was within the reservation but it was not Indian land.
MR. GANNON: Well, that's generally correct,
Justice Scalia. There is a little bit of a dispute in
the probate proceedings about exactly the status of the
land. But, yes, this transaction did involve transfer
of the deed to the bank, and therefore, at that point it
would have been -- to the extent that that transfer was
effective, it would have been a nonmember only on the
reservation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you think that that's
enough. It doesn't have to -- when you say "on the
reservation," you include as on the reservation land
that is no longer owned by Indians but -- but is within
the reservation boundaries.
MR. GANNON: The thing that triggers the
regulation here or the jurisdictional authority of the
tribe is the consensual relationship with the tribal
member. And so it's -- it's -- it's not -- this
isn't -- this isn't like a tort that occurred on a
particular piece of land while we are asking --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, wait. You say that
consensual relationship is not enough. If you enter
into relationship with Indian in South Dakota on, you
know -- in the State capital, that isn't enough. It has
to be on the reservation. You acknowledge that. And
for purposes of on the reservation, it's enough that
you're dealing with land that is within the reservation
even -- even if it is no longer Indian land?
MR. GANNON: Yes, Justice Scalia. And the
Montana exception to deal with jurisdiction --
JUSTICE ALITO: Does "on the land" mean --
"on the reservation" mean land on the reservation or
does it extend any further than that?
MR. GANNON: I -- I -- I can't say --
JUSTICE ALITO: Let's say an Indian gets an
auto loan for a vehicle to be used in a business on the
reservation. Is that on the reservation?
MR. GANNON: In general, the sale of goods
off the reservation, unless there is some particularly
intimate connection with the reservation that -- that
the parties anticipate at the time, probably isn't going
to be enough to trigger jurisdiction. And so --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about a home
equity loan for home on the reservation.
MR. GANNON: For a home that's on the
reservation?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. GANNON: And it's for remodeling the
home --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Whatever home equity
loans are for.
MR. GANNON: Yes. I think that that's -- if
it were going to be used for something completely off
the reservation, then maybe an argument could be made
that it doesn't have enough to do with regulating
activities that are occurring on the reservation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they are going
to add -- add a new wing onto the -- new room on to
their home.
MR. GANNON: And that's an example where I
do think that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if Chase
Manhattan gets a home equity loan application from
somebody and they grant the home equity loan, they are
now subject to being sued in tribal court?
MR. GANNON: If they know that they are
dealing with a member and they have not included any
form selection or choice of law provisions that say that
they want to be sued and resolve disputes in some other
forum, then it may well be the case that they will be
sued in tribal court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the tribal
court has a rule that forum selection provisions are not
enforceable?
MR. GANNON: Well, I think it's probably
unlikely that the tribal courts would -- or that the
tribe would adopt a rule like that, because as a
pragmatic matter it would make it more difficult for
their citizens to engage in business relationships if
they had a categorical ban like that. And so --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then could you go
into Federal court under what was in farmers and say we
had no jurisdiction because we had a forum selection
clause?
MR. GANNON: I -- if -- if there was a forum
that would be a question about the nature of the
underlyng consent. And I do think that, in general,
forum selection clauses here ought to be enforced. And
so, it would be relevant to the scope of the consentual
relationship there.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does the judgment
here that the bank discriminated against the Indian
corporation because they didn't give them as favorable
terms as they gave someone who hadn't defaulted on a
loan impede dealings with Indian corporations by outside
members -- outside nonmembers?
MR. GANNON: Well, as was pointed out
earlier, Mr. Chief Justice, the -- the -- the only
duties that the bank was exposed to here were a duty not
to breach contracts and not to discriminate. And the
only question is the source of those duties.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What was the basis
for the finding of discrimination?
MR. GANNON: It was the -- under --
according to the jury instruction it was a person or
entity denied a privilege to a person based solely upon
that person's race or tribal identity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It had nothing to
do -- the bank's justification had nothing to do with
the fact that the entity had defaulted earlier?
MR. GANNON: No, I don't believe so, Your
Honor. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Banker, you have two minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL A. BANKER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BANKER: I think when you step back in
listening to the arguments of opposing counsel, you
know, what is the other way that tribal courts get --
that the tribes get jurisdiction over nonmembers? Well,
Congress can provide it. And if we look at this Bureau
of Indian Affairs loan guaranty program, which Congress
authorized, Congress didn't provide jurisdiction over
nonmembers in implementation of that program.
So you've got an elaborate loan program and
it's designed to provide capital to tribes and tribal
members, and Congress is silent on that.
Now, in other instances Congress has
provided authorization for tribal courts and tribes to
have jurisdiction over nonmembers. Congress is aware of
this Court's opinion in Montana presumably and the cases
that follow from it, but in the Bureau of Indian Affairs
loan guaranty program Congress remained silent. What do
we infer from that?
I think it is crucial when you think about
nonmember defendants in tribal court and whether they
can have their rights adjudicated there to think about
the structural problems, the lack of a right to remove,
the lack of a right to have this Court provide a
substantive review. There is no --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What general principle
underscores the validity of your point that it's -- is
it a republican form of government law, Due Process
Clause? What is the general principle you rely on to
say we have to look to the structure of these courts?
If the structure is insufficient, then it violates what
prohibition in the Constitution?
MR. BANKER: I think that the -- you know,
the tribal courts stand outside of the Federal -- of the
Federal-State relationship. I think it is a question of
due process. I think it is a question of equal
protection.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Due process for whom? The
tribal courts aren't governed -- aren't creatures that
are subject to the Due Process Clause.
MR. BANKER: Well, that's exactly the point.
I mean it is the due process right of the nonmember.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What is -- what is the
constitutional prohibition that is a restriction on
assigning cases to a court that does not follow the Due
Process Clause if it's an Indian court? It's not the
same as if we assign this to the American Arbitration
Association. What's the difference?
MR. BANKER: I think the difference is the
constitutional protections of nonmembers do not apply
down to tribal courts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:08 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
24:24 6:24 7:3 22:15 27:23 28:12 assert 22:17 background
29:17 23:20 46:17 application 25:3 28:22 14:14
57:19 adopted 24:11 applies 3:16 9:1 assign 57:11 back-up 15:9
advertising 9:25 57:14 assistance 36:7 ban 54:4
Affairs 14:24 37:4 Association 12:2 13:21
35:15 36:21 46:5 19:17 22:9,17 Atkinson 23:23 26:20 27:18
51:24 agreement 10:5 30:22 attach 12:4,7 28:7,13 34:12
39:8 32:20 37:2,8 approval 50:12 attempt 15:18 36:11,13,16,23
38:12,20 39:4 Arbitration author 30:4 41:9,16,20
allowed 40:2 2:2,10 3:3,7 authority 5:14 50:9 51:5
22:24 American 57:11 21:22 22:20 5:18,19 6:1,2,3 54:16,23
amicus 1:23 2:8 24:11,19,21 6:4,25 7:1,3 Banker 1:17 2:3
anomalous 34:6 arguments authorization 6:7,21 7:12,21
25:25 30:17 31:7,8 arising 17:22 authorized 6:18 9:11,17 10:8
46:6,10 answered 20:23 14:15 39:8 auto 52:10 11:13,22 12:18
answering 32:24 23:4 36:6 availed 41:20 13:17 14:2,12
answers 12:9 articulated 5:4 avenue 44:10 15:12 16:1,4
anybody 7:7 articulation 21:4,5 19:12,20,25
apart 34:1 asked 12:21,22 21:11 29:7 21:18 22:23
40:10 12:12 32:8 31:9 42:15 a.m 1:15 3:2 24:20,23 25:9
4:18 30:24 31:1 21:11,13 30:8 56:22 57:5,13
25:14,15
11:25 25:5 briefed 26:1 29:4 46:10,17 47:14,17 48:19 13:1 21:21
41:15 bright-line 47:1 56:5 57:9 48:23 49:10,20 28:1 38:21
39:13,18 cash 36:8 50:5 52:17,21 46:18
39:11 broader 5:18 14:18 17:14,17 57:16 client 12:15,23
55:1 6:25 19:6,13 33:23 choice 16:10,15 16:9 18:24,25
2:4,6,8,12 business 7:8 24:24 32:6 30:4,9,16 Cohen's 31:14
25:21 8:24 9:6 10:21 33:10 44:19 31:10 collateral 35:3
55:15 23:12 26:5 45:18 circumstances 35:24 36:1,15
16:1 52:10 54:3 certified 10:1 cited 33:16 49:7,12,22
19:7 buy 48:24 certify 30:23 citizens 54:3 50:24,24
49:16 challenge 29:12 civil 14:9 27:12 collect 6:2
C 29:17 44:12,13 27:14 45:10 collected 27:21
call 21:23 35:21 20:12,15 claim 3:19 11:24 come 32:14
35:2 capacity 40:11 Chase 53:11 18:13,13,15,24 comfortable
36:22 capital 51:23 chattels 36:2 19:10,19 20:7 36:6
6:8 7:20 8:1,2 17:20 25:18,22 30:14 41:11,12 3:4 5:12 8:13
23:14 26:11,14 28:3 30:3,6 claiming 18:25 23:3,7,7 24:15
34:2,6 35:1,3 34:1,3,11,18 29:22 common 7:16
39:24 40:2,6 35:7,19 36:9 42:16 17:22 40:11,15
26:9 41:15,20,22 36:21 37:25 clause 5:12 54:8 40:18
54:24 43:3 46:8,14 39:10,20,25 56:18 57:4,10 common-law
14:18 47:15,19,22 26:9 29:13,14 5:1,2,3 6:8,15 curiae 1:23 2:9
19:6 49:2,13 51:16 35:12 36:16 8:14 17:4,9 45:1
51:21 37:22 49:16,21 18:2,6 19:1,11 CURTIS 1:21
consent 8:2,6,7 50:3,6 19:14,18,24 2:7 44:24
26:25 8:12,19,19 9:1 contracting 20:1,19 21:14
33:24 9:8,12,20 18:14 19:4,4 21:15 22:5 D
23:11,19 24:17 control 24:14 33:15 40:5,10 51:22
54:11 controls 16:24 43:3,5,5,9,10 21:2,4,5,13
consentual corporation 44:7,11,17,18 28:14 29:7,14
50:19,21 33:8,9,12,13 53:14,20,22 dealing 8:3
47:6 constitutes 36:11,12 47:10 14:3 16:16 35:9,21 36:15
55:20,21 50:15 correct 20:5,8 42:24 43:3 47:10
56:1,2,4 construe 14:10 22:20 24:2,20 47:3 53:25 dealt 49:5
contained 28:4 29:23,24 31:22 55:18 56:3,19 decided 15:22
contemplated 51:1 court's 6:24 decision 3:12
8:23 9:1,18,19 count 28:8 56:5 32:4 44:19
22:7,8 contract 14:16 26:22 creates 42:11 deed 51:5
16:24 17:15,21 course 16:8 creatures 57:3 deemed 27:7,20
36:24 18:10,12,14,24 30:22 40:10 credit 43:16,18 28:15 29:5
19:1,8,10,14 46:1 criminal 45:9 deems 44:5
39:2 19:19 20:4,12 court 1:1,14 crucial 56:9 defaulted 49:1
55:9 18:13,17 20:21 effect 10:23 22:4 entitled 27:1 exist 43:4
21:16 28:8 30:14 38:1,15 55:5,9 expand 47:18
41:11,12 42:16 effective 51:7 equity 43:23 18:7
dismiss 41:11 either 13:7 essential 45:15 express 13:16
disputes 16:11 39:16 establishes 34:7
30:25 14:25 encouraging estoppel 42:9 face 16:23
36:5 district 26:19 45:13 ET 1:8 facilitating
document 10:17 10:6 15:19 evidence 29:11 28:20 48:11
34:18 46:23 exactly 51:3 factor 48:18
34:22 doing 7:7 8:23 enforceable 57:5 facts 35:5,8,22
57:12,13 10:21 36:3 53:23 example 5:22 36:14,23 37:2
8:18 draw 11:15,16 43:9 54:12 10:20 22:10 39:23 40:1
12:13 11:20,22 enforcement 53:9 49:25
31:12 drawn 11:14,21 44:10,13 examples 11:2 fair 13:25 42:19
34:5 11:23 enforcing 43:19 exception 4:10 44:6
45:21 drive 8:12 44:17 4:11 5:1,11 7:4 fairness 43:12
50:17 due 56:17,25 engage 54:3 7:22 9:12 43:23
54:2 duties 54:23,25 engaging 8:13 23:10,18 24:1 43:15,18
54:24 E enter 23:1 51:21 exceptions 3:13 33:23
54:16 3:1 44:24 24:15 16:25 48:15 25:12
11:24 32:18 39:20,21 entire 8:2 exercise 5:15 44:9,15 54:6
14:6,14 54:22 55:9 entirely 15:24 45:6 favor 18:5
18:3,9 economic 25:5 15:25 exercising 5:15 favorable 37:3
43:10 48:14 44:18 Ginsburg's 9:16 hailed 46:11
forced 29:18 49:25 52:7 38:2,9 39:2 47:9
foreign 45:24 F3d 29:25 42:22 43:16 headquarters
27:12 form 12:7 20:17 44:4,14 54:17 36:5
30:11 32:20 35:12 G given 39:23,25 hear 3:3,18
53:17 56:17 G 3:1 gives 38:10 heard 40:25
43:5,24 forming 22:16 Gannon 1:21 giving 44:1,8 hearing 19:21
forth 12:14 2:7 44:23,24 go 21:19 25:12 held 12:15 14:22
46:11 forum 16:15,22 45:3,25 46:9 29:3 31:9 42:7 help 42:5
56:23 17:8,15 53:19 46:13,25 47:2 45:22 54:5 heretofore
54:12 48:8,13,22 37:20 38:9 Hicks 6:12,19
Frederick 1:19 gas 7:6,9 8:11 57:3 Honor 41:20
28:1 25:22 26:15 general 1:22 government human 14:10
55:2 27:10 28:3,24 16:24 20:17 56:17 hypothesized
31:22 32:3,11 27:19 28:13,19 gradations 35:8 36:21
5:1,10 7:3 35:15,22 36:20 36:20 37:6,6 25:11 35:17 55:6
9:12 37:8,16,24 38:2,14 52:12 grazing 49:8 impede 54:19
21:20 38:7,12 39:1,6 54:11 56:15,18 gross 7:8 implementation
23:10 39:14,23 40:4 generally 45:10 ground 28:8 55:23
25:1 40:12,16,19,24 47:8 51:1 guarantee 15:11 implicit 9:1,13
26:4 41:8,19 42:1,6 Gillespie 29:24 guarantees 9:15,20 10:15
30:5 42:10,21 43:7 Ginsburg 5:22 15:13,16,18,19 10:23 11:11
37:10 43:17 44:2,22 6:17 8:7,10,18 16:6 26:8 33:4 47:23
42:4 46:8 46:6 47:19 13:20 14:7,20 34:24 35:2,16 implicitly 9:8
freestanding 19:15,22 20:2 35:25 36:1 important 4:7
57:9 full 43:18 42:21 43:8,15 importantly
individuals 20:3 7:5,18 8:1,7,10 53:21 54:5,15
indulgence 27:23 28:12 10:17,20 11:6 57:2,7,16
inquiry 30:24 26:22 30:15 15:8,21 16:3,6
14:15 50:13 44:6,13,17 18:18,22 19:9 15:4 40:8,18
56:2 judgments 20:2,6,9 21:18 42:3,7 46:20
instruction 55:4 judicial 21:25 24:3,4,10,21 57:2,7
56:20 jurisdiction 26:12,16 27:3 40:20
49:8 12:4 13:18 28:4,17,18,24 kind 3:21 8:25
8:16 9:10 24:14 21:16,25 22:1 31:1,5,11,19 38:1,15,21
15:1,2 interpret 47:4 22:10,11,14,18 31:24 32:6,11 39:2 42:9
26:24 interpretation 22:19 23:20 32:14,17 33:3 knew 36:3 47:25
31:3,14 23:9,24 24:6,6,12,17 33:6,15,21 50:10
33:13,24 interpreted 5:7 24:18 26:9,21 34:1,3,11,18 know 5:9,13
interrogatories 31:12 35:14,20 34:19,23,25 6:23 7:8,16 8:5
36:12 20:20 27:24 37:14,22 38:11 35:7,19 36:9 8:14,22 9:11
38:8,9 28:7 38:25 39:11,12 36:21 37:2,8 9:18 10:25
40:2,9 interrogatory 40:3 42:12 37:12,20 38:4 11:23 12:3
47:10,15 27:19 28:11 44:9,14 45:10 38:8,12,20 14:2,3,15
49:11 intimate 52:14 46:3,7,8,10,16 39:4,10,20,25 17:25 19:4
51:22 intimately 49:17 46:17,21,23 40:8,14,18,20 21:7,10 23:15
54:16 invalid 27:7 47:6,7,20 40:22 41:5,13 29:1 33:10,24
55:21 28:22 29:5,10 48:16 49:19,24 41:25 42:2,3,7 34:11 35:17
57:10 invalidate 21:17 50:2 52:4,16 42:21,24 43:8 36:13,17 40:20
14:21 involves 36:25 56:4 44:21 45:3,14 51:23 53:15
16:7 44:5 jurisdictional 45:16,25 46:5 55:18 56:22
26:6 involving 46:10 39:18 44:8,12 46:12,20 47:1 knowing 10:11
47:12 Iowa 40:5 47:2 51:15 47:5,9,14,18 13:2 26:5
51:12 issue 15:15 jury 20:19,19,23 48:6,8,10,13 36:23
35:9,11 33:19 55:4 49:20 50:5,23 47:24,24
52:9 lot 50:9 23:13 35:25
17:13,17 28:2 37:17 lower 30:23 56:1 name 16:20
33:23 license 10:3 lurking 42:23 member-owned narrow 3:13
48:21,24 licensing 9:23 50:16 nation 6:3
10:5,6,9,12,20 M mentioned 9:23 national 40:5
11:2,19 22:25 Maguire 29:16 32:18 43:14 44:9,15
37:11 majority 15:24 mere 48:11 nature 7:22 18:2
light 26:1 15:25 merely 13:1 21:20 38:2
22:24 listening 55:17 making 12:11 25:25 26:3 37:25 38:2
37:9 little 18:8 51:2 34:24 met 25:4 39:2 46:23
32:22 loan 13:23 14:24 Manhattan Minn 1:17 38:20 39:15
41:7 15:11,13,14,16 53:12 Minneapolis 40:23 47:20
8:16 34:13,20,23 31:13 35:6,8 minority-owned 21:23 23:19
12:5,13 35:2,16,23 54:2 57:19 33:7 25:4 26:13
13:1,24 36:6,22 37:1 McCord 29:16 minutes 55:13 needs 7:25 9:13
14:11,11 37:21,22,25 mean 5:23 8:8 missing 22:21 11:4 43:9
16:11 38:2,10,10 10:8,12 11:6 39:5,6 neither 3:15
48:24 49:21 23:9,10 31:25 mission 41:8 31:24,25 43:4
50:7 52:10,18 32:9,10,15 mistake 42:8 Nevada 6:12
27:6,9 53:12,13 54:19 39:9 40:25 modified 24:1 new 53:7,7
28:14 55:21,24 56:7 42:4 45:17,17 Monday 1:11 newspaper
31:2 loans 15:17 48:7 50:6,8 Montana 3:12 38:22
34:24 36:10 52:5,6 57:6 4:6 5:10,24,24 nexus 37:17
32:13 52:25 meaning 25:10 6:19 9:12,23 Ninth 29:15
37:4 Long 1:6 3:5 means 3:22 5:2 21:20 22:2,3,5 30:4 31:10
14:18 17:13,16 22:25 29:17 22:13,22,23,24 non 15:1
42:14,20 19:5,12,23,25 43:11 23:10,18,22 nonconsensual
20:3,6,13 meant 5:3 23:11 24:1,12 37:9 25:15
47:4 26:24 33:23 50:6 38:18 39:3,22 nondiscrimin...
56:17 longer 51:12 mechanic 10:1 40:9 45:5,11 11:20
look 4:6 5:9 19:3 37:13 45:22 47:21 49:18 22:6 37:14
48:2 officers 36:7 41:19 51:19 policy 45:13 probably 52:15
56:10 37:1 particularly political 45:9 53:24
Oh 12:9 35:11 52:13 46:2 probate 51:3
5:15 23:1 24:3 parties 19:4,5 position 29:25 problems 56:12
45:7,11 oneself 9:25 50:18 52:15 37:3 46:22 procedural 27:6
54:20 operation 50:11 PAUL 1:17 2:3 47:5 procedure 27:12
56:4 operations 2:11 3:7 55:14 possessed 3:18 27:13,14
36:16 49:6 pay 7:10 8:20 49:7 procedures
opinion 7:2 56:5 perfectly 41:2 12:20 proceedings
30:7 personal 15:17 post 48:4 proceeds 7:8
25:20 44:24 person's 55:6 6:9,10,14 57:4,6,10
ordinance 12:14 1:18 2:4,12 3:8 pragmatic 54:2 55:21,23,24
38:21 organized 14:23 piece 36:22 preclude 43:25 property 49:8
original 48:5 51:19 predicate 39:11 protect 16:21
27:11,19 56:23 places 49:6 present 39:24 protection 57:1
28:8 outsider 12:6 Plains 1:3 3:4 presented 18:1 protections
40:9 42:24,25 plaintiff 17:13 preserved 29:10 57:14
21:9,19 22:21 pretty 45:24 46:16
28:11 P 3:1 26:16,19 27:4 pre-empt 4:22 provision 16:11
29:9 page 2:2 20:18 28:3 30:19 pre-emption 4:1 16:22 17:8
20:22 33:2,8,16 35:5 4:22 provisions 27:14
33:19 25:12 17:23 22:7,9 48:7,12,17,20 48:21 56:12,13
reason 4:3,12 22:16 23:6,8 48:24 49:2,4,5 57:6
11:22 48:20,20 23:12 26:5 49:12,13,17,22 rights 4:5 14:9
REBUTTAL 37:18 38:5 50:18,25 51:8 rise 38:3 39:2
29:12 47:22 48:1,5 52:11,11,13,14 31:13
recognized 3:13 15:15 23:2 45:8 27:8,22 30:3
7:1 45:14 46:14 relevant 54:13 residing 39:16 33:6,21 34:1
12:10 recognizes 46:2 reliance 32:6 resolution 16:16 34:11,19,25
16:4,13 record 15:20 rely 56:18 17:16 35:7,19 36:9
17:12,25 28:6 remainder resolve 30:9,12 39:10,20,25
19:16 redressibility 25:17 30:18 53:18 41:13 43:21
30:20 remained 56:7 resolved 16:12 44:21 46:5
25:11 regarding 8:16 remaining 55:13 17:19 18:4 47:9,14 48:19
27:3,5 regulate 5:1 6:4 remand 30:22 45:19 48:23 49:10,20
29:8 6:10 7:14,24 remodeling respect 22:4 50:5 52:17,21
31:7 22:24 23:14 52:22 27:2 52:24 53:6,11
35:8 24:6,24 25:7 remove 43:2,4 respectfully 53:21 54:15
40:20 25:11 56:12 30:21 55:1,7,12
54:10,25 regulating 3:22 repeatedly responded 9:15 57:16
40:23 53:4 45:12 Respondents Roebuck 29:25
34:14 4:19,21,23 5:7 56:17 responds 42:12 rose 18:3
5:11 6:5,17 requested 27:17 response 22:22 roughly 28:5
21:25 requirement 17:10 39:13 41:1,10
10:4,18 41:22 South 14:17,17 stay 14:10 36:8
23:25 seven-year 26:4 16:16 17:14,16 step 34:4 55:16 suggest 36:14
30:10 shareholders 17:17 31:17 STEVENS suggested 43:7
34:15 47:11 33:17 43:10 18:22 19:9,16 suggests 12:10
17:9 48:3 51:22 straightforward summary 26:22
33:17 shows 38:22 sovereign 3:11 38:17 39:22 41:12
side 14:5 sovereignty 42:18 supply 10:23
48:15 sign 10:17 39:16 stranger 42:1 supporting 1:24
11:6,10 26:20 27:2 special 27:14,24 24:4,8 37:16 supports 29:11
13:3 silence 16:17,24 28:6,11,15 46:18 29:14,19,21
14:25 silent 56:1,7 33:3 stretch 25:13 suppose 41:25
16:3,6 simply 12:16 specific 9:18 stretches 25:13 42:3
18:10,12 40:6 15:12 22:14 25:14 supposed 7:6
28:18,25 Sioux 27:11 27:16,18 29:9 strongly 36:23 30:12 34:14
31:1,5 31:14 50:8,9 structural 56:12 35:10
32:6,12 sister 43:16 specifically structure 56:19 Supposing
33:3 situation 7:15 32:25 46:9 56:20 18:24
41:5 9:2,15 10:8 split 29:8 30:9 subject 6:20 supreme 1:1,14
46:12 36:11,14 squarely 16:16 35:19 37:14,22 33:15
situations 7:13 stand 56:23 38:10,25 49:16 sure 10:3 35:7
51:2,9 22:6 standard 14:8 49:20 50:2,6 49:4
52:3 smell 16:20 standing 25:24 53:14 57:4 surely 6:1
25:3,8 26:8 10:6 34:12 14:8,10,25 39:19 system 31:13
53:13 31:16 33:10,15 44:9 systems 45:15
28:12 39:21 43:24,25 44:5 subsequent T 2:1,1
54:7 39:10 43:23 47:3 51:23 subsequently take 9:21
45:23 States 1:1,14,23 48:2 takes 29:25
24:14 source 41:10 44:25 38:19 15:14 22:13
45:14 54:25 station 7:6,9 substantive 14:4 talks 5:24
8:8,12,21 56:24,25 57:13 28:5 30:11,17 turns 25:8 validity 56:16
22:10 third 26:18 30:23 31:1,15 two 3:13 4:13 various 32:12
thought 9:14 31:20,20 32:9 26:25 36:10,10 36:6
9:18,19 24:10,19 40:25 36:25 37:15,23 55:13 verdict 20:17
11:2,18 three 26:2 38:11,25 40:2 type 33:12 43:24 21:9 26:16
50:20 time 25:17 31:11 40:9,14,18 types 5:14 36:10 27:5 28:13,15
54:18 tort 18:18,20 46:24 47:3,4,7 44:6 versus 3:5 5:15
55:11,12 21:3 25:15 51:16 53:14,20 14:13 view 28:20
51:18 53:21,25 55:6 underlying 3:13 46:20
38:5 transaction 15:9 57:15 underlyng 54:11 vote 42:25
49:15 49:4 51:4 tribal-court underscores
transactions 7:19 35:13,20 56:16 W
transcript 28:4 tribe 6:3 7:5,7 18:6 20:2 25:2 waive 29:2
5:3,4,20 transfer 51:4,6 10:2,5,9 12:13 33:6 44:12 28:15 29:18
7:12 treat 27:6 17:2,5 22:7,17 understanding 30:1
treated 29:7 22:24 23:2,12 22:1,3,12 waiver 29:16
9:11,13 33:18 25:11 27:11 26:18 walks 48:10
10:16 treating 42:18 31:14 33:9,19 understood want 11:16,18
12:12,25 42:19 36:5 37:1,13 40:16,19 11:18,21,23
treatise 31:14 45:19,22,22 undifferentiat... 21:21 31:8
16:23 trial 28:4 42:16 51:16 54:1 21:1 36:17 48:23
19:12 tribal 3:14,17 tribes 3:11 5:14 unenforceable 53:18
24:8 4:8 9:6,9 10:22 39:15 45:6,10 6:18 wanted 48:24
11:25 12:3,5,6 46:3 55:19,25 unfortunately Washington
32:11 12:14,17,18 56:3 30:16 44:3 1:10,19,22
36:20,22 13:1,2,18 tribe's 25:6 United 1:1,14,23 Wasn't 15:8
14:19,22 15:5 41:23 2:8 39:17 way 4:4 9:6
38:12 15:7 17:3,5,10 tried 20:17 21:8 44:25 20:16 21:8
40:8 18:2,5,6,8 19:1 trigger 52:16 use 11:10 29:4 34:6
19:7,11,14,18 triggers 51:14 usually 39:11,12 38:24 42:19
44:16 19:24 20:1,19 true 24:8 40:1 44:2 50:11
47:17,23 21:14,14 22:8 46:1 V 55:18
50:1 51:9 23:13 24:12,13 trust 36:4,25 v 1:5 29:16 ways 13:7
24:17,24 25:4 trying 33:8 vacate 30:22 weight 13:4
55:16 26:7,9,21 27:5 turned 11:25 vacature 27:7 went 10:11
27:6,9,11,13 48:25 valid 29:11 35:23 36:4,25
21 29:25
3 2:4
13:15 4
41:2 4 27:25 28:2,8
2:9
2:12
6 20:22 27:19,24
1:5 3:4 28:2
8
7:8 27:11 83 29:16
40:9
1:15 3:2
57:18
41:10
29:16
1:11 41:21
42:8
41:22
20:18 27:23
20:18,18,22
15:14,16
