IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
LUIS E. MELENDEZ-DIAZ, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-591
MASSACHUSETTS. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 10, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ., Stanford, Cal.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
MARTHA COAKLEY, ESQ., Attorney General, Boston, Mass.;
on behalf of the Respondent.
LISA H. SCHERTLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington,
D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MARTHA COAKLEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
LISA H. SCHERTLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondent 48
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:00 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 07-591, Melendez-Diaz v. Massachusetts.
Mr. Fisher.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In Crawford v. Washington, this Court made
clear that the right to confrontation, at its core, is a
protection against a system of trial by affidavit. It
is an ancient procedural guarantee that requires the
prosecution to prove its case through live witnesses who
testify before the jury and who are subject to
cross-examination.
Introducing forensic laboratory reports,
such as the certificates at issue in this case, is the
modern equivalent of trial by affidavit. The documents
are sworn formal statements. They are crafted
purposefully for the express purpose of proving a fact
that is an element of a criminal offense, and, as the
State forthrightly admits in its brief, they are
introduced in lieu of having the analyst called as a
witness to the stand. They are therefore
quintessentially testimonial evidence.
Massachusetts --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You say -- you say
"the analyst." I suppose it doesn't have to be the
analyst but whoever they decide to call. So if you had
a supervisor who runs the cocaine testing lab and he is
the one whose report is submitted, I take it he is the
one who would have to show up.
MR. FISHER: That's right. Our position --
our position is that whoever the Commonwealth wants to
use to prove the fact that they are trying to prove is
the person that needs to take the stand. In this case,
it would be the analyst.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but you would ask --
if a supervisor did it, what would you ask the
supervisor? You'd say, you know, did you -- did you do
this? Can you testify to your own knowledge that this
is what the analysis showed? And he would have to say,
no, it was one of my subordinates who did it, but I can
tell you he was a very reliable person. How would that
-- I don't understand how that would work.
MR. FISHER: I took the Chief Justice's
hypothetical to be that the supervisor had actually done
the testing, but if the supervisor had not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. No. No. No,
I'm saying that he would testify, I guess: I run the
lab, these are the people I hire, they know you how to
do these tests, and this guy did the test. And since he
was the one that the Government decided to -- on whose
affidavit they decided to rely, that's the only person
you could get.
Now, you could -- to impeach him, you say,
well, did you do the test? No. But you say, well --
but I mean you don't have a right to an analyst at a
particular level.
MR. FISHER: That's right. There is no
substantive right. I think everything you've said is
right as far as it goes. It just depends what the
Commonwealth wants to put in in terms of evidence.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose --
MR. FISHER: If they want to put in --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the tests were by
John Smith, assistant lab technician, and you call John
Smith, and you say, "Is this your signature?" "Yes."
"Do you remember doing this test?" And he says, "I do
thousands of tests. I don't remember. I'll tell you
the way I always do them." I mean, is that what you
want?
MR. FISHER: Well, if that's what -- at a
minimum, that's what we want, Justice Kennedy. This
Court has made clear in California --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's what you're
usually going to get, isn't it?
MR. FISHER: Well, we don't know what we are
going to get. In some cases, unquestionably --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you know what you're
going to get by looking, number one, at the States which
allow this, where this happens all the time. You know
what you're going to get in the States where the
defendant -- where the defense can subpoena the witness.
Now, if there are new tests, complex DNA
tests and so forth, I suppose there is a lot to ask
about. Standard blood alcohol, not much to ask about.
MR. FISHER: But even in a test where the
analyst doesn't remember and, as you put it, it's a
standardized test, there are still plenty of questions
the defendant might want to ask, such as what test was
performed? We don't even know from the record what test
was performed in this case. What's the error rate on
that test? How do your protocols work? What are your
experience and credentials in analyzing those? There's
plenty of questions the defendant might ask.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You can raise all those
questions from the fact of the -- from the document.
Tell the jury, "This doesn't show what tests were
performed." It's there on the document.
MR. FISHER: Well, I think that's a choice
that defense counsel could make, as the defense counsel
always has a choice in a criminal case to decide whether
to press the prosecution's evidence or to simply stay
silent and then later argue at closing the prosecution
hasn't given you enough to prove the case.
But to the extent the Commonwealth is taking
the position that cross-examining would be fruitless in
a situation like this, the very basis of this Court's
Crawford decision is that's not for courts to decide.
It is up to the defense counsel to -- if he wishes, to
insist on live testimony that he can cross-examine and
then --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, then why -- why
isn't it an adequate substitute to say that, if the
defendant wants this testimony, the defendant can call
the analyst and cross-examine the analyst as an adverse
witness?
MR. FISHER: Well, three reasons, Justice
Ginsburg: First, if that were correct, then I don't see
anything that would stop the prosecution in every
criminal case simply from putting a pile of affidavits
on a judge's desk and saying it's up to the defense to
call whatever witnesses he wants and cross-examine them.
But even as a matter of text and structure
of the Constitution, as a textual matter, the right to
confrontation is a passive right in the defendant's
hands. It requires the prosecution to arrange for the
confrontation, and that's bolstered structurally by the
Compulsory Process Clause. Remember, the Compulsory
Process Clause gives the defendant the very right that
you just explained, that the defendant can subpoena
witnesses into court and ask them questions. And surely
the Confrontation Clause adds something on top of that.
And I think this Court's decision in Taylor
against Illinois is the best explanation of the
difference between the two clauses. This Court said
that the Confrontation Clause arises simply by the
nature of adversary proceedings, and it's a -- it's a
rule that governs the way the prosecution must introduce
its case. As I said at the opening here, it's a
requirement that the prosecution put its live witnesses
on the stand for the jury to observe them. The defense,
of course, has the decision whether to cross-examine
those witnesses, or if witnesses are not called by the
prosecution that he would wish to be part of the case,
he can subpoena them. But we would vigorously oppose
any attempt to shift the burden on the defense to call
witnesses like this.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you would say that
what they call the notice-and-demand type statute, that
that's all right?
MR. FISHER: There is a variety of
notice-and-demand type statutes, Justice Ginsburg, and I
think the law professors' brief lays it out the best of
what we have before you. We agree with the Solicitor
General that a plain notice-and-demand statute that
requires the defense to do nothing more than assert his
right in advance of trial to have the prosecution put a
live witness on the stand would be constitutional, I
think, under this Court's jurisprudence. Under the
Compulsory Process Clause, under the jury right, there
are plenty of constitutional rights that, with fair
notice, a Defendant can be required to assert in advance
of trial.
Now, there are other types of statutes that
other States call "notice and demand" that require
something more of the defendant, whether it be that the
defendant himself call the witness, whether it be the
defendant himself make some kind of good faith or prima
facie showing in order to have the prosecution call the
witness. Those types of statutes, I think this Court,
to the extent in this opinion it would mention
notice-and-demand statutes, it would want to be careful
to leave for another day, because, again, we would agree
with the Solicitor General that those would raise more
difficult constitutional questions.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In your answer, you said,
well, there would be this stack of affidavits and that's
all the State would have to do. I think, Mr. Fisher,
that was not quite responsive because the question here
is whether or not there is an exception for business
records. Nobody is talking about affidavits, witnesses,
and so forth. We are talking about business records
done in the ordinary course.
It's true that it -- that the core principle
is whether that confrontation is required, but the
question is whether or not business records should be
treated as something that are not testimony because they
are done based on other protocols with other procedures
where there is substantial insulation from the facts of
the particular case because it's a routine scientific
exercise.
So I think your answer, I would agree, is
responsive based on your theory of the case, but as a
matter of practice and as a matter of the issue that's
before the Court, I don't think it addresses it.
MR. FISHER: Okay. Thank you.
I -- I took Justice Ginsburg's question to
be asking whether giving the defendant the right to
subpoena the witness would be adequate under the
Confrontation Clause if these documents were
testimonial.
Now, your question is whether they might not
be testimonial at all viewed through the lens of whether
they are a business record.
So, as a historical matter, I think it's
plain that no documents prepared in contemplation of
litigation were ever considered to be business records.
And this Court's decision in Palmer v. Hoffman in 1943 I
think lays that out very, very clearly.
So there is no historical argument that
business records would fit -- would be exempted from the
testimonial rule as a class. And, of course, this Court
said in Crawford v. Washington that even if a State
under a modern hearsay exception, whether it be a
business-record rule or in the State of Massachusetts's
case a special, brand-new hearsay rule -- just because
that might be okay in the run-of-the-mill cases doesn't
exempt it from the right to confrontation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but the railroad
case was an accident report. This is a scientific
analysis.
MR. FISHER: Well, I think that is best
characterized, with all due respect, as an argument for
its reliability. And it may well be that judges and
juries think that certain scientific processes yield
more reliable results in terms of reports and testimony
and assertions. But we think, again -- and this Court's
decision in Crawford says quite strongly -- that a judge
cannot decide just on the basis of reliability to exempt
a given record or a class of records from the
Confrontation Clause.
And I think, Justice Kennedy, another
analogy that makes it even more clear is police reports.
Police reports, just like the lab report in this case,
are -- are sworn documents created by public servants
who are sworn to tell the truth, sworn to find evidence
whether it exonerates, whether it incriminates, and to
write up a report. And I don't think anyone has ever
suggested that police reports describing a crime scene
-- for example, no matter how objective the facts
relayed, such as there is a blood stain on the carpet,
there is -- the door was wide open when I got there --
those kinds of assertions would be exempted from the
Confrontation Clause.
It may well be that they are likely to be
correct, that they are assertions of fact that can be
verified, but we've never understood that to fall
outside of the ambit of the Confrontation Clause.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But if you had what we can
call an independent lab, that certainly-- you certainly
can distinguish that from a police report. It's a
line-drawing question, I'll admit, but I think it's
easily distinguished.
MR. FISHER: Well, I think if you had -- in
contrast to this case, if you had a laboratory that was
a private lab being used by the police, that would raise
the question whether police agents who are private
individuals but -- but asked by the police to create
something like this, would generate testimonial evidence
just as well. And I think the answer would be yes.
In fact, in Davis this Court already
addressed the situation, although it reserved in the
footnote, but it assumed that the 911 operator in that
case, who was a private individual working for a private
company hired by the -- by the police --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Fisher, how many States
do things the way -- the way you would have them done?
I mean, how many States don't have these -- these notice
laws, but in fact bring in the analyst to -- to give the
information?
MR. FISHER: Well, let me give you a few
categories, Justice Scalia.
There are six States, it is our
understanding, including big populous States like
California, Illinois and Georgia, that have no special
hearsay law whatsoever, that bring in witnesses if
defendants demand it.
There is another category of States --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, they bring in
witnesses if -- if defendants demand, but --
MR. FISHER: I'm sorry, I misspoke. I
misspoke. That in the ordinary course need to bring in
witnesses. Now, that was --getting ahead to my next --
my next category, there are at least nine or ten other
States that have the kind of bland notice-and-demand
regime that I was discussing with Justice Ginsburg. And
so that's another category.
And then you have -- since Crawford there is
another, I believe, five additional States where their
State supreme courts have held that Crawford applies to
lab reports like this. So at least for the past couple
of years they have been doing it the way that we would
urge.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I wonder -- and correct me
if I'm wrong -- if you -- if you didn't state your case
strongly enough with reference to California. I thought
California followed the rule that you advocate here.
MR. FISHER: That's what I meant to say if I
didn't say it that way. Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there anything else? I
-- I think you're quite right that -- that, look, I
can't find anything in the history that suggest lab
reports would be admitted because they would be
considered being prepared for trial. But business
records are kept out.
So we have here a source that's unlikely to
be particularly biased, the University of Massachusetts
labs. And we have the checks of the discipline, the
scientific discipline. On the other hand, it's being
prepared for this trial.
So it seems to me some things go one way;
some things go the other way. I don't know exactly what
the predominant things are. That's what I'd like you to
address as much as possible.
And when I look at the definition of
"business records hearsay exception" today, it seems to
me that the "hearsay exception" does cover today some of
the things under "business records" that would be
prepared particularly for trial. You could have a
company that goes and measures lines on the street, or
tread marks, or a variety of things. And I guess they
come in under the "business records exception." Do
they? I mean, is that right?
MR. FISHER: They might, Justice Breyer, and
I'd -- I'd be willing to assume for purposes of argument
that they would. But to the extent that they would be
offered by the prosecution in a criminal case, the fact
that they were a business record would not answer the
confrontation question as to whether --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, of course, it
wouldn't.
MR. FISHER: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And that's why -- and maybe
you have nothing else you want to say on this point.
It's the same as Justice Kennedy raised.
MR. FISHER: I think I do, Justice --
JUSTICE BREYER: It seems like there are
some things going one way, and some things going the
other on the issue of whether to call it "testimonial."
MR. FISHER: But I do want to -- with all
respect, I did want to add something to what you said
about the rigors of the lab or of science. It may well
be that those add to the truth, the reliability of
reports. Let me say two things about that.
First of all, the Confrontation Clause
doesn't exempt bishops and nuns, or -- or anyone who we
know or who we would think just as well would obviously
be telling the truth. It's, again, for the defendant to
decide and not for the court to decide whether
cross-examination would be useful.
But let me add to that, Justice Breyer, that
the Innocence Project brief in this case and plenty of
other sources widely available I think very, very, very
persuasively explain that lab reports are not quite as
reliable as we might want to think they are, and not --
JUSTICE BREYER: There have been bad
instances. You are absolutely right.
MR. FISHER: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: But what -- what I'm trying
to work out in my mind is not necessarily what happened
in the year 1084. I'd -- I'd be quite interested in
your views on what's a workable rule. And when I look
across the country on this, it seems most States have
worked with a rule that has allowed the defendant to
call the witness if he wants. There is not a particular
unfairness to that. If he can get ahold of the witness,
no problem. But they said: We are not going to make
the State do this because it's a waste of time, for the
most part. It just delays the trial, and there is
really nothing at issue.
MR. FISHER: Well, to the extent that is the
prominent practice, it's one that grew up under this
Court's Roberts jurisprudence.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's true.
MR. FISHER: I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: But if I assume -- I'm
really uncertain as to whether it has covered
"testimonial" or not. And also, I'm not enamored
particularly of seeing on a close question what happened
in ancient history.
MR. FISHER: I understand.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, is there
anything else you want to add to me on those
assumptions?
MR. FISHER: Yes, that -- that, again, it is
-- it is not for the court; it's for the defendant to
decide. We think the definition of "testimonial"
generally speaking ought to be that when a document is
prepared in contemplation of prosecution, or more
specifically in this case to prove a fact that is an
element of a criminal case, because that's what these
reports say, then they should fall under the
Confrontation Clause.
And to the extent that these are in some
realms and in some places reliable pieces of evidence,
there is every reason to believe it's not going to cause
any problem, because defendants aren't going to want to
challenge them very often. If you look at the
statistics in the law professors' brief, they say in
States like California that -- first of all, we have a
huge category of cases that go away in plea bargains.
And then even within the category of cases that go to
trial, it's 10 percent of the time or less --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, a good defense
lawyer would love to have the guy there. The first
thing you say is: Do you remember testing Mr. Diaz's
sample? The guy is going to say no. Just as was
pointed out, I, you know, test thousands of samples.
Well, how long have you been working with the lab? You
know, just what -- what was your scientific background?
When did you -- how does this test work? You put three
drops of the acid in there. It turns color, whatever it
does. How do you know that? What is the chemical? I
mean, you spend three hours with the guy until the jury
just doesn't think there is anything to the case at all.
MR. FISHER: Well, the best I can do to
answer that, Mr. Chief Justice, is to say that
empirically apparently that just doesn't happen. And I
think the reason why is explained in some of the defense
manuals that we have cited in our brief, which say that
if your theory of the case has nothing to do with
whether the scientific report being introduced by the
prosecution is correct or not, very often the defense
isn't going to do itself any favors by -- by insisting
that that person take the stand, recite his credentials,
recite the testing, and recite the damning evidence.
JUSTICE ALITO: What does that fact support
-- why does that fact support your argument, that in all
of those cases you're arguing for what's going to be an
empty exercise?
MR. FISHER: No, I would very much resist
that it will always be an empty exercise.
JUSTICE ALITO: No. But in -- in the
instance where the defendant doesn't think it would be
worthwhile to subpoena the -- the recordkeeper, the
person who performed the test, but simply wants to put
the prosecution through the effort of getting the person
there to testify, it's -- what is achieved?
MR. FISHER: Well, as I said, I think that
through notice-and-demand regimes and stipulations,
often that is not going to happen. But if it is
achieved, what is achieved is the same thing that is
achieved in any criminal trial where a defendant insists
periodically that the prosecution be put to its proof.
After all, we are talking about putting
somebody away for many years in a typical --
JUSTICE BREYER: I absolutely see that
point. So that - all right, go back to the plea
bargaining, which is your first thing, which makes me a
little nervous for the reason that I see this bargaining
system as a system where the prosecutor makes a charge,
the prosecutor controls the sentence, then the defense
bar would like to have an added weapon, and this added
weapon is if you actually go to trial, I'm going to
insist that you call these people. You don't even know
where they are. I'm not going to accept the lab report.
And then maybe the prosecutor will lower the requirement
or maybe the prosecutor raised it in the first place
because he thought you would say something like that.
So I'm not -- is there anything you can say
about how this works in the presence of plea bargaining?
Do we know any -- do we have any information on that?
MR. FISHER: I don't know of any empirical
study where you might say what the price of this is. Of
course, it happens already every day with other
witnesses. You're going to have to bring in other
witnesses, and this is one more witness. But again,
even in a case where that's all that's going on, it's no
different than all the other legal rights the defendant
has.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure it's one more
witness. Labs are backed up with DNA. You know, the
Federal budget for the courts, for the Federal courts,
is $6 billion. Well, $1 billion of that is spent under
the Criminal Justice Act for experts and translators and
counsels. This -- this is a very, very substantial
burden if we tell every State in the country that
every -- in every drug case you are -- the State must
produce the expert.
MR. FISHER: Remember, Justice Kennedy,
that -- that if you look at the States where this
exists, that's not what happens and that's not what we
are insisting on. All we are insisting is that the
prosecution in a case where the defendant demands it,
whether it be through a notice and demand regime or
whether it be because the prosecution simply calls the
defense on the phone two weeks before trial and says,
I'd like to do this through documentary evidence -- and
then these repeat players remember who -- who -- one
thing I think it's worth keeping in mind in all this, is
that in the criminal justice system, by and large,
especially in drug cases like this, we are talking about
repeat players.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're talking about
the defendants or the lawyers?
MR. FISHER: I'm talking about the
lawyers --
(Laughter.)
MR. FISHER: -- by and large, Your Honor.
They have every -- they have incentives not to, as you
might say, yank the chain of the other side.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Fisher, I am interested
in the history since that's what the Court held in
Crawford, that the content of the Confrontation Clause
is not what we would like it to be, but what it
historically was when it was enshrined in the
Constitution. As a matter of history, was there a
business records exception, not from the hearsay rule
but from the Confrontation Clause?
MR. FISHER: Not that I'm aware of. The
best -- the best source that I believe exists is the
Wigmore treatise, which both sides have cited. It says
there was a shop-book rule that allowed shop-book
ledgers and entries at the common law. But there is
no -- there's no suggestion that that was --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why isn't that a business
records exception? I don't --
MR. FISHER: It is a business records
exception, but it's not an exception to the right to
confrontation because no one would have considered
ordinary business records created without contemplation
of litigation to be -- to be testimonial evidence. What
we have here --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, wait. You say it's --
that business records would often or usually not be
testimonial?
MR. FISHER: I think all of the business
records that were admissible at the time of the founding
would have been nontestimonial.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would have been
nontestimonial. So they'd come in on that basis, not
because they were business records?
MR. FISHER: In a criminal case -- well, the
typical regime -- and I'm going to assume that it exists
at the time of founding, but you need some evidentiary
rule to get a piece of evidence in in the first place,
whether it be business records or whether it be just an
ordinary rule of relevance. But, yes, they would have
been admissible at the time of -- ordinary business
record like a shop book would have been admissible at
the time of the founding, but would have not raised a
confrontation problem even in a criminal cause because
it would have been nontestimonial.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Fisher, I just want to
be about -- clear about one thing. We are talking about
drug cases primarily. But the rule that we are fighting
about is not limited to drugs. Doesn't it apply to
laboratory reports on DNA, blood tests, all sorts of
evidence? Isn't that correct?
MR. FISHER: That's right, Justice Stevens.
And you can you look at the Massachusetts own decisions.
The State courts in Massachusetts already extended their
rule in their day to ballistics tests, for example,
which are notoriously unreliable in terms of empirical
studies that have been -- that have been conducted about
them. And my understanding -- I think you're right --
is that nothing in the Commonwealth's rule distinguishes
one kind of forensic report from another.
The United States is offering a slightly
different analysis that appears to ask, to some degree,
the degree of interpretation involved in a given
forensic laboratory report. I don't know how you would
administer that rule, but I can say that to whatever
extent interpretation would be required, this is clearly
on the interpretive side of the ledger.
And again, if I could point the Court to a
source for that, the Scientific Evidence treatise by
Giannelli and Imwinkelried that the both parties cite at
section 23.030(c) lays out the mass spectrometry way of
testing for drugs that the Commonwealth tells you was
the test used in this case and describes in great detail
the amount of expertise, care, skill and interpretive
methods that need to be brought in that kind of a test.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do we know that
this was prepared in contemplation of litigation? I
mean, let's suppose the lab occasionally does analyses
for other -- research purposes. They get a sample, they
want to know what it's -- they want to test it, however
they do it. Are we just assuming that it's prepared in
contemplation of litigation because it usually is, or --
you can imagine a situation where the analyst really has
no idea, other than perhaps supposition, why he is being
asked to test the sample.
MR. FISHER: The easiest answer in this
case, Mr. Chief Justice, is it's required by
Massachusetts law that -- that these tests be done in
contemplation of prosecution. The law itself says that
the police officer can give it to an analyst, and the
analyst can certify a report if it's to be used for law
enforcement purposes. So there is a statutory
requirement. Now, you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the question
is it could be law enforcement purposes to test it for
the police to use and educational programs that want the
rookies to know what the cocaine looks like.
MR. FISHER: Well, to the degree it's not
answer ed in this case by statute, undoubtedly this
Court as it works through this jurisprudence will need
to ask a question of common sense, whether the actors
involved -- as this Court did in Davis -- whether the
actors involved would understand what they are doing is
creating evidence for a criminal case?
If there are no more questions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- I'm sorry. Go
ahead.
MR. FISHER: Okay. I'll reserve my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I -- may I just ask,
you would extend this to a -- a breath test, a blood
test, fingerprints, urinalysis? All of those would be
covered by your position?
MR. FISHER: To the extent that the
prosecution wanted to introduce a report certifying a
reporting result of a test, yes, it would be covered by
ours.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you answered the
question that a supervisor wouldn't be an adequate
substitute for the analyst. But suppose the lab says:
We are very busy in this place; could we schedule a
deposition; we'll present the analyst at a time mutually
agreeable to both sides, rather than have the analyst on
the hook to show up on a trial date?
MR. FISHER: That would work to preserve the
evidence in case the analyst became unavailable at the
time of trial. And then under this Court's
jurisprudence that deposition would be admissible.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But only if the analyst
wasn't there on the day of trial?
MR. FISHER: Then you -- then I don't think
it would substitute for live testimony.
But let me say one other way that this
problem can be addressed by States is that they could
have a supervisor take the stand and rely on raw data --
on raw data and give his or her explanation of raw data.
It's just that the person cannot take the stand and
relay somebody else's conclusion to the jury.
And if there are no more questions, I'll
reserve.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Fisher. We'll give you your full rebuttal time.
General Coakley.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARTHA COAKLEY
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. COAKLEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The drug analysis certificates at issue in
this case are not testimonial statements that have been
covered by the Confrontation Clause. That is, they are
not the statement of a percipient witness who has
observed past behavior of the defendant.
Indeed, what they are are official records
of objective identified -- it's independently verifiable
facts that are -- that were admissible at common law.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What is your answer to
Mr. Fisher's argument that if that proposition of yours
is -- is -- is, in fact, sound in response to this case,
the State can put in its entire case by -- in a
circumstantial evidence case, by way of affidavit and,
in effect, satisfy the Confrontation Clause by saying,
well, you can call the witness as part of the defense
case and cross-examine there?
MS. COAKLEY: Because clearly, the kinds of
affidavits that are the subject of Confrontation Clause
analysis could not be submitted by that. I think this
is an exception to that. And so --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, then that's what you
have got to explain to me. Why is it an exception?
MS. COAKLEY: Because first of all, although
the Court has not addressed it so far with Mr. Fisher,
these are really not testimonial statements. None of
the cases that have dealt with Confrontation Clause
analysis -- before Ohio, through Ohio, through in fact
Giles -- deal with the kind of statement that we are
talking about here. It's really a report of a scientist
test.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, what about the -- the
blue car going down the street statement? In a
circumstantial evidence case the witness comes in and
says yes, I saw a blue car go down the street at 10
o'clock. Is that testimonial?
MS. COAKLEY: It is, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And the distinction between
that and the lab report saying the substance that was
shown to me which I analyzed was cocaine, what's the --
what's the distinction?
MS. COAKLEY: In the first instance you have
a witness to an event in a particular case that can be
tied to, perhaps, behavior of the defendant that's
deemed to be criminal. It's -- it's classic hearsay and
subject to confrontation, if it's, you know, is going to
be used by the prosecution.
In this instance, though, we have a protocol
set up by a State statute that indeed does test
substances other than those definitely headed for
litigation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't see the difference
between the two. I mean, the one, he saw the blue car
going down the street, which through other evidence can
be connected to the defendant; and here the witness says
this is cocaine, which through other evidence is going
to be connected to the defendant. And in both cases
that -- that connected fact is deemed essential by the
prosecution for the conviction. I don't see the
difference between the two.
MS. COAKLEY: Well, I think there are
several differences, Your Honor, but one of which is
that it is identifiable and it can be verified outside
of what the scope of the Confrontation Clause is. In
other words, the defendant has a chance to test it ahead
of time, have his own independent witness. This doesn't
change. Whether it is cocaine before, during or after
the trial is testable.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, why --
MS. COAKLEY: And it's not true of a witness
statement.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why does that make a
difference? In other words, the -- Justice Scalia said
a moment ago, you know, the -- the statement about the
blue car is -- is tied in in the hypothetical case by
another witness who said yes, at -- at 10:01 when I
heard the gun go off there was a blue car there. In
this case the cocaine is tied in by saying, yes, the
cocaine which I delivered to X, about which he has
testified, is cocaine that I took out of the pocket of
the defendant.
There is -- there is a temporal and physical
path worked out in both cases. And it seems to me your
attempt to distinguish them is to say well, the temporal
path can be extended by one more step in the cocaine
case because you can take the cocaine or take something
from the cocaine sample and let the defense expert
testify to it; which of course is true, but I don't see
what that has got to do with the Confrontation Clause or
the definition of testimonial evidence.
MS. COAKLEY: I -- I think that that's
significant, Your Honor, because it can be tested and
verified and isn't dependent upon a cross examination at
trial.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But aren't you really
saying that the confrontation right is therefore not so
important because you have a greater opportunity in the
cocaine case of coming up with -- with rebutting
evidence, if indeed rebutting evidence can be found.
In other words, if -- if -- if the State's
witness is wrong, you've got a better shot at proving
him wrong than in the blue car case. But if that is
your argument, I don't see what it's got to do with --
with the basic confrontation right.
MR. FISHER: Well, I think I go back, Your
Honor, to looking at all the kinds of statements that
this Court has looked at within the scope of the
Confrontation Clause. This kind of public record,
official record, laboratory report, has never been the
subject of this kind of analysis and indeed it's not
sufficient.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, have we ever had --
have we ever had a -- a kind of lab report, public
record kind of case in -- in which the record was
prepared expressly for trial?
MS. COAKLEY: I think that if you look at
Dutton, for instance, and the concurring opinion by
Justice Harlan talking about laboratory reports deemed
to be whatever the analysis was, a business record, that
would have been --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but Justice Harlan did
not take the majority view. I mean you -- I don't know
where you get authority for the proposition that the
public record prepared for the purpose of litigation
would have come in under the, in effect, the founding
era -- or would have been outside the founding era
definition of testimonial.
MS. COAKLEY: Except the public record, for
instance of a coroner's result -- not the coroner's
verdict that involves Marian-type depositions, but the
results of a coroner's verdict that says somebody is
dead and this is the cause and manner and means of
death -- would have been admissible at the time with --
that kind of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: For the indictment, not --
not as -- not as independent evidence in the
prosecution. It would form the basis for the
indictment, as I understand what the history is. It
would not be introduced and -- and -- and shown to the
jury as evidence that -- that indeed the cause of death
was thus and so.
MR. FISHER: But autopsy results -- my
understanding, Your Honor, is that autopsy results --
again not a coroner's verdict, which -- in the reply
brief we believe that counsel has conflated what would
be a verdict between the fact of an official record, an
autopsy report of the death, manner and means of
death -- have been and still admissible.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me -- and tell
me if this is not the way you want to argue. It seems
to me to make your case you have to say of course this
is hearsay; and the question is whether it's
testimonial.
MS. COAKLEY: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it's not testimonial
because these are laboratory protocols, subject to
ongoing, objective, repeated standards; that's different
from testimony that it was a blue car, which is specific
to the case. That's the kind of framework of the
argument you have to make.
MS. COAKLEY: That's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that as a result of
that it is not testimonial because "testimonial" is a
legal term that's subject to interpretation. I -- I
guess that's the argument you're making and that you
have to make.
MS. COAKLEY: Well, that's correct, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: As I see it.
MS. COAKLEY: And I think that that is
certainly consistent with the way in which this Court in
looking at the series of cases from Crawford since, have
looked at what a testimonial statement is. Admittedly,
you haven't addressed this kind of statement, and I
would argue because it doesn't fall within the principal
evil that the Confrontation Clause is designed to
prevent.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Of course the problem was
in -- I think it was Hammond was the companion case to
David.
MS. COAKLEY: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The -- the 911 call was
done for other -- really other purposes. It wasn't
testimonial because it wasn't really directed to trial.
This does seem more directed to trial, so then you have
to tell us why even if it is, there are some independent
guarantees of -- of reliability that means that we
should say it's not testimonial as a legal matter.
MS. COAKLEY: Well, I agree, Your Honor. I
think that you cannot pull one of these qualities out
and say that because it's prepared in anticipation of
trial means that therefore it is testimonial. There
have been several criteria that this Court has looked
at, including -- there are other kinds of analogies to
this that are akin to this kind of record. For
instance, in an assault case, a gun which is the real
evidence -- remember the cocaine is the real evidence
here -- the Commonwealth would introduce a certificate
saying this is a working gun, and that is in lieu of the
analyst coming in. When we have to prove public way,
when we have to prove school zone, when we have to prove
in some instances --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ballistics as well? You
would extend this to ballistic tests?
MS. COAKLEY: If --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you don't have to
bring in the ballistic expert? You can just --
MS. COAKLEY: Not to prove it's a working
firearm, Your Honor. In order to make a comparison -- I
would agree with counsel that once you get into the
discretionary areas that you need to make comparisons
and analysis, but this is not that case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that
difference.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm looking at
footnote 10 in your brief on page 30. And you concede
that some interpretation of the machine-generated data
ordinarily is required. Now why isn't that a suggestion
that there is some leeway and subjective interpretation,
and you might have different analysts coming out
differently and so you need to get the fellow there and
ask him well, how often do you -- how often do one of
your fellow analysts disagree with your conclusion?
Or this is subjective; I guess some people
read it one way or the other one way; which way do you
always read it? That kind of stuff.
MS. COAKLEY: Well, interestingly, Your
Honor, that argument wasn't raised in this case below
and really hasn't been raised in this case before the
Court. In fact this is one of the straightforward
objective tests that says you put this material into the
machine, and the Solicitor General also deals with this.
The 100 percent accuracy by and large from that result
says this is cocaine; this is heroin, this is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I didn't -- I
didn't go back and read the scientific treatise you
cite, but you say some interpretation is required. So
what type of interpretation?
MS. COAKLEY: The interpretation that
because of the way that the machine works, the chemicals
are separated out. And so a chemist, if properly
trained, can say by the separation of the chemicals
these three, or four or whatever the elements are, equal
cocaine.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, do you have to have
a machine? I mean, what about -- what about ballistics?
"This bullet came from that gun." Does that involve
sufficient discretion, sufficient judgment that the
expert has to be there, while the blood -- blood or drug
testing doesn't?
It seems to me that's where you have to draw
the line.
MS. COAKLEY: Well, I believe that that's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And to say that that
wasn't raised in the case, this is precisely the
question we are going to have to decide if you're going
to prevail. I don't think it helps to say it wasn't
raised in the case.
MS. COAKLEY: Well, I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We are raising it.
MS. COAKLEY: I agree, Your Honor. But that
has to do with how satisfied the Court is whether here
or in other jurisdictions that is a reliable result, and
I hesitate to use the word "reliable." I don't mean it
in the Ohio v. Roberts sense. We are talking about the
scientific test that is or is not reliable, and
therefore does it require some other test, whether
Confrontation Clause or not?
JUSTICE BREYER: How can we administer
something like that? His point I think is, look, you
can't make any distinction either of something that is
evidence was prepared with an eye towards trial or it
wasn't. And if it was prepared with an eye towards
trial, well, then call the person and have him testify.
That's it. And if that encompasses every test under the
sun, so be it, because there is no way to draw a
reasonable line.
You start talking about reliability and
their amicus brief is filled with horror stories of how
police labs or other labs have really been way off base
and moreover really wrong. And you say, oh, distinguish
between a police lab and University of Massachusetts?
Try going down that road of which one is reliable, which
one isn't reliable. How do we know?
MS. COAKLEY: Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's his point. No
workable way to do it. There can be horrors on both --
in both areas, and so follow what the history was where
there was no history on this being admissible.
MS. COAKLEY: Your Honor, I disagree because
the issues around many of those wrongful convictions
related to suggestive identification procedures, other
kinds of issues. I'm not aware of any wrongful
convictions that came about because --
JUSTICE BREYER: Aren't there some things I
read in the paper all the time, about these laboratories
in various places, and they lost the results, they got
it all wrong? That just doesn't happen?
MS. COAKLEY: I'm not saying that, Your
Honor, but I'm saying there are certain evils that the
Confrontation Clause is designed to prevent. Either
abuse at the laboratory stage or misconduct by
prosecutors prior to trial or analysts is not one that
the Confrontation Clause is either designed to or is
specifically very good at getting at.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why not? I know I prefer
one thing, the custody. It's very important to know
whether indeed this was the particular substance that
was taken from the defendant. And to establish that,
you have to establish a line of custody. And you can't
do that without getting in the person who did the test.
MS. COAKLEY: Well, Your Honor, I agree the
chain of custody is crucial and it relates to the
careful procedure that a police officer used, who by the
way is the confrontation witness that you worry about
because the behavior is the buying, selling, possession
of drugs. The element of whether it is cocaine or not
really becomes almost secondary to the case. The issue
is was the behavior criminal? So the officer who seized
the drugs is available for confrontation. The drug is
then clearly marked so the Commonwealth has to create
that chain of custody for the court, and indeed if the
defendant, who is in the best position to think that
perhaps this is involving something other than cocaine
or heroin, has all the opportunities that he needs to
make sure that he gets a fair trial.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He says -- the policeman
says, "And I gave it to the University of Massachusetts
lab."
MS. COAKLEY: And they marked it in a
particular way that identified --
JUSTICE SCALIA: "And I watched when they
marked it in a particular way."
MS. COAKLEY: And the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do I know that that
thing is the one that got to the desk of the analyst who
wrote this report?
MS. COAKLEY: I think that whether you
brought the analyst in or not, you would have the same
establishment of the chain of custody and, indeed, that
piece of evidence as to whether it's the same drug
relates to the officer in this case testified the
packaging. He could identify it. It comes back --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you say you can require
witnesses to show that, right up to the analyst who did
the testing, you can require witnesses to testify? All
the way up to there but not the analyst himself?
MS. COAKLEY: I think, Your Honor, that the
issue between chain of custody and whether the
Confrontation Clause is implicated are different issues
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but you say that, it
seems to me, because you are -- and I think consistently
-- making a distinction between credibility issues and
reliability issues. And I think you are implicitly
saying the Confrontation Clause is there to test
credibility but not reliability.
MS. COAKLEY: I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: The machine is reliable;
therefore, it's outside of confrontation. And I don't
understand the validity of this distinction that is
implicit in your answers.
MS. COAKLEY: I think perhaps if the Court
looks at accuracy rather than reliability and gets
outside the realm of the kinds of statements --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, accuracy --
MS. COAKLEY: -- that we looked at.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- is an aspect of it.
MS. COAKLEY: But accuracy goes to what this
Court has always allowed in referring to, for instance,
a business records exception or a public records
exception. The reason they are admissible is precisely
because we believe them to be accurate, and more
importantly in this case --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. No. They are
admissible in criminal cases as far as the Confrontation
Clause is concerned because they are not testimonial.
MS. COAKLEY: And they are related, however,
Your Honor, because the roots of whether it's hearsay or
not and the Confrontation Clause arguments come from the
same concern that somebody get a fair trial, that he or
she has the right to confront the witness --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We are back to Roberts
then.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I do wish you would
comment on the argument that the State of California --
a huge state with many, many drug prosecutions -- seems
to get along all right under the rule that the
Petitioner proposes.
MS. COAKLEY: I did join the amicus brief,
Your Honor. I believe and -- though I think it's too
early to tell because I, certainly from my own
experience, know that the number of cases that go to
trial is not an indication of what the work is that is
involved, and I know that in Massachusetts it would --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If the State of California
and other populous States have for, I take it, some
number of years been able to function quite effectively
under the rule that the Petitioner proposes, it seems to
me that's something that you have to address.
MS. COAKLEY: And I address that, Your
Honor, by saying that for Massachusetts it would be an
undue burden with very little benefit to the defendant.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why would it be undue for
California and not for -- are you accepting the fact
that in California it's a workable rule and it's caused
no problems?
MS. COAKLEY: I -- I can't disagree with
that, Your Honor. I don't have enough information about
the way California works or doesn't work. I know that
as a practical matter --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, it seems to me it's
a very important point.
MS. COAKLEY: Well, as a practical matter in
Massachusetts, it would mean that district court
misdemeanor drug prosecutions would essentially grind to
a halt, and the value to the defendant -- and this Court
has looked at in Inadi and in other situations where
there does not seem to be the real issue involved with
Confrontation Clause.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then you're predicting
that grind to a halt, but there are going to be a large
number that wash out because they are plea bargained.
So they won't get into the picture at all. There will
probably be a goodly number in which defense counsel
will stipulate that the drug quantity -- the drug type
was such and such and quantity such and such. So you
don't know in how many cases the defendant would take
advantage of this confrontation right?
MS. COAKLEY: No, and they often will not
stipulate, Your Honor, until the day of trial when they
realize that the chemist is there. That's from my own
experience and that's a commonsensical rule. The
question is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't these people have to
appear before the same judge again and again? The point
made these are repeat attorneys, and I don't think you
make friends and influence people among judges by
insisting upon testimony in criminal cases where it is
obviously not needed.
MS. COAKLEY: Well, two points, Your Honor:
In Massachusetts, we do have a circuit court and a
superior court so judges move around. And the second
thing is that -- my experience is that defendants,
whether appointed or otherwise, are extremely vigorous
in protecting their rights, and if I were defense
counsel and I had a strategic advantage, I would insist
on it.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you see any reason --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think California
did not join the amicus brief.
MS. COAKLEY: Then I misspoke.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you see any reason why a
notice-and-demand statute wouldn't satisfy your concern?
MS. COAKLEY: Well, the -- the Petitioner
agreed that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: A bland notice-and-demand
statute --
MS. COAKLEY: We would argue that
Massachusetts' statute is the functional equivalent of a
notice-and-demand statute and complies with whatever
concerns the Court may have about the right to
confrontation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if it's the
central issue in the case? The defense says, "That
stuff I was carrying was not cocaine. Either I was
trying -- you know, I was going to stiff the person I
was selling it to or whatever." That's the sole
defense. That's not cocaine. All you've got to do is
submit an affidavit from the lab guy saying, "I tested
it; it is"?
MS. COAKLEY: Well, from the prosecution's
point of view that would be a bad strategic decision.
That's an instance where you would bring in the analyst
because you want to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's a non- answer. We
are asking what's the rule?
MS. COAKLEY: The rule --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you submit it on the
affidavit, as the Chief Justice said under your theory
of the case?
MS. COAKLEY: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You'd try to have some
different hypothesis?
MS. COAKLEY: Yes, because the defendant has
plenty of opportunity to both have an independent exam,
to subpoena the witness in himself, to make sure that if
that is a true issue at trial -- in many instances --
most instances it's not, but he will have the
opportunity to cross-examine.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Ms. Schertler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA H. SCHERTLER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MS. SCHERTLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The Confrontation Clause is not implicated
when a human being merely authenticates for trial the
instruments-generated result of a scientific test. That
is because the direct output of an instrument is not
testimonial and human assertions that merely establish
the foundation for admitting nontestimonial evidence do
not themselves trigger Confrontation Clause rights.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, maybe if you were
just -- if you were just putting in the machine, the raw
information from the machine. But here what speaks is
the certification by the analyst, so you don't have
simply a machine-generated result; you have a human
person who seems to be testifying: I certify that this
is an accurate report.
MS. SCHERTLER: If I could draw an analogy,
Justice Ginsburg, to a historical example that we think
illustrates our point, historically records custodians
-- public records custodians have been permitted to
certify through, when they have express authority at the
common law, and -- and into present day that they did a
records search, that they found a document within the
public records of an agency, and that the document that
they are attaching is a true copy of what they found.
Those are statements by humans that really
set forth the conditions for -- under which the evidence
is being presented to the jury.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But --
MS. SCHERTLER: But those have always been
accepted.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not material prepared
for trial. It's not material that was generated
precisely in order to prosecute an individual.
MS. SCHERTLER: The underlying material in
the public records case is not testimonial because it
was not prepared for trial.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly.
MS. SCHERTLER: In this case, Justice
Scalia, we would submit that the underlying material is
also not testimonial, albeit for a separate reason; and
that is that it is an instrument-generated result and
therefore not the statement of a witness.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's, let's assume that
it's critical to a particular murder prosecution what
time the shot was fired, okay? And you mean to tell me
if -- if somebody says I heard the clock strike 12 at
the time the shot was fired, that would not be
testimony? Yes, the clock is a machine, right?
MS. SCHERTLER: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He is just reciting what
the clock said.
MS. SCHERTLER: My analogy would be, Justice
Scalia, if that clock had in itself a trigger mechanism
that would detect when a gunshot was fired; and if that
clock delivered, as you have in the cases of a drug
analysis, a result, a reading that one could submit into
court that says shot detected at 12 p.m., that that
nontestimonial evidence could be submitted consistently
with Confrontation Clause principles, but it would still
require authentication.
Some person may have to establish that this
clock was set up, it was operating properly, it was
calibrated the way it had to. Those all go to the same
sorts of foundational facts that are akin to the public
records certificate.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you make me think the
public certificate. Let's imagine birth and death
records. There is a whole building full of them; they
are on microfiche. Now, I am not sure how Massachusetts
works, but I suppose if you want to introduce one you
call up the -- the keeper and the keeper looks it up,
produces it, and has a separate piece of paper or maybe
written beneath it which says: "This is a true copy of
the," and you don't call in the keeper.
Now that statement on a piece of paper,
"this is a true copy of the birth certificate of John
Smith," that was prepared specifically for this trial.
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: So I take it that has
nothing -- I mean we'll find out, but if they win, every
one of those cases, every document you have to bring in
the person to make clear that the document that says
that this is a copy of the document --
MS. SCHERTLER: Our --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that what -- is that the
point?
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, that is -- that is our
point. That it is too -- it is too simplified to say,
as Petitioner does here, that if it's an affidavit or a
certificate, and it's prepared for trial, that's the end
of the analysis.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you have to have some
boundaries, you have to have some framework, you have to
have some explanation. You started talking about a
machine. There is no machine in Justice Breyer's
hypothetical, so it seems to me you have two different
rationales floating around here and -- and neither are
tethered to a specific rule.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, Justice Kennedy, this
is why I would bring those two rules together. In the
public records example, what you have is underlying
evidence going into the jury that is nontestimonial. In
that instance, it was because it was a public record not
prepared for trial but has always been accepted from --
has always been viewed as nontestimonial.
Your Honor is correct. In this case we
don't have that, but what we do have is an underlying
evidentiary item that is nontestimonial for a separate
purpose, and that is that it is a machine-generated
result.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: You're going to work
either. Because the person -- Sir Walter Raleigh's
accusers wanted to testify about something that was
nontestimonial: what happened on the day. So what we
are looking for -- I mean, I agree with you that it is a
very peculiar result that's going to have every public
document in the United States suddenly have the keeper
of that document having to come into court.
On the other hand, I'm having a hard time
figuring out what the distinction is between that and
all these other things.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well -- yes, Justice Breyer.
Let me just add that in the public records custodian
situation, there is always the possibility that the
public records custodian who is signing that certificate
was careless, is a liar; and those certificates yet have
always been viewed as simply foundational vehicles for
getting to the jury nontestimonial evidence. The
defense is not --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Ms. Schertler, please
clarify one thing for me. Is the rule you're seeking
one limited to tests performed by machines?
MS. SCHERTLER: The rule that I have
articulated so far, yes. It is -- it would be --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So would you agree the
Confrontation Clause would apply if it were an
independent expert's test -- test results and testimony.
MS. SCHERTLER: Justice Stevens, we also
have an alternative argument --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Just tell me yes or no.
MS. SCHERTLER: No. I would not. Because
we have an alternative --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, then we shouldn't
talk about just machines.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, we hope to rely on one
of the same arguments that Massachusetts does, which is
that there was a broad exception at common law for
official records, those created by public officers doing
their duty.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me you have to
do that because there is all sorts of machines that have
to be interpreted. There -- a chromatic spectrum
analysis; the person has to say what he saw there, what
she saw there.
MS. SCHERTLER: I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So just because the
machine is involved it seems to me we cannot make a
sensible rule based on that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And there was not a broad
exception at common law for public records created in
anticipation of criminal litigation.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, we have -- I mean, we
have looked for that limitation in the authorities and
we simply have not found it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Have you found cases where
the material was admitted as a public record despite the
fact that it was a public record created for
prosecution?
MR. FISHER: The difficulty with that,
Justice Scalia, is I don't know of equivalent or
comparable records that were being created at that time
for purposes of litigation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: These other records, no,
you haven't found them.
MS. SCHERTLER: No. I have -- I have not.
Yet, if I could go back to Justice Kennedy's
question, there is no record here about how this test in
particular was done, but there -- there -- I can tell
the Court that actually technology in the controlled
substance area is to the point where an instrument does
in fact provide an answer to the analyst. It provides a
mass spectrum of the unknown and a --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes but the rule, the
issue is not limited to drug cases. Murder cases, all
sorts of cases where there is scientific evidence.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, the -- the narrower
rule that we are discussing here would be limited to
those situations in which the underlying evidence to be
presented to the jury is nontestimonial because it is
instrument-generated and did not require human analysis.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is your -- what
is your answer to the question I posed to the Attorney
General? The only issue in the case is whether the
powder is or is not cocaine. You think you get by if
the law says you can admit this with an affidavit?
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice for
the following reason. Just as in the case of the
records custodians, a defendant may believe that that is
not an authentic record; and nothing about the rule we
propose would prevent the defense from challenging the
authenticity or the circumstances, the correctness of
the testing procedures that were used.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you can't --
MS. SCHERTLER: It's just a question of
whether -- whether the Confrontation Clause requires
that that challenge occur in the Government's case on
cross-examination, or as in these record custodian's
cases, if the defense wants to challenge the
authenticity of the underlying nontestimonial evidence,
he must do so in his case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you comment on the
California experience, please?
MS. SCHERTLER: I would -- I would be happy
to, Justice Kennedy.
I -- I don't have information about
California. I do have information about the District of
Columbia. And I can tell the court that in the time
period since the District of Columbia Court of Appeals
held that these sorts of certificates of analysis were
testimonial, that the court appearances that have been
required of DEA chemists at the Mid-Atlantic laboratory
have increased by 500 percent, from seven to 10
appearances per month to routinely over 50 per month,
and that the corresponding time that it takes to analyze
substance has increased.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you counsel.
Five minutes, Mr. Fisher.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FISHER: Let me start, Your Honors: If
there is any doubt remaining about the machine-generated
theory that the Solicitor General was putting forward
today, again I would refer the court back to the
scientific evidence treatise.
The raw data of a mass spectrometer looks --
looks something like a heart monitor. It's a printout
of the squiggly line across the page that a person needs
to look at and then analyze as to what it shows about
the molecular composite of the substance that the
machine was operating. We have no objection if
prosecutors in criminal cases want to introduce machine
generated data. They can do that.
But what they can't do is introduce --
introduce affidavits certifying as to their -- you know,
their interpretation of what a machine did or simply
what a machine says, because there is no difference --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you say they could
introduce the squiggly line and put on the stand an
analyst who says what that squiggly line shows is that
this was cocaine?
MR. FISHER: They could do that, Justice
Scalia.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's your distinction
with the recordkeeper?
MR. FISHER: Pardon me?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's your distinction
from your own theory of the recordkeeper? Does the
recordkeeper all have to -- do they all have to testify
to testify that this is indeed the record?
MR. FISHER: My understanding of the common
law on that, as the solicitor general put it, is that
that was a foundational requirement that was not
necessarily considered evidence.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, there's a
hearsay -- there is a hearsay aspect. I'm not saying
it's the only thing. There is a chain and so forth but,
there is a hearsay aspect to that which you see, okay.
The certificate says this is Joe Jones' birth
certificate. That's what the -- now, that's that person
outside of court who made that little piece of paper for
purposes of this case. And moreover, the statement that
it certifies to is directly relevant; indeed, the whole
thing falls without it.
So, are you going to say the same thing
applies, your rule, and you have to call the
recordkeeper in or not? And I think you're going to say
not. And if you're going to say not, I want to know
what the distinction is?
MR. FISHER: As a general matter, yes, our
rule is consistent. Now, if you look at Wigmore,
Wigmore --
JUSTICE BREYER: You are going to calling
in -- you're going to --
MR. FISHER: I'm trying to answer. What
Wigmore says is that something like a public
recordkeeper's seal was not considered evidence, per se.
It was a foundational requirement to put evidence in.
And so, in this Court's words in the Dowdell case, it's
something like a court reporter's transcript that goes
up to a Court of Appeals and then is looked at. It's
not considered evidence against a criminal defendant.
Now, in stark contrast to this case where
the document is expressly citing to a statute of
Massachusetts law and saying this element of the
criminal charge is satisfied. It is a very big
difference.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The graph, spectrograph
or -- or -- or the -- the chart is introduced. Chain of
custody is either stipulated or established. Can a
person who did not make the test testify as to what that
line -- what that graph means, and would that be
sufficient to convict?
MR. FISHER: So long as chain of custody was
satisfied, yes, Justice Kennedy, that someone could take
the stand and do that. But remember, the reports in
this case do not just report -- even if you accepted the
solicitor's general's version that they are reporting
what the machine said about the substance, they also
have a paragraph before that, and this goes to Justice
Scalia's question, say, these are -- these are the
substances that were taken from the defendant in this
case and given to me by this officer, and so, that is
additional information that is being sworn to in the
affidavit in this case that is also testimony.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why don't you insist, even
in that case, on the confrontation right to examine the
person who actually conducted the test itself and
generated the papers that the later expert testifies on
in order to determine the admissibility of the -- of
the -- the test results themselves?
MR. FISHER: I think the defendant may have
that right. I understood Justice Kennedy's hypothetical
to suggest that that chain of custody was stipulated to
or otherwise agreed.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. All I wanted to know
was whether you were giving that away or not.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, but chain of custody
is -- is quite different from the quantitative analysis
and the professional opinion. My question is only chain
of custody has been established, that's gone to the
laboratory, the paper is produced, an outside witness
testifies to what the paper means. I thought you said
that that suffices.
MR. FISHER: I did. So I think I'm --
here's what I'm saying.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Let me ask you this. There
are -- there are -- there are three possibility
subjects: Chain of custody, conduct of test,
significance or meaning of the squiggles. As I
understand it, you have said if the chain of custody is
established and if the squiggles are admitted in
evidence, an expert who did not do the test can testify
about the significance of the squiggles. But that
leaves the question of the -- the evidence about the
conduct of the test itself.
And I understood you to say to me that you
were not conceding that you did not have a -- a
confrontation right to examine the person who did the
test itself in order to determine admissibility.
MR. FISHER: I think what we are doing here
is disagreeing slightly over where chain of custody
begins and ends. To the extent chain of custody gets
you to the point at which the substance is put into the
machine, and that was stipulated to or otherwise not
thought about, then, yes, the printout could be
introduced into evidence and anyone could testify as to
what that printout means. But to the extent that there
was a gap between the drugs getting into the laboratory
and being put into the machine by somebody that the
defendant was not stipulating to, then whoever did
that -- if the State were going to assert this is who
did it and this is the drugs that we had -- that would
be something that would be subject to cross-examination.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:04 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
63:15 Admittedly analyses 26:4 areas 37:8 40:10 authentication
admitting 49:1 11:24 25:13 35:22 47:6 authenticity
61:3 adversary 8:15 54:23 56:11 11:13 12:1 49:14
5:5 29:11 7:18,18 13:22 37:25 44:8 41:17
52:8 56:16 27:21,23,24 57:25 40:15
10:5,9 29:16 47:21 49:6 arises 8:14 back 21:1 33:2
18:11 agree 9:7 10:1 58:10 asking 11:1 background
10:20 36:11 analyzed 30:12 47:24 19:13
agreeable 27:24 18:8 assault 36:18 ballistics 25:6
61:21 13:13 16:6 63:8 bar 21:6
29:22 27:8 31:12 29:7 47:23 12:21,24 48:25 bargaining 21:2
ahold 17:19 56:2,13 60:6 assistant 1:19 21:3,14
27:20 ALITO 20:5,11 36:13 55:6 50:12 55:3
39:16 allowed 17:17 19:21 assuming 26:7 basis 7:10 12:7
62:21 alternative 54:9 60:12 18:12 begins 62:24
28:4 ambit 13:1 appearances attempt 8:24 1:21 2:4,6,8,12
34:5,20 amicus 1:21 2:8 1:14 57:16,19 32:6 3:7 28:21
43:19,23 40:1 44:12 appears 25:13 Attorney 1:17 48:16 58:1
amount 25:25 59:22 attorneys 46:9 30:16 41:13,16
23:14 14:7,10 21:19 35:5 14:15 19:4,5 4:22,25 19:7
38:25 37:4 47:21 care 25:25 cause 18:24 19:20 22:22
44:13 51:25 52:19 careful 9:25 24:20 34:4,12 26:2,13,20
broad 54:17 41:11 caused 45:3 27:7,10 28:17
19:19 budget 22:1 case 3:4,14,18 certainly 13:3,3 48:19 56:12,17
41:20 building 51:12 4:12 6:19 7:4,7 35:18 44:14 56:24 57:23
11:14 15:7,19 18:18,19 19:18 28:24 53:21 56:22
24:3,5,10,15 25:24 26:13,25 49:6 cite 25:21 38:9
27:12 43:18 29:9,10,11,14 certify 26:17 23:15
business-record 30:6,15 31:22 49:8,14 citing 60:15
32:24 busy 27:22 32:24 33:11 58:16 class 11:15 12:8
buying 41:13 34:23 35:6 chain 23:4 41:10 classic 30:17
calibrated 51:7 47:12 48:3 challenge 19:1 23:7,12 29:1
14:3,24,25 56:14,18 57:2 challenging 31:11 32:11
57:8,12 61:9,11,13 change 31:14 41:1 42:22
18:2 call 4:5 5:18 63:13,14 characterized 43:3,24 44:2
20:25 7:17,25 8:24 cases 6:5 11:20 12:1 45:17 48:21
40:8,17 9:2,18,20,22 19:4,5 20:7 charge 21:4 49:2 51:3 54:6
13:3 16:17 22:20 24:24 60:17 57:1
53:6,17 17:18 21:8 29:24 31:4 chart 60:20 clauses 8:13
60:4 29:13 36:4 32:5 35:19 checks 15:11 clear 3:11 6:1
19:2,23 called 3:24 8:21 50:24 51:25 38:14 clearly 11:12
37:13 calling 60:4 55:10 56:5,5,6 chemist 38:13 25:17 29:15
44:12 calls 22:14 57:4 58:13 46:4 41:18
car 30:5,7,25 categories 13:25 chemists 57:17 clock 50:15,17
46:5 31:11 32:11,18 correctness Crawford 3:10
Commonwealth 33:1,5 35:23 56:22 7:11 11:16
28:19,20 Commonweal... 43:23 44:2 34:17 37:7 41:18
29:15,21 25:10 45:17 46:1 45:22 46:19 created 12:13
31:8 companion 36:1 47:10 48:21 57:23 63:12 23:24 54:18
32:13 company 13:18 49:2 51:3 54:6 counsels 22:4 55:5,12,16
35:1 15:23 57:1 61:13 country 17:16 creating 27:5
comparable 62:20 22:5 credentials 6:21
37:2,5 55:16 connected 31:2 couple 14:19 20:3
38:11,25 comparison 31:4,5 course 8:20 credibility 43:1
40:7,12 37:6 considered 10:11 11:15 43:4
41:9 comparisons 11:10 15:7 14:10 16:8 crime 12:17
37:8 23:23 59:10 21:18 32:10 criminal 3:22
complex 6:11 60:8,13 34:23 35:25 7:4,23 16:5
44:12,23 complies 47:8 consistent 35:18 court 1:1,12 3:9 18:19 20:21
46:2 composite 58:11 60:2 3:10 6:1 8:9,13 22:3,19 24:11
47:2 Compulsory 8:6 consistently 9:23 10:23 24:20 27:5
8:6 9:13 42:25 51:2 11:15 13:14 30:17 41:16
concede 37:13 Constitution 8:2 17:2 18:14 43:23 46:11
30:12 concern 44:3 constitutional 27:1,3 28:23 60:13,17
47:1 9:11,14 10:3 29:22 33:4 criteria 36:15
concerned 43:24 contemplation 35:18 36:15 critical 50:13
38:6,16 concerns 47:9 11:9 18:17 38:2 39:9 cross 32:15
47:13 conclusion 23:24 26:3,8 41:19 43:10,17 cross-examina...
56:15 28:14 37:20 26:15 45:12,14 46:14 3:16 17:3 57:3
concurring content 23:7 46:15 47:9 63:10
conduct 62:10 controlled 55:25 57:13,14,16 8:20 29:14
44:2 conducted 25:8 convict 60:24 60:11,12 cross-examini...
61:14 conviction 31:6 courts 7:11 7:9
confront 44:4 40:13,16 25:5 curiae 1:22 2:9
37:17 3:11 8:3,5,10 51:17,20 52:2 8:11 9:12 custodian 53:18
11:3,21 12:9 coroner's 34:1,1 18:1 28:3 custodians
29:6 16:7,23 18:21 correct 7:21 cover 15:20 custodian's 57:3
54:17 23:7,12,23 12:24 14:22 covered 18:5 custody 41:4,7
59:7 24:20 29:1,12 20:1 25:2 27:14,17 29:1 41:10,19 42:12
62:2 22:23 46:16 60:18 11:3,9 12:13 empirically
defendant's 8:3 differences 31:9 doing 5:20 14:20 19:21
58:7,14 29:13 32:9 differently draw 38:23 enforcement
28:6 46:3 definition 15:18 directed 36:6,7 38:21 41:17 equal 38:15
53:9 18:15 32:12 directly 59:19 42:13 44:9 equivalent 3:19
51:11 demand 9:18 discretion 38:20 Dutton 33:14 essential 31:5
12:7 17:2 demands 22:12 37:8 D.C 1:8,21 establish 41:6,7
18:15 Department discussing 14:14 48:25 51:5
1:20 56:8 E established
11:11 depends 5:13 43:1,8 53:15 easiest 26:12 42:12
47:20 deposition 27:23 58:25 59:3,25 easily 13:6 event 30:15
33:15 describes 25:24 distinguished 26:22 13:12 18:23
7:17 12:17 distinguishes 33:22 23:25 24:14
8:7,8 9:15 designed 35:23 25:10 effectively 44:20 25:2,20 27:5
40:23 41:1 district 45:12 effort 20:15 28:2 29:11
17:1,17 desk 7:24 42:8 57:12,14 either 39:18 30:6 31:1,3
20:12,21 despite 55:11 DNA 6:11 21:25 40:23 41:1 32:12,21,21
22:12 detail 25:24 25:1 47:13 53:7 34:8,12 36:19
30:16 detect 50:23 document 6:24 60:21 36:19 39:19
32:3 detected 51:1 7:1 18:16 element 3:22 42:13 49:1,20
44:25 determine 61:16 49:16,17 51:25 18:19 41:14 51:2 52:21
48:7 62:21 52:1,2 53:12 60:16 53:23 56:6,9
60:13 Diaz's 19:9 53:13 60:15 elements 38:15 57:5 58:6
63:7 difference 8:13 documentary else's 28:14 59:10 60:8,9
18:25 37:11 58:18 documents 3:19 25:7 63:3
53:2 expressly 33:12 50:23 49:16,18 55:9 25:14 61:9
extended 25:5 30:14 51:8 53:22 go 15:14,15 19:4
16:4 17:24 4:9,22 5:11,16 24:13,19 33:22 31:24 33:2
27:15 62:24 7:20 9:4 10:6 four 38:15 51:7 55:22
49:11 extremely 46:17 13:7,19,24 52:12 43:16 60:11
eye 39:19,20 14:9 15:1 16:2 friends 46:10 61:6
15:19,20 F 17:11,24 18:3 full 28:18 51:12 16:16,16 17:20
23:11,20 facie 9:22 18:9,13 19:19 function 44:20 18:24,25 19:10
29:18 fact 3:21 4:11 20:9,17 21:16 functional 47:7 20:2,7,19 21:7
43:18,19 6:24 12:24 22:8,24 23:2,5 21:9,19,21
55:5 13:14,22 16:5 23:13,21 24:5 G 24:12 30:5,18
16:24 29:9,25 31:5 26:12,24 27:9 gap 63:5 40:5 45:19
45:2 55:12 28:18 29:22 9:8 10:2 28:19 53:6,11 59:21
facts 10:17 55:14 57:24,25 56:14 58:4 60:5 63:8
24:12 51:8 60:1,6,25 generally 18:16 41:2
44:3 Fisher's 29:8 generate 13:12 Government 5:4
46:5,16 fall 12:25 18:20 five 14:17 57:24 58:14 61:15 57:2
35:22 floating 52:16 Georgia 14:3 governs 8:16
38:21 far 5:13 29:22 followed 14:25 20:15 41:2,8 great 25:24
62:14 43:23 54:4 following 56:18 53:23 63:5 greater 32:19
figuring 53:15 form 34:9 14:14 27:11,19 guess 5:1 15:24
find 12:14 15:5 forth 6:12 10:10 49:3,11 gun 31:24 36:18
28:12 fingerprints forthrightly 10:25 gunshot 50:23
27:13 3:23 give 13:22,24 guy 5:3 19:8,10
52:25 57:22 incriminates 38:10,11 58:17 jurisprudence
40:20 hope 54:15 13:3 31:13 interpretive jury 3:15 6:25
53:9 horrors 40:9 54:7 introduce 8:16 19:17 28:14
22:10 huge 19:4 44:9 29:5 51:14 58:13,15 52:21 53:23
52:15 61:19 13:11 involve 38:19 11:22 12:10
14:4
23:11 idea 26:10 13:23 21:15 45:16 55:2 15:3 16:2,8,11
34:24 identifiable 45:6 49:5 involves 34:2 16:13,14,15
59:12,12 31:10 57:11,12 61:10 involving 41:21 17:4,9,12 18:2
identification Innocence 17:5 issue 3:18 10:22 18:4,10 19:7
42:3 insisting 20:2 42:21 45:16 22:3,8,19,22
14:3 instance 20:12 issues 40:13,15 26:2,13,20
49:11 implicated instances 17:10 JEFFREY 1:15 31:19,20 32:17
implicit 43:9 instrument 57:25 34:7,21 35:2,9
23:6,10 important 32:19 instruments-g... John 5:18,18 36:25 37:3,10
40:10,11 41:4 45:10 48:23 51:20 37:12 38:7,17
32:14 Imwinkelried insulation 10:17 judge 12:6 46:8 42:4,7,16,24
34:15 25:21 interested 17:14 judges 12:2 43:6,13,15,22
36:11 Inadi 45:15 23:5 46:10,15 44:5,7,18 45:1
46:7 kind 9:21 14:13 38:5 45:19 long 19:12 60:25 56:3 58:7
25:11 26:1 Laughter 23:1 look 15:4,18 Massachusetts
30:1 33:5,7,10 law 9:6 14:4 17:15 19:1 1:6 3:4 4:2
33:11 34:6 19:2 23:17 22:9 25:4 15:10 25:4,5
35:6,21 36:17 26:14,15,17,21 33:13 39:17 26:14 40:4
37:23 29:6 49:15 58:10 60:2 41:25 44:17,24
51:10,22 kinds 12:21 54:17 55:5 looked 33:4 45:12 46:14
52:4,11 29:15 33:3 56:16 59:8 35:20 36:15 47:7 51:13
53:5 36:16 40:15 60:16 43:14 45:15 54:16 60:16
43:12 laws 13:22 55:8 60:12 Massachusetts's
know 4:16 5:2 lawyer 19:8 looking 6:7 33:3 11:18
55:1,4 6:4,6,8,18 lawyers 22:23 35:19 37:12 material 38:3
15:15 16:25 22:25 53:10 49:25 50:1,3,8
56:4,12 19:11,13,16 lays 9:6 11:12 looks 26:23 55:11
57:7 21:8,15,16,25 25:22 43:11 51:15 matter 1:11 8:1
58:19 25:15 26:2,6 leave 10:1 58:7,8 8:2 10:22,22
59:3 26:23 30:18 leaves 62:16 lost 40:19 11:8 12:18
60:4,19 31:21 33:19 ledger 25:18 lot 6:12 23:10 36:10
40:6 41:3,4 ledgers 23:17 love 19:8 45:8,11 60:1
62:8 42:7 44:15,17 leeway 37:16 lower 21:10 63:15
45:7,25 47:14 legal 21:22 LUIS 1:3 mean 5:9,22
61:22 lens 11:6 M 19:17 26:4
53:12 L level 5:10 49:4,5 50:17 45:12 50:14
6:2,6 lab 4:6 5:2,18 limitation 55:8 61:5 63:1,6 meaning 62:11
10:4 12:12 13:3,9 limited 24:25 machines 54:2 means 34:4,19
12:10 14:19 15:5 54:2 56:5,8 54:14,21 36:9,14 60:23
14:22 16:20 17:7 line 38:24 39:24 machine-gene... 62:4 63:4
21:24 19:12 21:9 41:7 58:9,20 37:14 49:7 meant 15:1
34:21 26:4 27:21 58:21 60:23 53:3 58:3 measures 15:23
30:11 33:10 lines 15:23 majority 33:19 mechanism
38:17 40:4 42:1 line-drawing making 35:12 50:22
44:7,18 47:17 13:5 43:1 Melendez-Diaz
47:23 laboratories LISA 1:19 2:7 manner 34:4,19 1:3 3:4
52:11 40:18 48:15 manuals 19:23 mention 9:24
53:5 laboratory 3:17 litigation 11:10 Marian-type merely 48:22,25
55:1 13:8 25:1,15 23:25 26:3,8 34:2 methods 26:1
58:25 33:6,15 35:3 30:23 33:21 marked 41:18 microfiche
60:19 40:24 57:17 55:6,17 42:2,5 51:13
62:3 63:5 little 21:3 44:25 marks 15:24 Mid-Atlantic
61:19 40:2,2 live 3:14 7:13 2:5 28:20 mind 17:13
November 1:9 32:19 48:8,12 38:5 57:18 25:19 39:17
44:15,20 45:20 oral 1:11 2:2 3:6
46:24 nuns 16:24 order 9:22 37:6 54:2 56:1 62:25
O 62:21 periodically points 46:13
46:12 31:10 33:23 53:7 54:23 44:19
62:3 60:22 61:14 position 4:9,10
59:10 41:11,16 42:14 page 2:2 37:13 44:11,21 47:2 possible 15:17
26:1 officers 54:18 Palmer 11:11 phone 22:15 practical 45:8
37:8,18 official 29:4 paper 40:18 physical 32:4 45:11
oh 24:2 40:3 papers 61:15 42:13 51:16,19 precisely 39:2
49:1 ongoing 35:4 42:3,5 50:13 plain 9:8 11:9 18:17 26:3,7
52:21,24 open 12:20 55:24 players 22:17,21 33:12,21 36:13
opening 8:17 particularly plea 19:4 21:1 39:19,20 49:25
57:5 operating 51:6 15:10,22 18:7 21:14 45:20 50:5 51:21
22:13 operator 13:16 passive 8:3 48:20 53:25 presence 21:14
33:14 62:1 peculiar 53:11 plenty 6:16,22 49:15
proposes 44:11 33:21 53:3 raise 6:23 10:2 59:6
56:21 prosecution 36:5 55:17 39:2,5 60:8
34:9 50:13 63:6 38:8 40:18 49:12,13,16,17
44:9 45:13 58:4 45:16 54:18 55:5,16
24:20 prosecutor 21:4 18:5 26:9 reference 14:24
35:25 21:5,10,11 Q 29:23 30:2 referring 43:17
40:14 protocol 30:20 45:24 realms 18:23 43:25
protocols 6:20 question 10:7,14 reason 18:24 relates 41:10
prove 3:14 4:11 13:5,10 16:7 43:19 46:21,25 relay 28:14
36:22,23,23 27:2,20 34:24 reasonable relevance 24:16
public 12:13 10:3 27:6 32:21 reliable 4:20
36:22 43:18 quintessentially reciting 50:19 18:23 39:10,11
53:20 54:18 44:20 61:25 33:11,11,16,21 54:15
pull 36:12 R 3:1 55:11,12,23 5:21 6:15 8:6
22:8,17 10:21 54:1,3 55:3 50:8,12,19,22 separated 38:13
61:2 result 27:17 56:4,8,20 55:4,10,15,18 separation
39:10 48:23 rules 52:19 Scalia's 61:7 series 35:19
13:4 34:14,15 40:19 11:20 2:7 48:14,15 seven 57:18
21:9 54:7 61:17 48:19 49:10,23 shift 8:24
26:17 right 3:11 4:9 S 50:3,7,18,21 shop 24:18
30:2,11 5:9,11,12,13 S 2:1 3:1 51:22 52:3,6 shop-book
34:19 8:2,3,7 9:3,10 sample 19:10 52:18 53:17,25 23:16,16
49:9 61:3 9:13 11:1,21 26:5,11 32:9 54:3,8,11,15 shot 32:23 50:14
21:1 23:22 60:17 61:1 57:9 27:25 42:17
33:1 42:17 47:1 science 16:20 showing 9:22
15:6 44:4,10 46:1 saw 30:7,25 scientific 10:18 shown 30:12
17:7 47:9 50:17 54:23,24 11:23 12:3 34:11
25:1 61:13,19 62:20 saying 5:1 7:24 15:12 19:13,25 shows 58:10,21
61:2 rights 9:14 29:12 30:11 25:20 38:8 side 23:4 25:18
42:16,18 49:2 36:21 40:21,22 56:6 58:6 27:24
56:11 rigors 16:20 43:3 44:24 scientist 30:2 signature 5:19
25:17 Roberts 3:3 4:3 60:16 62:7 se 60:8 62:11,15
37:15 4:25 18:1 19:7 says 5:20 12:6 seal 60:8 significant
57:17 22:22 26:2,20 22:15 23:15 search 49:16 32:14
21:10 37:12 38:7 30:7 31:2 34:3 secondary 41:15 silent 7:6
59:9 39:12 44:5 38:3,6 41:24 section 25:22 simplified 52:7
46:22 47:11 41:25 47:12 see 7:21 20:25 simply 7:5,23
9:9 57:1 57:23 63:12 52:1 56:16 31:6 32:10,25 22:14 49:7
routine 10:18 Scalia 4:14 seeing 18:7 Sir 53:7
17:15,17 23:11 34:7 36:25 47:15 situations 45:15
2:6,9 24:24 25:6,10 41:24 42:4,7 sensible 55:3 six 14:1
48:18 25:16 44:10,21 42:16 43:22 sentence 21:5 skill 25:25
squiggly 58:9,20 9:23,25 subpoena 6:10
10:2 38:4 stage 40:24 step 32:7 substance 30:11 take 4:7,12 20:3
59:8 stain 12:19 Stevens 24:22 41:5 56:1 28:11,13 32:8
34:3 28:11,13 58:20 54:10,13 56:4 substances 51:23 61:1
50:15 61:2 stiff 47:14 30:22 61:8 taken 41:6 61:8
Standard 6:13 stipulate 45:23 substantial takes 57:20
56:6 standards 35:4 61:20 63:1 substitute 7:16 20:23 22:20,22
Stanford 1:15 stipulating 63:7 27:21 28:8 22:24 24:23
25:20 started 52:13 stop 7:22 sufficient 33:8 Taylor 8:11
30:4,10 14:23 17:21 38:2 61:20 55:25
32:17 22:5,6 25:5 strategic 46:19 suggested 12:17
42:24
30:21 47:20 suggestion 6:25 12:14
44:8,9,18 63:8 street 15:23 30:5 23:18 37:15
34:21
47:4
61:12,22 30:1,5 31:18 strike 50:15 sun 39:23 50:14 54:10
63:11 31:21 35:20,21 strongly 12:6 superior 46:15 55:24 57:13
28:25 29:23 studies 25:8 support 20:5,6 ten 14:12
49:19 stuff 37:23 2:9 48:18 terms 5:14 12:4
41:2 2:8 6:7,9 9:18 subject 3:15 5:17 6:12 26:4 test 5:3,8,20
13:19,21 14:1 29:16 30:18 27:21 51:14 6:14,16,17,18
17:16 19:3 63:10 26:10 20:14 25:24
28:10 44:19 37:21 14:18 27:12,13,17
State's 32:22 submit 47:17 48:9 51:13 39:13,14,22
statute 9:2,8 submitted 4:7 sworn 3:20 48:23 54:7,7
they'd 24:9 31:13 34:5 45:23 11:11,16 39:12
21:2 22:18 53:14 55:16 typical 20:24 value 45:14
42:8 46:16 today 15:19,20 15:24
20:16 59:21 top 8:10 unavailable vehicles 53:22
39:21 things 13:20 trained 38:14 28:2 verdict 34:2,3
53:8 15:14,15,16,21 transcript 60:11 uncertain 18:5 34:16,18
60:22 15:24 16:16,16 translators 22:3 underlying 50:3 verifiable 29:5
63:3 16:22 40:17 tread 15:24 50:8 52:20 verified 12:25
8:11 9:6,12,23 25:20 38:8 18:9 27:4 view 33:19
16:17 10:6,20,23 58:6 34:10 37:10 47:20
23:25 11:8,12,25 trial 3:12,19 43:8 62:12 viewed 11:6
28:25 12:3,5,10,16 9:10,16 15:7 understanding 52:24 53:22
30:8 13:5,7,13 15:4 15:13,22 17:22 14:2 25:9 views 17:15
33:24 16:14,25 17:6 19:6 20:21 34:15 59:7 vigorous 46:17
35:2,10 17:8 18:3,15 21:7 22:15 understood vigorously 8:23
36:6 19:18,22 20:12 27:25 28:3,6 12:25 61:19
43:24 20:17 22:18 31:15 32:16 62:18 W
50:4,9 24:5 25:9 28:7 33:12 36:6,7 undoubtedly wait 24:2
29:17 31:8 36:14 39:19,21 26:25 Walter 53:7
10:15 35:17 36:1,12 44:3,16 46:3 45:1 6:17 9:25
28:8 35:5 39:4,17 41:20 48:10,22 50:1 unfairness 16:12,18,19
50:17 42:10,20,25 50:5 51:21 17:19 17:8 18:11,25
61:11 43:2,5,10 52:9,23 United 1:1,12,21 24:22 26:6,6
20:4 49:11 51:10 50:22 48:16 53:12 47:22 51:14
38:22 56:15 59:23 true 10:12 18:2 University 58:13 59:24
56:23 61:18 62:6,22 31:17 32:10 15:10 40:4 wanted 27:16
62:4 51:17,20 unknown 56:3 wants 4:10 5:14
26:14 63:2 truth 12:14 unquestionably 7:17,25 17:18
38:3 54:2 thousands 5:21 16:21 17:1 6:5 20:14 57:4
28:17 tied 30:16 31:22 turns 19:15 39:11 wasn't 28:6 36:5
57:22,23 31:25 two 8:13 16:22 useful 17:3 36:6 37:25
time 6:8 17:21 22:15 30:25 usually 6:3 24:3 39:2,4,20
14:20 28:1 44:16 10 1:9 19:6 30:7
45:7 53:6 37:13 57:18
25:22 workable 17:15 10:01 31:23
29:11 40:9 45:3 100 38:5
35:18 worked 17:17 1084 17:14
37:22,22 32:5 12 50:15 51:1
38:12 working 13:17 1943 11:11
40:2,9 19:12 36:21
42:3,5 37:5 2
45:7 works 21:14 2:04 63:14
27:1 38:12 2008 1:9
51:24 worthwhile 3
wrong 14:23
7:19 9:11 911 13:16 36:4
11:2 X
21:20 x 1:2,7 32:1
29:2,13
31:2 Y
yank 23:4
41:12 year 17:14
48:9 years 14:20
62:3 20:24 44:20
8:9,18,21 Z
10:9
42:17 $
$1 22:2
60:10 07-591 1:5 3:4
