IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
BENNIE DEAN HERRING, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-513
UNITED STATES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 7, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAMELA S. KARLAN, ESQ., Stanford, Cal.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PAMELA S. KARLAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAMELA S. KARLAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first today in Case 07-513 , Herring v. United States.
Miss Karlan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAMELA S. KARLAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. KARLAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice
and may it please the Court:
In February 2004, the Dale County circuit
clerk told the local sheriff's department that the court
was recalling a warrant that had been issued earlier for
Petitioner's arrest. Having received that notice,
someone in the sheriff's department physically removed
the warrant from the file and physically took the
warrant back to the court clerk's office. But no one
either then or later in the sheriff's department ever
updated the computer file to indicate that the record
had -- that the warrant had been recalled. As a result
of that police department error, the Petitioner in this
case was subject to a warrantless arrest for which there
was no probable cause five months later.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Didn't they have
some regular system for updating the computer base? I
mean, I assume it was updated at some point.
MS. KARLAN: No. Your Honor. There was
no -- there's nothing in the record to suggest that this
department ever does, for example, what the FBI does,
which is to conduct periodic audits. Had they conducted
one, they would have discovered almost instantly what
they discovered five months later, which was there was
no warrant in this case. So this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So people who are,
you know, the warrant is served, they're arrested, they
go to trial, they're in jail, their name still shows up
as having a warrant out for their arrest.
MS. KARLAN: We don't know, Mr. Chief
Justice, because this is a department that as far as the
record reflects conducts no audits of any kind to update
its files. And if you look at page 41 and page 60 of
the joint appendix, one of the things you'll discover
about this department is that everyone in the department
has access to the physical place warrants are kept.
They're kept in several different places in the office.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well then, how did
this warrant clerk, I guess is what I'd call her,
discover the error? She discovered it within 10 or 15
minutes, right.
MS. KARLAN: She discovered it because what
happened is a clerk in another police department called
and said, is there a warrant for Petitioner's arrest.
She looked at the computer list on her computer and said
yes. Then this other warrant clerk said, please fax us
a physical copy of the warrant. So she went to the file
where the warrant should have been. It wasn't there.
She went to another file. The warrant wasn't there.
She then called the court clerk's office and discovered
that they had recalled the warrant which was back in
their records five months earlier.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why did the first --
first person in that scenario need a physical copy of
the warrant?
MS. KARLAN: The record doesn't reflect
that, but she simply I guess wanted to verify that there
actually was a warrant because they were picking
Petitioner up in a different county.
JUSTICE ALITO: Does your argument depend on
the quality of the recordkeeping in this particular
department? I thought your argument would apply even if
this department had excellent recordkeeping procedures
but nevertheless made a mistake in this instance.
MS. KARLAN: That's correct, Justice Alito.
Our view is, just as is true with respect to probable
cause, the fact that 99 percent of a department's
arrests are with probable cause doesn't mean that when
they arrest someone without probable cause you say,
well, you get one bite at the apple or a sort of "good
enough for government work" theory.
JUSTICE ALITO: You're not asking for
Arizona v. Evans to be overruled are you.
MS. KARLAN: No. We're asking to you apply
Arizona v. Evans. And if I could give an answer to the
question the Chief Justice was asking earlier that comes
from Arizona v. Evans, what happened in Arizona v. Evans
-- and Justice Stevens mentions this in his dissent
there -- is the clerk discovered there, the court clerk
discovered, that the warrant that had been, that she had
verified, had in fact been recalled. And so what they
instantly did is they checked their files, and they
discovered four other warrants from that same day that
had been recalled but that were still in their files.
Here we didn't have anything done after they
discovered the error. They discovered this error and,
as they say, have gone on their merry way. There's
nothing in this record --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there was
something done in this particular case, though, right?
The warrant clerk notified -- was it the Coffee County
people?
MS. KARLAN: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- that the warrant
-- that the information she had given 10 minutes before
was inaccurate.
MS. KARLAN: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. And
that indicates part of what we're concerned about here,
which is this is a department that was built for speed,
not for accuracy.
JUSTICE ALITO: But none of that matters for
your argument, does it?
MS. KARLAN: Oh, no.
JUSTICE ALITO: You want to make it -- you
want to draw a clear line between errors by -- by
clerical court employees versus errors by police
employees.
MS. KARLAN: That's correct. We think
that's the most workable argument, because what we want
is a system in which suppression hearings can be
conducted expeditiously based on the facts of particular
cases.
JUSTICE ALITO: How expeditious would it be
-- suppose there's negligence on the part of both a
court employee and a police department employee. What
is the judge supposed to do in deciding the suppression
motion? Is this a comparative negligence determination.
MS. KARLAN: I don't think it would be
exactly a comparative negligence determination. I think
it -- that raises a difficult question and the way I
would approach that question is to perhaps use some of
what Justice Kennedy talked about in Hudson as a
causation approach. That is, if but for the negligence
of the police department there would have been --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought negligence is
irrelevant here. I think if the police department was
wrong, even if they had been very careful but for some
reason or other they made a mistake -- so you're arguing
for shear causality, not for negligence. If negligence
made the difference then we'd have to go into these
factors that you say are very difficult to calculate.
MS. KARLAN: Well, Justice Scalia, I was
answering Justice Alito's question and if I could just
give a little bit of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I know you were answering
his question, but you want to answer it in a way that's
consistent with your argument here.
MS. KARLAN: Well, it is, Justice Scalia.
So let me explain why it's consistent, which is our
position is if police department error causes an
unconstitutional arrest then you should suppress
evidence, but if both the police were negligent and the
clerk was negligence and the police department's
negligence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You've injected the word
"negligence."
MS. KARLAN: Okay, let me take the word
"negligence" out then. If the police error didn't cause
the discovery of the evidence --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Alone, but --
MS. KARLAN: -- that's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- there is dual
causality.
MS. KARLAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It isn't a matter of simple
negligence.
MS. KARLAN: No, that's correct. That's
correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is it going to
keep --
JUSTICE ALITO: How are -- how are you going
to determine whether there's error without determining
whether there's negligence? Suppose the court clerk
calls up the police department and says the warrant is
still outstanding, and in fact it's not. And it sends
them over a physical copy of a warrant, but that warrant
has been withdrawn. Now, the police could always take
additional steps: They could send someone over to check
the records, to look at the court docket to make sure
that the warrant had not been withdrawn. So there would
be causality, but it would not determine what they
should --
MS. KARLAN: There would be no police error
there.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- what their duty was.
How are you going to determine where this error should
be -- should be assigned?
MS. KARLAN: Because in that case there
would be no police error. What this Court held in Evans
is that police departments are entitled to rely on the
representations of court clerks that there are warrants.
So if the court clerk erroneously sends a warrant over,
the police are not required to look behind that warrant,
just as they're not required in Evans.
JUSTICE ALITO: Let me give you another
example. Suppose that the court clerk calls up and says
-- it leaves a message, gives a message to somebody in
the police department. And they memorialize that, and
they say "called up." And let's say the warrant number
is the same as the docket number of this case. So the
court employee says -- writes down "Called up," says,
"Warrant quashed in warrant, in case 07-513." The court
-- the police department has a record of the call, and
they say, "Received call from court clerk. Warrant to
be quashed. Warrant quashed in case 07-531." And so
the 513 is not quashed; the person is arrested. Now,
who caused that? You have to have a hearing?
MS. KARLAN: The police -- the police
department person caused that by writing down the wrong
number.
JUSTICE ALITO: How do you know that the
police department wrote down the wrong number?
MS. KARLAN: Well, it's the same question as
--
JUSTICE ALITO: How do you know what number
was --
MS. KARLAN: Well, it's the same question as
in Evans: How do we know who made the mistake? That
question, just like the question -- is a question on
which you're going to have to hold a hearing because
Evans says if it was court error, there is no
suppression; and our position is, if it was police
error, there is. But that's a very manageable hearing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just so I have your theory
firmly in mind, you would say there is police error even
if what happened was that there was an unpredictable and
unavoidable computer glitch, no negligence on anybody's
part? The computer simply malfunctioned, got it wrong.
It wasn't negligence. You would still say that that is
police error, and you would say that that counts against
the admission of --
MS. KARLAN: That's correct. As long as
it's police error, it counts against the police.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why, if there is no
negligence? Why do you need to argue that and why do
you argue that? I mean doesn't there have to be at
least negligence on somebody's part?
MS. KARLAN: Well, here's the problem:
There are two kinds of negligence you might have; that
is, you might have the negligence of an individual
employee, or what you might have is a decision to use a
shoddy recordkeeping system that doesn't catch those
errors. So the question is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, either of those
things are negligence or worse.
MS. KARLAN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: So what I didn't understand
is why you would charge the police with anything or
suppress a warrant where there was a mistake but no one
was negligent or worse.
MS. KARLAN: Well, we have had some
difficulty finding any reported cases in which there is
a police error of the kind of computer glitch that was
just hypothesized. That is where the machines --
JUSTICE BREYER: But what you argued for --
MS. KARLAN: Yes. What --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- you said, it should be
suppressed even if no one is negligent or worse. And I
have trouble seeing why you're suppressing a warrant
where no one does anything wrong at all.
MS. KARLAN: Well, part of what I'm trying
to get at in my answer to your question is it's unclear
in that situation whether anyone has done something
wrong; that is, whether somebody in the police
department programmed the police department computer --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's just assume the
hypothetical -- the hypothetical: The computer
malfunctions.
MS. KARLAN: Well, you could have an act of
God exception to exclusionary rule, if you wanted to,
but this case doesn't ask you to do that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm sure a computer might
be compared to God, but let's --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE STEVENS: Could I ask this question
--
MS. KARLAN: It's more powerful sometimes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Could I ask this question?
You're saying that the question is whether anybody did
anything wrong at all. This is not undisputed, that
this person was illegally arrested? The arrest itself
violated the Fourth Amendment.
MS. KARLAN: There is no question that as a
matter of fact --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The question is whether it
can be justified.
MS. KARLAN: Yes. This was a warrantless
arrest without probable cause. And the question is:
Does the government have some sort of affirmative
defense as to why it should be allowed to use this?
Now, in Evans --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a separate
question. It may be an illegal arrest, but the question
is the separate one of whether or not you exclude the
evidence collected incident to that arrest. And we
have, in several cases, separated the two questions, and
I guess it's difficult for me to see if no one has done
anything wrong, no one, why you would suppress the
evidence in that case.
MS. KARLAN: Well, that case of course is
not this case, and you might want to leave open the
question of the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but you have
this difficulty: Do we have to get into negligence, or
should we assume, as I understand to be your theory, as
Justice Breyer put it, that you would still suppress the
evidence when no one has done anything wrong?
MS. KARLAN: We are asking in this case for
you to suppress when someone has done something wrong.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But how do you know? How
do you know? That's the problem.
MS. KARLAN: Well, we do know that someone
did something wrong here, because we know --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we want an answer --
MS. KARLAN: No, I'm trying to answer --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We want an answer to the
question.
MS. KARLAN: No, I'm trying --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's assume no one did
anything wrong.
MS. KARLAN: I know. I'm trying to answer
that question.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- because this bears on
the fact of why are we doing this at all.
MS. KARLAN: No. I'm trying to answer that
question, and the point I wanted to make is: This case
asks for a narrow rule, but the question that you may
also want to be thinking about here is how to have a
workable suppression hearing. And if you require
showings of different levels of fault, rather than
asking was this police-generated error, the suppression
hearings are going to be somewhat more cumbersome. So
you have a choice.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly. You give
something, you get something. If you adopt a negligence
theory, the --
MS. KARLAN: We would be happen with the
negligence theory.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the noose is not as
wide, but on the other hand it's a lot harder to
calculate whether you -- every case involves an inquiry
into whether there's police negligence or not.
MS. KARLAN: That's exactly what I'm --
JUSTICE SCALIA: A much easier rule, was
there a warrant or not? If there wasn't, end of the --
end of the inquiry.
MS. KARLAN: Well, that's exactly why I --
why I said I think the easier rule for judges faced with
suppression hearings is a rule that says --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I don't know what
the underlying law is here. I mean -- I guess it's
little weird, but what happens if the policeman arrests
the wrong person, but it's nobody's fault? You know,
the person was pretending to be his brother.
MS. KARLAN: Well, that's like --
JUSTICE BREYER: Or the mother said it's
John and it's really Joe. And so, the policeman wasn't
at fault. They arrest the wrong person. I guess that's
happened in history --
MS. KARLAN: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- but do they suppress
things then? I wouldn't think so --
MS. KARLAN: Well, there are two different
--
JUSTICE BREYER: -- but maybe they do.
MS. KARLAN: There are two different kinds
of cases where police arrest people: One set of cases
where the policeman is arresting on the basis of
probable cause, and there, there's a lot of room for
error that is based on the facts. The mother told him
it was Joe when it was really John. That's good enough,
good enough, because that's probable cause.
JUSTICE BREYER: But do we suppress?
MS. KARLAN: No, you do not --
JUSTICE BREYER: We do not? Okay.
MS. KARLAN: There was not even a Fourth --
JUSTICE BREYER: So there's no reason then,
if we don't suppress when there's no error in the part
of the policeman, none, it was just a weird
circumstance, then I don't understand why we would
suppress here. And nor do I understand why you have to
argue this because I thought it's clear here that there
is error, and it was negligently caused. There were
four months that went by without anybody doing anything
about this mistake.
MS. KARLAN: No. That's correct. If I can
just say one thing that will make this perhaps a little
clearer, Justice Breyer, you would not even find a
Fourth Amendment violation in the first place in the
hypothetical you gave because there was probable cause
to arrest.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't there probable cause
here?
MS. KARLAN: Probable cause to do what?
JUSTICE SCALIA: He thought he had a
warrant; he had probable cause to arrest.
MS. KARLAN: There is no such thing as
probable cause to believe there's a warrant. You
yourself in Hudson said it's a bright-line rule. Either
there's a warrant or there isn't. Here there was no
warrant.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's just
rephrasing it. It's probable cause based on the
existence of a warrant, and it turns out to be there is
a mistake in the warrant.
MS. KARLAN: This Court has never said that
before, which is it's not probable cause to believe
there's a crime because there's a warrant. It's --
you've always separated those two lines of cases for --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't seem to make
sense, though. Why should we separate the two?
MS. KARLAN: Well, because here --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If the policeman is
mistaken about whether he saw this guy picking
somebody's pocket, he's mistaken about that, and in that
case, the search is -- the product of the search is
admitted. In the other case he's mistaken about whether
there was a warrant. Why do you want to draw a line
between those two?
MS. KARLAN: Well, for two reasons: One is,
even in the probable cause case, if the reason he
thought there was probable cause is another officer told
him there was probable cause and that officer was wrong,
this Court said in Leon you continue to suppress. Here,
this police officer was told by other police personnel
that there was a warrant, and there wasn't. So it's a
case just like the cases post-Leon -- you suppress when
the chain of information is fatally flawed by police
error, which is what happened here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you would impose
a burden on the officer on the street serving a warrant?
When he gets the call saying there's a warrant, he's
supposed to say, "Are you sure? Did you double-check
with the clerk? When was the last time they updated the
computer system? I don't want to go through all this if
the evidence is going to be suppressed." At every chain
in command, you would impose that burden.
MS. KARLAN: No, I would not, Mr. Chief
Justice, because if you announce that police error is
going to lead to the suppression of evidence, the police
will do a better job of maintaining their records.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but I mean I
don't know what the situation is like --
MS. KARLAN: And then you won't have this
problem.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't know what
the situation is like in Dale County. They probably
don't have the latest version of WordPerfect, or
whatever it is. They are probably making do with
whatever they can under their budget and doing the best
they can.
MS. KARLAN: But there's not a Barney Fife
defense to the violation of the Fourth Amendment either.
If a department is having its records kept the way they
are keeping them here, then suppression is the only
thing that tells them: You're going to have to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you said this
wasn't anything in the record about what type of program
they might have, whether they were updated. They found
the mistake in ten minutes.
MS. KARLAN: Which suggests if they had been
doing a good job of maintaining their records all along,
this violation never would have occurred.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what's the
justification for drawing a distinction between a court
employee and everybody who works for the police
department? Suppose the person who makes the mistake in
the police department is a -- a person who holds a
unionized position where advancement is based purely on
seniority, or it's a civil service position where the
person is -- is totally protected from any sort of
adverse job consequences as a result of displeasure
about or pleasure about how the job is being -- being
performed.
And what's the justification for drawing a
distinction between errors committed by those two
employees just based on where they fit in the
organizational box?
MS. KARLAN: Well, three things: One is the
police themselves are often unionized and protected from
retaliation.
Second --
JUSTICE ALITO: What if it's not a police
officer; it is not a law enforcement officer? It is a
clerical employee, or it's a computer guy.
MS. KARLAN: Well, I think that the clearest
line is inside the police and outside, and let me give
you a couple of reasons why. The first reason --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, one is that you --
you are stuck with the Arizona v. Evans, which says if
it's the court --
MS. KARLAN: Well, if it's the court, yes;
but I -- I was going to give some reasons why the police
department should be treated as an integrated whole.
One reason why is in many departments
officers, sworn officers, who are on desk duty for
physical disabilities and the like, perform clerical
tasks.
The second is on the record in this case.
We don't know whether it was a sworn officer who removed
the warrant from the file or it was a clerk, and there's
no way of finding that out now.
A third reason, if I could just point to
this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MS. KARLAN: -- this Court, for just a
moment, is clerical personnel, support personnel --
there is a reason they are called "support personnel".
They support the mission of the office, and here this
office decided to maintain its records in a particular
way and to have this quick reference file and the like,
presumably to support --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the Coffee
County people aren't called "support officers" for the
Dale County police.
MS. KARLAN: They are support for the
police, and this Court has --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now you keep saying
this when you did this in your brief. You just call
everybody "police," "police," "police," when the
question is whether there's a distinction between the
Coffee County police and the Dale County police for
purposes of applying the exclusionary rule.
MS. KARLAN: This Court, at least since
Elkins, has recognized that police departments often
operate across the board. If I could point to Leon
itself, in Leon the search was conducted by California
municipal police, and the evidence was used in Federal
court.
And this Court never suggested, not even for
a minute, that the fact that the evidence was obtained
by State-level -- local-level police and used in a
Federal prosecution was relevant to the question whether
or not it should be suppressed. Because what the Court
is trying to do in the exclusionary rule, as I
understand it, is to deter future violations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's crucial to your case
--
MS. KARLAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- really, that you -- that
the police will not keep good records unless -- unless
we let the criminals go.
MS. KARLAN: That they need a powerful
incentive.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's the theory of
the exclusionary rule as --
MS. KARLAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- as has been expressed in
writings in some of our prior cases. Things have
changed a whole lot since we adopted the exclusionary
rule, and I think it's quite -- policing has become much
more professional, and I think it's quite unrealistic to
think that if we don't adopt the rule that you -- that
you propose, police -- police departments will just
willy-nilly not keep track of warrants. I -- I just
don't think that's true. That's not professional
policing, and -- and I think to say -- to apply the --
the severe remedy that you propose in this -- in this
area at this date seems to me excessive.
MS. KARLAN: Well, we don't think this is a
severe remedy, and we think that the professionalism of
the police is in substantial part a response to the
message that the exclusionary rule sends, which is
either you professionalize your police departments or
the evidence they obtain is going to be suppressed;
either you maintain good records or the reliance on
those records is going to lead to suppression.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't think that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We don't know if these
records are good, bad, or indifferent. As far as this
record shows, this could be an isolated incident, or it
could be typical of what goes on. We just don't know.
MS. KARLAN: It could be, and if I can just
point to -- if you look at the Government's brief at
page 48, they talk about how the FBI maintains its
"Wanted" lists now. And they show that due to a list of
reforms they were able to cut the error rate there from
about 6 percent to about 3 percent. None of those
reforms, limited access to entry, periodic audits, is
done here. And the last available published data, which
we cite in our brief about -- about Alabama, is that
they had about a 13 percent error rate. That is, 13
percent of the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you are back to
arguing that there was negligence, and that that's
pertinent.
MS. KARLAN: Well, in this case there was
negligence, and you need not go any further than that.
If the Court has no more questions, I'll reserve the
remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Miss Karlan.
Mr. Dreeben, we'll hear now from you.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The exclusionary rule under this Court's
cases has always been a balance between the interest in
achieving some deterrence of police misconduct and the
high cost of excluding probative evidence of criminal
activity. The exclusionary rule does not put the error
back in the box. It does not correct it. It serves
only as incentives for future compliance to avoid future
Fourth Amendment errors.
In this case, where nothing is shown other
than a negligent and isolated clerical error in the
maintenance of warrants, there is no showing that
suppression of evidence will achieve the kind of
appreciable deterrence that this Court has said is
necessary before the exclusionary rule is applied.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do we assume on the
basis of the record that there is negligence in this
case?
MR. DREEBEN: The district court did find
that there was negligence. There is very little in the
record, Mr. Chief Justice, that explains precisely what
did happen. But I would take issue with my colleague's
comment that the record shows that there were no
auditing procedures. The record simply was not made on
whether there were auditing procedures.
What the district court did find based on
testimony is that the Dale County Clerk's Office and the
Dale County Sheriff's Office both had a reliable system
of recordkeeping on which law enforcement could rely.
That's a finding of the district court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, Ms. Karlan made
the point -- and I'd like to get your response to it --
that if we adopt something that depends on the showing
of negligence, that that will require extensive hearings
in every case into exactly what their computer update
system was, and so on.
MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, I actually
think that negligence alone should not be enough to
justify suppression, because it would not produce the
appreciable form of deterrence that this Court has said
is warranted. But I also think that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I interrupt you there?
I mean, why do you say that? I mean, we -- we have --
just getting outside the criminal law for a minute, we
-- we've got a whole system of personal liability law in
which the theory is that, in effect, requiring
compensation for negligence, even though it is not an
act of bad faith or malice, is -- is going to affect
conduct. Why do you assume it will not affect conduct
here?
MR. DREEBEN: I'm not sure that it won't
affect conduct to some degree, Justice Souter. I think
the exclusionary rule requires far more than saying that
it might affect conduct, and I think that what the Court
should look at --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Don't you think it's
probable that it will affect conduct? I mean, if the
police know that they are going to lose the case because
they are engaging in a negligent or objectively
unreasonable way in -- in relation to their
warrant-keeping, they are going to be more careful.
MR. DREEBEN: I think the incremental change
in police behavior will be modest at best, and I think
this is crucial to my view of the case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They -- they won't know
that they are going to lose a case. What they will know
is that if they happen to arrest someone whom they
should not have arrested anyway, they won't be able to
prosecute him, right?
MR. DREEBEN: That's precisely so.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So they are saving
themselves nothing. I mean, this person would not have
been stopped. I mean, if the difference was we -- we
caught a criminal and we could have convicted him except
because of the clerical error we can't, but that's not
the situation. They would never have found this fellow
but for the clerical error.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Scalia, if you take it
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: But they -- but they also
--
MR. DREEBEN: -- if you take it --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But they also, as in this
case, in the course of -- of committing their -- their
negligent arrest find evidence of a crime.
MR. DREEBEN: They do. But from an ex ante
perspective, Justice Souter, they can't know that, but
they do have --
JUSTICE SOUTER: They can't know that, but
we all know, as a practical matter, that that's why
police want the -- the greatest scope to the arrest
power.
MR. DREEBEN: No, I think that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Because in the course of
doing incidental searches, they find things. They know
that, and we know that.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Souter, what I think
it's important for the Court to know is that the
police have ample incentives as it stands to try to make
their recordkeeping systems as accurately as possible.
The police do not have an interest in believing that
there is an outstanding warrant for someone's arrest
when there is not.
The first reason is that an arrest situation
is a highly dangerous encounter for police officers.
It's not one to be undertaken lightly. That's why this
Court has rules that govern searches incident to arrest
in order to remove potential weapons from suspects. The
police don't want to convert what would be an otherwise
routine traffic stop or no stop at all into a felony
encounter that could go bad for all concerned.
Second, there is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there a 1983 violation
here?
MR. DREEBEN: On the facts of this case,
Justice Kennedy, I would not say there is 1983
liability. It's a litigable issue whether there would
be the potential for a plaintiff to show, as the
defendant in this case did not try to show, that there
was a degree of deliberate indifference to a need to
have a reliable recordkeeping system such that some
official would be personally liable for the failure to
have that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose if the concern
were that the police would become sloppy, then a 1983
suit would be more likely?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes. I think a 1983 suit, and
there is ample evidence that many such suits have been
brought, and we cite cases in our brief and the
Petitioner cites cases in his brief.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Dreeben, can I go back
to your point you were just making. What incentive does
the police department have to withdraw warrants that
have been cancelled? Why not just leave them there? As
long as they are there, it would justify an arrest.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, that assumes, I think,
contrary to this Court's assumption of good faith on
governmental actors --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If you put aside good
faith for the moment. If you just think in terms of
incentives of officers, would they not have an incentive
just to leave everything there?
MR. DREEBEN: No. There are three reasons
why they would not. The first is the danger factor, as
I mentioned.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The existence or
nonexistence of the warrant doesn't affect the danger.
MR. DREEBEN: Oh, it certainly does, because
it converts what would otherwise be not a stop at all or
a reasonable suspicion stop into a felony arrest. And
when the police are undertaking an arrest, this Court
has recognized that suspects often have an incentive to
escape or to use weapons to resist --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the incentive exists
whether there is a warrant in his pocket or not.
MR. DREEBEN: If there is no warrant, there
will be no arrest. And that's why the police have an
incentive to clean up the records so that they don't
send out the police on warrant situations when there is
no warrant.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dreeben, what you've
said about the danger to the arresting office -- officer
and so they don't undertake an arrest lightly, doesn't
fit with the facts of this case. This was a police
officer who really wanted to go after the defendant. He
expected -- he suspected defendant was a bad guy. So
that's how this all started. So he called his own
department, do we have any warrant, and then the next
county's department. But this was an officer who wanted
to go after the defendant.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I
assume that the Court will make its decision not based
on the conduct of Officer Anderson in this case, but in
an assessment nationwide of whether the exclusionary
rule is necessary because the police lack incentives to
keep warrant systems up to date. And I'm giving reasons
why institutionally the police do have that incentive
and, therefore, undertake those kinds of efforts.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And there are three
reasons. One is to reduce the incidence of arrests, so
they don't have the hazard of felony arrests.
Number two is?
MR. DREEBEN: The second reason is police
resources. It takes a lot of time and energy to
undertake a felony arrest. Many jurisdictions have
dedicated warrant forces which seek to serve outstanding
warrants, and they don't want to spend their time doing
it on warrants that have been recalled.
Similarly, in a case like this, the police
happened to find drugs on Petitioner's person and a gun
in his car, but if they had found nothing and taken him
down to the station house and booked him, that would
have been taking two police officers off the street for
an afternoon, wasting their resources so that they're
not engaged in the kind of protection of the community
that the police force wants to do.
And the third reason is that it does not
create community goodwill to undertake arrests when
people do not have warrants and simply because of a
mistake in police records they're hauled downtown.
That's the kind of thing that creates friction between
the police and communities.
JUSTICE BREYER: There is one question I
have in my mind, and it's the only factor I thought of
hypothetically that cuts against you. This is the
argument and I'd like you to respond to it.
I take everything you said as so. I'll
assume all that. And so I'd still say the rule, the
basic rule of suppression, putting Leon to the side,
basic rule is -- the opposite of Holmes: If the
constable blunders, you suppress the evidence. Okay.
Now, our prior case -- here we have a case
where the constable blundered. I grant you, not the
arresting officer. It was a different policeman, and it
was a different form of error. But five months this
thing -- this warrant had been recalled five months
earlier and you agree that it was negligent. Therefore,
the constable blundered. And the virtue of our earlier
case where we said don't suppress, it wasn't the
constable who blundered. So I see an absolutely clear
line: If the constable blunders you suppress; if it's
somebody else who blundered, you don't.
Now, every time I've tried to think of a
substitute for that clear line, I've run into trouble.
I've been sitting in my chambers with my law clerks and
we've tried out five substitutes, and I can't find one
decent substitute that isn't filled with problems.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: What is your substitute?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, my first answer, Justice
Breyer, is that this Court's exclusionary rule
jurisprudence already draws a number of careful lines
based on the balance that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. Well, I'm
overstating my point. What I'm really driving at and
trying to show you is you, if you want to have a
different rule than within the prior case, remember the
one where it wasn't the police that blundered, you have
to come up with some rule. And I want to know what your
rule is.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, the rule, to state it
simply, that I think should govern this case is: An
isolated and negligent police clerical error in the
maintenance of warrant records should not lead to
suppression. And the reason for that is there are ample
incentive for the police to attempt to correct their own
records such that the exclusionary rule would not
approve --
JUSTICE BREYER: So now we have -- let's
think about that. The special rule is now we have the
Leon exception and now we have a new exception, and the
new exception is called for isolated police clerical
errors. Well, that's going to be interesting, I
suspect.
The first thing you'll have when you try to
impose your rule is you will have the defense attorneys
throughout the city going in to see if it's an isolated
error. And they will, of course, have a right to decide
whether or not this is the only such error, whether
there are other clerical errors, how often they occur,
what the -- is that an administrable rule?
MR. DREEBEN: I think it's highly
administrable. It doesn't create that many problems.
This exclusionary rule hearing is an illustration. The
warrant clerk for Dale County was on the witness stand.
The warrant clerk for Coffee County was on the witness
stand. The arresting officer was on the witness stand.
All of those people were asked, do these errors occur
with frequency? They said: They don't; our system is
reliable.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And if there were
pervasive deficiencies, I assume that's exactly what we
would inquire about under 1983?
MR. DREEBEN: That's correct, Justice
Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And would you add 1983 as
number four to your list?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, I would add number -- I
would add 1983 possible liability as an additional
incentive, just as it was remarked in Hudson that it
provides for additional incentive for --
JUSTICE BREYER: One other question.
Suppose that the error here consisted not of a computer,
but rather Joe, who is the policeman, has a partner
called Sam, and Sam told Joe that this is Harry Smith,
when negligently it wasn't Harry Smith? It was Joe
Smith.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I mean does that
count as a clerical error if, in fact, it's the man's
partner who tells him this negligently?
MR. DREEBEN: I'm with Miss Karlan on this
one. I don't think that's a Fourth Amendment violation
at all. I think under Hill v. California --
JUSTICE BREYER: Negligent. It's Negligent
police work.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes. It's a mistake.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's negligent error.
You mean we don't suppress the negligent errors of the
partners who, after all, say, let's arrest this man over
here, and through negligence they have got the wrong
man? We don't suppress?
MR. DREEBEN: I think that that's a very
close case, and I don't think that this Court --
JUSTICE BREYER: There must be millions --
not millions, but there must have been cases where two
policemen or one policeman goes off to arrest someone
and negligently arrests the wrong man. And when he does
that and does a search, we don't suppress.
MR. DREEBEN: What we know about that from
this Court's cases is that if one police officer has a
warrant and it's, he obtained it based on an affidavit,
that's purely a bare-bones --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's Leon. I'm not
thinking that.
MR. DREEBEN: No, it's actually not Leon.
It's Whiteley versus Warden. And I'm positing a warrant
that was completely based on a bare-bones affidavit. So
it would not pass the Leon test.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not thinking of a
warrant. I'm thinking of a policeman who has a warrant
for Jack Smith and he goes to arrest Jack Brown because
through negligence he went to the wrong house. Now,
under those circumstances would we suppress the drugs
that happen to be found in Jack's house.
MR. DREEBEN: I don't think it's so clear
from this Court's cases.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there must have been
a lot of cases.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, not in this Court.
JUSTICE BREYER: But what about the lower
courts? What have they done?
MR. DREEBEN: I'm not so aware that there
are so many of them in the lower courts where it's
negligence. Most often the kind of mistakes that's
made, the courts say it's within the realm of probable
cause if it's a reasonable mistake. If it's an
unreasonable mistake, negligent mistake, I would be
prepared to say that the lower courts are probably today
suppressing. And this Court doesn't have to decide
whether that's correct in order to decide this case.
This case --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do we use the word or the
phrase "good faith" in writing the opinion if we write
it your way?
MR. DREEBEN: I don't think the Court needs
to use the word "good faith." The Court used the words
"good faith" in Leon. It's repeated it in all of its
so-called good faith exclusionary rule exceptions.
We're talking about an objective rule, and the line that
I think that the Court should draw today is between
isolated negligent errors and errors that result from a
more systematic or widespread pattern, the kind that
Justice O'Connor referred to in her concurrence in
Arizona v. Evans.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You would allow all of that
inquiry every time there's a motion to exclude. That
would not just be the basis for 1983. You still want
negligence inquiry.
MR. DREEBEN: I don't want it. I'm saying
that the Court doesn't have to reach the issue today of
whether a widespread pattern of errors or complete
neglect --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Thank you. That's a little
different.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes. That's not to say --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What about reaching -- what
about reaching your standard in cases in which the
arrest is wrong, not because there's no warrant, but
because there's just slightly less than probable cause?
If there are isolated incidents of that are we going
to -- are we going to say that in fact that does not
violate the Fourth Amendment?
MR. DREEBEN: I think that's a very
different -- well, whether it violates the Fourth
Amendment or not would turn on whether there is in fact
probable cause. If there is no probable cause, and I
understood your question, Justice Souter --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No. We're starting with
the assumption that there is a violation of the -- I
think we're starting with background law at this point
that there is a violation of the Fourth Amendment if
there is an arrest without probable cause or without a
valid warrant.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: The warrant itself may be
subject to attack, but at least that's sort of the front
line of our objective reasonableness inquiry. And
you're making a dent in the warrant requirement for
isolated incidents, and I don't see why we can't or why
coherence would not require us to make the same dent in
the probable cause requirement for equally isolated
mistakes.
MR. DREEBEN: I think it's simply a
different inquiry, Justice Souter, because, as I tried
to explain, in this area the Court can note a number of
incentives that law enforcement has to keep its warrant
databases accurate and up to speed.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Dreeben, can I ask a
background question? How frequent does the issue in
this case arise?
MR. DREEBEN: In my experience, Justice
Stevens, not that frequently.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's my understanding,
too.
MR. DREEBEN: And I think --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It seems to me the case
may have more symbolic importance than practical
importance.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think that the
practical importance of it and the legal importance of
it is what, kind of a balance is the Court going to
strike under the exclusionary rule. We heard a lot from
Petitioner today about how the exclusionary rule would
help make police engage in better practices. We heard
nothing about the costs of the exclusionary rule.
Compared to, for example, to --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Are there any cases where
-- this is a drug peddler here that was caught. Are
there any cases involving violent criminals that have
been affected by the outcome of this case?
MR. DREEBEN: Some in the lower courts have
involved violent crime, and I think this case would look
and feel very different if evidence of a murder had been
discovered in the car. And that just accentuates the
point that the exclusionary rule comes with a price to
society. It's not free.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Dreeben, if we adopt
your formulation that isolated negligence doesn't count,
is it clear that that's all there was in this case?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, that's all that the
district court found. The district court had evidence
and made a finding that there was no pattern of
violations like this, that the system of recordkeeping
was generally reliable. This is the findings of the
district court that are on page 17a and 18a of the
Petitioner appendix. The district court concluded:
"There is no credible evidence of routine problems with
disposing of warrants and the warrant clerk herself
could not recall other instances like this."
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, if Miss Karlan's
figures are correct in Alabama there would be
suppression.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, there was no record made
whatsoever on what Alabama's overall --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No. I said if her figures
are correct and there's a 13 percent error rate either
in the State of Alabama or at least in the department
involved that we'd have suppression there.
MR. DREEBEN: Unless -- if the Court is
prepared to say that the exclusionary rule is going to
function differently on a State by State basis depending
on the statewide error rate, which I think is an unusual
thing for the Court to do --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it's going to
function -- even on your theory, it's going to function
differently on a department to department basis
depending on the error rate.
MR. DREEBEN: Upon a -- Not just upon a
showing of an error rate, but upon a showing that a
particular recordkeeping system that produced an error
was conducted in a manner so that you could say much
more than negligence was involved here.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, if you've got a 13
percent error rate I think you've got a pretty good
prima facie case.
MR. DREEBEN: You do. I would concede you
have a good prima facie case. I would want to know more
to know what that really means because with a lot of
these statistics --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the fact is unless the
"more" showed that they were getting a 13 percent error
rate in a negligence-free system, you would have
suppression there and you would not have suppression
there in the town next door or the county next door or
the State next door.
MR. DREEBEN: If the Court adopts a rule
that says that a showing of more than isolated
negligence would justify suppression, you're correct. I
would note, though, that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But I thought that
basically was the distinction that you were arguing for.
MR. DREEBEN: No. I think I clarified to
Justice Scalia that I think all the Court needs to
decide today is that an isolated negligent error in
police recordkeeping should not result in suppression.
It should not hold today because it's not confronted
with today --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But I take it if you're not
accepting -- if you're not accepting -- I mean, you're
not accepting the proposition that the 13 percent error
rate which is not somehow shown to be non-negligent
should have a different result, you are saying in the 13
percent case we're still not going to suppress.
MR. DREEBEN: I would reserve the right to
argue that the exclusionary rule's costs outweigh its
benefits even if that is shown in a particular case
because there are a myriad of other reasons why the
police would have an incentive to improve that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But if you -- if you were
to make that argument and it came down to that bald a
proposition, I assume you would come in with some kind
of evidentiary basis to tell us exactly what the cost
is. And you have spoken of the cost today. You have
not spoken of the benefit and the value of having
relatively error-free arrest recordkeeping. But I
haven't heard anything about the unreasonable cost of
the exclusionary rule --
MR. DREEBEN: Well I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- beyond the record.
MR. DREEBEN: It's manifested in it every
case in which reliable probative evidence is suppressed.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Sure, sure it is. But that
does not even get us to, as it were, to half the
equation. We want to be know how much of that there is
and we want to be able to measure against that the value
that society is getting by requiring valid arrest
warrants and in a probable cause case by requiring
probable cause. And you can't just walk in and say,
well, there's a cost. We know there's a cost.
MR. DREEBEN: I don't think, Justice Souter,
that the Court has ever looked for an empirical count of
how many cases.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Don't you think we should
if we are in effect -- if you are making what sounds to
me like an empirical argument -- there is a cost to
society, cases are being lost, criminals are going free
-- don't you think that we ought to have a factual basis
to know what that cost is?
MR. DREEBEN: If the Court wants one in
order to justify the exclusionary rule, then it probably
needs to go back to scratch and start all over again.
JUSTICE SOUTER: We've done an exclusionary
rule now and in effect you are arguing for an exception
to it because the cost is too great, and it seems to me
the burden is on you to tell us what the cost figure is.
MR. DREEBEN: I will say this, Justice
Souter. If the cost is very low because very few cases
result in suppression, then deterrence is also very low
because there are very few cases in which evidence is
being suppressed.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But if you take that
argument to the extreme, we won't have an exclusionary
rule at all, I suppose.
MR. DREEBEN: But my argument today does not
require the Court to take that step at all because this
is an area in which there is a local geography of
incentive pertaining to the accuracy of warrants that
allows the Court to conduct the balance in a way
distinct from what it might do if it's confronted with
police negligence or if it's confronted with a
widespread pattern of negligence.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Of course, if you did the
cost-benefit analysis the way Justice Stewart would, the
cost is always zero to the State because they would not
have had the evidence if they had obeyed the law.
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, but I think, Justice
Stevens, that form of looking at the question has been
rejected in this Court's cases that have recognized that
the exclusionary rule has to pay its way because in
every case in which it results in suppression there is a
cost to society and the benefit therefore needs to be
appreciable and this Court needs to be confident of that
before it concludes that what the Court called the
"massive remedy of exclusion" is applied in any
particular case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We know what the
cost was here, right? I mean, not just a drug peddler,
but somebody with an illegal weapon found in his car, a
weapon that presumably he would use on an occasion in
which it was in his view appropriate to do so.
MR. DREEBEN: Correct. There was benefit in
this very case and cost if the evidence is suppressed.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But don't you take -- I
understood you to take the position and I thought the
Court had previously taken the position that the cost
benefit analysis had to be a systemic one.
MR. DREEBEN: I think that that's correct,
Justice Souter, but I'm not aware of any case in which
the Court has said the exclusionary rule has costs and
now we need to see the numbers of statistically how many
cases result in suppression. I'm just not aware of any
case in which the Court has done that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, I think that's -- I
think that's true. I mean, we operate -- quite think
frankly we operate on the basis of a -- of a good guess
and I think your argument is saying let's have -- let's
have an exception to the good guess. And if -- if you
start with a good guess as the baseline it seems to me
you -- you ought to have something more than another
guess to justify the exception.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Souter what my
case comes down to today I believe is the proposition
that when we are talking about clerical errors made by
the police, there are ample incentives for the police
not to make those clerical errors that I've described
earlier, such that the incremental benefit of the
exclusionary rule which we know has a cost; it has a
tangible cost in every case in which it's applied; does
not pay its own way. In other words, there is no
sufficient incremental deterrence to warrant taking an
isolated negligent error in a generally reliable system
and saying we need to suppress evidence anyway; and
Petitioner's argument goes farther than the isolated
negligent error case. It says even if the police have
driven the error rate down as low as it's humanly
possible by committing mass amounts of are resources to
warrant database systems in order to avoid suppression,
which is what the Petitioner's theory posits, you should
still suppress; and that seems to me nothing other than
the return to the theory when there is a Fourth
Amendment violation, suppression automatically follows;
and this Court --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's not what we
have here, and we have a 13 percent error rate. If this
case goes your way, the police have limited resources;
why should they spend them on upgrading their computer
system when if there is an error it wasn't matter?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, it does matter, Justice
Ginsburg, because the police officers that I'm familiar
with and the agencies that I'm familiar with as
exemplified by the NCIC which is the national database,
says that the last thing that we want to do is send
officers mistakenly out on a felony arrest where they
are going to be placed in a potentially dangerous
situation spending community police resources to arrest
somebody who should not be arrested. This is not what
they want to do. They have a good reason to avoid being
placed in that situation and I would caution the Court
against relying on a 13 percent figure in a study that's
submitted in a brief to this Court for the first time
without any kind of adversarial testing. That is not I
this think a reliable basis for the Court to infer that
this particular police department had that kind of an
error rate or that the exclusionary rule is necessary to
prevent it from having that kind of an error rate or
even that there were no procedures in place to prevent
errors and warrants from remaining in the system.
The record simply doesn't show that. The
warrant clerks were on the stand and neither party asked
them the question so this Court doesn't have the
information to say today was there a system that would
have ferreted this out. We know that if there was it
failed in this case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In Hudson versus Michigan,
didn't the Court engage in a very broad balancing of the
social costs and the potential for increase in
violations in saying that there was no necessity for the
suppression rule in the no-knock case?
MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Kennedy; the
Court did just that and it began with the outset that
the massive remedy of suppression of evidence is a high
social cost that should not be borne by society, not
just the police, by all of us, unless appreciable
deterrence will result as a benefit; and the Court then
examined the incentives that the police had not to make
illegal no-knock entries and to add that whatever
incremental benefit there might be from exclusion was
not justified in light of the possibility of 198e
liability and the increased professionalism of the
police which has made it less necessary to make the
exclusionary rule a remedy of first resort rather than
last resort. While this Court could conceptualize the
case as one in which the government is looking for an
exception to the exclusionary rule, I think it's more
accurately one where the Court should extend the
exclusionary rule to cover negligent police clerical
errors. For the first time, at this day and age when
1983 recoveries have become effective --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many 1983 recoveries
have there been when someone says the police, they
convicted me on the basis of this evidence that wasn't
suppressed, but they committed a Fourth Amendment
violation so I should prevail in the 1983 action? How
many defendants in that situation have ever won a 1983
action?
MR. DREEBEN: No one knows, Justice
Ginsburg, because a great many of these cases will
settle out of court, but our brief does provide examples
of conduct that was more serious and more egregious than
anything involved in this case resulting in situations
where courts denied summary judgments to the defendants
and ordered the cases to go to trial.
And I'm not suggesting that in a case like
this -- may I complete the answer -- there should be a
1983 remedy, but I am suggesting that civil remedies
will provide incentives to the police to avoid the bog
of litigation by putting into place systems that will
prevent this kind of error.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dreeben. Miss Karlan, you have eight minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAMELA S. KARLAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I use 30 seconds of
your eight minutes because I want some clarity on this.
MS. KARLAN: Absolutely.
JUSTICE BREYER: Divide in your mind two
separate things: The nature of the bad conduct: is it
negligent, reckless, deliberate; and the other question
is who engaged in it -- a police department official or
some other official?
I thought this case was about the second
question, but now I'm confused about the first question
because I suppose a policeman, an arresting officer
makes a negligent error. He goes to the wrong house.
And he never looks at the number; and he arrests, starts
to arrest the wrong person: Is the evidence suppressed?
If the evidence isn't suppressed, frankly, I
don't see why a clerical official should be held to a
higher standard; but if the evidence is suppressed then
quite possibly the clerical official should be held to
the same standard. So you've heard the government say
well, the answer isn't clear; very often a negligent
official -- a negligent officer would not have that
evidence suppressed. Well, what is it?
MS. KARLAN: The answer to your question,
Justice Breyer, is if the police officer in your
hypothetical was negligent the evidence would be
suppressed. There are cases where the mistake of the
officer was a reasonable mistake, that is. He did not
--
JUSTICE BREYER: He was not.
MS. KARLAN: Then he was not negligent.
JUSTICE BREYER: I want to know if he is
negligent.
MS. KARLAN: If he is negligent --
JUSTICE BREYER: Excuse me, because I think
I'm getting a different view from the government.
MS. KARLAN: I'm absolutely certain that the
answer is if he was negligent then there was not
probable cause; if there was not probable cause and one
of the other exceptions to the exclusionary rule does
not apply, then the evidence will be suppressed.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And the definition of
negligence is that he was not objectively reasonable?
MS. KARLAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So we've got
this --
MS. KARLAN: And the rule we are asking for
here -- the narrow rule for our Petitioner is when you
have negligent error by police officials, you suppress
but as Justice Scalia pointed out in my colloquy with
him earlier, that rule is perhaps slightly less workable
than a rule that says all error.
Now we have given you a workable rule here
and we still have not heard I believe a workable rule
from the government; because what Mr. Dreeben tells you
is that under some circumstances there will be
suppression. And I just want to make up with factual
correction here which is about the 13 percent. It was a
study by the FBI. It's a very dated study because they
haven't done a more recent one and it was statewide.
But let assume for purposes of argument here that if 13
percent of the errors in the file are there because the
police are not maintaining their records properly, there
ought to be suppression of a warrantless arrest based on
that because otherwise you're really telling the
department that "good enough for government work" is,
you know, one out of six warrants is invalid, one out of
seven warrants is invalid, but that's okay.
So then what you would have to have in each
case is a hearing, and at the hearing we would be
entitled to discovery --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in that -- but in that
hypothetical I think it might be easy to say that the
policeman on the beat was not objectively reasonable in
relying.
MS. KARLAN: But Justice Kennedy --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's certainly not
the case here.
MS. KARLAN: But Justice Kennedy, if you
believe in the government's rule we should have a right
to audit that system to show that 13 percent of the
warrants --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I agree with that. If --
to say with Mr. Dreeben that we don't have to decide
that today is just unrealistic. We have to decide today
whether we are going to adopt a rule that down the road
will turn every exclusionary request into a pretrial
investigation of the procedures of the police.
MS. KARLAN: Yes. That's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And a major -- major trial.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not the procedures
of the police. The officer is on the stand and you say,
all right, you've been here a while, how many times have
these warrants turned out to be wrong, just as simple as
it was in this case? And he says, gosh, this is the
first time that I've had this question.
MS. KARLAN: But one of the things we know
from the oral argument and the transcript in Evans is
that clerk said this is the first time there has ever
been an error, and it turned out there were four errors
them made the same day.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Cross-examine
people. These people are under oath, you cross-examine.
You say, I don't think that's right. How many times?
It's not that big a deal to find out on what basis the
arresting officer was acting.
MS. KARLAN: Right. But we would be
entitled I think, Mr. Chief Justice, to say to the clerk
on the stand, have you ever conducted an audit? She
says, no, but our system is reliable.
At that point I think we are entitled to an
audit. That is we are entitled to hire an expert at
government expense to figure out how many times this
department has gotten it wrong.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't your rule also going
to require hearings. If negligence is required --
MS. KARLAN: The hearing in this case --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- you are going to have to
have a hearing on whether there was negligence. And if
so, who was negligent. If only causation is required,
you're going to have to have a hearing on who caused it.
MS. KARLAN: Justice Alito, we had a hearing
in this case that's adequate to the rule that we have
and it took approximately two hours.
JUSTICE ALITO: And will that be the case in
every instance?
MS. KARLAN: It will be the case more often
then that you'll have a two-hour hearing that you have
to show isolated --
JUSTICE ALITO: How do you know that? What
basis do you have for saying that? How do you know
that? How many of these hearings have you examined?
MS. KARLAN: Hearings in which there was no
warrant? I have examined none, but I can't imagine that
it would take more than two hours. In this case it took
two hours.
All you have to do is figure out who said
there was a warrant when there wasn't one. Was it a
court employee under Evans? The answer is then clear.
You let the evidence in. Was it not the court, that is,
everybody concedes that the court called, everybody
concedes the warrant was removed, everybody concedes
that the warrant went back? Then you answer it that
way.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose it were an agency
like INS or Customs in which they have many people that
are not sworn officers or some that are, does it make a
difference who answered the phone?
MS. KARLAN: I don't think the sworn officer
distinction makes a difference. I think the agency
does.
If I can refer to the State cases here, I
think they can illustrate how to answer your question
more precisely, Justice Kennedy. That is, a number of
States suppress evidence under these circumstances, and
they ask what's a question of law that then applies to
all future cases, which is, is this agency an adjunct of
law enforcement or is it something else?
So, for example, in California, the
Department of Corrections, not. They are not an
adjunct. So errors by the Department of Corrections,
evidence is admitted. The State of Florida, the
Department of Motor Vehicles is an adjunct. So there if
the Department of Motor Vehicles makes the mistake,
there is suppression.
This rule has been --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In Rand we said this is
exactly the inquiry we are not going to make.
MS. KARLAN: I'm not sure.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Rand was where we had a
traffic stop made by a narcotics officer. And the
question was, well, he was going outside his
jurisdiction. We said we are not going to get into the
way police departments are organized. We are just not
going to do it.
MS. KARLAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's Rand.
MS. KARLAN: No. I understand Rand
perfectly well, Justice Kennedy. But the question here
is not a Rand case. It's what counts as the police?
And that's the only question we are asking you to answer
here, is what counts as the police? Everyone who works
for the police department. When they make an negligent
error, that's enough.
Now, let me turn for just a moment to the
question of the bloated records and their incentives.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's your bottom line
position, it has to be a negligent error?
MS. KARLAN: In this case, yes. Yes. I'm
perfectly happy --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is the position you're
arguing for?
MS. KARLAN: We are arguing for negligent --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You want to adopt a rule
that's only when it's a negligent error?
MS. KARLAN: We are arguing for that rule
but wanted you to understand that there is a tradeoff as
you identified earlier. Our rule is, I think, a clean,
narrow rule. It may require, as Justice Alito has
pointed out, slightly more detailed hearings.
Let me turn now to this question of the
incentives, which is the incentives of departments, as
illustrated in this case, are to leave the question of
maintaining records to the end of the line in spending
their resources, because they are not going to have to
serve these warrants. These warrants serve as an
opportunity to stop and arrest someone they otherwise
wouldn't be able to stop and arrest here, because they
like probable cause.
All they had to do to cite -- Justice
Kennedy, to cite Rand to you is if they wanted to follow
him for a while, I'm sure they could have found a motor
vehicle violation at some point. But they didn't even
want to do that. They just wanted to use this
warrant --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that's assuming
bad faith on the part of the police.
MS. KARLAN: No, it's good faith.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They want to arrest
him, so they follow him until they find a motor vehicle
violation.
MS. KARLAN: This Court has said it's
absolutely fine and it's not bad faith.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you're
suggesting it's bad faith --
MS. KARLAN: No, I'm not suggesting that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- because they --
because they don't want to have to worry about getting a
warrant that might be wrong?
MS. KARLAN: No, no. That's not what I
said, Mr. Chief Justice. May I please --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What was the point
of -- well, sure, as long as I'm asking the questions,
you can answer.
(Laughter).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What was your point
then? You're saying, well, they want to get this guy
and they don't have to go through the warrant or
anything else. They can follow him, find the broken
taillight and then they would have gotten that guy. I
thought that was the point you were trying to make?
MS. KARLAN: No. The point I was -- the
point I was trying to make is that there are other
techniques here if you haven't as yet inarticulable
suspicion that somebody is a bad guy that you can use
that to comply with the Constitution. What you can't do
is rely on a warrant that doesn't exist, and then turn
around and say police error, but we are entitled to rely
on our own error.
JUSTICE SCALIA: May I ask one question,
Chief.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Your -- your comment seems
to assume that these warrants just lie there and the
police only use them incidentally. I have always
assumed that when a warrant is out, part of the job of
the police is to -- is to arrest the person. Isn't that
the case?
MS. KARLAN: Well, there are really two very
different kinds of warrants out there, Justice Scalia,
as I understand it. One is warrants the police go and
try and find themselves, and then they are trying to
serve those aggressively. But there are a lot of
warrants like this one that sat in a file for five
months, nobody tried to serve it during the vast
majority of that time because a lot of these warrants,
as is true in this case, are for failure to answer a
calendar call or for not paying a parking fine on time
or for not sending in your fine on a motor vehicle.
In the Ott case that we cite it was failure
to pay child support.
So those are not the kinds of things where
the police are serving the warrants aggressively.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you
Miss Karlan, the case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:06 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
62:19 28:20,22,25 59:25 60:4,14 56:22 58:9 assumes 32:4
65:13 affidavit 39:5,11 65:3 6:9 22:12 assumption 32:5
55:23 14:11 answering 8:15 arrest 3:13,21 attack 42:5
afternoon 34:12 8:17 4:11 5:1 6:1 attempt 36:14
agencies 51:14 anybody 14:1 14:15,17 17:5 audit 57:17
60:18 anybody's 11:24 29:10 30:3,9 auditing 27:17
agree 35:10 APPEARAN... 33:6 34:3 26:1
53:9 44:10,16 44:5 46:24 47:10 available 26:2
62:10 appreciable 33:5 35:7 B
Alito's 8:15 27:7 28:8 49:6 37:10 54:23 back 3:16 5:8
allowed 14:12 approach 8:3,5 arrests 5:25 47:25 60:4
14:4 18:11 approve 36:16 54:25 bad 25:17 28:16
38:11 41:16,19 59:10 asked 37:11 54:17 63:3,9
amounts 50:25 argue 12:7,8 15:5 16:3 56:8 36:1 43:5
28:1 31:21 36:13 argued 13:2 asks 15:24 balancing 52:14
57:22 50:13 arguing 8:10 assessment bald 46:19
analysis 48:22 26:7 45:25 33:17 bare-bones 39:6
answer 6:7 8:18 5:17,19 7:9,16 27:9 28:17 based 7:18
15:13,18,22 34:24 46:19 37:15 46:20 21:16,24 27:19
36:1 Breyer 12:6,16 car 34:9 43:18 causality 8:11 18:2
56:25 12:19 13:2,4 49:12 9:10 10:3 circumstances
41:1 35:24 36:2,17 10:24 11:2 14:10 17:16,19 cites 31:23
46:21 37:25 38:7,13 13:18 14:21,22 18:12,14,16,18 city 36:25
50:4 38:16,23 39:7 14:23 15:5,23 18:20,25 19:4 civil 21:17 54:4
53:15 39:13,21,24 16:13 19:13,14 19:18,19,20 clarified 46:1
59:17 54:13,16 55:11 19:18,24 22:21 40:5 41:13,20 clarity 54:14
3:7 31:22,23 51:24 33:16 34:7 18:5 59:7 59:25
54:12 53:22 35:5,5,12 36:5 causes 8:22 clearer 18:10
50:11 broad 52:14 42:25 43:14,16 certainly 32:16 22:7,19 23:4
57:16 broken 63:25 43:23 45:9,11 57:13 27:4 29:18,20
Brown 39:15 49:16,22 50:1 change 29:5 53:10 55:3,5
52:23 budget 20:22 50:11,17,23 changed 24:22 clerk 3:11 4:21
built 7:6 51:9 52:12,17 charge 12:20 4:25 5:3 6:11
C 2:1 3:1 61:25 62:14 6:8,21,25 7:1,4 44:7 58:10,19
call 4:21 10:25 38:24 39:4,20 28:5 49:10 23:10,19 37:9
11:1 20:4 39:22 41:11 54:8 58:2,13 coherence 42:9
called 4:25 5:7 47:20 48:6,8 63:10,13,17,18 27:15
conducts 4:14 6:23 20:19 credible 44:6 defendants
53:16 confronted 46:5 27:20,21 37:8 43:16 defense 14:12
confused 54:22 county's 33:12 28:12 29:17 deficiencies
21:19 course 14:22 43:13 47:20 definition 56:3
51:19 consistent 8:19 48:21 58:13,14 31:13
8:1 constable 35:4,6 3:11,16 5:7 29:7 54:18
Constitution 9:20 10:1,11 16:4 dent 42:7,9
continue 19:21 10:24 11:1,18 cut 25:24 1:18 3:11,14
convert 31:2 22:13,14 23:3 4:17,17,25
convicted 29:17 24:2,6 26:11 D 3:1 8:6,8,22 9:21
5:2,2 7:15 9:8,14,15 32:19 33:15 danger 32:12,15 22:16 32:1
12:25 12:4 18:8 38:22 39:23 33:5 33:11,12 44:16
26:25 36:14 40:8,14,15,19 dangerous 44:25,25 52:2
22:7 28:3 37:17 40:9 41:4 42:14 30:23 51:18 54:19 57:2
51:10 44:10,15 45:22 43:5,25,25 data 26:2 58:25 60:21,22
correction 56:19 47:15,23 48:14 databases 42:16 10:12 22:17
60:21,22 49:19,23 50:1 dated 56:20 61:10 62:13
47:13,19,22 52:23 53:6,9 deal 58:16 depend 5:17
costs 43:9 46:14 40:2,4,7 43:15 40:9 46:3 Deputy 1:17
cost-benefit Court's 26:20 decided 23:7 desk 22:18
33:16 48:22 32:5 35:24 deciding 7:23 detailed 62:11
53:23 count 38:8 43:22 39:4,20 49:2 decision 12:13 deter 24:8
47:15 cover 53:10 33:15 determination
23:24 61:16,18 37:6 defendant 31:12 determine 9:19
door 45:18,18 E error 3:20 4:22 31:21 35:4
double-check earlier 3:12 5:9 9:5,19 10:5,8 47:5 48:8,24
27:7 downtown 34:18 50:15 56:12 11:22 12:2,5 52:20 53:15
48:7 draw 7:12 19:15 62:9 12:25 16:3 55:1,2,4,9,12
52:23 40:19 easier 16:16,20 17:17,25 18:5 56:2 60:1,16
60:9,11 21:22 effect 28:14 26:4,24 27:4 evidentiary
16:2 Dreeben 1:17 effective 53:12 36:11 37:1,2 ex 30:4
35:7 2:5 26:15,16 efforts 33:21 38:1,8,16 exactly 8:1 16:6
36:5 41:8 26:18 27:12 egregious 53:23 44:15,21 45:1 16:15,19 28:3
42:13 28:5,19 29:5 eight 54:9,14 45:3,4,8,15 37:15 46:21
46:11 29:13,21,25 either 3:17 46:3,9 50:20 61:4
64:21 30:4,11,15 12:16 18:21 50:23,24 51:8 examined 52:24
32:4,11,16,24 44:15 54:7,24 56:10 example 4:3
35:21,23 36:9 empirical 47:15 61:20,24 62:6 60:20
38:6,10,15,21 employee 7:22 errors 7:12,13 excellent 5:20
40:1,14 41:3,9 12:13 21:13 27:2 36:21 36:19,19,20
5:7 43:3,15,21,24 7:14 21:24 50:12,14 52:6 exceptions
44:12,18 45:2 encounter 30:23 53:11 56:23 40:17 56:1
43:18 45:10,20 46:1 31:4 58:11 60:22 excessive 25:6
47:14,23 48:5 enforcement escape 32:21 40:25
49:21 50:10 42:15 60:19 2:5,8 exclusion 49:8
23:18 driving 36:3 engaging 29:2 58:9 59:25 25:10 26:20,24
60:11 drug 43:12 entitled 10:12 everybody 27:8 28:21
43:25,25 drugs 34:8 58:23 64:9 60:2,2,3 36:15 37:7
39:17 entries 52:25 evidence 8:24 40:17 43:6,7,9
21:9 D.C 1:8,18 erroneously 25:12 26:23 49:23 50:16
34:5 10:14 27:6 30:3 52:3 53:5,8,10
57:23 51:14 fit 21:24 33:7 geography 57:2 63:4
farther 50:22 64:25 45:15 47:10 gotten 58:25
17:5 follow 62:22 22:11 25:16 36:10
Federal 23:25 form 28:8 35:8 22:9,15 governmental
fellow 29:19 43:22 giving 33:19 25:21 57:16
34:3 51:17 39:18 43:25 go 4:10 8:12 greatest 30:9
14:6 6:16 55:2 10:8 11:17 hand 16:12
24:3 filled 35:20 free 43:20 47:20 16:4 20:8,12 happen 16:9
41:15,19 find 18:10 27:12 frequency 37:12 21:3 22:15 27:15 29:10
27:19 30:3,13 frequent 42:18 25:12,14 28:16 39:18
58:16 63:6,25 42:21 36:25 41:14,15 6:9 11:23 17:6
33:7 22:24 27:23 function 44:20 47:20 51:18 happy 62:1
findings 44:3 further 26:10 61:4,8,9,11 Harry 38:3,4
first 3:4 5:10,11 17:19 21:9 hear 3:3 26:15
40:12,15 30:22 32:12 G 3:1 32:5,7 40:12 46:25 55:6
63:3 35:23 36:23 General 1:17 40:15,16,17 56:15
51:24 53:5,11 generally 44:3 45:8,11 50:4,6 hearing 11:4,17
57:6,6 43:2,4,4 INS 60:7 judges 16:20 39:7,13,21,24
important 30:16 inside 22:9 judgments 40:11,22,24
28:2 36:24 59:12 jurisdiction 42:4,13,17,20
improve 46:17 instances 44:8 61:9 42:22,25 43:11
inaccurate 7:3 instantly 4:5 jurisdictions 43:21 44:9,14
64:5 institutionally jurisprudence 45:24 46:2,7
incentives 27:1 36:21 6:21,25 7:1,4,8 51:7,12 52:13
incidental 30:13 involving 43:13 14:14,25 15:3 61:13,15,23
54:24 64:16 isolated 25:18 15:20 16:6,11 63:2,5,10,13
37:23 42:8 36:25 40:20 17:8,12,20,22 64:11,13,14,21
increase 52:15 41:14 42:8,10 17:24 18:10,14 65:10
29:5 50:15,19 59:15 20:14,18 21:4 justified 14:8
18:12 indicate 3:18 31:10 41:4 23:2,10,15 justify 28:7 32:3
57:9 indicates 7:5 42:18 24:9,12,17,20 45:22 47:24
31:13 26:13,18 27:9
52:25 information 7:2 job 20:13 21:9 31:6,9,17,24 5:22 6:6,25 7:4
kinds 12:11 liable 31:15 20:13 21:9 Michigan 52:13
15:5 17:13 33:21 lie 64:15 56:24 62:15 millions 38:23
64:21 65:8 light 53:2 maintains 25:22 38:24
16:9,15 know 4:9,12 lightly 30:24 maintenance mind 11:22
17:2,7 8:17 11:8,12 33:6 27:5 36:12 34:22 54:16
11:15 15:7,8,9 limited 26:1 major 58:1,1 minute 24:3
15:10,18 16:22 51:9 majority 65:2 28:12
16:25 20:15,18 line 7:12 19:15 making 20:21 minutes 4:23 7:2
22:22 25:16,19 22:9 35:14,17 31:25 42:7 21:7 54:9,14
22:1,8,14 29:1,8,9 30:5,7 40:18 42:6 47:18 misconduct
30:8,13,14,16 61:23 62:15 malfunctioned 26:22
36:7 39:3 lines 19:6 35:25 11:25 mission 23:6
26:9 45:11,12 47:8 list 5:2 25:23 malfunctions mistake 5:21
27:24 47:13,22 49:10 37:20 13:15 8:10 11:15
54:9,11 50:16 52:11 lists 25:23 malice 28:16 12:21 18:7
55:10,17 55:18 57:3 litigable 31:10 man 38:18,20 19:2 21:7,14
56:5 58:8 59:16,17 litigation 54:6 39:1 34:18 38:15
57:12,15 knows 53:20 little 8:16 16:24 manageable 40:5,6,6 55:13
58:8,18 18:9 27:13 11:20 55:14 60:25
L 41:7 manifested 47:4 mistaken 19:11
61:5,12 lack 33:18 local 3:11 48:15 manner 45:5 19:12,14
62:4 latest 20:20 local-level 24:4 man's 38:8 mistakenly
63:4,8,12 Laughter 13:21 long 12:4 32:3 mass 50:25 51:17
64:3,20 63:21 63:19 massive 49:8 mistakes 40:3
law 16:23 22:6 look 4:15 10:1 52:20 42:11
25:2 42:15 48:24 looked 5:2 47:15 51:11,12 65:13 32:8 61:21
42:15 60:17,19 looking 49:1 matters 7:8 months 3:22 4:6
15:11 leave 14:23 32:2 lose 29:1,9 20:14 28:11,11 mother 17:3,17
32:10 62:14 lost 47:20 28:25 29:15,16 motion 7:24
leaves 10:19 lot 16:12 17:16 38:7,17 46:8 40:25
37:14,18 legal 43:4 24:22 34:2 49:11 50:3 motor 60:24,25
40:11 Leon 19:21 39:22 43:6 means 45:12 62:23 63:6
56:3 23:23,24 35:2 45:12 64:24 measure 47:9 65:5
36:19 39:7,9 65:2 memorialize municipal 23:25
61:3,6 39:12 40:16 low 48:6,7 50:24 10:20 murder 43:17
62:22 let's 10:21 13:13 lower 39:24 40:2 mentioned myriad 46:16
36:17 38:18 mentions 6:10 N
34:13,19 levels 16:2 machines 13:1 message 10:19 name 4:10
43:5 liability 28:13 maintain 23:7 10:19 25:10 narcotics 61:7
51:25 31:10 37:22 25:13 MICHAEL 1:17 narrow 15:24
54:7 53:3 maintaining 2:5 26:16 56:9 62:10
24:2 29:19 39:4 54:23 P 16:25 17:1,5
52:3 new 36:19,20 officers 22:18,18 PAMELA 1:15 personal 28:13
nobody's 16:25 23:11 30:23 2:3,8 3:6 54:11 personally
26:10 non-negligent official 31:15 11:25 12:9 23:4,4,5
49:24 46:10 54:19,20 55:3 13:8 17:25 perspective 30:5
noose 16:11 55:5,8 25:9 63:3 pertaining
49:5,6 notice 3:13 Oh 7:10 32:16 particular 5:18 pertinent 26:8
8:1,5,7,11 52:25 58:13 49:9 52:2 1:16 2:4,9 3:7
9:1,3,5 number 10:21 open 14:23 partner 38:2,9 3:20 5:16
11:24 10:22 11:7,9 operate 23:23 partners 38:18 31:23 43:7
11:12 33:25 50:3,4 party 52:8 44:5 54:12
15:1 35:25 37:20,21 opinion 40:12 pass 39:12 56:9
42:14 54:25 opportunity pattern 40:21 Petitioner's 3:13
27:10 60:15 62:18 41:5 44:1 5:1 34:8 50:22
28:2,6 numbers 49:24 opposite 35:3 48:20 51:2
38:19 oral 1:11 2:2 3:6 pay 49:3 50:18 phone 60:9
40:3 O 26:16 58:9 65:7 phrase 40:12
43:22 O 2:1 3:1 order 31:1 40:9 paying 65:4 physical 4:18
48:19 oath 58:14 47:24 51:1 peddler 43:12 5:4,11 9:23
56:4 obeyed 48:24 ordered 54:1 49:11 22:19
objective 40:18 organizational people 4:8 6:24 physically 3:14
objectively 29:2 organized 61:10 34:17 37:11 picking 5:15
13:5 obtain 25:12 ought 47:21 percent 5:24 place 4:18 18:11
29:2 30:3 obtained 24:3 50:8 56:25 25:25,25 26:4 52:5 54:6
36:11 39:5 outcome 43:14 26:5 44:15 placed 51:18,22
occasion 49:13 outset 52:19 45:8,15 46:9 places 4:19
46:3 occur 37:3,11 outside 22:9 46:12 51:8,23 plaintiff 31:11
53:10 occurred 21:10 28:12 61:8 56:19,23 57:17 please 3:9 5:3
55:7 October 1:9 outstanding perfectly 61:15 26:19 63:17
office 3:16 4:19 9:22 30:20 62:1 pleasure 21:20
56:10 5:7 23:6,7 34:4 perform 22:19 pocket 19:12
61:19,24 27:20,21 33:5 outweigh 46:14 performed 32:23
officer 19:19,20 overall 44:13 21:21 point 3:25 15:23
39:1 22:6,6,22 33:5 overstating 36:3 26:1 25:21 27:25
36:3 38:2,25 39:14 5:23,25 6:1 published 26:2 51:8 52:3,4
43:19 54:23 57:10 14:10 17:16,19 purely 21:16 reach 41:4
62:24 policemen 38:25 18:12,14,16,18 39:6 reaching 41:10
64:2 police-generat... 18:20,25 19:4 purposes 23:20 41:11
16:3 19:18,19,20 56:22 really 17:4,18
25:4 41:13,20,20 32:7 36:3 45:12
8:6,8 position 8:22 47:12 55:25,25 54:6 realm 40:4
9:5 11:19 21:16,17 62:20 reason 8:10
10:5 49:18,19 61:24 probably 20:19 Q 17:24 19:18
62:2 20:21 40:7 quality 5:18 22:10,17,25
11:5,5,9 posits 51:2 47:24 quashed 10:24 23:5 30:22
12:2 possibility 53:2 probative 26:23 11:2,2,3 34:1,15 36:13
possible 30:18 47:5 question 6:8 8:2 51:21
16:14 37:22 50:25 problem 12:10 8:3,15,18 reasonable
19:22,22 possibly 55:5 15:8 20:17 11:10,14,16,16 32:18 40:5
20:11,12 post-Leon 19:24 problems 35:20 11:16 12:15 55:14 56:4
22:2 potential 31:1 37:6 44:6 13:9,22,25 57:10
31:11 52:15 procedures 5:20 14:1,5,7,10,15 reasonableness
potentially 27:17,18 52:5 14:15,24 15:14 42:6
51:18 57:24 58:2 15:19,23,24 reasons 19:17
24:4,13 power 30:10 produce 28:7 23:18 24:5 22:10,15 32:11
powerful 13:24 produced 45:4 34:21 37:25 33:19,23 46:16
29:1,6 24:15 product 19:13 41:21 42:18 REBUTTAL
practical 30:8 professional 49:1 52:9 2:7 54:11
32:1 43:1,4 24:24 25:3 54:18,22,22 recall 44:8
33:2 practices 43:8 professionalism 55:10 58:7 recalled 3:19 5:8
precisely 27:14 25:8 53:3 60:14,17 61:8 6:13,16 34:6
29:13 60:15 professionalize 61:15,17,22 35:9
36:6 prepared 40:7 25:11 62:12,14 64:11 recalling 3:12
44:19 program 21:5 questions 14:18 received 3:13
39:4 presumably programmed 26:11 63:19 11:1
46:4,17 23:9 49:13 13:12 quick 23:8 reckless 54:18
50:13,13 pretending 17:1 properly 56:24 quite 24:23,24 recognized
51:9,13 pretrial 57:23 propose 25:1,5 50:3 55:5 23:22 32:20
52:2,22 pretty 45:8 proposition 46:9 49:2
53:4,10 prevail 53:17 46:20 50:11 R record 3:18 4:2
54:5,19 prevent 52:4,5 prosecute 29:12 R 1:17 2:5 3:1 4:14 5:13 6:20
56:10,24 54:7 prosecution 26:16 10:25 21:5
58:3 previously 24:5 raises 8:2 22:21 25:18
49:19 protected 21:18 Rand 61:3,6,13 27:10,14,16,17
64:9,16 price 43:19 22:2 61:14,16 62:22 44:12 47:3
65:9 prima 45:9,11 protection 34:13 rate 25:24 26:4 52:7
18:1 36:5 54:5 45:3,8,16 5:18,20 12:14
35:7 probable 3:22 provides 37:24 46:10 50:24 27:22 30:18
44:2 repeated 40:16 3:23 4:8,20 saying 14:1 20:4 separate 14:14
46:4,24 rephrasing 5:10 6:21 7:1 23:15 28:21 14:16 19:8
21:1,9 reported 12:24 18:24 20:2,14 50:5,21 52:16 separated 14:18
24:13 representations 20:18 21:4 59:17 63:23 19:6
10:13 23:2,10,15 says 9:21 10:18 serious 53:23
34:18 request 57:23 26:6,13 27:9 10:23,23 11:18 serve 34:4 62:17
56:24 require 16:1 27:24 49:10 16:21 22:12 62:17 64:24
62:15 28:2 42:9 54:8 58:2,13 45:21 50:23 65:1
62:10 63:18,22 64:13 56:13 58:6,21 serves 26:25
reserve 26:11 24:7,18,23,25 29:21 40:24 shear 8:11
37:13 respect 5:23 40:18 43:6,7,9 scope 30:9 59:15
47:5 respond 34:24 43:19 44:19 scratch 47:25 showed 45:15
52:1 Respondent 45:20 47:1,24 search 19:13,13 showing 27:5
1:19 2:6 26:17 48:2,12 49:3 23:24 39:2 28:1 45:3,3,21
result 3:19 53:10 56:1,8,9 second 22:4,21 46:10,15
46:4,11 48:7 57:16,22 59:1 54:21 25:18 27:16
resulting 53:24 62:7,9,10 see 14:19 35:13 Similarly 34:7
retaliation 22:3 rule's 46:14 49:24 55:3 simply 5:14
52:20 37:1 46:13 S 1:15 2:1,3,8 51:16 sitting 35:18
54:4 49:11 56:6 3:1,6 54:11 sending 65:5 situation 13:10
60:3 ROBERTS 3:3 saw 19:11 sense 19:8 situations 33:2
Stanford 1:15 suggested 24:2 Supreme 1:1,12 tell 46:21 48:4
62:11 starting 41:22 suggests 21:8 28:19 47:6,6 56:16
state 36:9 44:16 summary 53:25 suspect 36:22 test 39:12
49:5 States 1:1,6,12 65:7 32:20 Thank 3:8 26:13
3:4 60:16 suppose 7:21 suspicion 32:18 26:18 41:7
35:15 State-level 24:4 38:1 48:12 60:8,10 15:2 16:8,10
51:20 station 34:10 54:23 60:6 symbolic 43:1 24:17 28:14
statistically supposed 7:23 system 3:24 7:17 44:24 51:2,4
19:12 statistics 45:13 suppress 8:23 27:21 28:4,13 21:3 34:19
42:5 13:22,25 14:7 19:21,24 35:4 52:6,10 57:17 12:17 17:9
29:23 42:22,25 43:11 46:12 50:21 40:21 58:8 65:8
48:21 49:1 51:3 56:10 systemic 49:20 think 7:15,25
Stewart 48:22 60:16 systems 30:18 8:1,8 16:20
44:9 stop 31:3,3 suppressed 13:5 33:19 51:1 17:9 22:8
45:7 32:17,18 61:7 20:8 24:6 54:6 24:23,24,25
46:7 62:18,19 25:12 47:5 25:3,4,7,8,15
47:3,6 stopped 29:16 48:9 49:16 T 28:6,9,20,22
48:1 street 20:3 34:11 53:16 55:1,2,4 T 2:1,1 28:24 29:5,6
49:17 strike 43:6 55:9,13 56:2 taillight 64:1 30:11,15 31:20
50:2,10 stuck 22:12 suppressing take 9:4,24 32:4,8 35:16
submitted 51:24 20:12 21:2 taken 34:9 49:19 41:24 42:12,24
substantial 25:9 28:7 35:2 talk 25:22 45:8 46:1,2
58:3,20 substitutes 46:4 48:7 49:4 50:12 50:2,3,3,5 52:1
sufficient 50:19 52:17,20 56:18 tasks 22:20 57:9 58:15,19
62:9 Tuesday 1:9 unrealistic 44:2 52:16 60:4 63:1,15
61:21 62:12 unreasonable virtue 35:11 warranted 28:9
turned 58:5,11 46:25 W 3:21 14:9
19:19 two 12:11 14:18 update 4:14 want 7:11,12,16 warrants 4:18
45:24 17:10,13 19:6 28:3 8:18 14:23 6:15 10:13
54:21 19:8,16,17 updated 3:18,25 15:11,13,25 25:2 27:5 32:1
21:23 33:25 20:6 21:6 19:15 20:7 34:5,6,17 44:7
54:16 59:10,21 upgrading 36:4,7 41:1,3 52:6 57:3,4,18
35:16 two-hour 59:14 use 8:3 12:13 51:16,21 54:14 64:15,21,22,25
51:24 type 21:5 14:12 32:21 55:18 56:18 65:2,9
58:7,10 typical 25:19 40:11,15 49:13 62:5,25 63:5 warrant-keepi...
54:13 62:25 63:14,23 29:4
41:4 11:24 V 25:23 33:8,12 wasn't 5:5,6
46:3,5,6 unclear 13:9 v 1:5 3:4 6:5,7,9 62:8,22,25 12:1 16:17
48:13 unconstitutio... 6:9 22:12 wants 34:14 17:4 19:23
52:10 8:23 38:12 40:23 47:23 21:5 35:12
underlying valid 42:2 47:10 Warden 39:10 36:6 38:4
38:3 understand vast 65:1 3:16,19 4:7,9 59:24
undertake 33:6 39:10 52:13 18:18,20,22,23 weapon 49:12
65:1 undertaken 49:14 55:22 20:3,4 22:23 weapons 31:1
undertaking violated 14:4 32:24 33:2,3 weird 16:24
65:3 undisputed 14:2 violation 18:11 35:9 36:12 went 5:4,6 18:6
64:23 22:2 31:6 38:11 39:14,14 41:12 we'll 3:3 26:15
3:4 53:17 62:24 44:7 50:19 40:18 41:22,24
36:4 64:2 unpredictable 63:7 51:1 52:8 46:12
11:23 violations 24:8 59:20,24 60:3 we've 28:13
48:1 58:5,25 63:15 6
wrote 11:9 6 25:25
X
41:5 zero 48:23 9
99 5:24
1:5 3:4
11:2
10 4:22 7:2
13 26:4,4 44:15
46:11 51:8,23
15 4:22
18a 44:4
56:12,14 1983 31:6,9,18
31:20 37:16,19
53:12,13,17,18
2
2008 1:9
3 2:4 25:25
13:7 4
14:2,20 41 4:15
48 25:22
17:5
38:19 5
41:12 513 11:3
55:1 54 2:9
