IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS :
COMMISSION, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 07-582
FOX TELEVISION STATIONS, :
INC., ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 4, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioners.
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 59
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 07-582, Federal
Communications Commission versus Fox Television
Stations.
Mr. Garre. Solicitor General Garre.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
GENERAL GARRE: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
This case involves a challenge to the
efforts of the Federal Communications Commission to
carry out its statutory mandate under 18 U.S.C. 1464,
and more even-handedly address indecent material that is
broadcast directly into the home during the time of day
when children are likely to be in the viewing audience.
After reconsidering its policy in this area,
the Commission determined that an enforcement action may
be appropriate in the case of indecent language that is
isolated as well as repeated. Because the Commission
provided a reasoned explanation for that change in
course, the court of appeals erred in invalidating its
action under the Administrative Procedures Act.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did it -- did it reconsider
its policy? In the first order, I would -- I would have
gathered that it had, but its second order said
basically, we've never had a policy that single use of
these expletives is okay. Which is it? Are they
changing their policy or not?
GENERAL GARRE: They did change the policy,
Justice Scalia, and the Commission directly acknowledged
that in paragraph 12 of the Golden Globe Awards order,
which is not reprinted in the petition appendix. In
that paragraph, the Commission said, "We now depart from
cases holding that isolated or fleeting use of the
F-Word was not indecent."
JUSTICE SCALIA: The latest order, the one
that's up here, says that all of the statements to that
effect in the past were simply staff statements and that
the Commission had never held to that effect before.
GENERAL GARRE: Well, the court of appeals
recognized, and we think correctly so, that the
Commission did change its position on that. The
Commission had never brought an enforcement action
against a broadcaster for the isolated use of an
expletive, and the Commission made clear in the orders
it issued in this case, beginning with the Golden Globe
Awards order and the particular omnibus and remand
orders before this Court, that it was taking a change in
regulatory course in determining that it was appropriate
to bring an enforcement action where there was an
isolated incident of an expletive if the context
suggested that it would be indecent in that situation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is the agency's
position that its policy has changed or that it has not
changed?
GENERAL GARRE: That it has changed,
Justice Kennedy, and the court of appeals recognized
that at pages 20a to 21a of the decision. And we think
this Court has recognized --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the court
recognized, but it seems to me the FCC -- and this is
what Justice Scalia's questions go in part to -- in the
remand order at first it said its policy hadn't changed.
GENERAL GARRE: Well, I think there were
some statements, we would acknowledge that, in different
places. But if you go to the heart of where the FCC
grappled with this, paragraph -- paragraph 12 of the
Golden Globe Awards order, it specifically disavowed its
prior decisions in which it had said that isolated
expletives would not warrant an enforcement action under
1464, and it specifically said, "we are departing from
our policy." We -- after all, it didn't impose --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But I think it rewrote that
in its last order, and I think it even explained away
the Golden Globe statement by saying it was not as
categorical as it might appear.
GENERAL GARRE: I think if you look at maybe
pages 82 to 83 of the petition appendix here, where we
discuss that as well, I think it made clear with respect
to the indecency finding involving the 2003 Billboard
Music Awards and the 2002 Billboard Music Awards, that
in applying its contextual analysis in the past it
focused on whether or not expletives were repeated or
dwelled upon. In this case, the Commission determined
that it was not going to be guided exclusively by that
consideration and that it was going to take into account
all contextual factors, including the explicit and
graphic nature of the language used.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think, in
terms of our legal review, it makes a difference whether
it's a change or whether it's a continuation of a prior
policy?
GENERAL GARRE: Certainly, I would be
defending it if the Court thought that it wasn't a
change, and it would have been inappropriate for the
Second Circuit to invalidate that as arbitrary and
capricious. We have -- we think it was a change. The
language that the Commission used indicated that it was
departing from its prior understanding, and we are here
defending -- either way, we are here defending --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess my question
is, do you think a different legal standard applies when
an agency changes a prior position as opposed to
articulating its position for the first time?
GENERAL GARRE: Well, this Court has said
that it's desirable for agencies to reconsider and to
change its policy from time to time, but when --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wasn't the Commission --
the Commission asked the Second Circuit, said: We've
changed our policy; we want you to remand the case to
the Commission so the Commission can explain what its
new policy. I mean, isn't that how this whole thing
arose? The case was in the Second Circuit and the
Commission said it wanted to have an opportunity to
explain its position more fully?
GENERAL GARRE: It is, and it did in the
remand order reprinted in the petition appendix.
Mr. Chief Justice, I think either way the
ultimate standard is arbitrary and capriciousness. Now,
the Respondents have focused on whether or not we have
complied with the criteria that the Court has looked to
in determining whether or not a change in agency
position is arbitrary and capricious. And we think that
there are three factors here that must lead to the
conclusion that it was not arbitrary and capricious.
One, we think that the Commission did
directly acknowledge its change in position. Two, the
Commission provided a concrete explanation for that
change. And, three, that explanation is at a minimum
plausible and consistent with the Commission's statutory
mandate. This Court has never invalidated a change in
agency position where those three factors have been
present.
And if you look at the three principal
justifications that the agency used in explaining its
change in position, I think it's absolutely clear that
this was at a minimum a rational policy choice that the
agency was committed -- was permitted to take under the
Administrative Procedures Act.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: One of the problems is
that, seeing it in operation, there seems to be no rhyme
or reason for some of the decisions that the Commission
has made. I mean, the "Saving Private Ryan" case was
filled with expletives, and yet the film about jazz
history, the words were considered a violation of the
Commission's policies. So that there seems to be very
little rhyme or reason to when the Commission says that
one of these words is okay and when it says it isn't.
GENERAL GARRE: Well, we do think, of
course, that there is rhyme or reason to its
determination. First, let me say that much of the
vagueness type of arguments that the Respondents are
making similar to your question could be made equally
with respect to the Commission's policy with respect to
repeated utterances as well as isolated utterances.
If you take the "Saving Private Ryan" and
the blues documentary example, those were repeated-
utterances cases. We are here because they challenged
the Commission's change in policy to go from repeated
utterances to consider enforcement actions in the case
of isolated expletives where they met its contextual
analysis and where it was explicit, graphic, shocking or
pandering in the context.
Now, I think certainly there are going to be
situations and this Court has indicated that the
vagueness inquiry doesn't turn about coming up with
hypotheticals at -- at the outer margins of the
standard.
I think in the Pacifica case our reading of
the Court's decision is similar to the D.C. Circuit's
reading of that decision in the Action for Children's
Television case, that implicit in the Court's decision
in Pacifica was that it rejected a vagueness challenge
to the Commission's definition of "indecency," which is
the same definition that the Commission is applying
today.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose the most
difficult case for you is the "Early News" case where
you have just a fleeting expletive, unlike "Saving
Private Ryan" and the others. I mean, how do you
distinguish the "Early News" case from the ones before
us?
GENERAL GARRE: The Commission has
determined that news programming would be treated
differently, with greater restraint, because of the
different values present in that situation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the same -- if
you had a news report about Nicole Richey and the Cher
exhibits, they -- they could use the actual language,
even though they can't during the -- the awards shows?
GENERAL GARRE: Yes. And, similarly, if
there were a news report about the argument today in
this Court and there were reports about the actual
language used, that's right. The Commission has
exercised restraint in that area, recognizing that there
are different values at stake than in the -- in the
utterance of indecent language during a prime-time
broadcast where are a substantial number of children in
the viewing audience.
For the broadcast in this case, up to 24 to
28 percent of the viewing audience comprised children
under the age of 18. This language was concededly
gratuitous in the context it was used. In the Nicole
Richey example in 2003, there was an element of
pandering as part of the dialogue consisted of Paris
Hilton saying, "Watch your language," before Nicole
Richey launched into dropping the S-Word and the F-Word
in -- in a context that was, the FCC reasonably
determined, was shocking and gratuitous and explicit and
graphic; and, therefore, in the context in which it was
presented, indecent under the agency's longstanding
definition of "indecency."
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are there only those two
words in the FCC's new policy or are there other words
on the list?
GENERAL GARRE: Well, certainly, the FCC's
action in this case focuses on the use of the F-Word and
the S-Word, and I think everyone acknowledges that a
word like the F-Word is one of the most graphic,
explicit, and vulgar words in the English language for
sexual activity. And I think even the networks here
concede that it was -- its use was gratuitous and
inappropriate here. And that would control --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't it true that --
isn't it true that that is a word that often is used
with -- with no reference whatsoever to the -- the
sexual connotation?
GENERAL GARRE: It can be -- it certainly
can be used in a non-literal way. It can be used in a
metaphorical way, as Cher used it here, to say "F them"
to her critics. But the -- the non-literal/literal
distinction is not unique to the isolated expletives
versus the repeated effort -- expletives.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You think it's equally --
it's equally subject to being treated as indecent within
the meaning of the statute regardless of which meaning
was actually apparent to everybody who listened to it?
GENERAL GARRE: I wouldn't say equally,
Justice Stevens, but what we would say is that it can
qualify as indecent under the -- under the Commission's
definition, because even the non-literal use of a word
like the F-Word, because of the core meaning of that
word as one of the most vulgar, graphic, and explicit
words for sexual activity in the English language, it
inevitably conjures up a core sexual image.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is, indeed, why it's
used.
GENERAL GARRE: Which is, indeed, why it's
used as an intensifier or as an insult, and it's why the
networks themselves -- and this is reprinted, I believe,
at 86 of the petition appendix -- have a 24-hour rule
that the F-Word generally should not be use on TV.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that is an
entirely voluntary -- I mean, the Commission would have
no objection if the F-Word were used on a regular basis
after 10:00 o'clock?
GENERAL GARRE: Outside of the safe harbor
under this Court's decision, the -- the Commission
recognizes that networks can use indecent language.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Although they don't, I
gather.
GENERAL GARRE: Although they don't. Their
policies are not to use indecent language.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because they find it
offensive, I gather.
GENERAL GARRE: Because I think they
recognize that it contravenes community standards for
appropriateness in the broadcast medium, and that --
those policies are reprinted at pages 86a to 88a of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How are the contemporary
community standards determined in this context? Does
the FCC survey any particular audience to find out what
their standards are?
GENERAL GARRE: Well, first of all, the
community standards are community standards for the
broadcast medium. This is set out a little bit at page
33 of the joint appendix at footnote 13. Second of all,
they look to community standards for the average
listener. And, third of all, the -- the Commission
applies its expressly -- collective experience here,
looking to statements from lawmakers, from courts, from
broadcasters, from public interest groups, and from
citizens to determine what is consistent with community
standards. And certainly the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I suppose the
broadcasters' own voluntary determination not to use
that -- that language 24 hours is a reflection of what
they think about community standards.
GENERAL GARRE: Absolutely. I think it is
an irrefutable reflection of what they think the
appropriate community standards are.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you talking about
community standards for broadcasting?
GENERAL GARRE: Community standards for
broadcasting, that's right. And, in that respect, this
case is much different than the Reno case, for example,
where one of the criticisms this Court had was
uncertainty about what community standards would apply.
Another difference is -- is that here you
have the Commission, an expert agency, making these
determining -- making these determinations, drawing in
part on the policies and practices of the regulated
industry itself; for example, the self-imposed rule not
to use the F-Word at particular times of day.
And, of course, you have the fact that
broadcast television has always been subject to a lesser
standard of First Amendment scrutiny. Now --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Still, I gather
that's at issue with the constitutional questions. Does
that still have the same force today when the broadcast
medium is only one of several that are -- that are
available? In other words, it seems to me that the
Commission might not be accomplishing terribly much if
it regulates a particular medium when all sorts of other
media, media, are available that don't have the
Commission's oversight.
GENERAL GARRE: We think it is, and we think
it is reflected in the Court's cases. Let me -- and let
me explain why. But let me first say that obviously we
think that this Court does not need to, and should not,
delve into the constitutional issues in resolving the
case before it today.
The only issue that we have presented and
the only issue decided below is whether or not the
Commission has provided a reasoned explanation of the
Administrative Procedures Act.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can I -- can I ask? You
can go ahead. Are you finished?
GENERAL GARRE: Well, if -- if I can answer
the question as to the force of the Court's precedents,
this Court has repeatedly affirmed in cases like Sable,
in cases like Reno, in cases like Turner and Denver
Area, that broadcasting is subject to a different and
lesser First Amendment standard.
The Commission in this case looked to the
considerations that underlie that jurisprudential
doctrine and concluded that they were still apposite,
and that is at pages 108 to 110 of the petition
appendix.
Most Americans still get their information
and entertainment from broadcast TV. Most children --
broadcast TV is extremely accessible to children because
all they have to do is turn it on, and then they have
network shows that they can have access to. And
broadcast television is still broadcast in a way that
invades the home, the place -- the one place where
people typically don't expect to have uninvited,
offensive --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but wasn't the
rationale for the lesser standard largely the scarcity
of the frequencies?
GENERAL GARRE: I think that was the
rationale in Red -- Red Lion. This is Court in Pacifica
didn't rely on that rationale.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But it relied on it in Red
Lion?
GENERAL GARRE: Yes. I -- as we read the
decision, Justice Stevens -- and I understand that you
wrote the plurality decision there. But, as we read the
decision, the Court did not rest so much on the scarcity
rationale, but, yet, on the unique pervasiveness of
broadcasting, the unique accessibility to children, and
the fact that broadcasting invades the home in a way
that other technologies do not.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was before the
Internet. Pacifica was in 1978.
GENERAL GARRE: It was, Your Honor. Now, in
the Turner case this Court said at page 190 that
broadcast medium is still the principal source of
information in entertainment in affirming the lesser
standard that this Court applies.
We actually think that the fact that there
are now additional mediums like the internet and cable
TV, if anything, underscores the appropriateness of a
lower First Amendment standard or safety zone for
broadcast TV, because Americans who want to get indecent
programming can go to cable TV, they can go to the
Internet.
But broadcast TV is, as Congress designed
that to be, the one place where Americans can turn on
the TV at 8:00 o'clock and watch their dinner and not be
expected to be bombarded with indecent language, either
in an isolated basis or repeated basis. That's a
societal expectation that has grown up over the last
30 years since Pacifica. And it would be a remarkable
thing to adopt the world that the networks are asking
you to adopt here today, where the networks are free to
use expletives, whether in an isolated or repeated
basis, 24 hours a day, going from the extreme example of
Big Bird dropping the F-bomb on Sesame Street, to the
example of using that word during Jeopardy or opening
the episode of American Idol --
JUSTICE BREYER: I just have a practical
question. I'm just curious about this. What are the
networks supposed to do, or the television stations?
They cover a lot of live events. They're not just
sports events. They're also like but the Golden -- you
know, the Emmys, the Oscars, and you deal with a
cross-section of humanity. And my experience is some
parts of that cross-section swear.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: So, what is it -- what are
they supposed to do when the event is live, and lo and
behold, they have a few people in front of them who
swear, using these words? What is their -- what can
they do?
GENERAL GARRE: With respect to live
entertainment programming, Justice Breyer, you can do
what the networks now do, which is to have a tape delay
which permits you to bleep out isolated or offensive --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, what they -- what they
now -- they now do this? In other words, whenever they
cover a baseball game, whenever they cover anything
live, they have to have some kind of tape system or for
the Emmys, everything is on tape and it's all delayed
five seconds?
GENERAL GARRE: No. It varies based on the
type of programming. For example, the Commission has
acknowledged -- and this is at pages 94 to 95a of the
petition appendix -- that their -- that breaking news
coverage is different and that it will not approach it
--
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not talking about
breaking news coverage. I guess I'm talking about, you
know, any one of -- they cover the wrestling matches,
they cover -- you see what I'm driving at. And I would
like to know what is the state of the art? You are
saying the state of the art is right now when I turn on
my television set, they all use a delay.
GENERAL GARRE: Well, I don't think --
that's not --
JUSTICE BREYER: Or are you saying they all
have to use a delay?
GENERAL GARRE: In a show like the Billboard
Music Awards, they will use a delay. And since the
incidents in this case, the 2003 and 2002 instances, the
networks have gotten more people who are on hand to
bleep isolated expletives.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They had a 5-second delay
at the time these things occurred, didn't they?
GENERAL GARRE: They did, and I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it wasn't -- it wasn't
that they weren't fast enough or something?
GENERAL GARRE: Well, if you look at the
Nicole Richie example, they actually bleeped one word
that was used, I believe --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right, right.
GENERAL GARRE: -- before she got to the
other two words. But at that time they only had one
person working the bleeping machine or whatever it is
they call it.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: It depends on whom you are
dealing with, right?
GENERAL GARRE: I think that's right. But
certainly there is an understanding that this is -- that
these isolated --
JUSTICE BREYER: Did the FCC explain all
this in its opinion when it said, we understand that now
we're going to have to -- every incident is going to
have to be -- have a 5-second delay and they will have
to have tapes, and we think it's worth the cost? Did
they explain all that?
GENERAL GARRE: It explained that --
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't see it.
GENERAL GARRE: -- in its decision in the
petition appendix here as to the basis why enforcement
action would be appropriate. Because here you are
dealing with individuals who have used inappropriate in
the past -- Nicole Richie had used inappropriate
language in the past. You had an inappropriate tape
delay, you had inappropriate measures in place to ensure
that expletives were not used, which in the Commission's
judgment meant that this would be an appropriate
situation.
If you had a different context, say a
sporting event where there is an isolated expletive as
part of a post-game news interview, the Commission as it
would under its context-based approach, would look to
all the contextual factors and determine whether or not
it was indecent in that situation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This Paris Hilton incident
was scripted. The use of the indecent word was almost
invited, wasn't it?
GENERAL GARRE: Certainly our view is that
it was pandering and invited. It could have been
expected.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wasn't there a different
word? Wasn't there a euphemism in the script? I
thought there was a euphemism in the script.
GENERAL GARRE: The euphemism in the script
I think was "freaking", and another euphemism for the
S-Word, but they obviously departed from that. And I
think the Commission --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it was sort of an
invitation. I mean, before she was introduced, said,
"Now we're on live television, you have to watch your
mouth", or something like that.
GENERAL GARRE: That's what Paris Hilton
said. I mean, I think the whole thing was set up to be
pandering --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It was a setup.
GENERAL GARRE: -- to invite this kind of
abuse, which is one of the contextual factors that the
Commission looked at, along with the extremely shocking
and graphic nature of using this language at 9:00 p.m.
on an eastern night.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you didn't fine them,
anyway, did you?
GENERAL GARRE: We did not fine them because
we exercised restraint in making -- in attempting to
make clear that the FCC going forward was going to
consider isolated --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because you had gone from
Pacifica until 2004 with a different policy, where this
kind of thing would have been okay?
GENERAL GARRE: We had gone from Pacifica
until 1987, approximately, in the Action for Children's
Television case, where the Commission determined that
that approach limited only to the seven dirty words in
Pacifica was unduly narrow and inconsistent with its
enforcement responsibilities.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Remind me about that,
because there was -- the statement that the networks
don't do this at all at the time of Action for
Children's Television, the fight was, was it going to be
from midnight 'til whatever it was. The networks wanted
more hours for adult viewing. They said the only hours
that the Commission gave them were hours when most
everybody is asleep.
GENERAL GARRE: But I don't -- my
understanding was that was not pertaining to use of the
F-Word. The networks' policies are at 86 to 88a, the
petition appendix, and described there. The D.C.
Circuit found with respect to that change in position
that the Commission had supplied an adequate explanation
under the APA simply by saying that its prior practice,
enforcement practice, was unduly narrow and not
consistent with its enforcement responsibility.
We think that the even more detailed
explanation here clearly satisfies the APA standard that
applied to the Commission's change in position.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Maybe I shouldn't ask
this, but is there ever appropriate for the Commission
to take into consideration at all the question whether
the particular remark was really hilarious, very, very
funny? Some of these things --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- you can't help but
laugh at. Is that -- is that a proper consideration, do
you think?
GENERAL GARRE: Yes, insofar as the
Commission takes into account whether it's shocking,
titillating, pandering --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, it's funny. I mean,
bawdy jokes are okay if they are really good.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL GARRE: Well, my point is that we
will take it into account, but I think you can recognize
the potentially greater harmful impact on children where
you have celebrities using particularly graphic, vulgar,
explicit, indecent language as part of the comedic
routine during a show that children are comprising a
substantial part of the viewing audience.
And that is one of the factors that is
appropriate under this Court's decision in Pacifica and
the Commission's policy to take into account the time of
day and the viewing audience.
JUSTICE BREYER: Could you review me to one
thing in the record if it's there, or just tell me. I
did find an explanation for the agency deciding that
"fleeting" is not going to be an automatic exemption.
They've talked about that.
What I didn't find is an explanation for a
second thing, which had to do with their first prong of
their former test, and that was the distinction that
used to be made between using these words as swear words
and using them as descriptive words. Now that, I think,
showed up in their former policy because they said if
they were used as a swear word we are not going to go
after them, at least not immediately. So that had to do
with prong 1, not prong 2.
GENERAL GARRE: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: So is there an explanation
why they made that change?
GENERAL GARRE: Well, prong 1 hasn't
changed, Justice Breyer, since the time --
JUSTICE BREYER: It hasn't?
GENERAL GARRE: -- of Pacifica. It has not.
It's the same explanation, whether descriptions or
depictions of sexual or excretorial organs or
activities, the same definition before the Court in
Pacifica.
And as the Pacifica monologue makes clear,
there were many both literal and non-literal uses of the
F-Word and S-Word and other words in that monologue.
So, I think the Commission's position is this kind of
language has always been indecent, which is -- what has
changed is it's now going to consider enforcement action
when is it's used in an isolated basis on a context-
based approach.
If I can reserve --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I just ask one
question? It's about the bottom line of your brief.
This whole argument has an air of really futility,
because the Second Circuit more than tipped its hand
when it said: And even as they gave a reasoned
explanation, we have grave doubts whether this would be
constitutional.
You suggested in your brief a remand for
briefing and a hearing in the Second Circuit on the
constitutional issue. So, is there a way that we can
say, well, really, this issue that's before us now is
ignoring the big elephant in the rule, room; we have to
get to that anyway?
GENERAL GARRE: Well, that approach would be
consistent with this Court not deciding issues that
haven't been decided below and the general practice of
constitutional avoidance. Now, the Second Circuit at
three different places in its decision, on page 2a and
page 35a, and at the end of its decision, made clear
that it was not deciding the constitutional issues.
Judge Laval who dissented didn't say anything about the
constitutional issues. So we certainly want another
crack at those issues before the Second Circuit, and
Respondents after all are not simply asking this Court
to hold the regulation of isolated expletives is
unconstitutional, but that any broadcast indecency
regulation is unconstitutional; and at a minimum before
this Court entertains that kind of radical
constitutional shift, it ought to have the benefit of a
court of appeals decision which actually decides those
issues.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could that be -- could
that be done without deciding this APA or are we forced
to decide that?
GENERAL GARRE: Well, we think the Court is
forced to decide that because that's the basis that the
court of appeals has invalidated the Commission's
action. The Court should reject that decision which is
incorrect under the APA and send it back for
consideration of the networks' other arguments.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General
Garre.
Mr. Phillips.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
I think I would like to start with
Justice Scalia's narrowest question in terms of the
easiest way to resolve this case, which is did the FCC
in its remand order in fact recognize that it had made a
change in policy and therefore dealt forthrightly with
the fact that it had made a change in policy. While it
is true that the Second Circuit was prepared to accept
the idea that the Commission had changed, the reality is
you will read that opinion without any ability to
discern that. And the need --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but doesn't -- doesn't
the ability to discern it come from the reasons given
for not assessing fines? They said: We are not
assessing fines. This is something new, and this is in
effect a warning to everybody that things have changed.
Isn't that a pretty clear indication that they are
adopting a new policy?
MR. PHILLIPS: It -- well, that they are in
fact adopting a new policy, I think that is probably
right, Justice Souter. I think the problem here is that
ordinarily when you are in fact forthrightly changing
your policy it is incumbent upon the agency to say: We
are changing our policy, we recognize we are changing
our policy, and here is the explanation for why we are
changing our policy.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are they -- are they
supposed to be more virtuous than courts?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, courts all the
time, you know, distinguish prior cases by saying,
"well, you know, it was dictum, or we didn't really hold
that and whatnot. " And I read their opinion as somewhat
the same -- somewhat the same thing. They acknowledge
at the end, and that's why they didn't impose a fine,
that although this, you know, nothing that they had done
up till now -- although their staff had -- would have
misled anybody; still and all, it wasn't all that clear,
and therefore we won't impose a fine. It seems to me --
MR. PHILLIPS: The only thing that's
strikingly different about that, Justice Scalia, is they
are very express in dealing with issue in the Golden
Globes order, which --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It --
MR. PHILLIPS: -- General Garre specifically
identifies. It's interesting, when you say where is it
in the order under review when they say they are going
to do that, he says look in paragraph 12 of the Golden
Globes order. And Justice Ginsburg is absolutely right:
this case came to the Second Circuit; the Commission
said No, send it back; give us a full opportunity to
explain exactly what we are doing. Thy take it back and
they come in and they don't deal with this issue.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well -- it was also, they
said, you know, we sort of made this change without
getting comments from the affected parties.
MR. PHILLIPS: That was part of it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Give us a chance to receive
comments and then -- and then explain.
MR. PHILLIPS: And then provide a final
reviewable order from the Commission, presumably that
defends in all respects that decision. But as I say --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What the Commission
said is that the prior decisions or guidance was
seriously flawed and we reaffirmed that it was
appropriate to disavow it.
It seems to me that is recognizing a change
and rejecting it. It's at page 82a.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. All -- all I am
suggesting, Mr. Chief Justice, is that there is equally
an opposite language in which the Commission -- and the
Second Circuit acknowledged this, too -- in which the
Commission seems to back off whether or not it thinks it
has made a change in this particular order. And it
seems unreliable --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That seems to me to
be the same question that I asked your friend: does it
matter? Don't we look at the Commission's order and
determine whether it's a reasonable explanation, whether
they view it as a change or not? It seems to me that
they kind of said you can view it as a change because
the staff had these decisions, and there was dicta; or
it's not a change. But the point -- important point is
whether or not they provided a reasonable explanation
for their current position.
MR. PHILLIPS: This Court said in State Farm
that when an agency changes its position it is incumbent
upon the agency to provide more of an explanation in
that context than -- than if it were adopting the
position in the first instance. So I think yes, if
there is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What it says in
State Farm -- what it says in State Farm is that an
agency's view of what is in the public interest may
change either with or without a change in circumstances.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The reason there is
a change is they looked at it and they decided it was
wrong.
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. Well, I -- I think it
-- we wouldn't be having this debate if the Commission
had simply dealt with this issue in the same forthright
fashion that it did with respect to the Golden Globes
order. But even if the Court accepts the idea that
there is a change, it seems to me quite clear that the
Commission has not even remotely satisfied its -- its
obligation to demonstrate that that change is not
arbitrary and capricious. And I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You agree it's
enough of a justification for the change that they think
the other policy was wrong? They don't have to say
circumstances have changed, the facts are different;
it's enough to say, "well, whatever the Commission used
to thing, we think differently"?
MR. PHILLIPS: And then explain why.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And then explain
why.
MR. PHILLIPS: And that goes into what I
think is the next point that I would like to make which
is the answer to the Justice Breyer's question, which is
where in the opinion does the Commission explain the
change in position with respect to the -- to the first
prong of the indecency standard, which is whether or not
these words inherently mean either sexual or excretory
activities; and there, it seems to me, there is a --
whether there is a change or not, the reality is that
from 1978 until 2004 this kind of language was used
routinely, without the Commission remotely suggesting
that every time it was used, it necessarily had a
particular meaning. And then suddenly in 2004, this
language has changed its tone completely, and there is
no explanation for what is different or what is the
reason for adopting that particular view. The fact is
that the reading of that is so fundamentally at odds
with the way the Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They said that. They gave
the reason for their current belief. They said even
when it is used just as a swear word or as an expletive,
the reason it has its impact is precisely because it
refers to these excretory or sexual activities; that's
what -- that's what gives -- gives it its zing.
MR. PHILLIPS: This Court expressly said in
Cohen v California, in talking about exactly the same
word, that it cannot plausibly be maintained that this
vulgar allusion would conjure up such -- up such psychic
stimulation. And if the Court would say that in 1970,
it applies with even more force in 2008.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's not the
Commission's position. The Commission's position here
is not when these words were used, people necessarily
thought of a literal meaning; instead, its position is
that the reason these words shocked is because of its
association with the literal meaning. That's a
different question than what was being addressed in
Cohen.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, all that Cohen says is
that you cannot immediately jump -- you -- it wouldn't
even remotely strike you that the reason the language is
being used is for its particular sexual meaning.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then why -- why do
you think the F-Word has shocking value or emphasis or
force?
MR. PHILLIPS: The same reason the S-Word
does; it's because in some circles it is inappropriate.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because it is
associated with sexual or excretory activity. That's
what gives it its -- its force.
MR. PHILLIPS: I mean, I -- to say that, I
suppose you can say it, but I don't understand on what
basis. There is no empirical support for that. There's
no --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course there is.
MR. PHILLIPS: -- anything in the record
that remotely suggests that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't use golly waddles in
-- instead of the F-Word.
(Laughter.)
MR. PHILLIPS: People use all kinds of
euphemisms for it, and nobody blinks about it. The
point is -- is that for 20-some years the Commission
didn't draw that inference, didn't reach that conclusion
and nothing has changed over those 20-some years.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, one thing has
changed. One thing has changed, I think, from the
record. And let me ask you whether if the Commission
had given this explanation it would in your judgment
satisfy the arbitrary and capricious standard?
What if the Commission said, you know, our
touchstone under prong 1 is community broadcast
standards. And we have assumed over the years that
people really didn't get too exercised by the usage we
have permitted. But we are now getting all this mail
from people who are very angry about it, and they find
it extremely offensive. And therefore, I guess our
prior community broadcast standards were wrong. We
weren't taking into consideration the way people
actually felt. Now we know how they felt, because of
the mail we are getting and we are changing our policy
for that reason.
Leaving aside the Constitutional sufficiency
of that, in the matter of arbitrary and capricious
standards, would it satisfy it?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think it probably would, if
all you are doing is looking at just the sort of raw
Administrative Procedure Act standard, as it would
normally apply to non-content.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, the raw APA standard
issue is what we've got here.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I -- I don't think
that's a fair way to -- to look at this case. Because I
don't see how you can -- it seems to me a completely
artificial inquiry to look at this as you're regulating
the price of oil going through a pipeline. At the end
of the day you are regulating the content of speech, and
therefore the First Amendment ought to inform
everybody's assessment of what can the Commission do as
it moves --
JUSTICE SOUTER: If that's --
MR. PHILLIPS: In a more content-restrictive
way.
JUSTICE SOUTER: If that's the case, then
the concept of constitutional avoidance is -- is somehow
out of this case and similar First Amendment cases,
because we are always going to -- and I -- when you say
you really cannot separate that precisely, we were
always going to be getting into the constitutional
issue, either expressly because we accept your view or
covertly because we said, boy, we know what's around the
corner. And so, if --
MR. PHILLIPS: But that would only be --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- if we accept your
argument, we have to change the constitutional avoidance
doctrine.
MR. PHILLIPS: No, I don't think that's
exactly right, Justice Souter, because the
constitutional avoidance doctrine is not going to be
much of a problem obviously unless there is a grave
constitutional threat. So, it's not every assertion of
the existence of a constitutional issue that suddenly
triggers withdrawal.
When you are dealing in this area, which is
content regulation and restriction on the basis of
content, it seems to me that's inherently a First
Amendment problem. And when you are in that world, then
it seems to me the agency, even in the APA context, has
more of a responsibility, or at least the Court should
say it has more of a responsibility to explain.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I thought we've held
that the Court can't engage in such expansion of and
additions to the Administrative Procedure Act. I
thought that was --
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the Administrative
Procedure Act expressly says --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- one of our landmark
decisions that what it says, it says, and we cannot add
additional procedures. You are suggesting we add an
additional procedure that when it deals with speech, the
explanation has to be really good.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not just --
MR. PHILLIPS: The Administrative Procedure
Act also says "not in accordance with law," which also
refers to other statutes and obviously the Constitution.
So, it's not as though I am asking you to add more to
what the -- to the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are asking for a higher
standard than the APA --
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, I am asking for a higher
standard under the APA because we are talking about
content-based restrictions on free speech.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is that
consistent with Vermont Yankee?
MR. PHILLIPS: Because it was not talking
about restrictions on speech, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you are saying
that we add to the APA when we are dealing with a
particular area. Which of our cases --
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which of our cases
supports that?
MR. PHILLIPS: This Court hasn't had to hold
that in any particular context, but the reality is, as a
logical matter, if you are thinking about -- you know,
there is an -- a restriction on "in accordance with
law." The First Amendment is obviously with law, so you
have that limitation. And then you have --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, maybe sometime
--
MR. PHILLIPS: And in order to avoid those
issues --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- to be in a
position to argue your constitutional issue, but we
can't assume that you are right on the Constitution in
applying the APA.
MR. PHILLIPS: All I'm saying is that it
seems to me a remarkably artificial inquiry, to look at
this as if you are regulating the price of oil going
through, to a pipeline as opposed to what you are
talking about --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You should have complained
to the lower court about that. You should have said,
please don't decide this on the APA issue. This is a
First Amendment case. You should reach the
constitutional issue.
MR. PHILLIPS: But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you went on the APA
issue, and then you come up here and say: I don't want
to -- I don't want to discuss the APA; I want to
discuss, you know, the First Amendment.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, Justice Scalia, I am
perfectly content to talk about the APA, because at the
end of the day, the APA --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The APA simpliciter; not
the APA, you know --
MR. PHILLIPS: I like the more complicated
version, but I am happy to deal with the simpliciter one
as well.
(Laughter.)
MR. PHILLIPS: But the reality that goes
back to Justice Breyer's question, at the end of the day
the important part of this is what explains this
fundamental shift.
Now, I think Justice Souter, you know, has
probably made a respectable argument on APA grounds.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Thank you. Thank you.
(Laughter.)
MR. PHILLIPS: But unfortunately that's not
the position that the FCC took.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He does good stuff now and
then.
(Laughter.)
MR. PHILLIPS: I have nothing but the
highest regard for him.
But the other -- the other part of this case
that seems to have gotten lost track of is that this is
not a statute that -- that the Commission has the
responsibility to enforce. This is a criminal statute.
This is section 1464. And through section 503, the
Commission doesn't have broad-based discretion to define
for itself these terms. The Commission has to decide
what is indecent within the meaning of a Federal
criminal statute, which means we are entitled to the
rule of lenity, which means we are entitled to an
interpretation of that first prong which, in dealing
with indecency, says that it has to describe or depict
sexual activity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, when you talk
about the rule of lenity, I mean, the point is that this
change -- if there is a change in policy or whether it's
adequately explained -- simply gets you in the door.
They say then, once you are there, we just look at all
of the circumstances and the context. So, we don't --
it seems to me in their enforcement decisions, their
decision not to impose sanctions, their decision not to
have this count against you in future proceedings, they
are being very lenient.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, they are being lenient
in one sense. I think you have to step back,
Mr. Chief Justice, and recognize what the -- what we've
got here. We are talking about an extraordinary in
terrorem regime that the FCC has created. And I would
commend to you all the amicus briefs from the NAB, from
the former FCC officials, and from others who describe
in exquisite detail the chilling effect that this
particular scheme may have.
To be sure, you know, Fox isn't being
immediately penalized by this, but to go back to
Justice Breyer's question of General Garre, what he said
-- you know, does everybody have everything on tape and
delaying? No, of course not. And why not? Because it
may be one thing for Fox to be able to put a show like
this on a delayed basis, but if you are dealing with a
local television station that is just getting by
hand-to-mouth, and they want to televise a football
game, and in the middle of that football game some
student decides to express himself in ways that
nobody anticipated --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And this is where
the context comes in. At least with impressionable
children, that's dramatically different from saying here
is an awards show, here is a celebrity, I want to listen
to what they are going to say because I listen to their
music, and he comes out with that, as opposed to a
football. They know that, you know, somebody says a bad
word in the middle of the interview. The context makes
all the difference in the world.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I'm not sure that -- I
mean, I don't remember the FCC being in a position to
describe how children are able to perceive one set of
uses of the word as opposed to another set of uses of
the word. But what I think this Court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They perceive that.
They know. I mean, it's one thing to use the word in,
say, Saving Private Ryan, when your arm gets blown off.
It's another thing to do it when you are standing up at
an awards ceremony.
MR. PHILLIPS: You can't seriously believe
that the average nine-year-old, first of all, who is
probably more horrified by the arm being blown off to
begin with, but putting that aside, you -- it cannot
possibly be that the child has more of a reaction to
that word in that context than if a young high school
football player is running down the field screaming a
particular expletive.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why -- the young
football player is not a celebrity that they follow.
MR. PHILLIPS: The young high school player
actually might be more of a celebrity in some
communities than -- at least than where I live, and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The point is whether
they are or not is the contextual determination that the
FCC can undertake. All they are saying is that just
because it's used once doesn't mean you are out of the
-- out of the woods altogether. Let's look at it, and
if it turns out there's no -- I mean, this is the point
they make, that in one context, it's completely
gratuitous; in the other context, it's not.
MR. PHILLIPS: But the problem is,
Mr. Chief Justice, once you open the door, then you end
up with all of the vagueness and overbreadth problems
that are inherent in this regime.
JUSTICE SCALIA: These arguments apply not
just to the isolated, once-upon-a-time use, but even to
continued use. You could say the same thing about just
filling a program with these expletives, right?
MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Scalia, you could say
the same thing --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not --
MR. PHILLIPS: -- but we're not saying the
same thing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not, I suppose, what
you are arguing against here, is it?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, because the point we are
making here is that we haven't asked this Court to
revisit Pacifica. And the point is that when you move
away from Pacifica, which is the verbal shock treatment
formulation, and say, you know, that's perfectly
consistent with the First Amendment and with everything
that agency decisionmaking requires, and say that's all
right -- when you shift from that, which is an enormous
switchover, and go into fleeting expletives, then it's a
fundamental -- all we're saying is that's a
fundamentally different issue and that implicates more
serious First Amendment issues, because everybody knows
what is something that is verbal shock treatment or at
least we know how to stay pretty far away from it;
whereas, if I say every fleeting expletive potentially
exposes every broadcaster to $325,000 fines made solely
at the discretion of five individuals, unelected, that
impresses me, Your Honors, as simply an inappropriate
problem, and one that just follows naturally,
Mr. Chief Justice, from saying, well, all we are going
to do is open the door. Because once you open the door,
it is clearly a Pandora's box we are talking about.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then why do your
clients not use these words between 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m.?
MR. PHILLIPS: Because it affects audience
share. There are some people --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why do you think it
affects audience share?
MR. PHILLIPS: Because some people are
offended it; not the whole community. There are
probably a lot of people who would actually prefer to
have more of it. But some --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you can take that
into consideration, why can't the FCC make the same
determination, that there may be some people offended by
this, and if there are some people, as part of our
statutory responsibility, we are going to look at it.
Not that they automatically impose --
MR. PHILLIPS: But that's a heckler's veto.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not that they
automatically impose a sanction, but that they're going
to look at it.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, first of all, that's a
heckler's veto, and there have been long holdings in
this Court that suggest simply pandering to one small
segment of the population is no way to enforce First
Amendment rights. So that's -- I mean, that's my
primary answer to that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There goes Pacifica.
MR. PHILLIPS: No, I don't think there goes
Pacifica, because Pacifica was only one person --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that a --
MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that a heckler's
veto?
MR. PHILLIPS: No. What --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if people like, you
know, going on and on with expletives and offensive
words? Are those of us who are offended by that
hecklers and you can't take our positions into account
because you're giving effect to a heckler? I mean -- I
don't think so.
MR. PHILLIPS: But the problem is that the
Chief Justice's question was: Why do we have a 24-hour
rule.
And the answer is: It's one thing for us to
voluntarily assume that. I think it is a mistake, and I
don't know that -- and I don't think -- I didn't read
anything in the Commission's opinion that reflects it.
But they say that fact suddenly defines the community
standards for purposes of what is indecent and what is
not indecent. That simply reflects our own best
judgment about how to serve our audience.
JUSTICE STEVENS: If there is -- if there is
a change in the community standards, does that justify a
change in the FCC's policies?
And the second question and the reason I ask
that is: Do you think today the community generally is
more offended by these words or more tolerant of these
words --
MR. PHILLIPS: Well --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- as compared to what
Pacifica was concerned with?
MR. PHILLIPS: I mean I -- I believe that
society is significantly more tolerant of these words
today than it was in -- 30 years ago.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think your clients
have had anything to do with that?
(Laughter.)
MR. PHILLIPS: In -- in the scheme of
things, probably very, very little to do with that
compared to the way the language is used. Go to a
baseball game, Justice Scalia. You hear these words
every -- every time you go to a ballgame.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You do, indeed, but you
don't have them presented as something that is -- is
normal in polite company, which is what happens when it
comes out in -- in television shows. This is a
coarsening of manners that is -- that is produced by --
by the shows. So I am -- you know, I -- I am not
persuaded by the argument that people are more
accustomed to hearing these words than they were in the
past.
MR. PHILLIPS: But the -- I mean I think
what Justice Stevens is getting at is: What has changed
over the last 30 years? And if anything has changed, it
would be exactly the opposite, which is they are going
to be more and more tolerant of this language; not that
they are less tolerant of this language. And,
therefore, there is even less reason for the Commission
to have taken the position that it did in this
particular context.
JUSTICE SCALIA: More tolerant or more used
to hearing it?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think both.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Candidly, I think there is
a difference.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I am not saying there
is not a difference, but I am suggesting that there are
-- that the -- that the change over time has -- has made
this less of a compelling argument than it would have
been, at least in my judgment, in -- in 1978.
I would like to make a couple of different,
additional points. Another thing that has changed since
1978 is that there is much more opportunity for parents
to control access for their children because of the V-
clip. That's available.
Second, in terms of this effort to try to
lessen the coarsening of America --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure that works.
I haven't looked at the statistics on one-parent
families, working parents, and so forth. Those factors
both have to be considered.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, but if you put in a
V-chip, it doesn't matter whether your parents are
working or not. The truth is if you had had a V-chip
for the 2003 version of this, which would have said PGL,
which is for language, children couldn't have gotten on
there whether the parents were at home or not. The
V-chip is a usable and feasible technology and is a less
restrictive alternative than the one that we have on the
-- on the table under these particular circumstances.
The -- I wanted to go back to the -- to the
statute, the fact that this is a criminal statute.
Again, the Commission is not arguing here for broad --
recognizing, or accepting, or arguing for, that they
have a broad delegation of authority. They don't have
the authority to decide what indecency is.
JUSTICE BREYER: And you were -- you were
pursuing the practical thing about the tapes, and so
forth, when you got on to a different subject, which was
the -- the nature of the program. I just wanted to be
certain you are finished with what you wanted to say
there. I -- because I am interested in the practical
question of: Do all the stations have tapes? And leave
sports events out of it, and leave news out of it. Are
there other events that these small stations might want
to cover that don't have the tape or that now don't use
the tape; anything else you want to say about that?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I --
JUSTICE BREYER: I am interested in the
practical problem as part of this. Where do I look to
find out some facts?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the NAB amicus brief
actually has a pretty good description of a variety of
different instances in which this has -- has occurred.
And, of course, the NAB represents obviously the large
networks but also all of the individual stations. And
that, to me at least, makes a compelling argument that
you -- you cannot simply have one rule that says: Let's
just impose additional costs on everybody. Because the
answer to that is that those stations will simply refuse
to broadcast.
And to me the best illustration of it, and
the one that the public interest, I would hope, would
command or demand the Court take account of, is the
Vermont public station that refused to broadcast a
debate or -- or allow a number of Senatorial candidates
to participate in a debate because that candidate had
used expletives in a previous public forum, and,
therefore, didn't think it could allow that broadcast
and take that risk because it can't afford to have the
tape-delayed technology that you are talking about.
And -- and that to me is the quintessential
example. But there are loads of them, and it's just
going to get worse once you decide to get past the
notion that a fleeting expletive, no matter how it
arises, requires to you justify it.
Because we went from a system that said: We
will, in general, never condemn fleeting expletives to
the system that exists now, which is we routinely
condemn them unless we think its okay. And that's a
system, it seems to me, this Court ought not to
countenance. It is embedded in the Second Circuit's
decision.
The Court should affirm that decision and
vacate back to the Commission so that it can go forward
-- or to remand back to the Commission so it can do the
best it can to try to come up with a justification that
satisfies both the APA and the First Amendment that it
has not done so far.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Phillips, this --
this is similar to the question that I asked General
Garre. The Commission asked for a remand so it could
provide a reasoned explanation. But you had or your
clients had -- in their complaint they made an APA claim
as well as a First Amendment claim, didn't they?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, we did.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. PHILLIPS: I mean it wasn't a complaint.
Actually, it was -- it was a petition for review --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Correct.
MR. PHILLIPS: -- going right to the Second
Circuit.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. PHILLIPS: So it doesn't have the same
bill of particulars that you might otherwise have.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You could have just done
the First Amendment, but you -- you did put the APA into
it.
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. We --
we do believe that the Commission changed its position,
and -- and, again, we had to file a separate petition
for review from the remand order over and above the
petition for review we filed from the first order.
So, you know, we took into account this
assessment in saying we don't think the agency had
adequately justified its change in position.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question,
Mr. Phillips? I guess in the -- in the last analysis we
are trying to decide what the word "indecent" means.
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And do you think that the
word "indecent" can have -- that -- that a fleeting
expletive could be not indecent, but the same words
could be indecent if they are repeated several times?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think it -- at least to me
it's hard. I don't think so, but I -- I can understand
that Pacifica could be read that way, although in
pacifica, itself, George Carlin does, in fact, use the
fleeting expletive in an explicitly sexual way at -- at
times.
But I -- I think the hardest case, candidly,
is the situation where you have a string of expletives,
all of which are clearly not designed to reflect
anything about sexual activity and what you do in that
situation. That is the hardest case.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but I -- I am not --
not sure I make my question as clear as I should. If we
are trying to define the term "indecent" --
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- does the -- does the
number of times the word is used in a particular context
make a difference in the definition?
MR. PHILLIPS: I apologize. I didn't -- I
misunderstood your question. No, I don't think so. I
think the question -- the first prong of the indecency
inquiry is whether or not the particular language used
does, in fact, describe or depict sexual or excretory
activities or organs. And that's the No. 1 inquiry.
And I don't think the number of times in which you use
it affects the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: As a matter of statutory
definition, if a particular word can describe those
activities, it is equally indecent if used for a
different purpose?
MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I would have thought
that, since you were dealing with a statute that is --
that imposes criminal sanctions, that if you have those
two alternative interpretions available, you have to
choose the one that is more favorable to the defendant.
And, therefore, you would -- you would say that the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- would not be indecent.
That is the interpretation --
MR. PHILLIPS: I am sorry?
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- you should accept.
Let's say because one interpretation of an ambiguous
word would not be indecent, you are saying the rule of
lenity in that sort of approach would require in a
criminal case to just adopt that -- that definition?
MR. PHILLIPS: That would be my argument,
yes, Justice Stevens.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But that -- I mean you are
just -- correct me if I am wrong, but your colloquy with
Justice Stevens sort of is a way of phrasing the issue
in the case. Because you are saying, I think, prior to
this -- prior to the change, the Commission interpreted
"indecency" in terms of indecent practice. And what the
Commission is now doing is defining "indecency" in terms
of the meaning of a word. It's -- it's relatively going
from saying indecency is a practice, i.e., a repetition
of certain kinds of words, to saying "indecency" is --
is the use of any word which is itself indecent.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I -- I agree with that
completely, Justice Souter. No. That is exactly how
you can characterize it. I mean it may not be the
precise verbal formulation we used, but, candidly, that
is it and essentially the way Judge Lebal looked at it.
And he just said at the end of the day, because I have
to defer to the agency, I am going to let them have that
interpretation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that is not the
appropriate approach.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me ask about deferring
there. You seem to be suggesting that since there is a
criminal penalty for a violation of this statute, the
agency has no role in -- in defining what -- what the
terms of the statute mean.
MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Scalia, the language
of the statute itself would suggest that, because the
statute says that the Commission may find violate -- may
impose certain enforcement actions for people who
violate section 1464. That, of course, is a criminal
statute.
Therefore, it is not a statute that has been
delegated to the agency's broad discretion to decide
what falls within that language. It is within the
agency's discretion to choose a penalty that, in fact,
enforces that criminal dictate.
And to go back to Justice Stevens's
position -- I shouldn't give it as your position, it is
my position -- but the point, I think, we were
discussing, if you have a choice of two ways to read
indecency, you have to read it in a way more favorable
to the defendant, that precludes the approach that the
government has taken in this particular case.
If there are no further questions, Your
Honor, I would reserve.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Phillips.
General Garre you have two minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
GENERAL GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
First, Justice Scalia, it's on page 82-A of
the petition appendix where the Commission acknowledges
the change in the order at issue in this case.
Justice Breyer, going back to your question
about whether the Commission's definition of indecency
has changed, it is not and that is made clear at page
73-A of the petition appendix where the Commission says,
quote, a long line of precedence indicates that the use
of the F-Word for emphasis or as an intensifier comes
within the subject matter scope of our indecency
definition.
JUSTICE BREYER: It explained -- I mean, the
change I saw was that previously the use of these words
as a swear was treated differently from the use of these
words as a description. And that after the event, it's
not treated differently.
GENERAL GARRE: It explains on page 74 why
the Commission has determined that these words are
indecent. The Commission has only treated those literal
uses of these words as potentially indecent under its
contextual analysis.
We think that Justice Ginsburg's decision
for the D.C. Circuit in the Action for Children's
Television case provides a road map for resolving this
case, where the Court separately addressed the APA
question of whether the agency had provided a reasonable
explanation and then separated out the constitutional
issues, which this Court need not address.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Could I ask one question
that just occurred to me? Do you think the use of the
word dung, D-U-N-G, would be indecent?
GENERAL GARRE: I think it would probably
qualify under the subject matter definition, but it
probably wouldn't be patently offensive under community
standards for broadcasting.
The one thing that can't be disputed -- in
this case is that the F-Word is patently offensive under
community standards for the broadcast medium. This
Court has reversed the decision below on the APA
question presented and remand the case for consideration
under --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You have the F-Word in
there too, and even Judge Leval says he didn't
understand why that word should be on the list.
GENERAL GARRE: Well, we certainly think
that under community standards that that word is
patently offensive as well. And certainly, but we think
that the F-Word itself is clearly patently offensive.
We think that the S-Word is patently offensive. This
Court did so -- we think had that view in the Pacifica
case as well, because that, of course, is one of the
seven dirty words at issue in that case.
If there are no further questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:05 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
61:25 40:1 ambiguous applies 7:4 14:7 44:25
30:24 39:6,7 51:7 Amendment apply 14:25 37:6 46:9 54:11,12
57:9 address 3:15 38:19 40:10 10:2 40:19 39:18
adequate 24:13 America 51:12 27:3,18 57:12 29:15
42:25 55:11 Americans appropriate 37:16 55:10
37:5 38:25 52:22 24:21 25:18 assume 40:18
adopt 18:13,14 55:13 60:14 appropriateness assumed 36:15
53:9 57:13 angry 36:18 13:20 18:1 attempting
adopting 29:18 answer 16:6 approximately 23:13
34:8 53:5 arbitrary 6:23 11:1,3 13:24
8:4 30:9 affirm 54:4 anybody 30:13 33:8 36:12 47:11 49:6
19:21 affirming 17:22 27:17 area 3:18 10:22 automatic 25:24
afford 53:15 APA 24:14,18 16:10 38:16 automatically
59:20 agencies 7:8 38:20 39:17,19 argue 40:17 available 15:14
37:5 8:9,12,15 15:2 41:8,11,12,13 52:3,4 57:3
39:3,12 25:23 29:23 41:14,24 54:8 argument 1:14 average 14:5
5:2,22 46:14 55:10 60:18 61:7 10:19 27:7 avoid 40:14
11:19 58:8,15 60:19 apologize 56:13 28:23 38:7 avoidance 27:21
23:20 agency's 5:5 apparent 12:14 41:24 50:9 37:22 38:7,11
27:1 11:13 32:19 appeals 3:23 51:4 53:2 awards 4:8,24
60:16 58:24 59:1 4:17 5:9 28:9 57:14 59:15 5:20 6:8,8
agree 33:9 58:2 appear 6:3 28:19 45:22 44:6,21
34:15 air 27:7 1:16 arm 44:19,24 47:7 61:24
AL 1:4,8 appendix 4:9 arose 7:15
41:20 20:1 capricious 6:24 8:4,6,8,13 9:11 44:14 51:9,21
52:1 Breyer 16:4 7:25 8:2 33:8 24:12,19 26:12 Children's 9:23
59:3,22 18:20 19:4,10 36:12 37:1 29:6,7 31:5,17 23:20 24:3
52:7,19 59:22 carry 3:14 34:1 38:7 choose 57:4 59:1
Breyer's 33:20 2:5 28:23 49:9 51:3 Circuit 6:23
21:19 52:22 7:15 8:20 9:12 changed 5:6,7,8 28:2 29:8
28:15 briefing 27:13 9:21,24 10:5,5 5:15 7:12 30:25 31:22
38:17 briefs 43:12 10:8 11:2,19 26:14 27:1 54:22 60:16
bring 5:2 14:23,23 15:24 29:9,16 33:12 Circuit's 9:22
3:9 10:25 11:2 37:10,21,23 changes 7:5 43:2 51:25
59:16 13:20 14:3 41:3 42:9 56:1 32:12 citizens 14:10
44:22 28:5 36:14,20 61:19,20,23,24 characterize 26:21 27:23
55:5 53:6,10,14 cases 4:11 9:10 58:4 29:17 30:13
4:21 46:23 40:2,4 6:16 7:3,20 clearly 24:18
14:20,22 16:10 45:6,8 31:20 32:1,17 49:20 54:14
brought 4:20 certainly 6:20 40:4,12,16 Cohen 34:18
candidate 53:12 challenged 9:10 child 45:1 comes 44:4,8
compared 49:15 46:13 count 43:5 19:1,2
compelling 51:4 39:13 40:18 54:2 current 32:10
53:2 constitutional couple 51:6 34:12
6:11
7:10,11 40:25 27:14,21,24 9:2 15:7 35:22
8:3
10:2 54:18 37:22 38:1,7 58:21 61:19
13:6
14:6 37:11 45:16 40:17 41:4 3:11,23 4:17
41:12,20
16:2
60:20 4:25 5:9,11,12 58:7
19:20 complicated contemporary 6:21 7:7,23 8:8
23:7
13:22 9:17 10:20 41:16
24:6,13 complied 7:23 content 37:14 14:24 15:22 dealing 21:6,21
25:5 comprised 11:3 38:17,18 41:11 16:8 17:5,12 30:17 38:16
30:25 comprising content-based 17:20,23 26:19
42:19
39:20 27:19 28:3,7,9 43:22 57:1
concede 11:24 content-restri... 28:14,16,17 deals 39:7
36:5,10 concededly 11:4 37:19 29:1 32:11 dealt 29:6 33:2
37:16 concept 37:22 context 5:3 9:15 33:4 34:10,17
52:3 concluded 16:14 13:23 22:3 40:6 41:1
55:5
58:19 36:6 38:20 40:7 48:3 53:9 54:1
53:19
60:11
condemn 53:23 45:2,16,17 61:7,18 decided 16:1
9:6,11 Congress 18:6 contextual 6:9 30:5 decides 28:9
12:17 conjure 34:20 6:14 9:13 22:7 Court's 9:22,24 44:1
21:25 conjures 12:22 23:6 45:11 13:10 15:20 deciding 25:23
25:19 connotation 60:14 16:7 25:18 27:19,24 28:12
28:16 12:4 context-based cover 18:23 decision 5:10
34:24,24 consider 9:12 22:6 19:15,15 20:2 9:22,23,24
59:23 23:15 27:1 continuation 20:3 52:16 13:10 17:10,11
3:5,13 25:2 28:19 contravenes covertly 38:3 28:9,17 31:12
61:8 control 11:25 created 43:11 60:15 61:7
14:2
core 12:19,22 42:17 52:2 46:14
considered 8:22 corner 38:4 57:2,13 58:14
correct 54:20 58:21 59:2 8:19 31:14
47:13 consisted 11:7 57:17 criteria 7:23
39:5 43:3
61:2
descriptive 26:5 discern 29:11,13 either 7:2,20 events 18:23,24
56:3 46:24 58:24 33:24 38:2 even-handedly
9:3 14:13 disputed 61:4 19:17 46:19 53:4
15:3 26:3 empirical 35:20 exactly 31:2
12:18 22:7 32:4 30:6 48:4 50:15 58:3
56:12,22 determined 3:19 doctrine 16:14 enforcement example 9:9
59:23 6:11 10:11 38:8,11 3:19 4:20 5:2 11:6 14:23
61:1 11:11 13:23 documentary 5:22 9:12 15:5 18:16,18
determining 5:1 doing 31:2 37:4 24:15,16 27:1 53:18
7:24 15:3 57:22 43:3 58:20 exclusively 6:12
dicta 32:7 45:19 47:3,3 engage 38:24 26:18
different 5:17 dropping 11:9 19:10 23:13 36:16
30:16 33:12 D.C 1:10,18,20 episode 18:19 expect 16:24
46:18 51:6 60:16 12:11,12,15 18:11
10:12 33:14 E 2:1 3:1,1 ESQ 1:17,20 2:3 experience 14:7
44:14 dinner 18:8 eastern 23:9 ET 1:4,8 explain 7:13,17
directly 3:16 4:7 effect 4:15,16 euphemism 15:21 21:10,15
60:8 61:20 effort 12:10 36:4 explained 6:1
disavowed 5:20 efforts 3:13 60:8 60:5
factors 6:14 8:1 7:6 9:3 14:1 front 19:6 54:12 59:14,15
8:5,6 16:2 25:17 51:15 18:2 26:2 fully 7:17 61:13
25:23 facts 33:12 32:15 33:22 fundamental gather 13:13,17
52:21 37:15,23 38:18 41:22 46:17 15:10
29:25 fair 37:10 40:10 41:3,9 fundamentally gathered 4:2
34:7 falls 58:25 42:19 44:23 34:9 46:18 GEN 1:17 2:3,8
39:8 families 51:15 46:13,19 48:1 funny 24:24 3:8 59:15
60:20 far 46:21 54:9 48:4 54:8,15 25:7 general 1:17 3:7
10:6 22:4 32:18 59:19 61:21 5:16 6:4,20 7:7
45:4 fashion 33:3 five 19:18 46:24 futility 27:7 7:18 9:1 10:10
53:20 fast 20:20 flawed 31:15 future 43:5 10:18 11:18
favorable 57:4 fleeting 4:11 F-bomb 18:17 12:5,15,25
6:10 8:21 FCC 5:13,18 46:16,22 53:20 11:9,19,21 14:1,16,21
12:9,10 11:10 13:24 53:23 55:17,24 12:19 13:4,7 15:19 16:6
20:15 21:10 23:14 focused 6:10 15:6 24:10 17:4,9,19 19:9
28:4 29:4 42:3 7:22 26:23 35:11 19:19 20:7,11
46:16 43:11,13 44:13 focuses 11:19 36:1 60:2 61:5 20:18,21,25
53:13,23 45:12 47:17 follow 45:6 61:10,16 21:7,16,18
FCC's 11:16,18 follows 47:1 22:12,18 23:1
11:11,22 feasible 51:23 43:25 44:9 G 1:17,20 2:3,5 24:8 25:4,10
25:14 Federal 1:3 3:4 45:3,6 2:8 3:1,8 28:23 26:10,13,16
fight 24:3 forced 28:12,15 Garre 1:17 2:3,8 54:11 59:14,17
38:2 filed 55:8 43:13 4:17 5:8,16 6:4 61:22
filled 8:21 formulation 6:20 7:7,18 9:1 generally 13:4
final 31:10 forthright 33:2 13:9,14,18 getting 31:6
36:19 36:18 52:21 forum 53:13 17:4,9,19 19:9 Ginsburg 7:10
forward 23:14 19:19 20:7,11 8:17 11:15
29:5,7 fines 29:14,15 43:16,21 23:5,12,19 30:24 54:10,17
34:8 46:23 freaking 22:19 24:8 25:4,10 54:20,23 55:1
52:2 finished 16:5 free 18:14 39:20 26:10,13,16 55:4 61:10
gratuitous 11:5 holdings 48:2 23:23 60:2
38:12 Honor 17:19 29:23 32:12 interested 52:12
25:12 Honors 46:25 10:1 11:14 interesting
6:2 59:15 hours 14:14 56:15 57:21,22 17:25 18:5
groups 14:9 humanity 19:1 59:23 60:3 42:19 57:7,10
18:4,4 guess 7:3 20:1 9:19 4:12 5:4 10:24 interpreted
43:17 36:19 55:13 11:13 12:12,17 57:20
49:25 guidance 31:14 I 13:11,15 18:3 interpretions
52:1 54:5 guided 6:12 idea 29:9 33:4 18:9 22:8,10 57:3
identifies 30:21 25:14 26:25 interview 22:5
hand 20:14 27:8 ignoring 27:16 55:14,17,18,19 introduced
18:16 43:24 image 12:22 57:11,21 58:1 invades 16:23
23:14 happens 50:5 immediately 60:12,13,24 17:15
24:3 happy 41:16 26:8 35:7 indicated 6:25 invalidate 6:23
26:7 harbor 13:9 43:17 9:17 invalidated 8:8
30:22 hard 55:21 impact 25:12 indicates 60:1 28:16
38:1 hardest 56:1,5 34:14 indication 29:17 invalidating
40:22 harmful 25:12 implicates 46:18 individual 53:1 3:23
47:2,20 hear 3:3 50:1 implicit 9:24 individuals invitation 22:23
48:16 hearing 27:13 important 32:8 21:21 46:24 invite 23:5
53:19 50:10,22 41:21 industry 15:5 invited 22:11,13
57:23 heart 5:18 impose 5:24 inevitably 12:22 involves 3:12
59:22 heckler 48:19 30:10,14 43:4 inference 36:6 involving 6:7
6:2 18:24 heckler's 47:22 58:20 information 14:17
33:3 48:2,12 imposes 57:2 16:17 17:22 isolated 3:21
52:23 high 45:2,7 44:4 38:18 18:10,15 19:12
51:21 highest 42:8 6:22 11:25 37:12 40:21 22:4 23:15
Hilton 11:8 22:9 35:14 46:25 insofar 25:4 45:23
11:12,21 history 8:22 21:12 22:9 instances 20:13 16:1 27:14,15
23:8 hold 28:4 30:7 incidents 20:13 52:24 30:17 31:3
40:6 including 6:14 insult 13:1 33:2 37:8 38:2
40:17 31:13,20 32:1 kinds 36:3 57:25 57:12 machine 21:2
46:18 32:17,22 33:9 know 18:25 20:2 lessen 51:12 mail 36:17,23
59:21 33:16,20 34:11 20:4 30:6,7,11 lesser 15:8 16:11 maintained
34:23 35:10,15 31:5 36:13,22 17:2,22 34:19
28:1 38:6,10,23 43:19 44:9,9 Leval 61:11 46:9
40:15 39:4,10,16,21 44:18 46:12,21 limitation 40:11 mandate 3:14
60:21 39:24,25 40:4 48:16 49:1 limited 23:22 8:8
knows 46:19 Lion 17:5,8 map 60:17
61:11 48:7,10,12,15 11:8,22 12:21 little 8:24 14:3 56:21 60:3
49:6 50:1,3,13,21 18:9 21:23 live 18:23 19:5,9 mean 7:14 8:20
50:24 51:13 23:8 25:14 19:16 22:24 10:7 13:6
55:1,4,12,15 49:25 50:16,17 loads 53:18 33:24 35:18
4:7,13 56:21 57:6,9 58:17,25 logical 40:8 45:13,15 48:5
57:15,16,18 large 52:25 long 48:2 60:1 48:19 49:17
7:3,10,20 58:3,10,12,17 largely 17:2 longstanding 50:12 54:18
10:4,14 59:3,12,18,19 latest 4:13 11:13 57:16 58:4,16
12:1,11 59:22 60:5,15 laugh 25:2 look 6:4 8:11 60:5
13:5 60:22 61:10,22 Laughter 19:3 14:5 20:21 meaning 12:13
Justice's 48:22 21:4 24:25 22:6 30:23 12:13,19 34:5
15:10 justification 25:9 36:2 32:3 37:10,12 35:1,3,9 42:16
17:1,7,10 33:10 54:7 41:18 42:1,6 40:21 43:1 57:23
18:20 justifications 49:22 45:14 47:20,25 means 42:17,18
8:12 launched 11:9 52:20 55:14
justified 55:11 Laval 27:25 looked 7:23 meant 22:1
justify 49:8 law 39:12 40:10 16:12 23:7 measures 21:24
53:21 40:10 32:23 51:14 media 15:17,17
lawmakers 14:8 58:6 medium 13:20
25:1,7 K lead 8:1 looking 14:8 14:3 15:13,16
26:11,14 Kennedy 5:5,9 leave 52:13,14 37:4 17:21 61:6
27:5 5:12 14:19 Leaving 36:25 lost 42:10 mediums 17:25
51:13 55:15 Lebal 58:6 lot 18:23 47:14 met 9:13
kind 19:16 23:5 legal 6:17 7:4 lower 18:2 41:1 metaphorical
23:18 26:24 lenient 43:6,7 12:7
31:4,8 28:7 32:6 34:2 lenity 42:18,23 M middle 43:25
Nicole 10:15 53:19 23:17,19,23 penalty 58:14
night 23:9 ones 10:8 48:7,9,9 49:16 19:6 20:14
non-literal 12:6 opening 18:18 60:10 58:20
non-literal/lite... opinion 21:11 13:21 16:15 44:17
44:8 number 10:25 40:23 44:8,15 paragraph 4:8 36:17
56:11,19 opposite 31:21 4:10 5:19,19 person 21:2 48:9
objection 13:7 order 4:1,2,8,13 Paris 11:7 22:9 17:13
obviously 15:21 6:1 7:19 29:5 part 5:14 11:7 7:19 13:3
occurred 20:17 55:7,8 59:21 47:19 52:20 59:20,25
odds 34:9 ordinarily 29:22 53:12 1:19 2:4,9 3:9
60:21 47:18 48:17 56:18 13:24 15:6,16 PGL 51:20
18:13 16:25 19:12 37:15 54:1 40:2,7 43:15 29:19 30:4,15
19:11 36:19 48:16 outer 9:19 45:4 50:20 30:20 31:7,10
24:1,4 61:2,5,15,16 Outside 13:9 51:25 56:11,16 31:19 32:11,21
28:19 61:17 overbreadth 56:22 59:9 32:25 33:15,18
officials 43:13 45:20 particularly 34:17 35:6,13
53:23 oil 37:13 40:22 o'clock 13:8 particulars 37:3,9,19 38:5
23:18 25:8 parties 31:6 39:18,23 40:3
19:22 omnibus 4:24 P 3:1 patently 61:2,5 41:5,10,15,19
22:5 once 43:1 45:13 pacifica 9:21,25 61:15,16,17 42:2,7 43:7
45:19 47:3 17:5,18 18:12 penalized 43:17 44:12,22 45:7
46:1,4,8 7:5,6,17,25 8:4 prior 5:21 6:18 pursuing 52:8 really 24:23
8:9,13 24:12 7:1,5 24:14 put 43:21 51:17 25:8 27:7,15
24:19 26:24 30:6 31:14 55:2 30:7 36:16
49:14,17 32:10,12,15 36:20 57:19,20 putting 44:25 37:25 39:8
50:12,23 33:22 34:24,24 Private 8:20 9:8 p.m 23:8 47:6 reason 8:19,24
52:18 35:1 40:17 10:7 44:19 9:2 32:22 34:8
54:10,16 42:3 44:13 probably 29:20 Q 34:12,14 35:2
50:19 55:5,11 37:3 41:24 qualify 12:17 35:8,13 36:24
59:4,4,5 44:24 47:14 61:1 49:10 50:18
positions 48:18 49:24 60:25 question 7:3 9:5 reasonable 32:4
58:2 possibly 45:1 61:2 16:7 18:21 32:9 60:19
59:13 post-game 22:5 problem 29:21 24:22 27:6 reasonably
60:13 52:20 41:20 43:18 16:2 27:9
21:24 52:8,12,20 45:20 52:13 54:11 reasons 29:13
24:15 27:20 38:25 39:3,7 56:15 59:22 2:7 59:15
precise 58:5 43:5 quintessential recognized 4:18
33:19 precludes 59:8 52:10 quote 60:1 13:11
42:23 prefer 47:14 programming recognizing
46:8 prepared 29:8 10:11 18:4 R 10:22 31:17
59:5 present 8:10 19:10,20 R 3:1 52:4
15:4 15:25 50:4 36:14 42:19 rationale 17:2,5 reconsidering
49:9 61:8 56:15 17:6,13 3:18
5:6,15,24 31:11 provide 31:10 reach 36:6 41:3 35:23 36:10
7:9,12,14 pretty 29:17 32:13 54:13 reaction 45:1 Red 17:5,5,7
9:6,11 46:21 52:23 provided 3:22 read 17:9,11 reference 12:3
23:17 previous 53:13 8:5 16:2 32:9 29:10 30:8 refers 34:15
26:6 previously 60:6 60:19 49:1 55:22 39:13
price 37:13 provides 60:17 59:6,7 reflect 56:3
40:22 psychic 34:20 reading 9:21,23 reflected 15:20
33:11 primary 48:6 public 14:9 34:9 reflection 14:14
42:24 prime-time 32:19 53:8,10 reaffirmed 14:17
59:11 46:15 54:21 saying 6:2 11:8 27:21 28:2
40:22 14:22 19:9 6:16 7:3 10:4 47:2 51:1 section 42:13,13
38:17 respectable 14:12 15:10 57:24,25 see 20:3 21:17
7:12,19 24:16 38:21,22 47:16,23 58:10 4:13 5:25 separate 37:25
29:5 42:12 47:20 59:12 61:22 12:23 13:12,16 55:6
55:7 rest 17:12 role 58:15 20:16,19,24 separated 60:20
restraint 10:12 room 27:16 21:5 22:9,22 separately 60:18
38:17 40:9 53:24 31:4,8 34:11 44:22
39:20,24 27:16 42:18,23 39:4,10,16 Sesame 18:17
reversed 61:7 57:11 41:13 42:4 23:2 44:14,15
35:8,24 54:19 55:7,8 10:7 44:19 49:20 50:1,3 61:20
9:7,9,11 revisit 46:10 S 2:1 3:1 Scalia's 5:14 26:18 33:24
18:10,15 rewrote 5:25 Sable 16:8 29:3 34:15 35:9,16
rhyme 8:18,24 safe 13:9 scarcity 17:2,12 42:21 55:24
right 10:21 satisfies 24:18 script 22:16,17 shocked 35:2
13:2,21 20:24 21:6,7 satisfy 36:12 scripted 22:10 11:11 23:7
43:21 52:14 25:1 49:7,15 26:4,7 34:13 term 56:8
staff 4:15 30:12 50:13 55:12,16 60:7 terms 6:17 29:3
50:6,8 standard 7:4,21 60:22 system 19:16 terribly 15:15
16:11 17:2,23 stimulation S-Word 11:9,20 test 26:3
54:11 33:23 36:12 Street 18:17 35:13 61:17 28:20,25 41:25
standards 13:19 string 56:2 T 2:1,1 thing 7:14 18:13
28:3 14:2,5,11,15 stuff 42:4 take 6:13 8:15 26:2 30:9,15
42:25 14:18,20,21,25 subject 12:12 9:8 24:22 33:14 36:8,9
48:3 36:15,20 37:2 15:8 16:10 25:11,19 31:2 43:21 44:18,20
53:3,5 49:4,8 61:3,6 52:9 60:3 61:1 47:16 48:18 45:24 46:2,5
22:2,8 start 29:2 substantial takes 25:5 things 20:17
state 20:4,5 10:25 25:16 talk 41:11 42:22 24:24 29:16
station 43:23 suggested 5:4 tape 19:11,16,17 11:23 12:11
18:22 52:13,15 31:20 34:3 tapes 21:14 52:8 15:22 17:4,24
57:12,18 statute 12:13 suggests 35:24 53:16 23:2 24:17
37:7,18 58:18,19,22,23 suppose 10:4 51:23 53:16 32:15,25 33:8
38:6,10 statutes 39:13 14:12 35:19 televise 43:24 33:10,14,19
57:16 statutory 3:14 46:6 television 1:7 35:11 36:9
8:7 47:20 supposed 18:22 3:5 9:24 15:8 37:3,9 38:9
30:20 stay 46:21 Supreme 1:1,14 20:6 22:24 44:16 47:10
Stevens 12:1,11 51:13 56:7 43:23 50:6 49:1,11,20
55:10 56:8 13:15 14:13 voluntary 13:6 38:15
59:5 18:7 20:5 22:10 24:9 12:20 25:13 12:18,20 18:18
Turner 16:9 35:25 36:3 34:20 20:22 22:10,16
17:20 44:18 45:23,24 V-chip 51:18,19 26:7 34:13,19
35:1 two 8:4 11:15 uses 26:22 44:15 want 7:12 18:3 60:24 61:12,14
39:1 21:1 57:3 59:6 44:15 60:13 28:1 41:7,8,8 words 8:22,25
59:14 utterance 10:24 43:24 44:6 11:16,16,22
U.S.C 3:14 24:4 52:1,10 23:22 26:4,4,5
21:1 14:25 vacate 54:5 Washington 49:12,13,18
25:19 unconstitutio... vagueness 9:4 1:10,18,20 50:1,10 55:18
30:6 28:5,6 9:18,25 45:20 wasn't 6:21 7:10 57:25 60:6,8
50:2 51:3 underlie 16:13 value 35:11 17:1 20:19,19 60:11,13 61:20
56:11,19 18:1 varies 19:19 30:13 54:18 51:15,19
18:14 61:12 Vermont 39:22 12:7 16:22 worse 53:19
understanding 53:10 17:15 27:14 worth 21:14
50:16,17 undertake 45:12 51:20 36:21 37:10,20 33:1 35:7 61:2
unduly 23:23 versus 3:5 12:10 48:4 49:25 wrestling 20:2
unfortunately view 22:12 32:5 ways 44:1 59:6 57:17
60:7,9 unique 12:9 viewing 3:17 36:21 X
17:13,14 11:1,3 24:5 we're 21:12 x 1:2,9
unreliable 31:25 violate 58:19,21 we've 4:3 7:11 Y
4
1:6 3:4 4 1:11
5
26:9,13 36:14 5-second 20:16
21:13
13:8 47:6 503 42:13
1:15 3:2 59 2:9
16:15
61:24 6
16:15 6:00 47:7
4:8 5:19
14:4 73-A 59:25
3:14 5:23 74 60:10
58:21
3:14 11:4 8
17:20 8:00 18:8
34:21 82 6:5
17:18 34:2 82a 31:18
82-A 59:19
23:20 83 6:5
13:3 24:10
86a 13:21
26:9 88a 13:21 24:10
27:22
5:10 9
36:5,7 9:00 23:8
6:8 20:13 94 19:21
6:7 11:6 95a 19:21
51:20
23:17 34:2
1:11 34:22
5:10
11:2 14:14
13:3
2:6 11:3
