IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
AT&T CORPORATION, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-543
NOREEN HULTEEN, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, December 10, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
Petitioner.
KEVIN RUSSELL, ESQ., Bethesda, MD.; on behalf of the
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
LISA S. BLATT, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioner 16
KEVIN RUSSELL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 07-543, AT&T Corporation v.
Hulteen.
Mr. Phillips.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
When Judge Wood on the Seventh Circuit
addressed precisely the same issue that's before this
Court, I think she correctly observed that the
distinction between an ongoing violation that arises
with each new use of a seniority system and the present
effect of a past discrimination is a distinction that is
subtle at best.
But it is the line that this Court has asked
the lower courts to draw, and I think the majority of
those courts have actually drawn that line
appropriately, although you could actually probably
argue that it's more a scatter plot than it is a line.
And I think it's a scatter plot that essentially looks
to three primary factors in evaluating whether or not
this is a case that is more like Evans and Lorance and
Ledbetter, or a case that is more like Bazemore.
And those three factors are the stale nature
of the claims, whether or not there is a seniority at
stake, and whether or not the employees have fair and
adequate notice at the time of the action of the
employer.
Let's look at the staleness of the claim.
In this particular case, we are talking about maternity
leaves that were taken by -- taken by the Respondents
between 1968 and 1976. The information that's available
to AT&T today is simply whether or not these particular
individuals were paid for periods of time. There is
nothing more than that.
We have no way of knowing whether or not
these were maternity leaves or not maternity leaves,
whether these were leaves to go to school, leaves to
take care of -- of parents, or leaves for any other
particular purpose.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But at the time -- at the
time of the original reduction of credits, was there any
right claimed that any of these women had? I mean,
nothing had happened to them except there was a
bookkeeping entry. They wouldn't be hurt until they
sought retirement or sought some other benefit that
increased seniority would give them. But could they
have come into court just from, on the books of AT&T,
they were docked X number of days? Nothing has happened
as a consequence of that.
MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Ginsburg, they not
only could have, but they did. If you look at the
Eighth Circuit's decision -- and, indeed, Respondents in
this case did -- in the Communications Worker case out
of the Eighth Circuit, which is 602 F.2d 304, they
specifically alleged that one of the Bell operating
companies, one of the subsidiaries, had, in fact,
refused to grant these -- these exact service credits,
sued on that basis pre-PDA, and alleged that they were
entitled to relief.
The Eighth Circuit in that case looked at
this Court's decision in Gilbert and looked at this
Court's decision in Satty, and said specifically this
case is more like Gilbert than it's like Satty, but
never remotely questioned that that was an actionable
claim at that point in time. And, candidly, it seems to
me clear that that's an actionable claim because there
-- there is very little that is quite as critical in
this process -- in the employment relationship as
seniority. And -- and we are not talking about simply
benefits seniority here. We are talking about
competitive seniority.
So whether you have a -- a better claim to a
cushier job or -- or to better working conditions, all
of those are determined on the basis of -- of seniority,
which is being decided on an individualized basis.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it hadn't been
applied in any of those situations yet. At -- at the --
at the point when the person returns from leave and is
docked a certain number of days, it hasn't been applied
to any of the situations you mentioned. I grant you the
case would be totally ripe if there was a better job to
bid for, if there was an early retirement opportunity.
But here there was nothing -- nothing to be done.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I --
I question the premise that there was nothing to be
done. I think the average person told that they have
less seniority today than they had yesterday, and if
they were told that on the basis of -- of gender-based
discrimination or race-based discrimination, would say:
I am entitled to go to court today.
Not only do I think that that's the way most
people would react to it, but the reality is if you look
at the way the litigation arose in the Eighth Circuit
case that I alluded to earlier, these very -- the same
union here made exactly that claim prior to the passage
of the PDA. So the notion that the employees, one,
didn't have notice -- they clearly did have notice --
and, two, didn't have an incentive to act, they clearly
did have an incentive to act.
And I think this is not much different from
what the Court said in Ricks, which is that obviously
you have more of an incentive when you feel the true
pain of a -- of a discriminatory act, assuming the act
was in -- was, in fact, discriminatory, but the
obligation to respond more -- to respond sooner remains
on the plaintiff.
And, again, to go back to the point I was
trying to make initially, these are all claims that
arose -- these are all actions taken between 1968 and
1976. And one of the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- you have to, I
think, recognize that there's a big difference between
Evans, who was told, goodbye, you got married, you have
to resign -- a definite act that had immediate
consequences -- and this, where there -- there is a
potential for future consequences but no immediate
consequence of the kind that existed in your model case,
Evans.
MR. PHILLIPS: I mean, Justice Ginsburg,
there's -- there's no question that the impact in Evans
is -- is stronger than the impact here. I will readily
concede that. But what I won't concede is that the
importance of seniority is so far down the pecking order
or so de minimis in its impact that it would be
reasonable to assume that the average employee, told
that I'm am taking away your seniority on the basis --
on the basis of your race, would then sit back and say:
I'm not going to do anything; I'm going to wait until
the impact of that is felt.
To the contrary, you would expect, given the
-- the centrality of seniority as a term of employment,
that any employee under those circumstances would
respond, you know, almost immediately under those
circumstances.
The -- the second factor in this case that,
it seems to me, this Court has relied upon significantly
in the prior decisions that have come out on the side of
not allowing this kind of litigation to go forward is we
are talking about a seniority system here. And the --
as I said a minute ago, it's not just the rights of the
individual and what benefits she might be entitled to.
The seniority system obviously affects the rights of all
members of the -- of the seniority plan and all of the
pension plan and the entire system that the seniority
operates on. And so there are third-party interests
that are involved here.
And, again, both Congress and this Court's
decisions have consistently recognized that when that
situation arises, the resolution of the question ought
to be to say, no, these are present effects of past
discriminatory acts; we should be loath to try to
interfere with those -- with that seniority scheme under
these circumstances.
And then the third factor that it seems to
me the Court has been concerned about -- and it's one we
have been discussing -- which is the -- the -- you know,
the adequacy of the notice, where the employee is put on
notice at the time that actions were being taken.
Now, we can quarrel about how serious the --
the actions were, how detrimental they might have been.
But it seems to me there is no question that the -- that
the injury here is real and that the average employee
being told that you are being deprived of seniority on
-- on a race-based or sex-based or any other condition
that is protected would act immediately.
Now, it seems to me that the only argument
that the -- that the Respondents offer on the other side
-- and it's almost a mantra-like exposition by them and
it was certainly the basis for the Ninth Circuit, and I
think it's where the mistake arises -- is this claim
that this is -- is a facially discriminatory policy.
And their argument is if it's facially discriminatory,
then you can apply it now, and all of the reasons why
this Court has not applied these -- these kinds of
claims in the past in Evans and Lorance and Ledbetter is
-- is -- are off the hook in this circumstance.
But the truth is this is not a facially
discriminatory policy. In the first place, this exact
same policy was looked at in "SAH-tee" or "SAT-ee." I
don't know exactly how to pronounce it. And the Court
said these kinds of arrangements where you don't give
service credit for people who take pregnancy leave is
not facially discriminatory. So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that was when Gilbert
was prevailing. Certainly, we would not regard it that
way today.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I don't know whether it
would be regarded as facially discriminatory today. I
think it would be regarded as illegal today. Whether it
would be facially discriminatory I think is a -- is a
trickier question, because again it seems to me that --
that the other side relies heavily on the statement in
Lorance about facially discriminatory plans.
But what the Court described as a facially
discriminatory plan in that day was it was -- in that
case, was a situation where every day a male worker is
credited with a full day of work for a day's -- a day's
effort, and a woman is credited with half a day's work
for a day's effort. And -- and the Court said, quite
rightly, that's a facially discriminatory plan.
Well, we don't have anything like that in
this case. This plan was changed in the wake of the
passage of the PDA to bring it completely in compliance.
So the plan, as it operates today, is -- is not only not
facially discriminatory; it is in no way discriminatory
--
JUSTICE BREYER: Btu you -- what about --
I'm trying to work with this distinction where I agree
with you that it's hard to see exactly what it is. But
if I look at Bazemore, I think there we have a large
number of employees. And if you look at a complicated
thing, a salary structure, earlier, you see that that
salary structure systemically paid black people less
than white people. And at the time, for whatever
reasons, there wasn't a statute -- we assume that that
was lawful at the time.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Then later it turns out
that they are keeping that salary structure, although
not for racially motivated reasons. They are keeping it
simply because that's what it was. And the Court says,
you've taken that complex structure, and you are
administering it now, and the administration of it now
is what is unlawful.
Then, look at your case. We had a
complicated structure involving seniority, really. And
part of that old seniority system was this rule which
was legal at the time. It is no longer legal.
Now, we move that structure over until now,
and we see we are administering the same complex
structure today in the same kind of way that was at
issue at Bazemore. It's a complicated set of rules that
you have to apply today in order to see who is entitled
to what, just as they did that in Bazemore. So I began
to think, doesn't that, on the key matter, look very
much like Bazemore? What is your response?
MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Breyer, I -- I -- in
looking at this case, I have long thought of it as kind
of an M.C. Escher picture, where you look at it from one
direction and it looks one way, and then you turn it and
you look at it the other way, and it looks completely
different to you.
But I think the right answer to -- to your
analysis is that the way to look at Bazemore is that
every day after the statute was enacted, every employee
who showed up to work who was black was paid less than
every employee who showed up to work who was white. And
that, it seems to me, as the Court said in Bazemore,
unanimously and without a whole lot of fanfare, is just
something simply illegal under Title VII under those
circumstances.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but why can't you make
exactly the same kind of analysis here? People here are
not showing up for work. They are staying home and
getting retirement benefits. And every day a person who
was out for 90 days because of a physical illness other
than pregnancy is getting a retirement benefit with an
extra dollar. And everybody who was out -- who was out
for 90 days for maternity is only getting an extra 33
cents. And -- and why isn't the payment of the
retirement benefit exactly on par with the payment of
the salary in Bazemore?
MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I mean, I think the
answer to that, Justice Souter, is that's not -- that's
certainly not an implausible way of trying to look at
this problem, but if you look at the language of this
Court two terms ago in Ledbetter, and I'll quote it for
you: "The fact that pre-charging period discrimination
adversely affects the calculation of a neutral factor
like seniority" -- which is what we are talking about
here -- "that is used in determining future pay" --
which is the benefits from this program -- "does not
mean that each new paycheck constitutes a new violation
and restarts the EEOC charging period."
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, do you -- do you see
Ledbetter in effect as -- as overruling Bazemore?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, I think Ledbetter deals
with Bazemore in the context of a -- of a true seniority
system and an arrangement in which what you are looking
at -- because our case is a fortiori from -- from Evans
and -- and Ledbetter because, remember, we are talking
about a situation where what we did at the time, in our
judgment, was perfectly legal.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And -- and at the time, in
Bazemore, that the private employers discriminated for
racial purposes, that was not unconstitutional or
illegal, either.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, I understand that, but
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: At that time, even --
MR. PHILLIPS: And then --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- even more so. You --
you've said several times that it was perfectly legal,
but isn't it true that the law in all of the circuits
was the other way, and it wasn't until this Court
decided the Gilbert case that the law changed? But if
you were -- if you were an employer and you were
advising a client in, say, 1975, look to see where the
circuits were, the circuits said, yes, discrimination on
the basis of pregnancy is surely discrimination on the
basis of sex. It wasn't until this Court decided first
the Aiello case and then Gilbert that -- that that law
changed. But --
MR. PHILLIPS: I mean, I understand that,
Justice Ginsburg, and obviously we don't quarrel with
that. The problem obviously is the Court did decide
Gilbert; the Court didn't say the law changed. It was
the way the Court interpreted the statute at the time,
and under the interpretation of Gilbert and Satty, what
we did was perfectly legal, and when the statute
changed, what we did was to bring ourselves into
assiduous compliance with that position, Justice Souter,
which is what I think distinguishes --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but I mean, that --
with respect, I think that sort of begs the question
because if Bazemore is the right template for analyzing
this case, then you're not in compliance when you --
when your payment of the pension benefit reflects the
pregnancy differential.
MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Souter, there's no
question that you can read Bazemore that way. I just
think that the way this Court has read Bazemore and
Lorance and Ledbetter suggests that, in the context of
the case we have here, the right answer is this is more
like present effects of past allegedly discriminatory
acts and, therefore, not actionable at this time.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me just be sure I
understand one thing: Are you contending that the plan
is not unlawful or that the claim is untimely?
MR. PHILLIPS: We are -- well, both,
actually. We say it's not -- we say it's untimely, but
we also say that if --
JUSTICE STEVENS: At the time it was
adopted, it was lawful.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, exactly. And that
otherwise it would have to be retroactive application of
the PDA.
I would like to reserve the balance of my
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Blatt.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATT
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MS. BLATT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The Ninth Circuit's decision in this case
impermissibly imposes retroactive liability on
Petitioner, and Respondents' claims are in any event
time-barred.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Miss Blatt, that was not
the position of the only representative of the United
States in the Ninth Circuit, as far as I know, the EEOC,
the brief in the Ninth Circuit. We don't hear from the
EEOC in this Court, but I think it was not just that
brief but in the EEOC manual, they are taking a position
that is 180 degrees opposite yours. Am I right in --
MS. BLATT: You are absolutely correct. You
are absolutely correct. And Ledbetter -- this Court's
decision in Ledbetter, which was issued after both the
compliance manual and after the EEOC filed their brief,
explained that the EEOC is entitled to no special
deference on the interpretation of this Court's cases.
And the EEOC's interpretation is based on a conclusion
whether this case is governed by Evans or Bazemore, and
the EEOC hasn't purported to even discuss the
retroactivity -- or the retroactive imposition of
liability because the pregnancy leaves in this case were
taken before the PDA and, as the EEOC acknowledged in
that compliance manual, that denial of service credit at
the time was lawful under this Court's decision.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Would you -- would you --
excuse me -- would you agree that if -- well, let me be
less rhetorical about it. What if Congress passed a
statute providing that, starting one year from the
effective date of the statute, no pension plan will
differentiate in computing pension benefits on leaves
taken between -- as between leaves taken for -- for
conventional sickness and leaves taken for pregnancy.
Would that statute be unconstitutional?
MS. BLATT: Unconstitutional?
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes.
MS. BLATT: I think -- I mean, the way I
understand your case is that Congress can speak in clear
language to impose retroactive --
JUSTICE SOUTER: To make it retroactive.
Yes.
MS. BLATT: Retrospective liability. It's
just there's nothing in the PDA that indicates that
retroactive liability was imposed. And --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So your -- your argument
simply is a -- a purely statutory construction argument:
That isn't what Congress had in mind.
MS. BLATT: Right, and your hypothetical
statute would seem inconsistent with --
JUSTICE SOUTER: If Congress would have had
in mind, then there would be a question whether Congress
could do it, and you agree that it could. So the
question is simply: Did it or didn't it in this case?
MS. BLATT: That's right, and I think the --
the seniority system provision, 703(h), would just be
completely counter to that hypothetical provision
because Congress has taken special care to make sure
seniority systems can continue to exist, even though
they incorporate pre-Act discrimination.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was this statute effective
180 days after its -- after signature?
MS. BLATT: With respect to fringe benefit
programs, I think it was effective on the date it
passed. And there's no question -- everyone concedes --
that AT&T immediately came into compliance on the
effective date of the Act.
And the -- our key point on retroactivity is
the way to look at this is what the statute prohibited
and that is discrimination on the basis of pregnancy.
And the pregnancy discrimination occurred in this case
based on the discriminatory leave policies, and those --
those were all taken in the '60s and '70s before the PDA
was passed. And what the Ninth Circuit's decision does
is it orders Petitioner to restore service credit taken
for the pregnancy leave before the passage of the -- of
the PDA. And I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you -- do you think
Ledbetter modified or overruled Bazemore?
MS. BLATT: No. It just put it in context,
and I don't think that Bazemore deals with the
retroactivity point, and let me explain why: The -- the
employer in Bazemore who continued to pay African
Americans less than whites was ordered prospectively to
start paying equal wages for equal work, but
specifically not ordered to make up for past wage
differentials. And I think it's for three reasons.
What this does is much -- much more prejudicial and
upsets expectations in three ways, and this is some of
the things that Mr. Phillips talked about. And at the
time the pregnancy leaves were taken, the Petitioner was
entitled and probably required to make planning and
funding decisions for its pension liabilities.
Second, the Petitioner should not, 30 to 40
years after the fact, have to defend claims about
whether these women were disabled and actually unable to
work due to pregnancy, when medical records and
personnel records are probably missing and memories long
since faded.
And, third, the retroactive scrambling of a
seniority system upsets the vested rights of other
employees.
And I just don't think you have any of that
in Bazemore. The employer said --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, why does it upset --
MS. BLATT: -- you me to pay out money
prospectively.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So far as pension benefits
are concerned, it doesn't upset any employee's
expectations. The ones who don't have a pregnancy
background are going to get the same pension that they
-- they bargained for.
MS. BLATT: Well, I think of a pension plan
as a zero-sum game. There's a more limited amount. But
more specifically, there --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, but that -- I mean,
that's -- that's an issue that you touched on, on your
second point. I don't know if it is a zero-sum game.
And if -- if I were faced with -- with a problem, and I
may be, in which I really have two choices -- I've got
two analogies in our cases, I can take either one, and
there were evidence in here that the -- that this was
going to be so traumatic to the pension system that it
would be manifestly unfair and perhaps endanger benefits
for others to force these benefits to be paid, that
would be a good reason to go one way. But I don't think
we have that in the case. And --
MS. BLATT: Well, I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And if we don't have it in
the case, then this isn't a zero-sum game.
MS. BLATT: Well, we don't know what we have
in the case, because it was -- it was -- liability was
imposed on summary judgment. The class allegations are
15,000.
But my point on vested seniority rights is
that the class includes current employees. The
Respondent Porter is a current employee. The order in
this case is to restore seniority credit, I assume for
current employees, which will give them greater
seniority rights vis-a-vis other employees who have
planned their own issues about job bidding and
retirement and seniority based on 30 to 40 years of
expectations. So I --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this is not a
situation like Evans, somebody who was out of the
workforce for 4 years and then is going to come back and
bump some people who -- who filled in while she was not
working, and get that credit. This is quite different.
This is just a question of weeks.
MS. BLATT: No, I think some -- some of
these people had very significant disabilities, over 6,
7 months. But in terms of the fairness here, I mean,
the -- the female flight attendant was discharged on a
facially discriminatory policy of forcing married female
flight attendants to resign. Here, the two Supreme
Court cases have said that the decision -- as
inexplicable as it was, the decision not to treat
pregnancy as a disability was not on its face a
discriminatory policy.
Now, the PDA immediately overruled that, but
applied it prospectively, and now we are here 30 to 40
years later basically litigating the complaint that was
brought in the Eighth Circuit as well as the complaint
that was brought in the Second Circuit by the Respondent
here. They brought this case twice in the Second -- and
these are all cited on the Petitioner's brief and the
reply brief on page 17.
In the Second Circuit case, it was granted,
vacated, and remanded in light of Gilbert. And then in
the Eighth Circuit case, they actually lost on the
merits under Satty.
Now, the only thing that has changed is the
passage of 30 years and the PDA, which doesn't apply
retroactively. So I just think that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do I correctly understand
that -- that you would agree that if this plan were
adopted today it would be unlawful, but because it was
-- that at the time it was adopted, and the statute uses
the word "adopted," it was lawful?
MS. BLATT: Let me be very clear on this.
The seniority system in this case is facially neutral;
it just accords seniority to men and women on an equal
basis depending on whether they took disability leave or
personal leave. The leave policy that forced women to
take pregnancy leave as personal leave would be illegal
if it were adopted today, because the PDA says you can't
treat -- women affected by pregnancy have to be treated
for the same purposes.
So the seniority system is always just the
same. It says, based on total years of service, you get
pension benefits, men and women the same. In the
accrual policy, men and women were treated identically.
Just like in Evans, men and women were denied seniority
or service credit if they were terminated for -- for
charge, and there was a separate unlawful policy that
basically defined -- cause -- excuse me -- if you were
terminated for cause -- and a separate policy that
defined "cause" to say, well, if you were a female
flight attendant and you married, then you were forced
to resign. So obviously that policy was always
unlawful. It would be unlawful today. And similarly,
if AT&T hadn't had changed its leave policy, someone
could sue immediately. I mean, these women -- the
immediate --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before you -- do I
understand your answer to Justice Stevens's question to
be yes, it would be legal to adopt this seniority policy
today?
MS. BLATT: Yes -- the seniority system is
their seniority system, and it's completely neutral and
completely lawful. AT&T's pre-PDA leave policy. That
if you were a woman and you take pregnancy --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand, but
we're --
MS. BLATT: -- that's unlawful today. That
would be facial discrimination on the basis of
pregnancy, and it would be unlawful.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But even adopting
the policy today -- which I thought was
Justice Stevens's question, and maybe it's not -- that
would be acceptable? In other words, it's not simply
the fact that this -- the leave policy -- the seniority
policy was adopted during the time prior to Gilbert?
MS. BLATT: I -- AT&T could not adopt their
leave policy today, and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They couldn't adopt
the leave policy. Could they adopt today a leave -- a
seniority policy today based on -- today, based on the
pre-Gilbert situation?
MS. BLATT: Oh. Then I think you would have
a -- well, you would have an unlawful policy that
someone could sue on immediately, and it would be facial
discrimination, and we wouldn't be up here making a
retroactivity argument because no court would be
ordering them to undo decisions that were made before
the passage of the Act. They today would be making
decisions and there were nothing -- there would be no
retroactive imposition of liability.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms.
Blatt.
Mr. Russell.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN RUSSELL
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. RUSSELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The distinction between Evans and this case
turns on the difference between discrimination outside
of the seniority system which affects an employee's
ability to provide service to the employer, and
discrimination within the seniority system itself that
gives unequal credit for equal service.
Congress drew that line, adopting one that
this Court had referred to in Lorance, when it passed
section 706(e)(2) of Title VII, which provided that a
facially discriminatory seniority system can be
challenged, not only when --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask a question? If
there is a facially discriminatory system, are you
saying this is a disparate impact case or a disparate
treatment case?
MR. RUSSELL: This is a disparate treatment
case.
JUSTICE STEVENS: When did the -- when did
the intentional discrimination take place?
MR. RUSSELL: It took place when AT&T
applied an accrual rule to my clients' disability leave,
and said --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You do not -- you do not
contend that the plan was unlawful at the time it was
adopted?
MR. RUSSELL: We think that it was, but it
doesn't matter. Ultimately under 706(e)(2), what
matters is that the plan discriminated on its face. And
the insight beyond that -- and that doesn't turn on
whether it is unlawful or not. A plan that
discriminates against short people discriminates on its
face, intentionally discriminates on the basis of height
every time it's applied; and when it does, whether it's
lawful or not, is applied in accordance with the law
that existed at the time of the application.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, let me ask you this
question: At the time the plan was adopted,
discrimination on the basis of pregnancy was not
discrimination on the basis of sex, according to the
majority in Gilbert.
MR. RUSSELL: That's correct.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Which I happen to disagree
with.
So as a matter of law, it seems to me at the
time the plan was adopted it was a lawful plan.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, we think it was unlawful
for two reasons, and one is that it was unlawful under
Satty. Now, I acknowledge --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Under what?
MR. RUSSELL: Under Satty, under the Court's
decision in Satty that said discrimination with respect
to seniority had an unlawful discriminatory impact on
the basis of sex.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was -- that was
coming back to work and having all of your seniority
stripped. Is that --
MR. RUSSELL: That is correct, but we don't
think that there's a distinction because what the Court
said was that the injury is cognizable because it
affects employment opportunities.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but I thought the
question was whether it was unlawful at the time, before
the later statute.
MR. RUSSELL: Yes, and we think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and you say that,
even though discriminating against pregnancy leave was
itself lawful, a retirement plan that did not give you
credit for the time of that pregnancy leave was
unlawful?
MR. RUSSELL: No. Let me be clear. We
think that at the time our clients took their leave, it
was unlawful under Title VII and under Satty to
discriminate on the basis of pregnancy with respect to
seniority, whether it's the right to retain accrued
seniority or the right to accumulate it in the first
place.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you say Gilbert had
nothing to do with it?
MR. RUSSELL: Gilbert said that it wasn't
intentional discrimination on the basis of sex. Satty
said it had an unlawful disparate impact on the basis of
sex. But ultimately none of this matters, because under
section 706(e)(2), the question is whether the system as
a whole, which includes the accruable, discriminates on
its face, whether it's intentionally discriminatory; and
the insight behind that rule was, as I said before with
the example of a height discrimination, a rule that
discriminates on the basis of height intentionally
discriminates on the basis of height every time it's
applied.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could you -- could I
pause? I'd just trying to understand your earlier
answer. It just took me a little while before you got
off on the other point.
You're saying it was lawful at the time to
deliberately discriminate on the basis of pregnancy --
Gilbert -- but that that was somehow unlawful if in fact
your deliberate discrimination had a disparate impact?
MR. RUSSELL: Had a disparate impact on the
basis of sex, yes. That's what Satty held -- that's
what Satty held clearly with respect to accrued
seniority.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, maybe I'm
missing it. Isn't it a bit unusual to say it's
perfectly all right to discriminate intentionally, but
if it has a disparate impact, that's not all right?
MR. RUSSELL: That's every disparate impact
case. It's not that it's all right. It's just that
it's not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I -- I don't
think it's every disparate impact case. In a disparate
impact case, it's because you can't show, typically,
deliberate discrimination, so you look at what the
impact was. But I guess I've never heard of a case
where it's okay to do something intentionally, but it's
illegal -- to discriminate intentionally, but it's
illegal if that has a disparate impact.
MR. RUSSELL: Let me just be clear about the
terms. Gilbert said it was not unlawful intentional sex
discrimination, but Satty said that it constitutes --
that pregnancy discrimination with respect to seniority
credits constitutes -- has an unlawful disparate impact
on the basis of sex. In that sense --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but Gilbert
said it wasn't discrimination on the basis of sex,
because it said that discrimination on the basis of
pregnancy was not discrimination on the basis of sex;
and yet you are saying if there is a disparate impact on
the basis of pregnancy, then it is discrimination on the
base of sex.
MR. RUSSELL: Let me try one more time. And
maybe -- it's just to say that sometimes, intentional
discrimination on the basis of pregnancy can have a
disparate impact on the basis of sex. That's what Satty
said -- Satty said. But --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is your -- is there
any other -- can you cite a case to me where we have
held there is discriminatory treatment, but that's
lawful, but the discriminatory impact of that is
unlawful?
MR. RUSSELL: Well, I think a height
requirement would be intentional discrimination on the
basis of height that could have an unlawful disparate
impact on the basis of sex. I think it's a parallel
construction.
But, ultimately, I -- I don't want to waste
too much time on this, because I don't think it matters
because the insight behind section 706(e)(2) is that
every act that implements a facially discriminatory
system constitutes a fresh act of that intentional
discrimination. And so there's no question --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But does the statute use
the term -- does the statute use the term "facially
discriminatory system"?
MR. RUSSELL: No. It uses the term
"intentionally discriminatory system."
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right.
MR. RUSSELL: And there's no dispute that a
facially discriminatory system discriminates
intentionally. And so --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It is also clear that --
is it also clear that a statute -- that -- that a plan
that does not intentionally discriminate may,
nevertheless, discriminate facially? I think the two
things --
MR. RUSSELL: Well, again, it's -- it's the
predicates that change. It's a -- it can be a plan that
doesn't intentionally discriminate on the basis of sex
at the time, in the past. But when it -- but it's clear
that it intentionally discriminates on the basis of
pregnancy.
And so then the question -- so then under
706(e)(2), under this Court's insight in Lorance, the
current application of that system constitutes a present
act --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but that was the
current application of a system that was plainly
discriminatory, intentionally discriminatory. Lorance
was. They intentionally discriminated against women.
MR. RUSSELL: Yes. The -- the intent behind
the system is imbued in every application of the system.
So a system that is intentionally discriminatory on the
basis of pregnancy discriminates intentionally on the
basis of pregnancy every time it's applied. And the
question --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Go on, finish. I --
MR. RUSSELL: And, under Section 706(e)(2),
the question is simply whether that discrimination is
unlawful at the time of application --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand why you
say that the retirement plan is facially discriminatory
now. You contend that right now it's facially
discriminatory.
MR. RUSSELL: Yes, it's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me what the
retirement plan says is that there is deducted from your
seniority, for purposes of calculating what you get
under the plan, all periods in which you -- you were
lawfully not deemed to be -- to be working for the
company. Now, that doesn't seem to be facially
discriminatory at all.
MR. RUSSELL: I think it's -- the system is
facially discriminatory -- there are several parts. One
is: What set of rules constitutes a relevant seniority
system? And we think that the rule that says pregnancy
leave doesn't get full credit is as an accrual rule,
it's part of the seniority system. And that rule
discriminated on its face on the basis of pregnancy.
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but it didn't. Not --
not during the period for which it is used in -- in the
retirement system.
MR. RUSSELL: There's no --
JUSTICE SCALIA: After the new legislation
was passed, yes, pregnancy leave counts for seniority.
But -- but during the period before that occurred, it
was not counted towards seniority, and it -- and it was
lawfully not counted towards seniority.
So what you have is a retirement plan that
says all lawful periods of work -- all periods of work
are -- that lawfully must be credited will be credited
to the -- to the employees. I don't see how that is
facially discriminatory.
MR. RUSSELL: It facially discriminates on
the basis of pregnancy and then does so whether the
pregnancy discrimination was unlawful at the time or
not. And under 706(e)(2), that -- that facially
discriminatory intent to discriminate on the basis of
pregnancy is carried forward today in every application.
And the whole point of the rule was simply to say that
we don't want to force employees to have to run into
court every time there's some discrimination --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is -- is there a difference
between "facially discriminatory" and "discriminatory
impact"? I mean I can see how you could say it has a
discriminatory impact, but to say that on its face, when
all it says is that you are credited with all of the
periods in which you were lawfully working for the
company and you are not credited for periods in which
the company lawfully deemed you not to be working for
the company, I don't see how that is facially
discriminatory in -- in any sense.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, that scenario, I think,
is indistinguishable from what happened in Bazemore.
Recall, in Bazemore, that the basic rule is you get paid
now today what we paid you before Title VII, plus a
nondiscriminatory raise. And this Court said that that
is simply perpetuation of the pre-Act intentional race
discrimination, which wasn't unlawful at the time. But
if you apply that system today, that constitutes a
present act of racial discrimination subject to the
present requirements of Title VII.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did it say it was facially
discriminatory? I'm -- I'm just talking about your --
your assertion that it's facially discriminatory. Did
Basemore more say it was facially discriminatory?
MR. RUSSELL: No, Bazemore did not use that
term. But this Court, in Ledbetter, assumed that the
rationale of Bazemore was the rationale this Court gave
in Lorance, which was that it involved a --
intentionally a systematic system of discrimination
that, even though it was lawful when it was instituted
-- was first instituted, its carrying over into the
present era subjects it to the requirements of Title VII
now.
And I don't think it's -- it's fairly
distinguishable because what the employer in Bazemore
did is -- is simply what AT&T has done here. At the
time Title VII took effect, the employer in Bazemore
stopped giving discriminatory base salaries and stopped
giving discriminatory pay raises, but it just added to
that base salary in a nondiscriminatory manner, in the
same way that AT&T stopped discriminating in the amounts
that it added to accrued seniority.
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but in Bazemore each
paycheck was discriminatory.
MR. RUSSELL: It was discriminatory in the
sense that it paid unequal wages for equal work. And
here our pension checks give unequal compensation for
equal amounts of service to the company.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the reason for that is
because they adopted a plan a long time ago that was
lawful.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, the same thing was true
in Bazemore. They had adopted --
JUSTICE STEVENS: They're not applying a
plan in Bazemore. They're paying a current salary.
They're paying black people less than whites just
because they are black.
MR. RUSSELL: They were applying a pay
structure that was adopted --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, they were still
paying -- each paycheck was a discriminatory paycheck.
It didn't depend on history; whereas, a pension plan --
they always look at the formation of the plan. At least
under subsection (h), I think you do.
MR. RUSSELL: The paychecks were in -- in
Bazemore were intentionally discriminatory only insofar
as you look back to the pre-Title VII --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And that's what I disagree
with. It seems to me if you look at the present in
Bazemore, you find they are getting different salaries
because of the difference in -- one is of one race, and
the other is of another race.
MR. RUSSELL: And the same is true here.
Our clients are giving --
JUSTICE SOUTER: The -- the point that is
not true that -- that Justice Stevens is bringing out is
that, in this case, you had a plan which was established
at a time when the plan was -- was lawful. And, in
effect, you are saying there is -- there is no value to
be given to any reliance interest on the part of the
company that established the plan when it funded
according -- prior to the passage of the Act, when --
when it -- it calculated it's funding on the basis of
what was, in fact, lawful conduct. And you are saying
that is irrelevant. You didn't have that factor in
Bazemore.
MR. RUSSELL: It's not irrelevant. It's
simply something that this Court has traditionally taken
into account at the remedial stage. The Court has --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, how would it do that?
MR. RUSSELL: Well, the -- in Florida v.
Long -- there's a long line of cases where this Court --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you're -- you're not
asking the Court to do that, are you? You -- you're
saying, look, pay -- pay pension benefits to these
people exactly as they would have been calculated if, in
fact, their pregnancy had been treated as whatever the
regular sick leave was, so that they would get full
credit for the time they were out. You're -- you're not
asking for any remedial order that gives them anything
less than 100 percent of what they want.
MR. RUSSELL: We're not asking for that
because we don't think that there are substantial
reliance interests that are -- with respect to the --
the liquidity of the -- the pension plan that are
affected here. My point is simply that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: How -- how do we -- you
think that? How do we know that?
MR. RUSSELL: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: How do we know -- maybe --
maybe I can put the same question in a different way.
Let's assume -- and this isn't a bizarre assumption here
-- that we've got two lines of cases, and we could rely
on either of those lines of cases, go one way if -- if
we rely on line a, and go another way if we rely on line
b.
What are the good reasons, apart from simply
statements of the cases themselves, to go with the one
line or the other line? One reason would be reliance
interests in setting up a pension plan to distinguish
this from Bazemore. How are we in a position to make
that judgment?
MR. RUSSELL: I don't think you are, which
is why I do think that it's perfectly appropriate for
this Court to do what it did in cases like Manhart,
which is to say there's one definition of
"discrimination" under Title VII, and it's not going to
vary depending on whether we're talking about the
pension plan or something else.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but doesn't the
risk or the potential of a fixed-fund pension plan where
employees who are not parties to this action receive
less? Isn't there at least that possibility?
MR. RUSSELL: There's only that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And shouldn't that
possibility be weighed in the decision of this Court? I
think that's the line of questioning here.
MR. RUSSELL: And my suggestion is, number
one, that there's no realistic possibility of that here.
But, number two, that that's a --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And there's no realistic
possibility that some pensions are based on a fixed fund
which has been established already?
MR. RUSSELL: I don't think so. If you are
talking about a defined benefit plan, which is what we
have here, any increases in liability simply mean that
the employer has to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I take it that this
decision you want us to write applies across the board
to all plaintiffs.
MR. RUSSELL: I think that it does, but I
think that it could quite possibly apply differently,
for example, through a 401(k) plan where the
discrimination would have occurred at a time when people
are making running contributions. But ultimately, I
mean, I think that this Court has taken into account
those kinds of things at the remedial phase, where you
have an opportunity to look at the facts about how this
would affect the pension in this case or pensions
generally.
There's simply no evidence here to suggest
that there are those kinds of problems, because very few
employers as far as we can tell continue this kind of
discrimination. Most have eliminated it decades ago.
And we're talking about a small subset of employees and
relatively small amounts of money with respect to each
of them. So I think --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Russell, what do you
say to Mr. Phillips' argument that you brought -- you
brought essentially this case way back when, that the
union said that this retirement plan is in violation of
Title VII?
MR. RUSSELL: Well, first of all, I mean, my
individual-named clients didn't bring those claims back
then; and they lost, the union that brought this claim.
And then there were -- if I recollect correctly, they
were challenging at that moment the denial of their
disability leave payments. They weren't coming in and
saying simply, you know, the only harm we're facing now
is the prospect in the future of a lower pension.
And that's the kind of hypothetical future
harm that we don't think Congress would have intended to
be the basis of a lawsuit, not -- one of the -- when the
entire purpose of enacting 706(e)(2) was that Congress
was concerned not to require employees to run to court
every time there is some discrimination that affects the
amount of their seniority, because that causes a
disruption to the employment atmosphere, it creates work
for the EEOC and the courts, and in many, many cases the
marginal difference in the amount of the seniority
credit we are talking about here will make no big
difference at all to anything.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, when you say there's
relatively little amounts of money, can you tell us what
amount -- what the maximum amount would be involved?
Are you --
MR. RUSSELL: I think -- and we haven't had
discovery on this. I think there is a fairly linear
relationship between the amount of leave and the
percentage of the pension check, and so we're talking in
between --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would it be less than
$100,000?
MR. RUSSELL: Per person?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would it be -- for the
whole suit?
MR. RUSSELL: No. It would be more than
that. It would be about half of a percent to maybe two
and a half percent per person.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would that be a million --
a million dollars?
MR. RUSSELL: It could be millions of
dollars. And the plan that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that -- that's a small
amount of money, a million -- millions of dollars?
MR. RUSSELL: It's a small amount of money
to a plan that has tens of billions of dollars in it.
AT&T's last report to the SEC said they had a
$17 billion surplus in that fund. There's no question
that this is going to bankrupt this particular fund.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what do you do
about section 703(h) of Title VII, which -- which we
have held says that -- that makes it lawful for a bona
fide seniority system to perpetuate the effects of
pre-Act discrimination?
MR. RUSSELL: The distinction between 703(h)
and this case is that, in this case, we challenge a
system, a seniority system that is itself facially
discriminatory, and 703(h) says that doesn't apply --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That hinges -- that hinges
on your "facially discriminatory."
MR. RUSSELL: It does. And in addition, we
also have the argument that the Ninth Circuit accepted,
but -- that the PDA on its own terms says, that 703(h)
doesn't apply to permit discrimination that the PDA
itself would forbid.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, yes, that's -- that's
rather implausible, but 70(h) covers sex discrimination
and even race discrimination, but it doesn't cover
pregnancy discrimination. I mean, I --
MR. RUSSELL: You may think that, but --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You need pretty clear
language to persuade me of that.
MR. RUSSELL: I think that in the end, I
mean, it's worthwhile to focus on the consequences of
accepting AT&T's view. On the better view, it depends
mightily on whether an employer keeps a running tab on
seniority, in which case they can avoid the application
of the PDA because it made the calculation beforehand,
and an employer who, at the end of an employee's career,
simply tabulates the term of employment, which I think
under their view subjects that employer to the current
requirements of the PDA. And we respectfully suggest
that Congress wouldn't intend Title VII to turn on such
trivial distinctions.
Moreover, under their view, an employer
who -- an employer would be able to pay black workers
today smaller pensions than white workers who provided
exactly the same amount of service, if those black
workers started working for it before Title VII was
enacted, at a time when the employer had no pension
system for blacks and didn't give them any seniority
credit. That employer could say the same thing AT&T
says here, which is that the present disparity in
pension benefits is simply the present effect of
discrimination that was lawful when it occurred.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You mean there are a lot
more suits coming behind this one --
MR. RUSSELL: Well, I don't think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- for any kind of
discrimination that preceded Title VII? When was Title
VII enacted?
MR. RUSSELL: 1964.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There may be still some of
those people around.
MR. RUSSELL: There are. There are, but
it's very unlikely that there are very many of them
subject to this kind of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you're scaring me.
(Laughter.)
MR. RUSSELL: Well, let me reassure you,
because I think most employers, unlike AT&T, have --
don't make those kinds of distinctions with respect to
their employees who were hired before and after the
effective dates of the relevant provisions of Title VII.
And I think it's --
JUSTICE BREYER: I take it you are not
saying anything that is in effect and is still there,
you do retro, you win. I take it -- maybe I am not
right, but I take it that what -- what the point is here
is that you -- you took a complicated superstructure of
rules that was creating boxes and those boxes were
created on the basis of discrimination. Then you move
it, whole cloth, into the post-new world. And it's the
administration of that complicated system of rules that
was created out of the discrimination, but it's
administration today that makes it like Bazemore.
MR. RUSSELL: Yes, that's -- that's right.
That the present implementation of the system subjects
it to the present-day requirements of Title VII.
JUSTICE BREYER: It does that, but what I
can't figure out is does that have a lot of implication
for other areas or not? And the other thing I'm not
sure of is how it squares with Ledbetter.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, the difference between
Ledbetter and this case is Ledbetter involved
discrimination entirely outside of the seniority system,
and as a result, it didn't -- 706(e)(2) didn't apply;
this Court's decision in Lorance didn't apply. And
Congress enacted this 706(e)(2) to provide a very
special rule to displace the rule of evidence. It was
-- it was unambiguously intended to displace the rule of
evidence with respect to intentionally discriminatory
seniority systems.
MR. RUSSELL: Evans isn't a problem because
the rule they were administering in Evans is whoever is
hired is in fact hired at low seniority. Now, it's hard
to say that that's a complicated system of rules that
had a pre-existence, even though this individual was
where she was because of that earlier system.
MR. RUSSELL: Again, I think the distinction
between Evans and this case is discrimination that
occurred entirely outside of a -- the seniority system
and discrimination within the seniority system that
gives unequal credit for equal service. And Congress
said of that kind of discrimination -- we're not going
to make you challenge immediately. We're going to let
you wait until the reduced seniority has a concrete
effect on your compensation or other terms and
conditions of employment, and then you can raise it
then.
And the underlying thought of the provision
is that if you are subject to intentional discrimination
with respect to seniority accrual, we are going to
impute that intent to the subsequent applications of
that seniority system when it's applied to injure you.
And if --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I still want to go back to
assure that I've given you a fair opportunity to answer
this. You are relying on Nashville v. Satty, which was
a discriminatory impact case, and now you are arguing
that the key is the -- is the intent. Which is it?
MR. RUSSELL: We make alternative arguments.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Oh, okay.
MR. RUSSELL: We argue that to the extent it
matters whethers this was lawful at the time our clients
took their leave, it was not unlawful, and we point to
Satty. But we say ultimately that doesn't matter
because under section 706(e)(2), so long as they
implement, so long as they rely on the diminished
seniority in the present, that constitutes a present act
of pregnancy discrimination, intentional pregnancy
discrimination, which is unlawful under the PDA.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, as soon as you get
back to the intentional, you get away from Satty.
MR. RUSSELL: Yes, I agree with that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Oh, okay.
MR. RUSSELL: But I don't think there can be
any dispute that when my clients had their seniority
reduced, it was an act of facial pregnancy
discrimination; and under 702 -- 706(e)(2), that intent
to discriminate on the basis of pregnancy is --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But it was not unlawful at
the time it was done.
MR. RUSSELL: I do think it was unlawful,
but it doesn't matter with respect to 706(e)(2).
If I could turn briefly to the retroactivity
argument: It's important to be clear what the Ninth
Circuit held and what it didn't hold. It did not hold
that AT&T was liable for anything it did prior to the
effective date of the PDA. It didn't, for example, hold
that it was liable simply because it moved the NCS dates
or because it relied on them in any way before the
effective date of the PDA. All it said was that AT&T is
precluded from relying on that discriminatory measure of
service in the future.
And in that sense, this case is quite like
this Court's decision in Griggs v. Duke Power Company,
where the Court said Title VII prohibits employers from
relying on the results of discriminatory employment
tests. Now, nobody thought that that meant that Title
VII subjected to liability employers who administered or
relied on those tests before the effective date of Title
VII, but everybody understood that they couldn't rely on
those results after the effective date of Title VII, and
nobody thought that that gave the statute a retroactive
effect.
And that's all that the Ninth Circuit
interpreted the PDA to do here, is to prohibit AT&T from
engaging in the post-Act reliance on those pre-Act
discriminatory measures, that AT&T had every opportunity
to conform its -- to conform its conduct to the -- to
the requirements of the PDA, and a statute that simply
tells an employer how it has to treat past events for
future employment decision purposes is simply not a
statute that has a retroactive effect.
Finally, I'd like to -- if I have time, I'd
like to address this suggestion from the Solicitor
General's Office that this doesn't involve seniority
discrimination at all because what we are talking about
here is discrimination that occurred with respect to the
personnel policy about the classification of leave, as
opposed to discrimination within the seniority system
itself.
And this Court was clear in California
Brewers that an accrual rule that says how time counts
for seniority purposes is part of the seniority system.
And under AT&T's system, it's true you have to apply a
two-part rule. You have to know whether -- if you are
asked, does this pregnancy leave count, you have to ask,
well, is it personal leave? But that doesn't tell you
anything until you apply the second part of the rule
that says pregnancy leave counts as -- as personal
leave.
And because you need to know the answers to
-- to both of those questions, both parts of the rules
are properly considered to be part of the accrual rule
and part of the seniority system.
Finally, if I -- if I could return once
again to this alternative argument that we have, that
even setting aside Bazemore and section 706(e)(2), this
is not -- our clients weren't required to challenge this
discrimination before because it wasn't an completed,
unlawful employment practice at the time.
And, again, the point is that discrimination
with respect to a small amount of time going towards
seniority doesn't affect even the worker's actual
seniority, that is, her place in the seniority
hierarchy. A worker who is 2 years' junior to the
person who is next in line above her and 2 years' senior
to the person next in line below her -- 6 weeks of
service credit aren't going to make any difference with
respect to her place on the seniority hierarchy. It's
not going to make any difference with respect to her
ability to bid for jobs. And it's not necessarily even
going to make any difference with respect to her
pension, because at the time that these leaves are taken
typically, the person is years away, perhaps decades
away, from even vesting in their pension benefit.
And Congress reasonably would have thought,
I think, that that kind of harm is too speculative to
warrant immediate -- to warrant the requirement that the
employees have to immediately challenge that kind of
discrimination at the time it occurs. That's why
Congress enacted section 706(e)(2), to give employees an
opportunity to wait until the discrimination has a
concrete effect on their employment status, on their
compensation or terms of employment. And AT&T's view of
the statute --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you -- are you making
a claim that they had the choice or that the claim
wasn't ripe until they felt the impacts of it?
MR. RUSSELL: I think they don't have a
choice. They can't bring the claim until it has a
concrete impact.
Now, if 706(e)(2) applies, they can
challenge the system as of -- when it's adopted or when
it's applied to them, but otherwise they have to wait
until it injures them within the meaning of section
706(e)(2). And that's a perfectly sensible rule.
Remember, we're talking here about facial
discrimination, and the concerns about stale evidence
are not particularly strong here because -- and, as a
result, we are able to stipulate to the underlying
facts. Everybody knows what the system was and what it
did. And there's no reasonable dispute about whether
the reduction in our clients' leaves was as a result of
pregnancy versus something else. And in any event, this
is simply a consequence Congress must have intended when
it said that discriminatory seniority systems are open
to challenge whenever they apply to injure a worker,
even if that means that so long -- if an employer
implements a plan for 30 years, Congress understood that
that meant that they were subject to suit for 30 years.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Russell.
Mr. Phillips, 3 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I'd just like to make a couple of points:
Justice Ginsburg, you asked a question about the earlier
litigation, and let me just quote from the first page of
Judge Bright's opinion where it says the appellants in
the class action allege that Southwestern Bell
discriminates against women by, quote, "refusing to
extend full seniority credit to female employees on
maternity leave." That is precisely the claim that's
being litigated in this particular case.
And contrary to my brother's position just a
few minutes ago, that these don't have any impact and
why would anybody act on the basis of them, it seems to
me that that lawsuit belies that fact. They recognize
the impact on seniority, and they acted immediately as a
consequence of that.
Justice Souter, I do agree with you. I
think the reason that Bazemore is not the -- I wouldn't
say "line" -- more the point of authority to be as the
departure in this particular case is because of the
implications for the seniority system.
Justice Kennedy, the problem here is we
don't know exactly what the impact's going to be. What
we do know is that all plans are funded on a set of
actuarial assumptions, and, candidly, if they say we
were overfunded a couple months ago, given to what has
happened to my pension plans in the last couple of
months, I would worry a little bit about what the
situation is.
But the -- but the most fundamental point is
you don't know. And in that context, what we do
understand is that Congress routinely says protect the
seniority systems, protect the pension plans. You know,
my colleague says, well, but this is all form over
substance because what if they come back at the end and
decided to do all these calculations? That
fundamentally misunderstands the nature of the pension
process. You have to fund these in advance. You make
actuarial assumptions. No one is in a position where
they're going to allow the determination of seniority to
be made at the tail end without making assumptions about
what they are going to be like going in.
And, Justice Breyer, I think that is the
answer to your question because we are not taking this
complex system wholesale and just dumping it post-PDA.
What we did is we retained the specific rules with
respect to the accrual and the seniority, and we
eliminated the underlying distinctions between pregnancy
and other kinds of disabilities. And that's how we
apply it, and that, frankly, is fundamentally different
from Bazemore because we are not discriminating every
day in a way that harms them. We made a seniority
decision, like a pay decision, pre-Act; now we are
acting -- it's not a pay decision post-Act. And it's --
to my mind in that sense it is just like Evans and that
line of cases.
Finally, you asked the question, Justice
Souter, could Congress have done -- have done exactly
what the Respondents ask? And the answer to that is
yes. Congress could say today we're not going to allow
this. It would upset a lot of pension plans. It would
upset a lot of expectations.
Congress could have done it. Congress
didn't do it, or at least if it were going to upset all
of those reliance interests, Congress would have done so
in language that was much more explicit than what it has
done in the PDA and 706(e)(2).
If there are no further questions, Your
Honor, I urge you to reverse the judgment below.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Phillips.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:07 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
addressed 3:12 46:11 53:3 49:22 47:9 50:22
58:5 administered 43:21 2:2,10 3:4,7 44:20 45:23
administering analysis 12:23 16:21 18:21,22 authority 55:25
administration analyzing 15:20 45:10 50:20 average 6:15 8:4
57:15 9:24 B
35:2 38:11 54:9 apart 40:19 14:8 22:21 29:1
52:8,19 adopting 25:18 APPEARAN... arrangements 38:19 42:22
27:3 1:14 10:10 43:1 49:15
37:19 adversely 13:23 application asked 3:18 background
affect 42:11 53:4 33:20,23 34:2 57:13 balance 16:17
ago 8:19 13:21 45:25 40:2,4 bargained 21:12
55:18 56:7 49:12 assiduous 15:16 37:17
19:17 19:3 24:1 50:8 10:3 23:11 assume 8:4 19:22 22:17
32:20,21 55:23 27:17 28:4,5 11:19 22:13 24:15 26:3,3
36:21 Aiello 15:6 30:11 34:5 40:14 41:19
50:3,12 AL 1:6 49:13 54:10 assumed 37:3 Basemore 37:1
allegations 22:8 applies 42:1 assuming 7:7 basic 36:15
allow 56:21 42:4 45:6,12 56:6,20,22 6:17 8:5,6 9:23
16:5 allowing 8:17 52:14 54:23 atmosphere 24:8 25:16
alternative applying 38:6 attendant 23:3 29:19 30:1,2,9
16:23 appropriately AT&T 1:3 3:4 32:14,15 33:14
12:25 38:8,9 candidly 5:19 changed 11:6 24:5 29:16
43:10 46:9,11 56:6 14:25 15:7,11 31:14 33:7,8
50:14 blacks 46:14 care 4:17 19:8 15:15 23:22 33:15 45:19
Blatt 1:17 2:5 career 46:2 25:2 50:20 52:7
12:11,13 17:6,13 18:11 carrying 37:8 charging 14:3 30:22
13:2 18:13,18,24 CARTER 1:15 check 44:2 client 15:2
14:5,7 19:5,13 20:5 2:3,11 3:7 55:5 checks 37:24 clients 27:17
15:20,25 21:6,13 22:3,6 case 3:4,25 4:1,8 Chief 3:3,9 29:17 39:1
17:20 22:25 24:5 5:7,7,14,17 16:19,25 25:5 43:1 49:23
21:4 25:9,15,24 6:10,23 7:21 25:13,18 26:1 50:11 52:24
37:2 26:5,16 8:14 10:25 26:15,20 30:12 54:19
board 42:1 11:6 12:4,17 30:24 31:6,20 cloth 47:21
bona 44:25 14:9,25 15:6 32:7 55:2,7 cognizable 29:5
40:23 bookkeeping 15:21 16:3 58:1 colleague 56:15
52:23 4:23 17:2,20,23 choice 54:3,6 come 5:1 8:16
57:7 books 5:1 18:14 19:4,21 choices 21:20 22:21 56:16
2:4,6,9,12 12:16 47:14 27:10,11,13 23:14,18,20 5:7
16:22 48:3 56:24 31:4,7,8,10 45:10 50:21 companies 5:10
55:6 brief 17:9,11,16 32:8 39:4 51:15 company 34:21
15:22 bring 11:7 15:15 51:4 55:16 17:2 19:24 compensation
41:22 43:1 54:6 56:1 58:3,4 circumstance 37:24 49:6
bringing 39:3 cases 17:18 10:5 53:25
13:9 14:1 brought 23:13 39:19 40:15,16 8:11,13 9:7 5:25
21:8,24 23:14,15 42:21 40:20 41:2 13:5 complaint 23:12
24:16 42:22 43:2 43:16 57:12 cite 32:8 23:13
46:17 Btu 11:11 cause 24:21,22 cited 23:16 completed 52:25
C 2:1 3:1 cents 13:14 54:3,3,6 55:15 complex 12:1,9
43:12 contributions 17:25 19:25 41:13 42:1 57:6
18:9 35:2 40:1 decisions 8:16 differentials
54:7 3:4 49:2 53:9 26:10,12 differentiate
correctly 3:13 35:16,16 36:7 36:10 diminished 50:2
counsel 16:19 credits 4:20 5:11deference 17:18 disabilities 23:1
counted 35:12 critical 5:21 41:22 disability 23:8
counter 19:7 16:23 definition 41:3 43:5
27:3 counts 35:10 current 22:11 degrees 17:12 disabled 20:21
46:6 52:8,15 22:12,14 33:20 deliberate 30:19 disagree 28:13
49:2 couple 55:8 56:7 33:23 38:7 31:9 38:20
54:21 56:8 46:4 deliberately discharged 23:3
56:13 court 1:1,12 cushier 6:2 30:17 discovery 43:25
3:10,13,18 5:1 denial 17:25 discriminate
6:19 7:5 8:15 D 43:4 29:19 30:17
54:21 11:3,25 13:2 date 18:6 19:14 Department 33:10,14 35:23
13:21 14:24 19:17 50:23 1:18 50:14
45:22 16:1 17:1,10 dates 47:12 depend 38:14 14:14 27:24
27:4 29:4 36:2 day 10:24,25 41:5 discriminates
32:21 41:2,13 42:8 days 5:2 6:8 described 10:23 34:4 35:19
34:25 43:12 51:6 13:10,13 19:12 determination 55:13
50:3 52:7 day's 11:1,1,2,3 56:21 discriminating
32:16 43:16 deals 14:6 20:6 determining 57:7
9:1 17:14,18 53:15 detrimental 3:16 6:18,18
20:5 51:5 decided 6:4 26:23 36:3 25:16 26:8,23
cover 45:16 14:25 15:5 38:23 43:17,19 27:1,15 28:9
created 47:20,23 decision 5:6,15 53:13 30:8,19 31:9
32:4 3:16 11:12 either 14:16 24:7 27:2 extend 55:14
34:9 26:22 29:4 21:21 40:16 37:23,25 49:2 extent 49:22
36:2,19 45:3 48:23 eliminated era 37:9 extra 13:12,13
37:6 distinctions 46:7 42:16 57:4 Escher 12:18
42:6,16 47:10 57:4 employee 8:4,11 ESQ 1:15,17,21 F
45:2,12 distinguish 9:11,16 12:24 2:3,5,8,11 face 23:8 27:24
40:22 13:1 22:12 essentially 3:23 28:3 30:6 35:4
47:20 distinguishable employees 4:4 42:22 36:6
48:9,24 37:12 6:25 11:15 established 39:4 faced 21:19
50:4 distinguishes 21:2 22:11,14 39:8 41:20 facial 25:16 26:7
52:2,3 15:17 22:15 35:17 ET 1:6 50:12 54:13
53:2 docked 5:2 6:8 36:1 41:9 evaluating 3:24 facially 9:25
54:14 dollar 13:12 42:17 43:12 Evans 3:25 7:17 10:1,6,12,17
9:5,25 44:17,19 55:14 14:9 17:20 11:4,9 23:4
draw 3:19 employee's 21:9 22:20 24:18 24:6 27:6,9
drawn 3:20 26:24 46:2 26:22 48:17,18 32:20,24 33:5
16:4 drew 27:3 employer 4:6 48:24 57:11 33:10 34:12,13
23:4,9 due 20:22 15:1 20:8 21:4 event 17:4 54:20 34:21,24 35:18
28:23 Duke 51:5 26:25 37:12,14 events 51:21 35:19,22 36:4
32:9,10 dumping 57:1 41:24 45:24 everybody 36:11,23,25
33:2 D.C 1:8,15,18 46:2,4,8,9,13 13:12 51:11 37:1 45:5,8
46:15 51:21 54:17 facing 43:6
E 54:24 evidence 21:22 fact 5:10 7:8
35:18,23 E 2:1 3:1,1 employers 14:14 42:13 48:13,15 13:22 20:20
earlier 6:23 42:15 47:9 54:14 25:22 30:18
37:1,15 11:16 30:13 51:6,9 exact 5:11 10:7 39:11,24 48:19
48:22 55:9 employment exactly 6:24 55:20
45:6 early 6:11 5:22 8:10 29:6 10:9 11:13 factor 8:14 9:8
48:15 EEOC 14:3 17:8 43:15 46:3 13:7,15 16:14 13:23 39:12
51:2,7 17:10,11,16,17 49:7 51:7,22 39:23 46:11 factors 3:24 4:2
54:22 17:21,24 43:16 53:1,24,25 56:4 57:14 facts 42:10
30:2 46:17 47:15 enacting 43:11 24:21 fairly 37:11
31:2 49:6 51:14,23 endanger 21:24 exist 19:9 43:25
53:24 engaging 51:17 existed 7:21 fairness 23:2
32:5,14 effective 18:6 entire 8:23 28:6 fanfare 13:3
51:1,10,12 entitled 5:13 20:14 21:10 feel 7:6
54:18 45:1 12:12 17:17 explain 20:7 female 23:3,4
Eighth 5:6,8,14 entry 4:23 explicit 57:22 fide 45:1
57:13 gender-based Griggs 51:5 imbued 34:2 19:10
37:8 General's 52:1 h 38:16 immediately indistinguisha...
55:10 getting 13:9,11 half 11:2 44:10 8:12 9:19 36:14
15:6,11,13 5:2 36:14 56:8 impact 7:24,25 6:4
give 4:25 10:10 32:14 impermissibly injures 54:11
55:14 49:16 56:7 53:10 implementation insofar 38:18
56:19 49:2 hired 47:11 implements intend 46:6
39:1 history 38:14 implication 48:4 48:14 54:21
57:6 7:11 8:17 22:1 home 13:8 56:2 35:23 49:12,19
40:20 49:15 hook 10:5 important 50:20 intentional
21:11,23 22:21 hurt 4:23 imposed 18:20 31:15 32:3,13
43:7,8 53:9,11,13 43:8 imposition intentionally
56:4,21,23,23 17:22 26:13 28:3 30:6,9
48:15 28:20,25 29:7 56:5,12,14 37:3 48:6,8,8 12:20
57:21 32:7,23 33:3,7 25:7 27:4 33:19,24
17:18,19 36:3,23 37:20 18:15 45:20 liabilities 20:18 lot 13:3 46:19
51:16 39:2,3,17,20 large 11:14 18:18,20 22:7 low 48:19
43:22 42:20 43:20 15:6,11 28:5 liable 50:22,24 M
44:4,7,12,16 28:15 light 23:19 majority 3:19
47:1,6,14 48:3 24:4 25:11 27:3 39:19 42:7 54:2
50:9,15 54:2 30:16 32:10 41:14 53:7,8 male 10:25
44:25 46:18 lines 40:15,16 21:24
keeps 45:24 lawsuit 43:10 litigating 23:12 17:16,25
40:24 41:7,12,18,25 leave 6:7 10:11 8:17 55:10 married 7:17
43:20 44:4,7 19:22 20:1 little 5:21 30:14 23:4 24:24
4:19 5:4 26:18 26:2,2 27:17 long 12:17 20:23 55:15
7:15,23 key 12:14 19:18 29:12,14,17 38:2 39:19,19 matter 1:11
11:11,22 49:19 35:2,10 39:25 50:1,2 54:24 12:14 27:23
13:6,18 kind 7:21 8:17 43:5 44:1 longer 12:7 28:15 49:25
12:10,17 13:7 49:24 52:4,12 look 4:7 5:5 6:21 50:18 58:5
42:15 43:8 52:13,15,16 11:14,15 12:4 matters 27:24
46:22 47:5 55:15 12:14,18,20,23 30:3 32:18
18:2,12 49:3 53:18,20 leaves 4:9,15,15 13:19,20 15:2 49:23
19:1 kinds 10:3,10 4:16,16,17 19:19 31:9 maximum 43:22
20:3 42:9,14 47:10 17:23 18:7,8,9 38:15,19,21 MD 1:21
22:4 57:5 20:16 53:14 39:22 42:10 mean 4:21 7:23
23:25 know 8:12 9:10 54:19 looked 5:14,15 13:17 14:2
10:9,16 17:8 Ledbetter 4:1 10:8 15:8,18 18:13
26:1,15 21:18 22:6 10:4 13:21 looking 12:17 21:16 23:2
27:8,14 40:10,12 43:6 14:5,6,10 16:2 14:8 25:3 36:5
28:7,13 52:11,17 56:4 17:14,15 20:4 looks 3:23 12:19 41:23 42:8,25
46:19 necessarily operates 8:24 parties 41:9 13:7 22:22
53:12 11:8 parts 34:24 23:1 28:2 38:8
Ninth 9:23 17:2 opposite 17:12 pay 13:25 20:8 period 13:22
36:17 37:17 ordered 20:9,11 37:21 38:13,13 permit 45:12
notice 4:5 7:1,1 orders 19:25 paying 20:10 perpetuation
notion 6:25 ought 9:3 payment 13:14 person 6:7,15
O 2:1 3:1 23:10 18:19 19:23 personnel 20:23
obviously 7:5 P 46:1,5 50:5,23 Petitioner 1:4
43:21 46:18 48:25 12:25 21:25 15:22 18:6,7 Petitioner's
52:3 36:15,16 37:23 20:18 21:8,11 23:16
offer 9:21 par 13:15 37:24 38:14 Phillips 1:15 2:3
50:9 52:19,20 53:16 56:8,14 14:6,17,20
29:22 55:17 56:20 pre-Act 19:10 purported 17:21 react 6:21
possibility 41:10 36:18 45:2 purpose 4:18 read 15:25 16:1
11:4,6,8 post-new 47:21 48:21 put 9:11 20:5 reality 6:21
18:6 post-PDA 57:1 pre-Gilbert 26:4 40:13 really 12:5
24:1 potential 7:20 pre-PDA 5:12 p.m 58:4 21:20
28:1 41:8 25:11 reason 22:1 38:1
Power 51:5 pre-Title 38:19 Q 40:21 55:24
33:8,13 practice 53:1 primary 3:24 quarrel 9:13 reasonable 8:4
preceded 46:23 prior 6:24 8:16 15:9 54:18
38:2,7 precisely 3:12 25:23 39:9 question 6:14 reasonably
39:4 55:15 50:22 7:24 9:3,15 53:17
40:7,22 precluded 51:2 private 14:14 10:20 15:19,25 reasons 10:2
42:5 predicates 33:13 probably 3:21 19:2,4,15 11:19,24 20:12
44:15,19 pregnancy 20:17,23 22:24 25:6,20 28:18 40:19
10:11 13:11 problem 13:20 27:8 28:8 29:8 reassure 47:8
57:17 21:10 23:8 process 5:22 55:9 56:25 receive 41:9
25:17 28:9 program 14:1 questioned 5:18 55:20
19:18 33:17 34:4,5 19:19 57:24 20:23
21:18 35:1,4,10,20 prohibits 51:6 quite 5:21 11:3 reduced 49:5
30:15 35:21,24 39:24 pronounce 10:9 22:23 42:4 50:12
39:2 45:17 50:4,4 properly 52:19 51:4 reduction 4:20
47:17 50:12,14 52:12 prospect 43:7 quote 13:21 54:19
53:2 52:15 54:20 prospectively 55:10,13 referred 27:4
56:11 57:4 20:9 21:7 reflects 15:22
23:4,9 present 3:15 9:4 provide 26:25 38:23,24 45:16 regarded 10:17
16:4 33:20 48:12 race-based 6:18 10:18
25:2,7 36:21,22 37:9 provided 27:5 9:18 regular 39:25
38:21 46:16,17 46:10 racial 14:15 relationship
26:2,3,6 48:1 50:3,3 providing 18:5 36:21 5:22 44:1
present-day provision 19:6,7 racially 11:24 relatively 42:18
respond 7:9,9 34:13 47:17,25 49:22 50:8,10 20:19 21:18
51:17 Respondent 2:9 rights 8:19,21 55:3 52:14
22:12 23:14 21:1 22:10,15 section 27:5
51:10 1:22 4:9 5:6 risk 41:8 S 1:17 2:1,5 3:1 34:8 44:24
51:11 restarts 14:3 30:12,24 31:6 38:22 12:9,12 14:4
22:13 55:2 58:1 11:23 13:16 36:5,11
42:9 retain 29:20 35:25 36:15 28:19,21,22 5:25 6:3,16 8:2
54:13 retirement 4:24 52:8,11,14,19 30:22 31:16 8:22,23 9:6,17
retro 47:16 57:2 30:16 31:24 24:7,14,18
18:15,16,20 45:24 says 11:25 24:11 28:23 29:1,20
53:19 51:13,23 26:17,18,20 35:1,15 36:7 31:17 34:18,25
37:9 23:24 28:12,17,21 46:16 52:8,15 37:19 43:14,17
48:2 retroactivity 29:3,10,16,25 55:11 56:13,15 45:1,5,25
17:22 19:18 30:20 31:3,14 SCALIA 29:7 46:14 48:9,16
Retrospective 34:15,23 35:8 35:9 36:3,23 50:3,11 52:1,5
28:22 returns 6:7 38:10,17,25 47:1,6 54:22 55:14,21
30:22 reverse 57:25 39:14,18 40:4 scaring 47:6 56:2,14,21
40:6 rhetorical 18:4 40:11,25 41:11 scatter 3:22,23 57:3,8
47:10 Ricks 7:5 41:15,21 42:3 scenario 36:13 sense 31:19
49:11 right 4:21 11:21 42:20,25 43:24 scheme 9:6 36:12 37:23
52:3 12:22 14:17 44:6,9,14,18 school 4:16 51:4 57:11
15:20 16:3,14 45:3,9,18,21 scrambling sensible 54:12
17:12 18:24 46:21,25 47:3 20:25 separate 24:20
17:25 small 42:17,18 29:9 32:23,24 46:5 21:21 24:10
24:15,19 44:16,18 53:3 33:8 51:13,20 suggestion 25:12 27:15
27:2 smaller 46:10 51:23 54:1 41:15 51:25 41:25 47:14,16
46:11 Solicitor 51:25 statutory 18:22 suggests 16:2 47:17
51:3 53:9 somebody 22:20 staying 13:8 suit 44:8 55:1 taken 4:9,9 7:13
sooner 7:9 23:25 27:8,14 summary 22:8 17:24 18:8,8,9
sought 4:24,24 28:20 32:23 47:18 20:16 39:15
30:1,3 15:18,24 18:2 38:12,20 39:3 Supreme 1:1,12 talking 4:8 5:23
31:15,19 18:12,16,21 49:15,21 50:6 23:5 5:24 8:18
32:1 19:1 20:3 21:5 50:9,15 sure 16:6 19:8 13:24 14:10
33:14 21:8,16 22:4 Stevens's 25:6 48:6 36:24 41:5,22
39:2,17,20 25:20 surely 15:4 42:17 43:18
speak 18:14 strong 54:15 21:23 24:6,14 tells 51:21
5:16 20:11 38:11 34:2,2,3,23 37:3 46:3
squares 48:6 subjected 51:9 48:1,9,20,22 23:2 31:15
13:4 stale 4:2 54:14 submitted 58:3 54:9,17 56:2 tests 51:8,10
19:4 staleness 4:7 58:5 57:1 Thank 3:9 16:19
34:9 start 20:10 subsection systematic 37:6 16:25 26:14,15
36:18 started 46:12 38:16 systemically 55:2,7 58:1
39:15 starting 18:5 subsequent 11:17 thing 11:16 16:7
41:23 statement 10:21 49:12 systems 19:9 23:22 38:4
43:6 statements subset 42:17 48:16 54:22 46:15 48:5
50:24 40:20 subsidiaries 56:14 things 20:15
54:21 States 1:1,12,19 5:10 33:11 42:9
14:11 statute 11:19 subtle 3:17 tab 45:24 9:24 10:18,19
26:4 12:24 15:12,14 sue 25:3 26:7 tabulates 46:3 11:14 12:14,22
14:6 50:16 51:24 turn 12:19 27:25 28:1,17,18,23 37:23
16:1 52:8 53:1,3,14 46:6 50:19 29:8,15,18 wait 8:7 49:5
18:13 53:21 turns 11:22 30:2,18 31:15 53:23 54:10
20:3,6 times 14:22 26:23 31:18 32:11,14 wake 11:6
21:3,13 time-barred twice 23:15 34:10 35:21 want 32:17 36:1
23:24 17:5 two 7:2 13:21 36:19 49:24 40:3 42:1
27:22 Title 13:4 27:5 21:20,21 23:5 50:5,15,17 49:15
29:4,10 29:18 36:16,22 28:18 33:10 53:1 warrant 53:19
31:7 37:9,14 41:4 40:15 41:17 untimely 16:8 53:19
42:24 44:24 44:10 16:10 Washington 1:8
34:23 46:6,12,23,23 two-part 52:11 unusual 30:25 1:15,18
36:13 47:12 48:2 typically 31:8 upset 21:5,9 wasn't 11:19
38:16 51:6,8,10,12 53:15 57:17,18,20 14:24 15:5
today 4:11 6:16 upsets 20:14 29:25 31:21
6:19 10:15,17 U 21:1 36:19 52:25
10:18 11:8 ultimately 27:23 urge 57:25 54:4
12:10,12 24:2 30:3 32:17 use 3:15 32:23 waste 32:17
46:3 24:11 25:1,8 42:7 49:25 32:24 37:2 way 4:14 6:20
47:9,13 25:15,19,25 unable 20:21 uses 24:3 33:1 6:22 10:15
50:10,17 26:2,3,3,11 unambiguously 11:9 12:10,19
54:5 35:24 36:16,20 48:14 V 12:20,23 13:19
56:24 46:10 47:24 unanimously v 1:5 3:4 39:18 14:24 15:12,25
29:7 total 24:15 underlying 49:9 vary 41:5 40:17 42:22
51:8,13 totally 6:10 54:16 57:4 versus 54:20 50:25 57:8
touched 21:17 understand vested 21:1 ways 20:14
39:15 16:7 18:14 vesting 53:16 weeks 22:24
5:19 9:12 treat 23:7 24:12 30:13 34:11 46:4,8 53:25 weighed 41:13
12:7 51:21 56:13 VII 13:4 27:5 weren't 43:5
treated 24:12,17 understood 29:18 36:16,22 52:24
16:5,12 39:24 51:11 54:25 37:9,14 38:19 we're 25:14 40:4
18:1 treatment 27:11 undo 26:10 41:4 42:24 41:5 42:17
24:3 27:12 32:9 unequal 27:2 44:24 46:6,12 43:6 44:2 49:3
27:20 trickier 10:20 37:23,24 49:2 46:23,24 47:12 49:4 54:13
trivial 46:7 unfair 21:24 48:2 51:6,9,11 57:16
true 7:6 14:7,23 union 6:24 51:12 we've 40:15
32:2 38:4,25 39:3 42:23 43:2 violation 3:14 whethers 49:23
33:15 52:10 United 1:1,12,19 14:2 42:23 white 11:18 13:1
35:21 truth 10:6 2:6 16:22 17:7 vis-a-vis 22:15 46:10
37:14 try 9:5 32:2 unlawful 12:3 whites 20:9 38:8
39:5 40:1 trying 7:12 16:8 24:2,20 W wholesale 57:1
43:13 11:12 13:19 25:1,1,15,17 wage 20:11 win 47:16
49:23 30:13 26:6 27:20 wages 20:10 woman 11:2
$ 7
24:7,9 $17 44:21 70s 19:23
70(h) 45:15
33:25 0 702 50:13
07-543 1:5 3:4 703(h) 19:6
13:1,8 11:06 1:13 3:2 32:19 33:19
29:1 12:07 58:4 34:8 35:22
37:23 15,000 22:9 43:11 48:10,12
16 2:7 50:1,13,18
53:6 180 17:12 19:12 54:8,12 57:23
1964 46:25
1975 15:2 90 13:10,13
34:20 2 53:6,7
46:12 2008 1:9
3 2:4 55:4
46:6 23:11,23 54:25
55:1
13:13
22:21
23:12
24:15
55 2:12
55:1 6
22:5
