IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
KARI E. KENNEDY, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 07-636
PLAN ADMINISTRATOR FOR :
DUPONT SAVINGS AND :
INVESTMENT PLAN, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 7, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
DAVID A. FURLOW, ESQ., Houston, Tex.; on behalf of the
Petitioners.
LEONDRA R. KRUGER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae.
MARK I. LEVY, ESQ., Washington, D.C., on behalf of the
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DAVID A. FURLOW, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
LEONDRA R. KRUGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae 22
MARK I. LEVY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID A. FURLOW, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:00 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 07-636, Kennedy v. The Plan Administrator
for DuPont Savings and Investment Plan.
Mr. Furlow.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. FURLOW
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FURLOW: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
As this Court has confined consideration of
the matters before the Court to certiorari issue number
5 concerning qualified domestic relations orders, or
QDROs as they are called, I will confine my argument to
arguing that the Fifth Circuit erred in holding that the
only way a divorcing spouse can waive the right to
pension benefits is by executing a QDRO. I have four
basic arguments to present today. I'll give them in
thumbnail sketch form first.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You did in your reply
brief address the plan question?
MR. FURLOW: Yes, Your Honor. I did so
after stating that we believe that the matter was
properly confined to the certiorari issue number three,
but out of an abundance of caution and subject to
objection I did respond to the argument leveled against
us by I think it is five amici and by DuPont itself. We
nevertheless, I prepared my original briefing on the
merits to address the QDRO issue and that's where you
see it focused. We have four basic issues.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The problem is that is
that if you, even if we hold for you on that issue, you
could still lose on the plan documents rule, right.
MR. FURLOW: Well, Your Honor, I think that
instead this Court might choose well to follow what the
concurrence said in the recent LaRue v. DeWolff, Boberg
case, emphasizing that where the court of appeals below
has not passed on the central issue of a case and where
most of the fire that the one party is responding to
comes from amici, that it is appropriate to remand the
case to that court so that that court may pass on the
central issue, especially in the situation where, as
here, the Fifth Circuit did not even mention the plan
document's role, but based its decision solely on a
misinterpretation of the QDRO language.
Of course, here, in the interest of candor,
Dupont did in fact address in brief format -- a page or
to, several pages -- in its motion for summary judgment
the plan document's role and raised that matter again in
the Fifth Circuit. It's just the Fifth Circuit did not
consider or pass on that because it relied solely on
Dupont's argument that the Fifth Circuit should adhere
to what it believed to be the Department of Treasury's
interpretation of the anti-alienation statute. The
Department of the Treasury and the Department of Labor,
now in a harmonized stance, have come forth and in their
amicus for the government supports our position that the
Fifth Circuit erred in its interpretation of the QDRO
statute, and that's the position we take.
JUSTICE BREYER: At the end of your
argument, could you just spend a minute because my state
of mind is I'm sorry we limited it. You've sort of
briefed this question pretty fully.
MR. FURLOW: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: And I'm tempted to try to
decide it. I know you want to make your four points.
Go right ahead. But at the end, could you possibly say,
why shouldn't we just go ahead and decide the substance,
not as a technical matter. Are we really going to get
something out of remanding it that we don't already
know? But don't do that now, but whenever you want.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We know what's going to
happen on remand, though, don't we? Doesn't the Fifth
Circuit already have case law on -- on that question?
MR. FURLOW: The Fifth Circuit already has
case law. They have stated that, but they consider some
of the other cases and they might consider this Court's
ruling addressing the interpretation of the QDRO
provision; that might provide them additional
enlightenment as to how they should address the
other issue.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But again as a preliminary
matter, am I on the same page with Justice Ginsburg? Or
would it be a different question? I'm curious to know
why the beneficiary designation and change provisions at
page 48, number 29c, beneficiaries, couldn't have been
invoked here. Is that the same question Justice
Ginsburg was asking?
MR. FURLOW: I do not believe so, Justice
Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because the plan does
contain a procedure for designating some other
beneficiary, including the spouse. I just don't
understand why anybody doesn't talk about that.
MR. FURLOW: Well, Your Honor, there was
that provision for invoking another beneficiary and we
only pointed out that indeed three days after the
divorce, and consistent with his ex-wife's waiver of any
right, title, claim and interest in this 401(k) plan in
specific, and that was the very first item of the things
that he retained as the plan participant in that divorce
decree, he did in fact designate his sole daughter Kari
Kennedy as his sole beneficiary in a change of form plan
for one part of this very complex series of multiple
plans -- of plan retirement benefits where he said that
he would give -- that she would be his sole beneficiary;
and the form there that DuPont drafted for him said that
it invoked and superseded any and all prior
designations, and was not limited to that one particular
part 6 pension and retirements plan. And so we submit
it is a reasonable explanation, if he did not believe
that his wife had waived any right, title and interest
to invoke that beneficiary clause, pursuant to the Fifth
Circuit's decision just six weeks beforehand in the
Brandon v Travelers International case that said that a
waiver of ERISA benefits, welfare benefits mainly -- but
ERISA waiver of benefits, a voluntary waiver was
enforceable, was valid and could be enforced at summary
judgment.
We believe his counsel, you know, were aware
of that in formulating, you know, this waiver of
benefits. Even if that didn't take care of Liv
Kennedy's knowing, voluntary, attorney-negotiated,
court-approved, signed-by-her waiver of any right,
title, claim and interest in his pension benefits, then
we believe he may have believed as a layman that by
signing that beneficiary designation form prepared by
DuPont, that he had indeed superseded and revoked all
prior designations.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Or he might have -- he
might have decided that he didn't want to revoke that
one. We -- we just have no way of knowing. It's odd
that he revoked as to one plan but not the 501(k) plan,
as I understand.
MR. FURLOW: Your Honor, I might -- I might,
if I would, just offer an explanation. He almost
certainly saw no reason to revoke that which his wife
had just four days before voluntarily waived any right,
title, claim and interest to in terms of the divorce.
He certainly would have expected that her word would be
her bond and that it wouldn't turn out to be a junk bond
as it turned out to be when years later she repudiated
her own voluntary waiver; and that's just one of the
issues that we address.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, because he could --
he could have -- despite her waiver, he could have named
her as the beneficiary of that plan and that would have
controlled.
MR. FURLOW: Well, Your Honor, the way I see
it is that his attorneys who were advising him and
guiding him through this process, they were acting, we
must assume, in complete awareness of Texas and Fifth
Circuit law; and the Fifth Circuit had just ruled some
six weeks before in a case involving voluntary divorce
decree waivers that such a waiver was enforceable. Now
you don't have to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry; six weeks
before what?
MR. FURLOW: Before the divorce decree in
the Brandon v. Travelers International case. We believe
that there was no sense there in bombing the rubble. If
it was already taken care of, it didn't have to be taken
care of the second time. Now, I and you might want a
belt-and-suspenders approach to be absolutely, doubly,
positively sure. But the fundamental thing is if under
Federal common law, as a majority of courts and almost
all of the State courts have ruled, a voluntary waiver
is enforceable, then that was already taken care of.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but how does
the plan know that?
MR. FURLOW: The plan knows that, as here,
when the court-appointed fiduciary, the executrix Kari
Kennedy makes the plan aware of that on April 26, 2001,
via fax and delivery, which is acknowledged by their
plan administrator, Mary Deneen that's coming in, and
there you have a copy of the divorce decree served on
DuPont months before they make a payout.
And it is critical here, Your Honor, that
when they chose to make this -- you know, when they
chose to pay the beneficiary, they were working on a
test case right there from the very beginning. And if
you look at their paralegal's letter, who actually
notifies the estate that they are going to disregard the
voluntary test case, they refer to DuPont's success in
raising this issue before. And then the paralegal
actually quotes a Fifth Circuit case that holds for
voluntary waivers, obviously not understanding the, you
know, crucial import here; and we note --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the plan terms
say that if you want to change the beneficiary, here's
how you've got to change the beneficiary; and we are
going to pay the beneficiary until it's changed.
MR. FURLOW: Well, Your Honor, I would also
say that the plan forms here at page 48 of your joint
appendix, and 49 -- I ask this Court to scrutinize these
two provisions because they are critical to the outcome
of the case. At page 48 you hear the following
mandatory language in DuPont's own SIP. And it says:
"If no surviving spouse exists and no beneficiary
designation is in effect, distribution shall" --
mandatory term -- "shall be made to or in accordance
with the directions of the executor or administrator of
the decedent's estate." And so we say that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
your friend on the other side would be quoting that
language.
MR. FURLOW: Well, Your Honor, I like to
bring a fresh insight to the -- to the -- to the
Petitioner's argument here because I see that language
and we say it is not in effect. This Court has ruled in
several cases what the term "in effect" means, and in
ERISA cases saying this version of ERISA was in effect,
meaning valid and operational. Well, the voluntary
waiver was in effect and that made the beneficiary
designation some 10 years before during the course of
the marriage ineffectual, invalid. And so --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's -- that's
a bit of a stretch, isn't it? It says no beneficiary
designation is in effect. If you look at the plan, he's
got a beneficiary designation.
MR. FURLOW: But it's not in effect at the
time that it comes to be decided because their plan
administrator Mary Deneen has a copy of the divorce
decree with the knowing voluntary waiver. And although,
Your Honor, although they take the position that plan
administrators can't understand knowing and voluntary
waivers, that that's a law sort of thing, they have got
one in-house counsel there who was never called upon to
actually pass on this matter and it wouldn't have cost
them a dime to go outside of that in-house counsel.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, of course, that was
the point of my earlier point. I focused on -- on this
whole paragraph.
MR. FURLOW: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That just indicates that
this would have been a different case if the provision
of the plan that said there shall be no assignment,
which is quoted in the Fifth Circuit thing, was the only
provision in the plan; but when you look through this in
retrospect, there are means for participants and
beneficiaries to make a change, and they weren't
followed here.
MR. FURLOW: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I understand that you
say in effect they were. I understand that argument but
it's not as if the plan didn't contain an adequate
vehicle if the -- the parties had followed strictly the
terms of the plan.
MR. FURLOW: Your Honor, we submit that
people all the time in situations like this may believe
that a knowing voluntary waiver which has received the
approval of the majority of the Federal appellate courts
and the State courts is good enough. In some other
instances, they forget. They forget to do this or to
make those changes, or believe that one of a series of
multiple and overlapping beneficiary designations has --
as the June 7th one did, we submit -- revoked and
superseded any and all prior designations, and they are
lay people not lawyers.
Now, I would submit that the critical thing
is also on page 49 the very portion of the joint
appendix that you're looking at, because that language
says, in the DuPont SIP plan, quote, "if in the opinion
of the company there is a question as to the legal right
of any beneficiary to receive a distribution under the
plan, the amount in question may be paid to the
decedent's estate in which event the trustee and the
company shall have no further liability to anyone in
respect to such amounts." Consider that when you've
heard all of the fear mongering that's come in, in the
amici briefs with respect to -- to interpleader actions.
And we submit that interpleader actions are a perfectly
good means of disposing of this, but if you --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's in the opinion
of the company. That sounds -- and this is a plan -- as
we've said often in ERISA cases, we want to enforce
these according to the terms of the plan because the
companies don't have to set these up at all. So it
makes perfect sense for the company to say, well, if we
think this, then we can do this. So, in other words,
there's a doubt and we don't want to give it to somebody
who might not end up being the person, but if we don't
think there's a doubt, that's it.
MR. FURLOW: And that's the first step in
the analysis, Your Honor, because the second step is all
of this Supreme Court case and all of the substantial
expenses that this estate out of Jasper, Texas, has had
to pay from the very beginning could have been avoided
had they paid over to Kari Kennedy, a court-appointed
executrix who would have taken that money in and would
have been bound by the rules of the probate court to
handle it as a fiduciary to consider Liv's claim that
her voluntary waiver was not voluntary, to pay the
creditors first, rather than get stuck with the past
liabilities, which happened here.
The important thing is DuPont could have
avoided all of this litigation, would not have had to
file an interpleader, would not have had to incur a
dime's worth of attorney's fees, would not have had to
put its own interest ahead of that of the participants
and beneficiaries, had they simply invoked this clause
as they had the power to do. They chose this case.
JUSTICE SOUTER: We can't decide this case
based on sympathy to DuPont. I would understand the
point of your argument. But if -- in theory the problem
would be exactly the same, whether DuPont had expressed
a doubt and paid it into the estate or hadn't.
MR. FURLOW: The problem --
JUSTICE SOUTER: We have the same question
before us.
MR. FURLOW: The QDRO question, Your Honor?
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes.
MR. FURLOW: Yes, and that's why we say that
if you look carefully at -- excuse me, but it's 29
U.S.C. section 1056(b) through (k) -- you look at the
specific language, and I am asking this Court to adhere
to the specific written terms of the ERISA statute
because those require a transfer to an alternate payee.
That is our fundamental argument: A transfer to an
alternate payee which is defined in 1056(d)(3)(K) as
being someone --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sorry. Does this appear
somewhere in the materials? It's always helpful.
MR. FURLOW: Respondents' brief, Your Honor,
and you will find it specifically on pages 14A and 15A,
in the appendix in the back. And if you actually go to
the language, we stand on a plain-meaning interpretation
of the ERISA statute, this reticulated and complicated
statute. We say every word has its meaning.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What do you want me to
read here?
MR. FURLOW: Specifically, Your Honors,
pages 14A and 15A of the Respondents' appendix, where he
has actually given us all of the QDRO statute at 1056.
And we say that has meaning, and that means
we prevail because, if you look at that language, every
subpart is talking about payments to alternate payees.
"Alternate payees" are defined at 1056(d)(3)(K), and you
will find that, Your Honors, specifically at page, at
page 22A to 23A in the appendix.
The alternate payees there that we are
talking about are spouse, ex-spouse, child, or other
dependent. It does not refer to the plan participant
Mr. Kennedy; and, therefore, there was no -- his mere
retention of his pension benefits and his wife's waiver
of her contingent beneficiary payments, which would only
come to her upon the death of William Kennedy, meant
there was no transfer, not a dime's worth of money, not
a bit of pension benefits transferred on the date that
she signed that waiver. There was thus no --
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm not sure I'm getting
this argument. There's not -- the argument isn't that
there was a QDRO; the argument was that he could have
disposed of this through a QDRO. And he could have done
that, and he could have named an alternate payee in the
QDRO. He could have named his daughter, for example.
MR. FURLOW: Your Honor, the way pension
planners understand it is that you use a QDRO for a
transfer of benefits, not for a bare waiver. And that's
where the U.S. Solicitor General supports our position
and reads this and says that's consistent with
Treasury's own, now harmonized with Labor's,
interpretation of the anti-alienation clause. It does
not apply to bare waivers of benefits, and, therefore,
the Fifth Circuit erred in putting within a QDRO context
his wife's --
JUSTICE ALITO: All you're saying is that
you couldn't effect a bare waiver through a QDRO, but
why does that prove your case? I don't understand that.
MR. FURLOW: We think that --
JUSTICE ALITO: A QDRO could have been used
to direct the payment to someone else other than the
ex-spouse.
MR. FURLOW: With respect to her waiver that
would have required him in advance to decide who he
would have transferred what alternate payee he would
transfer way back at the time of his divorce in 1994.
He cannot. He did not transfer anything to his wife.
She didn't receive anything at that time. She simply
waived her contingent right to receive something upon
her death, something that would occur in the future.
She thoroughly waived that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not your point. It
would seem to me your point is that the QDRO is an
exception to the assignment or alienation.
MR. FURLOW: I believe --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And your point is this has
been no assignment or agency, so we don't need the QDRO
exception. There is nothing in here that violates
anything in the statute.
MR. FURLOW: I completely agree with that
analysis.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So whether he could have
done a QDRO is in your view irrelevant. Your basic case
is the QDRO is an exception from the prohibition on
assignment or alienation, that provision has no
application here, there has been no assignment or
alienation, and therefore the waiver is effective.
MR. FURLOW: That's exactly our position
Your Honor, yes. So we find support in that and we find
support in not only Treasury's interpretation of its own
regulation, which deserves great deference under this
Court's opinion, especially when DuPont in the Fifth
Circuit asserted that it was Department of Treasury that
had all of the expertise pursuant to congressional
mandate in determining how QDROs should apply and told
the Fifth Circuit to follow their outdated
interpretation of the QDRO statute. They certainly are
not in a position to say that the expertise that they
touted in the Fifth Circuit should be disregarded now,
and we submit that the Attorney General and the
Solicitor General are correct in saying that the
regulation does not mean what DuPont says it does, but
means what Kennedy says it does.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, of course you
only think the Solicitor General is right so far to a
certain extent.
MR. FURLOW: To a certain extent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then you throw them
under the train because you don't -- you certainly don't
think they are correct by saying, look, the only way you
can do this is by modifying the plan. I still don't
know how the plan administrator is supposed to know that
the person whose name appears on the plan documents,
which the plan participant can change at any time, isn't
the person that they are supposed to send the benefits
to. Now, you tell me here they knew about the divorce
and all that stuff. Maybe, maybe not. But we are
trying to develop a rule for all cases and it seems to
me the easiest, most administrable rule is to say
whoever's name appears there gets the money, and if they
are not supposed to because of some collateral dispute,
well, they can sort that out in litigation. Maybe Kari
has a suit against Mrs. Kennedy or her estate, but
that's not a matter for the plan to worry about.
MR. FURLOW: Well, Your Honor, let me
address that. First, we don't throw the Solicitor
General under the tracks. We simply point out the fact
that they have gone off track in terms of their plan
documents. And specifically, Your Honor, I would say I
agree with the Manning versus, the Manning decision of
the Texas, of the Fifth Circuit, which we cited. In
there that says that sections 1102 and 1104 of ERISA are
a very thin reed indeed to on which to cobble together a
plan document's rule. And specifically DuPont then goes
one bridge too far going way beyond that to say that
these ever meetable ever changeable beneficiary changes
thousands of them constitute documents where the Ninth
Circuit conity substitutes of what constitutes plan
documents in the salaried employees of Hughes versus
Hughes administrator case and said that a list of the
participants and their addresses could not be considered
a plan document because it did not correspond with that
detailed listing of the plan document under Section 1024
and 102 a. Indeed under Section 1025, Your Honors, if
these are plan documents then the administrator has a
duty to disclose them to any person participant or
beneficiary who asked and as the Ninth Circuit pointed
out there is substantial dangers there of going way
beyond what Congress, a very liberal Watergate Congress
in 1974, intended ERISA to be, which is a protection for
participants and beneficiaries, not for plan
administrators. And it exposes those participants and
beneficiaries to loss of privacy, telemarketing, and
other things because one person could get such a list
and sell it to others.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I must have missed
-- where did Watergate come from.
(Laughter.)
MR. FURLOW: Just putting in context the
intentions of the 1974 Congress, which was concerned
about participants and beneficiaries. Those were the
sole purposes for which section 1102 was designed to
protect, not the convenience of plan administrators as
DuPont would lead this Court to believe.
I see that I'm into rebuttal time. I would
like to save some for that. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Kruger.
ORAL ARGUMENT BY LEONDRA R. KRUGER
ON BEHALF OF AMICUS CURIAE
MS. KRUGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Fifth Circuit decided this case on the
grounds that ERISA's anti-alienation provision forbids a
divorcing spouse from relinquishing an interest in his
or her ex-spouse's pension plan benefits unless the
waiver takes the form of a qualified domestic relations
order.
We agree with Petitioner that the Fifth
Circuit misinterpreted both the anti-alienation
provision and the QDRO exception to that provision. But
we disagree with Petitioner's further submission that
merely because ERISA does not forbid waivers in the
divorce context or otherwise, that a plan administrator
may be required as a matter of Federal common law to
recognize such waivers even when those waivers conflict
with the beneficiary designation the plan administrator
has on file.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, are the provisions
of page 49 of the appendix consistent with the statute?
MS. KRUGER: Indeed, Your Honor, we think
that they are. The statute directs plan administrators
to administer the plan in accordance with the plan
documents and further requires administrators to pay
benefits to persons who are either participants under
the plan or who are beneficiaries within the meaning of
the statute.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did the Court of Appeals
give short shrift or overlook that point?
MS. KRUGER: Well, the Court of Appeals
determined that it need not reach this point because it
decided the case on different grounds; namely, the
anti-alienation grounds. But, again, we think that if
the Fifth Circuit was incorrect in its reasoning but
reached the correct overall conclusion, then its
judgment should be affirmed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we -- I mean, we
could have -- you know, we should have thought of that
when we limited our -- our grant of certiorari to the --
to the one question on which you agree with the
Petitioner. But we did do that, didn't we, even though
the other one was -- was explicitly put under our nose,
and we said we -- we are not going to get into that? We
just want to decide this question, which is an important
question all by itself.
MS. KRUGER: Well, for several reasons, Your
Honor, we think it would be appropriate for the Court to
answer both the plan documents question as well as the
anti-alienation question.
One is that it is an alternative ground for
affirmance.
The other is that it was properly raised in
the Court of Appeals. It was raised in the cert
petition as well as in the brief in opposition.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know any other case
in which we have explicitly declined to accept a
question and then have used one of these other back
doorways of -- of answering it anyway?
MS. KRUGER: I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know of any. I
mean maybe -- maybe we have but --
MS. KRUGER: I'm -- I'm not sure that I know
of any either, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, could we do this? I
mean, what's bothering me about this is -- is you have a
very strong argument following the plan documents. They
have had some chance to reply to it, but not a full
chance. It seems a little unfair, and the Fifth Circuit
had -- would probably know what they say. Okay. Can
we, say, grant the question now and ask that people file
an additional brief if they want to say something?
It just seems to me an awful waste of money
and everybody's time to send it back and have it make
another trip. So what's your suggestion as to how we
proceed?
MS. KRUGER: Well, Your Honor, I think it
would be possible to -- to either order for the briefing
on the issue or to grant the question now at this
juncture. I think it would also be conceivable to read
the question that the Court did grant on as encompassing
the Federal common law --
JUSTICE BREYER: You see, I want to be fair
to them. I mean, we want -- you want to be fair to the
other side to be sure they have a chance to say
everything they have to say. That's what's worrying me.
MS. KRUGER: Well, Your Honor, that is an
important consideration. I do think that in the opening
brief the Petitioners did brief the question of what
effect is to be given to a waiver if indeed a waiver is
not prohibited by the anti-alienation clause. And that
Federal common law rule that Petitioners suggest is one
that does, I think, naturally invite some consideration
of the conflicting statutory directive in the form of
the plan documents principle that this Court has
recognized in its earlier cases. And certainly in its
reply brief Petitioners did address this issue in full.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did -- did we recognize in
earlier cases that beneficiary designations are plan
documents?
MS. KRUGER: Well, Your Honor, I think the
question of whether beneficiary designation forms,
counsel plan documents, is a little bit beside the
point. The -- the plan documents in this case do
specify a procedure for determining who is to receive
benefits. It says that benefits will be paid to the
designated beneficiary, the person who is designated by
the participant. And it says that changes to those
beneficiary designations shall be made in the manner
that's prescribed by the plan.
And so, because the plan sets out a
procedure for changing beneficiary designations, we
think that it would be inappropriate to look beyond that
to require plan administrators to look to extrinsic
documents in order to determine whether one of them
overrides that designation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Again, assuming there has
been a change of beneficiary designation, and, of
course, the argument you're confronted with is: I
haven't changed anything. The prior beneficiary simply
-- simply refused to accept it, waived it. I haven't
changed the designation at all.
MS. KRUGER: Well, in this case there is a
conflict then between the wishes of the participant, who
by all accounts would have chosen not to change the
beneficiary designation, and that of the beneficiary.
And in that case in order to effectuate the
-- the interests of all parties involved in order to
provide certainty to all parties in ascertaining what
their rights are with respect to the plan, then it is
incumbent on the plan administrator to abide by the
designated beneficiary.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I think it's a harder
question than you make it; and I, for one, have not gone
into it as deeply as I would like to, principally
because we rejected that -- that question.
MS. KRUGER: Well, again, Your Honor, we
think it would be appropriate for the Court to go on to
address that question because the issues have been fully
aired both in the Fifth Circuit and in the briefing in
this Court. But if the Court were inclined to -- to
reserve that question for a later time, I think that
would be fine as well. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Am I right in
understanding that there is a fairly sharp circuit split
on that question, even that majority of the circuits are
contrary to the Government's position?
MS. KRUGER: That is correct. There is a
circuit split on the question as was raised in the
petition for certiorari, and the Second and Sixth
Circuits are the circuits that have to date agreed with
the position that we are espousing here: That the plan
documents control and preclude formulation of a Federal
common law rule of the sort that Petitioner proposes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And which circuits
are on the other side?
MS. KRUGER: There are a number of them
including the Fifth, the Seventh, the Third.
The reason why the plan documents rule is so
important in this case is because it serves important
statutory interests in certainty, certainty of the
parties as well as certainty of the administrators.
And it is clear; it is easy to apply; it
makes it possible for administrators to do their jobs
without fear of further litigation in case they happen
to make what a court may later in the proceedings
determine is the wrong choice.
For that reason, we think that ERISA is
clear, and that it doesn't permit the kind of Federal
common law rule that Petitioner proposes, which is one
that would essentially revise the statute to override
the plan documents rule and would require substantial
burdens on the plan and would yield uncertainty for the
parties.
For that reason we would ask the Court to
affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals on
alternative grounds or, alternatively, it should remand
for further proceedings.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Levy.
ORAL ARGUMENT BY MARK I. LEVY
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. LEVY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In light of the Court's questions, I want to
begin with the plan documents argument and first the
procedural question of whether it's properly before the
Court. We think that it is.
It's well within the settled doctrine of an
alternative ground for affirmance. It was raised below,
and the Fifth Circuit has decided the issue in other
cases. We don't dispute that. So we know what the
Fifth Circuit thinks about this issue, and, therefore,
there is no point in a remand.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know of any case in
which we've done this --
MR. LEVY: I do.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- rejected the question
and then decided it?
MR. LEVY: I apologize if it's not in the
brief, but a case I could find was called Piper Aircraft
versus Rayno 454 U.S. 235. And in that case the court
limited its grant of certiorari, but then went ahead and
decided a question that wasn't subsumed within that
question because they found it appropriate to the proper
disposition of the case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. But is that
a case in which the question the court decided was
presented in the petition, the court said we are not
going to take that question then they decided it on that
ground anyway.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what I'm asking.
Yes.
MR. LEVY: I'm not sure of the answer to
that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are sure of the answer.
You don't know of any case.
MR. LEVY: I think Piper is at least a first
cousin if not a direct sibling of the issue that we've
got here. I don't disagree that it is in the Court's
discretion. The Court has discretion, I think, one --
either way whether it wants to decide this or wants
remand, but we think it would be appropriate --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess you agree
that it's a question of which the circuits have split,
so presumably there are good arguments on both sides,
and it's one that your friend hasn't had a full
opportunity to brief here. So we'd have to be pretty
confident of the answer, I think, to go ahead and decide
it.
MR. LEVY: Well, actually I think the Court
will be confident if it looks into it. But beyond that
this is the classic case of an alternative ground for
affirmance of the judgment. When that arises, the
topside party always has to deal with that issue in its
reply brief and only in its reply brief. So there is
nothing unfair about the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It would be the classic
case but for the fact that we had rejected that
question. Had we not been asked to decide it and said
no, it would be the classic case, I agree.
MR. LEVY: And I agree. That makes it
within the Court's discretion. It doesn't have to
decide it, but we think there are good reasons here.
It's been fully briefed, including by the Petitioner for
the reason I just said. Four amici have addressed it;
we have addressed it. So it's properly before the
Court, and there is nothing unfair about deciding it.
In addition --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can we expect that to
happen in future cases when we turn down a question and
amici and people come in and brief the question anyway
and then ask us to decide it?
MR. LEVY: I wouldn't think so. The fact
that we can't find another case, either, I think makes
this one unique. And I think there are good reasons --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think there is a
question of the way it was phrased. And perhaps the
court just didn't get it, what that question on which we
didn't grant cert was driving at.
MR. LEVY: I would be loathe to make that
suggestion, Justice Ginsburg.
(Laughter.)
MR. LEVY: But it may well -- it's possible
that that could be the explanation or the Court with
fuller consideration -- I mean, the issue has been fully
briefed. The Court knows more about the issues than it
did at the time it granted cert, and we think it is for
a -- to decide this.
And I do want to point out that there is a
relationship between the questions. Both the question
granted and the question that wasn't granted -- wasn't
denied, but it wasn't granted -- raise similar
considerations. They both get into the same statutory
scheme. They both get into the same considerations of
plan administrability. We think it would be most
efficient for the Court to resolve the conflict now and
not leave the uncertainty to continue any further.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Undoubtedly we should have
granted it.
MR. LEVY: Well, in the fullness of time,
the Court can now revisit that. But again, I think it
has been fully briefed and there is nothing unfair to
the Petitioners. The Court in its discretion --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you like to argue
the question that is here?
MR. LEVY: Yes --
(Laughter.)
MR. LEVY: -- I would. I take it the Court
doesn't need argument on the merits of the plan
documents issues, since that's already been discussed,
so let me turn to the QDRO question. That is the
question that was -- that was granted and was discussed
fully in the briefs.
Now, as to the QDRO part of the case, the
rule of law that governs this case is that pension plan
administrators must pay benefits in accordance with a
qualified domestic relations order, and they may not pay
benefits in accordance with a nonqualified order.
That rule follows from two separate and
different analyses. One is the anti-alienation
provision, and the other is the QDRO provision in
subparagraph (H) of section 1056. They are both
discussed in our brief.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where would I find the
latter? If I wanted to read it? Which I do.
(Laughter.)
MR. LEVY: I don't find this all that
pleasant reading, but it's on page 21A of the statutory
appendix to the red brief.
JUSTICE SCALIA: 21A?
MR. LEVY: 21A. And it's (H)(ii) and (iii).
And I want to start with this because it is really is
the more straightforward analysis and avoids a lot of
questions under the anti-alienation provision. This
argument would prevail whether or not the purported
waiver is deemed to be an assignment or alienation under
1056(d)(1) and (d)(3).
Now, we think it is and I'll come back to
that under the IRS regulation, but let me start with
this alternative argument that's also made in the brief.
Under ERISA, a domestic relations order is
either a qualified order or a nonqualified order. And
ERISA expressly provides that if it's a nonqualified
order, as it is here, the plan administrator may not pay
benefits pursuant to that order.
Justice Scalia, since you're on page 21A,
let's look at subparagraph (H)(iii). This is 21A of the
red brief. It provides that: If an order is not
qualified, the plan administrator shall pay the benefits
to the person or persons who would be entitled to such
benefits if there had been no order. If there had been
no order. In other words, the administrator disregards
it and pays it to the person -- this is in (iii),
Justice Scalia.
Contrast that with subparagraph (H)(ii)
right above it, where the order is qualified: The
administrator shall pay the benefits to the person
entitled thereto under the order.
So, it gives you two choices. If it's a
qualified order, the plan must pay. If it's not a
qualified order, the plan --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that doesn't make too
much sense, does it, where all that happens is it's just
waived. The wife waived the amount because when she
waived the amount, she doesn't give it to anybody. She
just doesn't take it. So it goes to the beneficiary --
it goes to the person who made up the plan. It's a
little hard to pay to him, because he is dead.
So I mean if you read it literally, it
doesn't seem to apply, these (ii) and (iii), to the case
before us, which is a case of waiver. And of course the
argument, yes, she makes is that throughout the law,
waiver is treated differently. And if it weren't, you'd
have to pay gift tax, for example, when you waive a
benefit that's given to you by someone else.
And so let's interpret this and make sense
of the language you quoted, and consistent with the rest
of the law to say a waiver is waivered. It's not giving
something to somebody else.
MR. LEVY: You've covered a lot of ground,
Justice Breyer. I want to give you several responses --
JUSTICE BREYER: The argument is against you
and I would like to hear what you have to say.
MR. LEVY: And I appreciate that.
First of all, on this part of the argument
under the QDRO provision under subparagraph (H), it
doesn't matter whether this is a waiver or not. That
goes to the alienation question, and I will get to that
in a little while. This applies --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, it also goes to the
question of who is the person or persons who would have
been entitled to such amounts if there had been no
order.
MR. LEVY: If there were no --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If there was a waiver and
there had been no order, your friend's contention is by
traditional common law, the person who would have been
entitled to it would have been his client.
MR. LEVY: On the contrary, Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, I don't see how
this language helps you. It sort of restates the
question, but --
MR. LEVY: I don't believe so. I think it
is not only helpful but dispositive. The order that is
referred to is the divorce decree, the qualified
domestic -- I'm sorry -- the domestic relations order.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. LEVY: If there had been no order --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If there had been no
order --
MR. LEVY: -- then there wouldn't have been
any waiver by Liv. I mean, excuse me -- yes, by Liv.
There wouldn't have been any waiver if there weren't any
divorce decree because the waiver is contained --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I see. I see.
MR. LEVY: -- in the decree. So, if there
were no --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I see your point. Does he
agree with that, that apart from the divorce decree,
there is no waiver?
MR. LEVY: I'd hesitate to speak for him,
but I think the language is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I got you.
MR. LEVY: -- quite clear, and that's why
this is a more straightforward analysis than the waiver
under anti-alienation. I do hope to get to that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I see.
MR. LEVY: But this is really very
straightforward and dispositive.
And the legislative history confirms this.
The plain text is clear, but the legislative history
confirms it. Congress took a specific look at this
specific issue in a specific context of marital
dissolution, and it enacted this QDRO provision. And
the provision is comprehensive and complete.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm -- I didn't follow, I'd
have to admit. I think -- and you perhaps can explain
it to me -- but, I thought the things that you are
quoting are QDRO is about an effort to alienate some
property that would otherwise go to the person who was
setting up a QDRO, in other words, the wife here, in
other words Liv here; is that right?
MR. LEVY: No. It has to go to an alternate
payee. It doesn't have to be the wife.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. The one person who
couldn't be an alternate payee is the payor. And so, in
fact, when you waive something, it isn't that it
necessarily goes back to some alternate payee, as it
didn't here. It simply went back to the payor. And so
the language of this prevision you're quoting just
doesn't deal with this case.
MR. LEVY: Well, I think it does, Justice
Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know you do, and that's
what I need to ask.
MR. LEVY: It doesn't say anything about
where it goes. It just says if it's a QDRO, you pay it,
and if it's not a QDRO, you don't pay it.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm sorry. It says, if
it's not, the issue to wit is not resolved, then the
plan administrator shall pay the segregated amounts to
the person or persons who would have been entitled to
such amounts if there had been no order.
MR. LEVY: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, you think that
includes the giver, the payor?
MR. LEVY: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's where this
goes if you waive it.
MR. LEVY: I don't believe so, because the
"if there had no order" clause refers to the domestic
relations order, a divorce decree.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You say the waiver is in
the order?
MR. LEVY: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And without the order,
there has been no waiver.
MR. LEVY: That's correct. And the statute
says --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We'll have to see whether
your friend agrees with that. I'll bet he doesn't.
(Laughter.)
MR. LEVY: That's what made horse races.
Let me just say a further word about the legislative
history of this and then come back to the
anti-alienation provision, Justice Breyer, if I -- if I
might.
Congress made it clear that benefits are to
be paid pursuant to an order "if and only if" -- and
that's a quote from the legislative history -- the order
is a QDRO; in other words, the order be a QDRO in order
to be paid. Congress was mindful of the burdens that
nonqualified orders put on plan administrators and it
purposely sought to avoid that by requiring that an
order be a QDRO, a qualified order, in order for there
-- for there to be payment. The QDRO provision is an
objective checklist that is easy for -- for plan
administrators to follow.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if they had agreed to
the waiver apart from -- apart from the -- from the
domestic relations order? Just apart from that, they
have a separate signed waiver. We'd be in the same suit
that you're -- that you say we have to avoid, wouldn't
we?
MR. LEVY: I don't think so. I mean I think
that would be an alienation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if it's an
alienation, but his point is that a waiver is not an
alienation.
MR. LEVY: Right. And I will come to that,
but the point here is that this arises and can only
arise in a domestic relations context. That's where
QDRO applies, and the Fifth Circuit's holding was that
that was the sole mechanism for the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about some other
waiver that's -- that's not in connection with a -- with
a domestic relations thing? You know -- "I've made my
-- my eldest son a beneficiary." It turns out, you
know, he is fat and happy; he doesn't need the money and
he agrees to waive it, so -- so I can give it to an
impecunious daughter. Okay? What -- what happens with
that?
MR. LEVY: Well, first of all, that would
run squarely into the plan document's argument.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ah. Oh, oh, oh. You're
jumping over to the other argument. Let's leave that
argument out.
MR. LEVY: If it's not a marital dissolution
context, then QDRO wouldn't apply one way or the other.
Now, in that context, I think what you're suggesting,
Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but you would still --
the plan would still have to make some inquires,
wouldn't it?
MR. LEVY: Not -- well, just on -- not
getting to the plan documents.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. Not getting in the
plan documents.
MR. LEVY: It would be a different case. I
mean, this case involves what Congress specifically
looked at and specifically did in the context of marital
dissolution, and the reason for that is a marital
dissolution comes up all the time.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure.
MR. LEVY: It's a commonplace in these
benefits issues, and these are high-volumes operations.
The plan administrators aren't lawyers. Congress wanted
bright-line rules that could be easily applied here, not
general principles to be applied for the facts and
circumstances of each particular case, highly
fact-intensive, highly subjective inquiries. Congress
didn't want any of that. It didn't want the plan
administrator to have to look behind the face of the
order to the circumstances of the --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm five minutes behind. I
just got your point on the (iii)(1). I see it.
MR. LEVY: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay? I get it.
MR. LEVY: It didn't want the plan
administrators to have to try and divine the intention
of the parties, didn't want the plan administrators to
have to hold a factfinding hearing before it could pay
plan benefits. That is completely foreign to the
efficient and simple operation that Congress had in
mind.
Now let me turn to the anti-alienation issue
about which there have been several questions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Before you do, leaving
the plan -- the beneficiary designation, you say that
the plan administrator is not required to give effect to
a waiver that conflicts with the beneficiary
designation. Is it just not required? Does the
administrator have discretion to give effect to the
waiver, or it -- must it disregard the waiver and
strictly follow the beneficiary designation?
MR. LEVY: I believe it must follow the
beneficiary designation. Indeed, my understanding is it
has a fiduciary duty and a legal requirement to follow
the plan designation. Now, the plan might specify
alternatives. Here, for example, the plan said, here's
a form that you fill out. And William Kennedy filled it
out with respect to a different plan, the pension and
retirement plan. But where the plan says, "we will pay
the designated beneficiary" -- and that's what this plan
says -- then the plan administrator is required, as I
understand it, to pay that designated beneficiary.
Now let me say a word since this came up,
although it's not really central to the change of
beneficiary designation that William filed for this
other plan that's not now before the Court, the pension
and retirement plan. And I would say only two things
about that: One is at JA 62, and if you look at it, it
says in the title and it says in the body of the
document that this applies to the pension and retirement
plan. We don't think anyone could have thought that it
applied to other plans and that William therefore was
changing the beneficiary as to those other plans. In
fact, at JA 28 in paragraph 10, there was a stipulation
of fact in the district court that William never changed
the designation as to the savings and investment plan,
the SIP that is before the Court today. So it was not
only not raised below, it was stipulated away and I
think that was --
JUSTICE BREYER: Let me go back for a second
because, while I got it five minutes late, if I have it
right, I still don't see why Congress would have done it
literally.
I think what you're saying is: "Read the
full four pages. What those four pages say are, Judge,
you have an order, a divorce decree. It's defined as an
order. Look at it. It's qualified or it isn't. If
it's qualified, pay the money to the person it names.
If it's not qualified, pay the money to the person,
namely Liv, who would have been entitled to the amount
if there had been no order."
Okay. You read that literally as you want
and what it says is: "Liv, you're being divorced. You
want a divorce; your husband wants a divorce; you're
going to be divorced. You cannot waive the benefit
under the plan." Now, why would Congress not want her
to be able to waive it? Why?
MR. LEVY: I don't think the issue -- I
mean, a lot depends on the wording.
JUSTICE BREYER: I can understand an anti-
alienation provision. That's some guy who is going to
come along and grab this money when you want to take
care of a widow, and you want to take care -- but -- but
this isn't that. It's just -- she just wants to waive
it; she doesn't want it. That's the widow herself.
Okay, so why would Congress --
MR. LEVY: Two things: One, we think that
purpose does apply here. I mean, the point of
anti-alienation provision is to guard against the
temptation to trade off future pension benefits in
exchange for immediate economic gain or advantage.
That's exactly what Liv did in the divorce. She got the
Mercedes, she got other things. She traded off her
pension benefits, and we think that falls squarely
within the purpose of the anti-alienation provision.
JUSTICE BREYER: I see.
MR. LEVY: That's the first and, I think,
most important answer.
The other thing is that we are not saying --
our position today does not mean that divorcing parties
can -- can be foreclosed from eliminating the death
benefits -- the death benefits for the designated
beneficiary; but they have to follow procedures that
comply with ERISA. The most -- the most direct and
simplest one is the change of beneficiary form. William
didn't do that here. That's undisputed. They could
have entered into a QDRO, and that would have gone --
the money would have gone to Liv as an alternate payee.
That would have taken the benefits, consistent with
ERISA, away from Liv and given them to Kari. They could
have done that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why -- why do
they have to worry about that? The simplest thing is
for the participant to change the designation, and if
there's a divorce, the divorcee is no longer a spouse
under the terms of the plan, so he is free to do that.
It seems odd to me that they have this elaborate QDRO
provision when it shouldn't be necessary.
MR. LEVY: It's not necessary. It's simply
another alternative, but I agree with you, Mr. Chief
Justice, that the most direct and straightforward --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But another
alternative is that all you can -- you can cross out
this name and put in another, or you can go to court,
get this, qualify it as a QDRO, file it with the plan.
I mean, why would anybody do that?
MR. LEVY: They wouldn't have to.
Now, let me turn to this issue about what is
an assignment or alienation when we disagree with our
friends from the Solicitor General's Office. We think
Liv's purported waiver here was an assignment or
alienation within the IRS definition. The IRS
regulation is reprinted at page 15 of the body of the
red brief, and it provides that assignment or alienation
is defined to include any direct or indirect arrangement
whereby a party acquires an interest from the
beneficiary. And I've left out the not -- the
not-critical language for present purposes. So it talks
about an indirect arrangement whereby a party acquires
an interest from the beneficiary.
Now, the government argues that that
definition requires that the beneficiary, first, must
direct the transfer and, second, it must direct it to a
third party. The government's argument rests not on the
language of the regulation that I just read but on a
legal argument that this is what terms meant at common
law. But that position simply can't be squared with the
language of the regulation. As I just said, the
regulation includes an indirect arrangement within the
definition of "assignment or alienation."
JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't -- isn't the
problem that it must be an indirect arrangement, and
what you are arguing for here is an indirect effect.
And it has that indirect effect on your reasoning
because of the -- of the waiver and because of probate
law. And it seems to me, as I read the -- the IRS reg,
the "arrangement" that it's referring to is an
arrangement which in and of itself would -- would effect
the transfer. And that is not the case here.
MR. LEVY: Well, we think it is. The
arrangement here effected transfer to the estate under
the plan default rule. The estate was next in line. So
if this is a relinquishment -- I don't want to use the
word "waiver." But if this is a relinquishment of her
interest, then it went to the estate.
That's what the plan provides, but it's not
just the phrase "indirect arrangement" that we rely on,
Justice Souter. It's also the phrase "a party
acquirer." It doesn't say a party acquirer at or by the
direction of the beneficiary. -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's -- that's the
point that troubles me. It's -- it's the "acquirer's"
language.
Does -- does the person who -- who receives
the -- the refused benefit acquire it from the other
person? He certainly doesn't do so for Federal tax
purposes.
MR. LEVY: Well, that's back to the
disclaimer, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SOUTER: The only person who
acquires it -- the only entity that acquires it is the
estate.
MR. LEVY: Yes, that's right under the
default rule. And if the default rule had a -- if the
plan had a different default rule, under the default
rule maybe it goes to the children.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does he acquire it from a
participant or beneficiary?
MR. LEVY: He acquires it from the
beneficiary list.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought the -- the notion
is it's as though the -- it's as though the devise to
the person refusing it had never occurred. I mean,
there is -- there is no gift tax payable or anything
else.
MR. LEVY: Well, there is no gift tax
payable if it's a qualified disclaimer, and it won't be
in a divorce case because there will be consideration
and that prevents a qualified disclaimer. So that's a
different situation, but the word "acquired" doesn't
mean --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You made the contention
now -- and I think you have it in your brief -- that if
you get something in return for a disclaimer, then the
disclaimer is not effected. That it's effected only if
you receive nothing in return. And what -- what is the
source of that contention that you can't disclaim if you
get something in return?
MR. LEVY: The -- it's -- under the Gift Tax
Code Justice Ginsburg, section 2518 defines a qualified
disclaimer, which means you don't pay gift tax on it.
It's as if the interest had never been transferred. And
one of the conditions of that qualified disclaimer is
that the disclaimant not accept any interest or any of
its benefits. So if there is consideration, if the
person is in a better position than they would have been
because they received consideration, then it won't be a
qualified disclaimer for gift tax purposes.
But there won't ever be a disqualified
disclaimer for that reason in a -- in the divorce
context. It simply --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is the -- is the wife --
I'm thinking of the Chief Justice's question, too. If
your -- the woman is Wife X, and her ex has a pension.
Doesn't something vest there? She is in California.
Doesn't she have some vested right to some of that
pension?
MR. LEVY: In her own pension?
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose she's married for
40 years to Joe Smith, Joe Smith earns a pension and
then he wants a divorce. Doesn't she have some right to
some of that money.
MR. LEVY: Well, I think under section 1055
there's a right to different annuities. That that was a
new provision in the Retirement Equity Act in 1984.
JUSTICE BREYER: Does she get some of the
money he saved?
MR. LEVY: Yes, she's entitled to it.
JUSTICE BREYER: So it's not exactly that
you could have just changed the beneficiary. If you
just changed the beneficiary, you'd have to give her
something else.
MR. LEVY: After the divorce she is not
entitled. It's only a spouse who is entitled to the
benefits .
JUSTICE BREYER: But in the divorce
proceeding she's going to get some of the money, which
is now just the inverse point, to which she is entitled.
So obviously she will get something, but she's entitled
to it.
MR. LEVY: Right, I think that's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not, not obviously.
I mean it depends what the divorce is. She got the
Mercedes, right? I mean, she can get -- it depends on
the divorce arrangement, not anything under ERISA, once
she is a nonspouse.
MR. LEVY: Once she is a nonspouse she is no
longer entitled to those benefits under ERISA section
1055.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Furlow, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT BY DAVID A. FURLOW
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. FURLOW: Thank you, Your Honor. Chief
Justice Roberts, you were asking about the evidence
earlier with respect to the possession in DuPont office
own files of the divorce decree and of the notice that
was given saying: Please don't pay leave; she's already
waived all of her benefits. You will find that on page
76 of the joint appendix in the sworn amended affidavit
of Mary Dineen, the plan's administrator, specifically
at paragraph 20, page 76, where she says in bold: "Upon
its receipt" -- meaning the April 26, 2001, letter from
Kari Kennedy Duckworth -- "Exhibit No. 1 was maintained
as a record of DuPont with regard to the SIP account of
William Patrick Kennedy." That's joint appendix 76,
paragraph 20. It was within the regular course of
business of DuPont to maintain a copy of this letter
with other DuPont letters relating to Mr. Kennedy's SIP
account at the time the letter was received from its
sender. The letter is then attached as the next exhibit
that follows on. That would be about pages 78 to 79.
And there it says the divorce decree was attached.
Make no mistake: DuPont had that divorce
decree and could see the knowing, voluntary waiver and
had it well in advance of making its decision to pay
money to a woman who went off to Norway and paid her
when she was over there, where there was no prospect of
grabbing it back and turning it over to the executor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They look at it and
say, is this a QDRO? And if no, then they go back to
the other provision, I guess on page 21a in the red
brief, and say: If it's not a QDRO, ignore it.
MR. FURLOW: Well, Your Honor, it's more
interesting than that, actually, in that if you look to
page 68 of the joint appendix you'll see Mary Dineen,
the administrator, was saying, quote: "Had Liv Kennedy
disclaimed her designation of the beneficiary of
Mr. Kennedy's SIP, that declination or disclaimer or a
copy would have been included in the beneficiary
designation file." So they're taking disclaimers or
waivers. They're taking declinations, which is a fancy
Latin way of saying waiver. They've got them in their
files. They're acting on it. But here they decided to
pay the money to the person who has voluntarily waived,
knowing the issue, not asking their in-house counsel at
no cost to make an examination here. And why? So that
they can later take this plan documents rule and take it
all the way to this court. But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was this waiver only part
of the divorce degree? Do you agree with your friend on
that point?
MR. FURLOW: Well, this waiver was the part
in which Liv Kennedy waived all right so that he
retained all of his --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not separate and
apart from the divorce decree.
MR. FURLOW: It was not separate and apart.
In fact, when they were transferring benefits they knew
what to do and they used the waiver to transfer part of
the benefits.
It is interesting, Your Honors, that they
talked about the plan documents rule, but their own
documentation says, their own plan says, that the only
plan documents -- and I quoted it here on page 25 of our
reply brief -- "The official plan documents are the E.I.
DuPont de Nemours & Company savings and investment plan
and the trust agreement," not beneficiary designations.
So they give no notice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you have anything
more to say on the plan document, the plan document
issue than what you've said here.
MR. FURLOW: Oh, I could come up with lots
of things. That's a bad idea.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Thank you,
counsel. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 1:56 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
56:19 55:3 18:1 39:4,7,9 29:6 31:6
51:19 28:17,19 34:2 35:1 47:25 appears 19:24 48:15,19 49:4
advance 17:25 alternatives 13:12 16:1,8 27:9
affidavit 54:1 13:21 32:1,7 application 15:16 30:17
50:11,11 29:20 31:14 amount 13:16 45:7 assignment
affirmed 23:17 35:25 36:1 applies 36:25 12:12 18:10,13
47:25 55:17 18:17 34:19 36:20 assuming 26:22
6:5 8:19 41:10 annuities 52:14 appropriate 54:14
26:2 agreement 56:9 answer 24:4 4:15 24:3 Attorney 19:11
agrees 40:17 30:19,21 31:9 27:18 30:10 attorneys 8:25
Ah 42:11 answering 24:14 approval 13:2 attorney-nego...
aired 27:20 24:5 25:21 49:8 avoids 34:19
alienation 18:10 46:19,25 4:1 5:2,11 11:9 awful 25:3
41:17,19 36:1 48:6 17:2,2,3 22:5 B
3:4 9:25 48:9,12,14 30:16 32:7 29:11,16 33:20 24:13 25:4
19:23 49:5 apart 38:5 41:11 34:21 35:1 34:24 39:9,10
22:20 ALITO 17:1,17 41:11,12 55:23 36:8,18,21 40:21 45:15
54:20,22 7:25 16:20,24 31:25 32:22 44:24 chosen 27:5
35:12,18 40:24 33:24 8:15 19:8,20 17:15 19:4,7
46:24 47:7,7 bring 11:8 certainty 27:9 21:8 22:9,16
2:4,6,9,12 52:25 53:13,25 41:3 certiorari 3:12 27:20,25 28:4
22:6 29:12 55:25 56:2 business 54:9 3:24 23:20 29:21,23
bet 40:17 28:5 30:8 circuits 28:1,6,6
7:11,20 beyond 20:21 C 2:1 3:1 25:15 Circuit's 7:14
9:10 12:25 21:10 26:18 California 52:5 change 6:10 7:3 41:24
18:11 31:12 called 3:14 12:3 10:15,16 12:16 circumstances
37:14 bit 11:18 16:24 30:6 19:25 26:23 43:11,15
44:12 26:8 candor 4:21 27:5 44:24 cited 20:17
bold 54:3 46:13 20:22 classic 31:13,18
12:16 bond 8:16,16 case 3:4 4:12,13 26:25 27:2 clause 7:13 15:1
21:12,14 bothering 24:21 4:16 5:24 6:1 45:10 52:20,21 17:13 25:21
23:7 bound 14:16 7:15 9:4,10 changes 13:5 40:7
7:3,6 9:10 12:11 14:11 changing 26:17 38:10,17 40:24
8:2,22 Breyer 5:10,15 15:2,3 17:19 45:8 client 37:9
24:20 25:13 18:19 21:1 checklist 41:8 cobble 20:19
11:14,18 35:23 36:17,18 22:9 23:13 Chief 3:3,9 9:7 Code 51:15
13:6,15 38:22 39:6,14 24:11 26:9 9:19 10:14 collateral 20:7
20:22 39:15,20 40:1 27:3,7 28:15 11:4,17 13:24 come 5:6 13:20
22:23 40:4,22 43:16 28:20 29:25 19:15,19 21:17 16:22 21:18
43:19 45:15 30:6,7,11,13 22:3,7 27:24 32:7 34:24
46:10 47:1 30:22 31:13,19 28:10 29:9,13 40:21 41:21
36:2 52:2,9,16,19 31:21 32:10 30:12 31:4 46:12 56:14
44:5,7,11 53:1 33:25 34:1 47:17,25 48:2 comes 4:15
bridge 20:21 36:6,7 39:12 52:3 53:7,15 11:22 43:4
47:8,10 brief 3:21 4:22 42:25 43:1,11 53:20 54:21 coming 9:25
15:24 24:10 49:14 51:3 56:11,16 common 9:16
50:18,20 25:2,19,19 56:17,18 child 16:17 22:21 25:12,22
55:4 26:2 30:6 31:8 cases 6:2 11:11 children 50:16 28:9,25 37:8
56:9 31:16,16 32:7 11:12 14:1 choice 28:22 49:1
50:5 48:14 51:8 29:22 32:6 choose 4:10 43:6
briefed 5:13 central 4:13,17 15:2 company 13:14
14:4 3:11 25:18,23 36:7 54:8 dead 36:4 1:20 5:3,5,5
32:21 51:3,20 court 1:1,14 deal 31:15 39:12 19:4
considerations 4:10,12,16,16 47:6,7 16:18
43:24 considered 21:2 14:11,16 15:16 13:17 53:8,9
36:13 47:14 25:11,25 27:18 23:25 31:2,9 designated
20:24 30:7,13,14 decided 8:6 designating 6:17
12:21 32:14,20,22 23:13 29:21 8:2 10:25
context 17:15 courts 9:16,17 decision 4:19 44:5,8,11,13
38:19 41:23 Court's 6:2 19:3 54:17 47:19 55:4,7
contingent court-appointed 55:8 26:14,17 56:9
37:10 cousin 30:24 37:16,25 38:2 determine 26:20
33:7 control 28:8 creditors 14:19 45:21 53:23 determined
convenience 13:10 deemed 34:22 determining
54:9 55:6 curiae 1:21 2:7 50:14,14,15,15 devise 50:22
38:18 23:16 28:3 curious 6:9 defined 15:20 different 6:9
41:3 40:14 16:13 45:21 12:11 23:13
correspond 21:3 D 48:15 34:6 42:25
46:6,16 cost 12:4 55:13 d 3:1 34:23 defines 51:15 44:18 50:15
12:3,5 22:3 date 16:24 28:6 48:22 49:5 differently 36:9
13:19 course 4:21 2:11 3:7 53:18 11:23 Dineen 54:2
11:15 12:6 days 6:22 8:13 denied 33:3 55:2
47:9 8:14 9:4,9 10:1 10:2 13:13 enforceable exception 18:10
11:23 18:2 14:21 15:4,6 7:18 9:5,18 18:14,20 22:17
48:9 52:11,23 53:1 10:9,23 35:19 37:3,9 54:20
55:23 53:3,4,13 exhibit 54:5,12
divorcing 3:16 earlier 12:7 26:1 ERISA 7:16,17 expected 8:15
22:11 47:5 26:4 53:22 11:12,12 14:1 expenses 14:12
doctrine 29:19 earns 52:10 15:17 16:3 expertise 19:5,9
33:14 documentation economic 46:21 53:10,13 32:20
56:5 effect 10:25 ERISA's 22:10 explicitly 23:23
34:9 19:24 20:15,23 11:19,21 12:20 17:15 exposes 21:13
26:20 28:8,14 effected 49:16 ESQ 1:17,19,22 extrinsic 26:19
38:15 42:22,24 55:14 effective 18:23 essentially 29:1 17:23
document's 4:19 efficient 33:7 13:17 14:12 22:12
42:10 effort 38:25 49:16,17,20 E.I 56:7
22:13 34:3 24:19 25:8 ET 1:3,8 F
40:7 41:12,23 35:3 everybody's fact 4:22 7:2
doorways 24:14 eldest 42:4 evidence 53:21 32:9 39:8 45:9
42:14 doubt 14:6,8 emphasizing exactly 15:6 factfinding
15:7 4:12 18:24 46:22 43:23
13:15 driving 32:15 enacted 38:20 examination fact-intensive
22:21 forbids 22:10 21:20 53:16,18 10:8,17 20:21 helpful 15:23
28:8 foreclosed 47:6 53:20 54:25 21:9 23:24 37:15
50:6 foreign 43:24 55:19,24 56:14 30:15 46:5,11 helps 37:12
44:14 8:2 22:13 28:20 29:8 31:6,24 32:11 high-volumes
5:2,8 47:10 future 18:6 32:6 48:21 history 38:16,17
7:13 format 4:22 46:20 government's 40:21 41:1
10:11 forms 10:19 28:2 48:24 hold 4:7 43:23
17:15 26:7 G governs 34:1 holding 3:15
formulating G 3:1 grab 46:12 41:24
22:9,15 7:21 gain 46:21 grabbing 54:20 holds 10:11
24:24 formulation general 1:20 grant 23:20 25:1 Honor 3:22 4:9
28:13 28:8 17:10 19:11,12 25:9,11 30:8 5:14 6:20 8:10
41:24 forth 5:6 19:16 20:13 32:15 8:24 10:3,18
48:5 55:7 four 3:17 4:5 General's 48:10 33:2,2,3,10,23 14:10 15:11,24
30:6 40:17 55:17 4:6 6:8,13 8:5 23:13,14 29:7 54:25
34:10,13 friends 48:10 8:20 32:12,17 guard 46:19 Honors 16:7,14
friend's 37:7 44:4 51:7,15 guess 31:4 54:23 21:5 56:3
20:12 fullness 33:11 44:6,9 52:21 H Hughes 20:25
30:23 fully 5:13 27:19 56:10 H 34:8,17 35:8 21:1
42:9 31:25 32:21 given 16:9 25:20 35:16 36:22 husband 46:4
48:22 33:13,24 36:11 47:15 handle 14:17
9:15 15:19 giver 40:2 28:20 32:6 idea 56:15
41:9 4:9 5:14,25 go 5:17,18 12:5 42:7 36:6
6:14,20 8:10 16:1 27:18 happy 42:5 iii 34:17 35:8,14
8:24 9:9,21 31:9 39:1,4 hard 36:4 36:6 43:17
interpretation juncture 25:10 k 15:15 49:3 50:3
17:13 19:1,8 junk 8:16 9:22 14:14 late 45:16
25:18 investment 1:8 5:15,22 6:7,8 Kennedy 1:3 3:4 32:18 33:18
47:3 3:5 45:11 56:8 6:12,14,16 8:5 6:7,15,16 7:3 34:12 40:18
invoke 7:13 10:14 11:4,17 12:19 14:14 9:16 12:2
involves 43:1 18:8,12,18 54:5,7 55:3,20 lawyers 13:9
31:25 in-house 12:3,5 22:3,7,25 23:9 54:10 55:5 lay 13:9
IRS 34:25 48:12 26:3,22 27:13 know 5:16,21,22 leave 33:8 42:12
49:4,7,8 10:10 25:9 31:4,18 32:5 24:11,16,18,25 legal 13:14
26:2 29:21,23 32:12,17 33:9 29:22,25 30:22 44:14 49:1
32:21 38:19 35:7,15,23 knowing 7:23 38:17 40:20
7:12,25 J 42:23 43:5,16 leveled 4:1
25:7,17
14:25 JA 45:3,9 43:19 44:4 26:6 27:3,17 Levy 1:22 2:8
48:16,20 Jasper 14:12 45:15 46:10 28:3,12 29:10,11,13
51:17,19 jobs 28:19 47:1,17 48:1,2 30:2,5,19,23
joint 10:19 50:10,17,21 Labor 5:5 32:16,19 33:11
55:2 52:16,19 53:1 language 4:20 34:17 36:16,20
9:10 judgment 4:23 54:21 55:16,22 13:12 15:16 37:22 38:2,7
14:23 29:6 31:14 Justice's 52:3 37:12 38:8 39:13,17,25
loss 21:14 meant 16:22 47:24 once 53:10,12
41:16,21 lot 34:19 36:16 49:1 need 18:13 opening 25:18
46:9 mechanism 23:12 33:20 operation 43:25
lots 56:14 41:25 39:16 42:5 operational
46:8,17 meetable 20:22 Nemours 56:8 11:13
48:7 M mention 4:18 never 12:3 45:10 operations 43:7
50:8,13 maintain 54:9 Mercedes 46:23 50:23 51:17 opinion 13:13
51:1,14 maintained 54:5 53:9 nevertheless 4:3 13:24 19:3
13:2 28:1 merely 22:19 Ninth 20:23 31:8
30:8 Manning 20:16 45:16 53:16 53:11,12 26:20 27:7,8
42:14 43:2,3 misinterpreted note 10:13 35:17,19,21,22
46:2 marriage 11:16 mistake 54:15 notifies 10:8 40:7,8,10,12
28:20 Mary 9:25 11:23 money 14:15 not-critical 41:6,6,6,12
materials 15:23 25:3 42:5 number 3:12,24 46:1
39:3 4:24 5:19 6:8 47:13 52:12,17 original 4:3
46:3,22 12:4 20:10 53:2 54:18 O outcome 10:21
55:3 22:21 36:23 55:11 O 2:1 3:1 outdated 19:7
56:19 mongering objection 4:1 outside 12:5
mean 19:13 months 10:2 obviously 10:12 overlapping
36:5 37:11,23 13:6 occurred 50:23 override 29:1
15:14,15 46:9,18 47:5 N odd 8:7 47:22
19:21 48:6 50:23 N 2:1,1 3:1 offer 8:11 P
35:8 51:6 53:8,9 name 19:24 20:6 office 48:10 P 3:1
43:14 meaning 11:13 48:4 53:22 page 2:2 4:22
54:21 16:4,10 23:7 named 8:21 17:5 official 56:7 6:8,11 10:19
54:4 17:6 oh 38:1 42:11,11 10:22 13:11
payable 50:24 33:14 53:19 please 3:10 22:8 privacy 21:14
45:20,20 payee 15:18,20 22:18 point 12:7,7 probate 14:16
17:5 18:1 39:5 phrase 49:22,23 15:5 18:8,9,12 49:10
26:11 payees 16:12,13 Piper 30:6,23 26:9 29:24 15:5,8 49:7
41:3 16:16 plain 38:17 32:25 38:4 procedural
payment 17:22 plain-meaning 41:19,22 43:17 29:17
54:3,8 payments 16:12 plan 1:6,8 3:4,5 53:3 55:18 26:10,17
36:21 payout 10:2 9:20,21,23,25 portion 13:11 proceedings
56:1 pays 35:14 10:14,19 11:19 position 5:7,9 28:21 29:8
19:25 7:10,25 16:20 12:14,21,23 18:24 19:9 prohibited
26:13 16:24 17:7 13:13,16,25 28:2,7 47:5 25:21
47:19 22:12 34:1 14:2 16:18 49:2 51:21 prohibition
44:18 45:1,5 19:22,23,24,25 positively 9:15 18:20
14:25 52:7,8,10 21:3,4,6,12,24 possible 25:8 properly 3:24
people 12:25 22:12,20,23 28:19 32:19 24:8 29:17
13:9 25:1 32:7 23:3,4,4,7 24:4 possibly 5:17 32:2
perfectly 13:22 26:4,8,9,15,16 preclude 28:8 proposes 28:9
28:17 person 14:7 28:7,14 29:2,3 prepared 4:3 prospect 54:19
43:22 19:24 20:1 29:16 33:6,20 8:2 protect 21:24
21:7,15 26:12 34:1 35:5,10 prescribed protection 21:11
36:3 37:2,8 39:22 41:4,8 present 3:18 provide 6:4 27:9
39:1,6,23 42:10,19,22,24 48:18 provides 35:4,9
50:6,10,23 43:24 44:5,6 presumably provision 6:4,21
23:5 39:23 46:6 47:21 34:21 36:22 38:20,21
35:5,10 petition 24:10 48:5 49:17,21 prevents 51:4 40:22 41:7
36:4 28:5 30:14 50:15 55:14 prevision 39:11 46:11,19,25
39:18,19 Petitioner 22:15 56:4,5,6,7,8,12 principally 47:23 52:15
43:23 23:22 28:9,25 56:12 27:15 54:23
45:23 31:25 planners 17:8 principle 25:25 provisions 6:10
51:16 Petitioners 1:4 plans 7:5 45:7,8 principles 43:10 10:21 22:25
54:17 1:18 2:4,12 3:8 plan's 54:2 prior 7:8 8:4 purported 34:21
25:19,22 26:2 pleasant 34:14 13:8 26:25 48:11
28:4 29:17 reasons 24:2 rely 49:22 51:13
50:7 32:6,7,13,14 22:1 53:18 5:23 29:7,24 revoke 8:6,12
33:1,2,16,22 receipt 54:4 31:3 revoked 8:3,8
35:6 37:2,13 52:3 18:4,5 26:10 reply 3:20 24:23 right 3:16 4:8
questions 29:15 51:11 26:2 31:16,16 5:17 6:24 7:12
48:4 44:3 51:22 54:11 reprinted 48:13 13:14 18:5
quote 13:13 41:1 recognize 22:22 require 15:18 35:17 37:18
quoted 12:13 recognized 26:1 required 17:25 45:17 50:13
56:6 record 54:6 22:21 44:6,8 52:6,11,14
5:8 6:3 38:25 39:11 reed 20:19 44:14 Roberts 3:3 9:7
16:9 refer 10:9 16:18 requires 23:5 9:19 10:14
R referred 37:16 48:22 11:4,17 13:24
18:9 R 1:19 2:5 3:1 referring 49:12 requiring 41:5 19:15,19 21:17
22:5 refers 40:7 reserve 27:22 22:3 27:24
22:17 races 40:19 refused 27:1 resolve 33:7 28:10 29:9
34:7 raise 33:3 50:5 resolved 39:21 30:12 31:4
38:20,25 raised 4:24 24:8 refusing 50:23 respect 13:19,21 47:17 48:2
24:9 28:4 reg 49:11 17:24 27:10 53:7,15,21
29:20 45:13 regard 54:6 44:18 53:22 54:21 56:11,16
47:12,22 raising 10:10 regular 54:8 respond 4:1 role 4:19,24
54:22,24 Rayno 30:7 regulation 19:2 Respondents rubble 9:11
reached 23:16 48:13,25 49:3 16:8 29:12 20:20 25:22
34:3 34:11 36:5 rejected 27:16 responses 36:17 29:2 34:1,5
45:19 46:2 30:3 31:19 rest 36:13 49:17 50:14,14
37:16 48:25 49:11 relating 54:10 restates 37:12 50:15,16 55:14
45:22,23 reading 34:14 relations 3:13 rests 48:24 56:4
51:2,4 reads 17:11 22:13 34:3 retained 7:1 ruled 9:3,17
really 5:19 35:2 37:17 55:21 11:10
6:9,12 reason 8:12 relationship retirement 7:5 run 42:10
15:9 28:14,23 29:5 33:1 44:19 45:2,5
23:21,25 32:1 43:3 relied 5:1 52:15 S
51:25 relinquishing retirements S 2:1 3:1
reasonable 7:11 22:11 7:10 salaried 20:25
27:14,16 reasoning 23:15 relinquishment retrospect 12:15 save 22:2
56:8 55:2 sketch 3:19 stated 6:1 42:16
19:12,21 sell 21:16 21:23 41:25 stating 3:23 suit 20:9 41:13
47:4 send 20:1 25:4 solely 4:19 5:1 statute 5:4,9 summary 4:23
55:3,9 sender 54:12 Solicitor 1:19 15:17 16:3,4,9 7:18
17:11 35:24 36:12 20:12 48:10 23:1,3,8 29:1 8:3 13:8
20:18
39:18 41:13 55:22,24 36:15 statutory 25:24 19:1
40:15 series 7:4 13:5 son 42:4 28:16 33:4 supports 5:7
45:4
46:3 54:3 serves 28:15 15:22 37:17 step 14:9,10 Suppose 52:9
56:5,5 set 14:3 39:20 stipulated 45:13 supposed 19:23
18:8,12 setting 39:2 20:8 28:9 straightforward Supreme 1:1,14
23:18 settled 29:19 37:12 34:19 38:11,15 14:11
26:3
27:13 sharp 27:25 sounds 13:25 stretch 11:18 24:18 25:15
30:3,17 short 23:10 source 51:12 strictly 12:22 30:19,21 43:5
31:18 shrift 23:10 Souter 15:3,9,12 44:11 surviving 10:24
33:9 sibling 30:24 49:6,23 50:10 strong 24:22 sworn 54:1
35:7
37:1,6 28:11 specific 6:25 stuff 20:3
sides 31:6 15:16,17 38:18 subject 3:25 T
signed 16:25 38:19,19 subjective 43:12
specifically submission take 5:9 7:22
42:1 signed-by-her 15:25 16:7,14 22:18
30:15
20:15,20 43:1 submit 7:10 33:19 36:2
50:1,9,17 signing 8:2 43:2 54:2 12:24 13:7,10 46:12,13 55:14
55:16,22 similar 33:3 specify 26:10 13:22 19:11 55:14
28:5 simply 15:1 18:4 31:5 34:8 35:8,16 talk 6:19
48:23 20:13 26:25 spouse 3:16 6:18 36:22 talked 56:4
34:8 47:24 49:2 22:11 47:20 substance 5:18 talks 48:18
52:13 52:1 52:24 substantial tax 36:10 50:6
SIP 10:23 13:13 squared 49:2 14:11 21:9 50:24 51:1,14
25:13 situation 4:17 stance 5:6 20:24 telemarketing
38:1,1,4 51:5 stand 16:2 subsumed 30:9 21:14
40:16 situations 12:25 start 34:18,25 success 10:9 tell 20:2
thinking 52:3 Treasury's 5:3 valid 7:18 11:13 10:12 12:2
12:23 thoroughly 18:7 troubles 50:2 30:7 9:13 10:15
15:17 thought 11:4 trust 56:9 vest 52:5 14:1,6 16:5
47:21 23:19 38:24 trustee 13:17 vested 52:6 23:25 25:2,13
45:6 50:21 try 5:15 43:21 view 18:19 25:14,14 29:15
throw 19:19 33:22 44:2 voluntary 7:17 46:4,6,12,13
53:15,20 time 9:13 11:22 turning 54:20 11:13,24 12:1 43:8
12:25 18:2,4 turns 42:4 13:1 14:18,18 wants 31:2,2
13:10 title 6:24 7:12 U 36:10 39:8 33:2,3
42:3 7:25 8:14 45:4 uncertainty 40:5 42:6 46:5 waste 25:3
today 3:18 45:12 29:3 33:8 46:7,14 Watergate
38:24 told 19:6 8:9 12:1,19,20 8:13 18:5,7 way 3:16 8:7,24
46:17,23 topside 31:15 15:4 17:8,19 27:1 35:25,25 17:7 18:2
touted 19:10 44:22 46:10 36:1 53:25 19:21 20:21
17:20 tracks 20:13 10:12 27:25 waiver 6:23 7:16 32:13 42:15
23:2 trade 46:20 44:13 7:17,17,21,24 55:9,15
24:3 traded 46:23 undisputed 8:18,21 9:5,17 weeks 7:14 9:4,7
traditional 37:8 47:11 11:14,24 13:1 welfare 7:16
27:13 train 19:20 Undoubtedly 14:18 16:20,25 went 30:8 39:10
28:23 transfer 15:18 33:9 17:9,18,24 49:20 54:18
30:23 15:19 16:23 unfair 24:24 18:23 22:13 weren't 12:16
17:9 18:2,3 31:17 32:3 25:20,20 34:22 36:9 37:24
48:23 49:14,16 33:13 36:7,9,14,23 We'll 3:3 40:16
33:6,12 56:1 unique 32:11 37:6,23,24,25 we've 14:1 30:1
37:14 transferred United 1:1,14,21 38:6,11 40:9 30:24
39:13 16:24 18:1 2:6 40:13 41:11,13 whoever's 20:6
41:16,16 51:17 use 17:8 49:18 41:19 42:2 widow 46:13,15
45:6,14 transferring U.S 17:10 30:7 44:7,10,10 wife 7:12 8:12
46:8,17 55:25 U.S.C 15:15 48:11 49:10,19 18:3 35:25
47:2 Travelers 7:15 54:16 55:9,16 39:2,5 52:2,4
49:15 9:10 V 55:19 56:1 wife's 16:20
52:13 Treasury 5:5 v 1:5 3:4 4:11 waivered 36:14 17:16
45:7 1056 16:9 34:8 6 7:10
47:10 1056(b) 15:15 62 45:3
1056(d)(1) 34:23 68 55:2
21:23 7th 13:7
44:23 14A 15:25 16:8 78 54:13
51:5 15 48:13 79 54:13
39:2,3 1984 52:15
1994 18:2
20 54:3,8
21a 34:14,16,17
32:9 22 2:7
41:14 22A 16:15
48:7 23A 16:15
51:15
2:9 15:14
3
4
1:5 3:4 40 52:10
6:24
454 30:7
43:17 54:5 48 6:11 10:19,22
1:15 3:2 49 10:20 13:11
56:18 23:1
11:15 45:9
21:5 5
21:4 5 3:13
21:5 501(k) 8:8
52:13 53 2:12
