IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-608
RANDY EDWARD HAYES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 10, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:53 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Petitioner.
TROY N. GIATRAS, ESQ., Charleston, W.Va.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
TROY N. GIATRAS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 47
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:53 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 07-608, United States v. Hayes.
Ms. Saharsky.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. SAHARSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Respondent's conviction for battering his
wife is a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence
primarily for two reasons: First, the statutory text is
most naturally read that way. Second, a contrary
reading would defeat Congress's purposes.
Nine courts of appeals have determined that the text
does not require a domestic relationship to be an
element to the predicate offense. That's because the
statute's text uses only one element, using the singular
word "element," which relates to mode of aggression. It
then introduces a new concept related to domestic
relationship, using a comma and the word "committed."
The word "committed" naturally modifies the word
"offense." In common usage, a person commits an
offense; he doesn't commit a use or attempted use of
physical force.
Under Respondent's reading of the statute, when it was
enacted it would have become immediately a dead letter
in two-thirds of the States, and it wouldn't have any
application to the Federal Government. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, Respondent says that
may be because a lot of people in Congress wanted it to
be a dead letter. They would have wanted the whole
thing to be a dead letter. There are a lot of people
who didn't like this statute because it was a gun
control statute.
MS. SAHARSKY: But Congress did act this
statute, and this Court presumes two things: First --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if it's a compromise
with the people who wanted no statute at all and you
come out with a statute that covers one-third of the
States anyway, I mean that's, you know -- that's the
deal.
MS. SAHARSKY: There was a compromise made,
but it wasn't with respect to whether there needed to be
a domestic relationship element. It was with respect to
how violent the offense had to be.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How do we know -- how do we
know that?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, if you look at the
statute's drafting history, there were two versions
considered. One used the term "crime of violence" to
discuss how violent the statute had to be, and then the
second substituted in the new language: "...has as an
element the use or attempted use of physical force or
threatened use of a deadly weapon."
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it also substituted
this structure that we are -- that we are discussing
today. Didn't that come in at the same time?
MS. SAHARSKY: The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, why -- why say it's
only the former provision that was the compromise and
not the addition of this later language?
MS. SAHARSKY: Both the original structure
and the statute as enacted had the same structure in
that they had a "committed by" clause that modified the
word "offense."
Now, it's true that the use -- "has as an
element language" that came in added some additional
structure in terms of the Romanette (i) and the
Romanette (ii), but that all came in because there was a
discussion about how violent the offense had to be, both
-- in the original statute that was considered, you have
an offense committed by a certain person, an offense of
a certain type committed by a certain person, and in the
statute that was enacted you have an offense of a
certain type committed by a certain person. Now,
Congress put more detail in, in terms of what that
certain type of offense is. This has as an "element"
language, but it just didn't go to domestic
relationship.
And to get back to one of the earlier points
in your question, you know, this Court presumes when
Congress passes a statute two things are true: First,
it knows the legal backdrop on which it enacts the law;
and second, that it's presumed that its law is going to
have effect. And that should be especially true here
where Congress was dealing with a serious nationwide
problem of domestic violence using firearms. Congress
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The suggestion was that
Congress may have wanted to give an incentive to States
to have special domestic violence statutes instead of
punishing domestic abusers under a generic battery
statute.
MS. SAHARSKY: I don't think that makes
sense for two reasons: First, because when Congress
wants to do that, it uses its spending power to give the
States incentives to do things like that, and it did
that in the VAWA enactment in 1994 and in VAWA
re-authorization in 2005.
And, second, because if you believe what
Respondents suggest, you would have to think that a
Congress that was very concerned about the powder keg
situation of a domestic offender with a gun would want
to exempt domestic offenders who have proven that they
are willing to hurt family members in two-thirds of the
States, a Congress that was presumed -- that was
concerned with the problem of domestic violence would
enact a statute that would apply so infrequently, to at
most these 17 States, and wouldn't apply at all to
Federal offenses, making that "misdemeanor under Federal
law" language superfluous.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I
understand your objection to the reading that your
friend would have us adopt, but you have the same sort
of problem. I mean, you've got a -- if it reads the way
you would have it, then the word "that" after "an
offense that" doesn't quite work, and have you to add
"is" before "is committed," if you're going to keep the
"that." So it seems to me that this doesn't work
grammatically either way.
MS. SAHARSKY: I don't think that that's
right, with respect, Your Honor, because you have an
offense that is of a certain character committed by a
certain person.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you've changed
the word. You read it as if it says "an offense that
committed." So either the "that" is out or you've got
to add the word "is."
MS. SAHARSKY: I think that the word
"offense" is twice modified. There is an offense that
is of a certain character and there is an offense
committed by a certain --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. You use the
word "that" in the first example, but you skip the word
"that" in the second. "That" appears in the line and
then comes (i) and (ii). In other words, that modifies
both of them, and you're reading it that it's an offense
committed, and yet under the statute it has to be an
"offense that committed." So you've either got to leave
"that" out the second time but not the first or you've
got to add the word "is" as it appears in (i).
MS. SAHARSKY: What I'm suggesting, Your
Honor, is that the "that" refers to everything that is
in Romanette (i) and (ii) up to the break with
"committed by." So that it is an offense that is a
misdemeanor and has as an element "committed by." You
know, these -- these two different clauses both modify
"offense," just as a grammatical matter, not looking at
this Romanette (i) and (ii), but just looking at that
sentence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Romanette?
MS. SAHARSKY: Oh, little Roman numeral.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I've never heard
that before. That's -- Romanette.
(Laughter.)
MS. SAHARSKY: If you just look at this as a
sentence, you have "an offense that is a misdemeanor and
has as an element committed by." Now, that "committed
by" clause, it could have come after "offense" or it
could be in the place where it is now. There are just
these two different ways that offenses qualify.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't. I mean, you
have the "that," and the "that" applies to both (i) and
(ii), and this is part of (ii). I think you've got to
either say "that committed" or -- or put in an "is" --
"that is committed." It just doesn't parse, and that
lack of parsing is much worse than the one that you --
you point to in the other side's reading. Yes, it's not
usual to talk about committing a use of force, but it
happens sometimes. It's -- it's not the most elegant
language, but there are many examples of such usage that
have been brought forth by the other side and by some of
the amici. So they have something that -- it's not
elegant, but people have spoken that way. Nobody speaks
the way you want us to speak: "An offense that
committed by a person or an offense that" -- "committed
by a current or former..." Nobody talks that way.
MS. SAHARSKY: Two responses.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Nobody.
MS. SAHARSKY: Two responses, Your Honor.
First, the "committed by" language refers back to
"offense" and the "that" is just part of this -- this
first clause, but -- and we believe that the
Government's reading is the most logical reading. And
think of it this way: You know, Respondent agrees that
if there were a hard return before the "committed by"
language, that it's clear -- that it would be more clear
that the Government's reading is correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wouldn't agree with that.
You'd still have the "that" up above. You would have to
have a hard return and take out the "that" or -- or that
(A) is a misdemeanor, "has as an element" and then a
hard return, and you have to add "and is committed."
You still have to add language besides the hard return.
MS. SAHARSKY: With respect, Your Honor, we
think this can be read as all one sentence. But just to
make my second point, which is: I think that it would
do much more violence, Respondent's reading of the
statute, than you suggest because you're talking about
treating the singular word "element" as plural. You're
talking about ignoring the comma that separates the "has
as an element" section from the "committed by" section,
and then you're talking about taking what even the
linguists who filed a brief in this case essentially in
support of Respondents say is a very weird usage of
"committed."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do you -- I'm
sorry. I'm not following why "element" is singular.
The argument on the other side, I understood, is that
the element is the use of physical force committed by a
current or former spouse. So "element" is still
singular. I -- maybe I'm missing something. What
change would you have to make to the word "element" to
adopt their reading?
MS. SAHARSKY: We think that you'd say --
you'd have to say "has as its elements" to suggest that
you would take two very diverse concepts and make them
both required elements of the underlying offense.
There are two concepts here: One is how
violent the offense has to be, and then there's the
second concept, which is a class of defendants, and
that's a very different concept. But if you just see
the singular "element," "has as an element," and then
you see, oh, okay, it has to be violent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but I thought
the whole point of this was to get at violence committed
by a family member, and if that's the critical element,
you don't have to have two different elements,
"violence" and then "committed." It's violence
committed by a family member.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, with respect, Your
Honor, we think that because Congress broke these up
into these two different clauses -- one that relates to
violence and then a separate clause that's introduced by
"committed by" where "committed" naturally modifies
"offense" -- that it was treating -- that these were two
separate requirements. And you're right that Congress
was trying to get at the problem of violent domestic
offense, and if it was doing that it would make no sense
at all for Congress to -- to have enacted a statute that
would such extremely limited application. And, of
course, Respondent's reading would make the "is a
misdemeanor under Federal law" superfluous.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If we think that
there are two awkward readings, yours and your friend's,
and both of them require surgery, don't we resolve that
under the rule of lenity?
MS. SAHARSKY: No. The rule of lenity says
that there needs to be a grievous ambiguity after this
Court seizes aid -- any aid which can be derived from
the tools of statutory interpretation. So even though
we think that the text here is most naturally read in
the Government's way, every other indicia of meaning
here points in favor of the Government's interpretation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what -- what's
been the underlying rationale for the rule of lenity,
which is a rule I think we should apply with great
caution? But if we think -- what's the reason for the
rule of lenity?
MS. SAHARSKY: I think one of the -- the
main concerns is providing fair notice of what's
illegal.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Fair notice. It -- it --
it seems to me that if I were counsel practicing
criminal law in the private sector, and I negotiated a
plea for simple assault, but there was a spouse that was
involved, and then I walked down the courthouse step
with my clients, said we got a good deal, and
incidentally, all guns in your house must immediately be
surrendered to other people, you must take them all out,
you may never hunt, you may never possess a gun.
And under your view, if I don't say that I'm
guilty of, it seems to me, serious malpractice. I just
don't see that there is notice to the legal profession.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well certainly, Your Honor,
we think that the statutory text is clear, and that's
because people are presumed to know the law. Certainly
a person who has beaten his wife knows that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but the rule --
MS. SAHARSKY: -- the assault he was
convicted of is one against his wife.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. Where the context is,
we are asking why the rule of lenity and the rule of
lenity is to ensure notice. And it seems to me this is
a classic case where there has to be notice. You could
come back and say that even if the statute had been
written as to apply specifically to domestic crimes, a
lot of attorneys wouldn't have had notice on it when it
was an omnibus budget bill added at the last minute.
MS. SAHARSKY: Your Honor, it was at the
time that this statute was enacted the case that very
few States had statutes with a domestic relationship
requirement, only 17. And to be clear, in those 17
States those all covered more domestic relationships
than the Federal statute. They covered things like
dating relationships, violence involving grandparents,
etcetera. So that even from the face of your State
conviction, you wouldn't be able to just match it right
up with this Federal offense. And the fact that those
17 States -- A, that there was such a small number; and
B, that those States cover a different range of domestic
offenses --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There was a small, a
small number. Were they populous States?
MS. SAHARSKY: I think it was a range of
States. I don't think I could say it was all the most
populous or all the least populous States.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: California, New
York?
MS. SAHARSKY: You know, I'd have to look at
the list. I think that California came in later -- no,
California did have one statute; New York did not.
But you know, one thing that's worth
noticing in this case is that you know, the Senator,
Senator Lautenberg, who was the sponsor of this
legislation, was from New Jersey; and other Respondent's
reading of this statute it wouldn't have even applied to
offenses committed in New Jersey. And that seems like
an odd thing to believe. And of course, it wouldn't
have applied to Federal offenses despite the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask -- may I ask, to
make sure I understand the alternate reading. Is it
your view that the statute does mean the same as if,
after the words "deadly weapon," there had been inserted
a parenthetical (iii), closed paren, "is committed by"?
If -- now there is the element of "attempted use of
force" is one, is the second requirement; and the third
requirement is that it be committed by a current or
former spouse.
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. I think --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So your -- your reading --
I'm just following up on the Chief Justice's question --
requires us to assume that Congress really intended
there to be a triple "i" as well as a double "i", and
the triple "i" would have begun with the verb "is."
MS. SAHARSKY: I think that that's one way
of doing it, but I don't think that you have to do that,
because if you look at the structure of this sentence --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But it is true, is it not,
that if you did do it that way, it would have been a lot
clearer than it is now?
MS. SAHARSKY: There are ways that Congress
could have made its manifest intent even more clear. It
could have added that Romanette (iii); it could put a
hard return before "committed by." But if you look at
the effect that the statute would have, if you read it
Respondent's way, I don't think that we can reasonably
expect that Congress -- a Congress that wanted to get at
the serious nationwide problem of domestic violence
using firearms, would have wanted to enact a statute
that would have such limited effect.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I want to follow up on
Justice Kennedy's inquiry about the rule of lenity.
Don't you think the rule of lenity is particularly
important when you're dealing with conduct that is not
malum in se? I mean, to say that, well, we are not
going to apply the rule of lenity to a statute that
posits an increased sentence for kneecapping or for some
violent conduct, the person knows he shouldn't be doing
that stuff anyway. But this imposes a -- a -- a penalty
for conduct that no one would think is unlawful.
This fellow is -- wasn't it his father's gun
he was taking to sell at a gun show or something?
MS. SAHARSKY: There were five firearms.
There was one found in his home, three that he
transferred and one that he sold.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, he could have ten,
couldn't he?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, we would hope that he
wouldn't in this situation. But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why?
MS. SAHARSKY: Because he has been convicted
of a serious violent offense, and I think that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but for this
language that you say makes his owning of a firearm
unlawful, it wouldn't be unlawful at all, would it? He
would have no reason to think he couldn't have a
firearm.
MS. SAHARSKY: I think that a person who has
been committed of a violent offense should be on notice
that their procession of firearms --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Should be. Is that right?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: A misdemeanor -- a
misdemeanor offense. And -- and -- and he should
suspect that because he committed a misdemeanor, he
cannot have a firearm?
MS. SAHARSKY: When --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think anybody would
assume that. Indeed, there are some who assume that
you -- you cannot prevent the owning of a firearm for a
mere misdemeanor, as opposed to a felony.
MS. SAHARSKY: I understand that concern.
We are not talking about mere misdemeanors here. We are
talking about a specific category of violent
misdemeanors, Section 929(g)(9); specifically --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Make it clear.
Make it clear, so that when -- when his
lawyer pleads to the offense, he doesn't have to read in
a little (iii) where there is not a little (iii). And
he -- well, you did not plead guilty or you are not
accused of the offense of using violence against a
family member. You're just -- just accused of -- of
using violence, a misdemeanor.
MS. SAHARSKY: Two thoughts on that, Your
Honor. The first is, you know, at the time that this
statute was enacted almost all of the States except for
this small number prosecuted offenses that were domestic
disturbance offenses like the one in this case under
general assault and battery statutes, and even the 17
States that have those with the domestic relations,
offenses with the domestic relationship requirement,
still prosecute them routinely as assault and battery
under those general statutes.
So I think a person -- A, an attorney who
handles those kind of cases would have knowledge of that
law; and B, a person who has committed a serious violent
offense like Respondent's previous offense in this case
should be on notice that his possession of firearms
might be regulated.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- a serious violent
offense. Are there -- is there felony assault and
battery?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And this was misdemeanor
assault and battery, wasn't it?
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes, that's right. I mean, I
really --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it's not that serious an
offense. That's why we call it a misdemeanor.
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I mean, certainly the
offense is this particular case was serious. The
charging document reflects that Respondent hit his wife
all around the face until it swelled out, kicked her all
around her body, kicked here in the ribs --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Then he should have been
charged with a felony, but he wasn't. He was charged
with a misdemeanor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wasn't the -- wasn't the
statute responding to just that problem, that domestic
abuse tended to be charged as misdemeanors rather than
felonies? And it was that fact that the Senator was
responding to when he included misdemeanor. The whole
purpose of this was to make a misdemeanor battery count
for the statute's purpose.
MS. SAHARSKY: That's exactly right, Justice
Ginsburg. All of the discussion of this in Congress
said we need to have a zero tolerance towards people --
zero tolerance policy towards people who are -- have
proven that they are willing to commit violent acts
against family members; and we already have a statute
that prohibits felons from possessing firearms, but we
know that sometimes these domestic offenses get charged
as misdemeanors. And Senator Lautenberg specifically
said in the legislative record they are often charged as
offenses like assault and battery, and we need to get at
these offenses because these people should not have
firearms. They should not put their families in that
type of powder keg situation, and they -- we should not
be putting police in that type of situation, where
police who respond to a domestic disturbance call like
the 911 call in this case are put in a dangerous
situation with a person -- an emotionally charged
situation -- who would have a firearm.
One other point that I wanted to make with
respect to your question, Justice Scalia -- and this is
not with respect to how this case should be resolved,
but just as a practical matter -- that the VAWA 2005
amendments do require States, for a condition of their
grant funding, to have a judicial policy that gives
notice for offenses like assault and battery that a
person would not be able to possess a firearm.
And the reason that they are doing that is
not because, you know, as a constitutional matter we
think that they need to, but because they really --
Congress just really wants to keep firearms away from
people who have shown that they are willing to hurt
family members in this way.
Now, I talked a little bit in the beginning
of argument about how really every -- every indicia of
meaning in this case -- and we do look to -- to each of
those different interpretive tools before we would
invoke the rule of lenity -- points in favor of the
Government's construction. First of all, you've got the
text, and I think we've -- we've covered those
arguments. But just as a practical matter, this statute
would have an extremely limited effect if it didn't --
if it were interpreted as Respondent suggests.
The language with respect to Federal
misdemeanors would be superfluous because the way that
Federal offenses like domestic assaults on Army bases
are charged is under a general Federal assault statute.
There isn't one that's specific to domestic violence.
So Congress would have put this "misdemeanor under
Federal law" language in there, and it -- it would have
immediately had no effect either. You know, the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it seems there
is no Federal misdemeanor that covers this particular
type of assault, in other words?
MS. SAHARSKY: There is -- there is a
general Federal assault statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MS. SAHARSKY: But it doesn't have a
domestic relationship requirement, and that's the
problem. You know, we also look to the drafting history
just a bit, and I -- I think that, you know, every
indicia -- every indication in the drafting history,
both if you compare the first version of the bill with
the statute that was enacted and the discussion relating
to it, shows that this language "has as an element,"
which really only intended to get at how violent an
offense had to be, it -- it was never intended to get at
any kind of domestic relationship requirement. And, of
course, the -- the sponsor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think -- I think that
people are governed by the law that is passed, not by
the law that Congress intended to pass.
MS. SAHARSKY: That's exactly right, Justice
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, really, if a lawyer
reading this would not think that it applied, I don't
care what Congress intended. If -- if the law doesn't
say that, the person is not governed by it. You think a
person could be governed by it despite the fact that it
doesn't say that because Congress intended it?
MS. SAHARSKY: Of course not, Justice
Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course.
MS. SAHARSKY: We look to the text first,
but we also look to other indicia -- many of us also
look to other indicia of Congress's intent. And some of
those indicia include things like a comparison of the
drafting history and Senator Lautenberg's statement,
which is directly on point here, which says that
offenses like assault and battery would be covered.
This is a -- a powerful tool.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how does that
relate to the rule of lenity? I suppose, to get back to
Justice Kennedy's point, you're saying that the lawyer
would not only be obligated to read this, but in
advising his client would be obligated to go back and
read the drafting history and the legislative history.
Do we really use those types of materials to trump the
-- the rule of lenity?
MS. SAHARSKY: This Court has in -- in
multiple cases looked to the fact that the statute, for
example, would have such a narrow, limited purpose, in
addition to the statute's text, to say, you know, we
can't believe Congress would expect that purpose --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the lawyer
advising his client in the typical assault case is
supposed to know at the time that only 17 States had
this type of provision?
MS. SAHARSKY: I think it was well known at
the time that these offenses, even in the 17 States that
had the domestic relationship element, were commonly
prosecuted as assault and battery offenses. And this
Court has -- for example, let's consider the Taylor
case, where this Court was considering the example of
burglary and trying to define: Should we pick this
narrow, common-law definition of "burglary," or a more
expansive definition of "burglary"?
And, aside from looking at the legislative
history, there is a separate section of the Court's
opinion where you said: Look, if we took this narrow,
common law definition of "burglary," it would apply
basically nowhere and we just can't think that Congress
intended that.
And you didn't go right to the rule of
lenity there. You looked at, for example, how that
frustration of congressional purpose would occur and the
problem that that would cause.
If there are no further questions, I'd like
to reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Giatras.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF TROY N. GIATRAS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. GIATRAS: Mr. Chief Justice, may it
please the Court:
The fundamental flaw in the Government's
argument is that it describes a statute that Congress
considered but did not pass. In the statute's final
version Congress defined the "misdemeanor crime of
domestic violence" to require that the predicate offense
have as an element a domestic relationship between the
offender and the victim.
And the Government's reading ignores the
legislative compromise that led to the contested
language; and, if adopted by this Court, would rewrite
the statute and hand one side the legislative victory
that they were unable to achieve in Congress.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait. You say that
that was the compromise. I don't know that you have any
evidence to -- to show that that was an intentional --
an intentional alteration made in the House of
Representatives. Do you? I mean --
MR. GIATRAS: There is nothing that speaks
to the words in the House of Representatives in the
Congressional Record, Your Honor, but their inaction and
the lack of words speak very loudly. And it was -- from
March of 1996, when the legislation was introduced, and
then it went over to the House after passing
significantly in the Senate, it was stalled, and it was
stymied, and it did not move.
As a matter of fact, it had to at one time
be taken from a -- and put into the stalking bill and
then removed from the stalking bill and replaced back in
then to a postal bill, which was then modified into the
appropriations bill.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the other side says
that the reason that was the case was that they objected
to the fact that -- what was its language -- the -- the
old version did not say a "misdemeanor crime of domestic
violence." It was -- it was broader.
MR. GIATRAS: It certainly was broader, but
there was nothing -- and there was no one that spoke in
the House of Representatives on that matter. And there
was only one -- the principal author of the legislation,
the sponsor, spoke in the Senate. And it was not until
the eleventh hour on September 28th of 1996 that this
entire change was made.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought it was that the
use of force -- to make it clear is a misdemeanor -- had
to involve a use of force, and that wasn't clear before,
right?
MR. GIATRAS: The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where -- where is the
earlier version? Do we have the earlier version
anywhere --
MR. GIATRAS: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- in the materials in
front of us?
MR. GIATRAS: Appendix B, page 5a of the red
brief -- I'm sorry. It's page 4a of the red brief.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Thank you.
MR. GIATRAS: I apologize.
JUSTICE STEVENS: While we pause, can I just
ask you one question to make sure I understand the two
-- two different positions? Your view of the subsection
ii is that the meaning you attributed to it is -- would
be exactly the same if you left out the word
"committed"? In other words, it seems to me under your
view the word -- either the word "committed" or the
words "committed by" is superfluous?
MR. GIATRAS: No. That is part of the
element -- the one element that is required.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Why would you need that in
there if the statute means -- if the element is the use
of force by a family member? Why do you have to put in
another verb, "committed"?
MR. GIATRAS: Well, because that's who --
that's who it would -- that's who it would address to.
And that would be with respect to -- when you look at
the definition that's set forth, it was to change from
the original -- original --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, I'm not interested
in changes. I'm just interested in the text before us.
And it seems to me that your reading of the statute is
exactly what the statute would say if it did not include
the word "committed."
MR. GIATRAS: I -- I don't know, Justice. I
don't believe so, though.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I agree with
Justice Stevens. Read it without the word "committed."
It not only has the same effect, but it's more natural,
because it's "use of force by a current or former
spouse," as opposed to "use of force committed by."
MR. GIATRAS: It would still include -- it
would still include both attributes into the one element
even if the word "committed" were removed from double
ii, yes. I'm -- I'm sorry about that.
JUSTICE BREYER: As I read this old one --
as I read the first one, Senator Lautenberg put in the
language, and his language in the first one was to say
I'll tell you a group of people who shouldn't have guns.
The people who commit a crime of domestic violence.
Now what's that? In the statute he says it
is a misdemeanor crime of violence committed by a person
in a family relation with the victim.
Then he says after, I changed that language
a little. I'll tell you why. Because somebody told me
misdemeanor crime of violence is too broad. It could
include cutting up a credit card. So I'll define it
more specifically.
And he defines if more specifically to say
that it is a crime that has as an element the use or
attempted use of physical force or threatening people
with a weapon. End of the matter.
They substitute those words and they did
another thing the drafter as he breaks out the thing it
says: It is a crime that is a misdemeanor and, you see,
and that's where the problem is, because if you put in a
"that," then you have to have an "is." So he left out
the "is." Okay.
So I say what did Senator Lautenberg want
with these words? I see. How did he change it? I see.
I can't find a word that supports the reason
that you have. Now, maybe they are there. That's what
you'll tell me.
And then I say it's the fine language
consistent with what he wanted. It requires putting in
an "is." I don't find that too awful. Okay. That's
your argument against you. What is it? Your argument
to rebut that.
MR. GIATRAS: The legislation that the
Senator introduced was not the legislation that was
passed by Congress. And, Justice Breyer, it is very
clear from the statutory and legislative history in this
case from -- you just take up through September 28th of
1996, that the sponsor of the legislation decries with
respect to the staunch opposition that was in the House,
and the fact that his bill was going nowhere. This may
have been his intended purpose with respect to what was
introduced, but it was then the will of Congress with
changing --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the conclusion.
You're reaching that conclusion. What I need from you
is something that would tell me, no, Congress didn't
just want to clarify in the way Lautenberg said. What
they wanted to do was, in fact, restrict the scope of
this so it only applied in 17 states. Okay. I'm open
to that argument. It could be a good argument. Just
point me to the things that suggest that that is what
Congress wanted to do, rather than by what Senator
Lautenberg said.
MR. GIATRAS: By take -- by taking a look at
the final passed legislation.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I've got the words. If
the best you can do is point me to the words of the
statute, I'll take that into account. I'm asking the
question to see if there is anything at all more?
MR. GIATRAS: Other than the fact that the
structure of the statute also changed, and the structure
of the statute changed --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't want the text. I
want something for my purposes.
MR. GIATRAS: What we have --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MR. GIATRAS: And what is problematic here,
Justice, is that the legislative history does not speak
on this particular matter. It is silent on this.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did this structure come
from Senator Lautenberg?
MR. GIATRAS: No, it did not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where did it come from?
MR. GIATRAS: It is -- it has to be presumed
that it came from -- we don't know exactly where, but it
came out of the House, and the House of Representatives
on September 28th --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It came out of the House
version. The House version had this which was different
from the Senate version that Lautenberg was responsible
for?
MR. GIATRAS: No. This was a version that
was passed in the Senate as the "as introduced"
language. It then went and it was sat -- it sat in the
House of Representatives for a long period of time.
It was not until September 28th, prior --
right prior to the time that the budget bill had to have
been sent back to -- to the Senate to be voted on and
then proved by the President to continue the government
to run. And this bill was changed then in the House of
Representatives on -- at the 11th hour --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So this language came from
the House?
MR. GIATRAS: Yes, it did.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me, Senator
Lautenberg would not have been the drafter of this
language.
MR. GIATRAS: The -- Senator Lautenberg does
not disagree that he came to an agreement on this
language.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm sorry. Are you saying
that Senator Lautenberg did not change the words
"misdemeanor crime of violence" to the words "use of
physical force" or "threatened use of deadly weapon"?
That's what he got up on the floor of the Senate and
said that he wanted to change.
MR. GIATRAS: Justice, as this Court has
articulated in Allapattah, that sometimes there can be a
strategic manipulation to secure results.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not -- we're in -- the
question specifically is where did the words come from?
I thought that the words came from Senator Lautenberg.
The reason I thought that is because he got up on the
floor of the Senate and said that's what he did.
Now, if you're telling me they came from a
different place, what is there in anywhere? I'm open to
hearing it, but I couldn't find anything that said they
had come from a different place.
MR. GIATRAS: They would have come from the
House of Representatives.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you mean would
have? Did it language come over to the Senate from the
House or not?
MR. GIATRAS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: So the -- the -- the
language on physical force came from the House? That's
what you're saying? I'm just trying to be clear.
MR. GIATRAS: Threatened use of --
JUSTICE BREYER: It might have. I'm not
criticizing. I want to know.
MR. GIATRAS: The use or attempted use of
physical force or the threatened use of a deadly weapon
language, including the words "misdemeanor crime of
domestic violence" came over from the House.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This very form that was
ultimately enacted was the form that came over from the
House to the Senate?
MR. GIATRAS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Making progress. And
you're saying that in the House there were some people
who didn't want it to extend to beyond 17 States?
MR. GIATRAS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: And how do we know that?
MR. GIATRAS: Well, by the mere fact that
they -- we don't have them speaking to it, because there
was no actual congressional record of them speaking to
it or someone taking to the floor in the House of
Representatives. It's absolutely silent.
We have to, instead, go back to what Senator
Lautenberg was saying on the floor of the Senate during
this period of time, where he made very clear that what
was occurring to his bill that it was dying, that it was
being killed and it was being gutted in September of --
early to late September of 1996, the author says that
his bill is being gutted and it's dying, and that there
are significant staunch opposition from certain forces
in order to limit the bill.
JUSTICE ALITO: Other than a desire to
weaken this bill as much as possible, can you think of
any reason why Congress would have drawn the distinction
that you're drawing between States that have specific
statutes relating to domestic violence misdemeanor
statutes and those that don't?
MR. GIATRAS: I don't think we can speak why
certain States did or did not or why Congress would only
want there to be 17. But, certainly, there is
nothing -- and there is nothing in the legislative
history to express other than the fact that it was the
effect of a judicial -- of a legislative compromise.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What sense would it make
for Congress to say take two abusers? The conduct is
identical. And in state A there is one consequence to
bar on the possession of guns, and state B there isn't
for the identical conduct, why would Congress want these
two different results?
MR. GIATRAS: It was -- the language that
was ultimately agreed upon by the entire Congress, Your
Honor, was as a result of a compromise. And -- that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose it gives greater
assurance of what exactly the prior conviction was. If
there is just a prior conviction of misdemeanor
violence, you have to go back, I suppose, and look at
the conviction, look at the testimony to find out
whether indeed it was domestic violence. It was just a
general -- general assault statute. You don't know it
was committed in the home or not.
Whereas if you're -- if you're convicted of
the crime, the misdemeanor of violence against a spouse
or a relative like this, you know exactly what the --
what the crime is?
MR. GIATRAS: You will know that.
Certainly. And by even the -- the text of the statute,
it changes from a crime of violence to the definition of
misdemeanor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that -- that
when someone purchases a firearm, they have to affirm,
check a box, I have been convicted of a crime of
domestic violence. Is that how it reads? And that goes
to, you know, to the Federal Government and they check
the records of convictions.
How -- how would your client check that? I
have been -- I have been convicted of a crime of
domestic violence, if he had been convicted of assault
and the assault happened to be domestic assault would --
would he be perjuring himself if he said no?
MR. GIATRAS: There are -- there are cases
that are prosecuted in that manner where also lying on
the form gives charge -- gives rise to a Federal
offense. And the ATF regulation is -- reads the statute
slightly -- reads the statute -- it reads the statute
significantly different and puts in parentheticals such
as assault and/or battery and also puts in
parentheticals how -- they use the word "was committed"
in a -- in a third subparagraph.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does -- does it make clear
whether the offense has to be domestic -- a domestic
violence offense or whether an ordinary assault offense
will qualify if as a matter of fact it was domestic?
MR. GIATRAS: Well, it -- it -- the ATF
regulation denotes that you should even put it down if
it's going to be an assault and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand what
you've said.
MR. GIATRAS: The ATF regulation is in
appendix F to your red brief, page 12 A.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, and it's drafted the
way the statute should have been drafted. Isn't that
interesting.
In other words, it breaks out the "was
committed by a current or former spouse" and makes that
a separate provision, rather than a part of the element
"use of attempted force against a family member."
MR. GIATRAS: That is correct, Your Honor,
but that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's drafted the way
it should have been if your friends are correct.
MR. GIATRAS: That -- it's drafted the
way -- it's drafted the way the original sponsor of the
legislation would have wanted it to pass Congress, Your
Honor -- or Chief Justice.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The -- the -- the statute
uses the word element in the term singular. It seems to
me that although this statute is a mess anyway --
(Laughter).
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- that that -- that that
doesn't particularly help you. Elements usually refer
to each component of the actus reus -- you entered a
dwelling with a weapon. You would say "elements" for
that, wouldn't you?
And it seems to me under your interpretation
the statute should say "elements."
MR. GIATRAS: Well, I think that the -- the
best advice is to take that of judge Sentelle's
dissenting opinion in Barnes where element or elements
is insignificant, the plural of it. Instead it's what
is the element as opposed to how many elements there
are.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I mean when we are
gasping for straws I'm not sure anything is
insignificant.
MR. GIATRAS: Well -- and in this particular
matter, when in seeking -- if after seizing everything
from which the aid can or may be derived, I think we can
only guess as to Congress's intent.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But suppose this statute,
the one that was enacted, had the word "if" before
"committed." Would that then convey the meaning that
the Government is urging? Has as an element use of
force, comma, "if" committed.
MR. GIATRAS: Well, that may make it
slightly even more vague, Justice, because then it's
whether or not it's even part or parcel or whether it is
or isn't part of it. Here at least what they --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: "If committed" would
break from "use of force." The element is the use of
force, but then the crime would have to have been
committed by a current or former spouse; so wouldn't an
"if" separate what is the element, that is, use of
force?
MR. GIATRAS: I don't believe that to
use the word "if" changes our position, Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, sure it would. Just
as an "is" --
MR. GIATRAS: Well, "was," if --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, if you want to add
words you can add "if," you can add "as is," you could
rewrite the statute a lot of ways.
MR. GIATRAS: Well -- and one way is that
this statute denotes that there is a part (c), of which
there is no part (c). This statute also lacks -- even
though it's very insignificant in and of itself, by
itself -- it lacks a period at the very end of double i.
Again, no one particular point can be --
would say that we would allow that punctuation to
overcome the purpose, or overcome the text, but when
taken as a whole, when you have the text and an
inartfully drafted statute that references sections that
don't exist, that has grammatical errors in it and that
leaves things up to the reader to have to decide whether
something is involved or not involved; and you also then
have a lack of sufficient congressional record, then I
believe that it certainly is favored to look at the rule
of lenity in this case. I do want to also --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you really think there is
a notice problem here? If you had been advising
Mr. Hayes after he was convicted of this misdemeanor,
and you read this, would you say well, you know, you're
-- it's a good thing that you were convicted of this in
West Virginia, where there isn't a specific statute
targeting domestic violence, because it doesn't cover
you. If you had been convicted in another State under a
specific domestic violence statute then you wouldn't be
able to possess firearms but you're home free because of
the nature of the statute in your State?
MR. GIATRAS: I believe it would have
been -- in 1993, '94 time period, it would have been
very difficult -- it would have been, it should have
been very easy to -- to advise Mr. Hayes with respect to
that issue. Certainly. That he would not have lost his
rights at that point.
Thereafter when Congress passed this
statute, then I believe that -- does it become a little
murky? It probably does become a little murky. After
you have the hindsight of being able to one, take a look
at the legislative record if that's the necessary,
and/or consider that, and/or if you take a look at the
ATF regulation, the only problem is the ATF regulation
takes it -- takes us back in time to what they would
have -- what would have been or what they would have
liked it to have been as opposed to what was actually
legislated.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if -- counsel
advising Mr. Hayes surely would have looked at what was
the uniform position in all the circuits. All the
circuits that had this question before the floor read it
the way the Government is urging. So counsel I think
would have been highly irresponsible to advise Mr. Hayes
that he would be home free, simply because his own State
didn't have a separate domestic violence statute.
MR. GIATRAS: And Justice Ginsburg, the only
reason I say that in this particular case, is because
Mr. Hayes was in 1993 -- and was pled in 1994, which was
prior to enactment of this statute and/or any of the
circuit court opinions. So that was my -- that was the
reason for my answer that in Mr. Hayes' case it would
have been very simple and no one would have looked to
those issues because those didn't exist.
To bring to the -- to answer one of the
questions from the Chief Justice with respect to what
States may have had these laws in 1996, on page 24 of
the Government's merits brief, the footnote number 9
denotes -- footnote number 9 denotes the States, which
include Alabama, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Maine,
North Carolina and the like. Kansas, and Mississippi.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Is that
the right list? That's -- that's statutes passed after
1996.
MR. GIATRAS: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I looked at the
amicus brief filed by the National Network, page 18
footnote 53, and I see California, Illinois, Michigan,
Ohio. Which is the right list?
MR. GIATRAS: And that is the right list,
Chief Justice, and that includes West Virginia in the
1996, that was passed. And that is there on footnote
number 53, just so it's correct.
Our reading of the statute is more
reasonable than the Government's. Certainly with
respect to the variances of the grammatical errors and
the grammatical leaps that the Government must take in
order to substantiate its reading of the statute, we
believe that ours is more reasonable.
Likewise, the legislative history in this
particular case is very weak, and if this Court even
considers it, then I think you can take a look with
respect to the text, the structure, the purpose and the
history and determine --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me be sure I
understand the legislative history correctly in a broad
sense. The text of the bill as originally introduced in
the Senate favors the Government. Is that correct?
MR. GIATRAS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And there was a change
made in the House in the form of an amendment to that
bill? Or was it a separate bill introduced in the
House?
MR. GIATRAS: It was not a separate bill.
There was -- there no committee -- there was no
committee substitute, there was no committee hearings.
It just --
JUSTICE STEVENS: They enacted a different
text.
MR. GIATRAS: Yes, they did.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And then -- without
explanation. And then the bill went back to the Senate.
As I understand it, it was approved in the form enacted
by the House without -- with only that one comment.
MR. GIATRAS: That is with only -- yes. And
that -- and that comment did not speak -- the comment of
the sponsor did not speak with respect to the domestic
violence, the domestic relationships element.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But he did say that he
agreed to the change.
MR. GIATRAS: He did say that he agreed with
the change, and that he also said, though, that the he
-- that the bill, the new bill made it more precise and
broader. Which was a -- which was a quote from the
sponsor.
If there are no further questions --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me be sure. But under
your view, it actually made it narrower?
MR. GIATRAS: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
MR. GIATRAS: If there are no further
questions, Respondent asks that the Court affirm the
judgment of the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Under anybody's
view, it made it narrow. Under Lautenberg's view, it
made it narrow.
MR. GIATRAS: Other than he said the words
that it made it more precise and broader.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How did it make it broader?
I mean, it used to cover cutting -- cutting a credit
card. Now, it no longer does.
MR. GIATRAS: The text of the statute as
enacted makes it more narrow.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course it does.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. GIATRAS: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Saharsky, six
minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. SAHARSKY: Thank you. In this case, the
Court has a choice between either reading the statute in
a way that uses the words very unnaturally and unusually
-- "committed by" to modify "use" and "element" --
treating a singular as plural, and the word "committed"
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if I could
stop you there. The very first sentence in the United
States Code, 1 U.S.C. section 1, says the singular
includes the plural.
MS. SAHARSKY: Right, and this Court has
said that you do that only when two things are true:
When it makes sense in context, and we think it doesn't
because of the word "committed," which Respondent wants
to read right out of the statute, and also because you
do it when it's necessary to fulfill the evident
purposes of the statute. And here, for the reasons we
explained, treating the singular as plural would be
contrary to the purposes of the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know, but
basically what you're saying is we don't follow 1 U.S.C.
section 1 because our reading is correct. If they said,
well, it doesn't -- you know, in context it doesn't
fulfill the purposes and therefore we read "element" as
singular only rather than according to section 1 of the
United States Code.
MS. SAHARSKY: It's because the element --
the singular "element" has other indicia meaning it
involves the word "committed" and then also this -- the
fact that Congress's objective would be stymied if you
took Respondent's reading.
So you've got a choice between just using
the words unnaturally -- "committed by," taking
"committed" and just making it superfluous, as in
Respondent's view, or treating the singular "element" as
plural, or you can give, as the Government is
suggesting, a natural and logical reading that you're
talking about an offense of this certain violent
character committed by these certain people. And, yes,
that involves looking slightly past Romanette (i) and
(ii) structure to look at this being two clauses that
both modify the word "offense." You --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You have to add words. It
is unavoidable. To come to your reading, you must add
words to the statute. To adopt the reading of the other
side on the other hand, you need not add a single word.
You just have to resign yourself to the -- to the usage
that is unusual but not unheard of, that a particular
use was committed. And the other side gives a number of
examples, as does the brief by -- by linguists, a number
of examples where that appears.
So it's an unusual usage but not an unheard
of usage. They don't have to add a single word or a
single hard break in the text. You have to, to get to
your construction.
MS. SAHARSKY: With respect, Justice Scalia,
we don't agree with that, and I'll give you two
illustrations that hopefully would help establish that
point: One, if you just read this all as a sentence
without respect to the Romanettes (i) and (ii), you have
an offense that is as a misdemeanor and has, as an
element, committed by a certain group of persons. That
reads as a sentence. There is an offense of a certain
type committed by a certain group of persons.
JUSTICE BREYER: For that, you'd have to
assume that the GS-12 who drafted this, or whoever the
equivalent was in the Senate, put the "that" in the
wrong place. If he had put the "that" after the (i)
when he broke it down, it would all read as a sentence.
The "that" would be for the first part, and you'd say
"felony committed" for the part that interests us. Does
that work?
MS. SAHARSKY: I think it would read better
that way. I think that it would --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You'd would have to put a
"that" --
MS. SAHARSKY: It would read --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You'd have to put a "that"
at the beginning of (ii) as well, wouldn't you?
MS. SAHARSKY: Again, I think if you just --
I don't think you need to. I think you can just read
through this all as one sentence. And we looked at that
previous -- while were you talking with Respondent's
counsel, you looked at that previous version of the bill
Congress considered, and it just had it all as one
sentence. It said "an offense of this certain character
committed by this certain group of persons." And that
same structure is in the statute as enacted, and that
shows that the "committed by" refers back to "offense."
And to get back to the point I opened with,
the way that you choose between the two constructions in
this case is to look at what Congress would achieve
under Respondent's construction of the statute, which is
a statute that applies only in 17 States, not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And, again, not to
beat a dead horse, but it's footnote 8 of your brief on
page 23 that lists the 17 States. They include
California, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, Virginia. That
wouldn't be a useless act by Congress to cover everybody
in those States.
MS. SAHARSKY: No, but it wouldn't be
consistent with what Congress was intending, which is to
solve the nationwide problem that every person who
proved that they were willing to hurt their family
members should not be able to possess a firearm, whether
they're a felon or whether they were convicted of a
misdemeanor. And that was the problem that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know, but you
point was this doesn't do any good because it's only 17
States. Those are -- there are a lot of people in those
States.
MS. SAHARSKY: Right, but some persons in
those States who commit the same types of offenses, as
Justice Ginsburg pointed out -- you know, they commit
the same violent acts against family members. Some of
them would be prosecuted under the regular -- under a
specific domestic violence statute, but some would be
prosecuted under regular assault and battery statutes.
And it doesn't make any sense, in those same States, to
treat some people as being subject to the possession ban
and some people as not being subject to that possession
ban.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It makes it easier to
identify it. You don't have to go back and look to see
whether this particular assault conviction was an
assault on a family member or not. It's there on the
face of the indictment. Pretty important, it seems to
me.
MS. SAHARSKY: With respect, Justice Scalia,
you can't just tell from the face of the State
indictment whether you would not be able to possess a
firearm under Federal law, because the domestic
relationship covered by the State offenses, it is a
broader universe in each of those 17 States. More
domestic relationships are covered than are covered by
the Federal statute. So you could have been convicted
in one of those 17 States of a specific domestic
violence offense, and still that would not necessarily
be the case that you couldn't possess a firearm under
Federal law, because they cover, for example, dating
relationships.
I understand that the notice concerns you've
raised but just to get back to one other point that came
up with Respondent's counsel, when a person wants to buy
a firearm, he fills out this particular form, Form 4473,
and that form specifically says on that offenses like
assault and battery are covered. The ATF regulation
that has been in place since this statute was enacted
says that those -- that offenses such as assault and
battery are covered. In fact, all the courts of appeals
up until recently, nine of them had this settled
understanding. Aside from the ATF having it, Congress
relied upon it. And we think that it makes sense.
You should reverse the judgment below.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:50 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
51:13 42:3 Army 22:17 ban 52:3,5 brief 11:5 28:11
Allapattah 34:7 articulated 34:7bar 36:22 28:11 38:24
53:16 alteration 26:22 53:10 bases 22:17 49:8 51:4
45:8 14:6 19:11,14 battery 6:18 27:17 46:7,21
amicus 44:9 24:11 25:2,8 25:8 38:11 budget 14:15
53:5,7 25:12,13,17
41:9
49:1 17:11 39:17 18:16,16 49:24behalf 1:17,18 c 2:1 3:1 41:13
apologize 28:13 assurance 37:4 2:4,6,9 3:7 41:14
16:20 53:8 43:1,1 53:5,10believe 7:1 10:9 15:12,13 44:10
1:14 5:4 16:2 30:14 29:14 41:4 call 20:6 21:12
49:3 38:24 attributed 28:17better 50:6 care 23:23
23:22 31:23 awful 31:4 31:14 33:11,14 19:10,19 20:8
42:4 43:7 51:2 a.m 1:13 3:2 45:9,9,11,19 25:2,10 27:13
13:8 14:13 bit 22:5 23:7 43:15,19 44:23
25:17 B body 20:11 47:9 50:25
49:15 27:11 28:10 36:22 break 8:20 cases 19:17
argument 1:12 14:12 24:14,17 breaks 30:17 category 18:21
11:10 22:6 35:23 37:6 Breyer 29:24 caution 13:9
8:7,8 classic 14:11 41:1 47:12,13 39:13 42:20 39:7,10 44:15
48:21 clause 5:15 9:10 47:22 48:12,16 50:18,25 51:7 45:5 48:5
49:20,21 10:9 12:10 48:17,22 49:7 51:10 53:10 correctly 45:3
50:19,20 clauses 8:23 49:20,22 50:4 congressional counsel 7:13
27:17 clear 10:13,13 committee 35:20 41:25 43:6,10 47:3
37:16 14:2,19 16:19 45:12,13,13 Congress's 3:14 50:17 53:2,13
44:17 18:23,24 27:25 committing 9:20 24:7 40:13 count 20:20
29:6 35:1,25 38:14 25:17 consequence 15:20 23:15
34:1,5 clearer 16:17 commonly 25:7 36:21 24:2,4 47:2
46:3,5 client 24:17 25:2 common-law consider 25:9 court 1:1,12 3:9
32:10,11 clients 13:19 compare 23:9 considered 5:1 24:21 25:9,10
closed 16:1 comparison 5:22 26:9 26:6,16 34:6
41:5 come 4:15 5:8 component considering 46:15 47:10,19
48:22 34:17,18,21 4:13,18 5:11 consistent 31:3 courts 3:15 53:8
49:2 26:15,20 36:18 51:10 Court's 25:15
21:4 11:2 40:18 11:22,23 construction 52:23
22:18 comment 45:21 concepts 11:18 22:10 49:13 covered 14:20
51:21,22 concerns 13:12 contested 26:15 covers 4:15
9:2,4 committed 3:21 conclusion 47:21 48:6 credit 30:10
12:1,20 3:22 5:15,23 31:18,19 continue 33:13 46:23
16:8 5:24 6:1 7:19 condition 21:20 contrary 3:13 crime 3:11 5:1
23:3 7:24 8:3,8,14 conduct 17:6,10 48:2 26:10 27:15
25:1 8:15,21,22 9:9 17:12 36:20,23 control 4:10 30:3,5,9,13,18
29:15 9:9,16,17 10:2 Congress 4:6,11 convey 40:16 34:2 35:7
43:23 10:2,7,12,19 6:2,8,12,13,16 convicted 14:7 37:12,14,17,21
47:3 11:3,7,11 12:2 6:21 7:3,7 12:8 17:23 37:11,21 38:1 40:25
48:3 12:5,6,11,11 12:13,16 16:9 38:1,2 42:5,7 crimes 14:13
53:13 15:19 16:1,4 16:18,24,24 42:10 51:14 criminal 13:16
19:18 28:19,20 23:18,23 24:1 conviction 3:10 criticizing 35:4
difficult 42:16 D.C 1:8,16 53:6 F 38:24
discussion 5:21 28:5 entered 39:21 27:7,14 31:14
dissenting 40:3 easier 52:6 37:1 35:18 36:17
disturbance EDWARD 1:6 49:25 53:8
35:6 diverse 11:18 17:2 22:13,22 44:18 families 21:9
16:13 17:10 8:15 9:16 2:5,8 22:4 29:1 30:6
7:4,5,8 12:14 3:19 4:20 5:4 evidence 26:21 favored 42:1
15:2 16:25 9:9 10:18 11:1 exactly 20:22 Federal 4:4 7:11
29:6 23:14 25:7 23:11 25:7 example 8:10 22:24 23:2
26:11,12 27:15 26:12 28:23,23 24:23 25:9,10 37:23 38:7
44:1,1 36:11 37:8,22 30:13 39:5,16 examples 9:22 fellow 17:13
38:17 42:9,11 41:2 45:25 Excuse 33:19 felonies 20:18
51:25 52:15,18 48:11,18 49:20 exempt 7:5 felony 18:18
drafted 38:25 40:3,5 expect 16:24 fills 53:3
11:23 drafting 4:25 enacted 4:2 5:14 express 36:17 firearm 18:1,4
15:2 23:6,8 24:9,18 5:25 12:16 extend 35:15 18:13,17 21:15
28:16 drawing 36:10 14:17 19:8 extremely 12:17 21:23 37:20
34:15,17 drawn 36:9 23:10 35:10 22:13 51:13 52:15,22
38:10 dwelling 39:22 40:15 45:15,20 53:3
dying 36:1,4 47:1 50:21 F firearms 6:13
18:7 26:7 good 13:19 42:5,17 43:7 ignoring 11:2
21:3,9 funding 21:21 31:24 42:7 43:11,16,19 ii 5:20 8:12,20
42:12 further 25:24 51:17 hear 3:3 8:25 9:15,15
8:10,16 23:24,25 hearing 34:16 48:24 49:18
19:7 G government 4:4 hearings 45:13 50:12
23:9 G 3:1 33:13 37:23 help 39:20 49:16 iii 16:1,20 19:1,1
29:25 gasping 40:8 40:17 43:10 highly 43:11 illegal 13:13
47:16 general 1:16 44:19 45:5 hindsight 42:23 Illinois 44:10
19:11,15 22:18 48:19 history 4:25 51:6
43:9 26:2,3,5,24 26:7,14 43:25 36:17 44:22 13:20 22:22
29:3,13,20 8:24 41:22 home 17:16 imposes 17:11
32:16,21,23 grammatically 43:12 inartfully 41:21
33:6,18,22 7:21 Honor 7:23 8:19 incentive 6:16
11:11 35:2,5,12,16 14:22 14:1,16 19:7 incidentally
27:25 35:18 36:13,25 grant 21:21 27:1 35:12,16 13:20
29:1,18 37:15 38:5,18 great 13:8 37:2 39:7,14 include 24:8
30:14 38:23 39:7,11 greater 37:3 45:6 29:11,20,21
35:6 40:1,10,19 grievous 12:25 hope 17:20 30:10 44:2
40:18,24 41:4,8,12 group 30:2 hopefully 49:16 51:5
41:3 42:14 43:14 49:20,22 50:20 horse 51:4 included 20:19
45:8,20 46:4,12,14,20 guilty 13:24 house 13:20 including 35:7
46:25 47:4 19:2 26:22,25 27:4 increased 17:9
11:12 20:15,23 27:24 13:22 17:13,14 32:25,25 33:2 indicia 13:4 22:6
29:18 36:19 40:14,23 guns 13:20 30:2 33:3,9,14,17 23:8 24:6,7,8
41:1 43:6,14 51:22 36:22 34:19,22,25 48:11
going 6:10 7:19 10:19,20 16:21 36:23 23:12,13,18,23
40:13 18:8,10,15,23 kneecapping 14:3 19:18 logical 10:10
20:12,15,22 know 4:16,22,23 23:23 25:17 long 33:9
23:3,16,19,21 14:3 15:11,14 laws 43:24 look 4:24 9:7
39:24 28:8,12,14,24 25:3 26:20 leaps 44:19 29:5 32:3 37:6
29:24 31:9,18 35:4,17 37:9 leaves 41:23 42:25 44:24
32:19,22 33:2 42:6 48:3,6 left 28:18 30:20 52:7
27:3 34:6,9,20,24 knowledge legislated 43:5 25:21 43:7,20
33:7 35:3,9,13,17 19:17 legislation 15:17 44:8 50:15,17
36:7,19 37:3 known 25:5 27:3,20 31:7,8 looking 8:24,25
41:5,6,9 42:3 lack 9:18 27:2 26:15,17 31:10 51:18
44:4,8,13 45:2 lacks 41:14,16 42:24 44:22 lying 38:6
46:17,22 47:2 9:22 10:7,13 13:7,10 14:9 main 13:12
51:3 26:16 27:14 25:21 42:2 35:13 48:17
K late 36:3 limit 36:6 manipulation
keep 7:19 22:2 39:18 17:2 22:13 manner 38:6
4:5,13,22 KENNEDY 15:16 21:5 line 8:11 match 14:24
6:15 13:6,14 14:5,8 29:25 30:22 linguists 11:5 materials 24:19
8:1,9 9:2 39:15,19 40:7 31:21 32:2,20 49:8 28:8
10:5,15 Kennedy's 17:4 33:4,20,22 list 15:12 44:5 matter 1:11 8:24
12:1,20 24:15 34:1,11 35:24 44:11,12 21:19,25 22:12
14:5,8 kicked 20:10,11 Lautenberg's lists 51:5 27:7,19 30:15
16:7 killed 36:2 24:9 46:18 little 9:3 19:1,1 32:18 38:17
53:16 modifies 3:22 North 44:3 24:11 25:6,8 parsing 9:18
15:24 modify 8:23 13:25 14:10,11 53:4,7 28:22 39:5
20:3,7 47:12 48:25 14:14 18:6 oh 9:3 11:25 40:21,22 41:13
34:20 Monday 1:9 19:20 21:22 38:25 41:14 50:3,4
41:9 move 27:6 42:4 52:25 Ohio 44:11 51:6 particular 20:8
multiple 24:22 noticing 15:15 okay 8:9 11:25 22:24 32:18
28:17 number 15:1,5 32:15 43:15 44:23
48:11 N 19:9 43:25 old 27:15 29:24 49:6 52:8 53:3
29:1 39:6 narrow 24:23 open 31:23 pass 23:18 26:9
25:12,16 46:18 O 34:15 39:13
22:4 narrower 46:11 objected 27:13 opinion 25:16 31:9 32:4 33:7
National 44:9 objection 7:14 40:3 42:20 44:5,14
16:25 51:11 obligated 24:16 opposed 18:18 passing 27:4
3:22 12:11 odd 15:20 31:13 36:5 9:25 13:21
7:11 8:22 necessarily offense 3:17,23 ordinary 38:16 30:14 35:14
10:18 52:21 3:24 4:21 5:16 original 5:13,22 48:22 51:18
18:10,11 necessary 42:24 5:21,23,23,25 29:7,7 39:12 52:3,4
19:5 47:24 6:3 7:18,24 8:2 originally 45:4 period 33:9
need 20:24 21:7 8:6,6,7,13,15 overcome 41:19 35:25 41:16
22:20,24 22:1 28:24 8:21,24 9:8,10 41:19 42:15
27:15,25 31:19 49:4 10:1,2,8 11:19 owning 18:1,17 perjuring 38:4
34:2 50:14 11:21 12:12,15 person 3:23 5:23
36:11 needed 4:19 14:25 17:24 P 5:24 6:1 7:25
needs 12:25 18:6,11,25 P 3:1 10:2 14:4
49:19 negotiated 19:3,19,19,23 page 2:2 28:10 17:10 18:5
13:16 20:6,8 23:13 28:11 38:24 19:16,18 21:14
20:17 never 9:4 13:22 38:16,16 48:21 51:5 30:5 51:11
22:16 13:22 23:13 48:25 49:19,21 parcel 40:21 53:2
27:10 nine 3:15 53:9 21:22 22:17 parse 9:17 47:8
11:11 22:12 20:21 24:23,25 11:15 12:18 36:11
34:3,25 practicing 13:15 25:22 31:15 15:18,23 16:7 relation 30:6
precise 46:6,21 41:19 44:25 23:22 26:14 relations 19:12
50:1 President 33:13 48:2,7 48:20 49:2,3 6:5 14:18
presumed 6:10 put 6:2 9:16 readings 12:21 19:13 23:5,14
48:1 50:16,17 putting 21:11 reason 13:9 18:3 relied 53:11
primarily 3:12 31:3 21:24 27:13 remainder
21:16 prior 33:10,11 Q 36:9 43:15,19 removed 27:9
31:25 37:4,5 43:17 qualify 9:12 reasonable 29:22
41:17 private 13:16 38:17 44:17,21 replaced 27:9
49:17 probably 42:22 question 6:7 reasonably Representatives
51:17 problem 6:13 16:8 21:17 16:23 26:23,25 27:19
7:8,16 12:14 28:15 32:8 reasons 3:12 32:25 33:9,15
30:19 42:4 43:23 46:9,15 REBUTTAL 12:22 21:20
32:16 35:20 41:25 28:23
profession 13:25 R 3:1 records 37:24 14:19 16:3,4
prohibits 21:3 RANDY 1:6 38:24 requirements
42:12 51:24 52:1 read 3:13 8:2 50:22 reserve 25:25
52:14,22 proved 33:13 10:22 13:3 reflects 20:9 resign 49:5
52:3,4 providing 13:12 29:24,25 42:6 regulated 19:21 respect 4:19,20
41:18 reader 41:23 relate 24:14 31:13,15 42:17
26:1 29:15 27:12 30:4,7 Senator 15:15 43:20
2:6 4:5 51:3,16 53:13 Scalia 4:5,13,22 29:25 30:22 49:12
20:9 Roman 9:3 5:6,10 9:13 31:8 32:1,20 singular 3:18
26:4 Romanette 5:19 10:5,15 17:3 33:19,22 34:1 11:1,9,13,24
47:22 5:20 8:20,25 17:18,22,25 34:11 35:23 39:16 47:13,17
11:6 48:23 19:22 20:1,5 36:19 45:4 situation 7:4
4:1 10:24 49:18 23:16,21 24:3 53:11 21:14,15
15:17 routinely 19:14 24:4 26:19 sent 33:12 six 47:5
19:19 rule 12:23,24 27:12 28:4,8 Sentelle's 40:2 skip 8:10
50:16 13:7,8,10 14:5 28:12 32:19,22 sentence 9:1,8 slightly 38:9
53:2 14:9,9 17:4,5,8 33:2,16,19 10:22 16:14 40:20 48:23
25:20 42:1 37:3,19 38:14 49:17,21 50:2 19:9
2:3,8 3:5,6,8 scope 31:22 separates 11:2 29:23 33:25
16:21 5:13 6:20 7:22 second 3:13 5:3 27:22 31:11 sort 7:15
13:11 14:1,6 section 11:3,3 17:24 19:18,22 45:23,24
16:6,12,18 47:17 48:5,8 set 29:6 35:20
18:8 19:6,25 20:3,7 secure 34:8 26:21 special 6:17
23:3 20:22 23:1,4 see 11:23,25 shown 22:3 specific 18:21
25:20 23:19 24:2,5 13:25 30:18,23 shows 23:11 22:19 36:10
33:11 24:21 25:5 30:23 32:8 50:22 42:8,11 51:25
47:5,7,9,19 44:10 52:7 side 9:23 11:10 52:20
51:20 48:10 49:14 seeking 40:11 26:17 27:12 specifically
8:1,9 9:2 saying 24:15 Senate 27:5,21 significantly spending 6:22
11:8 12:1 33:25 35:1,14 33:4,7,12 34:4 27:5 38:10 spoke 27:18,21
15:4,9 35:24 48:4 34:13,21 35:11 silent 32:18 spoken 9:25
23:3 says 4:5 8:2 35:24 45:5,19 35:22 sponsor 15:16
25:1 12:24 24:10 49:25 simple 13:17 23:15 27:21
39:12 47:10,23,25 suggest 7:2 telling 34:14 threatening
46:8 49:3 50:21 10:25 11:17 ten 17:18 30:14
16:5 52:19 53:6 suggesting 8:18 term 5:1 39:16 time 5:8 8:16
37:12 statutes 6:17 48:20 terms 5:19 6:2 14:17 19:7
41:1 14:18 19:11,15 suggestion 6:15 testimony 37:7 25:3,6,25 27:7
42:10 4:25 20:21 22:16 28:21 29:9 32:12 told 30:8
43:12 24:24 26:9 48:17 37:16 41:19,20 tolerance 20:24
statutory 3:12 support 11:6 44:25 45:4,16 20:25
4:3,16 6:16 staunch 31:13 37:3,6 40:14 28:12 46:1 transferred
7:7,10 36:5 supposed 25:3 47:3,4,9 53:13 17:17
15:1 step 13:18 Supreme 1:1,12 thing 4:8 15:14 treat 52:3
19:8 Stevens 15:22 sure 15:23 28:15 15:20 30:17,17 treating 11:1
21:20 16:7,15 28:14 40:8 41:6 45:2 42:7 12:12 47:13
31:23 28:24 29:8,16 46:10 things 4:12 6:8 48:1,18
36:10,14 45:2,7,15,18 surely 43:7 6:23 14:21 triple 16:10,11
44:1 46:1,10,13 surgery 12:22 24:8 31:25 TROY 1:18 2:5
48:9 stop 47:16 surrendered 41:23 47:20 26:3
strategic 34:8 13:21 think 6:20 7:2 true 5:17 6:8,11
52:2,17 straws 40:8 suspect 18:12 7:22 8:5 9:15 16:15 47:20
structure 5:7,13 swelled 20:10 10:11,22,23 trump 24:19
5:2 32:10,10,19 T 13:3,8,9,11 25:11 35:1
6:8 44:25 48:24 T 2:1,1 14:2 15:6,7,12 twice 8:6
7:9 8:14 50:21 take 10:17 11:18 16:6,12,13,23 two 3:12 4:12,25
12:16 stuff 17:11 13:21 31:11 17:5,12,24 6:8,21 8:23
stymied 27:6 32:3,7 36:20 18:3,5,15 9:12 10:4,6
48:13 40:2 42:23,25 19:16 22:1,11 11:18,20 12:4
17:1,8 subject 52:3,4 44:19,24 23:7,16,16,22 12:9,12,21
20:16 submitted 53:14 taken 27:8 41:20 23:24 25:5,18 19:6 28:15,16
22:12,18 53:16 takes 43:2,2 36:8,13 40:1 36:20,24 47:20
24:22 subparagraph talk 9:20 40:12 42:3 48:24 49:15
28:25 38:13 talked 22:5 43:10 44:24 50:24
30:4 subsection talking 10:25 47:21 50:6,7 two-thirds 4:3
28:16 11:2,4 18:20 50:13,14,14 7:6
38:8,9 substantiate 18:21 48:21 53:11 type 5:24 6:1,3
39:1,15 44:20 50:16 third 16:3 38:13 21:10,11 22:25
40:14 substitute 30:16 talks 10:3 thought 12:1 25:4 49:22
45:13 targeting 42:9 27:24 34:11,12 types 24:19
substituted 5:3 Taylor 25:9 thoughts 19:6 51:21
44:16 5:6 tell 30:2,8 31:1 threatened 5:5 typical 25:2
46:25 sufficient 41:25 31:20 52:13 34:3 35:2,6
13:7 vague 40:20 31:21 32:12,13 28:18,20,20 10:53 1:13 3:2
18:19 VAWA 6:24,24 36:23 41:9 30:24 38:12 11:50 53:15
37:19 21:19 42:2 39:16 40:15 12 38:24
45:3,20 verb 16:11 29:2 wanted 4:6,7,14 41:5 47:13,22 17 7:10 14:19,19
version 23:9 6:16 16:24 48:12,25 49:4 15:1 19:11
28:5,5 33:3,3,4 31:3,22 32:1 words 8:12 35:15 36:15
versions 4:25 wants 6:22 22:2 26:25 27:2 52:17,20
47:16 48:9 view 13:23 wasn't 4:19 35:7 39:3 1994 6:24 43:16
48:18 way 3:13 7:16 49:1,3 43:24 44:6,14
48:16 5:1 6:13,17 7:8 10:3,11 13:4 50:5 2
22:19 26:11 41:12 43:10 7:10 10:15 24 43:24
49:5,10 34:2 35:8 ways 9:12 16:18 15:20 17:21 28th 27:22 31:11
36:11 37:6,8 41:11 18:2 39:23 33:1,10
42:9 weaken 36:8 50:12 51:7,9 3
8:9 9:20
43:13 weapon 5:5 written 14:13 3 2:4
16:2
27:25 45:25 51:25 15:25 30:15 wrong 50:1
34:3 35:6 4
29:18 W.Va 1:18
30:13,14 4473 53:3
11:21,25 weird 11:6 X
35:2,5,5 47 2:9
38:12 12:14 17:10,24 went 27:4 33:8 x 1:2,7
40:17,24 18:6,21 19:18 45:19
41:2,5 19:22 21:1 West 42:8 44:13
48:21 We'll 3:3 York 15:10,13 5a 28:10
49:7 53 44:10,15
47:11 44:13 51:6 wife 3:11 14:4,7 zero 20:24,25 8 51:4
43:25 44:1
21:13
18:22
42:15
