IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
DANIEL B. LOCKE, ET AL. :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 07-610
EDWARD A. KARASS, STATE :
CONTROLLER, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, October 6, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:08 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
W. JAMES YOUNG, ESQ., Springfield, Va.; on behalf of
the Petitioners.
JEREMIAH A. COLLINS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
W. JAMES YOUNG, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
JEREMIAH A. COLLINS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
W. JAMES YOUNG, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:08 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 07-610, Locke v. Karass.
Mr. Young.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF W. JAMES YOUNG
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. YOUNG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case addresses whether the First and
Fourteenth Amendments permit public employers to compel
nonunion employees to subsidize the union's expressive
speech of a political nature in a public forum,
specifically litigation in courts and before
administrative agencies not involving their bargaining
unit.
We submit that the answer to this question
is no, a result supported by the Court's unanimous,
unambiguous, and categorical holding in Ellis. In
Ellis, this Court held that, to avoid constitutional
problems, nonmembers under the Railway Labor Act could
not be forced to subsidize any litigation not arising
within their bargaining unit, not even litigation to
enforce another bargaining unit's agreement in
bankruptcy proceedings.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But, of course, they
wouldn't be subsidizing it if -- if, indeed, it is some
kind of a -- essentially an insurance scheme. They --
they contribute to the national union, and in exchange
the national union defends their interest just as it
defends the interest of other unions. You didn't
address that -- that pooling argument.
MR. YOUNG: I would respectfully disagree,
Justice Scalia, but my answer to your question --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't seem to me fair
to call it "subsidizing" if, in fact, that's what's
going on.
MR. YOUNG: Well, it is also not fair,
Justice Scalia, to call it "insurance." It's
affiliation, and the answer to the question --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know because that
wasn't inquired into by the court below. I guess we
really -- we really don't know, do we, when -- whether
the local union can make any demands upon the -- upon
the national union for -- for litigation defense?
MR. YOUNG: Well, I think we can rely,
Justice Scalia, on the admissions contained in MSEA's
brief, which clearly concedes that, in fact, SEIU has no
enforceable obligations under its affiliation
arrangement with MSEA.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if we don't call it
"insurance," can we all it "pooling"?
MR. YOUNG: Well, of course, that -- that is
what they call it, Justice Kennedy. And -- and -- and
pooling is -- is certainly something that we believe the
Court rejected in Ellis when it set forth a categorical
rule.
The pooling argument was raised in the
briefs in Ellis, and this Court did not see fit to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Young, I thought that
in Ellis the litigation -- the Ellis Court said that
that litigation did not have as its subject matter
negotiation or administration of a collective bargaining
contract.
MR. YOUNG: I don't believe that's the case,
Justice Ginsburg, because Ellis dealt with enforcing a
bargaining agreement.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm quoting from -- I'm
quoting from that decision at page 453. The case
involved litigation "not involving negotiation or
administration of a collective bargaining contract."
MR. YOUNG: Well, of course, Justice
Ginsburg, the -- some of the litigation did involve
enforcing another bargaining unit's agreement in
bankruptcy proceedings. I don't know how that is not
enforcing --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, are you saying the
Court got it wrong? I mean, the words that I'm quoting
are from the opinion: "Not involving negotiation or
administration of a collective bargaining contract."
MR. YOUNG: Well, that -- that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's the only thing
that could be germane. If it doesn't relate to that,
then your case is solid.
MR. YOUNG: Well, I'm trying -- I'm -- I'm
trying to find the specific language, Justice Ginsburg,
and I apologize for my inadequacy in this regard. But I
think the point that we -- I think the point that we
would rely on in Ellis in -- in -- in the very paragraph
that you referred to is the specificity with which this
Court discussed what was chargeable. It referred to the
contract, for instance. It referred to the exclusive
representative twice; not an exclusive representative,
but the exclusive representative. It referred to the
bargaining unit not less than five times in that single
paragraph in discussing what was permissible under the
Railway Labor Act.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you want to stand or fall
on the all-or-nothing argument that nonmembers can never
be required to pay for any extra-unit litigation
expenses, or do you have an -- an additional argument?
MR. YOUNG: Well, no, Justice Alito. We
believe -- we believe that the -- the Ellis standard is
the constitutional standard as both principal opinions
in Lehnert discuss.
In -- in Lehnert, Justice Blackmun
specifically recognized it in his -- in his plurality
opinion; and Justice Scalia himself said there was good
reason -- good cause to treat Ellis as stating the
constitutional rule.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, do you take -- do you
take that as -- as -- as meaning that the union couldn't
buy litigation insurance?
MR. YOUNG: Real insurance, Justice Souter?
I think that -- obviously that would be a --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Some of those -- some of
those premiums are going to subsidize the defense in --
in -- in cases beyond this bargaining unit. In fact,
most of it will.
MR. YOUNG: Well -- but the distinction,
Justice Souter, I think is discussed in the brief,
amicus brief, filed by Pacific Legal Foundation. For
one thing, it would not be the labor union that would be
-- another labor union receiving those insurance funds.
It would be a third-party insurer, presumably. That
would be --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So -- so in your view,
then, even if the agreement with the -- with the parent
union in this case involved an explicit obligation on
the part of the parent to come in and defend in -- if
litigation arose in this unit, that would still be bad?
MR. YOUNG: It would add the -- the insult
of the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I'm not interested in
insults. Is it -- is it constitutional, or isn't it?
MR. YOUNG: We believe it would not be if
the international affiliate were the insurer, Justice
Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then -- and -- and -- and
you do take the position that a -- a genuine insurance
policy issued by an insurer would not violate the
constitutional standard?
MR. YOUNG: That -- that is the -- that is
our argument, Justice Souter.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even though -- even
though there may be a great disconnect between the
premiums and the needs of the particular unit? I mean,
let's say the particular unit has -- I don't know -- has
always had a history of good relations with the
employer. It has never had to call upon litigation in
20 years, and they don't anticipate it, and yet their
insurance premiums rise dramatically because of very
hostile and extended litigation by another unit. Do you
-- do you concede that case?
MR. YOUNG: I -- I don't think -- well, I
don't think I would concede the premise of your
question, Mr. Chief Justice. The -- and I think that
point is -- is discussed fairly thoroughly in Pacific
Legal Foundation's brief.
A rate setting in an insurance context is --
is radically different than the affiliations fee setting
in this context. Rate -- and -- and much more about
insurance than, frankly, I know; but it -- it certainly
is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but it's based on the
experience of the whole -- the whole cohort of insureds.
MR. YOUNG: It's also --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the Chief Justice's
question says: Can a -- can a -- a local that is
certainly on the basis of past experience not going to
need this insurance nearly as much as other locals --
can it enter into an insurance arrangement with other
locals to buy the insurance for all of the locals even
though it knows that it won't benefit very much from
that insurance policy?
MR. YOUNG: I'm sorry. I misunderstood.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That was -- he was trying
to help you.
MR. YOUNG: And I'm sorry, Chief Justice
Roberts.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You should have said, yes,
Chief Justice.
(Laughter.)
MR. YOUNG: And -- and I -- and I appreciate
the help, Mr. Chief Justice, and your pointing that out,
Justice Scalia. My -- I -- I misunderstood the
question, and I apologize.
Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. The -- the -- our
point would be, however, that in that type of
relationship and I -- as I said, that's --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Does that mean that each
time they buy an insurance policy they have to
investigate which locals are going to get the most
benefit out of it?
MR. YOUNG: Well, I don't think that's a --
that's a decision for the locals. That's the insurer
setting rates, and -- and I -- I don't know of a market,
quite honestly, Justice Stevens, for that type of
insurance.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would you give one answer
to the Chief Justice on the facts he gave and a
different one if the record showed that everybody got a
proportional benefit out of the group policy?
MR. YOUNG: I don't -- no, Justice Stevens.
I don't think my question -- my answer would differ. I
think, however --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So your answer doesn't
depend, then, on the facts that he included in that
question?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He is not trying to
help you.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm not sure he was,
either.
MR. YOUNG: Well, one looks for it where one
can find it, Justice Stevens and Mr. Chief Justice.
The differing -- I think that the
distinction has to be made here between insurance on the
one hand and affiliation. There -- in -- in the
insurance context you have --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Does that mean all
insurance policies are bad?
MR. YOUNG: No, no, no. I -- I -- I concede
insurance, Justice Stevens. I -- my point -- if it is
true insurance, insurance where there is mutuality of
obligation.
The difficulty that this Court, I believe,
found in the Ellis case when it set a bright-line test
was that it was public -- and I -- and I think can be
discerned from the Court's other cases, including
Glickman -- is we're talking about public speech, speech
of a political nature in a public forum.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, there was -- there
was mutuality of obligation in the hypothesis that I
gave you in which the agreement with the parent union
required an affirmative obligation of the parent union
to come in and defend if litigation arose. And you said
that still would not be constitutional.
MR. YOUNG: And I -- and I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So the -- so the criterion
has got to be something other than mutuality of
obligation, right?
MR. YOUNG: And it assuredly is, Justice
Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And what is the other
distinction?
MR. YOUNG: The other distinction has to be
that it is not -- it is -- the problem also arises from
the nature of the forced relationship. As this Court
has recognized in cases such as Ellis and Abood,
allowing the agency shop at all works an infringement on
First Amendment rights.
JUSTICE SOUTER: We -- we -- we start with
that premise, but what is the other distinction, then?
If it is not mutuality of obligation, what -- what is
the -- what is the -- the -- the -- the point that
separates the -- the sheep from the goats here?
MR. YOUNG: Well, the mutuality of
obligation coupled with true rate setting in the sense
that there is a -- there is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What -- what is -- what has
rate setting got to do with -- with your basic point?
Your basic point, as I understand it, is that some of
the money that's being taken from the -- from the local
union and in our example subsidized by the service fee
is being used to subsidize litigation for other unions.
And that is, it seems to me, exactly true in the
insurance case.
Some of those premiums will subsidize
litigation -- speech -- involving speech in -- in other
union bargaining areas. What's the distinction?
MR. YOUNG: Well, the distinction, Justice
Souter, would be that there is -- it doesn't seem to me
that there is a -- there is a larger pool created than
just a union litigation pool in the insurance context.
Furthermore, the -- the -- the money, in fact, is spread
about --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I don't know whether that's
true or not. If you buy labor litigation insurance I
suppose it is not. Don't they set their rates with
respect to the experience in labor litigation, not in --
on their experience with automobile accidents.
MR. YOUNG: I don't know of an insurance
company that's quite that specific, Justice Souter, nor
have I ever heard of labor -- labor union insurance --
labor litigation insurance. So I'm not sure that such a
market actually exists.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Neither do I.
MR. YOUNG: Certainly there is not on this
record that would suggest so, sir.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I did want to understand
your position. Suppose there is a statewide contract
for public employees and one union brings a suit to
interpret a provision of that collective bargaining
agreement having to do with overtime or holidays or
something. And then it notifies the other union, we're
going to have to drop this litigation because we can't
afford it. Even though it ultimately may affect you
down the line, you're not a party. I don't see the harm
in allowing the other union to subsidize or
contribute -- use whatever verb you want -- that
litigation -- that litigation.
MR. YOUNG: Well, of course if the other
union --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what -- what harm
are we trying to prevent here?
MR. YOUNG: Well, obviously First Amendment
harm, Justice Kennedy. But I think understanding -- if
I understand your hypothetical --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The First Amendment can
be -- can be a sword or a shield. This union wants to
use it as a sword in order to promote, in order to
protect its rights under the collective bargaining
agreement. I don't see the harm.
MR. YOUNG: Excuse me, Justice Kennedy. I'm
sorry for interrupting you.
Certainly the union has the right to
associate as it sees fit. The First Amendment protects
that right. We are not suggesting that it doesn't have
the right to go out and ask other labor unions to
contribute to its litigation activities.
What the First Amendment -- the -- the First
Amendment right to not speak is -- is involved when, in
the words of the Ninth Circuit in one of these cases,
"they seek to mulch from the unwilling moneys for their
speech activities in a public forum."
JUSTICE BREYER: What I don't understand
about --
MR. YOUNG: I'm sorry, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Finish because there's
something --
MR. YOUNG: Thank you, sir. And my point
would be under the hypothetical as I understand it, you
posed a union in -- within the State under the same
bargaining agreement being asked to support for
litigation under one of the other locals. I can think
of a number of cases where that's actually the case, two
locals under one bargaining agreement just in my own
experience. And so you're not suggesting something
that's unusual.
I think under that circumstances that would
fall squarely within Ellis' rule. It involves the
bargaining agreement. It may not involve the specific
bargaining unit, but it is concerning the bargaining
agreement.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's not quite the
hypothetical. Let's say there are two bargaining
agreements but they're identical, and that this
litigation that's underway will have persuasive force
for the union that's thinking about entering, and then
the union decides that it is going to enter to help the
union involved in the suit, and the members of the, of
the contributing union object and you say they have a
First Amendment right. That's your point?
MR. YOUNG: Yes, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't see why the
objects of collective bargaining the, objects of
union -- of the union, are not being fulfilled.
MR. YOUNG: Because that goes beyond the
free rider rationale which justifies the agency shop in
the earlier cases such as Hansen and Street. The free
rider that the Congress was concerned with -- and of
course, it's been adopted through Abood to apply to the
States -- the free rider that Congress was concerned
with is the free rider that is required to accept the
union's services and refuses to subsidize those
services. And the -- this Court in discussing that in
terms of lobbying and public relations activities found
that the relationship was too attenuated.
Obviously judicial decisionmaking and
administrative decisionmaking is good for its persuasive
effect in many different contexts. But that -- that
relationship was found to be too attenuated in Ellis and
with regard to litigation and certainly in Lehnert with
regard to public relations --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the part I don't
understand. It's not your fault. I don't understand it
in the cases either. What First Amendment right are we
talking about? There is an individual who, under the
agency shop, pays dues to a union. Now, suppose the
union uses some of that money in a way that has nothing
to do with politics, nothing to do with speech, but it
doesn't happen to benefit that particular member.
For example, you can have a central union
headquarters 4,000 miles away where there's a librarian
who's doing research on a matter that will help lots of
people, but nobody in this area. Or you could have a
program to commemorate the people who were hurt in the
State of Hawaii at a union uprising or strike of some
kind where nobody in this particular area is ever going
to go.
Now, both of those activities are totally
legitimate union activities that have nothing to do with
politics. But this particular place won't benefit from
them. Okay, what in the First Amendment prohibits the
union from paying for such an activity out of general
union dues assessed on everybody? And why would the
First Amendment prohibit such a thing?
MR. YOUNG: Under Lehnert, Justice Breyer,
the expenditures which you posit would be chargeable and
are not at issue here. `
JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. If they are
chargeable because they have nothing to do with
politics, perfectly legitimate, why isn't it also
chargeable to pay for the costs of a lawsuit which has
nothing to do with politics, totally for a union
purpose, it just doesn't happen to benefit that person
who's miles away in a different local?
MR. YOUNG: Because benefit has never been
the touchstone. And under Ellis and under Lehnert and
certain pluralities --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't want you to tell me
about cases. I'm abstracting from -- I want to know the
reasoning. I want to know why.
MR. YOUNG: Because we are talking about
public -- political speech of a public nature.
JUSTICE BREYER: I said there is no politics
in any of these expenditures. 42 bishops would swear
there is nothing here that has anything to do with
politics.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why does it have to be
political speech? Isn't it enough that it is simply
speech that certain people don't want to subsidize, or
speech, so that the commemoration in Hawaii may be
something that 99.999 percent of the population would
find very commendable, but someone is being forced to
pay for that?
MR. YOUNG: And I may --
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's the reasoning
that you seem to accept and I guess all human activity
is banned. Because to my knowledge, all human activity
takes place through speech with a few exceptions that
are not here relevant.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it isn't banned.
It's just -- just -- you know, you don't force the
nonunion member who indeed may be anti-union to pay for
it. And he doesn't want to subsidize the union
librarian. He doesn't like unions here. He doesn't
like unions in Hawaii. And for the government to force
him to -- to support the union is, I thought, part of
the reasoning behind --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'd be interested in your
comments on this dialogue.
MR. YOUNG: I'd be happy to jump in here
somewhere, Justice Stevens. I appreciate the colloquy.
And I think the distinction -- getting back to the point
Justice Alito raised, and the sharp distinction that has
been made in the compelled speech and compelled dues
cases is between the activities -- certainly in the
compelled union dues cases, is activities for which
nonmembers are compelled to accept the union as
bargaining representative.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why isn't
litigation -- what I don't understand is how you draw a
line between the -- the negotiation of an agreement,
where Lehnert said this kind of pooling is okay, and the
enforcement of the agreement. I mean, we're not talking
about litigation unrelated to collective bargaining. It
is only litigation that deals with the meaning of a term
in the contract, whether what the employer has done was
an unfair labor practice, whether there has been a
contractual violation.
MR. YOUNG: For the -- I'm sorry, Justice
Ginsburg. For the agreement, for the unit, we concede
that the union may charge for that public speech of a
political nature in a public forum. We have no dispute
over charging for enforcing or -- or -- enforcing the
collective bargaining agreement. That is not our
dispute.
The dispute here is only over expenditures
on behalf of other bargaining units, where we believe
Ellis said it was too attenuated, but because it is
not -- my point would be that the litigation which is
acceptably chargeable -- I think the presumptive -- I
think the default value in this Court's decisionmaking
on litigation is that it's nonchargeable. However, the
Court has drawn a narrow exception for that public
speech in public forum which is related to the union's
duties as, not related to but in performance of the
union's duties as bargaining agent the duties for which
law imposes the union as a bargaining agent.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't understand why
enforcing, one thing is making the agreement and there
you agree as you must because of our Lehnert decision
you can't have these pooling arrangements. What's the
difference between negotiating an agreement and
litigation to enforce it.
MR. YOUNG: I think that would go back as
far as Justice Marshall and Marbury. It would be an
empty right if the union were able to negotiate an
agreement it wouldn't be permitted to enforce. Begins
begins that's, that's my point. I can't see the
difference between saying pooling is okay when we're
dealing with negotiating an agreement, but it's not okay
when we're dealing with enforcing it.
The distinction is, Justice Ginsburg, that
the negotiation of the agreement does not occur in a
public forum, whereas litigation does, and that's the
distinction we would draw.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought the
distinction you were drawing was whether or not the
collective bargaining agreement applies to the
particular union. If it's a different unit with a
different agreement I thought you were saying that that
can't be charged, but if it's the bargaining agreement
that binds the particular unit, I thought you said that
was chargeable.
MR. YOUNG: Mr. Chief Justice, I'm sorry if
I was confusing. I thought I was very specific. It is
chargeable for litigation involving the bargaining
agreement. We don't dispute that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of the particular
unit.
MR. YOUNG: Of the particular unit. That is
not in dispute here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I suppose you
would also concede that if the bargaining agreement is
exactly the same, you know a number of units have
exactly the same bargaining agreement, which I would
suppose is a not uncommon situation, but litigation with
respect to the terms of the bargaining agreement even
though it happens to involve a different unit is also
chargeable to the particular unit.
MR. YOUNG: No, Mr. Chief Justice, we would
not concede that. We believe that this Court in Ellis
drew a bright line, and I think that's clear in Ellis'
discussion of the mutual aid pact which was not
chargeable in Ellis, found not chargeable in Ellis. The
distinction that I think this Court has drawn or that
should I would respectfully suggest should be drawn is
that -- is a narrow one. It's consistent with strict
scrutiny and this Court's jurisprudence in that area.
Only for speech which is narrowly related to the union's
duties as bargaining agent and performance of those
duties can public speech -- can charging nonmembers for
public political speech in a public forum be justified.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Does that mean, because I
want to be sure -- you exclude the librarian example of
Justice Breyer?
MR. YOUNG: The librarian I think would fall
under the general Lehnert test.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So which side? You have
to be clear with me.
MR. YOUNG: There were a lot of sides there,
Justice Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand you to be
saying they could not charge the nonmember for the
expenses of the Hawaiian librarian.
MR. YOUNG: I think it was the Hawaiian
commemoration that Justice Breyer referred to that I
think I had to rethink, because it was a public speech
in a public forum. The librarian researching bargaining
issues at the union headquarters in downtown Washington
or -- well, in downtown Washington of the international
affiliate I think is chargeable under Lehnert.
JUSTICE STEVENS: The librarian in Hawaii
researching something that the plaintiff has no interest
in spending money on, would that be prohibited.
MR. YOUNG: Well, here, Justice Stevens, we
are simply talking about of course the international
affiliate. As far as cross-unit affiliation, I'm not
sure. I think that would fall under again, general,
Lehnert's general test.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you tell us two
hypotheticals. One is the librarian, two is the public
celebration. Would nonunion, would participating unions
be allowed to contribute to either of those activities?
MR. YOUNG: Well, of course they'd be
allowed to. Can they force nonmembers --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Against nonmembers?
Against members, there has to be a pro-ration, they has
to be a pro-ration. A with the librarian, B with the
celebration.
MR. YOUNG: The public celebration, no; the
librarian, I believe so, yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You have several times
mentioned the public forum as having a significance in
drawing the line and I'm not sure I follow you there.
Why did you say that?
MR. YOUNG: Well, I think -- well, Justice
Souter, that arises from the Court's determinations on
things like public relations and lobbying and the
distinction it makes, the distinction for instance in
Lehnert between the teacher's voice articles and the
reserve public education program. The distinction drawn
from that, the different, differing results is that
where internal union communications regarding
nonpolitical matters were treated as chargeable by a
majority of this Court and where the, outward looking
speech activities is treated as not chargeable.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Let me ask you this. If an
employer and a union local decided that you know they
would really let the sunshine in and they would conduct
their collective bargaining in a theater with
microphones and anybody could drop in and hear, would
that change the chargibility of, as against the
dissenting nonmembers.
MR. YOUNG: No Justice Souter because the
speech would still be directed at the public employer
not ex--- I would like to reserve the balance of my
time, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you counsel.
Mr. Collins?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEREMIAH A. COLLINS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. COLLINS: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
When this Court in Abood described the kinds
of expenditures that bargaining agents are are required
to engage in and that necessitate a rule that requires
all represented employees including objecting nonmembers
to pay their share services of lawyers is what the court
first mentioned. The single narrow question presented
in this case is whether a local bargaining agent that's
confronted with the need to pay for those services of
lawyers to draw upon legal expertise in bargaining
related matters is required to go it alone rely solely
on its open resources and its own expertise or --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's not what
we are talking about. It doesn't have to go it alone.
It simply can't force members of another unit that can
decide they are happy to support it but the members who
don't want to support it who don't like unions, they
can't be forced to pay for it if it does not relate to
their collective bargaining agreement.
MR. COLLINS: But the question Mr. Chief
just sis whether that, I should add if that unit wants
to not neither go it alone nor give a free ride to
objecting nonmembers can they avail itself.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If the litigation is
not germane to the unit where people object to that
unit's collective bargaining agreement they are not free
riding on anything.
MR. COLLINS: They are free riding on the
same thing that Lehnert says they cannot free ride on.
Lehnert as Mr. Young acknowledges certainly holds that
as a general proposition when a local union bargaining
agent is determining how to finance germane expenditures
that it will incur germane to its unit, it can either
obviously go it alone rely on its own resources or it
can enter into an affiliation relationship where it will
pay an affiliation fee the -- of which will be measured
by the tote chargeable expenditures incurred by the
National Union in other bargaining units as well as when
it's the local's own unit. What Lehnert teaches is that
that situation cannot fairly be described as requiring
the objective nonmember to subsidize other units.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if there is no
-- I guess I'm getting into the solace thor general's
position here. What if the unit with the objective
members does not have a right to call upon the pool?
Either, or has never called upon the pool in its
unlikely that it will. Isn't there, it's not simply
subsidization. It's their compelled fees being used for
something that doesn't Ben fate their collective
bargaining arrangement.
MR. COLLINS: There are three problems with
that contention by the solace the -- general which the
petitioners have adopted for the first time in their
reply brief. The first problem was precisely that. It
was not raised in the Court of Appeals, it's not raised
in the petition for certiorari. The second problem is I
should add it's not been raised in any other post
Lehnert case and I think the reason this issue is not
being raised is it's understood I think incorrectly that
Lehnert itself did not solve a situation where the kind
of showing that the solicitor general and now with the
Petitioners would require. In Lehnert where this court
did approve pooling of a wide range of expenses the
court simply referred to the fact that the union in that
case had a unified membership structure which as the
court put it under which so many unions operate and the
court talked about the essence of an affiliation
relationship between that locals can draw on
international for services but there was no record, this
was no showing, this was no finding, there was no
discussion of any notion that that local union in
Lehnert had an enforceable right for any --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Exactly -- I'm
sorry. I was just going to say exactly so I regard that
issue as still open. It was not addressed at all in
Lehnert.
MR. COLLINS: It was raised in the reply
brief in Lehnert. The Petitioners in Lehnert complained
that a problem with pooling is that there are no
guarantees and no standards. That -- that's why there's
a discussion that's reflected in Justice Scalia's
separate opinion, a discussion of the fact that it was
acknowledged that there is no contractual relationship,
but that there were certain customs and -- and
practices. But there was no evidence and certainly no
determination by this Court --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what did the Court
mean in Lehnert when it said there must be some
indication the payment is for service that may
ultimately inure to the benefit of members of the local
union by virtue of their membership in the parent
organization?
MR. COLLINS: What -- what the Court meant
by that, I believe, Justice Ginsburg, is that -- well,
look at the examples the Court gave of what does not --
or the Court referred to certain kinds of payments a
local union could make which are not part of an
affiliation fee payment.
The Court talks about direct payments to
other locals. The Court -- the other example given was
a payment to a -- a national union that wasn't required
by affiliation but was like a charitable contribution.
What the Court did not dispute in Lehnert is
that, to the extent that an affiliation fee is providing
a pool of resources used by the national union for
otherwise chargeable services, the potential
availability of those services does satisfy the
inurement requirement.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose, let's say, that one
or more locals someplace else in the country are
involved in very, very expensive litigation; and, as a
result, the international assesses all of the locals a
fee to pay -- to pay for that litigation but at the same
time adopts a position that it is extremely unlikely in
the future that the international will ever subsidize
any other local union litigation expenses.
Would the local -- would a -- would a local
union not involved in that litigation -- would they --
would it be permissible for them to charge their
nonmembers?
MR. COLLINS: If it were a special
assessment for a specific purpose, I think under -- it
is not embraced by Lehnert's rationale. It might not
well not be chargeable, because what Lehnert -- Lehnert
does not arise in a vacuum. Lehnert talks about the
typical affiliation fee relationship. And there have
been various submissions, treatise articles about that.
So the notion is that a National Union
charges an affiliation fee for all of the various
services it provides, and local unions can draw upon
those resources as needed. If you then talk about a
special assessment --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if you concede that,
then aren't you conceding there has to be some standard
by -- under which to assess whether the local union that
is being required to pay the fee for extra-unit
litigation expenses is getting something back in return?
MR. COLLINS: I think not, Your Honor, for
-- for two reasons. First, I do think that Lehnert did
approve --
JUSTICE ALITO: It's not necessary for there
to be any standard under which to assess that they are
getting anything back in return? If it's clear they are
not getting anything back in return, it's still okay?
MR. COLLINS: Not beyond -- and again the
question isn't presented, but not beyond what Lehnert
found necessary. Lehnert found it important -- and I
would say necessary to its decision -- that the union in
that case had what Lehnert described as a typical,
unified, membership-affiliation-fee arrangement; and it
talks about a typical affiliation fee where locals pay
money to go to the pools of otherwise chargeable
expenditures of the national union.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if you have a
situation where there is a provision in the collective
bargaining agreement that the union thinks requires the
employer to provide air conditioning in the plant, the
local up in Nome, Alaska has to support that extra --
extra-unit litigation even though it will never have any
benefit for it?
MR. COLLINS: Just as Lehnert plainly holds
that local would have to support the negotiation of that
provision in the first place in Nome, Alaska. That's
the holding of Lehnert. The question is whether
litigation is different, and there is no way that
litigation is different in any principled way as relates
to the ruling.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought it meant
-- I didn't think Lehnert held that the unit would have
to support that type of extra-unit litigation. I mean,
I --
MR. COLLINS: Well, I may have misconstrued
your -- it was litigation over --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. Yes, there is
a provision that is ambiguous, which frequently happens,
and the union says that requires air conditioning, and
the company says no, and there is a big fight about
that.
MR. COLLINS: Well, I think my answer is
still correct, Your Honor. Lehnert does not hold --
well, it does not provide the answer as to litigation;
but Lehnert says if the union in the first instance says
we want to go to Nome, Alaska and negotiate something
about air conditioning, that that, even though it only
affects the unit in Nome, Alaska, becomes part of the
pool of chargeable expenditures that all units can be
part of.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, sure, because
that negotiation is germane to the Nome, Alaska
collective bargaining agreement, if they are negotiating
it there for that unit.
MR. COLLINS: But the litigation is equally
germane. Petitioners do not dispute that litigation can
be germane and chargeable within a particular unit.
They acknowledge that; there is no dispute about that.
So both the negotiation of the air conditioning right in
Nome, Alaska and the enforcement of that negotiated
agreement through litigation are equally germane within
the unit; the same interests are involved --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But aren't they, aren't
they equal chargeable? Isn't the unspoken premise of
your argument and what Lehnert is getting at -- they are
not only germane, but isn't there an unspoken premise
that just as the union will support -- the union of the
dissident objectors in negotiating a collective
bargaining agreement, the union will also presumably
support them if litigation is necessary later on to
enforce it?
So that the so-called standard by which the
union's obligation to support the litigation and the
unit that includes the dissidents is not somehow
precisely spelled out. The assumption is that they do
have some obligation to support the litigation if it
comes to the dissidents' unit. And isn't that -- isn't
that the point of your argument?
MR. COLLINS: That's correct, Your Honor,
and I want to make clear when the Court spoke in Lehnert
of the essence of an affiliation agreement, an
affiliation agreement is a contractual relationship. We
would certainly view that as creating a covenant of good
faith and fair dealing that the national union will deal
fairly with its various units.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Which is a covenant, in
effect, of support.
MR. COLLINS: That's correct, and it's
actually quite analogous in that regard to the duty of
fair representation that, let's say an unaffiliated
local union owns to its objecting nonmembers. The --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think as a
covenant of support you have -- however many -- about a
thousand individual units. You think each of those, you
have a covenant to support them when they all get -- get
involved in separate litigation? You can't possibly.
MR. COLLINS: No, Mr. Chief Justice, what I
said was a covenant of good faith and fair dealing. And
that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's quite
unlike, for example, insurance. If you have insurance
and you as the unit have a particular obligation, you
have a right to have that covered. There is no similar
right here.
MR. COLLINS: That's -- that's correct, Your
Honor. The First Amendment does not create a rate
setting rule for unions. And the reason for that is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, so there is no, there
is no covenant of support. There is what? A covenant
of support if the litigation in the local unit that
includes the dissidents has wide significance, and
therefore could affect other units? Is that what the --
is that what the obligation is?
MR. COLLINS: No, Justice Souter. I would
not --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is this any obligation at
all? You said okay, there is an obligation of some kind
of fair dealing. Given the question that we've got,
that doesn't matter unless the fair dealing relates at
some point to support for litigation, right?
MR. COLLINS: That the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Right?
MR. COLLINS: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. COLLINS: That the National Union --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And how do we articulate
what that obligation is? If it's not covenant to
support regardless of what the litigation is, how do we
articulate what the degree of the obligation of support
is?
MR. COLLINS: The way I would articulated
it, and then I would like to take a step backward and
compare it to the nonaffiliated situation. I would
articulate it as follows, that there is no any First
Amendment requirement, that there is in reality in the
affiliation agreement simply a covenant of good faith
and good dealing that one local will be treated with
respect to litigation needs as others would be treated.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but the trouble with
saying that is exactly the point that the Chief Justice
raised. You don't take the position that no matter what
the litigation is, the parent union has got to support
it. Therefore, how do we identify the litigation that
they will support? How do we know that they have any
obligation at all?
MR. COLLINS: They -- they don't have a
First Amendment obligation, but, Your Honor, that is
true in the case of agency fees all together. We have
to take a step back and remember that we are trying to
perform an exercise the court has said can't be done to
perfection of trying to distinguish between making
individuals who object support collective bargaining
activities not support other things.
In Hudson itself, in the basic situation --
let's assume there is no affiliation agreement, simply a
local union, a fee is charged based on the percentage of
expenses in the prior year that went for chargeable
activities, including, let's say, litigation. That
creates no guarantee that when the year -- in the year
that we are now in, when fees are being paid, that if
litigation is demanded, requested by a nonmember or
anyone else, that that local union will provide --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it doesn't create a
guarantee expressed like the terms of an insurance
policy, but there is, in fact, a local practice to which
one can refer. And it seems, it would seem reasonable
in a case like that to say, okay, you can force the
dissident to pay a fair share on the expectation that
the same kind of enforcement litigation will take place
if there is a dispute this year or next year.
We don't have, as I understand it, a clear
sort of expectation standard when we are talking about
affiliation agreements that involve a parent and many,
many other locals. And the point here, it seems to me,
is to determine whether there is any obligation at all
whether the dissident is getting anything or can expect
to get anything for the fee. And what I want to know is
how do we describe that obligation?
MR. COLLINS: I think, at most, the
obligation is parallel to the duty of fair
representation in the sense that the entity that's
responsible for determining what services are going to
be provided to the employees has to treat, in the case
of the local union members and nonmembers in the unity
plea, in the case of the national union it's a different
affiliated entity fairly -- the reason --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So we are talking
about an infringement on the objecting members' first
amendment rights, and your answer is trust us, we'll
treat you fairly? I understand that it's a different
answer if you say you've got a right. We can impose the
contribution requirement on you, even though you object
to it because under this agreement, you have a right to
call upon our services. That's a different case. But
if your answer is simply trust us we'll treat you
fairly, that's not the usual standard we apply to
infringements of First Amendment rights.
MR. COLLINS: But I have two answers to
that, Mr. Chief Justice. First, it is essentially the
answer that's supplied under Hudson, where the court
says simply use the prior year's percentages. We don't
know whether this year we'll have the same percentage
breakdown. We also don't know whether this year the
union will have enough money to provide any particular
service or not. But we don't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's different.
That's a little bit more stringent than saying trust us.
That's saying let's look at the last year and we'll
figure it out.
MR. COLLINS: But we look at the -- but --
but we look at the national union typical affiliation
type arrangement, as the court described it in Lehnert,
and what we understand is this is a union that's not
making a profit, it's not piling up fees and putting
them somewhere. It exists to provide services to local
affiliates.
Those affiliates, if they are not provided
with services, it's not just the nonmember, the objector
who's being harmed, the members want those services by
definition.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But couldn't it be,
couldn't the national say, local, you have asked for
assistance with such-and-such litigation. We think your
case is what this Court sometimes calls a bad vehicle.
We don't want to finance your litigation, the issue is
important and we are going to wait for a case that
presents it in a better light, is more likely to win.
MR. COLLINS: Absolutely, Your Honor, that's
one thing a national union can properly do. Another
thing a national union can properly do is to say we've
just had an unexpected economic crisis, all of a sudden
midterm we have to change our priorities and we are
going to have to protect people from a lot of layoffs.
But the second point I want to make --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The issue is not whether
that's a fair thing for the national union to do. The
issue is whether the person who is being compelled
against his will to pay dues to the union is getting
anything back for that compelled payment. And even
though the national union may be acting in an entirely
fair fashion, given its national objectives, the -- the
compelled payment is not doing what our cases seem to
say it must do. It has to be paying for services
rendered.
MR. COLLINS: What -- the value the -- the
objector is getting is not have a guarantee of services.
He has the potential for services far beyond what could
ever be paid for out of the local's own affiliation
fees.
And I would add if a national union were to
act in some improper way in terms of how it doles out
assistance -- and by the way, one doesn't see cases on
this, it's really not in the nature of how national
unions operate, because again, we are talking about
members and nonmembers equally in terms of who's going
to get benefits. So it's not a problem in the real
world of national unions treating a particular local
unfairly for some reason and not giving them services
that are given to others. There are certainly a lot of
judgments involved, as Justice Ginsburg's question
elicited.
But if a national union were to treat
affiliates unfairly, it's quite possible that if and
when that occurred, that it might have implications
under a number of possible causes of actions and
including possibly the right to object. Justice
Scalia's opinion in Lehnert noted that if and when
services aren't provided, there might be ground for
objection.
The question here is is this a basis under
the First Amendment to have a prophylactic rule that
says we are so concerned that even though we have no
rule under Hudson that provides assurance that an
unaffiliated local union will provide any particular
services to its members and nonmembers, we have such a
concern that somehow national unions won't deliver the
goods, that we are going to set up the hierarchy of
either guarantees, standards, which if the issue had
been presented here and we had created a record, we
would show the Court -- I think no union in this country
has and for good reason, both because of the virtual
infinitude of legitimate factors one could consider also
because of the constant changes in needs of local
unions --
JUSTICE ALITO: If certain -- if certain
fees are are being assessed on the theory that this is a
pooling arrangement, I don't understand why you're
resisting any effort to impose any standards or any
inquiry as to whether it's really a pooling arrangement?
MR. COLLINS: Because, Your Honor -- and the
reason I started my argument by saying there is really
two choices, a local union goes it alone or has the
arrangement that we have here, is that it simply would
not be possible in the nature of things to have a set of
standards and guarantees that would be meaningful in any
way to govern how national unions provide services to
locals. A standard of basic fairness and equal
treatment is one thing, but to try to say -- and one
could tick off, I suppose, 50 things we'll consider.
We'll consider whether it's going to be an
important precedent, whether it's the kind of thing a
local can't afford on its own, whether it's important
now that we have pressing economic problems and everyone
is being laid off, is this a good test case or a bad
test case, how broad will the implications of this be.
One could list 50 factors, but they wouldn't guide any
inquiry in a meaningful way.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if we determine
as a matter of First Amendment law that such a
requirement is necessary, then you lose, because you're
saying we can't possibly fashion the test?
MR. COLLINS: Then we lose and so does the
union in Lehnert lose. There was no -- it was
acknowledged that there was nothing like that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Lehnert didn't
address the question of litigation.
MR. COLLINS: Well, but if -- but there has
been no argument made that would explain why if you --
if one can pool -- if the union negotiates an agreement
with a very controversial provision that a nonmember has
a very legitimate objection to, Lehnert holds that can
be pooled. Lehnert does not say the standard --
JUSTICE ALITO: Your argument seems to be
that the whole analogy of a pooling arrangement is
invalid. That was unrealistic, because there really is
no way of telling whether any of these things is a
pooling arrangement. There is no standard that could
possibly be articulated that would be meaningful to
determine whether something that is labelled a pooling
arrangement really is in any way a pooling arrangement.
That seems to me argument. That would seem to cut
against the whole idea of pooling arrangements not only
for litigation expenses, but for everything else.
MR. COLLINS: I have two responses to that,
Justice Alito. First, the -- if one had to have the
kinds of either guarantees or meaningful enforceable
standards that are implied in your question, then in the
nature of the beast, it could not be done by national
unions, and we would be in a system then when all that
can happen is that a local union has to rely solely on
its own resources, solely on its own expertise. And
it's doing that despite, as Judge Lynch pointed out in
the concurrence, despite the dire impact that can have
on its ability to represent people and it's doing it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it doesn't have to do
that. It can use the money of its union members any way
it wants. It can contribute to the national all of
their money if it wishes. We are only talking about
that portion of the union income which comes from people
who don't want to join the union.
MR. COLLINS: Well, then it either has to
allow for -- the union has to either conclude we are
going to support all of our germane activities, all of
our chargeable activities through our own funding and
our own resources, and if that's just inadequate and
therefore litigation needs to be conducted, we can't do
it; the employer knows that so it can take advantage of
us in bargaining; we are just going to have to live with
it; or we can say our members will pay for that but the
nonmembers won't, because the only solution other than
using the local's own money is to pay a fee to the
national. And as I've indicated in Lehnert as in this
case, the arrangement is not one that provides
guarantees --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, one of the
difficulties it seems to me is the Petitioner's position
with the sort of all or nothing approach. But you
seemed to be taking the mirror position of that. Your
argument is all or nothing on your side. I don't get
much help from either side as to what the standard
should be. I know germane is obviously a malleable
word, but we are looking to see if there is some test
that we can use that's not all or nothing.
MR. COLLINS: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I haven't heard from
either side yet what that would be.
MR. COLLINS: The -- the question, Justice
Kennedy, is whatever the test is if it's satisfied as to
expenditures within the unit where the services are
provided, can those services be pooled or is there a
different test that has to be applied to the pooling?
My submission is that Lehnert makes clear there is no
separate test.
As to what the test is within -- and
therefore, as to the question presented here, one
doesn't need to decide on the actual test that will be
applied within the local because as your separate
opinion and Justice Scalia's separate opinion in Lehnert
made clear, even under the narrower statutory duties
test there could still be pooling; the definition as to
what can be pooled would simply be different. I'd only
note on the question of whether the tests should be
germaneness with the two additional prongs as held in
Lehnert, or the statutory duties test, that again is a
question that's not presented here. As I just indicated
it doesn't affect the concept of pooling.
There has also been no confusion, contrary
to Petitioner's contention, under the Lehnert test. The
only issue that's given the courts difficulties is the
specific issue here as to why the plurality in Lehnert
seemed to indicate that litigation might be in a
different status under pooling. So there is no basis in
this case for reconsidering the basic Lehnert test of
chargeability.
I will simply note, however, that the
statutory duties test which -- for which Petitioners
argue really doesn't make the situation clearer than
the -- than the germaneness test because the
Government -- both the germaneness test and the
statutory duties test acknowledge that the union's right
to charge objecting nonmember stems from its function as
exclusive bargaining representative; but there is no way
to sustain logically the notion that that means that
only those things that are done in that exclusive
representative capacity are chargeable; because the same
Government interests that allow for charging when the
union is acting as the exclusive bargaining agent have
to also allow for charging for those things that are
necessary in order for the union to play that role, and
to enforce that role which includes things like the
headquarters; it includes things like litigation to
enforce an agreement, even though in those areas when
performing those functions, the union very often does
not have an exclusive representational duty or duty of
fair representation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there a rule or a reg
somewhere in the Labor Department that says if the
national union takes its money from its local, spends it
in a way that has nothing to do with politics
whatsoever, zero -- but either wastes it or they build
too big a building, or they do something that doesn't
benefit Local Number 432, does 432 have any remedy?
MR. COLLINS: There is no Labor Department
regulation.
JUSTICE BREYER: There is no remedy at all.
MR. COLLINS: No, and I --
JUSTICE BREYER: So union members who are
being gypped, they just have to put up with it.
MR. COLLINS: I would say there would be a
breach of covenant of faith and fair dealing under the
affiliation relationship in some of those situations;
and of course if a union used an illegal basis for
determining whether it would provide services to the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. Are you saying you
could bring a lawsuit or not?
MR. COLLINS: You could bring a lawsuit
alleging that the union violated its covenant of good
faith and fair dealing to its affiliates, if the union
acted on the basis of say, race, for example, you could
certainly bring a lawsuit then.
JUSTICE BREYER: So either -- in these cases
everybody in the union whether they're forced or not,
has this kind of remedy or nobody does? That's your --
MR. COLLINS: Right. And the reason for
that is -- what we always have to understand here, is
the interest in seeing to it that a local union that
pays an affiliation fee will receive services in a fair
way from the national is an interest that's shared
equally by the members and the nonmembers. It's not
something that creates a First Amendment concern.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's not
right. Again we have to postulate that we are dealing
with members who don't like unions at all. So while the
members may think this is perfectly fair, the nonmembers
whenever their money is forced to be used for union
activities, it's unfair.
MR. COLLINS: But a -- a member equally with
a nonmember would, Mr. Chief Justice, have the view that
if it's predictable year after year that for some reason
his local doesn't get services from the national union,
the national union sends it elsewhere, that member is
going to be no more happier -- happy than the nonmember.
That's why those things don't happen in the real world.
That's why we certainly don't need a prophylactic rule
and there would certainly be no First Amendment basis
for a prophylactic rule that requires the union to
establish what no union in this country to my knowledge
has, which is either a clear guarantee or specific
standards for providing services.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Collins.
Mr. Young, you have four minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF W. JAMES YOUNG
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. YOUNG: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. I
think it's appropriate to note the apocalyptic
predictions that are suggested from the rule that the
Petitioners are advancing are avoidable by easily --
readily available alternatives. International unions
would of course be free to make loans to local
affiliates engaged in massive litigation or other speech
activities where they think it's appropriate.
But the alternative is not between
prohibiting pooling arrangements which have no
standards, no enforceability and no predictability, and
allowing the nonmembers to become free riders on
legitimate litigation expenditures funded through the
international affiliate. The choice is between a
malleable -- a malleable unpredictable and ultimately
unenforceable agreement and a standard which would allow
the international to subsidize such litigation and allow
the true -- only the costs of that litigation to be
extracted from nonmembers.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the case -- the case
that says that a union member, person forced into the
union agency shop -- and I guess a lawyer who has to pay
to be an integrated bar and I guess a doctor who has to
join a medical association -- the case that says that
these people have a First Amendment right to get back
money that's being wasted, is what?
MR. YOUNG: We don't suggest that there is
such a right, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: So unless it's political in
your view, you don't have that right?
MR. YOUNG: Unfortunately no, Justice
Breyer.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The test is not
whether it's political, is it? It's not a negative
test. It's an affirmative requirement in which the
burden is on the union that they have to show the
expenditure is germane to the particular collective
bargaining agreement?
MR. YOUNG: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice, that's
exactly correct, and -- and the test in determining
whether or not it is a -- can be charged across
bargaining unit lines is a bright-line test of whether
it is a speech activity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, do you have a
response to Justice Kennedy's concern? Do you have a
fallback position or are you also in the all or
nothing --
MR. YOUNG: I'm afraid you've got two
principled advocates before you Mr. Chief Justice who
are holding firm to their positions. I would however
like to address one more point. I think it's
appropriate to recall, get us back again to the focus on
this is compelled speech subject to the Court's strict
scrutiny jurisprudence. The test suggested by MSEA is
that a union's activities are subject to a, subject to
the duty of fair representation and to the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing under the duty of fair
and/or under the duty of fair represent which of course
is that wide range of reasonableness cannot be sustained
where this court's standard is the least restrictive
means. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:08 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
27:8 admissions 4:22 23:11,17,19,21 analogous 36:7 arrangement
54:17 29:9 33:12 34:21 and/or 54:10 33:6 41:5 44:5
advancing 52:6 38:4,23 40:11 4:15 10:25 45:20,23,23
advocates 54:1 52:18 53:15 34:12 40:7,9 arrangements
21:1 48:14 16:23 39:16 answers 40:16 52:12
25:5,11 52:16 air 33:13 34:7 anti-union 32:8
49:3 43:6 50:16 Alaska 33:14,19 apocalyptic 52:4 articulated
45:7 affiliation 4:15 35:3 10:12 asked 16:10
25:11 28:16,17 19:21 20:22 APPEARAN... assess 32:16,23
31:10 32:7,10 44:3 45:16 applied 47:24 44:4
41:4 42:16 allow 46:20 49:9 apply 17:13 32:13
17:18 affirmative 25:19 20:20 associate 15:18
20:24 12:11 53:12 allowing 13:1 approach 47:10 association 53:1
25:17 afford 14:23 14:25 52:14 appropriate assume 38:23
38:21 44:20 all-or-nothing 52:4,10 54:4 assumption
46:21,22 afraid 53:25 6:24 approve 29:19 35:18
52:10 agencies 3:15 alternative 32:21 assurance 43:16
agency 13:1 52:11 area 18:12,15 assuredly 12:18
53:20 38:16 52:24 52:7 areas 13:21 17:19,23 21:22
42:18 28:13 49:10 13:2 15:7,10 argument 1:13 availability
agree 22:9 17:4 18:3,20 5:8 6:24 7:1 available 52:7
5:17,24 8:3 38:3,15 40:7 35:21 44:9 avoidable 52:6
32:18,24 25:25 30:25 40:12 chargeable 6:16 15:13 17:7
38:17 Ben 29:5 called 29:2 18:25 19:3,5 21:8,18 23:2
53:2 54:4 benefit 9:24 calls 41:17 21:24 23:7,10 26:19 27:25
44:22 30:21 33:16 5:19 6:9 8:4 28:18 31:12 35:11 38:20
5:25 better 41:20 29:14,21 33:5 38:25 46:22 27:3,4,6 28:1,9
5:13 big 34:8 49:24 44:23 47:6 charges 32:10 34:23 35:22
6:5 binds 23:6 48:21 52:22,22 chargibility 36:6,15,23
7:18 bishops 19:18 53:1 54:15,16 26:21 37:7,14,16,18
14:19 bit 40:25 cases 7:18 12:5 charging 21:17 37:24 38:14
16:10,13 Blackmun 7:6 12:25 15:24 24:10 49:9,11 39:22 40:16
breach 50:8 16:12 17:11 charitable 31:8 41:3,21 42:13
21:2,8,18 breakdown 18:3 19:13 Chief 3:3,8 8:20 44:8 45:5,10
22:5,6 40:21 20:24,25 42:10 9:7,18 10:4,7 46:2,19 47:17
Breyer 16:2,4,5 42:20 50:19 10:10,13 11:1 47:20 50:1,4,7
24:9 18:1,24 19:2 categorical 3:19 11:10,16 22:25 50:14,22 51:10
26:19 19:12,17 20:4 5:6 23:8,12,16,24 51:24
24:14,25 49:19 cause 7:9 27:1,2,6,19 colloquy 20:20
50:3,5,12,19 causes 43:8 28:1,5,23 30:4 come 8:5 12:12
33:12 52:22 53:5,6,9 celebration 33:10,24 34:5 comes 35:20
35:12 brief 4:23 7:21 25:16,23,24 34:19 36:10,15 46:17
47:1 7:22 9:9 29:10 central 18:9 36:18 38:8 commemorate
53:15 30:9 certain 19:11,23 40:5,17,24 18:13
briefs 5:9 30:15 31:2 45:1,8 51:4,11 commemorati...
bright-line 12:3 certainly 5:5 53:10,16,21 commendable
44:15 bring 50:13,14 15:17 17:24 choice 52:16 comments 20:18
50:18 20:24 28:11 choices 44:10 communicatio...
50:10,17 broad 44:23 43:2 50:18 circumstances company 14:9
build 49:23 51:17,18 16:16 34:8
3:7 10:17 14:4 changes 44:1 48:7 51:21 20:23,25 21:1
27:5 charge 21:15 clearer 48:25 29:4 42:5,7,10
contribute 4:4 50:8,15 54:8 49:20 50:1 35:1 39:13
21:14 46:15 create 36:24 describe 39:21 dissident 35:11
32:14 contributing 39:6 described 27:8 39:11,19
53:22 1:7 creating 36:1 30:17 13:4,21,22
43:15 45:13 criterion 12:15 26:6 22:24 23:1
35:22 36:6,23 customs 30:15 45:1,22 distinguish
counsel 27:2 D 50:11 53:17 doing 18:11
34:7,15 country 31:16 DANIEL 1:3 differ 11:5 doles 42:19
43:23 51:20 deal 36:2 difference 22:11 downtown 25:3
17:13 25:10,18 50:8,16 51:5 19:8 23:3,4,22 draw 21:4 22:24
3:20 4:17 5:6,9 decide 27:22 differing 11:17 26:3
12:2,24 17:17 decided 26:17 difficulties 47:9 24:5 26:10
7:4,10 29:11,18,20,22 33:4 direct 31:5 dues 18:5,22
12:13 29:23 30:17,18 decisionmaking directed 26:24 20:23,25 42:6
38:18 40:18 defend 8:5 12:12 disconnect 8:21 48:12,24 49:3
13:25 courts 3:14 defense 4:20 discussed 6:16 49:17,17 54:8
14:17 12:5 21:25 48:8 17:17
24:7 26:6 54:5 degree 37:22 discussion 24:2 E
30:14 covenant 36:1,4 demanded 39:4 dispute 21:16,19 earlier 17:11
36:11,13,16 demands 4:19 21:20 23:11,15 easily 52:6
entirely 42:8 34:17 47:22 fallback 53:23 12:24 20:1
25:17 51:2,10 expensive 31:17 fault 18:2 22:3,23 24:11
29:2 ESQ 1:16,18 2:3 experience 9:16 fee 9:11 13:15 25:2 26:2
46:4,19 2:5,8 9:20 14:6,7 28:17 31:4,10 found 12:3
47:13,19 essence 29:23 16:14 31:19 32:7,10 17:18,23 24:3
50:19 35:24 expertise 27:16 32:17 33:7 33:3,3
essentially 4:3 27:18 46:9 38:24 39:20 Foundation
ET 1:3,7 expressed 39:7 39:3 41:7 9:9
7:3,9 12:3 everybody 11:2 expressive 3:12 42:17 44:4 four 51:25
16:17 18:22 50:20 extended 9:3 fight 34:8 Fourteenth 3:11
19:10 evidence 30:16 extent 31:10 figure 41:2 frankly 9:13
23:25 ex 26:25 extra 33:14 filed 7:22 free 17:10,11,14
exactly 13:17 extracted 52:21 finance 28:13 17:15 28:3,7,9
27:11 53:17 34:1 20:1 fulfilled 17:8
example 13:15 extremely 31:20 finding 30:1 function 49:4
26:17,24 31:6 36:19 F Finish 16:5 funded 52:15
46:25 50:17 fact 4:11,23 7:18 firm 54:2 funding 46:22
35:14 exchange 4:4 44:24 18:3,20,23 future 31:21
exclude 24:13 facts 11:1,8 27:13 29:9,10
6:18,19 49:5,7 36:8,16 37:11 34:13 36:24 G 3:1
30:3 46:4 Excuse 15:15 42:4,9 49:18 40:15,17 43:14 24:16 25:12,13
35:3 exists 14:12 41:8 51:7 54:8,9,9 51:18 53:2 general's 28:24
expect 39:19 54:10 fit 5:9 15:18 genuine 8:15
6:1 21:17 39:11,15 36:3 40:4,8,14 focus 54:4 28:6,13,14
22:8,20 expenditure fairness 44:15 follow 26:3 34:20,24,25
21:20 27:9 fall 6:23 16:17 27:21 39:10 48:11 49:1,2
32:18,24 47:7 36:24 38:15 36:12 10:18
35:8 guess 4:17 20:5 41:21 44:8 individuals involve 5:23
42:6,14 28:24 52:24,25 hostile 9:3 38:20 16:18 23:22
6:2 gypped 50:6 40:18 43:16 infringement involved 5:20
21:3,14 human 20:5,6 13:1 40:6 8:4 15:23 17:2
30:18 H hurt 18:13 infringements 31:17,24 35:5
41:14 hand 11:19 hypothesis 12:9 40:15 36:14 43:3
43:2 51:16 25:15 26:8 34:13 23:10
happens 23:22 insult 8:7 issue 19:1 29:14
27:17,20 27:22 51:15 identify 38:11 8:15 9:2,10,13 issued 8:16
33:8 harm 14:24 15:5 illegal 50:10 9:21,22,23,25 issues 25:3
15:8,14 impact 46:11 10:17,24 11:18
10:18 25:6 important 33:3 36:19,19 39:7 JEREMIAH
17:1 Hawaiian 24:23 41:19 44:19,20 insureds 9:16 1:18 2:5 27:4
30:5 24:24 impose 40:9 insurer 7:25 join 46:18 53:1
41:19 headquarters 44:6 8:12,16 10:21 Judge 46:10
43:20 18:10 25:3 imposes 22:6 integrated 52:25 judgments 43:3
46:21 49:14 improper 42:19 interest 4:5,6 judicial 17:20
51:15 hear 3:3 26:20 inadequacy 6:12 25:7 50:24 jump 20:19
36:1,16 47:18 46:23 interested 8:9 24:7 54:6
43:24 held 3:20 33:25 included 11:8 20:17 Justice 3:3,8 4:1
50:15 48:11 includes 35:17 interests 35:5 4:9,10,14,16
help 10:3,10 37:4 49:13,14 49:9 4:22 5:1,4,10
49:2,9 history 8:24 income 46:17 29:25 31:18,21 7:21 8:2,9,12
42:14 33:17 45:14 indicate 48:19 inure 30:21 11:1,4,7,10,13
holidays 14:20 indicated 47:5 inurement 11:16,16,21,24
43:21 Honor 32:19 indication 30:20 invalid 45:18 13:3,11,22
53:22 25:5 26:9 38:11 39:1,4 majority 26:14
kind 4:3 18:15 28:10,11,20 39:12 41:16,18 making 22:8
21:6 29:16 29:14,16,18 45:9 46:1,24 38:19 41:7
18:1,24 37:10 39:12 30:3,7,9,9,19 48:19 49:14 malleable 47:14
44:19 50:21 31:9 32:5,5,6 52:9,15,19,20 52:17,17
kinds 27:8 31:2 32:20 33:2,3,5 little 40:25 Marbury 22:14
21:3,13 46:4 33:17,20,25 live 47:1 market 10:22
know 4:16,18 34:11,13 35:8 loans 52:8 14:12
5:25 8:23 9:13 35:23 41:5 lobbying 17:18 Marshall 22:14
10:22 14:3,8 43:10 45:6,8 26:7 massive 52:9
25:6 19:13,14 20:10 45:14,15 47:5 local 4:19 9:19 matter 1:12 5:12
23:18 26:17 47:25 48:6,12 13:14 19:8 18:11 37:12
38:12 39:20 48:16,18,21 26:17 27:14 38:9 45:2
40:20,21 47:14 Lehnert's 25:13 28:12 30:2,21 54:17
30:4 knowledge 20:6 32:4 31:3,22,23,23 matters 26:13
51:20 let's 8:23 16:22 32:11,16 33:14 27:17
32:14,22knows 9:24 31:15 36:8 33:18 36:9 mean 6:3 8:22
34:5 46:25 38:23 39:1 37:3 38:5,24 10:16 11:21
35:6 41:1 39:5,8 40:2 21:7 24:12
L librarian 18:10 41:8,15 42:25 30:19 34:1
45:22 20:13 24:13,15 43:17 44:1,10 meaning 7:12
38:7,8 labor 3:21 6:22 24:23 25:2,6 44:20 46:8 21:9
40:5,17 7:23,24 14:4,6 25:15,22,25 48:5 49:21,25 meaningful
41:14 14:10,10,11 light 41:20 50:24 51:13 44:13,25 45:21
43:3,9 15:20 21:11 line 14:24 21:5 52:8 46:4
45:1,8,16 49:20 50:1 24:1 26:3 locals 9:21,23,23 means 49:6
47:8 laid 44:22 lines 53:19 10:18,21 16:11 54:13
48:6 language 6:11 list 44:24 16:13 29:24 meant 30:24
50:3,5 larger 13:24 litigation 3:14 31:6,16,18 33:24
51:4 Laughter 10:8 3:22,23 4:20 33:7 39:17 measured 28:17
52:3 11:12 5:11,12,20,23 44:15 medical 53:1
53:5,6,8law 22:6 45:2 6:25 7:13 8:6 local's 28:20 member 18:8
19:5 8:25 9:3 12:12 42:16 47:4 20:11 51:10,14
50:13,14,18 13:16,20,25 Locke 1:3 3:4 52:23
15:5,8 19:4 43:25 32:18 33:15,21 lot 24:19 42:1 membership
16:21 45:14 52:15 33:22 34:1,4 43:2 29:21 30:22
25:14 Lehnert 7:5,6 34:12,23,24 lots 18:11 membership-...
47:8,18 17:24 18:24 35:4,13,16,19 Lynch 46:10 33:6
19:10 21:6 36:14 37:3,13 mentioned 26:2
27:12
33:3,4 35:13 52:21 22:18,19 32:25
28:17
47:2,4
needed 32:12 52:4 opinion 6:4 7:8
44:1 46:24 notifies 14:21 48:6,6 31:4,7 42:7,10
18:6 25:8 34:14 number 16:12 27:4 people 18:12,13
40:22 negotiated 35:3 23:18 43:8 order 15:12,12
28:6
47:4 negotiates 45:12 49:25 49:12 42:1 46:12,17
51:8 negotiating organization 53:2
22:11,19 34:21 O 30:23 percent 19:25
40:20
13:5,8 28:3 49:4 Pacific 7:22 9:8 51:7
27:13 Nome 33:14,19 objectives 42:9 6:21 49:16
28:19 38:1 objects 17:7,7 38:10 39:16 permitted 22:16
32:9 nonchargeable obligation 8:4 part 8:5 18:1 person 19:7 42:5
36:2 22:1 12:1,9,11,17 20:15 31:3 52:23
40:3 nonmember 13:5,9 35:16 34:16,18 persuasive
24:22 28:22 35:19 36:20 participating 16:24 17:21
39:4 41:11 37:6,9,10,20 25:16 petition 29:12
43:5,19 45:13 49:4 37:22 38:13,15 particular 8:22 petitioners 1:4
46:6,15 51:11,15 39:18,21,23 8:23 18:8,15 1:17 2:4,9 3:7
49:21 nonmembers obligations 4:24 18:19 23:3,6 29:9,18 30:9
3:21 6:24 21:1 obviously 7:15 23:12,14,23 34:24 48:24
19:16 26:22 27:11 28:15 47:14 40:22 42:25 Petitioner's 47:9
42:21 28:4 32:1 36:9 occur 22:22 43:17 53:14 48:16
46:6 40:2 42:23 occurred 43:7 party 14:24 piling 41:7
39:12 19:25 priorities 41:25 12:4,6,7 14:18 51:16
possible 43:6,8 program 18:13 32:3 50:22 51:12
10:14 possibly 36:14 prohibit 18:23 putting 41:7 reasonableness
13:6,12 43:9 45:4,21 prohibited 25:8 p.m 54:16 54:11
16:7 post 29:13 prohibiting reasoning 19:14
20:21 postulate 51:5 52:12 Q 20:4,16
22:17 potential 31:12 prohibits 18:20 question 3:17 reasons 32:20
37:13 42:15 promote 15:12 4:9,15 9:7,19 REBUTTAL
39:17 practice 21:11 prongs 48:11 10:12 11:5,9 2:7 52:1
54:3 39:8 properly 41:22 27:13 28:1 recall 54:4
11:3 predictability 11:3 quite 10:23 14:9 reconsidering
52:13 proposition 16:21 36:7,18 48:21
19:16,22 51:12 protect 15:13 quoting 5:18,19 14:15 29:25
24:11 predictions 52:5 42:1 6:3 43:22
premise 9:6 13:4 protects 15:18 refer 39:9
premiums 7:17 34:12 39:5 R 3:1 6:17,19 24:25
8:22 9:2 13:19 40:22 41:8 race 50:17 29:20 31:2
31:11 33:2 43:22 50:11 Railway 3:21 refuses 17:16
45:12 48:3,13 provided 40:1 6:22 reg 49:19
48:9 pressing 44:21 47:23 29:11,11,13,15 17:24,25 30:5
21:6 7:25 35:12 43:16 47:6 range 29:19 regarding 26:12
29:19 presumptive providing 31:10 54:11 regardless 37:21
44:5,7 21:24 51:22 rate 9:10,12 regulation 50:2
prevent 15:6 provision 14:19 13:9,12 36:24 rejected 5:6
47:24 principal 7:4 33:11,19 34:6 rates 10:22 14:5 relate 6:8 27:24
principled 33:22 45:13 rationale 17:10 related 22:3,4
54:1 pro-ration 32:4 24:8 27:17
26:7 resisting 44:6 51:4,23 53:10 36:14 48:1,5,6 situation 23:20
12:24 28:15 31:11 role 49:12,13 service 13:15 33:11 38:1,22
28:16 32:12 46:9,23 rule 5:7 7:10 30:20 40:23 48:25
30:14 respect 14:6 16:17 27:10 services 17:16 situations 50:9
35:25 23:21 38:6 36:25 43:14,16 17:17 27:12,15 solace 28:24
respectfully 4:8 49:19 51:17,19 29:25 31:12,13 29:8
28:15 1:19 2:6 27:5 41:12 42:11,14 solicitor 29:17
response 53:22 S 42:15 43:1,11 solid 6:9
responsible satisfied 47:21 47:22,23 50:11 solve 29:16
restrictive 54:12 saying 6:2 22:18 set 5:6 12:3 14:5 sorry 10:1,4
rethink 25:1 50:12 36:25 sort 39:15 47:10
39:24 32:25 34:7,8,13,13 39:11 7:16,21 8:2,9
54:8 ride 28:3,10 40:19 43:15 shared 51:1 8:13,14,19
17:14,15 53:1 sheep 13:7 13:3,11,23
riding 28:8,9 4:14,16,22 7:8 shop 13:1 17:10 26:6,16,23
49:5,8 right 12:17 9:15,18 10:2,6 18:5 52:24 35:6 36:4 37:1
17:4 18:3 42:3 46:13 53:13 37:19 38:7
17:15 37:15 40:9,11 scrutiny 24:7 side 24:17 47:12 special 32:2,13
31:7 43:9 49:3 54:6 47:13,19 specific 6:11
50:12,22 51:5 second 29:12 sides 24:19 14:9 16:18
38:3 rights 13:2 see 5:9 14:24 26:2 37:4 48:18 51:21
45:3 15:13 40:7,15 15:14 17:6 similar 36:21 specifically 3:14
rise 9:2 22:17 42:20 simply 19:22 7:7
34:7 10:5 11:10 seeing 50:24 29:3,20 38:4 speech 3:13 12:6
22:25 23:12,16 seek 15:25 38:23 40:13,19 12:6 13:20,20
34:19 36:10,18 sense 13:9 39:24 sir 14:15 16:7 22:3 24:8,10
25:1 submission sustain 49:6 thing 6:7 7:23 treatise 32:8
52:9 47:25 sustained 54:11 18:23 22:8 treatment 44:16
54:5 submissions swear 19:18 28:10 41:22,23 trouble 38:7
32:15,23 17:16 19:23 taken 13:14 15:8 16:11,16 two 16:12,22
39:15 20:12 28:22 takes 20:7 49:21 20:21 21:24,25 25:14,15 32:20
44:15 31:21 52:19 talk 32:12 22:13 24:1,4 40:16 44:10
47:13 subsidized talked 29:23 24:15,24 25:1 46:2 48:11
54:12 13:15 talking 12:6 25:5,12 26:5 53:25
44:6,13 4:11 21:7 25:10 32:19,20 33:25 34:1 41:5
51:22 such-and-such 27:20 39:15 34:10 36:10,12 typical 32:7 33:5
41:16 40:5 42:22 39:22 41:16 33:7 41:4
suggested 52:5 teacher's 26:9 thinks 33:12 30:21 52:17
suggesting tell 19:12 25:14 thor 28:24 36:8 43:17
49:3 support 16:10 42:19,23 thousand 36:12 23:20
11:4 36:5,11,13 47:24 48:1,2,4 29:9 31:20 18:2,2 21:4
37:2,3,13,21 48:8,12,16,21 times 6:20 26:1 22:7 24:21
20:17,20 37:22 38:10,12 48:24 49:1,2,3 totally 18:17 39:14 40:8
38:20,21 46:21 53:10,12,17,19 19:6 41:6 44:5
supported 3:18 54:6 tote 28:18 50:23
26:3 34:19 they'd 25:18 treating 42:25 52:18
43:19 44:2,14 various 32:8,10 54:11 07-610 1:5 3:4
union's 3:12 vehicle 41:17 wishes 46:16 1
49:3 54:7 51:11 53:7 works 13:1
6:20 7:18 8:6 violated 50:15 51:16 20 9:1
7:12,23 16:19 21:14 virtual 43:24 22:16 44:24 27 2:6
8:4 12:10 23:3,6,13,14 virtue 30:22 wrong 6:3
13:15,21 23:22,23 27:21 voice 26:9 3
14:10,18 28:2,6,14,20 X 3 2:4
15:4 28:25 33:25 W x 1:2,8
16:9 34:16,22,25
17:1,2,3 35:5,17,20 52:1 Y 4,000 18:10
18:5,6,9 36:20 37:3 wait 41:19 year 38:25 39:2 42 19:18
47:22 53:19 want 6:23 14:16 39:2,13,13 432 49:25,25
20:12,15 United 1:1,13 15:1 19:12,13 40:20,21 41:1 453 5:19
21:1,15 units 21:21 19:14,23 20:12 51:12,12
23:3 23:18 28:19,22 24:13 27:23
35:23 year's 40:19 50 44:17,24
26:12,17 34:17 36:3,12 52 2:9
29:20 37:5 39:20 41:12,18 Young 1:16 2:3
31:3,7 unity 40:2 42:2 46:18 2:8 3:5,6,8 4:8
unit's 3:24 5:24 wants 15:11 4:13,21 5:3,10
6:6,10 6 1:10
33:4,9 28:7 28:2 46:15
34:7,13 unpredictable Washington 1:9 7:2,14,20 8:7 9
52:17 1:18 25:3,4 8:11,18 9:5,17 99.999 19:25
37:18 unrealistic wasn't 4:17 31:7 10:1,4,9,20
39:5 45:18 wasted 53:3 11:4,15,23
41:4 unrelated 21:8 wastes 49:23 12:14,18,22
unspoken 35:7,9 way 18:6 33:21 13:8,22 14:8
unusual 16:15 33:22 37:24 14:14 15:3,7
unwilling 15:25 42:19,20 44:14 15:15 16:4,7
45:6,12 uprising 18:14 44:25 45:19,23 17:5,9 18:24
use 15:1,12 46:14 49:5,22 19:9,15 20:3
49:10,12 40:19 46:14 51:1 20:19 21:13
50:5 47:16 went 38:25 22:13 23:8,14
uses 18:6 we'll 40:7,13,20 23:24 24:15,19
51:8,13 usual 40:14 41:1 44:17,18 24:24 25:9,18
we're 12:6 14:21 25:24 26:5,23
53:13 V 21:7 22:18,20 28:11 51:25
20:13,14 Va 1:16 41:23
27:23 vacuum 32:6
32:11
