IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CARLOS JIMENEZ, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-6984
NATHANIEL QUARTERMAN, :
DIRECTOR, TEXAS :
DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL :
JUSTICE, CORRECTIONAL :
INSTITUTIONS DIVISION. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 4, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 12:59 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Petitioner.
SEAN D. JORDAN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Austin,
Tex.; on behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
SEAN D. JORDAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(12:59 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 07-6984, Jimenez v. Quarterman.
Mr. Goldstein.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
When the Texas courts in this case
reinstated the Petitioner's direct appeal, the Texas
Court of Appeals decided that appeal like it would
decide any other case on direct review. We filed a
petition for discretionary review in the Texas Court of
Criminal Appeals, which was denied, and it was
considered like any other appeal would be.
The question presented by this case is
whether the final judgment that indisputably results
from those rulings triggers the one-year statute of
limitations to file a Federal habeas corpus application.
The statute that governs that question is reproduced in
the blue brief at page 1.
Section 2244(d)(1)(A) prescribes "a 1-year
period of limitation that shall apply to an application
for a writ of habeas corpus by a person in custody
pursuant to the judgment of the State court. The
limitation period shall run from the latest of -- and it
identifies four dates, the first of which is "the date
on which the judgment became final by the conclusion of
direct review or the expiration of time for seeking such
review."
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you don't think you
need to go beyond (A) to resolve the case?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's right, Justice
Kennedy. Subsection (A) resolves this case by its plain
terms.
Now, the Fifth Circuit decided this case --
this issue, I'm sorry -- in 2004 in a case called
Salinas, and it thought that the factual scenario of the
case was more logically covered by subsection (d)(2) of
the statute, which is on page 2 of the blue brief. And
that provision is the tolling provision, and it says:
"The time during which a properly filed application for
State post-conviction or other collateral review with
respect to the pertinent judgment or claim is pending
shall not be counted toward any period of limitation
under the subsection."
And the Fifth Circuit's view in that Salinas
case was that the better way of looking at this is that
when the State post-conviction court awarded relief of
further direct review, all of that should be regarded as
part of the post-conviction process. But four years
after -- three years after the Fifth Circuit decided
Salinas, this Court decided Lawrence v. Florida, and
Lawrence disposes of the Fifth Circuit's logic in
Salinas, because Lawrence says that when the
post-conviction court, here the Texas Court of Criminal
Appeals, issues its mandate the application for
post-conviction review is no longer pending. And so
there isn't any reason to believe that Congress thought
this factual scenario was covered by the tolling
provisions of (d)(2).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, does your
position depend upon the proposition that we are not
free to consider sort of a second direct appeal as part
of the collateral review process?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It doesn't depend on it,
Mr. Chief Justice. We don't have to reach that question
because, as I have said in answer to Justice Kennedy's
question, you can resolve this under (d)(1). But I was
just trying to explain why the Fifth Circuit, which
struggled with how to handle this scenario, was wrong in
thinking it was governed by the tolling provision.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess it
doesn't -- or does it really make a difference? I mean,
if you view the direct appeal that is the result of the
collateral review process as part of the collateral
review process, that time is tolled. And if you take
your view and regard it as not final to trigger the
process until you have another final decision, it kind
of leads to the same result, doesn't it?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: In many cases, but not all,
including this one. The difference is that if you
regard this as governed by tolling, that the second --
what we will call for purposes of the argument, just so
we know, the second appeal, so the appeal that's granted
by the post-conviction report, if you regard the proper
way of reading 2244 to be you have to regard that as
being tolled and the start date is the dismissal of the
original appeal, if the State Petitioner seeks
post-conviction review more than one year after the
dismissal of the first appeal, his Federal time is done.
So, this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But does that really
matter? I mean, the whole purpose of the Federal
statute of limitations is to make sure these things get
done within one year. And if he waits a year before
filing, then he's out of time under AEDPA.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It is -- it is the case that
Congress wanted it done within one year. The question
presented by this case is one year of what?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: So, there are four different
possible start dates. We know that the Fifth Circuit
was wrong in the Salinas case when it said that Congress
envisioned only a linear time period stopped only by
tolling that would run from the first disposition of the
case, because 2244(d)(1)(B), (C), and (D) are all
provisions under which the time can expire and then be
restarted.
So, what we think Congress wanted when it
was picking start dates and the start date in (d)(1)(A),
the one that usually applies, is it wanted the State
courts on direct review to be done with the case, finish
it off. Then the State petitioner will have one year to
start the State post-conviction process and when that's
done go on to Federal court.
The reason we think Congress wanted to
include the second appeal, the conclusion of the second
appeal, as the trigger is that what's going on in the
Federal district court is you are trying to decide if
the State court's disposition of the case is contrary to
clearly established law as established by this Court.
And you won't know that, you won't even know what the
Federal district court is supposed to be reviewing,
until the conclusion of the second appeal.
If I could just illustrate that, in the
joint appendix at page 43, is the State court opinion in
this case. The Texas Court of Appeals decided this case
and resolved his, the Petitioner's, Federal
constitutional claims. And it only did that in the
second appeal. And that's what Congress was concerned
with the Federal district court's reviewing. It's --
when this opinion is issued and then the Texas Court of
Criminal Appeals, which is their highest court in
criminal cases, denies review, then it's logical for the
time period to start.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In the background of this
case, Mr. Goldstein, is that in fact he didn't know the
first time that his appeal had been dismissed. He
didn't know that his lawyer had filed an Anders brief.
But when he found that out, he waited some four and a
half years.
So why isn't the -- Texas right
when it says look at (B) and (D), they would have fit
his case? He could have used those to get time starting
from the date that he found out. It wouldn't give him
four and a half years. But why -- you say we, all we
have to consider is (A); you said that in answer to
Justice Kennedy. But why shouldn't we say that either
(B) or (D) fits his case?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay, can I answer that
question, Justice Ginsburg, in two parts?
First most directly, I want to explain our
position with respect to (B) and (D) and then I want to
discuss the broad thematic concern that's raised by our
case. Here's the troubling fact by our case, and that
is the prospect that multiple State defendants will take
more than a year, and I would like to deal with that
thematic point and explain why I don't think that's a
concern.
But to start directly with your point, (B)
and (D), assuming that they apply for a moment, will
only accomplish the following -- and then I want to
explain why I don't think they would apply. But even if
they apply, what they would do is defer the start date
of the one year. So on the facts in this case, one year
after -- 11 months or so after the Texas Court of
Appeals erroneously dismissed the Petitioner's first
direct appeal without giving him the opportunity to file
a pro se brief, he found out.
On the State's view, the one-year Federal
habeas corpus time would be deferred for 11 months, and
that is a very generous defendant-favoring position for
Texas to take in this Court. If it then starts, it
doesn't -- that reading does not accomplish what
Congress wanted in 2244, because the State prisoner,
though the time will have been deferred for a year, will
still have to file for Federal habeas corpus within a
year, notwithstanding the fact that he will get a second
direct appeal.
So he will be proceeding in both courts.
His start date will have been deferred for 11 months,
but he nonetheless one year later must appear in a
Federal district court in Texas, even though on
post-conviction review in the State courts he is sent
back to direct review.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, but is that
right? I mean unless you count, as I gather your
friends on the other side would do, the period of direct
appeal as part of the collateral review process?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's correct. And that's
the argument about Lawrence. That argument is not
sustainable in light of Lawrence. Just to say that you
have their argument exactly right, Mr. Chief Justice,
the State's position is, as the Fifth Circuit held in
the Salinas case, that when you get relief on
post-conviction review and you are sent back to the
State system, (d)(2) continues to apply, but that is not
correct. The tolling stops, and that is because, as
Lawrence held, the application which is his
post-conviction application in the State court, saying
that I was deprived of my right to appeal, is no longer
pending. The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals has issued
its mandate. So that's why this anomaly arises under
the application of (B) or (D) that we don't think
Congress could have intended.
Now, Justice Ginsburg, there is a second
part to my answer, and that is the specific point about
whether (B) and (D) do by their terms apply; and here we
are in the anomalous position that if, again, Texas is
arguing very defendant-favoring readings of (B) and (D)
and I, representing the habeas Petitioner, am in the
unusual role of questioning whether these later start
dates apply.
But here our -- the lower courts I think it
is clear would say that (B) and (D) don't apply. To
take you to the textual -- the text of the statute,
again, (B) appears at the bottom of page 1 of the blue
brief; and that has a start date of the date on which
the impediment for filing an application created by
State action in violation of the Constitution or laws of
the United States is removed, if the applicant was
prevented from filing by such State action. And the
lower courts, as we explained in our brief, pretty
uniformly conclude that the failure to give a defendant
notice that his appeal has been dismissed is not an
impediment created by State action to him filing a
Federal habeas corpus application. And so their attempt
to grapple with our unusual facts has -- would
substantially broaden the application of subsection (B).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about the State
convicting, penalizing the defendant despite the fact
that his constitutional right to competent counsel
was -- he lost that right because of the failure of
notification?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It's just -- it's not
regarded as an impediment. The -- the courts -- the
lower courts take quite literally that there has to be
an impediment. The lower court decisions grappling with
what an impediment is deal with the situation where a
prison warden, for example, does not allow you access to
the prison mails or somehow access to the legal
resources you in order to be able to file it. He won't
deliver the habeas corpus application.
(D) is even easier, I think, and that is the
deadline starts from the date on which the factual
predicate of the claim or claims presented could have
been discovered through the exercise of due diligence.
And the reason the State is not right about that
provision and does not even really seriously argue it is
that the claims referenced in (D) are the claims that
are presented in the Federal habeas corpus application.
Here that's the claim that he had ineffective assistance
of trial counsel and that the judge was biased against
him. They are not the claim that he received -- that he
was denied the right to an appeal. And so it just --
there is no textual basis to say that the later start
date would apply under (D).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is this just a
dispute about the label? Because Texas chooses to call
the proceeding that you get if you are successful on
collateral review a second direct appeal, you would
count finality one way; if they just switch the label
and say that is the collateral review appeal process,
then you would agree with them?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, sir. We think that you
have to look at substance. As -- the language that we
use in a footnote in our reply brief addressing this is
whether the proceeding has the hallmarks of direct
review. There are two States that do have a procedure,
South Carolina and Delaware, in which you can raise your
claim on post-conviction review that you were deprived
of your right to a direct appeal. And the
post-conviction court has the power to decide that on
post-conviction review.
We haven't found a case in which they actual
exercised the power, but it appears that 48 of the 50
States deal with this problem the way Texas does, and
that is the relief that you get is that you are sent
back into the direct review system. And then we think
it's covered quite plainly by the text of (d)(1). When
that direct review is over, direct review concludes by
its plain terms.
Now, Justice Ginsburg, I had said that I
wanted to come back and deal with the thematic problem
that might concern the Court about our case, and that is
the prospect that we will have defendants filing State
post-conviction applications more than a year late,
which could trouble the Court. As the Chief Justice
indicated, Congress had a concern with moving this
process along.
In addition just to the plain text of the
statute which we think is controlling, there are I think
three points. The first is there are State limitations
principles that get these State prisoners to file their
applications in a timely way. Now, in the great
majority of States that's set by a number of years. In
some States like Texas it's applied by the principle of
laches. And the important point and the reason we are
here today is that Texas, for whatever reason -- and the
time limitations are intended to protect Texas here --
decided not to assert that his State post-conviction
application was untimely. It didn't object to the
granting of relief to the Petitioner at all.
The second reason, in addition to the
State's own limitations period, is that the AEDPA
one-year limitations period has real force. In the
great majority of cases in which a State defendant is
going to allege that he was deprived of his right to an
appeal and raise that claim on State post-conviction
review, he's going to lose that claim. The -- the
States don't give this stuff out like candy, and the
Texas Court of Criminal Appeals is not, you know,
constantly reinstating defendant's appeals. And
defendants know that.
And unless you prevail on this claim, you
are stuck with the one-year AEDPA time that runs from
the dismissal of your first appeal. And so you have
every incentive in the world to get into State court
quickly.
And the third is just the general notion
that defendants in non-capital cases don't have a real
incentive to just delay before instituting a State
post-conviction review. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose it is denied by --
by the State court. And suppose it's denied by the
State court more -- more than a year after the
conclusion of the original proceeding. What -- what is
the consequence then?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I -- can I just ask one
point of clarification? If he instituted it more than a
year after the dismissal of the first proceeding, he is
out of time, because there is only one final judgment,
and that is the original dismissal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose he institutes it,
however, within the year.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. If he instituted
it -- can I just say six months? So six months' after
the first dismissal, the Petitioner appears in the Texas
post-conviction court. At that point (d)(2) starts to
apply, because he has a properly filed application for
State post-conviction relief. The State court -- the
State post-conviction court takes three months to
dispose of it, a year to dispose of it; it doesn't
matter. When the State post-conviction court is done
and in your hypothetical denies him relief, he has six
months left to go to federal district court. (d)(2)
operates as it should. While the case is sitting in the
State post-conviction court --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And he can't go to Federal
court until that is resolved?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is correct, because he
has not exhausted his claim. When the claim is that you
were denied your right to a direct appeal, the only
place that you can raise that claim is State
post-conviction review. Federal habeas corpus requires
you to exhaust your available State remedies. Your
available State remedy for that is State post-conviction
review. He may not appear in Federal district court.
The district court I think would abuse its discretion in
staying a plainly unexhausted claim. That wouldn't be
good cause, as this Court has said, for it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you do prevail, it is
rather dramatic, because your client was stunningly
negligent. He does nothing for four and-a-half years,
then strolls over to the State court.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Justice Kennedy, the
State, as I said, did not raise this argument in the
place where we think it's appropriate, and that no
record was built on laches. It does -- it does have
that feel.
I do think that the Court's opinion could
make clear that this anomaly arises from the fact that,
despite the fact that the Texas courts have made clear
that there are laches principles and limitations --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask if laches is
something that the Texas court could bring up on its
own, or is it for the State to raise or not as it
chooses?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It is for the State to
raise, and we cite our Texas authority for that in our
reply brief, Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is the State statute that
allows the early conviction to be set aside and the
appeal reinstated -- do we have that statute?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, that is
section 11 -- article 11.07.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought I had it. Do we
have it in --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I do not believe you do.
And the reason is that article 11.07 is just the general
Texas post-conviction regime. The procedure that is
used for reinstating direct appeals is developed through
caselaw, not by statute.
Justice Scalia, there was a final point that
I was about to make when I said, look, defendants in
non-capital cases have every incentive, if they want to
get relief, to move their cases along. The Court may be
concerned about capital cases where there is the
opposite concern, that defendants will try and keep
their cases alive, if you will. And Texas recognizes
this point and has a deadline by statute that is quite
short for instituting post-conviction relief in capital
cases.
They simply recognize that laches is the way
to handle the prospect of delay in non-capital cases.
We don't think there is any reason for this Court to
override that determination, to second guess the
judgment of the Texas court that the judgment is not
final until the reinstated appeal concludes.
JUSTICE BREYER: What happens -- just out of
curiosity, a prisoner's lawyer doesn't take the appeal,
the time expires, bong, the year begins to run. Within
that year he files federal habeas. Then he discovers
that he had a right to a state appeal. So he goes, just
like this man, goes back and, sure enough, he gets his
direct appeal, and three years later or a year later
they finish the direct appeal. Bong, he can file again.
Is that his first habeas or his second
habeas?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I have to ask one question,
sir, because the answer is it depends.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The question is, when he
files for Federal habeas corpus the first time in your
hypothetical, I take it he doesn't raise the claim --
JUSTICE BREYER: No.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: He raises a substantive
claim, like the judge was biased against him and the
like?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is regarded as a first
habeas application, because the claim did not -- I think
the judgment did not arise until later. I don't believe
a case like that has arisen. I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: I doubt that one -- I mean,
one may never arise but --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The strange thing is that it
is an exhausted set of claims. So it is a proper
Federal habeas corpus application, because he went to --
JUSTICE BREYER: The first one is proper and
on your view so is the second one proper. So they are
both proper, and there are two of them. And --
MR. GOLDSTEIN: It's proper in terms of it
being exhausted. It would be dismissed, to be clear.
So his appeal was denied, right? He doesn't file an
appeal in the hypothetical. So when he shows up in
Federal district court, it's an exhausted -- it is -- he
would be dismissed for failure to exhaust, in fact,
because he didn't pursue his --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, nobody knows about
this.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: But he -- but he was --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but nobody knows that
the State made a mistake in not giving him a direct
review.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Your hypothetical, Justice
Breyer, I took it to be --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, forget my hypothetical.
They're never going to come up.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I think, though, I can tell
you this with some confidence. The way that this thing
happened in Texas is the way that it happens in the
States, and the way it happens in Federal courts as well
under 2255. You file a post-conviction application.
You say: I was denied entirely my right of appeal by
something the court did or something my lawyer did, and
then you get to pursue your appeal.
And that's what Congress wanted the Federal
district court on habeas corpus to review. So
logically, the one year begins to run after that's done.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, except that
you kind of elide the point that Congress and AEDPA
quite clearly wanted these federal claims to be brought
within a year. This seems to allow the State processes
to trump the one-year requirement.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, in many cases,
Mr. Chief Justice, of course, the State appeals can take
20 years to go up and down and back and forth from State
post-conviction review. We also have the rather
commonplace case in which a defendant doesn't file a
notice of appeal at all, as in Justice Breyer's
hypothetical, but the court of appeal says, you know,
for good cause we are going to let you file this appeal
late.
And it's quite clear in that scenario, so
your appeal is reinstated there, too, because you were
20 days late, 30 days late on the filing deadline. It's
quite clear and I think agreed in all of those
situations that, while Congress did want you to move
expeditiously, the question is move expeditiously from
when. And it's from the State court's direct review,
finishing the conclusion of direct review.
And we know that Congress recognized that
that wouldn't always be one year from the end of the
case the first time around from the structure of (B),
(C), and (D); and the fact that if there were a
tie-breaker at all, it is that the statute shall -- the
limitation period shall run from the latest of several
days. So Congress quite clearly contemplated that there
would be multiple possible start dates.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You said that it's
unusual for the Texas State to grant these. But
presumably you could challenge the determination five,
ten, 15 years later by the Texas court not to grant you
a direct appeal.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I'm not sure I understand
the -- the hypothetical, Mr. Chief Justice. If -- if
you lose your post-conviction application for it?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah. Let's say
this fellow -- the State court says, well, you know
what, we are not going to give you another direct
appeal. And he says, well, that decision was made in
violation of my federal constitutional rights. What
happens then with respect to federal habeas?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, he is challenging his
original -- Federal habeas corpus is reviewing the
judgment in his case. He has, since there was only one
conclusion of direct review in his case, one year
measured from the first dismissal, tolled only during
the period of pending post-conviction application.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But is he
challenging the first conviction, or is he challenging
the failure of the State court to give him another
direct appeal?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: He is challenging the fact
that he was denied a direct appeal, which is a challenge
to his actual conviction. That is a constitutional flaw
in his conviction. And so it runs from the conclusion
of the direct review, not from anything related to
post-conviction review.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's I
gather if he is granted the collateral -- the direct --
second direct appeal. What if the Court says no, we
don't agree that you were denied your right to a direct
appeal; we think you had it so you don't get another
one. And he says that determination has been made in
violation of the Federal Constitution.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: The fact that the State
post-conviction court did not remedy a violation of his
constitutional rights on direct review does not create a
new constitutional violation. The constitutional
violation in your hypothetical arises on direct review.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, doesn't it
depend upon the allegation he wishes to make? Say he
comes in in one of these proceedings four and a half
years later and says, you should give me another direct
review, I didn't have it. And the court says, well, no,
we're not going to give you one. And he says, well, you
give it to all the white criminal defendants and you are
not giving it to me, so that violates equal protection?
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I don't think so. And if I
could just explain -- give an analogy. Say he could
make the same allegation about ineffective assistance of
trial counsel. You can always try and recharacterize
your claim as the post-conviction court violated my
constitutional rights by not vindicating my original
constitutional rights, my right to constitutionally
effective counsel at trial or on appeal. And the
Federal habeas courts uniformly reject those efforts to
recharacterize. The constitutional violation arises in
the original criminal case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess my
hypothetical supposes a new constitutional violation.
And I am just suggesting that the fact that Texas
doesn't grant this relief freely doesn't mean that
that's a sufficient answer with respect to the abuse of
federal habeas.
MR. GOLDSTEIN: I understand,
Mr. Chief Justice. I think that body of cases is
relatively narrow as it arises, and it also isn't
implicated here.
If the Court has no further questions, I
will reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Jordan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SEAN D. JORDAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. JORDAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Congress's commitment to preventing
unnecessary delays in the filing of Federal habeas
claims is reflected in section 2244(d)(1)'s strict
one-year limitations period. And it did not intend that
inmates who wait for years before seeking
post-conviction review would obtain a new Federal
limitation start date when an out-of-time appeal is
awarded.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, why should that be,
given the fact that the day it is going to run from is
the day that -- which the State of Texas is willing to
take action. And if Texas is willing to let the matter
ride as long as it rode here, why shouldn't the one-year
statute apply?
In other words, I guess what I'm saying is
the -- the decision about what is appropriate, that,
in effect, would start this period running, is Texas's
And as long as Texas is -- is satisfied with it, why
does AEDPA have an independent concern?
MR. JORDAN: Your Honor, the reason is that
in (d)(1)(A) Congress set a uniform Federal rule for
finality. And that finality date is either when the --
the period of direct review ends by the conclusion of
direct review or the expiration of the time for seeking
direct review.
So when that happens, by statute, Congress
has said that the (d)(1)(A) finality date is attached.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but that -- in effect,
I think that begs the question, because if -- if Texas
says: Okay, we are going to -- we are going to
recognize a direct appeal starting -- or a direct-appeal
right exercisable now, then (d)(1)(A) applies by its own
terms exactly at the -- at the conclusion of the process
which Texas has at this date chosen to allow.
Texas doesn't have any gripe. It decided it
ought to act, and -- and, undoubtedly, it should have.
As long as the -- as long as the State is
protected, why is there an independent interest in
enforcing AEDPA, or enforcing the shortest possible rule
under AEDPA?
MR. JORDAN: Justice Souter, there is an
independent Federal interest that the Court has
recognized consistently in avoiding abusive and
unnecessary delay in the filing of Federal habeas
claims.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yeah, but we are -- we are
concerned about State interests, aren't we?
MR. JORDAN: Certainly, Justice Souter, and
comity and finality are important purposes of AEDPA.
But another recognized and important purpose of AEDPA is
to avoid, you know, abusive and unnecessary delays in
the filing of Federal habeas claims. So even if a State
court would allow stale claims years later to be heard,
that doesn't mean that Federal courts need to hear those
claims 10, 15 or 20 years later.
But there is a second point, Justice Souter,
that -- that is a problem with interpreting (d)(1)(A) in
the manner the Petitioner suggests, which is that it
will make it far more difficult for Federal courts to
administer that statute. Because if the Court
interprets "direct review" to bring in Texas and all the
50 States various remedies for ineffective assistance of
counsel on appeal, then what that means is you are no
longer going to have a uniform Federal rule for finality
in any of these cases.
What you are going to have is a patchwork of
-- of various dates, and the -- the reality is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you have got a -- in
a sense, you have got a patchwork now. I mean not --
not every State rule for the commencement of a direct
appeal in the normal course is -- is identical. So we
-- we start with a patchwork.
MR. JORDAN: But the difference is stark,
Justice Souter, because the -- the dates that the States
use for deadlines on initial direct appeal, the vast
majority, are within a short timeframe, 20 days to
90 days, the vast majority. Whereas, these remedies for
out-of-time appeals are genuinely varied, and they vary
over time in the States.
And if I could give you a couple of examples
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: But aren't they -- and I
will -- you know, I will take the examples, but I mean,
aren't they varied because the -- the circumstances of
error which led to these late appeals vary, too? And
isn't that exactly the way it ought to be?
MR. JORDAN: Well, it is correct, Justice
Souter, that some States -- the remedy varies with the
type of ineffective assistance of counsel, for example,
the difference between not filing a notice of appeal or
not filing a brief.
But my point is that those remedies -- the
Petitioner's brief -- opening brief at pages 29 to 32
says: This is going to be easy for Federal courts to
apply, because what they can do is look at these six
different aspects of the nature of the remedy in each
State, and they can determine from that whether --
when -- whether it should be a new start date or just
tolling. The --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can't we leave
that -- and you suggest that it is a Federal rule. I am
not sure that's right. Why don't we just leave that up
to the States? I am not -- if I don't accept your
friend's determination that this is a matter of
substance rather than form, States have it -- excuse
me -- within their control. Here -- your State calls it
another direct appeal.
Why don't we just take them at their word?
And if they don't want to get into the business of
having a Federal review of a second direct appeal that
they choose to allow, they just call it something else.
Call it a -- you know, the collateral review of a
successful claim of ineffective assistance of counsel
and file whatever. And then, you know, under AEDPA that
wouldn't count as a new final judgment.
MR. JORDAN: Well, it's -- it's true, Your
Honor, that the -- that States can fashion whatever
remedy they want. And in terms of the comity and
finality interests, it is going to be a responsibility
of the States if they want to change their law. But
because in -- in these out-of-time appeals -- and most
of the States' remedies look somewhat like in --
somewhat like Texas in the sense that they are coming
through post-conviction review and they -- they are
awarding another, if you will, chance for the inmate to
assert his claims. There is not a reason for the court
to strain the interpretation of (d)(1)(A) to protect the
State's interest --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why -- why is it a strain?
I mean suppose that Texas decided to give every criminal
defendant convicted one thousand years to appeal. You
know, if they did, I guess they would have one more year
after that to go to Federal habeas, right?
MR. JORDAN: That's true, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Then what's the
difference between that, giving them a thousand years,
which I doubt they will do, and what they have said
here? They said for purposes of the Texas rules all
time limits shall be calculated as if the sentence had
been imposed on the date that the mandate of this court
issues.
There they are. The Texas Supreme Court
gave him all that time, it's whatever it was, and said
that's the time you have. How, how is that different
from the legislature decides to give him one
thousand years?
MR. JORDAN: It's true, Your Honor, that the
-- that the -- the Texas court made a decision to give a
remedy to this inmate that was meant to duplicate the
type of claims he could have raised on direct appeal.
Our position is that does not change the finality date
under (d)(1)(A), because by statute, Congress has said
that that date attaches at the -- at the expiration of
direct review. And -- and the natural reading of that
language --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I -- I was
just going to stop you there. It doesn't say that
starts to run at the expiration of direct review. It
says on the date the judgment became final.
MR. JORDAN: That's correct, Your Honor, and
it says, it became final by --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- by the conclusion
of direct review.
MR. JORDAN: Or the expiration of the time
for seeking such review. And the importance there, Your
Honor, is that it -- it anticipates one of two events
occurring. In other words, the natural reading is
Congress understood that in some cases there wasn't
going to be a conclusion of direct review. There was
going to be an expiration of time for seeking review.
And at that point finality would attach.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even though, as in this
case, it turned out he found out within a year. But
suppose he didn't find out for more than a year; that
is, he didn't find out that -- that the appeal had been
filed, and he didn't find out about the dismissal? So
because either his counsel or the State blundered, he is
out in the cold, and he can never present his direct-
appeal claim.
MR. JORDAN: Not necessarily, Justice
Ginsburg, and that's the reason why Congress already
provided exceptions in the statute in the form of
subsections (b) through (d) that provide later start
dates for extenuating circumstances beyond the inmate's
control.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Goldstein just
explained to us why those two provisions, the (b) and
(d) would not work. That this --
MR. JORDAN: I understand, Your Honor. And,
respectfully, I disagree -- I disagree with that, and
here is the reason why (d)(1)(B) applies. And (d)(1)(B)
applies because in -- for example, in this case you had
the -- a finding that there was constitutionally
ineffective assistance of counsel to the extent of
abandoning the inmate on appeal.
And this Court's precedent has said that
when there is -- in the trial or on direct appeal, when
there is ineffectiveness of counsel that amounts to
abandonment, that winds up being imputed to the State
because it means that the State got or -- or kept a
conviction by the violation of the inmate's due-process
rights.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you have a case
to cite for that? Because I understood your friend to
say the opposite: That wouldn't count as an impediment.
MR. JORDAN: I do --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do I resolve
that dispute?
MR. JORDAN: I do, Your Honor. You -- you
need -- need to look no longer than the case that is
cited in both briefs. It is Evitts versus Lucey, and it
is cited in the Petitioner's brief at pages 27 and 37,
and it is cited in our brief at pages 36 and 37.
It is also in another case not cited in the
brief, but it is also noted in Coleman versus Thompson.
In other words, the Court has consistently said that
where there is constructive denial of counsel that
amounts to no assistance at all and the State thereby
obtains and retains a conviction, there -- that will be
imputed to the State. Now, the difficult part in
getting (d)(1)(B), a later date under (d)(1)(B), is that
you also need the causal connection, because you can't
just have the ineffective assistance of counsel. It
also has to have caused the inmate not to be able to
file his -- his timely Federal habeas. That happened in
this case because the ineffective assistance of counsel
resulted in the inmate having a lack of notice. The
attorney did not serve the Anders brief on the inmate
and he gave the wrong address to the court. So the
court wound up sending the judgment to the wrong address
and the inmate didn't know.
That's why we say in those circumstances
(d)(1)(B) is implicated. But it's worth noting that
even if we measure the date from September of 1997 or we
give him a new date under (d)(1)(B), then that's the
date that he admits, he acknowledges, he knew his State
appeal had failed. From that date, he waited four and a
half years to seek any type of post-conviction review.
And then -- and the importance of that is that Congress
intended to give a year, a strict one-year period. This
inmate could have invoked (d)(1)(B) and he did not and
he waited four and a half years from the date he could
have had.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And Texas could -- and
Texas could have gone into the State court and said:
Don't give him the direct review; he waited four and a
half years after he -- but the State didn't ask for
that.
MR. JORDAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
The State did not assert a laches defense, but I have --
there is two points on that: One is that the only case
-- there is one case and it's cited in the brief, Ex
parte Carrio. It's cited in the Petitioner's brief.
There's one case in the last 150 years of Texas
jurisprudence where laches has actual been asserted and
an appeal has been -- I'm sorry -- habeas has been
denied based on that.
And we are not talking about -- we are not
asserting laches here. We are talking about the running
of his Federal limitations period under a Federal
statute. And what we are saying is this inmate was
clearly not diligent, and this inmate could have had a
later start date, but even from that later start date
he would -- he would -- the Federal period would have
expired.
I would like to address quickly the (d)(2)
point because I think it's important. The reference was
made that (d)(2) doesn't work, In other words (d)(2)
tolling won't work in this case because of the Court's
decision in Lawrence. And that's -- that's not true,
because the situation in Lawrence was different.
In Lawrence, the Court's decision said that
inmate had exhausted all of his post-conviction review
in the Florida courts. He had gone all the way to the
top court. There was no State court left for him to go
to. And the question was, when he then came to this
Court with a cert petition, could that cert petition
count as tolling time of review for the State
post-conviction review? The Court said no.
That's not the case here. This is more like
the Court's decision in Carey versus Saffold, where in,
Carey, the Court said -- the Court acknowledged that
under California law where inmates can, if they lose
their habeas in a lower court, they can then file an
original writ in a higher court. The Court said that,
while the inmate is going through that process, the
collateral review of the underlying judgment remained
pending, it remained in continuance.
And that's what's happening here. If you
look at what happened in the Texas court, when the
inmate files his habeas petition, the habeas petition
itself is not reviewing the pertinent judgment. That's
the language of (d)(2), "reviewing the pertinent
judgment." That habeas petition asks for a second
proceeding to review the pertinent judgment. It says,
can you give me another proceeding, the out-of-time
appeal, to review the pertinent judgment? And so, when
the inmate receives that, when he -- if he gets the
out-of-time appeal, then the next step, the out-of-time
appeal, is where the judgment is reviewed.
So, the Court's rationale in Carey is
applicable with even greater force here because the
State courts have told him: File another -- you know,
continue your proceeding so you can get review of the
underlying judgment. And it anticipates a two-step
process. So you might say that the out-of-time appeal
is the remedy portion of the habeas proceeding in Texas.
And that's why the (d)(2) tolling does work and Lawrence
does not defeat that. And in this case, that means that
the inmate, if he had acted timely, he could have filed
his State post-conviction petition. If he had obtained
an out-of-time appeal, he could -- the tolling would
have gone on while -- throughout the out-of-time appeal.
And then if he had lost that, he could have then gone to
Federal court. And so --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you're saying that
(2) has a negative implication.
MR. JORDAN: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You are saying that (2)
had a negative implication. In other words, the time
shall not be counted while it's pending and that it
should be counted if it's not pending and you are not
diligent.
MR. JORDAN: That's -- well, that's correct,
Your Honor, in the sense that if the State -- some
collateral review in State court has to be pending for
tolling to be going on. And what we are saying is that
for the out-of-time appeal process in Texas, it does
remain pending. The reason it remains pending is that
that first habeas petition is asking for, and if the
inmate gets it is receiving, further collateral review
of that judgment because --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When you say "the
first habeas petition" you mean the first State habeas
petition?
MR. JORDAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. I'm sorry.
MR. JORDAN: And that first State habeas
petition -- if you look -- if you look in the record,
you will see the State habeas petition doesn't challenge
anything about the underlying judgment. It doesn't say,
give me relief on any particular claim. What it says
is, give me an out-of-time appeal proceeding so that I
can challenge the underlying judgment. And so, when the
inmate obtains that out-of-time appeal to -- to get
review of the underlying judgment, (d)(2) tolling still
applies. And that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. What do
you mean, "(d)(2) tolling still applies"? That the
direct appeal time does not count against his one year?
MR. JORDAN: That's correct. The
out-of-time appeal time, Your Honor, won't count. So
what we'll go on is that if his habeas was granted and
he was allowed the out-of-time appeal, he could pursue
the out-of-time appeal. The tolling of the Federal
limitations period under (d)(2) would remain during that
entire time, if he then loses his out-of-time appeal and
he comes out of the other side of the process.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's assuming that he
files the appeal within one year, right?
MR. JORDAN: That's -- I mean, if he does,
that's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if he doesn't?
MR. JORDAN: If he doesn't file his State
habeas within one year?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. JORDAN: Your Honor, if he doesn't file
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: The game is over.
MR. JORDAN: Well, it would be, Your Honor,
unless he fell into one of the exceptions provided by
Congress in (B), (C), or (D).
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if he doesn't find out
about the fact that notice, proper notice, wasn't given
to his counsel, so he doesn't find out about the
gravamen for the appeal until after a year?
MR. JORDAN: Your Honor, two points in
response. The first is that -- is that I'm assuming, in
your hypothetical, that it is an inmate who has
attempted to be diligent, has attempted to contact the
court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. Right.
MR. JORDAN: And if he has attempted to
contact the court and he still had not found out, the
circumstances -- I mean, we've looked at a lot of these
cases and there is just very few out there where an
inmate who is being diligent is not going to be able to
find out one way or the other. So, it may be that if he
wasn't able to, he might fall under (d)(1)(B). But if
he didn't, Your Honor, and it was an unusual -- and it
would have to be a very unusual circumstance -- it might
be that equitable tolling could apply. But this Court
has recognized, in Dodd v. United States, in
interpreting the similar provisions in the counterpart
to 2244(d)(1)(C), in the context of when the Court
recognizes a retroactively applicable --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think (d)(1)(B)
does. It requires an impediment to have been removed.
There is no impediment being removed. He just didn't
find out the facts.
MR. JORDAN: Well, presumably, Your Honor,
the reason that he didn't would have -- if he was being
diligent, if he was -- because he needs to be diligent.
He can't just sit in his cell --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. Right.
MR. JORDAN: -- and say, "I'm not going to
do anything." If he is being diligent and if he is
really attempting to find out what happened to his case,
then probably something has happened, either, you know,
through the State system or through the attorney. But
if it has not -- you know, again, we've looked at a lot
of these cases. We haven't seen cases like that, but --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I just made one up. I
mean, it's a hypothetical.
MR. JORDAN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: But it works. Your system,
I think, works in that instance, as I understand it.
Don't tell me I'm right if I'm wrong, please. But the
-- as you understand it, he finishes -- he doesn't get
his appeal, you know, and time passes; doesn't take it.
Then, five years later, he learns for the first time and
the first time he could have learned that his lawyer
tore up the notification. At that point, (1)(B) comes
into play. So the year begins to run.
Then, in your idea, he has -- he has a year
to go to Federal court. But wait, it's tolled while he
goes to State court. So he goes to State court having
just learned it. And now he's under (2) and he files a
habeas in State. Now the remedy of the State habeas is
to reopen the direct appeal. But we should count that,
since it's a remedy of a habeas, as if it were a
continuation of the habeas and therefore it would fall
within (2). That's your argument.
MR. JORDAN: Exactly.
JUSTICE BREYER: And it's -- correct? I do
not think there is any case ever considered that to my
knowledge.
MR. JORDAN: No --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and the only difficulty
of it is that you have to take a sort of leap of faith
of some kind in attaching what everybody's calling the
direct appeal as if it were actually part of the State
habeas proceeding. That's I think the hardest part of
your argument.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is more of a problem
than that, as the other side just said. (1)(B), which
is the gimmick you are using to get out of this, doesn't
speak of not being able to find out in time; it speaks
of the date on which the impediment to file an
application --
JUSTICE BREYER: (D).
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- is removed.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's not (B), it's (D).
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, you said (D), not (B).
JUSTICE BREYER: (D).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought,
Counsel, that your response to that was when you have a
failure of counsel, that that is imputed to the State.
So it is a removal of an impediment created by the
State.
MR. JORDAN: That's -- that's correct,
Mr. Chief Justice. That's -- under the Court's decision
is cases like Evitts v Lucey, if there has been a
constructive denial of counsel, an abandonment of
counsel to the degree where there was effectively no
appeal, then that could be imputed to the State. The
reasoning has been that it's because the State was able
to get or keep a conviction without the inmate having
due process. That would be -- the inmate would still
have to have the fact that that impediment actually
caused him to -- and this case is a good example.
Even though this inmate -- you know, there
was ineffectiveness of counsel -- if the court had the
right address, and court had sent him the judgment, then
there would not have been the causal connection; he
wouldn't have been able to get the (d)(1)(D) date.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The problem with (1)(D) is
that the claim or claims presented that is referred to
in (D) is not the denial of the appeal. It's the claim
or claims that he wants to bring in his Federal habeas.
That's why (1)(D) doesn't work, you have to go back to
(1)(B).
I'm talking to you.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: But I think it's a good
point.
MR. JORDAN: Well, you are exactly right,
Justice Scalia, that (d)(1)(D), in this case, because it
is claim-specific it only does apply to the ineffective
assistance of counsel on appeal. We noted in our brief
that it was implicated, but because he got relief on
that claim in the State court, there was no reason for
him to -- so he wouldn't have -- the (D) was implicated
but didn't need to be asserted.
We are that saying (d)(1)(B) --
JUSTICE SCALIA: (B).
MR. JORDAN: -- is -- is -- in play in the
case because of the unique circumstances of this -- of
this --
JUSTICE BREYER: Between your response to
the Chief Justice and Justice Scalia, I stand
enlightened.
MR. JORDAN: It's the interplay of these two
-- of these two provisions, because both of them in any
particular case could be in play. If the -- - if, for
example, this inmate had not gotten relief in the State
court for his ineffectiveness of counsel on appeal, then
the (d)(1)(D) could have provided a later start date for
that claim. It's (d)(1)(B) that applies to the other
claims. And the -- you know, the bottom line notion for
our position is that it cannot be that Congress intended
in this -- this statute to be interpreted such that a
non-diligent inmate who waits four and a half years
after he knows his appeal has failed to seek any sort of
post-conviction relief will obtain a new start date.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's your fault.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Justice could have -- not
only, that don't some States have a limitation period
when -- when he finds out that his appeal has been
dismissed, without notice to him, aren't there some
States, criminal justice systems, that say from the date
that you had knowledge, you have X days to file?
MR. JORDAN: Yes, Your Honor. There are a
number of States that have -- if we are talking about
remedies for ineffective assistance of counsel on
appeal, there are a number of States that have
deadlines; but there are at least 19 States that provide
remedies for ineffectiveness of counsel on appeal with
no statute of limitations.
And in -- and in those States and in many
cases what that means is that the inmate, like this
inmate, could come five years later, ten years later,
and make those claims.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, do I understand
correctly that, based on your answers and your friend's
answers, there is no difference between the way you two
in substance read these provisions? He relies on
(d)(1)(A); you rely on the combination of (d)(2) and
(d)(1)(B) and (d); except in the situation where you
have a non-diligent prisoner, and in that case, his
theory leads to a different result than yours.
He excuses the non-diligence because the
State chooses to label the second opportunity as final.
You do not excuse the non-diligence because in the
absence of diligence, (d)(1)(B) and (d)(1)(D) do not
apply.
MR. JORDAN: That's correct, Mr. Chief
Justice. And I'd like to address a point that's made in
the reply brief, about --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then it comes down
-- it does come down to his, where he began his
argument, which is he said that this is an unusual case
where Texas is being overly generous to convicts,
because you choose to label it as direct appeal and
therefore that means someone that the States allow to
have another direct appeal, even though they have been
non-diligent, get the benefit of the -- of a new
finality date.
MR. JORDAN: That's correct, Your Honor, and
our position is that Texas -- not Texas or any State can
rewrite the -- this Federal statute and a finality date
in this Federal statute. But I want to address quickly
the point that's made in a reply brief that the Court
not worry about this because there is no incentive for
non-capital inmates to -- to sit on their rights. And I
have two points I want to make on that.
The first is Congress has already made that
decision. Obviously Congress was concerned that even
non-capital inmates could sit on their rights because
they imposed this strict one-year limitation on
non-capital inmates. But the second point is that as a
practical matter this happens in many, many cases.
These cases provide the example. In this case the
inmate waited five years. The Frasch v Peguese case
that is coming out of the Fourth Circuit on an
out-of-time appeal, the inmate -- a non-capital inmate
waited ten years to seek post-conviction review. And so
these are cases that we think are representative of many
case that would come through the district courts, and
that in fact non-capital inmates, whatever their
incentives may be, do as a practical matter sometimes
sit on their rights.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Convicted felons don't
always make intelligent decisions, you are saying.
MR. JORDAN: That's correct. And the
problem is that when -- when for whatever reason they
sit on their rights ten or 15 years, our point is that
that doesn't mean they can come back in and have Federal
courts hearing stale claims that should have been
brought, if the inmate was being diligent, years
earlier.
And there's -- and this case is a case in
point. This inmate has -- has provided no reason why --
no legitimate reason why he waited four and a half
years. The only reason he provided was I am a pro se
inmate and I -- I don't know what the law S. And you
can his data in the joint appendix pages 109 to 112, and
those are directly rejected by the court in the Johnson
case, Johnson v United States. The court said in that
case --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Am I correct that on the
underlying merits of the basic claims, that each -- his
lawyer filed an Anders brief?
MR. JORDAN: That's correct, Justice --
JUSTICE STEVENS: He's probably not a very
-- he's not -- has the greatest in the world of
succeeding, I wouldn't suppose.
Isn't this characteristic of this category
of cases, that really most of them heard are pretty
frivolous?
MR. JORDAN: Your Honor, a lot of them are.
A lot of them are, and in fact there were two Anders
briefs filed in this case. To show how -- how weak his
claims were, when he got the out-of-time appeal, he was
appointed a new attorney and she filed an Anders brief.
So you had two attorneys in this case who said --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What strikes me about the
case is we are fighting about the limitations and
whether it applies and so forth; you probably could have
disposed of the whole litigation a lot faster by just
looking at the merits for about ten minutes.
MR. JORDAN: I think that is exactly right,
Justice Stevens. But the procedural questions remain --
JUSTICE STEVENS: This is all -- this is a
product of Congress trying to save us all time.
(Laughter.)
MR. JORDAN: Indeed. This case, the
underlying merits are, there basically are no merits to
his underlying claims is a point we have fully briefed
and I won't address here unless there are questions from
the Court. And unless there are further questions,
I'm --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you Mr.
Jordan.
Mr. Goldstein, you have four minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GOLDSTEIN: Thank you, sir. A few short
points.
Justice Stevens, if later on you have an
opportunity to look at footnote 15 on page 42 of the
blue brief, we cite eight cases, and there are more, in
which these out-of-time appeals really did find
meritorious claims. And I -- so I don't want the Court
to be left with the impression that this is much ado
about nothing. The rule of law will actually be quite
significant.
Two small corrections to things my friend
inadvertently said or impressions he may have
inadvertently left. He says there are 19 States that
have no statute of limitations, but that omits the very
many of those States that apply laches, and the fact
that the State of Texas here did not assert the
untimeliness of the State post-conviction proceeding is
pretty much I think why we are ultimately here.
He also said that there is only one State
opinion finding laches, as if, I think, to create the
impression that Texas courts don't take laches
seriously. Most of these are disposed of without
opinions. But the more relevant important is that there
aren't Texas State opinions rejecting claims of laches.
What the Texas courts have made is that the Texas A.G.'s
office has to assert the defense of laches, as is true
everywhere and is true in this Court's jurisprudence as
well.
The final two points I wanted to make are
about (d)(1)(B) and (d)(2), all of which, I think
honestly reduced to Justice Kennedy's point, is that the
relevant provision is (d)(1), whatever else is going on
in the case. But Justice Scalia and the Chief Justice
came back to the point about whether this is an
impediment, and my friend kept answering it is State
action, and the Court would say, but is it an
impediment?
And at page 20 of our reply brief we must
cite eight or ten cases, three of which notably are from
Texas; there were litigated by the Texas Attorney
General's office, that make it clear that the failure to
give the notice of the opinion is not an impediment to
filing post-conviction review, and the Court would be
rewriting a lot of habeas corpus law to rule for the
State of Texas here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about -- he
cited most prominently the Evitts case.
MR. JORDAN: That's a State action, but as
the Court's questioning indication, the question is, is
State action that is an impediment to filing a Federal
habeas petition, and all of our cases answered that
question.
The final point is about (d)(2) and my
friend says that this isn't like Lawrence v Florida,
because here there is more proceedings. But the Court's
holding was this, and it was unambiguous: When the
post-conviction court enters its mandate, so that the
time to seek cert starts to run, that's when the
post-conviction application is no longer pending; and
when the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals decided the
Petitioner's claim and said he had an out-of-time
appeal, it issued its mandate and the mandate is in the
joint appendix. And somebody -- the State could have
sought cert in that case, and the post-conviction
application was no longer pending.
And Mr. Chief Justice, you're right, you can
the case on the basis of label or substance, but it is
unambiguous that this is not post-conviction review in
what we have been calling the second appeal. Teague
retroactivity does not apply; all the constitutional
rights that are announced in the meantime apply; you
have a right to a counsel; the usual standards of
post-conviction relief in terms of having us show an
extra layer of prejudice don't apply.
This is just like any other appeal the Texas
Court of Appeals and the courts of criminal appeal would
decide and that makes it a (d)(1) case.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 1:58 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
alive 19:2 26:13 27:12 40:3,5 46:15 attempt 12:4
44:20 25:5 29:21 30:13,16 apply 3:24 9:13 41:11,14
44:4 allow 12:17 22:1 33:6,10 34:1,3 11:10,15,17 42:14
45:7 27:15 28:9 35:18 36:12 13:9 16:17 attorney 35:9
54:25 allowed 40:10 38:19 39:9,24 41:23 45:20 53:8
analogy 25:4 43:1,11,23 appointed 50:21 authority 18:7
35:9 50:9,18 46:13,20,25 17:20 26:22 avoid 28:7
announced 54:18,19 2:2,7 3:4,6 awarding 31:6
anomalous 5:8 8:4,10 9:19 10:20 17:19
11:4 15:14,15 26:3 43:14,25 B
anomaly 11:5 18:19 22:4 48:8 51:17 b 8:20 9:1,5,12
26:18 19:23 25:18 17:10 25:12,22 33:22,22 35:2
answered 53:19 APPEARAN... article 18:13,17 35:2,14,16,22
answers 47:16 appears 11:19 asking 39:11 43:4 44:2,9,10
anticipates appendix 8:3 aspects 30:2 46:15 47:20
36:22 appeal 3:11,12 applicable 38:8 36:6 52:9,19 back 10:12,23
48:4,18 3:16 5:15 6:1 42:2 asserted 36:11 14:6,11 19:17
6:11,11,15,17 applicant 11:23 45:25 22:5 45:12
8:15 9:20 10:6 3:24 4:18 5:8 assistance 13:4 background
12:2 13:7,13 12:4,6,20 13:3 29:20 30:19 based 36:13
21:24 19:16,18,19 54:2,8 assuming 9:13 basis 13:8 54:10
27:20,21 20:22,23 21:17 applications 40:15 41:9 began 48:7
30:20 21:19 22:8,9 14:14,22 attach 33:2 begins 19:14
3:7 3:1,6 7:8 22:23 32:24 41:17 49:6 10:16 13:13,15
51:18 41:3 51:17 42:18,18 44:19 Circuit's 4:23 24:9 30:18
20:10 California 37:14 50:15 51:23 circumstance combination
calling 43:22 cause 17:13 35:13 41:16 48:7 49:10,19
51:23 candy 15:13 cell 42:10 51:23 53:7 48:6
CARLOS 1:3 24:3 39:21,25 13:4,6,23 commencement
Carrio 36:9 23:17,24,24 17:4,4,6,12 commitment
case 3:4,10,13 24:2 20:2,5,9 25:7 26:7
42:22 3:17 4:8,10,12 chance 31:6 30:19 33:10 commonplace
44:7 4:13,15,24 change 31:1 39:23 45:9,10 22:7
45:16 6:24 7:1,5,8,14 32:7 45:23 46:15 competent 12:9
7:22 8:4,4,14 characteristic 54:4 concern 9:6,11
9:21 16:24 20:11 5:18,24 6:19 21:25 26:9 concerned 8:7
13:19 22:7,22 23:19 7:2 10:13,20 28:1,8,9,11 18:25 28:3
29:22,24 23:20 25:13 12:7 13:10 31:7 32:6 45:9 48:24
34:18,19 33:4,23 34:9 14:15 21:23 45:11 46:16 conclude 12:1
35:9 34:16,20 35:7 22:4 23:3,9,11 47:14 49:20 concludes 14:8
45:21 36:7,8,10,25 23:23 24:8,20 50:8,20 51:10 19:11
50:9 37:11 38:15 25:14,21 26:1 51:25 52:17 conclusion 4:4
51:23 42:14 43:17 26:5 30:6 claim-specific 7:19 8:1 16:4
45:2,19 46:4 32:12,18 34:9 45:20 22:19 23:20
49:23,23 50:5 46:7 47:15 clear 11:17 confidence
51:8 53:1,15 53:1,14 54:9 22:12,15 53:9 Congress 5:10
cases 6:7 8:11 chooses 13:11 client 17:15 22:16,20 23:1
46:17 corpus 3:20,25 16:16,18,19,21 15:14 25:1,13 28:23 29:5
51:6 9:23 10:4 12:4 16:23,25 17:2 31:11 47:2 33:15
21:21 23:18 19:10 20:24 custody 3:25 23:1 29:7,8
correct 10:17,25 23:6,12,25 D deadline 12:22
32:16 36:5 25:7,24 26:6 4:15 5:12,20 deadlines 29:6
40:18 43:16 31:7,21,23 9:5,13 10:24 deal 9:9 12:16
34:22 49:16 50:7,10 35:10,11 36:1 12:21 13:2,9 decide 3:13 7:21
24:14 corrections 52:4 37:21 38:21 27:2,8,13 4:12 5:3,4 8:4
12:9 23:15 counsel 12:9 41:23 42:1 32:8 33:14,19 31:11 54:3
13:5 25:6,10 43:7,8,8 45:4,5 33:22,22 35:2 decides 32:1
26:1 28:19 45:23 46:13 35:2,14,16,22 decision 6:5
29:20 30:19 48:19 50:4,5 36:22,24,24 23:14 26:22
33:24 34:23 35:4,7 53:11,25 54:3 40:2,5,12 41:3 44:18 48:24
44:20 44:20,21 45:4 courts 3:10 7:14 44:7,9,10,11 49:15
54:22 17:25 21:15 46:1,14,14,15 12:8 15:9 22:7
34:11 37:9 38:9 49:10,20 52:23,25 53:21 14:13 15:16,23
counted 4:21 court's 7:22 8:8 data 50:3 25:1
course 22:4 29:2 53:17,23 26:13 27:3,8 defense 36:6
3:12,14 4:1,25 5:11 14:7 31:21 32:7,9 defer 9:16
7:23,25 8:3,4,9 52:13 35:16,17,18,23 10:3,8
24:4,5 12:15 13:25 criminal 1:8 47:2 48:14,17 delay 15:24 19:7
44:24 14:12,15 15:14 3:15 5:7 8:10 dates 4:3 7:4,12 27:25
45:10 24:11,17,19,23 due 12:24 44:25 51:3 facts 9:17 12:5
17:5 28:17 29:1,6 34:7 29:20 33:23 factual 4:14
21:17 30:13,16 32:6 duplicate 32:5 45:2 46:12 5:11 12:22
36:13 32:10,14,19,25 D.C 1:12,19 49:4 failed 35:18
40:6 43:11,23 E 29:14 failure 12:1,10
directly 9:4,12 earlier 49:22 33:13 41:2 44:14 53:9
DIRECTOR 1:7 easier 12:21 47:25 fall 41:20 43:13
15:10 disagree 33:21 effective 25:10 27:13 faster 51:1
12:24 eight 51:23 53:7 exhaust 17:8 6:17,20 7:17
23:5 discretion 17:11 33:8 42:15 exhausted 17:4 9:22 10:4,10
30:10 discretionary elide 21:24 20:15,21,24 12:4 13:3
29:4,21 6:17 15:19 enlightened expiration 4:5 21:15,20,25
47:17 16:8,10,15 46:8 27:5 32:9,14 23:15,16,18
31:25 dismissed 8:15 entire 40:13 expire 7:9 26:8,12 27:2
47:22 9:19 12:2 entirely 21:17 expired 36:21 27:23,25 28:8
dispose 16:20,20 equal 25:2 explain 5:21 9:4 29:25 30:7,16
disposes 5:5 9:19 33:18 38:21 40:11
41:11,18 7:22 ESQ 1:19,21 2:3 extenuating 48:17,18 49:19
dispute 13:11 2:5,8 33:15 53:18
34:14 established 7:23 extra 54:17 feel 17:22
5:1,15 6:1 8:8 10:10 events 32:22 F fellow 23:12
9:20 10:6 16:23 17:10,11 everybody's fact 8:14 9:7 felons 49:14
13:13 20:24 21:21 43:22 10:5 12:8 Fifth 4:12,23 5:3
14:6 49:10 Evitts 34:17 17:24,25 20:25 5:5,21 7:4
17:5 DIVISION 1:10 44:19 53:15 22:23 24:2,15 10:21
19:18,19 Dodd 41:24 Ex 36:8 25:16 26:16 fighting 50:24
22:18,19 doubt 20:12 exactly 10:20 41:5 45:1 file 3:20 9:20
12:19 39:11,15,15,19 15:22 18:17 18:12,16 19:22 53:12,19
19:19 41:9 43:2,3 General's 53:9 19:25 20:4,8 half 8:18,23
21:16 48:23 generous 9:24 20:14,20 21:4 24:22 35:19,23
30:20 fit 8:20 48:9 21:8,12 22:3 36:3 46:19
37:15 fits 9:1 genuinely 29:9 23:8,17 24:2 49:25
40:20,23 five 23:5 43:2 getting 35:2 24:15 25:3,20 hallmarks 13:20
47:3 47:13 49:5 gimmick 44:3 33:17 51:16,17handle 5:22 19:7
16:17 Florida 5:4 37:5 9:3 11:8 14:10 good 17:13 35:6 37:21
38:16 53:22 18:2,8 33:3,12 22:10 45:2,16 42:14,15
following 9:14 33:17 35:25 gotten 46:12 happening
40:16 51:22 give 8:22 12:1 6:9 happens 19:12
force 15:8 38:8 15:13 23:13,25 governs 3:21 21:14,15 23:16
12:3 form 30:11 25:4 29:11 25:17 hardest 43:24
22:14 33:13 31:11 32:1,4 granted 6:11 hear 3:3 28:10
27:25 forth 22:5 50:25 35:16,21 36:2 24:9 40:9 heard 28:9
29:21,22 found 8:17,22 38:2 39:23,24 granting 15:5 50:15
9:21 14:2 33:4 53:10 grapple 12:5 hearing 49:20
16:9 four 4:3 5:2 7:3 giving 9:20 21:6 gravamen 41:7 higher 37:16
19:11 8:17,23 17:16 25:2 31:17 great 14:22 15:9highest 8:10
32:15,17 24:22 35:18,23 go 4:8 7:17 greater 38:8 holding 53:24
52:22 36:2 46:19 16:23 17:1 greatest 50:12 honestly 52:24
49:25 51:16 22:5 31:14 gripe 27:16 Honor 27:1
28:5 Frasch 49:5 45:12 25:14 26:21 32:3,16,22
30:25 free 5:15 goes 19:16,17 31:13 33:20 34:15
33:2 freely 25:17 43:8,8 36:5 39:6,17
friend 34:10 going 7:20 15:10 H 40:8,18,23
42:6 friends 10:15 22:10 23:13 9:23 10:4 47:4 48:15
44:4 friend's 30:10 24:25 26:16 11:13 12:4,20 50:17
47:16 27:11,11 28:20 13:3 17:7 hypothetical
fully 51:10 30:25 32:13,25 20:1,9,16 21:8,10 22:9
9:4,19 G 3:1 4:9 5:17 6:7,24 37:22,25 38:13 idea 43:6
15:19 game 40:25 7:3 8:14 9:2 39:11,15,15,19 identical 29:2
19:20 gather 10:14 10:17 12:12 39:21 40:9,21 identifies 4:3
24:9 13:17 16:6,13 43:10,10,12,13 illustrate 8:2
23:21,24 general 1:21 17:3,18 18:6 43:24 45:11 impediment
12:3,13 32:5 34:1 35:5 Jimenez 1:3 3:4 22:4,8 23:3,9 45:3 46:16
34:11
Johnson 50:4,5 23:11,23 24:8 50:2
44:5,15
37:4 joint 8:3 50:3 24:20 25:14,21 knowledge
53:3,5,10 37:17,22 38:4 54:6 26:1,5,15 27:9 43:18 47:3
38:16 39:12 Jordan 1:21 2:5 27:22 28:2,4 knows 21:2,5
35:14 44:24,25 45:3 27:22 28:4 29:13,18 30:6
46:12,19 47:12 29:4,18 30:22 31:10,16 32:12 L
39:1 49:21,24 50:2 32:20 33:11,20 33:17 34:9,13 47:24 48:10
35:20 37:14 48:21,25 38:24 39:5,17 39:14,18 40:4 laches 14:25
36:23 inmate's 33:15 40:20,23 41:1 41:4,13 42:3 19:6 36:6,11
34:7 41:8,14 42:7 42:11,19,22 36:15 52:8,13
instituted 16:7 43:19 44:17 44:7,8,9,10,11 lack 35:8
institutes 16:11 47:4 48:3,15 45:16,19 46:2 32:11 37:24
19:4 51:3,8,15 46:23 47:2,15 22:14,14 29:16
44:14,22 1:10 judge 13:5 20:5 50:7,10,11,23 Laughter 45:15
18:23 15:2 35:21 23:19 30:21 52:2 53:12
46:17 32:15 35:11 K Lawrence 5:4,5
27:19,23 interplay 46:9 jurisprudence 18:14 38:22,25 lawyer 8:16
46:18 5:19,24 6:19 kind 6:5 21:24 leads 6:6 47:22
28:18 28:13 41:25 10:13,20 11:8 knew 35:17 learned 43:3,9
30:19 interprets 28:17 12:7 13:10 know 6:11 7:4 learns 43:2
35:4,7 invoked 35:22 14:10,15 16:1 7:24,24 8:14 leave 30:6,8
47:6 issue 4:13 16:11 17:1,14 8:16 15:14,16 led 29:16
45:4 54:5 18:12,14,21 28:7 29:14 52:1,6
47:9 issues 5:8 31:22 19:12,24 20:3 30:18,20 31:13 legal 12:18
22:25
46:24 33:11 obtained 38:17 P
29:7,8
man 19:17 need 4:8 28:10 obtains 34:25 P 3:1
14:20 11:5 31:21 45:25 Obviously 48:24 4:16 8:3 11:19
18:1 53:25 54:5,5 needs 42:9 occurring 32:23 51:22 53:6
36:16 manner 28:14 negative 38:23 office 52:19 53:9 pages 29:24
47:10 matter 1:15 6:20 39:1 Oh 10:13 21:10 34:18,19 50:3
52:7 16:21 26:18 negligent 17:16 44:10 part 5:2,15 6:2
means 28:19 49:2,7,11 operates 16:24 Peguese 49:5
48:11 47:23,25 17:23 52:13 pending 4:20
34:16 measure 35:15 46:19 47:21 opinions 52:16 37:19 39:2,3,7
measured 23:21 48:13 52:17 39:10,10 54:2
30:1 51:25 notably 53:7 9:20 47:24 period 3:24 4:2
34:16 merits 50:8 51:2 noted 34:21 51:22 4:21 7:6 8:12
39:20,20 51:9,9 45:21 opposite 19:1 10:15 15:7,8
minutes 51:2,16 notice 12:2 22:8 34:11 22:25 23:22
moment 9:13 41:5,5 47:1 26:3 35:21 36:16,20
10:8 16:14,14 notification original 6:15 person 3:25
move 18:24 noting 35:14 25:8,13 37:16 37:23,24 38:1
51:1
10:5 26:13 29:9 37:25 38:17
November 1:13 31:2 38:2,5,5 39:11,15,16,20
37:15 N 2:1,1 3:1 47:5,7 39:9,24 40:1,8 petitioner 1:4,20
NATHANIEL O 49:7 50:20 7:15 11:13
O 2:1 3:1 51:24 54:4 15:5 16:15
51:18 24:7,16 25:7 38:13 39:24 54:24 reasoning 44:23
9:19 29:24 35:19 37:4,10 proceedings Q 2:7 51:17
36:9 38:17 46:21 24:22 53:23 Quarterman 1:6 received 13:6
49:8 52:10 process 5:2,16 3:4 receives 38:4
14:3 37:17 38:12 22:17 27:10 recognize 19:6
49:12 44:25 questioning recognized
predicate 12:23 product 51:6 questions 25:24 28:6 41:24
prescribes 3:23 53:15 quickly 15:21 42:2
14:25 presented 3:17 20:15,17,18,19 quite 12:14 14:7 39:20
18:21 7:1 12:23 13:3 20:20 41:5 19:3 21:25 reduced 52:24
21:24 45:9 properly 4:18 22:12,15 23:1 reference 36:23
29:23 presumably 16:17 52:2 referenced 13:2
36:23 23:5 42:7 proposition 5:14 referred 45:9
45:17 pretty 11:25 prospect 9:8 R reflected 26:9
49:2 50:15 52:11 14:13 19:7 R 3:1 regard 6:4,9,12
51:10 prevail 15:17 protect 15:2 raise 13:22 6:13
53:2,21 17:14 31:8 15:11 17:6,19 regarded 5:1
41:8 preventing 26:7 protection 25:2 raised 9:6 32:6 regime 18:18
51:20 principle 14:24 provide 33:14 raises 20:4 reinstated 3:11
principles 14:21 47:8 49:4 rationale 38:7 18:11 19:11
10:21 prisoner 10:2 49:24 50:1 reading 6:13 15:15 18:19
32:7 47:21 provision 4:17 10:1 32:10,23 reject 25:11
48:16 prisoners 14:21 4:17 5:23 13:1 readings 11:12 rejected 50:4
pro 9:21 50:1 provisions 5:12 reality 28:23 related 24:6
5:2,7,9 50:11,25 41:25 46:10 13:1 42:14 relevant 52:16
7:16 problem 14:4,11 47:18 50:15 51:24 52:25
11:2 28:13 44:1 purpose 6:20 reason 5:10 7:18 relief 4:25 10:22
14:1 45:8 49:17 28:6 12:25 14:25 14:5 15:5
15:3,11 procedural 51:4 purposes 6:10 15:1,6 18:17 16:18,22 18:24
16:16,18 procedure 13:21 28:5 31:19 19:8 27:1 31:7 19:4 25:17
18:18 pursuant 4:1 33:12,22 39:10 39:23 45:22
18:18 proceeding 10:7 pursue 21:1,19 42:8 45:23 46:12,21 54:16
21:16 13:12,20 16:4 40:10 49:17,24,25 relies 47:18
23:10,22 16:8 38:1,2,10 p.m 1:17 3:2 50:1 rely 47:19
51:4 restarted 7:10 30:8 31:14 saying 11:2 sent 10:11,23
47:22 42:11,11,24 38:22,25 39:8 sentence 31:20
results 3:18 54:9,15 says 4:17 5:6 35:15
29:8,23 42:2 34:8 48:21,25 24:13,23,24,25 serve 35:9
47:6,9 retroactivity 49:13,18 54:14 27:11 29:25 set 14:23 18:10
29:19 review 3:13,14 5:13,24 6:19 39:23 52:6 short 19:4 29:7
32:5 4:5,6,19 5:1,9 7:2 10:13 12:7 53:22 51:19
43:10,12 5:16 6:2,3,16 13:10 21:23 Scalia 16:1,11 shortest 27:20
44:8 13:13,15,21,23 26:1 30:6 41:13 42:3,11 shows 20:23
53:6 17:10 21:7,21 40:4 44:12 46:2,7,22 significant 52:3
24:17,19,24 54:22 5:11,22 22:12 sir 13:17 19:23
28:17 30:16,18 role 11:14 SEAN 1:21 2:5 sit 42:10 48:21
32:19,21,25 28:20 29:1 second 5:15 6:9 sitting 16:24
36:2 37:4,9,10 53:12 8:1,7 10:5 11:8 37:2 47:20
38:10 39:7,12 rulings 3:19 19:9,20 20:18 six 16:14,14,22
reviewed 38:6 22:25 26:16 47:24 49:2 Solicitor 1:21
8:8 23:18 54:1 section 3:23 somewhat 31:3
25:18 ride 26:19 49:8 54:1 40:4
8:19 10:14,20 s 2:1 3:1 50:2 26:11 27:5 46:20
2:6 26:4 12:25 13:7,24 Saffold 37:12 seeks 6:15 Souter 26:15
46:6 19:16 20:22 5:4,6 7:5 10:22 sending 35:11 28:12,24 29:5
8:12 15:13 21:15 substance 13:18 terms 4:11 22:15 24:12
10:8 28:18 29:5,10 30:11 47:18 11:10 14:9 25:3,21 27:10
13:8 29:19 30:9,11 54:10 20:20 27:14 36:23 42:3,23
26:13,23 30:23 31:1,3 substantially 30:24 54:16 43:17,24 45:16
30:4 41:24 46:24 12:6 Tex 1:22 49:9 51:3
36:19,19 47:2,5,7,8,11 substantive 20:4 Texas 1:7 3:10 52:11,13,23
48:11 50:5 succeeding 3:11,14 5:7 8:4 thinking 5:23
State's 9:22 successful 13:12 10:10 11:4,11 THOMAS 1:19
32:14 31:9 sufficient 25:18 15:1,2,14 Thompson
statute 3:19,21 suggest 30:7 16:15 17:25 34:21
7:13,15 11:18 14:19 25:16 19:10 21:14 5:10 18:14
8:3 9:8 18:9,11,20 suggests 28:14 23:4,6 25:16 44:12
19:3 22:24 suppose 16:1,2 26:17,18,24 thousand 31:12
26:20 27:7 16:11 31:11 27:10,15,16 31:17 32:2
28:16 32:8 33:5 50:13 28:17 31:4,11 three 5:3 14:20
33:13 36:17 supposed 7:25 31:19,23 32:4 16:19 19:18
46:18 47:10 supposes 25:15 35:25 36:1,10 53:7
16:2,3 48:17,18 52:7 Supreme 1:1,16 37:21 38:13 tie-breaker
staying 17:12 31:23 39:9 48:9,16 22:24
17:6,8,9 step 38:5 sure 6:21 19:17 48:16 52:9,14 time 4:5,18 6:3
Stevens 50:7,11 23:8 30:8 52:17,18,18 6:17,23 7:6,9
19:16 50:23 51:4,5 sustainable 53:8,8,13 54:3 8:12,15,21
22:1,4,5 51:21 10:19 54:18 9:23 10:3 15:2
23:4,12 stop 32:13 switch 13:14 Texas's 26:23 15:18 16:9
24:15 stopped 7:6 system 10:24 text 11:18 14:7 19:14 20:1
27:18 stops 10:25 14:6 42:16,22 14:18 22:22 25:25
29:1 strain 31:8,10 systems 47:2 textual 11:18 27:5 29:10
33:8 strange 20:14 13:8 31:20,24,25
35:1 strict 26:9 35:21 T Thank 26:1 32:20 33:1
36:1,3,6 49:1 T 2:1,1 51:14,19 54:21 37:9 39:1 40:6
38:9,17 strikes 50:23 take 6:3 9:8,25 54:22 40:8,13 43:1,2
strolls 17:17 11:18 12:14 thematic 9:6,10 43:3 44:4 51:6
40:20 structure 22:22 19:13 20:2 14:11 54:1
43:8,8 struggled 5:22 22:4 26:18 theory 47:22 timeframe 29:7
stuck 15:18 29:14 30:14 thing 20:14 timely 14:22
38:16 50:8 51:9,10 violates 25:2 36:24,25 38:14 1
43:7 understood 25:15 34:7 50:12 28:13 31:8
6:9 7:7 undoubtedly W worth 35:14 35:2,2,14,16
30:5 27:17 wait 26:11 43:7 wouldn't 8:22 35:22 41:20
37:9 unexhausted waited 8:17 17:12 22:21 42:3 43:4 44:2
39:8 17:12 35:18,23 36:2 30:21 34:11 45:7,8,12,13
uniform 27:2 49:5,8,25 45:7,24 50:13 45:19 46:1,14
28:20 waits 6:22 46:19 wound 35:11 46:15 47:19,20
34:3 United 1:1,16 48:18,22 51:25 1:58 54:24
28:11
37:1 untimeliness warden 12:17 year 6:16,22,22
7:1,15 9:9 112 50:3
52:10 Washington 12:59 1:17 3:2
14:14 15 23:6 28:11
150 36:10
41:21,22 48:8way 4:24 6:13 19 47:8 52:6
31:13 1997 35:15
32:22 37:5 41:19 40:6,16,21 2 4:15,16 5:12
36:7 V 47:17 41:7 43:5,6 10:24 16:16,23
46:9,10 v 1:5 3:4 5:4 weak 50:19 years 5:2,3 8:18 36:22,24,24
48:22 41:24 44:19 went 20:16 8:23 14:23 37:24 38:14,23
52:4 49:5 50:5 we'll 40:9 17:16 19:18 38:25 40:2,5
53:22 we're 24:25 22:5 23:6 40:12 43:9,14
various 28:18,23 white 25:1 31:17 32:2 20 22:5,14 28:11
54:11 view 4:23 6:1,4 words 26:21 50:1 2244(d)(1)'s
38:11 vindicating 25:8 36:24 39:1 0
1:5 3:4 2244(d)(1)(A)
40:2 violated 25:7 work 33:19 3:23
21:16
2:6
34:18
29:24
2:4
22:14
29:24
34:19
34:18,19
1:13
51:22
8:3
14:3
14:3 28:18
2:9
29:8
