IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
GARY BARTLETT, EXECUTIVE :
DIRECTOR OF THE NORTH :
CAROLINA STATE BOARD OF :
ELECTIONS, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 07-689
DWIGHT STRICKLAND, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 14, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Raleigh, N.C.; on behalf of the Petitioners.
CARL W. THURMAN, III, ESQ., Wilmington, N.C.; on behalf
of the Respondents.
DARYL JOSEFFER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington,
D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
CARL W. THURMAN, III, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 23
DARYL JOSEFFER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondents 40
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear argument
first this morning in Case 07-689, Bartlett v.
Strickland.
Mr. Browning.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. BROWNING: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
The Voting Rights Act should be interpreted in
such a way as to encourage a transition to a society
where race no longer matters. In North Carolina,
coalition districts have been crucial in moving towards
Congress's ultimate goal. Coalition districts bring
races together by fostering political alliances across
racial lines. As a result they serve to diminish racial
polarization over time. Coalition districts help us in
reaching the point where race will no longer matter in
drawing district lines. These districts bring us one
step closer to fulfilling our Nation's moral and ethical
obligation to create an integrated society.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How can you say that
this brings us closer to a situation where race will not
matter when it expands the number of situations in which
redistricting authorities have to consider race?
MR. BROWNING: Well, Your Honor,
Mr. Chief Justice, it will require somewhat an increase
in the number of districts that would be drawn, there is
no question about that, but that increase is not
substantial. But it does cause race to be much less of
a factor in the redistricting process. Currently, if a
General Assembly has a choice between drawing a
coalition district or a majority-minority district, the
50 percent rule that the North Carolina Supreme Court
adopted encourages States to draw a majority-minority
district, and when you do that it causes race to re-
dominate in the process.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me to be
a criticism of the majority-minority district approach
in the first place.
MR. BROWNING: Well, Your Honor, it is a
recognition of the fact that coalition districts allow
us to move away from majority-minority districts and
create districts where races are working together.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about influence
districts?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you move --
you've moved from majority-minority to crossover
districts. Should you continue to move to so-called
influence districts?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, the decision in
LULAC makes clear that influence districts are not
protected under section 2 of the Voting Rights Act.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But under your definition
of coalition district, race is the key factor.
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you are telling us if
we have a rule that makes race the key factor then race
doesn't matter.
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, it is a matter of
-- under the Voting Rights Act, Congress has made clear
that districts should be drawn to protect minority
voting rights. When there are areas of the country
where there is racial polarization, districts -- race
has to be considered in drawing districts that will give
minorities equal opportunity, just as majority --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought you were
proposing a brave new world of coalition districts.
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, and race --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Based on race.
MR. BROWNING: Justice Kennedy, you have to
consider race in drawing these districts. There's no
question about that. That's the very thing that section
2 of the Voting Rights Act requires us to do. And you
do that because there is racial polarization.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's the authority that
says you must consider race in drawing the districts,
assuming that you don't have an existing majority --
minority-majority district? What's the -- what
authority do you cite for the fact that you must
consider race in drawing districts? What do I read to
find that?
MR. BROWNING: Well, Your Honor, that's
certainly the decision in Thornburg v. Gingles. Under
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, that's -- that's a
majority -- majority district.
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor. That was a
majority district. This Court --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Okay. So then what other
case do you have?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, this Court, of
course, has left open the issue of whether the Voting
Rights Act would protect minority --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then your statement
that you must always consider race in drawing districts
is not -- is not supported, or at least it's a new
proposition that you are arguing for us here.
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, my point is when
you are drawing districts under section 2, of course
race has to be considered, but it's considered because
the process is not equally open to minorities.
Unfortunately, North Carolina has a long history of
discrimination, and that discrimination has resulted in
current effects in the voting place. There is racially
polarized voting, as has been stipulated to in this
case. There has been --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I would have
thought the possibility of coalition districts would be
evidence that the Voting Rights Act has succeeded,
rather than evidence that you need to apply it more
broadly.
MR. BROWNING: Mr. Chief Justice, the
coalition districts are certainly evidence that we have
made progress towards Congress's ultimate goal under the
Voting Rights Act, but we are not there yet. In this
district, the expert testimony is that only 15 to 30
percent of whites will vote for a black candidate, and
that is still very racially polarized. But coalition
districts help us to move away. It -- they help to
diminish the amount of racial polarization over time, so
that eventually we won't need to be looking at race at
all in drawing district lines, but where --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I mean, the
obvious question when you say 15 to 30 percent is what
number of crossover voters would you say demonstrates
that you no longer need to consider race in shifting a
coalition district?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, in the Gingles
case, this Court stated that it was a district-by-
district determination. There's no bright-line rule as
to where crossover voting is so great that it doesn't
satisfy the third Gingles prong. Here, however, the
district was --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, it could
be 70 percent that don't vote for a particular
candidate. At some point you have to conclude that it's
based on the candidate rather than on race.
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, at some point
that's true, that it would be issues beyond race, but
here, the expert report and as stipulated to by
Respondents, this voting is racially polarized. There
is some crossover voting, but not enough to say that the
effects of past discrimination have been eliminated.
That crossover voting is sufficient for this district to
work.
JUSTICE ALITO: You can't say where -- how
much crossover voting would be so large as to make a
difference? You can't say where the line is
statistically?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, this Court's,
again, decision in Gingles makes clear that that is a
district-by-district determination.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that -- that has been
stipulated here, right, that you meet the third Gingles
factor? So it's not at issue in this case, but the
point was made that, in one of the cases that you rely
on, in Metts, that reliance on crossovers to prove the
ability to elect the candidate of a racial minority's
choosing undercuts the argument that the majority votes
as a bloc against the minority preferred candidates. So
there's tension between the crossovers on the one hand
and showing that the dominant race votes as a bloc.
MR. BROWNING: Justice Ginsburg, I
completely agree that, at some point, the crossover
voting becomes so great that you no longer have to take
into account district lines. Unfortunately --
JUSTICE ALITO: If that's the case, then --
MR. BROWNING: -- we're not there yet.
JUSTICE ALITO: If that's the case, then
your test imposes a statistical standard just as your
opponent's test does, doesn't it? It's just a different
one.
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor. What we're
proposing and what we think is required by the text of
section 2 is you simply take the existing Gingles
factors and you look at the amount of racially polarized
voting, and from that you are able to readily calculate
the size of the minority group that would be
sufficiently large to elect a minority -- a minority
candidate.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose there is 40 percent
crossover voting, and that's a little bit -- that's not
quite enough for the minority candidate to win.
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, again, whether
the third Gingles prong is satisfied obviously is a
district-by-district determination. Here, however --
JUSTICE ALITO: We can't even say that 40
percent would be sufficient in every instance, that that
might be -- you know, that might not be enough?
MR. BROWNING: I'm hesitant since this Court
has not set a specific limit, and that's, again, an
issue that has been stipulated to in this case. The --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you don't suggest
that if there were 40 percent white crossover voting, we
would find white bloc voting within the Gingles
condition, do you? Do you think that is a serious
possibility?
MR. BROWNING: No, I think it would be very,
very unrealistic that you'd have 40 percent --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but I mean you really
do have an answer to Justice Alito's question.
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the answer?
What percentage of crossover voting would make this not
actionable under section 2?
MR. BROWNING: Again, the third prong is not
an aspect of this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you don't have an
answer to Justice Alito's question?
(Laughter.)
MR. BROWNING: If you are saying that 40
percent is a very high amount of crossover voting, that,
of course, is not our case, where the crossover voting
that is necessary to make this coalition district work
is 18 percent crossover voting.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have racially
polarized voting when you have as high a crossover vote
as 40 percent? I mean, you say, we apply the normal
Gingles factors, but it seems to me 40 percent crossover
is fairly high.
MR. BROWNING: 40 percent is a high number,
and particularly --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you still think that we
can confidently say this is racially polarized?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, here, however,
under this case, there's not 40 percent crossover --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you're opening
yourself to this line of questioning about the third
factor, which is conceded by both sides, so it's not in
issue. But you are opening it by having a test that
looks to the second and third factor and leaves the
first factor out of it. I mean, whether you agree with
it or not, the 50 percent line is bright if you know
what's in and what's out. You don't have any test for
the first factor that's comparable, that would give
district courts and attorneys some degree of security
about how you determine the first factor.
MR. BROWNING: Well, Your Honor, as the
language the Court used in the De Grandy decision is
whether the minority group is sufficiently large to
elect a minority-preferred candidate. There are, of
course, limiting factors on the side of the coalition
district which could be drawn. There are practical
limiting factors and there are legal limitations.
The practical limitation, of course, is in
North Carolina, given what has happened in past
elections, the North Carolina General Assembly
appropriately concluded that a minority group of less
than 40 percent would simply not work, that it would not
be effective to give rise to a minority -- a district in
which minorities elect a minority-preferred candidate.
There's also a legal limitation. In the
Court's decision in LULAC, the Court made clear that
influence districts are not protected by section 2. So
as a result, the minority group will by necessity have
to control its coalition partner; otherwise it would
simply be an influence district. And here at a minority
group of 40 percent, the minority group in the area is
substantially larger than the crossover voting that is
needed to have an ability to elect.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under your theory,
it would be possible to challenge a majority-minority
district on the ground that you could draw a different
coalition district, maybe more than one coalition
district. Let's put it that way.
If you could draw a majority-minority
district and you could draw two crossover districts,
does the Voting Rights Act impose a limit on the choice?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, our position is
that the -- assuming all of the factors under Gingles to
be met, that if you have a minority group that was
packed in to a -- one district, and in its place two
coalition districts could be effectively drawn, and
those districts would actually work and you could meet
all of the other standards under Gingles -- the district
was geographically compact, there is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's an easy -- I
suspect that's a common hypothetical. You could draw a
district with 80 percent minority voters or you could
have, as you have here, two 40 percent districts. And
the Voting Rights Act requires what?
MR. BROWNING: In that situation, assuming
you could meet all of the Gingles factors, that, yes,
that 80 percent district should be drawn as two 40
percent districts.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Aren't you adopting the
principle of maximization?
MR. BROWNING: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Let me ask you this, and
correct me if I am wrong, because it has been a long
time since Gingles came along and I may be forgetting
things. But I -- I thought when you are given the
alternatives you were just giving, one 80 percent and
two 40 percents, that because there is not a principle
of maximization there simply is not an abstract or
bright-line answer to the question; and that in order to
get an answer to the question, you look at all of the
other things that districting authorities look to, and
you see how they add up, whether we are talking about
compactness, congruency with -- with -- with other
political lines, and so on. And unless you look to all
the other things that reasonably can and should be take
into consideration when districting is done, you simply
cannot answer the question, should there be two 40's or
one 80.
Am I wrong?
MR. BROWNING: Well, Justice Souter,
certainly the -- the criteria that you have referred to
have to be part of the districting process.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But they weren't part of
your answer to the Chief Justice.
MR. BROWNING: Well, my point is that when
minorities are basically put in an enclave, in a
separate district but yet it is possible to draw two
districts, two coalition districts, and the other prongs
of Gingles have not been met, so that there is not rough
proportionality throughout the State, yes, the
districting body needs to consider drawing two
districts --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It needs to consider it,
but I thought your answer was it needs to do it. Is
that your answer?
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor, it would
be -- it is our answer that if a district -- if there is
not rough proportionality in a State, there is a
district that is a super-majority and there is no reason
for that super-majority to be in place.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay if there is no reason
for the super-majority. My point is that you cannot
answer the question in the abstract. And when you start
to answer it, as you are doing now, you are going beyond
the abstract and you are getting into facts outside the
mere choice between two 40's and one 80. And that seems
to me to be correct. At least, if it's not correct, you
and I are making the same mistake.
MR. BROWNING: No, Justice Souter, your
point is well taken and I agree that with a hypothetical
like that it's very difficult, unless you are actually
considering the specific situation of the district.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we -- what you
propose is going to inject courts into the drawing of
districts much more frequently than they -- than they
already are injected. The reality is that one of the
factors -- you mentioned contiguousness and county lines
and so forth, but one of the factors that legislators
always take into account is incumbent protection and the
incumbent is always going to rather be in an 80 percent
district than in a so-called 40 percent coalition
district.
I think you are unrealistic to expect State
legislatures to draw districts that way, where everybody
will have a chance. The whole object of it is that
nobody will have a chance, just the incumbents. That's
what is going on.
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, I think what
Congress has required courts to do is to look at the
overall picture of the district. The Congress, in
connection with the section 2 of the Voting Rights Act,
used very broad language, phrases like "totality of
circumstances" and "opportunity to participate and
elect." So clearly, Congress intended for a broad
approach to be taken and a functional one.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's fine, but you
just can't wave a magic wand. It -- Congress also
intended primarily to leave it up to the legislatures
under guidelines, to be sure. And when you have a
choice of one 80 percent or two or even three 40
percent, it's clear to me what the legislature is going
to -- going to choose.
MR. BROWNING: Well, Your Honor, and that's
the very point of the section 2 of the Voting Rights
Act, is when minorities do not have equal opportunity to
elect their candidate of choice, where they are packed
in to districts --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We will be injected into
this very political game much more frequently than we
now are. I have always regarded the 50 percent Gingles
thing as simply a self-protection prescription for the
courts, where you can look, you can be clear and say,
you know, close enough for government work.
But if you want us to figure out whether
there could be three districts, two districts instead of
just one district, you are just, it seems to me, tossing
the whole -- the whole project of drawing districts into
the courts. And that is -- that is not something that
I, for one, favor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: In this case which way
does the presumption favoring what the legislature did
cut? Here the court set aside what the legislature did;
is that not right?
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor, the North
Carolina Supreme Court determined that this district
should not cut county lines. Ironically, that county
line was a county line that was originally created to
segregate blacks in Wilmington, in the southern portion
of the county, from whites in the northern portion of
the county.
So that original discriminatory act is now
being used to keep a district from -- from being a place
that is a district that has a proven ability to elect a
minority --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's something new. I
thought we took the case -- at least I have been
thinking about the case -- on the assumption that there
is a valid State law that is being superseded. Now, if
you are questioning the validity of the State law,
that's something -- that hasn't been raised here, has
it?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, the government
has asserted that there should be a near-50 percent test
which includes as part of it a -- either the district is
close to 50 percent or there is an element of
discrimination.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm talking about, you're
indicating to us that the county line standard that the
State court invoked as a matter of State law is itself
questionable because it was based on a prohibited racial
animus. And I -- I indicated that that's very new to
me. I thought we were taking the case on the
proposition that the county line rule is a neutral,
valid State law principle.
Now, it may or may not be superseded by
the -- by the requirement of section 2. That's what we
are arguing about. But this is the first time I have
heard that we have to somehow question the underlying
State rule under the Fourteenth Amendment.
I thought we took the case on the assumption
that the State rule is valid.
MR. BROWNING: Justice Kennedy, the decision
of the North Carolina Supreme Court is to adopt an
inflexible 50 percent rule. That -- that was the issue
that was resolved on summary judgment by the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm talking about the
county line rule.
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor, that the
county line rule -- the North Carolina Supreme Court
concluded that this district could not cut county lines
because this should not be treated as a section
2 district.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We are fighting
over -- the district that you want to draw, the
crossover district, would have 39 percent
African-American voters. The district that complied
with State law of the county line would have 35 percent.
Where the assumption is that you have a
significant degree of crossover voting, is that really a
difference worth changing the Voting Rights Act
jurisprudence for?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, the plaintiffs
have and the Respondent and the government have referred
to an alternative district that would not cut those
county lines and would have a black voting age
population of 35 percent. The problem with that is
there is absolutely no testimony that that -- their
alternative district would be in any way workable. As a
matter of fact, the undisputed testimony of the joint
appendix at page 73-74 is to the contrary.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you mean by
"workable"?
MR. BROWNING: That this -- that the
district they propose was simply prepared by their
attorney, looking at a map. There is absolutely no
testimony that this would be an effective minority
district, that there would be an equal opportunity for
minorities --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because it's 4
percent less than the district you propose?
MR. BROWNING: Well, it is a matter of the
percentage of voting age population, but more
importantly, the district they drew would have put a
black incumbent, a black Democrat incumbent, in the same
district with a white Republican incumbent. If they
were serious about --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it gets back to
the Justice Scalia's point --
MR. BROWNING: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- that this is
designed to protect incumbents.
MR. BROWNING: Well, Your Honor, incumbency
certainly has to be considered in the context of what
the Voting Rights Act requires us to do, which is to
look at the total picture. Is it a functional approach?
It is a matter of looking -- undertaking a searching
evaluation of the past and present political realities.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Browning, I thought
there was something in the record that said never in
North Carolina's history have you had African Americans
able to choose the -- able to elect the candidate of
their choice where the minority population was less than
38.37 percent.
MR. BROWNING: Justice Ginsburg, there are
districts such as Wake County, the seat of government,
where a minority has been elected with less than 38
percent. But in areas of the State where there is
highly racially polarized voting, 38 percent roughly is
the effective floor that the General Assembly recognized
as being workable for creating a district such as this.
I will also note that this issue was not presented to
the North Carolina Supreme Court, the issue of whether
there is an alternative district that would somehow be
feasible and workable.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, does that mean a
proposal if you succeed, we should remand on that
question?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, that would
certainly be one possibility, but the North Carolina
Supreme Court resolved this straight legal question as
to whether the 50 percent rule is in place and is an --
is an inflexible rule, and not only did they -- they
imposed this rule with respect to this district, they
essentially had a mandatory injunction on the North
Carolina General Assembly to never draw a district at
less than 50 percent if it cuts too many county lines;
and that is even inconsistent with the United States'
view of section 2. For that reason, alone the decision
should be reversed.
If there are no other questions I would like
to reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Browning.
Mr. Thurman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARL W. THURMAN, III,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. THURMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court.
The rule proposed by Petitioners in this
case would effectively require maximization resulting
in, as the Court has recognized, judicial involvement in
many, many more situations.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I don't know why it would
require maximization. It would -- it would certainly
open the door to -- to more districts required by
section 2 than if we have a 50 percent rule. But I -- I
think your brother conceded that when -- when you draw a
district, you are bound by our case law as well as
tradition to look to something more than maximization,
and maximization is in fact not the law. So I don't see
why it would be required.
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, in this situation,
we take the position that the people of North Carolina
and their ultimate authority, their State Constitution,
have spoken and said that county lines should be kept
whole to the extent practical. And the State's position
is the legislators disregarded that and, based on the
cases, based on LULAC, at 25 percent --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What's that got to do with
maximization?
MR. THURMAN: Well, Your Honor, that would
be the position they would take of every district that
could be drawn regardless of the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: There is no question that
if they are -- if they win this case, I think there is
no question there will be more claims requiring -- or
potentially more claims requiring adjustment of lines
based on avoiding section 2 violation. I would almost
think that was common ground. But that is a different
thing from saying that the result of those claims is
going to be a required maximization. And that's --
that's the only point that I -- that I meant to pick --
pick up on.
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, it seems that if
there are going to be more potential claims, and as
every legislative body, school board, city council,
whatever it is, has to follow section 2, they will have
to take this into account. They will be facing
potential claims and they will have to run the risk of
do we look to try to maximize a district that might not
otherwise be required, that might violate a neutral
criteria --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You are saying they will
tend to maximization in order to avoid litigation.
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, I think that is
absolutely true.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why in the -- why in
the world would you stipulate to bloc voting in a
situation where you have nearly 20 percent crossover
voting?
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, the answer to that
question is we were 20 months into the litigation, we
had just received a partial ruling on cross motions for
summary judgment, we were already at the midpoint of the
decade. If this Court should affirm the North Carolina
Supreme Court, my client will have one election in which
they have a district that complies with the North
Carolina Constitution. We quite simply wanted to move
the case along.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it seems
to me you have complicated situations on a rather
critical point, what seems to me a basic conundrum, how
can you have bloc voting and at the same time have
significant crossover voting? You take one of those off
the table, it's kind of hard to address the basic issue
in the case.
MR. THURMAN: I agree, Your Honor. The
other point that I would point out is, it is not a
stipulation that there was sufficient bloc voting within
either of the districts that were drawn. The
stipulation was with reference to bloc voting within the
two counties. The district that could be drawn -- there
is no stipulation that the alternative district does not
comply and would -- and therefore would require the
creation of the 39 percent district.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, since the district is
drawn from the counties and there's a stipulation with
respect to the counties, doesn't it follow in the
absence of some surprising fact that there would be bloc
voting or the stipulation would cover bloc voting in the
district?
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, there are very
different populations in these two counties, and that is
referenced in the record with regards to the growth in
population; and there is very different minority
populations in the two counties because of the influx --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But regardless, regardless
of the -- the variations in mix, if you are stipulating
that there's bloc voting in county A, bloc voting in
county B, and you have got a district made up part of A,
part of B, doesn't it follow in -- in the absence of
some pretty specific evidence to the contrary, that in
the district there is probably going to be bloc voting?
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, I would
respectfully submit that it does not follow within a
particular section of a district. I think we all --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you have evidence in the
record -- did you put evidence in the record that this
particular district is carved from some peculiar section
of county A and county B, so that the general bloc
voting pattern does not apply in the district?
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, there is evidence
in the record, and it is cited in the brief, that
minority candidates, black candidates for judicial
office and for State auditor received between 59 percent
and 62 percent of the vote in the proposed district. We
would respectfully submit that that comprises evidence
that there is not sufficient bloc voting.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you stipulated. You
didn't want to argue the third factor. You wanted --
you just started out by saying you were tired of this
litigation, we wanted to concentrate on one issue and
one issue only, and that was the 50 percent rule. And
now you are suggesting that, well, no, the stipulation
really didn't stipulate away the third factor. I
thought you were giving in on that issue so that you
could get the first issue decided.
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, we did make a
stipulation that there was evidence sufficient to
support a finding and that we would stand by. There was
evidence they had an expert who was willing to so
testify. I was responding to Justice Souter's question
of was there was evidence in the record to support the
contention that there might not be bloc voting within
the alternative district, and that was -- that meant
that black candidates can receive in excess of 60
percent of the vote in the 35 percent district.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But just help me on the
facts, because I may have misunderstood the facts.
You're saying you did not stipulate that there was bloc
voting; you stipulated that there was sufficient
evidence for a factfinder to find that there was bloc
voting. Is that your position?
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, on page 130a of
the -- I believe this is their submission, the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sorry, what -- what's
the color of the brief -- of the cover on this? Is it
the brown one or the white one?
MR. THURMAN: I believe this is the white
one, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, and you're at 130?
JUSTICE SCALIA: 130a?
MR. THURMAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes.
MR. THURMAN: And it starts out that, in
terms of the bloc voting, between the -- and the
evidence presented by the defendant is sufficient to
support a finding of fact that the racial difference in
the presence of those results in the white majority
voting is sufficient as a bloc to defeat the minority's
preferred candidate. And, again, that comes down to --
the court that it was Pender and New Hanover County that
started the action on 29a, and that was the stipulation.
And --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But what do you make of the
-- the beginning of the next paragraph? "Plaintiffs
hereby advise the court that they do not wish to be
heard further or to present evidence regarding the
remaining issues." Doesn't -- I'm not sure what that's
getting at, but when I looked at it, I thought it meant
that the stipulation can control, i.e., it may be found
without objection that there is bloc voting or assumed
without objection that there is bloc voting.
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOUTER: If you don't wish to
present evidence.
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, first of all, we
were not stipulating that it did exist. We stipulated
that it was in evidence, that the court defined --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, I realize, but when
you then say "And we don't wish to present any evidence
on it," it sounds to me as though you are conceding the
issue.
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, we do -- we let it
stand on its own, we not wish to be heard further, we do
not wish to take additional time on that, given the
circumstances of the case.
The other factor that I think is perhaps
most important in considering this is touched on briefly
earlier. Section 2 clearly applies to all
jurisdictions. And without the guidance of the 50
percent rule, the bodies that are drafting are left with
an uncertain standard and a standard -- in this case, so
far as we know, the State had retroactive -- this Court
-- had been used previously, are every local government
body requires paying such an expert to proceed simply to
redistrict? That, if you don't have a clear rule to
follow, presents a problem for the many government
bodies that have to redistrict on a regular basis.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was wrong with the
clear rule that Justice Souter suggested in the LULAC
case?
MR. THURMAN: I'm sorry, ma'am.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Justice Souter, in his
opinion in the LULAC case --
MR. THURMAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- he suggested what he
called a hard-edged -- a clear, hard-edged rule which is
not going to be an exclusive rule, but, anyway, if you
met that standard, you're okay.
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, I certainly am not
criticizing the rule proposed by Justice Souter, but --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's okay.
(Laughter.)
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, I think -- the
perspective -- and I can't help -- that it is not as
clear-edged as it seemed to the Court, at least to
Justice Souter, that the 50 percent rule does provide a
very clear, very limited sort of a rule that can be
followed without getting involved in -- I do believe
that -- race becomes very likely the predominant factor
in the redistricting decision, because based on the
cases that have come before you already, there have been
claims that 26 percent, 25 percent --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't see how those
claims could possibly succeed, but I thought -- let's go
back to sort of step 1. My mind turns a little confused
when I start thinking of these cases. Are we talking
about a case of -- where the claim is normally vote
dilution? Is that yes or no?
MR. THURMAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Section 2 -- does vote
dilution mean we who are a minority group, let's say a
black group, could have elected a candidate of our
choice more likely than the white group, but because you
are engaged in vote dilution, that isn't going to happen
anymore? Is that the form of the claim?
MR. THURMAN: Yes, Your Honor, that is --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the form of the
claim.
Then, it's our problem here that to see
whether that's so, you have to see whether the black
group did really vote as a group. Did they used to have
a good chance to elect the person they want, and does
the white group tend to also vote as a group and swamp
them? Is that what we are trying to find out?
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, I'm not sure that
is entirely what we are trying to find out, because
certainly districts are created where there was no
minority incumbent, and that can happen because of
changes in demographics or a variety --
JUSTICE BREYER: There are a lot of reasons
that can happen. But is the evil we are trying to get
at, the evil of a black group, when they stick together
in polarized voting, having less of a chance of getting
their candidate elected than when the white group does
the same?
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, I believe the
answer is, yes, we are trying to prevent that from
happening.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what we are trying
to prevent? Okay. If that's what we are trying to
prevent, then haven't we learned that putting a
threshold, because you can't even get in the door -- you
can't even get in the door -- unless the black group
accounted for 50 percent of something, the voters or the
people who turn out, that that doesn't make much sense
for the reason that Justice Scalia started with. It
doesn't make much sense because sometimes they account
for 51 percent, but they can't elect anybody, because
they all divide on four different people, or maybe they
didn't turn out. On the other hand, sometimes if they
account for 43 percent, they could elect the candidate
of their choice. So it looks as if that 50 percent is
pretty arbitrary and we're looking for a better
criterion. Is there anything wrong with what I've said
so far?
MR. THURMAN: Respectfully, Your Honor, I
believe there is, because you said you look to see if
there is vote dilution. Well, there needs to be
something to measure that by. Section 5 is about
retrogression.
JUSTICE BREYER: Here what we've -- could we
look to see whether the three Gingles factors, whatever
they are -- one was, is the black group numerous enough
to elect the candidates of their choice? Reasonably
compact, politically cohesive? And then you look to
see, does the white group tend to vote as a bloc to stop
them?
MR. THURMAN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what we should do?
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: Then I'm back to my
problem, that sometimes the 50 percent criteria just
doesn't measure that first part. And so you say, well,
any other matter would be worse, but I bet we could
invent some that were actually better. Suppose you
wouldn't have to go to 20 percent; suppose, for example,
you started looking in the 40 percents, and you said,
you know, if the black group is going to elect their
candidate with 40 percent, or 45 percent even, they're
going to need a lot of crossovers, because they may only
vote -- you know, only 80 percent may turn out. They
are going to need a lot of crossovers. And the more
crossovers you have to have, the harder it is to say
that that white group is out there trying to beat them.
So there's a kind of natural stopping place.
When I worked out the numbers, it seemed that natural
stopping place fell around 42-43 percent. It sort of
fell -- as you said, that the black group -- you insist
that the black group had to be twice as many as the
white group that crossed over. A little arbitrary, but
at least we were getting to the same -- to the right
thing. I mean -- respond as you wish.
MR. THURMAN: Thank you, Your Honor. It may
take me a second to take it all in. It seems to me that
the reason the 50 percent rule does work is, at 50
percent, there is a claim that there is the opportunity
and there is voter registration, voter turnout, a lot of
factors that can influence at that point, but that
doesn't prevent there from being opportunity. That's
the choice of whatever group is involved. You start
dropping below 50 percent, and then they're not being
denied an equal opportunity. They have the same
opportunity any other group does. This would require
trying to -- because what -- basically the Petitioner's
position is -- the State in its -- position is, it takes
a minority group, and then you find presumably another
majority group that shares political and partisan goals
with them, and you combine those two together. So you
look not only to the race of one group -- that
predominates first. Then you go find like-minded
members of the majority group to join with them. And so
that is what is being required. At that point you are
not talking about them being treated less equal than
anyone else.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Thurman, can I ask you
this question? It seems to me that a rigid 51 percent
rule assumes that the minority communities throughout
the country are all alike, and that there is enough
variety in every district and every part of the country
where we have this problem. There are variations.
Maybe 51 percent would not be enough. The minority
group might, itself, be divided as is often the case.
I -- I think the underlying premise -- the
underlying -- the premise underlying your argument is
that all minorities are exactly alike. That's why we
can have this mathematical figure, and that answers the
question.
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, I categorically
reject that as a human-rights basis for our argument.
That is handled by the third Gingles prong and the
second Gingles prong. And when you look at what the
coalition is, what it is, and you look at how
politically cohesive it is. So it could be that 50
percent is arguably not enough under the second Gingles
provision.
But that until you get to 50 percent, you
are -- again, it is the way it has been described as a
gate-keeping function for us to keep the Court out of
it. And it is going to -- if this happens, you start
looking at combining a combination of race or other
minority status and partisan politics and combining them
together for the purpose of electing particular
candidates. And I do not believe it's ever been
something that this Court has endorsed for the purpose
of the Voting Rights Act. And if that is the position
it takes, it starts to run into the issue: Is such
supportable under the Solomon case, under equal
protection?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What -- what
Justice Breyer proposed a rule at the end of his
question. He said: Suppose you make it, the threshold,
instead of 50 percent, it would be twice as many in the
African-American population as in the crossover group.
That would be the threshold.
MR. THURMAN: But, Your Honor, first, I
believe as he said, as Justice Breyer said, that's an
arbitrary number that he picked up on, the 50 percent.
The reason we would submit that is not simply an
arbitrary number is that it does deal with them. At
that point there is an opportunity, regardless of
whether there is the -- what it certainly does not
exist --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But -- but you are saying
it's an opportunity, and what you mean is it is
sufficient to provide an opportunity. And
Justice Breyer's question is: Isn't the two-to-one
ratio something that we should consider as also being
sufficient to provide an opportunity?
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, I would say that
that would not be appropriate, because at that point you
are looking on -- at the basis of race to give one group
a greater opportunity than another, and the Voting
Rights Act is the one group being given less opportunity
than another. And so if you are hinting to draw a
district that bases itself on race, that attempts to
give one group --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it's -- it's a
greater opportunity than -- than would be given to them
in -- in the district or a pair of districts that splits
the minority population in half. But how is it in some
abstract sense a greater opportunity?
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOUTER: The opportunities are --
are measured on the ground, not in the abstract.
MR. THURMAN: Your Honor, my answer to that
would be that the -- what would be proposed is it is
required. It is no longer left up to the legislature to
decide whether that is appropriate. And that since it
is a requirement, that is not part of the political
process; and it goes to whether that is -- they are no
longer looking to what they have left, but whether they
are, in fact, given more.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Joseffer?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DARYL JOSEFFER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
MR. JOSEFFER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Petitioner has proposed expansion of section
2's traditional coverage because of three serious
problems. The first is to provide State and local
legislatures, as well as the courts, with a baseline
against which to when a section 2 District must be drawn
in the first place, when to engage in this race-
conscious exercise in the first place.
Second, it raises the serious Constitutional
concerns identified in LULAC, especially because it
combines not only racial gerrymandering but with
political-party gerrymandering all at the same time.
And third, it requires difficult predictive
judgments about how people would react, how people would
vote in a future proposed district, something that is
not required under the traditional Gingles analysis.
And these problems would exist nationwide
because section 2 applies to every districting done in
every jurisdiction and every -- nationwide, be it a
county, city, or locality or down to the school-board or
city-council level.
Now, under the first of those points, under
the traditional Gingles test, the scope of consideration
of race and other things, as well as the majority limit
of the districts -- and that provides an -- an easy
focal point that anyone drawing a district knows.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you were
conceding that it isn't a rigid rule, and that the North
Carolina Supreme Court should have to be -- I mean they
could be 48 percent, I think you said.
MR. JOSEFFER: We have identified two
narrow exceptions, neither of which the Court really
needs to reach in this case. The first is an inference
of intentional discrimination. And the important thing
there is, first, that's academic. Because if you can
prove intentional discrimination, you can proceed with a
constitutional claim under section 2 and not add
anything anyway.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Intentional by those who
draw the district?
MR. JOSEFFER: Yes, exactly. And there --
the point here is because it's not an actualization
statute, one needs a baseline to determine if there is
the denial of an equal opportunity to elect. And if, in
fact, what the people drawing the district were trying
to do was to deprive the minority group of that
opportunity, that is a perfectly good alternative
baseline.
Our other proposed narrow exception, which
also is not even close to being implicated here, is
basically an evidentiary one: That there are those
cases where, when you are trying to figure out whether
the majority population is above 50 percent, you may not
be sure because these are estimates. They are very
reliable, but we would impose about a two percent
cushion there to adjust -- to account for the
possibility that if there is that much evidentiary
uncertainty, it makes sense to have a -- for purposes of
that test. However --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I don't know if you
litigate whether you are -- whether you are really
talking about a -- a possible two percent variation. So
that I mean, I -- I think you have to concede under your
-- under your test that there's going to be more
litigation. There is going to be more claims than there
are under a 50 percent rule.
MR. JOSEFFER: Well, because -- I say
actually the opposite because -- well, I think that
trying to determine 48percent raises no more difficulty
than trying to determine 50 percent.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Except that you have a
better chance so you are more likely to do it.
MR. JOSEFFER: There is -- there is a slight
narrowing of the -- of the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Two percent is pretty big
in an election.
MR. JOSEFFER: Well, in -- in practice -- I
mean, remember, the majority-minority rule has been
followed in almost every jurisdiction nationwide for
more than two decades, and so far I have seen one 48
percent case. There may have been others, but there --
there don't seem to have been very many.
JUSTICE BREYER: If you want an absolute,
arbitrary rule, which is what you were heading toward
which will just -- - the question is whether they get in
the door. If they are in the door, they have to prove
the three factors. And you want to keep certain people
out.
Okay. Suppose you say, well, 42 percent.
That gives you down to 40, with your two back, instead
of 50. But you are out anyway if the crossover vote
from the white majority is more than half of what the
whole vote is with the black and white together on that
side. So you have a two-to-one ratio.
Now, the only virtue of that is that there
was an effort to try to get an arbitrary rule, which you
have with your 50 percent, even -- only a little bit
more difficult than that to -- to administer, and is
likely to get in more cases that are justified. But
they still have to prove their three factors.
MR. JOSEFFER: Well, there -- there are a
couple of things. The first is that, textually
speaking, what the statute refers to is an equal
opportunity to elect the -- the representative of their
choice. And at least the most principal blind is the
majority-minority rule. Because if you have by
yourselves the majority of the electorate, you have at
least in theory the opportunity to elect the
representative of your choice. When you go beyond that,
there really is at that point --
JUSTICE BREYER: It takes into account the
realistic fact that in every group, including lots of
African-American groups, there is -- it is not
100 percent African American at all. There are -- there
are a few others who will come along, and -- and that's
still the candidate of that community's choice.
MR. JOSEFFER: Right. But that's --
JUSTICE BREYER: So we want -- a little
flexibility here is all that I'm suggesting.
MR. JOSEFFER: Yes. The problem is once you
go below what is at least in principle a 50 percent
line, it's not clear where -- where one would ever stop.
And under your approach, I think two exceptions: One,
you definitely open the door down to potentially below
42, especially -- in this case, especially --
JUSTICE BREYER: You can't get below 42.
I'm not going to get below 40 no matter what, even with
your thumb on the scale.
MR. JOSEFFER: I mean --
JUSTICE BREYER: They are -- they are
finished at 40, and they are not even in at 40, if they
have to depend more than two-to-one on the crossovers.
MR. JOSEFFER: One problem with what you are
looking for is a principle rule that can be justified.
I understand 50, and I understand the slight evidentiary
cushion. Forty-two really does -- from what you're
trying to determine is now the equal opportunity to be
coming out of nowhere.
The other advantage the 50 percent rule has
is the advantages of incumbency. In effect, it has been
a case that has been litigated for more than two
decades. And that has shown that, first, that it's
workable; and second, that it does not appear to have
left some gaping hole of section 2's coverage. If it
had, Congress likely would have -- statute over the past
two decades.
And the other thing -- I'm sorry.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I won -- I'd hoped that
you could have a brief time to discuss your third
rationale because it's going to require determination of
how people would vote.
MR. JOSEFFER: Under Gingles one typically
looks at what actually happened in the past. The third
Gingles factor looks, for example, looks to whether
white bloc voting in actual elections has generally been
sufficient to prevent the election of minority group's
candidate of choice in the past. So, it's a
straightforward historic-based inquiry.
Here, however, the state or local
legislature at the outset looking to trade a new
district based on the prediction that it will elect the
minority group's candidate of choice.
So, as a practical matter, you start with
the racial makeup of some people and the political
partisanship of others. But you can't stop there,
because you have to predict turnout by each group,
crossover voting by each group.
As a practical matter, those things will
vary based on who the candidates are, whether there is
an incumbent, whether the incumbent is the minority
group's candidate of choice. And especially in local
elections, the -- may not even be available, which was a
point that was made in the topside amicus brief filed by
the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights, the NAACP Legal
Defense Fund and others.
If I could turn to the Constitutional --
point. In that perspective, this proposal is really the
worst of all worlds, because the way you construct a
district is to take some people based on race, others
based on political party affiliation, and the race can't
dominate and the majority of courts have also held
purely partisan gerrymandering, at least -- aside is
also unconstitutional.
But this is both. What you have is
nationwide in every jurisdiction, every districting a
mandate that requires consideration for both race and
partisanship that goes far beyond what has traditionally
been required under section 2 and I suspected far beyond
what normally happens at the local level.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you have a view
on how we should approach the stipulation adopted below?
MR. JOSEFFER: I think the easy way to cut
through is that a state Supreme Court respond and remand
all arguments other than the first Gingles factor. So,
the first Gingles factor, based on what happened in the
state Supreme Court is the only thing that is before the
Court.
What would remain potentially unremand is if
this Court were to would ban the traditional
understanding of the first Gingles factor and impose a
new understanding. Then the adjudication of that might
be open on remand. But Respondents have remanded
everything else in the state Supreme Court.
Finally, I also can't help but mention that
there is a great irony here in that Petitioners'
essential position is that back when race relations were
worse and back when there's much more racial bloc
voting, minority-majority districts worked okay.
But now that race relations have improved
and there is much more crossover voting, we should now
require greater consideration of race as well as
partisanship than had ever been done before under the
same unamended statute.
And if I could turn -- Justice's -- at the
outset, a state or local legislature as well as the
court really doesn't know where to start. State and
local legislatures are the ones who are supposed to be
drawing these lines. That means they need to be clear
administrable rules to follow. And the simpler they
are, the better the chance we will have to do it, and if
they can figure it out at the outset, the less
consideration of race and partisanship becomes
necessary.
And the 50 percent rule, as a practical
matter, has worked for a couple of decades in this
respect. And if one goes beyond that, there is also no
principle stopping point. Here's 39 percent, which
doesn't seem close to me or under Justice Breyer's
rationale --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You mention how well it
worked. Did you see the graphs -- one of Amicus briefs
have the graph showing what the 50 percent rule did for
one gerrymander and how the lesser percentage worked
out -- remember which were much more -- not using the 50
percent rule produced much more compact districts?
MR. JOSEFFER: There are two things about
the graphs. The first is that less compact maps --
those were the districts that would determine the
unconstitutional.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But they were designed to
produce 50 percent, and that's why they got so -- so --
so grotesque.
MR. JOSEFFER: Right. Another thing there
seems to be a common misconception that our view of
section 2 prohibits the drafting of crossover districts,
which is not case of all.
The question here is what if it is required.
If a district -- if a jurisdiction wants to draw a
crossover district, then at least in principle nothing
is stopping it from doing so. However, if what you were
to do was require the drawing these crossover districts,
that could create some funny maps of its own, because if
you have to reach out to grab jurisdiction wide, look at
every significant pocket of minority voters, look at
whatever you could put together that would vote alike,
which as a practical matter is the same political party,
then you are going to be requiring the same dynamics
that led to those very strange maps in the -- in the
first place.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you Mr.
Joseffer.
Mr. Browning, you have four minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. BROWNING: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Let me start first of all with
Justice Breyer's question about the arbitrary nature of
the 50 percent rule. The 50 percent rule, let there be
no doubt, is extremely arbitrary, even under the
government's 2 percent cushion.
What would happen is you have a district
that is 40 percent -- 46 percent African American, that
district could be freely carved off into two districts
of 23 percent each, neither of which would provide an
equal opportunity to elect. Even when you are in a
situation like this case, where the district is actually
functioning and has a proven ability to elect a minority
preferred candidate. Moreover --
JUSTICE ALITO: Wouldn't Justice Breyer's 40
percent rule be just as arbitrary?
MR. BROWNING: Justice Alito, it is
important to recognize that there are significant
districts that are out there that would not be protected
under the 50 percent rule. And I understand the Court's
desire to have some sort of limitation on the size of
the district. We believe it is already in there, in
place as a result of the LULAC decision.
It's in place because in North Carolina, as
a practical matter, you can't go much below 40 percent
and have a district that will actually work.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this -- but yours is
below? Just slightly below.
MR. BROWNING: The voting age population is
39.36 percent based upon the census data. The
government wants to use a 2 percent cushion as their
threshold. But there is some significant problems with
that, because when you look at the overcount of white
voters, the Census Bureau recognizes the lower count is
basically 2 percent there in and of itself, then there
are some undercounted black voters is a 1 percent
undercount. So even a 48 percent doesn't even get
anywhere close.
Moreover, you have districts where there are
a number of eligible -- number of people that are
counted in the census that are not truly eligible to
vote. That is reflected in the brief by the States at
page 28 in footnote 2. The States make the point that
there are many districts where we have military bases,
we have colleges that cause this to be an extremely
arbitrary rule.
And in North Carolina there are districts
where once you remove the military base where most of
the population will not be voting in that district,
there is a shift of even 12 percent in the minority
voting age population increasing by 12 percent once you
just remove the military bases from the equation.
JUSTICE BREYER: The rule I suggested,
though there are arbitrary aspects is a better targeted,
more administrable -- or equally administrable or not
much worse administrable arbitrary rule.
MR. BROWNING: Justice Breyer, in our view
the rule that should be applied is consistent with the
rule of LULAC, that the minority group is substantially
larger than its coalition partner.
Here the minority group is 39.36 percent
African American. It only requires an additional
roughly 11 percent white crossover voting. So the white
crossover voting that is needed is only a third of the
size of the minority group.
JUSTICE BREYER: There must be somebody
there to get you over 50 percent.
MR. BROWNING: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE BREYER: Thirty-three plus 11 is 44.
So where does the rest come from?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, this district is
39.36 percent African American.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's 40, and then -- oh,
I see, 39 plus 11.
MR. BROWNING: And you need 11 percent
crossover voting, 11 percent of the electorate --
JUSTICE BREYER: If they vote cohesively.
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor. Here the
minority group, the expert's testimony is that they do
vote cohesively.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it's a necessary
predicate to his very question that the majority group,
the white group does not vote cohesively. Under your
hypothetical at least 11 percent have to swing over.
MR. BROWNING: The -- the white vote does
not vote 100 percent cohesively. But it is still at
such high levels, there is only a limited amount of
crossover voting. It is still very racially polarized.
And if district lines are not taken into account, the --
the votes of black voters in the district will be
drowned out by the white voters that are voting against
that minority candidate simply because that candidate is
a minority.
There is some crossover voting, but not
enough to make the -- for us to lose on the third
Gingles prong.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:07 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
19:3 adopting 14:14 15:7,14,24,25 12:25 22:24 beat 36:3
advantage 46:7 16:2,8,9 26:7 23:15 beginning 30:13
advise 30:14 answers 37:20 Assistant 1:22 1:24 2:4,6,8,12
55:8 affirm 26:11 anymore 33:9 assumes 37:11 51:8
45:7 51:16 42:6 44:9 13:23 14:10 32:17 34:5
26:1 20:21 38:22 1:17 attempts 39:19 bet 35:18
39:25 age 21:5,22 applied 53:16 attorneys 12:14 35:19 43:15
52:12 53:9 applies 31:12 auditor 28:11 49:13 53:12
25:18 AL 1:6,9 28:7 authority 6:3,7 48:6 49:19
42:24 alike 37:12,19 approach 4:15 24:19 big 43:18
54:22 50:23 17:15 22:10 available 47:15 bit 10:10 44:15
7:12,18 51:23,25 39:14 40:7 a.m 1:16 3:2 29:8 33:6,14
14:9 Alito's 11:4,12 appropriately 55:7 34:1,12 35:7
19:1 alliances 3:16 13:1 35:22 36:7,8
22:9
39:17 alternative 21:4 36:9 39:1,3 B 27:21,22 28:6 54:23
Amendment areas 5:15 22:22 Bartlett 1:3 3:4 26:25 27:2,10
51:16 53:20 arguing 6:25 19:20 24:22,23 29:12,14 30:3
22:15 2:2,10 3:3,7 48:13 52:13 48:25
amount 7:23 arguments 53:10 25:16 31:18
53:13,13 54:20 aside 18:17 basically 15:16 brave 5:20
analysis 41:9 47:25 36:23 42:19 Breyer 32:22
35:5,13 called 32:5 census 52:13,17 36:15 42:5 37:11
38:19,25 candidate 7:20 52:24 claims 25:6,7,10 community's
45:4,11 8:14,15 9:11 certain 44:5 25:15,19 32:21 45:9
53:11 10:8,11 12:19 certainly 6:11 32:23 43:8 compact 14:4
54:2 13:4 18:1 7:16 15:11 clear 5:4,13 9:4 35:9 50:3,5
22:16 30:8 22:8 23:9 24:9 13:6 17:21 compactness
51:11,23 35:23 45:9 39:5 32:5,16 45:15 comparable
47:16 51:22 54:25,25 chance 17:5,6 clearly 17:14 completely 9:17
candidates 9:13 33:16 34:2 31:12 complicated
23:25 4:3,14,21,24 42:18 49:21 comprises 28:13
3:6,7,9 Carolina's 51:3,9 54:14 13:17 14:1 concerns 41:3
5:3,8 22:15 55:5 15:18 17:1 conclude 8:14
carved 28:5 choice 4:8 13:21 38:1 53:18 concluded 13:1
7:1 51:17 16:11 17:20 cohesive 35:9 20:15
8:6,16 9:3 case 3:4 6:18 7:9 18:1 22:17 38:2 condition 10:24
10:1 8:7 9:8,20,22 33:7 34:21 cohesively 54:10 confidently 12:2
11:1 10:20 11:10,16 35:8 36:19 54:13,16,19 confused 32:24
12:4 18:15 44:23 45:2,9 colleges 53:3 Congress 5:13
13:22 19:6,7,22 20:5 46:25 47:5,14 color 29:19 17:9,10,14,17
15:10 24:5,13 25:5 choose 17:22 combination 46:13
16:1,14 26:15,22 31:9 22:16 38:9 Congress's 3:15
18:19 31:15,24 32:2 choosing 9:12 combine 37:2 7:17
20:7,13 33:1 37:16 CHRISTOPH... combines 41:4 congruency
38:16 42:1 1:18 2:3,11 3:7 combining 38:9 15:3
43:24 45:18 51:7 38:10 connection
51:5,7 46:9 50:14 circumstances come 32:20 45:8 17:11
52:12 51:20 55:6,7 17:13 31:9 54:3 conscious 41:1
54:1,4,8 cases 9:9 24:23 cite 6:7 comes 30:8 consider 4:1
32:20,25 42:20 cited 28:9 coming 46:6 5:24 6:4,8,23
22:8 3:10 4:10 6:16 54:21 55:2 denial 42:12 14:3,7,12
31:11 12:17 13:6 9:14 35:24 Department 16:17 17:1,2
26:14 23:10 24:3,6 CURAE 40:16 deprive 42:14 20:15,17,19,20
42:5 30:14 31:1,16 current 7:7 designed 22:6 21:14,17,20,23
32:14 38:7,13 Currently 4:7 50:8 21:25 22:25
16:19 17:9 20:15 21:4 determine 12:15 28:2,5,7,12
Court's 9:3 13:6 determined 41:8,19 42:8
cover 27:11 D 3:1 difference 9:1 50:16,17 51:15
coverage 40:21 2:7 40:14 different 9:24 52:9 53:7 54:4
create 3:22 4:20 De 12:17 27:14,16 34:18 districting 15:1
33:21 decades 43:23 difficulty 43:12 districts 3:14,15
25:22 35:16 decision 5:3 7:23 5:20,24 6:4,8
critical 26:18 13:6 20:7 discrimination 7:22 13:7,20
criticizing 32:9 52:6 19:16 42:2,4 15:18,18,22
19:18,23 cross 26:9 defeat 30:7 discriminatory 16:20 17:4
crossed 36:9 defendant 30:4 19:1 18:2,10,10,12
22:20 crossover 4:25 Defense 47:18 discuss 46:17 22:20 24:10
24:20 8:3,9,20,22,25 defined 31:1 disregarded 27:1 33:21
28:6 9:17 10:10,22 definitely 45:17 24:22 39:23 41:18
30:9 11:7,15,16,18 definition 5:6 district 3:20 4:9 49:1 50:3,6,13
11:20,22 12:4 degree 12:14 4:9,12,15 5:7 50:19 51:17
20:24 26:5,20 Democrat 21:24 7:25 8:5,8,11 district-by 8:7
11:16 47:10 49:3 33:23 11:17 12:14,21 9:5 10:14
50:13,17,19 demonstrates 13:3,10,16,17 divide 34:18
17:14 18:1 evidence 7:12,13 48:12,13,18 forgetting 14:19
44:4 33:16 34:17,20 28:3,4,8,13 11:22 12:20,22 forth 16:23
45:17 35:8,22 42:12 29:1,3,5,14 13:23 14:11 Forty-two 46:4
elected 22:21 evidentiary facts 16:10 four 34:18 51:5
14:6 electing 38:11 evil 33:25 34:1 fairly 11:23 freely 51:17
17:4 election 26:12 exactly 37:19 far 31:16 34:24 frequently
23:15 43:19 46:24 42:9 43:23 48:5,6 16:20 18:4
39:18 elections 1:6 example 35:20 favor 18:14 fulfilling 3:21
50:16 12:25 46:23 46:22 favoring 18:16 function 38:7
5:17,24 6:4 electorate 44:25 exceptions fell 36:6,7 22:10
7:2,25
41:25 45:16 fighting 20:18 functioning
16:19 element 19:15 excess 29:8 figure 18:9 51:21
41:19 eligible 52:23,24 exclusive 32:6 37:20 42:20 Fund 47:18
49:11 eliminated 8:21 EXECUTIVE 49:14 funny 50:20
enclave 15:16 1:3 filed 47:16 further 30:15
14:1,12 encourages 4:11 exist 30:25 39:6 find 6:9 10:23 future 41:8
27:1,3,8 endorsed 38:13 41:10 29:14 33:18,20
engage 40:25 existing 6:5 10:3 36:25 37:4 G
51:19 extent 24:21 20:2 28:24 38:7
45:18,18 47:14 facing 25:18 44:20 46:10 generally 46:23
22:24 essential 48:24 27:10 30:5 flexibility 45:12 gerrymander
estimates 42:22 45:5 focal 41:19 gerrymanderi...
32:17 government's 48:7 37:23 injunction 23:14
36:10 51:14 hard 26:21 hypothetical inquiry 47:1
9:4,7 10:3 Grandy 12:17 hard-edged 32:5 54:17 instance 10:16
11:22 graph 49:25 32:5 integrated 3:22
14:3,11 graphs 49:24 heading 44:2 I intended 17:14
15:19 50:5 hear 3:3 identified 41:3 17:18
35:6 great 8:9 9:18 heard 20:3 41:24 intentional 42:2
38:3 48:23 30:15 31:7 III 1:20 2:5 42:4,7
46:20 greater 39:16,22 held 47:24 23:25 interpreted 3:11
48:12,13 39:25 49:4 help 3:18 7:22 implicated invent 35:19
55:4 grotesque 50:10 7:22 29:10 42:18 invoked 19:19
22:13,19 25:9 40:3 hesitant 10:18 42:2 52:1 36:19
28:16 group 10:6 high 11:15,20,23 importantly involvement
32:1,4 12:18 13:1,8 11:24 54:20 21:23 24:6
41:20 13:11,11,24 highly 22:23 impose 13:21 Ironically 18:21
33:5,6,7,15,15 hinting 39:18 42:23 48:18 irony 48:23
39:15,20 34:3,12 35:7 47:1 imposes 9:23 10:20 12:8
31:8 36:7,8,9,19,22 22:15 includes 19:14 26:21 28:19,20
40:11 36:25 37:1,3,5 hole 46:12 including 45:5 28:23,24 31:5
42:14 45:5 6:10,15,19 7:1 increase 4:3,5 30:16
45:2,14 53:19,23 54:12 10:12 11:5 incumbency
54:15,16 12:3,16 13:22 22:7 46:8 J
growth 27:15 21:2 22:7 23:8 47:13,13 40:13,14,18
27:24 27:13,25 28:8 indicated 19:21 44:19 45:10,13
33:8 H 28:25 29:16,22 indicating 19:18 45:22 46:1,20
36:1 half 39:24 44:10 29:25 30:21,24 inference 42:1 48:10 50:4,11
43:7,8 hand 9:14 34:19 31:6 32:3,8,12 inflexible 20:9 51:4
46:18 handled 37:24 33:3,10,19 23:12 JR 1:18 2:3,11
Hanover 30:9 34:5,25 35:12 influence 4:21 3:7
33:25 51:15 37:22 38:24 36:17 26:10
19:12 46:21 48:13 54:4,11 inject 16:19 judicial 24:6
22:20 happening 34:7 hoped 46:16
52:14
43:22 51:23,23,25 legislative 25:16 48:7 49:8,10 mandate 48:4
50:16,21 52:10 53:11,15 legislators 16:23 locality 41:13 mandatory
54:10,14 55:5 legislature longer 3:13,19 map 21:15
justified 44:17 40:6 47:3 49:8 40:10 51:1
4:3,14 17:18 40:23 15:1,4 17:9 37:20
5:6,9 K 49:10 18:7 22:10 matter 1:14 3:19
6:3 keep 19:2 38:7 lesser 50:1 24:14 25:20 3:25 5:11,12
44:5 let's 13:18 32:23 35:1,6,9 37:3 19:19 21:9,21
8:1,12 Kennedy 5:6,9 33:5 37:25 38:1 22:11 35:18
9:6,16,20 5:19,22,23 6:3 level 41:14 48:7 50:21,22 52:16 45:20 47:6,11
10:9,15 6:13,17,22 levels 54:20 looked 30:17 49:18 50:24
11:3,4,6 19:5,17 20:7 like-minded looking 7:24 52:8 55:8
20:11 42:7 37:4 21:15 22:11 matters 3:13
13:14 46:16 limit 10:19 34:22 35:21 maximization
kept 24:20 13:21 41:17 38:9 39:15 14:15,23 24:5
key 5:7,10 limitation 12:23 40:10 46:2 24:9,14,15,25
kind 26:21 36:4 13:5 52:4 47:3 25:11,24
18:3,15 know 10:17 limitations looks 12:9 34:21maximize 25:20
20:7 12:11 18:8 12:22 46:21,22,22 ma'am 31:25
21:11 24:8 31:16 limited 32:16 lose 55:3 mean 8:1 11:3
22:2,3,5 35:22,25 43:3 54:20 lot 33:24 35:24 11:21 12:10
23:5 49:9 limiting 12:20 36:1,16 21:11 23:5
24:2,8 knows 41:19 12:22 lots 45:5 33:5 36:11
25:4,23 line 9:1 12:6,11 lower 52:17 39:8 41:22
27:7 L 18:22,22 19:18 LULAC 5:4 43:6,21 45:22
28:3,15 language 12:17 19:23 20:12,14 13:6 24:23 means 49:11
29:4,10 17:12 20:22 45:15 31:23 32:2 meant 25:12
large 8:25 10:7 lines 3:17,20 41:3 52:6 29:7 30:17
12:18 7:25 9:19 15:4 53:17 measure 35:3,17
larger 13:12 16:22 18:21 measured 40:3
53:18 20:15 21:5 M meet 9:7 14:2,11
33:4 Laughter 11:13 23:16 24:20 magic 17:17 members 37:5
34:8 32:11 25:7 49:11 majority 5:18 mention 48:22
35:5,13 law 19:8,9,19,24 54:22 6:5,14,14,16 49:23
37:9 20:22 24:13,15 litigate 43:4 9:12 30:6 37:1 mentioned
Lawyers 47:17 litigated 46:9 37:5 41:17 16:22
learned 34:10 litigation 25:24 42:21 44:10,25 mere 16:11
leave 17:18 26:8 28:19 47:24 54:15 met 13:24 15:19
42:7 leaves 12:9 43:8 majority-min... 32:7
led 51:1 little 10:10 4:9,11,15,19 Metts 9:10
45:4,11 left 6:20 31:14 32:24 36:9 4:25 13:15,19 midpoint 26:10
46:16 40:6,10 46:12 44:15 45:11 43:21 44:24 military 53:2,6
49:21,23 legal 12:22 13:5 local 31:17 makeup 47:7 53:10
51:3,9,11 23:10 47:17 40:22 47:2,14 making 16:13 mind 32:24
13:4 15:16 nationwide O P 18:5 19:13,15
21:18 41:10,12 43:22 O 2:1 3:1 P 3:1 20:9,20,22
48:3 object 17:5 packed 13:25 21:6,20 22:18
9:13 10:6 natural 36:4,5 30:20 page 2:2 21:10 23:16 24:11,23
nature 51:11 obligation 3:22 29:16 53:1 26:5 27:6
13:1,3,8 nearly 26:5 obvious 8:2 pair 39:23 28:11,12,20
near-50 19:13 obviously 10:13 paragraph 29:9,9 31:14
19:4 necessary 11:17 October 1:12 30:13 32:15,21,21
22:17,21 49:16 54:14 office 28:11 part 15:12,13 34:13,17,20,21
28:10 necessity 13:8 oh 54:6 19:14 27:21,22 35:16,20,23,23
36:25 need 7:13,24 8:4 okay 6:17 16:6 35:17 37:13 35:25 36:6,14
38:10 35:24 36:1 26:2 29:23 40:8 36:15,20 37:10
42:14 49:11 54:8 32:7,10 34:9 partial 26:9 37:15 38:3,5
47:5,13 needed 13:13 44:7 49:1 participate 38:21 39:1
51:21 53:22 once 45:13 53:6 17:13 41:23 42:21,23
needs 15:21,23 53:9 particular 8:13 43:5,9,13,18
55:1 15:24 35:2 ones 49:10 28:2,5 38:11 43:24 44:7,15
neither 41:25 24:10 45:17 11:25 49:17,20,25
49:1 neutral 19:23 opening 12:5,8 38:10 47:25 51:12,14,16,16
13:4 never 22:14 opponent's 9:24 47:8 48:5 49:5 52:8,13,14,18
19:5,21 30:9 opportunity 53:18 54:5,8,9,17,19
normally 33:1 36:21,22 39:4 pattern 28:7 percents 14:22
7:22 26:14 24:18 26:11,13 oral 1:14 2:2 3:7 44:5 46:19 Petitioners 1:7
numbers 36:5 outside 16:10 14:7,8,12,13 picked 39:1
N.C 1:19,20 overcount 52:16 17:1,20,21 22:10
16:5 portion 18:23,24 prevent 34:6,9 protect 5:14 5:10,16,21,22
23:11 position 13:22 34:10 36:18 6:21 22:6 5:24 6:4,8,23
40:25 24:18,21 25:2 46:24 protected 5:5 7:3,24 8:4,15
51:2 52:6 29:15 36:24,24 previously 13:7 52:2 8:17 9:15
38:14 48:24 31:17 protection 16:24 32:18 37:3
10:25 23:9 principal 44:23 prove 9:10 42:4 40:25 41:17
possible 13:15 14:22 19:24 proven 19:3 48:24 49:2,4
9:9,17 25:19 problem 21:6 51:18 5:16 6:2 7:23
16:7,15 potentially 25:7 31:20 33:13 provides 41:18 9:11 19:20
22:3 45:17 48:16 35:16 37:14 provision 38:4 30:5 41:4 47:7
26:18,24 practical 12:21 45:13 46:1 purely 47:25 48:25
36:17 12:23 24:21 problems 40:22 purpose 38:11 racially 7:7,21
39:4,14 47:6,11 49:17 41:10 52:15 38:13 8:19 10:4
42:10 50:24 52:8 proceed 31:18 purposes 43:1 11:19 12:2
47:16,20 practice 43:20 42:4 put 13:18 15:16 22:23 54:21
53:1 predicate 54:15 process 4:7,13 21:23 28:4 raised 19:10
5:16 6:2 predictive 41:6 produced 50:3 Raleigh 1:19
predominant progress 7:17 Q ratio 39:11
10:4 predominates 19:20 5:25 8:2 11:4 rationale 46:18
12:2 37:4 prohibits 50:13 11:12 14:24,25 49:22
34:2 preferred 9:13 project 18:12 15:7 16:8 20:3 reach 42:1 50:21
30:8 51:22 prong 8:10 23:7,10 25:4,6 reaching 3:19
18:4 37:18 37:24,25 55:4 37:10,21 38:20 read 6:8
37:1 prepared 21:14 prongs 15:18 39:10 44:3 readily 10:5
47:7,23 prescription proportionality 50:15 51:11 realistic 45:5
18:6 15:20 16:3 54:15 realities 22:12
present 22:12 47:20 19:20 realize 31:2
presented 23:1 21:14,20 12:6 19:9 20:24 28:22
22:17 presumably 38:19 40:5,20 26:14 47:20 49:9
38:22 36:25 41:8 42:17 reason 16:4,6
42:21 presumption proposing 5:20 R 23:18 34:15
53:7,9 18:16 10:2 R 3:1 36:14 39:2
48:11,20 resulting 24:5 50:3 51:12,12 seen 43:23
51:7 43:21 50:2 31:16 53:17 18:6
representative reversed 23:19 run 25:19 38:15 separate 15:17
24:6 require 4:3 24:5 rights 3:11 5:5 satisfied 10:13 serve 3:17
36:22 46:18 7:12,18 13:21 saying 11:14 shares 37:1
28:4,4,9 required 10:2 20:25 22:9 29:12 39:7 shifting 8:4
17:9 24:10,16 38:14 39:17 says 6:4 showing 9:15
40:6 41:9 48:6 rigid 37:10 Scalia 11:19 shown 46:10
32:19 requirement rise 13:3 17:16 18:3 sides 12:7
14:9 22:9 3:23 4:14,21 school 25:16 50:22 52:1,15
48:4 53:20 8:12 11:6,11 41:13 simply 10:3 13:2
39:4 respect 23:13 54:14 55:5 38:3 41:2 situation 3:24
28:1,13 34:25 roughly 22:23 7:2 10:3 11:8 51:20
21:3 20:6,9,12,14 28:2,5 31:12 53:23
rest 54:3 38:19 41:21 see 15:2 24:15 somebody 53:24
25:10 52:6 44:14,24 46:2 35:1,6,10 sorry 29:18
stated 8:7 substantial 4:6 swing 54:17 think 10:2,24
52:4 States 1:1,15,24 13:12 53:17 T 17:8 24:12
14:14,17 53:1 succeeded 7:12 take 9:18 10:3 37:17 41:23
State's 24:21 sufficient 8:22 15:5 16:24 43:6,11 45:16
24:8 statistical 9:23 10:16 26:25 24:18 25:2,18 48:10
25:4,23 statistically 9:2 28:14 29:1,13 26:20 31:8 thinking 19:7
27:7,18 status 38:10 30:4,7 39:9,12 36:13,13 47:22 32:25
29:10 statute 42:11 46:24 taken 16:15 third 8:10 9:7
30:1,12 44:21 46:13 sufficiently 10:7 17:15 54:22 10:13 11:9
31:2,23 49:6 12:18 takes 36:24 12:6,9 28:17
step 3:21 32:24 suggest 10:21 38:15 45:4 28:22 37:24
40:2 STEVENS suggested 31:23 talking 15:2 41:6 46:17,21
18:15 37:9 32:4 53:11 19:17 20:11 53:22 55:3
28:22 29:12 26:10 telling 5:9 thought 5:19
27:23 28:16 29:13 super-majority tension 9:14 20:5 22:13
31:15,15 26:25 27:2,4,8 38:16 testify 29:4 40:21 44:5,18
27:11 28:21 supported 6:24 testimony 7:19 threshold 34:11
38:8 stop 35:10 45:15 suppose 10:9 text 10:2 Thurman 1:20
49:9 47:8 35:19,20 38:20 textually 44:20 2:5 23:24,25
stopping 36:4,6 44:7 Thank 23:22 24:2,17 25:1
34:15 straight 23:10 Supreme 1:1,15 40:12 51:3,9 26:23 27:13,25
straightforward 4:10 18:20 55:5 28:8,25 29:16
17:3 19:8 Strickland 1:9 41:22 48:11,14 thing 5:25 18:6 31:25 32:3,8
3:5 48:21 25:10 36:11 32:12 33:3,10
submission sure 17:19 30:16 42:2 46:15 33:19 34:5,25
24:19 29:17 33:19 42:22 48:14 50:11 35:12,14 36:12
31:16 submit 28:1,13 surprising 27:10 things 14:20 37:9,22 38:24
40:22 39:2 suspect 14:6 15:1,5 41:17 39:13 40:1,4
48:11,14 submitted 55:6 suspected 48:6 44:20 47:11 time 3:18 7:23
49:8,9 55:8 swamp 33:17 50:4 14:19 20:2
26:19 39:10 44:12 variety 33:23 W worked 36:5
41:5 45:25 37:13 W 1:20 2:5 49:1,18,24
typically 46:20 vary 47:12 23:25 50:1
41:9,16 unconstitutio... 35:10,25 41:8 Washington wrong 14:18
48:1 50:7 44:9,11 46:19 1:11,23 15:9 31:22
52:20 54:10,13,16,18 way 3:12 13:18
18:15
undercuts 9:12 voters 8:3 14:7 47:21 48:10
52:3 1
34:6,8,9 54:23 white 10:22,23
10:04 1:16 3:2
42:13 voting 3:11 5:5 21:25 29:20,21
43:12,13 5:13,15 6:1,20 30:6 33:7,17
11 53:21 54:2,7
7:7,8,12,18 8:9 34:3 35:10
9:19 12 53:8,9
47:19 10:22,23 11:7 52:16 53:21,21
11:15,16,18,20 54:16,18,24
23:17 130a 29:16,24
14 1:12
17:11,24 20:24 18:24
18 11:18
48:16 27:2,11,11,20 1:20 18:23 2 5:5 6:1 7:2
use 52:14 27:20,24 28:7 win 10:11 25:5 10:3 11:8 13:7
17:20 28:14 29:6,13 wish 30:14,22 17:11,24 20:1
27:3,14 V 29:15 30:3,7
37:2 30:19,20 34:2 won 46:16 24:11 25:8,17
42:23 valid 19:8,24 38:14 39:16
work 8:23 11:17 31:12 33:4
46:23 47:10 13:2 14:2 18:8 40:24 41:11
45:16 validity 19:9 49:1,3 52:12
50:4 53:7,9,21,22 workable 21:8 50:13 51:14
variations 27:19 54:9,21,24
21:12 22:25 52:14,18 53:1
26:5,8 35:20 24:11 28:20
1:12 31:13 32:15
2:6 51:18 34:13,21 35:16
24:23 32:21 36:14,14,20
32:21 38:2,5,21 39:1
53:1 42:21 43:9,13
30:10 44:9,15 45:14
49:17
49:25 50:2,9
2:4 51:12,12 52:3
7:19 8:2 53:25
20:22 21:6 51 2:12 34:17
37:10,15
22:21,23 59 28:11
22:18
20:20 27:6 6
54:7 60 29:8
52:13 62 28:12
54:5
70 8:13
21:19 73-74 21:10
2:9 10:9,15
11:2,14
14:7,12,21
13:2,11
16:11,25
35:25
35:21
44:8
52:8
15:7 16:11
44:7 45:18,19
36:6
34:20
54:2
35:23
51:16
41:23 43:23
43:12
35:3
4:10 12:11
19:15
23:11,16
