IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CORDELL PEARSON, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 07-751
AFTON CALLAHAN. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 14, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:08 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PETER STIRBA, ESQ., Salt Lake City, Utah; on behalf of
the Petitioners.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
Petitioners.
THEODORE P. METZLER, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PETER STIRBA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioners 18
THEODORE P. METZLER, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PETER STIRBA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:08 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in case 07-751, Pearson v. Callahan.
Mr. Stirba.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER STIRBA,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. STIRBA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
At the time of the arrest in this case there
were three different Federal circuits and two State
courts that established it was Constitutionally
permissible for police officers to enter a home without
a warrant as a follow-up entry to effectuate arrest
after an illegal drug transaction when a government
agent had occurred and probable cause had been
established.
Although the rule has become known as the
doctrine of consent once removed, and the lower courts
have banned various rationales in support of the rule,
the name or label is not important. What is important
is that the rule is predicated upon well recognized
Fourth Amendment principles, and that at the time of the
arrest the consent doctrine was well established in the
lower courts as settled Fourth Amendment law.
Thus, irrespective of how this Court rules
on the constitutionality of the rule itself, the
Petitioner officers could have reasonably believed that
what they were doing was lawful.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, because the
Fourth Amendment principle of consent was well
established? In other words, if a police officer goes
to the door and says "May I come in," that is -- that is
perfectly acceptable. Is that -- that the level of
generality that you think we ought to analyze this issue
at?
MR. STIRBA: No, certainly we think that the
generality of just pure consent is not the level at
which it should be determined. In fact, that was the
problem with the Tenth Circuit case. But it has to
be -- the right has to be defined in a specific clear
way, and it has to be -- the contours of the right have
to be sufficiently clear that police officers know that
when they engage in the conduct, they know what they
they're doing is unlawful.
In this case, Mr. Chief Justice, all of the
law that was in existing at the time of the entry was
supportive of exactly what the police officers did.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it seems to me that
misses the point of the case. I mean, the point of the
case is that consent to the police was established,
consent to police informants was not, and that when I
consent I am not consenting to the -- to the whole
world. If I am consenting to somebody who is not a
police officer, that is not equivalent to consenting to
a police officer. That's the point of the case; and as
I understand it, there was -- there was only one case at
the time that this occurred which equated the
confidential informant for the police with the police;
and that was the Seventh Circuit case; isn't that
correct?
MR. STIRBA: Justice Souter, we are not --
we are not contending this is an implied consent case,
although that has been a theory that has been advanced
in the lower courts. We believe that the way that this
was constitutionally lawful -- this is really a Lewis
case, and that is once you engage in some illegal
conduct with a government agent in your home, you have
waived any expectation of privacy.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but that -- that
equates -- in terms of existing law, that equates the
government agent, which in this case is not a police
officer, but a confidential informant, with a police
officer. And it seems to me that is the nub of the
case: Is that person equivalent, so that consent to one
in effect is consent to as many police as want to come
in, or is it not the case? And it seems to me what you
have got to argue here is that the confidential
informant and the police officer for Fourth Amendment
purposes should be treated as identical.
MR. STIRBA: Absolutely. And we do -- and
we think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And there is no clear law
on that. That's why we are here. There's one -- at the
time that this search was made, as I understand it,
there was only one case which held there was such an
equivalence, is that correct?
MR. STIRBA: There are two points,
Justice Souter. First of all, with respect to the
lawfulness of the confidential --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, first -- I want to
hear what you say, but tell me, is it correct that at
that time there was one case that held the equivalence?
MR. STIRBA: No, Your Honor. There actually
-- there were actually three out of the Seventh Circuit,
the Pollard case out of the Sixth Circuit, which
involved a police officer and a confidential informant
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: Which was not a circuit
case, right?
MR. STIRBA: That is a circuit case.
JUSTICE SOUTER: District case?
MR. STIRBA: That was a circuit court case,
U.S. v. Pollard.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So there were three circuit
court holdings that the confidential informant was
equivalent to a police officer?
MR. STIRBA: There were three out of the
Seventh Circuit. Paul, Diaz, and I think it's Aziano
were all confidential information cases where the courts
ruled squarely that there was no difference between a
confidential informant and a police officer.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, did you -- now, do
you have other circuits that held that?
MR. STIRBA: Yes, Your Honor. The Pollard
case involved a confidential informant --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Where is Pollard from?
MR. STIRBA: Sixth Circuit.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Sixth.
MR. STIRBA: And they cited in support the
confidential informant cases from the Seventh Circuit.
We also read Gramble -- this is a 2000 -- I'm sorry, a
995 Ninth Circuit case which talked about a government
agent, it did not draw a distinction between a
confidential informant and a police officer -- as
supportive as well. That's exactly what Judge Kelly
determined in the dissenting opinion in the Tenth
Circuit.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. Now why -- why are
they correct? Why should the confidential informant be
treated as equivalent to a police officer?
MR. STIRBA: Well, fundamentally -- and of
course the test for Fourth Amendments purposes is the
Skinner test -- that once you are a government agent or
a government actor, there really is no material
difference in terms what the confidential informant
would do or the undercover police officer would do.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Oh, but there is an
enormous difference between the training and the
character of a police officer and, as this very case
illustrates, the confidential informants are often very
shady characters who can't be counted on to be
truth-tellers, and have a powerful incentive to get
someone for the police, because in most cases they are
seeking to have their own case dealt with
sympathetically. So, how can you equate a police
officer with a confidential informer, who is usually
someone who knows where the drug house is because he's a
dealer himself?
MR. STIRBA: Two points. In our reply
brief, pages 6 and 7, we point out the wide variety of
confidential informants. They come in many different
shapes and sizes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about this one?
Wasn't this one that fits my description, the one in
this case?
MR. STIRBA: This one clearly had a drug
problem. This one also attended college. This one also
was a star athlete in high school, and this one also was
reliable in a previous drug transaction. Moreover --
JUSTICE SOUTER: He was trying -- and he was
trying to make a deal to get leniency with the police.
MR. STIRBA: Well, there is no question
about that. But once again, he is a government actor.
For purposes of Fourth Amendment liability it doesn't
matter whether it's a police officer or a confidential
informant, as long as he is an agent of the government,
which clearly he was. He was a government actor --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you -- you certainly
cannot argue -- maybe you are, but I don't see how can
you argue in response to Justice Ginsburg that the
integrity to be expected from a confidential informant,
taking that as a category of law including all sorts of
informants, is the integrity that we would expect in a
police officer.
MR. STIRBA: Well, as a general proposition,
Justice Souter, you can't make that kind of
determination. We point out --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why can't I?
MR. STIRBA: Because sometimes confidential
informants are retired police officers; sometimes
confidential informants are police cadets. Sometimes
confidential informants --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then if that -- if that is
true, as it clearly is, they run the gamut from the good
to the bad. You can't make -- adopt the proposition
categorically that confidential informants should be
regarded as having the same integrity as a police
officer.
MR. STIRBA: I wouldn't want to make that
statement. I don't know that it's material, though, to
the analysis under the Fourth Amendment and whether or
not, once you are a government agent or a government
actor, there really is no legal significance that flows
from that to draw a distinction between one who is
actually employed by the police, taking a paycheck from
the police, and one who is not.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's one feature of
this is that I think is really puzzling: What this case
is about is the Fourth Amendment, that requires, with
certain exceptions, the main rule is to get a warrant.
And here you have a confidential informer going to the
place to make sure that they really do have the goods.
Then he goes back to the police. He spends two hours.
He's being wired and whatever else. Why didn't somebody
pick up the phone and get a warrant at that point? The
confidential informer could say: "I was there and I saw
the drugs." What -- the whole purpose of these rules is
to have the police get a warrant when they can. And how
do you explain that two hours lapse between when they
had probable cause and when the -- when the informant
returns for the second time?
MR. STIRBA: Well, Justice Ginsburg, the
officers testified why they didn't get a warrant,
244-245 in the joint appendix, and 256 and 257. Two
problems: One, they weren't sure the drugs were going
to be there. These are small amounts of drugs in a
rural area; they dissipate very quickly.
JUSTICE SOUTER: We're talking about
probable cause. If they got a warrant within an hour or
two of the time that that informant says he saw them
there, do you seriously question whether there would be
probable cause?
MR. STIRBA: I am only going on the record
and what these informed officers testified to.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But we're asking for the
basis. You're asking for a rule and our questions go to
the reason for having that rule. And the officers may
have said -- and I will assume they said -- in this
case: Oh, gee, we weren't sure the drugs would still be
there. But in terms of probable cause law, that's just
not a serious answer, is it?
MR. STIRBA: Well, it is. In essence we are
talking about an anticipatory warrant, and under U.S. v.
Grubbs you not only need probable cause to believe that
the drugs will be there --
JUSTICE SOUTER: They don't even need an
anticipatory warrant. They need a warrant to go in and
search that place on the grounds that there are probably
drugs there, and if they saw drugs there a couple of
hours beforehand and they had no affirmative evidence
which they should bring forward under the Frank standard
to indicate that the drugs were being taken out, is
there any serious question that probable cause would be
found?
MR. STIRBA: Justice -- Justice Souter, I
don't believe at the time, approximately 9 o'clock in
the evening, the police had probable cause to believe
the drugs were there.
JUSTICE SOUTER: An informant just came out
and said there were drugs there and they don't have
probable cause?
MR. STIRBA: At the time of 9 o'clock, I
don't think it was established that there were drugs --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why not?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought it was
established not only that there were drugs, but that he
actually tasted some.
MR. STIRBA: He never told the police that.
And the purpose --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But --
MR. STIRBA: The purpose of the operation,
of course, was to establish that there was in fact drugs
in the house. The transaction would occur and that
would conclusively establish probable cause. I don't
think we should fault the police for essentially being
careful before they entered the home to make sure that
in fact they had probable cause.
JUSTICE SOUTER: The reason the police are
being faulted is that they didn't get a warrant. And
the warrant requirement is a generally good starting
place for a Fourth Amendment argument.
Justice Ginsburg's point is that if they had
an informant who had seen drugs in the place within two
hours, they had, if they'd been before a magistrate, the
basis in probable cause to get a warrant. And I still
haven't heard why in fact they couldn't have got one or
why they didn't have the probable cause.
MR. STIRBA: Well, as I -- as I explained
before, they believed the drugs in --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm not interested in what
they personally believed. We're talking about objective
Fourth Amendment standards. Did they or did they not
have a basis to establish probable cause at that point?
MR. STIRBA: We don't believe they did, Your
Honor. And we don't believe they could have gotten a --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That is --
MR. STIRBA: -- an anticipatory warrant.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I will admit that is the
most astonishing view of probable cause I have heard in
this courtroom. Of course they had.
MR. STIRBA: Well, the record evidence
doesn't substantiate that, or they would have gotten --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why doesn't it?
MR. STIRBA: Or they would have gotten a
warrant.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why doesn't it? As I
understand, the record evidence is that their informant
was in that guy's home, and within two hours of the
point that we went through, the second entry, he had
seen drugs. Why wasn't there probable cause within that
two-hour period?
MR. STIRBA: Because the police did not
believe that at the time that they could have gotten a
warrant, that the drugs would not have been dissipated.
And they -- as they testified --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is that a reasonable
belief?
MR. STIRBA: Pardon me?
JUSTICE SOUTER: I mean, we're talking about
probable cause, not an establishment of mathematical
certainty.
MR. STIRBA: Here's another point. That is
just an option, Justice Souter, the police -- if you
believed the police could get a warrant. They didn't
have to get a warrant. They obviously were engaged in a
buy/bust operation, which eventually led to them to the
particular position where they clearly established
probable cause.
JUSTICE SOUTER: They clearly would have
been if they had sent a police officer in. You're
asking us to extend the police officer rule to include a
confidential informant rule. One reason for doing so
is, or would be, that in practical terms there is a need
for it. Justice Ginsburg's question was, why is there a
need for it, when they could have gotten a warrant? And
we still haven't heard an answer.
MR. STIRBA: In rural Utah -- and this is
page 47 of the joint appendix -- the officers testified
that one of the reasons why they need to use
confidential informants is because the police are all
known. And, therefore, if they're going to engage in
any drug --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then why didn't they use
the confidential informant to get a warrant?
MR. STIRBA: Well, I don't know how I can
answer the question any more than I have,
Justice Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That doesn't --
MR. STIRBA: They -- they chose not to, for
reasons they didn't believe they had probable cause and
they were concerned that the drugs had been dissipated.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, in every --
given the posture of the ultimate issue in this case on
the underlying constitutional question, you do not have
to prove that you are right; isn't that correct? You
have to establish that the contrary principle is not
clearly established?
MR. STIRBA: That's correct. And the law at
the time that these officers engaged in this operation,
entered the home -- and once again, it was based upon
probable cause -- supported in fact constitutionally
what they did, and that it was indeed permissible. And
that was the basis upon which we believe, irrespective
of how the Court views whether they should or should not
have gotten a warrant and the constitutional
implications of that, that the law was clearly not
established sufficiently such that these officers were
entitled to qualified immunity. That was one of the
problems with the Tenth Circuit case. They --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I just establish one
thing? Tell me if I am wrong. That this argument about
consent once removed was not presented in the lower
courts. That is, in the trial court you argued exigent
circumstances, and then on appeal the inevitable
discovery rule. So there was -- in the courts below,
this was not given as the reason, the consent once
removed was not alleged as the basis, as the
justification for this search?
MR. STIRBA: That's true. On the criminal
appeal, the State did not argue Lewis, did not argue
consent once removed. And that is part of the problem
with a number of cases that have been cited by the
Respondent. They are exigent circumstances cases where
the consent once removed doctrine of Lewis isn't even
advocated or litigated. We think that's very important.
Unless the justices have any other
questions, I'll reserve the rest of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. STIRBA: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Stewart.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The police entry in this case was
constitutional and, in any event, did not infringe any
constitutional right that was clearly established at the
time the officers acted. The mandatory order of
decision for qualified immunity cases announced in
Saucier v. Katz should be overruled.
I did want to begin by clarifying the answer
to your question, Justice Ginsburg, because I'm not sure
if it was entirely clear. There were really two cases
here, one of which was the criminal prosecution of Mr.
Callahan, the Respondent in this Court. And the
individual officers were not parties as to that case.
That was handled by the State of Utah. And you're
correct that in the criminal proceeding the consent once
removed argument was not made. And that led to the
motion to suppress ultimately being granted and
consequently Mr. Callahan was not subject to criminal
proceedings.
Mr. Callahan did file a civil suit against
the individual officers who were involved in effecting
the arrest, and in that civil proceeding the consent
once removed argument was made all the way up. It was
made in the district court, and it was made in the court
of appeals as well.
JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Stewart, could I follow
up on one other thing that came up during the preceding
argument? Isn't the issue whether there was or was not
probable cause quite separate from the consent once
removed doctrine? What -- assuming that there was
probable cause here, there may be many instances in
which the consent once removed doctrine would be
applied, if it's a valid doctrine, where there wasn't
previously probable cause.
MR. STEWART: That's correct. I think the
consent once removed doctrine would have its greatest
utility in cases where the police suspect but don't have
probable cause to believe that a particular individual
is engaged in criminal activity, and so they send an
informant or an undercover police officer in to try to
either confirm or dispel their suspicions. They
wouldn't be able to get a warrant at the outset because
they would not have probable cause at that time of
ongoing criminal conduct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But if our question is
should consent once removed be recognized as a doctrine
that covers the confidential informant in this case, one
question that we may sensibly ask is, is there a need to
recognize that broad a consent doctrine? And one
question that would bear on that would be, in these
cases, is there difficulty or impossibility of getting a
warrant under normal probable cause standards? And I
think that was the point of Justice Ginsburg's question.
Do you doubt that they could have gotten a warrant
within the two-hour period?
MR. STEWART: We certainly think that they
had probable cause. There was testimony from police
officers to the effect that magistrates in Utah would be
reluctant to grant warrants based on these circumstances
because of the possibility that the drugs would be
dissipated. I am not in a position to second-guess
their empirical experience as to the circumstances under
which Utah magistrates will and will not grant warrants.
But we think as a legal matter that there was probable
cause, and that a warrant should have been issued. But
certainly there are -- there are plenty of
circumstances --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's -- it's not just
this case. Maybe you can tell me. I thought because
they were dealing with a confidential informant rather
than a police officer, they sent him in to do the dry
run. I mean the -- in the police officer cases usually
the -- the undercover police officer goes in. The other
police officers are there ready to come in when he gives
them the signal. But the police officers don't
ordinarily go through this dry run that they had here
with the confidential informer.
MR. STEWART: Well, I -- I would think that
with either police officers or with informants you could
have some situations in which the undercover operative
has very recently attempted to confirm the presence of
drugs. And you can have other cases in which the
undercover operative, again either an informant or a
police officer, could hear rumors on the street that a
particular individual was engaged in drug-dealing, might
not have probable cause, and they might decide that the
best way to set up the operation was to send this person
in to attempt to make a buy at a time when probable
cause was lacking. But they would want to arrange the
operation in such a way that if the operative's
experience confirmed their suspicions and gave them
probable cause to arrest, they would be able to go in
immediately.
And our principal contention is not that the
consent to the entry of Bartholomew was implicit consent
to the later entry of the police officers. It was that
once a person has, even unknowingly, admitted a
government agent into his home, his expectation of
privacy is sharply reduced and the entry of the officers
works an insubstantial incremental invasion of privacy.
And I would like to return to the point that
Mr. Stirba was making. It's true that the informant
here lacked the training and skills that -- and
integrity, for that matter, that you would expect a
police officer to have. But he was for Fourth Amendment
purposes a government agent a State actor. If his
handlers had instructed him to look for an opportunity
to rummage through the drawers --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Stewart, could I
interrupt you, because there is something that hasn't
been reached. Do you think that we should answer the
constitutional question first or the immunity question
first?
MR. STEWART: We think that this Court in
this case should address the constitutional question
first because it is the subject of the square circuit
conflict, it's been briefed and argued, it's a question
that independently warrants resolution.
JUSTICE BREYER: It is quite difficult. I
mean there -- we don't know quite a lot about whether
they would have gotten a warrant, how -- how dangerous
it was, whether the drugs were likely to be hidden. And
I was thinking of it, and that's why I am saying this,
is that it's a perfect reason since constitutional
questions in this area are -- are like the stars in the
sky. There are so many. Rather than having the judges
answer each one and getting everything mixed up, why not
just have them take whatever is the easier path? As a
judge I like to take what is the easier path.
MR. STEWART: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: And if it's easier to deal
with the qualified immunity, deal with it and forget the
rest of it.
MR. STEWART: I guess the first thing I
would say in response to that is we think that the --
the balance or the way in which discretion will
ordinarily be exercised will typically be different in
the case of the lower courts than in the case of this
Court, because the principal role of the lower Federal
courts is to decide individual cases before them usually
in the most expeditious and noncontroversial way where
they --
JUSTICE BREYER: I see that, but unless we
do that here, they are never going to get the right
message. And so what we will have is 1,000 judges
trying in an average in a year 50 or 60 cases each with
multiple facts, and we will have approximately over a
10-year period hundreds of thousands. I've exaggerated,
but there will be many, many -- many, many conflicts,
many, many confusions. And unless we say, no, we are
not doing it ourselves, how will they ever get the
message?
MR. STEWART: Well, I think they will get
the message --
JUSTICE BREYER: We don't always have to do
it, but I mean once.
MR. STEWART: I think they will get the
message if the Court tells them that the mandatory rule
of Saucier is no longer in effect, that courts have
discretion to decide based on their sound judgment
whether it is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why isn't it -- why
isn't it an advisory opinion, if we do not have to
decide -- to decide the ultimate question whether this
is constitutional or not, but simply whether or not it
was clearly established whether it was unconstitutional?
Why isn't it purely an advisory opinion to say whether
it's constitutional or not?
MR. STEWART: I mean, in one sense it's an
advisory opinion, but in another sense there are --
there are often cases in which two alternative grounds
for a decision are proffered, either one of which, if
accepted, would compel a judgment in one litigant's
favor. And the fact that it would theoretically -- if
the court concludes there is only --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. Those are
different grounds, it seems to me. Those are two
independent, as you said. Here it's kind of a -- it's a
progression. You first ask, either, under somebody's
view, I guess, Saucier, whether or not it's
constitutional or not and then whether it's clearly
established.
I just don't know why the first question
isn't purely advisory, because you don't have to know
whether it's constitutional or not.
MR. STEWART: Well, it's true that if the
Court announced that this search was constitutional,
that it would necessarily be saying: And there was no
clearly established constitutional law to the contrary
at the time the officers acted. But the Court --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- to the question. I
mean, look, if I have to answer the constitutional
question -- and what bothers me is this consent at one
remove. What? You are saying a drug seller who lets in
a disguised policeman in order to sell him a drug
because he thinks he's a druggie is suddenly consenting
to the entire LAPD coming into his house? I would think
that is the last thing he would have thought about
wanting, not the first.
MR. STEWART: But that -- that would be
equally true in the case of the undercover police
officer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, maybe they both
should be the same. I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's what I wanted to
know, and it gets back to the merits and not Saucier.
We are going through two different things here.
Assume this is an undercover officer, not an
-- not a -- not an informant. Now, the undercover
officer sees a crime being committed, and he is ready to
make the arrest. Can he automatically ask for police
assistance and -- and other policemen? Are the police
then entitled to come into the home in your view, or do
there have to be some exigent circumstances?
MR. STEWART: No. We think he could
automatically ask for the police to come into the home
because the incremental intrusion on privacy by having
several police officers rather than one to make the
arrest would be insubstantial.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't the reason it's
insubstantial is that we have a rule for independent
reasons having nothing necessarily to do with this kind
of situation in which one officer's knowledge is
regarded as another officer's knowledge. The police are
regarded as a group, so that we have a rule ready, in
place, saying: You show one, you have shown the whole
department.
We don't, however, have any such rule with
respect to agents generally.
MR. STEWART: I think you don't have that
precise rule, but it is nevertheless the case that the
undercover operative here, the informant, was a State
actor. Had he been instructed to look in private places
without consent, his conduct would have constituted a
Fourth Amendment violation because he would have been
regarded for that purpose as -- as an agent of the
State, and he should, therefore, be regarded as a State
agent for these purposes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just -- just to be clear,
if -- if I may, I know your red light is on: Your
position is if an undercover officer is in the premises
and sees a crime being committed, he automatically can
invite police in to assist him in making an arrest
without exigent circumstances?
MR. STEWART: That's correct.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's -- what do I read?
What authority do you cite me for that proposition?
MR. STEWART: I don't think this -- this
Court has ever squarely so held. I believe that the
Respondents concede that because they don't take issue
with the fact that consent once removed is applicable
when the person already inside is an undercover police
officer.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Metzler?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE P. METZLER, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. METZLER: Thank you Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
This is a case about consent. By consenting
to the entry of a confidential informant, that Mr.
Callahan consented to the entry of police.
The answer is no, and no reasonable officer
could have believed otherwise.
This Court has long held that it is
presumptively unreasonable for police to enter a home
without consent or exigent circumstances or a warrant.
Here there were no exigent circumstances; there was no
warrant, nor was there any consent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: YOU -- was Mr.
Stewart correct that you concede that if this person
entering the house were in fact a police officer, that
this would have been okay?
MR. METZLER: No, Your Honor. We think it's
a closer case, but if it is a -- if this confidential
informant had been a police officer, it would be the
same analysis. There is no exigent circumstance here;
there is no consent. And -- and the consent to be
competent to the police officer in your case would not
extend to the police officer in your case would not
extend to the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you would agree he
could make the -- the arrest by himself. Assuming he
was a police officer --
MR. METZLER: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- he could make the
arrest by himself.
MR. METZLER: -- he could make the arrest by
himself. But --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- and -- but you are
saying he can't ask for assistance to make that arrest
effective in all cases. There has to be some exigent
circumstance.
MR. METZLER: Correct. If -- if there are
some sort of exigent circumstances, in this case they
would plan that in advance; and police are not allowed
to create their own exigency to get around the Fourth
Amendment.
JUSTICE ALITO: You are advocating a rule
that is going to get police officers killed, aren't they
-- aren't you? If an undercover police officer is in a
house making drug buy, and you want to say that the
single officer who is there in an undercover capacity
can say, "You guys are all under arrest," he can't
signal for other police officers to come in and help him
effect the arrest without anybody being killed?
MR. METZLER: Of course, the safest thing
for him would be to simply withdraw, get on the
telephone, and get a warrant to come back in, or during
the two hours that they were planning this entry he
could have gotten a warrant then or an anticipatory
warrant. There are plenty of stated options.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it seems to me that
in the case that Justice Alito put, that there are
exigent circumstances.
MR. METZLER: Well, to the extent they
planned it in advance, and the basis of their entry --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that -- that's a
different point and I have some question about that. It
seems to me the police are never quite sure exactly
what's going to happen.
MR. METZLER: Well, if they -- if they
planned on an exigent circumstance as being the reason
that they are allowed to go in, under this Court's
decision -- the long line of decisions in Payton and
Steagald saying exigent circumstances or consent are the
way to get in without a warrant, then it would not be
permissible. If --
JUSTICE BREYER: Imagining -- you are
imagining different cases. We can imagine a spectrum of
cases. In some cases the policeman or the confidential
informant will be there, and he really couldn't have
gotten a -- a thing in advance -- a warrant in advance.
It wasn't certain, and they are in there and they see a
lot of drug behavior going on, and the drugs are going
to be hidden, go, disappear the second he leaves; and if
he tries to arrest them, everybody is going to jump on
him and kill him. Okay?
So there are a lot of cases just like this
one, but with a few changes, which are -- he needs to
call the police, and there will be others where he
doesn't.
So that's why I am so uncertain about what
it is we are deciding here on the merits. We would have
to say on the merits this is a case where there are no
exigent circumstances. Can we say that? I -- would not
want to "never are there."
MR. METZLER: I think certainly in this case
there were not exigent circumstances. The informant was
on his way out the door. He -- he wasn't attempting to
make an arrest. No one thought that the -- that Mr.
Callahan would destroy the drugs or that anyone would
leave. In fact, the Petitioners abandoned exigent
circumstances in the court of appeal. So I think you
can decide this case on the merits, as there were no
exigent circumstances. And then ask, is it reasonable
to think that because there was an informant inside and
because he sent out a signal that there was probable
cause, a drug transaction had happened inside the house,
does that make any difference whatsoever as to whether
there was consent?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a tough -- at
least I find it a very difficult question. I do not
find it necessarily a terribly difficult question
whether that -- whatever the answer is -- whether it was
clearly established, precisely because I find the
underlying questions difficult. So you have a handful
Court of Appeals decisions, you have got a factual
variation; the issue is whether to extend the police
coming in to a confidential informant, all of those
questions are very difficult; but precisely because they
are, it doesn't seem that the rule, whichever rule is
adopted, is clearly established.
Why don't -- and yet if I were on the lower
court of appeals, you would say -- or Saucier would say,
I have got to decide that very difficult constitutional
question and then decide what's a very easy qualified
immunity question. Does that -- why does that make
sense?
MR. METZLER: With respect,
Mr. Chief Justice, I don't think it's a difficult
question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know you
don't because you are arguing one side of it.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But concede for
purposes of argument that it is a difficult question.
Why don't we just tell the lower courts -- we do it, we
go right ahead to the qualified immunity question by not
granting cert on one. Why shouldn't the lower courts
have the same luxury?
MR. METZLER: Well, with regard to the
Saucier question, we think the Court should keep the
Saucier question, and particularly in this case where
there is a circuit split, the court should decide the
constitutional question and not move on to the clearly
established question --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why, because we need
to provide guidance on that question?
MR. METZLER: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, do you think
it can't come up any other way?
MR. METZLER: It certainly could come up --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. METZLER: -- in a criminal case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or a -- or a suit
against the political subdivision, right? You could
have sued some other political entity other than the
officers individually, right?
MR. METZLER: Certainly. Mr. Callahan did
sue the county in this case. But --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that this
is an area where the police do need guidance, and I need
guidance. I find this -- I find this very difficult.
It seems to me that we could have learned a lot if the
-- if the courts of appeals had addressed this question.
MR. METZLER: Well, this Court in Payton and
Steagald --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Which is what they do in
Saucier.
MR. METZLER: I didn't hear the Justice's
questions.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Which is what they would
do under Saucier.
MR. METZLER: Right. Well, I mean, it's
important to understand the constitutional question
first in this case and in other cases in order to make
sure that the -- that the law continues to elaborate
that potentially meritorious constitutional
rights are --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that was
my question. There are other ways for the law to
develop. The issue can come up on merits in the suit
against the municipality which doesn't raise the
qualified immunity question. If you come up -- if you
have a search where a person sues to get whatever was
seized back. You know, if there's a -- and also the
option is, if the question of which order want to
proceed is optional, the law can develop if the courts
for good and sufficient reason decide to reach the
constitutional question first.
I -- I'm just wondering what benefit there
is in an absolute rigid rule that courts of appeals -- I
had a few of these cases in courts of appeals; I thought
it was very odd that I had to go and decide a difficult
constitutional issue and then not worry about it because
in one sentence you say well, but the issue is not
clearly established and so it's qualified immunity.
MR. METZLER: Well, that would take us to
back before Saucier, the Court -- it's a recent decision
that hasn't been proven to be workable. And in fact --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but my point
though is that at least in my experience it was
unworkable, or at least frustrating, in that we had to
decide not just a factual question but a constitutional
question in a context where it wasn't necessary.
MR. METZLER: Well, it depends on your view
of necessity. In some cases certainly, it won't really
come up in other contexts and the law is not established
in section 1983; it may never be established. But here
we are talking about a question where there is a circuit
split and the Court definitely should provide guidance
to the lower courts. I don't think that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Doesn't the fact
that there is a circuit split almost by definition mean
that it's not clearly established?
MR. METZLER: Well, this Court has looked to
controlling -- its own precedents and controlling
circuit law to decide what is -- what law is clearly
established, and here, Payton and Steagald the courts
held that there is a bright-line rule that's very simple
for police officers, it's easy for them to understand.
If they would like to enter without a
warrant and they don't have exigent circumstances and
they don't have consent, then it is presumptively
unconstitutional. And it's a good rule and an easy rule
and it's also why this is not a difficult constitutional
question. There are no exigent circumstances in this
case, and no reasonable officer could conclude that the
presence of a confidential informant in the house means
there is consent to the police officer.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if -- what if the
officers in this case had read the Seventh Circuit
decision, and they said these are judges on the United
States Court of Appeals, and they think this is
consistent with the Fourth Amendment? And what's more,
one of these is written -- one of these opinions is
written by Judge Posner, and he's the smartest man in
the world --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE ALITO: He knows everything there is
to know about law and economics and jurisprudence and
literature and many other subjects.
(Laughter).
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it unreasonable for them
to follow that?
MR. METZLER: Well, I think the officers in
the Tenth Circuit need to be aware the way that our
Federal court system works, and the Seventh Circuit
decision isn't binding on the Tenth Circuit. And with
all due respect to Judge Posner, he dropped ball on this
one. He says this -- this is a the case where -- it's
the United States v Paul -- there are no exigent
circumstances; the officers there could have gotten a
warrant and in fact should have gotten a warrant but he
said it was justified by consent. He's saying that
consent to one person is consent to many. And this
Court's cases have said that consent is based on
ordinary social expectation. When you let one person
into your house, you just don't let in the whole world.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If the Tenth Circuit
says this is not allowed, and every other circuit since
the Tenth Circuit's decision has held that it is, is
that clearly established that it's not allowed in the
Tenth Circuit?
MR. METZLER: Yes. I think certainly an
officer in the Tenth Circuit would be bound to follow
the Tenth Circuit rule. I mean, it's not irrelevant
that other -- that other courts have decided it
differently, but to the extent that there is controlling
law in the circuit, I think that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then it is
irrelevant. Then it is irrelevant that ten other
circuits have decided it differently.
MR. METZLER: Well, that very well might
wind up in this Court if --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, right, but do
the police officers get to decide that? Do they get to
decide that not only Judge Posner thinks this, but ten
other circuits think this, and it has been five years
since the Tenth Circuit. I mean, do they have to go
through that type of analysis?
MR. METZLER: Well, we don't expect officers
to survey the entire case law and come up with a law
professor's view of whether this is reasonable or not.
We expect them to follow the clearly -- the bright lines
that this Court has set down and that are set down in
their home jurisdictions. And if their home
jurisdiction says it's unconstitutional it's not
reasonable for them to follow some out-of-circuit
decision. If, for instance, the Seventh Circuit had
said that a warrantless home entry is okay so long as
the officer had breakfast in the last half-hour, that's
an unreasonable rule, and it wouldn't be reasonable for
any officer to follow that. And the facts here are
about as relevant to consent as to whether there was --
the officer had breakfast that morning.
So the officers here are not entitled to
qualify -- nor can they rely on the Seventh Circuit.
The Petitioners have not given you any reason to adopt a
new exception here. They say this is based on a waiver
theory or that it's a private search or that it is
incident to arrest. But all of those ignore the
substantial interest in the sanctity of the home.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do any of the other
cases involve -- the other circuit cases involve
confidential informants as opposed to police officers?
MR. METZLER: Other than the Seventh
Circuit?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. METZLER: The -- one case in the Sixth
Circuit there was both a confidential informant and a
police officer were admitted. And then there's a later
case in the Sixth Circuit that did say this is okay for
it, which came after this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So at the time every
circuit other than the -- you know, if there is a police
officer and a confidential informant, I think that could
be considered a police officer because he is going to
call the police in -- every court of appeals decision
involving a confidential informant said it was okay.
MR. METZLER: Actually we have cited three
circuits where these same facts happened. In the Eighth
Circuit, the First Circuit and the Eleventh Circuit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And in those
circuits, did the court focus on the distinction between
the police officer and the confidential informant?
MR. METZLER: Well, no. The court looked to
whether there were exigent circumstances or consent.
The courts followed this Court's decision in Payton and
Bramble and that line of cases.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you believe
that -- what is the appropriate level of generality to
look at in addressing this question, a case involving a
confidential informant?
MR. METZLER: I think the appropriate level
of generality is that the facts under the court -- the
court has covered the field when it comes to warrantless
home entries. If you have a warrant, you are okay. If
you have exigent circumstances, you are okay. And if
you have consent, you are okay. Everything else is
presumptively unconstitutional.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is that?
MR. METZLER: That's a good question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why isn't it that
the issue hasn't come up, this question of a
confidential informant is one that hasn't come up? Why
would we say that is presumptively unconstitutional?
MR. METZLER: Well, the Court's language is
presumptively unconstitutional has said that many times.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You are talking about the
main role of police is get a warrant, except -- and I
think the Court has said a number of times to make this
search reasonable, the police have to get a warrant if
you want to interject the judicial between police and
the person in jeopardy. So the main rule is warrant
unless -- and then you have exceptions, but I think your
point is that there is a main rule.
MR. METZLER: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This Court has gotten
from the Constitution?
MR. METZLER: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Get a warrant if you can.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't your argument that in
a situation where the exigent circumstances are the
creation of the scenario that the police have set up,
the police cannot -- and you have a police officer who
is being the undercover operative who has the power to
make an arrest, that police officer cannot signal for
other officers to come in and assist with the arrest?
MR. METZLER: Well, our position is that
would be -- the additional officer entry would violate
the Constitution --
JUSTICE ALITO: The additional officers
would -- that would violate the Fourth Amendment?
MR. METZLER: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Even if there is an officer
safety problem there?
MR. METZLER: Well, to the extent that they
have created an officer safety problem, obviously the
officers are going to go in to help him, no one is going
to get hurt. But the additional officer's entry can
violate the Fourth Amendment.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So the police say, you
know, we made a mistake. We should have had a warrant,
but we have our man in there now, we have got to do
something. The police cannot send assistance?
MR. METZLER: No, of course, they can send
assistance. And they probably --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. You say they have
created the exigent circumstances.
MR. METZLER: Yes, they have, which is why
the additional officer's entry would violate the Fourth
Amendment. Now, there might be limited --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So -- so my first
statement was correct. It's illegal for the police to
send their assistance, the other officers in?
MR. METZLER: Yes, my answer was as a
practical matter no -- no police officer is going to
leave, even if --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but then he is
going to get sued.
MR. METZLER: He very well may get sued and
there are questions of fact as to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you say as a practical
matter we have to say that under the Constitution we can
endanger -- we must endanger the officer?
MR. METZLER: Well, I disagree that the
officer could be in danger --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no. The hypothetical
is that they have to send people in to assist him. But
the hypothetical also is they should have anticipated
this, and therefore, in your words, they created exigent
circumstances.
MR. METZLER: They did create the exigent
circumstance --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that
dilemma and that paradox casts considerable doubt on
your proposition that if the police create the exigent
circumstances, they cannot rely on it. I seriously
question that proposition.
MR. METZLER: Even if -- even if you
disagree with me on that, it shouldn't make any
difference in this case where there was no exigent
circumstances.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no. I want to talk
about the general rule.
MR. METZLER: Okay. Well, the general --
never mind --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You want us to write an
opinion saying that any time police create the exigent
circumstances, they can't rely on them if they had had
the time to get a warrant. And I find that a dangerous
rule.
MR. METZLER: I don't think you would need
to to write the opinion that would say that, because
exigent circumstances are not in this case.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Metzler, what do you
say to this line of reasoning, we have in prior cases
adopted the positions that for purposes of establishing
probable cause, the knowledge of one police officer is
also the knowledge of all police officers, at least
within a department or working on a particular problem.
So that if in a case in which there is a search without
a warrant, if you add up everything that individual
officers knew and that amounts to probable cause, then
the search is good.
Why don't we apply, in effect, the same rule
in the hypothetical case that you have been given, which
is a police officer who was admitted by consent and
there are other police officers outside. At the point
at which the police officer who has been admitted has
the knowledge necessary for an arrest and has that
knowledge as a result of the invitation and the waiver
of privacy as to him, why don't we regard that on sort
of general doctrinal grounds as a waiver of privacy with
respect to the police in general, just as we regard
police knowledge as being imputed to all police
officers?
That way you don't have the problem that,
for example, Justice Kennedy's hypo raises, even in the
case of exigent circumstances. But it doesn't open the
door to what you were objecting to here. Why isn't that
a proper solution or proper answer to this hypo?
MR. METZLER: Well, if you are to adopt that
sort of -- I think you certainly could adopt that
rationale. But I don't think the way to get there is
through a waiver, because real there's nothing that the
person -- the suspect has done that he knows about that
would mean that he waived the expectation that
additional people would come in. There might be --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, you are absolutely
right in terms of his psychological process, the only
person he has invited in is the one person. The reason
for coming up with the answer I suggested is a broader
doctrinal reason. That is the reason that we have for
probable cause purposes regarded the police -- or the
knowledge of one police officer as the knowledge for
all.
Why don't we, for the same reasons, since it
is privacy that is at stake in all of these cases,
regard the invitation of one police officer as the
invitation of all, or to all?
MR. METZLER: Again, I don't think that the
way to get there is through consent. If you want it to
balance and say, well, the government has an agent in
there who is making the arrest and there is safety
concerns and other reasons why we would want to do that,
that might be one way to get there. I don't think it's
through consent.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It would be consent to one
officer plus a doctrinal basis to construe that consent
for Fourth Amendment purposes as a broader consent.
MR. METZLER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's what we would be
doing. We wouldn't be doing it because the individual
in the trailer says I am inviting in the whole L.A.
police department. We are doing it because he invites
one L.A. police officer in, and we have doctrinal basis
for regarding the police, as it were, collectively
rather than individually for probable cause purposes
when privacy is at stake.
MR. METZLER: That would be -- that would
certainly be a basis to allow for police officers.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Would it not open the door
to, I guess, to what you are objecting to?
JUSTICE ALITO: Why would probable cause
solve the problem at all? There is clearly probable
cause here. They are listening to what goes on. So
they're -- do you dispute that when they hear that the
drug transaction is taking place, that they lack
probable cause?
MR. METZLER: No, I think they do have
probable cause. But in Payton, the Court said that
police officers who are outside who have probable cause
need more than probable cause to get inside. They need
a warrant, exigent circumstances.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Right. I think I may have
created this problem for you and -- and maybe I -- I
should get you out of it.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm not suggesting that the
probable cause rule is what is operative here. I'm
saying that for probable cause purposes we regard the
police collectively, and why, since our privacy is at
stake there and is at stake here -- why shouldn't we
have a collective consent rule, too?
MR. METZLER: You certainly could --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That -- that's my proposal.
MR. METZLER: You certainly could adopt that
rule, and that would be a -- an additional reason for
police to enter beyond what has been thus far
established by this Court.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do you decide
whether the confidential informant should be considered
an employee of the police? Let's say this is the tenth
undercover operation he has engaged in. They give him
$100 after every undercover operation. I mean, is he an
employee of the police department?
MR. METZLER: I don't think his employment
status is -- is what is at issue. The question is
whether he is an agent of the state for the purpose that
he is inside -- for the purposes of making an arrest of
the person inside the home.
Here the confidential informant, all he is
really doing is acting as a surveillance device. He is
telling the officers outside what is happening inside.
And he gives them probable cause.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why doesn't -- that
doesn't make him an agent of the police?
MR. METZLER: No, I don't think so. He
might be an agent for some purposes but he is not an
agent for purposes of making an arrest inside, which is
what they want to do.
JUSTICE ALITO: What is it there is a State
statute that says that confidential informants may be
designated by the police department to assist in making
arrests?
MR. METZLER: If there was some assist to
making an arrest -- of the government, then assuming we
are following Justice Souter's few exceptions, then I
think that they would fall into that exception. But
here, of course, the confidential informant is no such
thing. This confidential informant was not active
politically. He wasn't making an arrest. There was
no --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He wasn't acting on
his own. He was acting for the police. He didn't
decide I'm going to do this and -- because you know, I
want to do it, and it just so happens the police are
involved as well.
MR. METZLER: Well, that's true. He was
acting with the police but he wasn't acting for the
police. And nothing that the -- that the confidential
informant did inside, even if attributed to the police,
would give police the right to cross that threshold. If
this confidential informant were a police officer, I
think you would have to base it on the power of the
police to make the arrest inside, the power of the State
to make that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even if there is such a
thing as citizen's arrest, I think it was part of this
record that -- that they do not want confidential
informers to go making arrests, so that the police
distinguish the confidential informer.
MR. METZLER: That's correct,
Justice Ginsburg. Both the Solicitor General and the
Petitioners agree that confidential informants should
not and would not be making these arrests. So the
function of the confidential informant is really as I
said, just a surveillance device; and what is important
is not what he is doing but what the police are doing
who are outside.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But going back to why
should we decide this question, particularly in Fourth
Amendment cases when these issues will come up on
suppression motions, so there isn't a need to decide
them in the -- in the civil context.
MR. METZLER: But I think in general we are
talking about a very small category of cases like this
one where their -- the criminal defendant won on the
Fourth Amendment and then the police bring up some new
argument on a qualified immunity defense because there
would already be some law on the questions that were
decided in the -- in the criminal case.
So in those limited circumstances it seems
to put too much of a thumb on the scale on the side of
police that says well, you can come up with a new theory
and you don't even have to show that it applies; all you
have to show is that nobody has ever rejected your
theory and then it is not fairly established. I don't
think in that small number of cases that the balance
should really tilt that far towards police. And here,
here it's certainly not, where the Solicitor General and
the Petitioners both agree that the Court should decide
both questions.
The constitutional question here is not very
difficult. It boils down to, in the absence of exigent
circumstances, could any reasonable officer have
believed that the two circumstances they would like to
see in previous cases -- that is, that a confidential
informant is inside, and that he sends a signal out that
there is probable cause -- do those make any difference
whatsoever to the calculation of whether there are
exigent circumstances or consent? The answer is no and
no reasonable officer could have believed otherwise. If
there are no further questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Stirba, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT BY PETER STIRBA,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. STIRBA: The colloquy about the safety
concerns when the officer or the confidential informer
are in the home I think highlight why the distinction
between a confidential informant and the officer really
doesn't make much meaningful headway in terms of the
Fourth Amendment. Obviously if the police officer was
acting under cover in this particular situation he would
not have announced -- there were three arrestees who
were actually in the premises at the time of the
follow-up entry. He would not have said after the drug
transaction occurred "oh, by the way, I'm a police
officer, I'm here to arrest you," for obvious reasons
connoting safety and other issues which would have been
attendant to them.
Similarly the confidential informant isn't
going to do that, either, for the same particular
problem, even if the confidential informant had arrested
powers under State law. The issue is the police officer
can call up for backup and assistance to effectuate
arrest, which is specifically what occurred here.
Similarly, there is no really distinction to be drawn
between a confidential informant as a government actor
allowing for the additional entry or follow-up entry of
additional officers for backup and assistance to make
sure the arrest is safe and secure than if you have a
police officer.
The second point I would like to make is the
first time any Federal circuit drew this distinction
between a confidential informant and a police officer
was the Tenth Circuit decision. They adopted consent
once removed. They just limited it to a police officer.
Obviously the police officers involved in this case
could not reasonably be expected to anticipate such a
distinction being drawn, especially given the fact that
there was at least a Seventh Circuit body of law, the
Sixth Circuit body of law, and as we argue, which we
think is a fair reading of Gramble -- because they cite
the Seventh Circuit body of law that includes the
confidential informant -- there were at least three
circuits that rejected that distinction, and you in 2000
confirmed that in the Sixth Circuit there is no
distinction as a matter of this particular doctrine
between a confidential informant and a police officer.
And finally with respect to the exigent
circumstances cases, and you can look at any one that
was cited by the Respondent, there is no mention of
Lewis, there is no mention of consent once removed,
there is no mention of any abrogation of privacy. Those
issues were not raised, just like the issues were not
raised in the criminal appeal of Mr. Callahan's
conviction; and so therefore they are really not
relevant, they are not probative, and we are not
suggesting this is an exigent circumstances case, nor
are we suggest relying on for purposes of the Fourth
Amendment issue any implied consent.
We have rested our -- the justification for
the Fourth Amendment issue on search incident and also
the Lewis doctrine because we think this is a Lewis
case. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
the case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
12:16 22:22 23:13 3:24 19:8 22:3 30:20 35:23
56:6 5:22 7:24 8:9 46:25 47:11 29:24 30:2,15 bad 10:11
22:9,17 27:22 anticipate 55:1 32:12 40:14 47:22 52:23
agree 29:18 12:9,13 14:13 51:18 54:5,13 22:6
53:25 30:10,25 37:18 appeals 19:11 51:20,25 basis 12:2 14:1,9
10:19 alleged 17:18 APPEARAN... 44:22 50:18,20 behalf 1:15,18
27:19 allow 48:15 1:14 assistance 26:23 1:22 2:4,6,9,12
allowed 30:7 appendix 11:15 30:2 43:23,25 3:7 18:8 28:18
44:4 alternative 25:7 applied 19:19 26:19 belief 15:8
49:17 Amendment applies 52:20 assuming 19:16 believe 5:15
3:23,25 4:6 6:4 apply 46:9 29:19 50:21 12:10,22,23
30:9 37:22 12:22 24:8 attempt 21:24 41:18
46:11,13 53:24 55:23,25 argue 6:3 9:20 32:11 28:25 53:6,12
47:1,2 8:8 55:4 attended 9:8 best 21:23
amicus 1:19 2:6 argued 17:14 attributed 51:11 beyond 49:18
54:23 amounts 11:17 arguing 33:20 automatically body 55:3,4,6
analysis 10:17 2:2,10 3:4,6 28:3 bothers 26:4
announced 28:17 33:23 Aziano 7:9 breakfast 40:4,8
31:15 45:23 46:5,10 certainty 15:12 32:10,15,17 concede 28:11
18:17,21 19:23 18:4,6,11 52:17 53:5,6 concludes 25:11
30:3 31:16,17 32:23 33:17,19 cited 7:20 17:23 conduct 4:19
41:17 36:13,25 38:22 City 1:15 confidential 5:9
categorically 50:10 51:3 clearly 9:7,18 9:22 10:5,7,8
category 9:23 chose 16:15 16:23 17:7 15:23 16:6,10
19:4,6 cause 3:16 11:11 6:20,21,24 7:1 25:25 33:2,9 28:22 29:11
32:13 11:20,23 12:6 7:3,5,9,18,21 34:7 36:9 37:2 31:17 33:6
12:10,19,23 7:23 8:3 17:10 37:5 38:25 37:16 40:18,23
14:1,3,9,15 36:22 37:1,5 closer 29:11 42:8 49:21
5:1,6,7 20:4,13,18 40:2,10,17,20 college 9:8 53:7,20,22
21:1,22,25 40:23,25 41:3 colloquy 53:19 54:8,10,15,22
6:2,11,18 22:3 32:20 41:10,10,10 come 4:8 6:1 9:2 55:7,11
7:1,2,3 46:2,7 47:13 54:21,23 55:3 21:10 26:24 confirm 20:2
8:15 48:12,18,20,23 55:4,6,9 27:2 30:16,20 21:17
9:6 10:24 48:25 49:1,2,9 circuits 3:11 34:13,14 35:19 confirmed 22:2
16:19 49:10 50:9 7:14 39:10,16 35:21 36:20 55:9
18:13,24 53:9 41:9,12 55:8 39:20 42:7,8 conflict 23:3
21:5 23:1 cert 34:1 Circuit's 38:24 43:6 47:7 52:7 conflicts 24:10
26:12 certain 11:1 circumstance 52:19 confusions
28:21 31:20 29:13 30:4 comes 41:24 24:11
certainly 4:12 31:9 45:2 coming 26:8 connoting 54:6
32:6,9 9:19 20:17 circumstances 33:6 47:11 consent 3:19,24
34:5,16 21:2 32:9 17:15,24 20:20 committed 4:6,13 5:1,2,3
35:13 34:14,21 36:19 20:23 21:3 26:21 28:3 5:13,25 6:1
38:13 39:2 47:2 26:25 28:5 compel 25:9 17:13,17,22,25
40:22,25 48:15 49:14,16 29:3,4 30:6 competent 19:1,8,15,18
45:10 52:25 31:1,12 32:7 29:15 19:22 20:7,10
26:4 contours 4:17 38:19 41:16 33:4 dispel 20:2
28:12,21 contrary 16:22 42:10 defendant 52:12 dispute 48:21
25:25 cover 53:25 defense 52:14 dissenting 8:2
32:22 controlling 37:4 covered 41:24 defined 4:16 dissipate 11:18
38:17 37:4 39:6 covers 20:8 definitely 36:23 dissipated 15:5
conviction 55:19 create 30:8 45:1definition 37:1 16:17 20:22
41:15 CORDELL 1:3 45:5,17 department distinction 7:24
46:11 correct 5:11 created 43:16 1:18 27:13 10:20 41:12
48:1,2,3 6:12,17 8:5 44:2,24 49:5 46:4 48:9 53:21 54:14,21
49:13 16:21,24 19:1 creation 43:2 49:25 50:18 55:2,8,10
54:23 19:21 28:6 crime 26:21 depends 36:18 distinguish
29:7 30:5 44:7 28:3 Deputy 1:17 51:21
26:7 28:21 18:4 28:15 19:25 20:5 50:18 doctrinal 46:17
counted 8:17 55:18 determination doctrine 3:19,24
couple 12:15 curiae 1:19 2:7 determined 4:14 19:19,22 20:7
14:16 30:18 develop 35:19 56:1
4:1 7:3,6 17:5 danger 44:20 Diaz 7:9 48:7,7,9 50:7
43:9 19:10,10 22:25 45:19 8:11,14 32:21 door 4:8 32:11
23:25 24:19 deal 9:12 23:17 45:10 53:9 46:24 48:16
17:6 28:10,20 29:1 dealer 8:24 9:2 23:23 45:4
22:23 32:15 33:4,11 dealing 21:6 25:13 26:18 draw 7:24 10:20
25:1,4 34:4,6 35:3 dealt 8:20 31:5,16 drawers 22:19
36:11,23 37:3 decide 21:22 differently 39:6 drawn 54:14
33:12 37:21 38:10 24:1,21,25,25 39:10 55:2
35:12,15 39:12,23 41:6 32:16 33:12,13 difficult 23:5 drew 54:21
41:12,14,23,24 34:6 36:1,6,16 32:24,25 33:3 dropped 38:12
53:3 42:14,21 48:25 37:5 39:14,15 33:7,12,17,23 drug 3:15 8:23
courtroom 52:6,8 53:1 37:13 53:4 26:5,6 30:13
5:16 17:2 courts 3:12,19 52:16 dilemma 45:4 48:22 54:3
36:4,5,24 37:6 38:11,24 40:2 discretion 23:22 13:1,4,7,13,24
23:8 entire 26:8 eventually 15:17 F forward 12:17
32:13 39:20 everybody fact 4:14 13:13 found 12:20
entitled 17:9 evidence 12:16 17:2 25:10 4:6 6:4 8:8
31:3 40:3 43:8 50:23 36:16 Frank 12:17
54:3,16,16 42:18 50:22 fairly 52:22 36:15
30:17 equated 5:8 exigent 17:14,24 fault 13:16 8:7
equates 5:21,21 26:25 28:5 faulted 13:20 further 53:13
5:25 7:7 8:6 37:10,14 38:14 23:25 38:10 gamut 10:10
25:8 2:3,5,8,11 45:1,5,10,17 file 19:6 10:1 45:13,14
54:9 essence 12:8 45:23 46:23 finally 55:12 46:17,18 51:23
3:17,24 4:7 5:1 22:15 39:19,22 23:20 25:15,19 getting 20:12
16:23 17:8 22:9 38:20 36:2 41:10 Ginsburg 8:13
25:25 33:2,9 expected 9:22 fits 9:5 11:13 13:6,11
16:7 36:21 37:2,6 expeditious 24:2 flows 10:19 21:4 42:12,21
19:25 52:22 20:23 22:2 follow 19:12 52:5
49:23 establishing 36:14 38:7 39:3,22 Ginsburg's
49:18 15:11 extend 15:22 following 50:22 give 49:23 51:12
evening 12:23 extent 31:2 39:6 54:3,16 17:17 40:11
31:10,22 hypo 46:22,25 individually integrity 9:22,24
36:6 H hypothetical 34:20 48:12 10:13 22:15
43:17 half-hour 40:4 44:21,23 46:10 inevitable 17:15 interest 40:15
handful 33:3 informant 5:9 interested 14:6
48:20 handlers 22:18 identical 6:5 7:12,16,21,25 interrupt 22:21
24:5 happened 32:20 illegal 3:15 5:17 11:11,21 12:25 invasion 22:11
30:11 41:9 44:7 13:24 14:23 invitation 46:15
happening 50:8 illustrates 8:16 15:23 16:10 47:18,19
43:17,17 happens 51:6 imagine 31:16 20:1,8 21:6,19 invite 28:4
51:5 headway 53:23 imagining 31:15 22:13 26:20 invited 47:10
54:9 hear 3:3 6:17 31:16 27:18 28:22 invites 48:9
36:1 48:21 22:4 32:10,18 33:6 involve 40:17,17
42:5 heard 14:2,15 immunity 17:9 37:16 40:23 involved 6:22
16:2 18:17 22:23 41:4,7,13,21 7:16 19:7 51:7
15:4 29:1 37:7 52:14 51:11,13 52:1 41:20
17:6 38:24 implications 53:8,22 54:8 irrelevant 39:4
23:7 help 30:16 43:17 17:7 54:10,15,22 39:9,9
31:19 hidden 23:8 implicit 22:6 55:7,11 irrespective 4:1
42:21 31:22 implied 5:13 informants 5:2 17:4
5:18,22 highlight 53:21 important 3:21 10:6,7,8,12 19:14 28:11
8:9,10 holdings 7:6 3:21 18:1 16:6 21:15 33:5 35:19
home 3:13 5:18 35:12 52:2 40:18 50:17 36:7,8 42:7
22:9 13:17 14:24 impossibility 51:24 50:2 54:11
47:22 17:1 22:9 20:12 information 55:23,25
54:15 26:24 27:2 imputed 46:19 7:10 issued 21:1
40:3,15 41:25 incident 40:14 informer 8:22 55:17,17
46:17 12:16 13:25 22:11 27:3 32:18,20 49:2 28:17
48:17 29:8 30:13 23:4 instances 19:17 judges 23:12
36:23 38:21 individual 18:24 27:19 judgment 24:21
45:3,12,16,24 L litigated 18:1 26:3 35:11
50:10,16,22 lacked 22:14 look 22:18 26:3 53:23
52:5 53:14 Lake 1:15 55:13 mention 55:14
justices 18:2 LAPD 26:8 41:14 meritorious
4:5,21,24 justification Laughter 33:21 35:1 merits 26:17
6:8,14 17:19 55:24 38:1,5 49:7 lower 3:19,25 32:5,6,16
7:2,5 justified 38:17 law 3:25 4:22 5:15 17:13 35:19
8:4 5:21 6:8 9:23 23:24,25 33:10 message 24:6,13
9:4,11,19 K 33:24 34:1 24:15,19
16:24
10:2,4,9 Katz 18:18 17:7 25:25 36:24 Metzler 1:21 2:8
11:13,19 keep 34:4 35:14,18,25 luxury 34:2 28:16,17,19
Kelly 8:1 36:20 37:5,5 L.A 48:8,10 29:10,21,24
13:5,6 KENNEDY 38:3 39:7,20 30:5,18 31:2,8
26:16 27:25 M 32:9 33:16
52:15
28:7 29:18,22 54:11 55:3,4,6 magistrate 34:3,11,14,16
15:7,10 30:1,24 31:4 lawful 4:4 5:16 13:25 34:21 35:3,7
34:23 35:5,9 lawfulness 6:15 magistrates 35:11 36:10,18
43:20 44:1,6 learned 35:1 20:19,24 37:3 38:8 39:2
18:4,6 44:16,21 45:3 leave 32:14 main 11:1 42:13 39:11,19 40:19
19:12 45:12,16 44:11 42:17,19 40:22 41:8,14
21:4 Kennedy's leaves 31:22 making 22:13 41:22 42:5,10
23:5,17 46:22 led 15:17 19:2 28:4 30:13 42:20,23 43:7
kill 31:24 legal 10:19 47:23 50:4,14 43:12,15,24
26:2,14 killed 30:11,17 20:25 50:18,21 51:1 44:3,9,14,19
27:6,25 kind 10:2 25:14 leniency 9:12 51:20,25 45:1,8,14,21
27:8 Let's 49:22 MALCOLM 45:24 47:1,20
knew 46:7 level 4:9,13 1:17 2:5 18:7 48:5,14,24
know 4:18,19 41:19,22 man 37:24 43:22 49:14,16 50:1
32:23 10:16 16:11 Lewis 5:16 mandatory 50:12,20 51:8
23:6 25:19,20 17:21,25 55:15 18:16 24:19 51:22 52:10
26:17 28:1 56:1,1 material 8:10 mind 45:15
35:5,9 33:19 35:23 liability 9:15 10:16 minutes 53:15
36:13,25 38:3 41:3 light 28:1 mathematical misses 4:25
38:2,6 43:21 51:5 limited 44:5 15:11 mistake 43:21
39:8,13 knowledge 27:9 52:17 54:24 matter 1:11 9:16 mixed 23:13
41:2 27:10 46:2,3 line 31:11 41:17 20:25 22:15 morning 40:8
42:4 46:14,15,19 45:25 44:10,17 55:10 motion 19:3
47:14,14 lines 39:22 56:6 motions 52:8
43:10,13 known 3:18 16:7 listening 48:20 mean 4:25 15:10 move 34:7
44:1,6 knows 8:23 38:2 literature 38:4 21:8 23:6 multiple 24:8
47:5 litigant's 25:9 24:17 25:5 municipality
officer 4:7 5:5,6 41:25 42:1,2 13:3 phone 11:6
6:4,22 45:14 pick 11:6
27:8 21:7,8,9,20 19:15,18,22 pages 9:1 plan 30:7
22:16 26:13,19 20:7 22:8 paradox 45:4 planned 31:3,9
28:24 29:8,12 54:24 55:15 part 17:22 51:18 please 3:9 18:12
15:24 37:17 39:3 48:16 46:4 53:25 30:23
20:9 40:4,6,8,24 operation 13:12 54:9 55:10 plus 48:3
41:4,5,13 43:3 15:17 16:25 particularly point 4:25,25
45:21 43:5,8,13,16 21:23 22:1 34:5 52:6 5:6 9:1 10:3
52:8 44:10,18,20 49:23,24 parties 18:24 11:6 13:23
32:8 48:10 51:13 43:4 49:9 paycheck 10:21 31:5 36:13
45:15 53:5,12,20,22 operative's 22:1 Payton 31:11 42:19 46:12
54:19,22,24 24:24 25:3,6 41:16 48:25 points 6:13 8:25
officers 3:13 4:3 opinions 37:23 people 44:22 4:18,23 5:1,2,5
16:4,25 17:8 opposed 40:18 perfectly 4:9 7:25 8:6,12,15
52:23 26:1 27:4 options 30:23 17:3 31:14 11:4,9 12:23
34:20 oral 1:11 2:2 3:6 person 5:25 13:9,16,19
43:10,17 44:8 ordinarily 21:12 42:17 47:5,10 20:1,18 21:7,8
53:24 officer's 27:9,10 outset 20:3 2:11 3:6 53:17 27:2,4,10 28:4
43:18 44:4 outside 46:12 Petitioner 4:3 28:13,23 29:2
54:4,13 okay 7:13 8:4 40:1 2:12 3:7 18:10 30:12,16 31:6
40:18,24 premises 28:2 49:5 54:10 36:9 52:14 52:1,24 53:22
54:2 problems 11:16 qualify 40:10 54:14 55:19
presence 21:17 17:10 question 9:13 reason 12:3
37:16 proceed 35:25 11:22 12:19 13:19 15:23
44:7,10 presented 17:13 proceeding 19:1 15:25 16:12,20 17:17 23:10
46:2,3 presumptively 19:8 18:20 20:6,9 27:6 31:9 36:1
29:2 37:11 proceedings 20:11,14 22:23 40:11 47:10,12
47:13 42:3,9,11 19:5 22:23 23:1,3 47:12 49:17
48:9 previous 9:10 process 47:9 24:25 25:19 reasonable 15:7
53:7 professor's 26:2,4 31:5 28:24 32:17
previously 39:21 32:24,25 33:13 37:15 39:21
50:11,18 19:20 proffered 25:8 33:14,18,23,25 40:1,5 42:15
principal 22:5 progression 34:4,5,7,8,10 53:5,12
23:25 25:15 35:2,12,18,21 reasonably 4:3
principle 4:6 proper 46:25,25 35:24 36:2,16 55:1
54:4,11 16:22 proposal 49:15 36:17,22 37:14 reasoning 45:25
principles 3:23 proposition 10:1 41:20 42:5,7 reasons 16:5,16
prior 45:25 10:11 28:8 45:7 50:2 52:6 27:8 47:16,24
22:10,11 27:3 prosecution questions 12:2 REBUTTAL
55:16 proven 36:12 44:15 52:15 recognized 3:22
probable 3:16 psychological quite 19:15 23:5 14:17,23 51:19
28:2 12:6,10,19,23 pure 4:13 reduced 22:10
13:2,15,18 purely 25:3,20 R regard 34:3
39:15 16:16 17:2 50:3 raised 55:17,18 regarded 10:13
32:19 46:2,7 46:1 47:13 reach 36:1 rejected 52:21
48:19,23,25 50:4,13,14 read 7:22 28:7 relevant 40:7
43:25 p.m 56:5 26:21 27:11 rely 40:10 45:6
40:16,21 41:2 says 4:8 11:21 40:2,10,19 Souter 4:24 5:12
41:11,18 42:4 38:13,23 39:25 55:3,6 5:20 6:8,14,16
20:7 42:6 44:12 48:8 50:17 shady 8:17 6:24 7:2,5,13
54:24 49:20 50:10 52:19 shapes 9:3 7:17,19 8:4
51:3 53:14 scale 52:18 sharply 22:10 9:11,19 10:2,4
rule 3:18,20,22 search 6:10 shown 27:12 13:5,19 14:6
33:16 33:8,8 36:4 second 11:12 significance 45:24 47:8
46:18 37:7,12,12 14:25 31:22 10:19 48:2,6,16 49:4
39:4 40:5 54:20 Similarly 54:8 49:8,15
2:9 17:24 45:20 46:9 20:22 simple 37:7 specific 4:16
28:18 49:9,13,17 section 36:21 simply 25:1 specifically
ruled 7:11 secure 54:18 30:19 54:13
rummage 22:19 31:20 53:7 situation 27:9 spends 11:4
run 10:10 21:8 seen 13:24 15:1 situations 21:16 37:1
16:21 safety 43:14,16 sends 53:8 small 11:17 20:13
24:5 47:23 53:19 sense 25:5,6 52:11,23 star 9:9
34:18,20 54:6 33:15 smartest 37:24 stars 23:11
39:13 Salt 1:15 sensibly 20:9 social 38:20 starting 13:21
49:4 sanctity 40:15 sent 15:21 21:7 Solicitor 1:17 state 3:11 17:21
Saucier 18:18 32:19 51:23 52:25 18:25 22:17
16:18 18:4 36:11 seriously 11:22 11:5 stated 30:23
24:23 saw 11:7,21 45:6 somebody's statement 10:16
28:15 12:15 set 21:23 39:23 25:15 44:7
32:23 saying 23:9 39:23 43:2 sorry 7:22 States 1:1,12,19
34:9 25:24 26:5 settled 3:25 sort 30:6 46:16 2:6 18:8 37:21
27:12 30:2 Seventh 5:10 47:2 38:14
36:13,25 31:12 38:17 6:20 7:9,21 sorts 9:23 status 50:2
39:8,13 45:17 49:10 37:19 38:10 sound 24:21 statute 50:17
37:6 suggest 55:22 telling 50:8 45:21 47:2,3 try 20:1
suggesting 49:8 ten 39:9,15 49:4 50:1,12 24:7
20:17 35:19 38:22,24 39:1 55:5 56:1 8:25 11:4,10
22:20,25 support 3:20 39:3,4,17 thinking 23:9 11:15,21 13:24
24:14 7:20 49:22 54:23 thinks 26:7 14:24 18:21
25:5,22 supported 17:2 terms 5:21 8:11 39:15 25:7,13 26:18
27:1,16 supporting 1:19 12:6 15:24 thought 13:6 30:21 53:6
29:7
18:10 47:9 53:23 21:5 26:9 two-hour 15:2
3:5,6,8 8:1 test 8:8,9 thousands 24:9 type 39:18
5:12 6:6 suppress 19:3 testified 11:14 three 3:11 6:20 typically 23:23
7:1,3,8 suppression 11:25 15:6 7:5,8 41:8
8:7 52:8 16:4 53:15 54:1 U
9:7,13 Supreme 1:1,12 testimony 20:18 55:7
12:8 12:5 13:17 28:15,19 53:14 thumb 52:18 ultimately 19:3
13:3,9 18:20 31:6 56:2,3 tilt 52:24 uncertain 32:4
14:4,10 35:14 54:18 THEODORE time 3:10,23
16:3 50:7 52:2 theoretically 6:18 11:12,21
42:3,9
18:5 suspect 19:23 theory 5:14 15:4 16:25 undercover 8:12
53:15,17 47:5 40:13 52:19,22 18:3,16 20:4 20:1 21:9,16
suspicions 20:2 they'd 13:25 21:24 26:1 21:19 26:12,19
8:21 26:9 30:18 times 42:11,14 30:14 43:4
51:18 tough 32:23 underlying
take 23:14,15 6:7 7:9 10:24 22:14 6:10 14:23
taken 12:18 19:21 20:14,17 9:10 13:14 United 1:1,12,19
talked 7:23 22:22,25 23:21 54:4 38:14
42:12 52:11 32:18 33:17 true 10:10 17:20 unreasonable
24:1 37:10 38:16,16 20:3 40:5 48:7 7
20:19,24 42:17,24 43:21 written 37:23,24
18:18 20:24 23:4 Y
Washington 1:8 year 24:7
31:20
36:17
26:24 way 4:17 5:15 07-751 1:5 3:4
39:21 19:9 21:23
44:4 32:11 34:13 10-year 24:9
12:06 56:5
went 14:25 1983 36:21
47:4 12:5 2
18:19 14:7 15:10 2008 1:9
30:13 whatsoever 244-245 11:15
35:24 32:21 53:10 256 11:15
45:12,16 whichever 33:8 257 11:15
50:15 wide 9:1 28 2:9
wind 39:12
wondering 36:3 4
words 4:7 44:24 47 16:4
14:1 workable 36:12
15:5 working 46:4 5
16:1 works 22:11 50 24:7
17:6 53 2:12
world 5:4 37:25
23:7 29:3 6
6 9:1
