IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
BOB RILEY, GOVERNOR OF :
ALABAMA, :
Appellant :
v. : No. 07-77
YVONNE KENNEDY, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, March 24, 2008
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
KEVIN C. NEWSOM, ESQ., Birmingham, Ala,; on behalf
of the Appellant.
PAMELA S. KARLAN, ESQ., Stanford, Cal.; on behalf of the
Appellees.
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Appellees.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KEVIN C. NEWSOM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Appellant 3
PAMELA S. KARLAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Appellees 27
KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
Curiae, supporting the Appellees 47
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
KEVIN C. NEWSOM, ESQ.
On behalf of the Appellant 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:00 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Riley, Governor of Alabama, versus
Kennedy.
Mr. Newsom.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN C. NEWSOM
ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT
MR. NEWSOM: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This appeal presents two issues, both a
threshold jurisdictional question and a substantive
question concerning scope of section 5. We have
explained in some detail in our briefs why Governor
Riley's appeal in this case is timely and why this Court
has jurisdiction to resolve the merit. The Solicitor
General has agreed with us on the jurisdictional
question.
I certainly want to answer any questions
that the Court may have concerning the jurisdictional
issue, but with the Court's permission I would like to
proceed in my affirmative presentation directly to the
merits, and specifically the second of two independent
bases that we have urged for reversal here. Our
argument under this Court's decision in Young versus
Fordice is perhaps the simplest and most straightforward
way to resolve this case. In Young, this Court held
that a state voter registration plan, despite its
promulgation, preclearance and active implementation to
register 4,000 voters, was nonetheless in force or
effect within the meaning of section 5 and thus was not
a valid section 5 baseline for purposes of measuring
future changes, because the Court said it resulted only
from a temporary misapplication of State law and it was
immediately corrected upon acknowledgment that it was
unlawful in fact.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's pretty hard to
argue something wasn't in force and effect when they
have an election under it, isn't it?
MR. NEWSOM: Your Honor, I don't think --
Your Honor is correct that the only possible distinction
between Young and this case is the holding of the 1987
election, but I don't think the election can make the
difference here, for this reason: It preceded solely by
virtue of the vagaries of the State litigation process.
The challenge preceded the election by two months. That
election was conducted under a cloud of litigation that
everyone certainly knew about and it went forward only
because, in the wake of Young, the trial court
temporarily misapplied State law.
If a trial court had gotten State law right
to begin with, Your Honor, and had enjoined the election
as we now all know it should have, then there never
would have been the election to point to as evidence
that 85-237 ever went into force or effect. And it
seems to me inconceivable, consistent with any
meaningful notion of federalism, that section 5 can
require a world in which a State trial court, as we say
in the reply brief, which exists at the bottom of the
state judicial hierarchy, can by getting State law wrong
in the first place lock into State law as a section 5
baseline an unconstitutional statute. I don't anybody,
on this side of the podium anyway, to be denying that
85-237 was, is now and was at its inception,
unconstitutional and thereby strip the Alabama Supreme
Court of its sovereign prerogative to correct the errors
of lower courts.
JUSTICE STEVENS: What if there had been no
challenge to that election, but two or three years later
somebody challenged the election and then the Supreme
Court said it was invalid.
MR. NEWSOM: Well, Justice Stevens --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Then there never would
have been a State statute.
MR. NEWSOM: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Then there never would
have been a State statute, a valid State statute.
MR. NEWSOM: Right. There are -- we have
pitched two different arguments in this case, Your
Honor. And under the, I think it's fair, to say the
broader of the two arguments, contained in Roman II of
our brief, that, the later action, nonetheless would not
be a change under section 5. But under the argument
that I was talking about specifically under Young versus
Fordice, I think it does make a difference that the
Alabama Supreme Court stepped in at the earliest
possible opportunity to invalidate this statute, again
as part of litigation that preceded the first and only
implementation, attempted implementation, of the
statute.
And I think the question at bottom here in
this case is whether section 5 provides State courts
with any breathing space whatsoever in which to conduct
this exercise of judicial review, and our submission is
that at the very least that it ought to extend so far as
to allow State courts to step in, as they did here, at
the earliest possible opportunity.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If the respondent prevails
in this case and you have a case similar to this one
that begins in the trial court, how do you think it
would work, that the plaintiffs in the trial court
action have to get preclearance either way? They have
to get preclearance in the event that they prevail? And
then the other side has to get preclearance in the event
that it doesn't. I mean, is that the way it would work
in your view?
MR. NEWSOM: I'm not frankly --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If I'm in State trial
court, how can I make a ruling if -- assuming the
respondents win in this case, if I know there has to be
preclearance?
MR. NEWSOM: Well, I think, Your Honor,
that's certainly part of the point that we've emphasized
here as one of the key federalism issues in this case,
is that this case really does in a very functional way
strip State courts of their jurisdiction to exercise
judicial review, whether at the trial court stage or at
the supreme court stage because on Appellee's theory
once the statute is precleared it is effectively locked
in place and that the trial court or the supreme court
needs permission from the Executive Branch in Washington
to exercise the authority to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose States get --
State courts get preclearance all the time with district
changes, don't they? Or how does it work? They just
hold the judgment in abeyance until there is
preclearance, and couldn't -- and if so, couldn't do you
that here?
MR. NEWSOM: Well, to be sure the Appellees
are correct that it is the administration of the change
itself that requires preclearance. So I don't want the
Court to think that our position here is that courts are
having to -- to render sort of provisional judgments
that are then subject to preclearance in Washington.
The point is that, so I think in the redistricting
example, Your Honor, it would be the implementation of
the redistricting that would require preclearance.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are there any other
district cases that require preclearance except those
that redistrict the, the State?
MR. NEWSOM: No Your Honor, and the point is
that no one here denies, certainly the State does not
deny, that a State court order redistricting, redrawing
a map, in essence, and giving rise or exercising what is
functionally, as this Court has said, a legislative
power requires redistricting. No one doubts that. But
the question here is quite different: Whether if there
is a spectrum of State court decisions with
redistricting at one end, my case has to be at the other
end of the spectrum.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Are there district court --
there must be -- district court cases in which the State
trial court has invalidated on some State constitutional
ground legislation redistricting that has been passed by
the legislature? When that happens, have those opinions
been precleared?
MR. NEWSOM: Not to my knowledge, Your
Honor. And I will confess that I'm not aware of any
right off the top of my mind that fit that paradigm.
But not to my knowledge. The only --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't the reason that
there would be no reason to preclear them? I mean, if
the State court invalidates legislative redistricting,
and does so before there has been a preclearance
request, in other words, if it gets into State court
right off the bat, then there's no State law
subsequently to ask the feds to preclear.
MR. NEWSOM: That might be right, Justice
Souter, but I'm not sure that I understand the
implications for this case. If you could --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I guess what I'm
saying is your "No" answer does not prove much. In
other words, you're trying to make the case here that
there is something extremely unusual about this. And I
thought your answer to Justice Scalia in effect was one
reason that it's unusual is that we don't have any of
these cases in, in which a State court has knocked out a
State law that is then subject to some kind of
preclearance review. And my only point was, if I
understand the situation, as long as the preclearance
review had not preceded the State constitutionality
judgment, following the State constitutionality judgment
there would be no law to take to Washington, whether it
be to -- to the Justice Department or to -- or to the
Court, and ask to have precleared. So the fact that
there are no such cases doesn't prove anything.
MR. NEWSOM: Well, I think the point that I
was trying to make, Your Honor, is that this Court has
said in construing section 5 that it will not construe
it so as to exacerbate federalism costs. And one of the
reasons that the federalism costs are exacerbated here
is that this is -- this scenario is simply unlike any,
as we say in the brief, that this Court has --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, that may be --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you said in answer to
Justice Souter that this is your case. There is no law
that's precleared.
MR. NEWSOM: Well, it's certainly true, Your
Honor, that when a state Court, as any court -- as this
Court made clear only last month in Danforth, when a
court exercises judicial review to invalidate a practice
that's unconstitutional it is not changing or making new
law as it goes along, but declaring what the law has
always been.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is a law to be
cleared if you -- if you assume that the existence of a
law to be cleared occurs before that law has been tested
in the courts. In the hypothetical we've been
discussing, just as in this case, there was a State law
and if you assume the State law is valid before it's
gone through the judicial clearance process, there is a
State law change when the clearance process results in
striking down the law. I don't -- it seems to me that
the two situations are pretty parallel.
MR. NEWSOM: Well, with respect, Justice
Scalia, my case is the latter situation, where there was
technically a law in place. 85-257 to be sure was in
place. Now, whether it was in force or effect within
the meaning of this Court's decision in Young is
different, but it was in place.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it was precleared at
what point? The 1985 law was precleared before the
litigation?
MR. NEWSOM: Yes, Your Honor, it was
precleared virtually immediately, so let's say in '85.
I don't remember the month specifically, but it was
precleared in '85.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it was submitted by?
MR. NEWSOM: Submitted by the State of
Alabama.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. And then the
litigation came.
MR. NEWSOM: Right. The litigation was
commenced in April of 1987.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so your point is that
if the circuit court -- there are only two levels of
court in this, the circuit court and the supreme court?
MR. NEWSOM: For purposes of this
litigation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if the circuit
court had gotten the State law right, then there never
would have been an election?
MR. NEWSOM: Well, that's right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: There never would have been
perhaps preclearance if it got it right soon enough.
MR. NEWSOM: Well, that's true, but of
course courts don't get to reach out and grab the
disputes and bring them into courts.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, but if the -- if the
challenging parties go into court at the first
opportunity and you don't have an election sort of
coming up next week, I would suppose that in cases like
that, the State would at least allow the State
litigation to proceed to some level. And if in point of
fact that State litigation resulted in a declaration
that the new statute was unconstitutional in some
fashion, one would not expect the State then to bull
ahead and ask for preclearance, as opposed to trying
either to appeal at the State level or to correct the
statute.
MR. NEWSOM: That's right, Your Honor, but
it -- but the challenge here would not have been ripe
until 1987. There was no vacancy on the horizon. And
so the challenge here was brought at the earliest
conceivable opportunity when the vacancy became a
reality.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I will assume that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Even in the hypothetical
Justice Souter proposes, I don't know the rules in
Alabama, but I can see a Federal court saying: Well,
this is premature; it hasn't been precleared; why should
I pass on the validity of something that might not be
precleared?
MR. NEWSOM: Well, I think that's entirely
possible, Your Honor, and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: On the other hand, I can
also see the attorney general saying: Why should I
preclear it? It hasn't even been determined to be law
in Alabama yet.
Does the Justice Department preclear stuff
that is -- that is in the midst of litigation?
MR. NEWSOM: The Justice Department's
regulations at 51.22, Your Honor, say that they will not
preclear things that are not final and that are subject,
it says, to revision by court -- by court judgment. But
that regulation is specific, the Federal Register
says --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How does that apply to a
State statute which is fully enacted and then there's
going to be a challenge?
MR. NEWSOM: The truth is the regulations
don't speak specifically to that question, and the
reason is that the regulations are quite clear in the
Federal Register at 46 Federal Register 872 that they
don't deal with changes, so-called, brought about as a
result of court judgments. The regulation that I was
referring to, 51.22, refers specifically to State courts
having an administrative role to play in --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where they are doing the
districting or --
MR. NEWSOM: That's right, redistricting,
reannexation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know of any cases
where -- where a piece of State legislation has been in
the middle of litigation where the Justice Department
has precleared it?
MR. NEWSOM: No, Your Honor, not right off
-- not as I'm standing here, I don't.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems like an exercise
in futility.
MR. NEWSOM: But the point -- Justice
Ginsburg, getting back to your point so you'll
appreciate the timeline, in April of 1987 the challenge
is brought. In June of 1987 the election goes forward.
So the challenge here preceded the election by two
months. And the point that I've been trying to make is
that the -- had the trial court gotten State law right
to begin with and enjoined the election, as we now know
it should have, there never would have been an election
to point to, to show within the meaning of Young that
the -- that the statute was ever put into force and
effect.
JUSTICE BREYER: What happened -- I have a
factual question. In around July, Mr. Sam Jones is
sworn in and now he is in office until sometime after, I
guess, September 1988, a little over a year, and then
the Governor appointed him. Well, he must have gotten
paid during that year.
MR. NEWSOM: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And then when the Governor
appointed him, what does the appointment look like?
Does it say it's retroactive? No. I would be
surprised. I mean, you're not going to tell me it is.
So my guess is he's appointed as of -- let's say he's
appointed by the Governor. It must have said as of
when, and it probably said as of September '88.
MR. NEWSOM: The truth is, Your Honor, I do
not know what --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I think it's
important to me because, for this reason: I would guess
they don't make it retroactive or you'd know it, and
therefore we -- we have more. We have the facts, the
following facts, as to whether -- and this is what
Fordice says; it says this is a practical question.
It's not some theory about whether it's unconstitutional
or not unconstitutional. The question is as practical
matter was it in force and effect? And, as a practical
matter, one, there was an election under it; two,
somebody was elected; three, he took office; four, he
held that office for a year and was paid for it. All
right? Why, as a practical fact, as a practical matter,
we do not say that special election law was in force and
effect for about a year and two months?
MR. NEWSOM: Your Honor, the difference, or
what makes this case just like Young versus Fordice, is
that the relevant -- the relevant implementation in
Young was not election. The relevant implementation in
Young was registration. And this Court's opinion makes
clear that 4,000 real, live flesh-and-blood voters were
registered.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, their registering is a
precondition of voting. Not one person had ever voted.
Moreover, they all had to register again. So the net
practical effect of the election, of plan two in Young
v. Fordice, was null, zero, zilch. And the practical
effect here is that somebody is elected under the law,
holds office for a year and two months, and is paid. It
seems to me quite a big difference.
MR. NEWSOM: With respect, Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. I mean, that's
what I wanted to know. I mean, maybe it's different if
this was a retroactive something or other, but I --
you're not aware of that.
MR. NEWSOM: No, I can't --
JUSTICE BREYER: So I assume it wasn't.
MR. NEWSOM: -- tell you as I'm standing
here that the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. NEWSOM: -- that the appointment was
retroactive, but I do think that, given the nature of
the implementation, the relevant implementation in Young
being registration, the fact that 4,000 people were
registered does bring this case pretty close to Young.
And the fact that --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Suppose I
reject that on the ground of what I said. I'm not
saying I would, but suppose I did. Isn't that the end
of this case? Because then, if I reject that, there is
a plan. The plan is called "the special election plan."
It is in effect for a year and two months. People hold
office in election and they're paid. And then a new
plan comes along, the governor's plan. Now that seems
to me a change, and the statute says that if you have a
change, which this would be, you've got to preclear it.
End of matter.
Now, what's your argument about that?
MR. NEWSOM: With respect to that, Your
Honor, it's that I don't think it is accurate to say
that this was the governor's plan. The Governor was not
--
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm just using that as
shorthand, the shorthand for a system under which the
officeholder is appointed by the government -- by the
governor.
MR. NEWSOM: Right. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: And I'm saying if we start
from the base that the plan is special election which
was in force and effect for a year and two months, then
for whatever set of reasons there is a change, and the
State has to preclear the change. Now, what's the
answer to that?
MR. NEWSOM: The answer to that, Your Honor,
is that the shorthand misses the fact here that what
we're talking about is that the change results here from
a State court exercising judicial review. And this is
-- that is different in kind from any sort of decision
that this Court has ever rendered about --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So you're
saying that if the cause of a change is a court
decision, then you do not have to preclear. So that if
in Mississippi in 1975, there had been a ruling of a
court which said segregationist plan number one here is
no good, so we're going to go back to the even worse
plan that was before, that that wouldn't have had to
have been precleared?
MR. NEWSOM: The point, Your Honor, is that
that --
JUSTICE BREYER: You see where I'm going,
and I'm not phrasing it correctly, but you can answer it
anyway.
MR. NEWSOM: So the point, Your Honor, is
that the result of that court decision would have been
immediately enjoined under the Fourteenth Amendment, the
Fifteenth Amendment, or section 2. The point about
section 5 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It would have been able to
be brought up here if it was based on a discriminatory
intent, certainly.
MR. NEWSOM: Absolutely. This Court would
have cert jurisdiction if there were -- if you have the
--
JUSTICE BREYER: But what my question is, is
there any authority for the proposition that between
1964 and today, it mattered whether the cause of a
change in a State plan was a decision of let's say five
members of a court -- of a State court -- or whether it
was a legislative decision. Because that's what I think
you're arguing, and is there any authority that supports
you on that?
MR. NEWSOM: If I -- if I may, Justice
Breyer, as a preface it's important that I emphasize
simply as sort of a superstructure point here that as --
not only as the plaintiff in this case, but as the party
asking the Court to exacerbate federalism costs, within
the meaning of Bossier Parish, over what they have been
to this point, I think it's my opponents' burden to show
you that Congress clearly intended to include these
provisions, as opposed to my burden to show you that
Congress intended to exclude them. That's essentially
what this Court said in Gregory versus Ashcroft.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, they argue in their
brief that there were instances in which State supreme
courts participated prior to the enactment of the Voting
Rights Act in changes in election requirements for the
purposes of disenfranchising African-Americans. Are
they wrong on that? And if they're right on that, what
reason is there to think that, without any text in
section 5 to making an exception for changes that are
made by State courts, what would be the reason for
reading that in?
MR. NEWSOM: Well, I think there are -- if I
can answer in two parts. First with respect to the
legislative history, to be sure the Appellees and their
amici have brought forward a number of examples of State
court judges, principally southern State court judges,
doing some pretty despicable stuff, and I'm not here to
defend that. But with respect to the specific question
at issue here, whether Congress was in enacting section
5, was clued into this question and it had reason to
think that State Court exercises of judicial review
would give rise to the sorts of problems that section 5
was designed to inhibit, there simply is nothing to
support that suggestion.
Section 5, of course, was intended to do
something very specific. It was designed to prevent or
to catch government conduct that the more traditional
remedies in place at the time under the '57, '60 and '64
Civil Rights Acts, what we would today I think call a
section 2 suit, couldn't get. And the point here, in
addition to the Danforth that at some deep
jurisprudential level courts don't change law, the more
important practical point is that courts exercising
judicial review are institutionally incapable of
changing the law specifically in the way that Congress
was concerned about when it enacted Section 5.
Congress --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, counsel, since
you mentioned section 5, perhaps you ought to look at
it. It says that you have to preclear standards,
practices, whatever, different from that in force or
effect on November 1st, 1964.
Now, the Respondents in their brief accused
you of making the argument that since this isn't
different from what was in effect in 1964 you don't have
to preclear it. And you said, no, that's not what we're
saying; we take no position on that.
Why in the world did you say that? It says
quite clearly the standard has to be different from that
in force or effect on November 1st, '64. At that point
these people were appointed.
MR. NEWSOM: That's right, Your Honor.
There are two sort of different things going on here.
One, as a matter again of the Appellees' burden to show
you that these decisions are clearly included within the
text, quite clearly they are not, because November 1,
1964, as Your Honor quite correctly points out --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, in your reply
brief on page 8 you say you take no position on that
question.
MR. NEWSOM: With respect, what I say at
page 8 of the reply is that there is no need for this
Court to determine specifically how the November 1,
1964, language ought to operate in the legislative and
administrative change scenario. This Court in Presley
and again in Young versus Fordice has suggested in dicta
that perhaps the baseline might float, notwithstanding
the November 1, 1964 --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there wouldn't
be a different baseline for judicial changes than there
would be for legislative or executive changes, would
there?
MR. NEWSOM: No. You're -- I think you're
right, Your Honor, perhaps not. And this again goes to
the burden point that I was trying to make earlier. My
-- the sole purpose in citing the November 1, 1964,
language is to show that at the very least, to the
extent you're looking for some clear indication that
Congress intended to get these decisions, the text
cannot provide that clear indication.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I take it it's your
position -- and I noticed this in the question put to
you by Justice Breyer -- tell me if this is wrong, but
that it's not just the fact that the court makes a
decision, because the court may have discretion to
choose plan one, plan two, plan three, but it is if the
court makes a decision to show that the prior practice
was invalid, was void under State law.
MR. NEWSOM: That's right, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's the distinction, I
take it.
MR. NEWSOM: That's right, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Not the fact that it's
just the court, but the kind of decision the court
makes.
MR. NEWSOM: That's right. There are
different lines the court might choose to draw. This
case at most presents a question where a court is
exercising the power of judicial review to invalidate a
previously precleared statute. It might decide the case
more narrowly, as I said, under Young versus Fordice, on
a more fact-specific basis. But at the very most, the
Court would need to decide in this case is that the
State court exercises a judicial review to invalidate
previously precleared practices as compliant with
section 5 do not give rise to section 5 changes.
And, Chief Justice Roberts, just to get back
to the textual piece of this, we have, pointed, in
addition to the "in force or effect" language, which we
think -- which we think requires judgment for the
Governor on Young versus Fordice grounds and the
November 1, 1964, language, we have also pointed to the
provision in section 5 that we have referred to as the
savings clause, which I think provides good reason at
the very least to think that Congress was thinking about
court decisions enjoining existing baselines differently
from the way it was thinking about the typical
legislative and administrative changes that have been
the grist of this Court's section 5 jurisprudence.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Newsom, before you
finish I would like to ask you a question about what
action Governor Riley would take if you're right on the
law? That is, a mistake by the Alabama Circuit Court
can't invalidate a law that the Supreme Court says on
judicial review of -- on review of the circuit court,
that the circuit court got it wrong.
The first time around, when Jones was
elected and then the Governor mooted any controversy by
just appointing him. Now we have a similar situation.
We have somebody who has won an election overwhelmingly
against the person that the Governor appointed. There
are, what, five months left in the term? If your
position on the law is correct, would the Governor in
fact oust the person who was a four-to-one 1 winner in a
popular election and install the person who was a loser
in -- would that happen? Could we project based on what
happened the first time around that the Governor would
not so thwart the will of the people?
MR. NEWSOM: It would be the Governor's
option, Your Honor, whether to -- to do what was done in
1987 or '8, I suppose, and to install the winner of the
election or to reinstate Juan Chastang to his position.
I have not discussed with the Governor what his specific
intentions would be with respect to that. But it would
be his option to take one of those two courses under the
law.
I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Newsom.
Ms. Karlan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAMELA S. KARLAN
ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLEES
MS. KARLAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
I want to turn initially to two cases that
weren't mentioned yet by the Court that I think dispose
of the question of whether the law was in force or
effect. And I would like to direct the Court's
attention to page 101 of the joint appendix, because the
language I'm going to be talking about appears there in
the course of the Governor's request for reconsideration
of DOJ's objection. This is the language from this
Court's opinion in Young against Fordice. And it starts
midway down the page, where the Court says that: "The
simple fact that a voting practice is unlawful under
State law does not show entirely by itself that the
practice was never in force or effect." We agree.
And then the Court goes on to say: "A
State, after all, might maintain in effect for many
years a plan that technically or in one respect or
another violated some provision of State law," citing
Perkins against Matthews and City of Lockhart against
United States.
All that Young against Fordice does is
explain that that case is a sport that deviates from the
general rule that this Court has had that when a law is
in force or effect its constitutionality under State law
doesn't matter.
I'd also like to direct the Court's
attention to page 114 of the joint appendix, where Act
85-237's text appears, and direct you to the bottom of
the page in section 4, which says: "This Act shall
become effective immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Governor upon its otherwise becoming a
law," which it did in June of '85 when the State
obtained preclearance.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you agree that the
lawsuit to invalidate it was filed as soon as was
feasible?
MS. KARLAN: I don't honestly know the
answer to that question, Justice Scalia, because Alabama
law has different views, for example, on ripeness and
the like than Article III does. And this also goes to
the question that Justice Ginsburg asked at the very end
of the argument about the remedy in this case, because
Alabama law here is quite peculiar. And since we filed
our brief there have been two opinions by the Alabama
Supreme Court, in a case called Roper against Rhodes and
a case called Wood against Booth, that reiterated under
Alabama law once an election has been held, if no
contest litigation was timely brought, the fact that the
person is unentitled to remain in office does not allow
contest after the fact.
So we have a peculiar problem in this case,
which is, even if this Court were to reverse, there was
an election held here pursuant to Alabama Act 2006-342
that was conceivably valid under Alabama law. And the
question whether to replace Merceria Ludgood who won
that election, as you noted, by a four-to-one margin,
with either Juan Chastang or somebody else is quite up
in the air.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why didn't the Alabama
Supreme Court say that in this very case?
MS. KARLAN: Well, in this case, the
election hadn't been held yet, Justice Scalia. That is,
the Alabama Supreme Court in the Riley decision here
ruled in the Governor's favor before we brought our
preclearance action, so there was no election on the
table.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then it was the district
judge that made Alabama go to the preclearance after the
second --
MS. KARLAN: Yes, that's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But still, if you take
this case at its essence, a circuit court got Alabama
law wrong and that's what you say counts as to make the
law operative.
The law becomes operative because an Alabama
intermediate court or trial court made a wrong decision
about Alabama law; and then when the supreme court
corrects it, that doesn't count. That's essentially
your position, that they're locked, Alabama is locked
into a mistake that was made about Alabama law by that
circuit court.
MS. KARLAN: No, Your Honor. We're not
saying that Alabama is locked in by the mistake of the
circuit court. What we're claiming here is that in
April of 1985, Alabama passed Act 85- 237. As a matter
of Alabama law, it went into effect. In 1985, Alabama
received preclearance. That law was on the books; an
election was held; a man served for three years. But
it's not just that, Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I don't think
-- I don't think I follow you that, as a matter of
Alabama law, it went into effect. Just because the
statute said it went into effect does not prove that it
went into effect. I think the Alabama --
MS. KARLAN: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the Alabama Supreme
Court would say it never went into effect because it was
unconstitutional.
MS. KARLAN: No. No, Your Honor. If you
look at page 5 of the defendant's trial brief, which is
-- I think it's Docket No. 16 -- you'll see that there
in footnote 5 the State says: We asked for the Alabama
Supreme Court to hold Act 85-237 void ab initio. They
did not do that, but we think they ought to have.
And so even as a matter of Alabama law, I
don't think this is 100 percent clear. But if I can
turn to the 2004 Act, because we think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But suppose they didn't
have that footnote. Suppose they said: We hold it void
ab initio. Then, what's your answer to Justice Scalia's
question?
MS. KARLAN: My answer to his question is
Perkins against Matthews and City of Lockhart against
United States still compel the result of finding that
this law went into effect as a matter of Federal law,
because the question of whether a law is in force or
effect is a question of construing section 5 of the
Voting Rights Act, which is Federal law.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you're saying that if
a State passes a statute -- a State legislature passes a
statute that's flagrantly in violation of the State
constitution, it immediately is precleared, it's locked
into place?
MS. KARLAN: Yes, I am.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That rule of law renders
constitutional under State law an act that would
otherwise not be constitutional.
MS. KARLAN: No, it does not render it
constitutional.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's what you're
saying.
MS. KARLAN: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying that's the
effect: It locks it in.
MS. KARLAN: It locks it in until the State
comes up with a constitutional cure, in the same way --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, but it can't go back.
MS. KARLAN: No, it cannot go back.
JUSTICE SCOUTER: It locks it in.
MS. KARLAN: Well, it doesn't -- it doesn't
require that they stay with that law. It simply says
they cannot make a change without obtaining
preclearance, because that's what section 5 does. It's
a clear, bright-line rule.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I ask: You're not --
correct me if I'm wrong. I didn't think you were
arguing that because of the preclearance followed by the
State determination of unconstitutionality, that the
State was required to follow that unconstitution law.
I thought your argument simply was that, in
effect, there was a stalemate at that point, and the
State was going to have to come up with some new law
that would be precleared. Am I correct?
MS. KARLAN: It's a little trickier than
that, Justice Souter, for the following reason. Let me
give you a hypothetical that will --
JUSTICE SCALIA: For the reason that, absent
their coming up with a new law, what law would be in
effect?
MS. KARLAN: That's what I was about to
explain.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And isn't the answer that
no law would be in effect? I mean, you're in the same
situation then that you would be in if there had been no
judicial litigation going on, the law had been brought
to the Justice Department or the D.C. court, had --
preclearance had been refused. The State at that point
didn't have the old law because it had been repealed.
It couldn't apply the new law because it wasn't
precleared, and somebody in Alabama would have to do
something.
Aren't we in essentially the same position
here?
MS. KARLAN: Well, we are, but as I
suggested, it's a little trickier than that. Because,
of course, the existing practice is for purposes of
section 5 the law that's in force or effect. So, for
example, suppose you had a State that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it was in force and
effect.
MS. KARLAN: Excuse me?
JUSTICE SOUTER: Does the theory require
that we assume it remains in force and effect by virtue
of the preclearance even when there is a subsequent
determination of unconstitutionality?
MS. KARLAN: I think the answer to that
question, candidly, is yes, and the State can cure that
quite quickly. But let me explain it with a
hypothetical that might make this clearer, which is:
Suppose you had a State in which people were voting in
an election, and then the State supreme court held that
that part of the county had never been properly annexed.
The State would be required to continue letting those
people vote in the election unless and until it received
preclearance from the Department of Justice. That's
what Perkins against Matthews and City of Lockhart
require.
So the State has to, once it adopts a
practice, continue using that practice unless and until
it receives preclearance for a new practice or -- and
this is somewhat --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure that in those
cases you had what you had here, which was a
declaration, let's assume, of invalidity ab initio.
Let me give you this hypothetical. A county
council goes to the board of commissioners or the board
of supervisors of the local county or legislative branch
and says: The legislature has just adjourned; it passed
a lot of laws, and one of the laws it passed is that
that you now have to set the qualifications locally for
certain officials, so we have to act on this right away.
They pass the legislation. Three weeks go
by. The county council says: You know, I made a
mistake; that law was never passed; it was never signed
by the governor. What rule? What result?
MS. KARLAN: Well, in your hypothetical
there would be no problem at all, and this goes back to
Justice Souter's hypothetical that he asked Mr. Newsom,
which is: That law hasn't been precleared. Therefore,
it's never in force or effect as a baseline.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose it had been
precleared?
MS. KARLAN: Then it would be Perkins
against Matthews.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, is it? Because -- I
mean, what they're saying is let's use a little common
sense here. And you look at Fordice and there it was an
instance where it just didn't take effect at all as a
practical matter.
And then we cited those two cases you're
talking about, but I can't tell from the Fordice opinion
-- there was a ward system that was in fact in force or
effect. But I don't know how long that ward system was
in effect. It might have been for a long time, and
people might have taken action under it.
And the same thing is true in City of
Lockhart. I can't tell. You may know. But my point is
they are saying: Here we have a middle case, and what
we want is to use enough sense to say, look, it wasn't
really in effect. People challenged it the minute they
could. They -- everybody knew it was unconstitutional,
or a lot of people believed it. And the Governor then
did something to make up for it.
If you're going to say that that little bit
counts as putting it in force and effect, you know what
we're going to have? We're going to have every
municipality all over the country that doesn't always
know what the rules are, and they pass something, and
people challenge it immediately, it's obviously wrong,
and they're stuck with it as a matter of Federal law.
That's going to be a mess.
They're saying something like that, so I'd
like to hear your response.
MS. KARLAN: Well, there are two factual
points in response to your question, Justice Breyer.
The first is, with respect to Perkins against Matthews,
the Mississippi statute that required the use of
at-large rather than district elections was passed in
1962 and used precisely once before the preclearance, so
it was on all fours with this case. It was a three-year
lag between the unconstitutionality of the City of
Canton's practice and the preclearance. So if we were
to ask what does our case look most like that this Court
has already decided, it would be Perkins.
The second point which I want to direct the
Court to is we are not actually talking in this case --
and this goes as well to the Court's judicial function
-- about just Act 85-237. We are also talking in this
case about Act 2004-215, which was the attempt by the
Alabama Legislature to revise the constitutionality of
Act 85-237. Because the central problem in this case
was a provision of the Alabama Constitution, Section
105, that said you couldn't pass local legislation
unless the act -- unless the general act made that very
clear.
So in 2004 the Alabama legislature thought
it had solved the entire problem here by amending the
section of chapter 11 of the Alabama election law to say
unless a local law provides otherwise you can use
gubernatorial appointment. That law was intended to
revive Act 85-237. We know this because, among other
things, our clients were the sponsors of the act, among
the sponsors of the act.
Now, the Alabama legislature --
JUSTICE ALITO: If I could just ask you, in
making that argument, aren't you asking us to say that
the purpose of this act -- that the intent of the
Alabama legislature in passing that act is different
from the intent as determined by the Alabama Supreme
Court?
MS. KARLAN: Yes, but if I can explain why I
think this is important in a sense. It's because the
claim of the State is that this is a case about
fundamental constitutional provisions of Alabama law,
but in fact in its current guise, which is whether the
2004 Act revived the 1985 Act, this is purely a matter
of statutory construction and what the Alabama Supreme
Court said is: We don't think the legislature meant to
make this law retroactive; we think they meant to make
it only prospective. But that's not the same thing as
talking about fundamental Marbury against Madison
judicial review of the kind that the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's a review of a lower
court by a higher court. That's what higher courts do.
They review for correctness, and the Alabama Supreme
Court said the circuit court got it wrong. It
misconstrued the law, and we are correcting that. And
that's -- that's correct.
MS. KARLAN: That is correct, Justice
Ginsburg, which leads to the second pair of cases that
we think this Court has already decided that provide you
absolutely clear guidance as to why preclearance was
required here. And that's this Court's decision in
Hathorn against Lovorn and this Court's decision in
Branch against Smith.
In both of those cases as well, you had the
question, quite acutely in Hathorn against Lovorn, of
whether or not the chancery court in Mississippi, which
is a trial-level court, got the law right or wrong on
whether elections should be conducted in a particular
way in Warren County. The Mississippi Supreme Court
said they got it wrong.
But this Court said that decision and the
implementation require preclearance because the presence
of a court decree doesn't exempt a contested change from
section 5.
So in this case, had Governor Riley decided
completely by himself that he, having taken an oath to
support the Alabama constitution, could not in good
conscience let a special election go forward here, it
would be no different from having the Alabama Supreme
Court decide that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What does the Alabama
Supreme Court preclear? Where it was redistricting and
it had a redistricting plan, I can see it would send
over to the attorney general the new redistricting plan.
What -- what do the justices of the Alabama Supreme
Court have to come before the attorney general to get
his benediction upon?
MS. KARLAN: They have to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do they submit their
opinion and say, "Mr. Attorney General, please approve
our opinion"?
MS. KARLAN: No. No, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. What?
MS. KARLAN: They do not have to come before
this court at all. The chief election administrators of
Alabama or, in this case, the governor must come before
the court before he issues a certificate of office.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Before the attorney
general, you're talking about?
MS. KARLAN: He doesn't even have to come
before the attorney general. If you look at the
statutes, he could have come to the United States
District Court for the District of Columbia and gotten a
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no. First of all,
you're trying to get -- the quick way is to get it from
the attorney general.
MS. KARLAN: Well, the attorney general
found that this was a retrogressive change.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand. What was
supposed -- what should have been submitted to the
attorney general? What is the Alabama Supreme Court's
--
MS. KARLAN: Exactly what was submitted
after the Federal court did, which is the -- the
decision to appoint rather than to elect someone to
District 1 of the Mobile County Commission. The Alabama
Supreme Court didn't have to submit anything, and the
Federal court could not have been clearer in this case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Federal court told
the Alabama --
MS. KARLAN: No, it told --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It told Alabama. I
thought -- I thought that one of the reasons was
adjudication wasn't complete when the district court
made its first ruling, so the district court said, now,
go off and get those two Alabama Supreme Court decisions
precleared.
MS. KARLAN: No, Your Honor. That's not
what they said.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What did they say?
MS. KARLAN: If you turn to the August 18th
final judgment, which is on page 9a over to page 10a of
the jurisdictional statement, they said judgment is
entered in our favor -- that was the declaratory
judgment -- and then said the State of Alabama has 90
days to obtain preclearance.
The State was free to come to the DDC and
seek judicial preclearance if they wanted. The State
was free, as Justice Scalia suggested, to try and use
the quick way.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the State's position
was it shouldn't have to preclear a decision of the
State's highest court --
MS. KARLAN: But it -- it --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- saying that the State
lower court got it wrong.
MS. KARLAN: Justice Ginsburg, this does not
say the State has to preclear the decision of the
Alabama Supreme Court. It simply says -- and if you
look at page 8a, which is the end of the district
court's opinion -- you know, it's enjoining enforcement
of those decisions; it's not enjoining those decisions.
You don't have to spin the Alabama Supreme Court here.
But they literally sued only the governor in this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why did Alabama have
to preclear anything? On November 1st, 1964, this was
an appointed position. This is not a change from what
was, quote, "in force or effect" on November 1st, 1964.
MS. KARLAN: Well, for one thing, this Court
would have to overrule its decisions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, no, no. Those
decisions are all dicta.
MS. KARLAN: But let me go then straight to
a factual point, which is this is not the same practice
as they were using on November 1st of 1964, because that
practice was a combination of two things. It was
gubernatorial appointment under Alabama Section 11-3-6,
and it was gubernatorial appointment in the context of
at-large elections, but --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So something else
changed --
MS. KARLAN: No, the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- whether they are
membership elections or at-large elections.
MS. KARLAN: It's a huge difference, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The argument you
made in your brief was that this was already decided in
Reno versus Bossier Parish. I didn't see the --
MS. KARLAN: No, we didn't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is the argument that
this was not, in fact, a change in your brief?
MS. KARLAN: We didn't see that until their
reply brief, and we didn't think we needed to file a
surreply brief. This Court doesn't allow them.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. They had the
argument -- you at least thought they did --
MS. KARLAN: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You quote in your
brief Reno versus Bossier Parish and one other case.
I'm thinking of one other.
MS. KARLAN: I think you're probably
thinking about Young against Fordice, itself.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. And you raised
the argument -- you criticized them for raising this
argument; that this wasn't any different; but you did
not say that it wasn't any different.
MS. KARLAN: Well, their claim there was
that -- not that this wasn't any different, but part of
our explanation is that, in context, we think there is a
difference between what was going on in 1964.
They actually, I think, want to go back to
the 1977 to 1985 practice, which is the post -- the
post-election practice in Alabama once Brown against
Moore had been decided.
Now, the other thing is I will say that the
Department of Justice regulations on this, which are
quite clear, have been in effect since 1987. And in the
2006 -- in the 2006 re-enactment of the Voting Rights
Act, if you look at the House report, they talk about
Young against Fordice there. And they say
"Mississippi's attempt to revive and to resuscitate" --
and those are the House's words, "to revive or
resuscitate" -- the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think you're quite
right on the DOJ regulations and the House report, but I
just don't see how that squares with the statutory
language.
MS. KARLAN: Well, Your Honor, if I could
just make an observation about section 5 more generally
in Allen, and I'll start here. In Allen, itself, this
Court recognized that the text of section 5 doesn't
provide for private rights of action, and yet it found
them.
It recognized that the text of section 14 of
the Voting Rights Act suggests that the only place that
can be -- that the only place that can litigate section
5 --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So because we've
ignored the text in other areas, we should just forget
about it here?
MS. KARLAN: No, because that's -- that's
the -- those sets of decisions by this Court have been
ratified by Congress and have been the longstanding
practice under section 5. You should continue that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought that --
they ratified -- these cases were ratified by Congress,
but Congress did not change the language in the statute.
MS. KARLAN: Because it thought that the
purpose of section 5 -- if I could spend just one
sentence on this -- the purpose of section 5's November
1st language was to prevent a sort of game of
Whac-A-Mole in which the States would keep changing the
practice. And the idea of that freeze was to hold it in
place so that it could be challenged as a constitutional
matter before the State switched again. It wasn't to
create a safe harbor against attacks on the November 1st
practice.
Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms.
Karlan.
Mr. Shanmugan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE APPELLEES
MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
As this Court has repeatedly recognized,
section 5 of the Voting Rights Act requires a cover
jurisdiction to seek preclearance whenever it seeks to
administer any change in its voting practices. And
there is no basis in either text or policy for carving
out an exception for all or some changes precipitated by
State-court decisions. The judgment of the district
court should, therefore, be affirmed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have any problem
with the republican form of government provision of the
Constitution?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Absolutely not.
JUSTICE SCALIA: As I understand what's
going on here, the -- the legislative process of the
people of Alabama, whereby something is invalid as a
law, suddenly becomes a law because the Federal attorney
general has given it preclearance. The people have
never voted for that properly under their Constitution.
Yet, it becomes law in Alabama. And that's a republican
form of government?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I don't think, with
respect, Justice Scalia, that that's actually happened
here. What happened in this case was that the practice
of special elections actually went into effect while the
litigation was ongoing.
The Alabama Supreme Court then held that the
statute adopting that practice was invalid as a matter
of State law, to be sure, and, therefore, was void ab
initio as a matter of State law.
As a result of that decision, the remedy in
some sense was to revert to the practice of
gubernatorial appointments. And what happened then was
that it was then incumbent on the attorney general under
section 5, the Alabama attorney general, to seek
preclearance of that practice. And the Federal attorney
general made the determination that it would be
retrogressive to go back to that practice.
JUSTICE SCALIA: From an Alabama law that
had never been adopted by the people of Alabama?
MR. SHANMUGAM: It had been adopted by the
people of Alabama.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not validated, so --
MR. SHANMUGAM: It was invalid, to be sure,
as a matter of State law. And then -- and then what
happens at that point is that the Alabama attorney
general is in very much the same position as he would be
if the Federal attorney general had held that some
statutory provision that had been enacted by the Alabama
legislature was improperly retrogressive. He would be
faced with a choice: He could either proceed under a
practice that was invalid under State law, or the State
could pass a new law providing a --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That all depends on there
having been a change. What there was was gubernatorial
appointment. Then the legislature passes a law.
Suppose that the circuit court had said, sorry,
legislature, you got it wrong, general prevails, you
can't do it this way, the law is invalid. Suppose the
circuit court had said that. Then there would not have
been an election, right.
MR. SHANMUGAM: That's exactly right, and
under our view there would not have been a change,
because it was the fact that there was a special
election that was critical.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So there becomes -- there
becomes a change only because the circuit court has made
the mistake about what the State law is. That's very
odd.
MR. SHANMUGAM: There becomes a change,
Justice Ginsburg, because the practice of special
elections actually went into effect by virtue, at a
minimum of the fact that an election was held. And to
be sure --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the district
court -- circuit court I guess it is in Alabama. This
action is filed before the election and the circuit
court says: You may have a successful claim here, but
I'm not going to disrupt the election, there isn't time;
so this election can go forward and during that period
I'll be considering the law. We do that all the time,
or three-judge district courts do, saying we're going to
look at this question, but we don't have time to stop
the election so it's going to go forward. In that case,
would that lead to the same result?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, with respect,
Mr. Chief Justice, I think what a State court might do
in that circumstance would be to enter a stay until it
could adjudicate the validity --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, sure, but not
always. You know, if it's a week before the election or
something, even if they think it's a serious claim, they
sometimes say: We're going to allow the election to go
forward because we're going to look at this and perhaps
the State Supreme Court has to look at it, and we don't
want to hold up the election.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, it is certainly the
implication of our position that if the law actually
goes into effect and an election is held and if
preclearance has already been granted for, in some
sense, the contrary position, then, yes, if the State
Supreme Court or the State trial court subsequently
gives State law a different interpretation, then that
change is going to require preclearance.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's not just an
implication. That's your whole theory.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, it is our theory as to
what the "in force or effect" requirement means. And we
believe that that follows from this Court's decision in
Young versus Fordice, which sets out the parameters for
determining --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, Young versus Fordice,
that's Young versus -- I mean, if it never went into
force and effect, of course we don't reach questions
like republican form of government or 1964 safe harbors
and so forth. And so I think it's an important matter.
And as I read Fordice, we have over here an instance
where nothing happened. You know, some people
registered and then immediately they were told the
registration was no good. So it wasn't in force and
effect.
When I looked at Perkins v. Matthews, that
was not a case where the law was challenged immediately.
Rather, what Justice Brennan said is that this has been
in effect from 1962 to 1965 at least, and in 1965 they
had an election under the ward system. So even if it
might have been unconstitutional or it was, it was still
in effect for three years.
In the other case, City of Lockhart, Justice
Powell says this statute has been in effect, we assume,
from 1917 to 1973. That's not exactly a fleeting
matter. So -- so here we have a case where they
challenged it instantly, where it was litigated as fast
as it possibly could be, where in fact, as Justice
Ginsburg just said, a different decision of the circuit
court would have led to the opposite of it never would
have even had it. So what harm does it do to the
enforcement of the civil rights laws of the United
States if the holding of this Court were, well, under
these circumstances, where challenged immediately, et
cetera, it never took force and effect?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Breyer, the harm is
that there would be actual retrogression. And I think
that there are two critical and distinct legal issues
that this Court needs to address. The first is whether
this practice was in effect for long enough for it to
have been in force or effect. The governing precedent
on that issue is Young versus Fordice.
And we believe that there is more here.
There is not simply the partial implementation of voter
registration procedures for a very brief period of time,
a matter of weeks. An election was actually held and if
that is not sufficient to satisfy the "in force or
effect" requirement, it's hard to see what would be.
The second question is whether a practice
can be said to be in force or effect when it was void ab
initio as a matter of State law. And we do respectfully
submit that the City of Lockhart and Perkins answer that
question because in both of those case the Court held
that the relevant question was whether the practice was
actually in effect.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you talk
about force and effect. Of course, the statute says
"force or effect on November 1st, 1964." Do you have
anything to add to Ms. Karlan's response on my quaint
fixation on the language of the statute?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, it isn't quaint at
all. I would say that I do think that as a textual
matter one could perhaps make the argument that where a
covered jurisdiction changes its voting practice after
the statutory coverage date and then enacts basically a
new version of the pre-existing practice, that the new
practice could as a formal matter be said to be a new
practice.
But I want to make two additional points.
The first is that the question of whether the statute
covers reversion to coverage date practices is really
not properly before the Court. Appellant seemingly did
not raise it before the district court and it is not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that can't tie
our hands in properly interpreting the statute.
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, it's not within the
scope of the question presented, either. The question
presented focuses solely on the question of whether
changes precipitated by State court decisions require
preclearance. And that's a question that this Court has
answered twice in Hathorn and Branch.
The only other thing that I would say is
that it has been not only the consistent interpretation
of the attorney general, but also the consistent
interpretation as far as we are aware of the lower
court, that the statute does reach reversions to
preexisting practices as well.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't see how --
regardless of how consistent the interpretation is, how
can you read "November 1st, 1964," to mean anything
other than that date?
MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I do think that a
textual argument could be made, Mr. Chief Justice, that
the practice that was in effect as of the coverage date
in some sense ceases to exist when the jurisdiction
adopts an intervening distinct practice. And certainly
there is enough ambiguity, I believe, to get us into the
realm of deference, and this Court has repeatedly
recognized that the attorney general's interpretations
of section 5 are entitled to substantial deference.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Shanmugan, what does
the attorney general do when he gets -- I mean, does he
just preclear any old thing that somebody shoves under
his nose? Does he look to see whether there is
litigation pending on it? Was this litigation pending
when it was --
MR. SHANMUGAM: I think this bears --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the plan was
submitted --
MR. SHANMUGAM: This bears on a critical
point, Justice Scalia. And this Court has a line of
cases in the section 5 area that says that it is really
incumbent on covered jurisdictions when they seek
preclearance clearly to identify the relevant change in
their voting practices when they come to the attorney
general for preclearance. And when the 1985 act was
submitted for preclearance, there was nary a word in the
Alabama attorney general's submission that there was any
potential difficulty with the statute under State law.
And so, the attorney general precluded on
the understandable understanding that the statute simply
affected a shift to special elections. And I do think
that the great price of Appellant's interpretation is if
the court were to adopt it, it would suddenly shift the
burden to the Federal attorney general or the D.C.
District Court to when they receive a preclearance
submission, essentially assess the meaning and validity
of any State statute, lest the State statute be
construed differently by a State court, and thus, lock
in the preclearance court or attorney general. And we
believe that that problem along with this Court's
decision in Branch and Hawthorne support our
interpretation.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Newsom, four minutes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Newsom, I hate to
intrude on your rebuttal time, but I would like to ask
you this question. Supposing a State after 1964 and
before 2000 made 35 different changes of all improved
voting rights, could they always go back to the practice
in effect of 1964 and not have to preclear?
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN C. NEWSOM
ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT
MR. NEWSOM: Your Honor, if we are talking
about a legislative or administrative change, the answer
may well be no under this Court's dicta.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It could be any kind of
change, legislative, administrative, judicial, could
they always go back to 1964 and have a safe harbor?
MR. NEWSOM: I think that, Your Honor, if
you're going to treat all forms of changes together,
then they may well be able to. Although I would say
this, that that will very rarely, if ever, be the case.
This is sort of the odd ball case in which the reversion
happens to be --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand. I'm just
trying to understand how much teeth there is in the 1964
date. Is it safe harbor or isn't it?
MR. NEWSOM: Well, I think the explanation
for 19 -- for November 1, 1964 is section 5 was
implemented as a five-year stopgap measure. It's now
been extended through 2031 with no amendment of the
language. So it might have made some sense as a hard
requirement in 1964. It makes much less practical
sense, I recognize, today. But the language is what the
language is I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about
Ms. Karlan's response that this is not the same practice
but it's different because the underlying method of
election has been changed.
MR. NEWSOM: With respect, Your Honor, I
think the plaqueities is gubernatorial appointment. It
doesn't strike me that the underlying method of how the
election might have operated if the rule were election
should matter, the rule was gubernatorial appointment.
The rule is by virtue of these decisions gubernatorial
appointment.
If I may, just a couple of housekeeping
items.
Justice Ginsburg, the question of what DOJ
was asked to preclear here is crystal clear from the
district court's opinion. On August 18, 2006, this
three-judge court held that two Alabama Supreme Court
decisions Stokes v. Noonan and Riley v. Kennedy must be
precleared before they can be -- so the notion that the
State was not asked to preclear judicial decisions is
simply incorrect.
The second thing I'd like to mention just
briefly is that the Federalism exacerbation here exists
in a very real way for this reason. The entire
legislative and litigation history of section 5 has been
about legislative and administrative change. Even with
respect to those sorts of changes, this Court has said
most recently and most forcefully in Presley that that
application of section 5 even there works an
extraordinary change of the traditional course of
relations between the states and the Federal Government.
So the -- to this point to be sure the Court has been
willing to accept that extraordinary departure. The
question in this case, however, is whether this
extraordinary departure ought to become this
extraordinary departure to account for this new
category, this new universe of changes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why as a matter of
Federalism is it more extraordinary to review a court
determination than the determination of a popularly
elected legislature?
MR. NEWSOM: Well, Your Honor, there are two
pieces of this, really. That's more extraordinary
simply in a quantitative sense. We are talking about a
lot more changes, so in sheer numbers we have got an
exacerbation.
But it's also in a qualitative sense the
sense that we are living in a post Marbury, post Cooper
versus Aaron, post Bernie world in which State courts
just like Federal courts are tasked with finally
deciding what State law means. And so, there is a very
real difference, I think, in upsetting the considered
judgment of a State court with respect to what State
court -- with respect to what State law means than there
is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But they are not saying
State law is different from what it means. They are
saying that you cannot put a change in effect until you
get it precleared.
MR. NEWSOM: Right, Your Honor. But with
respect I think that that doesn't do justice to the
functional reality of what's going on here. In 1988 the
Alabama Supreme Court says, may I, says in Stokes versus
Noonan that 85-237 is and always was unconstitutional.
We have an issue of doctrine that's simply part of
Alabama law and, again, I don't think anybody here
seriously disputes that 85-237 was unconstitutional.
And 20 years later DOJ steps in and refuses
to bless that determination, and to be sure, is not
meddling around in the intricacies of state law but the
functional equivalent is the same. They set that
judgment aside, and notwithstanding the Stokes court
invalidation of that, DOJ says very clearly in its
objection letters that 85-237, despite its invalidation,
remains in full force and effect.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:02 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
49:1 14:23 23:24 allow 6:21 13:3 43:22 attempt 38:6
26:2 57:24 29:11 44:25 appointing 46:2
61:24 adopt 57:2 amendment 38:17 44:7,8 attorney 14:2
48:10 adopting 48:25 amicus 1:22 2:8 49:5 42:1 48:14
21:15 21:22 28:25 30:22 44:9,14
29:15 agreed 3:17 34:23 54:5 areas 46:20 59:11
31:15,19 ahead 13:8 57:24 argue 4:13 authority 7:22
35:23 air 29:20 answered 55:9 21:11 20:18,23
AL 1:7 anybody 5:12 arguing 20:23 aware 9:8 17:23
Ala 1:16 61:11 33:9 55:13
39:8,8 Alabama 1:4 3:4 anyway 5:13 argument 1:13
6:11 12:5 20:5 2:2,10 3:4,7,25 B
46:16
56:19 13:20 14:4 appeal 3:11,15 6:8 18:21 23:3 back 15:12
30:2 29:5,6,9,15,16 APPEARAN... 33:12 38:23 32:24,25 36:4
46:13 29:21,25 30:5 1:15 44:17,21 45:2 45:17 49:10
30:9,12,14,16 appears 27:19 45:10,11 47:18 57:19 58:3
40:16,18,20,24 1:23 2:6,9 8:4 asked 29:3 5:12 24:1,4
44:7 45:19 appendix 27:18 38:23 basically 54:18
49:7,11,12,14 application Assistant 1:20 bat 9:16
56:21 59:12 apply 14:13 34:6 13:17 17:25 becoming 28:18
2:4,6,8,12 brought 13:14 category 60:7 Chastang 27:1 cleared 11:6,7
27:11 14:20 15:14 cause 19:19 29:19 clearer 35:1
57:22 20:12 21:24 20:19 chief 3:3,9 4:12 42:8
55:25 34:2 central 38:8 23:17 24:3 23:14,15 56:17
Brown 45:19 cert 20:15 25:16 27:7,12 61:18
23:13 24:9 4:23 7:13 8:17 44:21 45:1,4,9 cloud 4:22
C 1:16 2:1,3,11 cetera 53:13 54:9 55:2,16 44:6
45:5 carving 48:3 challenging 26:10 30:9,18 33:20
6:4,17,24,24 chancery 40:5 50:4,7,14,23 12:9
40:2 8:24 9:20,23 11:12 18:18,19 circumstance 42:6
57:10 10:21 11:9,16 19:9,10,14,19 51:10 commissioners
17:11 29:13,22,23 43:22 44:22 citing 24:10 28:5 complete 42:14
18:3 30:9 36:25 47:3 48:2 50:2 City 28:6 31:25 completely
19:1,6 37:22,25 38:3 50:10,14,17 35:8 36:23 40:15
20:3,17 38:6,8 39:5 52:1 56:17 37:23 53:1 compliant 25:14
24:17 40:14 41:10 57:24 58:2 54:5 conceivable
37:17 42:8 43:19 59:21,25 61:3 civil 22:13 53:10 13:15
53:14 45:5 48:21 changed 44:11 claim 39:5 45:13 conceivably
21:12 53:1,4 54:6 changes 4:8 7:25 claiming 30:21 concerned 22:20
29:6 58:7,8 60:4 14:20 21:14,18 clause 25:23 concerning 3:13
44:18,22 61:22,23 24:4,5 25:15 clear 10:25 3:20
45:5 cases 8:14 9:2 26:2 48:4 14:18 17:9 conduct 6:18
10:2,11 13:2 54:17 55:7 24:12,14 31:18 22:11
correctness 30:9,13,13,14 create 47:12 deep 22:15
25:24 39:17 30:18,21 31:9 critical 50:12 defend 22:2
47:2,3 corrects 30:15 31:15 34:3 53:16 56:13 defendant's
21:4 38:3 39:2,10 crystal 59:10 deference 56:1,3
counsel 22:22 39:23 40:5,6,8 curiae 1:22 2:9 deny 8:18
61:21 40:25 41:9,11 current 39:7 Department
country 37:9 42:9,14,15,16 D 15:5 34:3 35:7
38:9 37:7 43:24 44:25 Danforth 10:25 Department's
48:9,16 county 35:4,17 46:12,23 47:23 22:15 14:7
32:13,14 42:6 50:4,7,14,23 55:19,22 58:12 60:5,6
39:6 couple 59:7 50:23,25 51:9 days 43:1 depends 50:1
course 12:22 51:17,24,24 DDC 43:2 designed 22:7
28:11 34:13 52:11 54:6,25 55:1,7 decide 25:9,12 despicable 22:1
54:10 59:25 55:8,14 56:1 40:19 despite 4:3
court 1:1,13 57:8 59:12,12 39:23 40:14 detail 3:14
32:4 7:1,9,17,18,20 courts 5:17 6:17 11:19 19:16,20 61:14
10:25 11:1 22:17 39:16 42:5 43:7,13 52:8
12:16,25 13:20 court's 3:21,25 57:10 dicta 23:25 44:2
19:19,22 20:7 28:13 38:4 25:25 42:16 6:10 17:4,18
8:5 13:9 22:5 23:22,24 52:6 57:9,25 48:5 55:7 59:5 different 6:4
30:7 24:18,19,21 59:11 59:13,15 8:22 11:20
39:20 25:3,3,6,7,12 cover 47:25 declaration 13:5 17:21 19:16
25:13,25 26:7 coverage 54:18 35:16 22:25 23:4,8
29:14,22,25 covers 54:24 decree 40:12 45:11,12,14
53:7 earliest 6:11,22 51:2,6,13,15 10:16 18:9 19:13
58:23 13:14 51:18,21 52:23 exacerbation 24:18 25:2
effect 4:6,13 5:5 53:24 58:24 59:18 60:16 26:18 27:24
57:7 15:22 16:22 elections 37:20 50:9 53:3 39:7 44:22
38:2 23:1,4,9 25:18 50:19 56:25 examples 21:24 factual 15:24
32:4,21 33:13 enacted 14:14 Excuse 31:2 fair 6:5
37:2,7 43:23 21:13 exempt 40:12 favor 30:1 42:24
52:5,11,18,22 43:16 53:10 exercises 11:1 14:11,19,19
54:3,8,10,11 enjoining 25:25 19:15 22:17 49:8,20 57:3
61:3,20 enter 51:10 exist 55:23 federalism 5:7
9:1,2 30:4 effectively 7:19 entire 38:14 existing 25:25 21:4 59:18
41:17,17 either 7:2 13:9 59:19 34:13 60:9
29:19 48:3 entirely 13:24 exists 5:9 59:18 feds 9:17
48:5 49:23 55:5 27:25 expect 13:7 Fifteenth 20:9
51:4 elect 42:5 entitled 56:3 explain 28:9 file 44:24
57:4 elected 16:24 equivalent 33:23 34:25 filed 28:22 29:5
17:16 26:12 61:16 39:3 50:24
15:14,15,18,19 essentially 21:9 extent 24:12 12:25 21:22
29:9,15,18,24 everybody 37:3 five 20:20 26:16
35:3,6 evidence 5:4 F five-year 58:15
four-to-one gives 51:25 Gregory 21:10 hold 8:1 18:15
freeze 47:9 35:24 40:17 grounds 25:20 53:11
33:17 function 38:4 51:2,6,15 49:5 50:2 59:1 Honor 4:15,16
functionally 24:8 28:2 29:2 16:9,15 50:23 10:13,24 11:24
15:21 fundamental 38:4 51:21 guise 39:7 15:7 16:12
17:2 39:6,13 going 14:15 16:8 17:4,19 18:23
22:25 futility 15:10 19:23 20:3 H 19:12 20:1,6
25:18 future 4:8 23:12 27:19 hand 14:1 23:11,16 24:8
28:1,11 33:14 34:2 hands 55:3 24:23 25:1
34:14,16 G 37:6,8,8,13 happen 26:20 26:24 30:19
36:7,19 G 3:1 45:16 48:12 happened 15:23 31:7,11 42:18
43:23 game 47:7 51:1,4,6,15,16 26:21 48:20,21 44:16 46:9
general 1:21 52:1 58:5 61:7 49:5 52:15 57:23 58:4,25
3:17 14:2 good 19:23 happens 9:5 60:12 61:5
28:10 38:11 25:23 40:16 49:18 58:9 horizon 13:13
40:23,25 41:4 52:17 harbor 47:12 House 45:25
17:5,15 49:6,7,9,19,20 41:17 hard 4:12 54:1 59:7
25:10,20 50:5 55:12 governing 53:19 58:17 House's 46:3
28:8 56:5,19,23 government harm 53:9,14 huge 44:15
45:8 57:3,8 19:3 22:11 hate 57:15 hypothetical
52:7,9,14 generally 46:10 48:8,18 52:12 Hathorn 40:1,4 11:8 13:18
general's 56:2 60:1 55:9 33:18 35:1,17
15:12 18:24 19:4 hear 3:3 37:15 I
21:24 31:1 39:15,22 40:14 41:10 50:20 51:21 III 29:2
51:2,6 42:9,12,20 43:19 53:24 54:6 immediately
43:6,10,12 governor's 59:12 4:10 11:25
53:7 59:9 27:20 30:1 higher 39:16,16 32:9 37:11
6:14,14 intermediate 11:11 19:15 32:24 33:1,7 45:13 46:9,22
17:6,7 30:13 22:5,18 24:4 33:17,19,24 47:4,16
40:11 interpretation 25:8,13 26:9 34:3,16,19 Karlan's 54:12
51:25 55:11,13 34:2 38:4 35:7,14 36:5,8 58:22
interpretations 58:2 59:15 38:22 39:15,21 Kennedy 1:7 3:5
52:3 interpreting June 15:14 41:12,19,24 10:20 13:18
intervening jurisdiction 43:4,6,10,12 25:2 31:20
22:17 intricacies 61:15 20:15 48:1 44:13,17,21 52:2 59:13
52:13 intrude 57:16 54:17 55:23 45:1,4,9,22 KEVIN 1:16 2:3
24:22 48:13,25 3:12,17,20 47:14,15,23 key 7:14
invalidation 22:16 55:2,16,21 13:19 15:3,18
issue 3:21 22:3 5:22,23 6:1,23 58:10,21 59:9 36:20,24 37:7
issues 3:11 7:14 9:11,18,21,25 justices 40:24 43:16 51:13
items 59:8 11:5,15,21 K knowledge 9:7
49:2 28:14 14:5,7,13,24 Karlan 1:18 2:5 lag 37:23
Jones 15:24 15:3,5,9,11,23 27:9,10,12 language 23:23
judge 30:5 18:10 19:1,6 31:11,24 32:11 47:3,7 54:13
25:19 42:22,23 24:3,15,17,24 36:3,10 37:16 10:3,8,21 11:3
24:13 60:23 61:17 27:7,12 28:21 41:8,14,22 11:12,13,17,22
judgments 8:8 28:25 29:3,21 42:3,11,18,21 12:16 14:3
39:1 judicial 5:10 31:1,2,8,20,22 44:3,12,15,20 22:16,19 24:22
20:20 35:16 looking 24:12 means 52:5 26:16
36:13 loser 26:19 60:21,24 61:2 Moore 45:20
level 13:4,9 lot 35:21 37:4 meant 39:10,11 mooted 26:12
22:16 60:15 measure 58:15 municipality
32:2,2 levels 12:11 Lovorn 40:1,4 measuring 4:7 37:9
line 56:14 lower 5:17 39:15 meddling 61:15
lines 25:6 43:11 55:13 members 20:21 N
34:2 literally 43:19 Ludgood 29:17 membership N 2:1,1 3:1
36:1 litigate 46:17 44:14 narrowly 25:10
37:12 litigated 53:5 M mention 59:17 nary 56:20
litigation 4:20 Madison 39:13 mentioned nature 18:5
4:22 6:13 maintain 28:3 22:23 27:15 need 23:21
48:14,14 11:23 12:7,8 making 11:2 Merceria 29:17 25:12
49:1,2 12:14 13:4,5 21:18 23:3 merit 3:16 needed 44:24
14:6 15:5 38:23 merits 3:23 needs 7:21 53:17
51:3 29:10 34:2 man 30:25 mess 37:13 net 17:13
52:20 48:23 56:8,8 map 8:19 method 58:23 never 5:3,23 6:1
56:22 59:20 Marbury 39:13 59:2 12:16,19 15:19
61:2 little 16:1 33:16 60:18 middle 15:5 28:1 31:9 35:4
34:12 36:13 March 1:10 36:25 36:1,1,7 48:16
live 17:9 matter 1:12 midway 27:23 53:8,13
35:24 32:9 52:13 53:4,24 misconstrued 2:3,11 3:6,7,9
Lockhart 28:6 54:4,16,20 39:19 4:15 5:22,25
20:22 36:24 53:1 61:24 Mississippi 8:16 9:7,18
23:23 54:5 mattered 20:19 19:21 37:19 10:12,23 11:15
26:2 locks 32:21,22 Matthews 28:6 40:5,8 11:24 12:4,8
48:12 33:1 31:25 35:8 Mississippi's 12:13,18,21
58:2 long 10:5 36:20 36:11 37:18 46:2 13:11,24 14:7
36:21 53:18 52:19 mistake 26:7 14:16 15:1,7
35:20 46:24 16:8 17:20,21 50:15 17:4,19,24
look 16:6 22:23 33:25 36:13 Mobile 42:6 18:1,4,22 19:5
49:22 31:12 36:14 52:10 55:18 Monday 1:10 19:12 20:1,6
60:11 37:1,25 41:15 56:5 month 10:25 20:14,25 21:21
58:4 ongoing 48:23 part 6:13 7:13 22:12 32:10 post-election
60:12 operate 23:23 35:4 45:14 46:16,17 47:10 45:19
operated 59:3 61:10 plaintiff 21:3 potential 56:22
30:12 participated plan 4:3 17:14 power 8:21 25:8
61:17 29:6 pass 13:22 35:24 56:11 practice 11:1
opportunity 49:25 play 14:23 28:1 34:13
25:21 6:12,22 13:1 passage 28:17 please 3:10 35:11,11,12
44:5 13:15 passed 9:4 30:22 27:13 41:4 37:24 44:4,6
54:11 opposed 13:8 35:20,21 36:1 47:23 45:18,19 46:25
58:14 21:8 37:20 podium 5:13 47:9,13 48:21
27:4 passing 38:25 10:12 11:22 53:18 54:2,7
47:18 pending 56:8,8 15:11,12,16,20 55:22,24 57:19
oust 26:18 48:13,15 49:12 38:2 44:4 56:18
overwhelmingly percent 31:18 60:2 4:21 6:13 10:6
17:17 42:22,22 43:15 permission 3:21 position 8:7 23:6 19:10,20 22:24
29:11 paid 16:3,25 7:21 23:18 24:16 23:5 40:21
17:17 18:16 person 17:12 26:17 27:1 43:7,13,21
PAMELA 1:18 29:11 43:6,22 49:19 59:10,15
37:21 Parish 21:5 place 5:11 7:20 post 45:18 60:18 10:5 12:20
44:19 45:5 11:17,18,20 60:18,19 13:8 28:20
33:5 54:19 12:13 21:15 rarely 58:7 refers 14:22
34:4,21 price 57:1 34:13 ratified 46:24 refused 34:4
37:21 principally pursuant 29:15 47:2,2 refuses 61:13
39:24 21:25 put 15:21 24:16 reach 12:22 regardless 55:17
43:1,3 prior 21:13 61:3 52:11 55:14 register 4:5
49:8 24:21 putting 37:7 read 52:14 14:11,19,19
52:1 private 46:13 p.m 1:14 3:2 55:18 17:13
56:17,19 probably 16:11 61:23 reading 21:20 registered 17:10
57:4,8 45:7 real 17:9 59:19 18:8 52:16
10:10,22 36:4 38:8,14 quaint 54:12,14 reality 13:16 17:11
48:7 57:9 qualifications 61:7 registration 4:3
13:21,23 problems 22:6 35:22 really 7:15 37:2 17:8 18:7
19:25 procedures qualitative 54:24 56:15 52:17 53:23
32:9 53:23 60:17 60:13 regulation 14:11
34:7 proceed 3:22 quantitative realm 56:1 14:21
42:17 13:4 49:23 60:14 reannexation regulations 14:8
61:4 process 4:20 question 3:12,13 15:2 14:16,18 45:22
promulgation 16:19,21 20:17 14:18 16:15 reiterated 29:8
properly 35:4 24:16 25:7 25:23 33:17,19 relations 60:1
proposes 13:19 31:23,24 32:3 19:9 42:13 56:17
20:18 37:17 40:4 57:16,21 remains 34:20
prove 9:22 55:8 57:17 35:6 remedy 29:4
39:23 46:13 52:11 recognized render 8:8 32:15
25:23 38:16 quickly 34:25 56:2 renders 32:12
18:8 provision 25:22 17:18 23:8,15 27:20 repealed 34:5
28:5 38:9 48:8 23:16 29:5,19 redistrict 8:15 repeatedly
provisions 21:8 quote 43:23 45:4 8:24 9:4,13 reply 5:9 23:17
purely 39:8 R 40:23 report 45:25
38:24 47:5,6 raise 55:1 referred 25:22 republican 48:8
53:15 Roberts 3:3 4:12 53:2 54:10 segregationist
33:3 41:23 49:10,22 23:17 24:3 61:18 send 40:22
35:9 reversal 3:24 25:16 27:7 Scalia 8:13 9:25 sense 36:14 37:1
52:1 reverse 29:14 43:20 44:1,10 11:5,16 14:1 39:4 49:4
reversion 54:24 44:13,17,21 14:24 15:3,9 51:23 55:23
37:19 reversions 55:14 46:19 47:1,15 29:21,24 31:2 60:17,18
revert 49:4 50:22 51:12 31:8 32:12,17 sentence 47:6
54:1 10:4,6 11:1 57:13 58:21 40:20 41:3,6,7 16:11
19:15 22:5,18 61:21 41:12,19,24 serious 51:14
39:14,15,17 Roman 6:6 48:20 49:11,15 served 30:25
47:25 revise 38:7 rule 28:10 32:12 Scalia's 31:22 61:16
18:22 revived 39:8 rules 13:19 SCOUTER 33:1 47:22 48:10,19
22:2 re-enactment 37:10 second 3:23 30:6 49:13,16 50:9
27:3 45:24 ruling 7:9 19:21 38:2 39:22 50:17 51:8,19
37:18 Rhodes 29:7 42:15 54:2 59:17 52:4 53:14
51:8 right 5:1 6:3 9:9 section 3:13 4:6 54:14 55:4,20
59:22 9:16,18 12:8 S 4:7 5:7,11 6:8 56:10,13
61:6 12:16,18,20 S 1:18 2:1,5 3:1 6:17 10:14 Shanmugan
15:17 17:1,20 safe 47:12 52:12 22:3,6,9,14,20 sheer 60:15
23:2 24:8,23 25:1,5 satisfy 53:25 28:16 32:4 19:2,13
54:12 40:6 41:7 46:6 saying 9:22 38:9,15 40:13 show 15:20 21:6
50:8,9 61:5 13:20 14:2 44:7 46:10,12 21:8 23:13
32:1 36:2 22:13 32:5 23:6 30:20 47:5,6,25 49:7 side 5:13 7:4
51:7 45:24 46:13,16 32:6,18,20 56:3,15 58:14 signed 36:1
57:19 43:10 51:4 see 13:20 14:2 26:13
26:6 29:25 says 14:10,12 40:22 44:19,23 simplest 4:1
Riley's 3:15 22:24 23:7 55:16 56:7 21:2 22:7 33:3
17:22 ripeness 29:1 28:16 31:14 49:7 56:16 53:22 56:24
39:11 rise 8:19 22:6 33:3 35:20,25 seeks 48:1 59:16 60:14
spectrum 8:23 60:19,21,23,23 56:21 57:5 40:8,18,21,24
26:13 spend 47:5 statement 42:23 42:7 54:5 43:14,18 48:24
spin 43:18 states 1:1,13,22 submitted 12:3 51:17,24 59:12
stalemate 33:13 State-court 48:5 subsequently 60:2 61:14
17:16 standing 15:8 7:19 13:6,10 substantive 3:12 switched 47:11
29:19 18:1 14:14 15:21 successful 50:25 sworn 15:25
56:6 Stanford 1:18 18:18 25:9 suddenly 48:14 system 19:2
state 4:3,9,20,25 48:25 53:2 sufficient 53:25 T
5:24 6:2,2,17 55:3,14 56:22 34:12 43:4 table 30:3
21:2 8:15,17,18,23 statutes 41:16 suggests 46:16 23:18 24:15,25
47:7 9:2,3,13,15,16 statutory 39:9 suit 22:14 26:6 27:4 30:8
10:2,3,6,7,24 46:7 49:21 superstructure 36:15
10:19,21 13:5,7,9 14:14 step 6:21 35:19 talk 45:25 54:9
13:17 14:22 15:4,17 stepped 6:11 support 22:8 talking 6:9
33:7,17 19:10,15 20:20 steps 61:13 40:16 57:10 19:14 27:19
34:16,19 20:21 21:12,19 Stevens 5:18,22 supporting 1:23 36:18 38:3,5
61:1 21:24,25 22:5 5:23 6:1 57:15 2:9 47:21 39:13 41:13
19:7 39:5 42:25 4:1 Supposing temporarily
48:22 43:2,3,10,13 strike 59:2 57:17 4:25
56:25 47:11 49:1,2 striking 11:13 supreme 1:1,13 temporary 4:9
27:2 50:15 51:9,17 stuck 37:12 7:18,20 12:12 tested 11:7
12:1 14:17 54:4 55:7 subject 8:9 10:3 29:7,22,25 24:13 28:15
22:19 56:22 57:6,6,7 14:9 30:14 31:8,15 46:12,15,20
57:17 59:15 submission 6:19 35:3 39:1,9,17 48:3
55:21 threshold 3:12 37:16 42:16 valid 4:7 6:2 Warren 40:8
tie 55:2 54:22 59:12 validated 49:15 1:21 7:21 8:9
61:21 time 7:24 22:12 60:12 validity 13:22 10:8
34:19 36:21 51:1,3,5 version 54:19 17:25 34:6
53:23 57:16 U versus 3:4,25 37:1 42:14
43:24 timely 3:15 33:11 23:25 25:10,20 47:11 52:17
55:10 29:10 unconstitutio... 44:19 45:5 way 4:2 7:2,5,15
59:17 today 20:19 5:12,15 11:2 52:7,9,10 22:19 26:1
38:19 told 42:9,11,12 31:10 37:3 61:8 41:20 43:5
52:16 52:24 61:9,12 view 7:6 50:10 50:6 59:19
traditional 33:10 34:22 violated 28:5 weeks 35:24
8:7,10 22:11 59:25 37:23 violation 32:8 53:24
13:24 treat 58:5 underlying virtually 11:25 went 4:23 5:5
18:5,23 trial 4:24 5:1,8 58:23 59:2 virtue 4:20 30:23 31:4,5,6
21:6,17 6:25 7:1,8,17 understand 9:19 34:20 50:19 31:9 32:2
22:5,13 7:20 9:3 15:17 10:5 41:24 59:5 48:22 50:19
25:19,19 30:13 31:12 48:11 58:10,11 void 24:22 31:15 52:10
27:15 51:24 understandable 31:21 49:1 weren't 27:15
trial-level 40:6 56:24 54:3 we're 19:14,23
33:8 trickier 33:16 understanding vote 35:6 23:5 30:19,21
39:4,10 34:12 56:24 voted 17:12 37:8,8 51:4,15
44:24 true 10:23 12:21 unentitled 29:11 48:16 51:16
36:23 United 1:1,13,22 voter 4:3 53:22 we've 7:13 11:8
48:19 truth 14:16 2:8 28:7 32:1 voters 4:5 17:9 46:19
52:13 16:12 41:16 47:19 voting 17:12 Whac-A-Mole
54:15 try 43:4 53:10 21:13 27:24 47:8
56:10,25 trying 9:23 universe 60:7 32:5 35:2 whatsoever 6:18
59:1 10:13 13:8 unlawful 4:11 45:24 46:16 willing 60:3
61:6,11 15:16 24:9 27:24 47:25 48:2 win 7:10
45:6,8 turn 27:14 31:19 10:1 57:19 won 26:14 29:17
38:13 twice 55:9 urged 3:24 W word 56:20
45:2 two 3:11,23 4:21 use 36:13 37:1 wake 4:24 words 9:15,23
5:19 6:4,6 37:19 38:16 want 3:19 8:6 46:3
30:25 15:15 16:23 38:2 45:17 works 59:24
52:25 17:3,14,17 V 51:18 54:22 world 5:8 23:7
59:12 21:22 23:12 52:19 59:13,13 43:3 worse 19:23
101 27:18 24 1:10 88 16:11
24:17 11 38:15 9
30:10,13 11-3-6 44:7 3 9a 42:22
37:11 114 28:14 3 2:4 90 42:25
40:6,9 14 46:15 35 57:18
50:5 16 31:13
59:11 4
53:3 18:7
18:15 1964 20:19 23:1
5
25:21
52:25 5:11 6:8,17
44:5
10:14 20:10
52:12
55:18
6:9 22:20,23 25:15
58:3
15:20 25:15,22 26:3
31:12,14 32:4
52:22,22
23:25 33:5 34:14
53:3
27:22 1975 19:21 40:13 46:10,12
45:8 46:1 1977 45:18 46:18,25 47:5
47:25 49:7
11:22
56:3,15 58:14
39:8
56:19
47:6
14:8,22
15:13,14
45:23
16:1 61:7 6
60 22:12
1:6 64 22:12 23:9
20:9 22:14
2:02 61:23 8
23:15,22 24:2 20 61:13 8 23:18,21 26:25
25:21 2000 57:18 8a 43:15
42:6 2004 31:19 85 11:25 12:2
38:13 39:8 28:19 30:22
23:1,9 43:21 2004-215 38:6 85-237 5:5,14
44:5 2006 45:24,24 31:15 38:5,8
54:11 59:11 38:18 61:9,12
2006-342 29:15 61:19
1:14 3:2 2008 1:10 85-237's 28:15
42:22 2031 58:16 85-257 11:17
31:18 237 30:22 872 14:19
