IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JAMES BENJAMIN PUCKETT, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-9712
UNITED STATES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 14, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:12 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
LARS R. ISAACSON, ESQ., Lewisville, Tex.; on behalf of
the Petitioner, appointed by this Court.
LISA H. SCHERTLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
LARS R. ISAACSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
LISA H. SCHERTLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 31
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
LARS R. ISAACSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:12 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first today in Case 07-9712, Puckett v. United
States.
Mr. Isaacson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LARS R. ISAACSON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ISAACSON: Mr. Chief Justice, may it
please the Court:
This case is framed by two major facts:
Jimmy Puckett pled guilty and waived his fundamental
right to trial in exchange for a promise by the
government that they agreed he was qualified for a
three-level reduction in his offense level; and the
government of the United States breached this promise.
The teachings of this Court in this
situation are instructive. For a plea to be valid, it
must be voluntary and intelligent.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Isaacson, you said
there were two facts. Aren't there three? Isn't it a
fact that after the plea bargain the defendant in
essence broke his side of the bargain by committing a
crime while he was in jail?
MR. ISAACSON: No, Your Honor. He did not
breach the plea agreement by doing that. He --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I used to teach
contract law and I'll tell you that would have been a
breach of contract. That would have been a breach on
his part.
Now, the government has conceded the breach
of the plea agreement. I don't -- I can't understand
why they did that, but they apparently have conceded it.
Does that mean that we have to ignore it for purposes of
deciding what the -- what the remedy is? Ignore the
reality that there was a breach? I mean, you know,
if the government said, we will ask the court to
sentence at the lower end because of the -- the remorse
that the defendant has shown, and the defendant then
demonstrates that he has no remorse by -- you know,
suppose he comes and stabs the judge -- is the
government really supposed to have to go before the
judge and say, "Your Honor, this man is really
remorseful and you should sentence him at the lower
end"?
It seems to me it's a basic principle of
contract law that a party to a contract cannot take
action which makes it impracticable for the other side
to carry out his part of the bargain, and that's what
your client did. The government couldn't practicably go
in and make that argument when he had demonstrated
himself to be an unremorseful criminal.
MR. ISAACSON: The government in this case
drafted a plea agreement, and most plea agreements --
I've practiced in the Northern District of Texas quite
often, and virtually every plea agreement has a
provision in it that says if the defendant does some
type of criminal activity, thus it will render it void.
This plea agreement did not have that in it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh.
MR. ISAACSON: So it's different than most
plea agreements.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you want to us make the
inference that the impermissible or criminal activity
was permitted by the absence of this specific clause.
You say there is no implied condition, no implied
covenant?
MR. ISAACSON: Well, I'm not -- what we are
saying is the government needs to obey the promise in
the plea agreement. The promise in the plea agreement
is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the questions so far
indicate that one of the promises was an implied promise
that you will keep the terms of the agreement by lawful
behavior. So that just -- what you say just begs the
question.
Now, I recognize the government has conceded
a breach, and we will probably move on from that point.
But, as Justice Scalia indicates, it puts the case in a
very artificial posture, it seems to me.
MR. ISAACSON: It is -- well, it is up to
the judge to determine whether or not the defendant gets
the acceptance points or not. The bargain here was not
that Mr. Puckett would get the points, but that the
government would agree that he was qualified to receive
those points.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And there is nothing
theoretically inconsistent with the government -- you
can feel remorse. I mean, you're not going to do it
again. You going to feel remorse every time you do it,
but that doesn't mean he didn't feel remorse from the
crime he was pleading to.
MR. ISAACSON: Yes, 3E1.1. There is a
number of different factors that go into whether or not
someone gets the acceptance points. It is the judge's
discretion to give those points and there are a number
of different factors that go into it. Certainly the
termination of criminal activity is one 1 of those
factors the court looks at, but it's not the only one.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this judge said --
and he was open in his thinking. He said: "Unheard to
me that I would give acceptance of responsibility credit
to someone that as soon as he gets sent to jail is out
there committing another crime."
MR. ISAACSON: That is what Judge --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The judge did say that.
He said it was unknown to him that judges give
acceptance of responsibility credit to someone who in
the interval between the plea and when he shows up in
court for sentencing commits another crime.
MR. ISAACSON: That is what Judge Sanders
did say.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Your point is not that he
should have gotten the reduction. Your point is that
the government should have made the recommendation.
MR. ISAACSON: Well, the position --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't it? Isn't that your
point?
MR. ISAACSON: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: The agreement called for
them to make a recommendation and they didn't make it.
In fact, they recommended the contrary. And that's your
gripe, right?
MR. ISAACSON: The plea agreement did not
say the government had to get up there and make a
statement at sentencing that he was supposed to get his
points. They just agreed he was entitled to his
acceptance points.
There was two parts of the plea agreement.
The first part that they agreed to was, you know, that
he was entitled to those points; and the second part was
that they would recommend at sentencing that he get the
lower in the guideline range. The first part was not --
did not say they had to get up there and say that. They
chose on their own to get up there and breach the plea
agreement by saying, he's not entitled to those points.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is that in the
record, do you know offhand? Where the plea agreement
is?
MR. ISAACSON: It's page 54a of the Joint
Appendix volume 1, paragraphs 8 and 9.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose Justice
Ginsburg's point is relevant, though, on the question of
prejudice. If the judge gets up there and says, I don't
care what the government says, I am not going to give
anybody a departure when they have committed another
crime, then you haven't been prejudiced by the
government's breach.
MR. ISAACSON: Well -- I believe he has been
prejudiced by the government's breach, because once the
government violates the plea agreement on the first
level, as we know under the prior precedents of this
case, it makes the actual plea agreement void. And
secondly, the Santobello case clearly talks about it is
not important the effect on the sentencing judge
what the -- in Santobello the government breached a plea
agreement and the judge said: It doesn't matter the
government breached the plea agreement; I would have
done the same thing anyway; it makes no different. This
Court said specifically that's not relevant.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the judge would have
known about what happened anyway from -- from the
presentence investigation, wouldn't he?
MR. ISAACSON: Correct.
I guess the point I am trying to make is the
agreement here was not that Judge Sanders would give him
acceptance points. The fact is the government made the
position -- and I should point out that Mr. Puckett, he
gave up all his rights just for this slim reed of hope.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he could have, if he
felt that way -- I mean, there they were in the
courtroom; all of them knew about the plea agreement
because there had been the Rule 11 colloquy when it was
taken, right?
MR. ISAACSON: I'm sorry, ma'am. I didn't
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When the plea was
taken --
MR. ISAACSON: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- it was the same judge,
wasn't it?
MR. ISAACSON: Yes, Judge Sanders.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so they were all
there and the defendant was asked all these questions,
and the government-- and the judge knew about the
government's side of the plea bargain.
MR. ISAACSON: Right, yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it was not a secret to
anyone that the government said it would ask for the
extra acceptance of responsibility credit. And yet the
defendant and his lawyer stand there and they don't say
a word: Wait a minute, judge. They didn't object at --
there was no motion to withdraw the plea, was there?
MR. ISAACSON: Mr. Puckett had made a motion
prior to the sentencing to withdraw his plea on his own.
He basically pro se had done that. But not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But --
MR. ISAACSON: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Before the judge there
was no plea to withdraw the plea.
MR. ISAACSON: During the sentencing, no,
there was not.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so that's why we are
-- if he had asked to withdraw the plea, then we'd have
a different case. But he didn't, so we are here on
plain-error review.
MR. ISAACSON: Our point is that we suggest
plain error shouldn't be applied to this case. This
court in Santobello said 35 years ago when the
government breaches a plea agreement it can never stand.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Santobello was a case
where there was a timely objection.
MR. ISAACSON: That is correct, but the
principles of whether or not when the government
breaches a plea agreement that renders the underlying
conviction void raises it to a different level.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why should that be the case?
I know plea agreements are not strictly governed by
contract law, but there is an analogy and your whole
argument seems to be that the government's breach
rendered the plea agreement void. But why would that
so? There was a plea agreement, voluntarily entered
into, and then there was a breach. So, why shouldn't
the issue be what is the remedy for the breach? And why
shouldn't it be governed by the plain-error rule like
most errors that occur at trial?
MR. ISAACSON: I would suggest it goes to
the very heart of whether or not he actually pled.
Justice Ginsburg's raised a great point about what Judge
Sanders did in this case. He was long involved. The
promises in the plea agreement were talked about. Mr.
Puckett had every right to rely upon those promises when
he foreclosed his right to jury trial, his right to
present witnesses on his own behalf. This is a
solemn --
JUSTICE ALITO: But you can say that in
every case in which parties enter into a contract and
later there is a breach. The fact that one of the
parties later breaches doesn't mean that there never was
a contract. There was an agreement that he voluntarily
entered into at that time. And then there was a --
subsequently there was a breach, but that doesn't mean
that he involuntarily -- he did not voluntarily enter
into the agreement, does it?
MR. ISAACSON: I would suggest this Court's
precedent is that it has to be a knowing waiver of his
rights, that promises that are unfulfilled or
unfulfillable render the plea itself void. The
constitutional due process overtones or overpinnings of
a plea agreement as opposed to a normal contract makes
this different.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What relief are you
seeking now? You didn't -- you didn't ask to withdraw
the plea when you were before the sentencing judge.
MR. ISAACSON: We request -- what relief do
I want?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Right.
MR. ISAACSON: Mr. Puckett would like the
plea agreement to be set aside and be allowed to take
this case to trial.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Which would expose him to
a considerably greater penalty.
MR. ISAACSON: Potentially, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why wouldn't it suffice to
give your client everything that he was entitled to if
the case were remanded to a different judge and the
government were required to go before that judge and
make the commitment that it undertook in the plea
agreement?
MR. ISAACSON: We believe --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why wouldn't that be a
perfectly satisfactory remedy?
MR. ISAACSON: We believe that the action of
the government, again, rendered the plea agreement
itself void, without value, and he would -- Mr.
Puckett --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you have to say that.
But let's assume I don't agree with that. Let's assume
I agree with Justice Alito that his entry into it was
voluntary and all that's happened is that one of the
commitments on the part of one of the parties has not
been complied with. Why isn't it an adequate remedy for
that problem to send it back to a new judge and have the
government come before that judge and make the same
commitment it was supposed to under the agreement?
MR. ISAACSON: Certainly that is a remedy
some circuits have used. Why that is not effective, we
believe the defendant should have the right to be able
to choose. When it reaches this level, the plea
agreement is void.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask essentially two
questions. You mentioned the fact that this is not --
this is an unusual agreement, and that some of the
provisions were negotiated and the record shows they
were -- they were deliberately undertaken. It seems to
me that this was probably a scrivener's error. The
normal -- most plea agreements would include a provision
that if the defendant engaged in unlawful conduct, all
bets are off. And my hunch was that somebody just
forgot to put the boilerplate language in the agreement.
Is that fair to say? I can't imagine the government
negotiating an agreement that doesn't include that
clause.
MR. ISAACSON: I certainly can't put myself
on the sides back then. I think it's fair to say it's
unusual. The government in its breach -- sorry -- in
its brief indicated it could have included it in there.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It did include it in the
motion, didn't they?
MR. ISAACSON: It was --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wasn't there a motion --
MR. ISAACSON: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- for credit for
acceptance of responsibility, and had as a condition
that the defendant be law-abiding?
MR. ISAACSON: Yes, that was included in the
motion filed the next day for the additional point, that
is correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So isn't it odd that the
-- that these documents both meant to serve the same
purpose, one has the provision for law-abiding conduct
in the future and the other doesn't?
MR. ISAACSON: Well, one is a plea agreement
that is entered in open court with the defendant present
with his attorney and the second is a motion filed by
the United States attorney the day after. So they are
different. Certainly they have different, I would
suggest, importance.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But going back to my
question, isn't it a likely explanation for the
defendant's lawyer's failure to object that he just
didn't realize this agreement didn't have this normal
provision in it?
MR. ISAACSON: I -- I can't. As to
whether -- I would suggest that it is -- this is a --
normally, these are normally included in these
agreements, I would suggest to you.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right.
MR. ISAACSON: But I would suggest to you
also that it was not included in this agreement, and
since the government drafted it I don't think we can
just assume it should be there.
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, I understand that.
But the other thing I wanted to ask you: You keep using
the term "void." Do our cases say that any breach of a
plea agreement renders it void rather than subject to
some kind of other remedy?
MR. ISAACSON: Well, if it is -- I think the
language of -- of Brady -- certainly a plea must stand
unless it is induced by misrepresentation, unfulfilled
or unfulfillable promises. Recently in the Bousley,
case: Statements in there can't go; not good if it's
induced by misrepresentation; Machibroda --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But those are cases that
say that the remedy is setting aside the -- the guilty
plea, but they don't characterize the -- the agreement
as having become void, if I -- if I remember correctly.
MR. ISAACSON: Well, again, I am -- citing
from Machibroda: A guilty plea, if induced by promises
or threats which would deprive it of a private or
voluntary act are void.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but those -- that
goes to the integrity of the guilty plea, not to whether
or not the underlying contract became void, I think.
Maybe I'm missing something.
MR. ISAACSON: Well, I -- I think what we
are saying is once the government takes its action, it
deprives the plea of its voluntary character.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't -- it doesn't
retroactively render the government's promise a
misrepresentation. Every time a -- a party to a
contract fails to comply with a contract, he hasn't been
guilty of fraud. "Misrepresentation" would mean the
government had no intention of complying with it when --
when it entered into it, and you -- you don't assert
that was the case, do you?
MR. ISAACSON: No, but I would suggest that
Santobello again talks about the intent, whether or not
-- in that case there were two prosecutors who didn't
know what one -- the other one was doing, and this Court
said that's not important; it is the integrity of the
plea that's important and the government's breach
thereof.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under the law of contracts
I assume -- I haven't looked it up yet -- that you can't
rescind for a nonmaterial breach. A trivial breach
doesn't always allow recision. And isn't it trivial if
the district court said: You know, I don't care if the
Attorney General of the United States and the Solicitor
General himself both came into the court on their hands
and knees begging me to do this. I wouldn't do this. I
wouldn't give you an increase.
MR. ISAACSON: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it seems to me an
immaterial breach, other than as to one level -- and
correct me if I am wrong. I take it as to level one --
or as to the third level, they need the recommendation
before they have the authority to reduce. Am I right
about that?
MR. ISAACSON: I'm sorry -- I am missing --
what are you talking about?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: There are some instances
in which the -- the prosecution must make the
recommendation before the district judge has the
authority to depart downward, am I correct?
MR. ISAACSON: I -- I -- I am sorry. For
the downward departure and acceptance of responsibility,
they are different. For the first two points, it can be
done in the plea agreement. The third has to be done by
the prosecution.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's right. So -- so
this -- this district judge, I take it, did not have the
authority to go down by -- by a third without the
recommendation?
MR. ISAACSON: Well, the government filed a
motion. I don't know if they officially had withdrawn
it or not. I know at sentencing they argued against it,
so -- I am not sure if the judge had the power to or
not. The motion was already on file. The government
had already asked for that. Now, they changed their
mind.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Even as to the third
level, the district judge said, you know, I will assume
that they have made the argument. I will assume they
have made the argument. I wouldn't hear the -- I -- I
wouldn't grant -- I wouldn't follow the recommendation.
I am not going to depart downward even assuming the
government -- it seems to me that there is -- the
government's breach is immaterial.
MR. ISAACSON: Well, in terms of materiality
of the breach, in Santobello there are those exact
words: The government is in a very poor position to
talk materiality after they've breached the agreement.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: My reading of Santobello
is the same as yours on that point, and it's difficult
for me to understand.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was part of this
agreement that was honored. In fact, the judge after
having said that, I never heard of giving credit for
responsibility to somebody who commits a crime in the
interim, but he said: I understand there was an
agreement to sentence at the low end, and that's what
I'm going to do.
MR. ISAACSON: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So if you say what you
want is a trial, the defendant would be exposed to not
just the upper level; plus weren't there add-ones in
this case that the judge ordered to be served
concurrently rather than consecutively?
MR. ISAACSON: Yes, there were three
underlying Federal charges that he was on supervisory
release for that the judge ran concurrently with the
sentence in this case.
JUSTICE ALITO: What would counsel say about
a case in which it's unclear whether there is a breach?
There is a factual dispute as to whether there was a
breach. Let's say the government agrees that it will
reserve the right to call all relevant facts to the
attention of the sentencing judge, but won't take a
position on sentencing. And the prosecutor in
sentencing makes certain remarks that might be
interpreted as taking a position or might be interpreted
as simply calling facts to the judge's attention.
Would it be your position that when a
defendant hears that, the defendant can sit back and
wait and see whether he or she is satisfied with the
sentence and then after this sentence is imposed raise
the issue of breach on appeal and not be subject to
plain error, rather than calling it to the attention of
the sentencing judge at the time when the -- the
potential breach could be adjudicated?
MR. ISAACSON: I think there are two parts
to your question, Your Honor, if I could address them.
In regard to a de minimus breach of the plea agreement,
we recognize that technical defects in a plea agreement
may not always require automatic reversal. However, the
government must always fulfill completely the promises
they have made in the agreement. And that goes to the
difference between a -- a plea agreement is being
different than a normal contract.
In a normal contract, you think of a -- an
Exxon merging with Mobil, things of that nature. This
is a situation where the government's -- the obligations
in the plea agreement for the vast majority are on the
defendant, what he has to do. He gives up his rights.
He must cooperate, things of that nature. As on page
51a shows, the government's agreements are extremely
small. There's only two paragraphs. And that's
normally how it is. Our position is if the government
breaches its promises, that's when it must be reversed.
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm not sure that really
answers my question.
MR. ISAACSON: Well --
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you saying as to some
errors there is a plain-error rule, in some breaches
there is a plain-error rule, but not as to all breaches?
MR. ISAACSON: No. I'm -- what I'm saying
is the threshold of whether there is a breach or not --
the question has been posed of whether or not every
single breach is automatic reversal.
We -- we recognize that there may be some
that have absolutely no basis or do not really imply or
go into what the government promised to do. Because the
government's promises as a part of the plea agreement,
again, are just two paragraphs of this case. Our
suggestion is when the government breaches what they
promised to do, that's when the automatic reversal --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you are saying, if -- if
I understand you correctly, that even if at the trial
your client's lawyer had objected and had -- and had
said, Your Honor, the government promised to recommend,
you know, a lower thing, what the trial judge would have
to have said was, the plea agreement is invalid. And
the trial judge could not say, oh, yes, the government
has to make that recommendation.
You are -- you are saying it is invalidated
by the mere fact of the government's not having done it,
right?
MR. ISAACSON: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So no objection need to be
made or can be made, right?
MR. ISAACSON: Well, certainly, we -- we'd
never suggest --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wow.
MR. ISAACSON: Well, Your Honor, it -- it
seems harsh and perhaps it is harsh, but the government
has to abide by the contracts they make.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but I take it -- you
never really answered Justice Alito's question. I take
it that the defendant and his counsel can knowingly
recognize that an error is being committed, say nothing,
listen to the sentence, and then object later. That's
your position, yes or no?
MR. ISAACSON: For it to be reversible, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's inconsistent
with the answer you gave me.
MR. ISAACSON: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The answer you gave me is
that automatically the guilty plea is washed out --
automatically.
MR. ISAACSON: We -- if the government
breaches the plea agreement, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is automatically washed
out?
MR. ISAACSON: Well, I would suggest --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And, therefore, he
cannot -- he cannot sit around and wait to see what
happens. What happens is -- whatever happens, it's
invalid. The plea agreement is no good. You have to
have a new trial.
MR. ISAACSON: I would suggest that the word
"void" may also be "voidable."
JUSTICE SCALIA: Voidable -- then your
answer to me would be different. It's -- it's not void.
It's voidable, so that he can play dog in the manger and
wait and see what happens, and then if it's in interest
that -- in his interest to void it, he does. If it's in
his interest not to void it, he doesn't.
MR. ISAACSON: Your Honor, these are not
easy issues. Certainly, defense attorneys should not
ever sit on his hands and let these things go. To take
a chance and to just say, oh, we are going to do nothing
and just sandbag, like is suggested by the government,
I'm suggesting that is never going to occur.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It would not be
cost-free for you, because if you just sit there and
say, you know, the agreement is void, the government is
going to say, well, fine, I will see you in court; and
we will have a trial; and you are going to get twice as
much as you would have gotten anyway.
You have some interest, since you entered
the guilty plea, in going forward with the plea.
MR. ISAACSON: It's absolutely -- Mr.
Puckett --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but let's put
it this way. Maybe this is the same question anyway.
Let's say it is the same facts as we have here but
instead of saying, I can't do this, the judge says, I'm
going to do this. And, look, I think you are
remorseful. I'm going to give you three points. And
that's all you agreed with the government. The
government says we'll recommend it, and the judge says,
well, you're going to get it anyway. I think you should
get it. The agreement has still been breached, right?
The government didn't recommend.
MR. ISAACSON: It has been breached.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So in that
situation, you think you can withdraw the agreement?
MR. ISAACSON: I would suggest that it would
be at the defendant's option to do so. The point that
I'm trying to make --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But why -- why should the
defendant have the option to withdraw from an agreement
when he got everything under the best possible
circumstances that he could have expected?
MR. ISAACSON: Because the government --
well, we don't know that, what the sentence would have
been by the sentencing judge.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but we are talking
about the Chief Justice's hypothetical at this point.
And they -- in his hypothetical, the sentencing judge
says, I'm going to give you the three points; you are
going to get everything that on the rosiest scenario you
could have hoped for.
Why should he be able to withdraw his plea
at that point?
MR. ISAACSON: Because the jurisprudence
teaches that the result of the effect on the sentencing
judge is simply irrelevant. If the government breach --
JUSTICE SOUTER: In other words, your
position is -- is kind of a theoretical formalistic
position, that -- I'm not sure if this is the wrong
words here -- there is a metaphysical quality to the
plea, and even though things turn out as well to him as
he could possibly have expected had the agreement been
kept punctiliously, if the government simply omits the
words he can walk away from the plea? I mean, that's
your position?
MR. ISAACSON: I believe so, yes. But there
is a reason for it. This Court has stated the
government cannot breach the plea agreement. That's all
we're saying. The power the government has in reducing
the plea, the rights the defendants are giving up, it
should be at the option of the defendant to decide.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but usually -- I mean,
the theory of relief in contract law depends upon relief
from something. And if, in fact, there is -- there is
no discernible damage that has been suffered, if on the
other hand -- again, taking the Chief's hypothetical --
there is an affirmative demonstration that no damage
occurred, normal principles of contract would say there
is nothing to give him relief from. The law of contract
is -- is not a metaphysical construct. Why should the
law of plea agreements be?
MR. ISAACSON: I -- I'm not suggesting it
would be metaphysical. I'm simply suggesting --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I think you are. I
mean, you are saying even though he has come out with,
you know, a rose in his mouth, he can still, if he is
crazy enough, throw away the whole plea agreement.
MR. ISAACSON: I think that suggests that
the result on the judge has to do with the breach, what
the government does. The concept is, if the government
breaches the plea agreement, the defendants should have
the right to withdraw from the plea even if there is no
effect on the sentence.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What I'm getting at -- I
think what we are all trying to get at -- is in order to
have a rule, an absolute rule like yours, we usually
look for a good reason to have that rule. And since we
are talking about an agreement, the place to look for
the good reason is in the consequences to the defendant.
And when the consequences are terrific, when they are
the best that he could possibly have hoped for, there
doesn't seem to be a good reason to adopt your very
theoretical construct of agreement.
Is there some reason that we are just not
seeing?
MR. ISAACSON: Because it doesn't occur. I
mean, the government could not cite a single case in
which this --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Never mind what the
government can cite. I'm asking you if there is a good
reason to adopt this absolute rule of yours.
MR. ISAACSON: There is an absolute -- the
good reason is the defendant should get the promises the
government has elicited for his giving up of his
fundamental constitutional rights. 99.9 percent of the
time that's going to be adverse to the defendant, as it
was in this case.
A possibly hypothetical situation where the
judge would forego or ignore what the United States
attorney says and give him acceptance points is so rare,
as I suggest, to not really be --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this kind of
conceptual question? Is it your view that a breach of a
plea agreement can never be concluded to be harmless
error?
MR. ISAACSON: Harmless error? Yes, I -- if
it -- well, harmless error if you are talking about
structural error, I mean it's a little different
analysis.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm trying to get rid of
the labels like "plain error" and "structural." But if
in fact it's totally harmless and everybody agrees it's
harmless, would the government still have to -- or would
there be an adverse consequence nevertheless?
MR. ISAACSON: Yes, I believe so.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So, there could never be
harmless error, harmless breach of a plea agreement?
MR. ISAACSON: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why wouldn't someone read
what happened here as the defendant saying, well, I
didn't get the acceptance credit, but the judge is still
sentencing me at the low end, and he's still making the
sentences run concurrently, so I think -- why, if he
doesn't try to withdraw the plea, why isn't it the
logical assumption that he says I didn't get the whole
promise but I got part of it, and I'll take it?
MR. ISAACSON: Well, I think sometimes the
defendant might well do that. I mean, it's not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do we know this one
didn't?
MR. ISAACSON: Well, by certainly the appeal
that we raised. Certainly he stated on the record some
questions or concerns about what overall had happened to
him, and certainly he pursued this appeal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
We will give you a couple minutes for rebuttal.
MR. ISAACSON: Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Schertler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA H. SCHERTLER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. SCHERTLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
When the government breaches a plea
agreement, an objection made in the district court
serves important purposes that relate to the functioning
of Federal courts. It permits the district court and
the parties to determine whether a breach has occurred,
and it also, in many cases, may permit an immediate cure
of that breach to be administered, obviating the need
for appellate review of the issue altogether.
A central purpose of the contemporaneous
objection rule is to ensure that the district court
proceedings are as free of error as possible. And that
purpose is served in this context, the plea breach
context, as it is in others.
Rule 52(b) reinforces the contemporaneous
objection rule by placing a heavier burden on the party
who does not object in the district court to win relief
on appeal.
The government's submission to the court
today is that the plain-error standard does apply to
forfeited claims that a plea agreement has been
breached, that the Olano framework should be followed,
and that one component of the plain-error showing in
this context should require a defendant who did not
object to a breach in the district court to show a
reasonable probability that the outcome of the
proceeding was affected by the breach.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just to explore the issue
of breach for a moment, suppose hypothetically, same
facts here, but it is all vented and discussed and aired
and objected to in the district court.
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The defense attorney says,
well, now, if you look at paragraph 8 and so forth, and
the government says, well, Your Honor, well, he
committed another crime. And then the judge says -- and
we are not going to move for the recommendation. And
the judge says: I will assume that you made the
recommendation, and I will just tell you right now I
wouldn't take the recommendation anyway. I'm not
going -- I wouldn't give a lowered sentence even if you
made the objection. What result?
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, I think the result
there is controlled by Santobello.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it? Because in
Santobello there was no reason given for the prosecutor
to violate the plea agreement. Here there's a good
reason. Can you distinguish Santobello on that basis?
MS. SCHERTLER: I would -- I would -- I
would seek to distinguish Santobello. As we say in our
brief, there seemed to have been multiple problems going
on in Santobello. And in -- and it was unclear that the
district court in Santobello even knew what the terms of
the agreement were.
This court -- a court in that situation
would have been aware -- would have sorted through what
the terms of the agreement were. Now -- and -- and, we
don't believe that there is a reason not to apply
harmless error review in this context as there is in any
other context.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Excuse me, were you --
Justice Kennedy, were you through? I'm sorry, I thought
you started a question again.
The problem I have with the harmless error
suggestion that you've made is this. If the government
does engage in some breach of the agreement, it seems to
me the consequence is that an individual has given up a
trial and as a consequence of that has given up liberty,
without either the trial that he is entitled to or
fulfillment of the conditions for giving up the liberty.
And isn't there -- isn't there a very high
value to be placed on the fact that nobody in the United
States under the constitutional guarantees should be --
should be sitting behind bars without either a
conviction following full trial, invocation of whatever
rights he wants to invoke, or a voluntary agreement to
be behind bars? And -- and when neither of those
conditions is fulfilled, don't we have an error that as
a matter of constitutional law cannot be regarded as
harmless.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, there -- certainly I
agree, Justice Souter, that -- and although there is
distinguishable facts in Santobello, that that theme is
present in Santobello as well. And the Court there said
that it was not -- at the very least, the Court said
when the government has not fulfilled its promise and an
objection is raised and the defendant has suffered an
adverse consequence that was somehow related to the
government's broken promise, that the Court is not going
to find harmlessness simply based on the district
court's statement itself that it didn't rely on what the
government had said.
Now, we would submit, however, that there
could be cases -- and the Chief Justice's hypothetical
would have one of those -- where even in a setting where
an objection is raised, if the defendant receives the
benefit that was the aim of the promise he secured from
the government -- for instance, if in Santobello the
defendant there received the lowest possible sentence
that he might have gotten -- that in that circumstance,
Santobello should not preclude harmless error review,
and the defendant cannot be said to have -- to be in
jail having not received the benefit.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I -- I think I would agree
with you there because, by whatever means, the defendant
has gotten everything the defendant bargained for.
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes, Justice Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It may have come by a more
circuitous route, but he got it all.
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But in the case when,
unlike the Chief Justice's hypothetical, when we don't
know that, when we -- the judge sort of keeps his
thoughts to himself or herself, then don't we have the
-- the problem of the -- the individual behind bars,
neither as a result of trial nor as a result of the deal
that he made?
MS. SCHERTLER: I agree that is -- that is
the strong suggestion of Santobello when there has been
an objection made. We would -- we would submit to the
Court that the analysis must differ when no objection is
made in the district court.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Doesn't -- whether we
accept that proposition or not that the analysis must
differ, doesn't that really depend on -- on what value
we place on the importance of the proposition that I
started with? If somebody's behind bars, it's either as
a result of a valid conviction after trial or a
voluntary agreement that says, yeah, I will stay there.
And if -- if we place a very high value on the liberty
interest -- in -- in retaining liberty except under
those two conditions, then isn't it fair to us -- isn't
it sensible for us to say even in a plain-error
situation, we are going to recognize this -- this kind
of prejudice, despite the fact that he didn't object?
If we place a high value on the liberty interest, we
wouldn't accept your position; isn't that fair?
MS. SCHERTLER: The high value that the
Court placed on the liberty interest in that situation
would also have to be to the exclusion of other very
important interests that are served by making sure that
objections are raised in the district court.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You are right, there is no
question about it. If -- we are saying we will take
a -- a less efficient process, a process less efficient
perhaps even for getting at the truth, because we think
the liberty interest is that important. You are
entirely right.
MS. SCHERTLER: I -- and -- but I also would
add on to that that I don't think it is only efficiency,
that that is the sole interest that would be sacrificed
by an -- by an absolutist approach, really, that Your
Honor has suggested. There also would be interests,
fairness interests, that would be compromised by that
rule, because just a rule that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Will you give me an
example?
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes, yes. The rule that
Petitioner proposes, for example, is that when a
government breach occurs, one need not object in the
district court, one may raise it on direct appeal and
one automatically gets to elect to withdraw the plea.
That would create incentives on the part of defendants
to -- to withhold objections.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No -- no question, but it
seems to me that the answer to that is, it's an
incentive that would never come into play if the
government kept its word.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So why -- why should -- why
is the government really in a position to object to
that?
MS. SCHERTLER: Because this Court has
the -- what it permits is manipulation of the system by
-- by counsel, really.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You're talking about
manipulation of the system. I just wonder if the
government wasn't manipulating the system when they said
we should grant cert in this case. You did -- you did
agree that the cert should be granted.
MS. SCHERTLER: Oh, we did acquiesce, yes.
Yes, Justice Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And are you taking the
position that -- that every case, that the absence of
objection would always be controlling?
MS. SCHERTLER: The --
JUSTICE STEVENS: For example, in this
particular case, it seems to me that if the -- if you
had an objection and if the judge had agreed with the
objection and said I will set aside the plea because of
adopting the arguments of your opponent, I think the
government would have appealed, and said that that
decision is so wrong and it's because it's really
harmless error. I think here the real question is
whether there's harmless error available, rather than
turning anything on whether or not an objection was made
in the district court.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, but this -- this is
the question on which the circuits had divided, and
which is why we acquiesced in this case to sort through
that question.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But in talking about the
division of the circuits, do you think all breaches of
-- of plea agreements should be governed by precisely
the same standard? Or do you think there are varying
facts in different cases?
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, I think that the
analysis of a breach in each case will differ and it
first and it will in the -- first and foremost depend
upon what the standard of appellate review is and
whether an objection has preserved, in which case it
would be the government's burden to show that a breach
is harmless, or in the plain-error sentencings the --
the burdens are reversed; and we think the -- the
ordinary rules codified in rule 52(a) and (b) apply in
this context equally.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's clear, isn't
it, that the defendant in this case was in fact
prejudiced? The judge -- Judge Sanders said it's very
rare, he said, that you would depart -- or I
forget whether it's depart or --
MS. SCHERTLER: So rare as to be unknown.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So rare -- I thought
he said "rare to unknown," "to be unknown" -- you are
right.
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I suspect it's
probably rarer still for the government to recommend
that. So you can't really say that he wouldn't have
done this or he certainly wouldn't have considered it.
It's one thing to say I've never heard of that. It's
another thing when one of your colleagues is there
saying, this is what you should do.
MS. SCHERTLER: The -- let me respond to
that immediate point. Which is -- my response would be,
yes, if the government were to recommend that he
received acceptance of responsibility in this situation,
that may be considered significant; but the district
court judge would also know that it was in fulfillment
of a promise that was made before renewed criminal
activity occurred from jail. And so, given that
circumstance --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah, but none of us
can know what the judge would have done. I mean, we
have had cases here where the government's
recommendation of downward departures has been pretty
surprising to me as well, and it's because they were
informants or whatever and they have engaged in some
pretty bad conduct; and I don't know what Judge Sanders
would have done.
MS. SCHERTLER: And here under the plain
error standard it was the defendant's burden to show a
reasonable probability that something different would
have happened. The court of appeals made findings on
this record that the record showed that nothing
different would have happened, even had the government
complied with its promise.
JUSTICE BREYER: Looking at this, why can't
we say the following? Some circuits have said that they
will never recognize plain error, when it's a breach of
a plea agreement. That's wrong. It could be plain
error like any other kind of a case, every other kind of
issue. Sure. But the error here isn't plain. On the
one hand, all they did, the promise was the government
agreed to request that his sentence be placed at the
lowest end, and they followed it. In the other part
they made no promise. They simply agreed that he had
demonstrated acceptance of responsibility. And then
what they did at the trial, they said, "we don't want
him to get acceptance of responsibility at this point."
Now, some people could argue that here is an
implicit promise in paragraph 1, not to say something at
the trial that is contrary to their recognition in
paragraph 8. That's where it is. On the other hand,
you could argue that there is implicit, also, a promise
not to implicitly do the first implicit, if what he has
done in the meantime is commit another serious crime.
So we have two arguments, one of which says
they committed error, and one of which says they didn't
commit error; and the argument turns on two implicit
readings of paragraph 8. Therefore, it is not plain.
End of case. What's wrong with that?
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, the -- the government
has conceded, and I don't --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I mean, the
government would like a whole lot of questions answered.
So what I don't see is how the government can come here
because they want a lot of questions answered, and get
us to take the case, which I'm not sure was a wonderful
idea; maybe it was. But then we take the case, and now
they want us to say, no, no, don't take the obvious
response to it because we would like you to answer five
other questions.
So what I want to know is, what's wrong with
what I said? Is that a possible outcome?
MS. SCHERTLER: That is a possible outcome,
Justice Breyer, and clarification for -- from this Court
that the plain-error standard does apply to this type of
error as it does to others would certainly help to
resolve the conflict that does exist out there in the
courts of appeal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I may have gotten
lost in the dialogue. As you understand it,
Justice Breyer's suggestion was that you win, right?
You get plain error, and then sometimes you apply it and
it comes out one way, and sometimes you apply it the
other.
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes. Yes, Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you are happy to
go along that.
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes. The -- it does not
give the courts all of the guidance that would be
helpful as to how to apply other components of the
plain-error standard in this context.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's a big
difference, right? As you said earlier, harmless error,
the government has the burden; plain error, the
defendant has the burden. That's certainly going to
change how you approach however many different factual
contexts.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, yes, Mr. Chief
Justice. I mean, what -- the reason that this case
seemed to us a good vehicle to address these questions
is that they was agreement throughout the appellate
process that there was an error that was plain and,
therefore, it provides an opportunity to address -- if
the Court chooses, which it need not, but if the Court
chooses -- to address how the substantial rights aspect
of the plain-error standard and discretionary aspect --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It seems to me that the
government has tried to pick a case in which it has the
strongest opportunity to win on the merits in order to
have us decide a rule that really isn't important in a
lot of other cases, but it is totally unimportant in
this case.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, Justice Stevens, what
one finds when one looks through a lot of these -- when
these cases are brought, there often is a dispute and a
real -- and a genuine dispute as to whether a breach has
occurred or not. And those cases, of course, do not
allow exposition -- explanation about the other
components.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But don't you think it
would have been open to the government to make the
argument that Justice Breyer has made and said there
really wasn't a breach here, at least an insignificant
breach that should be ignored?
MS. SCHERTLER: As we acknowledge in our
brief, there might be arguments out there that there
were implicit terms to this plea agreement that were
breached by the defendant. Those arguments were never
made in the court of appeals in this case, and so we are
accepting that record as a way --
JUSTICE BREYER: They can only get -- they
can only get your breach if they find an implicit
agreement. The implicit agreement is that you will not
tell the court that, in light of changes, paragraph 8 no
longer describes the situation. You didn't breach
paragraph 8, as taken literally. You agree he had shown
that acceptance of responsibility. What you told the
court was, now we don't think he should have this
acceptance of responsibility, which previously he had
shown, because he's committed another crime. Those are
the exact words you said to the court.
Now, he may have made an implicit not to do
that. On the other hand, that implicit promise may be
negative by, you know, the other implicit acceptance of
the fact that this applies only where we don't commit
another crime.
So I'm just saying this -- I'm not saying
you are even right. I'm just saying, having those two
arguments, it seems that you aren't plainly wrong. You
aren't plainly wrong. So how do I get to the other
questions if I believe that? Do I say, "Hypothetically
if the error here were plain, which I think it isn't,
then I'd like to tell you where the burden of proof
lies."? By the way, if I happened to think that that's
whatever it is, then I will go into a few other things.
That's really what I feel you are asking me to do
because I don't think it's plain. Maybe the other
people think it's plain.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, I mean -- as I've --
as I've already indicated, having the Court state that
the -- Rule 52(b) applies here is a -- is a -- I think,
a helpful --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think it's plain. What
about paragraph 9? Are you ignoring paragraph 9?
JUSTICE BREYER: You fulfilled paragraph 9,
didn't you?
MS. SCHERTLER: The -- paragraph 9 indicates
that the government agrees to request that Puckett's
sentence placed at the lowest end of the guideline
levels deemed applicable by the court. And there has
been no claim, at any point in this proceeding, that
that provision has been breached. What happened at the
sentencing was that the district court stated on the
record: I know that there is an agreement in here that
that the lowest end of the guideline is appropriate, and
I intend to follow that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think it's very
clear that there has been a breach here. And it's not
fanciful to say he felt remorse and then he went and did
it again. That happens all the time.
You know, when I have a rich dessert I
shouldn't have, I feel bad about it afterwards. It
doesn't mean I will not do it again. I mean, why isn't
that the case here?
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, I -- I guess that it's
a matter of some disagreement, but -- I mean, we have --
we have taken the position that this was a breach of the
government's agreement that he qualified for a
three-level reduction in his offense level. That was
the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you can put that
before the judge. You are supposed to go there and say,
"Look, we agreed to recommend it and we do recommend
it." You could say, "And by the way, you should know
that he's gone out and done this again." But you most
-- you certainly prejudiced him by not doing what you
said you would do.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, we breached the
agreement by not doing what we said we would do, and the
question we would submit to the Court is whether, given
the absence of an objection, Petitioner carried his
burden of showing that we did prejudice him. And the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but isn't it the
fact that we can never know what Judge Sanders would
have done if the government had what it said it would
do. And because -- why shouldn't you bear the burden of
showing there is no prejudice when you can't tell
because you're the one that breached the agreement?
MS. SCHERTLER: Because in the plain-error
setting, this Court has made clear that the burdens
shift and that, under the third component of that
standard, it is the defendant's burden, if he did not
object, to show an effect on the outcome of the
proceeding, that his substantial rights were violated.
And here -- and I would note that the court
of appeals made findings that the result would have been
the same, and Petitioner in this Court has never
challenged those findings on this record.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can you say just for me,
because I am changing a little bit here in light of that
question, but what is it precisely that the government
said it would do that it did not do?
MS. SCHERTLER: The -- paragraph 8 of the
plea agreement indicates that the government --
JUSTICE BREYER: What does it say? What are
the words that it says the government did not do?
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, we indicated to the
district court that Petitioner did not qualify for
acceptance of responsibility. And paragraph 8 was a
government agreement that he did qualify for acceptance
of responsibility.
JUSTICE BREYER: So he did agree. "We
agreed that he does qualify." And then when you got to
the court, you said, now we don't agree that he
qualifies at this point.
MS. SCHERTLER: That's correct. And there
was -- and there an intervening event, obviously, that
affected the judgment, but because the explicit
provision of this particular plea agreement, which I
agree is atypical, as the government's motion for the
third point made clear, did not have a qualification in
there. And that -- that is the base -- I mean, I don't
mean to be arguing strenuously that the government did
something wrong here, because there were -- but the fact
is, given the terms of this plea agreement, there --
that is the basis for our concession that there was a
breach.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: As a matter of practice
among U.S. attorneys, we do have six and a half years at
stake here, right? That's the difference between the
two levels? Why wouldn't it be the appropriate thing
for the U.S. attorney, the assistant U.S. attorney, to
say, "Judge, I want to call your attention to paragraph
8 of the plea agreement. At the time we entered into
it, we made that undertaking." And so then everybody is
sure that the judge's mind is focused on that. Wouldn't
that be the better practice?
MS. SCHERTLER: Absolutely,
Justice Ginsburg, and if there had been an objection
based on that provision of the plea agreement, that may
have been very well what would have happened. The
breach could have been cured. And the fact is that, in
the absence of that objection, the breach was not cured
when it could have been, and that is one reason -- that
is why it makes sense to apply the plain-error standard
in this context.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, could the breach have
been cured? I mean, the point -- it seems to me, the
point at which the defendant would have known that the
government had breached the agreement was when the
government stood there before the court and said, "In
fact, he hasn't accepted responsibility. He went out
and committed another crime while he was behind bars."
It seems to me that that's the point -- and
maybe this phrase occurred somewhere in the record --
that that's a bell that you can't unring. For the
defendant to get up and object and said, "Wait a minute,
were you supposed to represent to the court that you
agreed that I did accept responsibility" -- to require
the government to fulfill that undertaking at that point
would have been ridiculous. I suppose the U.S. attorney
could have said, "Oh, yes, he's right, Judge. We agreed
that he accepted responsibility." But the U.S. attorney
has already just said a moment before, "He hasn't. We
really don't mean that at all."
There's no way, it seems to me, that there
could have been a better outcome in a case like this,
even if the objection had been contemporary.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well, there would be more
than one way to cure a breach such as this, if an
objection had been raised in the district court. One
way would have been by the correction on the record that
we have just discussed, but another way --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Which would have been
silly.
MS. SCHERTLER: But if the defendant -- and
if the defendant said that, that would be a silly way to
correct it. It also could have been sent to another
judge for resentencing, just as the Court in Santobello
said, that a remedy could be accomplished.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was sent to another
judge, that judge would still have the presentence
report. After all, it wasn't the government that
initiated reneging on the -- if it was the -- it was the
presentence report. And before the government said a
word, the judge had read and was discussing the
presentence report, which said, judge, earlier, we said
you should give credit for acceptance of
responsibilities, now we must tell you, you should not.
MS. SCHERTLER: The probation officer said
that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes. And I don't think
Petitioner -- Petitioner even contends that he is
entitled now -- or he contends he is entitled to get out
of this plea. But taking the more typical remedies that
this Court proposed as one possibility in Santobello, I
don't think Petitioner would say that a judge should not
know that he did -- that he engaged in subsequent
criminal conduct. That is information that any judge
sentencing him must know about in order to fairly assess
what sentence he should receive.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe Judge Sanders
would look at this kind of the way that we have been
discussing it, and he would look and say, boy, it's --
it's -- he committed subsequent conduct, how can you
recommend that I depart? He says, but on the other
hand, every plea agreement I have seen you always say if
he commits subsequent conduct that is illegal, that all
bets are the off. You didn't say that here, so I'm
going to take the recommendation seriously.
I don't think it's -- maybe I am repeating
myself, but I don't think it is at all clear that the
result wouldn't be different here.
MS. SCHERTLER: Well -- and again, I guess I
would give the same response, that it -- it is
Petitioner's burden to show a likelihood, a reasonable
likelihood that it would have been different.
JUSTICE SOUTER: With respect, that is not
what Olano says, is it? The -- the -- the basic Olano
standard is a -- is a violation of substantial rights
standard.
MS. SCHERTLER: Yes, Justice Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And one way that you could
show a violation of substantial rights would be a -- a
demonstration that the outcome would have been
different. But another possibility of showing that
violation is -- is whether -- and I know you don't
accept it, but it's the one that I proposed earlier,
there is a violation of substantial rights if somebody
is sitting behind bars without having gotten there by
the performance of an agreement that he made, or as a
result of a trial. And that, too, could satisfy the
Olano formulation, could it not?
MS. SCHERTLER: It could, Justice Souter.
And if the Court were to take that position, we would
argue that there is still, under the plain-error
standard, the fourth component, the discretionary
component --
JUSTICE BREYER: I know you want to -- as I
point out one other thing to you. I think it's a hard
question, burden of proof and these other things, that I
just turned the page, after the person, Ms. Simms, she's
the prosecutor, and she's absolutely clear to me, others
can disagree, that this judge knew just what the
government had agreed to, and the prosecutor was saying
that now things have changed.
And then the judge turns to the probation
officer, and the probation officer says, just to
reiterate what Ms. Simms said, the new offense,
according to the guidelines of the guideline manual,
prohibits any acceptance of responsibility. Now, if
that turns out to be right, of course, it couldn't
matter less whose burden of proof it is.
MS. SCHERTLER: It was not correct, as a
matter of fact, and the defense attorney made that
correction, and the -- and the judge accepted that. And
if I could go back --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He wasn't -- was he
convicted of this new crime?
MS. SCHERTLER: He -- not at the time of
these proceedings.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It was just an
allegation, right?
MS. SCHERTLER: That's right. Another --
another defendant had pled guilty to this crime, and the
factual statement supporting his plea had implicated
Petitioner as having instigated the crime, suggested
to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why did we assume
anything anyway? I assume he denies the allegations.
MS. SCHERTLER: He admitted the allegations
to the probation officer, and that is what was reflected
in the presentence report.
And if I could return to Justice Souter's
question about if the Court were to take the position
that a form of substantial rights is affected in every
case of a government breach of plea agreement, we would
respectfully submit that as this Court analyzed a
similar type of difficult question in Johnson and
Cotton, that the fourth discretionary component of the
standard should preclude relief or should at least give
the district court, the court of appeals discretion to
not grant relief where, as in this case, there has been
no showing that there was an effect on the outcome, and,
as the Court of Appeals found, an affirmative record
that the outcome would have been exactly the same.
Thank you, Your Honors. We would ask that
the judgment be affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Isaacson, why don't you take two
minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LARS R. ISAACSON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ISAACSON: Thank you, Your Honor.
The problem that the Puckett panel had in
the third prong of 52(b) they focused on whether or not
there is prejudice at sentencing. That was the focus of
the Puckett panel. That is why they said 52(b) plain
error applied and was found in that case.
The problem with that is that Santobello
clearly points out that prejudice to the trial judge,
that the trial judge -- what the trial judge would have
done is simply not relevant. That is why 52(b) cannot
be applied in this case.
Secondly, when the government argues that
there is no prejudice -- you have to show prejudice at
sentencing, the judge would have done something
different, that is virtually an impossible standard.
Under 18 U.S.C. 355 -- there are a number of factors a
sentencing judge has to take into. The idea -- and
there is many different factors they must look at, all
of these different things.
The idea that a defendant can somehow show a
judge would have come to a different result but for the
government breach is an impossibility.
The final point I would make is, the
argument the government is making now about prejudice,
it would make no difference at all if the defendant had
objected at the time. If there is no effect on
sentencing, it would not pass muster under plain-error
or the harmless error standards. So the next case that
is going to come before this Court is when you have an
objection, and then they're going to say the exact same
argument here.
We would ask you to reverse the decision of
the Fifth Circuit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:15 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
58:15 31:24 50:9,18,24 Appendix 8:16 attention 21:10
48:15 adopt 29:7,16 54:16 56:12 applied 11:9 attorney 16:1,2
adopting 39:7 agreements 5:4 57:9,14 18:15 29:25
30:14 35:4 14:23 16:13 apply 32:11 51:20,22 55:15
50:22 56:20 39:20 43:14,21,22 50:13
affirmed 56:23 agrees 21:8 44:4 51:4 atypical 50:4
51:18 14:5 34:23 aired 32:21 44:10 automatic 22:2
35:20 36:9 Alito 9:12 11:18 appropriate 23:1,8
7:2,8 8:3 49:21,23 50:4 21:5 22:17,20 argue 42:12,16 24:15,16,19
10:16 agreed 3:14 8:2 Alito's 24:5 54:21 38:3
19:8 8:5 26:7 39:5 allegation 55:23 argued 19:18 available 39:11
30:21 42:6,8 48:7 allegations 56:5 argues 57:15 aware 33:22
42:9,11 49:22 51:18,21 56:6 arguing 50:7 a.m 1:13 3:2
49:18 55:5 allow 18:13 45:7 argument 1:12 58:14
52:22 agreement 4:1,7 allowed 13:10 2:2,7 3:4,7 5:1
altogether 31:25 11:21 19:25 B
55:16 8:4,11,13 9:2,4 analysis 30:9 42:21 45:11 back 14:9 15:6
12:7,16,20 answer 24:12,14 42:19 45:15,17 bad 41:15 47:21
14:11,16,19 answered 24:5 artificial 6:5 4:24 6:8 10:12
19:10 20:9,14 anybody 8:22 asked 10:10 36:6,18 51:12
17:18 23:5,14 24:18 33:6 56:5 46:20 based 35:6
41:7 26:10,14,20 appeal 21:19 assert 18:1 basic 4:21 54:4
33:23 34:7,17 45:18 49:5 16:18 18:11 begging 18:17
3:8 breaches 11:11 56:12,18 57:9 circuits 14:13 17:25
31:15 11:16 12:15 57:14 58:6,13 39:15,19 41:25 component
22:16,21,22 58:14 circumstance 32:14 48:25
14:14 39:19 39:22 41:11 26:22 44:4 45:8
30:15 Breyer 41:24 44:25 45:4,6 cite 29:12,15 compromised
46:15 43:1,13 45:11 central 32:1 citing 17:9 37:20
broke 3:23 34:22 40:21 48:24 50:5 50:10
6:3 8:10 burdens 40:5 changes 45:23 come 14:10 34:19 36:23
9:1 11:21 48:24 changing 49:9 28:15 35:24 conduct 14:24
12:14 character 17:19 38:8 43:3 15:22 41:15
15:7 C characterize 57:24 58:7 53:9,15,18
18:8,12 C 2:1 3:1 17:7 comes 4:16 conflict 43:16
20:5 call 21:9 50:17 charges 21:2 43:22 consecutively
21:6,8,19 called 7:20 Chief 3:3,9 6:12 commit 42:18 20:25
22:24 calling 21:14,20 8:18 25:16 42:21 46:9 consequence
27:11,23 care 8:21 18:14 26:1,13,18 commitment 30:14 34:8,9
30:3,17 carried 48:15 27:2 31:10,13 13:19 14:11 35:4
32:4 carry 4:24 31:16 35:10 commitments consequences
case 3:4,11 5:3 36:3 40:8,14 14:7 29:4,5
38:1 6:4 9:4,5 11:6 40:18 41:9 commits 7:10 considerably
40:3 11:9,12,18 43:18,24,25 20:16 53:18 13:13
45:5,12 12:6,13 13:11 44:6,12 47:16 committed 8:22 considered
13:17 17:3 48:5,17 53:12 24:7 33:2 40:21 41:4
48:1 18:2,5 20:24 55:18,22 56:4 42:20 46:4 constitutional
51:1,2,6 21:4,6 23:6 56:24 58:12 51:12 53:15 12:25 29:20
56:12 29:12,22 36:2 Chief's 28:6 committing 3:23 34:14,20
38:20,25 39:4 choose 14:15 7:4 construct 28:10
20:9 40:9 42:3,23 44:19 complied 14:8 contemporane...
32:13 43:5,6 44:13 chose 8:10 41:23 32:1,6
47:11 44:22 45:1,18 Circuit 58:11 comply 17:23 contemporary
32:2,8,10,16 decide 28:1 depend 36:16 district 5:5
33:25 35:1,5 36:12 decision 39:9 deprive 17:11 32:2,8,16,22
40:7 44:5 36:13 37:5,8 58:10 deprives 17:19 33:19 35:6
38:2,14 39:13 deemed 47:9 describes 45:24 36:13 37:8
11:20
46:2,5 4:14,14 5:7 6:7 determine 6:7 49:17 52:5
13:1
47:9,12 10:10,17 14:14 31:22 56:17
49:4 14:24 15:16,25 dialogue 43:19 divided 39:15
28:3,8,9 49:6,17,23 20:22 21:16,16 differ 36:12,16 division 39:19
52:13 53:6 26:20 28:1 difference 22:5 15:21
56:17,17,20 30:20 31:3 58:3 doing 4:1 18:6
36:19 court's 12:21 52:10,11 55:25 19:9 22:6 25:5 drafted 5:4
15:19 crazy 28:17 27:25 28:21 53:23 54:2,11 D.C 1:8,18
19:6 create 38:4 38:4 57:18,21,22,24
49:25 credit 7:2,8 defendant's difficult 20:11 E
55:14 10:16 15:14 16:7 26:16 56:14 E 2:1 3:1,1
52:22 defense 25:11 disagree 55:4 52:21 54:13
7:4,10 8:23 deliberately 47:25 effect 9:6 27:10
31:10 56:2 demonstrates discretionary efficiency 37:16
56:24 criminal 5:2,8 4:15 44:20 54:22 efficient 37:11
5:14 6:23 41:6 demonstration 56:15 37:11
cured 51:1,2,7 depart 19:6 20:3 discussing 52:20 elect 38:3
4:12 D Department dispute 21:7 engage 34:7
7:10 9:11 D 3:1 1:18 45:4,5 engaged 14:24
15:25 damage 28:5,7 departure 8:22 distinguish 41:14 53:8
day 15:18 16:2 19:8 33:14,16 ensure 32:2
27:22 de 21:25 departures distinguishable enter 12:13,19
deal 36:7 41:12 34:24 entered 11:23
15:25 extra 10:16 five 43:8 18:15,16 good 17:3 24:25
25:22 extremely 22:13 focus 57:7 genuine 45:5 29:2,4,7,15,18
Exxon 22:8 focused 50:20 getting 28:24 33:13 44:14
34:10 fact 3:22 7:22 47:15 6:25 7:6 9:21 43:18 54:15
9:18 12:14 followed 32:13 10:3,6,9,14,23 governed 11:19
24:7 37:1 40:9 46:9 foreclosed 12:9 20:13,21 30:19 4:17,25 5:3,19
48:18 50:8 forego 29:24 31:4 50:12,23 6:2,10,13 7:15
32:3 51:1,11 55:15 foremost 39:25 52:15 53:1 7:25 8:21 9:2,7
34:5,19 factors 6:19,22 forfeited 32:12 Ginsburg's 8:19 9:9,18 10:11
39:10,11 6:24 57:19,21 forget 40:12 12:5 10:15 11:11,15
42:1,3,4 facts 3:11,21 forgot 15:1 give 6:21 7:2,7 13:18,25 14:10
43:15 21:9,14 26:3 form 56:11 8:21 9:17 15:2,7 16:17
44:7,8 32:21 34:24 formalistic 13:16 18:18 17:18,25 19:16
46:16 39:22 27:13 26:6 27:4 28:9 19:20 20:4,8
58:6 factual 21:7 formulation 29:25 31:11 21:8 22:3,15
fails 17:23 forth 32:25 44:3 52:22 24:2,17 25:14
fair 15:2,6 36:23 found 56:20 given 33:12 34:8 26:11,23 27:11
50:19 far 5:22 framework 27:25 29:19 34:6 35:2,8,14
31:21 fraud 17:24 go 4:17,25 6:19 39:8 40:19
39:3 felt 9:22 47:18 fulfilled 34:19 23:4 25:12 44:8,22 45:10
find 35:6 45:21 31:20 8:21 16:5 20:3 57:15,25 58:2
45:7 49:5,7 3:12 29:20 25:19,20,23 8:24 9:1 10:12
50:4 hear 3:3 20:1 45:16,21,22 instructive 3:18 22:23 23:20,23
40:22 implicitly 42:17 18:7 24:21 25:2,10
47:1 important 9:6 25:22 36:22 31:12 56:25
37:2,4 37:7,13 44:24 interests 37:7,19 issue 11:25
55:10
25:10 57:25 interpreted issues 25:11
57:4 impracticable intervening 50:1 jail 3:24 7:3
25:23 honored 20:14 4:23 invalid 23:14 35:19 41:7
Honors 56:22 incentive 38:8 24:25 JAMES 1:3
46:7 29:23 35:10 inconsistent 34:16 6:7,25 7:5,6,11
36:3 6:13 24:11 invoke 34:17 8:20 9:6,8,12
32:20 46:15 indicate 5:23 12:19 10:18,25 12:5
30:20 I 46:24 49:16 irrelevant 27:11 14:9,10 19:5
41:20,22 idea 43:6 57:20 indicates 6:4 Isaacson 1:15 19:13,19,24
47:11 57:23 47:6 49:13 2:3,8 3:6,7,9 20:14,24 21:3
ignore 4:9,10 individual 34:8 3:20,25 5:3,11 21:10,21 23:13
26:4,8
25:7
ignoring 47:3 17:10 8:15,25 9:15 28:19 29:24
18:21 20:5 information 13:6,9,14,21 41:10,15 48:6
33:25 immediate 53:9 13:24 14:12 48:18 50:17
35:17 31:23 41:1 initiated 52:18 15:5,11,13,17
52:13,16
40:4
58:6 5:14 45:12 16:24 17:9,17 53:7,9,12 55:4
implicit 42:13 instances 19:3 19:16 20:6,20 57:12,12,17,20
50:20 49:21 50:12,23 law 4:3,22 11:20 42:7 47:8,14 minutes 31:11
53:1,12 54:3,7 28:11 34:20 M misrepresenta...
55:18,22 56:4 lawyer 10:17 17:4,10 missing 17:16
4:2 5:10 35:10 36:3 law-abiding making 30:22 moment 32:20
6:4,12 15:16,22 37:7 58:2 51:23
7:6,13,17 K let's 14:4,4 21:8 man 4:18 motion 10:19,20
8:12,17 keep 5:24 16:20 26:1,3 manger 25:6 15:10,12,18
9:12 keeps 36:4 level 3:15 9:3 manipulating 16:1 19:17,20
10:3,6,9 Kennedy 5:13 11:17 14:15 38:19 50:4
5:22 18:10,20 18:21,22,23 manipulation mouth 28:16
19:3,12,23 19:24 20:23 38:15,18 move 6:3 33:3
13:3,8 20:10 24:4 48:3 manual 55:10 multiple 33:17
32:19,24 33:11 levels 47:9 50:15 materiality 20:6 muster 58:5
15:9 34:3 Lewisville 1:15 20:9
kept 27:18 38:9 liberty 34:9,11 matter 1:11 9:8 N
kind 16:23 36:21,22 37:2 34:20 47:25 N 2:1,1 3:1
27:13 30:2 37:5,13 50:12 55:13,15 nature 22:8,12
19:3 36:25 42:3,3 lies 46:18 58:15 need 18:23
20:10 53:13 light 45:23 49:9 ma'am 10:1 23:21 31:24
21:5 knees 18:17 likelihood 54:1 mean 4:9,11 38:1 44:18
23:9 knew 9:23 10:11 54:2 6:14,16 9:22 needs 5:19
24:4 33:19 55:4 LISA 1:17 2:5 12:15,18 17:24 negative 46:8
know 4:11,15 31:14 27:19 28:2,15 negotiated
25:4,16 8:5,13 9:3 listen 24:8 29:12 30:8 14:20
11:19 18:6,14 literally 45:25 31:3 41:10 negotiating 15:3
28:2 19:17,18,24 little 30:8 49:9 43:1 44:13 neither 34:18
29:14 23:13 25:18 logical 30:25 46:23 47:22,22 36:7
26:24 28:16 long 12:6 47:25 50:6,7 never 11:11
31:4 36:4 41:5 longer 45:24 51:7,24 12:15 20:15
33:11 41:10,15 43:10 look 26:5 29:2,3 means 35:21 23:24 24:5
46:8 47:13,20 32:25 48:7 meant 15:21 25:15 29:14
48:8,18 53:8 53:13,14 57:21 mentioned 30:4,16 38:8
37:9 53:10 54:12,24 looked 18:11 14:18 40:22 42:1
38:6,11 knowing 12:22 Looking 41:24 mere 23:18 45:17 48:18
knowingly 24:6 looks 6:24 45:3 merging 22:8 49:6
40:8 known 9:13 51:8 lost 43:19 merits 44:23 nevertheless
41:9 lot 43:2,4 44:25 metaphysical 30:14
43:1,13 L 45:3 27:15 28:10,13 new 14:9 25:1
labels 30:11 low 20:18 30:22 mind 19:22 55:9,19
language 15:1 lower 4:13,19 29:14 50:20 nonmaterial
16:25 8:8 23:13 minimus 21:25 18:12
16:8 oh 5:10 23:15 particular 39:4 play 25:6 38:8 8:11 9:18 19:9
28:8 25:13 38:22 50:3 plea 3:18,22 4:1 26:6 27:4
22:15 Olano 32:13 14:7 31:22 5:12,20,20 7:9 poor 20:8
open 7:1 15:25 pass 58:5 11:1,1,5,11,16 21:11,13,15
penalty 13:13 11:19,22,23 22:15 24:9
24:8 32:8 option 26:16,20 performance 17:10,14,19 possibility 53:6
37:1 28:1 54:16 18:8 19:10 54:11
49:2 oral 1:11 2:2 3:7 permit 31:23 21:25 22:1,5 possible 26:21
31:14 permits 31:21 22:10 23:5,14 32:3 35:15
58:4 44:23 53:10 permitted 5:15 25:23,23 27:7 possibly 27:17
31:19 ordinary 40:6 Petitioner 1:4 28:11,17,21,22 posture 6:5
33:8 outcome 32:17 1:16 2:4,9 3:8 30:4,17,24 potential 21:22
36:11 43:11,12 49:2 37:25 48:15 31:18 32:4,12 Potentially
39:1,5,6 52:1 54:10 49:6,17 53:3,3 33:13 38:3 13:14
40:2 56:19,21 53:7 56:2 57:3 39:6,20 42:2 power 19:19
50:23 overall 31:8 Petitioner's 54:1 45:16 49:13 27:24
52:2,5 overpinnings phrase 51:14 50:3,9,18,24 practicably 4:25
12:25 pick 44:22 53:5,17 56:1 practice 50:12
36:21 37:2 pleading 6:17 practiced 5:5
paragraph 42:1,2,4,22 point 6:3 7:13 56:16
41:7 42:22 45:23,25 46:16,21,22 9:16,19 11:8 37:1 48:16,21
51:14 47:3,3,4,6 47:2 57:8 12:5 15:18 57:7,11,16,16
55:9 23:6 32:11,14 36:24 49:24 50:5 48:10
56:7 23:5 31:1 38:4 51:4 54:21 points 6:8,9,11 presentence
52:16,19 proposition 39:17 48:14 31:11 57:2 56:16,18
56:8 36:15,17 49:10 55:1 receive 6:10 rely 12:8 35:7
prosecutors quite 5:5 recognition 14:8,12 16:23
41:19 16:9 47:11 raise 21:18 38:2 recommend 8:7 47:18
40:19 provisions 14:20 35:3,12 37:8 40:19 41:2 26:6
56:7 3:12 6:9 9:19 raises 11:17 recommendat... 17:21
36:6 57:5 13:9 14:2 range 8:8 19:5,15 20:2 13:25
25:25 57:5,8 rare 29:25 40:11 23:16 33:3,5,6 renders 11:16
47:10 27:18 reaches 14:15 7:22 renewed 41:6
purpose 15:22 read 30:19 record 8:13 repeating 53:21
55:21 purposes 4:9 reading 20:10 41:21,21 45:19 52:21 56:8
44:16 pursued 31:9 real 39:10 45:5 51:14 52:6 request 13:6
puts 6:4 really 4:17,18 reducing 27:24 32:15 51:18
31:1 22:17 23:3 reduction 3:15 required 13:18
41:6 Q 24:5 30:1 7:14 48:3 rescind 18:12
42:5,8 qualification 36:16 37:18 reed 9:20 resentencing
46:7 50:5 38:12,16 39:9 reflected 56:7 52:13
6:10 48:2 45:12 46:20 regarded 34:20 resolve 43:16
17:2 qualify 49:17,19 reason 27:22 reiterate 55:9 respectfully
22:3,16 49:22 29:2,4,7,9,16 relate 31:20 56:13
29:18 quality 27:15 29:18 33:12,14 related 35:4 respond 40:25
21:24 22:18,25 reasonable 9:11 21:9 response 41:1
34:4 37:10 54:1 relief 13:3,6 responsibilities
10:16 25:16 26:1,13 says 5:7 8:20,21 seen 53:17 10:12
19:8 26:18 31:10,13 26:4,8,8 27:4 send 14:9 sides 15:6
41:3 40:8,14,18 29:25 30:25 sense 51:4 significant 41:4
46:1,3 41:9 43:18,25 32:24 33:1,2,4 sensible 36:24 silly 52:9,11
51:11 44:6 47:16 36:20 42:19,20 sent 7:3 52:12 similar 56:14
55:11 48:5,17 53:12 49:15 53:16 52:15 Simms 55:2,9
33:8,9 56:24 58:12 Scalia 4:2 5:10 20:18 21:4,18 27:11,18 28:13
49:5 rose 28:16 6:4 8:12,17 21:18 24:8 35:6 42:8
54:17 rosiest 27:5 13:15,22 14:3 26:24 28:23 57:13
route 35:25 17:20 23:9,21 33:7 35:15 single 23:1
29:1,2,16 32:2 47:2 sentences 30:23 25:12,17
44:24 46:25 2:5 31:13,14 11:2 13:5 situation 3:18
35:23 36:1,9 27:3,10 30:22 36:25 37:5
33:25 sacrificed 37:17 39:2,14,23 58:5 slim 9:20
40:1 sandbag 25:14 40:13,17,25 sentencings 40:4 small 22:14
10:13 Santobello 9:5,7 48:12,23 49:12 32:4 37:7 somebody 14:25
13:8 11:10,12 18:4 49:16,25 50:22 serves 31:20 20:16 54:14
16:14 20:7,10 33:10 52:3,10,24 set 13:10 39:6 somebody's
19:12 33:12,14,16,18 53:2,24 54:7 setting 17:6 36:18
23:19,22 33:19 34:24,25 54:19 55:14,20 35:11 48:24 soon 7:3
28:22 35:14,17 36:10 55:24 56:6 shift 48:25 sorry 10:1,24
37:9,14 52:13 53:6 scrivener's show 32:16 40:3 15:7 19:1,7
43:20 57:10 14:22 41:18 49:2 24:13 34:3
46:12 satisfactory se 10:22 54:1,9 57:16 sort 36:4 39:16
51:21 13:23 second 8:6 16:1 57:23 sorted 33:22
satisfied 21:17 secondly 9:5 showed 41:21 Souter 7:13,17
22:11 saying 5:19 8:11 secret 10:14 48:16,21 54:11 27:1,12 28:2
29:20 17:18 22:20,23 secured 35:13 56:19 28:14,24 29:14
44:19 23:9,17 26:4 see 21:17 24:23 shown 4:14 34:2,23 35:20
54:5,9,14 27:24 28:15 25:7,19 43:3 45:25 46:4 35:23,24 36:2
30:20 37:10 seeing 29:10 shows 7:9 14:20 36:14 37:9,22
54:3,7,8 32:10 system 38:15,18 theory 28:3 44:25
submit 35:9 38:19 thereof 18:9 trial 3:13 12:2,9
16:25 subsequently 25:12 31:1 57:22 57:12
40:1 substantial 43:5,6,7 53:20 16:24 17:15,17 trivial 18:12,13
43:14 44:19 49:3 54:20 56:10,25 21:23 22:7 truth 37:12
49:1 54:5,9,14 57:20 26:5,9,14 try 30:24
54:5,6,22 56:11 taken 9:25 10:4 28:14,18,25 trying 9:16
57:18 suffered 28:5 45:25 48:1 30:23 31:2 26:17 28:25
suggest 11:8 talked 12:7 39:10,19,21,23 turned 55:2
47:12 18:3 23:24 38:17 39:18 46:25 47:2,16 55:12
56:1 26:15 30:1 teach 4:2 54:25 two 3:11,21 8:4
16:2 suggesting technical 22:1 19:10,14,23 22:14 23:6
29:24 25:15 28:12,13 tell 4:3 33:5 48:25 50:5 36:23 42:19,21
suggestion 23:7 45:23 46:17 57:6 46:12 50:15
suggests 28:18 termination thoughts 36:5 56:14
30:2 supervisory 6:23 threats 17:11 typical 53:5
38:17 21:2 terms 5:24 20:6 three 3:21 21:1
39:3 supporting 56:1 33:19,23 45:16 26:6 27:4 U
44:21 suppose 4:16 50:9 three-level 3:15 unclear 21:6
8:18 32:20 terrific 29:5 48:3 33:18
8:1 14:11 48:6 Thank 8:17 time 6:15 12:17 21:2
42:4 43:5 theoretical timely 11:13 14:21
surprising 41:13 theoretically told 46:1 50:19 51:19
14:1,16 16:21 withdraw 10:19 2
17:2 17:15 25:3,5,8 13:4 26:14,20
17:1 voidable 25:3,4 30:24 38:3 3 2:4
voluntarily withhold 38:5 35 11:10
16:2
29:24 14:6 17:12,19 wonderful 43:5 5
34:17 36:20 word 10:18 25:2 51a 22:13
W words 20:8 52(b) 32:6 46:25
51:16 wouldn't 9:14 57 2:9
walk 27:19 30:19 33:6,7 8 8:16 32:25
43:4,7,10 Wow 23:25 50:18
27:14 39:9
37:2 45:12 52:17 Y
55:18 yeah 36:20 41:9
6:23 8:16
1:13 3:2
weren't 20:23
9:24
58:14
we're 27:24
1:9
57:19
12:24 44:23
