IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MICHAEL RIVERA, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-9995
ILLINOIS. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, February 23, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JAMES K. LEVEN, ESQ., Chicago, Ill.; on behalf of the
Petitioner.
MICHAEL A. SCODRO, ESQ., Solicitor General, Chicago,
Ill.; on behalf of the Respondent.
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington,
D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
JAMES K. LEVEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MICHAEL A. SCODRO, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondent 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JAMES K. LEVEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 07-9995, Rivera v. Illinois.
Mr. Leven.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES K. LEVEN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. LEVEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Petitioner lawfully exercised a
peremptory challenge on juror Delores Gomez. As a
result of the erroneous denial of that challenge, Ms.
Gomez wrongfully sat on the jury and lacked authority to
render a judgment. Petitioner's conviction should be
reversed automatically for three separate and
independent reasons.
First, the trial before an unlawful
adjudicator is structural error. Two, the wrongful
seating of a juror is structural error, because the
effect of the error is impossible to determine --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you putting -- are
you equating this with a biased judge? The -- the
category of structural error has been kept very narrow
by this Court. And it seems to me that a juror who is
perfectly qualified, who it is conceded -- it is
conceded could not have been dismissed for cause, is
quite a different matter than a judge who -- who has
taken a bribe or who has a monetary stake in the case.
It -- it seems quite a stretch to apply
those decisions to -- to the case of a juror who was
qualified, and it was just a judge who was overexuberant
in denying a peremptory challenge.
MR. LEVEN: Well, our unlawful-adjudicator
claim is not dependent on a finding or showing of bias.
A -- a juror who is illegally on the jury, who does not
have the authority to serve, would render the jury
improperly constituted. Therefore, there would be
structural error for a jury illegally constituted to
render a judgment irrespective of bias.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. But your whole
argument that the -- that the juror was illegally
sitting and the jury was illegally constituted is a --
in effect a statement of the effect of State law. And
the State supreme court doesn't think that's the effect
under State law.
So it seems to me that the -- the full
premise of your argument that there is something
inherently unlawful about the seating of that juror is
simply in -- in effect denied by the State supreme
court. And we take our law from them.
MR. LEVEN: Well, Your Honor, there are
State law and Federal law components to this issue.
Petitioner had a lawful right to excuse juror Gomez
under Illinois Supreme Court Rule 434.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But no -- no
constitutional right, no constitutional right to the
peremptory challenge.
MR. LEVEN: Well, there is a constitutional
right to due process involved that is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you -- you in effect
are saying that any violation of State law with respect,
let's say, to criminal trial procedure becomes, if not
remedied, a due process violation under Federal law.
That's -- that's your -- your unstated premise, isn't
it?
MR. LEVEN: No, Your Honor. The -- our
argument is very narrow in scope: That if a -- a jury
that is illegally constituted renders a verdict of
guilty, then that jury is an unlawful adjudicator. The
unlawful adjudicator claim is what triggers the right to
due process.
JUSTICE BREYER: There could be a thousand
reasons why under State law a particular jury is
improperly constituted. So you are saying whenever the
State under whatever State laws it has says that the
judge made a mistake about who to put on the jury, that
that violates the Federal Constitution.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just as an example, to
follow up on Justice Breyer's question -- and then can
you answer his question -- many States have -- have
rules that you have to be a resident of the county to
serve on that jury. And suppose a juror thinks that he
or she is a resident and gets the county line wrong or
doesn't know what the residency requirement. Under your
rule -- what is your term, an "unlawful adjudicator."
And then we have a -- we have a -- a Federal
constitutional standard that requires structural error
for any State -- for any violation of any State -- State
rule. That is Justice Breyer's question.
MR. LEVEN: Well, with respect to jury
qualifications such as age and citizenship, there is a
very delicate screening process that goes into effect.
So the problem of an unlawful-adjudicator with respect
to, say, age would be a very, very rare phenomenon and
would rarely occur, because jurors who are too young to
serve, perhaps under 18 years old, would never make
their way to a jury pool in the first place. So it
would really be unfair to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You are -- you are
avoiding the question by saying, oh, don't worry, there
are not going to be many violations of this sort, and
then you pick out age. But Justice Breyer began -- the
preface to his question was -- was that there are -- are
manifold requirements varying from State to State.
MR. LEVEN: Well, I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What you are giving us is
a sweeping proposition, A, for the constitutional
principles that you are setting forth; B, for the
supervision and intrusion it would cause Federal courts
on the State system.
MR. LEVEN: Well, if we take the juror's
qualifications that were discussed in the State's brief,
it would appear that all the qualifications that are
discussed there would -- as I said, it would be a very
rare situation, indeed, for a --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why? One
qualification is that a jury -- a juror can't be
prejudiced. All right. I think it's a very common
thing for prosecutors and defense lawyers to get into
arguments about whether a particular juror is or is not
prejudiced. Okay.
So sometimes the judge excuses them, maybe
five million times a year; and probably in a certain
percentage, maybe 5,000 or 500 or 50,000, the judge is
wrong. All right.
So the State appellate court says he's
wrong. So the jury wasn't made up properly.
Now you are saying in every one of those
cases that violates the Federal Constitution. I have
never heard of this before. It may be there is some
precedent for it. I don't know. That's why I am
asking.
MR. LEVEN: Well, Gomez versus United States
set forth the principle equating a right to an
adjudicator with lawful authority to decide at every
critical stage of the proceeding.
JUSTICE BREYER: So that means that held --
we have held in that case -- I had better look at it --
that in any instance where excusing a juror violates
State law that that is a violation of the Federal
Constitution. Which is the case that says that?
MR. LEVEN: Well, that -- that case did not
involve jurors, Your Honor, but it did involve a
magistrate who lacked the authority to preside over voir
dire. And the court held under a general principle of
law equating the right of -- the lawful-authority right
to the right to an impartial jury and used the phrase "a
basic fair trial right," meaning that the right to a
lawful adjudicator is a basic fair trial right. And
also --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you are not --
suggesting, because you conceded there was no basis for
a for-cause challenge, you are not -- you are not saying
that Gomez was unqualified or that she was biased. If
she was biased, you had a basis for that, she could be
excused for cause.
MR. LEVEN: Well, there is a reasonable
possibility of bias with respect to Gomez because of her
extensive contacts with gunshot victims at Cook County
Hospital --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But she was an
administrator. She wasn't a nurse. She didn't deal
with people who had gunshot wounds.
MR. LEVEN: Well, the Illinois Supreme Court
held that defense counsel's strike of Gomez was a valid
reason to have her removed from the jury. She could
have, even though she said -- even though she was not
challengeable for cause, the peremptory challenge is
there for a purpose, and that is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't need a good
reason for a peremptory challenge.
MR. LEVEN: The peremptory -- if I
understand.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the whole fun of a
peremptory challenge: You don't need a good reason.
MR. LEVEN: Well, the purpose of the
peremptory challenge is to help to create a fair and
impartial jury.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly. And for some
reason, I just think this person is not going to vote
for me. I don't know why. I just don't think so. I
don't want this person sitting on the jury. That's all
the reason you need.
MR. LEVEN: That's right. Under Swain v.
Alabama, a peremptory challenge can be exercised without
having to state a reason.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, our footnote in a
later case authored by Justice Scalia indicates
considerable doubt as to the viability and to the
correctness of that formulation in Swain.
MR. LEVEN: Well, with --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Salazar, I think, is
the --
MR. LEVEN: Yes, Martinez-Salazar in its
footnote 4 determined that the automatic reversal rule
in Swain was subject to reconsideration due to the
advent of harmless error analysis.
But I was citing Swain for a different
purpose. I was citing Swain for the purpose that a
peremptory challenge can be exercised without having to
state a reason, and that's a fundamental --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. No. I thought you
were citing Swain -- and I think you are going to have
to establish -- that peremptory -- to win your case,
that there is a constitutional basis, a constitutional
right to exercise a peremptory challenge, at least --
then you can you have a subset of that -- when the State
gives it to you. But I think Swain no longer stands for
that proposition.
MR. LEVEN: I wasn't citing it for that
proposition, Your Honor. We have the case of Evitts v.
Lucey, for example, where the Court was analyzing the
right to an appeal. And the Court found that the right
to an appeal was not of constitutional origin, but once
the State had created a right to an appeal it had the
obligation to administer that right consistently with
fundamental fairness and due process.
So here we have a peremptory right that the
State of Illinois wasn't obligated to create. But once
it adopted that peremptory right, it was, in effect,
adopting the long venerable tradition of peremptory
challenges that has existed in this country since the
founding.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the -- well, first,
how many peremptories does Illinois law allow?
MR. LEVEN: For non-capital cases, it's
seven, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, suppose a State
allowed only three peremptory challenges. There would
be nothing in the least unconstitutional about that,
right?
MR. LEVEN: Well, under Ross v. Oklahoma,
the State had the authority to regulate peremptory
challenges.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This was number four, was
it?
MR. LEVEN: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The challenge to Gomez
was the number four peremptory?
MR. LEVEN: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so, if the State had
only three which it could do, there would be no basis
for removing Gomez from the array. That is, the defense
would have already exercised three peremptory
challenges, she's number four, too bad. That would be
the end of it, right? She would sit on the jury.
MR. LEVEN: Well, as to our unlawful
adjudicator claim that would be correct, because if the
defense did not have a peremptory challenge to exercise
in order to strike Gomez if the peremptories have run
out --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there is something
unseemly about saying because the State is generous in
its peremptories, you have a grand constitutional
argument to make, even though there is no constitutional
right to any peremptory challenge?
MR. LEVEN: Well, the State is obligated,
consistent with due process, to provide that which is
promised. And the problem --
JUSTICE SOUTER: That goes back to the point
which you rejected when I suggested -- I suggested
earlier that you were in effect arguing that every
violation of a State statute in this criminal context
amounted to a due process violation. And you say, no,
that's not what I am arguing. It seems to me that that
is exactly what you just said to Justice Ginsburg.
MR. LEVEN: Well, what makes the peremptory
challenge unique is its venerable tradition since the
time --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, we were talking about
peremptory challenges before and we are talking about
peremptory challenges now. Have you changed your
position from -- from the position you stated in answer
to my question?
MR. LEVEN: Well, if I understand correctly,
Your Honor, the case involves peremptory challenges.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Look, the question that I
thought I was asking and I thought you were answering
was this: Do you claim that every violation of State
law in the -- we'll say in the selection of jurors -- is
automatically, if not remedied by the State, a Federal
due process violation? And you said, if I recall
correctly, no.
It seemed to me that in answering
Justice Ginsburg's question just now you were saying
yes. You said the State has to act consistently with
due process.
MR. LEVEN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So -- so, do you stand by
the answer you gave me or is it, in fact, now your
position that every violation of state law that goes
unremedied becomes a federal due process violation?
MR. LEVEN: No, I'm not saying that every
violation of State law that's unremedied --
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right. Then why does
this one become a due process violation if it's
unremedied.
MR. LEVEN: Because this one involves a
State violation that resulted in an unlawful
adjudicator. Let's take --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but that -- that then
goes back to an earlier question. It's an unlawful
adjudicator if state law says so. Federal law says you
don't even have to have peremptory challenges, you don't
even have to have a process for winnowing out the Gomez
jurors.
So, in effect, if you are saying that there
is something unlawful about the seating of the juror,
you are making a statement of State law, and the State
Supreme Court disagrees with you, which seems to me to
foreclose your argument.
MR. LEVEN: Well, the State disagreed with
our position as to the Federal automatic reversal law.
The court applied, and we would argue misapplied --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but the court -- the
Supreme Court of Illinois did not find anything unlawful
about the juror sitting. They said, yeah, the perempt
should have -- the peremptory challenge should have been
respected. But they did not say, and it seems to me
they clearly rejected the notion, that there was
something unlawful about the jury and unlawful about
that juror's participating in reaching a verdict; isn't
that correct?
MR. LEVEN: I would read the Illinois
Supreme Court opinion -- specifically what they did
state is that the trial court was incorrect in denying
the peremptory challenge, therefore that juror should
not have sat on the jury, that juror was wrongfully on
the jury.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, no. The -- the
peremptory challenge should have been respected. But
the Illinois Supreme Court did not say, as I understand
it, that by allowing the juror to sit the juror was
acting in an unlawful capacity, or that there was
something unlawful under State law about the jury's
actions and the jury's verdict.
Am I not correct about that?
MR. LEVEN: Well, the Illinois Supreme Court
only made one statement, that the peremptory was
wrongfully denied. Now, as far as elaborating on its
reasoning --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, if they thought that
tainted everything that happened afterwards, it seems to
me they would have said, therefore, the verdict is no
good.
MR. LEVEN: No, because the court misapplied
this Court's precedent in Neder. That's the basis for
the court affirming the conviction. It had nothing to
do with the issue of whether or not --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but it had everything
to do, it seems to me, with the issue of State law.
Regardless of whether they applied or misapplied a
precedent of ours respect -- with respect to Federal
constitutional law, it seems to me that the Illinois
Supreme Court has to have meant it was okay so far as
the validity of the verdict was concerned for this
person to participate.
MR. LEVEN: The Illinois Supreme Court found
that the verdict was valid because they thought that the
error was subject to harmless error review in relying on
Neder and Martinez-Salazar
JUSTICE SOUTER: So ultimately, there was --
there was no error under State law that needed to be
corrected?
MR. LEVEN: Well, there is an error in terms
of the adjudicator, Ms. Gomez, being seated on the jury
and under Rule 434 Petitioner had the right to a juror
that then was not subject to a peremptory challenge.
Gomez was -- seated on that jury.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But so far as the ultimate
jury verdict was concerned, the Illinois Supreme Court,
I understand it to have said, was there is no error that
needs to be corrected under State law.
MR. LEVEN: I don't read the opinion that
way. I read --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then why didn't they
correct it?
MR. LEVEN: Because they thought that the
error was subject to harmless error review under Federal
law. And we would argue the two positions.
JUSTICE SOUTER: You read -- in other words,
you read the -- the -- the Illinois Supreme Court as to
say, this is a violation of our statutes and
constitution, a violation that would -- would entitle
this person to have the -- the verdict set aside and a
new trial, but because the Federal practice, applying
Federal constitutional law, is to engage in harmless
error analysis, we won't correct our State law error as
a matter of State law, and -- and we will in fact apply
a harmless error analysis that otherwise wouldn't apply
because it's Federal, and on that ground we will let the
verdict stand. Is that the way you read the Illinois
Supreme Court?
MR. LEVEN: No. The court declined to
determine whether a constitutional right had been
violated, but the court applied this Court's precedent
under Martinez-Salazar and Neder, the Federal harmless
error automatically reversal law that this Court has,
and used that to find that the error was subject to
harmless error review. The court did not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but how -- how
could it do that if there were not some underlying
Federal constitutional right? I say "how could it do
that." It obvious that they did it; but what -- what
would be the principle basis for that analysis? What
would be the analytic framework that would lead it to
look to the Federal decisions? This is a State issue.
MR. LEVEN: Well, the court did not specify
why it did so, but it did rely on Neder and
Martinez-Salazar. And therefore --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we are asking you what
the analytic justification for that course of reasoning
is if that is indeed its course of reasoning.
MR. LEVEN: Well, it's hard for me to
speculate on the thinking of the Illinois Supreme Court.
But --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but you have to give
us a sustainable analytic framework if -- if we are
going to reverse their decision.
MR. LEVEN: Well, we argued at the Illinois
Supreme Court level that due process was violated; but
the Illinois Supreme Court declined to consider whether
a constitutional right had been violated, moved
accordingly to the question of whether or not automatic
reversal would apply or whether the error would be
subject to harmless error review.
But the Illinois Supreme Court did not say
anything about whether a constitutional right had been
violated except it declined to consider that issue, even
though it was argued at that level by Petitioner.
Not only do we have a constitutional basis
for this Court to have access to its automatic reversal
law; the fact that the court did rely on -- the Illinois
Supreme Court relied on Neder and Martinez-Salazar gives
this Court authority to reach the issue of whether or
not to apply automatic reversal law under -- under its
authority to correct --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Of course, the Illinois
Supreme Court was assuming a Federal violation when it
decided what the reversal rule would be. But your
Federal violation determines -- is bottomed on the
notion that there was an unlawful adjudicator on the
jury. Would that reasoning apply, in regard to one of
the earlier questions, if you have a Cook County jury
and they had a juror from Dupage County and the law says
no, you have got to have a local juror, and it turns out
that they had wrongly seated such a juror? Would that
be an unlawful adjudicator?
MR. LEVEN: Yes, it would appear so if it --
if a State law stated that, a juror qualification
requirement that the juror who presides in Cook County
must be a resident of the county.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if you --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I just have one more
thought. And if it is such an unlawful adjudicator, it
would definitely be Federal constitutional error?
MR. LEVEN: Yes, because it would implicate
the due process clause --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But would it have to
be -- would it have to be structural error? I -- I
don't know why you don't argue that it's structural
error when the error is a wrongful denial of a
peremptory challenge, because it is impossible for you
to establish the harmfulness of error because, as
Justice Scalia pointed out, a peremptory challenge is
just a hunch on your part; you don't need any more. But
if it's something like he was in Dupage County rather
than Cook County, maybe that's something where it's fair
to put the burden of showing harmfulness on the
defendant.
MR. LEVEN: Well, Your Honor, the -- the
State under Chapman would be required to prove
harmlessness, and I think it would be impossible to
determine whether this -- this error would be harmful --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, maybe that's
true. My point is that may be true with respect to a
peremptory challenge, but it doesn't seem to me to be
terribly difficult to say, well, he lives in Dupage
County and not Cook County, so what's the big deal?
MR. LEVEN: Well, under harmless error
review, the appellate court envisions the actual jury
that rendered the verdict, whether or not the error
would have rendered the verdict different had it been --
had it not occurred. And in this instance, we have a --
we can't analyze it from the perspective of whether this
jury would have rendered the same verdict absent the
error, because this jury that rendered the verdict is
illegally composed, is illegitimate.
So what the Illinois Supreme Court did in
analyzing harmless error review is it substituted its
judgment for -- for the reviewing court, it substituted
its judgment for the -- for the jury. The --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we had an actual
jury. It's not as though you had no jury verdict and
then the court would say -- the court would say, we
think that this defendant was as guilty as they come;
but you had a jury with jurors who met all the State law
qualifications, already made the determination of guilt.
So that's a little different from the case where, say, a
judge would attempt the equivalent of a directed
verdict.
MR. LEVEN: Well, in this case I don't think
we can look at it from the perspective that the Court
normally looks at it from when it reviews -- adopts
harmless error review. In the normal situation the
Court looks at whether or not the error contributed to
the verdict and whether or not the actual jury that
rendered the verdict would have rendered the same
verdict absent the error.
But we don't have -- we can't do it from the
perspective of the actual jury in this case, because the
actual jury here is illegal.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think the
Constitution prohibits the State from going further than
Batson to protect against the use of peremptory
challenges for discriminatory purposes? Specifically,
is there any reason why a State could not provide that
whenever -- that a trial judge always has the authority,
when the judge has any suspicion of discrimination, to
ask for an explanation from counsel as to the reason,
without having to establish -- without there having to
be a prima facie case?
MR. LEVEN: Well, that's our position, Your
Honor, because what the trial judge did in this case is
asked for a reason without having established any prima
facie case.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, well, that's what
Batson says has to be done to in order justify the
strike. When -- but is there any reason why a State
couldn't go further to guard against discrimination in
the use of peremptories?
MR. LEVEN: I apologize, Your Honor; I'm not
sure I understand about going further than. Under
Batson there is a three-step process, and the State must
establish a prima facie case of discrimination before
the judge is entitled to ask for any kind of
explanation; and here there wasn't any kind of gender
discrimination of any kind, according to the Illinois
Supreme Court. Therefore, the -- the judge in this case
was not authorized to even ask for an explanation. But
the explanation given by defense counsel is pretty good.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But Justice Alito's
question is could the State say as a matter of State law
whenever the trial judge has a hunch that there might
have been discriminatory purpose involved, may he refuse
to allow the preemptory challenge?
MR. LEVEN: Well, we argued that the judge
doesn't have sua sponte authority to --
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but I -- if the State
explicitly gave the trial judge that authority, would
that be constitutional?
MR. LEVEN: Well, the -- the State has the
authority to have some regulation of preemptory
challenge rights.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The authority to challenge
preemptory challenge rights entirely? Right?
MR. LEVEN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So this is not a hard
question.
MR. LEVEN: Yes, the State can abolish
peremptory challenges if it wishes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And, therefore, it could
take the much lesser step of allowing the trial judge,
if he has any suspicion that a peremptory-challenge
right is being used in violation of Batson, to disallow
it. What is wrong with that.
MR. LEVEN: In this case, though, we do have
peremptory challenges created by the State. And, Your
Honor, I request that I -- to reserve the remainder of
my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Scodro.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL A. SCODRO
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. SCODRO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
There is no due-process violation here, and
that takes care of this case at the threshold.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, does it really?
Suppose I agree with you that there is -- there is no
Federal constitutional violation. But I also think that
in assessing the consequence of a State-law violation
the Illinois court here was looking to Federal law and
was trying to apply the Federal law of harmless error.
If that's the situation, would we not have
the obligation to determine, or wouldn't we have the
obligation to determine, whether it was properly
applying the Federal law of harmless error? Even though
it didn't have to, it chose to use the Federal law of
harmless error to -- to apply to this State violation.
MR. SCODRO: Justice Scalia, the briefs
before the Illinois Supreme Court raise two independent
grounds for automatic reversal by the petitioner. One
was a pure State law for automatic reversal. The other
was a due-process violation that would then trigger a
Federal automatic reversal.
What the Illinois Supreme Court did
explicitly is to say, even if there were a due-process
violation here, we believe as a matter of Federal law
that would not trigger automatic reversal.
What certainly applied -- because of some of
the Federal questions that they have suggested, what is
implied is that if the Court had believed that as a
matter of Illinois law there were an automatic-reversal
rule required, that this was an unlawful juror to the
extended so profound that it voided the judgment and
required a new trial, under those circumstances the
court would never have had to reach that assumption,
much less go into any of the analysis it did.
So here the court was faced with both
claims, rejected both, but to reach the Federal claim
they must first show a due-process violation. And
that's what they failed to do here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your answer to
Justice Scalia's question is what?
MR. SCODRO: The answer, Your Honor, is that
if the court had said, we are going to lockstep our
Federal -- or, rather, our State harmless-error analysis
with the Federal question, Federal analysis, and
whatever they say goes, then I would agree under those
circumstances this Court could review that and say, you
got that wrong.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what case would
you cite for that proposition? And you can't say
Michigan versus Long.
MR. SCODRO: I can't say Michigan versus
Long. That is an excellent question, Your Honor. I
mean I think that -- let me -- let me --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why did they get it
wrong?
MR. SCODRO: I'm sorry, Your Honor?
JUSTICE BREYER: Why do you say they got it
wrong?
MR. SCODRO: Oh, I don't think they did. I
would --
JUSTICE BREYER: Does that mean even if it
were Federal? I don't know. I'm asking. Again, I
don't know.
MR. SCODRO: We think they analyzed it
absolutely correctly, as a matter of fact.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Isn't this Johnson versus
Standard Oil and that sort of thing?
MR. SCODRO: Well, I think -- I should say
if the court -- if the -- if the Illinois court wanted
to back away from Federal law at this point, they could
absolutely do so. And so even if this Court were to
say, you got it wrong federally, they could, of course,
at that point say, no, we -- as a matter of State law,
we are going to apply a Brack standard or a Chapman
standard.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that clear as a matter
-- I don't know. Again, I'm asking. Is it clear as a
matter of Federal law that we have lots of Federal
trials, and in a Federal trial where a district judge
makes an error in excusing a juror -- he shouldn't have
excused the juror, there are many, many reasons for
doing it, so the jury is not properly as the defense
lawyer has the right to have it -- that that requires
automatically a new trial? Is that clear as a matter of
Federal law or not? And I --
MR. SCODRO: That is not --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know the answer.
MR. SCODRO: It is not clear, Your Honor.
In response to an earlier question they cited Gomez.
And they -- and there is a line of cases including Gomez
that are cited in their brief. Those are Federal
supervisory authority cases in which the Court said not
as a matter of due process interpreting the Federal
statute -- in that case the Magistrate's act -- to
conclude that --
JUSTICE BREYER: I am not talking about
Magistrates, and I'm not talking about due process. I
am asking the question, just what I asked. Now, you
heard what I asked. It's about jurors.
MR. SCODRO: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right? What is the
answer?
MR. SCODRO: It is not -- that is not a due-
process violation.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know. I'm not asking
that question. I am asking when a lawyer -- when a --
when a judge makes a mistake and excuses a juror whom he
shouldn't have excused because he thought the juror was
prejudiced, let's say, and he wasn't. The appeals court
says, you are wrong about excusing him. Does under
Federal law the defendant become entitled to a new
trial? Not under the Constitution, under whatever you
want.
MR. SCODRO: I don't believe --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes or no?
MR. SCODRO: I don't believe so, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: You think the answer is no,
okay.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Going back to
Justice Scalia's question, do you think we would have
jurisdiction of this certiorari condition if we were
convinced there was no Federal or constitutional error;
they were merely trying to decide whether the State
court applied the correct constitutional standard in
correcting what it thought was a correct federal
constitutional error?
MR. SCODRO: I don't, Your Honor. I think
the Federal question, if there is one presented, is
whether or not there is a Federal due-process violation.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And if there is none
there, we don't have jurisdiction to answer and give an
advisory opinion on how the Illinois Supreme Court
should run its shop.
MR. SCODRO: That is correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So the Illinois Supreme
Court can happily go along blaming everything on us, so
when it stands for reelection, it can say, well, we are
just applying Federal law.
MR. SCODRO: Your Honor, I think in this
case what the Illinois Supreme Court did is they
concluded --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I know, but that's the
consequence of your answer to that question. It seems
to me there is much to be said for the disposition that
where a State court even in resolving a State-law
question uses a Federal principle, adverts specifically
to Federal law and cites Federal cases, it would cover
you.
MR. SCODRO: Your Honor, let me be clear.
What they did here is they had assumed the Federal
constitutional violation because they recognized that
there was no State entitlement to a new trial under
these circumstances. So they then said, well --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You -- they did make that
assumption, but you think the assumption is wrong. And
if we think the assumption is wrong, you would agree
with Justice Scalia that we can go ahead and say, well,
you are running for reelection, so we are going to
correct your errors on Federal law.
MR. SCODRO: I would say, Your Honor, I
think that if the Court were to conclude there is no
due-process violation, it would be an artificial
exercise to then embark on an analysis of a -- harmless
errors.
This Court has said time and again that
there is a close link between the alleged due-process or
Sixth Amendment violation and the manner in which the
due process -- the harmless-error analysis is conducted.
In Gonzales/Lopez that was the gist of much
of the debate between the majority of the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would certainly agree
that if the only reason the Illinois Supreme Court used
the Federal harmless-error rule was because it was
assuming a Federal constitutional violation, once we
reject that assumption, the whole thing drops out. But
is that entirely clear from the opinion?
MR. SCODRO: I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it clear that the
Illinois Supreme Court wouldn't have used the same test
under simply Illinois law?
MR. SCODRO: Well, two points, Your Honor.
First, in context with the briefs which independently
sought both State and Federal remand and page 171 of the
joint appendix where the court makes clear that we are
simply not going to resolve the question of whether
there is a Federal due-process violation, I think in
context it does become clear what the court has done
here is it certainly concluded there is not a State
right.
So it proceeded to say, well, what if there
is a Federal due-process entitlement? If that is the
case, let's proceed and decide, well, it's harmless
anyway. We don't need to then reverse this conviction.
Now, I will say that if the Court harbors
concerns -- if the Court were to conclude there is no
due-process violation here, but harbors concerns that
the Illinois Supreme Court feels itself duty bound to
follow this Court's jurisprudence on the question of
harmlessness, then at that point the Court could simply
make a due-process ruling and remand to allow the
Illinois Supreme Court to make clear what I think is
already clear -- but to make crystal clear that they
would apply a -- a harmless-error standard to this sort
-- this sort of declaration.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The problem is the -- the
only reason the Illinois Supreme Court found: That
there was no error of constitutional dimension, meaning
Federal constitutional dimension. The only reason it --
it found that is because it found that the error was
harmless beyond a reasonable doubt.
MR. SCODRO: Your Honor, I think that what
they have done is they just put the statement --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It is the cart before the
horse.
MR. SCODRO: They have run the analysis, and
what they have done, Your Honor, is said, look, any
error here of constitutional dimension would be
harmless. Therefore, we inform the reader on page 171
we simply haven't reached the question. Please don't
read the foregoing analysis to suggest that we have made
a prior conclusion that there is indeed a due-process
violation here.
Indeed, the court suggests there probably
isn't by early arguments that you are pointing out that
this Court has long held since -- since Hilt in 1919 has
long held that there is no due-process entitlement to a
peremptory challenge. So I think in context it is quite
clear that what the Court has done is to say, there is
nothing in here for you under Illinois law. Under
Federal law, even if there were a due-process violation,
it is simply not -- it is simply harmless error.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then -- then you would
have no objection to a remand that says, Illinois
Supreme Court, you can't blame it on Federal law. It's
up to you as a matter of State law. And now answer the
question that you didn't answer; that is, what is the
consequence under State law of an erroneous denial of a
peremptory? You would have no objection to such a
remand?
MR. SCODRO: Your Honor, we would have no
objection to that procedure, but I would caution that it
seems unnecessary in light of the fact that the parties
so sought relief under both State and Federal law and
the fact that the supreme court -- the Illinois Supreme
Court concludes it doesn't need to reach -- the way it
analyzes the -- the constitutional question.
I think that -- and this underlying
assumption that judges understand, I think it's fair to
assume that the Illinois justices understood they could
go further as a matter of State law than Federal, but
not -- they couldn't provide fewer protections.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: For the reasons that have
been discussed, it may be that we won't get to the
merits of the Petitioner's argument, but assuming we do,
the Petitioner talks about the -- I don't have -- the
"unlawfully constituted jury." Is -- is -- what is the
extinction distinction between the hypothetical case of
the juror who isn't a resident of the county and the
State says you have to be a resident of the county --
what is the distinction between that and, say, a
non-Article III judge sitting on a court of appeals
panel? Why is one structural and the other not?
MR. SCODRO: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And this would -- this
would be a little different than the juror who might be
biased or might not be biased, because this goes to a
hard qualification. It's just a hypothetical in the
case, but it's a -- it's a linchpin to the Petitioner's
argument.
MR. SCODRO: I should begin by saying that
the Gomez and Wingo and Nguyen decisions and others they
cite in that line for the non-Article III judge
proposition are themselves not due process decisions,
but are conclusions as a matter of State -- of Federal
law, rather, the idea being that Congress simply hadn't
delegated the authority properly in those cases. They
are not due process cases.
But if one were to assume that those would
also be due process violations, to have a non-Article II
judge sit, I would distinguish those cases at that point
hypothetically by saying there is a profound, profound
difference between someone who lacks any and all mantle
of state authority, on the one hand, and a juror who is
properly sworn and who satisfies all the statutory
requirements for sitting as a matter of Illinois law.
And I should note, in the reply brief
there's a point at which they contend --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well -- but the
hypothetical is it doesn't -- the juror doesn't satisfy
the requirement because he or she is from the wrong
county.
MR. SCODRO: Again, Your Honor, the
fundamental -- the lodestar analysis here in the due
process appeal -- in Buford, the Court said it did not
define it with precision, but it has always been
fundamental fairness, a community sense of fair play and
decency.
It seems to me that, as you move into a
judge with absolutely no mantle of State authority or --
and -- whatsoever, versus a juror who is properly sworn,
properly instructed, but who nevertheless sits from a
different neighboring jurisdiction -- and I should note
that in Cook County there are three jury jurisdictions,
so the errors could be legion just within Cook County in
terms of being from the wrong part of the county. It
seems to me that that sort of error simply doesn't come
anywhere close to the fundamental fairness --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well -- but how do
you -- there is no way to tell. I mean, presumably the
State has a reason for restricting the jury pool to the
neighborhood, and that type of limitation does go back
to Blackstone, the vicinage of the crime. So -- and the
there's no way to tell. There's no way to tell whether
the juror from DuPage County is going to have a
different view of a different perspective or affected it
in a -- or that it affected the verdict in a particular
case.
MR. SCODRO: This is true, Your Honor, but
in those contexts, the very State law that has created
those divisions, for whatever reason they have seen fit
to do so, is the proper authority to conclude whether or
not the error is so profound by having that person sit
that it ought not be a violation of due process -- that
it ought to be a void judgment. That's how these
Federal cases, Gomez and others --
JUSTICE BREYER: Did -- that's exactly what
I can't figure out. I'm trying -- forget due process.
All right? Keep that out of your mind. We have
approximately 50 State jurisdictions, the District of
Columbia, and a bunch of Federal jurisdictions. All
right? In those jurisdictions, to your knowledge -- you
may not know this, you may not have looked it up -- but
what happens in the situation where a juror -- where a
juror should have been excused? I guess there's a new
trial. The juror should have been excused, but wasn't.
I guess there's a new trial normally; is that right?
MR. SCODRO: If the juror is biased, yes,
but not if the juror is unbiased --
JUSTICE BREYER: If the juror is biased.
Yes. Okay.
Now suppose it's the defendant who wanted
the juror and he was wrongly excused. All right? So
that's what the appeals court holds. What's the rule?
Again, do they go back and look and see if it's biased?
If the juror -- if the defendant didn't get the juror he
wanted, somebody else took his place, do they look to
see if that person was biased? And if not, say, too
bad, defendant, you may have been right, but you lost
the jury that you want, no remedy? What happens?
MR. SCODRO: It's my understanding -- I
don't believe -- I don't have cases to cite on that --
but I don't believe there would be a remedy because this
Court has said time and again that the preemptory right
and those surrounding it do not create a right to any
particular jury.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, at least in the case of
where he failed to get a preemptory, whether it's
Federal or whether it's State, the Federal law and most
State law is: You lost your right to a preemptory, one
of them. You should have had it, but you are out of
luck, if -- if the juror who replaced the replacement,
the juror who was there, you know, who otherwise
wouldn't have been is a fair juror.
MR. SCODRO: Your Honor, I thought you were
asking what happens if a particular juror the defendant
wanted did not sit, and under those circumstances, I
would say that because this Court has held --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what about the last
hypothetical?
MR. SCODRO: If you question -- that
indicates really the split in this case, Your Honor, and
the indirect split that was -- all of which was laid out
in the cert petition. There is -- there is
disagreement, but we would note that much of the
disagreement -- some of it -- is true Martinez-Salazar,
footnote 4 with its remarks about Swain. Some of it is
Federal, and therefore you don't have the same concern
about a threshold due process violation.
I will say, to answer your original question
as well about jurors who should not have sat but are not
deemed biased, Illinois certainly has a history of cases
to that effect, and the court -- the Illinois court has
handled them as a matter of Illinois law. The case in
1986, an alien sat, and the court concluded there was no
timely objection that was part of this analysis, but it
certainly was not a "nullity," in the court's words,
under those circumstances.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What was that case?
MR. SCODRO: This is not cited in the
briefs, so I'm only citing it in response to a question.
It's a case called Chase from the Illinois Supreme Court
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, Illinois --
MR. SCODRO: -- in 1886. And it's a case in
which an alien sat on the jury, and there was, I
believe, as part of the court's analysis a failure to
make a contemporaneous objection, but they said it was
not a "nullity," to use the court's words, to seat this
improper juror and, again, made as a determination of
Illinois law, just as the question here as to what
remedy should be in effect is purely a question of
Illinois law.
Again, they have simply failed to establish
a due process violation. This Court has said time and
again there is no due process entitlement to peremptory
challenges. Much of what we accept as given these days
depends, hinges, upon that presumption, including the
Baston line, as the concurrence in Miller-El pointed out
in 2005, numerous restrictions on peremptories that have
been upheld since the 19th century, which are laid out
in the government's brief. And then, indeed, the
remarkable variety amongst States, which has been
touched upon today, where States -- State by State --
provide very different numbers of peremptory challenges,
and they provide very different limits thereon as well.
JUSTICE ALITO: If the judge who sat on a
State trial was not authorized under State law to hear
that particular matter, would that be a due process
violation?
MR. SCODRO: I think the answer to that is
no, Your Honor. And indeed, as we point out in our
brief, Cook County has several substantive divisions, so
that, for example, a criminal law division judge is not
authorized to sit on a family law matter, for example.
And yet Illinois law has made clear that if there's an
error, if you go to the wrong court and that is unlikely
to happen in the scenario I put forth, but it could
easily happen between law and chancery for example, and
does indeed happen. If that were be the case, the --
any error in going to the wrong court and having the
wrong court resolve your issue does not void the
judgment as a matter of law. And I certainly don't
think that would implicate due process concerns.
If the Court has no further questions, we
would ask that you affirm the judgment below.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Roberts?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Federal law does not require automatic
reversal of a conviction because the denial of a
peremptory challenge at most violated only his State law
rights. And even if his Federal constitutional rights
had been violated, harmless error review would apply.
The Constitution does not give criminal defendants the
right to peremptory challenges; therefore, a -- the
right of a State defendant like Petitioner to exercise
peremptory challenges derives entirely from State law,
and when erroneous denial of a preemptory challenge
deprives him only of State law right, and when the State
law rights alone have been violated, State law not
federal law dictates whether harmless error review
applies. The violation of a State law right doesn't
rise to a due process -- federal due process violation
unless it deprives the defendant of a fair trial.
And this Court has repeatedly held
that States can withhold preemptory challenges entirely
without impairing the right to an impartial jury or a
fair trial. It, therefore, follows that the erroneous
denial of a single preemptory challenge does not render
a trial fundamentally unfair.
JUSTICE ALITO: What if it's not a single
challenge. What if, let's say, each side has six, and
the trial judge just arbitrarily refuses to allow a
defendant to exercise any preemptory challenge, but the
jury -- the jury is ultimately selected, there is no
reason to think it's not a fair jury?
MR. ROBERTS: We'd still thing that that
would not be a federal constitutional violation, and
even if it were some kind of a federal violation, that
it would be subject to review for harmlessness. If the
trial court could violate due process, if its actions so
skewed the balance of power over the selection of the
jury in favor of the government that it resulted in a
fundamentally unfair trial, but even the denial of
multiple preemptory challenges wouldn't rise to that
level.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Suppose the Illinois had a
statute that the prosecution gets 10 peremptories and
the defendants get one, would that raise a federal
question?
MR. ROBERTS: The question there would be
whether that so skewed -- the test that I said before.
I think the question would be that that's so skewed
about --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't the answer pretty
clear that that would be unfair.
MR. ROBERTS: I don't -- I don't think that
the answer is clear at all. The State might rationally
conclude that because the government has to prove its
case beyond a reasonable doubt, because it has to
convince the jurors unanimously to rule in its favor and
because it has no right to appeal an unfavorable
determination by the jury, that the prosecution should
be entitled to more preemptory challenges. Of course,
this case doesn't --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I will use that as an
examination question but let's hope it doesn't come up.
MR. ROBERTS: It's unlikely to, but --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what about the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The reason it's unlikely
is it is so clearly unconstitutional.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, we don't think it's
unconstitutional at all, Your Honor, but it is contrary
to what the common practice and the way things have been
approached in both the federal and State court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Roberts, if you do
get to harmless error, how do you deal with the question
that was raised by the Chief Justice, that is, there is
no way in the world that you can tell whether this was
harmless or not? You would have to imagine another
juror being on the panel, that juror could have swung
the case, could have had no influence, there is just no
way of knowing what would happen.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think that rests on
the mistaken premise that harmless error now just turns
on the predilections of the particular decisionmaker or
on speculation about what one particular juror would
have done differently than another. In fact, harmless
error -- the harmless error inquiry looks at the
hypothetical objective rational juror. And so, that's
what you look at and the difference between --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but maybe --
maybe you have an -- you know, the irrational juror.
You know, the holdout is not going to convict for any
reason.
MR. ROBERTS: But -- but that is not an
appropriate part of -- of a harmless error analysis just
like the fact that the jury might engage in
nullification is an appropriate part of the harmless
element.
If -- in Strickland, which is the best case,
I think, to explain how that is irrelevant to the
inquiry, even though it's part of the constitutional
there -- analysis there, the Court very clearly explains
that you don't look at the particular decisionmaker, you
don't speculate about nullification and about arbitrary
action and the like, it sort of transferable over.
That's just not an appropriate part -- analysis.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, even assuming
your premise, isn't it pretty difficult to know what a
rational juror would have done?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, we think that the
correct inquiry in this circumstance, given the nature
of the right, is to ask whether the error resulted in
the seating of a juror that was not impartial. And then
you look at the record in the case, the voir dire
record, and make that determination, and the government
bears the -- bears the burden of proof.
So we don't think that that would be
difficult to do, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But that is almost the
same, at least in some states, as getting a new trial
anyway. If we find out after the fact that the jury was
biased, and in some States that's a reason for a new
trial in the discretion of the trial court, anyway.
MR. ROBERTS: That -- that -- that could be,
but --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The point is you are not
giving much substance to the rule.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think we are
respecting its fundamental -- its fundamental purpose,
Your Honor, which is to assist to help achieve the goal
of selecting an impartial juror.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the law there?
That's what I am trying to get at. I mean, my initial
instinct would be that if a defendant doesn't get the
jury that the law entitles him to, that's an error. And
you normally would think it was harmful, because you
can't say, in honesty, it was harmless, it's the jury
that's supposed to decide. I suspect it would work out
that way. I have never looked into it. How has it
worked out?
MR. ROBERTS: Generally for errors like the
error you described before, where the judge
erroneously -- mistakenly excuses a juror in the belief
that the juror is disqualified for cause, where the
judge mistakenly substitutes a qualified alternate for
one of the jurors, or the judge places one alternate on
the jury instead of another, the courts have generally
looked at that for harmlessness and has not required
automatic reversal.
Indeed, even in the case of jurors that
don't satisfy --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So in other
words, they have often said you don't get a new trial?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MR. ROBERTS: Yes. And even in the case of
jurors that don't meet the statutory requirements in the
federal courts of appeals have held that unless a biased
juror sits, a new trial is not required.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But don't some of those
courts, rather than focusing on the qualifications of
the particular juror, look to the -- how close the case
was?
MR. ROBERTS: The harmless error analysis,
there are sort of a lot of different scenarios of types
of violations, and the standard that they use is not
clear in all of them. In the ones that -- the cases
that I found that involve the seating of jurors that
don't meet the federal statutory requirements, usually
they involve felons that didn't reveal that they were
felons, the courts have looked to the biased juror
standard.
Some courts have done that, others have
looked to whether it affects the verdict. They haven't
been exactly clear how you determine that, but --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's because there
is no way to tell.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I -- I think that --
that even if you had a standard that said to look to
whether there was an effect on the verdict, you can tell
precisely the way the Illinois Supreme Court applied
Neder here, if no rational jury could have acquitted,
then you know the substitution of one rational,
impartial juror for another didn't have an effect on the
outcome. And that doesn't violate the Sixth Amendment
to do that, Your Honor, because the underlying right --
the underlying error doesn't violate the Sixth
Amendment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But a jury is a
fundamental protection of individual liberty, and in
your analysis you are having a judge decide what the
jury would --
MR. ROBERTS: No, Your Honor. As
Justice Ginsburg pointed out before, the Petitioner here
got a determination of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt
on every element of the offense from a fair and
impartial jury that was properly instructed. So we are
not having a judge substitute that at all.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The judge is making
a determination that a juror that should have been
sitting would act like the juror who was sitting
instead.
MR. ROBERTS: That is true. But the Sixth
Amendment doesn't give the defendant the right to any
particular jury, it doesn't give the defendant the right
to a jury that has been selected in compliance with
every jot and frivolous State law. And therefore, if
the underlying error, as the underlying error here where
you get a denial of preemptory, where a juror is seated
that even though that violated state law, assumably
here, that -- that that doesn't amount to a Sixth
Amendment violation.
And if the defendant got his Sixth Amendment
rights at trial, then the way you conduct harmless error
review can't violate his Sixth Amendment rights. He
already got them. And so it can be done and it doesn't
violate the Sixth Amendment.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: There are any number of
alternatives that we can adopt in ruling for your
position. If we were to rule for your position, what do
you think is the most straightforward rationale?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I -- we would obviously
like to have sort of alternative rulings that do both,
but I think the most logical way to approach the case is
to decide whether there was a violation of the
Constitution here, and because there wasn't one, to say
that State law governs the harmless error analysis.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Leven, you have two minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES K. LEVEN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. LEVEN: Your Honor, the Hicks v.
Oklahoma case is a very important case as far as the due
process right to a unlawful adjudicator, because there
we had an unlawful sentencer. So, I would ask that the
Court consider that, that's a State case involving an
unlawful adjudicator. So we do have a due process
violation under that case.
As to the Sixth Amendment issue, the
Illinois Supreme Court did act inconsistently with the
Sixth Amendment as far as its manner of conducting
harmless error review, because harmless error review is
impossible to conduct in this situation, because in
order to do that, we would have to examine what the
particular jury would have done had it not been for the
error; and the particular jury in this case must be out,
because there the particular jury, the panel as a whole,
is illegally constituted, and the -- and it's impossible
to conduct your harmless error analysis.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why is that any harder than
harmless error analysis that is conducted all the time?
For example evidence is erroneously excluded from the
trial, and you ask was that a harmless error? But you
have to -- there has to be speculation about how this
jury would have received the additional evidence. What
-- what's the difference?
MR. LEVEN: Because in that situation, we
are looking at what the particular jury, how a
particular jury in that case would have resolved the
matter had the erroneously admitted evidence not been
admitted.
JUSTICE ALITO: But the court has no -- has
no inside information about the dynamics of that
particular jury. It's just -- it's deciding what a
rational jury would do, what a -- what a standard jury
would do.
MR. LEVEN: Whether that particular jury
would have reached the same verdict, which we can't do
in this case.
JUSTICE ALITO: No. But how does the Court
know anything particular about the jury when it conducts
that harmless error analysis? It doesn't.
MR. LEVEN: It probably could look at the
record as a whole to determine whether or not the -- the
particular jury that rendered the verdict would have
done the same thing had the erroneously admitted
evidence not -- not been -- not been introduced.
And in this case, we have a very different
situation. We have an illegal adjudicator, and we can't
determine whether that adjudicator would have resolved
the case differently had it not been -- it's impossible
to assess because of the -- the particular adjudicator
that resolved this case, in the present case, was
illegally composed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:05 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
54:25 ALITO 23:13 answering 14:3 2:2,10 3:4,6 automatically
53:12,24 54:7 anyway 33:18 13:5 15:11 18:23 29:9
37:24 alleged 32:16 apologize 24:7 43:13 52:17 27:4
53:2 25:13 49:20 asked 23:25 back 13:10 15:2
alternatives 1:14 29:2,23 30:5,6 balance 45:2
Amendment 22:6 assess 54:19 basis 9:2,5 11:5
5:19,20 52:2,4 53:1,3 17:2 18:21 Assistant 1:19 Baston 42:8
8:10,24 amicus 1:21 2:8 27:1 30:24 assumably Batson 23:15
14:25 43:15 50:18 51:22 24:3,9 25:15
17:16 amount 51:23 applies 44:7 assume 35:24 bears 48:3,3
21:5 amounted 13:14 apply 4:4 18:14 37:3 began 7:2
54:16 analysis 10:22 18:15 19:25 assumed 31:25 behalf 1:15,18
18:13,15 19:5 20:11,18 26:9 assuming 20:14 1:21 2:4,6,8,12
32:13,18 34:15 34:3 43:23 47:19 43:14 52:18
41:10,21 47:7 26:13 31:13 32:5,5,6,25 believe 26:24
54:13 51:3 52:14 approached attempt 22:25 40:2 41:21
30:2,17 31:6 20:5 24:22 15:13 19:24 big 22:4
52:20,23,25 21:25 25:21,25 conceded 3:25 7:7 11:5,5,14
8:12 28:4 40:1 41:6 50:4 circumstance conclude 29:20 34:17 35:21
29:1 category 3:23 47:23 32:11 33:20 43:22 44:23
30:1 cause 4:1 7:9 9:6 circumstances 38:21 45:19 47:13
9:18 49:6 27:7,21 32:3 concluded 31:16 contacts 9:9
40:6 caution 35:16 40:16 41:12 33:13 41:9 contemporane...
48:19 century 42:10 cite 27:24 36:22 concludes 35:20 41:22
cert 40:23 40:1 conclusion contend 37:12
42:11,22 41:6,11 43:7 citing 10:23,24 concurrence contrary 46:8
41:15 challenge 3:11 citizenship 6:16 condition 30:21 23:6
11:6 12:13,24 claims 27:11 53:13 43:20
15:18 clause 21:8 conducting 53:3 convince 45:21
challenges 11:22 46:6 47:14 considerable 30:24,25 31:9
11:4,11 12:4,9,20 close 32:16 38:7 10:14 32:9 47:23
22:24 13:21,22 14:1 49:24 consistent 13:8 corrected 17:14
15:4 23:16 Columbia 39:5 consistently 17:23
25:11,18 42:6 come 22:21 38:6 11:16 14:11 correcting 30:25
26:3 42:14 43:25 46:2 constituted 4:12 correctly 13:25
29:19 44:2,11 45:5 common 7:18 4:13,17 5:18 14:8 28:15
33:17 45:24 46:9 5:24 36:6 correctness
38:17 chancery 43:3 community 53:10 10:15
41:8 changed 13:22 37:21 constitution 6:2 counsel 23:20
Chapman 21:22 compliance 8:4,16 18:9 24:16 25:21
45:20,25 28:24 51:18 23:14 30:12 43:11 52:15
47:11 Chase 41:16 components 5:2 43:24 52:13 54:22
49:12,18 Chicago 1:15,17 composed 22:13 constitutional counsel's 9:15
21:1
9:15 12:18,24 dire 8:20 48:1 27:12 31:4
36:8,9 create 10:2 define 37:20 disagreed 15:12 33:16,21,25
38:3,4,5 11:19 40:4 definitely 21:6 disagreement 34:21 35:1,5
42:22 created 11:15 delegated 37:1 40:24,25 Dupage 20:20
28:22 crime 38:12 Delores 3:11 disallow 25:15 38:14
criminal 5:12 denial 3:12 discretion 48:10 duty 33:22
4:19,25 43:24 43:20 44:3,14 23:19 24:5,10 D.C 1:8,21
8:1,20 9:14 critical 8:11 45:4 51:21 24:13
15:10 crystal 34:2 denied 4:24 discriminatory E
curiae 1:22 2:9 16:15 23:16 24:20 E 2:1 3:1,1
43:15 denying 4:7 16:1 discussed 7:12 earlier 13:12
17:5,8 Department 7:14 36:3 15:2 20:19
18:7,18 D 1:20 dismissed 4:1
43:13 depends 42:7 31:19
22:6,14 deal 9:12 22:4 derives 44:2 49:6
described 49:4 distinction 36:7 5:10 6:17
24:14 debate 32:20 determination 36:10
13:12
decide 8:10 45:23 48:2 district 29:4 50:17,21
28:19,19 30:23 33:17 51:7,12 39:4 elaborating
29:17 48:25 51:3 determine 3:20 division 42:23
31:7
18:20 21:24 divisions 38:20 element 47:10
decided 20:15 26:11,12 50:12 42:22
decision 19:19 determined doubt 10:14
46:21 47:15 determines 51:7
37:19 19:7 36:21,23 dictates 44:6 due 5:9,13,21 entitle 18:9
40:3,17 declaration 34:4 difference 37:7 10:21 11:17 entitled 24:11
declined 18:19 47:1 53:18 13:8,14 14:7 30:11 45:24
43:1,5,6,9 19:22 20:4 different 4:2 14:12,17,21 entitlement 32:2
44:10 deemed 41:6 10:23 22:8,24 19:21 21:8 33:16 35:1
46:10 defendant 21:20 36:15 38:2,15 29:18,22 30:3 42:5
48:10 22:21 30:11 38:15 42:14,15 32:18 36:23 entitles 48:22
52:23 39:16,20,23 50:2 54:15 37:2,4,18 envisions 22:6
54:7 40:15 44:1,9 differently 38:23 39:2 equating 3:22
50:8 51:16,17,25 difficult 22:3 43:8 44:8,8 equivalent
defendants 47:20 48:5 45:1 52:20,24 22:25
44:3,13 43:3 53:14 far 16:15 17:5 10:20 41:1 give 19:17 31:6
53:14,22 excluded 53:14 53:3 foregoing 34:20 given 24:16 42:6
excuse 5:3 favor 45:3,21 forget 39:2 47:23
4:13 6:12 30:8 39:9,10 federal 5:2,13 10:15 giving 7:6 48:14
17:10,10 39:17 6:2,11 7:9 8:4 forth 7:8 8:9 go 24:5 27:9
excuses 7:22 8:15 14:6,17 43:2 31:11 32:7
30:7 49:5 15:3,13 17:3 for-cause 9:3 35:25 38:11
excusing 8:14 18:4,11,12,16 found 11:13 39:19 43:1
20:1 29:5 30:10 18:22 19:3,7 17:8 34:6,9,9 goal 48:17
exercise 11:6 20:14,16 21:6 50:5 goes 6:17 13:10
22:5 12:24 32:13 26:6,8,9,13,14 founding 11:23 14:16 15:2
44:1,19 26:21,24 27:2 four 12:10,14,20 27:20 36:16
26:9 exercised 3:10 27:11,18,19,19 framework 19:6 going 7:1 10:5
29:5 10:10,25 12:19 28:12,20 29:3 19:18 11:3 19:19
31:1 existed 11:22 29:3,4,10,16 frivolous 51:19 23:14 24:8
35:6 explain 47:12 29:18 30:11,22 full 4:21 27:17 28:24
43:1,5 explains 47:14 30:25 31:3,4 fun 9:24 30:19 32:8
44:6 explanation 31:13,21,22,22 fundamental 33:10 38:14
23:20 24:12,15 31:25 32:9,23 11:1,17 37:18 43:5 47:4
48:22 24:16 32:24 33:8,11 37:21 38:7 Gomez 3:11,13
50:1,24 explicitly 24:25 33:16 34:8 48:16,16 51:2 5:3 8:8 9:4,8
52:1 26:23 35:5,9,18,25 fundamentally 9:15 12:13,18
53:4,4,8 extended 27:6 36:24 38:25 44:15 45:4 12:25 15:5
extensive 9:9 39:5 40:8,8 further 23:14 17:16,19 29:14
extinction 36:7 41:2 43:19,22 24:5,8 35:25 29:15 36:21
49:3 F 45:9 46:10 Gonzales/Lopez
facie 23:22 24:1 federally 28:22 G 3:1 good 9:20,25
23:21 fact 14:15 18:14 felons 50:7,8 general 1:17,20 government
42:3 20:8 28:15 fewer 36:1 8:20 45:3,19 48:2
47:8 48:8 find 15:16 18:24 generous 13:3 42:11
54:14 42:3 finding 4:9 Ginsburg 3:21 grand 13:4
39:1 21:18 35:23 33:7 12:13,16 13:2 guard 24:5
37:21 40:13 fit 38:20 13:16 22:18 guess 39:9,11
51:8 focusing 49:23 51:6 guilty 5:19
honesty 48:24 22:14 24:13 47:13,23 27:6 38:24
12:2,15 14:1 31:7,10,15 22:9 30:21 31:6
27:16 28:2,6 35:4,8,19,24 51:9 38:3 39:4,5,6
31:2,14,24 41:16,18,25 29:18 33:23
37:17 38:18 imagine 46:15 intrusion 7:9 5:3 6:7 7:17,20
46:8 48:5,17 impartial 8:22 50:5,7 16:2,3,8,8
18:4,12 52:19 47:25 48:18 24:20 20:22,25 21:1
hope 46:2 50:21 51:9 involves 14:1,23 27:5 29:5,6
22:5,15 horse 34:14 implicate 21:7 involving 52:23 30:7,8 36:8,15
26:9,13 Hospital 9:10 43:8 irrational 47:3 37:8,14,25
32:13 hunch 21:16 implied 27:3 irrelevant 47:12 38:14 39:8,9
34:10,18 24:19 important 52:20 irrespective 39:10,12,13,14
43:23 hypothetical impossible 3:20 4:14 39:17,20,20
46:12,15 36:7,17 37:14 21:13,23 53:5 issue 5:2 16:24 40:11,12,13,15
40:19 46:25 53:10 54:18 17:1 19:7 20:4 41:24 46:16,16
48:24 hypothetically improper 41:24 20:10 43:6 46:22,25 47:3
52:1,14 37:6 improperly 4:12 53:1 47:21,25 48:18
5:24 49:5,6,21,24
54:9
33:24 II 37:4 inconsistently 2:11 3:6 52:17 jurors 6:20 8:18
49:10 III 36:11,22 53:2 Johnson 28:16 14:5 15:6
32:18,23 illegal 23:12 independent jot 51:19 41:5 45:21
54:16 3:16 26:17 judge 3:22 4:2,6 49:8,12,19
34:25 54:21 40:21 24:19,22,25 jury 3:13 4:10
40:17 illegitimate indirect 40:22 25:13 29:4 4:11,13,17
49:20 22:13 individual 51:2 30:7 36:11,22 5:17,19,23 6:1
16:3,4 36:2,14 37:13 laid 40:22 42:10 10:1,9,16,19 lot 50:2
39:1,14 law 4:18,20,25 11:10 12:1,7 lots 29:3
22:6
41:13 5:2,2,11,13,23 12:12,15,22 Lucey 11:12
42:16 8:15,21 11:25 13:7,17,25 luck 40:11
23:7
44:16 14:5,16,19 14:13,18,23
29:7 45:7,15 46:1,4 15:3,3,9,13 15:12,24 16:13 M
38:3,10 46:5,11,13 16:10 17:1,4 16:21 17:8,15 magistrate 8:19
40:5 47:2,19 48:6 17:13,23 18:5 17:24 18:3,19 Magistrates
44:12,20 48:13,19 49:14 18:12,13,14,23 19:8,14,20 29:22
45:3 49:17,22 50:13 20:8,11,20,25 20:24 21:7,21 Magistrate's
47:8 51:1,6,11 52:5 22:22 24:18 22:5 23:2,23 29:19
52:15 53:12,24 26:8,9,13,14 24:7,22 25:2,7 majority 32:20
50:19 54:7,22 26:19,24 27:4 25:10,17 52:16 making 15:9
justices 35:24 28:20,23 29:3 52:17,19 53:19
54:1,2,2 19:12 31:13,22 32:9 liberty 51:2
4:15 5:5 K 1:15 2:3,11 38:19 40:8,9 linchpin 36:18
17:11
6:3,4
52:17 41:8,25 42:2 line 6:8 29:15 18:22 19:10
7:2,6 Keep 39:3 42:17,23,24,25 36:22 42:8 20:9 40:25
8:12 9:1 KENNEDY 6:3 43:3,7,19,21 link 32:16 matter 1:11 4:2
6:24 7:6 10:12 44:2,4,5,5,6,7 little 22:24
24:18
11:2 48:19,22 51:19 36:15 26:24 27:4
12:3 19:1,11,17 51:22 52:14 lives 22:3
29:1
28:16 lawful 5:3 8:10 local 20:21 29:3,9,18
36:2,14 37:13 8:24 lockstep 27:17
36:24
46:1 lawfully 3:10 lodestar 37:18 37:10 41:8
16:5 49:22 52:5 lawful-author... logical 52:11
43:7
17:12
18:1,6 kind 24:11,12 laws 5:25 28:2 34:25
44:24 lawyer 29:8 30:6 35:1 1:19 2:7 43:13
21:3,4,9 know 6:9 8:6 lawyers 7:19 longer 11:8
22:18
21:11 lead 19:6 look 8:13 14:2 38:9 48:20
24:2,17 28:12,13 29:2 legion 38:4 19:7 23:3
25:5
30:5 lesser 25:13 34:16 39:19,21 34:7
31:17 39:7 let's 5:12 14:25 47:1,15 48:1
27:14
47:3,4 30:9 33:17 49:24 50:16 meant 17:5
28:4 47:20 50:20 44:17 46:2 54:10
level 19:21 20:5 looked 39:7 49:1 merely 30:23
knowing 46:18 45:6 49:10 50:8,11
31:5 2:11 3:5,6,8 53:20 MICHAEL 1:3
32:4 L 4:8 5:1,8,16 looks 23:4,6 1:17 2:5 25:23
33:3 lacked 3:13 8:19 6:15 7:5,11 8:8 46:24 Michigan 27:25
35:7 lacks 37:7 8:17 9:7,14,22 lost 39:23 40:9 28:1
16:21 40:24 original 41:4 43:21,25 44:2 16:22 17:3
notion 15:20 ought 38:23,24 peremptory-c... 18:21
nullity 41:11,23 17:7 18:10 46:21
53:9 petitioner 1:4,16 preface 7:3
35:13,16 41:10 participate 17:7 44:1 51:6 5:14 46:20
18:22 obligated 11:19 particular 5:23 36:4,18 presented 31:3
20:9 13:7 7:20 38:16 phenomenon preside 8:19
obligation 11:16 40:5,15 42:18 6:19 presides 21:1
21:16 obvious 19:4 49:24 51:17 pick 7:2 38:9
35:20 obviously 52:9 53:7,8,9,20,21 place 6:22 39:21 presumption
oh 6:25 28:9 percentage 7:24 34:19 43:18 prima 23:22,25
Oil 28:17 peremptories 28:20,23 33:24 principle 8:9,20
49:1 17:5 30:18 13:4 24:6 42:9 48:13 principles 7:8
Oklahoma 12:7 peremptory 42:8 51:6 probably 7:23
30:11 old 6:21 9:18,21,22,25 points 33:6 problem 6:18
39:9,11 once 11:14,19 10:2,10,25 pool 6:22 38:10 13:9 34:5
49:15 32:24 11:4,6,18,20 position 13:23 procedure 5:12
ones 50:4 11:21 12:4,8 13:23 14:16 35:16
37:4 33:1 14:1 15:4,18 positions 18:5 proceeding 8:11
6:17 reader 34:18 42:12 Respondent
13:8,14 Q really 6:23 26:4 remarks 41:1 1:18,22 2:6,9
qualification 40:21 remedied 5:13 25:24 43:16
19:21 7:17 20:25 reason 9:16,21 14:6 response 29:14
24:9 36:17 9:25 10:5,8,11 remedy 39:24 41:15
30:4 qualifications 11:1 23:17,20 40:2 42:1 restricting
36:23 6:16 7:12,13 23:25 24:4 removed 9:16 38:10
22:23 49:23 32:22 34:6,8 removing 12:18 restrictions 42:9
39:2 qualified 3:25 38:10,20 44:21 render 3:14 4:11 rests 46:19
42:4,5,18 4:6 49:7 46:5 47:5 48:9 4:14 44:14 result 3:12
44:8,8 question 6:4,5 reasonable 9:7 rendered 22:7,8 resulted 14:24
52:21,24 6:14,25 7:3 34:10 45:20 22:11,12 23:8 45:3 47:24
38:22 15:2 19:24 reasoning 16:16 renders 5:18 reversal 10:20
29:7 34:19 35:11,21 recall 14:7 reply 37:11 reverse 19:19
38:1 40:20 41:4,15 received 53:17 request 25:19 33:18
41:25 42:1 recognized 32:1 require 43:19 reversed 3:15
27:24 46:2,12 10:21 27:5,7 49:10 18:4,25 20:1
questions 20:19 record 48:1,2 49:21 22:6,15 23:5
quite 4:2,4 35:2 reelection 31:12 21:1 37:15 44:6,25 52:2
R refuse 24:20 7:4 37:10 reviewing 22:16
rarely 6:20 regulation 25:3 residency 6:9 8:23,23,24
36:1 47:21 50:19,20 rejected 13:11 21:2 36:8,9 11:13,15,16,18
54:2 15:20 27:11 resolve 33:10 11:20 12:6,21
27:11 35:20 relying 17:10 resolving 31:20 25:6,15 29:8
48:16 reached 34:19 remainder respect 5:11 29:25 30:1
43:2 read 15:24 remand 33:8,25 respected 15:19 40:3,4,9 43:25
47:24 13:3 14:10,18 sentencer 52:22 15:1,15 16:5 36:9,24 37:8
50:23 15:7 36:20 separate 3:15 16:17,25 17:12 37:24 38:10,19
52:21 37:6 serve 4:11 6:7 17:20 18:1,6 39:4 40:8,9
44:5 15:3,3 20:20 set 8:9 18:10 specifically 43:21 44:1,2,4
24:3 30:10 setting 7:8 15:25 23:16 44:4,5,7 45:18
21:9,25 21:15 25:5,8 showing 4:9 47:16 20:25
27:14 25:12 26:4,16 21:19 speculation statement 4:18
43:11,12 31:10,17 32:7 side 44:17 46:22 53:16 15:9 16:14
44:22 32:21 33:3 simply 4:24 33:5 split 40:21,22 34:12
46:3 34:5,13 33:10,24 34:19 sponte 24:23 states 1:1,12,21
Scalia's 27:15 35:6,6 36:25 stage 8:11 2:8 6:5 8:8
30:20 38:6 42:3 stake 4:3 42:12,13 43:14
49:3 scenario 43:2 single 44:14,16 stand 14:14 44:11 48:7,9
50:1 scenarios 50:2 sit 12:21 16:8 18:17 State's 7:12
51:1 Scodro 1:17 2:5 37:5 38:22 standard 6:12 State-law 26:7
25:22,23,25 40:16 42:24 28:17,24,25 31:20
54:22 26:16 27:16 sits 38:1 49:21 30:24 34:3 statute 13:13
17:17 30:3,14,16 37:10 51:13,13 31:12 statutory 37:9
27:5 31:2,9,14,24 situation 7:15 state 4:18,19,20 49:19 50:6
39:18 32:10 33:2,6 23:5 26:10 4:24 5:2,11,23 step 25:13
48:14 34:11,15 35:15 39:8 53:5,19 5:25,25 6:13 STEVENS
36:13,20 37:17 54:16 6:13,13 7:4,4 20:13 21:4
41:19 42:20 50:22,24 51:15 11:15,19 12:3 45:15 46:5
seat 41:23 skewed 45:2,12 14:11,16,19,24 52:8
51:21 Solicitor 1:17,19 16:1,10 17:1 Strickland
seen 38:20 47:17 50:2 24:4,9,18,18 3:19,23 4:13
selected 44:20 52:10 24:24 25:2,10 6:12 21:10,11
selection 14:5 SOUTER 4:15 30:23 31:20 subject 10:21
8:3 9:3 sense 37:21 14:2,14,20 35:10,12,18,25 18:24 20:1
sustainable 46:19 47:12,22 46:20 35:17
Swain 10:9,15 50:15 52:8,11 26:17 33:6 unremedied
sworn 37:9,25 14:3,3 16:17 upheld 42:10
thousand 5:22 ultimately 17:12 46:1 50:3
tainted 16:18 three-step 24:9 45:21
27:2 taken 4:3 time 13:19 25:20 12:5 46:6,8 11:11 12:7
tell 38:9,13,13 today 42:13 13:25 16:7 varying 7:4
43:16 term 6:10 tradition 11:21 35:23 13:18
39:16 38:5 transferable 39:25 15:22 16:11,19
terribly 22:3 47:17 understood 17:6,9,21
5:4 43:11 52:15 18:11 23:18,24 44:15 45:4,16 23:1,7,8,9
15:10,16 54:22 24:19,25 25:13 unfavorable 38:16 50:11,17
16:7,13 thereon 42:15 27:7 29:4,9 45:22 54:5,12
18:7 thing 7:19 28:17 30:12 32:2 unique 13:18 versus 8:8 27:25
19:15,21 32:25 44:22 39:10,11 42:17 United 1:1,12,21 28:1,16 37:25
20:2,9 54:13 44:9,13,15,18 2:8 8:8 43:14 viability 10:14
22:14 things 46:9 45:1,4 48:7,10 unlawful 3:17 vicinage 38:12
26:17,22 think 4:19 7:5 48:10 49:15,21 4:23 5:19,20 victims 9:9
7:18 10:5,6,17 52:1 53:15 6:10 12:22 view 38:15
33:4,22 11:3,8 21:23 trials 29:4 14:24 15:2,8 violate 45:1
35:9,19 22:21 23:2,13 trigger 26:20,25 15:16,21,21 50:22,24 52:2
41:16 26:6 28:3,9,14 triggers 5:20 16:9,10 20:17 52:4
53:2 28:18 30:17,20 true 22:1,1 20:23 21:5 violated 18:21
34:1,11 35:2 trying 26:9 unlawfully 36:6 51:22
45:13,17 46:7 turns 20:21 unnecessary violation 5:11
6:13 8:15 words 18:6 2009 1:9
14:4
49:15 23 1:9
18:8
20:14,16 world 46:14 3
26:2,6,7 worry 6:25
2:4
30:4 26:11 33:4 4
32:1,12 40:13 45:5 4 10:20 41:1
33:11 wounds 9:13 434 5:4 17:17
34:22 wrong 6:8 7:25 5
38:23 8:2 25:16
7:24
42:4,19 27:22 28:5,8
39:4
28:22 30:10
7:24
52:12,25 32:5,6 37:15
7:24
2:12
50:3 wrongful 3:18
x 1:2,7
40:16 Y
year 7:23
24:12 young 6:20
39:10
0
35:20 1
45:8
1:13 3:2
50:14,18
54:24
33:8 34:18
6:21
41:19
42:10
34:25
41:9
