IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
COEUR ALASKA, INC., :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-984
SOUTHEAST ALASKA :
CONSERVATION COUNCIL, ET :
AL.; :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
and
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ALASKA, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 07-990
SOUTHEAST ALASKA :
CONSERVATION COUNCIL, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, January 12, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for
oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United
States at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
federal respondents, in support of the Petitioners.
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioners.
THOMAS S. WALDO, ESQ., Juneau, Alaska; on behalf of the
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
On behalf of federal respondents, in
support of the Petitioners 4
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 16
THOMAS S. WALDO, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 07-984, Coeur Alaska
v. The Southeast Alaska Conservation Council, and Case
07-990, Alaska v. The Southeast Alaska Conservation
Council.
General Garre.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE
ON BEHALF OF FEDERAL RESPONDENTS,
IN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONERS
GENERAL GARRE: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
The expert agencies charged by Congress with
implementing the Clean Water Act have concluded that the
discharge of fill material, like the mine tailings at
issue in this case, should be permitted by the Army
Corps of Engineers under section 404 of the Act, and are
not -- are not subject to the effluent guidelines
applicable to permits issued by the EPA under section
402 of the Act.
That interpretation is grounded on more than
three decades of agency pronouncements and reflects the
collective judgment and expertise of the Army Corps of
Engineers and the EPA in administering the Act.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If the discharge comes
from a single pipe, is it always one or the other, or
can it ever be both fill and --
GENERAL GARRE: Justice Kennedy, it's always
one or the other. The Clean Water Act establishes two
permitting regimes. And I think this is actually
something where the parties agree. Either it's going to
be permitted under section 402 of the Act, which covers
pollutants generally but not the discharge of dredged
material, or fill material, which is covered by section
404 of the Act.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a legal
answer to Justice Kennedy's question. What is the
physical answer? Can a pipe both emit sludge, fill, and
effluent?
GENERAL GARRE: As a practical matter, for
example, if you take the slurry in this case, which is
55 percent solid by volume, there is going to be liquid
coming out of that pipe with the slurry, but under the
definition that the agencies administer of fill
material, this is fill material under that definition.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Fill material trumps
effluent, in other words?
GENERAL GARRE: Fill material trumps
effluent. That's --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it does -- here's the
problem that I am having and I think others may have.
We start, number one, with a definition, as I understand
it, of a pollutant that includes suspended solids.
Number two, there is an existing regulation to the
effect that wastewater from this particular method of
extracting gold shall simply not be released, shall not
be put into a water body. And then the two agencies
come along and in effect they say by regulation, if the
suspended solid in effect comes out of a mine, or if the
wastewater has got suspended solid in it, we are going
to call it "fill" and leave it entirely to the Army
Engineers under 404, subject to an EPA veto.
And on the face of it, it sounds as though
they are simply, number one, defining one -- one variant
of pollution out of the EPA's jurisdiction, and, number
two, with respect to the wastewater, in effect coming up
with a contradictory determination about what should be
done with it.
And it sounds as though, under the
Administrative Procedure Act, that with the statutory
and the regulatory regime on the one hand and this joint
regulation on the other, you've simply got a flat
contradiction, and query whether that can be anything
other than arbitrary and capricious under the APA. Will
you address that?
GENERAL GARRE: Sure, Justice Souter. First
of all, I those concerns really go to the definition of
"fill material," and I don't think that the Respondent
SEACC has squarely challenged that definition in this
case. And I would point you to two parts of the record.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, let's assume -- and I
don't mean to cut you off there, but before you're done
-- I am at least raising it because I find it very
difficult to get a handle on this case without dealing
with that problem. So you may say, well, they didn't
raise it well enough, but I still want you to deal with
it on the merits.
GENERAL GARRE: Sure. And let me just point
to the two parts of the record: The JA at 541 note 12,
where the Ninth Circuit acknowledged they didn't
challenge it; and also I would point you to the
complaint, where the complaint is directed to the
permits and does not seek a determination that the Fill
Rule definition is arbitrary and capricious.
We think that that definition reflects the
settled understanding and expertise of both agencies,
the Army Corps of Engineers --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How could it be settled,
because isn't it a fact that before 2002 if the primary
purpose was disposing of waste that the 402 permit
applied?
GENERAL GARRE: That is correct,
Justice Ginsburg. By "settled," I mean it was settled
in 2002. They adopted this rule.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it's not in 30 years'
experience, and when it was disposing of waste, it was
under 402 until 2002.
GENERAL GARRE: I think the EPA has always
adopted and applied an effects test for determining
whether or not a discharge is fill material --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in fact, was there
ever a permit by the Corps of Engineers when the purpose
was disposal of waste? Was there ever a 404 permit,
rather than a 402, for disposal of what they call
"processed wastewater" or "wastewater"?
GENERAL GARRE: There was a period, of
course, Justice Ginsburg -- you are right -- where the
Army Corps of Engineers adopted a primary purpose test.
During that period -- you are right -- 404 permits were
not -- were not issued for the discharge of things where
the purpose was not to fill the lake; it was to dispose
of material.
Now, during that period, though, those
discharges were not regulated under section 402 of the
Act and under Section 306, the effluent guidelines, but
for a different reason. The reason why that they
weren't regulated under 402 during that period is
because of the agencies' wastewater treatment exception,
which is found at 40 C.F.R. 122.2, where the agencies
excepted from the definition of the "waters of the
United States" discharges into an impoundment area.
And what you have going on here is the
discharge of fill material into an impoundment area,
which is dammed off with a 50-foot dam. Those
discharges, in this case, are governed by section 404 of
the Act. But any discharges from that impoundment area
into downstream waters of the United States are subject
to section 402 of the Act -- there's a separate permit
in this case -- and are subject to the effluent
guidelines and the new source performance standards.
So you have those two. The agencies have
come together. They've reconciled the statutory
regimes, and they have the 404 permit of dredged
material, material that's going to fill the bottom of
the lake, raise it by 50 feet, governed by section 404
of the Act. That impoundment area then is sealed off,
and any discharged material out of that impoundment area
into waters of the United States is going to be governed
by 402 and the separate effluent guidelines there. That
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's pretty cold comfort
when you treat as an impoundment area a natural lake. I
suppose if the -- if it's proper to do what they're
doing here, then the lake in the middle of the
Everglades is an impoundment area, or a Great Salt Lake
is an impoundment area.
GENERAL GARRE: Well, any -- we're talking
about --
JUSTICE SOUTER: This is a long way from a
settling pond.
GENERAL GARRE: Well, let me address that in
two different ways: First of all, at the end of this
project, when the lake is going to be reclaimed, the
agencies determined that it's going to be
environmentally as sound, if not superior, for the
habitats in Alaska, fish and wildlife. So at the end of
the project, it is going to be --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but what's that --
what's that got to do with the definition of
"impoundment area"? My problem is that you are
treating -- the Corps is treating as an impoundment area
a whole natural lake as distinct from a settling basin.
GENERAL GARRE: The statute refers to
specified disposal sites and what you have here, you are
right, is a lake. But it's impounded by a 50-foot dam.
The other part I wanted to point to is the section 404
guidelines are rigorous environmental guidelines that
address a number of different concerns, including the
quality of the water, the fish and wildlife habitat, and
at the end of that process you have got the EPA, which
has the right to exercise a veto over --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You keep saying they are
rigorous. My understanding is -- and I didn't think it
was seriously disputed here -- is that during the period
in which the deposits are going to be made, the natural
life of this water body is going to be destroyed.
GENERAL GARRE: That's true.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And the Corps comes along
and says, oh, when it's all over, it will come back.
But when you're destroying the entire living sort of
corpus of this lake, it seems to me that it's getting
more lenient to say that there are rigorous
environmental standards.
GENERAL GARRE: That's true, Justice Souter,
but it's important to keep in mind that the reason why
the lake -- the fish in the lake are not going to
survive is because of the fill effect of the material,
not because of any toxics put into the water.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but as I understand it,
and you correct me if I am wrong here, I thought
"suspended solids," I guess is the buzz word for it, is
a form of pollution. So you're saying, well, we're
destroying the fish with one form of pollution rather
than another form of pollution. And I don't know that
that advances the ball for your side.
GENERAL GARRE: Any time you have fill
material going into the waters of the United States --
of course, section 404 doesn't apply until you've got
fill material going into the waters of the United
States.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but this comes back to
my initial question. You are simply, or the Corps is
simply, defining what would otherwise be a pollutant,
suspended solids discharged into the water, by calling
it fill material. And it -- in effect it's defining one
subject of -- of discharge regulation right out of the
law of the United States by redefining it and saying,
oh, it doesn't exist if it's coming out of a mine.
GENERAL GARRE: I think what the agencies
have done to reconcile their definitions is to apply
this effects test. Now, if Coeur Alaska sought to fill
the entire lake --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But to apply the effects
test, the legal effect, is it not, is to define one form
of pollution as no longer existent so long as that form
of pollution falls within the Corps of Engineers
definition of "fill."
GENERAL GARRE: I don't think that's
correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Is that correct?
GENERAL GARRE: The legal effect is to
regulate that pollution under section 404.
JUSTICE ALITO: General Garre, I don't want
to take up your rebuttal time, but what's the
environmental alternative to what was done here?
GENERAL GARRE: The primary environmental
alternative considered was a dry tailings alternative.
And that would be been problematic in two different
ways. One, it would have required the destruction of
some 100 acres of wetlands; and two, it would have
resulted in enormous stacks of tailings, 100 to 200
high, thousands of feet wide, that would actually dwarf
the Pentagon and be visible from nearby Berners Bay.
Now, the Army Corps of Engineers, the State
of Alaska, and the Forest Service determined that the
wet tailings option, putting the tailings into a lake,
and reclaiming that lake so that it would be
environmentally superior, was the preferable option.
I do want to emphasize that if this Court
has any doubt about the statutory text the regulatory
decisions here go back more than 30 years. In 1973 the
EPA adopted a rule that said that the discharge of fill
material is not regulated under the section 402
permitting system. In 2002, in the preamble to the fill
rule, the agency made clear again EPA has never
regulated the discharge of fill material under the
effluent guidelines.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Weren't they then
thinking of fill material as material that was used
either to fill in, to reclaim land, or in a construction
project? I mean, to call filling a lake, to call that a
fill, when what it's doing is providing a disposal place
for a mining operation, it's not what one ordinarily
thinks of as a filling operation.
GENERAL GARRE: Not the Environmental
Protection Agency. The Environmental Protection Agency
since the passage of the Clean Water Act has taken the
position that discharge that has the effect of changing
the bottom elevation of a water is going to be fill.
And that makes sense as a practical matter. The
agencies with 30 years of experience determined that the
purpose definition that the Corps had adopted for a
period was unworkable, unpredictable and didn't make
sense. And I think that if there's any judgment that
the courts ought to defer to here, it's the judgment of
the agencies based on their collective experience as to
the proper definition of "fill material."
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's one question that
Justice Souter raised and before you sit down I would
like to get your answer, and that is, can anything, any
water of the United States that the Corps of Engineers
decides is appropriate to be used as a disposal place,
can any waterway be a settling pond? That is, here we
have a lake. And is it just up to the Corps of
Engineers? They say this is a settling pond, it's a
settling pond?
GENERAL GARRE: I think as a practical
matter if you put discharge into a river and it may not
change the bottom elevation, that wouldn't be fill
material. But, Justice Ginsburg, there have been a
number of hypotheticals raised by Respondents here. Let
me address those. The section 404 process is a rigorous
environmental process, the EPA does have veto authority.
We haven't seen these problems at all in the six years
that the fill definition has been in place and I think
it's simply untenable to suggest that these standards,
which in section 4 require water quality determinations,
wildlife, aquatic determination, would result in the
sort of environmental harm that Respondents have
hypothesized, and the prospect of that harm is no basis
for this Court to override the statutory scheme that
Congress created with two distinct permitting regimes,
one for fill material, one for other pollutants, and to
override the agency's pronouncements, interpretations
for more than 30 years.
And the other agency document I wanted to
point to is very important. It's the 2004 mine tailings
memorandum, which is contained at JA-141 to 146. In
that memorandum, which is a 2004 memo by the heads of
the EPA water divisions, they explain the application of
the statutory and the regulatory scheme to these types
of discharges, discharges that fill material into the
impoundment is going to be subject to 404 and the
rigorous process there. Any discharges out of that
impoundment area is going to be subject to the rigorous
requirements of 402 and that agency interpretation is
entitled to deference.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
GENERAL GARRE: Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Olson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court: Let me reemphasize one point. The
Clean Water Act itself, Congress created two distinct,
mutually exclusive but complementary permitting regimes.
One is fill material, which is governed by, administered
by the Corps of Engineers. The other is "other, except
as permitted under section 404," administered by the
EPA.
A discharge, in answer to your question,
Justice Kennedy, may be governed by one program or the
other, not both. Everybody admits that, including the
Respondents.
The fill rule --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But doesn't the EPA have a
veto power over the fill material permit?
MR. OLSON: Yes, it does, Justice Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So they're not totally
mutually exclusive.
MR. OLSON: It's mutually exclusive in terms
of the issuing agency, and I think that's a very
important point. We want to emphasize that, that the
rules pursuant to which the Corps of Engineers
administers the fill permit are the 404(b)(1) rules
which Congress specified to be enacted by the EPA. So
the rigorous rules governing the quality of the water
that's going to be affected by these fill permits are
established by the EPA.
Furthermore, the State is involved, the
fisheries departments are involved, the conservation
area of the State of Alaska. Many different agencies
are involved in this permitting process. The permits in
this case followed 900 studies, the expenditure of $26
million, an evaluation by the EPA, the Corps of
Engineers, the department of conservation of Alaska,
and, Justice Stevens' point, finally before the permit
could be issued it had to go to the EPA and the EPA had
the power to veto the permit.
Now, Congress determined --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could they veto it
due to its failure to comply with effluent limitations?
MR. OLSON: No, they could not do that,
Justice -- Chief Justice Roberts, because the --
Congress made a choice under sections 404 and 402.
Section 402, the EPA program, is governed by those
effluent limitations under 301 and 306 and standards of
performance.
Congress made a choice of applying section
307, which are toxic effluent limitations that apply to
the 404 permits. That 307 regime which Congress
selected, which is also endorsed by the EPA in the rules
that the -- that the Corps must follow in administering
the permit -- that 307 provision to which I just
referred to is in the 404(b)(1) regime rules. So all of
this, the permitting process, which Congress made the
decision to put into two baskets: Either it's fill
material or it's except permits under --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What happens if the
agencies disagree as to whether it's fill? If 404 says
it's fill, EPA says it isn't, can the EPA then veto it
on that ground?
MR. OLSON: The -- the -- yes. I -- I think
the answer to that is yes. But the better answer to
that, Justice Kennedy, is for a while, as -- as General
Garre pointed out, the EPA had a different concept of
what was fill than the Corps of Engineers. The EPA
right from the beginning said it would be the effect on
the -- on the water.
The Corps for a while had that definition.
Then it used a purpose test. Both agencies, the EPA and
the Army Corps of Engineers, agreed in 2002 that that
"purpose" definition of the word "fill" was not
workable. It was too subjective.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But there are still going
to be cases, I would assume very close cases, even under
the present standard, where there could be disagreement.
MR. OLSON: Well, there could be
disagreement, but I was just about to say that this rule
was jointly adopted by the Corps of Engineers and the
EPA in 2002. To the extent there is any ambiguity as to
what fill material is, both the Army Corps of Engineers
and the EPA agree that it includes slurry from mines.
So that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The definition that was
adopted, if I have it right, was the EPA definition.
That was the effect. And it was the Corps that had the
purpose test. And yet, until 2002, if I understand
correctly, if the only reason of raising the elevation
of the lake was to dispose of waste, you didn't get a
404 permit. That was not a 404 situation until 2002.
MR. OLSON: That's -- that's -- except in
the early stage, as I understand it, the Corps and --
the Corps also used the "effects" test. Then there was
a period of time when it used a "purpose" test. The EPA
consistently used the -- the "effects" test. In --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in an application
that never included filling a lake, raising the
elevation of a lake simply for the purpose of disposing
of waste.
MR. OLSON: That's -- that's -- until that
point, that's correct, Justice Ginsburg. But the two
agencies that were involved in this process determined
that that was not a workable test. It didn't function
well. It allowed too much evasion and -- and
manipulation, and they both came together after long
studies and decided a reasonable interpretation that was
effective, consistent, and workable.
Under the Clean Water Act, both agencies
came together and decided that the definition included
the placement of overburden, slurry, tailings, or
similar mining-related materials.
Now, to the extent there is any ambiguity in
the statute, this is the reasoned judgment, notice-and-
comment rulemaking by the two agencies given
responsibility.
JUSTICE BREYER: I -- I perhaps am missing
this. I -- this is in general what I don't understand,
how this works. My understanding is that under 404
something is "fill" -- they have a definition. And it's
"fill," among other things, if it changes the bottom
level of any portion of water in the United States. Is
that right?
MR. OLSON: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: And somewhere I have the
idea -- but I can't find it in the briefs now -- that it
has to raise the bottom level by 55 feet.
MR. OLSON: No, I don't -- that does not --
JUSTICE BREYER: There is some number of
feet.
MR. OLSON: I don't know where you got that.
That is the result in this case.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's the result of this
case. But, anyway, it raises the level. I guess it has
to raise it some significant amount. All right. So
what happens in this situation?
Let us think of the worst pollutant you can
think of. Think of that. I don't know what it is.
Maybe it's saturated fat in potato chips, something
absolutely terrible.
MR. OLSON: Cholesterol.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. We are going to
think of that pollutant. And now let's suppose that
with the agreement of the Army Corps of Engineers a
company takes this pollutant, which is the worst one you
could think of, that the EPA would never let you go
within 50 feet of it, and they take it, and they fill a
lake with it up to the level of 55 feet, or 20 feet, or
whatever number of feet.
I mean, it just can't be that simply because
they poured a lot of it in and it fills up the bottom of
the lake that suddenly the EPA can't regulate it any
more. Now, that -- that -- since that's so
counterintuitive, that all you have to do is take a
terrible pollutant and fill the bottom of the lake with
it and now it's up to the Army Corps of Engineers and
not up to the EPA -- that's so counterintuitive that I
assume I don't understand the statute, and you will
explain it to me.
MR. OLSON: Yes, I will, Justice Breyer. If
it's fill, the administrating, permitting agency is the
Army Corps of Engineers.
JUSTICE BREYER: Uh-huh.
MR. OLSON: But in granting that permit, in
evaluating that permit, they must follow the 404(b)(1)
guidelines that were drafted and written by the EPA. So
that -- and EPA has all sorts of provisions. It can't
have an adverse effect on the water. There cannot be a
preferable environmental alternative. It must go
through the Marine Fisheries. It cannot contain that
toxic material that you are talking about, that worst
material in the world.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it can contain it so
long as it is -- as it -- as it is not transitory.
MR. OLSON: No --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, isn't it arguable
that the best place for -- for really toxic stuff is at
the bottom of a lake so long as it stays there and is
not carried --
MR. OLSON: That -- that may be, but the
Rule 404(b)(1) guidelines address both that point, and I
understand your point, too. But in -- on 11(a) of the
Government's brief the -- the 404(b)(1) guidelines are
set forth, and it includes a provision, number 2 on that
page, "violates any applicable toxic effluent standard
or prohibition under section 307 of the Act." So the
water quality is going to be regulated according to EPA
standards.
JUSTICE BREYER: It is identical. So it
doesn't make any difference.
MR. OLSON: Pardon me?
JUSTICE BREYER: I -- I heard you say before
that it was not identical. That -- I mean if, of
course, EPA takes all its regs and applies those regs
when the Army Corps of Engineers considers a permit
under 404 so that you couldn't get an Army Corps of
Engineers permit unless you complied with the 402
etcetera regs, then this all could come to nothing.
MR. OLSON: Every -- every --
JUSTICE BREYER: So there must be something
missing in that.
MR. OLSON: Yes, there is.
JUSTICE BREYER: What?
MR. OLSON: The difference that a regulation
--
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the most important
thing that is missing?
MR. OLSON: The -- there is not -- it's --
it's -- the most important thing that is present is that
Congress decided that these regulations that the --
"fill" is different stuff. It was for a different -- it
had different consequences and should be regulated in a
different way. The definition --
JUSTICE BREYER: I think what might be
missing --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is nontoxic covered by 402?
MR. OLSON: Pardon me?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Nontoxic is covered by 402.
You -- you can violate the effluent guidelines by -- by
pouring into the waters of the United States even
nontoxic materials, isn't that right?
MR. OLSON: Yes, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And under 404 it'S only
toxic.
MR. OLSON: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's the big
difference.
MR. OLSON: And -- and -- and I'm going to
reserve the balance, if I might, for rebuttal. But let
me just say "pollutant" includes sand and rock. And
what's being put in this settling area, this lake, is
the sand, which is the same consistency of the bottom of
the lake. It's inert material. It does not changing
the chemical composition. It is not hurting the water
quality of the lake.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it's going to kill
every living creature in the lake, right?
MR. OLSON: Putting sand or rocks --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Wait a minute. It is going
to kill everything in the lake.
MR. OLSON: Yes, it is, Justice Souter.
Putting sand in the bottom of the lake is going to do
that. They are going to reintroduce the fish. It will
be a bigger lake with a better aquatic system when it's
finished. But, yes, you are correct, in the interim the
sand at the bottom of the lake will kill those fish.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And how do we know that
life will ever be restored? I mean, that's a guess.
Nobody knows.
MR. OLSON: It's a -- it's a condition for
the permit, and every agency which examined this,
including the Fisheries Department, the -- the
conservation agencies of the State of Alaska -- and
specifically said in the administrative record that
under the worst-case scenario they believe that all of
that is going to take place, and there will be more fish
in a bigger lake and more livable living conditions for
the fish and aquatic life after this process is
finished.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Olson.
Mr. Waldo.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS S. WALDO
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. WALDO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In section 306(e), Congress enacted an
unqualified prohibition against operating any new source
in violation of any standard of performance applicable
to the source. The standard of performance at issue in
this case is applicable on its face to the formula at
the Kensington mine. It says there shall be no
discharge of processed wastewater into navigable waters
from mills that use the froth-flotation process.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, the
provision that authorizes permits begins by saying
"Except as provided in sections 1328 and 1344," and 1344
is 404. So why doesn't that just take the 404 regime
completely out of what you were just talking about?
MR. WALDO: Because that's only a statement
about whether section 402 applies. It means that if you
have a section 404 permit, you don't also need a section
402 permit. It doesn't say anything about whether a 404
permit is appropriate under any particular
circumstances, and it doesn't say anything about whether
section 306 is applicable. In fact --
JUSTICE ALITO: The standard has to be --
the standard has to be applicable and this is an EPA
regulation, isn't it?
MR. WALDO: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: And the EPA has said this
isn't applicable to this situation.
MR. WALDO: But that determination was based
on a misinterpretation of the Clean Water Act. That
prefatory clause that the Chief Justice was asking about
doesn't say anything about whether section 306 applies.
306 does not have a prefatory clause like that, which
strongly suggests that it's not intended to apply there.
In other --
JUSTICE ALITO: So your position requires us
to determine that EPA's interpretation of those, the
statutory regime that you are talking about, 306 and
402, is contrary to the statute?
MR. WALDO: That the interpretation as it's
presented in this case is contrary to the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If EPA were to amend the
performance standard to say that it doesn't apply in the
situation in which the fill rule applies, would that be
a valid regulation?
MR. WALDO: Well, I doubt that EPA could --
could lawfully under the Clean Water Act enact such a
thing, because the Clean Water Act requires EPA to
regulate suspended solids and EPA has always regulated
suspended solids through effluent limitations.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Could the -- could the EPA
allow a point source to discharge sand slurry -- there's
nothing in it but sand -- into a river? Wouldn't you
have to -- wouldn't you need some permission from the
EPA to do that? Wouldn't that violate the Act?
MR. WALDO: If it -- I'm sorry, so it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I want to discharge. I
have a pipe and there is sand on my land which is being
washed away. I'm discharging all that sand into a
river.
MR. WALDO: Yes --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would that violate --
MR. WALDO: That's a discharge of a
pollutant, that's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Discharge of a pollutant.
MR. WALDO: Yes. And so --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, if I do the same thing
in a lake, because I want to fill the lake, of what
possible application is the fill standard unless it
permits what would otherwise be prohibited under --
under the earlier sections?
MR. WALDO: Well, the Corps of Engineers has
the authority under section 404 to grant fill material
permits --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even though it violates
effluent standards.
MR. WALDO: No, not when it violates
effluent standards.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you say -- you say that
if you discharge sand into -- into a river it violates
effluent standards.
MR. WALDO: Oh, that doesn't -- oh, I'm
sorry. I didn't understand that part of your question.
Yes, if -- if there is an effluent limitation for a
particular source -- remember, effluent limitations are
adopted for industrial sources, so you would have to
look at what the source of that discharge was.
And if EPA had identified that source, a
particular kind of factory of some kind, a mill, you
know, a leather tanning facility or something like that,
if EPA had adopted effluent limitations that were
applicable to that source, then discharges have to
comply with those effluent limitations.
It's important to realize here that the
Clean Water Act, contrary to the way the Petitioners try
to present it, is not just one big permitting statute.
It's not simply 402 and 404 and that determines
everything. The effluent limitations under sections 301
and 306 have independent applicability directly to
discharges. They are separately enforceable by EPA and
through citizens.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The discharges we
are talking about have to be discharges of effluent,
right?
MR. WALDO: Something that is governed by an
effluent limitation, yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My question is, does
it apply to solids?
MR. WALDO: Absolutely. EPA is required in
the Clean Water Act to regulate suspended solids through
effluent limitations.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I guess, I
mean, does suspended solids mean there is some liquid
involved?
MR. WALDO: That implies some liquid, right;
that -- that the solids are present in the liquid, like
the discharge here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Like the discharge
here. Now, I think Mr. Olson said these are 55 percent
solid by volume.
MR. WALDO: By weight. By volume it is 30
percent solids.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there a point at
which it's proper to speak of it as a solid rather than
a suspended solid? I mean, 90 percent by weight or by
volume, whichever it is, solid?
MR. WALDO: Well, the standard in this case
prohibits a discharge of processed wastewater.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. WALDO: And so, it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You wouldn't think
something that's 90 percent solid is wastewater?
MR. WALDO: There might be some point at
which the liquid content of a solid waste is so small
that EPA wouldn't regard it as processed wastewater
anymore. But that's not the case here. In this case,
there is no dispute that the discharge is processed
wastewater. The government has conceded that point.
And -- and it's extremely important, because
EPA is required to, as I said, regulate suspended solids
through effluent limitations and to adopt a zero --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if they were just
putting whatever it is that doesn't have any water,
concrete, into this lake, then you agree that it would
be just the Corps of Engineers through the fill -- fill
provisions that would govern that?
MR. WALDO: As long as there is no effluent
limitation governing it, yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And so, if they chop
up the concrete and put a little water in so that it's
easier to move, then all of a sudden it comes under 402
and the EPA's jurisdiction?
MR. WALDO: It depends on if EPA has adopted
an effluent limitation for it. So if that waste stream
that you are describing comes from some kind of factory,
concrete -- for example, cement manufacturing is a
source category that EPA --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess I'm just
curious how that makes any sense, since we are talking
about putting something into water. I mean, does it
really matter whether you add the water before it goes
into the lake or just the lake adds the water when you
put in the solid?
MR. WALDO: EPA --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERT: Either way, I guess
your friends on the other side would argue, I assume,
that it's properly regarded as fill material, because
that is the effect of it, rather than as effluent
subject to 402.
MR. WALDO: EPA has always regulated
industrial sources that -- whose raw processed
wastewater contains high levels of suspended solids,
high enough that it would have the effect of fill
material and can be considered fill. In fact -- and, in
fact, EPA has always had a definition of fill material
that was based on the effects.
So for more than 30 years, EPA has been
regulating sources like ore processing mills, cement
manufacturing plants, aluminum smelters, coal-fired
power plants, all of which and many more require the use
of settling ponds to remove the solids.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So do we decide -- we
decide this case on the assumption that this is fill?
Do you agree that this is fill?
MR. WALDO: It's both. It's fill material
and it's processed wastewater that is subject to an
effluent limitation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then the question
that we've put earlier is whether or not a single pipe
contained both, and you say that it can contain both.
MR. WALDO: Well, it's -- it's one slurry.
It meets both definitions. The solids are part of the
processed wastewater.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's one -- visibly, it's
one stream, but you say it consists of two things.
MR. WALDO: Well, it is -- it is a slurry
that contains water, chemicals --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it both slurry -- is it
both fill and non-fill?
MR. WALDO: It's -- it's fill and it's
processed wastewater.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if it's both -- do you
agree that there can be only one permit; there can't be
a 402 and a 404 permit?
MR. WALDO: No. In this case there can't be
any permit because there is a new source performance
standard that prohibits --
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. So, let's change
that. What if the -- what if the new source performance
standard was not a total prohibition? What if there was
an effluent limitation in there, so that a permit could
be issued, provided that there was compliance with the
effluent limitation? Now, who issues the permit? And I
repeat, I understand it's your position that there can't
be both a 402 and a 404 permit.
MR. WALDO: If there is an effluent
limitation applicable, it will end up having to be EPA
that issues the permit, and that's -- that's simply
because the Corps of Engineers just doesn't have the
tools available to apply effluent limitations in its 404
permits, except for toxic substances.
JUSTICE ALITO: Where do you find that in
the statute?
MR. WALDO: Well --
JUSTICE ALITO: Where there's a situation
where possibly there could be a 402 and a 404 permit,
the 402 permit trumps the 404 permit?
MR. WALDO: Well, it's just that -- where we
find that is in section 306(e), which says -- which is a
prohibition against offering -- operating sources in
violation of performance standards. And here --
JUSTICE ALITO: This wouldn't be an
operation in violation of a performance standard. There
would be a performance standard.
MR. WALDO: The performance standard that
says --
JUSTICE ALITO: That can be put into a 402
permit.
MR. WALDO: Oh, I see what you are saying.
Yeah. Well, even -- the -- what the problem is is that
section 404 doesn't make any provision for application
of effluent limitations and performance standards under
sections 301 and 306.
JUSTICE ALITO: And 402 doesn't make any
application for -- for the 404 regulations.
MR. WALDO: Yeah, that's correct. But it
does provide the tool for EPA to apply those effluent
limitations that you were asking about. The effluent
limitations have to be complied with, and EPA is the
agency under section --
JUSTICE ALITO: Where does it make the --
where does it make provision for application of the
standards that should apply to fill under 404?
MR. WALDO: Well, those standards apply if
you have fill material that is not subject to some
effluent limitation. Effluent limitations are only
adopted for industrial sources --
JUSTICE ALITO: Where does the statute say
that?
MR. WALDO: Where does it say -- I'm sorry.
Could you clarify the question?
JUSTICE ALITO: Where does it say that? You
say that there can't be two permits and you say 402
trumps 404. And I'm asking where in the statute does it
say that?
MR. WALDO: It is an absence of a provision
in 404, but -- but the thing is, even if 404 has -- even
if the Corps of Engineers -- and I should say, we agree
with the Government and with the agencies about this.
The agencies have never interpreted section 404 to
provide for the application of effluent limitations in
404 permits. The 404(b) guidelines don't provide for
it; it's not provided in the statute. And so, they just
don't have the ability to do it.
The problem is, they try to carry that a
step farther and take that absence of provision to say
that it's an exception from effluent limitations, to say
that they don't have to comply with section 301 and 306,
but it doesn't say that; and that's an implied
exception, and the Court should only find an implied
exception if it's necessary to avoid absurd results.
JUSTICE BREYER: Could you go --
MR. WALDO: No one --
JUSTICE BREYER: Excuse me. Could you go
back for a second to my discussion with Mr. Olson? I'm
thinking of it in very simplified terms. The simplified
terms is, I think of a pipe and I think of a
circumstance where some terrible pollutant comes out of
the pipe that would be subject to 306; and if the pipe
goes up in a river or a lake, a regular lake, it could
fill up the bottom. Seems possible.
MR. WALDO: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So if it fills
up the bottom, it's called fill and comes under 404.
MR. WALDO: It doesn't even have to fill it
up very much --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I know, I know that.
I see the point. But I mean, it seems to me if it fills
up to the bottom to whatever point, it's fill, and now
it's the Army Corps of Engineers. If it has effluent in
it, it's effluent and so now it's under EPA. In other
words, you have both.
MR. WALDO: That's the situation.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's only been going on for
40 years. I'm sure this isn't the first time they've
had both.
MR. WALDO: That's exactly right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and so I don't
understand. What I would think of is if you have two
sets of standards and it's both, they should satisfy
both. I'm not writing these statutes.
MR. WALDO: Well, let me -- I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, I heard from -- and I
might interpret Mr. Olson -- he may not have really said
this, but the way I heard it was: Well, don't worry,
because if it's fill and you get it over to the Corps of
Engineers, they are going to apply the effluent standard
anyway. And now you are sort of saying: Well, or they
are going to apply some standard. And then there was a
question of well, what standard, and we got a little
vague there.
Now, what happens if it goes to the EPA as
effluent? Justice Alito's question is, well, do they
apply the fill standard? And between my response to
these two answers, I still don't understand how it
works. It's -- help me.
MR. WALDO: The Corps of Engineers only
applies toxic effluent limitations. There are other
pollutants that are nontoxic --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So now, if you lose
this case, what we are going to have is all the fish are
going to be killed by some horrible pollutant, and the
-- the Army Corps of Engineers can't do anything about
it, and the only reason is we put enough of the
pollutant in there to fill it up to ten feet from the
bottom. And then if you did it the other way, if the
EPA regulated it, it might do something terrible under
404, and they couldn't do anything about it.
Now it's very hard for me to believe that
that's really how these agencies have been operating for
40 years.
MR. WALDO: Well, that's not; and let me
explain how they have been operating, because I think
that will help clarify it. For 40 years EPA has
regulated sources like ore processing mills, aluminum
smelters, others that I have named, others that are
listed in our brief, and has applied effluent
limitations to those discharges. Now, you hear --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even when they --
even fill -- even when they fill a lake?
MR. WALDO: Yes, absolutely -- and let me
explain that, because you hear this statement a lot:
"EPA never regulates fill material." Well, that's
because when you apply the effluent limitations, it's
not fill material anymore.
The effluent limitations require the use of
settling ponds that are not in navigable waters. The
settling ponds or other technologies remove almost all
of the solids so that the discharge that is permitted by
EPA in the section 402 permit might have a limitation of
20 or 30 milligrams per liter, something that wouldn't
have a measurable filling effect on the receiving water
body.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So when EPA
regulates has regulated these for 40 years, which I
assume is up until 2002, then it's -- it's because they
don't go into lakes; it's because they go into settling
ponds?
MR. WALDO: Settling ponds.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which are not
navigable waters of the United States.
MR. WALDO: Exactly.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the new
regulation says the EPA does not regulate it when it
goes into -- I can understand why the Army Corps of
Engineers doesn't care if it's an impoundment pond or a
settling pond, but they do care when it's a lake.
MR. WALDO: When they adopted the new
regulation, they were very clear that they intended to
continue their past practice. The agencies never stated
an intent to repeal or modify or change the
applicability of any effluent limitations, and in fact
this question came up repeatedly: What happens if it's
fill material but it's subject to an effluent
limitation; and every time they addressed it, they said
the same thing. Effluent limitations will continue to
apply and will be applied through section 402 permits.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To fill material as
defined in the 2002 regulation?
MR. WALDO: That's what it's all about, yes.
That's what they were talking about. That was addressed
over and over again in the -- in the Fill Rule, and they
never --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which, which, which
-- I'm sorry, which Fill Rule?
MR. WALDO: The -- I'm talking about the
Federal Register preamble and the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. You are
talking about the preamble. I'm looking at the
definition of fill material in -- whatever -- it's
reproduced at page 7a and 8a of the government's brief.
MR. WALDO: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The -- definition --
MR. WALDO: The definition of fill material
is simply a definition. By itself it doesn't have any
operative effect. It doesn't -- it doesn't authorize
any particular kinds of discharges.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but -- but do you have
a -- a case over these 40 years where a company was
trying to use the emission from the mine as a fill
material in a lake rather than in a settling pond, and
where the EPA, despite the fact that it was using it to
fill a lake, applied its effluent standards?
MR. WALDO: No, it's been permitted --
prohibited.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then --
MR. WALDO: It's been prohibited. It's
illegal for EPA to permit the discharge of the processed
wastewater --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Evidently not. I mean, the
EPA says not. Do you have a -- an instance where it was
prohibited where a company wanted to -- to emit fill
material into a lake and the EPA said no, you can't do
it, because of the effluent limitations?
MR. WALDO: Well, if any -- I don't know if
anyone ever asked to do that, but if they did the answer
would have been no. I can't come up with an answer
because that's what the effluent limitations require.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But your -- your 40 years
of experience then really don't -- don't cover this
case. People have been putting it into settling ponds.
Let me ask you another question. The other
side says that the alternative to this would be even
worse, or it sounds worse to me, anyway. What -- what
is your solution, closing down the mine? Is there --
MR. WALDO: No, no, no. We -- we agree with
EPA on this point. There is a different of opinion
between EPA and Corps of Engineers as to which was the
preferred site. EPA preferred the dry land disposal
site, and -- and we agree that has much less adverse
affect on the ecosystem.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- your description of
that effect? The other solution we were told would
involve filling in a vast expanse of wetlands and then
having these huge piles that could be seen by all the
tourist boats.
MR. WALDO: Yes, it has -- it does have
adverse impacts, that is, some; but in EPA's view and in
our view is not as bad as filling up a lake and killing
all the fish and aquatic life in the lake.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All the fish, there
are a thousand fish in this lake, right?
MR. WALDO: Yes. Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And those aren't
endangered fish; there are millions of them somewhere
else, right?
MR. WALDO: That's right. But it's -- it's
also an important point for us here that this is a
national rule, and EPA considered these kind of
alternative land use requirements as an effect of its
no-discharge rule. When the -- EPA specifically
addressed the fact that if you prohibit discharges of
processed wastewater into navigable waters, it's going
to require using more land to dispose of all that solid
waste somewhere, and they determined that the benefits
of keeping processed wastewater out of the navigable
waters was worth it. And so it's both site-specifically
preferable, and it's a determination that was based
on --
JUSTICE ALITO: Wasn't there a decision in
the lower courts that the alternative was unacceptable
as well? And would you represent that if the case were
remanded, that would not be your position on remand?
MR. WALDO: Oh, we've already taken that
position, yes. We've been working -- we -- we were
working with the mining company after the Ninth Circuit
decision to identify --
JUSTICE ALITO: It was never your position
that that was unacceptable?
MR. WALDO: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE ALITO: It was never your client's
position that creating these permanently destroyed
wetlands and creating a mound that was bigger than the
Pentagon was an unacceptable solution to the --
MR. WALDO: I don't want to make any
representations about what a client may have said over
the last 20 years of this mine, but I can tell you that
we were working with the agencies and with Coeur to
identify an alternative site they -- or the Coeur
applied for the permits to do that, and pursuant to this
mediation we were having and then abruptly pulled out a
few weeks ago.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you said the EPA
preferred the -- the solution of filling in the wetlands
and creating an ash Pentagon?
MR. WALDO: When -- when the Corps of
Engineers proposed the draft 404 permit, EPA commented
on it and said, we disagree with your conclusion that
filling up the lake is the least environmentally
dangerous.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if it really felt
that way, couldn't it simply have vetoed the permit?
MR. WALDO: Yes, EPA can veto --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it couldn't have felt
very strongly about it.
MR. WALDO: Well, EPA -- the veto authority
is a discretionary authority.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. WALDO: It's for unacceptable adverse
consequences. And for understandable reasons, EPA very
rarely exercises that authority. But EPA never changed
its position about whether the -- about which was the
preferred alternative. The EPA --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It couldn't have preferred
it very much, or it would have vetoed this one.
MR. WALDO: It -- apparently not enough to
come to the conclusion that it was one of those
situations where they wanted to veto based on
unacceptable adverse consequences.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there any aquatic
life in this lake other than a thousand fish?
MR. WALDO: Well, sure. There's
microinvertebrae and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Microinvertebrae?
MR. WALDO: I mean, all sorts of the things
that fish feed on. Plant life and animal life, and all
that stuff.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Plankton and stuff.
MR. WALDO: Yes. Whatever. I'm not an
expert on the ecology of this lake, but there is a
couple of different kinds of fish and other life that
make it possible for those fish to live there, and
essentially --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is it right --
MR. WALDO: -- it would all be destroyed.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is it right -- now, I am
back on my hobby horse -- but is it right that this
slurry is pushing into this lake 50 feet or 75 feet
covering the bottom with some stuff? A lot of it's
dirt, and some of it's the worst chemical ever, except
it's not toxic? Okay. I guess cyanide isn't toxic.
But the -- the -- now I just heard that if
the EPA doesn't give the permit, but the Corps of
Engineers does, the EPA has the power to veto the
permit. Is that right?
MR. WALDO: EPA can veto for unacceptable
adverse consequences. It's not a way to enforce
effluent limitations.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why not? If they have a
veto power --
MR. WALDO: Because that's all 404(c) says.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know it comes under a
different statute, but in any instance where in fact
they see that some of their rules that they promulgate
are being violated and they think the Corps of Engineers
is not paying attention to those rules, they can veto
it.
MR. WALDO: Well, but then --
JUSTICE BREYER: If they don't veto it, then
that would be a way of reconciling these two things.
MR. WALDO: The -- the position that EPA has
taken in this case, unfortunately, is that, if the
discharge meets that definition of fill material, no
matter how bad the consequences are for water quality,
it's fill material, and it's therefore exempt from
effluent limitations --
JUSTICE BREYER: So couldn't they veto it?
MR. WALDO: Only if it was for adverse --
well, if they found adverse -- unacceptable adverse
consequences --
JUSTICE BREYER: And wouldn't an
unacceptable adverse consequence be that it puts all
this effluent into the water?
MR. WALDO: It's a different standard from
whether it violates an effluent limitation. That's all
I'm saying.
And I want to be clear that the effluent in
this case, although it doesn't necessarily violate any
toxic pollutant effluent, it is toxic. It's toxic with
conventional pollutants. It has a pH of 10, which is
toxic to aquatic life. It's very high. It's about the
pH of ammonia, is what this slurry effluent is that's
being discharged in this case. And the --
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that the pH at the
point where it's discharged, and not the general pH in
the lake?
MR. WALDO: It will dilute in the lake.
They are using the lake as their diluting settling pond.
That's right. They're using a navigable water body --
JUSTICE ALITO: What's the answer to the
question, when -- once it's released into the lake,
what's the pH of the lake as opposed to the --
MR. WALDO: Oh, it will dilute in the lake,
so it will revert to normal levels, but --
JUSTICE ALITO: Within how long?
MR. WALDO: Oh, I mean, that happens, you
know, in a -- some sort of a mixing zone just outside
the pipe. That happens pretty quickly.
Now, for the lake to recover --
JUSTICE ALITO: The pH that you just cited
was the pH --
MR. WALDO: Of the slurry.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- just at the point of the
discharge?
MR. WALDO: Of the slurry. That's right.
And -- now I want to talk about this allegation that
it's like dumping wet sand in the lake. That's not true
at all. They tested the tailings sediment from this
discharge with two organisms, and with one of them, it
killed 95 percent of the organisms in the test, which is
way over the top for EPA's toxicity threshold. In the
other organism they had, it -- the organism survived,
but their reproduction rate was significantly reduced,
also meeting the toxicity test standards that EPA
establishes. So this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to follow up,
that's the same point, though, that Justice Alito made:
You're testing that right as it comes out, not as it's
diluted in the lake.
MR. WALDO: No. No, Your Honor, that's not
right. That's what the solids -- that's the affect of
the solids, and that's why, as a result of that, they
established this rule that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, I didn't
understand you. I thought you said that the toxicity in
the slurry was tested and killed 99 or whatever percent
of these invertebrates.
MR. WALDO: They took that slurry, they let
the solids settle down in the bottom, and then they
tested the solids for what effect it would have on some
fresh water organisms, because they were trying to
determine whether the lake would be able to recover from
depositing all these solids into the lake. And they
found that it had a very high toxicity level. And so
what they did to try to remedy that was require
depositing native vegetation on the top of all of that,
after the mine closes. And they are hoping that that
will have the effect of letting the lake recover. But
EPA concluded that it will take decades, if ever, before
the lake can recover from that.
So this is not some benign wet-sand kind of
discharge. It's a toxic slurry with a high pH level and
with effects that are going to last for decades. And if
EPA -- if section 404 is interpreted to allow these
kinds of discharges to be emitted exempt from effluent
limitations, it eviscerates key requirements of the
Clean Water Act. EPA is required to regulate sources of
this type through effluent limitations. EPA is required
to regulate the suspended solids through effluent
limitations from industrial sources like this. So --
JUSTICE BREYER: If, in fact, you have this
mix, and it satisfies -- it goes to an effluent part and
a fill part, in your view, what -- if the statute says
both agencies regulate, they have to meet both, one or
the other? How does it work?
MR. WALDO: If there's an effluent
limitation, the effluent -- there's a performance
standard under section 306. The performance standard
must be complied with under section 306(e). And the
only way --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You say this is 404; it's
not 402 --
MR. WALDO: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It is 306?
MR. WALDO: 404 is not appropriate here
because there is an effluent limitation. With fill
material --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it is fill.
MR. WALDO: It's fill material, but it's not
fill material that is available for a section 404
permit. And EPA has always regulated discharges from
sources like this, that meet that definition of fill
material. EPA has had an effects-based definition of
fill material since virtually the beginning of the Clean
Water Act.
JUSTICE BREYER: So fill material is only
that material as to which no effluent standard applies?
MR. WALDO: No, it's fill material. In this
case, it's fill material, but this fill material is not
eligible for a 404 permit.
JUSTICE BREYER: 404 material is material
such that it is fill material and there is no effluent
standard applicable?
MR. WALDO: Yes, that's correct. And --
JUSTICE ALITO: So, it's 95 percent solid,
but there's an effluent limitation, and your position is
that there can't be a 404 permit; it has to be a 402
permit?
MR. WALDO: If it's covered -- if that
discharge is covered by an effluent limitation, yes,
that's correct. And I want to be clear about this
point, that EPA -- well, I guess my time is up.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead. Finish
your thought.
MR. WALDO: Okay. EPA amended its
regulations in 1979 specifically to recognize the fact
that some discharges of fill material are not eligible
for section 404 permits and require NPDES permits. At
that time, the regulations said you don't need an NPDES
permit if it's fill material. EPA amended that
regulation to say you don't need an NPDES permit if it's
fill material and it's subject to section 404 of the
Clean Water Act. And the purpose of that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Waldo.
MR. WALDO: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Olson, you have
three minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. OLSON: What the Respondents would wish
to do is to have this Court disagree with the agencies'
interpretation of the statutes which they administer,
their consistent interpretations of those statutes, and
the factual findings that a whole slew of agencies made
with respect to the subject matter of these permits.
The preamble of the 202 -- the 2002 fill
regulations specifically says -- this is 31,135 of
Federal Register Volume 67 -- EPA has never sought to
regulate fill material under effluent guidelines.
Never.
There was an agreement, a memorandum of
agreement between EPA and the Corps of Engineers in
1986. It is cited at the United States Government brief
at page 27. The EPA and the Corps agree -- and this is
in response to your question, Justice Breyer, and I
think something Justice Kennedy said and something
Justice Souter said with respect to what if there are
two things in the stream going into the water. Fill
material remains subject to 404 permitting even if they
occur in association with discharges meeting 402
criteria. That's the answer to that question. And the
-- and the EPA --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I thought -- I thought
your brother would say: But that does not respond to
306 effluent.
MR. OLSON: 306 provisions in the statute
are not made applicable to 404 permitting, and the
consistent regulatory history from 1973 -- and it's all
set out on page 27, or summarized on page 27 of the
government's brief -- are that 301 and 306 are not
applicable under the 404 process.
And if there was any doubt at all, there is
a -- the so-called mine tailings memorandum at pages 141
through 145 of the joint appendix in which three top
officials of the EPA construe what they call the rules,
the regulations, and the statute. This is both
agencies. Under the plain regulation language of the
rule -- this is page 145a -- under the plain language of
the rule and the agency's interpretation of the
regulation in its preamble, the mine tailings that are
to be placed into an impoundment are covered by 404.
And it specifically addresses this --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Why does that mean anything
more than you've got to get a 404 permit without
addressing the question whether you can get a 404 permit
if it has, in effect, the -- the -- if it has the
effects which are supposed to be regulated by the
effluent limitations?
MR. OLSON: That precise question,
Justice Souter, is addressed on pages 143, 144, and 145
of this memorandum from top officials of the EPA,
applicable to this particular mine and these particular
discharges --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Where is -- where is that
in the appendix?
MR. OLSON: That's on pages 141 through 145a
of the joint appendix.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But as I read that
sentence, Mr. Olson, it says they are subject to both
permitting.
MR. OLSON: No, it doesn't. It says -- with
due respect, Justice Stevens, it says on the bottom of
page 144: "As a result, the regulatory regime
applicable to the discharges under section 402," and so
forth. What -- I think one thing that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You are talking about the
last sentence on --
MR. OLSON: There is a 402 permit in this
case, too there is a 404 permit with respect to material
going into the lake and a 402 permit for the material
coming out of the lake into the waters of the United
States.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Olson. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:06 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
58:22 37:17 42:13 51:10,13 52:2 30:4 37:1,5,12 assume 7:7
41:11 47:19 48:4 allow 29:12 53:4 43:23 46:25 34:18
agencies 4:14 13:11,13,13 40:13 54:12 30:8 47:16,17
5:5,8,11 12:20 14:22 47:23 29:3 31:18 authorizes
9:1,12,14 15:2 18:3 19:6 aluminum 34:14 36:5 37:7,13 27:22
14:18 19:17 20:24 41:5 37:14 40:2,4,9 available 36:5
21:5 24:7 21:5,11 26:24 ambiguity 20:2 41:14 42:22 54:5
29:7,8 38:4,5 40:25 21:9 applying 18:20 avoid 38:16
31:5,20 42:15 46:23 amend 29:2 appropriate a.m 1:22 4:2
54:10 53:14 55:22,25 amended 55:5 15:8 28:5 58:21
57:8 55:10 53:25
11:4 16:7,17 17:18 animal 48:11 45:10 48:5 16:22 55:19
24:2 23:7 26:22 answer 5:13,14 50:16 back 11:15
45:22 agency's 16:5 19:10,10 44:11 7:20 38:20 48:22
57:10 44:12 50:25 area 9:7,9,12,22 bad 45:9 49:24
33:4 34:19 anymore 32:21 18:3 26:2 based 15:2
agreed 19:18 40:3 44:19 argument 1:21 basin 10:23
22:15 56:7,8 apparently 48:1 16:22 27:9 baskets 19:3
18:24 AL 1:8,16 1:23 Army 4:17,24 beginning 19:14
1:15 2:4 4:4,5 58:1,3 13:20 19:18 begins 27:22
12:22 13:21 31:9 42:17 23:2,8 24:16 2:4 3:4,7,9,12
26:25 Alito 13:9 28:8 24:6 27:15,17 40:18 42:10 27:10 55:20
22:3,5 27:17 circumstances 17:2 construction
46:18 35:15 40:16 citizens 31:11 compliance contain 23:16,19
50:24 50:13,18 54:14 clause 28:16,18 37:9 53:19 34:25
15:15 cases 19:22,22 14:18 17:1 31:3 38:13 35:7
22:22 category 33:17 21:5 28:15 composition content 32:19
26:3 cement 33:16 29:7,8 31:5,20 26:5 continue 42:15
39:1 34:13 53:7 54:9 conceded 32:23 42:21
40:21 challenge 7:17 55:13 concept 19:12 contradiction
52:14 challenged 7:5 clear 14:6 42:14 concerns 7:3 6:24
change 15:15 50:12 55:1 11:4 contradictory
22:4,13 changed 47:21 client's 46:16 52:24 contrary 28:24
24:10 changes 21:17 close 19:22 conclusion 47:8 29:1 31:5
changing 14:19 closes 52:22 48:2 conventional
38:17 26:4 closing 44:20 concrete 33:4,10 50:15
39:3,7 charged 4:14 coal-fired 34:14 33:16 Corps 4:18,24
chemical 26:5 Coeur 1:3 4:4 condition 26:21 7:23 8:13,19
48:19,21 48:25 12:22 46:23,24 conditions 27:3 10:22 11:14
chemicals 35:7 cold 10:2 Congress 4:14 12:13 13:2,20
53:11 Chief 4:3,13 collective 4:24 16:3 17:1,22 14:23 15:7,10
56:11 5:12 16:19,21 15:2 18:11,16,20,22 17:4,20 18:6
56:9 27:6,11,21 11:15 24:19 27:13 19:18 20:1,3,8
28:16 31:12,17 44:12 48:2 consequence 20:14,15 22:15
42:5,8 39:4 49:12 48:4 49:7,24 39:10 40:1,12
57:6 55:3,14,17 6:17 12:19 18:2,7 26:24 56:10
Cholesterol 47:7 considers 24:16 21:20 25:21
54:19 46:5,12 determined 54:6 55:7 14:19 19:14
decisions 14:2 10:15 13:21 56:16 57:24 20:8 23:14
define 12:25 determines 31:7 29:19 52:15,23 57:17
23:3 defining 6:15 8:10 47:17 effects 8:10
27:21 5:21 6:3 7:3,5 different 9:2 10:25 14:13 53:3 57:18
13:25 10:20 13:3 13:14 18:3 dispose 8:22 54:8
27:12 14:23 15:3,21 19:12 25:7,7,8 20:11 45:24 effluent 4:19
55:22 19:16,19 20:6 25:9 44:22 disposing 8:1,7 5:15,23,25 9:1
54:24 49:23 54:7,8 dilute 50:22 distinct 10:23 29:10 30:11,13
57:12 definitions 51:3 16:3 17:1 30:16,19,20
26:23 directly 31:9 doubt 14:1 29:6 35:21,23 36:1
47:5 18:2 disagree 19:6 downstream 37:16,16 38:6
destruction 49:23 51:14,19 E 3:1 4:1,1 19:3 33:25
53:3 15:24 28:14 discharges 8:25 easier 33:11 55:7
15:23 31:2,10,12,13 effect 6:6,9,10 emitted 53:5
31:19 32:20,25 Excuse 38:19 fill 4:16 5:3,10 27:4 40:16
34:5,10,12 53:5 5:24 6:12 7:4 48:6,11,16,17
42:9 43:22 existent 13:1 13:3 14:3,5,7 follow 18:24
6:13 7:23 44:24 45:19,21 expanse 45:4 15:3,15,21 followed 18:5
13:2 47:3,7,13,16 expenditure 16:4,13 17:3 Forest 13:21
15:7,11 47:20,21,23 18:5 17:11,13,21,24 form 12:3,4,5,25
18:7 49:3,4,6,21 experience 8:7 19:3,6,7,13,19 13:1
20:1 51:24 52:24 14:22 15:2 20:3 21:16,17 formula 27:17
22:15 53:4,7,8 54:6,8 44:15 22:18 23:1,7 forth 24:5 58:11
24:16 55:2,5,10 56:4 expert 4:14 25:7 29:4 30:3 found 9:5 50:4
30:7 56:8,10,18 48:15 30:4,8 33:5,5 52:19
36:4 38:3 57:6,22 expertise 4:24 34:2,8,9,10,18 fresh 52:16
40:2,12 EPA's 6:16 7:22 34:19,20 35:9 friends 34:1
42:11 28:22 33:12 explain 16:11 35:10 37:13,15 froth-flotation
47:7 45:8 51:21 23:5 41:3,12 39:1,4,5,9 40:1 27:20
56:8 ESQ 1:24 2:2,4 extent 20:2 21:9 40:9,20 41:10 function 20:25
established 43:5,10,14,20
13:11 ET 1:7,16 fact 7:25 8:12 54:11,13,14,14 4:8,9,12 5:4,16
14:16,17 etcetera 24:19 28:7 34:9,10 54:17 55:7,10 5:24 7:2,14 8:3
23:15 evaluating 42:17 43:22 55:12 56:2,5 8:9,17 10:8,12
13:24 evaluation 18:6 53:11 55:6 filling 14:12,15 12:7,20 13:4,7
evasion 21:1 factory 30:24 20:19 41:22 13:9,12 14:16
8:9 11:6 Everybody 17:9 factual 55:25 fills 22:22 39:3,8 19:12
15:19 Evidently 44:5 failure 18:13 finally 18:8 GEN 1:24 3:3
17:6,12 eviscerates 53:6 falls 13:2 find 7:9 21:22 4:9
18:6 exactly 39:17 farther 38:11 36:7,14 38:15 general 1:24 4:8
42:7 fat 22:10 findings 55:25 4:12 5:4,16,24
examined 26:22 federal 2:1 3:4 Finish 55:3 7:2,14 8:3,9,17
20:2,4,7 example 5:17 4:10 43:7 56:4 finished 26:16 10:8,12,24
22:17,23 33:16 feed 48:11 27:5 11:13,20 12:7
excepted 9:6 feet 9:21 13:18 first 4:4 7:2 12:20 13:4,7,9
28:9 exception 9:4 21:23 22:1,18 10:13 39:15 13:12 14:16
29:2,6,8 38:12,15,16 22:19,19,20 fish 10:17 11:5 15:13 16:19,20
21:14 GREGORY I 55:23 57:10 23:19,22 24:10
1:24 3:3 4:9 idea 21:22 interpretations 24:13,21,24
26:19 31:22 identify 46:12 invertebrates 27:6,11,21
15:4,16 33:18,25 49:1 46:24 52:12 28:8,12,16,21
55:2 illegal 44:3 involve 45:4 29:2,11,17,22
45:2 guidelines 4:19 impacts 45:8 involved 18:1,2 29:25 30:2,10
23:15 25:15 38:7 38:15 issued 4:20 8:21 33:9,18,25
42:2 56:5 implies 31:25 18:9 35:22 34:17,23 35:4
55:3 important 11:21 issues 35:23 35:8,12,18
17:19
42:10 habitat 11:5 25:2,5 31:4 issuing 17:18 37:4,11,18,22
habitats 10:17 32:24 45:18 38:17,19 39:3
9:8,20,24 handle 7:10 impoundment JA 7:15 40:8,15 41:9
happens 19:5 9:7,9,12,22,23 January 1:19 41:24 42:5,8
22:7 40:7 10:3,6,7,21,22 JA-141 16:9 42:23 43:4,8
14:20 42:18 51:6,8 16:14,16 42:11 joint 6:22 57:5 43:13,18 44:1
17:24 hard 40:24 57:12 58:3 44:5,14 45:2
22:13 harm 15:25 16:1 included 20:19 jointly 20:1 45:11,14 46:5
25:24 heads 16:10 21:6 judgment 4:24 46:13,16 47:3
hear 4:3 41:8,12 includes 6:4 14:25 15:1 47:11,14,18,24
39:14 heard 24:13 20:4 24:5 26:1 21:10 48:5,9,13,19
39:23,25 49:2 including 11:4 Juneau 2:4 48:21 49:9,12
53:3 help 40:11 41:4 17:9 26:23 jurisdiction 49:19 50:2,6
58:16 high 13:18 34:7 independent 6:16 33:12 50:19,25 51:5
17:3,8 hobby 48:22 53:10 7:7,24 8:4,6,12 54:11,16,20
31:15 Honor 16:20 inert 26:4 8:18 10:2,10 55:3,14,17
hoping 52:22 instance 44:6 11:20,25 12:12 57:14,21,25
38:4 horse 48:22 intended 28:19 14:9 15:4,5,16
huge 45:5 16:19,21,24 K
43:11 hypothesized interim 26:16 18:8,12,15,15 keeping 46:1
16:1 interpret 39:24 19:5,11,21 Kennedy 5:1,4
54:3 language 57:8,9 27:3 mean 7:8 8:4 misinterpreta...
law 12:18 long 10:10 13:1 14:12 22:21 28:15
leave 6:12 longer 13:1 32:10 33:20 mix 53:12
52:11 letting 52:23 lot 22:22 41:12 means 28:2 morning 4:4
45:19 level 21:18,23 mediation 47:1 mutually 17:2
22:5,19 52:19 M meet 53:14 54:7 17:16,17
53:5 levels 34:7 51:4 21:2 56:16 N
26:18 27:4 45:10 33:16 34:14 49:23 named 41:6
39:7,7 48:6,11,11,16 Marine 23:16 memo 16:10 national 45:19
49:12 50:16 material 4:16 memorandum native 52:21
limitation 30:19 5:10,10,21,21 16:9,10 56:7 natural 10:3,23
35:21,23 8:11,23 9:9,20 merits 7:13 navigable 27:19
50:10 53:17 14:4,7,10,10 48:8,9 50:24
54:1,21,25 15:3,16 16:4 middle 10:5 nearby 13:19
13:22,23 limitations 16:13 17:3,13 mill 30:24 necessarily
15:10 18:13,18,21 19:4 20:3 milligrams 50:13
29:10 30:20 23:17,18 26:4 41:21 necessary 38:16
23:1 31:1,3,8,21 30:8 34:2,9,10 million 18:6 need 28:3 29:14
26:2,4,6 33:1 36:5 37:2 34:20 37:15 millions 45:15 55:9,11
37:8,9,16 38:6 41:13,15 42:19 mills 27:20 never 14:6 20:19
27:3 38:12 40:13 42:23 43:10,14 34:13 41:5 22:17 38:5
33:4,22 41:8,14,16 43:21 44:8 mind 11:21 41:13 42:15
38:25,25 42:17,21 44:9 49:23,25 54:2 mine 4:16 6:10 43:3 46:13,16
42:12 44:13 49:8 54:4,5,8,9,11 12:19 16:8 47:21 56:4,6
44:8 50:1 53:6,8,10 54:12,13,14,14 27:18 43:20 new 9:16 27:14
57:19 54:16,16,17 44:20 46:22 35:16,19 42:8
48:6,15 liquid 5:18 55:7,10,12 52:22 57:4,11 42:13
50:21,22 31:23,25 32:1 56:5,15 58:15 57:23 Ninth 7:16
51:1,2,3 32:19 58:16 mines 20:4 46:11
52:4 listed 41:7 materials 21:8 mining 14:14 nontoxic 25:12
liter 41:21 25:17 46:11 25:14,17 40:14
little 33:10 40:5 matter 1:20 5:16 mining-related non-fill 35:9
45:20,24 living 11:16 26:8 56:1 58:22 minutes 55:18 notice-and
16:22 27:9 14:24 20:16 piles 45:5 28:21 35:24
ore 34:13 41:5 46:17 29:18 34:24 47:22 49:21
51:22 29:14 51:8 possible 30:4
11:4 51:20 52:16 9:14,19 17:13 15:21 23:23 possibly 36:11
21:25 ought 15:1 17:21 18:8,10 27:2 potato 22:10
24:5 outside 51:7 18:25 20:12 placed 57:12 poured 22:22
36:24 43:11 56:10,25 47:7,12 49:3,5 point 7:6,14,17 preamble 14:5
51:3,6 56:25 57:9 54:6,15,22,23 11:2 16:8,25 43:7,9 56:2
pages 57:4,21 57:16 58:14,15 20:23 24:2,3 precise 57:20
Pardon 24:12 permits 4:20 32:23 39:8,9 28:18
18:14 25:13 7:19 8:20 44:22 45:18 preferable
20:13 part 11:2 30:18 17:24 18:4,22 50:20 51:13 13:24 23:15
21:20,24 35:2 53:12,13 19:4 27:22 52:2 55:2 46:3
23:6 particular 6:6 30:5,9 36:6 pointed 19:12 preferred 44:24
24:1 28:5 30:20,24 37:23 38:7 pollutant 6:4 44:24 47:4,23
43:17 57:23,23 42:22 46:25 12:14 22:8,14 47:24
parties 5:7 55:8,8 56:1 22:16 23:1 present 19:23
26:9,12 parts 7:6,15 permitted 4:17 26:1 29:24,25 25:5 31:6 32:1
27:7 passage 14:18 5:8 17:5 41:19 38:23 40:17,20 presented 29:1
38:20 paying 49:16 43:24 50:14 pretty 10:2 51:8
55:17,19 Pentagon 13:19 permitting 5:6 pollutants 5:9 primary 7:25
56:22 46:19 47:5 14:5 16:3 17:2 16:4 40:14 8:19 13:12
58:2,5,7 People 44:16 18:4 19:2 23:7 50:15 problem 6:2
percent 5:18 31:6 56:15,23 pollution 6:16 7:11 10:21
40:25 54:20 1:13 pond 10:11 15:9 13:14
performance Petitioners 2:1,3 15:11,12 42:11 problems 15:20
36:18 27:15,16 29:3 16:23 31:5 50:23 process 11:6
34:6,21 put 6:8 11:24 reasoned 21:10 40:22 41:5,25 53:7,8
44:3 15:14 19:3 reasons 47:20 54:6 57:18 requirements
46:1 26:2 33:10,23 rebuttal 3:10 regulates 41:13 16:17 45:20
41:5 40:19 55:19 regulating 34:13 requires 28:21
putting 13:22 reclaim 14:11 6:23 12:17 reserve 25:25
44:2,7 13:23 42:24 55:11 58:15
35:20 quality 11:5 reconcile 12:21 regulations 25:6 Respondent 7:4
15:23 17:23 reconciled 9:18 37:5 55:6,9 respondents 2:1
49:24 49:20 regulatory 6:22 15:17,25 17:10
question 5:13 26:25 56:24 58:9 response 40:9
17:7 30:18 52:17,23,25 26:14 responsibility
16:5 37:21 40:5,8 reduced 51:23 51:1 restored 26:19
32:9 51:1 56:11,17 16:25 remains 56:15 22:3,4 52:7
R 4:1 regard 32:20 30:20 right 8:18,20
21:23 22:6 regime 6:22 41:18 19:14 20:7
38:8 raises 22:5 27:24 28:23 repeat 35:24 25:17 26:8
27:22 rarely 47:21 16:3 17:2 represent 46:7 43:12 45:12,13
38:1 rate 51:23 Register 43:7 representations 45:16,17 47:18
raw 34:6 56:4 46:21 48:19,21,22
56:22 realize 31:4 regular 38:25 43:11 51:15 52:3,6
14:23 40:25 44:15 31:20 32:25 require 15:23 16:15,16 17:23
20:9 47:11 42:9 53:7,9,14 34:15 41:16 river 15:14
55:13 reason 9:2,2 56:5 44:13 45:24 29:13,20 30:15
40:19 9:3 14:4,7 24:8 required 13:15 ROBERT 33:25
18:12 SCALIA 5:22 settled 7:22,24 6:11 32:5,9,10 speak 32:9
27:6,21 23:19,22 25:12 8:4,4 32:11,17,19 specifically
25:14,19,22 settling 10:11,23 33:23 45:24 26:25 45:21
29:2,11,17,22 15:9,11,12 54:20 55:6 56:3
41:9 29:25 30:2,10 26:2 34:16 solids 6:4 12:2 57:13
42:5,8 30:14 43:18 41:17,18 42:2 12:15 29:9,10 specified 10:25
43:4,8 44:1,5,14 47:3 42:4,12 43:21 31:18,20,23 17:22
45:11,14 47:11,14,18,24 44:16 50:23 32:1,7,25 34:7 squarely 7:5
52:1,9 48:13 side 12:6 34:1 34:16 35:2 stacks 13:17
scenario 27:1 44:18 41:19 52:6,7 stage 20:14
scheme 16:2,12 significant 22:6 52:14,15,18 standard 19:23
17:11 section 4:18,20 simplified 38:21 47:4 35:17,20 36:18
24:2 5:8,10 8:25 9:1 38:21 sorry 29:16 36:19,20 40:2
43:2,5 9:11,14,21 simply 6:7,15,23 30:18 37:20 40:4,5,9 50:9
52:8 11:2 12:9 13:8 12:13,14 15:22 43:5 46:15 53:18,18 54:12
14:4 15:18,23 20:20 22:21 52:9 54:18
24:7 27:13 43:15 47:12 40:3 51:7 11:19 15:22
18:23 30:8 36:14 sit 15:5 48:10 30:11,13,16
49:14,16 37:1,10 38:5 site 44:24,25 sought 12:22 36:16 37:2,13
38:13 41:20 46:24 56:4 37:14 39:20
53:4,18 sites 10:25 sound 10:16 43:23 51:24
sections 18:16 situation 20:12 source 9:16 18:3 26:24
29:12,13 sediment 51:18 39:13 31:2 33:17 41:12
30:15 see 36:24 39:8 situations 48:3 35:16,19 States 1:1,22 9:7
49:14 six 15:20 sources 30:21 9:13,24 12:8
27:22 33:19 29:12 35:1,6,8 10:2,10,19 statute 10:24
40:3 sentence 58:5,13 48:23 50:17 11:8,14,20,25 21:10 23:4
separate 9:14,25 51:12,15 52:11 12:12,24 13:6 28:24 29:1
27:18 seriously 11:10 small 32:19 26:12 56:13 37:18,24 38:8
42:9 Service 13:21 smelters 34:14 57:14,21,25 49:13 53:13
49:11 set 24:5 56:25 41:6 Southeast 1:6,15 56:22 57:7
56:3 sets 39:20 Solicitor 1:24 4:5,6 statutes 39:21
settle 52:14 solid 5:18 6:10 so-called 57:4 55:23,24
14:1 16:2 31:20,23 32:10 THEODORE 23:17,23 24:6 47:20
28:23 32:25 34:7 2:2 3:6,11 25:20 36:6 understanding
18:8 42:21 58:11 toxicity 51:21,24 49:22
T things 8:21 52:10,19 United 1:1,21
56:14 tailings 4:16 48:10 49:20 transitory 23:20 12:10,18 15:7
16:8 21:7 think 5:6 6:2 7:4 treating 10:22 42:6 56:9
take 5:17 13:10 12:20 13:4 treatment 9:4 unpredictable
27:24 38:11 17:18 19:9 51:17 unqualified
9:13,15 taken 14:18 46:9 25:10 32:4,16 36:12 37:24 untenable 15:22
16:14,16 49:22 38:22,22 39:19 try 31:5 38:10 unworkable
37:15 takes 22:16 39:22 41:3 52:20 14:24
42:19 24:15 49:15 56:12 trying 43:20 use 27:20 34:15
56:1,15 talk 51:16 58:11 52:16 41:16 43:20
talking 10:8 thinking 14:10 two 5:5 6:5,8,17 45:20
33:19 43:1,6,9 THOMAS 2:4 16:3 17:1 19:3 v 1:5,14 4:5,6
terms 17:17 thousands 13:18 types 16:12 15:19 17:13
terrible 22:11 57:5 U 47:13,16 48:3
40:22 time 12:7 13:10 unacceptable 49:19 50:2
12:22,25 19:17 42:20 55:2,9 47:19 48:4 view 45:8,9
48:7 52:11,15 top 51:21 52:21 21:14 23:4 violated 49:15
12:2 16:19,20 27:6 tourist 45:6 52:10 violation 27:15
Washington 47:4 zero 33:1 16:6 32:6
56:4 33:14 45:25 whichever 32:11 306 9:1 18:18
28:1 1
35:3 word 12:2 19:19 57:1
10 50:15
44:4 words 5:23 306(e) 27:13
10:04 1:22 4:2
46:1 39:12 36:14 53:19
100 13:16,17
11(a) 24:3
11:5,12,24 workable 19:20 24:7
11:06 58:21
14:18,20 20:25 21:4 31,135 56:3
12 1:19 7:15
16:11 working 46:10
35:1,6 122.2 9:5 4
19:15 46:11,23
36:1 1328 27:23 4 3:5 15:23
23:14 works 21:15
1344 27:23,23 40 9:5 39:15
26:5 40:11
141 57:4 58:2 41:1,4,25
29:7,8 world 23:18
39:2,5 143 57:21 43:19 44:14
33:3 worry 39:25
144 57:21 58:9 402 4:21 5:8 8:1
worse 44:19,19
41:2,11 145 57:5,21 8:8,15,25 9:3
41:22 worst 22:8,16
145a 57:9 58:2 9:14,25 14:4
50:8,24 23:17 48:25
146 16:9 16:17 18:16,17
53:7 worst-case 27:1
16 3:7 24:18 25:12,14
55:13 worth 46:2
1973 14:2 56:24 28:2,4,24 31:7
wouldn't 15:15
1979 55:6 33:11 34:4
1986 56:9 35:14,25 36:11
25:16 32:16,20 36:17
27:19 41:17 41:21 50:6 2 36:12,22 37:4
49:6,11 42:6 45:23 writing 39:21 37:23 41:20
24:5
50:3 46:2 58:17 written 23:12 42:22 53:22
22:19 41:21
51:3,6 waterway 15:9 wrong 12:1 54:22 56:16
52:5 way 10:10 25:9 58:10,14,16
53:16,23 31:5 33:25 404 4:18 5:11
7:25 8:5,8
54:4,13 39:25 40:21 x 1:2,9,11,17 6:13 8:14,20
19:18
55:5 47:12 49:7,20 9:11,19,21
51:21 53:20 11:2 12:9 13:8
17:19 13:15 17:5 18:16,22
15:20 2009 1:19
30:3 weeks 47:2 19:6 20:12,12
34:12 202 56:2
50:12 weight 32:6,10 21:15 24:17
41:1,4 27 3:9 56:10,25
55:1 weren't 9:3 14:9 25:19 27:24,24
43:19 56:25
44:7 48:3 wetlands 13:16 44:14 46:22 3 31:7 35:14,25
39:4
47:7
56:15
57:2,12
58:15
38:7
17:21
23:11
49:11
9:21 22:18
9:10
7:15
3:12 5:18
22:19
56:4
43:11
48:23
43:11
32:10,17
18:5
51:20 54:20
52:11
