IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-1224
GRAYDON EARL COMSTOCK, :
JR., ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, January 12, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for
oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United
States at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GEN. ELENA KAGAN, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department
of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
G. ALAN DUBOIS, ESQ., Assistant Federal Public
Defender, Raleigh, N.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GEN. ELENA KAGAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
G. ALAN DUBOIS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GEN. ELENA KAGAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 08-1224, United States v.
Comstock.
General Kagan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. ELENA KAGAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
GENERAL KAGAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
Article I of the Constitution permits
Congress to enact section 4248, which is the limited
Federal civil commitment statute at issue in this
case.
To see why, to understand the basis for this
statute, it might be helpful to go all the way back to
1945, when what this Court later called "a
conspicuously able committee of Federal judges"
recommended that Congress pass section 4246, a very
similar civil commitment law that has been on the
books for some 60 years.
The committee there wrote that the law was
necessary to deal with what it called the serious
problem of what to do with insane criminals -- and I'm
quoting now -- "upon the expiration of their terms of
confinement, where it would be dangerous to turn them
loose upon society and where no State will assume
responsibility for their custody."
That is exactly what Congress concluded
here. Congress could reasonably find that section
4248 was necessary to prevent a similar problem. The
Federal Government has mentally ill, sexually
dangerous persons in its custody. It knows that those
persons, if released, will commit serious sexual
offenses; and it knows too that States are often not
in a position to deal with such dangers, not in a
position to take custody and care and responsibility
for those persons upon release from Federal prison.
This is essentially a transitional problem
that the Court was -- that the Congress was dealing
with, how to manage the transition from Federal
custody to State superintendence and responsibility.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is part of the
statutory scheme that you can be committed to Federal
custody for, say, a year and then the State takes it
over?
GENERAL KAGAN: That is correct, Justice
Kennedy. In fact, what the statute requires is for
the Attorney General really to -- immediately upon
commitment, to go to a State, if he hasn't done so
beforehand -- to go to two States, the State of
domicile and the State of prior conviction.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why would a State want to
incur that extra expense if --
GENERAL KAGAN: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- if the Federal
Government is going to do it for them?
GENERAL KAGAN: What Congress found was that
States often were not willing to incur that extra
expense, even if the Federal Government was not going
to do that for them, and what this legislation was,
was a response to that reality. It was --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was the experience
under 4246? You pointed out that that has been on the
books for some time, and there efforts must be made to
have the State take the person.
When the civil commitment is used following
the end of a term -- let's say someone is insane --
how often does it end up that the State takes
responsibility and how often is it that the person
stays in Federal custody?
GENERAL KAGAN: I think it is unusual,
Justice Ginsburg. It's not the usual course that the
State does take responsibility. But the Federal
statute commits the Attorney General and the Bureau of
Prisons to try to persuade a State to take custody, to
defer to the State if a State has some reason to take
custody, but -- but makes sure that the Federal
Government is a kind of backstop, so that if the State
does not take responsibility and does not take
custody, the Federal Government will ensure that the
person will not be released, the person who has been
found to be both mentally ill and sexually --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the likelihood is
that the person will stay in Federal custody?
GENERAL KAGAN: I think that that's fair,
that the likelihood is that the person will stay in
Federal custody until such time as a court finds that
the reasons for that custody have lapsed. But, again,
the State always has the ability to come in and say:
We would like to take control over this person. And
more to the point, the Attorney General has the
responsibility to keep going to the State and to try
to see if he can transfer custody to the State.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what -- what power
conferred upon the Federal Government by the
Constitution permits the Federal Government to assure
that sexual predators are not at large?
GENERAL KAGAN: I think the power, Justice
Scalia, is the power to run a responsible criminal
justice system, to run a criminal justice system that
does not itself endanger the public.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you would say
that the Federal Government has no such power
independent of the criminal conviction? In other
words, that Congress could not pass a law saying, just
as this one says, we are going to commit people who
are sexually dangerous until a determination that they
are not or until the State can take them? That power
would not be in Article I?
GENERAL KAGAN: Without the person having
entered the criminal justice system in any way.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. I understand
your argument to be that this power is necessary and
proper, given the fact that the person is in Federal
custody for some other reason, criminal conviction.
GENERAL KAGAN: That has been the
government's case throughout this litigation, that it
has always depended on the fact of Federal custody, on
the fact that this person has entered the criminal
justice system, has been -- four of the five of these
people --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
GENERAL KAGAN: -- have been convicted and
have served prison terms. And the question really is,
well, given that, given that the Federal Government
has custody of these people, that it's difficult for
the States to -- to take responsibility for these
people after the prison term is finished.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why doesn't
the Federal Government's authority to have custody
because of the criminal justice system end when the
criminal justice system is exhausted? In other words,
when the sentence is done?
GENERAL KAGAN: Because the Federal
Government has a responsibility to ensure that release
of the people it has in its custody is done
responsibly, is done in such a way --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you said no. I mean,
there is no constitutional power on the part of the
Federal Government to protect society from sexual
predators. And, you know, once the Federal custody is
at an end, it seems to me that's the only power you
could be relying upon.
GENERAL KAGAN: I think that the power to
run a responsible criminal justice system extends to
the way in which the Federal Government releases these
prisoners. And --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could the Federal
Government order a commitment of anyone who's been in
Federal custody over the last 10 years?
GENERAL KAGAN: Justice Kennedy, I think
that that would be a much harder case. There are some
people, of course, who are on supervised release and,
for example --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no, no. That makes
your -- my hypo too easy for you.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL KAGAN: Okay. Well, I'll grab your
difficult hypo, then. And I would say that that would
be a different case and that the Federal Government
would not have the -- the power to commit a person who
is -- has been released from prison and whose period
of supervised release is also completed. At that
point, the release has been -- the transfer to State
responsibility and State control has occurred, and the
Federal Government would have no appropriate role.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that must be because
there is a lack of Federal power.
GENERAL KAGAN: Yes, I think that that's
correct, that at that point the State police power
over a person has been fully reestablished.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's fully
reestablished once he walks out of Federal prison, at
least if he walks out of Federal prison into a State.
GENERAL KAGAN: I think that that's not
right, Justice Scalia. I think that there is a
transition period, and what this statute is designed
to do is to deal with that transition period and to
make sure that sexually dangerous, mentally ill people
don't fall through the cracks between Federal custody
and the reestablishment of State control.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but they don't fall
through the cracks if the Federal Government notifies
the State into which this prisoner is to be released:
We are going to release a prisoner; we think he's
sexually dangerous; you should take some action to be
sure that he doesn't harm society. Because that's a
State police function, it's none of our business.
GENERAL KAGAN: I think Congress could
reasonably find that that is insufficient. Congress
could reasonably find that the State -- that the
relationship between the State and the individual has
been sufficiently disrupted as a result of what is in
many of these cases an extended period of Federal
custody, that it's not so easy to establish --
reestablish it all at once. And I would point to you
as proof of this the supervised release system itself.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under your theory --
under the theory that you are proposing, then, any
dangerous person, whether it's because of mental
illness or any other reason, could be held
indefinitely --
GENERAL KAGAN: No --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- under a civil
commitment statute, because what you're saying is that
the Federal Government, merely because of their --
their time in control of the individual, has an
unlimited constitutional power to then civilly commit
this dangerous person.
GENERAL KAGAN: I think what would prevent
that, Justice Sotomayor, is the Due Process Clause.
It is obviously the case that there are other
constraints on governmental action than Article I.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, what -- what
constrains the government under the Due Process Clause
from invoking a dangerousness merely because someone
has a long history. We have many criminal defendants
with long histories of violent behavior. Many of them
continue that violent behavior in prison, and some of
them at the end of their term are let out, because
their term has been completed. So what -- what in
the Due Process Clause protects --
GENERAL KAGAN: Well, I think that the
history of this Court's cases would suggest that if
this were a person without mental illness that the
civil commitment statutes --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's where I'm
trying to understand --
GENERAL KAGAN: Yes, that the civil --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the connection
between the nature of the mental illness and the
constitutional power that you are claiming. What --
what is it that gives you that power?
GENERAL KAGAN: Well, if you go back to a
case like Kansas v. Hendricks, which is of course
where this Court thought about civil commitment
statutes with relation to sexually dangerous
offenders, I think the Court made clear that it was
important in that case that there be not only sexual
dangerousness, but also mental illness, in order to
invoke the civil commitment statutes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you saying that as
far as those limitations, the question that Justice
Sotomayor was asking, the limitations on the Federal
Government would be the same as they are on the
States? But that's a different question from whether
the Federal Government has any power at all.
GENERAL KAGAN: You said it better than I
did, Justice Ginsburg. That's exactly right, that of
course there are constraints on the Federal Government
in using civil commitment statutes, that they are the
same as the -- the constitutional constraints on the
States when they use that power. But this is a
different question. The question presented here is
only whether -- assuming that the Federal Government
is acting within other constitutional constraints in
making this civil commitment, whether Article I
enables it to do so because of the special custodial
role in these cases. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: General Kagan, you are
relying on the Necessary and Proper Clause, right?
You say: But "necessary and proper" doesn't mean it's
necessary and proper for the good of society. It
means it's necessary and proper for the execution of
another power that the Federal Government is given by
the Constitution.
Now, why is this necessary for the execution
of any Federal power? The Federal criminal proceeding
has terminated. The individual is released. You
could say it's necessary for the good of society, but
that's not what the Federal Government is charged
with. Why is it necessary to any function that the
Federal Government is performing? It has completed
its performance of the function of incarcerating this
individual until he has served his punishment.
GENERAL KAGAN: The Court has always said,
Justice Scalia, that the Necessary and Proper Clause,
the question is, is it necessary and proper to the
beneficial exercise of Federal powers? And so this
is, that it is necessary and proper to the beneficial
or, what I said before, the responsible exercise of
the Federal power to operate a criminal justice
system, which includes the responsibility to ensure
that those people who have been in custody in that
Federal -- in that criminal justice system are not
released irresponsibly.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't it the case that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the brief -- excuse
me.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I was going to ask, is
it the case that the unwillingness of States to step
into this area in these instances is a consequence, at
least in part and perhaps in large part, of the
Federal incarceration, that as a result of the Federal
incarceration, the person is no longer viewed by the
State as -- as having domicile within the State, the
State of prior domicile has no way of knowing whether
that person would return to a domicile in the prior
State? Is that -- do you think that is a fair
understanding of the reason for the enactment of this?
GENERAL KAGAN: Just to make sure that I
understand the question, that the reason for the
enactment in part has to do with the fact that the
Federal Government has assumed custodial
responsibility and has disrupted the relationship
between the State and the citizen, I think that that's
exactly right, Justice Alito.
But in some sense, it's not just that the
Federal system finds itself in possession and custody
of these people, but the Federal -- what Congress
could reasonably find is that the Federal Government
knows that there's nobody else to take appropriate
custody and care and that the reason that there's
nobody else to take appropriate custody and care has
to do with the Federal action itself.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, is the prisoner --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, if there were --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it -- is it a prisoner
who has served his time in, say, a Federal
penitentiary in Ohio but is a domiciliary of Arizona,
what happens when the prisoner is released, say, after
10 years? Released to Ohio, sent back to Arizona?
What?
GENERAL KAGAN: The default position is that
the prisoner is released to the place where the
prisoner was convicted. Now, that -- the prisoner may
or may not have any relationship with that State. The
person may have lived there, may not have lived there.
The -- the Federal prison system does
sometimes make other arrangements. The idea behind
any release is to try to make sure that the person is
released to the place where a -- a future lawful life
will be most likely. But in many of these cases, the
prisoner ends up being released to a State that has no
current relationship with the -- with the prisoner,
sometimes has had -- never had any relationship with
the prisoner, and at any rate doesn't now, because the
period of Federal custody has disrupted that
relationship.
And what the Federal Government is doing
here is essentially to deal with this transition
problem to make -- to make sure these people don't
fall between the -- the cracks, and to ensure that
where there is a sexually violent and mentally ill
person who one has reason to believe will commit
further offenses, that appropriate care and custody of
those people is ensured.
Now, this is no different from what Congress
has done on other occasions as well. This is not the
first such Federal civil commitment statute. This is
not a newfangled thing. Section 4248 is identical in
-- in all relevant constitutional respects to section
4246, which is the general civil commitment statute
for mentally ill, dangerous people generally, not with
any sexual --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But, General --
GENERAL KAGAN: -- component to it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understood you in
your response to Justice Alito to say, if I remember,
that it was not just the fact of Federal custody, but
the fact that there are no States or there may well
often be no States willing. What if every State is
willing; I mean, every State is willing to take the
people on out of a concern to protect their citizens.
Does that somehow mean there's no necessary and proper
power?
GENERAL KAGAN: I think when we are dealing
with the Necessary and Proper Clause, we are asking
ourselves whether Congress reasonably acted in a given
situation --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess it wouldn't
be necessary, is what you are saying?
GENERAL KAGAN: Well, if -- if -- that's
exactly right, that if the facts before Congress were
such that there were no difficulty with this
transition period and that nobody ever fell between
the cracks, an entirely different question would be
presented, and then there would be some kind of
argument that at that point, in those circumstances
State police power would be the appropriate default
position. But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: General Kagan, I -- I find
it difficult to believe that if the Federal Bureau of
Prisons wrote the governor of the State into which
this person is to be released, and they try to release
him in the State where he -- he will in the future
reside, and said, we are about to release this person
in 60 days or whatever, in our view there are serious
mental problems, and we think the State ought to
consider commitment proceedings, I find it difficult
to believe that an elected governor or an elected
attorney general would ignore that letter.
GENERAL KAGAN: I do believe, Justice
Scalia, that Congress reasonably could have found that
there were difficulties in making this transition.
The cost of commitment of these people is very high,
much higher than standard incarceration. I believe
the States say in their amicus brief that it's some
$65,000 a year per person per year, and -- and the
State may feel as though it shouldn't have
responsibility over this person --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The governor is going to
say that at the next election: It would have cost too
much to put this guy up.
GENERAL KAGAN: Well, I think people ­
people make judgments --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You know, it costs $65,000.
GENERAL KAGAN: People make judgments all
the time. And I think there's -- there's no evidence
to suggest that Congress was not acting reasonably in
understanding this as a significant problem. And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was it -- was that a
consideration? You mentioned that this originated,
4246, with a -- with a committee of judges who said,
we have a problem. Did they --
GENERAL KAGAN: That is exactly right,
Justice Ginsburg, and maybe that's the -- the best
answer to Justice Scalia, is history, and it's history
on two separate occasions, which this Court has noted.
It's history when -- when this committee of
Federal judges chaired by Calvert Magruder, including
Learned Hand, said we have a real problem here with
people being let go out of the Federal system and the
States not stepping forward and taking responsibility
for them. And the Court confronted and -- and thought
about the exact same problem when Congress passed in
1984 section 4243, which is the civil commitment
statute that applies to insanity acquittees, people
who are acquitted on the basis of insanity.
And this Court in Shannon said that, I think
the -- the language is, "Federal courts decried time
and again the gaping statutory hole," that is the hole
that -- that existed because people were acquitted on
the basis of insanity and -- and States were not
willing to step forward and take custody of those
people in the way that they would have taken custody
of those people if they had been acquitted of insanity
in the State court systems.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I must say I'm -- I'm not
terribly impressed with -- with the argument --
GENERAL KAGAN: I can tell, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the States won't do it.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, this -- this is a
recipe for the Federal Government taking over
everything.
GENERAL KAGAN: No, I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The States won't do it;
therefore, we have to do it. It has to be done, and
therefore the Federal Government steps in and does it.
GENERAL KAGAN: I don't think so, Justice
Scalia. I think, in fact, that -- that Congress on
each of these three occasions has limited the civil
commitment power only to people who have been -- who
are in the custody of the Federal Government and over
whom the Federal Government has a distinctive
responsibility.
I will give you an example, Justice Scalia.
I mean, suppose that there was some very contagious
form of drug-resistant tuberculosis that had -- had
become prevalent in the prison system, and States were
not able to deal with that, with quarantining these
people upon their release date, and Congress said:
You know, the best thing to do is to have the Federal
Government act as the appropriate quarantining
authority because we don't think that States are able
to step up and deal with this problem.
Would anybody say that the Federal
Government would not have Article I power to effect
that kind of public safety measure? And the exact
same thing is true here. This is exactly what
Congress is doing here, is to make sure that mentally
ill, sexually dangerous --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, when I was thinking
about your hypothetical, I thought, well, that's a
pretty easy commerce power argument. I -- I notice
that in -- in the government's position, you don't
argue the Commerce Clause very much, and I -- we've
got Morrison v. Brzonkala looking at you and Printz
and so forth.
But it -- suppose Congress said there is a
class of committable, dangerous sex offenders that are
crossing State lines and using interstate facilities,
and made those findings. Would that be sufficient to
establish a Federal commitment law?
GENERAL KAGAN: Well, as you say, Justice
Kennedy, the government has never argued the Commerce
Clause here in the sense that it has never argued that
these activities have a substantial effect on
interstate commerce, and it hasn't done so because of
the Morrison -- the Morrison precedent.
The Commerce Clause I think is relevant in
two ways. It's relevant first because, of course,
it's often the Commerce Clause that gives rise to the
power to criminalize conduct and to punish people for
that conduct. So I think in -- in three of the five
of these cases, the initial power to criminalize the
conduct is based on the Commerce Clause.
The Commerce Clause is also relevant here
because the Commerce Clause does give rise to a set of
Federal laws having to do with sexual offenses, sexual
solicitation of a minor, sexual exploitation of a
minor when interstate commerce is involved, and when
the Internet is involved. And we do think that that
provides an additional basis, not a sufficient basis,
but an additional basis to -- to approve this law in
the sense that these are the people who are most
likely, really, to violate such Federal laws which are
based on the Commerce Clause in the future.
And the reason they are most likely is
because all of them have done it once before, and all
of them have been found to have the kind of mental
illness that makes it --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's -- but that's
an easier case, because at least you have an
interstate connection to the offensive conviction and
the ground for future commitment. But these statutes
don't depend on that element being a part of the
commitment process. There's no -- there's no
congressional -- there's no tie to a congressional
power that justifies the commitment other than that
the person is sexually dangerous.
GENERAL KAGAN: The -- the essential tie to
a congressional power is the tie of these people to
the Federal criminal justice system because they are
in Federal custody.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's that special
relationship.
GENERAL KAGAN: That's -- that's right. And
in addition to that, these are the people who are most
likely to violate Federal laws based on the Commerce
Clause in the future -- most likely to violate such
laws because they have done so in the past and because
they have mental conditions that make it extremely
difficult --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But isn't it true that
this statute applies even if a person has not been a
sexual offender in the past?
GENERAL KAGAN: It -- it does, Justice
Stevens. There have been 103 --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So that argument doesn't
take care of that --
GENERAL KAGAN: Just to put some numbers on
the table, there have been 103 people who have been
certified under these laws. Eight under -- under this
law. Eighty-three of them have committed sexual
offenses; 20 --
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but my point is the
law applies to a person who is convicted of armed
robbery or bank robbery, and just before the end of
his term in prison the authorities decide he is in
fact a potential sexual offender. They can detain
him.
GENERAL KAGAN: Yes, yes, that's right. As
I was saying, 20 of these people fall within that
category, that -- that they are in prison for a
nonsexual offense.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right.
GENERAL KAGAN: All of those people have had
prior sexual convictions in their history.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But that's not -- that's
not a necessary element of the -- of the statute --
under the statute, is it?
GENERAL KAGAN: What is necessary is two
things: First, that the person in fact have engaged
in sexually violent behavior or child molestation. So
there's a factual predicate there. And -- and so far,
the Bureau of Prisons has found that about 15,000
people whom it has reviewed meet that factual
predicate. Of those, the Bureau of Prisons has
certified only 105 of those, who were also found to
have the kind of mental illness that made it
reasonably likely that -- that they would continue to
commit this -- these kinds of offenses.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about release from the
Army? Would that -- would that also -- if I want to
turn this -- this person after discharge at -- you
know, loose upon the society, could the Federal
Government commit that person?
GENERAL KAGAN: Mr. Chief -- excuse me,
Justice Scalia -- I didn't mean to promote you quite
so quickly.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thanks for thinking
it was a promotion.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I'm sure you didn't.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL KAGAN: Justice Scalia, I -- I do
think that the military has special responsibilities
with respect to those people in it. In general, I
would say that the relationship between a prisoner and
a -- and a jailer is more comprehensive than any other
kind of relationship that one can name.
But I do think that the military
relationship approaches that. And in the military, I
think the military indeed would take this kind of --
these kinds of facts extremely seriously, probably
would commit such a person and -- and try very hard to
transfer that person eventually to State custody.
If I can reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. DuBois. Is it "due-BWAH" or --
MR. DUBOIS: It is, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. DuBois.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF G. ALAN DUBOIS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. DUBOIS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I really think the government gives the game
away a bit in its opening statement when it
characterized this law as a law that was necessary to
prevent the problem of releasing sexually dangerous
individuals. And I don't think that that is what the
Necessary and Proper Clause is designed to do.
The power to enforce the law which brought
the defendants into Federal custody in the first place
has been exhausted. The defendant has been tried and
convicted, and he's sentenced and he's served his
sentence. That law has been fully vindicated. At
that point, any further detention must stand on an
independent constitutional footing. It cannot --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you -- Mr. DuBois, do
you take that same position with respect to not guilty
by reason of insanity? Someone is convicted, say, in
the District of Columbia -- say, John Hinckley is
found by the jury to be not guilty by reason of
insanity, must he then be allowed out of Federal
custody, and it depends if his home State or any other
State wants to pick him up?
MR. DUBOIS: No, Justice Ginsburg. I think
not guilty by reason of insanity is a -- is a
different case for a couple of reasons. First off,
the commitment that flows from a not guilty by reason
of insanity verdict is directly linked to the Federal
law which brought you into custody in the first place.
The person is found to be -- to have been committed
the crime, but he is only -- he is only excused from
punishment for that crime by basis of his mental
illness. So there's a direct link between the -- the
crime which brought you into Federal custody and your
subsequent commitment.
The other distinction, of course, is that
not guilty by reason of insanity must be pled by the
defendant, and in some sense the commitment is in lieu
of punishment; it's not an additional punishment
tacked on at the end of the sentence. So I don't
think that the infirmities of 4248 are at play at all
in --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so what's the power
that the Federal Government is exercising when it
commits someone who has been found not guilty by
reason of insanity?
MR. DUBOIS: They are vindicating their
interest in the specific criminal law which brought
the individual into custody, which presumably in most
cases -- in all cases, I guess -- is supported by an
enumerated power. It is -- as I say, the commitment
is -- is a substitute for punishment, it's in lieu of
punishment, but it's directly linked to the crime
which brought the individual into Federal custody.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. DuBois, what is your
answer to the hypothetical that General Kagan posited?
Supposing after a man has been sentenced, say, to 30
days for gun possession, 20 -- 10 days before he is to
be released, it's determined he has a communicable
disease -- he would spread a disease if he gets out.
Could the -- could the Federal Government have the
power to detain him at the end of the 30 days?
MR. DUBOIS: Well, Your Honor, I think a
single individual with a single communicable disease,
a defendant with tuberculosis --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right.
MR. DUBOIS: -- or something of that nature,
I don't think would -- would call for that type of --
of Federal Government --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It may not call for it.
My question is would it have the power --
MR. DUBOIS: I would say --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- not to release him,
because there -- there's strong evidence that, as soon
as he gets into the society, the disease will -- will
pass to others?
MR. DUBOIS: Well, Your Honor, I would say
that, in the same way that mental health is a uniquely
State function, so too is public health. And we would
say that, no, the Federal Government cannot detain
that person past the end of his sentence, and that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We -- we have a Federal
agency that's -- that deals with communicable
diseases. It's part of the National Institute of
Health, I believe. Is that agency ultra vires? I
mean, aren't communicable -- I mean, if anything
relates to interstate commerce, it's communicable
diseases, it seems to me.
MR. DUBOIS: I was about to say, Your Honor,
you know, that's the -- that's the other I think
significant difference that Justice Kennedy pointed
out, that there is a clear hook to interstate commerce
when we are talking about communicable diseases, and
that hook is simply not present.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why -- why not? I
mean, is there anything to prevent the United States
Government to say: Mental illness is a serious
problem in the United States, and we feel the States
sometimes do a good job, sometimes they don't, but we
want to set up a group of Federal mental hospitals and
treatment centers of the most modern kind, and in
these circumstances, there will be a handful of people
who pose a threat to themselves or others, in which
case they must be restrained.
There might be due process problems, whether
you have the right person, whether they should be
restrained, et cetera. But doesn't the Constitution
give authority to the Federal Government to set up a
system of mental illness prevention and cure, if in
fact they determine that that's a desirable use of
Federal money?
MR. DUBOIS: No, Justice Breyer, I don't
think the Federal Government has that power.
JUSTICE BREYER: It doesn't have the power
to set up hospitals?
MR. DUBOIS: It doesn't have the power to
detain individuals as a result of their mental illness
based on the fear that they are going to go out and
commit a crime.
JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, if the
doctors were to say, there are a thousand people here
suffering from mental illness, your own daughter or
mine or someone has a -- is threatening suicide or
threatening murder? There are lots of real cases like
that, where people have terrible times, and there are
not adequate State facilities. And were the Federal
Government to say, this is a problem that we wish to
go into and help with, you are saying the Constitution
prohibits that? Where does it prohibit it?
MR. DUBOIS: Well, I think -- I think that
would not be a very large extension, if it's an
extension at all, of the holding in Morrison, that the
Federal Government could not do that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Try the Tenth Amendment.
MR. DUBOIS: Or the Tenth Amendment, Your
Honor. And --
JUSTICE ALITO: But do you -- do you think
that the Congress has the power to remedy problems
that are caused by the operation of the Federal prison
system, caused by incarceration?
MR. DUBOIS: That would certainly not be the
case here, Your Honor. All of these individuals --
there is no claim that these individuals became
mentally ill while in the custody of the Bureau of
Prisons. These are all, as far as I understand,
illnesses which predate their entry into the Federal
prison --
JUSTICE ALITO: What about the general
proposition that if -- if the incarceration causes a
problem, then the Federal Government has the power,
ancillary to the power to operate the -- the criminal
justice system, to remedy the problems that it has
caused by the incarceration?
MR. DUBOIS: Well, Your Honor, I think they
have a power, but it's not an unlimited power. That
power is addressed by statute --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I didn't hear. You think
they have a power to --
MR. DUBOIS: They have a power, but it's not
an unlimited power. There is a statute, 4245, which
allows the government to transfer an individual who
becomes ill while in the custody of the Bureau of
Prisons, to a psychiatric facility for care and
treatment. Now, by the terms of that statute,
however, that commitment must end at the end of their
sentence, and I think that would be the extent of the
government's power.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because the government --
JUSTICE ALITO: Why as a matter of
constitutional law does it end at that point?
MR. DUBOIS: Because at that point, the
government has no live Federal interest. They are --
they have effectuated the power which brought the
person into custody. They have fully vindicated the
- the criminal law that brought them into -- into the
prisons.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose, in Justice
Alito's hypothetical, he caught the communicable
disease in the prison as a result of poor prison
conditions.
MR. DUBOIS: Well, and I'm sure stuff like
that does happen, Justice Kennedy, and, again, the
government does, while the person is in the custody of
Bureau of Prisons, is entitled to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no. The hypothetical
is that his sentence ends, and they want to commit him
to a Federal health facility.
MR. DUBOIS: Because he has -- he has caught
some disease --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. DUBOIS: -- while in the system? Again,
I think -- first, as a practical matter, I don't think
any prisoner would take that deal. They would rather
be treated in the community. So it becomes a question
of whether the person can be held for the safety of
others, and again, I think the answer is no.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what if the person is
simply injured in prison as a result of, let's say, an
attack by another prisoner, and now the sentence
expires. The Federal Government has no power to set
up hospitals or facilities to care for that person for
the duration of the -- of the injury that's -- that
was caused during the period of incarceration?
MR. DUBOIS: Your Honor, I think the Federal
Government would have no power to do that. The --
while the individual is in the custody of the Bureau
of Prisons, the Federal Government does have a limited
parens patriae power to see to their care and
treatment.
Now, I think we are getting a little bit far
afield from the, you know, indefinite, potential
lifetime detention at issue here and whether, under
doctor's orders, the -- tells the person, well, you
ought to stay in the hospital for an extra week so
this leg sets properly -- you know, something of that
limited duration, perhaps, might be a good --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, once you're down that
road -- I was rather surprised, but not too surprised,
that, I think perhaps with prompting, I heard you say,
I think, that the Tenth Amendment would prohibit the
Federal Government from setting up a system of mental
care, which you'd better tell the people across the
street, if that's your view.
The -- the -- is that what you are actually
saying?
MR. DUBOIS: That the Federal Government
cannot set up a system of --
JUSTICE BREYER: Of national mental care for
mentally ill people.
MR. DUBOIS: Well, again, that would have to
--
JUSTICE BREYER: Because you either think
that the Constitution prohibits that or you think it
permits it.
MR. DUBOIS: Well, I think it would have to
relate to an enumerated power, and it would have to be
--
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, probably the Commerce
Clause power.
MR. DUBOIS: -- in furtherance of an
enumerated power.
JUSTICE BREYER: So it's fine --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: The government can spend
money on whatever it wants. That's the spending
power. They can set up hospitals. The issue is
whether they can force somebody into a hospital, not
whether they can set up hospitals.
I was going to ask you to tell us why the
sky will not fall if we -- if we go the way you would
like us to. I assume that if the problem is that the
States are unwilling to incur the expenses for these
people, that Congress could pass a statute saying the
Federal Government will pay the expenses of any
prisoners released from Federal prison.
MR. DUBOIS: Absolutely, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it seems to me that
statute, combined with a letter to the elected
governor, who probably wants to be re-elected, or the
elected attorney general, will make it pretty certain
that the State will take over the responsibility for
the individual.
MR. DUBOIS: Well, that's absolutely
correct, Your Honor, and that -- and that option,
which we -- we definitely believe is the best option
-
JUSTICE STEVENS: But, of course, that goes
to -- that goes to the question of the wisdom of the
statute. I think, as the case comes to us, we have to
assume that there are cases out there in which there
will be no solution such as the one Justice Scalia
proposes.
MR. DUBOIS: Well, I don't know --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I think that's why
Congress acted, because they think there are such
cases.
MR. DUBOIS: Well, I don't know that you can
make that assumption, and to the extent that the --
the fear is that the State will decline
responsibility, I do not think that Federal power can
expand or contract based on a State's willingness or
unwillingness to accept a responsibility --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But we are asked to decide
a question on the assumption that there are States and
there are governors who will not react to the problem
of particular prisoners who are released in Arizona or
some place when they originally came from Michigan or
whatever it is. I think we have to assume that there
are cases in which the statute would -- would play a
role.
MR. DUBOIS: Well, Your Honor -- Your Honor,
I think that may be right, but there -- but there are
-- the question is: What's a constitutional response
to that problem? We can imagine plenty of
unconstitutional responses. For instance, a person --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Absolutely, and that's why
it seems to me that the constitutional answer is the
same in this statute as in the case of somebody who
incurs a very communicable disease and the government
wants to prevent him from infecting the community.
Why is it a different constitutional question?
MR. DUBOIS: Well, I think the different
constitutional question is -- again, I do not believe
the Federal government has a general quarantine power
that doesn't -- that would allow it to hold prisoners
past their release date.
I think that is a public health problem,
except for -- to the extent that there may be a closer
nexus to a forward-looking Commerce Clause hook that
doesn't exist in this case. The government's argument
is purely backwards looking. They -- they locate the
power to commit --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand. It's purely
backwards looking, and it takes care of the case that
-- the premise of the government's argument is that
the release itself is a Federal act that has to be
done responsibly, and the very release, if it causes
harm to the community, can be prevented.
MR. DUBOIS: And it seems to me that the
government's argument essentially collapses into the
notion, well, if it's a good idea, it must be
necessary and proper to do it. I think that's just
simply not correct. It's very -- we're going --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's more than the
question of good idea. You're talking about
endangering the health and safety of people, so it's
-
MR. DUBOIS: Well, there --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The government has some
responsibility, doesn't it?
MR. DUBOIS: Absolutely, the government --
the government has a responsibility, but they have
certain constitutional limits that also must be
respected. So the statute --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but you say, if the
State is unwilling to take the person, and apparently,
that is the problem that precipitated 4246 and, now,
4248, and that -- you -- the Federal government is
just helpless short of passing a spending measure and
saying, State, if you do this, we'll give you the
money.
MR. DUBOIS: Right. And -- and -- well, I
think there's -- there's a number of weapons in the
Federal Government's arsenal. First of all, there's
the Federal spending power. Second of all, there is
already, in the statute of 4042, a specific duty to
warn, just as Justice Scalia was positing. It already
exists.
Any time the Federal Government is going to
release a person they believe to be violent or
dangerous, they are required to warn the attorney
general of the State within a certain period of time
before their release.
At that point, I do believe it becomes a
problem of the State polity. If the State governor is
going to be cavalier about that type of release, then
I think the answer for that lies in the voters of that
State, to say, no, we want you to take this problem
seriously and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, he's not going
to be cavalier. He doesn't have -- he's going to say:
Don't do it. This is a dangerous person, the Federal
government; don't release him.
MR. DUBOIS: And he's going to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you want the
Federal Government to have to be in the position of
saying, well, we have to.
MR. DUBOIS: Exactly. The Federal
Government has to, and at that point, the State must
make that hard political decision. Do we want to take
this person on, spend the money necessary to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it may be the
Federal Government's hard political position. They
are the person holding them, and the attorney general
is saying, don't release him, and then the Federal
government is going to make the decision, well, we
have to.
MR. DUBOIS: And so, in that sense, it's no
decision at all because the Constitution requires that
they be released.
JUSTICE BREYER: The -- go back once more
because I am obviously getting nowhere with this, but
I thought that, if you set up a set of hospitals, as I
think the government could do, there will be a few
people, sometimes, who have to be restrained in those
hospitals for themselves or others' benefit.
If you set up a system of mental hospitals,
that's even more true. If you set up a university,
some people will be sick, and they will be in the
infirmary, and occasionally, you will come across a
person who has to be restrained, et cetera.
Now, once you are down the road where you
admit the government can do that, how is a prison any
different?
MR. DUBOIS: Well, I --
JUSTICE BREYER: You set up a prison where,
in fact, occasionally, people have to be restrained
for health reasons, et cetera, and just as in the
other cases, sometimes that can last past the normal
release date, so can it in prison.
Maybe there's a better way, but why isn't
this just a normal part of running this institution,
just as it is in the other cases?
MR. DUBOIS: Well, we'll just start -- I
think, a couple of responses. First of all, this is
- that is no part of the government's argument in this
case. Their -- their argument is a backward-looking
argument that locates its power in the fact that they
have had these people in their custody, and they can't
responsibly let them go.
What you are positing is more of a forward
looking argument that would essentially create a
Federal parens patriae power, that the Federal
government has --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm not, actually. I'm
just showing you the connection between running an
institution, which, for whatever set of reasons in the
Constitution, you have the authority to do, and then
it becomes, as part of that institution, part of the
job to take care of people in a certain way.
Sometimes that requires a restraint, and
sometimes that restraint could last beyond the period
where in the absence of that need the person would no
longer be part of the institution. That's true of a
hospital, of a mental hospital, and of a prison.
Whether they rest on the same power or a different
power, the government has the power, Federal, to
establish all of those institutions.
I'm just drawing institutional connections.
That's -- that's what I'm saying. Maybe that's an
unnecessarily complex argument, but I was just seeing
it that way.
MR. DUBOIS: Well, it -- it is complex,
Justice Breyer, and it's also, I think, historically
- the Federal Government has not historically thought
to have been able to have the sort of general parens
patriae power that -- that the States do enjoy to take
care of the health and well-being of its citizens. I
think it would be quite a step for the Federal
Government to embark on an enterprise of that nature.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't -- don't States have
involuntary commitment procedures?
MR. DUBOIS: Every State does, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, couldn't the Federal
Government fund a Federal -- would you find a
constitutional problem in the Federal Government
funding an office which brings involuntary commitment
proceedings in a State where a prisoner is released
when the Federal Government believes --
MR. DUBOIS: There would have --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the prisoner is unsafe?
MR. DUBOIS: There would be absolutely no
problem with that, Your Honor. The Congress, with
spending power, would have clear ability to fund that
type of program run -- run and administered by the
States.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I presume the State
couldn't -- if the -- if the Court says commitment is
proper, the State would have to accept the commitment,
no?
MR. DUBOIS: Yes, absolutely, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So why don't they do that?
MR. DUBOIS: They should do that. I mean,
what they are doing here is what they can't do. Just
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: I guess we can all think
of a lot of different statutes Congress might have
enacted. We have to decide whether this one is
constitutional.
MR. DUBOIS: And, Your Honor, I think that's
absolutely right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but most of the
argument for why this is constitutional is simply it's
necessary, and therefore it's constitutional. But I'm
not even sure it's necessary.
MR. DUBOIS: Well, I think that's right,
Your Honor.
And to answer your question, Justice
Stevens, you are absolutely right. And I think there
-- there are many tools that Congress has at its
disposal to address this problem. The spending power
is one. Every one of these individuals would be on
Federal supervised release.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, that's one of the
things that you mention in your brief. You said you
could vary the conditions of supervised release, but
you were not at all specific about that. You said the
Federal Government -- the person has gotten out, they
know the person is dangerous, so what -- what are the
measures that they would take to do what you said in
the brief the Federal Government could do; that is,
set the terms of supervised release in order to
account for sexual dangerousness?
MR. DUBOIS: Well, the first thing they can
do is act as a liaison between the individual and the
State. Every one of these individuals will have a
Federal probation officer who will be responsible for
their supervision during the period of supervised
release. They also have the ability to go back to the
court of conviction and seek modifications of the
terms of supervised release, that they have certain
concerns --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what would the
modification be?
MR. DUBOIS: Those modifications could
include things like mandating mental health treatment
during the term of supervised release, certain
limitations on travel, certain limitations on
activities with computers. A fairly large range of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that doesn't take
care of the fact that the prisoner would be released
before there was a cure found for the alleged mental
illness, meaning supervised release generally has a
term limit.
MR. DUBOIS: That's correct, Your Honor.
And I think that concern, the -- the fact that we want
to do something before the release is addressed by
4042, which is the duty to warn statute.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could -- what would
happen if Congress said, as part of a sentence, a
judge could incorporate a civil commitment finding and
say: You are going to serve X amount in jail and Y
amount, and then we are going to civilly commit you
indefinitely, because as of today, I am finding you a
sexual predator subject to a mental illness.
Would that be constitutional, and if not,
why not?
MR. DUBOIS: Well, that would not be
constitutional, Justice Sotomayor, because of the
indefinite nature of the commitment. You can envision
a system -- and we had that type of system in the
'50s, '60s, and '70s -- of indeterminate sentencing,
where --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I -- let's assume
it incorporates all the protections of -- of this
statute with respect to periodic review.
MR. DUBOIS: So if we have an indeterminate
type sentence where you -- you get a sentence of 10
years and you are periodically reviewed to see if you
are safe to be released, of course that's
constitutional.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So it's constitutional
because it's part of the sentence?
MR. DUBOIS: That's exactly right, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Because it's
--
MR. DUBOIS: It's a part of the sentence.
It's part of the punishment for the crime which
brought you into custody.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, so that would be
true whether or not you were convicted of a sex crime
or a tax crime or any other crime, so long as the
judge was making a finding that this was necessary to
protect the public?
MR. DUBOIS: Sure. A judge -- whether you
are being sentenced for bank robbery or -- or some
sort of sexual offense, the judge can take into
account the whole of your criminal history in
determining what you are being sentenced for, but you
are still only being sentenced for the crime for which
you are convicted. And that would be cabined by the
varying statutory maxes for each specific offense.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right --
MR. DUBOIS: That's why in this case it's --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But what you're saying
is, then, that the nexus is -- the nexus with the need
for the criminal justice system or the proper and
necessary power to address this problem ends at the
point of sentencing, is what you're saying?
MR. DUBOIS: That's correct, Your Honor. At
that point the enumerated power which supported the
crime has been fully effectuated. It has been
exhausted. There is no further backward-looking
Federal power to be vindicated under Article I.
Now, there may be a forward-looking power.
If there is one, the government hasn't identified it.
But that's where the constitutional justification
would have to be found in this case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it says that it
exists as a result of its control over this
individual, its special relationship, and the fact
that at the end of the sentence, it has an obligation
to the public.
MR. DUBOIS: And -- and that really is, I
think, historically, sort of an anomalous argument in
the sense that civil commitment has never been thought
to be part of the criminal justice system. They are
two separate spheres of government control and
government authority. And while they may intersect at
the State level, a State doesn't civilly commit its
citizens based on the fact that it's running a prison
system or the fact that it has them in custody. It
commits these people based on their parens patriae and
general police powers.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about someone who is
incompetent to stand trial? I take it you think that
that's a perfectly proper application of 4246?
MR. DUBOIS: I believe that is correct. I
think under Greenwood that type of commitment is
appropriate.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does it matter that the
person who has been found incompetent to stand trial
has now been in custody for three times longer than
the maximum sentence?
MR. DUBOIS: I do not think that that is
constitutionally significant, because -- well, there's
a couple of reasons. But the first reason is, again,
you have a direct link to the unexhausted power. The
power to prosecute still exists, and the government's
interest only isn't the interest in punishment; the
government does have an interest in obtaining a
conviction, which is still alive. And if the person
does restore -- regain competency to the extent that
he can be tried, he can be convicted. Even if he
cannot be -- he cannot be punished any further, he
still can be tried and convicted, and the government's
interests can be vindicated.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even though it may be
purely imaginary; that is, that this particular
person, all of the experts agree, will never be
competent to stand trial.
MR. DUBOIS: And I think that was the -- the
logic or the trade-off in Greenwood, which was that we
were not going to require courts to make finely
grained determinations about whether or not this
person or that person might regain competency, and
just decide to have a simpler test that commitment is
appropriate as long as the Federal Government's
interest has not been exhausted or vindicated.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could you explain why the
constitutional power that provides the basis for a
Federal criminal conviction is exhausted at the end of
the -- either the maximum term of imprisonment that
Congress chooses to establish when it enacts the
statute or at the end of the particular term that is
given to this prisoner?
I understand why it's relevant for statutory
purposes. It may be relevant for other constitutional
purposes -- double jeopardy and due process -- but why
as a -- why does the power, the Commerce Clause power,
the power to make rules for Federal property and so
forth, why is that exhausted at the end of the --
either of those two periods? I don't quite understand
that.
MR. DUBOIS: Well, I think the reason, Your
Honor, is that at the time of conviction and sentence,
the interest in -- the official regulation of
interstate commerce, say, has been vindicated by this
person's conviction for doing an activity which
Congress has judged to be interfering with interstate
commerce. And that --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, only to the extent
that that's what the statute says. Take whatever the
offense is, would it be a violation of the Necessary
and Proper Clause? Let's say it's a commerce -- it's
based on the Commerce Clause. Would Congress exceed
it's powers under the Commerce Clause if it imposed a
sentence of life imprisonment without the possibility
of parole?
I mean it raises other constitutional
questions, but why does it raise a question as to the
extent of the power that's being exercised by -- by
Congress?
MR. DUBOIS: Well, Your Honor, I think
Congress does have almost unlimited authority to set
statutory maximums for different crimes based on their
estimation of the severity of the crime. I -- I don't
see that that causes a problem. The problem here is
that there is no necessary connection between the --
say, the regulation of interstate commerce and the
desire to prevent primarily local sex offences. It's
very difficult to say how preventing general, State
type violent crimes has anything to do with the
regulation of interstate commerce. And that's what
this --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, there is -- there is
in the sense that the relation between the prisoner
and his or her State is disrupted for, say, 15 years,
and then this person is just a derelict.
MR. DUBOIS: Well, I really think that that
argument the government raises is a bit of a red
herring. I have been practicing as a Federal defender
for a very long time. I have never yet had a
defendant where the Bureau of Prisons didn't know
where to send them. And there has never been a case
where a defendant did not have a State to go to, and
-
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where do they send them?
The last residence where --
MR. DUBOIS: The -- the default is -- as the
government indicated, is the court of conviction, the
place of conviction, which is probably about 90
percent of the time their home State, anyway. But if
-- if they are from a different home State, generally
the Bureau of Prisons tries to come up with a release
plan to release them to their State of domicile. And
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: I want to follow up on
Justice Alito's question. Supposing Congress passed a
statute that said at the expiration of every sentence,
the prisoner shall examined for certain reasons, and
if he fails certain tests, he shall not be released
for another 30 days. Say he should be examined to
determine whether he is a sexual predator. And that's
in every -- every sentence at the time of the
sentence?
MR. DUBOIS: And every -- and then,
following that examination, they could be then
detained indefinitely?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right. And it says so in
the statute.
MR. DUBOIS: I do not think that that would
be constitutional, Your Honor, because it still would
have to be part of the punishment for the crime.
Civil commitment is a civil --
JUSTICE STEVENS: One of the elements of the
punishment is that you are subjected to this
examination that otherwise you wouldn't have to take.
It seems to me maybe your case boils down to the fact
that -- that Congress hasn't written the right
statute.
MR. DUBOIS: We do not know that this
statute cannot be written constitutionally. All we
know is this statute is not written constitutionally,
because it is effectively unlimited. It effectively
does require no connection between the underlying
criminal charge and the subsequent commitment. You
can be in custody for any crime whatsoever. It
doesn't have to be sex-related. You can never have
been convicted of a sex offense whatsoever.
So it really is -- there's almost a complete
de-linking of the crime which brought you into Federal
custody and your subsequent commitment. Can we
imagine hypotheticals that -- that create a link, that
rolls it into the punishment? Perhaps, but that's not
this statute, and this statute must fail for that
reason.
If there's no further questions, Your Honor,
I thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
DuBois.
General Kagan, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. ELENA KAGAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
GENERAL KAGAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
What Congress said here was something pretty
simple and very reasonable. It said if we, the
Federal Government, have somebody in our custody, and
we know that that person has the kind of mental
illness that's going to cause grave danger to the
community, and we know that there is no one else who
is in a good position to prevent it, and we know that
we are in part responsible for that vacuum, then we
should be able to do something about it. That's what
section 4248 says, and section 4248 is constitutional
for that reason.
Justice Scalia has several times suggested
that maybe there is no experience of this, but I think
that the facts of the Judicial Conference Committee
report, stating that there were these problems with
respect to mentally ill people generally, rebuts that.
So, too, this Court's view in Shannon, that section
4243 was necessary because there was a gaping
statutory hole where States were not willing to step
forward, rebuts that as well.
In fact, it is not and has never been the
case that the test here is whether a government action
is absolutely necessary to aid or effect a
governmental or congressional power. The wisdom of
the statute here is not what's at issue: Maybe this
is the right statute; maybe there might be a better
one. The only question is the constitutionality of
the statute. That sort of wisdom, whether there might
be a better statute, that's for Congress to decide.
Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
27:7 44:15 46:7 43:16 50:8 25:19,21 33:2
44:20 15:8 17:10 57:3 bank 25:1 49:16 35:14 54:19
32:20 33:6 34:2 Arizona 15:21,23 based 22:24 55:5
58:16 53:12 armed 24:25 38:15 51:1,3
arrangements basis 3:15 20:5 C 2:1 3:1
39:5
45:11,20
58:4
36:3 asking 12:20 11:20 25:17 24:18 33:21
35:4 39:6 assumed 15:5 believes 45:8 12:11,15 14:13
46:12 assuming 13:6 beneficial 14:5,6 14:17 23:16
15:16
attorney 4:24 43:10 58:7,10 54:20 56:4 58:3
42:8 54:16 11:25 13:10
authority 8:6 books 3:21 5:15 29:8 32:7 38:4
16:22 44:2 50:24 31:22 32:3 43:12
21:16 53:25 35:25 36:11,15 category 25:7
52:13 a.m 1:14 3:2 36:21,25 42:15 caught 34:11,21
3:3,7 7:14 47:8 28:12,17 29:6 cavalier 41:15,20
20:16 22:2 backstop 6:4 29:12 34:6,8 centers 31:9
27:7 backwards 49:9 56:17 certain 37:19
41:11 53:17 57:20 55:9 56:5 57:7 50:23
47:10,16 clear 12:14 30:25 communicable 58:10 convicted 7:24
55:11,12 45:13 29:17,22 30:16 congressional 16:2 24:25
Columbia 28:2 community 35:2 connection 12:6 52:1 56:15
43:7 come 6:15 42:24 competency 54:4 56:11 7:5,16 23:17
commerce 22:2,4 complete 56:16 consequence 55:1,2
8:5 30:20,25 36:21 44:17 19:14 37:23 40:7
17:7,9,22 39:18 52:25 component 17:8 conspicuously 47:24 50:5 51:8
27:3,6 53:8,11,15,16 comprehensive 3:18 cost 18:22 19:4
41:19,24 53:17 54:5,9 26:19 Constitution costs 19:8
56:25 57:5 commit 4:9 7:7 computers 47:18 3:11 6:22 13:17 counsel 58:13
9:12 11:9 16:21 Comstock 1:6 31:15 32:11 couple 28:9
31:10 50:25 concerns 47:11 8:15 11:9 12:8 22:19 28:19
51:1 5:17 8:25 11:6 34:13 46:20 39:6,10,12 3:17 4:15 6:13
12:2,5,12 13:8 17:1,4 22:24 46:7,8 48:10,13 19:20 20:1,6,14
13:2,8 18:16,22 20:3 Conference 48:25 49:1 27:10 45:17
20:3 21:5 22:11 57:20 50:12 52:16,23 47:9 55:1
48:5 50:21 23:18,20,22 conferred 6:21 53:20 55:23 courts 20:7 52:9
28:10,18,21 confinement 4:1 57:16 Court's 11:25
45:6,17,18 48:5 Congress 3:12 58:8 cracks 10:6,9
13:12 29:3 51:3 18:20 19:11 11:14 13:1,3,7 28:17 29:11
17:19 22:4 committable 20:2 21:3,14,23 contagious 21:10 32:2 49:8,11,12
22:8 22:7 32:21 continue 11:20 49:12,20 50:7
23:1,10 committed 4:19 37:12 38:9 25:24 54:2 55:24
27:16 24:22 28:13 45:12 46:1,14 contract 38:15 56:13,17
39:18 committee 3:18 48:4 52:19 control 6:16 9:16 crimes 54:1,8
53:15,16 3:22 19:15,21 53:10,16,23,25 10:7 11:8 50:15 criminal 6:25 7:1
43:9 52:10 55:6 22:15 58:4
11:18 daughter 32:5 determine 31:18 domiciliary effectively 56:10
14:8,11 days 18:14 29:16 55:14 15:21 56:10
29:6 33:9 29:16,20 55:13 determined don't 44:25 effectuated 34:6
49:18 50:2deal 3:23 4:11 29:17 double 52:24 50:7
52:17 10:4 16:17 determining drawing 44:13 efforts 5:15
21:13,18 35:1 49:19 drug-resistant Eight 24:21
17:18 didn't 54:19 DuBois 1:19 2:5 24:22
42:13 44:10 46:1 54:1 33:12,17 34:4 element 23:19
5:21 decried 20:7 difficult 8:2 9:10 35:12 36:9,13 elements 56:1
default 15:25 18:9,16 24:11 36:18,23 37:15 ELENA 1:16 2:3
7:16,19 18:6 54:25 54:7 37:22 38:7,11 2:8 3:7 57:3
9:1defendant 27:19 difficulties 18:21 38:25 39:11 embark 44:24
14:10 28:21 29:23 difficulty 18:1 40:3,12,15 41:1 enables 13:9
54:19,21 direct 28:16 41:23 42:2,12 enact 3:12
17:11 defendants 51:18 43:4,13 44:17 enacted 46:2
21:6 11:18 27:18 directly 28:11 45:2,9,11,20,22 enactment 15:1
27:1,18 defender 1:20 29:11 46:4,10 47:3,14 15:4
29:7 54:17 discharge 26:3 47:24 48:12,21 enacts 52:19
33:2,20 defer 6:2 disease 29:18,18 49:3,7,15,24 endanger 7:2
35:14 definitely 37:24 29:22 30:8 50:5,19 51:8,15 endangering
49:9 51:2Department 34:12,22 39:8 52:7 53:5,24 40:10
56:13,18 1:16 diseases 30:17 54:15,25 55:17 ends 16:10 34:19
depend 23:19 30:21 31:1 55:22 56:7 57:1 50:3
10:5,12 desirable 31:18 distinctive 21:7 duty 41:5 48:2 ensured 16:23
12:13 desire 54:6 District 28:2 D.C 1:9,17 entered 7:12,20
21:24 22:8 detain 25:3 29:20 doctors 32:4 enterprise 44:24
27:14 30:13 31:25 doctor's 35:21 E entirely 18:3
46:23 detained 55:19 doesn't 41:20 E 2:1 3:1,1 entitled 34:17
12:16 35:20 21:23 45:23 easier 23:16 enumerated 29:9
determination 53:9 easy 9:7 10:21 36:19,24 50:6
experts 52:5 6:10,13,21,22 fine 36:25 27:7
40:4 expires 35:8 8:24 9:1,11,17 first 3:4 17:1 57:24
explain 52:15 9:19,24,25 10:6 22:19 25:16 GEN 1:16 2:3,8
44:12 extended 10:20 12:20,23 13:1,6 34:25 41:3 general 1:16 3:6
extends 8:21 13:16,19,19,22 43:14 47:3 3:9 4:22,24 5:5
extent 33:24 15:10,11,12,16 flows 28:10 7:24 8:10,20
extra 5:4,9 35:22 18:9 19:22,24 55:18 11:24 12:5,10
17:25 22:11 23:2,9 form 21:11 17:4,7,8,18,24
21:22 F 24:1,2,7 26:4 forth 22:6 53:2 18:8,18,19 19:6
49:3 facilities 22:9 27:18 28:4,11 forward 19:25 19:9,17 20:17
56:3 facility 33:21 29:19 30:2,13 58:1 22:12 23:24
fact 4:23 7:15,19 31:19,21 32:9 39:18 50:10 25:10,15 26:6
43:6,17 47:20 37:13,14 38:14 28:13 29:3 41:11 42:8
58:2 42:2,7,9 43:22 four 7:21 generally 17:5
50:8 fails 55:12 52:13,17 53:1 fund 45:4,13 Ginsburg 5:13
53:2 fair 6:11 14:25 54:17 56:17 funding 45:6 5:23 6:9 12:18
far 12:19 25:18 find 4:5 10:16,17 furtherance 40:13,19 46:18
3:13,18 4:7,13 49:13 31:16 40:24
5:21,24 6:3,6 finds 6:13 15:10 G 1:19 2:5 3:1 13:16 17:20
58:3 help 32:11 identified 50:11 48:16,21
11:14 58:5 helpless 40:23 ill 4:7 6:8 10:5 individual 10:18
19:24 7:18 8:6 22:3 herring 54:17 21:24 33:2,20 29:7,12,22
37:9 33:25 39:19,24 high 18:22 36:12 57:22 33:19 35:14
43:19 40:4 41:3 42:7 higher 18:23 illness 11:2 12:1 37:21 47:4
54:21 43:15 51:19 Hinckley 28:2 12:7,16 23:14 50:16
10:11 14:16 18:17 19:3 histories 11:19 47:22 48:9 32:25 33:1
32:1 37:8 37:18 41:14 history 11:18,25 57:11 46:16 47:5
41:8,15,19 governors 38:19 19:19,19,21 illnesses 33:4 infecting 39:9
42:10 grab 9:9 25:11 49:18 imaginary 52:4 infirmary 42:24
52:9 grained 52:10 hold 39:14 imagine 39:3 infirmities 28:24
grave 57:11 holding 32:15 56:19 initial 22:23
35:24 40:5 Greenwood 51:9 hole 20:8,8 57:25 4:24 injury 35:10
57:13 52:8 home 28:5 55:3,4 important 12:15 insane 3:24 5:18
6:4,6,21 guess 17:22 29:8 32:25 33:12 imprisonment 28:8,11,20 29:4
7:4 8:1,11 45:25 35:12 37:15,23 52:18 53:18 instance 39:4
9:11 guilty 27:25 28:3 38:25,25 45:2 incarcerating instances 14:18
10:9 11:7 28:8,10,20 29:3 45:12,20 46:4 13:25 Institute 30:17
12:21,23 gun 29:16 46:11 47:24 incarceration institution 43:11
guy 19:5 49:4 50:5 53:6 14:20,21 18:23 44:1,3,8
16:16 53:24 55:23 32:23 33:7,11 institutional
21:1,6,7 H 56:23 35:11 44:13
22:13 Hand 19:23 hook 30:25 31:2 include 47:15 institutions
27:11 29:2 handful 31:10 39:18 includes 14:9 44:12
30:2,13 happen 34:15 hospital 35:22 including 19:22 insufficient
48:4 37:6 44:9,9 incompetent 10:16
33:8 happens 15:22 hospitals 31:8,23 51:6,12 interest 29:6
34:1,5,16 hard 26:25 42:4 35:9 37:5,7 incorporate 48:5 34:5 51:20,20
36:4 42:7 42:17,20,21 incorporates 51:21 52:14
37:3,13 harder 9:3 hypo 9:7,10 48:19 53:7
40:13 harm 10:13 40:2 hypothetical incur 5:4,9 37:11 interests 52:2
health 30:11,12 22:1 29:14 incurs 39:8 interfering 53:10
42:3 30:18 34:20 34:11,18 indefinite 35:19 Internet 23:5
43:2 39:16 40:10 hypotheticals 48:14 intersect 50:24
44:11,19 43:7 44:22 56:19 indefinitely 11:3 interstate 22:9
45:4,5,8 47:15 48:8 55:19 22:16 23:4,17
50:11 hear 3:3 33:15 I independent 7:5 30:20,25 53:8
51:21 heard 36:2 idea 16:6 40:5,9 27:23 53:10 54:5,9
55:1 57:9 held 11:2 35:3 identical 17:2 indeterminate invoke 12:17
20:15,17,18,20 14:2 15:2,25 27:13,17,21 loose 4:2 26:4
24:1,3,12,15,17 20:17,23 21:2 lawful 16:8
58:6 27:3,6,9,24 25:10,15 26:6 Learned 19:23 making 13:8
33:13 30:3,6,15,24 57:2,3,5 legislation 5:11 man 29:15
44:18 31:3,20,22 32:3 Kansas 12:11 letter 18:18 manage 4:16
32:17,20 33:6 keep 6:18 37:17 mandating 47:15
5:3,6 8:24 9:2,6 48:18 53:15 34:25 51:11
45:16,21,25 kinds 25:25 12:20 47:17,17 45:22 53:20
48:13,18 49:1,5 21:15 26:4 limits 40:17 measure 21:21
50:2,14,22 51:5 38:7,11 46:23 link 28:16 51:18 measures 46:24
5:3,6 56:25 57:6,18 knows 4:8,10 litigation 7:18 23:13 24:10
6:9,20 58:11,12 15:13 little 35:18 25:23 28:15
7:1,1,3,12 justification live 34:5 30:11 31:5,8,17
8:5 50:12 L lived 16:4,4 31:25 32:5 36:4
justifies 23:22 lack 9:19 local 54:6 36:11 42:21
language 20:7 locate 39:20 44:9 47:15,21
11:5 K lapsed 6:14 locates 43:17 48:9 57:10
12:3,6 Kagan 1:16 2:3,8 large 6:23 14:19 logic 52:8 mentally 4:7 6:8
3:6,7,9 4:22 5:5 32:14 47:18 long 11:18,19 10:5 16:20 17:5
14:3,8,11 5:8,22 6:11,24 Laughter 9:8 49:12 52:13 21:23 33:2
7:11,17,24 8:10 20:19 26:9,12 54:18 36:12 57:22
8:20 9:2,9,20 26:14 37:2 longer 14:21 mention 46:19
10:1,15 11:4,11 law 3:20,22 7:6 44:8 51:13 mentioned 19:14
24:6,20 Petitioner 1:4,18
2:4,9 3:8 57:4
31:10 pick 28:6
normal 43:8,11 27:7 32:4,8 36:5,12 place 16:1,8
40:10 27:18 28:12
play 28:24 38:23
numbers 24:19 ought 18:15 perfectly 51:7 pled 28:20
13:25 point 6:17 9:15
O 2:1 3:1 P 3:1 13:24 24:24 27:22
40:25 42:5 obtaining 51:21 parens 35:16 10:4,20 16:14 42:3 50:4,6
32:15 occasionally parole 53:19 periodic 48:20 police 9:21 10:14
25:3 55:24 57:14 6:7,7,10,12,16 positing 41:6
44:24 22:8 52:4,20 9:22 11:1,10 position 4:11,12
offense 25:8 pass 3:19 7:6 12:1 14:21,24 15:25 18:7 22:3
7:14 13:12 56:15 passed 20:2 55:9 18:13,25 19:2 42:7 57:13
offenses 4:10 passing 40:23 23:23 24:13,25 possession 15:10
14:3,4 16:22 23:2 patriae 35:16 25:16 26:3,5,25 29:16
17:16,19 24:23 25:25 43:22 44:21 27:1 28:13 possibility 53:18
25:13,15 offensive 23:17 51:3 30:14 31:14 potential 25:3
40:6 office 45:6 pay 37:13 34:7,16 35:3,5 35:19
46:8,9 officer 47:6 penitentiary 35:9,21 39:4 power 6:20,24,25
50:3 official 53:7 15:21 40:20 41:9,21 7:4,9,14 8:15
54:4 Ohio 15:21,23 people 7:7,22 8:2 42:5,8,25 44:7 8:18,20 9:12,19
58:4 Okay 9:9 8:4,12 9:4 10:5 46:22,23 51:12 9:21 11:9 12:8
50:21 35:25 42:15 17:15 18:22 57:10 17:17 18:6 21:5
54:18,20 43:1 19:6,7,9,24 persons 4:8,9,13 21:20 22:2,21
58:2 opening 27:12 20:4,9,12,13 person's 53:9 22:23 23:22,25
31:21,22 Printz 22:5 proceeding 49:8 51:20 28:1,3,8,10,20
32:21 prior 5:2 14:23 13:19 55:24 56:2,20 29:4 51:17 53:5
14:24 25:11 proceedings purely 39:20,22 56:22 57:17
prison 4:13 7:25 18:16 45:7 52:4 reasonable 57:8
35:8,13,16 8:4 9:13,24,25 process 11:12,16 purposes 52:23 reasonably 4:5
11:20 16:5 11:23 23:20 52:24 10:16,17 15:12
38:14 21:12 25:2,7 31:13 52:24 put 19:5 24:19 17:20 18:20
41:4 32:22 33:5 program 45:14 19:11 25:24
44:10 34:12,12 35:6 prohibit 32:12 Q reasons 6:14
37:14 43:2,5,9 36:3 quarantine 28:9 43:7 44:1
46:15 44:9 51:1 prohibits 32:12 39:13 51:17 55:11
prisoner 10:10 36:16 quarantining rebuts 57:22
52:16 10:11 15:17,19 promote 26:7 21:13,16 58:1
53:1 15:22 16:1,2,2 promotion 26:11 question 7:25 REBUTTAL 2:7
58:5 16:10,11,13 prompting 36:2 12:19,22 13:5,5 57:3
45:7,10 47:20 proper 7:15 30:4 35:2 38:2 recommended
39:14 51:7 53:15 questions 53:21 reestablished
33:3,21 34:9,17 proposes 38:6 quite 26:7 44:23 10:7
55:5 proposition 33:7 quoting 3:25 52:11
36:21 37:18 protect 8:16 54:5,9
4:14 16:18 protects 11:23 54:12
32:10 33:8 33:21 24:4 26:18,20
27:14 41:14,17 45:5 39:16 49:14 9:4,14,15 10:11
27:11
39:9 54:6 45:12 46:15 50:18 10:23 16:7
54:15
50:3 54:3,3 punish 22:21 18:11,13 21:14
15:1,3,14
23:11
47:1,8,10 4:3,12,17 5:20 role 9:17 13:10 send 54:20,23 7:8 10:5,12
48:1 5:24 6:5,18 8:3 38:24 sense 15:9 22:14 12:13 16:20
8:11 9:16 14:9 rolls 56:20 23:8 28:21 21:24 23:23
10:10 21:8 37:20 run 6:25 7:1 8:21 54:12 sex-related
14:12 38:14,16 40:14 45:14,14 sent 15:23 56:14
16:1,8 40:16 running 43:11 sentence 8:9 Shannon 20:6
18:11 responsible 6:25 43:25 51:1 27:21 28:23 57:23
37:14 8:21 14:7 47:6 30:14 33:24 short 40:23
42:14 57:14 S 34:19 35:7 48:4 showing 43:25
47:20 responsibly 8:13 S 2:1 3:1 48:22,22 49:2,7 sick 42:23
55:12 40:1 43:19 safe 48:24 50:17 51:14 significant 19:12
31:15 42:19,25 12:18 17:23 29:15 49:16,19 simpler 52:12
43:6 25:6 32:11 36:8 49:20 simply 31:2 35:6
result 10:19 42:1,9 44:14 50:4 single 29:22,22
50:15 50:14 53:13 serious 3:23 4:9 society 4:2 8:16
48:23 10:8 13:11 14:3 serve 48:6 Solicitor 1:16
44:5 12:25 13:12 20:18,20,24 set 23:1 31:8,16 39:7 57:9
48:20 46:5,10,13 49:3 45:3,10,16,21 53:25 11:5,12,15 12:3
49:5,23 55:20 46:6 54:23 sets 35:23 12:6,20 23:15
2:6 27:8 robbery 25:1,1 section 3:12,19 54:6 56:15 50:14
39:2 ROBERTS 3:3 57:16,16,23 8:16 12:15 17:6 26:16 50:16
15:18 17:7,9,22 35:16 48:23 24:22 25:3,11 41:5 46:21
41:19,24 42:6 seeing 44:15 55:14 spend 37:3 42:5
41:4 20:4 24:13 sufficiently 20:11 24:18 things 25:16
46:15 25:13,14 33:14 10:19 26:23 27:25 46:19 47:15
52:6 48:2,20 52:20 suicide 32:6 46:24 47:19 10:15 11:11,24
5:1,2,3,16 statutes 12:2,13 9:14 10:23 takes 4:20 5:19 20:6 21:2,3,17
6:1,2,2 12:17 13:2 46:17,20 47:1,7 39:23 22:18,22 23:5
23:18 46:1 47:10,16,22 talking 31:1 40:9 26:16,21,23
9:15,16,21 statutory 4:19 supervision 47:7 tax 49:12 27:11,15 28:7
10:7,10,14 20:8 49:22 supported 29:8 tell 20:17 36:5 28:24 29:21
14:22 52:22 54:1 50:6 37:8 30:1,23 31:21
57:25 suppose 21:10 tells 35:21 32:13,13,20
16:3,10 stay 6:10,12 22:7 34:10 Tenth 32:17,18 33:12,15,24
18:6 35:22 Supposing 29:15 36:3 34:25,25 35:4
stays 5:21 55:9 term 5:18 8:4 35:12,18 36:2,3
20:14 22:9 step 14:17 20:11 Supreme 1:1,13 11:21,22 25:2 36:15,16,18
28:5,6 21:18 44:23 sure 6:3 10:5,13 47:16,23 52:18 38:3,8,9,14,22
32:9 57:25 15:2 16:7,18 52:20 39:1,11,16 40:6
38:13 stepping 19:25 21:23 26:13 terminated 41:2,16 42:18
41:11 steps 21:1 34:14 46:9 13:20 43:14 44:18,23
Stevens 24:12,16 49:15 terms 3:25 7:25 45:25 46:4,10
45:2,7,16 24:17,24 25:9 surprised 36:1,1 33:22 47:1,10 46:13 47:25
47:5 25:12 29:13,24 system 7:1,1,12 terrible 32:8 50:20 51:6,9,15
54:7 30:3,6 38:1,8 7:21 8:7,8,21 terribly 20:16 52:7 53:5,24
55:3,4 38:17 39:5,22 10:23 14:9,11 test 52:12 58:3 54:15 55:22
45:25 46:13 15:10 16:5 tests 55:12 57:19
4:10 5:1,9 strong 30:7 32:23 33:10 58:11,12,13 thought 12:12
12:22 13:4 stuff 34:14 34:24 36:4,10 Thanks 26:10 20:1 22:1 42:17
17:12,13 subject 48:9 42:21 48:15,15 that's 12:22,25 44:19 50:21
19:25 subjected 56:2 50:2,22 51:2 15:7 35:10 40:6 thousand 32:4
submitted 58:14 systems 20:14 46:4 48:24 51:7 threat 31:11
31:4,6 58:16 53:22 55:14 threatening 32:6
37:11 subsequent T 56:20 57:11 32:7
44:21,25 28:18 56:12,18 T 2:1,1 theory 10:24,25 three 21:4 22:22
57:25 substantial table 24:20 there's 15:13,14 51:13
5:25 10:3 sufficient 22:10 8:3 10:12 15:13 thing 17:2 21:15 19:10 20:7 27:2
17:1,4 23:6 15:15 17:14 21:22 47:3 41:8,11 53:6
55:3,15 7:13 12:4 15:3 vires 30:18 X 4243 20:3 57:24
52:22 53:3 4246 3:19 5:14
27:1 33:19 51:18 41:17,24 42:4 years 3:21 9:1 40:22 57:16,16
16:17 wants 28:6 37:4
3:4 31:4,6 37:18 39:9 you'd 36:5 50s 48:16
$ 60 3:21 18:14
35:17 unnecessarily
44:15 8:13,22 14:23 19:8
70s 48:16
08-1224 1:5 3:4
unwilling 37:11 9
9:1 15:23
44:8 14:17 38:16 week 35:22
48:22
use 13:4 31:18well-being 44:22
1:14 3:2
24:16,20
26:25 we're 40:7
25:22
V we'll 3:3 40:24
58:15
1:10
54:13
29:23 vacuum 57:14 56:13,15
25:19
3:17
20:3
25:15 view 18:14 36:6 57:25 2
53:3 57:23 willingness 20 24:23 25:6
48:15,22 vindicated 27:21 wisdom 38:2 2010 1:10
54:8 34:7 50:9 52:2 58:5,9 27 2:6
53:8 wish 32:10
violation 53:14 wouldn't 56:3 55:13
16:20 25:17 wrote 3:22 18:10 4
