IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MOHAMED ALI SAMANTAR, :
Petitioner : No. 08-1555
v. :
BASHE ABDI YOUSUF, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 3, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SHAY DVORETZKY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Respondents.
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;
for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
SHAY DVORETZKY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 26
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
For the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Respondents 48
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SHAY DVORETZKY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 59
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear
argument today in Case 08-1555, Samantar v. Yousuf.
Mr. Dvoretzky.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SHAY DVORETZKY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. DVORETZKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The FSIA applies to suits against foreign
officials for acts taken on the state's behalf, because
such suits are the equivalent of a suit against the
state directly.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Counsel, I -- I want to just
say that I have one problem with the case at the outset.
And I don't mean to interrupt the organization of your
argument. You might want to address it later. And it's
a question that goes to the other counsel, too.
I'm having difficulty seeing how the issues
as presented in the brief really resolve very much.
Let's assume -- I know this is not your position. Let's
assume the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act grants
immunity to the state for this conduct and for a
then-serving official who is its agent and for a former
agent. Let's assume there is -- there is immunity. Why
isn't it just repealed, overridden, by the later
enactment of the Torture Victims Protection Act?
I just don't see the issue structured that
way in the briefs, and I'm puzzled by it. But I say that
at the outset, and I really didn't mean to interrupt your
-- your good introduction.
MR. DVORETZKY: The Torture Victim
Protection Act creates a cause of action but is silent
about immunity, and, therefore, has to be interpreted
consistently with background immunity principles and
consistently with a preexisting statute codifying
immunity, rather than --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what authority do
you have for that?
MR. DVORETZKY: I'm sorry. Could you
repeat --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What case authority do you
have for that proposition?
MR. DVORETZKY: Dellmuth v. Muth, for one
thing. Also, the government previously argued that the
TVPA has to be interpreted consistent with preexisting
immunity principles. When Congress wants to waive
immunity, it knows how to do that. For example, it
amended the FSIA to specifically waive immunity for
actions against state sponsors of terrorism.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's like a -- it's like a
clear statement rule?
MR. DVORETZKY: Yes. If Congress wishes to
waive immunity, it has to do so expressly.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If you are right about
that -- I guess it would be the same under the Alien Tort
Statute -- then the Filartiga case -- if the -- if there
had been a quest -- request to dismiss because Filartiga
was a former officer, and the same thing in Karadzic,
none of those could have gone forward?
MR. DVORETZKY: If, in those cases, an
immunity defense had been asserted and it had been
established that the official was acting on behalf of
the state, then, yes, immunity would apply. Those
defenses were not asserted in those cases, though.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there -- is there any
Alien Tort Statute or the torture statute that would
have survived, under your view, because your view is
it's no exception under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities
Act, end of case?
MR. DVORETZKY: Absolutely, there are
Torture Victim Protection Act and ATS claims that could
be brought. They could be brought whenever an FSIA
exception applies. So, for example, if an action were
brought against an official of a state sponsor of
terrorism, the FSIA exception for that would apply. If
a foreign state waived immunity, either explicitly or
implicitly --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but that doesn't --
that's not going to happen.
(Laughter.)
MR. DVORETZKY: There are cases where it has
happened. For example, the Philippines effectively
waived immunity when claims were brought against Marcos.
So it certainly could happen.
Congress envisioned that the statute would
be interpreted consistently with immunity principles.
The legislative history supports that inference. There
are reports in the legislative history and a
floor statement by Senator Specter saying that the FSIA
could provide an immunity defense to a claim against an
official where the official can establish an agency
relationship with the state.
Here, there is no question that Mr. Samantar
was acting in an official capacity, because he is being
sued for his actions as a prime minister and as a
defense minister, in the midst of what was effectively
quelling a secessionist insurgency. That's an
inherent --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Of course, that -- again,
the Torture Victim Protection Act says "an individual
who, under actual or apparent authority, or under color
of law of any foreign nation, subjects an individual to
torture."
Why isn't that a clear statement? And then
I'll get off this hobby horse, and you can get back to
talking about the FSIA.
MR. DVORETZKY: Well, it's not a clear
statement because it's only a clear statement creating a
cause of action. It's not a clear statement that speaks
to immunity. And, again, where Congress has wanted to
waive immunity, it has done that expressly, as where it
waived the immunity of a foreign state for claims brought
against state sponsors of terrorism.
And Dellmuth v. Muth, I think, is on point
because there the Court held that even though a cause of
action was created that would principally apply only to
state agencies, that in and of itself was not sufficient
to waive the sovereign immunity of the states.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'll jump on
the hobby horse even if Justice Kennedy is jumping off.
I mean, the -- the exception in the TVPA is
to the jurisdictional immunity of a foreign state. That
doesn't sound the way you would just establish a cause
of action.
MR. DVORETZKY: You're talking about the
exception in the TVPA for state sponsors of terrorism?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. DVORETZKY: But the TVPA -- the FSIA, in
addition, also has a cause of action applicable to state
sponsors of terrorism. That's in the red brief at 17a.
It's 28 U.S.C. section 1605A(c). And so in that
situation, what Congress did was it both created a cause
of action against state sponsors of terrorism and their
officials and waived immunity.
In the TVPA, all that Congress did was to
create a cause of action. And so that cause of action
has to be read consistently with background principles
of immunity.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, when you -- going
back to where you started -- you started saying the
officer must go together with the state, because in
reality it's the same thing; it's a suit against the
state.
But this is a case seeking money out of the
pocket of Samantar and no money from the treasury of
Somalia, so why is the suit against the officer here
equivalent to a suit against the state?
MR. DVORETZKY: Because the touchstone of
foreign sovereign immunity law, which the FSIA codified,
is that one nation's courts cannot sit in judgment of
another nation's acts. And the basis for liability that's
asserted in this case is Samantar's acts on behalf of
the state of Somalia.
The issue is not who pays the judgment; the
issue is whose acts are in question. Now, in the
domestic context, of course, the distinction between
personal liability and liability from the state may
matter, but that's only because --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, that sounds like
you're -- you're talking about an "act of state" doctrine,
not that the suit against one is the equivalent of a
suit against the other.
MR. DVORETZKY: The "act of state" doctrine
is distinct from immunity doctrines, although they have
certain shared underpinnings and shared comity
considerations. And just as the under -- act of state
doctrine is concerned with not judging the acts of
foreign states, so too is foreign sovereign immunity
law. That's the fundamental premise of foreign -- of
foreign sovereignty immunity law.
In the domestic context, courts do sometimes
say that an official can be sued for personal liability
because he wasn't acting for the state if he violated
the state's controlling law. U.S. courts are able to
make that determination because our courts are the
ultimate arbiters of domestic law. U.S. courts are not
the ultimate arbiters of foreign law. In fact, a
determination that an official was not acting for a
foreign state because he must have violated the foreign
state's law or international law is precisely what
foreign sovereign immunity prohibits.
So in the foreign sovereign immunity
context, as long as the underlying acts are those of the
state, foreign sovereign immunity prohibits the case
from proceeding. And that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm not sure that I
followed your distinction of the domestic law, per se,
because say, the Federal Tort Claims Act, to come within
that Act and to have the government cover it, the
officer has to be acting within the scope of her
employment, however careless or reckless she may be.
MR. DVORETZKY: That -- and that goes to
when the government would be liable for the employee's
acts. In our case, what we're talking about here is
when the official can be personally liable for acts of
the state. And in the domestic context, we say the
official can be liable when he must not have been acting
for the state because he violated the state's
controlling law.
Foreign sovereign immunity prohibits that
determination with respect to the law of foreign states,
and it prohibits U.S. courts from imposing their view of
international law on other courts to conclude that an
official must not have been acting for his state.
JUSTICE ALITO: How will a court determine
whether an official was acting within the official scope
of the official's responsibilities?
MR. DVORETZKY: Ordinarily, the foreign
state would tell you, and that would be dispositive of
the matter.
If the foreign state doesn't tell you, you
would look at the nature of the allegations in the
complaint and see if they fall within a category of
conduct that is inherently viewed in -- as sovereign.
Atop that list --
JUSTICE ALITO: What if the court can't tell
by looking at the complaint? Is there going to be
direct communication between the court and the foreign
government on this issue?
MR. DVORETZKY: A foreign government
ordinarily is going to -- is going to get involved in
the case and indicate whether it wishes to assert
immunity on behalf of the official or not.
For example, there have been several cases
involving suits against Israeli officials, and the
Israeli embassy communicated to the courts and to the
State Department that these were acts of Israel and the
official policy of the state.
Again, if you don't have that, though, it's
not going to be a difficult inquiry, typically, to look
and see whether inherently sovereign acts are what's at
issue. For example, if you have military or police
conduct, as this Court said in Saudi Arabia v. Nelson,
that's inherently sovereign conduct. Legislative --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how is the inquiry
any different than the one that would go under the
common law head of state inquiry? What would be
different in the two?
MR. DVORETZKY: I -- I think the inquiry as
to whether it's an official act would be the same, but
head of state immunity is a different sort of immunity
than sovereign immunity. It's much broader, insofar as
it covers even personal acts by a head of state while he's
in office, whereas for foreign sovereign immunity,
what you're looking to distinguish is whether the
official was engaged in personal activity or whether he
was engaged in acts on behalf of the state.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So your --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is head of state immunity
implicit in the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act as
well?
MR. DVORETZKY: No. Head of state immunity
is a different body of common law immunity that the
FSIA --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So why can't this be a -- a
different body of common law?
MR. DVORETZKY: Do you mean, why
can't this --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No. I mean, you're saying
they -- they left head of state immunity to the common
law, did not incorporate it in the Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act. Why -- why should I believe that they
did not do the same for -- for agent of state immunity?
MR. DVORETZKY: Because head of state
immunity is not a form of sovereign immunity. And what
Congress did in this Act was it codified the law of
foreign sovereign immunity. At common law, the
sovereign immunity of the state was always understood to
extend to officials for their official acts.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Wait a minute. Why --
why -- that doesn't make any sense to me. Why would we
have had the creation of all of these common law
immunities attached to foreign individuals like consular
and diplomatic and heads of state if state sovereign
immunity was going to cover them naturally?
MR. DVORETZKY: Because consular and
diplomatic immunity are very different in scope and in
purpose than state sovereign immunity.
There are two sources of immunity that an
individual might be entitled to. There is the immunity
that flows from the state itself for official acts, and
there is immunity that flows from the individual's
office, like diplomatic and consular immunity.
Diplomatic and consular immunity are meant
to ensure that states can conduct their business without
tying up their officials while they are in office in
litigation in foreign courts over any matters, personal
or official.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm trying to go before
the Act, the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, before it
was passed, because that was Congress's first statement,
and we have to figure out what they intended to replace
or not replace.
Before the Act came in, what activities of a
consular office would not have been covered under the
foreign sovereign immunity of a state? What activity
could a diplomat have engaged in or a consular officer
have engaged in that state immunity, as it was
understood at the time, would not have given him or her?
MR. DVORETZKY: He could get into a car
accident. Diplomatic and consular immunity would
prevent the diplomat or the consul from being sued for
tort damages for a car accident in a foreign state.
Official immunity would not, because driving
is not considered an official policy of the state in the
way that, as I was saying to Justice Alito, police or
military conduct would be.
So that's the distinction between official
conduct and conduct that may well be within the scope of
employment but is not entitled to the state's immunity.
And where Congress --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can -- can you get to the
text of the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act that you --
that you assert embraces this personal immunity?
MR. DVORETZKY: Section 1603(a) -- excuse
me -- section 1604 says that "a foreign state shall be
immune from the jurisdiction" of the United States and of
the States. When a suit is brought against an official
for his official act, that is effectively subjecting the
foreign state itself to U.S. jurisdiction.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose that the -- the
Department of the Army orders clothes for the soldiers
at a time when the department is a separate agency of
Government X in 1940. In 1950, this department is
bought by the Dior clothing company.
Now, it's a private entity, and someone would
like to sue the department because they didn't pay the
bill. It is now a private entity. They are suing them
for what happened years ago when they were part of the
state.
Is it sovereign immunity, this statute that
blocks the suit, or some other principle?
MR. DVORETZKY: I think this statute would
block the suit --
JUSTICE BREYER: The statute would block the
suit. There's precedent with -- you know, famous
precedent with King Farouk, which says the opposite. It
says: You were king, you are not king now; therefore,
there may be a different principle, but we can sue you
now.
MR. DVORETZKY: Because the source of
immunity in that case was head of state immunity, which
is different from the state sovereign immunity --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. And you're
saying if a state disappears, it no longer exists, so
you couldn't possibly be interfering. You couldn't
possibly be interfering in the workings of the state --
MR. DVORETZKY: If the state --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- you still can't sue
anybody --
MR. DVORETZKY: It was --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- who was part of the official
operation --
MR. DVORETZKY: If the --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- even though there is no
present interference?
MR. DVORETZKY: If the state does not exist,
then I think you probably could sue the official --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? Why?
MR. DVORETZKY: Because --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because if the state
doesn't exist, why is there any stronger reason
than in the incident where the entity is no longer
part of the state?
MR. DVORETZKY: Because ultimately, what
foreign sovereign immunity and this statute are
concerned with is protecting a foreign state's act from
being judged in court.
In your example of the Department of the
Army which subsequently is bought by another company,
and the foreign state exists, the foreign state's acts
are still being judged regardless of the status of that
department --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, no, you may have act of
state doctrine. At that point, the State Department
comes in and says: You can't maintain this suit because
of the act of state doctrine for the very reason you've
said.
MR. DVORETZKY: You may very well have the
act of state doctrine, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: And that's my question: Do
you need the act of state doctrine or does this statute
cover it which removes the discretion from the Executive
Branch to decide on a case-by-case basis?
MR. DVORETZKY: The act of state doctrine
might very well cover your hypothetical, but it's a
different doctrine that is not duplicative of immunity.
It serves different purposes. Immunity prevents the
suit from proceeding at the outset. It's an immunity
not only from liability, but an immunity from the
litigation process itself.
The act of state doctrine is a discretionary
doctrine, first of all. It's not automatic in the way
that immunity is; and, second of all, it applies only on
the merits; and, third, it serves different purposes
because it can be used even offensively and even in
cases where the state itself is not a party, simply to
establish the legality of a state's conduct within its
own territory. So the act of state doctrine is a
judge-made prudential doctrine that serves different
purposes than immunity.
In your hypothetical, Justice Breyer,
immunity would apply to the acts of the -- of the
Department of the Army because, regardless of when suit
is brought, those acts are still those of the state. In
the hypothetical where a state does not exist at all,
then 1604 would not come into play because there is no
foreign state to be held immune.
That's not this case, though.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I come back --
can I come back to the text? I -- just for a moment
there we were on the text of this Act --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that the suit is about.
And you said where -- where the immunity exists is at
604, which says a foreign state shall be immune, but
1603 defines a foreign state, which -- which says that
it includes an agency or instrumentality of a foreign
state.
And then it defines agency or
instrumentality in a way which, it seems to me, does not
include private individuals, but rather just artificial
legal persons.
MR. DVORETZKY: Section 1603(a) does not
define a foreign state exhaustively. It simply states
what a foreign state includes. We know that because, if
you look at 1603(b), the very next subsection, Congress
said what "an agency or instrumentality" means.
So had it meant to define exhaustively what
"a foreign state" means, it could have said: "A foreign
state" means its political subdivisions, agencies, or
instrumentalities. The fact that Congress said that a
foreign state includes a political subdivision and its
agencies or instrumentalities suggests that it includes
more than just the enumerated entities.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I -- I would find it
extraordinary that it would go out of its way to say
that it includes the Department of Defense but would
leave up in the air whether it includes the Secretary of
Defense. I mean, I -- I -- it seems to me much more
likely that you would understand a foreign state to
include the departments of -- of that state than that
you would assume a foreign state to include individuals
who happen to be officials of the state.
MR. DVORETZKY: And the reason that I think
that Congress had to go out of its way to define what
constitutes an agency or instrumentality is that, at the
time that the FSIA was passed, there was uncertainty
about whether certain governmental or corporate entities
were included, maybe not the Department of Defense, but
whether certain commercial entities owned by the state
were entitled to the state's immunity. There was --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And there was no
uncertainty about -- about individuals?
MR. DVORETZKY: Precisely. There was no
uncertainty about whether individuals were included.
And so when Congress was simply continuing the common
law against which it passed this statute, it didn't need
to expressly say --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How can you maintain that
position when the Department of State takes the position
that the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act applies to a
state and agencies and instrumentalities, but it doesn't
apply to officers? If it was all that certain that they
didn't even have to put it in, then is -- the State
Department is being recalcitrant?
MR. DVORETZKY: The State Department asked,
before the FSIA was passed, to have Executive discretion
take -- taken away with respect to immunity
determinations. Congress agreed with that judgment and
passed the FSIA, and now the Executive Branch has to be
held to that judgment that was made. As far --
JUSTICE ALITO: It's something of a --
it's something of a mystery that the FSIA doesn't say
anything at all about this form of immunity; doesn't
codify it, doesn't abrogate it, doesn't preserve the
preexisting law. Do you have an explanation for that?
MR. DVORETZKY: I don't, other than the
explanation that I gave Justice Scalia, which is: This
immunity was not in question at the time that the FSIA
was passed, and when Congress passes a statute in an
area where there had been preexisting common law, this
Court presumes that Congress meant to incorporate and
continue that common law and not abrogate it unless
Congress has spoken directly to the contrary.
JUSTICE ALITO: But was this Act originally
drafted by the Executive? Do you know?
MR. DVORETZKY: I'm not sure whether it was
drafted by the Executive or whether it was drafted by
Congress, but it was passed at the request of the
Executive Branch because there was -- the State
Department was put in a position of being under
diplomatic pressure to grant immunity on -- on favored
status to certain nations who asked for it when they
wouldn't otherwise be entitled to it. This --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any case by us
in which we -- prior to the FSIA, where we recognize
that an individual was immunized in the way that the
state was, if he was acting as an agent of the state?
Or were all of our cases having to do with other common
law doctrines?
MR. DVORETZKY: This Court's cases generally
had to do with other doctrines. The one possible
exception to that is Underhill, in which the Second
Circuit's decision decided the issue on foreign
sovereign immunity grounds, and this Court affirmed.
It's unclear entirely whether this Court's
affirmance was on act of state or immunity grounds, but
also at the time that that decision was -- came down,
act of state and immunity doctrines were very much
intertwined.
There is no question, however, as the
government argues, that the common law before the FSIA
recognized that officials were entitled to immunity --
to the state's immunity for their official acts. The
Second Restatement, which was -- which was promulgated
in 1965 just before the FSIA, says that. The Second
Circuit's decision from 1971, just before the FSIA was
passed, in Heaney, says that. And it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, entitled to it, or --
or able to obtain a letter from the State Department
that would confer it upon them?
MR. DVORETZKY: No, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean -- well, I mean,
prior to the FSIA, you -- you had to get it from the
State Department, didn't you? Even the state,
for that matter?
MR. DVORETZKY: No. The -- the -- prior to
the FSIA, this was a common law doctrine that courts
would often apply without any input from the State
Department.
In the Heaney case, for example, the State
Department was asked to provide input and provided none,
and the Second Circuit nonetheless held that, using the
generally applicable common law principles, that the
official was entitled to immunity for the state's acts.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And what -- what if the
State Department came in and said no, no sovereign
immunity here, what would the court do? Would the court
be bound by that?
MR. DVORETZKY: Ordinarily, the court would
at least defer to that. Whether it would be
definitively bound by -- by that or not, it would at
least be entitled to deference.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So they didn't have to say
yes, but if they said no, that -- it pretty much
carried the day?
MR. DVORETZKY: That's probably right.
And -- but the real issue that prompted the FSIA --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you -- you don't
assert that to be -- to be the law now, do you? Has --
has that been carried forward --
MR. DVORETZKY: No --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- under the FSIA?
MR. DVORETZKY: No, because the whole
purpose of the FSIA -- again, at the Executive Branch's
request -- was to take the Executive out of that process
and to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, and then I -- I had
thought -- again, correct me if I am wrong -- that,
ultimately, in this case, whether or not within the
issues here present -- ultimately, you have two arguments.
One is that it's just implicit, inherent, necessary for
the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act that agents be
covered; otherwise it won't work.
The other -- I take it you have a backup
position that even if that's wrong, that under generally
accepted principles of international law, that agents
still have immunity. Or am I wrong about that?
MR. DVORETZKY: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I had thought when I read
the House of Lords opinion in Jones and they talked
about the statute, that they took your position, this
first position, that the Act just won't work unless
there's an agent -- immunity for the agent. But I take
it that even if we reject that position, you still have
a fallback position in the -- in the -- in further
proceedings on remand?
MR. DVORETZKY: Our position is that the
FSIA incorporates the common law and that Mr. Samantar
is entitled to immunity under the statute. If you
disagree with us on that, we would certainly wish to
assert common law defenses on remand, but we believe
that the statute resolves the question.
If the Court has no further questions, I'd
like to reserve my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Millett.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Justice Kennedy, the hobby horse that you
were talking about actually goes right -- right to the
heart of this case, and that is of the Torture Victim
Protection Act, in which Congress did create a cause of
action, was -- that cause of action was created for -- to
impose a liability, personal liability, for acts that
were done with "actual or apparent" -- but included with
"actual" -- authority of the foreign state.
Now, if Congress believed that the FSIA
immunized everyone who undertook acts under color of
law, or at a minimum with actual authority of the
foreign state, that was a very empty statute.
Now, part of the -- part of the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Millett, I think it's a
pretty empty statute as well to interpret the Foreign
Sovereign Immunities Act to immunize the Department of
Defense, but not the Secretary of Defense. I mean, that
seems very strange.
MS. MILLETT: It doesn't seem strange, for
precisely the reason that we have still with us today a
former minister of defense when we have no Ministry of
Defense and no Government of Somalia whatsoever. The
reason is that individuals come and go. Individuals
engage in acts that are not acts of the state --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the state --
there is -- the distinction strikes me as artificial as
well. We're talking about insulating state acts. The
only way a state can act is through people. And you're
saying: Well, the state is insulated, but the people
who do the acts for the state are not. I don't see how
that can -- can work.
MS. MILLETT: The only question here is
whether the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act is the
source of that insulation. And the very
difficulty with --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, well, then --
but the whole point of the Act was to codify what was
there before, and -- and it seems odd to say, well,
they were codifying the immunity of the state, but not
the immunity of the only way a state can act, which is
through individuals.
MS. MILLETT: Well, first of all, states do
corporate acts that are greater than the -- the whole is
much greater than the parts here. And the issue in this
case is whether the part can claim the immunity of the
whole, and that is a very different thing.
The -- the individual -- individuals may
act. They may act without authority; they may act
contrary to authority. And the problem with the FSIA,
which is the issue here, is there is no mechanism in it
for addressing, for example, whether this was
authorized.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The -- the Ministry of
Defense is not the whole, either. I mean, you -- you
acknowledge that -- that each individual piece of a
foreign sovereign acquires the immunity, but somehow
not -- not the principal officers of -- of the sovereign
entity. That seems to me very strange. I mean, I guess --
I guess you could write it that way, but I don't know why
anybody would want to write it that way.
MS. MILLETT: Well, Justice Scalia, if
you're going to write a statute that addresses
individual immunities -- in particular, what this case
is about, personal immunity for personal liability,
then those statutes look very different.
What's the first thing you are going to
want? You are going to want some way to decide what is
official capacity or what is on behalf of a state, and
you are going to want a mechanism for the foreign state,
or at least the State Department, to have input on that.
There's nothing in the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act
that addresses that. You're going to --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what is your --
MS. MILLETT: -- want to identify --
JUSTICE BREYER: Right. The question I
think, as I understand it, which is certainly why it's
bothering me, is: Don't think of this case. Think of
the set of cases where it's clear that the plaintiff is
suing an active state. He's suing France or he's
suing England or -- he's suing an active state for an
official act. And the judge says: I have read the
Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act; dismissed. Judge,
let me amend this. And all he does is he fills in
the names of the individuals, because there were some
individuals who did the act.
Now, does he suddenly fall outside the
Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act just because he listed
the names of the people who did it, and everything else
was the same?
MS. MILLETT: Yes, he does, because --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then, this Act does
nothing whatsoever.
MS. MILLETT: No, that's -- that's not true.
That's not true, Justice Breyer. This Act is designed
to protect the state from being sued.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it doesn't protect --
MS. MILLETT: You can't --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- the state, because all I
did there is I made my complaint the same, relief was the
same, everything was the same. I happened to go to the
Internet to find out who were the human beings working for
the state who did the thing I'm complaining did. And all
I did was fill their names in, in the complaint.
And I cannot imagine any complaint that
isn't open to that, because a -- a state can only act
through an individual.
MS. MILLETT: Justice Breyer, there -- the
question is whether Congress, in the FSIA, would have
thought that is a suit against the state.
Now, there may be many reasons that they
would have. If they thought, in the Restatement's
words -- which are not just if you are doing an official
act. If you are doing an official act, and the exercise
of jurisdiction would have the effect of enforcing a
rule of law against the state, then you get immunized.
JUSTICE BREYER: So wait --
MS. MILLETT: That --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- you're saying this Act
is only good as against a bad lawyer? Because any
good lawyer would simply fill in the right names.
MS. MILLETT: I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: There is never a case where
this Act would give immunity if the plaintiff has a good
lawyer. Is that what you're saying?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Millett --
MS. MILLETT: This Act is good against --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- I thought your point
is, if the relief is against the state, it doesn't
matter who you name as the plaintiff.
MS. MILLETT: That --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Whether it's injunctive
relief or money relief, if the relief is against the
state, obviously, you can't dodge it by naming the
officer instead.
MS. MILLETT: That's precisely right. That
is the second half of the Restatement --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh. Oh, that's a different
answer --
MS. MILLETT: Well, that's what I was trying
to say. The second half of the Restatement says you
have to be enforcing a rule -- the effect --
JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. If you're going to give
that answer --
MS. MILLETT: -- if you're enforcing a rule
of law against --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- which I thought was what
you would give --
MS. MILLETT: That's what I was trying to
give.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: -- then I have added my
question: Sometimes the individual, in the first set of
cases that Justice Ginsburg mentioned, does count as the
state. Sometimes the individual does not count as the
state. And the trouble I'm having, in this case, is to
work out the principle of when that individual would
fall within the FSIA -- as you now, via
Justice Ginsburg, have conceded, sometimes it does --
and when it doesn't.
And I've tried to work with the idea of
relief, or maybe the nature of the cause of action, or
maybe the time that the suit is brought, such as a time
afterwards. I'm not an expert. You're more of an
expert than I. What are the principles that determine
when?
MS. MILLETT: Well, there's -- there's two
levels here.
First of all, we'd look -- and this is --
Congress, presumably, was drawing on a well-established
domestic law analogies here. And they may not be
100 percent controlling here, but we have
well-established ways of understanding whether a -- an
action is against an official in -- in their official
capacity. We look at the form of relief, the nature of
the claim. I do think we need to be careful here --
JUSTICE ALITO: What is there to suggest that
Congress was looking to domestic analogies? This has
nothing -- immunity of officials under domestic law
doesn't bear very much resemblance to the immunities
that are available to foreign officials, does it?
MS. MILLETT: Well, this is a domestic
statute, and for Congress -- for purposes of Congress
deciding whether a lawsuit is a suit against a sovereign
or not against a sovereign, then that is obviously a
relevant framework.
And we know from two things -- the Torture
Victim Protection Act, that they looked at that framework,
but also embedded in the FSIA itself, in the Foreign
Sovereign Immunities Act itself, is that same
distinction between holding people personally liable and
holding the state liable.
In 1605A, the terrorist state exception, on
15a to 17a of the addendum to our brief, they create a
cause of action, one against the state and one against
the individual officials. Now, the one against the
individual officials is a recognition that individual
officials can have personal capacity liability for
damages, consistent with the Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act. Otherwise, if -- if, under
Petitioner's theory, every lawsuit against an
individual -- and the language there, is "acting under
color of office or employment" -- if every suit against
someone under color of office or employment morphs into
a suit against the state, there is no cause of action
to create against the individual.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Millett, I
thought --
MS. MILLETT: They understood it was
individual liability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought the
whole point of the FSIA was to get the Executive Branch
out of the business of sending letters to the court
every time a state was sued. The government requested
it for that purpose. Now they are just back into it
again if you say, well, you can just sue the
individuals.
And the government's position in this case
confirms that. They're -- they tell us the way you
should proceed is to look to the Executive Branch and,
basically, we'll send you a letter and let you know.
So it seems to me the whole reason you have the FSIA is
undermined by the position you're taking today.
MS. MILLETT: No, I think it's because the
inquiries are very different, as this case illustrates.
And that is -- first of all, the point of the FSIA, as
section 1602 says, is to codify -- as this Court's cases
have said, was to -- largely to codify the restrictive
theory of sovereign immunity, which did not apply to
individual immunity. It did not apply to the head of
state. The head of state was still immune for
commercial acts while a sitting head of state.
So, if that was codified, that was a dramatic
change done silently in the FSIA. The reason Congress
would want to retain Executive Branch role here is
because the inquires are different, and the first one is
the most elemental one in Petitioner's case and that is
the assertion that: I was acting in my official
capacity. Who decides? How do we decide? Which
agents? For which actions? For how long? What level
of immunity?
If the FSIA eliminated the head of state's
normal absolute immunity while sitting from all actions,
commercial or not, that's a dramatic revolution. We can
now sue sitting prime ministers and presidents and
distract them from their duties.
If the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act made
any official's official act an act of the state -- and
remember, they are now every level of the foreign
government down to the mayor's office, and corporate
officials, too, so we've now eliminated the long-standing
principle in corporate law -- corporations also only act
through individuals -- that corporate liability and
individual liability go hand-in-hand.
The -- the FSIA did not uproot all that, and
it provides no mechanisms. That's why we need to return
to the common law immunity. Now, what happens when you
have a case that, in effect, is seeking relief against
the state --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. The -- the
mechanism it provides is judicial determination of these
questions that -- that you say have to be determined --
whether he was acting within the scope of authority and
all that stuff.
MS. MILLETT: As you --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that what it did?
It took it away from the Executive, gave it --
MS. MILLETT: When you're interpreting the
language in the FSIA, like "under color of law" --
"under color of office," that is undoubtedly a job for
the court. "Official capacity" appears nowhere in the
FSIA. Deciding which agents will be agents of the state
is nowhere in the FSIA.
One court has applied this agency -- agent
principle to say that when we hire an independent
contractor, in the -- the United States independent
contractor, that gets the immunity of the foreign
sovereign state.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Courts -- courts
decide this sort of question all the time, whether
you're talking about principles of domestic immunity
or even corporate liability: Is the employee on a
frolic or is it a detour? Determining when an individual
is acting for another entity as opposed to on -- on his
own business, that's a very common inquiry.
MS. MILLETT: Not in this area, where those
decisions have foreign relations implications. This
Court has done the opposite. And it has -- it has
waited for the political branches to lead, and it has
followed. Because the decision whether we're
displacing head of state immunity and now we're going
to have commercial immunity --
JUSTICE BREYER: Then that -- I mean, I'm
sort of there. You may agree with this, that if you
have an individual and with what's being charged here
is he is, in fact, now acting as Secretary of Defense,
and this action is an action he took in his official
capacity, that's it. Forget it. This Act covers it.
But where you're claiming it's not and he's
not now a member, the reason for the Act disappears,
and you go back to the act of state doctrine.
MS. MILLETT: Justice Breyer, the -- I don't
think -- I think -- and this may seem a little formless,
but I simply think it's right, because you're dealing
with statutory text here.
It's not so much that the defense minister
himself becomes the state; it's that the court looking
at that action goes: This is really an action against
the state. The state is a necessary party under
Pimentel and must be here. You, individual, actually
have a common law immunity, an absolute immunity, when
you are, under the Restatement, sued for official acts.
And the effect of exercising jurisdiction would be to
enforce a rule of law against the state.
When you have those two things together,
both of them, you are entitled to immunity because this
is an action against the state. The state's a necessary
party. Under Republic of Philippines v. -- excuse me --
Pimentel, they must be joined, and that will -- then we'll
look at the FSIA and decide whether they can be joined
or not. That's the way it works.
It's not that individuals -- and this is a
problem -- that are sort of popping in and out all
throughout the FSIA. If it were, we need mechanisms
that we don't have here to deal with the very sensitive
decisions of which individuals. Well, how will we say
you're the agent? It's -- the individual can show up and
say I was working for the state; I was doing torture;
we loved torture; that was our policy -- you can imagine
many a government, if notified, if there was a mechanism
for them to come in, would say: Hang on, that was not our
policy. But there's no mechanism under his theory.
What else happens? I don't even understand,
under this theory, what happens. Normally, what happens
in these official capacity suits that we're familiar
with is if it really is an official capacity, then we --
we substitute the state, relief will run against the
state.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your friend --
you friend --
MS. MILLETT: But there's no mechanism here
for -- I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your friend said it
happens all the time. He cited the example of the
Israeli embassy is always sending letters or showing up
in court when their agents are -- are sued.
MS. MILLETT: That may be. Nobody showed up
in court here until we got to this Court. There was no
Somali government to show up to say whether this was
official or not, and the State Department didn't show up
for 2 years. What is a court supposed to do?
Well, it was not supposed to do what it did
here and declare that it's essentially recognizing the
transitional federal government as the government of
Somalia, because it didn't know what else to do. That
can't be right. And, again, we need to keep in mind the --
there is no mechanism in the text of the FSIA. This
Court will be engaged in an expedition of constructing
and reconstructing the FSIA if you are going to turn
it into either a Westfall substitution act with no
language here, or you have to turn it into a personal
immunity for personal liability act.
That's not the text. Sovereign immunity
has never been a personal liability from personal --
personal immunity from personal liability statute.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, do you agree with the
Solicitor General's position about the preservation of
the immunities that existed before?
MS. MILLETT: Yes, as to -- as
individualized, the specialized immunities --
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes.
MS. MILLETT: I do -- we do agree. Now,
whether we -- we don't agree, I think -- we may not agree
100 percent on what the scope or content of that immunity is.
We certainly agree that head of state immunity was preserved,
so we can't sue the head of state at all while sitting.
JUSTICE ALITO: No, but whatever immunity
existed previously for an official or former official
was not abrogated by the FSIA. The FSIA just doesn't
address that subject at all.
MS. MILLETT: Our position is that the FSIA
does not address that. Our view of what the common law
did beforehand was it packed most of this into the act
of state doctrine. That's exactly what happened in
Underhill v. Hernandez, that when you start getting to
lower level officials who are not heads of state, who
are not diplomatically protected, consular protected,
mission on -- have mission immunity, that that -- a lot
of that worked through act of state doctrine, and --
JUSTICE ALITO: There's no -- there was
no immunity for someone who is the equivalent of a -- of
a cabinet officer, previously?
MS. MILLETT: There -- there --
JUSTICE ALITO: The minister of this or that
in another government -- they have no official immunity?
MS. MILLETT: Well, look -- and much is to be
debated on remand. That issue is clearly not before
this Court. As we look at the cases and the authorities,
in fact what you have are different things coming together,
and it can be -- a lot of times, it was act of state
doctrines that were going on there. But the notion that
individual foreign officials are not personally liable
for actions is just wrong, and that is because --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Millett, do you agree
with the --
MS. MILLETT: -- or cannot be.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you agree with the
government that it's the government's advice --
the government said, in the old days, the Tate letters
went out in all these cases. Now, they no longer go out
when we're dealing with a state itself or a state
agency, but we still -- the Executive -- basically, as I
read the government's position, the government is
saying: The Executive Branch decides. We tell the
court. And if we don't tell the court that this person
can be sued, then the person can't be sued.
Are you in sync with the government in that
we are now back to the Executive -- essentially, the
Executive decides, not the court?
MS. MILLETT: I don't think that's the
exclusive one, and I think, as this Court explained even
in Altmann that deference given -- respectful deference
is always going to be given when the Executive Branch
weighs in, because these are foreign -- cases that have
foreign policy implications.
I don't think it's a rubber stamp on the
part of the courts. As this Court said in Altmann, it
depends on whether they're speaking with particularized
specialty. If they come in and say Mr. Samantar was
the head of state, we're done. I don't think
there's -- I'd like to think of something; I can't
think of anything that would save us from that. If they
say who a head of state is, then that, I think, has
largely been treated as binding on the courts.
If they say someone -- they've determined
that someone was acting in an official capacity, that's
going to receive --- either whether communicated from the
foreign state or based on principles that they have --
that's going to carry weight, but it's not going to
necessarily mean you automatically dismiss when you
have -- you could have times where the Executive
Branch said anyone acting under color of law should be
immunized. Then --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I gather the --
MS. MILLETT: -- you're going to have the
Executive Branch and the TVPA at war.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the State Department
asserts the right to say: Yes, he was acting
in a -- in an official capacity, but sock it to him.
MS. MILLETT: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, the -- the State
Department wants to be able to decide whether
individuals will be held liable, whether they were
acting in an official capacity or not; isn't that it?
MS. MILLETT: Well, they -- that -- I'll
let them speak for their own position. I think
certainly -- certainly there are a variety of doctrines,
a variety of hurdles any case has to get through. And
it's not just the Executive's views on a case. There's
things like exhaustion. There's necessary party
inquiries. There's the act of state doctrine. There's
substantive limits on what one can sue for.
You know, the Torture Victim Protection Act
is Congress's judgment that individuals who do this,
consistent with international law, whatever else --
individuals who engage in torture and extrajudicial
killing are held personally liable in Congress's views
and in the views of international law. And the Foreign
Sovereign Immunities Act doesn't stop that.
And what's critical, again, is the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I must say --
MS. MILLETT: -- language that's missing --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that I find it much
more acceptable to have the State Department say
that a particular foreign country should be let off the
hook, which is what they used to do with the Tate
letters, than I do to leave it up to the State
Department whether -- whether an individual human being
shall be -- shall be punished or not. I -- I somehow
find that less within the realm of the -- of the foreign
affairs power of the State Department.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And your red light has
gone off. I could just add -- make an addition to that
same question. I would agree that the State Department
might have some expertise in telling us what the facts
were: Who was the government, who was -- who was in
office at the time, what the policies were.
But it's just not clear to me what body of
principles the State Department looks to, to make this
determination that, as Justice Scalia said, Smith is
immune and Jones isn't.
MS. MILLETT: I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Please.
MS. MILLETT: May I, sir? The -- first of all,
whether one thinks it's the right rule or not, the FSIA
doesn't tell us any way of answering who was in official
capacity and getting input, at a minimum, from the
foreign government whose mantle this individual is
trying to wrap themselves in. So the FSIA is not the
source.
The Executive viewpoint is not -- in our
view, is not the sole source. And there are -- there
are a number of other doctrines, whether it's act of
state doctrine, whether it is exhaustion principles,
whether it's a necessary party inquiries, whether it's
substantive limits on, you know, law of nations
requirements for the Alien Tort Statute or the Torture
Victim Protection Act. There's forum non conveniens.
There are a battery of doctrines that come together to
very narrowly limit these actions.
And what the State Department looks for
is -- what it has said is that it has -- it has a
pattern of decisionmaking, factors it lays out in its
brief, that I think it finds -- it says it finds --
influential in the process. But in -- forgive me for --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your
sentence.
MS. MILLETT: But in any given case, the
role of the Executive Branch is going to have more or
less deference based on whether it is speaking something
within its traditional expertise: Are you a head of
state? Were you a diplomat?
But when it comes to war -- and I -- I'm not
saying it would, but if it were to come to war with the
very elements of the Torture Victim Protection Act and
say that torture by an individual can be immunized just
because it was done under color of law, then I think the
Court has a very difficult concern that was flagged in
Altmann to resolve, and I think we might draw a
different -- we would definitely come to a different
answer than the Executive Branch in that situation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You made that a long
sentence.
(Laughter.)
MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry. I apologize.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MS. MILLETT: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
FOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The text, the context, the purposes, and
legislative history of the Foreign Sovereign Immunities
Act demonstrate that it was not intended to apply to the
preexisting common law --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- doctrine of official immunity,
but rather -- yes --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Kneedler --
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you -- I'm --
MR. KNEEDLER: I'm --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sure one of my colleagues --
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- will get you back.
Could you address the practical implications of
your position? And by that I mean, it took 2 years
for the State -- for the government to respond to the
district court in this case. Tell us why your reading
of the statute would not grind the courts to a halt.
What happens when Justice Breyer's situation
arises? Someone takes a complaint against the state and
just substitutes the names of the persons. What -- why
wouldn't the courts come to a grinding halt?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, let me answer that in
two ways.
First, there's -- there is a very practical
distinction between suing the state and suing the
individual. The Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act is not
just about immunity; it's about the subject matter of
the courts. If a foreign sovereign is found to be
immune, the court has no jurisdiction over the case. So
to say that the individual is -- is governed by the FSIA
means that it would be a threshold subject matter
jurisdictional inquiry in every case. So in terms of
judicial administration, that is a problem.
It is also a problem, as a practical matter,
to apply the FSIA's very reticulated standards that were
carefully negotiated between the Executive Branch and
Congress when they knew what they were dealing with.
They were dealing with the immunity of states and
the -- and the principals of states. And this is
reflected, as Ms. Millett said, in section 1602. That's
the business that Congress wanted to get -- Congress and
the Executive -- wanted the Executive to be out of,
which was the immunity of foreign states --
JUSTICE BREYER: But all you have to do is
write a different word in. Now, that's the question
that's --
MR. KNEEDLER: Okay. And -- right and --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and then Ms. Millett
sort of backed off that.
MR. KNEEDLER: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And that -- and if -- what I'm
seeing here is two extreme positions.
You're saying: Never, no matter what, can
you simply write the name "Joe Smith" under the word
"Niger." Okay? Can't do it. Even though every act --
no matter what, you write that human name in, and you --
this statute doesn't apply. To me, that means it never
applies. All right?
The opposite would be that never, under any
circumstances, can you sue an individual for a -- for
a -- for an official act. That seems the opposite. I
should think sometimes you certainly could. Maybe after
he has left the government. But I'm looking for the
principle, if I'm right, that would divide the two.
MR. KNEEDLER: And --
JUSTICE BREYER: You want to stick to your
extreme position? Never, just write the thing in --
MR. KNEEDLER: I don't -- I don't regard the
position as extreme at all. It's exactly --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, do you want to stick to
that position, that all the plaintiff --
MR. KNEEDLER: Because this --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- has to do is
rewrite the name?
MR. KNEEDLER: -- this is a statute that
invaded the common law in the -- the background was
the common law in which the Executive made the
determinations for both foreign sovereigns and
individual officials. This -- and in addition,
it -- it affected the relationship of the
political branches. It had been a power of the
Executive Branch for foreign sovereigns. The Foreign
Sovereign Immunities Act took that away with the
agreement of the political branches.
There's none of -- there's no indication
whatsoever that Congress addressed common law
immunities, and there's a good reason. And that is
that there -- there are a lot of diplomatic
sensitivities about whether immunity should be
recognized in a particular case or not.
And with respect to foreign sovereigns, the
political branches addressed those in very precise ways.
There's nothing in the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act
to take into account the different sensitivities that
might well arise with respect to foreign sovereigns --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's an excellent reason.
Can you give me one single example ever of a complaint
that would ever be dismissed under this statute --
MR. KNEEDLER: It would -- it --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- if -- if my lawyer is
clever enough to look up who the individuals were and
substitute their names?
MR. KNEEDLER: And -- and it would -- here's
one example in which it would work: If the relief was
going to run against the state, if there was an
injunction to take money out of the state treasury or to
convey land, for example, that would, in substance, be
an action against the state, just like under Ex parte
Young. If you tried to bring an injunction against a
state officer to make him pay money out of the state
treasury, you couldn't do that.
It's not because the officer being sued is
the state. It's that the state is a necessary party to
that lawsuit. The state not being joined, the suit
against the individual would have to be dismissed.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think as a practical
matter --
MR. KNEEDLER: That's Pimentel.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- there's a -- I'm sorry.
Do you think, as practical matter, there's a difference
between a $10 million judgment against a state for
something that is official state policy in relation to
defense, and a $10 million judgment against the current
foreign -- defense minister of that state for exactly the
same policy?
MR. KNEEDLER: There -- there -- there is a
difference in the operation of the suit. We're not
saying that such an official should not be immune. What
we are saying is that the immunity derives from the
common law immunity. There's a presumption against a
statute invading the common law, and particularly a
common law that was primarily shaped by the Executive.
There should be a strong presumption against
taking that flexibility away in the absence of a clear
statement in the statute. And as -- and -- if the -- if
a -- if a suit should go to judgment like that, perhaps
the state would indemnify the person. But we are not
saying that that person is not immune. A question that
was asked --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could we go back to the
practical --
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. To the -- and -- and I --
I understand the practical problem that the district
court faced, and the district court was very patient.
I think it's important to appreciate,
though, the -- the -- this case really illustrates the
sensitivities of -- of foreign official immunity. This
is -- this is a claim of foreign official immunity by a
former official of a collapsed state in a -- in Somalia,
as some of the briefs point out. There has not been a
functioning central government since 1991. There are a
number of factions. On the ground in Somalia, the
absence of a central government has led to foreign
governments coming in and exercising influence, to
domestic terrorist groups, and to piracy off the -- off
the coast of Somalia.
The request to the United States, to the
State Department for its views, arose in that context.
This very case at this moment arises in a context where
things are fluid, and -- and there are circumstances in
which the Executive Branch or sometimes even the
court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- that's very nice.
A few years ago, a Spanish magistrate allowed a lawsuit
to proceed, as I recall, against our Secretary of Defense.
And what you say is that that's perfectly okay. It's up
to the Spanish government to assert that that suit
should not proceed, and if it doesn't, it's perfectly
okay?
MR. KNEEDLER: It -- such a suit would not
be perfectly okay in -- because, I mean, it would depend on
the circumstances. But as was pointed out with respect
to the suits against the two Israeli defense ministers,
in that circumstance, the Israeli Government said,
listen, these two officers were acting on behalf of --
of the government when they carried -- that's the Dichter
case and the -- and the case this Court had from the
Second Circuit last term.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I wonder -- I wonder
if the example you give or the point you make, that
there's no functioning Somali Government, doesn't cut
the other way.
Let's assume you have somebody who was
acting in an official capacity, doing what his job
required, whether you like it or not, and then there's
a change in the Somali government; and the United States
likes the new Somali government. That guy is kind of
put out to -- to dry because he can't get anybody to say
what he maintains is true, which was I was acting
pursuant to official policy of the government.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the United
States is not going to give him the letter he needs
because they like the new Somali government.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, under international law
the -- the official immunity exists for the benefit of
the state, not for the individual. The state can waive
that immunity, and the state can determine whether, as
happened in the Philippines case, that the -- that the
actions being complained of were not -- were not within
the official activity.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I take it your answer
to Justice Scalia with reference to the indictment
against the Secretary of Defense, is that that's not
covered by the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act. And if
a state interprets international law to allow the suit,
then it goes forward.
MR. KNEEDLER: No. If -- if -- if one of
our officials was sued in a foreign court, then we would
expect the dynamic to play out as -- as I have
described, where the United States would take the
position, presumably that what was being done was within
the scope of official conduct after investigation and
assert immunity, and expect that to be respected. My
only point is that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that just goes back to
the Tate letter era, where we wait to get an e-mail
from the State Department to tell us what to do.
MR. KNEEDLER: And the -- this --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought that was the
whole purpose of the Federal -- of Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act.
MR. KNEEDLER: It -- it was the purpose with
respect to foreign sovereigns, but there were good
reasons why the court did that, precisely because
immunity questions -- as I've said, this case
illustrates, to -- to recognize an immunity or not
to recognize would -- might favor one faction or another
in the ongoing dispute in -- in Somalia.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler --
MR. KNEEDLER: And so the -- what --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is -- it's now
many years, and we still don't -- the State Department
has said in effect: We decide.
Can you tell the Court, is this defendant
amenable to suit or is there an immunity that would
cover him?
MR. KNEEDLER: We are not addressing that
here. The court of appeals remanded for consideration
of common law head of state and other immunities.
Suggestions of immunity traditionally have been tendered
to the district court. And the legislative history of
the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act shows -- clearly
says that the official type immunities -- using the
word "official" immunity, head of state immunity,
diplomatic immunity, consular immunity -- those things
are not addressed by the Foreign Sovereign Immunities
Act.
Section -- section 1602 shows that Congress
wanted to take the Executive away because the government
was being pressured by foreign governments with respect
to the restrictive theory with respect to commercial
activities. And that's where the pressure was being
applied, and the Executive Branch wanted to get out of
that business, and agreed to. If you read 1602, it
specifically refers to commercial activities.
There was no such conscious abrogation of
the Executive's critical role to make immunity
determinations on behalf of officials in the legislative
history. And this Court should not strain to read the
rigid provisions of the Foreign Sovereign Immunities
Act, which were just not tailored to the immunities
that the Underhill decision of this Court specifically said
officials have immunity for their official acts
exercising governmental authority.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Kneedler.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There were a lot of long
sentences in there --
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Dvoretzky,
because of that, we'll give you 5 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SHAY DVORETZKY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. DVORETZKY: I'll try to keep it short.
I'd like to make three points: First of
all, when a suit is brought against a -- an official or
former official, the only question that a court will
need to answer under the FSIA is whether the acts
challenged are those of the state. That's a
determination that courts can readily make and are
accustomed to making. By contrast --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Wouldn't that be the
same question that you would ask invoking a common law
protection like head of state or act of state? Isn't it
-- whether it's under the FSIA or under a common law
theory -- the identical question?
MR. DVORETZKY: It is the same inquiry that
you would have asked under the common law in inquiring
whether the state's immunity extends to its officials.
What the FSIA did was it codified that rule, and it took
away Executive Branch discretion to deviate from it. If
you look at the Solicitor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't that the very
point? If the inquiry is the same under the FSIA and
under the common law, and we're unsure what Congress
intended in the FSIA, because it certainly doesn't
explicitly say it covers individual acts, shouldn't we
defer to the Executive's decisionmaking in what is --
has been, for centuries now, within its jurisdiction?
Why should we take that power away when the inquiry
would be the same under either doctrine?
MR. DVORETZKY: First of all, as we argue in
our brief, this has not historically been a long-standing
power of the Executive in the way that the immunity
itself has been recognized under the common law. And
what Congress did in 1976 was it codified the substance
of the common law but took away that procedure. And
this case demonstrates exactly why it's necessary to
extend the FSIA to foreign officials in order to -- in
order to make the FSIA mean anything at all, and in
order to ensure the uniformity and predictability that
Congress intended through the statute.
If you look at the factors that the
Solicitor General proposes to take into account in this
case -- I'm looking at page 7 of the Solicitor
General's brief -- "Petitioner's residence in the United
States rather than Somalia, the nature of the acts
alleged," the "invocation of a particular statutory right,"
the -- the state of the government in Somalia -- these
are factors that have no basis in the common law that
the FSIA codified. No case has ever held that a foreign
official or former official loses immunity for official
acts on the basis of these sorts of factors.
Moreover --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why can't you say that if
the person, the individual you are suing, is a member of
the foreign state, is engaged in the kind of activity that
you're complaining about, is subject to the orders of
the foreign state, and the relief would affect the
foreign state, you are suing the foreign state?
But where he was a member of the foreign
state, and you want money from him, even though what he
did in the past was an act of a foreign state, this
lawsuit is not affecting him in his capacity -- is not
affecting the foreign state. Indeed, there isn't even
one. So in the first set, he falls in the FSIA. In the
second set, he doesn't. And you happen to have the
second set, and, therefore, he may still be immune for
what he did in the past, but that would be a different
docket.
MR. DVORETZKY: All right.
JUSTICE BREYER: That -- that's where this
is all leading me.
MR. DVORETZKY: Because the Restatement --
what the Restatement, which summarized the common laws as
of the time of the FSIA's enactment, says that an
official is immune for his acts on behalf of a state if
exercising jurisdiction would enforce a rule of law
against the foreign state. You enforce a rule of law
against a foreign state just as much by threatening to
bankrupt an official as soon as he leaves office --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does this case --
MR. DVORETZKY: -- as you do by issuing --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does this very case
establish a rule of law for the foreign state?
The Act is aimed at torturers. The remedy comes out of
the private pocket. How does this establish -- if the
thing plays out and the plaintiffs prevail, there
will a remedy against an individual actor; there will be
no relief awarded against any government. How would it
set a rule for the foreign government?
MR. DVORETZKY: Because enforcing a judgment
against a foreign official, threatening to bankrupt the
person as soon as he or she leaves office, has just as
much effect on the state itself as -- as enforcing a
judgment directly against the state. It will force
officials to conform their conduct on behalf of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Never mind that this
person has long lived in the United States, in Virginia.
It will have no effect -- will have no effect whatever on
the government of Somalia?
MR. DVORETZKY: But the -- the rule that the
government proposes, and the courts would presumably be
left to apply on their own in the many cases like this
one and the 9/11 litigation against the Saudis where the
government doesn't weigh in, that rule does not draw
those neat lines.
Why, for example, would we know that a prime
minister who comes to visit the United States has not
spent enough time here in order to have his official
immunity abrogated?
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask just ask one
quick question? Am I correct in understanding that you
do not contend that your client was covered by
1603(b)(1)?
MR. DVORETZKY: 1603(b)(1) is the agency --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It defines an agency or
instrumentality of the --
MR. DVORETZKY: We do argue that in the
alternative. We think our principal argument is that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The principal argument is
not based on the text. You do make that argument in the
alternative then?
MR. DVORETZKY: We make that argument in the
alternative. Our principal argument is based --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It's interesting that nobody
has talked about that section during the entire argument.
MR. DVORETZKY: Our principal argument is
based on the text of 1604, which is that in -- that
subjecting official acts --
JUSTICE STEVENS: If they don't qualify
under 1603(b)(1), it's kind of hard to get the statute
to apply to them at all.
MR. DVORETZKY: I respectfully disagree,
Your Honor, because 16 (b)(1) defines agencies or
instrumentalities. And an official, like an agency or
instrumentality, is the means through which the state
acts. And, so, if the foreign state include --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's kind of hard --
I mean, I assume the reason you don't rely heavily on it
-- because it says that an agency or instrumentality is an
entity. I mean, we usually don't think of individuals
as being entities.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And 1602 applies only to
foreign states.
MR. DVORETZKY: 1602 applies to states, and
our argument is that exercising jurisdiction over the
official in the circumstances like these would be
exercising jurisdiction over the state.
An entity, Your Honor, is not -- is not
automatically read to include a person, but it doesn't
preclude persons, either, as the Ninth Circuit held in
Chuidian.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Counsel.
MR. DVORETZKY: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:08 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
48:13 49:13 addendum 34:11 Alito 11:6,17 appreciate 54:7
65:18 52:5 56:17 57:9 45:25 51:16 22:12 33:19 arbiters 10:2,3
62:20 addressed 51:23 allegations 11:13 argued 4:20
11:5,7 22:25 29:15 allowed 55:1 2:2,10 3:4,6,17
38:1,13 44:3,9 28:19 57:25 64:7,9 59:10 64:4,5,6
26:23 33:4,16 affirmance 23:9 amicus 1:21 2:8 17:21 19:5
38:14,25,25 agencies 7:18 analogies 33:13 artificial 19:23
actions 4:25 6:21 64:19 answer 32:6,11 asked 21:18
7:1 active 29:22,23 20:4,23 37:16 answering 46:13 assert 11:23
activities 14:20 43:4 63:25 64:1 anybody 17:1 15:15 25:2 26:9
12:16 58:15,18 64:20,25 29:3 55:25 55:4 57:1
activity 12:22 agent 3:24,25 apologize 48:2 asserted 5:12,15
14:22 56:13 13:14 22:25 apparent 7:2 9:3
17:18 61:15 26:1,1 37:16 26:25 assertion 36:5
18:3,6,8 actor 62:23 39:19 appeals 58:1 asserts 44:15
acts 3:11 9:2,3,6 agents 25:15,19 APPEARAN... assume 3:21,22
21:13 9:18 10:9,20,21 36:7 37:14,14 1:14 3:25 20:19
23:9,11 12:3,7,19,23 40:13 appears 37:13 55:20 64:24
26:22 13:20 14:7 ago 16:5 55:1 applicable 8:5 Atop 11:16
28:1,5 17:22 19:4,6 agree 38:11 41:8 24:11 ATS 5:22
23:16 24:12 41:14,15,15,17 applied 37:16 attached 13:24
26:24 27:3,17 42:21,24 46:1 58:16 authorities 42:15
27:17,20,23 agreed 21:21 applies 3:10 5:24 authority 4:13
28:11 35:24 58:17 18:20 21:13 4:17 7:2 27:1,4
36:14 39:4 59:1,16 agreement 51:21 50:20 65:3,5 28:16,17 37:5
60:10 61:5,11 aimed 62:20 apply 5:14 6:1 59:2
62:10 64:14,22 air 20:15 7:17 19:4 21:15 authorized 28:20
65:10 bought 16:1 34:15 36:6 22:20 codify 22:2 28:5
21:22 22:17 55:21 61:22 50:24 60:9 collapsed 54:11
36:2 car 15:1,4 challenged 59:17 colleagues 48:22
35:7 58:16 60:4 carried 24:23 Chief 3:3,8 7:20 47:19
43:10 branches 38:6 25:3 55:13 8:3 26:13,17 come 10:14 19:8
54:2 57:3 51:18,21 52:4 carry 44:6 27:18 28:4 19:11,12 27:16
8:13 51:13 16:11,20,25 10:10,20 11:23 46:10 47:8,24 comes 18:2 47:15
30:14,16,25 28:13 29:6,20 Chuidian 65:12 comity 9:16
32:10,14,19 35:10,17 36:4 55:15 65:11 35:24 36:11
51:10 52:8,12 49:16,19 52:2 55:11 13:4,7,11,18,23
Breyer's 49:5 55:14 56:11 50:22 54:22 23:1,14 24:5,11
3:7,11 briefs 4:4 54:12 cases 5:11,15 6:7 33:18 54:10 51:23 53:17,18
9:3 11:24 bring 52:21 11:25 18:23 claiming 38:16 53:19 58:2
26:16 broader 12:18 23:1,3 29:21 claims 5:22 6:9 59:21,23 60:1,8
55:12 brought 5:23,23 32:21 35:19 7:13 10:14 60:18,20 61:8
59:11 5:25 6:9 7:13 42:15 43:2,16 clear 5:2 7:5,8,9 62:8
63:6 15:19 19:6 33:5 63:13 7:10 29:21 46:5 communicated
35:5 38:2 50:3 category 11:14 58:5 11:19
30:17,21 contend 63:23 10:1,2 11:3,4 37:14 54:20 57:5,20
49:6 52:9 content 41:16 12:2 14:13 24:5 decision 23:6,10 departments
continue 22:10 Court's 23:3,8 47:5 60:11 Deputy 1:19
12:9,10 37:19 18:9,12 57:24 declare 40:20 designed 30:12
15:8,10 contrary 22:11 covered 14:21 defendant 57:22 determination
18:24 28:17 25:16 56:17 defense 5:12 10:1,4 11:2
63:6 contrast 59:19 63:23 6:16,22 20:14 37:3 46:7 59:18
6:11 7:11 convey 52:19 created 7:17 8:8 55:10 56:16 33:7 56:10
13:17 corporate 20:25 26:23 defenses 5:15 determined 37:4
20:3,8,22 28:11 36:17,19 creates 4:8 26:9 44:2
22:7,9 36:20 37:24 creating 7:9 defer 24:18 60:11 Determining
26:22 corporations creation 13:23 deference 24:20 37:25
31:1 33:12 36:19 critical 45:12 43:14,14 47:12 detour 37:25
correct 25:11 58:20 define 20:1,5,22 deviate 60:4
49:24 50:3 63:22 curiae 1:21 2:8 defines 19:18,21 Dichter 55:13
51:23 counsel 3:14,18 48:7 64:1,19 difference 53:7
60:8,19 26:13 48:3 current 53:10 definitely 47:22 53:14
65:13,14 cut 55:18 definitively different 12:12
45:6,9 country 45:17 D Dellmuth 4:19 14:3 16:15,19
7:16 11:6,17,19 34:16 48:13 32:5 35:17 36:3
23:7 24:15,15 days 43:1 60:21 50:7 52:6 62:2
45:7 38:5,24 40:13 43:3 49:24,25 15:25 16:3 difficulty 3:19
6:12 8:13 42:15 43:7,7,11 decide 18:10 19:5 20:14 21:1 Dior 16:1
54:6,6,24 55:14 44:19 57:21 24:2,7,9,14 diplomatic 13:25
59:15 43:11 45:16,20,23 58:8
42:4 58:8 courts 9:1,22,25 deciding 34:1 46:1,6 47:3 diplomatically
33:13,20,21,24 41:2 44:4 60:14 equivalent 3:12 62:11 65:6,8
63:5 22:15 elements 47:17 ESQ 1:15,17,19 exhaustively
36:11 36:18 essentially 40:20 exist 17:8,13
38:17 drawing 33:12 40:12 establish 6:17 existed 41:10,20
60:4 dry 55:25 embraces 15:15 62:19,21 17:22 19:16
18:13 employee's ET 1:6 expect 56:22
53:2 2:3,11 3:5,6,8 10:17 15:11 53:11 60:21 expert 33:6,7
15:9 14:2 15:1,16 62:11,12 55:17 63:17 explicitly 6:2
34:8 16:9,17,24 17:2 enforcing 31:7 excellent 52:8 60:10
17:5,8,11,16 32:9,12 63:1,4 exception 5:19 expressly 5:4
20:21 21:6,18 45:8 8:2 23:5 34:10 extend 13:20
58:4 25:6,21 26:5 40:25 61:15 37:2 39:10 extrajudicial
18:1,3,6,8 64:8,12,18 65:5 entire 64:11 35:4,12 36:2 extreme 50:14
65:15 entirely 23:8 37:9 43:4,6,10 51:4,6
19:1 24:5 dynamic 56:22 entities 20:11,25 43:11,15 44:8 e-mail 57:4
42:1,6 D.C 1:8,15,17,20 21:2 65:2 44:13 46:18
46:21 entitled 14:6 47:11,23 49:23 F
60:14 E 15:11 21:3 50:4,4 51:14,19 faced 54:6
42:18 EDWIN 1:19 2:7 24:12,20 26:7 58:12,16 60:4 38:13 42:16
46:20 48:6 39:8 60:17 faction 57:15
effect 31:7 32:9 entity 16:2,4 Executive's factions 54:14
55:21 effectively 6:8,22 enumerated exercise 31:6 facts 46:2
either 6:2 28:22 envisioned 6:11 54:16 59:2 32:25
57:8 44:5 45:10,17 46:16 49:17 12:6 14:1 29:5 halt 49:4,8
54:15 56:17,21 functioning 56:5 happened 6:8
28:10 62:12,13,19,25 government 49:5
32:20 63:2 64:22 65:4 G 4:20 10:15,19 hard 64:16,23
35:18 Forget 38:15 G 3:1 11:20,21 15:25 head 12:13,17,19
46:11 forgive 47:7 gather 44:11 23:14 27:15 12:25 13:3,11
59:13 form 13:16 22:1 General 1:20 35:6 36:17 13:15 16:18
61:24 33:17 61:2 39:22 40:16,21 35:22,23,24
forward 5:10 Ginsburg 5:5,16 58:12 61:7 24:8
6:2 7:3,13 framework 34:3 31:18,20,24 governmental heavily 64:24
8:25 9:19 34:5 32:21 33:1 20:25 59:2 held 7:16 19:9
10:3 France 29:22 42:21,24 57:17 governments 21:23 24:10
friend 40:6,7,10 57:19 62:15,18 54:16 58:13 44:20 45:9 61:9
frolic 37:25 63:7 government's 65:11
12:20 FSIA 3:10 4:24 give 31:16 32:10 35:10 42:25 Hernandez 42:2
5:23 6:1,15 7:7 32:15,17 52:9 43:5 he's 12:19 29:22
8:4,25 13:5 55:17 56:5 59:9 grant 22:19 29:22,23
20:24 21:19,22 given 14:25 grants 3:22 hire 37:17
21:25 22:6,23 43:14,15 47:10 greater 28:11,12 historically
23:14,18,19 go 8:17 12:12 grind 49:4 60:16
58:4,22 6:12,16 7:11,12 imposing 11:3 influence 54:16 37:10
8:14,25 9:15,19 include 19:23 inherent 6:24 interrupt 3:16
65:9 12:17,18,20,25 included 21:1,7 12:7,10 23:12
14:1,3,4,5,6,8,9 20:2,9,10,14,15 injunctive 31:24 invading 53:18
50:18 16:7,18,18,19 incorporates inquires 36:3 invocation 61:6
19:3,7 19:2,4,16 21:3 independent inquiring 60:1 involving 12:1
22:1,6,19 37:17,18 inquiry 12:6,11 Israel 12:3
57:14 35:21,22 36:8 28:15,23 29:6 20:8,10 21:14 42:14
37:23 38:8,9 32:24 34:13,14 instrumentality issuing 62:16
35:23 41:7,16,17,19 35:2,22 36:21 20:23 64:2,21 29:19 39:19
49:16 42:5,8,12 48:16 37:25 38:12 64:25 40:20 64:10
62:1 49:14,25 50:5 39:2,19 42:19 insulated 27:22 I'd 26:11 43:23
52:1 53:16,17 45:20 46:15 insulating 27:20 59:13
13:1,13,24 57:1,13,14,23 50:22 51:16 insurgency 6:23 59:12
15:14 58:3,7,7,8,8,20 53:2 56:9 60:10 intended 14:18 I'm 40:9 48:21
25:15 59:1 60:2,17 61:14 62:23 48:13 60:9,25 48:22 61:3
28:1 29:6 61:10 63:20 individualized interesting 64:10
30:5 immunize 27:9 41:12 interference J
34:7,17 immunized individuals 17:7 job 37:12 55:21
41:10,12 22:24 27:3 31:8 13:24 19:23 interfering 16:22 Joe 50:16
48:12 44:10 47:18 20:19 21:5,7 16:23 joined 39:11,12
51:20,24 implications 27:16,16 28:9 international 53:1
56:17 57:9 38:4 43:17 28:15 30:2,3 10:6 11:4 25:19 Jones 25:23 46:8
48:25 35:9 36:20 45:7,10 56:7,18 judge 29:24,25
implicit 13:1 39:14,18 44:20 Internet 30:19 judged 17:19,23
4:9,10,12 implicitly 6:3 65:1 interpreted 4:9 judging 9:18
5:4 important 54:7 individual's 14:8 4:21 6:12 judgment 9:1,5
45:6 46:10 47:8,24 L legal 19:24 looked 34:5
63:1 48:3,5,9,15,18 land 52:19 legality 18:24 looking 11:18
48:20,22,24 language 34:19 legislative 6:13 12:21 33:20
51:3,7,10 52:8 45:14 48:12 58:4,21 61:3
31:7 57:7,17,19 59:3 19:14 32:18 43:1 45:19 lot 42:5,17 51:25
49:16 59:5,8,20 60:6 48:1 59:7 Let's 3:21,21,25 59:5
62:11 61:13 62:5,15 law 7:3 8:25 9:20 55:20 loved 39:21
62:18 63:7,21 9:21,25 10:2,3 level 36:7,16 42:3 lower 42:3
49:19 65:3,13,16 liability 9:2,8,8 M
12:13
4:13,17 K 26:24,24 29:7 maintain 18:2
21:9 22:3
6:4,25 Karadzic 5:9 34:15 35:2 21:11
23:2,14
8:3,15 keep 40:23 59:12 36:20,21 37:24 maintains 56:1
25:2,19
10:12 11:6 Kennedy 3:14 41:4,6,7 making 59:19
27:4
12:11,24 4:13,17 5:1 liable 10:19,21 mantle 46:15
32:13
13:6,10 6:25 7:21 25:10 10:23 34:8,9 March 1:9
36:19
14:15 25:22 26:19 42:19 44:20 Marcos 6:9
37:11
45:24 56:14 45:9 matter 1:11 9:9
41:24
57:3,7 light 45:24 11:11 24:3
45:7,10
killing 45:9 likes 55:24 31:22 49:14,18
47:19
19:3,11,15 kind 55:24 61:15 limit 47:2 49:21 50:15,18
51:13,14
21:4,11 64:16,23 limits 45:4 46:23 53:4,7 65:18
53:17,18
22:5,12 king 16:13,14,14 lines 63:16 matters 14:13
56:7,18
23:21,25 Kneedler 1:19 list 11:16 mayor's 36:17
59:21,23
25:1,5 2:7 48:5,6,9,16 listed 30:5 mean 3:16 4:5
26:13 48:18,19,21,23 listen 55:12 7:22 13:8,10
62:11,12
27:7 49:9 50:9,12 litigation 14:13 20:16 23:25,25
28:4,21 51:2,5,9,12 18:17 63:14 27:10 28:22
30:9 52:11,15 53:5 little 38:20 29:1 38:10 44:7
53:13 54:4 55:7 lived 63:8 44:18 49:1 55:8
55:1 61:22
56:3,7,20 57:6 long 10:9 36:7 60:23 64:24
32:5 57:10,17,18,25 47:24 59:5 63:8 65:1
52:12
59:4 longer 16:21 means 20:4,6,7
34:24 knew 49:24 17:14 43:2 49:18 50:19
37:2,8,21 know 3:21 16:12 long-standing 64:21
40:6 20:2 22:13 29:2 36:18 60:16 meant 14:10 20:5
41:8,13 34:4 35:13 look 11:13 12:6 22:9
42:7,11 40:22 45:5 20:3 29:8 33:11 mechanism
44:11 46:23 63:17 33:17 35:12 28:18 29:12
45:13 knows 4:23 39:12 42:13,15 37:3 39:22,24
46:7 52:13 60:5 61:1 40:8,24
39:16 61:20 number 46:20 officials 3:11 27:6,6 28:13
Muth 4:19 7:15 14:12 20:20 parte 52:20
name 31:22 34:2 58:21 59:1 60:2 particularly
names 30:2,6,21 offensively 18:22 official's 11:8 parts 28:12
31:13 49:7 office 12:20 14:9 official's 36:15 party 18:23 39:1
29:4,17 52:14 14:12,21 34:20 Oh 17:25 28:4 39:10 45:2
naming 32:1 34:21 36:17 32:5,5 46:22 52:25
narrowly 47:2 37:12 46:4 okay 50:9,17 passed 14:17
32:3,7,12 nation 7:3 62:14 63:3 55:3,6,8 20:24 21:9,19
33:9,24 nations 22:20 officer 5:9 8:17 old 43:1 21:22 22:7,16
35:1,16 46:23 8:22 10:16 ongoing 57:16 23:20
38:3,19 nation's 9:1,2 14:23 32:2 42:9 open 30:23 passes 22:7
41:11 naturally 14:1 52:22,24 operation 17:4 patient 54:6
42:10 nature 11:13 officers 21:15 53:14 PATRICIA 1:17
33:4,17 61:5 28:25 55:12 opinion 25:23 2:5 26:15
44:12,17 neat 63:16 official 3:24 5:13opposed 38:1 pattern 47:5
45:14 necessarily 44:7 5:25 6:17,17,20 opposite 16:13 pay 16:3 52:22
47:10 necessary 25:14 9:23 10:4,21,23 38:5 50:21,23 pays 9:5
50:2,10 39:1,9 45:2 11:5,7,7,24 oral 1:11 2:2 3:6 people 27:21,22
33:18 36:23 17:3,9 23:16 orders 15:23 perfectly 55:3,5
38:23 59:16 31:5,6 33:16,16 ordinarily 11:9 person 43:7,8
53:11 needs 56:5 36:5,15 37:13 11:22 24:17 53:24,25 61:14
negotiated 49:23 38:14 39:4 40:2 organization 63:3,8 65:10
never 31:15 41:6 41:20 42:12 originally 22:12 12:19,22 14:13
51:4 63:7 46:13 48:16 18:15 29:7,7 34:15
Normally 40:1 62:10,14 63:2 packed 41:25 2:4,12 3:7
36:4 61:4 54:3,5 37:17 51:1 punished 45:21 64:24
56:11 16:13 4:22 6:12 8:13 25:7 35:7 57:8 57:12
21:6 27:13 32:3 46:6,21 18:21 19:2 recalcitrant
51:8 predictability private 16:2,4 put 21:16 22:18 receive 44:4
48:10 premise 9:20 28:17 39:15 qualify 64:15 57:14,15
25:13 procedure 60:20 quest 5:8 52:2 60:18
31:20 35:4 preservation 55:2,5 6:19 9:6 18:7 40:20
54:12 41:9 proceeding 22:6 23:13 reconstructing
57:2 60:7 preserve 22:2 10:11 18:15 26:10 27:25 41:1
43:17 presumably 10:10 11:1,3 questions 26:11 regardless 17:23
56:2 33:12 56:24 prompted 24:25 37:4 57:13 19:5
51:18,21 presumes 22:9 23:17 relation 53:9
presumption proposes 61:2 relations 38:4
43:5
22:18 prevail 62:22 protect 30:13,14 relevant 34:3
65:10
prevent 15:3 protected 42:4,4 relief 30:17 31:21
35:10 prevents 18:14 protecting 17:18 31:25,25,25
41:9,23 previously 4:20 protection 4:2,8 33:4,17 36:25
44:23 49:1 41:20 42:9 5:22 7:1 26:22 40:4 52:16
56:24 primarily 53:19 34:5 45:5 46:25 61:17 62:24
40:3 54:8
64:4,5,9,12 provided 24:9 remanded 58:1
20:21
35:14
60:13,17 principals 50:1 37:3 remember 36:16
38:17
25:8 62:4 21:4 22:5 23:21 shaped 53:19 12:11,24 13:21
rigid 58:23 23:25 24:13,21 shared 9:16,16 14:15 22:22
34:24 35:3 44:18 45:13,15 show 39:19 40:16 sound 7:24
46:10 47:8,24 56:15 59:5 showed 40:14 source 16:17
role 36:2 47:11 se 10:13 silently 36:1 5:19 7:19 8:25
52:3,7 rule 5:2 31:8 32:9 23:5,17,18 38:21 50:16 12:18,20 13:1
57:11 32:12 39:6 24:10 32:4,8 single 52:9 13:12,16,18,19
46:12 60:3 55:15 61:25 sir 46:11 13:25 14:4,16
55:2 56:16 situation 8:8 24:14 25:15
2:6,9 48:6 35:19 50:2 sock 44:16 34:1,2,7,16
48:8 Samantar 1:3 58:11,11 64:11 soldiers 15:23 35:21 36:14
26:6 43:21 12:7 27:23 Solicitor 1:19 45:11 48:12
32:4,8 Saudi 12:9 seeking 8:20 61:3 52:5 56:17 57:8
62:7,8 Saudis 63:14 36:25 Somali 40:16 58:5,9,23
saying 6:15 8:16 send 35:13 56:6 51:19 52:3,7
16:21 27:22 40:12 27:15 40:22 sovereignty 9:21
31:21 32:1,22 status 17:23 substitute 40:4 survived 5:18
35:23,23,24 5:17,17 6:11 substitution T
8:2,6,9 42:1,3,6,17 46:24 49:4 50:22 58:12 60:13
5:14,25 52:17,18,20,22 61:6 sufficient 7:18 talking 7:7 8:1
7:13,14 52:22,25,25 STEVENS 63:21 suggest 33:19 9:11 10:20
8:2,5,9 53:1,8,9,11,24 64:1,5,10,15 Suggestions 26:20 27:20
9:4 54:11,20 56:9,9 65:3 58:3 37:23
56:10,18 57:5 stick 51:3,7 suggests 20:10 Tate 43:1 45:18
57:20 58:2,7 stop 45:11 suing 16:4 29:22 57:4
12:3 59:17,22,22 strain 58:22 29:22,23,23 tell 11:10,12,17
61:7,15,17,18 strange 27:11,12 49:12,12 61:14 35:11 43:6,7
13:3 61:18,20,21,23 29:1 61:18 46:13 49:3 57:5
62:10,12,13,19 strikes 27:19 suit 3:12 8:18,22 57:22
14:4,7 63:4,5 64:21,22 strong 53:20 8:23 9:12,13 telling 46:2
15:4,6 65:8 stronger 17:13 15:19 16:8,10 tendered 58:3
16:6 statement 5:2 structured 4:3 16:12 18:2,15 term 55:15
6:15 7:5,9,9,10 stuff 37:6 19:5,15 31:2 terms 49:19
17:8,12 14:17 53:22 subdivision 20:9 33:5 34:1,20,22 territory 18:25
18:1,1 states 1:1,12,21 subdivisions 53:1,14,23 55:4 terrorism 4:25
2:8 7:19 9:19 20:7 55:7 56:18 6:1 7:14 8:2,6,9
19:6,7 11:2 14:11 subject 41:22 57:23 59:14 terrorist 34:10
15:18,19 20:1 49:14,18 61:16 suits 3:10,12 54:17
28:10 37:18 subjecting 15:20 12:1 40:2 55:10 text 15:14 19:12
48:7 49:25 50:1 64:14 summarized 19:13 38:22
50:5 54:19 subjects 7:3 62:8 40:24 41:5
22:17,25 55:23 56:5,23 submitted 65:16 supporting 1:21 48:11 64:6,13
23:9,11 61:5 63:8,18 65:18 2:9 48:8 Thank 26:13
24:2,2,6 65:4,5 subsection 20:3 supports 6:13 48:3,4 59:3
27:1,5 state's 3:11 9:25 subsequently Suppose 15:22 65:13,15
10:6,24 15:11 17:21 supposed 40:18 that's 9:2 12:10
28:7,8 17:18,22 18:24 substance 52:19 40:19 41:5 42:1 43:12
21:3 23:16 60:19 Supreme 1:1,12 44:3,6 45:14
30:13,16 24:12 36:9 39:9 substantive 45:4 sure 10:12 22:14 50:8
31:2,8 60:2 46:23 48:22 then-serving
37:22 40:11 20:24 21:5,7 viewpoint 46:18 we've 36:18
39:24 times 42:17 44:8 Underhill 23:5 54:20 we'll 3:3 35:13
58:14 today 3:4 27:13 42:2 58:25 violated 9:24 59:9
35:15 underlying 10:9 10:5,24 we're 10:20
29:14 15:4 46:24 35:15 visit 63:18 40:2 43:3,22
40:8 45:1 torture 4:2,7 underpinnings 53:14 60:8
46:25 5:17,22 7:1,4 9:16 W whatsoever
51:22,22 26:21 34:4 understand wait 13:21 31:9 27:15 30:10
52:5 53:6 39:20,21 45:5,8 20:17 29:19 57:4 51:23
55:18 46:24 47:17,18 39:25 54:5 waited 38:6 what's 29:9
torturers 62:20 understanding waive 4:22,24 5:4 45:12
28:14 29:9 traditionally 13:19 14:25 7:13 8:10 wonder 55:16,16
51:4 58:3 35:1 want 3:14,17 word 50:7,16
transitional undertook 27:3 29:3,10,10,12 58:7
45:2 treasury 8:21 37:12 51:7 61:20 work 25:16,25
58:8 52:18,23 uniformity 60:24 wanted 7:11 50:3 27:24 32:24
17:9 20:21 tried 33:3 52:21 2:8 15:18 37:18 wants 4:22 44:19 worked 42:6
29:19,20 trouble 32:23 48:7 54:19 war 44:13 47:15 working 30:19
31:14 true 30:11,12 55:23 56:4,23 47:16 39:20
35:16 56:1 61:4 63:8,18 Washington 1:8 workings 16:23
try 59:12 unsure 60:8 1:15,17,20 works 39:13
43:12,13 trying 14:15 32:7 uproot 36:22 wasn't 9:24 wouldn't 22:21
32:16 46:16 usually 65:1 way 4:4 7:24 15:7 49:8 59:20
44:23 turn 41:1,3 U.S 9:25 10:2 18:19 19:22 wrap 46:16
47:6,19,21 TVPA 4:21 7:22 11:3 15:21 20:13,22 22:24 write 29:2,3,5
53:3,7 8:2,4,11 44:13 U.S.C 8:7 27:21 28:8 29:2 50:7,16,18 51:4
64:4 65:1 two 12:14 14:5 29:3,10 35:11 wrong 25:11,18
32:14 55:10,12 42:2 52:4 x 1:2,7 15:25
35:3 57:7 tying 14:12 variety 44:24,25 Wednesday 1:9
26:21 34:5 weighs 43:16 years 16:5 40:18
63:2 typically 12:6
46:25 weight 44:6 49:1 55:1 57:20
22:6
41:24 46:19 Westfall 41:2 13:10 16:20
26:12
35:6
37:10,23 4
39:19 48 2:9
61:16
59:9
604 19:17
1:4 3:4
7 61:3
64:19
1:13 3:2 9
33:14 41:16 9/11 63:14
65:17
34:11
64:19
35:19 50:2
65:3,5
19:18
15:16
20:3
63:24
64:16
15:17 19:8
34:10
8:7
8:6 34:11
15:25
15:25
23:18
23:19
60:19
54:13
40:18 49:1
1:9
2:6
8:7
1:9 2:4
