IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP, ET :
AL. :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 08-146
WAYNE CARLISLE, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 3, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:19 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
M. MILLER BAKER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioners.
PAUL M. De MARCO, ESQ., Cincinnati, Ohio; on behalf
of the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
M. MILLER BAKER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
PAUL M. De MARCO, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
M. MILLER BAKER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 48
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:19 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 08-146, Arthur Andersen v. Carlisle.
Mr. Baker.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF M. MILLER BAKER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. BAKER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The principal question before the Court
today is whether nonparties to an arbitration agreement
that are otherwise entitled to enforce that agreement
under State law are foreclosed as a matter of law from
seeking relief under section 3 of the Federal
Arbitration Act.
Respondents' argument that section 3
forecloses such relief to nonparties is contrary to both
the text of section 3 and the structure of the FAA.
Nothing in the text of section 3 forecloses nonparty
enforcement rights, and under the structure of the Act
section 3 is a procedural device to enforce, rather than
a substantive limitation upon, State law arbitration
rights made applicable by section 2.
I'll begin with the text of section 3.
Under section 3, a stay is mandatory if the issue in
suit is, quote, "referable to arbitration under such an
agreement." We contend that there are three elements
that determine whether or not an issue is referable to
arbitration under the agreement. First, the applicant
must be able to enforce the agreement. Second, the
plaintiff must be bound by the agreement. And, third,
the claim must fall within the scope of the agreement.
Nothing in section 3 limits who can enforce
the agreement. To answer that question we have to turn
to section 2.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Before you leave the
text, it says as you -- "referable to arbitration under
an agreement," but then it says "shall on application of
one of the parties." How do we know whether that is
parties to the litigation or parties to the arbitration
agreement?
MR. BAKER: Your Honor, it's -- it's clear
from the -- from the context it's referring to parties
to the action. Likewise, in section 4 there's a
reference to parties, and it's parties to the
controversy. So section 3 refers to parties to the
action in which the section 3 stay is sought. Section
4, likewise, the companion enforcement provision, refers
to parties to the controversy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And what -- what is
the "controversy"? Is it the controversy asserted to be
subject to arbitration or something else?
MR. BAKER: Well, "controversy" is in -- in
section 4, Your Honor, as opposed to section 3. But the
controversy in this case is a tort claim against various
defendants. And that -- the Petitioners in this case
assert that they are entitled to enforce the arbitration
clause, and under that clause this controversy is
supposed to be arbitrated.
Now, section 2 is the primary substantive
provision of the Act. Section 2 establishes that
questions concerning the enforceability of an
arbitration agreement, including who may enforce that
agreement, are decided by State law. This Court's
decision in Perry v. Thomas recognized and applied this
principle.
In Perry this Court remanded to State court
to decide the question of whether nonparties could
enforce an arbitration agreement. In so doing, this
Court instructed the lower court to apply State law to
determine the very question that's before this case,
whether non -- before this Court, whether nonparties
could enforce the arbitration agreement.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In practice, are there
decisions in which -- and I'm assuming that you are
right on the jurisdictional question -- in which a
nonparty to the arbitration agreement but a party to the
litigation has, in fact, succeeded in getting a stay
under section 3?
I mean, one question is -- and that's the
question on the merits -- assuming that a -- that a
party to the litigation, not a party to the arbitration
agreement, can come to court and say, court, stay the
action pending arbitration. Have there been cases in
which section 3 stays have been issued on the request of
someone who is not party to the arbitration agreement
but is a litigant in the case?
MR. BAKER: Yes, there have been, Your
Honor. And there -- there are numerous cases. In fact,
for the last 60 years it has been a recognized, settled
principle of FAA law that nonparties to an arbitration
agreement that are otherwise entitled to enforce the
agreement are able to seek and obtain stays under
section 3.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the question --
ability is one thing. It means they -- they have the
capacity to apply under section 3. I was just wondering
how in practice -- I mean, here's a case where you have
three parties together counseling a certain tax shelter.
One of them enters an arbitration agreement with the
enterprise that they are advising. The other two,
sophisticated players, do not.
My question is, conceding jurisdiction, it
seems to me unlikely that a court would listen to two
such people who were perfectly equipped to get an
arbitration agreement themselves and didn't.
MR. BAKER: Well, Your Honor, it depends
upon the facts and the law. It may well be that those
nonparties have no arbitration rights, in which case a
section 3 stay would not be available -- available to
them.
The question is whether they have rights
under State law. If they do have rights under State law
to enforce the arbitration agreement to which they are
not parties, then they are entitled to a section 3 stay.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I -- I don't see that the
-- that the section 3 stay follows from that. It may
very well be that in whatever ultimate forum the case is
thrashed out in that the -- that the nonsignatories will
be able to enforce the arbitration agreement.
The question here is whether they can get a
stay in midstream in order to litigate that as a
separate issue. And one argument for saying that they
should not, that the stay right should be limited to
signatories, is that the policy of the -- the Federal
Arbitration Act is to enforce arbitration agreements.
It is not a policy simply to promote arbitration under
all possible circumstances. It is a policy to enforce
contracts because the contracts, in effect, were being
given short shrift before the act was passed.
If the policy is one to enforce contracts
and, as Justice Ginsburg said, they had a chance to make
an arbitration agreement and they didn't do it, then
that is a good reason to say the Federal courts will not
stay the proceedings in midstream for somebody who
didn't get the agreement that that person could have
gotten. What is your answer to that argument?
MR. BAKER: Section 2, Your Honor, sets the
policy of the FAA, and section 2 establishes that State
law determines the rights and obligations of nonparties
to an arbitration agreement. If nonparties have rights
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: Including -- and -- and
you're saying that that covers, in effect, even a point
of Federal procedure as to whether you get, in practical
terms, an interlocutory appeal. That's a question of
State law?
MR. BAKER: Your Honor, that brings us to
the question of appellate jurisdiction, but first let me
deal with the merits. Section 3, as this Court has
recognized on various occasions, is a procedural device
to enforce the substantive policy of section 2. It has
no substantive component on its own.
Section 2 establishes -- settles the
question of who may enforce or is bound by an
arbitration agreement. It settles that question by
directing a court to look to State law. Section 3 is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And the question here is:
What is the procedure to be followed in a Federal court
when there is disagreement about that? And to say that
that is a question of State law strikes me as a stretch.
MR. BAKER: Your Honor, section 3 is a
procedural device to enforce State law arbitration
rights. Section -- likewise, section 4 is the same
thing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you say that section
2 -- it isn't at all clear to me that section 2 says
State law determines whether somebody not a party to the
arbitration agreement can -- can enforce it.
MR. BAKER: Your Honor, that was the reading
of this Court in the Perry v. Thomas decision in 1987.
This Court construed section 2 as being a touchstone for
choice of law and that section 2 required the court
concerning questions concerning the enforceability of an
arbitration agreement to look to State law to answer
those questions.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Including enforceability by
whom?
MR. BAKER: Absolutely. That was the
precise question before the court in Perry and this
Court remanded to the California Court of Appeals to
determine whether nonsignatories to an arbitration
agreement could enforce that agreement. The California
Court of Appeals on remand held that they could under a
theory of agency, which is indistinguishable in
principle from the theory that Petitioners are asserting
here today.
Respondents' theory, their interpretation of
the Federal Arbitration Act, would wipe out six decades
of FAA case law recognizing that nonparties have
enforcement rights.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we have any
situation -- and this one is really peculiar because the
one party who has the arbitration agreement with
Carlisle is now out of it, and is not going to get back
in, because -- is it Bricolage -- is bankrupt, so there
is an automatic stay of any litigation against
Bricolage.
The one party that has the arbitration
agreement is out of the picture, so you have an
arbitration agreement effectively with no one, that two
parties who have no arbitration agreement are trying to
enforce: The difference between parties to the
litigation joining in an ongoing arbitration brought by
either party to the arbitration agreement, and relying
on an arbitration agreement effectively without two
parties to it.
MR. BAKER: Your Honor, the bankruptcy of
Bricolage has no effect whatsoever on our rights under
State law to enforce the agreement. It is what it is,
but --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if you have a party
to the agreement who is no longer in the picture,
doesn't that change things?
MR. BAKER: Well, the Respondents might --
might contend so, and they -- they are free to argue on
remand the question of whether or not that bankruptcy in
any way affects our rights, whether we can prevail under
equitable estoppel in this case. But for purposes of
this Court, the question that we -- that the Court has
to decide is whether or not as a matter of law a
nonparty is foreclosed from seeking relief under section
3, and section 3 does not foreclose such relief because
section 2 establishes the principle that this -- that a
court is to look to State law to determine the question
of who can enforce an arbitration agreement.
So we're saying that Respondents' theory of
the case would wipe out 60 years of FAA case law
recognizing that nonparties have arbitration rights.
Theories such as third party beneficiary, assignment,
agency, estoppel, including equitable estoppel,
assumption, successor in interest, none of those cases
can survive effectively if this Court were to affirm the
decision of the Sixth Circuit.
I will now turn to section 16 and the
question of appellate jurisdiction. Respondents, like
the court below, erroneously conflate the merits of the
section 3 issue with appellate jurisdiction. Thus if
you reject their interpretation of section 3,
necessarily their appellate jurisdiction argument fails.
But that -- their theory of appellate jurisdiction
nevertheless should be rejected on its own merits.
Under section 16, and that's found at page 3
of the blue brief -- an appeal may be taken from an
order refusing a stay of any action under this title.
This establishes a broad category of orders that are
immediately appealable. The Sixth Circuit below used a
signatory test to determine whether it had appellate
jurisdiction. Now, this test is legally erroneous, as
the Respondents concede. For 70 years -- should be 80
years -- the Federal Arbitration Act has been understood
not to contain a signatory requirement.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May -- may I ask you this?
Let's assume State law said we -- we don't recognize
stays at this stage of the game. Therefore, we will not
give a stay to anyone. Would State law prevail?
MR. BAKER: Your Honor, State law controls
the question of who may enforce the agreement, who has
rights and obligations under the agreement. Sections 3
and 4 control the question of whether relief is
available in Federal court. The procedural devices to
enforce State law arbitration rights may vary from State
to Federal Court, but the principle of who --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't that the problem?
That's what I'm getting at. Isn't that the problem for
you in this case? Because you keep arguing that their
substantive rights under the agreement are issues of
State law, but the question before us is not one of
ultimate substantive right. At some point there will be
an -- an appellate process open to them and they can
assert those substantive rights if they didn't get them
at trial.
The issue here is not substantive right.
The issue here is a procedural right, and it's a
procedural right which depends upon the terms of the
Federal statute, and that's why it seems to me that it
may very well be that the Federal statute determines not
only the procedural right, the stay, but who may ask for
it, that being a sensible Federal question rather than a
State question.
MR. BAKER: Your Honor, the premise of your
question drives a wedge between section 2 and section 3
that is inconsistent with this Court's -- Court's
decision in Bernhardt. This Court in Bernhardt said
that section 3 cannot be read apart from section 2.
Section -- this Court has never characterized section 3
or section 4 as containing any substantive elements.
Such --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And your argument depends
upon, as Justice Scalia pointed out a moment ago,
reading section 2 as in effect incorporating State law
for purposes of determining substantive rights.
MR. BAKER: It absolutely does.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, but that still begs
the question whether the -- whether the incorporation of
State law to determine substantive rights controls the
question of what law determines procedural rights, when
a Federal procedural right is claimed, which is what is
involved here.
MR. BAKER: That's -- that's correct. And
sections -- it is a Federal question as to what sections
3 and 4 require.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And regardless of State law
the answer to the Federal question is independent of it.
MR. BAKER: That's not correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Then I'm -- I'm missing the
logic of your argument.
MR. BAKER: The logic of the argument is
that section 3 and section 4, as this Court has said on
several occasions, are devices to enforce the principle
of arbitration enforceability outlined in section 2.
Section 2 establishes the substantive principle here.
Sections 3 and 4 are mere procedural devices. Under --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But they are Federal
procedural devices and State law could not contradict
them. That's -- that's what we got into when I said
what if State law said there could be no stay? You
agree at that point that of course the Federal law would
prevail?
MR. BAKER: That would apply to -- that
would apply to the question of the -- the action in that
court, but in the Federal court the threshold --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It would apply to what the
judge is supposed to do at that moment when somebody
says, I want a stay. And the judge at that point
consults Federal law, not State law, doesn't he?
MR. BAKER: That -- on the procedural
question of what procedural mechanism --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, just stick to my
question. He says: I want a stay. Does the judge look
to State law or Federal law?
MR. BAKER: The judge first looks to the
question of who can enforce the agreement, and to ask
that -- to answer that question, the judge has to look
to State law.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why is that necessarily so?
I don't understand your answer to that question, or your
statement that your argument is dependent on the
resolution of that choice of law issue.
Are the courts of appeals unanimous on the
question of whether the enforceability of an arbitration
agreement by a nonparty is a question of State law? I
think there's at least a Fourth Circuit decision that
says it's a question of Federal law, but why -- why do
we have to decide that and why is your argument
dependent on it?
Suppose that is, suppose that were a
question of Federal law, what would that -- it might
change the ultimate outcome of whether there's an
entitlement to a stay, but I don't see why it has any
effect on a question of whether there is jurisdiction.
MR. BAKER: I don't think it has any
question -- effect on the question of jurisdiction, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Nor does it mean that you
necessarily cannot enforce the arbitration agreement,
does it?
MR. BAKER: It means that -- well, you have
to look to a source of law to determine whether a
nonparty has rights under an arbitration agreement. I'm
aware of that Fourth Circuit case. Your Honor, I
believe that the court was incorrect. I believe this
Court's decisions in Perry and ensuing cases make it
clear that State law determines the rights and
obligations of nonparties to an arbitration agreement.
That's a settled principle. And so that is a threshold
question that has to be --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if you read section
3, if you interpret, as you do, the word "parties" to
mean parties to the litigation, then for purposes of
jurisdiction the only thing is, is this person a party
to the litigation? Yes. End of case; they can move for
a stay. Then whether they're entitled to one because of
this equitable estoppel theory which is determined by
the State law is a merits question.
You are making a more complex jurisdictional
argument than I understand. What's wrong with the
simple argument that section 3 says parties; that means
parties to the litigation; the -- the Petitioners here
are parties to the litigation. Therefore, they can move
for a stay of the arbitration. And then we go to the
merits and say, do they have a good reason for staying
the arbitration?
But you're presenting a more complex
argument on the jurisdictional point which I don't quite
understand.
MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I'm not sure I
understand the question. Are you referring to appellate
jurisdiction or jurisdiction under the FAA?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: First, is there
jurisdiction -- yes, appellate jurisdiction. If you --
if there's an application to stay, is that appealable?
Why isn't -- why isn't the answer clearly yes?
MR. BAKER: The answer, Your Honor, is
clearly yes. If we're talking about --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But your step -- you seem
to be involving some merits question of State law in
that question.
MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I turned to the
merits first because the Sixth Circuit below erroneously
conflated two entirely distinct concepts. The first is
appellate --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You shouldn't do that.
You should tell us, this is the jurisdictional argument.
If we pass that threshold, then we get to the merits.
MR. BAKER: All right. Well, I'll start
with jurisdiction, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Good.
(Laughter.)
MR. BAKER: All right. Section 16 makes it
clear that all one needs to have for appellate
jurisdiction is a motion under section 3 for a stay
pending appeal, and that is denied. That establishes a
broad category of orders. The Sixth Circuit didn't
apply that text. The Sixth Circuit used a --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask -- may I ask?
Suppose it's somebody who has interest in the litigation
but is not a party either to the arbitration agreement
or to the litigation?
MR. BAKER: If a -- if a party -- if a
litigant makes a section 3 stay and they claim no right
to enforce the arbitration agreement, that denial of
that stay would be appealable, all right, because
section 16 --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm asking of somebody
who is not a litigant, who can -- if somebody who is an
interested spectator moves for a stay of litigation to
which that person is not a party, and the court says of
course not. Would that be reviewable on appeal?
MR. BAKER: No, because they -- the
spectator is not even a party, Your Honor, to the
litigation. Section 3 contemplates parties to the
litigation seeking a stay.
On the question of appellate jurisdiction,
if a litigant makes a request for a section 3 stay and
the stay request is denied, there is clearly appellate
jurisdiction under section 16. That is -- in our view.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's your
jurisdictional argument.
MR. BAKER: That's our jurisdictional
argument. The mere request for relief under section 3
and the denial of that request triggers appellate
jurisdiction.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you're saying that's
all that's before us because it was thrown out --
MR. BAKER: That's not all that's before
you. The Sixth Circuit below conflated the question of
whether there's appellate jurisdiction with whether non-
signatories can seek relief under section 3. That's why
it's essential for the Court to reach the second
questioned presented, which is whether non-signatories
as a matter of law are foreclosed from seeking relief
under section 3.
The court below -- I'll turn back to
appellate jurisdiction to -- Your Honor. The court
below used a fact-based test; that is, is the party
seeking relief a signatory to the agreement? That --
that cannot be the law. Eighty years of FAA law
establishes that you don't have to be a signatory to
enforce an arbitration agreement. In addition, it
violates this Court's rule that you look to categories
of orders, rather than the facts of a given case in some
appellate jurisdictions.
JUSTICE BREYER: What are the instances in
which somebody who is not a signatory might seem to have
a right to enforce it? I can think of one. Suppose
he's a third-party beneficiary of the contract. Are
there others?
MR. BAKER: Well, absolutely, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: What?
MR. BAKER: There's assignment, successor in
interest, assumption, estoppel.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MR. BAKER: There's a whole --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, which one applies
here?
MR. BAKER: Well, estoppel, and there are --
JUSTICE BREYER: Estoppel? I don't
understand estoppel.
MR. BAKER: Well, Your Honor, it's a theory
that was --
JUSTICE BREYER: I know what estoppel is in
the law.
(Laughter.)
MR. BAKER: More precisely, it's equitable
estoppel, but the -- the practice treatises have entire
chapters devoted to --
JUSTICE BREYER: I know, but I haven't
unfortunately had a chance to read all the practice
treatises. So could you explain to me quite simply what
is the theory of equitable estoppel that allows someone
who is not a signatory to an arbitration contract to
have it enforced?
MR. BAKER: Yes, Your Honor. The theory
here is that the Respondents asserted claims of -- of
concerted misconduct, of conspiracy against the
Petitioners, some of whom were -- one of -- well, none
of whom were signatories to the arbitration agreement in
Bricolage which did -- was a signatory to the agreement,
that claim of concerted misconduct, in our view, where
the Respondents are relying upon the agreement, that is
the agreement that they entered into with Bricolage to
-- is a theory upon which they are now seeking relief
from us. They are claiming that this contract that
contains the arbitration clause was an instrumentality
for the fraud that was perpetrated on them. Because of
that they are now estopped from seeking, claiming that
they are not -- not obligated to arbitrate under the
agreement.
JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, whenever I
sign a contract with anybody -- I sign one with Smith, I
ask him to buy some wheat, I sell him some wheat, and
there's an arbitration clause. And now I sue all kinds
of other people, and the contract is part of the
lawsuit. Are there many cases like that? Maybe it was
a shipper, or something, who they sent the contract to,
and he had to figure out what to do on the basis of the
contract. Or maybe there was a cousin who told me to go
to see Smith in the first place. Maybe -- I don't know.
There are a lot of people. So, now all those people
have to go to arbitration?
Because you're saying whenever I go in and
have a contract with X and there's an arbitration
clause, then in any future lawsuit where I sue anybody
and that contract is an essential part of it, the breach
thereof, he could put me in arbitration. Boy, that
sounds extreme. I mean, I guess there are -- there'd
have to be several treatises on this, but it doesn't
sound intuitively sensible.
MR. BAKER: Well, Your Honor, we're not
saying that that applies in every case. There's more --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, okay. That's all I
wanted to know is what's the theory in this case.
MR. BAKER: The theory of equitable
estoppel.
JUSTICE BREYER: If that's the theory, I --
unless I think it always applies, I could just say I
don't have to decide about a third-party beneficiary.
MR. BAKER: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: I just have to decide
whether you can enforce it. Now -- so you'd better say
some other things.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, of course, one of --
MR. BAKER: Well, Your Honor, give me --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: One of the things you're
going to say is that, with all due respect, Justice
Breyer, this conflates the merits with the
jurisdictional problem, which is exactly the mistake
that the court of appeals made. Is that your theory of
the case?
MR. BAKER: Well, that's -- that's the first
error of the court of appeals, but the court of -- the
second error of the court of appeals was to decide --
was to hold as a matter of law that section 3 does not
allow nonparties to enforce an arbitration agreement.
The question of the merits of equitable
estoppel is not before this court, Your Honor, and it
may well be on remand in the Sixth Circuit that --
JUSTICE BREYER: I wouldn't have asked my
question if you hadn't said we have to go beyond the
question whether they had jurisdiction and answer the
merits, which is whether you can in fact enforce it.
MR. BAKER: Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now you're saying, no, we
don't.
MR. BAKER: Your Honor, the merits -- there
are two parts to the merits. The first is whether as a
matter of law nonparties are foreclosed from seeking
relief under section 3. That -- that is all this Court
need decide. That is what the question --
JUSTICE BREYER: I could just rely on my
third-party beneficiary example?
MR. BAKER: As an example? Exactly. A
third-party beneficiary can enforce an agreement as a
matter -- is entitled to enforce -- to use section 3.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If he can do it under State
law?
MR. BAKER: If he can do it under State law.
Absolutely, Justice Scalia.
The question of whether or not we satisfied
the requirements of equitable estoppel is not before the
Court. That's a question to be decided on remand by the
Sixth Circuit.
Unless there are any further questions, I'd
like to reserve the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. De Marco.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. De MARCO
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. De MARCO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Estoppel is what you invoke when you have no
contract to invoke, and this version of equitable
estoppel is what you invoke when you have no arbitration
agreement to invoke.
I want to come to a question that was just
asked by Justice Breyer. Section 3 mandates only stays
in aid of contract-based arbitration obligations. They
are not fungible, these arbitration agreements. They
cannot just be picked up by anyone and advanced as a
ground for arbitration.
This court has consistently said, in Volt,
for example, at page 478: The FAA does not require
parties to arbitrate.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I thought the first
issue -- I never got past the first issue.
MR. De MARCO: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the first issue was,
does he have a right to appeal? And I read the statute,
and to me section 16 says yes. He asked for a stay. It
was denied, and it says an appeal may be taken from an
order refusing a stay. So there's an order refusing a
stay; he appealed. Why can't he appeal?
MR. De MARCO: Because the stay that he
requested was distinctly outside section 3, not as a
merits question, but so far outside question -- section
3 that we can say he should not -- that the stay was not
requested under section 3; it was not denied under
section --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any -- is there
any other example in the law -- I can't think of one --
where you say this party has so silly an argument, which
is really what you're saying --
MR. De MARCO: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that we don't even let
him appeal.
MR. De MARCO: Yes. There are --
JUSTICE BREYER: It seems to me I've gotten
a lot of appeals where the appeal, I don't think, is too
meritorious, but nonetheless I never heard of saying you
can't appeal.
MR. De MARCO: Right. There are sort of
what I would call the Trojan Horse appeals, where a
party actually has moved to compel discovery and they
characterized it as an injunction. When that was
denied, they said: An injunction was denied; we have
the right under 1292(a). The court of appeals is
perfectly able to pierce that and say: No, that's a
discovery motion; that's outside of the injunctive area.
And here why we're saying this, Your Honor,
we recognize what they say about the Behrens case. This
is an instance where we're asking the Court to, in a
sense, pull the veil on these section 3 --
JUSTICE BREYER: As to that, if you did
that, I got your first point. I understand it. I agree
with it.
As to the second point, you say -- I was
surprised because I hadn't quite taken that in -- that
we are now supposed to reach what we would call the
merits of the appeal. Now, there you just heard your
co-counsel say: Look, you don't have to decide whether
my equitable theory is good or not. You haven't read
the treatises, I have; which is a fair comment. And --
and all I want you to say is that sometimes, at least, a
third party could enforce a contract to arbitration that
two others make.
The statute doesn't say he can't. The
statute doesn't say he has to be the one who signed it.
And if you think of a third party beneficiary or an
assignment, for example, you would think, of course,
there are other people, say an assignee, who could
enforce it.
MR. De MARCO: Right. And there's a reason
why those -- in those cases, the third -- I will call
them nonparties were allowed to enforce. Let me preface
that by saying not all of those were -- we've heard a
lot about State law and Federal law. Not all of those
are tightly grounded in Federal law.
But take your example of the third party
beneficiary, they cite a case called J.P. Morgan in
which the woman was incompetent, the agreement with the
nursing home was signed as -- on her behalf. I think
that's clear in that kind of case that the nonparty is
asserting the right through the contract, because of the
contract, dependent on the contract.
Here, by claiming equitable estoppel not
only aren't the Petitioners asserting rights that flow
to them from the contract, because they have no
contract; they are actually saying -- this is the gist,
it gets back to your question, what's the gist of their
equitable estoppel theory. It's as we quote in footnote
13: The gist of it is that equitable principles prevent
Respondents from claiming that they have no obligation
to arbitrate with the Petitioners despite the lack of an
agreement.
Their very theory assumes that what section
3 says must exist is absent. Their very theory says we
don't have an agreement of our own to assert, and
therefore, we need equitable principles to fill the
void. Now, where do these equitable principles come
from?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then you might say that
they haven't stated a claim on which relief can be
granted, but that is the merits question. We are
supposed to be dealing with the question of whether the
denial of the stay -- there was a denial of a stay -- is
appealable under section 16. And to decide that
question I don't think you get into how meritorious
their claim was for the stay.
MR. De MARCO: Your Honor, the fact that
they have filed a motion, and as I referred to it, the
concern that we have, and I think the concern that
animated DSMC and Universal when they took up this
issue, was the Trojan Horse stay motion. We have to
keep in mind not every stay that is filed pending
arbitration, a stay pending arbitration is necessarily
filed under section 3, because in footnote 23 of Moses
H. Cone this Court recognized another kind of stay
pending arbitration, and that's a discretionary stay.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. And what is the
criterion for identifying a section 3 stay?
MR. De MARCO: The criterion, Your Honor, is
that the right to the stay must be -- the right to --
the statute speaks in terms of referable to arbitration
under an agreement. What does that mean? "Referable to
arbitration" is the arbitration obligation. "Under" in
that means dependent on, because of. So the
arbitrability of it depends on a written agreement.
JUSTICE SOUTER: And your -- and your
position is that the statute should be so construed that
only a signatory to the written agreement has a right to
the stay, indeed has a right to request the stay under
article 3?
MR. De MARCO: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What is your reason for
saying that?
MR. De MARCO: Just to clarify, the statute
being section 3.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes.
MR. De MARCO: Yes. The reason for that is
this Court has been very clear in its interpretations of
the FAA in general. The FAA in general, the Court has
said, requires -- does not require parties to arbitrate
when they have not agreed to do so. So that sets the
standard. If there is no agreement, you cannot force
that signatory, which didn't have an agreement with that
nonsignatory, to arbitrate.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what do you do with
third party beneficiary assignment assumption?
MR. De MARCO: All of those examples,
Justice Kennedy, in all of those examples the right to
enforce the agreement, let's say the right to procure a
stay based on the agreement, flows from the intention of
the parties to the original agreement.
The examples they use -- assignment, they
cite a case where there is -- there was an express
assignment, and in the assignment the Court said they
actually assigned the agreement with the arbitration
clause in it to the successor. They cite an assumption
case. It was an express signed assumption. Those are
all cases of contract-based arbitration.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in a way that was
where one of the parties, without the other party's
consent, say assignee, a third party beneficiary. Here
in a way it's a fortiori because the party who is
objecting, his or its own actions caused the agreement
to come into play. That's their theory.
MR. De MARCO: Well, let me tease that out a
bit. The -- one of the -- the problems in this area,
this equitable estoppel that has developed as an ersatz
form of equity principle, it is not tied to section 3
nor is it tied to State law. It is -- it is perfectly
ad hoc, so it's an amorphous concept that we've seen
develop over the last --
JUSTICE BREYER: Your proper -- I see this
is actually a pretty difficult question to me, and --
because it seems to me sometimes they have to be able to
enforce it, the assignee, the third party beneficiary.
MR. De MARCO: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And now what I don't know,
is what they're doing, it's true that section 3 and all
the other sections, they talk about the agreement, but
they don't say that the individual who is asking for the
stay has to be the same person who signed it, as they
couldn't. So how do we know which among all the
possible people in the case who hasn't signed it should
and should not be able to enforce it?
Their argument is look to State law, okay?
And your argument is derive some principles yourself.
Really.
MR. De MARCO: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And so, so -- is it
possible to answer this case by saying he's wrong in
thinking you always look to State law. It may depend on
what the State law says. So that's the answer to the
question. You should have had your appeal. Go appeal,
and let the courts below work that out first, knowing
that the State law is relevant but not always
determinative. Then we'll get some -- we'll get some
case law on this and we'll be in a better position to
figure out what the right answer is.
MR. De MARCO: Justice Breyer, the question
of arbitrability does not always depend on State law.
In Volt, in first options this Court said sometimes it
does, but it does when the issue is, was a contract
formed, is a contract valid. How are we going to
interpret that contract?
Here where equitable estoppel is concerned,
that's not the consideration. Therefore, because you
can -- you can interpret the contract until the cows
come home, you're never going to find the Petitioners in
it. So that the question --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you see it's a little
hard. I can imagine a case where they're sitting in the
room drawing up the contract, they put it in the
arbitration agreement. There are four other people
directly related to the room. The parties look around
and say, hey, we have arbitration here, I hope everybody
understands everybody is going to have to do this. And
they all say, okay, don't worry about it.
Now, I would say, hey, maybe they're
estopped. And there they're going right through the
contract.
MR. De MARCO: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: So I hate to write the
words "equitable estoppel is never relevant." I would
rather write the words "I'm uncertain State law is
relevant policy." You know, it's not true that it's
always relevant.
MR. De MARCO: I think the safest ground is
to clear up first this question of how arbitrability is
decided. And I think Justice Alito asked the question:
Is -- is there unanimity among the courts of appeals.
The Fourth Circuit case that I -- I think
was mentioned, I believe that's the Bailey case. I
don't even think there is unanimity, unfortunately,
within the Fifth Circuit. But there -- the -- the
better view, I think, that is expressed in the Fourth
Circuit case is that when the issue that's pivotal is
contract interpretation, arbitrability in that narrow
sense, that's State law. When it's not, it's Federal
law.
And I think that's why you see these
equitable estoppel cases not talking at all about State
law. It is sort of an ersatz, ad hoc version of Federal
equity that's being --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. Why shouldn't the
Federal law be even simpler than that? And I -- I
proposed one, and -- and probably because I don't
understand the law well enough, it may -- may have been
simply simplistic.
But my suggestion was the -- the issue
before us should be construed narrowly as being the
question of who can ask for a stay. And the answer to
that would be only a person -- or one possible answer to
that would be only a person who has signed the
arbitration agreement, because the Federal policy is to
enforce agreements, not force arbitration. And,
therefore, it is sensible as a matter of Federal policy
to say, we're not going to stop this trial in mid-track
for arbitration unless you who are asking for it to be
stopped signed an arbitration agreement yourself, and
it's that agreement that you're trying to enforce.
Now, that is maybe a -- a too simplistic
approach, but tell me what's good or bad about that.
MR. De MARCO: I think that it's the correct
approach to say that we are not talking generically
about the enforceability of arbitration agreements. We
are talking in the context under section 3 of an
existing lawsuit. That one party says, hey, I want to
stay this lawsuit. So it is a different enforcement
mechanism than -- than the -- than the generic law.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. That opens the door
to my simplistic theory. Now --
MR. De MARCO: Yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- is it a good theory or a
bad theory?
MR. De MARCO: It's a good theory because
then, once you've opened that door to the -- the ability
to ask for a stay, you must ask: Well, what are the
ground rules for asking for this stay?
And while my friend continuously returns to
State law, our point is you don't depart from the terms
of section 3 itself, because section 3 itself tells you
the circumstances under which the mandatory stay
provision applies. And those circumstances are only
when it is referable to arbitration under a written
agreement.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. But it seems to me
that that's not enough, because "under the written
agreement" leaves open the question of whether the
written agreement can be enforced right here and now by
getting a stay only by somebody who signed it or by a
third party beneficiary or -- or somebody dependent on
the contract plus some other legal theory.
My simplistic suggestion was: Keep it
simple and simply say the -- "under the agreement" means
an agreement signed by you, and the reason we confine it
to an agreement signed by you is not because the phrase
"under this agreement" tells us that. It doesn't. That
leaves the question open.
We say it is going to be confined to an
agreement signed by you because that's really the -- the
nub of the Federal policy. We want to enforce
agreements, and we want to confine this extraordinary
remedy of a stay to people who went to enough trouble to
make -- and I don't know whether that's a good idea or
not. And -- I mean it's favorable to you, so it's in
your interest to say it's a good idea, but I may be
getting into trouble by that. And that's what I want
you to tell me.
MR. De MARCO: Well, that's consistent with
the Federal policy as this Court has expressed that
Federal policy. It has -- it has said repeatedly the
Federal policy is not a general policy to encourage this
form of dispute resolution but, rather, it is to give
effect to parties when and if they agree to arbitration.
So I agree that that is, and should be, the starting
point of the analysis. Is -- and -- and it was
expressed in -- in Mitsubishi this way: That -- that
the intent of the FAA is to give effect to arbitration
agreements, to put them on an equal footing with all
other agreements, but not more so. And I believe what
-- what Petitioners are asking for is a "more so."
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. De Marco, can I ask
you this question? In section 3 do you agree with his
reading of the word "parties," or do you think "parties"
just means parties to the contract?
MR. De MARCO: With my friend's reading?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
MR. De MARCO: Justice Stevens, I have to be
honest and say I'm concerned about that argument because
I think Congress has used the word "parties" throughout
the FAA rather haphazardly to mean three different
things, maybe four: Party to the agreement, party to
the action, party to the arbitration, or party-like
person. And I would be concerned about hanging it on --
on that. So my -- my answer is, because of the way it's
used in sections 3, 4, 5, 9, I would be concerned about
-- about resting on that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You are concerned about --
does that mean you agree with him that "parties" means
parties to the action and not parties to the contract?
MR. De MARCO: I -- actually in section 3
what I would say is it's equivocal, and the rest of the
FAA doesn't help us understand that. So it's an -- it's
an issue on which I would not hang my hat, because it is
equivocal.
JUSTICE BREYER: What would you think about
saying that some parties -- some parties to the case who
are not parties to the contract can as third parties,
nonetheless, enforce arbitration? We have listed a few
examples, assignees, et cetera. When considering
whether this is one of them, judge, the key question --
we can tell you what the key question is and what it
isn't. What it is has to do with the intent of the
persons who did sign the contract.
MR. De MARCO: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Something related to that.
We don't have to be specific.
MR. De MARCO: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: What it isn't is a case
management device. Because what I think the temptation
would be for the judge is to -- is to -- let's send them
all off to arbitration if we can, and then I would not
have to worry about this case for a while. And come
back, and I'll figure it out.
MR. De MARCO: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: So is that -- is that
right, or is it wrong? What's your insight or guess on
that?
MR. De MARCO: I think it's -- it's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm just looking for ways
of separating these sheep from goats.
MR. De MARCO: Yes. The only way, I think,
to give effect to what the Court said, which is nobody
is going to be forced to arbitrate when they haven't
agreed to arbitrate, is for judges to take section 3
seriously when it is proffered as the basis for a stay
motion and to -- and to apply it as --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You -- you just told us
that section 3 was ambiguous. You don't know if the
reference to "parties" means parties to the arbitration
agreement or parties in the litigation. So how can we
take it -- we take it seriously, yes, and say there's an
ambiguity. We don't know from the text which is the
proper reference, parties to the agreement or parties to
the litigation.
MR. De MARCO: Justice Ginsburg, by
declining Justice Stevens's invitation of sorts to read
"parties" a particular way, I did not mean to -- to
suggest that the referable -- issue referable to
arbitration under a written agreement is ambiguous. I
don't think that's ambiguous.
I think as applied here in this case it's
clear that the -- the Petitioners' claim of
arbitrability does not flow, to use Justice Breyer's
terms, from that which the parties to the Bricolage
agreement intended. They don't claim that the parties
to that agreement intended for them to be covered, as
would be the case with a third-party beneficiary or --
JUSTICE ALITO: If the "parties" in -- in
section 3 means parties to the arbitration agreement,
would that mean that a -- someone who is not a party to
the litigation could file a stay motion under section 3,
someone who is not a party to the litigation but is a
party to the arbitration agreement?
MR. De MARCO: If it were limited to parties
to the -- if it were interpreted as parties to the
arbitration agreement, then it would suggest that a
party outside the litigation -- let's say a party that's
conducting an arbitration pursuant to an arbitration
agreement could intervene.
That's what happened in DSMC. The -- the --
one of the contracting parties intervened and said, we
are engaged in this arbitration. We want you to stop
this, what had been claimed to be, nonarbitrable
litigation.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, once they intervene,
they are a party to the litigation as well.
MR. De MARCO: Pardon me?
JUSTICE ALITO: Once they intervene they
are.
MR. De MARCO: There I think it was for the
limited purpose of seeking a stay. I -- I take your
point, though, that -- I -- I think we have to be
careful in -- in judging the -- a stay motion, to focus
on the language of section 3 under the under-written
agreement language, and when -- when that is the focus,
I think it's clear that theories such as equitable
estoppel, an outlier among all those theories that were
listed, assumption, assignment -- an outlier among
them -- uniquely says that despite the lack of a written
agreement to arbitrate, equity requires; equity says it
should be arbitrated. That -- that I think is
incompatible with the language of section 3.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you would recognize
that there is some appeal possibility, because you
already said or at least you said in your brief that the
12 might -- let's get this question settled about the
equitable estoppel and going to arbitration; That the
district court in its discretion that could give a
1292(b) order and say I want to get this issue settled
on appeal before I go on with the case.
MR. De MARCO: Correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That would be all right.
MR. De MARCO: There is an appellate pathway
and that is 1292(b). That has always existed for
discretionary stays. I think it applies when a party
attempts, perhaps labels its motion a section 3 stay,
but misses the mark by not truly grounding it in
section 3. When it misses the mark, their outlet --
their pathway to interlocutory appeal ought to be
1292(b), particularly because section 16(b) indicates
Congress felt that was a compatible accommodation in the
stay -- in the arbitration context.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well -- the district
judge could say, I'm going to treat this as a 1292(b)
issue, and I'm going to grant the stay so that the court
of appeals can tell -- can tell me what the law is?
MR. De MARCO: That's correct, Justice
Ginsburg. I want to be clear that the rule we propose
as to these claimants asserting equitable estoppel does
not preclude them from seeking a stay, even based on
equitable estoppel. And the best example I can give you
is one in the D.C. Circuit, in the post-DSMC era.
There's a case called Toledano in which the party was
asserting exactly the same theory that -- that
Petitioners are, equitable estoppel entitles us to a
stay. And what the court said there is well, DSMC has
come down and said you cannot under section 3 predicate
a stay on equitable estoppel, because you are by
definition saying I am not subject to a written
agreement; that's the predicate for section 3.
So what the District Court said in that
State -- in that case, it entertained the stay as a
discretionary stay, and it granted it. It granted it on
the very same ground that my friend is insisting should
be the ground for a mandatory stay in the post-DSMC era;
it's a basis in the District of Columbia for a
discretionary stay. It worked exactly the same way.
The difference was you -- you were true to
the language of section 3 and you were true to the
language of section 16(a)(1)(A); you don't have the
runaway stays in the D.C. Circuit that you have in the
Fifth Circuit and the Eleventh Circuit and to some
extent in the Fourth Circuit; and you don't have the
interlocutory appeals from those except under 1292.
I want to come back to a -- to a question
that was -- that was asked by Justice Ginsburg about
Bricolage. If Bricolage were, let's say, back in the
picture, or does the fact that Bricolage is out of the
picture make a difference?
The only sense in which an issue in this
case was ever referable to arbitration under an
agreement in writing is under the Bricolage agreement.
Once Bricolage departed the case, that obligation that
Respondents may have had to arbitrate with Bricolage
became inoperative, and what I see Petitioners
attempting to do is to disaggregate that the obligation
that Respondents undertook to arbitrate with Bricolage
from Bricolage's reciprocal obligation, detach it, and
run away with it as if it's a fungible commodity and say
we are now owed this obligation, when -- contrary to
everything this Court has ever said.
That's not the way the FAA works, because
with the FAA the starting point as this Court said in
Mitsubishi is did the parties agree to arbitrate that
dispute? And if we're talking about the -- the absence
of Bricolage, I think we're -- we're dealing with a case
where even among the equitable estoppel cases, this case
will turn out to be an outlier because of Bricolage's
absence.
I say that because we're also dealing with
accountants who were their accountants for 25 years
before Bricolage came along. We're dealing with a law
firm that had a written retention agreement, had a
contract with them and didn't think to put it in that
contract, saying, "oh, pay no attention to that, let me
show you this contract that they signed with someone
else."
It gets back to Justice Breyer's point: If
I -- let's say I unilaterally published in The
Washington Post, "I am through with litigation,
henceforth I will arbitrate every dispute with every
other human being that I get involved in." That's not a
section 3 agreement to arbitrate.
Agreement imports the notion of an exchange
of arbitration obligations, which we do not have here.
Bricolage is gone. There's no question that the premise
of this equitable estoppel argument is the absence of a
-- of an agreement to arbitrate should be overlooked
because of equity.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Bricolage did move to
compel, it did move for a stay, did make a section 3
application; and then it -- it became bankrupt and got
the benefit of the automatic stay in bankruptcy.
MR. De MARCO: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I take it that
Andersen and Curtis are saying we have a right to be
substituted for Bricolage. That's --
MR. De MARCO: That's what their -- that's
apparently their argument, and the problem is how do
they fill that gap. They attempt to fill it with State
law. I think State law does not apply, the language of
section 3 applies, Your Honor, and section 3 cannot get
them there from here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. De Marco.
Mr. Baker, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF M. MILLER BAKER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. BAKER: Thank you, Your Honor.
The question of appellate jurisdiction, the
Petitioners here made a motion for relief under section
3, and that motion was denied. Therefore there is
jurisdiction under section 16 to reach the question of
whether we were entitled to relief under section 3.
Respondents have made a very important
concession that decides this case. Respondents concede
that under section 3 nonparties can enforce an
arbitration agreement through the mechanism of section
3. That decides this case. This case should be
remanded to the Court of Appeals to decide the question
of whether on these facts, these nonparty Petitioners
can actually enforce section 3.
The Petitioners' quarrel is with the
doctrine of equitable estoppel. They don't like it, but
there's nothing in the text of section 3 that allows
this Court or any court to distinguish between the
various doctrines or legal theories that nonparties may
seek to which -- to enforce section 3. We happen to
have used section 3, happen to have invoked equitable
estoppel as the basis for invoking section 3, but it
could have been assigned and it could have been a third
party beneficiary.
They have -- Respondents have conceded the
principle that section 3 is available to provide relief
on nonparties who are otherwise entitled to enforce the
agreement. They just think that on the merits we don't
satisfy the requirements of equitable estoppel. That's
a question to be decided on remand. Equitable estoppel,
I will say very briefly, presupposes the existence of a
written arbitration agreement. In the absence of a
written arbitration agreement, Petitioners here would
not have any ability to assert this theory of equitable
estoppel. So -- so it's not completely separated from
or detached from the existence of a written arbitration
agreement.
I would like to turn to Justice Souter's
signatory test for allowing relief under section 3.
With all respect, this defies 80 years of case law
interpreting the Federal Arbitration Act. It defies the
history of the Federal Arbitration Act. It's settled
that Congress in enacting this Act, chose New York law,
and the New York arbitration act lad a much more
stringent requirement for arbitrating existing disputes
which required a signature.
Congress, as we outlined in our brief, did
not choose that section of the New York law as a model
when it enacted the FAA in 1925. 1292(b), the right to
appellate jurisdiction is illusory because that is
denied; a nonparty with arbitration rights be forced to
litigate and lose the very things that arbitration is
designed to avoid -- that is, the cost and time of being
in litigation in a district court. Not only that, the
District Court will suffer the loss of judicial
efficiency by having to litigate -- litigate a case
before it or adjudicate a case that should be in
arbitration.
Unless there are any further questions, I
will conclude the argument.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:19 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
50:2 9:19,25 10:8,8 animated 31:4 19:15 41:21 47:20 49:3,25
28:14 11:2,5,6,10,13 9:25 15:4 16:9 approach 37:6,8 50:19,20 51:1
34:3 12:1 13:8,9,17 16:12 18:18,19 arbitrability area 28:15 33:10
51:7 17:10,15 19:18 34:17 36:20,21 35:22 36:6 arguing 13:16
49:25 22:23,24 23:1 anybody 23:11 arbitrate 23:8 2:2,7 3:3,6,16
21:19 30:11,14 31:16 apparently 48:9 41:19 43:25 15:7,8 16:13
31:19,22 32:11 appeal 8:21 46:14,17,24 16:20 18:2,3
32:24 33:7,23 20:4 27:10,12 arbitrated 5:9 20:14,16 26:14
37:3,4 38:4,7,8 29:1 34:12,12 arbitrating 39:23 47:22
10:14 38:19 40:1 appealable arbitration 3:11 Arthur 1:3 3:4
50:9,10 41:25 42:3,9 12:22 18:17 3:15,22 4:1,4 article 31:24
42:15,16,19,23 19:23 30:23 4:12,15 5:2,7 asked 25:10
12:20 45:15 46:12,12 appeals 10:6,9 6:7,9,11,16,25 35:23 46:6
40:2,9 47:8,18,19,23 16:15 24:25 7:6,9,14,20 8:1 asking 19:25
37:9 38:21 1:15 12:1,4 13:1,12 asserted 5:1
35:23 42:18 19:11 20:9,11 22:17,23 23:5 assigned 32:24
39:8,9 allowed 29:16 48:20 50:18 26:20,24,25 33:5,19
40:8 allowing 50:7 applicable 3:23 27:2 29:6 31:7 assignees 40:19
allows 22:16 applicant 4:4 31:7,10,15,17 assignment 12:5
ambiguity 42:2 18:17 48:2 33:2 35:7,9 32:15,21,23,23
4:2,4,5,6 41:23 42:9,10 42:11 37:3,9 38:3 assume 13:4
amorphous applies 21:25 39:8,12 40:2 assumes 30:12
33:14 24:6,12 38:2 40:18 41:6,24 assuming 5:25
analysis 39:10 44:15 48:12 42:9,19,23 6:6
32:15,25 basis 23:17 47:1,7,21,25 categories 21:11 29:24 32:7
43:23 41:20 45:21 48:7 category 12:21 35:22 42:12
behalf 1:16,18 brief 12:19 44:5 certain 6:24 20:11
Behrens 28:17 broad 12:21 change 11:14 35:2 41:7
13:11 36:1 39:14 brought 11:4 chapters 22:12 comment 29:4
beneficiary 12:5 buy 23:12 characterized commodity
38:10 California 10:6 51:4 44:21
41:8 46:5 Bernhardt 14:9 29:15 choose 50:16 completely 50:3
47:13 14:9 called 29:21 chose 50:11 complex 18:1,9
4:17 beyond 25:11 Carlisle 1:7 3:4 18:25 19:14,15 conceded 49:18
6:13 7:7 bit 33:10 10:20 20:22 25:9 conceding 7:3
9:12 blue 12:19 case 3:4 5:5,6,21 26:9 35:25 concept 33:14
10:4 11:8 bound 4:6 9:5 6:12,23 7:9,18 36:3,5 45:7 concepts 19:1
13:7 Boy 24:1 10:15 11:19 46:1,2,2,3 concern 31:3,3
breach 23:25 12:3,3 13:16 circumstances concerned 34:24
16:2 Breyer 21:14,20 17:11,22 21:12 8:3 38:1,2 39:23 40:3,5,7
17:2,8 21:23,25 22:3 24:6,8 25:1 cite 29:21 32:22 concerning 5:12
22:7,13 23:10 28:17 29:21,24 32:25 9:24,24
24:7,11,15,23 32:22 33:1 claim 4:7 5:5 concerted 22:21
25:10,15,22 34:2,9,16 35:5 19:21 22:25 22:25
26:23 27:6,9 35:25 36:1,5 30:19,25 42:12 concession 49:1
27:21 28:1,4 40:16 41:3,7 42:15 conclude 51:3
28:20 33:16,21 42:11,17 44:10 claimants 45:4 conducting 43:3
34:8,18 35:4 45:8,17 46:11 claimed 14:23 Cone 31:9
48:16,17 35:16 40:15,25 46:13 47:1,2 43:8 confine 38:14,21
41:3,10,14 49:1,4,4 50:8 claiming 23:4,7 confined 38:18
Bricolage 10:21 cases 6:9,14 clarify 32:3 20:22
48:3 22:24 23:2 23:15 29:15 23:13,24 32:25 Congress 39:24
5:5,8 D depend 34:10,19 discretionary
15:5 37:7 De 1:18 2:5 16:13,21 30:1 45:18,22
cost 50:21 28:3,8 29:14 13:25 14:14 disputes 50:13
51:4 32:3,6,16 33:9 derive 34:5 distinctly 27:16
36:19 course 15:18 35:15,21 37:7 despite 30:10 49:11
3:10 5:17,17 41:9,13,16 determinative doctrine 49:9
9:7,9,21,22,23 45:2 48:4,8,15 5:21 10:7 door 37:14,20
11:20,20,25 dealing 30:21 14:21 17:9 drives 14:7
44:22 13:13 14:9,11 decades 10:14 17:24 43:5 45:11
17:12 20:3,25 11:21 16:20 9:18 14:2,22 D.C 1:9,16 45:7
23:4,11 25:3,3,4,8,20 25:21 29:2 determining
26:8,17 27:3 30:23 49:5 14:17 E
26:19 28:13,18 31:9 decided 5:14 develop 33:15 E 2:1 3:1,1
30:1,1 32:7,8,23 26:8 35:23 developed 33:11 effect 8:4,19
34:21 34:20 39:4 49:23 device 3:21 9:1 11:9 14:16
35:1 41:17 44:8,25 decides 49:1,4 9:13 41:4 17:1,3 39:8,12
36:6 45:11,16 46:21 decision 5:15 devices 13:11 41:17
39:19 46:23 49:5,11 9:21 12:9 14:9 15:10,13,15 effectively 11:1
49:11 50:22,23 16:18 devoted 22:12 11:6 12:8
courts 8:9 16:15 decisions 5:25 difference 11:3 efficiency 50:24
14:8,8 17:13 defendants 5:6 39:25 19:18
33:2 cousin 23:18 definition 45:14 directing 9:7 14:12
cows 35:1 denied 19:13 46:16 enacting 50:11
31:13 50:19 discovery 28:10 4:5,8 5:7,13,19
6:17 7:14 30:15,16 33:11 example 25:23 29:18,19 36:7 36:4 46:3
8:1,3,6 34:24 35:17 25:24 27:4,22 36:11,14,23,25 fraud 23:6
43:21 29:11,20 45:6 38:20 39:4,5,6 free 11:16
11:3,10 44:7 45:4,6,10 examples 32:16 50:9,10 friend 37:23
13:8,12 45:13 47:2,22 32:17,21 40:19 felt 44:21 45:19
16:8 49:9,14,22,23 exchange 47:19 Fifth 36:3 46:2 friend's 39:20
19:22 50:2 exist 30:13 figure 23:17 fungible 26:25
24:16 equity 33:12 existed 44:14 34:17 41:8 46:19
43:25,25 existence 49:24 file 42:21 further 26:10
29:6,13 47:24 50:4 filed 31:2,6,8 51:2
32:18 equivocal 40:11 existing 37:11 fill 30:15 48:10 future 23:24
34:3 40:14 50:13 48:10
37:4 era 45:7,20 explain 22:15 find 35:2 G
40:18 erroneous 12:24 express 32:22 firm 47:8
9:24 10:2 error 25:3,4 39:4,11 19:1 23:19 general 32:8,8
16:16 ersatz 33:11 extent 46:3 25:2,18 27:6,7 39:6
36:11 extraordinary 27:9 28:21 generic 37:13
2:5,8 extreme 24:2 flow 30:3 42:13 getting 6:3
4:23 23:25 F focus 43:18,20 39:1
37:12 establishes 5:11 FAA 3:18 6:16 followed 9:9 Ginsburg 4:11
12:6,6 17:24 fact 6:3,14 25:13 forced 41:18 44:3,12,23
7:15 26:7,18,20 fact-based 21:6 11:22 21:2 give 13:6 24:20
26:1 30:2,7 33:11 fails 12:15 25:19 39:7,12 41:17
49:20 34:24 35:17 fair 29:4 forecloses 3:17 44:8 45:6
44:7 45:4,6,10 far 27:17 form 33:12 39:7 go 18:6 23:18,21
17:24 everybody 35:9 13:13 14:1,2,4 four 35:7 40:1
34:22
24:9
14:23 15:1,4 48:16 35:2,10,13
26:7,19 exactly 24:24 15:14,18,22 Fourth 16:18 37:1 38:18
30:2,7,8 25:24 45:9,22 16:1,6,19,23 17:11 35:25 41:18 44:7,24
18:12,19,24 instance 28:18 issued 6:10 31:11,20 32:1
29:3 37:6 21:19 22:5,19 instructed 5:20 33:3,16,21
38:23 24:5,14,20 instrumentality J 34:8,18 35:4
25:8,14,17 23:5 joining 11:4 35:16,23 36:13
Horse 28:9 31:5 40:22 judges 41:19 41:3,10,14,22
37:22 interest 12:7 judicial 50:23 43:10,13 44:3
I 19:17 21:22 jurisdiction 7:3 44:12,23 45:2
31:12 interlocutory 17:1,3,21 51:4
8:18 10:2 12:6 interpretations 19:4 20:14,15 33:3
14:16 intervened 43:6 10:2,17 11:12 38:23 41:23
independent 26:20,21 16:4,11 17:5 L
indicates 44:20 invoking 49:15 19:3,8,16,25 lack 30:10 43:24
7:7 8:13 inoperative 27:7,7,9 31:5 26:2,5,12,16 law 3:13,13,22
9:12,20 46:15 34:21 36:5,18 26:23 27:6,9 5:14,20 6:16
13:7 14:6 insight 41:11 40:13 42:8 27:21 28:1,4 7:8,13,13 8:15
17:4,11 insisting 45:19 44:9,25 46:10 28:20 30:18 8:22 9:7,11,13
19:19 20:2,7,845:2 48:4,8,15 Morgan 29:21 21:1
11:10,21 41:25 42:4,21mark 44:17,18 Moses 31:8 notion 47:19
12:3 42:22 43:2,9 matter 1:12 3:13 motion 19:12 nub 38:20
47:15 11:21 21:2 28:15 31:2,5 numerous 6:14
50:22 25:5,19 26:1 41:21 42:21 nursing 29:23
little 35:4 36:25 51:7 43:18 44:16
LLP 1:3 mean 6:5,23 48:21,22 O
logic 15:7,8 17:5,20 21:25 move 17:22 18:5
21:2,8,8 look 9:7,25 38:24 39:25 moved 28:10 obligated 23:8
25:5,19 11:25 16:5,9 40:8 42:7,20 moves 20:2 obligation 30:9
27:22 17:9 21:11 means 6:21 17:8 31:17 46:13,16
29:2 34:4,10 18:3 31:18 N 46:18,20
34:4,10 35:8 38:13 39:19
36:7,8 looks 16:7 42:19
45:1 loss 50:23 37:13 49:3 12:15 16:11 occasions 9:1
48:11,11 lot 23:20 28:5 mentioned 36:1 17:6 31:7 15:10
29:18 mere 15:13 need 25:21 oh 24:7 47:10
meritorious needs 19:11 okay 14:19
48:17 18:7,22,25 12:17 37:14 38:5
43:2 44:6 41:4 27:17 29:1 nonarbitrable ongoing 11:4
47:14 mandates 26:23 30:20 49:21 43:8 open 13:20 38:7
38:1 45:20 8:10 3:17 5:18,22 opened 37:20
43:16 26:13,14,16 2:3,8 3:6 48:17 12:4 17:15 options 34:20
31:1,13,25 misconduct nonparty 3:19 order 7:22 12:20
20:1,10 35:15,21 37:7 missing 15:6 29:24 49:6 19:14 21:12
original 32:20
Mitsubishi nonsignatories ought 44:19
10:7 outcome 16:24
10:22
model 50:16 nonsignatory outlet 44:18
17:20,22 42:5,24 43:12 moment 14:15
outlier 43:22,23
19:17
44:11,13 15:24 non-signatories 47:3
party-like 40:2 plus 38:11 30:15,16 34:5 15:4,21 16:3,5
43:2 passed 8:5 15:18,25 18:10 problem 13:14 16:17,19,23
44:19 39:10 43:17 48:9 18:13,22,23
pointed 14:15 procedural 3:21 25:11,12,21
19:13 31:6,7 38:20 39:4,5,6 15:15 16:2,3 33:17 34:12,18
38:22 possible 8:3 34:2 process 13:20 47:21 48:20,23
28:14 33:13 Post 47:15 proffered 41:20 questioned 21:1
6:24 perpetrated post-DSMC promote 8:2 questions 5:12
11:2,3,7 23:6 45:7,20 proper 33:16 9:24 10:1
18:3 Perry 5:15,17 practical 8:20 42:3 26:10 51:2
20:7 9:21 10:5 practice 5:24 propose 45:3 quite 18:10
32:9,20 17:13 6:23 22:11,14 proposed 36:15 22:15 28:24
35:8 39:8 person 8:11 precise 10:5 provide 49:19 quote 4:1 30:7
17:21 20:3 precisely 22:10 provision 4:23
33:25 36:21,22 preclude 45:5 5:11 38:2 R
41:24 40:3 predicate 45:12 published 47:14 R 3:1
42:3 persons 40:23 45:15 pull 28:19 reach 20:25
Petitioners 1:5 preface 29:16 purpose 43:16 28:25 48:23
1:17 2:4,9 3:7 premise 14:6 purposes 11:19 read 14:10
46:24 5:6 10:11 18:4 47:21 14:17 17:20 17:18 22:14
10:19,24 42:12 45:10 presupposes 39:13 47:9 reading 9:20
12:5 46:15 48:18,21 49:24 p.m 51:6 14:16 39:18,20
19:18,20 49:6,8 50:1 pretty 33:17 really 10:18
21:6 phrase 38:15 prevail 11:18 Q 27:24 34:6
28:10 picked 27:1 13:6 15:19 quarrel 49:8 38:19
picture 10:25 prevent 30:8 question 3:10 reason 8:9 18:7
33:5,6 11:13 46:8,9 primary 5:10 4:9 5:18,21 6:1 29:14 32:1,6
37:11 pierce 28:14 principal 3:10 6:5,6,20 7:3,12 38:14
40:1,1,2 pivotal 36:5 principle 5:16 7:21 8:21,24 REBUTTAL
place 23:19 6:16 10:11 9:5,6,8,11 10:5 2:7 48:17
plaintiff 4:6 11:24 13:13 11:17,20,25 reciprocal 46:18
45:8 play 33:8 15:10,12 17:16 12:11 13:8,10 recognize 13:4
players 7:2 33:12 49:19 13:18 14:4,5,7 28:17 44:3
9:1 31:9 required 9:23 17:14 30:3 14:7,7,10,10 separating
12:4 requirement ROBERTS 3:3 15:9,9,11,12 seriously 41:20
31:15,16 requirements 48:14 51:4 19:10,12,21,24 sets 8:13 32:10
42:8,8 26:7 49:22 room 35:6,8 20:7,10,12,16 settled 6:15
requires 32:9 rule 21:11 45:3 20:24 21:3 17:16 44:6,9
42:3 reserve 26:11 run 46:19 26:23 27:11,16 settles 9:4,6
respect 24:22 S 31:8,12 32:4 shipper 23:16
1:19 2:6 3:16 satisfied 26:6 40:10 41:19,23 shrift 8:5
46:14,17 48:25 25:15 27:24 48:12,21,23,24 signatory 12:23
rest 40:11 30:5 32:2 34:9 49:14,15,19 22:17,24 31:22
13:10 retention 47:8 47:10 48:6 sections 13:9 signature 50:14
21:2 returns 37:23 says 4:12,13 15:1,1,13 signed 29:9,23
23:3 reviewable 20:4 9:17 15:25 33:23 40:5 33:1,25 34:2
30:19 right 6:1 7:24 16:5,19 18:3 see 7:16 16:25 36:22 37:3
49:19 13:19,23,24,25 20:3 27:11,12 23:19 33:16 38:9,14,15,19
14:3,23 19:6 30:13,13 34:11 35:4 36:9 47:11
28:8,13 29:14 14:15 26:2,5 49:13 38:13
25:9 32:18 33:20 25:4 28:23 21:2,7 23:3,7 37:5,15 38:12
49:23 34:7,17 35:13 section 3:14,16 25:19 43:16 simply 8:2 22:15
49:5 40:24 41:2,9 3:24,25 4:8,10 seen 33:14 sir 27:8
7:9,12,13 8:15 7:10,15,17 46:10 Sixth 12:9,22
8:16 9:14 8:13,14,25 9:2 sensible 14:4 18:25 19:14,15
12:4 13:9,12 9:16,17,22,23 sent 23:16 26:9
15:24 statute 14:1,2 substantive 3:22 37:24 42:14 25:23,25 42:17
20:1 27:10 29:8,9 5:10 9:2,3 test 12:23,24 Thomas 5:15
38:9,10 31:15,21 32:3 13:17,19,21,23 21:6 50:7 9:21
6:3,8 7:10,15 15:12 4:12 19:15 thrashed 7:19
9:8 13:3 20:8,10,11 43:1 17:24 22:5,16 time 26:11 50:21
14:14,19 27:11,13,14,15 suggestion 22:19 23:3 title 12:20
27:18 30:22,22 36:18 38:12 24:8,9,11,25 today 3:11 10:12
31:11,20 30:25 31:5,6,7 suit 4:1 29:3 30:7,12 told 23:18 41:22
36:13 31:9,10,12,14 suppose 16:22 30:13 33:8 Toledano 45:8
38:5 31:23,23 32:19 16:22 19:17 37:15,17,18,19 tort 5:5
48:3 think 16:18 17:2 31:5
stays 6:10,18 T 2:1,1 27:22 28:5 39:1
8:14 13:5 26:23 take 29:20 41:19 29:10,11,23 true 33:22 35:19
9:7,11,13 44:15 46:1 42:1,1 43:16 30:24 31:3 45:23,24
11:10 step 18:21 48:5 35:21,23,25 truly 44:17
13:4,6,7 Stevens 39:16 taken 12:19 36:2,4,9 37:7 trying 11:2 37:4
39:21,22 40:7 27:12 28:24 39:18,24 40:15 Tuesday 1:10
Stevens's 42:6 talk 33:23 41:4,13,16 turn 4:9 12:10
stick 16:4 talking 18:20 42:10,11 43:15 21:4 47:3 50:6
stop 37:1 43:7 36:10 37:8,10 43:17,21 44:1 turned 18:24
18:22 stopped 37:3 46:25 44:15 47:1,9 two 7:1,4 11:1,6
29:18 stretch 9:11 tax 6:24 48:11 49:21 19:1 25:18
34:4,10 strikes 9:11 tease 33:9 thinking 34:10 29:7
stringent 50:13 tell 19:4 37:6 third 4:6 12:5
36:7,10 structure 3:18 39:2 40:21 29:6,10,15,20 U
45:17 3:20 45:1,1 32:15 33:5,19 ultimate 7:18
subject 5:2 tells 37:25 38:16 38:10 40:17 13:19 16:24
Washington 1:9 years 6:15 12:3 9:7,12 11:23
18:2,11 33:6 39:11 York 50:11,12 14:7,10,11
22:4 40:4 41:16 50:16 15:2,9,13
36:16 42:7 45:22 17:19 18:3
46:22 0 19:12,21 20:7
ways 41:14 21:3 25:5,20
we'll 3:3 34:15 12 44:6 30:13 31:8,12
we're 12:2 18:20 1292 46:4 33:12,22 37:10
36:2 37:1 46:25 1292(b) 44:9,14 40:5,10 41:19
we've 29:17 13 30:8 43:19 44:2,16
woman 29:22 16(a)(1)(A) 49:10,13,14,15
words 23:10 1987 9:21 4 4:19,23 5:4
worked 45:22 2 3:23 4:10 5:10 15:13 40:5
wouldn't 25:10 14:7,10,16 5
36:4 writing 46:12 2009 1:10
42:9
49:25 70 12:25
29:5 41:11 3:16,18,19,21
38:20,21 3:24,25 4:8,21 80 12:25 50:8
43:7 44:9 X 4:22 5:4 6:4,10 9
46:5 x 1:2,8 23:23 6:19,22 7:10 9 40:5
