IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
KAREN L. JERMAN, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-1200
CARLISLE, MCNELLIE, RINI, :
KRAMER & ULRICH LPA, ET :
AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 13, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:21 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
WILLIAM M. JAY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Petitioner.
GEORGE S. COAKLEY, ESQ., Cleveland, Ohio; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
WILLIAM M. JAY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 22
GEORGE S. COAKLEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 33
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:21 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 08-1200, Jerman v. Carlisle,
McNellie, Rini, Kramer, & Ulrich.
Mr. Russell.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN K. RUSSELL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. RUSSELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Congress rarely makes ignorance of the law a
defense to civil liability, and the Fair Debt Collection
Practices Act is no exception to that rule. While it
may seem unfair to hold defendants in some sense
strictly liable for legal mistakes in the civil context,
the accumulated wisdoms of generations of legal practice
has been that attempting to fix that unfairness through
a mistake of law defense causes more harm than it
prevents.
And as a consequence, in light of that
subtle understanding, courts should not read a Federal
statute to establish a mistake of law defense, unless
Congress quite plainly makes that intent to do so clear.
And in this case, nothing in the text, structure, or the
history of the bona fide error provision of the FDCPA
indicates such an intent.
I could begin with the -- the text of the
statute. It is not enough under the bona fide error
provision that the defendant's violation be in good
faith, that it have been bona fide.
There is an additional element, that the
defendant has to show that the violation was not
intentional. And in common legal discourse, a violation
is not rendered unintentional simply because the
defendant misunderstood the legal consequences of its
actions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think -- reading
"intentional" the way you just articulated is absolutely
right, but when you add -- I don't see what work "bona
fide error" does in the statute, if "intentional" should
be read in this case to mean what you say.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, I think it captures the
circumstance in which somebody makes a mistake of fact,
but does so and with -- not in good faith. I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you say: Well,
intentional means you meant to send out the document;
you meant to serve it; in other words, no specific
intent requirement. But if -- a bona fide error, it
seems, doesn't make the activity not intentional under
the traditional understanding of intentional.
MR. RUSSELL: But I think that's right. I
think both provisions do separate work, and so that if
all it took to show that something wasn't intentional is
that you didn't mean to violate the law, it would be
very difficult to understand what work "bona fide" was
doing in that circumstance.
And I think Congress included the bona fide
requirement in order to capture instances in which
people make factual mistakes, but not in good faith.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I really don't think that
the -- the word that we're wrestling with here is the --
the word "intentional." It seems to me it's the word
"violation," because violation -- when it says the
violation was intentional or unintentional, does
"violation" mean the act that constitutes a violation of
the law, or does "violation" mean the -- the fact of
violating the law?
MR. RUSSELL: I think that is the central
question here and it is Respondents' best argument. I
think that the word "violation" is best understood to
refer to the act. That is how this Court has construed
that word in the statutory phrase "knowing violation" in
a number of cases, and that's how the courts of appeals
have construed the term "intentional" -- or "intentional
violation" in the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural
Workers Protection Act, which we cited in our brief.
I did mention in our brief that it is a less
usual formulation, "intentional violation," and at the
time we wrote our briefs we weren't able to find any
cases from this Court construing that particular term.
JUSTICE BREYER: So what -- the part that's
worrying me most is where the lawyer is the debt
collector. All right? So he's within the act, and he
has a client of debt collectors, and the clients all
say: Please go collect the debt. And they say: We
want to do this, like in this -- suppose in this case,
they say: Tell us if you don't owe it; ask them to
write a letter to that effect; we won't collect it; now,
is that legal?
And the lawyer looks up everything in sight
and says, yes, it's legal. And then that's what he
thinks. All the circuits have said this. And then he
asks the FTC and they say, yes, it's legal. So there he
is. Everybody's told him it's legal. And lo and
behold, this Court, surprisingly, holds the opposite.
Well, he shouldn't be liable. And if he has to worry
about that, he can never defend his client. The only
answer is: Whatever the man says who is opposed to your
client, that's what you have to do. That can't be the
meaning of this statute.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, let me address the
hypothetical, to make sure I understand it. If we're
talking -- well, first of all, if we are talking about a
case in which they've asked the opinion of the FTC, they
are entitled to the safe harbor defense, because
Congress specifically --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. What the FTC said
is: We won't give you one.
MR. RUSSELL: Okay. Well, in that
circumstance, I think it's important to distinguish
between lawyers who are simply giving advice to debt
collector clients -- they're not covered by the act.
It's only when the lawyer engages in debt collection
activities himself. And a lot of the time the debt --
the lawyer is simply --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does litigation constitute
debt -- debt collection activity?
MR. RUSSELL: Yes. This Court held in
Heintz that litigation can be a form of --
JUSTICE BREYER: So he is a lawyer
litigating for a client. That was my hypothetical.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. RUSSELL: In that circumstance -- in
that circumstance, I think yes, the lawyer can be held
liable for -- for mistakes. But to the extent this
Court --
JUSTICE BREYER: It's not a mistake. The
point is, in a sense, that any decent lawyer would say
that's what the law was; that sometimes lawyers get
surprised because courts don't always act the way they
think is reasonable.
MR. RUSSELL: And when that happens, their
clients are almost never protected from liability, for
-- because they did what their lawyers reasonably told
them to. And the antitrust --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why aren't they in good
faith?
MR. RUSSELL: The lawyer?
JUSTICE BREYER: Both.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, certainly, because there
generally is a mistake of law defense.
JUSTICE BREYER: Ah, but that's in your view
of it. I am saying that the opposite view of it is that
your view of it puts lawyers in an impossible position,
let alone the client.
MR. RUSSELL: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: It -- it's not just that
it's unfair. It's worse than unfair. The lawyer is
under an obligation to represent his client, and he
cannot do anything but tell the client: Just pay money
to this particular plaintiff whose view of the law is
totally contrary to every circuit court that's ever
decided it. Now, how can you put lawyers in that
position?
MR. RUSSELL: I think the lawyers are not in
a terribly different position than is, for example, the
executive of a company that has a fiduciary duty to its
shareholders to maximize profits and is considering a
venture that could violate the antitrust laws. And in
that circumstance, they have to make a calculated
judgment, because the antitrust laws don't have a
mistake of law defense. And neither does any other
civil --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you are sort of
begging the question there. I mean, the antitrust laws
also don't have a bona fide error defense, and the
question is whether that includes a legal mistake
defense.
MR. RUSSELL: That's right. And my -- my
point simply is that you shouldn't read that defense as
necessarily creating a mistake of law defense simply
because you think it's so unfair, because that
unfairness is simply common.
JUSTICE BREYER: But it -- but it suggests
that you would like a -- a sensible interpretation of
this that avoids the result I said, if possible. And
there is a different way of going about it, which is you
could say that a bona fide error in respect to a lawyer
imposes much higher standards on that lawyer than it
does on most -- and it's simply a client -- that before
you can call an error bona fide, that lawyer really has
to look into it. He has to have asked the FTC. He has
to have gotten -- and made an effort to get a letter
back. And if there are one or two circuits that hold
the other way, well, where? And if you don't, you are
not bona fide.
Now, that would get to virtually the same
place but it would protect the lawyer against true legal
surprise.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, I do think that if you
disagree with us, that's the better reading than the
second. That's not the reading most courts have given.
It's not the reading that the Sixth Circuit gave in this
case.
But I think there is every reason to think
that if Congress was concerned about the especially
problematic application of this statute to lawyer
conduct and particularly to litigation conduct, it would
have expected courts to deal with that in different way,
and not through the bona fide error defense, which,
after all, applies to lawyer who are engaging in the
same conduct as lay debt collectors and to nonlawyers
alike. It's a very blunt instrument for dealing with
this problem.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One -- one of the
things you have to include on this initial communication
is the name of the creditor, right?
MR. RUSSELL: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So let's say
the bank that is the creditor is being sold or taken
over. And, you know, you have heard that, well, they
have merged, but, you know, the closing date of the
merger is two months later or whatever. It's just not
clear what the name of the creditor is. So you -- you
are not a lawyer, but you are trying to collect the
debt, and you go -- you fill in, I -- it's either A or
B, and you say: I think it's A, and you fill it in and
it turns out that it's -- it's B. Let's say that's a
bona fide error. Okay?
But if you are sitting there as the debt
collector and you say: I don't know if it's A or B.
And you say: I know; I'll call the lawyer. You call
the lawyer and the lawyer says: Oh, it's -- it's B -- I
mean, it's -- it's A. And you put down A and it turns
out it's wrong, aren't -- you are in a worse position if
you ask the lawyer than if you didn't, right?
MR. RUSSELL: No, because in either
circumstance it would be a factual error. It would be
subject to the bona fide error defense.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, it's a -- it's a
legal -- the lawyer looks at it and says: Well, you
know, the merger is not going to close for whatever, but
I think it's still this bank. And it turns out his
legal analysis of who the creditor is was wrong.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, again, I'm not sure that
that's a legal -- but assuming that it is a legal
mistake --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. RUSSELL: -- I think that the client is
not -- I mean, if it's a legal mistake, it's a legal
mistake for the client as well as the lawyer, and I
think either one of them would be in the same position.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if the client
just says: I'm not going to ask the lawyer; I'm just
going to make -- I think it's A -- it's a bona fide
error, but it's an error -- he gets the benefit of that
position. But if he asks the lawyer, he doesn't get the
benefit.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, under our view, he
wouldn't get benefit under either circumstance, because
it would be a mistake of law and the statute doesn't
cover it.
If I could finish my answer --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Who the -- who the
creditor is is necessarily a mistake of law, rather than
fact?
MR. RUSSELL: No. That's why I -- I
initially told you I thought it was a mistake of fact,
and that would be a mistake of fact for the lawyer or
the client. And I think actually, in that scenario --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, is it a
mistake of fact if the lawyer does legal research to
find it out?
MR. RUSSELL: Well, I don't think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He looks and he
says: Well, it depends upon the date of the closing of
the merger, not the announcement.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, if the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And it turns out
that's a legal mistake.
MR. RUSSELL: Then I -- I don't think the
defense would apply and I don't think it would apply to
the client, either.
But I do think that if you are especially
concerned about applying the law to lawyers and to
litigation, it's much more likely that Congress intended
the Court to deal with that in a tailored way by
interpreting the substantive provisions of the statute
with that particular problem in mind.
Knowing that Congress didn't have litigation
conduct specifically in mind when it enacted this
statute, because at the time lawyers were excluded from
the act altogether, and keeping in mind in addition that
Congress presumably didn't intend the act to
unreasonably interfere with litigation collection
methods, and the constitutional aspects --
JUSTICE BREYER: So how -- how do we do
that? Because you see, you are quite right. The client
runs the same risk in antitrust law in a whole other lot
of areas. Absolutely right. But once you bring the
lawyer into it, the lawyer has what he doesn't have in
an antitrust case under your reading, which is an
incentive to distort the law in order to protect his own
pocketbook. And that is, to me, a big problem.
So you say there is -- there is a -- a way
around that. And what?
MR. RUSSELL: And that is to recognize that,
as this Court held in Heintz, that Congress didn't
intend for every unsuccessful lawsuit to result in
liability under this statute. Plaintiffs have to point
to some particular provision of the statute that was
violated by what the lawyer did in litigation.
And for example, the lawyer makes a mistake
about the statute of limitations. Some courts have held
that that constitutes a violation of the provisions
against deceptive practices or unconscionable collection
practices --
JUSTICE BREYER: The lawyer writes a letter
to the client. The first thing the lawyer tries to do
is to settle the case. "Dear Client: Please send me
the money, and by the way, if you don't owe it, tell me
in writing."
Okay? That's what the lawyer does. That's
a legal activity. It's at the heart of practicing law,
because nobody goes to court anymore. And -- though he
will, if necessary, so he's part of this.
Now, how do we get out of this problem that
I'm putting? I'm really looking for an answer to that,
because I think it's a big problem.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, typically -- I don't
know that that's a uniquely lawyerly activity. Lay debt
collectors do that all the time.
But to the extent you think that Congress
could not have intended that kind of activity to be
subject to liability when somebody makes a reasonable
legal error, I think it's more likely that Congress
intended you to look at what provision of the statute
are they saying was violated and construe that provision
in a way that is consistent with your expectations about
what Congress would have meant, rather than providing --
rather than, you know, taking the bona fide error
provision to do that work, when the bona fide error
provision is much broader and would apply to all kinds
of mistakes of law, including having this consequence of
basically giving debt collectors the opportunity to take
the narrowest possible construction of -- of consumers'
rights, as long as the -- the question is unsettled.
The other reason to think that Congress
wouldn't have intended this to be the solution to that
problem is that at the time they wrote the bona fide
error defense, lawyers weren't included, so this could
not have been Congress' intended solution to that
particular problem.
And at the time Congress used this language,
it was borrowing it from the Truth in Lending Act, where
it had an established meaning in the circuit courts as
not including the mistake of law defense, and that
remained the interpretation of the Fair Debt Collection
Practices Act provision as well, for -- for nearly
25 years.
It wasn't until 2002 that the court of
appeals first suggested that it did not extend to legal
mistakes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, if the district
court were to say: You violated the act; this was a
mistake of law not covered, but I'm not awarding
statutory damages because --
MR. RUSSELL: I think they --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- in this case, just
for the reasons here, you did something the Sixth
Circuit -- or that the circuit law said was permissible,
so you didn't do it -- you did it intentionally because
you did the violation of the act, but it was based on a
mistake of law.
MR. RUSSELL: I do think that that's a
perfectly permissible exercise of discretion. Congress
gave the district court discretion with respect to
statutory damages, and that's another way of dealing
with this problem.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what about
attorneys' fees?
MR. RUSSELL: No, the attorneys' fees is not
discretionary in that sense.
And so there are other structural reasons,
though, to think that Congress knew how to make a
mistake of law defense clearly and did not do so here.
Congress did provide, in effect, a mistake
of law defense to civil penalties. The civil penalties
provision that applies to this statute, which is at
15 U.S.C. 45(m)(1), and that's quoted in relevant part
on page 24 of the blue brief, provides for very serious
civil penalties for somebody who acts with actual
knowledge or knowledge fairly implied that the act was
prohibited.
And I think that provision shows two things.
One, it shows that Congress knows how to make an
express -- how to expressly speak to a defendant's
knowledge of the unlawfulness of his conduct.
And in addition, it shows that Congress
treated knowledge of unlawfulness as an aggravating
circumstance, as something deserving of special
punishment, rather than, as Respondents would have it,
most of the time being a minimum prerequisite for any
liability at all.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Congress wrote this
statute to -- to have a cottage industry of litigation.
These were attorneys --
MR. RUSSELL: Well, I -- I would not say
that. I would say that Congress wrote this statute, in
a way, to encourage private enforcement, to be sure. It
enacted statutory damages and fee shifting because it
understood that this was an industry in which there was
a particular risk of very aggressive and harmful
practices, in part because debt collectors don't rely on
the good will of the consumers they deal with in order
to prosper. And so all of the economic incentives in
the industry push people to aggressive practices, and
Congress wanted this statute to be a counterweight to
that.
And as in many circumstances, Congress
enacts statutory language and puts up requirements and
holds people to them civilly because the -- the general
rule in our legal system is that the risk and the cost
of a legal mistake is generally allocated to the
lawbreaker in the civil context and not to the people's
whose rights have been violated. And there is no reason
to think that Congress was acting particularly
differently here.
We were speaking earlier on about the words
"intentional violation," and I wanted to bring to the
Court's attention the fact that after we filed our
brief, and in fact, last night, we -- we did find a case
in which this Court construed that term, and we notified
Respondents' counsel and the United States. And I just
want to give you the cite so you can look at it. It's
Ellis v. United States, 206 U.S. 246. The relevant
passage is at page 257. It's a 1907 opinion from
Justice Holmes.
And it's consistent with the way that the
Court has construed the phrase "knowing violation" in a
number of contexts, including in -- in the criminal
context, where it's much more common for Congress to
make a mistake of law a defense to liability.
I mentioned before that that kind of history
of the development of the statute -- I think it's also
worth noting, Justice Breyer, that at the time, Congress
withdrew the attorney exemption from the act. It was
the uniform opinion of the courts of appeals at that
time and all the district courts that the language of
the bona fide error defense did not create a mistake of
law defense. And again, Congress had no reason to
expect that in subjecting the attorneys to that
statutory regime, that the bona fide error provision
would be the solution to any special problems.
And Congress has also shown itself to be
attentive to this special area of concern. In 2006, it
made a tailored adjustment to the statute to make clear
that pleadings are not an initial communication
triggering the validation notice requirement. And I
think that demonstrates that Congress is -- is on top of
this issue, and it stands at the ready to make
adjustments that are necessary to make this legal system
operate in a way that both makes sense, but nonetheless
gives effect to their intent to treat attorney debt
collectors on a par with regular debt collectors who are
not attorneys.
I should also mention, Justice Breyer, to
the extent there are some really intractable problems
with respect to the act application to attorneys,
there -- there is ongoing litigation in the lower courts
about the Noerr-Pennington doctrine about how the
constitutional implications of regulating in-court
activity apply to the Court's interpretation of the
statutory provisions.
And again, I think it's more likely that
that is the solution Congress would have intended, an
interpretive solution --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, maybe your colleague
can, but how -- so they define a -- the reasonable error
falls in is because he's a person who regularly collects
or attempts to collect consumer debts owed to a -- you
know, owed to another person. That's pretty broad.
That doesn't come about until '86. You are saying the
bona fide language there is before, in '77?
MR. RUSSELL: Yes. And at the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. But then what --
how -- but I still can't figure out how we get this
thing to work here, and -- and you just came up with a
new idea.
MR. RUSSELL: Well, no. It's -- again, it's
the same idea, that you construe the provisions in a way
that avoid the most troublesome applications of it to
attorney conduct. So I was giving the example of state
statutes of limitations. I think it's very open to
dispute whether attempting to collect a debt on which
the limitations period has run constitutes an unfair or
deceptive practice, because there's not a -- all it does
is gives the -- the debtor the opportunity to raise an
affirmative defense.
And I think -- you know, in that
circumstance, Congress would not have intended the
statute to --
JUSTICE BREYER: So -- I get -- okay.
MR. RUSSELL: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Mr. Jay.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM M. JAY
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE
SUPPORTING PETITIONER
MR. JAY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I would like, if I may, to pick up with a
point that Mr. Russell made, which is that the FDCPA is
of a piece with most civil regulatory statutes, in that
it makes knowledge of the law an aggravating factor and
subjects violators who know that they are violating a
law subject to substantial civil penalties of up to
$16,000 per day. But it doesn't completely excuse
violations based on a lack of knowledge of the law. In
order to be excused, the violation must have resulted
from a bona fide error and meet all three elements of
the bona fide error defense.
We think that two of those elements are not
satisfied by the Respondents' error in this case.
First, legal errors, for the reason Mr.
Russell explained, aren't unintentional. Justice Scalia
asked about whether the phrase "the violation is not
intentional" is a signal in that respect. We think that
the work that that phrase, "the violation was not
intentional," does in this circumstance is to show that
the portion of the debt collector's conduct that
triggers the violation of the statute, it was -- is what
must be unintentional.
Let me illustrate that with an example.
Under the statute, a debt collector who places a call to
a debtor at home after 9:00 at night may well violate
the statute; likely does violate the statute. So what
must be unintentional for that debt collector to make
out the bona fide error defense is not that the
telephone call had been -- had been placed
unintentionally, but rather that the debt collector
didn't have knowledge, for example, because of an error
about what time zone the debtor lives in.
The -- the debt collector didn't know that
the call was being placed after 9:00 at night. That is
an unintentional error, and it is excused under the
statute if the debt collector can also show that it
maintains procedures reasonably adapted to prevent any
such errors.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And your example of that
couldn't happen, because if you were calling debtors,
you should certainly check what time of evening the call
is. So you get over the first problem, but then on the
second problem, the second -- how could that possibly be
careful procedure, if you don't even check to see what
time zone the person is in?
MR. JAY: Well, I think, Justice Ginsburg,
if -- if you check, but due to a keyboarding error, for
example, Arizona is entered as Alabama or an error in
time zone is entered in whatever record is being
consulting by the debt collector, that's the kind of
factual error, a clerical, bookkeeping type error
that -- that Congress had in mind when it created this
defense. And it bears repeating that Congress has
created this -- this defense in identical terms in a
number of other statutes; federal agencies have
construed the identical language in a number of other
statutes. And never has Congress or a federal agency
contemplated that one of these defenses would, in fact,
encompass legal errors.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you know why when
Congress codified that law errors don't count, codified
that for the Truth in Lending Act purposes, it didn't
make the corresponding change in the others?
MR. JAY: We don't have a specific
indication, Justice Ginsburg, why it didn't go back and
revise every other statute that -- that already had such
a defense. But I think that the answer is simply that
Congress was revising the Truth in Lending Act in a
statute called the Truth in Lending Simplification Act,
and the -- the statute in which that was passed didn't
make any other -- any other changes to non-financial
statutes. It didn't reopen the Federal -- Fair Debt
Collection Practice Act in any other way. In fact, the
relevant portion of the FDCPA, Section 1692k, hasn't
been amended in any way since Congress first enacted it
in 1977.
So we think that the relevance of the 1980
amendment to TILA is simply this: It's part of a
consistent pattern by Congress and by the agencies such
as the Department of Housing and Urban Development and
the Federal Reserve Board that interpret statutes with
identical or very similar bona fide error provisions to
say: Errors of law are not what Congress or the agency
had in mind.
JUSTICE ALITO: Even if the -- even if the
error of law is completely reasonable? Let's say in
this case the Sixth Circuit had a case directly on
point. Still, it was just too bad.
MR. JAY: Well, I think, Justice Alito,
that that is not uncommon under any civil statute, that
when a court of appeals has precedent on point, that
there is always a possibility that that precedent will
be reversed.
Now, of course, this statute has a very
short statute of limitations. It's one year. And if
there's some possibility that the law will change down
the road, that short statute of limitations will prevent
most violations from being reconsidered down the road
after the -- after the law is clarified.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It also makes it hard to
use the safe harbor to get the -- to get advice from the
FTC.
MR. JAY: I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg. You
are saying that the statute of limitations makes it
difficult?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That -- that if you
have -- you can -- you are home free if you ask the FTC,
right?
MR. JAY: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's the only --
only way you -- under your reading that you are home
free?
JUSTICE SCALIA: If you ask and they answer.
MR. JAY: If you ask and they answer and
they say that your view of the statute is the correct
one.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How many times have
they answered in the past decade?
MR. JAY: In the past decade,
Mr. Chief Justice, they have been asked seven times for
opinions by the debt collection industry, and they have
answered four of them under the criteria that they
adopted in the regulations they are cited in footnote 10
of our brief.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that's not a very
realistic procedure to rely on, is it?
MR. JAY: Well, the debt collection industry
seems to not have asked very many times, Mr. Chief
Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And why is that?
Because it's a little difficult dealing with the FTC
bureaucracy and getting an answer from them in a
reasonable time?
MR. JAY: I submit, Mr. Chief Justice, that
first, even if this were relevant to what Congress
intended the -- how Congress intended the adviser
opinion process to work when it wrote this provision in
1977, that the debt collection industry, as we pointed
out in our brief -- if you ask the FTC for an adviser
opinion, and it sides against the requester, which,
incidentally, in none of these four opinions has it ever
done -- in each case it sided with the requester -- but
if it sides against, then the requester is on notice of
the law. And the requester is going to be -- as I
mentioned at the outset, the requester is going to be in
the category of -- for heightened penalties, because it
will be very difficult to suggest that you don't know
the law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you are saying
that the debt collection industry doesn't does ask the
FTC, which would be a safe harbor for them, because if
they get a bad answer, they may not follow it and then
they may be subject to heightened penalties?
MR. JAY: Well, I'm saying,
Mr. Chief Justice, that the -- that they would
understandably prefer to ask their own lawyer for an
opinion if the -- if this Court were to agree with the
Respondent's position and affirm the Sixth Circuit.
They would be able to ask their own lawyer, get a
private opinion, and if the opinion is favorable, then
they are home free under the bona fide error defense.
If -- if it's an -- if it's adverse advice,
they may need -- even if they disregard the advice, they
may never need to disclose the opinion at all, whereas
the FTC advisory opinion process clarifies the law for
the benefit of the entire field. Those opinions are
public. They are published and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but there are
four of them. I don't care how public they are. There
are four of them over the past 10 years. It's not a
very reliable or usable effort to clarify the law and
address the problem that the statute presents.
MR. JAY: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, I submit
that you can't look simply at the number of responses
without looking at the number of inquiries. And I am
confident that if this Court, as we urge that it do,
reverses the Sixth Circuit and makes clear that asking
your own lawyer for an opinion is not going to be a safe
harbor defense under Subsection C, that there will be
increased use of the -- of the safe harbor defense that
Congress actually wrote into the statute in Subsection
E.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we know what the time
interval was? You said there were seven requests for
affirmative responses. How long did it take from when
the request was made until the FTC responded?
MR. JAY: In the four that were granted,
three of them took three to four months. The fourth is
an exception, and that -- that's the one cited in the
retail collection attorneys' amicus brief.
That is an exception because the request was
originally submitted as a comment in a pending
rulemaking conducted by the FTC and a number of other
agencies. The FTC agreed to take that comment in the
rulemaking and act on it an advisory opinion under the
FDCPA so that it wouldn't have to wait for the other
agencies to agree with its view, and so that one took
considerably longer. But the average processing time is
three to four months.
And of course the FTC makes a number of
other informal guidance avenues available, if what the
debt collector wants is simply a quick answer and not a
formal safe harbor with the imprimatur of the
Commission. One can -- the Commission staff has
published guidance, and indeed, the Commission staff is
available over the telephone --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And if that's wrong,
it doesn't do you any good.
MR. JAY: If that's wrong, it doesn't confer
the safe harbor. But that's up to the debt collector,
Mr. Chief Justice. If you -- if you want an informal
opinion, you can get one very quickly. If you want the
safe harbor, that requires the imprimatur of the
commissioners, and that takes a bit longer.
We don't think that's at all inconsistent
with what Congress intended, and we do think that
Congress intended that this be the primary avenue. And
if you look at the advisory opinion provision of the
Truth in Lending Act, we think that illustrates it.
At the time Congress enacted the FDCPA, the
Truth in Lending Act advisory opinion provision had only
been on the books for a couple of years, but it had
already filled more than 100 pages of the Code of
Federal Regulations with advisory opinions. And we
think that that's how Congress intended for the law
under this statute to be clarified as well, not in a way
that effectively confers qualified immunity on debt
collectors whenever there is an ambiguity in the law.
We think that that is reinforced as well by
a substantive aspect of the statute, which is that
Congress recognized -- and this is in particular in the
legislative history at page 18 in footnote 9 of our
brief -- that the debt collection industry is extremely
aggressive and looks for loopholes whenever they exist.
So the substantive prohibitions of the
statute, especially 1692d, e, and f, are written in such
a way that they contain broad, substantive prohibitions
that are illustrated by examples, but those examples
expressly are illustrative and not exclusive. Congress
would not have wanted a debt collector to be able to
say: Well, gee, this -- this practice is not expressly
addressed by the statute and has not yet expressly been
addressed by any judicial opinion, and to say: Well,
that law is not clearly established.
We think it's -- may I finish the
sentence Mr. Chief Justice? We think, instead, that
Congress would have recognized that the purpose of this
statute is to protect the unsophisticated debtor, and
that the sophisticated repeat players of the debt
collection industry, if they want to clarify the law,
should go to the FTC.
Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Jay.
Mr. Coakley.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEORGE S. COAKLEY
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. COAKLEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The starting point for discerning
congressional intent is the text of the statute. The
Respondents submit that in a review of the text of this
statute, all of the components may be read plainly to
include the bona fide error defense, to include legal
error, starting with the words that the Court was
discussing with Mr. Russell and Mr. Jay, "violation not
intentional," moving on to "violation resulting from a
bona fide error," then "the maintenance of procedures
reasonably adapted."
The Sixth Circuit and the trial court and --
have construed this statute in a plain-meaning analysis;
that is to say, they start with the plain meaning of
each of those words and construe them in their context.
They did not find an ambiguity. They did not find an
absurdity. They found that each of those -- each of
those components may be squared with a -- with a legal
error analysis.
Petitioner even concedes with respect to the
element of "violation not intentional" that our
interpretation is, quote, "not linguistically
impossible," end quote.
What -- what Petitioner has done is to avoid
the conventional standards of -- of congressional -- I
mean, of statutory interpretation, which is the
plain meaning from Lamie, and moving, then, outward if
necessary. And they have opted instead for looking at
unrelated statutes such as TILA, then going to the safe
harbor, and then pulling the words "violation" and
"intentional" out of the first prong, taking them out of
context, taking them out of order, and then applying
them to this maxim, "ignorance of the law." Even --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And also saying -- and
then this sentence is what I would like to have your
response on, that there is no statute -- Federal statute
that makes mistake of law a defense. So this would be
highly extraordinary, and if that's what Congress meant
to do, to make something that ordinarily is no defense a
defense, we would expect Congress to do so expressly.
MR. COAKLEY: Justice Ginsburg, that is
their argument, that it is unprecedented. But their
unprecedented argument gets them nowhere. That is one
of the panoply of arguments that is outside the plain
meaning that they go to to say well, this is
unprecedented; Congress couldn't have intended this.
There are reports that read the TILA bona
fide error to mean legal error at one point in time, so
it wasn't unprecedented to the extent of that, and what
did Congress do with respect to TILA? In 1980, they
didn't like the interpretation that they were getting
with respect to legal error from the TILA error, which
is a totally different statute, and so they reacted by
amending TILA to say no legal error in TILA.
They did not correspondingly amend the
FDCPA, which shows Congress's intent to distinguish the
two statutes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think before our
Heintz decision, that they intended for debt collectors
to have an automatic defense if they just called up a
lawyer? And so a lawyer's opinion would give them
absolute immunity from liability?
MR. COAKLEY: Absolutely not, Justice
Sotomayor. This --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, I think part of the
difficulty in this case, isn't it, is the -- is our
Heintz decision which made lawyers debt collectors, and
so now we are in this quandary about a lawyer's good
faith. But -- but if we start with what was understood
at the time, do you think that this language was
intended to give debt collectors immunity by simply
calling a lawyer?
MR. COAKLEY: Well -- it was absolutely
meant to protect debt collectors, however, that term was
defined in 1977, which included lay debt collectors. In
1986 it went up a level when we added lawyers, and the
exemption went out and in 1995 it went up another level
when we added litigating lawyers.
But most certainly it went back to 1977 and
included lay debt collectors, and lay debt collectors
didn't get a "get out of jail free" card here by just
pulling up the bona fide error defense and saying I'm
done. They are subject to the three rigors of the bona
fide error defense. They have to prove that the
violation was not intentional -- that the violation --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Call a lawyer.
MR. COAKLEY: Pardon?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Call a lawyer.
MR. COAKLEY: How --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Just have a lawyer sign
off.
MR. COAKLEY: No, but --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Even if the lawyer made
a mistake, if the debt collector relies, you know, I
have a reputable law firm, they are well educated, they
tell me they do legal research, that -- I can assume
that, so why don't I have a "get out of jail" card?
MR. COAKLEY: The unfairness of this
statute, as Justice Breyer indicated in his commentary
with Mr. Russell, is -- is exemplified by your question.
If a lay debt collector calls a lawyer in the 1977 to
1986 round and asks a lawyer for an interpretation of
this act, and he base -- he relies upon that and acts
accordingly, per their interpretation only applying to
clerical error, that lay debt collector who relied upon
advice of counsel is out of luck if the decision goes
against the lay debt collector, because he or she has no
error of law as a defense. So it goes up, the levels of
unfairness go up as the time goes on.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's true of antitrust
defendants, too.
MR. COAKLEY: But in this, Your Honor, there
is a -- there is a bona fide error defense that has been
crafted into this statute.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I see that. Is it --
is it -- what do you think of the idea that your
opponent here has suggested that the way to deal with
the lawyer's problem that I mentioned is simply read the
substantive provisions, so that there is no violation
for ordinary legal activity where they have gone and
asked the FTC or you know, all the things that are
against them? What you would have to do.
That isn't so hard to do as I first thought,
because the words that seem to make -- the primary words
of what is outlawed are the words "unfair or
unconscionable means." Now I -- I doubt -- you would
know -- I doubt that there are other words in the
statute that forbid lawyers from doing anything that
really shouldn't be forbidden. I mean, they shouldn't
call people up in the middle of the night and harass
them and so forth.
But -- but you could read unfair and
unconscionable means to say that where a lawyer is
really hit by surprise, you know, all the circuits were
against him, the FTC wouldn't give him an opinion, that
he no longer is acting unfairly and unconscionably.
What about that?
MR. COAKLEY: Justice Breyer, I don't think
that gives credence to the 1977 focus when lawyers were
not part of the statute. Certainly your example
heightens the unfairness of it once lawyers come in in
1995 through Heintz as a litigating lawyer. Certainly a
lawyer has -- it creates this irreconcilable conflict of
interest that you alluded to in your discussion with Mr.
Russell. That puts the lawyer between the proverbial
rock and a hard place. He either -- he or she either
chooses to follow the law and risk --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's right. I was seeing
a special problem with lawyers. Call -- the unfairness
problem that you are talking about, call that the
antitrust problem, because it is just as much. But I
saw the special problem of putting the lawyer in the
impossible situation that you've just described.
Now it's with respect to that problem that
he offers the cure of reading the words "unconscionable"
and what is it? "Unconscionable and unfair means."
Read those words to exempt the lawyer when he's in the
dilemma I discussed, and therefore the lawyer will not
have an incentive to -- to skew his advice.
MR. COAKLEY: I believe that the lawyer
would be just subject to the rigors of the bona fide
error defense, the way any other debt collector as
defined from 1977 forward would be.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose it would
make interpretation of the act a little more difficult.
The same practice would be unconscionable in -- not
unconscionable in one circumstance, you would have an
opinion saying this is not unconscionable; but yet if
somebody else does it, you know, two weeks later, that
doesn't have the same -- he says, well, look, it's not
unconscionable, but it turns out it is, in his case.
And it would have to be -- the opinion would
have to clarify the law by saying, this is normally
unconscionable but we are going to say it's not here
because of this activity that is unlikely to happen.
MR. COAKLEY: Mr. Chief Justice, I believe
this would be part of the inquiry that a lawyer would be
faced in trying to prove the affirmative defense of bona
fide error in a legal situation, and that -- that would
be part of the good faith analysis, part of the
reasonable procedures that he would present to the
court --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could we do that in the
context of this case? Because we are talking on a
highly abstract level. This is a statute that required
a validation notice, and for the most part the
validation notice that was sent to the debtor is exactly
the words of the statute.
But the lawyer added two words that are not
in this statute, "in writing." Where did that come
from? We are told this was not the model form that was
used by the debt collectors' association.
MR. COAKLEY: There was a case, Graziano,
Your Honor, that talked about the -- was construing the
statute and specifically section 1692g(a)(3) and
determining because g -- the second and third prong of
the statute had the words in writing, does the first
prong in order to be coherently read remain "in
writing"? Graziano says yes, you should put "in writing
in order" to make a coherent --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It says you "should" --
MR. COAKLEY: "Should."
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Rather than "may"?
MR. COAKLEY: No. Well Graziano suggested
"in writing" is the only effective way to construe this
statute; otherwise, it makes no sense.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That issue is still
not settled, is it?
MR. COAKLEY: That's correct, Mr. Chief
Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We still don't know
if the lawyer here was right or wrong.
MR. COAKLEY: That's correct. And that
actually points out a -- the unfairness of this whole
situation. Because my clients, respondents tomorrow
could be sued in the Southern District of Ohio by
somebody for -- because they took the words "in writing"
out of their validation notice. Immediately upon being
sued in this case, they could be sued in the Southern
District of Ohio for not following -- or not following
Graziano, because somebody would conclude that that was
the more effective way -- reading of that statute, and
if they are wrong, then the lawyer has no bona fide
error --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Coakley, one of your
earlier statements confused me. You relied upon the
fact that TILA was amended in 1980 to provide that legal
errors are not covered by the TILA defense, and I think
you -- I think you describe that as -- as changing the
law to -- to provide that -- that legal errors were not
covered.
But as I understood the situation, every
court of appeals to have construed TILA prior to 1980
had held that legal errors were not -- were not
included, as -- as your opponent says, they are not
included here. So the amendment to TILA was just an
affirmation of the judicial interpretation of the
language similar to the language here.
MR. COAKLEY: Justice Scalia, there were
cases, although not court of appeals cases that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Every court of appeals to
construe it had held that mistakes of law were not
covered. Is that accurate or not?
MR. COAKLEY: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then -- then your
prior statement was very misleading.
MR. COAKLEY: Well, to the extent that there
were two different -- two different analyses or
interpretations that had emerged before 1980 that led
the Congress to -- in 1980, enact or to amend TILA,
otherwise, as pointed out in the Herrera case in our
brief, if everything was so settled in 1980, why would
there be a need to clarify the definition of bona fide
error under TILA, and -- and if it was clarified in 1980
under the FDCPA, then why didn't they take the step and
clarify it in the FDCPA from 1980 to 2010, especially
when Congress --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is no basis for
saying that the amendment was overturning -- changing
the prior meaning of TILA. There is no basis for saying
that. All you had were just a few district court
opinions, and all the courts of appeals have come out
the other way.
MR. COAKLEY: Your Honor, the -- the
Petitioner's position was that the case law was uniform
at the time, and our position is the case law was not
uniform at the time. There were cases that had taken an
opposite approach to the court of appeals decision on --
on TILA, and that is what led to Congress reacting in
1980 to specifically exclude legal error from the TILA
defense and has -- Congress has --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why doesn't that just
mean that Congress wants to confirm that the judges --
the majority of judges who -- who had held that it
didn't -- that errors of law were not a defense, that
they were right, it's not changing -- changing anything.
It's just confirming that the majority view is right.
MR. COAKLEY: Well, Justice Ginsburg, the
case law says that the law has to be settled, and as we
pointed out in our brief, it was not settled, and the
courts, afterwards, have reflected that there was no
settlement, and that that's one of the reasons why the
error portion of the TILA bona fide error was -- was
clarified, as the Petitioner puts it, to say this
excludes any interpretations of legal -- of legal -- of
the legal interpretations of TILA.
And then there was no -- whether you call it
a clarification, whether you call it a ratification,
whether you call it an amendment, it doesn't matter,
Congress didn't then similarly amend the FDCPA to be
consistent with their --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, why wouldn't one
say, now, Congress has confirmed that the word in the
Truth and Lending Act means thus and so, Congress has
said that's what those words mean, and then go back to
the other statutes and say the same language was used,
so it means the same thing, the same thing that Congress
has just confirmed?
MR. COAKLEY: Justice Ginsburg, I believe
that the -- the words "bona fide error" in the TILA
statute were being construed, although not by courts of
appeals, to reasonably read the bona fide error
encompasses legal error.
There was a change -- change -- a
clarification, whatever, in 1980, to specifically say,
bona fide error does not include legal interpretations
of TILA, and that was then never clarified, ratified, or
whatever, nothing was done to the FDCPA at that time,
and -- and the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Were there any district
court decisions, of any kind, reading bona fide errors
to mean legal mistakes under any of the other statutes?
MR. COAKLEY: I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The ones that were not
changed, the ones that Justice Ginsburg is -- is
describing.
MR. COAKLEY: Well, under the TILA, there
were -- there were --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under TILA, that's why
Congress may or may not have acted --
MR. COAKLEY: Okay. But --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm talking about under
this statute, under any other statute that uses similar
language.
MR. COAKLEY: Yes --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Were there any district
court cases that were reading those statutes to include
mistakes of law?
MR. COAKLEY: Well, in this case that we are
here on, Judge Gaughan from the U.S. District Court of
the Northern District of Ohio read the -- read that
TILA --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that was after the
TILA amendment?
MR. COAKLEY: That was after the amendment.
Now, you're talking about before 1980?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I was talking about the
time that Congress was look at amending the statutes.
MR. COAKLEY: Under the -- well, the FDCPA
came into effect in 1977, and the -- TILA was in 1968.
You are asking between '68 and '77? The were -- the
Wellmaker case did -- did construe the statute to
include legal error.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that a -- a
mistake of law has to be substantively reasonable in
order to fall within this defense, and if so, where do
you get that? Where do you find that in the statute?
MR. COAKLEY: The statute doesn't refer to
substantively or procedurally, Justice Alito, the
statute refers to bona fide error and the maintenance of
procedures reasonably adapted. As a -- as a -- as
either a lay debt collector or as a lawyer debt
collector, they must establish good faith in attempting
to comply with the law as it existed at the time.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose that a lawyer
spends a whole week researching a question, but arrives
at a conclusion that is plainly incorrect, does not,
therefore, intend to violate the statute and proceeds in
good faith. Would that -- how would that work out?
MR. COAKLEY: Well, in proving --
JUSTICE ALITO: It would be an unreasonable
decision, and yet, would it -- it would fall within your
understanding of this provision; is that correct?
MR. COAKLEY: Absolutely. I mean, he
would -- he would have -- that lawyer would have to meet
the three prongs of the affirmative defense by a
preponderance of the evidence. If he doesn't prove all
of the prongs, he's out. If he proves all of the
prongs, he's in, and if he creates an issue of fact on
one of the three prongs, than he's going back to the
district court for a fact-finding analysis, which turns
out to be the -- you know, this statute has not proved
to be unworkable.
And if I could follow up to Justice Scalia's
and Justice Ginsburg's query about the -- the -- and
Justice Sotomayor's -- about the interpretation of the
words "TILA" versus "FDCPA," I think a review of the
cases of the Seventh and Tenth Circuits is instructive
because the Seventh Circuit was one of the circuits
that, under TILA, had -- had interpreted the word to
mean clerical error only. The Tenth Circuit -- and the
tenth circuit as well.
Now, today, under interpreting the FDCPA
bona fide error, they have abrogated that meaning in
TILA and have come around to this means legal error
under the FDCPA.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Could you answer one
question -- I'm just a little confused about. One
statute has the defense in expressly. The other
doesn't. Is there a difference in the likelihood of
unfairness under the two statutes? Why -- is there a
reason why Congress would have wanted to provide a
mistake of law defense under TILA and not in this --
this -- in this case? Why would it treat them
differently?
MR. COAKLEY: There -- there are
differences -- substantial differences, Justice Stevens,
in the TILA and in the FDCPA statute, starting with the
purposes of the statute, starting with the construction
of the statute, one, TILA has a criminal liability, TILA
has life lines that the debt collector doesn't have in
the FDCPA, TILA dealing -- is dealing with disclosure of
financial information, TILA has regulations, as opposed
to no regulations --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would think all -- which
way do these cut? I mean, the fact that there is
criminal liability under TILA would seem to me to cut in
precisely the opposite direction. You would want to
provide excuses of bona fide errors of law, I would
think. Why -- am I missing something here?
MR. COAKLEY: The -- no, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would think --
MR. COAKLEY: It's a -- it's a distinction
between why -- in trying to answer Justice Stevens'
question, it's a distinction why TILA would be
interpreted differently by the -- than the FDCPA.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the question is -- is
there a greater need for the mistake of law defense
under one statute, rather than the other, I sort of --
MR. COAKLEY: Given --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- have the same problem
Justice Scalia expressed.
MR. COAKLEY: Given -- well, given the
purpose of TILA, and TILA dealing with computational
errors, regulation C, Truth in Lending, they -- they
amend -- they amended TILA -- I mean, I'm sorry.
Originally TILA didn't have a bona fide error and then
they amended it so as to -- before it was enacted -- so
as to cover this area to provide for the computational
error. Because it's so fraught with mathematical errors
and the like.
That is not the situation in the FDCPA. And
that is precisely the reasoning that is the Seventh and
Tenth Circuit have noted, and the case of Frye that we
have cited in our brief has noted, as the distinction
between these two statutes, and why one could be
interpreted this way and the FDCPA could be reasonably
interpreted the other way.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So I mean, you're --
the substance of your answer is that they are just two
very different statutes.
MR. COAKLEY: Absolutely.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I -- but I share
Justice Scalia's concern, I mean the -- the ways in
which they are different would suggest you need the
legal mistake defense more in TILA than you do in the
FDCPA.
MR. COAKLEY: Mr. Chief Justice, I -- I
don't believe that that is consistent with the purpose
of -- of TILA. And certainly lawyers are not -- lawyers
are not creditors under TILA. And -- so that's a
distinction between the -- the two statutes. And
further, the -- there is an administrative penalty under
the FDCPA that -- the $16,000 a day, but the bona fide
error does not apply to that. So there is no
inconsistency between the administrative penalties under
the FDCPA and the civil penalties under the FDCPA.
And in -- and in truth, the -- the statutes
are -- are significantly different.
JUSTICE BREYER: I was wondering if you
know, can you give me just a rough idea, of the
percentage of instances in which people write to the FTC
to take advantage of the safe harbor and the FTC just
says, "Well, we won't tell you."
MR. COAKLEY: I do not have that empirical
evidence, Your Honor. I do know that the briefs are
consistent on this point, and as admitted to by the
Petitioners, there have been four advisory opinions from
the FDCPA -- from the FTC in 30 years.
JUSTICE BREYER: How many have asked?
MR. COAKLEY: I don't know how many have
asked.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, it seems to me
that's the obvious solution to the problem, that --
until you hold they are not -- they are liable for
mistake of law, but anyone can write to the FTC ahead of
time and -- and get a safe harbor.
It's -- so I don't know what we could do to
suggest maybe that mechanism, which is built into the
statute, should be used.
MR. COAKLEY: I think that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Didn't Mr. Jay tell us
there were seven requests? Are you disputing that?
MR. COAKLEY: I am not disputing that,
Justice Ginsburg. What I am basically saying is it
really doesn't make any difference, because the truth
with respect to the FTC and the safe harbor defense and
the FDCPA, that Mr. Jay does not argue that one is
superfluous to the other; the Petitioner argues that one
makes the other superfluous -- neither are superfluous
to the other.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, all right. But I
mean, if there have been seven requests and four answers
then all these horrible things that are going to happen
if you do say there is -- unless you have mistake of law
defense, aren't going to happen. Because all that has
to happen is that people write to the FTC and they get
an answer.
MR. COAKLEY: But the safe harbor defense on
its face applies prospectively. The FDCPA bona fide
error defense --
JUSTICE BREYER: That means lawyer, if you
are worried about this, go write before you do it.
MR. COAKLEY: Yes, but the bona fide error
defense applies retrospectively.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I see I have a copy
in the retail -- Association of Retail Collection
Trades. The first -- second sentence in the FTC's
response is I apologize for the delay in responding to
your request.
MR. COAKLEY: I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It is not an
atypical issue in dealing with government agencies.
MR. COAKLEY: And -- yes, Mr. Chief Justice,
and the penultimate paragraph in there: For the
foregoing reasons your request for advisory opinion does
not satisfy either the prerequisites described, well --
and accordingly we can't -- grant it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Coakley, why do you
need a safe harbor if there is no store? I mean what is
the purpose of -- of having this procedure, however
inefficient it may be, what is the purpose of having it
unless you were going to be liable if you make a mistake
of law?
MR. COAKLEY: The safe harbor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are talking about a
safe harbor rule. Leave the harbor.
MR. COAKLEY: Justice Scalia, as it worked
out the safe harbor is neither safe nor a harbor, but
that's not the perspective that we have to look at it.
We have to look at it from 1997, it was for a
prospective course of conduct that gives the debt
collector categorical --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What does that have to do
-- what does that have to do with anything, whether it's
prospective or not? The point is what benefit does it
give to the person who is asking? If the person is not
going to be liable for a bona fide mistake, why would he
ever use it?
MR. COAKLEY: Well, there are reasons why a
debt collector may use it if he has time and he needs
the prospective letter from the FTC. In -- in reality
debt collector's going to go to the bona fide error
because it's retrospective, although there is risk with
the bona fide error, because it's not the categorical
immunity that the safe harbor gives. And there's --
they're not inconsistent.
The safe harbor is not a --a statutory
interpretation why you should drive a meaning into the
bona fide error provision that is not apparent on its
face.
I would say in closing that Justice Breyer,
your -- your comments earlier are just right. This is
worse -- a reading, the safe harbor, reading the bona
fide error provision to exclude legal error is worse
than unfair.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, now I do see -- which
is why I asked the question, I asked to get an answer,
and the answer now seems to be floating around the FTC
idea. It's -- seven letters, that isn't very much. I
just wonder if the -- if the bar in this area, and their
clients, if they made an effort, might be able to get
the financing for the FTC so they could have enough
people to respond quickly to the letter.
(Laughter.)
MR. COAKLEY: Justice Ginsburg asked the
question about unprecedented. In -- in truth, what
would really be unprecedented here would be for this
Court to construe the bona fide error defense so that a
lawyer or a debt collector who is giving advice to his
client to follow a particular way of action, and the law
was unsettled, for that lawyer to be subject to -- to be
punished for personal liability. And we think that the
bona fide error clearly under Lamie encompasses --
JUSTICE SCALIA: There are severe limits on
the liability, aren't there? Isn't there a thousand --
isn't it a $1,000 limit?
MR. COAKLEY: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not big bucks for an
attorney, is it?
(Laughter.)
MR. COAKLEY: But let that -- well, maybe
for the prior group that was up here, but I don't --
(Laughter.)
MR. COAKLEY: It's big in Cleveland.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This isn't -- this is a
class action, wasn't it? It was brought as a class
action?
MR. COAKLEY: This is definitely a class
action. This is a class action that wants all of the
validation notices that were sent out by this law firm
to -- that included the words "in writing" in it for
that period, and further than that, they wanted the
financial information from the law firm, the financials
because, under the class action provision, it's $500,000
or 1% of the net worth of the firm, which is ever less.
So the request was made of my client, give
me the financials of your law firm, and for some reason,
my client did, but this -- the statute was not meant to
punish lay debt collectors, including lawyers.
The bona fide error defense is the shield,
and we ask the court to affirm the judgment of the Sixth
Circuit Court of Appeals.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:22 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
55:21 addressed 32:19 allocated 19:15 APPEARAN... attentive 20:22
57:16 adjustment altogether 14:9 application 21:5 22:9
35:22 administrative 43:9 44:24 applies 11:2 20:18 21:7,10
47:23 51:12,15 50:10 18:5 53:9,14 30:17
admitted 52:1 amended 26:2 apply 13:23,23 atypical 53:22
advice 7:11 27:3 amendment 34:16 37:13 avenues 31:3
7:12 8:6 adviser 28:13,16 46:18,19 55:20 avoids 10:2
16:21 advisory 29:17 amicus 1:21 areas 14:16 awarding 17:7
17:6,14 30:22 31:20,23 22:24 30:17 argue 52:22 a.m 1:15 3:2
20:13 32:1 52:2 analyses 43:7 argues 52:23
analysis 12:10 argument 1:14 B
25:14,20
30:22 affirm 29:10 33:22 34:3 2:2 3:4,7 5:19 B 11:18,19,22,24
37:12 57:11 40:14 48:5 22:23 33:7 back 10:10
45:3 affirmation announcement 35:1,2 25:17 36:13
22:15 30:12 13:4 15:19 arrives 47:15 bank 11:11 12:9
agencies 25:7 28:9 29:4 31:4 asked 7:4 10:8 base 37:12
26:6 30:21,24 48:21 49:23 23:18 27:22 based 17:14
15:15,22 aggravating 27:24 asking 30:4 basis 43:17,19
21:14 18:16 23:6 answers 53:2 46:25 54:21 bears 25:5
40:9 aggressive 19:4 antitrust 8:11 asks 6:18 12:23 begging 9:16
47:10 Agricultural anymore 15:16 Assistant 1:19 behold 6:20
ahead 52:10 appeals 5:23 assume 37:5 51:8
Alabama 24:25 26:18 42:17,24 attempting 3:17 13:1 29:18
bring 14:16 categorical circumstances 38:22 39:19
5:5,7 bucks 56:13 24:18 36:13 9:14 18:4,4,8 46:9,13,19,23
10:4,7,12 built 52:13 38:24 39:1 19:16 23:5,8 47:7,19,23
12:5 bureaucracy 51:9 26:17 51:16 49:5,20,22
16:7,8 28:9 change 25:15 civilly 19:13 50:4,7 51:1,7
20:16,19 26:23 45:13,13 clarification 51:24 52:5,15
23:12,13 C changed 45:24 44:22 45:14 52:18 53:8,13
26:9 C 2:1 3:1 30:6 changes 25:23 clarified 27:1 53:20,23 54:3
33:15,19 50:9 changing 42:13 32:3 43:13 54:9,12,24
36:16,17 calculated 9:11 43:18 44:10,10 44:18 45:16 55:25 56:12,16
39:20 call 10:7 11:23 check 24:18,21 clarifies 29:17 56:19,23
42:7 11:23 24:1,6 24:24 clarify 29:23 Code 31:25
44:17 24:11,18 36:20 Chief 3:3,9 4:12 33:2 40:7 codified 25:13
36:22 38:14 4:20 9:15 11:6 43:12,15 25:13
48:18 39:8,9 44:21 11:10 12:6,14 class 56:21,21 coherent 41:9
50:11 44:22,23 12:19 13:5,12 56:23,24 57:4 coherently 41:7
53:9,13 called 25:21 13:16,20 22:21 clear 3:23 11:15 colleague 21:19
55:2,4,9 35:19 23:1 27:19,22 20:23 30:4 collect 6:10,13
56:3,8 calling 24:17 28:2,5,7,11 clearly 18:2 11:16 21:22
36:6 29:1,7,20,25 32:21 56:8 22:11
capture 5:8 33:4,5,9 39:23 37:14 48:15 7:13,17 14:11
care 29:21 51:2,7 53:15 client 6:9,22,24 28:4,15 29:2
8:3,12 Carlisle 1:6 3:4 chooses 39:6 9:1 10:6 12:15 33:2 53:16
case 3:4,24 4:16 circuit 9:3 10:19 12:17,19 13:11 collector 6:8
14:13 6:11 7:4 10:20 16:22 17:12,12 13:24 14:14 7:12 11:22
20:12 14:18 15:11 26:14 29:10 15:10,11 56:5 24:1,4,7,10,13
22:2 17:10 19:23 30:4 33:21 57:6,8 25:2 31:4,12
37:8,19 23:15 26:14,14 48:13,15,16 clients 6:9 7:12 32:17 37:3,10
38:22 28:19 35:25 50:18 57:12 8:9 41:24 37:14,16 39:21
51:19 40:5,18 41:2 circuits 6:17 55:21 47:11,12 49:10
53:1,11 42:3 43:10,24 10:10 38:18 close 12:8 54:17,25 56:4
43:25 44:13 48:12,13 closing 11:13 collectors 6:9
28:1,16 49:3 50:18 4:18 5:6 7:10 Coakley 1:23 16:11 19:5
32:10 57:14,15 7:24,25 9:11 2:7 33:6,7,9 21:6,6 32:5
36:1,5,8 confirm 44:7 constitutional course 26:21 D
confirmed 45:2 14:12 21:13 31:2 54:16 D 3:1
57:9 45:7 construction court 1:1,14 damages 17:8
44:11 construe 16:4 6:20 7:18 8:2 date 11:13 13:17
40:24 48:22 47:1 56:3 17:18 19:24 19:6 38:1
48:19 Congress 3:11 construed 5:21 20:6 23:2 dealing 11:4
10:22 14:2,6 20:6 25:8 30:3 33:10,16 49:11,11 50:8
16:2,6,14,18 45:10 42:17,24,25 Dear 15:11
18:21,25 19:9 consulting 25:2 48:5 56:3 7:14,17,17
20:12,17,21 consumers courts 3:21 5:23 15:22 16:11,24
20:8 25:4,5,9,13,20 contain 32:14 15:5 16:22 22:11 23:22
20:24 28:12,13 30:8 25:10 43:21 44:15 25:2,24 27:23
34:22,24 35:5 33:24 34:16 21:14 32:10,17 33:1
34:2 45:2,3,6 46:4 contrary 9:3 17:7 42:12,15 37:3,10,14,16
congressional 34:9 crafted 37:23 47:11,11 49:10
35:15 41:18,22 43:3 creates 39:2 debtor 22:14
3:20 16:10 corresponding creating 9:22 40:21
considerably 35:14 11:15 12:10 decade 27:20,21
11:3 considering 9:9 cottage 18:22 creditors 51:10 deceptive 15:7
18:14 consistent 16:5 counsel 17:5 criminal 20:7 22:13
23:22 20:5 26:6 19:25 22:21 49:9,16 decided 9:4
44:25 51:8 37:15 57:13 criteria 27:24 decision 35:18
20:11 26:7 doing 5:6 38:12 entire 29:18 exactly 40:21
52:20 drive 55:8 error 3:25 4:3 15:4 22:9
49:6 duty 9:8 10:4,7 11:1,20 24:25 38:24
7:5 8:17 10:3,25 35:12 16:2,7,8,17 32:15
43:7,7 50:25 E 20:16,19 21:20 exception 3:13
11:1 12:5 51:4,18 e 2:1 3:1,1 30:9 23:12,13,15 30:16,18
16:17,23 differently 32:13 24:5,8,12,24 exclude 44:4
20:9,16 19:19 49:4,25 earlier 19:20 24:25 25:3,3 55:14
22:15 difficult 5:5 27:7 42:10 55:12 26:9,13 29:13 excluded 14:8
24:5 28:8,24 39:24 economic 19:7 33:15,16,19 excludes 44:19
difficulty 35:25 educated 37:4 34:3 35:7,7,11 exclusive 32:16
30:6,7 dilemma 39:17 effect 6:13 18:3 35:11,13 36:16 excuse 23:9
34:21,23 direction 49:17 21:5 46:24 36:18 37:14,17 excused 23:11
35:19 directly 26:14 effective 41:14 37:22 39:21 24:12
37:17 disagree 10:17 42:6 40:13 42:8 excuses 49:18
39:21 discerning effectively 32:4 43:13 44:4,17 executive 9:8
42:12 33:11 effort 10:9 29:23 44:17 45:9,11 exemplified
47:5,25 disclose 29:16 55:21 45:12,15 47:2 37:9
49:2 disclosure 49:11 either 11:17 47:9 48:15,18 exempt 39:16
51:5 discourse 4:8 12:3,18 13:1 48:19 50:11,14 exemption
53:5,8 discretion 17:17 13:24 39:5,5 51:14 53:10,13 20:13 36:11
56:3 17:18 47:11 54:1 55:2,4,9,14,14 exercise 17:17
discretionary element 4:6 34:5 56:3,8 57:10 exist 32:11
discussion 39:3 emerged 43:8 42:18 44:9 expectations
distinction 31:22 50:12 43:15 expressed 50:6
26:7 51:11 encompass 2:3,5,7 32:16,18,19
district 17:5,18 encourage 19:1 16:22 32:21 21:9 35:8 43:6
42:4 43:20 19:1 evening 24:18 34:22
doctrine 21:12 entered 24:25 evidence 48:1 F
47:9 48:18 30:15 31:1 given 10:18 50:4 54:13,13 55:5
25:10 49:18 50:11 52:2 53:2 50:7,7 55:7,13
42:11 51:13 53:9,13 fourth 30:15 gives 21:5 22:14 hard 27:2 38:7
49:15 54:22 55:2,4,9 fraught 50:14 38:23 54:16 39:5
fiduciary 9:8 Frye 50:18 16:11 22:9 hear 3:3
figure 22:3 10:8 27:4,9 go 6:10 11:17 heart 15:15
fill 11:17,18 29:17 30:13,20 35:4 37:18 28:23 29:5
36:3 57:3 51:21,22 52:3 goes 15:16 37:15 14:24 35:18
47:12,18 financials 57:3,7 52:10,21 53:6 37:17,18 36:1 39:1
26:1 finish 13:4 32:22 48:4 53:3,5 Herrera 43:10
31:22 firm 37:4 56:25 G 54:7,22 55:2 higher 10:5
43:14,15 57:3,5,7 g 3:1 41:5 good 4:4,19 5:9 highly 34:22
45:17 first 7:3 15:10 Gaughan 46:14 8:12 19:6 40:19
48:11,17 17:3 23:16 gee 32:18 31:10 36:2 history 3:25
49:7,11 24:19 26:2 general 1:20 40:14 47:12,18 20:10 32:9
50:16,21 28:12 34:15 19:13 gotten 10:9 hit 38:18
38:7 41:6 generally 8:17 government hold 3:14 10:10
53:9 53:17 19:15 53:22 52:9
26:8 floating 55:18 3:16 granted 30:14 Holmes 20:4
34:20 focus 38:23 GEORGE 1:23 Graziano 41:2,8 home 24:2 27:9
5:5,7 footnote 27:25 Ginsburg 24:16 guidance 31:3,7 49:20 51:25
10:4,7,12 32:9 24:23 25:12,17 56:12
12:5 forbid 38:12 27:2,5,8,12 H horrible 53:3
16:7,8 forbidden 38:13 30:10 34:18,25 happen 24:17 Housing 26:7
20:16,19 foregoing 53:25 40:17 41:10,12 40:9 53:3,5,6 hypothetical 7:2
23:12,13 form 7:19 40:25 44:6,12 45:1,8 happens 8:8 7:21
26:9 formal 31:5 45:24 52:16,19 harass 38:14
33:15,19 formulation 6:3 55:25 56:20 harbor 7:5 27:3 I
36:16,18 forth 38:15 Ginsburg's 48:9 29:3 30:6,7 idea 22:5,7
51:20 indicates 4:1 35:10 37:11,13 12:19 13:5,12 3:7
indication 25:17 39:24 42:21 13:16,20 14:13 keyboarding
19:3,8 27:23 interpretations 17:21 18:21 kind 15:25
32:10 33:2 45:15 21:19 22:2,19 45:20
49:12 57:3 14:4 48:17 27:19,22 28:2 15:22 16:7
20:24 21:18 29:7,20,25 23:7 24:10
36:5 inquiries 30:2 intractable 21:9 32:23 33:4,5,9 30:10 37:3
inquiry 40:11 in-court 21:13 34:18,25 35:17 38:5,11,18
51:21 39:2 36:22,24 37:2 48:6 51:20,25
39:12 47:17 jail 36:15 37:6 42:9,23,25 18:9,14,16
15:25 16:3,15 Jay 1:19 2:5 44:12 45:1,8 knows 18:12
22:17 28:13,13 24:23 25:16 46:3,6,10,17
48:8
intent 3:23 4:1 28:11 29:6,25 48:9,10,21 lack 23:10
45:15 33:12 35:15 33:5,17 52:16 50:1,5,6,23 56:8
47:2 intentional 4:8 52:22 51:2,3,7,19 language 16:20
36:9,14 4:25 5:3,12,14 Judge 46:14 53:1,11,15,21 21:25 25:8
57:1 5:24,24 6:3 judges 44:7,8 53:23 54:3,10 36:4 42:22,22
56:9
20:7 36:19 judicial 32:20 56:13,20 57:1356:15,18
intentionally 42:21 law 3:11,18,22
interest 39:3 3:9 4:12,20 K 1:17 2:3 3:7 8:17 9:2,13,22
55:6 interpret 26:8 7:20,22,23 8:3 keeping 14:9 14:19 15:15
57:9 54:22 man 6:23 misleading 43:5
26:10,13 lawyer's 35:20 life 49:10 mathematical missing 49:19
27:1 36:2 38:2 light 3:20 50:14 mistake 3:18,22
29:17 lay 11:3 15:22 likelihood 48:24 matter 1:13 4:18 8:3,17
32:2,5 36:9,14,14 limit 56:11 44:23 57:16 9:13,18,22
33:2 37:10,14,16 limitations 15:5 maxim 34:17 12:13,16,17
37:4 47:11 57:9 22:10,12 26:22 maximize 9:9 13:2,6,9,10,13
39:6 Leave 54:11 26:24 27:6 McNellie 1:6 3:5 13:21 15:4
42:14 led 43:8 44:3 limits 56:9 mean 4:16 5:4 16:23 17:7,15
legal 3:15,16 4:8 lines 49:10 5:15,16 9:16 18:2,3 19:15
4:10 6:14,16 linguistically 11:25 12:16 20:9,16 34:21
47:4,13 6:18,19 9:18 34:6 34:10 35:7 37:3 47:4 49:2
50:2 10:14 12:7,10 litigating 7:21 38:13 44:7 50:2 51:5
53:4 12:12,12,16,16 36:12 39:1 45:4,21 47:23 52:10 53:4
56:5,25 13:13,21 15:15 litigation 7:16 48:15 49:15 54:7,22
16:2 17:3 7:19 10:24 50:10,23 51:3 mistakes 3:15
23:16 25:11 18:22 21:11 meaning 6:25 17:4 43:1
40:13 42:11,14 lo 6:19 55:8 model 40:25
10:4 42:18 44:4,19 long 16:13 30:12 means 4:21 money 9:1 15:12
44:19,20 45:12 longer 30:25 38:10,17 39:15 months 11:14
45:15,21 47:2 31:16 38:20 45:3,6 48:19 30:15 31:1
12:2,7 48:19 51:5 look 10:8 16:3 53:11 moving 33:18
55:14 20:1 30:1 meant 4:21,22 34:11
14:17 legislative 32:9 31:20 40:4 16:6 34:22
15:3,4,9 Lending 16:21 46:22 54:14,15 36:8 57:8 N
29:8 25:14,20,21 looking 15:19 mechanism N 2:1,1 3:1
30:5 31:21,23 45:3 30:2 34:12 52:13 name 11:8,15
36:6,20 50:9 looks 6:15 12:7 meet 23:12 narrowest 16:12
37:2 letter 6:13 10:9 13:16 32:11 47:24 nearly 16:25
38:17 15:9 55:1,23 loopholes 32:11 mention 6:2 necessarily 9:22
letters 55:19 lot 7:14 14:15 21:8 13:6
40:11 let's 11:10,19 lower 21:11 mentioned necessary 15:17
41:21 26:13 LPA 1:7 20:10 28:22 21:3 34:12
47:11,14 level 36:10,11 luck 37:15 38:2 need 29:15,16
53:11 40:19 merged 11:13 43:12 50:2
levels 37:17 M merger 11:14 51:4 54:4
9:4,6 18:20 20:9 maintains 24:14 middle 38:14 52:24 54:13
16:17 35:21 49:9,16 maintenance Migrant 5:25 net 57:5
56:7,10 33:19 47:9 mind 14:5,7,9 never 6:22 8:9
liable 3:15 6:21 majority 44:8 25:4 26:11 25:9 29:16
51:9,9 8:1 52:9 54:7 44:11 minimum 18:19 45:16
38:14 52:2 32:8 56:5 plain 33:23 prerequisite
42:19 10:24 19:18 plainly 3:23 prerequisites
opposed 6:23 pattern 26:6 Plaintiffs 15:1 presents 29:24
40:20,21 opted 34:12 51:15,16 please 3:10 6:10 26:24
oral 1:13 2:2 3:7 penalty 51:12 15:11 23:2 prevents 3:19
25:7,8 47:5 19:13 38:14 15:1 23:4 private 19:1
31:2 ordinarily 34:23 51:21 53:6 26:15,18 33:11 29:12
46:15 43:18 17:12,17 9:7 12:1,18,23 problematic
15:14 owed 21:22,23 24:22 54:21,21 possibility 26:19 problems 20:20
46:5 personal 56:7 26:23 21:9
P 3:1 54:14 16:12 47:8
28:14,17 paragraph Petitioners 52:2 15:7,8 16:25 proceeds 47:17
53:24 Petitioner's 19:5,8 process 28:14
30:5,22 Pardon 36:21 43:24 practicing 15:15 29:17
part 6:6 15:17 phrase 5:22 20:6 precedent 26:18 processing
35:20 18:6 19:5 26:5 23:18,20 26:19 30:25
40:2,6 35:24 38:24 pick 23:3 precisely 49:17 profits 9:9
40:11,14,14,20 piece 23:5 50:17 prohibited
50:8 51:8 54:5 45:20 46:11 28:12 responding
purposes 25:14 ready 21:2 relied 37:14 response 34:20
push 19:8 reality 55:1 relies 37:3,12 responses 30:1
55:1 41:8 15:19 21:9 remain 41:7 result 10:2
39:4 44:18 56:2 rendered 4:9 resulted 23:11
32:25 p.m 57:15 20:17 23:16 repeating 25:5 53:16,16
49:1 57:7 reports 35:6 retrospective
48:1 query 48:9 40:15 47:4 53:19,25 57:6 reversed 26:20
49:1 50:1 55:17 reasoning 50:17 required 40:19 revising 25:20
50:13 56:1 reasons 17:11 requirement right 4:14 5:1
15:2 16:3,4 quote 34:6,7 32:24 research 13:13 53:1 55:12
18:5 quoted 18:6 reconsidered 37:5 rights 16:13
20:19 26:25 researching 19:17
31:20,23 R record 25:1 47:15 rigors 36:17
55:9,14 R 3:1 refer 5:21 47:7 Reserve 26:8 39:20
raise 22:14 refers 47:9 respect 10:4 Rini 1:6 3:5
15:6 ratification regime 20:19 23:19 34:4 19:14 39:6
22:7 44:22 regular 21:6 35:9,11 39:13 55:3
38:3 ratified 45:16 regularly 21:21 52:21 road 26:24,25
read 3:21 4:16 regulations 30:13 11:6,10 12:6
35:6 38:2,16 49:12,13 1:24 2:8 5:19 13:12,16,20
10:17,18,19 relevant 18:6 Respondent's 39:23 41:16,20
27:13
51:2 12:7,20 13:17 9:9 sort 9:15 50:3 25:22 26:17,21
57:13 40:4 41:8,10 shield 57:10 Sotomayor 17:5 26:22,24 27:6
27:15 42:9,23 shown 20:21 46:3,6,10,17 34:20 35:12
49:14,21 50:6 18:15 35:15 Sotomayor's 38:24 40:19,22
4:17 51:3 sign 36:24 speak 18:13 47:1,6,7,9,17
7:1,9,18scenario 13:11 signal 23:19 speaking 19:20 48:6,23 49:7,8
8:8,14,16 Seasonal 5:25 significantly special 18:17 49:9 50:3
9:6,20 second 10:18 51:18 20:20,22 39:8 52:14 57:8
11:9 24:20,20 41:5 similar 26:9 39:11 statutes 22:10
53:17 42:22 46:7 specific 4:22 23:5 25:7,9,24
section 26:1 similarly 44:24 25:16 26:8 34:13
15:21 41:4 Simplification specifically 7:6 35:16 45:5,21
see 4:14 14:14 25:21 14:7 41:4 44:4 46:11,22 48:25
22:1,6 24:21 37:24 simply 4:9 7:11 45:14 50:20,25 51:11
23:4,17 53:15 55:16 7:15 9:21,22 spends 47:15 51:17
37:9 seeing 39:7 9:24 10:6 squared 34:2 statutory 5:22
send 4:21 15:11 25:19 26:5 staff 31:6,7 17:8,19 19:2
sensible 10:1 situation 39:12 start 33:23 36:3 step 43:14
30:5,7 sentence 32:23 42:16 50:16 33:16 49:7,8 49:6,23 50:1,5
34:19 53:17 Sixth 10:19 state 22:9 store 54:4
51:22 separate 5:2 17:11 26:14 statement 43:5 strictly 3:15
53:8 serious 18:7 29:10 30:4 statements structural 17:25
serve 4:22 33:21 57:11 42:10 structure 3:24
55:5,7 settle 15:11 skew 39:18 States 1:1,14,21 subject 12:5
settled 41:17 sold 11:11 19:25 20:2 16:1 23:8 29:5
27:6 53:2 55:19 somebody 4:18 14:4,8 15:1,2,5 submit 28:11
34:18 Seventh 48:12 16:1 18:8 40:3 16:3 18:5,22 29:25 33:13
40:2,7 48:13 50:17 42:1,5 18:25 19:9 submitted 30:19
52:19 severe 56:9 sophisticated 20:11,23 22:18 57:14,16
11:24 shareholders sorry 27:5 50:10 24:13 25:18,21 30:8
tell 6:12 9:1 30:15,15 31:1 truth 16:21 uniform 20:14
51:23 52:16 48:4 31:21,23 45:3 unintentional
tenth 48:12,15 TILA 26:5 50:9 51:17 4:9 5:14 23:17
term 5:24 6:5 35:11,13,13 trying 11:16 unintentionally
terribly 9:7 44:3,4,17,20 12:9 13:20 United 1:1,14,21
52:13 33:12,13 46:16,18,24 two 10:10 11:14 22:24
41:13 33:4,5 57:13 49:2,7,9,9,11 35:16 40:3,23 18:14,16
things 11:7 51:5,9,10 type 25:3 56:2
53:3 14:8 15:23 47:20
47:14 5:1,2,7,10,18 20:12,15 24:9 Ulrich 1:7 3:5 14:11
10:16,21,21 31:22 35:7 unconscionable 56:6
12:18,21 13:11 43:25 44:1 39:14,15,25 32:25
16:14 17:9,16 54:25 38:20 unworkable
20:11 21:1,16 28:5 7:2 Urban 26:7
23:14 today 48:17 understandably urge 30:3
32:2,6,22,23 top 21:1 47:22 uses 46:7
43:14 37:25 38:22 Trades 53:17 19:3 36:3 U.S 20:2 46:14
42:12,13 47:3 traditional 4:25 42:16 U.S.C 18:6
40:18 third 41:5 triggering 20:25 unfairly 38:20 40:20,21 42:2
thought 13:9 triggers 23:23 unfairness 3:17 56:25
38:7 troublesome 9:24 37:7,18 venture 9:10
12:25 42:6 43:22 wrestling 5:11 18 32:9
30:24 49:15 50:21,22 write 6:13 51:21 1907 20:3
56:5 52:10 53:6,12 1968 46:24
47:17 Wednesday writing 15:13 36:9,13 37:10
17:6 week 47:15 41:14 42:1 46:24
weeks 40:3 57:1 1980 26:4 35:9
went 36:10,11 wrong 12:1,10 43:9,11,13,15
weren't 6:4 42:7 46:20
16:17 wrote 6:4 16:16 1986 36:10
6:3 15:6 we're 5:11 7:2 18:21,25 28:14 37:11
19:21 WILLIAM 1:19 30:8 1995 36:11 39:1
23:11,18 2:5 22:23 1997 54:15
33:17 wisdoms 3:16 X
34:5,14 withdrew 20:13 x 1:2,9 2
38:3 wonder 55:20 2002 17:2
51:19 year 26:22 2010 1:11 43:15
24 18:7
33:16,24
38:8,8,9
33:2 38:11 39:14,16 $
40:22,23 41:6 3
49:1 48:11 57:1 51:13 33 2:8
work 4:14 5:2,5 $500,000 57:4
4
28:14 0
08-1200 1:5 3:4
worked 54:12 6
56:21 worried 53:12 1% 57:5
worrying 6:7 100 31:25 77 21:25 46:25
15:12 worse 8:24 12:1 11:21 1:15 3:2
17:19 55:13,14 12:22 57:15 8
20:5 21:4 worth 20:12 13 1:11 86 21:24
25:25 57:5 15 18:6
27:13 wouldn't 13:1 1692d 32:13 9
