IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JEFFREY K. SKILLING, :
Petitioner : No. 08-1394
v. :
UNITED STATES :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, March 1, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 30
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 58
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:00 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear
argument next today in Case 08-1394, Skilling v. United
States.
Mr. Srinivasan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
The dramatic collapse of Enron had profound
reverberations experienced throughout the Houston
economy and citizenry. Countless individuals in the
Houston area were affected, as the court of appeals
explicitly recognized, so much so that 60 percent of the
jury venire affirmatively acknowledged in the responses
to questionnaires that they would be unable to set aside
their deep-seated biases or doubted their ability to do
so, or that they were angry about Enron's collapse, an
anger that was manifested in the vitriolic terms in
which Petitioner Jeff Skilling was referred to
repeatedly both in the questionnaires and in the
community more generally.
The passions about this case were so intense
and the connections to Enron ran so deep that the entire
United States Attorney's Office, all 150 or so
attorneys, recused themselves from the investigation
that culminated in this prosecution.
In those conditions, the court of appeals
was correct in unanimously concluding that this was one
of the very rare cases in which, because of the degree
of passion and prejudice in the community, the process
of voir dire cannot be relied upon to adequately ferret
out and identify unduly biased jurors. And --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What do we take from
trial counsel at the end of the voir dire process
announcing that if he had had extra preemptory
challenges, he would have used them only against 6 of the
12 people that were finally selected? If that's all he
would have ejected, why couldn't a fair jury have been
found?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, Your Honor, to be
clear even one juror who should have been excluded and
wasn't would have been enough, but --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's a different --
that's a different question.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are taking a broader
proposition and saying that the presumption could not
under any set of circumstances be overcome, and that's
what I'm trying to probe.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, Justice Sotomayor.
The reason that trial counsel objected to six specific
jurors at the juncture that Your Honor's referring to
is that that corresponded to six cause objections that had
been, in our view, erroneously denied. Now, that in no way
suggests that we were satisfied with the remainder of
the jury. We had made an objection --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. There was
only one juror that had been challenged for cause
against -- for which a preemptory challenge wasn't used.
I thought that every other for-cause challenge ended up
being excused on the basis of a preemptory challenge.
MR. SRINIVASAN: That's right, and that's
what I was trying to say, Your Honor, that the reason
why trial counsel identified six specific jurors was
that there were six other jurors who would have been on
the venire as to whom we had applied -- as to whom we had
asserted a cause challenge that was denied, and because
of that we had to use a preemptory to strike those
jurors, which left us without --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that means that
there were six that were okay.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, no. There were
six as -- there were six remaining as to which we didn't
have a corresponding for-cause objection that had been
denied. But in no way indicates that we were satisfied
with the other six.
From the very outset, we complained about
this process. We said at the outset before trial that
no juror could be seated in this case because the
process of voir dire couldn't adequately be relied upon
in these conditions.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me what in the
process itself, outside of your general proposition that
no process could find fair jurors? What else in the
process was deficient?
MR. SRINIVASAN: The process was deficient
in a couple of respects, Your Honor: First, with respect
to time and scope. The voir dire that the trial judge
conducted was essentially an ordinary voir dire for
ordinary circumstances. He announced before the fact
that the voir dire would be conducted in a period of 1
day, and we objected to that.
He also announced that he would have limited
questioning and that counsel would have very limited
opportunity to follow up with additional questions. We
also objected clearly and repeatedly to that. And that
was manifested in the voir dire that occurred, because
what the trial judge did is made two fundamental, we
think, mistakes in the way he conducted the voir dire.
One occurs with respect to those jurors as
to whom they had laid bare their biases, and another
occurs with respect to those jurors as to whom they
didn't affirmatively acknowledge their biases, but,
given the conditions that prevailed in the community,
they might well have had biases that they didn't
affirmatively acknowledge.
Now, with respect to the first, the mistake
that, in our view, the trial judge made was to accept a
simple assurance of fairness in the face of overt statements
of bias and in conditions that confronted this community,
where there was deep-seated community prejudice and animus
that permeated the Houston -- that permeated the city of
Houston, that kind of acceptance of a simple assurance of
fairness in the face of repeated overt statements of bias
shouldn't be countenanced.
And we think what the trial court should
have done in that situation is to move to an additional
juror. But instead of doing that, the trial court
interviewed 46 jurors, nearly 8 more than the minimum
that was necessary to constitute a jury in this case.
And just to give this a frame of reference, the entire voir
dire process in this case took 5 hours, and the trial
judge interviewed each juror for approximately 4 and a half
minutes.
By way of comparison --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he did -- he did give
time for counsel to ask additional questions, trial
counsel.
MR. SRINIVASAN: He -- he did.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He asked both sides if
they had additional questions.
MR. SRINIVASAN: He gave some time, Justice
Ginsburg, but he made clear before the voir dire began
that that opportunity was going to be limited both in
time and scope. With respect to scope -- and this is at
page 11805 of the record -- what he said was that
follow-up questioning would be permitted if it was
reasonable and if it was related to the purposes for
which the juror was brought before the bench.
And just to paint the picture a little bit,
the -- the potential jurors were brought before the bench,
and they were left standing, which I think reinforced the
conception that this was going to be a rather quick affair
and it was not going to allow the kind of extensive,
meaningful follow-up that we thought was required.
And to give it a frame of reference, in the
Oklahoma City bombing case, the prosecution of Timothy
McVeigh, that proceeding was transferred from the city
of Oklahoma City to Denver, but even after the transfer,
the trial judge conducted an 18-day voir dire with an
average of 1 hour of interviews per juror; 18 days and
1 hour as compared with 5 hours and 4 and a half minutes.
And we think the Oklahoma City experience is much more
befitting of the kind of voir dire that's necessary in
circumstances of community prejudice and passion of the
kind that existed here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You made a change of
venue motion at the outset, right?
MR. SRINIVASAN: We did. We --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And I'm unaware of any
case in which we have said a change is mandatory when
what's involved is money rather than life or limb. Life
or limb obviously was involved in the McVeigh case.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure, it was, Your Honor,
and by no means would we in any way diminish the -- the
profound human tragedy that accompanied the Oklahoma
City case, but I think the reality of the sentiment on
the ground in Houston was that Houston citizens, as we
pointed out in our brief, in fact referred to the -- to
what happened in the wake of the collapse of Enron in
terms that were similar to the way they referred to
terrorist attacks. They -- they in fact talked about it
in terms of the 9/11 attack.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what was remarkable
about some of those questionnaires, there were a lot of
people didn't read the newspapers. There were a lot of
people who indicated they really didn't know anything
about this case.
MR. SRINIVASAN: That's true,
Justice Ginsburg, but I'd like to clarify one aspect
of that, if I could, and that's that our argument is not
-- and it hasn't been at any point in this proceeding --
that pretrial publicity caused the passion and prejudice
in the community. This is -- is very much a case
in which pretrial publicity was a symptom rather than the
cause.
Now, pretrial publicity, to be sure, stoked
the passions that -- that already lay within the
community, but really this was a case in which the
passions existed regardless of pretrial publicity. And
I think the juror questionnaires and the surveys and all
the other evidence that we put before the district
court manifests that. If you look at the juror
questionnaires -- and they are -- there are several examples
of situations in which particular jurors said that they
were unaware of any of the pretrial publicity, they did
not watch the news, they didn't read the newspapers,
they hadn't seen the movies about Enron, but yet they
still said they had feelings about Jeff Skilling and Ken
Lay.
Juror 63, a person who wound up on the
panel, is a good example of that. She answered "no" to
all the questions concerning her exposure to pretrial
publicity, but then when she was asked whether she had
views about the guilt or innocence of Jeff Skilling, she
said yes, she did; and she elaborated on that by
explaining that I think he probably knew he was breaking
the law. So this is a person who, notwithstanding a
lack of exposure to pretrial publicity --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there was some
follow-up to that.
MR. SRINIVASAN: There -- there was a bit of
follow-up to that, Your Honor, but I think the nature of the
follow-up is -- is quite illuminating on what we think are
some of the fatal flaws in this voir dire process. The
follow-up --
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you really think that
if -- if there had been a much more lengthy voir dire
and if the trial judge had been more willing to -- to
grant motions to dismiss for cause, that it would have
-- that it would not have been possible to find a fair
and impartial jury in the district?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, our first --
certainly, there should have been a more intensive voir
dire, Justice Alito. Now, our first order of submission
is that the proceedings should have been transferred,
not necessarily because there don't in fact exist or
there didn't in fact exist 12 unbiased jurors in the
city of Houston.
Our point is a different one, and that is
that in conditions where you have the level of passion
and prejudice that permeated the Houston community,
there's too great a risk that the process of voir dire
and particularly the ordinary process of voir dire
wouldn't be successful in identifying those 12 people.
That's the danger.
And the other problem with the argument that
the government makes with respect to the fact that there
are 4 and a half million citizens in Houston, which I think
is part of Your Honor's question, is that that would mean
more if the trial judge had gone deeper into the jury
pool than the mere 46 jurors he did interview. Because
when he interviewed those 46 and stopped at that point,
what we were left with was a jury panel as to which
there was too great a danger of bias, too great a danger
that they would bring their biases to bear with them in
adjudicating Petitioner's guilt.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, rule 21 says that the
judge must grant a transfer if the judge is satisfied
that a prejudice against -- that so great a prejudice
against the defendant exists in the transferring
district that the defendant cannot obtain a fair and
impartial trial there.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, doesn't that suggest
that if you could find a fair and impartial jury with an
adequate voir dire, then the transfer need not be
granted?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think it has to be
read against the context of whether we can be confident
that you can find that fair and impartial jury. I think in
any -- I think we would say that in any community in
which there is 4 and a half million people, there may,
in fact, be 12 individuals who aren't so biased that they
can't sit. The real danger, though, is that the ordinary
process of voir dire, as this Court's decisions
repeatedly recognize, in Mu'Min, in Patton, and Murphy
and others, the ordinary process of voir dire in that
situation can't be trusted to identify those people.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because you think --
MR. SRINIVASAN: And that's the danger here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- they're going to lie,
right?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because you think
they're going to lie?
MR. SRINIVASAN: No, that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When they fill out
the form and say this is what I've heard, and this -- I
can fairly evaluate the law and the arguments?
MR. SRINIVASAN: No, no. No,
Mr. Chief Justice. With respect, that's not -- that's
not the only danger. I mean, that's -- that's part of
it, but I think there's -- there's other ones that we
would put forward before that one.
There's two in particular: First, in a
community like Houston, in the state of the -- the
passion and prejudice that existed in Houston at the
time of this trial, there's a real concern that jurors
will not feel fully free to return to that community
delivering anything other than the conviction for which
the -- the community desires. And that, I think, is an
important concern that this Court's decisions identify.
And the other one, and this is in Murphy in
particular, where there's a substantial share of the
community that's impassioned and prejudiced, as this one
was, there's a concern that even jurors who don't lay
bare -- who don't affirmatively acknowledge their
biases -- are unwittingly subject to the same biases
that permeate the community. And that sort of danger is
-- is the reason that in these situations, we think
transfer is required.
But even if transfer wasn't required, what
needed to happen was a more extensive and intensive voir
dire than happened here. The voir dire was deficient --
and Justice Ginsburg, this gets back to your question
about juror 63. The voir dire was deficient in at least
this respect. In conditions like those that permeated
Houston, we think it's error to accept the assurance of
fairness of a juror who has already laid bare their
biases.
Now, juror 63, for example, she said she
thinks she knew that Jeff Skilling -- she thinks that
Jeff Skilling knew he was breaking the law. This is
someone as to whom we ought to be very concerned. In
our view, that person shouldn't get --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was there a challenge for
cause against her?
MR. SRINIVASAN: There -- there wasn't a
specific challenge for cause against her, Your Honor,
but -- but again, we challenged everybody on the basis
that voir dire wouldn't adequately ferret out biases in
this case. And then we did challenge -- as Justice
Sotomayor's question about the six specific challenges
that we lodged at the close of the voir dire, but before the
jurors were sworn -- juror 63 was one of those jurors.
And so I think it was evident that juror 63
was not at all somebody who we were satisfied with. And
the reason is, if you look at the nature of -- at the
voir dire colloquy with her, the trial court asked her
about that statement and asked her: You remember
making this statement? Do you still feel that way? And
her response was: I don't know.
And then she acknowledged: I have no further
information to bring to bear on that question than I did
then. And at that point, she has only fortified the
bias that she brought with her, but the trial court was
unsatisfied, and he continued to press. And then he asked
her at some point: Can you apply the presumption of
innocence? And she said yes. And then that was it.
But in our view, a -- a search for a --
-- what I think can fairly be described as a rote
assurance of fairness can't be sufficient, given the
very evident danger that someone like juror 63, who has
already laid bare her biases, would bring her biases
with her to the panel when she adjudicated Petitioner's
guilt or innocence.
JUSTICE BREYER: How do you say we -- in
your opinion, if we agreed with your basic idea -- if,
which is totally hypothetical.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: If we agreed with that, how
would we sketch the lines? That is, when does the
jury -- does the judge have to do more than is ordinary,
and what counts as more than ordinary? I mean, I --
what I have fear of, to put it out for you, is that jury
selection can go on a very long time.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And judges have to -- have
to run their trials. And if we tell the judges that
they have got to do more, that will become exaggerated,
and they'll administer it in a way that will make it
hard to select juries.
That's the harm I'm worried about. So I'm
asking you, how would you sketch a line that prevents
that harm?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Breyer, it is by
nature a contextual inquiry. The standard that this
Court has articulated to identify the circumstances in
which this sort of extra -- I think -- precaution is
necessary is that there has to be, a quote, "wave of
public passion," close quote, and that's the language
that the Court has used in a number of its decisions.
Now, that may --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: See, the problem with --
MR. SRINIVASAN: I'm sorry. Go ahead,
Justice Sotomayor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. Finish Justice Breyer --
MR. SRINIVASAN: I -- I -- anticipating what
you might feel, which is that that language may not be
self-evident as to the circumstances in which a deeper
inquiry is --
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't ask you -- I just
asked you to do your best.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, and that --
JUSTICE BREYER: So we've got the wave of
public passion --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Wave --
JUSTICE BREYER: And what about the second
half?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Wave of public passion, and
I guess the substrata that I would put beneath that,
especially for this category of cases, is pervasive
animus directed towards the defendant as responsible for
a harm felt by the entire community.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, what's the
second half? The second half, which I'm really worried
about, is that we get into the business of running the
trial court's trials. So I want to know what it is that
the trial court at that stage, in your opinion, other
than transfer, has to do?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I think what the trial
court has to do is two things, Your Honor: First, for a
juror who has laid bare his or her biases, that juror
should not be allowed on the panel, and an assurance of
fairness from that sort of juror isn't enough. At the
very least, Your Honor, on this category -- and then I'll
go to my second point -- in a situation in which a
juror has laid bare his or her biases, we think that
juror shouldn't be seated.
But if you're going to entertain the
thought of seating that person, at the very least this has to
happen: They have to be forced to confront their assurance
of fairness as against the many statements of bias that
they may have uttered.
JUSTICE BREYER: What happens if -- I gather --
that a -- that a trial judge has a panel in front of him and
people say, yes, I think he is guilty? And -- and the
trial judge says, now, if you listen to the presumption,
can you be fair? You look him in the eye, and if he says,
yes, I can put this aside, trial judges do accept those
jurors.
Now, if that is the practice, and others
would know more than me, then our -- our -- I'm
worried about changing that ordinary practice.
MR. SRINIVASAN: To be clear, Justice Breyer,
that ordinary practice would only be altered in the very
rare category of cases that involve a wave of public
passion. And -- and they would be altered in the
following respect: That if somebody had laid bare their
biases, the -- in our view, what should happen is that
you should move to the next juror.
But even if you didn't do that, at least the
following should happen, Justice Breyer, and that is
that when somebody utters an assurance of fairness, that
itself shouldn't be enough when the community is
permeated with the sorts of biases that attended this
proceeding. The jurors should at least be forced to
reconcile their previous statements of bias with their
utterance of fairness.
The other point I would make is this: That
the danger that this Court has identified in conditions
like those that pervaded the Houston community is that
even with prospective jurors who don't affirmatively
acknowledge their biases, there's a danger that they
may have biases they haven't brought to the fore. And
we think what can't happen is what the trial judge did
in this case, which is to refuse to question any of the
jurors on the basis of any response they gave in the
questionnaire, other than responses that raised a red
flag.
And we think if you curtail the inquiry in
that regard, it doesn't allow for the sort of voir dire
that's necessary to in order to be --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I look at --
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- in order to ferret out
biases that may be latent.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any place in
the record I could look to see questions that you would
have posed absent the judge's limitations?
MR. SRINIVASAN: There are, Justice
Sotomayor. There's at R 12036, I think, is an --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Repeat that.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I sorry. R 12036 is an
important document, which is our renewed motion for
change of venue and related relief. And that was after
the questionnaire responses had been received.
And the point we made in that document is
that as a consequence of the questionnaire responses, we
already knew that a great deal of bias permeated the
venire. And we proposed not only that the proceedings
should be transferred, but also that a different
sort of voir dire should be conducted than the one that
the trial court envisioned. And we laid out in that
motion the sorts of things that we thought should be
done.
And we did that in other places as well,
Your Honor, but I think that would be a good place to
look. But --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, can I --
perhaps it's time for you to shift gears, if I could --
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- and move to
the statutory question.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't understand
why it's difficult. The statute prohibits "scheme to
deprive another of the intangible right of honest
services." Skilling owed the Enron shareholders honest
services. He acted dishonestly in a way that harmed
them. But I don't understand the difficulty.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, I
think part of the problem with that sort of rendition is
that that -- I think nobody suggests that any dishonest
conduct falls within the compass of this law, that no
pre-McNally case suggests that. And I think the
government doesn't takes that position, either.
If it did --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, there has to
be -- there has to be a right to honesty. In other
words, it's not just in the abstract. And the
shareholders had a right to his honest services.
MR. SRINIVASAN: But I don't think that
you've advanced the ball, with all due respect, that much
by saying there has a right to honest services, because I
think what -- at the end of the day, what that would mean
is that any situation in which there's a fiduciary duty
or even if there's not a fiduciary duty, but at least
any situation in which there is a fiduciary duty, a
nondisclosure of deception would give rise to a
Federal felony prosecution.
And that has never been the understanding
under pre-McNally case law, and that shouldn't be the
understanding now, because its sweep is breathtaking, and
it's not something that we would ordinarily construe
Congress to have intended.
Now, I think in -- in this case, there's
several objections we have to the application of the
honest services fraud statute to this case. We think
the statute is unconstitutionally vague. We think it's
particularly vague as applies to -- as applied to anything
beyond the narrow category of bribes and kickbacks.
But I think in some ways the most
straightforward way to understand why the honest
services fraud statute can't be applied validly in this
case is to appreciate what I think is an evolution in
the government's theory. And -- and at the time of
Weyhrauch -- and this is at page 48 of the government's
brief in Weyhrauch, just a few months ago. The government
said that the honest services fraud statute, quote,
"Nor does it cover an official whose interest is public
knowledge."
So, at that point, I think we -- we would have
believed that the honest services fraud statute can't be
applied to Jeff Skilling, because his interest, as the
government acknowledges, was public knowledge.
But the position that the government has
taken now is that even though his interest was
disclosed, he didn't disclose that he was acting in
pursuit of that interest at the expense of the
employer's interests, which I read to be contrary to the
position that they took in the Weyhrauch case and, I
think, which is problematic in two respects.
First, there is no pre-McNally
understanding, none, that a disclosed interest can give
rise to honest services liability. And, second, and
maybe more importantly --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. A
disclosed interest?
MR. SRINIVASAN: A disclosed interest, where
the interest is disclosed. All the cases dealt with
situations in which the interest is undisclosed, as the
government suggested would be the case in the Weyhrauch
brief.
But -- but perhaps even more importantly,
there is no pre-McNally understanding to the effect
that acting in pursuit of an interest in compensation
can give rise to honest services liability. And, in
fact, in a post-McNally case, the Thompson case
out of the -- out of the Seventh Circuit, Judge
Easterbrook, we think, explained persuasively why
pursuit of an interest in personal compensation
shouldn't afford the gravamen of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And I thought part of
the government's theory was not --
MR. SRINIVASAN: -- an honest services
prosecution.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- wasn't limited to the
compensation. It was essentially Skilling owned shares,
and he had information that those shares were inflated.
Shareholders owned shares. They didn't have that
information. Skilling then sold those shares at a great
profit to himself. And the shareholders were left
without that information. And then when the stock
price plummeted, they all lost out.
I thought that the government was not
limiting the -- its position to the compensation, but was
also dealing with the share price.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I think, Justice Ginsburg,
the government's theory on how the honest services fraud
statute applies in this case is laid out at page 49
and 50. And the interest that the government identifies
that was furthered by Petitioner Skilling's action is
his interest in compensation. That's -- that's how the
government, I think, describes it.
And the -- it's true, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What 49 and 50? Of the
government's brief?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Of the government's brief.
And it's true, Your Honor, that the
deception that they identify has to do with securities
fraud. And I'll bracket for the moment that we think
that the honest services fraud theory that was put
before the jury is not at all commensurate with the one
that's being asserted now.
But even if you take as a given that it's
the theory now, the elements of honest services fraud
under the government's theory are that the individual
would act in pursuit of his interest in his own
compensation at the expense of the employer's interests
in acquiring better information with which to make an
informed decision.
And one of the fundamental problems we see
with that approach is that it would threaten to convert
almost any lie in the workplace into an honest services
fraud prosecution for the following --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I -- I just don't
-- because I'm looking at page 50. I thought this
discussion goes from 50 to 52, and that the part on 52
certainly homes in on the share -- the shares.
MR. SRINIVASAN: It -- it does, Your Honor,
but the interest at issue -- and I'm reading from page
50. This is in the middle of the first full paragraph
on page 50. The government says, "That constitute" --
"That conduct constituted fraud." The only question here is
whether the public nature of petitioner's compensation
scheme prevents his conduct from constituting honest
services fraud."
And then they go on: "Although the" --
"Although petitioner's basic compensation scheme was
public, his scheme to artificially inflate the
company's stock price by misrepresenting its financial
condition, in order to derive additional personal
benefits" -- i.e., his compensation -- "at the expense of
shareholders, was not" disclosed.
So I think the theory of application here is
that because he was acting allegedly --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why -- why do you put in
the "i.e."? Additional personal benefits could be both.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Because the stock is the
compensation, Your Honor. There's -- there's no -- I
think, in this sort of situation, there's not a
disaggregation between the stock and the compensation.
The stock was intimately tied to his compensation, and
the personal benefit that, I think, was being received
was that compensation interest.
I mean, the government can clarify that, but
that's my understanding of the government's view.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think we'll ask the
government to do that.
MR. SRINIVASAN: And the danger with that theory
is that it would have the capacity to convert almost any
workplace lie into a Federal felony, for the following
reason: That, in a variety of situations, an employee
might -- might engage in an act of deception to his
employer with respect to a work-related matter. For
example, suppose that there is an employer policy that
says you can only use workplace computers for business
purposes, and when asked, the employee says that he is
only using it for business purposes, but he is in fact
using it for personal reasons. Well, at that point he
will have made a deception to the employer. Arguably,
it would be material, particularly given that it acts in
the face of an employer policy, and it arguably was made
in furtherance of the employer's personal interest in
maximizing his compensation at the expense of the -- at
the expense of the employer's interests in having better
information with which to make an informed decision
about the employee's future.
So for that reason as well, we think that
the application of the honest services fraud --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What you've just
explained is why you think the statute is very broad.
You haven't explained why it's vague.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, there are two
different arguments, Your Honor. Our threshold
submission is the statute is unconstitutionally vague,
and we believe that it's particularly vague as applied
to a category that extends beyond bribes and kickbacks.
And I haven't been through those arguments, but they're
-- they're spelled out in our briefs.
Now, with respect to the remaining category,
which is undisclosed self-dealing, even that category we
think is a problem in and of itself. But it's
particularly problematic when it's applied to the realm
of compensation for the reasons that I have outlined.
If the Court has no further questions, I'd
like to reserve the balance of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Dreeben.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
When Judge Lake approached this case with
the question of how to select a jury, he had 15 years of
experience in selecting juries, and he informed the
parties that it was his experience that voir dire
conducted by the trial judge is more effective at
eliciting the potential biases of a juror than the
oftentimes tendentious voir dire that's conducted by
the parties.
He did not ignore the fact that the Enron
collapse had a significant impact on the Houston
community. He worked with the parties to develop a 14-
page questionnaire, which I encourage the Court to look
at, if the Court has not already done so. It's
extraordinarily detailed. It has more than 70 questions
designed to ferret out any possible connections between
the individual jurors and the Enron collapse. It asked
for their views about the Enron collapse. It asked for
whether --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you tell me of any
other high-profile case comparable to this in which the
voir dire lasted only 5 hours?
MR. DREEBEN: Judge -- Justice Sotomayor,
I'm not familiar with the length of voir dire in
particular cases. But I think that there is no --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you aware of any
that's been reported where the selection was 5 hours
only?
MR. DREEBEN: No, I'm not aware of any,
but I don't think that there is any problem with this
voir dire, and I think there is really --
JUSTICE BREYER: There's no problem? I went
through the 200 pages, and I counted -- this is only my
own subjective recounting of it, but I counted six of
whom only one lasted, but I counted five others that
they had to use peremptories on that include one juror,
29, who herself was a victim of this offense to the tune
of $50,000 or $60,000. The judge said: I will not
challenge her for cause.
I counted another, juror -- what's this one
-- juror number -- number's 74, who when he looked her
square in the eye and said, "Can you be fair?" She said,
"I can't say yes for sure. No."
Okay? So, in my own subjective account, there
were five here, maybe six, certainly three, that perhaps
if they'd had an appeal on peremptories, which
apparently they don't, they might have said these should
have been challenged for cause. So I'm concerned about
the 5 hours, about the lack of excusal for cause, about
the very, very brief questions that he provided to
people who had said on the questionnaire they could
be -- they could be biased. They said we think he's
guilty, for example.
And all those are cause for concern. At the
same time, I'm worried about controlling too much a
trial judge. I've expressed those concerns. I know
this is a special case. Half, almost, of the jury
questionnaires they just threw out. And the
community -- you know all the arguments there. You see
what's worrying me. And I'm worried about a fair trial
in this instance and to say -- and I'm genuinely worried,
and -- and I'd like to hear your response to the kind of
thing I'm bringing up.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Breyer, I think
that there was a fair trial in this case, and I think
that a full reading of the voir dire reveals that
individuals sitting from this vantage point with a cold
record who were not there may have different viewpoints
about --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'd never heard of an
instance where a trial judge would not challenge for
cause -- but I'm not saying it doesn't happen -- where the
juror herself is a victim of the offense to the tune of
$50,000 to $60,000. See, we are getting into an area that
I'm not familiar with, but I think that that's not
supposed to be.
MR. DREEBEN: I don't think that there's
any per se disqualification. But even if there was,
that juror did not sit, and this Court held in
United States v. Martinez-Salazar that one of the
purposes of peremptories is to protect against the
occasional accidental error.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How -- but is it
occasional or accidental? I think that's what Justice
Breyer is getting at. With such a truncated voir dire
and one in which the judge basically said to the lawyers,
I'm not giving you much leeway at all, how can we be
satisfied that there was a fair and impartial jury picked
when the judge doesn't follow up on a witness who says,
I'm a victim of this fraud? I don't know -- I would find
it strange that we would permit jurors who are victims of
the crime to serve as jurors.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, none sat in this case.
I don't think there is any claim that they did.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but -- but the judge
didn't strike her for cause. So isn't that symptomatic
of not following through adequately?
MR. DREEBEN: I don't think that a -- what
this Court may perceive as an error in the denial of one
for-cause challenge --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, but it's not just one.
There were like five, of which I have given you the
worst, and they had to use up all their peremptories.
And they can't appeal this. And it's that taken
together, plus the one who sat, juror 11, provides, as
they point out for the reasons they say, some cause for
concern. And that's what I'm trying to get at.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Breyer, I think
that reading the entire voir dire reflects that the
judge was interested in determining whether these jurors
were qualified to sit. He was not interested in having
the voir dire used as a lobbying or a argumentative
exercise by the lawyers. And as a result, he relied on
the very extensive questionnaires to pinpoint the
examples of areas in which further questioning was
necessary. And then he went and he, I think, did fairly
allow sufficient inquiry into whether these jurors could
sit. And I think one of the best examples of that is
actually juror number 63, who Petitioner says was not
properly voir-dired. And I think what juror number 63
illustrates -- and this is in the Joint Appendix at page
935a and then following -- is that, as this Court has
remarked many times, the question of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Excuse me. What was the
page? Nine --
MR. DREEBEN: 935a. This is in volume 2 of
the Joint Appendix.
JUSTICE BREYER: Go ahead with it, but they
didn't challenge 63 for cause, so I guess they waived
it.
MR. DREEBEN: They did not challenge 63 for
cause, but they -- but they came to this Court today and
tried to use 63 as an object lesson of what was wrong
with the voir dire. I actually think juror 63
illustrates not only what was right with the voir dire,
but the immense distortion that Petitioners have
attempted to perpetrate by putting together effectively
a highlight reel of every bad headline in every Houston
publication and claiming that the entire jurisdiction,
all 4.5 million people virtually, were infected with
some sort of a pervasive prejudice that could not be
ferreted out in voir dire.
If you look at what happened in juror number
63, she happens to be a 24-year-old who comes to court.
She filled out a questionnaire that she said: I can be
impartial. She did have the statement: I -- I think that
probably Skilling is guilty of some crime. When the
voir dire proceeds, it turns out that she's not one of
these jurors who has been in the Houston culture
pervasively exposed to what Petitioner says is
prejudicial publicity. She was living in Austin at the
time, going to school.
Then she's asked, "Are you watching major
networks?" And she says, "No, I don't really watch the
news at all. I'm a turtle person."
"Do you recall anything that may have --
you've seen -- that you may have seen or heard on
television about this case?" "No."
And then the judge, after some more questioning
about her that reveals that, among other things, Ken Lay
is a member of the country club that her parents belong
to, he asks her about the very question that Petitioners
focus on as problematic: "Do you have any opinion about
the guilt or innocence -- and you say, I think they probably
were breaking the law?"
And her answer is: "I don't know. The only
thing I can say is, anything I've ever heard even
peripherally has not been, you know -- but that's what
people say and, I mean, it's hard to know. People don't
know what they are talking about."
And the judge says, "Well, I'm just trying
to find out what you think." She says, "I don't have an
opinion either way."
JUSTICE BREYER: Let's try juror number --
let's try 76: Judge: "Here's the detail that really
concerns me. You said, 'I think they're all guilty.'"
"Right."
"Now, there's nothing wrong with thinking
that, if that's what you really think. You just need to
tell us that."
"Okay."
"That's what you think, isn't it?"
"It's been a long time since I answered that
questionnaire."
"Right. Now, as you" --
Okay? Now, that's -- that, as far as I could tell,
is as close as I can get to a recantation of what she
thought originally.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Breyer, this
Court has recognized -- and it has recognized this as
long ago as Chief Justice Marshall in the Burr case --
that people come to court with opinions in highly
publicized cases. We expect our jurors to be somewhat
informed of civic affairs. They receive information
through the media or through their friends, and they have
light opinions. And they come to court, and the trial
judge instructs them: This is a legal proceeding; you're
going to hear evidence in court. What happened
outside of the courtroom no longer matters. What
matters is what has been presented in here. I'm going
to instruct you that defendants have a presumption of
innocence. Can you follow that?
And then the judge is the only person on the
scene. We're not there, the court of appeals is not
there; the judge is the only person on the scene to
judge the jurors' inflection, the jurors' demeanor, the
jurors' apprehension of the seriousness of the duty.
And this Court has held that the standard for review of
a determination of no removable bias for cause is
manifest error.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Were -- were these
colloquies that are reported, the -- the pages we have
just been reviewing, heard by the entire jury pool?
MR. DREEBEN: They were not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or were they just -- where
the person -- the juror was standing in front of the bench
for this?
MR. DREEBEN: That's correct, Justice
Kennedy. This was not a case like Mu'Min, where in your
concurrence -- your dissent, you pointed out that the
colloquy occurred in the full presence of the -- of
every other juror, and there was no individualized voir
dire. Here there was individualized voir dire. Judge
Lake had that juror right in front of him, eyeball to
eyeball, and was able to make the kind of credibility
assessment, taking into account all of the context, that
no other judge can do.
And it's not to say that there's no judicial
review of that on appeal. In the Irvin case, Irvin v.
Dowd, which is really the Court's first case in this
line, the Court noticed that there -- 90 percent of the
jurors had an opinion that the defendant was guilty. It
involved a highly sensationalized murder in rural
counties in southern Indiana. There was a barrage of
pretrial publicity. Eight of the 12 jurors said they had
an opinion that the defendant was guilty.
The Court, after meticulously reviewing the
voir dire, concluded that the judge had committed
manifest error in accepting the representations of the
jurors that they could be impartial. But this is
nothing like that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's hard for me to think
that the voir dire would have been much shorter even if
there had been no showing of pervasive prejudice.
MR. DREEBEN: I think that what Judge --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Five hours sounds to me
about standard for a case of this difficulty.
MR. DREEBEN: I -- I think that's not
necessarily correct at all, and it would not have been
the case that in a normal trial there would have been as
detailed a 14-page questionnaire as there was in this
case, that was designed to elicit any and all
connections to Enron.
Now, whether there may have been some
individualized mistakes along the way, whether some of
us would have preferred that the voir dire be more
extensive, is not the issue; and unless this Court is
prepared to set standards that are based either on a
stopwatch or some sort of, you know, notion of how many
days voir dire has to occur, it's going to be very
difficult to administer a standard that says this was
too little.
The Oklahoma City bombing case, it is true,
took many, many days, but that was a capital case, and I
know that this Court is well familiar that there are
numerous --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It took many
days after it had been transferred.
MR. DREEBEN: It did, and Denver itself was
exposed, probably almost as much as Oklahoma City, to
the pretrial publicity, and a terrorist act of that
magnitude, Mr. Chief Justice, really strikes at the
heart of the entire nation. Judge Matsch, who sits in
Denver --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It was very -- the
atmosphere in Oklahoma City was very different from that
anywhere else, in terms of the impact of the bombing on
that particular community.
MR. DREEBEN: Agreed. It was 168 deaths.
Many of them were children. There was a sense of -- of
victimization in the part of the community that I don't
think is comparable to what happened with a financial
meltdown in Houston, a 4.5 million city with a robust
economy and a trial that took place 4 years later,
after numerous other Enron trials had already taken
place in Houston, resulting in favorable verdicts for
defendants, mistrials, acquittals of one defendant.
This very trial itself of Mr. Skilling
resulted in nine acquittals on insider trading counts.
Now, if you would think that the jury had some sort of
a substratum of subterranean bias that was ineradicable by
the conventional techniques of voir dire that we have been
using for 200 years, then insider trading where the
defendant pockets personally, as a result of the
exploitation of insider information -- you would think
that would be the first place the jurors would go to vent --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, no, no. No.
They'd go to the statute that says honest services --
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. It seems --
it seems -- I'm being flip. It seems that that's where
you would focus your attention, if you think your community
has essentially been fleeced by somebody because of his
dishonesty.
MR. DREEBEN: I don't think so,
Mr. Chief Justice, because the honest services component
actually, and the component of this trial, was really a
subset of the securities fraud. The essential gravamen
of Petitioner's crimes were lying to Enron, lying to its
shareholders about the health of the company in a
financial sense, when, in fact, he knew that he had been
engaging in numerous manipulations of earnings and
schemes that are detailed in the briefs, in order to
avoid Enron having to recognize that portions of its
business were imploding.
And the victimization was of shareholders.
That was expressed through securities fraud; it was
expressed through insider trading. There were counts
involving liars -- lying to auditors, and one object of a
multi-count conspiracy charge involved an honest services
object as well as a money or property fraud object, and
as well as a securities fraud object.
Now, in our view Petitioner has essentially
conceded that the honest services statute is not vague
as applied and, therefore, facially unconstitutional. He
all but acknowledges that bribes and kickbacks, which
constitute the bulk of pre-McNally honest services
cases, can be defined with precision. There is not an
unconstitutional vagueness in it. And so I think at a
minimum --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, a concession that a
bribe or a kickback scheme statute would not be vague is
hardly a concession that this statute as written is not
vague. In fact, I thought that was the point. The
point is that the Court shouldn't rewrite the statute;
that's for the Congress to do.
MR. DREEBEN: I don't think that in this
case, Justice Kennedy, the Court needs to rewrite the
statute so much as to recognize that what happened in
McNally was this Court said that the mail fraud statute
has two clauses, scheme to defraud and scheme for
obtaining money or property by false representations and
pretenses. The government's position, in accordance with
all of the lower courts, was that these two clauses set
forth two separate crimes. Scheme to defraud was not
limited to money or property. This Court disagreed, and
it said, oh, yes, it was.
And what Congress did in responding was to
invoke words that had appeared in this Court's decision
in McNally, in the dissent written by Justice Stevens,
in the lower court opinions, and intentionally -- as
this Court put it in Cleveland v. United States -- cover
one of the intangible rights that the lower courts had recognized
before McNally, and that was the right to -- intangible
right of honest services. And in the context of the
pre-McNally honest services cases, that was well known
to include at its core the bribery and kickback cases
and, in the additional category, nondisclosure of a
personal, conflicting, substantial interest.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, suppose you have a
statute that -- that makes it criminal to -- to do any
bad thing, okay? Now it's clear that murder would be
covered. All right? Nobody would say that murder is
not covered by that. Does -- does that make the statute
non-vague?
MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Scalia, but --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, just because you can
pick something that everybody would agree comes within a
denial of honest services, doesn't -- doesn't mean that
when you say nothing but honest services, you're saying
something that -- that has sufficient content to -- to
support a criminal prosecution.
MR. DREEBEN: But this is not like a
statute, Justice Scalia, that says prohibiting any bad
thing. It's a statute that responded to a decision of
this Court in which a term of art, the intangible
right of honest services, featured prominently. And
Congress has --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And there were cases that
-- that -- some of which included bribery, but others of
which included a variety of -- of other actions, some of
which were allowed by some courts and some of which
were disallowed by some courts. There was no solid
content to what McNally covered.
MR. DREEBEN: I think that there was a solid
enough content for this Court to be able to respond to
the McNally decision by giving shape to the crime in
accordance with the paradigm cases that the lower courts
had done and logical implications of those cases, just
as if it had concluded, in accordance with Justice
Stevens's dissent, that the statute did protect
intangible rights in the phrase "scheme to defraud."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if -- if you're
going to say that the statute refers to a term of art,
the whole point of a term of art is that it's a shorthand
for defining something. And then -- but if you're
saying that it's a term of art that means the
pre-McNally case law over the -- you know, all the
different circuits and the district courts and that some
knowledge of that, it -- it's descriptive of
something, but it's not a term of art.
MR. DREEBEN: I think it's a term of art in
the sense that it referred to a -- a body of law that
until quite recently, when defendants began making
vagueness arguments, was understood to refer to the kinds
of schemes that had been prosecuted before this Court
held that "scheme to defraud" was limited to money or
property. And it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I'm with you
there. But then the kinds of cases -- that's where it
gets fuzzy. I mean, you need lawyers and research
before you get an idea of what the pre-McNally state of
law was with respect to intangible -- the right to
intangible services, of honest services. And I'm just
wondering how clear does what that body of law is have
to be before you can say, you know what, when we tell
you that right, you know that that's what it's referring
to?
MR. DREEBEN: I think it's clear enough at
the core, this Court can say so and can provide
definition, and it can use its standard tools of
interpretation of criminal statutes to dispose of cases
that are at the periphery and ensure that there is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It kind of -- it
puts the prospective defendant, I guess, in an awfully
difficult position, though, if he has got to wait.
There's this common law evolution over time. You have
two cases the government wins, one it loses, three --
and he's supposed to keep track of that. That doesn't
sound like fair notice of what's criminal.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, I
don't think it puts a defendant in a very bad position
at all, because this statute is only triggered when
there's an intent to deceive, an intentional fraudulent
act taken to deprive the victim of whatever right exists
in question.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was -- Mr. Dreeben,
what was the jury told when this honest services count
was given to the jury? What was -- what were they told
was the definition --
MR. DREEBEN: Well, the jury instruction,
Justice Ginsburg, appears on page 1086a of the Joint
Appendix. That's in volume 3 of the Joint Appendix.
And I will describe the jury instruction, too, but I
want to say at the outset that this jury instruction was
drafted against the background of Fifth Circuit law,
which I think did take a somewhat broader view of the
honest services crime than the government has taken in
this Court, and it has to be read against that
background.
But the -- the instruction said that "to show
that defendants deprived Enron and its shareholders of
their right of honest services, the government must prove
beyond a reasonable doubt that, in rendering some
particular service or services, the defendant knew that
his actions were not in the best interests of Enron and
its shareholders or that he consciously contemplated or
intended such actions, and that Enron and its
shareholders suffered a detriment from the defendant's
breach of his duty to render honest services."
So -- and this was against a background --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's circular, isn't
it?
MR. DREEBEN: The -- I would agree,
Justice Scalia. I've read this phrase many times, and
it does seem a little circular to me.
The introduction to this jury instruction says,
"Honest services are the services required by the defendant's
fiduciary duty to Enron and its shareholders under State law."
So this was tried in a circuit that followed the State law
principle that's at issue in the Weyhrauch case. The
government defined the fiduciary duty in that way.
But the essence of the fraud was that -- that Petitioner
had a fiduciary duty to the shareholders of Enron to act
in their best interests, and he betrayed that by acting
contrary to the best interests of the shareholders,
fraudulently upholding the price, and ultimately that
constituted the crime.
Now, I think there's a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that covers the
case that your friend put of the employee using the
computer for personal use? That fits under this
instruction?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, whether the employee had
a fiduciary duty in that respect would be, I think, quite
a litigable question. This case doesn't involve any
subtle or arcane fiduciary duty. This is one of the
basic fiduciary duties that any chief executive has, not
to lie to shareholders about the financial condition of
the company.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sorry. The duty of an
employee to provide honest services to his employer --
that's not included because the employee is not a
fiduciary?
MR. DREEBEN: Not all employees are
fiduciaries, no, Justice Scalia. I mean, most
fiduciaries have a sort of heightened duty towards
the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where do you get the
fiduciary limitation?
MR. DREEBEN: I think that it's inherent
in that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: All it says is "honest
services." I would think that --
MR. DREEBEN: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- any employee has the
obligation to provide honest services.
MR. DREEBEN: I think, Justice Scalia, that
you cannot successfully attempt to understand Congress's
reaction to this Court's decision in McNally without
some cognizance of the McNally decision and the
preexisting law.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What authority do I look
to, to see that some employees are fiduciaries and
others are not?
MR. DREEBEN: That would be a standard
agency law principle, Justice Kennedy, and --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If I look in the
Restatement of Agency, and they have a section that
applies to fiduciaries and non-fiduciaries, both of whom
are employees?
MR. DREEBEN: Normally, Justice Kennedy, no
such complexities are necessary, and I think that this
Court can resolve this case without introducing such
complexities, because the core duties of loyalty that
have formed the core of the honest services prosecutions
are universal. They are equally applicable to agency.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I would assume that any
employee, even at the lowest level of the corporate
structure, who has corporate property, a car or something,
has a duty to protect that car for the employer.
MR. DREEBEN: But that's not an honest
services case. The honest services cases are about
conflicting interests and the misuse of official
position.
I'm not even sure, in the personal computer
use case, that the government could successfully show
that the employee had misused his official position.
This case is quite typical in that respect. Petitioner
absolutely misused his official position to serve what
we say was his private interest in private gain.
JUSTICE ALITO: Were there any pre-McNally
cases that involved a situation like this, where the
benefit to the employee was in the form of the
employee's disclosed compensation?
MR. DREEBEN: There were not to my
knowledge, Justice Alito, and I would frankly
acknowledge that this case is a logical extension of the
basic principle that we have urged the Court to adopt in
the nondisclosure cases. And the Court can evaluate
whether it believes that that is legitimately within the
scope of an honest services violation or not. But it
should not obscure our fundamental submission, which is
that there was a definable category of undisclosed
conflict of interest cases, that a person furthered
through his official actions that constituted
honest services fraud. A good example of that is United
States v. Keane, which was a Seventh Circuit decision.
Petitioner, in his reply brief, claims that
Keane involved financial injury to Chicago as a result
of an alderman's concealment of his interest in
properties that the City was selling. Actually there
were three separate schemes in Keane. In one of them,
the court was quite clear that, even though the alderman
got the same deal that every member of the public would
have gotten, it still was honest services fraud because
he did not disclose his financial interest in that
property to the council when the council was voting on
it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I -- the following
hypothetical: I'm a councilperson in a jurisdiction
that's considering a tax increase or a tax break, and I
vote for the tax break, and I happen to have property
that qualifies. Is that a breach of the statute?
MR. DREEBEN: It may well be, Justice
Sotomayor. It depends, I think, on whether the tax break
was something that basically all general members of the
public were in a position to benefit from, which may
well be the case if it's just a private residence,
versus if it's a particularized business property
interest that you have either acquired --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Please tell me what I
look to, to discern -- if I'm a councilperson, to discern
what needs to be disclosed or not disclosed?
MR. DREEBEN: I think in the first instance,
you will inevitably, as a councilperson, turn to your
local law. And I think this brings up an important point
that was discussed in the Weyhrauch decision, which is
that the mail fraud statute does not criminalize
breaches of duty without more. There has to be a
showing of scienter, of a mens rea element of intent to
deceive. And unless the government can point to
something which shows that the individual knew that they had
a duty to disclose and did not do that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So could --
MR. DREEBEN: -- or -- if I could just
finish this part of the answer -- or can point to
circumvention-type activity, using of shell companies to
conceal an interest, then the government is not going to
be able to have an indictable case on honest services
fraud. And I think what --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't give me a
whole lot of comfort, I mean, just because there's an
intent to deceive. An intent to deceive can be the basis
for -- for terminating a contract. There's -- there's
been fraud in the inducement or something of that sort.
So I know I'm liable to have the contract terminated, and
maybe for damages for the contract. And you say: And also,
by the way, you know, you can go to jail for a number of
years, because, oh, yes, it's very vague, but you
intended to deceive, and that's all -- that's all you need
to know.
MR. DREEBEN: But this Court has recognized
in numerous cases, Justice Scalia, that a mens rea
element requiring an intent to deceive, an intent to
violate the law, is exactly what helps prevent statutes
that might otherwise be considered too vague from
falling --
JUSTICE BREYER: You can -- well, you focus
on what you just put together. You said intent to deceive,
intent to violate the law. I believe in another case,
you're saying they don't have to have an intent to violate
the law because there was no State law that prohibited
whatever was at issue.
So is the government now saying -- which is a
big difference -- that you cannot convict somebody unless
they know, i.e., they intend to violate a law that
forbids the conduct in which they are engaging, other
than this honest services law, or are you not saying
that?
MR. DREEBEN: I'm not saying that,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: You're not saying that.
MR. DREEBEN: I'm saying that in the
ordinary case --
JUSTICE BREYER: Then if you're not saying
that, what the person has to carry around with them
is an agency treatise.
(Laughter.)
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think that what
happens, Justice Breyer, is that unless the government
does have some sort of legal platform like that to show
that there was knowledge of a duty, it's not possible
for the government to bring its proof to the court and
establish that the individual acted with the requisite
mens rea, unless there is activity that reveals an
intent to circumvent the law and to withhold the
information, as in Justice Sotomayor's example,
information about a property interest that might well
affect the deliberations of the council. And that kind
of evidence often requires use of offshore accounts --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I mean, of course they
intend to -- it's not the case that is obvious; it's the
case that is not obvious that worries me, and --
MR. DREEBEN: I don't see any of those --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- in the case that
is not obvious, of course they intend to withhold
information. I agree with that. But the problem is
they don't know it's unlawful to do so.
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, I think if you
look at the cases in which this has happened, there is --
there's not like a deliberation on somebody's part -- oh, do
I have to disclose or not disclose? What these cases are,
are really outright criminal conduct in the form of
conflicting interests that every fiduciary knows you
need to disclose this before you take official action to
further that interest. That --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dreeben, would you
clarify the issue that came up: Is the government's
theory focused simply on the compensation or does it
involve the sale of shares?
MR. DREEBEN: It involves the sale of shares
as well. That was part of the compensation, and it's
linked to it. But, Justice Ginsburg, if you look at the
government's opening statement in this case, the
government opened by saying, "You will see that
defendants Lay and Skilling knew few -- a few key facts
about the true condition of Enron, facts that the investing
public did not know. With that information, defendants
Lay and Skilling sold tens of millions of dollars of
their own Enron stock."
And then continued: "When an investor buys a
share of stock, an investor buys some rights in a
publicly traded company. When an investor buys a share
of stock, they buy the right to hear and receive truth
from the chief executive officer. And, importantly, they
buy the right to have their interests placed ahead of
the chief executor officer every day of the week."
So there was, baked into this case at the
outset, the notion that these officials were not acting
in the best interests of the shareholders. They were
furthering their own interests by maintaining a high
stock price so that they could profit from it.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Srinivasan, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
A couple of quick points on the honest
services fraud issue, and then a couple of points on the
juror issue, if I might.
With respect to honest services fraud, first
of all, I think that the government pointed to the jury
instruction -- and, Justice Ginsburg, this goes to some
questions that you had raised -- I think what's clear from
the capacious nature of the jury instruction that was issued
in this case is that the elements that the government say
make Jeff Skilling guilty of honest services fraud weren't
put before the jury or required to be found by the jury.
And for that reason alone, the conviction against Jeff
Skilling ought to be overturned.
Another point I'd make very quickly with
respect to the sweep of the government's theory
concerning the workplace is, under our understanding,
the duty of loyalty does extend to all employees. It
does, and, therefore, the theory that they assert should
apply in this case, I think, has devastating
implications for workplace relations.
Now, with respect to the juror question, a
couple of preliminary points, and then I'd like to
walk the Court through just one aspect of the voir dire
which I think exhibits the manifest flaws in the process
the trial court conducted.
With respect to the question about the
issuance of questionnaires, questionnaires were also
issued in the Timothy McVeigh case. But I don't want to
limit our comparison to Timothy McVeigh, because I think
in response to some of the questions that were raised, I
don't want to leave an impression that a multiple-day
voir dire with the sort of extensive questioning that we
think was required here is not in use in other cases
that involve like crimes.
In the Martha Stewart case, for example,
which was a financial case, there were 6 days of voir
dire and after a questionnaire was issued. And in that
case, the only reason you needed an extended voir dire
was because of the celebrity status of the defendant.
You didn't have the deep-seated community passion and
prejudice that characterized the Houston venue in this
case.
So, I think it's not at all unusual to have
that kind of extended voir dire, and, in fact, we would
say it's absolutely necessary to assure that the
defendant receives the fair and impartial jury to which
he's entitled.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So either this was too
little or Martha Stewart was too much?
(Laughter.)
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think the former
rather than the latter --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it's -- it's
a different model of it. As Mr. Dreeben was explaining,
if you have an experienced judge who goes through this
all the time, I think it's reasonable for him to say: Look,
bring the person in front of me. We've got a questionnaire.
I can identify the problems, look him in the eye, and I've
got a lot of experience picking a jury, and it's better to
let me do it than to have the lawyers have 3 weeks to do it.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, you don't necessarily
need all of that, Your Honor, but I think with respect
to the way in which the district court, in fact,
conducted this voir dire, if I could just take -- if I
could just direct the Court's attention to one juror in
particular -- and, Justice Breyer, this is -- maps onto
some of the points you were making. This is juror 61,
and the relevant exchange is at pages 931a to 932a of
the Joint Appendix, which is at -- in -- in volume 2.
And I think the way the trial court
conducted the voir dire in this case exhibits the
manifest flaws in his approach generally. This is
someone who at page 932a, it's revealed, answered the
question whether she was angry, whether there was anger
about Enron, with yes, quote -- it was, quote, "based out
of greed, hurt a lot of innocent people."
And to paint the picture more fully, the
person was also asked: Do you have an opinion about the
collapse of Enron? To which the answer was, quote, "Yes,
criminal, caused a huge shock wave which the entire
community felt," close quote.
Now, at 931a at the top, she was asked the
question whether she had the opinion about Mr. Lay and
her answer was, quote, "Shame on him."
And then much of this was put before her in
the course of the voir dire. In the middle of page
932a, the first answer -- she's asked the question: "Can
you presume as you start this trial that Mr. Lay is
innocent?" The answer is, "I hope so, but you know, I
don't know. I can't honestly answer that one way or
another."
JUSTICE BREYER: Then on 932, she does answer
it, and says, "He's assumed innocent." "And can you
conscientiously carry out that assumption?" "I could
honestly say I will give it my best."
MR. SRINIVASAN: Not until --
JUSTICE BREYER: And so the judge looks her
in the eye and says -- fine.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, not -- not until this
happens first, Justice Breyer, between 932a and 933a.
And so she's asked, "So that might -- might your views
about Ken Lay cloud your judgment relative to criminal
responsibility?"
JUSTICE BREYER: I see. And I'll --
MR. SRINIVASAN: And her answer is --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'll read that again. But my
question is, can we get a hold of these 238 questionnaires?
Are they in the record in front of us?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I believe that they are. I
think that they're certainly in the record before the court
of appeals. So I think that they are.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:00 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
adequately 4:8 61:14,19,22,24 arguments 14:7 awfully 47:10
63:2
37:18 61:8 art 45:11 46:4,5,7 back 15:8
apparently 32:7 articulated 17:21 48:6,10,21
40:21 34:14 39:14 aside 3:17 19:23 45:9 47:17
7:5,8 Appendix 35:6 asks 36:22 barrage 39:19
20:21 35:12 48:3,3 aspect 10:7 59:8 based 40:18
application 26:22 49:23 52:9
14:25 20:22
applied 5:18 assume 51:13 basis 5:13 15:23
16:11
29:20 30:2 assumption 62:4 bear 12:23 16:12
43:11
applies 23:23 7:15 15:11 began 8:10 46:14
appreciate 24:3 assure 60:5 58:8
13:7 52:2 38:17 41:11 55:6 62:19
47:20 49:9
approach 27:6 attack 9:25 believed 24:11
49:10
30:12 attempted 35:22 bench 8:16,18
7:25 attention 42:12 beneath 18:19
52:16
argument 1:12 Austin 36:11 48:16 49:10,11
8:4,8
bribes 23:24 49:16,21 51:9 characterized Cleveland 44:12
48:14 brief 9:21 24:6 52:8 53:14 charge 43:5 37:22 61:16
16:14 32:10 52:19 56:13,14,16 chief 3:3,9 13:22 club 36:21
20:16 briefs 29:23 57:10,24 58:19 13:24 14:2,5,9 cognizance
38:19 42:23 59:4,13,20,21 22:7,10,13,19 50:21
bring 12:23 59:23 60:2 61:6 23:1 24:25 cold 33:2
60:17 cases 4:6 18:20 38:1 41:2,7,10 9:22 30:21 31:2
12:23 15:1 brings 53:22 38:3 43:13 46:19 47:9,16 colloquies 38:22
broad 29:15 44:16,17 45:14 49:15,23 57:21 colloquy 16:7
19:6 broader 4:23 45:23,24 46:20 57:23 58:5,9 39:6
20:8,14 48:7 47:7,13 51:18 60:13 62:22,24 come 38:2,6
21:9 brought 8:16,18 52:3,10,15 children 41:15 comes 36:4 45:3
16:14 20:23 54:24 56:21,23 circuit 25:12 comfort 54:13
41:12 42:25 53:15 44:18 52:14 circumstances community 3:23
15:20,22 31:24 circumvent 56:7 12:9 13:14
36:25 capacity 28:19 caused 10:10 citizens 9:20 32:19 41:13,16
car 51:15,16 celebrity 59:24 city 7:14 8:24,25 61:16
18:5 case 3:4,24 6:6 27:12 32:5 40:23 41:5,11 company 42:20
7:22,24 8:24 62:20 41:18 52:22 49:25 57:19
20:3,11 9:13,15,19 10:5 challenge 5:11 civic 38:4 company's 27:24
32:24 10:11,16 15:25 5:12,13,19 claim 34:4 comparable 31:6
34:11 20:25 22:23 15:19,22,25 claiming 35:24 41:17
35:13 23:15,19,21 31:24 33:6 claims 52:19 compared 9:4
55:4,17 24:3,19 25:5,11 34:10 35:14,16 clarify 10:7 comparison 8:2
56:1 25:11 26:8 challenged 5:10 28:14 57:4 59:14
30:12 31:6 15:23 32:8 clauses 44:1,4 compass 22:22
62:2,7,10 32:17,25 34:3 challenges 4:13 clear 4:18 8:10 compensation
36:18 38:1 39:4 16:1 20:3 44:22 25:9,14,21 26:4
28:1,8,10 confident 13:12 42:2 36:4 37:25 38:2 28:18
29:8 conflict 52:15 convert 27:6 38:6,8,14,18 day 6:19 23:8
52:5 57:5 conflicting 44:19 28:19 39:16,22 40:17 57:23
51:19 56:25 convict 55:11 40:25 43:20,23 days 9:3 40:20,24
Congress 23:18 core 44:17 47:5 46:16 47:5 48:9 dealing 26:5
45:13 corporate 51:14 54:23 56:4 59:8 deaths 41:14
50:19 correct 4:5 13:6 61:5 62:20 54:2,14,14,21
62:4 corresponding 46:9 29:4
32:14 21:21 councilperson 50:20 60:25 50:21 52:18
considered 55:2 53:6,18,21 cover 24:8 44:12 53:23
conspiracy 43:5 5:16 6:21 8:4,5 45:19 14:20 17:25
27:16 43:12 62:22,24 credibility 39:10 deeper 12:18
27:17 49:13 counted 31:18,19 45:22 48:8 deep-seated 3:18
constituting countenanced crimes 42:19 defendant 13:3,4
construe 23:17 counties 39:19 criminal 44:21 41:22 42:4
content 45:6,19 counts 17:7 62:12 defendants
57:13 context 13:12 couple 6:14 53:24 46:14 48:12
7:6,12 12:8 contextual 17:20 course 56:12,17 culture 36:9 defendant's
20:19 continued 16:15 61:21 curtail 21:4 48:19 49:3
55:13 contract 54:15 3:14 4:4 7:18 D 15:7,9
54:17,18 7:20 10:20 16:7 D 3:1 definable 52:14
7:1 9:2 49:11 19:2,5 20:19 danger 12:13,22 49:7
30:16,18 controlling 22:1 30:4,11,23 12:22 13:17,23 defining 46:6
60:24 32:15 30:24 33:14 14:10 15:2 definition 47:6
conventional 34:9 35:7,17 16:21 20:19,22 47:25
difficulty 22:18 district 10:19 25:13 entertain 19:13
dire 4:8,11 6:7,15 document 21:17 effect 25:8 35:24 38:23
7:24 8:10 9:2,6 doesn't 22:24 effectively 35:22 entitled 60:7
30:18 31:7,9,16 Dowd 39:15 elaborated 11:8 38:20 39:24
34:22 35:19,20 dramatic 3:11 elements 26:24 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3
40:20 42:2 59:8 31:14 32:24 eliciting 30:17 essential 42:18
disallowed 45:18 48:24 49:19 29:11 52:5 45:3
disclose 24:16 51:1,7,17 52:6 28:24 29:4,6 38:8 56:11
42:23 24:22 25:1,2,3 57:3,7 60:14 29:9 exactly 55:1
53:19 duties 49:23 ended 5:12 17:13
discussion 27:11 duty 23:9,10,11 engaging 42:22 15:14 28:24
21:24 dispose 47:7 D.C 1:8,15,18 41:20 42:19,24 excluded 4:18
33:3 disqualification 48:12,16,18 excusal 32:9
46:9 33:13 E 49:4,9 57:13,16 Excuse 35:9
dissent 39:5 E 2:1 3:1,1 61:10,14 excused 5:13
fact 6:17 9:21,24 filled 36:5 former 60:11 general 1:17 6:10
43:19 60:4,23 49:24 52:20 for-cause 5:12 genuinely 32:21
11:23 13:4,8,13 13:8,13 33:25 frame 7:23 8:23 8:10 9:9,12
28:1 29:8 fairly 14:7 16:19 first 6:14 7:9 26:20,24 27:8 28:5,16 47:22
35:1 11:25 12:2 27:17,20 29:13 48:2 57:3,9
60:19 15:12 16:20 24:21 27:15 43:2,6,7,25 give 7:23 8:3,23
60:15 20:17 53:20 58:14 53:24 54:11,16 25:10 54:12
falls 22:22 fits 49:17 fraudulent 47:19 given 7:6 16:20
familiar 31:9 34:12 40:6 49:12 34:12 47:24
favorable 41:21 fleeced 42:13 front 19:19 39:1 19:10 27:21
Federal 23:13 42:12 55:4 full 27:15 33:1 goes 27:11 58:16
18:7 38:12 fundamental 13:24 14:3
34:24 felt 18:22 61:16 28:20 34:7 35:7 furtherance 29:7 good 11:4 22:5
59:17 ferret 4:8 15:24 53:5 furthered 26:10 52:17
fiduciaries 50:6 11:16,18 future 29:11 12:15 22:24
62:8 fiduciary 23:9,10 forced 19:15 26:3,9,12 27:16
fore 20:23 G 3:1 48:8,13 49:7
25:17 36:17 37:2 7:14,15 9:20,20 44:17 48:4,5,11 49:2
38:23 12:6,9,16 14:14 included 45:15 49:18 58:16,18
44:3 57:4heart 41:8 14:15 15:11 45:16 50:3 instructs 38:7
58:25 heightened 50:7 20:20 30:21 increase 53:7 intangible 22:15
high 58:2 human 9:18 indictable 54:10 56:13,17
21:22 highly 38:2 39:18 hypothetical 31:2 54:3 56:5 48:18 54:21
high-profile 31:6 17:2 53:6 individualized intense 3:24
47:10 23:4,7,21 24:1 identified 5:16 inducement 54:14,14,25,25
36:24 25:10,18 26:7 identifies 26:9 ineradicable intentional 47:19
36:7 27:19 29:13 13:21 14:20 inevitably 53:21 44:11
39:17,21 42:8,16 43:5,9 17:21 26:18 infected 35:25 interest 24:8,12
43:12 44:15,16 60:18 inflate 27:23 24:15,17,22
46:24 identifying 12:12 inflated 25:22 25:1,2,3,4,9,14
13:15 50:13,17 51:11 11:16 16:12 25:22,24 44:19 52:1,15
51:17,18 52:12 illustrates 35:6 26:1 27:3 29:10 52:21 53:2,16
52:17 53:1 35:20 38:4 42:5 56:8 54:9 56:9 57:2
20:8,11 58:11,14,20 impact 30:21 informed 27:4 34:21
33:7 53:8 honestly 61:25 41:12 29:10 30:14 interests 24:18
36:3 38:8 honesty 23:2 13:5,8,13 33:23 inherent 50:11 49:10,11 51:19
43:24 Honor 4:17 5:15 36:6 39:25 60:6 injury 52:20 56:25 57:22
6:14 9:16 11:15 impassioned innocence 11:7 58:1,2
56:1 62:10 22:5 26:13,17 implications 38:12 47:7
29:18 60:22 imploding 42:25 61:24 62:3 interviewed 7:21
12:17 21:17 53:22 18:9 21:4 35:2 interviews 9:3
57:20 40:6 59:16 instruct 38:11 investigation 4:2
37:6,10 38:7,13 48:5 49:2 58:15 62:14,16,22,24 16:22 19:6,11
57:6 41:8 60:15 62:7 Justice 1:18 3:3 K 1:3 language 17:24
judges 17:11,12 3:10 4:10,20,23 Keane 52:18,20 18:7
43:5 52:3 judge's 21:12 8:7,9 9:9,12 keep 47:14 latent 21:9
judgment 62:12 10:1,7 11:12,19 Ken 11:1 36:20 Laughter 42:9
55:9 57:4 35:24 53:6 18:5,10,13,16 51:13 47:12 48:6 49:4
juror 4:18 5:10 18:23 19:18 key 57:12 49:5 50:22 51:2
8:16 9:3 10:18 21:13,15 22:7 44:17 55:8,12,14 56:7
15:12,14 16:3,4 23:1 24:25 29:21 43:11 34:23 46:21
33:5 59:7 19:11,12 20:9 26:14 27:9 28:5 9:6,8 32:22 lay 10:15 11:2
46:24 34:15 35:4,5,19 31:11,17 32:24 kinds 46:15,20 61:23 62:12
36:3 37:9 39:1 33:5,18,19 34:5 knew 11:9 15:15 leave 59:16
59:6 60:25 61:2 35:13 37:9,24 42:21 48:15 left 5:21 8:19
6:11 40:2,6 41:2,7 know 10:4 16:10 legal 38:7 56:2
24:12 19:24 20:15,21 45:9,14,25 46:3 40:19,25 46:8 lengthy 11:20
21:1 31:2 34:1 46:19 47:9,16 47:1,2 54:17,19 lesson 35:18
61:4 38:17 39:17,20 50:1,6,9,13,16 61:24,25 liability 24:23
9:2 jury 3:16 4:15 51:7,13 52:2,7 24:13 46:10 liable 54:17
12:18 5:8 7:22 11:24 53:5,10,17 54:5 52:7 56:3 liars 43:4
17:6 12:18,21 13:8 54:12,24 55:4 known 44:16 lie 13:24 14:3
20:24 13:13 17:6,8 55:17,18,21 knows 56:25 27:7 28:20
30:12,16 26:21 30:13 56:1,8,12,16,20 49:24
32:16 L
33:23 57:3,9 58:5,10 life 9:14,14
25:20 44:6 39:22 narrow 23:24 O
MICHAEL 1:17 nation 41:8 O 2:1 3:1
61:2
59:9 61:7
60:9 minimum 7:21 9:6 17:23 21:6 obligation 50:17
mistake 7:9 59:23 obviously 9:15
40:15 53:19 33:19
21:7,11 misused 51:23 news 10:24 36:15 39:6
63:2
30:23 36:3 51:25 newspapers 10:3 occurs 7:2,4
51:3 model 60:14 10:24 offense 31:22
56:21 moment 26:19 nine 35:10 41:24 33:8
60:16,18 Monday 1:9 nondisclosure Office 4:1
45:19
50:20,21
59:13,14
17:7 23:8
37:4 45:2
61:11 move 7:19 20:9 Normally 51:7 oftentimes 30:18
46:21 50:6
56:12
movies 10:25 noticed 39:16 54:20 56:22
multi-count 43:5 notwithstandi... Oklahoma 8:24
44:22,23 number 17:25 41:5,11
36:23 37:8 part 12:17 14:10 person 11:3,10 pockets 42:4 presence 39:6
61:13 22:20 25:16 15:18 19:14 point 10:9 12:7 presented 38:10
27:11 41:16 36:15 38:13,15 12:20 16:13,16 press 16:15
particular 10:22 55:22 60:17 21:20 24:10 presumption
41:13 48:15 personal 25:14 43:19,20 46:5 19:21 38:11
particularized 29:3,7 44:19 58:24 pretrial 10:10,12
42:23 particularly personally 42:4 39:5 58:15 11:5,11 39:20
13:17,20 parties 30:15,19 pervaded 20:20 policy 28:24 29:6 prevent 55:1
20:2,4 30:22 pervasive 18:20 pool 12:19 38:23 prevents 17:17
passion 4:7 9:7 36:1 40:4 portions 42:24 27:19
18:14,18 20:6 Petitioner 1:4,16 24:14,19 26:4 22:23 23:15
57:25 Patton 13:19 51:24 52:19 possible 11:23 price 26:2,5
37:4,4 38:2 12:24 16:23 30:17 private 52:1,1
26:8 27:10 33:16 34:13 picture 8:17 preexisting 31:15,17 56:18
30:23 period 6:18 61:12 50:22 problematic
48:2 peripherally pinpoint 34:24 preferred 40:16 24:20 30:2
37:3 place 21:10 22:5 prejudice 4:7 36:23
61:3 permeate 15:2 placed 57:22 12:9 13:2,2 60:18
19:7,19 20:14 21:22 please 3:10 30:11 prejudiced 14:23 proceedings
21:23 publication 34:24 59:12,12 30:3 34:16 remaining 5:25
10:12,14,17,23 8:4,8 11:5 recall 36:16 remarked 35:8
7:24 11:17 11:6,11 36:11 21:11 30:4,25 recantation remember 16:8
13:18 39:20 41:6 32:10 58:17 37:22 removable 38:19
59:9 publicized 38:3 59:15 receive 38:4 render 48:20
29:1,2 33:16 quite 11:16 46:1428:12 renewed 21:17
19:23 26:20 61:14,16,19 37:25,25 44:13 reply 52:19
46:18 putting 35:22 raised 21:2 58:17 62:18,20 required 8:22
53:3,8,15 p.m 1:13 3:2 63:1 59:15 recounting 31:19 15:4,5 49:3
ran 3:25 recused 4:2 58:21 59:18
qualifies 53:9 reaction 50:20 refer 46:15 requisite 56:5
12:17 15:8 16:1 13:12 24:18 8:23 reserve 30:5
23:13 22:11 27:17 reading 27:14 9:21,23 46:13 resolve 51:9
27:8 45:7 30:13 35:8 33:1 34:19 referring 5:4 respect 6:14 7:2
49:21 59:6,11 reality 9:19 refers 46:4 12:15 14:9
47:10 62:17 11:19 18:24 refuse 20:25 28:23 29:24
51:16 8:14 34:25 37:10,14 39:15 regardless 10:17 51:24 58:14,25
21:2,19,21 realm 30:2 21:18 24:20
20:5 60:17 59:23 relied 4:8 6:7 2:6 30:9
27:18 questionnaires reasonable 8:15 34:23 responding 44:8
52:25 3:17,22 10:2,18 48:14 60:16 relief 21:18 response 16:10
57:14 10:21 32:18 reasons 29:3 remainder 5:7 21:1 32:22
robust 41:18 seating 19:14 50:17 51:11,18 situations 10:22
rule 12:25 18:24 19:10 53:1 54:10 six 5:3,5,16,17,23
running 18:25 section 51:4 58:20 16:1 31:19 32:5
42:18 43:2,7 40:18 44:4 Skilling 1:3 3:4
S 2:1 3:1 27:5 32:19 33:9 52:18 15:15,16 22:16
sat 34:3,15 57:11 62:14 shape 45:22 36:7 41:23
56:6 55:18,19,21 selecting 30:14 42:20 43:1 solid 45:18,20
says 12:25 19:21 31:12 49:4,9,11,24 20:7,12 42:13
28:25 29:1 29:25 shares 25:21,22 somebody's
36:10,14 37:6,7 selling 52:22 57:6,7 somewhat 38:3
17:10 62:8 sense 41:15 shock 61:15 18:3 21:15,16
22:15 Scalia 26:14 42:21 46:13 shorter 40:3 24:25 50:1
35:20 44:20 45:1,2,9 sentiment 9:19 shorthand 46:5 sort 15:2 17:22
39:9 45:14 48:22,25 separate 44:5 show 48:11 51:22 19:8 21:5,25
44:14,15 50:1,6,9,13,16 52:23 56:2 22:20 28:9 36:1
45:12 50:18 54:12,24 seriousness showing 40:4 40:19 41:25
47:2,20 60:8 38:17 54:1 50:7 54:16 56:2
57:20,22 scene 38:14,15 serve 34:2 51:25 shows 54:3 59:17
27:19,22,23 services 22:16 significant 30:21 Sotomayor 4:10
46:2,17 24:2,7,11,23 simple 7:11,15 5:22 6:9 18:2,4
14:2,5 school 36:12 27:20 29:13 34:21 35:3 33:18 34:5 53:5
23:1 scienter 54:1 42:8,16 43:5,9 sits 41:8 53:11,17 54:5
29:14 scope 6:15 8:12 43:12 44:15,16 sitting 33:2 Sotomayor's
41:2,10 8:12 52:12 45:4,5,12 46:24 situation 7:19 16:1 56:8
46:3,19 se 33:13 46:24 47:23 13:21 19:10 sound 47:15
49:15 58:5 search 16:18 48:8,13,15,20 23:9,11 28:9 sounds 40:6
62:22,24 seated 6:6 19:12 49:3,3 50:2,14 52:3 southern 39:19
16:1 43:9,17,18,20 suggest 13:7 54:15 24:3,10,20
58:7 53:9,24 support 45:7 41:6 30:1 31:10,15
3:6,7,9 55:1 44:20 30:10 58:4,5,9 32:25 33:10,12
5:2,14 statutory 22:11 supposed 33:11 62:22,23 33:19 34:4,8,18
6:13 8:6,9 Stevens 44:10 47:14 that's 9:6 10:8 35:1,3,5,19
10:6 Stevens's 46:1 Supreme 1:1,12 13:23 14:4 36:6,24 37:7,11
13:6 Stewart 59:20 sure 4:22 9:16 26:22 30:18 37:14,17 40:2,5
14:1,4 60:9 10:14 17:3 22:9 33:19 37:21 40:8 41:17,25
15:21 17:3 stock 26:1 27:24 22:12 32:3 48:3 49:6 53:7 42:5,12,15
18:3,6 28:7,10,11 51:21 theory 24:4 43:14,22 45:20
57:16,18,20 surveys 10:18 25:17 26:7,20 46:12 47:4,17
20:3 21:8 58:3 sweep 23:16 26:24,25 28:3 48:7 49:14,20
22:9 stoked 10:14 58:25 28:18 57:5 50:11,14,18
23:5 stopped 12:20 sworn 16:3 58:25 59:3 51:8 53:11,20
26:6,16 stopwatch 40:19 symptom 10:12 there's 12:10 53:22 54:11
28:7,18 straightforward symptomatic 14:13,16,22,24 55:25 56:20
58:6,7,9 24:1 34:6 20:22 21:14 58:15,17 59:4,9
62:6,9 strange 34:1 23:9,10,19 28:9 59:14,18 60:3
strike 5:20 34:6 T 33:12 39:13 60:11,16,22
40:7,21 subject 15:1 48:7 57:1 60:24 They'd 42:8 thinks 15:15,15
51:1 subjective 31:19 taken 24:15 they'll 17:14 Thompson 25:11
29:19 52:13 takes 22:24 they'd 32:6 25:16 26:3
55:8 subset 42:18 tax 53:7,7,8,11 things 19:5 22:2 threaten 27:6
57:10 14:22 44:19 television 36:18 think 7:1,18 8:19 52:23
19:16 substratum 42:1 31:5 37:15,21 11:9,15,16,19 threw 32:18
subterranean 47:1 53:17 12:16 13:11,13 tied 28:11
4:1 33:15 subtle 49:22 30:18 14:11,19 15:3 8:12 14:16 17:9
52:18 successful 12:12 tens 57:15 15:11 16:4,19 22:8 24:4 30:5
24:2,7 suffered 48:19 terminated 21:4,14 22:5,20 60:16
turn 53:21 56:11 59:18 11:17,20 12:1 went 31:17 35:1
43:3 U vague 23:22,23 39:23 40:3,16 willing 11:21
15:4,5 unanimously 4:5 54:20 55:2 60:4,24 61:6,21 witness 33:24
unaware 9:12 vagueness 43:14 voir-dired 35:5 wondering 46:25
21:24 41:3 unbiased 12:5 validly 24:2 48:3 61:4 worked 30:22
43:10,14 variety 28:21 voting 53:3 28:20,25 59:1,5
7:10 understand 21:23 wait 47:11 worried 17:16
8:4 22:13,18 24:1 vent 42:6 waived 35:14 18:24 20:2
11:21 12:18 50:19 venue 9:10 21:18 wake 9:22 32:15,20,21
14:16 16:7 understanding 60:1 walk 59:8 worries 56:14
19:1,2,4 23:14,16 24:22 verdicts 41:21 want 19:1 48:5 worrying 32:20
25:8 28:15 59:1 versus 53:15 59:13,16 worst 34:13
22:1 understood victim 31:22 33:8 Washington 1:8 wouldn't 12:12
32:16,20 46:15 33:25 47:20 1:15,18 15:24
33:6 38:6 undisclosed 25:4 victimization wasn't 4:19 5:11 wound 11:3
41:19,23 29:25 52:14 41:16 43:1 15:5,21 25:20 written 43:18
59:10 unduly 4:9 victims 34:1 watch 10:24 44:10
United 1:1,6,12 view 5:6 7:10 36:14 wrong 35:18
44:12 52:17 20:8 28:15 43:8 wave 17:23 18:13
62:11 8:2 9:17,23 Y
40:23
34:13 voir 4:8,11 6:7,15 ways 23:25 46:6 55:7,18
24:5
5
32:9
26:9,14 27:10
27:11,15,16
1:4 3:4 52 27:11,11
2:9
1:9 6:18 9:3,4 6
1:13 3:2 6 4:13 59:21
48:2 60 3:15
34:15 61 61:2
8:13 63 11:3 15:9,14
4:14 12:5,12 16:3,4,21 35:4
39:20 35:5,14,16,18
21:14,16 35:19 36:4
30:22
40:11 7
30:13 70 30:25
4:1 74 32:1
41:14 76 37:10
9:3
9:2 8
7:21
35:11 61:4 9
63:1 9/11 9:25
31:18 42:3 90 39:16
1:9 931a 61:3,17
12:25 932 62:2
62:17 932a 61:3,8,22
36:4 62:10
31:22 933a 62:10
35:7,11
2:4 48:3 60:20
2:6
7:25 9:4 12:16
41:19
35:25 41:18
