IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
OTIS MCDONALD, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 08-1521
CITY OF CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 2, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:13 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ALAN GURA, ESQ., Alexandria, Virginia; on behalf of
Petitioners.
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Respondents
National Rifle Association, Inc., et al., in support
of Petitioners.
JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ., Special Assistant Corporation
Counsel; on behalf of Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ALAN GURA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
for Respondents National Rifle Association,
Inc., et al., in support of Petitioners 18
JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ALAN GURA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 61
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:13 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear
argument first this morning in Case 08-1521, McDonald v.
The City of Chicago.
Mr. Gura.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALAN GURA
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. GURA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Although Chicago's ordinances cannot survive
the faithful application of due process doctrines, there
is an even simpler, more essential reason for reversing
the lower court's judgment. The Constitution's plain
text, as understood by the people that ratified it,
mandates this result.
In 1868, our nation made a promise to the
McDonald family; they and their descendants would
henceforth be American citizens, and with American
citizenship came the guarantee enshrined in our
Constitution that no State could make or enforce any law
which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of
American citizenship.
The rights so guaranteed were not trivial.
The Civil War was not fought because States were
attacking people on the high seas or blocking access to
the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. The rights
secured by the Fourteenth Amendment were understood to
include the fundamental rights honored by any free
government and the personal guarantees of the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of course, this
argument is contrary to the Slaughter-House Cases, which
have been the law for 140 years. It might be simpler,
but it's a big -- it's a heavy burden for you to carry
to suggest that we ought to overrule that decision.
MR. GURA: Your Honor, the Slaughter-House
Cases should not have any stare decisis effect before
the Court. The Court has always found that when a case
is extremely wrong, when there is a great consensus that
it was simply not decided correctly, especially in a
constitutional matter, it has less force.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What injustice has --
has been caused by it that we have to remedy? Meaning
States have relied on having no grand juries; States
have relied on not having civil trials in certain money
cases; they have relied on regulating the use of
firearms based on us, the Court, not incorporating the
Privileges and Immunities Clause in the way that you
identify it.
MR. GURA: State --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What -- in which ways
has ordered liberty been badly affected?
MR. GURA: Justice Sotomayor, States may
have grown accustomed to violating the rights of
American citizens, but that does not bootstrap those
violations into something that is constitutional.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you saying that the
rights -- if you could clarify your conception of
privileges and immunities. Am I right in thinking that
to keep and bear arms would be included even if we had
no Second Amendment, as you envision privileges and
immunities?
MR. GURA: Justice Ginsburg, that is
correct. The framers and the public understood the
term --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But -- just tell us the
dimensions of what it is. I mean, we have the eight
amendments, so I know you say that's included. Keep and
bear arms would be included even absent the Second
Amendment. What unenumerated rights would we be
declaring privileges and immunities under your
conception of it?
MR. GURA: Although it's impossible to give
a full list of all the unenumerated rights that might be
protected by the Privileges and Immunities Clause, just
as it's impossible to do so under the Due Process
Clause, at least with respect to the Privileges and
Immunities Clause we have wonderful historical
guideposts. There are --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Gura, do you think it's
at all easier to bring the Second Amendment under the
Privileges and Immunities Clause than it is to bring it
under our established law of substantive due process?
MR. GURA: It's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it easier to do it under
privileges and immunities than it is under substantive
due process?
MR. GURA: It's easier in terms, perhaps,
of -- of the text and history, the original public
understanding of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no. I'm not talking
about whether -- whether the Slaughter-House Cases were
right or wrong. I'm saying, assuming we give, you know,
the Privileges and Immunities Clause your definition,
does that make it any easier to get the Second Amendment
adopted with respect to the States?
MR. GURA: Justice Scalia, I suppose the
answer to that would be no, because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if the answer is no,
why are you asking us to overrule 150, 140 years of
prior law, when -- when you can reach your result under
substantive due -- I mean, you know, unless you're
bucking for a -- a place on some law school faculty --
(Laughter.)
MR. GURA: No. No. I have left law school
some time ago, and this is not an attempt to -- to
return.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I mean, what you
argue is the darling of the professoriate, for sure,
but it's also contrary to 140 years of our jurisprudence.
Why do you want to undertake that burden instead of just
arguing substantive due process? Which, as much as I
think it's wrong, I have -- even I have acquiesced in it.
(Laughter.)
MR. GURA: Justice Scalia, we would be
extremely happy if the Court reverses the lower court
based on the substantive due process theory that we
argued in the Seventh Circuit. And, indeed, had the
Seventh Circuit accepted our substantive due process
theory, which was our primary theory in the court below,
we might not be here, or perhaps we would be here in a
different posture.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that -- that court
does not have the prerogative to overturn any of this
Court's decisions, and I think it said -- said as much.
So it was kind of a pass-through in the court of
appeals.
But I really would like you to answer the
question that you didn't have an opportunity to finish
answering, and that is: What other enumerated rights?
What does the privileges and immunities of United States
citizenship embrace?
MR. GURA: Of the unenumerated rights,
Justice Ginsburg?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. GURA: Well, the framers clearly used
language that to them meant rights beyond those
guaranteed in the first eight amendments. And whenever
they spoke about those unenumerated rights, they gave
some concrete examples. So I think that there might be
two categories of unenumerated rights if a claim were
before the court under that provision.
If a right is, for example, the sort of
right that was mentioned in the Civil Rights Act of
1866, the piece of legislation enacted by a
supermajority of Congress, where the Congress said, over
President Johnson's veto, here are the rights of
American citizenship, and they are -- they listed: To
make and enforce contracts; to sue, be parties, and give
evidence; to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold, and
convey real and personal property. That's the sort of
right that would be easy to find because there is a
contemporaneous source for telling us --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even though -- even
though a large portion of the population at that time
didn't have those rights?
MR. GURA: The large -- the population at
the time that did not have those rights needed their
protection, primarily in the South, which is why the
Civil Rights Act --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, throughout --
throughout the nation at the time.
MR. GURA: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did married women at that
time across the nation have the right to contract, to
hold property, to sue and be sued?
MR. GURA: Married women were considered
citizens of the United States, just like children were
considered citizens. However, the law did not always
protect people fully, and we've made great strides in
this country giving a greater level of protection to --
to certain rights. We understand certain rights better
today than we did 140 years ago, and the fact that First
Amendment rights weren't fully respected, Second
Amendment rights weren't always respected, Fourth
Amendment rights were not always understood well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does it work just one
way? I mean, if the notion is that these are principles
that any free society would adopt, well, a lot of free
societies have rejected the right to keep and bear arms.
MR. GURA: As we mentioned -- as we
mentioned in our brief, this Court in Benton v. Maryland
decided that henceforth American history and tradition
are important to consider what rights are protected in
this country. It's true that our friends overseas who
have more or less civilized, free societies don't
respect rights to the same level that we do. For
example, England, which is a free society, has a
monarchy. They have hereditary lords in parliament.
They don't have First Amendment protection.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this -- then it's not
one expression of this unenumerated rights, natural rights,
or the rights that any free society -- basic to a free
society. So you -- you have to trim your definition.
It's not basic to any free society.
MR. GURA: As understood by the people who
ratified the Fourteenth Amendment. It's not a
free-flowing license, necessarily, for judges to
announce unenumerated rights. However, to the extent
that we have unenumerated rights which the framers and
ratifiers didn't literally understand, they nonetheless
left us guideposts that we can --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what about rights
rooted in the traditions and conscience of our people?
Would -- would that do the job?
MR. GURA: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That happens to be the test
we have used under substantive due process.
MR. GURA: That's correct and, as Judge
O'Scannlain --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. GURA: -- in the Ninth Circuit observed
in the Nordyke decision, the Slaughter-House dissenters
seemed to arrive at the same point, perhaps, that this
Court did in the Glucksberg case.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Gura, can I ask you
the same question Justice Ginsburg asked about: What if
there were no Second Amendment? You say the right would
still be protected under the Privileges and Immunities
Clause. What about -- would it also be protected under
substantive due process if there were no Second
Amendment?
MR. GURA: It would be, Your Honor. The
fact --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Because of the -- the
importance of the right to protection -- and would that
apply to the entire scope of the Second Amendment or just
the right to keep the gun, a homeowner's right to keep a
gun for self-protection against intruders into the home,
under the -- without the Second Amendment, just the
Liberty Clause?
MR. GURA: The Second Amendment is not so
limited and neither is the right to arms, even outside
the Second --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm assuming we don't have
a Second Amendment for purposes of the substantive due
process analysis. I'm asking you what is the scope of
the right to own a gun that is protected by the Liberty
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment? Is it just the
right to have it at -- at home, or is the right to
parade around the streets with guns?
MR. GURA: An unenumerated right to arms in
the absence of the Second Amendment would be, perhaps --
probably identical to that secured by the Second
Amendment, because the Second Amendment codified the
understanding of that right that people have
historically had in the country. So there would not be
a difference between the right to arms if it were a part
of the Second Amendment or --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I thought your --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In -- in that
context, is your position that the rights that are
incorporated as essential to the concept of ordered
liberty, do they bring all of our decisions with them?
When you say the First Amendment is covered, does that
mean New York Times v. Sullivan is incorporated as well?
Or is it only some lesser version of the incorporated
right?
MR. GURA: With respect to the substantive
due process argument that we're making?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. GURA: We are not challenging -- we are
not the party that's before the Court that is
challenging anything that has gone on before in terms of
substantive due process. We believe that those cases
were by and large decided appropriately, and if the
Court wishes to reconsider any of them for some reason,
it -- that has really nothing to do --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, I understood the Chief
Justice's question -- maybe I misunderstood it, but my
understanding of the question as important is this:
Under incorporation by reference, the States are bound
by the rights in all -- with all of the refinements and
sophistication with which we interpret them for the
Federal Government. It's the same. You don't just
apply the core of the right. You apply all of the right
as it is elaborated by the cases.
Is -- is that same consequence -- does that
same consequence follow if we adopt the privileges and
immunities interpretation that you are urging upon us?
MR. GURA: Yes, Your Honor, because --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. How does that work?
I think that would be useful for either you or
Mr. Clement, if you've thought this through. Is this
right different from others?
MR. GURA: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: There are two ways. One is
that -- look at -- all you have to do is look at the
briefs. Look at the statistics. You know, one side
says a million people killed by guns. Chicago says that
their -- their gun law has saved hundreds, including --
and they have statistics -- including lots of women in
domestic cases. And the other side disputes it. This
is a highly statistical matter. Without incorporation,
it's decided by State legislatures; with, it's decided
by Federal judges.
Now, think of this, too: That when you have
the First Amendment, or some of the other amendments,
there's always a big area where it's free speech versus
a whole lot of things, but not often free speech versus
life. When it's free speech versus life, we very often
decide in favor of life. Here every case will be on one
side guns, on the other side human life. Statistics,
balancing life versus guns. How are Federal judges in
your opinion, rather than legislatures in the States in
a Federal system -- how are Federal judges supposed to
carry this out? I want to see where we're going.
MR. GURA: Federal judges should carry this
out in the same way that was announced in this Court's
decision in Heller. So --
JUSTICE BREYER: Heller, I didn't think,
explained that with great -- I was dissenting,
though. I didn't think it explained it with total
clarity, but that's a dissenter's view.
(Laughter.)
MR. GURA: Heller stood for the proposition
that some activities are within the core boundaries of a
right, and so long as people wish to do something that
is literally understood to be a part of the boundaries of
the right, it is to be protected, and --
JUSTICE BREYER: Let me be specific, suppose
Chicago says, look, by banning handguns not in the
hills, not hunting, nothing like that, nothing outside
the city -- in the city, we save several hundred human
lives every year. And the other side says, we don't
think it is several hundred, and, moreover, that doesn't
matter. How do you decide the case?
MR. GURA: We decide that by looking, not to
which side has the better statistics, but rather to what
the framers said in the Constitution, because that
policy choice was made for us in the Constitution.
They --
JUSTICE BREYER: You're saying they can
have -- no matter what, that the City just can't have
guns even if they're saving hundreds of lives -- they
can't ban them.
MR. GURA: The City cannot ban guns that are
within the common use as protected by the right to arms.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There's a lot of
statistical disagreement on whether the Miranda rule
saves lives or not, whether it results in the release of
dangerous people who have confessed to their crime, but
the confession can't be used. We don't -- we don't
resolve questions like that on the basis of statistics,
do we?
MR. GURA: That's correct, Justice Scalia,
and as your opinion --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why would this one be
resolved on the basis of statistics? If there's a
constitutional right, we find what the minimum
constitutional right is, and everything above that is up
to the States.
MR. GURA: That --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If they want to have, you
know -- I think we mentioned in Heller concealed carry
laws. I mean, those are -- those are matters that we
didn't decide in Heller. And you may have a great deal
of divergence from State to State. And on that, I suppose,
you would do statistics, wouldn't you? Or the legislature
would.
MR. GURA: Well, Your Honor, we do agree
that statistics are not important to determine whether
or not a right --
JUSTICE SCALIA: For the judges. For the
judges.
MR. GURA: That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they would be for the
legislatures.
MR. GURA: A legislature should respect the
fact that there is a constitutional right at issue, and
this Court in footnote 27 in Heller explained that under
the Carolene Products paradigm, footnote 4, rights
enumerated in the Constitution are entitled to a greater
measure of respect.
And if I may reserve the remainder of my time
for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS NATIONAL RIFLE
ASSOCIATION, INC., ET AL.,
IN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Under this court's existing jurisprudence,
the case for incorporating the Second Amendment through
the Due Process Clause is remarkably straightforward.
The Second Amendment, like the First and the Fourth,
protects a fundamental preexisting right that is
guaranteed to the people -- -
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Clement, would you
comment on Justice Kennedy's question about whether that
necessarily incorporates every jot and tittle of the
Federal right into the Federal, keeping in mind that
with regard to trial by jury in criminal cases, there's
a difference. It's nonunanimous juries. Why does this
incorporation have to be every bit as broad as the
Second Amendment itself?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Stevens, I think
in that respect the Sixth Amendment is a bit of an
outlier. For most of the provisions and as far as I
know all of the substantive provisions of the Bill of
Rights that have been incorporated against the States,
this Court has incorporated basically all the
jurisprudence that comes with that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, what is the last
case in which we incorporated a substantive provision?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I guess maybe it's Mapp,
is one way of thinking about it. I mean --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mapp was a procedural
case.
MR. CLEMENT: -- I could quibble about that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mapp was a Fourth Amendment
case. I'm asking you cases involving incorporation of
substantive rights, as opposed to procedural rights.
MR. CLEMENT: Well --
JUSTICE STEVENS: The procedural cases come
in under the due process language, but the substantive
cases comes under the word "liberty," and "liberty"
picks up the First Amendment and so forth. And I take
it it's the word "liberty" that picks up the Second
Amendment. And if it does, why does it have to be
precisely the same scope as the Second Amendment?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, sure. We could quibble
whether -- I think of the Fourth Amendment as more of a
substantive guarantee. But in any event, with respect
to certainly like the First Amendment guarantees that
this Court has incorporated through the liberty -- the
liberty subclause, if you will, of the Due Process
Clause, there too I think this Court -- certainly I
understand this Court's jurisprudence as incorporating
all of the cases that go along with that.
So New York Times v. Sullivan is the law of
all 50 States, et cetera, et cetera. And I think that
in a sense the virtue of that approach is probably even
more apparent with the Second Amendment than it might be
with some other jurisprudence --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess we -- I guess we
have applied substantive due process with regard to the
necessity of permitting homosexual conduct and with
respect to the necessity of permitting abortion on
demand. We have not adopted a more rigid rule for the
Federal Government than we have adopted for the States
in either of those instances, have we?
MR. CLEMENT: That's also right, Your Honor,
though I guess I would stress that I think that,
whatever the debate's about substantive due process when
it comes to unenumerated rights, I think the gist of
this Court's incorporation doctrine is that the textual
provisions of the Bill of Rights stand in a favored
position with respect to incorporation. And so Glucksberg
has its discussion about the standard for unenumerated
rights, but it starts that off by saying of course the
Bill of Rights are different. And, of course, the Bill
of Rights, I think, as I read this Court's selective --
JUSTICE STEVENS: They stand in a favored
position, but we've never said had to be literally
all the way down the line, or we couldn't have done
the criminal jury -- nonunanimous criminal jury case.
MR. CLEMENT: Again, though, it's
interesting that the one place that I -- that I see where
the Court has not effectively translated all the case law
is one of the procedural rights, the Sixth Amendment
criminal jury right. And I think with respect to the
substantive rights -- and I think the alliance here or
the similarity between the First and the Second
Amendments are very stark in this respect -- this Court
has incorporated essentially not just the amendment and
not just the right, but all of the jurisprudence as
well.
And, you know, I would -- just to dwell for
a moment if I'd could on the -- on the First and the Second
Amendment, I think it's striking, very striking, that if
this Court's not going to reconsider its Privileges or
Immunities Clause jurisprudence, the Cruikshank case
actually stands as very good precedent for incorporating
the Second Amendment, just as it was the precedent this
Court relied on in incorporating the assembly and petition
rights of the First Amendment in the De Jonge case. And
the reason is Cruikshank -- the whole reason that
Cruikshank said the First and Second Amendments aren't
privileges of national citizenship is because they were
preexisting rights that didn't depend on the
Constitution for their existence.
That seems to me to be a pretty good working
definition of what a fundamental right is, one that is
so fundamental and basic that it preexisted our very
Constitution. And so it's not surprising that De Jonge
cited Cruikshank as favorable precedent for
incorporation.
I think the exact same logic would apply to
the Second Amendment here, and, as I say, I do think the
consequence of that, certainly the most logical
consequence, would be to carry over the jurisprudence
under the Second Amendment. Now, right now, that's not
carrying over a lot, right? That's carrying over the
Heller case.
But I think in a way that points up to the
fact that one of the virtues of incorporation is that,
because the Miller decision of this Court sowed
confusion, we don't have substantial Second Amendment
jurisprudence. And I would think that it's going to be
difficult enough to develop the Second Amendment
jurisprudence that you wouldn't want to make it more
difficult by having to develop a Federal Second
Amendment jurisprudence and then some sort of shadow
version of that jurisprudence for the States.
And I think in the more recent incorporation
cases, this Court was quite candid that it wasn't going
to adopt sort of a shadow version of the Federal
guarantee or some watered-down version of the Federal
guarantee, but it really saw the virtue of incorporating
not just the right but the jurisprudence that came with
that right.
And so I do think that's in a sense
something that counts in favor of incorporating the
Second Amendment and doing so through the Due Process
Clause, the same way this Court has dealt with the other
substantive guarantees of the Bill of Rights. And I
think if you apply that jurisprudence, the case really
is very straightforward. In fact, I think if you
compare the First Amendment and the Fourth Amendment to
the Second Amendment, they have the same textual
guarantee to the people, they trace their origins to
preexisting rights back to the English Bill of Rights,
back to even earlier constitutional history.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's true of the
criminal jury trial right, too, all of those things?
And yet we don't -- it's not exactly the same. I just
don't see why it has to be exactly the same. I can
understand your argument that it should be substantially
the same, but I don't see that there's anything in the
text of the Fourteenth Amendment that would justify
saying it must be precisely the same, or of any of our
cases.
MR. CLEMENT: Well -- and, again, Justice
Stevens, you know, since I think that -- that the
incorporation clause is -- I mean, the incorporation
jurisprudence is, to put it lightly, a gloss on the text
of the Due Process Clause --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Incorporation
jurisprudence is -- we haven't had an incorporation case
for 30 years or more.
MR. CLEMENT: That's right. That's right,
Justice Stevens. But I guess I would say is that,
putting the Sixth Amendment to one side, which I think
is a bit of an outlier in the jurisprudence here, I
think the trend of all of this Court's incorporation
jurisprudence has been more towards complete
incorporation of the right and the jurisprudence. So --
I mean, Mapp is a perfect illustration.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That still allows
scope, once you determine that the right is
incorporated, for recognizing that the States might have
broader interests that the Federal Government doesn't
have. But I would suppose that would come up in the
application of the right, rather than in an effort to
determine whether parts of it are incorporated or not.
MR. CLEMENT: That's right,
Mr. Chief Justice, and I think the same thing can be
said for any other one of the other incorporated
amendments. So I think the same thing might be true in
the First Amendment. There are certainly going to be
situations that the Federal government confronts that
the State governments won't confront the exact analogue
situation and vice versa.
Now, you know, there may be unique issues
about national parks that the States aren't going to
have to confront, and the jurisprudence can take that
into account. But I think that's far different from
saying that we really are going to have this shadow
jurisprudence for one of the provisions.
And I think, again, to go back to Mapp just
as an illustration, when this Court first incorporated
the Fourth Amendment and said, well, we'll talk about
the exclusionary rule later; maybe we won't incorporate
the Fourth -- the exclusionary rule. We'll just
incorporate the Fourth Amendment's basic guarantee. And
the trend of later cases was to say, no, kind of in for
a penny, in for a pound --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You're -- you're dead right --
MR. CLEMENT: -- let's bring the
jurisprudence with --
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- about the majority of
the Court, but it's interesting that during this whole
period, Justice Harlan staked out a separate position on
whether it should be just the substance of the right or
the -- every detail. And we have followed Justice Harlan,
rather than the majority in a number of cases in -- in
the recent years.
MR. CLEMENT: Well --
JUSTICE STEVENS: He is very much against you,
and he's a very important member of our -- of our history.
MR. CLEMENT: Justice Harlan was a terrific
justice. Justice Black was a terrific justice in --
JUSTICE ALITO: Maybe we should go back --
MR. CLEMENT: -- in his total
incorporation --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, Mr. Clement, why
shouldn't we go back completely to Justice Harlan's view
about the way in which the Bill of Rights applies to the
States?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think if we are going
to go back, maybe we should go back to the first Justice
Harlan, who actually had an -- an approach, I think,
that would be much more similar to the approach --
JUSTICE BREYER: But there is a difference.
MR. CLEMENT: -- that we take in this case
and that Mr. Gura takes in this case.
JUSTICE BREYER: There is a difference here
with the other amendments. There is a difference, and the
other amendments -- you have the First Amendment's,
the First Amendment expression.
Here we have right in the amendment written
a militia-related clause. And the way that -- the
way -- the way that the right might be incorporated in
respect to that is light years different from the way
it might be interpreted if you think what it is, is the
right to have a gun to shoot a burglar. They're just
two separate things.
And as to the first, it's pretty hard for me
to see why you'd incorporate it, for reasons I won't
go into. As to the second, I understand it. So we're
starting with a difference in purposes at the least.
And shouldn't that make a difference in how you
incorporate?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I mean, I guess what
I -- what I don't understand is why, given the way that
this Court wrestled in the Heller decision with how to
basically apply the operative clause in light of the
prefatory clause, why one would want to come to a
different conclusion --
JUSTICE BREYER: Because the -- one of the
reasons --
MR. CLEMENT: -- with respect to the States.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- at least, is that --
you've read, I'm sure, that all the law professors
at Harvard, Yale, Princeton, London, et cetera, that say
even Blackstone in the 17th century thought that this is
primarily a right to raise an army through Parliament
to -- well, I can't go on here. I'm just saying think
of that brief, and you'll see the differences, even
accepting Heller.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can respond if
you want, briefly.
MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I mean, obviously this Court was focused
very much on Blackstone's writings in the Heller
decision, and I think the majority read Blackstone
actually as being primarily concerned with the
self-defense right, which goes a long way to understand
why the Heller decision came out the way that it came
out.
And I would simply finish by noting that the
one thing that I think we can come to a conclusion about
Blackstone is the very fact that Blackstone dwelled on
the right is good evidence that it's a fundamental right
that should apply to the States.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Clement.
Mr. Feldman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. FELDMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. FELDMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Second Amendment should not be
incorporated and applied to the States because the right
it protects is not implicit in the concept of ordered
liberty. States and local governments have been the
primary locus of firearms regulation in this country for
the last 220 years.
Firearms, unlike anything else that is the
subject of a provision of the Bill of Rights, are
designed to injure and kill. And the very same features
that make firearms valuable for self-defense as the
Court noted in Heller also --
JUSTICE SCALIA: When is the last time an
opinion of ours made that the test, implicit in the
concept of ordered liberty? It sounds very nice. But
when is the last time we used it? I think it was 1937.
MR. FELDMAN: I don't believe it was, Your
Honor. The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Has it been the basis of
our decision in any case since Palko?
MR. FELDMAN: I think the -- the Court
has -- the Court has used the term in a number of cases.
Since then, it has used it in -- not in corporation cases
as recently as the Glucksberg case. It used it in Mapp.
It has used it in other cases, but I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it was also the Harlan
view, although a separate opinion in the Griswold case
and in Poe v. Ullman.
Do you think that it best describes the
approach that the Court has used over the years?
MR. FELDMAN: Yes, I do.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I was going to ask
Mr. Clement what test he thought the Court used. If
you looked at all the cases, you think implicit in
the concept of ordered liberty?
MR. FELDMAN: Yes, I do, and here's the
reason why. In 1833, this Court has held in Barron v.
Baltimore, in a -- in a ruling that Chief Justice
Marshall said was not a difficult one, although
important, that the Bill of Rights did not apply to the
States.
As far as I know, no justice has ever
disagreed with that -- with that ruling or suggested he
was wrong in so ruling. From -- it was -- the only
reason -- and when the Fourteenth Amendment was passed
and ratified in the late 1860s, again, the -- the
framers did not directly apply the Bill of Rights to the
States. They gave us some generalities.
And the Court has always understood that
when it's applying the Due Process Clause, what it asks
is not just is something in the Constitution, but is
this something that's so fundamental it's a necessary
condition --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is the right to trial by
jury implicit in the concept of ordered liberty?
MR. FELDMAN: I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: My goodness --
MR. FELDMAN: I think that it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- there are a lot of
countries that don't give the right to trial by jury,
even England does not give it in all criminal cases.
MR. FELDMAN: I think it is in the following
sense: When you're talking about a procedural right
that's embedded in a particular procedural system, you
have to look at how that system operates and how the --
the right works within that particular system.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think that's
exactly -- that's exactly right. And that is what the
Court elaborated on in Duncan. I do think the focus is
our system of ordered liberty, not any abstract system
of ordered liberty. You can say Japan is a free
country, but it doesn't have the right to trial by -- by
jury.
The -- the concept only makes sense,
I think, if you limit it to our system. Under our
system, as you said, the -- the right to a jury is
essential.
MR. FELDMAN: I -- I agree -- I -- I
think that's right. I was just distinguishing
between --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if you think
that's right, why wouldn't you think, for all the
reasons given in Heller, that the Second Amendment right
is essential to our system, whatever it may be with
respect to France or England or anywhere else?
MR. FELDMAN: The question that the Court
was addressing in Heller was not -- again, was not how
important the Second Amendment right was, or how
implicit it is in our system; it was what did it say and
what did the -- what restrictions did the framers of the
Second Amendment impose on the Federal Government.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I thought its
rationale was that because of its fundamental character,
the right to bear arms must be understood as separate
from the qualifying phrase of the militia clause, all
people, most people in the United States. The public
meaning of the Second Amendment was that there was an
individual right to bear arms, and that's because it was
fundamental. If it's not fundamental, then Heller is
wrong, it seems to me.
MR. FELDMAN: No, I -- I -- I don't think
that that's right. The question is what right -- what
did they impose upon the -- as restrictions upon the
government when the Second Amendment was ratified. And
as to that, it's not a question of whether it's
fundamental any more than with the Grand Jury Clause or
with the civil jury trial right --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't see how you
can read --
MR. FELDMAN: -- under the Seventh Amendment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't see how you can
read Heller and not take away from it the notion that the
Second Amendment, whether you'd want to label it
fundamental or not, was extremely important to the framers
in their view of what liberty meant.
MR. FELDMAN: I -- it was important, but
actually what Heller says is this: The Second Amendment
preexisted the -- its inclusion -- or the right that's
in the Second Amendment preexisted its inclusion in the
Bill of Rights. But the reason it was codified, the
reason it -- the reason it was put into the Bill of Rights
was because the framers were concerned about the Federal
Government disarming the militia.
The right of self-defense, which had been
previously recognized and highly valued, I would agree,
was -- had -- according to Heller, quote, "had little to
do with its codification" --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That may be --
MR. FELDMAN: -- with its inclusion in the
Constitution.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That may be the reason it
was put there. But it was put there.
MR. FELDMAN: That's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's the crucial fact.
It is either there or it is not there.
And if it's there, it doesn't seem to me to
make any difference why they chose to put that one there
as opposed to other ones that they didn't put there.
It's either there or not.
MR. FELDMAN: That -- I agree as far as the
Federal Government goes. But now there's a different
question being asked, and the Second Amendment in this
respect is unlike any of the other amendments that have
been incorporated.
The same -- very same reason why the
First -- the various rights in the First Amendment were
put there in 1791 is exactly the reason why it was
held -- why it was incorporated and applied to the
States under the Fourteenth amendment.
JUSTICE BREYER: So do we read the -- the
clause at the beginning -- the militia clause -- we're
supposed to read the words of the Constitution, aren't we?
I guess --
MR. FELDMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- the answer to that's yes.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. FELDMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you. Very well, and
doesn't that suggest what the purpose of putting the right
there is even under Heller or at least one purpose --
MR. FELDMAN: Well, that -- that --
JUSTICE BREYER: And does that not give us a
clue as to what they thought that --
MR. FELDMAN: That's what --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- the ordered liberty
was? That's your point?
MR. FELDMAN: That's what -- and that's what
Heller said. And here's the difference -- is, it is it
is now urged that this right is fundamental because of
its importance, the importance of firearms in
self-defense. That was true also in 1791, but it
wouldn't have been in the Constitution for that. That
had little to do with putting it in the Constitution.
This is a right that has always been subject to the
political process and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, sure, and it's
still going to be subject to the political process if
the Court determines that it's incorporated in the Due
Process Clause. All the arguments you make against
incorporation, it seems to me, are arguments you should
make in favor of regulation under the Second Amendment.
We haven't said anything about what the content of the
Second Amendment is beyond what was said in Heller.
MR. FELDMAN: That's -- that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And so the argument
you make is, well, given this context, you should not be
able to have concealed carry. Well, maybe that's
right, but that doesn't mean you don't incorporate the
Second Amendment to allow you to enforce that type of
regulation.
MR. FELDMAN: No, I don't think so. I think
-- the argument that I'm making is that States and local
governments under the political process, which as far as
we know, if the only issue had been self-defense, the
framers would have been satisfied to leave this to the
States and to leave this to the political process, and not
to put it in the Constitution -- that -- that -- that as
far as the right to self-defense goes, that's something
that has always been effectively regulated through the
political process and especially at the State and local
level. And through our history, as technology has
changed, State and local regulation has altered to draw
the balance that has to be drawn.
JUSTICE ALITO: And your position is that a
-- a State or local government could completely ban all
firearms?
MR. FELDMAN: If the State and local
government did that, I think would it raise two
questions. One question would be, there is always
review under the Due Process Clause and under the Equal
Protection Clause for provisions that are arbitrary.
And I'd want to know why a State had done that. It's
certainly relevant that in the last 220 years, no
State has done that or even come close, and, in fact, as
the briefs on the other side of the case from some of
the States show, they are quite in the opposite direction.
But the second point would be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I don't understand.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What is the due process
liberty --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What basis would there be
to -- to deny that?
MR. FELDMAN: Well, there's always --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Firearms kill people is
what the States say, and -- and we ban it.
MR. FELDMAN: Right, and that has --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Other countries have done
that.
MR. FELDMAN: It has not led to States doing
it in -- in this country. The second question --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But if they did do it, I
think you'd have to say it's perfectly okay.
MR. FELDMAN: No, the second -- there would
be two questions actually. One would be was this arbitrary,
or is that actually based on a reason that's --
a sound reason?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. The reason is guns are
dangerous.
MR. FELDMAN: The second argument would be,
the Court at that point, if in the very unlikely event a
that a State or local government tried to do that, then
the Court might have to wrestle at that point with the
question of the relationship between self-defense and
the right to keep and bear arms. In other words, this
Court has never said --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But would self-defense be
part of liberty under the Due -- substantive meaning of
the Due Process Clause?
MR. FELDMAN: I mean, if by that is, do you
have a substantive right to self-defense, the Court
actually has never answered that question, but I'm
willing to accept that there is such a right for --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you've given -- you
said there were two reasons. So you have given us both
in your answer to Justice Alito's question?
MR. FELDMAN: Yes, and -- and what I'd say
about the right to self-defense is, if -- if the
challenge -- if a State or local government banned all
firearms it might raise the question of, given that
there -- if there is a constitutional right to
self-defense, has the State prohibited you from
reasonable means of exercising that right? But that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Without repeating that and
just so I understand your position, how could some
member of the Court write the -- this opinion to say
that this right is not fundamental, but that Heller was
correct?
MR. FELDMAN: I -- the Court would just say
that what Heller held was if you look at the meanings
that the words in the Second Amendment had, the common
meaning -- as the Court said in the Heller opinion --
the common meanings that the word had in 1791, it
imposed limitation on the state. It took a preexisting
right that had not been -- it was not codified in the
Constitution, and it said, this self-defense right we
need in the Constitution in order -- in order to protect
the militia against being disarmed by the Federal
Government.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That sounds an awful
lot to me like the argument we heard in Heller on the
losing side.
MR. FELDMAN: Well, it's actually what the
Court said in its opinion. What the Court said in its
opinion is the reason it was codified was the concern
that the framers had with the -- that the Federal
Government might disarm the militia. Not self-defense.
Self-defense according to the Court in Heller, quote,
"had little to do with the codification of the right."
JUSTICE SCALIA: They said that is the
reason it was codified. They did not say that that is
the function of what was codified. The function of what
was codified was to enforce the traditional right of the
people to bear arms.
MR. FELDMAN: And that -- that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And to say that that wasn't
the reason it was codified doesn't say anything about
what it consists of.
MR. FELDMAN: That -- that's correct, and
I'm not arguing today about what it consists of, but the
point being that this was a right that had been -- that
the framers as far as we know would have been satisfied to
leave to the political process if it was just a question
of the feature of it. But today --
JUSTICE ALITO: Let me see if I understand
your argument. I thought you said a minute ago that if
a State or local government were to ban firearms
completely, this Court might hold that that violates
substantive due process because the right to use a
firearm for self-defense is -- might be held to be
implicit in the concept of ordered liberty; is that
right?
MR. FELDMAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: And -- but I thought you
began by saying that the right to keep and bear arms is
not implicit in the concept of ordered liberty.
MR. FELDMAN: The right to keep and bear
arms that was recognized -- I don't think actually the
right to keep and bear arms itself is. Perhaps the
right to self-defense is, and then like other rights,
similar rights, if the Court were to hold that that is
constitutionally protected, the question would be is the
State now giving you sufficient means to exercise that
right? Not whatever means you want, but sufficient means
so that you reasonably can exercise that right. I
would think that would be the only way that that kind of
analysis could go, if you start off from self-defense.
JUSTICE BREYER: But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Feldman, let me take
your argument at -- at its face value. Let's assume
that the only reason it is there and the only purpose it
serves is the militia purpose. Isn't that militia
purpose just as much defeated by allowing the States to
take away the militia's arms as it would be by allowing
the Federal Government to take away the militia's arms?
MR. FELDMAN: Yes, but I -- that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Then so --
MR. FELDMAN: But that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- even if you assume that
the whole thing turns around the militia prologue, that
prologue is just as -- just as important with respect to
the State's depriving the people of arms.
MR. FELDMAN: Yes, but I don't think the
argument -- the primary argument that's being made today,
that this is implicit in the concept of ordered liberty or
sufficiently fundamental or whichever other formulas --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're switching horses
now.
MR. FELDMAN: No, I'm not. No --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's just focus on your
argument that -- that -- that deals with the prologue.
You say this is different because of that prologue. But
that prologue has just as much force if the States take
away the militia's arms as if the Federal Government
does.
MR. FELDMAN: I -- I think that few people
today would say -- and in fact few people in 1868 would
say that the concern to protect the State militias is
something that's so fundamental or essential to a
concept of ordered liberty or central to our system that
it has to be --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, suppose it is.
MR. FELDMAN: -- protected --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- Suppose it is. Assume for
argument's sake that it is. Still, I take from what
you are saying that -- let's make up an imaginary
importance of ordered liberty chart, and we give it to
James Madison and the other framers. And he would say,
insofar as that right to bear arms is important for
the purpose of maintaining the militia, it's high on
the ordered liberty chart. Insofar as the right to bear
arms is there to shoot burglars, it's low on the ordered
liberty chart.
And if that's what they'd say, it's
conceivable that part of this amendment would go through
and be incorporated; namely, that part which would
prevent a law that would disarm people to the extent
they couldn't form militias. But that part which would
disarm people to the extent that they couldn't shoot
burglars, that would not be incorporated.
MR. FELDMAN: It -- that would be -- that
would be possible, but another -- another way to look at
it is that the question that the Court had -- the Court
has never answered the question, is this implicit in the
concept of ordered liberty or should this be
incorporated under any other test?
JUSTICE ALITO: But if we took the
approach that --
MR. FELDMAN: By just --
JUSTICE ALITO: If we took the approach
that Justice Breyer outlined, would -- why would we not do
the same thing with respect to all the applications of all
of the amendments that up to this point have been regarded
as being completely incorporated, along with all of our
decisions? So why would we not look at all of our
decisions under the First Amendment and the Fourth
Amendment and the Fifth Amendment and the Sixth
Amendment, and rank all of those interpretations on some
scale of ordered liberty?
MR. FELDMAN: I -- I don't think -- I don't
think the Court would. And what I was really responding
to Justice Breyer was, we understand that the Second
Amendment is in the Constitution and binds the Federal
Government, but it has always been understood, from 1868
on, that before an amendment applies to the States, you
need something more than just finding that it's in the
Constitution, and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, to get back to
Justice Breyer's point, which I'm not sure you answered,
is your theory that you simply -- it's not a question of
is it in or is it out? But you're saying, well, what is
in and what is out, are you?
MR. FELDMAN: No, I -- actually my -- excuse
me. My answer to the question would be it's -- I think
it's out, because all that shows is the framers certainly
had --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think it's in
or out, right?
MR. FELDMAN: I think that -- I think the
best argument is that it's out, for this reason:
When the framers --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I -- I know your
reasons.
MR. FELDMAN: Okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm trying to get
you to take a position on whether or not you want us to
not only pick and choose among which amendments are part
of our abstract notion of ordered liberty, or if you
want us also to take amendments that might be in and
refine them and shave them off a little bit and say,
well, this part of the amendment is in, and this part
isn't.
MR. FELDMAN: No, that's not the argument
that we're making.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So your
argument is all in or all out.
MR. FELDMAN: The argument that we're making --
yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MR. FELDMAN: The argument that we're --
JUSTICE BREYER: Step one -- step one is
make my chart. Step two is look at what's high. Step
three is, even though that high part, even that high part,
nobody could think was incorporated.
MR. FELDMAN: I -- in our view, the things
that the framers -- the framers had their reasons for
putting --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's how you think
Madison went about his job?
(Laughter.)
MR. FELDMAN: No. No, I think that --
JUSTICE BREYER: He did, actually.
He did. That's how he went about it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm asking counsel.
Do you think that's how Madison went about
his job?
MR. FELDMAN: I think the framers had
reasons to put everything in the Constitution that they
put in it. But the question about whether it should be
incorporated against the States is a different question
than whether they put it in the Constitution.
And what you have in the Second Amendment
-- and it's right clear on the face of it from the
prologue; it's clear -- it's clear from the opinion in
Heller -- is the reason they put it in the Constitution is
not the primary reason why people today are arguing that
this is a right that -- that is so fundamental that it
has to be applied against the States.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Feldman, our
selective incorporation doctrine under the Due Process
Clause does suggest that there are some rights that were
fundamental enough to be incorporated and some that are
fundamental, but not fundamental enough to be
incorporated. We've drawn a line.
Is it the ordered liberty concept alone in
our jurisprudence that you are relying upon, or is it
any other articulation of our incorporation doctrine
that supports your view?
MR. FELDMAN: I think that's the underlying
standard, but the Court has certainly looked at our
history and our traditions in answering this question,
and I think they are relevant in this area, as they were
--
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Chief says: Yes, if
we look at it, we have to look at it in the context of
our history, our structure. So address his question as
to why --
MR. FELDMAN: I would say that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- in our structure or
our history, it's not fundamental enough --
MR. FELDMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- to incorporate.
MR. FELDMAN: Yes, and I think it's -- I
think it's not. We have discussed already 1791, and the
reasons why -- the reasons even that the framers thought
that -- well, I've already discussed that. I don't want
to go into it again.
The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Eleven of the colonies had
a guarantee at the time the Constitution was
adopted, and I believe something like 44 States
currently have in their constitutions protection of the
right to bear arms.
MR. FELDMAN: I -- I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does that suggest anything
about -- about how fundamental it is generally?
MR. FELDMAN: I -- what the Court actually said
in Heller was that there were two States at the time, in
1791, that had a firearms right, and with -- there were
possibly two more where the evidence was a little bit
more ambiguous.
As far as today, it is true that 44 States
have some kind of recognition of a right to keep and
bear arms. Now, some of those States -- a couple of
them, at least, two to four -- recognize that only in
connection with the militia, and it's really quite
different from the right that this Court recognized in
Heller. Many other of the rights that are recognized in
State constitutions include provisions that really would
be unheard of, and that actually point to the reasons
why this is not fundamental, like, say, freedom of
speech or freedom of religion. They have provisions
that say: Subject to such regulation as the legislature
may prescribe, or the like.
And that points out the other difference.
Because firearms are -- the same features that make them
useful for self-defense make them also useful as
instruments of violent crime, suicide, and accidental
death. Their -- regulation of these items has -- is a
part of our tradition and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: "Subject to such
regulation" certainly excludes banning them entirely,
which is what you assert can be done.
MR. FELDMAN: No, I think that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the purpose of a
State constitutional guarantee which has at the end of
it "subject to such regulation as the legislature may
proscribe," if that regulation includes banning it
entirely? That --
MR. FELDMAN: With that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- would make a nullity
of the constitutional requirement.
MR. FELDMAN: The overwhelming consensus
among the State courts in interpreting the wide variety
of different types of provisions that they have is that
it imposes a reasonable regulation standard that is not
violated by banning a particular weapon or a particular
class of weapons, as long as you are allowing some kind
of firearm, and that is not the right that this Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And is that what you're
asserting here --
MR. FELDMAN: -- recognized in Heller.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that the States have
to allow firearms?
MR. FELDMAN: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that --
MR. FELDMAN: I -- I didn't think I was.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't think so, either,
so --
MR. FELDMAN: No. What I'm --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- why does your last argument
make any sense?
MR. FELDMAN: No, what I'm saying -- I'm
sorry. What I'm saying is that the right that is
embodied in the wide variety of different State
constitutions -- the overwhelming consensus is that what
the States have determined as a result of their own
processes and in light of their own conditions is that
you can't ban all kinds of firearms, but you can ban
some kinds of firearms.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's fine.
MR. FELDMAN: And that is -- and the kinds
of firearms that have traditionally been banned --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We said as much in Heller.
MR. FELDMAN: Right. Well -- and the
kinds of firearms that have traditionally been banned by
the States and that actually the period around the time
of the Fourteenth Amendment is a good period to look.
At or around that time, there are numerous States that
had regulations barring the carrying and even that go up
to the point of possession of pistols and Bowie knives,
which are not firearms, but are also arms under the
Second Amendment, and so on.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, all those
may be perfectly valid today, or -- if the Court
incorporates the Second Amendment. Incorporation
doesn't say anything by itself about whether those types
of regulations, which you think are reasonable and your
friends think may not be reasonable, are valid or not.
MR. FELDMAN: I think the Court in Heller
did hold that a ban on -- a ban on handguns is invalid.
That was the holding of the case. And these are --
these were laws that were passed that are very close to
that. In the 1860s and the 1870s, in Texas, in
Wyoming, places that -- not necessarily for the whole
State --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Handguns in the home?
MR. FELDMAN: They --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Handguns in the home?
That's what Heller addressed.
MR. FELDMAN: They banned -- I -- well,
not -- I can't say that they banned handguns in the home
per --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, you can't, because they
didn't.
MR. FELDMAN: But if you look at the
decision -- no, if you look at -- actually, if you
look at the decisions, some of them banned the sale;
they banned carrying them anywhere in the jurisdiction,
and in such a way that -- and some of the judicial
decisions even say: This was intended to eliminate
these weapons from our jurisdiction. And they were
generally upheld at that time.
Now, those were responding to local
conditions at the time, and generally, the history of
firearms regulation, because of the risk that firearms
pose, has been that in this country, it has been widely
recognized that in many places it's appropriate to carry
firearms. And many jurisdictions have found, and
reasonably found, that allowing broad use, carriage, and
whatever of firearms is appropriate, but there are some
jurisdictions that have found that's not to be the case,
throughout our history.
And that has been a State and local decision
that has worked through the political process in those
jurisdictions. And that political process here is
another distinction between the Second Amendment and
some of the other amendments that have been
incorporated -- is that one basis, I think, for
incorporating the other amendments and for applying them
against the States has been that there is a concern
about a discrete minority or a highly unpopular view
that's not going to get a fair shake in the political
process. I don't think that has ever been the case
here. And as far as I know, the framers didn't think
that was the case with respect to the right to keep and
bear arms.
It's a right that gets controlled in
accordance with local conditions, with local cultures,
and with local views about the necessarily difficult
questions about how best to protect public safety. That
is -- that has been a part of our -- of our history
since 1860, since --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But there -- but there are
provisions of the Constitution, of the Bill of Rights,
that have been incorporated against the States, where
the States have substantial latitude and ample authority
to impose reasonable regulations, rights respecting --
rights respecting property, the Cruel and Unusual
Punishment Clause. We look to see what the political
process does. We look to see -- why can't we do the
same thing with firearms?
MR. FELDMAN: Well, it's just that the end
-- I have really two points I'd like to make about that.
One is the analysis the Court used in Heller. In
Heller, what the Court said is: This is not the time to
balance things; you cannot ban handguns.
Now, there may be local -- there have been
local jurisdictions before and there are now ones where
they feel allowing some firearms, but banning handguns,
is the best way to achieve public safety and to increase
the zone of ordered liberty for their people. And those
things would be apparently impermissible under Heller.
But even more than that, Heller construed
the Second Amendment's "bear" -- the word "bear," "to
keep and bear arms" -- to mean the same thing as "carry"
in this Court's case in Muscarello, much later. And to
carry -- generally to carry.
Many -- there's a long history of
regulation of not just concealed carry, as the Court did
recognize in Heller, but of banning open carry
in a variety of jurisdictions. Again, generally, it's
someplace that is -- it has a particular problem; it's a
city or something like that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you think there is
existing authority with reference to other provisions of
the Bill of Rights that would allow us to incorporate
just the core of Heller with respect to the States?
Just the core of the Second Amendment with respect to
the States, along the lines to this question Justice
Stevens was asking earlier?
MR. FELDMAN: Well, I think that there would
be --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And if so, what's -- what
case do we look to for that proposition?
MR. FELDMAN: I think really this -- I
cannot offhand think of a case that would lead you to
that -- would lead to that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: If you look to Justice
Harlan's dissent in Griswold, where he says the
Fourteenth Amendment stands on its own bottom and it can
be either more or less than the provisions of the Bill of
Rights, and there's no reason in the world why this
Court could not adopt the same position here and say:
Insofar it's incorporated, it applies only within the
home. The Court had ample precedent for that.
MR. FELDMAN: And actually the other point I
make is if you approach it from the other point of view,
the case has not been made here -- it hasn't even been
brought -- that the City of Chicago is denying people
the -- the right to have any kind of firearm or the
right to have any kind of reasonable means of
self-defense.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Is it
the position of the City of Chicago that we should rely
on Justice Harlan's dissent in Griswold?
MR. FELDMAN: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then your
answer to Justice Stevens is no, you're not going to
follow that approach, right?
MR. FELDMAN: No, what I would say is that
-- what I would say is that if the Court -- what I was
saying is that if the Court approaches it from the
standpoint of perhaps if there is -- if the Court
chooses in an appropriate case to recognize a
fundamental right to self-defense, it would then raise
those kinds of questions. And someone could make the
case that they are being denied any right to
self-defense or any reasonable right to exercise
self-defense because of a jurisdiction's firearms
regulations; the Court could address that. That's not a
claim that has been made in this case; that's not a
claim that could be made in this case because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: See, the right to keep and
bear arms is right there. It's right there in the Bill
of Rights. Where do you find the right to self-defense?
MR. FELDMAN: Well, I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you want us to
impose that one on the States but not -- not the
explicit guarantee of the right to keep and bear arms.
That seems very strange.
MR. FELDMAN: No, actually I -- I don't want
to impose that on the States. I think it's very
unlikely that the Court would ever be called upon to,
because our history for the last 200 years -- 220 years
had been of reasonable State and local regulation of
firearms that responds to local conditions, to local
threats of violence, and so on that occur. And I don't
see any reason to think that there will be a
jurisdiction that would try to sufficiently ban firearms
that people wouldn't have a reasonable means of
self-defense.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The District of Columbia
did. That's what Heller said.
MR. FELDMAN: Well, the District of Columbia
in any event is controlled by Second Amendment as it --
as it's written. That's not the question in this case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would you be happy if we
incorporated it and said reasonable regulation is part
of the incorporation? And how do we do that?
MR. FELDMAN: Well, there is the reasonable
regulation standard. There's an article by Professor
Winkler that we cite in our brief, that goes very
extensively through the ways that State courts have
dealt with their own rights to keep and bear arms and
have adopted, really by overwhelming consensus, that
kind of a reasonable regulation standard, which
generally recognizes --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that Heller --
Heller allowed for reasonable regulation.
MR. FELDMAN: Excuse me.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that the Heller
decision allowed for reasonable regulation, and it gave a
few examples, as Justice Scalia mentioned.
MR. FELDMAN: Right. Well, it's just our
view would be that what Chicago has done here, which is
permit you to have a -- permit you to have long guns but
ban handguns, is the kind of regulation that throughout
our history jurisdictions in their own -- that are most
familiar with their own particular needs, their own
particular problems, and in a position to balance the --
the need for self-defense with the risks to the use of
firearms -- for violence, for accidental death, and for
suicide -- that the City of Chicago has come up with
something that is well within our tradition. And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What you're urging is
really a mixed blessing for gun control advocates. To
the extent we sever the Federal guarantee from what the
States are obliged to comport with, we encourage a
stricter Federal Second Amendment, one that forbids all
sorts of regulations that the Federal Government might
otherwise be allowed to do, because it doesn't matter --
the States can take care of it.
I mean, you know, if -- if you sever the
two, you're encouraging a broader prohibition at the
Federal level, and that's what -- Heller was very
careful not to impose such a broad prohibition
precisely because it realized that -- that this is a
national problem.
MR. FELDMAN: I -- I think that, if I may --
that the restriction that the Second Amendment imposes
on the Federal Government should be and is controlled by
what the meaning of that Second Amendment was in 1791.
It shouldn't vary one way or the other with whether
there's incorporation against the States.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Gura, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ALAN GURA
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. GURA: Sure.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Counsel, at the -- at the
very outset of your argument, Justice Sotomayor asked the
question which, as I understood it, essentially said what
are examples of privileges and immunities that are being
denied by the States that -- which denial would be
remedied by following your proposal to overrule the
Slaughter-House case?
And let's leave the Second Amendment out.
Let's assume the Second Amendment is a wash; it's either
going to be incorporated or not going to be incorporated
the same -- to the same extent under either the Privileges
or Immunities Clause or the Due Process Clause. Leaving
the Due Process -- the Second Amendment out of it, what
privileges and immunities are now being denied citizens
of -- of the United States?
MR. GURA: Well, apart from the Second
Amendment right, which is being denied to people in the
United States by Chicago at least, there are other
rights -- other rights enumerated in the first eight
amendments that were thought to be the personal guarantees
as well as certain unenumerated rights which were
understood to be part of --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What are examples of
those? The jury trial in civil cases?
MR. GURA: The jury trial --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And grand jury. What
else?
MR. GURA: There's not much left, Your
Honor. Those are the only two provisions of the Bill of
Rights that have not been held incorporated under due
process, which informs us that perhaps we should have
the Second Amendment incorporated. There's no reason
to treat it any differently. With respect to the
unenumerated rights that perhaps are not being --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you are saying that
under -- under your view, every State would have to use a
grand jury to bring criminal charges; no more information.
And that every State would have to have a civil jury, if
any party in the case requested it. Is that --
MR. GURA: Yes -- well, it's not just what
we're saying; it's what the framers of the Constitution
said. And as Justice Scalia noted in Apprendi, the right
to a jury trial, for example, may not be efficient, but
it is free.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's a criminal case;
that's quite different.
MR. GURA: That's right. We're talking
about the Grand Jury Clause; we have 28 States right now
out of the 50 that allow prosecutors to pursue felony
charges without indictment by a grand jury, but the
other 22 States do require it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm -- we're using
up your time. But --
MR. GURA: Sure.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- do you want me to leave
the bench thinking grand jury indictment and civil trial
and jury case -- that's it. There's no other -- what are
these other unenumerated rights?
MR. GURA: We can't give a full description
of all unenumerated rights that are going to be
protected by the Fourteenth Amendment. Either --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't trouble you.
MR. GURA: No, it does not, and it shouldn't
trouble the Court because the Court addresses due
process cases all the time without saying we're --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, does it include the
right to contract?
MR. GURA: The right to contract --
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that an unenumerated
right?
MR. GURA: That is literally understood by
the framers to be an unenumerated right under the
privileged immunities. We know that because in the
Civil Rights Act of 1866, that's the very first right
that they mentioned as something that people in the South
should be enjoying, because they were not allowed to
pursue a livelihood.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your approach --
your original approach would give judges a lot more
power and flexibility in determining what rights they
think are a good idea than they have now with the
constraints of the Due Process Clause.
MR. GURA: No, Your Honor; our approach
might actually provide judges with perhaps no more than
what they have now, perhaps even less, because our
approach is rooted in text and history. It's not a
license for judges to make up unenumerated rights that
they believe --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Privileges and
immunities give you a lot more flexibility than due
process, because it's not limited to procedural --
where you don't have to deal with the hurdle that it's
limited to procedural by the text.
MR. GURA: Sure. If I may?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, you may.
MR. GURA: Thanks. We believe that it's
more limited because that -- that text had a specific
understanding and that there are guideposts left behind
in texts and history that tell us how to apply it, unlike
the due process. But at least we know one thing, which
is that, in 1868, the right to keep and bear arms was
understood to be a privilege or immunity of citizenship,
and if the Court is considering watering down the Second
Amendment, perhaps it should look to text and history.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. GURA: Thanks.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:16 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
65:25 allow 37:4 51:18 22:6 25:12 applying 31:14 army 28:15
42:23 51:12 26:3 56:4 45:2,4 57:12 asked 11:17
amendment 4:3 ample 55:11 appropriately assembly 22:3
12:20,24 13:5 announced 15:9 argue 7:9 assume 42:19
19:20,22,23,25 39:20 46:3 41:14 48:5 assuming 6:18
57:8 23:22,23 24:8 48:20 36:25 37:7 56:15
49:15 27:13,14 29:16 apparent 20:11 41:20 42:19 a.m 1:13 3:2
31:9 32:22 apparently 56:2 43:8,8,15 46:9 65:24
34:2,6,8 APPEARAN... 47:4 51:25 B
35:6,10,13 1:14 61:13,17 back 23:25 24:1
34:14 40:10 44:14 25:7 36:19,20 27:4,4 45:22
45:10,11,11,12 applications argument's 44:4 badly 5:2
48:1 52:17,22 applied 20:14 10:5 12:8,17 55:21 60:10
3:7 61:13 56:18 57:5 48:7 33:8,12 39:9 Baltimore 31:2
37:19 62:3,7,22 64:1 apply 12:2 14:1 43:18 44:8,11 41:21 52:8,8
55:21
60:7 29:23 31:4,11 burglar 27:19 century 28:14 9:18,19 62:4
53:15 56:16 57:6 44:19 9:22,22 62:11 3:23 8:7,23
58:14 62:19 certainly 20:2,5 22:7 65:17
51:2,11 bit 18:22,25 C 2:1 3:1 38:3 46:4 15:24,24 16:9
56:10 24:22 46:19 called 58:23 48:19 50:21 16:12 56:13
28:14,24 29:6 careful 61:1 challenging 33:21 62:14
26:3 Blackstone's carriage 54:9 changed 37:17 civilized 10:11
blessing 60:16 17:5 22:19 charges 63:2,15 58:12
38:11 bootstrap 5:5 56:7,7,9,10 47:6 clarity 15:14
bottom 57:5 carrying 22:21 Chicago 1:6 3:5 class 51:12
33:8,12 boundaries 53:23 57:14,19 60:5 6:2,3,7,19
41:8 42:4 15:17,19 case 3:4 4:13 60:13 62:8 11:20 12:6,14
44:8,10 Bowie 52:20 11:15 15:2 Chicago's 3:11 18:12 20:5
50:3 Breyer 14:7,12 16:2 18:11 Chief 3:3,9 4:6 21:25 23:18
56:4,4,5 15:11,21 16:8 19:7,11,14 13:1,11,19 24:13,15 27:15
59:19 27:7,10 28:8 21:9,12,25 18:2,8 25:2,10 28:5,6 31:14
28:11 35:14,19 22:4,22 23:20 28:19,21 29:9 33:9,20 35:15
3:8 47:16 54:11,23,25 40:19 45:22 55:14 62:2,2
29:13 Breyer's 45:23 56:6,24 57:1 46:6,11,14,24 63:13 64:22
brief 10:7 28:17 57:13 58:4,7 47:3,12,18 clear 48:2,3,3
49:15 briefly 28:20 61:22 63:4,10 57:18,22 61:11 Clement 1:17
briefs 14:14 63:22 65:22,24 64:18 65:4,10 2:5 14:9 18:3,4
broad 18:22 19:14,17,19 choose 46:16 24:11,19 25:9
60:24 30:11,12,14,23 Circuit 7:18,19 28:2,10,21
23:19 burden 4:9 7:11 categories 8:16 cited 22:14 clue 36:3
27:1 Bureau 4:2 caused 4:18 citizens 3:19 5:5 codification
41:3 confront 25:15 contemporane... 26:10 28:4,22 dealt 23:18
40:14,24 confronts 25:14 content 36:22 30:11,19,22 death 50:18
confusion 23:1 context 13:2 31:1,13 32:8 60:12
connection 50:5 64:7,8 40:5,8,11,23 16:3 17:7
29:5 38:4 consensus 4:14 contrary 4:7 42:10 44:22,22 10:8 13:16
51:7 52:5 7:10 45:15 48:19 14:20,20
consequence controlled 55:2 51:13 52:24 11:13 15:10
consider 10:9 core 14:1 15:17 58:1,2,3,10,23 53:21 54:13
37:20 65:18 correct 5:14 court's 3:14 53:22,25
45:8 consists 41:12 11:9 16:21 7:25 15:9 decisis 4:12
56:9 3:21 16:5,6 correctly 4:15 56:6 definition 6:19
31:15 34:19 18:2 47:18 crime 16:17 demand 20:17
30:4,24 37:12 40:15,16 countries 31:24 criminal 18:20 denied 58:7
32:13 45:17,21 47:22 38:17 21:9,9,14 24:3 61:20 62:4,7
42:5 47:25 48:4 country 9:21 31:25 63:2,10 deny 38:12
44:24 49:14 55:9 10:10 12:22 crucial 34:23 denying 57:14
63:6 29:20 32:11 Cruel 55:13 depend 22:8
4:16 5:6 16:25 counts 23:16 21:25 22:5,6 descendants
54:20 39:25 50:25 course 4:6 21:3 cultures 55:3 describes 30:18
constitutionally court 1:1,12 63:24
constitutions 4:22 7:16,16 D 1:17 2:5 3:1 detail 26:13
55:3 59:1 3:14 18:9 19:4 20:3 darling 7:9 determines
27:7,10 doing 23:17 eliminate 53:25 10:13 63:8 favored 20:25
38:19 embedded 32:3 examples 8:15 21:6
36:8 domestic 14:18 embodied 52:4 60:3 61:19 feature 41:18
don't 23:1 embrace 8:7 62:13 features 29:24
drawn 37:18 encourage 60:18 exclusionary Federal 13:25
21:4 due 3:12 6:1,8 60:24 excuse 46:2 15:8 18:19,19
27:17 6:12 7:2,12,17 enforce 3:21 59:25 20:18 23:5,10
35:5 7:19 11:8,21 8:24 37:4 41:7 exercise 42:12 23:11 25:5,14
47:24 12:11 13:10,15 England 10:13 42:14 58:8 33:5 34:11
51:9 52:4 18:12 19:18 31:25 32:24 exercising 40:2 35:5 40:17,25
20:4,14,22 English 23:25 existence 22:9 42:24 43:18
31:14 36:18 enjoying 64:16 56:15 60:20,25 61:6
55:4 39:12,13 41:23 entire 12:2 15:13 17:21 Feldman 1:20
dwelled 29:6 envision 5:11 extent 10:24 34:5,18,22
especially 4:15 62:1 36:1,4,7,24
easier 6:6,10,13 13:3 32:16,23 face 42:19 48:2 41:13 42:2,6
efficient 63:8 18:6 20:9,9 faculty 7:3 47:4,9,15,21
62:9 59:10 familiar 60:9 50:23 51:4,7
20:19 34:24 29:7 49:24 far 19:1 25:20 52:2,11,14
59:9 form 44:17 43:10,23 48:6 29:7 52:17 60:6
60:4 formulas 43:10 48:11,12,12 64:21 Gura 1:15 2:3
forth 19:20 49:4,20 50:10 goodness 31:21 2:11 3:6,7,9
four 50:4 G 3:1 33:18 34:12 8:11 9:7,13,17
57:15 57:5 64:1 59:22 60:20 61:6 15:8,16 16:3
18:13 19:13,25 5:16 7:23 8:9 25:15 29:19 17:11,16,19
37:21 23:22 25:25 8:10 9:4,11,14 37:8 27:9 61:12,13
39:24 26:2,3 45:10 10:2,16 11:17 grand 4:19 61:15 62:6,15
49:23 framers 5:14 59:23 60:1 33:20 62:16 62:18 63:5,12
51:18 8:11 10:25 62:25 63:10 63:2,13,15,21 63:19,24 64:3
16:5 31:11 gist 20:23 great 4:14 9:20 64:8,11,23
54:5,5,8 33:4 34:3,11 give 5:23 6:18 15:12 17:7 65:9,11,21
55:16,24 37:10 40:25 8:24 31:24,25 greater 9:21
59:1,4 41:16 44:7 36:2 44:6 17:23 H
46:4,10 47:10 63:24 64:19 Griswold 30:16 handguns 15:22
10:15 54:24 63:6 given 28:3 32:22 grown 5:4 55:21,24 60:7
14:23 64:12 37:1 39:18,19 guarantee 3:20 happens 11:7
19:20 France 32:24 39:24 20:1 23:11,12 happy 7:16
21:16,22 free 4:4 10:4,4 giving 9:21 23:24 26:3 59:12
23:22 10:11,13,18,18 42:12 49:14 50:25 hard 27:21
27:4 10:20 14:24,25 gloss 24:14 58:19 60:17 Harlan 26:11,13
15:1 32:10 Glucksberg guaranteed 3:24 26:19 27:5
45:10 63:9 11:15 21:1 8:13 18:15 30:15
64:14 freedom 50:10 30:13 guarantees 4:5 Harlan's 26:25
free-flowing 26:21,25 27:4 62:10 Harvard 28:13
full 5:24 63:24 goes 29:1 35:5 guideposts 6:4 held 31:1 35:12
fundamental 4:4 23:2,9 25:13 14:16 27:19 Heller 15:10,11
29:7 31:16 30:21 36:17 guns 12:16 17:21 22:22
64:23 impossible 5:23 63:15,21 47:20
36:8,23 honored 4:4 6:1 individual 33:12 Johnson's 8:22
horses 43:11 include 4:4 50:8 information Jonge 22:4,13
48:4 human 15:3,24 64:6 63:2 jot 18:18
50:7 hundred 15:24 included 5:10,18 informs 62:21 Judge 11:9
52:13 16:1 5:19 inherit 8:25 judges 10:23
55:19 hundreds 14:16 includes 51:2 injure 29:24 14:21 15:4,6,8
56:2,3 16:10 including 14:16 injustice 4:17 17:14,15 64:19
59:8 hunting 15:23 14:17 insofar 44:8,10 64:24 65:2
60:1 hurdle 65:7 inclusion 34:7,8 57:9 judgment 3:14
34:18 instances 20:19 judicial 53:24
idea 64:21 26:1,3 27:22 50:17 18:21
identify 4:24 56:16 interesting 53:23 54:1
illustration 25:1 13:3,6,7 19:3,4 interests 25:5 jurisdictions
54:21 imaginary 44:5 21:18 25:4,8 interpretation 55:23 56:11
6:19 8:6 11:19 44:25 45:8 interpreted jurisprudence
24:1 61:19 62:2,4 48:13 54:18 interpreting 19:5 20:6,12
37:16 64:13 65:5 55:10 57:9 51:8 21:19,25 22:19
49:4 immunity 65:17 59:13 61:25,25 intruders 12:4 23:2,4,6,7,13
55:6 impermissible 62:20,22 invalid 53:5 23:20 24:14,17
58:24 56:2 incorporates involving 19:14 24:22,24,25
65:1,14 implicit 29:18 18:18 52:25 issue 17:20 37:9 25:19,22 26:8
30:3,23 31:19 incorporating issues 25:17 48:15
42:10 42:5 43:9 20:6 22:1,3 it's 6:1,5,13 21:9,14 24:3
44:23 23:12,16 54:19 18:21 36:18 31:19,24 32:12
important 10:9 18:22 19:14 I'd 38:2 39:21 63:2,3,8,13,15
13:21 17:12 20:24 21:1 55:18 63:21,22
33:2 34:3,5 24:13,13,16,17 51:24 4:17 5:1,3,7,13
impose 33:5,17 36:20 48:9,16 6:22,24 7:8,15
14:6 61:1 61:9 James 1:20 2:8 9:11,14 10:2
20:20 imposed 40:13 increase 55:25 29:12 44:7 10:16 11:3,7
62:19 imposes 51:10 indictment Japan 32:10 11:11,16,17,25
job 11:5 47:13
13:1 59:23 60:1,3 language 8:12 45:13 46:17 looked 30:23
14:7 60:15 61:11,16 19:18 48:14 56:1 48:19
15:11,21 61:17 62:13,16 large 9:5,7 13:16 license 10:23 looking 16:3
62:25 63:7,10 late 31:10 65:2 lords 10:14
63:17,20 64:2 latitude 55:11 life 15:1,1,2,3,4 losing 40:21
64:6,9,18 65:4 Laughter 7:4,14 light 27:17 28:5 lot 10:4 14:25
19:6,10 65:10,20,22 15:15 35:20 52:7 16:14 22:21
20:13 Justice's 13:20 47:14 lightly 24:14 31:23 40:20
24:2,11 justify 24:8 law 3:21 4:8 6:8 limit 32:14 64:19 65:5
25:2 7:1,3,5 9:19 limitation 40:13 lots 14:17
26:6,9 K 14:16 20:8 limited 12:8 low 44:11
keep 5:10,18 21:12 28:12 65:6,8,12 lower 3:14 7:16
10:5 12:3,3 44:16 line 21:8 48:13
27:4 39:9 42:4,6,8 laws 17:6 53:7 lines 56:19 M
28:8 50:2 54:25 lead 57:1,2 list 5:24 Madison 44:7
56:5 58:13,19 lease 8:25 listed 8:23 47:13,19
30:2,8 59:19 65:16 leave 37:10,11 literally 11:1 maintaining
31:2 keeping 18:19 41:17 61:23 15:19 21:7 44:9
KENNEDY 63:20 64:11 majority 26:9,14
33:6 13:19 30:15,21 Leaving 62:2 little 34:15 28:24
34:17 33:6 38:9 led 38:19 36:13 41:3 making 13:10
35:14 39:11,18 40:3 left 7:5 11:2 46:19 49:24 37:7 46:23
55:8 56:14,23 62:18 65:13 livelihood 64:17 47:1
61:16 62:13,16 legislation 8:20 lives 15:25 16:10 mandates 3:16
38:8,9 63:17,20 legislature 17:9 16:16 Mapp 19:8,10
Kennedy's 17:19 50:12 local 29:19 37:7 19:13 25:1,23
18:17 51:1 37:15,17,20,22 30:13
41:4 kill 29:24 38:14 legislatures 39:6,23 41:21 March 1:9
42:3 killed 14:15 14:20 15:5 54:3,13 55:3,3 married 9:14,17
43:1 kind 8:1 26:4 17:18 55:4,22,23 Marshall 31:3
42:15 50:2 lesser 13:7 58:25 59:1,1 Maryland 10:7
45:1,4,5 51:12 57:15,16 let's 26:7 42:19 locus 29:20 matter 1:11 4:16
59:21 60:7 43:14 44:5 logic 22:16 14:19 16:2,9
kinds 52:8,9,11 61:23,24 logical 22:18 60:21 65:25
52:15 58:6 level 9:21 10:12 London 28:13 matters 17:6
48:8,23 knives 52:20 37:16 60:25 long 15:18 29:1 McDonald 1:3
know 5:18 6:18 liberty 5:2 12:6 51:12 56:8 3:4,18
51:5 7:2 14:14 17:5 12:13 13:4 60:6 mean 5:17 7:2,8
19:2 21:21 19:19,19,21 look 14:13,13,14 10:3 13:6 17:6
52:10,13 24:12 25:17 20:3,4 29:19 15:22 32:4 19:9 24:13
53:11,13 31:6 37:9 38:2 30:4,24 31:19 40:9 44:21 25:1 28:2,22
55:8 41:16 46:11 32:9,10 34:4 45:9 47:6 37:3 39:14
54:24 60:23 36:5 38:10 48:24,24 52:17 56:5 60:23
64:13 65:15 39:12 41:25 53:20,21,22 meaning 4:18
58:13 42:5 43:9,24 55:14,15 56:24 33:11 39:12
59:7,12 44:6,10,12,24 57:3 65:19
necessarily opposed 19:15 44:17 46:16,20 piece 8:20
53:9 55:4 opposite 38:6 50:19 55:6 place 7:3 21:11
59:5 necessary 31:16 oral 1:11 2:2 3:7 59:13 62:12 places 53:9 54:7
45:20 60:11 29:18 30:4,24 parties 8:24 Poe 30:17
17:5 needs 60:9 36:5 41:25 party 13:13 63:4 38:7 39:5,7
64:15 neither 12:8 42:5 43:9,24 passed 31:9 53:7 41:15 45:7,23
35:15 39:16 44:23 45:13 46:17 8:1 57:11,12
41:1 New 13:6 20:8 48:14 56:1 PAUL 1:17 2:5 points 22:23
43:4 nice 30:4 ordinances 3:11 18:4 50:14 55:18
50:5 Ninth 11:12 original 6:14 penny 26:5 policy 16:6
18:21 21:9 origins 23:24 9:20 10:21 36:17 37:8,11
43:18 noted 30:1 63:7 ought 4:10 14:15 15:18 54:14,15,22
notion 10:3 34:1 24:22 23:24 33:10,10 population 9:5,7
observed 11:12 51:7 52:5 period 26:11 possibly 49:24
opinion 15:5 parks 25:18 61:14 18:14 22:8
18:5 22:7 40:5,11,23,24 10:14 28:15 pick 46:16 prefatory 28:6
61:3 48:3 part 12:23 15:19 picks 19:20,21 prerogative 7:24
Products 17:22 55:14 ratified 3:15 50:6,7 51:16
professors 28:12 42:22 44:9 rationale 33:7 reconsider
43:8 prohibition purposes 12:11 read 21:5 28:12 reference 13:22
60:24 61:1 27:24 28:24 33:23 56:15
5:9,11,21 proposition putting 24:21 59:20 60:16 regulating 4:21
6:2,7,11 15:16 56:24 35:24 36:13 reason 3:13 regulation 29:20
8:6 11:19 proscribe 51:2 47:11 13:17 22:5,5 36:21 37:5,17
21:24 prosecutors 31:1,9 34:9,10 50:12,18,21
61:19 63:14 Q 34:10,20 35:9 51:1,2,10 54:5
65:4 protect 9:20 qualifying 33:9 35:11 38:25 56:9 58:25
55:5 11:17 13:20,21 41:5,11 42:20 60:2,7
10:9 11:19,20 33:16,19 35:6 57:7 59:3 52:19 53:2
44:2 64:1 41:17 42:11 51:10 53:2,3 rejected 10:5
32:2,3 protection 9:9 44:22,23 45:24 55:12 57:16 relationship
9:21 10:15 46:3 47:23,24 58:8,25 59:5 39:8
7:12,17 49:16 59:11 61:18 60:2 relevant 38:3
11:8,21 protects 18:14 questions 16:19 reasonably 48:21
13:10,15 29:18 37:24 38:24 42:14 54:9 relied 4:19,20,21
19:18 provide 64:24 55:5 58:6 reasons 27:22 22:3
provision 8:17 quibble 19:12 28:9 32:22 religion 50:11
24:15 19:7 29:23 19:24 39:19 46:12 rely 57:19
36:15,17 provisions 19:1 quite 23:9 38:6 47:10,22 49:9 relying 48:15
37:8,11 19:2 20:25 50:5 63:11 49:9 50:9 remainder
38:9 25:22 38:1 quote 34:15 41:2 rebuttal 2:10 17:25
41:17,23 50:8,11 51:9 18:1 61:13 remaining 61:12
54:14,15 55:9 56:15 recognition 50:2 remarkably
55:15 57:6 62:19 R 3:1 recognize 50:4 18:12
18:19 20:20 22:4,8 23:19 42:4 44:5 36:21,23 37:4
13:9 25:7,9 26:6,12 50:7 55:9,12 15:22,25 34:6 56:4,18 59:10
18:25 27:14,16,19 55:13 56:16 48:23 57:4 60:19 61:5,7
21:1 28:15 29:1,7,7 57:7 58:15 scale 45:13 61:23,24 62:3
27:17 29:17 31:18,24 59:19 62:9,9 Scalia 6:5,10,16 62:6,22 65:18
32:24 32:2,5,7,11,15 62:11,20,24 6:22,24 7:8,15 secured 4:3
43:5 45:6 32:18,21,22 63:23,25 64:14 11:3,7,11 12:19
56:17,18 33:2,8,12,16 64:20 65:2 16:14,21,23 see 15:7 21:11
33:16,21 34:7 rigid 20:17 17:4,14,17 24:5,7 27:22
36:9,14 37:3 risks 60:11 31:18,21,23 41:19 55:14,15
39:9,15,17,22 4:6 13:1,11 35:21 38:8,11 selective 21:5
2:6,9 41:7,15,23 32:6,20 33:22 42:18 43:1,3 29:25 34:13
29:13 42:1,4,6,8,9,13 33:25 36:16,25 43:11,14 49:13 36:11 37:9,13
54:3 46:7 48:2,6 46:6,11,14,24 51:5,14,17,20 40:1,15 41:1,2
55:2 57:15,16 65:4,10,20,22 59:7 60:3,15 59:6 60:11
58:13,14,14,15 rule 16:15 20:17 school 7:3,5 12:4
5:4,8,20,24 8:5 sake 44:4 12:5,7,9,11,18 33:8
9:2,15 8:19,22 9:6,8 satisfied 37:10 18:11,13,23 Seventh 7:18,19
11:18 9:10,22,22,24 41:16 19:21,23 20:11 33:24
9:25 10:1,9,12 save 15:24 21:16,22 22:2 sever 60:17,23
Special 1:20 54:20 55:10,11 7:19 11:8,21 42:18,23,24
15:1 50:11 63:13,16 21:15 23:19 talk 25:25
16:4 standard 21:2 statistics 14:14 sufficient 42:12 37:16
38:5 48:19 51:10 14:17 15:3 42:13 tell 5:16 65:14
59:16,21 16:4,19,24 sufficiently telling 9:3
stands 22:1 57:5 step 47:5,5,6,6 suggest 4:10 terms 6:13 13:14
starting 27:24 19:10,13,17 suicide 50:17 Texas 53:8
24:21 25:15 37:15,17 57:3,23 supermajority texts 65:14
37:20,22 38:2 stood 15:16 8:21 textual 20:24
6:17 40:1,13 41:21 18:12 23:21 18:7 Thank 18:2
61:22 42:12 43:22 strange 58:20 supports 48:17 28:21 29:9
54:13 58:25 stricter 60:19 25:6 44:1,3 Thanks 65:11
3:25 4:19,19 21:23 Supreme 1:1,12 31:16 32:3
9:18 13:22 49:3 28:12 36:16 37:13 38:25
20:9,18 23:7 subject 29:23 63:19 65:9 54:22 59:8
48:8,23 29:19 31:5,12 submitted 65:23 switching 43:11 there's 14:24
59:12 33:10 35:13 65:25 system 15:6 32:3 16:14,24 18:20
37:7,11 38:6 substance 26:12 32:4,5,9,9,14 35:5 56:8 57:7
47:24 48:7 substantially they'd 44:13
43:4 45:6 59:23 60:1 27:20 37:23 60:15 17:4 23:4 28:6
56:5 62:10 38:24 39:19 use 4:21 16:13 28:20 34:2
threats 59:2 47:6 49:22,24 41:23 54:9 38:2 42:13
27:20 time 7:6 9:5,8,12 60:24 62:19 useful 14:8 58:17,21 63:20
55:21 9:15 17:25 type 37:4 50:16,16 War 3:25
30:2,5 49:14 types 51:9 53:1 wash 61:24
8:15 14:8 54:2,4 55:20 U v 1:5 3:4 10:7 1:17
15:11,13 63:18 64:5 Ullman 30:17 13:6 20:8 wasn't 23:9
17:5 Times 13:6 20:8 underlying 30:17 31:1 41:10
19:25 tittle 18:18 48:18 valid 52:24 53:3 watered-down
today 9:23 41:14 understand 9:22 valuable 29:25 23:11
41:18 43:8,21 11:1 20:6 24:6 value 42:19 watering 65:18
48:5 50:1 27:23 28:3 valued 34:14 way 4:23 10:3
52:24 29:1 38:8 40:4 variety 51:8 15:9 19:9 21:8
24:12,21 total 15:13 41:19 45:16 52:4 56:11 22:23 23:18
25:10,12 26:22 understanding various 35:10 27:1,15,16,16
27:3 trace 23:24 6:15 12:21 vary 61:8 27:17 28:3
28:16 tradition 10:8 13:21 65:13 versa 25:16 29:1,2 42:15
29:5 50:19 60:14 understood 3:15 version 13:7 44:21 53:24
traditional 41:7 4:3 5:14 10:1 23:7,10,11 55:25 61:8
31:22 traditionally 10:21 13:19 versus 14:24,25 ways 5:1 14:12
52:12,15 15:19 31:13 15:1,4 59:18
33:15 traditions 11:4 33:8 45:18 veto 8:22 weapon 51:11
48:20 61:18 62:12 vice 25:16 weapons 51:12
42:7,15 translated 21:12 64:11 65:17 view 15:14 54:1
45:14 treat 62:23 undertake 7:11 26:25 30:16 went 47:13,17
46:3,6,8 trend 24:23 26:4 unenumerated 34:4 47:9 47:19
47:8,12 trial 18:20 24:3 5:20,24 8:8,14 48:17 54:21 weren't 9:24,25
31:18,24 32:11 8:16 10:17,24 57:12 60:5 we're 47:1,4
49:7 33:21 62:14,15 10:25 12:17 63:1 63:12
50:23 63:8,21 20:23 21:2 views 55:4 we've 9:20 21:7
53:2 trials 4:20 62:11,24 63:23 violated 51:11 we'll 3:3 25:25
54:18 tried 39:6 63:25 64:9,12 violates 41:22 26:2
56:14 trim 10:19 65:2 violating 5:4 we're 13:10 15:7
57:1 trivial 3:24 unheard 50:9 violations 5:6 27:23 35:15
59:3 trouble 64:2,4 unique 25:17 violence 59:2 46:23 63:6,17
64:21 true 10:10 24:2 United 1:1,12 60:12 64:5
63:21 50:1 62:5,8 Virginia 1:15 whichever 43:10
28:14 trying 46:14 54:21 23:12 widely 54:6
33:6 Tuesday 1:9 Unusual 55:13 virtues 22:24 willing 39:17
41:20 turns 43:4 upheld 54:2 Winkler 59:17
39:18 5
56:4
40:10
1:13 3:2
65:24
4:8 6:25
9:23
32:21
6:25
59:5
28:14
35:11
40:12
61:7
2:7
31:1
55:7
31:10 53:8
31:8
8:20 64:14
3:17 43:21
65:16
9:23 22 63:16
26:15 220 29:21 38:3
29:21 58:24
38:3 27 17:21
28 63:13
38:22
2:4 61:12
24:18
32:2 4
45:25
