IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MARY BERGHUIS, WARDEN, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-1470
VAN CHESTER THOMPKINS :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, March 1, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
B. ERIC RESTUCCIA, ESQ., Solicitor General, Lansing,
Michigan; on behalf of Petitioner.
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Petitioner.
ELIZABETH L. JACOBS, ESQ., Detroit, Michigan; on behalf
of Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
B. ERIC RESTUCCIA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.
For the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioner 19
ELIZABETH L. JACOBS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 30
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
B. ERIC RESTUCCIA, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 56
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear
argument first this morning in case 08-1470,
Berghuis v. Thompkins.
Mr. Restuccia.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF B. ERIC RESTUCCIA
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. RESTUCCIA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
In rejecting Mr. Thompkins's Miranda claim
and ineffective assistance of counsel claim, the
Michigan courts did not unreasonably apply clearly
established Supreme Court precedent. I plan to focus on
the Miranda claim.
Now, with respect to the Miranda claim, there
really are two distinct inquiries at issue. The first
is whether Mr. Thompkins impliedly waived his rights
under the Fifth Amendment and, second, whether he
invoked his right to remain silent during a police
interview.
Regarding the waiver question, this Court
established in Butler that there may be an implied
waiver, even where a suspect remains silent after having
received his Miranda warnings, where that suspect
knowingly receives his rights and there is a course of
conduct that indicates waiver.
The Michigan courts here did not
unreasonably conclude that Mr. Thompkins had impliedly
waived his rights where he expressly acknowledged his
rights under -- from his form. After having read out loud
from that form, he participated in a limited fashion
during the interview.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he didn't -- he
didn't waive them. And quite unlike Butler -- Butler,
if I have it right, said, "I'll talk to you." So that
was a statement --
MR. RESTUCCIA: But --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- that he was waiving
the right to remain silent. He volunteered to talk.
Here there was no such indication that there was a
waiver of his right to remain silent.
MR. RESTUCCIA: Although in Butler this
Court noted that -- that Butler himself had remained
silent and did not answer the -- answer at all, or
remained silent when asked whether he wished to waive
his right to counsel. So the -- the standard that was
established from which the Michigan courts relied is
really on this -- this language of the standard
established from Butler, that you can -- you can imply
waiver from the knowing reception, and then a course of
conduct, because the -- the inference can be drawn from
the words and actions of the person interrogated. And
here --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me
without more detail, which is what the circuit court
said, about what the limited responses -- I'm using your
word -- were. How do we -- how can we imply waiver?
MR. RESTUCCIA: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Meaning if all he said
was, yes, I want them in, that's much different than
saying, if someone had asked him, do you want to leave,
and he shakes his head no. The latter might imply to me
that he waived, but the former certainly would be
neutral.
MR. RESTUCCIA: I have to
carefully delineate between waiver and invocation. So
here the waiver occurs at the time that he is asked the
series of questions: Do you believe in God? Do you
pray to God? Did you pray for forgiveness --
JUSTICE BREYER: That happened about 2
hours and 15 minutes into the exercise, didn't it?
MR. RESTUCCIA: That's right. It happened
near the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So -- so what we
have here is a course of conduct, 2 hours and 15 minutes
of saying nothing.
MR. RESTUCCIA: Well, we ­
JUSTICE BREYER: Would you say that
that's -- that's gone past the point where --
MR. RESTUCCIA: Well, this -- if you're
looking at what has been clearly established for this
Court, this Court has never -- I mean, one of the
arguments raised against the position I'm
advocating is that there is an immediacy requirement.
Well, this Court in Butler didn't say that the waiver
had to occur immediately.
JUSTICE BREYER: In Butler he said: I will
talk to you, but I am not signing any forms.
MR. RESTUCCIA: That's right. But if you
look at what's the clearly established law -- this Court
identified the standard, what can be inferred from the
words and actions of the person interrogated. And if
you look at what the two --
JUSTICE BREYER: What they say is, "a course
of conduct" -- we will not hold -- "This does not mean a
defendant's silence, coupled with an understanding and a
course of conduct indicating waiver, may never support a
conclusion...."
MR. RESTUCCIA: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: But the prosecution's
burden is great.
MR. RESTUCCIA: Right. And if -- if you
look at the two aspects of what constitutes a waiver,
it's knowing and intelligent, and voluntary. At the
time that Mr. Thompkins gave his answer to that series
of questions, there's nothing in the course of that
interview that suggested that no longer did he know that
he didn't have to answer questions.
JUSTICE BREYER: But going back to Justice
Sotomayor's question, is there anything during the 2
hours and 15 minutes that could suggest a waiver?
MR. RESTUCCIA: The -- the -- the waiver
occurs at the time that he answered the question. So the
answer is that he didn't waiver before then, but that --
it still is evidence to show that that course -- that
nothing the police had done -- there were no threats --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what do we do with
our case law that says that you can't infer waiver
simply from the confession?
MR. RESTUCCIA: Well, the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, we have said
that. So that's pretty clearly established statement --
MR. RESTUCCIA: Well, the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- by the Court.
MR. RESTUCCIA: The courts on direct review
have allowed -- where there's a knowing reception of
one's rights, have allowed the answers themselves to
provide the evidence that the person did waive his
rights. In fact --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I think certainly
in -- in Butler, if someone in their confession says, I
know I don't have to talk to you, but I want to, that
that would be using those words.
MR. RESTUCCIA: But that would be --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how can you say --
MR. RESTUCCIA: That would be an express
waiver, though.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How can you say that
an appeal to someone's religious position after 2 and
a quarter hours is a voluntary waiver?
MR. RESTUCCIA: Well, if you look at what
this Court has provided in terms of guidance regarding
what constitutes a lengthy interrogation, Miranda notes
that a lengthy interrogation would be strong evidence
against there being a valid waiver. But what
this Court has determined to be a lengthy interrogation
were interrogations of much longer duration. In fact,
Miranda even talks about --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We didn't say -- we don't
have any decision that says the police are home free for
2 and a quarter hours. You said that that this was not
lengthy interrogation.
MR. RESTUCCIA: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we -- we have no
decision that says that the police, faced with a silent
suspect, goes after that suspect, questioning him
incessantly for 2 and -- 2 hours and 15 minutes, that
that is not lengthy.
MR. RESTUCCIA: Well, I think it's important
to remember that the factual record here was established
by the State court, and the factual record isn't that he
remained absolutely silent, but that he participated --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: He said "yeah," "no," and
"I don't know."
MR. RESTUCCIA: Right. But he was
participating. There's a fundamental difference between
remaining absolutely silent and participating --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait. Do -- do we have any
case that says that 2 and a quarter hours is too long?
MR. RESTUCCIA: No, and in fact --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that there can't be a
waiver after 2 and a quarter hours?
MR. RESTUCCIA: No, there's no case law to
that effect.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And, therefore, there's no
clearly established Supreme Court law that 2 and a
quarter hours is too long.
MR. RESTUCCIA: That's the position that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that the name of the
game here?
MR. RESTUCCIA: That's the position --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there a clearly
established rule that in all of the circumstances of the
case, we can find that there is coercion, time being one
aspect of those circumstances?
MR. RESTUCCIA: I think that's right. And
what -- one of the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And so that is a clearly
established rule, and then it's a question whether 2 and
a half, 3 and a half, 4 and a half suffices. -
MR. RESTUCCIA: Right. The -- the case that
I cited was Frazier v. Cupp, in which the interview
started at 5:00 p.m. and it finished at 6:45 p.m., and
the Court called that an interrogation of short
duration. And it is important to remember that this
Court has stated expressly in Davis that once you have
knowingly received your rights, that the knowing
reception itself dispels the inherently coercive
aspect --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The question --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But your -- your position
is that if -- same facts, but it's 10 hours instead of
2 and a half, is that a closer case, at least? For --
MR. RESTUCCIA: That's a very different
case, because there is case law -- like I cited Blackburn
was an interview that ran 8 or 9 hours, and this Court
found that that person was probably incompetent or
insane. But that duration is -- there's been guidance
about that kind of long duration, whereas in our --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And does that show that ­
that the circumstances are coercive, so that even if there
were a waiver it would be --
MR. RESTUCCIA: Right. That's the
suggestion from Miranda, that a lengthy interrogation
preceding the waiver can suggest the waiver was not
valid.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The question, of
course, is not whether we think 2 and a quarter hours
under all the circumstances is -- is too long under our
precedent. The question is, instead, whether it would be
unreasonable for the State court to determine otherwise.
MR. RESTUCCIA: That's right. And, ultimately,
the question is what guidance is there to the State of
Michigan in applying the implied waiver doctrine to
indicate that the implied waiver couldn't come after 2
hours and 15 minutes of interaction in which it
concluded that the -- that the suspect had been a
willing participant. The testimony from detective
Helgert, which -- he was the only person to testify at
the evidentiary hearing, is that --
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought Miranda held that
you can't question a person unless he waives his right.
MR. RESTUCCIA: No, Miranda in fact talks
about --
JUSTICE BREYER: You can question him even
after he -- it's clear that he hadn't waived his right.
Is that -- that's Miranda? Or at least that's unclear?
Is that --
MR. RESTUCCIA: Warnings -- warnings is a
prerequisite to questioning, but the waiver is not. In
fact --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm not talking about
the waiver. I'm saying, imagine that it's clear that a
person hasn't waived his right. Now let's suppose he
says, "I do not waive my right." Okay?
Now, is it clear law that once he says "I do
not waive my right," the police cannot continue to
question him?
MR. RESTUCCIA: If there is a --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that clear law, yes or
no?
MR. RESTUCCIA: Yes, that if there is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, yes. If that's clear
law, would you say that at some point before the 2 hours
and 15 minutes expires where they're continuously asking
him questions and he says nothing, that it has become
clear that he has not waived his right?
MR. RESTUCCIA: No. The factual record --
JUSTICE BREYER: For the question is not
this. The question is whether, after 2 hours and
15 minutes of silence, it is clear -- it's nothing about
Supreme Court law. Supreme Court law is clear: You
cannot question him after he makes clear he hasn't
waived his right. So then the question becomes, is it
reasonable for a State court to say -- after 2 hours and
15 minutes of asking questions and he says nothing, is
it reasonable to hold that he has not -- conclude that
he has not waived his rights? Is that the question?
MR. RESTUCCIA: Yes. The question as I see
it is that -- let me see if I understand. Let me see if
I understand your question. There's a difference
between refusing to waive, saying I will not waive my
rights. Essentially if you make it an expressed statement
that you are unwilling to waive, then essentially it is
in that case -- I want to keep this separate, but that
would be an invocation: I do not wish to answer your
questions. If you make a crystal-clear statement like
that, it's a different question.
But here Mr. Thompkins didn't say he was
unwilling to waive. He's participating. Now, you
suggest that there was silence --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're saying there's a
difference between a waiver and a failure to assert?
MR. RESTUCCIA: Yes, exactly. Here -- the
fact pattern here is he did not say "I am unwilling to
waive, I do not wish this interview to go forward." He
doesn't do that. He just doesn't assert --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You want to change the
Miranda rule to say: Tell someone their rights, and
unless they explicitly say "I don't want to talk to
you," then they implicitly under virtually any
circumstance haven't. That's what you believe the rule
in Miranda and Butler and Davis sets forth?
MR. RESTUCCIA: Butler states that where
there was silence after the provision of the Miranda
warnings, silence, that where the subsequent conduct,
where knowing reception of rights and the course of
conduct indicates waiver --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There wasn't -- there wasn't
silence in Butler. There was an express "I want to
talk to you."
MR. RESTUCCIA: I understand that's the facts
of Butler. But the standards by which all the courts
are operating, including the Michigan court, are the
standards articulated by Butler. Butler says that the
waiver can be inferred from the words and actions of the
person interrogated, indicating that the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: My -- but we go back to the
point you made earlier. Your position is the moment
that someone confesses, that's an implicit waiver.
MR. RESTUCCIA: No, because there could have
been actions taken by the police during the course of
this interview. There were no threats. There were no
improper promises.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand how this
person could just sit there for 2 hours and didn't want
to be interrogated and doesn't say: You know, I don't
want to answer your questions. He just sits there, and
some questions he doesn't answer. And he does make a
few comments, anyway.
MR. RESTUCCIA: That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why shouldn't we have a
rule which simply says if you don't want to be
interrogated, all you have to say is "I don't want to
answer your questions"?
MR. RESTUCCIA: Mr. Thompkins --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's nice and clear,
wouldn't be any problem at all. That was never said
here. He, in fact, submitted to having these questions
asked of him.
MR. RESTUCCIA: I think that that kind of
cuts to the nub of what Miranda says. Miranda says that
ultimately the statement has to be the free election of
the suspect. And here when Mr. Thompkins answered the
series of questions, he knew that he didn't have to
answer those questions, and nothing the police had done
during the course of the interview had undermined the
provision of rights, because it's those two aspects
which are the core, the knowing and intelligent and when
it's voluntary. Nothing the police had done had
undermined --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why should the police have
to play this game of, you know, an hour and a half,
2 hours, 2 hours and 15 minutes, 5 hours, 7 hours?
Why don't we have just a clear rule: You're read your
rights; if you don't want to be questioned all you have
to say is: I don't want to be questioned.
MR. RESTUCCIA: I think that's right, that here
Mr. Thompkins at any point could have said: I want
to stop" --
JUSTICE BREYER: What would you do with
Miranda's statement "But a valid waiver will not be
presumed simply from the silence of the accused" -- I
grant you, as modified in Butler to say that the State
has a heavy burden of showing that the silence followed
by a confession -- the State has a heavy burden of
showing that that is an affirmative waiver. Now, those
I think are the two statements of law, the third being
that after, if there is no waiver, the police cannot
continue to question. Now, I thought that was the clear
law.
MR. RESTUCCIA: It's a --
JUSTICE BREYER: I grant you, you might argue
for a change in the law.
MR. RESTUCCIA: But -- but this language from
Miranda that says the silence of the accused after
warnings are given would not be sufficient, that's
right, but Butler then fully explained. And think about
the State courts are coming in that they then -- this
Court then made clear that even silence after having
received Miranda warnings -- that if you knowingly
receive your rights and there is a course of conduct
that indicates waiver, that there can be a waiver.
That's exactly what the Federal courts have done on
direct review.
Now, thinking about the Michigan courts and
trying to determine what's -- how these rules are to be
applied, the Federal courts have found, in the absence of a
waiver, where a suspect knowingly receives his rights
and then answers questions implicating himself, that the
answers themselves can serve as the basis for the
finding of a waiver.
That's what the -- the conclusion that Mr.
Thompkins waived here is a reasonable one. It's not
objectively unreasonable. And, of course, you have to
recall the overarching habeas law that governs this,
that not just does a Michigan court decision have to
be incorrect, it has to be objectively unreasonable.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there any difference
between -- between waiving your right and a failure to
assert your right?
MR. RESTUCCIA: Yes, there is a difference,
that here Mr. Thompkins did not assert his right. He
did not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is every failure to assert
a waiver?
MR. RESTUCCIA: No, because at the point --
the point at which Mr. Thompkins waived is when he acts
inconsistent with the exercise of his rights. When he
answers questions knowing that he doesn't have to
answer, that is the waiver.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about before that?
What is happening before that?
MR. RESTUCCIA: Before -- in that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He hasn't asserted his
right. I mean, he hasn't said I --
MR. RESTUCCIA: Right. So what happens is
he has not waived and he has not invoked.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He has done neither.
MR. RESTUCCIA: He has does neither.
JUSTICE SCALIA: He has neither waived nor
asserted.
MR. RESTUCCIA: And there's nothing -- the
way the Miranda rule works is that the waiver is a -- is
a prerequisite for the -- for admission of the evidence, but
not for the interrogation itself. So what happens is the --
well, if there are no further questions, I'd like to
reserve my remaining time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Saharsky.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE SUPPORTING PETITIONER
MS. SAHARSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Respondent's confession was properly
admitted at his trial. I'd like to go right to some
of the questions that this Court had about the language
that was used in the Miranda decision and in the Butler
decision. Both -- all of this language comes up in
Butler. Now, Butler was a case not about the waiver of
the right to silence, but a waiver of the right to
counsel. So the suspect said "I will talk to you," but
the North Carolina Supreme Court said: Well, we don't
know if he waived his right to counsel, and that's why
the court got into a question of implied waiver.
So the Court in its analysis in Butler first
reviewed this language that the Court has talked about
this morning from Miranda that says "A valid waiver will
not be presumed simply from the silence of the accused
or simply from the fact that a confession was in fact
eventually obtained."
And this is our understanding of that language:
First, it is not the case that a failure to invoke Miranda
rights will be taken in the Miranda context as a waiver.
Now, Justice Scalia, I think you
alluded to the fact that the normal rule for the Fifth
Amendment at trial is that you assert your rights or
they are waived. But Miranda's an exception to that,
that the failure to assert we are not going to take as a
waiver. The government has to do something more.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So do you read -- yes. So
do you read Miranda as saying that there cannot be
questioning unless there is a waiver? Then we'll go
on to -- or do you --
MS. SAHARSKY: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Okay, you do not.
MS. SAHARSKY: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So are you going to go on --
because this is right where you are. Are you going to go on
to say that, in the Miranda context, the failure to assert
can -- can suffice to allow the questioning to proceed?
MS. SAHARSKY: As long as the warnings are
given, the accused has been told of his rights, and that
the police will respect his rights, and questioning can
proceed. The Court said in Davis and said in other
cases, Moran versus Burbine, that the primary protection
afforded by Miranda is to level the playing field by
letting the accused know of his rights and that the
police will respect them. And after the point that he
gets his rights and understands them, the police can
question him. You'd have to overrule Butler to say that
there has to be a waiver before any questioning.
Just to get back to the second thing that
the Court said in Miranda that was picked up in Butler,
it said: We are not going to assume that there is a
waiver simply from the fact that a confession was
eventually obtained; there is a burden on the
government.
And the way that we understand that is that
the government can't just go into court and say: Look,
we have a confession; we know he waived his rights.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But why isn't that
language that you quote a negative inference that there
must be a waiver?
MS. SAHARSKY: Well, if you look back at the
language -- the other language in Miranda, it says that a
waiver is a prerequisite to the admission of the
evidence at trial. We know that to be able to use that
evidence we have to know that he made a knowing and
intelligent and voluntary decision to talk. But that
he -- that doesn't mean he has to make the decision to
talk right away. He might want to listen to what the
police have to say about the benefits of cooperation or
the evidence that they have in his case. And that --
those are the kinds of things the police could say that
could be understood to be custodial interrogation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So there's a difference
between waiving at the time of the interrogation and
then waiving it at the time of trial? I don't
understand that.
MS. SAHARSKY: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to
suggest that. What I'm saying is at the time the
Respondent makes his statements, that waiver -- there has
to be a waiver and it has to be a knowing, intelligent,
and voluntary one. That at the time he makes his
statement -- here when he admitted that he shot the boy
down, he had to understand what his rights were and
there had -- those statements had to not be the result
of police coercion.
And no court here has found that they were the
result of police coercion. There is no question about
voluntariness here.
So what we understand this language in
Butler to mean about an implied waiver is the fact of a
confession itself is not enough to show the government
has met its burden. When the Court talked about a
course of conduct, it talked about the same standard
that it's always used in the Miranda context, that came
up again recently in this Court's decision in Shatzer,
which is that the ultimate question is a knowing,
intelligent, and voluntary waiver.
The course of conduct doesn't mean anything
more than that. It means that at the time the guy
spoke --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But in this case, it was
the fact of the concession -- the confession that
constituted the waiver.
MS. SAHARSKY: That shows that he decided to
talk, but the confession itself isn't enough. We needed
to have -- the State needed to have evidence that he
understood his rights, which he said he did, and that there
was -- that the confession was not the product of police
coercion.
And I think that that comes through directly
in the language that's at issue in Butler. The Court
said "an express written or oral statement of waiver" --
to remain silent or the right to counsel -- "is strong proof
of the validity of the waiver but not inevitably necessary....
The question is not one of form, but whether the
defendant, in fact, knowingly and voluntarily waived the
rights delineated in Miranda."
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I just want to make
sure where we are.
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're not -- you're conceding,
it seems to me, that there must be a waiver?
MS. SAHARSKY: Before the evidence can be
admitted at trial.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just don't understand --
why -- why can't --
MS. SAHARSKY: Okay. It's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: We have to guide the
police.
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why don't we tell the
police, there must be a waiver before you can continue
to interrogate?
MS. SAHARSKY: That would -- that would
exact a substantial price on law enforcement, and that's
the exact argument that Justice Brennan made in the
Butler case that was rejected. He was in dissent in
that case. He said the police should always have to --
have to seek a waiver before they interrogate.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't know why you
didn't answer Justice Stevens's questions by saying,
Justice Stevens, I don't care about waiver. There was
no -- there was no assertion of the right.
But you're not saying that. You are
admitting there has to be a waiver.
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. To admit the evidence
at trial, there has to be a waiver.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why do you say it would
change the police's behavior? Inbau and Reid and, you
know, the -- the NAC -- the Defense Lawyers' brief here is
filled with quotations from typical police manuals, and
they all seem to say things like you have to have at --
once the waiver is given, the police may proceed with
interrogation. That seems to be what police today are
instructed across the country.
It says you cannot question people until he
indicates after the warning is given a willingness to
answer questions. That's the police manual.
So why do you say this would extract a price
on law enforcement when the typical police manuals seem
to say what the Petitioner here is saying?
MS. SAHARSKY: Not every police --
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean the Respondent.
MS. SAHARSKY: -- manual says that. That
brief itself cites many examples going both ways.
It is often the case, and it is often the
case in Federal law enforcement, that the police try to
seek a waiver immediately after giving rights because we
want to avoid the problems of proof that come up at
trial if we don't have a written waiver.
JUSTICE BREYER: Which -- which are the
police manuals that go your way? Because I want to look
at those, too.
MS. SAHARSKY: I'm sorry, I don't -- I don't
have the specific citations from the brief. I -- I know
from asking the Federal law enforcement agencies -- DHS,
the FBI, and the DEA -- that the DEA does not invariably
seek a waiver and that we don't understand that we need
to get an immediate waiver.
And, again, that was what Justice Brennan
said in -- in dissent in Butler, is that the police should have
to seek an immediate waiver. And the Court said, no,
the Fifth Amendment right is -- compel -- about compelled
statements being introduced at trial. We don't need
this protection, that the police have to seek an immediate
waiver. In fact, if you adopted a rule like that, it
would essentially take any burden off the suspect to
invoke his rights.
He wouldn't need to invoke his rights,
because the police would just -- if the police didn't
seek a waiver.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you're saying
there -- there's a difference, I -- I assume, between
not waiving and positively asserting your right not to
be interrogated?
MS. SAHARSKY: That's exactly right. If the
person --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, if -- if he had -- here
he simply refused to sign the -- the Miranda form,
right?
MS. SAHARSKY: That's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which would have -- which
would been the -- the waiver. And -- and you're saying
it's his later behavior that -- that showed that, in
fact, he waived. What if instead of just refusing to
sign, he had said, I do not want to be interrogated?
MS. SAHARSKY: Then the interrogation stops.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MS. SAHARSKY: And that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so he has the right
to terminate the whole thing by asserting his right. If
he neither asserts the right nor grants the waiver, the
police can continue to try to obtain a statement from
him?
MS. SAHARSKY: Right. A contrary rule would
have to overrule Butler, because the Court said you can
clearly infer waiver from the actions and words of the
person interrogated. That assumes that the person is
being interrogated. Just to talk a minute about the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But there also assumes
there has to be a waiver.
MS. SAHARSKY: Yes, at the time that the
person makes the inculpatory statements that are going
at be introduced at trial, it must be the case that he
decided he was going to talk to the police knowingly,
intelligently, and voluntarily.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. As I read
this transcript, the police's tactic, by their own
statement, was to approach him and say: This is our
evidence. Explain yourself -- that's the words
the officer used -- but he's entitled to an alternative
explanation. Tell us.
What's clear is that at no point did he
answer those questions, because nothing about the nods
of the head or anything else showed a willingness to
confess.
And even in the responses he gave, he
answered a series of questions with a "yes," but not with
an explanation, which was what was being requested.
So my question is, how does one infer a
voluntary statement from a situation in which someone's
really not talking? I've never understood how a yes or
a nod to questions that don't -- that's what the circuit
said, to questions that we don't know what they were
about -- do you want a mint or not, I don't even know
that -- can reflect voluntariness?
And I understand that in Butler when someone
says I don't want to sign that, but I'm going to spill
my guts now, and does, that's a course of conduct one
could view as voluntary.
MS. SAHARSKY: Right. And we say that the
waiver occurred at the time he answered the questions
about his belief in God. And it doesn't matter what he
said in response to the earlier questions, as long as at the
time that he answered questions about God, his decision
to talk was a knowing and intelligent and voluntary one.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Unless, I assume, that
you -- you -- you acknowledge that if the interrogation
had go on -- had gone on for so long that it had become
coercive, then that -- that -- that last statement would
not -- would not be a voluntary waiver.
MS. SAHARSKY: That's right. But Respondent
made a voluntariness argument throughout all of the
courts in this case, and every court has rejected it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Ms. Saharsky.
Ms. Jacobs.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ELIZABETH L. JACOBS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. JACOBS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
When I review Miranda, I find language from
Miranda that says that you have to have a -- an advice
of rights and a waiver before you question. And I just
want to direct the Court to page 475 of Miranda:
Requirement of warnings and waiver is a fundamental
aspect of the Fifth Amendment privilege and not simply a
preliminary ritual to existing interrogation methods.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What happens when
you read Butler?
MS. JACOBS: Butler, I think, is an
interesting case, because Butler is mostly aimed at the
right to counsel. When you talk about the right to
counsel and the right to remain silent, you have really
two different kinds of rights. And there's an
assertion requirement in the right to counsel. You
can't exercise that right without getting some help from
the police.
But the right to remain silent -- we don't
require that it be asserted. It is a presumption. And
that presumption remains.
JUSTICE ALITO: Your argument is that you
can infer waiver of the right to counsel from conduct,
but you can't infer waiver of the right to remain silent
from conduct?
MS. JACOBS: Essentially, yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's your best authority
for that proposition?
MS. JACOBS: Let me make sure that I -- that
I said yes to the right thing.
You can -- I do -- you can take an implied
waiver of the -- of the right to silence. I -- I do
agree with that. And I look at the cases that have been
cited, and I know that there are three kinds of examples.
One is the person walks into the police
Station, and he says I want to confess. That's a
voluntary confession. You don't have to assert
anything. He's -- he's going to confess.
If you have a steady stream of speech in
which he says, I don't want to talk but I'll tell you
about this, again, you have somebody acting voluntarily.
Someone who says I'll only talk about drugs
but I'm not going to talk about murder -- he's implied
he's waived his right to that.
But in this case, when you look at this
case, the key issue really is was it volitional? What
fact would lead a court to decide that there -- that my
client --
JUSTICE ALITO: So, basically what you're
saying is that if the defendant here had said at the
beginning, I don't know whether I -- I want to talk
to you or not, but I'm going to listen to your questions
and I might answer some and I might answer others -- that
would be a different case?
MS. JACOBS: Yes, absolutely. You have an
implied waiver.
JUSTICE ALITO: And where is there -- what
Supreme Court case establishes the distinction between
those two situations clearly?
MS. JACOBS: Well, Davis is a case that
talks about the assertion of the right to counsel, but
does not apply to the right to remain silent. So I
think as long as you still have the presumption of --
the presumption of the privilege against
self-incrimination as a presumptive right, the police
have to do something to move you off square one in order
to make it voluntary.
Am I answering your question, Justice Alito?
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm not sure I really
understand.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It depends on what you --
what you need to make "it," it depends on what "it" is.
If -- if you mean the ultimate confession, I think I
don't agree. Ultimately, if he confesses and hasn't
been coerced, it's voluntary.
But if by the "it" you mean to make the
continuation of the interrogation voluntary, that's a
different question. And I don't know that our cases
establish that you cannot continue the interrogation
until there has been a waiver.
MS. JACOBS: Well, Justice Scalia, I just
read you page 475 from Miranda that says the requirement
is warnings and waiver, and that's not, as they said, a
preliminary ritual. That means more. Seibert -- and I
know it's a preliminary -- a plurality --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But does that make it clear
that -- that there has to be a waiver before the
interrogation can continue? And if it does, how does it
square with Butler?
MS. JACOBS: Again, Butler is really a right
to counsel case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They're both under --
they're both under Miranda. Both of those rights are
Miranda rights.
MS. JACOBS: In Butler the -- the waiver,
the voluntary act of the person being interrogated
really occurred very, very early. There wasn't any kind
of a gap. He said, I don't -- I believe he said, I
don't want to -- I don't want to do something in
writing, but I'll talk to you.
Now, that is a voluntary act: I'm going to
talk to you. That is clearly a waiver. That isn't
what we've got in this case. You have a young man who is
sitting in a chair, looking at the ground; he's sullen.
The only time he looks at the officer is when the
officer directs him to look.
JUSTICE ALITO: I thought your answer was
that there does not have to be a waiver before
questioning can occur.
MS. JACOBS: No, there must be a waiver.
There's no such thing as --
JUSTICE ALITO: There must be --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, Miranda does not say
that. I mean, I think -- I think that Justice Scalia is
right on that, that Miranda doesn't say you can't
question him. The pages that you read to us say that if
you have a lengthy questioning, then the fact that he
then gives a statement cannot be taken as a -- cannot be
admitted. That's -- that's what it seems to say on page
476 --
MS. JACOBS: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- in the absence of some
special circumstance.
MS. JACOBS: In this case, because it went --
because the interrogation lasted so long --
JUSTICE BREYER: Am I right? I mean Miranda
does not explicitly say that you cannot continue
questioning. Am I right about that?
MS. JACOBS: Um --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm asking because I don't
know. I didn't see it in the --
MS. JACOBS: And I -- and I want to answer
you with what -- what I read. "The requirement of warnings
and waiver is fundamental." My argument is that you cannot
continue to question someone who has not waived the
right, that there's --
JUSTICE ALITO: So, what if the person says:
I'm not waiving, but I'm not saying that I will never
waive. I'll listen to your questions.
MS. JACOBS: I think you've got a waiver.
JUSTICE ALITO: When he says --
MS. JACOBS: You've got a waiver.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- I'm not waiving?
MS. JACOBS: But he's willing to talk to the
police. In my case, Mr. Thompkins was unwilling. He
could -- he would not look at anybody. He would not
answer questions. We don't know what the "I don't know"
and the "yeah" was to. So that's a very -- my case is a
very different case than what you are proposing. There
is no willingness to engage with the police; there is, in
fact, this feeling that there is coercion going on. The
longer that interrogation --
JUSTICE ALITO: Can I interrupt? Before I
can understand your case, I would like to understand
this hypothetical. If the person says: I'm not waiving,
but I'm not telling you that I won't waive at some point
in the future. I'll listen to your questions.
MS. JACOBS: I think he is engaging in a
conversation.
JUSTICE ALITO: That's a waiver.
MS. JACOBS: I think he's engaging in a
conversation with the police and that the police at that
point can continue to talk. But that isn't what
happened in this case. There was no indication by my
client that he wanted to listen, that he wanted to talk.
The longer that interrogation lasted, the more --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, he -- he didn't say
anything. You -- I think you could say that his conduct
implied the very kind of statement that Justice Alito
suggested in his hypothetical: I'll listen to you guys
for a while.
MS. JACOBS: What is key, I think, in your
-- in your hypothetical and in Justice Alito's
hypothetical, is that you have a defendant that feels
comfortable, that is not being oppressed by this
coercive atmosphere. My client did not engage in
anything, and the longer he sat there, the greater the
chances that anything he said was the product of
coercion.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I -- just refresh my
recollection. In the record in this case, do we know
whether he said he understood his rights?
MS. JACOBS: Justice Stevens, that's kind of
iffy. The police officer --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Because that was present
in Butler.
MS. JACOBS: Yes, the police officer in this
case said either "I don't remember whether I asked him" or
"I think he nodded that he understood." I don't think
we've got a real solid proof of that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It was read to him.
MS. JACOBS: Yes, it was read to him.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And they had him read a
portion of the Miranda warning.
MS. JACOBS: I don't think they had him read
a portion --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Huh?
MS. JACOBS: -- Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought, in order to test
his knowledge of English, they asked him to read one or two
paragraphs.
MS. JACOBS: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, they had him read --
MS. JACOBS: I guess it was just that
they didn't ask him to write anything, so that they
didn't know whether he could write in English. Yes,
Justice Scalia, you're correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So I -- boy, I -- what more
do you need?
MS. JACOBS: You need --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, he -- he's
listening when -- when they read it to him. He -- he --
he can read it himself.
MS. JACOBS: You are presuming that a
defendant thinks that they've got the kind of power to
look at a police officer and say, "I don't want to talk
to you. Remove me."
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe -- maybe he doesn't
want to talk for the moment, but he does want to listen.
I'm not sure you're doing defendants a great -- a great
favor. I mean, some of them might want to listen to --
to the police telling them, you know, by the way, your
co-conspirator is singing like a bird and he's trying to
pin it all on you, and maybe, you know, if -- if you
don't want to get left holding the bag, maybe you'd better
to talk to us and tell us what really happened.
I'm not sure that -- that if I were there,
even if I didn't want to talk right now, I might still
want to listen, which is apparently what this -- what
this person did. He could have said, I don't want to --
I don't want talk.
And it -- and it would have ended. That
would have been an assertion of his right. He didn't
assert his right, but --
MS. JACOBS: What --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- he -- he sat there and
listened. Now, maybe he wanted to find out what the
police would have to say to him.
MS. JACOBS: There is nothing in -- on this
record that indicates that he wanted to listen to them
as opposed to what Justice Alito's hypothetical is,
where the gentleman says: Well, I'm not going to say
anything, but I want to hear what you have to say. We
don't have that here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we have it to
the extent that he was told he had right to remain
silent and he didn't say, I'm not going to talk to you.
MS. JACOBS: There's no clearly established
law that says that he has to assert his right to remain
silent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it there any
clearly established law the other way, which is the
pertinent question?
MS. JACOBS: I think that because there is
the presumption of the -- the privilege is a presumptive
right, that he does not have to assert it. This is --
this is -- the right, or the privilege against
self-incrimination, the constitutional command, is the
one right that really defines our criminal justice
system. It means that you cannot talk to -- the police
do not have the right to talk to the defendant. It
makes us an accusatorial system --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We're not talking
-- we're not talking about the Fifth Amendment right.
We're talking about the Miranda warnings. There's no
issue of voluntariness in this case. Right?
MS. JACOBS: Well, when --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There's no
suggestion that there's -- that the statements are not
voluntary. The suggestion is that they may have
violated Miranda.
MS. JACOBS: Right. That's correct. But if
you are going to adopt the suggestion of the government
that you do pre-interrogation waiver, which I think is
what we're talking about -- that is, you don't give him
his rights and then you can just talk and talk
until you are blue in the face, that that ends up being
a more coercive situation than we have now.
This is the kind of situation that could
have been easily resolved just by the officer asking Mr.
Thompkins, do you want to talk to us? Instead, once
they establish --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if he said, do
you want to remain silent?
MS. JACOBS: He could -- that's fine.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And he doesn't
answer either one.
MS. JACOBS: Then -- then he's not
cooperating. He's not waiving his rights. It's not
voluntary. Take him back to the cell, that's it.
Because the police --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then you're saying then
that the defendant has to -- never has to invoke his
right? That --
MS. JACOBS: The state of the -- the state
of the law is a defendant does not have to invoke his
right to remain silent. Davis is the invocation case;
it applies to the second stage of -- of the
interrogation. And it has to do with --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was the Miranda warning
adequate in this case? He got the four warnings, but
then, unlike some police forms that then ask the
defendant, do you waive your rights, this form never
asked, did you waive your rights? It just said: Do you
acknowledge that we have informed you of your rights?
MS. JACOBS: That's correct, Justice
Ginsburg. That's all that form said. And what the
officer said is once Mr. Thompkins would not sign it, he
then moved into interview mode. There was no
further -- if this was an ambiguous act to him, then the
officer should have asked a clarifying question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You say you don't
have to invoke your rights, but Butler also says that
you can impliedly waive them. You don't have to
expressly waive them.
MS. JACOBS: I'm saying you don't have to
invoke the right to remain silent, that that's not the
state of the law, that only the right to remain -- I'm
sorry -- the right to counsel must be invoked.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. So the
question under AEDPA -- you agree there can be an implied
waiver; that's what Butler says, right? So the question
under AEDPA is whether the State court was unreasonable
to determine that there was an implied waiver on these
facts?
MS. JACOBS: The State actually found two --
I think you're saying that there was an objectively
unreasonable determination of the facts in this case?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MS. JACOBS: And I think that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe.
MS. JACOBS: It's one way or the other.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MS. JACOBS: And I think clearly that there
-- that there were facts that the Michigan Court of
Appeals found that were not supported by the record and
were objectively unreasonable.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What are those?
MS. JACOBS: The Sixth Circuit found that
when the Michigan Court of Appeals said the defendant
continued to talk with officers, the Sixth Circuit said
that that was an objectively unreasonable finding
because there was no continuation, there was no talking.
They also found unreasonable that the defendant talked
with officers sporadically. The Sixth Circuit said that
that was a misrepresentation of the record.
The last fact that they talked about is the
Michigan Court of Appeals said that the defendant made
eye contact several times or a number of times. And the
Sixth Circuit said, quote -- this is what the -- they
said that that was incorrect. What the officer said at
the hearing is that eye contact came only at the end,
one of the very -- one of the very first times came only
at the end.
So -- but those are important facts. The
fact that he was not continuing to talk -- he wasn't
talking at all. How do you find this -- this
voluntariness, that the rights are waived --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, those facts are
relevant only if we accept your -- your principal assertion,
which is that you -- you don't have to invoke the right and
interrogation must cease immediately. If we agree with
that, then all of these facts become relevant. But if
we think that, until you invoke the right, the police can
continue to ask you questions and it's up to you to
answer or not, then those facts are really not relevant
at all, are they?
I think that's true.
MS. JACOBS: I don't want to say it's true
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: It wasn't meant to be a
trick question.
MS. JACOBS: -- just because you are asking
it.
If you invoke those -- if you invoke -- if
you hold that he has to invoke those rights.
JUSTICE SCALIA: On your theory, those --
those factual things are irrelevant, whether --
MS. JACOBS: Well, my theory is that you
don't get past the failure to get the waiver.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly, exactly.
MS. JACOBS: Yes.
Returning now to -- to the idea of the
pre-interrogation waiver, I would suggest to the Court
that that would return this -- this Court back to the
kind of test that Miranda stopped, which was the
applying the totality of the circumstances test, and
that you would then, again, revert to pre-Miranda law,
where -- and this I believe is what the Wayne County
prosecutor amicus wants to do, is just apply totality of
the -- the circumstances test to whether in fact someone
has waived their rights. And I would suggest to you that
Miranda has not been a failure, that this bright-line rule --
you give the rights, you get the waiver, then can you talk --
that that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I must say I've never
understood that to be the law, and I don't think it's
generally understood to be the law, that unless you get
a waiver right at the outset, you have to -- you have to
terminate interrogation. I think there are a lot of
police departments that don't -- I've never understood
that to be the rule.
MS. JACOBS: Justice Scalia, the opposite of
that then becomes the ability to keep the defendant in a
room, and the longer --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not saying it isn't a
good rule. It may be a good rule. But the issue here
is whether it is so clearly established that it was
unreasonable for the State court to think otherwise.
MS. JACOBS: And we would just suggest that
the State court applied Moseley incorrectly and applied
Miranda, that those are the clearly established law
in that case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I like clear rules. Your
rule is a clear one. Another clear one would be just
the opposite of yours; that is, that interrogation can
continue unless he asserts his right. That's another
clear rule. We can go either way, and it will be clear.
MS. JACOBS: But if interrogation continues,
the longer it continues the less likely that the
statement that is taken is going to be the product of my
client's free will. So the government is going to have
an even greater burden in trying to prove that this
statement was voluntary or that the waiver of rights is
voluntary.
So this Court should not adopt a
pre-interrogation waiver rule, especially not one
that -- that ends up being as long as this case is, and
just in case --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me when
the police have to stop? They read somebody their
rights; the person says nothing. Are you saying at that
point they have to stop?
MS. JACOBS: I think that they can say to
the person: Do you now want to waive your right and
talk to us or do you want to remain silent? I think
that that's an easy and expedient answer. If --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But he doesn't answer. He
just sits there --
MS. JACOBS: Then that's it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- impassively.
MS. JACOBS: Then that's it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Then they have to stop?
MS. JACOBS: There's no burden -- I mean,
then the burden isn't met, this heavy burden that he
has knowingly, intelligently, and voluntarily waived
those rights.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't see how you
square that with Moseley.
MS. JACOBS: Well, Moseley says that the
longer that you question someone, that -- Moseley is the
persistent questioning case, where you keep questioning
the guy and questioning the guy. And this is very
clearly a Moseley case. You've got two officers in that
room, and they talk about the fact that they are both
questioning and they talk about the different themes
they used. And the very fact that they had to change
themes showed that the defendant was not being
cooperative and not -- and was not engaging in this
conversation willingly.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And all he has to
do is say: I don't want to talk to you. It's over.
MS. JACOBS: And all they had to say -- I've
got to take the flip side -- is -- and because it's their
house, because if they don't want to create the
ambiguity, they are the ones that have to say: Will
you talk to us now?
They don't even have to ask him to sign the
waiver, although I think the waiver is proof positive.
Once he signs the waiver, you know, I haven't got much
to argue in terms of the admissibility of the
confession. But if they create the ambiguity, then
according to Miranda, that ambiguity is resolved against
them.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't understand
how they create the ambiguity.
MS. JACOBS: Because they are leaving --
they're not moving off of square one. They're leaving
this, where they are not looking for an answer to
whether the rights want to be waived and they are
immediately, as they did in this case, going into
interview mode. They are going to start to question
him.
And this gets to Moseley, where, in fact, you
end up where you are badgering somebody, and in this case,
they used many different tactics: the softening technique --
- here, have a mint.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I guess this
gets back to a question I had earlier. I thought
there was no dispute on this record that there was no
involuntariness. We are talking about a violation of
the technical, important but formal, Miranda
requirements. This is not a case where the person says:
My statements were involuntary.
MS. JACOBS: If you are going to base this
on an implied waiver, don't you have to look to see what
the circumstances were that were going on? How can you
look at the very end of a 2-hour and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's correct --
and that's where -- how I read Butler; you have to look at
the circumstances. And you're saying no, you don't look at
any circumstances; they have got to ask the question and
he has to waive.
MS. JACOBS: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The other
circumstances are irrelevant.
Well then, if yes, why are you talking to me
about 2 hours 15 minutes, what they are doing? You say
that circumstances don't matter.
MS. JACOBS: If you find that the officer
does not have to ask the question, does not have to
clarify whether in fact the defendant is remaining
silent, then I do have to talk to the rest to try and
persuade you that in those 2 hours and 45 minutes he was
not being cooperative, he was not willingly entering
into --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That issue is not in
this case, though.
MS. JACOBS: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: As I understand it,
you've lost at every stage on the voluntariness and have
not renewed that, correct? This is a Miranda case; it's
not a Fifth Amendment case.
MS. JACOBS: I did -- I did talk about
voluntariness in my brief to this Court.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your argument would be the
same if this was compressed to 45 minutes?
MS. JACOBS: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Same result?
MS. JACOBS: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: 30 minutes?
MS. JACOBS: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: 15?
MS. JACOBS: Yes.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One? I mean,
that's -- I don't want to piggyback off
Justice Kennedy's point, but that's the whole point, is
you do not look at any of those circumstances, you say.
Before they can say anything more, they have to get a
waiver. So it's 30 seconds if they go on, before
they -- if they sit there for how long before -- how
long do they have to ask, do you want to waive?
MS. JACOBS: If -- if you were going to go
and use implied waiver, if -- and I think that you can use
an implied waiver, you -- you are interested in looking at
what happened in this case to decide whether, in fact,
the "yes" answers were an implied waiver. And that's why
I'm arguing about the circumstances, that there's
nothing in these circumstances that could lead you to
believe that after 2 hours and 45 minutes, there was a
voluntary waiver, the implied waiver.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could -- could you
describe a situation where you think there would be an
implied waiver?
MS. JACOBS: I'm willing to talk to you, but
I won't put anything in writing. I'll willing to listen
to what you have to say, but I'm not going to answer
your questions. And then your -- then as the
conversation -- a conversation ensues, and I think this
is what Justice Alito --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought
that -- that doesn't sound implied. That sounds
express to me.
MS. JACOBS: Okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait. Excuse me. A waiver
of what? I thought the Chief Justice was talking about
a waiver of your right to remain silent.
MS. JACOBS: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That wasn't a waiver --
MS. JACOBS: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- of his right to remain
silent.
MS. JACOBS: Then let me give another
example of a waiver of the right to remain silent.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm willing to talk to you,
I'm willing to listen to you. It seems to me you're
confusing a -- a waiver of -- of the right to remain
silent with a waiver of the right not to be
interrogated, which is the right that you are asserting
here, a right not to be interrogated, unless going
in you say, I waive my right to remain silent. That's --
that's the new right that you are asserting.
MS. JACOBS: Well, it's not a new right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: A right not to be
interrogated.
MS. JACOBS: It's -- it's not a new right.
It's not a new right. The police cannot interrogate the
defendant unless they read him his rights and my
understanding of Miranda is that they obtain a waiver of
those rights.
Without obtaining the waiver, questioning
cannot ensue, because then the rest of the questioning
becomes trying to talk the defendant into waiving the
rights, trying to talk the defendant into confessing,
and you have badgering and you have persistent
questioning, and you don't end up with a volitional
waiver or a volitional statement.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So what --
what is an implied waiver case?
MS. JACOBS: Well, it's -- the implied
waiver case is North Carolina v. Butler.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's right.
Now, getting back to Ms. Saharsky's point, she said if you
prevail, you have to overrule Butler. And it seems to
me that that's the point we're at.
MS. JACOBS: But Butler -- I don't think you
have to overrule Butler, because Butler really was a
right to counsel case. It did talk about the right to
remain silent, but most of language has to do with the
fact that this gentleman did not waive the right to
counsel.
So, I don't think you have to. I think you
can still have implied waivers.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, there's --
so, there's no implied waiver with respect to the right
to remain silent?
MS. JACOBS: That's a hard question, and I
don't have -- I don't have an easy answer or a hard
answer for you. I -- I don't think that -- I don't
think that you want to hog-tie the police. I agree with
that. I think that the police should be able to talk to a
defendant, but there's got -- but it's got to be
voluntary, and that in order to do that, you really have
to get a waiver.
U.S. v. Cardwell I think is an implied
waiver where the defendant starts to talk to the officer
there -- they're in a police car, and the defendant
starts to talk to the officer after an hour and a half
of silence, although that, again, isn't a custodial
situation, but the police found -- but the court found
that that was, in fact, a waiver.
So if there are no further questions, I'll
cede my time. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Restuccia, you have 4 minutes remaining.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I have to say that --
page 475 and 476, particularly, of Miranda do talk in
terms of a -- of a waiver. Did -- are there -- did the
subsequent cases indicate an articulation of that view
that's closer to your position?
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF B. ERIC RESTUCCIA
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. RESTUCCIA: Well, I think Miranda itself
contemplates pre-waiver interrogation. If you look at
page 14 of the -- of the reply brief, the yellow brief,
and the quote from Miranda talking about the processes is,
on page 14, "Once warnings have been given, the
subsequent procedure is clear. If" -- it's on page --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What page is --
MR. RESTUCCIA: Page 14 on the left side in
the middle. It's a block quote from Miranda. This is
Miranda's description of the processes: "Once warnings
have been given, the subsequent procedure is clear. If
the individual indicates in any manner at any time prior
to or during questioning, that he wishes to remain
silent, the interrogation must cease." The --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, why doesn't it --
JUSTICE BREYER: But I don't think that was the
question. The question, at least as I understood it, is
that Miranda says you cannot admit a confession into
evidence unless he has first waived it.
MR. RESTUCCIA: That's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Then it says, clearly, that
even if the police and the prosecution testify he did
waive it, even if they say he did, explicitly, still, if
there's a long questioning, even then, the court should
be very careful about admitting it.
MR. RESTUCCIA: Right. But then --
JUSTICE BREYER: And doesn't it flow from
that a fortiori that if he doesn't admit it and all there
is, is the long questioning that, there has been no
waiver?
MR. RESTUCCIA: But here Mr. Thompkins
answered a series of questions knowing --
JUSTICE BREYER: He answered three
questions.
MR. RESTUCCIA: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. One, do you
believe in God? Yes.
Two, do you pray to God? Yes.
Three, have you asked God for forgiveness
for shooting the boy? Yes.
Okay. So, where -- where did he waive it?
MR. RESTUCCIA: He -- that's what the
Federal courts have done on direct review -- this is what
Cardwell did, and there are five or six circuits have
found the answers to the questions themselves can be the
best --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, in this case, after 2
hours and 15 minutes when he gave the answers I just
said, when did he waive his Miranda rights?
MR. RESTUCCIA: When he answered those
questions, because the --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I think any then -- then
Miranda is --
MR. RESTUCCIA: No, because --
JUSTICE BREYER: It says you can't admit the stuff
after a long questioning unless he waives. Obviously, he says
something or there would be nothing to admit.
MR. RESTUCCIA: The -- that's what the
Federal courts have done in applying Butler, because the
words and actions of the person interrogated can give
rise to the inference that the person has waived. Where
the person has taken action that's inconsistent with the
exercise of his rights, it is proper to find waiver.
The -- this --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask, can you go back
to page 14 in your reply brief? "Once warnings have
been given, the subsequent procedure is clear. If the
individual indicates in any manner, at any time prior to
or during questioning, that he wishes to remain silent,
the interrogation must cease."
MR. RESTUCCIA: Right.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So the question is whether
during those two hours by not answering a -- a number of
questions, did he indicate in any way that he wished to
remain silent?
MR. RESTUCCIA: Right. That this -- so if
you look at the implication analysis, did he make it clear
that I don't want to participate in this interrogation?
Detective Helgert's testimony --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Then it says that any -- in
any manner that he wished to remain silent. And until
the 2 hours and a half later when he did answer the
three questions, that's pretty -- it's at least arguable
that his silence indicated he wished to remain silent.
MR. RESTUCCIA: Well, what happens, though,
in Davis, this Court made clear for the purpose of
invocation, that the invocation has to be unambiguous
because the police have to know when they have to cut
off their questioning. The -- so, if it's ambiguous,
it's ultimately, for the question of invocation, his
burden to assert the right to take an affirmative action
to show, I don't want to answer any questions.
Detective Helgert believed, through his
limited responses, the give and take of part of this
interview, that he was a willing participant in the
interview. This is the factual record that was
established by the State courts. It's important to
remember that this case being reviewed in habeas that
those factual determinations are entitled to deference
unless disproven.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. RESTUCCIA: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:00 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
60:23 43:19 45:10 anybody 36:18 31:17 believed 60:10
aimed 31:9 apparently 40:2 28:13 54:4,7 Berghuis 1:3 3:5
33:2 33:4,15,16 35:4 Appeals 44:9,13 31:13 33:8 40:6 better 39:23
53:9 1:14 47:15 block 57:1
21:16,21 40:14 47:9 Assistant 1:17 boy 23:9 39:6
43:3 allowed 8:3,4 apply 3:13 33:9 27:20 30:9 Brennan 25:13
alternative 29:8 applying 12:1 28:22 BREYER 5:21
28:19 Amendment 49:19 a.m 1:13 3:2 26:15,23 35:10
3:19 20:25 arguing 52:22 60:22 35:19,23 36:2
51:21 2:2,10 3:4,7 B 58:3,14,19,22
46:13 30:15,20 31:19 56:16 27:2 51:23
56:16 22:1,13 42:13 bright-line 46:16
14:3 articulated 15:7 59:7 burden 7:2 17:7
58:22
16:2 articulation badgering 50:8 17:8 22:5 23:19
19:3 56:14 54:20 27:14 47:21
26:10 asked 4:21 5:12 bag 39:23 48:17,18,18
25:1 35:16
32:25,25 5:18 16:7 38:10 base 50:18 60:8
36:4,19 38:23 43:2,9 basically 32:21 Butler 3:23 4:10
45:14 58:6 basis 18:8 4:10,18,19,25
50:2 asking 13:7,18 beginning 32:23 6:11,13 8:8
55:18,19 27:3 36:2 42:3 behalf 1:16,21 14:20,21 15:2,5
60:9 45:21 2:4,9,12 3:8 15:7,7 17:6,20
29:15 31:4 56:17 21:24 22:2
57:24,25 aspects 7:4 16:15 behavior 26:1 23:17 24:13
assert 14:10,14 28:6 25:14 27:8
34:11 chances 37:25 33:6 34:24 23:18 24:4,7,10 33:8 34:13
38:8 change 14:15 40:21,25 44:7 32:9 33:20 43:17 55:8,11
50:23 17:16 26:1 49:5 47:6,10 49:2 49:20 57:10 56:9 60:18
CHESTER 1:6 57:13 confusing 54:2 country 26:7
Chief 3:3,9 11:2 client 32:20 constituted 24:5 County 46:12
19:21 37:12,23 constitutes 7:4 coupled 6:22
50:11,22 51:3 36:23 38:1 56:19 18:12 23:20,25
circuit 5:6 29:20 comes 20:7 24:12 continue 12:24 8:1,19,23 9:13
10:11 circuits 58:11 37:22 28:15 34:1,10 11:23 13:14,14
11:5,7,7 circumstance coming 17:21 35:24 36:7 13:17 15:6
20:8,21 14:19 35:20 command 41:6 37:10 45:13 17:22 18:14
24:3 circumstances comments 15:22 47:15 20:2,5,11,13,14
26:18 10:10,12 11:13 compel 27:10 continued 44:14 20:15 21:18
29:1 11:21 46:10,14 compelled 27:10 continues 47:17 22:2,8 23:13,19
31:9 50:20,24,25 compressed 47:18 24:13 27:9
33:1,5 51:4,7 52:12,22 51:25 continuing 45:4 28:18 30:16,23
34:13,25 52:23 conceding 24:23 continuously 31:2 32:19 33:5
36:17,20 citations 27:2 concession 24:4 13:7 43:21 44:8,13
37:1,11 cited 10:19 11:7 conclude 4:4 contrary 28:17 44:21 46:7,8
41:14 32:6 13:19 conversation 47:7,9,24 51:23
44:1 cites 26:17 concluded 12:4 37:6,9 49:8 56:5 57:16 60:3
48:1,2,25 claim 3:11,12,15 conclusion 6:24 53:8,8 courts 3:13 4:3
50:4,8,16 3:16 18:10 cooperating 4:23 8:2 15:5
clarify 51:10 conduct 4:2 5:2 42:12 17:21 18:1,3,5
54:24 clarifying 43:9 6:1,21,23 14:23 cooperation 30:16 58:10
58:14 clear 12:13,20,23 14:25 17:24 22:21 59:1 60:14
13:2,5,9,13,14 23:20,25 30:1 cooperative 49:7 Court's 23:22
56:14 17:12,22 29:10 confess 29:13 core 16:16 39:21
47:13,16,16 confesses 15:12 41:20 43:4 49:24
6:16 7:23 10:3 8:8 17:8 20:3 20:10,12 24:15 Cupp 10:19
59:21 60:10 either 38:10 exact 25:12,13 facts 11:4 15:4
44:1 election 16:10 18:1 27:23 46:4 45:3,7,11,14
21:18 DHS 27:3 27:3 53:15 fashion 4:7
42:20 60:3 difference 9:18 engage 36:22 exercise 5:22 favor 39:19
27:20 49:7 expedient 48:10 26:19 27:3
11:6 14:5 31:12 39:4 Explain 29:7 feeling 36:23
20:6,7 49:4 50:9 ensues 53:8 explanation 29:9 field 21:20
23:22 direct 8:2 18:2 entering 51:13 29:16 Fifth 3:19 20:24
31:2 58:10 entitled 29:8 explicitly 14:17 27:10 31:4
37:21 directs 35:3 ERIC 1:15 2:3 express 8:13 filled 26:3
41:9 dispels 10:25 2:11 3:7 56:16 15:2 24:14 find 10:11 30:24
43:1 disproven 60:17 especially 47:25 53:12 40:10 45:5 51:8
dispute 50:13 ESQ 1:15,17,21 expressed 13:25 59:5
49:6 51:10 dissent 25:14 2:3,5,8,11 expressly 4:5 finding 18:9
27:8 essentially 13:25 10:23 43:13 44:15
56:1,2 distinct 3:17 14:1 27:14 extent 40:19 fine 42:8
doctrine 12:1 establish 34:1 eye 44:22,25 first 3:4,17 20:14
establishes 33:5 20:24 22:4 forgiveness 5:20
E 2:1 3:1,1 22:5 27:13 28:7 form 4:6,7 24:17
30:6 50:12 8:5,21 19:17 36:23 44:20 formal 50:15
43:24 26:17 28:25 48:18 implicit 15:12 29:17 31:20,21
56:5 29:2,25 32:10 held 12:8 implicitly 14:18 inference 5:2
58:12 32:15,24 34:23 Helgert 12:6 implied 3:23 22:11 59:3
52:17 53:6 54:5 he's 14:7 32:15 43:19,22 50:19 inherently 10:25
31:3 36:6 21:3 22:6,8 hog-tie 55:20 54:25 55:13,15 instructed 26:7
56:7 47:20 45:24 impliedly 3:18 16:16 22:18
guidance 8:19 16:21,21 51:6 incompetent 6:18 15:9,19
guide 25:5 58:15 59:15,24 inconsistent 28:20,21 34:18
42:15 guy 24:1 49:1,1 Huh 38:19 incorrect 18:15 interrogation
43:5 guys 37:17 hypothetical 44:24 8:20,21,23 9:4
37:2,17,20,21 incorrectly 47:9 10:21 11:16
59:2 habeas 18:13 28:25 23:1 26:6 28:9
60:15 I indicate 12:2 30:10 31:5
26:5,9 11:5 16:20 56:3 identified 6:17 indicated 60:1 35:22 36:24
57:3 59:9 59:24 iffy 38:6 indicates 4:2 37:13 42:22
21:6,11,12 happening 19:5 27:9,12 indicating 6:23 interrogations
26:24 happens 19:9,18 immediately 15:9 8:24
47:16 31:6 60:2 6:12 26:20 indication 4:16 interrupt 36:25
59:7 hard 55:17,18 45:10 50:4 37:11 interview 3:21
58:4,5,6 hear 3:3 40:16 48:14 59:10 11:8 14:13
50:5 60:12 43:14,24 44:3,5 41:7,11,16 42:6 22:17 25:17 lengthy 8:20,21
44:7,12 45:17 42:9,15,23 43:4 26:2 27:2 29:21 8:23 9:4,10
29:1 47:1,8,17 48:7 44:6,11 45:7,19 33:25 34:7 36:3 letting 21:21
42:20 60:4 51:2,8,17,22 48:11,14,16,21 49:18 60:5 limited 4:7 5:7
52:1,3,5,7,17 49:9,23 50:11 knowing 5:1 7:5 60:11
42:16 53:23 54:8,11 51:18,24 52:2,4 16:16 19:2 32:24 36:11
43:11,15 54:25 55:6,17 52:6,9,11 53:1 22:17 23:7,23 37:4,12,17
justice 1:18 3:3,9 53:9,10,14,15 30:8 57:24 39:17,19 40:2
4:9,14 5:5,10 53:16,19,21,25 knowingly 4:1 40:13 53:5 54:1
43:17 6:20 7:1,10,10 56:9,11,24 57:7 18:6 24:18 29:2 listening 39:10
8:12,15 9:1,6 58:3,14,19,22 knowledge 38:23 11:11,21 21:15
10:6,9,15 11:2 60:18,20 L 35:22 48:1
12:12,19 13:2,5 K language 4:24 57:21 58:23
41:14 16:4,19 17:3,15 KENNEDY 10:9 22:14 23:16 47:3,18 48:24
51:15 18:16,22 19:4,7 10:15 11:3,12 24:13 30:24 look 6:16,19 7:4
57:1 20:1,23 21:4,9 22:10,25 24:20 Lansing 1:15 26:24 32:5,17
25:5,8,13,17,18 31:24 37:14 Laughter 52:8 50:23,24 52:12
27:7,19 51:24 52:2,4,6 9:25 10:3 11:7 looking 6:7 35:1
30:9,17,22 31:6 key 32:18 37:19 17:16 18:13 lost 51:19
32:1 31:19,24 32:21 kind 11:11 16:8 25:12 26:12,19 lot 46:23
34:3,12 33:4,15,16,18 34:19 37:16 27:3 40:22,25 loud 4:6
35:7,18 34:3,8,14 35:4 38:5 39:13 42:2 42:19 43:16
36:1,4,12 35:9,10,11,19 46:9 46:11,20,21 M
37:5,8 35:23 36:2,9,13 kinds 22:23 47:10 man 34:25
38:5,9,14 36:15,25 37:7 31:12 32:6 Lawyers 26:2 manner 57:4
37:14,16,20 knew 16:12 lead 32:19 52:23 59:10,23
40:8 38:2,5,7,13,15 know 7:8 8:9 leave 5:12 manual 26:10,16
41:2 38:19,20,21,22 9:16 15:19 leaving 49:25 manuals 26:3,12
42:8 39:1,5,6,9,16 16:20 20:12 50:1 26:24
43:4 40:9,14,18,24 21:21 22:9,16 left 39:23 56:25 March 1:9
60:23 58:16,20 North 20:11 55:1 30:20 picked 22:2
22:19 23:4 21:1 57:2 notes 8:20 38:22 55:23 pin 39:22
26:15 misrepresenta... nub 16:9 outset 46:22 plan 3:14
35:11 44:19 number 44:22 overarching play 16:20
39:9,19 mode 43:7 50:5 59:15 18:13 playing 21:20
52:9 modified 17:6 overrule 21:24 please 3:10 20:2
Monday 1:9 objectively 18:12 P point 6:5 13:6
3:13 4:3 48:22,23,24 obtained 20:19 56:24,25 59:8 55:3,5
12:1 15:6 49:2 50:7 22:5 pages 35:13 police 3:20 7:17
44:8,13 move 33:13 obtaining 54:16 paragraphs 9:2,7 12:24
moved 43:7 Obviously 58:23 38:24 15:14 16:13,17
9:9 12:3 N 2:1,1 3:1 officer 29:8 35:2 participated 4:7 25:6,9,15 26:3
NAC 26:2 35:3 38:6,9 9:14 26:5,6,10,12,14
51:6,12 name 10:6 39:14 42:3 43:6 participating 26:19,24 27:8
52:4,24 near 5:24 43:9 44:24 51:8 9:18,19 14:7 27:12,17,17
58:15 necessary 24:16 56:1,3 particularly 28:15 29:2
8:20,25 33:19 39:7,8 49:2 pattern 14:12 33:12 36:17,22
12:8,10 needed 24:7,8 Okay 5:25 12:22 people 26:8 37:9,9 38:6,9
14:16,20 negative 22:11 13:5 21:9 25:4 persistent 48:25 39:14,20 40:11
16:9,9 neither 19:11,12 28:10 35:18 54:20 41:8 42:14,25
19:16 19:13 28:14 38:25 53:13,20 person 5:3 6:18 45:12 46:24
neutral 5:15 54:23 58:8 8:5 11:9 12:6,9 48:4 54:12
22:2 never 6:8,23 16:5 once 10:23 12:23 12:21 15:9,18 55:20,21 56:2,5
23:21 29:19 36:10 26:5 42:4 43:6 27:24 28:20,20 57:14 60:5
28:1 42:16 43:1 49:18 56:22 28:25 32:7 police's 26:1
31:2 46:19,24 57:2 59:8 34:18 36:9 37:2 29:5
new 54:7,8,11,12 ones 49:14 40:3 48:5,8 portion 38:16,18
nice 16:4 one's 8:4 50:16 59:2,3,4 position 6:9 8:16
41:13,19 NICOLE 1:17 operating 15:6 persuade 51:12 10:5,8 11:3
46:9,16 2:5 19:23 opposed 40:14 pertinent 41:1 15:11 56:15
49:21 nod 29:20 opposite 47:1,14 Petitioner 1:4,16 positive 49:17
51:20 nodded 38:11 oppressed 37:22 1:20 2:4,7,12 positively 27:21
49:17 12:17 21:6,14 reasonable 13:17 remains 3:24
proposing 36:21 48:25 49:1,4 19:20 56:16 10:22 38:10
19:17 31:25 57:5,16,21 receive 17:24 Remove 39:15
prosecution 58:23 59:11 received 3:25 renewed 51:20
7:1 7:7,9 13:8,18 reception 5:1 8:3 require 31:17
protection 21:19 16:2,6,12,13 recollection 38:3 6:10 31:3,13
33:10 prove 47:21 20:5 25:18 13:10 38:3 requirements
41:3 provide 8:5 26:10 29:11,15 40:13 44:9,19 50:16
41:3 provision 14:22 30:7 32:24 reflect 29:23 resolved 42:3
46:7 p.m 10:20,20 58:18 59:16,25 28:7 Respondent 1:22
60:9 regarding 3:22 2:9 23:6 26:15
quarter 8:17 9:3 quotations 26:3 Reid 26:1 Respondent's
11:20 44:23 56:21 30:16 response 30:6
41:3,5 13:20,21,23 ran 11:8 remain 3:20 4:15 4:13,18 5:9,16
59:9 33:15,25 35:13 38:15,17,23 43:16 48:9 9:22,25 10:5,8
43:19,20 45:20 50:23 54:13 54:2,6 55:9,16 11:15,24 12:10
50:25 51:9 really 3:17 4:24 59:23 60:1 13:21 14:11,21
47:19 59:14 60:7 32:18 33:16 4:21 9:14 16:8,25 17:14
18:19,24 54:5,6,7,8,9,11 S 40:9 45:7,19,25 9:7,14,19 24:15
54:12 55:2,8,8 S 2:1 3:1 46:4,19 47:1,4 31:11,16,21
55:10,15 57:12 Saharsky 1:17 47:12 48:11,14 33:9 40:20,23
57:18 58:2,3 2:5 19:22,23 48:16 53:15,19 42:7,20 43:15
59:13,18 60:8 20:1 21:8,10,15 53:21,25 54:9 48:9 51:11
60:2 rights 3:18 4:1,5 22:13 23:4 24:6 second 3:19 22:1 53:17,22,24
4:6 8:4,6 10:24 24:22,25 25:4,7 42:21 54:3,6 55:9,16
14:24 16:15,23 26:16 27:1,23 see 13:21,22,22 59:23 60:1
58:10 24:19 26:20 saying 5:12 6:2 Seibert 34:6 singing 39:21
31:12 34:15,16 14:9 21:5 23:5 33:12 41:6 sits 15:20 48:12
5:23 42:12 43:1,2,3 27:19 28:5 series 5:19 7:6 situation 29:18
7:3 9:5 43:11 45:6,24 32:22 36:10 16:12 29:15 42:1,2 53:2
10:13,18 46:15,17 47:22 42:15 43:14,25 57:24 56:5
12:9 48:5,20 50:3 47:4 48:5 50:24 serve 18:8 situations 33:6
54:13,15,19 says 7:19 8:8 9:2 sets 14:20 six 58:11
15:23 58:16 59:5 9:7,21 12:22,23 shakes 5:13 Sixth 44:12,14
17:20 rise 59:3 13:8,18 15:7,25 Shatzer 23:22 44:18,23
ritual 31:5 34:6 16:9,9 17:18 shooting 58:7 softening 50:9
20:4,9,9 ROBERTS 3:3 20:16 22:14 short 10:21 Solicitor 1:15,17
21:12 11:2,19 19:21 26:8,16 29:25 shot 23:9 solid 38:12
24:15 30:17 31:6 30:25 32:8,12 show 7:16 11:12 somebody 32:13
27:10,21 40:18,24 41:11 32:14 34:4 36:9 23:18 60:9 48:4 50:8
28:2,3,12 41:16 42:6,9 36:13 37:2 showed 28:6 someone's 8:16
43:10,18 44:2,4 40:15,22 43:11 29:12 49:6 29:18
31:10 44:6,11 49:9,23 43:20 48:5,23 showing 17:7,9 sorry 23:4 27:1
50:11,22 51:3 50:16 57:10,13 shows 24:6 43:17
51:15,18 52:9 58:22,23 59:22 side 49:12 56:25 SOTOMAYOR
33:8 53:1,10,14 Scalia 9:20,23 sign 28:1,8 29:25 5:5,10 7:18,22
34:12 54:23 55:2,14 10:2,6 15:17,24 43:6 49:16 8:1,7,12,15
56:9 60:18,20 16:4,19 18:16 signing 6:14 14:15 15:1,10
40:1,6,7 room 47:3 49:3 18:22 19:4,7,11 signs 49:18 29:4 48:3
41:4,5 rule 10:10,16 19:13 20:23 silence 6:22 Sotomayor's
14:16,19 15:25 27:19,25 28:4 13:13 14:8,22 7:11
43:15 16:22 19:16 28:10,12 30:9 14:23 15:2 17:5 sound 53:11
20:24 27:13 33:18 34:3,8,14 17:7,18,22 20:9 sounds 53:11
45:9,12 28:17 46:16,25 35:11 38:13,15 20:17 32:4 56:4 special 35:20
47:15 47:5,5,13,16,25 38:19,20,21 60:1 specific 27:2
53:17,21 rules 18:4 47:12 39:1,5,6,9,16 silent 3:20,24 speech 32:11
54:2,3,4 4:15,17,20,21 spill 29:25
60:21,23 20:10 22:18,20 56:15 17:12 35:4
48:22 14:23 56:14,23 30:8 31:10 theory 45:25 53:10,16
57:3 59:9 32:12,14,15,23 46:2 threats 7:17
23:20 suffice 21:14 39:17,24 40:1,4 14:9 22:25 58:6 59:25
13:17 suggested 7:8 51:11,22 53:4 thing 22:1 28:13 59:10
24:8 37:17 53:25 54:18,19 32:2 35:8 times 44:22,22
43:16 suggestion 11:16 55:8,21 56:1,3 things 22:23 26:4 45:1
47:7,9 41:17,18,21 56:12 46:1 today 26:6
sullen 35:1 talked 20:15 think 8:7 9:11 told 21:16 40:19
13:25 14:4 supporting 1:19 talking 12:19 17:20 20:23 trial 20:4,25
17:4 23:9 2:7 19:25 29:19 41:11,12 24:12 31:8 22:16 23:2 25:1
28:15 suppose 12:21 41:13,23 44:16 33:10,20 35:11 25:24 26:22
30:12 Supreme 1:1,12 45:5 50:14 51:5 35:11 36:12 27:11 29:1
37:16 3:14 10:3 13:14 53:16 56:21 37:5,8,15,19 trick 45:20
54:22 13:14 20:11 talks 8:25 12:10 38:11,11,17 true 45:16,17
27:11 sure 24:21 32:1 technical 50:15 44:3,7 45:12,16 51:11
41:17 33:16 39:18,25 technique 50:9 46:20,23 47:7 trying 18:4 39:21
suspect 3:24,25 tell 5:5 14:16 48:7,9 49:17 47:21 54:18,19
14:21 19:24 16:11 18:6 39:24 48:3 55:6,12,12,19 16:15 17:10
38:2,5,7 T terms 8:19 49:19 thinking 18:3 typical 26:3,12
59:7,14,22 T 2:1,1 56:13 thinks 39:13
take 21:2 27:14 testify 12:6 57:14 3:5,18 4:4 7:6 33:20
47:19 59:4 60:18,19 Thompkins's unambiguous
virtually 14:18 11:14,17,17 26:21,24 28:8 54:1 60:12
voluntarily 15:12 17:4,9,11 34:21,21 36:4 willingness 26:9
15:4 32:13 48:19 18:23 19:3,16 39:23 40:1,2,3 wish 14:3,13
22:7 23:3 voluntariness 20:8,9,13,16,22 40:4,16 42:4,7 wished 4:21
25:2 23:15 29:23 21:3,6,25 22:4 45:17 48:8,9 59:16,23 60:1
29:24 30:15 41:14 22:12,15 23:6,7 49:10,13 50:3 wishes 57:5
37:1,1 45:6 51:19,23 23:17,24 24:5 52:10,16 55:20 59:11
51:18 voluntary 7:5 24:14,16,24 59:20 60:9 word 5:8
20:20 22:18 23:8,24 25:24 26:5,20 40:10,13 8:10 15:8 28:19
29:18 30:2,8,13 26:22 27:5,6,9 wants 46:13 29:7 59:2
33:24 34:18,23 28:14,19,23 warning 26:9 wouldn't 16:5
24:9 47:22,23 52:25 31:20,21 32:4 warnings 3:25 write 39:3,4
38:4,11 55:23 33:3 34:2,5,9 12:16,16 14:23 writing 34:22
volunteered 4:15 34:17,24 35:5,7 17:19,23 21:15 53:5
36:6,12,14 37:7 31:3 34:5 36:5 written 24:14
19:24 Wait 9:20 53:15 46:3,7,17,22 56:22 57:2 59:8
18:12,15 12:22,24 13:24 49:17,18 50:19 1:18 x 1:2,7
44:1,10 13:24 14:1,7,13 52:14,18,19,21 wasn't 15:1
37:3 43:1 Y
47:7 52:25,25 53:3 34:19 45:4,19
48:8 yeah 9:15 36:20
52:16 54:6 yellow 56:20
4:4 54:2,3,14,16,22 wasn't 15:1
57:15 young 34:25
you'd 39:23
36:17 55:24 56:1,6,13 26:24 39:20
12:13,21 16:22 24:23,23
waivers 55:13 47:16 59:16
25:21 27:19
19:10 28:5 32:21
ways 26:17
23:1,2 we'll 21:6
28:7 32:16 36:7 54:1
36:10,15 we're 55:5
42:12 we've 38:12
20:16 48:19 50:3 49:2
We'll 3:3
1:13 3:2 9
60:22 9 11:8
56:20,22,25
5:22 6:1 7:12
12:3 13:7
16:21
52:6 58:15
2:7
5:21 6:1 7:11
9:3,9,9,21
10:3,16
12:2
16:21,21
52:24
59:24
50:21
1:9
2:4 10:17
2:9 52:4,14
10:17 56:10
51:12,25
31:2 34:4
35:17 56:12
16:21
10:20
2:12
10:20
16:21
11:8
