IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ROBERT MORRISON, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 08-1191
NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK :
LTD., ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, March 29, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:07 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
THOMAS A. DUBBS, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of
Petitioners.
GEORGE T. CONWAY, III, ESQ., New York, New York; on
behalf of Respondents.
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THOMAS A. DUBBS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GEORGE T. CONWAY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 26
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.
On behalf of United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondents 43
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS A. DUBBS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 52
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:07 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next this morning in Case 08-1191, Morrison v.
National Australia Bank.
Mr. Dubbs.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS A. DUBBS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. DUBBS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Given that the issue of subject matter
jurisdiction appears not to be in dispute, the issues
before the Court today are:
First, the scope of section 10(b) of the
1934 Exchange Act when applied to alleged fraudulent
conduct with respect to financial information that is to
be sent to Australia for incorporation into the
financial statements of the Respondent, National
Australia Bank.
And second, the reasonableness of the
application of the statute under these circumstances and
the norms of enforcement pursuant to the private cause
of action or otherwise.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess there's also the
issue of whether, if everybody is agreed that it is not
a jurisdictional question, that's the end of the case.
I mean, as I recall, the other side says we shouldn't
get to the merits.
MR. DUBBS: Your Honor, it's our view that
that -- that is a possible outcome, which of course as I
understand it would leave -- leave the decision below
standing. We have urged in the supplemental brief that
it may want to remand for consideration of the change of
position of the Securities and Exchange Commission with
respect to the tests that they have -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you are not -- you are
not pressing that?
MR. DUBBS: No, we still believe that the
best way to handle the case is to remand; but we leave
that for the Court's discretion.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why wouldn't that simply
be going through the motions? The Second Circuit put
the wrong label on it, but everything it said could have
been plugged into: Our decision is under Rule 12(b)(6)
rather than 12(b)(1)?
MR. DUBBS: Well, Your Honor, the question
and the issue is inherently somewhat speculative as to
what the Second Circuit would do, but we would rely not
necessarily only on the subject matter jurisdiction
issues being addressed -- and Your Honor is quite right
that they may say, well, the label's changed, but
everything else stays the same. What we particularly
thought might be instructive for this Court is to hear
what the Second Circuit that sits in our nation's
financial capital thought of a new fact, and that new
fact is that for the first time the Securities and
Exchange Commission has come in and said as a matter of
administrative deference the Court should defer to our
test in cases like that.
Sure, they have submitted amicus briefs in
the past. They have done lots of things. But this is
the first time they have said: We as the agency
responsible for the statute have said this is how courts
should handle the case. That's what's new and
different, but if Your Honors don't wish to proceed
along that line we are prepared to go forward on -- on
the merits here today.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it seems to me that
isn't worth anything, right? I mean, that's -- they
haven't conducted a rulemaking or anything.
MR. DUBBS: Well, they haven't conducted -
JUSTICE SCALIA: They just -- just appeared
in court.
MR. DUBBS: Well, they haven't conducted a
full rulemaking that would be entitled to Chevron
deference.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. DUBBS: But they have done something
less than that. And whether it's entitled to deference,
Skidmore deference, or something lesser than that is an
open point. But so we leave it to the Court's decision
as to whether it is just -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except that they don't come
out on your side anyway, do they?
MR. DUBBS: Well, Your Honor, they come out
on our side except for that last turn they make at the
end, where they -- they bring in the intervening clause
at the end of the last act. Other than that -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How could they come down
on your side if they say there is no private right of
action?
MR. DUBBS: Well, they didn't say there was
no private right of action. What they said was there
was no private right of action in this case because of
their application of the intervening clause test, which
we submit was error and clear error in light of the
factors that have to go into the intervening -
JUSTICE SCALIA: We are only talking about
this case. I mean -
MR. DUBBS: Sorry?
JUSTICE SCALIA: We are only talking about
this case, right? If we send it back, we send it back
to have this case decided and they'd come out against
you in this case.
MR. DUBBS: They -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So what could -- and that
is going to change the Second Circuit's view of things,
the fact that, in addition to their initial opinion, it
has been reconfirmed, although on different grounds,
by -- by the government?
MR. DUBBS: Your Honor -
JUSTICE SCALIA: There is no reason to send
it back.
MR. DUBBS: Well, Your Honor, it's -- it's
up to the Court. I mean, it's your -- you're basically
educating -- making an educated guess as to whether the
Second Circuit would pay attention to the SEC. In the
past, they have. They may not now.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dubbs, you said
something that I thought quite revealing in this -- in
your brief. I mean, this case is Australian plaintiff,
Australian defendant, shares purchased in Australia. It
has "Australia" written all over it. And in your reply
brief you said: "If the Plaintiff is a foreign
securities purchaser as this one is, Sinochem makes it
clear that forum non conveniens may dictate dismissal of
an action brought in the U.S."
And taking that, why not -- of the
applicable laws to this transaction, to this alleged
fraud, isn't the most appropriate choice the law of
Australia rather than the law of the United States?
MR. DUBBS: No -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not just a question of
proper forum, but the proper law?
MR. DUBBS: No, Your Honor. We think that,
given the scope of section 10(b), American law can and
should be applied here. And we respectfully disagree
with the observation that this case has "Australia"
written all over it. Indeed, from our point of view it
has "Florida" written all over it because Florida is
where the numbers were doctored, Florida is where the
fraudulent conduct in putting the phony assumptions into
the valuation portfolio were done. Everything
happened -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If all that were done and
it were never communicated, there wouldn't be any
violation.
MR. DUBBS: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the communication was
done in Australia by the Australian bank.
MR. DUBBS: The communication was done
between Florida and -- and Australia, and the senior
management of HomeSide in Florida created those numbers
with the expectation and the knowledge that those would
go into the financial statement. So that means there is
substantial conduct in Florida in terms of the fraud.
They made the misrepresentation pursuant to what "make"
means, pursuant to the 1934 dictionary.
They engaged in hard-core fraudulent conduct
by doctoring the books, by putting the phony assumptions
into the computer model. Without that there wouldn't
have been a phony number. In one sense it's a one-issue
case, or a one-number case, which is the mortgage
servicing rights number that appears on -- on the
balance sheet at page 11 -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's -- let's go back to
the question that I asked you about the appropriate
forum. You -- you seem to give this very case -- the
plaintiff is a foreign securities purchaser. When the
plaintiff's choice is not -- is not its home forum, the
presumption in the plaintiff's favor applies with less
force, et cetera. But you have an Australian plaintiff
suing in the United States based on shares purchased in
Australia and the lead defendant is the Australian bank.
So what -- what did you mean when you were
referring to Sinochem and forum non conveniens?
MR. DUBBS: We meant two things, Your Honor.
The first thing we meant was that, in addition to the
other tests that are proposed, putting Sinochem at the
beginning of the train would sort out some of these
questions in general. That's in general.
As to our particular case, we believe we
would win a forum non conveniens argument, though one
was never made and that was not explored by any district
judge. And we would win that because the statute
specifically provides in section 10(b) that fraud can be
caused in any number of ways -- three ways, including
through the mails, through foreign or interstate
commerce, or over an exchange. And that fraud was
caused in Florida and the mails were used and it was in
foreign or interstate commerce.
And the people who committed the fraud on a
nuts-and-bolts level are the senior management who are
defendants from HomeSide bank in Florida, so to that
extent it is a Florida case. And we also think that any
district judge in looking at a forum non motion would
also look at the various interests of National Australia
Bank in HomeSide in the United States to judge the
overall fairness of letting the suit proceed against
them and to counter the issue that this is really all
about Australia.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, wouldn't your clients
have an adequate remedy under Australian law in
Australia, in the Australian court system?
MR. DUBBS: We might or we might not. But
that is not determinative.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let's assume that -
that they do not. Let's assume that on the facts of
this case they could not prevail under Australian law in
the Australian court system. Then what United States
interest is there -
MR. DUBBS: There -
JUSTICE ALITO: -- that should override
that?
MR. DUBBS: There is a strong United States
interest. It's on two levels. The first strong United
States -- United States interest deals with the conduct
at issue here, namely the conduct in Florida by
HomeSide. This was the sixth largest mortgage service
provider in the United States.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If we had only HomeSide's
conduct, nothing else, there wouldn't be any violation
of 10(b); is that right?
MR. DUBBS: We do not agree with that, Your
Honor. We believe that they made a representation by
creating the false numbers, or otherwise it's within the
scope of the statute. What they did is create a
deceptive device -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But nothing has happened.
Suppose it had been caught by the Australian bank, and
they didn't act on it?
MR. DUBBS: Your -- Your Honor, that goes to
a different element of the cause of action. That
doesn't go to the scope of the statute. That goes to
how the private cause of action is enforced.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Now, I concede your
argument that a big component of this fraud was what
went on in Florida, but it needed to be disclosed to the
public. It needed to be put out there. And that wasn't
done in Florida by the Florida defendants.
MR. DUBBS: It was done in Australia and we
can prove that. And -- the point is we are not -- all
we are proving through doing that is the effects of the
fraud in Florida. To use Professor Beale's example,
where you have poison candy in one jurisdiction, that
poison candy is sent to another jurisdiction, and in the
first jurisdiction there is a law that says "thou shalt
not make poison candy;" through the exercise of
legislative jurisdiction that statute in the first
jurisdiction is appropriate, and both jurisdictions have
an interest in that.
Now, if we are in the poison candy
jurisdiction and we are bringing a case about poison
candy, if the statute in addition says, "you have to
show some harm from the poison candy," indeed you might
as a matter of proof have to show effects from that
other forum. But that's different than regulating
conduct in the second forum or anything else in the
second forum. That is simply looking at the statute or
the legal prescription against making poison candy. And
we say section 10(b) is like the poison candy statute.
JUSTICE ALITO: Which of your standards -
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, that's -- I would like
you to follow that up specifically. That is, in my mind
the difficult issue in this case is not the
jurisdictional issue under principles of international
law. It's the question of the scope of the statute.
And there the things against you are three. One is
Professor Sachs's argument, which I would like to know
your answer to. The second is in Judge Friendly's two
opinions.
The first opinion -- the second one, rather,
Bersch, he says if you had a foreign exchange and
foreign plaintiffs as -- and there was no foreign
plaintiff, the security issued over a foreign exchange,
even if that fraud takes place totally in the United
States, the statute wouldn't cover it. That's Friendly,
which started this.
And the third thing is what he says in
Leasco. He says: We cannot see any sound reason for
not taking your position, at least for the plaintiffs
who are Americans. Okay?
Now, France, Britain and Australia have
filed briefs in this case giving what they consider very
sound reasons, which are reasons that Judge Friendly
never considered. And those three reasons, as we know,
is they point to a number of conflicts, that if you win,
how that will interfere with their efforts to regulate
their own securities markets, right?
That's all one question: Professor Sachs,
Friendly in Bersch, and Friendly in Leasco. But that's
what I'd like to hear your answer to.
MR. DUBBS: I will try to keep the subparts
in mind. Why don't we start from the end and try to
work backwards. Perhaps one of the most important parts
of the record is the Solicitor General's view that as a
general matter -- and I will get to the specifics; I'm
not ducking that. But as a general matter the
enforcement of the securities laws, unlike the antitrust
laws, has not historically and today they do not believe
runs -- raises a substantial risk of interstate
conflict.
Now, as to the specific briefs that Your
Honor referenced, if we look at those briefs and we look
at those compared to what happened in Hartford Fire,
those briefs -- and let's focus on Australia's for the
moment because that's the country we are talking about.
Australia's brief essentially says they have a
regulatory system that may -- that we may or may not
have been able to litigate this cause of action in
Australia, but let's assume that we could.
They are not saying -- they did not say in
that brief that there was some fundamental conflict,
like the plurality found in Hartford Fire; nor did they
say that there was the kind of conflict that comes up in
the application of 403(h) of the Restatement, which
Justice Scalia looked to in his opinion in Hartford
Fire. So there is not the kind of conflict that leads
necessarily -- necessarily -- to not reasonably applying
the statute.
The reason there's not is that because, one,
there is not a rule in Australia that one has to abide
by and a rule in the United States that one has to abide
by that are contradictory. At most, what you have is
you have a clear rule in the United States that says
thou shalt not commit fraud in Florida through either
the Florida through either -- for or in interstate
commerce, the mails or through an exchange. And on the
other side of the equation what you have is maybe they
could have brought suit over here and we have a robust
regulatory system and a robust litigation system; more
power to them.
But that doesn't mean -- saying that, that
doesn't mean that the first State where the poison candy
was made suddenly has no interest in that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but -- but Australia
says: Look, it's up to us to decide whether there has
been a misrepresentation, point one; and whether it's
been relied upon by the -- by the plaintiffs, point two.
And we should be able to decide that and we don't want
it decided by a foreign court.
You are talking about a misrepresentation,
if there was one in this case, made in Australia to
Australian purchasers; it ought to be up to us to decide
that issue; and here you are dragging the American
courts into it.
MR. DUBBS: Well, let me deal with the
dragging in part in a minute, because that's
subliminally very important to the case.
But let me address the direct question. He
Australians may believe that, but the question is was
there a misrepresentation both in the United States and
possibly in Australia? If there was in Australia,
that's for the Australians. That's dealing with the
effects of eating the poison candy. But we say a
misrepresentation was made in the United States -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not to these plaintiffs.
MR. DUBBS: Sir -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you have to join the
misrepresentation to the plaintiff.
MR. DUBBS: We have joined -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The only misrepresentation
to these plaintiffs was made in Australia by an
Australian company.
MR. DUBBS: There are two ways to connect
the fraud to the plaintiffs. The one is the "in
connection with" requirement that deals with conduct,
which we meet, and this Court has construed very broadly
in Dabit, in Zandford and any other number of cases.
That's number one.
Number two, assuming that the scope of the
statute is broad enough to cover the conduct in Florida,
we then get to the second question, which is the
reasonableness of the application of the statute, and
without a conflict, we would then look at -- to the
interest of the United States and compare them to the
Australians. And the Australians can say, we can -- you
know, we can go after eating that poison candy. And we
say, fine, if you want to, that's great. But that
doesn't mean we can't go after the act of poisoning the
candy in Florida.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that -- that isn't the
issue. The -- the -- the issue for the Australians is:
We want to determine whether there has been a
misrepresentation or not.
MR. DUBBS: They -
JUSTICE SCALIA: We don't want the
determination of whether there has been a
misrepresentation on the Australian exchange and whether
Australian purchasers relied upon that misrepresentation
to be determined by an American court.
MR. DUBBS: And we say more power to you,
you can decide that question. The question -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not if it's decided here,
unless you want to say, the Australian court to say, the
United States taking this case is so outrageous that we
will not respect its judgment. And that's a factor,
too. It's -- what conflict of laws is all about is you
have two jurisdictions, both with an interest in
applying their own law, but sometimes one defers to the
other.
MR. DUBBS: That's correct, Your Honor. And
the question is should there be deferral in this case.
And we say if you apply the standards of -- of Hartford
Fire or the standards of the Restatement, you don't end
up in deferral. You end up in prosecution of the
Section 10(b) cause of action in Florida. And you do
that for a couple of different reasons.
First, you look at the magnitude of the
conduct in Florida, the size of this. This is a
$1.75 billion writedown in a portfolio. You have a
portfolio of $187 billion worth of mortgages sitting
down in Jacksonville, Florida. Those are all mortgages
on American homes, 2 million American homes. So, this
is not just Australia, Australia, Australia. That's
what's in the portfolio and that's what's being
misrepresented. And when they doctor the numbers and
send them to Australia, it's a misrepresentation of
that.
In addition, you have the overarching
consideration of is it appropriate to sue National
Australia Bank in the United States at -- at a -- at a
more abstract level? And the answer to that, we submit,
is yes. They have invested -- if you care to look, it's
on the SA-11 and SA-41 of the supplemental appendix,
they have invest -- they have $25 billion worth of
assets here. They own a bank in Michigan, they have a
huge trading operation on Park Avenue that trades
billions of dollars in derivatives every day. This is
not the situation -- this is not the stereotype of a
gotcha where you have -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Those derivatives
are not at issue here, right?
MR. DUBBS: Well, they are only -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I presume -- I'm
sorry, go ahead.
MR. DUBBS: They are only at issue in the
following sense, which is that the position on the
mortgage servicing rights was hedged in New York. When
the hedge came undone, there were losses in New York on
the other side of the hedge. That goes to the point of
were there any affects in the United States, because
there seems to be some confusion on that. There were
some effects here from the hedge. There were some
effects on -- in the ADR market, but we are not -- we
are not -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought Morrison -
MR. DUBBS: -- disputing that most of the
effects were over there.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dubbs, Morrison, the
first-named plaintiff, was a derivative holder.
MR. DUBBS: No, Your Honor. He was the
holder of an ADR. The derivatives come in because they
are the activity in New York that is the other side of
the transaction. HomeSide -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But do you have -- you
have two classes of plaintiffs, one the Australians, who
bought their shares in Australia; then you have
Morrison, who has an ADR, and who is dismissed because
he wasn't able to show damages.
MR. DUBBS: That's true. There -- there are
no Americans left. This is strictly Australians.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what U.S. investor was
harmed?
MR. DUBBS: The -- the question is, were
there effects on the U.S. market? There were U.S.
investors who were, in all likelihood, harmed but none
have stepped forward with respect to ADR holders. But
if the question in the abstract is were there economic
effects from this transaction in the United States, the
answer is -- is yes, there were fallout from -- on -- on
the derivative side, which is the other side -- which
was the other side, in effect, the short side of what
the long position was, which was $187 billion worth of
mortgages in Florida that what is -- what the portfolio
consisted of.
JUSTICE BREYER: What do you -- do you want
to finish?
MR. DUBBS: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Then -- I mean, I can see.
I will give you all that. That isn't what is bothering
me. I think you are right so far as what you have
argued. But the part that I think is most difficult is
why I -- I shorthand referred to Professor Sachs'
article.
MR. DUBBS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because what Australia is
actually saying is what we don't like about -- about the
American system, you know, their -- their common
criticisms of class actions. We say, first of all, the
American rule means even if our companies here are
right, that they are going to have to pay their legal
fees. We don't like punitive damages. We don't like
that we have the opt-out. And these are all our
citizens, and we don't want to subject our companies on
our exchange to that stuff.
Now, fine, they have a reason on their side.
Then Professor Sachs says: Read the statute, because
they argue -- it was never intended to cover that kind
of stuff. Now, that's what I would like you to address
specifically.
MR. DUBBS: Well, it was -- there are two
issues. The statute was intended to cover that kind of
stuff if the antecedent of "stuff" is fraud in Florida.
Now, that's a separate question from how we deal with
the private right of action in these circumstances.
Now, let's back up. The general criticism
of these cases is that they are gotcha cases. You put
in a little bit and all of a sudden the private bar
comes and attacks you. I mean, that's the stereotype.
Well, the stereotype is wrong and it's important to
understand why the stereotype is wrong. Because if all
you have is a very modest investment in the ADR market,
1 percent like my friends from NAB, those cases get
bounced at the beginning on personal jurisdiction as
they did in the district of New Jersey in SCORS and the
Novagold case. We are not aware of any case where if
all you've got is that little toehold that you stay in.
You get bounced by -- on personal jurisdiction.
And to pick up on the discussion that I was
having with Justice Ginsburg, we thought that in
addition to that, if the Court wanted to send signals
with respect to these kinds of cases, if you put, as you
can, Sinochem at the beginning of the train, even more
of these cases if they are fallacious are going to be
screened out of the system.
So, the point is that we can all tell our
Australian friends that there are very rigid safeguards
in place so that this horror story in reality doesn't
happen and it has not been proven to happen. It is an
attractive myth, but it hasn't happened. Those cases go
out and they go out early.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure that it
happens in advance of considerable discovery. I -- I --
I would agree that the judge can confine discovery to
forum non conveniens or for personal jurisdiction, but
in -- in these cases one of the things we are really
talking about is the burden of discovery. That's the
cost of litigation. You know that.
MR. DUBBS: I do know that and let me answer
briefly, because I want to reserve my time for rebuttal.
I disagree with your fundamental observation, Justice
Kennedy. These cases are paid attention to by the
district judges and they go out early. They go out
early on personal jurisdiction; there is not a lot of
discovery on that. They go out early -- if Sinochem
gets applied faithfully, it would go out early on that
if there is a close question. And then you go to the
12(b)(6).
And pursuant to the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act, one of the purposes of that is no
discovery, no discovery until after the motion to
dismiss is decided.
So it is not true that there is a lot of
discovery, there is a lot of transaction costs, before
we know the answer to one of the threshold questions,
which is: Should this case be in our system or not?
That can be handled and it is being handled on a daily
basis, notwithstanding, you know, some stereotypes.
Now, my final point with respect to
Professor Sachs' articles and some of the other articles
is they in effect -- if they advocate a rule, which many
of them do, which it should be limited to exchanges,
that goes back to my threshold point of the scope of the
statute. And it takes an eraser to the statute and it
says: It's only exchanges; it's not in connection with
foreign or interstate commerce or through the mails;
it's limited, contrary to the express words of the
statute, in a way that the statutory construction we
don't believe can stand it.
Now, there are other legitimate ways of
cabining the private cause of action. But that -- if
you are faithful to the statute, we submit that is not
one of them.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dubbs.
Mr. Conway.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEORGE T. CONWAY, III,
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. CONWAY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The judgment of the court of appeals should
be affirmed for two reasons.
First, Petitioners have identified nothing
in the text of section 10(b) that overcomes the
presumption against extraterritoriality or the Charming
Betsy Rule. The statutes should thus be construed not
to apply to transactions and shares of foreign issuers
on foreign exchanges.
Second, unlike the rights of action that
this Court has addressed in other extraterritoriality
cases, the section 10(b) right is purely implied.
Congress didn't intend for this right of action to exist
even domestically, let alone extraterritorially.
Given the threat that the section 10(b}
implied right presents to the sovereign authority of
other nations, as reflected in the amicus briefs of
Australia, the United Kingdom, France, and the
diplomatic note from the Swiss government, the Court
should construe the implied right not to extend to
claims of purchasers and sellers of securities of
foreign issuers on foreign markets.
The two clear statement rules are,
obviously, the presumption against extraterritoriality
and the Charming Betsy Rule require that the Congress.
Both require an affirmative intention of the Congress
clearly expressed before the statute can be applied to
apply to foreign transactions or to, you know, matters
that it infringes on the sovereign authority on other
nations.
My friends don't identify anything in the
statute that comets even close to a clear statement.
They principally rely on the definition of "interstate
commerce," but as this court said in Aramco, that kind
of boilerplate simply doesn't suffice to overcome the
presumption against extraterritoriality.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what is your test for
whether -- whether it's being applied internationally or
not?
MR. CONWAY: Well, our test is that, at a
minimum, section 10b should be held not to apply to
transactions involving shares of foreign issues on
foreign exchanges, because that presents the greatest
danger of conflict of foreign law, particularly in the
context of the modern section 10b implied right, which
has the fraud on the market presumption and holds
issuers liable, as here for example, for two and a half
years of trading, all on an Australian exchange. That
is massive transfer of wealth that the Petitioners here
are seeking an American court to effect, and that is -
basically, it's a direct form of market regulation that
Australia has not seen fit to impose upon itself.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you on that
point: Supposing the class of plaintiffs included a
group of Americans who were shareholders of the
Australian bank and who -- but who purchased their stock
over the Australian exchange.
MR. CONWAY: We would -- well, we would
submit that that rule should be the same. That they
should -- they should not also, they should not be
allowed to sue under section 10b. They -- they -- you
know, those people chose to purchase on the Australian
exchange. And in terms of the threat to international
comity, I think it would be probably take -- I don't
think other countries would take nicely to a -- to a
rule of law that would allow Americans, essentially, to
bring their rules, their law, their remedies, fraud, on
the market, what have you to foreign countries -
JUSTICE BREYER: Give me reasons for it.
The strongest one for it, the strongest example against
you it seems to me, is Judge Friendly's example.
Schmidt, a citizen of Germany, flies to New York and
meets Jones in the hotel. And Jones says, I have a
bridge I want to sell you. Look out the window. Say,
Do you own the Brooklyn Bridge? Yes. And that's a lie.
Here's what you do. You invest in buying
shares of my company sold on the German exchange. Okay?
MR. CONWAY: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Conduct took place in the
United States, a terrible fraud. This is contrary to
fraud and, says, I think, Judge Friendly and others, it
should apply at least where Schmidt is an American
citizen and Professor Sachs says no, not even then.
What do you do with that case? The fraud
took place totally here.
MR. CONWAY: Well, I disagree with that,
Your Honor, I think the fraud is carried out when the
transaction occurs in a foreign country. But I do agree
that Professor Sachs is absolutely right -
JUSTICE BREYER: Sign the paper here in New
York.
MR. CONWAY: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Sign the paper, right here,
and give me the money, because I have an urgent
appointment.
MR. CONWAY: Yes, sir.
(Laughter.)
MR. CONWAY: That's a much different case,
obviously, than the fraud in the market case that we
have here. But Your Honor, yes, that is a stronger
circumstance.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but your position and
hers is: That's no more a valid claim than this one or
any other one we dream up. That's why it's a pure
example, and I want to know how you feel about it.
And -
MR. CONWAY: Well, I think that -- I think
the problem is, in order to have that conduct swept
within the statute, you have to ignore the language and
the presumption against extraterritoriality.
If you go to petition appendix 78, that has
its text in section 10b, and section 10b refers to the
use or employment of any manipulative device or
contrivance, and it's in connection with the purchase or
sale of any security registered on a national securities
exchange. And that's -
JUSTICE BREYER: Or any other. Or -- read
the next word.
MR. CONWAY: That's correct. Any security
not so registered. And this Court has held -- it has
held in cases like Aramco, American Banana, Moritson,
that the words "any" and "every," words of universal
scope, do not -- do not mean that these -- that
something referred to is anything, anywhere else in the
world. And for example, the Court is small against the
United States. In the case where the presumption of
extraterritoriality didn't really apply the court held
that in a statute, you normally assume that things being
referred to are thing in the United States. Now -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is the government going to
tell us that its test, which differs from the foreign
exchange test, is based on considerations like those
suggested in Justice Breyer's Brooklyn Bridge
hypothetical?
MR. CONWAY: I think they do. I think they
look to -- I think their view is that the statute is
vague and you have to do essentially what Judge Friendly
did and the Seventh Circuit did for many years, is you
have to make do and decide what the best rule is. And
with respect to the government, that is essentially
doing what this Court has said under the presumption
against extraterritoriality the Court shouldn't do.
That's essentially legislating, trying to figure out
what Congress would have done, had "a particular
problem" -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would the limitations on
discovery give you substantial protection were we to
adopt the government's test or say the foreign exchange
test with the subset exceptions for the -- that takes
account of the government's test?
MR. CONWAY: Your Honor, I think the problem
with the government's test and with the Second Circuit's
test, is that it would still allow the application of
U.S. law in a manner that would infringe the sovereign
authority of other nations.
And I can give an example. There was a case
over the summer that the Petitioners attached to their
first supplemental brief on the petition for certiorari.
And it's a case called PC shifts. And it's an
interesting case because it involved a Canadian company
with headquarters in Britain and most of whose shares
traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
And what happened there was that the
CEO spent time in Florida -- it was a shipping company.
We spent time in, Miami running the show from Miami.
And the court of appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, in a
ruling that it held was consistent with the Second
Circuit decision in this case held that nonetheless, the
application of U.S. law could be applied to transactions
of -- of foreign plaintiffs on the Toronto Stock
Exchange.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it a consideration that
this discovery alone would be an offense to foreign -
MR. CONWAY: Yes, discovery alone. Yes,
Your Honor. Discovery alone. I think the French brief,
for example, points that out. I think a number of the
brief -- there have been blocking statutes that have
been enacted by various countries because of the -- what
they deem to be the offensive scope of discovery. In
France, you are really only allowed to obtain evidence
that is actually admissible in trial.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure how you
interpret the language that you -- that you just read,
when you say to use or employ in connection with the
purchase or sale of any security registered on the
National Security Exchange or any security not so
registered.
Now, is it your point that in order to avoid
an international extension of it, it should apply only
to securities? What?
MR. CONWAY: It should only be applied -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Securities purchased and
sold in the United States? Is that it?
MR. CONWAY: That -- that's correct, Your
Honor. I think that's a fair reading of the statute.
And this Court is required, under both the presumption
against extraterritoriality under its decision and the
Charming Betsy Rule to interpret a statute, take the
permissible construction of the statute that is least
likely to result in an extraterritorial of the law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Purchased -- purchased or
sold?
MR. CONWAY: Purposed or sold, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if it's not -- what if
it -- what if the fraud produces neither a purchase or a
sale but induces somebody to hold on to stock that
otherwise the person would dispose of?
MR. CONWAY: Well, I -- I don't know that
that would state a claim, a private claim under Blue
Chip Stamps. And any -- and if the share or the
securities are held abroad, if it's a foreign security,
and I think the liability in that hypothetical -- I'm
assuming that if it's a foreign security held by a
foreigner -- that really would be something that would
be subject to foreign law, whether or not Australia
wants to represent -- recognize holder claims of the
sort that this Court rejected in Blue Chip Stamps.
That's a question for Australia to decide.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under these same
facts if you had -- altering according to the
hypothetical, you had U.S. plaintiffs who purchased
National Australia Bank ADRs on the New York exchange,
you don't doubt that they can sue, do you?
MR. CONWAY: No, and in fact, we told the
district court, we did not move to defense on
extraterritoriality grounds the claims of Mr. Morrison,
who inexplicably is still here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. CONWAY: We argued that Mr. Morrison's
claims should be defeated on the grounds that he had no
damages, which was an absolutely ironclad calculation
best based on a -- on a provision of the PSLRA, and we
also argued that all of the claims should be dismissed
for failure to plead fraud with the requisite
particularity of the PSLRA.
But we certainly do not dispute that when a
company like ours registers shares on -- registers
shares with the SEC, ADRs with its SEC and lists them on
a New York stock exchange, it's subjecting itself to New
York -- I mean, U.S. law for purposes of those -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And presumably that
would impose the same discovery on the bank as the
Sudanese case.
MR. CONWAY: It could, Your Honor, that's
absolutely true. But on the other hand, I mean, a lot
of the other aspects of -- of this litigation, which
this Court has, you know, noted that is potentially
highly vexatious, I mean, that is only 1.1 percent of
the flow -- of the total equity securities of the -- the
National Australia Bank. So the dangers of -- of a
threat of -- of coerced settlements is much, much less.
It's a much, much easier case to deal with
if -- if -- if you are only dealing with the ADRs. Now
if another company decides to list half its equity on
the New York Stock Exchange, well, it can -- it makes
the determination for itself, how much of this kind of
litigation it wants to subject itself to.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose there were
litigation with substantial allegations of wire fraud
violations as predicate for RICO violations, and the
case begins to proceed, and then there is a second cause
of action under the securities law. Would -- would the
fact that there is going to be discovery and substantial
litigation in the -- in the United States courts be a
factor in retaining the -- the securities violation in
this suit? Or would the test be just the same in your
view?
MR. CONWAY: I think the -- I think you have
to take each statute separately. You have to look at
what the language of the statute says, whether it -- it
admits fault in an extraterritorial reading, and whether
that -- frankly whether that extraterritorial reading is
required or compelled. If there is any other possible
construction, as the Court said in -- in Charming Betsy,
the court is required to accept that construction,
accept the construction that doesn't result in
extraterritorial application or doesn't result in -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: On the -- on the
extraterritorial presumption against it, your colleague
on the other side tells us that in all the cases where
the presumption applied, all of the conduct was
someplace else, and they give the Aramco case and say
that was an employee hired in -- was it Saudi Arabia -
MR. CONWAY: That -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- and everything
happened outside the country.
MR. CONWAY: Well, my -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Here, I mean, you have to
concede that a component of the alleged fraud occurred
in Florida.
MR. CONWAY: We do concede that some of the
conduct that ultimately, you know, led -- in a but-for
causal relationship to what happened in the Australia
occurred in the United States, but that's true in a lot
of other cases. For example, Aramco, Mr. Boureslan was
hired in Houston. So was the cook in Foley Brothers v.
Filardo. And in Microsoft v. AT&T, basically all of the
conduct, the relevant conduct was in the United States,
because what the -- what section 271(f) proscribed in
Microsoft was the shipment -- the supply in or from the
United States of a component of a patented invention.
And what this Court held in Microsoft was
that notwithstanding AT&T's argument that, "Hey, the
presumption against extraterritoriality doesn't really
apply because this is just regulating the supply in and
from the United States," this Court held that the
presumption against extraterritoriality applied because
what would happen is, a single act of supply would
result in a springboard for liability each time a -- a
disk was put into a computer abroad.
And that is exactly analogous to the
circumstances in this case, where what we -- what
happened was some -- some allegedly false information
was transmitted to Australia; it was then republished in
annual reports, print, print, print; sent out to the -
sent out to the Australian market, and resulted in -
allegedly, as they would have it -- resulted in
liability every single time somebody purchased -
purchased a share of stock of the National Australia
Bank on the Australian securities exchange. And so that
is exactly analogous to -- to Microsoft v. AT&T.
Again, another point I think that's relevant
is the, section 30 of the Exchange Act. Congress did
not make a clear statement in section 10. It did make
clear statements in section 30. Section 30(a) addresses
transactions on foreign exchanges. Section 30 as a
whole is entitled Foreign Exchanges, and section 30(a)
makes it -- makes -- gives the SEC power to promulgate
regulations that -- that apply to brokers and dealers
who effect transactions of securities on foreign
exchanges, if those transactions are transactions of
shares of shares of U.S. issuers.
And that's at -- for reference, the text of
section 30 is at page 19 of the law professors' brief.
And section 30(b) also, it says that the SEC can
regulate the -- regulate businesses in securities of -
of businesses -- securities that are abroad, but only to
the extent the SEC finds it necessary to prevent evasion
of the Act domestically.
And so Congress made two clear statements in
section 30. It did not make any clear statement in
section 10.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, is that your only
point? Or is your point also that you wouldn't need
section 30 if -- if 10(b) were -
MR. CONWAY: That's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- were read as broadly.
MR. CONWAY: That's absolutely right. The
reading -- my friend's reading of section 30 would
render section 10(b) -- I mean the reading of section
10(b) would render section 30 superfluous. And there
are other provisions of -- that are in the Exchange Act
where Congress has made clear statements to show that it
can make clear statements. Section 30A which
immediately follows section 30, is the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act.
So Congress -- if Congress -- if there is a
loophole, and that's what this Court said in Microsoft
v. AT&T; if there is some kind of loophole that presents
some kind of a problem, that Congress needs to fix,
Congress can do it. Congress can do it with a clear
statement.
In sum, Your Honors, countries -- nations of
the world do things differently. They -- they -- they
have different rules of liability. We see in the amicus
briefs different rules of materiality, different rules
of disclosure. And some rely on -- on public
enforcement more than others.
The French rely on l'action publique, as
they say; and some nations approach ours in their
generosity to plaintiffs. Australia allows opt-out
class actions; so does Canada. Canada allows opt-out
class actions; it dispenses with, for example, the proof
of reliance, it dispenses with scienter in some cases.
Yet it -- it does all that, but it restricts liability
to $1 million or 5 percent of a -- of a company's -
JUSTICE BREYER: How does it hurt the other
countries if what we would say on their reading of this
is, Congress has said, "Look, if some terribly bad
conduct happens in the United States; they lie through
their teeth; and you, whoever you are in the world, who
buys some shares and as a result you are hurt, we will
give you a remedy. Come to us" -- now, how does that
hurt Australia?
MR. CONWAY: Well, it hurts Australia -
JUSTICE BREYER: Or France or England or any
of these others?
MR. CONWAY: Exactly the same way this Court
said it hurts in Empagran. In Empagran this Court noted
that -- that a reading of the rule that would allow -- a
reading of the FTAIA that would have allowed foreign
plaintiffs to come and sue for -- for foreign vitamins
transaction in a foreign country would essentially allow
plaintiffs to avoid the -- the narrower rules of the
liability and the narrower remedies that other nations
provide. And that is exactly true here, where, you
know, for example, Australia does not permit
fraud-on-the-market class actions. It doesn't allow -
it doesn't recognize the fraud-on-the-market
presumption.
And as I said, for example, Canada restricts
these actions, it has generous liability rules and
allows opt-out class actions, but it says -- it caps
damages at 5 percent of an issuer's market
capitalization or $1 million, whichever is greater.
And so that's the -- that is the problem.
It's not just substance but it's remedy. Other nations
want to do things in different ways; they should be
allowed to. What is going on here is essentially a --
Brandeising -- experiment a global scale. And that's a
good thing.
It's a good thing because it enables
countries to judge for themselves what kind of rules
they want to have for people who buy shares on their own
exchanges. And to apply section 10(b) it cases like
this would cut that experiment short. It would amount
to exactly the soft of legal imperialism that this Court
rejected, rightly, in Empagran. The Court should reject
it here as well and it should affirm the judgment of the
court of appeals.
I thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Conway.
Mr. Roberts.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
MR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case presents two distinct questions:
First whether the fraud alleged by Petitioners violated
Section 10b; and second, whether Petitioners may bring a
private action.
In our view, the alleged fraud violated
Section 10b, because significant conduct material to the
fraud's success occurred in the United States.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There are -- there
are a lot of moving parts in that test. You know,
significant conduct, material, you require it to have a
direct causal relationship. Doesn't the complication of
that kind of defeat the whole purpose?
MR. ROBERTS: No, Your Honor, we don't think
so. In terms of the -- of the direct cause part, which
it will be -- the significant limit on private actions,
as this case illustrates, the district courts even
accepting the allegations in the plaintiff's complaint
will often be able to dismiss the suit on the pleading
for its failure to satisfy that test. It's not a
difficult test -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's only for the
private companies?
MR. ROBERTS: That's right. And in terms of
the other test, again, I don't think it's that
complicated. The -- the significance part of it is
essentially trying to assess the amount of the conduct
of -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what if -
what if significant elements of the fraud occur in four
different countries?
MR. ROBERTS: If -- if -- the critical
question is whether there's significant conduct here
that's material to the broad success. And the reason
for that is if Section 10b didn't cover that kind of
conduct, then that would risk allowing the United States
to become a base for orchestrating securities frauds for
export. It would allow thing like masterminds in the
United States engineering international boiler room
schemes in which they direct agents in foreign countries
to make fraudulent representations that victimize
investors.
JUSTICE BREYER: So it's not as easy to
apply this, you think? Now, on your theory, I guess
Schmidt is in Germany and we have our Brooklyn Bridge.
Okay, now wait. What happens is he calls Schmidt on the
telephone, Jones, and he says I own the Brooklyn Bridge.
Actual, right, direct? Under your test, correct?
MR. ROBERTS: Schmidt is in Germany?
JUSTICE BREYER: Schmidt is in Germany. He
calls him up.
MR. ROBERTS: The defrauder is in Germany?
JUSTICE BREYER: All -- everything -- you
have to assume he's going to buy the thing on the
exchange in Germany but the fraud is in Brooklyn. He is
lying about -- he doesn't really own the Brooklyn
Bridge. So he calls Schmidt. I am interested in -- he
calls Schmidt. Causation, that's what your last pages
of your brief, focus on that. He calls him and he lies
to him. Actual. In your theory -
MR. ROBERTS: I'm sorry, Your Honor, can I
ask you if everybody is in Germany?
JUSTICE BREYER: No.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Go back to my Brooklyn
Bridge example. Everything is hatched in your boiler
room.
MR. ROBERTS: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: And they communicate the
lie by calling Schmidt in Berlin on the telephone,
directly.
MR. ROBERTS: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Schmidt is the German.
He's in Germany.
(Laughter.)
MR. ROBERTS: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm looking -
MR. ROBERTS: The question is, is there
significant conduct in the United States -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm focusing on the
last pages of your brief. Where you turn this whole
thing on the directness of the causation.
MR. ROBERTS: That's right. And the SEC
would be able to take action if there is significant
conduct in the United States -
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm accepting that for the
moment. What's bothering me, taking off from what the
Chief Justice said, is the feasibility of your test.
Your test, it seems to me on causation, would say that
when you phone Schmidt and lie to him, he can sue. But
when you phone your parent company, knowing that they
will put it in the prospectus and Schmidt will read it,
you can't sue.
And then what occurs to me is suppose you
phoned a reporter, or suppose you phoned your parent
company and you knew they would tell a reporter. I'm
focusing on the practicality of your causation test.
MR. ROBERTS: If the conduct is directed or
controlled from the United States -
JUSTICE BREYER: Correct.
MR. ROBERTS: -- then it would -- then the
direct causation test would be -- would be met. The
critical question is, is the conduct in the United
States have a close enough -
JUSTICE BREYER: You think that's the
question here? You think the question is whether this
really took place in Florida? I didn't think that was
the question.
MR. ROBERTS: In terms of a private
plaintiff suing, in our view, the question is whether
the United States' conduct has a close enough connection
to their -- to -- to their injury -
JUSTICE BREYER: Let's skip -- skip my
question because other people may ask.
JUSTICE ALITO: If the plaintiffs in this
case had clearly alleged in their complaint that nobody
in Australia reviewed the numbers that were sent from
Florida to any degree, they just directly copied them,
some low-level clerk directly copied them, would the
direct cause test be met?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, if the action was just
ministerial over overseas, it would -- it would be met.
Again, the critical question, in our view, under the
direct cause test is, was there culpable conduct in the
United States that is directly responsible for the
plaintiff's injury?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Roberts -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then you give no
weight to the fact that it was on the Australian
exchange?
MR. ROBERTS: The -- the fact that the
transaction happens on the Australian exchange is not
dispositive, because if -- if somebody in the United
States is directly -- is -- is executing the fraud -- if
it turned on just a transaction on the Australian
exchange, then a domestic investor could be injured by a
fraud that is hatched entirely here that is executed
entirely here, and he is tricked into executing a
transaction on an overseas exchange.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Roberts, because your
time is running out, there is a basic question here.
You are asking us to make a distinction between what the
SEC can sue for and what a private party can sue for.
Congress did that with respect to aiders and abettors.
Is there any other instance in which we have
made a distinction, yes, the SEC has a claim but the
private litigant doesn't?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, the -- the -- the private
litigants are -- have numerous elements that they have
to show that the SEC doesn't have to show: Reliance,
loss, loss causation. All of those go to the causal
link between the injury and -- and the fraud. And we
think that the direct injury requirement is an
appropriate application of those more general causation
requirements in the context of transnational fraud.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I am frankly less concerned
with your -- your test for the private cause of action,
the direct cause test -- I -- I guess I could work with
that -- than I am with your test for -- for the
jurisdiction of the -- of the SEC, which is sort of a
totality of the circumstances test. It doesn't seem to
me that's an appropriate test for a jurisdictional
question. You don't want to spend time litigating the
totality of the circumstances.
MR. ROBERTS: We don't think it's a -- a
jurisdictional question in the sense of the subject
matter jurisdiction, Your Honor. It's a -- a test about
the scope of the statutory coverage.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, okay.
MR. ROBERTS: And it's true that bright line
rules -- it's true that bright line rules are easier to
administer, but the -- there is a danger in bright line
rules for fraud prohibitions because they can provide a
road map for evasion of the statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you have any
indication that our friends around the world are
comfortable with your test?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, the briefs that have
been filed by Australia and United Kingdom and France
are limited to the private right of action. They base
their -- what they want to do is to limit the private
rights. And I think the United Kingdom brief
specifically says that -- it thinks that SEC action
could be appropriate here, and that's a reason why, if
the Court adopts the -- a limit on the private actions,
that it need not -- it need not be concerned about the
possibility that -- that fraud would be launched in the
United States or directed in the United States and it
couldn't be addressed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess we don't have to
say anything about -- about what the government can do,
do we?
MR. ROBERTS: No, Your Honor. And we would
certainly prefer that you decided the case solely on the
private right of action if the alternative for a holding
substantive prohibitions didn't apply here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Roberts, you
urge deference to the SEC's interpretation in
administrative adjudications?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you have anything
other than those two proceedings over the last 35 years?
MR. ROBERTS: Those are the two
administrative adjudications. The SEC's administrative
adjudicatory authority is limited to people involved in
the securities industry, and a lot of these frauds that
happen are -- don't involve people that are registered
broker/dealers and the like. There are numerous Civil
Actions that the SEC has brought where it has taken the
same approach. The SEC v. Berger case that we cite in
our brief is one of them.
I can name some others. There is
SEC v. Wolfson, which is a case that's in the district
court in Utah, and SEC v. Shay in -- in the southern
district of New York. SEC v. Banger in the northern
district of Illinois. Those involve international
boiler-room schemes of the kind I was alluding to
before, where masterminds in the United States basically
direct agents that they have got in countries like
Thailand or Spain to -- to make false statements and
engage in high-pressure selling to target investors in
other countries. Sometimes they induce them to engage
in transactions in still other countries. So -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Roberts.
Mr. Dubbs, you have three minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS A. DUBBS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. DUBBS: Thank you, Your Honor. Let me
begin with Justice Alito's question, and I promise to
get back to Judge Friendly and the Brooklyn Bridge.
As to -- we have alleged that in -- that
effectively, ministerial activities did occur here. The
Second Circuit held, interpreting our complaint, that
the numbers were mechanically incorporated. That's as
close to ministerial as you get.
We used, in the complaint, the were
"adopted." We said that they were asleep at the wheel.
The meaning is the same, but the -- there were no
checkpoints. The checkpoints are illusory. If there
was a checkpoint, the guard was asleep at the
checkpoint, and the MSR number went right through the
checkpoint. Those are the allegations, and we should be
able to stick with the allegations.
Now, turning to the statute, my colleague
indicated that the language with respect to foreign and
interstate commerce and so on, based on the Aramco
decision, was boilerplate. That's wrong. In this
statute, those specific statutory approaches towards
stopping fraud are in the substance of the statute.
They are not in the jurisdictional statute. That's
important. That's why that's different.
As to the Leasco example and Bersch example,
what Leasco shows is a long chain of causation, because
Leasco involved an American, not a foreigner, which was
very important under Judge Friendly's typology. And in
Leasco, you have this extended line of causation
beginning with representations in the United States
about a friendly, tender offer. Then there was a phone
call, maybe in London, maybe in the United States, and
then there was a command by Saul Steinberg to his
investment bankers: Go into the London Stock Exchange
and start to buy.
That extended line of causation would not
pass muster under the direct cause test. The direct
cause test as this Court is using it in the RICO area
under cases like Hemi, that would not pass muster. What
that shows, and Judge Friendly said that if you have a
foreign Plaintiff, the direct cause is appropriate, that
shows that the direct cause test is narrower, it's a
screening device, and it limits the possibilities when
you have a foreign Plaintiff.
Now, that is a proper way to cabin the
private cause of action. Taking an eraser to the
statute and saying: The only words that count are on an
exchange, doesn't do it if you are going to keep a
linkage between the private cause of action and the
expressed words of the statute. If that can't do it,
what are the other tools? And the other tools are the
direct cause test, and this Court has been very ably
working through some of these difficult fact patterns in
the RICO area.
Now, in this case, there is not the problem
that there is in Hemi; there is not the intervening
cause. You have a related party, NAB, that may or may
not be involved that allegedly is broken -- breaking the
chain of causation. It is -- has to be, under that
doctrine, a totally third party, as it was in Hemi,
where you have the State of New York, the City of New
York and had all these bouncing balls going back and
forth. This is a straight shot between that MSR being
fabricated in Florida and going on to the financial
statements. There is no intervening cause.
And even if we assume that in some senses,
it was normal to look at those financial statements,
that in and of -- of itself has failed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
44:3 51:8,13 33:11 41:22 applied 3:15 assume 11:7,8
53:3 adjudicatory 42:15 8:12 24:22 15:11 31:8
55:9 administrative 42:9 38:13 34:19
39:18 admissible altering 35:1 apply 19:4 26:13 8:17 9:10
36:1 admits 37:2 American 8:11 31:7 33:20 attacks 23:10
adopt 32:4 16:20 18:16 38:11 39:10 attention 7:17
adopts 50:19 22:16 28:5 51:5 attractive 24:6
ADRs 35:3,19 Americans 14:7 appointment AT&T's 38:9
18:5 25:1 advocate 25:12 2:10 5:10 51:19 7:23 8:6,13,25
39:4,20 affirm 42:25 26:22 40:21 approaches 53:8 9:2,24 10:22
affirmative 27:6 43:7 appropriate 8:5 11:1,4 12:16
8:2 agency 5:12 44:11 19:21 49:13,21 16:11,18 17:3
15:10 agents 44:24 analogous 38:17 50:18 54:3 17:3,13 19:15
23:6 52:3 39:2 Arabia 37:14 19:15,15,18,22
26:15,18 agree 11:24 annual 38:21 Aramco 27:14 21:8 22:12
43:14 24:10 29:18 answer 13:20 31:1 37:13 26:23 28:7
48:5 agreed 3:25 14:17 19:23 38:1 53:6 34:21,24 35:3
50:14,17 ahead 20:11 21:21 24:15 area 53:25 54:16 36:6 37:24
54:8,11 aiders 49:3 25:6 argue 22:24 38:20,25 41:2
42:4,8,9 ALITO 11:2,7 antitrust 14:24 35:10,14 48:1 50:13
50:19 11:13 13:12 anyway 6:9 argument 1:13 Australian 7:21
47:24 appeals 26:7 2:2,5,8,12 3:4 7:22 8:25 9:22
13:4 alleged 3:15 8:4 appears 3:12 article 22:10 24:3 28:3,11
23:22 37:20 43:12,15 9:14 articles 25:11,11 28:12,17 38:22
allegedly 38:19 30:16 asking 49:1 48:19
18:2,2,8 26:4 43:7 Breyer's 31:13 calculation 43:21 49:10
52:12 bridge 29:4,5 35:12 causation 45:17
10:7 11:25 45:16,25 52:15 called 32:15 47:11 49:10,13
32:11 25:20 15:8,13 32:14 calls 45:5,10,16 54:21
Berger 51:19 33:6,8 39:15 45:17,18 cause 3:22 12:8
14:16 53:12 briefly 24:16 Canadian 32:16 36:17 43:24
23:7 billion 19:11,12 43:13 capitalization CEO 32:20
45:24 20:1 21:24 bringing 13:3 42:11 certainly 35:17
54:24 billions 20:4 Britain 14:8 caps 42:9 51:3
blocking 33:8 broad 17:22 carried 29:17 cetera 9:22
9:24 52:1 51:17 16:18,24 18:21 checkpoint
12:5 books 9:10 Brooklyn 29:5 19:3 23:17,17 52:25 53:1,2
20:2 bothering 22:6 31:13 45:4,6 25:7 29:14 checkpoints
35:3,23 46:21 45:14,15,24 30:3,4 31:6 52:24,24
39:1 bought 21:8 52:15 32:12,15,16,24 Chevron 5:25
35:13 Brandeising businesses 39:17 51:22 54:17 43:18 44:6,13
42:16 39:18 55:7,8 46:22 50:9
38:3 52:2 22:2,5,12 53:22 23:25 24:6,12 Chip 34:16,23
53:17 45:12,22,24 C 42:21 54:1 5:4 7:17 31:18
3:8 cabining 25:22
25:17 27:14 43:16,20 44:11 contrivance 28:5 30:25
Commission 4:9 46:19 47:7,12 controlled 47:8 32:22 34:2,23
23:6 commit 16:1 conducted 5:20 10:1,8 24:11 37:6 38:8,12
49:20,23 committed 5:21,24 Conway 1:18 40:14 41:19,20
49:5 communication Congress 26:18 34:9,14 35:5 44:1
35:7,11 companies 39:4,21 40:9 37:15,18,22 cover 14:2 17:22
22:16,20 44:7 40:13,13,16,17 40:2,4 41:16 22:24 23:3
42:4,9 29:7 32:16,20 49:3 cook 38:2 coverage 50:2
27:3,12 compare 18:1 30:19 33:15 33:25 45:7 critical 44:16
compared 15:5 47:20 47:9 47:12 48:7
compelled 37:4 consider 14:9 Corrupt 40:11 criticism 23:7
47:25 52:18,21 24:9 costs 25:5 culpable 48:8
47:13,20 43:21 31:12 countries 28:20
component considered 28:23 33:9 D
computer 9:11 consistent 32:23 52:3,6,7 Dabit 17:19
7:3 21:3 concede 12:11 25:19 34:5 29:18 37:17 damages 21:10
37:20,22 37:5,6,7 41:24 22:18 35:12
50:20 construed 17:18 course 4:5 danger 27:24
11:17,18,22 49:14 5:23 7:15 11:4 day 20:4
16:3 38:4,4 41:11 29:10 26:16,24 27:14 dealing 17:4
7:9 12:8 13:7 dispute 3:12 24:21,22 error 6:21,21
18:18 42:14 44:15 distinct 43:11 eating 17:5 18:3 essentially 15:8
34:24 53:11 distinction 49:1 economic 21:19 28:21 31:17,20
18:19 40:20 district 10:9,21 educating 7:16 42:15 44:11
51:3 differs 31:11 23:16 24:19 effect 21:23 et 1:3,7 9:22
32:24 34:3 54:15 doctor 19:17 effectively 52:17 everybody 3:25
diplomatic doctored 8:16 effects 12:18 45:21
47:11 48:4,8 dollars 20:4 either 16:1,2 example 12:19
12:15 53:24,24 54:3 domestically elements 44:14 30:10 31:5
51:7 directly 46:5 16:23 41:20,20 42:24 53:12,12
discovery 24:9 7:19 8:7,10,23 enforced 12:10 29:7 30:21
25:2,2,5 32:3 11:12,15,24 3:22 14:24 33:2,17 35:3
21:3 35:23 36:19 16:22 17:8,11 engage 52:5,6 39:1,4 40:8
36:12 discussion 23:20 19:2 20:9,12 engineering 48:20,23 53:21
dismiss 25:3 21:11,15 22:4 England 41:17 exchanges 25:13
dismissed 21:9 52:10,11,13 entitled 5:25 6:4 39:12 42:21
54:5 dispenses 41:4,5 D.C 1:9,21 equation 16:4 executing 48:18
feel 30:10 9:19 10:13,16 fraud's 43:17 32:3,12 37:13
final 25:10 27:24 28:23 friendly 14:2,10 giving 14:9
55:1,4 34:17,19,21 53:18 54:2 9:16 12:9 18:3
finish 22:3 41:24 44:24 friends 23:14 24:21,22,23
37:2,3,8 19:5 foreigner 34:20 50:10 49:10 53:21
first 3:14 5:6,12 53:14 friend's 40:5 goes 12:7,9
27:4 12:22,24 13:22 forth 54:25 full 5:25 going 4:17 7:7
30:15 16:9 19:9 forum 8:1,9 9:18 fundamental 22:17 23:25
34:3 22:15 26:9 9:20 10:1,8,21 15:13 24:17 31:10 36:19
38:10,13 32:14 43:12 13:7,8,9 24:11 42:15 45:13
21:1 21:18 G 3:1 good 42:17,18
36:19 8:16 9:2,3,6 41:17 50:13 General's 14:21 government's
54:15 10:15,19,20 frankly 37:3 generosity 41:2 32:4,6,8
12:15,19 16:1 fraud 8:5 9:6 GEORGE 1:18 greater 42:11
37:21 47:16 29:10,11,14,17 45:4,8,9,11,14 guard 52:25
following 20:13 frauds 44:21 32:1 34:7 37:9 handle 4:14 5:14
51:16 HomeSide's 52:19 10:16 15:1 53:15 54:2
15:5 24:6 Honor 4:4,21,25 3:17 27:13 53:6 judgment 18:22
37:17,24 6:10 7:11,14 indicated 53:5 intervening 6:12 26:7 42:25
8:10,23 10:2 indication 50:10 6:20,22 54:18 jurisdiction 3:12
45:5 15:4 19:2 21:2 induces 34:12 invention 38:7 12:22,24,25
22:4 29:17 industry 51:15 invest 20:1 29:6 13:3 23:15,19
50:1 51:2 3:16 38:19 investor 21:13 4:1 13:16
19:4 Honors 5:15 infringes 27:9 investors 21:17 jurisdictions
horror 24:4 initial 7:8 involve 51:16,25 Justice 1:21 3:3
Houston 38:2 injury 47:21 51:14 53:14 5:18,22 6:2,8
hurt 41:8,13,15 instance 49:4 involving 27:22 7:12,19 8:8,20
hypothetical intend 26:18 issue 3:11,25 11:7,13,21
32:23 intention 27:6 16:20 18:8,8 16:11 17:7,9
34:17,19 I interest 11:11 20:8,12 17:12 18:7,12
52:18 identified 26:9 11:16,17 13:1 issued 13:25 18:19 20:7,10
illusory 52:24 interests 10:22 issues 3:12 4:25 26:5 27:17
40:11 13:16 28:18 J 30:22 31:10,13
implied 26:17 internationally Jersey 23:16 34:25 35:9,22
11:19 included 28:9 52:18 14:10 24:10 46:3,7,11,14
47:9 13:17 18:25 linkage 54:11 March 1:10 14:19
27:24 28:21,22 list 36:10 market 20:20 minimum 27:21
32:10,25 34:6 lists 35:19 21:16 23:13 ministerial 48:6
50:3,9 34:21 35:21 litigant 49:6 28:1,6,23 30:4 52:17,20
51:6,10 36:18 39:15 litigants 49:8 38:22 42:10 minute 16:23
55:6 laws 8:4 14:24 litigate 15:10 markets 14:14 minutes 52:10
18:23 litigating 49:22 27:2 misrepresenta...
Leasco 14:5,16 36:2,13,15,20 44:22 52:2 18:10,14,15
31:10 leave 4:6,6,14 London 53:19 43:20 44:18 misrepresented
33:3 6:6 53:21 materiality 19:17
48:12 led 37:23 long 21:24 53:13 40:22 model 9:11
23:3 legal 13:10 15:4 16:12 4:24 5:7 13:6 modest 23:13
36:12 22:17 42:23 17:25 19:9,24 14:22,23 50:1 moment 15:7
42:19 legislating 31:23 29:4 31:16 55:9 46:21
44:19 legislative 12:24 36:25 41:10 matters 27:8 Monday 1:10
legitimate 25:21 55:4 MATTHEW money 29:24
let's 9:16,16 13:9 46:11 6:24 7:15,21 Morrison 1:3
18:3 level 10:18 loss 49:10,10 23:10 31:3 Morrison's
24:14,15 19:23 losses 20:15 35:21 36:1,4 35:10
27:8 levels 11:16 lot 24:20 25:4,5 37:19 40:6 mortgage 9:13
30:10 liability 34:18 36:1 37:25 meaning 52:23 11:19 20:14
36:3 38:15,24 40:21 43:19 51:15 means 9:5,8 mortgages 19:12
42:3 41:6 42:1,8 lots 5:11 22:16 19:13 21:25
liable 28:2 low-level 48:3 meant 10:2,3 motion 10:21
37:1 limitations 32:2 making 7:16 Michigan 20:2 myth 24:6
limited 25:13,18 13:10 Microsoft 38:3,6
46:9 line 5:16 50:4,5 manipulative million 19:14 NAB 23:14
12:22 map 50:8 narrower 41:25
54:4 48:1 52:19 overarching petition 30:16 portfolio 8:18
10:22 51:17 overcome 27:15 Petitioners 1:4 21:25
30:20 nuts-and-bolts overcomes 1:17 2:4,14 3:8 position 4:9 14:6
35:3 10:18 26:10 26:9 28:4 20:13 21:24
38:25 override 11:13 32:13 43:12,13 30:7
32:11 O 2:1 3:1 phone 46:24,25 54:5
41:1 observation P 53:18 possibility 50:21
8:13 24:17 P 3:1 phoned 47:4,4 possible 4:5 37:4
30:4 pages 45:17 pick 23:20 power 16:7
occurred 37:20 paper 29:20,23 plaintiff 7:21,24 Practices 40:12
22:24 offensive 33:10 43:24 44:10 14:6 16:14 13:10
5:5,5,14 okay 14:7 29:7 31:24 21:7 28:9 33:1 27:23 40:15
21:4 45:5 46:2,6 particularity 35:2 41:2,23 43:11
29:2,20 50:3 35:16 41:25 47:24 pressing 4:12
one-issue 9:12 particularly 5:2 plaintiff's 9:20 presumably
51:24 one-number 27:24 9:21 44:2 35:22
9:13 parts 14:20 48:10 presume 20:10
24:11 opinion 7:8 54:22 please 3:10 26:6 27:4,16 28:1
38:9 44:21 47:23 51:14,16 28:9 33:19 principles 13:16
14:12 ought 16:19 42:10 poison 12:20,21 private 3:22
outcome 4:5 permissible 34:5 12:23 13:2,3,5 6:15,18,19
53:1 outrageous permit 42:3 13:10,11 16:9 12:10 23:6,9
12:1 19:17 outside 37:17 personal 23:15 poisoning 18:5 34:15 43:14,25
47:18 punitive 22:18 raises 15:1 38:11 reserve 24:16
purchase 28:17 read 22:23 regulation 28:6 respect 3:16
30:19 33:16 30:22 33:14 regulations 4:10 18:22
54:8,11 34:11 40:3 47:1 39:10 21:18 23:23
32:7 33:23 34:7,7 41:9,21,22 reject 42:24 respectfully
42:12 35:2 38:24,25 reality 24:4 rejected 34:23 8:12
purchaser 7:25 really 10:25 42:24 Respondent
36:17 purchasers 33:11 34:20 relationship Respondents
27:1 47:16 relevant 38:4 26:4 43:8
14:15 purpose 43:22 44:18 50:18 49:9 Restatement
25:11 Purposed 34:9 reasonableness relied 16:14 15:16 19:5
purposes 25:1 3:20 17:24 18:15 restricts 41:6
51:5 9:7,8 24:25 reasons 14:10 remaining 52:10 37:8 38:15
9:10 10:4 recall 4:2 41:14 42:13 revealing 7:20
question 4:1,21 record 14:21 reports 38:21 right 4:25 5:19
24:23 34:24 refers 30:17 republished 27:25 29:19,23
25:6 43:11 35:18 17:17 49:12 20:14 26:15
39:17,17 49:14 rigid 24:3
20:7,10 54:9 17:23 26:15 20:14 24:21
34:25 says 4:2 12:22 32:8,23 36:17 settlements 36:7 sir 17:8 30:1
43:3,5 13:4,23 14:4,5 43:13 52:18 Seventh 31:18 sits 5:4
15:8,25 16:12 section 3:14 shalt 12:22 16:1 sitting 19:12
22:23 25:16 8:11 10:11 share 34:16 situation 20:5
29:3,11,13 13:11 19:7 38:25 sixth 11:19
37:1 39:16 26:10,17,20 shareholders size 19:10
47:7,10 42:9 45:6 27:21,25 28:16 28:10 Skidmore 6:5
48:5,11 50:17 30:17,17 38:5 shares 7:22 9:23 skip 47:22,22
49:7 SA-11 19:25 39:4,5,6,6,7,8 21:8 26:13 small 31:5
50:4,9 SA-41 19:25 39:15,16,22,23 27:22 29:7 soft 42:23
51:2,6,6 scale 42:16 40:1,5,6,6,7,10 32:17 35:18,19 sold 29:7 33:24
Scalia 3:24 4:11 40:11 42:21 39:13,13 41:13 34:8,9
55:6 5:18,22 6:2,8 43:13,16 44:19 42:20 solely 51:3
22:16 18:12 27:17 27:1 30:20 shipment 38:6 38:24 48:17
26:12 33:13,23 34:10 33:21,23 34:17 shipping 32:20 someplace 37:13
28:14,21 39:24 40:3 36:5,18,21 short 21:23 somewhat 4:22
34:4 46:7 49:15 39:1,11,17,18 42:22 sorry 6:25 20:11
50:3,24 44:21 51:15 shorthand 22:9 45:20 46:10
52:1 30:20,24 33:16 show 13:5,6 49:19
45:4,5,8,9,16 34:19 40:9 49:9,9 southern 51:23
42:8,19 45:17 46:4,7 SEC's 51:7,13 shows 53:13 sovereign 26:21
46:24 47:1 see 14:5 22:5 54:2,4 27:9 32:10
12:2,9 13:17 seen 28:7 20:16 21:4,22 53:8
33:10 sellers 27:1 22:22 37:11 10:11 13:14
25:11 screening 54:5 senior 9:2 10:18 44:10 spend 49:22
SEC 7:17 35:19 sense 9:12 20:13 significant spent 32:20,21
50:17 51:18,19 38:21,22 48:1 simply 4:16 13:9 stand 25:20
statutory 25:19 success 43:17 talking 6:23 7:1 28:20 29:11,17
stays 5:2 sudden 23:9 target 52:5 33:6,7 34:1,18
stereotype 20:5 35:4 41:23 46:4 45:3 47:14,15
39:5 stereotypes 25:9 49:2,2 47:5 50:16
40:18 STEVENS 28:8 suffice 27:15 tells 37:11 thinks 50:17
40:9 stock 28:11 suing 9:23 47:19 terms 9:6 28:18 THOMAS 1:16
52:4 32:18 33:1 suit 10:24 16:5 43:24 44:8 2:3,13 3:7
34:12 35:20 36:22 44:3 47:18 52:11
8:6 9:23 53:21 summer 32:13 terribly 41:10 thought 5:3,5
11:10,15 stopping 53:9 superfluous test 5:9 6:20 7:20 20:22
story 24:4 40:7 27:17,20 31:11 23:21
15:23,25 straight 54:25 supplemental 31:12 32:4,5,6 threat 26:20
18:1,21 strictly 21:12 4:7 19:25 32:8,9 36:22 28:18 36:7
20:17 strong 11:15,16 32:14 43:19 44:4,5,9 three 10:12
29:10 stronger 30:5 supply 38:6,11 45:7 46:22,23 13:18 14:11
33:24 strongest 28:25 38:14 47:6,11 48:4,8 52:10
37:25 28:25 supporting 1:22 49:16,17,18,20 threshold 25:6
stuff 22:21,25 2:11 43:8 49:21 50:1,11 25:14
43:7,17 23:4,4 suppose 12:5 53:24,25 54:4 time 5:6,12
46:13 subject 3:11 36:14 47:3,4 54:14 24:16 32:20,21
47:8,13 4:24 22:20 Supposing 28:9 tests 4:10 10:4 38:15,24 48:25
48:9,18 34:21 36:13 Supreme 1:1,13 text 26:10 30:17 49:22
52:2 49:25 sure 5:10 24:8 39:14 today 3:13 5:17
subjecting 35:20 33:13 Thailand 52:4 14:25
12:2,9 16:24 Swiss 26:24 26:5 43:2,3 told 35:5
13:4,9 submit 6:21 system 11:4,10 52:8,13 55:6 tools 54:13,13
14:2 19:23 25:23 15:9 16:6,6 theory 45:3,19 Toronto 32:18
17:22,24 28:14 22:14 24:1 they'd 7:3 33:1
23:3 submitted 5:10 25:7 thing 10:3 14:4 total 36:5
55:7,9 31:9 42:17,18 totality 49:20,23
30:14 subparts 14:18 T 44:22 45:13 totally 14:1
34:1,4 subset 32:5 T 1:18 2:1,1,6 46:16 29:15 54:22
36:25 substance 42:13 26:3 things 5:11 7:7 traded 32:18
50:8 53:4 53:9 take 28:19,20 10:2 13:18 trades 20:3
54:9 substantial 9:6 34:4 36:25 24:12 31:8 trading 20:3
15:1 32:3 46:18 40:20 42:14 28:3
substantive 51:5 takes 14:1 25:15 22:7,8 28:19 transaction 8:4
25:5 37:25 38:4,7 22:2,20 24:16 8:14,15 24:24
41:24 38:12 41:11 29:4 30:10 wrong 4:18 12:06 55:8
43:7,17 44:20 42:14,20 49:22 23:11,12 53:7 19 39:15
27:8,22 47:8,12,20 wanted 23:22 X
39:7,11 48:9,17 50:13 wants 34:22 x 1:2,8 2
52:7 50:16,22,22 36:13 2 19:14
urge 51:7 wasn't 12:14 51:11 271(f) 38:5
urgent 29:24 way 4:14 25:19 1:18 20:14,15
29:2,21 3
37:25 U.S 8:2 21:13,1642:14 54:23,24 39:22 40:1,5,7
50:4,5 21:16 32:10,25wealth 28:4 40:11
V wheel 52:22 30(b) 39:16
16:14 valid 30:8 wire 36:15 $25 20:1
18:24 valuation 8:18 wish 5:15 5
23:2 26:8 various 10:22 Wolfson 51:22 0 5 41:7 42:10
28:2 33:9 word 30:23 08-1191 1:5 3:4 52 2:14
43:11 vexatious 36:4 words 25:18
victimize 44:25 31:2,2 54:9,12 1 7
14:21 49:17 1.1 36:4
violated 43:12 50:10 43:13,16 44:19
8:6 9:23 11:22 36:21 21:24 10:11 11:23
11:10,15 violations 36:16 wouldn't 4:16 13:11 19:7
36:16 8:21 9:11 11:2 26:10,17 40:1
15:23,25 vitamins 41:23 11:22 14:2 40:6,7 42:21
18:1,21 39:25 11 9:15
20:17 W 11:07 1:14 3:2
26:23 wait 45:5 19:11 12(b)(1) 4:20
31:6,9 want 4:8 16:15 written 7:23 12(b)(6) 4:19
36:20 18:4,9,12,20
