IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-1423
OMEGA, S.A. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 8, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Petitioner.
AARON M. PANNER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondent.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
AARON M. PANNER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 21
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as
amicus curiae, supporting Respondent 38
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 47
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 08-1423, Costco
Wholesale Corporation v. Omega.
Mr. Englert.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ENGLERT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
This case is a repeat of Quality
King v. L'anza with only one pertinent difference. Both
cases involve goods not authorized for importation into
the United States. Both cases involve arguments that
the first sale doctrine must be narrowly construed, thus
the Copyright Act's importation ban, section 602(a), be
given less than its supposedly intended scope. The only
difference is place of manufacture of the goods.
Quality King involved U.S. manufactured goods; this case
involves goods made in Switzerland.
According to the Ninth Circuit in Omega,
Congress intended to treat foreign manufactured goods
better in this respect than goods made in the United
States. It is wildly implausible that Congress had any
such intent.
From 1790 to 1891, foreigners were
categorically ineligible to hold U.S. copyrights. From
1891 to 1986, the United States discriminated against
foreign manufacturing of copyrighted goods through a
series of so-called manufacturing clauses, including
section 601 of the 1976 Act. If Congress intended to
make the first sale doctrine discriminate in favor of
foreign manufacturing at the same time, one would expect
some note to be taken of that fact in the legislative
history, but none is. And yet the Ninth Circuit held
that Congress in 1976 altered the long-established first
sale doctrine to make it uniquely favorable to foreign
manufacturing of copyrighted goods and did so through
the obscure phrase, "lawfully made under this title," in
section 109.
No one in all the briefs in this case has
identified a single reason why Congress would have
wanted to do so. Moreover, the words "lawfully made
under this title" are used elsewhere in the Copyright
Act, and they never mean what the Ninth Circuit said
they mean in section 109.
Most instructive is the very next section
after section 109, section 110, which governs
educational use of copyrighted works and was enacted
contemporaneously with 109. In describing the kinds of
works teachers may show students in their classroom
without fear of copyright liability, Congress referred
to works lawfully made under this title. Our briefs
have pointed out the absurdity of construing the phrase
in section 110 to mean made in the United States, and
it's very revealing how Respondent and its amici have
tried to answer that point.
Omega says "lawfully made under this title"
means either made in the United States or authorized for
distribution in the United States. That argument gives
up any pretense -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would you clarify for me
what your exact meaning is? There -- your blue brief
and your reply brief appear to give two different
meanings.
MR. ENGLERT: I hope not, Your Honor. I
believe our -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Your reply brief
suggests that if Omega grants foreign reproduction and
distribution rights but retains U.S. rights, that the
first sale doctrine would allow Omega to bar
importation.
MR. ENGLERT: If it grants exclusive foreign
distribution.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why does it matter?
Because your blue brief says that "lawfully made" means
anything that was made with Omega's consent or
authority. So why the difference at all?
MR. ENGLERT: It matters, Your Honor,
because of the underlying rationale of the first sale
doctrine and the underlying rationale of the import ban
in section 602.
The purpose of the first sale doctrine is to
make sure that the copyright owner gets one and only one
recompense for each copy, for each lawfully made copy.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if he sells his
rights to a foreign manufacturer and distributor, he
gets paid for those rights. Why should he now have any
additional rights to bar that authorized copy -
MR. ENGLERT: The reason, Your -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- from being imported
into the United States?
MR. ENGLERT: Yes, Your Honor. The -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I don't understand
what -
MR. ENGLERT: The reason is to give effect
to the examples given in the legislative history of
section 602.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Not -- you mean to the
examples in the legislative history or in the examples
in Quality King?
MR. ENGLERT: Oh. The Quality King has a
paragraph, much discussed in the briefs, which cites to
the legislative history of section 602 and in
particular, cites to witness statements that are in the
committee prints that are part of the legislative
history of section 602.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So do you think that
there is a difference between assigning a copyright to a
foreign entity or merely licensing a foreign entity?
One of the criticisms of your approach is that you would
draw a line between those two.
MR. ENGLERT: We don't draw a line between
those two, Your Honor.
The line is -- depends on whether the
copyright owner has given exclusive foreign rights to
someone else. And the reason the exclusivity of the
foreign rights matters is because that is the example
given in the legislative history of 602 and in the
paragraph in Quality King.
And to give meaning to section 602 and to be
completely consistent with the rationale of the first
sale doctrine, one must draw some line. Drawing a line
between the U.S. manufacturer and the foreign
manufacturer makes no sense. It's not consistent with
the purposes of anything.
Drawing a line between the exclusive grant
of rights, whether by license or assignment to a foreign
manufacturer -- or a foreign distributor, rather, and
not granting such exclusive rights is perfectly
consistent with the rationale -
JUSTICE BREYER: You are talking about the
first sale doctrine. The perfectly consistent rationale
would be whether there is a first sale. So -- so 109,
though it doesn't say it, but if you look at the history
and title, there has to be a transfer.
So in fact, if a British publisher with a
British right given by an American author or publisher
makes this, 109 doesn't apply -- I mean, 109 doesn't
apply until there's a sale.
Now, that makes -- you -- you haven't
adopted that. Nobody -- I guess maybe one of the amicus
briefs does, but I don't see why that isn't perfectly
sensible and I find no authority against it.
MR. ENGLERT: Well, Your Honor, since that's
a -- a broader position than ours, and we would -
JUSTICE BREYER: I know it is, but it -- the
trouble with your position is it gets everybody, I
think, going to be -- I mean, I don't know what all
these contracts say. There are hundreds of thousands of
them, if not millions. What I don't see is why you
don't just say: The first sale doctrine has always
meant there was a transfer or sale.
It meant that in 1792, when I took Phil
Arita's antitrust course, and he used to bring it up.
You go back to the 18th century. It's always meant
there has to be a sale or transfer. So why don't we
just read 109 that way, and there you give meaning to
everything, and there is just no problem?
Now, I raise that not because -- I raise it
because since there's only a few people really
supporting this, there must be some problem with what I
say. So what is it?
MR. ENGLERT: Well, the issue, Your Honor -
and you're putting me in a position of arguing against
myself a little bit, but the issue is a fair reading of
the legislative history of section 602 -- not the text,
but the legislative history -- is that Congress did
intend to allow certain blocking of imported goods when
there had been -
JUSTICE BREYER: Of course, if you say there
has to be a first sale, there is no problem. You block
that British manufacturer from sending his books to the
United States, but you don't block the person to whom he
sells it. Gives meaning to everything.
MR. ENGLERT: Okay, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, no, I'm putting
that to you, because since you haven't advocated it, I
must be missing something, and I'm not an expert in
copyright law. What am I missing?
MR. ENGLERT: Well, there is a dictum in
this Court's opinion in Quality King that suggests that
if a publisher and a -- an American publisher gives
exclusive rights to a British publisher, if an American
author or a British author gives exclusive territorial
rights to two different publishers, then 602 retains
meaning in that -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Exactly, and that's what
it does under my theory, because there has been no first
sale.
MR. ENGLERT: No, but -- with respect, Your
Honor, it's my understanding of both the legislative
history and this Court's dictum that they refer to
second and subsequent sales.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, you mean you are
talking about jobbers? Somebody goes and buys, and so
they're -- and so then you lose, because if that's what
we are supposed to follow, those excerpts in the
legislative history, then it would mean that a person
who buys from the British publisher cannot import into
the United States because 109 doesn't apply.
MR. ENGLERT: No, that's not what the
example means. It doesn't say categorically all second
sales from British publishers are not subject to the
first sale doctrine. What it says is in a situation in
which rights have been divided and exclusive territorial
rights have been given in two different countries, or to
put it in copyright language, in the language you also
used in the legislative history, when the copyright
owner has divided its rights because an innovation of
the '76 act, the Copyright Act, the copyrights became
divisible.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where do you get that in
the text? I mean, that's lovely, and you're saying that
what Justice Breyer suggests makes perfect sense except
for dictum and legislative history. Does your position
make any sense with regard to text?
MR. ENGLERT: Yes, absolutely, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where? Where is that
limitation in the text?
MR. ENGLERT: The other side's effort to
read 602 broadly has no support in the text after
Quality King, but -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm talking about your -
MR. ENGLERT: I understand.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- your limitation on
exclusive rights abroad versus nonexclusive rights
abroad. Where can you possibly find that in the text?
MR. ENGLERT: You cannot.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh. Well, that's the end
of it for me.
MR. ENGLERT: Let us -
JUSTICE BREYER: I have to say, I didn't
even see it in the legislative history. I didn't think
they made a big deal about jobbers. I like history
here. Go back to 1792.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Englert, also talk
about what, if anything, 602(a)(1) does, then. It seems
602(a)(2) is dealing with infringing goods, with pirated
goods. So given the first sale doctrine as you construe
it, what does 602(a)(1) protect?
MR. ENGLERT: 602(a)(1) is limited to
imports and doesn't confer a private right of action.
602(a)(2), which was enacted after the Ninth Circuit
ruled in this case, adds a private right of action and
adds exports. But it is -- 602(a)(2) is a new statute.
It was not part of the 1976 Copyright Act. So it -- it
is a subsection in which Congress expanded on what was
already prohibited in 602(a)(1).
Now, with respect to text, the text that the
Court is construing is five words, "lawfully made under
this title." And those five words are used several
places in the Copyright Act, including section 110, "for
educational use." The government says "lawfully made
under this title" can mean two different things in
section 109 and section 110, provisions of the same
chapter of the Copyright Act enacted contemporaneously.
As a fallback position, the government says
there is nothing wrong with having copyright liability
for teachers who show foreign-made films in the
classroom as long as they know they weren't made in the
United States. So, for example, showing an Ingmar
Bergman film, The Seventh Seal, in class would be
copyright infringement according to the government.
Even the people who make movies don't agree
with that argument. The Motion Picture Association of
America has filed an amicus brief in this case, and on
page 19 of its brief, the MPAA says that the result the
government says is A-OK is, quote, "a nonsensical and
unintended consequence." The MPAA goes on to say there
is no evidence that such liability has ever been
imposed, but that argument misses the point. We are
trying to ascertain what Congress meant by using the
phrase "lawfully made under this title," not making a
policy argument about consequences, and section 110
remains a powerful argument that Congress didn't use the
phrase to mean "made in the United States."
There is nothing extraterritorial about
construing "lawfully made in this title" as a choice of
law clause, which means: Lawfully made according to
standards of the U.S. Copyright Act anywhere in the
world. In that respect, this case is no different from
Quality King, in which the court rejected an
extraterritoriality argument in a two-sentence footnote.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't really mean -
your position is that "lawfully made under this title"
means that -- means "would have been lawfully made under
this title if this title governed." Isn't that
basically what you are saying?
MR. ENGLERT: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. But there is another
provision of the statute -- I forget where it is -
which says that in so many words.
MR. ENGLERT: Not quite, Your Honor. In
section 602(a)(2) and in section 602(b), Congress used
the phrase, "would have constituted an infringement if
this title had been applicable," and it says -
JUSTICE SCALIA: "If this title had been
applicable," right? We say "applicable." Much
prettier.
MR. ENGLERT: Okay, sir. Yes, that is the
phrase Congress used to express a certain disfavored
class of goods, goods that would have been infringing if
this title would have been applicable. 110 -- 109,
excuse me, and 110 are a different purpose. They are
the purpose of favoring goods, goods that have been
lawfully made under this title.
So, yes, Congress could have chosen to use a
variation of the phrase "if this title had been
applicable" under 109, but it didn't. And we are left
with the language Congress enacted, but it is language
that Congress uses at least four different places in the
Copyright Act, and we have a pretty good idea that it
doesn't mean "made in the United States" and it doesn't
mean what Omega says it means, which is "made in the
United States or authorized at any time for distribution
in the United States."
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you -- I see
that 602(a) is now broken into (1) and (2) and it's
602(b) that you put entirely in quotes. But what does
602(a) shelter? How does it coexist with the first sale
doctrine?
MR. ENGLERT: Well, Your Honor, as you know,
there is no reference in the legislative history to the
interaction between 602(a) and 109, and therefore, this
Court had to address that question for the first time in
Quality King, and the Court rejected the argument that
109 is inapplicable to imported goods altogether.
The Court did say in a dictum which has been
discussed already this morning that if a British and an
American publisher divide rights, then section 602(a)
does have a role to play. But the Court did not say
books manufactured in Britain are not subject to the
first sale doctrine.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was a concurring
opinion that says -- that said this case is about a
round trip and doesn't talk to goods that -
MR. ENGLERT: Correct, and the concurring
opinion cited two distinguished copyright treatises that
suggested there was some concern about
extraterritoriality in this case. Well, even the
government has conceded there is no concern about
extraterritoriality in this case, so the rationale of
those treatises, learned though they are, is undermined.
If one looks more closely at those
treatises, they argue the language is so plain that it
can only be construed one way. The government concedes
that's not true. They argue extraterritoriality, as
I've already said, and they argue that this court's
dictum in Quality King -- the later additions to those
treatises argue that this Court's dictum in Quality King
drew a distinction based on place of manufacture, but
it's only the concurring opinion, not the dictum in the
court's opinion that mentions place of manufacture. So
it's a vert thin reed to say that the case turned on
place of manufacture. And again, one can find nothing
in the Quality King dictum, nothing in the legislative
history of 602, nothing in the legislative history of
109 that talks about place of manufacture.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And nothing in the text
that supports your position.
MR. ENGLERT: No. What supports our
position, Your Honor, is the text of 109, the use of the
phrase "lawfully made under this title," and the use of
that phrase "elsewhere in the Copyright Act."
JUSTICE SCALIA: You pulled out of the sky
this distinction between having created exclusive rights
abroad and having created nonexclusive rights abroad.
Where does that come from?
MR. ENGLERT: That comes from the
legislative history, Your Honor. And for those who
prefer not to look at legislative history -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You use -
MR. ENGLERT: -- that distinction may not
hold up. But if that distinction doesn't hold up -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know why using -
MR. ENGLERT: -- that strengthens my
position.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did the legislative history
suggest what part of the text this -- this novel
suggestion was based upon?
MR. ENGLERT: It does not. The relevant
legislative history is witness statements.
JUSTICE BREYER: I do read legislative
history, but I didn't really find anything that said
that they were worried about an American and a British
publisher dividing rights, and they want them to do
that. There is no problem with that, because there has
never been a sale. So they divide the rights.
And there isn't even a problem with -- with
buyers from the British publisher, because a reasonable
vertically imposed territorial agreement or other
restriction on resale is lawful.
MR. ENGLERT: Well, if -
JUSTICE BREYER: And if it's reasonable,
they don't even need copyright.
MR. ENGLERT: That was not true at the time.
JUSTICE BREYER: If it isn't reasonable, why
should they have it?
MR. ENGLERT: Pardon me, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's all you -- yes, I
just want you to respond.
MR. ENGLERT: It was not lawful at the time
of the enactment of this statute. This Court had not
yet decided GTE Sylvania, and territorial restrictions
were per se unlawful at the time Congress enacted this
statute.
JUSTICE BREYER: Here. But in Europe, I
guess, they were lawful.
MR. ENGLERT: I don't know the state of the
law in Europe.
JUSTICE BREYER: I think -- I think it's
always been true.
MR. ENGLERT: But, again, what the Court has
asked me many questions about is whether I'm giving too
broad a scope to section 602 and too narrow a scope to
section 109.
Our position is that section 109 has a
necessarily broad reach, and we have tried to
accommodate the legislative history and the dictum in
Quality King to give some role for section 602 to play
in the case of nonpiratical goods. If the Court wants
to reject anything, if it wants to reconsider the dictum
in Quality King or not rely on legislative history, that
makes my position -
JUSTICE BREYER: My question really wasn't
to argue with you. My question was: Where in the
legislative history does it say that the point of 602 is
to prevent a foreign publisher from selling copies to a
distributor and then that distributor resells them to
the United States? I'm not saying it doesn't; it's just
that I didn't focus on those particular words directly.
MR. ENGLERT: And Justice Breyer, to be fair
about what the legislative history says, it is
statements by witnesses. It is not statements by
committee, so it's a little bit hard to tell where
they're drawing the line.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh. In other words,
somebody wanted that. I understand the industry wanted
it. But -- but I -- is there anything in there that
suggests that this is what Congress wanted to do,
members of Congress? Even I draw the line somewhere.
(Laughter.)
MR. ENGLERT: Yes. Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me write that down.
(Laughter.)
MR. ENGLERT: Justice Breyer, we do know
that section 602(a) has some role to play. And when
this Court was trying to figure out in Quality King what
role it had to play it did look to the statements of
Mrs. Harriet Pilpel, Mr. Horace Manges from the American
Book Publishers Council. And those are the statements
that the Court said in dicta presumably reflected
congressional intent, and so I am relying on those
statements for the limitation of section 109 to
accommodate section 602.
But again, if the Court disagrees with me
and wants to give less of a role to 602 and more of a
role to section 109, that is, of course, further
assistance to my position.
I would like to reserve the balance of my
time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Englert.
Mr. Panner.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF AARON M. PANNER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. PANNER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Section -- section 602(a)(1) allows the
distribution of foreign-made copies abroad without the
U.S. copyright holder forfeiting the exclusive right to
distribute copies domestically, which is guaranteed by
section 106(3), and that provision applies in this case.
And unlike in Quality King, section 109(a) provides
Costco with no defense because the copies at issue were
not lawfully made under this title. That is, the making
of the copies was not subject to or governed by U.S.
copyright law.
The decision of the court of appeals should
not be affirmed for three basic reasons, and the first
depends on the plain language of section 109(a), which
applies only to copies that were lawfully made under
this title.
JUSTICE ALITO: What do you say "made"
means?
MR. PANNER: Well, "made" certainly includes
the creation of the physical copy. It also includes the
addition of any necessary intellectual property rights
that would permit distribution in the United States.
So that is to say that we understand section
109(a) should be read to reach a situation in which copy
has been subject to an authorized sale in the United
States.
JUSTICE ALITO: See, I'm with you, and I
think you -- the text supports you up to the point where
you add the qualification. But once you've added that
qualification, I think you're -- you're outside the
text, just as Costco is outside the text with the
qualification that they had.
MR. PANNER: I don't think so, Your Honor,
and let me try to explain why. Section 202 of the Act
draws a -- a distinction between the material object and
the intellectual property rights that are involved in
the copyright. And it makes sense. The word "made" is
not -- does not correspond to the word "reproduced" in
section 106(1). It's a broader term that can also refer
to the addition of these necessary intellectual property
rights.
And the -- what is, I think, important is
the decision whether the copy was lawfully made under
this title will, of course, be made at the time of the
sale. It is not -- the decision doesn't need to be made
at the time of -- of manufacture, because the question
is: How should section 109(a) or another provision
apply to that particular copy?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in their brief, the
brief for the National Library Association indicates at
the bottom -- the American Library Association indicates
at the bottom of page 38 that "made" might mean cause to
exist, cause to appear, and so that it applies the first
time that U.S. copyright law lawfully could apply; so
that if you lawfully import it into the United States,
it would then apply at that time.
MR. PANNER: Well, I think that that
probably gets us to pretty much the same place,
Justice Kennedy. I think the point is -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it makes the exemption
work, then, too.
MR. PANNER: That's correct, Your Honor.
And the -- that also gives effect to the language of
602(a)(1), because section 602(a)(1) is actually written
in a very broad term. It's written to apply to copies
that have been acquired outside of the United States. I
think -- that is, I think, an answer, Justice Breyer, to
your objection that any sort of sale ought to suffice.
Section 602(a)(1) is designed to permit a
U.S. copyright owner to exclude legitimate copies, and
if you ask where Congress said that, it's right in the
House Committee report, in the legislative history.
JUSTICE BREYER: And it can. It can exclude
legitimate copies before there's a first sale.
MR. PANNER: But the -
JUSTICE BREYER: And the -- the -
question is -- I mean, the text seems to say 602 expands
or falls within 106. All right?
So that's what it says. It says -- it says
it's an infringement of the exclusive right to
distribute copies. That's the 106 right.
MR. PANNER: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: And then 109 is an
exception from 106. So it's automatically an exception
from 602.
MR. PANNER: And I think -
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, that's the text. And
therefore, you are back at what the meaning of 109 is,
if I understand your argument. And it seems to me
that's the choice. If you are going to take 109
literally, then everything that comes into the United
States can't, without the permission of the copyright
holder, but for the exception in (a)(3), and a library
that brings them in under (a)(3) cannot even lend out
the books. That's one choice.
And the other choice is to say that
"lawfully made" means it's made without contravening any
provision of the Act, if the Act were applicable.
MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor -
JUSTICE BREYER: What's a third choice?
Maybe you want a third choice.
MR. PANNER: Well, a small qualification,
Your Honor. The exception in section 602(a)(3) does
allow libraries to lend copies that are imported
pursuant to that section. It's for archival or lending
purposes.
But in any event, I think that that's -- I
don't want to get caught up on the small point. The
more significant point is that section 602(a)(1) is
designed to permit a U.S. copyright owner -- as Costco
admits, it's designed to permit a U.S. copyright owner
to exclude legitimate copies that are made overseas.
If the only issue were one of contract,
there would be no need for section 602(a)(1) because
there would be no need to create a copyright remedy
where contractual remedies are sufficient; that is, in
circumstances where there is privity between the U.S.
copyright owner or the U.S. copyright owner's direct
party and the foreign copyright owner.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's why I started with
the first sale doctrine, because if you apply the first
sale doctrine as it traditionally has been applied and
if you believe that 109 incorporates that, there is
loads of room for 602(a)(1) to act. That's all the
instances where the British publisher published -- makes
the book. What they do is they have a license and they
try to send it to the United States and they can't
without permission because of 602(a)(1), and then 109
doesn't come into play because there's been no first
sale. That's the part of this case that I'm finding the
hardest, because, literally, 109(a) -- as you correctly
point out, 109 doesn't say that literally.
MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, section
602(a)(1) refers specifically to copies that have been
acquired outside of the United States. So it does not
make sense to say that it's limited to the publisher,
because the publisher hasn't acquired the copies. It
has produced the copies.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's all right.
MR. PANNER: So I think that the difficulty
with Costco's reading, by contrast -- and I think that
some of the Court's questions brought that out this
morning -- is that either they -- Costco's reading tends
to eliminate any practical effect for section 602(a)(1)
by making it not apply to legitimate copies or it makes
substantive rights turn on formalities of title, which
is quite inconsistent with the structure of the
Copyright Act, which actually goes out of its way to
make clear that the nature of the rights that are held
by the copyright owner, which is defined to mean the
owner of any of the many rights that comprise the
copyright, are the same regardless of whether there's
been a transfer.
And so when Costco says, for example, that
Omega would have the right to exclude foreign-made
copies that were produced by a transferee, but cannot do
so if it manufactures the copy abroad itself, it really
draws a distinction that has absolutely no basis in the
text of the Copyright Act and that would make
substantive rights, the value of the rights under
602(a)(1) and 106(3), turn on formalities and, again,
transfers that really should make no difference in terms
of the substantive rights that are available to the
copyright owner.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me -- why
didn't they say -- instead of "lawfully made under this
title," why didn't they just say "made in the United
States"?
MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, that's what you say
it means. "Made under this title" means "made in the
United States."
MR. PANNER: That is not our position, Your
Honor. Our position is that "lawfully made under this
title" would include a copy that was manufactured in the
United States, but that it is not so limited, and that
if you look at section 1(e) of our brief, we discuss the
fact that an interpretation of "lawfully made under this
title" to include a copy that includes the necessary
licenses for distribution in the United States is a
consistent reading -- is consistent with the language of
that provision and gives -- and is consistent with the
traditional understanding that section 109(a) is
intended to reflect an exhaustion principle.
So where a U.S. copyright owner has
exhausted rights with respect to a particular copy by
having been compensated for a right that has been
invested into that copy, that can be included in the
making.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's just not in the
text. I mean, like the other side, in order to make
your theory of the text appear reasonable, you have to
bring in a skyhook with a limitation that finds no basis
in the text.
MR. PANNER: I don't think so, Your Honor.
Again, there is -- because the textual evidence is that
there is a distinction between reproduction, which is
the narrow term used in section 106(1), and the broader
term that is used in section 109(a), which is "made" -
and again, that inquiry is always going to occur at the
time of the challenged sale in the United States.
And so the question is as to that topic.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Then you are trying to
rewrite Quality King. Now you are saying that the
entire premise of Quality King is wrong.
MR. PANNER: Not at all, Your Honor, because
in Quality King, what the Court held was that a copy
that is made in the United States is lawfully made under
this title.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Where in Quality King do
you see anything Quality King turning on where the goods
were made?
MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, the reason -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I read the decision and
it barely mentions that, if at all. Its whole premise
was on what the owner did: Did the owner sell this
copy?
MR. PANNER: I don't think so, Your Honor.
What -- there was no challenge in Quality King to the
idea that the copy was lawfully made under this title,
precisely because the copy was made in the United States
where the Copyright Act governs.
This Court said in our Descani case that the
natural reading under this title is subject to or
governed by this title, and therefore it is a perfectly
straightforward reading of the text.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you don't say that. I
mean, you bring in this other qualification.
MR. PANNER: But Your Honor, again, the
distinction is between the question whether -- what the
conduct that is being addressed is simply the
manufacture. That's the case here.
There's -- all that happened here is that
the copies were manufactured in Switzerland and sold in
Switzerland for distribution abroad. That does not
implicate U.S. copyright law at all. U.S. copyright law
provides the copyright owner with certain rights to
exclude. It has no right to exclude the making of a
copy, whatever you want to say the making means, in
Switzerland. And it is for that reason that the Ninth
Circuit correctly determined that the copies at issue
here were not lawfully made under this title.
JUSTICE ALITO: How often does this
situation -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it would be lawfully
made under this title, even though it was made -- you
know, made abroad, if what?
MR. PANNER: If it were made, for example,
pursuant to a license that allowed for distribution in
the United States, there would be an affirmative
exercise of the exclusive right that the copyright
holder has under section 106(3) with respect to that
particular copy. And so it makes perfect sense to say
that that copy is lawfully made under this title,
because you need to look to U.S. law to determine
whether the making of that copy -- even though it took
place overseas, for example -- was governed by -- was
lawful as determined by the rights that are granted -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is isn't the making that is
rendered lawful. It's the importation into the United
States that is rendered lawful by the agreement that you
are relying upon.
MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, the -- the
making -- the question is whether it was lawfully made
under this title. If it was made for distribution in
the United States, it could only be lawfully made for
distribution in the United States if the appropriate
rights were granted by the owner of those rights. And
that is why it makes perfect sense to say -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you are saying -
you are saying that whether or not it's lawfully made
depends on something that happens after it's made?
MR. PANNER: In a particular case, it might
be, Your Honor, but in the typical case -- let's say the
Heartland case -- if a manufacturer has a license under
U.S. copyright to distribute in the United States, it
could be lawfully made at that time.
But I think, Justice Alito, you were going
to ask a question about how often the situation arises,
and I think it's important to point out that there is no
case that Costco has pointed to, and we are not aware of
them, where a U.S. copyright owner has sought to
challenge the resale of a copy where there was an
acknowledged, authorized sale in the United States.
Obviously, this is a significant issue to
bringing -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they still
have that right. You say there is no case. But under
what theory of yours do they not have that right?
MR. PANNER: Because if the sale is
authorized in the United States, then that copy would be
considered lawfully made because it includes the
license. That copy carries with it a license to be
distributed in the United States, which would include
then the right for a lawful owner to resell it. Again,
that's consistent with the language of "made" and it
gives proper effect both to section 602(a)(1), which is
clearly intended to allow the owner of the U.S.
distribution right to exclude legitimate copies that
were made overseas, and it also sensibly construes
section 109(a) to give affect to the exhaustion
principle that underlies it. Which is where a U.S.
copyright owner has exercised his U.S. distribution
rights with regard to a particular copy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Panner, can you
answer Mr. Englert's point what earthly sense would it
make to prefer goods that are manufactured abroad over
those manufactured in the United States?
MR. PANNER: Your Honor, it doesn't create
any sort of a preference, as Mr. Englert -- Mr. Englert
suggests that this is somehow -- prefers the -- the -
the copies that are made abroad. But in the same
breath, he suggests that this will actually promote the
sale of U.S. -- U.S.-manufactured goods because
foreign-manufactured goods may therefore be of suspect
legitimacy for purposes of resale in the United States.
But the key point is that in Quality King
this Court looked at the language of section 109(a), and
it says -- and -- and -- and it emphasized that to
determine the scope of the first sale doctrine that text
is what matters. And it says section 109(a) applies to
goods that are lawfully made under this title.
There was no dispute that goods that are
reproduced in the United States are lawfully made under
this title, because one must have a U.S. -- the U.S.
right in order to lawfully make a copy in the United
States.
JUSTICE BREYER: There's a whole brief filed
that traces the history of that language, and I think
comes to a somewhat different conclusion. Do you want
to say anything about that? It was on the other side.
MR. PANNER: Well, I think that the -
the -- the tracing of the language is -- is helpful,
actually, to understand how section -- the current
section 60 -- excuse me current section 109(a) differs
from section 27, which is, in section 27, what happened
was is that Congress codified in 1909 the idea that the
material object is different from the copyright. And
when it did that, it added that language as a tag-on to
that principle to ensure that it did not end up
overruling legislatively Bobbs-Merrill.
And when the -- when the Congress recodified
the provision in 1976, it actually took section 202, put
it separately, and it -- it codified 109(a) in a way
that is significantly different and then it says
notwithstanding the rights under 106(3) the owner of a
copy lawfully made under this title is entitled to
resell it.
And that needs to then be read in harmony
with section 602(a)(1), which after all, was part of the
same act in 1976, it must be read in such a way as to
give section rule 602(a)(1) sufficient room to perform
the function that it was intended to perform, which is
to ensure that a U.S. copyright owner could protect
domestic distribution rights against competition from
legitimate foreign copies. And that's what it -- that's
precisely what's at issue here.
JUSTICE ALITO: How often do issues
involving 602(a)(1) come up with respect to things like
books, musical recordings, movies, as opposed to the
copyrighted -- the -- the -- the material that is
copyrighted here, a little -- a little insignia, a place
to a label -- put on a label or put on a -- on goods?
MR. PANNER: Thank you, Your Honor, that's a
very good question. There are a number of cases coming
up right now through the Second Circuit that involved
textbooks. This has been -- this has been applied to
all sorts of traditional copyrighted materials, and
indeed that's why the amici who have filed in this case
are not at all limited but include all of the
traditional copyright industries, software, publishing,
movies, music.
And, indeed, Costco does not argue that
there is any legal significance to the fact that -- to
the nature of the image or the fact that it -- that it
is placed on a watch, because I think that Costco is
quite aware that what is really at stake here is whether
section 602(a)(1) will continue to provide effective
protection for the exclusive -
JUSTICE BREYER: The other side, if you go
to -- you go to -- go to Home Depot and buy a desk, and
how do you know -- are you worried that maybe on this
desk it says there was a restriction somewhere, you
could only use it for homes and not for offices? Does
that kind of thing worry you?
MR. PANNER: No, Your Honor, it doesn't.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the reason it doesn't
is because there is a first sale doctrine. Now, aren't
you importing those very things that don't worry us
about Home Depot into the entire world of books,
everything you are talking about?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You may answer,
counsel.
MR. PANNER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I don't think so. And the reason why is
because, first of all this doctrine has existed for
nearly 30 years. It's hornbook law that -- that the
first sale doctrine does not provide a defense in
circumstances where a -- a -- a copyrighted article is
manufactured or reproduced abroad. That has been
well -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That was first. Do
you have a second quickly?
MR. PANNER: Thank you, Your Honor.
And I forgotten what it was.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Panner.
MR. PANNER: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Stewart?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART,
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING RESPONDENT
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
If the government's interpretation of
section 109(a) is a little bit different from either of
the parties, since I want to make clear precisely what
it is, in our view, the words "lawfully made under this
title" mean made subject to and in accordance with Title
17. And because the Copyright Act doesn't apply abroad,
in order for a copy to be made subject to Title 17, it
would have to be created in the United States.
Now, I think our interpretation of the
statute still gives it a slightly different meaning from
the alternative "lawfully made in the United States,"
because at least in theory, it would be possible for the
creation of a copy to entail a violation of
environmental laws, workplace safety laws, minimum wage
laws, et cetera. And it wouldn't be accurate to
characterize a copy made in that way as lawfully made in
the United States, but it would be made -- it would be
lawfully made under this title, because it would be made
subject to and in a manner consistent with the
requirements of the Copyright Act.
Now, with respect to the types of copyright
materials at issue here, the watches are clearly very
different from what Congress had in mind when it enacted
section 602(a)(1). But in other respects, what Omega
was trying to do in this case was exactly what Congress
intended to allow when it expanded the importation
provisions beyond restrictions on importation of radical
copies. The ideal was to allow a copyright owner to
segment markets either to give -- either retain for
itself or to give to another entity exclusive rights
within the United States, but give other rights abroad
to other producers.
And consequently, we argued in Quality King
and we are arguing here that the Court should construe
section 109(a) in a way that doesn't prevent section
602(a) from performing that function.
And the Court in Quality King grappled with
the question of whether applying the -- section 109(a)
to the labels that were at issue in that case would have
the effect of negating 602(a)(1) and the Court said no
it wouldn't, because section 109(a) applies only to
copies that are lawfully made under this title. And the
Court specially said it wouldn't apply to copies that
were made -- lawfully made under the law of the foreign
country.
Now, the Court didn't refer specifically to
the place of manufacture. In giving the example of the
British publisher who would be creating copies under the
law of Great Britain, it didn't specifically say that's
because British law would apply when the copies are made
in England. But I think that's the necessary inference,
because the Court's analysis made quite clear that it
viewed a particular copy as being lawfully made under
the law of one and only one question -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what is your answer to
the argument that if "lawfully made under this title"
means basically made in the United States, that provides
a great incentive to manufacture goods abroad and that
can't possibly be what Congress intended?
MR. STEWART: Well, I think there are -- I
think we would say a couple of things. The question has
been raised whether this gives favored status to a
foreign manufactured goods. And in one sense our
reading -- from -- from the perspective of the copyright
owner, it's true, that this creates something of
potential incentive to manufacture abroad. Now, from
the perspective of the potential importer, you could say
this makes foreign manufactured goods disfavored because
they were harder to get into the country than would be
the case if they had been manufactured within the United
States and had then been sent abroad and -- and
reimported.
I guess the best we can say about the
treatment from the copyright owners' prospective, the
differential treatment of foreign and domestic
manufactured goods is that at least with respect to
goods that were made within the United States, the
copyright owner has exercised rights under United States
law. He has -- it has exercised its exclusive right to
produce the copies in the first instance, whereas the
manufacturer in Omega's position by creating and then
selling the watches abroad, never exercised any of its
Title 17 rights.
And the theory underlying the first sale
doctrine tracing it back to -- to Bobbs-Merrill, the
first articulation by this Court of the -- the doctrine
of the copyright context, the theory is that a copyright
owner who sells the goods, places them in the stream of
commerce, has exercised, as the Court put it in
Bobbs-Merrill, its exclusive right to vend, and
therefore it can claim no more rights under the
copyright laws.
Omega with respect to the
watches at issue here, never exercised any its rights
under title 17, not -- not when the watches were made
and not when they were sold.
I do also want to address the question of
what happens in the circumstance where Omega
manufactures watches abroad, but then voluntarily
imports them into the United States, sells them here;
can it place restrictions on resale because I think it's
an important policy question and here again we get to
the same point in the end as the Respondents do, but we
have a somewhat different textual route to get there.
Our view is that in that circumstance
section 109(a) still would not apply, because even
though the goods were imported into the United States,
they were made abroad, and that's what counts for
determining whether they were lawfully made under this
title. But section 109(a) is simply a safe harbor. It
doesn't prohibit anything. Section 109(a) says if your
conduct falls within these contours then what you are
doing is legal, whether or not it would otherwise
violate the copyright act.
But if there is a dispute as to whether
section 109(a) applies, and a court held that it
doesn't, the consequence is not necessarily that the
conduct is unlawful. The consequence is that you look
to other provisions of title 17 to see whether it is
lawful or not.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in your example, if
there is a lawful importation of the foreign-made good,
then if you interpret "made" as causing to exist of
appear or under these laws, as the library brief
suggests, the first sale doctrine would operate.
MR. STEWART: I think we would say the first
sale doctrine as articulated in Bobbs-Merrill would
operate, but we wouldn't place this within section
109(a).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's the
problem I have with your position. You are suddenly
saying a copyright -- these issues have to be resolved
not within the confines of the Copyright Act, but then
you have to look to -- to common law as well, which is a
very confused situation.
MR. STEWART: I think we would still be
looking to other provisions of the Copyright Act rather
than to common law. That is, in the hypothetical I
describe, clearly there could be no violation of
602(a)(1), because the copies would have been imported
by Omega itself. And so the question is if Omega sells
them within the United States and the buyer attempts to
resell them, would that be an infringement of Omega 17's
rights? And the only claim that Omega could -- I mean
that -- Omega could plausibly make in that circumstance
would be to say, that is a violation of my exclusive
right to distribute copies to the public protected by
section 106(3).
And I think the response would be under
Bobbs-Merrill, the Court already held that once the
copyright owner exercised its exclusive right to vend -
the word which appeared at the statute at the time -
once it had exercised its exclusive right to vend the
copies, it was done with them and had no more rights to
assert.
And there is no reason to give the right to
vend -- the right to distribute under the current law a
broader reading than the right to vend had at that time,
simply because Congress has enacted section 109.
And -- so I think that the -- it would still
be the case that in order to prevail in a copyright
suit, Omega would have to show that not only that
section 109 was inapplicable, but there was a violation
of the exclusive rights and I don't think it would be
able to do that here.
Now in Bobbs-Merrill, the Court was
certainly drawing on common law principles but it said
in the end, its words: "This is exclusively a question
of statutory interpretation." It -- it based its
holding on the language of the Copyright Act as it
existed at that time, specifically the exclusive right
to vend; and the exclusive right to distribute copies to
the public is no different for these purposes under the
current statute.
JUSTICE BREYER: I found the brief I was
looking for which is the American Intellectual Property
Law Association. And they trace this back to Professor
Nimmer's 1965 letter, and they say that the point there
was that they were reading Bobbs-Merrill as it was a
pre-emption question, that they thought that the
copyright law was not pre-empting State law of contract,
and State law of contract had the exception in it which
applied the first sale doctrine. Now if that's the
reasoning, that reasoning would seem to me to apply. We
could look up what the State law is, but my guess is
that the first sale doctrine applies just as much to
goods that come from abroad as to goods that are here at
home.
MR. STEWART: I -- I think with -- with
respect to the pre-emption question, what they had in
mind was a situation in which Omega sells the watch to a
reseller -- to a retailer on condition, for instance,
that the retailer only sell them in a particular way, or
do particular types of advertising, and the reseller
sells them in violation.
JUSTICE BREYER: What Nimmer said is, he
said we want to be sure in his -- in bill back in '64,
'65 -- not to invalidate any State law contractual
restriction on the right of the owner of the particular
copy to dispose, exhibit, et cetera the same.
MR. STEWART: Exactly. I think the language
was chosen in part at least to make clear that although
Omega under in that hypothetical circumstance would have
no remedy under the Copyright Act, it might potentially
have a breach of contract suit against the retailer if
the retailer had breached the agreement with Omega, and
that nothing was -- in the Federal law was intended to
preempt the State law contractual remedies that would
otherwise be available. And I think the language
adequately accomplishes that purpose.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why don't we let -
MR. STEWART: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why don't we let
contract law control the violations of any agreements
with foreigners?
MR. STEWART: Well, I think -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: With respect to
manufacturing and distribution?
MR. STEWART: I think in 1960 -- may I?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Very briefly.
MR. STEWART: Because many of the people
with which Congress were concerned would not be in
privity of contract with the U.S. copyright owner.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Englert, you have nine minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ENGLERT: Thank you, Your Honor.
Justice Ginsberg asked Mr. Panner what
policy Congress could have had in mind to give this
different status to foreign-made goods than to U.S. made
goods, and Mr. Panner's answer, and Mr. Stewart said
something similar, was that in one respect Congress is
disfavoring foreign goods under their interpretation by
making them harder to import. That's not true.
Under both of their theories, as long as the
manufacturer chooses to authorize importation, which is
Omega's test, or as long as an authorized first sale
takes place in the United States, then the first sale
doctrine does apply. So the copyright holder has
control under their theory and it's not harder to import
the goods.
In the briefs in this case you will not find
anyone making any policy argument as to what Congress
could have had in mind to favor foreign-manufactured
goods.
The heart of Mr. Panner's argument was that
Costco's position either eliminates any significant role
for section 602(a)(1) or makes section 602(a)(1) turn on
formalities of transfer of title. Neither of those
propositions is true. This Court in Quality King
addressed the role that section 602(a)(1) has to play if
section 109 is applicable to imported goods, and the
answer was it still applies to nonowners. That was the
Court's first answer.
The dictum that has been much discussed this
morning was another answer but the Court's first answer
was that it still applies to nonowners, and because, for
example, software is licensed there is a very live issue
about whether the first sale doctrine applies to
lawfully acquired copies of -- of software. So
602(a)(1) has a role to play under anyone's
interpretation.
Now Mr. Panner asserts that our answers to
some of the questions that the Court has asked in our
efforts to harmonize our position with the dictum in
Quality King make 602(a)(1) turn on formalities of
transfer of title. Our position can perhaps be
criticized and has been criticized this morning not for
having a textual basis, but it cannot be criticized for
making anything turn on formalities.
Our position turns on the economic realities
of the situation. If the copyright owner gets its one
reward, the first sale doctrine applies; if the
copyright owner doesn't get its run reward, because for
example it has given the exclusive foreign manufacturing
rights to someone else, and retained or assigned or
licensed the exclusive U.S. manufacturing rights, then
602(a)(1) has a role to play. So neither of Mr.
Panner's criticisms of our position is correct.
Mr. Panner asserted that section 109(a)
differs from section 27, the predecessor statute in the
1947 Act, which in turn was Section 41 of the 1909 Act.
This Court said the exact opposite in Quality King.
It said there is no evidence of any attempt
to narrow the first sale doctrine through the language
of section 109(a). And if one looks at the House
report -- again, getting into legislative history, which
some members of the Court do not like to get into -- but
if one looks at the House report, the first sentence of
the relevant part of the House report is section 109(a)
restates and confirms the principle that where the
copyright owner has transferred ownership of a
particular copy or phonorecord of a work, the person to
whom the copy or phonorecord is transferred is entitled
to dispose of it by sale, rental or other means. No
hint that using "lawfully made" under this title to
narrow the doctrine.
The last sentence of the relevant part of
the House report: To come within the scope of section
109(a) a copy or phonorecord must have been lawfully
made under this title though not necessarily with the
copyright owner's authorization. For example, any
resale of an illegally pirated phonorecord would be an
infringement, but the disposition of a phonorecord
legally made under the compulsory licensing provisions
of section 115, would not.
So what does the House report on section 109
tell us? It tells us that lawfully made under this
title was intended to expand the category of covered
works beyond just those made by the copyright owner, or
with the authorization of the copyright owner. But
under Omega's and the government's position, that phrase
is used to contract the scope of the first sale doctrine
in derogation of the common law, imposing a restraint on
alienation for foreign-made goods that is not imposed on
U.S.-made goods.
With respect to the policy incentives that
it creates it's undeniable that it creates an incentive
for outsourcing of manufacture. The government admitted
that in its cert stage brief, and again, in its brief in
this Court. Obviously if Congress wants to create an
incentive for outsourcing, that's probably within its
power as long as it can be said somehow to advance
science and the useful arts; but there is simply not a
shred of evidence in text or legislative history that
Congress intended to encourage outsourcing; quite the
contrary.
The very controversial section 601, the
adjacent section to section 602, required that
nondramatic literary works in the English language be
manufactured in the United States or Canada or else they
would not be eligible for a U.S. copyright. So we know
that the 1976 Congress wanted to favor the domestic
printing industry, not to disfavor it; and yet their
interpretation of 602 and 109 would disfavor domestic
printing industry and any domestic manufacturing
industry. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:00 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
21:16 42:5 33:24 37:10 2:2,5,8,12 3:4,7 aware 32:24
52:1 adds 12:20,21 answers 48:23 16:2 21:16 25:7 a.m 1:13 3:2
21:21 46:18 anyone's 48:21 47:10 48:3,6
31:3,15
34:5
38:14
40:16,24
42:7,16
15:10 25:16 asked 19:15 45:2
21:6
46:14 applies 21:24 asserts 48:23 basis 28:1 29:11
34:14 39:24 assigning 7:9 behalf 1:15,17
48:20
32:21 49:8 Association 38:5 47:11
40:13 apply 8:14,15 13:16 23:18,19 believe 5:17
12:22
14:6
33:16 23:24 24:8 attempt 49:19 Bergman 13:13
17:15
26:14 27:13 attempts 43:25 best 41:6
25:16,16
27:16
30:15
38:14
42:22
45:3
49:17,17
16:6 archival 25:23 authorized 3:13 block 9:22,24
21:1 argue 16:21,23 5:9 6:14 15:16 blocking 9:19
45:9 16:24 17:1 20:2 22:18 33:2,9 blue 5:13 6:1
13:17 38:6 arguing 9:15 25:2 43:10 44:8,24
36:3 37:8 buyers 18:16 43:13 47:3,7 29:5 7:25 8:6,8
10:2,20 carries 33:11 46:10 50:15 39:17
12:8 18:9 case 3:4,11,19 Circuit 3:21 4:10 conceded 16:17 construed 3:15
4:16 12:20 4:20 12:19 31:9 concedes 16:22 16:22
20:1 13:17 14:7 36:9 concern 16:15,17 construes 33:18
16:11,16,18 circumstance concerned 47:5 construing 5:4
17:5 19:22 42:6,13 44:3 conclusion 34:23 13:1 14:4
26:13 21:24 26:23 46:11 concurring 16:10 contemporane...
34:21 30:16,25 32:16 circumstances 16:13 17:3 4:25 13:7
37:5 45:8 32:17,18,24 26:10 37:17 condition 45:25 context 41:20
33:6 36:12 39:8 cited 16:14 conduct 30:24 continue 36:21
13:17,18 44:19 48:2 claim 41:24 44:2 confer 12:18 contract 26:6
28:20 51:24,25 clarify 5:12 confines 43:16 45:14,15 46:13
43:7 45:8 cases 3:13,14 class 13:13 15:3 confirms 50:1 46:22 47:6
36:8 classroom 5:1 confused 43:18 50:23
8:18 48:2 category 50:19 clauses 4:5 5:2 9:18 12:23 46:6,16
cause 23:20,21 40:10 46:10 15:2,8,11,12 contrast 27:9
10:9,10,25 31:5 coexist 15:21 47:17 48:3 51:6 controversial
16:5 18:11 certainly 22:12 come 17:19 51:11,18 51:13
26:18 44:25 26:22 36:2 congressional copies 20:4
cetera 38:23 45:20 50:9 21:4 21:21,23 22:1,3
challenge 30:12 25:9 34:23 consequence 24:24 25:22
29:16 challenged 29:19 commerce 41:22 43:1 27:13,24 31:2,9
chapter 13:7 committee 7:6 consequences 33:17 34:5
32:13
48:20 3:5 51:3,3 17:1,3,7 19:20 44:5,15 45:5
23:11 24:5,25 49:14 41:14 difference 3:12 distribution 5:10
27:25 correctly 26:24 creation 22:13 3:18 6:3 7:9 5:20,24 15:16
29:4,6 31:9 38:21 28:5 21:21 22:15
30:10,13 correspond 23:6 criticisms 7:11 different 5:14 28:23 31:3,17
31:7,21 Costco 1:3 3:4 49:14 10:11 11:7 13:5 32:8,10 33:17
33:1,9 22:1,24 26:3 criticized 49:3,3 14:7 15:5,12 33:21 35:23
34:19 27:22 32:24 49:4 34:23 35:6,13 47:1
38:15,21 36:16,19 curiae 1:21 2:11 38:10,18 39:6 distributor 6:12
40:11 Costco's 27:9,11 38:6 42:12 45:6 8:4 20:5,5
50:3,4,10 48:7 current 35:2,3 47:15 divide 16:6 18:14
5:2 6:9 7:9 counsel 37:11 differs 35:3 dividing 18:12
10:5 11:8 47:7 51:23 D 49:16 divisible 11:12
12:22 countries 11:7 D 3:1 difficulty 27:8 doctrine 3:15 4:7
country 40:3 deal 12:10 direct 26:11 4:12 5:21 6:6,8
15:13 41:2 dealing 12:14 directly 20:7 7:23 8:8 9:2
17:15 counts 42:16 decided 19:5 disagrees 21:7 11:5 12:15
21:22 couple 40:19 decision 22:5 discriminate 4:7 15:22 16:9
23:5,22 course 9:5,21 23:11,13 30:7 discriminated 26:14,15 34:13
25:10 21:9 23:12 defense 22:1 4:3 37:6,14,16
court 1:1,12 3:10 37:16 discuss 28:20 41:18,19 43:8
27:16,18 13:1 14:8 16:1 defined 27:18 discussed 7:3 43:10 45:16,19
28:2,7 16:2,4,7 19:4 Department 1:20 16:5 48:15 47:24 48:19
30:15 31:4 19:14,22 20:24 depends 7:15 disfavor 51:19 49:8,20 50:7,23
32:19 21:3,7,19 22:5 22:7 32:15 51:20 doing 42:21
33:21 29:25 30:16 Depot 36:24 37:8 disfavored 15:2 domestic 35:23
36:14 34:11 38:8 Deputy 1:19 41:1 41:8 51:18,20
39:3,4,11 39:17,20,23 derogation 50:24 disfavoring 51:21
41:7,11 40:1,4 41:19,22 Descani 30:16 47:18 domestically
42:24 44:8,24 describe 43:22 dispose 46:8 21:23
43:15,16 48:10,24 49:18 describing 4:25 50:5 draw 7:12,13,23
44:9,19 49:23 51:6 designed 24:12 disposition 50:14 20:17
46:12 court's 10:7,18 26:3,4 dispute 34:16 drawing 7:23 8:2
49:7,9 16:24 17:1,4 desk 36:24 37:1 42:23 20:12 44:25
27:10 40:10 determine 31:23 distinction 17:2 draws 23:3 28:1
48:14,16 34:13 17:17,24,25 drew 17:2
36:4,5 create 26:8 34:2 32:1 30:23
37:17 51:6 determining distinguished E
38:16 dicta 21:3 distribute 21:23 earthly 33:24
16:4,25 educational 4:24
entitled 35:15 exercise 31:19 17:6 18:10 48:2 found 45:8
33:15 entity 7:10,10 41:11,12,15,22 finds 29:11 function 35:21
39:13 42:2 44:9,11 first 3:4,15 4:7 39:19
39:12,12 et 38:23 46:8 exist 23:21 43:6 16:1,9 22:6 General 1:19
Europe 19:8,11 existed 37:14 23:21 24:17 getting 49:22
51:10 expands 24:20 45:16,19 47:22 give 5:14 6:21
13:7 exactly 10:13 expert 10:4 48:19 49:8,20 21:8 33:19
19:6 39:6 39:8 46:9 explain 23:2 49:24 50:23 35:20 39:12,13
example 7:18 exports 12:21 five 13:1,2 39:14 44:14
3:6,7,9 examples 6:22 14:9 16:16,18 4:8,12 5:19,23 49:10
6:4,15 6:25,25 16:23 6:12 7:10,10,16 gives 5:10 9:25
7:2,13 exception 25:2,2 7:18,24 8:3,4 10:8,10 24:6
9:14 10:1 25:11,21 45:15 F 20:4 26:12 28:25 33:15
11:2,18 excerpts 10:23 fact 4:9 8:12 35:24 40:2,21 38:18 40:20
12:4,7 exclude 24:13,16 28:21 36:17,18 41:1,8 47:18 giving 19:15 40:5
14:15 26:5 27:23 31:6 fair 9:16 20:8 49:10 go 9:6 12:11
15:1,23 31:6 33:17 fallback 13:8 foreigners 4:1 36:23,24,24
17:12,20 exclusive 5:23 falls 24:21 42:20 46:23 goes 10:21 13:20
18:2,7,19 7:16 8:2,5 10:9 favor 4:7 48:4 foreign-made 27:16
19:3 10:10 11:6 12:2 51:18 13:10 21:21 going 8:24 25:8
20:8 17:17 21:22 favorable 4:12 27:23 43:5 29:18 32:21
21:14 24:23 31:19 favored 40:20 47:15 50:25 good 15:13 36:8
47:8,10 36:22 39:13 favoring 15:6 foreign-manuf... 43:5
41:12,23 44:4,9 fear 5:2 34:8 48:4 goods 3:13,18,19
41:1,9 29:25 42:24 idea 15:13 30:13 indicates 23:18 issue 9:14,16
42:15 44:8 35:5 23:19 22:1 26:6 31:9
47:15 helpful 35:1 ideal 39:11 industries 36:14 33:3 35:25 39:5
48:1,5 hint 50:6 identified 4:17 industry 20:14 39:22 42:2
50:25 history 4:10 6:22 illegally 50:13 51:19,21,22 48:18
6:25 7:4,7,19 image 36:18 ineligible 4:2 issues 36:1 43:15
30:18 10:18,24 11:9 implicate 31:4 infringement J
11:16 12:9,10 import 6:6 10:25 13:14 14:21 jobbers 10:21
17:22 18:4,8,10 important 23:10 50:14 JR 1:15 2:3,13
51:4 19:20,24 20:3,9 32:23 42:10 infringing 12:14 3:7 47:10
50:22 49:22 51:10 3:16 5:22 32:3 Ingmar 13:12 3:9 5:12,18,25
holder 21:22 47:21 inquiry 29:18 7:8 8:7,22 9:21
9:14 10:1,17 imposed 13:22 intend 9:19 20:1,8,13,20
45:18 15:23 17:13,21 imposing 50:24 4:6 29:2 33:16 22:10,20 23:17
24:5 25:17 inapplicable 16:3 35:21 39:9 24:2,3,10,16
29:24 30:6,11 40:24 51:3,7 intent 3:25 21:4 28:13 29:8,21
34:2 36:7 37:4 include 28:18,22 interpret 43:6 31:13 32:2,13
hornbook 37:15 22:13 28:22 48:22 51:20 37:25 38:3,7
46:11 incorporates involves 3:20
involving 36:2
lawfully 4:14,18 13:21 M 1:17 2:6 21:16 27:18 28:13
10:7 23:11,22,23 31:17 32:18 49:5 10:12 25:6
14:8 16:2 25:15 28:9,17 33:11,11 MALCOLM 38:18
17:1,7 28:21 30:1,13 licensed 48:18 1:19 2:9 38:4 meanings 5:15
20:24 31:10,13,22 49:12 Manges 21:1 means 5:9 6:1
29:22,23 32:7,9,14,20 licenses 28:23 manner 39:2 11:3 14:5,12,12
30:3,4,12 33:10 34:15,17 licensing 7:10 manufacture 15:15 22:11
39:16,20 34:19 35:15 50:15 3:18 17:2,4,6,9 25:15 28:14,14
49:1,18 38:12,19,24 limitation 11:20 23:14 30:25 31:7 40:15 50:5
15:23 40:14 42:17 limited 12:17 manufactured 13:23
19:10 48:20 50:6,10 27:4 28:19 3:19,22 16:8 members 20:17
31:15 50:18 36:13 28:18 31:2 49:23
51:17 laws 38:22,22,23 line 7:12,13,15 33:25 34:1,7 mentions 17:4
43:7 7:23,23 8:2 37:18 40:21 30:8
16:21 6:22,25 7:4,6 36:5,5 38:10 manufactures minutes 47:8
24:6 28:24 7:19 9:17,18 live 48:18 27:25 42:7 misses 13:22
34:11,22 10:17,24 11:9 loads 26:17 manufacturing missing 10:4,5
45:3 11:16 12:9 long 13:11 47:20 4:4,5,8,13 47:1 Monday 1:9
49:20 15:24 17:7,8,21 47:22 51:8 49:10,12 51:21 morning 3:4 16:5
17:22 18:4,8,9 long-established markets 39:12 27:11 48:16
37:24 24:15 49:22 look 8:10 17:22 35:6 36:4 Motion 13:16
22:4 legislatively 35:9 31:23 43:1,17 39:5 36:3,15
31:4,4,23 legitimacy 34:9 45:18 matter 1:11 5:25 MPAA 13:18,20
40:2,7,8 legitimate 24:13 looked 34:11 52:1 music 36:15
41:12 24:17 26:5 looking 43:20 matters 6:4 7:18 musical 36:3
44:15 27:13 33:17 45:9 34:14
45:10,14 35:24 looks 16:20 mean 4:20,21 5:5 N
lend 25:12,22 49:21,24 6:24 8:14,24 N 2:1,1 3:1
lending 25:23 lose 10:22 10:2,20,24 narrow 19:16
letter 45:11 lovely 11:14 11:14 13:5 14:2 29:16 49:20
32:1,3,4 liability 5:2 13:9 23:20 24:20 narrowly 3:15
43:3,5 M National 23:18
occur 29:18 44:9 46:7 47:6 perfectly 8:5,8 please 3:10
42:25 12:5 20:13 owners 41:7 35:21 20:3 22:21 24:2
Okay 10:1 14:16 ownership 50:2 performing 26:1,2,25 32:23
28:22 40:9 Omega 1:6 3:5 50:12 permission 25:10 42:11 45:11
31:23 15:15 27:23 P permit 22:15 policy 13:25
46:11,14 paid 6:13 perspective 9:15 11:16 13:8
42:2 41:14 47:22 21:15,16,18 pertinent 3:12 18:3 19:18,25
12:19 31:8 16:11,14 17:3,4 30:22 31:16 50:3,4,10,13 possibly 12:3
opposite 49:18 34:2,25 36:7 phrase 4:14 5:4 potential 40:24
17:18 3:7 21:16 38:4 38:2 47:13 15:2,9 17:14,15 potentially 46:12
38:15 44:19 Panner's 47:16 physical 22:13 powerful 14:1
outside 22:23,24 paragraph 7:3,20 Pilpel 21:1 precisely 30:14
outsourcing 51:4 part 7:6 12:22 50:13 predecessor
overseas 26:5 49:25 50:8 31:25 36:5 40:5 prefer 17:22
33:22 40:11 places 13:3 premise 29:23
provisions 13:6 42:10 43:24 recodified 35:10 34:9 42:9 50:13
50:15 questions 19:15reconsider 19:23 35:16 44:1
published 26:18 quickly 37:21 reed 17:5 46:2
35:8 50:1 8:13 10:8,8,9 36:20 40:10 40:4 reserve 21:11
11:4 21:2 R 3:1 regard 11:17 42:1 45:23
pulled 17:16 raise 9:10,10 regardless 27:20 51:2
18:13,15 15:6 46:18 rationale 6:5,6 reject 19:23 respond 19:2
purposes 8:1 7:22 8:6,8 rejected 14:8 Respondent 1:18
31:17 22:17 49:25 50:8 Respondents
45:9 22:22,23,25 realities 49:6 46:12 39:10 42:9
Quality 3:11,19 18:10 20:1 rental 50:5 retailer 45:25
16:25 17:1,7 reason 4:17 6:15 report 24:15 retained 49:11
34:10 39:16,20 reasonable 34:17 37:18 reward 49:8,9
40:15 question 16:1 29:10 5:19 29:15 right 8:13 12:18
29:20 45:17
24:14,21 S se 19:6 sense 7:25 11:15 somebody 10:21
27:7 S 2:1 3:1 Seal 13:13 11:17 23:5 27:4 20:14
29:5 31:6 safe 42:18 second 10:19 31:21 32:12 somewhat 34:23
33:6,7,13 safety 38:22 11:3 36:9 37:21 33:24 40:21 42:12
34:19 sale 3:15 4:7,12 section 3:16 4:6 sensible 8:19 sorry 46:20
41:12,23 5:21 6:5,8 7:23 4:15,21,22,23 sensibly 33:18 sort 24:11 34:3
8:8,9,15 9:2,3,7 4:23 5:5 6:7,23 sent 41:4 sorts 36:11
45:4,5 9:22 10:15 11:5 7:4,7,21 9:17 sentence 49:24 SOTOMAYOR
12:15 15:21 13:3,6,6,25 50:8 5:12,18,25 6:11
7:16 22:18 23:13 19:16,17,18,21 series 4:5 29:21 30:3,7
8:3,5 10:9 24:11,17 26:14 20:23 21:5,6,9 Seventh 13:13 46:19,21,25
11:6,7,10 26:15,23 29:19 21:20,20,24,25 shelter 15:21 sought 32:25
16:6 33:2,8 34:7,13 22:7,16 23:2,7 show 5:1 13:10 so-called 4:5
18:12 37:6,16 41:17 23:15 24:7,12 44:20 specially 40:1
22:14 43:8,10 45:16 25:21,23 26:2,7 showing 13:12 specifically 27:2
27:14,17 45:19 47:22,23 27:1,12 28:20 shred 51:10 40:4,7 45:4
28:3,3,6 48:19 49:8,20 29:1,16,17 side 29:9 34:24 stage 51:5
31:5 32:1 50:5,23 31:20 33:15,19 36:23 stake 36:20
33:22 sales 10:19 11:4 34:11,14 35:2,3 side's 11:21 standards 14:6
39:13 saying 11:14 35:3,4,4,11,18 significance started 26:13
41:11,16 14:14 20:6 35:20 36:21 36:17 state 19:10 45:14
42:2 44:2 29:22 32:13,14 38:10 39:7,18 significant 26:2 45:15,18 46:6
49:11 43:15 39:18,21,24 33:3 48:7 46:16
says 5:8 6:1 11:5 42:14,18,19,24 significantly statements 7:5
32:13 14:18,22 15:15 44:21 48:8,8,11 similar 47:17 20:25 21:2,5
37:10,20 16:11 20:9 48:12 49:15,16 simply 30:24 States 1:1,12,21
38:3 24:22,22,22 49:17,21,25 42:18 44:17 2:10 3:14,24
47:3,7 27:22 34:12,14 50:9,16,17 51:9 4:3 5:5,9,10
35:13 37:1 51:13,14,14 single 4:17 6:17 9:24 11:1
21:8,9 SCALIA 11:13 15:18 22:20 situation 11:5 15:14,16,17
11:19,24 12:1,5 30:4 43:2 22:17 31:12 20:6 22:15,19
14:10,16,23 segment 39:12 32:22 43:18 23:23 24:9
18:1,4 20:20 selling 20:4 sky 17:16 27:3 28:11,15
47:10 science 51:9 43:24 45:24 software 36:14 33:2,9,12 34:1
42:8 supporting 1:22 textbooks 36:10 15:4,7,9 17:14 48:8 49:1,5,17
43:25 2:11 9:12 38:6 textual 29:14 22:2,9 23:12 turned 17:5
51:16 supports 17:11 42:12 49:4 27:14 28:10,14 turning 30:4
supposed 10:23 36:7 37:12,22 30:13,17,18 two 5:14 7:12,14
19:4,7 Supreme 1:1,12 47:12 51:22,23 32:8 34:15,18 16:14
44:10 sure 6:9 46:5 theories 47:20 35:15 38:13,13 two-sentence
49:16 suspect 34:8 theory 10:14 38:15 39:1,25 14:9
40:18 Sylvania 19:5 47:25 48:9 49:2 50:6
45:22 S.A 1:6 thin 17:5 50:11,19 U
47:2 thing 37:3 topic 29:20 undeniable 51:3
T things 13:5 36:2 trace 45:10 underlies 33:20
3:7 47:10 think 7:8 8:24 tracing 35:1 41:17
30:17 talking 8:7 10:21 29:13 30:11 transfer 8:11 9:3 understanding
39:2 11:24 37:9 32:21,23 34:22 9:7 27:21 48:9 10:17 29:1
teachers 5:1 37:13 38:17 transferee 27:24 13:20
tells 50:18 44:22 45:22 transfers 28:5 2:10 3:14,23
28:3,6 term 23:7 24:8 third 25:18,19 treatises 16:14 6:17 9:24 11:1
11:6 18:17 19:5 time 4:8 15:16 trip 16:12 23:23 24:9 25:9
11:15 17:10,13 18:5 44:10,16 45:4 try 23:2 26:20 32:19 33:2,9,12
34:4,6 22:21,24,24 title 4:14,19 5:3 trying 13:23 34:1,9,17,19
24:20 25:5 28:2 5:8 8:11 13:2,5 20:24 29:21 38:5,16,19,25
42:15 43:25
51:16 wanted 4:18 Y 18th 9:6 26:2,7,17,21
51:18 19 13:18 33:15 35:18,20
15:8 17:13 21:8 51:6 08-1423 1:5 3:4 1947 49:17 43:23 48:8,8,11
37:2 Washington 1:8 1960 47:2 48:21 49:1,13
14:6 21:22 45:24 10:02 1:13 3:2 51:18 602(b) 14:20
23:22 watches 39:5 106 24:21,24 1986 4:3 15:20
26:3,4,10 41:15 42:2,3,7 25:2 64 46:5
29:3 31:4 way 9:8 16:22 106(1) 23:7 2 65 46:6
32:19 27:16 35:12,19 29:16 2 15:19
33:16,20 38:24 39:18 106(3) 21:24 2010 1:9 7
34:7,7,18 46:1 28:4 31:20 202 23:2 35:11 76 11:11
35:22 weren't 13:11 35:14 44:6 21 2:7
4:15,21,23 27 35:4,4 49:16 8
49:12 Wholesale 1:3
8:9,14,14 8 1:9
3:5
11:1 13:6 3
49:17
13:2 14:18 20:7 44:21 48:12
2:14
20:13 38:12 50:17 51:20
44:4,21 36:25 43:12 49:15,21 20:3 21:6,8
worry 37:3,7 49:25 50:10 24:20 25:3
13:6,25 15:4,5 15:19,21,25
26:1 31:7 17's 44:1 12:16,17,24
38:11 X 1790 4:1 21:20 24:7,7,12
46:5 x 1:2,7 1792 9:4 12:11
