IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
STOP THE BEACH :
RENOURISHMENT, INC., :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-1151
FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF :
ENVIRONMENTAL :
PROTECTION, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, December 2, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
D. KENT SAFRIET, ESQ., Tallahassee, Fla.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
SCOTT D. MAKAR, ESQ., Solicitor General, Tallahassee,
Fla.; on behalf of the Respondents.
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amici curiae, supporting the
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
D. KENT SAFRIET, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
SCOTT D. MAKAR, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 28
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amici
curiae, supporting the Respondents 50
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
D. KENT SAFRIET, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 61
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument this morning in Case 08-1151, Stop the Beach
Renourishment v. The Florida Department of Environmental
Protection.
Mr. Safriet.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF D. KENT SAFRIET
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SAFRIET: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Today we ask this Court to expressly
recognize that a State court decision, unpredictable in
terms of relevant precedents, which redefines
century-old property rights to no longer exist, violates
the Fifth Amendment of the United States Constitution.
The Florida Supreme Court suddenly and
dramatically redefined littoral property rights,
converting oceanfront property into oceanview property
to avoid the finding of a taking. It did so in the
context of a beach restoration project which could have
been accomplished without taking any private property at
all. Given this Court's jurisprudence that a State's
legislative and executive branches cannot violate the
Fifth Amendment, we see no reason why the judicial
branch should be treated any differently.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought your basic
position in the litigation in Florida was that the
Florida legislation violated the takings protection, and
so it's kind of strange to switch your target from the
legislature, which enacted this measure, and then say,
because the judiciary upheld it, the judiciary somehow
is complicit in this violation by the legislature
implemented by the administrative offices.
MR. SAFRIET: That is correct, Your Honor.
Below, the case was litigated as one of a taking by the
legislature when it passed the Act.
When it passed the Beach and Shore
Preservation Act, it contained a provision within
section 161.141, which is a savings clause, that said to
the extent the beach restoration cannot be accomplished
without taking property rights, the requesting
authorities have to use eminent domain proceedings to
take those rights.
At the First District Court of Appeal, they
agreed with us that the littoral rights were being taken
by the Act of the legislature and that those had to be
compensated for. When we arrived at the Florida Supreme
Court, again, all of the parties were arguing those
issues, whether there was a physical taking of these
rights or a regulatory taking of these rights by the Act
and whether the savings clause would apply.
To everybody's shock, the Florida Supreme
Court said: We're going to go back to step one and
decide you don't have any littoral rights. The
legislature didn't eliminate any protected littoral
rights that you thought you once had for over a hundred
years as the relevant precedents in common law indicate.
So it was that decision of the Florida Supreme Court,
that said you have -- no longer have property, that
gives rise to the issue before this Court is, can the
Florida Supreme Court redefine those 100-year-old rights
to no longer exist?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Applied in a new
situation. It was never the kind of situation
involved here with the beach restoration project. The
-- the precedent did not involve the kind of situation
that this case presents.
MR. SAFRIET: Yes, Your Honor. There is no
precedent with respect to the Beach and Shore
Preservation Act as it has ever been applied. We do
concede that.
However, there are two fundamental
principles of Florida law that have existed for more
than a hundred years, and those are property that must
­- property that borders the mean high-water line and
must remain in contact with the mean high-water line to
possess common law littoral rights. If that connection
is not there, there are no common law littoral rights.
Common law littoral rights are constitutionally
protected and cannot be taken without due process and
just compensation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, they're -- they're
eliminated -- at least the right of contact with the
water can be eliminated by an avulsion, right?
When there's -- when there's avulsion, even
at common law and under Florida law, it -- it can happen
that some land between the property owner and -- and the
water will be owned by the State.
MR. SAFRIET: That is correct, Your Honor.
Under the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why wasn't this an
avulsion?
MR. SAFRIET: Well, because the avulsion in
this case, Your Honor, was the hurricanes that the State
cites as the reason for the beaches being washed away,
and -- and it was --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, well, well, well.
There were -- there were two avulsions. One was the
avulsion of its being washed away and the other was the
-- the rapid replacement of sand. That -- that is not a
natural, gradual phenomenon.
MR. SAFRIET: That is right, Your Honor, but
the -- there is no case law in Florida or no principle
that says avulsion can occur by artificial means. So
there is -- the beach restoration, where they placed
sand on the beach, is not avulsion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If there's no case law, it
seems to me you've lost your case.
MR. SAFRIET: No, the case law specifically
says that avulsion is a result of natural occurrences,
by the action of the wind and the water. That's what
avulsion is in Florida and has been -- you know, for at
least 50 years, I believe. It's --
JUSTICE BREYER: They have a new situation.
It's sort of like an avulsion. It's sort of like an
accretion. The only precedent of -- you keep talking
about a hundred years -- it seemed to me some dictum in
a case called Sand Key, which does say that the upland
property owner has the right to touch the water.
So in this case, the Florida Supreme Court
says the purpose of that was to make certain that the
upland property owner could go to the water. And so
here we have a case that assures he can go to the water,
and they have a new situation, which, as I think
Justice Scalia said, looks an awful lot like an
avulsion, though of course there are differences.
So it sounds like a typical common law
situation. A new situation arises. You try to apply
old precedent, and they reached the result they did.
Now, what's your response to that? Because that's the
argument the other side makes.
MR. SAFRIET: The response to that, Your
Honor, is the doctrine of avulsion -- as part of the
doctrine of avulsion is the doctrine -- or the right to
reclaim what was lost by the landowner. So when an
avulsion event occurs, the landowner that has lost
property has a right under common law to reclaim what
they lost.
JUSTICE BREYER: You didn't lose any.
It just went out the front door there. The land ended
here, and the new avulsion comes in and extends it
further. You didn't lose one inch. All you lost was
the right to touch the water. But the court here says
you in effect have that right because you can walk right
over it and get to the water.
MR. SAFRIET: What -- what was lost in this
case, Your Honor, is the right to contact the mean high-
water line, and I think there's a distinction between
the right to contact the mean high-water line and the
water's edge. The Florida Supreme Court didn't address
the former issue, contact with the mean high-water line.
That's --
JUSTICE BREYER: Don't you have a right to
walk across and put your boat in the water and swim, and
nobody can stop you?
MR. SAFRIET: Right. Across the foreshore,
yes, Your Honor. And also, as part of the common law
rights of access --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now you have that right.
They didn't take that away from you. The statute gives
it to you.
MR. SAFRIET: That's correct. We have that
right --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If somebody wanted
to put up a hot dog stand on this new land, would you
have the right to tell them they can't?
MR. SAFRIET: Absolutely not, Your Honor,
and that's the point I was getting to.
JUSTICE BREYER: You say "absolutely not."
I thought there was a provision in this law that said
they cannot put anything on that strip which destroys
your right of enjoyment of the upland right. Now, if
they put a noisy hot dog stand that keeps you up at
night, doesn't that violate the statute?
MR. SAFRIET: I think the statute provides
no permanent structures can be constructed on that new
property.
JUSTICE BREYER: It doesn't say anything
about your right to peaceful enjoyment?
MR. SAFRIET: It certainly does.
JUSTICE BREYER: And what does it say?
MR. SAFRIET: It says that the -- you know,
your regular common law uses that cannot be --
JUSTICE BREYER: So what does the statute
say about your right to have peaceful enjoyment of your
land?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you can have quiet
hot dog stands during the daytime.
(Laughter.)
MR. SAFRIET: Yes. Yes. It's says no uses
of that property can be injurious to the common law --
JUSTICE BREYER: Injurious, okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But do you have any
--
MR. SAFRIET: Of course, now --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you have any
reason to suppose that that's a redefinition of -- of
property that the legislature isn't free to change
tomorrow?
MR. SAFRIET: Yes, the legislature can
change this definition of property. They can define
property in the State of Florida as to whatever they
want it to be, but if they do so and take property, they
must pay for it under the just compensation clause.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, before this
legislation, in the seaward side of the land that
belonged to the State, from the mean high-water mark, a
hot dog stand could have sat in the water, correct?
MR. SAFRIET: If somebody wanted to put one
in the water, yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And someone could have
stood there, a boat could have docked there, assuming
that it -- it was a shallow boat.
You had no control over anyone placing
anything on the seaside submerged lands that belonged to
the State, outside of whatever regulations the State
decided it wanted to impose?
MR. SAFRIET: We had no exclusive right to
exclude them from that property. But they could not
unnecessarily interfere with our right to view or our --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The ECL that has been
created by this legislation -- you gave up any challenge
to it -- it was established at that mean water mark,
wasn't it?
MR. SAFRIET: Yes. The ECL in this case, as
the case was litigated, was assumed to be located
directly on top of the mean high-water line. We did not
abandon a challenge to the ECL. What we abandoned was
any challenge as to where the ECL was placed in relation
to --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, right now, we just
have to assume that it was -- that it -- it has
established the line at a point where the State owns all
the land seaward of the ECL, correct?
MR. SAFRIET: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So after this project
finishes, that hot water -- that hot dog vendor will be
on stateside land, correct?
MR. SAFRIET: That is correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No different than what
exists today, before the legislation, which is if the
hot dog vendor wanted to sit in a foot of water, it
could have?
MR. SAFRIET: It certainly could sit in a
foot of water.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So none of
your actual use rights, pleasure rights, or anything
else has been changed. What you're arguing is that --
and what
the Florida State Supreme Court described as the
contingent future possibility that the high-water mark
might change and you could push that hot dog vendor back
another foot or two.
MR. SAFRIET: That is correct, Your Honor.
Anybody allowed --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, such -- such
boats floating in -- in the water below the mean high
water mark are available with respect to all littoral
properties. Isn't that right?
MR. SAFRIET: That is right, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But what can't happen with
other littoral property is that folks can't come in and
lay down beach blankets and occupy that sand, right, so
that you have open sand in front of -- in front of your
house?
MR. SAFRIET: That is correct, Your Honor.
The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And people pay a lot more
money for beach -- beachfront homes, for that reason,
don't they?
MR. SAFRIET: Absolutely, Your Honor. The
value of beachfront property is a premium.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's quite different
from having a house behind the beach at Coney Island,
isn't it?
MR. SAFRIET: Absolutely, Your Honor. And
in this case --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, can you -- can you
explain something that's unclear to me from the briefs
and the records? That is, there -- this -- what is
referred to as "the foreshore," was that wet all the
time? I thought the suggestion was that that was in
effect beach, public beach, that people could walk on,
not swim in.
MR. SAFRIET: The foreshore, Your Honor, is
typically the land area between the mean high-water line
and the low high-water line, and depending on the tide
cycles of the day, some of that foreshore is dry, and
then at other times --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the -- and the public
-- what -- what was the situation here? Was there a
strip of dry land that the public has been using?
MR. SAFRIET: There's -- the foreshore, Your
Honor, which is periodically dry on any given day and
periodically wet -- the public can use that, and they
have always been able to use that. That is State-owned
land, and they can use that to traverse up and down the
beach. But, again, because it's wet every day, you
don't have hot dog vendors putting hot dog stands in the
water. You don't have people laying their blankets in
the water to enjoy that beach.
And what we're talking about here is the
exclusive right to use the dry sand area that stays dry
all of the time in our case, which in our case was a
200-foot stretch of beach before this project began, and
we had 200 feet of beach, and we had the right to
exclude commercial vendors or anybody else from that
property.
Now what we have after that, according to
this project, is another 80 feet to 100 feet of dry sand
beach owned by the State where the landowners have no
ability to exclude commercial vendors or any other
obnoxious uses of that property.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Who owns that land? I
mean, when it was submerged it belonged to the State.
And is it your position that the owners in your
organization, that they have title to that land that was
once owned by the State?
MR. SAFRIET: Absolutely not, Your Honor.
It's our position that the State, as a matter of public
use under the Takings Clause, can condemn that property
and make a public beach in front of a private one. They
absolutely can do that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, I mean -- I mean,
without condemning it, you say the title is held by the
private owners even though the title was held by the
State when the land was submerged.
MR. SAFRIET: No, Your Honor, I'm not saying
that the landowners own that new 80-foot stretch of
beach now, as it currently exists. What we argue is we
own to the erosion control line, which is the property
boundary that the State created in this case. And the
State, by operation of the Act, claims title to the new
80-foot strip of beach. And what we're trying to obtain
here is the State to go through eminent domain
proceedings to pay us compensation for the loss of
littoral rights that they're taking by creating this
public strip of beach.
Now, the State may at the end of the day
say, well, we're not going to claim title to that; we're
going to reinstate your boundary as the mean high-water
line -- that would be 80 feet further out -- and no
compensation, in that case, would be due. But --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It would be -- what
would your position be, assuming you still have title,
you still have the right of littoral title, contact with
the water? Would you concede that the State has
different regulatory interests with respect to that new
strip of land versus the old strip of land?
It's still your property. The State can
regulate your property. Presumably, they regulate your
beach property now. Would their different -- would
their authority to regulate be greater with respect to
the new area?
MR. SAFRIET: As the owner of the property,
Your Honor? If the State owned that property?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. Your -- you
would still have the title to the property.
MR. SAFRIET: Okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's still your
property. You know, the State regulates property all
the time, in zoning -- would their authority be broader
with respect to that new land than with respect to the
old?
MR. SAFRIET: No, Your Honor, I don't think
so. The State already has broad authority to regulate
property already, and then would -- I wouldn't see any
need for them to have any broader authority for that new
strip of beach if our members owned it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sometimes -- and I
don't actually know what the law is on this. Sometimes
the State builds, you know, sidewalks in front of
people. Maybe they do it on their own land, and they
say: We're putting this easement, and people can walk
across it. Would this be in the same category of public
project? They say, well, it's your land because you
have a right to the mean high-water land, but we built
it so we have greater rights with respect to regulation
than we might have with respect to the natural beach.
MR. SAFRIET: No, Your Honor, I don't think
they would have any greater rights to that. I mean, if
-- if the landowners are the fee-simple title owner,
then the State has its basic police powers to regulate
as it would any other land, absent some type of easement
or reservation of our agreement with the landowners that
give them greater rights and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The State gave you some
quid pro quo for this, which is to say this new sand is
projected to last 6 years, has to be replaced regularly,
because your -- your property is being eroded, which is
the reason the State went into this. And what the State
has given you in exchange is that if and when there is
further erosion, you will continue to own up to whatever
this new line is called.
MR. SAFRIET: ECL.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The ECL. You will continue
to -- to own up to there, despite the fact that under
common law when there's more erosion, your -- your line
would recede to the new mean high-water mark. So, you
know, who -- who knows? Maybe that's sufficient
compensation. You know, if you go in and ask for
compensation, the State might say, you know, we've given
them -- given them this property right in exchange, and
the difference between that and what they have now is
two dollars.
MR. SAFRIET: That -- that may well be the
case, Your Honor, but, again, they haven't provided us
the opportunity to go to that trial, that jury trial, to
argue that these -- the value of this new 75-foot
stretch of beach on top of the 200-foot stretch of beach
provides value above and beyond the taking of the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me ask you this
question on Florida valuation. Assume you prevail,
there's a cause of action for a taking. You have a
beachfront area, beachfront home, in which there's a
hurricane and there's a loss of the beach and a sudden
drop, so that it's now a 60-foot -- a 60-foot drop. The
State comes in and says the only way we can fix this
is to extend the beach and make it a larger beach on
what was formerly our submerged land. And it does that
that. Under -- and it -- and it has the same rule.
Under your view, is the State required to
pay you for the loss of your right of contact to the
beach, your littoral right, because there's let's say
another 100 foot of new beach? Are they entitled to
offset that against the enhanced value to your property
by reason of the fact that they've saved it from further
erosion and have given you a beach where there was none
before?
MR. SAFRIET: Yes, Your Honor, they are able
to offset that, and the -- the statute provides for that
offsetting such that in an eminent domain proceedings
whatever value the landowners lost as a result of their
-- losing their contact with the mean high-water line,
that any benefit provided by the additional sand would
be offset --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So the enhancement from
the post-project benefit is a credit to the State in the
takings action?
MR. SAFRIET: That -- that is according to
the statute that was passed, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did any of these beachfront
owners think this was a good deal, that the State has
prevented further erosion of their land and, you know,
the price they pay for that is that they have this
60-foot stretch that -- that the public can use, and
that may wash away in 6 years anyway, and if they're
lucky the State won't have enough money to put it back?
Or --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did anybody -- I'm not sure
it's a bad deal. And they're guaranteed against --
against further loss of property because they will
continue to own up to that -- to that new line, even
if it's all covered by water.
MR. SAFRIET: No, Your Honor. Our --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Nobody -- nobody thought it
was a good deal? Everybody thought that they had been
done out of something?
MR. SAFRIET: With respect to the
Petitioner's members, they thought it was a bad deal,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Petitioner's members, but
other people along -- along the same coast? I mean, if
I had a place and it's being -- it's being eroded by
hurricanes constantly, you know, I -- I'm not sure
whether I wouldn't -- wouldn't want to have the sand
replaced, even at the -- at the cost of having a 60-foot
stretch that the State owns.
MR. SAFRIET: I think that's the fundamental
misunderstanding in this case. The beach was not
eroding. It was not lapping under these houses. There
was 200 feet of dry beach, and the beach is accreting,
meaning it grows gradually, day by day or week by week.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what happened? There
were a succession of hurricanes, I thought.
MR. SAFRIET: With the exception of
hurricanes. But hurricanes are, again, avulsive events
that don't change the property boundary line. We talked
about the right to reclaim earlier. So this is an a
accreting beach, 200-foot accreting beach. These
property owners did not view that they were gaining
anything.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It may not change the
property line, but all of your property might be under
water --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- right? That wouldn't be
very good.
MR. SAFRIET: That's a risk that they --
Petitioner's members -- were willing to take. They
bought oceanfront property.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, your members were,
but I was asking whether some other people might not
have thought it was a pretty good deal.
MR. SAFRIET: Sure. Sure, Your Honor, there
are a lot of properties, probably even in this stretch,
where water is lapping under the houses, and the -- and
the landowners will want sand, and they'll be willing to
waive any types of property rights claims or
compensation claims to get that sand. But that's not
what happened --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could the State --
MR. SAFRIET: -- in this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could the State sell
this new land to somebody else?
MR. SAFRIET: Yes. There's no reason they
couldn't, because they own the fee-simple title to it,
as well as they could send the sovereign submerged lands
in front of the property.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it would be subject to
the easement that the State acknowledges you have, which
is the easement of access?
MR. SAFRIET: I'm not sure it would be, Your
Honor. The statute provides that right of access --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but the -- the --
MR. SAFRIET: -- so basically it's not an
easement per se that inheres in our title.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no. As I understand
the supreme court's opinions, you have several special
and exclusive -- or exclusive -- or exclusive, common
law littoral rights: right to have access, right to
reasonable use of the water, right to accretion and
reliction, right to the unobstructed view. They can't
sell that.
MR. SAFRIET: Yes, but we don't have common
law rights anymore, Your Honor, because we don't --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no.
MR. SAFRIET: -- contact the mean high-water
line.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The -- the hypothetical is
the State says that the property owner, the upland
owner, has these rights. The Chief Justice asked you,
could this property be sold? I think the answer would
be yes, but it would be subject to the continuance of
that easement in the dominant estate. That has to be
the answer under the supreme court's opinion. Now, you
may not agree with that.
MR. SAFRIET: Under the supreme court's
opinion, yes, because it purports to reserve common law
rights across this new stretch of State-owned beach.
It's our contention that all common law rights have been
lost when we lose connection to the mean high-water
line.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. That gets to
the question, if we agree with you that there is such a
thing as a judicial takings, what is the standard by
which we decide when the Federal courts can and must
intervene to disagree with the -- with the State law and
to characterize it as a taking when the State has said
that it is not? Would we just find all sorts of
adjectives -- it's sudden, unexpected, unfounded -- we
just have a string of adjectives, sort of like an
adequate independent State ground rule or something?
MR. SAFRIET: Yes, Your Honor, that would be
the test that we would suggest, as Justice Stewart noted
in his concurring opinion in Hughes. And the test we
would propose is that a judicial taking occurs when a
State court effects a sudden and dramatic change in
State law, unpredictable in terms of relevant
precedents, that have no fair or substantial support in
well-established background principles of State law.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Okay, I'm familiar with
that opinion. Now, in this case, number one, it seems
to me that in order to do that, we have to become real
experts in Florida law.
Number two, once we do that it seems to me
that this opinion really addresses something that's --
that's new, and it's -- it's grounded in common law
doctrines. It's a close case. It might have gone
either way. Let's assume that. Does there have to be
some finding that the State decision is clearly
unreasonable? I mean, if it's a close case, does the
State win under your test?
MR. SAFRIET: Your Honor, I think the test
- again, the fair and substantial support -- provides
adequate deference to the State court. And in
objectively reviewing the precedents, this Court doesn't
have to become an expert in State law. It merely has to
review those precedents to make sure that the Florida
Supreme Court in fact relied on background principles of
law rather than creating nonexistent rules of State
substantive law --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it seems to me that,
reading the opinion, I -- I can get there. There was
some talk about the Belvedere case as helping you. I
thought it did not at all. That was a very odd case
where the easement is wholly separated from the
dominant. It's the reverse. They take the main
property and leave the easement, rather than vice versa.
So I just thought that was irrelevant.
MR. SAFRIET: Yes, the case law, Your Honor,
and the incremental changes that we are dealing with
here that would be part of your test is the government
or the State can gradually change these property rights
or property laws so long as they leave the owner with
the rights. And in this case what the Florida Supreme
Court has done is said: We're not just gradually
changing them and leaving you with these common law
littoral --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The State can do an
accretion --
MR. SAFRIET: -- we're taking them.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- but not an avulsion?
MR. SAFRIET: Right. We're taking them.
What the Petitioner's members possessed, the State now
possesses.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought Martin was -- the
Martin case was -- was pretty close, the lake that --
that the State lowered.
MR. SAFRIET: Yes, the Martin v. Busch case.
That --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. SAFRIET: That case, ironically, has --
has been relied upon by the State at the Florida Supreme
Court level.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did the -- did the Florida
Supreme Court cite it?
MR. SAFRIET: Absolutely not, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that weird? Why
didn't they cite it?
MR. SAFRIET: It's not weird, because in
1987 in the Sand Key case, the Florida Supreme Court
said that the proposition that the State has cited that
case for was not the issue there in that case. It said
that case dealt with a property boundary dispute. It
didn't deal even deal with the doctrine of avulsion or
reliction or accretion.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think that's true?
MR. SAFRIET: I'm sorry, Your Honor?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I know they said that. Do
you think that's true? When I read it, it seemed to me
to deal with reliction precisely.
MR. SAFRIET: I do think that's true,
because the majority in Sand Key said that it dealt with
them.
(Laughter.)
MR. SAFRIET: If there are no further
questions, I'd like to reserve my time for rebuttal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: A good lawyerly response.
MR. SAFRIET: Thank you.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you. Thank
you, Mr. Safriet.
Mr. Makar.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT D. MAKAR
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. MAKAR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
the Court:
Let me go ahead and address some issues that
have come up about Florida law. Number one, this idea
of artificial avulsion that was discussed earlier, the
Bryant v. Peppe case, which cites the Martin -- that was
discussed in the Martin case, talks about when the State
comes in on its own property and either lowers the water
or, in this case, puts sand on the -- on the State side
of the property line, that that's an artificial
avulsion, the State retains title to its State lands,
the upland owner, the private property owner retains
ownership of their land.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose it depends
on -- or maybe not -- how quickly it all happens. I
mean, if the State project is such that they add a foot
a year, is that an avulsion or accretion?
MR. MAKAR: Well, it would be an avulsion.
It would still be the State adding sand to its side of
the line.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, is your view
whenever the State does it, it's an avulsion?
MR. MAKAR: If it's on -- if it's on its
property, that's absolutely the case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is that? I thought
avulsion by definition is a sudden change.
MR. MAKAR: No, no. Under, Florida Law the
Bryant v. Peppe case, which was an avulsion case that
arose out of a hurricane, where there was land that
was previously submerged, it came up, it was over State
property, the private owners wanted to get the -- get
it, and they asserted that it was theirs in accretion,
and the court said no, and it cited to Martin. There's
no right to having contact with the water.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- you're -- we're
wandering off the point. Why wasn't it an avulsion? It
was an avulsion in that case, wasn't it, because it was
sudden?
MR. MAKAR: But it was done by the State.
I'm sorry, maybe I'm confusing cases.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is -- is --
MR. MAKAR: Martin --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You have a case for the
proposition that an -- what would otherwise be an
avulsion is an accretion if it's done by the State?
MR. MAKAR: Oh, no, no, no.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or vice versa. What would
otherwise be an accretion is an avulsion if done by the
State?
MR. MAKAR: No, no, no. An -- an accretion
would have to be a sudden, imperceptible change in the
shore line.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. MAKAR: When the State adds to its side
of the line, adds sand in this case, that's not a
gradual, imperceptible --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. I know. My
-- my questions was what if it is?
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if it is?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't recall how
quickly things happened here.
MR. MAKAR: Oh, well, sure. No, it's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if it's -- if
it's gradual, even though the State is doing it, it can
be an accretion, right?
MR. MAKAR: Well, if it's gradual and
perceptible --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. MAKAR: -- the answer would be yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a foot a year.
It's a foot a year.
MR. MAKAR: It would be yes. And if the
State came in and took that property, yes. The 100
years --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, on these
facts --
MR. MAKAR: On these facts --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: On these facts, if
the State's project added sand at a foot a year, the
landowner would win?
MR. MAKAR: I would disagree with that,
because what -- that is not a gradual imperceptible
change. It's a -- water.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A foot -- are we
dickering over the distance?
MR. MAKAR: We are, I think, because in this
case what happened ­-
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then, wherever
you want to say it's an accretion -- what -- it's an
inch, 6 inches --
MR. MAKAR: Well, that's -- but that's not
the way it is under -- under Florida law, if the State
comes in on its own property and adds to it, as it did
in Martin, where it lowered the -- the water or in this
case where they added the sand, it -- the State retains
the right to it. The upland owner doesn't get it. It's
--
JUSTICE ALITO: And why isn't it a
fundamental --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you're --
JUSTICE ALITO: Why isn't it a fundamental
change in Florida property law to extend these concepts
of accretion and avulsion to things that are done by the
State? If someone owns beachfront property, they
accept -- they -- they understand the risk that a
hurricane may cause avulsion, a hurricane may knock down
their house. Does that mean the State could come in and
knock down the house and say this is an artificial
avulsion?
MR. MAKAR: No, absolutely --
(Laughter.)
MR. MAKAR: No, absolutely not. I mean,
what the State did here is it -- 40 years ago, was to --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what's the difference?
You're taking a concept that has to do with a risk that
you bear because of the -- the vagaries of -- of the
weather and storms, and you're applying it to something
that's done by the State.
MR. MAKAR: Well, maybe we're on Mars and
Venus here because we're talking about a label. We're
talking about the State's --
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, talking about a label,
and putting the avulsion label and the accretion label
on something that the State does, doesn't -- doesn't
eliminate the fact that there's been a fundamental
change. You have taken a doctrine that applies to
things that occur as a result of nature and you've
applied it to things that are produced by the State.
MR. MAKAR: Well, there's no question under
Florida law that the State has the right on its
sovereignty lands to control those lands and use those for
the public trust. And what the Florida legislature did
40 years ago -- keeping in mind this has been on the
books 40 years, 200 miles of beaches have been restored
over those years, and no one has complained that this is
a taking of property. That -- it's a reasoned response
for the Florida Supreme Court to come in and say, okay,
they're challenging the Act. They say it denies
them two things: the right to future accretion and the
right to have contact with the water.
Martin v. Busch and Bryant v. Peppe say,
look, if -- you don't have a right of contact with the
water, if you have avulsion or if you have it in -- in
Martin, it was a State drainage project.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If I can -- we're
arguing about the application of a doctrine to this
case. I'd like to step back if I can and talk about
the doctrine through a hypothetical, if that's all
right.
MR. MAKAR: Sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The -- the -- let's
say the legislature passes an act saying the boundary of
beachfront property is now where the sand starts, and
not the mean high-water mark but the mean high-sand
mark. All right? And -- and then -- so that's sued.
You -- you sue under that, and the court says: Yes, of
course, that's a taking; our precedents have always said
it's the mean high-water line and nothing else.
Florida has judicial elections. Say,
somebody runs for election for the Florida Supreme Court
and says: I'm going to change that law. I'm going to
say that it is not a taking. I think people should be
able to walk right up to the land.
And that person is elected, and the law is
changed. Now, is -- is that a judicial taking?
MR. MAKAR: I think under the scenario
you're posing that's a possibility. That's where the ­-
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it a possibility
or is it a clear case?
MR. MAKAR: Well, I think it would -- if
it -- if it's -- it sounds like this is the Cannon Beach
situation, where the court judicially said, okay, you
don't own to the mean high-water line; now you own up --
only up to the vegetation line. Or something along
those lines where it was an ouster. Here there's no
ouster of property rights.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. I know.
You're changing --
MR. MAKAR: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand you
have a different view about here. But under my
hypothetical, would you agree that the action of the
Florida Supreme Court is a taking?
MR. MAKAR: Yes, I would -- I would
countenance that -- that here we have a far different
situation, which we have an act of the legislature that
draws this line, and that the two attributes that they
are claiming have no basis whatsoever in background
principles of Florida law. There is no case they can
point to, to say that we have a right of contact --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what they say is the
following -- this is what they say, I think: They point
to a case called Sand Key, and in Sand Key it says
littoral property rights include the following vested
rights: One, the right of access to the water,
including the right to have the property's contact with
the water remain intact. That's what the court said.
And in the court's opinion what it says
about that is it says, in this case, the Act expressly
protects the right of access to the water, which is the
sole justification for the subsidiary right of contact.
in Sand Key, and they're asking why was it there in Sand
Key, and that's what they come up with.
Now, after this sentence I just read you,
there is no citation. So I want you to add anything you
would like to say why this is, that sentence I read you,
justifiable under Florida law.
MR. MAKAR: Well, you're talking about the
legislation.
JUSTICE BREYER: No --
MR. MAKAR: I'm talking about the Sand Key
--
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm giving you what I took
was -- I don't want to characterize the answer. I might
have found it sufficient, others might not have. I
don't know. I'm saying they point to Sand Key. I've
read you what I thought was the answer.
MR. MAKAR: Oh, sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: Tell me if I'm right, and
if I am right, that that is meant to be the answer,
justify it, if you can.
MR. MAKAR: Sure. What they're citing to is
some dicta in Sand Key that had nothing to do with the
holding of that case, and if you try to go back and look
at the citations to the cases that Sand Key cites for
that proposition of contact with the water, none of them
have to do with contact with water.
Instead, the most important point is to look
at Martin v. Busch, which was a case where the State
lowered the water in a lake, the upland owners at -- the
property line was determined not to have moved, they
didn't have any contact with the water any longer, and
the submerged sovereignty lands became the State's
property. There's no right of contact there. It's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sand Key's statement
strikes one as -- as correct simply because I think
that's -- that's the view of the common law. I -- I
don't think that's unique or distinctive to Florida. I
think it would be very strange to have a principle that
all the -- all the littoral owner gets is a right to
access the water and not the right to be on the water,
to have his property on the water.
I think -- I think in every State,
beachfront owners would be astounded to learn that
that's the case.
So, I -- you know, I thought that Sand Key
was just expressing what -- what was the common law.
And the notion that -- that the only purpose of the
contact with the water is so that you can have access,
that is -- is that not silly?
MR. MAKAR: No. Well, two points here I
would like to make. Number one, let's assume there was
an avulsive event that added sand on the State's
property along the beach line, so now we have the
property line not changing, it's exactly where it was
before, but now we have, say, 75 feet of sand, new sand
seaward, over the State's property. That's the State's
property --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's not the
question. I mean, you just said that, let's assume the
-- assuming the property line doesn't change. The other
side is saying the property line is the mean high-water
line, and so if you -- whoever adds sand, the State,
mother nature, you dumping it -- I guess you can't do
that, but whoever adds it, the property line is the mean
high-water line.
MR. MAKAR: But -- but -- well -- but under
this avulsive event where there is sand added seaward,
the contact by the upland owner with the water no longer
exists, and that's been on the books in Florida for --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but that's
because you think the property line is the ECL rather
than the MHWL.
MR. MAKAR: I'm sorry, Mr. Chief Justice.
What I'm talking about is put the Act aside and just say
at common law in Florida. If the sand is added through
avulsive events, the upland owner has no contact with
the water any longer. They certainly have access. And
the Florida Act is so solicitous of protecting the
property rights of riparian ownership. You go through
the statute, and you see they preserve common law
littoral -- littoral rights. They have a section --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would that person still be
considered a littoral owner?
MR. MAKAR: That was my second point.
JUSTICE SCALIA: After there has been the
avulsive event that separates him from the ocean by 60
feet of State-owned land, would he still be a -- a
riparian owner? I thought --
MR. MAKAR: Absolutely, absolutely. And
that's a major misnomer in this case, is that the upland
owner here, even after the beach restoration project,
has riparian littoral property. That's what the Florida
Supreme Court has held, that's what the Florida
legislation says. There's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it's not
-- it's not the same as the property right he held
before, right?
MR. MAKAR: I -- I would disagree with that,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So he can exclude
people from the additional 60 feet?
MR. MAKAR: But it's not his -- it's not
their property. It's the State's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But, that's what
the case is about.
MR. MAKAR: Well, I -- I agree that's what
they have tried to make it about. What they've said is
the State now has this swath of sand. It's a barrier to
protect against erosion. It's no wider than this
courtroom.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose that --
suppose that a city decided that it wanted to attract
more students who are going to the beach in Florida for
spring break, and so therefore it decided it was going
to create a huge beach in front of -- of privately owned
homes. Under the decision of the Florida Supreme Court,
I don't see anything that would stop the city from doing
that. So you could have -- you could have televised
spring break beach parties in front of -- of somebody's
house. Now, in -- as a practical matter, doesn't that
have a real effect on the value of the property?
MR. MAKAR: Well, Justice Alito, in
response, what I'd say here is keep in mind this is the
Beach and Shore Preservation Act. It isn't designed to
create some recreational playground for spring breakers.
It's designed to --
JUSTICE ALITO: No, I understand that, but
if the -- but the Florida Supreme Court said that there
isn't any right -- if there is a manmade extension of
the beach, there is no right to exclude people from it;
it's -- the beach is owned by the State. So all of that
could take place, couldn't it?
MR. MAKAR: Well, not under the Act, because
-- here's why: Under the Act, what has to be done is a
survey. And you'd have the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He's not talking about the
Act. He's just talking about your theory of the case.
Your theory of what the rights of beachfront owners
consist of would permit this to happen, if not under
this Act, under some other act, right?
MR. MAKAR: Well, if there was -- if there
were some other act where the legislature passes a
law --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. Well, it's the
Spring Break Act of 2010, okay?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: They could do that,
couldn't they?
MR. MAKAR: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Under your theory of the
case?
MR. MAKAR: Well, they -- they would, but
the point being is that they would have to preserve the
littoral rights of --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why do we have to say
that? I mean, they're writing a -- a -- an opinion here
against a background of an act, and as I read that
opinion -- you can add something to this if you want --
I make a list of what they say in effect provides, not
perfectly, but provides, roughly, the same kind of
protection that the Sand Key statement provided.
One, you can go to the water; two, you have
a right of ingress and egress, if that's any different
from the first. I'm not positive. Three, you have a
right under the Act that nobody can put anything on that
strip which is injurious to the upland owner. All
right?
So those are at least three things, and I
think there's a fourth. Yes, the fourth is that nobody
can build anything there that is harmful, except if it's
to do with the environment; that's not harmful, that's
helpful to the beach owner. It's supposed to be
helpful. And, five, you get your beach guaranteed.
So all of those things are things you get
under this Act in an intermediate case where it's a
little like an avulsion and a little not like an
avulsion. Now, do I add anything to my list? And do
you have to go beyond that?
MR. MAKAR: No, well, there's -- there's
even more, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, that's what I wanted
to know. What more?
MR. MAKAR: What the legislature in Florida
did as well is to say that when they do the survey, as
you see in the document attached in the joint appendix,
they have to set out what the width of the berm will be,
the sacrificial sand that's there to erode away over
time. They put the width in there. And in this
particular instance, it's about 75 feet. And it's going
to erode away. That cannot be increased without the
consent of the owners.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So why doesn't --
why don't you take your list and Justice Breyer's list
and submit that in the just compensation hearing? When
the landowner comes in and says, look, you have taken my
property and it is worth $100,000, and you come in and
say oh, no, no; it's not worth $100,000; look at all
these things we saved and gave you. It's only -- what
you have lost is only worth $20,000. And a court will
review that and say yes, no, whatever, and that's what
you get.
MR. MAKAR: Well, because, Mr. Chief
Justice, under background principles of Florida law,
they have no right to contact with the water, and this
accretion right is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Again, that is what
the whole case is about, whether they have a right to
contact the water or not. It seems to me if your only
answer to every question is they don't have the right,
you're just completely begging the question.
MR. MAKAR: But under -- with due respect,
under Florida law, they don't. And the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, isn't the question
here that the reason they don't under Florida law is in
a situation where the law isn't clear, we draw the
Florida law this way rather than that way, and that is a
reasonable common law decision because of the six points
that we've listed on the list?
MR. MAKAR: Absolutely. Given this --
JUSTICE BREYER: So it's not that it's a
taking --
MR. MAKAR: Absolutely.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and you're compensating;
it is a reason why this is a -- I am somewhat putting
words in your mouth, but I mean --
(Laughter.)
MR. MAKAR: Well, certainly our position is
that there's no --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You won't disagree with
that.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you know the answer to
the question that was asked of your colleague? That is,
here we have an organization representing several
landowners. Is there any indication about how these
beachfront owners in these communities -- what their
view is, that they are benefited, that they are harmed?
Is there any indication of that?
MR. MAKAR: Other than these Petitioners,
Justice Ginsburg, no one has complained about this and
said that -- and brought an action or -- or otherwise.
This is a very beneficial program. It's basically a
beachfront property protection act, so it's sort of
anomalous that anyone would complain.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the problem with the
argument that I'm having is that in the last colloquy
with Justice Breyer, we heard how reasonable this act
was. That's one thing. But you have taken the position
that it's your property and you can do with it what you
want anyway. Now, maybe in this case it won't make a
difference, because it's so reasonable, it's -- there's
not a taking. But what about -- what do you call those
-- the spring fling, the spring break --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- hypothetical, or a
permanent oceanography museum?
MR. MAKAR: Sure, Justice Kennedy. We have
cases in Florida, for example, where a bridge was built
entirely across the view of the -- of the river, and the
upland owner in that situation had a total impairment of
their right to view, and that's compensable. So -- so
-- but here what we have --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And this statute
provides --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This very statute says if
-- if what happens is a taking, then there's
compensation.
MR. MAKAR: Right. That said --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you think there's a
taking as a matter of Georgia -- pardon me, of Florida
law if enjoyment of the view and access is substantially
impaired? I mean, is that the test?
MR. MAKAR: That's the law in Florida,
Justice Kennedy, is that if there's a substantial
impairment. There's cases that say that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So on behalf of the
State, you concede if any of this list -- these -- the
list of good things that the land owner gets, if the
legislature next year takes them away, that would be a
taking?
MR. MAKAR: Sure, if they took away the --
the swath of littoral rights or a substantial portion,
that would be highly problematic and likely be a taking.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you think that either
all of the time or some of the time a public beach
would -- that intervenes between the upland and the
water would be a substantial impairment of the upland
owner's rights?
MR. MAKAR: No, no, no. The -- the State
owns the beach, and let me make this analogy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That -- that's exactly my
point. You say that the State owns the beach, and it's
okay because there's a protection against unreasonable
use. And I'm asking whether or not a State beach with,
what do you call them, port-a-johns and hot dog stands
and so forth, isn't a substantial impairment of the
upland owner's use? And you say, well, the State owns
it --
MR. MAKAR: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that takes away from
your earlier argument that we don't need to worry
because there can be no interference with substantial
enjoyment. And it seems to me that Justice Alito's
question has still not been answered in your argument.
MR. MAKAR: Well, I believe the answer is
that this is a facial challenge. There could be an
as-applied challenge. Keep in mind, the association
here owns no property.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I want you to talk to me
about what the constitutional law ought to be in this
case as a general matter. We'll figure out facial and
-- and as-applied later. I still see that your argument
leaves open this question in my mind raised by the
concerns that Justice Alito has expressed.
MR. MAKAR: Well -- and the Florida Supreme
Court was very careful in narrowing its decision and
saying that the actual property owners may pursue, if
they feel -- beyond this opinion, they may pursue an
as-applied claim, where they -- this has no takings
record before this Court whatsoever, and that would have
to be developed, keeping in mind that much ­-
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But when they do, they're
going to be met by you when you're in the trial court
and you say the State owns the property.
MR. MAKAR: Well, just because the State
owns the property doesn't mean there cannot be an
impairment of the -- of the right. This is an analogy
to say this was a road where -- if I might --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can complete
your thought.
MR. MAKAR: Sure. That if this were a road
and the traffic -- there's a country road and there's
very little traffic, and over the years the traffic
built up, that somehow the owner of the property along
that road would have a cause of action. It's just not
the case.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICI CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
From the outset, this case has been a
challenge to the actions of the Florida legislature and
its executive branch in enacting and implementing the
Beach Restoration Act.
That is a conventional takings claim and
that is the way I think it is most useful for this Court
to approach it. Rather than seizing on particular
statements in the opinion of the Florida Supreme Court
and regarding the Florida Supreme Court's judicial act
as itself a taking, it's best to focus on the Act
itself.
And with respect to the Act itself, what --
what has happened here is the State has exercised, not
just sovereign regulatory rights; it has exercised
critical sovereign proprietary rights.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Kneedler, that's
a clever ploy. We're talking about judicial takings and
you say, don't look at what the court did; look at what
the legislature did. That changes the whole ball game.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, but -- but, in
fairness, first of all, that's how this case originated,
was a challenge --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There's no choice.
If their argument is what the court did constituted the
taking, they couldn't have raised that earlier --
MR. KNEEDLER: No. My --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- and said, oh, we
think we know that the court is going to change things.
MR. KNEEDLER: My -- my point isn't -- isn't
so much about whether it could have been raised earlier.
It is that what -- what is -- what is being objected to
here is a -- is a -- this was not a judicial
declaration, for example, that somebody who has littoral
property can walk up to the edge of the water and can't
touch it. There was no abstract declaration on littoral
rights.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Judicial -- judicial
taking if that were the case?
MR. KNEEDLER: That -- that would be more
like Hughes. I'm not sure that I would analyze it as a
judicial taking. I think another way --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, no --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- to come at this --
and this may even be suggested in -- in Justice Scalia's
dissent in the Cannon Beach case -- is that the -- the
usual principle that where State law is interposed in a
way that would -- would defeat a Federal constitutional
right, a court can look to see whether there is a fair
and substantial basis for it.
That's not really a -- there's no need to
fashion a new judicial taking doctrine when you have --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why not? Because --
because what they said is: We have a right to touch the
water, and you've taken it. That's what they said this
Act does.
MR. KNEEDLER: Right, and --
JUSTICE BREYER: The court said: You've
never had that right. And it's just like a person who
owns 40 acres in the middle of Vermont, and the State
wants to build a nuclear power plant, and they say, you
have to pay us. No, says the State. And the court of
the State upholds it on the ground there is an implicit
easement under Blackstone to take land for power plants
without paying for it; it's called the power plant
easement. Okay?
Now, in such a case, it would be the
judicial taking because their ground is not -- whatever
you normally have, but their ground is you never had
that property right in the first place.
Now, how -- if that ever were to happen --
and that probably, perhaps, is not this case, but if
that ever were to happen, wouldn't there have to be a
remedy under the Constitution for it?
MR. KNEEDLER: And -- and maybe so, but --
but, again, I think it -- it would be possible to -- to
review it under the general principle about whether a
State interpretation of State law that would defeat a
claim to Federal right would be without any fair or
substantial basis, without -- without saying that the
supreme court itself has committed an unconstitutional
act. It -- it could be looked at that way.
But if I -- but if I could turn to the --
the operation of this statute, what -- what has happened
here is -- as this Court has recognized in numerous
cases, the authority of the State over its submerged
lands is a critical aspect of sovereignty. It is held
in trust for the public and for public uses, and what
has happened here is the State, with respect to its own
sovereign lands, has filled that land. That does not
change the ownership of the sovereign lands.
They remain sovereign lands, and the State
has done it for a critical public purpose, to protect --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Accretion --
accretion, of course, would change.
MR. KNEEDLER: Accretion --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It would take
submerged State land and give it to the landowner.
MR. KNEEDLER: Accretion would, but -- but
avulsion or rapid change would not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So a foot -- I'll
get back to what I raised earlier. A foot a year, if
the State does it and it's a foot a year, does the
property owner get the foot, or does the State get the
foot?
MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I don't want to quibble,
but I think it depends. The -- the Florida Supreme
Court's decision in Sand Key was a situation where the
State had -- had erected a jetty or an offshore
structure that caused sand to accrete on the -- on the
property, and the Florida Supreme Court said that
belongs to the littoral property owner under the
doctrine of -- of accretion.
On the other hand, if the State came along
once a year, on one day, and added a foot, that would
not be gradual and imperceptible, but would be quite
perceptible because the State would have added a foot of
property. And even though it's a small avulsion, I
think it -- I think it would still count as an avulsion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it makes a
difference whether it's done in a day or done in a
month?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the -- the difference
between accretion and avulsion is whether it's gradual
and imperceptible or whether it's -- whether it's
dramatic or --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What authority is there in
Florida law or in general law to say that the act of
an -- an artificial person is an accretion or avulsion,
instead of just an act of nature? What -- what case do
I read or authority do I read?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the Florida Supreme
Court's decision in the -- in the Peppe case relied on
Martin v. Busch, which -- I agree with Justice Scalia,
it's very critical here, where there was State action in
draining the lake, which exposed the surface -- the --
the formerly submerged land, and the Florida Supreme
Court said that land belongs to the State, it was action
by the State in a dramatic way.
And Florida --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but did they call
it an avulsion?
MR. KNEEDLER: They -- they did not there,
but in -- but in --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That -- that -- so that
doesn't answer my question.
MR. KNEEDLER: No, but my point was, in
Peppe, where -- where there was actually an avulsion,
the court characterized what happened in Martin v. Busch
as an avulsive act. But you don't need to label
avulsion, because there's a separate doctrine that when
the State fills its own land, it remains its own land.
And I'd like to point out -- this is not
a unique doctrine --
JUSTICE ALITO: Can I just ask you this,
Mr. Kneedler, before your time expires, what --
I agree, Martin v. Busch seems to be the case that's
most -- provides the greatest support for what the
Florida Supreme Court did here. But what do we do about
the fact that the Florida Supreme Court didn't rely on it?
MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I think it is
surprising, although the Florida Supreme Court did
discuss avulsion, but if -- if I could just make one
point. This is not a -- a unique notion in Florida law.
This Court's decision in
Hughes v. Washington, which dealt with accretion,
responded to the -- to the point that was -- that was
made there and said, well, the -- the littoral property
right is vulnerable anyway because the owner of the
adjacent submerged lands can always take action on his
own lands that could affect what the upland property
owner did.
And this -- and this Court said, yes, that's
right, but we're talking, here, about natural causes.
And in -- in Hughes, the Court cited two cases, one in
Washington State, for example, where the -- where there
was an absolute right to fill the submerged lands even
if that completely cut off access.
It also pointed out another case, from New
Jersey, where -- where the -- a case of this -- from
this Court, where the Court said, you have a right to
accretion as long as nobody's filled the land
in between.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, what is
your --
MR. KNEEDLER: But once the land --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. What --
what is your view on the hypothetical I posed to your --
to your friend? The legislature moves it to the
vegetation line. The State supreme court says that's a
taking. Somebody runs for election to the State supreme
court, saying, I'm going to change that. He's elected.
He changes the law.
Is that a judicial taking?
MR. KNEEDLER: Again, I think I would
analyze it under the fair and substantial basis. But,
yes, if there -- if there is no justification in
background law, if it's basically pretextual in the
same way that -- that any --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, doesn't --
it's not pretextual.
MR. KNEEDLER: Not pretextual, but if
there's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He says, I think
they got the law wrong.
MR. KNEEDLER: But -- but the phrasing the
Court has used in the due process is whether it's
unforeseen and indefensible.
I mean, if -- if there's just -- if there's
just -- if it's just ipse dixit. But there -- but
there -- but that's by no means true here. And it's
important that Martin v. Busch was cited in the two --
and distinguished in the two principal cases on which
the Petitioner relies here.
In Sand Key, the court distinguished Martin
v. Busch on the ground that in Sand Key it was an
accretion, but -- and it distinguished Martin v. Busch
on the -- on the ground that there it was a -- it was a
sudden, dramatic action by the State, and the -- and the
same thing was also true in the Florida National case,
where the -- the court again distinguished --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel --
MR. KNEEDLER: -- Martin v. Busch on that
ground.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would you have
answered Justice Scalia's question that there's a
common -- a generally understood common law right,
littoral right, to contact with the water? Would you
say there is not?
MR. KNEEDLER: I would -- I would say
there -- I would say it's tied up with the right of
access, as long as the littoral property owner remains
adjacent to the water.
But what you have here is a neighboring
property owner, the sovereign, exercising critical
sovereign rights over its property, which has its own
property interests, and if under Florida law the -- the
State is permitted to put sand on the beach -- this is
-- this is not filling for an amusement park. This is
adding something that is very germane to the maintenance
of the beach, for critical public purposes, the very
reasons --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It could be -- it
could be adding an amusement park, though, under your
theory, right?
MR. KNEEDLER: No, it -- I don't think
there's any universal theory of this. As I -- as I said
in -- in the Port of Seattle case --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's the State's
property.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's the State's
property. If they want to put an amusement park on,
they can.
MR. KNEEDLER: No. It varies. And in --
that may be true in the Port of Seattle case discussed
in Hughes, where the State had the -- you're balancing
the rights of adjacent property owners, just like --
just like
nuisance or other principles do. In Washington State,
apparently, you could completely fill the submerged land
and the upland owner had no rights.
In Florida -- Florida is actually more
protective than that. It has limited rights. You have
a -- you maintain a right of view, a right against
unreasonable interference. So there's no one
constitutionally based rule. It's a question of Florida
property law. And the background principles of Florida
property law under Martin v. Busch and the fact that the
State owns the adjacent land, I think, not only is there
-- there is more than a fair and substantial basis here.
There is a -- it's very solidly grounded in State law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's see if there
are any further questions.
(No response.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Safriet, 4 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF D. KENT SAFRIET
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SAFRIET: Thank you, Your Honor.
First, Martin v. Busch does not stand for
the principles that the Respondents suggest they do.
The court in Sand Key said, and in -- and in
distinguishing the Martin v. Busch case, and I quote,
"Our subsequent decisions show there was no intent to
change common law principles regarding the right to
accretion and relictions in Martin v. Busch."
And even if it did stand for that principle,
the Martin v. Busch case didn't discuss whether the
landowner was entitled to compensation for the severance
of their waterfront property as a result of the lowering
of the water.
What also must be noted here is the State
is changing the deeds. They're changing the legal
description and the deeds of the Petitioner's members.
These Petitioner's members own to the mean high-water
line. They have a right, not only under Florida common
law to own to the mean high-water line; under their
deeds, that's what they purchased. And there has been a
lot of discussion and, I think, maybe some confusion
about this right to contact the water.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They wouldn't own to the
mean high-water mark if there were an avulsion, if --
right? If --
MR. SAFRIET: No, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If by nature, this 60-foot
beach had been put in, then their deed would be
changed, wouldn't it?
MR. SAFRIET: Temporarily, Your Honor,
because under the doctrine of reclamation, they can
reclaim the boundary line that they lost, just as if in
a case where the hurricane washes sand away, the
landowner, under common law, the doctrine of
reclamation, can bring in sand where the water is to
reconnect to that mean high-water line that would be
underwater following a hurricane.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, how does that work? I
mean, I have a beachfront property; I wake up one
morning and there's a little half-mile island attached
to half of it, and there we are. Mean high-water mark
is half a mile away. You say I can reclaim that under
Florida law? What's that mean?
MR. SAFRIET: Yes, Florida law allows, under
the doctrine of reclamation, which is what the Florida
Supreme Court relied on --
JUSTICE BREYER: Which is -- how does it
work?
MR. SAFRIET: You'd have to remove the sand.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You shovel away the sand.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, no, no. This is -- you
can't. You can't.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What if it's going the
opposite way? What if it's -- if they built up sand? I
mean --
JUSTICE BREYER: It's rock.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, so what happens?
MR. SAFRIET: I'm not sure the common law
envisioned rock coming up to --
JUSTICE BREYER: It can happen. Okay. So
my point is, I think, which is the same, I think, as
Justice Scalia, that he -- that the upland owner no
longer, under the law of Florida, has a way of getting
his land out to the mean high-water mark. Am I right or
wrong?
MR. SAFRIET: I think that's wrong, Your
Honor. Under the doctrine of reclamation --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Because?
MR. SAFRIET: Under the doctrine of
reclamation, they can reclaim the boundary line. If
that's by depositing new sand where the water is to
reach the mean high-water line, where it was prior to
the hurricane. They can do that.
Conversely, if sand is washed up as a result
of a hurricane, they can remove the sand to bring the
water line back to them.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They can go on the State
land to do that? Because that sand is sitting on State
land.
MR. SAFRIET: That wouldn't be State -- they
can -- the common law allows them to reclaim what
they're lost -- what they lost, Your Honor. And the
Florida Supreme Court tries to rely on this doctrine of
reclamation in this case. It asserts that the State is
only doing what it was allowed under common law,
reclaiming the land that it lost.
But in this case, the Florida Supreme Court
-- or the State of Florida didn't ever possess any dry
sand land, so they can't reclaim any dry sand land. The
only thing they have ever owned was the foreshore and
the sovereign submerged lands. So that's the only thing
they can reclaim.
I think there was another question about the
support for this case. There is more than five
landowners that don't support this case. In the lower
courts, there was another group, Save Our Beaches, that
had, I believe, roughly 150 members that opposed this
project as well in the City of Destin.
In this case, we're also dealing with a
physical taking.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why did they drop out?
MR. SAFRIET: Lack of standing at the
administrative hearing, Your Honor.
What we're dealing with in this case is a
physical taking. What rights were physically possessed
by the Respondent's members -- the Petitioner's members
in this case are now possessed by the State. It's a
wholesale transfer of these rights, along with the
transfer of the deed -- or the description of the deed.
We're not asking this --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't understand why
isn't it -- it is equally an addition to the private
property owners' rights when they had a narrow beach and
now they're claiming that -- that it's all theirs, the
full 75 feet.
MR. SAFRIET: I'm sorry, Your Honor, I
didn't hear your question.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They have, under your
theory, much more property than they had before. They
have a wider beach that's theirs, so they have gained
property, but that doesn't count?
MR. SAFRIET: Well, they haven't gained
property, Your Honor, because the State's claiming title
to that new beach. So our -- the Petitioner's members
owned exactly what they owned as of September 7, 2003,
when the property boundary was changed, and the new
boundary would -- the new land would be State-owned.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. SAFRIET: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.
54:1 55:22,24 65:10 51:19 61:22 56:11,17,20
67:8 action 7:12 19:15 Amendment arose 30:2 avulsions 6:24
13:22 14:2 59:13 amusement 60:8 aside 39:24 awful 8:1
27:20 actions 50:22 60:13,22 asked 24:9 46:8 a.m 1:16 3:2 67:7
33:8,10 actual 12:23 analogy 48:16 asking 22:20
50:3 37:1 48:20 B
45:19
44:2 58:15 aspect 54:6 20:24 34:20
55:9 answer 24:10,13 asserts 65:9 65:1
31:17 37:13,16 association 49:8 background
36:18
38:15,23
49:6 56:15 19:14 25:22 36:11 43:7 45:3
47:22
60:1
anybody 13:6 assuming 11:13 balancing 61:1
4:16
39:12,14 46:25 57:13 as-applied 49:8 basic 4:2 18:9
27:3 28:4
Appeal 4:20 attached 44:10 46:17 58:17
30:5,18
31:13
61:2,14 1:17 attract 41:12 53:24 58:15
33:1,21
45:5
66:3 34:19 authority 17:4 4:13,16 5:16,20
58:1
62:6
41:6 56:3 apply 5:2 8:4 avoid 3:20 16:6,10,14 17:3
applying 33:15 avulsion 6:10,11 17:20 18:5
16:9 34:11
36:9,22
40:3
41:13,15 64:20 67:1,2 5:18 6:20 7:4,8 11:2 13:3 22:5 37:24
42:5,6 branch 4:1 50:23 7:9,10,19,21,24 22:10 25:10 citing 37:21
48:11 branches 3:24 8:23 12:1,2 26:21 29:24 city 41:12,17
break 41:14,19 14:3 15:5,5 30:24 32:6,25 65:23
52:15 42:20 47:3 16:8,19 19:8 33:24 35:9 claim 16:16
63:1 breakers 41:25 21:22 23:5 39:10 51:23 49:20 50:25
Breyer 7:15 8:15 25:15,21,24 54:10,14,19 53:23
65:21 10:7,10,18 27:10,12,15,24 changed 12:24 66:14,23
19:16,16 37:18 43:5 44:5 29:7,22 30:1,1 changes 26:19 23:2
33:2 35:1 44:6 45:13,20 30:10,16 31:3 51:14 58:12 clause 4:15 5:2
42:13 45:23 46:22 32:10,18 34:20 changing 26:25 11:5 15:22
63:12 52:22 53:2 35:17 36:12,16 36:1 39:4 62:13 clear 35:17 45:15
3:9 briefs 14:5 46:25 49:12 56:18 coast 21:15
48:2 bring 63:8 64:25 50:12,21 51:16 Chief 3:3,10 9:15 colleague 46:8
61:23 broad 17:17 52:8,15 53:11 10:19,22 16:20 colloquy 46:21
brought 46:16 56:2 57:1,23,24 23:6 24:9 28:19 33:5 34:10 37:2
34:14 62:3,8 63:6 31:5,8,11,16,18 comes 8:17 19:19
builds 17:23 65:24 66:4,7 32:23 34:18,24 44:20
49:19 62:8 caused 55:4 54:13,16,20 18:24 23:22
C 2:1 3:1 certain 7:22 60:21 61:17,20 38:11,21 39:25
22:5 28:2 careful 49:17 34:11 57:19 59:6 compensable
63:5 case 3:4 4:11 change 10:24 cites 6:21 29:4 47:11
34:13,15 36:13 36:6,20 40:18 dealing 26:19 33:12 47:1
38:1,6,8,23 44:24 49:17,21 dealt 28:2,11 differences 8:2
11:5 16:12 45:8 59:22 51:1,3,13,19,23 December 1:12 13:24 16:24
19:2,3 62:20 52:18 53:2,6,25 decide 5:5 24:24 17:3 36:4,8
44:19 contained 4:14 54:4 55:5 56:7 decided 11:18 43:13
62:9 contention 24:18 56:18 57:3,4,6 41:12,14 differently 4:1
continuance 59:15 62:2 45:17 49:17 32:4 40:23 46:4
61:5 18:22 21:5 courts 24:24 declaration 52:3 60:25
48:3 conventional 23:21 24:13,15 deeds 62:13,14 dissent 52:15
12:14,15 13:5 creating 16:13 29:24 62:3
59:16 61:20 60:4,10 depends 29:12 8:10 28:3 33:24
country 50:8 62:14 66:9 document 44:10
53:18 13:7 35:5 54:14 D 1:18,20 2:3,5 42:1 10:14 11:9
52:17 3:12,13,17 4:20 28:22 61:22 Destin 65:23 14:25,25 48:21
61:11 5:12 7:21 8:19 16:15 21:25,25 determined 38:5 41:17 65:10
9:2 27:17,19,24 deal 20:19 21:3,9 dicta 37:22 16:11 20:8
19:24 28:25 30:6 21:12 22:21 dictum 7:18 dominant 24:12
58:10 exactly 39:4 58:15 61:15 41:16 42:3 44:8
56:8 6:10 exchange 18:18 Federal 24:24 55:22 56:1,6,9
eminent 4:18 19:4 52:17 53:23 57:3,4,6,8
enacted 4:6 15:8,13 40:25 feet 15:7,11,11 61:7,11,12
enhancement 23:22 fee-simple 18:8 focus 51:5
21:24 enjoy 15:2 50:23 Fifth 3:16,25 following 36:15
enjoyment 9:23 exercised 51:8,9 figure 49:12 36:17 63:10
59:1 49:4 exist 3:15 5:13 filled 54:9 58:1 13:4 20:1 29:14
39:19 find 25:2 54:24 55:9,11
51:20,25 1:8 3:5 explain 14:5 first 4:20 43:14 former 9:2
envisioned 64:9 exposed 56:5 51:16 53:14 formerly 19:21
23:13,14 erected 55:3 expressing five 43:23 65:19 forth 48:22
24:12 erode 44:12,15 38:21 fix 19:19 found 37:14
53:8 eroded 18:16 expressly 3:12 Fla 1:18,21 fourth 43:19,19
21:16 36:22 fling 47:3 free 10:24
18:21 erosion 16:7 32:25 Florida 1:7 3:5 front 8:16 13:15
39:21 18:19,24 20:4 extends 8:17 3:17 4:3,4,23 13:15 15:23
2:3,5,7,11 9:1 11:3 13:1 full 66:15
43:9 11:24 12:9 facial 49:7,12 26:6,23 27:16 5:23 21:21
39:17 40:11 facts 31:24,25 35:8 36:6,12 20:3,20 21:4
Everybody 21:9 fair 25:12 26:2 39:19,25 40:3 future 13:2 34:12
59:10 64:22 idea 29:2 intervene 24:25
holding 37:23 impaired 47:23 intervenes 48:12
homes 13:20 47:10 48:1,13 involved 5:16
53:21
8:23 9:8,18 55:10,19 island 13:25
implementing issue 5:11 9:2
14:4,16
22:1
47:13
66:1,11
42:14 24:3 25:6 26:1 inch 8:18 32:13 38:8 47:1 55:19
64:10 26:18 27:20 inches 32:13 55:19
31:9 32:10 62:24 63:3 including 36:19 41:23 56:22
19:3,4
54:3,8 64:17 65:7 66:3 increased 44:15
45:19
66:16,23 incremental J
64:7 11:9 12:13,13 indefensible jetty 55:3
19:2,9
37:23 40:4
house 13:16,25 25:5 24:23 25:9 35:7
44:3 65:2
35:9,9
44:14
huge 41:15 ingress 43:13 judicially 35:20
51:23
64:1
54:6 52:10 57:10,19 injurious 10:17 jurisprudence
28:16
32:5
9:2 11:8 64:25 interfere 11:21 9:10,15,20 10:4
13:2 14:12 hurricanes 6:20 interference 10:7,10,13,18
16:17 21:17 22:2,4,4 49:3 61:10 10:19,22 11:6
20:10 hypothetical intermediate 11:12,22 12:7
35:2,6 24:7 34:21 36:5 43:25 12:12,16,22
63:23,24 64:1,4 know 7:13 10:8 22:24 4:12,22 5:6
15:15 64:5,7,10,12,18 17:12,22,23 larger 19:20 10:24 11:1 34:5
16:20 65:2 66:1,11,18 19:1,2,3 20:20 Laughter 10:15 34:25 36:9
67:3,5 21:17 28:7 31:5 21:1 22:13 42:17 44:8 48:5
19:13 justifiable 37:6 35:25 37:15 28:13,18 33:9 50:22 51:14
21:2,8 justification 38:20 44:7 46:7 42:21 46:1,6 58:8
22:1,10 36:24 58:16 51:23 47:4 64:6 let's 19:25 25:22
23:4,6 justify 37:20 knows 19:1 law 5:8,24 6:3,4,5 34:24 39:1,9
6:12,12 7:4,8 61:17
K L 7:10 8:3,13 9:8 level 27:17
26:10 keep 7:17 41:23 label 33:18,20,21 9:21 10:9,17 limited 61:8
49:8 33:21 56:19 17:22 18:24 line 6:1,2 8:24,25
28:5,7,16 keeping 34:6 Lack 66:2 23:23 24:3,16 9:2 12:3,9
29:12 49:22 lake 27:10 38:4 24:18,25 25:11 14:12,13 16:7
30:8 keeps 9:24 56:5 25:13,17,20 16:18 18:20,24
Kennedy 19:13 land 6:13 8:16 26:5,8,9,18,25 20:10 21:5 22:5
20:13 23:12,17 9:16 10:12 11:7 29:2,25 32:15 22:11 24:6,20
23:20 24:4,7,21 12:10,14 14:12 32:25 34:3 35:9 29:8,18 30:25
25:14 26:10 14:18,23 15:15 35:12 36:12 31:3 35:6,21,22
33:12,20 27:2,5 46:20 15:18 16:3,25 37:6 38:11,21 36:10 38:5 39:3
35:16 47:5,7,15,20,25 16:25 17:14,24 39:25 40:5 39:4,10,11,12
36:3,14 48:10,17 49:1 18:2,3,10 19:21 42:18 45:3,12 39:14,15,21
38:9 49:10,23 55:21 20:20 23:7 45:14,15,16,17 58:9 62:16,17
40:7 56:10,14 29:11 30:2 47:22,24 49:11 63:5,9 64:20,22
KENT 1:18 2:3 35:11 40:12 52:16 53:22 65:1
42:2 2:11 3:8 61:22 48:4 53:8 54:9 55:22,22 57:8 lines 35:23
Key 7:19 27:24 54:17 56:6,7,21 58:12,17,24 list 43:9 44:2,18
44:5,6,17 28:11 36:16,16 56:21 58:1,5 59:21 60:6 44:18 45:18
45:3,6,13 37:1,2,10,15,22 61:5,14 64:14 61:12,13,16 48:3,4
46:4,7 37:24 38:20 65:3,4,11,14,14 62:5,17 63:7,16 listed 45:18
43:11 55:2 59:9 67:2 63:17 64:8,13 litigated 4:11
59:10 62:2 landowner 8:11 65:6,10 12:2
48:2 Key's 38:9 8:12 32:3 44:20 laws 26:22 litigation 4:3
49:1,4 kind 4:5 5:15,17 54:17 62:9 63:7 lawyerly 28:16 little 44:1,1 50:9
43:10 landowners lay 13:14 63:13
Kneedler 1:22 15:12 16:5 18:8 laying 15:1 littoral 3:18 4:21
2:7 50:15,16,19 18:11 20:9 learn 38:18 5:5,6 6:3,4,5
51:11,15,21,24 22:25 46:10 leave 26:16,22 13:9,13 16:13
54:13,16 52:9,13 53:1,19 65:20 leaves 49:14 16:22 19:25
55:14,21 54:15,18,25 lands 11:16 leaving 26:25 23:23 27:1
55:17 56:1,12 23:10 29:9 34:4 legal 62:13 36:17 38:14
56:16,25 57:5 34:4 38:7 54:6 legislation 4:4 40:6,6,8,17
58:5,14,21,25 54:9,10,11 11:7,23 12:17 43:4 48:8 52:3
59:17,24 60:15 57:14,15,21 37:8 40:19 52:5 55:6 57:12
62:21 60:20,24 65:16 legislative 3:24 59:22 60:1
63:11,20 knock 33:4,6 lapping 21:23 legislature 4:6,8 located 12:2
40:9,14,23 41:2 members 17:20 10:2 16:5,9,24 51:22 63:24
38:6 39:18 42:24 43:2 44:4 22:19 27:7 18:14,20,25 25:14 34:10
64:13 44:8 45:2,11,19 62:14,15 65:22 19:10 20:1 21:5 35:20 42:20
44:20,22 47:7,19,24 48:7 merely 26:5 25:20 39:5 53:10 64:7,10
52:18 48:15,25 49:6 met 49:24 52:21 57:23 64:18
13:2,9 18:25 miles 34:7 nobody's 58:1 25:18 55:9 58:5
21:4 Mars 33:17 minutes 61:21 normally 53:13 54:3
20:9 27:12 29:4,5 misunderstan... notion 38:22 57:8 25:8,15,19
44:24 30:6,15 32:17 21:22 nuclear 53:5 26:11 36:21
65:7,7,11 34:14,17 38:3 money 13:20 nuisance 61:4 43:6,8 49:19
62:19 59:6,9,11,17 month 55:16 29:2 39:1 opinions 23:21
38:4 15:21 41:20 mouth 45:25 O 2:1 3:1 oral 1:14 2:2 3:8
9:2 11:8 obtain 16:10 15:18 46:9
21:15 24:5,19 National 59:14 occurs 8:12 25:9 outside 11:17
39:14 43:6 39:13 55:24 oceanography 42:6 65:15
45:25 47:23 62:25 47:6 66:25,25
50:2 59:3 62:15 need 17:19 49:2 oceanview 3:19 owner 6:13 7:20
62:17,22 63:9 52:20 56:19 odd 26:13 7:23 17:6 18:8
32:4,9 63:12,14,16 neighboring offices 4:9 24:8,9 26:22
33:8,10 64:3,14,22 60:3 offset 20:2,7,12 29:10,10 32:19
34:2,23 meaning 21:25 never 5:15 53:3 offsetting 20:8 38:14 39:18
36:2,7 means 7:5 59:5 53:13 offshore 55:3 40:1,8,13,16
meant 37:19 new 5:14 7:15,25 oh 30:19 31:10 43:16,22 47:10
50:10 perceptible police 18:9 principal 59:7 26:16,21,22
55:6 31:15 55:11 Port 60:17,25 principle 7:4 28:2 29:6,8,10
60:1,4 perfectly 43:10 portion 48:8 38:13 52:16 29:22 30:4
64:12 periodically port-a-johns 53:21 62:7 31:21 32:16,25
20:19 22:8 permanent 10:2 posed 58:7 25:13 26:7 35:24 36:17
38:4,18 47:6 posing 35:15 36:12 45:3 61:4 38:5,8,16 39:3
44:16 permit 42:14 position 4:3 61:12 62:1,5 39:4,6,7,10,11
49:18 permitted 60:7 15:17,21 16:21 prior 64:22 39:14,21 40:4
66:13 person 35:12 46:2,23 private 3:22 40:17,21 41:3
54:10 Petitioner 1:5,19 possess 6:3 29:10 30:4 46:18,24 49:9
33:2 Petitioners 66:5,7 pro 18:14 53:14 54:23
46:14 possesses 27:8 probably 22:23 55:5,6,12 57:12
50:2 Petitioner's possibility 13:2 53:16 57:15 60:1,4,5
61:14 21:12,14 22:17 35:15,16 problem 46:20 60:6,19,22 61:2
66:6 possible 53:20 problematic 61:12,13 62:10
physically 66:5 5:20 7:17 8:5 project 3:21 5:16 37:25
53:14 5:8 25:12 26:4 18:2 29:14 32:2 51:10
placing 11:15 precisely 28:9 65:23 54:12
plants 53:8 presents 5:18 properties 13:10 protecting 40:3
41:25 4:14 5:21 41:24 property 3:15,18 3:6 4:4 43:11
19:24 pleasure 12:23 43:3 5:10,25 6:1,13 protective 61:8
53:6 ploy 51:12 Presumably 7:20,23 8:13 protects 36:23
15:1 17:24 43:3 48:18 pretty 22:21 15:22 16:7 17:1 19:12 20:7
21:15 51:24 56:16,22 27:10 17:2,3,6,7,9,12 23:16 26:2 43:9
35:10 57:8,11 64:11 prevail 19:14 17:12,18 18:16 43:10 47:14
42:5 pointed 57:23 prevented 20:20 19:4 20:2 21:4 57:2
56:2,17 45:17 price 20:21 23:1,11 24:8,10 9:21
15:21,23 reached 8:5 regulate 17:2,2,4 1:21,25 2:6,9 53:1,3,14,23
18:1 read 28:8 37:3,5 17:17 18:9 28:23 50:18 57:13,18,21,25
34:5 37:16 43:7 regulates 17:12 62:1 59:21,22,25
54:7,7,12 55:25,25 regulation 18:4 Respondent's 60:14 61:9,9
reading 26:11 regulations 66:6 62:5,16,20,23
54:12 reason 3:25 6:21 reinstate 16:17 restoration 3:21 5:1,5,7,12 6:3,4
20:24 45:17 46:22 28:4,9 20:9 33:25 24:18 26:21,23
43:15 47:1 relictions 62:6 62:10 64:24 35:24 36:17,18
60:7,22 reasoned 34:9 relied 26:7 27:16 retains 29:9,10 40:4,6 42:13
reasons 60:11 56:2 63:19 32:18 43:4 48:8,14
33:21 recall 31:8 remain 6:2 36:20 44:25 53:21 66:5,8,13
recede 18:25 54:11 reviewing 26:4 riparian 40:4,13
34:2 39:9 65:17 remove 63:22 9:4,7,10,14,17 33:13
46:8 reclaiming 65:11 64:25 9:23,23 10:5,11 river 47:9
56:15 reclamation 63:4 Renourishment 11:19,21 12:7 road 50:4,7,8,11
61:11 63:8,18 64:17 1:4 3:5 12:22 13:10,11 ROBERTS 3:3
66:17 64:20 65:9 replaced 18:15 13:14 15:4,7 9:15 10:19,22
61:18 recognized 54:4 replacement 7:1 19:24,25 22:6 17:21 23:4,6
records 14:6 requesting 4:17 24:21 27:6,14 31:23 32:1,7,11
16:24 17:4,14 38:14,15 40:21 51:18,22 52:7
54:21
51:7 54:8 43:17 45:4,5,7 58:23 60:12,18
32:2,18 35:1 28:22 Solicitor 1:20,22 19:3,19,23
38:9,20 39:2,5 Seattle 60:17,25 somebody 9:15 24:8,25 25:1,5
41:8 43:11 12:10 39:6,17 52:3 58:10 25:25 26:3,5,8
63:6,8,22 see 3:25 17:18 somewhat 45:24 29:9,9,14,17,20
65:14,14 52:18 61:17 66:16 32:15,18 33:2,5
3:7,8,10 saved 20:3 44:23 send 23:10 sorts 25:2 38:17 39:12
5:19 6:15 savings 4:15 5:2 sentence 37:3,5 SOTOMAYOR 41:8 42:6 48:3
7:3,10 8:8 saying 16:4 separate 56:20 11:6,12,22 12:7 48:15,18,20,23
9:7,13,18 34:25 37:15 separated 26:14 12:12,16,22 49:25 50:1 51:8
39:11 49:18 separates 40:11 59:16,19 52:16 53:4,6,7
12:1 53:24 58:11 September 66:25 sounds 8:3 35:19 53:22,22 54:5,8
says 7:5,11,22 set 44:11 sovereign 23:10 54:11,17,22,23
8:19 10:8,16 severance 62:9 51:9,10 54:9,10 55:3,8,11 56:4
19:19 24:8 35:4 shallow 11:14 54:11 60:4,5 56:7,8,21 57:20
16:4 17:6 35:9 36:16,21 shock 5:3 65:16 58:9,10 59:13
18:6 36:22 40:19 shore 4:13 5:20 sovereignty 34:4 60:7 61:1,4,14
19:7 20:6 44:20 47:16 30:25 41:24 38:7 54:6 61:16 62:12
21:7,11 53:6 58:9,23 shovel 63:23 special 23:21 65:2,3,5,9,13
22:3,16 Scalia 6:8,17,23 show 62:4 specifically 7:10 66:7
23:5,8,15 7:8 8:1 10:13 side 8:7 11:7 29:7 spring 41:14,19 statement 38:9
24:2,5,15 13:7,12,19,24 29:17 31:2 41:25 42:20 43:11
26:1,18 18:13,22 20:18 39:11 47:3,3 statements 51:3
21:2,8,14 22:10 sidewalks 17:23 stand 9:16,24 States 1:1,15,24
28:6,10 22:14,19 27:9 silly 38:24 11:9 61:25 62:7 2:8 3:16 50:17
27:14,18,21 simply 38:10 standard 24:23 stateside 12:14
28:5,7,16 29:23 sit 12:18,20 standing 66:2 State's 3:23 32:2
63:3,17 30:8,14,16,20 sitting 65:3 stands 10:14 38:7 39:2,6,6
64:8,16 31:1,7 38:9 situation 5:15,15 14:25 48:21 41:3 60:18,21
65:5 66:2 40:7,10 42:11 5:17 7:15,25 starts 35:1 66:23
67:4 42:19,22,25 8:4,4 14:17 State 3:13 6:14 State-owned
15:4 62:21,25 63:23 45:15 47:10 11:17 12:9 13:1 40:12 67:2
18:14 64:1,5,12 65:2 55:2 15:12,16,19,21 State's 33:19
21:18 Scalia's 52:14 six 45:17 16:3,8,9,11,15 statute 9:11,25
23:2 59:20 small 55:12 16:23 17:1,7,12 10:1,10 20:7,17
28:11 scenario 35:14 sold 24:10 17:17,23 18:9 23:16 40:5
31:3 SCOTT 1:20 2:5 sole 36:24 18:13,17,17 47:13,16 54:3
37:14 44:18 53:8 33:25 34:1,12 52:5,23
suggested 52:14 33:24 44:20 51:23 traverse 14:23
20:22 support 25:12 takes 48:5 49:1 10:1 17:16 18:6 trial 19:9,9 49:24
22:23 26:2 57:2 65:19 takings 4:4 15:22 20:19 21:21 tried 41:7
65:20 20:15 24:23 24:10 26:1 28:5 tries 65:8
29:12 41:11,12 49:10 38:13,17,17 try 8:4 37:23
43:16 supposed 43:22 talked 22:5 39:21 43:19 trying 16:10
24:13,15 26:7 57:18 58:14,23 60:15 38:25 43:12
15:16 27:24 34:10 Tallahassee 1:18 64:11,11,16 type 18:10
19:21 35:8 36:6 40:18 1:20 65:18 types 23:1
30:3 38:7 41:16 42:3 target 4:5 thought 4:2 5:7 typical 8:3
56:6 49:16 51:3,4 televised 41:18 9:21 14:8 21:8 typically 14:12
61:5 53:25 55:1,5 tell 9:17 37:18 21:9,12 22:2,21
56:1,6 57:3,4,6 26:13,17 27:9 U
47:23
26:2 34:23 37:17,21 tied 59:25 42:2 66:11
50:13,14
48:8,13 47:7 48:7 50:7 time 14:8 15:5 understood
67:3,4
49:3 52:10 64:8 17:13 28:15 59:21
53:24 surface 56:5 44:13 48:11,11 underwater
61:15 surprising 57:6 56:25 63:10
44:9 title 15:18 16:1,2 unforeseen 59:2
60:14,16
40:19
29:24 66:23 United 1:1,15,24
3:16 50:17 58:9 57:20 61:4 we're 27:4 0
vendors 14:25 water 6:10,14 wholesale 66:8 1
Venus 33:18 8:19,21,24 9:5 wider 41:9 66:20 100 15:11 20:1
25:11 versa 26:16 12:13,18,21 willing 22:17,25 100-year-old
48:19 versus 16:25 16:23 21:6 wind 7:12 11:04 67:7
vested 36:17 22:12,24 23:24 words 45:25 150 65:22
24:8 29:10 29:19 36:4 37:25 38:1,4,6 44:24 2
38:4 38:11 46:12 38:15,15,16,23 wouldn't 17:18 2 1:12
40:1,15 47:9,11,22 58:7 39:18 40:2 21:18 22:14 200 15:7 21:24
47:10 61:9 43:12 45:4,8 53:17 62:21 34:7
violate 3:24 9:25 48:13 52:4,24 63:2 65:5 200-foot 15:6
61:6 violated 4:4 59:22 60:2 wouldn't 21:18 19:11 22:7
violates 3:15 62:11,20 63:8 writing 43:6 2003 66:25
vulnerable 57:13 waterfront 62:10 64:15,16 2010 42:20
20:22 water's 9:1 28 2:6
34:4 W way 19:19 25:22 X
32:15 45:16,16
17:25 year 29:15 31:18
54:7 64:2,13 4 61:21
52:4 31:19 32:2 48:5
30:1 34:14 37:4,13 43:8 20:23 31:22
38:3 56:3 46:25 49:10 33:11 34:6,7,8
57:1,10 54:25 60:22 50:9 6
wanted 9:15 you'd 42:10 6 18:15 20:23
62:3,6 11:10,18 12:18 We'll 49:12 you're 32:23 32:13
30:4 41:12 44:6 we're 5:4 15:3 60 40:11 41:1
20:2,9 64:24 33:18,18 34:18 $100,000 44:21 61 2:12
washes 63:6 51:12 57:18 44:22
66:4,10 $20,000 44:24
39:5 44:14
19:10
15:11 16:18
16:5,10
