IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
POTTAWATTAMIE COUNTY, :
IOWA, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 08-1065
CURTIS W. MCGHEE, JR., ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, November 4, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
STEPHEN SANDERS, ESQ., Chicago, Ill.; on behalf of the
Petitioners.
NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
Petitioners.
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
STEPHEN SANDERS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioners 16
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
STEPHEN SANDERS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 56
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 08-1065,
Pottawattamie County v. McGhee.
Mr. Sanders?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN SANDERS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SANDERS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
If a prosecutor's absolute immunity in
judicial proceedings means anything, it means that a
prosecutor may not be sued because a trial has ended in
a conviction, Yet that is exactly what happened in this
case.
Lower courts may not fashion exceptions to
the immunity this -- this Court provided in Imbler by
purporting to relocate a due process injury from the
trial to an earlier investigation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your -- your case here is
a polite way of telling us we wasted our time in
Buckley v. Fitzsimmons.
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, we were just
spinning our wheels in that case?
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, I don't believe so
at all. I think that this case presents exactly the
question that Buckley reserved, and that is whether the
fabrication of evidence by a prosecutor in and of
itself, without regard to its use in some way, states a
constitutional cause of action.
In this case, the use at trial, obviously,
was absolutely immunized under Imbler and many of this
other -- this Court's other precedents. Despite
respondent's best efforts to argue that there was some
sort of due process violation caused by the fabrication
itself, without regard to its use in some way, there
simply is no support for that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does that mean that, even
if we were dealing with police officers who did what the
prosecutors were alleged to have done at the
investigation stage, no prosecutor, only police
investigators, the fact that a trial and a conviction
had occurred would mean that the police officers were
not liable, either?
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, the fact that a
trial and conviction had occurred could mean that the
police officers were liable because of the due process
violation at the trial, but in footnote 5 of Buckley,
this Court was very clear and insisted that there is no
disjunction between observing that a prosecutor, like a
police officer, has only qualified immunity during the
investigation while, at the same time, insisting that
that does not affect the fact that the prosecutor has
absolute --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Take two cases. One is
Justice Ginsburg's case, a police officer fabricates the
evidence, dupes the prosecuting attorney, or -- or
doesn't fully disclose. Case two, a prosecutor does the
same thing and gives it to a fellow prosecutor.
Same -- should the analysis be precisely the
same?
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, it should be the
same if the prosecutor in the second case that you
hypothesize had nothing to do with the later
prosecution. In other words, if we could view that
prosecutor simply as an ordinary citizen, simply as a
complaining witness, as analogous to a police officer,
So there's no argument in this case that simply, by
virtue of being a prosecutor, a prosecutor has absolute
immunity.
The courts below wrongfully abrogated trial
immunity because trial is the only place where the
injury of conviction and subsequent incarceration could
have taken place. Without reference to that specific
injury, there is simply no other injury. The --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm not sure that I fully
grasp your answer to my first question and to Justice
Kennedy's, that is, yes or no, if everything that
happened was alleged to have happened, but it was done
by a police officer or a different prosecutor,
nonetheless, the trial went on, the fabricated evidence
was introduced, without any participation by the actual
prosecutor in that fabrication, does a conviction --
does the -- do the police officers or the prosecutors
that was not involved in the trial get absolute -- are
they -- are they no more liable, not because they have
absolute immunity, but because the trial and conviction
at which the evidence was used overtakes what liability
they might have had, absent the trial?
Is that your position?
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, our position is --
I believe I would agree with you. Our position is there
is no liability for the initial fabrication. As the
United States explains in its brief, for a police
officer to be held liable in those circumstances, it
would need to be under some sort of malicious
prosecution theory that would depend on the actual
conviction and the use of the evidence at trial.
But the use of the evidence at trial is the
injury itself, and that is exclusively a prosecutorial
act, only a prosecutor could --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're not answering the
question clearly. Are both the prosecutor, in Justice
Ginsburg's hypothetical, and the policeman liable?
Can't you answer that? Yes or no.
MR. SANDERS: Yes. This Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Good. That's what I
thought your answer was.
MR. SANDERS: Yes. The police officer --
likely, this Court has never -- never addressed the
issue. The police officer would likely be liable
because the police officer would have no immunity for
the use of the evidence.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, she's more concerned
about the prosecutor, and the prosecutor, also, would be
treated just like a police officer?
MR. SANDERS: If the prosecutor performed no
prosecutorial function, that's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: In the case?
MR. SANDERS: That's correct, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But only if the --
only if the evidence is presented at trial?
MR. SANDERS: But only if the evidence is
presented at trial because that's the only way the
evidence can provide injury and so --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So the -- so the law is
the more deeply you're involved in the wrong, the more
likely you are to be immune? That's a strange
proposition.
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, I think it's not
the more deeply you are involved, it's whether you are
in the unique position of a prosecutor to cause injury
by use of the evidence at trial. That is exclusively a
prosecutorial function.
The function test of -- of Buckley goes to
what function someone is performing, but only the
prosecutor can ever perform the function of actually
using the evidence.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's strange to say
you can have a prosecutor, who wasn't involved in the
trial, would have liability, but as long as the
prosecutor, in effect, turns the investigatory stage
material over to himself, rather than to another
prosecutor, then there's absolute immunity.
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, that is correct,
but I think the Court, more than 80 years ago, when it
summarily affirmed Yaselli v. Goff from the Second
Circuit, spoke to this question.
In that case, the Court said -- affirmed the
Second Circuit in its view that, if a prosecutor
cannot -- if a prosecutor has absolute immunity for
acting maliciously at trial, that immunity cannot be
circumvented --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, but the -- the
question is not at trial, nothing about trial. It's the
pretrial conduct.
MR. SANDERS: The -- the odd thing about --
if we are taking out reference to the trial itself, then
there simply can be no claim. Respondents urge a new
freestanding right, separate and apart from the due
process trial right, yet at the same time --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you said that
there -- that there would be liability, as long as it
wasn't the same person involved in the investigation and
the trial. Even though there had been a trial, you
say -- you answered Justice Scalia, that those people
separated from the trial would be liable, even though
there was a trial, and it's at issue.
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, looking to the
common law, the rationale for that would be a form of
malicious prosecution, but as you observed in your
concurrence in Albright, asserting malicious prosecution
against a prosecutor would be anomalous because it's the
prosecutor who is exclusively responsible for causing
the kind of injury.
If a police officer or a nonprosecuting
prosecutor simply fabricates the evidence, as Chief
Judge Easterbrook of the Seventh Circuit said, there can
be no cause of action.
It is the exclusive function of a prosecutor
in a case who uses the evidence who can cause the
injury, and although --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that makes no sense
because, if you go down that road, then what you're
saying is that neither the -- neither a police officer
or a different prosecutor who fabricated evidence could
be liable, either, because the only person who causes
the deprivation is the prosecutor who uses the false
evidence at trial.
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, this Court has not
spoken to that question, but as you stated, that would
be the rationale of the restatement actually. The
restatement says, if there is no deception of the
prosecutor, then it is the prosecutor's willful and free
will use of the evidence at trial.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, the Second Circuit
in its decision, Judge Newman, looked at it and said
there are two causes to the injury here. One is the
fabrication, joint tortfeasors. There are two people
who can cause any injury and the prosecutor who actually
puts the evidence in at trial. That's how you hold
police officers and different prosecutors liable because
they are assisting in the violation that is occurring.
MR. SANDERS: Uh-hmm.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why doesn't that theory
fit the same prosecutor who commits two different acts?
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: One commits the direct
violation, and the other act, the investigatory act,
contributes to it, leads to it as a joint activity with
it.
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, I believe the
analysis is not that it -- because it leads to the
injury itself. The tort of wrongful conviction based on
use of false evidence at trial has only one element
under this Court's precedents in Pyle and Mooney and
Hysler and Rochin. That element is the prosecutor's use
of the evidence at trial. But simply because that act
is absolutely immune is not to say that someone else
who's responsible for --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're confusing -- the
constitutional injury is the deprivation of liberty.
That's the injury.
MR. SANDERS: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What causes that injury
is not an element of the crime. It is -- the question
is have you proven the violation, have you proven the
injury.
MR. SANDERS: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why does the use
define the scope of the injury?
MR. SANDERS: Because that is the way a
prosecutor would be held liable. The cause of action
against a prosecutor, even though he would be absolutely
immune, would be the prosecutor's knowing or even
unknowing use of the false evidence at trial. But in
this case, Respondents ask for a free-standing due
process right that would somehow at the same time
protect the interest against wrongful conviction at
trial. That simply can't be. This Court's decision --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the view that
Judge Fairchild expressed very simply. He said if this
fabrication had not occurred, there never would have
been any trial.
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, as we discussed in
our opening brief in this case, I think that Judge
Fairchild's reasoning is classic malicious prosecution
reasoning. That is, that it's the false evidence that
impelled the prosecution. But again, this Court has
been absolutely clear that a malicious prosecution
theory cannot be asserted against a prosecutor because a
prosecutor can initiate willfully and maliciously a
wrongful prosecution based on good evidence, bad
evidence, or no evidence at all.
It's simply untenable to say -- and this
Court's decision last term in Van de Kamp made clear
that where the injury comes at trial, where that is the
interest protected against, that you can somehow
abrogate immunity and continue with a case based on that
kind of claim based on a claim of an earlier due process
right --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was there no injury in
the period before? Let's leave out the trial for a
moment. There was a deprivation of liberty during the
investigatory stage.
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, I think any
earlier deprivation of liberty would be covered by the
Fourth Amendment. The Fourth Amendment is not
implicated in the question presented here. It has not
been briefed. Surely there would be an interest against
wrongful seizure or, since this -- these arrests were
pursuant to legal process, against a form of malicious
prosecution. But again, that would be a Fourth
Amendment theory and it could not be asserted if it is
malicious prosecution against a prosecutor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would you clear up one
thing for me I really don't quite understand. You do
agree that if the police officers did this there would
be liability?
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, this Court has not
addressed that issue. That is the view of some of the
circuits and the Restatement.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Are you assuming that to
be correct or are you disputing that?
MR. SANDERS: We're assuming that to be
correct, but if I --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But if that's true, why
doesn't the trial immunize the police officers because
they didn't cause the trial? Well, they were in the
background in the same sense that these prosecutors are.
But why would the police officers be liable?
MR. SANDERS: A police officer would never
get immunity at trial because --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Not to get immunity, but
why is he liable? Why is he liable? Because the injury
was caused by the trial, if I understand your theory.
MR. SANDERS: The theory of the common law
on malicious prosecution would be that the police
officer is liable because his fabrication of evidence
impelled the proceeding, caused the proceeding .
JUSTICE STEVENS: But it was not a malicious
prosecution. The prosecution -- the prosecutors acted
in good faith all the way through, so there is no
malicious prosecution. So what is the basis for
liability against the police officers?
MR. SANDERS: The basis for liability
precisely against the police officer would be the
violation of the due process right to a fair trial,
Wrongful conviction on the basis of the introduction --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Why doesn't the theory
apply to the facts of this case also?
MR. SANDERS: This theory wouldn't apply to
the facts of this case because in this case the
prosecutors made the decision independently to initiate
the prosecution. It's undisputed that they did that in
their capacity as prosecutors. They -- the police
officers' act could not cause injury but for the
immunized act of a prosecutor beginning the prosecution
and conducting the trial.
JUSTICE STEVENS: This investigation by the
prosecutor could not have caused injury but for the
immunized act of going forward with the trial.
MR. SANDERS: But, Your Honor, I think --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What's the difference?
MR. SANDERS: I think that that reasoning
would be to what this Court affirmed in Yaselli and what
this Court has said -- and which the Court has
repeatedly cited favorably, and that is -- and it would
also run up against the concerns that Justice Kennedy
indicated in his concurrence in Buckley, which this --
the majority in Buckley also disputed and said there is
no disjunction between qualified immunity for a
prosecutor during an investigation but absolute immunity
for the act of setting the prosecution in motion.
The Court was absolutely clear in footnote 5
of Buckley that there was no disjunction, and as this
Court has indicated in Malley v. Briggs and other cases,
anything other than absolute immunity for a prosecutor
would impair the -- would impair the performance of a
central actor in the judicial process.
With the Court's permission, I'll reserve
the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Katyal.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL K. KATYAL
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
MR. KATYAL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice
and may it please the Court:
This Court's decision in Buckley v.
Fitzsimmons the question presented today, which is
whether a cause of action exists against prosecutors
alleged to have fabricated evidence. Respondents'
answer to this question asks this Court to announce for
first time ever that there is a free-standing due
process right not to be framed. That theory would
untether due process from the right to a fair trial,
which is the process a defendant is due before being
deprived of liberty.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why do we need that theory?
I mean, why not just say what Newman said and the others
said? There is no free-standing right. There is just a
right not to convict a person with made-up evidence, and
of course a prosecutor insofar as he's involved in the
prosecutorial stage is absolutely immune. But if he's
involved in the investigatorial stage of that event,
well, then he's not immune absolutely. That's a policy
decision. That has nothing to do with free-standing
rights.
MR. KATYAL: Respondents' primary submission
before this Court is not that argument. They don't rest
--
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then I'm making
that argument.
MR. KATYAL: Right, and with respect to that
I think we have several, several responses. The first
is that this Court has rejected that kind of mere
foreseeability analysis in the context of section 1983.
JUSTICE BREYER: Mere foreseeability. You
can fill in those boundaries, Toffler, not Toffler, as
you wish. But the basic theory isn't a problem because,
after all, we're just drawing a line somewhere within
the stage of an ongoing tort on the basis of policy, and
Buckley suggests such a line. I don't see a conceptual
problem there, is my problem. Maybe there are practical
problems, but I don't see a conceptual one.
MR. KATYAL: I think there are practical and
conceptual problems, which is why Buckley reserved
precisely this question in footnote 5, and here's the
basic policy or conceptual concern. Our point is that
if a section 1983 defendant is absolutely immune for the
constitutional wrong, then you can't read back in time;
a plaintiff can't look back in time and isolate some
other acts as to which they are nonimmune and thereby --
JUSTICE BREYER: I interrupt you right
there. I would say they are not absolutely immune for
the whole constitutional offense. That's the line I'm
trying to draw.
MR. KATYAL: And, Justice Breyer, I'm saying
to do that requires you to read the due process
violation as occurring sometime before the trial, and
then we're back to the free-standing rationale and the
opening up of the due process clause to something this
Court has never, ever accepted.
JUSTICE BREYER: So I agree with you on
that. I agree with you. I won't do it. I'll take it
as one tort. Began before the investigation stage, ends
with conviction. One tort. Now, within that tort we
draw a line and we draw a line based on policy purposes
as to when the prosecutor is absolutely or qualifiedly
immune, and where that line comes is Buckley,
approximately. Okay?
Now, I don't see a conceptual problem with
that and I'm having a hard time finding a practical
problem.
MR. KATYAL: The conceptual problem is that
this Court has been explicit that section 1983 is not
the font of tort law. Rather, you need to isolate a
constitutional violation. Here, the constitutional
violation is the due process clause. That violation
begins, as this Court's decisions in Napue and Pyle say,
when the fabricated evidence is introduced at trial in
order to secure a conviction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And how do you get the
policeman who has fabricated the evidence?
MR. KATYAL: Because the policeman
essentially induces the prosecution at an earlier point
of time and acts through the innocent agent, the
prosecutor, that introduction of evidence at trial is
not something as to which the policeman has any sort of
absolute immunity. And so in Justice Breyer's example
of a prosecutor introducing evidence, that is something
as to which the prosecutor is absolutely immune. That
is where the constitutional violation begins.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What if a prosecutor knows
that it's fabricated evidence? The police officer
fabricates the evidence and says: Mr. Prosecutor, it's
a very bad man; I fabricated the evidence. The
prosecutor introduces it. What result there?
See, your footnote 6 presumes that the
prosecutor doesn't know.
MR. KATYAL: Right.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose he knows?
MR. KATYAL: And if the prosecutor does
know, we don't think that there is a Fifth Amendment due
process violation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Against the policeman?
MR. KATYAL: Against -- against the
policeman in that circumstance, because the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Again, the more aggravated
the tort, the greater the immunity.
MR. KATYAL: And I agree that that seems a
little odd --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're basically saying
that you cannot aid and abet someone who is immune, and
that's just not the law.
MR. KATYAL: No, what I'm saying and what
this Court's decisions have said is that absolute
immunity doesn't exist to protect bad apples. It
reflects a larger interest in protecting judicial
information coming into the judicial process. And if
prosecutors have to worry at trial that every act they
undertake will somehow open up the door to liability,
then they will flinch in the performance of their duties
and not introduce that evidence. And that is the
distinction between the police officer, who is liable,
and the prosecutor, who is -- who is absolutely immune.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: A prosecutor is not
going to flinch when he suspects evidence is perjured or
fabricated? Do you really want to send a message to
police officers that they should not merely flinch but
stop if they have reason to believe that evidence is
fabricated?
MR. KATYAL: Justice Sotomayor, we
absolutely want to send that message. The worry is that
allegations of wrongdoing, as this Court has recognized
in Imbler and Van de Kamp, can -- can supersede that.
And just to give you --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Am I right that none of
the -- neither of the two prosecutors in this case were
sanctioned in any way for their conduct?
MR. KATYAL: I believe that is correct, and
I also believe that no ethics complaints were ever
brought. That is, rather the Respondents went into
Federal court seeking money damages instead of ethics
violations and the like.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you have no reason
to dispute the numerous studies we were provided that
show that as a matter of routine prosecutors are not
sanctioned for improper prosecutorial conduct in the
investigatory stage, are you?
MR. KATYAL: Well, I do think that there is
a debate in the briefs before this Court, including the
brief by 12,400 or so prosecutors that takes the reverse
view. But be that as it may, I think that is a question
for the legislature.
This Court has said repeatedly that those
ethics and disciplinary violations are -- are a
successful deterrent, and there is others as well that
this Court has pointed to that may be available,
including counsel's liability.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you can't have it
both ways and say this is a policy we should take into
account and then when Justice Sotomayor asks you a
question, say: Oh, well, that's for the legislature. I
mean, you're -- it seems to me you're trying to have it
both ways.
MR. KATYAL: Well, with respect to a cause
of action and whether the principles of absolute
immunity apply to this, I think this Court has already
recognized several times that the overriding interest is
protecting the judicial process and not letting
information be chilled and not come in.
To give you a couple of data points, there
were 14.4 million arrests in the year 2006 and 1.1,
approximately, million felony convictions. Respondents'
theory would allow prosecutors in any of those
circumstances to be sued for an alleged fabrication of
evidence, and that's something that could be -- that's
something that's not that hard to envision, since
criminal evidence, unlike civil evidence, is messy. It
often involves cooperation agreements, leniency
agreements and the like, and for that reason it's very
natural, and this Court has recognized that in Imbler,
for the defendant in a criminal case to say: Well, I'm
going to blame the prosecutor; they fabricated evidence,
they made this story up; and -- and then seek civil
liability.
And what this Court has said repeatedly is
that the societal interest suffers. And that is why
it's not about, Justice Kennedy, protecting the bad
apple and someone who exacerbates the harm by carrying
the fabricated evidence through trial. Rather, what
this Court's absolute immunity decisions consistently
reflect is the principle that when someone is
introducing evidence at trial, you don't want to chill
them in the performance of their duties in any way
through the rubric of civil liability.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I don't understand why at
the time of introducing the evidence, the policy
concerns that you've described arise, because we were
criticizing what he did before he introduced the
evidence.
MR. KATYAL: When -- when the evidence is
introduced and it's the prosecutor himself who developed
that evidence, maybe through flipping a witness or
something like that, that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right, and he would know
whether or not it was fabricated.
MR. KATYAL: Well, he would know whether or
not it's fabricated, but the question is whether he
would know that he could insulate himself from an
allegation of wrongdoing. And Respondents' theory,
which allows the due process clause to be some sort of
free-standing right, would permit those suits even at
the earliest stages of an investigation and permit
strike suits even before the criminal process is
underway.
And that, I think, is a fundamental point,
which is this Court, no court has, ever really accepted
the notion that prosecutors can be liable, that there is
a cause of action for --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But haven't we said that
during the investigating stage their conduct is subject
to different rules than during the trial?
MR. KATYAL: For purposes of absolute
immunity, and we agree with that. So, for example,
Justice Stevens, in your Fourth Amendment decision in
1975 on the Seventh Circuit, we agree there is liability
when a prosecutor is, for example, conducting a raid or
something like that. There the constitutional violation
is complete before the trial, and whatever the
prosecutor does at trial --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I just don't see the -- I
don't to see if I can understand the reason why the time
in which the violation is completed, namely after the
trial, goes to the question of whether there is
liability for pretrial conduct.
MR. KATYAL: Well, we think there is no
liability for pretrial conduct, and so long as you agree
with me that the due process clause violation begins
only at the trial --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It was completed at the
trial, but it began when the -- the phony investigation
started.
MR. KATYAL: The -- the text of the due
process clause says the deprivation of life, liberty,
property with -- under due process of law, and due
process under this Court's decisions is what happens at
trial, not before.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Katyal.
Mr. Clement.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
As I listen to Petitioners, I hear two
arguments to why there ought to be liability for the
prosecutor -- rather, for the police officer and not the
prosecutor, and both of those are arguments this Court
has already heard and rejected.
On the immunity issue, the argument
Petitioners make seems to distill to the proposition
that as long as you're suing a prosecutor for injuries
inflicted at trial, the prosecutor ought to have
absolute immunity.
Now, that's not a crazy theory of immunity.
It's exactly the theory of immunity that the Seventh
Circuit adopted in the Buckley decision and this Court
reversed, unanimously as to the press conference and by
a majority opinion with respect to pretrial
investigatory conduct involving fabrication. If that
sounds familiar, it should. That's the conduct that's
at issue here.
So the absolute immunity issue in this case
was decided in Buckley. Now --
JUSTICE ALITO: When the issue, when the --
the claim is based on the evaluation of the truthfulness
of a witness who eventually testifies at trial, where's
the line to be drawn between the investigative stage and
the prosecutorial stage?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think, Justice Alito,
the place to draw the line is the place this Court drew
the line in Buckley, which is probable cause. And
before probable cause, when prosecutors are engaging in
investigatory functions, I don't think we want them
shaping the witness for trial. I think we want them
trying to figure out who actually committed this crime
and who would we have probable cause to perhaps initiate
process against.
JUSTICE ALITO: What concerns me about your
argument is the -- is a real fear that it will
eviscerate Imbler. Now, maybe you can convince me that
it will not have that effect, but as the Solicitor
General argued at the end of his argument, a very -- in
the typical criminal case, the witnesses are not
John Q. Public with -- who have never engaged in any
wrongful activity.
A typical witness is -- well, let's take the
case of the prosecution of a -- a white -- of the CEO of
a huge corporation for insider trading or some other
white-collar violation. And the chief witness against
this person is, let's say, the CFO of this company, who
when initially questioned by law enforcement officials
and investigatory officials, made -- made statements
denying any participation in any wrongdoing, but
eventually changed his story and testifies against the
CEO at trial in exchange for consideration in a plea
deal.
Now, your argument, in a case like that --
or you could change the facts, make it an organized
crime case, make it a prosecution of a drug kingpin
who's testifying -- the witness against him is a
lower-ranking person in the organization who has a
criminal record, maybe has previously committed perjury,
has made numerous false statements, is subject to
impeachment. In all of those cases a claim could be
brought against the prosecutor.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Alito, let me
try to answer it this way, which is you mentioned both
organized crime cases and insider trading cases. Well,
I think if there is any circuit in which those kind of
claims are going to be brought it's probably the Second
Circuit. The Second Circuit has lived with this rule
since the year 2000 and the Zahrey decision that's
already been mentioned. There has not been a floodgate
opening, there's not been a torrent of these claims.
There's been a trickle. They remain very hard to
allege, and the allegations here --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I mean, that might be
true as an empirical matter, but I don't understand why
it would be hard to allege.
MR. CLEMENT: What would you --
JUSTICE ALITO: What would you have to
allege to get by Iqbal or to get by summary judgment?
You allege that the testimony at trial was false and
that the prosecutor knew that it was false. And in
support of that you have prior inconsistent statements
by the witness, and you may have the evidence that was
introduced by the defense at trial that is inconsistent
with that. You have a triable issue.
MR. CLEMENT: I don't --
JUSTICE ALITO: You certainly get by
12(b)(6).
MR. CLEMENT: As I hear your hypothetical, I
don't think so, because the thing that's missing is the
allegation that the prosecutors fabricated that
evidence. This isn't a case about coaching a witness.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but what --
what if there's an acquittal? Then you have at least a
jury not believing the evidence, and that also is strong
support for at least supporting an allegation. He
fabricated it; nobody believed it when it was presented
at trial.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, two things, Your Honor.
One is obviously without the fabrication allegations
that take place during the investigatory stage, you
would be protected by Imbler.
Now, in the acquittal situations, this Court
doesn't have a case directly on point. But if I read
the Hartman decision, for example, Hartman v. Moore,
and apply it to this context, I assume that in the
context of an acquittal if you tried to bring a claim
like this, this Court would interpret through the common
law the -- a malicious prosecution type element that you
would have to satisfy.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why is it difficult to
allege fabrication? The -- the allegation is that at
point A this witness denied that the defendant did
anything wrong, and then at point B the defendant told
an entirely different story after having received from
the government a plea deal that promises no prosecution
and entry into the witness protection program or
something like that. That certainly is sufficient
evidence to -- of fabrication, is it not?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Alito, let me
say this. First of all, you are going to have to
pinpoint those kind of allegations pre-probable cause,
which is not going to be the case in a lot of cases.
Second of all, I mean, this Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know what you mean
by that.
MR. CLEMENT: In -- in the typical case,
if -- if the witness perhaps in the first instance comes
up with one testimony and later comes up in -- with a
different story later, the question for purposes of
absolute immunity is going to be, did all of the conduct
that you're alleging, the fabrication, did all of it
take place before probable cause attached? And in a lot
of cases prosecutors don't even get involved until after
probable cause, until after there have been arrests,
something like that. And in those cases --
JUSTICE ALITO: That's an entirely false
picture of the way any sophisticated prosecution is
handled today, completely false. You want -- the
prosecutor may not know whether there's probable cause
until the prosecutor interviews the witness.
MR. CLEMENT: And, again --
JUSTICE ALITO: And so then you have to go
back and determine whether there was -- if there wasn't
probable cause before the interview, then there is
liability. But if there was probable cause before the
interview, then there isn't liability.
MR. CLEMENT: I think if I understand your
hypothetical, the question would actually be whether
there was probable cause before the re-interview,
because if at the point --
JUSTICE ALITO: Before the re-interview,
because the prosecutor doesn't want to take the case to
the grand jury before looking this witness in the eye
and seeing whether this -- this guy who's got a lot of
impeachment baggage is -- is a -- is a credible witness.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, two things, Justice
Alito. First of all, if you have all -- if you had the
interview and the re-interview before probable cause and
you have the allegations that it was done for the avowed
purpose of depriving the person of their liberty, then
you would, I think, apply Iqbal, and you would ask under
all the circumstances of that case whether it's a
plausible allegation.
And this Court is obviously in a better
position than I am to say how it would apply Iqbal in
those kind of cases. But what I can tell you is that
for nearly a decade the Second Circuit has had this
rule. Now, the Second Circuit is the circuit that
brought you Iqbal. So for that same decade they did not
have the rule of Iqbal, and yet they didn't have a
torrent of these claims.
So, I think going forward, if you recognize
these claims --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How -- how do you --
I mean, we hear that type of argument every time,
because there is usually a circuit conflict here, and
you look at one circuit and say the world hasn't fallen.
But you have no idea how many of these claims are
asserted and dismissed at an early stage or -- or
whatever.
You're saying, what, that there haven't been
many Second Circuit opinions on this question?
MR. CLEMENT: I think if you look at
reported, both unpublished and published Second Circuit
decisions at the district court level and the court of
appeals level, you would find very few cases that even
cite Zahrey. I think it's something like maybe 17 I
think is what we found.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think there
will be -- do you think there will be more if we agree
with your theory?
MR. CLEMENT: In the Second Circuit? I
don't think so. I think it will be the same number in
the Second Circuit.
Now, in the Seventh Circuit that has lived
with the Buckley remand rule, I suppose there will now
be a couple of dozen cases there. But I do think it's
revealing that the circuit that has certainly the kind
of cases that Justice Alito was dealing with, has not
had a flood of these cases. As far as I'm aware, the
U.S. attorney's offices in that circuit have not had to
rework the way they do business in those circuits, and I
do think that these are claims that are going to be
difficult to allege.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it's also
you don't really know, right? In other words, we're
concerned about the chilling effect on the prosecutors.
We don't know what the impact of the Second Circuit's
decision has been on the prosecutors.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Your Honor, we don't
know for sure. We don't know either way, because either
way this Court is going to adopt a clear rule. What I
can say is at least I'm pointing to empirical evidence
in a circuit that has lived with this rule for a decade.
That seems to me a better empirical basis to go on than
absolutely nothing.
But let me give you another example, which
is this Court a couple of years ago decided a decision
called Hartman v. Moore. Hartman v. Moore sort of
recognized that there was a tort called, I think,
retaliatory inducement to prosecute.
Now, in footnote 8 this Court recognized
that actually you could sue a prosecutor for retaliatory
inducement to prosecute if you focused on the
investigatory activities. That's exactly the same basic
theory we have here, which is you focus on the
investigatory activities of a prosecutor and say that
there is a valid 1983 claim.
Now, again, to my knowledge there have not
been a flood of Hartman claims brought against
prosecutors. I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- what is the
basis for the 1983 claim without the submission at
trial?
MR. CLEMENT: Without the submission at
trial -- I mean, it would depend, I suppose, on the
circumstances. You could have, certainly, a Fourth
Amendment --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you know I'm
not talking about the Fourth Amendment violation, which
is complete whether there's a trial or not.
MR. CLEMENT: Well -- and then maybe I just
need a concrete hypothetical. Let's say -- let's say --
let me -- let me provide one. Suppose that there was
this -- the prosecutor put on this fabricated evidence
at trial, and then the -- the whole case sort of
unraveled because the system actually worked the way
it's supposed to. On cross-examination the witness
cracked and it became clear that there was this
conspiracy to use perjured evidence.
Now, at that point -- I mean, I suppose the
government's theory would be because you never deprived
the person of their liberty, the knowing use by the
prosecutor of perjured testimony at trial does not
violate the due process clause.
But I hope that's not the rule. I mean, I
hope that in a Mooney case, if you bring the -- make a
Mooney violation against somebody who is actually
guilty, so you knowingly use perjured testimony against
somebody that's -- that's guilty, so if you did a
harmless error analysis, you would say, well, the use of
the perjured testimony really didn't deprive the person
of their liberty because they were otherwise --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What's -- what's -- what's
your best authority for the proposition that there's
liability in the case the Chief Justice put? What's
your best case?
MR. CLEMENT: I -- I -- I'm not sure I have
a best case for that, Justice Kennedy. I mean, let
me -- let me give you what I think is a very good case
that illustrates a similar principle, but I -- I will --
I will be candid that I think this is an extrapolation
from Mooney, but a very sort of clear extrapolation from
Mooney.
My best case in some ways I think is Malley,
because their proposition seems to be that -- this is
the other argument you have heard and rejected -- is
that if there's an absolutely immune act in the causal
chain, then that somehow means that there is no
violation.
Think about who was sued in the Malley. It
was the police officers. What did the police officers
do? They procured an invalid arrest warrant. Now, did
their actions independent of the absolute immune act of
the magistrate injure the plaintiffs? No. Without the
magistrate issuing the warrant, there was no arrest,
there's no search, there's no injury to the plaintiffs.
So we allow in our system somebody to bring
a constitutional tort claim, even though there's an
absolutely immune act in the causal chain.
The lower court in Malley actually accepted
exactly this argument, that if you have any absolutely
immune act in the causal chain that breaks it off. This
Court rejected it and was frankly fairly dismissive,
dismissed it in the footnote, footnote 7 of the opinion.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You will have to refresh
my memory. Wasn't that a Fourth Amendment violation
ultimately?
MR. CLEMENT: It was a Fourth Amendment
violation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that -- so that's
not --
MR. CLEMENT: No, I think it illustrates the
principle, which is you don't have to have a completed
constitutional violation in your 1983 action. I mean,
Malley illustrates that principle, but so does the text
of -- of section 1983, frankly. Section 1983 doesn't
force you to have a completed constitutional violation.
It provides liability if you subject someone to a
constitutional violation or cause them to be subjected
to a constitutional violation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The difference here is that
the -- the absolutely immune act which follows the --
the unlawful act is -- is an absolutely immune act by
the very actor who performed the earlier act that --
that you say induces liability. And so the argument is,
what's the use of giving him liability later on if -- if
you can simply drag him into litigation by -- by
alleging that he at an earlier stage committed a
violation?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the difference. I
mean, to me that's the -- the crux of this, that it is
the same actor who has absolute liability whom you're
trying to get on the basis of -- of earlier action.
MR. CLEMENT: Well --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's the reason the rule
seems perverse.
MR. CLEMENT: What's that?
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's the very reason the
rule they're arguing for seems perverse.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I would ask -- I would
ask both of you to go back and read two things, and I
would particularly like Justice Scalia to go back and
read your separate opinion in Burns. Because in Burns
you confronted just this issue. You conceptualized what
happens at the warrant stage as a variant of malicious
prosecution and you said: Now, could a prosecutor, sort
of as kind of a complaining witness in that context,
procure a warrant that they were subsequently involved
in? And you said: I don't see any reason why not. I
think you got it right there.
The other thing I would ask you to look at
is footnote 8 of the Hartman v. Moore decision, because
there you were dealing with a retaliatory prosecution
claim. Now, the Court's opinion was very careful to
say, you know, it's really not a retaliation -- a
retaliatory prosecution claim; what it is is a
retaliatory inducement to prosecute case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you cannot rely
on anything that goes on at the trial to establish the
due process violation, what do you rely on to establish
the violation?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Mr. Chief Justice --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess the question
is where is it complete, or do you say it doesn't have
to be a complete violation?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I guess what I would do,
Mr. Chief Justice, is try to take issue with your
premise, which is that we can't advert to the absolute
immune act at all. Of course we can. I mean, this
isn't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, let's say that
you -- let's say that you can't because we read Imbler
as conferring absolute immunity on what goes on at the
trial. And if you can't advert to that, you don't have
a constitutional violation, right?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I would still say we do,
but please let me try to take one more crack at the
premise, which is Imbler is not a use immunity case and
this Court has rejected the proposition that just
because you're absolutely immune for an act there's no
evidentiary use of that in going after conduct that was
earlier in the causal chain.
This Court specifically confronted that in a
case called Dennis v. Sparks that was with, you know,
the granddaddy of them all, judicial immunity, and said
even the judge's actions could be proved up as part of a
tort action. So there is no use immunity for --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Against -- against
the judge?
MR. CLEMENT: It wasn't against the judge,
but I -- but with all due respect, I don't think that
matters. And I also think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's the
distinction here in this case, isn't it?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, but -- but it's a
distinction without a difference. It's a distinction
this Court confronted in -- in Hartman in footnote 8.
It's a distinction Justice Scalia confronted. And also,
the consequences of accepting their view is to really
turn all of your absolute immunity cases into a fool's
errand.
I mean, think about Kalina. I mean, the
supporting affidavit wasn't the thing that inflicted
injury. Now, the thing that inflicted injury were the
two documents that the supporting affidavit supported,
the warrant and the information. Now, it would have
made no sense for this Court to say, well, there is only
qualified immunity for the supporting affidavit, so
let's send this back to the lower court, if you couldn't
even get into evidence the fact that there was an
information or a warrant.
So too in the Malley case, of course you
can use -- now it's a different -- it's a different
person. In Kalina -- Kalina, it's the same person.
Or take a look at Burns, for example. In
Burns the prosecutor's advice to the police officer,
that's not what injured the plaintiff in that case. It
was the warrant that was eventually procured.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In terms of the
chilling impact on the prosecutor, what difference does
it make whether it's at trial or pretrial for use at
trial?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think it makes all the
difference in the world in the sense that if -- if they
know that everything they do at trial is going to be
protected, those functions, which is the basis of this
Court's functional approach to absolute immunity, are
going to be protected. Now, if they're going to be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it won't be protected.
They won't have that assurance, because when they --
when they produce evidence at trial, oh, yeah, I guess
the production at trial will be protected, but you're --
you're telling us that they can go back and say, ah, but
you got that evidence in a bad manner, and therefore we
can sue you, not for introducing it at trial, but for
fabricating it before trial.
I -- I don't see that there is much of a
difference as far as the deterrent effect upon the
prosecutor is concerned.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think there is going
to be an effect on the deterrent effect on the
prosecutor pretrial, which is they will be procured. I
mean, think about the contrary incentive you're --
you're creating. Suppose you're a prosecutor. You've
participated in the misconduct before trial. You now
have the decision to make: Okay, I was -- I was
complicit in the fabrication of this perjured evidence;
should I put it on into evidence? Well, let's see. If
I don't put it on into evidence and I come clean now,
I'm actually liable for the arrest and all the pretrial
detention. If I actually introduce it into evidence
now, I'm scot-free.
JUSTICE BREYER: There's a different
tendency, which I would say this is a slight fluke, what
you're describing. I'm more worried about what Justice
Alito brought up, that, other things being equal, I
think it's probably a good thing to get prosecutors
involved in the questioning process. That -- that has a
kind of check on the police.
And the concern I'd have is that the --this
will discourage the prosecutors from becoming involved
in the witness -- witness questioning process, at least
not before the police are well on the way. And that is
a very negative incentive, I would think.
So what is your most pro-prosecutorial rule
that you could live with that will in fact minimize the
risk of that kind of disincentive? Now, are you just
going to say, well, Buckley?
MR. CLEMENT: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: Or is there something -- I
mean, I can see Buckley with the, you know, probable
cause. It turns on and off as you're talking to the
witness. First what he says, you have the probable
cause; then you don't; then you do; then you don't. I
mean, I -- I'm not -- I just want you to give your best
thought to this problem and tell me what is the most
safe rule that will allow you to win your case?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Breyer, I mean,
I would say that there is no reason for this Court to
disturb the line it drew in Buckley. Now I could,
because of this case --
JUSTICE BREYER: We have amicus briefs here
that give us a lot of reason. They say -- they say it's
very discouraging to, you know, AUSAs or DAs going in
and talking to the witnesses with the police.
MR. CLEMENT: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: And they say they do it in
Chicago, I think. In other places, they do it a lot.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I mean, another thing
presumably, Justice Breyer, you want to encourage is
having the police officers come to the prosecutors and
get legal advice about what they're doing. And this
Court squarely confronted that question in Burns and
said the advice-giving function, which is a function
only a prosecutor, only a lawyer anyways, can perform --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, could you answer
Justice Breyer's question, which I -- I think raises a
-- a critical point in terms of Justice Alito's examples
of talking to the witness. Why isn't that at some
point -- I think in Buckley, the "judicial phase." Why
is this the judicial phase?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kennedy, let me
respond. Let me say why I don't think I can really
improve on the probable cause line. I mean, in this
case, the police officers and the prosecutors were
involved in this from the get-go.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, but probable cause
doesn't work because you have -- you have probable cause
once you fabricate the evidence.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's circular.
MR. CLEMENT: No, I don't think so. I think
for the purposes of evaluating when there's probable
cause, you have to eliminate the fabricated evidence,
and so I think that you evaluate probable cause, but
here's why I think it's the right line, Because think
about the prosecutor's special function.
If you don't have probable cause to arrest
any individual for a crime, then the function the police
officers ought to be performing is one of a
truth-seeking function and that is a classic police
investigatory function.
Now, the moment they have probable cause,
I'm willing to listen to the argument that at that point
they shift roles, and at that point they're not looking
at the evidence the way the police officer is, just to
find out whodunit; but they're looking at it to say,
well I have a job to do, I have to put a case on, and,
you know, this person says what they say, and, you know,
there's some problems with that and the jury's not going
to believe that, so let me talk to him some more.
That's why I think the probable cause line
is not only administrable, but it makes sense in this
context.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the prosecutor
isn't sure there's probable cause and he calls -- calls
in the accountant, the CFO, and really doesn't begin to
believe his story, so he starts probing and finally he
gets the CFO to change his story with the plea -- plea
bargain. Would that be part of the judicial process?
Or is that still clearly investigatory?
MR. CLEMENT: I think at the point -- if the
interview begins and he doesn't think he has probable
cause, I think that that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, he's trying to find
out. That's what --
MR. CLEMENT: Of course he is trying to find
out. But he's -- but he's not trying to find out if
there's probable cause necessarily to identify a
particular suspect. What he's trying to do, is there
probable cause to arrest anyone? And that's exactly the
question a police officer asks every single day.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, also, you're making
me more worried because I think, if 85 percent of all
the defendants -- or 90 percent plead guilty, it might
be a highly desirable thing to get prosecutors involved
in the truth-discovering process, I mean, so that they
don't just see themselves as the job of -- well, we're
going to take somebody, put them in jail.
Maybe -- maybe that's a reason for pushing
it back a little bit, this -- this line.
MR. CLEMENT: Well -- you know, I'm not sure
what the logical place to push it back any further is,
and I think -- you know --
JUSTICE BREYER: Where have you got it now?
You've got it as when there is probable cause for
believing that someone has committed a crime?
MR. CLEMENT: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Someone? So it's
someone -- needn't be the particular person they
eventually indict?
MR. CLEMENT: That's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Uh-huh.
MR. CLEMENT: And let me say this, Justice
Breyer, I mean, I know you don't want to talk about
Burns, but I'd like to, just for a second, because I
think it's a very similar policy concern.
As a policy matter, sure, we want
prosecutors to get -- to give advice to police officers,
but qualified immunity is not insignificant protection,
and think about that, I mean, the incentives you're
creating for the same anomaly that the Court recognized
in Buckley. The incentive would really --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we thought it
was -- I'm sorry. Why don't you finish your answer?
MR. CLEMENT: I just wanted to say the
incentive would really be perverse. Under Burns, if the
police -- if the police officer comes to the prosecutor
and says -- you know, we want to fabricate evidence to
frame it, can we do it? And the prosecutor says, yes,
you can do that, go ahead; there's qualified immunity.
Now, if the prosecutor says, go ahead and
let me help, there would somehow be absolute immunity.
I mean, that is really an anomalous result, that it's
the n anomaly that caused this Court in Buckley to draw
the line at probable cause.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I was going to
suggest in response to your point that -- you know,
qualified immunity is really significant. Of course, it
is, but we've recognized, in a number of contexts, in
the judicial area, for example, that it's -- it's not
enough.
We have also recognized that in the
prosecutorial area, and trying to draw the line where
you do -- I think this was one of the points Justice
Alito was making, is that, sometimes, you're
investigating and preparing your case at the same time.
You don't just sit back and say, I'm -- I'm
just going to look and see what I can find. You have
particular areas. The prosecution requires you to show
four things, So you are looking at those four things.
You are preparing your case, and you're investigating.
MR. CLEMENT: And, again, the Court
addressed exactly this Court in the -- exactly that
issue in the Buckley decision and said, sure -- you
know, from -- with the benefit of hindsight, you can
sort of retrospectively look and make anything in the
investigatory stage part of -- and part and parcel of
the prosecution.
And I don't think that was something that
this Court saw as a reason not to draw a clean line
that's consistent with the functional approach. It's
consistent, not just with Buckley, but with Burns and
with Kalina and with a whole host of this Court's
decisions.
JUSTICE ALITO: In -- in answer to Justice
Breyer's question, would -- would it be a -- would it be
practical and conceptually correct to draw the line at
the stage at which the prosecutor is interviewing
witnesses to evaluate credibility?
So, at that stage, the prosecutorial
function has begun and absolute immunity would kick in.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, if I could add, I mean,
I suppose I might be able --
JUSTICE ALITO: Not on whether there is
probable cause because probable cause is -- is
evanescent. It comes, and it goes. It is -- it is --
it is inextricably intertwined with what the prosecutor
is doing in questioning the witness.
MR. CLEMENT: And let me say this: If I
could add a couple of words, I think we could probably
live with that line, which is, if the prosecutor is
interviewing those witnesses with an eye towards
credibility for use at trial, I mean, that's a line
that, I think, would be, I think, probably pretty
consistent with probable cause, but something that we
could live with, but --
JUSTICE ALITO: But with a line toward
investigating credibility for use at a trial, which
is -- which is, at that point, foreordained, but, if the
evaluation is being done for the purpose of determining
whether there should be a trial, then, no. That's your
answer?
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I mean, I worry that
words are being put in my mouth. I would say that, if
the prosecutor is interviewing the witness for the
purpose of judging their credibility at trial, then
that's something for which you may be able to sort of
tweak the line on Buckley and say that's covered.
I actually think it won't make any
difference because I think that should only be happening
after probable cause. If I could --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, your approach,
then, encourages prosecutors to be trigger happy.
They're prosecuting right now because they know, then,
that everything else, they have absolute immunity, so --
you know, shoot first and ask questions later.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, shoot first -- you mean
go to an impartial magistrate and try to get somebody
arrested or --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, just begin the
formulation. I'm -- I'm starting to prosecute this
person, rather than saying, let's look, let's
investigate, let's interview, and then decide who we're
going to prosecute.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I suppose --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In Justice Alito's
hypothetical, you've got a CFO, you can -- you know,
you've probably got probable cause to go after him as
well, but you want to begin interviewing him, to see if
he's going to flip in your case against the CEO.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, if you have probable
cause, then I think you're on the other side of the
Buckley line, and that's an objective determination, and
I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you've got --
you've got to make that decision early in the process,
rather than later.
MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think it's -- I'm not
sure it's a decision you have to make. I think it's
actually something that would be evaluated objectively
after the fact, and I think the way that this Court
should approach this case is neither of the parties
before you have asked this Court to overturn Buckley.
I wouldn't do it under those circumstances,
but, of course, it's worth adding that, if you were
going to overturn Buckley, then the place to probably
start would be to go back to first principles, and if
you're going to go back to first principles, then what
you're going to find is that there was no common law
support at all for absolute immunity.
And I wouldn't think that this Court was
particularly interested in coming up with implied
immunities that aren't in the statute and had no basis
at the common law, and that's why I think some of the
Justices that have looked at this as an original matter
have tended to be quite reluctant in recognizing
absolute immunity because it lacks support in the text
and it lacks support at the common law.
So we're -- we're happy with the lines that
this Court has already drawn. But if the Court's going
to go back to first principles, well, let's go back to
first principles and look at -- the at the statute
Congress passed in 1871.
That statute did not provide any immunities,
and I do think, as we say in the brief, this is a case
where it's important not to lose the forest for the
trees because this is a statute was passed -- passed in
1871. This is one of the great civil rights statutes.
Is it really plausible to think that the
Congress that passed this statute didn't want to provide
a remedy in the circumstances before the Court today? I
think it's clear, from this Court's cases -- there may
not be a case that lines up all the dots exactly, but I
think it's clear, from this Court's cases, that the
police officer that engages in this misconduct has
committed a grave, grave constitutional violation and
ought to be liable.
I think the prosecutor who engages in the
pretrial misconduct and then doesn't participate in the
trial is just as liable as that police officer, and I
can't think of a single reason why the only reason a
prosecutor would get absolute immunity is, if they not
only participated in the pretrial misconduct, but
completed the scheme by committing further misconduct at
trial.
For all those reasons, we think the Court
should affirm. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Clement.
Mr. Sanders, you have five -- five minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN SANDERS
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. SANDERS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
We have four main points.
Beginning with the Second Circuit's decision
in Zahrey and subsequent cases in the Second Circuit,
have significantly cut back on the meaning of Zahrey.
The Wray decision, which we discussed in our reply
brief, the Gonzalez decision, which we discussed in our
opening brief, have not allowed for this kind of
continuous liability for a prosecutor.
They have made very clear, particularly the
Gonzalez decision, that when it is a prosecutor's
actions before a judge advocating on behalf of the
State, that are responsible for a deprivation of
liberty, in that situation, absolute immunity applies.
I think it's important to understand the
consequences --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what does that
prove? What does that prove? I don't understand why
you bring that up because it shows that the fact that
there aren't many cases, only 17 in the -- in the Second
Circuit, it doesn't mean anything because the Second
Circuit is not applying as liberal a rule as your
opponent suggests.
Is that --
MR. SANDERS: No, Your Honor. I think it's
to -- I think it's to say that the Zahrey decision has
not had the kind of impact and has not been applied in a
way that respondents are asking for it to be applied.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. That's -- that's just
what I said, and, therefore -- and had it been applied
that way, there would have been more than 17 cases in
the Second Circuit.
MR. SANDERS: I'm not sure I understand the
question.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. SANDERS: The -- I think it's important
to understand the consequences of affirming the courts
below, either on the basis of the Zahrey theory or on
the freestanding due process theory offered by
respondents.
It would work a radical change in the law of
immunity because it would mean that far more wrongful
conviction claims against prosecutors would go forward
under only qualified immunity.
That is the inevitable consequence of
affirming the courts below in this case. These cases
are not difficult, as Justice Alito said, to plead,
particularly because, in most of these sorts of cases,
most of the discovery will have been done during the
post-conviction review process.
And so there will be plenty of -- plenty of
grounds for a plaintiff to allege a plausible violation
during the investigative process and survive a motion to
dismiss or survive summary judgment, even if,
ultimately, that comes to nothing, the consequence would
be to hold prosecutors to inconsistent standards of
liability, qualified immunity or absolute immunity,
based simply on the allegations in a complaint,
something this Court has specifically said is -- is not
appropriate and should not be --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I want, before you're
finished, to get a clear picture of your view of the
dimensions of the claim because you rely heavily on the
trial part. Everything proceeds as it was alleged to
have proceeded in this case, except that just before the
trial begins, Harris comes forward and said it was all a
pack of lies, and so there is no trial.
MR. SANDERS: Uh-huh.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is anyone in this picture
liable? The defendants have been incarcerated for some
time, but when it blows up, they're let out. No trial,
but everything else, the same.
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, I believe there
would be no due process liability. There might be two
independent grounds for liability under some Fourth
Amendment malicious prosecution theory, which is not at
issue in this case, and possibly under State law
remedies, as Justice Kennedy and Justice Thomas
indicated in their concurrence in Albright, we do not go
to the Federal constitution's Due Process Clause unless
we're sure that the plaintiffs have exhausted their
possible remedies under State law. In this case, Iowa
State law provides a cause of action for malicious
prosecution.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said -- I think your
position is that due process begins when trial is
underway, and before that due process doesn't enter the
picture?
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, I believe that
this Court's decisions make clear that due process
applies to the judicial process; that is, the filing of
charges and the later conduct of the prosecuting --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but what about the
pretrial detention? Isn't that a deprivation of
liberty?
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, it would be, but
that would be Fourth Amendment territory.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Why would it be Fourth
Amendment? Why isn't it Fourteenth Amendment right on
the nose? They're deprived of liberty without due
process of law.
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, this Court --
seven justices in this Court's decision in Albright
agreed that there was no due process cause of action for
the wrongful institution of criminal proceedings, that
in that case there may be some sort of Fourth Amendment
claim. There may be some sort of State law claim under
Parrot v. Taylor, but I have not --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But that case talked about
the institution of prosecution, not the deprivation of
liberty during pretrial detention, which is a different
matter.
MR. SANDERS: Your Honor, I believe the
Court's Fourth Amendment jurisprudence would still
indicate that that is a concern of the Fourth Amendment,
not the Due Process Clause, and that pursuant to Paul v.
Davis and Parrot v. Taylor, there may indeed be some
sort of State law cause of action for defamation or loss
of status, but that there is no support for a Federal
due process claim.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Counsel. The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
61:10 61:4 aid 21:7 anomalous 9:24 27:3
6:11,13 activity 11:11 28:9 29:12,23 17:6 29:13 arrests 13:22
9:2 16:9 28:16 30:2,11 31:10 46:13 50:2 23:17 32:9
20:8 actor 16:16 31:19 32:11,17 51:18 52:20 asked 54:11
23:11 39:15,24 33:1,7 34:24 answered 9:17 asking 57:14
25:18 acts 11:7 18:21 44:23 50:23 answering 7:3 asks 17:6 23:6
32:5 20:5 51:18 52:2,15 anyways 46:12 48:19
39:24 actual 6:8,23 58:8 apart 9:11 asserted 13:2,25
42:17 add 51:25 52:8 Alito's 46:15 appeals 34:11 34:4
50:10 adding 54:13 53:19 APPEARAN... asserting 9:23
53:8 addressed 7:11 allegation 25:5 1:15 assisting 11:4
55:25 14:7 51:6 30:15,20 31:11 apple 24:9 assume 31:5
58:18 administrable 33:13 apples 21:11 assuming 14:9
12:10 adopt 35:12 29:22 30:24 57:16 assurance 43:22
16:11 adopted 27:12 31:21 33:9 applies 56:25 attached 32:7
18:18 advert 41:10,16 58:19 60:2 attorney 5:8
19:12 advice 43:8 46:9 allege 29:22,25 apply 15:12,13 attorney's 35:1
21:19 49:21 30:3,4 31:11 23:12 31:5 AUSAs 46:1
35:16 advice-giving 35:4 58:13 33:11,15 authority 37:15
46:11 alleged 4:16 6:5 applying 57:8 available 23:2
41:22 advocating 17:5 23:20 approach 43:19 avowed 33:9
38:16 affect 5:4 alleging 32:6 54:10 a.m 1:14 3:2
8:25 16:2 allows 25:6 area 50:18,21 back 18:19,20
15:18,19 58:7 13:19,19,25 argue 4:10 40:8,9 43:1,25
16:10 agent 20:5 20:22 25:20 argued 28:13 49:3,5 50:25
38:3,9 aggravated 21:2 36:13,15 38:22 arguing 40:6 54:15,16 55:4
39:13 ago 8:22 35:18 38:24 59:12 argument 1:13 55:4 56:16
agree 6:18 14:4 60:8,10,10,17 2:2,10 3:4,7 background
19:7,8 21:4 60:25 61:1 5:19 16:21 14:16
48:20 49:7,11 22:7 24:2 causing 9:25 circular 47:3
27:21 49:15,17 27:18 28:14,18 central 16:16 circumstance
Breyer's 20:8 29:3,5 30:16 CEO 28:18 29:1 21:1
brief 6:20 12:22 33:2,12 36:21 certainly 30:11 6:21 23:20
35:15 briefed 13:21 41:20 42:1,11 CFO 28:21 48:4 circumvented
39:25 briefs 22:20 43:4,9 45:19 48:6 53:20 9:4
54:21 45:24 45:23 46:22 chain 38:4,15,18 cite 34:12
Briggs 16:13 47:20 50:24 41:24 cited 16:4
brought 22:11 58:7 59:1,13 changed 28:25 24:15 55:11
36:5 44:23 61:8,9 check 45:1 13:11 27:21
26:8 4:3,24 8:11 29:10,14,14 46:5 36:3,8 38:14
59:2,22 16:6,7,12 17:2 31:22 32:8,10 chief 3:3,9 7:22 40:21,23 58:24
2:4,6,9,12 34:21 45:10,13 55:15,17 56:15 30:17 33:24 33:21,23 34:3
16:22 45:22 46:17 57:6,17 58:7,9 34:14 35:5 35:3 36:5 58:4
56:11,23 49:25 50:12 causal 38:3,15 36:7,14 37:16 classic 12:23
21:24 54:1,11,14 cause 4:6 8:8 41:13 42:5,10 clause 19:5,22
47:23 Burns 40:10,10 10:5,7 11:1 43:11 50:1,14 25:6 26:8,14
59:9,25 43:7,8 46:10 12:9 14:15 53:5,13,19 37:5 59:16
49:18 50:4 15:18 17:4 54:3 56:6,12 61:2
32:7,9,14,19 chilled 23:15 clear 4:25 13:1,7
called 35:19,20 46:21,24,25 circuit 8:24 9:1 37:23 55:15,17
42:1 47:6,7,10,15 10:4,22 25:21 56:21 58:23
candid 37:22 48:16,18 49:8 29:17 33:17,18 clearly 7:4 48:8
18:11,13,15,17 constitutional 54:13 29:5,14 47:11
34:8,17 19:15,18 4:6 11:23 court 1:1,13 49:9
36:10,17 conceptualized 18:19,24 19:21 3:10,17 4:25 criminal 23:23
38:24 40:11 19:21 20:11 7:7,11 8:22,25 24:2 25:9
40:1,4
41:4,8,18 51:20 39:5,8,10,11 14:6 16:2,3,3 60:16
43:15
45:11,20 45:2 49:19 constitution's 17:6,23 18:4 criticizing 24:19
47:2 61:1 59:16 19:6,19 22:3 cross-examina...
48:9,14 concerned 7:15 context 18:5 22:12,20,24 36:23
44:6 31:5,6 40:14 23:2,12 24:1,6 crux 39:23
51:5,25 concerns 16:5 48:1 25:12,12 26:24 curiae 1:20 2:7
53:10 24:18 28:9 contexts 50:17 27:3,12 28:1 16:23
54:6
concurrence continuous 33:14 34:10,10 cut 56:16
46:8 conduct 9:7 22:8 contributes 41:25 42:14,24 D 1:22 2:8 3:1
32:2,3 26:5,7 27:15 convict 17:15 46:10 49:24 damages 22:12
52:4 27:16 32:5 conviction 3:14 50:12 51:5,6 DAs 46:1
59:2 41:23 60:3 4:18,22 5:24 51:13 54:9,11 data 23:16
15:20 25:22 11:15 12:15 56:4 58:20 day 48:19
39:19 conferring convictions 57:23 58:7 dealing 4:15
55:19 41:15 23:18 Court's 4:9 34:24 40:20
31:7 40:11 41:25 23:24 17:2 19:23 35:14
55:1 42:14,15 46:10 corporation 21:10 24:11 deception 10:19
40:14 55:13 8:21 11:25 55:3,15,17 35:18
consequences counsel 16:19 53:1 15:15 17:2,20
41:6,7 consideration counsel's 23:3 cracked 36:24 29:18 31:4
39:4,8 consistent 51:14 couple 23:16 creating 44:11 44:13 51:7
51:15 52:13 34:22 35:18 49:24 54:4,7 56:14
24:11 course 17:16 52:11,16,24 57:12 60:14
34:10 10:12 11:3,7 drawing 18:9 ends 19:9 24:23 30:7,16
60:1 25:17 31:14 drawn 27:23 enforcement 30:19 31:18
24:2 35:4 58:8 due 3:18 4:11,23 55:21 47:1,6,18 50:6
dimensions 9:11 12:13 engaging 28:3 evidentiary
59:6 direct 11:9 17:7,9,10 19:2 entirely 31:14 eviscerate 28:11
46:1 60:11,15 61:2 ESQ 1:16,18,22 example 20:8
discussed 12:21 dupes 5:8 essentially 20:4 35:17 43:7
11:23 disincentive 24:14 ET 1:4,7 examples 46:15
26:14 45:9 D.C 1:9,19,22 ethics 22:10,12 exceptions 3:16
60:5,21 disjunction 5:1 22:25 exchange 29:1
60:11 dismissed 34:4 earlier 3:19 evaluated 54:8 8:9 9:25
disputing 14:10 early 34:4 54:4 event 17:18 explicit 19:19
42:13,15 35:7 44:5,8,8 evidence 4:4 5:8 eye 33:3 52:10
disturb 45:22 either 4:20 7:14,23,24 8:1 F
doing 46:9 52:6 element 11:16 11:2,16,19 fabricated 6:7
dots 55:16 31:8 13:5,5 14:25 19:24 20:2,13
42:13 draw 18:25 35:13,15 20:15 21:17,21 30:15,21 36:20
44:5 19:11,11 28:1 encourage 46:7 21:24 23:21,23 47:6
50:12,21 51:13 encourages 53:6 23:23 24:3,10 fabricates 5:7
6:9,19 54:15,16 55:4 framed 17:8 58:4 59:15 happy 53:6 55:2
12:19 55:5 frankly 38:19 goes 8:11 26:4 hard 19:16
23:20 fit 11:7 39:7 41:1,15 52:4 23:22 29:21,25
30:24 Fitzsimmons free 10:20 Goff 8:23 harm 24:9
32:6 3:22 17:3 freestanding going 15:23 harmless 37:11
five 56:8,8 9:11 57:25 21:21 24:3 Harris 59:2
45:8 54:9 21:23 12:13 17:7,14 32:5 33:22 35:19,19 36:5
flip 53:23 17:20 19:4 35:3,12 41:23 40:19 42:14
flood 34:25 36:5 fully 5:9 6:2 44:7 45:10 30:13 33:25
focused 35:24 47:9,11,13,14 54:14,16,17 help 50:10
12:12,24 16:11 18:16 43:18 15:4 37:20 4:21 5:13 6:17
30:4,5 20:17 35:22 fundamental 44:24 7:21 8:6,21
38:20,20 40:19 25:11 government 9:20 10:16
foreordained 37:2 15:24 30:23
61:5 form 9:21 13:23 get-go 46:23 grave 55:19,19 host 51:16
Fourteenth 35:17 37:20 guy 33:4 I
54:17 60:10 45:17,25 49:21 idea 34:3
31:20 60:8,9,17,25 43:25 50:8,9 happening 53:3 Imbler 3:17 4:8
24:1 improper 22:17 13:13 14:21 51:4 52:16 12:18,22 42:6
31:1 improve 46:21 15:18,22 38:12 investigation 42:7 56:23
incarcerated 42:21,21 3:19 4:17 5:3 judge's 42:3
12:11 incarceration insider 28:19 16:9 19:9 25:8 judgment 30:3
18:18 5:24 29:14 26:11 58:15
19:13 incentive 44:10 insignificant investigative judicial 3:12
21:7,19 45:6 49:25 49:22 27:23 58:14 16:16 21:12,13
50:4 insisted 4:25 investigatorial 23:14 42:2
41:11 incentives 49:23 insisting 5:3 17:18 46:17,18 48:7
including 22:20 insofar 17:16 investigators 50:18 60:2
55:7 inconsistent institution 60:16 investigatory 60:25
5:2,21,23 independent insulate 25:4 13:16 22:18 jury's 47:22
7:13 8:20 38:9 59:11 interest 12:15 27:15 28:4,23 Justice 1:19 3:3
13:10 independently 13:9,21 21:12 30:25 35:25 3:9,20,24 4:14
16:8 15:15 23:13 24:7 36:2 47:14 5:6,7 6:2,3 7:3
20:8 indicate 61:1 interested 54:20 48:8 51:10 7:4,8,15,20,22
23:12 indicated 16:6 interpret 31:7 involved 6:11 8:2,15 9:5,13
25:19 16:13 59:15 interrupt 18:22 8:3,7,16 9:15 9:17 10:9,22
indict 49:13 intertwined 17:16,18 32:8 11:6,9,22 12:1
32:5 individual 47:11 52:5 40:15 44:25 12:6,17 13:13
42:2 inducement interview 32:19 45:3 46:23 14:2,9,13,20
35:21,24 40:24 32:21 33:8 48:23 15:2,11,21,25
49:22 induces 20:4 48:10 53:16 involves 23:24 16:5,19,25
39:16 interviewing involving 27:15 17:12,25 18:6
53:8 inevitable 58:6 51:21 52:10,23 Iowa 1:4 59:18 18:22 19:1,7
55:25 inextricably 53:22 Iqbal 30:3 33:11 20:1,8,12,20
58:3,5 52:5 interviews 32:15 33:15,19,20 20:24 21:2,6
inflicted 27:8 introduce 21:17 isolate 18:20 21:20 22:1,6
21:13 23:15 19:24 24:19,22 14:7 27:5,17 25:15,20 26:1
57:13 initial 6:19 introduces 40:11 41:9 27:20,25 28:9
33:5 injure 38:10 44:2 J 32:17 33:1,6
injuries 27:7 15:10 20:6 job 47:20 48:25 35:5 36:7,14
6:1,1 7:1 8:1,8 investigate joint 10:25 38:21 39:1,12
12:1,4,7 13:8 25:16 50:24 judge 10:4,23 41:13 42:5,10
43:11,21 34:23 40:14 liability 6:14,19 43:7 51:1,9 4:19,22 17:13
45:12 45:1,9 56:19 8:17 9:14 14:5 53:15 55:5 23:8 29:23
46:4 57:13 15:6,7 21:15 looked 10:23 31:23,24 33:25
kingpin 29:5 23:3 24:5,15 54:23 36:11 37:1,6
47:3 knew 30:5 25:21 26:5,7 looking 9:20 37:19 39:5,23
know 20:18,22 27:1 32:20,21 33:3 47:17,19 41:11 42:19,19
24:25 25:2,4 37:16 39:9,16 51:3 44:10 45:13,17
31:24 32:14 39:17,24 56:20 lose 55:9 45:20 46:6,21
52:2 35:6,8,11,11 58:18 59:10,11 loss 61:4 48:24 49:17,23
53:5,13 36:14 40:22 liable 4:20,23 lot 31:22 32:7 50:11 51:25
54:3 42:1 43:17 6:12,21 7:5,12 33:4 45:25 52:11,21 53:10
57:3 45:13 46:1 9:18 10:13 46:5 57:7 58:3
58:8 47:21,21 49:4 11:3 12:9 lower 3:16 38:16 meaning 56:16
59:5,14 49:6,17 50:6 14:17,21,21,25 43:1 means 3:12,12
60:4 50:15 51:8 21:18 25:13 lower-ranking 38:4
61:7 53:7,9,20 44:17 55:20,23 29:7 memory 38:22
37:3 liberal 57:8 M 29:13,19
51:16 L 60:6,11,22 majority 16:7 messy 23:23
law 8:2 9:21 line 18:9,11,24 48:20 50:23 minutes 56:8
18:2,14 14:23 19:20 19:11,11,13 malicious 6:22 misconduct
20:3 21:8 26:15 27:23 28:1,2 9:22,23 12:23 44:12 55:18,22
28:22 31:8 45:22 46:21 13:1,23 14:1 56:1,2
22:1,9 54:17,22 55:1 47:8,24 49:3 14:24 15:2,5 missing 30:14
23:10 58:2 59:13,18 50:13,21 51:13 31:8 40:12 moment 13:15
25:2,18 59:19 60:12,18 51:20 52:9,11 59:12,19 47:15
61:4 52:15 53:1 maliciously 9:3 money 22:12
5:6 8:2 leads 11:11,14 lines 55:2,16 Malley 16:13 37:7,8,23,24
20:12,20 leave 13:14 listen 26:25 37:25 38:6,16 Moore 31:4
21:2,6 legal 13:23 46:9 47:16 39:6 43:4 35:19,19 40:19
24:8 legislature litigation 39:18 man 20:15 morning 3:4
38:21 22:23 23:7 little 21:5 49:3 manner 44:1 motion 16:10
46:13,19 leniency 23:24 live 45:8 52:9,14 material 8:19 58:14
47:3 letting 23:14 lived 29:17 matter 1:12 mouth 52:22
59:14 let's 13:14 28:17 34:20 35:14 22:16 29:24
29:15 53:16 55:4 look 18:20 34:2 McGhee 1:7 3:5 natural 24:1
33:16 level 34:10,11 34:8 40:18 mean 3:24 4:14 NEAL 1:18 2:5
10:11 14:18,25 pack 59:3 33:10 37:3,12 14:4,14,17,18
43:8 47:18 Parrot 60:19 perverse 40:3,6 21:18,23 27:2
36:18 55:18,23 part 42:3 48:7 Petitioners 1:5 45:1,5 46:2,8
54:10 15:6,18 21:23 participated 56:11 55:18,23
14:18 47:12 49:21 participation phony 26:11 20:2,3,7,24
28:15 offices 35:1 6:8 28:24 picture 32:12 21:1
officials 28:22 particular 48:17 58:23 59:5,24 policy 17:19
Okay 19:14 40:9 54:20 28:1,1 30:25 49:19,20
once 47:1 parties 54:10 54:14 position 6:16,17
open 21:15 55:10,13 plaintiff 18:20 59:22
38:20 40:10,21 percent 48:21 55:12 58:13 Pottawattamie
opponent 57:9 perform 8:13 48:6,6 practical 18:12
33:14 original 54:23 period 13:14 47:16,17 48:9 preparing 50:24
12:19 47:12 55:20 36:25 37:4,9 pointed 23:2 presented 7:23
23:13 perjury 29:8 points 23:16 17:3 30:21
7:10,12 P 10:13 17:15 7:10,12,13,17 presumes 20:17
10:2 P 3:1 28:21 29:7 10:2,11 11:3 pretrial 9:7 26:5
27:14 21:13 23:14 11:7 12:9,10 protecting 21:12 41:5 46:10,14
44:9,17 25:6,9 26:8,14 13:2,3 14:1 23:14 24:8 48:19 51:19
56:1 26:15,16 28:8 15:19,22 16:9 protection 31:16 57:20
41:2 16:14 17:16 49:22 questioned
59:10,16,22,23 21:20 24:3,22 provide 8:1 52:6
39:4,6 procure 40:15 30:5 32:14,15 22:15
55:4
44:9 36:2,20 37:4 59:19 R 3:1
produce 43:23 40:13 43:12 pro-prosecuto... radical 58:2
32:7,9,14 program 31:16 50:5,7,9 51:21 published 34:9 rationale 9:21
promises 31:15 52:5,9,23 purporting 3:18 10:18 19:4
45:13,15 property 26:15 55:21,25 56:20 purpose 33:10 read 18:19 19:2
proposition 8:5 prosecutorial 52:18,24
40:8,10
37:15 7:1,19 8:10 purposes 19:11 41:14
48:3,10 38:1 41:21 17:17 22:17 25:18 32:4
49:8
52:3,3 35:24 40:24 51:23 pursuant 13:23 21:22 25:12
53:4,21 53:14,17 prosecutors 61:2 35:6 37:12
prosecuting 5:8 4:16 6:10 11:3 push 49:5 40:22 42:16
52:8,12 prosecution 15:17 17:4 put 36:20 37:16 49:25 50:4,11
54:14 5:16 6:23 9:22 21:14 22:7,16 44:15,16 47:20 50:16 55:12
19:15,17 14:24 15:3,3,5 30:15 32:8 Pyle 11:17 19:23 26:2 40:2,5,16
45:18 15:16,19 16:10 35:7,9 36:6 45:21,25 49:2
47:22 29:5 31:8,15 46:8,22 48:23 qualified 5:2 reasoning 12:23
59:12,20 60:21 prosecutor's 58:5,18 REBUTTAL
60:16 4:4,17 5:1,4,9 11:18 12:11 19:12 received 31:14
8:24 9:6 recognized 22:3
9:12
protect 12:15 10:17 12:2 23:13 24:1
13:11,23 8:8,13,16,18 21:11 13:20 17:3,6 35:20,22 49:24
16:16 8:20 9:1,2,24 protected 13:9 18:16 22:22 50:17,20
19:2 9:25 10:3,6,12 31:1 43:18,20
25:3 26:4 recognizing
20:23
11:1 43:21,24 32:4,23 34:7 54:24
50:11 57:8 34:9,17,19 58:19
38:2,19 retrospectively safe 45:19 secure 19:25 slight 44:21
51:9 sanctioned 22:8 see 18:11,13 societal 24:7
review 58:11 3:23 4:1,21 48:25 51:1 37:10 38:13
12:14 13:12 11:13,25 12:5 seizure 13:22 sort 4:11 6:22
24:6 18:22 20:19 15:7,13,24 sense 10:9 14:16 37:23 40:13
47:8 49:14 59:25 60:7,13 40:10 Sotomayor 10:9
55:11 saw 51:13 seven 60:14 21:20 22:1,6
27:14 road 10:10 19:1 21:6,9 25:21 27:11 sounds 27:16
ROBERTS 3:3 34:6 53:15 34:20 Sparks 42:1
2:9 9:10 33:24 34:14 47:21 50:6,7,9 shoot 53:9,10 specifically
17:5,22 35:5 36:7,14 Scalia 7:3,8,15 show 22:16 51:2 41:25 58:20
23:18 40:25 41:5,13 7:20 9:17 20:1 shows 57:5 spinning 3:25
26:22 42:5,10 43:11 31:24 39:12,22 side 53:25 spoke 8:24
58:1 50:1,14 53:5 40:9 42:15 significant spoken 10:17
56:6 61:7 57:21 significantly stage 4:17 8:18
56:24 rubric 24:15 search 38:12 simply 4:13 5:17 27:23,24 30:25
56:15 T 2:1,1 things 30:23 Toffler 18:7,7
sufficient 31:17 talk 47:23 49:17 23:12 25:11 tortfeasors
61:4 suggest 50:15 talked 60:20 26:6 27:25 10:25
29:9 suing 27:7 Taylor 60:19 33:11,22 34:8 treated 7:17
suits 25:7,9 61:3 34:12,13,14,15 trees 55:10
4:5 6:20 summary 30:3 telling 3:21 35:3,20 36:6 trial 3:13,19 4:7
58:15 43:25 37:20,22,25 4:18,22,24
30:6,20 54:18 term 13:7 42:19 43:15 7:23,25 8:9,17
3:7 supported 42:22 territory 60:8 46:17,20 47:2 10:15,21 11:2
supporting 1:20 test 8:11 47:4,4,7,8,8,24 11:16,19 12:12
15:2 30:20 42:20,22 28:25 49:6,19,23 13:14 14:14,15
42:25 testifying 29:6 50:22 51:12 14:19,22 15:9
25:15 suppose 20:20 testimony 30:4 52:8,12,12 15:20,23 17:9
26:1,10 34:21 36:11,19 32:3 37:4,9,12 53:2,3,25 54:2 19:3,24 20:6
60:4,9 37:1 44:11 text 26:13 39:6 54:6,7,9,19,22 21:14 24:10,13
48:2 52:1 54:25 55:8,12,15,17 25:17,24,25
32:4 Supreme 1:1,13 56:12 61:7 59:21 29:1 30:4,8,22
sure 6:2 35:11 theory 6:23 11:6 Thomas 59:14 36:9,11,16,21
39:9 survive 58:14,15 36:1 37:2 18:19,20 19:16 56:3 58:25
36:8,10 system 36:22 14:3 30:14 50:24 59:7 tried 31:6
44:24 46:6 today 17:3 32:13 true 14:13 29:24
unlawful 39:14 virtue 5:20 win 45:19 Z
34:9 W witness 5:18 34:12 56:15,16
untenable 13:6 want 21:22 22:2 28:5,17,20
53:11 urge 9:10 32:13 33:2 31:12,16 32:2 08-1065 1:6 3:4
28:6 6:25 7:14 8:9 49:17,20 50:6 36:23 40:14 1
48:12,14 10:21 11:16,18 53:22 55:13 45:4,4,15 1.1 23:17
50:21
36:25 58:22 46:16 52:6,23 10:02 1:14 3:2
11:7 uses 10:7,14 Washington 1:9 52:8,22 16 2:7
26:25 usually 34:1 1:19,22 work 46:25 58:2 17 34:12 57:6,17
33:6 U.S 35:1 wasn't 8:16 9:15 worked 36:22 1871 55:6,11
42:22 32:18 38:22 world 34:2 1975 25:21
V 42:7,20 43:16 1983 18:5,18
31:4 35:19,19 7:25 12:8 15:4 worry 21:14
42:1 22:8 24:14 22:2 52:21 2
variant 40:12 47:18 54:9 Wray 56:17 26 2:9
12:17 14:7 ways 23:5,9 3
58:23 Wednesday 22:3 25:5 4
24:16 violation 4:11 went 6:7 22:11 4 1:10
29:24 4:24 11:4,10 we're 14:11 18:9 12:15 13:4,22 5
57:1,4 12:3 15:9 19:3 19:4 35:6 15:10 28:16 5 4:24 16:11
19:21,22,22 48:25 53:16 58:3 60:16 18:16
36:15 37:8 wheels 3:25 X 6
39:5,8,10,11 white-collar
6:20 16:22 58:13 willful 10:20 yeah 43:23
22:25 willing 47:16 years 8:22 35:18 8 35:22 40:19
48:21
48:22
