IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
STOLT-NIELSEN S.A., ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 08-1198
ANIMALFEEDS :
INTERNATIONAL CORP. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, December 9, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioners.
CORNELIA T.L. PILLARD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
CORNELIA T.L. PILLARD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 60
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:02 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear
argument first today in Case 08-1198, Stolt-Nielsen S.A.
v. AnimalFeeds International.
Mr. Waxman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Unlike courts, arbitrators derive their
authority solely from the consent of the parties to a
particular agreement.
That agreement determines not only what the
parties have agreed to arbitrate, but just as
fundamentally, with whom they have agreed to do so. And
when the agreement reveals no intent, no meeting of the
minds to add participants, but the arbitrators
nonetheless extend their reach to hundreds of parties of
other contracts, they violate the basic principle
reflected in the FAA that their authority is created and
circumscribed by an agreement.
The decision to impose class proceedings is
not the kind of incidental procedural matter that
arbitrators have to resolve in order to discharge their
responsibilities under the foundational agreement.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, there's a
preliminary question in this case, and that is: There
was one agreement, undoubtedly signed by both sides,
and that was the one to submit to the arbitrator the
question whether the arbitration clause permitted class
treatment.
The arbitrators answered that question,
which they were given authority to do so by both sides,
and the Second Circuit said that the arbitrators
answered within the ballpark.
If we agree with that, then there's nothing
else to consider in this case.
MR. WAXMAN: I respectfully disagree,
Justice Ginsburg. The arbitrators -- the agreement
reflected in paragraph 7 of the supplemental agreement
-- that is, to proceed to arbitration under the auspices
of Rules 3 through 7 of the AAA rules, and Rule 3 itself
contemplated precisely submitting precisely the
contract issue that the Bazzle plurality said should go
to the arbitrators. That is, looking at the arbitration
clause itself, does it objectively reveal an agreement
among the two parties to permit or prohibit class or
consolidated treatment, or is it truly silent?
That is a question of contract
interpretation. That is the question that was submitted
to the arbitrators.
There is a separate statutory question that
arises if the answer to the contract question is number
3. There is no meeting of the minds. It is truly
silent --
JUSTICE BREYER: But there is no such answer.
MR. WAXMAN: Excuse me.
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought, in contracts,
there is no such answer. When you interpret a contract
and it doesn't say, you try to figure out -- I used to
be taught that; probably I am way out-of-date -- you try
to figure out what a reasonable party would have
intended.
MR. WAXMAN: Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: And I thought that's what
Bazzle said, that --
MR. WAXMAN: I very -- I very much doubt
that you are way out-of-date. If you are, I shudder to
think where I am. But let me be clear --
JUSTICE BREYER: Not as out-of-date.
(Laughter.)
MR. WAXMAN: I hope I am as up-to-date as I
need to be to provide a coherent, correct answer.
My proposition is twofold, and only the
second part gets to your question.
The first is that the arbitrators in this
case decided the contractual question, the -- did the
parties have a meeting of the minds, yes or no? And if
so, was it?
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. WAXMAN: And the arbitrators then went
on to say: Even though there is no meeting of the minds
objectively revealed, nonetheless we are going to apply
a background rule that puts the burden on the party
opposing arbitration to prove that there is an intent to
preclude.
So, we're establishing that the --
JUSTICE BREYER: I see that now, but then --
but there are two separate questions.
MR. WAXMAN: Exactly.
JUSTICE BREYER: My question was, first, the
same as Justice Ginsburg.
MR. WAXMAN: And I have an answer --
JUSTICE BREYER: And I have a question for
you on that, because in reading these briefs, I thought
your description of who is to decide this matter of
whether there is to be a class action was just what you
said: The question of who should decide it is a matter
for the parties.
MR. WAXMAN: The question --
JUSTICE BREYER: So when I looked at -- I
just have been reading Bazzle three, five times, and there
seemed --
MR. WAXMAN: Well, you are nowhere near up
to me, then.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But what it
seems to say is that that's a matter to figure out from
a contract and background circumstances. In Bazzle,
the contract was: Any -- all disputes relating to this
contract.
Here, it doesn't say that. It says: "Any
dispute arising from the performance, termination, or
making of the contract."
Now, a class-action determination does
relate to. Maybe it doesn't arise out of, okay? That's
an argument.
MR. WAXMAN: Yes. No, no, no --
JUSTICE BREYER: So why are all these briefs
saying that what Bazzle said was: Whenever this is
silent, it goes to the arbitrator; the who question is
answered at arbitration.
I can't find it saying that.
MR. WAXMAN: No, no, no. What -- and I -- I'm
interpreting the plurality opinion that you wrote -- or
you and three of your colleagues.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I know. I know. But
what I actually thought doesn't matter. What matters is
what is said.
MR. WAXMAN: Okay. Well, our
understanding -- what Bazzle said is, at the very
beginning of the opinion -- look, here's the case: The
South Carolina Supreme Court found that the arbitration
clause is truly silent, and it then applied a rule of
State law that says, if it's silent, class treatment
will be permitted. We granted certiorari in this case
to decide whether that rule of South Carolina law
applied to this case is precluded by the FAA, which
requires actual consent, not coercion.
Now, what the plurality in Bazzle, with
respect, said is: We can't reach the legal question,
the statutory FAA question on which we granted review,
because we can't be certain that the contract really is
silent. To be sure, there's no express provision, but
Bazzle -- the Bazzle plaintiffs say that it is silent,
and Green Tree says, no, if you look at other words in
it, including the right to choose each arbitrator for
each arbitration, it's not -- the South Carolina courts
answered the question, but they are not the ones,
because when you are talking about a question of the
interpretation of a contract that has committed to
arbitration, that is for the arbitrators to decide. The
arbitrators have to decide whether there was actually a
meeting of the minds.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, you're -- so the
answer to Justice Ginsburg's question is, as to the who
question, who shall decide whether or not in your case
class actions are permissible?
MR. WAXMAN: And the --
JUSTICE BREYER: The who question in Bazzle,
because of the contract and background, was the
arbitrator.
MR. WAXMAN: If -- yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: The who question here,
irrespective of the contract is the arbitrator for the
reason that Justice Ginsburg said. There's a separate
saying: You are the who; you, arbitrators, are the who.
MR. WAXMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: So now we look to the what.
They then decided it.
MR. WAXMAN: Exactly. So in Bazzle --
JUSTICE BREYER: What -- what did they decide?
And you are saying that's wrong. And there you run into
all the authority, Misco, who used to be in other
places, saying when the arbitrator says something,
unless it's in Marrs, follow it. That's what you are
addressing.
MR. WAXMAN: Right. Exactly. And -- and this
case presents exactly the same answer to that question
that Bazzle presented when it was granted review; that
is, there is -- there was an interpretation of the
contract in Bazzle, and an application of a legal
principle to that interpretation. The who for what --
what the parties actually intended is the arbitrator.
That's what the Bazzle plurality, together with Justice
Stevens, both decided.
The question that arises, the legal question
that arises, only if the arbitrators say there was no
meeting of the minds: So what rule does the FAA allow
us to apply as a matter of Federal law? That is for
courts, and you didn't reach it because the preliminary
question of whether the contract was really silent, the
predicate question, wasn't answered. And you remanded
for that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Waxman, can I ask this
preliminary question? Assume the contract expressly
authorized class arbitration. Would you agree that was
permissible?
MR. WAXMAN: If it expressly authorized it?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
MR. WAXMAN: If it expressly authorized
class participation, obviously, we would have no
argument that the parties had not agreed to it.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand, but would
you agree that would be consistent with the law, to
enforce such a provision?
MR. WAXMAN: My -- I have a --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That is, does the Federal
statute prohibit that kind of provision?
MR. WAXMAN: No, certainly not.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Oh.
MR. WAXMAN: I mean, the only reason -- the
only reason I'm hedging -- and I don't mean to hedge, but
trying to be thoughtful -- is that this Court explained
in Mitsubishi, in the context of the arbitration of a
Sherman Act agreement, and subsequently in Gilmer and
other statutory cases, that in determining whether class
participation or some other form of remedy is or isn't
available, there is a two-part inquiry.
The first part is: What was the scope of
the arbitration agreement? What is it that the parties
have agreed --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And you would agree that
if they phrased their order a little differently and
said we think that the best reading of this agreement
is that the parties intended to authorize class
arbitration, then you would have no case?
MR. WAXMAN: Then we would have review only
under the -- I don't know that I would characterize it
this way, but what Justice Breyer characterized, the
Marrs standard of review; that is, you would have to
show --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That there was manifest
disregard ­-
MR. WAXMAN: -- manifest disregard, and a
manifest --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And you would not contend
-- you are not arguing that that would be manifest --
MR. WAXMAN: No, our -- and the petition in
this case presented the question as given, presented the
issue of contract construction as given, that the
contract itself was silent, not only in the sense that
it didn't include an express provision or prohibition,
but also that it reflected no meeting of the minds. It
objectively revealed no meeting of the minds, looking
not only at the actual text of the contract, but also
looking at the other indicia -- objective indicia of
intent that courts use to --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What, in your view --
what, in your view, were the arbitrators asked to decide
by the submission by the parties?
MR. WAXMAN: The arbitrators were asked to
decide whether the arbitration agreement objectively
reveals consent to prohibit, permit -- whether it
reveals a meeting of the minds to prohibit class
treatment, permit class treatment, or whether it was
truly silent.
JUSTICE ALITO: Didn't you just --
MR. WAXMAN: And if you look at --
JUSTICE ALITO: Didn't you just say that the
parties agreed that there was no meeting of the minds on
this issue?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, no, no, no. The
parties that -- I mean -- we actually -- let me step
back and give -- and give the history of it.
This case arose immediately in the wake of
Bazzle. Okay? They sued in court; we obtained an order
affirmed by the Second Circuit sending them to
arbitration. Bazzle is decided, and we're all looking
at Bazzle, and we decide -- like the AAA, which has
filed an amicus brief in this case, and said it drafted
these rules in order to provide a procedure to answer
the Bazzle contract interpretation question; the AAA
says, we don't have any view about the statutory
question that arises from silence -- so we drafted a
supplemental agreement that, in paragraph 7,
incorporates the AAA Rules 3 through 7.
And the AAA Rule 3, which is included on
page 56 of the joint appendix, is headed "Construction
of the Arbitration Clause." And it requires the
arbitrators in this arbitration to determine, quote, "on
construction of the arbitration clause, whether the
applicable arbitration clause permits the arbitration to
proceed on behalf of or against a class." The, quote,
"clause construction award."
Now, the legal -- the arbitrators in this
case concluded that it neither permitted nor prohibited,
either by its express terms or by reference to other
objective indicia of intent --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm a little bit puzzled. I
don't understand how something -- if you ask
whether something permits it, and if it doesn't prohibit
it, doesn't it a fortiori permit it?
MR. WAXMAN: It -- in the context of the
Federal Arbitration Act, which this Court has made clear
more times than I can remember that the central purpose
is to ensure that private agreements to arbitrate are
enforced according to their terms, the question is:
Have the parties agreed to it if there is a meeting of
the minds?
If no meeting of the minds is objectively
revealed, under the FAA, the arbitrator exceeds his
authority in requiring class arbitration. It's -- there
is no consent. And if there is no consent, the legal
rule under -- the hallmark principle of the FAA is this
is a private consensual matter. This is not a court
exercising public coercive authority. I mean, the --
JUSTICE ALITO: What is your understanding
of what Mr. Persky says at 77a of the joint appendix?
He was -- I take it he was counsel for AnimalFeeds? Is
that right?
MR. WAXMAN: Correct. He --
JUSTICE ALITO: And he says all the parties
agree that when a contract is silent on an issue, there
has been no agreement that has been reached on that
issue; therefore, there has been no agreement to bar
class arbitrations.
MR. WAXMAN: Right. I --
JUSTICE ALITO: So then I don't understand
what issue there was for the arbitrator to --
arbitrators to decide --
MR. WAXMAN: They --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- other than to impose a rule
like the rule that had been adopted by South Carolina.
But that would not be within their power, unless they
could presumably find that rule in Federal maritime law
or New York law.
MR. WAXMAN: Correct. I mean --
JUSTICE ALITO: So what was the issue for
them to decide?
MR. WAXMAN: So here's was -- here's what the
issue was. They said the contract is completely silent
and, as you quoted on page 77, the part -- there's no
meeting of the minds on this issue at all. That was
their position about the construction of the contract.
Our position about the construction of the
contract was that, in fact, although there is no express
provision one way or the other, this is a maritime
contract, and the -- and maritime law is ascertained by
custom and practice. And we introduced evidence in the
form of affidavits that were unrefuted that since the
days of Marco Polo, these types of spot voyages have
been --
JUSTICE BREYER: That -- isn't that -- you
and I have a contract. I'll ship you 17 pounds of durum
wheat, and you will pay me $43. In the meantime, a
green worm eats up all the durum wheat, and therefore
they can't send durum wheat; they send some duhu wheat.
All right? Question: Is the contract
valid or not?
MR. WAXMAN: I don't owe you.
JUSTICE BREYER: Answer: We have courts for
that purpose. We have arbitrators for that purpose.
MR. WAXMAN: Exactly.
JUSTICE BREYER: Arbitrators will look to
see what it says. If it says nothing, they will try to
determine what the parties thought. If they can't
determine what they thought, they will look to custom,
analogy, et cetera. Now --
MR. WAXMAN: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: They won't?
MR. WAXMAN: In -- in the -- in the context
of -- in the context of a court that has jurisdiction
over a dispute and exercises coercive power, it has to
get to an answer.
When you are talking about private
arbitration, where the model is a private agreement to
resolve things between two parties, this -- under the
FAA, the arbitrators get their authority only as to
matters as to which there is consent.
And there is -- going to Justice Alito's
question, there was consent. It was submitted for
purpose of determining whether -- if you look at the
contract and look at background rules and look at parol
evidence and look at custom and practice, can you
discern whether, as -- as you put it in -- in the
opinion in Howsam, Justice Breyer, whether the contract,
quote, "objectively reveals an agreement" by the two
parties.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's the same before
courts. That's no different. I mean, yes, a court has
to come to a decision, but so does an arbitrator. And I
really -- I really don't understand what it means to say
that the contract does not cover it. I mean, the -- the
contract either requires it or does not require it.
And if the contract is silent, either the
court or the arbitrator has to decide what is the
consequence of that silence, in light of the background,
in light of -- of implied understandings. Is the
consequence of the -- of the silence that a class
arbitration is permitted, or is the consequence of the
silence that it is not?
But those are the only answers. The
contract requires it or the contract doesn't require it.
I don't know anything in between -- the contract is
silent. If the contract is silent, it's up to the court
or the arbitrator to decide what that silence means.
MR. WAXMAN: Exactly. And -- and maybe the
ambiguity here is the fluidity of the term "silence."
"Silence" can mean there's no express
provision. "Silence" could also mean, well, if you look
at other words in the text of the contract, you can't
work your way through to conclude that there was in fact
an intent.
It also may mean -- and this is the sense
that I am using it in, and I think the sense that the
arbitrators have authority to do, is to say, well,
let's look and see, for example, if there is custom and
practice that would inform the backdrop against which
the parties negotiate.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and why is it that
you say an arbitrator cannot do that, but a judge can?
MR. WAXMAN: No, no, no, I think an
arbitrator can. The arbitrator has plenary authority,
subject to manifest disregard review, to decide whether
or not there was a meeting of the minds of the parties.
And it can use the text of the statute; it can use an
applicable background principle of governing law; it can
use principles like contra proferentem, as this Court
did in --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But are they situated and
do they have the same authority as a court would in
determining that issue, given the fact that it was
remitted to them to decide?
MR. WAXMAN: They have plenary authority to
apply rules of construction that go to the parties'
intent, that go to whether there is -- possible to discern
a meeting of the minds. They don't have --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you would -- would you
describe -- would you describe the authority of a court
any differently than you've just described the authority
of an arbitrator?
MR. WAXMAN: Well, I think that courts can
-- for example, a court can say -- and the other side
relies heavily on a Seventh Circuit opinion by Judge
Posner, where he basically says: There is no intent
here, but courts apply contract constructions that seem
most sensible as a matter of public policy, and that's
what we are going to do.
That's what a court can do and an arbitrator
can't. The arbitrator can use any tools possible,
including, largely, the text and custom and practice, in
order to define whether or not there was a meeting of
the minds. But if there wasn't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do I have to agree with
Judge Posner on that? I mean I -- I don't --
MR. WAXMAN: I think it's a radical
proposition --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You would -- yes, you --
MR. WAXMAN: -- as a matter of what courts can
do, but it certainly doesn't express what an arbitrator
can do. And he was -- he was performing the kind of
function, ostensibly, that you said that should be done
by an arbitrator in Bazzle. He was doing it as a court.
But arbitrators have to construe the
agreement itself between the two parties to see if there
is a meeting of the minds. And there are lots of tools
they can use.
And just to get back to your question,
Justice Alito --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But --
MR. WAXMAN: I'm sorry -- in this case, we
said the contract was not truly silent, that --
essentially, we argued what Judge Rakoff concluded.
They said: No, no, no; it is truly silent, but you
should rule for us on other grounds. And may I please
ask the Court, if you have it, to turn to page 22 of our
blue brief, because on page 22 of our blue brief we have
reprinted exactly what AnimalFeeds told the arbitrators
were the reasons why they should win, in light of Mr.
Persky's statement that there was no meeting of the
minds. And it is the indented paragraph.
This is all that they said: "The parties'
arbitration clause should be construed to allow class
arbitration because (a) the clause is silent on the
issue of class treatment, and without express
prohibition, class arbitration is permitted under
Bazzle." The arbitrator said: No, that's not what
Bazzle means. Bazzle doesn't mean that unless there's
an express prohibition, it's -- it's permitted. So that
was their reason number one.
Let's go to their reason number 3.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where did the arbitrators
say that?
MR. WAXMAN: They said it in -- pardon me
while I get the page.
Page 49a: "Claimants argue that Bazzle
requires clear language that forbids class arbitration
in order to bar a class action. The panel, however,
agrees with Respondents that the test is a more general
one. Arbitrators must look to the language of the
parties' agreement to ascertain the parties' intention,
whether they intended to permit or to preclude class
arbitration."
Now, let's go back to what they told the
arbitrators, and it's reprinted on page 22. I am going
to skip --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But let me just, right
there, interrupt with one question. The alternatives
before the arbitrator were whether it is permitted or
precluded?
MR. WAXMAN: Or was silent.
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, that's not what they
said there, is it? That -- that the parties agree they're
silent -- that whether they -- if they are silent,
whether they permit or preclude class action. Those are
the two alternatives that they were confronted with.
They decided that it did not preclude; ergo, it
permitted.
MR. WAXMAN: Well --
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's what the answer to
that on page 49a is.
MR. WAXMAN: No, with -- with respect -- and
I'll -- let me answer this question --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You --
MR. WAXMAN: -- before getting back to the
-- what that -- what -- look, you -- you may find,
contrary to the cert grant in this case, that the
predicate of our petition is wrong.
Our petition is predicated on the
understanding that the arbitrators found that the
contract was truly silent; that is, it expressed no
meeting of the minds. And, therefore, this case
presents the question --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the question you were
asked was whether that silence should be interpreted as
a preclusion or a permission.
MR. WAXMAN: And we know from the
arbitrators' decision --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You said there was a
permission.
MR. WAXMAN: As -- as a background rule,
that's what they said. What they said was, they --
first of all -- and we are looking at page 52 -- they
acknowledge the force of the argument, quote, "that the
bulk of international shippers would never intend to
have their disputes decided in a class arbitration."
But they said, well, we can deal with that later in
deciding whether they can opt in or out.
I mean, the point is that if you have to opt
in because it's clear that you never agreed, there is no
meeting of the minds.
Secondly --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, may I
ask you -- because your time is running and we are
spending all of your time on this preliminary question.
There is one fundamental flaw, it seems to
me, in your argument, and I'd like you to answer it.
And you can call it "the vanishing class action."
AnimalFeeds wanted to be in court, not in arbitration.
MR. WAXMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said -- and they
wanted to bring a class action. You persuaded the
Second Circuit they belong in arbitration. So now they
are in arbitration. You say: The only thing we
consented to is a one-on-one claim. Fine.
AnimalFeeds can then say: Fine, well, we
didn't consent to anything more than the one-on-one. We
had a class action. We had -- we were in court. We
could have proceeded in an individual action or a class
action. Now we are in arbitration, and under the
agreement, as you read it, we can't have the class
action in arbitration.
That doesn't mean it vanishes, because if it
does, then the arbitration clause is not merely saying
what the arbitrator can decide, but it is shrinking
drastically the dimensions of AnimalFeeds' claim.
MR. WAXMAN: That is incorrect, with
respect. AnimalFeeds doesn't have a class claim.
AnimalFeeds has a claim. Its claim is that it paid too
much for the contracts that it entered into -- the charter
parties -- to ship some sort of oil from Panama to ports
around the world.
It is -- it was asking a court, and is now
asking an arbitrator, to join in the separate claims
that other parties to other contracts with other
terms --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's what it was
doing in court.
MR. WAXMAN: Exactly. And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And -- and the court
said this goes to arbitration. What is the "this"?
If it's only a one-on-one claim, how do they lose the
larger claim that they had in court?
MR. WAXMAN: It's -- you know, that argument
-- in the JLM case, which is the case in which the
Second Circuit, the district court in the Second Circuit
said, no, you have to arbitrate this -- their briefs
actually made this point. Their briefs said you can't
send us to arbitration, because we won't get class
treatment in arbitration.
And the Second -- the district court in the
Second Circuit said you have got to arbitrate
according to the terms of your agreement. In footnote 9
of the Second Circuit's opinion ­-
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they never -- they
never gave up.
MR. WAXMAN: They never --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If -- if the -- if you
would regard arbitration as a change in forum, like
a forum selection clause, it says where you go, but it
doesn't change, if you have to go to another forum, what
your claim is.
MR. WAXMAN: Their claim was we paid too
much. And with respect, Justice Ginsburg, your point
that they aren't allowed to proceed in class arbitration
is no different than the fact that by agreeing to
arbitrate this bilateral dispute, the parties agreed to
dispense with an appeal and with meaningful judicial
review of the things the arbitrators decided.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Waxman, I hope you are
going to have time to go through (a), (b), and (c) --
MR. WAXMAN: I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- as you started to do.
MR. WAXMAN: I will.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Thank you.
MR. WAXMAN: I -- I was hoping to reserve a
few minutes for rebuttal, but nothing is more
important than --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, I bet you were thinking
you'd be able to.
MR. WAXMAN: -- than answering the Court's
questions.
So I think we have dealt with (a). They --
they said (a) we win because Bazzle requires it. The
arbitrators correctly said no.
I want to skip (b), because my submission is
that (b) is what they did.
(C) says the clause would be unconscionable
and unenforceable if it forbade class arbitration. The
panel said: We aren't reaching that; we are not
deciding that question.
So what's left? The only other argument
that AnimalFeeds made was (b): The clause should be
construed to permit class arbitration as a matter of
public policy. And that is exactly what the arbitrators
did.
What they said was -- and this is on page 51
of the petition appendix -- they said that if they
followed a strict contractual theory, quote, "There
would appear to be no basis for a class action, absent
express agreement among all parties and putative class
members."
And they then, lower down on the page, then
said that we were required to prove that the parties,
quote, "intended to preclude arbitration." That is,
they applied a background rule that they thought was
desirable from a public policy sense.
And our sole submission here, the only
question presented in this case, is that that decision
is not -- is precluded by the Federal Arbitration Act,
which requires that contracts to arbitrate be construed
only in accordance with their terms and what the parties
agreed with. And section 4 of the Arbitration Act
couldn't be clearer that they -- they can only proceed,
quote, "in accordance with the terms of their
agreement."
May I reserve the balance of my time?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you.
Ms. Pillard.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CORNELIA T.L. PILLARD
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. PILLARD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
What the arbitrators did here was interpret
the contract as the parties asked them to. They did not
impose their own policy judgment. And any judicial
review is under very deferential FAA standards under
section 10, which is confined to correcting what amount
to gross defects in the process.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where -- where -- where do
they say that they were interpreting the intent of the
parties, that it was the intent of the parties to permit
class arbitration?
MS. PILLARD: Okay. Petitioners' position
rests on a misinterpretation of what the arbitrators
did. And if you look at page 59 of the petition
appendix, Mr. Waxman already read to you the language
that the arbitrators understood they must look to the
language of the parties' agreement to ascertain the
parties' intention.
And then the next key part is on page 50a,
which is a little terse, but let's say --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me, what part -- 50?
MS. PILLARD: 50a, the next page of the
petition appendix.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought you said 59a to
start.
MS. PILLARD: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You said 49a.
MS. PILLARD: 49a was where --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MS. PILLARD: -- the arbitrators described
their methodology, which is standard contract
methodology: To look to the parties' agreement, to
ascertain the parties' intention, whether they intended
to permit --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or to preclude.
MS. PILLARD: -- or preclude --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MS. PILLARD: -- class action. So they have
set up --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Isn't that a
critical difference, though? I mean, I understood the
fundamental question in -- before getting arbitration
is whether the parties have agreed to arbitrate this
dispute with this party.
And it's one thing to say that the contract
permitted this sort of arbitration; it's another thing
to say it didn't preclude it.
MS. PILLARD: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And if it didn't
preclude, the contract may not preclude -- if I agree --
I guess it's the -- well, if I agree to arbitrate with
A, it doesn't preclude me from arbitrating with B, but
nothing in the agreement compels me to do that.
So which did the arbitrators do? Did they
say, under this contract, you agreed to a class action
treatment, in the sense that -- whether it's the
language or the intent or whatever -- or did they say we
don't find anything here that precludes class action
treatment?
MS. PILLARD: Mr. Chief Justice, they did
the former. And let me point you to -- on page 50, what
they relied on was the broad language of the agreement,
the language "any disputes." And in particular, they
drew on the breadth of that language and on the fact
that many other arbitrators had read similar language to
permit class arbitration. And so those other --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would you show
me this -- I see they have quoted from --
MS. PILLARD: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- from the agreement.
Where is that in the agreement itself?
MS. PILLARD: The "any disputes" --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MS. PILLARD: -- language? In the agreement
itself?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you know offhand.
MS. PILLARD: Is -- the agreement is
reproduced in Appendix F of the petition appendix, which
starts on page 67a, and the arbitration clause is on
page 69a.
Now, it's clear that the arbitrators
rejected the notion that they should permit --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, this is -- I'm
sorry. This is what I was wondering. It is, of course,
any dispute arising from -- blah, blah -- performance,
termination of this charter party shall be settled in
New York.
Now, there's -- the class is not a party to
this charter party. So disputes arising from this
charter party doesn't involve the class. So they did
not agree to arbitrate with the class.
Now, as I understand what the arbitrators
did, they said, well, they didn't preclude it, and so
we get to decide how far our authority goes.
MS. PILLARD: I'd like to address that
directly, Mr. Chief Justice. The arbitrators
specifically rejected the notion that they should adopt
as -- as a default rule. And that's on page 49a. Where
we had actually argued that they should, they rejected
our argument.
Claimants argue that Bazzle requires clear
language that forbids class arbitration in order to bar
it; the panel, however, agrees with Respondent.
So they are saying: We are not going to do
this based on a default rule; we are going to do this
based on the language and intent. Right?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, now -- now --
I'm sorry. I'm just reading along here. They rejected
your argument about "forbids," but the -- they go on to
say: The issue -- we look at this, we look at that to
see whether they intended to permit or to preclude class
action.
MS. PILLARD: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's enough for
them if the parties did not intend to preclude class
action.
MS. PILLARD: I -- I respectfully disagree.
They go on and they read any disputes to authorize --
now, it's not to require class action. I think it's
important that that be clear.
It's to put the class action mechanism --
or, to read the contract, that the class action
mechanism is in the arbitrators' toolbox. It's
something that's available. It's not necessarily going
to happen, but it's something that's available. So it's
part of a delegation to the arbitrators of authority
to choose procedures. Now --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In -- in any -- in
any case -- when you say "arbitrators' toolbox," I'm
trying to figure out if that is something different than
what the parties agreed to.
MS. PILLARD: No, by agreeing to arbitrate
any disputes, the arbitrators found that they were given
the authority to use class arbitration, among other
procedures, if they were appropriate in the particular
case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It -- it seems to me
that the arbitrators are putting the choice in a false
manner. It isn't whether, on the one hand, they agreed
to permit it or, on the other hand, they agreed to
prohibit it. Just forget about the latter. They must
have agreed to permit it.
Where did the arbitrators say they agreed --
they agreed to permit it? Not simply, they did not
agree to prohibit it. You don't have to agree to
prohibit everything in a contract. You have to agree to
permit it. That's what contracting is about.
MS. PILLARD: That's right. I'd like to
point to two aspects of the opinion that I think clarify
this.
The one is their reference to the language
on page 50a, the panel is -- and they are talking about
the language in the context of the other arbitration
precedent, or the other arbitration opinions that had
developed at that point under the AAA arbitration
scheme. And they are saying the -- they find that the
broad wording "any dispute" to be significant, and the
fact that other arbitrators looking at that language
also found "any dispute" to encompass the choice of this
procedure.
Now, I think it was Justice Alito --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, no, I mean, they --
they put it just -- just the way that -- that is not
good for you. "The panel is struck by the fact that
Respondents have been unable to cite any post-Bazzle
panels or arbitrators that construed their clauses as
prohibiting a class action."
That's not what -- what they have to find.
They must find positively that it permits a class
action.
MS. PILLARD: And it's our contention -- and I
think it's clear -- that they found that it was
permitted. And when you see that following --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just give me some language
that says that. I -- there is nothing in that paragraph
that says it.
MS. PILLARD: The -- the broad wording, the
"any dispute" -- now, they reject the notion -- they
expressly have rejected the notion that they are
supposed to do it as a matter of default.
And then I just want to address this
language, which I think could be confusing, at the
bottom of 51a, where they say they don't establish that
the parties -- this is the last paragraph on 51a: The
Respondents' evidence "does not establish that the
parties intended to preclude class arbitration."
You might read that as supporting the
argument that you are proffering. However, I believe
that the arbitrators meant that, that once they had
established under the "any disputes" language that there
was affirmative general authorization on the part of the
arbitrators to choose any procedures, to have this in
their toolbox, then in order to overcome that, you would
need to -- and the Petitioners were trying with their
maritime experts -- to show an intent to preclude.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So the only language you
can point to is that -- is that "any dispute" language
on 50a?
MS. PILLARD: That's right, and I think
that's very important.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are hanging your whole
-- your whole assertion that -- that these arbitrators
not only found that the contract did not prohibit it,
but found that the contract positively authorized class
action, upon that language on 50a?
MS. PILLARD: Together with the language on
49a where the panel expressly rejects the idea that all
you need is the absence of language forbidding it.
Right?
So they've already -- they've set the issue
up exactly as you -- your hypothetical would require
them to. They've said: It's not enough to find --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where -- where --
MS. PILLARD: It's on 49a, the second
sentence under the heading of "Discussion of Parties'
Contentions." They say, "Claimants argue that Bazzle
requires clear language that forbids class arbitration"
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: "Clear language" is the
point of that sentence. "Claimants argue that Bazzle
requires clear language that forbids class arbitration.
The panel, however, agrees with Respondents that the
test is a more general one. Arbitrators must look to
the language to ascertain the parties' intention whether
they intended to permit or to preclude class action."
MS. PILLARD: I would --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The point of those two
sentences is simply that in order for us to find that
you didn't preclude it -- and if you didn't preclude it,
it's okay -- you don't need clear language. We have to
look to everything.
MS. PILLARD: I -- I respectfully disagree,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's how I read
the two sentences.
MS. PILLARD: But I think that what's very
important here is that judicial review is under a very
deferential standard, which is confined to correcting --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's just
saying that they're -- they're giving up a lot. This
is the basic reason that you require, I thought, fairly
clear language that you are agreeing to arbitrate. They
are giving up their right to go into court. They have
an agreement between A and B that they will arbitrate a
dispute, and they say you are giving up your right to go
to court with the dispute between A and C.
And the "any dispute" language that you're,
you know, quite understandably relying on refers to any
dispute arising from the -- making performance or
termination of "this charter party." "This charter
party" says nothing about arbitrating with C.
MS. PILLARD: No, but this charter party is
the same agreement that the Petitioners have with every
absent class member. We wouldn't be here if every --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, but they can
agree to arbitrate. They can agree to arbitrate with
some and not with others, even if it's the same
contract. They may decide that your client is a very
reasonable person; they are happy to submit that to
arbitration.
Or it's a very big and important client, and
they don't want to get into court with you. They may
decide some other party, for whatever reason, they
don't want to get dragged into court with them. Same
charter party, different -- different parties --
MS. PILLARD: But they've --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- and different
results.
MS. PILLARD: Excuse me, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead.
MS. PILLARD: They've already entered into
agreement. They've already said they are going to
arbitrate with the absent class members, so everybody
has the same contract that says "any disputes,"
and the question is: Do the arbitrators, under that
broad language, have the authority?
And I would point this Court to the -- this
Court's decision in Mastrobuono, which read a clause
requiring arbitration of any controversy to empower
arbitrators to award punitive damages, and that was
despite established New York State law to the contrary.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's where I started
this. We don't get many contract interpretation cases,
and that's why I -- I needed to go back to Jack Dawson,
who is a great contracts professor. And I am --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I used to teach contracts.
Did you know that?
JUSTICE BREYER: What?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I used to teach contracts.
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't have that
pleasure, but the --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: The -- but the -- as I recall,
the way I would have interpreted -- imagine a worker who
says: I have a right, permission -- it's permissible
for me to eat lunch next to the machine. The employer
says no. The question was what is -- does the contract
permit this or not?
So the arbitrator or the judge reads the
words. Nothing. They have no idea. Then the judge or
the arbitrator reads the rest of the contract. Hasn't a
clue. Then the arbitrator or the judge goes and looks
and sees what's practice around here? "I don't know."
Then they might look to what happens in the rest of the
industry. Then they might look to what happens in
foreign countries with comparable industries. Then they
might look to public policy.
They might look almost to anything under the
sun they think is relevant, and the way, in jargon, you
describe the bottom line is: They have found a meeting
of the minds as to what this means.
Now, of course, it isn't really a meeting of
the minds. But that's just the summary of the
conclusion as to what, objectively read, those words in
the contract mean. Now, that's how I think I would have
learned it.
Is that still done, or is there some other
way of describing it?
MS. PILLARD: I think that's pretty good
contract law.
JUSTICE BREYER: If that's contract law --
MS. PILLARD: And that's the way I understand
it.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- then I take it what
they're saying is: It may be true that the arbitrators,
when they looked at some of those elements, really got
it wrong. Now, if they are correct on that -- this is
the other question I have. You are going to say: No,
they're not -- they didn't get it that wrong; wrong,
maybe, but not that wrong.
All right. Now, can they not do this? The
next person who has this form contract does not so
readily agree it's up to the arbitrator to say whether
that contains a class action or not. Rather, they say:
I read this contract as reserving that question to the
court. It's not the same language as was there in
Bazzle; it's not the same industry of the kind you had
in Bazzle; and, therefore, a judge should decide that.
That's the meeting of the minds on the who question. And
then we'll get it all resolved, because the judge might
come out differently if they're right, and maybe
arbitrators will follow the judge.
I'm interested, because we might have to write
something, in your answer to that question.
MS. PILLARD: I think that if they wanted to
write around it, they could do that, as this Court --
JUSTICE BREYER: Not -- we know they're
going to -- they have something already in place.
MS. PILLARD: Could it be interpreted to
say --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MS. PILLARD: -- this is a question for the
court?
JUSTICE BREYER: Uh-huh.
MS. PILLARD: I think -- I don't see the
language here in this contract, but they could try to do
that. There's nothing in the FAA that bars it.
And, you know, as we've emphasized, the
contract interpretation, under ordinary contract rules
that the FAA has consistently applied in -- and this
Court has consistently applied to the FAA in -- in many,
many cases -- it's ordinary contract law we're talking
about here.
Now, I just think one thing -- when we are
thinking about contract law, which is ordinarily in the
province of the States, I think it's important that the
New York Appellate Division, in Cheng v. Oxford Health
Plans, has since approved just such an arbitrator's
contract interpretation under New York law, allowing
class arbitration under a 1998 pre-Bazzle clause --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Allowing.
MS. PILLARD: -- like this one.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Allowing. See, that's
where I get hung up. There's a difference
in arbitration -- and it's a fundamental difference --
between allowing something and a background rule that
requires it if you don't say anything about it.
The difference I see with the hypothetical
Justice Breyer put is that you are talking about the
details of a contract once it's agreed there is a
contract. There's a contract that governs the
relationship between the employer and the employee, and
you're trying to figure out if it says anything about
where they eat lunch.
This is the much more fundamental issue of
whether you've even agreed to arbitrate with this
person. Is this guy your employee or just somebody who
came in off the street?
And I think what your brother's position is,
is that this is just somebody who came off the street;
the class members. I didn't agree to do anything with
them.
MS. PILLARD: Well, I think, Mr. Chief
Justice, that that goes back to whether any disputes can
plausibly be read to encompass the class mechanism,
because if it can, well, then, by agreeing to that
contract, you have, in effect, agreed to something that
delegates to the arbitrator the ability to use that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So --
MS. PILLARD: So when you picked --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I -- I --
MS. PILLARD: -- your arbitrator you picked
your arbitrator knowing that. And here, they had
extra notice, right, because this case had been filed
in court as a class action? They knew when they picked
these arbitrators -- and you can tell by the caliber of
arbitrators they picked -- that they knew this could be a
class arbitration, and so they are picking people who
are up to that task.
Now, they also know that they are going to
dispute that, but if we're right that the arbitrators,
plausibly and under the -- the Marrs standard of
judicial review, have -- have sustainably interpreted
this contract to give the arbitrators the authority to
proceed on a class basis, well, then, I think your
objection --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's --
that's what it comes down --
MS. PILLARD: -- Mr. Chief Justice,
disappears.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's what it comes
down to --
MS. PILLARD: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- whether it's an
interpretation of the contract to give the arbitrators
the authority to proceed on a class basis.
Not enough, right, under your view, if
there's nothing in there that precludes them from doing
so?
MS. PILLARD: I think that's a question of
State law. For example, under the State law at the time
in South Carolina, what the South Carolina Supreme Court
found in Bazzle was that the contract was silent, but
the -- applying two rules of contract construction,
contra proferentem -- well, one rule of contract
construction and one FAA rule, which is the Moses H.
Cone rule, the court said: We find this contract
authorizes it. Right? So there was contra proferentem.
There was also, which I haven't mentioned
and I should, the Moses H. Cone rule, which says when
there's any ambiguity about the scope of issues that
have been given to the arbitrator, we put a finger on
the scale in favor of giving the issue to the
arbitrator. So if it's unclear, any disputes, well,
maybe that only is about contract issues, where the
court in JLM said, no, it's antitrust, too --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what -- what
happens --
MS. PILLARD: -- and the arbitrators say
procedure, too.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What happens if you
get the arbitrator on the stand, and he says: As we read
the contract, it doesn't say -- and nothing about the
intent of the parties leads me to believe they meant --
you may arbitrate this on a class basis, but at the
same time there is nothing in there that says you may
not. And I looked at the intent of the parties
and background rules, and nothing there says you may
not.
What do you understand to be the answer? Can
they proceed on a class basis or not?
MS. PILLARD: I understand that to be
something that's answered by State contract law --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MS. PILLAR: -- and it might differ from State
to State.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. It's the
background rule --
MS. PILLARD: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- under which you
should interpret this.
MS. PILLARD: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So we have to
decide, when we -- when the contract says nothing about
class actions, whether the background rule should be you
can go ahead -- or the background rule should be you
can't go ahead.
MS. PILLARD: We, the arbitrators, decide
that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well --
MS. PILLARD: -- not we, the United States
Supreme Court. It's a question of State contract law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What the arbitrators
have already told us -- I think you disagree with it --
MS. PILLARD: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- but take it for
purposes of argument. What the arbitrators have told us
is that it doesn't say anything.
It doesn't say you can do it; it doesn't say
you can't do it. Now, assume that's true.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, you don't agree to
that, do you?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I know. I said
she doesn't agree with it.
But, I mean, assuming that's true, what's the
answer? Yes or no? Can they go ahead with class action
or not?
MS. PILLARD: They -- in my view, they
haven't answered that -- well, maybe they answered that
question under New York law. They have answered the New
York contract law question that was put to them.
I think they tee it up in a way that
Mr. Waxman and I agree is a valid statement of New York
contract law, which is on page 49. We look to the
parties' intent and the language to ascertain whether
they would permit or preclude --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would you help me with
one --
MS. PILLARD: And if they have applied that
and they have found yes, I think we have to -- under the
deferential standard of review that applies under FAA
section 10, which looks only at gross defects in the
process, we have to say they have done their job, they
have found this contract authorizes the arbitrators, if
they find that it's necessary, and -- you know, we do
have a right -- this argument here, which is that they
haven't done anything. They haven't decided whether --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask a question, a
very basic, elementary questions? Where in the record is
the specific question to the arbitrators found
-- that they were asked to respond to?
MS. PILLARD: Well, that's a good question.
In the arbitrators' own opinion?
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand what the
arbitrators said, but is there anything in the record
that says we want you to answer this narrow question,
and if so, what is it?
MS. PILLARD: The -- what I'm looking to,
and I'm not sure this is going to be the best cite for
you, but in the Petitioners' reply brief, they say,
the -- on page 6, "The parties certainly authorized the
arbitrators to determine whether the parties intended to
permit or prohibit class arbitration." And I do think
that's an accurate statement of what the arbitrators --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the record does not
contain --
MS. PILLARD: Got it.
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- the specific question
that arbitrators were asked to answer. Is that correct?
MS. PILLARD: I --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Because I haven't been
able to find it. I understand what they say they were
asked to answer, but I thought there would be some
document saying we've agreed to this supplemental
arbitration agreement, which is going to define what the
answer -- what is the question you have to answer.
MS. PILLARD: Right. Well, the supplemental
agreement does --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Because I don't think,
that -- from what I've been able to read, I don't think
they were ever asked the question whether the agreement
authorizes class action or class procedures. They were
only asked to decide whether it either permitted it or
precluded it, but is that what the question really was?
MS. PILLARD: Now, "permitted" I think they
take to understand as "authorize," and the reason -- and
this is something that the court, in the context of
Sixth Circuit Dub Herring case, says -- they explain why
do we use the language "permit"?
We use it because they are not saying
whether we are actually going to use this power; we are
just saying this power is available to you. But I
think, for purposes of whether the contract is giving
the authority to the arbitrators, that "permitted" means
"authorized."
JUSTICE STEVENS: See, as I understand it,
in the supplemental agreement, they were asked a
question about the meaning of the underlying arbitration
agreement.
MS. PILLARD: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But I can't find what that
specific question was, which seems, to me, answers the
whole case, if we could find out what it is.
JUSTICE BREYER: There's a supplemental
agreement here because I thought --
MS. PILLARD: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- in reading this, the
supplemental agreement submitted the case under Rule 3
--
MS. PILLARD: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- of the AAA, and it's
supplement --
MS. PILLARD: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- rule 3 of the AAA
supplementary rules says, an arbitrator shall, quote,
"determine, as a threshold matter, in a reasoned,
partial, final award, on the construction of the
arbitration clause, whether the applicable arbitration
clause permits the arbitration to proceed on behalf of
or against a class."
MS. PILLARD: Thank you.
JUSTICE BREYER: So I thought the
supplemental agreement said --
MS. PILLARD: Thank you.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- apply Rule 3, and
therefore, it was asking the arbitrators to decide the
question put in Rule 3. Is that right?
MS. PILLARD: I think that's correct, yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: So then we could get the
question by reading page 7 of the blue brief.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, is that what's on
56a of the joint appendix, Construction of the
Arbitration Clause? That's what Mr. Waxman referred us
to?
MS. PILLARD: Yes, that's right -- 56a of the
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: "Upon appointment, the
arbitrator shall determine, as a threshold matter."
JUSTICE SCALIA: What page?
MS. PILLARD: Are you at -- on the buff --
in the buff joint appendix? 56a?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. 56a.
MS. PILLARD: 56a. Exactly. It's -- I've
bracketed it here. It's under heading 3, Construction
of the Arbitration Clause.
"Upon appointment, the arbitrator shall
determine, as a threshold matter, in a reasoned,
partial, final award, on the construction of the
arbitration clause, whether the applicable arbitration
clause permits the arbitration to proceed on behalf of
or against a class."
So the question put to them is: Is it
permissible in that phase? And the question put to them
in the next phase is: Do you actually want to use it in
the context of this case?
I did want to address the language that --
that Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: May I -- you know, that
doesn't help me a lot. What does it mean, if it permits
it? I mean, I guess you could say, if there's a
background rule, that whether the parties agree to it
or not, it's okay.
Does "permits it" mean "authorizes it"? Does
-- does that mean whether the parties have agreed to it?
Is that what "permits" mean there?
MS. PILLARD: In my view, it means it
authorizes the arbitrators to choose. We are talking
here about a question of arbitration procedure, as this
Court correctly characterized it in Bazzle.
And, typically, what you have is an
arbitration clause that says you arbitrate any
disputes and, as this one does, it doesn't incorporate any
arbitration provider's rules; and, therefore, what you
have is the arbitrators have to select the procedures.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you and I have a --
MS. PILLARD: So they're not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry.
If you and I have a contract -- you're going
to sell me a car, and we write up a contract and we
enter into it, and it provides for arbitration if we
have a dispute. I also buy a car from Mr. Waxman, and I
Xerox that contract. It's the exact same contract.
We have a dispute, and we go to arbitration.
Can Mr. Waxman come in and say, I got the same contract,
and I've got the same dispute. Arbitrate with me, too?
MS. PILLARD: I would say that if
you have -- well, if they've chosen the arbitrator and
we have chosen the arbitrator, and it's the same
arbitrator and the arbitrator wants to put them
together, under this language, I would say the
arbitrator does have the authority to do that, yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Now, suppose
I have a contract just with you and -- to arbitrate --
or I -- I have the same contract with Mr. Waxman, but
it has no arbitration clause.
And he says, well, the dispute is the same,
you are arbitrating that, can I come in, too, and get
bound by your decision?
MS. PILLARD: I would say no.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You would say no.
And the reason is?
MS. PILLARD: He doesn't have an arbitration
agreement with you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not that I -- he
doesn't have any arbitration agreement with me or that
it's not the same arbitration agreement?
MS. PILLARD: He doesn't have an arbitration
agreement that has the same language, that has -- the
same or substantially similar language giving the
arbitrator the authority to use class procedures.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's say the intent
is pertinent when we enter into the contract, okay? And
there's good evidence about what you and I meant the
contract to mean, and there's not any evidence about
what Mr. Waxman and I meant the contract to mean. Say
we've got an arbitration clause in both cases.
Can we arbitrate -- can I be required to
arbitrate Mr. Waxman's contract with -- along with the
one that you and I have entered into?
MS. PILLARD: I think your question is
getting to we have evidence of subjective intent here
and none there, but the New York law, as is the law in
many jurisdictions, is an objective intent standard, so
you look to the language as evidence of intent.
And on this intent question, I did just want
to respond to a question that Justice Alito had asked
Mr. Waxman about Mr. Persky saying there has been no
agreement that has been reached on this issue, which is
in the joint appendix, the buff-colored appendix, on page
77a.
Now, he clarifies in the next sentence that
what he -- what he is speaking to there is there has
been no agreement to bar class arbitrations, right? But
this is in the context of disputes over whether this
maritime expert witness testimony is going to be
admitted. And I think it's very clarifying that two
pages later, at page 79a of the joint appendix, Mr.
Persky expressly makes the argument that we believe the
arbitrators adopted, which is that the arbitration
clause here contains broad language, and this language
should be interpreted to permit class arbitrations. And
at the end of the following paragraph he continues:
"Use of 'any' normally means all and includes class
arbitration" except -- "unless expressly excluded." So
he is two pages later making ­-
JUSTICE SCALIA: What page -- what page are
you quoting from?
MS. PILLARD: I'm -- I'm sorry. I'm quoting
from the buff-colored joint appendix at page 79a around
the middle of the page and then in the following
paragraph.
So he's clearly making the argument here,
and he doesn't make it in the brief that Mr. Waxman
cited.
And I think the arbitrators correctly
rejected the -- the Respondents' framing of that issue
and actually went further, as they say in their opinion.
They didn't think that those were adequate grounds to
rule for the Respondents, for us. They thought they had
to find an intent in the contract. And then Mr. Persky
does make that argument, which I think is the winning
argument, here on page 79a. Now --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I -- may I ask
you this question? Let's assume that you prevail in
this case. I -- I would assume that the tankers are now
going to add to their contract, as many contracts do, a
provision saying no class action -- you cannot proceed in
a class action. If the arbitration agreement says
agreed to arbitrate any and all disputes, but you may
not proceed on behalf of a class, would that preclude
you from bringing a class action any place?
MS. PILLARD: I think it would if -- and if
the -- that might be the exact kind of fact situation
that if the arbitrators somehow ignored that in reading
the contract and said, oh, you -- we still have the
authority to authorize a class, that is the kind of
thing that under this very deferential standard of
review might be exceeding their powers.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There are many, many
contracts -- and pick up your average credit card
agreement -- that will say you may not bring this as a
class.
MS. PILLARD: Many such contracts, and
indeed there are contracts that started doing that back
in the '90s. I think the case before -- Discover Bank
is a party that started to put express no-class-action
terms.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then you won't get --
you win this case, but then all the future AnimalFeeds
lose because they'll just put in the arbitration
agreement you can't proceed on class.
MS. PILLARD: That's right. But at least it
was incumbent on them to do that here if this was
something that they were so concerned about would be
such a burden on them. And the fact that they did not
do that, even though class arbitration has been
something that has been happening actively in California
for at least a quarter century -- this is one of the
largest, you know -- with an economy --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not in this industry,
however.
MS. PILLARD: I'm not so sure. I mean, we
don't have evidence that -- that it has been going on,
no, because this is a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MS. PILLARD: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Waxman, why don't you take 2 minutes?
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. WAXMAN: Okay. Three points, so I will
take 25 seconds for each point.
First of all, these contracts in the class
are not all the same. These are form contracts that are
drafted by the charterers and their brokers, and they
involve different clauses, including different
arbitration clauses.
The second point, the Rule 3, I think,
fairly does encapsulate the question that the parties
presented to the Court, which is to construe the
contract, the question that the Bazzle plurality sent
back. The AAA amicus brief in this case, which I
commend to the Court, on behalf of no party says over and
over and over again, we drafted the rules to provide
procedures to answer the Bazzle contract question. We
have no opinion about the answer to the Federal
statutory question that arises if the answer to the
-- the meeting-of-the-minds question is no meeting of the
minds as a matter of contract law.
And if you find -- and much of the
discussion this morning has focused on this -- that,
well, somehow the arbitrators did just decide the
meeting-of-the-minds question, they didn't decide the
legal consequences of no meeting of the minds, then just
as in Keating and as in Bazzle, you will not be able to
reach the very important, fundamental FAA statutory
question in this case. And the next generation of
lawyers will come before you or your successors to get
it answered.
Now, as to the contract question, I do want
to address your point, Justice Breyer, about the
toolbox. It is true that in answering the contract --
what is -- what did the parties intend? Was there
really a meeting of the minds here? And, by the way,
let me just say that when Ms. Pillard says, well, we
don't know whether the parties in this industry agreed
or disagreed, all of the -- the evidence was undisputed
that since the days of Marco Polo the background
principle in maritime law has been bilateral, rigorously
bilateral.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
14:2,3 20:20 23:4 allow 10:14 19:18 53:1 54:7 50:21 51:8 52:6
52:19,22 31:13,14 33:4 21:24 application 10:7 53:1,1,2,16
35:8,8,9 39:19 allowed 27:6 applied 8:9,13 54:3,7,7,8 55:1
61:18 54:19 alternatives applies 49:24 56:15,24 57:22
62:12 11:3,22 13:11 ambiguity 18:24 20:1,12 53:8 60:4,25
40:11 31:18 34:19 61:5 53:20 54:4 arbitrator 4:5
51:7 54:22 59:2 AnimalFeeds approved 44:6 15:2,20 18:7,12
agreeing 27:7 21:19 24:25 14:22 26:13,18 19:14 20:7,15
24:24 25:3 agreement 3:13 28:9 59:22 31:14 33:4 22:3,25 25:16
3:14,17,22 4:1 answer 5:4,7,10 34:20 39:5,7,19 25:25 41:12,14
31:1,18 4:4,15,16,22 5:24 6:19 9:6 39:19 40:11 41:15 42:21
33:25 11:16,21,25 10:4 13:22 17:2 44:24 47:18 45:11,15,16
13:3 14:1 15:15 17:15 23:11,14 55:4,18 56:1,25 47:5,7,15 52:23
37:18 15:16 17:17 24:23 43:7 57:1 59:2 53:21 54:4
42:22 18:3 21:6 22:17 47:23 49:9 arbitrating 55:20,21,22,22
49:9 25:12 26:19 50:14 51:2,6,9 31:15 39:14 55:24 56:18
58:25 28:17 29:7 30:5 51:9 61:8,9,10 56:5 arbitrators 3:11
30:20 31:16,25 answered 4:8,11 arbitration 4:6 3:18,25 4:8,10
54:14 57:11,16 59:1 answers 18:18 15:3 17:17 19:7 21:5,19
59:14,24 52:10 18:16 21:24,25 22:8,16,21
48:15 49:9 Appellate 44:5 29:1,4,24 31:5 34:17,21 35:1,6
21:10 53:15,24 57:12 36:24 38:5,9 43:5 45:19,20
46:2,13 authority 3:12 ballpark 4:11 6:17,20 7:2,7 23:18,23 26:11
48:16,21 3:21 4:9 9:24 Bank 59:18 7:19 8:2 9:5,10 26:11 28:25
50:2,8,11 15:3,7 17:19 bar 15:16 22:14 9:14,19,22 12:5 34:17,24 45:17
19:7,14,22,25 33:15 57:16 16:19 17:2,5,11 51:21 52:11,16
52:2 53:9 20:5,6 33:7 bars 43:20 18:2 40:20 41:1 54:13 58:23
55:7 34:14,22 40:14 based 33:18,19 41:3,6 42:9,12 59:18,22 61:5
58:13 46:2,14 52:2 basic 3:20 39:4 43:10,14,17 61:20 62:10,11
61:15 55:24 56:18 50:7 44:17 52:12,15 cases 11:17
38:4,8 37:4 46:14 47:18,24 brief 13:21 21:18 central 14:21
34:6 51:19 59:9 7:3,9,20 8:6,15 53:13 58:11 cert 23:18
3:4,7 7:17 37:17 50:19 13:19,20,23 26:13,14 21:1 50:19
24:10,23 52:3 21:4 22:3,4,4 bring 25:3 59:14 certiorari 8:11
28:8 authorizes 47:1 22:12 27:25 bringing 59:4 cetera 17:9
33:13,22 50:2 51:15 33:14 38:4,8 broad 31:25 change 26:25
48:25 50:4 54:21,25 42:25 43:1 35:20 36:15 27:2
58:10,19 available 11:19 46:21 55:2 61:4 40:14 57:23 characterize
60:17 34:12,13 51:25 61:8,18 brokers 60:23 12:4
13:25 award 14:10 behalf 1:16,18 buff 53:23,24 12:5 55:2
40:18 52:25 2:4,6,9 3:8 14:9 buff-colored charter 25:21
33:2 a.m 1:14 3:2 59:3 60:18 61:6 bulk 24:11 39:13,13,15
62:11 believe 37:1 burden 6:10 60:3 40:3
38:12 b 27:12 28:2,3,9 best 11:25 50:17 C Chief 3:3,9 29:9
31:15 39:7 bet 27:20 c 2:1 3:1 27:12 29:13 31:3,12
22:20 23:16 bilateral 27:8 caliber 45:19 32:14,21 33:9
29:16 50:9 59:17 61:5 bit 14:15 call 24:24 39:2,18 40:5,7
backdrop 19:9 blah 32:23,23 car 55:12,14 40:8 44:9,11
57:9 background blue 21:18,18 card 59:13 45:6,12,14 46:5
17:24 18:13 bottom 36:21 8:23 15:24 47:14 48:2,5,8
58:22,23 48:14 54:19 breadth 32:2 9:7 10:4 12:2 60:15 62:9
37:5 54:9 56:18 confined 29:19 46:23 47:1 CORNELIA
57:16,24 58:1 39:1 contract 4:20,25 1:18 2:5 29:11
20:10 60:21 consensual 15:6 9:1,11,15 10:7 15:12 16:3
26:12,12 class-action 7:15 consent 3:12 10:17,21 12:16 42:15 51:2
51:21 clause 4:6,22 8:9 8:14 13:4 15:4 12:17,21 13:23 53:11
27:1 28:4,9 consented 25:6 17:24 18:2,9,10 correctly 28:1
44:8 53:1,2,16 18:13,15,16 18:21 19:2 counsel 15:10
26:8,9 60:24,25 consistent 11:5 31:18 34:10 41:25
clear 5:20 14:20 consistently 35:9 37:16,17 court 1:1,13 3:10
38:4,8 32:19 33:14 consolidated 41:10,14 42:3,8 14:20 15:6
8:10 9:8 clue 41:15 53:15 54:2,6 47:8,16 48:1,12 26:9,12,17
11:2,17 coercion 8:14 constructions 48:20 49:14,17 29:14 39:6,9,25
13:5,6 coercive 15:7 20:12 50:2 52:1 55:11 40:2,15 42:24
15:3,17 17:14 construe 21:5 55:12,15,15,17 43:9,16,24
21:24 coherent 5:24 61:3 56:1,2,20,22,23 45:18 46:20,25
colleagues 8:1 construed 21:24 57:1 58:18,24 47:9 48:20
24:12,24 come 18:7 43:4 28:10 29:2 36:4 59:8 61:4,8,12 51:20 55:2 61:3
55:17 56:5 contain 50:24 61:23,25 61:6
27:6 28:5 61:21 contains 42:22 contracting courts 3:11 8:23
comes 46:6,9 57:23 35:10 10:16 12:23
31:1,18 commend 61:6 contemplated contracts 3:20 17:2 18:6 20:8
32:4 33:1 committed 9:1 4:19 5:9 25:21 26:1 20:12,25
comparable contend 12:12 29:2 40:23,24 Court's 27:22
41:19 contention 36:9 41:2 58:24 40:16
37:17 compels 31:16 Contentions 59:13,16,17 cover 18:9
39:17 completely 16:7 38:4 60:21,22 created 3:21
42:22 concerned 60:2 context 11:15 contractual 6:3 credit 59:13
45:4,8,18 conclude 19:3 14:19 17:12,13 28:15 critical 31:4
46:3,14 concluded 14:12 35:16 51:20 contrary 23:18 custom 16:15
48:13 21:14 54:13 57:17 40:19 17:8,25 19:8
50:21 conclusion 42:2 continues 57:25 controversy 20:17
53:3 Cone 46:25 47:3 contra 19:19 40:17
12:10 19:15 2:5,8 F
50:20 Division 44:5 establish 36:21 FAA 3:21 8:13
53:21 document 51:7 36:23 8:17 10:14 15:2
doing 21:4 26:4 established 37:3 15:5 17:19
9:2,3,7,22
17:23 drafted 13:21,25 6:13 49:24 61:19
13:3,20
60:23 61:7 et 1:3 17:9 fact 16:12 19:3
16:5
19:15
25:16
39:21 40:1
Dub 51:21 56:21,22 57:4,7 fairly 39:4 61:2
48:12,16
53:9
34:18 40:3 durum 16:20,22 exact 55:15 59:6 far 33:7
60:24,24 16:23 exactly 6:16 9:21 favor 47:6
13:19
43:4 18:23 21:19 11:8 14:20 16:1
24:12
50:5
E 2:1 3:1,1 37:24 54:1 figure 5:11,13
38:20 economy 60:7 exceeding 59:11 final 52:25 54:6
24:4 28:25
effect 45:10 exceeds 15:2 find 7:23 16:1
56:6
49:24
employee 44:20 experts 37:8 Fine 25:6,7
27:8 31:7 44:20 express 8:19 11:20 24:9
35:20,22 empower 40:17 12:18 14:13 60:21
37:10 encapsulate 61:2 16:12 18:25 five 7:3
encompass 21:1 22:1,5 flaw 24:22
55:14,16 35:22 45:8 28:17 59:19 fluidity 18:24
56:4 enforce 11:6 expressed 23:22 focused 61:14
32:1,10 ensure 14:22 10:24 11:1 followed 28:15
34:6,21 enter 55:13 56:20 36:17 37:20 following 36:11
40:12 45:7 entered 25:21 57:21 58:2 57:25 58:8
38:5,9 giving 39:3,6,8 happy 39:22 indented 21:22 irrespective 9:15
60:22 34:6 39:6,8 hear 3:3 industry 41:18 33:23 37:23
goes 7:21 26:7 help 49:20 54:17 intend 24:11 it's 52:19
35:22 going 6:9 17:21 Herring 51:21 intended 5:14 35:11
37:16,17 20:14 22:21 he's 58:10 10:9 12:1 22:18 I'll 23:14
46:21 27:12 33:17,18 history 13:15 28:21 30:21 I'm 11:13 14:15
50:2,8 34:12 40:10 hope 5:23 27:11 33:24 36:24 43:6 58:6,6
31:5 60:11 hypothetical 29:22,23 31:20 jargon 41:22
61:19 good 36:2 42:7 37:24 44:16 33:19 37:8 JLM 26:11 47:9
governing 19:18 I 56:19 57:4,6,7 join 25:25
38:11 gross 29:20 important 27:19 interpret 5:10 43:1,3,5
57:4 58:16 44:4 61:19 5:1 9:1 10:6,8 29:17 38:25
9:16 22:8 guy 44:25 incidental 3:24 46:13 17:13
25:2 26:3 include 12:18 interpreted 24:1 jurisdictions
27:5 H included 14:3 41:7 43:12 46:1 57:6
H 46:24 47:3 includes 58:1 57:24 Justice 3:3,9 4:2
59:12,21 hallmark 15:5 including 8:22 interpreting 4:15 5:7,9,15
8:2 9:5,6 60:15 61:24 44:3,7 46:19,19 manifest 12:8,10 41:23,25 43:2
62:9 48:1,20 49:13 12:11,13 19:15 61:11,17 62:2
10:10,20 49:14,17 57:5,5 manner 35:2 meeting-of-the...
11:4,8,11 K 61:12 62:7 Marco 16:17 61:11,16
12:5,8,12 Keating 61:18 lawyers 61:21 62:6 member 39:17
13:8,10 KENNEDY leads 47:17 maritime 16:1 members 28:18
15:8,13 19:11,21 20:4 learned 42:4 16:13,14 37:8 40:11 45:4
16:4 key 30:7 left 28:8 57:18 62:7 mentioned 47:2
17:2,5,11 kind 3:24 11:9 legal 8:16 10:7 Marrs 10:1 12:6 merely 25:15
18:2,5 21:2 42:25 59:6 10:12 14:11 45:25 methodology
20:4 59:9 15:4 61:17 Mastrobuono 30:19,20
21:10 knew 45:18,20 let's 19:8 22:7,20 40:16 middle 58:8
22:8,23 know 8:2,2 12:4 30:8 56:19 matter 1:12 3:24 minds 3:18 5:5
18:20 24:3 58:22 6:22,24 7:8 8:3 6:4,8 9:4 10:14
25:2 26:10 32:14 light 18:13,14 10:15 15:6 12:19,20 13:5
39:11 40:25 21:20 20:13,25 28:10 13:11 14:25
41:16 43:10,21 line 41:23 36:18 52:24 15:1 16:9 19:16
29:9,13 45:23 49:6 50:3 little 11:24 14:15 53:21 54:5 20:3,19 21:7,22
30:9,12 54:16 60:7 62:4 30:8 61:12 62:12 23:23 24:17
knowing 45:16 look 8:7,21 9:19 matters 8:3 41:24 42:1 43:2
32:5 13:9 17:5,8,23 17:20 61:12,17 62:2
17:24,24,25 mean 11:12,13 minutes 27:18
34:2,16 19:1,8 22:16 13:14 15:7 16:3 60:16
30:3,5
35:24,25 23:17 30:2,4,20 18:6,9,25 19:1 Misco 9:24
32:1,2
37:9,14 33:23,23 38:11 19:5 20:21 22:4 misinterpretat...
33:15
38:19 41:17,18 24:15 25:14 30:1
35:14,16
40:5,7 41:20,21 49:17 31:4 35:25 42:3 Mitsubishi
36:12,20
41:1 57:7 49:8 54:17,18 11:15
42:9 looked 7:2 42:14 54:21,22,23 model 17:17
38:5,7,9
43:10,14 47:20 56:22,23 60:10 morning 61:14
39:5
44:9,11 looking 4:21 meaning 52:6 Moses 46:24
40:14
45:7,12 12:20,22 13:19 meaningful 27:9 47:3
43:19
46:5,7,9 24:9 35:21 means 18:8,22
51:22 N
47:10,14 50:16 22:4 41:24 52:2
55:23 N 2:1,1 3:1
looks 41:15 54:24 58:1
57:7 narrow 50:14
49:4,6 49:25 meant 37:2 47:17
near 7:5
50:6,12 lose 26:8 59:23 56:21,23
51:1,4,12 lot 39:3 54:17 mechanism 34:9
lots 21:7 34:11 45:8
53:5,8,12 lower 28:19 meeting 3:17 5:5
lunch 41:9 44:22 6:4,8 9:4 10:14
37:21 38:18
55:8 12:19,20 13:5
56:8 13:11 14:24
16:1,2,14 machine 41:9 negotiate 19:10
57:9 15:1 16:9 19:16
40:19 making 7:14 neither 14:12
59:12 20:3,18 21:7,21
43:25 39:12 58:3,10 never 24:11,16
60:8,13 23:23 24:17
29:11 partial 52:25 22:18 23:6 37:19 38:2,14
44:5,7 13:17,22 20:18 participants 30:22 32:4,20 40:4,7,9 42:7
22:14 33:15 3:18 33:24 35:3,5,7 42:10 43:8,12
37:6 38:16 participation 35:10 38:13 43:15,18 44:10
36:16,17 ostensibly 21:3 parties 3:12,15 permits 14:8,17 48:16,19,23
5:19,21 6:25 10:9 11:3 54:17,21,23 50:16,25 51:3
owe 17:1 13:11,14 14:24 8:11 14:12 52:14,18,21
57:6 page 2:2 14:4 28:17,20 29:3 Persky's 21:21 place 43:11 59:4
12:20 13:3 22:11,12,21 30:5,6,20,21 42:20 44:25 plaintiffs 8:20
18:3 42:2 23:12 24:9 31:6 34:3,19 persuaded 25:3 Plans 44:6
50:19 53:13,22 54:22 61:2 62:1 Petitioners 1:4 pleasure 41:4
29:25 pages 57:20 58:3 31:7 32:24 33:1 39:16 50:18 7:25 8:15 10:10
54:20 paid 25:20 27:4 33:2,3 39:13,14 60:18 61:4
56:20 Panama 25:22 39:15 40:1,3 phase 54:11,12 point 24:15 26:14
panel 22:14 28:6 59:19 61:6 phrased 11:24 27:5 31:24
26:8 panels 36:4 7:13 32:23 picking 45:21 points 60:19
20:10 14:1 21:22 performing 21:2 Pillard 1:18 2:5 28:11,23 29:17
35:12 36:13,22 57:25 permissible 9:8 29:10,11,13,25 41:20
58:15 58:9 10:23 41:8 30:10,14,16,18 Polo 16:17 62:6
pardon 22:10 54:11 30:24 31:1,11 ports 25:22
51:24,25 34:15,23 37:5 36:1 44:17 47:5 R 3:1 rejected 32:20
19:9 proceed 4:17 59:19,23 reach 3:19 8:16 rejects 37:20
41:16 14:9 27:6 29:5 putative 28:17 10:16 61:19 relate 7:16
23:6,8 proceeded 25:10 read 25:12 30:3 relevant 41:22
30:23,24 proceedings Q 32:3 34:6,10 relied 31:25
3:23 quarter 60:6 36:25 38:22 relies 20:10
34:3 process 29:20 question 4:3,6,8 40:16 42:2,23 relying 39:11
37:8 50:1 4:25 5:1,3,4 6:1 45:8 47:15 remanded 10:18
proferentem 6:3,17,20,24 51:13 remedy 11:18
59:3 19:19 46:23 7:1,21 8:16,17 readily 42:21 remember 14:21
29:1 51:17 professor 40:23 9:10,14 10:4,12 11:25 33:21 reply 50:18
prohibit 4:23 12:15 13:23,25 59:7 22:21
37:16 50:21 22:24 23:14,24 18:8,8 41:25 require 18:10,19
24:21 prohibition 40:13 41:10 reason 9:16 56:25
28:25 proposition 5:25 43:15 46:18 39:4 40:1 51:19 14:5 18:10,19
20:23 48:20 49:13,14 56:9 22:13 27:25
provide 5:24 51:1,9,14,17 39:22 38:9 44:15
15:5 19:18 11:6,9 12:18 61:23 recall 41:6 resolve 3:25
16:13 19:1 questions 6:15 record 50:7,13 17:18
17:16,17 28:11,23 41:20 quote 14:6,9 18:3 35:14 23:13 25:19
38:20 48:24 49:6 55:8 20:24 21:11 settled 32:24 51:1 52:10
56:12,19 60:15 29:21 30:9,12 Sherman 11:16 33:10
29:12 33:16 rule 4:18 6:10 8:9 34:25 35:25 shippers 24:11 spot 16:17
36:3,23 15:5,23,24 16:1 38:1,7,15,21,22 37:8 standard 12:6
58:14,17 21:16 24:7 40:24 41:2 shrinking 25:16 30:19 39:1
44:14 46:23,24 58:4 60:8,13 side 20:9 57:6 59:10
15:2 rules 4:18,18 26:20 38:2 61:1 18:24,25 19:1 State 8:10 40:19
18:3 17:24 20:1 seconds 60:20 silent 4:24 5:6 48:4,20
19:15 47:21 52:23 49:25 8:20 10:17 49:16 50:22
29:18 55:6 61:7 see 6:14 17:6 12:17 13:7 States 1:1,13
46:1 run 9:23 19:8 21:6 32:6 15:14 16:7 44:4 48:19
59:11 running 24:20 33:24 36:11 18:11,21,21 statute 11:9
15:11,18 S 52:4 23:2,5,5,22 statutory 5:3
22:23 S 2:1 3:1 sees 41:16 46:21 8:17 11:17
31:11 saying 7:20,23 select 55:7 similar 32:3 13:24 61:10,19
34:1 9:17,23,25 selection 27:1 56:17 step 13:14
37:12,22 25:15 33:17 sell 55:12 simply 35:7 Stevens 10:11,20
41:8 35:19 39:3 send 16:23,23 38:16 10:25 11:4,8,11
43:4 42:13 51:7,23 26:15 situated 19:21 11:23 12:8,12
46:11 51:25 57:10 sending 13:18 situation 59:6 12:24 14:15
47:1 48:5 58:25 sense 12:17 19:5 Sixth 51:21 22:23 23:3,11
50:4 says 7:12 8:10,21 19:6 28:23 skip 22:22 28:2 23:15,25 24:5
53:10,18 9:25 13:24 15:9 31:19 sole 28:24 49:4,20 50:6,12
59:25 15:13 17:6,6 sensible 20:13 solely 3:12 50:23 51:1,4,12
31:3,12 40:12 41:8,10 57:14 sorry 21:12 3:4
44:21 47:3,15 sentences 38:16 32:22 33:21 street 45:1,3
34:2,16 47:19,21 48:12 38:23 55:10 58:6 strict 28:15
40:5,8 50:14 51:21 separate 5:3 6:15 sort 25:22 31:9 struck 36:2
45:12 52:23 55:4 56:4 9:16 25:25 South 8:8,12,23 subject 19:15
46:5,9,12 59:1 61:6 62:3 set 31:2 37:23 15:24 46:20,20 subjective 57:4
48:2,5 scale 47:6 SETH 1:16 2:3,8 speaking 57:15 submission 13:1
tee 49:15 6:21 8:3 17:7,8 U W
52:16 termination 7:13 53:5 58:17 unclear 47:7 39:25 40:2
32:24 39:13 thoughtful 11:14 unconscionable 50:14 54:12,14
59:20 threshold 52:24 understand 11:4 25:3 43:8
test 22:15 38:11 time 24:20,21 18:8 33:5 42:10 Washington 1:9
60:14,15 62:9 48:22,25 8:6 15:8 23:21 4:2,14 5:8,15
14:1 51:7 theory 28:15 37:6 61:25 18:14 6:19 7:1,5,18
52:5,12 there's 4:2 8:19 tools 20:16 21:7 understood 30:4 7:24 8:5 9:9,13
53:6 18:25 22:4 treatment 4:7,24 31:4 9:18,21 10:3,20
52:12 56:21,22 22:1 26:16 undoubtedly 4:4 11:12 12:3,10
they're 23:4 39:3 Tree 8:21 28:5 14:19 15:12,18
46:20 48:20 27:10 13:7 21:13,15 up-to-date 5:23 20:8,22,25
19:6,13 20:8,22 try 5:11,12 17:6 19:17,19 20:16 23:2,10,13,16
37:12 34:18 37:7 51:24 54:12 26:23 27:4,11
51:19 46:3,18 48:22 17:18 18:3 21:6 v 1:5 3:5 44:5 56:2,23 57:10
49:15,23 50:21 23:7 35:12 valid 16:25 49:16 58:11 60:16,17
35:15 52:1 53:11 57:3 57:19 58:3 vanishing 24:24 Waxman's 57:1
44:17 57:19 58:13,16 twofold 5:25 view 12:24,25 way 5:12,19 12:5
58:19 59:5,18 two-part 11:19 13:24 46:15 16:13 19:3 36:1
10:02 1:14 3:2 53:13
2 60:16 9
22 21:17,18 90s 59:18
3
42:2 14:2,3 22:7
29:4
49:17
22:12 23:12
33:11
38:2
42:15,17
5
30:7,10
37:11,18
28:13
36:21,22
44:5,7 56a 53:15,18,24
53:25 54:1
59 30:2
2:9
67a 32:17
1:5 3:4 69a 32:18
