IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER, GOVERNOR :
OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 08-1448
ENTERTAINMENT MERCHANTS :
ASSOCIATION, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 2, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ZACKERY P. MORAZZINI, ESQ., Supervising Deputy Attorney
General, Sacramento, California; on behalf of
Petitioners.
PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
ZACKERY P. MORAZZINI, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ZACKERY P. MORAZZINI, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 56
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 08-1448,
Schwarzenegger v. Entertainment Merchants Association.
Mr. Morazzini.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ZACKERY P. MORAZZINI
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. MORAZZINI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The California law at issue today before
this Court differs from the New York law at issue in
Ginsberg in only one respect: Where New York was
concerned with minors' access to harmful sexual material
outside the guidance of a parent, California is no less
concerned with a minor's access to the deviant level of
violence that is presented in a certain category of
video games that can be no less harmful to the
development of minors.
When this Court in Ginsberg crafted a rule
of law that permits States to regulate a minor's access
to such material outside the presence of a parent, it
did so for two fundamental reasons that are equally
applicable this morning in this case.
First, this rule permits parents' claim to
authority in their own household to direct the
upbringing and the development of their children; and,
secondly, this rule promotes the States' independent
interest in helping parents protect the well-being of
children in those instances when parents cannot be
present.
So this morning, California asks this Court
to adopt a rule of law that permits States to restrict
minors' ability to purchase deviant, violent video games
that the legislature has determined can be harmful to
the development and the upbringing -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What's a deviant -- a
deviant, violent video game? As opposed to what? A
normal violent video game?
MR. MORAZZINI: Yes, Your Honor. Deviant
would be departing from established norms.
JUSTICE SCALIA: There are established norms
of violence?
MR. MORAZZINI: Well, I think if we look
back -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, some of the Grimms'
fairy tales are quite grim, to tell you the truth.
(Laughter.)
MR. MORAZZINI: Agreed, Your Honor. But the
level of violence -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are they okay? Are you
going to ban them, too?
MR. MORAZZINI: Not at all, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What's the difference? I
mean, if you -- if you are supposing a category of
violent materials dangerous to children, then how do you
cut it off at video games? What about films? What
about comic books? Grimms' fairy tales?
Why are video games special? Or does your
principle extend to all deviant, violent materials in
whatever form?
MR. MORAZZINI: No, Your Honor. That's why
I believe California incorporated the three prongs of
the Miller standard. So it's not just deviant violence.
It's not just patently offensive violence. It's
violence that meets all three of the terms set forth
in -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think that misses
Justice Ginsburg's question, which was: Why just video
games? Why not movies, for example, as well?
MR. MORAZZINI: Sure, Your Honor. The
California Legislature was presented with substantial
evidence that demonstrates that the interactive nature
of violent -- of violent video games where the minor or
the young adult is the aggressor, is the -- is the
individual acting out this -- this obscene level of
violence, if you will, is especially harmful to minors.
It -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, do you actually have
studies that show that video games are more harmful to
minors than movies are?
MR. MORAZZINI: Well, in the record, Your
Honor, I believe it's the Gentile and Gentile study
regarding violent video games as exemplary teachers.
The authors there note that video games are not only
exemplary teachers of pro-social activities, but also
exemplary teachers of aggression, which was the
fundamental concern of the California Legislature in
enacting this statute.
So, while the science is continually
developing -- indeed, it appears that studies are being
released every month regarding -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What was the -
JUSTICE KAGAN: And suppose -- suppose a new
study suggested that movies were just as violent. Then,
presumably, California could regulate movies just as it
could regulate video games.
MR. MORAZZINI: Well, Your Honor, there is
scientific literature out there regarding the impact of
violent media on -- on children. In fact, for decades,
the President, Congress, the FTC, parenting groups have
been uniquely concerned with the level of violent media
available to minors that they have ready access to.
So -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't know -- is that
answering Justice Kagan's question? One of the studies,
the Anderson study, says that the effect of violence is
the same for a Bugs Bunny episode as it is for a violent
video. So can the legislature now, because it has that
study, say we can outlaw Bugs Bunny?
MR. MORAZZINI: No -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And there are people who
would say that the cartoon has very little social value;
it's entertainment but not much else. This is
entertainment.
I'm not suggesting that I like this video,
the one at issue that you provided the five-minute clip
about. To me, it's not entertainment, but that's not
the point. To some, it may well be.
MR. MORAZZINI: Justice Sotomayor, cartoons
do not depart from the established norms to -- of a
level of violence to which children have been
historically exposed to. We believe the level of
violence in these video games -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That same argument could
have been made when movies first came out. They could
have said, oh, we've had violence in Grimms' fairy
tales, but we've never had it, you know, live on the
screen. I mean, every time there's a new technology,
you can make that argument.
MR. MORAZZINI: Well, Your Honor, I think
that's the beauty of incorporating the three prongs of
the Miller standard into California's law. This
standard is very prophylactic and ensures that only a
narrow category of material will be covered, certainly
not Grimms' fairy tales.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How is this any
different than what we said we don't do in the First
Amendment field in Stevens, where we said we don't look
at a category of speech and decide that some of it has
low value. We decide whether a category of speech has a
historical tradition of being regulated. Now, other
than some State statutes that you point to, some of
which are very clearly the same as those that we struck
down in Wynn, where's the tradition of regulating
violence?
MR. MORAZZINI: Your Honor, California
submits that when the rights of minors are at issue and
not the rights of adults, the standard should be more
flexible. The Constitution should recognize that when
the audience is minors, the same standard should not
apply. Therefore, the question should not be whether or
not historically violent speech was regulated, but
whether or not the Constitution guarantees minors a
right -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you get rid of rap
music? Have you heard some of the lyrics of some of the
rap music, some of the original violent songs that have
been sung about killing people and about other violence
directed to them?
MR. MORAZZINI: I would agree that it -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could the State -
MR. MORAZZINI: I would agree it's
egregious, Justice Sotomayor. However -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why isn't that obscene
in the sense that you're using the word, or deviant?
MR. MORAZZINI: Well, I'm not sure initially
that it's directly harmful to the development of minors
in the way that we know that violent video games can be.
We know that violent material, like sexual material,
appeals to a base instinct in -- in especially minors.
It has -- it can be presented in a manner that -
JUSTICE ALITO: When you talk about minors,
what -- what are you -- what age group are you talking
about? If a video game manufacturer has to decide under
your statute how to -- where its game stands, what age
of -- of a child should the manufacturer have in mind?
A 17-year-old? A 10-year-old?
MR. MORAZZINI: Your Honor, I would submit
that, just like in the obscenity context for minors, a
law similar to the New York law at issue in Ginsberg,
though California's law hasn't been construed or
applied, I would submit that the jury would be
instructed to consider minors as a whole. In California
that's under 18 years old. So I believe they would just
be instructed minors as a class, not -
JUSTICE ALITO: How can they -- how can they
do that? Isn't the average person likely to think that
what's appropriate for a 17-year-old may not be
appropriate for a 10-year-old or an 8-year-old?
MR. MORAZZINI: Your Honor, I think juries
and judges do this every day in the
variable obscenity -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But California doesn't do
that. California has in big letters "18." So it's not
-- is it okay for a 7-year-old? Is it okay for a
12-year-old? Part of this statute requires labeling
these video games in big numbers "18." So it's 18, and
California doesn't make any distinctions between
17-year-olds and 4-year-olds.
MR. MORAZZINI: Justice Ginsburg, and I
think rightfully so. I think a jury would be charged
with -- with perhaps the standard of what the community
believes an average minor. So the manufacturer would
consider -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because the average minor
is halfway between 0 and 18, is that 9 years old?
(Laughter.)
MR. MORAZZINI: Fair point, Justice Scalia.
I think a jury could be instructed as to the typical age
group of minors that are -- that are playing these
games.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why wouldn't you, if
necessary, simply say that -- that a -- a video game
that appeals to the prurient, shameful, or morbid
interests of those 18 or under, but let's take 18, and
it's not suitable in the community for those 18, and it
has no redeeming importance of any kind, no serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for
those 18, that at least as to those, you can't sell it
without -- the parent can buy it, but the child can't
buy it. So you can't sell to a 12-year-old something
that would be horrible for an 18-year-old. Is that -
would you be willing to accept that, if necessary, to
make this okay on its face?
MR. MORAZZINI: Justice Breyer, absolutely.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Morazzini, could I take
you back to Justice Scalia's original question, which
was what counts as deviant violence or morbid violence?
Because I read your briefs all the way through, and the
only thing that I found was -- you said was clearly
covered by this statute was Postal 2. But presumably
the statute applies to more than one video game. So
what else does it apply to? How many video games? What
kind of video games?
I mean, how would you describe in plain
English what -- what morbid violence is, what you have
to see in a video game for it to be covered?
MR. MORAZZINI: Okay, Justice Kagan, I would
go back to the language of the statute, and the statute
covers video games where the range of options available
to the player includes maiming, killing, dismembering,
torturing, sexually assaulting, and those types of
violence. So I would look to games where -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So anything that has those
kinds of violence counts?
MR. MORAZZINI: No, and then we would move
to the three prongs of the Miller standard, Your Honor.
We would look to see what -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, so how do we separate
violent games that are covered from violent games just
as violent that are not covered?
MR. MORAZZINI: Well, Your Honor, I think a
jury could be instructed with expert testimony, with
video clips of game play, and to judge for
themselves whether -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not concerned about the
jury judging. I'm concerned about the producer of the
games who has to know what he has to do in order to
comply with the law. And you're telling me, well, a
jury can -- of course, a jury can make up its mind, I'm
sure. But a law that has criminal penalties has to be
clear. And how is the manufacturer to know whether a
particular violent game is covered or not?
MR. MORAZZINI: Well, Your Honor, if we
look -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would he convene his own
jury and -- and try it before -- you know -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I really wouldn't know
what to do as a manufacturer.
MR. MORAZZINI: Justice Scalia, I'm
convinced that the video game industry will know what to
do. They rate their video games every day on the basis
of violence. They rate them for the intensity of the
violence, the amount -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So is what's covered here
the -- the mature category in the ratings? Is that what
this statute covers? Is that what it's meant to cover?
MR. MORAZZINI: I believe that some mature
rated games would be covered, but not all.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Some, but not all.
MR. MORAZZINI: But not all.
Your Honor, just like with sexual material,
we can -- we can trust individual panderers of sexual
material to judge whether or not it's a -- it's in -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me just make one
comment on that point. It seems to me all or at least
the great majority of the questions today are designed
to probe whether or not this statute is vague. And you
say the beauty of the statute is that it utilizes the
categories that have been used in the obscenity area and
that -- that there's an obvious parallel there.
The problem is, is that for generations
there has been a societal consensus about sexual
material. Sex and violence have both been around a long
time, but there's a societal consensus about what's
offensive for sexual material, and there are judicial
discussions on it. Now, those judicial discussions are
not precise. You could have had the same questions
today with reference to an obscenity statute, and we
have -- we have said that with reference to obscenity,
there are certain -- that there are certain materials
that are not protected. Those rules are not precise at
the margins, and some would say not precise in a more
significant degree as well.
But you're asking us to go into an entirely
new area where there are no consensus, no judicial
opinions. And this is -- and this indicates to me the
statute might be vague, and I just thought you'd like to
know that -- that reaction.
(Laughter.)
MR. MORAZZINI: Justice Kennedy, as with
sexual -- the regulation of sexual material and
obscenity, we had to start somewhere. California is
choosing to start now. We can build a consensus as to
what level of violence is in fact patently offensive for
minors, is deviant for minors, just as the case law has
developed over time with sexual depictions. Your Honor,
I believe the key is the -- the similarities violence
has with sex. This is material -
JUSTICE SCALIA: What about excessive
glorification of drinking, movies that have too much
drinking? Does that have an effect on minors? I
suppose so.
I -- I am not just concerned with the
vagueness. I am concerned with the vagueness, but I'm
concerned with the First Amendment, which says Congress
shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech. And
it was always understood that the freedom of speech did
not include obscenity. It has never been understood
that the freedom of speech did not include portrayals of
violence.
You're -- you're asking us to create a -- a
whole new prohibition which the American people never -
never ratified when they ratified the First Amendment.
They knew there were -- you know, obscenity was -- was
bad, but what's next after violence? Drinking?
Smoking? Movies that show smoking can't be shown to
children? Does -- will that affect them? Of course, I
suppose it will.
But is -- is that -- are -- are we to sit
day by day to decide what else will be made an exception
from the First Amendment? Why -- why is this particular
exception okay, but the other ones that I just suggested
are not okay?
MR. MORAZZINI: Well, Justice Scalia, I
would like to highlight the fact that the material at
issue in Ginsberg was not obscene. Under no existing
definition of obscenity was the partial nudity that this
Court allowed States to regulate minors' access to -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I think what
Justice Scalia wants to know is what James Madison
thought about video games.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE ALITO: Did he enjoy them?
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I want to know what
James Madison thought about violence. Was there any
indication that anybody thought, when the First
Amendment was adopted, that there -- there was an
exception to it for -- for speech regarding violence?
Anybody?
MR. MORAZZINI: Your Honor, as to minors, I
believe, looking at some of the historic statutes States
had passed, had enacted in the past, there was a social
recognition that there is a level of violent material -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the earliest
statute?
MR. MORAZZINI: Pardon?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the earliest
statute and how much enforcement was entered?
MR. MORAZZINI: Your Honor, I don't know the
earliest statute off the top of my head. I believe they
go back into the early 1900s, perhaps later. I
apologize, but I don't know that -
JUSTICE BREYER: But, on the principle, I
mean, it's been quite some years, hasn't it, before this
-- since this Court has held that one instance that
courts -- that the country, legislatures, can regulate
are fighting words? And we regulate fighting words,
don't we?
MR. MORAZZINI: Absolutely.
JUSTICE BREYER: Because they provoke
violence. And the American Psychological Association
and the American Pediatric Association have said that
certain kinds of video games here create violence when
children are exposed. There are 80 people who think to
the contrary. There are two huge things of meta
studies that think that -- not to the contrary. All
right. So what are we supposed to do?
MR. MORAZZINI: Well, Justice Breyer, I
think, in going back to Justice Scalia's question, I
find it hard to believe, and I know of no historical
evidence that suggests, that our Founding Fathers, in
enacting the First Amendment, intended to guarantee
video game retailers' First Amendment right -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I go back to -- to
what Justice Breyer was asking? Because this Court,
with respect to the fighting words -- Chaplinsky and "in
your face" and provoke an immediate action -- the Court
has been very careful to cordon that off so it doesn't
have this spillover potential. So you -- you didn't
latch on to fighting words. Your analogy is to
obscenity for teenagers, as I understand it.
MR. MORAZZINI: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. With
regard to fighting words, the -- the societal interest
in preventing acts of violence is -- is different than
the concern at issue here today.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So could I just make -- make
sure I understand that, Mr. Morazzini, because, as I
understand, the State has given up its argument that the
interest protected by this law is an interest in
preventing minors who see these games from going out and
committing violent acts themselves; that the State is
not saying that that's the interest in the law; is that
correct? That instead the State is saying that the
interest in the law is in protecting children's moral
development generally?
MR. MORAZZINI: Justice Kagan, we welcome
that as -- as an effect of California's regulation, but
the primary interest was the internal intrinsic harm to
minors. That's what the State of California is deeply
concerned with in this case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I have a point of
clarification. Justice Ginsburg talked about the
labeling parts of this Act. The circuit court struck
those portions of the Act. You have not challenged that
ruling.
MR. MORAZZINI: Justice -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There are two sections
to the Act.
MR. MORAZZINI: Sure.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: One is a criminal act
for selling to a minor, and the other is a requirement
that you label in a certain way each video. The
district court said both were -- I think the circuit
court said both were unconstitutional, correct?
MR. MORAZZINI: Yes, Justice Sotomayor.
They found -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And your brief has not
addressed the labeling requirements at all.
MR. MORAZZINI: Well, we didn't, Your Honor,
because one holding of the Ninth Circuit hinged upon the
other. In striking down the body of California's law,
the restriction on the sale, the court found that since
it's not illegal to sell these games to 18-year-olds,
that the governmental purpose served behind the label
itself was -- was in fact misleading. So under the
Zauderer case law -- I don't have the case cite before
me -- but under Zauderer regarding lawyers' advertising
of -- of services, it's -- the government can require a
labeling, so long as it's necessary to prevent
misleading the consumer.
The Ninth Circuit found that because they
struck down the body of our law, that the "18" label
would be misleading. So that -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's an interesting
concession on your part, that the labeling doesn't have
a need separate from the restriction on sale. I would
have thought that if you wanted a lesser restriction,
that you would have promoted labeling as a reasonable
strict scrutiny restriction to permit the control of
sale of these materials to minors, but you seem to have
given up that argument altogether.
MR. MORAZZINI: Justice Sotomayor, I
certainly did not attempt or intend to concede that the
Ninth Circuit's opinion was correct in any sense in this
case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you have conceded
it by not appealing it, but okay. We're not -- your
case on labeling rises and falls on the sale to minors?
MR. MORAZZINI: At this point, I would
agree, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does California -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I gather that -- that if -
if the parents of the minor want the kid to watch this
violent stuff, they like gore, they may even like
violent kids -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- then -- then the State
of California has no objection, right? So long as the
parent buys the thing, it's perfectly okay.
MR. MORAZZINI: Your Honor, under Ginsberg,
they're entitled to direct the development and the
upbringing of their children in the manner they see fit.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. MORAZZINI: It's important to the State
of California that the parent -- that we ensure that the
parent can involve themselves in this important
decision.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so that's basically
all this is, is a -- a law to help parents; is that
right?
MR. MORAZZINI: It's one of the two
fundamental interests that are served by this law, yes,
ensuring that parents can involve themselves in the
front end. California sought to erect a barrier in
between a retail sales clerk and a minor with regard to
violent material, just as we allow for minors' access to
sexual material, because California sees that the
developmental harm that could be caused to minors is no
less significant than that recognized by this Court in
-- in Ginsberg with regard to minors' exposure to sexual
material. Now, again, the material at issue in Ginsberg
was not obscene.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think there's any
barrier in California to minors' access to sexual
material?
MR. MORAZZINI: I -- I believe California
has a law, Penal Code Section 313.1.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: California has a
Ginsberg-type law.
MR. MORAZZINI: Yes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Does your office spend a lot
of time enforcing that?
MR. MORAZZINI: I'm not aware,
Justice Alito. But there is a proscription on the sale
of sexual material to minors. It's defined as harmful
to minors, similar to California's Act. In fact,
California's Act, in incorporating the three prongs of
Miller, goes even further than the Ginsberg law at issue
in Ginsberg v. New York.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there -- you've been
asked questions about the vagueness of this and the
problem for the seller to know what's good and what's
bad. California -- does California have any kind of an
advisory opinion, an office that will view these videos
and say, yes, this belongs in this -- what did you call
it -- deviant violence, and this one is just violent but
not deviant? Is there -- is there any kind of opinion
that the -- that the seller can get to know which games
can be sold to minors and which ones can't?
MR. MORAZZINI: Not that I'm aware of,
Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You should consider
creating such a thing. You might call it the California
office of censorship. It would -- it would judge each
of these videos one by one. That would be very nice.
MR. MORAZZINI: Your Honor, we -- we ask
juries to judge sexual material and its appropriateness
for minors as well. I believe that if -- if we can view
the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do we let the government do
that? Juries are not controllable. That's the
wonderful thing about juries, also the worst thing about
juries. But -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: But do we let government
pass upon -- you know, a board of censors? I don't
think so.
MR. MORAZZINI: Justice Scalia, California's
not doing that here. The standard is quite similar to
that in the sexual material realm. California is not
acting as a censor. It is telling manufacturers and
distributors to look at your material and to judge for
yourselves whether or not the level of violent content
meets the prongs of this definition.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I can see your white
light's on. But even if we get past what I think are
difficult questions about vagueness and how to interpret
this law, isn't there a less restrictive alternative
with the -- a V-chip?
MR. MORAZZINI: Well, Your Honor, I believe
you're referring to the parental controls that are
available -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. MORAZZINI: -- on some of the new
machines. As we submitted in our briefing, a simple
Internet search for bypassing parental controls brings
up video clips instructing minors and young adults how
to bypass the parental controls, so -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So V-chips don't work.
MR. MORAZZINI: I believe the V-chip is
limited to television, Justice Kennedy.
If I could reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Morazzini.
MR. MORAZZINI: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Smith.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITH
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. SMITH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The California law at issue restricts the
distribution of expressive works based on their content.
California, as we've heard today, does not seriously
contend that it can satisfy the usual First Amendment
standards that apply to such a law. Instead, it's
asking this Court to grant it a new free pass, a
brand-new Ginsberg-like exception to the First Amendment
that would deny constitutional protection to some
ill-defined subset of expressive works and, I submit,
not just video games, but necessarily movies, books, and
any other expressive work that describes or portrays
violence in a way that some court somewhere, some day,
would decide is deviant and offensive.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about -- the
distinction between books and movies may be that, in
these video games, the child is not sitting there
passively watching something; the child is doing the
killing. The child is doing the maiming. And I suppose
that might be understood to have a different impact on
the child's moral development.
MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, it might. The
-- the State of California has not marshaled a shred of
evidence to suggest it's true. And if you look at the
social science -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What was -- what was
the state of the record that was present before the
Court in Ginsberg?
MR. SMITH: The state of the record was that
they were aware of science on both sides, but made a
judgment that as a matter of common sense, they could
decide that obscenity, even somewhat at-large
obscenity -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the Court acted
on the basis of common sense?
MR. SMITH: Yes. It said as long as there's
science on both sides, but in that particular area,
which is an exception based -- that goes back to the
founding, they felt that it was -- it was proper for
them to adjust the outer boundaries of the exception.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the material wasn't
obscene. They were girlie magazines. I imagine to
today's children they would seem rather tame -
MR. SMITH: Well -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- the magazines
involved. But they were definitely not obscene with
respect to adults.
MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, that's
certainly true, but one of the things about the case
that is important to recognize, they didn't pass on the
particular material before the Court. They simply said,
is this somewhat larger a definition of variable
obscenity going to be acceptable to -
JUSTICE BREYER: Talking about common sense,
why isn't it common sense to say that if a parent wants
his 13-year-old child to have a game where the child is
going to sit there and imagine he's a torturer and
impose gratuitous, painful, excruciating, torturing
violence upon small children and women, and do this for
an hour or so, and there is no social or redeeming
value, it's not artistic, it's not literary, et
cetera -- why isn't it common sense to say a State has
the right to say, parent, if you want that for your
13-year-old, you go buy it yourself. Which I think is
what they're saying.
MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, the State has
to have some reason to think that parents -
JUSTICE BREYER: It does, it does. What it
has is -- and I've looked at the studies, perhaps not as
thoroughly as you, but it seemed to me that Dr. Ferguson
and Dr. Anderson are in a disagreement. They aren't in
that much of a disagreement actually, but they've looked
in depth at a whole lot of video games, not movies
they're talking about or other things; they're talking
about video games.
And both groups come to the conclusion that
there is some tendency to increase violence. And the
American Psychiatric -- Psychological Association and
the American Pediatric Association sign on to a long
list on -- I think it's the Anderson side that this does
hurt children.
I have to admit that if I'm supposed to be a
sociological expert, I can't choose between them. But
if I can say could a legislature have enough evidence to
think there's harm, the answer is yes.
MR. SMITH: There is two aspects of harm.
The one I was about to address was the question of
whether parents need additional help in exercising the
role that they have played throughout the history -
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. They need additional
help because many parents are not home when their
children come home from school. Many parents have jobs,
I -- we hope. And -- and when -- when their children
are there, they do what they want. And all this says
is, if you want that gratuitous torture of, let's say
babies, to make it as bad as possible, what you do,
parent, is you go buy it; don't let him buy it on his
own, and he's 13 years old. Now, what's the common
sense or what's the science of that?
MR. SMITH: Well, two aspects. With respect
to parental controls, Your Honor, there's a whole
variety -- a whole series of things that parents have
available to them and are using today to deal with any
concerns that they have about what's appropriate for
their children.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't want to
interrupt your answer, but any 13-year-old can bypass
parental controls in about 5 minutes.
MR. SMITH: That is one element of about
five different elements, Your Honor. And if I could
talk about them -- there is the ratings. Parents are
doing the purchasing 90 percent of the time. Even if
the child does the purchasing, they bring the game home,
the parent can review it.
The game is being played in the home on the
family television or computer most of the time. Any
harm that's supposed to be inflicted on them is supposed
to take place over a period of years, not minutes, so
the parent has ample opportunity to exercise parental
supervision over what games are being played in the
house. Plus there is the parental controls, which are
very similar to the ones that the Court has found to be
significant in the Playboy case, in the COPA case, in a
whole variety of cases.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How much do these videos
cost?
MR. SMITH: They cost in the range of $50 to
$60 when new, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not too many 13-year-olds
walk in with a $50 bill, do they?
MR. SMITH: It seems very likely that the
people, if there are any out there, buying games without
parental permission -- which the State, by the way, has
not even tried to show -- they are very likely in the
16-year-old category. The -
JUSTICE BREYER: You're away from the common
sense. If you're going back to the common sense of it,
what common sense is there in having a state of the law
that a State can forbid and says to the parent the
child, the 13-year-old, cannot go in and buy a picture
of a naked woman, but the 13-year-old child can go in
and buy one of these video games as I have described?
I've tried to take as bad a one as I could think of,
gratuitous torture of children. Okay? Now, you can't
buy a naked woman, but you can go and buy that, you say
to the 13-year-old. Now -- now, what sense is there to
that?
MR. SMITH: Well, there's -- there's various
aspects of this that I think it's important to
understand. First of all, violence has been a feature
of works that we create for children and encouraged them
to watch throughout the history of this country. We
have a very different sense of whether violence
per se -
JUSTICE BREYER: You mean love is not
something that people have tried to encourage children
to understand and know about? I mean, what's the
difference between sex and violence? Both, if anything?
MR. SMITH: There's a huge difference. The
difference is -
JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you. I understand
that.
(Laughter.)
MR. SMITH: We do not -- the difference is
we do not make films for children in which explicit sex
happens. We do make films for children in which graphic
violence happens -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Graphic violence.
There is a difference. We do not have a tradition in
this country of telling children they should watch
people actively hitting schoolgirls over the head with a
shovel so they'll beg with mercy, being merciless and
decapitating them, shooting people in the leg so they
fall down -- I'm reading from the district court
description -- pour gasoline over them, set them on
fire, and urinate on them. We do not have a tradition
in this country. We protect children from that. We
don't actively expose them to that.
MR. SMITH: And -- and parents have been
doing that for -- since time immemorial. The question
before this Court is whether you're going to create an
entirely new exception under the First Amendment,
whether parents need to have such a new exception
created, and whether or not, if you're going to do it,
you could possibly figure out what the scope of that
exception is.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it your position
-- I know this is a facial challenge, Mr. Smith. So is
it your position that the First Amendment could not
prohibit the sale to minors of the video game that I
just described?
MR. SMITH: My position is that most people
would think that that's an inappropriate game for
minors -- we do not try to sell it to minors -- but that
the Constitution should not be -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know you don't,
but what is -- you're avoiding the answer. Does the
First Amendment protect the sale of that video to
minors?
MR. SMITH: My position -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A minor?
MR. SMITH: -- is that there is not a
violence exception to the First Amendment for minors,
and there should not be.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your position is
that the First Amendment does not, cannot, no matter
what type of law, whether this one is vague or not, that
the State legislature cannot pass a law that says you
may not sell to a 10-year-old a video in which they set
schoolgirls on fire.
MR. SMITH: And the reason for that is
there's no possible way, it's an insuperable problem, to
use the English language to draw up an exception to the
Constitution, to the First Amendment, that would -
JUSTICE ALITO: But what if -- what if a
State passes a -- what if California took the list of
video games that your association rates as mature and
said there's a civil penalty? And you apparently don't
want your -- you don't want vendors selling those games
to minors; isn't that right?
MR. SMITH: Exercising our First Amendment
rights, we have decided -
JUSTICE ALITO: You don't want that. And,
now, what if California said there's a civil penalty
attached to that?
MR. SMITH: What that would do is transform
the ESRB, the private voluntary system that exists, into
the -- the censorship commission that this Court struck
down in Interstate Circuit. When you -- when the
government does that and you have to go to them for
permission to allow kids into the movies or to play this
game, it is a prior restraint. You have way too much
discretion. It's a licensing authority that the First
Amendment doesn't allow.
JUSTICE ALITO: You seem to argue that -
that there really is no good reason to think that
exposure to video games is -- is bad for minors,
exposure to really violent video games is bad to minors;
is that right?
MR. SMITH: I think it's important to draw a
distinction between harm that could be cognizable under
the law and appropriateness. Families have different
judgments that they make about their children at
different ages and with different content and different
family values, and that's what -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Smith, is there
any showing that the State could make that would satisfy
you, that would say, yes, that's a sufficient showing
for this law to go forward?
You know, I understand that you think that
the current studies don't suggest much of anything about
harm.
MR. SMITH: No, they don't.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But -- but are there studies
that would be enough?
MR. SMITH: Well, I guess I can imagine a
world in which expression could transform 75 percent of
the people who experience it into murderers. That's
clearly not the way the human mind works. And here the
reality is quite the opposite. Dr. Anderson testified
in the Illinois trial, which is in the record, that the
vast majority of people playing the games will grow up
and be just fine. And, in fact, he -- he acknowledged
that the effects of these games are not one whit
different from watching cartoons on television or
reading violent passages in the Bible or looking at a
picture of a gun.
JUSTICE ALITO: So why -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you really don't want
to argue the case on that ground. I -- I gather you
don't believe that the First Amendment reads: Congress
shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech except
those that make sense. Is that -
MR. SMITH: Your Honor, my main ground today
is exactly that, that this Court said last year in
United States v. Stevens it doesn't have a freewheeling
authority to create new exceptions to the First
Amendment after 200 years based on a cost-benefit
analysis, and this is -- this is a test of that. This
is exactly what the State of California is asking you to
do.
JUSTICE ALITO: But we have here a new -- a
new medium that cannot possibly have been envisioned at
the time when the First Amendment was ratified. It is
totally different from -- it's one thing to read a
description of -- as one of these -- one of these video
games is promoted as saying, "What's black and white and
red all over? Perhaps the answer could include
disposing of your enemies in a meat grinder." Now,
reading that is one thing. Seeing it as graphically
portrayed -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And doing it.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- and doing it is still a
third thing.
So this presents a question that could not
have been specifically contemplated at the time when the
First Amendment was adopted. And to say, well, because
nobody was -- because descriptions in a book of violence
were not considered a category of speech that was
appropriate for limitation at the time when the First
Amendment was violated is entirely artificial.
MR. SMITH: We do have a new medium here,
Your Honor, but we have a history in this country of new
mediums coming along and people vastly overreacting to
them, thinking the sky is falling, our children are all
going to be turned into criminals.
It started with the crime novels of the late
19th century, which produced this raft of legislation
which was never enforced. It started with comic books
and movies in the 1950s. There were hearings across the
street in the 1950s where social scientists came in and
intoned to the Senate that half the juvenile delinquency
in this country was being caused by reading comic books,
and there was enormous pressure on the industry. They
censored -- they self-censored. We have television. We
have rock lyrics. We have the Internet.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Smith, do you think all
video games are speech in the first instance? Because
you could look at these games and say they're the
modern-day equivalent of Monopoly sets. They're games.
They're things that people use to compete. You know,
when you think about some of them -- the first video
game was Pong. It was playing tennis on your TV. How
is that speech at all?
MR. SMITH: The games that we are talking
about have narrative, events that are occurring,
characters, plot. And that's exactly what the State has
set out to regulate here. It says if these events occur
here -- there is violence, one person is hurting another
person -- it has to be a human being who's the victim -
and it's doing it in a -- in a way that they find
offensive in some way, we're going to regulate it. So,
obviously, what -
JUSTICE KAGAN: So are we going to separate
video games into narrative video games and non-narrative
video games?
MR. SMITH: You don't have to, as long as
the law is limited to regulating narrative. That's what
this law is limited to. Now, if the law said you
shouldn't buy -- play games that have red images that
appear in them, or something else that was somehow
non-content based, that might be a closer case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what -- what about a
law that says you can't sell to minors a video game -
it doesn't care what the plot is, but no video game in
which the minor commits violent acts of maiming,
killing, setting people on fire? What about that?
Would that -- would that be regulating speech?
MR. SMITH: Well, of course, Your Honor.
That's exactly what -- what -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not speech. You're
saying you just can't let the kid maim -- maim, kill -
MR. SMITH: I'm sorry. Were you -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- or set on fire. What
the law would be directed at is not the plot, not the
video game itself, but the child's act of -- of
committing murder, maiming, and so forth.
MR. SMITH: Well, the events in a video game
are -- what happens in the plot is a combination of what
the game gives you and what the player adds to it.
There's a -- there's a creative aspect coming at it from
the other side. It's often referred to as a dialogue
between the player and the game. I would submit that
both are completely protected by the First Amendment.
Just as a person actually -
JUSTICE SCALIA: The child is speaking to
the game?
MR. SMITH: No. The child is helping to
make the plot, determine what happens in the events that
appear on the screen, just as an actor helps to portray
what happens in a play. You're acting out certain
elements of the play, and you're contributing to the
events that occur and adding a creative element of your
own. That's what makes them different and in many ways
wonderful.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Smith, your -
your challenge is a facial challenge?
MR. SMITH: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that under -
whether you use the Salerno test or the Glucksberg test,
if there is either one or any applications that would
satisfy the Constitution, the facial challenge fails.
Right?
MR. SMITH: Very clear under the law of this
Court that those tests don't apply in a First Amendment
context if the -- the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought we
referenced them last year in the Stevens case, and the
only reason we didn't have to decide which applies is
because we adopted an approach that looked at
overbreadth and said this statute is overbroad and
specifically didn't decide whether it could be applied
in that case to -- to crush videos.
MR. SMITH: Well, that's -- that's correct,
Your Honor, but I think it's -- there's no argument
here, I don't think, that if you can find one game out
there to which this can constitutionally be applied,
even though it would also be unconstitutionally applied
under the vast run of other cases -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I
understood -- the tenor of much of the questioning, I
think, is that there may be games and may be minors -
maybe a less violent game sold to a 17-year-old, perhaps
that violates the First Amendment, but something like
Postal 2 sold to a 10-year-old might -- might well not
violate the First Amendment to apply this law to that.
MR. SMITH: Well, that may be -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the way we
approached the issue in Stevens, where we had hunting
videos and crush videos, would say that it's too broad
to apply the law to everything, so we strike it down,
it's overbroad, but leave open the possibility that a
more narrowly drawn statute might pass muster.
Why -- why isn't that a good approach here?
MR. SMITH: You certainly could do that.
Certainly, the key thing is that you strike down this
law, because this law is clearly much broader than any
one game. I would submit to you, though, that there's
no way, in fact, anybody is going to be able to come
back and draw a statute that gets to what they claim,
because the English language is not susceptible of that
level of precision.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So it's not
susceptible. Throughout you've been arguing your point,
which is fair. You have some experts who -- who favor
you, and you make that point very strongly, and your
point's a pretty good one and a serious one, that it's
very hard to draw this line under traditional First
Amendment standards.
But I'd like you to deal with their point
for a moment. And I take it their point is: There is
no new First Amendment thing here. There is a
category -- call them X -- which really are involving
things like torturing children, et cetera. Maybe you
don't like to sell them to anybody. You have them X'd
or some special thing. But they exist, and they fit
within a Miller-type definition. They are much worse
than the simple girlie magazine that was involved there.
And they will use traditional First Amendment tests;
that is to say, there is speech at issue, that speech is
being limited, it is being done for a good reason,
compelling interest -- namely, this problem with the X
videos and the torture and living it through -- and
there is no less restrictive alternative that isn't also
significantly less effective.
See, I want you to deal with that directly,
because what you have been doing for the most part is
saying we have to be in some new, total new area, et
cetera. But their argument is you don't have to be in
some totally new area, et cetera. Apply traditional
First Amendment standards, and we win. That's their
argument, and I'd like to hear what you have to say
about that, specifically.
MR. SMITH: Your Honor, they do not suggest
that there's any existing exception to the First
Amendment that would apply to violence.
JUSTICE BREYER: This is not an exception.
It is the traditional strict scrutiny First Amendment
test.
MR. SMITH: Well, they make a feint at
trying to argue that -
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then let's -
to get you to focus on it, I'll say I've made the
argument.
(Laughter.)
MR. SMITH: There you go. Your Honor, I
think if you apply strict scrutiny here, they do not
come close to the kind of showing that would be required
under -- under the First Amendment.
First of all, they have not shown any
problem, let alone a compelling problem, requiring
regulation here in a world where parents are fully
empowered already to make these calls, where crime,
including violent crime, since the introduction of these
games, has been plummeting in this country, down 50
percent since the day Doom first went on the market
15 years ago; in a world where parents are fully aware
of what's going on in their homes and aware of the
ratings system and can use all the other tools that we
have talked about -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they have plenty of
evidence that -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why couldn't you make the
same arguments with respect to the obscenity statutes?
MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, because
obscenity doesn't have strict scrutiny applied to it, if
it did, I expect you could make the same arguments, if
there were -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why shouldn't violence be
treated the same as obscenity?
MR. SMITH: Well, because, first of all, we
don't have the same history of it. There's no
historical pedigree of that kind of an exception. And,
as I was suggesting earlier, there's a fundamental
difference factually, which is Ginsberg works tolerably
well because we take everything that's sexually explicit
and appeals to a prurient interest, and we say over
here, it's not appropriate for minors.
Violence would require you to draw a much
different line between acceptable protected violence and
unacceptable unprotected violence for minors, and that
given the lack of historical pedigree but also just
given the nature of what you're trying to do -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the courts -
MR. SMITH: -- that's a -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The courts struggled for
many, many years and are to some extent still struggling
with obscenity. They came up with basically what we
might call the Miller standards. And -- and the State
has said this gives us a category that we can work with,
with reference to violence.
MR. SMITH: And if you take the Miller
standards and you take two things out of it -- you take
out of it explicit sex and nudity, and you take out an
appeal to prurient interest -- what do you have left?
You have left -- what you have is a structure with no
apparent meaning. There is no way to know how a court
would apply a standard like deviant violence, morbid
violence, offensive violence, let alone decide which
video games have a redeeming social, political, artistic
value.
The value of a video game is completely in
the eye of the beholder. Some would say they're
beautiful works of artistic creation; others would
say -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You could make all those
arguments with reference to obscenity.
MR. SMITH: Except that you know -- we know,
we all know, at least with respect to Ginsberg -- adult
obscenity, I would acknowledge, is a very difficult
line. Adult -- Ginsberg works reasonably well, because
if it has sex in it and naked people having sex in it
and it's designed to be appealing to people's prurient
interests, you don't give it to minors. And you don't
have a lot of cases out there about that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, and you started
Ginsberg with something that is proscribable even with
regard to adults.
MR. SMITH: Correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You know that there is such
a thing as -- as obscenity, which can be proscribed even
-- even as to adults; whereas in this case, I don't know
that there's such a thing as morbid violence which could
be eliminated from ordinary movies.
MR. SMITH: Let me -- I think a little
history is helpful here. This Court has twice dealt
with laws attempting to regulate violent works in the
past. One was in Winters v. New York, where law applied
to magazines and books, and one was in the 1960s. On
the very day Ginsberg came down, in the Interstate
Circuit case, the City of Dallas had an ordinance where
there was going to be a commission that was going to
review each movie and decide if it was appropriate for
children.
JUSTICE ALITO: Let me be clear about
exactly what your argument is. Your argument is that
there is nothing that a State can do to limit minors'
access to the most violent, sadistic, graphic video game
that can be developed. That's your argument?
MR. SMITH: My position is -
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it or isn't it?
MR. SMITH: My position is that strict
scrutiny applies, and that given the facts in the
record, given the fact that the -- the problem is
already well controlled, the parents are already
empowered, and there are greatly less alternatives out
there -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, when you -
MR. SMITH: -- there isn't any basis to say
scrutiny is satisfied.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, when you say that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, just to be
clear, your answer to Justice Alito is, at this point,
there is nothing the State can do?
MR. SMITH: Because there's no problem it
needs to solve that would justify -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could I -- could I
just have a simple answer?
MR. SMITH: The answer is yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There's nothing the
State can do.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Smith, how can you
say that? There's plenty of proof that -- that children
are going into stores and buying these games despite the
voluntary rating system, despite the voluntary retailer
restraint by some. There's still proof out there, and
an abundance of it, that kids are buying the games.
MR. SMITH: I disagree.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And there's proof that
some parents, as well-intentioned as they may or may not
be, have not been able to supervise that. So I -
starting from the proposition that there is a problem,
it's a compelling State need, why are you arguing that
there is no solution that the State could use to address
that problem?
MR. SMITH: The -- the existing solutions
are perfectly capable of allowing this problem to be
addressed, assuming it is a problem. And I would -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it's still about 20
percent of sales are going to kids.
MR. SMITH: That's when they send in
somebody who's 16 to test the system. There isn't any
evidence at all in this record that actual children, not
testers, are in fact disobeying their parents and
secretly buying these games, bringing them into the
home, and playing them for years with their parents
unaware of it. There's simply no evidence of that at
all.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could you have a law
that says the State has to put -- the dealers have to
put the violent video games in a particular area of the
video store?
MR. SMITH: There -- there is -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That is not -- and
then -- you know, and minors are not allowed in that
area.
MR. SMITH: Well, if what you're saying is
you're going to have a limit on the ability of minors to
buy them because of walled off, and minors are not
allowed -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
MR. SMITH: -- to go pick them off the
shelf, then I don't know how that differs from the
current law, Your Honor, assuming you could figure
out -
JUSTICE BREYER: Your answer -- your answer
to the first question of Justice Alito and the Chief
Justice was yes, isn't that -- that you are saying
there's nothing they can do. So now, am I right about
that or am I not right?
MR. SMITH: Yes. Strict scrutiny does not
make sense -
JUSTICE BREYER: I am right? Okay. All I
wanted was an answer to that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So they can't say,
example, all the -- all the highest rated videos have to
be on the top shelf out of the reach of children. Can
they do that?
MR. SMITH: I would think that that's
probably not -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's what they do
with cigarettes or something, isn't it?
MR. SMITH: Except that cigarettes are not
speech, Your Honor. This is fully protected speech.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know that
cigarettes are not speech, Mr. Smith.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Cigarettes are
something that we have determined are harmful to
children. The question is, you say the record doesn't
support the idea that these video games are harmful to
children. Some of us may conclude that it does.
MR. SMITH: Well, surely the record doesn't
support it. The record says that if -- even if you take
the studies at face value, it's not one whit more
harmful than watching television cartoons. That's what
the record shows.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But on that -- on that
score, Mr. Smith, there is a study by the FCC. The
question is whether violence can be restricted during
the hours when most children are awake, just the way
pornography is. I don't remember what -- what are the
hours, that -- something like from 10:00 in the evening
until -
I don't -- but -- but didn't the FCC say,
yes, we could do the same thing for violence that we're
doing for sex, except we don't think we ought to do it;
we think Congress should do it?
MR. SMITH: What they did was they spent
several years trying to come up with a definition that
would allow anybody to figure out which violent TV shows
have to be put into this adult category and which don't,
and they eventually punted and said we have no idea how
to do that; Congress asked us to do it; we cannot do it;
and they punted it back to Congress to try to come up
with a definition.
This is a very difficult task, trying to use
language to differentiate levels of violence or types of
violence in a manner that would in some way tell people
what the rules of the game are. I think, even if you
think that there's some problem out there that needs to
be solved, you ought to think very carefully about
whether or not you're going to authorize the creation of
some new rule authorizing regulation in this area, when
no one will have any idea what the scope of it is.
JUSTICE ALITO: And you say there's no
problem because 16-year-olds in California never have
$50 available to go buy a video game and because they
never have TVs in their room, and their parents are
always home watching what they -- they do with their
video games, and the parents -- and the video games have
features that allow parents to block access, to block
the playing of violent video games, which can't be
overcome by a computer-savvy California 16-year-old;
that's why there's no problem, right?
MR. SMITH: I guess, if what we're really
going to do is judge the constitutionality of this law
based on what 16- and 17-year-olds are getting and
whether that would be harmful to them, I think the
problem there is the line between 16 and 17 and 18 is so
fine, that you're not going to be able to identify any
real category of games that fits into that category.
And it's important, by the way, to -- to
note that California hasn't told us whether we should
judge it for 5-year-olds, 10-year-olds, 17-year-olds.
If it's 5-year-olds, then it's vastly over-restrictive;
if it's 17-year-olds, I suspect -- I suspect it wouldn't
restrict anything because nobody is going to be able to
convince a -- jury, well, this is an 18-year-old game,
not a 17-year-old game.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We draw that kind of
line of course in the death penalty area, don't we?
Between 18-year-olds? You are under 18; you can't be
sentenced to life without parole; if you were over 18,
you can.
MR. SMITH: You do draw that line, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And we do it for
drinking; we do it for driving.
MR. SMITH: But here you're assessing works
of expression and trying to decide what age they -- they
would correspond to, and I don't think you can cut it
that finely and say, well, this is an 18 game; this is
only a 17 game. I just don't think that works. So if
that's the test, the test Justice Breyer suggested it
ought to be, then the statute essentially would restrict
nothing. If the test is 5-year-olds -
JUSTICE BREYER: Stick to the X things,
maybe. Maybe it would restrict the total gratuitous
torture. And if that's what it restricted, why is that
such a terrible thing?
MR. SMITH: Well, first of all -
JUSTICE BREYER: And as you experimented
with other things, as they did in the obscenity area,
you could discover you could limit it to that.
MR. SMITH: I think the "maybe" is telling,
though, Your Honor. Somebody, as Justice Scalia pointed
out, in publishing a game has to know what -- what to -
what the rules of the game are in advance, subject to
hundreds of millions of dollars of penalties. There's a
$1,000 a game penalty if you have the wrong -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you have your rules,
so why wouldn't the first step be they'd follow your
rules? Your rules. The X things would be limited to
people who are over 18, and we'll see if we ever get
prosecuted for a different one. And you might never.
MR. SMITH: Our rules wouldn't help you at
all. They say that -- that -- they're only restricting
a smaller number, a small subset of M-rated games,
which, by the way, we say are appropriate for
17-year-olds. So you have -- these ratings that the
State wants us to impose are going to conflict with the
ratings that are already on the packaging which are
being used by parents every day to make these judgments.
So it's actually interfering -- the prospect of it would
interfere with the information already on the packaging.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Smith.
Mr. Morazzini, you have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ZACKERY P. MORAZZINI
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. MORAZZINI: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice.
I wanted to address one point that has been
raised about minors' ability to access these games.
Yes, new games do cost $60, but California's law also
regulates the rental of these video games, which is just
a few dollars per game. So minors certainly can afford
them and can access them.
But I also wanted to draw out the point that
California's law really is not an ordinance that's
directed to a plot of a game. It's expressly directed
to games with essentially no plot, no artistic value.
This is the helpful nature of the third prong of the
Miller standard. So it really is only going after the
nature of the game where the child is acting out -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. If it has a
plot, it has artistic value? Is that going to be the
test for artistic value? Anything that has a plot?
MR. MORAZZINI: It will be one factor to be
considered, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well -
MR. MORAZZINI: The nature of the plot and
the nature of the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, one factor to be
considered, sure. But you're not telling us that, so
long as it has a plot, it's okay?
MR. MORAZZINI: No. Your Honor, as this
Court held in the Jacobellis case, a single quotation
from Voltaire on the flyleaf of an otherwise obscene
work was not going to make that work non-obscene.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't have artistic
videos that involve maiming and cutting off heads and
eviscerating people, and pouring gas, right? So long as
its artistic, it's okay.
MR. MORAZZINI: No, if the -- if the level
of the violence -- just as in obscenity, if the level of
the violence causes the game as a whole to lack the
artistic -- it's -- it's a balance, Your Honor, just as
it is with sexual material. Each aspect -- that's why
violence and sex are so similar -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Artistic for whom? For a
5-year-old? What a 5-year-old would appreciate as great
art, is that going to be the test?
MR. MORAZZINI: No. Again, minors as a
class. So those under 18 years old. Those under -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think Mortal Kombat
is prohibited by this statute?
MR. MORAZZINI: I believe it's a candidate,
Your Honor, but I haven't played the game and been
exposed to it sufficiently to judge for myself.
JUSTICE KAGAN: It's a candidate, meaning,
you know, yes, a reasonable jury could find that Mortal
Kombat -- which is, you know, an iconic game, which I'm
sure half of the clerks who work for us spent
considerable amounts of time in their adolescence
playing.
(Laughter.)
MR. MORAZZINI: Justice Kagan -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know what she's
talking about.
(Laughter.)
MR. MORAZZINI: Justice Kagan, by
"candidate," I meant that the video game industry should
look at it, should take a long look at it. Now -- but I
don't know off the top of my head. I'm willing to state
right here in open court that the video game Postal 2,
yes, would be covered by this Act. I'm willing to guess
that games we described in our brief, such as MadWorld,
would be covered by the Act. I think the video game
industry -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would a video game that
portrayed a Vulcan, as opposed to a human being, being
maimed and tortured -- would that be covered by the Act?
MR. MORAZZINI: No, it wouldn't, Your Honor,
because the Act is only directed towards the range of
options that are able to be inflicted on a human being.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if the -- if the
video producer says this is not a human being, it's an
android computer-simulated person, then that doesn't -
all they have to do is put a little part or feature on
the creature and they could sell the video game?
MR. MORAZZINI: Under the Act, yes, because
California's concern -- I think this is one of the
reasons that sex and violence are so similar. These are
base physical acts we're talking about, Justice
Sotomayor. So limiting, narrowing our law here in
California -- there in California -- to violence,
violent depictions against human beings -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what happens when the
character gets maimed, head chopped off, and immediately
after it happens they spring back to life and they
continue their battle? Is that covered by your Act?
Because they haven't been maimed and killed forever.
Just temporarily.
MR. MORAZZINI: I would think so. The
intent of the law is to limit minors' access to those
games -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You think so? Isn't
that feedback to Justice Scalia's question?
MR. MORAZZINI: Well, Your Honor, this -
this is a facial challenge. This -- this statute has
not been applied, has not been even construed by a State
or Federal court below, but -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Smith.
MR. MORAZZINI: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is
submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
41:24 18:10,11 29:12,13 46:7 48:12 56:9 authorize 53:17
59:22 53:6 amounts 59:1 24:16 36:1 authors 6:10
28:6 47:22 48:1 analogy 19:4 27:20 44:7,9 50:20 25:16 30:12 53:22
age 9:24 10:1 11:10 34:6 37:22 49:7,12 argument 1:14 2:2,5 27:13 45:11,12
17:2 22:25 ages 36:3 answering 7:6 19:12 21:15 26:6
48:17 54:1
57:4 60:17
40:15 59:13
23:7,15,18 47:17 artistic 11:19 28:20 32:2 35:21,22
60:3
35:7,19 37:2 appeals 9:21 11:15 47:4,8 57:8,13,14 balance 58:9
38:2 48:14 46:6 58:2,5,9,12 ban 5:2
49:7 51:11 appear 39:25 41:4 asked 23:25 53:8 barrier 22:23 23:8
APPEARANCES asking 15:8 16:10 base 9:21 60:6
53:5 54:1 appears 6:16 asks 4:7 37:12 40:1 54:7
applications 41:15 aspects 29:20 30:9 46:17
60:23 assessing 55:4 battle 60:13
17:11 26:14 41:19 42:15 assuming 50:7 51:8 behalf 1:18,20 2:4,7
26:13,16 42:20 44:9,15 45:1 attached 35:9 2:10 3:8 26:7
34:7,12 47:2 attempt 21:17 56:21
35:5,18 appreciate 58:13 attempting 48:6 beholder 47:7
38:6,10 approach 41:24 Attorney 1:17 beings 60:9
41:19 42:13 42:23 at-large 27:15 believe 5:13 6:8
43:13,16,23 approached 42:18 audience 9:1 7:23 10:10 14:6
17:15,24 C causes 58:8 children's 19:18 45:5 50:2
23:10 24:17 C 2:1 3:1 censor 25:5 child's 27:4 40:15 compete 39:5
37:5 California 1:4,18 censored 38:24 choose 29:17 completely 40:23
3:11,15 4:7 5:13 censors 24:25 choosing 15:17 47:6
48:8 23:21 25:2 57:1,6 challenged 20:3 class 10:11 58:16 7:2 13:8,9 16:2,3,4
28:13 calls 45:7 charged 11:2 36:18 43:1 conclude 52:11
31:20 candidate 58:19,22 Chief 3:3,9 5:18 clerk 22:24 conclusion 29:10
43:7 59:9 6:18 26:2,5,8,23 clerks 58:25 conflict 56:11
51:10,17 capable 50:6 27:9,17 30:15 33:2 clip 7:17 Congress 7:1 16:4
56:1 care 40:4 33:21 34:5,10,14 clips 13:6 25:21 37:5 53:2,8,9
31:24 32:1 47:19 6:25 7:22 16:16 commits 40:5 constitutionally
39:24 51:3 categories 14:18 18:13 22:11 28:1 committing 19:15 42:6
category 3:17 5:5 28:18 29:15 30:1,2 40:16 construed 10:7
50:14 31:19 38:8 43:17 32:24,25 33:4,11 28:13,14,21 30:7 consumer 21:4
covers 12:17 14:5 delinquency 38:21 difficult 25:11 47:14 19:21
30:10,17 criminal 13:13 20:9 described 32:1 discretion 35:17 enacted 17:16
criminals 38:15 33:25 59:14 discussions 14:25 enacting 6:14 18:21
42:3 47:23 D 3:1 despite 49:18,19 35:25 English 12:13 34:22
38:12,22 deal 30:12 43:14 developing 6:16 30:21 33:14 38:1,2 ensuring 22:22
44:5 development 3:19 39:15 44:6 53:1 entered 17:22
54:21 death 54:21 developmental 23:2 Dr 29:4,5 36:19 entirely 15:8 33:16
4:7 17:2 18:4 decapitating 33:7 4:13,15 5:10,14 43:4,12 46:8 54:20 entitled 22:10
19:1 20:2,12 decide 8:15,16 9:25 9:16 12:5 15:19 54:25 57:5 envisioned 37:17
23:3 26:9 16:19 26:22 27:15 24:5,6 26:22 47:2 drawn 42:22 episode 7:8
27:11,17 41:23 42:1 47:3 dialogue 40:21 drinking 15:24,25 equally 3:23
31:6 33:8,15 48:12 55:5 difference 5:4 32:17 16:14 55:3 equivalent 39:4
37:9 41:19 decided 35:6 32:18,19,23 33:3 driving 55:3 erect 22:23
48:5 57:24 decision 22:16 46:4 D.C 1:10,20 especially 6:2 9:21
60:24 deeply 19:23 different 8:13 19:8 ESQ 1:17,20 2:3,6,9
13:2,3,15 28:11 43:21 53:4 56:5 earliest 17:18,21,24 established 4:16,17
59:13,15,19 53:10 differentiate 53:12 early 17:25 7:21
degree 15:7 differs 3:12 51:7 effect 7:7 15:25 et 1:4,8 28:20 43:18
expressive 26:11,18 42:5 58:23 G 46:4 47:13,15,21
41:3,7 extend 5:10 fire 33:10 34:19 10:1 11:14 12:9,14 Ginsberg-type
29:18 45:16 16:4,12,20 17:10 33:24 34:2 35:16 11:1 18:23 19:6
F 18:21,22 26:13,16 20:1 21:25 23:12
40:3,4,15,17
41:1 42:5
43:2 47:6
40:9 48:15 facial 33:22 41:11 35:17 37:5,11,18 Ginsburg's 5:19
53:14,22
55:7,8,22
57:3,7,11
26:16 27:21 16:24 20:24 23:20 42:15 43:12,16,23 given 19:12 21:15
59:9,12
33:16,17,20 36:22 43:3 48:23 44:10,14,17 45:3,4 46:11,12 48:22,23
60:2
44:14,16 50:13 45:10,25 51:11 gives 40:19 46:19
factor 57:15,20 55:16 56:2 glorification 15:24
6:5,9,10
7:24 9:19
11:12 12:10
13:2,2
14:7 17:5
19:14 20:22
fall 33:8 flyleaf 57:25 51:6 53:22
26:19,25 29:7
31:4,16 32:1
36:21
Families 36:1 forbid 31:23 19:14 28:12,16
37:21 39:2,3
42:11 45:9
favor 43:9 forth 5:16 40:16 43:3 45:12 48:11
49:18,21
52:10
54:2,11
57:1,2,8
60:18
Ferguson 29:4 37:6 government 21:2
19:4,7 FTC 7:1 GOVERNOR 1:3
53:5 fundamental 3:23 graphic 32:25 33:2
16:25 22:9
find 18:19 39:15 further 23:22 graphically 37:24
27:11
32:3 55:13 highest 51:20 iconic 58:24 intensity 14:1 juries 10:16 24:16
46:2,11 ill-defined 26:18 44:1 46:6,24 Justice 3:3,9 4:12
Honor 4:15,24 5:3 important 22:13,15 interpret 25:11 15:14,23 16:23
14:10 impose 28:17 56:11 48:9 18:24 19:6,10,20
41:3,5 60:10 31:12 37:8 38:12 58:3 23:18,24 24:10,11
40:8 41:12 42:4 involved 28:5 43:22 24:19,24 25:2,9,17
31:1 52:3 55:1,21 57:23 8:23 10:6 16:25 28:4,13 29:2,24
36:11 58:9,20 59:20 19:9 23:5,22 26:10 30:15 31:9,13,20
6:2,5 9:18 hope 30:2 34:5,10,14,24 35:7
52:8,10,15 horrible 11:23 J 35:19 36:5,13 37:2
hour 28:19 Jacobellis 57:24 37:3,16 38:1,2
59:9,16
60:11 house 31:5 jobs 30:1 40:25 41:10,13,21
13:5
hurt 29:15 judgments 36:2 50:23 51:5,10,11
55:2,9,12,17 59:5,11 let's 11:16 30:4 28:4 48:8 12:24 23:22 46:18
56:1,17,23 Kombat 58:17,24 44:21 maim 40:11,11 46:21 57:10
level 3:16 4:25 6:1 maimed 59:19 60:11 Miller-type 43:21
59:4 L 7:2,22,23 15:18 60:14 millions 55:24
60:6 label 20:11,23 21:6 17:17 25:7 43:6 maiming 12:18 27:2 mind 10:2 13:12
labeling 10:22 20:2 58:6,7 40:5,16 58:3 36:18
20:17 21:3,9,12,22 levels 53:12 main 37:8 minor 5:24 11:4,6
43:5 53:12 light's 25:10 manner 9:22 22:11 minors 3:14,19 4:9
13:1 14:3 late 38:16 limitation 38:9 10:2 11:4 13:14,22 10:9,11 11:11
19:10,20 36:5 Laughter 4:23 11:8 limited 25:25 39:22 manufacturers 25:5 15:19,19,25 17:2
39:1,18 13:20 15:13 17:6 39:23 43:25 56:3 margins 15:6 17:14 19:14,23
59:4,8 22:5 24:23 28:3 limiting 60:7 market 45:10 21:14,22 22:25
25:9,17,23 law 3:11,12,21 4:8 list 29:14 34:25 8:10 9:20,20 14:10 33:24 34:3,3,8,12
45:17,23 8:8 10:6,6,7 13:11 literary 11:19 28:20 14:12,22,24 15:15 35:4,21,22 40:3
47:10 13:13 15:19 16:5 literature 6:24 15:22 16:24 17:17 42:11 46:7,10
50:9 25:12 26:10,14 long 14:22 21:3 22:7 materials 5:6,10 minor's 3:16,21
40:6 41:18 42:15,20 12:25 13:17 25:6 mature 14:4,6 35:1 21:4,7
45:2 46:2 51:8 54:6 57:1,6 looked 29:3,6 41:24 12:12 18:3 32:14 modern-day 39:4
60:7,17 looking 17:15 36:25 32:16 moment 43:15
13:10,14,19 left 46:24,25 lyrics 9:7 38:25 media 6:25 7:2 Morazzini 1:17 2:3
15:12 leg 33:7 medium 37:17 38:11 2:9 3:6,7,9 4:15,19
17:4,8,23 legislation 38:17 M mediums 38:13 4:24 5:3,12,21 6:7
24:1,7,25 legislature 4:10 M 1:20 2:6 26:6 meets 5:16 25:8 6:23 7:11,20 8:6
33:22 34:5 5:22 6:13 7:9 machines 25:19 Merchants 1:7 3:5 8:22 9:11,13,17
39:5 47:1,12 29:18 34:17 Madison 17:4,9 merciless 33:6 10:4,16 11:1,9
48:1 legislatures 18:5 MadWorld 59:14 mercy 33:6 12:1,3,15,23 13:4
51:7 52:4 lesser 21:11 magazine 43:22 meta 18:14 13:16,23 14:6,9
58:23,24 letters 10:20 magazines 27:25 Miller 5:14 8:8 15:14 16:23 17:14
18:8,17 never 8:3 16:7,11 47:3 panderers 14:11 32:15 33:5,7 34:1
20:5,8 16:12 38:18 53:21 office 23:15 24:3,13 parallel 14:19 36:17,21 38:13
21:16,23 53:23 56:5 oh 8:2 Pardon 17:20 39:5 40:6 47:16
23:10 new 3:12,13 6:19 8:4 okay 5:1 10:21,21 parent 3:15,22 53:13 56:4 58:4
24:9,15 10:6 15:9 16:11 11:25 12:2,15 11:21 22:8,14,15 people's 47:17
26:3 23:23 25:18 26:15 16:21,22 21:21 28:14,22 30:6,23 percent 30:21 36:16
56:19,20,22 31:12 33:16,17 22:8 32:3 51:17 31:3,23 45:10 50:9
58:6 37:11,16,17 38:11 57:22 58:5 parental 25:15,20 perfectly 22:8 50:6
59:4,8,20 38:12 43:16 44:7,7 old 10:10 11:7 30:7 25:22 30:10,17 period 31:2
61:2 44:9 48:7 53:18 58:16 31:3,5,17 permission 31:17
47:2 48:2 nice 24:14 31:6 parents 3:25 4:4,5 permit 21:13
8:1 15:24 norms 4:16,17 7:21 opposite 36:19 54:1 56:13 physical 60:6
26:19,24 note 6:10 54:13 options 12:17 59:22 parole 54:23 pick 51:6
35:15 38:19 novels 38:16 oral 1:13 2:2,5 3:7 part 10:22 21:9 44:6 picture 31:24 37:1
November 1:11 26:6 60:1 place 31:2
28:5 57:25 overbreadth 41:25 passes 34:25 39:7 50:15 54:2
14:18 15:2,3,16 42:21 patently 5:15 15:18 please 3:10 26:9
58:7 Penal 23:11 plummeting 45:9
occur 39:12 41:7 56:20 penalty 35:2,8 54:21 14:14 19:25 21:23
50:2 offensive 5:15 14:24 PAGE 2:2 people 7:12 9:9 56:24 57:5
37:21 15:1 23:25 25:11 record 6:7 27:10,12 55:10,13
48:19,21 prongs 5:13 8:7 quotation 57:24 red 37:22 39:24 restricting 56:7
prophylactic 8:9 raft 38:17 46:20 47:11 44:3
proscribable 47:21 range 12:17 31:11 referred 40:21 retail 22:24
52:3 ratings 14:4 30:20 regulated 8:17 9:3 54:4 58:4 59:12
pro-social 6:11 reading 33:8 36:25 19:21 45:6 53:18 6:18 26:2,5,23
44:1 45:5,5 put 50:19,20 53:6 35:20 41:23 43:25 requiring 45:5 room 53:23
49:9 50:1,4 60:1 reasonable 21:12 reserve 26:1 rule 3:20,25 4:3,8
27:20 30:8 setting 40:6 30:9,18 31:11,15 speaking 40:25
56:1,3,3,6 scientists 38:20 32:17,24 46:23 33:22 34:1,9,11,20 specifically 38:5
23:18 33:24 secondly 4:3 shameful 11:15 48:21 49:3,9,13,16 spillover 19:3
secretly 50:14 shelf 51:7,21 49:22 50:5,10,22 spring 60:12
56:4 showing 36:6,7 45:2 smoking 16:15,15 standards 26:14
37:21 40:11 sees 23:1 shows 52:16 53:5 27:8 28:19 38:20 46:22
51:1,12 self-censored 38:24 shred 27:6 47:4 stands 10:1
34:17 39:12 34:3,18 40:3 43:19 sides 27:13,20 19:7 started 38:16,18
50:19 52:13 60:2 sign 29:13 sociological 29:17 47:20
seller 24:1,7 significant 15:7 23:3 sold 24:8 42:12,14 starting 50:1
7:25 11:6,9 Senate 38:21 significantly 44:4 solutions 50:5 19:12,15,17,23
send 50:10 similar 10:6 23:20 solve 49:10 22:6,13 27:6,10,12
16:23 17:4,8 sense 9:16 21:18 25:3 31:6 58:11 solved 53:16 28:21,25 31:17,22
24:11 27:14,18 28:13,14 60:5 somebody 50:11 31:23 34:17,25
25:2 31:9 28:21 30:8 31:21 similarities 15:21 55:21 36:6 37:14 39:11
37:3 38:1 31:21,22 32:5,12 simple 25:19 43:22 somewhat 27:15 46:18 48:16 49:8
37:7 51:16 49:12 28:11 49:15 50:2,3,19
55:21 sentenced 54:23 simply 11:14 28:10 songs 9:8 56:11 59:11 60:23
separate 13:1 21:10 50:16 sorry 40:12 States 1:1,14 3:21
59:5 39:18 single 57:24 Sotomayor 7:5,12 4:3,8 17:2,15
serious 11:18 43:11 sitting 26:25 9:14,15 17:18,21 statute 6:14 10:1,22
services 21:2 smaller 56:8 49:2,5,16,23 50:8 17:19,22,24 41:25
39:12 40:13 26:6,8 27:5,12,19 60:19 58:18 60:22
supervise 49:25 tennis 39:7 12:24 23:21 46:22
42:18 support 52:10,13 terrible 55:15 30:25 33:14 37:18 typical 11:10
48:21 Supreme 1:1,14 testimony 13:5 told 54:13 20:13
sure 5:21 9:17 13:13 tests 41:19 43:23 tolerably 46:4 unconstitutionally
35:12 suspect 54:16,16 thing 12:7 22:8 44:2 55:14 understood 16:6,7
29:3 36:10 T 2:1,1 things 18:14 28:8 total 44:7 55:13 upbringing 4:2,11
52:14 take 11:16 12:3 31:2 29:8 30:11 39:5 totally 37:19 44:9 22:11
46:22,22,23 52:13 55:18 56:3 33:3,10 use 34:22 39:5
43:2 talked 20:1 45:14 18:18 20:12 23:7 36:16 utilizes 14:17
39:9 59:6 V
60:6 34:2 35:20,24 36:9 tried 31:18 32:2,15 v 1:6 3:5 23:23
television 25:25 60:16,19 53:4,11 55:5 value 7:13 8:16
55:9 52:15 third 38:3 57:9 turned 38:15 52:14 57:8,13,14
telling 13:11 25:5 thought 15:11 17:5 TVs 53:23 variable 10:18
6:5,9 17:17 19:15 22:3,4we've 8:2,3 26:12 Z 54:22
7:9,16,24 22:25 24:5 25:7 whit 36:23 52:14 ZACKERY 1:17 2:3 19th 38:17
10:23 35:22 36:25 40:5 white 25:9 37:21 2:9 3:7 56:20 1900s 17:25
12:9,10,11 42:12 45:8 48:6,17willing 11:24 59:11 Zauderer 20:25 21:1 1950s 38:19,20
13:6,24 50:20 53:5 54:2 59:13 1960s 48:8
17:5 18:12 60:9 win 44:10
20:11 25:21 Voltaire 57:25 Winters 48:7
29:7,9 voluntary 35:11 woman 31:25 32:4
33:24 34:7,18 49:19,19 women 28:18
37:20 Vulcan 59:18 wonderful 24:21 20 50:8
V-chip 25:13,24 41:9 200 37:12
11:7
47:4 V-chips 25:23 word 9:16 2010 1:11
1:6 3:4
48:17 50:20 words 18:6,6,25 26 2:7
52:10 53:22 W 19:4,7 1
54:2 57:2 work 25:23 26:20 10-year-old 10:3,15 3 2:4
walled 51:3 46:19 58:1,1,25 34:18 42:14
works 26:11,18 10-year-olds 54:14
44:2 35:3,3,7 37:3 44:5 47:8,15 48:6 55:4 10:04 1:15 3:2 4 56:19
58:3 wanted 21:11 51:18 55:8 11:04 61:5 4-year-olds 10:25
5:14,15,16 watch 22:2 32:11 59:20 31:25 32:5 54:15 55:11
7:7,22,24 8:2 33:4 wrong 55:25 13-year-olds 31:13 50 45:9
9:9 12:5,5,13 watching 27:1 36:24 Wynn 8:20 15 45:11 56 2:10
14:1,2,22 52:15 53:24 16 50:11 54:7,9
16:9,14 way 9:19 12:6 20:11 X 7
31:19
18:10,12 26:21 31:17 34:21 x 1:2,9 43:17 44:1 54:3 7-year-old 10:21
24:5 26:21 35:16 36:18 39:15 55:12 56:3 16-year-olds 53:21 75 36:16
29:11 32:9 39:16 42:17 43:3 X'd 43:19 17 54:9 55:8
33:1,2 47:1 52:20 53:13 8
38:7 39:13 54:12 56:9 8-year-old 10:15
54:19
45:23 46:8,9 ways 41:8 17-year-olds 10:25 80 18:13
47:2,3,3 54:7,14,16 56:10
52:19,25 18 10:10,20,23,23
58:7,8,11 11:7,16,16,17,20
30:21
