IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-267
JACOB DENEDO. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, March 25, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:08 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Petitioner.
MATTHEW S. FREEDUS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MATTHEW S. FREEDUS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 56
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:08 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in Case 08-267, United States v. Denedo.
Mr. Shah.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PRATIK A. SHAH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SHAH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces,
or CAAF, held that military appellate courts possess
open-ended jurisdiction under the All Writs Act to
entertain a coram nobis challenge to the merits of a
final court-martial conviction. This Court should
reverse that decision, both because the All Writs Act
cannot supply jurisdiction that Congress chose not to
confer and because Respondent is a civilian who may no
longer invoke the military court system.
As this Court explained in Clinton v.
Goldsmith, military courts, as Article I courts, are
strictly limited to the bases of jurisdiction conferred
upon them by the Uniform Code of Military Justice, or
UCMJ. Three related aspects of the UCMJ make clear that
it does not confer jurisdiction over Respondent's coram
nobis petition.
First, as noted in Goldsmith, the UCMJ
narrowly circumscribes military appellate jurisdiction
to the findings and sentences of a court-martial
conviction. That is a direct review jurisdiction. UCMJ
Articles 66 and 67, which define appellate jurisdiction,
do not contemplate any further review within the
military appellate courts.
Second, once direct appellate review is
complete and the military authority executes the
judgment, UCMJ Article 76 affirmatively forecloses any
further military court review. As this Court has
recognized on two prior occasions, UCMJ Article 76 marks
the terminal point of proceedings within the
court-martial system.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Shah, how does that
differ from the general rule that a judgment becomes
final and has preclusive effect once the appellate route
has been exhausted or the time to pursue it has expired?
It seems to me that Article 76 simply codifies the rule
that applies ordinarily in criminal cases, in civil
cases, stating when a judgment becomes final for
preclusion purposes.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, yes, Article 76 does
that, but it does more than that. As this Court
recognized in Gusik and in Councilman, it marks the end
of proceedings within the military court system.
Now, beyond the text, what this Court looked
at in Gusik -- in Gusik, it was a Petitioner seeking
habeas review. One of his alternative arguments in
Gusik was that Article 76 essentially violated the
Suspension Clause because it -- it marked the end of --
no further proceedings within the military court system
as well as within the Article III court system. The
Court agreed with the Petitioner that Article 76 marked
the end of any further proceedings within the military
court system. It disagreed that it also effected a
repeal of Article III habeas jurisdiction, but there was
no disagreement between the Petitioner, the government,
and this Court in Gusik that it did mark the end of
proceedings within the military court system.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So therefore one could say
that that point wasn't decided in the case, right?
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, one could say
that, but this Court again in Councilman ratified that
line that the Court drew in Gusik. It -- it reiterated
the reasoning that Article 76 forecloses any further
proceedings within the military court system. So I
don't think it's just dicta. It was relevant to its
denial of the Suspension Clause claim, and the Court
reiterated that in Councilman 25 years later.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where in your view, in
that the government is putting forward, can this -- can
Denedo go? He said, I was misinformed by my counsel. I
never would have entered a plea if I had known I would
be subject to deportation. And he said, I never found
out about it until what, 8 years later, when the
government -- 8 years after his conviction, the
government said, you're subject to deportation. Where
can he go with that plea?
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, it appears that
Respondent no longer has any further remedies to -- to
pursue. But we think the important point is that in a
general -- in the general case, Petitioner is bringing
-- the exact same claim the Respondent is bringing is
normally going to have several avenues of remedy outside
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We're assuming now,
because we haven't gone any further than his plea, that
he was so misinformed and he didn't lack diligence in
failing to bring it earlier, that he was surprised by
the government's action, so he was unaware and,
therefore, unable to make this plea any earlier. You
have given us the answer that it's too bad, he's just
out of any court.
MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I think it's
important to note that the UCMJ marks the high-water
mark of process within the military justice system.
What the UCMJ did is it took the prior system, which
didn't even allow for real direct review within the
military court system, and it made that direct review
system much more robust. It added an intermediate court
of review. It took administrative review that was
embodied within boards of tribunals that had typically
been under the Judge Advocate General. It moved that
out and gave it greater independence to provide more
robust intermediate appellate review. It added an
entire level of a new court, the Court of Appeals for
the Armed Forces, which provided additional -- a new
level of review. And then it said still --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, part -- part of
independence is the assurance that the court has the
ability to do justice in the case before it, and I think
the purpose of coram nobis or coram vobis is to protect
the integrity of the court, and that's all this court is
asking. So that's quite consistent with what you've
just said.
MR. SHAH: Well -- well, Your Honor, in
enacting the UCMJ, Congress was balancing several
values. On the one hand, it was balancing the rights of
service members, but at the same time, it was balancing
the important value of maintaining good order and
discipline within the armed -- within the armed forces,
mindful of the military's primary mission in fighting
wars and defending the nation.
Now, given those competing values, it was --
it was reasonable for Congress to draw a line at some
point and say it, the conviction is final and to the
extent you want to seek further collateral review you
have to go to the civilian system to seek that review.
That -- that line is reasonable not only from a
historical standpoint, but also from a practical
standpoint, given the institutional limitations --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But is there collateral
review available in the civilian system in your view?
MR. SHAH: Yes, as a general matter there's
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: I mean in this case.
MR. SHAH: In this case, Respondent no
longer has any reviews because the time has passed.
2241 would --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So the answer is no in
this case?
MR. SHAH: No, there is no further review,
Your Honor, in this case. Now, as a general matter
there are ample avenues of review within the civilian
court system. For the entire time that a Petitioner
would be confined, he can seek 2241 habeas relief in the
Federal court system. Even after --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Shah, you just said
something about -- you answered my question and Justice
Stevens' question: This person is out because it's too
late for him. He was convicted in what, was it --
MR. SHAH: 1998, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. And the government
never said anything about deportation until 2006? And
they went through -- he twice applied for
naturalization, is that correct?
MR. SHAH: That is correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And he was turned down on
grounds that had nothing to do with deportation. The
government never alerted him to the possibility that he
would be deportable. They turned down his application
with no hint of that, and you say that he is -- he's out
of time, but nothing counts against the government
because of that 8-year lapse?
MR. SHAH: Right. Your Honor, in the
denials I agree with you that they did not alert him to
deportation, but it based its denials on his military
court convictions. So to that extent he was somewhat on
notice that the military court convictions were posing a
problem to his citizenship, potential citizenship
status.
Now, it is true, you're absolutely right,
that the government did not begin deportation
proceedings until October 2006, and until that time he
was not on notice, but the fact that this particular
claimant -- that the time has run should not be
dispositive. For example --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, the time -- I mean,
the time may very well run in the civil system, and yet
I take it that under -- you accept Morgan and in the
Article III system this -- in comparable circumstances,
this Petitioner could seek coram nobis.
MR. SHAH: Right. There are two reasons,
Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And I take it you also -- I
don't think there's any dispute that the All Writs Act
applies to the Article I court as well as to the Article
III court. And I take it -- and I would like your
response to this. I take it you accept the fact that in
testimony before the House, at least, at the time the
present system went into effect the general counsel for
the Department of Defense, Mr. Taft, testified to a
House committee that coram nobis would be available in
the -- in the Article I courts. And if that is so,
isn't the kind of the most reasonable way to construe
the statute, including Article 76, as allowing for this?
MR. SHAH: No, Your Honor. Mr. Taft's
testimony that you're referring to was not given at the
time of enacting of the UCMJ.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What was the occasion for
it?
MR. SHAH: That was during a subsequent
amending process of the act.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What were they amending at
the time?
MR. SHAH: It was I think it was in terms of
the 1983 amendments to the UCMJ. There have been
several --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You're way ahead of me
because I don't know what the '83 amendments would refer
to. What was the subject matter?
MR. SHAH: Okay. Well, what Mr. Taft was
testifying to, we believe, are -- he was -- the specific
testimony that Mr. Taft was giving was related to the
boards of correction, I believe, and whether that the
boards of correction should retain jurisdiction review
of final court-martial judgments, so his testimony was
related to that distinct issue.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Now, with respect to the
boards of correction, I take it there's nothing
specifically in the statute that says there's coram
nobis jurisdiction?
MR. SHAH: Nothing specific in the UCMJ?
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes.
MR. SHAH: There's nothing specific in the
UCMJ --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Now, if he was right about
that, that would undercut your argument that, with
respect to a special court-martial and subsequent
proceedings, there could be no coram nobis because
there's no specific reference in the statute in either
case?
MR. SHAH: No, Your Honor. What Mr. Taft
was testifying to was the state of the prevailing law in
1983 before the CAAF. The fact that Congress did not
amend the UCMJ in light of Mr. Taft's testimony -- this
Court has said on multiple occasions that we don't read
into congressional silence --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Oh, I quite agree. The
premise of my -- sort of my argument to you a second ago
was that if we accept the proposition that Mr. Taft was
making a correct statement of law --
MR. SHAH: Right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- then the logic would in
effect answer your argument that because there is no
specific grant of coram nobis jurisdiction with respect
to special court-martials and subsequent proceedings,
there couldn't be any. That's the only point that I was
trying to make.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I don't think we can
read that into the silence, and here's why. We have
much more precise legislative history on this very
point. At the time the provision was enacted, at the
time the UCMJ was enacted, there was Article 73 of the
UCMJ provides one means of collateral review within the
military justice system once a court-martial conviction
is final, and that's a new trial petition, which is
limited to certain subject matter and certain time
limits.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It is pretty limited. What
is it, it's limited to fact and fraud.
MR. SHAH: To fraud on the court and newly
discovered evidence.
The person who drafted that provision --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it available to
someone who enters a guilty plea?
MR. SHAH: It does not appear it would be
available to someone who has entered a guilty plea. The
government is not aware of any cases where the military
has granted an Article 73 petition to someone who has
pled guilty.
But the important point is at the time that
provision was enacted, the person who drafted that
provision testified before Congress and said, we've
considered the universe of post-conviction remedies, and
specifically named coram nobis relief, and said that
we've looked at it and we think the only circumstances
that warrant appeal within the military court system
beyond coram nobis are those stated within or including
coram nobis are those stated within Article 73
specifically.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I ask you just -- and
I'm doing this from memory, so my premise of the
question may be wrong. But I do recall the quotation of
testimony in the brief, and I -- if I recall it
correctly, the person testifying said that the 73 was
sort of a combination of coram nobis and new -- and new
trial motion practice. But my recollection was that
there was no statement, or at least it wasn't quoted in
the briefs, to the effect that this is all there is.
Now, there was -- it was explaining what 73
did, but it was not an explanation to the effect that if
you didn't get under the tent flap in 73 you were out
completely. Am I correct about that?
MR. SHAH: Well, I'll read the testimony to
you, Justice Souter.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. SHAH: And this appears on pages 25 to
26 of the government's brief, and it says: "What we did
was to combine what amounts to a writ of error coram
nobis with a motion for a new trial on newly discovered
evidence. We have provided for both of them and to our
minds they are the only additional circumstances over
and above the appeal that need a remedy."
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, I see.
MR. SHAH: So I think that's conclusive on
this point and provides a firm ground on which to
distinguish this Court's decision in Morgan, which you
referenced earlier, that applies coram nobis in the
Article III system. Congress considered it for the
Article I system and rejected it in the military courts.
JUSTICE ALITO: Does that mean that your
argument boils down to the proposition that the relevant
provisions of the UCMJ were intended to eliminate coram
nobis, or is there more to your argument than that?
MR. SHAH: I don't think it's to eliminate
coram nobis. It was never available within the military
court system.
JUSTICE ALITO: All right. Well, then I'm
not quite sure I understand your argument. Maybe you
can explain why you contend that if the Respondent had
been convicted in a Federal district court and
everything else was the same, he would be able to
petition for a writ of coram nobis, but he can't in the
military courts. What is the basis for that? Both a
Federal district court -- a Federal district court is a
creature of statute. It has the jurisdiction that
Congress gives it and no greater jurisdiction. It has
certain what's been termed inherent authority. The All
Writs Act applies to it. All of those things are true
of the military courts as well. So what is the basis
for the distinction?
MR. SHAH: There are two distinctions, at
least two distinctions, Your Honor. The first is in the
Federal court system there is an independent basis of
jurisdiction when someone is bringing a Federal
constitutional challenge, collateral challenge to their
conviction. That separate independent basis of
jurisdiction is 1331. There is -- there is independent
basis of jurisdiction. The All Writs Act does not
confer jurisdiction. The Court made that very clear in
Goldsmith. What it requires is an independent basis of
jurisdiction. That exists in Article III courts. It
does not exist in the military court system. That's the
first distinction.
The second distinction, Your Honor, even if
this Court wasn't convinced by that jurisdictional
argument, is that Congress specifically considered
whether to -- to allow coram nobis petitions within the
military court system. The All Writs Act was designed
to be a residual source of authority to fill gaps within
the system. It is not --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well -- well, that, as I
understand, was the argument I started out with: That
the --Your argument is that the UCMJ was intended to
eliminate coram nobis if it had been previously
available. That's your -- that's the argument you're
making now?
MR. SHAH: Well, again, I would -- I would
quibble with the characterization to -- to -- that it
was previously available. As of the enactment of the
UCMJ in 1950, coram nobis relief had never been
available within the military justice system.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what is the difference
on the face -- on their face between the relevant
provisions of the UCMJ and the provisions that govern
the ability of a criminal defendant in Federal district
court to get relief after being convicted? There are
limited avenues that are provided under the Rules of
Criminal Procedure and under the statutes --
MR. SHAH: Right. Right.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- just as there are in the
UCMJ. What -- what is the difference?
MR. SHAH: The difference is significant,
Your Honor. In the -- in the military court system
there is only one avenue for post-conviction relief.
That is, after your -- and I'm speaking after your
direct review -- appellate review process has been
complete, there's only one, and that is the Article 73
new trial petition. Of course, in -- in the Article III
system there are several independent grants of
jurisdiction, the habeas jurisdiction --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I thought the Morgan
case said that coram nobis was not dependent on any
independent basis of jurisdiction. Didn't the Court say
that a coram nobis application challenging a conviction
is a step in the criminal case and not like habeas,
where relief is sought in a separate case and record,
the beginning of a separate proceeding?
MR. SHAH: Right. In -- in Morgan, Your
Honor, the Court was refuting the argument that 2255,
section 2255, occupied the field and, therefore there
wouldn't be a coram nobis petition. It rejected that
argument. But I don't think the rejection of that
argument means that coram nobis, which is still a
residual source of authority, is available when Congress
has specifically rejected its application within the
Article I system.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but -- but you're
shifting ground a little bit. The tenor of the
questions from Justice Alito and Justice Ginsburg really
is to the effect: Does coram nobis require an
independent source of -- of jurisdiction? And I should
think not.
MR. SHAH: Well, your --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The whole idea of coram
nobis is to protect the integrity of the jurisdiction
the court already has.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, this Court could not
have been clearer in Goldsmith. It says the All Writs
Act requires an independent basis, an existing
independent basis of jurisdiction.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I acknowledge that.
But there is a source of jurisdiction here. Coram nobis
is to ensure the accurate exercise of jurisdiction that
the court has earlier asserted.
MR. SHAH: With respect, Your Honor, I would
argue that the past jurisdiction in this case does not
constitute an existing basis of jurisdiction.
JUSTICE BREYER: But suppose -- suppose that
the problem was a professional soldier convicted a
certain number of years ago of a particular crime, a few
years later through some amazing mistake they wrote the
wrong number down. The clerk just wrote the wrong
number of the code provision. That's all.
MR. SHAH: Okay.
JUSTICE BREYER: And it made it a felony
instead. It was actually a misdemeanor. What's he
supposed to do? I mean, normally you go back to the
Court and say: Judge, you know, they just made --
everyone admits it's a simple transcribing error. Would
you please correct it? Now, how -- how is that supposed
to work in the military?
MR. SHAH: If he is still within custody --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. No, he's -- he's
finished his sentence. This is several years ago. They
just now discovered it, and it could affect him in the
future that it happened in fact to be a misdemeanor he
was convicted of. But the -- the code section they
wrote down is a felony.
MR. SHAH: Well, if the military isn't
willing to correct that sort of error on its own as an
administrative matter and that he needs some judicial
forum to --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Yes, that's right.
MR. SHAH: -- to get relief, he can go to
the Court of Federal Claims and bring a Tucker Act
action. There is a 6-year statute of limitations.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, this is 7 years.
(Laughter.)
MR. SHAH: Well -- well, then, Your Honor,
he probably wouldn't have a judicial forum.
JUSTICE BREYER: He can't even do that. So
nobody in the military, in fact, once their thing is
final -- then it has nothing to do with it, in your
view, that he has left the military?
MR. SHAH: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: You are saying -- you are
saying, whether you are in the military, whether you are
out of the military, no matter how egregious, no matter
how obvious, there is no route for a military person, a
professional, to go and get an obvious error corrected
if -- if he has missed the statute, that there was an --
the civil statute of limitations, it's hard for him to
go to the Tucker Act. He's been in the Philippines the
entire time.
MR. SHAH: Justice Breyer, to make your
hypothetical work he has to no longer be in custody. He
has had to have discovered this error 6 years after the
conviction has happened.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, it happened. It
really happened.
MR. SHAH: The military would have had to
deny this -- correcting his --
JUSTICE BREYER: What I'm trying to do is
suggest that I think you -- I can't quite decide what
stool you want to rest on. Part of this you say, well,
he's a civilian that has left the military. And then I
read that. It seems to have nothing to do with it. But
your other argument seems to be that doesn't matter.
MR. SHAH: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: No military soldier can
correct an error, no matter how egregious, even a
technical -- you know, they just wrote the wrong thing
down, because Congress didn't want them to. Now, I
doubt that Congress thought about that. I'm just not
sure they didn't want them to.
MR. SHAH: Well -- well, Your Honor, once
again, your hypothetical, I think there would be an
administrative recourse there. And, of course, there's
always the fail-safe of a presidential pardon if the
obvious -- if the error is that obvious and that
egregious.
Now, you did refer to a second argument,
which is an independent argument, which is that the
military courts lack jurisdiction for the independent
reason that Respondent -- it's an independent reason,
Your Honor, that he lacks any remaining connection to
the armed forces and, therefore, cannot invoke the
military courts. This Court held in Toth v. Quarrels
that Congress lacks power under Article I to extend
military court jurisdiction over a civilian.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I know, but that's --
that's a different -- that's a different issue from --
from whether it -- it may retain some residual
jurisdiction to correct an error with respect to someone
over whom it has had jurisdiction.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, once again, that
would be relying on the long-expired past jurisdiction.
It is --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you -- you made that
point before. And I -- I want to follow up with one
question on that. As I recall, it was in response to
the -- to the Morgan argument. The -- the Morgan
analysis was, well, this isn't a -- a new ground or a
new assertion. It is jurisdiction as would be the case
in habeas. It, in effect, is -- is kind of a
metaphysical continuation of the -- the jurisdiction
that existed before.
And your response to that was, in effect, a
Goldsmith response. And -- and you said past
jurisdiction doesn't mean present jurisdiction. The
past jurisdiction is over, and that's under -- under the
statute and under Goldsmith that's -- that's the end of
it.
Couldn't that same argument simply have been
made, however, in -- in Morgan? In other words, Morgan
was a case in which the point of finality had been
reached. There was no specific statute in Morgan saying
there's coram nobis jurisdiction, and yet the Court's
analysis -- I -- I called it metaphysical a second ago
-- was that this really was simply a continuation of the
past jurisdiction. If that was a sound argument in
Morgan, why isn't it a sound argument with respect to
the -- the military code here?
MR. SHAH: Well, because the military --
Congress specifically contemplated that possibility, and
now I'm going back to my Article 73 argument, Your
Honor, and to the legislative history which shows what
Congress was trying to do in Article 73. That is, to
encapsulate whatever post-conviction remedy it's
intended to be available within the military court
system appears in Article 73 that considered coram
nobis.
JUSTICE SOUTER: It -- it did do that, and
there's -- there is no question that it certainly made
finality provisions in Article 76. But in the civilian
system, so far as express provision is concerned, there
are limits. There are statutes of limitations, and it
seems to me that the same argument could be made there
that was made here --
MR. SHAH: Well, I think this --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- that was made there.
MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I think the structure
of the military court system is different than the
civilian system, and -- and that goes back to --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Outside of 1531, is there
any structural difference?
MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor. In the military
court system, Article 76, even though it was first
enacted in 19 -- in 1950, there were other provisions
analogous to it. It's always been understood within the
military system that once a conviction was final and the
military authority executed the judgment, that was it in
terms of review within the military justice system, save
for a presidential pardon. Any further relief to be
obtained was through an Article III habeas petition in
the Federal courts. That's the understanding that
Congress had when it enacted the UCMJ, and that's the
understanding --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You could say the same
thing, that when the statute of limitations is passed in
a habeas case or, indeed, after habeas has been fallen,
so far as the statutes governing Article III courts are
concerned, that's the end. And yet Morgan says, no, it
isn't the end. There's this coram nobis jurisdiction.
MR. SHAH: Well, the difference is in
Morgan, the Court specifically said that Congress did
not intend to occupy the field when it passed 2255
governing habeas relief for Federal prisoners. That's
not the situation here. We know that Congress intended
to occupy the field when it passed Article 73.
So regardless of the jurisdictional
arguments, Your Honor, there's no right of action,
there's no right of coram nobis relief within the
military courts.
Your Honor, if there are no further
questions, I would like to reserve the remainder of my
time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. SHAH: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Freedus.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW S. FREEDUS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. FREEDUS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Because there are courts, appellate military
courts must have coram nobis power to protect the
integrity of their judgments. The court of appeals
correctly asserted the same coram nobis power that
Article III courts have.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you mean, "they
must"? Do you think it's unconstitutional to deprive
them of that?
MR. FREEDUS: No, Your Honor. We believe
that they were given the All Writs Act authority as a
birth right in 1950, and that includes all prerogative
writs, including coram nobis.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what you mean by
"they must have"?
MR. FREEDUS: And also, Your Honor, they
must have the ability to protect the integrity of their
judgments just like other Federal courts have. The
superior court in D.C. has the power to issue coram
nobis to protect its judgments.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's fine, but -- but is
it unconstitutional for Congress to say military courts
are different, they've always been different, the need
for finality is greater there, and we're conducting a
different rule for there?
MR. FREEDUS: I think Congress has the
authority to legislate very broadly in the area of
collateral remedies, and Congress could take away the
writ of coram nobis if it left in its place an adequate
and effective substitute, like it did in 2255.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, oh, oh, so it would be
unconstitutional if they did not leave in its place an
adequate and effective substitute --
MR. FREEDUS: Our view is that if --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- which would cover every
situation no matter how fanciful, right?
MR. FREEDUS: No, Your Honor. We believe
there has to be reasonable opportunity to bring a
colorable constitutional claim for which there is no
other avenue of relief, which we believe is the case
here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- which case
of ours establishes the proposition that there always
has to be an available avenue of relief?
MR. FREEDUS: The best authority we have for
that, Your Honor, is Webster v. Doe, which we believe
stands for the proposition that courts should read
statutes so as not to preclude judicial review of a
constitutional claim absent an express congressional
intent to do so --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's
different than saying there always has to be available
relief. That's saying you think Congress usually
intends there to be available relief. And that would be
a doubtful assumption here, given the rather clear
expressions of finality that -- that are -- that are in
the UCMJ statutes.
MR. FREEDUS: On -- well, if I could make
two points, Your Honor. On the first, we don't believe
that there is square authority for the bedrock
constitutional proposition that Congress can wipe away
all avenues of relief for a claim. We believe that we
were --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't -- you
don't think there's authority for the proposition they
can do it?
MR. FREEDUS: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm looking for
authority that says they can't do it.
MR. FREEDUS: I'm not aware of any, Your
Honor. We would -- I think we are --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did -- did coram nobis
relief -- you say it has to be there. Was it ever used
before in the military courts?
MR. FREEDUS: Yes. I would like to -- yes,
Your Honor, it has been used since 1966. I assume you
may be asking about before 1950.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Indeed, yes.
MR. FREEDUS: Yes. Well, the reason it
hasn't happened before 1950 is that the UCMJ was created
in 1950, and that was the first time there were military
courts. There were no courts, so therefore no All Writs
Act authority prior to 1950.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Worse still. My goodness.
So you were --
MR. FREEDUS: Absolutely.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- convicted by a
court-martial and had no basis for -- for getting that
revised, and that -- that lasted for a couple of hundred
years, right? And that was okay or it wasn't okay?
MR. FREEDUS: That was -- I think that's the
impetus behind the UCMJ, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's fine. I mean,
you can patch it up and say that they thought it wasn't
a good idea to have just military courts. But it's very
hard to make the constitutional argument you're making
when for a couple hundred years in military, in military
courts, which are different, there -- there was no
relief at all.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Will you clarify something
for me. Are you contending that the result you seek is
constitutionally compelled? I didn't think you were.
MR. FREEDUS: Not -- no, not -- we aren't,
Your Honor. I was more responding to the Chief
Justice's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you were saying it is.
Just say, no, it's not constitutionally compelled and
I'll be happy.
(Laughter.)
MR. FREEDUS: No, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You might say that there
is a lurking constitutional question and that we ought
to interpret the statute to avoid a constitutional
concern.
MR. FREEDUS: I think, Your Honor, that's
the best answer that I should have given.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't like it very
much.
But what is -- your argument is that the
Constitution does not require that this person have,
right now, an available avenue of relief, your position?
MR. FREEDUS: We don't have square authority
from this Court to support that proposition.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So then it comes, as
Justice Kennedy suggested, a question of whether or not
we should read the statutes here in a particular way to
avoid confronting that question?
MR. FREEDUS: Yes, Your Honor, I think
where -- we're comfortably in that neck of the woods and
we really don't need to get closer to the scarier
question that was alluded to. I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: When you say it's lurking,
you're -- you're invoking the doctrine of constitutional
avoidance?
MR. FREEDUS: Yes, Your Honor, we are.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think it's much of
a lurk when for 200 years this was going on. It's not
lurking to my mind.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you are making -- I
thought that the core of your argument is that the All
Writs Act applies to all courts established by Congress,
the military courts are included in that definition, and
there is nothing in the All Writs Act that says it
doesn't apply to the military. But the All Writs Act
requires that the writ be in aid of the court's
jurisdiction. So if you would spell out how the writ
here is in aid of the military court's jurisdiction.
MR. FREEDUS: Yes, Your Honor. We believe
it does it in a very similar way that this Court
explained in the United States v. Morgan, and that is
the writ of coram nobis aids the past appellate
jurisdiction that the Navy court had when it affirmed
and reviewed Mr. Denedo's conviction. It had
jurisdiction there.
And the coram nobis writ by its very nature
allows a court to correct an error in a case that was
before it, but it failed to perceive that error while it
had the case before it. And had it known the facts we
now know after all the remedies are no longer available,
the Court would not have issued the judgment that it
issued.
That's the -- in that sense, that's how the
writ aids the jurisdiction the Court had in the past.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if that's so, then I
guess you can have courts reviewing the civilians. They
will review after the event the court-martial
jurisdiction, the court-martials of people while they
were in the military. That will become a matter of
course anytime. I mean, there are many, many errors.
We have approximately 5,000 petitions a year claiming
some kind of constitutional error, and sometime they're
right.
MR. FREEDUS: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE BREYER: So that's what you foresee?
MR. FREEDUS: I would -- yes and no.
JUSTICE BREYER: What way is it no?
MR. FREEDUS: No is when the individual is
not in custody and the six-year statute of limitations
has expired for all the types of claims that are
available for collateral tactic of a court-martial
conviction, a declaratory judgment attack, a mandamus
attack, Court of Federal Claims attack, all those --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why -- in other words, in
the case I posed, he would -- he -- in your view, he
wouldn't have any remedy, you would agree with the
government about that, if it's seven years later you
find a clerical error?
MR. FREEDUS: We agree. But we don't think
it's necessary, actually, to decide the issue here. The
issue here really is whether coram nobis is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if, in fact, you're
waiting until the -- the civil courts have lost all
jurisdiction because the statute of limitations has
expired, why do you need this? Why can't they just go
-- I mean, why do you need this special thing that
hasn't existed for 200 years? Why don't they just go to
a civil case? And moreover, why doesn't your client
fall within that situation?
You're claiming that if all the statutes
have run and everything, there is no coram nobis
jurisdiction, I thought in your case they had all run.
MR. FREEDUS: This gets to the other piece
of the answer I was trying to give, and that is a
petitioner from the military system could not file a
coram nobis petition in the Article III courts or the
Court of Federal Claims because there's no authority
that supports the proposition that you can take a coram
nobis petition and attack a judgment from a different
jurisdiction. Coram nobis has to allow the court that
issued -- that -- that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Then you're saying that
what you're foreseeing is through coram nobis,
indefinitely, a person outside the military who once was
in it can bring constitutional challenges?
MR. FREEDUS: Yes, Your Honor, in the
military justice system.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, okay, and we see those
every day, don't we? But there is one difference. The
difference is that often, though not always, a person in
habeas who challenges a prior normal, civil system
conviction, the State can retry him; and I guess in the
instance that we're talking about, he can never be
retried. So in fact the difference would be, in your
view, the civilians who bring this would never be
retried if they're right.
MR. FREEDUS: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: And so they would have in
that sense greater protection in the military system
than in the ordinary criminal courts a person has in
habeas, because the option of retrial is often but not
always there. Now, why would Congress have intended
that?
MR. FREEDUS: I think it's the very nature
of the coram nobis petition, Your Honor, and that is
coram nobis petitioners have already served their entire
sentence, so the societal interest to seek a retrial is
much lesser than in the habeas case where there's a
lengthy sentence less -- left, and if someone gets out
of jail --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the
collateral consequences of the conviction are pretty
dramatic. In this case they decide whether the guy
stays in the country or is deported.
MR. FREEDUS: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, so I think
Justice Breyer's question is still on the table. Why
would Congress intend to afford greater relief and
remedies to somebody who's outside -- was within the
military system and is now outside, than to an ordinary
civilian under Article III jurisdiction?
MR. FREEDUS: I think there is a classic
distinction between the habeas and the coram nobis
petitioner. In a coram nobis petitioner under 2255, if
they were to file a successful petition long after a
statute of limitations had expired, they would be in no
different position than a coram nobis -- a successful
coram nobis petitioner in the military.
We would say, we do believe there's a -- a
colorable argument for -- the ability to retry Mr.
Denedo, but it's not pivotal to our case. Our view is
that the inability --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where? Colorable --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In the civilian courts or
the military courts?
MR. FREEDUS: The military courts, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: I think you have a good
answer to what my question was. I thought that was a
good answer. It's helping me. And -- but where I'm
slightly -- and maybe this is just not relevant to this
case or maybe it's for the future. Coram nobis, I
thought, was a writ that means really like technical
clerical errors or something really unusual. Is this --
I mean, it's hardly ever there. I've not really seen
more than a handful of cases.
So -- so is this writ supposed to be
available for what you're claiming is what I call a
typical error of inadequate representation? And I don't
know the answer to that question, but I think it's --
maybe you could say that's not presented. Maybe that's
for a later case. I don't know how to treat it. That's
why I'm asking.
MR. FREEDUS: I think Morgan is helpful on
that, Your Honor. Morgan is a violation of the right to
counsel, and it's this Court's --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But was -- that question
wasn't resolved, was it? I thought we were just talking
about the authority of the military courts to issue this
writ, and the question that Justice Breyer has raised,
well, is this ineffective assistance of counsel adequate
grounds to issue the writ? I thought that question was
certainly not raised before this Court.
MR. FREEDUS: Well, the government hasn't
urged that there's no ineffective assistance of counsel.
It's not in their opening --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, let's assume it
raised because Justice Breyer asked the question --
MR. FREEDUS: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- and I would be
interested in the answer.
JUSTICE BREYER: I knew it was.
MR. FREEDUS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: I thought it might be your
answer: Well, that isn't raised. And that would be a
perfectly good answer.
MR. FREEDUS: That's -- that's why --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm telling you my honest
problem which I'm trying to think through: Where are we
going with this?
MR. FREEDUS: I think --
JUSTICE BREYER: What's going to happen one
way or the other way? That's why I asked the question.
So all I'm asking is your best thought on it.
MR. FREEDUS: Yes, Your Honor. I think
United States v. Kwan and United States v. Castro are
two court -- two cases that give the answer to your
question and both of those indicate that ineffective
assistance of counsel in very similar factual
circumstances to this is a basis for coram nobis relief
after -- after the ineffective assistance is discovered.
We recognize this Court has granted in --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Military courts now since
1950 have quite a record of saying coram nobis is
available in these courts. However, they have routinely
thrown out the cases on the merits. Is there any case
within the military where the military has said anything
like inadequate assistance of counsel qualifies as a
reason to grant the writ?
MR. FREEDUS: Aside from this -- this case
below, Your Honor, I don't know of a case that raised
ineffective assistance of counsel. And you are correct
that the vast majority of these cases are thrown out of
court in the most -- in the briefest of orders. There
are cases where relief has been granted. They are few
and far between. Del Prado is one. It involved a
compositional jurisdictional error to the -- to the
court. An individual failed to elect military judge
alone in writing and waived the right to have a -- a
member's jury trial, and that was deemed a
jurisdictional defect. And long after the case was
final the conviction was set aside, and I would note the
Court in that case observed the personal jurisdiction
was no obstacle to granting the coram nobis relief.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was that person retried, do
you know?
MR. FREEDUS: I do not know, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was he still in the
military?
MR. FREEDUS: I do not know. He was -- the
relief -- the decretal paragraph of the -- of the
decision indicates that he was restored all rights and
benefits, but it stops shy of saying, you know, here's
your uniform back.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do I understand correctly
that since 1989 there were a total of 30 coram nobis
petitions filed, and of those only 4 were granted?
MR. FREEDUS: The statistics that we cited
in our brief, Your Honor, were ten coram nobis petitions
at the court of appeals within the last 10 years --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. FREEDUS: -- and 176 writ appeals from
the lower courts up to the court of appeals that don't
break out the category of writs. They could be habeas,
they could be coram nobis, mandamus, so we don't know
what percentage of the 176. But even if it was a -- a
significant percentage, it's still a tiny percentage of
the court's overall docket.
But they are rarer than hen's teeth, Your
Honor. These cases, one a year maybe would be the
average of a coram nobis --
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the theory of the
jurisdiction of the military court in the circumstance
where the individual is still in the military, he's been
convicted, and he is in custody? So he wants to get out
of custody. Now, what's the theory of that? He can --
I take it it's accepted, is it, that they can, that such
a person can ask the military justice system -- I don't
know which court -- for release on the ground that he
didn't -- wasn't adequately represented or some other
ground?
MR. FREEDUS: That would be a habeas case,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. It's a habeas
case. Now, do you have -- can you do that in the
military?
MR. FREEDUS: Yes. There are --
JUSTICE BREYER: And what's the theory of
the jurisdiction that the military courts have over
that?
MR. FREEDUS: It's similar in that it's All
Writs Act authority aiding the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Aiding what jurisdiction?
MR. FREEDUS: The direct review authority of
the military --
JUSTICE BREYER: But they've already
directly reviewed it.
MR. FREEDUS: Correct. And that's --
JUSTICE BREYER: So there is no more direct
review to be had?
MR. FREEDUS: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: So how does this aid the
direct review that is to be had, since there is none?
MR. FREEDUS: It aids it in the same way
this Court recognized it can do so in Goldsmith, where
it acknowledged that a mandamus writ could issue after
finality --
JUSTICE BREYER: I see.
MR. FREEDUS: -- to compel adherence to the
court's own judgment, so that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Within -- within the
military system?
MR. FREEDUS: Yes, Your Honor, within the
military justice system. In that -- in Goldsmith it was
a situation where Goldsmith was out of the -- you know,
out of the military. He had a final -- I guess he was
in custody, Cut he had a final court-martial conviction,
and this Court indicated that a writ of mandamus could
issue to aid past appellate jurisdiction to compel
adherence to the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All within the
system. I mean, the difference with this case is that
you're talking about somebody who is, I guess that's the
issue, out of the military system.
The problem with your position is that it
would dramatically expand the jurisdiction of the
military system. It would sort of follow everybody
they've dealt with around for their life, right?
MR. FREEDUS: The fact --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: At any time somebody
who is out of the military system, whose judgment is
supposedly final under the provisions that Congress has
established, he could come back and knock on the door 20
years later and say, I want to review my conviction.
MR. FREEDUS: That's correct, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And he would be
within the military system.
MR. FREEDUS: He would be a civilian, former
service member --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. FREEDUS: -- filing a coram nobis
petition, and the coram --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And he's back in the
military system, 20 years later.
MR. FREEDUS: For purposes of the coram
nobis petition.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In coram nobis cases in
the civil system, do courts appoint special masters when
they're an appellate court and they have to find out if
coram nobis was --
MR. FREEDUS: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or do they use district
courts as special masters?
MR. FREEDUS: They --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In this case, the court
had to invent a procedural device: There's going to be
a new court-martial, which is a little odd because it's
a new court-martial sitting in judgment on somebody who
isn't even in the military any more.
MR. FREEDUS: It's not a court-martial, Your
Honor. It's what's called a DuBay proceeding, and what
happens is -- and this in the decretal paragraph of the
decision below. A remand is for further factual
development, and if the case can be disposed of on
declarations, if the government came forth -- it didn't
do so below -- but if it did so on remand and provided
affidavits that blew our affidavits out of the water,
the court could dismiss the petition out of hand.
If they couldn't do that or if there is a
credibility contest that needed to be resolved, what
would happen is the court would order what's called a
DuBay hearing, where a judge is appointed. And it's
just like an evidentiary hearing. Witnesses are
presented and they're cross-examined and then findings
of fact and conclusions of law are drawn. And then that
is put into a record, added to the record of trial, and
reviewed in the coram nobis petition.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But all of that is
extra-statutory in your -- this instance?
MR. FREEDUS: We don't believe so. We
believe the court -- the Navy court here has decisional
authority under Article 66 to do factfinding. It's a
very unique court. Congress created these courts with
factfinding power, which is different than I think
virtually all appellate courts, save maybe one or two
unusual situations. But these courts have factfinding
power, so it's right in Article 66. And these courts
also have rulemaking authority. And so does the court
of appeals, and it has exercised that to provide for
these procedures. So we don't believe --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Where are -- where are the
procedures set out for -- for military habeas?
MR. FREEDUS: They're not, and actually that
-- that -- this Court pointed that out in Noyd v. Bond.
It said that military appellate court have habeas power,
but the court of appeals hadn't provided rules, and
Congress could facilitate with rules but hadn't, but
that didn't stop this Court from saying habeas power
existed. The absence of the procedure --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Are you -- are you arguing
then that if it has habeas power without a -- a textual
basis, there's no reason to argue that it lacks coram
nobis power because there's no textual basis?
MR. FREEDUS: I think the answer to that is
yes. The negative in there caught me. But, yes, I
think that's what we're saying.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this Court has never
held that the military courts have habeas jurisdiction?
MR. FREEDUS: Yes, it has, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In what case?
MR. FREEDUS: In Noyd v. Bond this Court
squarely held that military -- the Court of Appeals at
the time has habeas authority.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: For someone still
within the military system?
MR. FREEDUS: That was the case where the
individual was pending appeal, I believe.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the answer --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that was --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- to Justice
Ginsburg is that we have never held that with respect to
a situation like the facts here, where you're dealing
with somebody who is outside -- long departed from the
military system?
MR. FREEDUS: Well, I would -- I would
direct the Court's attention, if I could, to footnote 11
of Goldsmith, where this Court says: "And of course,
once a criminal conviction has been finally reviewed
within the military system, and a servicemember in
custody has exhausted other avenues provided under the
UCMJ to seek relief from his conviction" -- citing Noyd,
the six pages therein which refers to the military
court's habeas power -- this Court in Goldsmith put
habeas power in the context of a -- a final case, so
habeas authority after final relief.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's talking about somebody
still within the military, if I -- if I heard the quote
correctly, right?
MR. FREEDUS: An individual is out of the
military if they -- if their dismissal has been executed
-- or their discharge has been executed and they're in
Leavenworth. They could even be moved to another
Federal penitentiary and still in custody.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The --
MR. FREEDUS: So they're not really in the
military.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The quote you referred to
from Goldsmith says: "And a servicemember in custody."
So I think Goldsmith, in that footnote that you're
citing, is presenting a service member still in custody,
having exhausted all other areas, can come to a Federal
district court and seek habeas. It's not talking about
someone who is out of the military.
MR. FREEDUS: I read it differently, Your
Honor. I read it -- the next clause in that sentence is
referring to habeas outside. I read this sentence as
clearly saying that there's direct review. There's
habeas after direct review within the military. And
then there's of course collateral review in the Article
III courts, if -- if everything misfires within the
military justice system.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what am I missing?
I thought that the footnote reads once a criminal
conviction has been finally reviewed within the military
system a service member, having exhausted all other
areas, can petition in a Federal district court for a
writ of habeas corpus. I don't see anything that talks
about someone who is no longer a service member.
MR. FREEDUS: Right. I -- I see the
in-custody and exhausted avenues provided in the UCMJ as
referring to a phase before you get to the Article III
courts. Obviously, if I'm reading it wrong, the Court
will let me know, but I read that as prior to Article
III review.
If I could talk briefly about the 1983
legislation -- it came up in opposing counsel's opening.
I think it sheds a lot of light on the availability of
coram nobis relief. When Mr. Taft testified, he wasn't
simply giving his -- he wasn't simply stating the state
of the law. He was providing the state of the law as a
premise for legislative action, in particular stripping
collateral review authority from the correction boards,
which used to be able to review collaterally, after
final judgment, military convictions. And that existed
before the UCMJ was enacted.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is -- this is
at a hearing. This isn't a Member of Congress,
obviously, that we're talking about. It's not even a
single Member of Congress?
MR. FREEDUS: This is the chief counsel for
the Department of Defense proposing the legislation and
offering the only premise there was for the particular
legislative change that I'm referring to, which is
stripping the -- the correction boards of this
collateral review power and saying, when we do that,
don't worry, Congress, because it will channel these
collateral -- post-final collateral attacks into the
military courts, and -- and they can have habeas. He
says habeas -- I'm sorry --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under the specific
--
MR. FREEDUS: -- coram nobis.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under the specific
provision that was at issue, which is accompanied by
very strict finality provisions.
There's no suggestion in his testimony that
the availability of the relief that he's talking about
continues after the individual is outside the military
system. He's channeling -- he says these are channeled
through a specific provision applicable only within the
military system.
MR. FREEDUS: I don't read it that way, Your
Honor. I read it as channeling apt post-final attacks
within the military -- within the courts in the military
justice system, even though the person is -- is -- a
final judgment typically happens before an individual is
no longer in the service. A final judgment is final
because the discharge has been executed. So what he's
referring to is, once you have a final judgment, you
then can seek collateral relief in the military the way
you used to be able to do it in the correction boards in
the military courts. And he was saying, now that we're
getting rid of this one collateral remedy in the
correction boards, we're giving you this other one.
We're not giving -- we're just channeling all of them
into the military appellate courts, which is a more
appropriate judicial forum. And he says clearly it
would denigrate the courts to have administrative bodies
overturning their judgments, once again showing that
these are final judgments that we're talking about. And
the only -- that was the only premise he offered to make
the change.
So stripping away one remedy while leaving
another intact was the single premise, which is
reflected in the House -- the Senate report on page 52
of our brief, where Congress adopts the exact language
out of his sworn testimony with, you know, a tiny
variation, but that's the premise for the change in the
legislation.
I'd also note that, in that legislation,
this is the Department of Defense proposing to open the
door to this Court's jurisdiction for the first time in
-- in 28 U.S.C. 1259. And when it did that -- it had to
survey the whole landscape of military justice
jurisdiction, and when it did that, it saw there were
direct review cases, which are reflected in 1259
paragraphs 1, 2, and 3, and this other category that is
defined by what's not in paragraphs 1, 2, and 3, and
that's the All Writs Act cases. The government
acknowledges --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. I've had
the chance to go back and look at the Senate report, and
like Mr. Taft's testimony, there's no suggestion in
there that the relief he's talking about continues after
someone is out of the service.
MR. FREEDUS: I think that's implicit in
final judgment, Your Honor. If there's a final
judgment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, a final
judgment is subject to review in the appellate courts
within -- in the military system, just like you have --
a final court of appeals judgment is subject to review
in our system.
MR. FREEDUS: Your Honor, the -- the key
difference is that -- two things: He's referring to
post-finality, which means that the discharge or the --
you know, the sentence has been executed. The person is
out. They're a civilian at that point. And coram
nobis, by its very nature, is someone who is not in
custody. So I don't think it's too much of an inference
to read that what he is saying here is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you have
review in the appellate system. Someone is -- the
judgment is they're to be discharged, and they seek
review. Are they discharged while the review is going
on?
MR. FREEDUS: No, on direct review, you're
right, Your Honor. They're -- they remain within the
service, and it's interesting that the government cites
Mr. Taft's testimony as authoritative on that point.
And that -- that makes good sense. Keep the person in
for a direct review so that if the sentence is set
aside, we can retry.
But there has been decades of
military justice authority that says even if someone is
discharged before their conviction is set aside -- so
they're on direct review, their conviction is set aside,
after they're already out in their civilian world, you
know, doing whatever they're doing -- if the government
wants to retry them, they do. And the government is --
is the party that asserts continuing jurisdiction to
re-prosecute.
And that's why this case is so
distinguishable from Toth v. Quarles, because in Toth
there was no conviction while the individual was on
active duty. And that's why there couldn't have been a
retry. Here there was conviction on active duty, which
is where jurisdiction attaches. It cements in. And if
the government wants to invoke that to retry Mr. Denedo,
it can try that.
I would say, though, that if --
if there were a personal jurisdiction loophole here,
like there was for the MEJA, the Military
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act, Congress could fix it
in a heartbeat. But we're talking about, you know, ten
cases in ten years. So even if someone, you know, got
away without retrial --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You -- you don't
think that if you prevail in this case, we're going to
see a lot more coram nobis petitions than we did before?
MR. FREEDUS: I -- I think there would be an
uptick, and there may actually have been an uptick while
this case has been up here at this level, because it has
-- it has gotten a lot of visibility in the military,
just like there was an uptick after Noyd v. Bond when
this Court declared for the first time that military
courts had All Writs Act power.
So I think there could be an uptick. But
once the novelty of it wears off, I think we will see
level off. And you will see the same trend that we have
seen since 66 when it was available the first time. I
mean this isn't new. The only thing new here is the
government's interpretation of Article 66.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. FREEDUS: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Shah, you have three minutes remaining.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Shah, could you tell us
what the government's position is on whether, when
somebody has been discharged from the service and then a
conviction which he -- which he suffered while he was in
the service is set aside, can he be retried in military
courts?
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PRATIK A. SHAH
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SHAH: Not if he has passed his
enlistment period, no, Your Honor. The government's
view is they would not be able to retry him.
I would just like to make four quick points
in response. First, to the Chief Justice's question,
could someone be in custody after finality? Of course,
yes, that -- that could be the case. The military
doesn't have to issue a bad conduct discharge as part of
its sentence. He could still be in confinement within
the military during the post finality period.
The second point I would like to make is
that Noyd v. Bond is clearly distinguishable. That
dealt with habeas review within the military while the
person was still pursuing his direct appeal. So there
was a clear, independent basis of jurisdiction in the
Noyd v. Bond type situation, and that's the Article 66
and 67 direct review jurisdiction, and that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What has direct review got
to do with habeas?
MR. SHAH: Well -- well, Your Honor, the --
the habeas would be in aid of the direct review
jurisdiction. In -- in Noyd -- in the Noyd v. Bond --
JUSTICE SOUTER: In the civil system we
regard it as -- as entirely a separate proceeding.
MR. SHAH: Well, what was going on in Noyd
v. Bond, Your Honor, is he was pursuing a habeas
petition for release pending the -- the resolution of
his direct appeal. So the military courts just referred
the petition to the same court reviewing his direct
appeal on the merits, and it became part and parcel of
that jurisdiction.
The third point I would like to -- to make
is in response to Justice Kennedy's question, which
shows the incompatibility of coram nobis relief within
the military justice system. That they've had to create
this DuBay procedure where -- where a new court-martial
-- and DuBay sets this out. The new court-martial does
have to be convened, and then they would have a
factfinding tribunal in which new -- a new military
judge would have to be assigned to govern it.
None of that is specified within Congress's
scheme. That has all been created. It shows the
incompatibility of the practical burdens that this
procedure places on the military, and nothing in Article
66(c) which governs the jurisdiction of the military
appellate courts, the intermediate courts, references
any independent factfinding power. It says in a case
referred to it, the court of criminal appeals may act
only with respect to the findings and sentence as
approved by the convening authority. It may affirm only
such findings of guilty and the sentence or such part or
amount of the sentence as it finds correct in law and
fact and determines on the basis of the entire record.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't you
briefly make your fourth point.
MR. SHAH: The fourth -- fourth point is in
response to Justice Breyer. My military colleagues
inform me that in the situation of a true clerical
error, they could go to the Board of Correction of
Military Review and seek correction of that error.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:08 a.m., the case in
the above-entitled matter was submitted.)
27:18 Advocate 7:9 39:4,8,9,20 12:9,21 13:1 38:25
affect 20:18 47:7,21 15:19,21 16:1 assuming 6:17
56:15 45:20 anytime 33:23 18:22,25 19:1 assurance 7:16
59:1 affirmatively 15:10 47:20 23:20 24:7,14 attack 34:10,11
ago 12:21 20:3 41:13,15,16 37:13 56:11 attention 48:4
agree 9:22 12:20 53:15 58:10 26:15 54:8
ahead 11:15 1:14 Article 3:20 19:2 25:20
aiding 42:20,21 appellate 3:11 10:12,18,18,25 30:9 31:25
43:7 7:11 18:9 27:3 14:1,11 15:16 42:20,22 46:10
alerted 9:16 45:2 46:13,23 18:10,11 19:4 48:13 50:10
11:9 17:9,20 18:3 54:1 58:8 24:24 25:3,16 availability 50:5
17:6 19:7 applicable 51:13 25:23 26:5,13 51:10
21:3,21 allow 7:4 17:5 application 9:17 27:7 35:9 37:4 available 8:14
30:9 35:13 18:17 19:3 46:10,15 49:12 10:24 13:21,24
allowing 11:2 applied 9:11 49:24 50:1 15:23 17:13,17
53:2 allows 33:10 applies 4:20 56:1 57:3 58:6 17:19 19:2
58:10 alluded 32:9 10:18 15:15 Articles 4:5 24:23 28:20
50:9 amazing 20:4 apply 32:23 54:11,14,15 33:13 34:9
11:10 appropriate asking 7:20 30:3 avenue 18:7
11:13,16 approved 58:12 aspects 3:23 avenues 6:15
amounts 15:6 33:24 27:6 29:13 48:8
analysis 23:21 areas 49:4,19 assigned 58:2 avoid 31:15 32:5
20:24 answer 6:23 47:5 38:23 39:22,24 aware 13:25
52:6 8:21 13:1 arguing 47:3 40:6,10 29:21
57:13 42:13 43:25 55:11 56:2,17 closer 32:8
25:12 21:14,23 22:2 56:19 58:9,24 4:2 collateral 8:8,13
44:11,21 22:6,13 33:18 58:25 circumstance 13:11 16:18
34:3,5,12,20 cases 4:20,21 42:1 28:4 34:9
39:1,5,7,11,15 40:13 41:23 15:9 39:23 51:23 52:1
Breyer's 36:25 category 41:17 citizenship 10:1 colorable 28:15
19:17,18 brief 14:16 15:5 52:25 10:1 37:13,16
30:14 41:12 52:14 caught 47:8 civil 4:20 10:10 combination
47:5,6 briefest 40:12 cements 55:1 21:20 34:21 14:18
58:15 briefly 50:3 certain 13:14,14 35:1,24 45:1 combine 15:6
3:7 28:14 35:18 challenge 3:13 23:8 25:3,12 32:7
56:12 36:3 16:18,18 37:4,17 44:16 committee
28:13,16 16:17 35:24 civilians 33:19 comparable
29:10,13 broadly 28:3 challenging 36:3 10:12
37:12 burdens 58:5 18:17 claim 5:24 6:14 compel 43:12,22
chance 53:5 28:15,25 29:13 compelled 31:3
C change 50:21 claimant 10:7 31:8
12:16 channeled 51:12 claims 21:3 34:8 18:10
called 24:12 51:12,16 52:3 clarify 31:1 14:25
12:1 18:19 19:24 29:19 31:5,12 clearer 19:16 conclusions 46:3
51:24 23:22 24:9 31:20 32:2 clearly 49:10 conclusive 15:12
26:4 28:16,18 36:19,24 43:14 52:5 56:24 conduct 56:20
55:18 38:10 40:4,8,9 50:18 51:3,6 client 35:1 16:22
53:7 57:21 16:25 17:3,6 court-martial
54:19 corpus 49:20 18:22 19:14,15 11:23 12:10
8:6 12:16 convening 58:12 12:23 14:25 21:3 23:6,8 33:20 34:9
15:16 convicted 9:7 20:13,23 22:14 24:23 25:11,16 43:20 45:10,11
17:4 19:2 16:3 17:24 23:12 29:18 26:9 27:2,5,20 45:13 57:23,24
23:7 20:2,20 30:13 33:10 36:5 32:1 33:3,6,10 court-martials
25:25 42:3 40:10 43:1,4 33:14,17 34:11 13:3 33:21
27:23
29:4,12
6:7 8:7 corrected 21:18 39:20,25 40:12 create 57:22
36:10 13:12 16:19 correcting 22:5 40:16,21 41:13 created 30:6
44:10 18:17 22:1 correction 11:21 41:16 42:1,7 46:11 58:4
50:15
33:7 11:22 12:1 43:8,21 45:2,8 creature 16:8
52:14 34:10 35:25 50:10,22 51:24 45:21,24 46:9 credibility 45:23
36:20 40:20 52:2 58:21,22 46:9,11,16,22 crime 20:3
28:25 48:6,9 49:17 27:6 41:8 47:10,14,15 17:23 18:1,18
9:25 50:12 counsel 6:3 58:10 46:2
17:4 coram 3:13,24 38:14,19,23 3:20 4:7 10:25 21:24 34:7
7:18,18 10:13 39:22 40:6,10 15:17 16:6,12 42:3,4 43:20
15:15,20,23 country 36:22 28:23 29:25
28:15,25 17:18 18:15,17 couple 30:15,23 32:20,21 33:19 D 3:1
30:22 18:24 19:1,8 course 18:11 34:21 35:9 day 35:22
32:11 19:12,20 24:11 22:21 33:23 36:8 37:17,18 dealing 47:25
35:18 24:24 26:7,16 48:5 49:12 37:19 38:17 dealt 44:6 56:25
29:23 court 1:1,12 3:9 42:17 45:1,6 decide 22:7
37:6,7,10,11 5:15,19,20,22 52:4,6 53:13 15:14 41:5
23:10 25:11 doctrine 32:11 24:22 existing 19:17
35:12 37:10 54:17,17 ensure 19:21 expand 44:4
52:19 43:2,6 48:4 14:4 21:22 36:14 explaining
37:14 55:2 disagreed 5:11 drew 5:20 33:10,11,25 expressions 29:7
10:23 discipline 8:2 E 2:1 3:1,1 established F
52:19 discovered earlier 6:20,22 32:20 44:11 face 17:21,21
20:18 21:25 effect 4:17 10:22 28:19 fact 10:6,20
9:10,15,23 dismissal 48:18 24:1 evidence 13:19 34:20 36:2
disposed 45:17 effected 5:11 15:8 44:7 46:3
16:13 17:1,2 elect 40:16 48:18,19 51:21 facts 33:12
distinctions 15:22 17:12 executes 4:9 factual 39:22
25:14 54:22 56:24 enacting 7:23 49:23 fail-safe 22:22
35:22,23 district 16:3,7,7 11:5 exist 16:25 fall 35:2
43:25 17:23 45:5 enactment existed 23:25 fallen 26:4
49:5,19 17:17 34:25 47:2 fanciful 28:12
footnote 48:4 25:22 26:18 goodness 30:10 42:10,12 46:20
forces 3:10 7:13 future 20:19 govern 17:22 47:11,16 48:11
21:3 8:2 23:5 37:25 58:2 48:12,13 49:5
26:11 forecloses 4:10 governing 26:5 49:9,11,20
34:11 5:21 G 26:11 51:1,2 56:25
48:21 foresee 34:3 G 3:1 government 57:6,8,13
foreseeing 35:16 gaps 17:7 5:13 6:2,7,8 hand 7:24 45:21
forum 20:25 7:9 8:15,24 38:22 45:18 45:24
8:7 11:23 fraud 13:17,18 19:7 32:18 grant 13:2 40:7 30:22
21:11 Freedus 1:18 37:16 38:15 granted 14:1 hear 3:3
40:20 2:5 26:23,24 40:1 41:8,14 39:25 40:13 heard 48:15
44:10 27:1,11,17 47:10,13,22,24 41:10 hearing 45:25
50:12 28:2,10,13,21 48:22,25 49:15 granting 40:22 46:1 50:15
29:9,18,21 give 35:7 39:20 grants 18:12 heartbeat 55:8
53:10,10 30:1,5,12,17 given 6:23 8:5 greater 7:10 held 3:11 23:6
31:4,11,17,25 8:12 11:4 16:9 27:25 47:11,15,24
27:25 34:2,4,6,17 31:18 ground 15:13 helping 37:23
43:10 35:6,19 36:5 gives 16:9 19:6 23:21 hen's 41:22
56:18,22 36:12,23 37:5 giving 11:20 42:7,9 high-water 7:1
39:2,6,10,14 go 6:3,9 8:9 38:20 historical 8:11
58:11,13 42:10,15,19,22 53:5 58:21 44:1 honest 39:11
25:16 48:3,17,23 Goldsmith 3:20 16:15 17:2
30:7 49:7,22 50:18 4:1 16:23 H 18:6,22 19:15
55:19,24 51:5,15 53:9 19:16 24:2,5 habeas 5:4,12 19:23 21:7
53:17 54:5 43:8,17,18 9:2 18:13,18 22:19 23:4,14
30:2 16:16,19,20,23 issue 11:24 47:11 52:20,23 44:8,14,18,21
31:5,11 18:12,16 19:9 23:10 27:20 54:19 55:1,5,7 44:25 45:5,8
32:6,13 19:17,18 23:1 34:18,19 38:17 57:2,4,9,18 46:6,19 47:3
35:19 23:2,3 57:2 38:20 43:9,22 58:7 47:10,13,17,21
58:9 44:2 51:7 jurisdictional 47:22,23,23
38:13 indicate 39:21 56:20 17:3 26:14 48:14,22,25
40:9 indicated 43:21 issued 33:14,15 40:15,19 49:14,15 50:14
41:12,23 indicates 41:5 35:14 jury 40:18 51:3,6,18
43:4,16 individual 34:6 justice 1:16 3:3 52:22 53:4,12
45:4,14 40:16 42:2 J 3:8,22 4:15 53:25 54:13
49:8 47:20 48:17 JACOB 1:6 5:16 6:1,17 7:2 55:11 56:2,5
53:10,17 51:11,19 54:23 jail 36:18 7:15,17 8:13 57:5,10,20,22
56:3,14 ineffective 38:19 judge 7:9 20:11 8:17,21 9:4,5,9 58:16,19,23
38:23 39:21,24 40:16 45:25 9:14 10:9,16 Justice's 31:6
inference 53:23 judgment 4:10 12:5,8,20,25
inherent 16:10 33:14 34:10 14:13 15:2,3 Keep 54:9
22:20 46:7 44:9 45:11 17:9,19,20 19:5,12,19
15:16 19:13 27:5,18 11:23 27:5,19 22:2,6,13 23:9 46:6
18:11 intend 26:10 27:21 52:7,8 23:17 25:1,9 Kennedy's
26:5 37:1 judicial 20:24 25:13,21 26:2 57:20
35:9 37:4 intended 15:20 21:8 28:24 26:21,23 27:1 key 53:17
50:2 17:11 24:23 52:5 27:8,15,22 kind 11:1 23:23
8:1 14:3 interest 36:15 11:22 12:3 31:1,7,12,13 know 11:16
intermediate 18:13,13,16 33:18 34:3,5 33:13 38:8,10
27:14 56:1 23:15,22,24 37:16,17,21 52:15 53:20
58:5 invoke 3:18 23:5 26:7 32:25 39:1,3,5,7,11 known 6:4 33:12
invoking 32:11 34:22 35:5,13 41:1,8,14,25
in-custody 42:1,17,21 42:24 43:2,5 lack 6:19 23:2
23:15 50:15,17 58:6,7,19,22 17:18 36:1,3
lower 41:16 23:24 24:12 20:9,19 57:23,24 58:1
50:8,8 lurking 31:14 3:20,22 4:2,7,9 misinformed newly 13:18
32:10,17 4:11 5:1,7,10 6:3,19 15:7
maintaining 8:1 13:25 14:9 mission 8:3 12:3,11 13:2
36:17 17:14 30:22 17:19 18:6 15:14 18:14,21 16:5 17:5,12
52:17,18 34:10 41:18 22:4,9,13 23:2 26:6,9 33:4 19:13,20 24:11
50:9,21 March 1:9 24:17,23 25:11 morning 3:4 27:4,6,14,21
masters 45:1,6 32:23 33:1,22 37:6,7,10,11
25:5 21:16,16 22:11 40:1,5,5,16 narrowly 4:2 44:19,24,25
34:7,22 22:14 28:12 41:2 42:1,2,6 nation 8:4 45:3 46:5 47:6
33:22 59:1 42:14,17,23 naturalization 50:6 51:5
1:18 2:5 26:24 44:2,5,9,15,22 nature 33:9 57:21
mean 8:17 10:9 45:12 46:20,23 36:12 53:22 normal 35:24
means 13:11 51:14,17,17,23 34:23,24 notice 9:25 10:6
21:24 53:19 53:14 54:13 needs 20:24 Noyd 46:22
49:21 MEJA 55:6 55:6,17,19 negative 47:8 47:14 48:9
member 44:17 56:9,19,22,25 never 6:4,5 9:10 55:18 56:24
57:1 37:10 44:3 17:12,17
22:23,23 overturning 36:13 37:8 14:6 18:7 problem 10:1
46:5 49:19 post-final 50:25 44:3
page 2:2 52:13 2:4,9 3:7 5:3,9 53:19 47:2 57:23
25:22 33:24 41:10,12 practical 8:11 4:13 5:1,7,10
20:7 22:8 56:20 phase 49:24 practice 14:19 12:11 13:3
32:14 57:17 58:13 Philippines Prado 40:14 process 7:2 11:9
particular 10:6 21:21 PRATIK 1:15 18:9
21:10 50:20 pivotal 37:14 precise 13:8 20:2 21:18
23:14 party 54:19 place 28:5,8 preclude 28:24 proposing 50:19
35:17 passed 8:19 26:3 places 58:6 preclusion 4:22 52:19
49:16 26:10,13 56:13 plea 6:4,9,18,22 preclusive 4:17 proposition
52:7 patch 30:20 13:22,24 premise 12:21 12:22 15:19
pending 47:20 please 3:9 20:13 14:14 50:9,20 28:19,23 29:12
48:21 point 4:13 5:17 27:13 protect 7:18
perceive 33:11 14:3 15:13 24:3 27:21
41:19,20,20 53:21 54:8 46:2 provide 7:10
14:4,17 21:17 points 29:10 pretty 13:16 45:19 46:24
14:4,5 15:1 22:10 regardless 26:14 31:23 42:22 43:3,6
25:4 51:7 28:23 32:4 reiterated 5:20 requires 16:23 44:12 49:10,11
49:7,8,9 50:1 5:25 19:17 32:24 49:12 50:2,10
25:3 reading 49:25 18:24 19:3 residual 17:7 53:13,15 54:1
44:10 reads 49:16 rejection 18:25 19:2 23:11 54:3,3,5,10,15
real 7:4 related 3:23 resolution 57:14 56:25 57:4,5,8
34:19 38:1,2,3 57:14 respect 11:25 42:25 46:5
reason 23:3,3 15:19 17:21 19:23 23:12 reviewing 33:19
reasonable 8:6 relief 9:2 14:7 58:11 reviews 8:19
23:19 recognize 39:25 48:9,13 50:6 response 10:20 26:15,16 27:13
31:14 recognized 4:12 51:10,23 53:7 23:19 24:1,2 28:12 30:16
36:25 4:25 43:8 57:21 56:17 57:20 31:24 34:1
38:8,15 recollection relying 23:15 58:19 36:4 38:13
39:1 14:19 remain 54:6 rest 22:8 40:17 42:12
56:17 record 18:19 remainder restored 41:5 44:6,18 46:15
40:2 46:4,4 26:19 result 31:2 48:16 49:22
recourse 22:21 56:4 23:11 rights 7:24 41:5
22:7 40:2 referenced 14:6 28:4 40:23 56:9 31:12,20 32:2
58:10 34:14 52:1,11 56:15 47:21,23 50:14
40:9 refers 48:10 representation 7:7,7,11,14 8:8 robust 7:6,11
54:2 58:22 56:11,13 57:7 12:5,8,20,25 28:24 29:8
seen 38:3 55:24 sheds 50:5 15:2,3,11 23:9 stays 36:22
53:5 showing 52:7 25:13 26:2 Stevens 8:13,17
54:9 57:21 58:4 57:5,10 stool 22:8
54:10 56:21 silence 12:19 45:1,6 strictly 3:21
29:3,4 18:19,20 57:11 simple 20:12 51:13 structure 25:10
35:15 served 36:14 simply 4:19 24:7 specifically 12:2 subject 6:5,8
41:6 47:1 service 7:25 24:13 50:7,7 14:7,12 17:4 11:17 13:14
49:10 44:17 49:3,18 single 50:17 19:3 24:18 53:13,15
51:25 49:21 51:20 52:12 26:9 submitted 58:24
53:8 54:7 56:7 sir 34:2 specified 58:3 59:1
26:6 servicemember situation 26:12 square 29:11 12:10 13:3
32:22 48:7 49:1 28:12 35:2 31:25 substitute 28:6,9
49:1 51:2 set 40:20 46:20 43:18 47:25 squarely 47:15 successful 37:8
52:5 54:10,14,15 57:3 58:20 standpoint 8:11 37:10
58:9 56:9 situations 46:14 8:12 suffered 56:8
seven 34:15 six-year 34:7 started 17:10 suggested 32:3
29:23 Shah 1:15 2:3,8 slightly 37:24 state 12:15 suggestion 51:9
3:5,6,8 4:15,23 societal 36:15 35:25 50:7,8 53:6
32:15 5:18 6:10,25 soldier 20:2 stated 14:10,11 superior 27:20
41:1 7:22 8:15,18 22:13 statement 12:23 supply 3:16
56:5 8:23 9:4,8,13 Solicitor 1:15 14:20 support 32:1
22:25 13:6,18,23 somewhat 9:24 stating 4:21 50:7 20:13 38:5
56:23 15:1,4,12,22 sorry 31:12 51:2 statistics 41:11 supposedly
18:2,5,21 sort 12:21 14:18 statute 11:2 12:2 Supreme 1:1,12
49:20,22 20:7,15,22 sought 18:19 21:4,19,20 surprised 6:20
21:2,7,13,23 sound 24:14,15 24:5,10 26:3 survey 52:22
31:2 23:14 24:17 19:9,20 37:9 5:24
48:9 25:8,10,15 Souter 10:9,16 statutes 18:1 sworn 52:15
7:2,3,5,6 tenor 19:6 22:17 30:20 values 7:24 8:5
9:1,3 tent 14:24 32:19 35:5 U variation 52:16
termed 16:10 37:22 38:1,16 UCMJ 3:23,23 vast 40:11
14:9 terminal 4:13 38:20 39:7,17 4:1,4,10,12 7:1 view 6:1 8:14
terms 11:12 49:16 7:3,23 11:5,13 21:12 28:10
17:6 25:21 three 3:23 56:4 12:4,7,17 34:13 36:3
18:6
19:4 14:5 50:6 time 4:18 7:25 17:11,18,22 violated 5:5
25:4,11 testifying 11:19 8:19 9:1,19 18:4 25:25 violation 38:13
12:15 14:17 10:5,7,9,10,21 29:8 30:6,18 virtually 46:13
testimony 10:21 11:5,11 13:9 48:9 49:23 visibility 55:17
37:3 42:6 11:4,20,23 13:10,14 14:3 50:13 vobis 7:18
14:16 21:22 26:20 unable 6:22
15:1 51:9 30:7 44:8 unaware 6:21 W
47:18 52:15 53:6 47:16 52:20 unconstitutio... waiting 34:21
49:14 54:8 55:19,24 27:9,23 28:8 waived 40:17
51:12,14 text 5:2 tiny 41:20 52:15 undercut 12:9 want 8:8 22:8,16
53:14,16 textual 47:4,6 total 41:9 understand 16:1 22:18 23:18
57:10,22 Thank 26:21,22 Toth 23:6 54:22 17:10 41:8 44:12
58:23 54:22 understanding wants 42:3
12:14,22 things 16:11 15:7 18:11 unique 46:11 wasn't 5:17
53:18 40:18 46:4 United 1:1,3,12 14:20 17:3
53:6 6:25 7:17 tribunals 7:8 39:19 42:8 50:6,7
10:17 11:12 true 10:3 16:11 universe 14:6 water 45:20
12:1 15:12,22 18:25 try 55:3 46:14 32:4 33:3 34:5
35:11 19:10 22:7,20 trying 13:5 22:6 uptick 55:15,15 39:16,16 43:7
25:8,10 27:9 24:21 35:7 55:18,21 51:15,23
44:1 31:3,17 32:6,9 turned 9:14,17 usually 29:4 Wednesday 1:9
49:5 32:15 34:17 twice 9:11 U.S.C 52:21 went 9:11 10:22
51:10 36:12,24 37:5 two 4:12 10:14 We'll 3:3
53:7 55:8 37:21 38:8,12 16:14,15 29:10 V we're 6:17 27:25
49:2 50:5 53:9 type 57:3 39:19,19 46:22 52:2,3,3,8 55:8
11:08 58:25 67 4:5 57:4
7
16:20
34:14 25:17 27:13 24:24 26:13
32:24,25 1966 30:2 5:5,9,21 11:2
38:1 1983 11:13
50:3
41:15 8
41:9 8 6:6,7
49:20 1998 9:8
16:11,21 2 52:25 53:1
19:16 20 44:11,22
30:8
32:16 34:25
9:10 10:5
42:20 2009 1:9
55:20 2241 8:20 9:2
22:15
28:6
37:7
26 2:6 15:5
52:21
2:4 52:25 53:1
21:5 4 41:10
30:16,23
34:15,25 5
44:12,22 5,000 33:24
52 52:13
2:9
1:5 3:4 6
21:25
