IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
THE TRAVELERS INDEMNITY :
COMPANY, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 08-295
PEARLIE BAILEY, ET AL.; :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
and
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
COMMON LAW SETTLEMENT :
COUNSEL, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-307
PEARLIE BAILEY, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, March 30, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
BARRY R. OSTRAGER, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of
the Petitioners.
SAMUEL ISSACHAROFF, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf
of the Respondents Cascino Asbestos Claimants.
JACOB C. COHN, ESQ., Philadelphia, Pa, on behalf of the
Respondent Chubb Indemnity Insurance Company.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
BARRY R. OSTRAGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 4
SAMUEL ISSACHAROFF, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents Cascino
Asbestos Claimants 22
JACOB C. COHN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent
Chubb Indemnity Insurance Company 40
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
BARRY R. OSTRAGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 50
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 08-295, Travelers
Indemnity Company v. Bailey, and Common Law Settlement
Counsel v. Bailey.
Mr. Ostrager.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BARRY R. OSTRAGER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. OSTRAGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In 1988, the Second Circuit decided in two
separate decisions that a bankruptcy court exercising
its core jurisdiction had properly confirmed the plan of
reorganization that resolved present and future claims
against Johns-Manville and the insurers who funded
Manville's reorganization plan. Last year, despite its
decades-old rulings to the contrary, the Second Circuit
sustained a collateral attack on the confirmation order
and held that the bankruptcy court lacked subject matter
jurisdiction back in 1986 to enjoin direct actions
against Travelers, quote, "based upon, arising out of,
or related to," close quote --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Ostrager, you have
characterized the Second Circuit's decision in a way the
Second Circuit did not. The Second Circuit said: The
confirmation of the 1986 order stands, but that order
did not encompass what was added in 2004; that is, that
order dealt with the debtor, with Manville and the
insurer's obligation to cover Manville's liability. The
Second Circuit said: Now, this 2004 order, which
concerns independent actions against insurers for their
own wrong, was never encompassed in the order that they
affirmed. So I think it's quite unfair to say it's a
collateral attack on the 1986 order.
MR. OSTRAGER: Justice Ginsburg, the
bankruptcy court judge, interpreting his own order,
explicitly held that the 1986 order was intended and was
always intended to enjoin direct actions against
Travelers based upon, arising out of, or relating to the
insurance policies Manville purchased from Travelers.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: At the time of the 1986
order, had these independent actions started? I thought
at the time of the 1986 order the concerns were suits
involving Manville's liability and the insurers'
derivative obligation to cover.
MR. OSTRAGER: Justice Ginsburg, at the time
of the 1986 order there had been various forms of direct
action filed against Manville, and the bankruptcy court
concluded, and the Second Circuit recognized, that a
settlement with the insurers was essential for the
reorganization and rehabilitation of Manville --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The insurers, to the
extent of the insurance proceeds. That's what created
the pot that made the settlement fund. But what I'm
trying to get at is this extra piece, because the only
information we have is that Manville -- there was the
conversation that's reported in the Chubb brief. This
question came up, well, what about actions against the
insurers for their own wrongs? And the answer was, oh,
those aren't covered.
MR. OSTRAGER: The plan of reorganization as
ultimately confirmed contained the language to which I
directed the Court. It -- a plan of confirmation
included all aspects of the resolution of the Manville
estate. The confirmation order was all about ensuring
fairness to all claimants. It was all about expanding
the value of the estate, and it was all about
rehabilitating the debtor for the benefit of its
employees, suppliers, and local claimants.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, Mr. Ostrager, is --
help me out, because this is an issue of fact, and I
don't have the record in front of me now. But didn't
the 1986 order expressly include permission for certain
actions alleging insurer misconduct to proceed, those
that had already been filed?
MR. OSTRAGER: It did. It did, yes.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I drew the implication from
that that the -- that the bankruptcy court thought its
order would be barring such actions if they had not
already been filed. Am I right on the -- on the -- at
least on the record point?
MR. OSTRAGER: You are right on the record
point. However, Judge Lifland in the hearings that were
associated with his clarifying order was very explicit
that he use the words "based upon, arising out of, or
related to" for the express purpose of granting
Travelers the broadest relief that could be afforded to
Travelers post-confirmation. And --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But he was saying that --
in effect, that was simply articulating rather more than
he had done the first time around and what he intended
the first time around.
MR. OSTRAGER: Well, he certainly intended
to make the cornerstone of the Manville reorganization
work. And as the Second Circuit itself held, in a
subsequent collateral attack, the O'Malley case --
reported at 100 F.3d 944, a 1996 case where there was a
challenge to the bankruptcy court's reaffirmation and
continuation of the '86 order, Second Circuit held in
1996 that such an injunction is essential to the success
of the settlement, and its continuation was well within
the discretion of the trial court.
JUSTICE ALITO: Was the Second Circuit's
decision based on an interpretation of the confirmation
order or was it based on subject matter jurisdiction?
MR. OSTRAGER: The Second Circuit order was
explicitly predicated on the theory that the bankruptcy
court lacked subject matter jurisdiction back in 1986 to
enjoin these direct actions.
Now, we submit that the Second Circuit
clearly erred, because it conflated the entirely
distinct concept of the court's subject matter
jurisdiction and the propriety of the court's exercise
of subject matter jurisdiction. This was a distinction
that this Court expressly recognized 75 years ago in the
Continental Illinois v. Rock Island Railroad.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, there is a
distinction between jurisdiction and whether the action
taken by the bankruptcy court comes within the statute.
But at some point, at some point surely the two overlap.
I mean, suppose -- you know, you say simply because it
is a bankruptcy action it comes within the bankruptcy
clause and there is jurisdiction. But what if the
bankruptcy court in connection with the bankruptcy
decrees that a totally unrelated company has to pay a
certain amount of money and it's conceded that this
company has no relation to the bankruptcy, but the court
says, this is a national problem and this other company
ought to contribute.
MR. OSTRAGER: Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think that would be
within the bankruptcy power?
MR. OSTRAGER: Justice Scalia, clearly the
Congress in fashioning over the years expansive
safeguards facilitating growth and change in the
bankruptcy law as our nation's commerce has grown has
done that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They can do anything under
the bankruptcy law?
MR. OSTRAGER: No. Subject to appropriate
safeguards. Now, in order to confirm a plan of
reorganization a -- a debtor must meet all 16
requirements of section 1129.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay, that's fine. I'm not
arguing about that. I'm arguing about the principle
that you are asking us to accept, to wit, that this
challenge cannot possibly be based upon jurisdiction.
Surely there are some things that simply do not fall
within the bankruptcy power. Isn't that true?
MR. OSTRAGER: I would agree that that is
so.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. And that --
MR. OSTRAGER: This is not our case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what you are saying
is this does fall within the bankruptcy power. But
don't tell us that it is not a challenge based upon the
jurisdiction of the court and based exclusively upon the
statute. It could be based upon both.
MR. OSTRAGER: Justice Scalia, I would say
that the bankruptcy court in this case unquestionably
had jurisdiction over the Manville reorganization under
28 U.S.C. 1334(b) as the Manville reorganization was a
civil proceeding arising under Title 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Second Circuit's view
was that the bankruptcy court has no authority, no
subject matter jurisdiction, when the debtor -- debtor's
liability is not in question. The Second Circuit
thought, rightly or wrongly, that when the liability is
between two- the question is between two nondebtors,
Travelers on the one hand, the claimants on the other,
Manville is not in the picture. That's what the Second
Circuit said, it falls outside the domain of the
bankruptcy court, and that could be wrong or it could be
right. But in the Second Circuit's view the bankruptcy
court lacked authority to deal with the nondebtors'
liability to the claimants.
MR. OSTRAGER: There were, Justice Ginsburg,
60 pages of findings of fact indicating that the direct
action suits against Manville was an end run around the
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The direct actions
against Travelers.
MR. OSTRAGER: Against Travelers, were an
end run around the discharge of Manville, and that all
of the claims against Travelers arose out of and flowed
to the insurance relationship.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Ostrager, may I ask
this question. I -- I was unable to find the complaints
in the voluminous filings here. Do any of the
plaintiffs' cases seek recovery from assets of the
estate that would reduce the payments to creditors of
Manville?
MR. OSTRAGER: Well, the reason that this is
so critical is that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you answer my
question?
MR. OSTRAGER: They do not seek assets of
the estate, although Travelers would potentially have
contribution claims against Manville because all of the
claims --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But why does the
bankruptcy court have jurisdiction to enjoin third party
actions against some creditor of the estate?
MR. OSTRAGER: The Respondents actually
concede that bankruptcy courts have subject matter
jurisdiction to enjoin actions against non-debtors in
appropriate circumstances. That's the Chubb brief at
pages 22 and 40.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But if those actions won't
affect the estate at all, I just don't understand sort
of the basic theory, and I don't really understand the
theory of the plaintiffs' cases, either. I don't
understand -- I can't figure out what anybody expects to
collect from Travelers for what they did. The fact that
they defended cases certainly was proper for them as an
insurance company. This is mysterious case to me.
MR. OSTRAGER: Justice Stevens , you are
absolutely right that these direct action cases have
never been sustained because they all relate to the
discharge by Travelers of Travelers' obligations as
Manville's insurer, and that's one of the reasons why
the bankruptcy court judge issued the injunction.
Now, the Second --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: These were cases in the
State courts and, as I understand it, so far none of
them have succeeded.
MR. OSTRAGER: That is correct.
The Second Circuit also completely ignored
the enactment by Congress of sections 524(g) and (h) of
the Bankruptcy Code, which are modelled on the Manville
reorganization, and expressly grandfather the Manville
injunction as a final order that could not be revoked.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How could you say they
ignored it when they had several pages devoted to 524,
and they said it was -- it didn't cover these so-called
direct actions, which really aren't what we generally
call direct actions. But the Second Circuit did address
what Congress did to codify essentially the Manville
device.
MR. OSTRAGER: I would respectfully
disagree. 524(g) specifically says that asbestos --
asbestos channeling injunction "shall be valid and
enforceable and may not be revoked or modified by any
court except through direct appeal." And 524(h)(i)
specifically says that the pre-1994 asbestos channeling
injunctions shall be considered to meet all of the
requirements of 524(g)(2), which is in our appendix at
page 471, which means that they automatically meet
524(g)(3)(A)(i) and may not be revoked or modified
except through appeal.
JUSTICE STEVENS: How do -- how do these
pending actions have any impact on fulfilling the
objections -- objectives of the channeling instruction
or affect the disposition of the assets in the estate?
I just don't understand it.
MR. OSTRAGER: The essential issue here,
Justice Stevens, is that there would have been no
Manville reorganization --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but there has been
one and it's been a success.
MR. OSTRAGER: It's been a remarkable
success. Asbestos claimants have received -- 660,000
asbestos claimants have received --
JUSTICE STEVENS: None of whom would be
affected --
MR. OSTRAGER: -- more than $2.8 billion.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But none of whom would be
affected if these suits go forward, as I understand it.
I'm missing something very important, I think.
MR. OSTRAGER: The point is that there
couldn't have been have a Manville reorganization
without the insurance settlements. The Second Circuit
recognized that. The Second Circuit further recognized
that these direct actions violate the express terms of
the injunction that Judge Lifland, the bankruptcy judge,
granted in this case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why isn't it harmless
error?
MR. OSTRAGER: The 524(g)(4)(A)(2)(iii)
specifically authorizes asbestos channeling injunctions
that bar any claim against the third party to be
directly or indirectly liable for claims against the
debtor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if part of the
settlement -- I mean, Travelers says, we need to get
more out of this before we're going to put in all the
policy funds; the bankruptcy judge says, well, you are
going to be immune from any traffic accident liability;
and there is a traffic accident and Travelers said:
Well, the bankruptcy court said I don't have to pay. Is
that all right? It's within the jurisdiction as you
read it because it involves Travelers it's related to
the funds they submitted into the trust account. Is
that --
MR. OSTRAGER: Mr. Chief justice, that would
not be covered and that is certainly not what the
bankruptcy court intended or said.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I know they that
didn't intend anything with respect to traffic
accidents. But my question is how far does your theory
reach?
MR. OSTRAGER: This Court has recognized in
the Katz case that bankruptcy extends beyond the res.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So there would be
jurisdiction in the hypothetical that I posed?
MR. OSTRAGER: Not in the hypothetical you
posed. On direct appeal that would clearly be excluded
because it wouldn't meet --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right, on direct
appeal. Are you suggesting it would be barred -- that
Travelers would have protection under a collateral
attack?
MR. OSTRAGER: I don't think we need to
reach that issue in this case. There is no question
that in connection with exercising its subject matter
jurisdiction over the Manville reorganization the
bankruptcy court had the power under section 105 of the
Bankruptcy Code to issue any order, process or judgment
necessary or appropriate to carry out the provisions of
Title 11.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but it seems to me
you --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you acknowledge that
that's not true. You acknowledge that they couldn't
have issued the hypothetical order that the Chief
Justice proposed, even if that was necessary, even if
Travelers said, we will not kick in the money up to the
limits of our liability unless you make us immune from
all traffic accidents. You acknowledged that that's no
good, right?
MR. OSTRAGER: In this order the -- the
limitation on the injunction was based upon arising out
of or related to. I would submit that the traffic
accident falls outside the scope of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is that? It --
it involves one -- it involves the insurance company,
its coverage of Johns-Manville. And the Travelers is
saying: Look, we are not going to do it unless you give
us this -- this broader immunity, and the bankruptcy
judge does it. I don't know why it would be outside the
jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court. It is clearly
related to allowing the settlement to go forward.
MR. OSTRAGER: Well, I -- I think we have an
act of Congress, 524(g) and (h), which --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I interrupt you
there? Because you told me that the Second Circuit
ignored 524(g), and I'm looking at page 33a of the
petition for cert and the Second Circuit addresses
524(g), and its discussion continues for a couple pages.
I don't see how that's ignoring the issue.
MR. OSTRAGER: With -- with respect, I
believe that there are express findings of fact that the
bankruptcy court made which were adopted by the district
court, which were embraced in full by the Second
Circuit, and we have a -- a pure issue of law here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And may I -- may I have
an answer to my question about the Second Circuit
ignoring 524(g) when they devoted two and a half pages
to it?
MR. OSTRAGER: I believe that they clearly
misinterpreted the intent of 524(g) and (h). They
clearly misperceived the fact that Congress had
expressly grandfathered the Manville injunction in
524(g).
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Another mystery in this
most mysterious case: If it was so clear that the
original order, the 1986 order, insured Travelers that
it would have no liability for asbestos claims, period,
then why did it put up $400 million, much more than it
had put up originally, in order to settle with people
who were bringing precisely that kind of claim?
MR. OSTRAGER: During the course of the five
years of proceedings before the bankruptcy court, the
case was referred to mediation before the Honorable
Mario Cuomo. And in connection with that mediation
there was a business decision made to secure releases
much broader than the injunction that was contained.
Travelers would in connection with the mediation process
participate in a settlement.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was the difference
between the release that you say flowed from the 1986
order and the releases that were obtained with the
$400 million?
MR. OSTRAGER: One was a general -- one was
a general release and the other was a release based
upon, arising out of, or related to the Manville
insurance policies that Travelers purchased --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, specifically what was
not included in the 1986 release that was included as a
result of the settlement negotiations?
MR. OSTRAGER: It -- an absolute, broad
general release by 80,000 people. Now, I want to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I would like to know
the difference. What would -- what would Travelers be
liable for under the 1986 order as you read it, that
they got freedom from as a result of this settlement?
MR. OSTRAGER: Potentially -- potentially
the traffic accident that Mr. Chief Justice referenced.
I want to reserve --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So then -- so that the
2000 clarification order did exonerate them from traffic
accidents?
MR. OSTRAGER: It's a general release.
I -- I want to conclude and reserve the
balance of my time by noting that "Redefining the scope
of a long-final confirmation order unravels intricate
transactions so as to knock the props out from under the
authorization for every transaction that has taken
place." That's a quote from the Second Circuit's
decision in Chateaugay Corp., 10 F.3d 944. And that
creates an unmanageable, uncontrollable situation for
courts and litigants alike.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I have one question
before you reserve the rest of your time. That is, you
said this is -- this is a sweeping release that
Travelers got in settlement for the claims of many
parties. But some people were not there and those are
the people who still want to bring their claims.
MR. OSTRAGER: I would say that the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I haven't asked my
question.
MR. OSTRAGER: Oh, I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I would like to know what
-- what notice did the people who were left out of the
settlement, who were not part of the settlement, who
say, so we want our day in court -- what notice did they
have and what opportunity to be heard?
MR. OSTRAGER: There was broad notice to the
people who would be affected by the issuance of the
injunction. This Court has recognized --
JUSTICE SOUTER: How did they get the
notice? You say it's broad notice. What exactly was
done?
MR. OSTRAGER: There were newspaper blasts
repeatedly, all sorts of public notice, radio
announcements. But we are dealing with a special
remedial scheme that expressly forecloses successive
litigation by non-litigants and in the bankruptcy
context --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How can it be successive
when they didn't even get their -- I mean they -- these
people haven't had a day in court. They may have a
claim that's no good. All State courts so far have said
their claim is no good. But they have a right --
MR. OSTRAGER: This is what Congress has
made provision for in 524(g) and (h). This is what I
believe the Court contemplated in Ortiz at page 846,
also in Martin v. Wilks, also in Taylor v. Stargell.
And I think this rule was foreshadowed as long ago as
Mullaney v. Central Hanover Trust Company.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The rule -- the
particular rule that I am asking you about is that
people who have not had their day in court can be
precluded --
MR. OSTRAGER: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- on the basis of
newspaper notice and radio announcements?
MR. OSTRAGER: As the court said in
Mullaney, beneficiaries whose interests are either
conjectural or future, although they could be --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was the best
possible notice, which included regular mail notice.
MR. OSTRAGER: Not -- not with respect to
future claimants who haven't had any disease. There has
to be finality. That's what 524(g) and (h) says. A
confirmation order has to be final. As the Court said
in Stohl, there has to be a beginning of litigation and
a place to end litigation.
I would like to reserve, if I may, with
respect, the balance of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Issacharoff.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SAMUEL ISSACHAROFF
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
CASCINO ASBESTOS CLAIMANTS
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
As the Court has indicated, this is a
question of jurisdiction, and the issue is whether a
bankruptcy court may enter an order that goes to a
nondebtor, offers a release against independent State
law claims.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, as to the 1986 order
it seemed to me that the counsel for the Petitioner
might have answered the question posed by the Chief
Justice with the traffic accident hypothetical: That is
an interesting question of subject matter jurisdiction,
and maybe there is subject matter jurisdiction, maybe
there isn't, but that issue as to the 1986 order is
final. Now, that brings us to the -- the later order,
2004, 2006. And then the question is whether or not
that's just a reiteration of the earlier order or a
further expansion of jurisdiction that could be reached.
Why couldn't the counsel for Petitioner have
given that answer?
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Well, the counsel for
Petitioner can't give that answer for two separate
reasons. The first has to do with the subject matter
jurisdiction limitation of a bankruptcy court: That as
soon as the release is outside the debtor's estate and
impact on the debtor's estate or the debtor/creditor
relationship, that places it beyond the power of the
bankruptcy court.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But, putting aside
questions of notice, if these parties had been
represented in the appeal of the 1986 order, maybe the
subject matter jurisdiction ruling was correct; maybe it
was incorrect; but it's done.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: If -- if these parties had
been present, if they had been appealed, if this had
been in effect a settlement orchestrated through the
bankruptcy court, then there might be the -- the ability
to liquidate the class action.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So then it's just a
question of personal jurisdiction and notice. It is not
a question of subject matter jurisdiction, because
subject matter jurisdiction can be concluded in an
earlier order and there can be no collateral attack if
you've been a party.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Justice Kennedy, it is a
question of subject matter jurisdiction if it is not to
be a consensual agreement. If there is not to be -- the
purpose of notice is to give you the opportunity to opt
out and to object --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't think there's a
notice question. I thought there were 5,538 plaintiffs
here and -- that you represent, and every one of them
has already gotten money from the trust except for two
who have filed claims against it. So I imagine if
that's so, they certainly know about it.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: They do know about it.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, so there is no notice
problem. If there were a notice problem I guess there
would be a due process problem. So, I don't see what
notice has any more to do with this than the NCAA
tournament.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Justice Breyer, I
misunderstood Justice's Kennedy's question to be about
1986, not about the present. And in 1980 -- in the
original confirmation, these people had not filed suit,
had not made claims at the time.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, in the original
confirmation there are problems in asbestos cases, like
other bankruptcy cases, of giving people notice.
Bankrupt people often give notice to many who aren't
there. And I don't know that -- maybe there is a
constitutional problem with some of them, but I would
have thought jurisdiction under the statute is clear.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Well, the question is --
JUSTICE BREYER: What is -- is this about
notice?
MR. ISSACHAROFF: No, I don't believe it is
about notice.
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't think so. I
thought this was about the case of the meaning of the
words in the statute that they have authority in the
bankruptcy court to issue any order, process or judgment
that is necessary or appropriate to carry out the
provisions of the title. And we've said that the test
is whether the outcome of the proceeding -- this is the
other State proceeding -- could conceivably have any
effect on the estate being administered in bankruptcy.
So, as I understood it, that's the test.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: I agree.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what -- that's what
this Court said. Now, they may be few and far between,
an order like this, but where there are special reasons
for it -- suppose it's a pension fund and you want to
reorganize the company and this is the employees' --
they're -- the employees' pension fund's worried about
claims which are related directly. Or suppose it's an
officer, or suppose it's a worker, and to reorganize the
company you must cut the claims off. And otherwise, it
is down the drain for everyone, no more money in the
fund, no more jobs for the employees.
Now, what is it here that would say there is
no special circumstance such that a bankruptcy judge can
ever do it, no matter what?
MR. ISSACHAROFF: In -- in your example,
Justice Breyer, you rely upon this Court's decision in
Celotex, which adopted the Pacor test from the Third
Circuit. And in each case that has applied that, the
question is whether there is a potential impact upon the
estate of the bankrupt. The critical issue in this case
is that not a single one of the claims that is presented
ir seeks to be enjoined here has any potential impact on
the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is what you are saying also
true of the various other asbestos cases that have, I
think, done this?
MR. ISSACHAROFF: There is no asbestos case
that I am aware of that has released third party claims
that have no impact on the debtor. I am not aware of a
single one.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, of course, this has
enormous practical impact on the debtor. If not him --
not this one, because it's already a done deal -- you
will never get insurance companies --
MR. ISSACHAROFF: No, I don't --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- to go into this kind of
thing if they are going to be sued for the very act of
helping the debtor defend the asbestos cases. And so, I
can't imagine an insurance company in its right mind
going into that when in fact all these suits are still
open. That presumably is why the bankruptcy judge cut
it off.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: I think that the facts of
record indicate that Travelers went into this particular
deal full well knowing that it was not getting this kind
of release because that kind of release was not
available. And I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What do you -- what do you
make of the provision of the 1986 order to the effect
that, as I understand it and as I asked your brother a
moment ago, existing claims based upon misbehavior of
the -- of the insurance company were not cut off? The
reasonable implication, I think, of that is that any
future claims based upon insurance company misconduct
would be cut off by the terms of the '86 order.
What -- what do you say about that
implication?
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Justice Souter, I would
say two things. First of all, that the record speaks to
specific negotiations between Travelers and Manville and
between all the insurers and Manville on prospective
liabilities of the -- of the insurance companies, so
that the bankruptcy court can be read to be just
cleaning up what had happened retrospectively up until
that point.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but it was prospective
liability based upon misconduct of the insurance
company, not merely derivative of -- of its insurance
contract in -- in the conventional sense.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: I -- I understand that.
But it's also important -- I think that there was a
question raised by Justice Alito a minute ago about what
exactly had happened in 1986 and whether the Second
Circuit was making findings of fact or findings of law.
In 1988, in the MacArthur case, the Second
Circuit relied on section 1334(d) as the jurisdictional
basis for upholding the district -- the bankruptcy
order. Section 1334(d), which is now recodified as
1334(e), has to do only with the disposition of the
assets of the estate, the property of the estate.
And so, the Second Circuit order in 19 -- in
1988, which is the controlling legal authority on what
the scope of the release was, went only to the property
of the estate. And so, I don't think that there was any
understanding at the time by anyone that there was a
release of claims that were independent of the property
of the estate or made -- or had no hold upon or
potential impact upon the property of the estate.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why does it say -- it
doesn't say that. What it says in the release is it
says: We are releasing or everybody is enjoined from
bringing a suit for policy claims against Travelers, and
a policy claim is any and all claims based upon, arising
out of, or relating to any insurance policy.
And then the bankruptcy judge, in thousands
of findings, I guess, said that your lawsuits do relate
to the relevant insurance policies. Indeed, the claims
are based upon the joint -- the obligation of Travelers
to defend those very policies, given the obligation to
defend Johns-Manville.
So the relation is exceedingly close, and
the language covers it, and there are thousands of pages
of findings, I guess, that show that.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Well, Your Honor, some of
the releases that are in effect in this case go to
conduct that occurred after 1986. Some of them have to
do with claims. For example, the Wise claim which is
referred to in the Second Circuit's opinion has to do
with claims that have nothing to do with the coverage of
Manville. They have to do with actions taken with
regard to other insurers. This is an exceedingly --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Settlement clauses often
release future claims; standard stuff in a release
clause.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Absolutely, Your Honor.
Contract clauses do it and class actions do it,
consensual agreements, when there is notice, the
opportunity to opt out, and there is volition; they
often release much broader. But a bankruptcy court is
an extraordinary proceeding. A bankruptcy court is an
obligation that rights are terminated without any
consensual --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that is subject matter
jurisdiction and that is foreclosed. Now, if you are
talking about personal jurisdiction that may be
something else.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: No, I'm not talking --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're talking about
subject matter jurisdiction and that has been foreclosed
by the earlier Circuit Court of Appeals' opinion. And
the court of appeals' opinion that we are reviewing now
seems to conflate that issue.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: I don't believe so, Your
Honor. I think that in the 1988 opinion in the
MacArthur case, the Second Circuit was quite clear that
all that was being released was claims against insurance
proceeds that had been delivered and had become property
of the estate, whose depletion could affect the estate.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. If that is -- if
that is the case -- let's assume that that is -- that it
was that narrow. The fact remains, however, that at
this point, as Justice Kennedy has suggested several
times, my understanding is at least that you cannot
collaterally attack the jurisdiction of the court who
entered the order it did. And the only claim that you
can make now is that the order by its terms did not
cover your cases.
Do you agree?
MR. ISSACHAROFF: I agree that that is the
general rule, that is correct. I agree further that the
Second Circuit expressly held at page 31a that the error
of the bankruptcy court was that it subsequently
interpreted the order more broadly than the Second
Circuit had affirmed in 1988. I think that that's the
heart of the case, because --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So it's a question of the
scope of the order?
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Yes, it is.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Yes, it is. There is a
question which this Court has actually not addressed,
which is about the prospective application of an order
that is entered without subject matter jurisdiction. I
don't think there is any case squarely on point.
Certainly there are cases that allow
prospective collateral challenges to an order entered
without personal jurisdiction. I don't think the Court
has addressed the subject matter jurisdiction, but it
doesn't have to --
JUSTICE ALITO: But didn't this --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I didn't mean to cut you
off. I'm sorry.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: I don't think the Court
has to address this here, Your Honor, because in this
case, the initial order only went -- as affirmed by the
Second Circuit, only went to the property of the estate.
And second --
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I then raise a question
there? I mean, I think there is a legitimate question
about that, given the -- given the rather general terms
of the -- of the scope of the order. And I would like
your response to this. It seems to me as a background
consideration that we should have in mind in
interpreting how broad that order was. It's been raised
a couple times; Justice Breyer raised it a moment ago.
And it's this: It is one argument to say that the
bankruptcy court does not have jurisdiction, and
derivatively an order that it issued should not be
interpreted to cover, any claim that does not affect or
cannot deplete the bankruptcy estate taken as a given
fact at the time this later case is brought.
Another view of jurisdiction would be that
the bankruptcy court has jurisdiction and hence an order
might be interpreted to cover any cases which, if
contemplated, would have precluded the settlement that
created the bankruptcy estate. If Travelers had thought
that it was going to be liable for these cases of
insurer misconduct, it might very well have said: We're
not forking over X hundred millions of dollars, leaving
this exposure open. So that the bankruptcy estate would
never have attained the size that it attained if the --
if the insurer and everybody else had not understood
that these later claims would be -- were being cut off.
Is that argument a relevant -- number one,
is that a legitimate jurisdictional argument? And
number two, is it a relevant argument that we should
bear in mind -- in trying to figure out how broad the
'86 order really was?
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Your Honor, you gave two
alternative definitions of jurisdiction. The first one
we have no problem with. Obviously that's our
argument --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Everybody accepts at that
much.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Right. The second one, I
think that this Court has to go back to the Syngenta
case, which I think is quite instructive on this point.
In Syngenta there was a settlement in a Federal court
action. There is no question that the parties settled,
that the monies were paid, everything was done pursuant
to that settlement. Then one of the parties goes into
State court and files a claim that was clearly subsumed
within the settlement.
The district court tried to issue an order,
saying: I have to have power over this, because
otherwise there could never have been a settlement. And
this Court unanimously reversed on the grounds that that
had to be brought through the State court system,
because you could not get jurisdiction simply because of
the expediency, the necessity, any of these terms do not
afford an affirmative grant of jurisdiction to the
Court. So I think --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you answer the
question practically, the insurers would not have
settled, there would have been no 1986 order, if they
didn't have this broader liability? They say without
global protections they never would have contributed to
the trust fund. And I would like you to answer that
question.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: We don't know that, Your
Honor. We know that the record indicates that they did
not believe in 1985, when they signed a letter among all
the counsel that was submitted to the court, that they
were getting any such release. So there's nothing in
the record that indicates that they would not have gone
into this deal, and in fact, there have been many, many
asbestos workouts since that time, none of which have
releases that do not affect the debtor's estate.
So I don't know that the factual premise is
there. But let's assume that it was, for the purposes
of the question. Let's assume that no insurance company
would go -- go into this, unless they get releases that
go far beyond normal jurisdiction of a bankruptcy court.
I think that under Syngenta that has to be given to them
by Congress. Congress in 1334 gave specific forms of
jurisdiction. It gave the "arising under" and "arising
in" which pertained to the activities of the bankrupt,
of the debtor; and it gave "related to" and "related
to," as this Court interpreted in Celotex, adopting the
Third Circuit standard, "related to" means that it has
an impact upon the estate of the debtor.
JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that what the Congress
gave them in the 1994 Bankruptcy Act?
MR. ISSACHAROFF: No. The Bankruptcy Act
actually has very interesting language on point. The
Bankruptcy Act says, in 524(g)(4)(ii), says that the
relief is for demands on the debtor, that flow from
demands on the debtor, and by reason of the demands on
the debtor. That is the trigger language before we get
to Roman numeral (iii), which has to do with insurance.
So if one actually looks at the statute, the
form of the statute is that there is releases to the
extent that there is a claim of derivative liability.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you dispute the
proposition that that statute was passed in large part
for the purpose of codifying what was done in this case?
MR. ISSACHAROFF: I do not --
JUSTICE ALITO: The sort of thing that was
done in this case?
MR. ISSACHAROFF: I do not dispute that at
all. But what was done in this case was not simply what
Judge Lifland did, but what Judge Lifland did as
affirmed by the Second Circuit. The bankruptcy court
does not have stand-alone powers to make determinations
as pertain to, particularly, common law actions. That
goes back to the Marathon Pipeline issue that this Court
had to -- had to address and that Congress sought to fix
by maintaining a tight hold on the "relating to"
jurisdiction of the Court and making sure that that's
reviewable by the district court and by the court of
appeals. So the -- yes, Congress codified the -- the
Manville deal in -- in 1994, but they did so as it was
interpreted by the controlling courts.
JUSTICE BREYER: In your view, if Smith has
a 2 or $4 billion claim against company X and the
pension fund together, company X is in bankruptcy, and
so the judge says: "I want to enjoin this claim, we
will settle it," you know, but the pension fund --
doesn't -- doesn't the bankruptcy judge -- if in fact
without the pension fund you couldn't reorganize,
wouldn't the bankruptcy judge have authority to cut off
the claim against the pension fund?
It's a question of whether the company goes
down the drain or whether it doesn't. And --
MR. ISSACHAROFF: The rule --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- the pension fund is all
mixed up in this together.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: The rule of thumb, Justice
Breyer, is that if there is an automatic indemnity
against the -- the --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, there is nothing here
in indemnity.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Then our position is that
it does not have authority.
JUSTICE BREYER: And that would be true of
all the workforce and they have claims against the
individual members of the workforce? They have -- it
seems to me it would be an unusual case, I agree with
you on that, but to say never -- to say never is what is
bothering me.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Well, I think that it
comes down to two questions, Justice Breyer. One is
whether the constitutional authority under Article I
reaches beyond --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why not -- because
there is a good constitutional protection; it's called
the due process clause. If the bankruptcy judge goes
too far, it's a due process violation.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: No, I don't -- I -- I
disagree with that, Justice Breyer. I think that the
bankruptcy court has to point to statutory authority.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there's language,
broad language.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Broad language.
JUSTICE BREYER: Broad language.
MR. ISSACHAROFF: Yes, in the statute, yes.
Yes, there is broad language in the statute. The
"relating to" language is quite broad. But the
"relating to" language has been interpreted, and every
court that has looked at it, this Court and -- this
Court and every court of appeals, without any dissent in
any court of appeals that has looked at this issue --
has decided that "relating to" means an impact on the
estate. Without that, the bankruptcy power has no
tethers.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Cohn.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JACOB C. COHN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
CHUBB INDEMNITY INSURANCE COMPANY
MR. COHN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
A discharge in bankruptcy wipes away a
debtor's liability for its prepetition conduct. Yet
Travelers' interpretation of the 1986 orders gives
Travelers broader protection than even Manville could
obtain because it gives Travelers immunity for its
knowledge. Bankruptcy discharges do not erase a
debtor's knowledge.
If Manville started making asbestos products
again after its discharge, it would not be immune for
claims that it acted with the knowledge that asbestos is
dangerous. Yet, that is precisely the protection that
Travelers argues that it is entitled to here.
And to take, for example, the Wise
complaint -- which The Travelers, Petitioners, put forth
as a typical claim here -- and you look at the class
they purport to represent, they purport to represent a
class of disappointed claimants against three companies,
Combustion Engineering, AC&S, and A&I, none of which are
Manville. They claim that they are not seeking even to
recover for asbestos bodily injury claims. Instead,
they claim that they settled their claims too cheaply
with Combustion Engineering because, for example, in the
1990s allegedly, decades, 15 years after the
confirmation and discharge of Manville, Travelers in
defending Combustion Engineering, with the knowledge
that asbestos is dangerous or whatever from working with
Manville, provided false interrogatory responses on
behalf of Combustion Engineering. That is how far
afield the proffered interpretation of the 1986 order
goes.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it not the case that most
of the claims are claims based on -- based on Manville?
MR. COHN: Are they claims --
JUSTICE ALITO: Relating to what Travelers
did in relation to Manville, rather than other
companies.
MR. COHN: I don't think it's related to
what they did. I think the distinction here is relating
to what they know. The point is --
JUSTICE ALITO: You're -- you're making the
argument that some of these claims concern things that
Travelers did in relation to the defense of other
asbestos manufacturers. Now, maybe that means that the
-- the bankruptcy court interpreted the order too
broadly or -- in that respect. But what does that have
to do with the main issue here?
MR. COHN: If an asbestos claimant, an
independent action plaintiff, is seeking to recover from
Travelers for Manville-derived liability, it's barred.
That was the purpose of the remand by the Second Circuit
having provided the appropriate measuring stick to the
bankruptcy court to go look at these complaints and
figure out whether or not in fact somebody's trying to
take money out of Travelers' pocket for Manville's
liabilities.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't it the case, to
make sure I understand it, the Wise complaints are the
-- are the exception. They are the only complaints, as
I understand it in this current round of litigation,
that claims that the actual harm to them resulted from
actions other than actions of Manville. Is that
correct?
MR. COHN: The statutory -- not exactly.
The statutory direct actions, which account for 400
million of the half billion dollars they'd like to pay
to these alleged contemnors, all have to do with claims-
handling practices of Travelers with respect to other
insureds besides Manville.
The Common Law independent actions allege
that the insurance industry as a whole learned of the
dangers of asbestos. It has a free-standing duty to the
world to warn the world of the dangers of asbestos.
Chubb Indemnity Insurance Company was not a Manville
insurer, yet Chubb is alleged to have been in cahoots
with the rest of the industry in failing to warn the
world, and, therefore, they along with the rest of the
insurance industry face unlimited liability unrelated to
insurance policies for this --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, I understand -- or
maybe I don't -- maybe I don't understand the -- every
step in the liability claim. My only question was,
among the plaintiffs, is it correct that the only
plaintiffs who claim they were hurt physically by
asbestos as a result of the actions of somebody, the
only ones who are claiming that the somebody was other
than Manville are the Wise plaintiffs. Is that correct?
MR. COHN: I think not.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No?
MR. COHN: I think that every asbestos
claimant by and large has a claim against Manville, but
that doesn't mean they are not --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Simply because of
Manville's position in the --
MR. COHN: The ubiquity of Manville asbestos
and their activities makes practically everybody, if not
everybody, a Manville claimant, at least --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So -- so that you are
saying in effect everybody ultimately is claiming
against Manville, the Wise plaintiffs and every other
set of plaintiffs in this -- in this group of direct
liability claimants, right?
MR. COHN: Well, is or can. But that
doesn't mean that they are attempting to assert
liability against an insurance company because of
Manville's own conduct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I -- I understand your
cause of action. Okay. I don't want to --
MR. COHN: So, getting back to the next
point I would like to make is, as Mr. Issacharoff has
stated, the Second Circuit was presented and the
bankruptcy court was presented in 1986 with a plan and
with an order that was stated to be premised upon the
derivative liability of Travelers for Manville.
JUSTICE BREYER: Who stated it? Who stated
that? I mean, when I -- I read what the judge said at
the time. I've read language of the order, and I
haven't found there anything that said that. What it
talked about was policies that were seriously
intertwined with the liability of Manville.
MR. COHN: Well, the insurance settlement
order, which is what is at issue here -- which is not
the channeling injunction order, by the way; it was
entered before that -- was premised upon the policies
being property of the estate. That was --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is this the confirmation
order?
MR. COHN: The confirmation order is
actually not directly at issue.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's different. Okay.
So the confirmation order --
MR. COHN: The confirmation order is
purposely --
JUSTICE BREYER: But there's another piece
of paper called "the insurance settlement order," which
says that the confirmation order and all these other
definitions and the injunction just refer to derivative
liability?
MR. COHN: The --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes or no?
MR. COHN: -- definition of -- yes --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes?
MR. COHN: No. The definition of --
JUSTICE BREYER: No? Okay. All right.
MR. COHN: -- of "policy claims" is
contained in the --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then I don't see what
has to do with it.
MR. COHN: Well, the definition of "policy
claims" is contained in the settlement order, which is
December 18, 1986. It was a free-standing order that
was entered --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. That's a
different definition than the definition of "policy
claims" in the injunction, presumably.
MR. COHN: There are two injunctions, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. I have a
confirmation order, an injunction. It defines "policy
claims" in both as a lawsuit relating to any or all of
the insurance policies.
MR. COHN: That is the injunction in the
insurance injunction.
JUSTICE BREYER: And your other piece of
paper says what?
MR. COHN: The other piece of paper is even
clearer. That's why they don't rely on it. It says,
you may not seek to recover asbestos health obligations,
which are the future Manville-derived asbestos claims
from Travelers, from a settling insurance company. They
don't even try to argue that the channeling injunction
gets them there. They're arguing that the insurance
policy buy-back order, if you want to call it that, the
insurance settlement order pursuant to which they
retired their insurance obligations was -- the
definition of "policy claims" was --
JUSTICE BREYER: You go on. Don't worry.
I'll look it up.
MR. COHN: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why doesn't the Due
Process Clause fully protect you? If the bankruptcy
court made a mistake and purported to exercise
jurisdiction over your claims, then I suppose you have,
in particular cases if you can establish it, a due
process claim that fully protects you.
MR. COHN: Chubb, Mr. Chief justice, in fact
has an alternative argument that was never reached that,
as a non-Manville insurer, it was in a position of an
unrepresented future claimant, and in fact it cannot be
constitutionally bound by res judicata to the 1986
order.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I saw in the -- I
guess it was in the Travelers' reply brief, the
suggestion that there was a future -- somebody
representing future claimants.
MR. COHN: Future tort claimants, not future
insurance defendants.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is that?
MR. COHN: Cause of action claimants.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is that
limitation spelled out?
MR. COHN: Well, if you look at the order
that -- that appoints the future claims representative,
it is to represent the interests of people who have been
exposed to Manville asbestos but have not yet been --
manifested harm because of the long latency period of
asbestos injuries.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that a
description of the clients at issue here? They've been
-- they've all been exposed to asbestos?
MR. COHN: It's not a description of Chubb,
Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know, but I'm
asking about the claimants.
MR. COHN: The claimants presumably were
people that were -- the individual independent action
plaintiffs presumably were represented by the future
claimants' representative in 1986 and were at that time
future claimants or else their -- you know, their harm
would have arisen well before and they wouldn't be in
these cases in this decade.
If there are no further questions, Your
Honor --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, in the -- at the
time of 1986, there were many claims against Manville,
of course, for Manville's liability. These later suits
in State court about the insurance company's independent
obligation -- I asked this to counsel on the other side
-- to what extent was there such litigation in 1986?
MR. COHN: May I respond?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.
MR. COHN: There were no independent actions
of the flavor that you are seeing here. I am not aware
of any claim like that. There were claims by other
Manville coinsureds. There were claims by Manville, and
there may have been some direct actions. I'm just
simply not familiar -- we didn't come into this case
until 2004, when our rights were impugned. So I don't
know the answer to whether or not there was anything
just like this, but I doubt it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Five minutes, Mr. Ostrager.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BARRY R. OSTRAGER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. OSTRAGER: Thank you. I have five quick
points I want to make.
First, the Second Circuit upheld the core
factual findings that, quote, "the instant claims
against Travelers arise out of its provision of
insurance coverage to Manville," close quote. That's
from the Second Circuit opinion. It's in the appendix
at page 33.
Second, there is no use of the word
"derivative" in either the confirmation order, the
settlement order, or 524(g). 524(g), about which we
haven't spoken enough, clearly and unmistakably reflects
Congress's intent to allow channeling injunctions that
bar claims against a debtor and those, like insurers,
who are directly or indirectly liable for claims against
the debtor. That is 524(g)(4)(A)(ii) and Roman (iii).
524(g) expressly provides an asbestos channeling
injunction shall be valid and enforceable and may not be
revoked or modified by any court except for an appeal.
We cite in our reply brief the fact that a
Senate report accompanying an earlier version of the
bill clarified that 524(g) is -- quote, "is not meant to
give the bankruptcy courts authority which they do not
already possess and simply codifies the court's ability
to issue supplemental permanent injunctions which are
irrevocable except on appeal."
There is a final judgment in this case
confirming the plan of reorganization. The Second
Circuit issued that -- confirmed that judgment twice,
once in the MacArthur case and once in the Cane case.
And then in the O'Malley case, which is a 1996 case, the
Second Circuit rejected a collateral attack on the
confirmation order on two grounds.
First, they found that the performance of
the futures representative that Judge Lifland had
appointed and which was incorporated in 524(g) and
modelled on the Manville reorganization proceeding --
the Second Circuit found that the legal representative,
quote, "took an active and aggressive role in protecting
future claimants in this litigation."
And, secondly, the Second Circuit rejected
the challenge to the continuation of the 1986 order
enjoining the suits against insurers as being without
merit because such an injunction was essential to the
success of the settlement, and its continuation was well
within the court's discretion.
As respects Chubb, Judge Koetle in affirming
Judge Liflin's 2004 order, specifically found that
Chubb, a multinational insurer that has paid more than a
billion dollars to resolve asbestos-related claims, was
clearly on notice of these proceedings. We cite in our
reply brief on pages 10 and 11 several 524(g)
injunctions that have run to the benefit of Chubb which
contain the exact same "based upon, arising out of, or
related to" language that appears in the original
Manville order.
We didn't cite -- but it's a matter of
public record -- that Chubb paid $550 million to resolve
through a bankruptcy proceeding with Fibreboard
liabilities relating to Fibreboard receiving the same
"based upon, arising out of, or related to" protection.
The Manville plan carries out the core
values of bankruptcy. The Manville trust has made
payments to 660,000 asbestos claimants -- that's at
record at 139 -- funded by $2.8 million of proceeds from
insurance settlements and the sale of the reorganized
and rehabilitated Manville --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there anything you want
to say about the practical thing I have in the back of
my mind which may be false? That language permits your
position, but it certainly has rarely been implemented,
if ever. And I see that, but in the back of my mind is
the fact that if we start mucking around and give narrow
meanings to these things now, there are going to be
hundreds of thousands of people who won't get
compensated who have asbestos --
MR. OSTRAGER: Precisely.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that true?
MR. OSTRAGER: That is absolutely --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there anything to back
that up?
MR. OSTRAGER: And I -- I wanted to point
out that in your dissent in the Ortiz case you said that
judges can and should search aggressively for ways
within the framework of existing law to avoid delay and
expense so great as to bring about a massive denial of
the injunction --
JUSTICE BREYER: I said that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was the dissenting
opinion.
MR. OSTRAGER: I understand that.
But you were -- on that particular point you
were correct. And we have a General Motors -- we have a
General Motors potential that I can see.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there are two
decisions of this Court, Abcam and Ortiz, that reject
that position.
MR. OSTRAGER: In Ortiz the -- the Court
absolutely recognized that where you have a special
statutory scheme that is designed as 524(g) and (h) is
to deal with these types of issues, that is an exception
to Hansberry versus Lee. I cannot --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
That case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:06 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
33:15 38:3 amount 9:2 Article 39:14 automatically
54:17 33:9 21:13 22:9 7:16 available 28:13
53:15 26:14 23:22,24 35:24 14:14,15 15:7 49:25
adopted 18:5 36:4 50:6 18:20 23:2 A&I 41:11
34:5 14:2 16:9,12 42:11,15 43:14 B
17:11
23:13 36:14 24:8 51:5,12 43:15 44:2,7 back 4:21 8:9
20:4 35:22 appeals 31:21 48:22,24 49:2 53:5,8,16
32:20 33:16 40:7,8 53:12 33:23
affirming 52:8 1:22 52:11 4:5,6
17:1 afforded 7:13 appendix 13:24 asked 20:22 22:22
aggressive 51:25 application 33:3 asking 9:22 22:4 27:11 36:23
53:20 appointed 51:22 aspects 6:15 4:13,20 5:12
11:6 34:1 9:16 12:9 14:6 29:21 8:25 9:3,8,12
24:15 agree 10:1 26:16 16:21 26:10 associated 7:10 9:15,25 10:6
42:16 32:14,15,16 42:19 assume 32:6 10:11,15,17,25
48:16 39:9 argue 47:13 36:16,17 11:1 12:4,7,24
agreement argues 41:5 attack 4:19 5:10 13:7 15:2,14
6:9,25 agreements 31:8 47:14 24:20 32:10 16:19,20 17:16
8:10 11:8 AL 1:4,7,15 argument 1:20 51:18 17:18 18:5,25
alike 20:14 3:2,11 4:4,8 attained 34:17 21:15 23:7
14:4 Alito 8:4 29:13 22:25 34:2,20 34:17 24:1,5,14
31:1,7 33:11 37:3,15 34:21,22 35:3 attempting 25:21 26:9,14
43:4,4,7 37:19 41:24 40:14 42:9 44:21 27:4 28:7 29:4
44:2 42:2,8 48:4 50:10 authority 10:17 29:18 30:11
50:3 allege 43:12 arisen 49:12 11:2 26:8 31:10,11 32:18
alleging 6:25 10:14 17:9 51:9 37:24 38:12,15
26:6,17 27:7 23:2 Chief 4:3,10 claimant 42:15
45:4 27:15,22 28:2 case 4:4 7:22,23 15:11,22,25 44:8,14 48:6
51:9 30:5 34:1 10:4,11 12:18 16:6,11 17:2 claimants 2:1
38:10,22,25 15:3 16:5,16 17:12 19:25 3:7 6:17,20
45:7,18,22 27:18 29:16 48:3,9,15,17 23:2 41:10
4:8 47:19 53:4,14 34:7 35:8 Chubb 2:3 3:10 49:10,11 52:1
53:16,24 37:17,20,22 6:8 12:9 40:16 52:25
8:5,6 9:23 48:10 51:6 42:24 50:4 49:3 52:8,10 claims 4:15
17:9 52:13 51:13,16,16,17 52:14,19 11:12 12:1,2
28:17,20 bring 20:20 51:17 53:19 Circuit 4:12,18 15:9 18:20
30:9,14 53:22 54:15,16 5:1,1,6,25 7:21 20:18,20 23:9
52:15 bringing 18:23 cases 11:17 7:25 8:7,11 25:6,18 26:23
30:8 12:14,17,20 10:19,24 13:5 26:25 27:12,19
3:4,6,9,13 broader 17:16 cause 44:25 32:20 33:17 41:14,25,25
23:1 40:15 19:4 31:10 48:16 37:1,24 42:18 42:1,9 43:3,9
50:11 36:2 40:22 Celotex 27:8 45:3 50:14,18 46:12,17,22
26:4 broadly 32:19 Central 22:2 52:2 48:20 49:17
36:8 42:13 cert 17:25 Circuit's 4:25 50:1,2,15,25
brought 34:7 certainly 7:19 20:11 30:24 clarification
business 19:3 25:7 33:6 53:7 27:4 clarified 51:8
36:19 C challenges 33:7 cite 51:6 52:12 41:8,10
C 2:2 3:1,8 4:1 change 9:11 52:18 clause 8:24 31:5
43:8 call 13:14 47:15 15:7 45:15 21:20,21 30:9 cleaning 29:5
called 39:17 47:13 50:24 30:23 32:11 clear 18:18
26:2 Cascino 2:1 3:6 cheaply 41:14 50:1 50:23 52:12
49:19 24:24 31:8,13 23:23 36:9 created 6:4
53:12 33:24 50:8 54:14 creates 20:13
43:6
conceivably contained 6:13 8:25 9:3 10:8 28:18,21 33:12
26:13 19:4 46:13,17 10:11,17,25 34:19 38:17
concept 8:13 contemnors 11:2 12:4,24
47:4 concern 42:9 43:9 13:21 15:17,24
48:3
conclude 20:6 21:24 34:11 18:5,6,25 21:3
7:22 40:20 44:23 continuation 24:14 26:9,18 day 21:3,19 22:5
24:20 confirm 9:17 7:25 8:2 52:3,6 29:4 31:10,11 deal 11:2 27:24
51:18 confirmation continues 18:1 31:21,22 32:10 28:11 36:12
6:16 8:5 20:8 31:7 33:14 34:3,9 dealing 21:13
46:3 contributed 36:9,19,25 9:18 10:18
confirmed 4:14 12:1 40:6,6,7,7,8,18 37:2,8,9,10
38:1 43:12 51:14 conventional 51:5 54:7,9 24:2,3 36:14
29:3 conflated 8:12 conversation 20:14 21:20 debtor/creditor
42:4 Congress 9:10 6:8 38:9 51:9 24:3
4:5 9:1,3 18:14 21:22 52:23 8:13,14 27:7 decades 41:16
12:18 36:21,21 37:3 cornerstone 51:10 52:7 decades-old
22:2 38:3,7 7:20 cover 5:5,21
28:5
29:9 50:24 correct 13:4 34:5,10 decided 4:12
38:11,12 conjectural 24:9 32:16 coverage 17:14 40:9
40:16 22:12 43:5,25 44:4 30:25 50:17 decision 4:25
44:22 connection 8:25 54:4 covered 6:11 8:5 19:3 20:12
15:1 16:9,11 24:20 31:21 32:4,4 33:17 49:21
50:3 effect 7:16 24:13 36:14 37:2 extraordinary
26:23 45:21 either 12:14 everybody 30:7 F
disagree 13:18 embraced 18:6 44:13,14,16 facilitating 9:11
41:2,17 5:8 exceedingly 42:21 48:3,6
discharges enforceable 30:17 31:2 51:6 53:9
discretion 8:3 Engineering 54:12 factual 36:15
disposition 14:6 38:13 47:24 fall 9:24 10:6
37:14 dissenting 53:25 ensuring 6:16 exonerate 20:3 21:20 26:18
46:4 distinct 8:13 enter 23:7 expanding 6:17 36:19 39:19
distinction 8:15 entered 32:11 expansion 23:20 41:21
district 18:5 46:19 expects 12:15 Federal 35:9
38:6 entitled 41:5 35:21 52:20,21
doubt 50:7 ESQ 1:23,25 2:2 8:8 25:6,17
due 25:11 39:18 14:8 52:5 exposure 34:16 final 13:9 22:18
48:1 establish 48:1 15:1 18:4 finality 22:17
D.C 1:17 11:18,25 12:5 8:16 13:8 findings 11:5
8:10 11:5 E 24:2,3 26:14 32:17 51:3 30:12,19 50:15
12:20 E 3:1 4:1,1 27:11 29:21,21 extends 16:5
28:25 48:6,11,12,13 21:21 39:17 Honorable 19:1 indicates 36:7
50:14 48:13,20 49:9 gotten 25:5 hundred 34:15 36:11
49:11 52:1 grandfather hundreds 53:11 indicating 11:5
F.3d 7:23 20:12 grandfathered hypothetical 51:1
19:19 20:5 great 53:22 ignored 13:5,11 information 6:7
54:4,5 51:19 ignoring 18:2,10 injunction 8:1
36:10 45:1 growth 9:11 imagine 25:6 18:15 19:4
13:1,10 17:22 H immunity 17:16 52:5 53:23
20:15,22,25 22:17 54:11 24:3 27:10,13 46:23 50:24
52:9 22:13 35:24 hand 10:22 37:2 40:9 injuries 48:24
54:6 Hanover 22:2 53:7 instant 50:15
46:18 51:9 53:9 happened 29:5 important 14:21 insurance 2:3
36:4 global 36:3 hear 4:3 incorporated 29:3,8,9 30:10
go 14:20 17:19 heard 21:4 51:22 30:13 32:2
28:2 30:21 hearings 7:9 incorrect 24:10 36:17 37:11
36:19 42:20 held 4:20 5:13 2:3 3:10 4:5 43:20,21 44:22
32:16 41:23 hold 30:3 38:4 5:18 23:8 30:2 49:19 50:17
going 15:13,15 Honor 30:20 42:16 43:12 53:2
28:20 34:13 53:10 34:25 36:7 indicate 28:10 insureds 43:11
47:11 good 17:7 21:20 46:24 49:4,15 indicated 23:5 insurer 6:25
34:14,18 28:24 29:11 10:18 12:4,8 40:12,17 41:24 39:23,24,25
48:5 30:20 31:6,18 15:18 16:7,18 42:2,8,24 40:1,3,4,5 45:9
31:24 32:15,24 17:18 23:6,14 43:22 44:6,10 52:16 53:6
6:1,3,10 35:6 36:6 37:5 24:9,17,18,19 45:18,22 46:1 latency 48:23
31:2 37:18,21 38:21 24:23 25:25 46:7,9,11,14 law 1:11 4:5
50:25 38:24 39:4,12 31:15,16,20 46:20,25 47:6 9:12,15 18:7
39:20,25 40:2 32:10 33:4,8,9 47:19,22 48:3 23:9 29:15
7:17,19 16:16,20 18:2 47:25 53:16,24,25 lawsuits 30:12
18:7 23:6,16 jurisdictional 54:6,14 learned 43:13
31:23 35:15 justice 4:3,10,24 Lee 54:13
37:6 42:14 45:14,21 6:21 7:3,15 8:4 Katz 16:5 legal 29:23
issued 12:24 9:20 10:3,5,10 12:3,11 14:19 legitimate 33:20
40:21 51:15 11:14,22 12:3 23:10 24:6,16 letter 36:8
issues 54:12 12:11,19 13:1 24:22 31:3,14 let's 32:6 36:16
34:5,10 J 14:11,16,19 Kennedy's liabilities 29:3
38:9 JACOB 2:2 3:8 15:4,11,22,25 25:15 42:23 52:21
42:12 40:14 16:6,11,23,25 kick 17:4 liability 5:5,20
33:25 Johns-Manville 18:8,17 19:7 28:11,12 15:15 17:5
30:16 20:2,15,22,25 know 8:22 15:25 36:2 37:14
12:24 15:2,2 23:10,13 24:6 25:23 36:6,7 44:22 45:6,12
30:11 37:23,23 26:2,6,17 27:7 50:6 34:13 51:1
judges 53:20 31:3,14,19 41:18 limitation 17:9
22:24,25 judicata 48:7 34:1 35:4,24 L liquidate 24:15
24:11 jurisdiction 37:3,15,19 lacked 4:20 8:9 litigants 20:14
25:8,14 4:14,21 8:6,9 38:10,22,24 11:2 litigation 21:15
27:6 8:14,15,19,24 39:2,6,13,16 language 6:13 22:19,20 43:2
28:1,9 9:23 10:8,12 39:21,23 40:1 30:18 37:6,10 49:21 52:1
47:20 Mario 19:2 missing 14:21 21:11 22:9 open 28:7 34:16
Martin 21:25 mistake 47:24 nondebtor 23:8 opinion 30:24
12:7 modelled 13:7 12:8 21:4 24:25
32:1 24:19,23 27:5 14:1 51:5 non-Manville oral 1:19 3:2 4:8
31:14,20 33:4 moment 28:17 48:5 22:25 40:14
21:18 33:12,20 25:5 27:1 22:14,14 24:7 5:4,6,8,10,12
41:1 42:8 meaning 26:7 monies 35:11 25:9,10,12,21 6:16,24 7:5,10
means 13:25 Motors 54:4,5 31:8 52:12 13:9 16:20
42:11 Mullaney 22:2 number 34:20 18:19,22 19:9
6:2,7,15 measuring multinational numeral 37:11 22:18 23:7,10
10:12,13 42:19 52:10 N.Y 1:23,25 23:16,17,19
11:6,11 mediation 19:1 mysterious 24:8,20 26:9
12:1 19:2,5 12:18 18:18 O 26:19 28:15,21
meet 9:18 13:23 mystery 18:17 O 3:1 4:1 29:19,22 32:11
16:18 13:25 16:10 object 25:1 32:12,19,23
19:13 members 39:8 N objections 14:5 33:3,7,16,22
31:1 merely 29:9 N 3:1,1 4:1 objectives 14:5 33:25 34:4,9
40:22 merit 52:5 narrow 32:7 obligation 5:5 34:24 35:15
million 18:21 53:9 5:21 30:14,15 36:1 41:22
42:3 19:10 43:8 national 9:4 31:12 49:20 42:12 45:5,9
52:19 53:1 nation's 9:12 obligations 45:14,15,19,20
millions 34:15 NCAA 25:12 12:22 47:10,17 45:23,24 46:2
45:6,12 mind 28:5 33:24 necessary 16:21 obtain 40:23 46:3,17,18
49:17 34:23 53:6,8 17:3 26:10 obtained 19:9 47:1,15,16
minute 29:13 necessity 35:21 Obviously 35:2 48:8,19 50:21
52:17,23 minutes 50:9 need 15:12 occurred 30:22 50:22 51:19
53:3 misbehavior 16:15 offers 23:8 52:3,9,17
12:23 misconduct 6:25 19:17 29:1 oh 6:10 20:24 original 18:19
44:11,23 28:20 29:8 never 5:8 12:21 Okay 9:20 10:3 25:17,19 52:16
34:14 27:25 34:17 25:9 32:5,25 originally 18:22
54:7,9 28:10 48:1 piece 6:6 46:1 54:5 26:9 39:18,19
4:7,8,10particularly Pipeline 38:2 11:25 19:24,24 products 41:1
5:11,22 38:1 place 20:11 power 9:8,25 proffered 41:22
7:2,8 parties 20:19 22:20 10:6 16:19 proper 12:17
8:7 9:6,9 24:7,11 35:10 places 24:4 24:4 35:16 properly 4:14
10:1,4,10 35:12 plaintiff 42:16 40:10 property 29:21
party 12:4 15:8 plaintiffs 11:17 powers 37:25 29:24 30:2,4
12:6,19 24:21 27:19 12:14 25:3 practical 27:23 32:3 33:17
14:8 passed 37:16 43:25 44:1,4 53:5 45:17
pay 9:1 15:17 44:17,18 49:9 practically proposed 17:3
16:4,8 43:8 plan 4:14,17 35:25 44:13 proposition
17:8,20 payments 11:18 6:12,14 9:17 practices 43:10 37:16
52:25 45:4 51:14 precisely 18:23 propriety 8:14
PEARLIE 1:7 52:23 41:4 53:13 props 20:9
1:15 please 4:11 23:4 precluded 22:6 prospective 29:2
pending 14:4 40:18 34:11 29:7 33:3,7
pension 26:20 pocket 42:22 predicated 8:8 protect 47:23
26:22 38:12,14 point 7:7,9 8:21 premise 36:15 protecting 51:25
38:16,18,22 8:21 14:22 premised 45:5 protection 16:13
people 18:22 29:6 32:8 33:5 45:16 39:17 40:22
24:2 48:21 49:8 54:3 24:12 25:16 provided 41:20
51:20 19:14 30:13,15 presumably provision 21:23
21:24 personal 24:17 posed 16:7,9 35:2 19:14
50:19 31:16 33:8 23:12 problems 25:20 pure 18:7
18:1,10 pertained 36:23 44:11 48:5 proceeding purported 47:24
52:13 petition 17:25 53:7 54:8 10:14 26:12,13 purpose 7:12
23:11,21,24 possible 22:14 52:20 42:18
1:24 3:4,13 4:9 post-confirma... 18:25 52:12 purposes 36:16
Philadelphia 2:2 pot 6:5 32:3 53:1 47:16
41:7 reasonable 26:23 36:24,24 52:13 14:1 51:5
11:15 22:22 50:10 40:4,5,9 42:2,6 41:9,9 48:21 35:6 44:19
16:2,16 received 14:14 47:2 52:21 representative 46:11,20,25
20:15,23 14:15 relation 9:3 48:20 49:10 rightly 10:20
receiving 52:21 30:17 42:3,10 51:21,24 rights 31:12
recodified 29:19 relationship represented 50:5
26:1 recognized 5:25 11:13 24:4 24:8 49:9 ROBERTS 4:3
29:13 8:16 14:25,25 release 19:8,12 representing 15:11,25 16:6
33:2,19 16:4 21:7 19:12,16,19 48:12 16:11 17:12
35:10,25 54:10 20:5,17 23:8 requirements 22:23 40:12
38:19 record 6:23 7:7 24:2 28:12,12 9:19 13:24 47:22 48:9,15
7:8 28:10,25 29:24 30:2,6 res 16:5 48:7 48:17,25 49:5
49:14 53:1 36:10 20:16 22:21 54:14
40:4 recovery 11:17 releases 19:3,9 resolved 4:15 Roman 37:11
50:15,17 reduce 11:18 37:13 18:3 22:15,22 round 43:2
refer 46:4 releasing 30:7 42:13 43:10 rule 22:1,3,4
50:10 30:24 relief 7:13 37:8 respond 49:22 run 11:6,11
34:1 53:3 14:13 23:1 safeguards 9:11
6:2 7:20 9:18 43:19 3:5 22:25
29:4 reject 54:7 51:14,23 resulted 43:3 17:15 27:15
rejected 51:18 reorganize retired 47:17 35:16 44:16
relate 12:21 reorganized 29:5 13:22 15:12,14
34:24 related 4:23 repeatedly reviewable 38:6 37:7,7 38:13
17:10,19 19:13 reply 48:10 51:6 revoked 13:9,20 Scalia 8:18 9:6,7
10:3 36:1 41:14 specific 29:1 subsequently terms 15:1
16:25 settlement 1:11 36:21 32:18 28:21 32:12
15:12 17:19 13:18,22 15:7 succeeded 13:3 test 26:11,15
32:23 20:18 21:2,2 spelled 48:18 14:12,14 52:6 tethers 40:11
24:13 31:3 spoken 50:23 successive 21:14 Thank 22:23
5:1,1,6,25 46:2,17 47:16 37:1 suggested 32:8 theory 8:8 12:13
8:4,7 50:22 52:6 stands 5:2 suggesting 12:14 16:2
10:16,19 settlements stand-alone 16:12 they'd 43:8
11:1 14:24 53:2 37:25 suggestion thing 28:3 37:19
13:5,14 settling 47:12 Stargell 21:25 48:11 53:5
17:23 show 30:19 start 53:9 suit 25:17 30:8 things 9:24
18:6,9 side 49:20 started 5:18 suits 5:19 11:6 28:25 42:9
29:14,16 signed 36:8 41:1 14:20 28:6 53:10
30:24 simply 7:16 8:22 State 13:2 21:20 49:18 52:4 think 5:9 9:7
9:24 35:20 23:8 26:13 supplemental 14:21 16:15
35:6 37:22 44:10 35:13,19 49:19 51:11 17:20 22:1
42:18 50:4 51:10 stated 45:3,5,7,7 suppliers 6:20 25:2 26:6
50:14,18 single 27:12,21 States 1:1,20 suppose 8:22 27:17 28:9,13
51:14,18 situation 20:13 statute 8:20 10:9 26:20,23,24 28:19 29:12,25
52:2 size 34:17 25:25 26:8 47:25 31:25 32:20
29:17,19 44:3 48:11 statutory 39:22 49:23 36:20 39:12,21
53:8 sorry 20:24 12:19 14:3,9 sweeping 20:17 thought 5:18 7:4
33:13 14:11,16 Syngenta 35:7,9 10:20 25:3,25
sought 38:3 stuff 31:4 30:18 53:11
7:15 21:8 8:9,13,15 9:16 T 3:1,1 thumb 38:24
44:6,10,15,24 31:20 33:4,9 talking 31:16,18 25:18 30:1
26:19 27:4 36:9 54:15,17 terminated title 10:14 16:22
values 52:24 1986 4:21 5:2,10
49:12
17:6,10 ubiquity 44:12 27:16 6:24 8:9 18:19
20:3 ultimately 6:13 version 51:7 19:8,16,22
44:16 versus 54:13 23:10,16 24:8
unanimously 34:8 38:10 X 29:14 30:22
uncontrollable 34:15 38:11,12
5:15,16 understand voluminous Y 49:10,17,21
10:22 12:12,13,15 11:16 year 4:17 52:3
13:2 14:7,20 years 8:16 9:10 1988 4:12 29:16
28:16 29:11 W 18:25 41:16 29:23 31:25
42:25 43:2,22 want 19:19 20:1 York 1:23,25 32:20
17:4,14 43:23 44:24 20:6,20 21:3 1990s 41:16
26:20 38:13 $
19:5,14 1994 37:4 38:8
20:18 1996 7:23 8:1
32:9 50:13 53:4 $4 38:11
29:1 51:17
34:12
34:18 warn 43:15,18 19:10 2
42:2
45:6 unlimited 43:20 way 4:25 45:15 2004 5:3,6 23:18
1:6 4:4
48:10 unmanageable ways 53:20 50:5 52:9
1:14
20:13 went 28:10 2006 23:18
39:6 unravels 20:8 Wilks 21:25 3
16:19
unrelated 9:1 wipes 40:19 30 1:18
10:14 16:22
36:4 unrepresented 42:25 44:4,17 11:06 54:16 33 50:19
48:6 wit 9:22 33a 17:24
9:19
1334(d) 29:17
471 13:25
18:10 139 53:1
25:5 V working 41:19 15 41:16 5
34:22,25 v 1:6,14 4:5,6 workouts 36:13 16 9:18
25:3
3:13
13:11
13:6,18
18:1
22:17
51:3
52:13
13:24
13:21
11:5
14:14
8:16
19:19
21:24
7:25 28:21
7:23 20:12
