IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CITIZENS UNITED, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-205
FEDERAL ELECTION :
COMMISSION. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 24, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:09 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:09 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument today in Case 08-205, Citizens United v. The
Federal Election Commission.
Mr. Olson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Participation in the political process is
the First Amendment's most fundamental guarantee. Yet
that freedom is being smothered by one of the most
complicated, expensive, and incomprehensible regulatory
regimes ever invented by the administrative state.
In the case that you consider today, it is a
felony for a small, nonprofit corporation to offer
interested viewers a 90-minute political documentary
about a candidate for the nation's highest office, that
General Electric, National Public Radio, or George Soros
may freely broadcast. Its film may be shown in
theaters, sold on DVDs, transmitted for downloading on
the Internet, and its message may be distributed in the
form of a book. But its producers face 5 years in
prison if they offer it in the home through the vehicle
of Video On Demand.
Because the limitation on speech, political
speech, is at the core of the First Amendment, the
government has a heavy burden to establish each
application of a restriction on that form of speech is a
narrowly tailored response to a compelling governmental
interest. The government cannot prove and has not
attempted to prove that a 90-minute documentary made
available to people who choose affirmatively to receive
it, to opt in, by an ideologically oriented small
corporation poses any threat of quid pro quo corruption
or its appearance. Indeed, this documentary is the very
definition of robust, uninhibited debate about a subject
of intense political interest that the First Amendment
is there to guarantee.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Olson, if the film were
distributed by General Motors, would your argument be
the same?
MR. OLSON: Well, it wouldn't -- definitely
would not be the same because there are several aspects
of the argument that we present. However, in one
respect, it would. A 90-minute documentary was not the
sort of thing that the -- the BCRA -- the Congress was
intended to prohibit. In fact, as the -- as the
Reporters Committee for -- for Freedom of Speech points
out, the documentary is indistinguishable from other
news media commentary --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the -- the point, then,
of similarity is you would, whether it was offered by
General Motors or offered by -- by this Petitioner, in
effect call for some qualification of the -- the general
rule allowing limitations on corporate political
activity of the speech variety?
MR. OLSON: Yes, we would, although it is a
very important factor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So how would we draw the
line?
MR. OLSON: Well, one of the reasons that --
one of the bases upon which you would draw the line is
to look at the documentary -- the voluminous documentary
record that the government cites and this Court cited in
the McConnell case as a justification for the
restrictions themselves. As --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, would every -- in
effect, every limitation on corporate speech or on
corporate expenditure and the nature of speech be
subject, then, to in effect this all-factor balancing
test?
MR. OLSON: Well, I think what I'm trying to
say is that what the -- what the Congress was concerned
with -- and Judge Kollar-Kotelly in the district court
opinion that you considered in McConnell discusses this
on page 646 of her opinion -- that this sort of
communication was not something that Congress intended
to prohibit. You would look at, if Congress intended to
prohibit 90-minutes --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So -- so your -- your
argument then is there's something distinct about the
speech, which could be considered regardless of the
corporate form?
MR. OLSON: Well, that's part of our
argument, yes. It's not --
JUSTICE SOUTER: If that is the case, what
is -- what is the answer to this? That -- that still is
going to involve a -- a fairly complicated set of
analyses, probably in a lot of cases. Why is that
necessary or worthwhile to preserve First Amendment
values when you could have done this with a PAC?
MR. OLSON: Well, as this Court said in the
Wisconsin Right to Life case just a couple years ago,
that the PAC vehicle is burdensome and difficult.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That's right. You've got
reporting. You've got limitations on -- on corporate
contributions and so on, but in this case, for example,
most of your contributions, as I understand from the
record, were individual. They weren't corporate. There
was one perhaps. There was some corporate contributions
--
MR. OLSON: Yes, on page 252 of the appendix
and 251, it points out -- you're absolutely correct --
that 1 percent of the contributions --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. OLSON: -- were from corporations.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was that -- was that
established? I thought that the record was hardly made
of the contributors to this film. I think there was
something like $200,000 accounted for, and the film cost
-- to get the Channel '08, whatever it was, to put it on
cost over a million dollars?
MR. OLSON: The government sent an
interrogatory, Justice Ginsburg, asking for the major
contributions with respect to this project, and the ones
that they sought -- the government sought what they
thought was important; the answer to that interrogatory
is at page 251a and 252a -- that the government was
seeking information with respect to contributions at a
$1,000 or more; 198,000 came from individuals. And, by
the way, the three largest contributors that are listed
on page 252 of the Joint Appendix are given credit in
the film itself. So there's no effort to -- to conceal
those individuals.
So that it's possible -- it's possible that
corporations throughout America were giving small
amounts of money to this. That record doesn't establish
one way or the other. What it does establish is what
the government felt was necessary for its case that the
major contributors were individuals and not
corporations.
JUSTICE BREYER: You have answered Justice
Souter. I took your answer to be the following: That
if the corporation had paid -- paid for a program and
the program was 90 minutes which said vote for Smith,
vote for Smith over and over -- that's the program --
that you concede that the government could ban this
under the Act.
MR. OLSON: Well, it is difficult --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't think they would.
We agree. It's an imaginary hypothetical. But, in
fact, if they did have 90 minutes of vote for Smith or
vote against Jones, you concede for purposes of this
argument that the government can ban it. Is that bright
or not?
MR. OLSON: If -- not by this organization.
We think that if it's a small, nonprofit organization,
which is very much like the Massachusetts --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, okay. So one of your
arguments is this is a special corporation. You can't.
Now suppose it's General Motors. Can they?
MR. OLSON: Well, General Motors may be
smaller than the client that we are representing.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I would just like to get --
I want to get an answer to the question.
MR. OLSON: Yes, I think that's a big step.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now, in my question
that I'm driving towards is: Since General Motors can
in your view be forbidden to have our film of 90 minutes
vote for Smith, vote for Smith, vote for Smith, or vote
against Jones, vote against Jones, vote against Jones,
how is this film, which I saw -- it is not a musical
comedy. What --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: What -- how does this film
vary from my example, and why does the variance make a
difference?
MR. OLSON: The difference is: It's exactly
what the Court was describing in Wisconsin Right To
Life. It is a 90 -- it is -- it informs and educates,
which is what the Court said, or the Chief Justice's
opinion, the controlling opinion said, was the mark of
an issue communication. And as this Court said --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Olson, I thought you
conceded in the -- at least as I read your reply brief,
that you were no longer saying this is about an issue
unrelated to any election. I thought you said that this
was a 90-minute movie "concerning the qualifications,
character, and fitness of a candidate for the Nation's
highest office." And that's just what Wisconsin Right
to Life was not. It was not about the character,
qualifications, and fitness of either of the Senators.
MR. OLSON: What the -- what the Court said
in Wisconsin Right to Life was that the distinction
between an issue -- issue advocacy and campaign advocacy
dissolves upon practical application. This is exactly
what the Court was talking about there. And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But didn't the Court
there say this is not about character, qualifications,
and fitness?
MR. OLSON: Yes, it did, Justice Ginsburg,
but what my point is: That there isn't just two boxes
in the world of communications about public issues, one
box for so-called issues and one box for campaign
advocacy. That's what I think the Court meant when it
said, not just in Wisconsin Right to Life but in earlier
cases, that the distinction dissolves upon application.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- how many boxes we have?
Doesn't this one fall into campaign advocacy? I mean
I've got the government's brief open at -- open at pages
18 and 19 with the quotations: She will lie about
anything. She is deceitful. She is ruthless, cunning,
dishonest, do anything for power, will speak
dishonestly, reckless, a congenital liar, sorely lacking
in qualifications, not qualified as commander in chief.
I mean, this sounds to me like campaign advocacy.
MR. OLSON: It -- what -- what the court was
talking about and as Justice Kollar-Kotelly talked about
is broadcast advertising, these 10-minute -- 10-second,
30-second, 60-second bursts of communication that are --
that are the influence in elections.
JUSTICE BREYER: I want to get the answer to
what I was asking.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But it -- it seems to me,
the answer to Justice Breyer's question: This is a
don't vote for Jones.
MR. OLSON: This is a long discussion of the
record, qualifications, history, and conduct of someone
who is in the political arena, a person who already
holds public office, who now holds a different public
office, who, yes, at that point, Justice Souter, was
running for office. But the fact is that what could the
individual making a -- as I said, the Reporters
Committee for the Right to Life said this is
indistinguishable from something that is on the public
media every day, a long discussion. It might be -- what
you're suggesting is that unless it's somehow
evenhanded, unless it somehow says -- which would be
viewpoint discrimination or prevention of viewpoints,
which is the safe harbor that the government has written
into its so-called safe harbor, if you don't have a
point of view, you can go ahead and express it.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, that isn't -- that
isn't the suggestion. The suggestion I was going to, or
trying to get to, is we know you can't just say vote
against Smith, vote against Smith, vote against Smith.
Now, I wanted to know the difference between that and a
film that picks out bad things that people did -- no
good ones, just bad ones the candidate did. And then we
have another film that picks out just good things
candidates do. And so candidates run films that show
the good things they do, and then someone else shows the
bad things they do.
Now, why is that not the same as vote
against Smith? Though I grant you, it's more
intelligent. It's more informative. It's even better
electioneering. So we're after electioneering. Why
doesn't that fall within the forbidden category?
MR. OLSON: The government has the burden to
prove -- and there's a compelling governmental interest
narrowly tailored, Justice Breyer, because all kinds of
things of the type that you're talking about are
permissible if your name is General Motors -- I, mean if
your name is General Electric rather than General
Motors, if your name is Disney, if your name is George
Soros, if your name is National Public Radio.
What you're suggesting is that a long
discussion of facts, record, history, interviews,
documentation, and that sort of thing, if it's all
negative, it can be prohibited by -- and it's a felony.
You can go to jail for 5 years for sharing that
information with the American public, or if it's all
favorable, you can go to jail. But if you did half and
half, you couldn't.
JUSTICE BREYER: I -- I guess it's the same
as if you were to say, you know, I think Smith is a
great guy. That's all. I'm sharing information. And
what I don't see is if you agree that we could ban the
commercial that says, I see Smith is a great guy, why is
it any different to supplement that with the five best
things that Smith ever did?
MR. OLSON: Because -- because of the First
Amendment. Congress shall make no law abridging the
freedom of speech. When -- when the government had --
when this Court has permitted that to happen, it has
only done it in the most narrow circumstances for a
compelling governmental interest.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I -- I guess what --
what Justice Breyer is asking is -- I have the same
question. If we concede -- and at the end of the day
you might not concede this, but if we take this as a
beginning point, that a short, 30-second, 1-minute
campaign ad can be regulated, you want me to write an
opinion and say, well, if it's 90 minutes, then that's
different. I -- it seems to me that you can make the
argument that 90 -- that 90 minutes is much more
powerful in support or in opposition to a candidate.
That's I -- that's the thrust of the questioning.
MR. OLSON: I understand that, Justice
Kennedy, and it is difficult. But let me say that the
record that you were considering in McConnell -- and I
specifically invite, as I did before, page -- the
Court's attention to 646 of this -- of the district
court's opinion, which specifically said the government
and Congress was concerned about these short, punchy ads
that you have no choice about seeing, and not concerned
about a thorough recitation of facts or things that you
would have to make an affirmative decision to opt into.
And the reason why it's difficult is that we
are talking about an infinite variety of ability of
people to speak about things that matter more to them
than anything else, who will be --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I think you
have kind of shifted your focus here from the difference
between a 10-second ad and a 90-minute presentation and
how that presentation is received, whether it's over the
normal airwaves or on this Video On Demand. What --
what is the distinction between the 10-second commercial
and, say, the 90-minute infomercial?
MR. OLSON: The thing that I think it's --
it's pointed out specifically in your opinion,
controlling opinion for Wisconsin Right To Life. That
which informs and educates and may seek to persuade is
something that is -- is on the line of being
permissible. The government hasn't established -- never
did try to establish -- I did shift -- I didn't shift
but all of these are factors. It's who's doing the
speaking.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can educate in 30
seconds. I mean in -- in a 30-second ad you present
just one of these criticisms of the candidate instead of
lumping all of them together for 90 minutes.
MR. OLSON: The point, I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that education?
MR. OLSON: The point, I think, Justice
Scalia, is, yes, you can educate in 10 seconds, you can
educate in 30 seconds. But what -- what the Court was
trying to do -- what Congress was trying to do is get at
the things that were most potentially corruptive.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait, are you making a
statutory argument now or a constitutional argument?
What Congress was trying to do has nothing to do, it
seems to me, with the constitutional point you're
arguing.
MR. OLSON: The government makes the point
that it established a voluminous record of evidence.
Both Congress had before it and this Court had before it
a voluminous volume of evidence because it had the
burden of proving that something was really bad with
these -- these types of advertisements.
And what the -- what the Court did is say,
well, okay -- in McConnell -- yes, there is a
substantial burden that the government met that these
types of communications -- not the Internet, not books,
not other types of things -- are really bad enough that
the government could pick those out, and it has narrowly
tailored its solution to that problem by prohibiting
those things. And the government talks about today in
its brief the things that Congress felt were the most
acute problems. Now --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you're making a
statutory argument now?
MR. OLSON: I'm making a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying that this --
this isn't covered by it.
MR. OLSON: Yes, I am making a statutory
argument in the sense that you will construe the statute
in the ways that doesn't violate the Constitution. The
Constitution, as -- as the Court said in Wisconsin Right
to Life, gives ties to the speaker, errs on the side of
permitting the speech, not prohibiting the speech. And
so all those things may be statutory arguments, Justice
Scalia, but they are also constitutional arguments.
And in response to every one of these
questions, the government has the burden of proving this
sort of speech, which the Reporters say is
indistinguishable, than the kind of information that
news media puts out all the time, not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So this argument
doesn't depend upon whether this is properly
characterized as express -- the functional equivalent of
express advocacy? Your contention is that even if it
is, that because it wasn't in the factual record in
McConnell or before Congress, it is a type of functional
-- it is a type of express advocacy that's not covered
by the Act?
MR. OLSON: I don't think, Chief Justice
Roberts, that it is remotely the functional equivalent
of express advocacy, because what the Court and Congress
was thinking about with respect to express advocacy was
short, punchy things that you have no --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's --
that's why I'm trying to figure out, the distinction in
your argument. I mean, if we think that this is the
functional equivalent of express advocacy, are you
contending that it is nonetheless not covered in light
of the record before the Court in McConnell and before
Congress?
MR. OLSON: I -- I think I would agree with
that, but I would also say that the -- the idea, the
functional equivalent of express advocacy is the very
magic word problem that this Court has struggled with in
McConnell and in -- in each of the cases.
I would -- I said at the beginning that this
is an incomprehensible prohibition, and I -- and my -- I
think that's demonstrated by the fact that since 2003
this Court has issued something close to 500 pages of
opinions interpreting and trying to apply the First
Amendment to Federal election law. And I counted 22
separate opinions from the Justices of this Court
attempting to -- in just the last 6 years, attempting to
figure out what this statute means, how it can be
interpreted. In fact --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's because
it's mandatory appellate jurisdiction. I mean, you
don't have a choice.
(Laughter.)
MR. OLSON: There would be fewer -- there
would be fewer opinions. I guess my point is that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And maybe those cases
presented more difficult issues than this one.
MR. OLSON: I think this presents a much
easier issue, Justice Stevens, because this is the type
of -- if there is anything that the First Amendment is
intended to protect in the context of elections that are
occurring -- which, by the way, occur 4 years running,
but the last election, presidential election occurred
throughout the entire 2008 -- if the American people
need to have that kind of information. And the statute
is both overly broad because if it were a hotel ad, if
it was a hotel saying Senator Clinton stayed here or
Senator McCain stayed here, it would be prohibited
because it was a hotel saying so, even though it really
had nothing to do with the election. If it is -- but
it's -- if it's a corporation that put together an
analysis of the earmark positions of each of the
senatorial candidates -- most all of the candidates were
running from the Senate, they all had this -- these
issues where they may have voted or not against
earmarks, that would --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But, Mr. Olson, this is
-- I think you were right in conceding at the beginning,
this is not like the speech involved in Wisconsin Right
to Life. This is targeted to a specific candidate for a
specific office to be shown on a channel that says
Election '08, that tells the viewer over and over again
what, just for example, it concludes with these are
things worth remembering before you go in potentially to
vote for Hillary Clinton.
Now, if that isn't an appeal to voters, I
can't imagine what is.
MR. OLSON: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, I
understand your point. There is much in there that if
you saw it, you would form an opinion with respect to
how you might want to vote. You might -- it might form
a different -- you might form all kinds of different
opinions.
But it was -- it was an analysis of the
background record and history and qualifications of
someone running for president, of course I concede that.
But what is the -- what is the maker of a movie to take
out in order to prevent that from happening?
I understand from some of the questions that
if it was more evenhanded -- if it said, well, this
candidate did this, but this candidate did this or this
candidate was born in the Panama Canal Zone and this
candidate was born in Hawaii, and that affects whether
or not they are natural-born citizens or not, and it was
more evenhanded, would that then not be a felony?
JUSTICE SOUTER: As you -- as you've said
yourself, as you pointed out, there -- there is a point
at which there is no nonporous border between issue
discussion and candidate discussion. But I think the --
the problem that -- that Justice Ginsburg is having, I'm
having, and others is that it does not seem to me that
with the quotations we're dealing with here, as Justice
Breyer said, it's not a musical comedy. I think we --
we have no choice, really, but to say this is not issue
advocacy; this is express advocacy saying don't vote for
this person.
And if that is a fair characterization, the
difference between 90 minutes and 1 minute, either for
statutory purposes or constitutional purposes, is a
distinction that I just cannot follow.
MR. OLSON: Well, it is a distinction that
Congress was concerned about, and it's a distinction
that's all over the record --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You say that. Why --
what -- what is your basis for saying that Congress is
-- is less concerned with 90 minutes of don't vote for
Clinton than it was with 60 seconds of don't vote?
MR. OLSON: Because -- because the record in
Congress and the record in this Court is that those
types of advertisements were more effective because they
came into your home --
JUSTICE SOUTER: They are the characteristic
advertisement. There is no question about that. That
is the paradigm case. I agree with you. But I don't
see how you -- you then leap-frog from saying -- from
saying that is the paradigm case to saying that this
never covers anything but the paradigm case when the
only distinction is time.
MR. OLSON: The -- the -- I think the --
what -- what Congress was concerned about is the most
severe and the most acute problem, as Justice
Kollar-Kotelly said, which everyone acknowledges was the
problem Congress sought to address with BCRA. It's not
just that, however.
The point that you just made about a
nonporous border, it is the government's responsibility
to the extent that you can't figure out how evenhanded
you must be or what you must take out of your
communication in order not to go to jail for airing it,
it is the functional equivalent -- if everything is the
functional equivalent that mentions a candidate during
an election, which is what the government says, it's the
functional equivalent of a prior restraint, because you
don't dare --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Olson, I -- I think
we've been led astray by -- by the constant reference to
what Congress intended. As I understood your point, it
was not -- it was not that, well, one is covered by the
statute and the other isn't, but it is that one is
covered by the Constitution and the other isn't. And it
may well be that -- that the kind of speech that is
reflected in a serious 90-minute documentary is entitled
to greater constitutional protection. And it may well
be that the kind of speech that is not only offered but
invited by the listener is entitled to -- is entitled to
heightened First Amendment scrutiny, which is -- which
is what this is since you have pay for view --
MR. OLSON: I agree with that completely,
Justice Scalia.
Mr. Chief Justice, if I may reserve the
remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Stewart.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The lead opinion in Wisconsin Right to Life
didn't just use the term "functional equivalent of
express advocacy"; it explained what that term meant,
and on page 2667 of volume 127 of the Supreme Court
Reporter, the plurality or the lead opinion stated: "In
light of these considerations, a Court should find that
an ad is the functional equivalent of express advocacy
only if the ad is susceptible of no reasonable
interpretation other than as an appeal to vote for or
against a specific candidate."
So the functional equivalence test doesn't
depend on the length of the advertisement or the medium
in which the advertisement --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the length of
the advertisements wasn't remotely at issue in either
Washington Right to Life or McConnell or before Congress
when they passed this law.
MR. STEWART: Well, certainly Congress
considered a variety of evidence bearing on campaign
practices that had been undertaken in the past. They
were primarily -- most of the examples on which they
focused were 30-second and 60-second advertisements. It
had certainly been a recurring phenomenon in the past
that candidates would air, for instance, 30-minute
infomercials.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Any discussion
either in McConnell -- any citation either in McConnell
or the Congressional Record to those types of
documentaries?
MR. STEWART: I'm not sure about the
citation; I'm not aware of any citation in McConnell or
the Congressional Record, but it was certainly a known
phenomenon. And I think the real --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I mean, how do
we know it was a known phenomenon in terms of the
evolution of the statute and the decision of this Court
upholding it? There is no reference to it.
MR. STEWART: Well, the real -- I think the
real key to ascertaining Congress's intent is to look to
the definition of electioneering communication that
Congress enacted into the statute, and that definition
requires that the communication be a broadcast, cable or
satellite communication in order to qualify as an
electioneering communication, and that it be aired
within a certain proximity to a Federal election, and
that in the case of an --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- so if Wal-Mart
airs an advertisement that says we have candidate action
figures for sale, come buy them, that counts as an
electioneering communication?
MR. STEWART: If it's aired in the right
place at the right time, that would be covered. Now,
under this Court's decision in Wisconsin Right to Life
it would be unconstitutional as applied to those
advertisements, because those advertisements certainly
would be susceptible of a reasonable construction of the
Constitution.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think the
Constitution required Congress to draw the line where it
did, limiting this to broadcast and cable and so forth?
What's your answer to Mr. Olson's point that there isn't
any constitutional difference between the distribution
of this movie on video demand and providing access on
the Internet, providing DVDs, either through a
commercial service or maybe in a public library,
providing the same thing in a book? Would the
Constitution permit the restriction of all of those as
well?
MR. STEWART: I think the -- the
Constitution would have permitted Congress to apply the
electioneering communication restrictions to the extent
that they were otherwise constitutional under Wisconsin
Right to Life. Those could have been applied to
additional media as well. And it's worth remembering
that the preexisting Federal Election Campaign Act
restrictions on corporate electioneering which have been
limited by this Court's decisions to express advocacy.
JUSTICE ALITO: That's pretty incredible.
You think that if -- if a book was published, a campaign
biography that was the functional equivalent of express
advocacy, that could be banned?
MR. STEWART: I'm not saying it could be
banned. I'm saying that Congress could prohibit the use
of corporate treasury funds and could require a
corporation to publish it using its --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, most publishers are
corporations. And a publisher that is a corporation
could be prohibited from selling a book?
MR. STEWART: Well, of course the statute
contains its own media exemption or media --
JUSTICE ALITO: I'm not asking what the
statute says. The government's position is that the
First Amendment allows the banning of a book if it's
published by a corporation?
MR. STEWART: Because the First Amendment
refers both to freedom of speech and of the press, there
would be a potential argument that media corporations,
the institutional press, would have a greater First
Amendment right. That question is obviously not
presented here. But the other two things --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose it were an
advocacy organization that had a book. Your position is
that under the Constitution, the advertising for this
book or the sale for the book itself could be prohibited
within the 60 -- 90-day period -- the 60 -- the 30-day
period?
MR. STEWART: If the book contained the
functional equivalent of express advocacy. That is, if
it was subject to no reasonable interpretation --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I suppose it could
even, is it the Kindle where you can read a book? I
take it that's from a satellite. So the existing
statute would probably prohibit that under your view?
MR. STEWART: Well, the statute applies to
cable, satellite, and broadcast communications. And the
Court in McConnell has addressed the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just to make it clear,
it's the government's position that under the statute,
if this kindle device where you can read a book which is
campaign advocacy, within the 60-30 day period, if it
comes from a satellite, it's under -- it can be
prohibited under the Constitution and perhaps under this
statute?
MR. STEWART: It -- it can't be prohibited,
but a corporation could be barred from using its general
treasury funds to publish the book and could be required
to use -- to raise funds to publish the book using its
PAC.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If it has one name,
one use of the candidate's name, it would be covered,
correct?
MR. STEWART: That's correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a 500-page
book, and at the end it says, and so vote for X, the
government could ban that?
MR. STEWART: Well, if it says vote for X,
it would be express advocacy and it would be covered by
the pre-existing Federal Election Campaign Act
provision.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I'm talking
about under the Constitution, what we've been
discussing, if it's a book.
MR. STEWART: If it's a book and it is
produced -- again, to leave -- to leave to one side the
question of.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right, right.
Forget the --
MR. STEWART: -- possible media exemption,
if you had Citizens United or General Motors using
general treasury funds to publish a book that said at
the outset, for instance, Hillary Clinton's election
would be a disaster for this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Take my
hypothetical. It doesn't say at the outset. It funds
-- here is -- whatever it is, this is a discussion of
the American political system, and at the end it says
vote for X.
MR. STEWART: Yes, our position would be
that the corporation could be required to use PAC funds
rather than general treasury funds.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And if they didn't,
you could ban it?
MR. STEWART: If they didn't, we could
prohibit the publication of the book using the corporate
treasury funds.
JUSTICE BREYER: I wonder if that's -- I
mean, I take it the answer to the question, can the
government ban labor unions from saying we love this
person, the corporations, we love them, the
environmentalists saying we love them, is of course the
government can't ban that. The only question is, who's
paying for it. And they can make a determination of how
much money the payors can pay, but you can't ban it.
MR. STEWART: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If that's
correct, then I take it the interesting question here
would be -- I don't know if it arises in this case --
suppose there were a kind of campaign literature or --
or advocacy that either a corporation had to pay for it,
it couldn't pay for it through the PAC, because for some
reason -- I don't know, the PAC -- and there's no other
way of getting it to the public -- that would raise a
Constitutional question, wouldn't it?
MR. STEWART: It would raise a
Constitutional --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that present in this
case?
MR. STEWART: It's not present in this case.
I don't think it would raise a difficult constitutional
question because presumably if the reason the
corporation couldn't do it through the PAC -- the only
reason I could think of is that it couldn't find
PAC-eligible donors who were willing to contribute for
this speech. And if that's the case, the corporation
would -- could still be forbidden to use its general
treasury.
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know about that.
But I guess I would be worried if in fact there was some
material that couldn't get through to the public. I
would be very worried. But I don't think I have to
worry about that in this case, do I?
MR. STEWART: That's correct, both because
the question isn't presented here and because
Congress --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but if we accept
your constitutional argument, we're establishing a
precedent that you yourself say would extend to banning
the book, assuming a particular person pays for it.
MR. STEWART: I think the Court has already
held in, both in Austin and in McConnell, that Congress
can or that Congress or State legislatures can prohibit
the use of corporate treasury funds for express
advocacy.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To write a book, to
pay for somebody to write a book?
MR. STEWART: Well, in MCFL, for instance,
the communication was not a book, but it was a
newsletter, it was written material; and the Court held
this was express advocacy for which the use of corporate
treasury funds would ordinarily be banned. It held that
because of the distinctive characteristics of the
particular corporation at issue in that case, MCFL was
entitled to a constitutional exemption. But I think the
clear thrust of MCFL is that the publication and
dissemination of a newsletter containing express
advocacy could ordinarily be banned with respect to the
use of corporate treasury funds.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not just a -- I
suppose a sign held up in Lafayette Park saying vote for
so and so. Under your theory of the Constitution, the
prohibition of that would be constitutional?
MR. STEWART: Again, I do want to make clear
that if by prohibition you mean ban on the use of
corporate treasury funds, then, yes, I think it's
absolutely clear under Austin, under McConnell that the
use of corporate treasury funds could be banned if
General Motors, for instance --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and you -- you get
around the fact that this would extend to any publishing
corporation by saying that there is a media exemption
because the Constitution guarantees not only freedom of
speech but also of the press?
MR. STEWART: Well, there is always --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But does "the press" mean
the media in that Constitutional provision? You think
in 1791 there were -- there were people running around
with fedoras that had press -- little press tickets in
it, "Press"? Is that what "press" means in the
Constitution? Doesn't it cover the Xerox machine?
Doesn't it cover the right of any individual to -- to
write, to publish?
MR. STEWART: Well, I think the difficult
Constitutional question of whether the general
restrictions on use of corporate treasury funds for
electioneering can constitutionally be applied to media
corporations has never had to be addressed because the
statutes that this Court has reviewed have --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't see any
reason why it wouldn't. I'm saying there's no basis in
the text of the Constitution for exempting press in the
sense of, what, the Fifth Estate?
MR. STEWART: In -- in any event, the only
question this Court would potentially need to decide in
this case is whether the exemption for media companies
creates a disuniformity that itself renders the statute
unconstitutional, and the Court has already addressed
that question in McConnell. The claim was made that
because media corporations were exempt, there was
inequality of treatment as between those and other
corporations. And Congress said no, Congress -- I mean,
this Court said no, Congress can protect the interests
of the media and of the public in receiving information
by drawing that line. With respect to your --
JUSTICE SOUTER: To point out how far your
argument would go, what if a labor union paid and
offered to write a book advocating the election of A or
the defeat of B? And after the manuscript was prepared,
they then went to a commercial publisher, and they go to
Random House. Random House said, yes, we will publish
that. Can the distribution of that be in effect subject
to the electioneering ban because of the initial labor
union investment?
MR. STEWART: Well, exactly what the remedy
would be, whether there would be a basis for suppressing
the distribution of the book, I'm not sure. I think
it's clear under --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, does it come within
electioneering because of the initial subvention to the
author?
MR. STEWART: It wouldn't be an
electioneering communication under BCRA because BCRA
wouldn't apply to the print media. Now, it would
potentially be covered by the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: We're -- we're talking
about how far the constitutional ban could go, and we're
talking about books.
MR. STEWART: Well, I -- we would certainly
take the position that if the labor union used its
treasury funds to pay an author to produce a book that
would constitute express advocacy, that that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And the book was then taken
over as a commercial venture by Random House?
MR. STEWART: The labor union's conduct
would be prohibited. The question of whether the book
that had already been --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but prohibition only
comes when we get to the electioneering stage.
MR. STEWART: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. STEWART: The question whether the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So for the -- for the labor
union simply to -- to hire -- is there -- is there an
outright violation when the labor union -- I guess this
is a statutory question: Is there an outright violation
when the labor union comes up with the original
subvention?
MR. STEWART: I guess I would have to study
the Federal Election Campaign Act provisions more
closely to see whether they --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Let's assume for the sake
of argument that they would not be. The subvention is
made, the manuscript is prepared, Random House then
publishes it, and there is a distribution within the --
what is it -- the 60-day period. Is the -- is the
original subvention (a) enough to bring it within the
prohibition on the electioneering communication, and (b)
is that constitutional?
MR. STEWART: Well, again, it wouldn't
qualify as an electioneering communication under BCRA
because that statutory definition only applies --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You're -- you're right. I
stand corrected. If the statute covered that as well,
if the statute covered the book as well.
MR. STEWART: I think the use of labor union
funds, as part of the overall enterprise of writing and
then publishing the book, would be covered.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That would be enough to
bring it in, and --
MR. STEWART: And I -- I don't --
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- the Constitution?
MR. STEWART: And I think it would be
constitutional to forbid the labor union to do that.
Whether it would --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Again, just to
follow up, even if there's one clause in one sentence in
the 600-page book that says, in light of the history of
the labor movement, you should be careful about
candidates like John Doe who aren't committed to it?
MR. STEWART: Well, whether in the context
of a 600-page book that would be sufficient to make the
book either an electioneering communication or express
advocacy --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it does by its
terms, doesn't it? Published within 60 days. It
mentions a candidate for office. What other
qualification is there?
MR. STEWART: Well, I think the Court has
already crossed that bridge in Wisconsin Right to Life
by saying the statute could constitutionally be applied
only if it were the functional equivalent of express
advocacy, and -- so that would be the -- and we accept
that constitutional holding. That would be the relevant
constitutional question.
I wanted to return for a second, Justice
Alito, to a question you asked about the purported
interchangeability of the Internet and television. And
it's certainly true that -- that a growing number of
people are coming to experience those media as
essentially interchangeable, but there are still a lot
of people either who don't have computers at all or who
use their televisions and their computers for
fundamentally different purposes. And I think it's
evident that Citizens United perceived the two media to
be distinct because it was willing to pay $1.2 million
to a cable service in order to have the film made
available on -- by Video On Demand, when Citizens United
could have posted the film on its own Web site, posted
the film on YouTube and could have avoided both the need
to make the payment and the potential applicability of
the electioneering communications provisions.
JUSTICE ALITO: If they had done either of
the things you just mentioned, putting it on its Web
site or putting it on YouTube, your position would be
that the Constitution would permit the prohibition of
that during the period prior to the primary or the
election?
MR. STEWART: Our position is not that the
Constitution would permit it. Our position is that BCRA
wouldn't prohibit it because those are not covered
media. Now --
JUSTICE ALITO: Would the Constitution -- if
-- if BCRA -- if Congress in the next act covered that
in light of advances in the Internet, would the
Constitution permit that?
MR. STEWART: Yes, I mean, the Court in
McConnell upheld on the electioneering communications on
their face, and this Court -- a majority of this Court
in Wisconsin Right to Life said those provisions are
constitutional as applied --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I'm a little
disoriented here, Mr. Stewart. We are dealing with a
constitutional provision, are we not, the one that I
remember which says Congress shall make no law abridging
the freedom of the press? That's what we're
interpreting here?
MR. STEWART: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. STEWART: But, again, this -- the Court
obviously has grappled in the past with the question of
how to apply that provision to use of corporate treasury
funds either for express electoral advocacy or its
functional equivalent --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In -- in this case, Mr.
Stewart, I take it -- correct me if I'm wrong -- that
you think the distinction the Petitioner draws between
the 90-minute film and the -- and the short 30-second or
1-minute ad is a baseless distinction?
MR. STEWART: It is of no constitutional
significance. Congress certainly could have drafted the
electioneering communication definition.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So if -- if we think that
the application of this to a 90-minute film is
unconstitutional, then the whole statute should fall
under your view --
MR. STEWART: Well, I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- because there's no
distinction between the two?
MR. STEWART: Well, I think the Court has
twice upheld the statute as applied to communications
that are the functional equivalent of express advocacy.
So --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I'm -- I'm saying if
we -- if we think that this is -- that this film is
protected, and you say there's no difference between the
film and the ad, then the whole statute must be declared
--
MR. STEWART: It would depend on the ground
under which you reached the conclusion that the film was
protected. If you disagreed with our submission and
said there is a constitutional difference between
90-minute films and 60-second advertisements, then
obviously you could draw that constitutional line. If
you concluded that they're all the same but they're all
protected, then obviously we would lose both cases.
But, again, you would have to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you want us to say
they're both the same? You want -- you argue that
they're both the same.
MR. STEWART: That's correct. Now, it may
be the case -- it may be rarer to find a 90-minute film
that is so unrelenting in its praise or criticism of a
particular candidate that it will be subject to no
reasonable interpretation other than to vote for or
against that person, but when you have that, as I think
we do here, there's no constitutional distinction
between the 90-minute film and the 60-second
advertisement.
And we would stress with respect to the film
that what makes this, in our view, an easy case is not
simply that the film repeatedly criticizes Hillary
Clinton's character and integrity. The clincher is that
the film repeatedly links Senator Clinton's purported
character flaws to her qualifications for president.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But just from the
standpoint of literature, that's very odd. Suppose you
have a film which is quite moving with scenery and music
and magnificent acting, and the subtle message that may
be far more effective in advocating, and everyone knows
that. Everyone knows that.
MR. STEWART: That's essentially the
argument that a majority of this Court rejected in
Wisconsin Right to Life. That is, that was part of the
basis on which Congress enacted BCRA, part of the reason
that it wanted to establish a purely objective test
based on naming an identified candidate and airing in
proximity to the election. Congress recognized that in
many situations the most effective advocacy is the
subtler advocacy.
And the lead opinion in Wisconsin Right to
Life said -- I think recognized -- that it will
foreseeably be the case that corporations will craft
advertisements that are, in fact, intended to influence
federal elections, but that are sufficiently subtle and
opaque that they won't constitute the functional
equivalent of express advocacy. And -- and the lead
opinion simply said that's the price that we have to pay
in order to ensure that an unduly broad range of
corporate speech is not restricted.
And we accept that holding, but in this case
what we have, people may feel -- it is not subtle.
People may feel that because it's not subtle, it's less
likely to be effective. But the Court's decisions have
never drawn a Constitutional line between advocacy that
is likely to be effective and advocacy that is not.
Clearly, if this were express advocacy -- I
think clearly, if the -- the narrator had said in the
first 30 seconds of the film: A Hillary Clinton
presidency would pose a danger to the country, it's
important for all citizens to vote against Hillary
Clinton, what follows are extended analyses of episodes
in her past that reflect Hillary Clinton's unsuitability
for that office. And if then in the last 89 minutes of
the film the film-maker had made no overt reference to
the upcoming election but had simply given a negative
portrayal of Hillary Clinton, the person, that would be
express advocacy that would be proscribable even without
regard to BCRA. So that if --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even though that
type of case was never presented to the Court in
McConnell and was never presented to Congress when it
considered BCRA?
MR. STEWART: Well, it's not clear whether
it was presented to Congress or not. It is certainly
true that it was not the focus of congressional
attention. But we know from the definition of
"electioneering communication" what attributes Congress
wanted to make relevant to the coverage determination.
That is, it chose to restrict this to broadcast, cable,
and satellite communications and to leave out the print
media.
It chose to restrict it to advertisements or
other communications that were aired within a specific
proximity to the election. If it had been unconcerned
with communications over a certain length, it could
certainly have made that part of the statutory
definition, but it chose not to do that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This film has been
compared to "Fahrenheit 911," which had the pervasive
message that President Bush was unsuited to be
President. And so if that film had been financed out of
corporate -- corporations' general treasury funds and
put on an election channel, that would similarly be
banned by the statute.
MR. STEWART: I am afraid I am not familiar
enough with that film to know whether it would have
constituted -- to -- to make an informed judgment about
whether that would have constituted the functional
equivalent of express advocacy under Wisconsin Right to
Life. And, of course, the "electioneering
communication" definition would apply only if the film
had been broadcast within a specified proximity to a
primary or general election in -- in 2004. But I think
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Stewart, do you think
that there's a possibility that the First Amendment
interest is greater when what the government is trying
to stifle is not just a speaker who wants to say
something but also a hearer who wants to hear what the
speaker has to say?
I mean what is somewhat different about this
case is that unlike over-the-air television you have a
situation where you only get this -- this message would
only air -- if somebody elects to hear it. So you
really have two interested people, the speaker and the
listener who wants to -- who wants to get this.
Isn't that a somewhat heightened First
Amendment interest than just over-the-air broadcasting
of advertising which probably most listeners don't want
to hear?
MR. STEWART: Well, I think -- I think the
-- first of all, I think if we had tried to make the
argument in McConnell that the BCRA provisions -- or --
or in any other case that the BCRA provisions are
constitutional as applied to 30- or 60-second
advertisements because they are defensible means of
protecting listeners who, by hypothesis, don't want to
hear the message in the form of a captive audience, I
don't think we would have gotten very far.
I think it's certainly true that people have
a wide variation of attitudes towards campaign
advertisements. Some of them find them irritating, and,
of course, they can hit the mute button or -- or leave
the room, or in the case of people who use TiVo or VCRs
can simply fast-forward through them.
But the whole premise of the congressional
regulation and the whole premise of the corporations'
willingness to spend these massive amounts of money was
that enough people will be interested in the
advertisements that they will ultimately have an
electoral effect. And -- and so if you compare the--
the film to the advertisement, the advertisements in one
sense you could say are a less effective mechanism
because a lot of the people who reach them are unwilling
listeners or uninterested. But, on the other hand,
they're more effective because they reach more people.
The -- the flip side is that with a film you
reach a smaller audience. It is certainly a more
limited group of people who will sign up to receive the
movie, but they are more interested in the message. I
don't think you can operate on the hypothesis that there
is no --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are talking about
effectiveness. That wasn't my point. My point was the
-- the seriousness of the First Amendment interest
that's being impinged where -- where you have both
somebody who wants to speak and someone who
affirmatively wants to hear what he has to say, and the
government says, no, the two of you can't do this.
MR. STEWART: Well, I think it was --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't you think that's
somewhat worse than the government just saying to
somebody who wants to speak, no, you can't speak?
MR. STEWART: I think it would be impossible
to divide media up in that way based on the relative
likelihood that the recipient of the message will want
to hear it. With respect to the -- the newsletters in
MCFL, for instance, on the one -- in many instances they
were made available in public places. They were also
mailed to a variety of people. You could say --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I am not saying will --
will want. I mean you have a situation here where you
don't get it unless you take the initiative to
subscribe. I'm not -- I'm not trying to figure out
person by person who wants to hear it and who doesn't.
Here you have a medium in which somebody listens only if
that person wants to listen. So the -- the person
speaking wants to speak, and the person hearing wants to
hear. It seems to me that's a stronger -- a stronger
First Amendment interest.
MR. STEWART: Well, the potential viewers in
this case had other alternatives if they wanted to see
the film. The film was available --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was -- was this issue
aired before the three-judge court, the distinction
between, say, putting something on network TV and
putting something on View On Demand that the listener
has to opt into?
MR. STEWART: No. Indeed, the appellant in
its complaint simply alleged affirmatively that his
communication, if aired on DVD -- I mean if aired on VOD
would fall within the statutory definition of
"electioneering communication."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, before you
run out here, can I -- we haven't talked about the
disclosure requirements yet. You understand the test to
be that disclosure is not required if the names of those
disclosed -- if those people would be reasonably subject
to reprisals?
MR. STEWART: That's correct. This Court
has recognized a constitutional exemption for two
disclosure requirements in cases where disclosure would
have a reasonable likelihood of leading to reprisal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do we apply that
test? Is it inconceivable to you here that people
contributing to such a clearly anti-Clinton
advertisement are not going to be subject to reprisals?
MR. STEWART: It seems unlikely that
reprisals would occur because Citizens United -- this is
obviously a new film, but it is of a piece with
communications that Citizens United has engaged in.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That doesn't work,
because maybe they are going to change the nature of the
documentaries that they fund, or somebody who gave a
contribution 5 years ago may decide, boy, I don't like
what they're doing. I'm not going to give anymore. It
--
MR. STEWART: I guess the point I was going
to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The fact that
they've disclosed in the past by compulsion of law
doesn't seem to answer the question of whether they are
going to be subject to reprisals.
MR. STEWART: Well, the point was that they
have disclosed in the past and have provided no evidence
of reprisals. But I think the Court's decisions are
clear that the burden is on the organization to show a
reasonable likelihood, at least to -- to set the -- the
ball in motion. And the three-judge district court here
said essentially what this Court said in McConnell with
regard to a variety of plaintiffs who included Citizens
United. That is, the Court said in McConnell and the
three-judge district court here that the plaintiffs had
made vague allegations of the general possibility of
reprisals but had offered no concrete evidence that
their own members --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that seems to me
you are saying they've got to wait until the -- the
horse is out of the barn. You can only prove that you
are reasonably subject to reprisals once you've been the
victim of reprisals.
MR. STEWART: Well, I think the alternatives
would be to say that disclosure requirements are
categorically unconstitutional, which would be an
extreme departure from this Court's prior precedents or
--
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That is saying --
that is saying that the test in McConnell is unworkable,
if you say the alternative is to say they are
categorically --
MR. STEWART: No. I mean I think the -- if
the -- we think the test in McConnell is workable; that
is, leave it up to the organization to establish
particularized proof of a reasonable likelihood of
reprisal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If the Boy Scouts
run an ad and they're subject to disclosure, are the
donors who support that ad reasonably subject to
reprisals.
MR. STEWART: I mean, it would depend to
some extent on the characteristics of the ad. Probably
not, but I think if the alternative -- the two
alternatives to the approach that the Court has taken
previously would be first to say these requirements are
unconstitutional across the board; or the Court could
say as applied to organizations that engage in
especially intemperate or extreme speech of the sort
that might seem more likely to subject its proponents to
reprisal, the disclosure requirements are categorically
unconstitutional there.
I think that would be itself an anomalous
and counterproductive content-based distinction if the
mere fact of the extremity of your speech insolated you
from a constitutional -- from a requirement that would
otherwise be constitutional.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before you sit down,
any other? Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Olson, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
It is unquestionably the case that the
government takes the position that any form of
expression, of expressive advocacy can be prohibited if
it's done by a corporation. They say that on page 25
and 26 of their brief, whether it be books, yard signs,
newspapers or -- or something printed -- in printed
form, and it's only because Congress decided to address
the most acute problem that they haven't -- Congress
didn't go ahead and decide to do that, which we submit
would raise very, very serious constitutional questions,
the same type of constitutional questions that we are
talking about here, and that --
JUSTICE BREYER: I agree with you about
that, but I thought what saves this -- many people
thought it doesn't save it, it's -- whole thing's
unconstitutional, whole Act. That isn't what I thought.
So what saves this is of course you can't prohibit all
those things. What you do is put limitations on the
payment for them. See that there are other ways of
paying through it, say as PACs, and then limit very
carefully the media that are affected and the times for
which they are affected. Now, that's the statute
reforms, and it's I think you need to address.
MR. OLSON: Precisely, and the five justices
in Wisconsin Right to Life made the fact that the PAC
mechanism is burdensome and expensive. There are briefs
in this case that demonstrate how much it is. And the
-- and it's easier if you have lots of money, if you are
a big corporation, and you can afford a PAC or you
already have one. So it's a burden on the least capable
of communicating.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Olson, can I ask this
question? Coming up with Wisconsin Right to Life, Judge
Randolph thought the Chief Justice's opinion in that
case was controlling in that case. Do you think the
Chief Justice's opinion in that case correctly stated
the law?
MR. OLSON: Of course.
(Laughter.)
MR. OLSON: By definition.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Good answer.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE STEVENS: I want to be sure because
you're -- sometimes I don't think you're quite saying
that. But you agree that that opinion is correct?
MR. OLSON: What I am saying is I -- we
accept the Court's decision in Wisconsin Right to Life.
To the extent that the Court did not get to this type of
documentary where the issue distinction, the false
dichotomy between issues and candidates --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you accept the test
that was stated in his opinion?
MR. OLSON: The -- the -- that no
reasonable, not reasonably susceptible to any other
interpretation? Of course we do, Justice Stevens, but
we submit, a 90-minute discussion of various different
issues are subject to all kinds of interpretation, and
when you get a long exposition of issues that are
important to the public and someone says -- the
government says, it's going to be -- well, we can
prohibit it, and by the way, the government says, well,
when we mean prohibit we mean, you just can't use your
union, or corporate treasury funds -- what they mean by
prohibit is that they will put you in jail if you do it.
They will put you in jail for five years. That means
prohibited.
Now, what -- what we're getting at here,
when -- when you're trying to make a 90-minute movie
that discusses things that are important to the public
during an election of the highest officer of the United
States, many people will interpret that as critical;
many people will interpret it as supportive; there are
things all over the lot. So it's subject to lots of
different interpretations.
The other thing is I heard Justice -- I mean
Mr. Stewart say that there's one minute at the
beginning, it doesn't happen -- it doesn't matter what
the other 89 minutes are; we can prohibit it. Well,
where is the person making a movie who wants to address
the American public about something that's important to
the American public -- there isn't any question about
that -- where does he edit his movie? What cuts? What
does he leave on the drawing -- on the cutting room
floor so that he won't have to go to bail -- jail? He
won't dare take a chance.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:11 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
56:18 11:12 28:12 alternatives 38:18 40:8 36:8
advocacy 10:13 52:11 52:14 39:10 48:17
11:9 17:25 4:14 6:17 14:1 37:14 avoided 39:12
43:23 21:22,22 24:12 28:2,4,8 46:4 36:1 40:19 a.m 1:14 3:2
24:16 27:11,15 46:16 48:3 45:24 50:2 56:17
31:13 Amendment's arena 11:22 B
36:9 38:11,20 America 8:3 arguing 16:12 35:11 37:10
29:22 43:11,12,19 19:21 30:15 2:2,7 3:4,7 background
40:1 44:2,3,4,15 56:9,10 4:17,21 6:8,12 21:2
45:22 53:7 amounts 8:4 8:21 14:14 bad 12:16,17,21
4:9 48:6 49:13 21:1 37:5 43:5 ban 8:14,21
24:16,17 afraid 45:18 52:19 arguments 9:2 30:21 31:2,5,7
52:5,6 ago 6:20 50:13 answer 6:14 17:15,16 33:17 35:15
agree 8:18 13:21 7:19 8:10 9:8 arises 31:11 36:4
54:2 54:24 54:20 asked 38:24 45:17
ahead 12:10 answered 8:9 asking 7:16 banning 28:2
air 25:8 46:12 50:4 27:25 barn 51:12
45:6 49:8,14 appeal 20:18 assume 37:4 based 43:9
24:21,22 airwaves 15:10 APPEARAN... attempting 19:4 basis 22:7 34:18
42:16 Alito 26:17 1:15 19:4 35:18 43:7
50:5 27:12,20,25 appellant 49:12 attention 14:21 BCRA 4:23
22:12 allegations 51:7 appendix 7:4,24 attitudes 47:4 37:13 39:22
25:6 alleged 49:13 applicability attributes 44:25 40:1 43:7
41:25 allowing 5:7 39:13 audience 47:1 44:16,20 46:21
45:5 allows 28:2 application 4:5 47:21 46:22
20:10 28:24 45:2,25 26:5 31:11,21 51:10,20 52:4 Commission 1:7
broadcasting 31:22 32:3,10 52:24 53:4 3:5
3:8 burden 4:4 13:2 40:22 42:9,18 choice 14:24 Committee 4:25
53:3 16:17,21 17:18 43:15,23 44:18 19:9 21:21 12:2
28:2 buy 26:8 42:3 49:25 cited 5:16 33:1 35:25
categorically cites 5:16 37:10,13 38:10
29:3,10 C 51:17,23 52:17 citizens 1:3 3:4 41:4 44:25
30:1 C 2:1 3:1 category 13:1 21:11 30:8 45:24 49:14,16
cable 26:1,19 certain 26:4 39:7,10 44:8 communicatio...
28:24 39:9 45:8 50:7,9 51:4 10:21 16:22
35:10,19 45:2 certainly 25:2,7 claim 35:1 28:24 39:14
call 5:6 25:16 26:14 clause 38:4 40:5 41:13
38:5 campaign 10:13 36:6 39:1 41:3 clear 29:1 33:8 45:3,6,8 50:9
10:22 11:2,9 44:22 45:9 33:16,19 35:20 companies
53:9 27:9,13 29:4 chance 56:14 clearly 44:4,5 compare 47:14
37:2 47:4 channel 7:13 client 9:5 compelling 4:6
21:10,16 23:8 characteristics 42:20,21 44:10 3:14 6:15
12:11 24:19 26:7 33:5 52:9 close 18:25 compulsion
14:7 38:14 42:11 characterizati... closely 37:3 50:19
30:25 43:9 21:24 come 26:8 35:21 computers 39:4
32:6 candidates characterized comedy 9:16 39:5
12:19,19 20:5 17:24 21:20 conceal 7:25
53:9 29:14 19:7 24:2,4,8 54:12 conceding 20:10
case 3:4,16 5:17 33:12 38:3,12 13:22 15:11 concluded 42:2
26:21 27:6 55:17 18:7,15,20,25 debate 4:13
34:4,12 36:4 9:2 20:3 27:19 25:20 28:25 50:13 53:13
6:4,5 14:1 41:2,24 42:1 31:13,25 32:3 35:5 38:16 25:20 26:12
16:6,10 42:14 44:2 33:6,24 53:8 40:4,6,6,17 55:1
17:2 46:23 49:24 54:8 41:12 43:5 decisions 27:11
22:4 52:22,23 53:14 corporations 44:18 49:8,23 44:1 50:24
53:15 7:8 8:3,8 27:21 51:2,3,5,6 declared 41:19
24:25 constitutionally 28:6 31:3 52:11,13 55:2 defeat 35:11
26:18 34:14 38:18 34:15 35:2,4 court's 14:21,22 defensible 46:24
32:13 construction 43:15 45:15 26:12 27:11 definitely 4:19
35:4 26:15 47:10 44:1 50:24 definition 4:13
40:1,12 construe 17:10 correct 7:5 51:18 55:1 25:24,25 37:14
43:7,10 contained 28:16 29:15,16 31:8 cover 34:8,9 41:4 44:24
containing 33:9 31:10 32:11 coverage 45:1 45:10,24 49:15
contains 27:24 36:17 40:15,23 covered 17:8 54:19
44:23 18:14 54:24 23:17 26:11 15:10 26:22
contention corrected 37:16 29:14,21 36:2 39:10 49:10
content-based corruption 4:11 39:23 40:1 54:6
38:8 counsel 15:6 creates 34:24 Department
44:20 contributing 52:25 56:15 critical 55:25 departure 51:18
contribution counterprodu... criticisms 15:24 24:21 41:21
6:24,25 7:2,6 counts 26:8 cunning 11:5 describing 9:22
contributors course 21:3 cutting 56:12 31:6 45:1
23:17 controlling 9:25 45:23 47:6 D dichotomy 55:4
27:1 15:15 54:14 53:21 54:17 D 3:1 difference 9:20
28:12 core 4:3 55:9 danger 44:7 9:21 12:15
33:14 corporate 5:7,20 court 1:1,13 dare 23:11 15:7 21:25
34:8,19 5:21 6:10,23 3:10 5:16 6:1 56:14 26:21 41:18,24
39:18,22 7:1,2 27:10,18 6:19 9:22,24 day 12:4 14:8 different 11:23
40:3 30:23 32:21 10:1,11,15,16 29:4 13:23 14:13
55:10 disuniformity 35:14 47:14 31:4 existing 28:21
34:24 effective 22:12 episodes 44:9 expenditure
14:18 documentaries 47:16,19 24:20 expensive 3:14
19:14 25:13 50:12 effectiveness equivalent 54:5
34:11 documentary 48:2 17:24 18:6,13 experience 39:2
documentation 25:11,11 26:23 38:19 40:21 17:24,25 18:3
Doe 38:7 39:4,15 40:20 45:22 21:22 24:12,16
52:5,17 doing 15:20 election 1:6 3:5 errs 17:13 27:11,14 28:17
dollars 7:14 19:20 20:2,14 ESQ 1:16,18 2:3 33:3,9 36:9
52:6 29:22 30:10 essentially 39:3 41:14 43:19
13:11 drafted 41:3 44:13 45:7,16 8:5 15:19 43:8 expressive 53:7
25:10 draw 5:11,14 46:1 55:24 52:1 extend 32:16
55:10 26:18 42:1 electioneering established 7:10 33:23
driving 9:11 37:10,13 38:10 evenhanded 52:15
DVDs 3:22 41:4 44:25 23:4
D.C 1:9,16,19 elections 11:14 evidence 16:14 face 3:24 40:6
15:11 E 2:1 3:1,1 47:14 evident 39:7 19:6 32:7
22:2,3,4 earlier 10:24 Electric 3:20 evolution 25:20 33:23 43:16
40:24 earmark 20:4 13:7 exactly 9:21 50:18 52:21
42:14 earmarks 20:8 elects 46:12 10:14 35:17 54:4
52:20 easier 19:16 enacted 25:25 example 6:24 factor 5:10
54:7 43:7 9:19 20:15 factors 15:20
educate 15:22 ensure 43:21 exempting factual 18:1
35:14,19 educates 9:23 entire 19:21 exemption 45:12
15:16 entitled 23:19 27:24 30:7 fair 21:24
51:2,6 effect 5:6,20,22 environmenta... 49:24 fall 11:2 13:1
49:15 48:3 49:3 33:18,20 34:13 53:6 55:14,15 30:10 42:19
47:2 five 13:23 54:3 11:3 23:3 28:1 13:11 21:2
flaws 42:22 G 3:1 grant 12:23 hit 47:6
26:4 27:9 focus 15:7 44:23 9:3,4,11 13:6,7 greater 23:20 holds 11:23,23
37:2 focused 25:6 13:7 29:9 30:8 28:7 46:5 home 3:25 22:13
follow 22:2 38:4 30:9,19 32:4 ground 41:21 horse 51:12
21:12 forbidden 9:12 George 3:20 4:15 36:11 37:6
23:4 form 3:24 4:5 10:2,16,19 36:22 37:1
6:10 20:22,23 20:9,20 21:17 50:16 I
forth 26:19 given 7:24 44:13 H ideologically
four 53:1 gives 17:13 half 13:16,17 4:10
39:9 freedom 3:13 giving 8:3 hand 47:18 imaginary 8:18
40:25 4:25 14:2 28:5 go 12:10 13:14 happen 14:3 imagine 20:19
33:25 40:13 13:16 20:16 56:6 impinged 48:4
freely 3:21 23:6 35:9,12 happening 21:5 important 5:10
44:6 functional 17:24 36:4 53:13 harbor 12:8,9 7:19 44:8
45:11,14 18:2,6,13,19 56:13 Hawaii 21:10 55:13,23 56:9
47:15 23:7,8,10 going 6:15 12:12 hear 3:3 46:7,12 impossible
49:6,6 24:11,16,20 50:5,11,14,16 46:18 47:1 48:12
27:14 28:17 50:21 55:14 48:6,15,23 included 51:4
41:14 43:18 12:20 54:20 heard 56:4 3:14 18:23
fund 50:12 government 4:4 hearing 49:1 50:3
47:5 fundamentally 8:21 12:8 13:2 23:23 46:15 5:1 12:3 17:20
13:25 funds 27:18 16:13,21,24 33:4,13 12:1 34:9
23:23 29:10,11 30:9 17:1,18 23:9 highest 3:19 individuals 7:22
44:6 30:13,18,19,24 29:19 31:2,5 10:8 55:24 8:1,7
32:21 33:4,11 46:5 48:7,10 Hillary 20:17 inequality 35:3
38:25 40:2 8:17 9:1,7,10 14:18 28:10,19 45:8
56:1 10:19 11:1,11 41:5,10,16 liar 11:7
24:18 28:18 12:11 13:4,18 key 25:23 lie 11:4
13:15,20 interpretations 15:22 16:2,3,8 19:22 23:18,21 10:9,12,24
19:22 56:3 17:4,7,15,22 31:12 12:2 15:15
interpreted 19:6 18:5,10 19:7 kindle 28:20 17:13 20:12
19:1 40:14 20:20 21:13,17 kinds 13:4 20:24 27:7 38:17
interviews 13:11 24:1,2,4,8,23 13:19 25:19 55:1
32:25 invited 23:22 30:5,12,20,25 Kollar-Kotelly 50:1 51:1 52:2
48:16 involve 6:15 31:9,20 32:6 6:1 11:11 limit 53:24
issue 10:1,4,13 35:8,21 36:3 L limitations 5:7
issued 18:25 39:15,25 40:9 36:20,22,24 limiting 26:19
19:18 19:14 20:7 41:10,16 42:5 lacking 11:7 15:17 26:18
43:16 55:4,11,12 42:23 44:17 Lafayette 33:13 35:7 42:1 44:2
23:6 55:18,19 50:18 51:10,20 law 14:1 19:2 listener 23:22
John 38:7 53:17 54:11,20 50:19 54:16 listeners 46:17
14:5 46:5 Jones 8:20 9:14 56:4,15 43:13,19 listens 48:24
48:3 9:14,14 11:19 justices 19:3 leading 50:1 literature 31:12
Judge 6:1 54:12 54:3 leap-frog 22:17 42:24
47:12,23 jurisdiction 54:13,15 45:3 47:6 52:1 long 11:20 12:4
Justice 1:19 3:3 5:17 led 23:13 longer 10:4
33:6,8 48:16 money 8:4 31:7 newsletter 33:2 22:3,10,21
56:2 18:12 19:8 Motors 4:17 5:5 48:15 54:17,19,25
49:14 movie 10:6 21:4 21:15 23:3 ones 7:17 12:17
46:24 55:19 musical 9:15 opinion 6:2,3
47:16 54:5 N obviously 28:8 43:13,20 54:13
17:4,6,9 27:24 28:6 13:9 29:13,14 occur 19:19 50:7 19:12 20:25
30:7 33:24 names 49:20 occurred 19:20 opposition
2:5 24:6 35:2,6 36:1 narrator 44:5 odd 42:24 opt 4:10 15:1
37:6 medium 24:21 13:4 16:24 23:21 35:10 24:6
39:16 10:7 20:13 38:14 ordinarily 33:4
mere 52:21 nature 5:21 okay 7:7 9:1,1 8:23,24 28:11
43:1 45:13 necessary 6:17 36:18 40:16 organizations
14:19 met 16:21 34:22 39:12 5:9,13,24 6:11 original 36:24
18:2,15 million 7:14 54:2 6:19 7:4,8,15 37:9
24:25 39:8 negative 13:13 8:16,23 9:4,9 outright 36:22
minute 21:25 44:13 9:21 10:2,11 36:23
32:19 56:5 network 49:9 10:19 11:10,20 outset 30:10,13
35:1 minutes 8:12,19 never 15:18 13:2,25 14:17 overall 37:19
44:19 9:12 14:12,14 22:19 34:15 15:13 16:1,3 overly 19:23
51:3,5 15:25 21:25 44:2,18,19 16:13 17:6,9 overt 44:12
22:8 44:11 new 50:8 18:5,17 19:11 over-the-air
30:18 29:4 37:8 poses 4:11 31:24 39:18
39:19 position 28:1,11 pretty 27:12 project 7:17
permissible 13:6 29:2 30:17 prevent 21:5 proof 52:2
39:18,22 40:3 positions 20:4 52:12 52:16
14:20 27:4 51:7 29:22 44:15
53:8 permitting possible 8:2,2 price 43:20 protect 19:18
21:23 31:3 potential 28:6 46:1 41:23 42:3
48:25,25 49:1 20:16 34:22 prior 23:10 prove 4:7,8 13:3
45:9 pervasive 45:12 powerful 14:15 pro 4:11 providing 26:22
1:17 2:4,9 3:8 practices 25:4 28:22 46:17 proving 16:17
42:11 phenomenon precedent 32:16 problem 16:25 provision 29:23
pick 16:24 51:18 22:23,25 53:12 provisions 37:2
32:24 place 26:11 premise 47:9,10 produce 36:8 proximity 26:4
39:8 places 48:17 prepared 35:11 produced 30:3 43:10 45:7,25
plaintiffs 51:4,6 37:6 producers 3:24 public 3:20
plurality 24:14 15:23 31:20,22 8:12,13 12:3 13:9,15
11:24 12:10 15:8,9 6:5,6 27:17 32:8 35:6
19:21 23:2,14 26:20 presents 19:15 55:18 56:7 30:23 33:8
39:2,4 35:8 48:2,2 preserve 6:17 prohibited publish 27:19
46:13 50:16,22 presidency 44:7 13:13 19:25 29:10,11 30:9
pointed 15:14 president 21:3 27:22 28:13 34:10 35:13
48:18 21:14 42:22 45:13,14 29:6,8 36:13 published 27:13
50:3 points 4:25 7:5 presidential 53:7 55:20 28:3 38:13
55:25 political 3:11,18 19:20 prohibiting publisher 27:21
4:2,14 5:7 press 28:5,7 16:25 17:14 35:12
21:19 7:10 8:4 11:21 require 27:18 25:10,18 26:6
37:20 R 3:1 21:2 22:5,10 49:20 32:14,23 33:12
raise 29:11 recurring 25:7 52:22 49:17 50:2,10
Randolph 54:13 refers 28:5 52:12,17 robust 4:13
39:6 35:13 36:11 reflected 23:19 reserve 24:2 rule 5:7
53:22 range 43:21 regard 44:16 7:17,21 18:8 52:5
rarer 42:9 51:4 20:22 33:10 running 11:25
reached 41:22 regulated 14:11 Respondent ruthless 11:5
really 16:17,23 relative 48:13 responsibility safe 12:8,9
46:13 45:1 restraint 23:10 sale 26:8 28:13
21:2 reason 15:2 remainder 24:3 restrict 45:2,5 satellite 26:2
31:15,24 32:1 remaining 53:1 restricted 43:22 28:21,24 29:5
24:17 26:15 40:12 restrictions 5:18 saves 53:18,21
14:8 50:1 51:1 52:2 20:16 27:8 return 38:23 saying 10:4 17:7
28:8 55:8 remotely 18:6 reviewed 34:16 19:24 20:1
31:1,5,10 reasonably 24:24 right 6:20,22 21:22 22:7,17
32:12 49:21 51:13 renders 34:24 9:22 10:8,12 22:18,18 27:16
35:1 52:6 55:8 repeatedly 10:24 12:2 27:17 31:2,4
reasons 5:13 42:19,21 15:15 17:12 33:13,24 34:18
40:18 REBUTTAL reply 10:3 20:10,11 24:10 38:18 41:16
54:12 2:7 53:2 Reporter 24:14 24:25 26:10,11 48:10,19 51:11
receive 4:9 Reporters 4:25 26:12 27:7 51:20,21 54:23
received 15:9 reporting 6:23 31:9 34:9 says 12:6 13:22
53:14,15 recipient 48:14 reprisal 50:1 40:7 43:6,13 26:7 28:1
recognized 50:5,7,21,24 Roberts 3:3 15:6 48:7 55:13,14
17:4,7 shown 3:21 5:11,19 6:7,13 statutes 34:16 41:23
23:12 20:13 6:22 7:7 8:10 statutory 16:9 submit 53:13
33:22 shows 12:20 11:1,17,24 17:5,9,15 22:1 55:10
40:9
46:3 47:20 35:8,21 36:3 45:9 49:15 56:18
significance 37:4,15,21,24 step 9:9 substantial
22:9 42:19 43:20 speaker 17:13 25:14,22 26:10 35:22 36:25
44:13 47:8 46:6,8,13 27:3,16,23 37:5,9
34:17 sit 52:24 49:1 29:8,16,20 sufficiently
49:5 site 39:11,17 special 9:2 30:2,7,17,22 43:17
situation 46:11 specific 20:12,13 31:8,18,22 suggesting 12:5
42:21 Smith 8:12,13 6:9 14:2 17:14 39:21 40:4,10 52:6
47:16 13:22,24 43:22 52:15,21 44:21 45:18 33:13 42:24
somebody 32:24 42:24 52:8 56:5 sure 25:14 35:19
somewhat 46:9 54:15 55:6 stronger 49:2,2 24:17 26:15
sort 4:23 6:3 19:5,22 23:16 5:22 28:18 T
40:25 22:25 37:16,17 38:18 52:16 55:11 take 14:9 21:4
31:1,10 think 5:24 7:11 33:4,11,18,20 47:18 6:21
40:23 8:17,24 9:9 34:13 36:8 union 35:9,16 venture 36:11
56:14 10:23 13:19 40:19 45:15 36:7,21,22,24 victim 51:14
18:5,12,17,24 treatment 35:3 55:17 26:22 39:10
23:12 25:17,22 47:3 United 1:1,3,13 41:8 42:18
13:5 31:23 32:1,9 trying 5:24 39:10 50:7,9 viewer 20:14
29:24 32:18 33:7,18 12:13 16:6,6 51:5 55:24 viewers 3:18
48:1
35:19 16:10 18:11 unquestionably 49:4
37:18,25 38:16 19:1 46:5 53:5 viewpoint 12:7
44:5 46:1,3,19 twice 41:13 unsuitability 36:23
52:10,19 54:2 type 13:5 18:2,3 51:21 5:15 16:14,16
49:19 thinking 18:8 53:15 55:2 upheld 40:5 8:20 9:13,13
51:21,25 thorough 14:25 types 16:18,22 41:13 9:13,13,14,14
thought 7:10,19 16:23 22:12 upholding 25:21 11:19 12:13,14
53:4 threat 4:11 U 32:4,21 33:3 22:8,9 24:18
three 7:23 ultimately 47:13 33:11,17,20 29:18,20 30:16
2:3,8 3:7 thrust 14:16 unconstitutio... 47:7 55:16 voted 20:7
33:8 26:13 34:25 voters 20:18
26:25 time 17:21 22:20 understand 6:25 vague 51:7 wait 16:8 51:11
24:3 26:11 14:17 20:21 values 6:18 Wal-Mart 26:6
13:5 TiVo 47:7 understood variation 47:4 14:11 20:23
14:25 today 3:4,16 23:14 variety 5:8 15:3 33:16 42:5,6
16:7,23 17:1
18:9
28:9 3:22 unduly 43:21 various 55:10 wanted 12:15
53:22 treasury 27:18 uninhibited vary 9:19 38:23 43:8
56:2 29:10 30:9,19 4:13 VCRs 47:7 45:1 49:5
48:5,6 35:24 36:1 19 11:4 646 6:3 14:21
37:12 39:23 198,000 7:22
56:8 write 14:11 8
89 44:11 56:7
24:25
2003 18:24
48:2 written 12:8 2008 19:21 90 8:12,19 9:12
31:16 wrong 40:23 22 19:2 14:14 15:25
55:15 24 1:10 2:6 21:25 22:8
x 1:2,8 29:18,20 251 7:5 90-minute 3:18
32:15 yard 53:9 2667 24:13 55:22
40:13 years 3:24 6:20 90-minutes 6:6
13:14 19:4,19 3 911 45:12
YouTube 39:12 30 15:22 16:5
10:8,12 $1,000 7:22
15:15 $1.2 39:8 4
20:11 $200,000 7:12 4 19:19
26:12
38:17 0 5
43:6,13 08 7:13 20:14 5 3:24 13:14
54:4,12 08-205 1:5 3:4 50:13
500 18:25
11:11 56:17 25:6 41:25
34:18 18 11:4 600-page 38:5,9
