IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
FOREST GROVE SCHOOL :
DISTRICT, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-305
T.A. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 28, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:14 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GARY S. FEINERMAN, ESQ., Chicago, Ill.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
DAVID B. SALMONS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington,
D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GARY S. FEINERMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
DAVID B. SALMONS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 25
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondent 45
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GARY S. FEINERMAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:14 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This morning we will
first hear argument in Case 08-305, Forest Grove School
District v. T.A.
Mr. Feinerman.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GARY S. FEINERMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FEINERMAN: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
The 1997 amendments to IDEA prohibit tuition
reimbursement awards for students who are unilaterally
placed in private school without first having received
special education services from the public school
district.
This is so under ordinary principles of
statutory construction and particularly so under the
Spending Clause clear notice rule.
Prior to 1997, IDEA did not expressly
address tuition reimbursement for unilaterally placed
students. In 1997, Congress added section
1412(a)(10)(C). In subsection (i), Congress provided
that when the school district makes a free appropriate
public education available, a FAPE, no reimbursement is
allowed. And then in subsections (ii) through (iv),
Congress addressed situations where courts and hearing
officers may award tuition reimbursement and said that
reimbursement may be allowed where the school district
does not make a FAPE available to a student who
previously received special education services from the
public district. Congress said nothing --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Feinerman, but the --
the first provision that you read, sub (i), says that
there will be no reimbursement if the agency has made a
free appropriate public education available to the child
and the parents elected to place the child in private
school. But that "if" -- if the agency made a free
appropriate public education -- and here, as I
understand it, the school district said that this child
was ineligible for special education.
MR. FEINERMAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So if the child was
entitled to a free appropriate public education and
didn't get it, then under this sub (i), wouldn't the
parents be entitled to tuition reimbursement?
MR. FEINERMAN: No. Subsection (i) covers
students who are provided a free appropriate public
education. Subsections (ii) through (iv) address the
other category of students --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, that's your --
MR. FEINERMAN: -- those who are not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's your construction.
But couldn't this be read to say no reimbursement if --
the word is "if" -- the agency, not -- so the
implication is if the agency did not make a free
appropriate public education available, then --
MR. FEINERMAN: That -- that might be the
implication if there weren't subsection (C)(ii) through
(C)(iv). So it's -- it's T.A.'s argument and the
government's argument that (C)(i) sets forth the general
rule, but if that were the way that -- that Congress
meant the statute to operate, it wouldn't have had any
reason to put in (C)(ii) through (C)(iv) because we
would already know from (C)(i) that tuition
reimbursement was a possibility for students who did not
receive -- previously receive special education services
from the public district.
Congress instead went on in (C)(ii) through
(C)(iv) to address very specifically, in the context of
a comprehensive statutory scheme, when tuition
reimbursement would be available to students who did not
previously receive. And Congress specified, after
essentially being invited to do so in Burlington, which
of those students could get tuition reimbursement. And
the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, (ii) through
(iv) don't -- don't limit or contradict any explicit
requirement of (i).
MR. FEINERMAN: Oh, no. It --
JUSTICE SCALIA: (i) is only at most a
negative implication, which -- which one would not draw
in light of (ii) through (iv), is what you're saying.
MR. FEINERMAN: Yes, that's exactly what I'm
saying. And -- and they deal with different sets of
students. In (i), the school district has made a FAPE
available; in (ii) through (iv), the school district has
not made a FAPE available. And no mention is made of
when a FAPE is not made available to a student who had
not previously received.
And under this Court's decision in
Arlington, because those students like T.A. who had not
previously received, are not mentioned, yet Congress --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then -- then what happens
in a case which I think is like this one, where the
child doesn't receive special education because the
school has determined that the child is not eligible?
So the child isn't getting public education, and in the
parents' view, confirmed by experts, the child is in
need of special education, can't get it from the public
schools, because they declared the child ineligible.
What is such a parent to do?
MR. FEINERMAN: If -- if it's an incorrect
determination by the school district, the problem is
remedied rather quickly. There are very tight time
frames in IDEA --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, the parents here
didn't -- didn't run off to a private school only after
the school district had found that their child didn't
require any special education, did they?
MR. FEINERMAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: They -- they put him in a
private school without even consulting the schools.
MR. FEINERMAN: Right. And then only after
the fact went to the school district and asked for --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Saying by the way, we can
get some money. How much -- how much money are you
talking about imposing on the school district here?
MR. FEINERMAN: Well, it's -- the tuition is
$5,200 a month.
JUSTICE SCALIA: A month?
MR. FEINERMAN: Yes, and then there's a
$5,200 alumni services fee, a $1,500 interview fee. But
let's --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Feinerman, can we go
back to the time frame again? I've just got a question
of fact. I should know this, but I don't. You said
that if the -- if the parents and the school district
disagree, it can be remedied fairly quickly because
there's a fairly tight schedule set for the
administrative procedure. What I don't remember, and my
question is this: When the administrative steps have
been exhausted, if there is still disagreement, is there
any limit on the time in which the -- the judicial
appeal has to be resolved?
MR. FEINERMAN: No, there isn't. So --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't that the -- isn't
that the kicker here? In other words, I -- I fully
understand your -- your textual argument. I -- I can
see its soundness as a possibility that is open to us
and, perhaps on the face of it, the most likely
possibility, but there is a cost, and the cost, it seems
to me, is that once you get into the -- once you get
into appeals, this thing can go on for years, and you
can't wait years when -- when a kid is in this kind of
condition.
MR. FEINERMAN: That's correct, but there's
no need to wait years. Let's assume that parents
actually went through the process appropriately, unlike
T.A.'s parents --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if you can explain
what the process is --
MR. FEINERMAN: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- because Justice Scalia
said the parents just went away. The school at an
earlier point said this child was ineligible for special
education, isn't that so? I think --
MR. FEINERMAN: That's correct. That was in
2001, and the district judge, at --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. FEINERMAN: -- at page 39 of the
petition to the -- of the appendix to the petition, page
39 note 3, the district judge noted that the 2001
evaluation is an appropriate part of this case. But for
this -- for the parents who try and get their student --
get their student evaluated, the school district says,
"No. The child is ineligible"; and then the parents --
at that point, the timing kicks in. The parents can ask
for a due process hearing the next day. Under the time
periods that were in place when T.A.'s case was going
through --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that hearing --
MR. FEINERMAN: -- the hearing officer --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that hearing on
eligible or not, or is it on what the IEP should be?
MR. FEINERMAN: Well, it's --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When the school said not
eligible, is there -- is that question resolved first
before we ever get to the IEP?
MR. FEINERMAN: I think, in a situation
where the school district finds the child ineligible and
there is an appeal, both the eligibility and the
appropriate placement are decided in front of the
hearing officer. And there was a 45-day time period at
the time T.A.'s case went through for the hearing
officer to make a decision. And then after that, it's
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, wouldn't the school
say, we -- we have no obligation to get up an IEP until
the question of eligibility is determined?
MR. FEINERMAN: I suppose if the school
district were to get a stay of the hearing officer's
decision pending appeal to the district court. But
that's not what happened here. What happened here is
that the hearing officer decided on June -- January 26,
2004, that T.A. was eligible. On February 19th, quicker
than the 30 days allowed, Forest Grove School District
proposed an IEP that could have started as soon as
possible thereafter, as the regulations require.
So you are talking about a very tight -- I
understand the situation that you are hypothesizing,
Justice Ginsburg, but we are talking about a very tight
turnaround in T.A.'s case, 75 days, which is a matter of
weeks, not a matter of years as was the case in
Burlington.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What happens when we get to
court?
MR. FEINERMAN: Excuse me?
JUSTICE SOUTER: What happens when we get to
court? Isn't that when it turns into a matter of years?
MR. FEINERMAN: It turns into a matter of
years, but in the interim this school district, Forest
Grove School District, while it was litigating in the
district court, Forest Grove School District offered an
IEP, and at that point T.A.'s parents could have tried
the IEP out, sent the child to receive services in the
public school district --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The IEP -- they did the
IEP after the hearing officer was finished?
MR. FEINERMAN: Yes. Less than 4 weeks
after the hearing officer was finished, Forest Grove
offered an IEP, and that's in the addendum to our reply
brief.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. But I think we've
got to assume that Congress has some concern for the
parents who correctly say, this IEP is no good, it just
can't be done in the school system, and the kid needs a
special school. In that case, maybe -- your answer may
be that's the exceptional case and it shouldn't drive
the -- the inferences to be drawn about congressional
intent. But in that case, if the district and the
parents are at good faith loggerheads it can go on for a
long, long time, can't it?
MR. FEINERMAN: It can go on for a long,
long time if the parents file for a due process hearing,
and that it can --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but they get the due
process hearing. The ultimate result is that the school
proposes an IEP; the parents, based on what their
experts tell them, say that isn't going to work, and the
parents say the only way we can educate this kid without
his falling behind more is to put him in a private
school. At that point, with assuming good faith here,
it seems to me you get into court and it can go on for a
long time, if we accept your -- your analysis of the
text.
MR. FEINERMAN: But all the parents have to
do in that situation is to give the IEP a try and send
their child to public school.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but doesn't that get
to the point of something pretty formalistic? I mean,
somebody in the brief said, given one day under the IEP
and the -- if you win, ultimately the check can be
written. That can't be right.
MR. FEINERMAN: I don't think one day could
be right. The statute says -- it -- it expressly says
"who previously received special" -- "special education
service under the authority of a public agency." It
doesn't say how long it has to be.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe -- I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I remember, perhaps
incorrectly, from the prior argument here that the
period that they had to try out the school plan was ten
days?
MR. FEINERMAN: That -- that's a
discretionary factor that courts and hearing officers
can -- it's not a hard and fast rule.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not a hard and fast
rule.
MR. FEINERMAN: But I think it's probably
good as a general benchmark.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is that -- is
that a period that your client's prepared to accept?
MR. FEINERMAN: Yes, so long as -- in the
ordinary case, ten days would -- it's in the statute, so
we have that textual indication. And it will provide
the school district a chance to provide services under
the IEP.
And as this Court mentioned in a prior case,
IEP's -- it's not an exact science and when you look at
it on a piece of paper it's hard to know whether it's
going to work or not. The way you find out whether it
works is where the rubber hits the road and it could be
that the parents look at IEP and say, you know what, I
don't think this is going to work. But until you
actually give it a chance to work -- maybe the child
goes in and -- and works with the special education
teacher or the instructional assistant and they really
hit it off.
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that's
realistic? If the parents are convinced going in that
this is an inappropriate IEP and they send the child to
school for ten days under the IEP, at the end of the ten
days they are going to say, oh, well, we've completely
changed our mind, now we think this is a good plan?
MR. FEINERMAN: It's certainly plausible
under certain circumstances. It -- it may not happen
every time. And it may not happen half the time.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't it also plausible
that the district will say, ten days is not a fair trial
for this system, this is a child with severe learning
disabilities and to give this IEP a fair chance we need
ten months?
MR. FEINERMAN: At that point those
arguments can be made under (C)(iii) and (C)(iv) because
at that point the child would no -- the parents would no
longer be categorically barred from seeking tuition
reimbursement and those are arguments that you can make
to the hearing officer.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But you are basically
saying that the -- that the only necessary delay in
order to satisfy a condition for eligibility, if the
parents otherwise prevail, is a ten-day delay. That's
basically your answer?
MR. FEINERMAN: I -- I don't think I'm
saying that. I'm saying --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This school does not have
to come up with an IEP. It could tough it out and say,
we're going to rest on our belief that this child does
not need any special education, right? And unless the
school proposes an IEP, the parent cannot come within
subsection (2) by sending the kid to get the special
services.
MR. FEINERMAN: I think that assumes that
the school district is not going to abide by the order
of the independent hearing officer. And in this -- in
our case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What about before? The
whole point is that under the words of the statute as
you interpret it, there is a condition predicate that
has to be satisfied. So, to say that -- to answer by
saying, well, that assumes they won't obey the hearing
officer, what about before the hearing even takes place?
MR. FEINERMAN: Right. Before the hearing
takes place, there is 45 days, and then well, the
hearing -- there's a request for a due process hearing,
the hearing officer has 45 days, and then if the hearing
officer says this child is eligible, district, you must
propose an IEP, the district has 30 days after that.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what happens in the
case where --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Could the district appeal?
That's the end of the road? Can't the district say the
hearing officer is wrong?
MR. FEINERMAN: Absolutely, the district can
appeal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if it does, does it
have to take any action in the interim.
MR. FEINERMAN: I suppose it, yes, unless it
gets a stay of the hearing officer's ruling.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is --
MR. FEINERMAN: But that didn't happen here
and I am not aware of any cases which it did happen. In
this case there are two tracks. The hearing officer
said: T.A. is eligible; prepare an IEP. The district
said: I disagree; I'm going to appeal to the district
court.
But in t mean time, within less than 28
days, t district prepared an IEP and offered it to T.A.
And at that point T.A. could have accepted the services,
thus rendering him eligible for tuition reimbursement.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I still don't understand
your answer to Justice Scalia. What if the school board
just was adamant that he is not entitled to any special
education? It just maintained that position throughout
the litigation?
MR. FEINERMAN: I think the assumption is
that the school district would not abide by a lawful
order of a hearing officer.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, they got a stay and
they wanted to appeal it. And if they did what happens?
MR. FEINERMAN: In that situation there
would be no -- and I'm not aware of that situation ever
happening --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But they don't have a risk
under your view of the law as I understand it. They
could take that position and they would never be
liable -- never be liable.
MR. FEINERMAN: There would be a delay in
that situation, but I'm not aware of any case where that
situation -- where a school district.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But that's the consequence
of your position as I understand it, that they could do
that and they would not have any risk of liability.
MR. FEINERMAN: I think that's a
hypothetical risk, because again I haven't seen any
situations where that actually has occurred.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but it's not that
hypothetical when -- there are two prongs. Number one,
the school has to agree first with the diagnosis, which
in this case they didn't even do that. They had a good
faith disagreement. Second, they have to have an
adequate IEP. So there are two conditions.
MR. FEINERMAN: That's true, and I think --
I think the answer to the question -- it's really, this
is really a legislative question. Perhaps Congress
ought to further amend the statute to say in those
situations where a school district is being obstreperous
in refusing to comply with the hearing officer's order,
in those situations there is going to be an exception to
the exception. But it's not -- it's not the statute
that Congress wrote. Congress wrote --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Doesn't your
interpretation of the statute create an incentive for
the school board to just say, we'll never provide any
kind of education, special education, we will just tough
it out? Because they can't lose, they can't be liable
if they do that, if I understand you correctly.
MR. FEINERMAN: I -- I suppose
hypothetically it does, but my understanding is that
that just doesn't happen. In Schaffer v. Weast and
other cases, the assumption --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Would you be surprised to
find a court decision which says that when the reason
that the plaintiff cannot comply with the requirement
that he first be in a plan, when the reason is -- is the
district's refusal to abide by an order to prepare a
plan, that subsection (2) does not apply?
MR. FEINERMAN: Your --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't profit by your
own malfeasance.
MR. FEINERMAN: That's correct. And I -- I
don't think there could be reimbursement under
subsection (ii). Perhaps if there were a parallel
Rehabilitation Act claim under 504, that might be a
vehicle to get relief in a situation where the school
district is acting as horribly as being hypothesized,
but not under --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you -- you don't think
-- you don't think a court could say the only reason
these people could not comply with (ii) is that the
school district made it impossible by not complying with
the order to provide an IEP; and, therefore, they --
they can recover for the private placement?
MR. FEINERMAN: It's conceivable that --
that a court could hold that. A court could also --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think it's more than
conceivable. I know a lot of courts that would hold
that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But your position is that
there are basically two situations: One, the situation
in which there is an administrative order to do an IEP
and the school district says, no, we won't do it.
Millions for defense; we are going right into appeal,
and we are not going to prepare the IEP. In that
situation, as I understand it, you are saying, the
parents have no way of getting relief under the statute.
In the case in which there is an order for
the IEP and the school district prepares the IEP, even
though the parents think it will be inadequate, there in
fact is a ready remedy subject to two delays: One, the
time to prepare the IEP; and, two, ten days to give it a
try before the parents take the kid out of school.
That's basically the scheme that you are proposing that
the statute provides; is -- is that correct?
MR. FEINERMAN: That's the scheme that
Congress wrote in the statute, yes, under -- under
(C)(ii). And it has to work that way, because -- I want
to come back to a -- to a point that was aired in the
briefs, which is T.A.'s argument and the government's
argument rests upon the notion that section
1415(i)(2)(B)(iii) gives hearing officers the authority
to award tuition reimbursement. That provision doesn't
give hearing officers any authority to do anything, let
alone to award tuition reimbursement.
The only provision in IDEA that gives
hearing officers the authority to award tuition
reimbursement is 1412(a)(10)(C)(ii). So if the statute
doesn't work -- the statute doesn't work, and the
Secretary's interpretation of 1415(i)(2)(B)(iii) is
implausible because it accords to hearing officers the
authority that it doesn't have.
There is another textual clue why the
statute works in the way that I am suggesting, and that
is in the '97 amendments in subsections (iii) and (iv)
Congress gave very explicit guidance to courts and
hearing officers as to the factors the court and hearing
officer should consider when deciding whether to award
tuition reimbursement to a student who previously
received special education services.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The -- the problem that
the government and the parents have is they have to give
some work to (ii). Under -- under their view (ii)
doesn't seem to do much work.
And the problem with your position is that
it seems in a way formalistic and in some cases to
encourage intransigence. If we adopted a presumption
that the school district's diagnosis was correct and a
presumption that it's -- if -- if there was a diagnosis
of disability, that its individual education program was
adequate, that would, it seems to me, not be all you
wanted, but would ameliorate the position of the school
district. Would we have authority, do you think, to
adopt such a presumption?
MR. FEINERMAN: I think the -- the Court
already has adopted that presumption in Schaffer v.
Weast. School districts are presumed to be acting in
good faith.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, this -- this would
be a clear and convincing evidence presumption that the
-- that the IEP is -- that the school district designs
is right, that its diagnosis is right. That's not all
you -- that's not all you would be asking for.
MR. FEINERMAN: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But would we have
authority to do that if we were to reject your
interpretation of the statute?
MR. FEINERMAN: I suppose you would have the
authority to do that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How have -- how have
hearing officers been proceeding? I mean, here we had a
case that went to a hearing officer. There is no IEP
when the hearing officer begins the process. In the --
on the eligibility or not, do hearing officers give
deference to the school district and then -- so that's
eligibility. At the IEP stage, do they give deference
to the student?
MR. FEINERMAN: There is some deference
given to -- are you talking about the deference that the
district court gives to the hearing officer?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, the hearing officer.
The hearing officer is the first-level decisionmaker.
And the school board gives its reasons why it thinks the
child is ineligible; the parent, the reasons that the
child is eligible. That's the threshold determination.
On that threshold determination of
eligibility, do hearing officers presume in favor of the
school district?
MR. FEINERMAN: Not -- not in this case. In
this case under Oregon law at the time -- and this was a
pre-Schaffer decision -- the hearing officer put the
burden of proof on the school --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel --
MR. FEINERMAN: -- on the question of
eligibility.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- why isn't it the
case that the school's diagnosis is a related service
under the statutory provision? It seems to me to be
very important service to the parents to know what the
school's diagnosis is.
MR. FEINERMAN: I -- I think that the
diagnosis is more in terms of eligibility. It's
under -- under (b)(6), the hearing officer can decide --
can consider issues of identification, eligibility, and
placement.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I'm talking
about what the parents received. And they receive a
diagnosis, and the statute covers -- asks whether they
previously received special education and related
services. Diagnosis would seem to me to be a service
related to special education.
MR. FEINERMAN: I -- I don't think that's
the way it works. A diagnosis -- a finding of
eligibility or not is not a diagnosis. It is just an
eligibility finding, and that's something that the
parents can take to a -- a due process hearing under
1415(f).
If there are no further questions, I will
reserve the remainder of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Salmons.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID B. SALMONS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. SALMONS: That you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The school district in this case improperly
denied T.A., a child with a disability who had always
been enrolled in public schools, access to all public
special education services. It asserts that because its
wrong eligibility determinations prevented T.A. from
receiving special education services, it is immune from
reimbursing T.A.'s parents the cost of obtaining those
services from another source.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is wrong with
ten days? I mean it's -- it's a big expense you are
asking the school district to incur, that will take away
funds from other programs. And all -- all they are
saying is give it a try for ten days, and if it doesn't
work out, then you can go?
MR. SALMONS: I think there are several
problems with that reading of the statute, Your Honor.
First of all, the ten-day period that is referenced in
subsection (C)(iii) refers to the amount of notice that
a district needs to receive before a child is removed
from the public school system.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, yes, the first
day -- the first day they say, look, we don't think this
is going to work out, so we are notifying you what we
are going to do. And they say, well, you've got to do
that in ten days, and they said, okay, ten days.
MR. SALMONS: But that's -- that's simply
not the way these things work as a general matter, and
let me just point out a few things about the normal
process of developing IEP's. And, again, here the child
never even got that far. But, typically, IEP's are
developed at the end of the -- of a school year for the
following year. And the parents at that point have a
period of time in which to decide to go along with that
plan or to give notice and then make alternative
arrangements.
And it's simply the -- I mean -- and that's
the way it works, because it's important for parents to
be able to get their child in an alternative program if
they decide that's what they want to do. And if you
wait until the school year has already started, those
may not be available. And the ten-day notice
requirement --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I suppose
that's right, but once the law is clarified, schools
that specialize in -- in treating these kids would be
able -- they would understand as well, and they would
understand you've got to -- the people who are going to
be sending -- most of the people who will be sending
their children to the school have to wait ten days. And
it seems to me that the actual practice on the ground
would work out pretty easily.
MR. SALMONS: But, again, Your Honor, if you
focus on the terms of the statute, the -- even under
Petitioner's reading, the requirement would be to have
previously received special education services, not to
have tried out a particular plan.
It may be the case that the plan for the
upcoming year is -- is very different than the plan for
the prior year. Perhaps they have had another
assessment, and they had substantially changed --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, which way does
that cut? It seems to me that cuts the other way.
MR. SALMONS: Well, I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Here's a -- here's a
new plan. We've worked on it. Here it is. At least
give it ten days -- two school week tries.
MR. SALMONS: I think the way that cuts,
Your Honor, is -- is that that reading of what you are
positing, I guess, in this exchange what Congress might
have had in mind, is not what they said in the statute.
They did not require parents to try out a particular
plan; just that at some point in time they had
previously received special education services.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: With respect,
counsel, what Congress provided is that the child must
have previously received special education and related
services.
MR. SALMONS: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So I think they did
provide that you've got to try it out at least for a
minimal period.
MR. SALMONS: But not the particular plan
that is the subject of the IEP, Your Honor. That --
that connection does not exist in the statute. And --
and we think it's counter to what Congress intended.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So what type
of special education services do you think do count as
having been previously received?
MR. SALMONS: Well -- well, if I -- if I
may, the way we read this provision, and it's set forth
on pages 3 and 4 on the addendum to the blue brief, and
we think it's important that we read this as a whole and
in context, is that subsection (C)(i) provides the
general rule to govern the payment of private school
tuition based on a unilateral placement by the parents.
And subsection (C)(i) creates the only expressed
limitation on the right to reimbursement, and it does so
only in instances where the school district has provided
a free and appropriate public education.
We think subsection (C)(ii), (C)(iii), and
(C)(iv) work together to govern the subset of cases that
is Congress was most concerned about and that, in fact,
are the most common scenario in which these disputes
have arised.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except that you are reading
(C)(i) to say something that it doesn't say. It just
says you don't have to pay if the agency has made a free
appropriate public education available.
MR. SALMONS: That is what --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you read it to say you
must pay whenever it hasn't made, and it just doesn't
say that. It -- it's a safe harbor for the school
district. It says, so long as you've made an
appropriate public education available, you can't be
liable for any -- any private school tuition.
Now, you want to expand that to say, and
whenever that condition doesn't exist, you are liable.
But it really doesn't say that. And -- and the later
sections suggest that it meant not to say that.
MR. SALMONS: Well, that's where we part
company, Your Honor, because, in fact, that negative
inference that you refer to is precisely what
Petitioners attempt to read into subsection (C)(ii).
There is nothing in subsection (C)(ii) that provides any
restriction on the ability to obtain reimbursement. It
was written in permissive language.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In reading -- in
reading it that way, you are reading the phrase "who
previously received special education services" to mean
also who previously did not receive special education
services.
MR. SALMONS: No, Your Honor. We are simply
not reading that language "who previously received" to
be a condition precedent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah, so it doesn't
matter whether they previously received or not.
MR. SALMONS: It does matter, Your Honor,
because the provisions that follow in (C)(iii) and
(C)(iv) that guide the exercise of discretion, in that
category of cases that were of concern to Congress, only
apply to the cases that are defined in subsection
(C)(ii). So in our reading the language "who previously
received" still serves an important purpose, but it
serves an identifying purpose for the limiting factors
provided in (C)(iii) and (C)(iv). It does not serve --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you are saying
Congress went to the trouble of spelling out this
elaborate provision in (C)(iii) and (ii) and all the
other things, but that was not the universe of the
situations in which there could be reimbursement? They
went to that trouble, but then -- at the end you want to
say or some other provisions or some other
circumstances?
MR. SALMONS: Well, that's right. We think
that Congress was focused on a particular set of cases
where problems had arisen, and that's where you already
had a child in the process of receiving special
education and you had parents who removed the child out
of that process without giving adequate notice, and
thereby short -- excuse me -- short-circuiting an
ongoing collaborative relationship that Congress wanted
to preserve.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but if -- if you avoid
that collaborative relationship entirely and just run
off to a prior -- to a private school right away, you
get reimbursement. Why?
MR. SALMONS: Well you don't automatically
get reimbursement.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would Congress -- huh?
MR. SALMONS: You don't -- you don't
automatically get reimbursement, Your Honor. There is
just no categorical bar to seeking reimbursement. You
still have to show it's an appropriate remedy, which
always has been understood to require a showing that the
parents acted reasonably and in good faith, and that
they were sincere in their efforts to obtain services
from the school.
JUSTICE BREYER: What about more than that?
MR. SALMONS: The alternative --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why not -- I mean,
suppose -- the part I don't understand in this statute,
which may not be relevant -- I would appreciate the
help. It seems to me that (a)(10) large (A) and then
(F) have something to do with the parent who never goes
to public school, the child just goes to private schools
to begin with, and they get something. If they have --
if they have a disability, this program pays them
something, right.
MR. SALMONS: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not following this. I
don't know what section.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's at the very beginning,
at the end of addendum page 1.
MR. SALMONS: This is what's -- Your Honor,
this is what's known as the child find provision.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is that?
MR. SALMONS: What it provides is that
for -- let me just step back for a moment and remind the
Court that the obligation on the State is to ensure that
children, all children with disabilities, regardless of
whether they are in public or private school, have the
opportunity for a free appropriate public education.
With respect to children in private school
who are not seeking a free appropriate public school
education from the public school district, the only
requirement under the Act is that you seek them out, you
find them, you identify them, and that you report that
to the Department of Education, and that you get money
for those children. And for those children who are not
enrolled in public school, you have to use a percentage
of the funds you receive from the Federal Government --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So in other
words --
MR. SALMONS: -- to provide benefits that are
available to all children.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- a parent who has a
disabled child who never thinks about the public school
system still gets some money, but not as much, for the
disabled child?
MR. SALMONS: It's not money to the parents,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: It's money to the school.
MR. SALMONS: It funds programs, for example
speech therapy or something like that.
JUSTICE BREYER: To the school.
MR. SALMONS: That they would then allow
children in private school to -- to benefit from.
JUSTICE BREYER: And so, it's money that
goes to the school for a program?
MR. SALMONS: It's not even necessarily
money that goes to the private school.
JUSTICE BREYER: Money that the children can
get. I get it.
MR. SALMONS: It goes to the public schools,
that they provide services that they may make available
to children regardless of their placement.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, would it
then work, what is -- would this system work under the
statute? You say, parents, if you are going to a
disabled child, you simply go to a private school, you
get the services you just mentioned.
Now, if you put in -- put the child in a
public school, and they find a free appropriate public
education, fine, that's the end of that, you have to do
it. Now, if they don't give you a decent one, you can,
you can send the child to a private school, but it
has -- you have to give it a shot to the public school
system.
Now, that's what you don't want the
interpretation to be? You don't -- you are against
that. But -- but let's amend it a little.
MR. SALMONS: That's not -- I would not
describe it that way, Your Honor, if I -- I don't mean
to --
JUSTICE BREYER: I am reading the language.
You may require the district to pay for someone who has
been enrolled in special services --
MR. SALMONS: I mean, again, just keep in
mind the facts of this case. This is a child who was in
the public school system --
JUSTICE BREYER: You haven't heard my
amendment.
MR. SALMONS: Okay. I'm sorry, Your Honor.
Go ahead.
JUSTICE BREYER: My amendment is the norm
will be give the public school a shot, but there could
be circumstances, you're getting the run-around, there
is need to put that child in a public school now. In
other words, special equitable circumstances that make
it reasonable for the parent not to give the school a
shot, though that's the norm. And in those unusual
circumstances, there would remain grounds for equitable
relief.
What about that as an overall interpretation
of the statute which has several parts to it?
MR. SALMONS: I would submit that the way we
read the statute, Your Honor, in fact, does precisely
that. Because, the school district -- just again, take
this --
JUSTICE BREYER: But you have to be willing
to accept that it's an unusual situation, though it may
well exist, that the judge is going to reimburse the
parent where that parent didn't give the public school a
shot. They will have to show there is a good reason for
not doing that.
MR. SALMONS: The -- the difficulty I
have --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that all right with you
or not?
MR. SALMONS: Well, the difficulty I have
with your question, Your Honor, is that the school
district always has a shot under the Act. In this case,
the school district assessed the child in 2001 and again
in 2003, and both times it erroneously concluded
that the child --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you are simply saying
that it was reasonable for the parent here. I'm not
asking that question.
MR. SALMONS: No, not just that it's
reasonable, but in the process of assessing the child,
in developing an individual education plan that is
appropriate for that child, that is precisely the shot
that the statute gives the public school system to get
it right. What the statute does --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Salmons, I thought
that the -- the courts, the district court, will not
provide for tuition reimbursement, unless at least two
things are shown. One is that the school district did
not provide an adequate education for this child. And
two, that the private school did, and then there are
equitable considerations.
MR. SALMONS: That is absolutely correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you must find both,
not just that the private school was a good place, but
that the school district did not offer an adequate
education for the child.
MR. SALMONS: That is -- that is correct.
That is what this Court held in Carter. That's what the
regulations say. I would note that there is nothing in
the text of the statute and the provisions that
Petitioner relies on, (C)(ii) for example, that makes it
a statutory requirement to show that the private
placement is reasonable as a -- as a condition precedent
to obtain tuition reimbursement. But both sides concede
that that's required, even though it's not in the
statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But procedurally we -- we
know that there is a provision addressed to a court for
equitable relief. The question was put before: Where
does the hearing officer get the authority to order
tuition reimbursement? Because the statute on which you
rely for the court speaks only to the court's authority.
MR. SALMONS: Thank you, Your Honor. I am
happy to answer that question. But Petitioner makes
this a centerpiece of their reply brief and I think they
just misread the statute. And again, keep in mind that
these amendments in 1997 were written against a backdrop
of this longstanding statute and this Court's
interpretations of it. The most direct place where the
statute provides hearing officers the authority to hear
address reimbursement claims and to award
reimbursement -- and this is on page 9 of the addendum
in the blue brief -- is 1415(b)(6). This has always
been in the statute and it states that the parents must
be provided an opportunity to present complaints with
respect to "any matter relating to the identification,
evaluation, or educational placement of the child, or
the provision of a free appropriate public education to
such child."
That is -- again, that has always been
understood to include the right to seek reimbursement
before the hearing officer. And this Court in
Burlington cited legislative history from the 1975 Act
that noted that hearing officers could award
reimbursement and address such claims in concluding that
it was part of the appropriate relief that courts ought
to be able to have under 1415.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are any of these other
procedures -- I took these to be procedures that have to
be provided by the school district, not -- not by the
hearing officer.
MR. SALMONS: These are -- these are
required -- this whole section, Your Honor, 1412, is
entitled "State Eligibility," and these are all
requirements that States have to provide for process in
order to obtain funds under the Act, and so it is a
requirement that States provide hearing officers that
have the ability to award reimbursement --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it doesn't say hearing
officers. "An opportunity to present complaints with
respect to any matter relating to the identification" --
MR. SALMONS: Those complaints --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to present the complaint
to the principal.
MR. SALMONS: No, Your Honor. This is a
reference to the due process complaint notice that is
referenced elsewhere in the statute. I believe
Petitioner would agree with me that that's what this
references.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but the reference is to
a right to be heard on certain subjects. It doesn't say
anything about authorizing a particular individual or
officer within a school system to award relief. The
problem is, it says you can be heard. It doesn't say
who will tell you or who will tell the school district
to write a check.
MR. SALMONS: Right. But keep in mind that
the judicial review process that the statute provides --
and this is at page 17 of the addendum. The right to
file a Federal action is limited to those matters that
are raised in the due process complaint notice filed
before the hearing officer. This is an exhaustion
requirement.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But can you raise the --
you can raise the claim to eligibility to a -- a private
education here without the hearing officer having the
authority to order the school district to provide it.
MR. SALMONS: That has not been the
interpretation of this Act, Your Honor, and I would
refer the Court to 34 CFR 300.148(b), which is a
regulation that states that hearing officers can award
reimbursement and that has been around since the mid-
1980s. My point is that is -- the Congress enacted
these amendments in 1997 against a subtle understanding
of how this Act works. And it's always been understood
that hearing officers can award reimbursement. There
was no need to provide in the '97 amendments that
hearing officers can also award relief.
And again because it's an -- it's an
exhaustion requirement and the judicial review provision
only relates to the things that you have raised before
the hearing officer, it makes no sense to say a court
can award reimbursement but you can't get reimbursement
from the hearing officer. That's the subject of the
review of the Federal court action.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but it might make
senses to say that the hearing officer can determine
eligibility; it is then up to the school to pay it; and
if the school does not pay it, then you have got to go
into court and get an award.
MR. SALMONS: In fact, Your Honor, the
hearing officers have always been permitted to award
reimbursement, as occurred in this case, and then the
school district can decide either to pay that or to seek
review if they -- if they so choose.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it might make also
sense to say that if the hearing officer has no
authority to award a certain type of relief, neither
does a court, under that general provision that --
MR. SALMONS: But of course this Court in
Burlington held the court did have that authority and it
relied on the fact that it has always been understood
that hearing officers have that authority in reaching
that conclusion in Burlington.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right, but -- but
with these new provisions, if the hearing officer
doesn't have the authority to award the kind of relief
that was awarded here, then the court wouldn't either.
MR. SALMONS: Well, I -- with respect, I
think there is nothing in the '97 amendments --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you agree they go, as
we say, in pari passu --
MR. SALMONS: Well, I do think that it
doesn't make sense to say --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that -- that whatever
the hearing officer can do, the court can do.
MR. SALMONS: I think generally --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and whatever he can't
do, the court can't do.
MR. SALMONS: I think they ought to be read
together, yes, Your Honor. But I think they ought to be
read to provide for the authority to provide tuition
reimbursement.
One statutory point I would like to make,
Your Honor, is that under Petitioner's reading of the
Act, if you read (C)(ii) to be -- that reference to "who
previously received" to be an absolute precondition,
then I think it's the case that (C)(i) has no meaning
whatsoever. It does not work under the Act at all.
Whereas on our reading of the statute, (C)(ii) still
does work. It's not a precondition; it doesn't do the
work that Petitioner suggests; it does a more limited --
serve a more limited function, but it still serves that
identifying role for the factors Congress wanted applied
when it was focused on how to preserve relationships,
ongoing collaborative relationships through the IEP
process that warrant preservation.
One other point I make, Your Honor, and
Justice Scalia, you make reference to this principle of
equity, that you ought not be allowed to prevent
something from happening and then come into court and
claim, "Ha, ha, they didn't satisfy a condition." And
that was a point that was made by Justice Cardozo in the
R.H. Stearns case that we rely on, where he said he who
prevents a thing from being done may not avail himself
of the nonperformance which he himself has occasioned.
That's precisely what happened here. As
this case to this Court, it is established that is a
child who was entitled to receive special education
services back in 2001. The only reason he did not
receive those services is because the district violated
its statutory duties --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought in 2001 even
the parents agreed that he didn't -- that they didn't
want to put him in special education?
MR. SALMONS: The parents agreed, Your
Honor, that he did not qualify for the learning
disabilities they tested him for, but they had an
obligation under the Act -- and this was found by the
hearing officer and the complaint that was filed was
filed within the two-year limitation to challenge that
2001 determination, and that that was there, they had an
obligation to test him for those other health
impairments at that time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. SALMONS: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Miller.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MR. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Had Petitioner provided T.A. a special
education that was later determined to be inadequate,
there would be no question that the district court would
have authority and discretion to determine whether an
award of private school tuition reimbursement was
appropriate. Petitioner's view is that because it
offered no special education at all, it was therefore
categorically immune from such an award. That position
is not supported by the statute and it's inconsistent
with the reasonable interpretation of the Secretary of
Education.
There is no basis for reading the statute to
create what effectively would be an incentive for
districts to stonewall and to say that if they don't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, for 10 days,
right? Even assuming the bad faith that you are
ascribing to the school district, it would only work for
10 days, right?
MR. MILLER: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And then they would
have -- then they would have previously received special
education services, and they could proceed.
MR. MILLER: We were not assuming bad faith.
Or --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: "Stonewall" sounds
to me like bad faith.
MR. MILLER: Well there --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That was the word
you used.
MR. MILLER: I -- Congress -- there is no
reason to suppose that Congress wanted to create an
incentive or to reward districts that do do that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we are talking about
two different things. I think the Chief was talking
about putting the child in special education, and
keeping the child there for 10 days. You are talking
about the school district that says "no special
education; this child is not eligible."
MR. MILLER: That's absolutely right. So in
a case like this, there is -- there is nothing to try
for 10 days because the district has found him not
eligible, they haven't offered any special education or
related services. Now to the extent --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, let's move to
the situation where they have a plan that the parents
regard as inadequate.
MR. MILLER: In the case --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In that situation
all they would have to do is to have the child try the
plan for 10 days.
MR. MILLER: Well if the -- to the extent
that there is an interest in having parents try out the
plan, Petitioner's reading of the statute is poorly
tailored to that objective, because it doesn't require
that they try the specific plan that's being proposed
for 10 days.
Even under Petitioner's reading the statute
simply would require that the child at some point have
received some special education and related services.
It wouldn't have to be under the plan that was being
tried. And --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the odds are that it
would be under the plan. I mean, what you say is
theoretically possible, but in the real world it's
probably going to be under the plan, isn't it?
MR. MILLER: Well, not necessarily because
there's a new plan at least once a year under the
statute, and they are typically proposed at the end of a
school year for the start of the new school year. So
there wouldn't be, on Petitioner's reading, a
requirement that you show up for the first 10 days of
the new year; you would just have to give notice after
the IEP is proposed in May or June. You give your 10
days' notice. You receive special education services
under the old plan, under the previous year. And under
-- on Petitioner's reading, the statute would be no
barrier to reimbursement there.
Now, of course, the district courts do have
considerable equitable discretion, and we're not
suggesting that reimbursement would be mandatory in that
case or in any case. And --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the parents -- I
think you agree that the parents would have the burden
of showing both that the school did not provide an
adequate education, an appropriate education, and that
the private school does?
MR. MILLER: That's -- that's absolutely
right. And they would also, in our view, have to show
the district court that they had genuinely cooperated
with the public school in making their child available
for evaluation --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose we thought it were
sensible to add to that burden the further rule that the
school district is presumed to have made the correct
diagnosis and, if there is a plan in that kind of case,
that the plan was adequate, and that the parent would
have to show by clear and convincing evidence that this
is not so, rather than just inventing it and pulling it
out of the sky.
Is -- is there some authority in the statute
that would give us warrant to do that? Or is there
some -- any cases that would give us warrant to -- to
establish a presumption of that kind in order to
recognize the long-standing expertise of the States in
this matter and in order to allow section (ii) to do
some work?
MR. MILLER: Well, a clear and convincing
evidence presumption would be difficult to reconcile, I
think, with 1415(i)(2)(C)(iii), which says that the
district court decision should be based on the
preponderance of the evidence, but it is certainly
within the district court's discretion and it would be
within this Court's discretion, I think, to prescribe
principles to guide the exercise of the district courts'
equitable discretion --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The district court
doesn't get into the act until the hearing officer is
done.
MR. MILLER: Right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so it would be odd to
have a presumption applicable in court that isn't also
applicable to the hearing officer, because the court is
reviewing a decision by the hearing officer.
MR. MILLER: Right. Well, the -- the
standard in both stages of the proceeding is by a
preponderance of the evidence, and the parents, as the
party challenging what the school has done, have the
burden. But at both stages, it would be appropriate to
consider whether they were genuinely seeking a free
appropriate public education, and I think it would be
entirely appropriate and consistent with the
preponderance standard for the hearing officer or the
court to take due account of the fact that the school
district has some expertise and to give some deference
to what it has proposed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: (i)(2)(B)(iii) --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is the department --
JUSTICE SCALIA: (i)(2)(B)(iii)?
MR. MILLER: Oh, it's (i)(2)(B) -- it's been
amended in 2004. There's no change in the language,
but it's now --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's now (C)?
MR. MILLER: (C).
JUSTICE SCALIA: (C)(iii).
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does the -- does the
department have a regulation that says the hearing
officer may order the private school -- the parents to
be reimbursed for private school tuition? Because it's
not in the statute.
MR. MILLER: 34 C.F.R. 300.148(b) says that
disagreements between the parents and a public agency
regarding the availability of a program appropriate for
the child and the question of financial reimbursement
are subject to the due process hearing procedures. So
yes, that regulation gives hearing officers the
authority to award reimbursement, as indeed the hearing
officer had done Burlington. Burlington was the case
where the reimbursement award was made in the first
instance by a hearing officer, and, of course, the Court
held that that was appropriate. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, this is
Spending Clause legislation. Do you have any rough idea
of how much of the obligation incurred by the States is
reimbursed by the Federal Government? What percentage?
MR. MILLER: I think of the additional costs
of treating special education children, above those of
educating other children, I think approximately
10 percent, 10 to 12 percent, is reimbursed by the
Federal Government.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if this
interpretation vastly expands the liability of school
districts in that particular area, isn't that a
consideration we should consider? Since they accept --
the States accept 10 percent of the funds to incur these
obligations and then you are expanding the obligation in
a way that we may at least find is ambiguous, isn't that
a pertinent factor?
MR. MILLER: There's no basis for supposing
that there would be a vast expansion of liability, and
there are some statistics on this in the National
Disability Rights Network's amicus brief at pages 13 and
14. Of about 6 million children in the United States
who are receiving special education, barely 1 percent of
those are in private placements, and the vast majority
of those are agreed-upon placements between school
districts and the parents. So this sort of unilateral
private placement is quite rare, because, first, the
parents do it at their own financial risk, and so
there's a real barrier to parents doing it, because they
have to be pretty sure that they are right and that they
are going to be able to meet the demanding standards of
-- satisfying the district court that an award of
tuition reimbursement is appropriate, and if they don't
do that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If the --
MR. MILLER: -- they're going to be --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If the parents are
entitled and the child is entitled to the special
education and the school doesn't give it, and there are
two schools -- private schools in the community, A and
B. A charges, what is it, $5,200 a month tuition; the
other is considerably less. And they both have adequate
programs for the child. Is the hearing examiner
entitled to reimburse only for the lower amount, or is
the parent entitled to send the child to the -- to the
more expensive school?
MR. MILLER: No. What this Court said in
Carter is that it's appropriate for the hearing officer
to take into account whether the cost of the private
education was unreasonable. So in a situation where you
had two basically equivalent schools, that would
certainly be an appropriate thing for the hearing
officer to take into account in limiting or denying
reimbursement.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Or there could be, I
suppose, an order that any tuition in excess of a
certain amount would be the parents' responsibility.
MR. MILLER: That's -- that's right. That
would be within the discretion of the hearing officer.
In a case like this, where you have a
residential placement and the residential component of
it -- there has been no suggestion that that was -- had
some educational purpose or was a part of providing an
appropriate education, it would also be appropriate for
the court to decide to disaggregate that and say we are
only paying -- the school district only has to pay for
the educational component.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me be clear. Am I
correct that under -- under the theory of the statute
that you are supporting, it would be possible for a
parent, without first consulting with the school at all,
to put the child in a private school and then later to
request public school services, and when it is -- when
they are denied or they are inadequate, all that public
school -- private school tuition would be reimbursable?
MR. MILLER: There would be no categorical
bar in the statute in that situation, but a district
court confronted with those facts would most likely
conclude that the parents had not genuinely sought a
free appropriate public education and hadn't
appropriately cooperated with the school district.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. MILLER: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Feinerman, you
have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GARY S. FEINERMAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. FEINERMAN: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice.
I'd like to address the two provisions that
we have heard today for the first time. T.A. and the
government are resting their argument that tuition
reimbursement is permitted in the unilateral placement
context to students who had not previous received. The
regulation 300.148 -- counsel referenced subsection (b),
Disagreements about FAPE, and it does say that the
hearing officer can consider the question of financial
reimbursement. And the very next subsection, (c), is
entitled Reimbursement for Private School Placement, and
that provision speaks only to students who previously
received special education and related services under
the authority of a public agency.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where are you reading
this?
MR. FEINERMAN: This isn't -- this
regulation was brought up at argument. It's not in any
of the addendums, but I -- I would direct the Court's
attention to subsection (c) of 300.148.
In terms of the -- the provision that T.A.'s
lawyer addressed, 1415(b)(6), no argument -- there's no
argument in the briefs that 1415(b)(6) gives hearing
officers the authority to grant tuition reimbursement in
these circumstances. The Department of Education did
not rely on this provision when articulating its
commentary that tuition reimbursement is still permitted
under these circumstances. The Secretary of Education
relied upon the 1415(i)(2)(B)(iii) provision. That of
course, refers only to courts.
And even if the argument were properly
presented, which it isn't, it would be subject to the
same dynamic that's in play with respect to
1412(a)(10)(C)(ii). You have a very general provision
giving hearing officers authority. Congress got
specific in 1997. There's a heading -- enacted a
provision under the heading Reimbursement for Private
School Placement. I think that clearly indicates that's
where Congress intended to repose the authority of
hearing officers to order tuition reimbursement to
unilaterally placed children.
We also have the -- and -- and it just
doesn't work to say that 1415(i)(2)(B)(iii) somehow
gives hearing officers authority. Even if it were
interpreted that way prior to 1997, in 1997 Congress
enacted the statute that expressly referenced hearing
officers and courts, and allowed both of them to give
tuition reimbursement. So even if 1415 were interpreted
prior to '97 -- incorrectly, we would submit -- to give
hearing officers that authority, after 1997 where
Congress actually went to the trouble of saying hearing
officers and courts can give tuition reimbursement in
certain circumstances, that -- that prior
interpretation, whatever its merits back then, no longer
is valid --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what happens -- what
happens if the hearing officer can't, but why couldn't
the court? I mean, they see an unusual situation. The
parents were justified, and it doesn't say there are no
circumstances other than -- where you couldn't -- where
they may not pay. So the judge says, I think this is a
situation where it is -- it is equitable to pay the --
the reimbursement.
MR. FEINERMAN: That's correct, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why not? What says you
can't do that, other than your basic point about the
"may require"?
MR. FEINERMAN: The Spending Clause, the
headings that Congress used --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But anyway, the
regs don't say anything about that.
MR. FEINERMAN: At any rate -- and it's a
system that doesn't make any sense, because for children
who did previously receive and go to the hearing officer
to challenge either an eligibility determination or an
improper IEP, the hearing officer could award tuition
reimbursement, but for children who didn't previously
receive and then they went in front of the hearing
officer, they would have to -- I don't know what the
word would be -- appeal to the district court in order
to get tuition reimbursement. Is it conceivable that
that that could be the system --
JUSTICE BREYER: You're saying the statute
says the hearing officer can't do that no matter what.
That's a separate argument.
MR. FEINERMAN: That's correct, but I'm
saying if --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MR. FEINERMAN: If T.A. is right, that would
be the system.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:16 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
19:17 administrative answer 12:2 15:7 4:4,10 5:6,21
adopt 22:19 17:13 18:20 arisen 31:21 27:6 29:23
53:9 22:21 anyway 58:11 arrangements 49:8
59:11 5:4,5 13:7 10:17 16:17,21 articulating award 4:2 21:13
47:7 49:5 agree 18:15 appeals 8:18 asked 7:14 40:23 41:16,21
36:21 49:1 1:15 37:13 42:12,18 43:2
agreed 44:24 appendix 9:11 asks 24:23 45:23 46:1
aired 21:9 appreciate 27:25 aware 17:3,23
39:18 16:15 appropriate 14:12 a.m 1:14 3:2
41:14,20 allow 34:16 3:23 4:10,13 assume 8:22 59:10
45:4 49:23 4:18,22 5:6 11:24
alternative 35:8 37:17 46:9,16 53:19 55:23
42:5 32:19 49:3 50:21,23 17:17 19:12 33:13 44:20
29:6 amend 18:22 8:23 55:9 38:20,22 39:5 barred 15:6
39:7 41:4 35:16 approximately 41:12 42:18,21 barrier 48:20
amendment April 1:10 45:22 49:18 based 12:13
5:19 39:6 3:11 21:25 2:2,10 3:4,7 authorizing basically 15:9
55:18 39:2 41:19,22 5:9,10 8:13 40:22 15:13 20:16
56:13 amicus 1:22 2:8 25:12 45:13 32:7,11 basis 46:5 52:21
31:24 amount 26:8 56:13,14,22 availability begins 23:13
2:4,6,8,12Carter 38:8 54:1 13:10,17,21 claims 39:6,20 30:7,24 38:13
25:13 case 3:4 6:19 24:8,11,21 clarified 27:9 44:12
55:15 9:13,19 10:9 25:10,14,24 Clause 3:18 52:5 conditions 18:18
18:5,16 20:23 31:11 45:10,12 clearly 57:4 3:22 4:1,6 5:11
23:23 47:8,15 48:24 child 4:10,11,14 21:9 44:11 31:5,12,20
33:7,11 51:25 54:13 6:22,23,25 7:8 56:18 44:4 46:23,24
59:9,10 9:5,16 10:5 common 29:18 57:1,5,11,17
35:2 cases 17:3 19:12 11:15 12:23 community 58:10
36:1,5 22:11 29:16 14:10,16,25 53:18 congressional
37:3,11 31:5,6,20 15:5,19 16:13 company 30:11 12:4
58:6,11 49:20 23:24,25 25:17 complaint 40:13 connection
59:4 categorical 26:9,19 27:3 40:16 41:6 28:24
38:25 categorically 32:25 33:10 complaints 18:7
52:24 15:6 46:1 34:7,9 35:5,7 39:10 40:10,12 consider 22:3
31:5 37:8,10,15,17 14:18 52:16 55:25
50:21 certain 14:21 47:3,4,6,17 complying 20:7 considerably
39:18 54:10 57:19 51:21 53:16,21 54:14,20 consideration
51:25 certainly 14:20 53:23 54:25 comprehensive 52:16
50:4 54:5 children 27:14 5:20 considerations
challenging 52:9,10,25 concern 11:24 3:17 5:2
15:4,4 50:20 57:7 58:14,18 31:5 consulting 7:12
26:8 29:8 chance 14:1,10 choose 42:15 concerned 29:17 54:24
15:1 circumstances conclude 55:7 context 5:19
30:13,14 change 51:8 14:21 31:18 concluded 37:9 29:8 55:22
changed 14:19 36:7,9,12 concluding contradict 6:2
38:11 27:25 56:16,19 57:19 39:20 convinced 14:15
charges 53:19 58:1 conclusion convincing
check 13:2 41:1 cited 39:18 42:24 22:25 49:15,25
Chicago 1:16 claim 19:25 condition 8:20 cooperated 49:7
38:22 39:3 defined 31:6 disagreement drive 12:3
8:21 9:7 covers 4:21 18:4 disagreements 16:11 25:6
21:5 24:23 delays 21:1 51:19 55:24 40:16 41:6
38:2,7 create 19:4 46:6 demanding 53:9 discretion 31:4 51:1,22
54:22 46:24 denied 25:17 45:22 48:22 duties 44:22
59:2 creates 29:11 55:2 50:5,6,8 54:12 dynamic 56:24
45:15 department 13:15
54:2 cuts 28:2,7 51:5,14 56:16 district 1:4 3:5 E 2:1 3:1,1
28:15 D determination 6:11 7:3,8,14 educate 12:15
52:4 D 1:20 2:7 3:1 7:3 23:25 24:1 7:17 8:2 9:8,12 educating 52:10
59:8 45:13 45:7 58:16 9:15 10:5,16 education 3:14
48:21 26:12,12 45:22 15:25 16:13,14 6:24 7:9 9:6
56:21 days 10:21 11:2 determined 6:21 16:17,18,20 13:6 14:11
10:17 14:18,24 16:10 developed 26:21 18:6,23 20:2,7 19:6,6 22:5,15
16:12,14 17:9 developing 20:18,24 22:18 24:24 25:1,19
14:3 21:2 25:25 26:19 37:16 23:1,15,20 25:21 27:20
19:14 26:3,15,15 diagnosis 18:15 24:3 25:16
29:2
28:6 22:13,14 23:2 26:1,9 29:13 29:14,23 30:4
23:20 46:8,11 47:4,9 24:12,15,17,23 30:3 33:20 30:19,20 31:23
33:14 47:18,24 48:14 24:25 25:3,4 35:21 36:18 33:17,20,23
38:8,18 48:17 49:13 37:7,8,21,23 35:9 37:16,24
39:17 deal 6:9 different 6:9 38:5 39:25 38:6 39:13
42:2,5 decent 35:10 27:23 47:2 40:25 41:12
44:19,25
26:23 27:4 difficulty 37:1,5 45:21 46:10
47:3,6
45:18
54:18 direct 39:4 47:5,9 48:21 47:10 48:2,17
49:7 decided 10:7,19 56:10 49:7,12 50:3,5
50:23
52:2 decision 6:15 33:15 45:3 53:10 54:19
55:8
54:18
19:14 disability 22:15 55:5,9 58:21 56:4,16,19
57:24 24:6 50:3,16 25:17 33:2 districts 22:22 educational
decisionmaker 52:24 46:7,25 52:15 39:12 54:16,20
22:1 declared 6:25 35:5 district's 19:17 efforts 32:16
39:21 defense 20:19 disaggregate 22:13 either 42:14
50:7 deference 23:15 54:18 doing 36:25 53:7 43:3 58:16
57:13,18 23:16,18,19 disagree 8:3 draw 6:6 elaborate 31:13
15:11 example 34:13 fairly 8:3,4 finding 25:3,5 general 1:21
24:2 38:11 faith 12:6,17 finds 10:5 5:10 13:20
exception 18:25 18:17 22:23 fine 35:9 26:17 29:9
40:4 19:1 32:15 46:9,16 finished 11:18 42:19 56:25
42:8 exceptional 12:3 46:19 11:20 generally 43:12
excess 54:9 falling 12:16 first 3:4,13 4:8 genuinely 49:7
10:2,20 excuse 11:7 6:10,12,13 19:16 26:7,11 getting 6:22
17:5,11 31:25 55:24 26:12 48:14 20:22 36:7
47:6,10 exercise 31:4 far 26:20 52:1 53:5 Ginsburg 4:7,17
exhausted 8:7 favor 24:2 first-level 23:22 8:25 9:3,9,21
35:22 exist 28:24 30:7 41:5 42:5 52:7 44:5 23:10,21 37:20
expanding Feinerman 1:16 33:5 50:9,13 51:5
40:4 expands 52:14 4:7,16,21 5:1,7 10:21 11:11,13 56:6
53:16,16 expansion 52:22 6:4,8 7:2,10,13 11:20 give 12:22 14:10
56:2 expense 25:25 7:18,21,24 formalistic 15:1 21:2,14
38:1,19 expertise 49:22 9:10,22,25 forth 5:10 29:5 26:3,24 28:6
50:8 51:2 10:4,15 11:7 found 7:8 45:4 35:10,12 36:6
experts 6:23 11:10,19 12:8 47:9 36:10,23 48:15
expressed 29:11 16:9,20,24 4:12,18,22 5:5 given 13:1 23:19
13:5 57:12 18:4,10,19 33:19 35:8 23:20,23 37:18
20:10 21:6 55:8 57:10
fact 7:14 8:1 55:12,14,16 funds 26:2 34:1 12:6,8,18 26:4
49:9 42:11,22 51:1 file 12:9 41:5 further 18:22 58:15
50:1,4 52:20 financial 51:21 32:25 34:19,21
factors 22:2 53:6 55:25 G 34:24
17:6 40:21,24 55:19 huh 32:9 immune 25:21 intent 12:5
20:19,20 hearing 4:1 9:18 hypothesized 46:1 interest 47:20
27:12 9:21,22,23 20:2 impairments interim 11:11
36:22 10:8,9,16,19 hypothesizing 45:9 16:23
53:9,14 11:18,20 12:9 10:25 implausible interpret 16:5
13:20 15:8 16:1,7,8,9 18:11,14 implication 5:5 19:4 21:20
18:16 16:11,11,12,12 hypothetically 5:8 6:6 23:7 35:15
32:15 16:19,25 17:4 19:10 important 24:14 36:14 41:14
38:4 17:19 18:24 27:2 29:7 31:8 46:3 52:14
34:1 52:7 23:12,13,14,20 21:16 52:5 improper 58:17 39:4
55:20 23:21,22 24:2 identification improperly interpreted
21:10 38:20 39:5,17 40:11 inadequate interview 7:22
11:12,13 43:1,11 45:5 10:13,22 11:14 incentive 19:4 issues 24:19
50:10,15,16,25 11:15,17,18,21 46:6,25 iv 3:25 4:23 5:9
56:14 15:21 16:14 incorrect 7:2 31:4,10
19:11 52:3 28:23 44:6 independent 36:22 58:2
44:17 history 39:18 IEP's 14:4 26:19 indicates 57:4 41:25
44:11 hits 14:7 ii 3:25 4:23 5:8 individual 22:15 48:16
16:15 Honor 26:6 6:11 19:24 ineligible 4:15 3:10 4:7,17,25
57:22,23 27:17 28:8,23 20:6 21:8 22:8 6:25 9:5,16 5:2 6:1,5,18
36:3,17 37:6 43:21,25 49:23 instance 52:2 10:1,12 11:1,5
kicks 9:17 30:3 50:12,17 51:7 notice 3:18 26:8
kid 8:19 12:1,15 longer 15:6 51:11,18 52:8 26:24 27:6
18:7,13 15:22 21:3 57:20 52:21 53:14,25 31:24 40:16
kids 27:10 longstanding 54:11 55:4,11 41:6 48:15,17
kind 8:19 19:6 39:3 million 52:25 notifying 26:13
23:5 43:2 49:13,21 long-standing Millions 20:19 notion 21:11
24:8
25:10 14:5,8 20:13 look 14:4,8 28:10 35:24
26:11 24:14 33:6 26:12 39:1 41:2 O
28:1,4,14 38:18 58:20 lose 19:7 minimal 28:21 O 2:1 3:1
29:1,20 known 33:10 lot 20:13 minutes 55:13 obey 16:7
30:17,25 lower 53:22 misread 39:1 objective 47:22
32:3,9 L moment 33:13 obligation 10:13
33:5 language 30:16 M money 7:16,16
45:4,8
34:2,6
31:7 maintained 33:23 34:8,10 52:6,18
35:20 51:8 17:15 34:12,18,21,22
36:1,5
37:3,11 law 18:1 24:5 making 49:8 53:19 obstreperous
38:3,17 27:9 malfeasance months 15:2 18:23
40:9,13 lawful 17:18 19:21 morning 3:3 obtain 30:15
41:9 lawyer 56:13 mandatory move 47:12 32:16 38:14
learning 14:25 48:23 40:6
45:2 matter 1:12 11:2 N obtaining 25:22
legislation 52:5 11:3,9,10 N 2:1,1 3:1 occasioned
legislative 18:21 26:17 31:1,2 National 52:23 44:16
39:18 39:11 40:11 necessarily occurred 18:12
let's 7:23 8:22 49:23 58:25 34:20 48:9 42:13
49:10 35:16 47:12 59:11 necessary 15:10 odd 50:13
51:4,5 liability 18:9 matters 41:5 need 6:24 8:22 odds 48:5
52:14,22 mean 12:25 17:8 15:1,20 36:8 offer 38:5
53:13 liable 18:3,3 23:11 25:25 41:22 offered 11:13,21
54:8,21
30:5,7 27:1 30:19 needs 12:1 26:9 17:9 45:25
57:22
45:6 meant 5:12 30:9 Network's 52:24 11:20 15:8
mention 6:12 19:5 26:20 16:19 17:4,19
litigating 11:12 merits 57:20 48:10,12,15 24:6,18 38:20
18:13 loggerheads 45:12,13,17 norm 36:5,11 42:7,17 43:1
23:5 12:6 46:12,16,20,23 normal 26:18 43:11 45:5
53:13,15 long 12:7,7,8,9 47:7,15,19 note 9:12 38:9 50:10,15,16,25
P 35:21 42:8,9 57:4 17:9
57:23 P 3:1 42:14 54:19 placements 53:2 prepares 20:24
page 2:2 9:10,11 58:2,3 53:3 preponderance
21:12,14 pages 29:6 52:24 payment 29:9 plan 13:12 14:19 prescribe 50:6
22:2 paper 14:5 pays 33:2 19:16,18 26:24 present 39:10
24:2 parallel 19:24 pending 10:17 27:21,22,23 40:10,13
40:7 parent 7:1 15:21 people 20:6 28:5,12,22 presented 56:23
41:16,21 23:24 32:24 27:12,13 37:16 47:13,18 preservation
42:12,23 34:6 36:10,23 percent 52:11 47:21,23 48:3 44:7
56:15 36:23 37:12 52:11,17 53:1 48:6,8,10,18 preserve 32:2
49:14 53:23 percentage 49:13,14 44:5
54:24 33:25 52:7 plausible 14:20 presume 24:2
18:24 6:23 7:6 8:2,22 13:12,22 26:7 play 56:24 49:12
51:7 9:17 11:14,25 periods 9:19 25:15 45:18 22:12,14,19,21
26:15 12:21 14:8,15 30:16 11:14 12:17,25 50:1,14
36:3 15:5,12 20:22 permitted 42:12 15:3,5 16:4 pretty 12:25
48:10 25:6,22 26:22 petition 9:11,11 41:18 43:19 prevent 44:10
29:10 31:23 1:17 2:4,12 3:8 58:7 prevents 44:15
39:10 47:13,20 48:25 Petitioners 18:2,8 20:15 5:16,22 6:14
49:1 50:19 30:13 22:10,17 46:1 6:17 13:6 22:4
45:13 53:6,7,15 27:19 43:20 8:14,16 28:13,16 29:3
18:24 57:25 48:13,19 48:7 54:23 31:1,7 43:22
20:8,17 pari 43:7 phrase 30:18 practice 27:15 46:14 56:3
38:20 part 9:13 30:10 piece 14:5 precedent 30:24 58:15,18
41:12 32:21 39:21 place 4:11 9:19 38:13 pre-Schaffer
51:15 54:16 16:8,10 38:4 precisely 30:12 24:6
57:6 particular 27:21 39:4 36:17 37:17 principal 40:14
28:11,22 31:20 placed 3:13,20 44:17 principle 44:9
particularly placement 10:7 43:22 44:1 50:7
43:15,16 party 50:20 38:13 39:12 19:17 20:20 32:5 57:11,15
passu 43:7 53:5 54:14 21:2 57:19
7:7,12 proposes 12:13 put 5:13 7:11 reasonable regulation 41:16
20:9 15:21 12:16 24:6 36:10 37:12,15 51:14,23 55:23
30:5 32:5 proposing 21:4 35:7,7 36:8 38:13 46:3 56:9
33:16,18 provide 13:25 38:19 44:25 reasonably regulations
35:5 14:1 19:5 20:8 54:25 32:15 10:23 38:9
37:25 28:20 34:4,25 putting 47:3 reasons 23:23 Rehabilitation
41:10 37:22,24 40:5 23:24 19:25
49:4 40:7 41:12,22 Q REBUTTAL reimbursable
53:2 43:17,17 49:2 qualify 45:2 2:10 55:14 55:3
54:2 provided 3:22 question 7:25 receive 5:16,16 reimburse 36:22
55:3 4:22 28:15 8:6 10:2,14 5:22 6:20 53:22
57:3 29:13 31:10 18:20,21 24:9 11:15 24:22 reimbursed
provides 21:5 38:24 45:21 34:1 44:19,21 reimbursement
40:24 33:12 39:5 questions 25:8 received 3:13 4:3,9,20 5:3,15
providing 54:16 quickly 7:4 8:3 13:6 22:5 17:11 19:23
21:13,16 24:13 28:13,16 29:3 22:4 29:12
51:22 39:13 41:25 raise 41:9,10 46:14 48:2 37:22 38:14,21
50:18 57:3 rate 58:13 31:22 53:1 42:3,3,13
12:9,12 31:17 38:10 read 4:8 5:3 reconcile 50:1 48:20,23 51:21
23:13 43:1 55:18 29:5,7,25 recover 20:9 51:24 52:1
26:19 public 3:14,24 30:13 36:17 refer 30:12 53:11 54:7
37:15 4:6,10,13,18 43:15,17,21 41:15 55:21 56:1,2
41:3,6 4:22 5:6,17 reading 26:6 reference 40:16 56:15,18 57:3
51:22 6:22,24 11:16 27:19 28:8 40:20 43:21 57:6,14,18
33:2 29:14,23 30:4 35:20 43:20,25 40:17 55:23 25:22
51:20 32:25 33:16,17 46:5 47:21,25 57:12 reject 23:6
53:21 34:7,24 35:8,8 ready 21:1 refers 26:8 25:1 28:16
48:11,16 purpose 31:8,9 36:24 44:20 35:1 32:1,4
54:16 46:24 regs 58:12 relationships
54:14,14 46:13,18,21 7:15 15:10,15 21:3 22:13,17
respect 28:14 59:8 31:11 37:11 25:16 26:1,10
38:19 40:11 43:4 rough 52:5 59:3 28:6 29:9,13
40:23 56:24 rubber 14:7 says 4:8 9:15 30:2,5 32:5,17
42:18 Respondent rule 3:18 5:11 13:5,5 16:13 32:25 33:16,18
1:19,23 2:6,9 13:16,18 29:9 19:14 20:18 33:19,20,25
54:10 run 7:7 32:4 50:2 51:14,18 35:8,11,12,25
rests 21:11 S 16:17,22 17:1 40:23,25 41:12
review 41:3,25 3:1,7 5:9 8:24 20:4,12 29:20 45:23 46:10
reviewing 50:16 11:14 21:10 33:5 39:23 49:2,4,8,12
15:20 16:9 safe 30:2 43:13 44:9 53:3,17,24
29:12 31:19 25:14 26:5,16 scenario 29:18 57:4
41:2,4 42:25 31:2,19 32:7 scheme 5:20 34:24 53:18,18
28:11 49:6 50:12,17 33:9,12 34:4 school 1:3 3:4 school's 24:12
35:21 53:8 54:11 34:10,13,16,20 3:13,14,23 4:3 24:15
48:1 58:11 59:4,5 34:24 35:17,23 4:12,14 6:10 science 14:4
Rights 52:24 36:3,16 37:1,5 6:11,21 7:3,7,8 Second 18:17
18:11 53:6 38:7,23 40:2 9:4,15 10:1,5 56:19
27:7,19 ROBERTS 3:3 41:13 42:11,20 11:11,12,13,16 21:20
38:12 13:10,17,21 43:4,8,12,15 12:1,2,12,17 section 3:21
41:8,25 24:8,11,21 45:1,11 12:23 13:12 21:11 33:6
25:10,24 26:11 satisfied 16:6 14:1,17 15:17 40:3 49:23
28:19 29:1 44:12 17:18 18:6,15 see 8:14 57:24
33:19 shown 37:23 36:9 44:19,25 statutory 3:17 54:15
sides 38:14 45:19,25 46:14 5:20 24:13 suggests 44:2
35:11 35:5 37:11 53:1,16 56:4 stay 10:16 16:25 2:9 45:16
48:1 specialize 27:10 17:20 54:23
situation 10:4 57:2 step 33:13 16:24 19:9
58:14 17:22,23 18:5 specified 5:22 STEVENS 32:21 46:24
18:12,23,25 standard 50:18 23:17 14:25 26:10
sky 49:17 standards 53:9 4:22,24 5:15 35:25 37:18
7:22 somebody 13:1 started 10:22 6:16 55:22 59:6
14:1 soon 10:22 27:5 56:3
17:10 sorry 13:9 36:3 State 33:14 40:4 sub 4:8,19 T
24:25 sort 53:4 states 1:1,13,22 subject 21:1 t 2:1,1 17:8,9
sought 55:7 2:8 39:9 40:5,7 28:23 42:4 tailored 47:22
28:13,17 soundness 8:14 41:16 45:14 51:22 56:23 take 16:23 18:2
30:19,21 sounds 46:18 49:22 52:6,17 subjects 40:21 21:3 25:6 26:1
34:25 source 25:23 52:25 submit 36:16 36:18 51:1
44:20 SOUTER 7:24 statistics 52:23 57:15 54:2,6
46:15 8:11 11:5,8,23 statute 5:12 13:5 submitted 59:9 takes 16:8,10
48:2,17 12:11,24 15:9 13:24 16:4 59:11 talking 7:17
56:4 15:16 20:15 18:22 19:1,4 subsection 3:22 10:24 11:1
42:6 48:5 21:18,19,24 19:18,24 26:8 47:1,2,4
6:24 7:9 9:5 37:18,19 38:10 4:23 21:25 14:17,17,24
37:7 14:11 15:20,22 39:3,5,9 40:17 substantially 25:25 26:3,15
17:14 19:6 41:3 43:25 27:25 26:15 27:14
38:12 25:1,19,21 47:25 48:11,19 suggest 30:9 ten-day 15:12
49:6,15 27:20 28:13,16 49:18 51:17 suggesting 26:7 27:6
56:12 12:7,9,19 two-year 45:6 vehicle 20:1 58:21
21:23 times 37:9 6:16 8:24 9:19 21:19,19 22:8
45:10,11 today 55:19 11:14 17:5,9 wait 8:19,22 26:17 27:16
tough 15:18 17:10 21:10 27:5,14 29:16 35:3,3
19:6 25:17,20,22 want 21:8 27:4 43:24 44:1,2
treating 27:10 56:12 59:5 35:14 44:25 57:9
27:21 48:4 ultimately 13:2 warrant 44:7 27:2 41:20
37:23 trouble 31:12,16 8:13 10:25 Washington 1:9 wouldn't 4:19
47:2 57:17 17:12 18:1,8 1:18,21 5:12 10:12
11:23 try 9:14 12:22 27:11,12 32:21 12:15 14:6 write 41:1
14:9 13:12 21:3 understanding 20:22 21:8,24 written 13:3
15:14 26:3 28:11,20 19:10 41:19 22:11 25:3 30:16 39:2
17:17 47:8,17,20,23 understood 26:17 27:2 wrong 16:19
Tuesday 1:10 32:14 39:16 28:1,2,7 29:5 25:20,24
20:4,5 tuition 3:11,20 41:20 42:22 30:18 35:18 wrote 19:2,2
22:18 4:2,20 5:14,20 unilateral 29:10 36:16 52:19 21:7
24:16 5:24 7:18 15:6 53:4 55:21 57:11
26:5,12 17:11 21:13,15 unilaterally Weast 19:11 X
21:17 22:4 3:12,20 57:7 22:22 x 1:2,8
29:10 30:5 United 1:1,13,22 week 28:6
38:25 37:22 38:14,21 2:8 45:14 weeks 11:3,19 Y
43:17 45:23 52:25 went 5:18 7:14 Yeah 30:25
47:2 51:16 53:11,19 universe 31:14 8:23 9:4 10:9 year 26:21,22
50:2,6,23 54:9 55:3,20 unreasonable 23:12 31:12,16 27:5,23,24
57:4 56:15,18 57:6 54:3 57:17 58:19 48:10,12,12,15
57:14,18 58:17 unusual 36:11 weren't 5:8 48:18
turnaround upcoming 27:23 we're 15:19 11:3,9,11
49:10 turns 11:9,10
18:18 20:16
43:24 53:19
11:1 37:22,25 47:2 valid 57:21 willing 36:20
10:8,9 55:18 word 5:4 46:21
3 2:4 9:12 29:6
33:8 53:1 30 10:21 16:14
32:23 46:8,11 300.148 55:23
56:11
52:11 300.148(b)
41:15 51:18
1:14 3:2 34 41:15 51:18
59:10 39 9:10,12
52:11
52:24
52:25 4 11:19 29:6
40:3 55:13
45 2:9 16:10,12
45-day 10:8
5
56:25 504 19:25
39:22 55 2:12
39:8 6
6 24:18 52:25
25:7
7
56:20 75 11:2
9
9 39:7
41:4 97 21:25 41:22
10:20 43:5 57:15
39:18
41:18
3:11,19,21
41:19
15:22 19:18
9:8,12 37:8
45:7
37:9
10:20 51:8
1:10
2:6
10:19
1:10 17:8
