IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
POLAR TANKERS, INC., :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-310
CITY OF VALDEZ, ALASKA. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, April 1, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:18 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Petitioner.
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 29
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:18 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument this morning in Case 08-310, Polar Tankers v.
City of Valdez.
Mr. Rothfeld.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice
and may it please the Court:
The Valdez vessel tax violates the
Constitution's Tonnage Clause because it operates as a
charge on a privilege of trading in the port of Valdez,
and that tax is apportioned in a way that is guaranteed
to tax extraterritorial values and values that do not
have a connection to the city. That violates the Due
Process and Commerce Clauses.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's not often that we
have disagreements as to the basic facts. The red brief
says that the tax in question constitutes 11 percent of
the tax base, and you talk about that in the reply
brief. Can you spend just a little bit of time at the
outset telling us your views of this tax? And although
it's the Respondent's statement and not yours, do you
think 11 percent of the tax base means 11 percent of
what's collected under this tax or under all taxes
imposed by City of Valdez?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think that it means
all taxes that are imposed not only by the City of
Valdez, but they are including taxes imposed by the
State of Alaska that are collected by the City of
Valdez. The --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: In which case, that seems
really quite irrelevant.
MR. ROTHFELD: That is our position. We
think that's absolutely right. I think it is useful to
focus on the nature of this tax. It is a tax that is
directed exclusively at vessels and not on all vessels.
It's -- by exempting small boats and all boats that are
engaged in commercial fishing and all boats that dock
exclusively at city-owned harbors. This is a tax, a
property -- it's calls a property tax, but it's a tax
that falls only on vessels and is directed at those
vessels, that --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, some -- some of those
vessels, I take it, are taxed under other statutes. Is
that correct?
MR. ROTHFELD: I think -- I think not. I
think that -- so far as Valdez is concerned, the vessels
we are talking about are subject simply to this property
tax.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, do you -- do you take
the position -- let's say that if the State of Alaska
taxed all the other property you had mentioned except
for the tankers and the city taxed the tankers, that
that would by definition be discriminatory tax and/or on
some other basis violate the Tonnage Clause?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, that -- that would be
quite a different situation than what we have here.
Here, the city --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, the reason I raised
it was that -- in -- in your response to my first
question, you said, well, you didn't think the city was
taxing these other -- these other pieces of property,
and I'm -- I'm not sure why that is significant.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, there are -- there's a
huge universe of personal property that could be taxed
in the City of Valdez. Valdez has the authority to tax
all of this property except for a discrete category of
oil and gas property that is subject to taxation by the
State. So Valdez can tax all the ordinary kinds of
personal property -- movable property, personalty --
that any jurisdiction can tax. They can tax cars and
trucks and moving vans and refrigerators and jewelry.
Of all those innumerable things that they could tax,
they have chosen to tax a single item. They have chosen
to tax vessels and, as I said, not all vessels.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but you -- you want us
to ignore the -- the State tax. Do you really want us
to do that? I mean, it would be the easiest thing in
the world for the State of Alaska, instead of imposing
it at the State level, to authorize the municipality to
do it. I don't want this case to come back here for a
second time.
MR. ROTHFELD: But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now -- now that the
municipality is imposing the taxes that the State used
to impose, don't you think you have to count both of
them?
MR. ROTHFELD: I -- I don't think so. The
State of Alaska treats oil and gas property as --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are going to get a
fragile judgment if -- if we go on those grounds. All
it takes is a modification of the -- of the legislation.
MR. ROTHFELD: Not so, Your Honor, because
State of Alaska takes very seriously it's stewardship of
oil and gas property. That is something of tremendous
fiscal importance to the State of Alaska. I think that
there is little practical risk that the State is going
to assign the right to tax that property.
JUSTICE SOUTER: How about the risk in the
other direction, that the State will simply take over
this tax and remit the proceeds to the city? Would the
result on your view be the same if it did that?
MR. ROTHFELD: The result in my view would
be the same, but that would be a different and more
difficult case. Here, focus on what Valdez is doing:
It is -- it has the authority, as I said, to tax the
universe of personalty in the City of Valdez. It has
chosen to tax only particular types of vessels that are
used in the export of oil. Imagine, though --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There are other vessels,
too. It's the -- it's the oil tankers, and there are a
few other vessels that were included?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Including a -- a cruise
ship is covered. I --
MR. ROTHFELD: There is -- there is one
cruise ship, Your Honor, that was caught up in the net
in the first year the tax was imposed. Otherwise the
tax falls exclusively on what vessels that are involved
in the export of oil -- principally tankers, also
service vessels.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why does that -- why
does that matter? I mean, do you concede that if this
tax were in some sense nondiscriminatory, you would
lose?
MR. ROTHFELD: No, I think that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why are we having
all this talk about -- in other words, you think if
there was a tonnage tax applicable to everything -- you
know, your pickup truck holds two tons; it has got to
pay a certain amount or whatever. Then do you lose or
win?
MR. ROTHFELD: If a -- if a tonnage tax --
look at what the tonnage tax was initially designed to
do. The Framers chose the term "duty of tonnage"
because at the time -- the time this clause was it was
written in the late 18th century, tonnage was the
ordinary way of valuing the value of a ship and the
ordinary way of imposing tax on a ship.
If -- if the City of Valdez were to impose a
property tax measured by tonnage on everything -- on
vans and trucks and refrigerators and ships -- that
would be a difficult case for us. But, obviously, it
hasn't done that. It has not imposed a tonnage tax or
and it has not imposed a property tax on any other type
of property except particular types of vessels.
I think you apply the duck test: It looks
like a duck --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think you're --
MR. ROTHFELD: -- it quacks like a duck --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. I think you're
giving up an awful lot. I mean, what if the Framers --
couldn't they be have been more concerned about making
sure that there is a free flow of commerce, that ships
go, and the fact that everything is taxed would be less
of a concern to them? But you're -- you're willing to
say that if it's nondiscriminatory, even if you would
call it a "tonnage tax," you lose?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I -- I was using a
response to the previous question, and actually they
were imposing a property tax and they were measuring it
in an unusual sort of way. And the Court has said that
if there's a generally applicable property tax which
happens to fall on vessels, the reality of that tax is
that it is a tax on property and not a tax on vessels.
But here we have quite the opposite. Here
we have tax that falls only on vessels as cargo --
vessels. And you're quite right: The Framers were
concerned with the free movement of commerce. The
Tonnage Clause was designed to close the loophole that
was thought to be left by the Import-Export Clause,
which bars the taxation of imports and exports. Taxing
vessels would be a way of circumventing that.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Let's -- let's assume that
you're -- that a given tanker came into the harbor at
Valdez on one occasion and one occasion only. Would the
City of Valdez, under its own statutes, by the terms of
its own ordinance, tax that ship?
MR. ROTHFELD: It would, indeed, because the
city in its code creating the tax conclusively presumed
that a vessel was subject to the tax so long as it takes
on cargo worth a million dollars over the course of a
year. Oil tankers --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, let me -- let me just
change the question then. If -- if it came in and sort
of took half a tankful that didn't reach the point of a
million dollars' value, there would be no tax then. Is
that correct?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, it would have to take a
lot less than half a tankful. I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Whatever it would take to
get it under the minimum.
MR. ROTHFELD: Yes. If -- if it were not --
if it visited the port of Valdez once and took on less
than a million dollars and never came back to the port
of Valdez --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. Under the old
tonnage laws, wouldn't that ship in the 18th century
have been taxed?
MR. ROTHFELD: I think that they --
jurisdictions impose all kinds of different variations
of tonnage duties. And as the Court --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, the -- the point that
I am getting to is -- and I'd -- I'd like you to address
this -- one of the arguments on the other side is that
one reason this should not be treated as a tonnage tax
is that it relies upon the concept of a tax situs. And
the -- the implication is that not every ship that comes
into the harbor is going to be subject to the tax;
whereas, under the old tonnage laws, any ship that came
in would be. And what is -- what is your response to
that argument?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, two responses. First,
I think it is not the case that under the old tonnage
laws necessarily every ship was subject to tax. Ships
could be subject depending upon how -- how large they
were, and some ships could be exempted. So I think it's
not implicit in -- in the nature of a tonnage duty that
it applies to every ship that -- that enters the harbor.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Where do we -- where do we
look to find this out?
MR. ROTHFELD: One would have to look at the
practice in the 18th and 19th centuries. And some of
the Court's decisions --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you know of any source
that we could look at to support the proposition that
you just made?
MR. ROTHFELD: I -- I can't point you to any
authority directly addressing the point, but I can point
you to the general treatment of what a tonnage duty is.
I mean, it's a duty which is imposed on vessels on the
basis of tonnage. It -- it does not have to be imposed
on every vessel that enters the harbor. But I think
probably the more important response to your question is
the reality of this tax.
Valdez knew what it was doing. It wanted to
target -- it was commendably candid in saying what it
was doing. It wanted to target the vessels that were
engaged in the transport of oil. It knows how big oil
tankers are. It knows that the tankers are always full.
When they come in, they take a full load of oil. That's
-- that is the whole point of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you don't -- you
don't suggest that it matters, right? You -- you have
talked to some extent in the briefs about the bad --
evil motive.
MR. ROTHFELD: No, I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you are not
going to suggest that the same tax could be valid or
invalid depending on why it was enacted.
MR. ROTHFELD: No, I -- I don't, but I --
JUSTICE BREYER: May I ask one other
question before you leave this, which is where Justice
Kennedy started? Suppose a State says: In our State,
we want to tax all oil and gas property, and here's how
we do it. We assess the value of all oil and gas
property, ships and everything else included. Then we
impose a tax of 20 mills per dollar of assessed value,
something like that, on all of it.
Now, the State will collect all of it, and
we make one exception. We define which property the
State will directly get the money from, and then the
city can do the rest, if it wants. Now, here's what we
do with the State money. We give it to the city. So if
the city wants to, it can put the same tax on that
little bit of property left over, which is a subcategory
of oil and gas property. And by the way, the name of
that little bit of property left over is called "a
ship."
Now, is that a tonnage tax, and is that what
Alaska has done here?
MR. ROTHFELD: If I understand the example,
that -- that might be a tonnage tax, depending upon the
--
JUSTICE BREYER: I described to you the
entire tax. We know no more about it.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, if -- if it's a tax on
oil and gas property, and that is the definition of the
tax and it happens to fall on vessels as part of the --
JUSTICE BREYER: The way it does is just as
I said. And maybe I was -- it was too much for you to
take in. So the point is that it's a tax on oil and gas
property. That's Code section 1. Code section 2 is
defined subcategories -- (a), (b), (c), (d, (e), (f) --
all of that. Code 3 says (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e).
The -- the State government collects and remits it to
the city. (G), the city can assess the same tax if it
wishes. It doesn't have to -- and keep the money. (G)
is ships.
And the reason I have asked that question is
I read something from a -- Alaska Department of Economic
and Community Development which suggested to me that
that is Alaska's tax. I might have that wrong. I just
read a sentence or two, and maybe I am wrong that that
is Alaska's tax, and --
MR. ROTHFELD: Yes, and --
JUSTICE BREYER: But if it's Alaska's tax --
MR. ROTHFELD: That's --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- what's wrong with it?
It's a -- it's a tax on all oil and gas property, and
all they do is they let the city collect some of that if
they want, and they collect the rest of it and give it
to the city.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, what's -- what's wrong
with what's going on here and -- and I think this is an
answer to your question -- the City of Valdez has the
authority to tax an entire -- as I said, the entire
universe of personalty. And -- and as -- as you
described it, the City of Valdez also can impose a tax,
although it doesn't have to, on -- on vessels. And the
city has chosen to single out vessels out of all the
types of property that it could tax, and it imposes a
tax on them called a property tax.
The reality of it is that it's a tax on
vessels.
JUSTICE BREYER: What I'd like to know is:
Do you think what I said was a misdescription? What's
worrying me about this aspect of this case is a possible
need to send it back to find out what Alaska's tax
system is. Now -- now, if what I just said is a -- is a
correct description approximately and if the other side
thinks it is, too, then at least I -- I know how to go
about deciding it. And if I don't, I don't know quite
what to do.
MR. ROTHFELD: My -- my understanding of how
the tax system works is that this -- this is a State
level tax. Alaska determines what are subject to tax,
determines the items of property that are subject to
tax. It determines which of these vessels are subject
to -- to the Alaska tax. It then allows the City of
Valdez to collect the tax and to use the tax, but it is
a tax imposed by law by the State of Alaska.
Valdez has no discretion to tax things that
are not oil and gas property, that are not taxed by the
-- by -- subject to the tax at the State level by the
State.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: As you understand it, with
reference to the tax base referred to in the red brief
at page 14 where it says it's 11 percent of the tax
base, is that tax base all city-imposed?
MR. ROTHFELD: No. My -- my understanding
of what they are referring to is that this is -- Alaska
tax oil and gas property, including the Alaska oil
pipeline and the oil terminal in the City of Valdez,
which are enormously valuable pieces of property. So I
think that -- that we are sort of talking apples and
oranges here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was your answer to the
Chief Justice that if there is a tonnage tax imposed on
everything including -- including ships, it would still
violate the Tonnage Clause. Is that right?
MR. ROTHFELD: If it's a -- a literal duty
imposed on the -- the cubic capacity of the ship, it --
it's difficult to see how that could really be imposed
in terms -- on every other item of property. I suppose
if the -- if the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's my -- it's my
hypothetical. I made it up.
(Laughter.)
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, if the city were --
were to say that every transportation -- device of
transportation was going to be -- be taxed on the basis
of its cubic capacity, you know, vans and railroads --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think it would be
okay?
MR. ROTHFELD: I think that would be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's only discrimination
that counts?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, we focus on -- well,
no. I would say -- I would not say it's necessarily
okay. That would be a different kind of situation than
we have here. Here we have the purest case of what's --
of -- of a tax which is focused exclusively on vessels.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, there's some --
there's some fight about that, obviously. There --
there is no fight about the fact that this tax is based
upon how long the ship remains in port, right?
MR. ROTHFELD: Well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many days.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. How many days it
remains in port.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, there are two of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which means, the argument
could go that this is obviously a -- a tax for the use
of the port. And that's exactly what the Tonnage Clause
was directed against, preventing Philadelphia and New
York from taxing the consumers in New Jersey by imposing
taxes on ships that bring in goods.
MR. ROTHFELD: I -- I agree entirely with
that. The -- the effect of this tax is to tax
essentially the charge for trading in the Port of
Valdez, and that is exactly what the Framers --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you don't dispute
that in light of the benefits provided by Valdez to the
shipowners, that they could be a legitimate tax on these
vessels?
MR. ROTHFELD: That is -- that is absolutely
right. There -- there --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So could you describe
what tax authority you think Valdez has?
MR. ROTHFELD: There are two ways that
Valdez could go about taxing these vessels. It could
impose a user fee, and the Court has recognized in its
Tonnage Clause decisions that even a -- a tax on cubic
capacity, a tax on weight, would be fine if that is a
user fee which is designed to provide -- pay for
services that are provided specifically to vessels
roughly equivalent to the value of the services
provided. So that is one way Valdez could do it.
A second way they could do it is to impose a
nondiscriminatory property tax. If they imposed a tax
on the citizenry of Valdez affecting some broad array of
personal property, that would impose the kind of
political constraints that would discourage, you know,
abusive export of the city's tax burden, which is just
what the Framers --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How much property -- you
said if they -- if they taxed all moveables, that would
be okay. Could they have some exemptions and still --
MR. ROTHFELD: It -- it may -- I -- I
suppose the test would be if it's predominantly focused
on vessels, that would be unconstitutional. This case
doesn't provide an opportunity to -- to explore exactly
how far that goes because this is, as I say, the purest
case of a tax, property tax, all the property tax, which
applies only to vessels.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you don't think a daily
-- a daily charge on vessels for remaining in port
violates the Tonnage Clause?
MR. ROTHFELD: It would violate the Tonnage
Clause.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is this anything else than
that?
MR. ROTHFELD: I -- I agree with you,
Justice Scalia, that however ports, States, or cities go
about trying to impose a tax on vessels for the -- I'm
calling it the privilege of trading in the port, as
distinct from the user fee I discussed with
Justice Ginsburg, that would be an unconstitutional
tonnage duty. That's what the Court has said --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What about a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I was going to say,
even if it's a flat fee?
MR. ROTHFELD: According --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Every vessel has to
pay, you know, $1,000.
MR. ROTHFELD: The Court has so held on
several occasions that a flat fee violates the Tonnage
Clause.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Rothfeld, can I ask
you a question, just focusing on the Tonnage Clause, not
the elements of discrimination? If you assume that the
Tonnage Clause was designed to protect New Jersey from
being exploited by New York and perhaps other States
because they don't have their own ports, why does that
rationale have any application to this case, because the
only State ships oil out of Alaska is Alaska? So there
is no other State like New Jersey who could be harmed by
the Tonnage Clause.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, if the recipients of
the property are -- Valdez is taking it -- this is
really --
JUSTICE STEVENS: What State is being
discriminated against in the scenario we have before us
today?
MR. ROTHFELD: All of the States that are
using the oil shipped through Valdez are paying --
ultimately paying this tax. I mean, this is what the
Framers were concerned about. The -- the danger that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But you are saying it's an
unduly onerous burden on the oil companies and their
tankers, and they only ship oil out of Alaska.
MR. ROTHFELD: Well, the concern that the
Framers had in putting the Tonnage Clause in the
Constitution, as with the Import-Export Clause, was that
States with favorable port facilities were going to be
imposing burdens by taking advantage of their favorable
geography to impose burdens that are going to be felt by
the other States. That is exactly what Valdez has done.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not felt by the other
States, felt by the consumers in other States.
Ultimately, it's not going to be the oil companies that
pay this tax; it's going to be purchasers of oil.
MR. ROTHFELD: That -- that's right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: All of whom are going to be
outside of Alaska, since this oil is leaving Alaska,
right?
MR. ROTHFELD: That -- that is exactly
right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a neat tax, you know,
get somebody else to pay your taxes.
MR. ROTHFELD: That -- that is precisely
right, and that's just what the Framers were concerned
with, the Tonnage Clause in the Constitution.
If -- if I may, I will move to the
apportionment issue in the case. I don't want -- I
don't want to -- to leave behind -- the Court had
questioned on the Tonnage Clause.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but just on
a -- maybe this doesn't matter. I have seen the
capacity of cargo planes described in terms of tonnage.
Does this clause apply to those?
MR. ROTHFELD: That -- that is an
interesting question. It -- it was written to apply to
ships simply because in the late 18th century, the only
way of moving substantial amounts of cargo was by -- was
by vessel. And I imagine that if the Framers had in
mind airplanes and railroads --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It is that we have
an evolving Constitution, after all.
MR. ROTHFELD: I will leave that one alone,
Your Honor.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then, do you
know -- it's not an entirely frivolous point. I mean,
do you know if States, localities where airports are
located charge things that might be viewed as Tonnage
Clauses on airplanes?
MR. ROTHFELD: I don't know a definitive
answer to that. Generally speaking, airplanes and other
types of property are -- are subjected to property taxes
on the value, and not on capacity. Although, as I said,
the Framers, I don't think, cared about capacity as
such. They just cared about charges that were being
imposed upon vessels that were going to be passed
through, as Justice Scalia said, to the ultimate
purchasers or sellers of the imports and exports that
were -- that were in the vessel.
JUSTICE SOUTER: I thought you said earlier
or implied earlier that we couldn't draw a distinction,
really, between capacity and value because tonnage in
the 18th century was simply a proxy for the -- for the
value of the ship?
MR. ROTHFELD: That -- that's right. And I
don't -- I hope I didn't --
JUSTICE SOUTER: So a value tax is going to
run into the same problem --
MR. ROTHFELD: That's right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: -- as a tonnage tax.
MR. ROTHFELD: That's right. And as for the
Chief Justice's question, application to moving vans or
cargo planes, the Court did not consider that because
this is the purest case. It is within the plain terms
of the Tonnage Clause, the historical application of the
Tonnage Clause. It's the clear intent of the Framers in
writing the Tonnage Clause.
JUSTICE ALITO: If the amount of the tax
were measured by the number of sailors who were going to
come ashore and the number of days they would be ashore,
and a small port city wanted to recover the costs that
they impose on municipal services, would that be --
would that be subject to the same flaw that you see
here?
MR. ROTHFELD: It -- it would, although it
might be possible for the city to impose some type of
user fee calibrated in that direction. The Court's
cases refer to -- the tonnage principle applies to the
number of passengers that the ship may carry or the
number of crew members on the ship. If -- if it's not a
proxy for particular expenses that are imposed on the
jurisdiction, as this concededly is not, that was not
what the -- Valdez intent in passing this tax, then it
would be problematic under the Tonnage Clause.
But I say again we have here the clearest,
easiest case under the Tonnage Clause. It's a -- it is
a tax that is designed exclusively of vessels that trade
in the harbor.
On the apportionment question -- and I don't
want to give short shrift to that, because the Valdez
tax is apportioned in a way that is guaranteed to impose
a tax on values that are not present in the
jurisdiction -- Polar's tankers spend only a small part
of the year in Valdez. They spend the rest of the time
on the high seas or in other ports either unloading oil
or in dry dock. And, therefore, everybody agrees the
tax has to be apportioned.
The ordinary way and the way that this Court
has approved the apportionment of a tax on physical
property -- physical property is straightforward. You
would put in the numerator of the tax the number of days
with the number of miles they spent in or number of
miles traveled in the taxing jurisdiction; you put in
the denominator 365, the total number of miles traveled
everywhere. You multiply that fraction times the value
of the property.
And so, for example, if I have a
transcontinental passenger train moving from New York to
California that spends 20 percent of its time in
New York, New York could tax 20 percent of the value of
the train.
That is not how Valdez does it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's -- the train
is going to be some place throughout its trip, unlike
the ship that's going to be on the high seas.
MR. ROTHFELD: That's right. But the -- the
Valdez theory does not depend upon the taxation, the
taxability of a ship somewhere else. Valdez is simply
saying that we are entitled to tax, you know, not on the
basis of physical presence in this jurisdiction at all.
We are entitled to tax on some concept of where
productive commercial activity takes place.
And so it does not apportion on the basis of
amount of time spent in the jurisdiction over the course
of the year, which is the approach that the Court
ordinarily has used. The Valdez approach is precisely
the equivalent of New York saying, in my
transcontinental train example, we are going to take
into account only time spent in New York and Los Angeles
loading and unloading passengers, and we are going to
discount all of the rest of the year, all the rest of
the time that the train has spent moving the passengers
from place to place.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Who can tax for the time
on the high seas?
MR. ROTHFELD: This Court has held in the
Central Railroad case that the taxing authority goes to
the domicile. That for time --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the domicile here is
Texas. Is that right?
MR. ROTHFELD: The commercial domicile is
Texas. The corporation is incorporated in Delaware.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In either case, no ships
berth in either Delaware or Texas. Is that right?
MR. ROTHFELD: These ships do not -- the
ships berth in Texas. The ship do not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the home port might
have had in the old days the notion that's really where
the vessel is berthed. But, nowadays, Delaware has very
little to do with where the vessels are berthing and
where they are being serviced?
MR. ROTHFELD: If I may, Your Honor, I'll --
I'll answer that question and sit down to reserve a
little bit of time. You are right as to the physical
location of the ship, but the -- the jurisdiction, the
authority of a non-domicile to tax has always been
constrained by -- under the Due Process Clause -- by the
physical location of the property.
And so, the fact that the property may or
may not be subject to tax somewhere else does not give
Valdez additional authority to tax property that's not
present there.
Now, the Court has said that the domicile,
whether or not the property is present, is providing
benefits to the owner of the property, and it's those
benefits that justify the imposition of the tax for
periods when it is not in any tax situs subject to tax
by anybody else.
And if I may, Your Honor, I will reserve.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Olson.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In the Wheeling case, this Court said it is
too well settled to question the taxes upon vessels
based upon their value as property do not violate the
Tonnage Clause. In fact, no ad valorem property tax has
ever been held to violate the Tonnage Clause.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it says "vessels of
all kinds are liable to taxation as property in the same
manner as other personal property."
MR. OLSON: Yes, Justice Kennedy, precisely
in the same manner as other ad valorem property taxes.
Now let me answer the question that both you and Justice
Breyer particularly addressed, which was the oil and --
and gas tax imposed with respect to much of the property
in Valdez. Valdez taxes homes, it taxes oil and gas
property, it taxes barges, it taxes cruises, it taxes
all sorts of things just like every other jurisdiction
does. The oil and gas tax that you ask about,
Justice Kennedy, and you did, too, Justice Breyer, is
imposed -- and there is no need to remand this case to
address this. It's in Section 43.56 of the Alaska Code.
The State of Alaska imposes an oil and gas tax on
property used in the oil and gas extraction,
transportation, et cetera, business, but it also
authorizes a city under Section 43.56 and 29.45 -- the
City of Valdez may impose that tax as well. It's two
mils, it's just like every other tax that is imposed in
Valdez. These are taxes imposed on the same basis. If
the city imposes the tax, which the City of Valdez does,
then the tax by the State -- that tax paid to Valdez is
a direct credit, dollar for dollar credit, for the tax
that would otherwise have to go to the State.
So, in the first place, I think would it
make no difference as suggested by your question,
Justice Breyer, whether it was the State or the city
that imposed the tax. The constitutional provision
refers to states. States divide up their taxing
authorities in various different ways. The fact is that
the State of Alaska through the City of Valdez imposes a
tax on lots of different things.
This oil and gas tax that we are talking
about consists of 60 to 70 percent of the revenue base
of taxation for the City of Valdez. The -- the ship
tax, the tax on the -- that actually applies to vessels
which include the tankers, include barges, include a
cruise ship, includes just Alaska ships and -- and
ships --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not fishing ships, right?
MR. OLSON: The fishing --
JUSTICE SCALIA: None of -- none of Valdez's
fishermen have to pay this tax at all?
MR. OLSON: They don't have to pay this tax,
Justice Scalia, but they pay other taxes. There is tax
on -- on the weight of fish and there is tax on the
value of fish and there's tax -- there's -- fees, they
use a different dock and they pay taxes there, to.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But your answer it seems
to me does put the issue squarely before us in the terms
that the Petitioner has presented, that is to say, sure,
suppose you tax the vessel and you tax trailers and
small vessels and a lot of other things, but as to all
of the latter category, you have -- you have an
exemption. So the -- the only people that effectively
pay the tax are the tankers.
MR. OLSON: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I thought that that
was the way the case was presented.
MR. OLSON: No. Well, that is not correct,
if I understood your -- your statement correctly. This
oil and gas property, cranes, heavy equipment, fire
engines, motor vehicles, everything else, including the
people's home in Valdez get taxed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the people's homes
only if they are affixed to the property and they --
MR. OLSON: No, that's with respect to
mobile homes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. OLSON: They are taxed as real property
when they are affixed in that way.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And nonmobile homes are not
taxed as real property?
MR. OLSON: The tax -- cities may impose
taxes as real property or -- or personal property,
Justice Scalia. Some states will tax mobile homes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now, the question is what
is imposed here? My understanding from the yellow
book -- do you agree the yellow brief is accurate in its
factual descriptions, perhaps not in its conclusions
that it draws?
MR. OLSON: No, Justice Kennedy. I have --
I've given you --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: See, we have a problem
with the facts here. But my understanding of the case,
and please correct me if I am wrong, is that sure,
Valdez has tax authority and tax statutes which would
cover a considerable amount of personal property on an
ad valorem basis. But because of exemptions, only the
tankers pay this tax.
MR. OLSON: The -- there are various taxes
imposed by Valdez on personal property and real
property.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was my statement correct?
MR. OLSON: Your statement is correct only
with respect to the ordinance that -- that eliminated
the exception. These big ships that impose enormous
burdens on the municipality, you can only imagine what
three, four hundred --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's a different
argument. Can we just get to --
MR. OLSON: Yes, I know. But these ships
were exempt from taxation in Valdez until the year 1999
when that ordinance that you are referring to,
Justice Kennedy, was adopted. It eliminated --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So was all other personal
property exempt from taxation, they didn't have a
personal property tax, right?
MR. OLSON: Except -- except, under the --
to the extent that that personal property was covered by
the oil and gas tax, the provisions that I have referred
to, Valdez had been imposing that tax.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's nicely targeted as
well. But there is no constitutional impediment to
targeting the people of New Jersey through taxing the
oil equipment.
MR. OLSON: If the Wheeling case is correct
and the other cases that have repeatedly said this,
there is no constitutional impediment for a city or a
state to impose a property tax on property being
used in --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Wheeling -- Wheeling
was, it was a general property tax. And as I read the
case, it said if you are going to tax property, you can
include vessels. This statute, and I think the Alaska
Supreme Court treated it discretely, is a tax on one
kind of property only, these vessels. I don't know of
any other property tax that is confined to just one type
of property. Is there another? Is there a comparable
tax that is focused on a single category of property?
MR. OLSON: There -- well, I -- I think what
my point here with respect to this, Justice Ginsburg, is
I don't know the answer specifically to that question,
but we are looking at what the bundle of taxes that a
community or a state imposes on property used that
imposes a burden on the community. Property is taxed
for the purpose, so that the property owner will bear
the burden of the governmental services that a city has
to impose. It -- there is no constitutional provision
that I am aware of that says that you have to have it
all in one statute, collected -- and there is no
discrimination --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you can't -- you can't
make vessels bear the overall burden of municipal
governance. You can make them bear the burden of the
services provided to them in harbor. But you cannot
make them the instrument of funding all other municipal
services. That's what the Tonnage Clause means.
MR. OLSON: Well, I disagree in part with
what you said, with respect, Justice Scalia; these
shelves pay 11 percent -- vessels pay 11 percent of the
revenue base for the city; 11 percent. This is a city
of 4,500 people.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: How do you define revenue
base?
MR. OLSON: This is the amount of tax
collected by the City of Valdez with respect to the ad
valorem taxes in the city, including ships, mobile
homes, cranes, barges, appliances, real property, and so
forth.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are counting the state
tax as well, right?
MR. OLSON: Pardon me.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are counting the state
tax on oil equipment?
MR. OLSON: I am -- I am saying to you that
the State imposes a tax but the State specifically
allows valid to impose that very tax.
JUSTICE BREYER: That makes matters worse.
MR. OLSON: Valdez imposes that tax as a
part of its total taxation package.
JUSTICE BREYER: Let's suppose I accept just
what Justice Ginsburg said, and said it's a hopeless
morass if we look at all taxes. Let's look at this tax.
This tax you call an ad valorem tax on personal
property levied by Valdez, and then on page 11 of your
brief you say that's not just on ships, it's also on
mobile homes, trailers, recreational vehicles, and
various types of personal property defined under State
law as oil and gas property, motor vehicle, machinery,
supplies and maintenance equipment.
They come back and they say, as to your
mobile homes, trailers and recreational vehicles, all
that's happening there is either you have exempted them
or they are fixed in place, and they are like real
property and that's what you are doing. As to the other
things, you do not impose a tax on those other things.
Rather, the State imposes a tax on those other things.
And it may be that you help the State do it by providing
them with the assessment, and it may be even that you
could do it, but you haven't; and therefore, the only
thing you have imposed this tax on are the ships.
Now I think I have that argument right. If
I do, what's the answer to it?
MR. OLSON: The answer is --
JUSTICE BREYER: If I don't, what's the
right argument?
MR. OLSON: The answer is Section 43.56 that
allows -- the State statute may impose that tax you just
described. And it -- and section 29.
JUSTICE BREYER: May impose doesn't help if
you don't do it.
MR. OLSON: Yes, it does impose it, and
then, Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: State imposes it or --
MR. OLSON: -- section 29.45.080 says -- I am
going to read it exactly; this seems to be an important
point. It doesn't seem to me that it ought to make any
difference from the Tonnage Clause standpoint whether
it's a tax imposed by the State or a subdivision of the
State, but this provision specifically says a
municipality may levy and collect taxes on taxable
property, taxable under AS 43. That's the one. The
State does impose this tax but it also allows the city
to impose it.
This city does impose it. And when it is
paid, that is a credit against what might otherwise be
owed to the State. So the city does impose that tax, it
does collect that tax, and that tax is not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait a minute, owed to the
State for what? What would be owed to the state? It's
still a State tax and they are the collection agent, and
it's a -- a credit against what they owe for their
collections, right?
MR. OLSON: A municipality may levy and
collect taxes on property under this section. The city
levies and collects those taxes. Now --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what's it a credit
against? I don't understand what it's a credit against.
MR. OLSON: The State also imposes the
liability. Any individual community in Alaska may
impose that tax itself. If it does -- Valdez does --
then you don't have to pay it to the State, you pay it
to the city. So it's a city tax. Now --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What does the city get a
credit against?
MR. OLSON: The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- as referred to in the --
MR. OLSON: The taxpayer, once he pays $10
to the city under this tax, doesn't have to pay $10 to
the State under this tax because he gets a credit for --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I thought it was the
city that got the credit --
MR. OLSON: No, it is the taxpayer that gets
the credit. The city levies the tax. The city collects
the tax. And then the taxpayer doesn't have to pay the
State.
JUSTICE BREYER: And that happens with all
these other properties? That is, in Valdez, you pay the
city -- you pay the city -- for the -- for the taxes on
that oil and gas property that isn't shipped?
MR. OLSON: Yes, Justice Breyer. And --
JUSTICE BREYER: And you write the check to
the city.
MR. OLSON: What? Pardon?
JUSTICE BREYER: All the things you listed
on page 11 --
MR. OLSON: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: The -- the oil and gas,
motor vehicles, machinery, appliances, supplies, and
maintenance equipment.
MR. OLSON: Those are money paid to the
city.
JUSTICE BREYER: So they write a check to
the city. Okay.
MR. OLSON: Yes. Now, it shouldn't matter.
The Tonnage Clause prohibits States from imposing a
tonnage tax.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, that's exactly the
question I wanted to ask you. Supposing the city did
not impose any taxes on anybody except the people who
pay this tax, and that's all. Would it -- would it be
constitutional or unconstitutional?
MR. OLSON: No, it would not be. In the
first place --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It would not be
constitutional?
MR. OLSON: It would not be -- it would not
be unconstitutional, Justice Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Oh, but then why is the --
what other people pay on other taxes even relevant?
MR. OLSON: I don't think it is relevant.
The nondiscrimination issue has been introduced by the
Petitioner in this case. It is not in the Tonnage
Clause. It is not in any of the cases decided by this
Court having to do with the Tonnage Clause, having to do
with wharfage fees, pilotage fees, other things having
to do with commercial activity in a --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So we can take as a -- as
a given for the purpose of analyzing the issue, that
this tax is either the only tax that's relevant to our
analysis or that it's so much higher than all the other
taxes, it should be treated as the functional equivalent
as the only tax we have to look at?
MR. OLSON: I'm saying that it would not
make any difference if this was the only tax that the
city imposed unless it was a tonnage tax, and the
tonnage tax -- this Court has repeatedly --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the answer to
Justice Stevens's question is we can take this case as
presenting to us the fact that the ships pay more than
other property?
MR. OLSON: No.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you say that doesn't
make any difference.
MR. OLSON: No, the ships do not pay more.
I don't think it would make any difference if -- if the
city decided to impose a different rate of tax on motor
vehicles than it did on homes or -- or vessels, as long
as it was an ad valorem property tax, and this one is.
The vessels are not based -- the tax is
assessed every year on the replacement value of the
vessels. A big ship that is worth less money because it
would cost less to replace it, because it doesn't have a
double hull or a double bottom, will be taxed -- it will
be taxed greater in proportion to its value. The value
imposed is assessed every year.
There's no challenge here -- it's very
important to understand that there is no challenge by
the Petitioners with respect to the valuations placed on
these ships. There's no contention that the value
placed upon these ships by this ad valorem property tax
is based upon cubic capacity. They have --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But is it -- do you -- do
you contest the point that was made in the reply brief
that back at the end of the 18th century, tonnage was
considered a proxy for value, that it was the customary
mode of measuring the value of a ship?
MR. OLSON: I do contest that,
Justice Ginsburg. The only citation for that is Justice
Miller. Justice Miller is cited for that in a lecture
that he gave after he left the Court. He was on the
court from 1862 to 1890. He joined the Court in the --
in the Inman case, the Wheeling case, the Parkersburg
case, and here's the quote from the Inman -- from the
Clyde Mallory case in 1935, which is quoting the Inman
case from during that period of time. "At the time the
Constitution was adopted, 'tonnage' was a
well-understood commercial term signifying the internal
capacity of the vessel." This Court has said that over
and over again. In the Wheeling case, when it said --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is -- for a
commercial vessel, is a rough calculation of how much
it's worth.
MR. OLSON: It is not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The more cargo you can
carry, the more valuable the commercial ship.
MR. OLSON: That is not correct,
Justice Scalia, and it's -- and it's not correct in this
case. Experts put an assessment on these ships based
upon their replacement value. It may have -- one factor
may be how -- how the ship is constructed, whether it
has a double hull. These have to be Jones Act-compliant
ships. The newer ones are more valuable. If they move
faster, they're more valuable. If they're more
efficient, they have more value. One of these ships in
this case is valued 10 times more as -- higher value --
than a ship that carries more capacity because it's
newer.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But all you're saying --
MR. OLSON: And --
JUSTICE SOUTER: All you're saying is that
there are other factors that -- that preclude using
tonnage simply as a single crude measure. But isn't it
fair to say that, other things being equal -- the engine
capacity, the hull construction, et cetera -- the
tonnage is a rough measurement of the value of the ship,
for just the reason that Justice Scalia gave? It
determines the amount of cargo the ship can carry, and
what it can charge for it, and that is capitalized into
the value of the ship. Isn't that true?
MR. OLSON: Well, if -- if everything else
was equal, the bigger, the more capacity, the more
valuable the vessel might be, that's true. But that --
that is not the case. Different ships are different
sizes. They are made out of different materials. They
have different structural capabilities --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So as long as you are
taxing on the basis of the value of the ship, then you
have no Tonnage Clause problem. Is that your -- the
Tonnage Clause was a specific type of measure, and if
you're taxing based on the assessed value of the
property, it isn't a Tonnage Clause. Is that your --
MR. OLSON: That is what this Court has
said. In the Wheeling case, where we were talking about
steamships, the Court said that same statement that you
just made about an ad valorem tax property tax 10 times.
JUSTICE BREYER: What about a porthole tax?
MR. OLSON: Pardon me?
JUSTICE BREYER: Is a porthole tax in your
view okay?
MR. OLSON: A what?
JUSTICE BREYER: A porthole tax. They
charge for portholes. Anyone who has a porthole who
comes into our city pays taxed. That's not a tonnage
tax.
MR. OLSON: That's not a tonnage tax.
JUSTICE BREYER: So, in your view, a masked
tax.
MR. OLSON: To the extent that the tax is on
a vessel as an instrument of commercial conveyance, what
this Court has said --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, but the porthole tax
applies, by the way, to that ship's captain who has
retired, who has built his house with portholes instead
of windows.
(Laughter.)
MR. OLSON: I have --
JUSTICE BREYER: So there are 2 or 3 percent
of the -- I mean, it's only 99.9 percent on ships.
MR. OLSON: Let's start on the basics.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. OLSON: When the Constitution was
written, the Constitution did not intend to take away
the power from the States to impose taxes. The
provision on the import-export prohibition on the States
and Tonnage Clause was an instrument to protect
commerce. It wasn't an instrument to reduce the power
of States to impose taxes. The baseline is States have
the power to impose taxes unless there's an explicit --
and the court has said narrow -- limitation on that tax
power in the Constitution.
Now, what this Court has said over and over
again, Justice Breyer -- it hasn't had a chance to deal
with portholes -- but it has had a chance to deal with
most of these various earlier cases in the -- in the
1860s and '70s had to do with tax on tonnage. And there
was one case where New Orleans levied a tax just for the
entry and departure of the ship, and the Court said,
well, that's -- that's a tax on the ship as a -- as a
commercial instrument of commerce, and that would be
covered also. But nothing else has been covered.
And the Court has gone out of its way to say
that communities, States, are entitled to tax people
that possess property within their jurisdiction because
of --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, if you --
if you are right that any type of ad valorem tax is
okay, well, then why in the world would the Framers have
adopted a prohibition on a tonnage tax, if you could
just say it's a tax on value, which is going to have the
same impact on commerce?
MR. OLSON: Because -- because, if you are
taxing -- I think that the Court had reasons for the
conclusion it came to. What I'm saying is not what I've
invented; it's what the Court has said repeatedly, that
because property may be taxed as property because the
users and owners of property are the source of revenue
for the communities --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, putting aside
what the Court has said, I'm looking at what the Framers
have said. What good does a tonnage tax prohibition do
--
MR. OLSON: It does --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- if you are right?
MR. OLSON: It -- if it's -- if it's a State
using a tax on a vessel qua vessel as an instrument to
limit commerce, that is something that the Framers did
not want to do. They -- they prohibited taxes --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It offended them
aesthetically?
(Laughter.)
MR. OLSON: No, because -- for --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So all the State has to say
is we are not -- we're not taxing you qua vessel.
(Laughter.)
MR. OLSON: No, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, what --
MR. OLSON: What the Framers were concerned
about and what I was trying to say in response to the
Chief Justice's question is that there was a limitation
on the states' power to tax imports or exports because
of the fact that that would put the states on the coast
at an advantage and they would pass those burdens on to
the inland states. The Tonnage Clause was put there as
a specific provision to implement and -- to prevent the
circumvention of the export/import prohibition.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Olson --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But I suppose you could --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- let me ask you something
about -- about discrimination. Let's assume that I
think it is relevant whether the tax is a discriminatory
tax, property tax just levied on -- on ships or not.
If that is my position, why should I count
as establishing nondiscrimination the fact that Alaska
or Valdez is also taxing -- most of its other property
tax revenue comes from taxing oil equipment, right? And
the burden of all of that tax, just like the burden of
this vessel tax, is paid by people in New Jersey. I
mean, you know, that --
MR. OLSON: You can --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's getting somebody else
to bear the burden of your taxation.
MR. OLSON: If do it would be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Taxing that equipment
raises the price of oil, almost all of which the oil
goes out of Alaska and is paid for by people in other
states. Why should I count that property tax as proving
that either the State of Alaska or Valdez is not being
discriminatory? Just because it -- it can't possibly
violate the -- the Tonnage Clause doesn't mean that it
isn't as much discriminatory against other states.
MR. OLSON: That then might -- that might be
a Due Process Clause problem --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I --
MR. OLSON: But it wouldn't be a Tonnage
Clause problem. I would submit, Justice Scalia, you
would be very upset at the -- at Silicon Valley because
the property tax imposed on Silicon Valley gets all put
on those chips that we used in all of these computers,
and everybody else in the country is using those
computers, so the property that is taxed in that
community is the property that creates the value of that
community.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if -- if California
taxed vessels, I would not allow California to come in
and say, oh, we are just subjecting them to the same tax
that our own citizens are subjected to.
MR. OLSON: And Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I wouldn't let them point
to the Silicon Valley tax.
MR. OLSON: You would -- you would, I
submit, then, say that vessels are exempt from property
tax.
JUSTICE SOUTER: That may be the only way
they can accomplish what they want to. Because as the
Chief Justice's question suggested a moment ago, if in
the 18th century the port of Boston said, "We are not
going to charge tonnage anymore. We are simply going to
tax on the value of the ship," that is going to have
exactly the same effect that a tonnage tax would have.
So maybe exemption is the only way it can be done.
MR. OLSON: Well, it's going to require an
amendment to the Constitution because what the Framers
talked about was a Tonnage Clause, and they were talking
about --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we have said --
MR. OLSON: -- and they did not exempt --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Olson, we -- we have
said it's not just tonnage. It said that the clause
bars states, we said, from imposing a charge even if not
measured by a vessel's tonnage, for the privilege of
entering, trading in or lying in a port. So we have
ruled out the position that it's got to be an
old-fashioned tonnage charge, and can't be based on the
assessed value of the property.
MR. OLSON: Well, I guess I have to resort
to the fact that every time this Court has considered
it, or at least in almost every case, the Court has gone
out of its way to say, they were not intending to
prohibit states from taxing the value of property, if
it's an ad valorem tax.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But -- but in all of
those cases the vessels were being taxed as one item of
property in a general moveable property, personal
property tax. I asked you before, I think, is there any
other tax like this, that -- an ad valorem tax that is
applied to one single category of property?
MR. OLSON: If this -- this is an ad valorem
tax, it has various different statutes and ordinances
that it comes from, but there's ad valorem taxes in
Valdez across the board for all kinds of property.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This statute deals with
one category of property. Is there another statute like
this one?
MR. OLSON: Well, there -- no. This
statute is -- every other statute in the same manner
imposes taxes on property based upon their value. This
was a separate ordinance that decided to remove an
exemption that had existed for 27 years --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was the other, the
State taxes were no part of the Alaska Supreme Court's
decision in this case.
MR. OLSON: Well, I think what we are
talking about is whether or not this community can
impose a tax on the people that own property in this
community. There's no denial that there is a property
tax situs here. The average length of the time in port
of these ships was 45 days. The entire fleet has a tax
situs in Valdez. So this property, like other property
in the same manner, is being taxed by the City of
Valdez.
The Wheeling case was a case a little bit
like this in the sense that it was West Virginia that
passed a statute that allowed Wheeling to impose the tax
on steam ships.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And on what else? In
that -- in that tax that was before the port. What else
did Wheeling tax?
MR. OLSON: The only thing that the Court
talked about because it was -- like this it was an
as-applied case, the taxpayer was wanting a refund from
the taxes and the taxpayer owned steam ships that --
that went back and forth from Wheeling. And the Court
talked about the fact that this wasn't a Tonnage Clause,
this was a state-authorized municipal -
JUSTICE BREYER: What about the Greer? You
haven't mentioned that. Greer in Norris v. City of
Boston. Where he says the -- you know what it says;
it's on the front page of their brief. All right. That
seemed to me to say, don't interpret the Tonnage Clause
to apply to tonnage. Interpret it, same thing as if it
was mass, it's mariners, power of the steam engine,
number of passengers, the master or owner of the
vessel -- all those fall within the Tonnage Clause.
That's what the paragraph seems to say.
MR. OLSON: And what -- what the thrust of
the overall bulk of the cases including the language by
this Court repeatedly is that property taxation based
upon the value of property, not imposing a value -- not
imposing a tax on the ship. There are various ways I
suppose one could say that every time a ship enters a
harbor without developing a tax situs -- I think Justice
Alito's question focused on that -- this is not --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask a --
MR. OLSON: You don't get charged a fee for
entering the port. Or one of those cases when --
imposes a tax because -- it called it a wharfage tax,
but you didn't have to touch the wharf to pay the tax.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you a
question that I don't' think has come up, but I just
wondered if anybody has argued this. The duty of
tonnage, it seems to me, might refer to the cargo rather
than the ship. So if the ship made ten voyages it might
have ten times the tonnage of another vessel of exactly
the same value. Has anybody argued that that's what the
Tonnage Clause refers to?
MR. OLSON: I think -- I think you're
correct, Justice Stevens, that what the Framers were
concerned about was a substitute for -- export or import
tax by taxing what was in the ship, and that tonnage
referred to that, but it wasn't the value of the vessel
itself because the Court -- the Framers wouldn't have
wanted to take away the power of the states to tax
commercial activity using property in their communities
in the same manner that they taxed other property.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If that's all it applied
to, then the wharfage tax would have been perfectly
okay. You can't say that was --
MR. OLSON: The wharfage tax -- the wharfage
tax has been upheld by this Court frequently. The only
reason why it was struck down in that case is that you
didn't have to put into the wharf. So the Court knew it
wasn't really a wharfage tax, but if it was really a
wharfage tax, the Court has upheld it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Rothfeld, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Your Honor. A
couple of quick points. First on this confusing
question of what the State of Alaska does in the nature
of its tax. Mr. Olson began by -- by saying the State
of Alaska imposes this tax through the City of Valdez.
That is right. It is a tax imposed by the State of
Alaska that is collected by the City of Valdez. If the
city did not collect the tax, it would go directly to
the State of Alaska. It is an Alaska tax.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where -- where does
the money go? If the City of Valdez collects it, where
does it go?
MR. ROTHFELD: If the city collects it, it
keeps it, but it has been authorized to do that by the
State.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then I think
we ought to regard it as a city tax, not a State tax.
MR. ROTHFELD: Uh --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They collect it;
they keep it; that sounds like a city tax.
MR. ROTHFELD: But it -- it is imposed by
the State. The State decides decide what subject it
has. It identifies the property that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I suppose the
State can regulate what cities and municipalities and
counties can do throughout the State. That doesn't make
everything those cities and counties do the actions of
the State.
MR. ROTHFELD: That -- that's true, but this
particular tax is a tax that is imposed by the State at
the State level. It -- it's notable that Valdez has
never before, until we reached this Court, said that
this is a -- that it is taxing oil and gas property.
The property is subject to tax by the State. The State
authorizes Valdez to collect the tax, but it is imposed
by the tax -- the city -- the State determines which
items are subject to tax. So this is out of Valdez's
discretion. Valdez chose to tax only particular types
of personal property, and that is vessels.
Second, on the question of what the Tonnage
Clause was designed to do and -- and the Wheeling case,
Wheeling says that a property tax is okay when the tax
is imposed on vessels the same as other property owned
by its citizens. That is not what is going on here.
Contemporaneous understanding of the rule at the time
was that taxes that singled out vessels were
unconstitutional. We cite authority for this
proposition in our reply brief.
To -- to address Justice Ginsburg's question
as to whether there were other taxes like this, we have
not found any other tax anywhere that has been imposed
singling out vessels as -- for -- for property taxation.
Either now or in the past, we have not found any case
addressing that, not only not in this Court, but in any
other court.
And then finally --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What about the -- the
broader tax situation at the -- at the -- in -- in 1789?
Did -- did ports have sources of -- or exercise the
authority at that time to tax property generally, e.g.,
real estate in the city to support the activities of the
ports, or were they dependent solely upon things like
import-export taxes, et cetera?
MR. ROTHFELD: My -- my understanding is
that real estate certainly was subject to tax and that
ports would have the authority to tax other types of
property. Vessels were set aside as a particular item
by the Tonnage Clause.
JUSTICE SOUTER: So -- so that the argument
they are taxing other things, therefore it's okay to tax
this, would have been an argument just as potent in the
18th century or impotent, as the case may be, as it is
now?
MR. ROTHFELD: That's right.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay.
MR. ROTHFELD: And so setting aside vessels
in a -- in a unique category when other things could be
taxed would have been problematic --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How -- under your
view, how is a city supposed to impose a property tax on
a vessel?
MR. ROTHFELD: It -- it should impose a tax
by imposing a tax on personal property generally. And
if it does, it would fall on vessels as items of
personal property. It -- it is significant -- well, if
I may, Your Honor, just to finish, what Valdez has -- it
could have taxed all of that types of -- or it could
have taxed particular types of it. But it has seized on
only one particular type of personal property to be
subject to taxation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- so you think
we should resolve the tax by seeing how generally
applicable property taxes are in Valdez?
MR. ROTHFELD: I -- I think it's an easy
case when, as in this situation, there is only one item
of property that is taxed, and that's a vessel.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but your --
your brother suggests that other items of property are
taxed under other provisions of the tax ordinance.
MR. ROTHFELD: Again, Valdez does not. The
State does. Valdez does not. And so I think that there
is no need for the Court to go beyond and decide how
broadly applicable -- as I suggested earlier, our test
would be predominantly on vessels it is
unconstitutional, and that clearly is the case here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Your Honor.
(Whereupon, at 11:20 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled case was submitted.)
59:22 22:12 29:25 30:23 45:16 57:9,22 58:3 beyond 59:14
34:12 38:18 23:5 53:14 authorized 56:1 41:25
Alaska's 14:19 26:2 aware 35:2 52:20
54:22 allows 16:6 36:5 approximately b 1:17 2:5 14:10 bottom 42:2
amendment April 1:9 back 6:8 10:21 14:1,6,23,25
36:12 amount 8:7 argument 1:12 42:13 53:6 30:14 33:12
42:9 24:23 27:4 2:2,7 3:4,7 bad 12:21 36:6,9 37:8,13
46:25 32:25 35:18 11:13 18:9 barges 29:20 37:16,17 39:10
44:6 29:2 33:13 30:24 35:21 39:14,15,18,21
57:11 analyzing 41:2 arguments 11:6 16:14,16,16 45:21,24 46:11
answer 15:7 aside 47:12 58:4 41:23 42:10 16:14 32:16
47:2 28:8 29:16 asked 14:16 51:7 52:5 53:12 57:10
37:6,7,10 aspect 15:19 baseline 46:6 bring 18:14
anybody 28:23 14:13 basics 45:23 broader 57:20
32:16 apples 16:22 43:12 bear 34:24 35:6 bundle 34:21
applicable 8:5 21:3 48:18 behalf 1:15,17 35:6,7 48:25
6:6,16,21 24:17,20 30:17 benefits 18:20 33:10 48:11
13:22 applied 51:20 authority 5:18 28:20,21 business 30:3
16:3,6,8 54:24 7:8 12:5 15:8 berth 27:24 28:1
59:22 chosen 6:1,1 24:22 25:14,16 54:22
54:4 circumvention 44:17,18,20 community
54:5 51:20 52:1 cite 57:9 50:22 51:2 50:1 52:12,14
century 8:13 citizens 50:5 23:19 computers
23:2,23 24:8 42:13 city 1:6 3:5,16 clearest 25:15 concede 7:24
24:7 50:15 58:9 4:2,4,6 5:5,10 clearly 59:17 concededly
43:2,20 certain 8:7 5:13,18 7:3,9 close 9:21 25:12
certainly 58:2 8:16 10:3,6 Clyde 42:23 concept 11:8
24:18 change 10:11 25:1,6 30:4,5,8 15:2,3 16:7 9:4,20 21:20
44:6 charge 3:13 30:8,14,18,22 37:24 38:6,13 22:19 48:6
18:17 20:4 34:6,25 35:14 55:20 56:6,22 54:17
51:3,7 38:21,22 39:2 collection 38:9 32:17
8:19 11:15 CHARLES 1:15 40:7 41:9,20 collects 14:12 confined 34:15
17:23 2:3,8 3:7 55:11 45:7 52:18 38:14 39:7 confusing 55:14
20:1 check 39:15 53:10 55:17,19 55:23,25 connection 3:16
22:22 40:1 55:20,23,25 come 6:8 12:17 consider 24:18
25:16 Chief 3:3,9 7:23 56:4,7,23 24:25 36:19 considerable
29:6 8:3,25 9:2 57:23 58:17 50:3 54:8 32:25
31:21 12:19,24 16:25 city's 19:16 comes 11:9 45:7 considered
34:4,11 20:18,21 22:25 city-imposed 48:24 51:23 42:14 51:10
41:12 23:10,15 24:17 16:16 commendably consists 30:21
28:25 29:4 city-owned 4:16 12:13 constitutes 3:20
43:3,12 46:24 47:12,17 clause 3:12 5:7 commerce 3:17 Constitution
44:12,22 48:8 50:14 8:12 9:21,22 9:5,20 46:5,18 22:1,20 23:11
51:11 55:8,22 56:3,6 17:2 18:11 47:4,20 42:25 45:25
56:11 58:16 19:5 20:5,7,25 commercial 46:1,9 50:21
55:4 57:3 59:3,9,18 21:2,4,10,25 4:15 27:2,21 constitutional
34:1,6 26:3 27:5,16 decides 56:9 different 5:9 7:6 27:19,21 28:18
40:10,14 28:18 29:5,6 deciding 15:24 11:2 17:22 double 42:2,2
41:10 42:19,20 decisions 11:25 33:12 41:20 draw 24:6
44:21,23 45:14 define 13:12 51:22 dry 26:1
47:6,8,13 defined 14:10 17:5 Due 3:16 28:12
53:6,21 54:20 definition 5:6 directed 4:13,18 duties 11:3
57:16,17 59:14 definitive 23:20 direction 7:2 12:6,7 17:3
22:7 25:7 52:9 27:24 28:4 directly 12:5 D.C 1:8,15,17
covered 7:16 denominator disagree 35:11 E
creates 49:25 departure 46:16 discourage 46:13 59:15
credit 30:10,10 dependent discrete 5:19 easy 59:6
15:22 38:23 39:3,5,7 depending discretion 16:9 effect 18:16
32:23 crew 25:10 11:17 13:1,24 56:25 50:18
34:4 crude 44:1 describe 18:25 discriminated effectively 31:17
54:16 cruise 7:15,18 described 14:1 21:15 efficient 43:18
55:8 customary descriptions 5:6 48:19 elements 21:3
42:14 32:17 49:12,14 eliminated 33:8
D 9:21 19:7 21:4 dispute 18:19 enacted 13:1
daily 20:3,4 determines 16:3 distinction 24:6 12:15
days 18:5,6 56:23 dock 4:15 26:1 53:15
9:13 11:3 59:14 difference 30:13 dollars 10:8,13 54:4
20:16,23 decided 40:22 37:21 41:8,17 10:21 enters 11:20
24:18 41:20 52:6 41:19 domicile 27:18 12:9 53:24
52:16 exercise 57:21 finally 57:18 13:6,7,18 14:4 47:3 50:16,16
expenses 25:11 fine 19:6 16:10,19 29:18 good 47:14
46:21 explicit 46:7 fire 31:24 30:2,20 31:24 governance 35:7
34:3 19:16 54:17 fiscal 6:23 34:10 51:17 34:25
39:23
49:7 24:3 48:9 fishermen 31:5 23:21 57:22 Greer 53:9,10
41:5 48:14 31:3 geography 22:4 guaranteed 3:14
45:12 flat 20:19,24 49:4 guess 51:9
3:15 flow 9:5 19:18 20:15 half 10:12,16
17:20 27:23 28:2 36:21
f 14:10 19:22 34:17 36:10 42:11,17 14:5 39:10
fact 9:6 18:2 focusing 21:2 51:1,15,25 11:10,20 12:9
22:5,14 53:7 fraction 26:10 give 13:15 15:3 harmed 21:9
40:6 factor 43:13 fragile 6:18 25:20 28:15 hear 3:3
54:12 factors 43:25 Framers 8:11 given 10:1 32:20 heavy 31:24
27:8 factual 32:17 19:17 21:20,25 giving 9:3 29:10
fall 9:15 14:5 24:21 47:1,13 15:23 18:10 high 25:25 26:20
7:20 falls 4:18 7:20 50:21 54:16,20 30:11 55:20,23 higher 41:4
25:17 9:18 free 9:5,20 55:24 59:14 43:19
fee 19:4,7 20:14 full 12:16,17 11:10 12:25 homes 29:19
50:19 fees 31:9 40:24 22:9,11 24:1 41:21
40:24 G 24:12,24 26:19 Honor 6:20 7:18
33:1 fight 18:1,2 gas 5:20 6:16,22 34:11 37:19 55:13 58:23
7:19 8:20,21 intend 46:1 14:25 15:17 Justice's 24:17
33:4 37:4,22 interpret 53:13 20:21 21:1,14 keeps 56:1
56:8,17,22 40:20 23:15 24:2,5 29:11,14,23
invalid 13:1 24:12,15,23 31:11,20 32:14
33:10 38:17 52:5 31:12 40:20 31:2,4,7,11,20 19:14 34:14
8:15 9:12 51:16 58:4 33:12,17,18,25 knew 12:12 55:5
33:24 40:4 items 16:4 56:24 35:12,16,23 14:2 15:17,23
42:6 30:24 34:12 jewelry 5:24 41:1,11,12,16 knows 12:15,16
48:9 13:8 Jones 43:15 43:4,8,11,22 L
22:1 46:3 including 4:5 jurisdiction 44:25 45:2,5 large 11:17
7:15 16:19 5:23 25:12,23 45:10,15,21,24 late 8:13 23:6
11:2 13:9 35:20 53:20 28:10 29:21 47:17,22 48:1 23:14 45:19
19:4,11 incorporated 46:22 48:4,5,15,16 47:24 48:3
20:12 27:22 jurisdictions 48:17 49:4,7 law 16:8 36:17
25:2,6,21 individual 38:18 11:2 49:17,19 50:2 laws 10:24 11:11
32:11 initially 8:10 Justice 3:3,9,18 50:6,7,12,24 11:16
34:7 35:1 inland 48:12 4:8,20 5:2,11 51:1,15,25 leave 13:4 22:23
37:11 Inman 42:21,22 6:3,11,17 7:1 52:8,24 53:9 23:12
38:1 42:23 7:12,15,23 8:3 53:25 54:2,7 leaving 22:12
innumerable 8:25 9:2,25 54:16,24 55:8 lecture 42:18
41:20 5:25 10:10,17,23 55:22 56:3,6 left 9:22 13:17
52:13 instrument 35:9 11:4,21 12:1 56:11 57:11,19 13:19 42:19
58:17,19 45:13 46:4,5 12:19,24 13:3 58:6,12,16 legislation 6:19
45:23 Mallory 42:23 money 13:13,15 newer 43:16,21 55:1 57:4 58:7
manner 29:13 14:14 39:24 nicely 33:25 58:12
54:23 morass 36:11 40:20 48:22 11:15 28:3
48:20 masked 45:10 motive 12:22 7:25 9:8 19:12 51:7
mean 6:5 7:24 moveables number 24:24 36:7 37:7,10
28:5 means 3:25 4:3 23:7 24:17 numerator 26:6 39:24 40:3,11
52:20 18:9 35:10 26:13 27:12 40:15,19 41:7
measuring 9:12 municipality 6:7 occasions 20:24 47:18,25 48:4
44:15 members 25:10 37:24 38:12 oh 39:4 40:17 49:15,18 50:6
12:2 53:10 N oil 5:20 6:16,22 51:1,9,21 52:3
41:6 miles 26:7,8,9 N 2:1,1 3:1 7:11,13,21 52:11 53:2,19
million 10:8,13 narrow 46:8 12:17 13:6,7 55:16
minute 38:7 need 15:20 25:25 29:17,19 19:24
never 10:21 33:23 34:3 29:2
39:22 mode 42:15 21:4,5,9 26:13 49:8,8 56:20 33:8,16 52:6
passing 25:13 place 26:19 27:2 predominantly 19:12,14,18
26:3 31:5,6,7,10,18 placed 42:7,9 present 25:22 26:5,11 28:13
39:8,11,12 24:18 31:21 29:15,18,20
pays 39:1 45:7 12:4,5,5,18 prevent 48:13 33:5,19,20,22
53:16 people's 32:1,2 Polar 1:3 3:4 principally 7:21 36:17,23 37:25
16:15 political 19:15 privilege 3:13 41:14,22 42:9
39:19 period 42:24 25:1 28:2 49:16,19 50:10 51:8,13
periods 28:22 50:15 51:5 problematic 51:17,17,18,20
49:1,9 19:14 29:13 porthole 44:25 proceeds 7:3 52:13,14,17,17
33:18,20,22 portholes 45:6 28:12 49:16 54:23 56:10,20
45:1 57:1 58:20,22 ports 20:11 21:6 prohibit 51:13 57:14,22 58:4
personalty 5:22 58:3 47:21 59:1,5,8,10
36:8 Petitioner 1:4 48:21 51:6 47:2,14 48:14 proposition 12:2
1:16 2:4,9 3:8 possess 46:22 prohibits 40:4 57:10
25:11 55:12 25:6 property 4:17 46:4
58:4 Petitioners 42:7 possibly 49:12 4:17,25 5:4,14 provide 19:7,24
59:1 Philadelphia potent 58:8 5:17,19,20,22 provided 18:20
physical 26:4,5 48:9 53:15 6:25 8:17,21 providing 28:19
pieces 5:14 practice 11:24 13:17,18,19 provision 30:15
rationale 21:7 55:10 48:24 53:12 saying 12:13
42:14 reached 56:19 remand 29:24 risk 6:24 7:1 27:7 36:3 41:7
34:10 37:19 remits 14:12 7:23 8:3,25 9:2 55:16
24:19 33:4 35:21 repeatedly 34:5 20:21 22:25 14:11 16:15
58:2 53:21 46:24 47:12,17 37:18,23 53:11
43:12 12:11 15:15 replacement 56:11 58:16 Scalia 6:3,11,17
49:21 really 4:9 6:4 41:24 43:13 59:3,9,18 7:15 16:24
17:5 21:13 reply 3:21 42:12 Rothfeld 1:15 17:8,15,18,25
55:6 require 50:20 4:3,10,23 5:8 20:11 22:6,11
9:11 2:7 55:11 34:19 35:12,19 12:23 13:2,23 38:22,25 39:4
12:10 recipients 21:11 42:7 14:3,22,24 43:4,8,11 44:5
14:16 recognized 19:4 Respondent 15:5 16:1,17 47:22 48:1,4,5
21:2 23:5 recover 25:1 1:18 2:6 29:3 17:3,11,17,20 48:15,17 49:4
25:19 recreational Respondent's 18:4,8,15,23 49:7,17,19
29:7,16 36:15,20 3:24 19:2,21 20:6 50:2,6,7 54:24
32:14 red 3:19 16:14 response 5:12 20:10,20,23 scenario 21:15
40:7 reduce 46:5 9:11 11:12 21:1,11,17,24 seas 25:25 26:20
48:8 refer 25:8 54:10 12:10 48:7 22:10,14,18 27:15
54:1,8 reference 16:14 responses 11:14 23:4,12,20 second 6:9 19:11
57:2,11 referred 16:14 rest 13:14 15:3 24:10,14,16 57:2
54:19 result 7:4,5 27:16,21,25 29:25 30:4
15:24 refers 30:16 35:14,16 47:10 56:8,16 58:1 see 17:5 25:3
8:18 9:19 12:20 rough 43:5 44:4 seen 23:1
40:19 41:3 28:9 31:2 sentence 14:20
34:25 23:6 24:8 standpoint steamships 31:14 36:9
44:1 37:21 44:23 48:16 53:24
10:4
11:9,11 sit 28:8 13:15 14:12 stewardship 31:13 32:23
13:20 situation 5:9 16:2,8,11,12 6:21 system 15:21
18:3 17:22 57:20 21:8,9,14 30:1 straightforward 16:2
24:9 59:7 30:9,11,14,18 26:5
26:20 situs 11:8 28:22 34:7,22 35:23 struck 55:4 T
28:1,10 52:15,17 53:25 36:1,4,4,16,25 structural 44:14 T 2:1,1
41:25 sizes 44:13 37:1,11,17,22 subcategories take 4:21 5:2 7:2
43:9,14 small 4:14 25:1 37:23 38:1,5,8 14:10 10:15,17 12:17
44:4,6,8 25:23 31:15 38:8,9,17,20 subcategory 14:8 27:8 41:1
46:16,17 solely 57:24 39:3,9 47:18 13:17 41:12 46:1
53:23,24 somebody 22:17 48:1 49:11 subdivision 54:21
49:4 52:9 55:15,16 37:22 takes 6:19,21
16:22 56:4,9,9,12,13 5:20 10:7 talk 3:21 8:4
sounds 56:7 56:21,23 59:13 16:3,4,5,11 50:22 53:3,7
13:8
31:23 33:6,7 56:9,21,24 16:22 30:20
17:1 sources 57:21 44:23 58:2 59:2 44:22 50:22
21:8 SOUTER 4:20 states 1:1,12 subjected 23:22 52:12
27:23,25 5:2,11 7:1 9:25 20:11 21:5,17 50:5 tanker 10:1
30:25 10:10,17,23 22:2,5,7,7 subjecting 50:4 tankers 1:3 3:4
33:9,14 11:4,21 12:1 23:17 30:16,16 submit 49:19 5:5,5 7:13,21
36:14 20:17 24:5,12 32:13 40:4 50:10 10:9 12:16,16
41:13,18 24:15 43:22,24 46:2,3,6,6,21 submitted 59:19
25:23
43:12
57:19 48:9,10,12 59:22 30:24 31:18
44:12 58:6,12 49:10,14 51:3 substantial 23:7 33:2
48:20 speaking 23:21 51:13 54:21 substitute 54:17 tankful 10:12,16
53:5 specific 44:18 state-authoriz... suggest 12:20,25 target 12:13,14
25:23,24 statutes 4:21 39:22 4:17,17 5:1,6
6:1,2,4,25 42:9 44:24,24 29:20,20,20 58:7,14 24:7,15,20,21
44:25 45:2,5,8 30:7 31:7,10 think 3:25 4:3 24:22 25:8,14
8:5,9,10 45:9,11,12,15 32:12 33:3 4:11,11,23,23 25:16 29:9,10
46:8,14,15,17 34:21 35:20 4:24 5:13 6:13 35:10 37:21
46:21,25 47:2 36:11 37:24 6:15,23 8:2,4 40:4,5,21,23
47:3,14,19 38:13,14 39:12 8:23,25 9:2 41:9,10 42:13
48:9,19,20,20 40:8,18 41:5 10:16 11:1,15 42:25 44:1,4
48:24,25 49:1 46:2,6,7 47:21 11:18 12:9 44:17,18,20
13:6 49:10,21 50:4 51:23 52:5,9 15:6,18 16:22 45:7,9 46:4,14
50:8,11,17,18 53:5 57:8,12 17:15,17 19:1 47:2,14 48:12
51:14,18,19,19 57:25 59:5 20:3 23:24 49:13,18 50:16
51:22 52:13,15 taxing 5:14 9:23 30:12 34:12,18 50:18,22 51:2
52:16,22,25 18:13 19:3 37:5 40:19 51:4,7 53:7,13
53:1,23,25 26:8 27:17 41:19 47:6 53:14,17 54:10
54:5,5,6,18,21 30:16 34:2 48:19 51:18 54:12,14,18
54:25 55:2,3,6 44:16,19 47:6 52:11 53:25 57:2 58:5
55:7,16,17,18 48:2,23,24 54:8,15,15 tons 8:6
18:2,10 55:20,21 56:4 49:7 51:13 56:3 59:3,6,13 total 26:9 36:8
56:4,7,17,17 54:18 56:20 thinks 15:23 touch 54:6
56:21,22,23,24 58:7 thought 9:22 trade 25:17
20:1,1,1 56:25 57:4,4 taxpayer 39:1,6 24:5 31:20 trading 3:13
21:19 57:13,20,22 39:8 53:4,5 39:4 18:17 20:13
24:12 58:2,3,7,17,19 telling 3:23 three 33:11 55:9 51:5
25:13 58:20 59:4,11 ten 54:11,12 thrust 53:19 trailers 31:14
taxability 26:23 term 8:11 43:1 time 3:22 6:9 36:15,20
taxable 37:24,25 terminal 16:20 8:12,12 25:24 train 26:13,16
28:11 taxation 5:20 terms 10:3 17:6 26:14 27:4,9 26:18 27:8,12
9:23 26:22 23:2 24:19 27:12,14,18 transcontinen...
29:9,18 29:12 30:22 31:12 28:9 42:24,24 26:13 27:8
30:1,5,6 33:15,19 36:8 test 8:23 19:22 51:10 52:15 transport 12:15
49:5 53:21 59:15 53:24 57:7,22 transportation
57:14 59:2 Texas 27:20,22 times 26:10 17:12,13 30:3
taxed 4:21 5:4,5 27:24 28:1 43:19 44:24 traveled 26:8,9
32:11 5:17 9:6 10:25 Thank 3:9 28:25 54:12 treated 11:7
16:10 17:13 55:8,13 59:18 today 21:16 34:13 41:5
19:19 32:1,7 59:20 tonnage 3:12 5:7 treatment 12:6
32:10 34:23 THEODORE 8:5,9,10,11,13 treats 6:16
35:18 42:2,3 45:7 1:17 2:5 29:2 8:17,20 9:9,21 tremendous
36:2,4,5 47:9 49:24 theory 26:22 10:24 11:3,7 6:22
50:3 51:16 thing 6:5 37:4 11:11,15,19 trip 26:19
37:4 52:18 54:23 53:2,14 12:6,8 13:21 truck 8:6
38:1 58:15,24,25 things 5:25 16:9 13:24 16:25 trucks 5:24 8:18
59:8,11 23:18 29:21 17:2 18:11 true 44:8,11
39:2,3,7 taxes 4:1,4,5 30:19 31:15 19:5 20:5,6,16 56:16
40:5,9 6:12 18:14 36:24,24,25 20:24 21:2,4 trying 20:12
22:17 23:22 39:18 40:24 21:10,25 22:20 48:7
29:7,15,19,19 44:2 57:24 22:24 23:2,18 two 8:6 11:14
18:8 Valdez 1:6 3:5 44:8,16,19 57:1,5,8,14 West 52:21
30:5 3:11,13 4:2,5,7 47:3 49:25 58:4,13,21 we're 48:2
44:18 5:21 7:7,9 8:16 52:5 53:22,22 vessel's 51:4 wharfage 40:24
59:1 10:2,3,20,22 54:13,19 view 7:4,5 45:3 54:5,25 55:2,2
23:22 16:7,9,20 values 3:15,15 viewed 23:18 Wheeling 29:6
56:25 18:18,20 19:1 25:22 views 3:23 34:4,9,9 42:21
19:3,10,13 valuing 8:14 violate 5:7 17:2 43:3 44:22
22:5 vans 5:24 8:18 20:6 29:8,10 52:20,22 53:1
30:7,8,9,18,22 46:13 51:22 visited 10:20 wishes 14:14
20:15 33:15,24 35:19 vehicle 36:17 words 8:4
57:9 36:7,13 38:19 vehicles 31:25 W works 16:2
39:11 48:23 36:15,20 39:22 Wait 38:7 world 6:6 47:1
16:13 52:17,19 55:17 vessel 3:11 10:7 13:6 15:3 worse 36:6
42:6 55:19,23 56:18 12:9 20:21 22:22,23 25:20 worth 10:8
32:15 59:5,12,13 31:14 43:2,5 wanted 12:12,14 wouldn't 10:24
57:7 Valdez's 31:4 44:11 45:13 25:1 40:7 49:18 50:7
56:24 47:19,19 48:2 54:21 54:20
Valley 49:20,21 54:12,19 58:18 wants 13:14,16 writing 24:22
15:9 42:9 44:24 7:14,20,22 way 3:14 8:14 32:23
51:21,23 9:18,19,24 13:18 14:6 X
value 8:14 10:13 19:23 20:2,4 50:12,19 51:12 25:24 27:5,11
25:7 24:12 26:10,15 29:7,11 30:23 Wednesday 1:9 years 52:7
42:3,3,8 35:6,13 41:21 well-understood York 18:13 21:5
2:9
1:5 3:4
30:21
1:9 14:9
43:19 44:24 70 30:21
1:13 3:2 70s 46:14
3:20,25,25 9
35:13,13 99.9 45:22
36:13
59:21
16:15
57:20
8:13 10:24
23:6
42:13
58:9
46:14
42:20
42:20
11:24
42:23
33:15
14:9 45:21
13:9 26:14,15
1:9
52:7
2:6 37:12
30:4
37:18
2:4 14:11
26:9
35:15
37:25
29:25 30:4
