IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND :
WATER CONSERVATION :
DISTRICT, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 08-304
UNITED STATES, EX REL. :
KAREN T. WILSON. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, November 30, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR., ESQ., Solicitor
General, Raleigh, N.C.; on behalf of the Petitioners.
MARK T. HURT, ESQ., Abingdon, Va.; on behalf of the
Respondent.
DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ., Assistant to the
Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington,
D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
MARK T. HURT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 22
DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondent 35
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 49
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:03 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 08-304, Graham County Soil
and Water Conservation District v. The United States, ex
rel. Wilson.
Mr. Browning.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. BROWNING: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The issue in this case is whether the word
"administrative" as used in the public disclosure bar of
the False Claims Act includes State audits and reports
or is limited to Federal sources.
If this Court were to hold that a relator
can simply copy a State report or a State criminal
indictment and then proceed with a qui tam action, there
will be a proliferation of opportunistic qui tam actions
brought under this statute.
Such construction of the statute would have
a devastating effect upon States, local governments, and
the Federal fisc.
Much of the work of State government
involves cooperative Federal and State programs. States
have been an effective partner in fighting against fraud
and abuse with respect to those programs. For example,
many States have turned to computerized software to
identify irregularities in connection with Medicaid
billings. California has implemented a process of
analyzing both its Medicare and its Medicaid databases
in order to identify doctors who bill in excess of
24 hours in a given day.
Under the decision below, that investigatory
work can simply be copied by a qui tam plaintiff and an
action brought based upon that public report. The
result is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But under your proposal a
State that itself is guilty of fraud can, in effect,
immunize -- if not immunize itself, at least render the
information unusable by conducting a hearing.
MR. BROWNING: Well, Your Honor, the
government certainly argues that it would result in
State and local governments immunizing themselves from
qui tam liability.
With respect to States, the Fourth Circuit's
decision expressly includes reports of the State
government. States, of course, are not liable under the
qui tam provisions, as a result of this Court's decision
in Vermont Department of Natural Resources v. United
States ex rel. Stevens.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it's also the
original source, if -- if the relator is the original
source of the information.
MR. BROWNING: Yes -- yes, Justice Ginsburg,
that -- even if there is a State report that a -- that
a -- is in the public domain, a local government could
still be sued under that document, if -- in spite of
that document, by either the United States or a qui tam
plaintiff that stands as an original source. So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what about the
argument that Congress wanted to, in its most recent
provisions, wanted to expand qui tam availability and
this would -- if you would -- if you include State and
local reports, that will shrink the availability?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, there is no
question that Congress looked at the pre-1986 public
disclosure bar, the provisions that existed between 1943
and 1986, and during that time frame an action, a qui
tam action, would be barred if it was based upon
information that was available to the -- the Federal
Government.
Congress decided that that cut off too many
qui tam actions, and as a result it reached a
compromise. Many members of Congress wanted to totally
eliminate the government knowledge bar. On the other
hand, the United States Department of Justice at the
time was arguing that the existing bar should remain in
effect as a result of abusive and frivolous qui tam
actions and their concern with respect to that. So a
compromise was reached in which the bar was completely
changed. It was changed to allow for a -- for an
original source to bring the qui tam action, essentially
a relief valve that addressed Congress's concerns with
respect to cases such as United States ex rel.
Wisconsin v. Dean.
It also in the 1986 amendments set out
specific sources of information and directly identified
the type of public information that a qui tam action can
be based upon. That list, of course, includes many
sources that might or might not be readily available to
the United States Government. For example, it includes
reports by a news media. A -- an obscure article in a
weekly publication of limited circulation does not
realistically put the government on notice of a
particular fraud.
The same can be true -- said with regard to
an action filed in Federal court, a private action
between civil litigants based upon diversity
jurisdiction. If that -- if there is a summary judgment
motion filed in that case and there are a number of
depositions, one of which might indicate fraud, that are
filed in that summary judgment motion and the case
settles, that -- there will never be -- that summary
judgment motion wouldn't be reviewed by the Federal
district court judge. But still, there is no question
that the filing of that document with the Federal court
would constitute a public disclosure under the first
clause of the public disclosure bar.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It would be a -- would it
be a civil hearing? A deposition -- you would consider
a deposition to be a civil hearing?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, I am referring to
a deposition that is actually filed with the court in
connection with the summary judgment motion and the case
then settles. Generally, the -- the courts have --
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what provision
would it come under?
MR. BROWNING: Justice Scalia, the phrase
"criminal, civil, or administrative hearing." The
courts have consistently read that word "hearing" as --
as including all courts' proceedings, not simply the
hearing itself, documents that are filed with the
clerk's office --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Documents are -- documents
are a hearing?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, the -- if
Congress had meant to limit that word "hearing" to
literally in-person oral arguments or in-person
testimony, it -- the result would be that a criminal
indictment could be copied by a qui tam plaintiff and an
action brought based upon that.
That, of course, was this Court's decision
in United States ex rel. Marcus v. Hess. The -- it is
clear from the congressional history that Congress
wanted to change that result by -- so Congress used the
word "hearing" that obviously meant more than -- than
simply --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Meant more than hearing?
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor, and that's
the part of the problem, is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's an argument that
doesn't go very far with me. I mean, "hearing" means
hearing.
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, the -- the
problem is -- is that Congress really did not speak very
clearly at all with respect to the False Claims Act, and
so we're -- we're left with this mess of trying to
figure out exactly what Congress intended.
The phrase --
JUSTICE ALITO: In your view, must an
administrative report be a report that is generated by
some government unit? Could it be a report by the
administration of a university, for example?
MR. BROWNING: Justice Alito, the
Petitioners would not read that phrase as -- that
broadly. When the Congress has used the word
"administrative hearing," that would appear to indicate
action by the government.
And, under any of the dictionary definitions
of "administration," clearly a State administrative
proceeding, a State administrative report, would fall
within the scope of the dictionary definition. We don't
believe the Court needs to read that language as
including private hospitals, private universities.
JUSTICE ALITO: But I'm not sure why.
You -- if -- unless "administrative" is informed by the
other adjectives in that prepositional phrase, "in a
congressional, administrative, or Government Accounting
Office," presumably GAO, "report," it -- unless that is
the -- you know, unless it's informed by those other
references, and that's why it has to be governmental,
I'm not sure how you limit "administrative" to
governmental reports.
MR. BROWNING: Well, Your Honor, the public
disclosure bar uses the phrase "administrative hearing"
twice, and it's referring to Black's Law Dictionary. It
defines "administrative hearing" as, essentially, a
hearing conducted by an administrative agency.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When you say "twice," you
mean in the first clause that says "in a criminal,
civil, or administrative hearing"?
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor. And then in
the second clause it proceeds to use the phrase
"congressional, administrative, Government Accounting
Office hearing, audit, investigation, or report."
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there is a redundancy
there if the statute means what you say it does; it says
"administrative hearing" in both the first clause and
the second clause.
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor, there is a
redundancy based upon Petitioner's construction of the
statute. But Congress was not particularly concerned
about redundancy in the False Claims Act. For example,
again it uses the phrase "congressional, administrative,
or GAO."
GAO, of course, is a body that reports to
Congress. Its head is appointed by the President. So
under any definition GAO would either be congressional
or administrative, so there is a redundancy there.
There's also --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I think there would
be a good lawsuit as to whether "congressional report"
includes a GAO report. I think that's a lawsuit. I
don't think it's at all as clear as you suggest.
MR. BROWNING: Well, Justice Scalia, let me
also point out that there is a redundancy in connection
with the use of "audit, report, or investigation."
Essentially, Congress is using the same word to mean
essentially the same thing in that clause as well.
But yes, our reading does result in a
redundancy in the statute. Of course, the government
reads this entire clause as being limited to Federal
proceedings. They would urge a redundancy in the
statute as well. But what's more important is this
Court has consistently said that it will not read the
same phrase as having a different meaning in the same
sentence.
Yes, Congress has created a redundancy, but
that is no more egregious than the fact that it used the
phrase "Government Accounting Office" to refer to what
was clearly the General Accounting Office.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, well, that argument
does not scare the government. I think the government
would like to read "administrative hearing" in the
first -- in the first phrase as being limited to Federal
administrative hearing as well.
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Justice Scalia. That is
their argument today. Of course, just 11 months ago in
United States ex rel. Poteet v. Medtronic, the
government argued in the Sixth Circuit that a qui tam
action should be dismissed based upon a State court
complaint. They convinced the Sixth Circuit to accept
that position and dismissed that complaint on January 14
of this year.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that was on -- on the
basis of the first, the first phrase rather than the
second?
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor, based upon
the first clause of the statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is this particular audit
report we are talking about, this is the audit report
was done by an independent accountant? Is that --
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor. There are
two audit reports -- I'm sorry, there are two reports.
The key one is the report that identifies or asserts
that this work at issue should have been sent out by
bid. That was prepared by an accounting firm for Graham
County, North Carolina, the same auditor that was
engaged by the county to comply with the Single Audit
Act --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that -- is that audit
on file with the Department of Agriculture?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, I would have to
go beyond the record, but yes, we have conducted a --
submitted a Public Information Act request, and
essentially a week after the document was transmitted to
Graham County it was transmitted to the United States
Department of Agriculture.
JUSTICE BREYER: The arguments in this case,
my initial reading of them, are more balanced than any I
can remember, really. For each one, there is a
counterargument and I'm somewhat left up in the air.
So if -- since we have to decide it, it
should -- should I take this into account: That if the
Respondents are right, you are absolutely correct that
there will be a lot of people, perhaps, who get rewards
at the Federal Government's expense who shouldn't have
them. No question. They front-run the government.
They read the report, run in court fast, before it's in
the newspaper.
But if you are right, then they are going to
have to assign people to look at these obscure
administrative reports that didn't even get in the
newspaper. So they want to do that, they don't have
people to do it, and they say these people are
performing a service of sorts by reading them, the
reports, for them and telling them about it. And there
it is, balanced.
But they are the ones who suffer. You see,
they suffer both ways. They suffer if people don't tell
them; they suffer if in fact too many people are getting
unjustified rewards because the money comes from the
Federal Government, the 10 percent, 25 percent. So if
they're the ones who suffer, should I not pay special
attention to their views as to how the balance works
out?
MR. BROWNING: Well, Your Honor, Justice
Breyer, first of all, the government hasn't been
consistent. As we pointed out in United States ex rel.
Poteet, they have taken the exact opposite position with
regard to clause 1 in the first circuit.
But the real issue here and what should
concern the Court is the fact that there will be a
tremendous number of opportunistic qui tam plaintiffs
that arise. If someone can simply go to an ongoing
State or local government investigation, copy it, and
bring it --
JUSTICE BREYER: As you can tell, I have
taken that point in.
MR. BROWNING: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: So my question wasn't that.
My question was, Should I or should I not give them a
little expertise weight on the grounds that they are the
ones who know it best, that they are the victims?
MR. BROWNING: Well, I would suggest that
the weight that should be given is to the partners of
the Federal government, States and local governments
that are in the trenches administering these programs,
that will have tremendous difficulty if there is a rash
of qui tam actions that are brought that disrupt ongoing
Medicaid and other investigations.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How will that happen?
Meaning, how will they know, A, that the investigation
is occurring; and second, what can they do under Federal
or State law to require the disclose of ongoing
investigative materials?
I don't know -- mind you, I haven't studied
them -- but the ones that I am familiar with never
permit the public -- none of the Freedom of Information
Act-type legislation, never permit the disclosure of
ongoing investigative material. So I am a little bit
confused by how that would happen.
MR. BROWNING: Justice Sotomayor, there are
going to be some exceptions to many States' Public
Information Act requests, things such as attorney-client
communications, in some cases criminal investigations.
But for most States there will not be any sort of
prohibition against a plaintiff's attorney filing a
Public Information Act request saying, print out -- give
us a copy of all printouts that show disparities and
irregularities with regard to Medicaid billings.
Moreover, most States are -- by law are
required to receive complaints concerning the State's
Medicaid program. Those are generally processed by the
State's system integrity program. And those reports are
going to be readily available to Public Information Act
requests.
Essentially, what this Court should be
worried about are State employees who know where the
documents can be located. You can simply copy the
document, bring a qui tam action, and produce a windfall
for yourself, potentially disrupting the State
investigation. And if Congress really wanted to do
that, if they wanted to create this rash of ill-advised
qui tam actions, this flood that's about to fall upon
the States, Congress should have written a little bit
more clearly before doing so. It isn't consistent with
the language of the statute or with congressional
intent.
Throughout the legislative history it is
clear that what Congress was intending to do was to have
access to true insiders, the whistleblowers, to obtain
information that would be confidential, that would not
otherwise be available to the Federal Government.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But Congress obviously
wanted more than that, because if Congress's intent was
the one that you are announcing then it should have just
permitted original sources to sue. But that's not the
choice it made. It broadened the scope of qui tam
actions to include more sources or more reward for
individuals who don't have original information.
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor, it -- it
added the original source provision, and it identified
certainly sources of information and said, you cannot
bring an action based upon those specific sources.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I --
MR. BROWNING: Those include --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question:
Is the fact that they've included the news media
consistent with your view?
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That seems to be a much
more open source of information than you're raising.
MR. BROWNING: Exactly. The government
argues that the False Claims Act is exclusively Federal,
the public disclosure bar should therefore be read as
exclusively Federal. But the existence of this category
of news media indicates that Congress did not intend the
public disclosure bar to be exclusively Federal sources.
There -- there -- under the government's
theory that all of this fall -- the entire public
disclosure bar should be read as limited to Federal
sources, the only news media that would be able to -- to
fall within the scope of the public disclosure bar would
be the Voice of America, which is the only Federal news
media currently in existence, to my knowledge.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Stars and Stripes, maybe.
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor. Thank you,
Justice Scalia.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that's not
terribly persuasive. In the statute there are separate
provisions, they talk about disclosures "in criminal,
civil or administrative hearings," "in a congressional
administrative or Government Accounting Office report,
or from the news media." Simply because you want to
limit "administrative" or not limit "administrative"
does not mean that the other side's view requires news
media to be modified by "Federal."
MR. BROWNING: Mr. Chief Justice, two points
I would like to make in response is: First, these
clauses -- and there are three clauses, the first one
beginning with "in" and the third one beginning with
"from" -- they do not serve different purposes. Rather,
they serve to identify the sources that Congress did not
want to give rise to a qui tam action. So this list has
to be read as a whole.
The second point I would like to make is
throughout --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We should stop calling them
clauses. They are really phrases.
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor.
With respect to these three phrases, the --
throughout the legislative history, the year and a half
that the False Claims Act was being debated, there were
only two clauses that began with --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Phrases.
MR. BROWNING: -- the preposition "in" --
phrases.
(Laughter.)
MR. BROWNING: -- that began with the
preposition "in" and then "from" in connection with
"news media." It was only on October 3, 1986, that
the -- when it was -- the provision was finally enacted
by the Senate, that this second "in" was added before
the second clause.
So, Congress undoubtedly did not intend to
make this 11th-hour change and have some substantive
change to the statute. Rather, it should best be read
as a last-minute insert to make the clause, the three
clauses as a whole, read and flow much better than they
did prior to that time.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me just as a
practical matter, suppose -- suppose the county says,
you know, we found out that we were defrauded by this
contractor, and it sues the contractor. But its suit
doesn't cover really all of the damages, only half of
it. Can a qui tam action then be commenced for the
portion that the county isn't seeking? I mean, how does
that work?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, if there has been
a public disclosure --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Which there would be if
there's a complaint filed by the county --
MR. BROWNING: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- against the contractor.
MR. BROWNING: Essentially what the lower
courts have done is they would allowed a qui tam action
to go with regard to a completely different claim. But
if it were simply the fact that the public disclosure
covered a portion of the time period but not all of
it --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Depends on the identity of
the claim?
MR. BROWNING: Yes. Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and suppose in
their race to the courthouse, the qui tam plaintiff
files on Monday and the county files on Tuesday?
MR. BROWNING: Under -- under that scenario,
if the qui tam action is filed before the public
disclosure, then the qui tam action would not be bourne.
-
If there are no further questions, I'd
like --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I, just one -- one
quick question. I -- I -- I just want to be sure I
understood. Do you draw any distinction between the
preposition "in" and the preposition "from"?
MR. BROWNING: No, Your Honor. I think it
is -- as Justice Alito pointed out when he served on the
Third Circuit, that some of these prepositions are very
awkward indeed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Part of the random nature
of the whole provision, right?
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Justice Scalia.
If there are no further questions, I would
like to reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you counsel.
Mr. Hurt.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK T. HURT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. HURT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The decision of the Fourth Circuit is
correct because the text of the False Claims Act compels
the result, and the purpose -- and also the purposes of
the 1986 amendments to the Act. As the Fourth Circuit
noted, Congress grouped the disclosure sources in
paragraph (a) of the public disclosure bar into three
distinct categories. In CATEGORY 2, the term
"administrative" which is at issue here is sandwiched
between the terms "congressional" --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's begin at the
beginning, and that is with the first phrase with the,
what is it, "civil, criminal, administrative hearing."
Do you as the government -- do you agree with the
government that you have to insert "Federal" there, too?
Or does that phrase --
MR. HURT: No.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- include States?
MR. HURT: No, the -- the text of category 2
compels the result here, although we do believe that the
better view of category 1 is that it is also Federal as
well, and the context -- the overall context --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose -- suppose it
isn't? Suppose the general "civil, criminal,
administrative" is read to mean -- include State. Why
shouldn't the second, if it we are picking Latin
phrases, be read in pari materia?
MR. HURT: Because each of those categories
is distinct, not only grammatically, but as far as
function. The first category is clearly adjudicative in
nature. The second is non-adjudicative. And the third
category is -- is news media and stands on its own.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why should we read
the second category back to alter the meaning of the
first, rather than reading the first phrase forward to
alter the meaning of the second? It -- it is absolutely
clear when you read this, "in a criminal, civil, or
administrative hearing"; there is no limitation to
Federal on that. And you acknowledge that the criminal
and civil apply to -- to State civil and criminal
proceedings, right? So when you read that phrase,
"administrative" simply means, obviously means State
administrative.
Now, why shouldn't I read that forward and
say, well, since it means State there, it must mean
State in the next one, in a congressional,
administrative, or GAO report.
MR. HURT: The argument for category 2 is
less compelling, we agree. The argument for category 1
is most compelling because these categories are distinct
and should be looked at as separate units for that
purpose. You have category 2 as non-adjudicative, and
category 1 is adjudicative. And so you have -- you have
distinction there.
If you were looking at the three categories
and, for instance, you don't say category 3 and say
category 3 is nongovernmental, so therefore we should
construe category 2 to include private administrative
reports.
JUSTICE BREYER: The question is, what sense
does that make? I mean -- and I thought you said that
the category 1, which is the criminal proceeding, civil
or administrative proceeding, I thought you said it does
not apply to State proceedings in your view. You said
that was the better view.
MR. HURT: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: What's the state of the law
on that? I thought it was virtually -- what is the
state of the law?
JUSTICE SCALIA: You say that just as to
administrative. Don't you acknowledge that the criminal
and civil apply to State criminal and civil?
MR. HURT: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You want the whole thing to
be just Federal?
MR. HURT: No, we think the better view is
that the whole category is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The whole category?
MR. HURT: -- exclusively Federal.
JUSTICE BREYER: I think you'd have to say
that. But -- but now, what is the state of law on that?
MR. HURT: The -- the court of appeals have
basically gone the other way, but they have looked at it
in a very superficial matter and have not really
directly addressed the issue.
JUSTICE BREYER: What are we supposed to do?
I mean, to me it makes no sense. We are only talking
about things that don't get into the newspapers. So --
and the purpose of the Federal Government's reading of
this would be, look, we don't have people to go send
around to every -- read every State report. We just
don't have that personnel. So we rely on these
whistleblowers and we know some will be unjustified. I
would think the same thing would be absolutely true of
State criminal proceedings that don't get into the
newspaper. There are probably 50 -- several
thousands -- thousands and thousands.
So how to read these differently is a
problem for me. And I think that's on your side of it.
But we are back to Justice Scalia's question, which to
me is the -- is the question here.
MR. HURT: Well, the False Claims Act in
sections, the pertinent sections 3729 and 3730, refers
to the Federal Government many times but never with the
modifier "Federal." They do it through context. And in
fact --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any history, which
I pay attention to -- is there any legislative history
or anything else that you can point to, to me that's
important, showing that that first criminal hearing
means just Federal?
MR. HURT: Yes, the -- the legislative
history shows throughout -- beginning with the House and
Senate bills and going forward that these -- the earlier
version shows these were exclusively Federal.
JUSTICE BREYER: And they meant criminal
hearing. Criminal hearing meant Federal criminal
hearing, not State.
MR. HURT: Exactly, and you have references
--
JUSTICE BREYER: You say "exactly." I was
looking for the backup for that.
MR. HURT: Yes. The legislative history is
clear on that point, and in fact if you look at the
Senate bill that was passed August 11, you have the
final version of paragraph (A), and then you -- which
was enacted in law, and paragraph (B) was somewhat
different, but it had the phrase "government or news
media," "disclosures to government or news media." It's
clearly referencing back to paragraph (A) and
categorizing those sources as either sources of capital
"G" government, the Federal Government, or the news
media.
And the changes -- the subsequent changes to
paragraph (B) give no indication that Congress's
background understanding of that changed. There is no
indication of that. And of course you have the Senate
sponsors of the bill making the same statements that
this was clearly Federal.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why -- what was the
reason for that be, given that there are so many joint
Federal-State grant programs, like the one that's
involved here? Why wouldn't a State report be as much
of a public disclosure as a Federal report? I mean, we
are told that this particular report was filed with the
U.S. Department of Agriculture.
MR. HURT: Because it gives no -- a report
produced by a State or a local government -- and again,
their argument is not just State but every little local
entity producing these reports fall under the
category 2, according to them. Simply the fact that a
local or State official might be producing this report
gives no indication that the Federal Government is
focusing on it or looking at it. And in fact --
JUSTICE ALITO: You think the Federal
Government is focusing on everything that is disclosed
in every civil proceeding that occurs in Federal court?
MR. HURT: No, but Congress was selecting
general categories and as a general category the Federal
proceedings they thought were more likely to put the
government on notice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: News media, they are likely
to be keeping track of all local newspapers as well?
MR. HURT: Well, I think that as a general
category it was reasonable for Congress to assume that
the news media disclosures would be disseminated in
general to the general public and would put pressure on
the government to take action, and the government would
pay attention to that in general.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, they could have
said "national news media." It didn't say "national
news media." It said "news media."
MR. HURT: It said "news media."
JUSTICE SCALIA: It includes a local radio
station, a local community newspaper, right? All of
that is included.
MR. HURT: Congress was drawing the lines --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And yet, State proceedings,
which are excluded, right?
MR. HURT: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even state supreme court
cases and so forth. It seems strange to me.
MR. HURT: Well, under, under -- this Court
recognized in Cook County that the 1986 amendments
abolished the government knowledge rule and allowed the
qui tam relators to bring cases even where the
government, Federal Government, had possession of
information about the fraud.
What we are doing here is not even -- we are
not even sure the government has possession of these
reports. A lot of these reports are just sitting in
file cabinets all around the country in these little
administrative office buildings.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Hurt, let me just give
you what's really troubling me about this case. You
have two citizens of a small town. One of them goes to
the hearing and gets all this information, the other one
doesn't go to the hearing and reads about it in the
newspaper. The latter is a permissible plaintiff, the
former is not; is that correct?
MR. HURT: Correct.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Does that make any sense?
MR. HURT: It does, because Congress drew
it -- picked it as a general category. They were
thinking probably most likely The New York Times or
newspapers that have actual investigative reporting
resources, and that was what they had in mind.
Here you have a whole --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't show that it
makes sense. It just shows that Congress wasn't
thinking clearly. There's as difference between the
two.
MR. HURT: One of the huge problems with
Petitioners' position is it's going to sweep into
category 2 an enormous number of reports and audits that
the Federal Government is likely to never see, never
come across, and you need these concerned citizens to
go -- you want the citizens to go and look at these.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, are you
sure that -- your argument is that this is sandwiched
between two Federal descriptions? Are you sure
"congressional" is limited to Federal Congress? The
first definition in Black's Dictionary is "a formal
meeting of delegates." And I don't know -- maybe I
should -- I don't know if all 50 States refer to their
legislature by some term other than "Congress."
MR. HURT: The Petitioners have not pointed
to an example of a State congress. I think it's
generally conceded that that would be Federal. And
also, when you look at GAO, that's clearly a Federal
entity there as well.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'd like to go back to
Justice Ginsburg's very first question. I want you to
assume that in category 1 it means State or Federal.
Maybe you disagree, maybe you don't. I want you to
assume that. If we assume that, does it make any sense
to confine category 2 to Federal only?
MR. HURT: Yes --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And what's the
practical -- your answer was, well, that's because -- I
want to know the practical rationale for that, the
practical reasons why that should make sense.
MR. HURT: Because reports and audits are
just a totally -- a category that is much -- many
magnitudes greater than the number of criminal, civil,
and administrative hearings. You are going to have
millions of documents all over this country in file
cabinets that are generated by local and State
governments that there is no possibility the vast
majority of those would ever come across the attention
of the Federal Government. And so you want concerned
citizens to be looking through, monitoring their local
governments, digging up these reports and bringing
lawsuits based on those. The Federal Government's
simply not going to do it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which decision of ours do
you think would prompt Congress to go back and do this
right? I mean, do you think that finding the way the
government wants us to find will produce a revision of
this really terrible text so that it makes sense; or do
you think that finding for the other side, giving the
government some incentive to get this fixed, would
likely produce a proper amendment? What do you think?
I think the latter, to tell you the truth.
MR. HURT: Well, unfortunately we have to
deal with the statute as it is. And, you know, the --
our position uses all the clues in the statute to
construe it. The other side construes it in a crude
manner and says, let's treat it like a laundry list,
let's not use any of the grammatical clues in construing
this language, and also let's construe it in a way that
ignores what Congress did in 1986, which was to abolish
the government knowledge part. This is a reimposition
of that bar.
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that the second
phrase said "in a congressional, news media, or GAO
report." Would you read "news media" to be
governmental?
MR. HURT: No, I would not.
JUSTICE ALITO: What's the difference
between that and the way it's phrased now?
MR. HURT: Because it is -- Congress did put
it in a separate category, so --
JUSTICE ALITO: No, no. Right now we have
"in a congressional, administrative, or Government
Accounting Office report." And you say you have to read
"administrative" in light of "congressional" and "GAO."
But what if it said "in a congressional, news media, or
Government Accounting Office report"?
MR. HURT: I think that --
JUSTICE ALITO: Why wouldn't you make the
same argument with relation to "news media"?
MR. HURT: I think the contextual clues
would be less compelling there in that situation, and
you would have --
JUSTICE ALITO: Why is that?
MR. HURT: Because you would have a category
that would have a mixture of exclusively Federal and
nonfederal. Here you have a category that you can't
construe consistently as exclusively Federal, given the
contextual clues in there. So as it is drafted now, if
you look at all the clues you do have distinct
categories that can be construed each on its own merits.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This audit report is
required by Federal law, isn't it?
MR. HURT: Yes, as are many reports,
Medicaid reports by private recipients, today. This
report was only done because the local government was a
recipient of Federal money, no different from any
private recipient, a not-for-profit. So there was no
real distinction there. It was not really a
governmental report, in the truest sense of the word, as
it should be construed or regarded for purposes of the
public disclosure bar.
And that's -- that shows the real -- one of
the real problems of going down to the -- to the local
and State level. You get all of these problems where
the recipient is generating the reports rather than the
-- the administrator versus the recipient. You get all
those problems going down to this level, the local and
State governments, and it shows the real problem with
that.
Again, this is the -- the overall statute is
Federal, it's to recover the Federal Government's money.
The statute has a strict dichotomy between the Federal
Government and everyone else. If the States or local
governments are going to be qui tam relators, they bring
it as a private person. Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Hallward-Driemeier?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER,
ON BEHALF OF UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
As I think the discussion this morning
illustrates, the Federal nature of the second category,
the phrase that is directly at issue in this case, is
self-evident from the text. The terms congressional and
GAO are Federal and under the doctrine or canon of
construction noscitur a sociis --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let me go back to the
other Latin phrase. If you begin at the beginning and
you begin with a phrase that you have no reason to say
is modified by Federal, "civil, criminal or
administrative proceeding," why shouldn't that drive the
statute, what's in the first phrase?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, Your Honor, I
-- I want to start by making clear that we disagree that
that's a better interpretation of the first clause, but
I will take it as the premise.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, it's a lot hard to
say you have to put a caret mark and say -- vidi --
means Federal civil, criminal and administrative
hearings.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: It -- it may indeed
be harder to do that. We think that it is warranted in
light of the policy that motivated Congress and in light
of other references to Federal administrative, civil and
criminal hearings in the statute. But even if those
reasons which we think justify limiting the first
category to Federal proceedings -- the Court were to
disagree with that, that would not justify disregarding
the clear indications of the Federal limitations on the
second clause. And there is no policy --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well -- I didn't
mean to interrupt. Clear limitations, you really have
only one, right? I mean you have no argument construing
administrative in a Federal way other than it is
sandwiched between two other Federal --
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, Your Honor, I
think that -- that again, as Justice Alito's question at
the very beginning of the argument illustrated, the
literal language of the word administrative would
encompass hearings conducted by private hospitals or
universities as well. Now Petitioner es hewed that
interpretation --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we would just
-- we would just take the sections from your brief today
and say well no, you have got to read it in the context
in which it appears and this is all Federal, which means
it's all governmental.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That's -- that's
right, Your Honor, and governmental in a particular
nature, of a particular nature, the Federal Government.
As is the Court's decision in Cook County made clear,
municipal governmental entities are with respect to the
False Claims Act the same as private corporations. The
-- the Court recognized that municipalities are the
recipients of many Federal dollars. In that case the
local governmental entity whose conduct is at issue was
a county hospital. And -- and county hospitals receive
funds under the same programs that private hospitals --
JUSTICE BREYER: I just want to get your
expertise on this, because you have probably read the
legislative history of the 1986 amendment. All right,
am I right in thinking this? If I go back and read
it -- which I will -- I will discover, not once in this
entire 1986 history anywhere, House, Senate or
conference, does the word State appear in any relevant
context?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: No.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not right. Okay. So
when it appears --
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, I guess it
depends on what you mean by the relevant context.
JUSTICE BREYER: What I'm -- the relevant
context has to do in my mind at the moment primarily in
respect to the first clause, "criminal, civil, or
administrative proceeding." Is there any indication
that those were meant to apply -- any indication that
those were meant to apply to State as opposed to
uniquely Federal, criminal, civil, or administrative
proceedings?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: No, Your Honor, it
is -- it is clear from the legislative --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah. Clear from the
record -- clear that --
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: That it was Federal
proceedings that Congress had in mind. And -- and if
you would take --
JUSTICE BREYER: And the word hearing --
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: If you would look
on page 19 of the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Could you be more specific
when you say that Congress had in mind? Just so I know
what you are talking about?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: I'm sorry, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The committee that reported
the bill.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: I'm -- that's
right. That's right, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: In both houses or just one
house?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, we have the
-- the committee report and the bill that was recorded
by the House which states specifically at that point,
the public disclosure bar referenced information which
the Government, capital G, disclosed the basis of
allegations in a prior administrative civil proceeding.
That was the House.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The House.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well -- well, North
Carolina has got a government, too.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Excuse me?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: North Carolina has a
government, too.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, as we note,
Your Honor, the statute uses the term "Government" with
a capital G throughout to refer to the Federal
Government.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Same rule for
Congress?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Excuse me?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Same rule for
congressional?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, congressional
-- the -- the term congressional is frequently used
without a capital, but State legislatures are not
referred to as congresses. And that is one of the
anomalies that petitioners simply cannot explain: why
Congress would have thought that an administrative
report issued by a local school board should give rise
to the bar, but a report or a hearing conducted by a
State legislature would not.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was an explanation
for it in the opposing brief, that Congress in -- what
was it -- 1986 didn't think that the legislature was
generating reports, audits, as distinguished from
administrative agencies.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well -- well, Your
Honor, it is of course a -- a truism, that -- that
programs are administered by the executive branch more
than the legislative branch, but that is no reason to
think that Congress would have meant to exclude, if
those State legislatures did conduct a hearing with
respect to fraud by the State, exclude that as a public
disclosure. The reason that Congress didn't include
State legislative reports is because it didn't include
State reports at all. It was --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well that -- that doesn't
follow like the night the day. It could be, as it was
explained, they didn't include State legislatures
because they didn't think they would be generating
relevant material.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, Your Honor, I
-- I think that it is more likely as -- as the
development and progress of the clause reflects, that
Congress was focused on what does the government know
and what does the disclosure show about the whether the
government is already or is likely to focus on the
fraud.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is the Justice Department
seeking to get this -- this piece of -- of statutory
text clarified? I mean, you do have some operation over
there that proposes to Congress amendments of those
provisions that are not working out well. Is there --
is there any effort to get this clarified?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: There -- I -- there
are currently under consideration bills or, and as I
understand it, they are not, there are other bills that
are in contemplation that would revise the language of
the statute, but -- but would not necessarily focus on
this. There are a number of other issues connected --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Could it make it worse?
(Laughter.)
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: I -- I don't know.
But of course --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think the question was
has the Department of Justice, recognizing that there's
a circuit split this very question recommended that
Congress amend the statute in this particular --
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: I -- I don't
believe that as of yet the department has taken a
specific position on -- on the legislation that is
contemplated in this particular ambiguity.
JUSTICE BREYER: There is one ambiguity
whether this clause, the first -- what we call first and
second refers to State as well as Federal. If the
debate took place in a context where everyone's just
thinking of Federal, it's not surprising they didn't put
in the word Federal. They don't think of everything.
All right. Now, that's my question.
You started with the House. The House to me
does think just of Federal. The Senate's ambiguous on
that point --
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: The Senate --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and the conference is
yet more ambiguous on that point. So is there
anything -- when I look at the conference and the Senate
versions, I'm going to say, gee, they did -- sorry, they
did actually think of Federal and State, too, and it's
sort of mixed up? Or am I going to see that that
context there is Federal?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: The context is --
is Federal. References to States in connection with the
act that Congress has thought about it are treating
States like other private qui tam relators.
They Petitioner referred to the Dean case,
and, in fact, that was something that the -- the
legislative history refers to, but what was offensive
about the decision in the Dean case was that Wisconsin
had been the original source of the information, but had
been barred because it had provided that information to
the government.
And, under the government knowledge bar,
they had been precluded, so -- so Wisconsin would have
been taken care of under the original source provision,
but it doesn't reflect a view that States have a
particular distinctive role.
In fact, as this Court's decision in Cook
County reflects, municipalities are treated just like
any private corporation for purposes of the act. They
can be defendants, they could be plaintiffs, qui tam
relators, but there is no reason to construe the statute
in a way that would allow a local government,
technically, to shield itself from qui tam suits by
disclosing the facts that would be the underlying
information support of the fraud claim in, perhaps, a
report that was intended to -- to whitewash the
situation --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you think that the --
when a -- when State employees want to immunize
themselves from fraud, they are going to say, okay, we
will disclose it where anybody --a prosecutor could pick
it up, but we will take care of the qui tam obligation.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, Your Honor, I
think it's important to note that, in order to be a
public disclosure -- the second category at the very
least -- all that needs to have happened is that
information be disclosed to -- to one additional person.
That -- and that makes a lot of sense when
we are talking about disclosures of the government --
Federal government's own reports because, if the Federal
government is already investigating and pursuing the
fraud, one other person that finds out about it and then
files a qui tam action on the basis of the government's
own effort is precisely the situation that Congress
sought to preclude.
But it doesn't make any senses when we are
talking about a disclosure to an individual by a State
or local --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there's lots of
disclosures -- there's lots of disclosures in Federal
reports that the government isn't pursuing.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, we think that
the -- the disclosures -- the allegations in the types
of reports, audits, investigations, that are referenced
in the clause are the type that would evidence that the
government is pursuing them.
And -- but where a State -- perhaps a local
school board discloses facts that might give rise to an
allegation of fraud in a hearing where there was only
one or two members of the public in attendance, there is
no reason to think that that information is going to be
brought to the Federal government's attention.
The purpose of the bar is to balance --
Congress was seeking to balance two rules. One is to
encourage qui tam relators to bring information and
bring suit where the information was unlikely to be
something that the government -- Federal government was
focusing on.
Where the Federal government was able to
protect itself and bring this suit on its own, then
there's no reason for the Federal government to have to
share its recovery.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But why can't it -- why
can't it protect itself if these reports are in its
possession? How are they any more in the -- or less in
the government's possession than articles in the news
media, than State, criminal, civil, and administrative
hearings?
You, yourself, make it very clear that the
government -- it isn't keeping track of all of those
other sources.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Well, Your Honor,
Petitioners' reference to this audit being in the
possession of the government -- it's happenstance that
this particular report, the Crisp & Hughes report, was
sent to the Federal government official.
But the vast majority of State and local
governmental investigations, audits, and reports, are
not going to be given to the Federal government, and
even though they are -- they cite the Single Audit Act,
which is only a very narrow subset of audits that States
or local governments perform -- do not actually disclose
the allegations of the fraud.
In order to get to the actual information of
the fraud, the -- first of all, it would have to be
brought to the attention of the relevant Federal agency.
Usually, the cognizant agency is the one that has the
most money at stake, but the fraud may have to do with a
different Federal program, so it has to be brought to
the attention of the program whose interests are
actually at stake.
They have to go beyond the report that is --
that is publicly available in the clearinghouse website,
which tells you virtually nothing, to an underlying
report which is itself, generally, fairly vague, and all
Petitioners say is that the working papers of the
auditor are available to the government, not even in the
government's possession, they are available to the
government if it requests it.
The government has to drill down many levels
before it necessarily is going to know about that fraud.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't that argument
suggesting that the court didn't even need to reach this
issue, even assuming that the State administrative
reports are included in the bar?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: No -- no, Your
Honor, I don't think so.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, aren't you arguing
that what was in this audit report wasn't sufficient to
show the fraud? That's not your argument?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: No -- again, this
report here did have information that was indicative of
fraud, and this report --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In which way?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: Excuse me?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which way? All it said
was that this person wasn't chosen by bidding. But
aren't there situations in which non-bids are permitted?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: There -- there were
multiple allegations. One of the allegations underlying
the relator's claim is that the government -- the county
certified that certain procedures were followed that
would have included a requirement that it be bid out,
and that it was not.
Another was that certain work was paid for
or billed for, but wasn't performed or was not performed
well, so there were -- there were different allegations,
and where that would be disclosed to a single person,
that would constitute a public disclosure, at least with
respect to Federal --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, the Attorney
General can always bring suit, right? I mean, all we
are arguing about is whether this information that is in
the in the State and local thing could be the basis of a
qui tam suit.
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: But only if we --
JUSTICE SCALIA: If the government finds out
about it, the Attorney General could always bring suit,
right?
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER: And what is at
issue here is whether the Federal government is ever
going to learn of the fraud.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Browning, you have six minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. BROWNING: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Justice Breyer, if I could first turn to
your comments or your questions about legislative
history; here, I think the legislative history tells us
very little because of the many changes in the Senate
version and the House version, and unfortunately, there
was not a conference committee report, so we won't know
the nature of the compromise.
At most, the legislative history helps us to
show what Congress was generally concerned about, and
throughout the original committee, the Senate and House
report, there is a concern about qui tam actions based
upon public information.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, I agree with you about
that. I think it's the silence, though, that might cut
against you.
MR. BROWNING: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: And the reason that it's --
it's basically silence -- the reason I am thinking that
cuts against you is because of this sorting of the
context where they are focusing on Federal.
And, if everybody is working in that
context, then nothing said about State means they are
just assuming it's all applying to Federal.
Now, what I'm looking for, you might be able
to put your finger on, is something that shows that my
last statement is not right.
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Justice Breyer, that the
government assumes and repeats throughout its brief that
the False Claims Act is exclusively Federal in nature;
therefore, you read all of its terms as essentially
being -- being Federal.
That, of course, does not answer what
Congress intended with the public disclosure bar --
JUSTICE SCALIA: When we say everybody's
working in a certain context, how -- how many people is
everybody? What percentage of the House and of the
Senate were involved in these committees that were
drafting these bills and that issued the committee
report?
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Justice Scalia, your
point is well-taken, that this would only be --
JUSTICE BREYER: I think in the -- it was --
it probably came out in governmental affairs in the
Senate, which I think had 17 members at the time.
MR. BROWNING: Yes.
Continuing with your -- your question, if I
could, Justice Breyer, that there is nothing to indicate
that the public disclosure bar should be exclusively
Federal.
It, of course, includes news media, which is
not Federal. It also includes criminal, civil, or
administrative hearings. But moreover, there are many
aspects of the False Claims Act that are not exclusively
Federal in nature.
The very change that we are talking about --
the -- the change to the public disclosure bar was a
result of a push by the National Association of Attorney
Generals to actually change the public disclosure bar to
make sure that States could bring qui tam actions.
That is why the public disclosure bar
includes an original source provision.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To -- to follow up,
I think it was a question that Justice Breyer asked
earlier. Do you have any tie-breaker on your side?
I mean, if we do decide the arguments are
pretty much in equipoise, the suggestion was that the
Federal government is both the beneficiary and the loser
in the qui tam actions, from the sense they lose a
percentage of recovery, and so we ought to let them
strike the balance.
What argument do you have on your side?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, again, that our
concern from the perspective of the States -- and it's a
concern shared by local governments -- is the reading
that Respondents advocate will produce a flood of qui
tam --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's the same --
that's one of the arguments that, I think, is balanced
on the other side. For example, is -- do -- have we
ever said -- and this is an unusual statute, of course,
with a private Attorney General and all that.
Have we -- does -- is there any authority
for the idea that we should read it restrictively
because of that?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, it does give rise
to a -- a false claim will, of course, give rise to
criminal liability. Moreover, it is a case dealing
with --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Have we ever -- have
we ever said that that's a basis for reading the act
restrictively?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, there is some
older authority to that affect. The specific case -- I
apologize. The name escapes me.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But what your claim is --
is that the government -- the Federal government is not
the only person harmed?
MR. BROWNING: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And, therefore -- you know,
we should listen to them, so long as they don't -- they
want to come out this way, you are saying the State and
local governments --
MR. BROWNING: Absolutely, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- are significantly
harmed.
MR. BROWNING: We are -- we are partners --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which the Federal
government doesn't care about, right?
MR. BROWNING: The Federal government has, I
think, taken a very short-sighted view because these
sort of qui tam actions will be very disruptive to what
the Federal government's partners are actually doing in
the trenches in administering these programs.
Moreover, the Federal False Claims Act -- it
is clear that it is not exclusively Federal. When it
was amended in 1986, Congress changed Section 3732(b),
which allowed pendent State claims to be brought, so a
State, if there is a Federal false claims action, could
intervene to protect the State's portions of the -- the
monies that are at issue.
Moreover, in Section 3733(l)(7)(A), the
civil investigative demand provisions, Congress
expressly viewed the word "administrative" to include,
not only Federal administrative proceedings, but State
administrative proceedings as well.
JUSTICE BREYER: So your point here is -- I
will put it in cash terms, is the Federal government,
who will pay a lot of qui tam lawyers some percent to go
and look through all these State criminal hearings and
State reports and all these things that didn't get into
the newspaper and to bring cases, so it may be cheaper
to pay them then it would be to hire staff to do that.
Now, your point is that they get a little
over-enthusiastic sometimes, and they can bring actions
that maybe not be so well-justified, and the -- the
Federal government is going to have to hire people to
sort those out anyway, and so would the States in that
kind of mess.
Is that your point?
MR. BROWNING: Yes. They will be very
enthusiastic if they can simply take a State report
showing Medicaid fraud and bring a qui tam action. That
will be very disruptive to states and to local
governments.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
19:25 Alito 9:1,5,16 appointed 10:23 47:24
55:23 adjectives 9:18 Alito's 37:4 48:10 49:10 47:5,8
26:1 23:12 24:10 allegations 2:2,10 3:3,8 authority 53:6
administered 39:23 45:20 5:12 8:17 53:17
3:13 7:20 9:2,8 ambiguity 42:24 52:20 awkward 21:22
11:21,22 9:23 10:1,3,4,7 ambiguous 43:8 13:10 52:14 55:22
18:20 10:10,14,20,25 43:12 53:2
12:2 amend 42:20 article 6:18 B
25:3 18:22,22 22:16 amendment asked 52:12 back 23:16 26:7
13:1,6 23:24,25 24:4 amendments asserts 12:21 32:14 35:24
18:1 24:15,20 25:3 6:12 22:12 assign 13:23 38:4
22:10,12 29:25 32:3 29:16 42:4 Assistant 1:22 background
37:20 33:17,19 36:3 America 18:11 Association 52:6 27:18
44:11 36:11,16 37:1 amicus 1:24 2:8 assume 28:22 backup 27:4
51:3 52:2 37:6 38:17,20 35:14 31:16,18,18 balance 14:11
54:13 39:23 40:20 analyzing 4:6 assumes 51:2 46:5,6 52:19
6:8,14 48:6 52:1 17:8 50:22 14:4 53:2
8:7 9:9 54:22,23,24 anomalies 40:19 attendance 46:2 bar 3:13 5:18
16:17 administrator answer 31:22 attention 14:11 6:1,3,6 7:9
19:6 35:1 51:6 26:15 29:1 10:1 18:2,5,8
21:10 advocate 52:24 anybody 44:23 32:7 46:4 18:10 22:14
28:25 affairs 51:17 anyway 55:11 47:13,17 33:6 34:21
54:17 affect 53:17 apologize 53:18 attorney 16:4 39:21 40:22
agencies 41:3 appeals 25:14 49:8,15 52:6 44:4 46:5 48:7
6:5 15:11 47:13,14 APPEARAN... attorney-client 52:9
17:11 ago 12:4 1:17 16:1 barred 5:20
52:8,17 agree 22:21 24:6 appears 37:13 audit 10:11 11:8 44:2
55:8 50:12 38:11 12:16,17,20,25 based 4:11 5:20
12:7,14 27:3 38:1,10 California 4:5 cheaper 55:5 41:21 43:1
32:11 38:14,24 39:4 call 43:1 Chief 3:3,10 45:22
42:25 43:11 calling 19:10 18:16,25 22:3 clauses 19:2,2
51:1,16,21 capital 27:13 35:11,16 36:23 clear 8:10 11:5
45:10 brief 37:11 care 44:6,24 40:10,13 49:20 27:6 36:6,21
53:14 40:25 51:2 54:7 49:24 52:11 36:24 37:18
22:19 29:18 35:9 40:2,4 chosen 48:19 clearinghouse
35:25 46:7,8,12 49:9 case 3:4,12 7:1,3 CHRISTOPH... 47:20
49:15 52:8 7:15 13:10 1:18 2:3,11 3:8 clearly 8:22 9:11
2:4,6,8,12 bringing 32:10 37:22 43:22,25 circuit 12:6,8 23:12 27:12,21
22:6 35:14 broadened 53:11,17 55:21 14:17 21:21 30:18 31:12
17:10 55:22 22:9,12 42:19 clerk's 7:24
42:22 brought 3:20 29:14,18 55:5 circulation 6:19 33:25 34:8,9
46:4 47:13,16 categories 22:15 citizens 30:3,24 come 7:18 30:24
25:8 2:3,11 3:7,8,10 categorizing 7:12,20 10:7 commenced
4:17 5:5,16 27:13 18:19 22:20 20:13
8:20 9:5,25 22:15 23:1,3 24:19 25:4,4 committee
15:1,6,24 25:9,10 28:8 46:19 51:25 51:11
51:12 20:20,22 21:5 34:4,6 35:19 53:10,19 compelling 24:6
50:15 51:1,14 49:2 51:9 19:15 22:10 23:2
53:9,16,22 17:15 51:3 52:2 12:9 20:19
15:2 C 2:1 3:1 27:18 54:15 11:13 12:15 compromise
25:12 cabinets 29:24 changes 27:16 14:17 20:1,5 5:25 6:6 50:6
26:14,23 32:5 27:16 50:3 36:7,22 38:16 computerized
24:3 31:4 33:8 20:11,11,21 7:22 20:23 defines 10:3
50:10 40:16 37:18 44:9 cover 20:12 definitions 9:10
Congress's 6:9 cooperative covered 21:1 defrauded 20:10
32:8 connected 42:12 copied 4:10 8:6 created 11:19 demand 54:21
connection 4:4 copy 3:17 14:22 criminal 3:17 department
1:4 3:5 corporations 23:21,22 24:19 depends 21:3
37:7 consideration correct 13:16 26:23,24,24 deposition 7:11
42:8 22:10 30:7,8 32:2 36:2,11 7:12,14
50:5 consistently 49:20 55:20 53:11 55:3 31:3
34:7 13:13 crude 32:25 development
8:3,10 3:21 10:17 12:24,25 13:8 42:8 9:13 10:2 31:5
9:7 35:23 20:9,14,19 cut 5:23 50:13 difference 30:18
11:9 construe 24:15 21:8 29:16 cuts 50:18 33:12
16:19,22 32:25 33:3 37:18,24,24 different 11:17
18:4 34:7 44:13 44:10 48:23 D 19:4 20:24
20:2 construed 34:10 course 4:23 6:15 D 3:1 27:10 34:16
28:15,22 34:20 8:8 10:22 damages 20:12 47:16 49:4
30:10,17 construes 32:25 11:12 12:4 databases 4:6 differently 26:5
construing 33:2 27:19 41:5 day 4:8 41:15 difficulty 15:10
33:4,14 36:25 42:16 49:8 deal 32:23 digging 32:10
39:2,8 contemplated 51:6,24 53:4 dealing 53:11 directly 6:13
42:24 53:10 Dean 6:11 43:22 25:17 35:20
contemplation court 1:1,15 43:25 disagree 31:17
43:20 42:10 3:11,16 6:23 debate 43:3 36:6,20
46:6 context 23:4,4 7:6,7,14 9:14 debated 19:15 disclose 15:16
51:7 26:12 37:12 11:16 12:7 decide 13:14 44:23 47:9
38:8,13,15 13:20 14:19 52:14 disclosed 28:13
50:19,21 51:9 25:14 28:14 decision 4:9,22 49:5
9:19 33:25 34:8 36:19 37:21 32:13 37:18 disclosing 44:16
Continuing 48:5 43:25 44:9 disclosure 3:13
16:24 51:20 courthouse 21:7 defendants 5:18 7:8,9 10:1
22:17 contractor courts 7:16,21 44:12 15:21 18:2,5,8
20:17,25 DOUGLAS ET 1:5 20:25 26:13 52:16 53:20
22:13,14 1:22 2:7 35:13 everybody 27:6 28:8,11 54:6,8,11,13
34:21 drafted 34:8 50:20 51:10 43:23 44:9 54:14,17,23
41:11,23 drafting 51:12 everybody's facts 44:16 55:1,10
49:6 draw 21:17 51:8 45:25 Federal-State
52:5,7 drawing 29:9 everyone's 43:3 fairly 47:22 27:24
drew 30:10 evidence 45:22 fall 9:12 16:21 fighting 4:1
27:11 drive 36:3 6:10 8:9 12:5 false 3:14 8:22 file 13:3 29:24
45:6,17 D.C 1:11,24 14:15 10:19 18:1 32:4
exact 14:16 19:15 22:10 filed 6:23 7:1,3
6:4 exceptions fast 13:20 final 27:8
egregious 11:20 exclude 41:8,10 7:5,7 11:13 finding 32:15,18
27:13 exclusively 18:1 14:9 15:8,15 finger 50:24
employees 16:15 26:22 34:5,7 18:11,24 22:22 first 3:4 7:8 10:6
24:7 enacted 19:24 54:14 25:11,21 26:11 12:12,12,15
27:9 Excuse 40:3,12 26:12,18,22,24 14:14,17 19:1
24:11 encourage 46:7 executive 41:6 28:10,12,14,16 23:12,17,17
engaged 12:25 existed 5:18 29:19 30:23 26:17 31:5,15
55:15 existing 6:3 32:11 34:5,7 47:12 49:25
18:7 38:6 expense 13:18 35:6,7,19,22 fixed 32:19
13:7 16:17 es 37:8 explanation 40:8 43:2,4,5,8 42:11
16:16 ESQ 1:18,20,22 expressly 4:22 45:7,7,17 46:4 focusing 28:11
2:3,5,7,11 54:22 46:9,11,13 28:13 46:10
54:11 10:3 11:9,10 F 49:7,18 50:19 follow 41:15
26:21 getting 14:7 22:21,22 26:11 guilty 4:14 hewed 37:8
12:16 13:2 28:25,25 29:17 half 19:14 20:12 17:1 19:14
7:2 29:20 35:24 36:9 32:19 33:5,17 35:13,16 36:5 43:24 50:2,2,7
44:17 40:24 41:14 33:21 34:15 36:13 37:3,15 hold 3:16
45:9 42:17 44:20 35:8 37:17 38:9,12,22 Honor 4:17 5:16
47:10,12 45:16 39:22 40:2,5,7 39:1,5,10,14 7:13 8:2,15,20
48:3,12 Ginsburg's 40:9 41:22,24 39:18 40:3,6 9:25 10:8,16
49:19 31:15 44:3,4,14 45:6 40:12,15 41:4 12:14,19 13:4
give 15:3 16:5 45:8,18,23 41:19 42:7,15 14:13 17:13,22
45:25 53:9,10 47:24 48:1,2 46:24 48:8,13 36:5 37:3,16
go 8:18 13:5 9:22,24 33:10 happenstance hospital 37:24
20:24 34:19 37:14,16 47:1 hospitals 9:15
27:14 32:14 35:24 governments harmed 53:21 house 26:20
40:8 38:4 47:19 3:22 4:19 15:8 54:4 38:6 39:17,20
55:2 32:6,10 35:3,9 head 10:23 39:24,25 43:7
11:4 going 13:22 54:1 55:18 hearing 4:16 51:10
31:12 15:25 16:12 government's 7:11,12,20,21 houses 39:16
35:22 26:21 30:21 13:18 18:6 7:23 8:1,3,12 huge 30:20
23:6 43:16 44:22 46:4,18 47:25 10:14 11:25 22:4,5,7,24
46:3 47:6 48:3 54:11 12:2 22:20 23:1,10 24:5
29:1 49:19 55:10 Graham 1:3 3:4 23:20 26:17,24 24:23 25:5,8
49:9,15 good 11:3 12:23 13:8 26:24,25 30:4 25:11,14 26:9
government grammatical 30:5 39:4 26:19 27:1,5
31:11 5:7,22 6:1,17 grammatically 46:1 29:5,9,12,15
50:8 6:20 9:3,9,19 23:11 hearings 18:19 30:1,8,10,20
33:11,14 36:21 15:17,22 30:13 25:2,6,10,12 53:23
34:4 indicative 48:14 54:21 25:18 26:7,14 knowledge 6:1
indictment 3:18 investigatory 26:23 27:3,22 18:12 29:17
4:9 28:12,19 29:2 33:5 44:4
information in-person 8:4,4 32:13 33:7,12 16:24 33:3
15:20 16:1,5 issue 3:12 12:22 35:24 36:9,23 Latin 23:8 35:25
44:21 50:11 issues 42:12 42:13,17,18,25 34:12
9:21 J 45:16 46:15 lawsuits 32:11
insert 20:5 joint 27:23 49:8,14,20,24 learn 49:19
45:1 insiders 17:3 3:8 49:22 51:1,8,14,16 legislation 15:21
22:25 intend 18:4 20:2 7:3,5,15 54:2,3,6,25 19:14 26:15,19
24:15 intended 8:24 jurisdiction 55:20 27:5 38:3,23
44:18 51:7 6:25 justify 36:18,20 41:7,12 43:24
intending 17:2 Justice 1:23 3:3 50:1,2,7
48:7,25 17:7 5:11 6:2 7:10 KAREN 1:9 40:23 41:1
6:15,17 interpretation 8:14,17 9:1,5 46:22 40:17 41:9,16
29:6 36:7 37:9 9:16 10:5,12 KENNEDY let's 22:18 33:1
52:10 interrupt 36:24 11:2,6,23 12:3 20:8,18,21 33:2,3
investigating 13:10 14:13,24 31:21 levels 48:2
investigation 17:6,17,19,23 kind 55:12 53:11
14:22 15:14 19:10,17 20:8 15:14,18 16:15 light 33:19
28:10 15:12 16:2 21:25 22:3,7 32:23 39:8 18:22,22
45:21 47:5 22:18,25 23:5 41:22 42:15 limitation 23:20
magnitudes Medtronic 12:5 42:11 48:3 13:23
11:13 majority 32:7 members 5:25 needs 9:14 45:3 obviously 8:12
18:8 31:4 47:4 46:2 51:18 never 7:4 15:19 17:6 23:24
Marcus 8:9 mind 15:18 news 6:18 17:20 offensive 43:24
28:6 materials 15:17 modified 18:24 33:9,20,24 47:3
50:3 matter 1:14 20:9 36:2 46:18 51:24 okay 38:10
25:16 55:23 modifier 26:12 newspaper 44:22
14:22
18:23 Monday 1:12 29:7 30:6 55:5 once 38:5
28:5,6,9 20:14 23:7 21:8 newspapers ones 14:5,10
29:6,7 24:2,18 25:19 money 14:8 25:20 28:20 15:5,19
34:15
29:2 34:16 35:6 30:13 ongoing 14:21
35:2,8 32:15 36:24,25 47:15 night 41:15 15:11,16,22
40:21 38:13 42:3 monies 54:19 nonfederal 34:6 open 17:24
45:15,24 49:9 52:14 monitoring 32:9 nongovernme... operation 42:3
49:11 meaning 11:17 months 12:4 24:14 opportunistic
54:1 15:14 23:16,18 morning 3:4 non-adjudicat... 3:19 14:20
means 8:18 35:18 23:13 24:9 opposed 38:19
30:25 37:13 50:21 multiple 48:22 noscitur 35:23 8:4 22:5 35:13
34:9 meant 8:3,12,14 municipal 37:19 note 40:6 45:1 order 4:7 45:1
43:13 26:23,24 38:18 municipalities noted 22:13 47:11
38:19 41:8 37:21 44:10 notice 6:20 original 5:3,3,10
17:20 18:4,9 N not-for-profit 44:1,6 50:9
28:11 19:23 23:14 name 53:18 November 1:12 ought 52:18
50:23 27:11,11,15 narrow 47:8 number 7:1 overall 23:4
45:5 55:2 51:24 nature 21:23
55:16 51:3 52:3 obligation 44:24 page 2:2 39:6
27:8,9 petitioners 1:6 possession 29:19 proceed 3:18 5:7,17 6:14 7:8
1:19 2:4,12 3:9 29:22 46:17,18 proceeding 9:12 7:9 9:25 13:6
47:23 49:23 Poteet 12:5 39:23 18:10 20:17,25
28:2 10:17 potentially 7:22 11:14 28:1,24 34:21
42:20 phrase 7:19 8:25 16:18 23:23 24:21 39:21 41:10
44:8 9:6,18 10:1,9 practical 20:9 26:2 28:17 45:2 46:2 49:6
10:20 11:17,21 31:22,23,24 29:10 36:19 50:11 51:7,22
22:23 23:17,23 preclude 45:12 54:23,24 publication 6:19
36:4 prepared 12:23 processed 16:10 24:9 25:21
55:2,6 19:13,17,19 21:18 produced 28:5 22:11 34:20
picked 30:11 prepositions program 16:10 45:18,23
51:9 picking 23:8 21:21 16:11 47:16,17 push 52:6
piece 42:2 President 10:23 programs 3:25 put 6:20 28:17
plaintiff 4:10 presumably 37:25 41:6 36:10 43:4
52:18 30:6 pretty 52:15 progress 41:21
plaintiff's 16:4 print 16:5 3:19 7:6 13:19 15:2
43:9,12 51:15 37:7,20,25 44:23 52:12
48:19 pointed 14:15 53:5 54:18 22:1 50:1
53:21 21:20 31:9 probably 26:3 provided 44:2 qui 3:18,19 4:10
portion 20:14 problem 8:16,21 21:24 44:6 6:14 8:6 12:6
portions 54:18 problems 30:20 provisions 4:24 16:17,21 17:10
reason 27:23 reflect 44:7 4:22 5:15 6:18 rewards 13:17
35:9 36:1 41:7,11 reflects 41:21 9:24 10:22 14:8
44:12,15 44:13 46:3,13 44:10 12:20,20 13:24 right 13:16,22
45:10 50:16,17 regard 6:22 14:3 16:11 21:24 23:23
49:12 reasonable 14:17 16:7 24:16 28:7 29:7,11 32:15
52:8,17 28:22 20:24 29:23,23 30:22 33:16 36:25
54:10 reasons 31:24 regarded 34:20 31:25 32:10 37:16 38:3,4
36:18 reimposition 34:13,14,25 38:10 39:15,15
49:22 rel 1:8 3:6 5:1 45:7,18,21 50:25 54:7
13:20 record 13:5 rely 25:24 reserve 22:2 rules 46:6
19:7 38:25 remain 6:3 resources 4:25 run 13:20
23:7,9 recorded 39:19 remainder 22:2 30:14
recover 35:6 remember respect 4:2,21 S
25:23 recovery 46:14 13:12 6:5,10 8:22 S 2:1 3:1
33:9,18 52:18 render 4:15 19:13 37:19 sandwiched
38:2,4 redundancy repeats 51:2 38:16 41:10 22:16 31:2
53:7 10:12,17,19,25 report 3:17 4:11 49:7 37:2
refer 11:21 31:7 9:20 10:11 1:21,25 2:6,9 53:25
14:2 reference 46:25 12:17,21 13:20 Respondents 20:9 33:1
25:21 referenced 18:20 24:4 13:16 52:24 Scalia 4:13 7:10
53:14 39:21 45:21 25:23 27:25 response 19:1 7:17,19,25
35:3 43:19 34:15,19 39:19 result 4:12,18 18:13,15 19:10
27:12 47:2,2,19,22 8:5,11 11:11 23:15 25:2,6
16:19 43:22 50:5,10 51:13 52:6 29:2,6,10,13
20:12 referring 7:13 55:15 reviewed 7:5 30:16 32:13
30:2 10:2 reported 39:12 revise 42:10 39:7,12,16,25
34:18 refers 26:10 reporting 30:13 revision 32:16 42:1,13 49:8
43:2,24 reports 3:14 reward 17:11 49:14 51:8,14
54:2 settles 7:4,16 54:10 55:11 35:3 38:7,19 55:21,23
show 16:6 30:16 48:16,18 49:11 50:21 sued 5:8
50:8 source 5:3,4,10 54:23 55:3,4 suffer 14:5,6,6,7
15:15 55:16 44:1,6 52:10 statement 50:25 sufficient 48:11
20:1 shows 26:20,22 sources 3:15 statements suggest 11:5
34:22 6:13,16 17:9 27:20 15:6
35:19 35:3 50:24 17:11,15,16 states 1:1,8,15 suggesting 48:5
43:2 shrink 5:15 18:5,9 19:5 1:24 2:8 3:5,22 suggestion
side 26:6 32:18 22:13 27:13,13 3:25 4:3,21,23 52:15
37:11 side's 18:23 special 14:10 14:15 15:8,25 49:15
54:3 17:16 39:7 22:25 31:7 summary 6:25
46:6 simply 3:17 4:10 specifically 43:19,21 44:7 superficial
18:21 20:25 split 42:19 State's 16:9,11 supporting 1:25
27:7,19 32:12 40:19 staff 55:6 station 29:7 suppose 20:9,9
43:10,13 55:15 stake 47:15,18 statute 3:20,21 21:6 23:5,5,6
51:11 single 12:25 stands 5:10 10:13,18 11:12 33:7
47:7 49:5 23:14 11:15 12:15 supposed 25:18
30:9,17 situations 48:20 state 3:14,17,17 40:7 42:11,20 21:16 29:22
32:17 six 49:21 3:24,25 4:14 44:13 53:4 31:2,3 52:8
45:5 Sixth 12:6,8 4:19,22 5:6,14 statutory 42:2 surprising 43:4
small 30:3 9:11,12 12:7 Stevens 5:1 sweep 30:21
33:15 somewhat 13:13 25:1,4,13,23 strict 35:7 22:5
44:6 think 11:2,4,5 tremendous wants 32:16
11:24 21:19 14:20 15:10 25:25 warranted
39:9 32:14,15,18,20 troubling 30:2 urge 11:14 1:11,23
52:4 32:21 33:22,25 true 6:22 17:3 use 10:9 11:8wasn't 15:2
5:9 37:4 41:1,8,17 truest 34:19 uses 10:1,20 49:3
6:4 41:20 42:17 truism 41:5 32:24 40:7 Water 1:4 3:5
8:6 12:6 43:5,8,15 truth 32:21 Usually 47:14way 25:15 32:15
15:11 44:20 45:1,19 trying 8:23 U.S 28:3 33:3,13 37:1
17:10 46:3 48:9 50:2 Tuesday 21:8 44:14 48:16,18
20:13,23 50:13 51:16,18 turn 49:25 V 53:25
52:12 53:2 turned 4:3 v 1:7 3:5 4:25 ways 14:6
35:9 54:9 twice 10:2,5 6:11 8:9 12:5 website 47:20
44:12,15 thinking 30:12 two 12:20,20 Va 1:20 week 13:7
45:10 30:18 38:4 18:25 19:16 vague 47:22 weekly 6:19
49:12 43:4 50:17 30:3,19 31:3 valve 6:9 weight 15:4,7
52:8,17 third 19:3 21:21 37:2 46:2,6 vast 32:6 47:4 well-justified
54:10 23:13 type 6:14 45:22 Vermont 4:25 55:9
thought 24:18 types 45:20 version 26:22 well-taken
40:20 43:20 U versions 43:14 We'll 3:3
26:4,4 44:16 47:21 victims 15:5 whistleblowers
tie-breaker 27:18 24:21,22 25:8 Wilson 1:9 3:6
51:4 time 5:19 6:3 21:17 viewed 54:22 Wisconsin 6:11
20:7 21:1 22:2 undoubtedly views 14:11 43:25 44:5
35:21 37:11 unit 9:3 W 54:22
told 28:2 United 1:1,8,15 want 13:25 work 3:24 4:10
35:10,11 town 30:3 4:25 5:9 6:2,10 21:16 25:6 49:2
55:19 track 28:20 6:17 8:9 12:5 30:25 31:15,17 working 42:5
46:22 13:8 14:15 31:23 32:8 47:23 50:20
49:11 treat 33:1 universities 9:15 wanted 5:12,13 worried 16:15
33:23 3730 26:10
1:7 3:4
14:17 23:3
14:9
1:16 3:2
12:4 27:7
20:3
55:22
12:9
51:18
39:6
5:18
5:19 6:12
22:12
33:4
41:1
22:15 23:1
28:8
31:19
1:12
2:6
4:8
14:9
2:4 19:23
1:12
2:9
