IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
KEN L. SALAZAR, SECRETARY :
OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL., :
Petitioners :
v. : No. 08-472
FRANK BUONO. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October 7, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GEN. ELENA KAGAN, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of
Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the
Petitioners.
PETER J. ELIASBERG, ESQ., Los Angeles, Cal.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GEN. ELENA KAGAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
PETER J. ELIASBERG, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GEN. ELENA KAGAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 54
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first today in Case 08-472, Salazar v. Buono.
General Kagan.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. ELENA KAGAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
GENERAL KAGAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The Establishment Clause does not prohibit
the sensible action Congress took in enacting Section
8121 and thereby divesting the Federal Government of the
property at issue in this case.
The district court gave Congress two basic
options when it found the Sunrise Rock War Memorial
unconstitutional. First, Congress could accede to
permanently removing the memorial, ending the dispute,
but also doing away with a memorial that for 75 years
had commemorated America's fallen soldiers and had
acquired deep meaning for the veterans in the community.
Or, second, Congress --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Kagan, just as a
factual matter, is there any other national memorial
that consists of a solitary cross, just that one symbol
and no other?
GENERAL KAGAN: I don't believe that there
is, Justice Ginsburg. There are national memorials that
have some religious content to them. There is, for
example, a statue of a Catholic priest holding a very
large cross, but most national memorials are -- are not
religious. Some are.
The -- the -- you know, I think that it
would even be possible, for example, to make a church or
a synagogue a national memorial. If -- if Dr. King's
church were selected as a national memorial because of
-- in order to honor Dr. King, I think that would be
permissible. If --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, I was just curious
as a factual matter whether this lone cross, if -- if
there was any other memorial like that, and your answer
is no, but there could be other religiously oriented
memorials?
GENERAL KAGAN: Yes, and there is at least
one religiously oriented memorial that I know of, which
is a priest holding a cross.
JUSTICE ALITO: What are the practical
consequences of something being designated as a national
memorial?
GENERAL KAGAN: Very little, Justice Alito.
In fact, it has no consequences in terms of the
government's supervision of the land. National
memorials can be on private land or on public land. If
they are on private land, nothing goes along with the
designation by way of more extensive regulation or
supervision by the National Park Service.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is the -- is the private
property owner who has this designation free to destroy
it after it's been designated a national memorial?
GENERAL KAGAN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. The
Veterans of Foreign Wars here could in fact take down
this memorial once it is transferred to them, if the
Court allows that transfer.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could they then
substitute whatever other memorial they chose?
GENERAL KAGAN: The --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Or would there have to be
some government approval?
GENERAL KAGAN: No, no, no. The
reversionary clause which is at issue, which is a part
of the transfer legislation, says that the VFW will have
to put up a veterans memorial, but the content of that
veterans memorial is entirely up to the VFW.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it wouldn't
automatically require acquire a national memorial
status, would it, when the government hasn't seen it,
hasn't -- I thought that to get national memorial
status, the government has to approve what you put up.
GENERAL KAGAN: Yes, that's correct. If the
VFW took down this memorial and substituted a different
memorial, that memorial would not at that point have
national memorial status.
There is a little bit of a dispute as to
whether the -- the VFW could in fact take down the
memorial or whether it's designation as a national
memorial would prevent them from doing that. I think
it's quite clear, if you look at the statute, that the
Section 1369, which is what the Respondents point to,
would not prevent the VFW from taking down this
memorial, if it so wanted to, because 1369 applies only
to national memorials which are on public property. If
the transfer were to take place, of course, it would not
be on public property, or it would not be under the
supervision, in any way, of the Federal Government.
So --
JUSTICE SCALIA: General Kagan, before you
go -- go on with your argument, you presented it as --
as though the issue before us is the -- the conveying of
the land. But is it?
What this was was simply an affirmation of
the prior injunction. The court of appeals said the
prior injunction had not been mooted by the -- by the
transfer of the land. So isn't really the issue whether
that -- that prior injunction, when the land did indeed
belong to the government, whether that prior injunction
was valid?
GENERAL KAGAN: Well, there is a question in
this case whether the prior injunction was valid and was
the display itself a violation of the Establishment
Clause.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
GENERAL KAGAN: But the government argued
below that that question had been mooted out because of
the passage of the transfer legislation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But didn't the court of
appeals say no?
GENERAL KAGAN: The court of appeals did say
no, but it remands the government --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so what we have
before us is the court of appeals' affirmation of the
prior injunction, which applied to a cross on public
land.
GENERAL KAGAN: Well, I think what you have
before you, there were of course two stages in this
litigation, and the first stage declared the display
unconstitutional, and then the second stage declared the
transfer as well unconstitutional or at least a
violation of the prior injunction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, if I -- if I
thought the display wasn't unconstitutional, the
transfer would a fortiori not --
GENERAL KAGAN: Well, that is correct. We
do think that the issue before the Court now is the
congressional legislation which has been passed, which
is the transfer legislation, that that has essentially
changed the situation on the ground, so that no longer
is the question whether the display from the -- whether
the display by the government would be constitutional,
but only whether the government has the ability to
transfer this property and -- and to give up all
supervision, all control over it.
So that the message --
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't see why that's the
issue before us. Look, procedurally this is a little
boring, but it seems pretty well established in the law.
I read a case called Toledo Scale and then there are a
bunch of cases on jurisdiction, which I'm not going to
name them because I'm sure you looked at them, but
Travelers Indemnity, et cetera. And it seems to me they
make absolutely clear that once a litigant, you and the
others, have had an opportunity to raise a matter and
now the case is over, done, but for an injunction that
stays in, all those issues that they previously raised
or could have raised are gone; that the only question
left is whether the government has complied with the
injunction.
So I read the injunction. The injunction
says the government is enjoined from permitting the
display of the Latin cross, period. Once this law takes
effect and you follow it, you are violating that
injunction. You don't need nine proceedings to see
that. You are violating it.
Now, if you don't like the injunction
because you think the statute has so changed the
circumstances there is no need for it, there is a
remedy. You go back to the district court and you say:
Judge, change the injunction. But you haven't done
that. And therefore, the only question before us is
whether the Ninth Circuit is right in saying when you
carry the statute into effect, you are violating this
injunction, which I think no one could say you aren't.
Now, now, that -- that's a very technical
boring issue. I don't know why we heard this issue, but
I don't see how we could reach any other issue in this
case.
GENERAL KAGAN: Justice Breyer, I think we
are in perfect compliance with the injunction and have
been since the day it was issued. Now, in fact there
were two injunctions issued. As I said, there were two
stages of this litigation. The first stage ended in an
injunction that said do not display the war memorial.
In compliance with that injunction, the next day the war
memorial was covered. So we were in compliance from
the -- from the moment that the decision issued.
Now then, Respondents went back to the
district court and asked for additional relief, because
what -- during the first court of appeals hearing,
Congress had passed this transfer statute. And so the
Respondents went back and said: In addition to the
injunction that you previously gave us, we essentially
need a new injunction and that injunction will be to
stop the transfer.
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's not what I'm
talking about.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the Respondents
asked to have the injunction enforced. It is typical,
you get an injunction -- and I'm glad that the
government has recognized that that was indeed a final
decision because you appealed it to the Ninth Circuit
under 1291 as a final decision. Then the question is,
are you complying with the injunction. One side says,
the winner -- who by the way has unquestioned standing
to enforce the injunction that is now final that that
party obtained -- the winner says: Court, please
enforce the injunction. They are not asking for a new
injunction. They say this injunction, as Justice Breyer
just explained, says, do not permit the cross. The
party comes in and says: Here's my injunction; court,
all I want you to do is enforce it.
GENERAL KAGAN: Justice Ginsburg, this is
much more than an enforcement action.
JUSTICE BREYER: We are talking about the
first. We are talking about the first injunction. The
first injunction says that the government may not permit
display. You've covered it up, so you are not
permitting display. You are in compliance.
GENERAL KAGAN: That is correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: But what the plaintiff here
said is that when you comply with this statute, you will
not be in compliance, because you will turn it over to
the VFW that will uncover it, so you will have permitted
it to be displayed. Now, that I can see is an issue
before us. But I don't see any other issue before us.
GENERAL KAGAN: Justice Breyer, again, the
Respondents had to go back to the district court in
order not just to enforce the injunction, which said
don't display the statue, but to get additional relief,
which was don't transfer the statue. If the transfer
had taken place, it would no longer have been the
government's property, the government would not have
permitted or not permitted the display because it wasn't
the government's property to permit or not to permit the
display.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me unreasonable
to read the injunction to say the government shall not
permit anybody to display a cross on that land no matter
who owns the land. I assume the injunctions meant you
will not permit the cross to be displayed on this parcel
of government land.
GENERAL KAGAN: And the Ninth Circuit
specifically said -- when this came to the Ninth
Circuit, the Ninth Circuit was asked by the Respondents.
In order to rule on the transfer legislation, the Ninth
Circuit specifically said: We are not going to do that;
that's a decision for another day, a separate decision.
Because of that, the Respondents had to go back to the
district court and had to get the district court
essentially to modify the injunction and to provided
additional relief.
Now, there is some question as to whether
the standing question here, just the standing question
is precluded, and our view is that it is not preclude,
because the way the government views this is it's one
entire litigation in which all issues are open.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you know, General
Kagan, any case in which there has been a permanent
injunction ordered, final, no more appeals are possible,
where -- and standing was in question, raised,
litigated, and decided, and then when the party who won
the injunction comes to the court and says, court,
please enforce the injunction, that you can say, now we
can go back to square one and argue again about
standing? I don't see how you can revive what has been
determined by a final judgment.
GENERAL KAGAN: Well, either this is one
litigation, in which all cases are before the Court, or
it's too entirely separate litigations, in which case
the Court has an obligation to independently consider
the standing question.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, we know it isn't
that because, as I think you pointed out, the same
docket number. This wasn't a new complaint. This was a
motion to enforce the judgment.
GENERAL KAGAN: It couldn't have been a
motion to enforce the judgment because the government
was in compliance with the judgment and because the
Ninth Circuit had said that the question that
respondents were raising was an entirely separate issue
for another day, according to the Ninth Circuit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would suppose -- I
guess I don't agree with your dichotomy, either it's the
same action or it's entirely separate. I would suppose
it could be some issues carry over and are the same, and
perhaps standing is one of those. Other issues are
completely new, such as the effect of the legislation,
which couldn't have been before the district court since
it hadn't been passed.
But standing is different. I mean, once
it's been determined that there is standing and that is
reflected in a final judgment, then I think the later
aspects are simply whether the person -- once it's
embodied in a judgment, I think that is the basis for
standing and not the earlier questions of whether he
visited it enough or planned to visit enough.
GENERAL KAGAN: Mr. Chief Justice, we could
not have taken the standing question to this Court in
the -- in the procedural posture that the case was at at
that point. It would have been really an irresponsible
action on our part to ask this Court to address the
standing issue after the first court of appeals judgment
where -- where we knew that we were going to relitigate
the question of the validity of the transfer. We
couldn't have come to you, we wouldn't have come to you,
as the Solicitor General's Office and asked you to
adjudicate a decision that was as likely as not going to
be irrelevant.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't understand -- I
don't understand that point at all. If you thought that
he didn't have standing to challenge the cross at all
and that the injunction itself directing you to cover up
the cross was wrong, you should have come to the Court.
It was a permanent injunction. You were told you have
interlocutory appeal rights, you have final judgment
rights. At any point you could have come and said: The
order for us to take that flag -- to take that cross off
this land was just plain wrong.
GENERAL KAGAN: I think, Justice Sotomayor,
you are right that we could have, but I don't think that
we would have used our discretion, in a sense knocking
on this Court's door, the Solicitor General's Office
discretion, in order to ask you to decide a question
that was as likely or not going to be completely
irrelevant depending on what happened with respect to
the transfer statute.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But interlocutory appeal
or finality doesn't matter what you are going to do to
get away from the injunction. The issue is did you give
up any rights to challenge any of the issues embodied in
that injunction and you haven't answered why not. You
may have a right, and you do, to challenge a
modification of that injunction. That's what you are
here to do, to say the Ninth Circuit erred in modifying
the injunction and stopping the transfer. Perfectly
legitimate point, because the injunction has been
changed. But you can't go back and relitigate whether
he had standing to challenge that -- the presence of
that cross.
GENERAL KAGAN: Well, Justice Sotomayor, I
appreciate the distinction that you are making between
the standing question and the merits question and I
think you are exactly right as to that point. But
whatever the question as to whether we have given up the
standing question, certainly there is no such question
on the merits of this -- of the validity of this
transfer. But with respect, I think that the standing
question is -- is not the way you described it. And
it's partly because we couldn't have come to this Court
or we wouldn't have come, is a better way to say it. We
would have thought that it was not the right kind of
position to ask the Court to take certiorari on a
question that basically was very likely, we thought, was
very likely to go away.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but that -- that's
because -- that's because you assume the act is going to
be valid. You could have come here and said: This is
such an important case Congress is taking action, and
therefore, you should hear our standing argument to
avoid the necessity of the Legislative Branch having to
come in. You could have said that.
GENERAL KAGAN: Well, but we didn't, because
we did think that Congress had acted appropriately and
that the congressional act was valid, and continue to do
so, continue to think that this --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but the standing
issue was independently important to the government,
because the government can face this kind of question
again, and if you right -- if you were right on the
standing point -- I mean, I don't understand why the
government would not have had a strong incentive to say,
we want to get rid of these cases on the standing
ground, we think the Court was wrong on standing.
But in any case, you didn't do that, and I
think that you started your argument this morning in the
right place when you said, let's talk about this law.
Congress said, accepting arguendo that the Court was
right, here's a law that cures the constitutional
defect. And that's where you were -- that's where you
started your argument. Maybe you can pick up with that.
But --
JUSTICE BREYER: But just I want to just get
this clear procedurally. I'm sorry. It'll take one
more second.
As I read this, there is no modification of
any injunction. What the -- what the Respondent asked
for, he said: Judge, either hold that the transfer
violates the current injunction, or modify the
injunction. Then what the district court did do is he
said the proposed transfer violates the permanent
injunction. The permanent injunction is in the, like,
the third paragraph of the July 24th order, and it says,
you are permanently enjoined from permitting the display
of the Latin cross. Therefore, he rejected the need to
modify it, and held that --
GENERAL KAGAN: Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- this violates the
injunction as written, and the Ninth Circuit affirmed
that.
So is there any question in this case of
modifying? Is there any question other than the one
that I think Justice Scalia was taking a good argument
about, whether the proposed statute violates the
July 24th injunction? That's what the case is about.
Or why am I wrong?
GENERAL KAGAN: You -- you are incorrect,
Justice Breyer, because in addition to saying this
violates the previously given injunction, the district
court said, you are enjoined from transferring this
property in accordance with this statute. And so there
was additional relief, additional relief that the Ninth
Circuit said was additional relief that it wasn't
deciding in the first go-round, and that's -- and that
places the question, the merits question of the validity
of this transfer, directly before the Court.
JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before we get --
before your time expires, we would like to spend a
couple of minutes on the merits.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I wonder if you
could focus on a particular question. What if the
government sold simply one square foot, or whatever the
area that the base of the cross is -- is resting on the
ground? Would your argument be the same?
GENERAL KAGAN: Mr. Chief Justice, there are
certainly limits to the way that the government can
transfer property, and I would give you a few of them.
If -- if it was not a bona fide sale, so that there
wasn't proper consideration; if -- if there was only
religious purpose, so that there was no secular purpose
involved; or if after the sale the property was
indistinguishable from government property, so that
everybody naturally thought that this was government
property. In those cases --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why isn't that
-- why isn't that the case here?
GENERAL KAGAN: In fact, it's not the case
here. And it's not the case for two reasons. First,
the preserve is riddled with private inholdings. There
are 1800 private landowners with -- excuse me, 1,000
private landowners with 1800 plots of land.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But what percentage of the
total area do they represent?
GENERAL KAGAN: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE STEVENS: What percentage of the
total area do they represent?
GENERAL KAGAN: It's about -- between the
State and the private inholdings, it's about 10 percent
of the total area. But they are dotted all over the
place. So tomorrow, 1,000 crosses could go up and
nobody would know whether they were on private land or
on public land. Moreover --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But do you concede there
was a violation at the time the case was decided?
GENERAL KAGAN: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you concede that the
Establishment Clause was violated at the time this case
was decided?
GENERAL KAGAN: We do not, Justice Stevens.
The government has argued -- argued below that there was
no violation prior to the transfer statute, and that
remains the government's position, although, as I said
to Justice Scalia, we think that that position has been
overtaken by events and that the only question before
the Court is the transfer statute.
I was going to go on to say to the Chief
Justice that, in addition to the fact that private
inholdings just riddle the preserve, the government is
perfectly happy to put up signs which make clear that
the -- the plot in question will not in fact be the
government's, but will be the VFW's.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, isn't that an
interference or it's singling out someone, private
property owner, who's using his property in a particular
way, a religious way? You are going to be putting up
signs only for people putting up religious symbols.
GENERAL KAGAN: I don't think that that is
correct, Mr. Chief Justice. I think that the preserve
would put up signs for various historic or cultural or
otherwise important --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it hasn't done
anything like that. It doesn't say for other property
owners that have maybe something that -- you know, a
ramshackle shack, that they want people to know this
isn't the government's property. They don't do anything
like that.
It's -- under your hypothetical, it would be
only religious property that would have these special
warning signs.
GENERAL KAGAN: Well, I suspect that there
are a great many identification signs throughout the
preserve, although I don't know precisely what they are.
And this would be one of those, saying essentially that
there is this war memorial, that it was put up by the
VFW, that it is maintained and owned by the VFW.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Who would see it, General
Kagan? Who would see it? I mean, the Seventh Circuit
case, it was -- it was on level ground, lots of people
used the area, and I think the Seventh Circuit required
a fence and a sign. But here, this cross is high on a
cliff in a desolate area. And if you had a little sign,
who would be -- you would have to climb up to it.
GENERAL KAGAN: I actually think, Justice
Ginsburg, that it would be easy to do. I was out there
three or four weeks ago. The superintendent drove me to
the site. There is virtually nobody who could see this
war memorial in any other way than by going in one of
two directions on Cima Road. And you could put signs up
on Cima Road that said exactly what you were going to
see, you know, in 100 yards or a mile or whatever it
was.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is the question
of -- I don't want to get into your rebuttal time, but
briefly, how is the question of whether signs are or
aren't valid or required before us in this case? There
are no signs there, and you are asking us to consider
whether the statute is valid or not.
GENERAL KAGAN: I think, Mr. Chief Justice,
that if we were not going to put up signs, it would
still be valid. So I should make that completely clear.
And as I said, there are many, many private
holdings within the preserve, people who could put up
whatever religious symbols they wanted to. One simply
wouldn't know whether it was on private land or on other
land. But I will say, in addition to that, that the
preserve's superintendent himself would like to put up a
sign essentially telling preserve users what the war
memorial was and what its provenance was. If some --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't there legislation
that requires the original plaque to be reinstated, the
plaque recognizing the donation and what it means?
GENERAL KAGAN: That's correct, Justice
Sotomayor. But I have to say that that's more of the
kind of sign that maybe Justice Ginsburg had in mind,
which is, it's smaller and you would have to go right up
to the war memorial in order to see it.
I think it would be very easy to put up
signs just on the road to make clear that anybody who
was in the area would know that this was land --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This would be on
government land, that sign? It wouldn't be on the acre
that you transferred. I'm a little confused.
GENERAL KAGAN: The small plaque.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are talking about
putting --
GENERAL KAGAN: The small plaque --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would go on the cross?
GENERAL KAGAN: That's correct.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The larger sign you're
talking about that you are willing to do is a sign that
you would put on government land.
GENERAL KAGAN: That's correct. And as I
said, it's something that the superintendent would like
to do and I think would be consistent with signage in
the area. If I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Did you raise that
alternative with the Ninth -- with the district court
and the Ninth Circuit?
GENERAL KAGAN: I don't believe it ever came
up, Justice Sotomayor. We did talk about it in our
merits brief to this Court, but I don't think that it
ever came up below.
If I could reserve the balance of my time,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Eliasberg.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER J. ELIASBERG
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. ELIASBERG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
Justice Breyer, I would like to direct my
beginning remarks to you. I believe you've correctly
stated the procedural posture exactly right. The only
question, point that I would make, is that I don't
believe we did -- there was a modification of the
injunction here. Any time a defendant passes a piece of
legislation after an injunction is first entered, there
may be a question as to whether that new statute or
legislation is consistent with the injunction. But it's
not new relief.
JUSTICE BREYER: I see what the judge did.
He said: The motion to enforce the July 24th injunction
is granted. He said: Buono's motion to amend it is
denied. Then he did two other things, which he listed
some people and he said they are enjoined from
implementing the law.
Now, I take it that those paragraphs 3 and 4
are an implementation of the July 24 injunction which he
granted, not a new injunction.
MR. ELIASBERG: That's exactly correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: So that's the issue here
that we were just possibly debating. The issue in the
case is whether the district judge might lawfully
enforce an old injunction in the manner he did, which
was to add paragraphs 3 and 4. That question you
concede is here.
MR. ELIASBERG: I believe that's -- that is
here and that is really the only question that is here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that under your
approach that this is looking to see if the injunction
is being enforced or violated, we would be reviewing an
act of Congress under an abuse of discretion standard,
not -- not de novo?
MR. ELIASBERG: That's correct. But for
this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Have we ever done
that before?
MR. ELIASBERG: I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Have we ever said
that an act of Congress is unconstitutional without a
de novo review of the merits of the constitutionality?
MR. ELIASBERG: I am not aware of that, but
I am also not aware of a situation where the act of
Congress is being put forth as the response to an
already adjudicated constitutional violation.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Eliasberg, I thought
that the Ninth Circuit the first time around had taken
meticulous care to make certain that the issue of the
validity of the statute would not be before the Court in
the first round. Judge Kozinski wrote: "We express no
view as to whether a transfer completed under Section
8121 would pass constitutional muster, but leave this
question for another day."
That's on page 104a of the petition.
And then the district judge said: Yes, I
recognize the Ninth Circuit didn't touch the validity of
that statute, left it for another day. The day has
come. So it is for the first time that the Court is
deciding the question of whether section 8121 passes
constitutional muster.
MR. ELIASBERG: The only thing I would
disagree with you on that point, Justice Ginsburg, is
that the question is whether the act of Congress
remedies the already adjudicated constitutional
violation and is consistent with the injunction.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So when you get to
the consistent with the injunction part -- I thought it
was your position that we should review this question
solely under an abuse of discretion standard?
MR. ELIASBERG: It is our position --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because while the
Court did not decide the validity of the act in the
first case, it certainly did in the second case, which
is why we have the case before us.
MR. ELIASBERG: That is correct. We
believe -- but may I make two points, Mr. Chief Justice?
First, we believe in the enforcement context
where the question is, is this a violation of an already
entered injunction that was part of a final judgment,
that that is traditional equity principles that you
review for an abuse of discretion. Nonetheless, we
believe that we win even under a de novo standard.
So -- and if I could set forth some of the reasons for
that.
I think, Justice Breyer, that you have it
exactly correct, that what the government has done here
by selecting a particular transferee who has been given
preferential access to the land in the past to the
exclusion of others who wanted to erect other symbols,
that the government is taking affirmative steps to
permit, through this transfer statute, the display of
the cross that they are enjoined from doing.
Now, Justice Scalia, I believe your point is
at some point if this is on private land and the
government is not making any efforts to further this
display, that it couldn't possibly be that the
injunction forbids that. And that may well be correct,
but that is not the case we have in front of it.
The government in this transfer statute has
made a significant number of affirmative steps to ensure
that the cross remains up. It has selected --
JUSTICE ALITO: When this injunction was
first entered the statute -- nobody contemplated that
this statute was going to be enacted; isn't that
correct?
MR. ELIASBERG: When the district court
entered the injunction, that is correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes. So isn't the sensible
interpretation of the injunction that it was prohibiting
the government from permitting the display of the cross
on government property, and not on private property that
happens to be within the Mojave National Preserve?
MR. ELIASBERG: I don't believe so, Justice
Scalia -- excuse me -- Justice Alito, for a couple of
reasons. One of the bases for the entry of the
injunction in the first instance was the way that the
government had favored one party to come on, contrary to
the government's own regulations, and erect a permanent
symbol, while not allowing others.
JUSTICE ALITO: Wasn't your argument that
this was a violation of the Establishment Clause because
it was on government land? Did you make the argument
that even if this was on one of the ranches within the
Mojave National Preserve, it would still be a violation
of the Establishment Clause?
MR. ELIASBERG: We did not make that
argument because it wasn't presented to the Court.
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, it was a totally -- so
the situation completely changed and the district court
either modified the injunction -- it seems to me
modified the injunction by interpreting it to mean
something quite different from what anybody contemplated
it meant when it was originally entered?
MR. ELIASBERG: Well, I think that, as is
traditional equity principles, the district court is at
some level the master of its injunction and that's why
we give an abuse of discretion standard. The district
court very clearly said: I see this as an attempt by
the government not to abide by my injunction; they are
favoring the same parties they favored when -- that was
part of the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, of course, it was
that, but the question is whether it was a permissible
amendment by the government of the situation. Of
course, I will stipulate that the government was trying
to arrange it so that the cross could remain there. But
that doesn't mean that it was -- it was evading the
injunction. I mean, that's --
MR. ELIASBERG: Well, I think it is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Unless the injunction
clearly applied to the erection of a cross on private
land that the government had -- had transferred.
MR. ELIASBERG: Well, but it's not the
erection of the cross. It is the transfer of something
where the government has a reversionary interest. It
very much directs the way the VFW is likely to use the
land. It selected a particular transferee who has been
favored from the beginning. They didn't say: We're
going to neutrally sell the land in order to allow this
constitutional violation to be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I will -- I will concede
that the obvious purpose of that was to avoid being in
violation of the injunction. But that doesn't mean that
it's invalid.
MR. ELIASBERG: Well, I believe it's invalid
because I think that the affirmative steps they are
taking here really make them -- put them in a position
where they are permitting --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can -- can -- what,
what -- let's start from the beginning. Can -- would it
be proper for the government or would the government be
alleged to have violated the Establishment Clause if on
another ranch that cross -- a cross went up?
MR. ELIASBERG: No, they would not.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So really
your argument is that the reason this Court -- this
cross on private land, if it becomes private, is
offensive to the Establishment Clause is because of the
government's prior history with respect to that cross,
correct? That's -- that's your argument?
MR. ELIASBERG: That is one part of my
argument. But there is another part. The government
has taken the step of designating this cross one of 49
national memorials in the whole country and the only
national memorial commemorating American service in
World War I, even though it's clear in the record --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So are you alleging that
doing that violates the Establishment Clause, passing or
designating a religious symbol as a national memorial,
that that violates the Establishment Clause?
MR. ELIASBERG: We are alleging that under
the totality of the circumstances, which includes the
national memorial designation, the government's asserted
purpose to make sure that the cross remains up, the
government's favoritism of the same parties that it has
always favored in this case to the exclusion of others,
and the maintaining of the property interest in the land
in the form of a reversionary interest, all of those
things --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does that apply to all
lands in this preserve?
MR. ELIASBERG: I'm sorry, does what apply
to all lands?
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does the reversionary
interest apply to all of lands on this preserve? Maybe
your adversary has to answer that instead of you, but
all of the other private property owners.
MR. ELIASBERG: No, the reversionary
interest specifically says the land reverts to the
government if --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, no. Are all of
the private owners on this preserve required to give the
land back to the U.S. if they put it to some different
use?
MR. ELIASBERG: I don't believe that that
is true.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, if -- if --
if the government sold this land to a private party, no
cross in the picture at all, and they go to settlement
and at settlement the private landowner who is going to
buy it says, you know, I'm going to put a big cross up
on this property once I get it, can the government still
sell it to him?
MR. ELIASBERG: Yes, absolutely.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MR. ELIASBERG: If the basis for the
government's decision to sell the -- sell the land was a
neutral basis. And that's what we are saying here. If
what the government has done --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So even though
before the sale, even though the government knows there
is going to be a big cross on the land with the same
situation you have here in the middle of the preserve
and all, that's perfectly okay?
MR. ELIASBERG: No, it's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you said
before the government sold the land if they find out the
new owner is going to put a cross on it there is no
problem.
MR. ELIASBERG: The difference between those
two scenarios, Mr. Chief Justice, is one is a remedial
context. The government has been held to violate the
Constitution. They have to, under Milliken v. Bradley
and U.S. v. Virginia, take all steps necessary to erase
that constitutional violation.
The situation in the first hypothetical you
gave me, there has never been an adjudicated
constitutional violation. It's a very different
situation.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But isn't it also a very
different case if a condition of the transfer is that
the transferee will preserve a memorial that has been
designated in the statute as a five-foot-tall white
cross.
MR. ELIASBERG: I think that is --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So it is a condition of
the transfer.
MR. ELIASBERG: As I was stating to Justice
Sotomayor, that is one of the factors that we believe
separates this situation from the kind of hypotheticals
that you're setting forth.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you disagree with
what she told us, which is that the private property
owner can tear down the cross at any time?
MR. ELIASBERG: I think that there are very
significant obstacles to their doing that. One, I don't
-- I disagree with the General's -- General Kagan's
description of the criminal statute that prohibits the
defacement of memorials on private land, because one of
the provisions is that we will consider it a situation
that is covered by the statute that the land be under
the jurisdiction of the Federal Government. Well, the
land -- the statute that designated the Mojave Preserve
very clearly says that the land is being transferred
from the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management
to the National Park Service and the Secretary of the
Interior, so it is therefore clearly under the
jurisdiction of the Federal Government. So I think that
there is -- there are possible criminal violations.
There is also a significant question --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You say under the
jurisdiction of the Federal Government. Does that -- do
you just mean they have authority to regulate the land?
MR. ELIASBERG: That's correct. But that's
the way the statute is written, under Federal
jurisdiction, so I believe that those two terms --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I suppose they
have jurisdiction to regulate a lot of -- lot of land
that they don't own.
MR. ELIASBERG: Well I think that in this
case when the government is actually -- there's quite a
bit of case law -- we set forth some in our brief --
where they talk about the government's power over land
that's within a national preserve, so I do think that
the criminal statutes may very well apply.
It certainly would be a barrier to the VFW's
thinking, well, no risk to us if we tear this cross
down. In addition, the government is required, as I
believe one of the Justices and I don't remember
which -- the government has been required to go back and
put up a plaque that says: This cross erected in honor
of the foreign war dead. It would be very odd indeed, I
believe for the VFW --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What else -- what
else does the plaque say.
MR. ELIASBERG: The plaque says: "This
cross" -- in big letters -- "erected in honor of the
dead of foreign wars." I think it would be very --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that's it?
Nothing else?
MR. ELIASBERG: Nothing else. I think it
would be very odd indeed for the VFW to feel that it was
free to take down the cross and put up, for example, a
statues of a soldier which would honor all of the people
who fought for America in World War I, not just
Christians, and say: Well, we were free to do that
because even though there's the sign that says, this
cross is designated to honor all the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The cross doesn't honor
non-Christians who fought in the war? Is that -- is
that --
MR. ELIASBERG: I believe that's actually
correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where does it say that?
MR. ELIASBERG: It doesn't say that, but a
cross is the predominant symbol of Christianity and it
signifies that Jesus is the son of God and died to
redeem mankind for our sins, and I believe that's why
the Jewish war veterans --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's erected as a war
memorial. I assume it is erected in honor of all of the
war dead. It's the -- the cross is the -- is the most
common symbol of -- of -- of the resting place of the
dead, and it doesn't seem to me -- what would you have
them erect? A cross -- some conglomerate of a cross, a
Star of David, and you know, a Moslem half moon and
star?
MR. ELIASBERG: Well, Justice Scalia, if I
may go to your first point. The cross is the most
common symbol of the resting place of Christians. I
have been in Jewish cemeteries. There is never a cross
on a tombstone of a Jew.
(Laughter.)
MR. ELIASBERG: So it is the most common
symbol to honor Christians.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think you can leap
from that to the conclusion that the only war dead that
that cross honors are the Christian war dead. I think
that's an outrageous conclusion.
MR. ELIASBERG: Well, my -- the point of
my -- point here is to say that there is a reason the
Jewish war veterans came in and said we don't feel
honored by this cross. This cross can't honor us
because it is a religious symbol of another religion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can I get back to
your plaque question? Am I wrong? I think the
government told us the plaque reads: "The cross erected
in memory the dead of all wars, erected 1934 by members
of Veterans of Foreign Wars, Death Valley Post 2884."
MR. ELIASBERG: That is correct, Mr. Chief
Justice, and I apologize. I forgot --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a big
difference. I mean, the whole point is that the plaque
tells you, this is not a government memorial, government
structure. It was put up by members of the Veterans of
Foreign Wars, Death Valley Post 2884.
MR. ELIASBERG: Mr. Chief Justice, the
context of your question was would VFW feel constrained
to keep the cross up? And my point was --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The context of my
question was what does the plaque say?
MR. ELIASBERG: Well -- I -- I apologize for
not giving the full text, that was not my intention to
-- to mislead the Court or to you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right.
MR. ELIASBERG: My only point is that in
that scenario, because did I believe we were talking
about, is the VFW free to do this, and I was pointing to
the criminal statute that I said I believe said that
they couldn't -- wouldn't feel free to take this down.
But second of all, that it would be odd indeed for them
to take it down when there is a big plaque that says
this cross erected. With all of the --
JUSTICE ALITO: When the Solicitor General
represents to us that the VFW will be perfectly free to
modify this memorial in any way it chooses if they
obtain title to this land, do you think that there's any
realistic fear that they will be required to maintain
this cross, even if they wish to -- to change it in some
way?
MR. ELIASBERG: Well, I think that there is
a real -- well, but -- but I don't think that the cases
turn on whether a prosecutor says well, I promise you
that we are not going to enforce the statute. I think
we have to look at the words of the statute and the
words of the reversionary interest, and I think they
both create significant doubt as to whether the VFW
would feel free to turn this -- to take it down, in the
same way that in a context where you are talking about
pre-enforcement --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I thought your
argument was that although there was going to be a
formal transfer of title, as a practical matter, the
government was still involved with the maintenance of
the cross on this land. And when the government says
that that's not the case, I don't know why that doesn't
cure the practical problem.
MR. ELIASBERG: Well, that -- the -- the
question of government -- continued government
involvement with the land, I believe, continues, because
of the reversionary interest and because of the
designation as a national memorial. Whatever the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think -- I think
General Kagan agreed that they -- the Veterans couldn't
substitute some other memorial, if it's going to be a
national monument it has to have the government's
approval. And the only one that has the government's
approval is the cross.
MR. ELIASBERG: That is correct, Justice
Ginsburg. I don't want to speak for General Kagan but
with respect to the question --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I -- I thought the
government's position was it had to be maintained as a
national war -- as a war memorial, but not that it had
to be maintained as a cross.
MR. ELIASBERG: That is the government's
position. But Justice Ginsburg, your question is would
something else they put up be a national memorial, and
the answer is no. Only Congress has the power to
designate a national memorial. Congress has chosen to
designate this particular stand-alone Latin cross as a
government -- as a national memorial.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the
government's argument that suppose the government took
down the cross, gave it back to the Veterans of Foreign
Wars, sold them the land in exchange for land of equal
value, and then the Veterans said, fine, the cross was
ours to begin with. Now the land is ours, so we just
put it back. If that would be consistent with the
injunction?
The government now has nothing to do with
the cross. It's all the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and
it can't be regarded a sham because it was originally
the Veterans of Foreign Wars who put it up, the
government didn't put it up.
MR. ELIASBERG: I believe that that --
obviously not the facts presented by our case, Justice
Ginsburg, but that likely would be consistent with the
injunction, that's correct. But it is not the scenario
we have here.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then we are talking about
something that is rather formal rather than substantial.
If -- if all the government would have to do is say,
Congress, you didn't get it right. You should have just
made the land swap. And then the government would take
down the cross in compliance with the injunction, and
then it goes right back the next day.
MR. ELIASBERG: Well, I think if there -- if
there were -- I think it's not just formalism, Your
Honor, because one, the reversionary -- I am assuming
that in your hypothetical the reversionary interest is
gone. That is continuing government ownership, future
ownership in property, and one of the government's
principal arguments is when we sell to it a private
owner everyone presumes that the private owner is the
speaker.
But when the government maintains a
substantial future property interest, they haven't sold
the land. They've sold part of their interest in the
land. So if you take away the reversionary interest and
you remove the national memorial designation and then
the VFW independently does choose to put up the cross,
it's more than formalism. It is the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But there is also the
point that I don't think you stressed, that if the
reversionary interest was activated -- say they
abandoned or destroyed it, the property would come back
to the government. And if I read the -- the designation
of the national memorial statute correctly, the
Department of Interior would have to rebuild the old
cross and put it up. There's an affirmative duty to
replace the cross if there is a reversion.
MR. ELIASBERG: I believe that that is
correct, Justice Stevens, and that's an important point
that is intertwined with the fact that the reversionary
interest also continues the government's ownership in
the land, when their whole position is, if we privatize
it, as Justice Scalia pointed out, if it's just a
private owner, then we don't associate this cross with
the government. We associate it with the private owner.
But the government hasn't done that. It has
maintained an important ownership interest in the land
through that reversionary interest. If there are no
further questions, I will --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question:
Do you think the issues in this case would be -- stay
the same or different, if this whole scenario occurred
on the Mall in -- right out in front of the
Washington -- the Lincoln Memorial?
Would the -- the issues be any different if
it were not an isolated memorial in the desert?
MR. ELIASBERG: Context has always mattered
to this Court in Establishment Clause cases.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And which way would it
cut, if it is different?
MR. ELIASBERG: Well, I do think that
Washington is, certainly, a seat of power, and there is,
obviously, a close tie between something that is put on
the National Mall in the seat of government, but I do
think that the designation of a national memorial is
also significant.
So, even though this may be an area that is
not nearly as populated as Washington, D.C., it is very
significant that Congress has taken the step with this
particular symbol, one of only 49 in the country,
grouping it with other iconic statues and memorials in
this country and tied it.
So I don't think that the distinction,
although it might have some bearing in the Court, in
thinking of the context, I don't think it would change
the result.
Justice Kennedy, I want to go back to -- to
one question you had asked earlier about the posture,
and I just want to reiterate. You, very clearly, said,
when the government was saying, well, we didn't have a
good reason to bring this to the Court, and that's why
we didn't, I think your question recognized that the
government had very good reasons.
But -- but in addition, it's not really
important, when you have a final judgment, why a party
chooses not to try to take the last step of appeal on a
final judgment, and that's the United States v.
Munsingwear case.
The government chose not to make that step.
The judgment was final, and there, certainly, is no
basis for this Court to reopen the issues about whether
Mr. Buono had standing in the first instance.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, wasn't -- isn't this
very different from the situation in Toledo
Steel because -- Scale, I'm sorry -- because, if the
merits issue that was before the Ninth Circuit was, if
not technically moot, nearly moot, by the time they
reached it, because of the passage of the new statute.
This wasn't -- they said it's not moot
because this is simply the voluntary cessation of
conduct that's been held to be unlawful, but that is
typically applied in the situation where there is a
legitimate fear that the -- the party that has been held
to be violating the Constitution may simply return to
its bad old ways, once the litigation is over.
But, here, you have the intervening
enactment of a statute by the Constitution -- by the
Congress of the United States, and I think it would be
quite far-fetched to presume that Congress is simply
going to repeal the statute and go back to the way
things were, once the litigation is over.
So you have a merits issue that's not -- if
technically moot, nearly moot. The real merits issue in
the case is -- is expressly not decided by the Ninth
Circuit. They say, take that back to the district
court. And you say that the standing issue goes away
because the government didn't appeal the standing issue
at a time when the real merits issue in the case had not
been decided.
MR. ELIASBERG: Well, two points, if I may,
Justice Alito. First, the first reason that the Ninth
Circuit gave for why the case wasn't moot was not
voluntary cessation. The government conceded the land
transfer could take up to two years to effectuate, so in
the Ninth Circuit, that this case is far from moot.
Two years is more than enough time to file
the government to file the petition for certiorari and
had a ruling, both on the merits of the land on -- the
cross on government property, but more important, as a
number of Justices had pointed out, the question of
standing to bring an Establishment Clause case, the
government always have an interest in saying, this case
should never have been brought. We never should had
have had a judgment entered against us.
For the government to say, we didn't really
care at that point because, two years from now, the
transfer might be effectuated is not basis for them to
argue that there was no final judgment and no reason for
us to appeal.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think General Kagan
recognized that there isn't an example of a final
injunction, where, after it's final as it can be, you
can come back and say, but, now, I want to reargue the
standing question that's already been determined.
But there was something that I did want to
ask you about, Judge O'Scanlon's opinion. He said,
if -- if you prevail and you are right, what happens in
Arlington Cemetery, where there's the Argonne Cross
Memorial and the Canadian Cross of Sacrifice, both right
here in Arlington, what happens to them?
MR. ELIASBERG: Going back, Justice
Ginsburg, to the merits on the earlier question about a
cross on government property, I believe that the Argonne
Cross in the national -- in memorial cemetery is
extremely different.
There are, in the national cemeteries,
the -- the VA offers, to veterans and their family, a
choice of putting up 39 different emblems and beliefs on
their tombstones. In Arlington, there is a cross that
is surrounded by a sea of tombstones with symbols of the
faith of all of the different service members.
In that context, I don't think anyone would
perceive that the government was favoring one particular
religion because of the variety of choices and religious
symbols expressed there. That's very different from a
stand-alone cross of one religious symbol that is not
surrounded by any other context, other than --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Has the government ever
turned down -- let's say the Jewish war veterans request
to put up a war memorial on --
MR. ELIASBERG: They did. There was a
request made for -- to put up a memorial on the site,
and the government said no and said, our regulations
forbid it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I am talking about -- on
this site?
MR. ELIASBERG: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You know, well, I'm not
talking about this site, where there already was a
memorial, but suppose the -- what I'm getting at is I
don't agree with you, that -- that every time the
government allows any religious symbol to be erected, it
has to allow all religious symbols to be erected at the
same place, so long as it is -- it is not discriminatory
in -- in accepting or rejecting requests to erect
religious symbols in different places.
I don't see why the government is convicted
of being discriminatory.
MR. ELIASBERG: I think the context here is
what has the government done with respect to national
memorials. The only two national memorials that are
stand-alone religious symbols are of one particular
religious denomination, and that's Christianity.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but you don't --
and they -- were both of them proposed by a private
group, such as the Veterans of Foreign Wars?
MR. ELIASBERG: Well, it's Congress -- I
don't know that the Veterans of Foreign Wars ever
proposed that this be a national memorial. Congress
designated it as one.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but it was erected by
the Veterans of Foreign Wars. I mean, do you know of
any instance in which Jewish war veterans or if there is
an organization of Muslim war veterans, requested to
erect a memorial on public land, it was turned down?
MR. ELIASBERG: As I said before --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I just don't see why they
all have to be on the same piece of land, in -- in order
for the government to be impartial.
MR. ELIASBERG: I'm not saying that in --
in -- that, in every circumstance, the government has to
have lots of different symbols, but what the government
has done here --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I think you are
saying that, and you are saying that this has to be a
public forum. In fact, I'm not even sure your -- your
brief would limit it to religious symbols. You say it
has to be an open forum. Right?
MR. ELIASBERG: Well, Justice Scalia, if I
make one prefatory point, the government didn't bring to
this Court the merits of the question of whether the
cross was permissible on government property.
There is a final judgment set in this
circumstance. In this context, it is not. So that
question is not properly before us, but context matters,
and I do think, in other circumstances, there may be
religious symbols. There may be a myriad of religious
symbols and the context of the situation will matter.
But I think if, in Arlington, for example --
with respect to Justice Ginsburg's question. If, for
example, a foreign government -- let's take the Canadian
Cross of Sacrifice, which the government has put in its
brief, was donated by a foreign government to honor
people -- Americans who fought for Canada and the
British Empire, in I believe it was World War I, if the
State of Israel made a similar request to the United
States, we would like to honor the Jews who fought in
Operation Iraqi Freedom because we believe that that was
an important defense of the State of Israel, and the
United States said, no, we are not interested, I think
that that would create a quite significant
constitutional violation -- or constitutional question,
but it's not the case in front of us.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask a different
question, just based on your understanding of all these
monuments? Are there any other federal monuments that
contained crosses, other than those associated with the
cemeteries?
MR. ELIASBERG: The one national memorial
that I am aware of that has a cross, it is of Father
Marquette, who was a significant historical figure. It
is not a stand-alone cross. It is Father Marquette
surrounded by a number of various objects that show his
role as a historical figure, exploring the middle west,
and he is holding a cross.
But, again, I think -- I agree with General
Kagan that, if we honored Martin Luther King, who was a
priest, or we honored -- we did something with the Old
North Church which had significant historical
significance, that would create a very different issue
than simply a stand-alone cross, where, when the
National Park Service asked its own historian to
determine whether it had historical value necessary to
bring it within the National Register of Historic
Places, the Park Service's own historian said, no, it
did not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, this
probably doesn't have anything to do with anything, but
I'm just kind of curious, why is this cross put up --
you know, in the middle of nowhere?
(Laughter. )
MR. ELIASBERG: Because the man who
originally put up the cross -- not this one, because it
has been replaced a number of times, but the man who put
up this particular cross, I believe was a homesteader in
the area when the land was owned by the Bureau of Land
Management, and I believe was a miner on the land. I
hope that is correct historically. I believe it is.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you.
General, you have 2 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. ELENA KAGAN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
GENERAL KAGAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
To pick up right there, this stand-alone
cross was erected as a World War I memorial by veterans
of World War I who had gone to the desert in California
to recuperate and to restore their lives.
And it was that situation that the -- that
the Congress was presented with, was when the Ninth
Circuit ruled and said that this memorial was
unconstitutional, Congress had a choice. And the choice
was to take down that memorial, which meant an enormous
amount to veterans in the community, or to completely
dissociate the government from that memorial. And what
Congress did was to completely dissociate the government
from that memorial while allowing some war memorial to
stand.
JUSTICE STEVENS: How can you say that when
there's a reversionary interest? How can you say it's
completely dissociated? There is a reversionary
interest if they don't maintain the cross, which is the
monument, it goes back to the government.
GENERAL KAGAN: Justice Stevens, with
respect, the reversionary interest says that the holder,
the VFW, has to maintain a war memorial. It does not --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but the particular
memorial described by Congress was this cross.
GENERAL KAGAN: No, the reversionary
interest simply says: A war memorial. It does not have
to be this war memorial.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but then it doesn't
-- I don't think it's fair to interpret Congress's
interest to being and preserving this memorial.
GENERAL KAGAN: To the contrary, Justice
Stevens. When Congress wanted to say "this memorial,"
it knew to how to say it, because it said it in the 2002
act.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right.
GENERAL KAGAN: In the 2004 act, it said
something very different. That was after the injunction
had issued, so it was a completely different set of
circumstances. Congress understood that an injunction
against this war memorial had issued. Congress said:
We are going to give this back to the VFW, but it's
going to be the VFW's choice now as to what to do with
it, consistent with it being some kind of war memorial.
A reversionary interest of a kind that Congress often
uses to -- when it transfers land. Congress -- it's a
completely --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you think anyone
thought there is the remotest possibility they would put
up a different memorial?
GENERAL KAGAN: I think it's left to the
VFW, and it's entirely the VFW's choice. So if tomorrow
or ten years from now or 50 years from now the VFW
decides, along with Respondents, that a cross is an
inappropriate war memorial, then they can take down that
war memorial. It's no longer the government's message.
JUSTICE STEVENS: How can they say it's an
inappropriate war memorial when Congress has designated
the national memorial as, quote, "the five-foot-tall
white cross" and so forth and so on? That is what is
the memorial.
GENERAL KAGAN: But there is no -- there is
no prohibition on the VFW taking down this memorial. We
will just have one fewer national memorials. And --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you really think there
is any possibility that would happen?
GENERAL KAGAN: Again, I think it is
entirely up to the VFW.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That is not my question.
GENERAL KAGAN: I don't know, because I am
not the VFW. It is up to the VFW as to what happens to
this war memorial. That's also true of the plaque, that
the plaque could -- the VFW could take down the plaque
once the -- the VFW gains title to this property.
So what the government has done here -- and
Justice Stevens, I don't want to -- of course, you are
right that Congress started out thinking they --
JUSTICE STEVENS: They not only started it
out, but they authorized the use of $10,000 in money in
order to replace the very cross they had designated as a
memorial.
GENERAL KAGAN: Justice Stevens, you are, of
course, right that Congress thought at the beginning,
prior to the injunction, that this war memorial should
not be taken down, that there was an attachment to it in
the local community, and that it was -- that it should
be retained. Not an unnatural thing for Congress to
want, to preserve war memorials.
When the injunction issued and when the
court found that the -- when the Congress found that the
courts had declared this display of this memorial
unconstitutional, Congress said: How can we preserve
this -- preserve a war memorial, very possibly this war
memorial? How can we preserve a war memorial but have
it not be our choice?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Counsel, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:06 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
agreed 42:7 appreciate authority 37:1 40:22 42:3
58:21 30:13,21 41:2 17:10 5:24 54:16
47:6 48:9 42:10,11 aware 27:10,11 better 16:22
31:5 alleging 33:5,9 area 19:21 20:16 a.m 1:14 3:2 37:25 40:5,25
25:3 46:5 B boring 8:19 9:22
27:8,11 31:12 argued 7:11 43:3,7,25 18:4,18,19
56:6,8 America 38:8 21:8,8 44:20 46:15 19:4,13 25:19
14:6,23 52:22 2:2,7 3:4,6 56:13 52:5,21
America's 3:19 6:21 17:6,22 bad 47:18 briefly 23:12
21:15 33:24 42:22 32:25 41:20 based 53:8 British 52:23
37:16 answered 16:3 43:2 54:19 bases 30:8 brought 48:21
anybody 12:10 arguments 44:7 basic 3:14 bunch 8:21
19:8,8 apologize 40:4 49:13,22 52:17 basis 14:16 47:5
40:15 arrange 31:14 34:19,21 47:4 Buono's 26:6
28:7 appealed 10:23 53:25 32:1,13 58:4
14:24 asserted 33:11 beliefs 49:21 California 54:25
32:9 1:15 associated 53:10 25:20,23 26:20 Canada 52:22
applied 7:20 assume 12:11 28:19,20,25 Canadian 49:12
9:1,24 34:10,18,23 clearly 31:6,19 17:24 26:25 continues 42:3
14:21 35:4,9 36:5,24 36:17,20 46:17 27:8,12 28:6 45:4
18:22 37:5,22 38:2 cliff 22:24 42:22,23 43:22 continuing 44:5
20:9,10 39:23 40:3,5 climb 22:25 46:7 47:21,22 contrary 30:10
21:2,5 40:10,13,17,18 close 46:1 51:10,12 55:3 56:3
23:13 54:5,17,21 come 15:2,2,10 55:5,9,21 56:4 control 8:15
28:16,16 58:17 15:13 16:21,22 56:11,12,16,17 conveying 6:22
29:16 choice 49:21 17:4,8 28:1 57:4,23 58:4,8 convicted 50:25
35:19 55:5,5 56:14 30:10 44:20 58:11,13 correct 6:3 8:6
41:24 56:23 58:16 49:6 congressional 11:16 22:1
45:14 choices 50:2 comes 11:7 13:9 8:8 17:11 24:5,21,25
48:2,6,10 choose 44:15 commemorated Congress's 56:1 26:13 27:2
chooses 41:4 3:19 consequences 28:18 29:4,15
58:19,20 46:24 commemorati... 4:22,25 29:23,25 32:23
20:7 chosen 42:23 common 39:1,8 23:14 36:13 40:3 42:12
45:21 Christian 39:16 39:12 consideration 43:17 45:2
53:11 Christians 38:9 complaint 13:21 26:2 28:8,10 44:22
church 4:8,10 completely 14:9 consists 3:24 34:10 54:5
28:16 Circuit 9:18 55:14 56:10,18 constitutional 46:8,10
45:25 10:23 12:14,16 compliance 10:1 8:12 17:25 couple 19:16
12:16,18 14:1 10:6,7 11:15 27:13,20 28:3 30:7
18:20 19:9 43:24 35:13,16 53:5 8:3 31:10,13
27:15,24 47:9 comply 11:18 constitutionali... court 1:1,13 3:9
circumstance concede 21:1,4 40:11 9:15 10:10,11
46:13 circumstances conceded 48:11 contemplated 12:21,21 13:9
16:9 52:14 56:11 39:15,17 content 4:3 5:21 14:10,20,23,24
clause 3:10 5:19 condition 35:19 context 28:20 15:10 16:21,24
19:14,18 30:18 32:15,21 conduct 47:14 41:17 45:20 19:6,12 21:13
20:8 33:6,8 45:21 confused 24:15 46:13 49:25 25:5,9,18
22:1 48:19 conglomerate 50:5 51:2 27:17 28:1,15
23:10,16 clear 6:11 8:24 39:3 52:12,13,16 29:24 30:20,22
18:5 21:17 Congress 3:11 continue 17:11 31:3,6 32:19
45:21 cure 41:25 36:11 display 7:8,24 efforts 29:13
47:4 cures 17:25 desert 45:19 8:4,11,12 9:8 either 13:14
52:9 curious 4:13 54:25 10:5 11:14,15 14:5 18:9
54:7 designate 42:23 12:1,5,7,10 30:23
36:14 D 3:1 51:13 57:4 dispute 3:17 6:7 25:17 26:13,20
day 10:2,6 12:19 designating 33:1 dissociated 28:4,13,18
37:13 27:25 43:25 designation 5:4 distinction 31:2,17,21
de 27:1,9 28:25 5:7 6:9 33:11 16:13 46:11 32:8,17,24
7:20 38:25 39:2,15 46:3 9:15 10:10 34:17,19 35:3
11:6 12:10 39:16 40:1 desolate 22:24 11:24 12:21,21 35:8,23 36:1,8
15:8,10 Death 40:2,9 destroy 5:7 14:10 18:11 37:2,8,24 38:4
16:11 debating 26:15 destroyed 44:20 19:5 25:5 38:15,18 39:6
19:21 decide 15:20 determine 54:1 26:16 27:23 39:12,18 40:3
24:20 28:15 determined 29:24 30:22 40:10,15,19
30:3 decided 13:8 13:13 14:13 31:3,5 48:3 41:9 42:1,12
21:2,6 48:2,7 49:7 divesting 3:12 42:19 43:14
decides 56:25 dichotomy 14:5 docket 13:21 44:1 45:1,20
34:12 deciding 19:10 died 38:20 doing 3:18 6:10 45:24 48:8
35:6 28:2 difference 35:8 29:10 33:6 49:14 50:9,15
36:7 decision 10:8,23 40:6 36:9 51:2,10,19,23
10:24 12:19,19 different 6:4 donated 52:21 52:7 53:12
15:4 34:20 14:12 30:25 donation 24:4 54:10
39:3,3,7 declared 7:24,25 34:6 35:16,19 door 15:19 emblems 49:21
58:12 45:15,18,23 dotted 20:22 embodied 14:16
40:12 deep 3:20 47:7 49:18,21 doubt 41:15 16:2
defacement 49:24 50:3,24 Dr 4:9,11 Empire 52:23
36:12 51:25 53:7,23 drove 23:3 enacted 29:22
defect 18:1 56:9,10,21 duty 44:24 enacting 3:11
defendant 25:24 direct 25:19 D.C 1:9,17 46:6 enactment
48:17 defense 53:2 directing 15:9 47:20
denied 26:7 directions 23:6 E ended 10:4
50:4 denomination directly 19:12 E 2:1 3:1,1 enforce 11:2,4,8
53:13 51:6 directs 31:24 earlier 14:17 11:25 13:10,22
Department disagree 28:5 46:16 49:15 13:24 26:5,17
1:16 44:23 36:5,10 easy 23:2 24:10 41:12
56:25 depending discretion 15:18 effect 9:9,19 enforced 10:20
58:1 15:22 15:20 26:25 14:9 26:24
55:21 discriminatory effectuated 11:10 28:20
19:6 52:17,19 fewer 57:10 52:22,25 Ginsburg 3:22
29:10 exchange 43:4 fide 20:1 found 3:15 4:2,13 5:6,9,13
29:21,25 30:7 11:2 13:6,13 free 5:7 38:6,9 23:2 24:7
48:22 expires 19:15 14:14 15:12 40:21,23 41:3 27:14 28:5
14:2,6 express 27:18 52:11 front 29:16 49:3,15
57:14 expressed 50:3 finality 15:25 45:16 53:6 Ginsburg's
10:4,11 11:12 future 44:5,11 34:5 56:13
50:23 fact 4:25 5:10 25:25 27:15,18 G 3:1 giving 40:16
6:8 10:2 20:10 28:1,16,20 gains 57:20 glad 10:21
39:25 52:4 35:14 39:7 3:6 54:19 11:24 12:20
41:1 factors 36:2 47:5 48:9,9 General 1:16 13:11 16:9
51:14 facts 43:15 five-foot-tall 3:5,8,22 4:1,18 17:1 20:23
factual 3:23 35:21 57:5 4:24 5:9,15,18 21:14 24:8,20
fair 56:1 focus 19:19 7:16,22 8:6 39:7 46:15
family 49:20 forbid 50:12 13:4,14,23 goes 5:3 43:25
12:22 far-fetched foreign 5:10 16:12 17:9 going 8:21 12:18
23:25 47:22 37:20 38:1 18:18 19:3,23 14:25 15:4,21
7:8 21:5 31:8 32:1 51:15 52:19,21 22:13,19 23:1 23:7,17 29:22
32:15 33:14 forgot 40:4 23:16 24:5,16 32:2 34:13,14
33:6,8 favoring 31:8 form 33:16 24:19,21,25 34:25 35:6
48:19 50:1 formal 41:21 25:7 36:10 41:12,20 42:8
25:21 53:9 57:6 57:16 58:3 3:12 5:17,25
29:4 feel 38:5 39:20 fortiori 8:5 General's 15:3 6:2,18 7:4,11
49:4 fence 22:23 fought 38:8,13 getting 50:18 9:4,7 10:22
12:4,9 H 22:14 injunctions 10:3 14:24 16:1
13:2,24 half 39:4
20:5
21:8,16 happens 30:5
29:4
57:17
interest 31:23 issued 10:2,3,8
22:3 34:2 41:14 issues 9:2 13:3
32:14,14 hearing 10:11 48:17 53:2 44:12,13,19 45:14,18 47:4
34:3,11 held 18:17 35:10
57:1,4 48:20 55:13,15
36:15 incentive 17:18 55:18,23 56:2 J
37:9 historian 53:25
39:25
incorrect 19:3 interested 53:3 Jesus 38:20
41:22 historic 22:2 Indemnity 8:23 interference Jew 39:10
42:2,2 54:2 independently 21:21 Jewish 38:22
43:2,9 historical 53:14
17:14 Interior 1:4 39:9,20 50:7
54:1 44:15 36:20 44:23 51:16
historically indistinguisha... interlocutory Jews 52:25
46:2,18 54:16 20:5 15:12,24 judge 9:16 18:9
47:2 history 32:22
49:16 holder 55:18
51:3,22 53:18
9:1,5,6,6 30:24 14:14,16,24
52:8
homesteader 10:1,5,6,14,15 45:3 46:23,25 47:3
54:13 10:15,20,21,25 intervening 48:22 49:1
honor 4:11 11:2,4,5,5,7,12 47:19 52:11
12:4,6 38:11,12,24
13:6,9 involved 20:4 26:5,11
22:8
44:3 13:10 15:9,11 41:22 jurisdiction
32:22 52:21,25
involvement 8:21 36:15,18
34:20
42:9,10 53:20,21
19:1 Iraqi 53:1 37:6
43:2
45:4 57:2 hope 54:16 26:2,5,11,12 15:22 3:8,22 4:2,13
19:22 36:3 31:4,7,16,18 53:2 9:25 10:17,19
32:6 43:8,17 issue 3:13 5:19 11:5,9,11,17
16:12 Kagan 1:16 2:3 L 1:3 legitimate 16:8 Mall 45:16 46:2
18:4 2:8 3:5,6,8,22 land 5:1,2,2,3 47:16 man 54:10,12
4:1,18,24 5:9 6:23 7:2,3,21 letters 37:25 Management
5:15,18 6:3,20 12:10,11,13 let's 17:23 32:1336:18 54:15
20:8,15 7:6,11,16,22 15:15 20:14,24 50:7 52:19 mankind 38:21
21:1,4,7 8:6 9:25 11:9 20:25 23:22,23 level 22:21 31:4manner 26:17
11:16,23 12:14 24:12,14,24 limit 52:5 Marquette
23:1 13:5,14,23 29:6,12 30:15 limits 19:24 53:14,15
24:2 14:19 15:16 31:20,25 32:2 Lincoln 45:17 Martin 53:20
16:12 17:9 32:20 33:15 listed 26:7 master 31:4
25:4 18:18 19:3,23 34:2,6,11,20 litigant 8:24 matter 1:12 3:23
20:10,17,20 34:25 35:5 litigated 13:8 4:14 8:25
26:4,14 21:3,7,25 36:12,14,16,17 litigation 7:24 12:10 15:25
27:4,7 22:13,20 23:1 36:18 37:1,6 10:4 13:3,15 41:21 52:16
28:5,9 23:16 24:5,16 37:11 41:5,23 47:18,24 58:21
29:3 24:19,21,25 42:3 43:4,4,6 litigations 13:16
30:1 25:7 42:7,13 43:23 44:12,13 little 4:24 6:7 matters 52:13
49:3 53:20 45:5,10 48:11 8:18 22:24 mean 14:12
32:4 54:19,21 55:17 48:16 51:18,21 24:15 17:17 22:20
33:5 55:22 56:3,8 54:14,14,15 lives 55:1 30:24 31:15,16
34:4 56:22 57:8,13 56:17 local 58:7 32:6 37:1 40:6
57:16 58:3 landowner lone 4:14 51:15
Kagan's 36:10 34:13 long 50:22 meaning 3:20
37:5 keep 40:12 landowners longer 8:10 12:3means 24:4
38:2,12 KEN 1:3 20:13,14 57:2 meant 12:11
39:6 Kennedy 17:2 lands 33:19,21 look 6:11 8:18 31:1 55:6
40:4 46:15 33:23 41:13 members 40:1,8
kind 16:23 large 4:5 looked 8:22 49:24
41:2,19 17:15 24:7 larger 24:22 looking 26:23 memorial 3:15
36:3 54:7 Latin 9:8 18:16 Los 1:19 3:17,18,23 4:9
56:15,16 42:24 lot 37:6,6 4:10,15,19,23
45:2,6 King 4:11 53:20 Laughter 19:17 lots 22:21 51:25 5:8,11,14,21
46:15 King's 4:9 39:11 54:9 Luther 53:20 5:22,24 6:1,4,5
48:9 49:3 knew 14:25 56:5 law 8:19 9:8 6:5,6,9,10,14
50:6,13 knocking 15:18 17:23,25 26:9 M 10:5,7 22:17
51:7,14 know 4:7,19 37:10 maintain 41:6 23:5 24:1,9
52:2,7 9:22 13:4,19 lawfully 26:16 55:15,19 33:3,7,11
53:7 20:24 22:6,7 leap 39:14 maintained 35:20 38:24
22:15 23:8,22 leave 27:20 22:18 42:16,18 40:7 41:4 42:5
24:12 34:14 left 9:4 27:25 45:10 42:8,17,21,23
57:3 39:4 41:24 56:22 maintaining 42:25 44:14,22
50:16 51:11,15 legislation 5:20 33:15 45:17,19 46:3
54:8 57:16 7:13 8:8,9 maintains 44:10 49:12,17 50:8
Kozinski 27:18 24:2 25:25 41:22 51:18 53:12
making 16:13 54:24 55:4,6,8
56:2 moot 47:10,10 nine 9:10 options 3:15 46:8 50:1 51:5
47:12 48:1,1 Ninth 9:18 oral 1:12 2:2 3:6 54:13 55:20
48:10,13 10:23 12:14,15 25:15 parties 31:8
58:2,5 mooted 7:1,12 12:16,17 14:1 order 4:11 11:25 33:13
morning 17:22 14:3 16:6 12:17 15:14,20 partly 16:21
5:2 6:15 motion 13:22,24 25:5,6 27:15 32:2 51:21 13:8 30:10
36:12 26:5,6 27:24 47:9 58:1 34:11 46:23
51:4,4 Munsingwear 48:2,9,13 55:3ordered 13:6 47:16
58:9 47:1 non-Christians organization pass 27:20
25:9 28:3 novo 27:1,9 original 24:3 passed 8:8 10:12
47:9,25 myriad 52:15 28:25 originally 31:1 14:11
number 13:21 43:11 54:11 passes 25:24
52:9 N 29:18 48:18 outrageous 28:2
name 8:22 overtaken 21:12 people 21:24
4:2,5,9,10,22 O 2:1 3:1 54:14 26:8 38:7
54:8 6:6,9,15 30:5 obligation 13:17 35:6 36:7 44:8 perceive 50:1
46:3 49:17,19 46:1 owns 12:11 21:17 35:2
18:7 57:5,10 odd 37:20 38:5 permanent 13:5
naturally 20:6 40:24 P 15:11 18:12,13
47:10 48:1 offers 49:20 page 2:2 27:22 permanently
41:4 54:1 okay 34:18 35:2 18:14 permissible 4:12
need 9:10,14 47:18 53:21 26:10,18 permit 11:6,13
neutral 34:21 9:8 14:12,15 Park 5:5 36:19 29:9
new 10:15 11:4 Operation 53:1 32:24,25 44:12 11:15 18:15
26:1,3,12 35:6 opportunity 21:22 29:5 person 14:15
57:12 prior 6:25 7:1,3 24:1 45:12
36:22 21:9 32:22 provisions 36:13 37:9 47:22
2:4,9 3:7 29:14 58:14 private 5:2,3,6 6:17 7:20 quote 57:5
Post 40:2,9 20:12,13,14,21 20:25 51:18
42:22 45:25 32:20,20 33:25 put 5:21 6:2 raised 9:2,3 13:7
20:23 41:21,25 36:6,12 44:7,8 23:6,17,20,24
50:22
54:3 precluded 13:1 probably 54:6 35:6 37:19 ranches 30:16
37:19,23 29:6 procedurally 52:20 54:7,11 44:21
39:24,25 presence 16:10 8:18 18:5 54:12 56:20 reads 39:25
presented 6:21 proceedings putting 21:23,24
43:15 9:10 24:18 49:21 48:6
25:18 preserve 20:12 prohibiting 30:2 Q really 7:2 14:22
15:7,13 34:5 35:1,20 proper 20:2 12:25 13:7,18 reargue 49:6
17:17 36:16 37:12 32:14 14:1,20 15:1 reason 32:19
28:5 58:9,13,14,15 properly 52:13 15:20 16:14,14 39:19 46:19
39:7 preserve's 23:24 property 3:13
48:9 49:1
40:6
44:18 presume 47:22 8:14 12:4,6 18:22,23 19:11 29:1 30:8
48:24 presumes 44:8 19:7,25 20:4,5 19:11,19 21:12 46:21
pretty 8:19 20:7 21:22,22 21:18 23:10,12 rebuild 44:23
48:18 prevent 6:10,13 30:4 33:15,25 26:21 27:21 23:11 54:19
pre-enforcem... 48:17 49:16 39:24 40:11,14 10:22 46:20
28:11 53:21 18:25 51:8,12 48:18 49:7,15 24:4
32:10 principal 44:7 prosecutor 52:9,13,18 record 33:4
45:5 principles 28:23 41:11 53:5,8 57:15 recuperate 55:1
50:11 required 22:22 45:16 49:10,12 Scalia 6:20 7:10 52:11 56:10
19:8,8,9 16:19 32:22 risk 37:15 38:23 39:6,14 shack 22:7
42:14 51:3 road 23:6,7 45:6 50:6,13 sham 43:11
Respondent ROBERTS 3:3 51:20 52:2,7 side 10:25
21:23,24 25:16 20:8 21:20 43:17 45:15 23:25 24:7,14
23:21 respondents 22:4 23:10 scenarios 35:9 24:22,23 38:10
39:22 6:12 10:9,13 25:13 26:22 sea 49:23 signage 25:2
10:19 11:24 27:4,7 28:9,14 seat 45:25 46:2 significance
51:5,6 12:16,20 14:2 34:10,18,23 second 3:21 7:25 53:23
56:25 35:4 36:5,24 18:6 28:16 significant
resting 19:21 39:23 40:5,13 Secretary 1:3 41:15 46:4,7
restore 55:1 58:17 section 3:11 signifies 38:20
33:12 return 47:17 round 27:18 secular 20:3 23:6,12,14,17
45:3,11 55:13 Sacrifice 49:12 seen 5:25 55:23
revive 13:12 51:23 52:3,3 sensible 3:11 31:12 35:1,14
riddled 20:12 11:13 13:9 13:16 14:2,6 55:2
43:4 start 32:13 strong 17:18 57:1,19 47:21 49:3,25
started 17:22 structure 40:8 taken 12:3 14:20 51:2 52:2,14
41:2 States 1:1,13 substitute 5:14 37:11 46:13 57:23
33:20 statue 4:4 12:1,2 superintendent 41:17 43:19 16:23,25 20:6
statues 38:7 23:3,24 25:1 50:13,17 27:14 28:10
16:12 status 5:25 6:2,6 5:5 6:18 8:15 technical 9:21 42:15 56:20
statute 6:11 9:13 suppose 14:4,6 technically 58:4
25:4 9:19 10:12 37:5 43:2 47:10 48:1 three 23:3
32:12,18 11:18 15:23 50:18 telling 23:25 tie 46:1
18:25 19:7 Supreme 1:1,13 tells 40:7 tied 46:10
36:2 21:9,13 23:15 sure 8:22 33:12 ten 56:24 time 19:15 21:2
34:2 40:22 41:12,13 suspect 22:13 58:17 50:19
statutes 37:13 30:12 33:7 33:17 47:24 57:20
stays 9:2 39:13,22 46:8 6:10 7:22 8:7 told 15:11 36:6
31:5 steps 29:8,18 49:23 50:3,21 16:19 17:10,12 tombstone
13:7 Stevens 20:15 52:5,15,16 21:11,25 22:1 tombstones
14:8 20:18 21:1,4,7 synagogue 4:9 22:22 23:1,16 49:22,23
35:18,24 44:17 24:10 25:2,9 tomorrow 20:23
15:8 45:2,13,22 T 29:3 31:2,17 56:23
53:7 55:12,17 T 2:1,1 32:9 35:23 total 20:16,19
55:20,25 56:4 take 5:10 6:8,16 36:8,21 37:8 20:22
47:5 56:7,19 57:3 15:14,14 16:24 37:12 38:1,4 totality 33:10
49:7 57:11,15,22,24 18:5 26:10 39:14,16,24 totally 30:21
50:4 stipulate 31:13 40:23,25 41:16 41:14 42:6,6 traditional
31:3 understood 55:19 56:13,23 55:10,19,23,24 wrong 15:10,15
7:2,13 8:1 United 1:1,13 57:17,17,19,20 57:2,4,18 58:5 39:24
10:12 46:25 47:21 VFW's 21:19 58:9,14,14,15 wrote 27:18
12:2,2 52:24 53:3 37:14 56:14,23 warning 22:12
15:1,23 unlawful 47:14view 13:1 27:19 wars 5:10 38:1 X
18:9 unnatural 58:8views 13:2 40:1,2,9 43:4 x 1:2,8
19:12,25 unquestioned violate 35:10 43:10,12 51:9
27:19 11:1 violated 21:5 51:11,15 Y
31:22 unreasonable 26:24 32:15 Washington 1:9 yards 23:8
41:21 12:8 violates 18:10 1:17 45:17,25 years 3:18 48:12
use 31:24 34:7 18:12,19,25 46:6 48:14,24 56:24
35:20 users 23:25 violating 9:9,11 13:21 19:9 $
31:20 U.S 34:6 35:12violation 7:8 8:2 47:6,12 48:10
21:2,9 27:13 way 5:4 6:18 0
v 1:6 3:4 35:11 30:17 32:3,6 16:20,22 19:24
16:18 19:11 voluntary 47:13 1:10 11:06 58:20
Valley 40:2,9 went 10:9,13 1369 6:12,14
20:11 variety 50:2 want 11:8 17:19 west 53:17 1934 40:1
26:7 various 22:2 18:4 22:7 We're 32:1
35:9 53:16 23:11 42:13 white 35:21 57:6 2
48:8,12 veterans 3:20 46:15,17 49:6 willing 24:23 2 54:18
51:4 5:10,21,22 49:8 57:22 win 28:25 2002 56:5
23:21 29:7 won 13:8 24 26:11
7:25 8:1,4 51:17 54:24 22:17 23:5,25 World 33:4 38:8 25 2:6
55:5 55:7 24:9 33:4 52:23 54:24,25 2884 40:2,9
VFW 5:20,22 37:20 38:8,13 wouldn't 5:23
17:17 37:21 38:5 42:17,17 50:7 40:23 39 49:21
41:15 44:15 52:23 54:24,25 37:3 4
33:1 46:8
56:24
2:9
1:10
3:18
3:12 27:20
