IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MANJO NIJHAWAN, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-495
ERIC H. HOLDER, JR., :
ATTORNEY GENERAL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, April 27, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
THOMAS E. MOSELEY, ESQ., Newark, N.J.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THOMAS E. MOSELEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 23
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS E. MOSELEY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 49
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Nijhawan v. Holder.
Mr. Moseley.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS E. MOSELEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MOSELEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
At issue in this case is an aggravated
felony definition, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(43)(M)(i), one that
serves both as a ground of deportation and as an
integral part of a Federal criminal statute.
For the Court's convenient reference,
because I suspect we will return to this and the other
definitions, I would refer the Court to the statutory
appendix in the government's brief: 3a gives (M)(i); 6a
gives the conviction requirement; and 7a to 8a gives the
underlying criminal statute in which this aggravated
felony definition forms an integral part.
Now, Congress has required -- for
deportation, Congress has required conviction of this
defined offense, in a definition that says absolutely
nothing about the word "tether" utilized by the Third
Circuit below, and the definition begins with a
restrictive clause, "that," to require conviction of
both the fraud and deceit element and also the loss
amount as an integral part of this definition.
Since Congress required conviction, the
time-honored categorical approach really should be the
governing standard, and I submit that there's nothing in
the plain language of the statute, the underlying
statute enacted by Congress, to oust that time-honored
approach, which I submit is perhaps on a par as being
presumptively applicable, similarly to the -- to the
stay standards that this Court discussed very recently
in the Nken case.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Another --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under the time-honored --
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, please.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under the time-honored
approach, if the jury verdict necessarily -- or not
necessarily, but did in fact refer to the amount
involved and it was over $10,000, would that be part of
the time-honored approach and then the statute would be
fulfilled?
MR. MOSELEY: I -- under those
circumstances, Justice Kennedy, yes. But here the jury
was specifically instructed that they did not have to
make any finding with respect to loss in this case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in that connection,
at some point in the argument -- and you may be a little
early because you're talking about the statute -- I'd
like to know either anecdotally from your experience or
-- or because it's written somewhere, how often do
juries give special verdicts? It actually applies in
the second case we're to hear as well. And has that
changed in the light of -- of Apprendi? In -- in my
experience, we just didn't know many of the features of
the crime from -- from the jury verdict, and I just
would like to know if that's changed in this day and
age.
MR. MOSELEY: Well, I -- I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you may reach that
after you've talked about the statute.
MR. MOSELEY: Yes, but let me -- certainly
among the State statutes that we cite, the State
statutes where it's clear that a loss amount is an
element, the jury is going to be instructed they have to
return that, and they do. The -- the special verdict
opportunity here is in effect, I would submit, a kind of
lifeline, if you will, that we're giving to the
government in these -- in these more general fraud
statutes, where the government has that -- certainly has
that opportunity or that option to do. But there
certainly have been -- and I know we cite them in our
brief -- cases --
JUSTICE ALITO: And if you -- if you do
extend that lifeline to the government, aren't you
conceding that the amount of the loss is not an element
of the offense, and aren't you conceding that it is not
necessary for the loss amount to be an element of the
offense?
MR. MOSELEY: No, Justice Alito. What I am
saying is that this statute -- and again, (M)(i) was
enacted as part of a number of criminal statutes --
excuse me -- as a number of provisions that were
addressed to white collar offenses, of which this is
just one, and it also encompasses the State -- it also
encompasses the State statutes where this clearly is --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me give you a
concrete example. Let's say it's a Federal mail fraud
case. Let's say there are two Federal mail fraud cases,
and you don't have to prove the amount of loss in order
to convict under the mail fraud statute. In the first
case, after the jury returns a guilty verdict they also
return -- or together with that they answer a special
interrogatory and they say the loss exceeded $10,000.
In the second case, the defendant pleads guilty and
admits during the plea colloquy that the amount is more
than $10,000. Would there be a problem in those cases?
MR. MOSELEY: In those cases, no. In those
cases, that would have satisfied the traditional
categorical approach.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In this --
JUSTICE ALITO: And then --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In this case, how many of
the defendants were alien? You're -- the jury is given
a charge that covers all of the defendants. They're all
charged with the same crime. How many of them were
aliens?
MR. MOSELEY: I believe two in addition to
Mr. Nijhawan, Justice Ginsburg. I believe two or three
more were. This case -- this case involved roughly 15
defendants. There are only five who went to trial. The
number who -- the number who are aliens, in addition to
Mr. Nijhawan, I believe were two.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then the judge wouldn't
distinguish -- it would not be relevant for the -- for
the defendants who were not aliens because it would have
no consequences for them. So why should the judge --
even if the question could be asked, why should the
judge -- the judge takes a position: It's not an
element of the crime. Therefore, I'm not going to
charge it, and I'm not going to confuse the jury by
saying as to the defendants who are aliens, you have to
find the amount.
MR. MOSELEY: Well, under -- under those --
under those circumstances, Justice Ginsburg, Mr.
Nijhawan actually himself had asked for a charge with --
with respect to loss. I don't think -- I don't think
there's an issue of jury confusion here, and indeed
under -- under -- ironically under this Court's -- well,
this would have been a situation in which a request was
-- could have been made. I don't think there would have
been -- there certainly wouldn't have been jury
confusion to have requested it here.
But I think you have to put this in -- in
the larger picture of a statute of a set of aggravated
felony definitions that were enacted.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But before you go on to
that, we're talking about (M)(i). It's coupled with
another provision that's an offense that is described in
section 21 -- 7201 of Title 26 -- that's tax evasion --
in which the revenue loss to the government exceeds
10,000. So it's the same "in which" construction, and
there's no requirement -- to convict someone of tax
evasion, the jury does not have to find the deficiency.
MR. MOSELEY: Well, actually, Justice
Ginsburg, under this Court's decision in Boulware, a
deficiency is indeed a necessary element of that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: A deficiency, but not the
amount of the deficiency.
MR. MOSELEY: But -- no. A -- a deficiency
is a necessary element of that offense. That's --
that's where, for example, the Babaisakov decision got
that point flatly wrong. And this is, I think, the
classic --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But is the amount --
there's a deficiency. The jury has to find in order to
find tax evasion there is a deficiency. Does it have to
find that the revenue loss to the government exceeds
$10,000?
MR. MOSELEY: No, it doesn't have to find
that, but it may. And this is a classic example of the
application of the modified categorical approach, where
this statute sweeps broadly to include both loss amounts
or, in this case, revenue loss amounts that would exceed
$10,000 and those that would be less than $10,000. Most
of these cases, most of the tax cases, as the
government's own materials that we cite indicate, are
resolved by guilty pleas with respect to where those
amounts are designated. And I think it's important here
to realize that by pairing these two statutes, by
pairing these two provisions, (M)(i) and (M)(ii),
Congress in effect I submit sent the signal with that
language in (M)(ii) that we're talking about the kind --
we're talking about the application of the modified
categorical --
JUSTICE ALITO: What is the -- What is the
difference between a defendant's saying during a guilty
plea colloquy, the loss was -- I admit the loss was more
than $10,000; and the defendant's agreeing for
sentencing purposes that the loss was more than $10,000?
MR. MOSELEY: Because, Justice Alito, in the
sentencing context we're truly dealing with a
post-verdict situation where the government in terms of
having to prove loss is up against a far lesser amount
-- a far more liberal standard, a preponderance of the
evidence standard. And the defendant under those
circumstances --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, if he's admitting it,
what does the standard of the evidence matter?
MR. MOSELEY: He's admitting it here,
Justice Souter, under these circumstances. He's
admitting it here only in the context of a resolution of
the sentencing issue. If you go back to the --
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, he's not saying, I
admit to a degree of preponderance of the evidence that
it was over 10,000. He's saying, period, over 10,000.
The burden of proof, the standard of proof doesn't
matter.
MR. MOSELEY: No, but he's -- but he's doing
this in the context of resolving, of resolving a
disputed issue with respect to --
JUSTICE SOUTER: And he definitively
resolves it by admission.
MR. MOSELEY: But he does so certainly in
the context of reserving, of reserving his right to
contest that and to make the arguments that we're making
here.
JUSTICE SOUTER: No, I understand the facts
of this case. I was commenting on your answer to
Justice Alito's question, and it would seem to me that
the answer to the question is there is no difference.
MR. MOSELEY: No, I submit -- I submit that
there -- there really is a -- a profound difference
under the circumstances of someone being in a situation
before, before conviction, and then someone being in a
postconviction situation. And then I think we should
come back in terms -- we should come back to the
underlying, to the underlying requirement that the
person had been -- the person under the statute be
convicted of the loss.
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right, that really gets
to the question that I was going to ask, and that is, I
don't see how the modified categorical approach is
something that you could admit would be sufficient
because, as I understand your argument -- and it is in
part an argument based on sort of standard grammatical
construction -- you're saying that in the definition
"The term 'aggravated felony' means an offense that" --
and you emphasize the "that," the restrictive nature of
the "that" clause -- "involves fraud or deceit in which
the loss exceeds $10,000."
if I understand your restrictive clause argument,
the definition of the offense has got to include the
element of exceeding $10,000 or it does not satisfy
your, the -- it does not satisfy the standard that you
were arguing for based on the restrictive clause. So it
seems to me that you've got to go the whole hog or you
get nothing, and the whole hog is that it's got to be an
element of the offense that the loss exceed $10,000. Am
I wrong?
MR. MOSELEY: I don't think necessarily.
Well, under these circumstances, Justice Souter, what I
would say is that there may be statutes, there may be
statutes in which, there are statutes, there are State
statutes, where you have a range of conduct that may
include $10,000, may not include $10,000, and the
modified categorical approach would apply under those.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, how about this one.
You were arguing based on this statute and you make an
argument based on the restrictive nature of a "that"
modifying clause, and if you're going to make the
restrictive clause argument, it seems to me you've got
to go the whole hog and say the element of the offense
has got to include the loss in excess of $10,000.
MR. MOSELEY: Certainly if it does, then
under the statutes involved here we would prevail.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, yeah, you would
prevail, but you would prevail, it seems to me, at the
expense of this objection, and the government makes it.
There are very, very few fraud and deceit statutes that
define the offense by reference to a loss in excess of
$10,000. My recollection from the government's brief is
that they come up with three.
The fact is also that this provision, the
$10,000 figure, was placed into the statute at a time
when Congress was trying to expand the category of
deportable, removable offenses, and it would be passing
strange in that context to define the offense by
reference to a $10,000 figure as an element of the
offense which would cut it down, which would cut the
compass of the statute down to three offenses. What is
your response to that?
MR. MOSELEY: Well, I think the government
vastly understates the statutory provisions that were
involved here. Even if you look at the State statutes,
a majority of the State statutes, as I think we make
clear in our reply brief, a majority of States have
statutes, generally the theft by deception statutes and
others which have loss thresholds that will get you over
--
JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, once you get into the
State statutes you get into the further problem of an
utter and I would suppose unjust patchwork of statutory
reference to which this would apply. If you -- if you
steal the $11,000 in State A, you get booted out of the
country. If you steal it across the State line in State
B, you stay home. I mean, I can't imagine that Congress
would have enacted that kind of scheme.
MR. MOSELEY: But what Congress has done
here is to provide for a uniform test, in effect.
JUSTICE SOUTER: A uniform test that
produces both unjust results and I would suppose
strangely unsatisfying results to a Congress that wanted
to expand the concept of deportable offense.
MR. MOSELEY: But what -- but what -- if I
can just go back for a moment, Justice Souter, to the
original premise that it under all circumstances has to
be an element. There are certainly statutes, even
Federal statutes, for example, the theft from Federal --
federally funded programs, which give specific loss
amounts of 5,000 or more, which would -- which -- excuse
me.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the problem is that
there's no pattern to it, The point that Justice Souter
made. If we take your position that there are a number
of statutes that mention amount, some as an element,
some by this, there seems to be no rhyme or reason to
when the amount is there and when it isn't, and then you
have these unequal results within the Federal system and
in the States, so when you think -- would it make any
sense for Congress to have drawn the line that way if
the State happens to make -- to have the "in which" or
if it just has fraud and deceit with no amount?
MR. MOSELEY: What -- Justice Ginsburg, I
think what Congress did here was to create a uniform
test, a uniform test in the sense you look to see if --
if someone has been convicted of both these
requirements, fraud or deceit or the loss. That
certainly produces far more uniformity than had --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's treating people
who do the identical thing differently.
MR. MOSELEY: But Congress chose under these
circumstances, Congress chose under these circumstances
to -- swept broadly to, swept broadly to State statutes
in addition, in addition, in addition to, in addition to
encompassing the Federal statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what you're saying is
you're not denying that people who commit the identical
theft or deceit or fraud will be treated differently
depending on whether the statute under which they're
convicted has this "in which" clause?
MR. MOSELEY: What I believe, what I believe
that I am conceding is that it will determine -- as with
any of the criminal cases that lead to deportation, it
will determine -- it will be determined on the basis of
how the prosecution chooses -- excuse me -- chooses to
charge.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Moseley --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Moseley, can I get
your help on a question I really have difficulty with.
It seems to me as I read the text, it is easy to read it
in one of two ways: It involves fraud or deceit in
which the loss to the victim in fact exceeded $10,000.
In that case you would lose. Or it could be read to say
involves fraud or deceit in which an element of the
crime is that the victim or victims exceeded a loss of
$10,000. You would lose under that also because it is
not an element of the crime.
So you are relying on a modified approach,
and under your modified approach what does the statute
say?
MR. MOSELEY: The -- the statute -- the
statute says that someone has to be convicted of -- of
both these aspects, both of --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the statute doesn't
say anything about conviction.
MR. MOSELEY: If, Justice Stevens, if you
read it in conjunction with the conviction
requirement -- in other words, to -- to be deportable,
to be deportable, that's in -- in 6a. Someone who has
been convicted of an aggravated felony is deportable;
and also someone who has been convicted of an aggravated
felony is subject to, under -- under --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- I don't
understand how you squeeze your -- your modified
categorical approach, which seems to be a deus ex
machina which is intended to blunt the government's
argument that very few statutes would be covered by
this. I don't see how you get that out of the word
"convicted."
Are you convicted of an offense involving
more than $10,000 if in a separate interrogatory the
jury, though it has no obligation in order to find you
guilty to say how much you stole, in an interrogatory
the jury says, oh, yes, the amount was more than
$10,000? Does that cause you to have been convicted of
that? You are convicted of what you are charged with.
You are convicted of the elements of the offense, not --
not of whatever, whatever the judge chooses to allow the
jury to be questioned about.
MR. MOSELEY: I think under those
circumstances, though, particularly if you look at the
statutes which make gradations of sentencing on the
basis of loss amounts, you clearly would be convicted of
that. It is -- because that's a necessary element
that's going to -- that's a necessary fact that's going
to have to be found to put you in a particular
sentencing range. So you -- so you definitely would be
-- you would be under those circumstances convicted of
that amount.
But I think it's important to -- to
recognize what -- that Congress -- that Congress in
enacting the statute and in predicating removal upon
conviction used language that sharply distinguishes --
that is sharply distinguished from the position that the
government advocates here that loss should be something
to be determined in separate -- in -- in separate
removal proceedings.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we go back to my
question, which I don't think you've fully answered?
And that's the tax evasion situation. For any tax -- a
person who is charged with tax evasion who goes to trial
and is convicted, that person would not be deportable,
as I understand it under your reading, because the jury
is not asked to determine the amount of the deficiency.
MR. MOSELEY: Well, the jury -- under those
circumstances, it will depend upon how the government
chooses, Justice Ginsburg, to prosecute the case. And
if the government chooses to prosecute the case by
seeking a determination of the deficiency amount in a
jury charge, then -- then, yes -- then, yes, indeed,
they would. But again, the vast majority of these cases
are resolved.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I know. You told me that
most of them admit it at the plea stage. But going to
trial, these are parallel provisions, and it seems to me
they are meant to operate the same way.
MR. MOSELEY: Well, they -- they are -- they
are meant to operate the same way. But I think that
what we have here is a situation where the fact that
deficiency is a requirement and that deficiency in most
cases will be established by a plea, and that this is a
statute that sweeps broadly; that this is a statute that
sweeps -- excuse me -- sweeps broadly to encompass both
a loss in excess of 10,000 -- a deficiency in excess of
$10,000 or a deficiency under $10,000.
JUSTICE ALITO: Did you have any authority
for the -- the idea that a trial judge in a criminal
case should ask the jury to answer a special
interrogatory regarding a question that has no bearing
on the conviction, but may have a bearing on the future
immigration status of the defendant, which is what
you're suggesting should be done in these tax cases?
MR. MOSELEY: What -- what I am suggesting
in the tax case is that it would be perfectly
appropriate for the government to seek such a special
interrogatory if they wish to establish the tax loss,
which is an element of the -- which is a necessary
component of the offense, if they wanted to establish it
-- if they wanted to establish it for -- for purposes --
for whatever purpose they wanted to establish it.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I can see that if
there are multiple defendants in the case, some of the
defendants might say that this is unnecessary, it's
inflammatory.
MR. MOSELEY: That's -- that's -- that --
again, that is going to depend on -- that's going to
depend upon how the government chooses to -- to
prosecute under these particular --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But all that just
underscores the fact that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- your earlier -- your
earlier assertion that it was necessary to -- that --
that it would be necessary to get that -- that amount
specified for sentencing purposes is simply not true. I
mean, we didn't -- we didn't hold that the guidelines
are mandatory, and you -- that you need a -- a jury
determination. We've said they are discretionary.
MR. MOSELEY: No, I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So if you don't have a jury
determination, you can still sentence on the basis of
the amount taken, even though that was not found by the
jury.
MR. MOSELEY: I -- I understand. But my --
my point, Justice Scalia, on this one is that -- on
(M)(ii) is that it is -- it is a statute in which -- in
which loss can or is required to be shown, some
deficiency is required to be shown, and this may -- and
this may well be done by the modified -- the modified
categorical approach, particularly in -- in --
particularly in situations in which, as in most cases,
it's resolved by a plea.
Now, if -- if -- but -- and also, this
statute was enacted against the backdrop of -- of the
categorical approach, and the act was amended -- has
been amended roughly four times during this period with
no indication that Congress certainly intended to
jettison this. And I think it's also important here to
note the structure of the act in terms of how Congress
sharply distinguished between what would happen with
conviction and -- and what would happen with sentence.
They did enact specific provisions,
101(a)(43), subpart (F) at 2a of the statutory appendix
and (G) at 2a of the statutory appendix, which talk
about -- which -- which talk about sentencing and make
that sharp distinction.
But I think we should not also lose sight of
the overarching fact here that this provision is an
integral part of a Federal criminal statute, 1326(b), so
that any ambiguity in the -- so that an ambiguity in the
construction and application of this statute should as
-- similarly to -- to what this Court held in Leocal,
should be resolved in favor of the -- in favor of the
alien, because it's the classic multiple or dual use
statute that has both civil and criminal applications,
and very severe criminal applications as well.
I see I have 5 minutes. If there are no
further questions, I would like to reserve the time for
rebuttal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I hope in rebuttal you'll
address the argument about deferring to the agency's
finding about what it means. We usually do that.
MR. MOSELEY: The -- I will -- I will --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can save it for
rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Gannon.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CURTIS E. GANNON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. GANNON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Petitioner's reading of subparagraph (M)(i)
implausibly excludes the mainstays of Federal fraud
prosecutions and applies at best to a tiny handful of
outlying offenses: Thefts of major works of art,
extreme cases of government contract fraud, and some
frauds obtaining confidential phone records and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, except -- except for
his modified hangout. His modified -- his modified
categorical does -- does expand; doesn't it?
MR. GANNON: Well, I -- I think, Justice
Scalia, that he does offer this -- this variation on a
so-called modified categorical approach by saying that
we could use extraneous facts in guilty pleas in order
to satisfy the categorical approach. But we think that
that doesn't work for both practical reasons and for the
types of reasons that -- that several of the questions
raised in the first half of the argument --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And also interrogatories to
the jury.
MR. GANNON: He does seem to contemplate
that interrogatories for the jury might also achieve the
same purpose. But as Justice Alito was pointing out,
there -- there is little reason to believe that a judge
is going to permit such extraneous questions to be put
to a jury that are -- that are not necessary for the
criminal proceeding that is actually being held at that
point. It's unlikely that the government wants to make
the entire -- wants to imply that the conviction needs
to turn on that.
And obviously, both with the -- the special
interrogatories and the guilty pleas, there are
practical problems, because this could only apply
prospectively, even though Congress's definition of
aggravated felonies is intended to apply to convictions
that predated the enactment of IIRIRA. It -- I just
mean that it would not be until we knew that this was
the rule, that we could implement such -- such a rule.
And it's not clear why any alien who would be contesting
his removability in the civil removal proceedings would
concede in the -- in a guilty plea or to a fact that is
extraneous to that conviction that would ultimately --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this -- but this
defendant did ask, didn't -- he asked the judge.
MR. GANNON: Well, he did not ask the judge
for a finding of loss. He -- he asked for an
instruction -- for a special interrogatory as to "the
amount of money my client is responsible for." That's
on page 14a of his opening brief. And that's not the
relevant question for purposes of the loss threshold in
subparagraph (M)(i), which is actually about the -- the
loss to the victims from the offense involving fraud or
deceit, not how much any individual defendant might have
been responsible for. And even now --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but then you
just -- you, the government, says -- you know, you'll
have a little debate about what the special
interrogatory, how it is phrased, and your objection
there could be dealt with on -- during that negotiation.
MR. GANNON: Well, and at that point he --
he -- we -- we presumably wouldn't want to have to prove
up a loss at that point that's irrelevant for purposes
of the criminal guilt proceeding, although it may well
become relevant for the sentencing proceeding, as it did
become relevant here, and there was a sentencing
stipulation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and why would you
be reluctant to do that? Would you just spell that out
a little bit?
MR. GANNON: Well, I -- I think that it
could confuse the jury. Even if it were clear that it
had nothing to do with a determination of guilt, that
would be a particularly odd sort of bifurcation to
thrust upon the original criminal proceeding, to require
the jury to make findings about facts that are truly
extraneous to the purposes of the criminal proceeding
that is being held there, and for -- at least for guilt
purposes, there is no reason for the jury to have to
find that.
And as -- as the questions before were
making clear, the reason this Court has applied the
modified categorical approach is to determine what is
necessary for the underlying conviction. That's why
it's tied to an investigation into what really were the
elements of the underlying offense. And interrogatories
about facts that were not, in fact, necessary for the
conviction or -- or extraneous facts that are introduced
into guilty pleas do not change the fact that that
particular attribute was not necessary for the
conviction.
And so, we think that it makes sense, in
context of the other definitions in paragraph 43 of the
definition of aggravated felonies, where it is
indisputable that there are multiple provisions that
include both an element that needs to be evaluated as an
element of the offense and some other limiting factor
that need not be an element of the offense; that it
makes sense to construe the loss threshold in
subparagraph (M)(i) as something that need not be an
element, because the consequences of Petitioner's
approach would be to read out virtually all Federal
fraud prosecutions, including such mainstays as mail
fraud, wire fraud, conspiracy to defraud the government,
bank fraud, the offenses that were at issue here.
And he does offer a patchwork of some State
offenses that could be satisfied. But even there,
there -- there's not any particular consistency to it.
He invokes the Model Penal Code, which has a gradation
scheme for theft by deception offenses. And although
the BIA has -- has acknowledged that theft by deception
offenses may in certain circumstances constitute fraud
offenses, the Model Penal Code does not in the next
chapter dealing with forgery and fraudulent practices
have a consistent gradation scheme.
So even in the States that Petitioner cites
in his reply brief, Delaware doesn't have monetary
thresholds for insurance fraud, even though it does for
health care fraud; and New Jersey doesn't have monetary
thresholds for credit card fraud or payment card fraud,
and so a million-dollar fraud would not be -- would not
be treated consistently, depending upon which State it
was committed in and even which type of fraud it was in
an individual State, if the State --
JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask you this, does
this -- which is not exactly on point to the issue here,
but does the government have a theory about how the loss
is measured for purposes of this statute? Under the
sentencing guidelines, the loss was a very complicated
calculation, lots of rules about relevant conduct and
lots of cases and different ways of proving loss, and
here we just have the statute.
MR. GANNON: Yes, we think that it is not
necessarily the same as the loss determination that
would be made for sentencing. And so, the board has
made it very clear that even though a restitution order,
for example, can be sufficient evidence of loss to the
victim, that it needs to be assessed with an eye to
exactly what losses were determined in the underlying
restitution order and with regard to the burden of proof
there. And so --
JUSTICE ALITO: What if you have somebody
who participates in a -- in a scheme involving
$100 million, the total loss is $100 million, but this
person had no way of reasonably anticipating that this
would be the -- the total amount of the loss, this was a
minor participant, and -- where would the -- how would
that come out?
MR. GANNON: Well, I think that the text of
the statute here in subparagraph (M)(i) talks about an
offense that involves fraud or deceit in which the loss
to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000. And so, we
think that the loss threshold is tied to the offense
that involves fraud or deceit, not to the individual
defendant's role.
If he's convicted of a $100 million fraud or
in this case what may well have been a $683 million
fraud, he is -- that -- that is the offense of which he
was convicted, and it is an offense in which the loss to
the victims exceeded $10,000. And so we think --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does the judge, when he
arrives at the restitution amount, have discretion to
say, as to this particular defendant, he was just an
accountant with the company that was committing the
fraud, he didn't put anything into his own pocket except
the salary they paid him, so I'm going to exclude him
from the restitution order?
MR. GANNON: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, in
general the -- the judge does have discretion to -- to
adjust aspects of the restitution order on the basis of
the facts of the underlying offense. And that's --
that's one of the reasons why I think the board has been
sensitive to the idea that the restitution order does
not necessarily determine what the amount of loss is
going to be for purposes of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you wouldn't allow
that exclusion to have any effect on deportation, would
you?
MR. GANNON: It would depend upon the facts
of the underlying case. If the underlying fraud was one
in which the victims lost nor than $10,000 and we could
prove that by clear and convincing evidence in the
removal proceeding, then -- then we think that we would
not be bound by the judge's discretionary refusal to
impose a restitution requirement on the particular
defendant.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So in -- in my very
hypothetical --
MR. GANNON: Depending upon the facts of the
case, yes, Justice Ginsburg, in your hypothetical if we
can prove by clear and convincing evidence that the
amount of loss associated with a fraud offense was more
than $10,000, we think that would satisfy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even -- even though this
defendant did not pocket any gain?
MR. GANNON: Yes. Yes, Justice Ginsburg.
It's not a pecuniary gain threshold. It's a loss to the
victim threshold. And -- and although the judge may
well take that into account for purposes of restitution,
it doesn't change the metric that Congress chose to
determine which types of frauds are serious enough to be
considered aggravated felonies.
In 1994, they -- they picked a threshold of
$200,000. In 1996, they dropped that to 5 percent of
that value, to $10,000. I think Congress's judgment
here is that if the fraud is so severe that it --
that -- that somebody -- that the victims lost $10,000,
then -- then that is a qualifying offense for purposes
of subparagraph (M)(i), even if the original criminal
sentencing judge, on the basis of all sorts of factors
associated with the case and under the restitution
standards, decided that the defendant was not
necessarily liable to pay restitution in that amount.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the
defendant's argument that at least as far as his
admission for sentencing purposes, he did that only
because otherwise the government wouldn't ask for a
downward departure?
MR. GANNON: Well, I -- I think that we are
not taking the position that the -- the stipulation for
sentencing purposes, which was pursuant to (6)(B)of the
guidelines and was for stipulation purposes -- we're not
arguing that that is -- is dispositive in the -- in the
civil removal proceeding. We're arguing that it's
persuasive evidence of the amount of loss here.
And so, he's -- he is certainly able to say
before the board or before the immigration judge that --
that for some reason the amount that he admitted to
isn't really the -- the actual amount of loss associated
with the case. That's not what he has done here. He
has -- he has consistently tried to establish that --
that this -- these -- this gargantuan loss amount was --
was not one that was found by the jury, not that it was
not in fact the loss that actually accrued in
association with the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But your position -- I
want to be sure I understand it -- is that if the record
in this case had been -- let's say it's a mail fraud
case, they proved one mailing and one victim lost $30,
and that's all the trial established, but as a matter of
fact you could establish this was part of a scheme, just
like the one we've got here, in which millions of
dollars were lost, you could prove that independently
and he would still be required to be deported?
MR. GANNON: Not necessarily, Justice
Stevens. If the conviction was for the entire scheme,
then we could bring in the amounts that were relevant to
the scheme. But if --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the scheme -- the
evidence of the scheme consisted of just two mailings,
say. They allege a scheme and say it's a broad -- a
broad scheme, but they don't describe the amount. They
merely prove two mailings that involved $25 apiece. But
the scheme itself, because you proved it in other cases,
you have the facts, actually was a big scheme like we
have here. Could they rely on that for -- for
immigration purposes in a proceeding like this?
MR. GANNON: It's possible. I think it
would depend upon exactly what we could determine had
actually been associated with the original --
JUSTICE STEVENS: You can determine exactly
what you proved in this case.
MR. GANNON: Well, I -- if we had that
amount of evidence in this case, we had sentencing
stipulations and all sorts of determinations at the time
of the sentencing where the defendant did not even try
to argue that this wasn't actually the amount of loss
associated with his offense and conviction, then we
probably would be able to establish by clear and
convincing that the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not -- I -- I'm losing
you. I would -- I would have thought that you have to
have convicted him of the larger scheme.
MR. GANNON: I -- I thought, Justice Scalia,
that that was the premise of Justice Stevens' question.
That that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, it was.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I didn't --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But it didn't describe the
dimensions of the scheme. As far as the record shows,
it only affected -- it was one scheme that was as large
as this one, but the evidence to prove the scheme only
required you to prove two or three mailings involving
small amounts of money. But then later on you proved
before the immigration judge there really was a big
scheme, and that's the one he was convicted of. Isn't
that enough?
MR. GANNON: Well -- I think that it's
unlikely if we didn't have the evidence contemporaneous
with the trial.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You had the evidence, but
you didn't need it.
MR. GANNON: Well, I -- if it were like
this, we had the evidence contemporaneous with
sentencing, with $100 million stipulations and things
like that, and that makes it obviously much easier for
us to prove the extent of the underlying fraud.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I know it's easy; I'm
wondering if it's necessary. I -- I think under your
theory, it would not be necessary. As long as the
evidence is out there, you can use it in a de novo
proceeding before the immigration judge.
MR. GANNON: If -- if that were, in fact,
the scope of the conviction, because it was for -- for
the entire fraudulent scheme, then that may well be so.
Obviously, that -- the cases that have applied the --
the tethered approach, to use the word that Petitioners
invoked here, are cases in which the -- the courts and
the BIA have recognized that sometimes it is necessary
to recognize that there's a distinction between what the
defendant actually pleaded guilty to. If the defendant
pleads guilty to only an individual account, that's
involved in the scheme --
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, my -- he pleads guilty
to the mammoth scheme proved, the evidence before the
court or on the plea colloquy, whatever is described is
enough to show that he was guilty.
MR. GANNON: Well I --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But then as I understand
it, you can prove the size of the scheme later on.
MR. GANNON: I -- in those circumstances I
-- I think that we may well be able to prove that in the
second proceeding.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I would -- I thought
that was the whole case we had before us, Where you
haven't proved either as an element or -- or by a
separate jury finding how much money was involved. Your
point is you don't have to.
MR. GANNON: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You can establish that
later.
MR. GANNON: Yes, that's right, Justice
Scalia, and as long as it is the scope of the scheme
that -- that he was convicted --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose your answer,
it's your first argument, it's the -- it's the offense.
MR. GANNON: Yes, yes, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And if for Blockburger
purposes or for double jeopardy purposes, you couldn't
retry him for those other -- for that additional loss,
then that's -- I assume your argument is that that's
included within the offense for which he was convicted.
MR. GANNON: As long as the offense were in
fact the scheme rather than an individual instance of a
mailing, that's correct; and so I think that that --
that that is consistent with Justice Stevens'
hypothetical and that we would in those circumstances be
able to -- attempts to prove by clear and convincing
evidence in the civil removal proceedings that the loss
associated with the offense, which was the scheme rather
than just an individual mailing, then -- then we would
be able to prove that. Given --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your position is that in
ancillary, subsequent proceedings anything you prove
that's within the offense convicted -- say, as measured
by double jeopardy purposes, as protection against
multiple prosecutions, that you can make that showing?
MR. GANNON: Well, with -- here it's --
we're not trying to prove a separate criminal offense.
We're trying to prove that the offense --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's my point.
MR. GANNON: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I take it that that's your
whole argument.
MR. GANNON: Yes, that it -- this is the
offense of conviction. This is just like the domestic
relationship prong of the misdemeanor crime of domestic
violence that the Court decided in its recent decision
in United States v Hayes, that -- that there is a prior
conviction, some aspects of which were elements of the
underlying offense, and in order to establish whether
the prior conviction needs the statutory definition in
the subsequent proceeding, the government will need to
bear the appropriate burden of proof for that
proceeding. Whether it's --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the appropriate
burden of proof was beyond a reasonable doubt. That is
in the second proceeding, the recidivist, the multiple
offender proceeding --
MR. GANNON: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- the relationship,
domestic relationship had to be proved beyond a
reasonable doubt, which is not the standard that the BIA
used.
MR. GANNON: I -- I think it was beyond the
reasonable doubt in the context of the 922(g)(9)
prosecution --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. GANNON: -- because that was itself a
criminal proceeding, and that's right, Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, yes.
MR. GANNON: We think that if this
definition were -- were to be applied in the criminal
context, then we would need to prove this aspect, the
loss threshold.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's what you're
talking about, the alien who is convicted of a
qualifying crime, an aggravating felony, then tries --
then comes back illegally. The difference between two
years and 20 years, you admit there you would have to
prove beyond a reasonable doubt?
MR. GANNON: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, just to
be clear it's -- there's already a 10-year statutory
maximum that applies under 1326(b)(1) for the prior
conviction for a felony. I think that's something that
can easily be established through the categorical
approach and we would not need to have a "beyond a
reasonable doubt" determination in the illegal reentry
proceeding under 1326 to determine it's a felony.
But in order to determine that it is an
aggravated felony, as long as we could not satisfy
through a categorical approach to demonstrate that it
was an element of the offense in the original
proceeding, then, yes, I agree; we would need to meet
the relevant burden of proof in the 1326(b)(2)
proceeding.
Now, as it happens, this -- the extra
10-year statutory maximum at issue in 1326(b)(2)
effectively never gets litigated because the sentencing
guidelines arrange for aggravated felony enhancements in
that context for crimes like subparagraph (M)(1), ranges
from 21 months on the low end with no criminal history
to 5 months on the high end with criminal history of 6.
And so this effectively -- the extra 10 years of
statutory range is never employed by -- by judges for
these types of crimes.
In the last three years, according to
sentencing commission data, there isn't a single
defendant in the 1326 proceeding who received a sentence
of more than 10 years and had an increase on the basis
of an aggravated felony that would include the category
that we're dealing with here in subparagraph (M)(1).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Gannon, we're
dealing with the definition of a particular term,
aggravated felony. And yet you say the only thing that
you have to prove under the protections of criminal law
to prove that this is an aggravated felony is that it
involved fraud or deceit. Now, the other elements --
the other provisions here talk about firearms offenses,
child pornography offenses, national security offenses,
but here it's fraud or deceit. I mean, it's a felony,
but there's nothing that strikes -- strikes me that it's
particularly an aggravated felony.
MR. GANNON: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And yet that's all
you have to prove with the protections of the criminal
law as opposed to the civil.
MR. GANNON: Well, I think we have to prove
for purposes of the relevant proceeding in which we're
trying to establish that it is an aggravated felony that
it also exceeded the $10,000 threshold.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But not subject to
the protections of criminal law that you have to show.
MR. GANNON: No more --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Beyond the
reasonable doubt, with the jury protections.
MR. GANNON: Well, we would need to prove
that if it were relevant to a criminal proceeding, but
in the civil removal proceeding those protections aren't
there. And so we --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, I guess what
I'm saying, the only thing that makes this aggravated,
the $10,000, in contrast to the other things, which are
aggravated by virtue of elements that you have to
approve -- you have to prove beyond a reasonable
doubt -- is that it's fraud ir deceit. And as I said,
there's nothing about that that -- it's bad, but it
doesn't strike me as particularly aggravated.
MR. GANNON: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, there
are several other statutes here that have extra limiting
factors that are necessary to make the crime an
aggravated one for purposes of the aggravated felony,
but don't have to be proved as an element of the
original offense. Congress has established --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's just --
I think that's kind of begging the question. You assume
that those elements, those provisions also don't have to
be proved as elements. And what I'm suggesting, I
guess, is that if the only thing that makes it
aggravated is -- is something you don't have to prove
beyond a reasonable doubt, it seems that we ought to
look, well, is that really aggravated?
MR. GANNON: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And when you're
talking about firearm offenses, or child pornography,
yes, that's aggravated; but fraud and deceit is kind of
a run of the mine felony.
MR. GANNON: Well, but for many of the
offenses it's things that as Petitioner acknowledges,
would never be proved as elements of the offense. It's
the notion that a crime of violence is one in which the
term of imprisonment is at least one year. There are
other ones that depend on the actual sentence that was
imposed.
There is a second or subsequent offense
that's referred to in subparagraph (J); there is an
exception for purely political offenses from the
definition of -- of crime of violence. There are
affirmative defenses --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I guess I
don't understand how that's responsive. It's -- it's --
MR. GANNON: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- part of violence.
In other words it seems to me you're already in the
aggravated area, so it makes sense to say that's what
you have to prove.
MR. GANNON: But not according to Congress.
It is only in the area, if it is not a purely political
offense, and if the term of imprisonment is at least one
year. And so by definition, it already can't be an
aggravated felony according to Congress if it doesn't
meet other factors that we would not have expected the
original jury to determine as an element of the original
crime of violence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I -- I guess I don't
understand the answer, and I'm sorry if it's --
MR. GANNON: Well, I'm the one that's sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- I'm hard to get
through.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It just -- you're
saying is that there are exceptions, but I don't see
that that detracts from the point that "crime of
violence" -- you think right away, well, that's
aggravated; national security crimes, that's aggravated;
firearms offenses, that's aggravated. They're sort of
on their own without respect to these other things that
you say you only have to prove by the civil -- pursuant
to the civil burden requirements. Fraud or deceit -- as
I guess I've already said, that doesn't strike me as
particularly aggravated.
MR. GANNON: Well -- and I think that's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What makes it
aggravated is something as to which you have a much
lighter burden.
MR. GANNON: Well, it's -- it's not a much
lighter burden in the sense that we do, for purposes of
the civil removal proceeding, need to establish it by
clear and convincing evidence, and -- and it is, in --
in a subsequent criminal proceeding, there will be all
the constitutional protections that you're talking
about, just like the domestic relationship prong of the
-- of the crime that the Court considered in Hayes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I would have thought
you would not accept the Chief Justice's premise, that a
crime of violence is an aggravated felony.
MR. GANNON: Well, I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It isn't.
MR. GANNON: I tried to explain that it is
not as long as there isn't a sentence that is imposed of
at least 1 year according to Congress's way of
determining what is an aggravated felony, and Congress
has determined that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the -- but the Chief
Justice points out that the facts that make the fraud
aggravated are facts that you do not have to prove
beyond a reasonable doubt, which takes back to your
opponent's argument. Therefore, you were not convicted
by proof beyond a reasonable doubt of the aggravated
felony that's the basis for the immigration order.
MR. GANNON: Well, that's correct, Justice
Stevens, but in -- in that regard --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So you were not convicted
of the aggravated offense that -- the issue in this
case.
MR. GANNON: Well, no, we think that you
were convicted of the offense, which is an offense that
involves fraud or deceit, and then there is the further
limitation that Congress has imposed, not as an element
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the -- but you hadn't
been convicted of the aggravated offense until you
established its aggravation by proof of less -- not
under a reasonable doubt. So the word "convicted"
really is pretty important.
MR. GANNON: But it -- it can't have that
same meaning with regard to all of these other things in
all of these other offenses in which Congress has
determined they're not an aggravated felony until those
other criteria are also satisfied. I mean -- so we
think that in a statute that indisputably involves
individual offenses that have both elements of the
offense and nonelement limiting factors in order to
limit the category to those that Congress would have
deemed to be aggravated, that it makes sense to not have
to find as an element of the offense those extra factors
that generally wouldn't be for most of the other
provisions. And here we know if that reading is imposed
on this statute, that it reads out all the mainstays of
Federal fraud prosecutions and brings in a haphazard
patchwork of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It depends on how you read
the language. I guess -- I guess grammatically it could
be read either way. You can read it: an offense that
involves fraud or deceit in which -- in which the loss
to the victim exceeds $10,000. Or you could read it:
convicted of an offense that involves fraud or deceit,
in which the loss to the victim exceeds $10,000.
I mean, "convicted" doesn't necessarily
apply to the last -- to the last phrase.
MR. GANNON: And we --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and that's basically
what we're arguing about.
MR. GANNON: And we think --
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but the word
"convicted" -- the question is whether the word
"convicted" applies to the word "aggravated." That's
the point, as I understand the Chief Justice's
questioning, which goes to the burden of proof. So you
would win even under that approach if you said you had a
proof beyond a reasonable doubt of the other factors.
But the thing that creates the -- the
missing link is that to convert it from ordinary fraud
to aggravated fraud, you have to prove X under one view
by a reasonable -- beyond a reasonable doubt, but, under
your view, by only clear and convincing evidence.
MR. GANNON: Well, for purposes of a civil
removal proceeding, that's true, and that's no different
from the limiting factors in several of the other
provisions, like the sentence that was imposed -- the
potential sentence -- whether there was an exception for
a first offense that involved family members, for the
alien smuggling and document fraud, crimes in (N) and
(P).
And the -- this also is a reading that we
can't impose on subparagraph (M)(ii), where we know that
there is no loss requirement there, that the government
have a revenue loss of more than $10,000 for a crime in
which the loss to the government is $10,000. The "in
whiches" here are parallel to the "for whiches"
elsewhere in --in the statute.
And although Petitioner invokes the guilty
plea practice in the context of tax evasion offenses for
purposes of section 7201, this -- this doesn't help his
argument for the same reason that he cannot use
extraneous elements and guilty pleas generally to
establish that something was necessary for a conviction.
But if you look at the criminal tax manual that he
invokes, it makes clear by referring to relevant conduct
and the need for the loss amount there to include all of
the losses for all of the years in the indictment, even
if the defendant has pleaded guilty to an individual
count for a single year of tax evasion, that the loss
amounts that is typically included in guilty pleas in
7201 cases is not the loss amount that is relevant here.
It is in fact directly parallel to the sentencing
stipulation that -- that the Petitioner entered into
here.
If the Court has no further questions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Gannon.
MR. GANNON: The court of appeals should be
affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Moseley, you
have 4 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS E. MOSELEY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. MOSELEY: With respect to the issue of
deference, the fact that this is part of a Federal
criminal statute I believe doesn't get us -- cuts off
the inquiry, and we don't get to Chevron deference here.
We deal with a dual use statute which has both civil and
criminal applications, so that under these
circumstances, certainly as this Court held in Leocal
and in Lopez-Gonzalez, Chevron deference with respect to
Babaisakov would not -- for example -- would not be
triggered.
I think, moreover, it's important to note
that the Babaisakov got (M)(ii) wrong -- got the -- the
requirement of a deficiency wrong, and also got wrong
the fact that there were no statutes involved where
fraud -- where a loss amount in excess of $10,000 would
be an element.
Finally, I think the government's reading of
this statute might make sense if Congress had said that
-- convicted of a crime in -- a crime in which fraud or
deceit is an element, with loss to be found at removal
proceedings in excess of $10,000. But that's not the
language that Congress employed here, and under these
circumstances, even if the statute is perceived to be
ambiguous, that ambiguity should be resolved in the
Petitioner's favor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: To come back to the
deference point, you say -- is this relevant to the
criminal conviction? He's convicted criminally
regardless of how you read that. You acknowledge it
doesn't -- it isn't an element of the crime, and so to
be convicted criminally you acknowledge you don't have
to show the amount --
MR. MOSELEY: But --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- right?
MR. MOSELEY: But what the government has
said, if they're going to do a prosecution under 8
U.S.C. 1326(b), that they would seek to prove this
amount de novo in the underlying criminal proceeding.
So it will form -- it would form part of a -- it would
form part of a criminal prosecution --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, in that later
criminal proceeding, they would have to prove it
undoubtedly --
MR. MOSELEY: Right, and that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But this is not a later
criminal proceeding; this is an administrative
proceeding. And why shouldn't it be up to the BIA
initially to determine how to interpret this language
for purposes of the deportation laws?
MR. MOSELEY: It shouldn't, Justice Scalia,
because we deal with a dual use statute, as this Court
Leocal, which indeed was also a civil removal
proceeding, or Lopez-Gonzalez, which was a civil removal
proceedings. Leocal involved 18 U.S.C. 16 -- 16(b), and
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: But there -- was it not
true that there the interpretation placed upon the
statute by BIA would also be the interpretation
necessary to secure the criminal conviction? And that's
not the case here.
MR. MOSELEY: But it was -- but in
Lopez-Gonzalez, there was a -- there was a Board of
Immigration Appeals decision, Matter of Yanez, which was
directly opposite to what this Court held and ultimately
rejected in that decision. There -- this clearly is a
statute, I submit, that implicates -- that implicates a
Federal criminal prosecution later. And indeed if the
government, as the government's brief, says that they're
going to prove this amount in some subsequent illegal
reentry prosecution, that I submit raises more far more
concerns with respect to practicality.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I frankly couldn't
understand the government's concession on that point. I
thought the -- the offense on illegal entry was to enter
illegally after you've been deported. It's a -- there's
a defense if the original deportation was flawed?
MR. MOSELEY: No --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't understand that.
MR. MOSELEY: Well, that may be a separate
issue, Justice Kennedy. There is the sentencing
enhancement if it's after -- if someone enters or
reenters illegally after a conviction of an aggravated
felony. And what the government apparently has said is
that they would prove for a person whose aggravated
felony arguably falls within (i) --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I see. I see.
MR. MOSELEY: -- they would prove that loss
de novo in Federal Court.
MR. MOSELEY: I see my time is up.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:01 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
37:11,15 40:23,25 41:6 9:23 15:5 arguing 12:15 19:3 39:12
53:13 42:6,10,10,18 34:22 49:7 47:16 backdrop 22:3
45:9,15,19,22 11:13,15 20:8 13:6 17:22 13:3,4
51:1 39:11 apiece 33:16 49:19 40:18 45:23
46:11 appeals 49:15 11:10 bearing 20:9,10
agreeing 10:8 APPEARAN... arrives 29:25 begins 3:25
48:11 22:12,13 19:9 25:8,10 23:13 49:20
7:20 8:1 application 9:16 aspects 17:8 7:17 16:11,11
allege 33:14 applies 5:6 31:24 32:17 45:20,22 47:24
ambiguity 22:19 47:20 37:13 BIA 27:24 35:22
19:19 ambiguous 24:22,24 47:13 32:23 52:3
50:19 Apprendi 5:8 assume 37:4 bifurcation
6:25 8:2 9:3,9 17:3,4,20 1:7 Blockburger
19:9,14 21:8 27:15 35:20 a.m 1:14 3:2 board 28:23
32:1,13 20:15 38:12,14 B booted 14:14
8:14 12:7 33:15 34:2,5 April 1:10 Babaisakov 9:6 bound 30:22
24:24 49:3,8 50:10 area 43:18,21 50:4,7 brief 3:17 6:2
14:6 40:19 46:22 32:12 37:12 52:18 contemporane...
28:5 cause 18:5 41:10,22 44:16 concrete 6:17 35:2,7
certain 27:25 44:17 45:1 conduct 12:24 contest 11:10
20:2,3 32:14 50:2 clause 4:1 12:9 26:10 39:7 40:9
38:12,15 31:13 13:6 16:10 Congress 3:21 contract 23:20
44:17,23 changed 5:8,11 clear 5:18 14:6 3:22 4:4,8 10:1 contrast 42:1
47:22 chapter 28:2 25:3 26:10,20 13:20 14:16,18 convenient 3:14
16:16 31:4 34:7 16:1,2 18:21 convict 6:20
Chevron 49:24 18:13 52:10 46:7,16,22 17:7,15,16,24
5:7 6:18 40:21 41:8,15 colloquy 6:25 45:14 34:24 36:22
7:7,14 41:18,24 42:7 10:7 36:4 conjunction 37:5,18 39:10
9:18 42:13,22 43:13 come 11:21,21 17:12 45:21 46:1,5
16:23 43:16 44:3,6,9 13:17 29:11 connection 5:1 46:10,12 47:10
20:8 44:21 45:8,17 50:21 consequences 47:12,19,20
29:20 47:21 49:13,17 comes 39:12 7:21 27:14 50:14,23 51:1
31:3,24 53:10 commenting considered conviction 3:18
33:1,2 child 41:3 42:23 11:13 31:15 45:6 3:22 4:1,4
34:2 chooses 16:15 commission consisted 33:13 11:19 17:10,12
46:3 16:15 18:8 40:16 consistency 18:23 20:10
53:11,12 19:12,13 21:2 commit 16:7 27:21 22:10 24:18
9:20,20 31:13 28:11 37:9 27:1,4 33:9
19:16 Circuit 3:25 committing 30:2 consistently 34:6 35:17
21:25 circumstances company 30:2 28:10 32:19 38:4,8,10
28:19 4:23 8:4 10:16 compass 13:25 conspiracy 39:18 48:25
35:19,21 10:20 11:18 complicated 27:17 50:23 52:4
12:21 15:1 28:17 constitute 27:25 53:2
9:16 10:4 18:18 19:11 20:18 45:4 24:24
13:1 27:25 36:9 concede 25:5 construction convincing
21:24 37:10 50:2,18 conceding 6:5,6 8:21 12:6 30:20 31:4
23:24 cite 5:17 6:1 16:12 22:20 34:8 37:11
26:21 9:21 concept 14:23 construe 27:12 45:2 48:4
cites 28:4 concerns 52:16 contemplate correct 37:8
2:5 23:12 deficiency 8:23 determination doing 11:3
4:11 D 3:1 define 13:15,22 34:3 doubt 38:15,21
23:15 data 40:16 defined 3:23 determine 16:12 38:24 39:14,21
36:4 day 5:11 definitely 18:17 16:14 19:9 41:19 42:4,19
45:6 de 35:14 51:8 definition 3:11 26:21 30:12 45:20,22 46:12
50:2 53:8 3:20,23,25 4:3 31:14 33:22,24 47:24 48:3
52:9 deal 49:25 51:21 12:6,12 24:23 39:22,23 44:1 downward 32:6
dealing 10:11 27:7 38:10 51:18 drawn 15:15
debate 25:21 definitions 3:16 29:2 45:16 51:21
16:25 47:8,10 50:15 39:25 11:15,17 39:12 earlier 21:6,7
38:5 deception 14:7 denying 16:7 different 28:19 early 5:3
42:9 27:23,24 Department 48:6 easier 35:9
44:2 decided 31:25 1:19 differently easily 39:19
45:6,9 38:6 departure 32:6 15:25 16:8 easy 16:20 35:11
50:14,14 decision 8:25 depend 19:11 difficulty 16:19 effect 5:21 10:1
9:6 38:6 52:8 21:1,2 30:17 dimensions 14:19 30:15
48:11 deemed 46:23 depending 16:9 directly 49:9 40:12
16:13 10:15 20:11 depends 47:5 discretion 29:25 47:7
22:18,24 25:8,17 30:1 deportable 30:7 element 4:2 5:19
24:16 30:24 31:8,25 13:21 14:23 discretionary 6:5,7 7:24 9:1
34:4 35:24,24 17:13,14,15 21:12 30:22 9:5 12:13,18
37:22 40:17 49:5 19:7 discussed 4:11 13:7,23 15:2
40:10 defendants 7:8,9 deportation dispositive 15:10 16:24
41:9 7:15,20 8:1 3:12,22 16:13 32:11 17:2 18:14
45:3 20:22,23 30:15 51:19 disputed 11:5 20:17 27:9,10
50:1 defendant's 52:21 distinction 27:11,14 36:14
51:8,10 10:6,8 29:18 deported 33:7 22:15 35:23 40:1 42:11
52:4 32:3 52:20 distinguish 7:19 44:1 46:7,24
defense 52:21 describe 33:15 distinguished 50:11,15,25
deference 49:22 described 8:18 distinguishes 26:24 38:8
43:3 34:2,20 35:2,4 F Finally 50:12 35:18
48:24 35:7,14 36:3 F 22:12 find 8:2,23 9:10 fulfilled 4:21
ex 17:20 19:24 21:5 46:24 further 14:11
14:17 example 6:17 32:22 33:4 36:15 future 20:10
9:6,15 15:3 35:16 37:7 findings 26:14
50:9
12:18 factors 31:23 44:14 gain 31:8,10
41:14 48:7 48:10 23:14,25 24:10
exceeds 8:20 26:14,25 27:1 flatly 9:7 28:21 29:12
29:15 47:9,11 33:18 45:18,19 forgery 28:2 32:7 33:8,21
48:9 family 48:10 forms 3:20 35:16 36:6,9
35:18 50:16 50:20 frankly 52:17 40:21 41:7,11
excuse 6:12 15:5 15:13 16:5 15:17,22 16:8 44:24 45:10,12
expand 13:20 27:15 47:3 23:20 25:16 47:14,17 48:5
33:4 14:23 23:24 49:22 52:12 27:16,17,17,18 49:14,15
36:18 expected 43:25 53:8 27:25 28:6,7,8 gargantuan
41:13 expense 13:13 federally 15:4 28:8,9,11 32:20
48:25 experience 5:4,9 felonies 24:24 29:14,17,19,21 general 1:7,19
39:19 extend 6:4 felony 3:11,20 31:19 33:1 generally 14:7
46:11 extent 35:10 8:15 12:7 35:10 41:1,4 46:25 48:24
19:5,6 extraneous 24:3 40:8,19,23,25 47:3,8,10 48:1 8:25 9:2,9 15:7
49:6 24:14 25:6 41:4,6,13 48:2,11 50:10 15:18,24 16:6
28:25 48:24 45:9,15,23 frauds 23:21 25:7 29:24
31:4 extreme 23:20 46:17 53:3,5 31:14 30:6,25 31:3,7
33:13 eye 29:1 figure 13:19,23 fraudulent 28:2 31:9 32:2
39:1 28:17 32:10 52:14,19 20:24 27:18 28:14
40:8 illegally 39:12 initially 51:18 40:6 46:2
guilty 6:21,24 imagine 14:16 instance 37:7
13:7 48:24 49:5,7 52:8 insurance 28:6 Jersey 28:7
19:3 implausibly integral 3:13,20 jettison 22:7
12:1 13:5 half 24:7 implicates 52:11 22:6 24:24 7:23 18:8 20:7
19:19 handful 23:18 52:11 interpret 51:18
25:8,9
24:14
51:6 haphazard 47:3 important 9:23 52:2,3 31:11,23 32:15
happen 22:9,10 18:20 22:7 interrogatories 34:23 35:15
6:4 hard 44:6 48:14 interrogatory judgment 31:18
9:12 Hayes 38:7 45:6 imposed 43:7 6:23 18:1,3 juries 5:6
13:13 health 28:7 45:13 46:7 20:9,16 25:11 jury 4:17,23
18:25 hear 3:3 5:7 47:1 48:8 25:22 5:10,19 6:21
20:15 held 22:21 24:16 imprisonment introduced 27:1 7:8,25 8:7,11
23:20 26:16 50:2 43:5,22 investigation 8:23 9:10 18:2
25:20 52:9 include 9:17 26:23 18:4,9 19:8,10
28:15 help 16:19 48:22 12:12,25,25 invoked 35:21 19:15 20:8
38:11 high 40:11 13:8 27:9 invokes 27:22
51:5
53:3 hog 12:16,17 included 37:5 involved 4:19 26:10,14,17
9:21 hold 21:10 including 27:16 14:4 33:16 41:19 44:1
17:21 Holder 1:6 3:4 increase 40:18 36:1,15 41:1 Justice 1:19 3:3
52:13,18 home 14:16 independently 48:10 50:9 3:8 4:13,14,15
hypothetical indicate 9:21 involves 12:9 6:3,9,16 7:5,6
indictment 49:4 29:17 46:6,19 8:16,24 9:2,9
idea 20:7 30:11 27:8 involving 17:25 10:23 11:6,12
16:7 46:19 34:21 13:2,11 14:10
43:13 50:7 35:25 37:7,14 irrelevant 26:1 16:6,17,18
47:6,6 IIRIRA 24:25 46:20 49:5 issue 3:10 8:7 17:9,11,18
21:4,6 L 8:20 9:12,17 26:20 modifying 13:5
23:4 language 4:7 9:18 10:7,7,9 mammoth 36:3 moment 14:25
10:2 18:23 10:13 11:24 mandatory Monday 1:10
24:8,12 47:6 50:17 12:10,18 13:8 21:11 monetary 28:5,7
26:6 51:18 13:15 14:8 MANJO 1:3 money 25:12
29:5,24 large 34:19 15:4,22 16:22 manual 49:1 34:22 36:15
larger 8:14 16:25 18:13,25materials 9:21 months 40:10,11
32:2 34:11 20:4,16 21:21 matter 1:12 morning 3:4
33:8,12 Laughter 44:8 25:10,14,16 10:18 11:2 Moseley 1:16
34:9,12 law 40:24 41:10 26:1 27:12 33:3 52:8 2:3,8 3:5,6,8
41:16 28:15,17,19,22 53:13 4:22 5:13,16
36:2,7 laws 51:19 28:25 29:7,9 maximum 39:17 6:9 7:2,12 8:3
lead 16:13 29:14,16,22 40:6 8:24 9:4,14
37:1,9 Leocal 22:21 30:12 31:5,10 mean 14:16 10:10,19 11:3
38:1 50:2 51:22,24 32:13,17,20,22 21:10 25:1 11:8,16 12:20
39:1 lesser 10:13 34:5 37:3,12 41:4 46:18 13:9 14:2,18
let's 6:17,18 39:8 47:8,11 47:12 14:24 15:18
41:8,15 33:1 48:15,16,17 meaning 46:15 16:1,11,17,18
42:7 liable 32:1 49:3,6,8 50:10means 12:7 23:6 17:6,11 18:10
43:13 liberal 10:14 50:15 53:7 meant 19:21,23 19:10,22 20:13
44:3,6,9 lifeline 5:22 6:4 losses 29:2 49:4measured 28:16 20:25 21:13,18
45:7,11 light 5:8 lost 30:19 31:20 37:18 23:7 49:17,19
lighter 44:23,25 33:2,6 meet 40:2 43:25 49:21 51:3,5
47:5,15 limit 46:22 lots 28:18,19 members 48:10 51:14,20 52:6
49:13,17 limitation 46:7 low 40:10 mention 15:10 52:22,24 53:7
51:4,11 limiting 27:10 merely 33:16 53:9
52:1 M metric 31:13 multiple 20:22
46:21
48:7 M 3:17 6:10 million 29:7,7 22:23 27:8
line 14:15 15:15 8:17 9:25,25 29:19,20 35:8 37:20 38:16
23:16 25:15 million-dollar N
26:8
5:1,14 37:6 39:24 machina 17:21 minutes 23:1 44:13
21:4 45:13 mail 6:17,18,20 49:18 nature 12:8 13:4
36:23,25 look 14:4 15:20 27:16 33:1 misdemeanor necessarily 4:17
18:11 42:20 mailing 33:2 38:5 4:18 12:20
52:17,23 49:1 37:8,14 missing 48:1 28:22 30:12
53:6 Lopez-Gonzalez mailings 33:13 Model 27:22 32:1 33:8
42:14,24 52:7 mainstays 23:17 modified 9:16 necessary 6:7
19:18 losing 34:9 majority 14:5,6 21:23,23 23:23 24:15 26:22,25
35:11 loss 4:2,25 5:18 19:16 23:23,23 24:2 27:3 35:12,13
48:14 6:5,7,19,23 8:6 making 11:10 26:21 35:22 42:9
52:4 34:6 36:24 outlying 23:19 19:6,7 29:8 41:3 42:23
35:5 37:22,23 38:4 22:17 persuasive 15:9 18:24
39:7,20 38:9 40:1 32:13 32:8,24 37:16
41:20 42:12 43:3,8 P Petitioner 1:4 possible 33:21
49:3 43:22 46:2,5,5 P 3:1 48:12 1:17 2:4,9 3:7 postconviction
38:10 47:7,10 48:10 paid 30:4 48:20 49:10,20 post-verdict
offenses 6:13 par 4:9 35:20 potential 48:9
27:18,20,23,25 parallel 19:20 23:16 27:14 24:22
7:13,17 8:5 48:21 22:18 33:4 phrased 25:22 practices 28:2
Okay 13:2 participant placed 13:19 18:22
operate 19:21 particular 18:16 19:19 20:1 10:14,24
15:9 opponent's 30:1,23 40:22 48:21 25:25
option 5:25 patchwork 24:21 27:2 prior 38:7,10
18:2 24:3 pay 32:1 pocket 30:3 31:8 14:11 15:7
8:18 9:5 46:21 people 15:24 26:1 28:14 26:13,15 30:21
ordinary 48:1 16:7 36:16 37:24 32:12 33:20
original 15:1 perceived 50:18 44:11 47:21 35:15 36:11
17:25 26:13 31:22 percent 31:17 50:22 52:18 38:11,13,16,17
20:18 33:23 40:1 perfectly 20:14 pointing 24:12 39:3,22 40:2,4
26:24 42:12 44:1,1 period 10:25 points 45:18 40:17 41:12,21
29:14 52:21 22:5 political 43:10 41:22 45:1,3
ought 42:19 permit 24:14 43:21 48:6 51:8,12
31:5,21 oust 4:8 person 11:23,23 pornography 51:16,17,23
25:4 provision 8:18 18:17 40:13 13:15,23 14:13 reserve 23:2
50:16 13:18 22:17 ranges 40:9 referred 43:9 reserving 11:9,9
provisions 6:12 reach 5:14 referring 49:2 resolution 10:21
19:20 22:11 16:23 17:12 regard 29:3 19:17 22:1,22
38:12,15 purpose 20:20 48:13 50:12 relationship 9:22 11:5
45:22 24:12 reads 47:2 38:5,19,20 44:15 49:21
47:22,24 purposes 10:9 realize 9:24 45:5 50:3 52:16
21:3 25:14 26:1,15 11:25 16:19 25:14 26:3,4 1:20 2:6 23:13
38:25 30:13 31:12,21 34:23 42:20 40:3 41:12,21 responsible
52:12 32:4,9,10 46:13 49:2,8 50:22 25:12,18
33:20 37:2,2 reason 15:11 reluctant 26:7 responsive
27:16 42:10 44:25 32:16 48:23 relying 17:3 restitution
47:3 48:5,22 51:19 reasonable remaining 49:18 28:24 29:3,25
44:16 39:14,21 41:19 25:4 31:12,24 32:1
41:9,16 47:24 48:3,3 removal 18:22 13:4,6
45:4 Q reasonably 29:8 19:2 25:4 results 14:21,22
25:25 39:11 30:10 37:12 41:22 retry 37:3
31:4 question 7:22 rebuttal 2:7 45:1 48:6 return 3:15 5:20
34:20 11:14,15 12:1 23:3,4,9 49:19 50:15 51:22,23 6:22
35:10 16:19 19:4 received 40:17 reply 14:6 28:5 returns 6:21
37:11 20:9 25:14 recidivist 38:16 request 8:9 revenue 8:20
34:13 42:14 recognize 18:21 requested 8:12 9:12,18 48:16
40:24 47:19 35:23 require 4:1 rhyme 15:11
41:9,11 questioned 18:9 recognized 26:13 right 11:9,25
42:3,18 questioning 35:22 required 3:21 36:20 39:3
44:16 47:22 recollection 3:22 4:4 21:21 44:12 51:4,14
48:2 questions 23:2 13:16 21:22 33:7 ROBERTS 3:3
52:14 24:6,14 26:19 record 32:25 34:21 23:10 25:19
49:12 34:18 requirement 40:21 41:8,15
34:22 R reenters 53:2 11:22 17:13 42:22 43:13,16
38:20 R 3:1 reentry 39:21 19:25 30:23 44:3,6,9,21
43:3 raised 24:7 52:15 48:15 50:8 49:13,17 53:10
security 41:3 single 40:16 28:4 38:7 strikes 41:5,5
44:10 19:5,24 6:10,20 8:14 submit 4:6,9
46:18 27:5,12 43:18 Solicitor 1:18 20:2,2 21:20 53:13
31:6 50:13 31:20 28:16,20 29:13 23:16 25:15
sensitive 30:11 sorry 44:4,5 46:19 47:2 27:13 29:13
22:10 40:17 sorts 31:23 34:3 52:3,11 subpart 22:12
16:6 24:2 43:6 45:13 Souter 4:13,15 statutes 5:17,18 subsequent
44:10 48:8,9 10:17,20,23 5:24 6:11,15 37:17 38:11
25:20 10:11,22 18:12 12:21 13:2,11 12:23,24 13:10 52:14
18:17 21:9 14:10,20,25 13:14 14:4,5,7 sufficient 12:3
21:6,14 28:17,23 31:23 so-called 24:2 15:10 16:3 suggesting
23:4,8 32:4,9 34:2,4 special 5:6,20 17:22 18:12 20:12,13 42:16
24:1,8 35:8 40:7,16 6:22 20:8,15 42:8 50:9 suppose 14:12
34:9,12 49:9 52:25 24:20 25:11,21 statutory 3:16 14:21 36:23
36:12,18 separate 18:1 specific 15:4 14:3,12 22:12 Supreme 1:1,13
45:7,11 19:1,1 36:15 22:11 22:13 38:10 sure 32:25
50:21 37:22 52:24 specifically 4:24 39:16 40:6,13 suspect 3:15
serious 31:14 specified 21:9 stay 4:11 14:16 sweeps 9:17
serves 3:12 spell 26:7 steal 14:14,15 20:2,3,3
28:3 severe 22:25 stage 19:19 17:9,11 32:24 system 15:13
33:4,9,11 31:19 standard 4:6 33:9,12,24
sharp 22:15 10:14,15,18 34:13,15,17 T
34:11 sharply 18:23 11:1 12:5,14 35:4,11 36:2,7 T 2:1,1
18:24 22:9 38:21 37:9 45:17,25 take 15:9 31:12
36:1,3,8 show 36:5 41:16 standards 4:11 46:1,9 47:18 38:1
37:7,13 51:2 31:25 stipulation 26:5 taken 21:16
shown 21:21,22 6:14,15 12:23 stipulations talk 22:13,14
38:16 sight 22:16 14:15,15 15:16 stole 18:3 talked 5:15
signal 10:1 16:3 27:19 strange 13:22 talking 5:3 8:17
22:21 States 1:1,13 strike 42:6 42:23 45:4
19:5,5,6 34:12 36:12 40:14 value 31:18 wish 20:16
45:7 52:19 typically 49:7 variation 24:1 wondering
49:1,6 three 7:13 13:17 vast 19:16 35:12
40:15 ultimately 25:6 verdict 4:17 35:20 46:12
22:8 27:12 29:16 underlying 3:19 verdicts 5:6 words 17:13
39:8 41:14 26:22,24 29:2 29:1,15 31:11 work 24:5
53:10 time 13:19 23:2 21:5 view 48:2,4 46:25
27:23,24 times 22:5 11:12 12:4,11 43:4,11,16 wrong 9:7 12:19
tiny 23:18 36:7 43:14 X
41:25 told 19:18 52:18,23 W
47:25 total 29:7,9 understates Y
44:15 treated 16:8 undoubtedly wanted 14:22 yeah 13:11
28:10 51:13 20:18,19,20 year 43:5,23
9:7,23 trial 7:15 19:6 uniform 14:19 Washington 1:9 years 39:13,13
12:20 19:20 20:7 14:20 15:19,20 1:19 40:12,15,18
15:14 33:3 35:3 uniformity wasn't 34:5 49:4
18:10,20 tried 32:19 15:23 way 15:15 19:21
22:7 45:12 19:23 29:8
$10,000 4:19
23:25 tries 39:11 45:14 47:7
26:9 27:5 triggered 50:5 ways 16:21
29:12,16 true 21:9 48:6 28:19
12:10,13,18,25
30:10,21 52:2 went 7:15
32:7 truly 10:11 we're 5:7,22
13:19,23 16:22
35:1,12 26:14 8:17 10:2,3,11
37:8 try 34:4 11:10 32:10,12
48:23 20:5,5 29:15
39:5,18 trying 13:20 37:22,23 40:20
51:21 29:23 30:19
42:14 37:22,23 41:13 40:21 41:12
46:4 turn 24:19 47:16
47:17 two 6:18 7:12,13 we've 21:12 33:5
7:17 9:24,25 whiches 48:18
$100 29:7,7,19
5 23:1 31:17
1:5 40:11
15:5
40:9,20 45:14 6
40:12,18 6 32:9 40:11
8:21 6a 3:17 17:14
20:4
39:16 7
7a 3:18
1:14 3:2 7201 8:19 48:22
22:12 49:8
53:12
8
8 3:11 51:6
39:22 8a 3:18
22:18 9
922(g)(9) 38:24
39:17
40:3
25:13
7:14
51:24
51:24
51:24
31:16
31:17
22:12,13
39:13
1:10
8:19 40:10
2:6
8:19
1:10
2:4
3:17
