CONNECTICUT AVE., NW
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
WILLIAM G. SCHWAB, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-538
NADEJDA REILLY. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, November 3, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:01 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CRAIG G. GOLDBLATT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington,
D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioner.
G. ERIC BRUNSTAD, JR., ESQ., Hartford, Conn.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CRAIG G. GOLDBLATT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Petitioner 20
G. ERIC BRUNSTAD, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 30
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CRAIG G. GOLDBLATT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 58
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:01 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Case 08-538, Schwab v. Reilly.
Mr. Goldblatt.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CRAIG G. GOLDBLATT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GOLDBLATT: Thank you. Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
The debtor in this case claimed, in the
third column of Schedule C, a $10,718 exempt interest in
her kitchen equipment. That claim of exemption was
fully proper. The trustee did not object to it because
it was unobjectionable.
The debtor's position here is that because
of what she wrote in the fourth column, where she
estimated the value of the equipment as the same amount
of the exemption, that her claim of exemption itself
should be read to say something different from and
greater than what it actually says.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Goldblatt, I thought
that what she said -- I'm looking at Schedule C,
property claimed as exempt. She lists, as property
claimed as exempt, "See attached list of business
equipment." And then we have an inventory going for
several handwritten pages of all these items of kitchen
equipment. And that's what she says is the property
claimed as exempt.
MR. GOLDBLATT: With respect, Justice
Ginsburg, that's incorrect. If you turn to her Schedule
C, which is in the joint appendix at pages 57 and 58a,
the first column is a description of the property, and
the third column contains the value of the claimed
exemption.
The property claimed as exempt here is the
$10,718 interest in the asset listed in column A. And
the reason that's clear, Your Honor, it's clear from the
language of the statute itself because the statutory
language of 522(l) provides that the debtor files a list
of property that the debtor claims as exempt and that,
unless a party in interest objects, the property claimed
as exempt is exempt.
522(l) refers to the property claimed as
exempt under subsection (b), and subsection (b) in turn
references subsection (d), which is the basis for the
claim of exemption here.
And 522(d), when it describes the exemption,
says the following: "The following property may be
exempted: One, the debtor's aggregate interest, not to
exceed $18,450 in property" -- it goes -- and it
enumerates a series of exemptions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But she -- in her
inventory, she gives figures, and they add up to the
amount that she's claiming, so she evidently thinks that
those numbers will cover all of her business equipment.
MR. GOLDBLATT: Justice Ginsburg, it may --
that may well be true. She may -- the debtor here may
well have believed that the value of the equipment here
was equal to the amount of the exemption. But no one
contends in any serious way that the trustee is required
to object to the debtor's valuation of the equipment.
After all --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. -- Mr. Goldblatt,
this is -- this is really my concern. It seems what she
wants is her cooking equipment, not the money
equivalent. And if the trustee had objected, she could
have said: Well, if they think that this cooking
equipment is worth more than the value that I put down,
I'll cut out the coffee maker, I'll cut out the
microwave; but what I want is the equipment, not the
dollar -- dollars for it.
MR. GOLDBLATT: Your Honor, the debtor here
may well have wanted the equipment. The question here
is, did she make a claim on her schedule that the
equipment was itself exempt in kind? There are a number
of ways that debtors can do that. They can write, "I
claim an exemption in the full amount." Here, take --
take a debtor who is saying: Look, all I want is the
exemption that Congress gives me. I understand that all
I'm entitled to here is a $10,718 interest in my
equipment. I think my equipment is worth that. If it
turns out that I'm wrong and it's worth more, I don't
want any more than the Bankruptcy Code gives me.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that would be
a remarkable coincidence if her equipment happened to be
worth exactly what Congress said she could exempt, which
is a very odd way of reading what she's put in the
schedule.
MR. GOLDBLATT: We -- Mr. Chief Justice, we
think the most natural way to read what she has said in
the schedule is that she's claiming exactly what she
says, which is that she is claiming a $10,718 interest
in the property. To get to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
the most natural way of reading it is that she's
claiming the equipment because she thinks that's the
value of the equipment.
MR. GOLDBLATT: If she wanted to claim the
equipment itself as exempt, there were a number of ways
that one could do that. She could say: I claim 100
percent interest in the equipment; I claim an in-kind
interest. Here it would be odd to read that, because
there is no suggestion that has been made by anyone that
she has any entitlement to an in-kind exemption in the
equipment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where would she say that,
100 percent interest in the equipment? Would she say
that in -- in column 3?
MR. GOLDBLATT: In either column -- yes, in
column 3.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Column 3 says "Value of
claimed exemption."
MR. GOLDBLATT: Debtors can certainly list
in the schedule. They can list an asterisk and say: I
claim an interest in the property itself. Here the --
because --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I mean, you say that.
But, boy, I wouldn't read -- I wouldn't read the -- I
wouldn't read the -- the chart that way.
MR. GOLDBLATT: There's a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It has a column that says
"Value of claimed exemption."
MR. GOLDBLATT: Correct, and the value of
the claimed exemption here was $10,718 --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. GOLDBLATT: -- which is exactly what the
trustee proposes to give her.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. GOLDBLATT: That claim of exemption was
proper. In response to Justice Ginsburg's fair
question, which is what -- what is a debtor to do here
if she wants equipment itself, the debtor is surely
entitled, Justice Ginsburg, to -- if the trustee seeks
to sell the equipment at auction, to participate in that
auction and to credit-bid her exemption. And no -- no
one disputes that. So if the -- if the debtor wants to
come to the auction and say, look, I'm bidding my
exemption, and that will buy me as much of my equipment
as it will buy me, the debtor is fully entitled to do
that. And in that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then you're going through
all the administrative expenses of having an auction
where if the trustee had tipped her off, it would be
like amending your pleading.
MR. GOLDBLATT: Well, in fairness, in this
case itself, the trustee happened to come to the section
341 meeting and say: I believe that there's value here
for the estate. I think there's value in excess of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And she was so --
so upset, she said: I'll get out of the bankruptcy; I
want my cooking equipment.
MR. GOLDBLATT: That's right, but ­-
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was very clear that
that's what the debtor wanted.
MR. GOLDBLATT: And it was equally clear
that the trustee took the position that she was entitled
to the exemption that Congress permits and no more than
that. And the debtor didn't say --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The question is whether
-- the question is whether the trustee had to make an
objection, when it seemed really as clear as could be
that what she was seeking was to keep her equipment, not
to get the -- some monetary equivalent for it.
MR. GOLDBLATT: With respect, Justice
Ginsburg, imagine you had a debtor who -- who came into
court and said: Look, I believe my equipment is worth
something equal to the amount that is permissible, that
I may permissibly claim as exempt, but I don't mean to
make an improper in-kind exemption. I don't -- I don't
want more value than Congress intends me to keep. If it
turns out to be worth more, that belongs to my
creditors. All I want is what I'm entitled to by
statute.
That debtor would have no alternative way to
express that but to do exactly what this debtor did
here. And we think the most plausible way to read it is
-- is to read it to have this debtor be expressing an
intention that is consistent with law and not one that
is improper. There is -- there is no basis under which
this debtor is entitled to keep more than a $10,718
interest, and under the ordinary presumption that you
presume parties --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, then she has -- on
your reading, her claim is improper because she's
claiming more than she's entitled to. If her claim is
improper, then the trustee has an obligation to object
to it.
MR. GOLDBLATT: Justice Ginsburg, it's only
improper if it's read to mean something different from
what it says. What she said here in the schedule is: I
claim an exempt interest of $10,718 in the equipment,
and I believe the equipment is worth that amount. The
question is, should that be read to be making an
improper claim that the equipment itself is exempt in
kind, a claim that would be -- would be clearly
improper, or --
JUSTICE ALITO: When I look at that number,
I -- and maybe I don't understand this, so maybe you or
your adversary can clarify it for me. But when I look
at that number, it seems to me there are two ways to
interpret it. One is that she is saying: I want the
full amount that I'm allowed by law. And the other is:
That I want the value of my equipment, and it just so
happens to total exactly to the dollar the amount that
I'm entitled to by law. Am I correct that those are the
two possible readings of that?
MR. GOLDBLATT: That's -- that's certainly
-- we think that that's right.
JUSTICE ALITO: And the question is which of
those is the more plausible reading?
MR. GOLDBLATT: Right, and we -- we think
that -- that for a number of reasons, the more plausible
reading is to say: All I want is what the law permits
me. The -- the principal reason is that as a general
proposition you wouldn't presume someone to be making a
claim for which there would be no legal basis. And in
any --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except that the -- that the
last column does -- it's very clearly entitled "Current
market value of property" without deducting exemptions.
There's no way to read that last figure of 10,718 except
as her assessment of the market value of her cooking
equipment.
MR. GOLDBLATT: That's exactly right,
Justice Scalia, but the critical point is that there is
no requirement that any trustee come in and object to a
valuation if the valuation is improper.
Imagine she had ­-
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you -- can you --
that was -- what you've just said, no requirement that
the trustee object to valuation, one of the briefs --
it may have been wrong, but it's the NACBA brief at page
27 -- said "Challenges to valuation are the most common
types of objections to exemptions."
MR. GOLDBLATT: Let me -- let me explain
this for a moment, if I may. Imagine the debtor here
had listed the value at $15,000 and her exempt interest
as 10,718. In that case, the debtor -- the trustee
would surely be entitled to sell the asset. The debtor
themselves acknowledges that on page 30 of the
Respondent's brief. In that case, what the value that
the equipment would obtain would be whatever a willing
buyer and willing seller would pay. It could be
$15,000, it could be $30,000, it could be $130,000. And
the fact that the actual value of what -- what a buyer
would pay for it was different from the debtor's
valuation would be of no moment. Whatever value the
trustee was able to obtain for the asset --
JUSTICE BREYER: In that case -- in that
case, I guess there wouldn't be a -- a lawsuit.
MR. GOLDBLATT: No. That's exactly right,
Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, in that case, the
debtor is never going to object. So we're never going
to have that one.
MR. GOLDBLATT: That's exactly right. But
-- but the point here is that there is no requirement
that the -- when a debtor files an individual
bankruptcy case, on Schedule B the debtor lists the
valuation, their estimated valuation of all of their
assets. There is absolutely no requirement in the
Bankruptcy Code, the Bankruptcy Rules, or anywhere else
that a trustee go through and say whether they agree or
disagree with the debtor's positive valuation. Instead,
what a trustee does is they liquidate the asset, they
generate the value that is there, and they distribute
that value to creditors.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, they don't always
liquidate the asset, if they -- if they elect -- if
everybody agrees that they get the asset itself, they
don't have to sell it.
MR. GOLDBLATT: That's exactly right. The
trustee may determine to abandon an asset to the debtor
if there's no --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what -- what you
are doing there, you -- you argue that ambiguities are
construed against the person that made the form. I
think that's a little harsh when the trustee is a repeat
player and knows -- and knows the rules.
MR. GOLDBLATT: Well ­-
JUSTICE KENNEDY: On the other hand, I think
what you have going for you is that the trustee is going
to always be at risk that the asset is worth more than
what's listed and is going to have to take steps to
value it in every -- every case.
In this case, it's -- it's clear that she ­-
she knew that the Honda was worth more. She was only
claiming $2,900, $2,950 on a Honda.
MR. GOLDBLATT: That's right, and that was
subject to a security interest here.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and if you take
that together with -- and -- and the kitchen equipment
comes next, and she -- and the value is the same in each
column. So that indicates that she was claiming the
full value.
MR. GOLDBLATT: With -- with respect to
the -- the automobile, there's -- there's a claim of
exemption and the rest is subject to a security
interest. Here -- I mean, the critical point is if a
debtor wants to -- to put to -- to the issue and say,
listen, I really want to keep the equipment itself, I
don't think there's any value here for the estate, there
is a statutory mechanism to address that. Section
554(b) says quite clearly that if -- if a party in
interest believes that there is an asset as to which
there is inconsequential value, they can seek an order
compelling the bankruptcy -- compelling the trustee to
abandon that asset to the debtor.
So there is -- I mean, Justice Ginsburg's
question -- there is a mechanism for addressing the
concern that Your Honor has with a debtor who wants a
determination that they keep a particular asset, but --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: My concern is keeping it
simple, giving fair notice to people. She's got the
same amount under exempt -- the last two columns. A
rule is proposed. It says when the two columns have the
same amount, that's a clue to the trustee that the
debtor is claiming all of the -- that particular
property. That's a nice, simple rule. It tells the
trustee when he has to object, and the end of the
matter.
MR. GOLDBLATT: With respect, Justice
Ginsburg, a -- a simpler rule would be that if a
debtor wants to say, I have an in-kind exemption in an
asset, the debtor should say that. They should use a
term that is understood to mean that.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's not in kind in
the sense that she keeps the asset no matter what.
MR. GOLDBLATT: Well, that's exactly what
the debtor is contending here. She -- the debtor here
is saying that this -- this said even if I'm wrong
about the value --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: She is contending that
she would like to keep her cooking equipment and she was
entitled to notice before it's going to be sold at an
auction.
MR. GOLDBLATT: With respect, Justice
Ginsburg, that's not right. Here the debtor was told at
the 341 meeting that the trustee intended to sell it.
Her claim is that even -- even if he can get more value
than she said it was worth, she keeps all of that value,
regardless of what it's worth, because -- because her
schedule told us unequivocally that she got to keep it
regardless of its actual value.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then -- then her claim is
wrong, her claim is objectionable, and the trustee
should have made an objection.
MR. GOLDBLATT: But the best reading of her
schedule is not to make such a claim, but rather to read
her schedule to -- to mean what it says, which is that
she claimed to have a $10,718 exemption in the property,
and insofar as the property is worth more than that,
that that's -- that -- that is a question of valuation,
which isn't the subject of an obligation to raise an
objection.
Also, to the point of simplicity, Justice
Ginsburg, if I may, the -- the virtue of the rule
that we urge here is that -- that it does provide for
simplicity. A debtor can clearly put the trustee on
notice.
The consequence of the debtor's rule would
be to require trustees, whenever schedules happen to use
the same number, to come in and file pro forma
objections. And it doesn't seem that there is any
reason as a matter of bankruptcy policy or statutory
construction to simply require more paperwork to get to
the same result.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Has that happened in the
two circuits that apply a rule similar to this, the
Sixth and the Third?
MR. GOLDBLATT: What I understand, Justice
Sotomayor, is that that -- the answer to that is yes and
that in the Third Circuit following this decision that
trustees are filing those kinds of pro forma objections.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why? I mean, you sit down
with the creditors, and you look at the list and you try
to work things out. That meeting goes on as long as you
want. And if it appears there's an argument about
valuation, you file an objection.
MR. GOLDBLATT: And --
JUSTICE BREYER: If it appears everybody can
work everything out, fine. What's the problem?
MR. GOLDBLATT: The -- the question is what
is the rule where -- where there remains disagreement?
And as --
JUSTICE BREYER: The rule is -- and that's
what it's about -- the rule is about where you object,
the trustee objects to the list. The list.
MR. GOLDBLATT: And -- and --
JUSTICE BREYER: That's called Schedule C.
If you have an objection to the list, then
it says: Here's what you do, trustee. Meet with the
creditors, try to work it out. And if in fact 30 days
thereafter and you don't need any more time, so you
don't ask the judge for more time, file an objection.
MR. GOLDBLATT: No, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: What's the problem?
MR. GOLDBLATT: It's just different from
what the -- what the statute says. What
the statute says is that in the absence of an objection,
the property claimed as exempt becomes exempt. And if
you look at 522(d) and see its description of the
property that becomes exempt, that language is clear
that it is the debtor's interest up to a dollar amount
in an asset. The term "property" here is subject to
monetary caps. It's not the asset itself. And the
statutory language in that regard couldn't be clearer.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If it's not the asset
itself and it's just about money, here I have a piece of
property and it wouldn't matter whether it was a case of
widgets or my grandmother's diamond ring. But
Congress -- this is a peculiar list it has. It has
personal jewelry, tools of trade. It sounds like --
even though those have a dollar cap, it sounds like
Congress said these are the kinds of things a debtor
would want to keep in kind.
MR. GOLDBLATT: Well, but those have always
been subject -- as this Court explained in Owens v.
Owens, those types of -- of -- of assets have always
been subject to monetary caps, and the same is true
here, and 522(d) makes that clear. Insofar as the
debtor would like to keep it, the debtor is entitled to
credit-bid at an auction.
I see my time has expired.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, thank you,
Mr. Goldblatt. I'll afford you rebuttal time.
MR. GOLDBLATT: I appreciate that, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Wall.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The government is not saying that it's a
coincidence that these numbers in the third and fourth
columns are the same. It is a common practice. A
debtor will often estimate what she believes to be the
market value of her property and then divvy up a wild
card across items in hope -- hopes of keeping them.
The government's and Petitioner's only point
is that where a debtor does that, as Respondent did
here, she's still claiming the fixed exemption of what
she believes to be the market value.
Now, I take your concern, Justice Ginsburg,
this might be unfair to debtors who wouldn't be
tipped off. That is not true here, where the trustee
came to the creditors' meeting and said: I construe
your exemption as limited, and I think the property is
worth about $7,000 more, and I intend to sell it.
And at that point, a debtor who really
believed that her schedule claimed full value would, it
seems to me, have said: You're misreading my schedule.
She didn't do that. She didn't do that until after the
30-day period had run when the trustee moved to sell
the property. Now, she --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What she did do, she
said: That unsettles me so much that I'm going to
withdraw from this bankruptcy proceeding; beyond
anything, I want to keep that -- that property.
MR. WALL: That's right. But she -- but
she -- she did walk in. She didn't say: You're
misreading my schedule. She said: I don't want you to
sell the property if indeed it's worth more than the
exemption I've claimed, and so I want to dismiss my
bankruptcy. Which she doesn't have a right to do under
Chapter 7. She has to show cause under section 707(a).
The Bankruptcy Court found that she had not shown cause,
and the debtor didn't appeal that determination, which
is not before this Court.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the -- but the
Bankruptcy Court did that simultaneously with saying:
And I'm going to deny the trustee's motion to have an
auction.
MR. WALL: That's right. And on remand, it
would certainly be open to her to attempt to convince
the Bankruptcy Court again that she had shown cause
under 707 to dismiss.
I think the government's point is that there
is a process for sale. So even beyond the facts of this
case, when the trustee wants to sell property, he has to
give 20 days' notice to the debtors and the creditors
under section 363 of the code and Rule 2002. So if the
trustee here had not even said anything at the
creditors' meeting but had moved to sell, he would have
had to give notice to the debtor, who at that point
could always amend her schedules under Rule 1009.
If she had any exemption left to claim, she
could walk in and say: I'm going to amend my schedule,
and I'm going to increase my exemption, because I
underestimated the property value. The reason she
didn't and couldn't do that here is because she had
maxed out her wild card. But it's -- indeed, even on
remand --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What she could have done
is trimmed some items from the list.
MR. WALL: And she still could on remand.
Even on remand, she could walk in and amend her schedule
and say: I'm going to itemize exactly the equipment
that I want to keep with my wild card. And I'm going to
say which of my kitchen equipment I want to keep with my
$10,225, and which I don't.
So, it's not that -- there's nothing about
Petitioner's approach that denies the debtor the fresh
start to which she is entitled under the code. She ­-
she can always claim right up to the legal limits. What
--
JUSTICE BREYER: That sounds very
complicated. I -- I mean, the thing that sort of
persuaded me so far on this is this is what Collier
says, the other side -- it's what all the bankruptcy
judges. Ambro is a bankruptcy judge. This is a simpler
thing.
MR. GOLDBLATT: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: Look at the procedural
rule. It's just what I've said. It says: If you have
an objection to the list of property -- the list of
property is C, okay? So here's what you do, trustee:
Sit down with the creditors. See if there's really an
argument. Now, if there's no argument, fine; they'll
let you do what you want.
If there is an argument and it has to do
with that list, C, particularly valuation, which is what
these things are all about, then file your objection.
That's so simple. And it seems in most places they do
it.
So why do we want to run around Robin's barn
or something to get somewhere we can get to much
simpler?
MR. WALL: Well, there are a number of
questions there, Justice Breyer. But with all respect,
that is not what the statute and the rules say. What
the statute and the rules say is if you have an
objection to the property claimed as exempt on the list
-- and as a historical matter over time, Schedule C has
required debtors to put additional information besides
their exemptions.
JUSTICE BREYER: But Rule 403 doesn't say
that. My Rule 403 says: "A party in interest may file
an objection to the list of property claimed as ­- as
exempt within 30 days after the meeting." Okay?
MR. WALL: That's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: It says "the list." So
that's where I think you're becoming awfully legalistic,
to try to distinguish between the list and the property
in A and B.
I mean, what do you -- these are about
valuation, says Collier. That's all we're interested
in.
MR. WALL: Well, it says the list of
property claimed as exempt. So, for instance, for
nearly the first 100 years after they set up the system
in 1898, on Schedule C and its predecessors the debtor
put down the location and present use of property. But
no one thought that the location was part of the claim
of exemption, such that if the trustee believed the
property was in one place than another, he had to
object.
The idea was we'll provide some useful
information to the trustee beyond the claim of
exemption, so that if he wants to file a turnover
complaint to get the property into the estate, he knows
where it's located.
But it just isn't true, as a historical or
logical matter, that everything that shows up on
Schedule C is part of the claimed exemption.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it also true ­-
tell me about this: One of my concerns is that the
trustees simply don't have time in every case to have a
creditors' meeting and go through every asset.
If they did, then Justice Breyer's
suggestion, where they'd sit down and talk about all
this stuff, would be -- would be fine. Am I right or
wrong in making that empirical assumption? I mean, I
just don't know.
MR. WALL: I think that's entirely fair.
They do have to have a creditors' meeting, so they do
have to -- you know, within 20 to 40 days of the filing
of the petition. But I think what will happen on
Respondent's approach as a practical matter is the world
will look no different; it will just have a lot more
litigation.
Whenever the numbers in columns 3 and 4
match up, the trustee will file a pro forma objection or
extension request. Cases will proceed exactly as they
do now. Property can be sold. Some will be returned to
the debtor and some will not.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: He has to. Otherwise, he
is at risk that it might be worth $400,000 or whatever.
MR. WALL: Exactly. And I think the reason
that it's odd to set up that kind of presumption is
because you're basically presuming that the debtor is
acting to claim an exemption in kind to which he is not
entitled under the code.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what does she put
down if she thinks this is what the property is worth,
but she doesn't know for sure? I mean, I don't know how
you would accurately value a bunch of kitchen equipment.
What is she supposed to do?
MR. WALL: Well, the debtor would do
exactly what she did here, and if the trustee went to
sell and she had remaining exemption left, she could
come in and amend her schedules and say --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that goes
through -- I think as Justice Ginsburg pointed out, you
have to go through a long process if you're going to
have an auction, and for this sole proprietorship, it
seems like a waste of money and time.
MR. WALL: Well, if the debtor actually
wanted to claim, say, full value or 100 percent of value
-- there are debtors that commonly do that. Since at
least Taylor 20 years ago, debtors on the form have been
writing down, in the third column --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's right.
I mean, this is a government form, and you say, even
though it says "Value of the claimed exemption" and
"Current market value," that these debtors should know,
oh, you should put in, as your friend said, put in an
asterisk and write something else in there.
MR. WALL: I don't even think it has to be
an asterisk. It's -- debtors commonly will put in on
these forms where they want to claim full value, even if
they're not entitled to it under the code, full value,
100 percent of value. The debtor in Taylor wrote down
"Unknown." Some contingent term that places the trustee
on notice that says: Hey, whatever the value of the
property is --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's much less
informative than if she said -- I mean, here she -- she
has one list that's showing what she paid for it. She
makes her best guess. It's -- you're suggesting that
she would be entitled to the notice if she put down
"unknown," "value unknown" or "value 100 percent."
So your -- on your theory, in order to do
what she obviously wants to do, preserve her kitchen
equipment, she has to give no information or inaccurate
information.
If she said -- I think what you're saying is
if she said a 100 percent, instead of saying what she
thought was the -- the value, or if she said unknown,
she would be entitled to notice from -- to an objection
from the trustee. But because she has tried her best to
put down what the form calls for, she doesn't get any
objection from the trustee.
MR. WALL: Well, I think, Justice Ginsburg,
the debtor does have a duty to report the market value
in the fourth column, what she believes it to be, but
the third column supports her claim and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- is that where she
would write 100 percent -- in the third column,
rather than the fourth?
MR. WALL: Well, no. She'd write it in
the third column because what she'd be saying is --
the third column is just subjective. It's just what you
want to claim, and, under "Value of claimed exemption,"
she'd say 100 percent of value.
And then, in the fourth column, she would
make an estimate as to what she believed that value to
be. And, in the event that she underestimated, she
could always come in and amend her exemptions.
I think it would be odd to read a form where
she cited statutory provisions that allow her to claim
interest up to a dollar cap and then she had put down
definite and fixed numbers to say to the trustee, you
should assume, despite the statutory text she is citing
and the numbers she is giving you, that she is claiming
an unauthorized, in-kind exemption, despite the very
statutory provisions on which she's relying as the bases
for her exemption.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would she --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, now, wait. Why would
the trustee object? I mean, he would still be objecting
to the valuation. You say that he has no -- no
obligation to object to the valuation.
But if she writes 100 percent of value
in the third column, that's what she's claimed, and then
values it at something above the exemption, right?
Above the permissible objection, he's still objecting to
the valuation, isn't he? No?
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, wherever the
debtor lists a contingent term in the third column,
whether it's unknown or 100 percent of value, the
trustee absolutely has to object.
It -- but -- but where the trustee doesn't
object is where the debtor does what she did here and
lists a fixed sum.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I see.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Wall.
Mr. Brunstad.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF G. ERIC BRUNSTAD, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. BRUNSTAD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Justice Ginsburg, your reading of the
schedules is completely accurate. There was nothing
more that Ms. Reilly could have done to indicate her
intent to exempt the property in full.
The bankruptcy court looked at this. The
bankruptcy judge sees thousands of these kinds of
schedules and made that determination.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But she could have said
"in full." You can't say she couldn't have done
nothing more. She'd put "in full."
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, Justice Kennedy, the
form --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or "100 percent of
value."
MR. BRUNSTAD: Justice Kennedy, the form
doesn't call for that. The form calls for a list --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now, you've said that
there's nothing else she could do, and I said, of
course, there's something else she could do. In Taylor,
the case you cite, they put "unknown."
MR. BRUNSTAD: That's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, I understand your
position, but you can't say there's nothing else she
could have done. That's -- that's the issue in the
case.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Kennedy, but
consistent with the form and the information the form
requests, she completely and accurately provided the
information the form requests.
And she -- as the bankruptcy court looked at
this and said, this is -- she's claiming the property in
full. The district court looked at this, the court of
appeals looked at this, all to the same conclusion.
Now, I think it's important to underscore
the purpose of the statute and the rules. They address
a very practical problem. We need to know, right away,
at the beginning of the case, is this property the
debtor gets to keep, or is this property of the estate,
which the trustee can sell?
We need to know this because, under section
363(b), a trustee cannot sell property if it is not
property of the estate. And if the property is claimed
as exempt and nobody files an objection, it is exempt
under 522(l). The trustee cannot sell it. Now --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if it turns out
that this business equipment was worth $100,000 and the
trustee looks at it and says, oh, she's only claiming --
you know, less than she's entitled, $10,000, and doesn't
object, she gets that dramatic windfall.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Just so I'm clear, Chief
Justice Roberts, if she claims that she -- $15,000, but
she puts a value of $100,000? Is that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, no, no. She --
she -- and it may be even in good faith or -- or bad
faith, depending on the rule we -- we adopt, but she
gets that incredible bonus because it turns out her
business equipment is worth a lot more than she put
down.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, if she undervalues her
equipment, for a hundred years, Chief Justice Roberts,
that has been grounds for objection. For a hundred
years, the practice has been --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, this -- the
trustee doesn't know. He doesn't know. He looks at it
and says, oh, that sounds like kitchen equipment might
be worth that, and so he doesn't object.
What you're doing is, I think Justice
Kennedy pointed out, you're requiring the trustee to
object to everything, lest he lose the $100,000 that it
turns out this is worth.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Not quite, Chief Justice
Roberts, and here's why: The trustee gets the form, and
then there is the meeting of creditors, and the trustee
gets to ask questions before the deadline actually
occurs.
Here, the trustee went and asked somebody
else, do you think this is worth more than she's
claiming? And, apparently, somebody said, perhaps it
is.
Then the trustee could ask the questions of
the debtor directly, and if the debtor -- if the trustee
needs more time, the trustee can do one of two things:
move for an extension of time to object or simply
adjourn the meeting of creditors.
The timing is completely in the trustee's
control. They have plenty of time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but the point
is, that drags out the whole process. You're imposing a
burden on the trustee. He loses everything if he
doesn't object, and I think the idea is that these
things move as quickly as you can, and you don't want
the trustees -- you know, I may be severely prejudiced;
the creditors might if I don't object, so I'm going to
object to everything; we'll sort it out later.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Your Honor, but that's
what the statute does. It poses the burden on the
trustee. The rule, Rule 4003, imposes the burden on the
trustee to object if the trustee has any grounds for
thinking what the debtor has done is improper.
Now, these schedules are signed under
penalty of perjury. There are criminal sanctions under
18 U.S.C. sections 152 and 157 if the debtor is engaged
in fraud. There are penalties under section 727 or 707.
The case can be dismissed. The debtor can lose her
discharge. This is very serious affair, stating this
information. The debtor here very thoughtfully itemized
all of the property, she filled out all the information
on the form, and she did something else, Chief Justice
Roberts. On page 28a of her schedules, she checked a
box that's required, and that box that the debtor
requires -- is supposed to check basically tells the
trustee: This is a no-asset case; there's not any value
left over for anybody else after you account for my
exemptions.
It's very clear from the box she checked
off, from the information that she provided, she was
claiming the property in full, the very property that
she wanted, her tools of trade to engage in her
business.
Again, thousands of these forms are done.
Here, the bankruptcy court looked at this and said she
was exempting the property in full. The trustee knows
this. The trustee sees thousands of forms. He had the
information that he claims forms the basis of his
objection well before his deadline passed, yet he
allowed the 30-day period to go by without presenting an
objection.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, when she put down the
figure $10,718 on page 58a of the Joint Appendix, what
did she mean by that?
MR. BRUNSTAD: In the last column, Justice
Alito?
JUSTICE ALITO: Yes.
MR. BRUNSTAD: She meant that the value she
claimed in full of her property was what she was
claiming as exempt. The entire --
JUSTICE ALITO: She meant that that was --
MR. BRUNSTAD: She held the property.
JUSTICE ALITO: She had -- she had figured
out the value of the property, and her estimation of its
fair market value was $10,718?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes. She very carefully
listed it, and a debtor in bankruptcy --
JUSTICE ALITO: It wasn't $10,717? It
wasn't $10,719? It was $10,718? That's what she meant?
MR. BRUNSTAD: That was her valuation of the
equipment, Justice Alito.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's not a realistic
valuation. Nobody thinks that that's an honest
valuation of the equipment. It's simply adding up the
-- the exemption she was entitled to.
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Scalia, because
she didn't exhaust --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's just -- her valuation
just happened to be exactly the amount that the two
exemptions she had would add up to.
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Scalia, she did
not exhaust her exemption availability. She had
additional exemption availability left over after she
took for her equipment. She detailed, she listed the
assets, she listed a value. And under our law, debtors
in bankruptcy who own property are considered experts
with respect to the valuation of their own property.
Shane v. Shane, 891 F.2d at 872, the owner of property
is competent to testify as to its value, is competent to
testify to it.
Here, the trustee offered nothing. There's
nothing in the record to rebut her valuation that she
swore under penalty of perjury was accurate.
She did -- again, Justice Scalia, she had
more exemptions she could have used. And if --
JUSTICE ALITO: But that's a -- that's a
totally different question. It's just -- it is ­- your
submission is that it is a pure coincidence that her
good faith estimation of the current market value of
this property just happens to add up, to the dollar, to
the amounts that she was entitled to exempt under the
specific statutory provisions that she cited in the
previous column?
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Alito, because
$10,718 is not her max. That's not the maximum amount
of value that she could have claimed. She properly did
what all debtors have to do. They are required to do
this under the forms. They are required to inventory
their property in Schedule B; they are required in
Schedule C to state a value, if in fact they know it.
And in good faith --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Now, can you elaborate on
this additional -- she -- you said she could have listed
something that came to a higher number. Are you talking
about the part of the leftover of the wildcard exemption
that she -- she used it for food, didn't she?
MR. BRUNSTAD: She used it for perishable
food items. She didn't have to use it for perishable
food items.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but she was maxed
out. Once she used it for that, she was maxed out, but
she wanted to have her cake and eat it too. She wanted
to get the exemption for the food and she wanted to get
the exemption for the -- for the equipment. And so it
just so happened that the equipment valuation added up
to precisely what was left over after she took the
exemption for the -- for the food.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Actually, the other way
around, Justice Scalia. She valued the equipment first.
Then she determined she had leftover, leftover exemption
ability, and she applied it to additional items.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But how do you know that
from the form? Number one, I think both sides have --
have an argument as to what the form means. I don't
think it's at all clear-cut. As I say, I'm looking for
some kind of a rule to tilt the case one way or the
other. All right? I don't put a lot of credence in the
fact that she -- the ambiguities are construed against
her.
I am concerned that in every case, under
your rule, the trustee is at risk unless he makes an
objection, and I think that's just going to make
bankruptcy proceedings much more protracted and much
more complex.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Actually, I think, Justice
Kennedy, the opposite. After Taylor, after this Court's
decision in Taylor, trustees understood if they had a
valuation objection, if they had concern that the debtor
might be getting a windfall, they needed to make an
objection.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but therein -- the
problem was triggered when they put in the word
"unknown."
MR. BRUNSTAD: That's correct, Justice
Kennedy, but that was the appropriate thing to say for
that particular asset, an unliquidated lawsuit. When
we're talking about tangible property such as cooking
equipment, where you can figure out -- you look at the
pot and you have an idea of what it's worth, you are
required to state that amount.
Now, I think, Justice Kennedy, a good rule
of decision is -- or a good principle of decision here
is that the exemptions are part of the fresh start in
bankruptcy, and we construe exceptions to that fresh
start against creditors, against the trustee.
JUSTICE BREYER: Do you have any sense of
how it works in practice? I'm a little worried by
Justice Kennedy's question, because the government says
in practice what's been happening is that in most
places, trustees don't -- they don't object to these
kinds of valuations problems, and now suddenly when the
rule has changed in some circuit, they do object as a
matter of form, which is unnecessary paperwork.
The impression I had from reading Collier,
and it was -- the opposite was so, that normally when
you have the creditors' meeting, things would appear,
what was a problem or what wasn't, and the creditor
would then file an -- or the trustee would then file an
objection. Well, what is the case? How does the
practice work? I'm -- I'm pretty uncertain. I'm not a
bankruptcy expert.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Breyer, there
has not been an avalanche of pro forma objections being
filed in these cases.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but how did it work
normally for years and years? You'd go into a committee
meeting of creditors. They'd get into an argument about
the valuation. I'm sure that happened.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And when that happened, did
trustees file objections within 30 days or didn't they?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: How do we know that? I
mean, I was impressed by Ambro. Isn't he the judge
here?
MR. BRUNSTAD: In the court of appeals, yes,
Your Honor. He's a former bankruptcy judge.
JUSTICE BREYER: He had been a bankruptcy
judge, so maybe he knows.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Certainly --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, I don't know who
knows, because I'm worried the government has looked
into this, and somebody's telling them who knows it's
the opposite.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Justice Breyer, under the
rules, the trustee has the burden of objecting if the
trustee has any basis for objection, including
valuation, and -- but the trustee has to have a good
faith reason for objecting, and how that is determined
is the trustee looks at the schedules, asks questions at
the meeting of creditors, a section 341 meeting, and
then if the trustee has any objection at all, present
it. If the trustee doesn't present it, you move on. We
have -- finality is very important here.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, under your rule,
the trustee has 30 days to get this good faith basis.
Does that mean that he or she has to get a valuation on
everything that's listed at full value, that that is
really the burden we're talking about?
It's not the burden of filing a piece of
paper that says I want an a exemption, or even one that
says I have an objection. It's what it takes to support
that objection and how much effort goes to that
activity.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Sotomayor, and
the trustee has had that burden for about a hundred
years. And under the former Bankruptcy Act, they had
much shorter deadlines -- 20 days, 15 days.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, there's a huge
difference between a rule that says you don't have to
actually go after this information in a formal way.
If someone's claiming only the exempt amount, then I'll
go ahead and I'll administer the estate, and over time
I'll talk informally to people and get a sense of
whether the valuation is right or not, but I won't
actually -- actually have to get a formal appraisal
because I'll just use my judgment.
Your rule would require something else.
They would have to get the appraisal to lodge the
request for an extension or to lodge the request for an
objection.
MR. BRUNSTAD: But they'd have to do
that in their motion to sell anyway, Justice Sotomayor.
And also in most cases it's going to be simple. The
most common asset that this is about is a car. You take
the car and you check the book value of the car, and the
trustee can do a simple, easy, expedient comparison.
It's a little more complicated when --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You mean in every single
case where an asset is sold, there has to be a valuation
beforehand?
MR. BRUNSTAD: In a situation where the
debtor claims the property as exempt, yes, and here's
why, Justice Kennedy: Because the trustee again can --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If -- if he claims the
whole property is exempt?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, if the debtor claims
the whole property is exempt, then it's not property of
the estate unless the trustee interposes a timely and
successful objection, because section 362 of the
Bankruptcy Code, which authorizes sales, only
specifically authorizes sales of property of the estate;
and if someone claims property as exempt, if no
objection is interposed under 522(l), then the property
claimed as -- is exempt.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: My question was ­- I
thought I understood your remark to say anytime there's
a sale, there has to be a valuation or an appraisal
before the sale.
MR. BRUNSTAD: If, in fact, the debtor
claims the property as exempt, that's correct. Unless
the debtor concedes, the trustee can sell it. That has
to happen anyway, Justice Kennedy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we know what -- what's
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that -- but the very
fact that it's -- that there's going to be a sale may
indicate that your premise is not true most of the time.
MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Justice Kennedy, and
here's why: because the statute, for example, points
that the court is going to determine in the first
instance whether the objection claim is valid, if there
is in fact an objection. How do we know this? Because
section 522(a) says value is determined as of the date
the debtor files for bankruptcy.
We do not have sales to determine whether,
in fact, the property is what it's worth. We determine
whether the -- that the claim of exemption is valid.
First, there's a judicial determination of value. It's
geared towards the date of the petition date. Why?
Because Congress understood that debtors want this
property, not just a check from the trustee. It's part
and parcel of their fresh start. As this Court
explained in Rousey and in Owen, that the fresh start
policy embraces the exemption. That is very plain.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm very confused because
of your answer to Justice Sotomayor. I thought what you
were saying -- she said, well, you only have 30 days;
you get all this value. That doesn't say very much.
You said, well -- you -- you said less. Okay?
MR. BRUNSTAD: I'm sorry, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: You said less time.
Which isn't much of an answer, but it's something. Now,
I would have thought you were going to say but it's 30
days from the creditors' meeting ending, and that's a
movable feast that could last 5 years. You could keep
postponing it. You can go to the judge and say, Judge,
give me an extension, which he'll do. So there's no
problem here. But you didn't say that.
So the fact that you didn't say that
suggests to me you're not certain about what this
practical impact is.
MR. BRUNSTAD: I am certain about it.
JUSTICE BREYER: You are certain?
MR. BRUNSTAD: I would say that, Justice
Breyer. I am certain about that. I have just --
answered one question, then taken off to another one. I
didn't get to --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. How long do
these creditors' meetings last? How easy are they to
postpone? How -- how easy is it for the trustee to get
this information together during the creditors' meeting,
et cetera, et cetera? Where do I look to find out the
answer to that question?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Justice Breyer, the practical
reality is that there are over a million bankruptcy
cases that are filed a year. Most of those are Chapter
13 or Chapter 7 cases, hundreds and hundreds of
thousands of them.
And that's why the box that's checked on
page 28a is a key piece of information for the trustee.
When the debtor says, this is basically a no-asset case;
after you take account of my exemptions, there's no
property left over for unsecured creditors ­- the
trustee looks at that. And as a practical matter, the
trustee makes a judgment -- a judgment call: Hmm. I
look at all the things, does it look right? If I feel
like I need to ask questions, I will ask them at the
meeting of creditors. Which is what happened here.
If the trustee then is still suspicious in
some way, then the trustee can seek an appraisal, and if
the trustee wants to get that appraisal, then the
trustee can ask for additional time to do it. If the
court thinks that there's perhaps merit to it, the
trustee will give -- the court will give the trustee
additional time. More --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Here I thought that the
trustee got the appraisal before the creditors' meeting,
because at the creditors' meeting he said to her, you
put down, what, 10,000; I have an estimate that says
$17,000.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes. The facts of this case
are exactly that, Justice Ginsburg. The trustee here,
before the meeting of creditors, went and talked to an
auctioneer. In the ordinary situation, it will happen a
little bit differently, where the trustee will look at
the schedules, and perhaps before the meeting of
creditors, the trustee might inquire with someone else,
but oftentimes the trustee might ask questions at the
meeting of creditors. And then if the trustee wants to,
if the trustee thinks it's worth it to get an appraisal,
then the trustee will ask for the -- for the additional
time to do -- do the appraisal, by either asking the
court for an extension or by adjourning the meeting of
the creditors.
But it's very important at the beginning of
the case -- there's a very important finality question
here, a finality principle. The debtor needs to know as
soon as possible -- and this is why we have an objection
deadline. The debtor needs to know as soon as possible:
Is this my property? Can I take this cooking equipment
and can I use it? Am I the one who is to insure it?
Can I conduct my business? Can other creditors lend me
money now, now that I'm going through bankruptcy and I
have my discharge? Or is this something that the
trustee is going to take and sell?
That is why we have this objection deadline,
to basically say to the trustee, if you have any
objections whatsoever about the debtor keeping this
property -- whether their value, or the statutory basis
under 522(d) is incorrect -- whatever reason it may be,
make your objection and we'll have a quick determination
by the court.
It cannot be true, as the trustee would like
it, that the trustee can sell at any particular point in
time in the future without having to make an objection,
because that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Brunstad, do we know
what is the division among bankruptcy judges on this
issue? I mean, you are urging that when those columns 3
and 4 match, that's a tip-off that the debtor is
claiming the entire property is exempt. Do we know what
is the lay of the land among bankruptcy judges?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Not precisely, Justice
Ginsburg, because many of these issues are resolved by
unpublished orders. That it is very difficult to
evaluate and get a hold of. But I think by and large
the vast majority of bankruptcy courts follow Taylor in
this -- in this area and will say, well, when you list
the value of the asset, if the trustee has an objection
as to value, then the trustee must make the objection.
If the trustee doesn't make the objection --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, once again, Taylor
had the word "unknown," and this doesn't. And that's
the problem.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Kennedy, so the
courts have to apply the holding in Taylor to a slightly
different factual context. But most bankruptcy courts
say this is really the same situation. Because after
all, in Taylor, what the trustee was saying was that I
think the debtor is getting too much -- was getting too
much at the end of the day. And the same thing here,
the trustee is saying: I think the debtor is getting
too much; it may be worth more.
But if the debtor thinks there's a
problem with the valuation -- again, make an objection,
because we need to have that finality. Finality was a
key concept in --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You mean if the trustee
thinks there's a problem?
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Justice Kennedy, thank
you for correcting me. If the trustee thinks there is a
problem, the trustee has to make an objection. We get
that finality taken care of, and then we can move on.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, in -- what's
interesting is that all of the circuits or most, the
majority, have not announced the fixed rule. The rule
they've said is: It depends on the circumstances.
And so it appears to me that most of the courts are
saying to us: We don't want a default rule, because we
have to see what has happened and see what has happened
between the parties to determine in one situation rather
than another what the intent was.
It's not an irrational rule. Why shouldn't
we be considering that as an alternative? Because once
we make an announcement like the one that you're
proposing, it is an inducement to undervalue your
property, for a debtor, because -- in the hopes that an
overly worked trustee won't have either the time or
opportunity or wherewithal to understand that the value
is off and that they're going to lose something that the
estate is entitled to.
MR. BRUNSTAD: I can see that, Justice
Sotomayor, but I think that here are much worse
incentives with the trustee's rule, and much worse
problems, much greater harm to the statutory scheme.
Now, Your Honor's question about these court
of appeals' decisions -- I think a lot of them are
driven by the following, which has since been cured by
an amendment to the rule. A lot of them involve
situations where the court of appeals was thinking ­-
and looking at the record and thinking the debtor was
engaging in some kind of misrepresentation or
manipulation. And, as Justice Stevens pointed out in
his concurrence in Taylor, you know, there is this ­-
what about this problem? Are there 105 powers? Are
there -- is there authority for the bankruptcy court to
basically act, if you have a basically bad-acting
debtor?
Now the current version of Rule 4003 makes
an exception for fraud. If there were bad things that
happened, that's been taken care of now under the rule.
But we shouldn't assume that and certainly not in this
case. Ms. Reilly was perfectly honest and
straightforward. She set forth everything that the
forms required. The really --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. There are
comparable circuit court opinions and situations very
analogous to this one, where the circuit courts have
looked at what the trustee and the debtor have done
during the process.
And if the debtor has not made it clear that
they're seeking the full value of the property, as
happened here, there was a conversation that the value
was off, the debtor did not tell the trustee that she
was claiming the full amount of the property. And there
are analogous situations where the circuits have said,
no, that doesn't show your intent because you didn't
articulate it to the trustee in the informal meetings.
That's not an irrational conclusion by those
circuits.
MR. BRUNSTAD: It's not an irrational
conclusion, except it is one that is contrary to the
statutory scheme. It basically says to the trustee, you
need not object by the 30 days, if you want to sell the
property.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. What it says is, if
you're engaged in good faith negotiation over a value or
over the claimed exemption, you should -- both sides
should be open about it.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, but, Justice Sotomayor,
it is the filing of the objection that triggers the
negotiation, and this is key. This is -- this is really
quite key because the practice is that, if the trustee
exempts to the -- exempts -- sorry -- objects to the
valuation, then there is a court hearing, and the court
will resolve the objection if the parties can't
negotiate it afterwards.
And if you look --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Most of these cases, the
objections are -- the discussions are not at the time of
objection. They are at the time of the creditors'
meeting. It is part of the discussion. That's what the
courts are looking to. What's happening between the
parties? Have they made their intent clear, and what
does that intent reflect?
MR. BRUNSTAD: But if there is no objection,
then is no involvement of the court, and the
conversation stops. And the reason why you have the
objection is because the trustee has the burden of
coming forward and demonstrating that the debtor's
valuation is wrong. And that's important because when
the trustee is now saying, oh, I just need to sell, I
don't have to object, the trustee is evading his burden
of proof.
By just simply saying, I'm authorized to
sell, I am going to sell, as long as it is not the
debtor who doesn't object. The trustee's proposal
inverts the burden of proof.
It's now under the trustee's proposal, when
the trustee files a motion to sell, the debtor has to
come forward and object and now say, wait, I have a
valuable exemption here.
What -- what the trustee then has done is
simply said, I don't have to comply with my burden of
proof that's set by the rule and the statute. After
all, section 522(l) puts the burden on the trustee, as
well, to object.
So they are inverting the burden of proof,
and Congress and rules have put the burden of proof
completely in the opposite way. And, again, we need
that -- we need that finality.
The trustee would basically have, under his
proposal, an ability to file a motion to sell a year
later, 2 years later, 4 years later, by reopening a
case that's been closed, if the trustee thought that.
Our whole point about finality, which was a
key principle animating the decision below and also this
Court's decision in Taylor, where the Court made the
observation that, although these deadlines may yield, in
some situations, unwelcome results, they serve very
important finality interests.
The debtor needs to know, is this my
property? Can I use it?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this debtor did know
at the creditors' meeting -- she certainly knew that the
trustee was claiming the property was worth more than
what she listed it as being worth.
She could have, at that point -- so she had
the notice of what he was thinking. She could have, at
that point, said, I will remove as many items as
necessary to bring me safely within the limit. She
didn't do that.
MR. BRUNSTAD: That's correct, Justice
Ginsburg. Instead she said, this -- the trustee wants
to sell all of the property. He's filing -- he filed a
motion to sell all of it.
The trustee did not give her an opportunity
to do that allocation, which she would have had if the
trustee had filed an objection.
In responding to the objection, she could
have said, well, I'm only going to allocate something,
because the objection would have been under the
exemption rules; whereas, the trustee, when the trustee
filed the motion to sell, it was under 363, which is the
motion to sell rules, where the debtor would then have
had to come forward and object to the motion for some
reason, but, again, you don't have that allocation
option under section 363.
And, again, the trustee puts the cart before
the horse. The trustee cannot sell property, unless it
is property of the estate, and under section 522, if, in
fact, the debtor claims property as exempt, if there is
no exemption -- no objection, it is exempt, and,
therefore, it's not property of the estate. "Exempt"
means exempt from property of the estate. A trustee
cannot sell.
Congress set up this regime purposefully, to
have judicial determinations of exemptions right away,
and that, again, is triggered by an objection being
filed. That way, we know, at the beginning of the case,
does the debtor have the property? Can she use it? Can
she continue? Third parties -- can they rely on that?
Or is this something the trustee is going to be able to
sell?
Now, it's important also because the
practice, in bankruptcy, as reflected in the Collier
forms, is that the bankruptcy court can make a judicial
determination. Say, for example, the bankruptcy court
here had said: I think there is some merit to the
trustee's objection; the property is worth $12,000.
The practice, as reflected in the sample form, is for
the court then to say to the debtor: Debtor, if you
want to keep this property, give the trustee a check for
the difference between what you're entitled to claim and
what I'm establishing the value to be.
That can happen if an objection to the
exemption is filed, and we're under section 522
exemptions. That can't happen if we're under section
362 sales.
So, again, the trustee's rule eliminates
that established practice and that established option in
favor of the debtor. Also, the debtor could say --
could reallocate -- the debtor has the right, under the
rules, under Rule 1009, to reallocate her -- her
exemptions after the trustee has -- she could have
sacrificed some other area or something and taken --
taken her additional exemption availability somewhere
and applied it.
All those options are foreclosed, where the
trustee doesn't file an objection and the trustee moves
to sell instead.
Now -- I see my time has not expired. If
there are no further questions?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. BRUNSTAD: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, Mr. Goldblatt,
2 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CRAIG G. GOLDBLATT
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. GOLDBLATT: Thank you. I have two
points, one practical and one about what the forms here
mean. First, as a practical matter, the task of
liquidating and selling the -- the assets of the
estates is the work that is done throughout
bankruptcy case.
Mr. Brunstad's suggestion that,
historically, that there was -- the deadline applied to
the work of liquidating the estate is simply incorrect.
And, in response to Justice Breyer's
question, you asked, where do I turn to find out how
hard it is to simply extend the deadline? The answer to
that question, with respect to the 341 meeting, is page
7-7 of the U.S. Trustees' Manual, which says, quite
clearly, that such extensions should be granted only
under exceptional circumstances, and the trustee should
not continue the 341 meeting when the debtor appears at
that meeting.
So that we have a real practical problem
of basically undermining Congress's judgment about
giving the trustee adequate time to liquidate the assets
for the benefit of creditors.
With respect to what these schedules mean
and whether the debtor was claiming an in-kind
exemption, Chief Justice Roberts, you had it right when
you said -- you know, when the debtor files what the
value of the property is worth is unclear, the debtor
doesn't know, when they file, what this will obtain at
auction.
The debtor is giving an estimate. The
question is whether one should read these forms to say,
if it turns out that my estimate is wrong, I want that
anyway, or if the -- or if you should read these forms
to say, if it turns out that my estimate is wrong, all I
want is what Congress gave me.
And we think that one shouldn't lightly
impute to the debtor a claim to be making an improper
and unlawful claim to keep the thing itself, when
Congress quite clearly gave the debtor a monetary
interest.
And, finally, with respect to the question
of allocation, the debtor can, at any time, Justice
Ginsburg, reallocate, including after the motion to
sell, their schedules. Rule 1009 says you can amend as
a matter of course. So there is still the opportunity to
give the debtor exactly what Congress intended.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:03 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
agrees 13:20 anytime 44:12 25:21 40:1 37:6 39:13
60:15 36:8,13,16 33:22 58:19 59:11 46:21 48:19
allocation 56:4 41:16 51:18,21 52:8 57:8,9 58:21
allow 29:13 APPEARAN... 25:25 bases 29:19
35:20 appears 18:3,6 27:20,22 35:5 47:2
51:5 appendix 4:6 attempt 22:2 53:4 55:3
39:8 applied 39:1 8:12,17 16:11 basis 4:20 10:4
29:11 60:9 47:18 48:6,8 authority 52:2 48:11 57:1
amendment approach 23:5 54:11 1:21 2:4,6,9,12
38:8 39:1 amount 3:17 5:4 area 49:19 58:2 14:22 9:16 10:17
48:7 5:9 6:2 9:17 argue 14:1 availability 37:2believed 5:8
10:17 11:2,4 argument 1:12 37:3 58:3 21:3 25:7 29:9
36:24 37:25 18:3 20:5 awfully 24:20 20:14,20 28:23
52:21 30:16 39:4 benefit 59:12
50:22 asks 42:5 bad-acting 52:3 bit 48:1
30:24
17:25 C 2:1 3:1,11,22 43:16 45:12 53:9 columns 15:15
4:6 18:15 57:14 claiming 5:4 15:16 20:13
23:9,16 23:19,24 24:11 checked 35:3,9 6:16,17,21 26:9 49:10
25:4,17 38:5 46:25 10:10 14:13,19 come 8:12,21
41:2,5 cake 38:17 Chief 3:3,8 6:9 15:18 20:19 12:1 17:13
call 31:10 47:6 6:14,19 19:25 29:17 31:25 27:4 29:11
45:16 called 18:15 20:4,9 26:21 32:16 33:22 54:17 56:12
46:9 calls 28:19 31:10 27:5,15 30:14 35:11 36:5 comes 14:18
cap 19:14 29:14 30:18 32:14,19 43:2 49:12 coming 54:6
car 43:15,16,16 33:15 34:6 59:14 common 12:8
30:15,16 cart 56:15 circuits 17:19 clarify 10:24 52:13
31:5,9 case 3:4,10 8:21 50:21 52:22 clear 4:12,12 9:3 comparison
32:19 12:13,16,24,25 53:1 9:5,11 14:11 43:17
34:14 13:3,9 14:10 circumstances 19:3,21 32:19 compelling 15:7
36:3,7 14:11 19:10 50:23 59:6 35:9 52:17 15:7
22:7 25:20 cite 31:14 53:25 competent 37:9
38:12 31:14,19 32:6 cited 29:13 clearer 19:7 37:9
39:15,24 34:23 35:6 37:22 clearly 10:20 complaint 25:13
39:6,10 40:24 citing 29:16 11:19 15:4 completely
42:20 43:20 47:2,22 claim 3:12,18 17:9 59:5 60:4 30:21 31:22
44:2 48:12 52:9 4:21 5:24 6:2 clear-cut 39:5 34:4 55:1
45:21 55:6 57:1 6:23,25 7:1,15 closed 55:6 complex 39:14
58:21 60:13,14 8:4 9:18 10:9 clue 15:17 complicated
49:8,14 cases 26:11 41:4 10:10,16,19,20 code 6:8 13:12 23:10 43:18
51:13 43:14 46:22,23 11:16 14:22 22:9 23:6 comply 54:20
54:2 53:20 16:15,20,21,24 26:20 27:24 concedes 44:17
58:11 cause 21:18,19 22:14 23:7 44:6 concept 50:13
certain 46:6,8,9 27:11,23 28:24 coincidence 6:10 15:11,13 20:21
42:1,14 11:7 22:2 claimed 3:10,23 24:24 40:19 concerns 25:19
54:5 41:20 52:8 3:24 4:3,8,10 57:7 conclusion 32:2
55:16 4:16,18 7:12 column 3:11,16 52:25 53:3
cetera 46:18,18 7:22,24 17:1 4:7,8,11 7:8,9 concurrence
32:15 33:1 changed 40:17 24:10,16 25:2 11:19 14:19 conduct 48:18
48:18 Chapter 21:18 25:17 27:17 27:14 28:23,24 confused 45:16
45:11 20:10 21:19,21 d 3:1 4:20 debtors 6:1 7:13 10:14 12:21
56:23 21:23 22:3 date 45:4,10,10 20:22 22:8 18:23 26:7
60:4,11 30:19,24 31:24 day 50:7 24:12 27:12,13 37:17 50:3
41:16 45:1,13 24:17 26:4 38:2 45:11 difficult 49:16
52:2,13 53:16 53:5 12:21 13:14 disagreement
50:2,3,24 deadlines 42:23 39:17 40:7,7 discussion 53:23
Court's 39:16 debtor 3:10 4:14 decisions 51:18 53:21
cover 5:5 8:6,7,11,14 9:4 default 50:25 22:4
2:11 3:6 58:14 10:2,5 12:11 demonstrating disputes 8:11
creditors 9:22 14:25 15:8,11 deny 21:24 distribute 13:16
26:3 33:17 20:14,18 21:2 32:24 doing 14:1 33:11
40:21 41:7 23:5 25:4 describes 4:22 19:4,14 29:14
54:4 48:3,5,10,18 33:25,25 34:18 detailed 37:4 dramatic 32:18
11:22 16:9 credit-bid 8:10 39:18 43:23 31:1 45:9 49:2 D.C 1:8,15,19
48:16 19:23 44:2,15,17 57:9
39:24 critical 11:25 48:13,15,24 56:24 E 2:1 3:1,1
55:24 14:24 49:11 50:6,8 determine 13:23 easy 43:17 46:15
60:12 current 11:19 55:15 56:11,18 45:4 either 7:9 48:8
52:5 57:23,24 59:7 difference 42:25 elaborate 38:7
19:18 60:2,4,7,11 different 3:19 eliminates 57:21
estate 8:23 15:2 49:12 56:18,19 extension 26:11 finally 60:6
51:12 56:17,20 exempting 35:16 extensions 59:5 25:24
9:6,22 estimate 20:14 4:22 5:9 6:2,4 fact 12:20 18:18 58:18
11:5 29:9 47:20 7:4,12,22,24 38:5 39:8 fixed 20:19
12:14 59:20,22,24 8:4,10,13 9:7 44:15,22 45:3 29:15 30:12
19:22 estimated 3:17 9:19 14:23 45:7 46:5 50:22
26:20 13:10 15:24 17:1 56:18 follow 49:18
28:8,17 estimation 36:9 20:19,25 21:16 facts 22:6 47:22 following 4:23
36:20 37:19 22:14,16 25:7 factual 50:3 4:23 17:23
51:12 et 46:18,18 25:12,17 26:19 fair 8:5 15:14 51:19
evading 54:9 27:3,17 29:6 26:2 36:10 food 38:11,13,14
4:2 5:5 exactly 6:11,16 54:18 56:9,19 favor 57:23 31:10,21,21,23
8:1 9:25 11:4 57:18 58:3 feast 46:1 33:16 35:2
6:6 11:24 13:1,6 59:15 feel 47:7 39:3,4 40:18
13:22 16:4 exemptions 5:1 figure 11:21 57:12
7:1,5,7 22:25 26:11,16 11:20 12:9 35:23 40:3 forma 17:13,24
9:1,12 27:2 36:24 24:13 29:11 figured 36:8 26:10 41:3
10:16,17 47:23 60:11 35:8 36:25 figures 5:3 formal 43:1,6
11:3,23 example 44:25 37:15 40:8 file 17:13 18:4 former 41:17
14:17 57:9 47:3 56:24 18:20 23:25 42:22
16:9 exceed 4:25 57:19 58:1 24:15 25:12 forms 27:23
23:2 exception 52:6 exempts 53:15 26:10 40:23,23 35:14,17,18
28:12 exceptional 59:6 53:15 41:11 55:4 38:3 52:11
33:1,4,9 exceptions 40:9 exhaust 36:22 58:6 59:18 57:8 58:17
37:4 excess 8:23 37:2 filed 41:4 46:22 59:21,23
exempt 3:11,23 expedient 43:17 56:1,5,10 57:1 forth 52:10
48:16 3:24 4:3,10,15 expenses 8:17 57:18 forward 54:6,17
5:25 6:11,24 experts 37:6 32:12 45:5 found 21:19
12:12 15:15 58:8 filing 17:24 26:4 20:12 28:23
24:17 25:2 explained 19:18 56:1 fraud 34:22 52:6
go 13:13 25:21 greater 3:20 hopes 20:16 informally 43:4
21:3 46:2 34:17 huge 42:24 28:12,13 31:21
goes 4:25 18:2 guess 12:25 28:7 hundred 33:4,5 31:23 34:25
31:3,4 27:5 42:18 42:21 35:1,10,18
35:11,16 going 3:25 8:16 H hundreds 46:23 43:1 46:17
42:13 13:4,4 14:7,7,9 hand 14:6 46:23 47:1
16:10 21:9,24 handwritten 4:1 informative
48:19 8:21 17:18 12:3,11 instance 25:2
3:1,6 57:4 51:1,1 52:7,19 42:9 48:11,12 intend 21:1
58:14 Goldblatt 1:15 happening 54:7 55:12 intended 16:14
5:22 6:14,23 37:20 imposing 34:7 intent 30:23
9:14 10:13 harsh 14:3 40:19 intention 10:3
5:2,6,13 12:10 13:1,6 hear 3:3 10:4,9,11,14 4:11,16,24 6:5
9:3,9 13:22 14:5,14 hearing 53:16 10:19,21 12:2 6:17 7:1,2,7,15
10:8,13 14:21 15:22 held 36:7 34:18 60:2 10:6,16 12:12
15:13,23 16:4,12,23 Hey 28:2 impute 60:2 14:15,24 15:5
17:21 18:5,8 he'll 46:3 inaccurate 19:4 24:15
19:8 18:14,21,23 He's 41:17 28:12 29:14 60:5
21:8,22 19:17 20:1,2 higher 38:9 incentives 51:15 interested 24:24
27:6 23:15 58:12,14 historical 24:11 including 42:2 interesting
29:21 58:16 25:15 60:8 50:21
38:7 good 32:23 historically inconsequential interests 55:12
47:17,23 37:19 38:6 58:23 15:6 interposed 44:9
55:15 40:6,7 42:3,11 Hmm 47:6 incorrect 4:5 interposes 44:4
60:8 53:8 hold 49:17 49:1 58:24 interpret 11:1
20:11 27:16 Honda 14:12,13 incredible 32:25 5:3 38:3
46:3 government's 52:9 44:23 inverts 54:14
56:3 20:17 22:5 Honor 4:12 5:22 indicates 14:19 involve 51:20
60:11 grandmother's 15:11 20:3 individual 13:8 involvement
59:11,20 hope 20:16 informal 52:24
15:24 17:6,18,21,25 46:1 57:14 land 49:13 lodge 43:9,10
59:14 18:6,11,15,21 60:3 language 4:13 logical 25:16
53:2 20:4,9,21 21:8 20:16 48:24 large 49:17 46:14 54:12
49:10 23:9,16 24:7 Kennedy 13:18 11:13 37:5 9:16 10:22,24
38:13,14 29:22 30:6,13 39:2,16,21,25 35:7 37:3 53:19
55:21 30:14,18,20 40:6 43:19,24 38:21 47:4 looked 30:24
44:22 31:16,20 32:14 44:21,24 49:23 38:25,25 35:15 41:22
35:2,22 40:13 lend 48:18 39:5 51:22
20:5 36:23 37:1,14 kind 5:25 10:20 limit 55:22 42:5 47:5
40:6,11,13 kinds 17:24 13:19 59:11 lot 26:7 33:1
30:25 41:13,18,21,25 40:16 58:19,24
42:10,20,24 kitchen 3:12 4:1 list 3:24 4:14 M
43:13,19,24,25 14:17 23:2 7:13,14 18:1 majority 49:18
44:24 45:16,17 33:9 19:12 22:22 maker 5:19
59:10 46:10,14,20 55:16 24:10,16,19,21 11:15 25:25
57:8 49:14,23 50:1 26:23 27:18 31:10 49:19 manipulation
4:4 5:2 51:13,24 52:12 33:8 34:11 14:9 36:12 Manual 59:4
6:9,14 53:7,11,20 38:5 39:2 37:4,5 38:8 market 11:20,22
7:6,11,17 55:15,24 58:10 41:13,21 44:19 42:13 55:18 20:15,20 27:18
8:3,5,8 58:12,25 59:15 45:3 48:13,15 listen 15:1 28:22 36:10
9:3,9 60:7,12 49:8,12 51:25 lists 3:23 13:9 37:19
10:8,13 55:13,15 57:1 30:7,12 match 26:10
11:9,18 K 59:16,18 litigation 26:8 49:11
12:4,24 keep 9:12,20 knows 14:4,4 little 14:3 40:12 matter 1:11
10:5 15:1,12 25:13 35:16 43:18 48:1 15:21 16:3
15:9 16:9,18 19:16 41:19,22,23 located 25:14 17:15 19:10
16:2 19:22 21:11 location 25:5,6 24:11 25:16
23:1,2 32:7 L 26:6 40:18
58:18 moment 12:11 11:12 17:13 objects 4:16 59:3
12:22 24:6 38:9 39:3 18:13 53:15 pages 4:1,6
money 5:15 19:9 29:15,17 observation paperwork
13:3 43:13 54:16 O 2:1 3:1 59:18 part 25:6,17
15:9 55:4 56:2,10 object 3:13 5:11 obviously 28:11 38:10 40:8
17:25 56:11,12 60:8 10:11 12:1,6 occurs 33:19 45:12 53:23
24:23 movable 46:1 13:4 15:20 odd 6:12 7:2 participate 8:9
26:23 move 34:2,10 18:12 25:9 26:17 29:12 particular 15:12
28:5 42:8 50:19 29:23,25 30:9 offered 37:11 15:18 40:1
31:16 moved 21:6 30:11 32:18 oftentimes 48:4 49:5
41:14 22:11 33:10,13 34:2 oh 27:19 32:16 particularly
43:19 moves 58:6 34:9,12,13,17 32:22 33:9 23:24
50:14 40:15,17 53:5 54:8 parties 10:7
59:13 N 54:9,13,17,23 okay 23:19 51:2 53:17,25
NACBA 12:7 objected 5:16 once 38:16 party 4:16 15:4
nearly 25:3 objection 9:11 opinions 52:13 pay 12:18,21
18:2 32:9 47:8 23:18,25 24:10 60:10 penalty 34:20
22:11 50:12 53:5 24:16 26:10 opposite 39:16 37:13
25:21 54:8 55:1,2 28:17,20 30:4 40:20 41:24 people 15:14
33:17 needed 39:19 32:12 33:5 55:1 43:4
40:21 needs 34:1 48:13 35:19,21 39:12 option 56:14 percent 7:1,7
42:6,6 48:15 55:13 39:18,20 40:24 57:22 27:11,25 28:9
46:17 negotiate 53:18 42:2,7,17,18 options 58:5 28:15 29:1,7
negotiation 53:8 43:11 44:5,9 oral 1:11 2:2 3:6 30:1,8 31:7
53:23 53:13 45:2,3 48:14 20:5 30:16 perfectly 52:9
59:3,7,8 never 13:4,4 48:22 49:2,6 order 15:6 28:10 period 21:6
normally 40:20 50:11,18 53:12 ordinary 10:6 perishable 38:12
notice 15:14 54:5 56:5,6,8 overly 51:9 perjury 34:20
no-asset 35:6 objections 12:9 P permits 9:7
number 5:25 41:11 48:24 page 2:2 12:7,15 person 14:2
10:22,25 53:21 35:3,23 47:1
33:6 40:12,14 proof 54:10,14 35:10 29:12 59:21,23
2:4,7,12 57:7,12,22 proper 3:13 8:5 provisions 29:13 10:9 11:10,13
20:8 58:15 precisely 38:21 properly 38:1 29:19 37:22 16:23 30:20
23:5 predecessors 3:23 4:2,7,10 purpose 32:4 readings 11:6
prejudiced 4:25 6:18 7:15 56:23 realistic 36:17
present 25:5 19:10 20:15,25 24:12 25:5 57:25 60:8
35:20 23:19 24:10,16 29:14 31:4,14 23:20 42:14
presuming 31:25 32:6,7 puts 32:21 54:22 11:14 17:15
17:6 10:6 26:17 36:4,7,9 37:6,7 56:13
21:2 pretty 40:25 37:8,20 38:4 Q reasons 11:12
34:6 previous 37:23 40:2 43:23 question 5:23 rebut 37:12
55:7,19 principal 11:14 44:1,3,3,7,8,9 8:6 9:9,10 rebuttal 2:10
principle 40:7 44:16 45:7,12 10:18 11:9 20:1 58:14
51:24 pro 17:13,24 49:12 51:8 18:8 37:17 51:22
problem 18:7,22 55:14,17 56:1 46:12,19 48:12 refers 4:18
40:22 46:4 56:21 57:2,11 59:21 60:6 reflected 57:7
59:9 54:15 55:4 47:8 48:4 58:9 regardless 16:17
procedural proposing 51:7 quite 15:4 33:15 Reilly 1:6 3:4
46:7,20 39:13 39:13 raise 17:4 remand 22:1,20
23:7 24:18 saying 6:3 11:1 22:9 32:9 showing 28:6
43:5 46:14 29:4 45:18 54:22 56:14,17 shows 25:16
Roberts 3:3 6:9 16:25 18:17,24 23:20 30:13 24:1 43:14,17
20:4 26:21 24:15,19,24 seek 15:6 47:11 23:13 24:5
32:14,20,22 28:2 32:16 52:18 simply 17:16
35:4 35:3 58:10,12 42:16,17,25 sees 30:25 35:17 36:19 54:11,20
40:5 59:15 60:12 45:4 47:2,20 sell 8:9 12:14 58:24 59:2
Robin's 24:3 53:4,7 59:4 13:21 16:14 simultaneously
13:7,11 rule 15:16,19,23 Scalia 7:6,11,17 22:11 27:3 single 43:19
15:22 39:11 40:6,17 38:24 56:1,2,10,11 situations 51:21
24:7 42:10,25 43:8 schedule 3:11,22 56:16,22 57:5 52:13,22 55:11
59:3,13 50:22,22,25 4:5 5:24 6:13 58:7 60:9 Sixth 17:20
51:4,15,20 6:16 7:14 seller 12:18 slightly 50:2
2:9 20:18 57:21,25 60:9 16:18,24,25 sense 16:3 40:11 43:20
rules 13:12 14:4 18:15 21:3,4 43:4 sole 27:8
26:6 42:1 54:25 24:11 25:4,17 serious 5:10 somebody 33:20
22:13 27:4 set 25:3 26:17 41:23
11:8,11,24 44:14,22 53:4 31:4 Sotomayor
sales 44:6,7 45:6 Schwab 1:3 3:4 shorter 42:23 17:18,22 42:10
16:13 57:20 section 8:21 show 21:18 42:20,24 43:13
22:1 sample 57:12 15:3 21:18 52:23 45:17 50:20
52:12 support 42:17 there's 7:20 thoughtfully 27:2 28:1,18
supporting 1:20 14:22 18:3 34:25 28:20 29:15,23
33:9 supports 28:24 37:11 44:12 35:14,17 46:24 32:10,13,16
45:13,14 sure 26:23 41:8 they'd 43:12 24:11 25:20 34:17 35:6,16
20:6 swore 37:13 39:25 50:7 45:22 47:13,16 42:1,2,3,5,7,8
24:8 T 19:15 23:25 59:11 60:7 45:12 46:16
32:4 T 2:1,1 34:1,10 40:21 timely 44:4 47:1,5,6,10,11
44:25 take 6:2,3 14:9 47:7 52:6 timing 34:4 47:12,13,15,15
14:16 20:21 think 5:17 6:6 tipped 8:18 47:18,23 48:1
17:15 48:16,21 11:8,11 14:3,6 tip-off 49:11 48:23 49:4,5
29:13,16 taken 46:12 15:2 20:25 told 16:13,18 49:20,21,22
37:22 50:19 52:7 22:5 24:20 tools 19:13 50:5,8,14,17
51:16 58:2,3 26:2,5,16 27:6 35:12 50:18 51:9
takes 42:17 27:21 28:14,21 total 11:4 52:15,20,24
tangible 40:2 50:6,8 51:14 triggered 39:22 56:16,21 57:4
19:5,18 31:13 39:16,17 thinking 34:18 trimmed 22:22 trustees 17:12
49:18,23 50:2 51:21,22 55:20 true 5:7 19:20 17:24 25:20
tell 25:19 52:20 47:14 48:6 trustee 3:13 59:4
tells 15:19 35:5 third 3:11 4:8 8:18,21 9:6,10 34:4 51:15
28:1 30:7 27:14 28:24 12:13,23 13:13 57:21
58:22 58:10,11,16 28:16 44:12 20:23 21:6 turnover 25:12
55:11 31:8 32:21 Washington 1:8 worth 5:18 6:6,7
17:19 urge 17:8 37:5,9,19 38:1 wasn't 36:13,14 10:17 14:8,12
36:24 urging 49:10 38:5 42:13 40:22 16:16,17 17:2
use 15:25 17:12 43:16 45:4,9 waste 27:9 21:1,15 26:15
48:17 49:20,21 51:10 6:15,20 7:19 33:1,10,14,21
U.S 59:4 valued 38:24 39:6 43:1 57:11 59:17
29:10 v 1:5 3:4 19:18 virtue 17:7 10:25 20:22
valid 45:2,8 W 47:24 29:1,3
17:21 12:2,2,6,8,22 22:15,24 we're 13:4 24:24 wrong 6:7 12:7
51:10 13:10,10,14 Wall 1:17 2:5 40:2 42:14 16:6,21 25:25
44:12 23:24 24:24 22:1,23 24:6 whatsoever wrote 3:16
29:24,25 30:5 24:18 25:1 48:24 27:25
39:18 41:8 29:3 30:6,14 51:10 x 1:2,7
43:20 44:13 9:1,20,22 11:1 wild 20:15 22:19 Y
20:6 valuations 40:16 21:11,14,16 WILLIAM 1:3 33:4,6 41:6,6
30:8 5:8,18 6:22 27:23 29:6 windfall 32:18 55:5,5
39:23 7:11,22,23 34:10 42:16 39:19 yield 55:10
8:22,23 9:20 45:11 50:25 withdraw 21:10 you've 31:11
13:16,17 14:10 wanted 5:23 $10,000 32:17
41:5
15:6 16:7,15 35:12 38:17,17 $10,717 36:13
20:20 21:3 wants 5:15 8:7 4:11 6:5,17
27:11,11,17,18 15:11,24 22:7 worried 40:12 17:1 35:23
33:13 7:11 26:9
32:20 41:11 42:11
363(b) 32:10
1:5 3:4
4 26:9 49:11
47:20 55:5
11:21 40 26:4
4003 34:16 52:5
6:25 7:7 403 24:14,15
27:11,25
29:1,7 5
31:7 5 46:1
22:13 522 56:17 57:18
60:9 522(a) 45:4
52:1 522(d) 4:22 19:2
1:13 3:2 19:21 49:1
60:14 522(l) 4:14,18
46:23 32:13 44:9
42:23 54:22
34:21 554(b) 15:4
34:21 57 4:6
34:21 58 2:12
25:4 58a 4:6 35:23
7
55:5 58:13 7 21:18 46:23
2:7 22:8 26:4 7-7 59:4
42:23 707 22:4 34:22
22:9 707(a) 21:18
1:9 727 34:22
12:8
35:3 47:1 8
37:8
891 37:8
1:9 2:4 7:8,10
