IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNITED STATES, EX REL. IRWIN :
EISENSTEIN, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-660
CITY OF NEW YORK, NEW :
YORK, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 21, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:17 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GIDEON A. SCHOR, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
PAUL T. REPHEN, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of the
Respondents.
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GIDEON A. SCHOR, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
PAUL T. REPHEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 25
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondents 41
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GIDEON A. SCHOR, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:17 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 08-660, United States, ex rel.
Eisenstein v. the City of New York.
Mr. Schor.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GIDEON A. SCHOR
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SCHOR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
For two main reasons, the Second Circuit's
judgment should be reversed. First, under Appellate
Rule 4(a)(1)(B) the government is a party in qui tam
actions because it is named, served, and bound and a
real party in interest, all without ever intervening or
actively participating.
And second, any participation-based test
party status will create a burdensome fact-specific
jurisdictional inquiry at the start of every appealed
and declined qui tam --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why at the start? Why
isn't the time the end, when we can -- the notice of
appeal is to be filed after there is a judgment. Why
isn't the proper time to determine number of days to
appeal when the judgment is entered? And at that point,
one can see that the government has done nothing,
absolutely nothing in the case.
At the inception, I agree with you, we don't
know what, if anything, the government is going to do.
But by the time judgment is entered, we surely know.
MR. SCHOR: It will be quite difficult and
burdensome, even upon entry of judgment, for a relator
or a defendant to determine whether the government's
participation was sufficiently active to make the
government a party for purpose --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we hear the
government did nothing, not one thing.
MR. SCHOR: Well, under the -- under the
active participation test, that may be. But the
question is -- is, will this Court be adopting the
active participation test.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The test is -- I don't
know what you mean by "active participation" as opposed
to just plain participation. If the rule is at the time
judgment is entered to determine how much time you have
to file your notice of appeal, the question is, has the
government done anything? And if the government has
done nothing at all, then you have 30 days.
MR. SCHOR: In -- well, to address Your
Honor's first point, the Second Circuit's test was
participation. The test proposed by Respondents and the
government is active participation, which narrows --
narrows it somewhat. We point out in our opening brief
that it's hard to conclude that the government did
nothing here. It did request to receive orders and --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So that's the question,
whether that's enough or whether the government's power
to prevent discovery, which it can do, is that alone
enough?
MR. SCHOR: Well, our position is that the
test is the wrong test. Our position is that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that. But --
but I'm saying there are various steps the
governments -- the government can take, and I -- I think
you have a point, that even though this case may be an
easy one, we're going to have to decide in future cases
how much -- how much activity by the government is
enough activity to make the government a party.
MR. SCHOR: And I think it will be a very
difficult determination for the relator or the defendant
for several reasons. First of all, the government
expressly declines to limit or define the circumstances
constituting active participation. So there will be a
whole series of legal determinations and possibly trips
to this Court to determine the content of the standard.
Secondly, there will be enormously difficult
fact-gathering efforts for the -- that the relator and
the defendant will have to undergo at the end of a case
after judgment has been entered. Sometimes a docket
sheet in a fully litigated qui tam action, declined or
not, can be a hundred or 200 pages, and the case will
have gone on for 5 or 5 years.
The standard would require -- the active
participation standard would require the relator or the
defendant to comb through the docket sheet to find every
instance of government participation to see whether, if
the docket sheet will review it, the participation was
sufficiently active.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You wouldn't have to
-- you wouldn't have to do anything like that at all.
He would just file before 30 days just to be on the safe
side. It's not like he's going to say, I'm going to
analyze this 100-page document to see whether I get an
extra 30 days to do something as simple as filing a
notice of appeal.
MR. SCHOR: Respectfully, I think that might
read out of the rules the 60-day period. But also, I
think it's a reflex among trained counsel always to see
first, as soon as judgment is entered, how much time do
I have to file the notice of appeal. So the inquiry
will have to be undertaken unless the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And -- and if the
inquiry says it's hard to tell, there's a 30-day limit
and there's a 60 day limit, I don't know of any
responsible counsel who wouldn't file within 30 days.
MR. SCHOR: If that's the position, then
that will read out of the rules the 60-day period. The
rules do contain a 60-day period.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why would that --
why would it -- I mean, it would still apply to the
government or any case in which the government is a
party, where it's not an issue whether is the government
a party or not.
MR. SCHOR: If it becomes too difficult to
determine whether the government is a party, then it --
then it would be very hard to imagine the relator or the
defendant who will feel able to invoke the 60-day
provision, and that would effectively make it a dead
letter --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, no, no, no, I
agree with you that it -- I'm just saying why in a world
would the relator want to invoke the 60-day provision if
there's at all -- at all a question about whether it's
30 days or 60 days?
MR. SCHOR: It's -- it's the case that
people read the rules and see there's a -- there are 30
days if the government's not a party and 60 days if the
government is a party. It's -- it's a function of the
rules themselves. If the rules say there's a 60-day
period --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there any advantage?
I mean, a notice of appeal is the easiest document, so
it's not a question that there's any labor involved in
doing this. But is there any advantage to filing -- to
taking the 60 days instead of the 30 days? Why would
counsel want to take advantage of the extra 30 days? It
isn't a question of a labor, having to write, like
having to write a brief. What advantage would there be
to taking the additional 30 days?
MR. SCHOR: If we're talking about relator's
counsel, sometimes in a declined qui tam action the
relator's counsel may wait to determine, may want to
know whether the government will be filing any sort of
amicus brief on appeal before determining whether we'll
go ahead with the appeal. And rather than filing what's
known as a protective notice of appeal, which isn't --
which isn't an optimal procedure --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How would the -- how
would you know at the time of filing of the notice of
appeal whether the government is thereafter going to
file an amicus brief?
MR. SCHOR: Relator's counsel is frequently
in touch with government counsel. And an important
factor in whether relator's counsel will pursue an
appeal and spend the money on the appeal is whether they
will have support in any respect from the government.
So sometimes it is the case that relator's counsel will
very much want to know if government -- if the
government will be making any sort of supportive filing
on the appeal, and that may take longer to determine
than the 30 days. Sometimes it's 60 days.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- yes, but --
you don't have to know that before you file the one-page
notice of appeal. I mean, if you need more time, you
can get more time, but you don't have to know all of
that. It's not going to cost you a lot of money to file
the notice of appeal.
MR. SCHOR: That's -- that's true.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if it turns out the
government is not going to come in, you can always
dismiss the appeal.
MR. SCHOR: That is true. I think it's a
suboptimal procedure to file something, to file a notice
with the court if -- if you're not certain that it's
going to be pursuing your appeal. I think it's better
to wait and not file until one is certain that one will
be pursuing the appeal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, anyway, a rule's a
rule and discussing all of these consequences is beside
the point. If, indeed, the government's a party, it's
60 days, right, and you say the government's a party?
MR. SCHOR: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And is -- is it your
position that the government is a party to this case for
all purposes, for all purposes of all the rules, or is
it just some of them?
MR. SCHOR: No, we are not arguing that the
government is a party only for some purposes and not
others. Our arguments are consistent with the view that
the government is a party for the case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: As opposed to the
government's view, which does sort of pick and choose
between --
MR. SCHOR: Correct, and Respondents' as
well.
If the Court, however, wants to rule
narrowly and just decide the Rule 4(a)(1)(B) issue,
whether the government is a party under Rule 4(a)(1)(B),
our arguments are certainly consistent with that as
well.
The government is -- well let me address one
issue that may be in the Court's mind or that the Court
may be asking. Well, Petitioner, you know, we have the
government telling us that it doesn't need the 60 days
when it doesn't intervene or actively participate;
doesn't that end the matter.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The government is not
saying it doesn't need the 60 days. It's saying you
don't qualify for the 60 days, you are not the
government. I don't think the government is arguing
that its own time can be shortened.
MR. SCHOR: Well, the rule is that if the
government gets 60 days everybody gets 60 days, even
private parties like the relator. But I believe the
government's position is that if the rationale for
giving 60 days doesn't apply, then everyone else
shouldn't get the benefit of the 60 days, either. I
believe that's the government's position.
We would argue that two factors detract from
the government's argument in that respect. First of
all, it's unrealistic to think that the government will
never need the 60-day period if it doesn't intervene or
actively participate. The problem arises if the relator
does not appeal. If the relator litigates and tries a
case with sufficient skill that the government doesn't
need to take over and the district court nonetheless
enters judgment for the defendant, the problem arises if
the relator doesn't appeal or doesn't appeal the
particular issue or order that the government would like
before the court of appeals. In that case, an amicus
filing won't protect the government's interests and the
government will have to appeal. And once it's conceded
that the government has to appeal, then it has to be
conceded that the government will need 60 days. That
is, that the rationale for the 60-day period is fully
applicable.
It's also true sometimes --it's not at all
fanciful that the relator might not appeal. The relator
might have spent a lot of money, time and money pursuing
the trial, and, having lost, may have called it quits
for purposes of the appeal. Or the defendant might say
to the relator: Look, if you don't pursue your appeal,
we won't file a bill of costs against you. There could
be all kinds of reasons why the relator might not
appeal. If the relator doesn't appeal, there will be no
appeal in which the government can make an amicus
filing.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So there may be --
there may be a lot of reasons the relator will not
pursue an appeal. I don't think there's any reason that
the relator would not file a notice of appeal within 30
days or, if he doesn't like 30 days, you ask for an
extension of time for another 30 days. Then the whole
issue is moot.
MR. SCHOR: It -- it may be, but I believe
that if Rule 4(a)(1)(B) creates a 60-day period, then
the litigants have an entitlement to invoke it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, your argument goes --
is replying to the government the Respondent's argument
that there is no sense in giving 60 days to the
government, and what you're saying is, yes, sometimes
there is.
MR. SCHOR: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Even when the government
has not actively participated. So it really negates,
you know, you're doing something that has no point. It
could have a point, to give the government 60 days, even
in a case where it has not actively participated. It
may need that long to consult with other agencies as to
whether to accept a defeat in this case or -- or on its
own to conduct an appeal if the relator doesn't want to.
MR. SCHOR: That's correct, and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can the government appeal
without having intervened in the district court?
MR. SCHOR: Since the government is bound by
the judgment, I believe that the government does have
that right. I don't have authority in the False Claims
Act context for that position, but I think it follows
from the conclusion, which is undisputed here, that the
government is bound by the judgment in a declined qui
tam action even where the government doesn't actively --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sure the government
will agree with that. I'm sure that's one of the
contexts in which they agree that the government is a
party.
MR. SCHOR: Yes, I think that's right,
although they can speak for themselves.
Now, the -- it's important also to note that
when the government declines to proceed with a qui tam
action, it might be declining to conduct the action or
take discovery or use its resources, but it's not
declining to get a judgment. The judgment gets a
binding judgment even when it declines. There's no
dispute that the claim is the government's claim and
that the judgment finally disposes of it. If in a
declined action the relator litigates and gets a $10
million award, the government takes the money. And so
the government is bound by the judgment. The judgment,
finally disposes of the government's claim.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But there are some
provisions that -- that seem to indicate the government
isn't a party. For example, it specifically provides
that even when the government hasn't intervened, the
government may request copies of the pleadings. Doesn't
it have to make requests for them?
MR. SCHOR: The government has to make
requests.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why would it have to
do that if it's a party?
MR. SCHOR: The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So you're -- I mean, you're
saying they are not a party for that rule at least, that
requires the pleadings to be served upon the other
party.
MR. SCHOR: No. But Congress can restrict
the operation of particular Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure. The argument that I think Your Honor is
averting to is the Rule 5 argument that my -- that
Respondents and the government make. Rule 5 doesn't
define who the party is. It attaches certain
consequences to being a party, but it doesn't define who
a party is. It says you get to be served if you are a
party. You get to be served with certain pleadings and
Congress --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. SCHOR: Congress restricted that right
in the False Claims Act. But that doesn't make it a
party. What makes it a party is whether it's named --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not following you. I'm
saying if -- if the government is a party, Rule 5 would
apply and the government would automatically get copies
of the pleading whether or not it requested them. So
the provision in the False Claims Act that the
government will only get copies if it requests them
seems to indicate that the government is not a party.
MR. SCHOR: The fact that ordinarily a party
might get served with certain pleadings doesn't mean
that if Congress restricts that right, it's not a party.
It means it's a party that Congress has -- for whom
Congress has restricted the right. And that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you think that
everyone -- you are relying on the government, that the
government is in the caption and it's a real party in
interest. Is every real party in interest a party for
this purpose?
MR. SCHOR: No, we are not arguing that. To
be a party, a real party in interest must be named in
the -- the actions needs to be brought in the name of
the real party in interest. And we've cited abundant
authority for the proposition that that means that the
pleadings must identify that person by name. If the
action is to be brought in the name of Smith, then the
pleadings must identify Smith as the plaintiff. So the
naming requirement must be complied with. It's not
sufficient in our view just to be a real party.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I come back to the Rule
5 point just for a minute? You say that the effect of
the False Claims Act is simply to restrict what would
normally be the right of the government to get copies of
all the pleadings. That's really not how it reads. It
doesn't say that the government shall receive copies of
the pleadings only if it requests them. It says the
government shall receive copies of the pleadings if it
requests them, as though without that provision it
wouldn't have a right to receive copies. Isn't that the
way it reads?
MR. SCHOR: It does read that way. I think
the addition of "only" is logician's language, Your
Honor. I'm not sure that the drafters --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's what we are
down here, you know.
(Laughter.)
MR. SCHOR: It may be, but not every
drafting of a statute rises to that level of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Precision.
MR. SCHOR: -- of quality. The attachment
of the condition "if it requests" I think goes a long
way towards suggesting that if it doesn't so request,
then it -- it won't, which means that Congress has
restricted the operation of -- of Rule 5. And -- and
there are a number of instances where Congress will
restrict the operation of Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure even when someone is concededly a party to the
case.
I have cited a number of instances in that
-- of that in our reply brief. There are a number of
statutory actions, especially where the government is a
party, where, even though it is concededly a party and
everyone's a party, the -- the normal party discovery
obligations don't apply. We have cited FOIA and EPA and
tax summons and -- and habeas is a slightly different
example. But there are many examples where Congress
will step in and restrict the obligations that the
Federal Rules would otherwise apply to people who are
parties without depriving them of party status.
I would like to address the intervention
provision. We have many arguments in our briefs as to
why the intervention provision doesn't determine party
status. I think that the simplest way from A to B is to
follow through to its conclusion an example that the
government gives. The government says that if it vetoes
a settlement, then it is a party.
Well, if it vetoes a settlement -- - that
is, without having intervened. If it vetoes a
settlement without having intervened, the case goes
forward because there is no settlement. But then if the
government wants to conduct the action, the only way it
can conduct the action under the statute is if it then
intervenes. So you have a case where the government is
already a party when it intervenes; and, therefore, even
under the government's example the intervention
provision cannot determine party status.
I would like to just go back to the
definition of -- of "party" that is in our briefing.
The -- several provisions of the False Claims Act show
that, even without ever intervening or actively
participating, the government satisfies the classic
elements of party status. It's a real party interest
because the statute upholds the government's claim and
gives the government the bulk of recovery. The -- the
government is named as a plaintiff in the pleadings
pursuant to the act's naming requirements. The
government is served with the complaint under Federal
Rule of Civil Procedure 4 pursuant to the act's service
requirement. And the government is bound by the
judgment, which is not even disputed here. Those are
the classic elements of party status, and the government
satisfies them all in this case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There is something odd
about -- plaintiffs come to the court seeking something.
Defendants are -- are stuck. They're being sued. And
here the United States is an involuntary plaintiff. It
didn't commence this lawsuit, and I think there must be
many cases where the government will say, we don't want
anything to do with this.
MR. SCHOR: I -- I don't think it's accurate
to say that the government is an involuntary plaintiff,
because Congress has said the United States will be a
plaintiff under these circumstances and -- and in that
respect Congress has spoken for the United States.
It is an oddity of the False Claims Act that
the plaintiff is served with the complaint, but that's
there on the face of the statute. And once it's served,
having been named and having been already a real party
in interest by operation of law, then it has -- it's
already a party at that point. And if it's a party at
that point, then it's a party for purposes of Federal
Rules of Appellate Procedure 4(a)(1)(B) and -- and may
be for other purposes as well.
I would like to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: May be for other purposes?
I thought you told me before that it was for other
purposes as well.
MR. SCHOR: Yes, it is.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Let's stay on track.
MR. SCHOR: Yes.
I would like to --
JUSTICE ALITO: It's not really a party for
all purposes in your submission. It's not a party for
discovery purposes, is it?
MR. SCHOR: In -- in our argument it is a
party even though it is not subject to discovery. There
are two ways one could characterize the government. One
can either say it's not a party for purposes of
discovery; or, as we say, citing authority in our reply,
it is a party, but it is for other statutory reasons not
subject to discovery.
The declination provision is key here. By
the declination provision Congress said the government
can decline to engage in discovery. All right. It
declines to conduct the action. One aspect of
conducting the action is engaging in discovery. The
government can decline to engage. That means not only
not serving discovery requests, but not responding to
discovery requests. And that's part and parcel of the
declination provision. That's the way Congress
structured it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is that? What
provision is that? I didn't focus on that.
MR. SCHOR: The declination provision, Your
Honor?
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. I am sorry. I didn't
mean to eat up your time with this.
MR. SCHOR: No, that's all right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, where is it in the
stuff that I have?
MR. SCHOR: Oh.
Well, it's certainly on page 2 of our
opening brief. It says: "If the government elects not
to proceed with the action, the person who initiated the
action shall have the right to conduct the action." And
there are other provisions that we cite in footnote 27.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but that doesn't say
anything about discovery in particular. I thought you
were talking about some declination provision that --
that said the government is -- is not subject to
discovery.
MR. SCHOR: Well, footnote 27 of our brief
also cites other provisions of the act that -- that
define what it means "to conduct the action." And
discovery is one of them, and the declination provision
says that if the government declines -- if the
government -- if the government intervenes, then it
conducts the action; if it declines, then it doesn't
conduct the action. And the rest of the act defines
what "conducting the action" is, and that includes
discovery.
so our -- our conclusion from that is that
when the government declines to conduct the action, it's
going to decline to engage in discovery. That's --
that's the argument.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and the fact that it
cannot conduct discovery also involves the fact that
it's immune from discovery, how do you get that? And it
is; is it not?
MR. SCHOR: Yes, that's our position, and I
think that's the government's position as well.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I'm sure it's the
government's position.
MR. SCHOR: It would be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But how can that -- how can
that be if it's a party?
MR. SCHOR: If -- it's a party who is
because of the declination provision not subject to
discovery.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The declination provision
doesn't say that. The declination provision just says
that it is not actively conducting the case. But how do
you get its exemption from discovery?
MR. SCHOR: Because the declination
provision says that if the government declines, then it
will not conduct the action; The relator will conduct
the action. And "conducting the action" is defined
elsewhere in the statute as including conducting
discovery, engaging in discovery. And it would be hard
to imagine Congress contemplating such asymmetry in --
in discovery obligations that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I agree with that, but --
but it's -- it's for me a problem with your assertion
that for all purposes the government is a party. It
seems to me it is not a party for purposes of discovery,
and there is no provision in -- in the -- in the False
Claims Act that exempts it from discovery.
MR. SCHOR: There is -- it's an inference
drawn from the statute, Your Honor.
In sum, we would ask the Court to reverse
the judgment of the Second Circuit, and I would like to
reserve the balance of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Rephen.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL T. REPHEN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. REPHEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and members
of the Court:
When the government declines to intervene in
a qui tam action, it should not be deemed a party for
purposes of the Rules of Procedure Rule 4. The
government's role is described in terms of intervention
as of right in the first 60 days following the filing of
the complaint and for good cause thereafter if the
government decides to come in after initial declination.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is certainly a
trap for the unaware, right? I mean, every lawyer loves
to win on a technicality, but --
MR. REPHEN: I don't think this is a trap
for the unwary. It is clear --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It says if the
United States is a party, it is -- it is 60; if it's
not, it's 30. And you have got a situation where the
United States -- the action is brought in the name of
the United States.
MR. REPHEN: It is brought in the name of
the United States. But, you know, looking at the
statute, where the government has declined, it's not a
party. Any conservative counsel, if there are two
periods of time, 30 days or 60 days, the intelligent
thing to do is to go ahead --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know, but this is
such a -- such a trap for the unwary that you never even
raise this point. It was raised sua sponte by the court
of appeals.
MR. REPHEN: And rejected. And I think
after -- it is hard to see --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, my point is if
it didn't occur to you, how can you claim that it should
definitely have occurred to your friend on the other
side?
MR. REPHEN: I don't know that it didn't
occur to us. I think we were trying to reject it, and
certainly after this Court decides the issue it would no
longer be a trap for the unwary. The decision will be
out there, either 30 days or 60 days.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question
about: Are there a number of circuits that follow the
60-day rule?
MR. REPHEN: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And in those cases,
suppose we decide your way in this case. What happens
to the -- all the appeals that have been taken relying
on the 60-day rule? Because I understand the failure to
file a notice of appeal is jurisdictional.
MR. REPHEN: I think those appeals will be
terminated.
JUSTICE STEVENS: All of those would be
terminated?
MR. REPHEN: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And what about judgments
that have been entered based on appeals that were --
MR. REPHEN: I don't know. I guess those
judgments would have to be vacated, the judgments --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So we are really -- in
several circuits, a really rather important decision is
being called for?
MR. REPHEN: Yes, yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why would the judgment
have to be vacated? Even a jurisdictional issue becomes
subject to preclusion once you have gone the appeal
route --
MR. REPHEN: That is true, Your Honor,
correct, yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So even the
jurisdictional base can be precluded and not raised on
collateral attack.
MR. REPHEN: You are correct, Your Honor.
Again, as I said, the -- what the Congress has done --
it is very important in this case to look at the
legislative history. Congress has given the government
60 days to weigh the risks and benefits of getting
involved in the case. If it chooses to do so, it has
full responsibility for the conduct of the litigation.
If it declines to do that, the
statute provides that the relator shall have full
responsibility for the conduct of the litigation and
requires the government, if it subsequently wants to get
involved, to make a motion for intervention, during
which time it has to show good cause. And it's our
position that intervention should be given its ordinary
and common meaning, which is the method by which a
person who is not a party becomes a party.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except that the government
here has considerable powers even without intervening,
and they include its ability to move to stay discovery,
which normally a party would only be able to do. It can
object to any voluntary dismissal or settlement, which
normally would be a party's right.
MR. REPHEN: There are certain --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And some courts have
allowed the government to move to dismiss.
MR. REPHEN: There is certainly a limited
role here, but it is a very limited role. The
government can do that. This Court has recognized that
it can be a party for this limited purpose. For
example, if the government moved to dismiss and they
have -- there has to be a hearing following that, and
that motion were denied, the government could not then
participate on the merits of the case. It would have to
move to intervene for good cause if the 60 days had
passed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So unlike -- unlike your
adversary here, you -- your adversary says the
government is a party for all purposes; you are not
saying the government is not a party for all purposes.
You're saying it's not a party for some purposes?
MR. REPHEN: What we're saying is certainly
it is not a party in this case, where it has quite
absolutely no role.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You are saying that.
MR. REPHEN: There may be --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But you're also saying as
for the rest, sometimes it is, sometimes it isn't.
MR. REPHEN: There may -- there may be
circumstances. If the Court were to hold that
intervention is required even in those limited
circumstances, that would be okay with us. We're not
taking --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How about -- I'm
sorry. Why don't you finish, counselor?
MR. REPHEN: We're not taking a formal
position on that.
I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, how does it
work in -- presumably, I guess the government can decide
that it wants to appeal the case in which it has not
participated below, right?
MR. REPHEN: It would have to move to
intervene.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It has to move to
intervene. So let's say there's a judgment and the
government looks at it and says: Well, we didn't know
we would get a decision like this; We've got to appeal
this. The relator doesn't want to appeal it. 30 days
goes by. The Government moves to intervene because it
has 60 days.
MR. REPHEN: I think we would take the
position there is no longer a case, Your Honor. It has
30 days; the relator has not appealed. The government
was not a party during that 30-day period. 31, 32, 33
days, the case is over. I guess there is a possibility
for the government to move to extend its time under the
rules, but generally there would be an opportunity for
the government to intervene. As soon as the case is
over, it had not been a party, it had not chosen to be a
party, and the time has expired.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So for all the
reasons in the legislative history that you discussed
about why the government gets more time, those reasons
don't apply in that situation?
MR. REPHEN: It doesn't apply if there is no
longer a case, and if 30 days has gone by, there would
be no longer a case.
JUSTICE BREYER: What's -- what about the
case that they were talking about, so the relator's
pursuing a case, that case is over, and they're not
going to appeal because they don't have any money left,
whatever it is; but the government looks at that
judgment and thinks, oh, God, there's something wrong
with this one, I better appeal it. That's the
government lawyer speaking.
Now, they're supposed to have 60 days to
figure that one out, and you'll take that 60 away from
them because they'll have to do this whole thing in 30.
MR. REPHEN: Yes. Having not intervened in
the case, they had not been a party.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, because they didn't
expect --
MR. REPHEN: Rule 4 --
JUSTICE BREYER: The judge did -- the judge
did a surprising thing, which judges sometimes do.
MR. REPHEN: Well, the government -- the
government is given that opportunity to monitor the
case. They can come in. The government having chose --
JUSTICE BREYER: Would this be a solution
which wouldn't help you? You would say, well, there's
some factors here cut one way, and there's some that cut
the other way, and some circuits have said the
government should have the 60 days, and those cases are
already proceeding. So it's best to keep it where it
is, which is 60 days, and then suggest the Rules
Committee look into this, since we don't actually --
MR. REPHEN: That's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And it -- all right. And
the Rules Committee would looked into it if it's a
problem.
MR. REPHEN: The rules give 60 days to the
government when it's a party. If it's not a party --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I know. That's
repeating your argument. And I'm suggesting what would
be wrong with the view that you lose because of the
reasons I said.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You rely a lot, counsel, on
-- on intervention, as that's what makes the government
a party.
MR. REPHEN: I think the rules --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right?
MR. REPHEN: Well, we rely on it because
that was what Congress said. Congress has made it clear
using intervention --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The original statute or the
earlier statute did not use the word "intervention."
MR. REPHEN: But we used it in a number --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I forget the different word
it used?
MR. REPHEN: "Appearance," maybe.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Appearance?
MR. REPHEN: Is appearance. But Congress --
Congress clearly means that now in 1986. I think
Congress knew what it was intending. Absent any
legislative history that Congress intended to not give
the term "intervention" its commonly understood term --
and it's such a commonly understood term -- by which a
nonparty becomes a party, I think one should give it
that normal intention.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I really wonder
whether they didn't intend the same -- the same result.
If you think they consciously -- under the prior
statute, you would say the government --
MR. REPHEN: Our argument was --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The government would have
been a party?
MR. REPHEN: I wouldn't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Because you can be a party
and not appear.
MR. REPHEN: I wouldn't say that, Your
Honor. But I know in 1986 what they were attempting to
do is strengthen the right of private persons to bring
qui tam actions. For the first time, the government was
given a limited right to come in for good cause after 60
days. But if you look at the legislative history of
that, I think Congress intended that the right of the
government to intervene after 60 days was somewhat
limited, and they had to show good cause.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I -- I
pressed your friend about what's the big deal, why don't
you just file within 30. It only seems fair to press
you on what's the big deal with letting them have for
60 --
MR. REPHEN: The big -- I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- which also solves
the problem of the potential trap for the unwary.
MR. REPHEN: I think the big deal is that it
can open more questions that it resolves if you give the
government party status for this purpose.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I agree with
that. I agree with that. But what if we say --
MR. REPHEN: And I think Your Honor, I think
that, Chief Justice --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. What if
I say, or whoever is writing the opinion says, this is
only for purposes of filing the appeal? We don't decide
whether the government is a party in all these other
characteristics, but whether it comes to Rule 4(a) --
MR. REPHEN: I think the purpose of Rule 4
was to give the government time to make a decision when
it's actually a party and it has a right to appeal. It
should -- it is jurisdictional. It should be construed
narrowly. The purpose of the rule is to expedite the
process of appeals --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it should be
construed narrowly. I don't think saying whether it's
30 or 60 days at all implicates that principle.
MR. REPHEN: Well, if -- if the rule
provides that the government should have 60 days when it
is a party and it's not a party, then it seems to me
it's a bit more --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, yeah, but I
mean, if we assume you're right, then that's construing
it narrowly. But the whole question is that there's
some confusion in the rule about who's right, and all
I'm saying is it seems to me that it would be the
easiest thing to avoid any trap for the unwary with no
consequences on the other side, to say 60 days.
MR. REPHEN: But I think it wouldn't be
consistent with the intent of Congress or the intent of
the rule, which is to move appeals along really within
30 days. The exception is given to the government when
it is a party, when it has to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, this isn't going
to delay appeals, for heaven's sakes. I mean, there's
all sorts of scheduling rules about the timing of the
briefs and everybody gets an extension on their briefs.
This is going to have no effect whatever on how quickly
appeals move along.
MR. REPHEN: Then I would tell Your Honor,
you know, whether or not you want to give somebody a
break on that, it is simply inconsistent with the rule,
which requires the United States to be a party when they
have, as in this case, played absolutely no role; and
they are clearly not a party.
Again, turning to the question of the real
party in interest, as I think was discussed, real party
in interest is simply one who can bring the lawsuit.
Mr. Eisenstein is a real party in interest. A real
party in interest is not synonymous with party status.
Rule 17 describes real party in interest. Obviously
Rule 4 describes a party --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The other side acknowledges
that. They say, however, it's different when you have
real party in interest plus the party named --
MR. REPHEN: I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and these things are
styled "United States."
MR. REPHEN: Your Honor, I don't think it's
an accumulation of all of these bits of real party in
interest. Well, it doesn't really count, now the
parties named --
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, no. No, no, that's
-- that's unfair. If you are a real party in interest
and you are the named party --
MR. REPHEN: I think the naming -- the
naming --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You're normally a party.
MR. REPHEN: The naming is nominal. I think
the real question is to look at the intent of Congress
in terms of the right of the government to participate,
and I would point out, I think during the first 80 years
of experience under the qui tam action, the United
States was named but had absolutely no right to play a
role in the litigation.
I don't know that we should elevate form
over substance here, and I must come back again to what
we think is the critical role, which was the intent of
Congress in requiring intervention on the part of the
United States Government if it decides that it wants to
assume the burdens of party status.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there are certain
things the government can do, you concede, without
intervening?
MR. REPHEN: Yes, there are certain limited
roles. I don't know that that makes them a party for
purposes of the Eisenstein case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: If the government did
decide to take over, the qui tam plaintiff would remain
a party --
MR. REPHEN: But the government would have
primary responsibility under the statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So why shouldn't it work
the other way? When the government stays out, it's a
party -- when the government isn't conducting the
litigation, it's a party just as a qui tam plaintiff
would be a party.
MR. REPHEN: Yes, I think the standard is
intervention, and absent intervention by the United
States, it should not be a party.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except the United States
has a lot of power. Unlike the -- the government's
presentation here, you would not allow any degree of
activity on the part of the government to cause it to be
a party, even if it exercises all these other powers
short of intervening? It must intervene in your --
MR. REPHEN: No, we would accept -- if it
has to be a bright line, we would accept intervention.
We recognize, though, the standard that you can be a
party for limited purpose as --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, do you want a bright
line or not a bright line?
MR. REPHEN: I would -- we would --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you agree with the
government?
MR. REPHEN: We would live with a bright
line certainly.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you agree with the
government's presentation that it becomes a party when
it reaches a certain ineffable degree of activity in the
case?
(Laughter.)
MR. REPHEN: I don't know if it's ineffable.
I think the government was relying on the Devlin
decision, where there was some indication that there
could be status of being a party where there is limited
for participation for collateral purposes. But again in
Devlin, the government had argued that intervention was
the preferable method of getting into a case. The Court
rejected that because they thought intervention
essentially would be pro forma, but in this -- in this
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think they were
relying on Devlin. The --
MR. REPHEN: They were relying --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The point they are making
here --
MR. REPHEN: They were addressing --
JUSTICE SCALIA: --- is not that we're a
party for some purposes and not for others. The point
they're making is we're a party for all purposes, once
we reach a certain degree of activity in the case.
MR. REPHEN: I don't think the government is
saying they're a party for all purposes which is a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think they were.
MR. REPHEN: -- of activity.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We disagree on that.
MR. REPHEN: I guess we'll hear from them
shortly.
JUSTICE SCALIA: We'll hear from them.
MR. REPHEN: If there are no further
questions, then we can -- we can hear from the
government.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Wall.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
MR. WALL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I have a question for you,
Mr. Wall.
(Laughter.)
MR. WALL: I thought you might.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What is the government's
position on that point?
MR. WALL: I actually wanted to start
exactly where you and Justice Ginsburg began because I
think we've gotten off a little bit on the wrong track.
If this Court wants a bright-line rule, the
right rule is intervention. Now, that would solve 98 or
99 percent of qui tam suits under the False Claims Act.
The government urged intervention as a prerequisite in
Devlin, and this Court disagreed. So the government
left open the possibility in its brief that in a very
small number of qui tam suits, on the order of 1 percent
or less, it might participate, absent intervention, in a
way that would justify treatment as a party under
Devlin.
But whether or not the Court agrees with us
on that -- a question not presented here where the
government hasn't participated in any way -- the right
rule is intervention, and it's just a question of
whether this Court wants to make it cover 98 percent of
the suits or 100 percent of the suits.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you take the position
that without intervention though, nonetheless the
government could appeal at the -- at the tail end?
MR. WALL: No, we do not think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: You don't think that --
okay.
MR. WALL: -- that the government could have
appealed the judgment here as of right, and that is why
we think the purposes of the 60-day period were not
implicated. Because the government couldn't appeal, it
was not a potential appellant that required the
authorization of the Solicitor General, and it didn't
need the 60 days. And that's an important point, I
think, about why it couldn't just be solved by the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't it need the 60 days
to figure out whether it would want to intervene in
order to be able to appeal?
MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, I think that
would be equally true in a number of contexts -- for
instance, class action settlements where the government
is entitled to notice, presumably so that it can
intervene; government contractor suits. There are any
number of Federal cases where the government might find
the decision shocking and want to come in, but until it
does, it's a non-party.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But they are not statutes
which give the government an extended period of time in
order to allow the consultation. This is a statute that
does that. And why would they -- why would they not
envision the need for that consultation in the situation
where the government has had no participation but comes
up with a -- with a decision contrary to what it thinks
the good law is, and it has to decide whether it wants
to intervene in order to appeal. Why shouldn't they be
given 60 days?
MR. WALL: Well, Justice Scalia, with all
respect, the False Claims Act itself doesn't say
anything about intervention. It doesn't say anything
about 60 days. It just says the government has a right
to come in and take over the action and run it and allow
the relator to continue as a party. And that's why it
uses the word "intervene" -- because Congress understood
that, in its accepted legal meaning, as a process by
which a nonparty becomes a party, and the idea was to
give the executive branch a choice. In each qui tam
suit, the executive is able to determine whether to
assume the greater benefits and burdens of party status.
Petitioner is caught in the awkward position
of saying that he thinks that the government is a party
at the time the case is filed, not then a party for
purposes of discovery, but even though it hasn't done
anything, it's somehow a party again when the notice of
appeal is filed. And the government's position is that
just where it does not come into the case and doesn't
intervene, it's not a party for any of those purposes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- why do you
care? I mean, you're just giving people who might well
be confused by this provision another 30 days.
MR. WALL: I think there are two distinct
harms, Mr. Chief Justice. The first is to the
government, and the second is to Congress and the system
it set up in the statute. The harm to the government is
that, if it can be made a party under FRAP 4, despite
the fact that it has actively attempted to decline party
status, it could also be made a party under the other
rule.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay, but, again, we
would limit any decision to Federal Rule of Appeal 4
because of the dramatically adverse consequences for the
unwary. They lose their right to pursue their case.
MR. WALL: I don't think the government has
any objection in theory to a period of 60 days for only
FRAP 4. I think the difficulty is that any number of
rules speak in terms of parties. And Petitioners
advance no persuasive between FRAP 4 and other rules.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I just does
did. Under FRAP 4, you're out the door without any
hearing on the merits. It's a technicality. The spirit
of the rules is that we don't throw people out because
of mere technicalities. Now, failure to file a timely
notice of appeal is not a technicality in terms of the
consequences.
MR. WALL: That's right. Three brief
points, I think.
First, if this Court announces a 30-day
rule, that's clear going forward. Relators and their
counsel will treat declined qui tam suits like civil
actions generally to which the United States is a party.
Second, if the rules are better read for a
30-day period, because the United States was not a
party, you're entitled to appeal the judgment, then
Petitioner was not entitled to assume that he would get
60 days --
JUSTICE ALITO: What about the relators and
the parties in the four circuits that have adopted the
60-day rule. They had a court of appeals opinion in
front of them that said you had 60 days. They're just
out of luck now?
MR. WALL: Well, I think they also were on
notice that there's a long-standing circuit split on
this question which the court has never answered. Given
the fact that what you're talking about is a ministerial
task, filing a one-page notice, there are actually
Federal court manuals that instruct in this circumstance
relator's counsel to file within the 30 days.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sure that the
Appellate Rules Advisory Committee, when they hear this
decision, if they haven't already, will put something in
the rules about whether it's 30 days or 60 days. So I'm
not terribly concerned about clarity going forward.
It's going to be made clear by the Advisory Committee
and the submission of new rules, and I see no reason
that they wouldn't make it clear. I don't know whether
they'll think 30 or 60 is the best idea.
MR. WALL: Right, and --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's just a
question of -- in this case and, as Justice Stevens
pointed out, what the effect is going to be on other
cases. And it seems to me that in that situation, 60
days makes the most sense because otherwise you're
disrupting the system solely based on a trap for the
unwary.
MR. WALL: Well, and that goes to a question
that Justice Breyer asked earlier. The statute, 2107,
was enacted after what is now FRAP 4. The rule and the
statute shortened the period to appeal from 3 months to
30 days. And then the Judicial Conference, in the -- in
the -- what is now FRAP 4, drew the exception of 60 days
for cases in which the United States was a party because
of an express need for more time for the Solicitor
General to make a decision.
The Judicial Conference raised some question
about how we do that. Two years later Congress enacted
the statute putting in the 30-day and 60-day rules. I
think then that's a baseline. And I'm not sure that the
advisory committee could come back and effectively amend
the -- amend the statute by changing the rule.
What Congress had in mind when it passed
2107 was if the -- if the -- the United States is a
potential appellant and requires more time to conduct
its internal decisionmaking processes, it gets 60 days.
Otherwise, that 30-day baseline governs, and I
respectfully disagree, Mr. Chief Justice, that Congress
was not concerned about moving appeals forward
expeditiously. It shortened the period from three
months to 30 days precisely because of wanting judgments
to become final.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it is -- it is a
potential appellant. I mean if you say Congress is
concerned about situations in which the government is a
potential appellant. It is a potential appellant in
these cases until the 30 days have elapsed, at least.
It -- it can intervene, and why shouldn't it have the 60
days to decide whether to appeal or not?
MR. WALL: I guess -- and I -- the same
answer I gave earlier, Justice Scalia: That's equally
true virtually in any Federal case that might affect the
United States's interests --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand, but this --
this goes to your argument about congressional intent:
That they were concerned about preserving to the
government time as a potential appellant to think the
matter over. It seems to me that argument is -- is a
wash.
MR. WALL: But I think it goes back to what
Justice Ginsburg asked much earlier, which is: At the
time the judgment is entered, who is a party entitled to
take the appeal? If the United States has done nothing,
it's not a potential appellant. When the 30-day period
runs, the case is over, and the United States, if it
wants to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can the United States
intervene within those 30 days --
MR. WALL: It can intervene.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and then appeal?
MR. WALL: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think it's a potential
appellant.
MR. WALL: Well, it is -- yes, and it is --
it is equally true that it is a potential appellant then
in any case that might affect its interests. But we do
not commonly consider the United States a party to every
class action settlement or in every government
contractor suit simply based on the possibility that it
may want to intervene.
When it does so very rarely -- we're talking
about -- I mean that is the exceptionally rare case in
the False Claims Act, and the government is saying, we
can make that decision within the 30 days because we are
not a party to the judgment at the time it's entered.
And, again, I think what Petitioner strains to do when
he says at page 25 of his reply brief that when you
decline as the government, you avoid the burdens of
party status. What Petitioner can't explain is why that
is any different for the burden of appealing an adverse
judgment and the burdens of discovery. All of those
rules speak in terms of party status.
If Petitioner is able to foist on the
government a status that it actively attempted to
decline, as was its right afforded it by Congress, then
it seems to me Petitioner can equally try to foist on
the government, though it doesn't here, in future cases
party status. And this Court will have to decide case
by case: Is the United States a party for purposes of
each rule of civil and appellate procedure? And I think
that approach threatens much more uncertainty than the
approach the government is outlining where intervention
is a simple, workable, administrable test to determine
whether the United States is a party to a qui tam suit.
If there are no more questions, thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Wall.
Mr. Schor, you have three minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GIDEON A. SCHOR
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. SCHOR: Thank you.
I think it begs the question to say that by
its declination the government is declining party
status. It is declining to conduct the action. That's
a much more limited category than the category of party
status. The government is a party because it is named,
served, and bound, and a real party in interest. And I
didn't hear any arguments addressing why the
intervention provision is not determinative of -- of
party status in response to --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why isn't it also a party
under all these other rules?
MR. SCHOR: We -- we -- our position is that
it -- that it is a party.
JUSTICE BREYER: Under all of the rules of
discovery?
MR. SCHOR: Well, again, we think it's a
party although for other reasons in the statute that
it's not subject to full party discovery because of the
declination provision, which I discussed in -- in the
opening.
I would also take issue with the assertion
of Respondent's counsel that it's -- that it's their
rule that will be the bright-line test. Clearly, it's
Petitioner's rule. Petitioner says that the government
is a party in all qui tam actions for purposes of
Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(a)(1)(B). That
forecloses all of the jurisdictional inquiries.
It forecloses the -- the pending case issue.
It forecloses the -- the complicated question of when --
if the government gets a surprisingly bad -- if a
district court issues a surprisingly adverse judgment
when the government doesn't intervene, the government --
the government wants to intervene for purposes of
appeal. Certainly, first of all, the government -- that
-- that question of whether to intervene is essentially
the question of whether to appeal, and so it should have
60 days, given the rationale for the rule.
JUSTICE SOUTER: What do you -- what do you
say to the government's argument that they -- it -- it
may close these doors that -- that you're saying, but it
opens a lot of others under other rules? The government
says you're just asking for trouble under the -- under
the -- a -- an undifferentiated number of other rules if
we go your way. What's your response to that?
MR. SCHOR: I don't think it does. I think
-- I think the -- an active participation standard would
create far more trouble, far more complexity. It would
be almost impossible for relators and defense to -- to
know in advance what's -- what's required of them.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- that's true, but
that's not the point that Justice Souter was making.
This is a self-denying position on the part of the
government. You would expect the government to come in
and say, yeah, give us 60 days to think this over.
They're saying, no, we'll only take 30,
because they're worried if we come out your way on that
issue, there are other issues on which they're also
going to be considered a party, and it's not worth the
risk.
MR. SCHOR: Well, I think their concern is
that -- is discovery primarily, and we have certainly
put plenty of arguments in our brief as to why that
concern is -- is less and there is certainly plenty of
authority for -- for thinking that the government won't
be subject to discovery.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:14 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
44:10 act's 19:22,24 anyway 10:3 arguing 10:12
53:23 address 4:24 8:7,19,20,21 2:2,10 3:4,7 41:9
42:6 addressing 9:14,17,21,25 15:17,18 21:11 38:5 47:25
36:22 administrable 12:3,3,7,8,13 32:22 34:2 bad 52:9
50:22 12:16,17,20,20 41:9 48:24 balance 24:23
advance 45:14 27:17 30:8,15 arguments 47:10 49:23
8:11,13 42:24 43:6,23 arises 11:23 began 41:22
adverse 45:8 48:18 49:7,14 49:5 1:23 2:4,6,8,12
19:15 advisory 46:21 appealed 3:19 52:21 51:3
22:24 46:25 47:25 30:21 42:22 aspect 21:21 believe 11:14,18
24:18 affect 48:21 appealing 50:9 assertion 24:14 13:5 14:1
44:1 50:2 49:20 appeals 12:5 51:25 benefit 11:17
agencies 13:19 35:17 36:9,13 assume 36:1 44:11
19:7,8 agree 4:3 7:21 36:17 46:10 38:9 44:11 best 32:12 47:3
22:15 14:8,9 24:13 48:8 46:6 better 9:25
35:3,4 39:17 appear 34:7 asymmetry 31:17 46:3
24:7 39:21 appearance 24:11 big 34:18,20,22
25:6,20 agrees 42:9 33:13,14,15 attaches 15:20 34:25
43:9 44:4 ahead 8:20 26:2 APPEARAN... attachment 18:1 bill 12:18
51:7 AL 1:8 1:16 attack 27:23 binding 14:18
18:12 46:8 48:4,13,15,15 50:13 bits 37:13
46:2 allow 39:6 43:17 49:1,8,17,19 attempting 34:9 bound 3:14
44:4 appellate 3:12 authority 14:2 13:25 14:5,23
5:2,23 6:8 amend 47:25 50:19 52:5 53:18 branch 44:9
52:25 48:1 applicable 12:11 authorization break 36:20
13:15 8:19 9:1 12:5 16:6 18:15,19 automatically 32:2,7,16,21
14:6 12:21 41:11 31:7,8 16:6 47:13 51:14,18
24:3 analyze 6:18 approach 50:20 averting 15:18 brief 5:3 8:13,19
50:13 announces 50:21 avoid 36:5 50:7 9:1 18:11
42:4 43:12 47:8,18 circumstance common 28:13 48:13 50:14
50:6 48:16 50:16 46:18 commonly congressional
category 51:8,8 circumstances 33:19,20 49:21 48:24
28:11 29:7 cite 22:17 complexity 53:1 consequences
certain 9:24 18:10,15 52:8 36:6 45:8,21
52:2 16:12 28:21 citing 21:15 concede 38:11 25:25
25:20,22 certainly 10:24 19:24 46:1 18:13 28:16
50:7,10 52:13 53:15,17 26:10 48:8,14,25 10:24 36:8
4:7 characteristics 16:2,8 17:8 conclusion 14:4 5:23
19:15 20:16 18:25 23:8 construed 35:15
7:2,9,20 9:12 class 43:9 49:22 21:21 22:16,25 consultation
7:11,25 30:12 31:4 45:25 46:25 conducting 24:11
10:9,15 34:17,23 35:3 47:2 21:22 23:6 content 5:25
12:5 35:6,7,18,25 clearly 33:16 24:3,8,9 38:23 context 14:3
18:9 36:12 41:7,13 36:23 52:2 conducts 23:4 contexts 14:9
20:3 44:20,24 45:6 close 52:19 Conference 43:8
26:23 45:15 46:20 collateral 27:23 47:16,21 continue 44:5
29:6,15 47:5 48:7 40:5 confused 44:22 contractor
50:25 53:20 comb 6:10 confusion 36:3 43:11 49:23
choice 44:9 come 9:20 17:6 Congress 15:15 contrary 43:21
choose 10:17 20:5 25:11 15:24 16:1,13 copies 15:4 16:6
36:22 chooses 28:4 32:6 34:12 16:14,15 18:4 16:9 17:9,11
39:24 chose 32:6 38:5 43:13 18:6,17 20:13 17:13,15
44:14 chosen 31:2 44:4,18 47:25 20:15 21:19 correct 10:7,19
45:9 circuit 24:22 53:7,10 22:1 24:11 13:13,22 27:20
48:21 46:14 comes 35:11 27:25 28:2 27:24
50:1 circuits 26:19 43:20 33:6,6,15,16 cost 9:16
52:7 27:12 32:10 commence 20:8 33:17,18 34:14 costs 12:18
46:9 committee 36:8 37:23 counsel 6:23 7:5
32:11 4:25 46:25 47:25 47:22 48:2,7 9:3,4,7 24:24
30:6 43:24 44:3,22 Defendants 20:6 22:19,22 23:1 47:25
34:17 45:11 46:7,11 defense 53:2 23:7,10,13,14 efforts 6:2
46:1,19 46:19,23,23 define 5:22 23:25 24:4,10 Eisenstein 1:4
53:20 47:9,16,17 15:20,21 22:25 24:10,12,16,18 3:5 37:2 38:15
4:15 5:25dead 7:18 definition 19:14 discussed 31:5 elects 22:14
10:21 deal 34:18,20,25 degree 39:6,23 36:25 51:23 elements 19:18
12:1,5 decide 5:16 40:20 discussing 10:4 20:2
20:5 10:22 26:23 delay 36:13 dismiss 9:21 elevate 38:4
25:4 30:7 35:9 denied 29:5 28:23 29:3 enacted 47:14
29:1 38:17 43:22 Department dismissal 28:19 47:22
40:7 48:18 50:17 1:22 disposes 14:20 engage 21:20,23
42:3 decides 25:11 depriving 18:20 14:24 23:10
45:24 26:15 38:8 described 25:8 dispute 14:19 engaging 21:22
decision 26:16 describes 37:4,5 disputed 20:1 24:10
52:10 27:12 30:15 despite 45:2 disrupting enormously 6:1
21:18,19 22:1 4:8,20 5:25 doing 8:9 13:16 entry 4:7
24:1,2,5 18:23 19:12 doors 52:19 EPA 18:15
7:5,24 declined 3:20 Devlin 40:2,6,12 drawn 24:20 ESQ 1:17,19,21
8:2,2,10 6:5 8:16 14:5 42:3,8 drew 47:17 2:3,5,7,11
14:21 25:24 different 18:16 D.C 1:10,22 essentially 40:9
10:6 46:1 33:11 37:7 52:14
declines 5:22 50:9 E ET 1:8
12:9 14:14,18 21:21 difficult 4:6 5:20 E 2:1 3:1,1 everybody
23:2,4,9 24:6 6:1 7:14 earlier 33:9 11:13 36:15
26:1,1,17 25:5 28:6 difficulty 45:12 47:13 48:20 everyone's
28:3 declining 14:15 disagree 40:25 49:5 18:14
30:16,18 14:17 51:6,7 48:7 easiest 8:7 36:5 ex 1:3 3:4
31:9 deemed 25:6 disagreed 42:3 easy 5:16 exactly 41:22
32:11,13 defeat 13:20 discovery 5:8 eat 22:8 example 15:2
34:13,15 defendant 4:8 14:16 18:14 effect 17:7 36:16 18:17,25 19:11
36:6 5:20 6:3,10 21:10,12,15,17 47:7 29:3
43:2,4 7:17 12:2,16 21:20,22,24,25 effectively 7:18 examples 18:17
18:7,19 19:23 48:8 God 31:16 30:24 31:1,6
45:7 46:18 FRAP 45:2,12 19:5 30:17 32:5,6,11,20
feel 7:17 47:17 49:4 34:15 35:2,10
9:23,23 10:1 full 28:5,7 51:22 36:12,16 45:25 40:21 41:6
45:19 46:19 further 41:4 good 25:10 43:11,12,16,20
find 6:10 43:12 46:2 7:11,12,15 8:3 governments
45:3 44:24 45:24 4:11,17 8:6,23 12:4,7,8,9,21 12:6 14:19,24
52:13 11:7 13:23 13:9,11,14,17 19:11,19 23:17
foist 50:12,15 38:16,21 41:22 14:22,23 15:1 44:17 52:18
26:19 give 13:17 32:19 16:5,6,9,10,17 greater 44:11
25:9 29:4 35:13 36:19 17:13 18:12 30:23 41:1
footnote 22:17 53:8 19:20,21,23,25
17:8 52:8 36:10 43:24 22:14,21 23:2 happens 26:23
20:16 forget 33:11 46:15 52:16 23:3,3,9 24:6 hard 5:4 7:3,16
42:1 form 38:4 gives 19:1,20 24:15 25:5,11 24:10 26:8
50:2 forma 40:9 giving 11:16 25:24 28:2,9 harm 45:1
46:21 inquiry 3:19 39:2,2,11 40:6 5:6,12 6:14 7:2 kinds 12:19
6:25 7:3 40:8 41:25 7:9,20 8:6,23 knew 33:17
43:9 44:2 50:21 10:16 11:7 7:4 8:18,24 9:8
33:18 intelligent 26:1 involuntary 16:4,16 17:6 27:9 30:14
intend 33:24 20:7,12 17:20,25 20:4 32:21 34:9
22:6 intending 33:17 involves 23:13 23:18,21 24:1 known 8:21
27:19,24 intent 36:8,8 IRWIN 1:3 24:13,24 25:3
34:9 37:23 38:6 issue 7:12 10:22 25:12,17 26:3 L
36:18 48:24 11:2 12:4 13:4 26:9,18,22 labor 8:8,12
intention 33:22 26:15 27:16 27:4,7,11,15 language 17:18
20:20 issues 52:10 30:1,6,12 31:4 law 20:20 43:22
48:22 49:20 2:7 41:9 34:17,23 35:3 left 31:14 42:4
11:22 25:5 judgment 3:12 37:16,21 38:10 31:5 33:18
27:12 34:15 39:9 12:2 14:1,5,17 40:11,14,17,23 letting 34:20
43:2 43:5,11,23 14:17,18,20,23 40:25 41:3,7 let's 21:5 30:13
intervenes 19:9 judgments 27:7 48:12,20,23 39:13 40:4
intervening 3:15 Judicial 47:16 50:25 51:14,18 line 39:11,15,15
intervention 3:19 27:1,16 justify 42:7 litigated 6:5
30:20 minute 17:7 normal 18:14 30:25 32:5 15:2,9,12,14
minutes 51:1 33:22 opposed 4:18 15:20,21,22,23
12:14,14 14:22 28:18,20 37:21
34:13 monitor 32:5 notice 3:22 4:21
41:9 17:5 18:8,13
months 47:15 6:20,25 8:7,21
29:5 45:20 46:14,17
39:5 moved 29:3 42:5 43:8,12 P 25:25 28:14,14
moves 30:17 45:12 52:22 P 3:1 28:18 29:2,11
53:5 named 3:14 16:3 obligations participate 11:5 36:23,25,25
53:23 37:18 38:2 occur 26:10,14 participated 37:21 38:9,14
9:14 15:11 naming 17:4 odd 20:4 42:11 39:3,8,13,22
22:8,10 19:22 37:19,20 oddity 20:16 participating 40:4,18,19,22
36:1,13 37:22 oh 7:20 22:12 3:16 19:17 42:7 44:5,8,11
48:13 narrowly 10:22 23:18 31:16 participation 44:13,14,16,19
35:16,19 36:2 36:12 4:9,14,16,18 45:2,3,4 46:2,5
need 9:14 11:4,8 42:20 45:6 6:9,11,12 40:5 50:4,8,11,17
21:23 13:19 43:2,4 27:17 40:19 participation-... 51:8,9,10,13
33:16 43:19 47:19 one-page 9:13 3:17 51:14,17,21,22
46:15 22:14 51:24 18:20 37:15 PAUL 1:19 2:5
45:18 26:9 37:25 pro 40:9 50:18 52:4,12 read 6:22 7:7
43:2 53:5 12:2 24:14 19:24 reads 17:10,16
8:5 11:22 points 45:23 procedure 8:22 12:17,25 45:9 16:19,22,24
13:6 position 5:10,11 9:23 15:17 pursuing 9:25 17:5 19:18
42:23 7:6 10:9 11:15 18:8 19:24 10:2 12:14 20:19 36:24,25
45:11 11:18 14:3 20:23 25:7 31:13 37:2,2,4,8,13
47:15 23:16,17,19 50:19 52:5 put 46:22 53:16 37:17,23 51:10
49:8 28:12 30:4,20 proceed 14:14 putting 47:23 really 13:15
28:14 53:6 32:12 Q 36:9 37:14
possibly 5:24 processes 48:5 question 4:15,21 reasons 3:11
2:4,12 3:8 42:25 48:4,13 proposed 5:1 26:18 36:2,24 21:16 31:5,6
44:12 48:15,15 49:1 proposition 37:23 41:15 32:24 51:21
50:5,8,12 49:8,16,19 16:25 42:10,12 46:15 rebuttal 2:10
51:3 power 5:7 39:5 protect 12:6 47:6,12,21 24:23 51:2
powers 28:16 protective 8:21 51:5 52:8,14 receive 5:5
precisely 48:10 28:7 35:22 questions 35:1 recognize 39:12
20:7,12 preferable 40:7 22:1,4,5,20 38:1,17,24 rejected 26:7
38:17 prerequisite 23:1,24 24:1,2 42:1,5 44:9 40:8
42:2 24:6,17 44:22 46:1 50:23 rel 1:3 3:4
16:12 press 34:19 35:2,12,16 R 13:1,21 14:21
pressed 34:18 39:13 R 3:1 24:7 28:7
19:21 presumably purposes 10:10 raise 26:5 30:16,21 44:5
prevent 5:8 20:22,24 21:1 27:22 47:21 46:8 53:2
10:5 prior 33:25 35:9 38:15 12:10 52:16 rely 32:25 33:5
40:2,12 respect 9:6 6:14 7:2,9,20 S 2:1 3:1 5:19 6:21 7:6
11:20 20:15 9:12 12:23 safe 6:16 7:14,25 8:15
25:1,3 1:20,24 2:6,9 35:7,18,25 11:8,8 13:11 15:15 16:1,11
26:7 5:1 10:19 36:12 41:7 15:12 16:5 16:21 17:17,23
27:2 15:19 25:2 44:20 45:6,15 29:12,13,14,17 18:1 20:11
41:12 46:20 47:5 29:19 35:19 21:4,6,11 22:5
28:21,24 Respondent's 50:25 53:20 36:4 40:22 22:9,12,23
13:9 52:1 role 25:8 28:25 44:13 50:2 23:16,20,23
responding 28:25 29:16 52:19 53:9 24:5,19 51:1,2
32:1,4 21:24 36:22 38:3,6 says 7:3 15:22 51:4,16,20
33:3 response 51:13 roles 38:14 17:12 19:1 52:24 53:14
52:23 route 27:18 22:14 23:2 second 3:11,17
responsibility rule 3:13 4:19 24:2,6 25:17 4:25 24:22
28:5,8 38:20 10:4,21,22,23 29:10 30:14 44:25 46:3
37:9 responsible 7:5 11:12 13:6 35:8 44:3 50:6 Secondly 6:1
rest 23:5 29:20 15:12,18,19 52:3,21 see 4:1 6:11,18
39:1 restrict 15:15 16:5 17:6 18:5 Scalia 5:6,12 6:23 8:1 26:8
17:8 18:7,18 19:24 25:7 9:19 10:3,8,16 47:1
restricted 16:1 26:20,25 32:1 13:8,14 14:7 seeking 20:5
41:1,4 16:15 18:5 35:11,12,16,21 14:25 15:8,11 self-denying
50:6 result 33:24 37:5 41:24,25 17:6,20,25 sense 13:10 47:9
review 6:12 47:14 48:1 23:18,21 24:1 15:13,22,23
17:12,14 16:1,13,15 rules 6:22 7:7,8 32:25 33:4,8 service 19:24
21:24,25 17:9,15 21:20 8:1,4,4 10:10 33:11,14,23 serving 21:24
53:3 30:9 32:15,16 30:25 32:13,17 39:14,17,21 19:3,5,6 28:19
19:25 34:14 35:14 36:14 45:13,14 40:25 41:3,15 settlements 43:9
38:2 41:25 46:23 47:1,23 43:15,25 48:12 shocking 43:13
36:21 45:9,22 47:4 52:20,22 49:14,16 53:4 shortened 11:11
50:14 rule's 10:3 scheduling 47:15 48:9
37:6 41:21 22:21 23:24 25:1 36:5
1:23 2:8 3:4 53:19 take 5:14 8:11 38:11
37:1 36:21 37:11 submitted 53:21 31:20 38:17 9:25 11:10,21
38:2,8 39:3,4 53:23 42:15 44:4 12:25 14:3,11
43:19 47:18 48:3 subsequently 53:9 17:17 18:2,24
49:7,9,11,21 28:9 taken 26:24 20:8,11 23:17
47:19 45:4 50:8,11 suggesting 18:3 38:1,17,24 38:6 39:1 40:2
34:1 38:20 sum 24:21 45:19 49:16 50:5,19
48:1 51:21 supporting 1:24 tell 7:3 36:18 53:14
statutory 18:12 supportive 9:9 term 33:19,19 thinks 31:16
53:5 stays 38:22 Supreme 1:1,14 27:5 22:19 40:8
50:11 steps 5:13 17:19 23:18 37:24 45:13,20 threatens 50:20
39:1,12 styled 37:11 theory 45:11 28:11 30:24
sua 26:5 T thing 4:12 26:2 31:3,6 34:11
43:16 United 1:1,3,14 wanted 41:21 Y 49:8
47:19 1:23 2:8 3:4 wanting 48:10 yeah 35:25 53:8 31 30:22
49:1,6 20:7,13,15 wants 10:21 years 6:7 37:25 32 30:22
25:18,20,21,23 19:7 28:9 30:8 47:22 33 30:22
3:5
34:24 11:21 18:3,24 19:7 08-660 1:6 3:4 4(a) 35:11
47:10 unwary 25:16 22:1 26:23 4(a)(1)(B) 3:13
uses 44:6 53:9 17 37:4 16:5 17:7 18:5
27:19 V 29:14,24 30:3
48:21 40:17,19 49:25
53:4 we've 16:24
200 6:6 9:11 10:6 11:4
32:23 25 2:6 50:6 25:18 26:1,17
25:25 3 32:11,13,19
47:22 world 7:21 3 2:4 47:15
7:5 17:15 13:1,2,3 25:19
41:18,21 42:18 46:23 47:3,8
34:5,8 26:1,17 30:16
47:2 30:21 31:9,21
48:23 46:13 47:4,12 writing 35:8 34:19 35:20 60-day 6:22 7:7
44:6 49:15,18 50:25 46:19,23 47:3 11:22 12:10
32:23 47:16 48:10,16
49:12 50:3
20:9 30:16 X 53:9 47:23
49:24 45:24 46:4 8
48:6 80 37:25
41:25 42:13
42:1
