IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JEAN MARC NKEN, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-681
MARK R. FILIP, :
ACTING ATTORNEY GENERAL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 21, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
LINDSAY C. HARRISON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Petitioner.
GEN. EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
LINDSAY C. HARRISON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
GEN. EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
LINDSAY C. HARRISON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 49
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:00 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
next in Nken v. Phillips.
Ms. Harrison.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF LINDSAY C. HARRISON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. HARRISON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
In 1996 Congress provided in 8 U.S.C.
1252(b)(3)(B) that courts may stay an alien's order of
removal pending appeal. The question in this case is
whether Congress intended that temporary stays of
removal be governed by the normal standards applicable
to States or instead by the special standard that
Congress separately set forth for injunctions in
1252(f)(2). There are three primary reasons why the
normal stay standard should apply.
First, Congress used different words to
describe these different forms of relief, "stay" in
(b)(3)(B) and "enjoin" in (f)(2). Congress used
different words because it saw these forms of relief as
different.
Second and related, a stay is in fact
different from an injunction. It is a temporary vacatur
of a court or vacancy order pending review. It is not
directed at a party and does not order a party to take
action.
Third, even an alien with a strong
likelihood of success on the merits who will face
certain persecution if deported cannot get a stay under
the (f)(2) standard, a result Congress should not be
presumed to authorize in the absence of a clear
statement to that effect.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I'm not
sure this matters very much, But do you know if -- are
stays usually granted in this type of case? Not this
type of case: A removal case as opposed to an
application to reopen.
MS. HARRISON: In a removal case stays are
granted in eight circuits only if the individual meets
the traditional --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, I understand
it. I am just saying if you happen to know empirically
if most people who are facing removal get a stay.
MS. HARRISON: I have seen no empirical --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did the government -- I
thought the government said that an empirical database
would be the Ninth Circuit, which has the more generous
rule.
MS. HARRISON: That's --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: My understanding is that
stays are granted in a very high percentage of those
cases. I would be curious to know, A, the percentage of
the cases in which it's granted; and B, the percentage
of those cases that are ultimately decided in favor of
the government?
MS. HARRISON: The data that I believe Your
Honor is referencing was the rate at which petitions for
review are filed, and not the rate at which stays are
granted or filed.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is it true that
there are more petitions filed in the courts with the
more generous standards?
MS. HARRISON: Again, I have not seen a
comprehensive study. There are more petitions filed in
the Ninth Circuit, but there is no evidence of the cause
of that. And -- and I think it's important that stays
are in fact denied under the traditional standard,
because what that demonstrates is that the traditional
standard effectuates Congress's purpose of passing
IIRIRA and eliminating the automatic stay and making it
in fact more difficult for an individual to obtain a
stay on appeal. That -- the traditional standard does
have real teeth and it does not result in an automatic
stay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many years ago was
the automatic stay eliminated? When did this -- the
current law come into effect?
MS. HARRISON: At the same time in 1996.
Congress both eliminated the automatic stay, and it
replaced it with the language in 1252(b)(3)(B), which
indicates that a stay is not automatic unless a court
orders otherwise. And -- now, that language was nearly
identical to the language that had previously existed,
where a stay was automatic except for aggravated felons.
For aggravated felons, the statute provided that a stay
was not automatic unless a court otherwise directs. And
courts had interpreted that language to provide for
application of the traditional stay standards.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it possible in
this case to kind of split the baby? You have a more
appealing fact case than is typical, because yours
involves a denial of a motion to reopen and doesn't
really go to the ultimate merits. Most of the petitions
I think do go to the ultimate merits, and it's easier to
see that (f)(2) may apply there as opposed to your case.
Now, is there a coherent way of saying that?
In other words, in your type of case, you apply the
traditional stay standards, but in a case where the
issue that is before the court is whether to order
removal or not on the merits, the other approach
applies.
MS. HARRISON: I think that the way to do
that, Your Honor, is to apply (f)(2) where the alien is
seeking permanent relief. And where the alien is
seeking to enjoin his or her removal, the (f)(2)
standard makes a lot of sense, but the (f)(2) standard
doesn't contain any predictive language. It doesn't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that's
just really saying the way that you avoid that is to say
you win across the board. I mean, it -- my
understanding is that in situations in which they are
going to be seeking an injunction to enjoin are quite
limited. They are typically just seeking to vacate the
legal order.
MS. HARRISON: And if you then apply the
(f)(2) standard across the board to stay requests, then
what that would mean is that the court of appeals is
deciding the merits twice: It's deciding it at the
outset when determining whether or not the individual is
entitled to a stay; and then it's deciding it again when
the court decides whether the individual's entitled to
have the order of removal vacated. And that just
doesn't seem like what Congress had in --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I think I
understand that point when they're seeking to have the
order -- the removal order vacated. But here you are
seeking the reopening of the proceedings, which I guess
is a little different, isn't it, than the underlying
decision on the merits?
MS. HARRISON: Technically, the order of
removal is the order denying the motion to reopen, so
they are one and the same, in this case and in any case
where the petition for review is of an order of removal,
which is what the statute provides for. And I think
that point is very important --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that right? How
can that be? I mean, you have an order of removal, and
then you move to reopen the proceedings. Aren't they
two separate things?
MS. HARRISON: Well, the statute provides
that an order denying a motion to reopen is itself an
order of removal, and that it's consolidated with the
original order of removal on appeal. So that they
become one and the same case, and the order denying the
motion to reopen is the order of removal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where does it say
that?
MS. HARRISON: I do not believe that it is
in 1252 itself, and I don't have the citation for you.
I'm sorry, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MS. HARRISON: Back to the point that it's
important to recognize that the (f)(2) standard contains
no predictive language, it doesn't allow a court to say,
is this individual likely to succeed on the merits? It
says can this individual show, by clear and convincing
evidence, that the entry or execution of the removal
order is prohibited by law, not likely to show, not we
are likely to find.
And so if courts were required to apply this
standard at the stay stage, they would be deciding the
very same question twice. They would be deciding both
the merits question of whether the individual removal
order is prohibited by law and also the stay question of
whether it should be stayed pending --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That wouldn't be deciding
it the same way twice. Initially, they would just have
to decide whether -- whether the alien has shown by
clear and convincing evidence that he should win, and if
they decide no, he hasn't, then at the merits stage they
have to decide which one prevails by a preponderance of
the evidence. So it's really a different call the
second time.
MS. HARRISON: Well, Your Honor, the
government has stated in its brief that it believes
these two standards to be virtually identical. And in
the event that a stay was granted, it would certainly
render the merits decision superfluous because, if a
stay was granted and you could meet this higher burden,
then perforce you could meet the lower burden.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's true.
MS. HARRISON: And so, in that situation,
(b)(3)(B) would be superfluous.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you claim that
(f)(2) covers, if it doesn't cover these stays?
MS. HARRISON: It covers any time an alien
seeks an injunction, now, both in the courts of appeals
and in a district court case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How can that be?
MS. HARRISON: Well, the Catholic Social
Services case is one example where individuals were
challenging the procedures whereby their legalization
applications were adjudicated under the Immigration
Reform and Control Act. And in that case, they sought
injunctive relief as a class to enjoin their removal
pending that case and permanently, in fact, because they
said they were entitled to legalization, which was an
amnesty statute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's --
that's kind of a systemic challenge, but you wouldn't
have a situation where you get an injunction in far more
typical individual cases, right?
MS. HARRISON: Well, if an individual in
that case, Your Honor, attempted to enjoin his or her
removal, then the (f)(2) standard would certainly apply
to that individual. And there's -- there's a reason why
an individual couldn't have brought that challenge as
opposed to a class.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would he seek to enjoin
his removal when he is subject to a much lesser standard
when he just seeks to stay the removal? I mean, does he
have a bad lawyer or what?
MS. HARRISON: Well, in that case, it would
be in a district court, which doesn't have supervisory
authority over the court of appeals -- I'm sorry --
over the BIA's order. And so the district court
presumably couldn't stay an order that it wasn't
reviewing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why wouldn't he go to the
court of appeals, is the next question.
MS. HARRISON: Well, he perhaps might, but
if there was a delay in the procedure or if there was
some reason why --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a fluke. I mean,
that is a flukey situation. And I find it hard to
believe that (f)(2) was meant to address just that.
MS. HARRISON: Well, it would be in any
case, even in the court of appeals, where an individual
sought an injunction as opposed to a stay. For example,
if it was a situation like the Singh case in the Ninth
Circuit, where there was a stay of removal in place, but
the agency was deporting the individual anyway. Then
the individual would need to obtain an injunction, and
in fact that was essentially what the Ninth Circuit
ordered, was a remand for the imposition of an
injunction against --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Also a fluke. We don't
expect the -- the executive to ignore a stay.
MS. HARRISON: No, Your Honor. I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER: I think it's a fluke, too,
but you gave -- to my recollection, I forget where it
was -- I think you gave citations to three or four cases
in which that actually happened.
MS. HARRISON: The Singh case, Your Honor,
is one of those cases. There's also the Lindstrom case
from the Seventh Circuit. And it does happen that,
either because of a miscommunication or some other
reason, that the stay is not effective, and in that case
an injunction would be.
And I think, in order to address the Court's
concern that (f)(2) is a fluke, it's important to take a
look at where it appears in the statute and its context.
Now, originally, the statute contained only (f)(1),
which says that you cannot obtain injunctions as a
class, but that individuals can obtain injunctions.
There was no (f)(2).
The bill went to conference and then
Congress added in (f)(2), I think to make very clear
that, although they had carved out this exception in
(f)(1) for individual cases, that it was not to be
granted as a matter of course, that even in particular
cases, which is the subtitle of (f)(2), the standard
should be very strict. And so I think Congress saw
itself as closing a potential hole here, because it had
created this opportunity to obtain an injunction as an
individual without articulating a standard. Then
Congress went about articulating standard in (f)(2).
And it's a very high standard.
Now, Congress did not cross-reference
(b)(3)(B), which is the stay provision, and in fact, in
the transitional rules, what Congress did was it only --
it only included a provision that was identical to
(b)(3)(B). It did not include (f)(2) in the
transitional rules, which -- all of which demonstrate
that Congress did not see (f)(2) and (b)(3)(B) as
related; they saw them as separate with (f)(2) governing
injunctions and (b)(3)(B) governing stays.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe I'm missing
something but -- and, again, I don't know which way this
cuts, but the dispute strikes me as very academic as a
practical matter: Judges looking at whether someone is
likely to prevail on the merits versus judges looking at
whether the person has shown by clear and convincing
evidence that he shouldn't be removed. The judge that's
going to find one in one case, depending on the
standard, and the opposite in the same case I can't
visualize.
MS. HARRISON: Well, the key I believe, Your
Honor, is the equities. Now, the (f)(2) standard does
not permit consideration of the equities in determining
whether removal is prohibited by law.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It doesn't? You're
talking about equities or irreparable harm?
MS. HARRISON: Both, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Both standards?
MS. HARRISON: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Same thing. And you
cannot consider that at all under (f)(2)? There's no
way in which the removal would be prohibited as a matter
of law under provisions that are concerned, for example,
about whether the person would be tortured or something
like that?
MS. HARRISON: Well -- well, Your Honor,
under the (f)(2) standard, take, for example, someone
who had applied for asylum, and it was denied on a
procedural technicality, and the question is: Was the
entry of the execution -- entry or execution of the
removal order prohibited by law?
That -- the issue of whether the
technicality was a -- was a correct finding or was not a
correct finding permits no consideration of whether or
not that individual, if they are deported, is going to
face persecution, torture, death, et cetera. Only under
the -- the traditional --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because the
objection is on this procedural matter?
MS. HARRISON: Correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if the objection
is that I am going to be tortured so you shouldn't order
my removal, he would be able to -- the court under
(f)(2) would be able to consider that, wouldn't it?
MS. HARRISON: I don't believe so, Your
Honor, unless the very question that was being decided
is whether the individual had met the -- met the
standard for relief under the Convention Against
Torture. But there are also cases where an individual
is seeking asylum, and there are questions about whether
-- whether the persecution is on the basis of a
protected class.
Now, the question there is not whether or
not the person is likely to suffer irreparable harm if
they go back, but, rather, what is the basis on which
they may be entitled to asylum? And so the Court in
Bohegan --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Don't they get to
pursue that even after they are sent back? There are
provisions that -- that their case does not abate just
because they have been removed?
MS. HARRISON: That is true, Your Honor.
However, their case may abate because they are killed,
they are put in jail, they are not in a position to come
back to this country. And that is why consideration of
the equities in this context is so critical and why
Congress would not have eliminated the equities from the
consideration without a very clear statement-
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I guess that's
why -- I guess that goes back to my earlier question,
which is, I see that if they are killed the case is
probably not in very good shape. But -- but the
situations in which they are likely to face that sort of
difficulties upon removal it would seem to me are
situations where the removal would be prohibited by law.
MS. HARRISON: Well, Your Honor, that was --
the court of appeals would only be allowed to consider
that if the question presented was whether they had
proven that they were likely to be killed if they were
returned to the country. But that often is not what --
the question that the court of appeals is deciding.
It is deciding a procedural question. It is
deciding whether the persecution was on the basis of a
protected class, those sorts of considerations, which
are not the same question as: Is this person likely to
be killed if they are returned?
That's why -- that's why the -- this Court
has held that unless Congress demonstrates very clearly
that it intends to take away the court's ability to
consider the equities, that we don't interpret
Congress's --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Excuse me, but I'm not
following. I have the same difficulty that perhaps the
Chief Justice is trying to get at. In the case where it
appears to the -- the judge that the -- that the alien
would be murdered when he is returned, wouldn't his
deportation be prohibited by law?
MS. HARRISON: Well, not always, Your Honor,
if the question that the court was considering wasn't
whether in fact the individual was going to be killed if
returned. If the question the court is considering is
whether -- whether a crime he has committed subjects the
individual to deportation, then the fact that that
individual is going to be killed when he is returned to
the country is not part of the (f)(2) calculus.
And -- and I don't believe that the
government has -- has argued that the equities would be
part of the consideration. The government has argued
that for legal -- for factual questions you need to
prove them by clear and convincing evidence, and for
legal questions you need to prove you are entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law.
Where the equities fall into that calculus
is -- is unclear, and I think they would only fall under
that calculus if the very question presented to the
court was that one. And -- and then, moreover, when you
say --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: When you say "equities,"
is the fact that he has applied or his wife has applied
for adjustment of his status, is that an equity?
MS. HARRISON: No, Your Honor, I don't
believe that that itself would be an equity. But the
fact that he does have a wife and he does have a young
child in this country would be a permissible
consideration in the equitable analysis, in the analysis
of -- of irreparable harm that would come to him and his
family. The -- the basis for his motion to reopen was
not the denial of adjustment -- of his adjustment of
status.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was changing
conditions.
MS. HARRISON: That's right, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Alleged changing
conditions.
MS. HARRISON: Yes, Your Honor.
And I also think that -- that it's important
to emphasize this Court's clear-statement rule, which is
that the court doesn't take for -- lightly statutes that
do not very, very clearly take away the power of the
courts to grant the stay, to grant an injunction. And
if it's not very clear from the face of the statute that
that is what Congress intended, that the court will not
interpret as having done so.
I also think that it's important to
emphasize that when Congress wanted to be expansive in
getting rid of forms of equitable relief, it was. In
1252(e)(1)(A), for example, which if you would like to
look appears on page 11a of the appendix to the gray
brief, that's the provision where Congress limited the
forms of equitable relief available to aliens facing
removal in expedited situations. And there Congress's
language was very clear that: No declaratory injunctive
or other equitable relief. There is no language of that
sort in (f)(2); the same with (f)(1).
In that provision Congress said no court in
-- in a class situation can enjoin or restrain the
removal of an alien. Not in (f)(2). In (f)(2) Congress
only used the word "enjoin" in its omission of other
equitable relief, and its omission of restrain are
instructive.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think
references to equitable relief and restrain are clear
enough to cover the Court's authority to grant a stay?
MS. HARRISON: I don't believe that restrain
is, Your Honor, because I think restrain -- it's unclear
whether Congress is talking about a stay versus a
temporary injunction or a restraining order. I think
other equitable relief does capture stays, because we
don't deny that a stay is a form of equitable relief.
It's simply not an injunction, because it's not directed
at a party, and it doesn't order a party to do
something.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just to refresh my
recollection, what -- what is the major difference
between the standards that -- or the findings that the
judge must make, (a) to grant a preliminary injunction
and (b) to grant a stay?
MS. HARRISON: That has to be the same, Your
Honor, in the usual situation, because both arise at the
same stage in the proceedings where it makes sense that
the court would want to consider: What is the
likelihood that this person is going to succeed down the
road? What -- what is the risk if I don't grant relief
at this stage?
But those two things are also treated
differently in the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure
in Rule 8 and also Rule 18, which governs only stays of
agency orders and not injunctions.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: My -- my concern is that I
sense in this statute a congressional concern that stays
are too frequently granted. And one thing we could do,
if we were to accept your view of the statute, is to
say: And you must be very careful.
Well, the courts don't listen to that very
much. And short of granting the -- accepting the
government's position, I don't know what you could do if
there were a -- a submission and understanding that
stays were being granted routinely and too frequently.
MS. HARRISON: Well, Your Honor, the -- the
standard that Congress intended, the traditional one, is
not a standard under which stays are -- are routinely
granted. They -- they have been denied in some of the
very cases where the circuits decided whether (f)(2)
applies or -- or whether the traditional standard
applies.
And this Court has given guidance, for
example, this term in Winter, that you have to -- not to
show some likelihood of -- of suffering or irreparable
harm, but you have to show a strong probability of
success on the merits, and you have to show a strong
probability of irreparable harm. And so if down the
road it seems that courts are not faithfully
implementing that standard, then the Court could again
provide guidance to that effect. But I don't think --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That case -- this case
could come out the same. If we remand and we say that
it's the traditional standards, this case might well
come out the same way. The -- the court might say,
well, it doesn't make it under the traditional -- it
hasn't shown a likelihood of success on the merits.
MS. HARRISON: That's right, Your Honor.
And -- and it very well could, and we feel we are
entitled, obviously, to make that showing before the
Fourth Circuit and have the Fourth Circuit apply the
traditional test and make a decision under that test in
the first instance. But it is true that the State could
be denied, and that there is no guarantee. It is not
automatic.
And that's why I think before '96 Congress
used the same language for aggravated felons then that
it does now for everyone. Because it knew that "unless
a court otherwise directs" doesn't mean automatic. It
means that only where there -- there is a likelihood of
success and where the equities counsel in -- in favor of
the stay, it should be granted.
That's also how this Court interpreted that
similar language in Hilton in interpreting Federal Rule
of Appellate Procedure 239(c), which concerns a stay of
a grant of a writ of habeas corpus on appeal. This
Court said that the traditional stay standard should
apply in that situation interpreting virtually the same
language that Congress then chose to use in this
provision, (e)(3)(B).
I would like to reserve the remainder of my
time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
GEN. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The statutory text, context and background
of section 1252(f)(2) all demonstrate that that section
applies to orders granting a stay of removal pending a
court of appeals decision on a petition for review.
Indeed, if section 1252(f)(2) does not apply to such an
order barring removal, it is difficult to see what
function it would serve.
Now, Petitioner's counsel has suggested that
1252(f)(2) must be directed to what I think had been
referred to as fluke kind of district court orders, and
couldn't really be directed at the situation that we
have here. There are two very powerful responses to
that, if I may make them both.
The first is that subsection (f)(2), which
appear on page 14a of our brief refers, it says no court
shall enjoin the removal, et cetera, under this section,
meaning that the provision is specifically directed to
court orders that are entered as part of the proceedings
on judicial review of final orders under section 1252.
It's not -- it's not principally directed at collateral
orders that might arise in some other class action or
some other sort of suit.
JUSTICE SOUTER: Were the examples that she
gives, the two or three cases, properly examples under
this section, in your --
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well, I think there were two
different types of examples that she gave, if I may. I
think the first one was a situation where a Department
of Homeland Security officer might have erroneously
carried out an order of removal not realizing that there
was a -- a stay entered.
JUSTICE SOUTER: May I interrupt you just a
second? When I meant examples, I meant the cited cases.
There were two or three cited cases.
GEN. KNEEDLER: The -- the cited cases, we
don't think, are examples of this. (F)(2) was not at
issue in those -- in those cases. The question in
several of them was whether the separate provision
1252(g), which this Court discussed in the American-Arab
case, whether that applied, and there was at least one
other case, it involved the transitional rules under
which (f)(2) doesn't apply.
But I think the more fundamental answer to
your point was the second point that I was -- that I was
going to make. There are -- there are three provisions
of section 1252 that make unmistakably clear that
Congress did not intend any challenge to a final order
of removal, any form of judicial review which would
include an injunction to take place outside of 1252
itself. And 1252(a)(1) provides the judicial review
shall be pursuant to chapter 158 of -- and that's on
page 1a of the brief -- shall be pursuant to chapter 158
of title 28, the Hobbs Judicial Review Act.
And then (a)(5), which is on page 4a of our
brief, says notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a petition for review filed with an appropriate court is
the sole and exclusive means for judicial review of the
removal order. Unless there be any doubt, the last
sentence the in that section says for purposes of this
entire chapter. Any time there is a reference to
judicial review, it refers to any sort of statutory or
nonstatutory provision.
So any time an alien would try to get an
injunction in any form of judicial review, Congress has
expressed barred it not only by this, but then also by
subsection (b)(9).
JUSTICE BREYER: On that particular point,
just specifically -- this is awfully complicated and you
have had to go through it pretty quickly, and so have I.
All right.
So, it seems to me, looking at these three
sections, as soon as you get to (a)(2), it says certain
matter are not subject to judicial review, and it
includes 1225(b)(1), which I take it is the case where
somebody comes in, knocks at our door, and the
immigration judge says good-bye and he says, no, no, I
am entitled to be a refugee or asylum.
Now, we look at that, it says in there it's
subsection (e) gives you judicial review of that. Now we
look at the thing you cited which is (5) -- (a)(5), and
you read it completely correctly, but you left out these
words "except as provided in subsection (e)."
So now we go to subsection (e). And lo and
behold, what is subsection (e) talking about, but just
the case I have mentioned. It talks about -- it talks
about judicial review for orders under 1225(b)(1). Now,
those are the people who knock at the door and they want
asylum. And there is some procedures for them.
So, now we look at (e) to see what are the
procedures for them. And lo and behold, right there in
(2), it says you can have a habeas corpus procedure as
to certain matters, whether he is an alien, whether he
has been admitted as a refugee, et cetera. So it says
there are some you can have habeas corpus.
So I imagine a person who has been ordered
removed under (e). All right. Now it says you can have
a habeas corpus and now the judge says good-bye. And
they go to a reviewing court, which is going to be a
habeas corpus court, and that court decides, the alien
is right, I am going to issue an injunction.
Now, just in case he's thinking that, in the
very next section (f), what we have are two provisions,
(f)(1) that says if his case is a case involving mass
action against the whole thing, you can't enter an
injunction.
And then we look at (2), and it says if his
is just a normal case, you can't enter an injunction
unless it meets this specific standard. So I looked at
that. And I admit this is pretty quick, and I thought
it's (e) and it's (f), and (f) is dealing with (e),
(f)(2). And it makes perfect sense. They don't want a
habeas corpus judge telling that immigration judge what
to do with the guy knocking on the door and saying "I
need asylum," unless they meet clear and present
danger -- clear and -- whatever it is, clear and
present -- yeah.
Okay. Now, I will admit I read that
quickly. And therefore, I am probably missing something.
And I don't expect you necessarily to be an expert, but
can you do your best to tell me what I am missing or if
you think I might be right?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Yes, if I could. 1225(b)(1)
governs the special -- what is called expedited removal.
It's a special procedure, as you identified, for people
essentially knocking at the door, and it has very
limited review, as you suggested. Almost everything is
unreviewable except possibility of asylum.
But it's -- that is the only provision for
district court review. It's the, shall we say,
functional equivalent of a petition for review in the
court of appeals and everybody else. Congress just
decided to have two different -- two separate
procedures, and I think for 1225(b)(1) it's really a
carryover orders of exclusion prior to 1996.
JUSTICE BREYER: What it says here
specifically is it says habeas proceedings.
GEN. KNEEDLER: Yes, it does -- it does
say -- it does say habeas, but (f) -- there is no
suggestion that (f), either (1), which is general
application, or (f)(2) in particular is limited to
subsection (e). It -- it speaks of any injunction.
And that is instructive because the term
"injunction" is used in the Hobbs Judicial Review Act to
describe an interlocutory order by a court of appeals on
judicial review that suspends the enforcement of an
agency order pending judicial review. And we quote the
Hobbs Judicial Review Act in our brief.
And as I mentioned before, that is very
important to understand here, because Congress
provided -- other than the habeas review for this
special category, Justice Breyer, Congress provided that
judicial review in the norm is in the court of appeals
pursuant to the Hobbs Act. And if you look at the Hobbs
Act provision for interlocutory stays, it refers to
interlocutory relief as an injunction. It uses the
word --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, let me add one other
thing, because all I am trying to do is find some work
for this section (f)(2) to do. And I think I found
some. And I think what you say is wait a minute, we
agree it's like habeas. But and I think it would be
like an exclusion order rather than a removal order.
And I did notice previously when it talks
about 1225, sometimes it uses the word "exclusion" and
sometimes it says "removal." But if you were that
district habeas judge and you get a thing saying
removal, you don't really vacate it. I think what you
had do is order an injunction against its enforcement.
Here I don't know --
GEN. KNEEDLER: I think the habeas court
would have the authority -- would have the authority to
vacate just as -- just as a court of appeals would have
the authority to vacate.
But my basic point is that both of them are
forms of judicial review. And if this heightened
injunction standard applies to the form of judicial
review that Congress has decided to leave in habeas,
then there is no reason to imagine why Congress wouldn't
want the same injunctive standard to apply to somebody
who is seeking judicial review in the normal way, in the
court of appeals, especially since Congress used the
word "injunction" to describe this very sort of
interlocutory relief under the Hobbs Judicial Review Act
when -- when a person seeks judicial review in a -- in a
court of appeals.
And this conforms to the ordinary meaning of
the word which is "enjoin," which is to prohibited
something, to require a party to abstain from carrying
out an act. That's exactly what a stay of removal does.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you -- do you
agree with your friend that the basic difference between
your two positions is that under the stay factors you
are allowed to consider irreparable harm but are not
allowed to consider that under (f)(2).
GEN. KNEEDLER: No, I think (f)(2) -- (f)(2)
is -- is a necessary condition for granting relief. It
doesn't -- it doesn't eliminate the requirement that an
alien show -- show harm from the -- from the removal.
It's -- it's a condition --
JUSTICE SOUTER: What difference would it
make? I mean, if he can satisfy the clear and
convincing standard, which is tantamount to saying that
on final judgment I win, hands down, what need is there
to -- to go into irreparable harm?
GEN. KNEEDLER: And that -- and that -- that
-- that may well be. I think it may well be in the
typical case. If I -- if I could just --
JUSTICE SOUTER: But -- but -- but that's --
no, but in any case, if he's got to show by clear and
convincing evidence that he is going to have success on
the merits, I don't see any point in any case of going
into irreparable harm. If he goes into irreparable harm
without the clear and convincing standard, he loses. If
he satisfies the clear and convincing standard, there is
nothing for irreparable harm considerations to -- to add
to -- to the mix of factors.
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well, as we understand the
reference to clear and convincing evidence, and
admittedly it's not entirely clear how Congress intended
that standard to apply in this context. As we
understand it it is -- it is a standard of review
slightly more favorable to the alien than the
substantial evidence review standard, which is what
would apply -- one final --
JUSTICE SOUTER: It's certainly more than a
preponderance?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Yes. But -- but in no
event, even on review of the final order, is the court
reviewing for a preponderance of the evidence; the court
is reviewing the case on the administrative record under
the substantial evidence test, in which case the court
at final judgment cannot set aside the -- the agency
order, except -- unless it finds that no reasonable
factfinder could conclude that the order should stand.
That's the substantial evidence test.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But the ultimate -- the
ultimate standard to which they look is a preponderance
standard. In other words, the substantial evidence
standard is keyed to what a reasonable factfinder could
find reasonably, based upon substantial evidence. Is
the substantial evidence sufficient for such a
factfinder to find by a preponderance that this person
has failed to meet, or, put it the other way around,
that the factfinder has unreasonably failed to find that
the Petitioner has met the standard?
So ultimately you are talking about a
preponderance standard, which is -- which is the key,
isn't that correct?
GEN. KNEEDLER: That -- that is -- the court
-- you are correct in the sense that the court is
reviewing to see whether substantial evidence supports
the IJ's determination by a preponderance of the
evidence. But (f)(2) is written in terms of the sort of
showing that the alien must make to the court, and --
and not -- not what he would have made to the IJ. And
as -- and as we read it, as we try to apply the language
in the context of a stay, we thing that means that the
alien must show something a little bit short of -- of
the substantial evidence, that no reasonable factfinder
could find it, at least clear and convincing evidence
that as -- that the IJ was incorrect or that the alien
has a successful case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there other cases in
which clear and convincing -- the clear and convincing
standard applies to appellate courts? It seems to me
clear and convincing is more appropriate for a factual
determination at the trial court level.
GEN. KNEEDLER: It -- it -- it ordinarily
is. And that --and that's why the phrasing, as I was
trying to discuss with Justice Souter, I think, is a
little awkward. Another possible way to think about it,
and this may be what Congress was really driving at,
when it was -- when it was saying clear and convincing
evidence, it really meant a clear and convincing
showing; that the -- that the courts shouldn't take this
too casually.
As we point out in our brief, the Second
Circuit has a standard that the alien just has to show
more than a negligible likelihood of success on the
merits to prevail. Well, that -- that's way below what
even the traditional standard would be. So it's
possible to read clear and convincing evidence as really
driving at clear and convincing showing, which is
language that is -- that is somewhat reminiscent of what
this Court has said for preliminary injunctions
generally.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So I take it at
least in the Seventh Circuit these things are usually
granted?
GEN. KNEEDLER: They're -- uh -- we do not
have empirical data, and I wish we did, on the
percentage, but they are -- in the Ninth Circuit in our
experience -- again we don't have percentages, but they
are granted quite frequently.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the standard is
probable success on the merits, and that's not an easy
standard. Irreparable harm and probable success on the
merits, both.
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well, if -- if the courts
actually applied that standard, there would at least be
some improvement in the stay standards, but the courts
sometimes apply a sliding scale, where they say if there
is -- you know, a serious question and a showing -- a
showing of substantial harm would be sufficient. Well,
this Court has twice reaffirmed in the last term, in the
last term --
JUSTICE BREYER: What are we supposed to do?
What would you had do? Suppose you are a district court
judge and at 2:00 in the afternoon on Friday a petition
comes in and it's from someone who says, "I'm going to
be on the 5:00 airplane to Hong Kong and I have a real
case here. I think I am right." And he has eight pages
attached and you read through that. And you say, "He
has a point. Now how good this point is, I don't know.
So I would like to put this -- I would like to have
everybody in here on Monday, and then I could figure it
out."
Now, that probably happens. Now what is
worrying me about your position on this -- which,
although most -- I think every circuit is against you on
this, except for this one.
GEN. KNEEDLER: And there are others.
JUSTICE BREYER: And it seems to me that
would make it impossible for the district judge to do,
because the district judge cannot honestly say that it's
clear and convincing that this man is going to win. All
he knows is he has a point and he would like to hear
more about it and he doesn't want him on the airplane
three hours from now from Hong Kong. So I -- so how is
it supposed to work?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well, it would be the court
of appeals, not the district judge.
JUSTICE BREYER: Right.
GEN. KNEEDLER: But it -- we believe that
that -- that 1252(f)(2) allows a court to take the time
necessary to rule meaningfully on the stay application.
We do not believe Congress intended to divest the court
of the ability to rule on the merits. It has a
substantive standard that the alien has to make a clear
and convincing -- has to show by clear and convincing
evidence. It presupposes that the alien has to make a
showing; therefore it presupposes that the court must be
able to evaluate that showing. We also believe that it
presupposes that the government is permitted to respond
to it.
So we -- we do not object and have not
objected in the lower courts to the courts taking
sufficient time to -- to freeze the status quo by
issuing a short stay if necessary to do that.
Now, in the Eleventh Circuit, for example,
which has operated under this heightened showing for
some period of time, it tends to work out, because when
a -- a -- a petition for review and stay application is
granted, the court contacts the Office of Immigration
Litigation which works with DHS to inform the court on
how soon the order might be issued, and then the court's
aware of how quickly it might act.
So -- so it wouldn't often be necessary for
the court to do it, but we did not challenge that
authority.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But and -- and I applaud
the fact that you don't, but I don't know how you can do
it consistently with your view that "stay" in (b)(3)(B)
means the same thing as the "injunction" in (f) when
"injunction" in (f) is restricted as much as it is.
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well, I --
JUSTICE SOUTER: God bless you, but I don't
know how -- I don't know how under the statute, on your
reading of the statute, you -- you can do it.
GEN. KNEEDLER: There are two responses.
One, we -- we think it is necessarily implicit in the
statutory framework that Congress would have wanted the
court to be able to rule on the interlocutory
injunction, but the -- but the second point I think that
-- that reinforces this proposition, again, if you go
back to the Hobbs Judicial Review Act, it has a
provision not only for interlocutory injunctions, which
is what we're really talking about here, but a provision
for a temporary -- for a court to issue a temporary stay
upon a showing of irreparable injury to allow the status
quo to be maintained pending the court's ruling on the
interlocutory injunction.
JUSTICE SOUTER: All right. Then why
doesn't that provide the broader authority under
(b)(3)(B) stay provision that your friends on the other
side are arguing for?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well, it may -- that may
well be the right answer, is to read (b)(3)(B) --
(b)(3)(B)'s opening that -- which says a petition for
review does not in itself stay the order -- is very
similar to the language in the opening of 2349(b) which
is the interlocutory injunctive language of the Hobbs
Judicial Review Act. It says the mere filing of the
petition doesn't stay or suspend the order. It says
stay or suspend the order, and it says stay, and then it
says but a court may -- I forget the precise language --
restrain or suspend the order reflecting pending
judicial review; and it refers to that as an
interlocutory injunction.
But it says if the Petitioner shows that
irreparable injury would occur before the court has a
chance to rule even on the interlocutory injunction, it
can issue what's called a temporary stay to maintain the
status quo until it can look at the -- at the -- at the
interim relief.
Well, if -- if that -- if that background
rule is not misplaced, that would allow for some
separation of the sort of emergency motion for a stay, a
hold fast sort of situation, for the court to be able to
evaluate the merits. But when it gets to what the Hobbs
Act refers to as an injunction, then (f)(2) kicks in,
interlocutory injunction pending -- pending judicial
review.
So that would be -- that would be an
underlying statutory basis for allowing the court to --
to issue a temporary order to allow the -- to allow the
proceeding to go forward, but we think it should be done
in a timely way. The Hobbs Judicial Review Act
contemplates a rather casual, up to 60 days that such a
temporary stay should remain in effect. We think in
many cases under the immigration laws the court should
be able to act on the stay application more quickly than
that.
I did want -- I did also want to stress the
-- the policy purposes that Justice Kennedy raised in --
in an earlier question, and that is the -- the thrust-
the whole thrust of the 1996 amendments to the
Immigration Act was to expedite the removal of aliens,
particularly criminal aliens, but not all -- but all
aliens in fact. And Congress did several things when it
did that. It repealed the prior provision where that
said the mere filing of petition for review
automatically stayed the removal unless the courts
ordered -- ordered otherwise. And it also repealed the
prior provision that said that the alien -- if the alien
left the country, including -- that was construed to
mean pursuant to deportation order, he could no longer
challenge the removal order outside the country.
Congress changed completely that and it said
you had can now challenge the order of removal from
outside the country, and it basically reversed the
presumption with respect to whether - whether the filing
of the petition for review stays -- stays the order of
removal. Congress said, No, it does not unless the
courts ordered otherwise.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you would expect the
standard to be in the (b)(3)(B) provision. It says that
no automatic stay unless the court otherwise orders,
period. That's the end of it.
So one wonders whether this would think that
the normal standard for a stay would apply. And then
(f)(2) is separated by several pages and (f)(1) is
dealing with something where we understand it. It says
no mass injunctions against the enforcement of a
provision. But (2) is really puzzling what it relates
to, is it supposed to have some relationship to (1)? 1
says you can't enjoin the enforcement of a provision of
the law.
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well, (f)(1) is directed at
-- in large part at programmatic challenges. It
provides -- it prohibits courts from enjoining or
restraining the operation of part 4 of the INA which --
which is the provision that deals with deportation,
adjudication of deportation and exclusions and carrying
out those orders, which by the way we think is the
reason it says enjoin or restrain, because it's talking
about programmatic type actions, and restrain -- the
word restraint is sometimes used to be something in an
absolute prohibition, just -- just to limit it, whereas
on "enjoin" is necessary under (f)(2) because it --
because what is being enjoined or stayed is a vary
discreet act. You can have an injunction barring
removal or -- or you don't.
But I -- I think a further answer to your
question, Justice Ginsburg, is that (f)(2) says under
this section, which means that it is obviously referring
to court orders entered in the course of -- of removal
proceedings under section 1252, and when a court finally
gets to the merits in a petition for review in a court
of appeals, the court if it decides that there is a flaw
-- excuse me -- a legal flaw in the BIA or immigration
judge's decision, it vacates the decision and -- and --
and remands.
Injunctions are not necessary in that -- in
that kind of review, so-
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So in this -- in
this case involving a denial of a motion to reopen, what
the court of appeals is supposed to do is to look ahead
and see if this person has shown by clear and convincing
evidence that they shouldn't be removed; and if they
haven't, then their -- their removal can't be blocked,
even for example if the court of appeals thinks, well,
yes, they should have gotten their motion to reopen.
GEN. KNEEDLER: No, no. The way -- the way
I would understand it to operate is that the -- the
alien would have to make a clear and convincing showing
that he is entitled to have the motion to reopen
granted. Because if the motion to reopen is granted,
that vacates the final order of removal and therefore
there is no longer a final order of removal pursuant to
which the alien could be removed.
And I did want to respond to your suggestion
that maybe the standard should be more lenient with
respect to motions to reopen. With respect, I think
that's the opposite of what the rule should be, if
anything; because the final -- the review of the final
order of removal is the main show; and in that -- in
that situation, the alien is actually challenging the
order of removal.
In a case like this where the order of
removal was a long time ago, and the -- and the -- the
alien sought judicial review of that and that was
denied, the only thing before the court is the -- is the
motion to reopen. And staying -- a judicial order
staying the denial of a motion to reopen is meaningless.
In order to get the relief preventing removal you need a
stay of removal, which really effectively directs DHS-
as we think it does in all cases -- directs DHS not to
execute the order of removal that was -- t hat was
already previously entered.
And also the denial of a motion to reopen,
especially like the one at issue in this case, where the
question is whether the alien has shown -- has produced
material evidence of changed circumstances, that is
reviewed as this Court said in its decision in Abudu,
under an abuse of discretion standard. So it would be
very likely -- very unlike that an alien would prevail.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This provision
applies to us as well, I take it, right?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Yes, we -- we believe it
would.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if there is a
cert petition filed on behalf of an alien subject to
removal, and he asks for a stay of removal, we have to
decide whether he meets the clear and convincing
evidence standard.
GEN. KNEEDLER: For -- for purposes of
granting a stay, yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We should have -- we
should have done this in this case, but I assume you
suspended removal of the Petitioner on your own?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well, the Court granted the
stay in connection with the -- with the granting of --
of certiorari in my case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask just a
technical point?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: One of the -- the motion
to reopen was based on changed circumstances in the
Cameroon. But there was also this independent
application for adjustment of his status, which was
turned down because it was a successive motion.
GEN. KNEEDLER: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: My understanding is that
that adjustment could not have been asked for earlier
because his wife didn't come with -- until after.
GEN. KNEEDLER: If I -- yes. Well, he -- he
did seek -- he did seek, the first time around he sought
a remand for consideration of his adjustment of status
application, but one of the requirements to be eligible
for that is that a visa be available, and a visa was not
then available, and nothing in the Act requires that
deportation hearings be held up until a visa becomes
available.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but now he would
qualify, except that it's a successive motion. So it
seems earlier he was premature and now he's too late.
GEN. KNEEDLER: But -- but Congress was
quite explicit; it only wanted one -- one motion to
reopen, except in the case of asylum or withholding of
deportation. It wanted -- it wanted the proceedings to
come to an end. And that's -- the circumstances of this
case powerfully reinforce what Congress --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I just ask a
question?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: This person is married to
a citizen, has an American citizen child. Is there any
way that his status could be adjusted? It can't in this
procedural situation because it is a successive motion.
GEN. KNEEDLER: He could -- he could apply
for an immigrant visa from abroad. Now there may be
situations in which -- in which by virtue of having been
removed, there is a bar to his getting that, but that is
subject to waiver. So really what the alien's
adjustment status in the United States is discretionary
if there is a piece of available -- it is discretionary
from abroad. All -- it's really a alternate venue
provision, where the alien applies from abroad.
JUSTICE STEVENS: GEN. KNEEDLER, when we
entered this stage, did we violate (f)(2)?
GEN. KNEEDLER: I -- I think it would be
analogous to what I was saying before, that the -- this
Court like a court of appeals has the authority to -- to
freeze the status quo while it can decide the pertinent
legal issue, and the pertinent legal issue before
this --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Where -- where do we get
that authority if (f)(2) means what you say?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well, as I explained, we do
not -- we do not challenge the ability of a court to
decided -- to freeze the status quo while ruling on the
motion for stay.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what court would ever
do anything else? I mean, why if you were granting a
stay, would you not want to do that so you can fully
consider the issues?
GEN. KNEEDLER: Well, but there's -- it's
not two stages; it's three. The -- a stay of removal
is, under the Hobbs Act terms, an interlocutory
injunction. That can last -- judicial review in the
Ninth Circuit can last four years, so if a stay is
granted, you could have an interlocutory injunction in
place for a long time. The temporary stay is just while
the court is ruling, considering the interlocutory
injunction.
JUSTICE SOUTER: But this is a longer
temporary stay than you conceded a few moments ago. I
mean, you were talking about Friday night to Monday
morning, when you were -- when you were conceding the
stay on the Hobbs analogy. I don't know how many months
it's been, but this is no Friday night to Monday morning
stay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's pretty close to
it, though.
(Laughter.)
GEN. KNEEDLER: It feels like it.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General
Kneedler.
Ms. Harrison, you have seven minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LINDSAY C. HARRISON
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MS. HARRISON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I'd like to start with the point that the
government contends that this Court or any court of
appeals could impose a stay to consider the stay motion.
And, respectfully, I don't believe that is consistent
with the text of (f)(2), and I think that the fact that
the government must stray from the text is a sign of how
absurd the results would be if (f)(2) were applied to
stays.
Now, the reason they must stray from the
text is that the text says "notwithstanding any other
provision of law," which means notwithstanding the Hobbs
Act and notwithstanding the All Risk Act, which is where
I believe my brother was indicating this Court would get
authority to impose such a stay.
Now, I think the fact that there are cases
where such a need would arise, as in Justice Breyer's
hypothetical, is exactly why this Court applies a
presumption against interpreting statutes as restricting
the equitable authority of the courts, unless there is a
clear statement to the contrary, which --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, but you still have a
differential on the Friday to Monday night hypothetical.
You wouldn't apply, or would you, the same standard that
you would apply on Monday for the next -- on Monday for
the next year and a half?
MS. HARRISON: Well, Your Honor, the (f)(2)
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because you have the same
problem under your standard as the government does under
its.
MS. HARRISON: Well, that's true. You'd
have to show likelihood of success. But in -- in the
situation where you could consider the equities, if the
equities were strong enough and demonstrated in the stay
application, then it wouldn't be difficult for the court
to decide whether the balance of the factors justified
implementing a stay in that situation. Under (f)(2),
the court would have to decide the question outright.
And, again, (f)(2) does not mean any predictive
language; it just says, has the individual demonstrated
and shown by clear and convincing evidence that removal
is prohibited by law? Under the traditional standard,
there is a -- the court is allowed to consider whether
the individual is likely to show success on the merits.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: You think that if you do
not prevail, and we say clear and convincing evidence is
the standard, that courts are not entitled to consider
equity?
MS. HARRISON: Well, Your Honor, I heard my
brother as indicating that if you meet the (f)(2)
standard, then -- then the court can consider the
equities so as to deprive the individual of the stay,
but that if you cannot meet the (f)(2) standard, then
the question is closed and there is no consideration.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: About your position, is it
your contention that if we grant -- if we determine
clear and convincing is the standard, that equities are
not relevant to that calculus?
MS. HARRISON: Yes, Your Honor, in the event
that the individual does not meet (f)(2). If the
individual meets (f)(2), then I do believe the court
would go on to consider the equities. But in the event
that the individual has met the (f)(2) standard, the
court could simply grant the petition on the merits, and
there is no need to go about considering the equities
because the individual has shown that -- by clear and
convincing evidence -- that removal is prohibited as a
matter of law.
And that is the second point I want to get
to, which is Your Honor's question about, isn't this a
standard that sounds a lot more like it is directed at
district courts because -- I think you are right, Your
Honor, and I think it does sound like that standard
because I so think that was where it was intended to
apply. And the phrase "under this section" does not
modify the word "enjoin"; it modifies the word "final
order of removal." And to ascribe the government's
reading to it would require you to move that phrase from
where Congress placed it in the statute, to after the
word "enjoin."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess General
Kneedler's point is that clear and convincing shifts a
little, depending on how long you've got to look at it.
If you've only got a day or a few hours before the
removal is going to take place, you can say this is
convincing enough based on what I have had a chance to
look at. But -- and therefore you could enter, I guess,
what may be called the temporary stay to get more
briefing from the government or whatever. But you may
find out when you look at it a little more deeply that
it's not clear and convincing. What's wrong with that?
MS. HARRISON: Well, Your Honor, if the
Court were to interpret clear and convincing as a more
flexible standard, then I don't think -- you know, I
don't disagree with Your Honor's characterization of it.
But I still think that, regardless of how you interpret
clear and convincing, that the equities would not be
part of the calculus.
And I also think that the fact that clear
and convincing sounds like a standard Congress would
have addressed to district courts, the fact that (f)(2)
says "no" courts, not -- not just the "courts of
appeals," the fact that it references an "alien" and not
a "petitioner" are -- and the fact that it is addressed
to instances where the entry or execution is prohibited
by law as opposed to the order itself being unlawful are
all signs that Congress intended this provision to apply
both in the district courts and in the court of appeals.
And I would also note that (a)(5), which is
a provision the government pointed to, was not in the
1996 statute it was added in 2005, and the
constitutionality of that provision continues to be
litigated. And, moreover, there are habeas cases in the
district courts that persist where (f)(2) has real
application and where Congress's intent that an
injunction, not a stay, but an injunction be very
difficult to obtain --
JUSTICE BREYER: 1225?
MS. HARRISON: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE BREYER: Was I right or wrong?
MS. HARRISON: I believe you are right, and
I believe that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Are you sure? Because --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: -- you didn't mention it.
If I am right, why didn't you mention it?
MS. HARRISON: I did not mention it in my
opening, Your Honor, and that was my error. I believe
habeas is one example -- and habeas in the expedited
removal context, where the provisions would apply. And
-- and I think, as this court made clear in Saint Cyr,
Congress did intend for some habeas actions to persist
in the '96 IIRIRA statute. And in those cases, (f)(2)
would apply, would have real impact.
And I would also note that if the Court were
to accept the government's interpretation of the term
"enjoin," that it only applies in stays and that doesn't
have application elsewhere, then you would be required
to interpret Congress's use of the word "enjoin" to be
not really inclusive of stays but as coterminous with
the word "stay." But Congress didn't use the word
"stay" it (f)(2). It used the word "enjoin." And the
fact that that word choice was different from the word
it used in (b)(3)(B) I think is a clear indication that
Congress had something different. It didn't
cross-reference stay and didn't use the word "stays,"
and it articulated a standard that seems more
appropriate for district courts adjudicating permanent
injunctive relief than courts of appeals hearing a
temporary application for a stay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the standard you
think should apply under (b)(3)(B) is a standard that
describes as applicable to temporary injunctions. The
word -- there is substantial likelihood of success on
the merits and irreparable harm -- that is the standard
preliminary injunction, not preliminary stay. The
preliminary injunction standard. So the two words
certainly overlap.
MS. HARRISON: Yes, Your Honor. There is
overlap, and the standard that is applied by the courts,
if there is no statute to the contrary, is the same.
But here Congress expressed an intention to treat
injunctive relief differently and articulated a standard
that was higher than injunctive relief.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I just ask this one
real quick: Do you understand -- is your understanding
that the government's interpretation of the statute that
our stay in this case violated the statute?
MS. HARRISON: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms.
Harrison.
General Kneedler, Ms. Harrison, the Court
entered a very expedited briefing and arguments schedule
in this case that unfortunately fell over the holiday
season, and we appreciate very much that this must have
imposed a burden on you had and your colleagues. Thank
you.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:02 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
48:7 46:7,11,15 American-Arab 45:10 47:20 authorize 4:8
39:4 administrative amnesty 11:1 apply 3:18 6:23 6:1,4,7,9,12,14
41:3 33:11 analogous 47:24 6:25 7:6,18 23:8,12 42:4
56:20 admitted 27:24 analysis 19:5,5 23:21 24:11 41:14
32:25 39:19 43:5 33:1,5 34:12 46:17,18,20
agree 30:17 30:8 31:3,12 26:12 34:22 10:11,11 13:23
30:3,9 airplane 36:17 47:25 49:18 arguing 39:17 23:23 26:22
31:14,20 37:9 53:18,23 55:14 argument 1:13 38:19,19 39:16
39:7,24 alien 4:4 7:6,7 appear 24:21 2:2,7 3:3,6 39:16,19,19,20
41:3 9:21 10:14 APPEARAN... 24:3 49:13 39:20 42:3,3
43:3 17:25 20:12 1:15 arguments 55:9,9,17,17
48:16 26:19 27:23 appears 13:5 56:13 baby 6:18
28:5 32:4 33:3 17:25 20:3 articulated back 9:5 16:10
41:16,16 44:2 appendix 20:3 13:19,20 background
45:4,8,14 applicable 3:14 aside 33:13 bad 11:15
41:10,11 6:16 29:21 assume 45:21 barred 26:21
47:16 41:3 46:7,16 16:5,11 27:8 43:3
allow 9:7 39:11 55:3,15 29:8 47:1 46:5 53:1
allowed 17:7 10:21 attempted 11:7 basically 41:22
allowing 40:21 18:24,24 25:21 1:7 17:13 19:7
alternate 47:19 55:25 20:18 31:2,2,4 behalf 1:16,20
3:7 called 29:4 40:9 55:23 citations 12:20 conceded 48:24
45:14 53:3 certiorari 45:25 cited 25:14,15 conceding 49:1
Cameroon 46:6 cetera 15:16 25:16 27:11 concern 13:4
14:16 carried 25:11 11:10 26:3 class 10:23 concerns 23:18
18:11 carrying 31:19 38:15 41:19,21 11:11 13:8 conclude 33:15
20:19 42:20 48:7 16:7 17:14 condition 32:2,5
carryover 29:15 challenges 42:16 20:11 25:2 conditions 19:11
49:19 carved 13:12 challenging clear 4:8 9:9,22 19:14
52:1 case 3:12 4:12 10:20 44:14 13:11 14:11 conference
4:13,13,15 chance 40:8 16:23 18:15 13:10
30:7,13 32:17 33:11,12 7:11 8:2,14,24 53:12,14 54:21 30:5,7 31:8,9
37:4,14 34:18 36:18 9:4 11:2 14:6 55:9 31:12 32:25
54:8,10 43:18 44:16 14:20,23,25 clearly 17:18 35:3 37:18
45:3,21,25 15:18,21 16:13 19:19 39:3 41:11,20
26:8,11 cases 5:5,6,7 31:21 35:18 close 49:5 53:15,22 54:22
35:8 11:5 12:20,23 43:17 45:9,13 closed 51:19 55:6,10 56:2
22:8 25:5,14 49:15 52:21 coherent 6:24 21:20
44:24 50:5 choice 55:8 come 6:5 16:19 54:5 55:4
casually 35:7 12:9,12,24 comes 27:6 consider 15:1,24
49:13 cert 45:14 circuits 4:16 27:12 41:20 51:8,12,16
51:23 27:23 circumstances 26:24 consideration
certainly 10:5 45:5 46:5 47:3 comprehensive 14:18 15:14
46:15 28:5,18 54:25 56:12 decides 7:24 determine 51:21
correct 15:13,14 courts 3:11 5:14 28:5 43:11 determining
32:21 correctly 27:12 10:15 19:20 7:23 9:14,15 DHS 38:11
48:21 55:5 34:21 35:6 17:13 difference 21:4
counsel 4:10 36:5,7 38:3,3 decision 8:7 31:22 32:6
17:10 18:10 52:12 53:16,17 45:6 8:6 9:25 25:8
41:22 55:13,14,25 20:7 differential
43:8 17:19 19:17 delay 11:25 differently
17:7,11,17 crime 18:7 denial 6:20 19:8 directed 4:2
21:11 22:11,18 cross-reference denied 5:20 15:8 42:15 52:11
24:7 23:20 24:6,10 curious 5:5 44:19 23:12 44:23,24
34:13 24:16,21,24 current 6:5 deny 20:24 disagree 53:10
25:20 26:12 cuts 14:8 denying 8:9,19 discreet 43:3
31:1,3,12,16 D 1:19 25:9 47:17,18
35:16 36:11,14 data 5:9 35:22 deportation dispute 14:8
14:11 38:10,11,15 day 52:24 42:19,20 46:19 11:17,19 24:16
32:8,16 39:4,10 40:2,7 days 40:25 47:2 29:10 30:22
40:15,21 41:2 dealing 28:16 deported 4:6 36:14 37:5,6
42:4 43:8,9,10 42:9 15:15 37:13 52:12
43:11,19,23 deals 42:19 deporting 12:10 53:16,23 54:4
44:19 45:6,23 death 15:16 deprive 51:17 55:13
44:2 47:25,25 48:7 decide 9:21,23 Deputy 1:18 divest 37:18
51:6,11 48:10,21 49:17 9:24 45:16 describe 3:20 door 27:6,18
52:7,22 49:17 50:3,7 48:1 51:1,3 29:25 31:13 28:19 29:6
50:25 51:3,8 decided 5:7 16:1 describes 55:18 doubt 26:14
28:3 53:8,23 54:21 31:8 48:8 34:8,23 D.C 1:9,16,19
56:13 34:9,15,16 15:1,7,24 fell 56:14
28:2,16 entire 26:16 35:5,13 37:22 18:10 20:9,9 felons 6:12,13
29:22 entirely 32:25 43:21 45:5,17 20:12,12 22:8 23:10
46:11,23 10:25 16:11 exactly 31:20 28:8,9,16,16 filed 5:11,12,14
24:3 entry 9:10 15:10 20:2 22:12 34:9 38:20,21 41:13,23
41:1 equitable 19:5 54:19 42:15 43:1,6 final 24:25 26:3
18:12,18,23 exclusions 42:20 55:7 14:13 30:14
19:2 51:13 execution 9:10 6:19 10:24 finds 33:14
erroneously existed 6:11 38:18 41:11 46:14
error 54:18 expect 12:16 53:14,16,18,19 flexible 53:9
35:22 45:3 expedite 41:9 factfinder 33:15 13:4 24:16
42:10 essentially 12:12 56:13 factors 31:23 forget 12:19
29:6 experience 32:22 51:1 40:2
10:23 27:24 expert 28:25 34:22 26:20 31:7
20:11 evaluate 37:24 explained 48:6 failed 33:24,25 forms 3:20,22
24:22 40:16 explicit 46:25 faithfully 22:17 20:1,5 31:6
42:13,22 event 10:5 33:9 expressed 26:21 fall 18:18,19 forth 3:16
52:16,20 51:24 52:2 56:2 family 19:7 forward 40:23
everybody far 11:4 found 30:15
36:22 F fast 40:15 four 12:20 48:18
14:12 18:15 10:13 11:8 Federal 21:16 freeze 38:4 48:1
22:3 16:10 26:25 53:2 hearing 55:14 IJ 34:11,17
27:14 28:4 guidance 22:11 hearings 46:19 IJ's 34:8
49:3 40:23 52:2,5 guy 28:19 38:7 31:9
God 38:23 held 17:18 46:19 immigrant
37:7 52:25 54:3,19,19,22 40:16,24 48:16 implementing
25:7,16 governing 14:4 happens 36:24 25:10 impose 49:18
31:1 14:5 hard 12:3 honestly 37:6 50:4
government harm 14:21 16:9 Hong 36:17 imposed 56:16
34:5,24 4:23,24 5:8 19:6 22:14,16 37:10 imposition
36:5 10:3 18:12,13 31:24 32:4,10 Honor 5:10 7:6 12:13
37:25 49:17,21 32:18,18,21 9:3 10:2 11:7 impossible 37:5
39:1,18 50:19 53:4,25 36:3,10 55:20 12:17,22 14:17 improvement
43:25 government's Harrison 1:16 14:22 15:6 36:7
22:1 52:17 2:3,8 3:5,6,8 16:1,17 17:6 INA 42:18
55:1 56:7 4:15,21 5:2,9 18:3 19:1,12 include 14:1
governs 21:17 5:16 6:6 7:5,18 19:15 20:20 26:5
49:8 29:4 8:8,18 9:1,5 21:9 22:4 23:1 included 13:25
29:20 20:18 21:6,7 11:6,16,24 52:13 53:7 including 41:17
52:21 21:13 23:19 12:5,17,22 54:18 55:24 inclusive 55:5
51:21 52:4 14:16,22,24 56:9 incorrect 34:17
13:14 21:21 18:3 19:1,12 hours 37:10 indicates 6:9
35:20,25 38:10 21:8 22:4 23:1 hypothetical 51:15
18:23 48:19 50:16,21 51:14 individual 4:16
22:20 granting 21:25 51:24 53:7 I 5:24 7:22 9:8,9
42:2 43:6 24:9 32:2 54:9,11,17 identical 6:11 9:16 11:5,6,9
45:19,24 48:11 55:24 56:9,11 10:4 13:25 11:10 12:6,10
55:16 gray 20:3 56:12 identified 29:5 12:11 13:13,19
52:1 interim 40:11 judge's 43:13 Kennedy 4:23 23:10,17,22
interlocutory judgment 18:17 5:3,13 21:3,19 34:12 35:15
13:8 31:14 39:4,8 judicial 24:25 50:11,18 51:10 51:5
40:8,18 48:16 26:20 27:4,10 key 14:16 34:3 late 46:23
10:15 55:4 39:7,24 40:4 17:9,16 18:5,9 14:19 15:3,11
12:7,11 interpretation 40:18,24 44:18 kind 6:18 11:3 17:5 18:2,17
13:2,18 55:1 56:7 44:20 48:17 24:16 43:16 26:11 42:14
20:22,25 interpreted 6:15 Justice 1:19 3:3 Kneedler 1:18 50:1 51:7 52:8
26:5,20 23:16 3:8 4:10,18,22 2:5 24:2,3,5 53:21
interpreting 4:23 5:3,13 6:3 25:7,16 29:3 laws 41:2
30:11 23:17,21 50:8 6:17 7:11 8:2 29:18 31:1 lawyer 11:15
31:7,13 interrupt 25:13 8:14,24 9:4,19 32:1,11,23 leave 31:8
39:5 involved 25:22 10:9,12,17 33:8 34:5,24 left 27:12 41:17
40:5,8 involves 6:20 11:2,12,22 35:21 36:5 legal 7:17 18:14
43:3 involving 28:9 12:2,15,18 37:3,12,15 18:16 43:12
43:18 14:6,20,23,25 38:22 39:1,18 48:2,2
55:21 irreparable 15:18,21 16:13 42:15 43:25 legalization
14:21 16:9 16:24 17:22,24 45:11,18,23 10:20,25
14:5 31:24 32:10,18 20:16 21:3,19 47:7,12,21,23 lesser 11:13
35:16 32:18,21 36:3 22:20 24:1,5 48:6,14 49:8 level 34:23
42:10 39:11 40:7 25:4,13 26:23 49:10 56:12 lightly 19:18
55:18 55:20 29:16 30:7,13 Kneedler's likelihood 4:5
31:10 25:18 28:6 33:6,17 34:19 knew 23:11 23:13 35:10
55:14 39:10 40:9,22 35:1,18 36:1 knock 27:18 50:22 55:19
45:3 48:2,2 36:13 37:4,14 knocking 28:19 limit 42:25
issues 48:13 41:6 42:2 43:6 knocks 27:6 20:4 29:7,21
29:23 jail 16:19 47:8,21 48:4 38:18,24,24 12:23
JEAN 1:3 49:9,15 50:6 knows 37:8 litigated 54:3
22:5 17:25 21:6 51:20 52:21 37:10 little 8:6 34:14
37:18 27:7 28:3,18 54:8,10,13,15 35:2 52:23
53:22 28:18 30:22 55:16 56:5,10 L 53:5
48:23 38:20 43:7 45:2 46:4,8,22 obviously 23:3 27:17 29:15
meant 12:4 48:9 49:18 occur 40:7 ordinarily 34:24
30:9 25:14,14 35:5 motions 44:10 Office 38:10 ordinary 31:17
40:10 meet 10:7,8 move 8:16 52:18 officer 25:10 original 8:21
52:23 28:20 33:24 murdered 18:1 Okay 4:22 9:4 originally 13:6
51:15,18,25 28:23 outright 51:3
52:1 nearly 6:10 opening 39:20 41:19,22
30:4 37:17 38:5,14 operation 42:18 P
9:8,16,23 10:6 50:6 52:5 12:7 53:21 part 18:10,13
14:9 minutes 49:11 norm 30:8 11:20 13:3 pending 3:12
18:17 miscommunic... normal 3:14,18 15:11,22 20:22 4:1 9:18 10:24
52:8 12:25 28:13 31:11 21:1 24:12 24:9 30:2
misplaced 40:13 42:7 25:11 26:3,14 39:12 40:3,18
28:24 29:1 notice 30:19 30:18,24 33:9 people 4:20
11:14 modifies 52:16 26:11 49:25 39:21,25 40:1 percentage 5:4,5
23:12 modify 52:16 50:1,2 40:3,22 41:18 5:6 35:23
41:18 moments 48:24 41:19,21,24 percentages
51:4 Monday 36:22 O 44:5,6,13,15 35:24
50:12,14,14 object 38:2 52:17 53:21 perforce 10:8
morning 49:1,3 objection 15:19 28:1 41:15,15 permanent 7:7
8:19,23 19:7 obtain 5:24 orders 6:10 permanently
16:6 potential 13:17 procedural 15:9 42:11,13,19 rate 5:10,11
power 19:19 15:19 17:12 45:9 47:20 read 27:12
16:9 practical 14:9 21:16 23:18 provisions 15:3 39:19
21:12 precise 40:2 27:22 29:5 16:15 26:1 reading 38:25
31:15 predictive 7:10 procedures 28:8 54:20 52:18
43:20 9:7 51:4 10:20 27:19,21 purpose 5:22 reaffirmed
preliminary 29:14 purposes 26:15 36:11
26:12 premature proceedings 8:5 30:9 41:18 realizing 25:11
36:15 46:23 8:16 21:10 44:6 really 6:21 7:12
39:20,25 preponderance 24:24 29:17 pursue 16:14 9:25 24:17
43:10 9:24 33:7,10 43:9 47:2 put 16:19 33:24 29:14 30:23
52:4 33:18,23 34:3 produced 45:4 36:21 35:3,5,13 39:9
44:23
3:7 34:1
45:22 presented 17:8 prohibited 9:11 56:19 reason 11:9 12:1
53:19 18:20 9:17 14:19 13:1 31:9
11:20 18:2 31:18 qualify 46:22 reasonable
6:21 presumption 53:20 9:15,16,17 reasonably
52:25 prevail 14:10 protected 16:7 41:7 43:6 45:4 recollection
26:23
32:17 44:22 22:19 39:15 quick 28:15 56:6 references 20:17
36:20,20 previously 6:11 provided 3:10 quickly 26:25 53:18
39:5 46:2 30:19 45:1 6:13 27:13 28:24 38:13 referencing 5:10
52:9,22 primary 3:17 30:6,7 41:3 referred 24:16
36:25 probability 13:25 20:4,10 40:10 48:1,8 40:4,17
47:15 8:11 24:10,25 ruling 39:12 46:14
6:20 8:9,16,19 27:10,17 29:7 S 31:11
10:23 16:3 44:4,10,20,21 31:6,8,11,14 Saint 54:21 seen 4:21 5:16
45:2 46:5 47:1 31:15 33:2,4,9 satisfies 32:20 sense 7:9 21:10
21:13 reopening 8:5 38:9 39:7,21 satisfy 32:7 21:20 28:17
31:14 repealed 41:12 39:24 40:4,19 saw 3:22 13:16 34:6
40:11 41:15 40:24 41:13,24 14:4 sent 16:14
55:14 replaced 6:8 43:10,16 44:12 saying 4:19 6:24 sentence 26:15
requests 7:19 44:18 48:17 7:12 28:19 separate 8:17
required 9:13 28:4 33:10,11 says 9:9 13:7 separated 42:8
46:15 32:3 right 8:14 11:5 27:24 28:2,3,9 40:14
requires 46:18 29:2 36:18 39:20,24,25 Services 10:19
7:3 respect 41:23 45:10 52:12 42:13,22 43:6 seven 49:11
8:4,9,11 44:10,10 54:10,11,16 49:25 51:5 Seventh 12:24
respectfully risk 21:13 50:2 53:17 35:19
10:23 49:19 road 21:13 scale 36:8 shape 17:2
respond 37:25 22:17 SCALIA 9:19 shifts 52:22
14:19 44:8 ROBERTS 3:3 10:9,12 11:12 short 21:25
Respondent 4:10,18,22 11:22 12:2,15 34:14 38:5
20:6,12 1:20 2:6 24:4 6:17 7:11 8:2 schedule 56:13 show 9:9,11
responses 24:18 8:14,24 9:4 season 56:15 22:13,14,15
26:4,14 39:1 11:2 14:6,20 second 3:24 10:1 32:4,4,15
30:18,21 restrain 20:11 14:23,25 15:18 25:14,25 35:8 34:14 35:9
31:20 20:14,17,19,20 15:21 16:13,24 39:5 52:9 37:21 44:13
41:9,14 40:3 42:22,23 20:16 24:1 section 24:8,8 50:22 51:9
restraining 31:21 35:18 24:11,22,25 showing 23:3
44:5 20:22 42:18 43:17 45:9,13 25:6 26:2,15 34:10 35:6,14
restraint 42:24 45:20 49:5,9 28:8 30:15 36:9,10 37:23
38:7 Souter 12:18 stated 10:3 54:6 55:6,7,11 successful 34:18
44:2 25:4,13 32:6 statement 4:9 55:15,21 56:8 successive 46:8
22:25 35:1 38:17,23 States 1:1,13 41:14 43:2 suffer 16:9
45:4 39:14 48:23 3:15 47:17 staying 44:20,21 suffering 22:13
52:6 speaks 29:22 status 18:25 stays 3:13 4:12 sufficient 33:22
29:17 8:18 11:1 13:5 55:2,5,11 suit 25:3
stage 9:14,23 21:20,22 38:24 17:22 47:21 10:6,11
12:3,8 standard 3:15 statutes 19:18 strict 13:16 Suppose 36:14
21:9 3:18 4:7 5:20 50:8 strikes 14:8 supposed 36:13
24:17 5:22,25 7:9,9 statutory 24:7 strong 4:4 22:14 37:11 42:12
40:15 7:19 9:6,14 26:17 39:3 22:15 50:24 43:19
47:11 11:8,13 13:15 40:21 study 5:17 Supreme 1:1,13
51:2 13:19,20,21 stay 3:11,18,20 subject 11:13 sure 4:11 54:13
20:6 16:3 22:5,6,9 5:23,25 6:2,4,7 47:16 40:1,3
22:18 23:20 6:9,12,13,16 subjects 18:7 suspended
42:3,7 44:9 21:7 23:15,18 29:22 take 4:2 13:4
26:17 53:9,15 55:12 38:19 39:10,16 substantive 52:25
34:9 55:16,17,20,22 39:21,25 40:1 37:20 talking 14:21
55:25 56:3 40:1,9,14 41:1 subtitle 13:15 20:21 27:15
44:18 10:4 14:23 45:24 48:9,12 success 4:5 talks 27:16,16
21:5 22:22 48:15,18,20,24 22:15,25 23:14 30:19
State 23:6 51:17 53:3 51:9 55:19 technical 46:2
43:5 44:10,24 two 8:17 10:4 U.S.C 3:10 Wednesday
20:22 thinking 28:7 type 4:12,13 30:23 31:3,4 46:12
40:9
41:1 Third 4:4 types 25:8 vacates 43:13 32:9 37:7
53:3
28:15 32:13 vacatur 3:25 wish 35:22
36:11,12 27:2 37:10 U versus 14:10 wonders 42:6
48:15 uh 35:21 20:21 word 20:13
time 6:6 10:1,14 33:17,18 38:19 31:18 42:24
37:16 38:4,8 34:2 violated 56:8 55:4,6,6,7,8,8
48:20 20:20 23:21 words 3:19,22
56:10 title 26:9 40:21 visa 46:17,17,19 33:19 55:22
torture 15:16 understand 4:18 47:13 work 30:14
27:11 tortured 15:4,22 33:2 42:9 44:1 works 38:11
30:14,22 traditional 4:17 56:6 W worrying 36:25
38:20 5:20,21,25 understanding wait 30:16 wouldn't 9:19
6:16 7:1 15:17 5:3 7:14 22:2 waiver 47:16 11:3,22 15:24
35:19 23:5,20 35:12 unfortunately 27:18 28:17 38:14 50:13,25
51:7 56:14 31:10 37:9 writ 23:19
8:2,12 13:24 14:2 47:17 48:12 52:9 wrong 53:6
25:22 unlawful 53:21 wanted 19:25 54:10
treat 56:2 unmistakably 39:3 46:25
19:16,24 treated 21:15 26:2 47:2,2 X
trial 34:23 unreasonably Washington 1:9 x 1:2,8
23:9 true 5:13 10:9 33:25 1:16,19
25:7,9 16:17 23:6 unreviewable wasn't 11:20 Y
29:2 50:21 29:8 18:4 yeah 28:22
30:15,16 try 26:19 34:12 use 23:22 55:4,6 way 6:24 7:5,12 year 50:15
31:1 trying 17:24 55:11 9:20 14:7 15:2 years 6:3 48:18
35:1,2 30:14 35:1 uses 30:11,20 22:23 31:11 young 19:3
37:1 turned 46:8 usual 21:9 33:24 35:2,11
40:23 twice 7:21 9:15
1:5
51:25 52:1,3
13:6,13 20:9 53:16 54:4,23
29:20 55:7
2:00 36:15
26:8 2:02 56:19
1:14 3:2 2005 54:1
20:3 2009 1:10
30:20 54:8 21 1:10
27:5 2349(b) 39:22
29:3,14 239(c) 23:18
9:2 24:25 24 2:6
43:9 28 26:9
26:6
6:8 3 2:4 3:21 10:11
13:23 14:1,3,5
23:23 38:19
3:17 39:16,19,20
42:3 55:9,17
4
25:20 4 42:18
24:21 4a 26:10
26:7,8 49 2:9
21:17
3:10 6:6 5
41:8 5 26:10 27:11,11
53:24
36:17
3:21 4:7 6:23 6
9:6 60 40:25
11:8
13:4,9,11 8
14:1 8 3:10 21:17
15:1
18:10 9
9 26:22
24:20 96 23:9 54:23
27:3
28:12,17
30:15
32:1,1
40:17
43:1,6
48:5
50:16
