IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
AMERICAN NEEDLE, INC., :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-661
NATIONAL FOOTBALL :
LEAGUE, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, January 13, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for
oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United
States at 10:08 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GLEN D. NAGER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting neither party.
GREGG H. LEVY ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GLEN D. NAGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.
On behalf of behalf of the United States,
as amicus curiae, supporting neither party 29
GREGG H. LEVY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 39
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GLEN D. NAGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 65
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:08 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 08-661, American
Needle v. The National Football League.
Mr. Nager.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GLEN D. NAGER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. NAGER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
In this case, the Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit held that an agreement of the 32 teams
of the National Football League was immune from any
scrutiny under section 1 of the Sherman Act on the
ground that the agreement allegedly fails the
plurality of actor requirement of this Court's
jurisprudence.
The 32 teams of the National Football League
are separately owned and controlled profit-making
enterprises. Under this Court's decision in NCAA, as
well as the Court's more general joint venture
jurisprudence, those clubs are entities whose distinct
agreements are, indeed, subject to section 1 scrutiny.
The fact of the matter is there is a long
standing consensus, judicial and legislative, that
agreements among sports teams about whether and how
they will participate in the marketplace is subject to
scrutiny under the Sherman Act, section 1.
The Court's decision in NCAA is most
directly on point. In that case, the Court held that
a policy of the NCAA that restricted the ability of
member institutions of the NCAA to sell TV rights
violated section 1. Just as with the NFL, the
decisions of the NCAA were ultimately controlled by
the vote of its members, and for that reason, the
Court held that the NCAA policy was a horizontal
restraint, and it --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there was no joint
venture with respect to the television rights, meaning
there was no separate activity, other than the
televising of the shows at issue. Here, the Solicitor
General is saying there is a joint venture, and it has
to do with the licensing of trademarks, with their
quality control, et cetera.
Isn't that a substantial difference?
MR. NAGER: No, I don't -- I don't think so,
because what we're -- what we're asking about here is
-- is the question of whether or not the agreement of
the teams involves a plurality of actors. And just as
in NCAA, the members' institutions -- because they
controlled the operation of the NCAA and the policy
that it was promulgating, there was a plurality of
actors.
So, too, here, the 32 teams of the National
Football League have entered into an agreement and
control the use, collectively, of the trademarks and
logos of the individual teams. And for that reason,
there is concerted activity that is involved.
Justice Sotomayor, the point that you raise
might be of -- a point of difference that the NFL
could argue in the context of an ancillary restraint
analysis, in the context of a rule of reason analysis,
but it's not a point of distinction that they can
argue properly in the context of the concerted conduct
inquiry.
The NCAA case simply applies the consistent
teachings of this Court in cases like Sealy, BMI, and
Copperweld, that separately owned and controlled
entities entering into agreements -- those agreements
constitute concerted conduct subject to scrutiny under
the antitrust laws. The --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does that cover
everything that the NFLA does? Because everything is
subject to agreement. It's all concerted action. So,
is everything under the Sherman Act, and then it goes
to rule of reason analysis? Or are there some things
that escape, entirely, antitrust analysis?
MR. NAGER: Certainly everything in the --
that's challenged in this case, because this involves
a restriction on the activities of the venturers
themselves. But more generally, I would -- I would
answer your question, Justice Ginsburg, to say that
yes, that everything that these 32 separately owned
and controlled teams joined together to do by -- in
concert, by agreement, by consent, is a contract.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Changes in the -- in the
rule apply? They make a change to make it -- give
the passer more protection, but there's -- this really
hurts certain teams, which mostly run, and so -- rule
of reason?
MR. NAGER: Yes, it is concerted activity.
I don't think it would be a plausible rule of reason
claim.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, how -- you know the
litigation system. How do we know?
MR. NAGER: Well, I think we know the
following, Justice Kennedy: That under this Court's
rule of reasons jurisprudence, a plaintiff has to be
able to plead an identifiable anticompetitive effect
in a market in which the defendant plausibly has
market power, and the -- the plaintiff also has to be
one who can --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, my -- my
hypothetical: Two or three teams which aren't
particularly popular in the league are hurt by the
rule change. And --
MR. NAGER: That --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And notice, there's --
that the owners sit around the room, they are liable
for a conspiracy. I mean, this is serious stuff.
Triple damages.
I don't -- and my question, really, was the
same as Justice Ginsburg's. Can you give us a zone
where we are sure a rule of reason inquiry will be --
would be inappropriate? We can take care of it on
summary judgment. Because if you don't have some sort
of section 1 carve-out for joint action, then -- then
everything is under the rule of reason.
MR. NAGER: Well, Justice Kennedy, let me
answer your question in two parts. First of all, to
the extent that the Court is looking for a zone, the
concerted conduct doctrine is the wrong place to do
it, because remember, if something is deemed not to be
concerted conduct, it is a per -- then it's per se,
not subject to section 1 and per se legal. And I
think for the Court's jurisprudence over the last
30 years, the Court has been trying to get out of per
se rules and have a more focused inquiry into what the
anticompetitive effects and pro-competitive effects of
a particular restraint are. The concerted conduct
doctrine would be a very blunt tool to use for that
purpose.
Now, that is not to say -- and I appreciate
your question -- in the NCAA case itself, where
conditions of competition and the like were raised,
Justice Stevens's opinion for the Court says that in
contrast to the TV restraint, these other types of
rules and regulations of the sports league are
presumptively competitive, pro-competitive,
presumptively favorable to consumers, because they are
integral and bound up with the creation of the
football venture itself.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me give you
another example that you mention in your brief. The
NFL teams agree among themselves regarding scheduling:
They'll play 16 games a year and they will have a
playoff schedule and they won't play any other games.
Now, would that be a clear case under the rule of
reason? You mention and some of your amici mention
that, for example, the English football leagues
operate very differently.
MR. NAGER: Justice Alito, if I -- I may not
have gotten all of your question, but let me answer it
in two parts. The antitrust laws do not require joint
ventures to maximize output. They don't require joint
ventures to maximize competition. They simply
prohibit people entering into contracts from
unreasonably restraining trade.
So a mere agreement among the team owners
that they would have a 14-game schedule rather than a
16-game schedule is not a prima facie showing of an
anticompetitive impact, because all it's showing us is
what the joint venturers have done with their own
output. They have -- you haven't alleged a
market-wide reduction in output. Now, if by your
question you were saying, in addition --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what if one of the
team wants -- one of the teams wants to play
additional games --
MR. NAGER: Well --
JUSTICE ALITO: -- against a rival team
where they will get more money?
MR. NAGER: What I -- what I was going to
jump right to is: If in addition to changing the
league schedule, the team owners in concert agreed to
prohibit the teams of the National Football League
from -- from playing any other games -- doing an
exhibition game in Japan, the Redskins and the Giants
playing another game -- that might show a market-wide
reduction in output. And the Court's decision in NCAA
says very specifically that the most important
condition of ensuring the competitiveness of joint
ventures is ensuring the freedom of the individual
venturers to produce output, increase output.
Now, that doesn't mean that a league rule of
that type would be unlawful. All I'm trying to
suggest is if, in addition to changing the schedule of
games for the league, they also imposed a restriction
on the individual venturers from producing additional
games on their own, we might have something that
looked more like a plausible rule of restraint --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They couldn't -- they
couldn't stop that team from joining another league?
Let's assume -- and I -- you know, I don't know enough
about football, but let's assume there are two leagues
playing. One of them plays on Saturday and the other
plays on Sunday. You're suggesting that the venture
couldn't stop their members from joining that other
league? What's the purpose of being in a venture if
-- if you are free to reject it and go to somewhere
else?
MR. NAGER: What I'm saying is, first of
all, it would plainly be concerted activity on the
part of the team owners because they would have
entered into a horizontal restraint on the activity of
the venturers. Whether or not that horizontal
restraint violated the antitrust laws, one would have
to go through the following analysis, Justice
Sotomayor: First, we would ask whether or not that
restriction is an ancillary -- an ancillary restraint.
And an ancillary restraint, starting with
Judge Taft, later Chief Justice Taft's, opinion in the
Addison Pipe case, is: Is that restraint reasonably
necessary to achieve the efficiency-enhancing purposes
of the joint venture and is it no broader than
necessary?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems --
MR. NAGER: And if it is, then we would
analyze that restraint by reference not only to its
own pro-competitive benefits and anticompetitive
effects; we would analyze it by reference to the
benefits of the joint venture as a whole.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, it seems to
me -- your last few answers seem to me to beg the
question. You start out by saying, well, obviously
it's a horizontal agreement among the teams, and then
you explain how you are going to analyze it.
I thought that was the very question before
us: Whether these sorts of rules and regulations are
horizontal agreements between the teams or whether
they are part of a particular -- a single entity's
articulation of rules.
MR. NAGER: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, you are
exactly right, and the real --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That you have been
begging the question? Is that -- that part?
(Laughter.)
MR. NAGER: Well, let me try to address
Justice Sotomayor's subsequent question in the context
of the way you are posing the question,
Mr. Chief Justice.
The reason it's a horizontal restraint is
because these -- under the Court's doctrine,
consistent teachings, whether it be Sealy, BMI,
Copperweld, these teams are separately owned. They're
separate decision-makers joining together, and they're
making a decision about how they are going to jointly
produce something or not produce something. And
that's what makes it concerted activity under this
Court's consistent teachings. The distinction between
unilateral activity under section 1 and concerted
activity under section 1 has consistently been the
distinction between ownership integration of assets --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Can I --
MR. NAGER: -- and contract integration of
assets.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Can I interrupt with this
question? Is it not part of your burden not only to
argue there are multiple actors, but also that their
agreement has an adverse effect on competition?
MR. NAGER: It -- absolutely, as the
plaintiff in the case, Justice Stevens, that we do.
That is not the ground of decision of the court below.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I understand it isn't, but
it is part of your burden to say that this is not a
pro-competitive agreement.
MR. NAGER: Absolutely. And I'm not --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But not -- not here.
MR. NAGER: In the -- I'm sorry, Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not here.
MR. NAGER: I -- I don't have to argue -- I
mean, I don't think I have to argue in this Court. I
just have to answer your questions, but --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, you at least have to
relate it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If -- if we find for you
and it goes back, then you would -- you would bear
that burden.
MR. NAGER: That's correct. And, in fact,
in this case, Justice Stevens, I would point out that
the NFL initially moved to dismiss the -- the rule of
reason count on the ground that it didn't state a
cognizable, plausible rule of reason claim, and the
district court judge denied that motion.
He found that the complaint alleged a market
in which he could not say, as a matter of law, that
the NFL defendants did not have market power, and he
recognized that the -- that the teams had agreed
together to prohibit competition in an aspect of their
licensing activity and in an aspect of their
merchandising activity.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How does it work?
JUSTICE STEVENS: But what if he -- what if
he further concluded that the agreement had the
overall effect of stimulating additional -- it was
pro-competitive in that it would equalize the economic
strength of the teams and, therefore, made them all
better competitors on the playing field? Would that
have been a defense?
MR. NAGER: I'm sorry, Justice Stevens, I'm
not quite sure. I thought you were saying if in the
response to a motion to dismiss --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right.
MR. NAGER: -- he had -- had held --
JUSTICE STEVENS: He said: Sure, there's an
agreement here, but the burden is on the plaintiff to
show that the agreement has an adverse effect on
competition. And that the -- as I understand the
facts, you've -- there's revenue sharing here, isn't
there? That they -- they all share in the product of
the sales of the joint product?
MR. NAGER: Well, let me explain what
they've done, and I will then explain why it does have
a -- identifiable anticompetitive effects, which
certainly satisfy the pleading standards for a rule of
reason claim.
What the teams did here was they got
together and they agreed that they would not
themselves individually license their trademarks or
logos. They agreed that they -- under -- the current
market system included the issuance of multiple
blanket licenses. They would eliminate all but one of
those blanket licenses from the market, and they would
give it in the exclusive control of Reebok, and they
would limit the circumstances in which they competed
against each other and with Reebok, and said --
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So I thought --
I thought -- as I read your complaint, almost every
word of it had to do with pro -- per se violations.
So I forget those here, right?
MR. NAGER: The per se violation was
dismissed and --
JUSTICE BREYER: You forget -- just yes or
no. I forget it. Okay.
MR. NAGER: -- is not before the Court.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, I've suddenly heard
you talk -- the only thing left I could see was where
you say, by their agreement to grant an exclusive
license to Reebok, they unreasonably restrained trade
in the markets. That's what I'm supposed to focus on?
MR. NAGER: Well, no. What I -- what I
would say, Justice --
JUSTICE BREYER: What other paragraph do you
want me to focus on?
MR. NAGER: Well, what I would point you to
is the statement -- I mean, if --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm interested in the
complaint at the moment.
MR. NAGER: What the complaint talks about
is the granting of an exclusive license here.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Okay. So I'm looking
at the complaint.
MR. NAGER: -- with the exclusivity as to --
JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. I get the point.
I'm asking a question. And I just heard you say that
you want, for example, were it -- you want the
Patriots to sell T-shirts in competition with the
Saints, or whoever. The Red Sox. All right. You see
the point? The Red Sox -- I know baseball better.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: You want the Red Sox to
compete in selling T-shirts with the Yankees; is that
right?
MR. NAGER: The ability to compete. Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Okay. I don't know a
Red Sox fan who would take a Yankees sweatshirt if you
gave it away.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I don't know where
you're going to get your expert from that is going to
say there is competition --
MR. NAGER: Well --
JUSTICE BREYRE: -- between those two
products. I think they would rather -- they would
rather wear a baseball, a football, a hockey shirt.
MR. NAGER: I understand the -- the point.
JUSTICE BREYER: But you're going to go back
and prove that actually there is competition between
those --
MR. NAGER: Well, I understand the point you
are making. I would also make the point that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that what this case is
about?
MR. NAGER: In part. But you've got to
recognize what the competition is for. The
competition is for fans. And the fact of the matter
is you're right that someone who has lived in New York
City for a long time is unlikely to be a Red Sox fan
and easily be persuaded to be a Red Sox fan, but the
person who is 3 years old can easily be persuaded.
JUSTICE BREYER: They have very small
allowances, the 3-year-olds.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. You think -- I
guess you have a right to that. I'm not -- you have a
right, but that's what you're going to have to try --
MR. NAGER: Well --
JUSTICE BREYRE: -- to prove: That they're
--
MR. NAGER: But the other point I would make
is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
Mr. NAGER: -- that's just showing that each
team has substantial market power.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
Mr. NAGER: And again, they --
JUSTICE BREYER: But I'm trying to look --
what I'm trying to get in my mind is what specific
restraint you are focusing on.
You listed three or four, and one of them is
you want, in effect -- I'm joking about it, but it's
true -- you are arguing that the Yankees should
compete with the Red Sox in selling shirts.
Another thing you are complaining about,
which is the one I understand less, is that these
teams got together and they agreed that they would
just have one person sell all this stuff together.
And what you think is that they individually should
have decided whether to choose that one person, or
maybe to choose two people, or three.
MR. NAGER: We --
JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right?
MR. NAGER: Not quite.
JUSTICE BREYER: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Nager, do I have to
figure this out here? Is --
MR. NAGER: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is this issue before us
here? Or is it just the issue of whether the lower
court was wrong to dismiss your suit on the basis that
this is a unitary operation?
MR. NAGER: You're --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that was the only
issue.
MR. NAGER: That is the only issue,
Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why am I worrying
about this other stuff?
MR. NAGER: Because counsel has an
obligation to respond to questions.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: I find --
MR. NAGER: I appreciate, Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER: I find it easier --
Mr. NAGER: You'd be a good blocker.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- to think about the case
if I know what's going on. And I'm not certain this
is irrelevant, but given Justice Scalia's persuasive
remark, I will withdraw my question.
(Laughter.)
MR. NAGER: Thank you, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but it seems to me
what we are doing is exploring the consequences of
completely discarding the unitary theory.
MR. NAGER: Well, we're not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And so -- and the earlier
questions, it seemed to me, were helpful. The
Saturday/Sunday scheduling issue, it seems to me,
pretty clearly on its face does limit competition.
You -- you have one day instead of two days.
Then Justice Stevens said: Suppose it makes
them better players because they are rested and so
they can perform better. I take it that was the
purpose of the question. And I -- I still don't get
any answers. I don't know where we are with this.
MR. NAGER: The answer to --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and it's a
difficult area, but I'd like -- and -- but I'd like
some guidance.
MR. NAGER: Well, the guidance I would give
you, Justice Kennedy, is that as Justice Scalia says,
the only question before the Court is whether or not
these agreements constitute concerted activity. They
plainly do, because they are agreements between
separately owned and controlled competing businesses.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Nager, I think you
answered my question originally: Yes, everything.
Because they are separate entities, they agree on
everything. There's agreement in every case. So
there's nothing that you would take outside, and you
put everything under the rule of reason analysis.
MR. NAGER: That -- that is correct. But
that doesn't mean that the rule of reason is some
unstructured, indeterminate --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: One -- one concern in the
litigation is, you know, if it doesn't come under the
Sherman Act at all, they go home after the case is
dismissed on the -- on the pleadings.
But once you say no, it's got to be a rule
of reason analysis, then you have discovery, which can
be costly. And I thought that that was a feature of
this case, that the -- that the plaintiff wanted more
discovery, and the court said: You've had enough.
MR. NAGER: Well, no. The -- the judge only
allowed discovery on the single entity issue. He did
not allow discovery on -- on the rule of reason
question. So there's been -- not been -- discovery on
the substance of the case has not been conducted.
So in that regard, the question of how the
case would be managed going forward is something that
would be in the hands of the district court on remand
from this Court and the court of appeals, after this
erroneous conclusion that the agreements don't
constitute concerted conduct is put to the side.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, could you
articulate for me as succinctly as possible the extent
to which your position departs from the position of
the Solicitor General?
MR. NAGER: The Solicitor General's position
is correct insofar as it criticizes the Seventh
Circuit's reasoning.
The test that the Solicitor General proposes
is conceptually and doctrinally unsound, and it will
create a lack of clarity where there presently exists
clarity in the cases, and it will produce inefficiency
and waste in the conduct of litigation that does not
presently exist. And I could give --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I would have
thought it's just the transfer of the inefficiency and
lack of clarity from the -- the first question to the
rule of reason. I mean, I'm not quite sure it -- you
don't have the same problem. It's just a question of
where you want to rest the inefficiency and confusion.
MR. NAGER: Well, I understand your point,
Mr. Chief Justice: That to the extent that rule of
reason inquiries are not as refined as they need to
be, since the Solicitor General's concerted conduct
inquiry includes rule of reason inquiries -- indeed,
on its effective merger standard, it says it has to
survive a rule of reason analysis or somehow be
waived, or you would have to do it as part of the
concerted conduct inquiry, so that there is no doubt
to the extent that -- that the rule of reason is a
continuing project of this Court, we would be
transferring some of that project into the concerted
conduct inquiry.
With all respect, Mr. Chief Justice, I don't
think that would be a healthy development in the law.
The courts actually understand the concerted conduct
doctrine as it presently exists.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I -- I thought
the purpose of their submission was to respond to some
of the questions we've seen, like scheduling, like
what the rules are going to be about, about the game.
There are some things that it just seems odd to
subject to a rule of reason analysis. And you
yourself have said: Well, that's going to be an easy
case under the rule of reason. Why doesn't it make
sense to sort of carve those out at the outset, rather
than at the end of the case?
MR. NAGER: Well, I think the answer is, you
should -- you should use English language and doctrine
to address the issue that you are actually trying to
address, rather than call it something else.
Right now, we have an antitrust doctrine
that says you've got to have concerted conduct and you
have to have an unreasonable restraint of trade. We
have courts that understand how to apply this Court's
cases on concerted conduct. This Court, for
understandable reasons, is sensitive to the fact that
the rule of reason is not quite as well understood and
is an evolutionary doctrine, perfectly well understood
by me.
There are certain issues this Court has
said come up in a rule of reason analysis and, to
quote the Court from Cal. Dental, "can be dealt with
in the twinkling of an eye"; that is, some claims, as
the NCAA Court said, are not going to be serious rule
of reason claims and can be dismissed on the
pleadings. The Court said that in Twombly as well.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And as I understand your
position, that could be the result in this case. We
don't know whether the district court was right or
wrong in what he did on the -- on the rule of reason
issue.
MR. NAGER: In terms of what this Court --
obviously, on my client's behalf, I have to vigorously
state to the Court we think we have a bona fide,
serious rule of reason claim -- but, yes, Justice
Stevens --
JUSTICE STEVENS: And one thing I wondered
about the record: There is discussion in the briefs
about the fact that the teams share the revenues from
these -- these sales. Is that -- how did that get in
the record, the revenue sharing aspect of their -- of
the different teams' participation?
MR. NAGER: Well, I -- I didn't handle the
case below, so I don't quite know how it got into the
record. It is my -- certainly my understanding that
there is an affidavit in the record that says that the
revenues that the NFLP entity receives are distributed
to the teams in equal shares, so that that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would -- wouldn't that --
that affidavit support the conclusion that this is
basically a pro-competitive agreement because it tends
to make competition stronger on the playing field,
and, therefore, that's a sufficient defense under the
rule of reason, and that's the end of the ball game?
MR. NAGER: I -- I think not. You have to
remember that that agreement to not compete and have
only one entity --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but you are not just
competing --
MR. NAGER: That's the very thing the case
challenges.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But with regard to sales
of the paraphernalia and so forth that you have here,
you're not just competing among the members of the
league; you're competing in a market that includes all
sports paraphernalia.
MR. NAGER: No, our market was alleged and
held not to be legally invalid by the district court,
to be NFL-logoed hats and apparel.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That assumes there is no
competition between the sales of those logos and the
sales of other sports logos.
MR. NAGER: Well, that -- that's correct.
And the district court judge held that that was a --
based upon this Court's decision in NCAA and the
International Boxing case, was a plausible market to
allege in which the NFL teams had market power. And
so it would be a question for the district court
managing the case going forward to determine whether
or not that was a factually supportable market.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, you -- the
Solicitor General is asking us to remand under his new
test to find out whether you are challenging the joint
venture or challenging simply the licensing to one
individual or one entity. What are you doing? Do you
have an answer to that?
MR. NAGER: Well, the -- the answer is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Meaning -- I don't --
MR. NAGER: I understood -- that the
American Needle said in the court below that what it
was challenging was the grant of an exclusive license
to NFLP that prohibited the individual team
competition and limited all competition in the market
in blanket licenses.
When the case came to this Court, on page 2
of the orange brief, the NFL said they understood
exactly what our case was -- this is on page 2, the
second sentence: "American Needle alleged that the
decades-old agreement among the member clubs to
collectively market such intellectual property was
unlawful under Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, at
least after the 2001 decision to collectively license
the marks to a single headwear manufacturer."
The NFL stood -- understood exactly what we
were arguing, and they have understood it throughout
this case, as did the lower courts. I'm not quite
sure why the Solicitor General doesn't understand it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is your point that your
client wasn't hurt until they dealt exclusively with
one manufacturer?
MR. NAGER: That's correct,
Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you have nothing --
you had no damages before?
MR. NAGER: Before.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Nager.
Mr. Stewart.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES
AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING NEITHER PARTY
MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
I think that by focusing on a rather mundane
aspect of the NFL commissioner's powers, this may help
to explain why the United States is not four-square in
support of either party's theory in this case. Among
the powers that is vested in the commissioner by the
NFL -- by the NFL constitution is the power to incur
expenses to carry on the ordinary business of the
league, and this includes renting office space, hiring
employees, and procuring supplies.
And if the commissioner, pursuant to that
delegation of authority, decides from which company
he's going to -- to acquire paper for the league's
offices or decides what the wage scale for secretaries
in the league offices should be, our view is that
that's the conduct of a single entity. It may be that
the commissioner's power to do those things is
ultimately derived from the consent of the individual
teams within the league, but once that consent has
been given, once that authority has been centralized,
then the commissioner's decision about a paper
supplier or wages for employees --
JUSTICE BREYER: And then the question I
have -- I now understand this much better in light of
that. And -- but I don't -- and -- and I see your
point. What I'm not certain about is: Is it better
to characterize it as a single entity, in which case
we get into the kind of confusion that I think exists
in this case? Or just say, look, it's a joint
venture?
If Panagra creates a joint venture, of
course they are going to buy things like office space
and employees, so it's reasonable by definition. We
don't even look into it. Those things that are close
enough -- take your criteria from 17, page 17, which
are excellent criteria in my mind, and you say these
are the criteria by which we decide whether those
ancillary parts of a joint venture that is itself
reasonable are also reasonable.
MR. STEWART: I guess we would say two
things: The first is, up to now there has been no
such thing in the law as concerted action that is per
se legal or per se reasonable.
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. We wouldn't say
per se. We are saying that the justification here:
They are reasonable. Why are they reasonable?
Because there is a legitimate joint venture, and this
is an ancillary part of that legitimate joint venture.
People can attack it, but it's going to be
no easier to attack than if they tried to attack what
you call a single entity.
MR. STEWART: I guess my point is that if,
for instance, a disappointed bidder for the paper
supply conduct -- contract challenged this as a
section 1 violation and said the commissioner's
decision to go to Staples rather than Office Depot was
unreasonable --
JUSTICE BREYER: I see.
MR. STEWART: -- because Office Depot was
offering a better product at a lower price -- that
there are certainly decisions that the commissioner
could make with respect to procurement of supplies or
the setting of wage levels that would be unreasonable
in a business judgment sense, in that they wouldn't
effectively carry on the mission of the organization,
but they wouldn't be unreasonable in the -- the
section 1 sense.
And the other thing I would say is that line
of argument could have been made in Copperweld; that
is, the Court could have concluded that --
JUSTICE BREYER: Copperweld -- look, your
second criteria opens it up to attack in precisely the
same way that my use of rule of reason does, because
they are going to have to show it doesn't
significantly affect actual or potential competition.
Therefore, they file their claim; they say they win
under the second criteria. That's precisely the same
as a person filing his claim and saying it's
unreasonable.
We are only talking terminology, but what
worries me about this is the terminology, because I
think that the lower courts have taken Copperweld
terminology and transferred it to a place where it
does, I think, perhaps not belong.
MR. STEWART: Well -- well, in Dagher, for
instance, the Court was dealing with a situation
that's in some ways analogous to the one that you have
here; that is, a joint venture in which entities that
were economic competitors in some aspects of their
businesses joined forces with respect to other
aspects. And the Court in Dagher didn't squarely
resolve these questions, whether section 1 applied,
but it said that in pricing its products, Equilon, the
joint venture, was acting as a single firm, a single
entity.
The other point I would like to make
about my -- my paper and employee example is that, in
our view, the NFL commissioner, when carrying out
those functions on behalf of the league, would be
acting as a single entity, even though his power was
derived from the consent of the teams. But if the Jets
and the Giants agreed among themselves as to what
wages they would pay their secretaries or from whom
they would buy paper, that would be an entirely
different thing. The fact that those teams are for
some purposes part of a --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you this
question, Mr. Stewart? Would the antitrust issue
before us be any different if instead of giving an
exclusive contract to one purveyor of the product, the
commissioner had entered into a multitude of different
contracts, but specified a minimum price in every one
he specified?
MR. STEWART: I think the section -- the
question of whether section 1 applied would not be any
different; that is, the central section 1 that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So the fact that this is
an exclusive agreement is kind of a red herring in
this case, isn't it?
MR. STEWART: It -- it may not be a red
herring with respect to the ultimate resolution of the
case; that is, if the court on -- the lower court, on
remand, if the case were remanded, applied rule of
reason analysis, the -- the precise nature of the
contract might bear on whether the restraint was
reasonable, but it wouldn't bear on the question of
whether concerted activity was involved; that is,
what --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't -- I'm
sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt your answer.
MR. STEWART: I guess my point was, once --
once the teams decided that they would -- rather than
each negotiating individually, either with a single
licensee or with multiple licensees, once they decided
they would negotiate as a collective and that any
potential licensee had to go to the collective rather
than to the individual teams, that's the central
section 1 issue. And if the -- the collective had
decided, we will give contracts to a multitude of
potential bidders, that would not have affected the
fact that concerted action was involved.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So under your --
following of your paper case, are you saying that if
the teams delegated to the commissioner the authority
to decide whether we are going to enter -- whether the
league is going to enter into one contract on logo
products or let each team decide, that would be all
right?
MR. STEWART: That would -- that initial
delegation of authority would be subject to a
section 1 challenge, because that would be concerted
action in the same way that the Court in Dagher
said --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why isn't the
decision to order paper from one company rather than
another subject to section 1 challenge?
MR. STEWART: Because that -- that occurs
after the point at which the commissioner has been
vested with that authority.
If somehow a plaintiff wanted to say there
was an -- there was illicit concerted action when the
teams agreed to give the commissioner this general
power, that would be subject to section 1 review. It
seems -- because that would be concerted action. It
seems highly unlikely that such a challenge would
prevail. But if --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is that? I
mean, if I'm Office Depot and I'm selling paper to
the -- to the Giants -- or does this only apply to the
commissioner's office?
MR. STEWART: This only applies to carrying
out the ordinary business of the league. It -- it
would only apply to the commissioner's running of --
of the league office, not the running of the
individual teams. And as I say, our central point is
that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could -- using your
example, could you tell me what the different
questions would be under the single control theory
you're proposing and a rule of reason application in
its normal course? So, what are the questions you
would ask under your theory, and how do they differ
from what would happen under a rule of reason
analysis?
MR. STEWART: I guess under our theory, we
would first ask, as to an entity like this, which is
entities that compete in some respects with --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's -- let's not go
into this case. Let's -- let's stay with your single
commissioner.
MR. STEWART: I think we would ask first:
Is -- is the commissioner acting as a single entity
when he exercises delegated authority in making a
business judgment about which supplier to buy paper or
what the wages should be?
If the answer is yes, then the section 1
inquiry is over, then the case is no different from a
challenge to the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, how does that stop
any group of competitors from coming in and saying:
Gee, I want to sell my gas; I'm going to let this
single commissioner decide how much my gas will sell
for, and if he chooses to sell it at the same price to
everybody, both gas products, that's okay. How do you
get to that?
MR. STEWART: Well, I think if a single
business is deciding whether to buy paper from one
supplier or from several, that wouldn't be subject to
section 1 review, because the decision of the single
business might affect the welfare of the competitors,
but it wouldn't be concerted action.
And our point is that when -- I think the
way in which our position differs from that of the two
parties is that on the one hand, I think it is the
logical implication of Petitioner's position that
because the commissioner's authority to buy supplies
for the league or hire referees for the league is
ultimately derived from the consent of the individual
teams who are independently owned, the logic of
Petitioner's position suggests that that would be
subject to section 1 scrutiny.
On the other hand, the logic of the NFL's
position suggests that because the commissioner can
set price, can decide from whom to buy paper on behalf
of the league, the Jets and the Giants could reach a
similar agreement, and the -- or the Jets and the
Giants could agree on the prices they will pay
secretaries --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, no, no,
because they are not part of the broader concerted
entity. There's no separate -- you're saying, well,
just because all 32 teams can act as -- as an
individual entity, any group of those teams can act as
an individual entity.
MR. STEWART: I think that follows logically
from the position that this is one entity. Because in
Copperweld, for instance, the Court noted that
coordination between different divisions of a single
company would not be subject to section 1 scrutiny,
and that implies not just that all the divisions could
get together, but that any two could confer among
themselves without raising section 1 concerns.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Levy.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGG H. LEVY
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. LEVY: Good morning, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The formation of a professional sports
league, like the formation of any joint venture, may
be subject to section 1 scrutiny. Were it not for an
act of Congress, the merger of the National Football
League and the American Football League in 1970 would
be one such example. But there is no challenge to
venture formation here.
There is no dispute that the NFL, including
its licensing arm, NFL Properties, is a lawful
venture. If venture formation is not an issue, then
decisions by the venture about the venture's product
are unilateral venture decisions, unilateral venture
actions. They are not concerted actions of the -- of
the venture's members.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, do we have to ask
what was the intent at the beginning, as kind of an
originalism thing? Everybody sits around and says:
Let's have a football league. And 20 years later,
they say: You know, the sale of hats and shirts is a
pretty good thing; let's get into that business, too.
That would -- that would -- that's case 1.
Case 2 is, when they formed the league
initially, 30 years ago, they said: And be sure we
will sell hats, and -- I don't understand the base
point from which I find that this is a single entity.
MR. LEVY: Your Honor, we know here that at
least as of 1963, when NFL Properties was formed, that
there was a single entity formed, a single entity to
produce and promote NFL football.
Now, I take issue with your suggestion --
your implication that there was a decision made here:
Let's set up a separate line of business; we are going
to sell hats also. That's not what happened, and the
record on that is unambiguously clear here. It's
undisputed. Clubs --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, do you take issue
with my question that this is a relevant inquiry? Is
it part of the original agreement or isn't it, and why
is it that the original agreement is somehow
sacrosanct? I don't understand.
MR. LEVY: I'm not suggesting that the
original agreement is sacrosanct. That's why I
suggested that by 1963 -- or the mid-1960s, when NFL
Properties was formed, there was venture formation at
that point.
At that point, what was the question? The
question was: How should the league, how should the
venture members, best promote the venture product?
And the decision was made to use the licenses of their
intellectual property as a promotional tool.
On that issue, the discovery and the record
below was undisputed. There is documentary evidence
from the NFL Properties' articles of incorporation.
There's testimony from an NFL executive, Mr. Herzog.
And the best proof, if there were any question about
that, is reflected in the -- the organic documents of
NFL Properties, which at the outset said that, if
there were any revenues from the licensing activities,
they would be donated to charitable and educational
causes.
Now, you know, Dagher confirmed the general
principle, but if the venture is lawfully formed, the
venture's decisions about how best to produce and
promote its product are venture decisions, not the
decisions of the venture members.
But Copperweld provides the framework that
decides the issue here, and neither Mr. Stewart nor
Mr. Nager mention Copperweld, except in passing.
Copperweld is the case by which this Court turned the
page, if you will, on the formalism of prior cases,
including Sealy, which Mr. Nager --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: May -- may I ask you to
go back just one step? Because you seem to treat this
as though the NFLP was formed in 1963 and that was the
end of it, but another description is: Well, it was
formed, but then there were some teams that were not
in it until later, and there were some other parts,
that it has expanded. What it does has expanded since
1963.
So it wasn't one point in time where there
was formation, and then if you didn't -- if you're not
challenging that, everything else is okay.
MR. LEVY: Well, I -- I don't disagree with
that, Your Honor. I think that in 1970, the league
expanded. There was a merger. That merger of the
National Football League and the American Football
League would have been subject to section 1 challenge
because it involved venture formation, but an act of
Congress said that that wasn't necessary.
After 1970, there have been six teams, I
believe, that have been added, essentially created, if
you will, like Adam's rib. They have been created
from the other NFL clubs, but it's essentially the
same venture. The venture has expanded its production
capability by adding new teams. It's expanded its
output by adding new teams.
And the role of licensing of intellectual
property throughout that process has remained the
same. The role has been to promote the venture's
product. It's not --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. Did the
teams -- did the NFL Properties or some centralized
entity always exploit the trademarks of all the
franchises, or was there a long period of time in
which they each individually franchised their
products?
MR. LEVY: The record, Your Honor, says --
reflects that there was very little exploitation of
intellectual property of the franchises prior to the
creation of NFL Properties.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there was some, and
that was done by the individual teams?
MR. LEVY: It was done, and it was done -- I
mean, that's sort of an historic artifact. It was
done, I believe collectively, through Roy Rogers
Enterprises. But the -- but the teams continued to
own their intellectual property. That's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: The problem, as I see, for
you in this case is that the basic conclusion is in
the court of appeals, where it says: "Viewed in this
light, the NFL teams are best described as a single
source of economic power when promoting NFL football
through licensing." Well, how do we know that?
MR. LEVY: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: Their allegation is that
that isn't true. And I have -- and Copperweld just
seems to me to be very confusing on this, since --
since my hornbook knowledge of it was we have
Copperweld to deal with the case that we don't make
booths in department stores compete in price against
each other. All right?
Normally, however, we say independent
vendors can't get together and say they fix prices.
That's per se. And joint ventures are in the middle,
so we apply a rule of reason.
Now, very simple. I thought that has been
the law since Panagra. I don't know what, in fact,
Copperweld has to do with it. And they are saying
that this basic joint venture for promoting is not a
reasonable agreement. So why shouldn't they have
their shot? You might well win, but they want to make
that claim.
MR. LEVY: The reason we know that this is
not your typical joint venture is because Copperweld
established a standard that said that what section 1
is intended to regulate is not matters of form, not
general market conditions, but rather the sudden
joining together of independent sources of economic
power. That's --
JUSTICE BREYER: Fine, but that's the
conclusion here. That's not the -- that's the
conclusion. The question is: Should they be
permitted to join their centers of economic power into
one when they promote and sell their T-shirts,
sweatshirts, et cetera?
MR. LEVY: But --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, you can't answer that
question by announcing the conclusion.
MR. LEVY: But, Your Honor, we know that
they are not independent sources of economic power,
because none of them can produce the product of the
venture on their own. No NFL club can produce a
single unit of production, a single game or --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, can't it ask someone
to do that?
Oh. Oh, you are saying the game.
MR. LEVY: That's -- that's right.
JUSTICE BREYER: What does a game to do with
this? I thought we were talking about T-shirts and
helmets, and I -- I thought it's the simplest thing in
the world. You pick up the phone and say: Hello,
Shanghai, do you have a helmet?
(Laughter.)
MR. LEVY: Your Honor, if -- if this were a
venture designed to go out and license or manufacture
or distribute caps, you'd be right. But this is
different, and we -- the undisputed evidence in the
record below demonstrates it's different.
It's different because the purpose of the
licensing here is to promote the product. It's to
promote the game. And the NFL member clubs are not
independent sources of economic power in generating
that game.
JUSTICE BREYER: This is a summary judgment
motion?
MR. LEVY: Yes. It was a summary judgment.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the stated purpose is
to promote the game. The purpose is to make money. I
don't think that they care whether the sale of the
helmet or the T-shirt promotes the game. They -- they
sell it to make money from the sale.
MR. LEVY: I --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, it promotes the game
if the money from the sale goes to the whole group, I
suppose. But -- but don't tell me that there is not
-- absent this agreement, there would not be an
independent, individual incentive for each of the
teams to sell as many of its own -- of its own shirts
and helmets as possible.
MR. LEVY: Your Honor, I'd agree with you
100 percent that the purpose of the licensing is to
make money, but not necessarily to make money through
the royalties. The purpose of the licensing is to
improve and promote the attractiveness of the game
product, to get more people interested in watching the
games on television, to get more people interested in
buying tickets to the game.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I suppose that --
that could -- that issue could be tried.
MR. LEVY: And --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But I don't -- I don't
think so. And I suppose that's a triable issue, as to
whether the purpose of -- of selling these things is
to promote the whole NFL or to promote the particular
team.
MR. LEVY: And --
JUSTICE SCALIS: It wants its own adherents
and wants to sell its own product.
MR. LEVY: In the abstract, that's a triable
issue, Your Honor, but not here. Here, the record was
undisputed. There's evidence in the record on that
point. The record -- there was evidentiary -- there
was documentary evidence. There's evidence that goes
back to the organic documents of NFL Properties. And
as I mentioned before, in the early days, the -- the
net revenues, if any, the net royalties of the
licensing operations went to charity. So there's no
-- there's no question here. Discovery was allowed on
this issue, and the record is undisputed.
So we have a classic case, a perfect, clean
opportunity for this Court to apply the principles of
Copperweld and the principles of Dagher to an area of
the law that has been troubled for many years. Since
1984, the courts have wrestled with the question of
how to deal with professional sports leagues and
section 1 claims against professional sports leagues.
And the cases the courts have been -- have
-- and with the exception of this case and the Bulls
II case, the courts have been guided principally by
pre-Copperweld precedent that rests on an era of
formalism, an era when even an agreement between a
parent and its subsidiary --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What decision could the
sports teams make that would be subject to the
antitrust scrutiny under your definition of the
permissible range of the joint venture activities? It
seems to me that if the venture wanted to make sure
all the teams hired secretaries at the same
$1,000-a-year salary, that under your theory, that's
okay, because it's a joint venture.
MR. LEVY: Your Honor, my view is that the
-- the NFL clubs are not separate sources of
independent power. As a result, they are a unit.
They are a single entity, and it's a --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So the answer to my
question is there is -- you are seeking through this
ruling what you haven't gotten from Congress: an
absolute bar to an antitrust claim.
MR. LEVY: No, Your Honor, that's not right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So -- so answer my
question. What decision --
MR. LEVY: The direct answer to your
question is this: With regard to section 1 claims --
let's put aside section 2 claims. Let's put aside
claims between the NFL and other leagues. Let's put
aside claims that relate to nonventure conduct, like
the example of creating a trucking company that's
reflected in our brief.
The -- I can understand an argument, and we
suggested as much in our brief below, that if the
league engages in a practice of representing itself,
going to the market -- the clubs go to market as
independent entities. I can see an argument that
would basically say, based on estoppel principles,
that they should not be able to agree on -- on uniform
prices or uniform wages for secretaries, for example.
We did -- we made the point in our brief in
the context of -- of coaches. But even -- even in the
context of coaches, put aside for a moment, section 2
remains available to the coaches if in fact they can
demonstrate that there has been monopolization or
attempted monopolization of a market.
But the line that I draw is the line between
production and promotion of the game. Coaches are
closer to production and promotion of the game than
secretaries, but I -- you know, there may be some --
some gap there. But -- but as long as the NFL clubs
are -- are members of a unit; if they compete as a
unit in the entertainment marketplace, as -- to use
the language that Justice Rehnquist used -- they
should be deemed a single entity and not subject to
section 1 --
JUSTICE BREYER: But now the question is:
Are you basing that on economic-related data about the
pros and the cons of -- you know, the economic harms
of stopping them from competing versus the economic
benefits of allowing them to act as a separate -- as a
single entity? Or are you basing it on a pure legal
word called "single entity"?
And what worried -- I thought when I read
the opinion, first, of the district court, that he's
just following what I think started in the Seventh
Circuit, unfortunately, of taking this word "single
entity" and throwing around -- throwing it around all
over the place and stopping the economic analysis.
But then when I read the last paragraphs of
his opinion, he seems to be saying, when I go back to
the record, which you want me to do, I will discover
that there is lots of information showing economic
benefit to this venture of promoting together.
There's nothing to suggest they could compete, and so
it's clear, to the point where they don't get to
trial, that this is a reasonable agreement.
All right. Now, is -- have I -- am I right
in thinking what you are thinking?
MR. LEVY: That's not my position, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Good. Then I
want to know what your position is.
MR. LEVY: My position is based on the
intended scope of the Sherman Act, section 1 of the
Sherman Act, which this Court, in Copperweld, made
clear. The principle is articulated five or six
separate times in the Copperweld opinion that section
1 of the Sherman Act is intended to regulate the
sudden joining together of separate sources of
economic power. That's --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes --
MR. LEVY: That's not this case.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I wouldn't read --
can you read Copperweld as follows? Copperweld is
ratifying a decision by an entrepreneur or several to
organize his entrepreneurial entity as one where there
are obvious efficiencies in doing that, such as it
would obviously be inefficient to have the sales
people behind counters in a single department store
competing with each other in price.
A joint venture is a situation where it's
debatable whether or not there is that kind of
efficiency in organization, and, therefore, we apply a
rule of reason. That's Panagra. I don't see anything
in Copperweld that's intended to overrule Panagra.
And as long as Panagra is not overruled, we would
apply, at least to major decisions by joint ventures,
a rule of reason.
Now, what is wrong with -- and you might
still win on the rule of reason. But why isn't that
analysis correct? I'm putting it forward as a
hypothesis for you to discuss.
MR. LEVY: The analysis is not correct
because there has been no challenge to venture
formation here. I don't disagree that if there had
been a challenge to venture formation here, that the
considerations that you identify with regard to
Panagra would apply. But that's not the case here.
There's really no ambiguity about what has been
challenged here.
JUSTICE BREYER: There is very definitely a
joint venture here to play football, but there isn't a
joint venture to build houses, and there isn't a joint
venture obviously in sight to promote.
So they're saying that there's such a
different activity, the playing of football versus the
promotion of a logo, that we ought to go and look
under a rule of reason as to whether a joint venture
in promoting a logo is justified in terms of
competition's harms and economic benefits.
MR. LEVY: Justice Breyer, I agree with you
that there is a difference, an important difference,
between venture and nonventure activity. If the NFL
clubs were to create a trucking company or, in your
example, would go off and build houses, that's not a
venture activity.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it would be if they
tried to do it, but, there, they would be attacked on
the ground that under the rule of reason, they do not
have the justification such that the antitrust law
would allow them to do it.
MR. LEVY: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: And they are saying: And
promoting is precisely the same. That's why it seems
to me to be something that you can't decide in theory.
It's a matter of going back to economic facts with
witnesses and so forth.
MR. LEVY: Your Honor, the ancillary
restraints doctrine would enable the court, in the
circumstance that you describe, to categorize the
decision to build housing as a non-venture activity --
a non-venture decision, and, therefore, it would be
evaluated independently of the considerations that
apply to the venturers' objective.
But, here, you cannot separate the -- the
venture activity of -- of -- for both football --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, but you -- you
certainly could because they certainly could --
theoretically, each club could sell its own logo.
MR. LEVY: Each -- of course, each club
could sell its own logo, Your Honor, but the clubs
have decided that the most effective way to promote --
JUSTICE STEVENS: They have decided not to
do it that way, but it could be done.
MR. LEVY: Forgive me. I shouldn't speak
over you.
The clubs have decided that the most
effective way to promote their product, to promote NFL
football, is to do so collectively, to ensure that the
marks of all 32 clubs are -- are out there, in --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But maybe they also
collectively decide the best way to make money and
finance -- attendance and so forth, all agree on a
housing program that they all jointly sponsor.
MR. LEVY: Well, Your Honor, that -- I
respectfully suggest that doesn't --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It would be the most
effective way to -- to raise the money to pay these
players who make so much money.
MR. LEVY: Well, that doesn't -- there's a
plausibility standard that really has to be applied in
terms of the -- of the arguments at issue.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but if it's a
plausibility standard at the threshold inquiry,
there's a range of things, and I guess your -- your
friend on the other side is just saying selling logos
is closer to selling houses than it is to playing
football.
MR. LEVY: Well, but there is a difference
here, Your Honor, because there is a record. This --
this wasn't decided on a motion to dismiss. It was
decided on summary judgment. There was undisputed
evidence that the purpose of the licensing, going back
40 years -- 45 years, at this point, was to promote
the game, and that's not an implausible determination
to be made, but the -- but the evidence was
undisputed.
The case was decided on summary judgment,
and so -- you know, this is not a situation where --
where there's the type of -- you know, the range of
issues that needs to be -- you know, that needs to be
resolved, of the kind that you described.
You know, this is a situation that Judge
Moran --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if there's a
factual -- if there's a factual dispute about whether
a particular activity of the league is designed to
promote the game or is designed simply to make more
money, than that is the sort of thing that goes to
trial?
MR. LEVY: Well, I wouldn't -- I wouldn't
put it in terms of "make more money" because I have
agreed with Justice Scalia --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or do something
else, do something other than promote the game?
MR. LEVY: If -- Your Honor, just as in
Dagher -- in Dagher, the issue was how to price the
product. It's a fundamental decision that any venture
has to make. This is a decision -- the undisputed
evidence shows that this is a decision about how to
promote the product, and that's no different from
pricing a product in terms of the -- you know, the
operations of a venture.
You can't -- you can't hope to market a
product, unless you have decided on how to promote it,
and the antitrust laws in the Sherman Act encourage
promotion. They encourage -- Copperweld encourages
business people to make the judgment about how best to
produce and to promote their product and how best to
compete in the marketplace.
They made very clear that they don't want
those judgments cabined or inhibited or chilled by --
by decisions by the court or decisions by a jury.
But, here, Judge Moran did what we thought was the --
and we continue to think is the most appropriate way
to serve the interests of both the Sherman Act and the
considerations that this Court has recognized in
Twombly and other cases, and that's to provide an
early opportunity for a determination of whether or
not the venture -- the venture conduct, the venture
decision that is at issue, is a venture decision of a
single entity or whether it is a collective decision
of the -- of the venture participants.
He allowed discovery limited to the single
entity issue. The -- the -- there is no challenge to
the scope of discovery here. We have a complete
record on this point that confirms and addresses the
question that you presented, that the purpose of
licensing here is to promote the product.
But even if it weren't -- even if it
weren't, I'd suggest that -- that the -- the evidence
shows that fans identify with the logos, and we are
talking about the logos and the marks here, not
because they have some sort of intrinsic value, not
because they, you know, derive -- they derive some
value from their attractiveness or appeal,
independently in the marketplace; they derive their
value from their identification with an NFL club that
competes on the football field. And even -- even
American Needle's president so confirmed in the
declaration that he submitted in the case.
So we have here a record that makes this --
this judgment for the Court relatively
straightforward. It provides a straightforward
opportunity for this -- this Court to confirm the
principles established in -- established in Copperweld
and to -- and to extend the principles that this Court
noted in Dagher.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The -- if the
reasonableness of this decision, that T-shirts promote
the game, is so self-evident, then why wouldn't the
rule of reason control completely?
MR. LEVY: Well, Your Honor, I don't have --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why do we need to even
go to the single-entity question when, by your own
answer, it is undisputed, so abundantly clear, so
reasonable?
MR. LEVY: The answer --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the need to -- to
label it "single entity," as opposed to label it what
it is, reasonable?
MR. LEVY: The answer, Your Honor, is
inherent in the rule of reason. In the modern era,
defending a claim like this on the merits involves an
investment of tens of millions of dollars, thousands
of hours of executive time, hours and hours of court
time. In the Salvino case, there were 3 years of
discovery spent on rule of reason issues --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But is not the whole
purpose, and I certainly sympathize with that
argument. But isn't the proposition of antitrust law
that we have a reason for worrying about concerted
activity? We have a genuine concern as -- well,
Congress does -- about independent entities joining
together and fixing prices.
And we permit them to do so, as Justice
Breyer indicated, when the venture has a purpose
that's independent than -- from the individual
interests, but we say, when it doesn't, we have to
ensure, under the rule of reason, that what they are
doing is reasonable.
I'm -- I'm very swayed by your arguments,
but I can very much see a counterargument that
promoting T-shirts is only to make money. It doesn't
really promote the game. It promotes the making of
money. And once you fix prices for making money,
that's a Sherman Act violation.
MR. LEVY: But, Your Honor, I would agree
with almost everything that you said, but we are not
dealing here with independent sources of economic
power. These clubs are not independent. None could
produce their product on their own.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they own the
trademarks, so they could.
MR. LEVY: They do, but the trademarks don't
have any value. They don't have any purpose
independent of the game. The trademarks are invented
to identify the clubs on the field. They are -- they
are promoted and distributed to -- to encourage
loyalty among fans of the clubs. The -- the
trademarks are simply a tool that the clubs use to --
JUSTICE BREYER: So let's call it "NFL
supermarket." Red Sox supermarket, Patriots
automobile shop, Patriots tractor store -- everything
becomes Patriots. Everything -- no competition
anywhere. Now, you say that's ridiculous, and once
you say that's ridiculous, you are now into the
business of deciding whether this aspect of the
undeniable legal joint venture to play baseball or
football -- whether this aspect is properly the
subject of merger.
And once you're into that, you're into your
$7 million, and I can't really think of anything
that's going to help you there.
MR. LEVY: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: And the SG in its brief,
you see, on that key 16 and 17, it seemed to me,
simply reproduces in precisely somewhat different
language, but precisely the argument you are now
having: Is this the kind of thing that should be
merged? We know by applying the rule of reason.
And, second, if it is merged, is this
particular aspect of it something where there could be
competition, and there isn't much justification?
That's their rule, too. Again, we are back to the
rule of reason. So, how do I save you the $7 million?
MR. LEVY: But, Your Honor, this case is the
perfect example. We were able to resolve this case on
summary judgment without incurring the burden of rule
of reason discovery, and your reference to the
Patriots tractor store drives home a distinction that
I think is worth leaving with the Court at this point.
This is not a situation, like the situation
to which we adverted in our brief, where John Deere
and International Harvester get together and fix the
prices of their logos for sale to cap manufacturers.
John Deere and International Harvester, for
many years -- I mean, early on, they gave away the
hats throughout the Midwest to encourage farmers to
buy their farm equipment. They are independent
sources of economic power.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you -- you say that
the -- that the trademarks have no value apart from
the -- from the game. I guess you could say the same
thing for each individual franchise of each of the 32
clubs. They are worthless, if NFL football
disappears. So does that mean they -- they can agree
to fix the price at which their -- their franchises
will be sold, by concerted agreement, because after
all, they're worthless apart from the NFL?
MR. LEVY: Well, I -- I certainly agree with
your -- your premise, Your Honor, that they are
worthless apart from the -- except -- I mean, there's
some residual value. I don't -- I don't --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. LEVY: I don't dispute -- dispute that.
Could they agree on prices for their franchises to be
sold? Yes, I assume they could agree because they are
not independent sources of economic power.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, okay, you --
JUSTICE BREYER: So we don't even ask the
question whether under the rule of reason such a thing
is reasonable or justified?
MR. LEVY: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought I was reducing it
to the absurd. But you --
(Laughter.)
MR. LEVY: You know, I -- I can bring the
basic point that I -- I want to leave you with back to
our example that's a little bit closer to home.
In 1999 -- 1919, when Judge Covington and
Mr. Burling went to join forces, they formed a law
firm, a venture. Ninety years later, that venture
decides on the prices, the rates that Mr. Ludwin and I
will -- will decide for our -- will charge for our
services. Sometimes that venture, the firm, decides
that we won't do business with a particular client or
that we'll limit our business to a particular client
in a particular industry.
Nobody suggests that that decision of the
venture, a lawful venture, is subject to section 1
scrutiny as a violation of the Sherman Act,
constitutes a concerted refusal to deal.
But if Mr. Ludwin and I leave the -- leave
the firm and we set up solo practices and then decide
on what our rates are going to be or then decide on
what our -- what clients we will serve and not serve,
that is an agreement between independent competitors.
That's the fundamental difference.
That is a fundamentally different situation
between -- compared to the situation of the firm
setting our rates. And it reflects the intersection
of Copperweld and Dagher. It shows how Dagher and
Copperweld fit together hand in glove to demonstrate
that the NFL, for purposes of promoting its football
product, is a single entity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Nager, you have 3 minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GLEN D. NAGER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. NAGER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
I'd just like to pick up on a question that
Chief Justice Roberts asked me with a point that
Justice Breyer made, which is that both the Solicitor
General's position and the NFL's position are taking
rule of reason concepts and trying to push them into
the concerted conduct inquiry, which will have the
effect, of course, of confusing courts that presently
understand the inquiry. That's Justice Breyer's point
about terminology.
It also has substantive impact because of
the way litigation gets conducted. As Mr. Levy has
said, this case was litigated below at the district
court judge's direction only on the concerted conduct
question, not on the -- the rule of reason questions.
So, American Needle didn't have the opportunity to
conduct discovery and make proof about anticompetitive
effects and to try to rebut the arguments that the NFL
was making about pro-competitive justifications.
The NFL's argument is asking -- they are
asking for a per se rule of legality for everything
that the NFL does that is related to football. That
can't be the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's the answer to
the -- what's the answer to the hypothetical Mr. Levy
ended with, the law firm?
MR. NAGER: On the -- the partnership
example? Well, the partnership is -- is as follows:
As -- as to the extent that there's case law
on the subject, as with all joint ventures, the case
law treats law firm partnerships as joint ventures and
subjects them to the rule of reason, and every
commentator, whether it be Judge Bork or anyone else,
has said: But, of course, law firms don't have market
power so they couldn't possibly have anticompetitive
effects on the market, and a rule of reason claim
trying to challenge the rates at which a law firm sets
its partnership rates wouldn't pass -- survive a
motion to dismiss.
With respect to his analogy to Dagher, the
difference between the Dagher effects -- of course
this Court in Dagher didn't accept the argument that
I made on behalf of Texaco and Shell that they should
be treated as a single entity if, in fact, their
formation was lawful. This Court only ruled on the -
on the price-fixing issue.
But the argument that was made in Dagher was
if you had a wholly integrated joint venture, one in
which there had been a complete pooling of relevant
capital, a complete sharing of profits and losses, and
an enforceable non-compete agreement, in those
circumstances the -- the owners of that joint venture
were not like typical joint venturers; they, in fact,
were like the shareholders in a publicly held company
because their only interest at that point is in their
investment. They have no other economic interests
that are affected by their ownership and control of
that entity. And at that point, they could be treated
as one.
And Justice Thomas's opinion for the Court
has some resonance of that in it, but it specifically
says it's only addressing it in terms of the per se
rule.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:19 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
10:14 14:20 28:17 66:13 67:6 articulated
68:13 25:3,4 allow 22:21 6:2 9:4 11:7 articulation
adverse 13:10 allowed 22:20 apart 63:14,21 asked 65:24
28:20 38:18 47:14 amici 8:24 application assume 10:19,20
39:18 50:14 54:7 amicus 1:20 2:7 36:21 64:4
51:11 55:24 61:9 29:15 applied 33:8 assumes 27:14
63:18,22 64:3 analogous 33:3 34:6,14 56:7 attack 31:15,16
61:8 64:4 analogy 67:11 applies 5:16 31:16 32:13
agreed 9:25 analysis 5:12,12 36:12 attacked 54:14
19:16 33:18 22:15 24:5,21 36:10,14 44:24 attendance
35:7,18 agreement 3:12 36:25 51:19 53:19 55:5 attractiveness
38:2 3:15 4:23 5:5 53:12,14 applying 62:17 47:18 59:7
49:10 14:19 15:6,7 ancillary 5:11 appropriate 35:25 37:9
11:3,5 26:20,25 28:18 31:4,14 54:24 area 21:18 48:21 automobile
13:1,2 34:9 38:17 announcing argue 5:11,14 61:25
21:23 41:2,3,6 45:4 45:22 13:9,21,22 available 50:19
54:2,9 47:10 49:5 answer 6:7 7:20 arguing 19:12 a.m 1:14 3:2
55:2,7 52:2 63:20 9:3 13:23 28:24 68:12
60:19 65:9 67:22 21:16 25:1 argument 1:13
12:5 21:23,24 49:19,24 50:1 39:11 50:8,12 42:12 48:13
Breyer 16:2,8,11 cabined 58:8 certain 6:14 55:1
52:9 17:4,11,15,19 call 25:4 31:17 30:17 15:25 67:23
19:2,5,7,22,24 called 51:13 15:15 26:14 claim 6:18 14:8
21:1 30:14 capability 43:9 60:16 63:22 32:17,19 45:6
46:23 51:7 carry 29:24 32:6 35:22 36:6 48:25 50:2,3,4
2:4,6,6,9 64:7 65:25 case 3:4,11 4:5 31:20 53:21 clean 48:19
3:8 26:2 Breyer's 66:5 5:16 6:4 8:9,23 challenges 27:5 clear 8:23 40:23
33:15 BREYRE 17:23 11:13 13:12 challenging 28:2 52:1,12 58:7
39:12 18:23 14:5 18:7 28:3,10 42:21 60:2
67:14 brief 8:19 28:15 20:21 22:4,12 change 6:12 7:6 clearly 21:9
62:12 63:5 24:23,25 25:22 changing 9:24 64:24
51:11 38:21 30:18,20 34:10 charge 64:21 closer 50:24
build 53:24 34:13,14 35:9 charitable 41:23 56:13 64:16
44:10 Bulls 49:2 40:11 42:8 Chief 3:3,9 55:11 59:9
58:4,5 burden 13:8,15 44:8,18 48:19 11:12,17,23 clubs 3:22 28:18
21:12,13 62:25 53:19 56:24 23:5,18,25 46:20 49:16
32:1 Burling 64:18 59:12 60:13 24:12,16 29:10 50:11 51:1
28:13 62:4 64:23,24 25:9 42:9 49:1 65:18,22,24 50:18,19,23
complaining 66:8 control 4:19 5:6 34:13,13 35:18
16:3,23,24 confirmed 41:25 controlled 3:19 51:15 52:11
30:2 complete 58:22 confirms 58:23 21:25 59:14,16,18
33:14 67:20,21 confusing 44:16 coordination 60:12 63:3
35:10,24 completely 21:4 66:4 39:4 66:10 67:13,16
37:6,8,18 59:23 confusion 23:23 Copperweld 68:6
concepts 66:2 30:19 5:18 12:20 courts 24:14
30:8,12 23:13 43:3 49:21 39:3 42:5,7,8 32:23 48:23
36:11,14 concern 22:10 60:20 44:15,18 45:2 49:1,3 66:4
60:19 cons 51:9 45:8 48:21 Court's 3:16,20
39:5 concert 6:10 consent 6:10 53:6 58:3 8:1 10:5 12:18
54:10 9:25 30:9,10 33:17 59:17 65:14,15 12:25 25:8
concerted 5:8,14 38:9 correct 14:4 27:19
19:13 11:3 12:24 considerations 53:12,14 create 23:14
37:3 13:1 21:23 53:18 55:4 costly 22:16 54:10
51:2,25 23:4 24:2,7,10 58:13 counsel 11:23 created 43:5,6
24:14 25:6,9 consistent 5:16 20:14 23:5 creates 30:22
51:10 60:18 63:20 conspiracy 7:10 counterargum... criteria 31:1,2,3
65:4 66:3,10 constitute 5:20 61:4 32:13,18
9:6 13:10 32:11 constitutes 65:4 course 30:23 curiae 1:20 2:7
15:8 conclusion 23:3 constitution 36:22 55:11 29:15
18:3 26:19 44:8 29:23 66:4 67:5,12 current 15:20
21:9 45:15,16,22 consumers 8:15 court 1:1,13
27:15 condition 10:7 context 5:11,12 3:10,11 4:5,11 D
32:16 conditions 8:10 5:14 12:14 5:17 7:21 8:2 D 1:16 2:3,11
45:11 50:17,18 8:11 13:13,22 3:1,7 65:20
7:22,24 8:5 continued 44:5 20:5 21:22 35:18 41:25
25:9 30:7 13:5 31:20 25:16,18,20,23 67:11,12,13,18
33:5 58:16 66:3,10 contracts 9:7 27:18,22 28:9 29:8
38:1 66:13 34:3 35:5 28:14 29:17 data 51:8
conducted 22:23 contrast 8:12 32:11 33:2,7 day 21:10
defendants 33:21,25 34:2 doctrinally effects 8:4,4
defending 60:10 37:13 39:4 doctrine 7:22 66:14 67:7,12
26:22 54:2 57:22 24:15 25:2,5 52:23
delegated 35:10 difficult 21:18 documents either 29:21
37:18 delegation 30:3 direction 66:10 doing 10:2 21:3 eliminate 15:22
54:21 35:16 directly 4:5 28:4 52:23 employee 33:13
64:21 demonstrate disagree 42:22 61:2 employees 30:1
50:20 65:15 53:16 dollars 60:11 30:13,24
35:5 46:17 63:18 doubt 24:7 encourage 58:2
denied 14:9 disappointed draw 50:22 58:3 61:20
Dental 25:16 31:19 drives 63:2 63:10
department discarding 21:4 D.C 1:9,16,19,22 encourages 58:3
64:20,22 52:25 discovery 22:15 E enforceable
Depot 31:22,25 41:15 48:17 earlier 21:6 engages 50:10
10:5 12:22 Deputy 1:18 63:1 66:13 58:15 63:9 25:2
27:19 derive 59:6,6,8 discuss 53:13 easier 20:19 ensure 55:20
30:12 derived 30:9 discussion 26:7 31:16 61:1
35:21 33:17 38:9 dismiss 14:6 easily 18:14,15 ensuring 10:7,8
40:20 describe 55:1 15:2 20:5 easy 24:22 enter 35:11,12
49:7,25 described 44:10 56:17 67:10 economic 14:21 entered 5:5 11:5
55:2,3 57:3 dismissed 16:7 33:5 44:11 34:2
description 22:13 25:19 45:12,17,24 entering 5:19
42:14 dispute 39:22 46:21 51:9,10 9:7
65:1 designed 46:14 57:7 64:2,2 51:19,23 52:16 enterprises 3:20
39:25 determination distinction 5:13 63:12 64:5 entertainment
42:2,3,4 56:21 58:15 12:25 13:3 68:2 51:3
58:9,9 determine 27:23 63:2 economic-rela... entirely 6:2
24:13 distributed educational entities 3:22
difference 4:20 district 14:9 effect 6:24 13:10 37:3 50:12
56:15 65:10 27:12,18,22 19:11 66:4 entity 22:20
33:11,16 50:6,15 54:11 fan 17:16 18:13 40:18 42:25,25 G
38:22 62:24 64:16 18:14 44:11 53:23 G 3:1
39:2 66:24 fans 18:11 59:3 54:2 55:7,20 game 10:3,4
excellent 31:2 61:21 56:14 59:10 24:19 26:23
49:18 exception 49:2 farm 63:11 62:6 63:17 46:2,5,7,20,22
exclusive 15:24 farmers 63:10 65:16 66:18 47:2,4,7,18,21
58:18,21 16:13,25 28:10 favorable 8:15 forces 33:6 50:23,24 56:21
65:17 34:1,9 feature 22:16 64:18 57:9,16 59:22
68:4 exclusively 29:3 fide 26:3 forget 16:5,8,9 61:6,18 63:15
executive 41:18 figure 20:1 formalism 42:9 10:15 47:20
exercises 37:9 filing 32:19 formation 39:15 gas 37:17,18,20
expanded 42:17 Fine 17:4 45:14 formed 40:11,16 29:1 36:3
explain 12:2 first 3:4 7:20 55:24 generating
exploit 43:17 31:7 37:2,7 27:23 53:12 genuine 60:19
43:22 fit 65:15 four 19:10 33:18 36:10
66:25 focus 16:15,19 franchised Ginsburg's 7:13
48:10,12 focusing 19:9 franchises 43:18 8:18 15:24
56:19,22 F 29:18 43:23 63:19 21:20 23:17
59:2 face 21:9 following 6:22 64:3 35:5 36:3
fact 3:24 14:4 51:16 freedom 10:8 30:11
26:8 33:21 52:20 66:24 functions 33:15 GLEN 1:16 2:3
50:19 67:15,24 3:13,18 5:5 57:19 65:10 glove 65:15
33:13 factual 57:7,7 10:20 17:25 65:11 18:2 22:12
39:20 factually 27:24 39:18,19 40:7 further 14:19 31:22 35:2
42:12 happened 40:22 hornbook 44:17 independent integrated 67:19
50:11 harms 51:9 54:6 hours 60:12,12 44:21 45:12,24 integration 13:3
54:3,11 Harvester 63:6 60:12 46:21 47:11 13:5
63:8 houses 53:24 49:17 50:12 intellectual
48:12 40:13,22 63:10 housing 55:2,25 61:12,18 63:11 43:11,23 44:6
headwear 28:22 hurt 7:5 29:3 64:5 65:9 intended 45:10
17:20,20 hear 3:3 hypothesis 38:10 55:4 intent 40:5
20:22 heard 16:11 53:13 59:8 interest 68:1
24:19,22 17:5 hypothetical 7:4 indeterminate interested 16:22
27:23 held 3:12 4:5,11 66:21 22:9 47:19,20
31:15 15:4 27:12,18 indicated 60:23 interests 58:12
35:11,12 67:25 I individual 5:7 60:25 68:2
40:21 Hello 46:10 identifiable 6:24 10:8,14 28:4 International
54:22 helmet 46:11 15:14 28:11 30:9 27:20 63:6,8
62:10 47:4 identification 35:3 36:16 interrupt 13:7
helmets 46:9 59:9 38:9,24,25 34:21
40:9 help 29:19 62:10 59:3 61:19 60:24 63:16 65:13
helpful 21:7 II 49:3 individually intrinsic 59:5
highly 36:6 impact 9:12 industry 64:25 investment
39:11 hiring 29:25 56:21 inefficient 52:24 34:18 35:7
14:7 hockey 17:25 40:20 51:23 involves 4:24
home 22:12 63:2 implies 39:6 inherent 60:9 6:4 60:10
47:8 Honor 20:18 54:8 initial 35:15 issuance 15:21
34:22 43:21 45:23 improve 47:18 40:12 20:9,10 21:8
56:11 46:13 47:14 inappropriate inquiries 24:1,3 22:20 25:3,25
48:9 49:15,23 7:15 inquiry 5:15 33:24 35:4
55:12 56:1,16 included 15:21 24:11 37:13 41:15 42:6
61:9 27:9 29:25 66:3,5 48:18 56:8
horizontal 4:11 41:17 institutions 4:7 57:2 60:14
59:2 3:9 4:13 5:9,22 59:20,25 60:5 20:16,25 46:12 Levy 1:22 2:8
61:23 62:12 law 14:11 24:13 40:15 41:5
13:4,7,12,14 justification 67:2,5,8 47:14,24 48:5
45:12 16:18,22 17:1 justified 54:5 11:7 58:2 56:1,6,15
60:20 17:4,11,15,19 64:9 league 1:7 3:5 57:12,17 59:24
7:17 9:4,5 18:16,19,23 K 8:13 9:25 10:1 62:11,23 63:22
10:7 19:2,5,7,22,24 Kennedy 6:11 10:10,13,18,24 64:2,10,14
15:11 19:25 20:3,8 6:19,22 7:3,8 27:9 29:25 66:8,21
30:20,22 20:11,12,17,19 7:19 21:2,6,17 30:6,10 33:15 liable 7:9
20:21,23 21:1 21:21 40:4,25 35:12 36:13,15 license 15:19
39:16 21:2,6,11,17 key 62:13 38:8,8,16 16:14,25 28:10
45:3,8 21:21,21 22:1 kind 30:19 34:9 39:16,19,19 28:21 46:14
53:2 22:10 23:5,18 40:5 53:3 57:3 40:7,11 41:11 licensee 34:25
23:25 24:12,16 62:16 42:23,25 43:1 35:2
62:5 67:1 25:21 26:4,6 know 6:19,20,21 50:10 57:8 licensees 34:25
26:18 27:2,6 10:19,19 17:9 leagues 8:25 licenses 15:22
29:2,6,7,10,16 21:15 22:11 50:4 41:13
27:18 34:8,20 35:8 44:12 45:1,7 65:5 39:23 41:22
58:10 35:20 36:8,18 45:23 50:25 leaving 63:3 43:11 44:12
67:4 37:4,15 38:20 51:9 52:8 left 16:12 46:19 47:15,17
37:10 43:15,25 44:7 62:17 64:14 legality 66:17 light 30:15
56:18 44:14 45:14,21 knowledge legally 27:12 44:10
58:4 46:3,7,23 47:1 44:17 legislative 3:25 limit 15:25 21:9
62:25 47:7,22,25 legitimate 31:13 64:24
49:7,19 31:14 limited 28:12
6:23 54:19 55:8,14 language 25:2 61:23 listed 19:10
55:22 56:3,9 51:4 62:15 let's 37:4 litigated 66:9
23:16 15:23 19:4 Midwest 63:10 19:25 20:2,7 44:10,11 46:1
27:9,11,20,21 mid-1960s 41:7 20:10,14,18,20 46:20 48:3,13
45:11 50:11,11 millions 60:11 22:1,7,19 23:9 51:1 54:9
55:10,12 market-wide moment 16:23 65:19,20,22 28:11 42:13
56:12 marks 28:22 money 9:22 47:2 National 1:6 3:5 66:1,16
63:7 55:21 59:4 47:5,8,16,16 3:13,18 5:4 NFL-logoed
51:1 14:11 18:11 57:10,13 61:5 42:25 Ninety 64:19
54:22 68:13 61:7,7 nature 34:15 nonventure 50:5
32:12 maximize 9:5,6 50:20,21 4:6,7,9,11,25 non-compete
mean 7:10 10:10 Moran 57:5 5:1,16 8:9 10:5 67:22
23:21 34:21 39:13 47:16 normal 36:22
34:13 28:7 moved 14:6 60:5
members 4:10 multitude 34:2 Needle's 59:11 objective 55:5
10:23 35:5 needs 57:2,2 obligation 20:15
37:9 61:6 mention 8:19,24 N 2:1,1 3:1 neither 1:21 2:7 53:25
66:15 8:24 42:7 Nager 1:16 2:3 29:15 42:6 occurs 35:23
2:5 29:13 48:14 4:21 6:3,16,21 new 18:12 28:1 offering 32:1
merged 62:17,18 13:11,17,19,21 27:21 28:15,23 offices 30:5,6
29:4 39:18 42:24,24 15:12 16:6,10 33:14 39:22,23 okay 16:9 17:1
merits 60:10 17:3,14,22 41:17,18,21 42:21 49:14
34:22 68:3 passer 6:13 plausibly 6:25 potential 32:16
61:7 passing 42:7 play 8:21,22 35:2,6
P Patriots 17:7 9:18 53:23 power 7:1 14:12
42:9 56:4 playing 10:2,4 44:11 45:13,17
57:24 45:1 53:5,6,7 31:15 47:19,20 26:21 54:2 49:17 52:16
51:15,21 paper 30:4,12 percent 47:15 playoff 8:22 64:5 67:6
68:6 31:19 33:13,20 perfect 48:19 plays 10:21,22 powers 29:19,22
58:15 37:10,23 38:15 perfectly 25:12 pleading 15:15 practices 65:6
66:12 paragraph perform 21:13 pleadings 22:13 precedent 49:4
39:11 51:20 49:10 29:17 39:14 32:18 54:20
part 11:4 12:6 19:17,19 32:19 5:13 14:5 presently 23:14
18:9 24:6 18:15 18:1,5,6,25 66:4
53:4 38:21 41:2 20:23 30:17 31:18 presumptively
43:10 12:6 48:3 57:8 pick 46:10 65:23 58:23 63:3 37:19 38:15
64:25 place 7:22 32:24 66:5 68:1,4 57:18 63:19
12:20 67:2 22:17 36:1 25:22 38:4,6 67:17
38:10 parts 7:20 9:4 plausibility 56:7 38:11,14 39:2 pricing 33:9
11:4 party 1:21 2:7 plausible 6:17 possible 23:6 prima 9:11
43:13 45:18 26:20 66:15 25:10
50:13 47:18 48:3,3 pure 51:12 R 3:1 REBUTTAL
53:25 55:13,19 purpose 8:7 raise 5:9 56:4 2:10 65:20
59:21 61:6 48:2 56:19 56:11 57:1 14:13 58:13
61:6 purposes 11:14 ratifying 52:21 41:15 43:21
23:15 51:24 54:5,20 purveyor 34:1 51:20 52:19,20 56:16 58:23
42:2 61:5 65:16 push 66:2 real 12:9 59:13
46:1 promotion put 22:6 23:4 really 6:13 7:12 red 17:8,9,11,16
61:13 50:23,24 54:3 50:3,3,4,18 53:20 56:7 18:13,14 19:13
32:1 41:14 5:12 6:1,15,17 reducing 64:11
39:25 promulgating Q 7:14,18 8:24 reduction 9:15
42:3 5:2 quality 4:19 12:17 14:7,8 10:5
45:25 proof 41:19 question 4:23 15:16 22:6,8 Reebok 15:24
47:19 66:13 6:7 7:12,20 8:9 22:15,21 23:21 16:1,14
55:19 properly 5:14 9:3,16 11:25 24:1,3,5,8,21 referees 38:8
62:6 12:3,11,14,15 24:23 25:11,15 reference 11:19
Properties 39:23 13:8 17:5 25:19,24 26:4 11:21 63:1
65:17 40:16 41:8,17 20:24 21:14,22 26:23 32:14 refined 24:1
50:23,24 48:13 23:20,22 27:22 44:24 45:7 50:7
35:13 41:14 43:12,23 34:6,17 41:1 54:15 59:23 65:13
43:20 44:6 41:10,11,19 60:9,14,18 refusal 65:4
48:24,25 proposing 36:21 48:23 49:20,25 63:1 64:8 66:2 27:6 50:2
pros 51:9 64:8 65:23 30:24 31:5,5,9 regulate 45:10
14:14 provide 58:14 20:15 21:7 60:7 61:2 64:9 12:4
59:15 36:20,22 66:11 59:21 reject 10:25
25:11 11:13
10:16 11:5,7 rule 5:12 6:1,12 38:22 45:2 37:12,25 38:12
restraints 54:25 14:8 15:15 21:21 24:4 52:10,13 65:2
34:14 result 25:22 26:4,23 32:14 Scalia 13:18,20 53:5 61:4
revenues 26:8 59:23 60:9,14 47:22,25 57:14 self-evident
review 36:4 66:2,11,17 Scalia's 20:23 19:17 37:17,18
rib 43:6 ruled 67:16 schedule 8:22 45:18 47:5,12
right 9:24 12:9 ruling 49:21 scheduling 8:20 19:13 36:9
19:22 25:5,23 scrutiny 3:14,23 sensitive 25:10
32:3 rights 4:7,14 41:6 se 7:24,25 8:3 38:22 40:21
34:12 rival 9:21 Saints 17:8 16:4,6 31:9,9 49:16 51:11
Roberts 3:3 salary 49:13 31:11 44:23 52:13,15 55:6
23:5,18 24:16 47:8 63:7 Sealy 5:17 12:19 5:18 6:8 12:20
38:20 39:9 52:24 32:13,18 62:18 25:18 26:4
2:9 39:12 65:18,24 66:20 satisfy 15:15 33:19 38:19 65:8
8:5,12 48:15 31:11 32:19 35:22 36:4 Seventh 3:12
37:16
51:16 49:18 51:5,12 30:23 14:20 suggestion 40:19
60:1 specified 34:3,4 51:19 46:23,25 56:18
67:21 situation 33:2 sports 4:1 8:13 stores 44:19 supermarket
5:25 22:12 65:11,12 squarely 33:7 strength 14:22 37:10,24
52:10,11 six 43:4 52:12 standard 24:4 stronger 26:21 supplies 30:1
58:2,12 small 18:16 45:9 56:7,10 stuff 7:10 19:17 32:3 38:7
65:3 sold 63:20 64:4 standards 15:15 20:13 supply 31:20
24:2 28:1 29:1 start 11:25 24:21 35:16,22 supportable
sorry 13:19 stated 47:1 62:7 65:2 67:1 suppose 21:11
51:23 sort 7:16 24:24 States 1:1,14,20 submission supposed 16:15
59:3 59:5 stay 37:5 submitted 59:12 sure 7:14 15:1,5
sorts 12:4 step 42:12 68:11,13 23:21 29:1
36:18 37:4,15 15:3,5 21:11 substance 22:23 swayed 61:3
57:9 Sotomayor's 55:22 56:3 sudden 45:11 60:16
62:14 12:14 Stevens's 8:11 52:15 system 6:20
28:22 sources 45:12,24 29:12,13,16 sufficient 26:22
31:17 46:21 49:16 31:6,18,25 suggest 10:12 T
52:15 61:11 33:1,24 34:5 51:25 56:2 T 2:1,1
36:20 63:12 64:5 34:11,22 35:15 59:2 Taft 11:12
Sox 17:8,9,11,16 35:23 36:12 suggested 41:7 Taft's 11:12
39:4 18:13,14 19:13 37:1,7,22 39:1 50:9 take 7:15 17:16
61:24 42:6 suggesting 10:22 21:13 22:5
46:2,2 space 29:25 stimulating 41:5 31:1 40:19,25
59:4 57:22 58:14 20:8 22:16 19:7,8 25:3 51:17
55:10 51:14 58:10 TV 4:7 8:12 unilateral 13:1
10:18 29:21 36:20,23 thousands 60:11 two 7:4,20 9:4 unit 46:2 49:17
19:4 37:1 49:13 three 7:4 19:10 10:20 17:23 51:2,3
35:13 54:21 19:20 19:20 21:10 unitary 20:6
there's 7:8 15:5 threshold 56:10 31:6 38:4 39:7 21:4
5:4,7 41:18 48:10,12 51:18 58:14 2:6 29:14,20
7:4 8:20 48:16,17 53:20 tickets 47:21 type 10:11 57:1 unlawful 10:11
10:1 12:1 54:1 56:6,11 time 18:13 42:19 types 8:12 28:20
14:13 57:1,6,7 63:24 43:18 60:12,13 typical 45:8 unreasonable
15:17 66:25 times 52:13 67:24 25:7 31:23
26:8,11 They'll 8:21 tool 8:6 41:14 T-shirt 47:4 32:4,7,20
27:21 they're 12:20,21 61:22 T-shirts 17:7,12 unreasonably
33:17,21 54:1 63:21 tractor 61:25 45:18 46:8 9:8 16:14
35:3,10 thing 16:12 63:2 59:21 61:5 unsound 23:13
38:10 19:14 26:6 trade 9:8 16:14 unstructured
42:15 27:4 31:8 32:9 25:7 U 22:9
33:21 40:6,9 trademarks ultimate 34:12 use 5:6 8:6 25:2
46:9 57:10 4:18 5:6 15:19 ultimately 4:9 32:14 41:13
49:8,12 62:16 63:16 43:17 61:15,16 30:9 38:9 51:3 61:22
30:8,23,25 transferred undeniable 62:5 v 1:5 3:5
17:24 18:19 treated 67:15 25:8,21 29:1 4:14,17 8:17
19:18 20:21 68:4 30:15 40:13 10:22,24 11:15
57:13,23 25:1 26:3,24 triable 48:1,8 understandable 30:21,22 31:4
29:18 30:19 trial 52:2 57:11 25:10 31:13,14 33:4
39:9 51:16 58:11 trucking 50:6 28:15,23,24 43:2,8,8 45:3,8
68:10 62:9 63:3 54:10 undisputed 46:1,14 49:10
32:18 Thomas's 68:6 try 12:13 18:21 46:16 48:10,18 53:2,15,17,23
57:20 53:24,25 54:4
55:7 48:6,7 67:9 52:10,14 65:2
58:16 Washington 1:9 wrestled 48:23 10:08 1:14 3:2
1:16,19,22 wrong 7:22 20:5 100 47:15
62:5 wasn't 29:3 25:24 53:10 11:19 68:12
42:19 43:3 13 1:10
67:19 56:17 X 14-game 9:10
waste 23:16 x 1:2,8 16 8:21 62:13
10:9,14 way 12:15 32:14 17 31:1,1 62:13
55:5 35:18 38:4 Yankees 17:12 1919 64:17
55:13,15,19,23 17:16 19:12 1963 40:16 41:7
44:23 66:8 years 8:2 18:15 1970 39:19
67:1,2 ways 33:3 40:7,12 48:22 42:23 43:4
42:2 Wednesday 1:10 63:9 64:19 1999 64:17
welfare 38:1 York 18:12
64:18 you're 10:22 2 28:14,16,20
we're 21:5 20:7 27:8,9 20 40:7
we'll 3:3 64:24 42:20 62:8,8 2010 1:10
61:8 withdraw 20:24 60:13 65:19
witnesses 54:23 49:13
0 32 3:12,18 5:4
1:5 3:4
37:11 worries 32:22 1 3:14,23 4:3,8
worrying 20:12 7:17,25 13:1,2
28:20 31:21
19:11 worthless 63:17 34:7 35:4,17 6
37:17 63:21,24 35:22 36:4 65 2:12
51:22 wouldn't 26:18 37:12,25 38:12
58:7 31:10 32:5,7 39:5,8,17
34:17 37:24 40:10 43:1
49:11 57:12,12 59:22 50:2 51:6
