IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JOSE PADILLA, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-651
KENTUCKY. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 13, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
STEPHEN B. KINNAIRD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Petitioner.
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
affirmance.
WM. ROBERT LONG, JR., ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,
Frankfurt, Ky.; on behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
STEPHEN B. KINNAIRD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting affirmance 20
WM. ROBERT LONG, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 34
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
STEPHEN B. KINNAIRD, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 08-651, Padilla v.
Kentucky.
Mr. Kinnaird.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN B. KINNAIRD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KINNAIRD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The Kentucky Supreme Court announced a
categorical rule so restrictive of the Sixth Amendment
that the United States Government disavows it. The
court held that the Sixth Amendment never provides a
remedy to a defendant who pleads guilty to a crime on
the false advice of his attorney that he would not be
deported as a result.
The narrowest ground on which this Court may
reverse the Kentucky Supreme Court is to hold that
misadvice claims are cognizable under the Sixth
Amendment.
Any advice that a lawyer actually gives to a
defendant on whether to plead guilty is advice affecting
criminal liability. Such advice must meet Sixth
Amendment competency standards.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, other advice
-- for example, advice about whether to take the stand
--that can have significant collateral consequences ­
you know, he might lose his job or lose government
contracts based on what he says, is that the sort of
advice that would be covered in -- under your position?
MR. KINNAIRD: I think, for misadvice, the
test would be whether it's a material misrepresentation
that would be material to a reasonable defendant in
deciding whether to plead guilty, so it would --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Only plead guilty?
Not, for example, whether it would be material to the
defendant in deciding whether or not to take the stand?
MR. KINNAIRD: I think to plead guilty is
the key strategic decision that is in the -- in the
client's sole duty and prerogative, to make that
decision.
JUSTICE ALITO: Why would it be limited to a
decision to plead guilty? What if a decision to plead
guilty would have lesser immigration consequences than a
guilty verdict after -- after going to trial? Wouldn't
you have the same situation there?
MR. KINNAIRD: I'm not aware of any
consequences that would depend on whether the conviction
was based on a guilty plea or trial.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what if -- what if an
offer is made for a plea to an offense that would have
lesser immigration consequences than the offense for
which the person might be convicted if the person goes
to trial?
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, that would be
subject --
JUSTICE ALITO: And the -- and the attorney
doesn't fully apprise the client of the situation?
MR. KINNAIRD: And he goes to trial?
JUSTICE ALITO: Right.
MR. KINNAIRD: I think that -- that would
only be a Strickland claim if this Court were prepared
to rule that going to trial is ever prejudice under
Strickland, and there is a circuit split on that.
But the concern of the Sixth Amendment --
JUSTICE ALITO: But do you see a difference
in principle between the two situations with respect to
the issue that is before us here?
MR. KINNAIRD: I'm not sure that there would
be. Provided the Court would recognize that as
prejudice, I think they would all be under Strickland
claims.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you decide which
of the many consequences your rule would cover? I mean,
you are now talking about a narrow ground, misadvice.
But you are also urging that when the lawyer is
silent on a matter that he should inform the defendant,
that, too, is covered.
But whichever way you do it, how do you --
you say certainly deportation is a consequence that the
defendant should be told about.
What about -- how do you distinguish that
from, say, you'll lose your driver's license, you'll
lose your right to vote? How do we distinguish the
consequences that count and those that don't?
MR. KINNAIRD: Your Honor, the issue here is
simply the legal standard that applies to any -- any
of these claims, and it would be the same two-part
standard under Strickland v. Washington. So there --
there is no need to draw lines.
If this Court is troubled by a broad rule
and is inclined not to issue a general rule, it may
simply recognize deportation as among the few collateral
consequences that is so severe and so material in a high
number of cases in which it applies that the Strickland
claim should be allowed to go forward.
And it can leave for another day whether
there are other consequences that are too burdensome for
the system to recognize.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we can't leave that
for another day. I mean, we -- we have to decide
whether we are opening a Pandora's box here, whether
there is any sensible way to restrict it to -- to
deportation.
What about advice on whether pleading guilty
would -- would cause him to lose custody of his
children? That's -- that's pretty serious.
What if pleading guilty will -- will affect
whether he can keep his truck, which is his main means
of livelihood, or whether -- whether it would be seized
by the government as the instrument of his crime?
There are so many pieces of advice which
involve legal issues that -- that counsel can provide
advice on.
MR. KINNAIRD: Your Honor, I think that is
precisely why we have the contextual inquiry of
Strickland. And, certainly, parental termination may in
a given case be so severe a consequence --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure.
MR. KINNAIRD: -- that it would be
material.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure.
MR. KINNAIRD: But that -- most of these
failure to advise claims will be very difficult to plead
and to prove --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we were in -- if we
were in the contract, civil contract situation, and
there's a mistake, the usual rule -- Restatement of
Contracts -- is that the -- the question is whether or
not it's reasonable to have the party who made the
mistake bear the risk.
Suppose we just had an instruction, Rule 11
-- I recognize this is a State case -- but we had a Rule
11 instruction, which said the only thing the court is
going to inquire about and the only thing that was of
relevance to your plea are criminal consequences.
You take the risk of any misadvice, any
misunderstanding, with respect to collateral conduct.
That's your risk, and it's part of the guilty plea. If
we said that, would that foreclose this kind of argument
in your case?
MR. KINNAIRD: No, Your Honor, because the
Sixth Amendment is a source of independent rights, and
the question is: What is the -- the lawyer's duty as
distinct from the court? And the lawyer has the
distinct duty to assess the advantages and disadvantages
of the plea --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then there's no way
the government or the court can protect itself against
the -- these consequences, and there are any number of
them. Suppose he doesn't advise that there's going to
be civil liability in tort once he pleads guilty,
because then that's a fact that's concluded and it's
just a question of damages. And as Justice Scalia
indicated, there are many, many instances.
I just see no way for the courts to protect
themselves against -- against this. And -- and if the
client, or the accused, is told that he accepts these
risks, he can say, well, you know, there may be some
risks I don't know about, I'll go to trial. He just
accepts the risks.
MR. KINNAIRD: That may be true for a due
process claim, Your Honor, but the lawyer still has an
obligation to competently represent him, competently
assess the legal risks, and advise the client. Those
are fundamental to lawyering. And Strickland --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But even -- even if we
accept that, wouldn't a competent counsel, after telling
him the deportation consequences, then say: But this is
a case where the evidence is so strong against you, I
advise you to take the plea rather than go to trial. If
you go to trial, you are likely to lose and you will get
a longer sentence. So does it matter in the end if
competent counsel would have said, this is a good plea,
take it?
MR. KINNAIRD: Yes, it certainly matters,
because that goes to the question of prejudice at an
evidentiary hearing. The prejudice standard is
subjective in the sense that it must account for the
subjective risk preferences of the defendant as between
incarceration and deportation. But at an evidentiary
hearing the defendant must be able to prove that he has
a triable case, that a rational jury could find beyond a
reasonable doubt -- or could find reasonable doubt,
rather, as to at least one element of -- of the offense.
JUSTICE ALITO: Your argument has -- has an
appeal because removal is such a harsh consequence,
particularly for someone like your client who had been
in the United States for a long time. But what troubles
me about it is the situation in which the defendant
claims -- you know, let's say 5 years after entering a
guilty plea or after the passage of some time ­ that
misadvice was given, and the -- the attorney on the
other side is a busy public defender who by that time
has handled 500 cases and is unable to remember what, if
anything, was said about the immigration consequences of
the case; there is nothing in the file. I mean, how are
those cases going to be handled?
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, I think that, Your
Honor, that's no different than any Strickland claim
that would be brought in the same time frame. And there
are -- remember that ineffective assistance claims are
almost always brought as collateral attacks, and there
are many Federal and State strictures on bringing those
claims, including time limits. So I don't think there's
anything categorically different from the ordinary
Strickland claim in your case.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, isn't there -- isn't
it different in that the ordinary Strickland claim
concerns things that happen at trial and relate to
strategy in a criminal case, as to which the public
defender or other defense attorney is presumably ­- has
expertise? But what's -- what's the answer to this
question: The defendant takes the stand and says: My
attorney said that, don't worry about it, you are not
going to get removed. And the lawyer says: Well, here's
my file; I have nothing in this whatsoever about having
said anything about removal, and I can't remember the
particulars of every single conversation I had with this
attorney 5 -- with this client, 5 years ago.
MR. KINNAIRD: Your Honor, I think witness
recollection arises in any number of Strickland claims.
And certainly I think that the courts can resolve that
as to whether they found -- find that he proved by a
preponderance of the evidence that -- that that
statement was made.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I suppose
-- before a guilty plea is accepted, the district court
judge is obligated to go through a colloquy to make sure
the defendant knows the consequences of accepting the
plea. I would suppose if you prevail that that colloquy
would have to be expanded to include something like: Do
you understand the deportation consequences, if any, of
pleading guilty?
MR. KINNAIRD: No, Your Honor, it would not.
The -- that's a due process inquiry that is implemented
by Rule 11 in the Federal courts.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's -- that's --
with due respect, that's ridiculous. If it's important
enough to be required to be told to the defendant by his
counsel, surely it's important enough to be advised to
the defendant by the court before the guilty plea is
accepted as -- as voluntary, which includes knowing ­-
knowing the consequences. It's a very strange line you
draw between what we are going to hold counsel to and
what we are going to require the defendant to be advised
of by the court.
MR. KINNAIRD: I don't think that's true,
Your Honor, and the reason is that there are all manner
of strategic types of advice that counsel give that are
no province of the district court.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, do you think it
would be wrong for a district court to say, now, I want
to be very careful, and I'm going to add -- let's take
Rule 11 as the standard. It's a Federal case. I'm
going to add to Rule 11. I'm going to say, in addition
to the Rule 11 questions that you've all answered, I
want to make sure: Have you been advised about
immigration? Have you been advised about other
collateral consequences?
Do you think that would be error for the ­-
or inappropriate for a district judge to do?
MR. KINNAIRD: It would not. It would be --
it would probably be a salutary practice, and in about
half the States, there is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The -- the judge would not
be exceeding his -- his commission, his authority, to
determine just whether this is knowing and voluntary in
the sense of knowing -- knowing the criminal
consequences of -- I mean, in the criminal system
itself?
MR. KINNAIRD: No, Your Honor. My only
point is it would not be required under Rule 11 or
required under the Due Process Clause.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it seems to me a
careful district judge would have to do this if you
prevail.
MR. KINNAIRD: It -- it would be a
beneficial practice, but if the attorneys live up to
their obligations to properly apprise the clients, then
that is unnecessary, because the Brady voluntariness
standard is predicated on an assumption that the
defendant has been competently advised by his counsel.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You were about to say
that in many States the trial judge does inform a
defendant who is an alien of immigration consequences.
MR. KINNAIRD: It's -- it's a much more
limited advisement. What they tend to advise is that
you may be subject to immigration consequences. But
they don't actually make any determination. And, again,
that goes to the difference between the function of the
counsel and a court. The court is not aware of the
defendant's circumstances. It does no investigation of
the case. Counsel does, and counsel is the only one
that actually advises you whether to accept the plea or
not. And that's the key distinction between a court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but that's -- I
don't see why that doesn't apply to the more fundamental
question about whether the district court has to inquire
into the plea circumstances in any event. I thought --
your answer to Justice Scalia that, oh, well, all sorts
of things can come up at trial and the district judge
doesn't have to inquire into those, I think proves too
much. It goes to -- and it departs from your focus on
the guilty plea. That's all the judge is inquiring
about. And I don't know why that obligation doesn't
extend to a fundamental piece of information that
would -- that would, under your theory, make acceptance
of the plea involuntary.
MR. KINNAIRD: Your Honor, I am not
departing from the focus on the guilty plea. The
distinction is that the counsel has a duty to recommend
whether the defendant accepts the plea or not. And he
cannot do that by simply focusing on -- in isolation, on
the criminal consequences.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but what
you're saying is he has got to tell him all the stuff
that's necessary to make the decision to accept the plea
knowing and intelligent, voluntary. And I thought that
was pretty much what the district court was doing when
they have the colloquy. That district judge wants to
make sure the defendant knows what he is agreeing to.
MR. KINNAIRD: No, Your Honor. I think that
the -- the touchstone for the attorney's advice is
whether it's in the interests of the client. And his
duty is to inform the client -- and this is true of all
lawyering -- to inform the client of the legal risks of
the recommended course of action. And if the law
happens to attach the most dramatic and severe
consequences under a civil law, but to attach them to a
conviction, then -- and that consequence can only be
averted in the criminal prosecution, I believe it is the
duty of the criminal lawyer to advise. But at a --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would think that the duty
of the criminal lawyer is to make sure that the
defendant's guilty plea is informed, it is an informed
guilty plea. That is the same obligation of the court
in the colloquy, to be sure that it's an informed plea.
And if you say it's uninformed for counsel not to go
into the myriad collateral consequences, then I assume
it's -- it's improper for the court not to go into those
consequences. They both pertain to whether the guilty
plea is informed. That's counsel's responsibility.
MR. KINNAIRD: Your Honor, I believe that
counsel's responsibility is to ensure that he makes an
informed strategic decision whether to plead guilty.
That is no business of the court's, and I think that is
the distinction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question:
What do you think -- if there is deficient advice by
counsel under Strickland, what do you think you have to
prove in order to get relief under Strickland?
MR. KINNAIRD: For a misadvice claim?
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, assume that advice is
inadequate -- to prove prejudice.
MR. KINNAIRD: First of all, what you would
have to prove on the competency prong is that the
misadvice was about an issue that was material to the
strategic decision to plead guilty.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Right.
MR. KINNAIRD: At the prejudice prong, you
would you have to prove that this defendant -- and this
is at the evidentiary hearing -- would have gone to
trial. And in order to prove that, you have to show
that a rational jury could have found beyond a -- could
have found reasonable doubt as to at least one element
of the offense.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that would be what in
this case?
MR. KINNAIRD: In this case, it would be
knowledge. And Kentucky has a special rule that does
not permit willful blindness. You have to show actual
knowledge that it was marijuana in his truck. And here
you have a commercial truck driver who was found with
Styrofoam boxes and wrapped brown cardboard boxes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, and also drug
paraphernalia in the cab. And I -- was there some
marijuana in the cab, too?
MR. KINNAIRD: There was, yes, Your Honor.
The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought -- I thought he
was asked what was in the -- what was in the containers
and he said marijuana.
MR. KINNAIRD: No, Your Honor. What the
officer testified -- and a key caveat here is that all
we have is the prosecution's charging facts and the
officer's testimony from a suppression hearing. We
don't have the full record. We don't have the defense
case. We don't have the defense version of events. But
what he testified was he was at -- the officer said,
when Mr. Padilla was asked what was in the boxes, he
shrugged his shoulders and he said, "Maybe drugs." And
that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you -- but your
point is an important one. We don't have the defense
case.
MR. KINNAIRD: Exactly.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you don't have
the prosecution case either. You don't know exactly
what witnesses they are going to call, what the strength
of it is. So you don't know whether there is going to
be prejudice or not. When you see -- it seems to me you
have to make quite a prediction about what the case is
going to look like to decide if there's prejudice, to
decide if the fellow is going to take the plea or not.
And I'm just wondering how you do that.
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, Your Honor, I think in
these kinds of claims prejudice is generally going to
require an evidentiary hearing. And that's why the
Kentucky Court of Appeals sent this back for an
evidentiary hearing. But this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's -- it's going
to require, I guess, kind of a mini-trial to decide if
the person would have taken the plea. You've got to
know what the case -- his case looked like, what the
prosecutor's case looked like, to see if it's something
he would have made -- it would have made sense for him
to go to trial or not.
MR. KINNAIRD: I don't think it would
necessarily require a mini-trial, but that would be in
the trial court's discretion.
I would like to point out, though, that this
was not an issue raised to the State supreme court. And
in cases arising from State courts, this Court applies
the same rule to respondents who bring forth an
alternative ground in support of the judgment that it
does to petitioners. It will not reach a question not
passed on or presented below. The only question here is
the legal standard.
Your Honors, if there are no more questions,
I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time for
rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Dreeben.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING AFFIRMANCE
MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
There is a fundamental difference between
Petitioner's claim that defense counsel has a duty to
advise his client about all of the myriad collateral
consequences that may stem from a criminal conviction,
which the government does not think that a defense
counsel has under the Sixth Amendment, and the claim
that is focused more precisely on misadvice given by
defense counsel on a material collateral consequence to
a defendant.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Dreeben, we
learn in the first year of law school that the line
between an affirmative act and failure to act is a
difficult one to draw. What if the lawyer says, you're
going to face 5 years, and the defendant says, is that
all that's going to happen to me? And the lawyer says
yes. Is that a failure to advise or is that an
affirmative misrepresentation?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think it's certainly
not an affirmative misrepresentation. In context, what
the defense lawyer's purpose is, is to counter the
government's criminal case. That's what the Sixth
Amendment provides a lawyer to do. The government
appears through its expert adversary. The Sixth
Amendment provides a counterweight to that in the form
of a lawyer to deal with the criminal aspects of
the case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then you are saying
that the more the defense counsel strays from his only
professional responsibility, the more at risk the
government is. That seems odd.
MR. DREEBEN: What we think, Justice
Kennedy, is that the defense lawyer has two relevant
duties here: One is to counter the government's case,
which means to provide advice to the defendant about his
rights, the nature of the charges, the evidence, and the
affirmative defenses that may exist. And that is a task
that is somewhat broader than the court has in
conducting a Rule 11 colloquy. The court does not go
into strategic matters in a criminal case with the
defendant. Defense counsel must.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think when we --
when we decide there's no right to counsel, like on
collateral review, we don't even look at what happened,
right? We don't look and see whether the advice was
ineffective, how bad the lawyer was. The idea is if you
don't have the right at all, you don't have the right to
an effective lawyer.
MR. DREEBEN: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that right?
Okay. Well, these -- when you are talking about
collateral consequences, you don't have a right to
counsel on -- with respect to those collateral
consequences. I assume there's -- maybe there is -- is
there a right to counsel when you are facing a
deportation proceeding?
MR. DREEBEN: Certainly not by virtue --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MR. DREEBEN: -- of the Sixth Amendment,
Mr. Chief Justice. And --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then, if there
is no right to counsel, why do we get into whether there
is an affirmative misrepresentation or not?
MR. DREEBEN: Because --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just like in a
collateral -- habeas context, we don't care whether
there's an affirmative misreputation ­-
misrepresentation, because there's no right to counsel
in the first place.
MR. DREEBEN: I think it's because the
lawyer has an additional duty in the context of advising
his client whether to take a guilty plea, and that is
the duty to respect that the decision whether to plead
guilty belongs to the defendant personally. It's not a
decision that can be exercised by proxy by the lawyer.
And the lawyer's duty to respect that, whatever advice
he gives, the defendant must be able to make his own
personal decision, imposes a concomitant duty not to
interfere with or undermine the defendant's ability to
make an intelligent decision with the information he
has.
So if a lawyer chooses, when asked about
collateral consequences, as many aliens will do ­- will
I get deported? -- the lawyer is perfectly free to say:
I am not your immigration counsel. You need a lawyer to
advise you about immigration. I am your criminal
lawyer.
And that's perfectly fine. But if a lawyer
goes beyond that and says, don't worry about it; you've
been in the country so long; you are not going to get
deported -- with the understanding and the backdrop
that this is an important factor in whether this
defendant is going to decide to take a guilty plea or to
go to trial -- then the lawyer has used his professional
skills to undermine a personal decision that belongs to
the defendant alone.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what about
misadvice as to whether he will lose custody of his
children, or misadvice as to whether his -- his truck
which he owns will be confiscated by the government?
MR. DREEBEN: I would put them, Justice
Scalia, all in the same general basket, which is to say,
misadvice on a legal matter of importance to the
defendant that could skew his decision to plead guilty
may be deficient representation under Strickland. I
think what was --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not the defendant,
but a defendant? In other words, I assume it's an
objective inquiry you would make rather than a
subjective one?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, objective in the sense
that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We assume, for
example, that someone who is going to lose the custody
of their children would regard that as important. You
don't want testimony about this guy doesn't care about
the children, so it's not a big deal to him.
MR. DREEBEN: I actually think that would be
quite relevant, because if any misadvice did not cause
the defendant to plead guilty because it was irrelevant
to him, then the defendant should not be able to get in
the door with an ineffective assistance claim.
And I also think if the defendant hasn't
manifested in some way that the particular collateral
consequence is important to that defendant, then the
lawyer certainly has no obligation even under
professional standards --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Won't -- won't your
test result in a net loss to defendants? I assume, if
this is adopted as a rule, the affirmative
misrepresentation rule, then every lawyer is going to
say what you said they should say: I'm here for the
criminal case; I'm not telling you anything about
anything else --
MR. DREEBEN: No, I don't --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- as opposed to
saying -- sitting down and saying: Here's what you need
to know. And in most cases we expect the lawyer to do a
professional job. If you have got an alien, he is going
to tell him: Well, what -- you know, this will cause
you to be deported. Instead, every lawyer now is going
to say: I'm not giving you any advice about anything
else.
MR. DREEBEN: No, I don't think that it will
lead to sort of defensive malpractice type of counseling
where lawyers do not do the job that they feel that they
should do, and experience tends to support that.
The rule right now in 10 Federal circuits
is there's no duty to advise about collateral
consequences. Seven Federal circuits have a rule that
affirmative misadvice about collateral consequences can
support a claim.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why -- why do you have a
rule? I mean, I thought -- I've looked up six cases,
and they all say, Strickland cases in this Court, that
you look at all the circumstances. Now, what I think is
radical on your part -- but tell me it isn't -- is not
what the rule is, but that you want one.
I thought the government's view normally was
the same as we -- what's the exact words -- did the
conduct of the lawyer meet professional -- prevailing
professional norms? And then we look to see, if it did
not, whether that led to a situation where he would not
have pleaded guilty but for the failure. Okay?
Now, the world is filled with 42 billion
circumstances. If we agree with you, we will have set
in motion the great legal rule machine. And there's
nothing better than lawyers spinning off rules. And we
will be here from now until -- good, we won't have any
docket problem, because what we'll be doing is reviewing
rule after rule after rule after rule.
So why has the government -- I think for the
first time, maybe not -- told us to abandon Strickland's
approach and start spinning off rules?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, we have not
abandoned Strickland's approach. What we have focused
on is, what is the Sixth Amendment right in the first
place? The Sixth Amendment right is not a right to have
a State-provided lawyer who will advise you about child
custody or about deportation or about --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. But it's easy -- I
mean, you know one thing we are very good at here is
making up hypotheticals. So I imagine it wouldn't be
that tough for me to think of a hypothetical where
everyone knows this 90-year-old individual who has
actually never set foot in the country that he came
from, and everyone knows that if he pleads guilty to
this chewing gum offense where they have virtually no
evidence, he will be sent back, at age 90, to that
country.
I would say any lawyer would say, be
careful, because if we plead guilty, back you go, on the
stretcher since you can no longer walk. See, all I did
was spin out a hypothetical.
And the reason I can spin those out and why
we have the Strickland rule is pretty clearly that you
shouldn't have sub-rules here because life is more
complicated than rules tell us. Just look to see
prevailing norm and did it cause the harm. And that's
why I am back to my question: Isn't this the first time
the government has asked us to adopt rules under
Strickland rather than what it says --
MR. DREEBEN: I think, Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- which is "case by case,"
underlined, italics, repeated in the cases?
MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, I think that
the fundamental point is that this is the first time
that the Court has been asked to adopt a rule under
Strickland that would require a lawyer, pursuant to
Sixth Amendment norms, to give advice that pertains --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, they are not asking
us to have a rule. What he is saying is, look to the
individual case and ask in this case, did the -- at
least that's what I heard him; he's in charge of his own
case. But I heard him say, look to this case, and in
this case, it falls below prevailing norms for a lot of
reasons.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Breyer, the --
the lower courts that have looked at this I think have
correctly recognized that there's a distinction between
saying that Strickland is a case-by-case inquiry into
lawyer competence and saying that Strickland requires
the lawyer to provide advice about collateral
consequences that are not the criminal case --
JUSTICE ALITO: But what are you going to do
in the situation where the defendant is concerned about
removal -- the removal consequences? And this is --
let's say this is a case out in some rural jurisdiction,
you have got a public defender or a retained attorney,
and the -- the attorney is -- you know, provides
advice based on the criminal law consequences and the
client says: Well, I'm also concerned about the
immigration consequences. And the lawyer says: Well,
immigration law is very complicated, and I'm not an
expert on this and I'm not going to tell you. And so
the client says -- and the lawyer says: If you want to
know about that you've got to get a deportation ­-
you've got to get an immigration lawyer. And the alien
defendant says: Well, I have no money; that's why you
were appointed to represent me. How am I going to get
advice on the immigration law issue? And the lawyer
says: Well, that's just too bad for you.
And that's the line you want us to draw?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Alito, I don't
think that he has a right under the Sixth Amendment to a
lawyer who will counsel him about the potential
immigration consequences of a guilty plea. That's not
what the Sixth Amendment was designed for.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What are the consequences
to the lawyer? I mean, let's assume you are a public
defender, and you are confronted with this situation.
Is it -- how -- how much skin is it off your teeth if
you provide the advice, even though you are uncertain,
and the advice turns out to be wrong? What happens to
the lawyer?
MR. DREEBEN: I don't know that anything
happens to the lawyer, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So, what incentive is there
to withhold uncertain advice? Is there any incentive at
all?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, the worst that can
happen is your client will get off.
MR. DREEBEN: There's the professional --
JUSTICE SCALIA: He'll make a guilty plea,
and afterwards it will be set aside.
MR. DREEBEN: There is a professional
incentive to provide advice where you are competent to
provide advice and not to provide it where you are not
competent. And I think that the focus on immigration
consequences illustrates two things:
One is this is an extraordinarily
complicated area of the law, where it is very difficult
to give advice. And for a lawyer to be expected to
master not only the criminal aspects of the case but
also the immigration aspects of the case will only tend
to divert attention from what the lawyer is really there
to do, advise --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, why shouldn't we
just adopt an amendment to Rule 11 in which the judge
says, any collateral consequences with respect to your
plea are not the concern of this court and will not be
grounds for setting aside this -- this plea?
MR. DREEBEN: Well, the former part is
certainly something that the Court could in its
rulemaking capacity do. The latter part is a Sixth
Amendment question. And I think it's highly notable
that the rules committee for the criminal rules has
twice considered whether to amend Rule 11, and is going
to consider it again contemporaneously with this case,
to require the judge to say to an alien defendant, you
may want to take into account removal consequences of a
criminal conviction.
In other words, there are rule-based ways to
address some of the concerns that Justice Alito raised
without constitutionalizing a new area of collateral
consequences that would impose new duties that actually
would divert the lawyer from his criminal law function,
whereas the misadvice line has not created those
problems.
And as I started to say earlier, the fact
that 10 Federal circuits have said no duty to advise on
collateral consequences, while 7 have recognized that
misadvice on collateral consequences can provide
relief, has not led to a series of difficult Strickland
hearings that are unmanageable. Justice Alito --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do we know that?
JUSTICE ALITO: What about the situation
where the attorney says nothing about -- I mean, removal
is -- is out there as -- as a real possibility, but it
just doesn't occur to the -- the defendant, and the
attorney doesn't even mention, you know, you might --
you might want to think about the removal consequences
of this?
MR. DREEBEN: Then the client does not get
relief for two reasons: One is because we believe
there's no duty to give that advice. But even if the
Court disagreed with me on that, such a defendant could
hardly show prejudice because he knew that he went into
his guilty plea with uncertainty, at best, about
removal.
And I think it would be very difficult to
show what he should have to show to establish prejudice:
First, that subjectively he would not have pleaded
guilty had he been given correct immigration advice;
and, second, that a reasonable defendant would have had
a basis not to plead guilty, because if the defendant is
going to be convicted after a trial in any event, the
same collateral consequence is going to ensue. The
defendant will not evade the collateral consequences of
removal if the defendant was going to be convicted at a
trial anyway. And perhaps --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you -- how do you
know that? In this case, Mr. Kinnaird told us the
defendant might have preferred to go to trial because he
had this defense that he didn't know what was in the
packages.
MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think courts will
evaluate that kind of a claim just the way they evaluate
any other Strickland claim and decide whether there was
any reasonable probability that such a defense could have
prevailed.
JUSTICE SCALIA: After -- after a
mini-trial, which deprives the government of -- of its
whole benefit from the guilty plea. Governments accept
guilty pleas in order to avoid the time and expense of
going to -- to a trial. And here you have to go back
and find out what the evidence would have been, so that
the court can make the decision you say is so easy.
MR. DREEBEN: This is the typical regime
that the Court has dictated under Strickland, and it has
not proved unmanageable in the courts that have adopted
the limited misadvice rule that the government
supports.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Dreeben.
Mr. Long.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WM. ROBERT LONG, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. LONG: Mr. Chief Justice, may it please
the Court:
In Hill v. Lockhart, this Court again
focused on voluntariness and said that voluntariness of
the plea depends on counsel's advice and whether that
counsel advice is in the range of competence of the
attorneys in a criminal proceeding.
Again, the focus was on voluntary. And in
Brady, this Court described a voluntary plea as "a plea
entered by one possessing full knowledge of direct
consequences." Thus, reading the cases together, it
would appear that the defendant need to have only
knowledge -- full knowledge of direct consequences, and
advice of counsel is just a tool to ensure that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, a plea is
something more than "I'm guilty." It is a strategic
decision not to put the government to its burden of
proof. Your definition of voluntariness suggests that
there is only one component to it, do I know what my
rights are, as opposed to, do I know what they are and
am making an informed decision to waive those rights.
Your articulation of the rule leaves out the
second component: Am I making an informed decision to
waive those rights?
MR. LONG: Well, I think under this Court's
precedent, the informed right is to know what those
rights are, what is the weight of the evidence against
you, and to make those strategic decisions. But that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But how do you do that?
I mean, your adversary's argument is, in their
particular case -- and I know that you dispute this ­-
there is a defense that could win at trial. And the
defendant comes in and says: Okay, what are my choices?
I go to trial and I may serve a longer sentence, but I
don't go to trial, I may serve that -- I do go to trial
and I serve that longer sentence, but it's here in the
U.S. and not in my home country, where I might starve to
death. I think I'll stay here and take that risk.
You're -- you're sort of ignoring that
component of information in terms of informing the
strategic choice of whether to take the risk and go to
trial.
MR. LONG: Well, we are not particularly
ignoring it. We are saying ultimately under the Sixth
Amendment what is prudent or appropriate may not
necessarily be what the inquiry is, but what is
constitutional mandated. And what is constitutionally
mandated here is to provide the adversary to waive
the -- put the Commonwealth's or the State's proof -- to
weigh it, to advise about it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, then that ­ that
goes to the Solicitor General's position, which is: You
may be right, an attorney doesn't have to give more
information than what's necessary. But doesn't the
calculus change when the defendant says, this is
important to me; give me accurate advice, if you are
going to give me advice?
MR. LONG: Well, the calculus may change
ever so slightly, but the -- I think the difference is,
is that misadvice is still -- is not materially
different than the failure to advise. Ultimately, the
-- the defendant still is left to -- to operate under a
misapprehension.
And the States are more than able to police
this kind of conduct, and in fact the States have. I
think it's approximately 27 States that do add to their,
quote, unquote, "Rule 11" and -- and require some sort
of inquiry by the -- the courts. And ultimately, it's
the States or the individual courts through their
rulemaking process or through legislative prerogative
whereby this could better -- best be addressed, rather
than constitutionalizing misadvice and trying to draw
this really hard distinction between no duty and the
duty to advise.
JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose a -- a client comes
in. You are a criminal lawyer and you learn the facts
of the case, and it turns out that, after listening to
the facts, you think he is being charged with a fairly
minor offense, a year maybe max, and he tells you: You
know, I have a family here, I've -- I've -- you know, he
tells you this story where it is quite apparent to you
that if he pleads guilty, back he goes, where he might
be killed and so might his family. Just sit there and
say nothing? What would you do?
MR. LONG: Your Honor, my -- my personal --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MR. LONG: -- personal obligation at that
point would be to try to answer the question. But,
again, the question --
JUSTICE BREYER: What would you do? I'm
asking you, would you tell him? He doesn't know about
the immigration law. He thinks it's just a year. You
yourself have learned that he probably will be killed,
as will his family, if he pleads guilty. Would you tell
him that?
MR. LONG: If I possessed that knowledge,
yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Of course you would. And
do you think of any -- can you think of any decent
lawyer who wouldn't?
MR. LONG: No, Your Honor. But --
JUSTICE BREYER: No. Okay. Then why have
you -- in this case, if they didn't tell him, why has
not such a lawyer failed to meet prevailing professional
norms in my hypothetical?
MR. LONG: Well, Your Honor, the -- first of
all, the prevailing professional norm or ethical
obligations that have been enacted in Kentucky and in
most States provide very general obligations and they do
not actually speak to this kind of situation.
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, I'm not saying whether
-- you have just told me that any lawyer worth his salt,
in my example, of course would tell the client, and ­- in
my case. And so I just asked, then has a lawyer who has
failed to do so not met the prevailing professional
norm? That has nothing to do with ethics or not ethics;
it's how lawyers behave. I don't see how you avoid
answering that question "yes".
MR. LONG: Well, I don't know that it's
necessarily a prevailing norm. It's -- it's a question
of ­-
JUSTICE BREYER: You just told me everyone
would do it, everybody'd do it. I don't know what a
norm is otherwise.
MR. LONG: Pardon me, but it's a question of
morals here to decide whether or not to offer that
advice. Now --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but assuming it's a
norm and that all lawyers do it, including those that
know diddly about immigration law, the norm is to give
bad advice. And -- and here the norm was met, right?
(Laughter.)
MR. LONG: Potentially yes, Your Honor. And
in fact it's really unclear what advice was given
because, as my opponent has mentioned, there was not an
evidentiary hearing, so what was actually said is
unclear. But I fear like -- that the misadvice
distinction made by the Solicitor General's Office does
--
JUSTICE BREYER: Before we get to the
misadvice, to put every -- dot every "i," every lawyer
would do it in my case; that's a professional norm. If
a lawyer fails to do it, he hasn't met the professional
norm. And a rule that's absolute would overturn
Strickland in that respect, because Strickland says if
you fail to meet professional norms, you are guilty of
inadequate assistance of counsel, okay? So Q.E.D.
Now, what's wrong with what I just said?
MR. LONG: Well, Your Honor, I would have to
disagree a little bit. I believe Strickland is not
quite that expansive. Strickland talks with regard to
professional norms and ethical standards as guides in
determining competent counsel, and does not set them as
hard, fast rules. And in --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought the point is
that -- I thought your point was that ­- that Strickland
does require professional norms to be observed, but it
is professional norms regarding advising a defendant as
to the trial consequences of his plea, as to those
matters that are involved in the prosecution, and not as
to collateral matters. Isn't that your point?
MR. LONG: Yes, Your Honor. The --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Those are the only norms
that are relevant, what norms oblige counsel to advise a
defendant regarding trial matters.
MR. LONG: Correct. And under Strickland --
under the Sixth Amendment, criminal defense attorneys
must focus on issues of guilt and innocence and penalty.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, everyone at the
counsel table I assume agrees that the plea has to be
voluntary. But "voluntary" has various meanings:
Number one, it is not coerced or forced. Would -- isn't
your argument that "voluntary" does not include being
fully informed?
MR. LONG: Our point -- would be not be
fully informed about every possible consequence which
would be in -- in -- completely --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well then, about important
collateral consequences. Is there -- are there any
cases that address this point one way or the other?
That is to say, the extent to which "voluntary" includes
the component of being informed about major
consequences, significant consequences of the plea? Can
I go anywhere to -- to read a discussion of this?
MR. LONG: Well, Your Honor, that's kind of
a problem, I believe. The cases that -- that do
address this issue seem to focus on voluntariness and
they focus upon the definition this Court espoused in
Brady, and they uniformly come up with the -- with the
conclusion that no affirmative duty is required. They
then jump from that position to the -- to a position
where misadvice somehow changes the inquiry. They fail
to focus again on "voluntary," where -- meaning full
knowledge of direct consequences, and instead reached
out to these kind of results-driven opinions that are
kind of fueled by this feeling of -- of unfairness.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Long, you said that
this is a collateral consequence; therefore, the lawyer
has no obligation to advise the client. But what was
remarkable about the case that you rely on, Hill v.
Lockwood, is the Eighth Circuit used the distinction
between "direct" and "collateral." In this Court, the
opinion said nothing about "direct" or "collateral"; it
just asked the question under Strickland, and it held
that Strickland does apply to challenges to guilty pleas
based on ineffective assistance of counsel. But it --
staring the Court in the face was this direct versus
collateral, and the Court was totally silent on that.
It didn't consider it relevant to its determination.
MR. LONG: You're -- you are correct, Your
Honor. The -- and, again, that silence has then led the
circuits to develop a rule. And the predominant rule is
that a voluntary plea following this Court's other
decisions which it has -- where it has spoken, that the
plea need only be entered by one possessing full
knowledge of direct consequences. The --
JUSTICE ALITO: What about the situation
where the -- the defendant would have made sacrifices
and obtained competent immigration advice, were it not
for affirmative misrepresentations by criminal
defense -- by criminal defense attorneys? The criminal
defense attorney says: Don't worry about it, you are
not going to be removed. And the defendant says: You
really sure about that? Because, you know, if you're
not, my relatives are going to get a second mortgage on
the house and we are going to go hire an immigration
lawyer so we can be absolutely sure about that -- this.
And the criminal attorney says: I'm an expert on this.
I've just had, you know, six hours of CLE --
(Laughter.)
-- on immigration law. And in reliance on
that faulty advice, the defendant pleads guilty and finds
himself facing removal.
MR. LONG: Well, following the logic of this
-- of the circuits and of this Court's guidance in
Brady, again, the inquiry for voluntariness is on direct
consequences, so it would not rise to a Sixth Amendment
claim.
Counsel may, nonetheless, be -- I'm not a
very -- I'm not a very good counsel in that situation.
However, as it was pointed out earlier, sometimes,
criminal defendants risk ordinary error with their
representation, and in fact, this Court has recognized
that in numerous cases.
In U.S. v. Ruiz, this Court kind of compiled
a group of cases, including Brady, McMann, and Tollett,
in which the defendant did, in fact, operate under
misapprehensions with regard to things that we most
often consider strategic, more direct obligations of the
trial.
They -- I think it was in Brady -- they
misapprehended the quality of the evidence and the
penalties and such, and this Court ultimately found
that, in all those cases, there is a certain amount of
ordinary error that is risked when pleading guilty, that
you risk a certain amount -- that your counsel may not
have made the best strategic decision.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this
question: Supposing this wasn't a drug crime -- a
sexual abuse of a minor, which would lead to all sorts
of restrictions on where the defendant could live and
report to as a resident, and the like, would there be ­-
would that be a collateral consequence or a direct
consequence, in the advice on that?
MR. LONG: I believe, Your Honor, that it
would be a -- a fine line, that it would technically be
a collateral consequence under the classic definition of
collateral consequence, that being whether or not it
falls under the control or discretion of the sentencing
court. The --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Even though the
consequence is a -- is something required by the law of
the jurisdiction imposing the criminal penalty, it would
still be collateral?
MR. LONG: The popular definition -- or the
most common definition focuses on whether it falls under
the discretion or power of the sentencing court.
In those jurisdictions that have sexual
offender registries, it is not a -- something that is
discretionary with the court. It is through the
executive agency that that is enforced, just like
parole, also just like your right -- to lose your right
to vote -- losing your right to bear arms.
All of those things happen automatically by
action of law, yet they remain collateral because they
do not fall under -- with -- under the discretion and
power of the sentencing court.
If I could remind you all -- I apologize for
putting "you all" -- but -- my being from Kentucky is
showing a little.
(Laughter.)
MR. LONG: The modern rules of professional
conduct are very, very broad, and there's -- I don't
believe that it can be demonstrated that they were
actually violated here, even under the alleged conduct.
The prevailing norms that the ABA puts forth in its
brief or the criminal justice standards are
aspirational. They -- they focus more on what --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you told
Justice Breyer that any good lawyer would give this
advice to a client?
MR. LONG: I said -- in response to Justice
Breyer, in the extreme circumstances, again, it would be
my opinion -- not necessarily the opinion of this Court
or necessarily it would fall under the Sixth Amendment,
but that, if you absolutely knew and that a -- a severe
collateral consequence is of great importance, you
should explore it.
The misadvice rule that the U.S. government
kind of puts forth as the hybrid position does -- I
do believe creates these collateral consequences as land
mines to be avoided.
I think it does, in fact, encourage criminal
defendants to be -- or criminal defense attorneys to be
silent in situations where they would otherwise be
more free in offering that advice.
And, again, offering the advice does not
necessarily raise it to Sixth Amendment purview because,
again, there are any number of things that are going to
come up in that attorney-client relationship.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: We are talking on a
highly general level, but what's facing us -- this case,
is there are certain crimes -- an increased number of
crimes that are classified as aggravated felonies, where
the rule is, if you are convicted of an aggravated
felony, you are out of the country after you serve your
time.
There's nothing mysterious about that.
There's nothing intricate about making that
determination. So why wouldn't a lawyer whose client is
an alien have an obligation, when there is an aggravated
felony as the charge, to say this will be the
consequence?
MR. LONG: Well, I think, in this case, we
are focusing on the obligation created by the Sixth
Amendment, and the Sixth Amendment obligation refers to
the criminal proceeding and the criminal prosecution and
then to aid in the defense.
Like the -- and we would agree with the
Solicitor General there, that the purpose for the
criminal attorney in that situation is to counteract the
expert of the Commonwealth or the State, is to ensure
the fair and just determination of guilt, not to advise
on collateral matters such as deportation, child
custody, and the like.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You keep insisting on the
collateral, although you recognized that in Hill v.
Lockhart, the Court did not draw that line.
MR. LONG: Well, ultimately -- and this
Court did not -- didn't draw any line. It was silent on
that point. And given the -- the way the lower courts
have reacted in drawing the direct and collateral line,
I think that's kind of where we have to go.
That's what the rule is of the lower courts
and it's the rule that has -- has been applied
throughout the nation, and we are testing whether or not
that rule makes sense, essentially.
And I think, ultimately, there is a
potential problem in treating deportation differently
than other collateral consequences. To do so ­- I
believe, at one point in Mr. Kinnaird's argument, he
does make the point that deportation, because it is of
such importance or that -- that it should be treated
differently.
But that is to suggest that it's so
important in all situations and it is more important
than collateral consequence that may affect citizens.
Citizens will lose the right to vote. They will lose
their right to jury service, perhaps lose custody of
their children.
And there's no principled reason to really
treat deportation differently. If the reason to treat
it differently because it is viewed as so severe, it's
truly then a subjective inquiry as what collateral
consequence is severe to this client.
And it ultimately prefers a class of
citizens -- those who are non-citizens -- over citizens
who may have just as much importance placed on
collateral consequences they face.
Moving real quickly, if I could just touch
briefly on the prejudice prong of Strickland. First,
I'm not -- well, I hesitate to say this a little bit,
but it's not completely apparent on the record that
counsel's performance was, in fact, deficient.
He did not misadvise with regard to any
direct consequence. Padilla does not allege that he
misunderstood any of the rights he was waiving, and at
least -- and up until his reply brief, he made no bones
about the fact that he was guilty.
And, in fact, that solemn and sworn
admission of guilt should not be lightly undone.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the defendant might
say: I have been in the United States for 40 years. I
have a family. I'd rather take my chances with a
jury and get put away for a longer time because at least
I'll be in prison where my children can visit me.
MR. LONG: Well, Your Honor, again, that is
a risk that is taken when asking questions to your
counsel. It would not necessarily fall under the Sixth
Amendment requirements.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Kinnaird, you have 4 minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN B. KINNAIRD
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. KINNAIRD: Thank you, Your Honor.
Three quick points. In Hill, the Court did
expressly hold that Strickland applies to the collateral
consequence of parole eligibility, so it is not just
for -- for trial consequences.
And, secondly, Brady is predicated on an
assumption that there is competent advice on the
strategic decisions --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excue me, I'm not sure that
parole eligibility could qualify as a collateral
consequence.
MR. KINNAIRD: It certainly would under the
-- Kentucky's test, Your Honor, because it depends on
such factors as the actual sentence, the prior
convictions of the defendant. Those are not things that
are known at the plea colloquy --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It goes to the sentence.
It goes to what the sentence will be, which is certainly
part of the trial.
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, under Rule 11, at least
prior to the abolition of parole, there was no
advisement in the district courts -- the Federal
district courts on that.
The second point is that it is predicated on
competency, and so the standard is not voluntariness.
When you are in the Sixth Amendment, you go to the
Strickland standard of incompetency, and then prejudice
within the criminal prosecution. And I emphasize that
is what we have here, the forfeiture of a jury trial
right. We are not talking about prejudice outside the
criminal prosecution.
And, finally, while we agree with the
government that the misadvice rule has proven perfectly
manageable in the 30 or so jurisdictions in which it has
been endorsed, there also have been a handful of
jurisdictions --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you say that? Why
do you say that? Or there has not been a revolution
or what? What -- how do you know?
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, Your Honor, I mean,
there's -- I think that there are something like 700
claims in over a decade or something like that.
So we don't know, but it's -- there has been
no evidence, that we are aware of, that the courts are
overly burdened by these, and there -- and even in the
jurisdictions that apply the broader rule, we, again,
are not aware of any flood of mini-trials. Many use the
Strickland --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- what is your
answer to the situation that I think has been
hypothesized, of the lawyer -- the defendant asks him,
what are the deportation consequences? And the lawyer
says: I don't know. I'm not a deportation lawyer. I'm
a criminal lawyer, but my best guess is that you are all
right.
What happens there?
MR. KINNAIRD: Well, Your Honor, I think
those would be adjudicated under Strickland, and,
remember, Strickland --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you can make a
claim when the lawyer disavows knowledge on the
question? In other words, he is trying to be helpful,
but he also warns the defendant.
MR. KINNAIRD: Yes. Under the broader rule,
you would have a Strickland claim. It would be very
hard to prevail on that because you would have to show
that it was unreasonable for him not to investigate
the consequences --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: "To investigate"?
So even if he doesn't know deportation and the client
asks him, he has to investigate that?
MR. KINNAIRD: He has to do whatever is
required by competent representation.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, just to be --
MR. KINNAIRD: That's the limited standard.
JUSTICE ALITO: Just to be clear about the
scope of your argument -- maybe you could just clarify.
Which, if any, of the following would you not put in the
same category as advice about immigration consequences:
advice about consequences for a conviction for a sex
offense, the loss of professional licensing or future
employment opportunities, civil liability, tax
liability, right to vote, right to bear arms.
Are they all in the same category? Or do
you -- do you draw a line some place?
MR. KINNAIRD: Your Honor, our principal
position is that the Court should not draw lines, that
that's the whole purpose of Strickland.
I would say, in the vast majority of cases,
for example, with the right to vote, the chances that
that's going to be material to a plea decision by a
defendant, especially one facing significant
incarceration, are probably almost nil, but this should
be left to the -- to the traditional Strickland inquiry
on a case-by-case basis.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:05 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
3:23,24 4:1,2,6 agreeing 15:23 appears 21:14 30:15 41:19
37:13 21:25 22:10 alien 14:12 26:4 20:1 51:7 51:11
55:4 30:6,18,19,24 Alito 4:18 5:1,8 appointed 30:5 attention 31:17
35:13 37:5,6 30:9 32:10,21 27:16 11:13,16,21
15:19 46:25 47:15,16 allege 50:10 approximately 43:21 44:2
51:11 54:8,9 alleged 46:19 37:15 48:15
16:9 20:19 amend 32:4 2:2,10 3:4,7 43:20 47:13
31:18 32:17 5:16 8:19 36:4 41:22 47:19
41:13 42:23 22:24 27:17,18 54:6 automatically
14:14 52:1 52:5 aside 31:6,23 aware 4:23
affirmance 1:20 answer 11:14 38:15 50:22
20:14 15:2 38:12 asks 53:5,25 B
21:8,10 22:2 answered 13:8 31:15,16 3:7 51:3
43:19 apologize 46:12 assess 8:22 9:16 38:6
agency 46:5 50:7 25:12 40:21 bad 22:11 30:7
43:5 briefly 50:5 42:4,10 44:18 49:19 50:20 client's 4:16
bringing 11:5 54:18 choices 36:7 cognizable 3:20
broader 22:3 categorical 3:12 42:25 13:11 16:16
2:4,6,9,12 brought 11:2,4 11:7 32:17 43:11 22:17,18 23:6
20:13 brown 18:2 category 54:8,13 44:9 23:23 25:14
51:4 burden 35:16 cause 7:7 25:9 circumstances 26:14,16 29:13
40:24 6:24 certain 45:3,5 47:2 41:10 42:3,22
45:14 business 16:23 47:22 citizens 49:16,17 43:1,2,7 45:12
47:10 busy 10:20 certainly 6:6 50:1,1 45:16,17,23
7:18 10:2 civil 8:3 9:3 16:6 46:9 47:6,10
C 2:1 3:1 22:22 25:16 claim 5:13 6:22 49:9,16,23
53:8 capacity 32:1 54:19 34:4,5 44:12 22:4 51:20
care 23:6 25:6 changes 42:16 claims 3:20 5:23 47:19
24:4 14:2 28:7 charged 38:2 10:17 11:3,6 37:24
44:10,20 22:5 25:23 21:1 22:7,15 clear 54:5 Commonweal...
51:10 28:19,19 29:3 22:23,25 23:1 clearly 28:11 36:23
28:18 29:18 31:15,16 25:3,18 26:1 10:14 11:21 29:12 35:5
29:1 32:5 33:24 32:22 34:20,25 16:1,2,3 20:19 competency
37:24 36:5 38:1 39:2 46:23 50:25 23:12 29:22 3:25 17:9 52:4
39:13 40:16 53:3,14,23 30:1 31:3 33:5 competent 9:19
42:24 47:21 55:1 37:24 39:12 9:25 31:8,10
46:24 48:8 55:2,3 child 27:19 42:23 46:25 41:2 43:18
cases 6:21 10:21 48:18 48:4 49:24 51:11 54:2
26:3,19,20 24:14 25:5,7 clients 14:6 9:15,15 14:9
35:10
29:14,17,21,23 17:3 20:10,18 courts 9:7 11:24 19:6,7,15 22:8
29:24 31:21 32:7,12 22:6,8,18,20 29:9 34:3,17 39:25
32:18,19 33:3 23:2,8,25 37:17,18 48:25 deciding 4:10,13
36:14 41:8 42:3,7,7 35:14 40:21 court's 16:23 4:19,19 15:19
42:18 43:15 41:2,13,19 19:23 35:24 16:22 17:11
49:9 50:3 51:9 45:5 50:23,25 cover 5:25 24:10,19 34:14
consider 32:5 counseling created 32:14 45:6 54:20
considered 32:4 counsel's 16:19 creates 47:10 43:13 51:12
constitutionali... count 6:11 crimes 47:22,23 6:7 10:6,8,16
constitutionally 21:24 8:12 11:12 12:18,22 14:9
37:14 containers 18:9 48:15 16:8,9,11 17:14 20:25
contemporane... counterweight 20:20 21:12,16 21:5,25 22:6
23:6,11 28:1,5 36:11 31:15 32:3,8 25:10,11,13,15
contract 8:3,3 course 16:4 37:25 41:16 32:6 33:1,8,16
10:13 8:5 court 1:1,12 44:2,16 45:22 35:11 36:7
20:24 control 45:18 3:10,11,14,18 46:21 47:12,13 37:4,11 41:7
33:19 conversation 3:19 5:13,21 48:11,11,15 41:14 43:17,22
42:22 11:20 6:17 8:10,21 52:7,10 53:8 44:6,21 45:10
convicted 5:4 8:25 12:4,18 curiae 1:19 2:7 50:16 51:19
47:6 33:18,21 47:24 12:23 13:2,4 20:13 53:5,17 54:21
49:16,24 conviction 4:24 14:18,18,22,25 custody 7:7 defendants
51:8,15 16:7 20:20 15:21 16:13,17 24:13 25:4 25:19 44:16
5:3 convictions 20:16 22:3,4 49:18 defendant's
6:11,20 51:19 26:20 28:23 14:19 16:12
8:12 9:1 correct 33:15 31:22,25 33:8 D 23:19
10:22 41:15 43:9 34:14,16 35:1 D 3:1 defender 10:20
correctly 29:10 35:2,8 42:12 damages 9:5 11:13 29:19
14:12 counsel 7:14 43:1,6,7 44:17 day 6:23 7:2 30:16
15:16 9:19,25 12:3 44:19 45:2,19 deal 21:16 25:7 defense 11:13
12:17,21 13:1 46:1,4,11 47:3 death 36:12 18:15,16,22
14:17 20:17 doubt 10:10,10 eligibility 51:8 executive 46:5
37:8 17:18 51:14 exercised 23:15
34:1,6 different 11:1,7 dramatic 16:5 emphasize 52:7 exist 22:2
41:16 11:10 37:10 draw 6:16 12:21 employment expanded 12:8
differently 49:8 21:4 30:8 54:11 expansive 40:25
48:12 49:13,21,22 37:21 48:22,24 enacted 39:7 expect 26:3
50:8 direct 35:9,12 2:5 20:11,12 ensue 33:19 26:12
45:16,24 43:15 44:10,23 21:22 22:14,22 35:13 48:16 29:25 44:2
45:12 49:1 22:24 23:4,10 entered 35:9 48:16
disadvantages 25:25 26:9 entering 10:17 explore 47:7
disagreed 33:8 31:1,4,7,24 especially 54:21 extent 42:5
45:18 46:1,10 driver's 6:9 essentially 49:6
7:5 9:20 46:4 drugs 18:19 ethical 39:6 41:1 face 21:5 43:6
12:9 discussion 42:8 due 9:13 12:12 ethics 39:15,15 50:3
27:20 dispute 36:5 12:15 13:25 evade 33:20 facing 22:20
48:18 distinct 8:21,22 duties 21:24 evaluate 34:4,4 44:7 47:21
distinction 32:12 event 15:1 33:18 54:21
14:22 15:13 duty 4:16 8:20 events 18:16 fact 9:4 32:16
24:6 37:22 40:12 16:2,9,10 39:22 44:17,21 47:12
42:25 20:18 23:11,13 evidence 9:21 50:8,13,14
43:8 15:22 52:1,2 E 19:11,13 40:10 failed 39:3,14
divert 31:17 E 2:1 3:1,1 exact 26:25 fails 40:17
doing 15:21 easy 27:21 34:14 example 4:2,12 37:10
falls 29:6 45:18
former 31:24 giving 26:7 guidance 44:9 He'll 31:5
forward 6:22 16:15,17 19:20 48:17 50:15 47:21
13:6 Frankfurt 1:22 49:2 52:5 10:18 12:4,10 51:7
32:17 free 23:24 47:15 goes 5:4,10 10:3 12:18 15:6,12 home 36:11
fueled 42:20 14:17 15:5 16:12,13,18,22 Honor 6:12 7:16
function 14:17 13:5,7,7 19:2,3 34:10,11 35:15 38:25 39:5
34:13 28:22 32:4 33:18,19 guy 25:6 53:11 54:15
23:9 G 3:1 54:20 half 13:16 hybrid 47:9
28:15 general 1:17,21 good 9:25 27:9 handful 52:14 hypothesized
33:14 6:18 24:17 27:22 44:14 handled 10:21 53:5
50:5 39:8 47:21 46:24 10:24 hypothetical
35:7 General's 37:1 8:25 20:21 happened 22:9 hypotheticals
42:11,12 40:12 21:13,21 24:15 happens 16:5 27:23
46:22 GINSBURG 27:12 28:16 30:19,22 53:10
35:3 14:10 17:20 47:8 52:12 53:20 idea 22:11
50:16 government's hear 3:3 illustrates 31:11
54:7 31:14 33:7 great 27:7 47:6 hearing 10:4,8 immigration
40:4 15:8 23:20 49:4 52:22 31:2,5,19 13:23 14:4,13
44:5 36:14 37:3 I'd 20:8 50:18 32:10,21,22,23 15:11,24 16:20
informed 16:12 I'll 36:12 33:23 34:8,20 17:5,8,13,22
35:20,22,25 I've 26:19 36:3,25 37:24 19:9,21 33:24
47:6 informing 36:14 J 39:1,10,21 52:19 53:11,18
50:2 innocence 41:17 job 4:4 26:4,11 40:2,14 41:4 54:1,4,15
18:22 14:25 15:4 JR 1:21 2:8 42:21 43:16 49:10
25:5,15 inquiring 15:6 34:23 45:7,20 46:21 knew 33:9 47:5
42:2 inquiry 7:17 judge 12:5 13:13 46:23,24 47:1 know 4:4 9:10
12:12 24:24 13:17 14:2,11 47:20 48:20 9:11 10:17
instances 9:6 29:18 45:22 K 35:25 36:5
8:10 46:2 52:13,15 Kennedy 8:2,24 39:18,22 40:4
54:22 intelligent 15:20 jury 10:9 17:17 21:18,23 31:19 52:18,22 53:7
31:8 interests 16:1 52:8 Kentucky 1:6 knowing 12:19
investigate 5:1,8,11,17,24 39:7 46:13 knowledge
investigation 8:24 9:5,18 51:17 35:12,12 38:20
44:20 involuntary 12:3,14 13:3 18:12 53:15
involve 7:14 14:23 15:2,17 kind 8:16 19:15 knows 12:6
isn't 11:9 18:3,8,21,25 42:20 44:19 Ky 1:22
37:18 6:18 17:10 22:7,15,23,25 Kinnaird 1:15 land 47:10
25:12 42:11 24:16,22 25:3 4:7,14,23 5:6 44:4 46:15
issues 7:14 25:18 26:1,18 5:10,12,20 law 16:4,6 21:2
16:2,3 italics 28:20 28:19,21 29:1 7:24 8:18 9:13 31:13 32:13
12:11,24 13:14 44:5 45:21
license 6:9 25:4 46:6 meanings 41:20 money 30:4
9:14 life 28:12 losing 46:7 21:25 morning 3:4
16:9,11 lightly 50:15 loss 25:19 54:10 meet 3:24 27:1 mortgage 43:24
limited 4:18 lot 29:6 39:3 40:20 motion 27:7
22:11,13 14:14 34:18 lower 29:9 48:25 mention 33:2 Moving 50:4
54:4 49:3 mentioned 40:9 myriad 16:16
24:2,3,9 limits 11:6 met 39:14 40:5 20:19
26:3 line 12:20 21:2 M 40:17 mysterious 48:2
27:1,19 30:8 32:14 machine 27:7 MICHAEL 1:17
29:12 45:15 48:22,24 main 7:10 2:5 20:12 N
30:1 49:1 54:14 major 42:6 mines 47:11 N 2:1,1 3:1
lines 6:16 54:16 majority 54:18 mini-trial 19:15 narrow 6:1
31:14 listening 38:1 making 27:23 19:22 34:9 narrowest 3:18
32:13 little 40:24 35:20,22 48:3 mini-trials 53:1 nation 49:5
38:24 46:14 50:6 malpractice minor 38:3 45:9 nature 22:1
live 14:5 45:10 26:10 minutes 51:1 necessarily
42:22 livelihood 7:11 manageable misadvice 3:20 19:22 36:20
46:24 Lockhart 35:2 52:13 4:7 6:1 8:13 39:19 47:3,4
53:5,6,7,8 48:22 mandated 36:21 10:19 17:5,10 47:17 50:23
Lockwood 36:22 20:23 24:13,14 necessary 15:19
logic 44:8 25:14 26:16 32:14,19 need 6:16 23:25
39:16 10:15 24:5 marijuana 40:11,15 42:16 43:14
34:22,23,25 17:25 18:5,10 47:8 52:12 net 25:19
23:16 37:7 38:9,11 material 4:8,9 misapprehend... new 32:11,12
47:1 48:8,23 55:4 4:8 21:8,10 normally 26:24
16:3 20:6 36:8,10 50:19 41:14 48:18 43:19 39:4 40:20
27:7 look 19:6 22:9 max 38:3 misreputation 41:1,6,7,12,13
30:15 looked 19:17,18 26:19 27:22 8:14 11:23 41:21
7:7 9:23 24:13 52:19 modern 46:16
34:11 pertain 16:18 28:22 38:12 pretty 7:8 15:21
16:13 45:4 2:12 3:8 51:4 49:10,11 52:3 14:3 53:20
38:11 outside 52:9 petitioners 2:4 pointed 44:15 prevailed 34:7
48:5,9 overly 52:24 20:4 points 51:6 prevailing 27:1
overturn 40:18 Petitioner's police 37:13 28:14 29:6
44:23 piece 15:8 position 4:6 37:1 46:20
17:19 18:4 14:21 15:1,6 49:8 problem 27:10
38:3 Pardon 39:24 15:10,12,14,19 Potentially 40:7 42:10 49:8
parental 7:18 16:12,13,14,19 power 46:1,11 problems 32:15
part 8:15 26:22 31:5,22,23 precedent 35:25 48:11
particularly 54:20 prediction 19:5 21:20 24:9
36:7 39:1 particulars 4:11,14,19,19 43:11 27:1,2 31:4,7
11:20 7:25 16:22 preferences 10:6 39:3,6,14
penalties 45:2 pleaded 27:4 5:22 10:3,4 prong 17:9,13
45:22 pleading 7:6,9 19:10 33:9,13 proof 35:17
50:8 44:6 12:1 16:8 19:1 41:9
person 5:4,4 please 3:10 37:19 prosecution's
quite 19:5 25:9 refers 48:10 37:16 41:6 53:9 54:12,12
Q.E.D 40:21 50:9 45:21 54:2 35:19,20,23
R 41:14 50:24 rise 44:11
29:13 raise 47:17 relationship resolve 11:24 45:5 50:22
31:8,9,9 raised 19:25 47:19 respect 5:18 risked 45:4
36:22 32:10 relatives 43:24 8:14 12:15 risks 9:10,11,12
range 35:5 relevance 8:12 22:18 23:13,16 9:16 16:3
29:20 reach 20:4 43:8 1:22 2:9 34:24 ROBERTS 3:3
29:19 real 32:25 50:4 remain 46:9 16:19,21 21:20 21:1 22:7,15
really 31:17 remainder 20:8 Restatement 8:4 22:23 23:1,5
54:17 43:23 49:20 remarkable restrictions 26:1 32:22
40:15 8:6 10:10,10 11:3,19 53:13 25:19 Ruiz 44:19
54:7 17:18 33:16 remind 46:12 results-driven rule 3:12 5:14
32:7,24 33:3 reverse 3:19 13:6,7,8,24
10:3 11:15 recognized reply 50:12 right 5:11 6:10 27:11 28:11,23
17:1 29:10 32:18 report 45:11 17:12 22:8,10 29:2 31:20
28:15 44:17 48:21 represent 9:15 22:12,12,14,15 32:4 34:18
38:12,13 recollection 30:5 22:17,20 23:2 35:21 37:16
11:23 representation 23:8 26:13 40:18 43:11,11
45:8 recommend 24:20 44:17 27:17,18,18 47:8,24 49:3,4
15:13 54:2 30:10 35:25 49:6 51:24
50:22 16:4 19:11,15,22 46:6,7 49:17 rulemaking 32:1
49:6 situations 5:18 started 32:16 54:17,23
32:3 sent 19:12 28:4 six 26:19 44:3 State 8:9 11:5 27:13,16
41:3 sentence 9:24 Sixth 3:12,14,20 19:25 20:1 strictures 11:5
36:8,10 51:18 3:24 5:16 8:19 48:16 strong 9:21
46:1,11 28:25 30:10,13 2:6 3:13 10:15 subject 5:7
26:2,2 31:6 41:2 skills 24:10 27:19 submitted 55:2
setting 31:23 skin 30:17 stay 36:12 55:4
39:10 Seven 26:15 slightly 37:8 stem 20:20 sub-rules 28:12
21:4,5,6 16:5 47:5 solemn 50:14 2:3,11 3:7 51:3 suggests 35:17
28:17 49:22,24 Solicitor 1:17 STEVENS 17:1 support 20:3
30:1 sex 54:9 37:1 40:12 17:6,12 45:7 26:12,17
31:21 sexual 45:9 46:2 48:14 45:20 supporting 1:19
36:7 shoulders 18:19 somewhat 22:3 story 38:5 2:7 20:14
40:19 show 17:16,24 sort 4:5 26:10 strange 12:20 supports 34:19
44:2 33:9,13,13 36:13 37:16 strategic 4:15 suppose 8:8 9:2
53:20 sorts 15:2 45:9 13:1 16:22 12:3,7 37:24
12:14 15:2 shrugged 18:19 35:14 36:3,25 35:15 36:2,15 suppression
18:8 side 10:20 source 8:19 44:23 45:6 18:14
30:14 significant 4:3 speak 39:9 51:12 supreme 1:1,12
31:2 42:7 54:21 special 17:23 strategy 11:12 3:11,19 19:25
34:8 40:2 silence 43:10 spin 28:9,10 strays 21:19 sure 5:20 7:20
51:13 silent 6:3 43:7 spinning 27:8,14 strength 19:2 7:23 12:5 13:9
52:16 47:14 48:24 split 5:15 stretcher 28:8 15:23 16:11,14
43:24 sit 38:7 standard 6:13 11:1,8,10,23 sworn 50:14
sitting 26:2 6:15 10:4 13:6 17:3,4 24:20 system 6:25
19:4,18 27:3 29:16 standards 3:25 32:20 34:5,16 T
27:2 30:16 32:23 25:17 41:1 40:19,19,24,25 T 2:1,1
39:16 39:9 43:16 46:21 41:5,15 43:3,4 table 41:19
25:1 19:7 23:12
32:7 33:7 48:2,3 tort 9:3 uncertain 30:18 virtue 22:22
50:18 49:20 52:20 totally 43:7 30:24 visit 50:20
27:22 touchstone 33:10 14:7 35:3,3,17
47:20 44:22 46:8 traditional 28:20 voluntary 12:19
47:18 51:19 54:23 undermine 13:19 15:20
13:3,12 15:4 trial 4:21,25 5:5 undone 50:15 49:17 54:12,19
28:13 20:21 21:9,22 14:11 15:3 uniformly 42:13 waive 35:20,23
38:15,18 22:7 23:10 17:16 19:20,23 uninformed 36:22
24:21 25:8,13 24:9 33:18,22 16:15 waiving 50:11
27:24 28:18,21 36:6,8,9,9,16 2:6 3:13 10:15 want 13:4,9 25:6
37:8,15 38:2 truck 7:10 17:25 14:7 Washington 1:8
49:2,7 52:20 16:2 53:21 way 6:5 7:4 8:24
thinks 38:16 try 38:12 use 53:1 42:4 48:25
18:8,8 26:19 53:16 U.S 36:11 44:19 weigh 36:24
50:25 Three 51:6 twice 32:4 V we'll 27:10
54:25 time 10:15,18,20 two 5:18 21:23 v 1:5 3:4 6:15 whatsoever
11:2,6 20:8 31:11 33:6 35:2 42:24 11:18
19:11 34:11 48:1 type 26:10 various 41:20 40:22
30:12 50:19 types 13:1 vast 54:18 whichever 6:5
54:20 told 6:7 9:9 typical 34:15 verdict 4:21 willful 17:24
11:6 19:6 46:23 ultimately 36:18 view 26:24 witness 11:22
26:14 Tollett 44:20 37:10,17 45:2 viewed 49:22 witnesses 19:2
31:4 tool 35:13 48:23 49:7,25 violated 46:19 WM 1:21 2:8
32:9 30 52:13
34 2:9
43:21 4 51:1
27:23 5
48:4 5 10:17 11:21,21
40:22 51 2:12
52:20
90 28:4
21:5 27:25
1:5 3:4
26:13 32:17
1:13 3:2
8:8,10 12:13
31:20
37:16
55:3
1:9
2:7
1:9
37:15
