IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC., :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-678
NORMAN CARPENTER. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, October 5, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
RANDALL L. ALLEN, ESQ., Atlanta, Ga.; on behalf of the
Petitioner.
JUDITH RESNIK, ESQ., New Haven, Conn.; on behalf of
the Respondent.
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
RANDALL L. ALLEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
JUDITH RESNIK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 23
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Respondent 41
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
RANDALL L. ALLEN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:05 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 08-678, Mohawk Industries v.
Carpenter.
Mr. Allen.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF RANDALL L. ALLEN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. ALLEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
For well over a century this Court has
recognized the importance of the attorney-client
privilege. In Hunt v. Blackburn in 1888, the Court
clearly states that the seal of secrecy upon
communications between client and attorney is founded
upon the necessity, in the interest of justice, that the
aid and advice of persons having knowledge and skill in
the practice of law provide that advice in a manner that
is safely and readily available and, importantly, free
from the consequences or apprehension of disclosure.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Allen, except for the
fact that you and I are lawyers, do you really think
that the -- that confidentiality right is any more
important to the proper functioning of society than,
let's say, the protection of trade secrets? So that in
a case of discovery where the defendant says, if I
produce this I would be giving up a trade secret and
it's not necessary for the case, and the judge says no,
turn it over -- would there be in your view a right to
interlocutory appeal in that case? And if not there,
then why here?
MR. ALLEN: Justice Scalia, there are --
there are several answers to the question. Let me
start, first, with the -- the issue of the importance of
-- of the attorney-client privilege as a key and central
element of the administration of justice that this Court
has recognized, not just with Hunt, but in a number of
cases since.
But the question I think also goes more to
prong three of Cohen, which is the reviewability
standard. In the context of attorney-client privileged
information, once that information is disclosed to your
adversary, it is disclosed to the last person on earth
you might want to see it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: The same thing with a trade
secret. It is a suit between another company who is a
competitor of yours --
MR. ALLEN: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the Judge says, turn
over your trade secret, the formula for Cocoa-Cola, and
you say no. No interlocutory appeal, right?
MR. ALLEN: I think with trade secrets --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or do you say there should
be an interlocutory appeal there?
MR. ALLEN: Your Honor, we do not argue
that -- here, that there should be an interlocutory
appeal for trade secrets. I think the practical
resolution to the trade secret question is present in
most cases of commercial litigation, where the court
would provide a protective order limiting access to the
trade secret; in other words, limiting access to
counsel.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But what if the court
doesn't, as Justice Scalia has posited? The court here
could do the same thing, depending on the secret being
disclosed. It could set up any number of protective
mechanisms.
The issue is broader than that, which is:
Why is the public policy of anti-disclosure any more
important in the attorney-client privilege than in the
trade secret context?
MR. ALLEN: Yes, Justice Sotomayor. But,
with regard to the attorney-client privilege, first on
the issue of the protective order, the protective order
cannot limit the adversary's counsel from seeing the
information.
As I said earlier, I think that's the last
person in the world you would want to see. You could
limit access to trade secrets to counsel, who could make
no use of the Coca-Cola formula or -- or Colonel
Sanders' chicken recipe, but -- but the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Ah. Are you sure?
MR. ALLEN: But -- but the answer to the --
the importance question, I think, has to return to the
central and important role that the privilege plays in
the administration of justice.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But isn't the role --
the central role -- role, is to encourage the frank and
open communication between client and attorney? That's
the purpose of the rule, isn't it?
MR. ALLEN: It -- it is the purpose of the
rule, at least in part, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. If that is
the purpose, the very existence of exceptions infringes
that purpose. The minute you create an exception, you
are placing some sort of limitation to the frank and
open discussion that you are permitting, so the damage
is already done.
The further disclosure doesn't really serve
the purpose -- or help the purpose in any meaningful
way. The fact that an erroneous decision on
attorney-client disclosure is not going to stop people
from talking to lawyers if they really need to and they
are staying within the rules.
MR. ALLEN: Your Honor, I -- don't think we
are here to suggest that it would stop people from
talking to their lawyers. I think the point is that the
incremental erosion of the rule is going to lessen the
value of the privilege. At this --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well -- but that's what
I'm trying to figure out, because you are positing that
erroneous decisions on disclosures are being made
routinely by the lower courts.
Assuming, as I do, that there are some
erroneous disclosures, but that that's not necessarily
the majority, why is there an incremental erosion
significant enough to overcome our interests in the
finality rule?
MR. ALLEN: Your Honor, I don't think we
suggest that -- that erroneous orders on privilege are
occurring routinely. Certainly, we have suggested they
occurred in this case and that they happened in other
cases.
But I think the more direct answer to your
question goes to the Court's holding in Upjohn. One of
the things that Upjohn points out is that what is
necessary -- and I think the Court makes a similar
observation in Swidler & Berlin, that one of the things
that's necessary for the privilege to have effect is
predictability.
If -- if there is no predictability, then
you fall back to the apprehension or the worry of
disclosure that is observed in Hunt.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Let's talk about
predictability. Once you make an exception for waiver,
there is already that limitation. It's not absolute.
Maybe it can be waived.
Secondly, you have to worry about a district
court finding it to have been waived, even though it
really wasn't. That's another point of doubt.
And, thirdly, you have to worry about the
Supreme Court affirming a district court that wrongly
found it to have been waived because we give, you know,
weight to the fact-finding of the -- of the district
court.
Once you -- once you factor in all of those
uncertainties, you are not talking about a -- you know,
about a fail-safe privilege at all. There are those
doubts, and I'm not sure the doubts are increased
enormously, by simply saying a district court may make a
mistake without -- without your being able to go up to
the court of appeals on that mistake.
MR. ALLEN: Your Honor, I don't disagree
that -- that the rule we search for will not still have
problems with the protection of the attorney-client
privilege, but I do disagree that it will not
significantly improve the quality of the rules that
counsel are -- are designed -- or counsel are -- are
instructed to follow.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Allen, you used a
term before, and I think you were right in using it --
you said, "interlocutory review," but
Cohen v. Beneficial is a narrow exception and it -- the
theory is, it is a final judgment. It's not
interlocutory.
And, nowadays, the courts have 1292(b).
They can certify a question, if they think it's
sufficiently important and they need an answer, without
pretending that it's a final judgment in the case.
So, given 1292(b), shouldn't we be
particularly reluctant to extend Cohen v. Beneficial to
include a case of a privilege that maybe was wrongfully
denied?
MR. ALLEN: No, Justice Ginsburg. I don't
believe that you do. I used the term "interlocutory"
only to refer to the fact that the appeal would take
place while the case-in-chief proceeds.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's what 1292(b)
was meant to deal with.
MR. ALLEN: I don't think 1292 would --
would obtain, in this instance, and I think the -- the
judge in the district court made this observation
himself, although he did not expound on his reasoning.
It would appear that the reasoning would be
that this -- that a decision in this case is not likely
to materially advance the ultimate determination of the
litigation, so, therefore, I think 1292(b) would not be
applicable in the ordinary case to a -- to a ruling
finding waiver of the attorney-client privilege.
JUSTICE BREYER: Why do you think that
your -- that this privilege -- or is it -- more
important than any other privilege? I mean, Justice
Scalia's question and your answer convinced me that you
can protect this the same as you can any other trade
secret -- any trade secret.
Of course, you do disclose it to the
opposing party, but that is also true of any breach of
any privilege, so husband-wife, priest-penitent,
psychiatrist and patient. I take all of those are
privileged. Do we allow collateral appeals there?
MR. ALLEN: No, Your Honor, you have not.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if we don't allow
collateral appeals with the husband and wife, with the
priest and -- and someone in -- you know, confession or
something, I don't -- with a priest, or with a
psychiatrist who is dealing with a patient, why would we
allow collateral appeal here?
MR. ALLEN: Your Honor, first of all, I
don't think the issue of those other privileges has, to
the best of my knowledge, come before this Court.
JUSTICE BREYER: But then if we grant your
collateral appeal, don't we have to, perhaps, equally
grant it in every situation, where a judge arguably
makes an erroneous ruling on a question of privilege?
MR. ALLEN: I don't believe you do, Your
Honor, and let me say, first of all, the -- the instance
that Your Honor points to, where the information would
be disclosed to the other party, it's not the other
party in this instance, that --
JUSTICE BREYER: It's the lawyer.
MR. ALLEN: -- that you are worried about in
first instance. It is, in fact, the counsel. And --
and, second of all, I think the importance criteria
as -- as previously defined in this Court's cases, is a
measure of the importance of the interest that will be
lost if appeal is not available now.
JUSTICE BREYER: So it's -- in your opinion,
it's more important to protect the lawyers, who talk to
clients, from erroneous rulings, than protect the priest
or protect the wife or husband or protect the
psychiatrist who is dealing with a patient?
Now, that's hard for me to see why. I mean,
I think lawyers are very important, but it's a little
hard to see why they are more important than these other
people.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is the use --
I'm -- I'm sorry if I cut you off.
But what is the use by the adversary lawyer
that you are worried about? That the lawyer is going to
used information against your client, correct?
MR. ALLEN: Correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So there is a remedy.
After final judgment, if the information was disclosed
erroneously, the court sets aside the judgment, sends it
back, and says, you can't use it in the future and so
make your case without it.
MR. ALLEN: Your Honor, that -- I apologize.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why isn't that an
effective remedy for the harm that you are claiming
exists in the disclosure?
MR. ALLEN: That is the analysis that the
Eleventh Circuit applied, and I think it was incorrect
for the following reasons: First of all, it treats the
attorney-client privilege as if it is a use privilege,
as you describe it in your questioning. It is not a use
privilege. It's a right to be free from compelled
disclosure. So returning to -- to trial is not going to
undisclose the information that's already --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You have to a right to
choose your lawyer and not to be -- and not to be
represented by a -- by a different lawyer, and yet we
don't permit that to be interlocutorily appealed.
MR. ALLEN: That's --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why is this any greater
in terms of the harm that your client suffers?
MR. ALLEN: That is correct, Your Honor, but
in the attorney-client privilege cases, this Court did
not find that collateral order jurisdiction did not
obtain because of the fact that the attorney-client
privilege or the attorney-client -- excuse me --
disqualification cases were not important. The Court's
ruling was premised upon the fact that that order was
sufficiently reviewable under prong three of Cohen. So
it's not -- the decisions were not based on Cohen --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I understand what the
court below did. I'm just following up on your point
about the importance of this privilege and why it's
critical that it be subject to interlocutory appeal as
opposed to the final judgment ruling.
MR. ALLEN: Justice Sotomayor, the -- the
importance in this instance is -- is measured against
the societal importance or the societal need for
non-piecemeal application of the final judgment rule.
So when you measure the attorney-client privilege and
the role that it plays in the administration of justice
in ensuring observance with laws against a rule of
efficiency, in this instance in our view, the
attorney-client privilege weighs heavier in that
consideration.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not -- it's not a
rule of efficiency. It's a firm final judgment rule
that we have in the Federal system. And we are talking
about a narrow exception. The exception was first
declared in Cohen v. Beneficial. The question there was
security for costs, yes or no? Does that -- that is a
pure question of law. It doesn't depend on the variety
of factual circumstances. Attorney-client is quite
different because it can often be fact-bound. It
depends upon this particular case.
Cohen v. Beneficial was meant for the kind
of question that doesn't get you into the facts.
Otherwise, once you get into -- once it's a fact-bound
question, you are really eroding the final judgment
rule.
MR. ALLEN: I understand your question,
Justice Ginsburg. I think in this instance, the facts
that the Court would need to consider are sufficiently
narrow that it should not trouble the final judgment
rule and sufficiently collateral --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you are carving out
an area, attorney-client privilege, as opposed to the
kind of situation Cohen v. Beneficial dealt with.
Here's a rule that a State has. You have to put up
security for costs before you go ahead with a class
action. The answer to that is either yes or no, that it
either requires it or it doesn't require it. No facts
at all. You just have a class action, you need security
for costs.
Maybe this particular case doesn't involve
many facts, but there will be attorney-client privileges
cases, waiver cases that surely do. So we can't take
that category, attorney-client privilege, and equate it
to what was the kind of question at issue in Cohen.
MR. ALLEN: I agree, Justice Ginsburg that
that was the kind of narrow issue that was at issue
in -- in Cohen v. Beneficial Industrial. But this Court
has considered much more factually intensive cases in
the context of qualified immunity or maybe as a better
example, the context of the double jeopardy claim such
as in Abney.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because those are cases
that say your right is not to be tried, your right is
not to be exposed to trial at all.
MR. ALLEN: That is correct, Your Honor. My
only point is that the appellate courts are perfectly
capable and able to consider the facts that are at issue
in those cases, and it does not unduly burden the
appellate process in the context of those type of cases.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask two yes or no
questions? One, did you, in fact, ask for a 1292(b)
right to appeal, make an interlocutory appeal?
MR. ALLEN: No, Your Honor, we did not.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And the second question
is, would your rule apply if the decision had gone the
other way? If they had denied access to the documents,
would the other -- would the person seeking discovery
have the same right to appeal that you asked for here?
MR. ALLEN: No, Your Honor, the -- the party
losing the claim would not have the same right to
appeal.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Why not?
MR. ALLEN: I think access to information in
the course of discovery does not trigger the same
important interest that orders compelling discovery of
attorney-client would trigger? So I don't think that
they would in any way satisfy that test. And I think,
in fact, the question presented as designed even by
Respondent does not capture orders that deny the
disclosure of attorney-client privilege information.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Some time ago
Justice Breyer asked the question of why is this
different than the other privileges, and I would like
your answer to that.
MR. ALLEN: Justice Breyer, I think that the
answer to that question has to focus on the role that
the privilege plays in the administration of justice,
and it's why I went, in response to Justice Sotomayor's
question, why I went to the balancing between the
interest of the attorney-client privilege versus the
interest of a more rigorous application of the final
judgment rule.
So -- so, while I think it is instructive to
compare the privilege to other privileges that the Court
may in the future confront, I think the proper analysis
is to balance that, that rigorous application of the
final judgment rule, to the attorney-client privilege.
And I think in that instance it resolves more quickly.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Allen, one of the
purposes, one of the -- the underpinnings of
Cohen v. Beneficial is that this kind of question is not
going to come up very often, but attorney-client
privilege, once you say that that's open to --
everything stops while you go to the court of appeals to
get that. And if you -- and if we hold the way you want
us to, then a lawyer will be obligated every time she
thinks that she has a valid claim to the privilege or
that it hasn't been waived, she would be obligated to
take an appeal which you are urging would be an appeal
of right.
MR. ALLEN: Justice Ginsburg, I don't
believe that the attorney would be obligated to take the
appeal. And I believe that the -- that the facts that
we've laid out in our brief with regard to what has
actually occurred -- we wonder how many appeals might
take place. We know how many appeals might take place,
because we have the experience in the Third and the
Ninth and the D.C. Circuits that tell us that in the
11 years since Ford was decided by Judge Becker in the
Third Circuit, the opinion by Judge Becker in the Third
Circuit, that there have been only 11 such cases brought
up on appeal. So, we have some experience to tell us
what will actually happen.
But I don't believe it requires that the
attorney as a matter of obligation take that appeal.
The Court, I believe, dealt with this same issue in the
Behrens v. Pelletier case, which is a qualified immunity
case, where the Court wondered whether or not there were
going to be an increase, a significant increase in
the -- the appeals that arose out of -- out of the
Court's holding. And the Court observed that the only
conclusion that could be reached -- and I believe the
Court quoted in that opinion the opinion of Judge
Easterbrook in the Able case in the Seventh Circuit --
that the only conclusion that could be drawn is that
there was forebearance by the lawyers in taking appeals
that they otherwise had the opportunity to take. I
think there is no reason to conclude that there would be
a difference in the analysis in -- in the case here.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you -- just so I'm
clear about your position, are you arguing that all
issues related to attorney-client, whether they are
waiver, crime or fraud, scope of the privilege,
et cetera, that all issues are immediately appealable
because the public interest is the same in all cases
related to the attorney-client privilege, or are you
wanting us to limit this rule only to the waiver cases?
MR. ALLEN: Correct, Your Honor. We have
asked that the Court address, in this instance, the
question presented having to do with only waiver cases.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So -- but your position
logically would apply to everything, wouldn't it?
MR. ALLEN: Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Otherwise, how do we
distinguish or make a difference in your analysis?
MR. ALLEN: I think it's certainly -- it
certainly should be assumed that if this Court rules in
our favor, it must conclude that the attorney-client
privilege is important. If it concludes that the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No one is doubting its
importance. The issue is whether or that importance
outweighs the finality rule. That's a very different
thing for you.
MR. ALLEN: I -- I agree. But -- but in
order to get to -- to the position we advocate, the
Court must pass that threshold and establish importance.
If the Court reaches that conclusion it is certainly
likely that the importance test in other existence-of-
privilege cases, for example, would obtain.
I -- I don't think that compels the
conclusion that any case addressing privilege must
therefore be permitted collateral order jurisdiction.
For example, I believe you recited the crime fraud
exception in your question. Certainly crime fraud
exception might present a difficulty with prong two of
the Cohen analysis, which has to do with the
separability of the issue on appeal for merit. So it
may well be that in crime fraud cases there is not
sufficient separability of the issue from the merits and
therefore collateral order jurisdiction would not
obtain.
As I mentioned earlier, I think we are in
agreement that orders that deny the disclosure of
information would not be immediately appealable. So
there are -- there are a number of instances that this
Court might find in what I'll call general privilege
cases that might not obtain, and it's the course that
the Court has taken in other sort of general areas of
law. For example, in the attorney disqualification
cases, the Court started off in Firestone finding that
orders denying disqualification did not satisfy
collateral order jurisdiction and it limited its
holdings to -- to that instance.
In Flanagan it took up the question of
whether or not collateral order jurisdiction obtained in
disqualification cases and criminal cases, and in
Richardson-Merrell in civil cases. So the Court has
traditionally taken, if you will, the facts of the case
presented to them and limited its rulings to the facts
of those cases. We suggest that approach in this case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there any sensible
line between an invocation of the privilege, denied, and
a holding that the privilege has been waived? I know in
your reply brief you -- you draw some kind of a
distinction between waiver of the privilege and the
existence of the privilege. I didn't follow it.
MR. ALLEN: Other than the examples that I
--- that I just gave, Your Honor, I don't think there is
a principled difference between the finding of
importance, and that is -- that is clearly a threshold
issue. As Court said in Will, it's the -- the -- what
the issues ultimately boil down to.
So with regard to that issue I -- I agree,
but with regard to crime fraud exception or instances
when no disclosure is ordered, another example that I
think the Respondent points to in their brief is
instances of inadvertent disclosure. Instances of
inadvertent disclosure would not trigger the -- the
prejudice element necessary because the -- if you will,
the cat is in fact already out of the bag at that point.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: There is another. You
are stressing the importance of the attorney-client
relationship, the work of the attorney. Do you extend
your position to work product? It's not privileged.
MR. ALLEN: No, Your Honor --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's certainly --
it's certainly protected against disclosure.
MR. ALLEN: We do not extend the -- the rule
that we advocate to work product in the -- in the broad
sense. Certainly there are exceptions within Rule 26 to
when work product can in fact under the right
circumstances be disclosed. So we are not embracing the
-- the work product as a general rule. Certainly the
mental impressions of client -- of counsel, which is the
important exclusion of the work product doctrine in Rule
26, we would embrace as a -- as an appropriate
limitation on the rule that we are advocating.
Mr. Chief Justice, if there are no further
questions, may I reserve the remainder of my time?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Ms. Resnik.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF JUDITH RESNIK
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MS. RESNIK: Thank you. Mr. Chief Justice,
may it please the Court:
Before 1997, no circuit held that there was
appeal as of right for privilege or waiver, and most of
the circuits continue that approach. That is the right
approach because attorney-client privilege cases do not
fit the parameters of the Cohen appealability and there
are alternative responses that are available on the
remedial side. In terms of the Cohen factors, the
factor of importance which has just been discussed here,
this Court has over the 60 years of some 30 opinions
refined the importance test and moved it away from the
questions of place, shape of litigation, dynamics of
litigation, to a very narrow set of cases in which a
government is typically a party or a government
official, and there is a very significant either
constitutional or statutory question principally of
immunity from suit.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will get to that,
I think, when the government lawyer gets up. But does
that distinction make sense to you?
MS. RESNIK: I think the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Government lawyers
get the privilege, private lawyers don't?
MS. RESNIK: As I understand the
government's position here, it's that ordinary lawyers
don't get the privilege in ordinary litigation. The
government is here to speak to the question of State
secrets and particular kinds of particular official
privileges, but not to the regular case. And I think
it's important that we understand from the presence of
them that this is a rule that is appropriate for lawyers
on all sides of the fence, because the immediate
availability of appeal as a right stops in the tracks.
The case was decided at the district court in October of
2007 and, holding aside these proceedings, it was August
of 2008 when the Eleventh Circuit rejected the mandamus
and the appeal.
So the wisdom of the final judgment rule is
precisely because the cost and delay, particularly in
the area of discovery and evidentiary privileges, is so
significant given that there are so many of these. And
one of the important --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But we are talking
about the central privilege to the maintenance of the
adversary system which we've determined to be central to
maintaining the rule of law. This is not like the other
privileges, priest-penitent, other evidentiary
privileges, because it is the privilege that allows
lawyers to protect the interests in those other cases.
And it just seems to me that -- that to allow a single
ruling by a district court judge to undermine the
privilege is going to affect people.
What -- I mean, the statement of the lawyer
could be, look, you are going to lose this case, and you
are saying the district court can require the disclosure
of that without allowing at least a quick trip to the
court of appeals to check it out.
MS. RESNIK: Well, there are remedies --
there are two directions for an answer. One is that in
all the courts of appeal of the three circuits that have
this rule, work product as well as attorney-client
privilege is available on appeal in the Third Circuit.
Trade secrets is available, although the Third Circuit
has raised questions given Will v. Hallock and
Cunningham about whether or not this remains a viable
position, but trade secrets is available.
Psychotherapists is appealable, spouse is appealable,
and nontestifying experts as well. Which is the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That is in the Third
Circuit.
MS. RESNIK: Well, the Third, the Ninth and
the D.C. together are the three that have opened up the
door, and they have found -- the experience of those
appellate judges has not found that it is easy to make
the distinction among these, and as a consequence there
is appeal as of right to this entire cluster of cases.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Allen has told us
that there are very few cases, in fact 11 cases in I
don't know how many years, in the Third Circuit.
MS. RESNIK: Well, I take to be -- the
cheerful news is that by and large everyone is getting
it right at the trial level. But we are looking at the
question -- first of all, one question would be how to
count the cases of whether there's these other appeals
as well.
But more importantly, both the law professor
and judge amici in our brief asked to look at the
pipeline, and there are two levels of the pipeline, or
three. One is that in the district courts we try to
look at the numbers of instances when trial judges write
opinions, magistrate and district judges, which is only
the tip of that iceberg.
As best we can tell, somewhere between 10
and 30 times a month in Westlaw reports one can find a
conclusion either upholding or denying disclosure.
Moreover it's sequential --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it matters
which they do, right? If they are denying disclosure
the statistics don't mean much.
MS. RESNIK: We found about half the cases,
and the law professors amici and judges amici found
about 104, in which in which disclosure was required, in
the six-month period. So there is a significant number
at the trial level that exists in terms of the pipeline.
If we go just to the case that is before you, the
Federal district judge reserved question on a second
attorney-client privilege question because issuing a
protective order on the deposition, there is a related
case here and he precluded the lawyers from
participating in it.
JUSTICE ALITO: I was on the Third Circuit
for eight years under this regime. And it didn't seem
to me that the sky was falling. In fact I can't
remember any cases, any appeals involving this issue,
and we had lots of cases of a variety of kinds. So
maybe there's -- I don't want to be a witness in this,
but you know, convince me that the sky really will fall
if we were to adopt this.
MS. RESNIK: I am not going to convince you
that the sky is going to fall, but I am going to suggest
that the Cohen rule does not apply to these cases not
only because the sky isn't going to fall. The empirical
question is there will be more cases for sure and there
will be more people with comparable privileges knocking
at the appellate doors, and they'll be sorting, so that
goes to the county. Do we count the cases that knocked
and you said no to as well as the cases you said yes to.
The other case is that the Cohen rule
requires a particular kind of importance and a
particular kind of severability. In this case, the
trial judge said, in fairness, there has been a waiver
because you've injected new issues in the case. In
order to get to the in fairness waiver injection, you
have to know the facts of the case and weigh the waiver
against the other facts in the case.
JUSTICE ALITO: So the Eleventh Circuit was
wrong on that issue? Didn't they hold that this was --
this was separate from the merits?
MS. RESNIK: In our view, every one of
the -- this case fails the test on all four -- three to
four of the Cohen prongs, which is separability and
conclusiveness or -- or distinct ideas, potentially,
importance, and remediability. And therefore, the
embeddedness here is typical of cases, CrimeStar was an
example already mentioned, in which the factual
predicates are here. In terms of coming back to the
piecemeals, in this case the trial judge reserved the
question. The lawyers below have asked for a
pre-ruling. The questions to be asked at the deposition
will not waive attorney-client privilege. The trial
judge said, I don't know the answer to that, it hasn't
been fully breached and we don't know what you are going
to ask. Therefore, in this very case, if the rule were
that you could appeal as a right, you could be back in
this case twice to the Eleventh Circuit during the
pendency of the case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Ms. Resnick, can you go
back and articulate what you see as the rule that we
have on what is important enough? Because that is what
really is at question. So how would you articulate a
rule that would apply both to the cases in which we have
granted interlocutory appeal and to those that you are
advocating we don't. Because it's not just freedom from
suits like qualified immunity or double jeopardy. We
have granted interlocutory appeal in other cases,
including in the Cohen case.
MS. RESNIK: Well, Cohen involved the major
question of the application of the Erie principle in
1949 involving a state -- the right of security for
expenses. And I would take Cohen and the Vale case and
the drugging case of Sell as instances in which, is the
litigant, during the pendency of the case, going to be
economically secure or free, or drugged or not drugged,
as distinct qualities which are all framed in either
State law or Constitutional premises. If we look over
the course of the 60 years, the category is not neat.
But the turning point is in 1978 with the Coopers
opinion which says death knell, which says strategic
interactions, the shape of class actions, is not
available for appeal as a right.
In 1994, one might have thought of the
digital case that a contract not to continue by -- just
settle would have been within the set, but the Court
said, no, that kind of private contractual interest is
not sufficient.
And in 2006, in the Will case, the court
narrowed it again by saying the res judicata sequence is
insufficient. So in the last decade the Cohen cases
have come down to basically qualified immunity or
Constitutionally-freighted -- structural or almost
abstract, not interpersonal dynamics of the litigation,
including contractual relationships or evidentiary
privileges.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But are you suggesting
that -- that Cohen itself wouldn't come out the same way
today if the question of security for costs, whether
State or Federal, hadn't been settled?
MS. RESNIK: Well, Cohen predates this --
the Congress's creation of 1292(b), which you mentioned
earlier, Justice Ginsburg. And so what it is looking at
is, when Cohen was initially decided it opened a window,
but in the relationship between Court and Congress, the
judicial conference went to the Congress and said, We
need a broader window, and Congress adopted verbatim in
1958 the 1292(b) criteria which, clearly, Cohen would
have been eligible for or potentially eligible for, and
there are attorney-client privilege cases that do go off
under 1292(b).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it is a bit of a
hurdle, isn't it, since you do have to satisfy the
materially advanced -- the litigation and those other
criteria?
MS. RESNIK: There are a few selective
waiver cases. There are a few of these that come up,
but you are completely right that it is a hurdle but we
have alternatives here as well. As the example of the
-- once the Federal Court Study Committee suggested we
needed more appeal rights after the Coopers case,
Congress responded by authorizing the Court through its
rulemaking to provide interlocutory orders as final, and
23(f) is the next example, which also provides the
mechanism.
The basic point is that there are other
routes. The remedial prong of Cohen is amply responded
to here, because first, internal to the case, there
could be protective orders and limited disclosure.
Second, you can take the issue and stipulate it against
you. Third, you could actually, if you ever did go to
trial, not testify. That's the Jackie B. Redman
scenario. Fourth, you have the after-a-fact appeal.
Fifth, mandamus is available, and there are circuit
courts.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that is only in
egregious cases.
MS. RESNIK: In the extraordinary case there
is mandamus. There is also certification, and all of
these are routes that are filtered. Cohen opens the
door completely.
JUSTICE ALITO: Are you -- are you arguing
that the collateral order door is closed now? That --
that nobody else is going to get through that door?
MS. RESNIK: I can't forecast future cases,
except to say that this Court has repeatedly in the last
decade narrowed the door substantially. And I take it
it has come in relationship to the door opening through
the other mechanisms, Congressional carve-ups like the
Classified Informations Procedure Act, the Congressional
carve-up in Catha, and each of those isn't a wide-open
door, but either discretionary or timeframed or limited.
And of course, that goes to the problem that an
interlocutory appeal really is interlocutory and stops
everything, whereas the 23(f) rule says after the court
order, there's nothing stayed at the district court
level.
JUSTICE ALITO: An interlocutory appeal
doesn't have to stop everything, does it?
MS. RESNIK: The -- as a rule of filing a
notice of appeal with a court of appeal at the -- a
statutory rule provision puts the -- stays the district
court activity. That's why 23(f) moderates that rule,
as I understand it.
Further, I wanted to come back to the
question here in terms of importance. Rule 501 and 502
of the Federal Rules of Evidence, Number 502 has just
been reworked. 501 remains that in some of these the
existence of the privilege will arise -- will be a
question of state law. I know of no one of the Erie
cases in which the interlocutory appellate question
turns on the question of state law as a predicate, and
the D.C. Circuit rule is that it's when there's an
adverse privilege ruling that you get appeal as a right.
It's -- that's the D.C. circuit's rule for -- and
indeed, it had several of these, not very many, but a
few of these cases.
So then 502 has just come with the workings
of the judicial conference and the Congress together,
and the lawyers, to shape a rule that is very protective
of inadvertent waiver, protective about its sequential
impacts as well, and articulating and Federalizing that
area of law, as well as providing under 502(a) for -- if
you waive in the course of a Federal proceeding, 502
organizes the way a district court should think about
it.
If there were appeal as a right of waiver
right now, after this case, then all those 502 cases
could come directly, whereas instead a few might get
here or not by 1292(b). And again, if it looked like
there needed to be a wholesale reworking because of the
vulnerability of the system, then the Court and
committee working with the lawyers can draft together
some revision. But the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The usual way that
the district court, after denying the recognition of the
privilege, insists that people proceed is, they want the
lawyer to go to jail. They say, You've got contempt,
you can appeal contempt. The district judges, as you've
mentioned, they want these things to move on and they
tend not to think that their rulings are in error, and
the lawyers are frequently confronted with an extremely
difficult choice, of violating what they think is their
ethical obligation or going to jail.
MS. RESNIK: Well, it is the case that Judge
Wilkinson recently reiterated Judge Friendly's
suggestion that -- or commentary that contempt is a
provision that is available. And it is a route. But
we've found --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And how -- how is it --
unless the judge cooperates, it has to be criminal
contempt. It wouldn't be civil contempt. The judge
says, I'm not going to hold you, and --
MS. RESNIK: What -- we have found that many
courts of appeals have responded, precisely because of
either the draconian nature of criminal contempt or the
possibility that it won't issue, by looking at some of
these cases, in the extraordinary instance, through
mandamus and there are at least a dozen mandamus --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But mandamus is supposed
-- not supposed to be a run about the final judgment
rule, and if -- and if Cohen v. Beneficial is available,
then mandamus would not lie, right?
MS. RESNIK: That is directly -- that is
exactly correct, yes. It is that the appeal of these
unappealing groups is because the final judgment rule
says even if there is an error and even if it's a very
important error, absent this very narrow category of
cases that are final through our gloss on Cohen, the
basic plan is you wait till the end.
In this instance, this district judge, in
the related case, certified under 1292(b), the RICO
question that came back -- came up to this Court, it
also had a 23(f) appeal in this case.
So this is actually a textbook case, if you
will, of watching both the pros and cons of
interlocutory appellate review, and, in this instance,
what we see is that the district court, here, said this
is too run-of-the-mill for 1292(b).
However, if you want, cooperating with the
lawyers, I will -- I will put everything in abeyance, if
you want to seek mandamus. And so the district judge
was attentive to the lawyers' concerns, moreover because
the district judge has put a protective order on related
materials.
We have an example of a district judge, who
is very aware of the parameters of the litigation, and
that goes to remedies. We dont' know --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, a protective
order isn't going to work -- a protective order isn't
going to work at all. You're not going to -- I mean,
the lawyers on the other side get the privileged
material, so they don't care -- I mean, in terms of the
viability and protection of the privilege, it doesn't
matter if the clients get it.
MS. RESNIK: In -- the -- underlying the
privilege is the workings of the system for both private
ordering and for the justice system. The rare instances
in which a trial judge affirmatively makes a finding of
waiver through conduct, in this instance or in some
other way, are going to not undermine the privilege in
its initial formation, and the final judgment rule has
said, repeatedly, We could get it wrong on class action
certification. We could get it wrong on attorney
disqualification.
Nevertheless, the costs of the final
judgment rule are so substantial --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the -- you
know, the -- the American Bar Association has said the
exact opposite. It will say that the opening up of the
privilege and the disclosure, however rare the case is,
will, in fact, undermine the -- the value of the
privilege.
MS. RESNIK: I appreciate -- and before you
on amici, on both sides, are people deeply committed to
the administration of justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, sure, the other
people are, too, but we -- I, at least, look at a brief
of the American Bar Association and view that as a
representation of how the people affected here, the
lawyers, view the value of the privilege and what will
happen to it.
MS. RESNIK: And I believe that the judges
and lawyers and law professors, who have written to you
on the other side, are committed to understanding that
the privilege is important instrumentally. The trial --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, but the law --
the law professors aren't the ones who deal with this
question on a day-to-day basis and have to worry about
going to jail, if they want to protect their client's --
what they view as their ethical obligations.
MS. RESNIK: There are many provisions short
of going to jail, and, furthermore, I want to come back
to the -- to the rule, the limited --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it's only going to
jail that gives you criminal intent.
MS. RESNIK: Yes. It is.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's immediately
appealable.
MS. RESNIK: And the -- the underlying
insight of Cohen, is that there are many instances when
dramatic events occur in the dynamics of trial, but the
Congress has concluded that the final judgment rule
requires waiting till you get to the end.
And in the instances -- contempt, as
standing here as an alternative around that rule, as is
mandamus, as is 1292(b), are small windows, not for the
regular course of events.
The empiric suggests that, by and large,
people are getting it right, but there will a lot of
requests for review and the strategic dimension, which
is what the attorney-client privilege and the class
action holdings in Cohen are about, will invite more of
the strategic play, so that, in the plea from the judges
who also participated in the amicus --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Is the attorney-client
claim sometimes raised, along with a host of other
discovery issues, as a bargaining chip?
MS. RESNIK: These are packages that -- yes,
the attorney-client privilege -- and this is granular
work by district and magistrate judges of -- of hundreds
of thousands of pieces of paper.
It could go, piecemeal, to the court of
appeals more than one time and it can also come up, even
at trial, interrupting a trial. So we could watch the
sequence of a frequent, repetitious return back and
forth to the court of appeals on this kind of privilege
and, potentially, on other kinds of privileges.
Thank you very much.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
Mr. Kneedler?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court. In the last 15 years, this Court, in
applying the principles of Cohen, has repeatedly
stressed that a necessary requirement is that the order
involved and the issues implicated be important and,
particularly, that the issues be so important as to
outweigh the values served by the important and usual
rule of a final judgment requirement.
In our view, the denial of an assertion of
attorney-client privilege in an individual case does not
rise to that level and to the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, except when
the government is the one raising it.
MR. KNEEDLER: No. We do not -- we -- to be
clear, we are not asserting that an -- that an assertion
of attorney-client privilege by the government is -- is
immediately --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but, in the
government context, what would be in the private
context, an attorney-client privilege, is redressed as a
different type of governmental privilege.
When you give advice to a government agency,
you don't call that the attorney-client privilege. You
call it a governmental privilege, a deliberative
privilege, all these other things.
In the private sector, when you are an
attorney and you give advice to a client, you can't say,
This has got something. It's the attorney-client
privilege.
MR. KNEEDLER: Let me also stress, we are
not arguing that a denial of the assertion of the
deliberative process privilege is immediately
appealable.
Our -- the -- the submission that we make in
the latter part of our brief, and that we urge the Court
not to foreclose here, is the Presidential
communications privilege, which applies to
communications involving the President or his top
advisors.
And we also say that the State secrets
privilege raises similar concerns. Both of those serve
functions of constitutional significance. We do not
make the same claim about -- about the general
government privilege for deliberative process.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you are saying
that you -- government lawyers cannot seek an
interlocutory appeal of any privilege claimed, other
than Presidential communications and State secrets?
MR. KNEEDLER: I don't want to rule out the
possibility that there could be a statutory privilege of
some -- of some particular sort --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, you could -- you
could seek an interlocutory appeal under 1292(b).
MR. KNEEDLER: That -- that would be -- that
would be available in an appropriate case. There are
the -- there are the limitations. We trust that a court
would -- would grant that, but these -- these are
interests of the highest order.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. There
are problems with 1292(b). Are you telling me, when
your office writes a letter to the Department of
Interior and says, Look, we are not going to appeal --
we will appeal your case, but we think you have got a
really bad case, you are likely to lose; and you
assert -- the only privilege you can assert is the
attorney-client privilege, and, if a district judge
says, that's not covered, for one reason or another,
you -- you don't get an interlocutory appeal?
MR. KNEEDLER: No. Not -- we don't get an
interlocutory appeal under -- under 1291. No. We are
not arguing for that -- for that position. And, for the
two particular privileges that -- that we have
identified in our -- in our brief, it is possible that
1292(b) certification would be granted by the -- by the
Court, but it is also possible that it would not.
And I -- I would like to -- I would like to
identify -- and I think Justice Sotomayor asked about --
about a test for importance, and the Court, in its
recent decision in Will, tried to summarize what -- what
it has been driving at over the last 15 years on this
importance prong and whether the importance outweighs
the -- the final judgment values.
And what the Court said there is that there
has -- that the denial of an immediate appeal has to
undermine -- let me -- let me quote -- "has to undermine
some particular value of high order."
And then the Court identified the things
that have fallen into that category. It mentioned
separation of powers. The Court mentioned disruption of
government operations through the denial of qualified
immunity, and I would add the denial of statutory
immunity under the Westfall Act to that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't think that
the attorney-client privileges rises to the level of who
gets to -- who has to put up security for costs that was
an issue in Cohen?
MR. KNEEDLER: We -- I think the -- I do
not. And I think the problem is that the denial of
attorney-client privilege is tied up with discovery of
the sort that happens every day in Federal Court. It's
bound up with -- with discovery plans, that --
objections on relevance, materiality, various -- various
privileges.
One of the important values served by the
final judgment rule is that the conduct of -- of
district court proceedings like that is committed to the
judgment and discretion of the district court, and if a
disappointed litigant could automatically run to the
court of appeals that undermines the ability of the
district court judge to manage the day-to-day --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We are not talking
about -- I guess what, perhaps, the case comes down to
is, if you think the attorney-client privilege is like
every other evidentiary privilege that you have just
listed, relevance, materiality, all those sorts of
things, or if you think the attorney-client privilege is
different, even more important than who has to post
security for costs, because it is central to the rule of
law, because it is central to how the adversary system
functions.
MR. KNEEDLER: I think the more precise
question, Mr. Chief Justice, is whether the -- the
question is whether the denial of an attorney-client
privilege threatens to -- so substantially undermine the
values of the privilege to warrant an immediate appeal,
and I think, as has been pointed out by several of the
Justices here, there are -- there are exceptions to the
privilege, which -- which will -- might undermine the
confidence people might have in it. There are
uncertainties at trial. These are often fact-based
determinations that would be subject to clearly
erroneous review on appeal. The very sorts of reasons
why issues like this are committed to the district
court's discretion and reviewed on final judgment when
you can find out whether the error actually made a
difference on a particular case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the review -- I
follow your answer but the review on final judgment is
meaningless. I mean, the cat is out of the bag.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it's not entirely
meaningless. It can -- if the evidence was used in the
trial and had -- had a substantial impact you can have a
reversal of the judgment, and -- and the -- the injury
can be mitigated by saying that the -- that the evidence
cannot be -- cannot be used in the retrial. That is
not --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The injury to the
party, but not the injury to the attorney-client
privilege.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, again, the -- the
question is -- the attorney/client privilege is not for
competence in its own right but to encourage frank
communications in order to promote litigation in the
function of lawyers. And the question is whether the
denial of a privilege in a particular case will so
undermine that privilege as a general matter to warrant
an immediate appeal. And we think the answer is clearly
no. And also the loss of the privilege to the
individual litigant we think is not a sufficient basis,
because the other cases that I mentioned, and that the
Court identified in Will are situations where the injury
transcends the particular case.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler, I think I
have this right, but correct me if I am wrong. I
thought in Cohen v. Beneficial, it wasn't just a
question that we would like to get this legal question
settled, but, in fact, for many plaintiffs if security
for costs was something that the Plaintiff has to put up
up front, that would be the end of the lawsuit. It
would be the practical end of the lawsuit. Unlike in an
attorney-client privilege, the suit goes on.
So Cohen v. Beneficial wasn't simply that
this was an important question unsettled under Erie, it
is the practical reality that plaintiffs who had to put
up security costs would be out of --
MR. KNEEDLER: That's -- that's a very
important -- that's a very important point. And I think
that --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, Mr. Kneedler, is true
that true, that the case goes on? Isn't it true that of
the civil cases that get through discovery, only a tiny
percentage ever come to an appealable final judgment?
The vast, vast majority of these things are settled, are
they not?
MR. KNEEDLER: They are. And I -- I -- I
think that supports the point for not having immediate
appealable --
JUSTICE ALITO: Right, because there never
could be an appeal.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, but the --
JUSTICE ALITO: It means that the
erroneous -- if there was an erroneous ruling, it's
built into the -- it's irretrievably built into -- well
not irretrievably, but powerfully built into the
bargaining --
MR. KNEEDLER: But that's the nature of
trial proceedings and discovery. Judges may make
erroneous rulings. And this Court, again, acknowledged
in Will that the purpose of the final judgment rule is
no to protect -- prevent particular injustices that
might happen in a particular case. Again, to go back to
what the Court has stressed, there has to be a -- a -- a
value, and the Court said constitutional or statutory or
something with a large public pedigree where the --
where the injury will -- will not be -- where the
weighing of the costs and benefits comes out quite
differently.
JUSTICE ALITO: If the privilege were in a
statute, that would make a difference?
MR. KNEEDLER: I don't think so if there was
a statute that just codified the -- the privileges like
this. What I -- what I -- what I was suggesting is
there might be a statute that would identify a
particular governmental interest as in the D.C.
Circuit's decision in the -- in the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Putting aside the
question of whether the attorney-client privilege has a
good pedigree in public law, my experience has been that
litigants on one side frequently request and demand in
discovery material that they know is covered by the
attorney-client privilege, one, precisely because that's
where the good stuff is; and two, because it gives them
leverage, because they know that the other side is going
to have to go through this impossible process and can't
get an immediate appeal.
Why isn't that a concern that we should
have?
MR. KNEEDLER: I think and that's a --
district judges are -- are -- who manage these cases
every day can see through that, and -- and -- and can be
trusted to, by and large, make correct results. It may
be that there will be an occasional erroneous
determination. But, again, as for privileges generally,
that's -- that's so.
I did want to make one final point about --
about irreparable injury. For the sorts of privileges
that we have identified in -- in our brief, the -- the
presidential communications privilege and whatnot,
that -- that harm is immediate and broad on behalf of
the nation as a whole. That is a different question
from the harm to a particular litigant when a privilege
is denied in a particular case and it doesn't undermine
the broader purposes of the privilege.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Kneedler.
Mr. Allen, you have four minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF RANDALL L. ALLEN
ON BEHALF THE PETITIONER
MR. ALLEN: I would like to address the
question that Justice Alito raised with regard to
whether or not an appeal of a collateral issue dealing
with waiver or privilege would stay the litigation. The
answer is it does not. The case remains with the
district court, the district court is empowered to
manage the case. Only the question addressing the issue
would go up with collateral order jurisdiction. Indeed,
in this case, the court did not stay the litigation
below. So, the court maintains that ability to manage
its own docket. To be sure --
JUSTICE STEVENS: It certainly doesn't go
ahead with the trial, does it?
MR. ALLEN: He has not gone ahead with the
trial.
JUSTICE STEVENS: It never would, would it?
MR. ALLEN: He is certainly empowered to do
so.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, just go ahead with
trial while a material issue is still pending, I can't
imagine that.
MR. ALLEN: Your Honor, the scenario that
you raise would put the attorney or the client,
depending on who is in the box, if you will, to some
hard choices. But there are two ways that the case
stays: Either the district court has to order that the
case stays or on appeal the court of appeals has to
order that the case stays. The parties and their
counsel cannot stay the case.
So, I agree with you that it could be a
difficult situation for the parties.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I can't imagine a judge
going to trial in a case when an important issue like
this is pending on appeal. Has that ever happened?
MR. ALLEN: I am unaware that it has -- it
has ever happened, Your Honor, and I hope it doesn't.
But the -- but point is that the district court
maintains that power and authority to run -- to run its
courtroom.
The United States cites Will for the
proposition that -- that the collateral order doctrine
is designed to impact some particular value of high
order, and it recites from Will a number of those
particular values of high order, including qualified
immunity. As this Court recognized in -- in Harlow,
a -- a doctrine of common law origin, much like the
attorney-client privilege, the -- the doctrine in
Harlow, qualified immunity is designed to impact and
affect the efficient operation of government.
The design of the attorney-client privilege
is intended to have the same impact on the efficient and
effective operation of the administration of justice.
If I could go back, Justice Breyer, to the
question that you raised with regard to other privilege.
I would suggest that a holding in this case in our favor
would have no impact on the Court's later determination
of privileges of husband, wife, spousal privileges, or
of priest and penitent type privileges. I would suggest
that the better course would be to examine a case that
develops the importance or the impact of those
privileges, but certainly with regard, for example, to
spousal immunity or spousal privilege, the way that the
States recognize them -- I believe that all 50 States
recognize spousal privilege -- is varied.
JUSTICE BREYER: So -- so, I think any
system of -- that denies you the interlocutory appeal,
will, in fact, work some injustice. I have no doubt
about that. Any system that allows too many
interlocutory appeals wrecks the judicial system through
delay.
Now, I think on that kind of question which
is here, maybe there is some information that you come
across with the ABA, for example, that has 300,000 --
maybe 600 -- you know, hundreds of thousands of members.
There might be instances in the circuits where appeal
was denied, where the lawyers would say, my goodness,
appeal was denied, I want to tell you the hardship that
that worked.
Has anyone gone around and tried to find if
there are such instances, as there must be, how serious
it was? How harmful, how often do we have any empirical
information on that question?
MR. ALLEN: Your Honor, I do not have any
empirical information to answer that question. But to
go to the -- to the -- to the underlying premise of
whether or not those other cases might generate some
flood gate, if you will, I think we have -- we have
answered to be clear with Respondent's description of
our counting. I don't think it is a statistical
analysis. We simply counted the actual appeals, 11.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is it wrong for me to
expect that if this would work, a lot of instances of
serious hardship not allowing the appeal, some lawyers
in their meetings would be upset and they would raise a
few examples? So doesn't the fact that you have been
unable to find any tend to count against you?
MR. ALLEN: I don't believe it does, Your
Honor, I don't believe that should count against us.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
38:4 27:24 38:20 10:25 11:3 aside 12:19 25:8
after-a-fact 33:3 40:10 41:4 19:9,15 26:5 asked 16:22
55:5 agree 15:24 17:24 19:18 45:14 52:5 44:7
16:20 17:2 Ah 6:7 15:15 17:13,15 appellate 16:10 Association
51:16,17,22 46:18 47:12 28:23 34:16 assumed 20:11
40:8 33:12 34:3 answers 4:8 application 14:8 attentive 37:13
6:8,16 7:5,19 11:12 12:1 applying 41:8 attorney-client
51:10 11:1,8,15,21 16:22,25 18:13 38:19 5:20,23 7:2 9:5
6:11 13:13,16 14:5 19:4 21:6 24:1 3:20 8:7 13:19,20 14:9
17:16 15:5,24 16:9 25:6,10 26:8 approach 22:4 14:13,22 15:11
53:5 16:17,23 17:2 26:10,24 30:2 24:2,3 15:20,22 17:5
25:18 52:13 54:11,25 43:18,23,25 areas 21:17 40:15 41:15,21
allow 10:25 11:2 44:14 46:5,12 arguably 11:13 41:25 42:3,8
allowing 26:4 50:5 51:6 52:5 arguing 19:20 45:4,18,21
53:21 appealability argument 1:12 52:25 53:3
alternatives 19:23 21:13 51:2 August 25:8
benefits 49:11 28:3,7 29:1,3,5 21:3 23:5,6,9 claimed 43:2
best 11:10 27:1630:1,3,4,14,18 53:14 class 15:14,17
24:5 bit 32:7 33:8 35:8,25 certified 37:2 clear 19:20
Blackburn 3:13 37:2,4,5 38:16 certify 9:17 41:20 54:16
33:4 36:3 boil 22:16 41:15 43:10,18 cetera 19:23 clearly 3:14
43:10 bound 45:6 43:19 45:17 check 26:5 22:14 32:3
30:2,6 cases 4:13 5:9
54:19 32:7 35:15 37:25
37:3 brief 18:18 22:87:23 11:24 37:19 38:13,22 client's 39:10
40:21 22:20 27:10 13:17,21 15:21 39:7 40:25 closed 33:13
53:6 38:23 42:15 15:21 16:2,6 41:6,17,23 cluster 26:24
48:25 built 48:23,23 27:1,1,7,23 choice 35:23 14:19,25 15:12
30:9,13 31:11 circuit 13:2 24:6 28:19
2:4,6,8,12 capture 17:8 50:9 54:14 30:3 33:4 36:17,24 39:21
23:22 41:3 care 37:23 case-in-chief 34:18 40:8 41:8 45:1
51:3 Carpenter 1:6 10:2 circuits 18:22 47:20 48:2
18:16,17 carve-ups 33:19 30:24 36:23 49:20 13:18 15:9
21:2 carving 15:10 44:18 circumstances 21:1,9,21,24
53:16 case 3:4 4:1,3,5 Catha 33:21 14:22 23:11 33:13 51:6,11
55:1 7:22 9:19,22 central 4:10 cites 52:18 52:19
14:19,25 14:24 15:19 25:18 45:23,24 48:11 come 11:10 18:6
16:1 19:6,7,13,18 century 3:11 claim 16:4,24 31:12,18 32:12
34:10,23 45:10 cooperates 36:6 35:16 37:3,8 12:6 51:6
39:13 conference 32:1 cooperating 40:18,22 41:7 dealt 15:12 19:5
48:12 34:24 37:10 41:7 42:15 death 31:1
confession 11:4 Coopers 30:25 43:11 44:5,8 decade 31:11
confidentiality correct 12:15,16 45:5,11,12,14 decided 18:23
confronted 47:19 50:11 51:12,13 52:4 10:10 16:19
39:5 32:1,2,17 15:14,18 31:19 52:17 13:24
46:13 34:24 39:23 38:11 44:25 courts 7:13 9:16 declared 14:19
35:13 33:19,20 48:5 49:11 27:12 33:5 defendant 4:1
Conn 1:17 23:13,19 40:25 11:24 13:21 53:23
42:17,18 consequence count 27:7 28:24 53:9 42:4,12,24
47:8 26:23 54:24 55:1 covered 43:22 demand 49:24
consequences counted 54:18 49:25 denial 41:14
16:11 course 10:21 crime 19:22 46:3 47:10
42:22 49:8 3:10,11,13 criteria 11:23 denying 21:20
33:11 contempt 35:18 8:20,25 9:2 Cunningham 1:20 43:16
context 4:16 14:1 15:7 16:1 41:4 52:2
41:24,25 19:5,7,10,12 deposition 28:6
20:21 contractual 31:7 24:8 25:7,24 day 45:5 50:10 description
27:18 31:15 26:3,5 31:6,9 day-to-day 39:9 54:16
28:17 33:16,25 34:1 deal 10:4 39:8 designed 9:8
25:13 40:13 draconian 36:11 embracing 22:19 29:18
50:13 49:2,25 dramatic 39:22 empiric 40:4 53:14 54:1
discretion 45:12 draw 22:8 empirical 28:20 examples 22:11
discretionary driving 44:10 empowered exception 6:20
discussed 24:7 30:21 encourage 6:13 14:18,18 21:3
22:13 13:21 21:18,20 31:14 39:22 8:25 23:9 46:7
49:14 21:25 38:10 D.C 1:8,20 ensuring 14:11 exclusion 23:14
17:12 44:19 34:18,20 49:19 entirely 46:20 existence 6:19
42:1 distinct 29:15 equally 11:12 22:10 34:14
50:20 30:22 E equate 15:22 existence-of
24:18 26:23 earlier 6:2 21:11 48:3 exists 12:25 28:2
district 8:13,17 earth 4:18 erosion 7:8,16 expenses 30:18
40:16 43:21 2:7 41:2 12:19 extend 9:21 23:2
51:9,9 52:4,15 53:5 ESQ 1:15,17,19 33:8 36:13
5:16 52:19,24,25 efficient 53:2,4 et 19:23 F
12:18 documents egregious 33:7 ethical 35:24 fact 3:22 7:1
16:20 eight 28:10 39:11 10:1 11:22
7:2 8:8 door 26:21 24:13 27:18 40:3 17:7 22:24
13:7 33:11,13,14,17 30:22 33:22 evidence 34:12 23:10 27:1
21:12 33:18,22 36:11 52:4 46:21,24 28:11 38:17
doors 28:23 element 4:11 evidentiary 47:22 53:20
26:3 double 16:4 22:23 25:13,20 31:15 54:23
30:12 Eleventh 13:2 45:19 factor 8:21 24:7
38:16 doubt 8:15 25:9 29:9 30:3 exact 38:15 factors 24:6
doubting 20:14 embeddedness examine 53:12 15:20 16:11
17:3,4 dozen 36:14 embrace 23:15 20:23 21:2,18 29:7,8
first 4:9 5:23 23:17 34:10 29:25 30:20 held 23:25
15:2 fit 24:4 17:24 33:15 39:10,13,15 highest 43:13
flood 54:15 G 52:11 36:8
14:1 21:15,17 23:12 24:25 41:18,21 40:8
31:20 foreclose 42:16 40:5 42:1,4 49:19 16:9,17,23
34:12 formation 38:7 Ginsburg 9:10 government's 20:2,7 22:12
45:5 formula 4:25 9:24 10:3 24:23 23:4 51:25
forth 40:22 15:24 16:6 43:12 55:1
14:4,8 Fourth 33:3 given 9:20 25:14 hurdle 32:8,13
15:3,8 framed 30:22 26:12 H husband 11:3
18:1 frank 6:13,21 gives 39:16 50:2 half 27:23 12:5 53:10
32:18 47:7 giving 4:2 Hallock 26:12 husband-wife
fraud 19:22 21:2 gloss 36:24 happen 19:2 10:23
39:23 21:3,7 22:18 go 9:1 15:14 39:2 49:6
44:12 free 3:19 13:6 18:8 28:3 30:5 happened 7:22 I
46:14,18 30:21 32:5 33:1 52:12,14 iceberg 27:15
49:4 freedom 30:11 35:18 40:18 happens 45:5 ideas 29:15
frequent 40:21 49:6 50:4 hard 12:7,9 52:3 identified 44:3
35:22 49:24 53:6 54:13 54:21 50:17
46:15 front 47:24 28:24 33:23 53:1 49:18
fully 29:25 37:18 48:1,10 harm 12:24 imagine 51:24
21:19 functioning 3:24 12:14 13:7 harmful 54:9 immediate 25:5
38:4 functions 42:22 18:6 19:8 Haven 1:17 44:14 46:5
increased 8:24 intensive 16:2 52:11 justice 1:20 3:3
21:13 7:16 interactions 22:16 29:5 4:11,20,24 5:3
41:22 individual 41:15 31:2 40:13 41:10,11 5:13,14,22 6:7
47:14 interest 3:16 46:13 6:11,12,18
24:15 Industries 1:3 17:20 19:24 9:24 10:3,15
31:12 3:4 31:7 49:19 J 10:17 11:2,11
52:23 information interests 7:17 Jackie 33:2 11:20 12:2,11
4:17,17 6:1 25:22 43:13 jail 35:18,24 12:17,23 13:9
53:1,4,9 13:8 17:2,9 interlocutorily jeopardy 16:4 14:10,15 15:6
21:13 53:25 13:12 30:12 15:10,24 16:6
33:20 9:12,15,25 18:23,24 19:12 17:17 18:3,15
6:9 11:23 initial 38:7 30:10,13 32:18 28:4 29:4,20 20:14 22:5,25
14:2,6,7 initially 31:24 33:24,24 34:3 29:24 35:25 23:5,17,19,23
injected 29:5 34:16 37:7 36:1,6,7 37:1 24:16,20 25:16
23:1 injection 29:6 43:2,8,23,25 37:12,14,16 26:17,25 27:20
29:2,16 injury 46:23 53:19,22 38:4 43:21 28:9 29:9 30:5
44:8,11 47:2,3,16 internal 32:23 45:15 52:10 31:17,23 32:7
53:13 49:10 50:16 interpersonal judges 26:22 33:6,12 34:3
6:10 9:18 injustices 49:5 interrupting 35:19 39:3 37:19 38:3,13
12:3,8,9 insight 39:21 40:20 40:9,16 49:2 38:21,22 39:7
17:4 insists 35:17 invite 40:8 50:9 39:15,18 40:11
23:14 instance 10:6 invocation 22:6 judgment 9:14 40:25 41:6,17
30:7 11:16,19,22 involve 15:19 9:19 12:18,19 41:23 42:25
39:6 14:6,12 15:6 involved 30:15 14:4,8,16 15:3 43:7,14 44:7
18:2 20:3 41:10 15:8 17:21 44:23 45:16
48:3,7 21:22 36:13 involving 28:12 18:1 25:11 46:2,17 47:2
52:11 37:1,7 38:5 30:17 42:18 36:16,21 38:7 47:18 48:9,18
27:9 22:18,21,21 50:16 41:13 44:12 50:24 51:5,15
54:3,8,20 issue 4:9 5:18,24 49:4 54:19 55:2
35:1 17:22 19:5 20:15 34:24 53:22 K
52:22 insufficient 29:10 32:25 jurisdiction 15:12,23,25
53:24 24:23 25:4,22 loss 47:13 measured 14:6 never 48:18
34:25 35:13,22 lot 40:5 54:20 32:20 Nevertheless
41:1,2,6,19 39:1,4 43:1 lower 7:13 5:17 33:19 new 1:17 29:5
43:4,9 47:9 54:4,21 meetings 54:22 news 27:4
45:2 legal 47:21 M members 54:2 Ninth 18:22
47:5 lessen 7:8 magistrate mental 23:13 26:19
48:6,9 letter 43:16 27:14 40:16 mentioned nontestifying
49:1 let's 3:25 8:9 maintaining 21:11 29:18 26:16
50:8,25 level 27:5 28:2 25:19 31:22 35:20 non-piecemeal
18:20 lie 36:18 major 30:15 minute 6:20 number 4:12
27:2 limit 5:25 6:4 majority 7:16 minutes 51:1 5:16 21:14
29:7,24 20:1 48:13 mistake 9:1,2 28:1 34:12
34:15 limitation 6:21 manage 45:15 mitigated 46:24 52:21
38:14 8:11 23:16 50:9 51:10,13 moderates 34:8 numbers 27:13
50:3 limitations mandamus 25:9 Mohawk 1:3 3:4
43:11 33:4,9 36:14 Monday 1:9 O
22:3 32:24 37:12 40:2 move 35:20 objections 45:7
39:14 manner 3:18 moved 24:9 obligated 18:10
51:2 listed 45:20 materiality 45:7 N 2:1,1 3:1 35:24
50:11 50:21 32:9 24:11 36:23 observance
25:19 litigation 5:9 matter 1:11 19:4 33:17 observation 8:3
30:23 10:12 24:10,11 37:25 47:11 nation 50:20 10:7
35:3 24:24 31:14 55:5 nature 36:11 observed 8:8
45:24 32:9 37:17 matters 27:20 49:1 19:10
52:24 47:8 51:7,12 mean 10:17 12:7 neat 30:24 obtain 10:6
13:10 27:13 30:23 meaningless 41:9 occasional 50:12
18:10 38:23 43:17 46:19,21 necessity 3:16 occur 39:22
26:1 looked 35:10 means 48:21 need 7:3 9:18 occurred 7:22
looking 27:5 meant 10:4 14:7 15:7,17 18:19
12:3,8 lose 26:2 43:19 measure 11:25 needed 32:16 October 1:9
24:20,21 losing 16:24 14:9 35:11 25:7
organizes 35:5 40:5 46:9 24:23 26:14 24:14
15:2,2 44:11 period 28:1 possible 44:3,5 private 24:21
32:15 overcome 7:17 permit 13:12 post 45:22 31:7 38:2
P 3:1 person 4:18 6:3 40:23 4:10 5:20,23
PAGE 2:2 persons 3:17 powerfully 8:23 9:6,22
parameters 24:4 1:16 2:4,12 3:8 powers 44:19 11:14 13:4,4,6
40:10 29:20 precise 46:1 17:19,23 18:1
19:12,12 28:8 pipeline 27:11 36:10 50:1 19:25 20:13,23
particular 14:24 27:11 28:2 precluded 28:7 20:25 21:15
29:2,3 43:6 18:20 24:10 predicate 34:17 24:1,3,21,24
47:10,17 49:5 Plaintiff 47:23 predictability 26:10 28:5
50:22 52:20,22 48:4 prejudice 22:23 34:14,19 35:17
41:2 parties 52:6,9 plays 6:10 14:10 presence 25:3 40:22 41:15,21
20:19 11:18,19 16:23 plea 40:9 presented 17:7 42:5,9,12,17
24:12 47:3 please 3:10 20:4 22:3 42:21,24 43:2
29:6 pass 20:20 23:24 41:7 President 42:18 43:5,20,21
34:1 patient 10:24 point 7:7 8:15 presidential 45:4,18,19,21
11:6 12:6 14:1 16:10 42:16 43:3 46:4,5,8 47:4,6
43:13 pedigree 49:9,23 22:24 30:25 50:18 47:10,11,13
47:8 Pelletier 19:6 32:21 48:7,16 pretending 9:19 48:1 49:13,22
52:4,6 pendency 30:4 50:15 52:15 prevent 49:5 50:1,18,21,23
30:20 pointed 46:6 previously 51:7 52:25
21:12,20 people 7:2,6 posited 5:14 12:4 53:11 37:22
12:10 25:25 positing 7:11 priest-penitent privileges 11:9
17:12,23 28:6 32:24 27:6 28:4,5,21 2:10 51:2 repeatedly
34:25 35:1 29:21 30:8,16 recipe 6:6 33:16 38:8
31:16 37:14,19,20 31:19 34:11,15recited 21:2 41:8
44:2,24 provide 3:18 34:16,17 37:3 recites 52:21 repetitious
49:16 5:10 32:18 39:9 46:2,3 recognition 40:21
53:10 provides 32:19 47:6,9,21,21 35:16 reply 22:8
providing 35:3 48:3 49:22 recognize 53:16 reports 27:17
36:3 53:7,24 54:10 recognized 3:12 38:25
psychiatrist questioning Redman 33:2 13:11
12:6 questions 16:15refer 10:1 requests 40:6
45:11 19:24 49:9,23 quickly 18:2 51:5 53:7,14 requirement
pure 14:21 quite 14:22 regime 28:10 41:9,13
50:4 49:4 quoted 19:12 reiterated 36:1 39:24
put 15:13 37:11 R 3:1 28:6 37:2,14 reserved 28:4
37:14 44:25 raise 52:1 54:22 relationship 29:20
puts 34:7 53:7 relationships 23:20,21,23
21:4 RANDALL 1:15 45:20 28:17 29:12
44:11 Q 2:3,11 3:7 51:2 reluctant 9:21 30:15 31:21
31:12 44:20 reaches 20:21 remaining 51:1 36:9,19 38:1
qualities 30:22 reality 48:4 34:13 51:8 39:17,20 40:14
5:8 6:9 7:25 28:15 30:8 remedial 24:6 responded
39:10 9:17 10:18 33:24 43:19 32:22 32:17,22 36:10
11:14 14:19,21 reason 19:17 remedies 26:6 Respondent
37:24 17:15,18 18:5 reasons 13:3 12:24 23:22 41:5
24:14,25 27:6 REBUTTAL 28:12 54:16
46:12,17 routes 32:22 says 4:1,3,24 separation Solicitor 1:19
33:10 12:20 31:1,1 44:19 sorry 12:12
7:21 43:17,22 40:21 sort 6:21 21:17
7:18 9:4 14:8 4:20,24 5:3,14 35:1 sorting 28:23
23:7,9,12,14 scope 19:22 set 5:16 24:11 7:10 12:11,17
25:19 26:9 search 9:4 sets 12:19 13:25 14:5
6:18 9:11 34:5,7,8,11,18 32:25 47:22 48:13 30:5 39:15,18
16:7,7 34:20,25 36:17 Secondly 8:13 Seventh 19:13 44:7
36:21 38:7,12 secrecy 3:14 severability Sotomayor's
23:10 39:14,23 40:1 secret 4:2,21,25 29:3 17:17
25:6 41:13 43:4 5:8,11,15,21 shape 24:10 speak 24:25
27:5,21 45:10,23 49:4 10:20,20 31:2 34:25 spousal 53:10,15
31:3 rulemaking secrets 3:25 5:2 short 39:12 53:15,17
34:19 32:18 5:7 6:4 25:1 side 24:6 37:22 spouse 26:15
36:18 rules 7:4 9:7 26:11,14 42:20 39:5 49:24 standard 4:16
47:7,19 20:11 34:12 43:3 50:3 standing 40:1
ruling 10:13 sector 42:6 sides 25:5 38:20 start 4:9
34:19 48:22 15:14,17 30:17 significant 7:17 24:25 30:17,23
23:19 run 36:16 45:13 see 4:19 6:3 12:7 similar 8:2 states 1:1,12,21
25:16 52:16,16 12:9 30:6 37:8 42:21 2:8 3:14 41:3
32:7 run-of-the-mill 50:10 simply 8:25 48:2 52:18 53:16,16
37:19 37:9 seeing 5:25 54:18 statistical 54:17
39:7 seek 37:12 43:1 single 25:23 statistics 27:22
41:17,23 S 43:8 situation 11:13 statute 49:14,16
43:14 S 1:19 2:1,7 3:1 seeking 16:21 15:12 52:9 49:18
43:5 suggestion 36:2 44:8 threshold 20:20 turns 34:17
49:8 suggests 40:4 testify 33:2 22:14 twice 30:3
48:1 Thank 23:19,23 till 36:25 39:24 26:7 27:11
2:9 41:5 thing 4:20 5:15 33:22 typical 29:17
17:1 supposed 36:15 things 8:1,3 tiny 48:11
51:15,19 36:16 35:20 42:5 tip 27:15 U
52:10 Supreme 1:1,12 44:17 45:21 today 31:19 ultimate 10:11
51:14 7:7,19,24 8:2 trade 3:25 4:2 36:21
38:2,3 45:24 17:5,6,14,22 traditionally 39:20 54:13
15:21 18:13,16 43:18 44:7,23 27:5,13 28:2 undermines
19:16 27:3 46:1,6 47:12 33:2 38:4 39:6 underpinnings
33:17 48:16 49:15 46:10,22 49:2 understand
46:22 talk 8:9 12:3 54:15,17 52:11 24:22 25:3
46:4 8:22 14:17 Third 18:21,24 54:7 understanding
47:14 27:16 54:5 28:9 33:1 trip 26:4 unduly 16:12
15:7,9 tend 35:21 54:24 thought 31:4 true 10:22 48:9 2:8 41:3 52:18
28:18 terms 13:15 thousands 40:17 trust 43:11 upholding 27:18
24:6 28:2 54:2 trusted 50:11 Upjohn 7:25 8:1
37:23 three 4:15 13:23 trying 7:11 urge 42:15
13:4,5 29:6,7 32:12 words 5:11 1292(b) 9:16,20
51:7 23:10,12,14 31:22 32:3,6
14:19,25 37:12 39:10,13 worked 54:6 15 41:7 44:10
16:1 43:4 50:15 working 35:13 1888 3:13
19:6 54:5 workings 34:23 1949 30:17
36:17 wanted 34:10 38:2 1958 32:3
48:2 wanting 20:1 world 6:3 1978 30:25
44:16 1:20 39:9 2
52:20 wasn't 8:15 wouldn't 20:6 2006 31:9
45:9 watch 40:20 wrecks 53:22 2008 25:9
52:22 watching 37:6 write 27:13 2009 1:9
31:18 35:5,15 wrong 29:10 33:25 34:8
38:24 32:1
41:14 Westfall 44:22 Y 4
41:7 5
25:18 36:4
5 1:9
1 502(a) 35:3
18:12 104 27:25
11 18:23,25 27:1 6
windows 40:2 54:18 60 24:8 30:24
15:21 witness 28:14
20:1,4 12:06 55:4
