IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD :
COMPANY, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-604
BROTHERHOOD OF :
LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEERS AND :
TRAINMEN GENERAL :
COMMITTEE OF ADJUSTMENT, :
CENTRAL REGION. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, October 7, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 12:59 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
J. SCOTT BALLENGER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
THOMAS H. GEOGHEGAN, ESQ., Chicago, Ill.; on behalf
of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
J. SCOTT BALLENGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
THOMAS H. GEOGHEGAN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
J. SCOTT BALLENGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 55
P R O C E E D I N G S
(12:59 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 08-604, Union Pacific Railroad v.
The Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen.
Mr. Ballenger.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF J. SCOTT BALLENGER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BALLENGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
Section 3 First (q) of the Railway Labor Act
says that the findings in an order of the division shall
be conclusive on the parties, except that the order of
the division may be set aside for one of three specified
reasons. As a matter of plain dictionary meaning in
this context, "except" means that there are three and
only three exceptions to the otherwise conclusive nature
of these awards.
In the Sheehan case, this Court explains
that the dispositive question is whether the parties'
objections falls within one of the three reasons
specified within the statute. This Court explained that
the statutory language means just what it says and that
a contrary conclusion would ignore the terms,
purposes --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, the circuit
court did things in an unusual order. Instead of
reaching the statutory question, it reached the
constitutional question, in par, because it viewed the
two as intertwined.
Why isn't its judgment that there's a
statutory violation what's at issue before us, because
that's what they said?
MR. BALLENGER: Well, Your Honor, it
certainly would be this Court's prerogative and
appropriate for this Court to choose to reach the
statutory ground first, but we think that the
Respondents have no viable claim under the statute, and
so then --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why not?
MR. BALLENGER: Their only claim under the
statute is under the second statutory ground of review
for an award that fails to confine or conform itself to
the board's jurisdiction. An arbitrator's
jurisdiction --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. It's an award that
is contrary to the act.
MR. BALLENGER: But, Your Honor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the --
MR. BALLENGER: They -- they have never made
that argument, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I saw it in their
brief to the Ninth Circuit. The Ninth Circuit analyzed
the requirements of the act and of circular one and said
the board's ruling is not based on those.
MR. BALLENGER: Your Honor, on -- on page 5
of their brief to the Seventh Circuit, they waived any
argument based on that first statutory ground of review.
There was a first count in their petition for review
that was based on that statutory ground, and on page 5
they renounced it.
The only --
JUSTICE BREYER: It's the same argument --
it's the same argument, as if you had an APA case, and
the words in the APA are "arbitrary, capricious, abuse
of discretion," so somebody who has an unfair procedure
says it violates those words.
MR. BALLENGER: Well, if --
JUSTICE BREYER: And I don't really see that
it's any different, except we normally go to those words
before we would decide a due process question. It's the
similar kind of question. Why wouldn't we do the same
thing here?
MR. BALLENGER: Your Honor, I think that
there is an important difference. The first ground of
review under the act provides review for violations of
the plain terms of the RLA itself. The second ground is
for an act in excess of jurisdiction, which the lower
courts have correctly understood to be a reference to
this Court's Steelworker trilogy standard of review for
labor arbitration generally. An arbitrator's
jurisdiction is to interpret and to apply the parties'
agreement and the relevant arbitral rules. An
arbitrator exceeds his jurisdiction if but only if,
under this Court's well-settled case law, his decision
isn't even arguably construing or applying the relevant
principles, and this decision clearly satisfies that
standard, Your Honor.
I would urge the Court to look at the
board's decision in this case, and one of the five
appears at pages 65 -- 65a to 72a of the petition
appendix. The relevant reasoning starts on 68a to 71a.
The award contain five pages of careful reasoning by the
board. The board says that, quote: "We carefully
studied the arbitral and judicial precedents cited by
both parties in support of their respective positions";
and that "An evidentiary process after the appeal to
this board would have been contrary to the procedural
requirements contained in circular 1, as well as the
weight of arbitral precedents supporting the carrier's
position."
Well, what are those requirements? Section
301.2(b) of circular 1 expressly says that, quote: "No
petition shall be considered by any division of the
board unless the subject matter has been handled in
accordance with the provisions of the Railway Labor
Act," which includes the statutory requirement that a
conference must have occurred. The board has reasonably
understood that --
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask, just to be --
do you -- do you contest the question of whether there
was conferencing?
MR. BALLENGER: It's a complex question,
Your Honor. In the arbitration, Union Pacific went --
when this issue came up, Union Pacific went back to its
records and determined that it had proof in its own
records that two of the five cases had been conferenced.
And so we essentially conceded that point in the
arbitration.
JUSTICE STEVENS: You conceded that there
was conferencing?
MR. BALLENGER: We didn't contest that point
in the arbitration. Of course, the arbitrators
correctly determined that it was irrelevant.
As to the other three, the -- Union Pacific
did not have in its files the paperwork that it would
expect to see there if conferences occurred. So --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm not sure that answers
my question.
MR. BALLENGER: Well, we took the position
in the arbitration that we don't know for sure whether
conferencing occurred and that it's Respondent's burden
to prove it, and that the proof that they proffered in
the arbitration was not convincing and sufficient to
satisfy their burden. We think that constitutes
contesting the issue in an ordinary legal sense.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you didn't contest it
in two. Two cases, you concede that there was in fact a
conference.
MR. BALLENGER: In two cases, that appears
to be correct, Justice Ginsburg. But, of course, the
board properly determined within its discretion that
that fact is not relevant because the board enforced its
procedural rule that the evidence of conferencing --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but the board can
make rules of procedure. It can't make rules of
jurisdiction. The dismissal of all these petitions was
for want of jurisdiction.
Now, if the board has no authority to set
its jurisdiction -- and I think that's plain; Congress
has that authority, not the board -- then it is required
to exercise the jurisdiction that Congress gave it. So
why isn't that the very first question that this Court
should deal with?
The board threw these cases out for want of
jurisdiction. Whatever the failing was, it was not and
could not be jurisdictional because the board has no
authority to describe its own jurisdiction.
MR. BALLENGER: But Your Honor, the
board was -- I think the board is entitled to mean
different things by the word "jurisdiction" than perhaps
an Article 3 court would mean. This Court often means
many different things when it uses that word.
What the board held was that the -- under
the language of circular 1 and the weight of arbitral
precedent the board cannot consider information that is
not included in the parties' initial submissions. The
board has understood for a very long time, consistent
with the language of circular 1, like Section 301.2(a),
that it is an appellate body that makes decisions on the
basis of a record that is before it, that was organized
on property and presented by the parties in their
initial submissions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you say this is just a
mistaken use of words, rather than -- than the board
saying, under our rules, we don't have power to handle
this?
MR. BALLENGER: The substance -- I think it
can -- you can get tied up in the word "jurisdiction" in
a way that makes it more confusing than it needs to be.
What the board held was that the confluence
of the procedural rules, specific procedural rules, in
circular 1 established two propositions: First, that
the board cannot consider a matter unless conferencing
in fact occurred; and second, that the only evidence
that the board is ever allowed to look at under its own
procedural rules is the evidence that is in the initial
submissions. If you put --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you -- do you dispute
what your opponent tells us, that some panels of the
board, even when there has been no conference, let alone
no proof of a conference, but some panels have stayed
proceedings to allow the conference to occur, and then
the board will pick up?
MR. BALLENGER: That -- we don't contest
that, Justice Ginsburg. But, of course, this isn't
ordinary agency adjudication of the sort conducted under
the APA, where the board has to stand behind as an
entity every decision that is made by any panel.
This is a peculiar sort of agency-supervised
arbitration, and it's perfectly appropriate in this
context for two simultaneous panels of the board to
reach different interpretations of the same language.
And a Court really --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's true generally,
but if the board believes that as a matter of law it
can't hear this dispute and consider normal grounds for
excusing a failure to include something in the record
because, in its own language, we can't do it, the law
doesn't permit us to do it, we have no jurisdiction to
consider matters outside the record, we don't apply
normal rules of waiver or forfeiture or any of the other
rules that attend themselves to a failure of a party to
immediately raise a defense like you could have done and
waited two and a half years to do, doesn't that suggest
that the board is not reaching -- merely resting its
decision on a merely procedural rule, it's resting its
decision on its erroneous view that the law deprives it
of jurisdiction to hear the case?
MR. BALLENGER: I don't believe so, Your
Honor. First of all, this Court squarely rejected in
the Sheehan case itself the suggestion that there is
independent judicial review just because a question of
law is at stake. That was the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, but that -- this is
not merely a question of law. This is a question of
jurisdiction: Is it entitled to hear a dispute by law?
MR. BALLENGER: There is no question, no one
has ever disputed in this case, that the board was
entitled to hear this matter.
For instance, the question of arbitral
jurisdiction, no one has ever disputed that this Court
-- that this dispute was properly before the board. The
board resolved it. The board simply resolved it on
procedural grounds. And the explanation that it gave
was that considering material outside of the initial
submissions would be contrary to circular 1 and to the
weight of arbitral precedent directly on the point.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I am looking at the
decision and they are all identical in this respect.
The board said it has no jurisdiction to consider any of
the remaining procedural or substantive issues
associated with this claim.
"No jurisdiction," that sounds like they are
saying: We have no authority to consider anything about
this case; we must toss it out because there is no proof
of the conference.
MR. BALLENGER: Again, Your Honor, I think
the important point is that the board is not required to
use the word "jurisdiction" in precisely this sense.
There is no question that the board has jurisdiction
over this dispute. It is a minor grievance under the
Railway Labor Act within the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Don't you think there is
a big difference between the adjudicator saying: I
could, but I choose not to because there is no reason
for your failure, from: I won't because I can't.
MR. BALLENGER: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Those are -- those are
two very different concepts.
MR. BALLENGER: They're -- they certainly
are in an Article 3 court, Your Honor. But this Court
has said many, many times that the word "jurisdiction"
is a word of many meanings, too many meanings.
JUSTICE BREYER: Can you -- could you go
back for a minute? I mean, this reads as if it's very
complicated, but for me, I read the AFL-CIO brief and
that's what I am thinking of and it seems this is not
such a hard case. Basically, there is a statute filled
with words of procedure, and it isn't too difficult to
interpret that statute as meaning that the board should
have fair procedure, not unfair procedure.
Now, if you are willing to make that giant
step, the remaining issue in the case is whether the
procedure here was fair or unfair. And the Seventh
Circuit is filled with pages of opinion that explains
why it was unfair. And the reason basically it was
unfair is because no one in his right mind previous to
this case would have thought that you should fill up
your brief with a lot of facts that nobody's going to
contest. And after this case, the board said: By the
way, you have to put in a whole lot of jurisdictional
facts even if nobody is going to contest them, and since
you didn't do it, you are out, and we won't even give
you a chance to do it now.
Okay? So I read that. I thought, is there
something wrong with that? And then I thought I'd ask
you, because you would know.
(Laughter.)
MR. BALLENGER: I think that there are
several things wrong with it, Your Honor, starting from
the premise that the statute guarantees in all instances
procedures that are, quote unquote, "fair" in an
untethered sense.
This statute guarantees specific procedural
rights, which if you put them together do guarantee fair
procedures. But it doesn't guarantee fairness in the
abstract. So what you have to look at are whether the
specific procedures that are guaranteed by the statute
were complied with, and they were.
Now, taking a step back, even if we are
going to talk about what is fair and unfair, there is
absolutely nothing unfair about what happened here. As
the board explained, referencing its own prior
precedents and the plain language of the regulations
that are governing, the Respondents clearly were on
notice that they had to do this.
Several prior decisions of the board had
dismissed grievances for precisely the reason that there
was no evidence of conferencing in the on-property
record. That is if you look at page 40 of the joint
appendix 18679 from the first --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Are there any -- is there
any rule describing how one has to get this into the
record? It's just-- how -- what would have been the
proper way to prove that conferencing occurred?
MR. BALLENGER: As the board has explained
in prior cases, the ordinary method of proving that
conferencing occurred is that the last exchange of
correspondence on the property between the carrier and
the union, references the conference that had occurred
and what happened. And then both parties or -- or
the -- the union use that exchange of correspondence
to -- in their initial submissions to the board pursuant
to section 301.2(a), which requires, consistent with the
text of the statute itself, that every submission of the
board will include, quote, "A full statement of the
facts and all supporting data bearing on the dispute."
JUSTICE STEVENS: But that doesn't refer to
conferencing, does it?
MR. BALLENGER: A full statement of -- of
all of the facts and supporting data, which includes
conferencing. Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Implicitly includes con --
not expressly includes conferencing.
MR. BALLENGER: Well, that's how the board
has understood it, and, of course, the board is entitled
as an arbitral body to interpret its own rules.
JUSTICE STEVENS: I see.
MR. BALLENGER: Within the enormous
discretion that this Court has established in the
Steelworkers trilogy standard of review, which is that
as long as the arbitrator is even arguably construing or
applying the appropriate principles, his decision has to
stand. There is no real question, I think, if you look
at the five pages of careful reasoning and the expressed
text of Circular 1 here that this -- this is an
exemplary arbitral award. The arbitrators were careful,
they were construing and applying the relevant
principles. And this Court has said --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it's going against
another panel that says, not only you don't have to have
the proof, even if you didn't have the conference we are
not going to throw you out.
Now, there is different panels, but it is
the same board. Why shouldn't the grievants here say,
we don't understand this? It's conceded there was a
conference, at least in two of the cases. Our buddies
didn't even have a conference and this same board, a
different panel, allowed them to cure it. And I can't
cure it now. That is the height of arbitrary behavior
by the board, it seems to me.
MR. BALLENGER: Your Honor, exactly the same
thing happens to litigants in courts all of the time.
Three identically situated litigants go to three
different trial courts in the same State with identical
claims under the same statute and they present those
claims and they get three different answers from the
State trial courts. That is not a violation of due
process. Sometimes --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm not -- I'm not
talking about due process. I'm talking about conformity
with the act, the act's requirement. I --
MR. BALLENGER: Your Honor, it is a feature
of the Railway Labor Act scheme that different -- each
panel of the board is its own discreet interpretive
universe and is to be judged by the Federal courts
according to the standards set up in the statute. It
will happen that boards -- that panels disagree about
the proper resolution of an issue. That's happened --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So does the board as a
whole apparently, because I am looking at the
instruction about joint exhibits and it tells the
parties, when you are going to make a submission don't
include unnecessary documents, and among things don't
include things that aren't in dispute --
MR. BALLENGER: Three things about --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- like letters
requesting conferences.
MR. BALLENGER: Three things about that,
Your Honor. First of all, that instruction sheet
doesn't apply here at all. It applies only when the
parties get together beforehand and agree to file a
joint -- a joint submission to the board, so that they
really have talked about what is in dispute and what
isn't. It wasn't even promulgated until after the
submissions in this case were made.
And it's not clear how the board is going to
understand that language. It doesn't say that the
parties can omit evidence of conferencing. It says they
can omit, if they don't dispute it, letters requesting a
conference.
JUSTICE BREYER: It must be what they think
of as an interpretation of the rule and the statute that
they already had promulgated. The rule and the statutes
say, the rule says you have to include all known
relevant argumentative facts. So if the circular says
we mean it, we mean the facts that people are having an
argument about.
And then the statute says, a full statement
of the facts bearing upon the dispute. And the circular
and then this document say we mean a full statement of
facts that somebody might think have something to do
with an argument that people are having.
And, so, only after this case did the board
say, oh, no, you have to include some disputes that
nobody is disputing, some facts that nobody has ever
disputed or seems to.
Now, what's -- what's the response to that?
MR. BALLENGER: Again, Your Honor, there is
nothing unique or new about what the board did here.
The board has done this before.
Now, as to the circular, it remains --
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm right in `stating what
they did? Is my statement of what they did, which was
meant to be as pejorative as I could possibly make it --
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and you are going to
say, that's right, that's the correct statement of what
happened?
MR. BALLENGER: No, I'm -- I'm disagreeing
with the -- the characterization that this is the board
saying, we're going to make up a new rule that we've
never applied before. That's not what happened here.
The board said that the weight of arbitral precedence
supports the carrier's position.
Now, as to the -- the instruction sheet, it
remains to be seen how the board is going to interpret
that. And in an appropriate case, a court, if they
interpret it in a manner that was wholly arbitrary and
without reason and would violate the Steelworkers
trilogy arbitral standard of review, then of --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then the board is telling
people, I will go back a sentence: "Representatives may
wish to omit documents that are unimportant and/or
irrelevant to the disposition of the dispute."
I mean that -- that seems to me is trapping
people, if the board says, please don't dump on us
unnecessary paper.
MR. BALLENGER: Your Honor, no one in this
case could have legitimately relied on that instruction
sheet, whatever it means. And the -- the board has not
yet construed what it's going to mean. But it doesn't
by its own terms apply here, because a joint submission
was not made.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then if -- then a person
following this is obliged not to pay heed to this advice
because if you don't put in every document, if you don't
put in enough evidence of conferencing, you are going to
be out and never have your grievance heard.
MR. BALLENGER: Your Honor, in an
appropriate case, if a board panel interpreted that
language in -- in a manner that would be inconsistent
with something that that panel then did, then there
might be an inherent conflict that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do I understand you to say
that that provision was not applicable here anyway?
MR. BALLENGER: It's not applicable at all,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does the other side contest
that?
MR. BALLENGER: Not that I am aware of.
It -- it only applies in the case of joint submissions,
and it was not promulgated until after the submissions
here were filed. So no one could legitimately rely on
that instruction sheet.
And in any event --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They are not relying on
it as applicable in this case. They are relying on it
as the board's indication that it's sound to tell the
parties, don't dump on us unnecessary paper.
MR. BALLENGER: Well, the board obviously
does not consider evidence of conferencing unnecessary,
Your Honor. It has held for a very long time, going
back, I think, 40 years to Award 18679 at least, that
evidence of conferencing is essential to the board's
consideration of any dispute under the terms of the
statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Some panels of the board.
Other panels think this is an eminently curable defect.
MR. BALLENGER: That's right, Your Honor.
But an arbitral decision does not violate the
Steelworkers standard of review simply because other
arbitrators disagree.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's a decision on the
merits. Here we are talking about a threshold barrier
to even get your case heard. And that is being decided
differently by different panels.
MR. BALLENGER: Your Honor, this Court has
made clear that issues of procedural arbitrability,
threshold conditions to arbitration, are governed by the
same standard as merits issues in arbitration. In the
Misco case, for instance, there was a question of
evidence, and the arbitrator refused to consider certain
kinds of evidence. And this Court said questions of
procedure are for the arbitrator.
In John Wiley v. Livingston, which is in
many ways very similar to this case, it involved a
procedural precondition to arbitration that the parties
have to meet in conference prior to beginning the
arbitration. And the question in John Wiley & Sons, was
whether that precondition of conferencing should be
waived on the grounds that on the facts of that case it
would be futile. And the party -- one party tried to
get a court to intervene on that question, because it
could have precluded the arbitration entirely. And the
Court said that procedural questions arising out of the
arbitration and bearing on its disposition are for the
arbitrator, not for a court.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question.
I may have an incorrect impression about it. Is the --
the thing that's at issue is whether or not conferencing
occurred. Is it also important to know what happened at
the conferencing? You may not know this. Is the -- is
there some sort of -- of factual description of the
negotiations that took place during conferencing an
important part of the submission?
MR. BALLENGER: Not ordinarily, Justice
Stevens.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So the only -- the only
importance is to just to establish the fact that there
was a conference?
MR. BALLENGER: It was very important to the
congressional plan and so it's written into the statute
that the parties make one last effort to settle these
grievances before it comes to the board. That is a
precondition of the board's consideration of any
grievance.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And in two cases you
concede that that condition was met, that there was a
conference?
MR. BALLENGER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So we are not even
talking about a conference requirement. We are talking
about a pleading rule, how you plead. Everybody
concedes that the conference occurred in two cases.
MR. BALLENGER: Your Honor --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's how you plead that.
MR. BALLENGER: Yes, Your Honor. Every
adjudicative body has to be able to enforce its
procedural rules. And the board has a procedural --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can -- can we -- I'm
sorry.
Let's assume that in a published opinion
there are two procedural defaults. One, the union does;
the other, the railroad does. The board says, you know,
I am resolving this dispute. I'm not forgiving the
union's procedural default, but I will forgive the
railroad's procedural default, because they're an
important lifeline business for America and we've got to
make sure that they're protected at all costs, and union
members are just not important enough to that scheme.
MR. BALLENGER: Your Honor, in that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In your theory, there is
no due process violation in that case? They have heard
the arguments, they have given you a full opportunity to
make your point about the procedural default. They are
announcing a new rule. It's okay. So what's wrong with
that?
MR. BALLENGER: That case would be
reviewable, Your Honor, and properly so under the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under what theory?
MR. BALLENGER: -- statutory ground of
review for exceeding jurisdiction.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why?
MR. BALLENGER: Because in that case the
arbitrator is not even arguably construing or applying
the rules; he is dispensing his own brand of industrial
justice, as this Court said in the Enterprise Wheel and
Car case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, point me to any
rule, that --- you know, anybody could point to a rule
and says it commands a result. They -- there are rules
here that say disputes should be submitted to the board
and resolved. And they are resolving the dispute, the
dispute, and they are saying, you have defaulted, you
didn't.
MR. BALLENGER: But every -- every
adjudicative body has to have the ability to set and
enforce procedural rules governing its procedures.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they can do that.
That's what -- that's what the circuit said.
MR. BALLENGER: In the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They could have passed a
rule that told people, warned them, and said this is a
procedural rule we are going to apply.
MR. BALLENGER: Well, they did, Your Honor.
They have Sections 301.2(a) and (b), which if you put
them together give at least fair warning of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: At what point does the
interpretation of rules that don't command a result
become improper, outside the board's jurisdiction?
According to you, never.
MR. BALLENGER: Under the -- under the
Steelworkers standard of review for arbitral decisions,
there will be a point at which the board's
interpretation isn't even arguably grounded in -- in the
rules, and it will be reviewable. As a matter of
constitutional due process, which is what we are here
talking about today, there probably is no point outside
of the substantive interpretation of a criminal statute
where that kind of interstitial gap-filling or
interpretation could be unfair. It happens to litigants
all of the time that they come to a court and are
surprised by how a court resolves a disputed procedural
question.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Geoghegan.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: "GAE-gunn," actually.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: "GAE-gunn."
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS H. GEOGHEGAN
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Good afternoon, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
The first and most important thing that the
Respondent would like to stress is that we are not here
reviewing an arbitrator's interpretation of the contract
or here under the review standards set by Steelworkers
trilogy. We never received an interpretation of the
contract, and by that I mean the contract in any
aspect -- procedural rules of the contract, substantive
rules of the contract. No contract interpretation for
these five engineers. And the reason that the
Respondent urged both a statutory and due process
violation is that without any interpretation of the
contract, these five cases were dismissed invoking
Circular 1, Code of Federal Regulations, as the basis,
and denying these five engineers any determination of
their contract claims.
They never got to what the Railway Labor Act
with its mandatory arbitration procedure promised the
engineers and the carriers: a resolution of their
contract claims for the purpose of industrial peace.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it didn't -- it didn't
promise them that categorically. There were certain
things they had to do, right? One of which was to have
conferencing, and in three of these cases they didn't.
So that promise didn't extend at least to those three
cases. And in the other two, where there was
conferencing, the act also provides, as any sensible act
would have to, for the adoption of procedural rules.
And the procedural rule here, according to the
arbitrator, required the submission of that evidence
of -- of consultation with the complaint, which didn't
happen.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Your Honor, I respectfully
disagree. These cases -- the panel never said that the
three cases were not conferenced. Union Pacific has not
said that these three cases were not conferenced. The
panel said that, no matter how convincing the evidence
that these other three cases were conferenced, that all
five cases were conferenced, it would not consider that
evidence because it was not attached to the original
submission.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do -- do you say that all
five were -- were conferenced? Is that your position?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Oh, absolutely. We have
correspondence --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But we have rules
like that -- we have rules like that all the time. No
matter how clear it is what happened below, if it wasn't
included in the question presented, we say you can't
raise it. This is just a rule like that.
They have a rule saying this is what you
have to do, you have got to put the evidence of
conferencing in -- in the record at a particular time.
You didn't do it, so we are not going to -- the fact
that on the facts, on the real facts, it occurred is not
an adequate challenge to the procedural rule.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Your Honor, that would be
true if there was a rule that required these documents
to be attached to the original submission. There is no
such rule. 301 --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You think there is
now? In other words, this is -- rulemaking by
adjudication is not unheard of.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Rulemaking by adjudication
is not unheard of, Your Honor. But this is not
rulemaking by adjudication because this particular
panel, which is an arbitration panel, a division, it's
five members, it's a division of the adjustment board,
has no power to make rules. Congress in section (v) of
Section 153 of the act delegated the rulemaking power
under this act on a one-time basis. In fact, it put in
the dates. It had to start in June 1934 and be done in
19 -- October 1934. That is the only power that this
34-member adjustment board has to make rules.
A panel has no power delegated to it by the
Congress under this act, and the act is very specific,
because Congress --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is it -- is --
where is the rule that there has to be conferencing?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: The rule -- there is no rule
that there has to be conferencing. There --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think -- you
think that was where the board erred, in requiring
conferencing?
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's in the statute, isn't
it?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: It is in Section 152, which
is not a statute, by the way, that the NRAB administers.
We are not disputing that we have to prove
conferencing. We're happy to prove it. We have
evidence of conferencing.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's -- can
the board adopt procedures about how you go about
proving conferencing? You say there is no rule because
there wasn't a rule adopted in 1934. There is a rule
that there has to be conferencing. Does that mean that
at any point in time you can just pop up and say, oh, by
the way, there was conferencing? Or can the board say,
this is how you go about establishing it?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: We believe that, given there
are no rules on this point -- and the Seventh Circuit
made that point clear -- that what has been to be done
is to facilitate the purpose of the act, which is to get
a contract interpretation. We have --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So they can -- the
board can never have a rule that says, you have to
establish conferencing, you know, before the date of the
first arbitral proceeding, or within 30 days? The fact
that all that has to happen under the act is that there
be conferencing, you are free to establish it at any way
you want, at any time you want?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: No, you're not. Your Honor,
you are not free to establish it any way you want. You
have to have relevant evidence that the conferences
occurred, relevant probative evidence that it is not
prejudicial. The only rule that has been cited here for
keeping this evidence out is 301.5, and that is at page
50 -- 62a. And it is the rule that the Seventh Circuit
focused on, and it describes what should be in the
original submission. And it says, if I may quote part
of it, at 62a, the Court can read along with me: that
"Under the caption 'position of employees,' the
employees must clearly and briefly set forth all
relevant argumentative facts, including all documentary
evidence submitted in exhibit form quoting the agreement
or rules involved, if any; and all data submitted in
support of employees' position, must affirmatively show
the same to have been presented to the carrier and made
a part of the particular question in dispute."
That rule is referring to the investigative
process as to whether -- for example, one of the
engineers ran a red light, it's alleged. So we are
going to argue about that. They put on testimony. We
have witnesses. There is cross-examination. And then
the investigative officer makes a decision about whether
that's going to be put in the record.
The conference is an informal phone call.
It's not specified in the collective bargaining
agreement. There is nothing in the collective
bargaining agreement about it. But it's an informal
phone call that takes place after the whole contract
grievance procedure has been exhausted, and then,
before, it can be 30 seconds -- you know, Charlie
Ridenour, can call up Mr. Stone and say -- you know, can
we settle this? No. We can't. Okay.
That's -- that's a conference. That's all
it is, and what has to happen under the Act and,
unfortunately -- and it is unfortunate, we did not put
in the joint appendix, Section 2, Part 6, 152, Part 6,
of the Railway Labor Act, which describes what happens.
The union has to send a letter requesting a conference.
I hope it is not out of turn, given that we
have been describing evidence, but we've got letters
about all of these conferences, saying, we want to have
a conference. Once that happens, that triggers a
process. They have to specify -- both sides have to get
together and specify a meeting take place.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where -- where does
it say the unions have to send in letters requesting a
conference?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Oh, it's in Section 2 of
Part 6 of the Railway Labor Act. We did not cite that.
It's in the statute.
The conferencing, by the way, is in Section
2 of the Railway Labor Act. The board and its power and
procedures is in Section 3. Section 3 has no mention of
conferencing whatsoever in it. There isn't -- the word
doesn't appear in the section which describes what the
board is supposed to do or the board's procedures.
And it doesn't appear in the CFRs either.
The CFR's has this rule, Your Honor, that says -- you
know, trial type evidence has to be presented at this
investigative hearing below. Why? Because it's an
appellate court mand you don't want to get surprised --
you know, the union can't come forward in this case and
say, well, we have a surprise witness that shows
Mr. Smith didn't run the red light.
I mean, that's just out of bounds. It
surprises. It's blind-siding. You can't do it. The
Seventh Circuit said: Wait a second. This rule doesn't
have anything to do of proof of whether this phone call
occurred after the whole written record has been created
below. There are no rules about this, and, given that
there are no rules -- and given that the union -- and
the panel says this in its opinion -- is waving before
the panel -- you know, Mr. Neutral, we have letters --
you know, back and forth between the parties about the
fact that conferences occurred, and they don't dispute
that two of them occurred.
JUSTICE ALITO: I -- I still don't
understand your answer to the Chief Justice's question
about how the panels -- how these panels -- how the
board, in your view, is supposed to go about making some
sort of sensible procedural rules about establishing the
that conferencing took place.
They can't do it by rulemaking, and you seem
to argue that they can't do it by adjudication, so
what -- they can't do it at all? There -- this is just
going to be chaos, that there is no way to establish a
regular procedure to establish that there was
conferencing?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Your Honor, that's a good
question. I think the answer is that there are no
procedures on this because it wasn't -- it's not part of
the -- the process was set up to develop the trial type
evidence -- you know, whether the red light was run or
not.
It wasn't set up to determine how
conferencing occurred, and it's artificial to put the
rulemaking in here. The Seventh Circuit said:
Giving -- given the how and why of it, it should be done
in a way that is least prejudicial to the parties.
The Union Pacific could have raised this
issue when we filed the notices. They didn't. They
didn't because the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said, on that point
in your brief, that, normally, the carrier will raise
the absence of conferencing as an impediment at the time
the union files its notice of intent to file a
submission.
What is -- what is the basis? You didn't
give any citation for that. You say, ordinarily, that's
what the -- the carrier will -- would do, and then you
are tipped off, and then you put in your evidence about
conferencing.
What -- what makes you -- what backs up this
statement that, normally, carrier raises the absence of
conferencing as an impediment at the time the union
files its notice of intent?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Your Honor, the answer is
past practice. Although this is not a collective
bargaining situation, we are not applying the
contractor. That was the past practice. That's what we
alleged. This case was to show --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So could the
board -- could the board adopt a rule requiring that?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: The adjustment board could
adopt a rule. That is the agency -- and it still
exists. It has got offices here in Washington, D.C., 34
members. They were given this explicit rulemaking power
by Congress. They were delegated with the authority.
If there is an agency out there that is entitled to
Chevron type deference, that is the agency.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do they do anything else?
What do they do? What does the adjustment board do?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Your Honor, I'm not sure.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't want to get you in
trouble, but I'm not sure they do anything.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to be clear --
I will take you off the hook.
(Laughter. )
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to be clear,
you say it's established practice that the railroads
normally file their objection at a -- you know, at a
particular point, and you think the board is without
power to say: Look. This is the established practice.
You, railroad, did not follow it, and so we're not going
to consider your objections.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: No, no, Your Honor. Our --
our position is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. No. You mean
that they -- the board can't do that?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: We don't think that the
board can or should do that. What we do think is that,
if there is -- the rule that I just read from, 301.5,
says that you raise relevant argumentative facts.
Union Pacific, when the parties exchanged
the submissions, did not say that there wasn't any
conferencing. Now, their -- their comeback to that in
the reply brief was, well, we didn't know you had not
conferenced until we saw that you didn't have any
evidence of it. I mean, that's just not -- slightly, in
our view, disingenuous.
JUSTICE ALITO: Could they -- could they
adopt a rule that says that, if the -- if the parties go
through -- do everything that is necessary prior to the
time of the adjudication, they can't pop up at the very
last minute and send in a letter saying: Oh. By the
way, there was no conferencing; could they adopt a rule
like that because it's just a big waste of everybody's
time to leave it to -- to the last minute?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Your Honor, in our view, the
panel couldn't, but the adjustment board could, and the
adjustment board comes out with these little procedures,
like the one read here that -- which they say is not
relevant, that says -- you know, let's have these joint
submissions, let's keep evidence of conferencing out.
They are trying to -- these submissions that
come in for these arbitration cases are not to be
believed. I mean, they are like six feet high. So
there is a constant effort on the part of everybody in
the process to pare down the submissions to what is
actually in dispute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought, under the
Steelworkers trilogy, the arbitrators has broad
deference to adopt these sorts of modes of procedure.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: But, Your Honor --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That we would review
only for whatever it is.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: This is not the Steelworkers
trilogy. The Steelworkers trilogy is about private
arbitrators determining private contracts and
determining the procedures under private contracts.
They are -- they are applying the procedural rules of
the contract. There is nothing like that here.
We are here because a government-funded
panel, under a mandatory procedure, funded by the
government, was applying the Code of Federal
Regulations, not rules that the parties agreed to
themselves, so the deference that is given to -- by this
Court to a private arbitrator applying private
procedural rules that the parties agree to, and so on
and so forth, isn't present here because this is
governmental action. It is a governmental agency.
Now, we can -- the AFL-CIO gets into an
argument about whether it's a state action. But the
bottom line is that these are arbitrators paid for by
the government. The arbitrators are selected -- or the
eligible pool is selected by the government.
They are applying the Code of Federal
Regulations to keep us from getting to any procedural
rule or any substantive rule under a private collective
bargaining agreement. That looks a lot like
governmental action blocking the people from getting
their -- resolution of their private contractual claims.
That's why --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the review -- the
review of government arbitrators arbitrating provisions
pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement, the
standard of review of that is different than private
arbitrators under the Steelworkers trilogy?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: It should be, and, in the
hornbook sense, it is, the reality of it is, and that's
true here. We can say it's de novo review. We can say
it's a different standard than -- than Steelworkers or
John Wiley, and this is not a John Wiley case.
But the reality is you aren't going to get a
court's attention, unless they did something that is
actionable under the Steelworker trilogy, too. And the
Steelworker trilogy has the Enterprise Wheel case, which
says, if the arbitrator starts making up rules
willy-nilly, dispensing "his own brand of industrial
justice," not drawing their essence from the collective
bargaining agreement or, in this case, the CFRs.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you don't think
that this is that. I mean, if you say: Look. Here's
the rule. You have got to file these things by this
date, that is not imposing your own rule of industrial
justice.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: But there is no such rule,
Your Honor. I mean, if -- if there was, we would be in
a --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm saying that, if
the board adopts a procedure exactly like that, you may
challenge it as-- as violating due process because you
didn't have notice, any number of things, but you can't
say that the board is imposing its own brand of
industrial justice.
That sort of seems, to me, goes to the
merits in the standards of arbitration, rather than
procedures like this, unless it's a procedure like was
hypothesized earlier, that only applies to one side and
not the other.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Your Honor, all I can say,
in answer to that, is that there are governmental rules
that have very specific procedures that are in place.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought your position
was -- at least I thought I heard you say earlier, that
these individual panels do not have rulemaking authority
for the board. I'm looking at something that says,
"National Railway Adjustment Board, Uniform Rules of
Procedure, Revised June 23rd." That's put out by the --
the board, the one that you said that is --
MR. GEOGHEGAN: The adjustment board down
the street. 34 members.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And I thought that
your -- because there's nothing in this statute, nothing
in any regulation, that gives an individual panel the
right to proscribe rules of procedure that all parties
to these disputes are obliged to follow.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: That's correct, Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That -- that authority is
vested only in the board, not in the panels.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Arguably, in the board.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know how that could
possibly be true. I can't imagine being an arbitrator
and not being able to say: All right, you know, we are
going to have a conference next Tuesday. I want you to
have all of the -- all of the papers relevant to this
particular point that we are going to discuss in by two
days before.
Can't do that?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I would not know how to run
an arbitration without -- without establishing some
rules of procedure.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Your Honor, that didn't
happen here. If I may explain, there is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --
MR. GEOGHEGAN: The whole question that this
was -- that these documents were --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, at least back off
from your statement that an arbitrator cannot set rules
of procedure.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: I -- well, Your Honor, an
arbitrator can set rules of procedure within the
parameters of what is allowed by the act.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, all right. That's a
little different.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: But the act itself, and the
CFRs, are very clear that there is no requirement that
this evidence has to be submitted in the original
submission. And once the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you're making sense.
It says that, or it just doesn't address the question of
whether they have to be included in the original
submission? I mean, I assume there is no provision that
says -- or I missed it, there is no provision that says
the conferencing materials do not have to be included in
the original submission?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: There is no CFR that says
that the conferencing materials have to be in the
original submission or the case is dismissed. There is
nothing like --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Presumably, there is
none that says they don't have to be. In other words, I
take it that this is an issue that is simply not
addressed by the CFR rules?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Well, in any specific way.
I understand Your Honor's point, but the fact of it is
that the record that you attach to the original
submission is only about the relevant argumentative
facts that are in dispute. That doesn't mean that
that -- that there isn't other evidence in the record
down below.
What happened here, and this is different
from all the other cases, is that the union came in and
said: Oh, we've got evidence. And we've got evidence
that relates even to correspondence between the parties.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you are just
disputing the validity or applicability of the rule.
You don't want to comply with the rule. I mean, is it
any different than saying: Look, okay, we've got this
arbitration that is going to go forward. We are going
to meet at 10:00 Monday morning. It is the first
meeting. One side doesn't show up and then they say,
well, there's no rule that says we have to be there at
10:00 Monday morning; that's just the arbitrator saying
that to -- to move the procedure along, so you can't
penalize us in any way for not showing up at 10:00
Monday morning.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: I think that an arbitrator
could penalize a party for not showing up. But the --
the fact of this is that there is no authority in the
arbitrator to bar evidence of conferencing simply
because it wasn't in the original citation.
JUSTICE BREYER: I take it your point is
that there is a rule? It's called 29 CFR 301.7(b). If
that rule happened to say, you must show up by 11, that
would be a fair inference you don't have to show up by
10. And that rule says you have to submit the
argumentative facts, so there is a fair inference you
don't have to submit the facts that are not
argumentative.
I take it that that -- suppose that you are
wrong -- suppose that you are wrong on that. I think
maybe you are right, but suppose you are wrong. Suppose
they have loads of authority to make rules. Again, you
have a strong argument they don't, but suppose they did.
In your research -- and the same question is
really addressed to your fellow counsel. In your
research on this, did you find any instance in which
either a court or an agency does change a rule, and
says: Now you have to say the date right underneath the
caption, whereas previously it was stamped by the clerk.
Okay? They changed the rule. And they have every good
reason in the world for doing it. And then they apply
it to the case in front of them, which didn't know about
it, and then they won't let them change it.
Now, is there any case at all which said
that that was lawful? I can think of lots of cases that
say you cannot apply rules retroactively where it is
unfair to do it, even if you had have all the power in
the world to make the rules. I have lots of cases like
that. What I wondered is if anybody found a case along
the lines that I just said.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: We did not, Your Honor, and
the Wells case in particular, where there was no
question that the rule was valid, was a case where the
Fourth Circuit found a violation of due process because
the parties did not have reasonable notice, or the
carrier in that case did not have reasonable notice that
it was the postage date that was the date for the brief,
instead of the postmark.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you recall the
situation -- do you recall the situation Justice Breyer
described, and we can debate about it, whether it's
rulemaking by adjudication, which does take place, you
would say that in the situation you described, it
violated due process, right?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: I would say that it is also
in excess of the arbitrator's power under the act
because this arbitrator does not have rulemaking power.
JUSTICE BREYER: And because -- I mean, in
the normal --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought you said he did
have rulemaking power, so long as it did not contradict
--
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Your Honor, you were asking
me whether he could require the parties to show up at a
certain time. I mean, there are certain rulings that
are in the case. I don't want to get hung up on -- on
rules.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's not get -- can I ask
about argumentative facts? I frankly have never heard
of a phrase like argumentative facts. You seem to think
it means only those facts that are in dispute.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that would be a
pretty incomprehensible statement of the -- of the
event, if you write in your brief statement of facts and
you only write down the facts that are disputed and none
of the facts that are agreed to.
It couldn't possibly mean that. I would
think that argumentative facts simply means facts
relevant to the argument, and one of the facts relevant
to the argument is whether you did the necessary
consultation. But I don't know how you could interpret
argumentative facts to mean only those facts that are in
dispute. What kind of a statement of facts would that
be?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Well, Your Honor, you may be
correct in your view of it, but the parties have
interpreted this as being the facts that are in dispute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --
MR. GEOGHEGAN: And remember, this is a
procedure that is not about conferencing or proving
conferencing, it is a procedure that -- about what
happened at the trial.
So when you are looking at that 301.5, you
are looking at a rule that is designed to make clear to
the arbitrator and the panel what it is that is being
disputed, after the investigative hearing where the
carrier superintendent signs off and says, you know, we
are going to discharge this guy because he ran the red
light.
JUSTICE ALITO: What does the government
party define --
MR. GEOGHEGAN: In that context, it is not
about conferencing at all.
JUSTICE ALITO: How does the party filing
the grievance know exactly which facts are in dispute at
the time when they made the submission? Here, there's a
dispute about whether there was a dispute about
conferencing.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Yes. Well, that's because
this particular rule is so focused on what happens at
trial.
Your Honor, if you look at the collective
bargaining agreement and the trial-type procedures, they
are elaborate. It is like a state court proceeding.
There is not a neutral party. There is a carrier's
officer behind it. But you have union representatives
who are better than most lawyers, I must say, in terms
of putting in the exhibits and evidentiary record and
cross-examination. This is all transcribed elaborately
in the transcript, so that it's like at the end of a
trial. I mean, the parties know, at the end of a
contested criminal or civil trial that may go on for,
basically, all day, what the facts are that are in
dispute.
But at any rate, this is the regulation that
was created in 1934, and it was not about proving
conference --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask you this
question, if I may: Your opponent says there is sort of
a common-law adjudication method of developing new
rules. And that there is precedent out there for
dismissing these arbitrations because the conferencing
was not established in the record at the time the
proceeding started. Is this a reference to the -- to
precedent, correct?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Your Honor, this isn't a
system of precedent. There is certainly no strict stare
decisis here.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, I understand that,
but were there presidents that might well have put you
on notice that you better get this in the record?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: No, Your Honor, not in or
our view. I mean, the cases they cite are arbitration
awards where the arbitrator says, looking at the whole
record, not what was attached to the original submission
-- there isn't a single arbitration award that says, we
are only looking at the original submission and we won't
look at any evidence that might have been in the record
below and you want to add now. There isn't any case
like that. So -- but there are only a handful of these
cases that they cite in the joint appendix.
Your Honor, there are probably 60,000,
70,000 of these cases. They are not codified online.
What lawyer -- what lawyer would want to practice law in
a system where the procedural rules are maybe in 4 cases
out of 80,000 that are not codified --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, that's really not my
-- but you do concede, do you, that there are half a
dozen cases out there which were dismissed because there
was the failure of the record to show that there was
conferencing below?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: We do admit that, but we say
that in our particular case, the record would certainly
include or we would be allowed to supplement with the
evidence from the --
JUSTICE STEVENS: So your -- your objection
is -- is two-fold. One, that you think the requirement
that the record show it affirmatively is not supported.
And secondly, there -- you should have had an
independent right to -- to make an offer of proof that
would have cured the defect.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: That's correct and we don't
know of any case that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You did -- you did make
an offer of proof as to --
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In fact, the panel
invited it and you have made it; and then the panel said
sorry, it's too late, you have to do it at the time you
make your initial filing.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Your Honor, I don't -- I
wish I had made that point earlier. I mean, they --
they -- originally we passionately objected to this, and
the -- and the neutral members said, oh, fine, you know,
we will -- we will reconvene for -- we will reschedule
this in three months, come back.
So everybody came back with the evidence.
Union Pacific came back with what -- I mean, they found
out that, in fact, they have -- probably two of these
cases had been conferenced, we came back with our
letters, we said here it is, and -- and the neutral
member said, oh, no, you don't understand, I didn't
really want you to do this. So, you know, why -- why --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think you
could submit that offer of proof at any time during the
proceeding and the board would have to accept it?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: We think of it as relevant,
probative evidence as to conferencing when the objection
had not been raised at the time that these cases were
conferenced, at the time that this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why wouldn't the
other side say we don't have to raise the objection at a
particular time. You can't make a rule telling us we
have to do that.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Your Honor, I'm afraid there
is such a rule, and that is 301.5. And it says that the
parties have to praise relevant argumentative facts in
the original submission. That doesn't mean that it only
has to be in the original submission, but there was only
one submission here, and they did not raise
conferencing.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So your answer to my
earlier question is that you can submit that offer of
proof at any time, and it has to be considered?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Well, any time that the
objection is raised. If -- if it is not done in a way
that prejudices the other party, the answer is yes.
There is no rule that prohibits that.
And the purpose of the Act, Your Honor, is
to get the parties to have contract interpretations.
And the way this was done -- the way these cases were
dismissed without any hearing and what the Seventh
Circuit called blind-siding and what the union
dissidents said was gamesmanship is the kind of thing
that should be of concern of this Court, because it
really undermines the integrity of the arbitration
process, and it's very important to keep that.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask you some
questions about the common law that we are talking about
here.
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Are there also cases out
there in which the record doesn't tell us whether there
was conferencing, but nevertheless, the merits were
decided?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: Oh, sure. I mean, but it --
JUSTICE STEVENS: There are least six -- six
or are there more than that?
MR. GEOGHEGAN: I don't think that there
are -- there are the cases that we cited where it turned
out there wasn't conferencing and the arbitrator said go
back and conference. I mean, you can step outside the
hall and do it in 30 seconds. You know, it's a -- it's
a statutory procedure that is not really part of this
proof process that is set up by the collective
bargaining agreement. Well, my time up.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Geoghegan.
Mr. Ballenger, you have three minutes
remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF J. SCOTT BALLENGER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. BALLENGER: Four quick points.
Justice Stevens, the awards that you are
looking for are at pages 40 and 45 of the joint
appendix, and also we would suggest that you look at
first division award 23883, which is easy to locate.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Were any of those
decisions that were boardwise or did they apply to one
panel?
MR. BALLENGER: All these decisions are
rendered by one panel. The board never sits as -- as a
body.
The Respondent suggests that the Steelworker
trilogy standard that this Court has articulated for
labor arbitration generally doesn't apply under the RLA.
There is no authority for that, that many I am aware of.
The lower courts have understood it the same way, and
there is every reason to think that's correct. Congress
was quite clear in the legislative history to the '66
amendment that it anticipated that the standard of
review under this statute would be the same as that
applied in ordinary private labor arbitration. And, of
course, the Sheehan case rejects the idea that there is
some kind of special judicial review for question of law
under the RLA.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there is a
difference between governmentally ordered arbitrations
and private contracts. In private contracts the parties
negotiate the rules and they set them forth, and the
arbitrators then follow --
MR. BALLENGER: The difference, Your Honor,
I believe, is that in the ordinary arbitral context when
you have a procedural question, the question is what the
parties would have wanted. Here the question is what
Congress would have wanted, but there is no -- about the
correct standards of review. But there is no reason to
think that Congress wanted anything other than what the
parties ordinarily want under this case law, which is
for procedural questions to be resolved by the
arbitrator.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is it your position that
if you go through the first phase and as everybody is
walking out the two adversaries in the first
investigative space say this is never going to be
settled, this is the most important case in the history
of this -- the railroad system. Let's go take it to the
board.
MR. BALLENGER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That they can't waive
the grievance procedure, that they just can't go
straight to you?
MR. BALLENGER: That -- that's correct, Your
Honor. The statute in section 2 Second requires a
conference. And Respondents argued initially in this
case that the statute shouldn't be read that way and
there should be an exception read in from section 2
Sixth. That was rejected by the district court and they
chose not to appeal it to the Seventh Circuit. It's not
before this Court.
Now, Respondent focuses a lot on section
301.5 in its language about argumentative facts. I
think that our interpretation here today of that
language isn't ultimately the point. That this is a
question for the arbitrators to resolve unless -- even
if a court is convinced that the arbitrators committed
serious error.
But the more important maybe threshold point
is that the arbitrators didn't say that they were
resting their opinion just on section 301.5. They never
invoked 301.5. They said circular one and the weight of
precedent under the arbitration. And if this Court
looks at section 301.2(a), which requires the parties to
include all facts relevant to the dispute in their
initial submissions, I think that resolves the
question.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But we disagree with
you. You say if the board was just plain wrong. If we
look at the Act and circular one and say we can't find
what they said anywhere in there, does that doom your
argument? Have they asked -- acted outside, has the
board acted outside its jurisdiction?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You may answer the
question, counsel.
MR. BALLENGER: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
The relevant standard is if the board is
even arguably construing or applying the relevant rules
and its decision stands, even if a court is convinced
that the arbitrator committed serious error.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:00 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
59:15 adoption 29:1 anybody 26:7 arbitration 6:6 48:15,24 49:3
adversaries anyway 21:17 8:9 11:1 23:1,2 arguments
advice 21:7 10:23 28:16 30:15 arising 23:17
7:7 13:3 afraid 54:1 1:19 arbitrations artificial 36:7
28:15 afternoon 27:23 appears 6:16 51:3 56:24 aside 3:14
30:18 agency 10:22 8:15 arbitrator 6:9 asked 59:2
37:11,15,16 appellate 9:20 16:18 23:4,6 asking 48:8
33:20 40:13 46:22 34:22 23:19 26:2 aspect 28:6
34:10,13 agency-super... appendix 6:17 29:3 40:10 associated 12:18
48:1 10:25 15:12 33:22 41:15 43:10 assume 25:4
58:25 agree 18:18 51:22 56:2 44:2,5 45:22 44:16
48:22 applicable 21:17 55:12 57:12 30:7 51:16
38:23 49:21,25 apply 6:7 11:11 57:2 58:11,12 43:6 46:3,17
30:11,12 allow 10:18 56:5,12 4:19 6:6 28:2 6:18 16:23
35:20 allowed 10:11 applying 6:11 48:1 22:10 51:17
47:22 17:10 44:6 16:19,24 26:2 arguably 6:11 56:3
52:10 37:5 40:3,7,10 16:18 26:2 awards 3:18
26:14 56:17 appropriate argue 33:6 aware 21:22
analyzed 5:3 16:19 20:14 argued 58:1
37:10 announcing arbitrability 2:2,7 3:4,7 5:1 b 26:23
39:7,8 25:18 22:25 5:8,13,14 19:9 back 7:15 13:16
answer 35:14 arbitral 6:8,20 19:14 27:21 15:1 20:19
42:14 54:8,13 12:13 16:13,23 48:25 49:1 44:1 53:7,8,9
3:6,7,9 blocking 40:23 brief 5:3,7 13:17 56:20 57:10,17 54:8 55:18
board 6:19,19 14:5 36:15 58:2 59:13,14 59:4,6,12
7:13 6:23 7:5,8 8:17 38:19 47:17 cases 7:17 8:13 choose 4:11 13:6
8:5,15 9:9 8:18,20,24 9:1 48:20 8:15 9:5 15:18 chose 58:5
11:20 9:5,7,10,10,14 briefly 32:21 17:8 24:14,21 circuit 4:1 5:3,3
13:8 9:16,18,25 broad 39:19 28:11,22,24 5:7 14:1 26:17
14:15 10:6,9,11,16 Brotherhood 29:7,8,9,11,12 31:24 32:16
16:6,11 10:19,23 11:2 1:7 3:5 39:13 45:11 35:3 36:8
17:13,24 11:6,16 12:4,8 buddies 17:8 47:5,8 51:14 47:14 54:19
19:20 12:9,9,16,24 burden 8:7,10 51:22,24 52:1 58:5
21:11 13:1,21 14:6 business 25:10 52:5 53:11,20 circular 5:4 6:24
22:7 15:4,8,17,24 54:17 55:3,11 7:3 9:15,19
24:3 16:2,11,12 C categorically 10:8 12:12
17:6,9,12 18:1 C 2:1 3:1 28:20 16:22 19:7,11
18:6,19,23 call 33:10,14,17 CENTRAL 1:11 19:23 28:12
19:15,21,22 35:4 certain 23:4 58:17,25
55:20,22 20:7,10,13,18 called 46:7 28:20 48:10,10 citation 36:20
56:7 20:23 21:2,12 54:19 certainly 4:10 46:5
22:7,14 24:11 capricious 5:15 13:11 51:8 cite 34:10 51:14
25:1,6 26:9 caption 32:20 52:9 51:22
37:5 34:13,17 35:16 careful 6:18 CFRs 34:18 civil 50:18
41:3,18 37:9,9,10,18 16:21,23 41:18 44:10 claim 4:13,16
55:17 38:4,11,13 carefully 6:19 CFR's 34:19 12:18
50:19 56:8 57:19 49:18 change 46:22 22:25 29:21
36:19 boards 18:4 carrier's 6:25 changed 46:25 38:1 44:10
23:18 board's 4:19 5:5 case 3:4,19 5:14 characterizati... clearly 6:12 15:6
3:8 34:17 13:19,24 14:4 Chevron 37:16 Code 28:12 40:7
55:23 body 9:20 16:13 14:6 18:22 Chicago 1:22 40:19
57:4 bottom 40:16 22:4,22 23:3,8 29:19 30:9 collective 33:11
Breyer 5:13,19 41:18 44:22 38:10 39:18,22 come 27:14
53:11,21 12:11 correspondence dates 30:20
34:2 35:11 constant 39:15 costs 25:11 de 41:8
59:11 15:19 16:5,8 construed 21:3 count 5:9 decided 22:22
21:9 22:8,11 16:18,24 26:2 10:21 16:12 decision 6:10,12
30:1 31:2,4,7 29:4 49:2 3:10,19,22 4:2 16:19 22:17,20
36:23 37:1 14:6,8 21:20 16:25 20:14 decisis 51:9
52:4 53:19 54:7 57:4 40:10 46:22 defect 22:15
17:7 confine 4:18 28:5,6,7,7,11 56:11 58:4,6 defense 11:14
confusing 10:5 56:25,25 6:10 41:12 denying 28:13
10:16,17 congressional 4:22 6:23 cross-examina...describes 32:17
12:22 24:9 12:12 33:7 50:15 33:23 34:16
17:3,8,9 consider 9:16 convinced 58:12 curable 22:15 describing
23:10 10:9 11:7,11 59:10 cure 17:10,11 15:14 34:1
12:16,20 22:8 convincing 8:9 cured 52:17 description
23:4 29:12 29:10 23:25
43:12 38:7 correct 8:16 D designed 49:15
55:13 consideration 20:4 43:5 49:7 D 3:1 determination
22:12 24:12 51:6 52:18 data 16:3,7 28:13
29:8,9,11 54:10 correctly 6:4 date 32:5 41:22 determined 7:16
38:20 considering 7:24 46:23 47:17,17 7:24 8:17
49:4,8 50:1,3,3 eminently 22:15 32:15,23 34:1 10:10 24:6
56:24 disputes 19:16 enforced 8:18 51:19 52:11 facts 14:5,8 16:3
26:9 43:4 engineers 1:8 53:8,19 16:7 19:7,8,11
11:3 31:12 45:15 33:5 50:14 30:3,3 32:22
17:5,10 dissidents 54:20 enormous 16:15 exactly 17:13 38:15 45:7
district 58:4 Enterprise 26:4 42:3 50:1 46:11,12 48:14
41:4,9 division 3:12,14 41:14 example 33:4 48:15,16,20,21
45:10,17 7:4 30:15,16 entirely 23:16 exceeding 25:24 48:22,24,24,25
document 19:12 12:2,5 16:12 exception 58:3 50:19 54:3
29:7 documents erroneous 11:18 15:23 fails 4:18
18:10 20:20 error 58:13 exchanged failure 11:8,13
16:16 drawing 41:17 essential 22:11 exercise 9:2 fairness 14:22
27:9 28:9 42:4 32:5,8,11 exhibits 18:8 Federal 18:2
44:22 22:6 16:16 38:2,5 expect 8:2 fellow 46:20
54:18 D.C 1:13,20 51:4 explain 43:22 file 18:18 36:17
E 43:19 explains 3:19 files 8:1 36:17
23:18 earlier 42:11,17 everybody explanation filing 49:25 53:1
12:2,8 effort 24:10 everybody's expressed 16:21 find 46:21 58:25
16:3 39:15 39:4 expressly 7:3 findings 3:12
19:1 either 34:18 evidence 8:19 16:10 fine 53:5
20:21 46:22 10:10,12 15:10 extend 28:23 first 3:11 4:12
25:7 elaborate 50:10 18:25 21:9 5:8,9,25 9:3
33:2 elaborately 22:8,11 23:4,5 F 10:8 11:21
39:17 50:15 29:3,10,13,25 facilitate 32:1 15:12 18:16
32:6 29:17 30:5,12 20:13 21:3,9 handful 51:21 47:11 48:8
56:3 31:3,10,23 22:9 26:21 handle 10:1 49:6 50:8 51:7
32:10 34:9 30:2 33:6,9 handled 7:5 51:13,23 53:2
28:8,11 37:19,22 38:8 41:11 43:12,14 29:5 32:7 57:20,25
29:12,16 38:12 39:6,21 45:18,18 49:19 33:20 43:22 Honor's 45:4
39:24 41:6,24 57:16 happened 15:3 hook 37:24
43:8,17,21,24 35:25 46:25 20:5,9 23:23 hornbook 41:7
48:8,17 49:6 26:15 happens 17:14 42:11
40:12 giant 13:23 governmentally heard 21:10 17:15
Ginsburg 8:12 56:24 22:22 25:15 ignore 3:24
10:14,21 12:14 40:5 hearing 34:21 imagine 43:10
18:13 20:18 21:10 24:13 heed 21:7 11:14
25:16 36:20 5:8,10,25 6:2 Honor 4:9,23 24:2,8 25:10
36:9 grounds 11:7 12:23 13:12 58:14
go 5:20 13:15 guaranteed 21:11,19 22:9 23:21
31:16,22 35:16 guarantees 24:22,24 25:13 include 11:8
56:12 goes 42:8 H 35:25 37:3,19 included 9:17
27:18,19 15:2 17:1,4 half 11:15 52:4 41:25 42:13
29:6
20:3,8 hall 55:14 43:5,21 44:4 16:7,9,10
interstitial justice 3:3,9 4:1 40:20 54:23 19:1 34:1,7
intertwined 4:5 5:13,19 7:10 kind 5:22 27:12 let's 25:4 39:10
52:16 33:3,8 34:21 10:14,21 11:5 kinds 23:5 lifeline 25:10
invoked 58:17 15:13 16:4,9 26:7 32:5 line 40:16
41:16,22 involved 23:8 18:6,13 19:3 34:23 35:9,10 litigants 17:14
32:24 19:24 20:3,18 36:4 38:3,19 17:15 27:13
20:21 22:3,14,20 43:18 47:2 Livingston 23:7
8:11 13:24 24:14,18,23 50:17 52:19 locate 56:3
36:12 45:1 26:4,6,16,19 known 19:6 3:5
12:11 29:15,19 30:9 labor 3:11 6:6 look 6:14 10:11
53:1 J 31:1,5,8,15 7:6 13:3 17:25 14:23 15:11
J 1:20 2:3,8 3:7 32:3 34:6 28:15 33:23 16:20 38:5
46:21 41:10,10 38:1,10,23 language 3:23 56:2 58:25
20:12 21:23 33:22 42:2,7,16,25 21:13 58:8,10 49:14,15 51:15
22:1 39:10 51:22 43:6,9,18,23 late 52:25 51:18 56:1
judgment 4:6 47:19,20 48:3 law 6:10 11:6,9 lot 14:5,7 40:22
16:13 11:23 56:21 49:9,21,25 12:2 51:25 lots 47:5,8
49:2 June 30:20 50:24 51:10 54:25 56:21 lower 6:3 56:14
27:1,7,11 jurisdiction 53:15,22 54:8 lawful 47:5 M
28:2,4,7 4:19,20 6:3,7,9 54:24 55:3,8 lawyer 51:25,25 making 35:16
32:2 8:22,23,25 9:2 55:18,25 56:4 lawyers 50:13 41:15 44:13
9:6,8,11 10:4 56:23 57:13,21 leave 39:5 mand 34:22
54:16 12:7,16,19,25 59:12 legislative 56:16 28:16 40:6
49:8 27:2 59:3 21:1,25 21:13
Misco 23:3 opportunity 35:15,15 42:18
10:9 11:6 mistaken 9:25 O 2:1 3:1 oral 1:16 2:2 3:7 paper 20:24
27:8 modes 39:20 objected 53:4 27:21 22:6
59:15 Monday 45:19 objection 38:3 order 3:12,13 papers 43:13
19:8,8 morning 45:19 objections 3:21 ordinarily 24:3 parameters 44:6
20:22 45:22,25 38:7 36:20 57:10 pare 39:16
28:5 move 45:23 obliged 21:7 ordinary 8:11 part 24:2 32:18
35:1 43:4 10:22 15:18 33:2,22,22
39:14 N obviously 22:7 56:19 57:4 34:10 36:2
44:16 N 2:1,1 3:1 occur 10:18 organized 9:21 39:15 55:15
48:3 National 42:20 occurred 7:8 8:2 original 29:13 particular 30:1
49:3 nature 3:17 8:7 10:10 30:7 32:18 30:14 33:2
51:14 necessary 38:25 15:16,19,21 44:11,15,19,22 38:4 43:14
54:4 49:1 23:23 24:21 45:5 46:5 47:12 50:6
needs 10:5 30:3 32:13 51:16,18 54:4 52:9 53:24
negotiations 36:7 originally 53:4 6:7,21 9:17,22
neutral 35:9 30:21 12:11 27:2,10 18:25 22:6
21:2 never 4:25 20:9 53:16 54:9 35:10 36:10
21:10 27:3 officer 33:8 P 38:16,24 40:8
56:8 57:16 oh 19:16 29:17 7:14,15,25 48:9 49:7
nevertheless 39:2 44:7 38:16 53:9 56:25 57:6,10
37:13 25:18 51:1 okay 14:11 pages 6:16,18 23:14,14 46:2
53:5 Ninth 5:3,3 25:18 33:18 14:1 16:21 49:22,25 50:11
48:4 20:20 panel 10:24 17:2 passionately
42:9 55:5 36:15,25 38:3 one-time 30:19 21:12,14 29:7 pay 21:7
42:5 47:15,16 15:10 39:7 40:6 43:2 pejorative 20:1
26:20 power 10:1 probably 27:10 promised 28:16 question 3:20
30:17,18,21,23 51:23 53:10 promulgated 4:3,4 5:21,22
38:2,5 51:25 11:17 12:10,17 17:3 35:4 23:15,20 27:16
2:4,9 3:8 precedence 23:9,17 25:1,1 54:10 55:16 35:14 36:1
20:10 25:5,8,9,17 proper 15:16 43:24 44:14
precedents 6:20 40:3,11,20 property 9:22 58:11,22 59:5
35:18 precluded 23:16 13:22,25 23:6 proscribe 43:3 quick 55:24
47:22 precondition 28:16 33:15 protected 25:11 quite 56:16
15:5 prejudices 40:6 42:3,10 31:12,13 14:18 16:2
54:13 42:21 43:3,20 provides 6:1 32:18
27:24 4:10 14:18,22,24 provision 21:17 railroad 1:3 3:4
38:6
25:17
34:14,17 36:2 provisions 7:6 57:18
27:6 presented 9:22 39:8 40:2 41:2 railroads 38:2
31:20,24 29:22 33:1 42:10,15 50:9 published 25:4 railroad's 25:9
36:14 34:20 proceeding 32:6 purpose 28:18 Railway 3:11
43:14 presidents 51:11 50:10 51:5 32:1 54:15 7:6 13:3 17:25
46:6 53:3 Presumably 53:17 purposes 3:25
33:23
proceedings pursuant 15:24 34:10,13 42:20
29:16 principles 6:12 28:9 33:4 34:4 30:19 33:6,9
38:9
36:3 39:16 33:21 36:7,22 53:20 54:12
57:13 prior 15:4,8,18 42:4 47:14,24 42:21 51:11 raises 36:25
48:23 40:1,2,10,10 prohibits 54:14 59:14 reach 4:11 11:3
regulations 15:5 46:21 RLA 6:2 56:12 42:14,20 43:3
32:19 rejected 11:21 28:17 40:24 ROBERTS 3:3 45:2 46:17
39:9 58:4 resolve 58:11 27:17,20 29:19 47:6,8 48:12
rejects 56:20 resolved 12:9,9 30:9 31:1,5,15 51:2 52:1 57:1
46:20 32:12,13,22 26:10 44:24 45:14 43:18
53:14 38:15 39:10 respect 12:15 47:19 53:15,22
55:15 43:13 45:6 respectfully 54:8 55:18 S
20:16 54:3 58:20 respective 6:21 rule 8:19 11:17 satisfies 6:12
47:1 59:8,9 Respondent 15:14 19:4,5,6 satisfy 8:10
57:8 relied 21:1 1:23 2:6 27:22 20:8 24:20 saw 5:2 38:20
relying 22:3,4 58:7 26:20,21 29:2 12:20 13:5
16:21 remains 19:23 Respondent's 31:17,18,18 39:2 42:2
55:22 49:10 resting 11:16,17 35:3 37:9,11 5:17 6:19 7:3
15:11,15 20:19 50:12 review 4:17 5:8 46:8,10,22,25 34:19 35:8
33:9 35:5 requesting 5:9 6:1,1,5 47:13 49:15
39:10
50:14
19:1 11:23 16:17 50:6 53:24 41:15 42:19
33:24 34:7 20:17 22:18 54:2,14
55:4
49:19 30:6 56:18,21 57:8 37:13 42:18 54:2
44:10 52:13 reviewing 28:2 10:1,7,7,12 29:15 31:8
research 46:19 rights 14:21 40:11 41:15 2:8 3:7 55:22
35:3 45:20 46:8,9 42:15 45:3 Steelworker 6:5 sufficient 8:9
48:9 52:6,14 specified 3:14 41:13,14 56:10 suggest 11:15
shows 34:24 squarely 11:21 22:18 27:5 11:22
15:25 45:20 53:23 stamped 46:24 39:25 41:5,9 superintendent
31:10 sides 34:4 stand 10:23 step 13:24 15:1 49:18
34:9,12 signs 49:18 16:20 55:13 supplement
similar 5:22 standard 6:5,13 Stevens 7:10,20 52:10
58:3,7 23:8 16:17 20:17 8:3 15:13 16:4 support 6:21
simultaneous standards 18:3 54:24 55:3,8 16:3,7
sits 56:8 stare 51:8 straight 57:23 46:15,16,16,18
situation 37:5 started 51:5 stress 28:1 35:16
41:7 six 39:14 55:8,8 starts 6:17 41:15 strong 46:18 sure 8:3,6 25:11
Sixth 58:4 state 17:16,19 studied 6:20 37:19,21 55:7
Smith 34:25 statement 16:2,6 submission 16:1 surprised 27:15
Sons 23:11 44:2 48:19,20 30:7 32:18 system 51:8 52:1
26:14 sort 10:22,25 States 1:1,17 44:19,22 45:6
32:21 23:25 35:17 stating 19:24 50:2 51:16,18
44:2,5
50:25 statute 3:22 4:13 54:4,5,6 T 2:1,1
57:1 sorts 39:20 4:17 13:19,21 submissions take 34:5 37:24
4:1,15,21,24 16:1 17:17 12:12 15:24 47:22 57:18
31:24 25:22,25 26:6 27:11 31:8,11 39:16 58:21 talked 18:20
35:3 26:16,19,25 34:11 43:1 submit 46:10,12 talking 17:22,22
54:18 56:23 57:13,21 56:18 57:25 53:16 54:9 22:21 24:19,19
58:23 58:2 submitted 26:9 27:10 54:25
56:20 sounds 12:19 statutory 3:23 59:13,15 telling 20:18
21:2 special 56:21 5:10 7:7 25:23 substantive tells 10:15 18:8
specific 10:7 28:9 55:15 12:17 27:11 terms 3:24 6:2
22:12 time 9:18 17:14 57:15 22:6,8 wanted 57:6,7,9
22:9 27:14 two-fold 52:13 unquote 14:18 warned 26:20
59:6,12 39:1,5 48:10 U urge 6:14 wasn't 18:21
27:25 53:21,24 54:10 54:22 15:23 46:5 55:12
54:11 55:17 underneath uses 9:13 waste 39:4
14:16 tipped 36:22 understand 17:7 V way 10:5 14:7
today 27:10 58:9 18:24 21:16 v 1:6 3:4 23:7 15:16 31:11,21
41:21 told 26:20 35:14 45:4 30:17 32:8,11 34:12
toss 12:21 51:10 53:13 valid 47:13 35:22 36:10
9:10 3:5 7:9 9:18 16:12 vested 43:7 54:12,17,17
12:23 transcribed 56:14 viable 4:13 56:14 58:2
14:15 50:15 unfair 5:16 view 11:18 ways 23:8
19:3,13 transcript 50:16 13:22,25 14:2 35:16 38:22 Wednesday
30:9 trapping 20:22 14:3 15:2,3 39:6 49:7 1:14
36:1 trial 17:16,19 27:13 47:7 51:14 weight 6:25 9:15
34:20 36:3 unfortunate viewed 4:4 12:13 20:10
46:1,15 49:13 50:7,17 33:21 violate 20:16 58:17
48:15,24 50:18 unfortunately 22:17 Wells 47:12
53:15,18 trial-type 50:9 33:21 violated 47:24 well-settled 6:10
56:15 tried 23:14 unheard 30:11 violates 5:17 went 7:14,15
58:9,21 triggers 34:3 30:13 violating 42:4 we're 20:8 31:13
27:21 39:19,25,25 20:20 28:10 47:14 34:1 45:12,12
39:18 56:11 7:14,15,25 whatsoever
trouble 37:21 15:21,23 25:5 W 34:15
true 11:5 30:6 25:11 29:8 Wait 35:3 Wheel 26:4
7:25 trying 39:12 35:7 36:11,17 waive 57:21 wholly 20:15
Tuesday 43:12 37:1 38:16 waived 5:7 Wiley 23:7,11
28:22 turn 33:25 45:11 50:12 23:13 41:10,10
29:8,9 turned 55:11 53:9 54:19 waiver 11:12 willing 13:23
53:7 two 4:5 7:17 unions 34:7 walking 57:15 willy-nilly 41:16
8:13,13,15 union's 25:8 want 8:23 9:5 wish 20:20 53:3
58:14 13:10 17:8 United 1:1,17 34:22 37:20 witnesses 33:7
34:15 23rd 42:21 72a 6:16
9:25 27 2:6 8
30:10 29 46:7 80,000 52:2
13:12 34:14,14
301 30:8
46:15,15 15:25 26:23
58:24 58:19
7:3
58:8,16
34 37:12 42:24
30:22
1:6 3:4
4 52:1
6:24 7:3 9:15 40 15:11 22:10
10:8 56:1
16:22 45 56:1
46:10 5
45:19,22 5 5:6,10
50 32:16
46:8 55 2:9
1:18 3:2
31:10 33:22 6
30:18 6 33:22,22 34:10
15:12 60,000 51:23
62a 32:16,19
30:21 65 6:16
30:20,21 65a 6:16
50:22 66 56:16
6:17
33:22 34:9,13 7
58:3 7 1:14
59:14 70,000 51:24
1:14 71a 6:17
