IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
KEITH SMITH, WARDEN, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-724
FRANK G. SPISAK, JR. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 13, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GEN. RICHARD CORDRAY, ESQ., Attorney General, Columbus,
Ohio; on behalf of the Petitioners.
MICHAEL J. BENZA, ESQ., Chagrin Falls, Ohio; Appointed
by this Court.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
GEN. RICHARD CORDRAY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MICHAEL J. BENZA, ESQ.
Appointed by this Court 20
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GEN. RICHARD CORDRAY, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 51
P R O C E E D I N G S
(11:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 08-724, Smith v. Spisak.
General Cordray.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. RICHARD CORDRAY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CORDRAY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
Because this case arises under the
deferential standards of the AEDPA statute, Mr. Spisak
must show that the Ohio Supreme Court's decision was
contrary to Mills v. Maryland or that it unreasonably
applied Strickland v. Washington.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why? I -- I have been
trying to figure out why the State court would know in
its decisionmaking that Mills commanded a different
result when Mills was issued after the State denied its
petition for rehearing.
MR. CORDRAY: It's a bit of a conundrum,
Your Honor, because Mills was issued after the Ohio
Supreme Court's decision here, but before it became
final on direct review when cert was denied by this
Court in March of 1989.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, finality in that
sense is generally looked at in terms of AEDPA statute
of limitations. Why should the same rule apply to the
question of whether a State has acted contrary to or
unreasonably in light of Supreme Court precedent when
the precedent didn't exist at the time it was rendering
its decision? How can a court act?
MR. CORDRAY: I'm perfectly willing, Your
Honor, to back it up a step and say Mills was not
clearly-established law at the time that the Ohio
Supreme Court decided, although the issues were current
at the time.
But I would go further and say the extension
of Mills that the Sixth Circuit's ruling made here is
not clearly-established law even today, more than
20 years later. There is a -- the vast majority of
Circuits, Fourth, Fifth, Seventh, Eighth, Tenth, have
rejected the position the Sixth Circuit took here, and
in fact, this case is quite distinct from Mills even if
Mills were applicable. But I would take your point and
I would agree with it that it's kind of tough to impose
on the Ohio Supreme Court Mills when -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We don't have to go any
further if we simply address the question, at what point
in time are we talking about a State court's decision,
correct?
MR. CORDRAY: Fair enough. Fair enough.
Yes. But I would say this case is distinct even from
Mills, where the Court determined that the jury
instructions gave the jury to believe that they could
only consider mitigating factors that they had
determined unanimously to be present. And in this case,
none of that was done. The verdict form was quite
different, and in fact the jury was only instructed to
be unanimous on the ultimate question of whether the
aggravators outweighed the mitigators, a common
instruction and one that's upheld around the country
consistently.
Second -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Cordray, under
the charge that was given, what happens if there is a
juror who thinks that the aggravating circumstances
don't outweigh the mitigating circumstances? Under
Ohio's current instruction that means no death penalty.
But under the instruction that was given
here, that all 12 must agree on -- on the aggravators
outweighing the mitigators, what is the consequence of a
failure of the jurors to agree on that question?
MR. CORDRAY: Even at the time, if the jury
effectively hung -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. CORDRAY: -- on that question, the
consequence would be that the court would then impose
some version of a life sentence.
The issue is whether the jury was required
to be instructed that at the time, whether they were
required to be instructed something that might push them
away from unanimity. This Court has never so held, and
in fact, in Jones v. United States the Court rejected
that rule in a ruling that was not dissented to by
anyone on the panel. Your dissent in that case at
footnote 20 took no issue with the -- with the notion
that the jury did not have to be instructed in ways that
would push them away from rendering unanimous verdict on
the ultimate question.
Since that time, as a matter of State court
practice the Ohio Supreme Court in State v. Brooks did
say: We are now going to add that instruction. But
they later themselves rejected that that was required by
the Eighth Amendment in State v. Davis, and that also
has been the consistent holding of most circuits, that
that is not required. If I could move -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It would be -- under the
charge that was given in this case, you say it would be
-- then the judge would be obliged to give one of the
two life sentences. It would not be a deadlock
requiring a resentencing hearing.
MR. CORDRAY: I believe that's the case at
the time, Your Honor.
At the time, the instructions pushed the
jury toward unanimity one way or the other. Do the
aggravators outweigh the mitigators or do they not?
Since that time, the Ohio Supreme Court as a matter of
practice has been willing to go further and instruct the
jury, or have the jury be instructed, that if a single
one of you feels that the aggravators do not outweigh
the mitigators, that will preclude a death sentence.
But that has never been constitutionally
required by this Court. It is an extension of Mills v.
Maryland that has never been so held by this Court, and
in fact is a source of a -- of a significant
overwhelming majority of circuits the opposite way.
If I could move to the -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't your adversary's
position -- I'm sure they will speak for themselves, but
their position would be that this is a step further than
Jones or other cases because if in fact -- what you are
tilling us is that if the jury hangs, the court will
have to impose a life sentence or some form of it.
But the jury could believe that they could
-- that it's either death or life, and one holdout juror
would say: Well, I don't want to let this guy out;
because those are the only two choices and 11 people
want to go for dead -- death and I'm the only holdout, I
have to vote for death to make sure that he is
restrained in a way that I find acceptable.
MR. CORDRAY: This, as Your Honor notes from
your time on the trial court, is the jury dynamic in the
jury room. It is the push towards unanimity. The issue
here is whether the Constitution requires an instruction
to be given that would encourage a single juror to hold
out and try to avoid reaching a unanimous verdict. The
Court has never held that that is constitutionally
required, and if they did so hold in this case it would
be an extension that is a new rule and would not be
applicable on AEDPA review here.
Second, on the ineffectiveness claim,
Mr. Spisak loses sight of the fact that this was no
run-of-the-mill trial. His crimes were among the most
infamous in Ohio history. At the trial he groomed
himself to look like Adolf Hitler, and on the stand he
celebrated his victims' deaths, spewed his racist
beliefs, and pledged to continue his own brand of
personal warfare against society. In the sentencing
phase, defense counsel reasonably took the only tack
available to him. He used the sheer depravity of his
client's crimes and his disturbing character to tell a
story about his client's mental illness, and he asked
the jury to forego the death penalty for Mr. Spisak
because he is mentally ill and thus, under the
mitigating factor, lacked substantial capacity to
appreciate or conform his conduct to the requirements of
the law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Cordray -
MR. CORDRAY: That is not sufficient -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- in reading that
closing argument, it is disjointed. It goes off on
tangents that have nothing to do with the sentence that
the defendant is getting. I mean, it really is quite a
stream of consciousness. And what's remarkable about it
is at no point did counsel say, give him a life
sentence. He said that either one would be acceptable,
either death or life would be acceptable.
MR. CORDRAY: First of all, I would disagree
with that characterization of the closing. It was not a
perfect closing, but it had three identifiable pieces to
it. The first was, he -- he did go back and
recapitulate the nature of the crimes, something this
Court said in Yarborough is an acceptable defense
strategy. That's the elephant in the room. The jury
heard weeks of testimony about this crime. The
prosecutor was surely going to highlight that. He was
attempting to take this sting out and identify with the
jury that he understood how they would react to the
crimes.
The second piece of the closing -- this is
at petition appendix, approximately 339a to 344a, he
goes into the mitigating factor of mental illness. He
had presented three mental health experts in the
sentencing phase to demonstrate that his client was
mentally ill. He had made a continued argument that
there was a larger jar of not guilty by reason of
insanity that he had not been able to fulfill, even
though he had tried at trial, and that evidence had
ultimately been struck by the trial court, which found
they have not made out a defense of not guilty by reason
of insanity.
But he pursued the same theme here in
sentencing, presenting evidence and saying: We have at
least fulfilled the smaller jar of mental illness,
diminished capacity to intend, and because we are a
humane society our general assembly has made that a
mitigating factor that you should apply here, and you
should not execute someone who has a diminished ability
to intend.
JUSTICE STEVENS: General Cordray, may I -
may I -- you are basically arguing that he was not -
not deficient in performance.
MR. CORDRAY: That's right.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Assume I am persuaded that
there was deficient performance, for all the reasons
your adversary argues, and I am focusing on the
prejudice issue. I think you make a very strong
argument that this guy would have gotten the death
penalty anyway. But what if -- what if the deficiency
had been even worse? Supposing the defense counsel had
got up and said: I wish I could make an argument, but I
really think you ought to give him the death penalty -
just outrageously sided with the prosecutor. Would that
mean that we could still find no prejudice?
MR. CORDRAY: I think in Cronic the Court
said that if there is effectively a structural
breakdown -- I mean, if in fact counsel had gotten up
and argued solely a prosecution argument and not pivoted
at all to mitigating circumstances, perhaps it would be
possible to presume prejudice in that situation. That's
not the situation in this case.
JUSTICE STEVENS: No, I -- I understand
that. But -- so you really are saying the question is
whether Cronic or Strickland controls?
MR. CORDRAY: That's one of the questions.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
MR. CORDRAY: Although in our cert petition
question 2, we also argue that the Sixth Circuit erred
by not deferring to the Ohio Supreme Court's application
of Strickland v. Washington.
And on the prejudice issue, this is
Landrigan. That is the case this Court decided and then
granted, vacated and remanded this case back to the
Sixth Circuit. If you look at the prejudice discussion
in Landrigan -- and I would direct attention to the
quote near the end where the Court says that the court
of appeals panel got it right, and what they said was
that the -- the testimony was chilling. The person in
Landrigan had repeated -- had committed repeated murders
and tried to kill again and again.
The same with Spisak in this case. He had
been unrepentant in the court and in fact had flaunted
his menacing behavior, just as Spisak went on for days
on the stand expressing his white power views and how he
would continue to war if he had the opportunity, if
given the chance.
In Landrigan this Court approved the court
of appeals statement in the end that any further, minor
mitigating evidence that could have been presented in
the wake of that record could not have been helpful;
there is no prejudice. That prejudice holding in
Landrigan I believe controls this case. In fact, this
case may be even a stronger case than Landrigan for no
prejudice.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But does your argument
really depend on any deference to the State Supreme
Court? It seems to me that your argument is just sort
of as a fresh matter there wasn't prejudice here. And
-- and isn't it also true that we really don't know what
the Ohio Supreme Court's basis for its decision was,
whether not competent, incompetence, or lack of
prejudice.
MR. CORDRAY: I would say three things, Your
Honor. First of all, I would agree with Yarborough,
where this Court said that the -- the determination
about deficiency and prejudice is doubly deferential
through the AEDPA lens. We would defer, as Yarborough
said, to reasonable tactical decisions made in closing
argument, but we would be doubly deferential under AEDPA
because we have to hold that the Ohio Supreme Court's
rejection of the ineffectiveness claim was itself
objectively an unreasonable application of Strickland.
So that's one.
Number two, the Ohio Supreme Court did
reject this claim. It cited Strickland v. Washington.
It did not go on in detail.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But we don't know which
prong of Strickland it relied on, do we?
MR. CORDRAY: We don't. But this is not a
case like Rompilla, where the -- where the Court was
faced with a court that had held only on one prong and
had disclaimed any attempt to review under the other
prong. If the court simply gives a summary affirmance
or summary disposition and doesn't specify which prong,
I think the Court has to give deference under both
prongs, because the alternative would be to give
deference under neither prong, which is inconsistent
with the -- the AEDPA statement that we have to did
defer to an adjudication on the merits by a State court.
And so I think that is -- that is fair here. But I
certainly think -
JUSTICE STEVENS: So you'd say a State
supreme court is entitled to more deference if it
doesn't tell us the basis for its decision?
MR. CORDRAY: It -- it may seem a little
odd, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
MR. CORDRAY: If they disclaim a prong, then
I think it's de novo review, and Rompilla did say that.
If they don't disclaim a prong, I think that the Court
has to defer because the alternative is it gives no
deference to summary dispositions, and -- and that has
been the general tenor of courts under AEDPA, is if
there is a question you err on the side of giving
deference. That clearly was Congress's intent in
enacting that statute.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, there are two
extremes. One is no defense whatsoever, Justice
Stevens' hypothetical. The attorney just comes in and
says, kill him, okay? And then there is another, which
is your very eloquent explanation of this attorney's
strategy. If he had done what you did here, we may not
be having this appeal. But at some point you can have a
strategy and execute it so poorly, so incompetently,
that you're providing ineffective assistance of counsel.
You are not accepting that that can occur, you are
saying the minute an attorney says, I had a strategy,
that that is effective counsel, regardless of how that
attorney executed that strategy. That appears to be
your argument.
MR. CORDRAY: We, of course, Your Honor,
don't have subjective testimony from the counsel as to
what his strategy was. But I think it's quite apparent
from the record. He at trial attempted to establish a
defense of not guilty by reason of insanity. He was set
back, he and his trial team, because in the end the
trial judge rejected that defense and struck that
testimony. He renewed his effort at the sentencing
phase by bringing several mental health experts and
having them testify on the stand to show that at least
they had met the lower standard of mental disease or
defect under the Ohio Revised Code.
He then argued, perhaps not as eloquently as
-- as one might, you know, as -- as Justice Jackson once
said, you know, in their bed that night, but he argued
about: Yes, these crimes were brutal. He went on at
some length about that. But these crimes were brutal
and the jury had heard all that and clearly had that in
their minds. He then pivoted to five pages of closing
arguments, in addition to days of presentation on the
subject, to say: We have shown at least mental illness;
it is a mitigating factor; the General Assembly made it
a mitigating factor and we as a humane people should be
proud that we do not execute someone who has substantial
deficiency in ability to intend.
He then went on to handle some rebuttal
points that he was -- he was feeling the heat on from
the prosecutor's presentation. For example, that he had
not necessarily met with these experts before they came
and testified at trial; that he had perhaps shopped for
experts and other matters of that sort; that maybe the
-- the jury was going to hold against him and his
defense team their deficiency as counsel, because they
had made this effort to get not a -- a not guilty by
reason of insanity plea and the judge had knocked that
out.
JUSTICE ALITO: Have you ever heard or read
a defense summation that was more derogatory of the
defendant than the summation here?
MR. CORDRAY: I have not read a great number
of defense summations, but this was derogatory. But
frankly, the bed that was made was made by his client,
who got on the stand for days on end and spewed his
racist propaganda, made it clear that he was not only
unrepentant but was triumphant; that one or more of his
murders were slick, pretty neat; that he celebrated the
killings; that he went out to kill again, that if he had
the opportunity now he would again go out to kill again.
JUSTICE ALITO: But defense counsel -
MR. CORDRAY: That's the context.
JUSTICE ALITO: -- goes so far as to say:
Don't look to him for sympathy because he demands none.
But isn't that exactly what he has to appeal for in
order not to get a death verdict, sympathy based on -
on mental illness, despite the horrific crimes that this
person committed and the things that he said on the
stand.
MR. CORDRAY: No, Your Honor. And I think
again counsel in the context of this proceeding judged,
perhaps rightly, that it was very unlikely this jury was
going to have sympathy for his client. Instead he
appealed to the jury's own sense of humanity and pride:
We have this mitigating factor under the law, we are a
civilized people, we do not execute people who have
substantial diminished ability to intend; and I appeal
to you, you jury, even though I can sense that you are
not feeling sympathy for my client, do what -- what
makes you a humane people, what makes us proud as a
people, and do not give the death penalty to a person
who is sick, demented, twisted, as my client has shown
himself to be here on the stand.
I think it's a coherent strategy. In fact,
I don't see easily how he could have done better. And
as in Landrigan, if he had said, give him sympathy, give
him a life sentence, which was the thrust of the entire
proceedings, I don't think that that created -- that
lack of saying that created any prejudice on this
record, which was very thoroughly established, in part
by his client 's own testimony.
I would also say in Yarborough, on the
deficiency point, this Court said that focusing in on
one particular theme may well be a preferable strategy,
and there has to be broad deference given to closing,
which is only a part, after all, of the entire
sentencing proceeding, in that taking an understated
approach that -- that emphasizes the jury's autonomy.
In Yarborough, if you remember, the defense
counsel did not actually ask specifically in so many
words for a life sentence. The Court said that's not
deficient. He could count on the judge's charge to the
jury. They were going to charge the jury as to how to
handle the evidence. It was the thrust of the whole
proceedings. He presented three mental health experts
to show mental illness and diminished ability to intend.
And he argued that as part of his closing.
I think it was not deficient, and I
certainly think on this record, this stunning record
created in part by his client's crimes, which were
acknowledged and undisputed and there was no factual
dispute about them and their heinousness, and then by
his client's testimony on the stand, which graphically
and at great length reinforced his, again, triumph in
his -- in his warfare against trying to kill as many
black people, Jewish people and gay people as he could
find, and that he would continue that warfare if given
the chance.
I think it's impossible to find that there
is prejudice on this record for the -- for the -- for
the -- even the medium-sized quibbles that are being
raised here 20 years after the fact.
If I -- if I may reserve the rest of my time
for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Benza.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL J. BENZA
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. BENZA: Good morning, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The Sixth Circuit evaluated performance of
trial counsel in this case and found deficient
performance for three primary areas.
First, counsel presented and argued to the
jury nonstatutory aggravating factors as reasons to
impose the death sentence on Mr. Spisak. In Ohio, the
jury is allowed to consider only the statutory
aggravator factors, not nonstatutory factors. The
counsel specifically identified and argued four reasons
to execute Mr. Spisak.
He then proceeded to tell the jury what was
not mitigating evidence in this case, including factors
that have long been accepted as mitigating factors like
performance in prison, adaptive skills and the issue
regarding his family upbringing and childhood.
Finally, the lawyer turned to what he argued
was the only mitigating evidence that they were going to
be arguing, and that was the issue of the client's
mental health. He then -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You say -- you fault
him for not talking about performance in prison,
prospective performance in prison?
MR. BENZA: That is correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It doesn't look like
that's going to be a very strong argument. I mean, he
is still talking about people he wants to kill, and you
are going to get up there and say he might perform well
in prison?
MR. BENZA: Absolutely, Your Honor. In
fact, because it is directly related to the mental
health evidence. Had the lawyer identified the
testimony of the mental health experts, including
Dr. Resnick, who is the court clinic psychiatrist, who
testified that while he has been incarcerated and
receiving treatment his performance and his mental
illness has resided -- that he has gotten better. And
that he is not -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He is on the stand
with a Hitler moustache testifying about what a great
job he did killing these people, and he says he is going
to do it again. I think -- didn't the letter identify
particular people he wanted to kill?
MR. BENZA: That is correct, it did.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the jury is
supposed to believe that this guy is going to do well in
prison?
MR. BENZA: If the -- if the lawyer had
identified for the jury the testimony of the mental
health experts, that would have been the case. This
Court recognized -
JUSTICE SCALIA: These experts said he had
improved?
MR. BENZA: Yes. Dr. Resnick testified -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Before this testimony on
the stand?
MR. BENZA: During the trial, yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wow.
MR. BENZA: That his performance -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That didn't look like
improvement to me.
(Laughter.)
MR. BENZA: Well, that may be, Your Honor,
but that's what the experts testified to. And this was
the court clinic expert who was testifying, who
evaluated him for the not guilty by reason of insanity.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I guess it gets
back to the -- the point, we are talking about what a
jury would think and isn't it possible. You are
suggesting, I think, he -- he should grasp any straws
that are there, this might help. But isn't it possible
that that would have a negative effect on the jury? In
other words, they see this lawyer telling them this guy
is going to do well in prison and the lawyer's
credibility is -- is shot.
MR. BENZA: If there is no evidence to
support that, that would be correct. The problem that
this case presents -- and this is what the Sixth Circuit
found -- that had the lawyer then said, yes, for all of
these reasons they may weigh in favor of death, but here
are the reasons why you should consider life, we would
have a very case than we have here today.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Benza, do you know of
any case where ineffective assistance was found on the
basis of a closing argument alone? General Cordray
pointed out that this lawyer had put on a number of
witnesses to testify to the defendant's mental illness,
and that he did play that theme in the closing.
Do you know of any case where the closing,
not tied to the way the case was presented at trial, was
held sufficient to constitute ineffective assistance of
counsel?
MR. BENZA: No. And that's because this
case is such an outlier. I have been litigating capital
cases since 1993. I have never seen a closing argument
like this.
JUSTICE BREYER: What would you have done?
I mean, I'm -- I'm not experienced in this. But I mean,
I have heard the other side and I have read the
argument. And it makes sense logically to say he has
the worst defendant he has ever seen. He's murdered
lots of people in cold blood. He gets up on the stand
and says: I'm going to kill a lot more. He sounds
totally bonkers. And -- and he says to the jury, I
can't tell you that what he did was not aggravating; it
was terrible. I can't tell you that there's anything
here that should make you feel better about him; there
is nothing. But we are a nation of people who are
humane and our law says don't put a person to death when
he fills with his nuttiness that third prong, which is a
lower standard of insanity than I had to meet. But it's
clearly met and here are the experts; I point to their
testimony, and that's what they said. So be humane.
Now, you think he should have said something
else. What?
MR. BENZA: He -- what he should have done
is what this Court recognized in Penry v. Lynaugh, is
that mental health evidence is a double-edged sword.
The job of the defense lawyer is to explain why the
mental health evidence mitigates the crimes -
JUSTICE BREYER: No, he -- he said why. He
said. He said: We don't execute people who are crazy
and this guy is crazy. He might not be crazy enough to
meet the standard of not guilty by reason of insanity.
He's not crazy enough to meet the standard of
incompetency, but you just heard three experts tell you
that he's seriously crazy. And if you don't -- if you
doubt them, don't doubt your own eyes.
I don't see -- how can I sit -- and we have
courts, two courts who said, yeah, that was okay.
MR. BENZA: Well, we actually don't know
what the State court said about -
JUSTICE BREYER: Or we had at least one
State court that found it okay.
MR. BENZA: For whatever reason we had the
State court decision that affirmed this. We have no
idea why.
The issue is, however, once the lawyer
decided that this was the mitigation strategy that he
was going to present, this was the evidence that he had
available to argue to him, it is the role of the defense
counsel to advocate.
So once the lawyer makes the strategic
decision, I am going to present the closing argument
focused -- based on mental health mitigating evidence,
then the lawyer's job is to stand up and explain to
the -
JUSTICE BREYER: But I agree with all that
you are saying. What I am saying my hard time is here
is why wasn't this advocacy, when indeed a reasonable
decision as to what constituted advocacy in those really
rare circumstances where it was the worst kind of
defendant he had ever seen in his life who deserved no
sympathy?
MR. BENZA: As the amici points out, there
is no strategic reason for this closing. The amici for
Petitioner -- or for Respondent has identified that
there can be no strategic reason to have provided this
closing argument. By any evaluation of the skill of
closing argument this was deficient.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I think -- I think it
was swallowing the worst evidence. It was telling the
jury that was going to think this is a hateful person
who had done hateful things.
I agree with you. I accept all of that, but
even if you feel that way, I thought it was a brilliant
closing argument. You said you've -- you've conducted
many capital cases.
Have you ever conducted a capital case in
which the defendant takes the stand with a Hitler
moustache and says he's glad for what he's done and he
will do it again?
How many cases have you had like that?
MR. BENZA: No. Spisak is the only one like
that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: This was an extraordinary
trial, and it seems to me that the -- that the technique
that -- that counsel used to try to get mercy for this
fellow was -- was the best that could have been done.
MR. BENZA: If that's your conclusion, then
we -- we don't point on the merits of the claim. I beg
to differ -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if -- if the
strategy that Mr. Cordray and Justice Breyer and, to
some extent, Justice Scalia have outlined is a correct
strategy, would you go on to say that the implementation
of that strategy was substandard?
It's rambling, you have to -- in order to
get Mr. Cordray's very succinct explanation, you have to
go through a couple of pages and drift it out, as
Justice Sotomayor said, his argument was fine, and
Justice Breyer -- but that is not the argument we have.
MR. BENZA: That is correct. The lawyer
didn't -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what is the case
that you have -- the best case that you have, maybe a
case in the courts of appeals or the state supreme
courts, where it is said that the implementation of the
strategy was just inept -- totally inept.
I mean, is that what your argument is here?
MR. BENZA: Yes, that the application, that
the way the lawyer delivered the closing, the themes
that he identified, the things that he said, was the
deficiency -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Again, that depends on,
oh, tone of voice, the ambiance of the courtroom.
This -- this is very hard for us -- you know, he was
trying to be folksy with the jury, obviously.
These are things that are very difficult for
us to assess.
MR. BENZA: They are very difficult, but
this case doesn't present those nuances. This case
presents the case where the lawyer stands up at closing
argument -- and the only thing he didn't say that could
have made this worse was Justice Stevens hypothetical of
it's fine by me if you actually execute him.
It's the only thing he didn't say in his
closing that could have possibly made it worse for the
client.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, he actually did
say that.
MR. BENZA: Not in those words.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but, pretty much,
he said, no one's going to fault you if you impose the
death sentence.
MR. BENZA: And we will be proud of you,
whichever you do. Only those very words, I would like
you to execute him as well, did not escape his lips.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But, I mean, it
seems to me that you are imposing a strategic rule, and
the counsel obviously made a decision -- or the record
may reflect that the type of advocacy that you are
telling us he has to have.
Here's why you should give this guy
sympathy. Here's why. Here's -- he's a good guy. I
mean, there is -- even standing at that podium, there is
a different strategy that people sometimes employ, which
is sort of the understated -- you know, well, he did
some terrible things, don't -- I'm not asking for
sympathy for these things, but -- you know, we are very
proud of the fact that we don't execute -- you know, it
seems to me that this disagreement is over different
styles of advocacy.
And I don't know how to -- particularly in a
case where you don't have much to work with, I don't
know how to make a judgment that his choice was worse
than the other.
MR. BENZA: But that's what we do under
Strickland. The court recognizes, in Strickland
analysis, that there are multiple ways that various
lawyers will try the same case; all of which can be
effective.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You just told me that,
under Strickland, under anything, there has been no case
in which there has been a decision for the defendant,
based on the inadequacy of the closing argument alone.
So you are asking us to take a new tact and
inviting arguments focused exclusively on the closing
argument, to see if it meets the Strickland standard.
MR. BENZA: Yes, but this court has already
recognized that the Sixth Amendment applies, the right
to counsel applies at closing argument.
In Yarborough v. Gentry, at page 5 of this
Court's opinion, the Court specifically stated that the
right to effective assistance extends to closing
argument.
So this is not a redevelopment or an
expansion of Strickland. It's simply an application of
the Strickland analysis, the particular facts of this
case before the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why -- why isn't it the
Strickland analysis that you read the charge in the
context of the case that was presented at trial, and,
here, the case was.
The only thing going for the defendant were
the witnesses to his mental illness and whether,
eloquently or not, that theme was played to the jury.
This is a mentally ill man.
MR. BENZA: That's -- that's correct, and
that's the theme that defense counsel said he was going
to implement at the closing. What -- the failure of the
lawyer was to adequately and effectively make that
closing to the jury.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, he talked about
nothing else. And I understand -- look, I am not an
expert. I haven't argued these things to juries, and I
recognize some lawyers tell me, okay, this was very
rambling. I didn't think it was rambling.
I thought he was trying to spend a lot of
time explaining away to the jury some prosecutorial
remark, that you shouldn't pay attention to the expert
because you, yourself, the lawyer, didn't talk to them
enough.
And so you describe that for a couple of
pages and why it was irrelevant, and the reason he
talked about the -- I thought, the reason he talked
about the -- how you will feel when you go out of here,
is because he recognizes this is the most sensational
case in this community, ever, and all your neighbors are
going to congratulate you.
But what you are doing here is you are
applying a standard, and you are proud to be an
American, and that standard, as an American, is a humane
standard that requires you to not give the death penalty
when the man's insane.
Now, I agree that he repeated that 7 or 8 or
9 or 10 times, but it was the same point over and over.
And how can I -- since there is a lower court that
seemed to find this adequate, how can I sit here and say
it wasn't?
MR. BENZA: Well, it -- first, as to the
question of whether or not the lower court found it
adequate, we have no idea, again, what the Ohio Supreme
Court determined as to question of deficient
performances or to prejudice or to strategy.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many -- how many
issues were before the Ohio Supreme Court?
MR. BENZA: There were 67 assignments of
error raised to the Ohio Supreme Court. This is the
only case on direct appeal, where the Ohio Supreme Court
issued a procuring of.
JUSTICE BREYER: Didn't -- didn't they cite
Strickland?
MR. BENZA: They did cite Strickland, along
with 49 other claims.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I guess then they
concede the argument.
MR. BENZA: They dismissed this claim and -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why do we have no idea
then? If they cited Strickland, why do we have no idea
what they --
MR. BENZA: We have no idea whether they
decided that there was deficient performance, but no
prejudice -- that there was, in fact, deficient
performance, but no prejudice, that this was not
deficient because it was reasonable strategy.
It is also possible that the lower courts
were misapplying, as this Court recognized in Michael
Williams' case, that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So I think that we have to
defer to all of those, right?
MR. BENZA: I'm sorry?
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think, if they could have
been relying on any of those, we would have to defer to
all, wouldn't we?
MR. BENZA: Unless we -
JUSTICE SCALIA: One-by-one, I mean -
MR. BENZA: If we assume that they were then
applying the Lockhart v. Fretwell standard as to the
question of prejudice, then it would clearly be contrary
to Strickland, to have applied that standard of review
for prejudice.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would we assume that?
MR. BENZA: Well, because we don't know what
the Supreme Court actually did.
JUSTICE SCALIA: When we -- when you don't
know what a lower court has done, the rule is you assume
the best, not the worst. Isn't that the standard rule
of review?
MR. BENZA: That is.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You, very often, don't know
on what basis the lower court took action. You assume
it was a lawful basis.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's the rule on direct
appeal, of course, not on collateral.
MR. BENZA: That is the rule on direct
appeal. It is also the implication of applying AEDPA.
The problem that you have in that is, when you try to
apply AEDPA to this particular claim, you don't know how
the state court, in fact, decided this case.
And, therefore, you don't know whether or
not you are going to give the AEDPA deference to the
decision that there was no deficient performance, that
there was no prejudice.
JUSTICE BREYER: How -- how does that work?
Certainly, it's a fairly common thing, that the
defendant will make -- let's say, 20 arguments, maybe he
would even number them.
And it's fairly common to find a court of
appeals in a state that says, as to argument number 17,
and then they characterize it, we reject that argument.
MR. BENZA: That is true.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, that -- that happens
all the time.
MR. BENZA: That is correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: And, now, it's very, very
common that, in making that argument, there could be
some good grounds for rejecting it, and there could be
some bad grounds for rejecting it.
So would we send -- do we send every case
like that back, to say, I want to know if you rejected
it for a good reason or a bad reason?
MR. BENZA: I would think, no, that you
don't send it back, but what happens -
JUSTICE BREYER: What we do is we assume
they did it for a bad reason?
MR. BENZA: I would -- I think the issue
then would become that, when a state court chooses to
summarily deny, without evaluation, an explanation of
the merits of the claim, that, when it comes to habeas
review, the constraints of AEDPA are lifted.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the Ohio Supreme
Court, faced with 67 issues, would have to write at
least a per curiam opinion on each of the 67 to insulate
itself against being overturned on federal habeas?
MR. BENZA: Not insulate from overturning,
but to gain the benefit of 2254(d)'s restrictive reviews
of habeas.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Which insulates it from
being overturned.
MR. BENZA: If, in fact, it is not contrary
to our unreasonable application, it would be insulated
or -
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any authority for
that? Because, I mean, I'm not positive of this one,
but I -- I do think hearing it that suddenly habeas
opinions and district court opinions would grow by an
order of magnitude, because it's very common to see
arguments rejected summarily.
MR. BENZA: That is correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, is there any authority
for the proposition that if they reject it summarily,
that then we don't assume they are right, but rather we
assume they are wrong?
MR. BENZA: No, this Court has never
addressed how to apply 2254(d) to a summary decision.
In Knowles v. Mirzayance, the Court noted that this was
in fact an issue and reserved that for another day.
In Early v. Packer, this Court recognized,
though, however, that AEDPA constraints are looking at
not just at the outcome of the lower court's -- the
State court's decisions, but the reasoning behind it,
because if you are going to have an unreasonable
application of -- of a binding law from this court, the
lower courts have to be able to apply it and explain,
how did we apply it? Otherwise every decision of the
State court would be insulated from Federal habeas
review, making the writ available but unavailable.
Because no decision would therefore ever be unreasonable
if the standard is for a district court judge to say:
Can I imagine a reasonable way for the State court to
have reached this result? I have; I'm a reasonable
judge; the State court must have done what I have done;
therefore, the review is limited, and the writ -- and
the writ is denied.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if you're -- if
you're right about that issue on which we haven't had a
decision yet, then we would look at prejudice on our
own, without deference to the State court findings?
MR. BENZA: It would review -- it would
revert to pre-AEDPA habeas review to the standards, and
with review of the State court decision but with de novo
application in the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that is not what AEDPA
says. AEDPA says that we have to give deference unless
it is an unreasonable application of Supreme Court law.
The burden is on the appealing defendant to show that it
was an unreasonable application. In case of doubt, he
loses.
Now, AEDPA could have been written
differently. It could have been written the way you
want. The Supreme Court shall evaluate the
reasonableness of the Supreme Court opinion. It isn't
written that way. It says the burden is on you to show
that this was an unreasonable application of Supreme
Court law. And where there is a summary disposition,
that's a hard road aho.
MR. BENZA: I would submit it is impossible.
If the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's -- it's not
impossible. I think there are cases where -- where
relying on prior Supreme Court law doesn't get you
there. It's not impossible.
MR. BENZA: I would -- I would beg to
differ. I would think that if the summary disposition
is going to be held to that standard of an unreasonable
application where we have no indication of how the State
courts actually applied the law, it would have to be the
extreme outlier that would demonstrate that that was an
unreasonable -
JUSTICE SCALIA: So we should revise the
statute and it should not say unreasonable application
of Supreme Court law?
MR. BENZA: It -- it does not require a
revision.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why doesn't it?
MR. BENZA: It simply requires the Court to
say that when you have summary disposition, that when
evaluating the State claim, the State court decision is
given the deference that it is due, and that is that we
simply cannot determine whether or not it properly
applied Federal law, and therefore, it does not get the
safe harbor of AEDPA evaluation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not how the -
that's not how the statute reads.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why wouldn't you do
that as well, then, even a fortiori, where I'm just an
appeals court judge and I get a district court opinion?
Most common thing in the world, summary judgment denied,
motion denied, this denied, denied, denied. And if I'm
going to start doing this for State cases, wouldn't I
also have to do it for Federal cases whenever a Federal
judge doesn't give all his reasons, which is the most
common thing in the world?
MR. BENZA: The Court does that when it
reviews those quarters constrained by what actually
happened in the lower court.
JUSTICE BREYER: We did? I mean, I've
reviewed thousands and thousands of them and I've always
thought that a trial judge doesn't have to spell out all
his reasons. And the question is really, given the
circumstance, can we say that he acted contrary to law?
MR. BENZA: And that is -
JUSTICE BREYER: If it's trial-based, you
look at what the facts are that he might have taken.
MR. BENZA: And that would be the evaluation
that would continue on in habeas review of these claims,
is evaluating the State court decision without, though,
simply saying, well, we're going to -- and this is what
happens in the lower courts. When you have these
summary decisions in 2254(d) analysis, those circuits
that have applied this say, what we will imagine a way
in which the State court could have reasonably applied
this law to reach this result, and therefore, since that
is a reasonable way, because of course we as Article 3
judges have reasonably come up with that, it must be
reasonable, it's not an unreasonable application, and
the writ is denied.
The problem that we face is when you look at
that in comparison to cases like Wiggins and Rompilla
where the State courts affirmatively denied applying
Federal standards, you get a different level of review.
And so you end up encouraging State courts in these
types of cases to simply issue postcard denials: Appeal
denied. Federal courts, you figure it out.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I think that assumes
that the State courts are -- what the Supreme Court of
Ohio and all the other State supreme courts are doing is
waiving briefs for Federal habeas courts.
MR. BENZA: I don't think -
JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that's what
AEDPA was intended to do?
MR. BENZA: I think AEDPA was designed that
when the State courts, in fact, are doing their jobs
under the Constitution to protect defendants' rights to
review their claim, then they should receive the
protections of AEDPA. What that means for deferential
review -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not what it says.
That's not what it says. It says that you have to show
that it is an unreasonable application of Supreme Court
law. That's what it says.
MR. BENZA: It does. And as this Court has
explained, what happens in habeas is that the Federal,
the district courts and the circuit courts have to
evaluate the claim and determine whether or not there
was an unreasonable application. It still falls to the
district court and the circuit court to -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And if they can't, you
lose. Because that's the way the statute reads.
MR. BENZA: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You want to say if they
can't, we have a new statute. But we don't. The burden
on you is to show that it's an unreasonable application.
If you tell me we can't tell, you lose.
MR. BENZA: That's the other alternative is
that then the statute doesn't apply, which as this Court
has recognized, when it comes to applying AEDPA, the
side that is left untouched regarding that is the issue
of the suspension of the writ.
JUSTICE BREYER: So you are saying -- I
mean, this is very helpful to me for a variety of
reasons, but is -- in your view, the correct role of the
habeas judge vis-à-vis the State judge there is the same
as the Federal appellate judge vis-à-vis the district
judge? That is, I'm thinking of a district judge makes
a finding, doesn't fully explain it. Now, I would think
it would be unlawful if it's an unreasonable application
of a Supreme Court case. And I know how to review that.
I mean, I -- I know how to review it, I think.
Okay. So you are saying however I do that,
I should do the same thing and the -- but you don't -
you don't think there is a more relaxed standard than
that? You think that's basically the standard?
MR. BENZA: It's still the same standard.
JUSTICE BREYER: Same -- but if they had
made an explicit finding, then maybe it would be a
tougher standard.
MR. BENZA: That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right.
MR. BENZA: The standards provided for in
AEDPA are there to protect the State court judgments
when they have done their job, when they explained their
rationale and applied the Federal law. If you see these
postcard denials -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Benza, you might want
to use what time is remaining to deal with the other
issue, which we haven't talked about at all.
MR. BENZA: If I may, if I'm turning -- if
there are no further questions on the effect, I will
turn to the Mills issue.
The -- the question in front of the Sixth
Circuit was whether or not the totality of the jury
instructions in this case were such that they violated
Mills' directive that an individual jurist's
determination of a mitigating factor's existence could
not be precluded from being considered by the injection
of that -- of those factors by the other 11 jurors.
What you have in this particular case is the
totality of the jury instructions were such that a
reasonable understanding of the instruction was that the
jury had to be unanimous as to the understanding and the
existence of a mitigating factor before it could even be
considered.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what is your answer to
the first question that Justice Sotomayor asked? Half
of you say that -- that the State court's decision was
contrary to or involved an unreasonable application of
clearly-established Federal laws determined by the
Supreme Court of the United States, i.e., Mills v.
Maryland, when Mills v. Maryland hadn't been decided.
MR. BENZA: In Terry Williams v. Taylor,
this Court recognized in the opinion authored by Justice
O'Connor that the issue for contrary to or unreasonable
application is going to be governed by the
application of Teague.
JUSTICE ALITO: And are there -- are there
not quite a few instances of contrary statements in our
opinions?
MR. BENZA: As to the application of Mills?
Or -
JUSTICE ALITO: As to the -- as to the time
when the -- the law has to be clearly established by a
decision in that court.
MR. BENZA: No, this Court has maintained
that the issue regarding the application of -- of
controlling established -- what -- clearly established
law by this Court is going to be determined by Teague,
and Teague determines that Mills v. Maryland decision
applies to this claim. In -- it was adjudicated on the
merits in State court.
Now there is another -- underlying this is
another AEDPA concern, is how does the Federal -- or the
State court adjudicate the constitutional claim since
Mills had not been presented. It decided the merits of
the claim were -- were to be rejected but it did not
decide the case under Mills v. Maryland because of
course Mills had not been decided and we know from this
Court's decision in the Banks case that Mills was a new
law.
JUSTICE ALITO: This Court has not said that
clearly established Federal law refers to this Court's
decision as of the time of the relevant State court
decision.
MR. BENZA: That this Court has said, but
this Court has also said that the decision to that
question is based on the decision of Teague. If a case
applies to the Court based on Teague, then it will apply
to the merits of this particular claim. And what the
circuit found -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, I don't understand
that, I don't understand that. Do you want to go around
that again?
MR. BENZA: This Court has held that the
decision of whether a -- when a case is going to be
clearly established for review in habeas is going to be
based on Teague. That was the opinion by Justice
O'Connor concurring in the judgment in Terry Williams,
that the decision for clearly established is going to be
based on the decision of the applicability of Teague.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Does Teague say anything
about time?
MR. BENZA: Teague says that the decision
for application of a newly established law or a new
established constitutional rule is predicated on the
denial of direct appeal, which in this case would be the
cert denied by this Court of the direct appeal of the
case, which happened in 1989, a year after the decision
in Mills was handed down.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, the Mills
opinion has one of those concluding paragraphs at the
end that sort of sums everything up, and it says that we
conclude there is a substantial probability that
reasonable jurors upon receiving the judge's
instructions in this case and in attempting to complete
the verdict form as instructed may have thought they
were precluded from considering any mitigating evidence
unless all 12 jurors agreed on the existence of a
particular such circumstance.
MR. BENZA: That is correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now how is that
clearly established law that your claim is -- is
contrary to Mills?
MR. BENZA: Because in -- in our case every
jury instruction that was given to the jury told them
that they had to be unanimous, including the specific
instruction -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That is on death or
nondeath, not on whether a particular mitigating
circumstance exists.
MR. BENZA: Actually they -- they were told
that, because they were also told that that included
their decisions as to all disputes of fact. The
existence of a mitigating factor is of course a question
of fact. So the jury was in fact specifically
instructed to be unanimous to every decision that they
made including resolving disputes of fact. They were
told by both lawyers for the defense and lawyers for the
prosecution that the first question they had to answer
when they got into the jury room was to the existence of
mitigating factors.
If they -- if they reasonably understood
that they had to be unanimous as to that fact they would
have rejected the mitigating factors, even if 11 of them
had agreed that the mental health evidence in this case
was a mitigating factor. And when -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does that work? The
instruction was all 12 must agree that the aggravators
outweigh the mitigators before death is imposed.
MR. BENZA: That's correct, as to that
instruction. But the existence of the mitigator was the
predicate question that the jury would have to answer
and our position is that they also would have had to be
unanimous per the instruction.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Where -- where is that in
the instructions? I -- I didn't realize that that's
what you are counting on. Where is it?
MR. BENZA: They appear at -- let's see.
Just a moment -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's in your brief, I
assume.
MR. BENZA: It is in my brief, Your Honor,
and I've lost my appendix cite to it but the -- oh, I'm
sorry. It's at petition appendix page 326: It is your
duty to carefully weigh the evidence, to decide all
disputed questions of fact, to apply the instructions of
court to your findings and to render your verdict
accordingly.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Read it again?
MR. BENZA: At page -- the petition appendix
page 326. "It is your duty to carefully weigh the
evidence. To decide all disputed questions of fact, to
apply the instructions of the Court to your findings and
to render your verdict accordingly."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where does that say
what your summary was earlier, that they -
MR. BENZA: That the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- can't consider a
mitigating circumstance unless they unanimously agree
about it.
JUSTICE SCALIA: New? New?
MR. BENZA: Those instructions are given and
every reference to the jury is in a collective you. And
there -- that instruction tells the jury that they must
-- a reasonable understanding of that instruction is
that the jury would understand that they had to
unanimously agreed as to the existence of the mitigating
factors.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that in your brief, too?
I just don't remember it from your brief.
MR. BENZA: I believe it is, Your Honor, I
don't at the -- the page cite to it. It is at petition
appendix page 326.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, doesn't every
court tell them it's their duty to decide disputed
questions of fact?
MR. BENZA: That is correct.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you think that
includes within it the idea that they -- they cannot
consider a mitigating circumstance unless they all 12
agree on it?
MR. BENZA: Yes, that then would violate
Mills. That's the error in this instruction.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay, I just -
MR. BENZA: That's the question in Mills.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I want to make sure
I have got your Mills argument.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It is that the
sentence that says "it's your duty to did decide all
disputed questions of fact is the same as saying they
are instructed that they cannot consider a mitigating
circumstance unless they are unanimous?
MR. BENZA: When considered in totality,
yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Thank you,
counsel.
Mr. Cordray, you have ten minutes remaining.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. RICHARD CORDRAY
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. CORDRAY: Thank you, Your Honor.
On the Mills instruction, it -- it's clear,
Mills was not decided at the time the Ohio Supreme Court
rendered its decision. It was decided before this Court
denied direct review.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that an argument
you made before this Court?
MR. CORDRAY: I beg your pardon.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is this an argument
that you've made before this Court in your brief, that
we shouldn't consider whether Mills is the controlling
standard because Mills came after?
MR. CORDRAY: No. Nor am I making it now.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.
MR. CORDRAY: I am simply summarizing a
response to Justice Sotomayor's question. But this
Court -- on -- on Teague, in Beard v Banks determined
that Mills itself expressed a new rule and expressed
some doubt as to whether that rule itself was even clear
until McKoy v. North Carolina was decided in 1990, which
was to finality in this case. But the -- the jury
instruction issue is entirely knocked out by the fact
that this case is an extension of Mills that goes beyond
anything this Court has ever held in the jury
instruction context. It is an extension of Mills that
has been rejected by the majority of circuits to
consider it, even today 20 years later, and it couldn't
possibly be understood to be clearly established law.
The reference to page 326a and the jury
instructions, that's quite distinct from the passage
where the jury was told specifically they have to be
unanimous only on the ultimate question, whether
aggravators outweigh mitigators. This was very
different from the jury form in Mills which was itself
was somewhat cryptic and -- and later was explained
further in McKoy.
If I could return then to the
ineffectiveness issues. Counsel argued that there was
deficiency on a couple of different grounds. First of
all, that -- that defense counsel should have argued
about family background and performance in prison. The
family background was uncontested; it was humdrum; there
was nothing special there. Performance in prison was an
issue that was raised at trial. The prosecutor read to
Spisak on the stand a letter he had written from prison.
I am not going to foul the record with his specific
verbiage but it was after a card game in which he had
gotten into a fight with inmates and said he would like
to kill them. When that was read to Spisak on the stand
his response was to say "Heil, Hitler" and give the Nazi
salute to the jury.
So the notion that we should be referring
back to his performance in prison and that somehow would
have helped mitigate the jury's consideration of the
death sentence to me is -- is fanciful.
In terms of the argument that defense
counsel here argued, nonstatutory aggravators, that is a
characterization that I don't think is accurate and it's
not accurate as a matter of Ohio law. In our reply
brief we cited State v. Hancock which indicates that the
nature and circumstances of crimes are always relevant
in determining whether the aggravators outweigh the
mitigators, and in fact the main aggravator here was
that Mr. Spisak engaged in a course of conduct that
involved the purposeful killing of more than one person
-- two or more persons, or the attempt to kill two or
more persons which he had done here and which certainly
was going to be and was, in fact, in fact if you read
the prosecutor's closing, the heart and soul of the
prosecutor's closing.
As to whether the mental health presentation
was, quote, "not strong enough," obviously it wasn't
strong enough in the end to sway the jury. But you
cannot judge by hindsight, this Court has said it again
and again, counsel's performance. The court said that
in Strickland v. Washington itself, emphasized that
tremendously in rejecting the deficiency claim in that
case. And then in Yarborough as applied to closing
arguments, the Court said very specifically we have to
be doubly deferential to -- to strategic decisions made
at closing, even if we might had made them differently
or might have executed them somewhat differently, and
particularly through the AEDPA lens.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- what is your
answer to your friend's explanation that it's hard to
defer when they don't even say anything?
MR. CORDRAY: I think that we have to read
the statute. The statute -- the AEDPA statute, 2254
says we defer to what? We defer to an adjudication by
the State court on the merits. There is no suggestion
here that this adjudication was on some procedural
grounds or default grounds. It was a merits
adjudication. It wasn't a lengthy, eloquent, you know,
long explained adjudication, but it was an adjudication
on the merits and deference should be given.
The alternative is that if they don't
explain which prong they are using that you defer to
nothing, and that seems to be not consistent with what
Congress clearly intended under AEDPA, nor is it
consistent with the language of the statute.
The claim was made that the deference only
applies when the State court, quote, "has done its job."
Under the statute the job is to adjudicate a claim on
the merits, not to provide a lengthy discourse in doing
so. As to the prejudice point which I think is finally
decisive and was the basis on which this Court GVR'd
in -- in Landrigan, this is Landrigan -
JUSTICE STEVENS: Can we just go back to
that one point for a minute.
MR. CORDRAY: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would your deference be
exactly the same if, instead of listing all 47 claims or
so, they simply entered a one-line order saying,
"Affirmed"?
MR. CORDRAY: I believe, Your Honor, under
the statute, it would be the same, although here they
did more than that -- you know, they cited Strickland.
We have to assume they applied Strickland.
And, as for the prejudice claim, we have
findings from the Ohio Supreme Court that, I think, bear
on the prejudice claim. In its decision -- this is
309(a) through 311(a) of the appendix -
JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me -- let me go back
to the question.
MR. CORDRAY: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you think they are
entitled to more deference because they did cite
Strickland if they -- than if they did cite nothing?
MR. CORDRAY: I think that the Ohio Supreme
Court is entitled to deference because it adjudicated a
claim on the merits, so -
JUSTICE STEVENS: So it would be exactly the
same deference whether they say it's Strickland or not.
MR. CORDRAY: I would agree with that.
However, if the Court was inclined to make gradation -
this is a gradation beyond simply an unexplained order.
Yes.
As to prejudice, the Ohio Supreme Court at
309(a) through 311(a) itself independently reweighed the
aggravating factors against the mitigating factors,
which is something the Ohio Supreme Court does under
Ohio law.
There had been some issues of merger of some
of the aggravating circumstances. On direct appeal,
they had dealt with those issues, and then they went
back and reweighed, and they found that, on this record,
the aggravating factors heavily -- lie heavily and
beyond a reasonable doubt to outweigh the mitigating
factors.
That is, in fact, the same kind of
determination that the Court would make in trying to
determine if there was prejudice here.
As to the implementation of the strategy
here, it is coherent in understanding what counsel was
trying to do. Was it a bit rambling? Perhaps.
You know, were there -- were there side
issues that he tried to take up, which he thought went
to his credibility with the jury and the credibility of
the mental illness defense with the jury? Perhaps.
But the strategy was twofold. It was to
reference the crimes, make it clear to the jury he
understood the nature -- the horrific nature of the
crimes, as he thought the jury understood it, and then
pivot to the mental illness -- mental disease or defect
prong as the mitigator that the -- that the jury should
apply in not giving the death penalty in this case.
I think the strategy here was coherent. I'm
not sure what else defense counsel could have done in
this case, where his client had both committed these
horrific crimes, undisputed, and then had reveled in
them, in his flamboyant testimony from the stand.
In the context of that and given the doubly
deferential lens this Court has laid out in Yarborough,
I think that there is neither deficiency, nor could
there be prejudice on this record.
If there are no further questions, Your
Honor, thank you for your time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General
Cordray; Mr. Benza.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 12:06 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
18:10 38:16,17,22 anyway 11:9 34:11 35:4 assistance 15:15
40:5 42:4,5,9 apparent 15:23 41:18 43:5 23:21 24:3
59:8 affirmance 14:8 33:7 35:2,4 appreciate 9:6 34:10,15,19,24
41:18 57:20 approved 12:22 49:18 56:19
aggravating appeals 12:12 areas 20:16 54:17
20:21 54:14 1:14 31:23 53:14,16 32:3
57:10 application 12:4 15:20 20:10 a.m 1:13 3:2
50:19 31:5 36:24 24:7,12 26:6 B
ALITO 17:7,19 38:20 39:2,14 28:3,4,12 29:1 12:8 16:1 23:5
57:6 42:3 45:2,14 42:13,19 43:1 31:3 33:14 56:9,24 57:22
55:15,17 allowed 20:20 45:13,17,23 51:14,25 52:7 53:17,18
alternative 47:11 52:10 54:7 bad 36:1,4,8
Amendment 44:6 55:4 55:5 26:7 30:18
29:19 American 32:15 applies 30:23,24 Article 41:12 47:7
32:15 46:2,20 56:3 asked 9:2 45:3 basically 11:1
8:15 13:17 31:6,9 41:8 37:23 43:4 16:17 14:19 23:22
14:13 answer 45:2 46:20 49:23 assess 28:22 34:24,25 56:7
black 19:24 30:16 31:7,10 12:9 20:14 closing 9:11,19
3:7 20:11 bonkers 24:16 33:7 34:1 35:7 44:15 46:22 13:18 16:14
brand 8:22 36:2 38:20 circuits 4:16 19:3,15 23:22
13:2 22:8 25:8,20 26:10 48:6 49:2 circumstance 29:5 30:18,20
56:16 27:21 28:4 52:22,24 55:4 40:24 48:1,12 30:24 31:2,18
35:23 36:7 cases 7:21 24:7 5:16,17 11:19 Code 16:7
22:6 37:1,8 40:8,20 27:5,10 39:8 26:14 54:12 coherent 18:17
41:1 43:8,23 40:13,14 41:17 57:20 58:5,18
23:13,20 44:2 41:21 cite 33:9,11 cold 24:14
25:3,18 brief 49:17,19 celebrated 8:21 49:20 50:24 collateral 35:2
26:17 50:21,22 52:11 17:16 57:3,4 collective 50:15
28:5 54:11 cert 3:23 12:2 cited 13:25 Columbus 1:15
29:9 briefs 42:1 47:14 33:17 54:11 come 41:13
30:10,22 brilliant 27:3 certainly 14:16 56:18 comes 15:9
32:23 bringing 16:4 19:17 35:13 civilized 18:9 36:12 43:5
broad 19:3 54:18 claim 8:16 13:21 commanded
Brooks 6:16 Chagrin 1:17 13:25 27:18 3:17
35:3,19 brutal 16:11,12 chance 12:21 33:15 35:6 committed
36:5,9 burden 38:19 20:1 36:12 40:1 12:14 18:1
37:7 39:1 42:25 character 9:1 42:8,18 46:2,6 58:20
38:12 characterizati... 46:8,21 48:4 common 5:10
C 9:19 54:9 55:3 56:2,4,20 35:13,16,24
41:3 C 2:1 3:1 characterize 56:22 57:7 37:5 40:11,16
capacity 9:5 35:18 claims 33:12 community
44:1,3 10:20 charge 5:15 6:23 41:4 56:13 32:11
45:9 capital 24:6 27:5 19:10,11 31:9 clear 17:14 52:3 comparison
46:17 27:6 Chief 3:3,8 20:8 52:20 58:12 41:17
48:2,6 card 53:23 20:12 21:8,12 clearly 15:5 competent
49:7,15 carefully 49:22 22:1,7 23:4 16:13 24:24 13:11
50:2,9 50:3 29:16 38:8 34:12 45:20,24 complete 47:22
51:4 Carolina 52:21 47:17 48:3,10 46:14 47:3,6 concede 33:14
case 3:4,10 4:18 50:7,10 51:1,5 48:4 53:4 concern 46:5
5:2,6 6:10,23 51:11,13,15,22 55:25 conclude 47:20
12:7,8,16 13:2 55:10 59:4 4:9,14 45:6 47:18
24:19 20:15,25 22:12 chilling 12:13 18:6,12,15,24 27:17
contrary 3:13 counsel's 55:1 52:11,18,25 deadlock 6:25
36:23 40:24 counting 49:14 55:16 56:3,7 dealt 57:21
controlling 53:15 58:24 9:17 11:8,12
conundrum 54:15 25:17,17 28:9 32:16 48:10
6:2 Cordray 1:15 2:6 3:9,16,24 37:22 39:15 58:17
23:18 3:20 4:7 5:1,14 6:2,7,8,15,16 41:24,25 42:1 decide 46:9
51:7,18 5:23 6:1 7:2 7:7,13,14,22 42:6,17,17 49:22 50:4
53:3 8:6 9:8,9,18 8:7,12 9:23 court's 3:12,22 51:2,16
11:25 12:2 12:7,11,11,17 13:10,20 31:1 12:7 26:1
45:1 14:23 15:21 13:15,24 14:5 46:11,14 45:8 46:7,10
17:10,20 18:3 14:6,8,10,14 crazy 25:9,10,10 52:4,5,21
51:24,25 52:2 19:9 20:13 created 18:21,22 4:6,24 13:10
56:1 55:13 56:11,16 23:2 25:4,19 credibility 23:12 26:6,13 29:18
Cordray's 28:1 30:22 31:1 crime 9:25 37:13,23 38:1
23:14 27:22 34:17,19,24 16:11,12 17:25 46:1,11,15,16
35:22 37:7 36:15 37:4,12 54:12 58:12,14 47:6,7,10,15
47:12 44:1 48:2 49:7 38:2,3,5,11,14 Cronic 11:15,24 56:22
8:12 counsel 8:24 39:3,9,20,24 curiam 36:16 3:17
15:7,15,18,22 40:19 41:5,10 5:18 37:19 41:8
37:17 19:8 20:15,17 42:20,20 43:4 D decisive 56:7
31:10 26:4 27:15 45:7,10,21,22 Davis 6:19 defect 16:7
58:23 29:18 30:24 45:25 46:3,6 day 37:15 58:15
19:25 47:17 51:23 46:20 47:1,14 16:15 17:13 17:9 24:13
27:7 denied 3:18,23 disagreement E 42:18
31:12 38:7 40:11,12 30:4 E 2:1 3:1,1 evaluated 20:14
38:19 40:12,12,12 disclaim 14:23 earlier 50:8 23:3
deny 36:11 discourse 56:5 effect 23:9 44:12 evaluation
10:15 depends 28:17 disease 16:6 30:14 31:2 40:5 41:3
15:8,25 depravity 8:25 58:15 effectively 5:24 evidence 10:13
17:3,8,11 derogatory 17:8 disjointed 9:11 11:16 31:19 10:18 12:24
19:7 17:11 dismissed 33:15 effort 16:3 17:4 19:12 20:25
26:3 describe 32:6 disposition 14:9 Eighth 4:16 6:19 21:5,19 23:13
48:20 deserved 26:15 39:3,12,25 either 7:25 9:16 25:5,7 26:2,7
54:7 designed 42:5 dispositions 9:17 26:24 47:24
despite 17:25 15:2 elephant 9:24 49:2,22 50:4
15:1 determination disputed 49:23 55:19 56:13 57:8
55:12 13:15 44:18 50:4 51:2,17 eloquently 16:8 example 16:23
58:2 disputes 48:15 31:14 exclusively
42:18 58:3 dissent 6:10 55:2 execute 10:23
19:3 determined 5:3 dissented 6:9 emphasizes 19:6 15:14 16:19
38:11,17 5:6 33:1 45:6 distinct 4:18 5:2 employ 29:24 18:9 20:23
55:21 45:25 52:18 53:6 enacting 15:6 25:9 29:3,15
57:3,6 determines 46:1 district 37:4 encourage 8:10 30:3
determining 38:2 40:10 encouraging executed 15:19
42:9 differ 27:19 43:13 engaged 54:15 exist 4:5
58:24 39:12 disturbing 9:1 entered 56:14 existence 44:18
16:20 41:19 53:10,15 42:6 56:5 entirely 52:23 50:19
19:1 differently double-edged entitled 14:18 exists 48:12
53:15 38:23 55:7,8 25:5 57:3,6 expansion 31:5
58:25 difficult 28:21 doubly 13:16,19 err 15:4 experienced
20:15 diminished doubt 25:15,15 error 33:6 51:10 expert 23:2
33:1,20 10:20,23 18:10 38:20 52:20 escape 29:15 31:23 32:3
35:10 19:14 57:24 ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 experts 10:8
39:16 57:20 51:2,16 45:24 46:14 explain 25:6
disagree 9:18 evaluate 38:24 explained 42:16
53:11 57:23,25 48:21 53:15 23:22 59:4 29:22 35:25
factor's 44:18 five 16:14 generally 4:1 36:4
28:1 failure 5:22 flaunted 12:17 GINSBURG governed 45:12
55:11 31:18 focused 26:7 5:14,25 6:22 gradation 57:11
falls 1:17 42:19 19:1 33:3 36:14 graphically
53:17,18 footnote 6:11 give 6:24 9:15 grasp 23:7
8:14 fault 21:8 29:11 47:23 53:10 29:21 32:16 groomed 8:19
53:1 favor 23:17 fortiori 40:9 35:9 38:17 grounds 35:25
40:14 41:19,22 20:15 23:16,21 6:23 8:10 grow 37:4
8:17 fellow 27:16 friend's 55:11 go 4:12,22 7:8
12:17 Fifth 4:16 front 44:14 8:3 9:21 14:1 H
18:17 fight 53:24 fulfill 10:12 17:18 27:23 habeas 36:12,17
21:18 figure 3:16 fulfilled 10:19 28:2 32:9 36:20 37:3,24
33:21 41:22 fully 43:14 46:24 56:9,24 38:13 41:4
36:23 fills 24:22 further 4:12,23 goes 9:11 10:7 42:1,16 43:11
42:6 final 3:23 7:8,20 12:23 17:21 52:24 47:3
finality 3:25 44:12 53:12 going 6:17 10:1 Half 45:3
49:23 52:22 59:2 17:2 18:6 Hancock 54:11
51:3,17 finally 21:4 56:6 19:11 21:5,13 handed 47:16
54:14,19 find 8:5 11:14 G 21:15 22:3,8 handle 16:21
58:1 19:25 20:2 G 1:6 3:1 23:11 24:15 19:12
16:17,18 finding 43:14,24 game 53:23 29:11 31:12,17 happened 40:19
44:25 findings 38:11 gay 19:24 32:12 35:9 47:15
49:3 49:24 50:5 GEN 1:15 2:3,8 37:20 39:13 happens 5:15
fine 28:3 29:3 general 1:15 3:5 45:12,25 47:2 41:7 42:16
44:20 first 9:18,21 5:14 9:8 10:21 47:3,6 53:22 harbor 40:5
49:1 13:14 20:17 10:25 15:3 54:19 hard 26:11
57:16,16 32:23 45:3 16:17 20:8 good 20:12 28:19 39:4
16:18 18:13 inclined 57:11 50:5,14 53:6 judged 18:4
humanity 18:7 includes 51:6 36:18 judge's 19:10
21:7,19 hung 5:24 21:20 48:8,19 37:24 judgment 30:8
22:12 hypothetical incompetence insulates 36:21 40:11 47:5
26:7 15:9 29:2 13:11 intend 10:20,24 judgments 44:4
54:22 incompetency 16:20 18:10 juries 31:23
17:7 33:16,17,19 15:14 55:25 8:10
25:13 51:6 inconsistent intent 15:5 jurors 5:22
ill 9:4 10:10 ineffective 15:15 21:6 25:25 18:5,11 19:11
14:6 24:3 illness 9:2 10:7 ineffectiveness 38:9 41:21 20:24 22:7,11
47:1 10:19 16:16 8:16 13:21 43:6 44:10,13 23:6,9 24:16
17:25 19:14 53:14 45:11,23 52:23 26:25 28:20
41:9 inmates 53:24 issues 4:10 33:4 49:9 50:15,16
54:1 58:4 24:23 25:11 J jury's 18:7 19:6
17:2 impose 4:20 6:2 instruct 7:8 Jackson 16:9 Justice 3:3,8,15
29:11 6:5,6,12 7:9 Jewish 19:24 5:25 6:22 7:18
8:6 13:14 impossible 20:2 instruction 5:11 56:4 13:5 14:2,17
15:21 39:5,8,10 5:18,19 6:17 jobs 42:6 14:22 15:7,8
21:17 improved 22:15 8:9 44:23 48:7 Jones 6:8 7:21 16:9 17:7,19
49:19 improvement 48:9 49:5,8,11 JR 1:6 17:21 20:8,12
52:2 22:23 50:16,17 51:10 judge 6:24 16:2 21:8,12 22:1,7
59:3 inadequacy 52:3,23 53:1 17:5 38:2,5 22:14,17,20,22
incarcerated 7:4 44:16,22 43:11,11,12,13 25:8,20 26:10
28:3 25:18 28:19 lens 13:17 55:9 37:25 52:14 Michael 1:17
29:2 29:25 30:2,3,6 58:24 man 31:15 2:5 20:10
30:8 34:16,19 letter 22:4 53:21 man's 32:17 33:25
31:8,21 34:23 35:6,8 let's 35:14 49:15 March 3:24 Mills 3:13,17,18
36:3 43:16,17 level 41:19 Maryland 3:13 3:21 4:8,13,18
46:10 55:19 lie 57:23 7:14 45:8,8 4:19,21 5:3
35:1,12 56:18 58:7 life 6:3,25 7:23 46:1,9 7:13 44:13,17
36:7 Knowles 37:14 7:25 9:15,17 matter 1:11 6:15 45:7,8,17 46:1
37:1 18:20 19:9 7:7 13:8 54:10 46:7,9,10,11
38:8,16 L 23:18 26:15 59:8 47:16,17 48:5
lack 13:11 18:22 lifted 36:13 matters 17:1 51:10,12,14
41:1 lacked 9:5 light 4:4 McKoy 52:21 52:3,4,12,13
42:3,11 laid 58:24 limitations 4:2 53:12 52:19,24 53:1
43:8 Landrigan 12:7 limited 38:6 mean 9:13 11:14 53:10
44:2,8 12:10,14,22 lips 29:15 11:17 21:13 minds 16:14
13:2,3 18:19 listing 56:13 24:10,10 28:12 minor 12:23
46:13,23 56:8,8 litigating 24:6 29:16,23 34:9 minute 15:17
48:3 language 56:1 little 14:20 37:2 40:20 56:10
49:4,12 larger 10:11 Lockhart 34:11 43:9,17 minutes 51:24
50:1,7 Laughter 22:24 logically 24:12 means 5:18 42:9 Mirzayance
law 4:9,14 9:7 long 21:1 55:20 medium-sized 37:14
18:8 24:21 look 8:20 12:9 20:4 misapplying
52:7 37:21 38:18 17:22 21:12 meet 24:23 33:25
39:3,9,15,20 22:22 31:22 25:11,12 mitigate 54:5
56:9,12 40:4,24 41:11 38:10 41:2,16 meets 30:21 mitigates 25:7
57:2,8 42:14 44:6 looked 4:1 menacing 12:18 mitigating 5:5
45:20,25 46:12 looking 37:17 mental 9:2 10:7 5:17 9:5 10:7
47:11 lose 42:22 43:2 10:8,19 16:4,6 10:22 11:19
28:7,17 laws 45:6 lots 24:14 22:11 23:24 44:18,25 47:24
19:23 22:10 23:10,16 32:20,24 33:24 31:13 49:2 49:1,3 50:11
22:5 23:23 25:6,25 34:19,24 37:18 54:22 58:10,15 50:19 51:7,18
53:25 26:5 28:5,14 37:22 40:19 58:15 57:16,24
28:25 31:19 41:7 mentally 9:4 mitigation 26:1
lawyers 30:13 mercy 27:15 58:16
26:8 main 54:14 27:18 36:12 49:6 53:9
length 16:12 45:22 55:16,18,21 moment 49:16
16:9,10 lengthy 55:19 7:16 53:2 met 16:6,24 motion 40:12
24:1 56:5 making 35:24 24:24 moustache 22:2
objectively 39:16 18:9,9,13,14 24:24 27:18
occur 15:16 7:6,10 49:6 perfect 9:20 poorly 15:14
58:13,13 6:16 7:7 8:19 overturned 21:10,23 22:21 possibly 29:5
41:25 52:4 7:16 33:2 practice 6:16
okay 15:10 P personal 8:23 precluded 44:19
8:12 24:7 43:18 51:11,22 Packer 37:16 54:18 predicate 49:9
52:15 page 2:2 30:25 persuaded 11:4 predicated
46:11 26:5 50:24,25 53:5 10:6 12:2 preferable 19:2
50:13,13 one's 29:11 pages 16:14 28:2 49:21 50:2,24 prejudice 11:7
One-by-one 32:7 Petitioner 1:4 11:14,20 12:6
54:8 40:10 45:10 part 18:23 19:4 16:4 35:11 38:10
opposite 7:16 particularly play 23:25 presentation
23:23 order 17:24 pay 32:3 please 3:9 20:13 12:24 19:13
27:25 37:5 penalty 5:18 9:3 pledged 8:22 20:17 24:2
proud 16:19 rare 26:14 22:13 25:4 50:22
provide 56:5 reached 38:4 45:10 rendered 52:5
44:3 react 10:3 30:11 32:10 6:13
22:9 54:16 reading 9:10 57:22 59:1 require 39:21
53:17,19 pursued 10:17 reads 40:7 42:22 redevelopment required 6:4,6
54:4 push 6:6,13 8:8 realize 49:13 31:4 6:18,21 7:13
put 23:23 24:21 11:12,23 13:6 53:5 58:12 requirements
41:16 40:23 refers 46:14 requires 8:9
quarters 40:18 15:25 17:5 regarding 21:3 requiring 7:1
11:23 12:3 32:8 36:4,4,8 rehearing 3:19 reserved 37:15
19:13 33:1 34:12 13:18 26:12 19:22 Resnick 21:21
48:16,21 49:9 47:21 50:17 rejected 4:17 Respondent
55:23 51:12 52:17 57:24 6:8,18 16:2 20:11 26:19
53:8 56:25 reasonableness 36:3 37:6 46:8 response 52:17
50:4 51:3,17 41:10,13 48:24 36:1 55:3 restrained 8:5
48:21 9:13 15:23 23:18 40:15,23 relevant 46:15 return 53:13
53:20 quote 12:11 rebuttal 2:7 relied 14:3 revert 38:13
51:25 39:9 14:7,24 34:13
54:20,21 R 3:1 9:22 51:24 37:25 38:6,12
raised 20:5 33:6 receiving 21:23 remark 32:3 41:19 42:8,10
rambling 27:25 recognize 31:24 9:14 52:6
15:17 22:3 show 3:12 16:5 source 7:15 40:13 41:5,10
47:10,19 51:16 18:15 specifically 19:8 55:16 56:3
3:6 51:25Scalia 22:14,17 side 15:4 24:11 48:17 53:7 statement 12:23
31:2 27:13,22 34:2 sided 11:13 specify 14:9 statements
37:10 34:5,9,15,18 sight 8:17 spell 40:22 45:15
44:2 34:23 36:21 significant 7:15 spend 32:1 States 1:1,12 6:8
21:8,12 49:12,17 50:1 57:12 12:16,18 20:19 43:4 55:14,14
23:4 50:13,21 single 7:9 8:10 20:23 27:11 55:14 56:1,4
38:8 second 5:13 8:16 sir 56:11 57:1 53:21,25 54:15 56:17
48:3,10 10:5 sit 25:16 32:21 stand 8:20 12:19 statutory 20:20
51:1,5 see 18:18 23:10 situation 11:20 16:5 17:13 step 4:8 7:20
25:16 30:21 11:21 18:2,16 19:21 Stevens 10:25
37:5 44:6 Sixth 4:13,17 22:1,18 24:14 11:4,22 12:1
59:4 49:15 12:3,9 20:14 26:8 27:7 13:5 14:2,17
41:17 send 36:2,2,6 skill 26:21 24:23 25:11,12 56:12,24 57:2
32:10 slick 17:16 32:16 34:11,13 sting 10:2
34:19,20 18:11 24:12 Smith 1:3 3:4 39:13 43:20,21 strategic 26:5,18
47:12 sentence 6:3 society 8:23 43:22,25 52:13 26:20 29:17
7:11,23 9:12 10:21 standards 3:11 55:6
29:12 51:16 55:8 standing 29:23 15:23 18:17
sorry 34:4 49:21 stands 28:25 19:2 26:1
15:17 set 15:25 29:10 45:3 25:21,23 28:9 stream 9:14
26:11,11 Seventh 4:16 Sotomayor's 35:7,17 36:10 Strickland 3:14
43:8,18 sheer 8:25 52:17 37:19,24 38:3 11:24 12:5
56:14 shopped 16:25 soul 54:20 38:5,11,14 13:22,25 14:3
11:10 52:18 18:3,17,21 28:11
33:10 supreme 1:1,12 team 16:1 17:3 19:16,17 20:2 tough 4:20
34:13 3:12,22 4:4,10technique 27:14 22:4 23:6,7 tougher 43:25
56:18,19 4:21 6:16 7:7 tell 9:1 14:19 25:1 26:23,23 treatment 21:23
12:4 13:6,10 20:24 24:17,18 26:25 31:25 tremendously
54:23,24 28:9 32:25 43:2,2 51:2 37:3 39:8,12 trial 8:7,18,19
38:25 39:2,9 tells 50:16 51:5 54:9 20:15 22:19
surely 10:1 testified 16:25 18:23 triumphant
swallowing 23:1 32:1,8 40:22 true 13:9 35:19
18:10 sway 54:24 23:24 thousands 40:21 30:13 35:5
sword 25:5 testifying 22:2 40:21 trying 3:16
29:22 30:2 16:3 18:24 thrust 18:20 turn 44:13
T 2:1,1 58:22 tilling 7:22 twisted 18:15
37:6,9 tact 30:19 51:22 52:2 5:23 6:5,15 7:3 13:24 15:7
take 4:19 10:2 theme 10:17 26:11 32:2 twofold 58:11
37:13 taken 41:2 31:14,17 45:19 46:15 types 41:21
takes 27:7 themes 28:14 47:9 52:4 59:3
41:8 talk 32:4 thing 29:1,4 times 32:19 U
talked 31:21 31:12 35:13 today 4:14 23:19 ultimate 5:9
talking 4:24 things 13:13 told 30:15 48:7 ultimately 10:14
tangents 9:12 28:15,21 30:1 53:7 7:5 8:8
53:8 34:11 37:14,16 42:22 58:24 49 33:12
50:11,19 52:18,21 54:11 weeks 9:25 year 47:15 5
vacated 12:8 49:22 50:3 53:3 51 2:9
various 30:12 16:11,21 17:17 0 6
31:22 verdict 5:7 6:13 whatsoever 15:8 1
32:19 7 32:18
50:18 8:11 17:24 whichever 29:14
8
50:17 50:6 Wiggins 41:17 8 32:18
version 6:3 Williams 34:1 11:06 1:13 3:2
29:25 view 43:10 willing 4:7 7:8 49:5 51:7
32:19
53:4 violate 51:9 witnesses 23:24 13 1:9
violated 44:16 31:13 17 35:17
58:21 43:12 23:10 29:9,14 1990 52:21
vote 8:4 49:4 2
45:7 worse 11:10
36:24 26:14,24 34:20
42:24 2009 1:9
38:1,18 wouldn't 34:7
46:24 2254 55:14
39:2,13 40:8,13
2254(d) 37:13
41:14 Wow 22:20
43:1 writ 37:25 38:6
45:5,11 38:7 41:15
4:4 WARDEN 1:3 write 36:15 3 2:4 41:12
17:15 19:23,25 39:1 53:21 57:15
49:21 50:3
32:22
55:19
13:14,17 344a 10:6
7:13 24:2 27:3
13:25 28:14 38:3,23 18:25 19:7 4
30:25 39:1 41:9,12 30:25 55:4
56:13
