IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
TAYLOR JAMES BLOATE, :
Petitioner :
v. : No. 08-728
UNITED STATES. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 6, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 12:59 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
MARK T. STANCIL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
the Petitioner.
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Respondent.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
MARK T. STANCIL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondent 26
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MARK T. STANCIL, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 53
P R O C E E D I N G S
(12:59 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument next in Case 08-728, Bloate v. United States.
Mr. Stancil.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK K. STANCIL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. STANCIL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Pretrial motion preparation time is not
automatically excluded under Section 3161(h)(1) of the
Speedy Trial Act. Such delays are subject to exclusion
only on a case-by-case basis under (h)(7).
I would like to focus today on three
features of the statutory text that make that abundantly
clear. First and foremost, when crafting (h)(1)
Congress specifically addressed pretrial motion delays
and precisely defined that exclusion. Subparagraph (D)
declares that the exclusion shall begin with the filing
of the motion and end with the hearing on or other
prompt disposition of the motion.
Reading the general language in (h)(1) to
encompass preparation time would circumvent the
deliberate legislative choice to limit the pretrial
motion exclusion.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That would allow the
prosecutor's time to be excluded, right? On your theory
that it starts -- the trigger is the filing of the
motion, and it ends when the motion is disposed of. So
the prosecutor might say, I need additional time, and
that would be included in the suspension period, right?
MR. STANCIL: Yes, Your Honor. The
government's motions and the defense motions are treated
equally under (h)(1), which is why the government's rule
to treat defense motions, or defense requests for
additional time differently --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I'm --
MR. STANCIL: The exclusion -- I'm sorry,
Your Honor.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. STANCIL: The exclusion begins with the
filing of the motion, be it the defense motion or the
government's motion. That is clear on the text, the
face of the text of the statute, which --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the clock -- the
clock would run, on your theory, during the preparation
time of the defendant. It would not run during the
preparation time of the prosecutor. So I don't think
they are being treated the same.
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor, that is not
our position. The clock runs up until the moment of
filing.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Right.
MR. STANCIL: Whether it is a defense motion
or a government motion. So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, no. I'm talking
about the prosecutor's answer to the defense motion.
MR. STANCIL: Oh, yes, Your Honor. Their
response to the motion, it is tolled -- or the clock
stops during the preparation of the response by either
side. And that was a deliberate legislative choice by
Congress. It says -- on the face of (h)(1), it says the
clock stops at filing and remains stopped through the
conclusion of the hearing or other prompt disposition of
the motion.
That was an express choice by Congress. It
was not lost on them that a response time would be
treated differently. And the government's suggestion
that that, therefore, means we should factor back in
preparation time is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Shouldn't we be
looking --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: One point that I would
like you to clarify. I -- I understand you to take the
position that the interest of justice would be the route
to take, where the judge would have to stop and make a
finding. In your view, would it be appropriate,
assuming your interpretation of (B)(i) holds, for us to
send the case back, or is it too late, because the
interest of justice finding was never made?
MR. STANCIL: It is too late because this
Court answered that question -- that very question in
Zedner and held that an (h)(7) ends of justice finding
cannot be supplied retrospectively on remand. That was
the precise question put to this Court and it was
rejected by the Court unanimously.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you think it could be
found. If it doesn't have to be found on the spot by
the judge, when is the latest time the judge could make
the interest of justice filing?
MR. STANCIL: Zedner says that as long as it
is made -- or the latest it could be made is the time by
which the district court rules on the motion to dismiss
on speedy trial -- on speedy trial grounds. So it can
be made in the district court up until the time the
district court decides the speedy trial motion. It does
not -- at least it is left open in Zedner.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the result in your
case would be that the case is dismissed, period.
MR. STANCIL: Yes, Your Honor. It would be
-- it would be remanded with instructions to dismiss.
However, the district court -- it remains for the
district court to determine whether to dismiss with or
without prejudice according to the factors specified in
the act.
JUSTICE ALITO: Is it clear that a period of
time attributable to a defense request for time to
prepare pretrial motions can fall within (h)(7)?
Because (h)(7) speaks of a continuance. Isn't that a
very -- wouldn't that be a very odd use of the word
"continuance"?
If you make an application to a judge for
time, additional time to prepare pretrial motions, do
you say, "I want a continuance of the date on which my
pretrial motions are due"?
MR. STANCIL: I think that's not an unusual
reading of the term "continuance," yes, Your Honor. I
think they frequently -- trial counsel will frequently
ask for a continuance of the date. But what I think
both parties agree is that that is how the courts almost
universally interpret (h)(7), that any time that is
excluded, even if it doesn't result in the moving of the
trial date per se, is treated as an (h)(7) exclusion.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there's -- but the
courts of appeals have almost universally read
(h)(1)(D), or overwhelmingly read (h)(1)(D) to apply in
this situation as well.
I'm sorry. Not (h)(1)(D), but the
introductory phrase.
MR. STANCIL: Yes, Your Honor, but this rule
wasn't confined to pretrial motions. So even in those
jurisdictions that follow the majority position at issue
here, also to my understanding use (h)(7) to exclude
intermediate delays before trial. In fact, in the
government's brief, the government acknowledges that
courts treat pretrial motion delays under either (h)(1)
or (h)(7), and more specifically (h)7)(B)(iv), which
specifically speaks in terms of preparation. And in
fact, that's still further evidence that Congress
specifically contemplated that preparation time would go
under (h)(7). Both (h)(7)(B)(ii) and (h)(7)(B)(iv)
specifically direct district courts to consider the need
for additional time for adequate or effective
preparation.
And Justice Alito, back to your concern
specifically with motions. (B)(ii) specifically refers
to pretrial proceedings. So I think there, in that
sense, there is evidence that Congress didn't think that
a continuance under (h)(7) would refer only to a
continuance of the trial date. At least, that's --
that's my understanding.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, at the time
that (h)(1)(C) -- or (D) was being looked at, wasn't it
a fact that some circuits had reviewed the prior
exclusion as applying only to the date in which there
were actual hearings before the court?
MR. STANCIL: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So isn't it -- shouldn't
we be looking at what you did with respect to this time
period in light of the need that it was addressing?
MR. STANCIL: Yes, Your Honor. And the
Court -- and Congress did decide to expand or clarify
the end point and beginning point of the (h)(1)(D)
exclusion.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, what's wrong with
the logic of district courts who have ruled in this --
in the government's favor, that say Congress was only
looking at that particular part of the proceeding --
what related to the hearing, the filing of the motion,
its actual adjudication -- but they weren't considering
a motion by the defendant for time to investigate, and
that can be another proceeding?
Can you imagine a situation in which a court
grants that adjournment to a defense attorney where we
would reverse that finding by the court?
MR. STANCIL: I'm sorry, Your Honor?
Reverse --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But -- it would seem to
me that if a defense attorney comes to a court and says,
I need an adjournment, and the Court says, you can have
it, isn't that implicitly a proceeding in which the
court is saying there is a need for this?
MR. STANCIL: Not in a speedy trial context,
Your Honor, for two reasons. First, it is not a
proceeding. There is no pretrial proceeding until the
motion is filed. That is -- that is the definition of a
pretrial motion proceeding. It is a formal initiation
before the district court.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: "Proceeding" doesn't
mean an act -- it is an act before the court. The
entire action is before the court. But it is a
proceeding in which the defense attorney is looking at
whether there's anything to file motions about.
MR. STANCIL: If that were correct, Your
Honor, then preparing your witnesses is a proceeding
respecting trial. I think that takes "proceeding" and
expands it so that everything would be excludable delay.
But if -- if I may return to your original
question, Congress did look at preparation time when
drafting (h)(1) and (h)(1)B) specifically --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the Senate did.
MR. STANCIL: Pardon me. Yes, the Senate
Judiciary Committee specifically considered a proposal
by the government no less to include preparation time,
and the committee rejected that proposal as
unreasonable. I think this is simply not a case in
which we are left to guess whether preparation time was
on the table. It was on the table and it was declared
unreasonable to suggest that it would be within the
automatic exclusion.
Moreover, I think that makes abundant sense.
It is not the case that simply asking for more time
necessarily means that you have some prejudice in the
speedy trial context, or even that the trial date
necessarily would move. In this case, the counsel
requested the extension for pretrial motions. That
extension was granted. The trial date held. It wasn't
moved until much later, under an (h)(7) exclusion on
unrelated grounds. So I think it's a -- I think it's a
false -- a red herring, if you will, for the government
to suggest that when the defendant asks for something,
it's necessarily -- it ought to be granted, fair enough,
but that it's necessarily going to prejudice the speedy
trial calculation.
With respect, I don't think that's the case.
I think ordinarily, these things will come very early in
the speedy trial -- speedy trial clock, and there will
be relatively brief delays. And so I think it's quite
reasonable to think that district courts could be
allowed to give more flexible preparation time to decide
whether to file, what to file, and then the exclusion
starts with the filing. And I think Congress has made
that abundantly clear in -- on the text of the statute.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That would certainly
encourage judges who don't want to get involved with
making findings, which you have to do to satisfy
interest of justice, to just say: Motion denied; I'm
sorry, I'm not going to let you have the clock run while
you -- you are asking me for a favor. You want time to
prepare, and the clock is going to run in the meantime.
Forget it. You are not going to get the extension.
MR. STANCIL: I disagree, Your Honor.
First, I think courts will granted them when
necessary. Again because it is early in the clock,
there won't necessarily be speedy trial -- some sort of
speedy prejudice to the government. But moreover, all
this means is that the court needs to put findings on
the record to say this is preparation time that is
legitimately needed, the defendant's interests here
outweigh the public's interest, and so I'm going to
grant that and I'm going to put those findings on the
record. And I think it's clear from the statute that
that's how Congress anticipated this would work. But
I --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What must the judge --
the judge must make a finding orally or in writing. Can
it just say, okay, I'm giving it to you in the interest
of justice?
MR. STANCIL: I think -- I don't believe
that precise question has come to the Court. But courts
are very permissive in terms of how much needs to be put
on the record, and it's my understanding that this
happens quite literally every day in scores of contexts
where courts, as long as they make the finding, it is
reviewed for an abuse of discretion only and that's
sufficient.
JUSTICE ALITO: So the rule that you are
arguing for really will accomplish nothing, other than
to benefit a small set of defendants who -- who got
pretrial preparation time in reliance on court of
appeals decisions saying that those could be done
without making explicit ends of justice findings on the
record?
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. If we are
correct, the decision will have significant effect on
the public's interest. In fact, an individual defendant
has very little to gain from such gamesmanship as the
government suggests would be at issue. What you get is
a dismissal of your indictment with or without
prejudice, and there are no statute of limitations
problems --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, how is the public
going to benefit if all the judge needs -- presumably,
district judges are not granting these extensions of
time in situations in which they do not think that the
ends of justice are served by granting the extension of
time.
So what is going to be served by requiring
them to recite this -- to make this rote recitation on
the record?
MR. STANCIL: First, Your Honor, it's not
rote. It specifies four factors that they have to
consider, including and before, it says, whether its
time -- the time is necessary for effective preparation,
taking into account the exercise of due diligence.
What this -- what putting this under (h)(7)
and making that process required will do is weed out the
very worst sorts of delays where counsel, even for the
defendant or the government, comes in and asks for the
delay without the exercise of due diligence and without
any showing that this is actually necessary. And I
think that's exactly what Congress was doing by not
putting this under the automatic exclusion in (h)(1).
If it's automatically excluded, and there is
additional time granted for no reason whatsoever or for
something that wouldn't meet the due diligence standard
in (B)(iv), the speedy trial clock is effectively
lengthened automatically.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you tell me how it
works in district courts? This district court set
September 13 originally for the -- for the motion. Do
the district courts generally have a custom schedule for
every case where they set times or do they have local
rules on the subject?
MR. STANCIL: With respect to pretrial
motions specifically?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.
MR. STANCIL: It varies widely from district
to district. For example, in some districts the default
is 21 days. So, if you try a case in Chicago, you go to
arraignment, your pretrial motions, unless set by a
different rule, are due in 21 --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's -- that's part
of -- that there in the local rule of court?
MR. STANCIL: Yes, Your Honor. In D.C., it
is 11 days. In many other jurisdictions and here, there
is no set time limit.
And one of the problems -- one of the
fundamental problems with the government's rule that a
request -- a defense request for additional time must be
treated differently and does stop the clock, is that
gives speedy trial consequences to those variations in
local rules. So, in districts where you have a very
short standard timeframe, the defendant has to run in,
if he wants to file pretrial motions, and stop the clock
almost automatically. If you have -- say, your motions
are due automatically in seven days; you have got to run
in there and stop the clock.
As a practical matter, the speedy trial, the
70 days, it's that much longer in those districts
because you have got to stop the clock compared to
districts where, say, 21 days are ordinarily allotted.
Well, they may not have to stop the clock. It's clear
that Congress did not --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I'm -- I'm not sure
that that isn't -- that that argument doesn't cut both
ways.
MR. STANCIL: I'm sorry, Your Honor?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure if that -- if
you have a district where you have five days, a very
short period and almost nobody can comply with it, then
maybe that's an argument for the government's rule.
MR. STANCIL: I disagree, Your Honor. I
think that illustrates the problem, because if there is
a -- call it an unreasonably short time period in this
district, the speedy trial clock only burns for four or
five days or a week, and then someone is going to have
to run in and stop it. So those trials are just going
to take longer.
Let's assume that it takes two weeks on
average or three weeks on average to prepare a
reasonable pretrial motion. Well, in those
jurisdictions that have that local rule, the short local
rule, you get two extra weeks on the speedy trial clock,
because you have to run in and hit stop on the clock by
asking for additional time.
In those districts that give you 21 days by
default, by contrast, that whole 21 days counts against
the 70 days. And that is, I think -- I think that is an
essential judgment that Congress made. It decided on 70
days --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I think an
assumption in your mathematical analysis is that there
will be a difference in the time that it takes to
dispose of the motion. If the time to dispose of the
motion is the same, then you are wrong, I think. I will
work it out.
MR. STANCIL: I don't believe so, Your
Honor. If you assume hypothetically 21 days to prepare
--
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
MR. STANCIL: -- 21 days to respond and call
it 21 days to rule --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
MR. STANCIL: -- in a district that allows
21 days of preparation time by default rule, 21 days
will burn and then 42 days with response and ruling.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
MR. STANCIL: In a district that allows only
five days, five days burn, and then you have to stop the
clock for the additional 16 days of preparation, plus
21, plus 21. You end up effectively, if the difference
is 5 days or 21 days, there is an 86-day speedy trial
clock in the district with the short rule and a 70-day
speedy trial clock in the district with the local
rule -- with the 21-day rule.
And so I think it's -- and it's clear that
what Congress did not want in the Speedy Trial Act was
these time periods to be amended by local rule
effectively. And that's what would happen. I think
more fundamentally --
JUSTICE ALITO: Where does that show,
because the disposition time isn't going to be the same
from district to district? Districts vary.
MR. STANCIL: That's correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: Congress could have
required, as they have in some instances, to have a
judge decide a matter within a certain period of time.
They didn't do that, did they?
MR. STANCIL: That's not correct, Your
Honor. In subparagraph (H), 3161(h)(1)(H) allows only
30 days during which a matter is actively under --
actually under advisement by the district court. So
here they actual did set a 30-day clock on which to
rule.
There is an exception to that. If there is
a hearing subparagraph (D) says, well, you know, we are
not going to govern the time in the hearing, and this
Court's in Henderson gives district courts flexibility
in that regard, when there is a hearing. But Congress
was pretty clear in trying to put a book end at either
end. It starts on filing and it ends with disposition,
and we only give you 30 days without a hearing or after
the hearing to dispose of it.
And I think more fundamentally this is a
quintessentially legislative judgment. Congress said,
this is a system of rules that we need in place to move
cases more expeditiously toward trial. We are going to
give you 70 days. We are going to exclude certain
things automatically, and we are going to give district
courts flexibility under (h)(7).
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could a district
judge, as part of his normal pretrial order, say that I
am inclined to grant normal motions for extensions, but
I think so we don't run into these problems that it's in
the best interest of justice that whatever time I grant,
I issue an order covered by (h)(7)(A)? That avoids all
this problem. I don't have to worry about the Speedy
Trial Act when I grant you a motion, because whatever I
grant you is going to be excluded under (h)(7)(A).
MR. STANCIL: I don't -- that sounds a lot
like a prospective waiver of speedy trial, which is --
this court rejected in Zedner. If I understand the
hypothetical correctly, if the district court says if I
give you extra time, we are not going to complain about
it later. I don't think that the court could do that,
and I don't think that would be consistent --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But presumably, a
judge can do it in every case. You are saying they
can't tell you in advance this is what they are going to
do, but they can do it automatically in every case?
MR. STANCIL: I don't believe so, Your
Honor. I think, if I understand the hypothetical
correctly, if a -- if we appear before the district
judge and the judge says exclusions or extensions for
pretrial motions will qualify for (h)(7), that sounds
like to me in an individual case a prospective waiver of
that defendant's Speedy Trial Act --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Wait a minute. If a
defense attorney comes in to you and says -- I'm a
district court judge -- I need time to prepare; granted,
I am excluding time under (7)(A). You are saying that
is insufficient?
MR. STANCIL: No, Your Honor. If it's done
on a case-by-case basis, where the time is requested and
the continuance or the delay is granted with the (h)(7)
findings made either then or later, that would be
perfectly appropriate. That's how Congress --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it's not okay for a
district court to say, you tell me how much or you have
21 days to prepare motions and I'm excluding time
because of that?
MR. STANCIL: No. I'm not sure I -- I
apologize. I'm not sure I under --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Local rule from a
district court judge: Defendant is arraigned; you have
21 days to file motions.
MR. STANCIL: Yes, Your Honor. That is --
that time is not excluded if it is just set by local
rule.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you finish
answering one earlier question. You said that there is
no statute of limitations problems if we rule in your
favor. Could you explain why?
MR. STANCIL: Yes. Under 18 U.S.C., I
believe it's 3288 and 3289, essentially gives the
government six months after the dismissal of an
indictment to reindict a defendant. And courts have
almost universally held that that applies -- or I
believe it's universally held that that applies where
the dismissal is based on Speedy Trial Act grounds. I
think we are in agreement with the government that there
is not a statute of limitations problem.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could under that retrial
provision the court begin excluding time?
MR. STANCIL: The speedy trial clock starts
anew after a new --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what I mean.
MR. STANCIL: Yes, Your Honor. That is
clear under the statute.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have any idea how
many convictions would be at risk for reversal under
this rule, that would be currently pending and subject
to a ruling in your favor now?
MR. STANCIL: I don't know. My supposition
is that it's not very many. The government certainly
hasn't suggested that there are a lot. It would have to
be cases within those eight districts or -- pardon me --
I guess it would be nine or ten, that have either not
taken a position or take the government's position, in
which the defendant raised this argument in the trial
court --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In a timely manner.
MR. STANCIL: -- in a timely manner. So I
think if that is the case, it's an exceedingly small
number, and for that matter, that would be a problem in
any case in which this Court reverses an incorrect
ruling.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is -- is there any
indication in the circuits that follow what seems to be
the majority rule -- that is that the clock is stopped
during preparation time -- that there have been
excessive delays, in comparison to the -- what is it,
two circuits who go the other way?
MR. STANCIL: Not that I am aware of, Your
Honor, but nor has there been any indication that
district courts in the two jurisdiction where they get
the rule right in our view deny defense requests for
additional time.
I think -- I think this rule will matter if
you assume that the average pretrial motion extension is
relatively modest and that the lawyers are fairly
reasonable in what they request. We are talking about,
you know, additional delays of a week or two weeks, but
that is -- again, that backs right up into the
congressional judgment, the legislative judgment that
Congress made.
And so those trials will on average in the
majority of jurisdictions, I think, just take that much
longer to get to trial.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what is your
systemic concern with the -- with the government's rule?
The judge has to grant the continuance under either --
under either of your rules, and you say he has to make a
finding that it's good. But are you concerned the
continuance would be because the attorney wants to play
golf or take a vacation with his kids, and that that's
not the cause?
MR. STANCIL: Well, that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that's what's driving
your concern?
MR. STANCIL: Well, that would be -- that is
the most important function of (h)(7), to screen out the
truly unmeritorious delays. That's what Congress wanted
to get at most of all.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But wouldn't judges in
many cases do that anyway just in the course of deciding
whether to grant a continuance?
MR. STANCIL: The court may --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Give -- give me the
consequences of ruling for the government that you see
that are adverse in your view.
MR. STANCIL: The consequence -- ruling for
the government would mean that any time a defendant
needs any extra time, or -- or we would say either side
needs any extra time, the clock stops. And so any time
you need additional time for pretrial motions there is
no balancing.
So in the routine case that is not complex,
where the -- where the defendant's counsel may be just
simply not exercising due diligence, you could ask for
two weeks and there is no -- there is no balancing. The
district court doesn't even have to ask, what's the
delay, you know, why the extra delay? And that time is
automatically excluded.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's my point.
MR. STANCIL: Yes.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I assume the district
judge will ask. Or is --
MR. STANCIL: In the absence --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or do you doubt that?
MR. STANCIL: I am sure it will vary from
court to court. But in the absence of (h)(7) and
putting it on the record, the district court is
certainly not required to ask and may not -- certainly
won't put those findings on the record. And I think
this Court made that point very clear in Zedner, that
(h)(7) balances substantive open-endedness with
procedural strictness, and the procedure is what
matters, and Congress made that explicitly clear in
drafting (h)(7).
If I may, I would like to reserve the
remainder of my time for rebuttal.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Roberts.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
MR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Additional time granted for preparation of
pretrial motions is automatically excluded from the
Speedy Trial Act deadline for commencing trial. For
three reasons, that time falls under section 3161(h)(1)
which excludes delay resulting from other proceedings
concerning the defendant.
First, Section (h)(1) excludes delay
resulting from various listed proceedings and other
proceedings that are analogous or ancillary to those
proceedings. A court's grant of additional motions
preparation time is ancillary to pretrial motions
themselves, which are a listed proceeding. It
facilitates the motions because adequate time to prepare
them is critical to their fair and accurate resolution.
The exclusion is similar to other excludable delays that
result from proceedings ancillary to listed proceedings.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could I ask a
specific date question? Am I right that you would
exclude the time from September 7th to October 4th?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, the time from
September 7th to October 4th.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that
doesn't -- I'm not sure that makes much sense. Before
the motion for extension was filed, the hearing date for
pretrial motions was September 20. After the extension
was filed and granted, the hearing date was October 4th.
So the only period of delay that you could say resulted
from the extension was from September 20 to October 4,
or 13 days.
Well, how can you possibly count the time as
a delay after he filed his extension up to the point
when things would have been due anyway?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, the delay is just the
time that's being used for preparation, which was
presumably the time all the way up to the period at
which the waiver of the intent to file motions was
filed.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but how is
that a -- how is the time being spent for preparation a
delay, when some of that time was going to be allowed
anyway?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think the act --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In other words, the
motions were not due until September 25th. So I don't
see how the time he spent before then can be regarded as
a delay.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, that's -- that's a
result of the fact that the act doesn't exclude the time
before a routine deadline for filing the motion, because
it only excludes the time -- the delay resulting from an
individualized proceeding. But it makes sense not to
exclude the -- the time before the routine deadline as a
general matter, because if you excluded all that time,
then you -- the result would be that the basic deadline
of the act would be extended and time would be excluded
in cases where no time was being used for consideration
or preparation of pretrial motions. But once you
know --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the -- what
is the proceeding from which you count in determining
what should be excluded?
MR. ROBERTS: The time running from the
order of the district court granting additional time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay, that order --
that proceeding was initiated and ruled on the same day.
The person comes in and says: I would like time. The
judge that same day says yes.
MR. ROBERTS: There were --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That proceeding
takes a day.
MR. ROBERTS: The request -- the request for
time, that proceeding was done. But the order -- the
order granting additional time is a proceeding, and the
additional time that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The additional time
flowing from the order is a proceeding?
MR. ROBERTS: The order -- an order is a
step in the case, an act of the court --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. ROBERTS: -- and it's a proceeding.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.
MR. ROBERTS: And it's --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that's one day.
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, but it's the delay
resulting from the order that we are talking about.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ah. Now that -- now
-- now I don't see how that's consistent with the other
provisions of the act. If you take (h)(1)(A), that
excludes delay resulting from any proceeding to
determine mental competency. Okay?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And under your
theory that would include the time from the filing of
that motion to the end of the determination of mental
competency, right?
MR. ROBERTS: I think courts have excluded
from the filing of a motion seeking an examination, yes.
You could also, that would probably be excluded under
(h)(1)(D) --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ah. Well -- yes.
Well, or -- yes ---no, I'm looking at (h)(4). Now
(h)(4) excludes any period of delay resulting from the
fact that the defendant is -- is mentally incompetent.
MR. ROBERTS: Right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me
redundant if you exclude the delay from the examination
and then also exclude mental incompetence.
MR. ROBERTS: I don't think so, Your Honor,
because the delay resulting from the examination would
-- would be excluded from the order granting the
examination until the examination was complete. And
then there would be a determination of competence or
incompetence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right. Well,
let's look at (h)(1)(G). That excludes delay resulting
from consideration by the court of a proposed plea
agreement. But then (h)(2) says any period of delay in
which prosecution is deferred pursuant to a written --
written agreement with the defendant, for the purpose of
allowing the defendant to demonstrate his good conduct,
which sounds an awful lot like a plea agreement to me.
MR. ROBERTS: I don't -- I think that
that's -- that that's a different -- a different
deferral, Your Honor. It's not for the court's
consideration of a plea agreement or even for
negotiations. It's saying we're going to take time out
so that the defendant can demonstrate his -- his good
conduct.
I think that the plea agreement provision is
once the parties have proposed an agreement to the
court, the court has time to consider whether it should
approve that and that time's excluded. And in fact
courts have excluded the time that the parties are
engaged in plea negotiations as ancillary to that
provision of consideration of the proposed plea
agreement.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If I disagree with
you that, when the time that is extended before a
hearing on the pretrial motions and the acceptance of a
waiver, which runs from 13 days, September 20, the
original date, and the date that it actually took place,
which is 13 days, and if I think, contrary to your
submission, which is that the whole time from the filing
of the extension to the final hearing is delay, even
though it was only 13 days that was pushed back, then
you lose, right?
MR. ROBERTS: I'm not sure. If you think
that the -- that there's delay that results from the
grant of the extension, I don't think that the
Petitioners ever challenged the length of the delay that
was excluded, so the only issue that's before the Court
is whether that delay is excluded.
I don't know that the Petitioners preserved
any argument about the length of the delay, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Putting aside what
Petitioners may or may not have argued, if I think that
the delay is only how far the date for consideration of
a motion and acting on the motion has been moved -- in
this case, from September 20 to October 4; in other
words, it's 13 days, not 28 days -- then you lose,
right?
MR. ROBERTS: I'm not sure that we lose. I
have to confess that I haven't calculated the -- the
exact amount of time that that results. In any case,
there are other periods of delays --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I guess it
would be, take 15 days from what time you have
calculated, and that's -- that's under the wire -- or is
it above the wire?
MR. ROBERTS: Yeah. I'm sorry, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In other words, I am
contesting 15 of your days, and you figured out how much
days you think can be excluded or not excluded.
MR. ROBERTS: Right. I guess I would say,
if there was some question about the length of delay,
the appropriate thing would be to -- to rule for us on
the issue that's before the Court, remand to the courts
below, allow them to decide whether the Petitioners
preserved the question about the length of delay and
what the effect is on a rule that would only limit the
additional delay.
You know, we also have other arguments for
the fact that we think that, even if this time isn't
excluded, that, based on -- based on the additional
preparation time, that there's still no Speedy Trial Act
here, that we raised in the -- in the brief of -- in
opposition, and we would think that that should be taken
into account on any remand like that as well.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was -- what was the
second point you just made, Mr. Roberts? That, even if
the clock is running, you would still have an argument
that you come within the 70 days because?
MR. ROBERTS: Because the -- on
September 25th, Petitioner filed a notice of intent to
waive pretrial motions, and then there was a hearing on
that on the 4th, and so that filing would be analogous
to a motion or a motion that would trigger it's own
delay, that it would trigger it's own exclusion of time
even if the time starting on September 7th was not
excluded.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just for my -- just for my
information, what's a motion to -- to waive? I mean,
why does he need permission to waive?
MR. ROBERTS: The -- the court had
originally said -- the court had originally provided in
its order that on the deadline for filing motions the --
the Petitioner should either file the motions or
indicate whether he wanted to waive the motions and then
set a hearing on either one, on the 4th, and that's what
happened.
After he filed that paper on the 4th, the
court held a hearing, and the defendant -- discussed
with the defendant personally whether he wanted to waive
his right to file motions.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I see.
MR. ROBERTS: And the defendant waived his
right to file motions, which had a consequence, you
know, in the case.
The second reason that the additional time
granted for preparation of pretrial motions is
automatically excluded is that the exclusion in Section
(h)(1)(D) for delay resulting from pretrial motions
themselves excludes the time that a court grants the
non-moving party to prepare a response.
And, as Justice Ginsburg, in her questions
suggested, it would make little sense automatically to
exclude time granted to respond to motions, but not the
time granted for the specific purpose of preparing them.
In fact, this Court employed similar
reasoning to that in the Henderson case when it held
that the Act excludes the time after a court has held a
hearing on a motion while the court's awaiting further
written submissions.
The Court reasoned that it would make no
sense not to exclude that time because the act excludes
all the time before the hearing, as well as 30 days
after a motion's taken under advisement; and likewise it
would make no sense not to exclude time that is
specifically granted to prepare motions when the Court
excludes the time granted to respond to them.
Third --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Except for the -- for the
language, which -- which says that you -- you time it
from the beginning of the time granted.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, section -- Section
(h)(1), Your Honor, expressly states that it excludes
delays, including, but not limited, to the listed
delays, so no negative inference arises from the fact
that the listed examples don't specifically address
delays resulting from the grant of additional motions
preparation time.
Section (h)(1)(D) is addressing a related,
but different delay, the delay from the pretrial motion
itself.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what's the effect of
that language then? Why didn't (D) just read "delay
resulting from any pretrial motion"?
MR. ROBERTS: Because Congress specifically
amended it in 1979, in response to previous
interpretations by some courts that had excluded only
the time that was spent in actual court hearings, and
the language makes clear that all the time from the
filing of the motion through the hearings, including
the -- not just the Court hearing time -- is excluded,
and it -- the language continues to -- to make that
clear, even if preparation time is also sometimes
excluded.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, do you disagree
with your adversary, that there is no statute of
limitations problem if we rule against you?
MR. ROBERTS: No. I don't think that there
are statute of limitations problems, Your Honor, but
requiring judges to make superfluous ends of justice
findings --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But is it superfluous?
Because what your adversary is saying is that Congress
wanted district courts to think about why some things
were being -- additional time was being requested. Not
all motions by defendants would a district court
actually feel were warranted and might say to that
individual if they came in: Look; that shouldn't take
you three weeks; that should only take you a week.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, a court should always be
doing that in considering whether to grant additional
time that's requested, Your Honor. Neither the
defendant nor the public is going to have an interest in
rushing to trial without adequate time to prepare --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that doesn't answer
my point. Without a requirement that the judge actually
has to make a finding in the interest of justice, once
the defense attorney comes in and says, I want a month,
and isn't the judge required to give him the month
because it's automatically excludable?
What, otherwise, forces the judge to look at
the request and say, no; is it really in the interest of
justice for me to give you that month?"
MR. ROBERTS: The -- the judge doesn't have
to give him the additional time. Presumably, the judge
should only give him the -- the additional time if more
time is needed to prepare the -- the motions, based on
the justification that the defendant --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what -- so what
additional requirements are we imposing on the judge
that the statute itself doesn't command?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, what --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If the judge always has
to listen to the reason, weigh it, determine whether or
not it is in fact in the interest of justice or not, how
much more burden are we putting on a judge than to say,
look, you are right, you need a month; I will exclude it
under (7)(H).
MR. ROBERTS: The judge has to specifically
consider all of the specified factors that are in (b)(1)
through (4).
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We have never required
the judge to give a litany of each of the factors under
(h)(7). We have never required him or her to do a
detailed finding. We've just required them to say
there's some reason for it.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, the court -- the statute
says that the judge shall consider the specific factors,
and some courts at least have -- have reversed -- if
a -- situations where the court hasn't considered the
factors.
In addition, there have to be specific ends
of justice findings, which I would respectfully disagree
with counsel on the other side: The findings have to be
made before the continuance is granted. What --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what Zedner seems
to suggest.
MR. ROBERTS: What Zedner says is the
findings have to be made before the continuance is
granted. They can be recorded later, but they have to
be made, because otherwise the continuance isn't made on
the basis of the findings. So if the judge didn't go
through, consider the factors, and make the findings, if
only in the judge's mind, then the judge shouldn't be
recording them later on.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Roberts --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And counsel wouldn't know
until -- wouldn't know whether the time was excluded or
not until -- until a later finding is either made or not
made.
MR. ROBERTS: Is recorded. I guess -- I
guess not, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you,
Mr. Roberts, to comment on your opponent's argument that
you are creating a rule that if a particular district
has a standing order that motions be filed after seven
days and then another district has a standing order that
it be 21 days, the effect of your rule would be to make
the seven-day district an 86-day -- give them 86 days
under the Speedy Trial Act?
MR. ROBERTS: Yes, Your Honor. The -- the
act just doesn't operate so that -- so that all the
districts' excludable delays are even across districts.
The exclusion in Section (h)(1)(D), the exclusion for
pretrial motions, excludes the time that's allotted to
prepare responses. And there is wide variation among
the different districts in the time that's allotted to
prepare responses.
So, for example, the Northern District of
Florida gives 14 days after the motion. The Northern
District of Illinois gives ten days after the motion.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's for response time.
MR. ROBERTS: For response time.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And that's automatically
excluded, so that won't affect the -- well, like you
said, it's --
MR. ROBERTS: It's going to be different.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes.
MR. ROBERTS: So it's the same -- it's the
same issue. They're just -- it isn't in lockstep.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But if the difference is
specifically authorized by Congress?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, this is specifically
authorized by Congress, too, because section (h)(1) is
-- is a general exclusion for delay resulting from
proceedings concerning the defendant.
And, you know, these are -- the list of
things are examples only. And this covers those
proceedings and other proceedings, including those that
like this one that are ancillary to the listed ones.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But doesn't it seem fairly
clear that the district which has a 21-day rule, they
won't have to -- normally, they won't need extra time in
the routine case for an extra motion, whereas the
districts with a seven-day rule would pretty
automatically need another 10 days or so.
MR. ROBERTS: I think it depends on the
particular case and what motions are in -- or what
motions are involved, Your Honor.
But the -- the rule is going to operate
differentially, too. Under Petitioner's theory, people
come in asking for different extensions of time to get
(h)(7) continuances, which Petitioner says are not going
to be very difficult to get granted. So I think, both
in terms of the response time varying and in terms of
the rule having the same effect, whether it's excluded
under (h)(1) or (h)(7), I'm not sure that you are going
to ever get a complete parity. That's really not what
Congress was intending.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, this may be
the same question I was asking earlier, but I want to
make sure I've got your answer. Let's say the original
date for filing motions is, as it was here,
September 13th, right? On September 7th, Mr. Bloate
asks for additional time. So the judge's, you know,
runs a tight ship, and he says, I will give you one day.
One more day, so now it's due on September 14th.
You would say the delay resulting from that
extension was seven days, from September 7th, when he
filed it, to September 14th, and not one day.
MR. ROBERTS: That's the way the courts have
interpreted it, because once the -- once the
determination has been made that there should be time to
prepare a response, then you know that you're outside of
the case where you don't know whether any of this time
in the routine deadline is being used for response --
for consideration of motions or preparation of motions.
You know that counsel is using time for that purpose.
But I would say, you know, the same answer
back to you, that -- that the issue here is whether
additional time should -- is excluded when it's granted.
The issue isn't how much time should have been excluded.
And if -- if the court thinks that an incorrect amount
of time has been -- was calculated as excluded, I think
that the appropriate thing to do in that circumstance
would be for the Court to leave that open on remand,
assuming that it's -- that it's preserved. But, you
know, I think that -- that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you would argue it
wasn't reserved because both sides thought the period
was from September 7th until October 4th, and one
thought that that whole period should be excluded? That
was your position, and then the other side said none of
it --
MR. ROBERTS: That's right, Your Honor. I
-- Petitioner never argued, at least as far as I am
aware, that the error was a miscalculation of the amount
of time, rather than the exclusion of the time under the
wrong statutory provision.
JUSTICE BREYER: How -- how do you think it
should work? It seems to me they are two separate
things. On September 7th, the defendant comes in and
says, "Judge, you've told me I have to have everything
ready by the 13th. I would like additional time to
prepare." And what he said was, "until September 25th."
He said that on the 13th: "I want until
September 25th." This is what I think the Chief Justice
is asking, in part.
Now, what the judge did is excluded
everything from September 7th all the way to
October 4th. And if I understand your argument -- I'm
not sure I agree with it, but on the 7th to the 13th,
that really wasn't additional time, but nonetheless,
maybe there's something there.
What about the period from the 25th to the
4th? I don't know what the theory could be on excluding
that one, because what the defendant said on the 7th --
on September 13th, he said, "Judge, I don't want any
more time. I don't even want to file any motions."
MR. ROBERTS: On the 25th.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. On the 25th, he said
that. So what is the basis of excluding the 25th to the
4th?
MR. ROBERTS: As I was saying before, what
-- he did make a filing on the 25th, and the Court took
action in response to that filing on the 4th, by holding
a hearing at which he waived the motions as he indicated
that he was doing on the -- on the 25th. So --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the delay -- so
saying I'm not going to file any pretrial motions
results in a delay from a pretrial motion?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, in this particular
instance, Your Honor, he made a filing and then the
Court -- the Court held a hearing in response to that,
and actually engaged in a colloquy with the defendant,
asked the -- asked the defendant, "Do you understand
what you are giving up? Do you want to waive these
motions?" He said, "Yes, I want to do that," and the
Court ruled, then, on that on the 4th.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that a normal course
of practice? I've never quite heard of other --
MR. ROBERTS: I don't think it's a general
practice, Your Honor. It does seem to be typical in
this -- in this district, but I think that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But then the Court's
view a decision or statement that no motions are going
to be filed as a request for a waiver of that
obligation?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, it was in fact a waiver
notice, a notice of intent to waive, that the defendant
filed. Not just --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Intent to waive.
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I mean, it was framed as
a waiver, a waiver of pretrial motions. It's Docket
Entry 21. But I don't think it's -- you know, it's in
the record, but not in the -- in the JA.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I didn't see it as
a motion. It didn't move to waive. It said, "I waive."
MR. ROBERTS: That -- that's true, but the
Court didn't -- the Court held the hearing on the 4th.
And it engaged in this conversation with the defendant
and then made a decision on the 4th that the time was
waived, that the -- the waiver, not --
JUSTICE BREYER: So it's --
MR. ROBERTS: Not at the time it was filed.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what I understand.
You get the period from the -- the 25th to the 4th comes
under (D) or (H). It's a motion that is filed, and it's
under advisement.
MR. ROBERTS: I think that the --
JUSTICE BREYER: So it comes under (D) or
(H). Is that right?
MR. ROBERTS: It comes under -- it probably
comes under (h)(1), Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I don't mean little
(h)(1). I mean big (H). It's attributed to a period
during which any proceedings actually under any
advisement -- or maybe it comes under (D) -- a motion
not to file a motion is a motion.
MR. ROBERTS: I mean, it could come under
(D), Your Honor. It could come under (h)(1). I would
say it really comes under both -- best fits under (h)(1)
as analogous to a motion that's not exactly a motion.
But, you know, either way, the point is that
it was something that the Court required the Court
action, or at least as the Court had set the rules in
this proceeding required Court action, and then it did
ultimately did have Court action on the Court.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Would you repeat that just
so I have you: It comes under (h)(1) -- what sub?
MR. ROBERTS: I think just under -- I would
say, Your Honor, just under the general language of
(h)(1), because it's not strictly a pretrial motion, but
it's the equivalent of a pretrial motion.
But you could say that it falls under --
under (h)(1)(D), and think of it as a motion itself.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Did --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have any idea of
how many, if we rule against you, until we -- speaking
hypothetically, how many convictions would be at risk
for --
MR. ROBERTS: I couldn't say precisely, Your
Honor, but it is the rule that's been followed in eight
courts of appeals.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it's -- it's not
everybody who invokes a Speedy Trial Act violation
objection.
MR. ROBERTS: No. That's true. That's
true. I mean, I can't say that they are going to be --
and I would have to agree with -- with Petitioner's
counsel that, you know, that there are consequences in
whatever ruling that the Court -- that the Court makes
in a case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I would have been -- I
would have been interested in knowing the effects of
Zedner.
MR. ROBERTS: Yeah.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And how -- what kind of
burden it placed.
MR. ROBERTS: I'm sorry, I don't have any
precise -- precise information on that. But I think
that, you know, even apart from the transitional effects
that there are going to be on a going-forward basis,
sometimes judges are going -- would -- would grant
additional preparation time and neglect to make the
required finding.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's true of all
Speedy Trial Act actions by the district court. They
always run the risk of forgetting to make a finding.
That's why you have two attorneys, presumably --
MR. ROBERTS: That's right --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- to remind them.
MR. ROBERTS: And that would be perfectly
appropriate if findings under (h)(7) were necessary.
But section (h)(1) is designed to address frequently
recurring situations in which the ends of justice are
virtually always going to be served by delaying the
trial for the purpose. And that's exactly what we have
here.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I ask you about the
language of (h)(1)? Do you think it's -- do you think
it's proper to consider a period of delay that precedes
the filing of the motion? That is, a period of delay in
order to prepare the motion, as a delay resulting from a
proceeding that has not yet occurred?
MR. ROBERTS: No, we -- we agree with that,
Your Honor. That's why Petitioner is wrong in saying
that (D) addresses the delay we are talking about here
and precludes its recognition under -- under (h)(1).
The delay we are talking about here is not resulting
from the pretrial motion, it's resulting from the grant
of -- the order granting additional time to prepare for
the motion. And that, that is the related but different
proceeding and a different kind of delay related to
motions practice. So I would agree with Your Honor
that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The grant of the motion is
the proceeding?
MR. ROBERTS: That the order granting the
additional time of the proceeding --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is the proceeding.
MR. ROBERTS: -- and if the delay results
from that order and the order is ancillary to a listed
proceeding, which is the pretrial motions because it
facilitates that proceeding, because it provides for
adequate preparation, which enabled the motions to be
resolved favorably and accurately.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But what -- what
subsection does all this? I really -- I got lost in --
MR. ROBERTS: I'm sorry, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Because you agree, as I
understand it, it is not covered by (D).
MR. ROBERTS: Right.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And what subsection does
cover it?
MR. ROBERTS: It's (h)(1), the general
provision, which courts have used to exclude numerous --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But it's not governed by
any lettered subsection?
MR. ROBERTS: No. It's a -- another
proceeding that -- that is covered by the including but
not limited to language on --
JUSTICE STEVENS: But there is no period --
MR. ROBERTS: -- (h)(1).
JUSTICE STEVENS: -- no subsection talks
about another proceeding? That's just your gloss on the
statute; is that right?
MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think (h)(1) says any
period of delay resulting from other proceedings
concerning the defendant. That could be a period, and
it covers a whole range of proceedings that generate
delay. And then --
JUSTICE STEVENS: I see.
MR. ROBERTS: Then there is a list of
examples. And the examples are intended only to be
illustrative. And what's -- what's covered is in
addition to those examples, other proceedings that are
analogous or ancillary to them.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you say the order is a
proceeding for that purpose, the order granting the
extension of time?
MR. ROBERTS: That is the proceedings
beforehand, Your Honor. Yes. But the -- that's not
the -- you know, first of all, as I said, a proceeding
is a -- is an act done by the court or under the court's
authority, so in order to fit squarely within that.
Plus I would direct you to (h)(1)(F), which indicates
that orders can be proceedings here because it excludes
delay following an order of removal or an order
directing the transportation of the defendant.
And, so, I think that there's indication in
the examples themselves when orders are sometimes
proceedings.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But just one quick
question. It seems to me that everything described in
(7)(A) would fit your description of proceedings.
MR. ROBERTS: It -- there -- there would be
an order, so there would be a proceeding. But it
wouldn't be a proceeding that would be covered under
(h)(1) because it -- to be covered it has to be a
proceeding of the type that is listed here. It has to
be analogous to these proceedings or ancillary to them,
facilitating these proceedings in some way, Your Honor.
JUSTICE STEVENS: That's a tough argument.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Stancil, five minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MARK T. STANCIL
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. STANCIL: I would like to quickly
address what I hope to be just four points. The first
is the government's fundamental principle. The
fundamental tenet is that the specific treatment of
pretrial motions in subparagraph (D) suggests no
negative inference or limiting inference on the general
standard of (h)(1).
The fall on that is evident by looking at
subparagraph (h), which automatically excludes up to
30 days during which a matter is under advisement by the
district court. If the government's reasoning is
correct, subparagraph (h) just does not address or
contains -- or suggests no negative inference on whether
the 31st day of a matter being under advisement is
automatically excludable under (h)(1). That's why there
are settle -- in the statutory interpretation.
We take the general standard, first of all,
is it a proceeding? There is no pretrial motion
proceeding until the motion is filed.
Second, if you think there is any
uncertainty as to what a proceeding is, well, look at
how the enumerated subparagraphs that follow, what do
they describe. One specifically addresses pretrial
motions. It has a starting point and it has an end
point. That's the end of this case.
But even if you think you want to look
further. Well, is there any support in these enumerated
subparagraphs for the government's rule that you would
treat a defense request for additional time differently?
No. None of the enumerated subparagraphs distinguishes
between defense requests and government requests. None
distinguishes between routinely granted time or
specifically alloted time.
In fact, with respect to defense requests
specifically, it was not lost on Congress how to -- how
to treat government counsel and defense counsel
differently. In (h)(7)(C), which is about the end of
justice exclusion, it specifies that the government
cannot get an end of justice exclusion based on its
inability to exercise due diligence in obtaining a
witness or preparing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand -- I
don't understand the government to be argue -- to be
arguing that they are treated differently.
MR. STANCIL: Well, the government's rule I
think is --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They are saying whoever --
whoever asked for the extension of time in order to
prepare the motion gets it. And -- and it's the time
limit's suspended.
MR. STANCIL: That's not their position in
their brief, Your Honor. They say the defense requests
for additional time --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --
MR. STANCIL: They don't say anything about
government request.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- they made it very clear
here that they think it applies to both the defendant
and the government.
MR. STANCIL: If that's their position, it's
more unmoored from the text of subparagraph (D), because
then both types of requests -- so subparagraph -- pardon
me -- so (h)(1)'s general standard is expanded even
farther --
JUSTICE BREYER: You are right, (D) has a
special time limit built into it -- I mean, (h) or
whatever the number is now. It says not to exclude
30 days. Okay?
MR. STANCIL: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: None of the others do. So
I would say right there, Congress doesn't want the judge
to have it for more than 30 days. Congress doesn't say
a word in any of the others that says anything about
preparation time.
MR. STANCIL: Well, I disagree about
subparagraph (D) Your Honor. (D) says from point B
to --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I know. But there is
not an indication about preparation time. Their
argument is a literal argument under the statute. Is it
from other proceedings? Yes, we know that because of
(D), okay? Does it result from other proceedings? Yes,
because, in fact, the preparation time is a direct
result of the other proceedings as defined in (D).
Therefore, it is an ancillary matter related to other
proceedings that was caused by the other proceedings.
QED, their argument is literal and there is no policy
against it. That's what they said.
Now, as soon as you get to the last (h), you
would find a big policy against it. Called not
exceeding 30 days. Now, I take it that's roughly their
argument.
MR. STANCIL: But there is no --
JUSTICE BREYER: At least my interpretation
of it.
MR. STANCIL: There is no difference, Your
Honor, between not exceeding 30 days and from and to.
And I think this is -- this case -- it comes to that and
that alone, which is Congress specifically addressed
pretrial motions, any delay resulting from a pretrial
motion and it said from point A to point B. And even if
you had to look behind that, you would look at the
legislative history and the Senate Judiciary Committee
was asked a specific question by the government no less,
can we include preparation time, and they said no.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, is your
friend correct that the issue of the proper calculation
is not before us? So that the time I spent figuring
that out should be excluded from something?
(Laughter.)
MR. STANCIL: As the question was presented,
Your Honor, it was specific to preparation time and the
period -- and the period from -- I don't want to get the
dates wrong but, September 7th to October 4th. But I
would add that the government didn't raise this argument
below, either. Nor did the government suggest, as I
understand it, that the delay that's at issue here
results from the grant on September 7th of additional
time. Rather their argument as I have understood it and
understood it when reading their briefs is that the
delay -- the ancillary delay stems from the pretrial
motion, the time allotted for pretrial motions itself.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
that whether or not you think that type of delay is
excludable depends on what that type of delay is, which
requires some sense of how it's going to be calculated.
MR. STANCIL: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Does six days make a
difference to your case? If they lose six days, do you
win?
MR. STANCIL: I'm not sure, Your Honor, I
would have to plead ignorance the same.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
this case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:01 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
59:6 50:19 51:2 19:11 23:11 26:21 avoids 20:12
50:2 53:22 43:25 44:14 56:25 57:7,12 awful 31:20
57:19 52:15 53:14 arises 36:22 b 6:3 8:12,16,16
54:18 ancillary 27:8 arraignment 39:12 56:21
37:1 42:7 51:5 aside 33:4 back 5:19 6:4
adjournment answer 5:7 12:14 17:16 balances 26:13
18:23 adjudication answered 6:7 44:25 25:22
21:8 9:20 answering 22:7 asks 11:21 14:24 based 22:16
27:2 advance 20:25 anticipated 13:3 43:7 34:8,8 38:24
29:4 adversary 37:18 anyway 25:7 Assistant 1:17 55:9
34:9 37:25 28:6,15 assume 17:10 basic 29:3
41:2,4 adverse 25:12 apart 49:14 18:4 24:6 26:3 basis 3:13 21:15
49:20 advisement apologize 21:24 assuming 6:3 40:9 45:14
19:13 36:11 appeals 7:25 44:4 49:15
48:3,4,5 affect 41:17 APPEARAN... attorney 9:24 begins 4:16
37:10 agreement 56:3 attributable 7:7 believe 13:9
32:4,10 appropriate 6:2 authorized benefit 13:19
7:13 8:18 Alito 7:6,24 8:20 44:2 50:1 automatic 11:10 best 20:11 47:24
16:5 13:17 14:7 approve 32:6 15:3 big 47:18 57:10
18:16 19:2,6 argue 44:6 automatically Bloate 1:3 3:4
25:17 alloted 55:3 55:13 3:11 15:4,8 43:6
27:9 allotted 16:17 argued 33:5 16:11,12 20:5 book 19:21
41:7,9 58:17 44:13 21:1 25:25 BREYER 44:17
35:18 allow 4:1 34:2 arguing 13:18 27:1 35:20,25 45:13 47:6,8
38:2,8 allowed 12:5 55:14 38:17 41:16 47:13,17 56:10
39:2 28:14 argument 1:12 42:13 54:4,10 56:15,23 57:14
27:16,21 28:12 27:2 14:18 32:5 counts 17:18
55:22 29:18,24 30:3 committee 11:3 50:9 court 1:1,12 3:9
33:20 43:2 23:23 43:19 10:4,5,7,13,15
competency considering 15:24 19:13
circuits 9:4 complete 31:10 30:11 22:20 23:12,17
44:1 circumstance complex 25:19 contemplated 26:9,12,24
44:2 comply 17:1 8:15 29:12 30:2
58:2 clarify 5:24 9:12 24:17 25:1 context 10:8 32:25 34:1
11:6,12 19:21 22:25 conclusion 5:14 7:11,14,17,19 38:7 39:19,22
15:13 26:12,15 37:11 conduct 31:19 8:24,25 21:16 43:25 44:3
20:24 37:15 42:9 32:2 24:18,21 25:8 45:17 46:1,1,6
23:15 56:2 confess 33:12 40:2,6,8 47:2,2 48:2,2,3
25:19 clock 4:20,21 confined 8:6 continuances 48:4,5,5 49:4,4
33:8,13 5:1,9,13 12:2 Congress 3:17 42:20 49:20 52:22
36:4 12:13,15,19 5:12,16 8:14 continues 37:14 54:6
43:17 15:7 16:6,10 8:23 9:12,17 contrary 32:16 courts 7:20,25
54:20 16:13,16,18 10:24 12:7 contrast 17:18 8:11,17 9:16
58:24 17:6,14,15 13:3 15:2 conversation 12:4,18 13:10
18:16,19,20 16:19 17:20 47:3 13:14 15:10,12
29:5 23:21 25:16 20:1 21:18 48:17 22:13 24:2
21:15 colloquy 46:2 26:15 37:7,25 13:25 19:5,10 34:1 37:9 38:1
comes 10:4 congressional counsel 7:18 9:2 27:9 31:23
26:10,10 29:15 38:15 consequence 25:20 26:19 52:22
47:15,16,20,24 consequences 43:2,20 49:3 covered 20:12
26:19,23 commencing consider 8:17 count 28:4 29:9 covers 42:5 52:8
8:1,1,3 declared 11:8 50:21 51:4 diligence 14:20 Docket 46:21
19:17 declares 3:19 52:6,9 53:1 14:25 15:6 doing 15:2 38:8
30:23 default 15:19 57:20 58:12,16 25:21 55:10 45:20
37:1,5 17:18 18:11 58:16,19,20 direct 8:17 doubt 26:6
47:10,13 defendant 4:22 delaying 50:4 52:24 57:3 drafting 10:25
48:13 9:21 11:21 delays 3:12,17 directing 53:2 26:16
51:14 14:1,24 16:9 8:9,11 12:3 disagree 12:17 driving 24:25
56:6,10 22:1,13 23:11 14:23 23:23 17:3 32:11 due 7:15 14:20
57:2 25:14 27:5 24:9 25:4 37:17 39:25 14:25 15:6,22
31:2,18,19 27:14 33:14 56:20 16:12 25:21
9:5 11:14 35:15 38:10,25 41:5 discussed 35:11 55:10
27:17,23 42:3 44:19 deliberate 3:24 dismiss 6:18 7:1 D.C 1:8,15,18
32:15,15 45:9 46:2,3,17 5:11 7:3 15:25
43:5 47:3 52:7 53:2 demonstrate dismissal 14:4
30:7 13:19 38:3 deny 24:3 dispose 17:25,25 earlier 22:7 43:3
54:9 defendant's Department 19:24 early 12:1,19
25:20 depends 42:14 disposition 3:21 37:4 40:25
defense 4:8,10 58:20 5:14 19:3,22 42:23
18:4,7,8 4:10,17 5:4,7 describe 54:18 distinguishes effective 8:18
7:7 9:24 10:4 described 53:7 54:25 55:2 14:19
10:17 16:5 description 53:8 district 6:18,20 effectively 15:7
20:4 21:10 24:3 designed 50:2 6:21 7:2,3 8:17 18:17,25
22:2 38:15 54:24 detailed 39:17 9:16 10:13 effects 49:7,14
32:14,16 55:1,4,6,22 determination 12:4 14:9 eight 23:8 48:20
33:9,9 deferral 31:23 30:18 31:11 15:10,10,12,18 either 5:10 8:11
deferred 31:17 43:15 15:19 16:25 19:21 21:17
36:10 defined 3:18 determine 7:3 17:6 18:10,14 23:9 24:18,19
41:1 57:4 30:14 39:6 18:19,20 19:4 25:15 35:6,8
42:13 definition 10:11 determining 19:4,13,19 40:16 48:1
54:5 delay 10:22 29:9 20:5,7,19 21:4 58:11
57:11 14:25 21:16 difference 17:24 21:11,20 22:1 employed 36:3
58:23,24 25:24,24 27:4 18:17 41:23 24:2 25:23 enabled 51:8
29:1,3 28:14,20,24 different 15:22 38:1,3 40:22 encourage 12:10
14:11 excluded 3:11 32:12 16:10 22:2 follow 8:7 23:20
37:22 4:2 7:22 15:4 extension 11:16 28:10 35:6,13 54:17
50:3 20:15 22:4 11:17 12:16 35:16 45:11,22 followed 48:20
47:3 29:2,4,10 27:23,24 28:2 filed 10:11 27:23 forces 38:18
34:24 35:20 extensions 14:9 46:14,18 47:7 formal 10:12
42:23 43:23,24 extra 17:14 4:17 5:2,13 53:22
excludes 27:4,6 30:17,21 32:17 7:18 50:2
41:7 52:25 facilitates 27:12 50:10 16:4 53:23,24
50:5 exclusion 3:12 14:1 28:22 24:20 38:14
31:5,8 4:13,16 7:23 36:3,22 39:7 49:18,21 G 3:1 31:14
9:5,14 11:10 46:16 55:4 findings 12:11 gain 14:2
15:3 27:14 factor 5:19 21:17 26:11 14:2
52:12,12 41:6,6 42:2 14:17 39:12,15 40:1,6,9,10 3:22 29:2 42:2
53:4 44:15 55:8,9 39:20,23 40:10 50:1 46:9 48:9
exercise 14:20 fairly 24:7 42:8 first 3:16 10:9 56:8
exercising 25:21 falls 27:3 48:12 27:6 52:21 generate 52:8
27:14 expeditiously favor 9:17 12:14 five 16:25 17:7 12:9 13:5
41:5 20:3 22:9 23:4 18:15,15 53:18 23:19 34:13
58:20 explain 22:9 favorably 51:9 flexibility 19:19 35:24 44:6
28:22 explicitly 26:15 feel 38:4 flexible 12:5 19:23 20:4,5
31:5,6 express 5:16 figured 33:21 Florida 41:12 20:20 25:10,10
39:9 expressly 36:20 figuring 58:3 flowing 29:25 38:16,20,22,23
41:1 58:13 57:9 56:21 57:17 inference 36:22
granted 11:17 happen 18:25 58:7,22 59:1 54:1,1,8
41:12,13 15:5 21:11,16 happens 13:13 hypothetical 35:1 49:13
40:9 40:2,7 42:21 5:14 9:19 h)7 8:12 instances 19:7
granting 14:9,11 19:24 27:23,25 I insufficient
14:8,13 29:12,22 31:9 32:13,18 34:19 idea 23:1 48:15 21:13
19:3,18 50:19 51:1 35:8,11 36:6 ignorance 59:2 intended 52:12
52:17 36:10 37:13 ii 8:16,21 intending 43:1
28:14 grants 9:24 45:19 46:1 Illinois 41:13 intent 28:10
38:10 35:22 47:2 illustrates 17:4 34:18 46:17,19
42:17,20 grounds 6:19 hearings 9:6 illustrative interest 5:25 6:5
45:22 11:19 22:16 37:10,12 52:13 6:15 12:12,25
49:1,15 guess 11:7 23:9 held 6:8 11:17 imagine 9:23 13:7 14:1
50:4 33:15,23 40:18 22:14,15 35:11 implicitly 10:6 20:11 38:10,14
40:19 36:4,5 46:1 important 25:3 38:19 39:7
H Henderson inability 55:10 interests 12:24
32:1 7:21,23 8:1,1,3 history 57:23 30:17 57:25 interpret 7:21
11:4,20 11:18 14:21 Honor 4:7,14,25 42:6 51:23 interpretations
14:3,24 15:3 19:11 5:8 6:25 7:17 incompetence 37:9
23:6 20:6,12,15 8:5 9:7,11 10:1 31:6,12 interpreted
55:1 21:6,16 25:3 10:9,20 12:17 incompetent 43:14
56:1 26:8,13,16 13:24 14:16 31:2 introductory
57:24 27:6 30:12,23 15:25 16:23 incorrect 23:17 8:4
30:25 31:1,14 17:3 18:4 43:25 investigate 9:21
5:18 36:20 37:1 22:3,24 24:1 indicated 45:19 involved 12:10
9:17 16:4 39:10,16 41:6 31:7,23 33:3 indicates 52:24 42:16
23:10 42:1,20,24,24 33:19 36:20 indication 23:20 issue 8:7 14:3
53:23 47:10,14,16,18 37:21 38:9 24:1 53:3 20:12 32:25
55:15 47:18,23,24 40:19 41:3 56:24 34:1 41:22
50:1,2,8,16 45:25 46:10 22:13 58:12
25:8 51:18 52:1,5 47:16,23 48:9 individual 14:1 iv 8:12,16 15:7
32:23 52:24 53:12 48:20 50:14,22 21:7 38:5
38:8 54:2,4,7,10 51:12 52:20 individualized J
50:18,24 55:7 56:8,11 53:15 55:22 28:25 JA 46:23
13:5,6 29:18,24 30:3 43:17,20,21 57:7 mean 10:15
19:8 20:8 30:5,7,10,16 44:5 45:8 literally 13:13 22:23 25:14
21:5,5 30:24 31:4,13 46:22 48:1 little 14:2 35:25 35:1 46:20
22:1 32:11 33:4,15 49:3,14 52:21 47:17 47:17,17,18,22
26:4 33:20 34:13,25 56:23 57:1 local 15:13,24 49:1 56:11
38:13,16 35:14,24 36:16 knowing 49:7 16:8 17:13,13 means 5:19
37:4,17,22,24 18:20,24 21:25 11:13 12:22
38:12,14,20 L 22:4 meet 15:6
40:9,11 39:1,5,7,14,25 language 3:22 lockstep 41:22 mental 30:14,18
45:1,10 40:3,13,14,20 36:17 37:5,11 logic 9:16 31:6
41:14,16,20,23 37:14 48:9 long 6:16 13:14 mentally 31:2
25:6 44:17,24 45:13 late 6:4,6 17:9 24:15 minute 21:9
49:16 45:21 46:7,12 latest 6:14,17 look 10:24 31:14 minutes 53:18
47:8,13,17 lawyers 24:7 54:16,21 57:22 44:14
24:11,11 49:6,10,19,24 left 6:22 11:7 looked 9:3 moment 5:1
51:10,13,16,20 5:11 20:1 9:18 10:17 38:20 39:9
52:16 53:6,16 legitimately lose 32:20 33:9 motion 3:10,17
17:13 55:12,17,24 length 32:24 lost 5:17 51:11 4:4,17,17,18
56:2,10,15,23 33:3,24 34:3 55:5 5:4,5,7,9,15
4:1,12,15 58:23 59:3 lettered 51:21 31:20 9:19,21 10:11
5:3,6,21 justification let's 17:10 31:14 10:12 12:12
6:5,8 38:25 43:4 M 15:11 17:12,25
7:6 light 9:10 majority 8:7 18:1 20:14
8:20 9:2,8 K likewise 36:11 23:21 24:14 24:6 27:23
10:3,14 K 3:6 limit 3:24 16:2 making 12:11 28:23 30:18,21
12:9,12 KENNEDY 34:4 56:11 13:22 14:22 33:7,7 34:21
15:9,17,23 limitations 14:5 manner 23:13 34:21 35:1
15:9 16:20,24 17:22 22:8,18 37:19 23:14 36:6 37:2,6,12
16:20 18:6,9,13 37:21 MARK 1:15 2:3 41:12,13 42:11
17:22 24:16,25 25:6 limited 36:21 2:8 3:6 53:19 45:23 46:25
19:2 25:10 26:1,3,6 51:24 mathematical 47:10,20,21,21
20:7,11 34:25 35:14 limiting 54:1 17:23 47:25,25 48:10
21:9,19 kids 24:22 limit's 55:20 matter 1:11 48:11,13 50:10
22:6,19 kind 49:10 list 42:4 52:11 16:14 19:8,12 50:11,18,20,24
23:1,13 50:21 listed 27:7,11,15 23:16 24:5 54:13,14 55:19
24:16,25 know 19:17 23:5 36:21,23 42:7 29:2 54:5,9 57:21 58:17
26:1,3 24:9 25:24 51:5 53:13 57:5 59:6 motions 4:8,8,10
29:7 33:2 34:6 listen 39:6 matters 26:15 7:8,13,15 8:6
10:18 negotiations 34:11 7:6 9:10 17:1,5 practical 16:14
15:16,21 31:25 32:8 oral 1:11 2:2 3:6 19:8 28:1,9 practice 46:8,10
20:9 Neither 38:9 26:21 31:1,16 44:7,9 50:22
22:2 never 6:5 39:14orally 13:6 45:7 47:9,18 precedes 50:9
27:1,9 39:16 44:13 order 20:8,12 50:9,10 51:25 precise 6:10
46:8 29:12,13,21,22 52:6,7 58:8,8 13:10 49:13,13
29:6 new 22:22 29:25 30:1,1,9 periods 18:24 precisely 3:18
34:19 nine 23:9 31:9 35:5 33:14 48:19
non-moving 40:23,24 50:11 permission 35:2 precludes 50:16
36:1 35:23 50:19 51:1,5,5 permissive prejudice 7:4
38:3 normal 20:8,9 52:16,17,23 13:11 11:13,23 12:21
40:23 46:7 53:1,1,10 person 29:15 14:5
42:15,16 normally 42:10 55:18 personally preparation
Northern 41:11 orders 52:25 35:12 3:10,23 4:21
41:12 53:4 Petitioner 1:4 4:23 5:10,20
notice 34:18 ordinarily 12:1 1:16 2:4,9 3:7 8:13,15,19
51:6,8 46:17,17 16:17 34:18 35:6 10:24 11:4,7
54:19 number 23:16 original 10:23 42:20 44:13 12:5,23 13:20
58:17 56:12 32:15 43:4 50:14 53:20 14:19 18:11,16
O ought 11:22 34:2 29:6 34:9
objection 48:24 outweigh 12:25 42:18 49:2 37:15 43:19
28:2 33:8 44:8 PAGE 2:2 32:3,8,9 18:4 21:11,21
45:3 58:9 paper 35:10 plead 59:2 27:12 35:23
15:1 Oh 5:8 23:8 56:7 plus 18:16,17 41:8,10 43:16
okay 13:7 21:19 parity 42:25 52:24 44:22 50:11,19
10:5,7 56:13 57:2 20:8 44:25 9:13 26:1,12 preparing 10:20
21:11 once 29:6 32:4 particular 9:18 28:5 34:14 36:2 55:11
35:2 38:14 43:14,14 40:22 42:15 38:13 48:1 presented 58:6
42:10,13 ones 42:7 45:24 54:19,20 56:21 preserved 33:2
open-endedness 32:4,7 points 53:22 presumably
14:8 operate 41:4 pending 23:3 position 5:1,25 28:9 38:22
42:17 people 42:18 8:7 23:10,10 49:22
40:21 49:25 56:5 3:24 7:8,13,15
11:16 52:25 53:5,8 6:10 10:24 recorded 40:7 39:2
15:15,21 53:14,15 57:1 13:10 22:7 40:18 requires 58:21
17:12 57:2,4,6,6 27:17 33:24 recording 40:12 requiring 14:13
21:6 24:6 process 14:22 34:3 43:3 53:7 recurring 50:3 37:22
27:1,10 prompt 3:21 57:24 58:6 red 11:20 reserve 26:17
29:6 5:14 questions 35:24 redundant 31:5 reserved 44:7
34:19 proper 50:9 quick 53:6 refer 8:24 resolution 27:13
37:2 58:2 quickly 53:21 refers 8:21 resolved 51:9
41:7 proposal 11:3,5 quintessentially regard 19:20 respect 9:9
46:21 proposed 31:15 20:1 regarded 28:19 11:25 15:15
50:18 32:4,9 quite 12:3 13:13 reindict 22:13 55:4
53:25 prosecution 46:8 rejected 6:11 respectfully
57:20 31:17 11:5 20:18 39:25
58:16,17 prosecutor 4:5 R related 9:19 respecting 10:21
prosecutor's 4:2 raise 58:10 57:5 36:1,14
provides 51:7 37:5 26:18 35:23 37:8
22:18 32:3,9 44:16 7:17 58:15 7:2 43:16,18 45:18
37:19 51:19 ready 44:21 remand 6:9 34:1 46:1
20:10 public 14:7 38:19 42:25 remanded 7:1 41:10
37:21 38:10 45:5 47:24 remind 49:24 result 6:23 7:22
14:1 reason 15:5 repeat 48:6 29:3 57:2,4
10:6,10 50:5 52:17 17:12 24:8 29:20,20 38:19 28:24 30:9,13
pursuant 31:17 reasoned 36:8 46:14 54:24 31:1,8,14
27:11 pushed 32:19 reasoning 36:4 56:1 35:21 36:24
29:9,14 put 6:10 12:22 54:6 requested 11:16 37:6 42:2
13:1,11 19:21 reasons 10:9 21:15 38:2,9 43:10 50:11,17
48:4 26:11 27:3 requests 4:10 50:18 52:6
putting 14:21 rebuttal 2:7 24:3 55:1,1,4 57:20
15:3 26:9 33:4 26:18 53:19 55:22 56:7 results 32:22
39:8 recitation 14:14 required 14:22 33:13 45:23
p.m 1:13 3:2 recite 14:14 19:7 26:10 51:4 58:13
59:5 recognition 38:16 39:14,16 retrial 22:19
27:4,7,8,9 Q record 12:23 49:18 6:9
42:3 QED 57:7 13:2,12,23 requirement return 10:23
47:19 qualify 21:6 14:15 26:9,11 38:13 reversal 23:2
question 6:7,7 46:23 requirements reverse 9:25
52:1,5,11,19 37:25 45:16,22 58:13 23:1,13 37:17
roughly 57:11 14:18 19:17 15:13,21 16:2 48:15,22 49:6
24:3 routine 25:19 29:15,16 31:16 35:8 48:3 sounds 20:16
27:17 28:23 29:1 36:17 38:15 settle 54:11 21:6 31:20
31:3 42:11 43:18 39:20 40:5 seven 16:12 speaking 48:16
32:20 routinely 55:2 42:20 43:8 40:23 43:11 speaks 7:9 8:13
35:13 rule 4:9 8:5 44:20 52:5 seven-day 41:1 special 56:11
39:9 13:17 15:22,24 56:12,18,21 42:12 specific 27:17
44:12 16:4 17:2,13 SCALIA 36:16 ship 43:8 36:2 39:20,24
49:23 17:14 18:8,11 37:4 40:14 short 16:9 17:1 53:24 57:24
52:4 18:19,21,21,24 50:7,24 51:3 17:5,13 18:19 58:7
19:15 21:25 52:16 55:12,17 show 19:2 specifically 3:17
24:3,5,17 schedule 15:12 side 5:11 25:15 8:21,21 10:25
20:7,23 37:19 40:22,25 screen 25:3 sides 44:7 36:13,23 37:7
42:9,12,17,23 se 7:23 significant 39:11 41:24,25
48:16,20 54:23 second 34:14 13:25 54:18 55:3,5
55:15 35:18 54:15 similar 27:14 57:19
29:8,11 ruled 9:16 29:14 section 3:11 36:3 specified 7:4
46:6 27:3,6 35:20 simply 11:6,12 39:12
30:1,3,4 rules 6:18 15:14 36:19,19 37:1 25:21 specifies 14:17
16:8 20:2 41:6 42:1 50:2 situation 8:2 55:8
24:19 48:3 see 25:11 28:19 9:23 speedy 3:12 6:19
ruling 18:12 30:11 35:14 situations 14:10 6:19,21 10:8
33:4 23:4,18 25:11 46:24 52:10 39:22 50:3 11:14,23 12:2
25:13 49:4 seeking 30:21 six 22:12 58:23 12:2,20,21
34:14,17 run 4:21,22 Senate 11:1,2 58:24 15:7 16:7,14
36:19 12:13,15 16:9 57:23 small 13:19 17:6,14 18:18
38:7 16:12 17:8,15 send 6:4 23:15 18:20,23 20:13
39:4,11 20:10 49:21 sense 8:23 11:11 Solicitor 1:17 20:17 21:8
40:5,13 running 29:11 27:22 28:25 soon 57:9 22:16,21 27:2
41:3 34:15 35:25 36:9,12 sorry 4:13 8:3 34:9 41:2
runs 5:1 32:14 58:21 10:1 12:13 48:23 49:20
43:2,13 43:8 separate 44:18 16:23 33:19 spent 28:13,19
45:12,16 rushing 38:11 September 49:12 51:12 37:10 58:3
46:9 15:11 27:18,20 sort 12:20 spot 6:13
47:1 S 27:24 28:2,18 sorts 14:23 squarely 52:23
s 2:1 3:1 56:8 32:14 33:8 SOTOMAYOR Stancil 1:15 2:3
satisfy 12:11 34:18,23 43:6 5:21 9:2,8,15 2:8 3:5,6,8 4:7
saying 10:7 43:6,9,11,12 10:3,14 11:1 4:13,16,25 5:4
51:1,4 13:21 20:24 44:8,19,22,24 21:9,19,25 5:8 6:6,16,25
21:12 31:25 45:2,10 58:9 22:6,19,23 7:16 8:5 9:7,11
11:2 17:8,15 18:15 55:20 14:10 15:2 26:18,25 27:3
13:9,24 stopped 5:13 suspension 4:6 17:4,19,19,22 27:10,12,18,19
15:15,18 23:21 system 20:2 18:1,22,25 28:4,8,9,13,14
16:23 stops 5:10,13 systemic 24:17 19:25 20:10,21 28:19,22,24
18:3,7,10 25:16 20:22 21:3 29:1,2,4,5,11
19:5,10 strictly 48:10 T 22:17 23:15 29:12,15,21,22
21:2,14 strictness 26:14 T 1:15 2:1,1,3,8 24:5,5,14 29:23,24 30:17
22:3,10 sub 48:7 53:19 26:11 28:16 31:25 32:5,7
23:5 subject 3:12 table 11:8,8 30:20 31:7,21 32:12,17 33:13
24:24 15:14 23:3 take 5:24 6:1 32:3,16,21,23 33:16 34:7,9
26:2 submission 17:9 23:10 33:5,22 34:7 34:22,23 35:18
53:18 32:17 24:14,22 30:12 34:11 37:20 35:22 36:1,2,5
55:15 submissions 31:25 33:16 38:1 42:14,21 36:9,10,12,14
56:5 36:7 38:5,6 54:12 44:1,5,17,24 36:17,18,25
57:13 submitted 59:4 57:11 46:9,11,22 37:10,11,13,15
58:6,22 59:6 taken 23:10 47:12 48:8,13 38:2,9,11,22
subparagraph 34:11 36:11 49:13 50:8,8 38:23,24 40:15
54:2,12 53:25 54:4,7 17:10,24 29:19 54:15,21 55:16 42:10,19,22
56:6,7,21 talking 5:6 24:8 56:3 57:18 43:7,15,17,20
54:17,23,25 talks 52:2 thinks 43:25 44:15,15,21
51:11,16,21 tell 15:9 20:25 thought 44:7,9 49:17 50:19
22:21 substantive ten 23:9 41:13 three 3:14 17:11 54:24 55:2,3
36:20 suggest 11:9,21 terms 8:13 time 3:10,23 4:2 57:3,25 58:3,7
14:5 22:8 suggested 23:7 text 3:15 4:18,19 5:17,20 6:14 timeframe 16:9
37:18 35:25 12:8 56:6 6:17,20 7:7,7 timely 23:13,14
39:3,19 suggestion 5:18 Thank 26:19 7:13,13,21 times 15:13
56:25 suggests 14:3 53:17 59:3 8:15,18 9:2,9 time's 32:6
54:11 superfluous 30:17 42:18 11:4,7,12 12:5 told 44:20
41:14 supposition 23:5 28:6 38:1 42:5 17:5,16,24,25 49:14
Supreme 1:1,12 44:19 18:11,24 19:3 transportation
48:6,14 sure 16:20,24 think 4:23 6:12 19:8,18 20:11 53:2
21:23,24 26:7 7:16,18,19 20:20 21:11,12 treat 4:10 8:11
52:2,10 27:22 32:21 8:22,23 10:21 21:15,21 22:4 54:24 55:6
33:11 42:24 11:6,11,19,19 22:20 23:22 treated 4:8,24
suspended 12:7,18 13:2,9 25:16,16,17,24 55:14
7:18
8:9,25 3:4 wanted 25:4 58:9
11:14
38:1 2 31:16
7:25 22:14,15wants 16:10
15:7
17:6 25:4 warranted 38:4 32:14 33:8
18:18,20 unmoored 56:6 Washington 1:8 Y 2009 1:9
20:3,14 unreasonable 1:15,18 Yeah 33:19 49:9 21 15:20,22
21:8 11:6,9 wasn't 8:6 9:3 16:17 17:17,18
23:11 unreasonably 11:17 44:7
27:2,2 17:5 45:5
20:18 21:21 22:2
38:11 unrelated 11:19
40:3,5 40:25 46:22
48:23 unusual 7:16 43:13 45:2
21-day 18:21
50:5 use 7:10 8:8 48:1 53:15
week 17:7 24:9 44:22,24 45:7
vacation 24:22 weeks 17:10,11 1 3:16,22 4:9 45:20 47:9
31:14
36:20
23:24 varying 42:22 We've 39:17 30 19:12,23
39:12
25:22 view 6:2 24:3 whatsoever 15:5 36:10 54:5
42:1,24
49:22 25:12 46:13 wide 41:8 56:13,17 57:11
virtually 50:4 win 58:25 30-day 19:14
53:12
56:8
10:25
42:13
16:1
46:25 work 13:3 18:2 3289 22:11
1:13 3:2
45:19 47:5 works 15:10 32:14,16,19 4 28:2 30:25
21:3 21:7 28:10 31:1 33:8
46:3 47:8 32:14 46:14,16 wouldn't 7:10 39:13
45:4,10 4th 27:18,20,25
55:12,13 46:21,21 47:5 15:6 25:6 14 41:12 34:20 35:8,10
want 7:14 12:10 40:14,15 53:11 14th 43:9,12 44:8 45:3,8,15
9:1 13:12 38:15 43:3 written 31:17,18 16 18:16 47:2,4,9 58:9
18:12
18:18
2:9
1:9
3:13 6:8 7:8,9
8:8,12
14:21
26:8,13
39:10,16
50:1
55:7
27:18,20
43:6,11
45:2,4
58:9,13
16:15 17:19
20:4
18:19
41:1
18:18
